Two assays were conducted to investigate the changes of faba bean (Vicia faba L.) and azuki bean (Vigna angularis L.) phosphatases (phytase [Phy] and acid phosphatase [AcPh]) and the degradation of its substrates (inositol phosphate esters) during seed germination. The 1st assay was to establish the optimal germination conditions of faba bean and azuki bean to improve the endogenous phosphatases and increase the hydrolysis of phytate and, in the second assay, to determine the different lower phosphate esters of myo-inositol produced during the germination process. In the 1st assay, seeds were soaked for 12 and 24 h and germinated for 3 and 5 d with and without the addition of gibberellic acid (GA(3) ). In the second assay, seeds were soaked for 12 h and germinated for 1, 3, and 5 d with GA(3) . Phy (up to 3625 and 1340 U/kg) and AcPh (up to 9456 and 2740 U/g) activities, and inositol hexaphosphate (IP6) (8.23 and 7.46 mg/g), inositol pentaphosphate (IP5) (0.55 and 0.82 mg/g), and inositol tetraphosphate (IP4) (0.26 and 0.01 mg/g) were detected in ungerminated faba bean and azuki bean, respectively. The germination process caused a significant increase of Phy and AcPh activities in faba bean (up to 147% and 210%) and azuki bean (up to 211% and 596%) and a reduction in the phytate phosphorus content (up to 81% and 63%, respectively). Phytate phosphorus content was affected only by soaking time in the case of faba bean. Finally, during the course of germination, IP6 and IP5 were rapidly degraded in faba bean (88% and 39%) and azuki bean (55% and 56%), and IP4 was only a short-living intermediate, which was increased during hydrolysis and degraded to inositol triphosphate. In this manner we could obtain a low-phytate, endogenous phosphatase-rich ingredient for enhancing human nutrition.
Phytic acid (PA) or myo-inositol-1,2,3,4,5,6-hexakisphosphoric acid (IP6) can be hydrolyzed into inositol phosphates, such as inositol pentaphosphate (IP5), inositol tetraphosphate (IP4), inositol triphosphate (IP3) and possibly inositol di-and monophosphates (IP2 and IP1) by phytases (enzyme) during grains and seeds storage and fermentation. Chromatographic conditions of mobile phase, sample diluent, column and ionic par, for IP6 determination in defatted rice bran and purified PA from rice bran, were studied in this research. Linearity, repeatability, recovery, and limit of detection (LOD) and limit of quantification (LOQ) of the method were evaluated. The best resolution occurred with the use of both C18 columns (Shim-pack CLC-ODS and Novapak) at a 45 °C oven temperature and mobile phase A (32.50% methanol and 1.45% TBAH) and sample diluent da (32.50% methanol and 1.45% TBAH) and db (32.10% methanol and 1.20% TBAH). The R 2 of calibration curve was 0.9988, confirming the linearity in the PA range of 1.5 to 10 mg mL -1 (r = 0.9993; p < 0.0000). Intra-day repeatability presented relative standard deviations (RSD) of 3.43, 2.37 and 1.88% for 8, 5, and 3 mg mL -1 of PA concentrations, respectively. Inter-day intermediate precision RSD values were 0.93, 1.38, and 3.50% for each PA concentration, 8, 5, and 3 mg mL -1 respectively. RSD values were lower than 4% for both studies, demonstrating adequate repeatability and intermediate precision for the analytical method proposed. A 91% IP6 recovery was obtained and the LOD and LOQ were 0.05 and 0.15 mg mL -1 , respectively. The IP6 content in defatted rice bran and purified PA from rice bran samples were 3.90 and 420 mg 100 g -1 , respectively.
Abstract 1. 1. Several hematological parameters related to respiratory function of blood (blood volume, hemoglobin, hematocrit, erythrocyte number, P50, Bohr effect, organic phosphates) plus the myoglobin concentrations of different muscles were analyzed in starlings (Sturnus vulgaris L.) during their fall migration and winter stay in north-east Spain (Delta del Ebro, Tarragona). 2. 2. The classical hematological values were: Hc = 45.2–47.3%; Hb = 14.2–16.3 g%; erythrocyte number = 4.42–4.59 · 106; reticulocytes = 2.6–5.7%; MCM = 29.7–34.2 μμg; MCHC = 30.1–34.4%; MCV = 100.7–110.9 μm3. No trend seemed evident in these values in relation to the migratory process. 3. 3. The mean blood volume was 16.95 ± 2.5 ml/100 g b.w., and the erythrocyte volume was 6.95 ± 1.41 ml/100 gb.w. The P50 was 38.1 ± 4.56 mmHg and the Bohr effect— 0.472 ± 0.04; the oxygen capacity was 19.84 ± 3.35 ml O2 %. 4. 4. The intraerythrocytic phosphates levels were: inositol pentaphosphate (IPP) = 3.47–4.10 μmol/ml RBC; ATP = 5.57–5.90 μmol/ml RBC; and the other phosphates were 2.15 – 2.66 μmol/ml RBC. 5. 5. The myoglobin concentration ranged from 0.68 mg Mb/g wet muscle in the leg to 7.2 mg Mb/g in the heart or 9.5 mg Mb/g in the pectoral muscle. Significantly high values were found in the birds on their arrival from migration when compared to the specimens resting in the winter ground. 6. 6. The organic phosphates in the red blood cells presented uniform distributions in the different lots analyzed. However, the molar relationship between the phosphate compounds and the hemoglobin showed a tendency to increase during the winter stay.
The primary organic phosphate modifiers of haemoglobin function are DPG (2,3-diphosphoglycerate) in the toad Bufo marinus and ATP in the lizard Trachydosaurus rugosus. Myo-IP6 (myoinositol hexaphosphate) and myo-IPs (myo-inositol pentaphosphate) are more effective than ATP or DPG in reducing the oxygen affinities of the haemoglobins of B. marinus, T. rugosus and man, while ATP and DPG are about equally effective. Competition experiments indicate that ATP, DPG and myo-IP6 bind to the same site or sites on the haemoglobins of each of the species. These findings, and those of others, are interpreted as evidence that the evolution of an organic phosphate binding site on the haemoglobin of an ancient vertebrate pre-adapted haemoglobin for interaction with a set of organic phosphates having certain structural features in common.
The primary organic phosphate modifiers of haemoglobin function are DPG (2,3-diphosphoglycerate) in the toad Bufo marinus and ATP in the lizard Trachydosaurus rugosus. Myo-IP6 (myoinositol hexaphosphate) and myo-IPs (myo-inositol pentaphosphate) are more effective than ATP or DPG in reducing the oxygen affinities of the haemoglobins of B. marinus, T. rugosus and man, while ATP and DPG are about equally effective. Competition experiments indicate that ATP, DPG and myo-IP6 bind to the same site or sites on the haemoglobins of each of the species. These findings, and those of others, are interpreted as evidence that the evolution of an organic phosphate binding site on the haemoglobin of an ancient vertebrate pre-adapted haemoglobin for interaction with a set of organic phosphates having certain structural features in common.
The functional properties of haemoglobins from most classes of vertebrates have been shown to be modified by certain organic phosphates of the red blood cell cytoplasm* (Benesch et al. 1968; Johnson and Tate 1969; Gillen and Riggs 1971; Wood 1971; Misson and Freeman 1972; Anderson et al. 1973; Larkin 1973; Taketa and Nickerson 1973; Vandecasserie et al. 1973; Geoghegan and Poluhowich 1974) . The organic phosphates of the red blood cell cytoplasm so far shown to be modifiers of haemoglobin function are ADP, ATP, GTP, DPG (2,3-diphosphoglycerate), and myo-IP 5 (myo-inositol pentaphosphate). These organic phosphates act on human haemoglobin by binding preferentially to the quaternary deoxy form in the central cavity between the f3 subunits. Thus they place additional constraints on either, or both, the quaternary deoxy form and the deoxy conformation of the subunits, and thereby lower the overall affinity of haemoglobin for oxygen (Perutz 1970a (Perutz , 1970b Arnone 1972; Janssen and De Bruin 1973; Arnone and Perutz 1974) .
Erythrocytes play a key role in human and vertebrate metabolism. Tissue O2 supply is regulated by both hemoglobin (Hb)-O2 affinity and erythrocyte rheology, a key determinant of tissue perfusion. Oxygenation-deoxygenation transitions of Hb may lead to re-organization of the cytoskeleton and signalling pathways activation/deactivation in an O2-dependent manner. Deoxygenated Hb binds to the cytoplasmic domain of the anion exchanger band 3, which is anchored to the cytoskeleton, and is considered a major mechanism underlying the oxygenation-dependence of several erythrocyte functions. This work discusses the multiple modes of Hb-cytoskeleton interactions. In addition, it reviews the effects of Mg2+, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, NO, shear stress and Ca2+, all factors accompanying the oxygenation-deoxygenation cycle in circulating red cells. Due to the extensive literature on the subject, the data discussed here, pertain mainly to human erythrocytes whose O2 affinity is modulated by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, ectothermic vertebrate erythrocytes that use ATP, and to bird erythrocytes that use inositol pentaphosphate.
Limited data are available on the content of inositol phosphates in feed ingredients. The doubtfulness over the identity and literature values of the inositol hexaphosphate (phytate) analysed in feed ingredients by the classical iron precipitation method prompted the analysis for inositol phosphates in some feed ingredients using a modified high-performance liquid chromatography method. The inositol phosphates analysed were inositol triphosphate (IP3), inositol tetraphosphate (IP4), inositol pentaphosphate (IP5) and inositol hexaphosphate (IP6). At least 97% of the inositol phosphates in grains occurred as IP6 and the remainder as IP5. In milled products the relative percentage of IP5 was higher (up to 14·5% in wheat bran) but the overall IP6 relative percentage was still high (more than 82%). IP3 and IP4 were not present in grains, and their amounts were very low when present in their milling or processed fractions. The absolute IP6 content was highest in rice bran and wheat bran at 68·31 and 47·63 g kg−1, respectively. The results indicate that processed plant products may contain hydrolysis products of IP5 and IP6. These products contain greater percentages of IP3, IP4 and IP5 than in grains or milling products. © 1998 SCI.
In oxygen affinity characteristics bird blood appears to have several features that distinguish it from mammalian blood. For domesticated species at least the range of oxygen half saturation values is extremely wide. A difference in the shape of the oxygen dissociation curve has been recorded by several authors with an increase in sigmoidocity with increasing oxygen saturation. There is evidence that the oxygen affinity determining organic phosphate of bird red blood cells inositol pentaphosphate (IP5) is relatively metabolically inert. This suggests that modulation of blood oxygen affinity is primarily achieved by altering the IP5 hemoglobin interaction rather than varying IP5 levels per se . In contrast to mammals carbon dioxide has no direct effect on whole blood oxygen affinity for some bird species (hen chick goose) or it may cause the oxygen affinity to increase (pigeon flamingo). Carbon dioxide is a blood oxygen affinity modulator of some flexibility its effect in both direction and magnitude being dependent on the hemoglobin type red cell pH and organic phosphate levels. The physiological significance of these distinguishing features is discussed.
Genotypes of cereal grains, including winter barley (n = 21), maize (n = 27), oats (n = 14), winter rye (n = 22), winter triticale (n = 21) and winter wheat (n = 29), were assayed for their chemical composition and physical characteristics as part of the collaborative research project referred to as GrainUp. Genotypes of one grain species were grown on the same site, except maize. In general, concentrations of proximate nutrients were not largely different from feed tables. The coefficient of variation (CV) for the ether extract concentration of maize was high because the data pool comprised speciality maize bred for its high oil content. A subset of 8 barley, 20 rye, 20 triticale and 20 wheat samples was analysed to differ significantly in several carbohydrate fractions. Gross energy concentration of cereal grains could be predicted from proximate nutrient concentration with good accuracy. The mean lysine concentration of protein was the highest in oats (4.2 g/16 g N) and the lowest in wheat (2.7 g/16 g N). Significant differences were also detected in the concentrations of macro elements as well as iron, manganese, zinc and copper. Concentrations of arsenic, cadmium and lead were below the limit of detection. The concentration of lower inositol phosphates was low, but some inositol pentaphosphates were detected in all grains. In barley, relatively high inositol tetraphosphate concentration also was found. Intrinsic phytase activity was the highest in rye, followed by triticale, wheat, barley and maize, and it was not detectable in oats. Substantial differences were seen in the thousand seed weight, test weight, falling number and extract viscoelasticity characteristics. The study is a comprehensive overview of the composition of different cereal grain genotypes when grown on the same location. The relevance of the variation in composition for digestibility in different animal species will be subject of other communications.
myo-Inositol-1-phosphatase has been purified to homogeneity from Lilium longiflorum pollen using an alternative procedure which includes pH change and phenyl Sepharose column chromatography. Sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoretic analysis shows that the enzyme is a dimer (subunit molecular weight, 29,000 daltons). The enzyme is stable at low pH values and is inactivated only below pH 3.0. In addition to 1l-and 1d-myo-inositol-1-phosphate, it shows high specificity for 1l-chiro-inositol-3-phosphate. As observed earlier with other primary phosphate esters, d-glucitol-6-phosphate and d-mannitol-6-phosphate are hydrolyzed very slowly. No activity is observed with inorganic pyrophosphate or myo-inositol pentaphosphate as substrate. The enzyme is inhibited by fluoride, sulfate, molybdate, and thiol-directed reagents. Partial protection against N-ethylmaleimide inhibition by substrate and Mg2+ together suggests sulfhydryl involvement at the active site.
Barley is an important source of dietary minerals, but it also contains myo-inositol hexakisphosphate (InsP6) that lowers their absorption. This study evaluated the effects of increasing concentrations (0.5, 1, and 5%, vol/vol) of lactic acid (LA), without or with an additional thermal treatment at 55°C (LA-H), on InsP6 hydrolysis, formation of lower phosphorylated myo-inositol phosphates, and changes in chemical composition of barley grain. Increasing LA concentrations and thermal treatment linearly reduced (P<0.001) InsP6-phosphate (InsP6-P) by 0.5 to 1 g compared to the native barley. In particular, treating barley with 5% LA-H was the most efficient treatment to reduce the concentrations of InsP6-P, and stimulate the formation of lower phosphorylated myo-inositol phosphates such as myo-inositol tetraphosphate (InsP4) and myo-inositol pentaphosphates (InsP5). Also, LA and thermal treatment changed the abundance of InsP4 and InsP5 isomers with Ins(1,2,5,6)P4 and Ins(1,2,3,4,5)P5 as the dominating isomers with 5% LA, 1% LA-H and 5% LA-H treatment of barley, resembling to profiles found when microbial 6-phytase is applied. Treating barley with LA at room temperature (22°C) increased the concentration of resistant starch and dietary fiber but lowered those of total starch and crude ash. Interestingly, total phosphorus (P) was only reduced (P<0.05) in barley treated with LA-H but not after processing of barley with LA at room temperature. In conclusion, LA and LA-H treatment may be effective processing techniques to reduce InsP6 in cereals used in animal feeding with the highest degradation of InsP6 at 5% LA-H. Further in vivo studies are warranted to determine the actual intestinal P availability and to assess the impact of changes in nutrient composition of LA treated barley on animal performance.
An high-performance liquid chromatography method for determining inositol phosphate fractions was adapted to legumes. The validity of the method was assessed by estimating the following analytical parameters: linearity (linear response between 125 and 5000 μ g inositol hexaphosphate (IP6)/ml); instrumental precision and method precision (relative standard deviation, %) were 1.9% (IP6) for instrumental, and 2.5% (IP6) and 8.2% (IP5) for method precision. An accuracy was estimated by percentage recovery (72 ± 3%). The application of this method to raw, conventional, microwave-cooked and ready-to-eat beans, chickpeas and lentils gave IP 6 contents ranging from 0.63 g/100 g dry matter in ready-to-eat lentils to 1.87 g/100 g dry matter in raw beans. The IP6 content was reduced by all the cooking procedures, while the relative percentage of inositol pentaphosphate increased in all the legumes studied, and reached the maximum of 31% (expressed in relation to dry matter) in ready-to-eat beans.
Barley is an important source of dietary minerals, but it also contains myo-inositol hexakisphosphate (InsP 6 ) that lowers their absorption. This study evaluated the effects of increasing concentrations (0.5, 1, and 5%, vol/vol) of lactic acid (LA), without or with an additional thermal treatment at 55uC (LA-H), on InsP 6 hydrolysis, formation of lower phosphorylated myo-inositol phosphates, and changes in chemical composition of barley grain. Increasing LA concentrations and thermal treatment linearly reduced (P,0.001) InsP 6 -phosphate (InsP 6 -P) by 0.5 to 1 g compared to the native barley. In particular, treating barley with 5% LA-H was the most efficient treatment to reduce the concentrations of InsP 6 -P, and stimulate the formation of lower phosphorylated myo-inositol phosphates such as myo-inositol tetraphosphate (InsP 4 ) and myo-inositol pentaphosphates (InsP 5 ). Also, LA and thermal treatment changed the abundance of InsP 4 and InsP 5 isomers with Ins(1,2,5,6)P 4 and Ins(1,2,3,4,5)P 5 as the dominating isomers with 5% LA, 1% LA-H and 5% LA-H treatment of barley, resembling to profiles found when microbial 6-phytase is applied. Treating barley with LA at room temperature (22uC) increased the concentration of resistant starch and dietary fiber but lowered those of total starch and crude ash. Interestingly, total phosphorus (P) was only reduced (P,0.05) in barley treated with LA-H but not after processing of barley with LA at room temperature. In conclusion, LA and LA-H treatment may be effective processing techniques to reduce InsP 6 in cereals used in animal feeding with the highest degradation of InsP 6 at 5% LA-H. Further in vivo studies are warranted to determine the actual intestinal P availability and to assess the impact of changes in nutrient composition of LA treated barley on animal performance. 
Barley is an important cereal crop used for livestock feeding and human consumption. It contains relatively large amounts of starch, protein, dietary fiber, and minerals which make this cereal a highly valuable ingredient of the diet [1] . It represents an important source of phosphorus (P), with total P content exceeding 4 g per kg dry matter (DM). However, the availability of P for non-ruminants in barley, like in other cereals and legumes, is low because the major part of P is stored in form of myo-inositol hexakisphosphate (InsP 6 ) [2] , and its salts, also called phytate, serving as a P source for germination [3] . Myo-inositol hexakisphosphate is considered an antinutritional factor due to its low digestibility in monogastric animals but also due to its ability to build mineral complexes which inhibit the absorption of cations (e.g., Ca 2+ , Fe 2+ and Zn 2+ ) and protein in the gastrointestinal tract [4, 5] . Endogenous cereal phytases that catalyse the hydrolysis of InsP 6 to inorganic P and lower myo-inositol phosphates (InsP), most importantly myo-inositol pentaphosphates (InsP 5 ), myo-inositol tetraphosphates (InsP 4 ), and myo-inositol triphosphates (InsP 3 ) [6] , during germination can be activated by luminal conditions (i.e., pH) in the gastrointestinal tract, rendering a certain amount of P available for the host [7] . Compared with other cereals such as rye and wheat, barley grain possesses lower endogenous phytase activity [2] , emphasizing the necessity to treat barley grain to improve intestinal P availability.
Of the various species, birds need high energy which is fulfilled with the increased supply of oxygen through metabolic pathways (Perutz 1983; Weber 2007) . The respiratory system of avian species differ from the mammals and a number of investigations showed that oxygen affinity of avian species is higher than the mammals (Faraci 1991; Liang et al. 2001a Liang et al. , 2001b . However, the hemoglobin from birds is functionally similar to mammalians and regulated by inositol pentaphosphate (IPP) in place of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) as an allosteric effector (Lenfant et al. 1969; Torrance and Bartlett 1970) . Further studies on the hemoglobin structures show the altered oxygen affinity upon amino acid substitutions at heme-protein contacts and the inter-subunit contacts which orchestrates the oxy and deoxy transition states of the tetramer (Jessen et al. 1991; Vallone et al. 1996; Thom et al. 2013) . It has been shown that the waterfowl species, the bar-headed goose is characterized by a remarkably higher Hb-O 2 affinity than greylag goose (Petschow et al. 1977; Rollema and Bauer 1979) , because of the Pro α119(H2) → Ala substitution which disrupts an important intradimer van der Waals contact (Perutz 1983 ).
(1) 2,3-Diphosphoglyceric acid (2,3-DPG) is present in erythrocytes (RBC) of the 37-day ostrich embryo at a concentration of 3.7 μmole/ml RBC, representing 23.5% of the cell phosphate. (2) Inositol tetraphosphate (inositol-P4) is absent in red cells of the 37-day embryo, appears in the RBC about 63 days after hatch, and thereafter gradually accumulates to a level of 2.8 μmole/ml RBC in the adult bird, representing 30–35% of the cell phosphate. (3) Inositol pentaphosphate (inositol-P5) is present in the erythrocytes of the 37-day embryo at a concentration of 0.8 μmole/ml RBC, reaches a peak level of 2.9 μmole/ml RBC by Day 63 after hatch, and thereafter declines to a level of 1.1 μmole/ml RBC in the adult bird. (4) The crossover time where the molar concentrations of inositol-P5 and inositol-P4 are equal in the erythrocyte appears to be about 150 days after hatch. (5) The p50 of whole blood from the 37-day ostrich embryo, 5-day ostrich chick, and adult ostrich was 15.4, 31.8, and 24.9 Torr. The p50 of whole blood immediately after hatch correlates best with an abrupt rise in ATP concentration but after 54 days posthatch correlates best with the appearance of increasing concentrations of inositol-P4 and the decrease in concentrations of ATP and inositol-P5. (6) The appearance of inositol-P4 in the cells could be an adaptive mechanism for regulating oxygen supply by switching to a modulator which maintains a higher oxygen affinity than would a predominance of inositol-P5.
Inositol pentaphosphate (IP5) has long been characteristic of avian erythrocytes. We now report that this compound is also present in the red cells of two species of elasmobranch fishes, Squalus acanthias (spiny dogfish) and Narcacion nobiliana (torpedo ray). The mean concentration of I5 is 0.36 and 0.24 micromoles per ml of red cells respectively. ATP is the major organic phosphate in both fishes. 2.3-diphosphoglycerate is absent and GTP levels correspond approximately to the levels of I5.
Catharacta maccormicki blood samples were collected in the winter (October) and in the summer (February) in order to study the intraerythrocytic organic phosphates, hemoglobin (Hb) electrophoretic patterns, oxygen blood equilibrium and stripped Hbs, as well as the effect of 2,3-biphosphoglycerate (BPG) and inositol hexaphosphate (IHP) on oxygen affinity. All the samples (five from the winter and five from the summer) showed the same electrophoretic pattern: one minor fast component and one major slow one. No differences in oxygen affinity and Bohr effect in the samples collected in the winter and in the summer were found. Oxygen affinity was higher in the stripped Hb than in the blood. BPG seemed to have no effect on the functional properties of skua Hb while IHP does. No BPG was found in any sample. Both inositol pentaphosphate (IP5) and IHP were found in all the samples. The IP5/IHP ratio in the winter samples was 3.0 while in summer 3.5. Adenosine diphosphate (ADP) was found in samples from both the seasons. Adenosine monophosphate (AMP) and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) were present only in the summer samples while guanosine triphosphate (GTP) was found in the winter samples. Since IP5 and IHP are very powerful HB allosteric effectors, ATP and GTP might function as other protein modulators.
Bohr factors, φ=Δ logPO2/Δ pH, were measured in chicken hemoglobin (Hb) solutions at various levels of O2 saturation in the absence and the presence of inositol hexaphosphate (IHP). pH changes were induced either by changingPCO2at constant base excess near zero (CO2 Bohr factor, {ie135-1}) or by addition of fixed acid or base at constantPCO2(fixed acid Bohr factor, {ie135-2}). In the presence of IHP in a concentration of about 1.2 mol per mol Hb tetramer the two Bohr factors did not differ, the mean value being −0.61 (pH range, 7.1 to 7.6), independent of O2 saturation (SO2) between 10 and 90%. Removal of IHP significantly decreased {ie135-3} to −0.25) pH range, 7.0 to 7.6), independent ofSO2, whereas the reduction in {ie135-4} was much less pronounced. Thus {ie135-5}, which showed a decrease with increasingSO2, exceeded {ie135-6} at all levels ofSO2. The data show that chicken hemoglobin is capable of binding CO2 as oxygen-linked carbamate. But, at about equimolar concentrations of IHP and the tetrameric hemoglobin, oxylabile carbamate formation is abolished. It is suggested that this interaction between CO2 and the organic phosphate compound accounts for the lack of a difference between the two Bohr factors in avian whole blood (cf. Meyer et al., 1978) where inositol pentaphosphate is present at about the same concentration as tetrameric hemoglobin.
The primary structures of the alpha- and beta-chains of the main component of Bar-headed Goose (Anser indicus) are given. By homologous comparison with the hemoglobin of the Grey-Lag Goose (Anser anser) 3 differences were found in the alpha-chains, 1 difference in the beta-chains. In position alpha 119 H2Ala and beta 125 H3Asp alpha 1 beta 2-contact points are changed. The mutation alpha 63 E12Val brings a drastic change in tertiary structure of the alpha-chains of Bar-headed Goose: the helices E and B are moved apart by 1.5 A as there is no room for the larger side chain. This is probably the reason for a slightly higher intrinsic oxygen affinity of Bar-headed Goose hemoglobin. The bindings of inositol pentaphosphate on hemoglobin are identical in Grey-Lag Goose and Bar-headed Goose (contact points are not mutated). The reason for the increased difference in oxygen affinity by binding of inositol pentaphosphate is probably caused by two mutations in alpha 1 beta 2-contact points. It suggests that these two mutations are the reason for a different interaction between alpha- and beta-chains under the influence of inositol pentaphosphate by Grey-Lag and Bar-headed Goose hemoglobins. The difference in the primary structure of the Grey-Lag and Bar-headed Goose hemoglobins suggests that the Bar-headed Goose is not the genus of anser. Unfinished experiments (about 80% of the sequences) of White-fronted Goose (Anser albifrons a.) and Snow Goose (Anser caerulescens c.) show no exchanges with Grey-Lag Goose hemoglobin. The Canada Goose (Branta canadensis), however, which belongs to the genus Branta, has a number of substitutions similar to the Bar-headed Goose hemoglobin. These changes in primary structure suggest that Grey-Lag Goose and Bar-headed Goose are separated by a period of 9-15 Million years. This would support the hypothesis that the two species of goose became geographically separated by the elevation of the Himalayas.
Abstract Free myoinositol tetraphosphates, myoinositol pentaphosphate and myoinositol hexaphosphate were detected in mature cotton embryos. Three major isomers of the tetraphosphate were isolated by ion exchange chromatography followed by paper electrophoresis (80 V /cm). No free myoinositol monophosphate, myoinositol diphosphate or myoinositol triphosphate was detected. However, these were found bound to a lipid, presumably as menu-, di- and triphosphoinositides. No evidence was found for the presence of lipid bound higher myoinositol phosphates.
Globins or their genes—that presumably evolved from a common ancestral molecules—appear to occur in all organisms and tissues, and exhibit a diversity of quaternary structures and a large array of functions besides transporting and storing oxygen (Burmester et al., 2000, 2002; Trent and Hargrove, 2002; Weber and Vinogradov, 2001). In contrast to the intensively-studied interactions of hemoglobin (Hb) with protons (the Bohr effect), inorganic anions like chloride, and red cell organic phosphates (2,3 diphosphoglycerate (DPG) in mammals, inositol pentaphosphate (IPP) in birds and ATP and guanosine triphosphate (GTP) in ectothermic vertebrates) little is known about Hb’s reactions with other cytosolic and protoplasmic factors and their adaptive significance. This communication focuses on the reactions with water molecules (hydration) and the red cell membrane protein, band 3. Changes in water activity exert relatively small effects on the O2 binding affinities of the high-molecular-weight, extracellular, invertebrate O2 binding proteins, indicating small O2-linked changes in their water accessible surfaces (Hundahl et al., 2003b). In contrast, the solvation effects observed in fish Hbs (Hundahl et al., 2003a) are similar to those observed in human Hb (Colombo et al., 1992). In humans the N-terminal, cytoplasmic domains of the erythrocyte membrane protein band 3 (cdB3) bind at the organic phosphate site between the two beta chains of deoxyHb, decreasing Hb–O2 affinity (Walder et al., 1984). Given that band 3 mediates transmembrane anion (HCO3 / Cl) exchange, and that cdB3 binds Hb in competition with glycolytic enzymes (such as aldolase, phosphofructokinase, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase and lactate dehydrogenase) that govern the metabolic pathways in the red cells, it follows that Hb may function as a tranducer (Giardina et al., 1995) that regulates red cell metabolism and ion exchange in an oxygenation dependent manner. Curiously, however, peptides corresponding to trout cdB3 undergo oxygenation-linked binding to human Hb but exert no effect on the O2 affinity of trout isoHbs (Jensen et al., 1998). To investigate cd-B3/Hb interactions in vitro and discern their possible in vivo regulatory significance in humans and other vertebrates, we synthesized 10-mer peptides corresponding to N-termini of cd-B3 from trout, chickens and
The majority of phosphorous in plant seed, especially cereal grains and legumes, is myoinositol hexaphosphate (phytate or IP6) (Rosa et al., 1999). Structure of IP6 is shown in Figure 1. Figure 2 shows distribution of IP6 in some plant foods. Unrefined cereals and soybean products contain high levels of IP6. Rice bran contains IP6 more than 6,000 mg/100 g of dry matter. IP6 has a strong capability to chelate multivalent metal ions, particularly zinc, calcium, and iron ions, which results in the formation of highly insoluble salts (Nolan et al., 1987; Hotz et al., 2001). The IP6 can be hydrolyzed by enzyme (phytase) and converted to lower myo-inositol phosphates; from inositol pentaphosphate (IP5) to inositol monophosphate (IP1) and myo-inositol. It has been demonstrated that the metal complexes with IP1−IP4 are more soluble than those with IP5 and IP6 (Sandberg et al., 1989). Animal experiments have demonstrated that the ingestion of the meal that contains more than 1% IP6 decreases intestinal absorption of metal ions and induces the metal ion deficiency (Hirabayashi et al., 1998; Grases et al., 2001). In some communities, unrefined cereals are still main ingredients for the diet. In addition, the unrefined grains of rice, wheat, rye, etc., are richer in various minerals, dietary fiber, vitamins, and other bioactive components than refined ones. Therefore, these unrefined cereals are used as food ingredients for bread,
The majority of phosphorous in plant seed, especially cereal grains and legumes, is myoinositol hexaphosphate (phytate or IP 6 ) (Rosa et al., 1999) . Structure of IP 6 is shown in Figure  1 . Figure 2 shows distribution of IP 6 in some plant foods. Unrefined cereals and soybean products contain high levels of IP 6 . Rice bran contains IP 6 more than 6,000 mg/100 g of dry matter. IP 6 has a strong capability to chelate multivalent metal ions, particularly zinc, calcium, and iron ions, which results in the formation of highly insoluble salts (Nolan et al., 1987; Hotz et al., 2001 ). The IP 6 can be hydrolyzed by enzyme (phytase) and converted to lower myo-inositol phosphates; from inositol pentaphosphate (IP 5 ) to inositol monophosphate (IP 1 ) and myo-inositol. It has been demonstrated that the metal complexes with IP 1 −IP 4 are more soluble than those with IP 5 and IP 6 (Sandberg et al., 1989) . Animal experiments have demonstrated that the ingestion of the meal that contains more than 1% IP 6 decreases intestinal absorption of metal ions and induces the metal ion deficiency (Hirabayashi et al., 1998; Grases et al., 2001) . In some communities, unrefined cereals are still main ingredients for the diet. In addition, the unrefined grains of rice, wheat, rye, etc., are richer in various minerals, dietary fiber, vitamins, and other bioactive components than refined ones. Therefore, these unrefined cereals are used as food ingredients for bread, Fig. 1 . Structure of phytic acid (IP 6 ) www.intechopen.com breakfast cereals and so on due to their high health-promoting activities (Fukui et al., 1997; Haros et al., 2001; Lopez et al., 2001; Porres et al., 2001) . In addition to the unrefined cereals, legumes, especially soybean have long history as food ingredient. Recently, soy flour, soy protein isolate, its protease digest, etc. have been formulated and used as protein source for infant formulae, sports drinks, enteral nutrients and also diets for animal, poultry, and fish. However, as mentioned above, these products are also rich in IP 6 . Then, nutritional disturbances in the absorption of iron and zinc may occur by ingestion of IP 6 -rich foods (Shaw et al., 1995; Sandberg et al., 1996; Minihane et al., 2002 Rosa et al. 1999 . Natto; steamed soybean fermented with Baccillus subtillis. Salted natto; steamed soybean fermented with Aspergillus oryzae and further fermented with wild yeast and lactic acid bacteria in the presence of salt (more than 5%).
In order to rapidly reduce the content of inositol tri-hexaphosphates in pea flour by action of the endogenous phytase, raw materials as well as incubation conditions have been evaluated. The phytate (inositol hexaphosphate) content was analysed in 27 pea varieties; the influence of storage time and the difference in phytate content between the germ and the cotyledon were determined. Furthermore, degradation of inositol phosphates by the endogenous phytase enzyme was studied in pea flour, germ and cotyledon. To find the maximum phytate degradation, the effects of temperature and pH during pea flour incubation were investigated. The most efficient phytate degradation in pea flour incubation was achieved at pH 7.5 and 45 degreesC. At this condition an almost complete degradation of phytate and a 66% reduction in the sum of inositol hexa-, penta-, tetra- and triphosphates were reached in 10h. The storage time of pea seeds or removal of the germ did not have a major effect on the phytate content. Since several inositol pentaphosphate isomers were produced during phytate degradation, it can be concluded that peas contain several phytate-degrading enzymes, or one phytate-degrading enzyme with unspecific initial hydrolysation pattern.
Abstract No difference in wheat phytase activity was observed when different types of acid were used to adjust the pH of wholemeal wheat flour suspensions to pH 5·0, the optimum for wheat phytase. When whole wheat bread was made without additives or after adjustment of the dough pH with acetic acid or lingonberry (traditional ingredients in bread making in Sweden), 64%, 96% and 83%, respectively, of the initial phytate was hydrolysed. A small but significant difference between breads with and without yeast or with deactivated yeast was found, indicating that yeast contributed some phytase activity under the conditions of bread making (pH 5·3–5·8 and 30–37°C). The optimum pH of yeast phytase was found to be 3·5. The isomers of IP 5 formed with purified wheat phytase or yeast phytase were studied using sodium phytate as substrate. Wheat phytase formed 1,2,3,4,5-IP 5 whereas yeast phytase formed 1,2,4,5,6-IP 5 . Determination of the isomers of inositol pentaphosphate demonstrated that the reduction in phytate levels in bread compared with wholemeal flour resulted from both wheat and yeast phytase activities.
BACKGROUND & AIMS ::: Habitual food and nutrient intakes of 140 Indian cataract patients and 100 age- and sex-matched controls (50-75 years), from high income group and low income groups, were assessed. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Food intake was recorded by food frequency questionnaire and data were examined for linkages with blood/lens parameters of oxidative stress through a case-control study. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Intake of animal foods and fried snacks was significantly higher while vegetables, green leafy vegetables, fruit, tea and micronutrient intakes were lower in patients than in controls (p<0.001). Lens oxidative stress and opacity showed a significant negative association with fruit intake (p<0.05). Multiple regression analysis indicated association of intakes of iron, beta-carotene, ascorbic acid, tannic acid and inositol pentaphosphate with plasma oxidative stress (p<0.01) and association of intakes of iron, ascorbic acid and inositol triphosphate with lens oxidative stress (p<0.01). Weighted least square regression for lens opacity revealed that intakes of ascorbic acid, folic acid and inositol pentaphosphate explained 59.7% of the total variation (p<0.01). ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: Dietary deficiency of antioxidant micronutrients was greater for patients than controls. Deficiency of beta-carotene, ascorbic acid, folic acid, iron, phytate and polyphenols increased oxidative stress in blood and lens.
The bioavailability of Fe from 24 select genotypes of bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) seeds containing a range of concentrations of Fe, myo-inositol pentaphosphate plus phytic acid (IP5+IP6), and tannins was studied using a rat model. Bean accessions, selected from field trials for their variations in Fe, phytate, and tannin seed concentrations, were grown in a greenhouse in nutrient solutions radiolabeled with (59)Fe. Mature seeds were autoclaved and lyophilized. Test meals (containing 1 g of dried bean, 0.5 g of sucrose, and 1 g of basal Fe-deficient diet) were fed to marginally Fe-depleted weanling rats over a 3-h period; rats were radioassayed in a gamma-spectrometer immediately after feeding and daily thereafter for the next 10 d. Radioiron retention data were used to calculate percent Fe absorption (i.e., Fe bioavailability) from the meals. Seed Fe concentrations ranged from 52 to 157 microg g(-)(1) dry weight. There was a tendency to also select for higher Zn concentrations in the beans when selecting for high Fe concentrations. The Fe bioavailability to rats from test meals depended on the genotype and varied from 53% to 76% of the total Fe. Bean genotypes with higher seed Fe concentrations resulted in increased amounts of bioavailable Fe to rats. There was no significant correlation between the Fe concentration in different bean genotypes and Fe bioavailability to rats attributable to variations in IP5+IP6 or tannins, even though these antinutrients varied widely (i.e., from 19.6 to 29.2 micromol of IP5+IP6 g(-)(1) and from 0.35 to 2.65 mg of tannins g(-)(1)) in the test meals. Other unknown seed factors (i.e., antinutrients or promoter substances) may be contributing factors affecting Fe bioavailability from bean seeds.
The effect of acute blood loss on erythrocyte metabolism has been studied in a number of mammals. This study was designated to provide comparative data in chickens. Twenty to 30 ml of blood were removed from 7 chickens for 3 successive days. Packed red cell volumes were restored at the rate of 1.46% per day, and a maximum reticulocyte count (26.7%) occurred on the third day after the initial phlebotomy. Fourteen of the 16 erythrocyte enzymes measured became elevated significantly. Enzymatic activity was increased when the greatest numbers of young red cells were in the circulation and declined as the erythrocytes aged. Initial enzymatic activity was not related to the subsequent magnitude of increased activity. Inositol pentaphosphate, adenosine 5'-triphosphate, and reduced glutathione, but not 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, increased significantly in the postphlebotomy period. The markedly rapid and significant rise of inositol pentaphosphate suggested that it was controlled. That could be the way hemoglobin function is controlled during changing physiologic requirements.
Abstract 1. A method for fractionation of the phosphorylated metabolic intermediates in extracts of chicken red blood cells by anion exchange chromatography using a linear ammonium formate gradient, pH 3·45, is described. 2. The method will resolve myoinositol pentaphosphate (IPP) and/or 2,3-diphosphoglyceric acid (2,3-DPG) as well as the other major phosphorylated intermediates of red cells. 3. The amounts of AMP, Pi, ADP, ATP, and IPP in terms of μmoles of Pi per cm3 of red blood cells (RBC) of the adult chicken were found to be 0·3, 1·2, 1·0, 3·1, and 17·3, respectively.
Abstract myo-Inositol hexaphosphate adenosine diphosphate phosphotransferase transfers phosphate from myo-inositol hexaphosphate to adenosine diphosphate to synthesize adenosine triphosphate. This enzyme has been isolated and purified from ungerminated mungbean seeds and found to be different from guanosine diphosphate phosphotransferase. A purification of about 200-fold with 15% recovery has been obtained. The optimal pH of the reaction is 7.0 and is dependent on the presence of a divalent cation, i.e., Mg 2+ and Mn 2+ . The K m value for myo-inositol hexaphosphate has been found to be 0.41 × 10 −4 m and V is 90.0 nmol of P i transferred per milligram of protein per 20 min. K m for ADP is 0.88 × 10 -4 m and V is 83.3 nmol of phosphorus transferred to ADP per milligram of protein per 20 min. The ADP phosphotransferase reaction is reversible to the extent of about 50% of the forward reaction. dADP is partly effective as an acceptor but other ribonucleoside mono- and diphosphates cannot substitute for ADP. The products ATP and myo-inositol pentaphosphate have been confirmed by several criteria. It has also been shown that this enzyme transfers phosphate only from a specific phosphoryl group (C-2 position) of myo-inositol hexaphosphate for the synthesis of ATP and 1,3,4,5,6-myo-inositol pentaphosphate or pentakis (dihydrogen phosphate).
Novel snack-type functional foods based on extruded lentil flours could convey the related health benefit of their bioactive compounds, provide a gluten-free alternative to consumers, and potentially increase the consumption of pulses. Extrusion treatment promoted an increase in galactopinitol, ciceritol, raffinose, stachyose and total α-galactoside content, in most lentil flours. As α-galactosides may act as prebiotics, they could convey beneficial effects to human and monogastric animals. Conversely, extrusion significantly (p < 0.05) reduced the inositol hexaphosphate content to less phosphorylated phytates (inositol pentaphosphate and inositol tetraphosphate), which provide health effects. The gluten-free formulation (control formulation #3) presented the highest significant (p < 0.05) drop in the inositol hexaphosphate of 14.7-fold decrease, but had a large increase in inositol pentaphosphate, due to extrusion processing. These two results are desirable in the finished product. Extrusion also caused a significant (p < 0.05) reduction in the trypsin content and completely inactivated lectin, in all processed samples.
promoted an increase in galactopinitol, ciceritol, raffinose, stachyose and total α-30" galactosides content, in most lentil flours. As α-galactosides may act as prebiotics, they 31" could convey beneficial effect to human and monogastric animals. Conversely, 32" extrusion significantly (p< 0.05) reduced the inositol hexaphosphate content to less 33" phosphorylated phytates (inositol pentaphosphate and inositol tetraphosphate), which 34" provide health effects. The gluten-free formulation (Control formulation #3) presented 35" the highest significant (p< 0.05) drop in the inositol hexaphosphate of 14.7 fold 36"
decrease, but had a large increase in inositol pentaphosphate, due to extrusion 37" processing. These two results are desirable in the finished product. Extrusion also 38" caused a significant (p< 0.05) reduction in trypsin content and completed inactivated 39" lectin, in all processed samples. 40"
Thermal stabilities of chicken, grey lag goose (Anser anser), turkey as avian hemoglobins (Hbs); and human, bovine, sheep and horse as mammalian Hbs in hemolysate form were investigated and compared with oxygen affinities taken from literature. The thermal stability was obtained from thermal profiles using temperature scanning spectrophotometry. The buffer conditions were 50 mM Tris, pH 7.2, and 1 mM EDTA. The average of the inverse temperature transitions, average hydrophobicity, total van der Waals volume, partial molal volume and hydration potential were calculated by computational methods. The hemolysed avian Hbs have a lower oxygen affinity, higher thermal stability and higher self association than the mammalian Hbs. These observations are based on amino-acid composition, influence of ionic effectors, and the presence of Hb D in several avian Hbs. The results indicate that the avian Hbs have a more tense (T) conformation than the mammalian Hbs. The respiratory system of birds differs from that of mammals; whereas their hemoglobins are functionally similar. Oxygen affinities of mammalian and avian hemoglobins have been studied by a number of investigators who have found the presence of inositol pentaphosphate (IP 5 ) in the birds blood in
A procedure was developed that enables up to 60 samples containing phytic acid to be analyzed in one day. Extraction time was reduced to 1-3 min per sample by using ultrasonic irradiation. Concentration of the extract was simplified by using a commercially available silica-based, anion-exchange column. High-performance liquid chromatography analysis of the concentrated sample on a macroporous polymer column was accomplished in 8 min. The column easily resolved mixtures containing inositol hexaphosphate, inositol pentaphosphate, and inositol tetraphosphate. Samples of wheat bran as small as 50 mg were analyzed by this system.
The respiratory system of birds differs from that of mammals; whereas their hemoglobins are functionally similar. Oxygen affinities of mammalian and avian hemoglobins have been studied by a number of investigators who have found the presence of inositol pentaphosphate (IP 5 ) in the birds blood instead of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, DPG, found in mammalian blood (Lenfant et al., 1969; Christensen & Dill, 1965; Bartels et al., 1966; Tuker, 1972; Knapp et al., 1999) T(g), temperature at midpoint of thermal changes of turbidity, measured as variation in absorbance at 700 nm; T m , temperature at midpoint of thermal denaturation; T t , inverse temperature transition.
The inositol phosphate content of naturally fermented cowpeas (Vigna sinensis var. Carilla) was studied using ion-pair HPLC and 1H NMR spectroscopy. The fermented flour was extracted with 0.5 M HCl, and the extract was purified and fractionated by ion-exchange chromatography. 1H NMR allowed for the identification of two monophosphates [Ins(1 or 3)P1 and Ins(4 or 6)P1], one inositol diphosphate [Ins(1,4)P2], three inositol triphosphates [Ins(1,2,6)P3, Ins(1,5,6)P3, and Ins(1,4,5)P3], one inositol tetraphosphate [Ins(1,3,4,5)P4], and one inositol pentaphosphate [Ins(1,2,3,5,6)P5]. Some of these isomers [Ins(1,4,5)P3 and Ins(1,3,4,5)P4] are considered to play important biological roles in intracellular signaling. Keywords: Fermentation; cowpeas; inositol phosphates; 1H NMR spectroscopy
Haemoglobin is a physiologically significant metalloprotein that is involved in the exchange of gases for sustaining life. The respiratory system of birds is unique and complex compared with that of mammals. Many investigations of avian haemoglobins have revealed the presence of inositol pentaphosphate (IP5), a principal allosteric effector that is involved in regulation of their function. Structural investigations of avian haemoglobins are presently not adequate to explain their function. Efforts have been made in this direction in order to understand the oxygen-binding affinity involved in adapting to hypoxia in avian haemoglobins. Fresh whole blood was collected from pigeon (Columba livia) and purified using a DEAE cellulose anion-exchange chromatographic column. Crystallization of pigeon haemoglobin was accomplished using the hanging-drop vapour-diffusion method using PEG 3350 as a precipitant in 50 mM sodium acetate buffer pH 5.5 with 1 M NaCl. Data collection was carried out using a MAR345 image-plate detector system. The crystals diffracted to 2 A resolution. Pigeon haemoglobin crystallizes in a triclinic space group, with two whole biological molecules in the asymmetric unit and with unit-cell parameters a = 55.005, b = 65.528, c = 104.370 A, alpha = 78.742, beta = 89.819, gamma = 65.320 degrees .
Phytate (myo-inositol hexaphosphate, InsP6) is an important dietary component of many edible seeds, legumes, nuts, and whole cereals and generally occurs as a calcium/magnesium salt. The major food sources of phytate typically contain 0.5% to 3% of dry weight as phytate [1] [2] [3] [4] . Other inositol phosphates, such as inositol pentaphosphates (InsP5s) and inositol tetraphosphates (InsP4s), occur at lower levels in these plant foods (<15% of all InsPs) [5] . Diets rich in legumes, nuts, and whole grains provide an important source of phytate. Thus, the Mediterranean diet provides 1 g to 1.5 g of daily phytate as a calcium/magnesium salt (also known as phytin), much more than diets with refined cereals. The European/American diet can supply a broad range of 0.2 g to 1.5 g of daily phytate, depending on consumption of legumes, nuts, and whole cereals [6] . Administration of high phytate doses must be adequately controlled and the content of minerals must be considered. When balanced diets contain adequate amounts of legumes, whole cereals and nuts, as in the Mediterranean diet, the phytate supplied by these foods is enough to maintain adequate levels in the organism and no negative effects on the mineral balance is produced [6] .
Abstract The effect of heat treatment on duodenal flow of phytate, i.e., inositol hexaphosphate, from rapeseed meal was studied in four sheep fitted with duodenal cannula. The rapeseed meal was fed untreated, heated at 133°C (H133) or heated at 143°C (H143) for 3 h. Levels of phytate and its hydrolysis products, i.e., inositol tri-, tetra- and pentaphosphates were measured in duodenal digesta. Phytate was the major form of inositol phosphate (IP) in the duodenal digesta. Heat treatment increased daily flow of inositol hexaphosphate, inositol pentaphosphate, and inositol tetraphosphate into the duodenum. Approximately 22, 37 and 55% of dietary phosphorus in the form of IPs was recovered at the duodenum of sheep fed untreated, H133- and H143-treated rapeseed meals, respectively. Results suggest that heat treatment of rapeseed meal increases flow of phytate into the duodenum, decreasing the digestibility of dietary phytate phosphorus for sheep.
Abstract (1) 2,3-Diphosphoglyceric acid (2,3-DPG) is present in the erythrocytes (RBC) of the 68-day loggerhead turtle embryo and 44-day green sea turtle embryo at levels of 7.4 and 5.5 μmoles/ml of RBC, representing the major organic phosphate during the latter period of embryonic development. (2) Inositol pentaphosphate (IPP) is absent in the red blood cells of the embryos of both the loggerhead and green sea turtle. (3) Near equimolar amounts of 2,3-DPG and IPP are present in the erythrocytes of the adult loggerhead and green sea turtle. The total concentration of these two organic phosphates is approximately 0.75 μmoles/ml of RBC in the adult of both species. (4) There is a switch from embryonic to adult hemoglobin during development of these two species of turtles; the two embryonic bands have identical electrophoretic mobilities, whereas the two adult bands migrate differently on cellulose acetate at pH 8.6. (5) The whole blood oxygen affinity of the adult loggerhead and green sea turtle is 60.3 and 32.6 Torr, respectively. (6) The stripped adult hemoglobins in these two species of turtles show no change in oxygen affinity upon addition of 2,3-DPG, ATP, or IPP. (7) It therefore appears unlikely that whole blood oxygen affinity is controlled by organic phosphate modulation of hemoglobin function in these species of turtles.
The strategies adopted by animals to regulate the supply of oxygen for their biological demands may be broadly classified into two types: one involving the anatomy of the respiratory system and the other involving the physiology, including the structural characteristics, of the oxygen-transport protein, i.e. haemoglobin (Hb). The Hb molecule has two and two subunits, each of which contains a ferrous haem group to which oxygen binds reversibly. A characteristic structural feature of Hbs is the presence of seven or eight helices, called the 'globin fold', in each subunit. At the quaternary level, Hb, according to the allosteric theory proposed by Monod and coworkers, adopts two stable structures: the T (tensed or unliganded) and the R (relaxed or liganded) states (Monod et al., 1965) . In addition to the T and R states, another liganded conformation, the R2 state, has been proposed by Silva et al. (1992) . RR2 and R3 conformations have been proposed by Mueser et al. (2000) . The major allosteric effectors that bind to fish Hb are GTP and ATP, although some species use 2,3diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) and inositol pentaphosphate (IPP) (Val, 2000) ; these preferentially bind to T-state Hb and facilitate the uploading of oxygen from red blood cells (RBC) to tissues. In fish, hypoxia decreases the ATP/GTP content and increases the blood oxygen affinity (Wood & Johansen, 1973) ; where both ATP and GTP are present, GTP acts as the primary modulator. The amino acids that are principally responsible for the Bohr effect and other heterotrophic interactions in human Hb are known from structural and functional studies of native and modified Hb. However, the Bohr effect varies considerably between species within classes. For example, the diverse group of teleost fish have multiple Hb components in their RBC, some of which have a high Bohr effect (anodic) and some of which have a low or no Bohr effect (cathodic). Another unique feature in teleost fish is the Root effect, which is an extreme pH sensitivity where the Hb not only shows a strong decrease in oxygen affinity at low pH but also loses its cooperativity (Brittain, 1987) . Some fish (e.g. carp, tench and plaice) show no elevation of blood Hb despite exposure to much more severe hypoxia than that encountered by mammals or birds, whereas others (e.g. trout, yellowtail and eel) do show elevated Hb (Weber & Jensen, 1988) . Previously, we have carried out physicochemical and biochemical studies on catfish (Clarias magur) collagen in various environments using hydrodynamic and thermodynamic studies and geometric computations (Rose et al., 1988; Rose & Mandal, 1996) . Moreover, C. magur (Day, 1981) has some unusual cavities in the throat and the gill chamber regions that are covered by flat tissue (epithelium) which is richly supplied with blood and connected to diminutive blood capillaries. Intake of oxygen and release of carbon dioxide takes place in these cavities, in addition to the normal gill respiration, which is considerably reduced in these forms. The acquisition of such accessory respiratory organs enables these fish to survive out of water for up to 24 h. Thus, catfish Hb was investigated with a view to understanding its oxygen affinity as well as the survival mechanism.
Abstract The oxygen equilibrium of whole chicken blood has a P 50 of 52.3 mm Hg and a Hill coefficient of 2.6 at pH 7.4 and 37 °C when determined with new microtechniques which are not vitiated by cellular respiration. The apparent failure of the haemoglobin to reach full saturation at arterial P O 2 is discussed in relation to the haemoglobin-oxygen equilibrium concept. The low affinity observed is due to intraerythrocytic inositol pentaphosphate (IPP), and the affinity of a haemolysate ‘stripped’ of IPP is greatly increased ( Δ log P 50 = 1.25). Unlike the mammalian analogue 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, IPP concentration of whole blood does not decrease after incubation for 10 hr at 37 °C.
Abstract 1. 1. High concns of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) were found in red cells of the green sea turtle late in embryonic development. The DPG disappeared during the first yr of life and was gradually replaced by inositol pentaphosphate (IP5). 2. 2. Neither DPG nor IP5 were found in young hatchling alligators or in animals to 3 yr of age. 3. 3. The bullfrog and a salamander had elevated DPG but no IP5 in their red cells in both gill and lung phases of their lives. 4. 4. No DPG or IP5 were detected in the red cells of a variety of fish.
The primary structures of the alpha- and beta-chains from greylag goose (Anser anser) hemoglobin are given. The sequence was deduced automatically in the sequenator. They differ from chicken alpha-chains in the exchange of 30, from beta-chains in the exchange of only 8 amino acid residues, respectively. The contact points of inositol pentaphosphate with the beta-chains are identical in chicken and greylag goose. Unequal evolution of the beta-chains was found, which is published here for the first time. By comparing the sequences of chicken and greylag goose and considering paleontological data, we found the mutation rate of the alpha-chains to be normal, i.e. 6 million years/mutation. This corresponds to the values for other species. The mutation rate of beta-chains is reduced and was calculated at 25 million years/mutation. This is possibly due to a specific function of beta-chains. This paper is the basis of our attempt to explain on a molecular basis the ability of bar-headed goose (Anser indicus) to fly and breathe at high altitudes.
CO2 and fixed acid Bohr effects (d log PO2/d pH) were determined for fresh whole blood of adult house sparrow (Passer domesticus) at 35, 41 and 45 degrees C. At each temperature, the effects of titrating blood with CO2 at constant base excess (CO2 Bohr effect) were similar at P50 (35 degrees, -0.48; 41 degrees, -0.49; 45 degrees, -0.49). The CO2 Bohr slopes were also reasonably saturation independent between 10 and 90% S. Fixed acid Bohr values, determined by titrating sparrow blood with HCl and NaHCO3 at 4% CO2, were significantly less than the corresponding CO2 coefficients at half saturation (35 degrees, -0.43; 41 degrees, -0.39; 45 degrees, -0.41). The difference between CO2 and H+ Bohr effects, assumed here to represent carbamino CO2 binding to hemoglobin, decreased in magnitude with increasing saturation at each temperature. Inositol pentaphosphate (IPP, 3.1 mumol/ml RBC) and ATP (7.7 mumol/ml RBC) were the major organic phosphates present in Passer erythrocytes. CO2 and organic phosphates are known to complete for common binding sites on the Hb molecule. Because of IPP's strong binding affinity and high concentration in most avian red cells, carbamate formation is generally suppressed in bird blood. The presence of a small but significant specific CO2 effect in Passer blood may indicate that one or both sparrow isohemoglobins has reduced affinity for IPP and/or ATP, permitting CO2 to compete more effectively in Hb-carbamate formation.
Abstract Hematocrit ratio, hemoglobin concentration and blood oxygen affinity, Bohr effect factor and Hill coefficient, adenosine triphosphate and inositol pentaphosphate (IPP) concentrations were studied in blood of adult pigeons exposed first at 140 m, and then for 3 weeks at 4000 m in an altitude chamber. At altitude, the hematocrit ratio and hemoglobin concentration significantly increased, IPP concentration decreased, and P 50 did not change. A lower mean red cell age and a higher hemoglobin concentration may account for the unchanged P 50 . Adaptation to hypoxia of the tissue oxygen supply was shown by a greater blood O 2 capacitance (ΔC Hb O 2 /Δ o 2 ) in the physiological range of oxygen partial pressures.
The changes in organic phosphates of turkey erythrocytes (RBC) have been determined in relation to the changes in oxygen affinity of whole blood during growth of the embryo and poult. On a molar basis, 2,3 diphosphoglyceric acid (2,3-DPG) is the predominant organic phosphate of erythrocytes from turkey embryos during the last week of incubation. However, on the basis of relative % phosphate, 2,3-DPG is the major organic phosphate of the erythrocytes from turkey embryos on day 23 and 25 of incubation only. With the exception of day 23 and 25 incubation, adenosine triphosphate (ATP) represents the major organic phosphate of the erythrocytes of the turkey embryo and poult during the last week of embryonic development and through the first 29 days after hatching. The whole blood P50 during the last week of incubation and the first 8 days after hatching correlates best with the amount of ATP in the erythrocytes. The effects of inositol pentaphosphate on P50 of the whole blood is much more gradual and appears to become of major influence after 2-3 weeks post-hatching.
Phytases are enzymes that catalyse the dephosphorylation of phytate in a stepwise manner to degrade inositol phosphate esters (i.e., myo-inositol pentaphosphate to myo-inositol monophosphate) [5, 7] . Phytase makes the phosphorus (P) from phytin available for animal digestion [8] . Reduction or elimination of inorganic phosphate supplementation of animal feed reduces P the levels in manure by about 33%, thus cutting the pollution burden by one-third [9] . Up to 80% of the total P content in plants may be present in the form of phytate and is thus effectively unavailable for monogastric or agastric aquatic animals [10] .
Abbreviation Key: dP = dialyzable P; IP4 = inositol tetraphosphate; IP5 = inositol pentaphosphate; IP6 = inositol hexaphosphate; SBM = soybean meal. ABSTRACT Three experiments were conducted to determine the effects of pelleting and extrusion of feeds on the utilization of phytate P by broilers. The first experiment investigated the effects of pelleting the whole corn-soybean meal (SBM) diet, the corn, or SBM separately on phytate P utilization. The P-deficient basal diet contained 0.5% total P and 0.2% phytate P. Steam pelleting the whole diet, the corn, or SBM separately did not decrease the severity of the P deficiency obtained and there were no indications of increased phytate P utilization. In the second experiment, the whole corn-SBM P-deficient diet was extruded. Extrusion of the diet did not influence bone ash and P rickets, both sensitive criteria of P deficiency. Extrusion decreased Ca, P, and phytate P retention and decreased the ME value of the diet. In the third experiment, phytate P retention by chickens fed three commercial pelleted diets was compared to chicks fed the corn-SBM P-deficient diet. Phytate P retention by the chickens fed the commercial diets was much lower than retention by chickens fed the corn-SBM P-deficient diet. These studies gave no indication that pelleting or extrusion of corn-SBM diets would increase phytate P utilization by broiler chickens.
Haemoglobin is a tetrameric protein that carries oxygen from the lungs to tissues and carbon dioxide from tissues back to the lungs. The oxygen-binding properties of haemoglobin are regulated through the binding of allosteric effectors. The respiratory system of avian species is unique and complex in nature when compared with that of mammals. In avian species, inositol pentaphosphate (inositol-P(5)) is present in the erythrocytes of the adult and is thought to be the major factor responsible for the relatively high oxygen affinity of the whole blood. The ostrich (Struthio camelus) is a large flightless bird which contains inositol tetrakisphosphate (inositol-P(4)) in its erythrocytes and its whole blood oxygen affinity is higher. Efforts have been made to explore the structure-function relationship of ostrich haemoglobin. Ostrich haemoglobin was purified using ion-exchange chromatography. Haemoglobin crystals were grown by the hanging-drop vapour-diffusion method using PEG 3350 as the precipitant in 50 mM phosphate buffer pH 7.2. Data were collected using a MAR345 image-plate detector system. The crystals of ostrich haemoglobin diffracted to 2.2 A resolution. They belonged to the orthorhombic space group P2(1)2(1)2(1) with one whole biological molecule in the asymmetric unit; the unit-cell parameters were a = 80.93, b = 81.68, c = 102.05 A.
Abstract 1. 1. The object of this study was to compare the pattern of red cell phosphates at different ages of development of two members of the order of non-flying ratite birds, the emu and the rhea, with data which had been obtained on examples from four orders of flying birds: chick and others (Galliformes). duck (Anseriformes), sea gull (Charadriformes) and pigeon (Columbiformes). Limited information is also given on another ratite, the ostrich. 2. 2. Distinctive features of the flying birds were a high concentration of inositol pentaphosphate (IP5) in the adult, with only traces of other inositol polyphosphates, and a brief appearance of a high concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) late in embryological development. 3. 3. Maximum IP5 in red cells of adult emu, rhea and ostrich was only about half of that found in other birds. 4. 4. Inositol tetraphosphate was absent in the emu. was one quarter of the IP5 in the rhea and twice as much as the IP5 in the ostrich. 5. 5. No DPG was found in red cells of emu and rhea at any age; however, the ostrich had a high concentration in red cells of a late embryo.
The relationship between whole blood oxygen affinity and erythrocyte (RBC) organic phosphate composition of three species of air-breathing teleosts (Lepidosiren paradoxa, Electrophorus electrocus, and Synbranchus marmoratus) and three pairs of closely related air-breathing and water-breathing fishes (Arapaima gigas vs. Osteoglossum bicirrhosom, Hoplerythrinus unitaeniatus vs. Hoplias malabaricos, and Pterygoplichthys sp. vs. Pseudoplatystoma sp.) have been studied.Packed cell volumes, hemoglobin concentrations, whole blood P50's, and total erythrocyte phosphates are higher in air breathers than in water breathers.GTP and ATP are the predominant organic phosphates in the erythrocytes of all of the species studied except A. gigas, which contains inositol pentaphosphate as the major organic phosphate at a level of 1.8 μmol/cm3 RBC or 39% of the total cell phosphate.
Abstract The crystal structure of a high oxygen affinity species of hemoglobin, bar-headed goose hemoglobin in deoxy form, has been determined to a resolution of 2.8 A. The R and R free factor of the model are 0.197 and 0.243, respectively. The structure reported here is a special deoxy state of hemoglobin and indicates the differences in allosteric mechanisms between the goose and human hemoglobins. The quaternary structure of the goose deoxy hemoglobin shows obvious differences from that of human deoxy hemoglobin. The rotation angle of one αβ dimer relative to its partner in a tetramer molecule from the goose oxy to deoxy hemoglobin is only 4.6°, and the translation is only 0.3 A, which are much smaller than those in human hemoglobin. In the α 1 β 2 switch region of the goose deoxy hemoglobin, the imidazole ring of His β 2 97 does not span the side-chain of Thr α 1 41 relative to the oxy hemoglobin as in human hemoglobin. And the tertiary structure changes of heme pocket and FG corner are also smaller than that in human hemoglobin. A unique mutation among avian and mammalian Hbs of α119 from proline to alanine at the α 1 β 1 interface in bar-headed goose hemoglobin brings a gap between Ala α119 and Leu β55, the minimum distance between the two residues is 4.66 A. At the entrance to the central cavity around the molecular dyad, some residues of two β chains form a positively charged groove where the inositol pentaphosphate binds to the hemoglobin. The His β146 is at the inositol pentaphosphate binding site and the salt-bridge between His β146 and Asp β94 does not exist in the deoxy hemoglobin, which brings the weak chloride-independent Bohr effect to bar-headed goose hemoglobin.
Water-soluble phosphates of red blood cells of the South American osteoglossid fish Arapaima gigas were measured by ion-exchange column chromatography. Major phosphate components were ATP and GTP with the former predominant. Of special interest was the presence of a large pool of inositol pentaphosphate, hitherto seen only in red cells of birds and turtles. A close relative of Arapaima, another South American osteoglossid, Osteoglossum bicirrhosum, had no inositol polyphosphates in its red cells. This study stemmed from work on the research vessel Alpha Helix on the Amazon River.
Background "Avians" often show efficient oxygen management to meet the demands of their metabolism. Hemoglobin, a transporter protein consists of four non-covalently linked subunits contain haem binding hydrophobic pocket serves as a site of allosteric cooperativity. The physiology and anatomy of both mammals and avian are functionally different, in birds, the respiratory system formed by small air sacs that serve as tidal ventilation for the lungs and have no significant exchange across their cells. Parakeet (Psittacula Krameri) a tropical and non-migrating species and it is easily adapted to living in disturbed habitat. The sequence analysis reveals that α and β chain of parakeet hemoglobin highly similar grey lag goose and bar headed goose hemoglobin respectively. Thus it has been tempted us to study in to analyzing the sequence and structural comparison of this hemoglobin to find out the physiological capabilities of parakeet hemoglobin. Objective The structure determination studies of parakeet hemoglobin by X-ray diffraction. The sequence and structure are compared with goose, chicken and human Hb, emphasizing the role of amino acids in the subunit contacts that facilitate survival by low oxygen demand. Methods The Hb was purified and crystallized by hanging drop vapor diffusion method using poly ethylene glycol (PEG) 3350 and sodium phosphate buffer. X-ray diffracted data set was collected at 3Å resolution, the data was processed in Automar and molecular replacement, refinements, model building was carried out in CCP4i program package. The final refined model was deposited in protein data bank with accession id 2zfb. Results The tertiary structure of Parakeet Hb is compared with the met form of BHG Hb (1c40) and oxy form of GLG (1faw) and oxy form of human Hbs (1hho). Superimposing parakeet Hb α1β1 subunit with 'R' state human Hb shows an r.m.s.d of 0.98 Å and for BHG and GLG Hb, the r.m.s.d shows 0.72 and 0.61 Å. The replacement of α115Asp in parakeet Hb as against the α115Glu in human Hb results in the movement of GH corners. The amino acid proline at α50 present only in Parakeet Hb and Chicken HbD and not present in any other avian family which includes human Hb. The residue α78Thr located in EF corner loop region, which slightly diverge when superimposing with human and BHG Hb and also replacement of α113Asn present only in Parakeet Hb placed near the FG helix corner. Conclusion The present study describes the structure determination of parakeet hemoglobin and its structural features to understand its oxygen affinity characteristics. The crystals were obtained by buffered low-salt conditions, like those of chicken HbD, carbonmonoxy and cyanomet human Hb. The present study reveals several interesting and unique modifications in the finer aspects of the quaternary structure of parakeet Hb, which are involved in oxygen affinity characteristics and the α1β1 subunit contacts. Crystallization of parakeet Hb with allosteric effectors like Inositol pentaphosphate may bring further understanding of the influence of physiological and environmental factors on the quaternary structure.
Summary ::: ::: The nature of the inositol pentaphosphate and hexaphosphate isomers in a number of contrasting Canadian and Scottish soils has been examined. ::: ::: ::: ::: The mixed esters were extracted from the soil with alkali and separated from other soil phosphates by anion-exchange chromatography using HCOONH4 as eluent. The composition of the mixture was established by anion-exchange chromatography using a gradient of HC1 as eluent, followed by paper chromatography of the esters thus separated, and by paper chromatography of the hydrolysis products. ::: ::: ::: ::: Esters of myo- and scylloinositol together constituted more than 90 per cent of the mixture in most cases. Relatively small amounts of dl-inositol and neoinositol were detected in hydrolysates and it was estimated that esters of these cyclitols did not exceed 10 per cent and 1 per cent, respectively, of the total. The ratio of myo-+dl-inositol hexaphosphates to scylloinositol hexaphosphate ranged from 1.1 to 2.7 in the Canadian soils and 1.8 to 4.6 in the Scottish soils. The ratio of hexaphosphates to pentaphosphates ranged from 0.9 to 2.4 in the Canadian soils and 3.0 to 4.3 in the Scottish soils. ::: ::: ::: ::: The three soils with the highest pH values contained relatively large amounts of scyllo- relative to myoinositol hexaphosphate, but one very acid soil also contained a high proportion of this isomer and no consistent relationship was noted between the constitution of the inositol polyphosphate fraction and any other soil property.
We have determined the crystal structure of bar-headed goose haemoglobin in the oxy form to a resolution of 2.0 A. The R-factor of the model is 19.8%. The structure is similar to human HbA, but contacts between the subunits show slightly altered packing of the tetramer. Bar-headed goose blood shows a greatly elevated oxygen affinity compared to closely related species of geese. This is apparently due to a single proline to alanine mutation at the alpha 1 beta 1 interface which destabilises the T state of the protein. The beta chain N and C termini are well-localized, and together with other neighbouring basic groups they form a strongly positively charged groove at the entrance to the central cavity around the molecular dyad. The well-ordered conformation and the three-dimensional distribution of positive charges clearly indicate this area to be the inositol pentaphosphate binding site of bird haemoglobins.
Natural fermentation and an inoculum containing 10% (vol/vol) Lactobacillus fermentum or Lactobacillus plantarum were used to obtain fermented flours from Vigna sinensis L. var. carilla seeds that had been washed with distilled water and dried at 55°C for 24 h. To optimize the fermentation parameters (lactic acid bacterium level, bean flour concentration, and fermentation time), several small-scale fermentation processes were carried out. On the basis of the results obtained, fermentor-scale bean fermentation by microorganisms present on the seeds (natural fermentation [NF]) or by inoculation with L. plantarum (PF) was carried out at 37°C for 48 h with a concentration of 300 g of bean flour per liter. The fermented flours (NF and PF) were also autoclaved. The levels of α-galactosides, inositol phosphates, trypsin inhibitor activity (TIA), soluble carbohydrates, starch (total and available), total available carbohydrates, thiamin, and riboflavin were determined for the processed cowpea flours, and microbiological studies were also carried out. The beans' levels of α-galactosides, TIA, and inositol hexaphosphate decreased by 95, 50, and 85%, respectively, for the NF flour and by 87, 27, and 85%, respectively, for the PF flour, while inositol pentaphosphate and inositol tetraphosphate were present in both fermented flours. The sucrose content decreased, and glucose, fructose, and galactose appeared as a result of fermentation. The levels of total available sugars and thiamin decreased by 2 and 12% and by 69 and 43%, respectively, while the riboflavin content increased by 106 and 94% for NF and PF flours, respectively. When NF and PF cowpea flours were heated in an autoclave for 20 min, TIA decreased further (by 80 and 56%, respectively). According to the chemical and microbiological results obtained in this study, fermentation with L. plantarum and autoclaving is an excellent process by which to produce a new functional food from the seed of a cheap legume (Vigna sinensis L. var. carilla).
The P50 values of "stripped" fetal and adult bovine hemoglobin were 18.4 and 28.9 respectively. Neither the oxygen-hemoglobin dissociation curve nor the Hill coefficient, n, of fetal or adult bovine hemoglobin was affected by uric acid riboside (UAR), 2,3-diphosphoglyceric acid (2,3-DPG), adenosine triphosphate (ATP), or inositol pentaphosphate (IPP). Combinations of UAR and ATP with adult bovine hemoglobin or 2,3-DPG and ATP with fetal hemoglobin also had no effect. It was concluded that neither adult nor fetal bovine red cells contained an identifiable compound which affects the binding of oxygen to hemoglobin.
Abstract We have studied the binding of inositol pentaphosphate (IPP) to the hemoglobins from two species of goose living at low and high altitudes, using the proton absorption method. Measurements were done at 25 and 37 degrees C in a pH range between 6.0 and 8.8. The bird hemoglobins show a high affinity and a binding stoichiometry of 1 IPP molecule/hemoglobin tetramer both in the ligated and unligated state, indicating the same binding site for IPP in oxy- and deoxyhemoglobin. The results indicate that the interaction of IPP with both geese hemoglobins is very similar. For the deoxyhemoglobins of both species the IPP-binding constant shows a strong pH dependence extending over a wide pH range (i.e. +/- 2 x 10(6) M at pH 8.8 and +/- 6 x 10(10) M at pH 6.0). The binding constant of IPP for the oxyhemoglobins shows a much weaker pH dependence (i.e. +/- 4 x 10(4) M at pH 8.8 and +/- 3 x 10(6) M at pH 6.0), indicating that the interaction of IPP with the goose hemoglobin is strongly dependent on the state of ligation of the protein. The IPP binding constants for the oxy- and deoxyhemoglobins are found to be in good agreement with the IPP-induced change in oxygen affinity of both hemoglobins as estimated from oxygen binding curves.
Abstract 1. 1. The major phosphorylated metabolic intermediates of the erythrocytes (RBC) and P 50 of the whole blood from the mature turkey, pea fowl, pheasant, guinea, and quail have been determined and compared with similar information from the blood of the 23-day turkey embryo, 21-day pheasant embryo, and 21-day guinea embryo. 2. 2. Inositol pentaphosphate (IPP) is the predominant organic phosphate in the RBC of the mature birds at levels of 4.05, 4.31, 3.34, 3.11, and 3.32μmoles/cm 3 RBC in the turkey, pea fowl, pheasant, guinea, and quail, respectively. 3. 3. 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) is the predominant organic phosphate in the erythrocytes of the 23-day turkey embryo, 21-day pheasant embryo, and 21-day guinea embryo at levels of 4.79, 4.29, and 5.05 μmoles/cm 3 RBC. respectively. 4. 4. The P 50 's of whole blood from the mature birds ranged between 33.4 and 41.2mm Hg whereas the P 50 of whole blood from the embryos of the three species studied is between 23.5 and 22.8mm Hg. 5. 5. The relative per cent of Hb-H (hatching hemoglobin) is 13.0 in blood of embryos from the guinea eggs and approximately 0.7 in blood of embryos from pheasant eggs.
During the Alpha Helix expeditions to the rivers of the Amazon basin, inositol pentaphosphate (IPP) was detected in the erythrocytes of Arapaima gigas. We analyzed the intraerythrocytic phosphate levels of A. gigas specimens during the first year of life in captivity. IPP increased slowly during the first year, stabilizing at around 7 mM when the animals reached 1–1.5 m in length. ATP and GTP concentrations decreased in parallel. Wild animals within the same size range showed similar intraerythrocytic IPP levels. These changes represent qualitative and quantitative adjustments of the principal modulators of haemoglobin–oxygen affinity in the erythrocytes of A. gigas. These temporal changes seem to play an important physiological role, since this species changes its respiratory habit from aquatic respiration to obligatory air breathing, when it uses a modified swim bladder.
Blackgram (Vigna mungo (L.) Hepper), locally known as urdbean originated from central Asia and India from where it was domesticated. It is now grown and consumed in many tropical areas of Asia, Africa and Madagascar. It is an important pulse crop of India, cultivated annually on about 3.24 million ha with annual production of 1.96 million tonnes and productivity of about 604 kg/ha. Blackgram seeds are rich in protein (24-26% DM), starch (35% DM), crude fiber (5-6% DM) and minerals (Rajaguru and Ravindran 1985) . There are reports that Fe absorption from meals based on legumes was found to be low, ranging from 0.8 to 1.9% (Lynch et al. 1984) . Among inhibitors, phytic acid (PA), tannins and dietary fiber are most potent, while ascorbic acid is known to promote iron absorption (Sandberg 2002) . A dose-dependent inhibition of Fe, Zn and Ca absorption by phytate has been demonstrated in humans (Fredlund et al. 2002) . Inositol pentaphosphate has also been identified as an inhibitor of Fe and Zn absorption (Sandberg et al. 1999) . Certain Fe-binding polyphenols are potent inhibitors of non-haem iron absorption (Hurrell et al. 1999) . The amount of Fe-binding phenolic galloyl groups in foods roughly corresponds to the degree of inhibition of Fe absorption (Brune et al. 1989 ). This phenomenon can contribute to human mineral deficiency, particularly with respect to iron and zinc (Erdman 1981) . Deficiency of Fe and perhaps Zn, is highly prevalent in developing countries particularly in vulnerable groups such as women of fertile age, infants and adolescents (Reddy and Sanders 1990) . Developing micronutrient-dense staple food crops through conventional plant breeding and genetic selection is a relatively new approach known as bio fortification (Bouis et al. 2011) . Several studies have reported the existence of genetic variability with regards to Iron (Fe) and Zinc content (Zn) in most of the legume crops. Because these traits are most likely quantitative, it is expected that the environment would have a substantial effect and the genotype 9 environment interaction should be important. Some studies have reported a correlation between Fe and Zn content in common bean (Blair et al. 2009 ), however, some other studies found no correlation (Ribeiro et al. 2008) . Therefore, the objectives of the current study were to identify the genetic variability and heritability for Fe, Zn, phytic acid and polyphenol in blackgram genotypes, to assess the genotype 9 environment interaction and study the stability for these traits over years to guide the selection of potential parents for breeding programs; and analyse the genetic correlation between the two minerals as well as with anti-nutrients viz., phytic acid and poly phenols which directly affect the bioavailability of these micronutrients.
The content and composition of inositol phosphate phosphorus (InsP-P) in maize, wheat, barley and heat treated soybean meal, rapeseed meal and sunflower meal was determined by high-performance ion chromatography (HPIC). Approximately 0.88-0.96 of the InsP-P in the feedstuffs was present in the inositol hexaphosphate (InsP(6)) form, whereas the rest was in the inositol pentaphosphate (InsP(5)) form and for oilseeds a very small amount was present as inositol tetraphosphaie (InSP4). Rapeseed differed from this pattern by having as much as 300 and 609 InsP(4)-P/kg of the total InsP-P pool. The effect of pelleting (90 degrees C) and extrusion cooking (130-140 degrees C, 6.5 MPa) or. the composition of lnsP-P was investigated. Neither treatment had any major effect on the total content of InsP-P in the feedstuffs. However, as indicated by the statistically significant effects on the proportion of the inositol phosphates, extrusion cooking shifted the inositol phosphates from InsP(6)-P towards InSP5-P both in cereals (P=0.002) and in oilseeds (P < 0.001), which show a slight degradation of phytate during this treatment. The degradation of InSP6 to InsP(5) appeared to be unspecific with regard to isomers in all feedstuffs, indicating that the degradation was non-enzymatic, i.e. a result of the high temperature and pressure during the extrusion cooking. The degradation of InsP(6) in the feedstuffs during extrusion is too limited to have any nutritional effect on the availability of phosphorous and minerals.
A high intake of dietary calcium through out life helps reduce the risk of osteoporosis. The amount of calcium available to the body depends not only on how much is consumed, but on the body’s ability to absorb calcium and retain it. As soymilk contains significantly less calcium than cow’s milk; calcium is often added as a fortificant, but it is unclear whether this added calcium is well absorbed. Soybeans, like other legumes contain myo-inositol hexaphosphate (IP6), also known as phytate, that can chelate calcium inhibiting its absorption. Fermenting soy milk with certain lactic acid bacteria can reduce the amount of IP6. These microorganisms produce the enzyme, phytase which hydrolyses IP6 to its lower IPs including; myo-inositol pentaphosphate (IP5), IP4, IP3 and IP1. Furthermore, fermenting soy milk with lactic acid bacteria increases the conversion of isoflavones to the biologically active aglycone form. These biologically active soy isoflavones have important actions in decreasing bone loss.
A high intake of dietary calcium through out life helps reduce the risk of osteoporosis. The amount of calcium available to the body depends not only on how much is consumed, but on the body's ability to absorb calcium and retain it. As soymilk contains significantly less calcium than cow's milk; calcium is often added as a fortificant, but it is unclear whether this added calcium is well absorbed. Soybeans, like other legumes contain myo-inositol hexaphosphate (IP6), also known as phytate, that can chelate calcium inhibiting its absorption. Fermenting soy milk with certain lactic acid bacteria can reduce the amount of IP6. These microorganisms produce the enzyme, phytase which hydrolyses IP6 to its lower IPs including; myo-inositol pentaphosphate (IP5), IP4, IP3 and IP1. Furthermore, fermenting soy milk with lactic acid bacteria increases the conversion of isoflavones to the biologically active aglycone form. These biologically active soy isoflavones have important actions in decreasing bone loss.
This review brings together and discusses the significance of existing information about water-soluble (small molecule) organic phosphate constituents of red blood cells in different vertebrate species, with emphasis on 2,3 diphosphoglycerate (DPG), inositol pentaphosphate (IP5) ATP and guanosine triphosphate (GTP), compounds which may play an important role in respiratory physiology by modifying the affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen. Results on the distribution and concentration of these compounds in red cells of vertebrate animals can be summarized as follows 1) DPG High in mammals (except cats and ruminants) Absent in crocodilians squamata and fishes. High briefly in the bird embryo absent in adult. High briefly in turtle embryo low in juvenile low to absent in adult 2 IP5 . High in birds. Absent in mammals, crocodilians squamata and fishes (with the exception of Arapaima gigas ). Low in turtles 3 ATP Intermediate in mammals. High in birds and turtles. Very high in squamata Intermediate to very high in fishes. Low in crocodilians 4) GTP Very low in mammals birds, reptiles and amphibians (except for small pool in Rana tadpole). Low to very high in fishes.
Abstract Inositol pentaphosphate (IPP), a characteristic component of avian erythrocytes (RBC), has been found for the first time in teleost. IPP is present in the erythrocytes of a freshwater air-breathing fish, Piraracu, at a level of 1.8 μmoles per ml RBC, representing 39.0 per cent of the total cell phosphate. Guanosine triphosphate (GTP) represents 22.0 per cent of the cell phosphate.
The effects of 2, 3-diphosphoglyceric acid (2, 3-DPG), adenosine triphosphate (ATP), inositol tetraphosphate (ITP), inositol pentaphosphate (IPP), and inositol hexaphosphate (IHP) on oxygen affinity of whole stripped hemoglobin (WSH), hemoglobin H (Hb-H; hatching hemoglobin), hemoglobin A (Hb-A), and hemoglobin D (Hb-D) isolated from erythrocytes (RBC) of the 25-day turkey embryo have been studied. The order of the decrease in oxygen affinity induced by these organic phosphates, at molar ratios of phosphate compound to hemoglobin (tetramer) between 2 and 4, is 2, 3-DPG less than ATP less than ITP less than IPP less than IHP. 2, 3-DPG shows a slightly greater effect on reducing oxygen affinity of Hb-H than on either adult-type hemoglobin. The effect of IPP upon lowering the oxygen affinity of either WSH, Hb-H, Hb-A, or Hb-D is approximately 20 percent less than IHP. The effects of the various organic phosphates upon the Hill constant, n, of these purified hemoglobins is variable but appears to reach a maximum when the molar ratio of organic phosphate to hemoglobin (tetramer) is 2 or greater. None of the physiologically occurring organic phosphates has a significant preferential interaction with any specific hemoglobin. These experiments strengthen and support our earlier conclusion, that the changes in whole blood oxygen affinity which occur during avian development result from the changes in composition of the intraerythrocytic organic phosphates.
The alpha- and beta-chains of the main component of hemoglobin of the greylag goose (Anser anser) were isolated. For determination of the primary structure of hemoglobin, the chains were cleaved and the cleavage products isolated. The chains and peptides were degraded automatically in the sequenator: the complete primary structure of the alpha-and beta-chains was obtained and compared with the human adult hemoglobin. Comparison with human sequences show 1 substitutions in the alpha-chain and 44 in beta-chain. The mutations are discussed. The alpha-chains contain no tryptophan, only one methionine and two cysteines. Seven alpha 1 beta 1-contacts and one alpha 1 beta 2-oxy- and deoxy-contact are altered. In the beta-chains two acidic amino acids are eliminated. This is probably the reason for the more basic character of the greylag goose hemoglobin. The contact points of the allosteric effector (inositol pentaphosphate in case of birds, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in case of mamals) with the beta-chains are identical in chicken and greylag goose, two more than in the human beta-chains. Six alpha 1 beta 1-contacts and one hem-contact are changed. This work forms a basis to allow comparison of the functions of several bird hemoglobins and for further studies of bird hemoglobins and for further studies of evolution and systematics of birds.
Abstract In order to investigate the feasibility of a non-biological pathway for the formation of inositol polyphosphates in soil, the reaction of myo -inositol with sodium trimetaphosphate was studied. This inorganic salt was found to be capable of phosphorylating myo -inositol to the triphosphate stage. By bromine oxidation, followed by sodium borohydride reduction, the epimerization of myo -inositol pentaphosphates to the corresponding scyllo -inositol pentaphosphate and dl - chiro -inositol pentaphosphate has been demonstrated.
Abstract 1. The changes in organic phosphates of chicken erythrocytes (RBC) have been determined in relation to the changes in oxygen affinity of whole blood during growth of the embryo and chick. 2. 2,3-diphosphoglyceric acid is the major organic phosphate (42–47%) in the RBC from 15-days of incubation until hatch. The amount of 2,3-DPG during this period is ∼4–6 μmoles/cm3 RBC, decreases abruptly at hatching, and disappears from the RBC within 8 days after hatching. 3. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is the major organic phosphate (45–50%) during the first 5 days post-hatching. 4. The P50 of the whole blood during the last week of incubation and the first 5 days post-hatching correlates best with the amount of ATP in the cells. 5. The effect of inositol pentaphosphate on increasing P50 of the whole blood is more gradual and appears to become of major influence in the chick after 4–5 days post-hatching.
Abstract Inositol hexaphosphate guanosine diphosphate phosphotransferase which transfers phosphate from inositol hexaphosphate to guanosine diphosphate, synthesizing guanosine triphosphate, has been isolated from germinating mung bean. A purification of 86-fold with 33% recovery has been obtained and the protein was made homogeneous after polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The MW of this enzyme was ca 92000. The optimal pH was 7·0 and Mn 2+ was stimulatory. Inositol hexaphosphate was the most active donor of the phosphoryl group (P) to GDP. Inositol penta- or tetra-phosphate (mixed) was partially active, but inositol pentaphosphate produced in this reaction did not act further as phosphate donor. The transfer of P from inositol hexaphosphate was mediated through a phosphoprotein. Polyphosphate (poly Pi), pyrophosphate (PPi) and orthophosphate (Pi) were inactive in this reaction. ADP, CDP and UDP could not substitute for GDP, neither could dGDP nor GMP accept P from inositolphosphate. GTP inhibited the reaction, but ATP did not interfere with the reaction. The products have been shown to be [GMP- 32 P] and inositol pentaphosphate by several criteria. The reaction is practically irreversible. K m values for GDP and inositol hexaphosphate were 1·1 × 10 −4 M and 1·6 × 10 −6 M respectively.
A method to determine the concentration of inositol pentaphosphate (IP5) in chicken erythrocytes is described. Lysates of washed erythrocytes were treated with trichloroacetic acid to remove protein and were chromatographed on Dowex-1 chloride columns. After eluting the other organic phosphates with .3 N HCl, IP5 was eluted with .5 N HCl and quantitated by phosphorus assay. The mean for 12 chickens was 15.4 +/- 2.71 micromoles/g hemoglobin. The method should be useful for the assay of large numbers of samples.
Chicken red bloods cells (RBCs) were used as a model for cell survival following hyperthermia of differentiated cells, with rat RBCs serving as controls. The purpose was to investigate whether cells heated at 51·5°C with or without prior heat shock exhibited discernible differences in phosphorus metabolites, intracellular pH or Mg2+ using 31P nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. The biochemical differences that distinguished the heat-shocked from the non-heat-shocked chicken cells were: (1) a decrease in intensity of the low and wide (300 Hz) resonance that underlies the high resolution signals and which arises from the partially mobile membrane phospholipids, suggesting that membrane fluidity was decreased during the induction of thermotolerance; and (2) a time-dependent leftward shift of the peak representing the 4,6P of inositol pentaphosphate together with a broadening of all of the 31P peaks during heat-shock and heat challenge, which persisted after return to the control temperature. This is con...
Iron absorption was measured from five kinds of bread made from various types of flour and fermented in different ways in order to obtain a wide variation in the content of fiber, phytate (inositol hexaphosphate) and its degradation products, inorganic phosphate and inositol phosphates with fewer numbers of phosphate groups (inositol pentaphosphate through monophosphate). Each experiment had 9-10 subjects and, in each subject, iron absorption was measured from control rolls made from low extraction wheat flour and one kind of test roll using two different radioiron tracers: 55Fe and 59Fe. The inhibition of iron absorption was closely related to the content of phytate-phosphorous as determined using the AOAC method, and to the sum of the tri- through hexaphosphate groups as determined using the HPLC method. As an example, prolonged fermentation of whole-rye bread reduced total inositol phosphates to the same amount as in the control rolls and increased fractional iron absorption to the same high level, in spite of a fiber content five times as great. The results strongly suggest that the inhibitory effect of bran on iron absorption is due to its content of phytate and other inositol phosphates present after fermentation, rather than to its content of fiber or other constituents. Thus, effective fermentation will increase the bioavailability of iron in whole-meal bread.
An apparatus is described for the separation of the four isomeric myoinositol pentaphosphates by moving paper electrophoresis (MPE). The apparatus permits separations over distances of one meter or more with a voltage gradient of 35 V/cm. The ratio of distances of migration of the four myoinositol pentaphosphates to inorganic pyrophosphate were found to be: α 1.21; β 1.18; γ 1.12; δ 1.08. The ratio for cereal grain phytic acid was 1.26. A tentative assignment gives the following O-myoinositol pentaphosphate structures: α, 1,3,4,5,6-; β, ±1,2,4,5,6-; γ, ±1,2,3,4,5-; and δ, 1,2,3,4,6-.
ABSTRACT Iron absorption was measured from five kinds of bread made from various types of flour and fermented in different ways in order to obtain a wide variation in the content of fiber, phytate (inositol hexaphosphate) and its degradation products, inorganic phosphate and inositol phosphates with fewer numbers of phosphate groups (inositol pentaphosphate through monophosphate). Each experiment had 9-10 subjects and, in each subject, iron absorption was measured from control rolls made from low extraction wheat flour and one kind of test roll using two different radioiron tracers: 55pe and^Fe. 7he inhibition of iron absorption was closely related to the content of phytate-phosphorous as determined using the AOAC method, and to the sum of the tri-through hexaphosphate groups as determined using the HPLC method. As an example, prolonged fer mentation of whole-rye bread reduced total inositol phosphates to the same amount as in the control rolls and increased fractional iron absorption to the same high level, in spite of a fiber content five times as great. The results strongly suggest that the inhibitory effect of bran on iron absorption is due to its content of phytate and other inositol phosphates present after fermenta tion, rather than to its content of fiber or other constitu ents. Thus, effective fermentation will increase the bioavailability of iron in whole-meal bread. J. Nutr. 122: 442-449, 1992.
The interaction of three inositol esters, inositol hexaphosphate (IHP), inositol pentaphosphate (IPP), and inositol hexasulfate (IHS), with hemoglobin has been investigated. The proton uptake method was used to obtain the six binding constants for deoxy- and oxyhemoglobin. These data combined with oxygen binding curves over a range of cofactor concentrations were used to test theoretical and empirical equations relating the affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen and allosteric effectors. The Bohr and Haldane coefficients in the presence of the inositol esters are unequal at low, but not at high, concentration of the cofactors. The maximum value reached by both parameters increases with the number of negative charges of the polyanion. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate (DPG) differs sharply from the inositol esters since even at high concentrations of this cofactor, the Haldane coefficient remains elevated. This is a reflection of the negligible affinity of DPG for fully oxygenated hemoglobin.
Abstract An inositol pentaphosphate has been found to be present in high concentration in red cells of a number of species of birds examined and is thought to be a major control of the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin. to facilitate further studies on the distribution, function, and metabolism of inositol polyphosphates in red cells of birds and other vertebrates, improved methods were developed for their isolation by ion-exchange column chromatography, for their hydrolysis to free inositol from the isolated phosphates, and for colorimetric analysis of the free inositol. Examples are given of the inositol phosphates found in red cells of a duck, an ostrich, the Pseudemys turtle, a fish (Arapaima gigas), commercial inositol hexaphosphate, corn seeds, and corn seedlings.
