As part of our efforts to use biosynthetic approaches to generate novel aminocyclitol analogs, we have identified the biosynthetic gene cluster of 1 in S. hygroscopicus subsp. jinggangensis 5008 (Bai et al. 2006) . A 45-kb sequence of DNA fragment containing the gene cluster revealed 16 structural genes, two regulatory genes, five genes related to transport, transposition/integration, tellurium resistance, and another four genes with no obvious identity. One of the essential genes for validamycin A biosynthesis is valN, which encodes protein homologous with the zinc-dependent sorbitol dehydrogenase from Geobacillus thermodenitrificans NG80-2 (28% identity, 45% similarity) and the alcohol dehydrogenase from Prosthecochloris vibrioformis DSM 265 (29% identity, 42% similarity). Both sorbitol and alcohol dehydrogenases are NAD + -dependent enzymes that catalyze the oxidation of an alcohol to a ketone. ValN also shares conserved domains with other dehydrogenase proteins, such as the shikimate 5-dehydrogenases and the ketopantoate reductases, which catalyze the conversions of shikimate to 5-dehydroshikimate and (R)-pantoate to 2-dehydropantoate, respectively. To investigate the function of valN in validamycin A biosynthesis, we inactivated the valN gene in S. hygroscopicus 5008 and analyzed the metabolite profile of the mutant. We discovered that the mutant strain lacks the ability to produce validamycin A, but instead produces two new secondary metabolites, which can be used as alternative sources of valienamine. Herein, we report the construction of the valN mutant, isolation and structure elucidation of the new metabolites, their antifungal activity, and their efficient conversion to valienamine.
In our previous study, we used the same microarray dataset and extracted discriminate patterns of highly connected regions in the network [26] . In comparison to the present study here, we got a good consistency of the extracted pathways (glycolysis, aspartate metabolism, formate fermentation, pyruvate metabolism). In the study presented here, we elucidated some new pathways, i.e. the histidine biosynthesis, enterobactin biosynthesis (oxidative stress response), the aerobic part of the TCA cycle, and hexoses and one-carbon-units processing. It is of note that histidine biosynthesis and the biosynthesis of enterobactin are linear chains in the network. In contrast to the previous method, such linear chains can be well recognised by the method we present here which couples pairs of nodes. However, the previous method recognised two interesting, highly-connected regions which were not indicated using our new method (the interface between glycolysis and NAD biosynthesis, and the biosynthesis of lysine, see [26] ). Two observed switches remain explainable. One switch (switch 19) consisted of 3-hydroxy acid dehydrogenase and phosphoserine phosphatase. In the second case (switch 5) up-regulated 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoate hydroxymethyltransferase and down-regulated 2-dehydropantoate reductase directly followed the up-regulated reaction in the biosynthesis of pantothenate. These results may reveal an incomplete understanding of these metabolic components and the need for further experimental investigation.
Several genes encoding other factors in the metabolism of P. gingivalis were also regulated. Thus, genes encoding anabolic proteins such as PG1271, involved in arginine biosynthesis (acetylornithine aminotransferase); PG2205, encoding 2-dehydropantoate 2-reductase; PanE (Table 1) , which mediates pantothenate synthesis ( Supplementary  Fig. S3a) ; PG0653, encoding a protein that belongs to the SerB family and has a role in the serine biosynthesis pathway; PG0030, encoding cytidine deaminase, involved in salvage pathways of pyrimidine deoxyribonucleotides ( Supplementary Fig. S3b) ; PG1123, encoding PurB; and PG1129, encoding Nrd, were upregulated (the last two mediate the de novo biosynthesis of purine nucleotides; Supplementary Fig. S3b ). As expected, PG1541, encoding FolK, a member of the tetrahydrofolate biosynthesis pathway, was also upregulated (Table 1, Supplementary  Fig. S3c, d ). Finally, PG1042, which encodes a putative glycogen synthase, was upregulated (Table 1) . This indicates that energy storage is an important strategy under aerobic conditions. The expression of PG1614, which encodes fumarate reductase, the major enzyme that plays a role in anaerobic metabolism, was unaffected. This indicates that under microaerophilic conditions both aerobic and anaerobic modes of metabolism may function. However, PG0690, which encodes 4-hydroxybutyrate coenzyme A transferase, was slightly downregulated (ratio 0.8, results not shown). This transferase mediates the catabolism of glutamate to butyrate (Takahashi et al., 2000) . Other downregulated genes included those mediating the biosynthesis of NAD from aspartate: PG0058, encoding nicotinate (nicotinamide) nucleotide adenylyltransferase (NadD), and PG1576, encoding L-aspartate oxidase (NadB) ( Table 2 , Fig. 2 and Supplementary Fig. S3f ). PG1829, encoding a putative long-chain fatty acid CoA ligase, was also downregulated ( Table 2 ), indicating that fatty acid b-oxidation is also reduced in aerobically grown bacteria ( Supplementary Fig.  S3f ). Finally, PG1067, encoding a hypothetical protein possibly involved in lysine fermentation to acetate and butyrate, was downregulated (Supplementary Table S2 , Supplementary Fig. S3f ).
Pantoate-β-alanine ligase; catalyzes the formation of (R)-pantothenate from pantoate and β-alanine panB (Cj0298c) 3-Methyl-2-oxobutanoate hydroxymethyltransferase; catalyzes the formation of tetrahydrofolate and 2-dehydropantoate from 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate and 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoate Cj0299
Supplementation of PROB improved the energy status of the beef steers by increasing the relative concentrations of plasma monosaccharides such as glucose, galactose, fructose, and glyceraldehyde, as well as others (hippuric acid, phenylacetylglycine, and 5-hydroxykynurenamine) with possible health benefits. In contrast, the relative concentration of acetoacetate was reduced. The significance of some metabolites, notably 5-oxopentanoate, isomer of (S)-2-aceto-2-hydroxybutanoate, isomer of (S)-3-methyl-2-oxopentanoic acid, 3-(4-hydroxyphenyl)pyruvate, (S)-2-aceto-2-hydroxybutanoate, (R)-3-hydroxy-3-methyl-2-oxopentanoate, and 2-dehydropantoate that showed positive correlations with performance measures merits further evaluation in future studies. Supplementation of PROB alters the fecal bacterial population towards increased relative abundance of Prevotellaceae UCG-003 and some.
BackgroundGenome evolution in intracellular microbial symbionts is characterized by gene loss, generating some of the smallest and most gene-poor genomes known. As a result of gene loss these genomes commonly contain metabolic pathways that are fragmented relative to their free-living relatives. The evolutionary retention of fragmented metabolic pathways in the gene-poor genomes of endosymbionts suggests that they are functional. However, it is not always clear how they maintain functionality. To date, the fragmented metabolic pathways of endosymbionts have been shown to maintain functionality through complementation by host genes, complementation by genes of another endosymbiont and complementation by genes in host genomes that have been horizontally acquired from a microbial source that is not the endosymbiont. Here, we demonstrate a fourth mechanism.ResultsWe investigate the evolutionary retention of a fragmented pathway for the essential nutrient pantothenate (vitamin B5) in the pea aphid, Acyrthosiphon pisum endosymbiosis with Buchnera aphidicola. Using quantitative analysis of gene expression we present evidence for complementation of the Buchnera pantothenate biosynthesis pathway by host genes. Further, using complementation assays in an Escherichia coli mutant we demonstrate functional replacement of a pantothenate biosynthesis enzyme, 2-dehydropantoate 2-reductase (E.C. 1.1.1.169), by an endosymbiont gene, ilvC, encoding a substrate ambiguous enzyme.ConclusionsEarlier studies have speculated that missing enzyme steps in fragmented endosymbiont metabolic pathways are completed by adaptable endosymbiont enzymes from other pathways. Here, we experimentally demonstrate completion of a fragmented endosymbiont vitamin biosynthesis pathway by recruitment of a substrate ambiguous enzyme from another pathway. In addition, this work extends host/symbiont metabolic collaboration in the aphid/Buchnera symbiosis from amino acid metabolism to include vitamin biosynthesis.
Results: We investigate the evolutionary retention of a fragmented pathway for the essential nutrient pantothenate (vitamin B5) in the pea aphid, Acyrthosiphon pisum endosymbiosis with Buchnera aphidicola. Using quantitative analysis of gene expression we present evidence for complementation of the Buchnera pantothenate biosynthesis pathway by host genes. Further, using complementation assays in an Escherichia coli mutant we demonstrate functional replacement of a pantothenate biosynthesis enzyme, 2-dehydropantoate 2-reductase (E.C. 1.1.1.169), by an endosymbiont gene, ilvC, encoding a substrate ambiguous enzyme.
OSW2 is a meiotically-induced gene required for spore wall formation. osw2Δ spores are sensitive to ether treatment. Except for this phenotype, the mutants do not show obvious sporulation defects; thus, its function remains elusive. We found that deletion of both OSW2 and CHS3 results in a synthetic sporulation defect. The spore wall is composed of four layers, and chs3Δ spores lack the outer two (chitosan and dityrosine) layers. Thus, Osw2 is involved in the assembly of the inner (glucan and mannan) layers. In agreement with this notion, a glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored protein reporter mislocalizes in osw2Δ spores. The osw2Δ mutation also exhibited a severe synthetic sporulation defect when combined with the deletion of a ß-1,6-glucan synthesis-related gene, BIG1. Osw2 is localized to the prospore membrane during sporulation. However, it disappears in mature spores, indicating that it is not a structural component of the spore wall. Given that Osw2 contains a probable 2-dehydropantoate 2-reductase domain, it may mediate an enzymatic reaction. Osw2 shows a weak similarity to other 2-dehydropantoate 2-reductase domain-containing proteins, Svl3 and Pam1. A pam1Δsvl3Δ mutant exhibits vegetative cell and spore wall defects. Thus, the 2-dehydropantoate 2-reductase domain-containing proteins may have a similar function in glucan and/or mannan layer assembly.
Microorganisms respond to a variety of metabolic perturbations by repurposing or recruiting pathways to reroute metabolic flux and overcome the perturbation. Elimination of the 2-dehydropantoate 2-reductase, PanE, both reduces total coenzyme A (CoA) levels and causes a conditional HMP-P auxotrophy in Salmonella enterica. CoA or acetyl-CoA has no demonstrable effect on the HMP-P synthase, ThiC, in vitro. Suppressors aimed at probing the connection between the biosynthesis of thiamine and CoA contained mutations in the gene encoding the ilvC transcriptional regulator, ilvY. These mutations may help inform the structure and mechanism of action for the effector-binding domain, as they represent the first sequenced substitutions in the effector-binding domain of IlvY that cause constitutive expression of ilvC. Since IlvC moonlights as a 2-dehydropantoate 2-reductase, the resultant increase in ilvC transcription increased synthesis of CoA. This study failed to identify mutations overcoming the need for CoA for thiamine synthesis in S. enterica panE mutants, suggesting that a more integrated approach may be necessary to uncover the mechanism connecting CoA and ThiC activity in vivo.
Microorganisms respond to a variety of metabolic perturbations by repurposing or recruiting pathways to reroute metabolic flux and overcome the perturbation. Elimination of the 2-dehydropantoate 2-reductase, PanE, both reduces total coenzyme A (CoA) levels and causes a conditional HMP-P auxotrophy in Salmonella enterica. CoA or acetyl-CoA has no demonstrable effect on the HMP-P synthase, ThiC, in vitro. Suppressors aimed at probing the connection between the biosynthesis of thiamine and CoA contained mutations in the gene encoding the ilvC transcriptional regulator, ilvY. These mutations may help inform the structure and mechanism of action for the effector-binding domain, as they represent the first sequenced substitutions in the effector-binding domain of IlvY that cause constitutive expression of ilvC. Since IlvC moonlights as a 2-dehydropantoate 2-reductase, the resultant increase in ilvC transcription increased synthesis of CoA. This study failed to identify mutations overcoming the need for CoA for thiamine synthesis in S. enterica panE mutants, suggesting that a more integrated approach may be necessary to uncover the mechanism connecting CoA and ThiC activity in vivo.
The biosynthetic pathway for coenzyme A (CoA) shares several features with that of thiamine biosynthesis. Specifically, each pathway produces an essential nutrient, and the flux of carbon and energy required for both products is significantly lower than that of the pathways they derive precursors from (purine and branched chain amino acids, respectively) (Fig 1) [4, 6] . A lesion eliminating the primary 2-dehydropantoate 2-reductase in Salmonella enterica, PanE (EC: 1.1.1.169), results in severe reduction in total CoA levels, but does not generate a supplementation requirement for growth [7] . The residual production of CoA in the panE mutants is due to the activity of a redundant 2-dehydropantoate 2-reductase activity inherent in ketol-acid reductoisomerase (IlvC; EC: 1.1.1.86), an enzyme required for branched-chain amino acid biosynthesis [8] . Thus, a panE mutant maintains~10% of wild type CoA levels, which is sufficient for prototrophic growth [7] .
Abstract Escherichia coli was engineered to produce d -pantothenic acid via systematic metabolic engineering. Firstly, genes of acetohydroxy acid synthase II, pantothenate synthetase, 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoate hydroxymethyltransferase, 2-dehydropantoate 2-reductase and ketol-acid reductoisomerase were edited in E. coli W3110 with a resulting d -pantothenic acid yield of 0.49 g/L. Expressions of valine-pyruvate aminotransferase and branched-chain-amino-acid aminotransferase were then attenuated to decrease the carbon flux in l -valine biosynthetic pathway which is a competing pathway to the d -pantothenic acid biosynthetic pathway, and the yield increased to 1.48 g/L. Mutagenesis of pantothenate kinase and deletion of threonine deaminase further increased the production to 1.78 g/L. Overexpressions of panC and panB from Corynebacterium glutamicum enhanced the production by 29%. In fed-batch fermentations, strain DPA-9/pTrc99a-panBC(C.G) exhibited a highest d -pantothenic acid yield of 28.45 g/L. The findings in this study demonstrate the systematic metabolic engineering in Escherichia coli W3110 would be a promising strategy for industrial production of d -pantothenic acid.
Pantothenate, commonly referred to as vitamin B5, is an essential molecule in the metabolism of living organisms and forms the core of coenzyme A. Unlike humans, some bacteria and plants are capable of de novo biosynthesis of pantothenate, making this pathway a potential target for drug development. Francisella tularensis subsp. tularensis Schu S4 is a zoonotic bacterial pathogen that is able to synthesize pantothenate but is lacking the known ketopantoate reductase (KPR) genes, panE and ilvC, found in the canonical Escherichia coli pathway. Described herein is a gene encoding a novel KPR, for which we propose the name panG (FTT1388), which is conserved in all sequenced Francisella species and is the sole KPR in Schu S4. Homologs of this KPR are present in other pathogenic bacteria such as Enterococcus faecalis, Coxiella burnetii, and Clostridium difficile. Both the homologous gene from E. faecalis V583 (EF1861) and E. coli panE functionally complemented Francisella novicida lacking any KPR. Furthermore, panG from F. novicida can complement an E. coli KPR double mutant. A Schu S4 ΔpanG strain is a pantothenate auxotroph and was genetically and chemically complemented with panG in trans or with the addition of pantolactone. There was no virulence defect in the Schu S4 ΔpanG strain compared to the wild type in a mouse model of pneumonic tularemia. In summary, we characterized the pantothenate pathway in Francisella novicida and F. tularensis and identified an unknown and previously uncharacterized KPR that can convert 2-dehydropantoate to pantoate, PanG.
