D-ornithine 4,5-aminomutase (OAM) from Clostridium sticklandii converts D-ornithine to 2,4-diaminopentanoic acid by way of radical propagation from an adenosylcobalamin (AdoCbl) to a pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (PLP) cofactor. We have solved OAM crystal structures in different catalytic states that together demonstrate unusual stability of the AdoCbl Co-C bond and that radical catalysis is coupled to large-scale domain motion. The 2.0-A substrate-free enzyme crystal structure reveals the Rossmann domain, harboring the intact AdoCbl cofactor, is tilted toward the edge of the PLP binding triose-phosphate isomerase barrel domain. The PLP forms an internal aldimine link to the Rossmann domain through Lys(629), effectively locking the enzyme in this "open" pre-catalytic conformation. The distance between PLP and 5'-deoxyadenosyl group is 23 A, and large-scale domain movement is thus required prior to radical catalysis. The OAM crystals contain two Rossmann domains within the asymmetric unit that are unconstrained by the crystal lattice. Surprisingly, the binding of various ligands to OAM crystals (in an oxygen-free environment) leads to transimination in the absence of significant reorientation of the Rossmann domains. In contrast, when performed under aerobic conditions, this leads to extreme disorder in the latter domains correlated with the loss of the 5'-deoxyadenosyl group. Our data indicate turnover and hence formation of the "closed" conformation is occurring within OAM crystals, but that the equilibrium is poised toward the open conformation. We propose that substrate binding induces large-scale domain motion concomitant with a reconfiguration of the 5'-deoxyadenosyl group, triggering radical catalysis in OAM.
The possibility of forming a peptide boronate adduct in a serine protease active site that mimics the first tetrahedral intermediate in the peptide hydrolysis mechanism was explored with the complex boronic acid analogs 7, 8-OH, and 8-NH(2)(). In these structures, the P(1) and P(2) residues and the P(1)'-P(3)' residues are connected through the P(2) and P(1)' side chains, to encourage formation of the diester or amide-ester adducts via macrocyclization. These inhibitors were assembled from suitably protected derivatives of 2,4-diaminobutanoic acid or 2,4-diaminopentanoic acid (11), borophenylalanine (12), aspartic acid, malic acid or the substituted malic acid analog 13, and Leu-Arg dipeptide. Stereoselective syntheses were developed for the (S,S)-2,4-diaminopentanoate 11 and for the (S,S)-beta-isobutylmalate 13 derivatives. The complex peptidyl boronates 7 (K(i) = 26 nM) and 8-OH (68 nM) are potent inhibitors of alpha-chymotrypsin; however, the affinity of 7 is neither time- nor pH-dependent, and it is only moderately greater than that found for comparison compounds like 8-H (114 nM), 9 (356 nM), and 10 (219 nM) that cannot cyclize or form a diester adduct.
Abbreviations. The abbreviations used here are as follows: PLP, pyridoxal 5Ј-phosphate; AdoCbl, adenosylcobalamin; DAPA, 2,4-diaminopentanoic acid; HPLC, high-pressure liquid chromatography.
Abstract An extract of Clostridium sticklandii converts d- and l-ornithine by a number of enzymatic steps to 2-amino-4-ketopentanoic acid. Except for an initial conversion of l- to d-ornithine, all subsequent changes appear to occur at the distal amino group. In the first of these reactions, which requires the participation of vitamin B12 coenzyme, the C5-amino group of d-ornithine moves to C4 to form one of the epimeric forms of the corresponding 2,4-diaminopentanoic acid. The second enzymatic step, which requires the participation of pyridoxal phosphate, most probably entails inversion of the C4-amino group. The resulting 2,4-diaminopentanoic acid has been purified by chromatography on Dowex 50 and studied by nuclear magnetic resonance and infrared spectroscopy, by measurement of optical rotation, and by pH titration. In the third reaction, a pyridine nucleotide-linked dehydrogenase brings about an oxidative deamination of the amino group at C4 to yield 2-amino-4-ketopentanoic acid. This dehydrogenase has been purified about 44-fold from extracts of C. sticklandii. Both DPN+ and TPN+ can function as hydrogen acceptors. The reaction product has been purified and identified as 2-amino-4-ketopentanoic acid. The enzyme is highly specific for 2,4-diaminopentanoic acid. No cofactors appear to be necessary. Optimum activity is obtained at a pH of about 8.8. Tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane buffer appears to be slightly inhibitory. The equilibrium strongly favors the oxidized pyridine nucleotide.
D-Ornithine aminomutase from Clostridium sticklandii catalyzes the reversible rearrangement of d-ornithine to (2R,4S)-2,4-diaminopentanoic acid. The two genes encoding d-ornithine aminomutase have been cloned, sequenced, and expressed in Escherichia coli. The oraS gene, which encodes a protein of 121 amino acid residues with M(r) 12,800, is situated upstream of the oraE gene, which encodes a protein of 753 amino acid residues with M(r) 82,900. The holoenzyme appears to comprise a alpha(2)beta(2)-heterotetramer. OraS shows no significant homology to other proteins in the Swiss-Prot data base. The deduced amino acid sequence of OraE includes a conserved base-off/histidine-on cobalamin-binding motif, DXHXXG. OraE was expressed in E. coli as inclusion bodies. Refolding experiments on OraE indicate that the interactions between OraS and OraE and the binding of either pyridoxal phosphate or adenosylcobalamin play important roles in refolding process. The K(m) values for d-ornithine, 5'-deoxyadenosylcobalamin (AdoCbl), and pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (PLP) are 44.5 +/- 2.8, 0.43 +/- 0.04, and 1.5 +/- 0.1 microm, respectively; the k(cat) is 6.3 +/- 0.1 s(-1). The reaction was absolutely dependent upon OraE, OraS, AdoCbl, PLP, and D-ornithine being present in the assay; no other cofactors were required. A red-shift in UV-visible absorption spectrum is observed when free adenosylcobinamide is bound by recombinant D-ornithine aminomutase and no significant change in spectrum when free adenosylcobinamide is bound by mutant OraE-H618G, demonstrating that the enzyme binds adenosylcobalamin in base-off/histidine-on mode.
The reduced Schiff bases of salicylaldehyde [and o-vanillin (o-van)] with D,L- and L-diaminopropionic acid (DPA), designated by salDPA, and L-2,4-diaminopentanoic acid [ornithine (Orn)], designated by salOrn, as well as the VIVO2+ and VVO2+ complexes of salDPA were prepared. The compounds were characterised in the solid state and in solution. The structure of H4salDPA+Cl– was determined by X-ray diffraction. Complexation of VIVO2+ and VVO2+ with salDPA and salOrn (only the VIVO system) in aqueous solution was studied by potentiometry, UV/Visible spectroscopy and circular dichroism, as well as by EPR spectroscopy for the VIVO–salDPA system and by 1H- and 51V NMR spectroscopy for the VVO2–salDPA system. Stoichiometries and complex formation constants were determined by potentiometry at 25 °C and I = 0.2 M KCl. Practically only 1:1 complexes were formed in both systems with composition (VO)LH2 and(VO)L in the VIVO–salDPA system, and with composition(VO2)LH and (VO2)L in the VVO2–salDPA system. Spectroscopic data provided information about the most probable binding modes of each stoichiometry. (© Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, 69451 Weinheim, Germany, 2006)
The presence of vanadium in biological systems, its insulin-enhancing action [1] [2] [3] [4] and anticancer activity [5] [6] [7] has driven a considerable amount of research. Particular interest has been given to the study of the potential benefits of vanadium compounds as oral insulin substitutes for the treatment of diabetes. [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] Coordinated ligands should be able to improve the absorption and possibly the transport of vanadium to the cells, reducing the dose necessary for producing an equivalent effect. Several vanadium complexes of the dianionic tetradentate Schiff base salen (N,NЈ-disalicylideneethylenediamine)-type ligands have been pro posed for use as insulin-enhancing agents, and for treatment of obesity and hypertension. [13] [14] [15] Durai and Saminathan [13] reported the ability of V IV O(salen) to reverse the hyperglycemic condition of alloxan-induced diabetic rats to near normal, thereby exerting insulin-like action. However, rats tended to become hypoglycemic, and withdrawal of treatment brought about an immediate return of the hyperglycemia. Oxidovanadium(IV) complexes of hydroxysalen derivatives have also been reported to possess nuclease activity in the presence of an activating agent (mercaptopropionic acid or Oxone). [16] Salen-type ligands present versatile steric, electronic and lipophilic properties. They may be easily prepared by the condensation of two compounds: (i) an aromatic o-hydroxyaldehyde and (ii) a diamine, the hydrophilic-lipophilic balance being easily fine-tuned by choosing the appropriate amine precursors and ring substituents of the aldehyde. However, Schiff base (SB) ligands have the disadvantage that they hydrolyse in solution. This instability can be overcome by the reduction of the SB to give an amine, i.e. ligands often designated as salan compounds. This presents interesting possibilities, as the reduced SB will be more flexible and not restrained to remain planar when coordinated to a metal centre. Moreover, some of the V complexes with salan ligands have been shown to be several orders of magnitude more stable than the corresponding salen compounds. [15, 17] We report the preparation of salan compounds derived from the condensation of salicylaldehyde [in one case also of o-vanillin (o-van)] with ,-and -diaminopropionic acid (DPA), -2,4-diaminopentanoic acid (-ornithine) and -2,5-diamino-hexanoic acid (-lysine), which are designated by salDPA (1), salOrn (2) and salLys (3) , respectively, and the preparation of V IV O-and V V O 2 -salDPA complexes. The compounds were characterised in the solid state and in solution. The molecular formulas of two of the salan compounds prepared (salDPA and salOrn) are depicted in Scheme 1. Scheme 1. Molecular formulae of two of the ligands prepared. Those of salLys (3) and vanDPA (4) are represented in the Supporting Information. The totally protonated compound 1 corresponds to H 5 salDPA 2+ . We obtained two different solid compounds: H 3 salDPA (1) and H 4 salDPA + Cl -(1A). When designating these and the other salan compounds obtained in this work without specific attention to their protonation state, we will omit the protonation state, e.g. we will normally designate 1 as salDPA.
Abstract We report an analysis of the reaction mechanism of ornithine 4,5-aminomutase, an adenosylcobalamin (AdoCbl)- and pyridoxal l-phosphate (PLP)-dependent enzyme that catalyzes the 1,2-rearrangement of the terminal amino group of d-ornithine to generate (2R,4S)-2,4-diaminopentanoic acid. We show by stopped-flow absorbance studies that binding of the substrate d-ornithine or the substrate analogue d-2,4-diaminobutryic acid (DAB) induces rapid homolysis of the AdoCbl Co–C bond (781 s–1, d-ornithine; 513 s–1, DAB). However, only DAB results in the stable formation of a cob(II)alamin species. EPR spectra of DAB and [2,4,4-2H3]DAB bound to holo-ornithine 4,5-aminomutase suggests strong electronic coupling between cob(II)alamin and a radical form of the substrate analog. Loading of substrate/analogue onto PLP (i.e. formation of an external aldimine) is also rapid (532 s–1, d-ornithine; 488 s–1, DAB). In AdoCbl-depleted enzyme, formation of the external aldimine occurs over long time scales (∼50 s) and occurs in three resolvable kinetic phases, identifying four distinct spectral intermediates (termed A–D). We infer that these represent the internal aldimine (λmax 416 nm; A), two different unliganded PLP states of the enzyme (λmax at 409 nm; B and C), and the external aldimine (λmax 426 nm; D). An imine linkage with d-ornithine and DAB generates both tautomeric forms of the external aldimine, but with d-ornithine the equilibrium is shifted toward the ketoimine state. The influence of this equilibrium distribution of prototropic isomers in driving homolysis and stabilizing radical intermediate states is discussed. Our work provides the first detailed analysis of radical-based catalysis in this Class III AdoCbl-dependent enzyme.
Pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (PLP), in the active site of ornithine 4,5-aminomutase (OAM), forms a Schiff base with N(δ) of the d-ornithine side chain and facilitates interconversion of the amino acid to (2R, 4S) 2,4-diaminopentanoic acid via a radical-based mechanism. The crystal structure of OAM reveals that His225 is within hydrogen bond distance to the PLP phenolic oxygen, and may influence the pK(a) of the Schiff base during radical rearrangement. To evaluate the role of His225 in radical stabilization and catalysis, the residue was substituted with a glutamine and alanine. The H225Q and H225A variants have a 3- and 10-fold reduction in catalytic turnover, respectively, and a decrease in catalytic efficiency (7-fold for both mutants). Diminished catalytic performance is not linked to an increase in radical-based side reactions leading to enzyme inactivation. pH-dependence studies show that k(cat) increases with the ionization of a functional group, but it is not attributed to His225. Binding of 2,4-diaminobutyric acid to native OAM leads to formation of an overstabilized 2,4-diaminobutyryl-PLP derived radical. In the H225A and the H225Q mutants, the radical forms and then decays, as evidenced by accumulation of cob(III)alamin. From these data, we propose that His225 enhances radical stability by acting as a hydrogen bond acceptor to the phenolic oxygen, which favors the deprotonated state of the imino nitrogen and leads to greater resonance stabilization of the 2,4-diaminobutyryl-PLP radical intermediate. The potential role of His225 in lowering the activation energy barrier to mediate PLP-dependent radical rearrangement is discussed.
A stereoselective synthesis of unusual basic amino acids, ornithine, 2,4-diaminopentanoic acid, and 2,4-diamino-6-methylheptanoic acid, was achieved by the hydrogenation of cyclic α,β-dehydro dipeptides obtained by the condensation of cyclo(–Gly–L(or D)-aminoacyl–) and protected linear or chiral amino aldehydes. The degree of chiral induction greatly depended on the bulkiness of the side chains of α,β-dehydro amino acids. The Rf values on paper chromatography of (2S,4S or 2R,4S)-diaminopentanoic acid prepared by the present method were different from the reported values of a compound which had been obtained from metabolic products of Clostridium sticklandii and estimated to be 2,4-diaminopentanoic acid.
Abstract The NAD+-NADP+-dependent 2,4-diaminopentanoic acid C4 dehydrogenase from Clostridium sticklandii has been purified to homogeneity by the criteria of disc gel electrophoresis and ultracentrifugation. The weight average molecular weight of the native enzyme as determined by high speed sedimentation equilibrium is 72,000. Sedimentation velocity indicated an s20,w of 4.47 S. Sodium dodecyl sulfate disc gel electrophoresis and high speed sedimentation in 6 m guanidine HCl established that the enzyme is composed of 2 subunits of identical size. The enzyme is sensitive to thiol inhibitors, and titration with 5,5'-dithiobis(2-nitrobenzoic acid) and p-chloromercuribenzoate demonstrated the presence of six sulfhydryl groups per mole. Amino acid analysis indicated that the enzyme contains 6 half-cystine residues per mole.
Abstract Application of the amino acid analyzer is described for the separation, identification, and estimation of several uncommon dibasic amino acids that are eluted with a 0.35 m , pH 5.28, sodium citrate buffer between lysine and ammonia, namely, 2,5-diaminohexanoate, threo - and erythro -3,5-diaminohexanoate, 3,6-diaminohexanoate (β-lysine) and 2,4-diaminopentanoic acid. Conditions are also given for estimating d - and l -β-lysine as their l -glutamyl peptides, and for estimating the enantiomers of threo - and erythro -3,5-diaminohexanoate as the l -glutamyl derivative of the corresponding lactams.
A versatile and efficient template synthesis has been developed to synthesise novel polyamines [e.g. rac-N3-(3-aminopropyl)butane-1,3-diamine, isospermidine 1] via amino acids [e.g. (2R,4S/2S,4R)-N4-(3-aminopropyl)-2,4-diaminopentanoic acid] using cobalt(III) to assemble the three precursor components in a biomimetic manner.
