Here, we report the development of a method combining a two-step derivatization procedure with LC-MS for quantitative analysis of sugar phosphates in plant extracts. The major advantage of the methodology is that reversed chromatography can be used without the need for addition of ion-pairing reagents to the mobile phase, thereby eliminating problems caused by ion-pairing reagents. This study represents the first evaluation of chemical derivatization of sugar phosphates where both reducing and non-reducing sugar phosphates can be analyzed by RP-LC-MS. The chemical derivatization strategy facilitates separation of structural isomers, such as hexose 1-phosphates and hexose 6-phosphates, which otherwise is challenging. The derivatization not only improved the chromatographic behavior on a RP column but also increased the sensitivity in negative ion ESI-MS mode. Although the focus of this study was sugar phosphates, the method could also be used for organic acids and reducing sugars. Thus, the method could be applied to a complete set of metabolites involved in energy metabolism in plants and other organisms.
The recent identification of the VTC2 enzyme (GDP-l-galactose: hexose 1-phosphate guanylyltransferase) that forms with the GDP-mannose 3″,5″ epimerase an energy-conserving hub for the production of GDP-hexoses and l-galactose 1-phosphate [Laing et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 104, 2007, 9534–9539], is a major breakthrough in our understanding of the biosynthesis of l-ascorbic acid (vitamin C) in plants. The observation that the VTC2 enzyme can use glucose 1-phosphate and GDP-d-glucose as substrates, and the long-known existence of an enigmatic GDP-d-mannose 2″-epimerase activity, have led us to the proposal of an extended VTC2 cycle that links photosynthesis with the biosynthesis of vitamin C and the cell-wall metabolism in plants. An evolutionary scenario is discussed for the acquisition of genes of eubacterial origin for the de novo synthesis of l-ascorbic acid in green algae and plants.
Beta-D-Galactopyranosyl-(1-->3)-2-acetamido-2-deoxy-D-galactose (galacto-N-biose, GNB) is an important core structure in functional sugar chains such as T-antigen disaccharide and the core 1 sugar chain in mucin glycoproteins. We successfully developed a one-pot enzymatic production of GNB from sucrose and GalNAc by the concomitant action of four enzymes: sucrose phosphorylase, UDP-glucose-hexose 1-phosphate uridylyltransferase, UDP-glucose 4-epimerase, and galacto-N-biose/lacto-N-biose I phosphorylase in the presence of UDP-glucose and phosphate, by modifying the method of lacto-N-biose I production [Nishimoto, M.; Kitaoka, M., Biosci. Biotechnol. Biochem., 2007, 71, 2101-2104]. The reaction yield of GNB was 88% from GalNAc. GNB was isolated from the reaction mixture by crystallization after yeast treatment to obtain approximately 45 g of GNB in 95% purity from a 280-mL reaction mixture.
D-Galactosyl-β1→4-L-rhamnose (GalRha) was produced enzymatically from 1.1 M sucrose and 1.0 M L-rhamnose by the concomitant actions of four enzymes (sucrose phosphorylase, UDP-glucose-hexose 1-phosphate uridylyltransferase, UDP-glucose 4-epimerase, and D-galactosyl-β1→4-L-rhamnose phosphorylase) in the presence of 1.0 mM UDP-glucose and 30 mM inorganic phosphate. The accumulation of GalRha in 1 liter of the reaction mixture reached 230 g (the reaction yield was 71% from L-rhamnose). Sucrose and fructose in the reaction mixture were removed by yeast treatment, but isolation of GalRha by crystallization after yeast treatment was unsuccessful. Finally, 49 g of GalRha was isolated from part of the reaction mixture with yeast treatment by gel-filtration chromatography.
The Leishmania parasite glycocalyx is rich in galactose-containing glycoconjugates that are synthesized by specific glycosyltransferases that use UDP-galactose as a glycosyl donor. UDP-galactose biosynthesis is thought to be predominantly a de novo process involving epimerization of the abundant nucleotide sugar UDP-glucose by the UDP-glucose 4-epimerase, although galactose salvage from the environment has been demonstrated for Leishmania major. Here, we present the characterization of an L. major UDP-sugar pyrophosphorylase able to reversibly activate galactose 1-phosphate into UDP-galactose thus proving the existence of the Isselbacher salvage pathway in this parasite. The ordered bisubstrate mechanism and high affinity of the enzyme for UTP seem to favor the synthesis of nucleotide sugar rather than their pyrophosphorolysis. Although L. major UDP-sugar pyrophosphorylase preferentially activates galactose 1-phosphate and glucose 1-phosphate, the enzyme is able to act on a variety of hexose 1-phosphates as well as pentose 1-phosphates but not hexosamine 1-phosphates and hence presents a broad in vitro specificity. The newly identified enzyme exhibits a low but significant homology with UDP-glucose pyrophosphorylases and conserved in particular is the pyrophosphorylase consensus sequence and residues involved in nucleotide and phosphate binding. Saturation transfer difference NMR spectroscopy experiments confirm the importance of these moieties for substrate binding. The described leishmanial enzyme is closely related to plant UDP-sugar pyrophosphorylases and presents a similar substrate specificity suggesting their common origin.
D-Galactosyl-1!4-L-rhamnose (GalRha) was produced enzymatically from 1.1 M sucrose and 1.0 M L-rhamnose by the concomitant actions of four enzymes (sucrose phosphorylase, UDP-glucose-hexose 1-phosphate uridylyltransferase, UDP-glucose 4-epimerase, and D-galactosyl-1!4-L-rhamnose phosphorylase) in the presence of 1.0 mM UDP-glucose and 30 mM inorganic phosphate. The accumulation of GalRha in 1 liter of the reaction mixture reached 230 g (the reaction yield was 71% from L-rhamnose). Sucrose and fructose in the reaction mixture were removed by yeast treatment, but isolation of GalRha by crystallization after yeast treatment was unsuccessful. Finally, 49 g of GalRha was isolated from part of the reaction mixture with yeast treatment by gel-filtration chromatography.
Sugar phosphate phosphohydrolase was purified approximately 500- to 600-fold to apparent homogeneity from Escherichia coli B, Escherichia coli C, Escherichia coli var. communior, Escherichia acidilactici, Enterobacter aerogenes, Neisseria meningitidis, and Saccharomyces cereviseae. The molecular weights of the enzyme as estimated by gel filtration ranged from 97 X 10(3) to 101 X 10(3). The enzyme was composed of two subunits with the same molecular weight which ranged from 50 X 10(3) to 52 X 10(3), as determined by sodium dodecyl sulfate gel electrophoresis. Homogeneous enzyme preparations hydrolyse all the tested alpha-D-aldohexose 1-phosphate, D-(keto or aldo)hexose 6-phosphate, and pentose phosphate substrates significantly. When the microorganisms were transferred from growth medium with 1% glucose to that without glucose, there were dramatic increases in both the specific and total enzyme activities. At least three isozymes appeared to be present in S. cereviseae, and two appeared to be present in E. coli B, E. coli var. communior, and N. meningitidis. Rabbit antiserum immunized against sugar phosphate phosphohydrolase purified from E. coli B cross-reacted with both the crude extracts and purified preparations of the enzyme from the other microorganisms. The presence of neither sugar phosphate phosphohydrolase activity nor immunocrossreacting material was detected in the following microorganisms: Aspergillus niger, Azotobacter chroococcum, Bacillus subtilis, Bacillus pumilis, Citrobacter freundii, Clostridium butyricum, Corynebacterium xerosis, Flavobacterium aquatile, Flavobacterium synxanthum, Lactobacillus bulgaricus, Micrococcus coralinus, Neisseria perflava, Neurospora crassa, Penicilium expansum, Penicilium notatum, Proteus mirabilis, Proteus vulgaris, Pseudomonas fluorescens, Saccharomyces fermenti, Sarcina lutea, and Streptomyces antibioticus. At present, no conclusive relationship can be established between the phosphoenolpyruvate phosphotransferase system and the enzyme sugar phosphate phosphohydrolase among microorganisms. The physiological role of sugar phosphate phosphohydrolase as a transferase and regulatory enzyme is discussed.
Symbiotic nitrogen-fixing bacteria Rhizobium leguminosarum by. viciae VF39 secrete an acidic heteropolysaccharide, the biosynthesis of which involves the stage of polyprenyl diphosphate octasaccharide formation, with its carbohydrate fragment corresponding to the repeating polymer unit. The amino acid analysis of the product of the pssA gene, we have earlier identified, showed its homology to bacterial polyisoprenyl phosphate hexose 1-phosphate transferases catalyzing the formation of phosphodiester bonds between polyprenyl phosphates and hexose 1-phosphates, whose donors are nucleotide sugars. The immunoblotting demonstrated that Rhizobium cells synthesize a protein with a molecular mass of 25 kDa, which implies the translation of the open reading frame occurring from the second initiating codon followed by the protein processing. It was shown that PssA is an integral membrane-bound protein involved in glucose 1-phosphate transfer from UDP-glucose to polyprenyl phosphate to form polyprenyl diphosphate glucose. These results suggest that the pssA gene encodes UDP-glucose:polyprenyl phosphate-glucosyl phosphotransferase.
The human phosphomannomutases PMM1 and PMM2 catalyze the interconversion of hexose 6-phosphates and hexose 1-phosphates. The two isoforms share 66% sequence identity and have kinetic properties similar to those of mutases in vitro but differ in their functional roles in vivo. Though the physiological role of PMM2 is catalysis of the mutase reaction that provides the mannose 1-phosphate (Man-1-P) essential for protein glycosylation, PMM1 is thought to provide a phosphohydrolase activity in the presence of inosine monophosphate (IMP), converting glucose 1,6-bisphosphate (Glu-1,6-P2) to glucose 6-phosphate (Glu-6-P), rescuing glycolysis during brain ischemia. To uncover the structural basis of how IMP binding converts PMM1 from a mutase to a phosphatase, the 1.93 Å resolution structure of PMM1 complexed with IMP was determined. The structure reveals IMP bound at the substrate recruitment site, thus inhibiting the mutase activity while simultaneously activating a phosphatase activity (IMP Kact = 1.5 μM) resulting from the hydrolysis of the phospho-enzyme. The bound structure and site-directed mutagenesis confirm that the long-range electrostatic interactions provided by Arg180 and Arg183 conserved in PMM1 are the major contributors to IMP binding, and their oblation removes phosphatase but not mutase activity. These residues are not present in the PMM2 isoform, which consequently lacks significant phosphatase activity in the presence of IMP. T2 relaxation nuclear magnetic resonance and small angle X-ray scattering together support the hypothesis that binding of IMP to PMM1 favors an enzyme conformation that is catalytically competent for water attack at the phosphoaspartyl intermediate. Such a mechanism may be generalizable to other enzymes that act through covalent intermediates.
Abstract Parasitic protozoa of the genus Leishmania secrete a filamentous macromolecule that forms networks and appears to be associated with cell aggregation. We report here the purification of this parasite antigen from Leishmania major culture supernatant and its compositional (75.6% carbohydrate, 20% phosphate, 4.4% amino acids, w/w), structural, and ultrastructural characterization as a highly unusual proteophosphoglycan (PPG). Mild acid hydrolysis, which cleaves preferentially hexose 1-phosphate bonds, releases the PPG glycans. Their structures are Galβ1-4Man, Manα1-2Man, Galβ1-3Galβ1-4Man, PO4-6(Galβ1-3)0-2Galβ1-4Man, and PO4-6(Araβ1-2Galβ1-3)Galβ1-4Man. These glycans are also components of the parasite glycolipid lipophosphoglycan, but their relative abundance and structural organization in PPG are different. Some of them represent novel forms of protein glycosylation. 31P NMR on native PPG demonstrates that phosphate is exclusively in phosphodiester bonds and that the basic structure R-Manα1-PO4-6-Gal-R connects the glycans. A phosphodiester linkage to phosphoserine (most likely R-Manα1-PO4-Ser) anchors the PPG oligosaccharides to the polypeptide. PPG has a unique amino acid composition; glycosylated phosphoserine (>43 mol %), serine, alanine, and proline account for more than 87 mol % and appear to be clustered in large proteinase-resistant domains. Electron microscopy of purified PPG reveals cable-like, flexible, long (to 6 μm), and unbranched filaments. The overall structure of PPG shows many similarities to mammalian mucins. Potential functions of this novel mucin-like molecule for the parasites are discussed.
Parasitic protozoa of the genus Leishmania secrete a filamentous macromolecule that forms networks and appears to be associated with cell aggregation. We report here the purification of this parasite antigen from Leishmania major culture supernatant and its compositional (75.6% carbohydrate, 20% phosphate, 4.4% amino acids, w/w), structural, and ultrastructural characterization as a highly unusual proteophosphoglycan (PPG). Mild acid hydrolysis, which cleaves preferentially hexose 1-phosphate bonds, releases the PPG glycans. Their structures are Gal␤1-4Man, Man␣1-2Man, Gal␤1-3Gal␤1-4Man, PO 4 -6(Gal␤1-3) 0 -2 Gal␤1-4Man, and PO 4 -6(Ara␤1-2Gal␤1-3)Gal␤1-4Man. These glycans are also components of the parasite glycolipid lipophosphoglycan, but their relative abundance and structural organization in PPG are different. Some of them represent novel forms of protein glycosylation. 31 P NMR on native PPG demonstrates that phosphate is exclusively in phosphodiester bonds and that the basic structure R-Man␣1-PO 4 -6-Gal-R connects the glycans. A phosphodiester linkage to phosphoserine (most likely R-Man␣1-PO 4 -Ser) anchors the PPG oligosaccharides to the polypeptide. PPG has a unique amino acid composition; glycosylated phosphoserine (>43 mol %), serine, alanine, and proline account for more than 87 mol % and appear to be clustered in large proteinase-resistant domains. Electron microscopy of purified PPG reveals cable-like, flexible, long (to 6 m), and unbranched filaments. The overall structure of PPG shows many similarities to mammalian mucins. Potential functions of this novel mucin-like molecule for the parasites are discussed.
We previously reported a technique for enzymatic production of LNB from sucrose and GlcNAc by means of sucrose phosphorylase (SP, EC 2.4.1.7), UDP-glucose-hexose 1-phosphate uridylyltransferase (GalT, EC 2.7.7.12), UDP-glucose-4-epimerase (GalE, EC 5.1.3.2), and GLNBP (Nishimoto and Kitaoka, 2007c ). This method is efficient and produces 1.9 kg LNB in a one-pot reaction at 10-L scale. The method can be used for production of GNB if GlcNAc is substituted with GalNAc ). Because LNB stimulates the growth of only specific species of Bifidobacterium, such as infant-associated species Xiao et al., 2010) , industrial production of LNB is worthwhile.
Abstract 1. 1. Galactose 1-phosphate is easily separated from the other common hexose phosphates in the chromatographic system of Goodman, Benson and Calvin (Dowex-1 borate column, borax eluant). It emerges from the column after glucose 1-phosphate and before fructose 6-phosphate. Mannose 6-phosphate is eluted with fructose 6-phosphate and galactose 6-phosphate with glucose 6-phosphate. 2. 2. Procedures are described for the removal of borate from chromatographic fractions containing hexose phosphates, and for the subsequent isolation of the phosphates as salts. 3. 3. A sensitive, convenient colorimetric method for monitoring chromatograms of sugars and their derivatives is described. The method discriminates well between hexoses and pentoses. 4. 4. Instructions are given for the accurate determination of inorganic phosphate in the presence of hexose 1-phosphates.
We have determined the functions of the enzymes encoded by the lnpB, lnpC, and lnpD genes, located downstream of the lacto-N-biose phosphorylase gene (lnpA), in Bifidobacterium longum JCM1217. The lnpB gene encodes a novel kinase, N-acetylhexosamine 1-kinase, which produces N-acetylhexosamine 1-phosphate; the lnpC gene encodes UDP-glucose hexose 1-phosphate uridylyltransferase, which is also active on N-acetylhexosamine 1-phosphate; and the lnpD gene encodes a UDP-glucose 4-epimerase, which is active on both UDP-galactose and UDP-N-acetylgalactosamine. These results suggest that the gene operon lnpABCD encodes a previously undescribed lacto-N-biose I/galacto-N-biose metabolic pathway that is involved in the intestinal colonization of bifidobacteria and that utilizes lacto-N-biose I from human milk oligosaccharides or galacto-N-biose from mucin sugars.
An intracellular hexose 6-phosphate:phosphohydrolase (EC 3.1.3.2) has been purified from Streptococcus lactis K1. Polyacrylamide disc gel electrophoresis of the purified enzyme revealed one major activity staining protein and one minor inactive band. The Mr determined by gel permeation chromatography was 36,500, but sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis revealed a single polypeptide of apparent Mr 60,000. The enzyme exhibited a marked preference for hexose 6-phosphates, and the rate of substrate hydrolysis (at 5 mM concentration) decreased in the order, galactose 6-phosphate greater than 2-deoxy-D-glucose 6-phosphate greater than fructose 6-phosphate greater than mannose 6-phosphate greater than glucose 6-phosphate. Hexose 1-phosphates, p-nitrophenylphosphate, pyrophosphate, and nucleotides were not hydrolyzed at a significant rate. In addition, the glycolytic intermediates comprising the intracellular phosphoenolpyruvate potential in the starved cells (phosphoenolpyruvate and 2- and 3-phosphoglyceric acids) were not substrates for the phosphatase. Throughout the isolation, the hexose 6-phosphate:phosphohydrolase was stabilized by Mn2+ ion, and the purified enzyme was dependent upon Mn2+, Mg2+, Fe2+, or Co2+ for activation. Other divalent metal ions including Pb2+, Cu2+, Zn2+, Cd2+, Ca2+, Ba2+, Sr2+, and Ni2+ were unable to activate the enzyme, and the first four cations were potent inhibitors. Enzymatic hydrolysis of 2-deoxy-D-glucose 6-phosphate was inhibited by fluoride when Mg2+ was included in the assay, but only slight inhibition occurred in the presence of Mn2+, Fe2+, or Co2+. The inhibitory effect of Mg2+ plus fluoride was specifically and completely reversed by Fe2+ ion. The hexose 6-phosphate:phosphohydrolase catalyzes the in vivo hydrolysis of 2-deoxy-D-glucose 6-phosphate in stage II of the phosphoenolpyruvate-dependent futile cycle in S. lactis (J. Thompson and B. M. Chassy, J. Bacteriol. 151:1454-1465, 1982).
GalU enzymes have been shown to play crucial roles in galactose fermentation [19] . Other metabolic pathways in which this enzyme family is active are similar like the ones UDP-glucose itself plays an important role. It produces UDP-glucose as precursor for sucrose, glucan and amylose in the sugar and starch metabolism. Furthermore, it plays a role in galactose metabolism and glucuronate interconversion, where galactose 1-phosphate is over all converted into UDP-glucuronate with the help of a hexose 1-phosphate uridylyl transferase and a UDP-glucose 6-dehydrogenase. In amino sugar and nucleotide sugar metabolism, GalU is active in interconverting different UDP-sugars via the intermediate UDP-glucose. Additionally, it can be found in glycolipid metabolism and the synthesis During those studies, it became clear that many organisms also carry a gene encoding for a GalF, a homologous and putative regulatory protein towards GalU. In E. coli the function of the GalF protein was determined by Ebrecht and co-workers [19] to putatively regulate or even interact with GalU while maintaining a low UDP-glucose pyrophosphorylase activity (0.004% of EcGalU). It seems to be an evolutionary artefact, which was observed for several other Enterobacteria, as exemplarily different species and strains of Klebsiella, Yersinia, Pectobacterium, Shigella, Escherichia, Pantoea, Salmonella, Serratia, and some others [19] . Both proteins, GalU and GalF, seem to have evolved independently from a common ancestor, but only GalU kept the initial enzymatic role. Apparently, GalF underwent several mutations, which led to a much lower activity compared to GalU. By means of mutagenesis of identified key residues, the activity of GalF was restored and comparable to GalU and even a physiological complementation of a GalU-knockout strain was possible [19] . GalUs are known to have two important conserved motifs: The N-terminal one, which is involved in the binding of the uracil ring with the sequence G-X-G-T-R-X-L-P-X-T-K (X stands for any amino acid) [8, 38] and a V-E-K-P-motif with an important lysine for glucose 1-phosphate binding [38] [39] [40] . The GalF of E. coli was shown to have the same V-E-K-P-motif, but instead of G-L-G-T-R, GalF has G-L-G-M-H residues in the N-terminal motif [19] . By means of mutagenesis it could be shown that the alteration of T-R into M-H was possibly the reason for the reduced UDP-glucose pyrophosphorylase activity of E. coli GalF. But, the actual function of GalF among Enterobacteria still remains unclear. If gene redundancy and physiological flexibility here between E. coli GalU and GalF is of relevance is not yet clarified. Furthermore, it remains enigmatic why this presence of homologous GalU/GalF-proteins has so far only been reported for Enterobacteria among the bacteria. However, in the genomes of Rhodococcus species, gene redundancy plays a crucial role [20, 22, 27, [41] [42] [43] . Interestingly, most Rhodococcus species also carry two galU genes which we will highlight herein for the first time. Thus, R. opacus 1CP encodes for two isoforms of the GalU enzyme-RoGalU1 and RoGalU2, which have not been characterized yet. In some cases, it could be shown that enzymatic isoforms derived from rhodococci have the same or only a slightly different function, so that it was assumed that the coding isogenes have evolved independently from a common ancestor [44] . However, the functionality of respective proteins has not been investigated so far. Furthermore, to the best of our knowledge studies on UDP-glucose pyrophosphorylases in Rhodocccus species have not been carried out. Herein we describe the redundant GalU enzymes of R. opacus 1CP whereas one was found to be active as recombinant enzyme and might participate in several metabolic pathways, which is discussed in detail. Phylogenetic analysis of the amino acid sequences of GalU proteins of several rhodococci, Enterobacteria, and Actinobacteria helps to further understand the role of RoGalU1 and RoGalU2. This will also give more information on gene redundancy in Actino-and Enterobacteria in general.
The Arabidopsis thaliana VTC2 gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of GDP-L-galactose to L-galactose 1-phosphate in the first committed step of the Smirnoff-Wheeler pathway to plant vitamin C synthesis. Mutations in VTC2 had previously been found to lead to only partial vitamin C deficiency. Here we show that the Arabidopsis gene At5g55120 encodes an enzyme with high sequence identity to VTC2. Designated VTC5, this enzyme displays substrate specificity and enzymatic properties that are remarkably similar to those of VTC2, suggesting that it may be responsible for residual vitamin C synthesis in vtc2 mutants. The exact nature of the reaction catalyzed by VTC2/VTC5 is controversial because of reports that kiwifruit and Arabidopsis VTC2 utilize hexose 1-phosphates as phosphorolytic acceptor substrates. Using liquid chromatography-mass spectroscopy and a VTC2-H238N mutant, we provide evidence that the reaction proceeds through a covalent guanylylated histidine residue within the histidine triad motif. Moreover, we show that both the Arabidopsis VTC2 and VTC5 enzymes catalyze simple phosphorolysis of the guanylylated enzyme, forming GDP and L-galactose 1-phosphate from GDP-L-galactose and phosphate, with poor reactivity of hexose 1-phosphates as phosphorolytic acceptors. Indeed, the endogenous activities from Japanese mustard spinach, lemon, and spinach have the same substrate requirements. These results show that Arabidopsis VTC2 and VTC5 proteins and their homologs in other plants are enzymes that guanylylate a conserved active site His residue with GDP-L-galactose, forming L-galactose 1-phosphate for vitamin C synthesis, and regenerate the enzyme with phosphate to form GDP.
The Arabidopsis thaliana VTC2 gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of GDP-L-galactose to L-galactose 1-phosphate in the first committed step of the SmirnoffWheeler pathway to plant vitamin C synthesis. Mutations in VTC2 had previously been found to lead to only partial vitamin C deficiency. Here we show that the Arabidopsis gene At5g55120 encodes an enzyme with high sequence identity to VTC2. Designated VTC5, this enzyme displays substrate specificity and enzymatic properties that are remarkably similar to those of VTC2, suggesting that it may be responsible for residual vitamin C synthesis in vtc2 mutants. The exact nature of the reaction catalyzed by VTC2/VTC5 is controversial because of reports that kiwifruit and Arabidopsis VTC2 utilize hexose 1-phosphates as phosphorolytic acceptor substrates. Using liquid chromatography-mass spectroscopy and a VTC2-H238N mutant, we provide evidence that the reaction proceeds through a covalent guanylylated histidine residue within the histidine triad motif. Moreover, we show that both the Arabidopsis VTC2 and VTC5 enzymes catalyze simple phosphorolysis of the guanylylated enzyme, forming GDP and L-galactose 1-phosphate from GDP-L-galactose and phosphate, with poor reactivity of hexose 1-phosphates as phosphorolytic acceptors. Indeed, the endogenous activities from Japanese mustard spinach, lemon, and spinach have the same substrate requirements. These results show that Arabidopsis VTC2 and VTC5 proteins and their homologs in other plants are enzymes that guanylylate a conserved active site His residue with GDP-L-galactose, forming L-galactose 1-phosphate for vitamin C synthesis, and regenerate the enzyme with phosphate to form GDP.
In the wake of the identification of VTC2 as the L-Gal-1-Pforming enzyme, three issues remained unresolved. First, are vtc2-2 and vtc2-3 null mutations? If so, is there a VTC2-independent pathway for making vitamin C that might be responsible for the viability of the mutant plants? Second, consistent with the sequence relationship of VTC2 as a HIT protein, does this enzyme proceed through a guanylylated histidine intermediate? Third, does the guanylylated intermediate of VTC2 become resolved by simple phosphorolysis (i.e. transfer to phosphate) as we reported (13) or by transfer to a hexose 1-phosphate as reported by others (14)?
Hydrolysis of sugar phosphates by crude and purified preparations of periplasmic hexose phosphatase from Salmonella typhimurium followed Michaelis-Menten kinetics. The enzyme bound glucose 1-phosphate with high affinity (Km = 10 microM) but bound glucose 6-phosphate with low affinity (Km = 2,000 microM). The order of substrate affinities was glucose 1-phosphate greater than mannose 1-phosphate = galactose 1-phosphate greater than fructose 1-phosphate greater than glucose 6-phosphate. These results and others suggest that the physiological function of the enzyme is the periplasmic hydrolysis of hexose 1-phosphates.
Hydrolysis of sugar phosphates by crude and purified preparations of periplasmic hexose phosphatase from Salmonella typhimurium followed MichaelisMenten kinetics. The enzyme bound glucose 1-phosphate with high affinity (Km = 10 !LM) but bound glucose 6-phosphate with low affinity (Km = 2,000 MM). The order of substrate affinities was glucose 1-phosphate > mannose 1-phosphate = galactose 1-phosphate > fructose 1-phosphate > glucose 6-phosphate. These results and others suggest that the physiological function of the enzyme is the periplasmic hydrolysis of hexose 1-phosphates.
Periplasmic hexose phosphatase (EC 3.1.3.2) is a dimeric enzyme with a subunit molecular weight of 37,000 (1, 4, 5, 13). The enzyme appears to allow bacteria that lack the hexose phosphate permease to utilize sugar phosphates by a pathway which involves the hydrolysis of the esters in the periplasmic space, followed by transport of the free hexoses across the cytoplasmic membrane. The substrate specificity of the enzyme has not been studied in detail. In this communication we show that the enzyme exhibits high affinity for hexose 1-phosphates (hexose 1-Ps) but low affinity for hexose 6-Ps. Evidence is presented which suggests that a single gene product is responsible for the periplaamic hydrolysis of sugar 1-Ps when these substrates are utilized as a source of carbon for growth.
Abstract 1. 1. The purified sugar phosphate phosphohydrolase from E. coli and N. meningitidis were used for our study and biphasic responses were observed in the presence of fluoride. 2. 2. From the kinetic studies of fluoride inhibition, the enzymes from both bacteria appear to catalyze the hydrolysis of α- d -aldohexose 1-phosphate and α- d -aldohexose 6-phosphate at two distinct catalytic sites.
Abstract A new type of phosphohydrolase that can hydrolyze only phosphate esters of sugars was purified from Neisseria meningitidis. The α-d-aldohexose 1-phosphates and d-ketohexose 1-phosphatase served as the best substrates for the sugar phosphate phosphohydrolase. The d-aldohexose 6-phosphates and d-ketohexose 6-phosphates were hydrolyzed at the same rate as the α-d-hexose 1-phosphates, with the exception of d-galactose-6-P and d-mannose-6-P, which followed at 30% and 28.5%, respectively. If the phosphate group of the d-aldohexose 1-phosphates was esterified in the β configuration at the first carbon atom, they no longer served as substrates. Both phosphate ester bonds of fructose-1,6-di-P were hydrolyzed. When position 6 of α-d-glucose-1-P was in the form of a carboxyl group giving the sugar acid α-d-glucuronic acid-1-P, its rate of hydrolysis was reduced only 25%. However, when position 1 of d-glucose-6-P or d-glyceraldehyde-3-P was in the form of a carboxyl group giving the nonsugars 6-P-gluconate and 3-P-glycerate, no significant hydrolysis was observed. The d-pentose phosphates and triose phosphates were hydrolyzed at a slower rate than the d-hexose 1-phosphates. The phosphate esters of the disaccharides α-gentiobiose-1-P and α-lactose-1-P were hydrolyzed at 66% and 15% of that of α-d-glucose-1-P, respectively. Phosphate esters other than the sugar phosphates were not hydrolyzed significantly by the purified enzyme. When cells were cultured in a complete basal medium, most of the sugar phosphate phosphohydrolase activity was specifically released into the sucrose-Tris-ethylenediaminetetraacetate and "cold water wash" fractions, implying a surface localization. When cells were maintained in a salt medium lacking glucose and lactalbumin hydrolysate, most of the activity remained with the insoluble cytoplasmic membrane fraction. The latter activity could be partially released after storing the cells at 1–3° for 3 or more weeks. A method is described for the purification of the sugar phosphate phosphohydrolase from N. meningitidis. A similar type of enzyme was also purified from Escherichia coli. A purified preparation of the sugar phosphate phosphohydrolase moved as a single peak in sedimentation, and the s20,w was calculated to be 3.29 x 10-13 sec.
Known natural phosphorylation reactions have been exploited with mixed success for the biocatalytic synthesis of sugar phosphates. Glycosyl transfer to phosphate is fundamentally limited in application to hexose 1-phosphate products, and the relatively narrow substrate scope of glycoside phosphorylase reactions restricts one to just a few glycosyl phosphates for which effective production has been demonstrated on a preparative scale (e.g., ␣-D-glucose 1-phosphate [␣Glc 1-P] and ␤Glc 1-P [26, 27] and ␣-D-galactose 1-phosphate [28] ). Phosphotransferase reactions, in contrast, offer convenient access to a large diversity of sugar phosphate products, as shown for nucleoside triphosphate-dependent phosphorylation of various hexose substrates by sugar kinases, for example (29-33). However, the high cost of the phosphoactivated donor substrate and enzyme inhibition by the resulting dephosphorylation product (e.g., ADP from ATP) necessitate that the phosphoryl donor be supplied in only catalytic amounts and therefore regenerated continuously during the reaction (Fig.  1B) (34, 35) . However, this makes the biocatalytic phosphoryl 
Hexose 1-phosphate uridylyltransferase (EC 2.7.7.12) was present constitutively in Bifidobacterium bifidum. The enzyme was purified to a homogeneous state from B. bifidum grown on a glucose medium and characterized. The molecular weight of the enzyme is about 110,000.The pH optimum of the enzyme was 7.5. The enzyme was very labile on the acidic side below pH 4.5. Thymidine diphosphate glucose could serve as a substrate with about 60% efficiency of UDP-glucose. The Km values for UDP-gtucose, galactose 1-phosphate (Gal-l-P), UDP-galactose and glucose 1-phosphate (Glc-1-P) were estimated to be 2.3×10−5M, 5.0 × 10−4M, 3.1 × 10−5 M and 1.4 × 10−4M, respectively. From these results the physiological roles of the enzyme were considered in relation to galactose metabolism in B. bifidum.
phosphonate analogs | phosphoryl transfer mechanism | 19 F NMR | X-ray crystallography | water-mediated substrate recognition E fficient enzyme catalysis of the manipulation of phosphates is one of the great achievements of evolution (1). Enzymes that operate on phosphate monoesters and anhydrides transfer the phosphoryl moiety, PO 3 − , with rate accelerations approaching 10 21 for monoesters, placing them among the most proficient of all enzymes (1). Phosphomutases, including α-phosphoglucomutase (αPGM) (2, 3) and β-phosphoglucomutase (βPGM) (4-6), phosphoglycerate mutase (7), α-phosphomannomutase (αPMM/PGM) (8), and N-acetylglucosamine-phosphate mutase (9), merit special attention because these enzymes have to be effective in donating a phosphoryl group to either of two hydroxyl groups that have intrinsically different reactivity. Only when both half-reactions of a phosphomutase are accessible to mechanistic analysis can the problem of how an enzyme accommodates two distinct chemistries within a single active site be resolved. Hexose 1-phosphate mutases, including enzymes central to glycolysis and other metabolic pathways, are well characterized (10, 11). They are generally activated by phosphorylation to form a covalent phosphoenzyme, which then donates its PO 3 − group to either of its substrates to deliver a common, transient, hexose 1,6-bisphosphate intermediate species. However, structural studies on phosphomutases are complicated by the rapid and often imbalanced equilibrium position between the substrates, and kinetic studies are problematic because of competitive, parallel pathways of enzyme activation and substrate inhibition (12, 13). As a result, transition states (TSs) for both halfreactions have not hitherto been accessible for mechanistic analysis.
βPGM is the best-characterized hexose 1-phosphate mutase and is a member of the haloacid dehalogenase (HAD) superfamily (14), which has 58 HAD homologs in Homo sapiens (11). The key cellular role for βPGM is to support growth on maltose (14), which demands isomerization of β-D-glucose 1-phosphate (βG1P) via β-D-glucose 1,6-bisphosphate (βG16BP) into D-glucose 6-phosphate (G6P), a universal source of cellular energy. This interconversion is achieved via a transient, covalent phosphoenzyme intermediate involving an essential aspartic acid, Asp8, to conserve the phosphoryl group that migrates intermolecularly (Fig. 1) . Mechanistically, this pathway demands the architecture of the catalytic site to be effective in promoting phosphoryl transfer from phospho-Asp8 to the 6-OH group of βG1P (step 1), followed by reverse phosphoryl transfer from 1β-OH of βG16BP to Asp8 (step 2).
6-Deoxy-D-fructose 1-phosphate (6-deoxyF-1-P) forms when a solution containing D-fructose 1,6-diphosphate (FDP) and D-lactaldehyde is treated with the enzymes aldolase and triosephosphate isomerase. This transformation involves three reactions: aldolase-catalyzed cleavage of FDP to a mixture of dihydroxyacetone phosphate and D-glyceraldehyde phosphate, triosephosphate isomerase catalyzed equilibration of dihydroxyacetone phosphate and D-glyceraldehyde phosphate, and aldolase-catalyzed condensation of dihydroxyacetone phosphate and D-lactaldehyde to 6-deoxyF-1-P. An analogous process converts a mixture of FDP and L-lactaldehyde to 6-deoxysorbose 1-phosphate (6-deoxyS-1-P). Aldolase-catalyzed reaction of dihydroxyacetone phosphate, prepared separately, with D-lactaldehyde yields 6-deoxyF-1-P directly; similar reaction of dihydroxyacetone phosphate with α-hydroxybutyraldehyde yields a mixture of 6-methyl-6-deoxyhexose 1-phosphates. Acid-catalyzed hydrolysis of the sugar phosphates releases the corresponding free sugars. A mixture containing 6-deoxyhexoses is formed directly by base-catalyzed aldol condensation of dihydroxyacetone and D,L-lactaldehyde. Treatment of any of the 6-deoxyhexoses with acids generates 2,5-dimethyl-4-hydroxy-2,3-dihydrofuran-3-one (Furaneol, a flavor principle). Furaneol can also be prepared in moderate yields by hydrogenolysis of FDP and other hexose phosphates in alkaline media
