Heritable diseases associated with childhood tumors are sometimes defined as a probable etiologic factor or a coincidence. First of all, we must know the actual number of patients. Herein a case with medulloblastoma associated with L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria is reported for this purpose. A 5-year-old boy was admitted with nausea, vomiting, and lethargy. In medical history, consanguinity and siblings with mental-motor retardation and epilepsy are remarkable. Growth retardation, macrocephaly, lethargy, tremor, bilateral nistagmus, and papilledema were prominent features in physical examination. Noncontrast computed tomography of the brain showed a hyper dense mass in the cerebellar vermis. Gross total resection was made and the histopathology of the tumor was medulloblastoma. Besides medical history and physical findings, radiologic white matter changes in the subcortical, periventricular regions, bilateral basal ganglia, and caudate nuclei in magnetic resonance images other than tumor led us to investigate the child for L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. The level of the 2-OH glutaric acid was determined as being 12-fold high in the urine. Chemo-radiotherapy was performed after surgery. Our case was the third patient with medulloblastoma in the literature and is still alive with no evidence of the disease 19 months after the initial diagnosis.
Tissue accumulation of high amounts of D-2-hydroxyglutaric acid (DGA) and l-2-hydroxyglutaric acid (LGA) is the biochemical hallmark of the inherited neurometabolic disorders D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (DHGA) and l-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (LHGA), respectively. Patients affected by DHGA predominantly present neurological and cardiomuscular symptoms, while those with LHGA have mainly severe neurological symptoms. Lactic aciduria and/or lactic acidemia may also occur in both disorders, suggesting mitochondrial dysfunction. We have previously reported that cytochrome c oxidase (COX) activity is severely inhibited by DGA in rat cerebral cortex and human skeletal muscle. In the present study, we initially evaluated the role of DGA and LGA on the mitochondrial respiratory chain complex activities, as well as CO2 on production in cardiac and skeletal muscle from 30-day-old Wistar rats. DGA significantly inhibited COX and ATP synthase (F0F1-ATP synthase) activities, in contrast to the other activities of the respiratory chain enzymes which were not affected by DGA in both muscular tissues. In addition, CO2 production was also markedly reduced by DGA in rat skeletal and cardiac muscles. On the other hand, LGA did not interfere with any of the respiratory chain complex activities studied, neither with CO2 generation. We also measured mitochondrial respiratory parameters in rat brain mitochondrial preparations in the presence of DGA and LGA. Both metabolites significantly lowered the respiratory control ratio in the presence of glutamate/malate and succinate. Since the metabolites stimulated oxygen consumption in state IV and compromised ATP formation, it can be presumed that these organic acids might act as endogenous uncouplers of mitochondria respiration. Moreover, COX activity linked to TMPD-ascorbate was significantly reduced by DGA in the brain mitochondrial enriched fractions. Finally, DGA and LGA reduced cell viability of rat cerebral cortex slices, as determined by the MTT assay. In case our in vitro data also occur in vivo, it may be presumed that impairment of energy metabolism may contribute to the understanding of the clinical features mainly of patients affected by DHGA.
Large amounts of d-2-hydroxyglutaric acid (DGA) accumulate in d-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (D-2-OHGA), an inherited neurometabolic disorder characterized by severe neurological dysfunction and cerebral atrophy. Despite the significant brain abnormalities, the neurotoxic mechanisms of brain injury in this disease are virtually unknown. In this work, the in vitro effect of DGA on various parameters of oxidative stress was investigated; namely chemiluminescence, thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBA-RS), total radical-trapping antioxidant potential (TRAP), total antioxidant reactivity (TAR) and the activities of the antioxidant enzymes catalase, glutathione peroxidase and superoxide dismutase in cerebral cortex from 30-day-old-rats. DGA significantly increased chemiluminescence and TBA-RS and decreased TAR values in the cortical supernatants. In contrast, TRAP and the antioxidant enzyme activities were not altered by the metabolite. Furthermore, the DGA-induced increase of TBA-RS was fully prevented by the free radical scavengers ascorbic acid plus Trolox (water-soluble alpha-tocopherol) and attenuated by the inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase Nomega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), suggesting the role of superoxide, hydroxyl and nitric oxide radicals in this action. The data indicate a stimulation of lipid peroxidation through the production of free radicals and a reduction of the brain capacity to efficiently modulate the damage associated with the enhanced generation of free radicals by DGA. In the case that these findings also occur in human D-2-OHGA, it is feasible that oxidative stress may be involved in the pathophysiology of the brain injury observed in patients with this disease.
l-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria (l-2-OHGA) is a rare autosomal recessive inherited encephalopathy. This inborn error, characterized by psychomotor retardation, progressive ataxia and typical magnetic resonance imaging findings, presents in early infancy. To make a definitive diagnosis, an anomalous accumulation of l-2-hydroxyglutaric acid must be detected in body fluids. Here, we present a 17-year-old boy with l-2-OHGA who developed an anaplastic ependymoma during the course of this disease. We also present a literature review including seven other patients who developed malignant brain tumors during the course of l-2-OHGA. This correlation may indicate a possible increased risk of brain tumors among patients with l-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria.
D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (D-2-HGA; OMIM 600721) is a rare autosomal recessive neurometabolic disorder with a wide clinical spectrum. The severe phenotype is homogeneous and is characterized by early infantile-onset epileptic encephalopathy with hypotonia, delayed cerebral visual development, cardiomyopathy and facial dysmorphic features. The mild phenotype has a more variable clinical expression with hypotonia and developmental delay. We present peripheral neuropathy as an additional clinical and electrophysiological feature in a 16-year-old boy with a homozygous missense mutation in exon 3 of the D-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase gene (D2HGDH) at position c.458T>C. This mutation results in replacement of a methionine residue, which was highly conserved during evolution, by threonine (p.Met153Thr).
The high-affinity GHB receptor, AKR7A2 and neurological disease As noted above, the role of GHB as an endogenous neuromodulator/neurotransmitter with its own highaffinity receptor is controversial. The sedative and hypnotic effects of GHB are mostly attributed to GABA B receptor signalling. However, there are regionally located, high-affinity GHB receptors in brain, with a well-documented developmental ontogeny for these receptors. 24, 25 Two binding sites, with high and low affinity, respectively, are found in the brain. One report using receptor binding in rat brain preparations with 3 H-GHB indicated two sites, with affinities of Figure 1 . Metabolic interrelationships of g-aminobutyric acid (GABA) synthesis and metabolism in mammals, and metabolic abnormalities identified in murine and human aldehyde dehydrogenase 5A1 (ALDH5A1) deficiency (not all steps are shown). The site of the block in ALDH5A1 deficiency is indicated by the shaded box. The reader's attention is called to potential disturbances in the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle induced by ALDH5A1 deficiency. Note that a-ketoglutarate (a-KG; also known as 2-ketoglutarate) is the nitrogen acceptor for conversion of GABA to succinic semialdehyde (SSA) (thus regenerating glutamate in the GABA shunt), and is the acceptor for hydrogen moieties in the reaction consuming g-hydroxybutyrate (GHB), with production of D-2-hydroxyglutaric acid (D-2-HG) catalysed by D-2-hydroxyglutarate transhydrogenase (HOT). Especially in neural tissue, the TCA cycle may be depleted in a-KG, which may be further attenuated by loss of succinate from blocked GABA degradation, and the potential consumption of either pyruvate or acetyl coenzyme A in the formation of 4,5-dihydroxyhexanoic acid (DHHA) from SSA. Circled numbers represent the following enzymes: 1, glutaminase; 2, glutamic acid decarboxylase; 3, homocarnosinase ( probably the same as carnosinase); 4, arginine:glycine amidinotransferase ( putative); 5, GABA transaminase; 6, unproven reaction, but likely to involve pyruvate dehydrogenase; 7, succinate semialdehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH5A1); 8, aldo-keto reductase 7A2 (AKR7A2); 9, HOT. Note that HOT is a reversible, NAD þ -independent transhydrogenase converting GHB and a-KG to SSA and D-2-HG. 0.6 mM and 2.3 mM, respectively. Another study, using rat brain, reported sites with affinities of 0.10 mM and 16 mM, respectively. 26, 27 The reasons for these discrepancies remain unclear. Quantitative autoradiography in the human brain demonstrated two sites with dissociation constants (KD) of 0.09 mM and 0.92 mM, respectively. 28 Autoradiography studies using 3 H-NCS382 or 3 H-GHB indicate that binding is highest in the neuronal layers of the hippocampus and the grey matter of the cerebral cortex, with low binding observed in the cerebellum. 28, 29 Radioligand binding studies using 3 H-NCS382 show that levels of the high-affinity GHB receptor increase with age (nine versus 27 weeks) in the cerebral cortex but not in hippocampus. 30 Three recently cloned receptors (human and rat), that have binding characteristics similar to the highaffinity GHB receptor, were reported. 31, 32 The rat receptor cloned from a rat hippocampal cDNA library revealed a KD of 0.43 mM. 31 Expression of the cDNA for this putative GHB receptor induces depolarisation in the presence of GHB. Unexpectedly, however, the high-affinity GHB receptor antagonist NCS-382 did not block this effect. An antibody raised against the rat protein yielded similar localisation results as the autoradiographic studies. 33 Two putative human receptors (GHBh1 and C12K32) were cloned from a human frontal cortex cDNA library. 32 Amino acid sequence and GTPgS binding data indicated that both proteins were G-protein-coupled receptors. These data support previous findings that the highaffinity GHB receptor is a G-protein-coupled receptor. 34 Application of submicromolar amounts of GHB stimulated membrane depolarisation in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells expressing both cDNAs, and the KD of the C12K32 clone for GHB was 0.11 mM.
Glutaric aciduria type 1 (GA1) and D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (D-2-HGA) are cerebral organic acidurias characterized by the excretion of 3-hydroxyglutaric and D-2-hydroxyglutaric acids, respectively. GA1 is caused by a deficiency of glutaryl-CoA dehydrogenase encoded by the GCDH gene; the biochemical and genetic basis of D-2-HGA is unknown. We diagnosed GA1 in the son of consanguineous Palestinian parents, and D-2-HGA in his sister and brother. All three siblings were neurologically and developmentally normal. A small but abnormal increase in excretion of D-2-hydroxyglutaric acid was also found in the sibling with GA1. These observations suggested a possible pathophysiological link between these two disorders. The sibling with GA1 was homozygous whilst his siblings with D-2-HGA were heterozygous for a 1283 C>T missense mutation (T4161) in exon 11 of the GCDH gene. However, sequence analysis of the GCDH gene in 8 additional unrelated patients with D-2-HGA and 3 with combined D/L-2-HGA did not reveal any pathogenic mutations. The biochemical and genetic basis of D-2-HGA remains to be determined.
Gain-of-function mutations in nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH)1 and IDH2 frequently arise in human leukemias and other cancers and produce high levels of D-2-hydroxyglutarate (D-2HG). We expressed the R195H mutant of Drosophila Idh (CG7176), which is equivalent to the human cancer-associated IDH1-R132H mutant, in fly tissues using the UAS-Gal4 binary expression system. Idh-R195H caused a >25-fold elevation of D-2HG when expressed ubiquitously in flies. Expression of mutant Idh in larval blood cells (hemocytes) resulted in higher numbers of circulating blood cells. Mutant Idh expression in fly neurons resulted in neurologic and wing-expansion defects, and these phenotypes were rescued by genetic modulation of superoxide dismutase 2, p53, and apoptotic caspase cascade mediators. Idh-R163Q, which is homologous to the common leukemia-associated IDH2-R140Q mutant, resulted in moderately elevated D-2HG and milder phenotypes. We identified the fly homolog of D-2-hydroxyglutaric acid dehydrogenase (CG3835), which metabolizes D-2HG, and showed that coexpression of this enzyme with mutant Idh abolishes mutant Idh-associated phenotypes. These results provide a flexible model system to interrogate a cancer-related genetic and metabolic pathway and offer insights into the impact of IDH mutation and D-2HG on metazoan tissues.
Gain-of-function mutations in nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH)1 and IDH2 frequently arise in human leukemias and other cancers and produce high levels of D-2-hydroxyglutarate (D-2HG). We expressed the R195H mutant of Drosophila Idh (CG7176), which is equivalent to the human cancerassociated IDH1-R132H mutant, in fly tissues using the UAS-Gal4 binary expression system. Idh-R195H caused a >25-fold elevation of D-2HG when expressed ubiquitously in flies. Expression of mutant Idh in larval blood cells (hemocytes) resulted in higher numbers of circulating blood cells. Mutant Idh expression in fly neurons resulted in neurologic and wing-expansion defects, and these phenotypes were rescued by genetic modulation of superoxide dismutase 2, p53, and apoptotic caspase cascade mediators. Idh-R163Q, which is homologous to the common leukemia-associated IDH2-R140Q mutant, resulted in moderately elevated D-2HG and milder phenotypes. We identified the fly homolog of D-2-hydroxyglutaric acid dehydrogenase (CG3835), which metabolizes D-2HG, and showed that coexpression of this enzyme with mutant Idh abolishes mutant Idh-associated phenotypes. These results provide a flexible model system to interrogate a cancer-related genetic and metabolic pathway and offer insights into the impact of IDH mutation and D-2HG on metazoan tissues. (Blood. 2015;125(2):336-345) Introduction Somatic, gain-of-function mutations in nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADP 1 )-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH)1 and IDH2 occur frequently in acute myeloid leukemias, myelodysplastic syndromes, angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphomas, brain tumors, and other cancers. [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] The mutations occur at the conserved active-site residues of Arg132 in IDH1, or Arg140 and Arg172 in IDH2. When mutated, IDH1 and IDH2 lose their normal function to convert isocitrate to a-ketoglutarate and acquire a gain of function to convert a-ketoglutarate to D-2-hydroxyglutarate (D-2HG).
The 1437-bp translated region of Idh transcript CG7176-RK and the 1602-bp translated region of D-2-hydroxyglutaric acid dehydrogenase (D2hgdh) transcript CG3835-A were amplified by polymerase chain reaction from a pupa complementary DNA library without 39 STOP codons and cloned into pTWF (Gateway II collection), which includes mini-white ([1mC]) eye color marker, 59 UASt for Gal4-driven expression, C-terminal FLAG, SV40 terminator, and flanking P-element insertion sites. Mutagenesis was performed using the QuikChange Site-Directed Mutagenesis Kit (Agilent, Santa Clara, CA).
14,21 Instead, our results indicate that mutant IDH triggers apoptosis within fly neurons, because modulating p53 or apoptosis cascade genes such as DIAP1, dApaf1/DARK, or Dronc can rescue the defects associated with expression of mutant Idh in CCAP neurons. Importantly, we identified in the genetic screen that scavenging ROS by SOD2 can suppress the Idh mutant phenotype, suggesting that this phenotype is caused by high levels of ROS. We further showed that in the CNS, these high levels of ROS induce a p53-mediated apoptotic cascade rather than prosurvival signaling. In humans, astrocytomas with IDH1 mutations almost always acquire a TP53 mutation either concurrently with the IDH1 mutation or later in their clinical course. 1, 74 Our results raise the possibility that the acquisition of TP53 mutations by these gliomas reflects a selective pressure to suppress a p53-initiated apoptotic cascade that is promoted by IDH1 mutation. (A) Introduction of genetic elements that modulate caspase-dependent apoptosis genes to CCAP neurons expressing Idh-R195H. (B) Idh-R195H enhances the apoptosis-driven phenotype for developing eye ectopically expressing Reaper (Rpr) under control of the Gmr-Gal4 promoter. (C) Idh-R195H enhances the apoptosis-driven phenotype for developing eye cells expressing dsRNA knocking down DIAP1 under control of the Gmr-Gal4 promoter. (D) Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD or G6PDH) and WT Idh, which are expected to increase the NADPH pool, enhanced the wing-expansion defect caused by expression of Idh-R195H in CCAP neurons. In contrast, alleles expected to lower the pool of NADPH, including a deficiency of Idh and dsRNA against Idh, suppressed the phenotype. (E) Model for Idh-R195H-induced phenotype in the fly CNS. Idh-R195H consumes NADPH and produces D-2HG, leading to ROS formation. This leads to p53-induced caspase-independent cell death. Cell death of CCAP neurons that secrete bursicon to enforce wing expansion leads to a wing-expansion defect. G6PDH and genes that produce NADPH enhance the phenotype. SOD2 scavenges ROS to suppress the phenotype. All crosses were done at 25°C unless otherwise indicated. Genotypes: (A) CCAP-Gal4, UAS-Idh-R195H/1 (control). CCAP-Gal4, UAS-Idh-R195H/UAS-DIAP1. CCAP-Gal4, UAS-Idh-R195H/Dronc [dsRNA]. CCAP-Gal4, UAS-Idh-R195H/Apaf1 [dsRNA]. CCAP-Gal4, CCAP-Gal4, UASIdh-R195H/p53 [dsRNA]. (B) Gmr-Gal4/1; UAS-Rpr/1. Gmr-Gal4/1; UAS-Rpr/UAS-Idh-WT. Gmr-Gal4/1; UASRpr/UAS-Idh-R195H. (C) Gmr-Gal4/1; UAS-DIAP1/1. Gmr-Gal4/1; UAS-DIAP1/UAS-Idh-WT. Gmr-Gal4/1; UAS-DIAP1/UAS-Idh-R195H. (D) CCAP-Gal4, UASIdh-R195H/1 (control). CCAP-Gal4, UAS-Idh-R195H/ UAS-G6PD. CCAP-Gal4, UAS-Idh-R195H/UAS-Idh-WT. The level of D-2HG and penetrance of phenotypes was higher for Idh-R195H than for Idh-R163Q. This spectrum of potency for different IDH mutants parallels the situation for human IDH mutants, for which D-2HG is higher for IDH1-R132H (analogous to fly Idh-R195H) compared with IDH2-R140Q (analgous to fly Idh-R163Q) in human cancer tissue and cell lines. 4, 75, 76 Additionally, our findings that ubiquitous Idh-R195H expression is not compatible with fly development but that ubiquitous Idh-R163Q expression is tolerated into adulthood mirrors the situation for germline and mosaic IDH mutations in humans. Several patients have been described with germline IDH2 Arg140 mutations that result in D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, a rare inborn error of D-2HG metabolism characterized by elevated D-2HG, CNS defects, and a shortened life span.
77 Germline IDH1-R132H mutation has been speculated to be incompatible with human development because it has only been observed in a mosaic distribution, and even then it is associated with severe metaphysical chondromatosis and D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. 78, 79 We developed this Drosophila model to enable rapid in vivo assays to identify genetic interactions with mutant IDH, in order to map the molecular pathways by which mutant IDH exerts biological phenotypes and to discover therapeutic susceptibilities of IDHmutated cancer tissues. We used this system to test whether a focused panel of candidate genes interacted with mutant IDH in the fly. These genetic tools lay the foundation for large Drosophila screens to provide new insights into disease pathogenesis and therapeutic susceptibilities for IDH-mutated cancers, as well as for D-2HG-associated disease states such as D-2-hydroxygutaric aciduria. Orthologs of the hits identified in these screens can immediately be tested as therapeutic targets in preclinical mammalian models of human IDH-mutated cancers.
Mutations in isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 and 2 (IDH1 and IDH2) are key events in the development of glioma, acute myeloid leukemia (AML), chondrosarcoma, intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (ICC), and angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma. They also cause D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria and Ollier and Maffucci syndromes. IDH1/2 mutations are associated with prolonged survival in glioma and in ICC, but not in AML. The reason for this is unknown. In their wild-type forms, IDH1 and IDH2 convert isocitrate and NADP(+) to α-ketoglutarate (αKG) and NADPH. Missense mutations in the active sites of these enzymes induce a neo-enzymatic reaction wherein NADPH reduces αKG to D-2-hydroxyglutarate (D-2HG). The resulting D-2HG accumulation leads to hypoxia-inducible factor 1α degradation, and changes in epigenetics and extracellular matrix homeostasis. Such mutations also imply less NADPH production capacity. Each of these effects could play a role in cancer formation. Here, we provide an overview of the literature and discuss which downstream molecular effects are likely to be the drivers of the oncogenic and survival-prolonging properties of IDH1/2 mutations. We discuss interactions between mutant IDH1/2 inhibitors and conventional therapies. Understanding of the biochemical consequences of IDH1/2 mutations in oncogenesis and survival prolongation will yield valuable information for rational therapy design: it will tell us which oncogenic processes should be blocked and which "survivalogenic" effects should be retained.
Mutations of isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 (IDH1) are frequently found in certain cancers such as glioma. Different from the wild-type (WT) IDH1, the mutant enzymes catalyze the reduction of α-ketoglutaric acid to d-2-hydroxyglutaric acid (D2HG), leading to cancer initiation. Several 1-hydroxypyridin-2-one compounds were identified to be inhibitors of IDH1(R132H). A total of 61 derivatives were synthesized, and their structure–activity relationships were investigated. Potent IDH1(R132H) inhibitors were identified with Ki values as low as 140 nM, while they possess weak or no activity against WT IDH1. Activities of selected compounds against IDH1(R132C) were found to be correlated with their inhibitory activities against IDH1(R132H), as well as cellular production of D2HG, with R2 of 0.83 and 0.73, respectively. Several inhibitors were found to be permeable through the blood–brain barrier in a cell-based model assay and exhibit potent and selective activity (EC50 = 0.26–1.8 μM) against glioma cells with the I...
Representative phosphoryl and thiophosphoryl derivatives of ( S )-glutamic or ( S )-2-hydroxyglutaric acid were synthesized and evaluated for their inhibitory potency against the glutamate carboxypeptidase, carboxypeptidase G (CPG). It was observed that the inhibition of CPG was highly sensitive to the individual phosphorus ligands. The most potent inhibitors were the dibasic phosphoryl and thiophosphoryl derivatives of glutamic acid and the monobasic thiophosporyl derivatives of 2-hydroxyglutaric acid.
D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a neurometabolic disorder with mild and severe phenotypes. Recently, we reported pathogenic mutations in the D-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase gene as the cause of the severe phenotype of D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria in two patients. Here, we report two novel pathogenic mutations in this gene in one patient with a mild presentation and two asymptomatic siblings with D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria from two unrelated consanguineous Palestinian families: a splice error (IVS4-2A-->G) and a missense mutation (c.1315A-->G;p.Asn439Asp). Overexpression of this mutant protein showed marked reduction of the enzyme activity.
55 Analysis of DNA promoter alterations in 272 tumors from The Cancer Genome Atlas revealed a distinct set of samples with concerted hypermethylation at a large number of loci. These same samples were also highly associated with IDH1 mutation. 55 These and other data provide evidence suggesting the existence of a glioma -cytosinephosphate-guanine island methylator phenotype (G-CIMP). This phenotype is tightly correlated with both the proneural subgroup and IDH1 mutations. 53 Furthermore, and of particular prognostic relevance in glioma, IDH1 mutations are associated with methylation of the O 6 -methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase Fig. 2 . Relationship between IDH mutations and other genetic alterations in glioma. The timeline represents glioma development from earlier events (top) to later events (bottom). Acquisition of an IDH1 mutation in a common tumor progenitor cell leads to gliomagenesis in the presence of another concurrent molecular feature such as TP53 mutation or 1p/19q codeletion. Tumors may then acquire additional molecular events, such as citrate carrier (CIC) mutation, which cooperate to transform a previously low-grade glioma into a high-grade glioma, such as anaplastic astrocytoma, anaplastic oligodendroglioma, anaplastic oligoastrocytoma, or secondary glioblastoma. 57 Aberrant cellular metabolism and aberrant gene expression affect each other and together drive cancer pathogenesis. The mechanisms by which IDH mutation contributes to the development of cancer are still not completely understood, but some studies indicate that aberrant levels of 2-HG competitively inhibit a-ketoglutarate -dependent dioxygenase enzymes to affect tumorigenesis. 34 Losman et al 58 reported that R-2-HG is sufficient to promote leukemogenesis. It is important to note that IDH1/2 mutation induces the R-enantiomer of 2-HG, whereas it is L-2-HG that increased in patients with L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, a rare autosomal recessive inherited encephalopathy. 59 In addition to 2-HG, aberrant cellular metabolism of nutrients and metabolites also plays a role in driving gliomagenesis, especially metabolism of glucose, glutamine, and NADPH.
PURPOSE ::: Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRspec), one of the very few techniques for in vivo assessment of neuro-metabolic profiles, is often complicated by lack of standard population norms and paucity of computational tools. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: 7035 scans and clinical information from 4430 pediatric patients were collected from 2008 to 2014. Scans were conducted using a 1.5T (n=3664) or 3T scanner (n=3371), and with either a long (144ms, n=5559) or short echo time (35ms, n=1476). 3055 of these scans were localized in the basal ganglia (BG), 1211 in parieto-occipital white matter (WM). 34 metabolites were quantified using LCModel. A web application using MySQL, Python and Flask was developed to facilitate the exploration of the data set. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Already piloting the application revealed numerous insights. (1), N-acetylaspartate (NAA) increased throughout all ages. During early infancy, total choline was highly varied and myo-inositol demonstrated a downward trend. (2), Total creatine (tCr) and creatine increased throughout childhood and adolescence, though phosphocreatine (PCr) remained constant beyond 200days. (3), tCr was higher in BG than WM. (4), No obvious gender-related differences were observed. (5), Field strength affects quantification using LCModel for some metabolites, most prominently for tCr and total NAA. (6), Outlier analysis identified patients treated with vigabatrin through elevated γ-aminobutyrate, and patients with Klippel-Feil syndrome, Leigh disease and L2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria through low choline in BG. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: We have established the largest MRSpec database and developed a robust and flexible computational tool for facilitating the exploration of vast metabolite datasets that proved its value for discovering neurochemical trends for clinical diagnosis, treatment monitoring, and research. Open access will lead to its widespread use, improving the diagnostic yield and contributing to better understanding of metabolic processes and conditions in the brain.
D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (D2HGA) type II is a rare neurometabolic disorder caused by germline gain-of-function mutations in isocitrate dehydrogenase 2 (IDH2), resulting in accumulation of D-2-hydroxyglutarate (D2HG). Patients exhibit a wide spectrum of symptoms including cardiomyopathy, epilepsy, developmental delay and limited life span. Currently, there are no effective therapeutic interventions. We generated a D2HGA type II mouse model by introducing the Idh2R140Q mutation at the native chromosomal locus. Idh2R140Q mice displayed significantly elevated 2HG levels and recapitulated multiple defects seen in patients. AGI-026, a potent, selective inhibitor of the human IDH2R140Q-mutant enzyme, suppressed 2HG production, rescued cardiomyopathy, and provided a survival benefit in Idh2R140Q mice; treatment withdrawal resulted in deterioration of cardiac function. We observed differential expression of multiple genes and metabolites that are associated with cardiomyopathy, which were largely reversed by AGI-026. These findings demonstrate the potential therapeutic benefit of an IDH2R140Q inhibitor in patients with D2HGA type II.
l-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a rare autosomal recessively inherited metabolic disorder of organic acid metabolism. Clinical findings are characterised by progressive neurological syndrome with cerebellar signs, mental deterioration and macrocephaly. Diagnosis is via increased levels of l-2 hydroxyglutaric acid in urine, plasma and cerebrospinal fluid. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) shows peripheral white matter abnormalities in cerebral hemispheres, basal ganglia and dentate nuclei. In this report, we present an rare 8-year-old patient with a rare mental retardation, cerebellar findings, macrocephaly and typical brain MRI findings, who was subsequently diagnosed with l-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. In conclusion, in patients with progressive mental retardation, macrocephaly and cerebral findings, l-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria should be considered in case of deep white matter and dentate nuclei involvement in MRI.
Abstract D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (D2HGA) type II is a rare neurometabolic disorder caused by germline gain-offunction mutations in isocitrate dehydrogenase 2 (IDH2), resulting in accumulation of D-2-hydroxyglutarate (D2HG). Patients exhibit a wide spectrum of symptoms including cardiomyopathy, epilepsy, developmental delay and limited life span. Currently, there are no effective therapeutic interventions. We generated a D2HGA type II mouse model by introducing the Idh2R140Q mutation at the native chromosomal locus. Idh2R140Q mice displayed significantly elevated 2HG levels and recapitulated multiple defects seen in patients. AGI-026, a potent, selective inhibitor of the human IDH2R140Q-mutant enzyme, suppressed 2HG production, rescued cardiomyopathy, and provided a survival benefit in Idh2R140Q mice; treatment withdrawal resulted in deterioration of cardiac function. We observed differential expression of multiple genes and metabolites that are associated with cardiomyopathy, which were largely reversed by AGI-026. These findings demonstrate the potential therapeutic benefit of an IDH2R140Q inhibitor in patients with D2HGA type II.
The recent discovery of heterozygous isocitrate dehydrogenase 2 (IDH2) mutations of residue Arg(140) to Gln(140) or Gly(140) (IDH2(wt/R140Q), IDH2(wt/R140G)) in d-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (D-2-HGA) has defined the primary genetic lesion in 50% of D-2-HGA patients, denoted type II. Overexpression studies with IDH1(R132H) and IDH2(R172K) mutations demonstrated that the enzymes acquired a new function, converting 2-ketoglutarate (2-KG) to d-2-hydroxyglutarate (D-2-HG), in lieu of the normal IDH reaction which reversibly converts isocitrate to 2-KG. To confirm the IDH2(wt/R140Q) gain-of-function in D-2-HGA type II, and to evaluate potential therapeutic strategies, we developed a specific and sensitive IDH2(wt/R140Q) enzyme assay in lymphoblasts. This assay determines gain-of-function activity which converts 2-KG to D-2-HG in homogenates of D-2-HGA type II lymphoblasts, and uses stable-isotope-labeled 2-keto[3,3,4,4-(2)H(4)]glutarate. The specificity and sensitivity of the assay are enhanced with chiral separation and detection of stable-isotope-labeled D-2-HG by ultra performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (UPLC-MS/MS). Eleven potential inhibitors of IDH2(wt/R140Q) enzyme activity were evaluated with this procedure. The mean reaction rate in D-2-HGA type II lymphoblasts was 8-fold higher than that of controls and D-2-HGA type I cells (14.4nmolh(-1)mgprotein(-1) vs. 1.9), with a corresponding 140-fold increase in intracellular D-2-HG level. Optimal inhibition of IDH2(wt/R140Q) activity was obtained with oxaloacetate, which competitively inhibited IDH2(wt/R140Q) activity. Lymphoblast IDH2(wt/R140Q) showed long-term cell culture stability without loss of the heterozygous IDH2(wt/R140Q) mutation, underscoring the utility of the lymphoblast model for future biochemical and therapeutic studies.
Two Pakistani siblings with L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria are reported herein. A 6-year-old male and a 2-year-old female, born to consanguineous parents, had chronic slowly progressive neurodegenerative disorder with insidious onset after infancy. Mental regression and seizures were evident in both patients, whereas cerebellar dysfunction was the main motor handicap in the male and pyramidal symptoms were prominent in the female. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed bilateral symmetrical abnormal signal in the subcortical white matter, internal and external capsules, basal ganglia, and dentate nuclei. The underlying metabolic defect, which is likely inherited in an autosomal recessive mode, remains unknown in this disorder.
The purpose of the present work was to progress in our understanding of the pathophysiology of L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, due to a defect in L-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase, by creating and studying a mouse model of this disease. L-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase-deficient mice (l2hgdh-/-) accumulated L-2-hydroxyglutarate in tissues, most particularly in brain and testis, where the concentration reached ≈ 3.5 μmol/g. Male mice showed a 30% higher excretion of L-2-hydroxyglutarate compared to female mice, supporting that this dicarboxylic acid is partially made in males by lactate dehydrogenase C, a poorly specific form of this enzyme exclusively expressed in testes. Involvement of mitochondrial malate dehydrogenase in the formation of L-2-hydroxyglutarate was supported by the commensurate decrease in the formation of this dicarboxylic acid when down-regulating this enzyme in mouse l2hgdh-/- embryonic fibroblasts. The concentration of lysine and arginine was markedly increased in the brain of l2hgdh-/- adult mice. Saccharopine was depleted and glutamine was decreased by ≈ 40%. Lysine-α-ketoglutarate reductase, which converts lysine to saccharopine, was inhibited by L-2-hydroxyglutarate with a Ki of ≈ 0.8 mM. As low but significant activities of the bifunctional enzyme lysine-α-ketoglutarate reductase/saccharopine dehydrogenase were found in brain, these findings suggest that the classical lysine degradation pathway also operates in brain and is inhibited by the high concentrations of L-2-hydroxyglutarate found in l2hgdh-/- mice. Pathological analysis of the brain showed significant spongiosis. The vacuolar lesions mostly affected oligodendrocytes and myelin sheats, as in other dicarboxylic acidurias, suggesting that the pathophysiology of this model of leukodystrophy may involve irreversible pumping of a dicarboxylate in oligodendrocytes. Neurobehavioral testing indicated that the mice mostly suffered from a deficit in learning capacity. In conclusion, the findings support the concept that L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a disorder of metabolite repair. The accumulation of L-2-hydroxyglutarate exerts toxic effects through various means including enzyme inhibition and glial cell swelling.
The purpose of the present work was to progress in our understanding of the pathophysiology of L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, due to a defect in L-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase, by creating and studying a mouse model of this disease. L-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase-deficient mice (l2hgdh -/-) accumulated L-2-hydroxyglutarate in tissues, most particularly in brain and testis, where the concentration reached 3.5 μmol/g. Male mice showed a 30% higher excretion of L-2-hydroxyglutarate compared to female mice, supporting that this dicarboxylic acid is partially made in males by lactate dehydrogenase C, a poorly specific form of this enzyme exclusively expressed in testes. Involvement of mitochondrial malate dehydrogenase in the formation of L-2-hydroxyglutarate was supported by the commensurate decrease in the formation of this dicarboxylic acid when down-regulating this enzyme in mouse l2hgdh -/-embryonic fibroblasts. The concentration of lysine and arginine was markedly increased in the brain of l2hgdh -/-adult mice. Saccharopine was depleted and glutamine was decreased by 40%. Lysine-α-ketoglutarate reductase, which converts lysine to saccharopine, was inhibited by L-2-hydroxyglutarate with a Ki of 0.8 mM. As low but significant activities of the bifunctional enzyme lysine-α-ketoglutarate reductase/saccharopine dehydrogenase were found in brain, these findings suggest that the classical lysine degradation pathway also operates in brain and is inhibited by the high concentrations of L-2-hydroxyglutarate found in l2hgdh -/-mice. Pathological analysis of the brain showed significant spongiosis. The vacuolar lesions mostly affected oligodendrocytes and myelin sheats, as in other dicarboxylic acidurias, suggesting that the pathophysiology of this model of leukodystrophy may involve irreversible pumping of a dicarboxylate in oligodendrocytes. Neurobehavioral testing indicated that the mice mostly suffered from a deficit in learning capacity. In conclusion, the findings support the concept that L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a disorder of metabolite repair. The accumulation of L-2-hydroxyglutarate exerts toxic effects through various means including enzyme inhibition and glial cell swelling.
Abstract We report of a 15-year-old patient who initially presented to the specialist children's hospital with neurologic problems including developmental delay, behavioral difficulty and poor cognition. Upon organic acid testing, the patient received a diagnosis of L2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L2HGA). Serial MRI scans were performed throughout the patients childhood, demonstrating an evolution of imaging features as the disease progressed. A radiologist's recognition of the key findings associated with L2HGA can help prompt the diagnosis in cases of a nonspecific clinical presentation. This case report highlights the key radiological features associated with L2HGA, whilst illustrating how these changes may evolve and appear over the time course of a patient's journey.
L-2-Hydroxyglutaric acid (LGA) accumulates and is the biochemical hallmark of the neurometabolic disorder L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (LHGA). Although this disease is predominantly characterized by severe neurological findings and pronounced cerebral atrophy, the pathomechanisms of brain injury are virtually unknown. In the present study, we investigated the effect of LGA (0.1-1 mM) on various parameters of the glutamatergic system, namely the basal and potassium-induced release of L-[3H]glutamate by synaptosomal preparations, Na(+)-dependent L-[3H]glutamate uptake by synaptosomal preparations and Na(+)-independent L-[3H]glutamate uptake by synaptic vesicles, as well as of L-[3H]glutamate binding to synaptic plasma membranes from cerebral cortex of male adult Wistar rats. We observed that LGA significantly increased L-[3H]glutamate uptake into synaptosomes and synaptic vesicles, without altering synaptosomal glutamate release and glutamate binding to synaptic plasma membranes. Although more comprehensive studies are necessary to evaluate the exact role of LGA on neurotransmission, our findings do not support a direct excitotoxic action for LGA. Therefore, other abnormalities should be searched for to explain neurodegeneration of LHGA.
Brain MRI a b s t r a c t We report of a 15-year-old patient who initially presented to the specialist children's hospital with neurologic problems including developmental delay, behavioral difficulty and poor cognition. Upon organic acid testing, the patient received a diagnosis of L2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L2HGA).
Nature 462, 739-744 (2010) This Article demonstrates that tumour-associated IDH1 somatic mutations result in a gain of enzyme function that causes the accumulation of R(2)-2-hydroxyglutarate (2HG). We proposed that accumulation of 2HG might drive oncogenesis, and referenced work demonstrating 2HG accumulation in patients with 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria 1 . As a plausible mechanism of oncogenesis, we proposed that R(2)-2HG induces redox stress owing to impairment of the respiratory chain. This hypothesis suggests that R(2)-2HG may promote cancer mutations, and is consistent with the latency observed in glioma development and the fact that gliomas increase in incidence with age. Nonetheless, we do appreciate that there are other possible mechanisms by which R(2)-2HG may promote tumour formation. Further work has identified that the abnormal production of 2HG is associated with tumours bearing a mutation in either IDH1 or IDH2 and supports a link between 2HG accumulation and cancer. So far, we have not found any tumour samples containing IDH1 or IDH2 mutations that do not have increased 2HG levels. Determining the mechanistic link between 2HG accumulation and cancer formation, and how each stereoisomer of 2HG may drive malignancy by the same or distinct mechanism is the subject of continuing investigation by our group and others.
The 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (2-HGA) is a rare neurometabolic disorder that leads to the development of brain damage. It is classified into three categories: D-2-HGA, L-2-HGA, and combined D,L-2-HGA. The D-2-HGA includes two subtypes: type I and type II caused by the mutations in D2HGDH and IDH2 proteins, respectively. In this study, we studied six mutations, four in the D2HGDH (I147S, D375Y, N439D, and V444A) and two in the IDH2 proteins (R140G, R140Q). We performed in silico analysis to investigate the pathogenicity and stability changes of the mutant proteins using pathogenicity (PANTHER, PhD-SNP, SIFT, SNAP, and META-SNP) and stability (i-Mutant, MUpro, and iStable) predictors. All the mutations of both D2HGDH and IDH2 proteins were predicted as disease causing except V444A, which was predicted as neutral by SIFT. All the mutants were also predicted to be destabilizing the protein except the mutants D375Y and N439D. DSSP plugin of the PyMOL and Molecular Dynamics Simulations (MDS) were used to study the structural changes in the mutant proteins. In the case of D2HGDH protein, the mutations I147S and V444A that are positioned in the beta sheet region exhibited higher Root Mean Square Deviation (RMSD), decrease in compactness and number of intramolecular hydrogen bonds compared to the mutations N439D and D375Y that are positioned in the turn and loop region, respectively. While the mutants R140Q and R140QG that are positioned in the alpha helix region of the protein. MDS results revealed the mutation R140Q to be more destabilizing (higher RMSD values, decrease in compactness and number of intramolecular hydrogen bonds) compared to the mutation R140G of the IDH2 protein. This study is expected to serve as a platform for drug development against 2-HGA and pave the way for more accurate variant assessment and classification for patients with genetic diseases.
L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria was diagnosed in a 9-month-old female infant after a complex febrile convulsion with subsequent transient left-sided hemiplegia. The symptoms were consistent with acute hemiconvulsion-hemiplegia-epilepsy syndrome. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain revealed distinct white-matter abnormalities in the bifrontal and bioccipital periventricular area and increased signal intensity in the lenticular, caudate, and dentate nuclei, consistent with L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. Increased concentrations of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid were detected in the urine, plasma, and cerebrospinal fluid. The patient was homozyous for the p.Lys81Glu (c.241A>G) missense mutation in the L-2-HGA gene, confirming the diagnosis of L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. Acute hemiconvulsion-hemiplegia-epilepsy syndrome has not been reported as a presenting feature in L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. In patients with prolonged or complicated febrile seizures such as hemiconvulsion-hemiplegia-epilepsy syndrome,...
A series of 3-(7-azainodyl)-4-indolylmaleimides was designed, synthesized, and evaluated for their isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 (IDH1)/R132H inhibitory activities. Many compounds such as 11a, 11c, 11e, 11g, and 11s exhibited favorable inhibitory effects on IDH1/R132H and were highly selective against the wild-type IDH1. Evaluation of the biological activities at the cellular level showed that compounds 11a, 11c, 11e, 11g, and 11s could effectively suppress the production of 2-hydroxyglutaric acid in U87MG cells expressing IDH1/R132H. Preliminary structure-activity relationship (SAR) and molecular modeling studies were discussed based on the experimental data obtained. These findings may provide new insights into the development of novel IDH1/R132H inhibitors.
INTRODUCTION ::: L-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L-2-HGA) is an autosomal recessive neurometabolic disease with a slowly progressive course and characterized by increased levels of hydroxyglutaric acid in urine, cerebrospinal fluid and plasma. In this condition clinical features mainly consist of mental deterioration, ataxia and motor deficits. ::: ::: ::: CASE OUTLINE ::: The patient is a 16-year-old girl, the first and only child of healthy, non-consanguineous parents of Serbian origin. At the age of 4 years her walk became unsteady and ataxic. Other signs of cerebellar involvement were soon observed. Head circumference was above two standard deviations (55 cm). Mild mental retardation was revealed by formal intelligence testing (IQ 60). MR examination of the brain showed confluent subcortical white matter lesions spread centripetally, and atrophy of the cerebellar vermis with involvement of dentate nuclei, without deep white matter abnormalities. Laboratory investigation revealed increased amounts and a very large peak of HGA in urine and plasma. Enantiomeric analysis confirmed the L-configuration (> 90%) establishing the diagnosis of L-2-HGA. The first epileptic seizure, partial with secondary generalization, occurred at age of 8 years. Favorable seizure control was achieved. A slow progression of neurological impairment was noted. Therapeutic trials with oral coenzyme Q10 and with oral riboflavin showed no biochemical and clinical effects. Recently, the diagnosis was proven by the presence of a mutation in the L-2-HGA gene. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: To our knowledge, this is the first report of L-2-HGA in Serbia. L-2-HGA must be considered in the differential diagnosis based on specific findings in cranial MRI.
D-2-Hydroxyglutaric Aciduria is a rare metabolic disorder that can cause injury to the brain and other organs. This case report concerns a 14-year-old boy showing irritability and typical signs of pyloric stenosis early postnatally. From the age of 3 months he had epilepsy. He was mentally retarded, hypotonic with preserved reflexes, and dystonic. The features were dysmorphic with elongated head and high arched palate. Cardiomegaly with aortic insufficiency was diagnosed. Magnetic resonance imaging of the brain revealed atrophy, reduced periventricular white matter, and multiple bilateral aneurysms of the middle cerebral arteries. The boy died at the age of 14 years. Autopsy confirmed the white-matter reduction of the cerebral hemispheres as well as the arterial aneurysms of the middle cerebral arteries. Lesions of a few leptomeningeal and cerebral microvessels and of the renal and pulmonary arteries were also found. There were bilateral infarcts of the kidneys and signs of cardiomyopathy with noncompensated left ventricular failure. Signs of myopathy were evident. The clinical and postmortem findings imply a disseminated mesenchymal process.
l-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L2HGA) is a rare, autosomal recessive disease caused by a deficiency of l-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase (L2HGDH). This membrane-bound mitochondrial enzyme is prominently expressed in the brain1 and catalyzes the conversion of l-2-hydroxyglutaricacid (L2HG) to 2-ketoglutarate. The exact function is unknown, but the lack of L2HGDH is toxic by inducing oxidative stress and inhibiting mitochondrial creatine kinase in the cerebellum.2 Commonly, symptoms appear during infancy as slowly progressing deficits including psychomotor retardation, cerebellar ataxia, and epilepsy3; however, an acute worsening in adulthood has been described.4 A diagnosis can be achieved through the detection of elevated L2HG in the urine3,5 and although no treatment guidelines exist, positive effects were reported following treatment with flavin adenine dinucleotide in combination with levocarnitine or riboflavin.6,7 ::: ::: We report the case of a young woman with L2HGA, presenting with a fast progressive cerebellar syndrome that could be halted by a low lysine diet. ::: ::: ### Case report. ::: ::: A 24-year-old patient presented with a progressive movement disorder and a disabling tremor of the right hand that began 1.5 years ago. Her mother reported delayed motor and mental development …
Introduction L-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L-2-HGA) is an autosomal recessive neurometabolic disease with a slowly progressive course and characterized by increased levels of hydroxyglutaric acid in urine, cerebrospinal fluid and plasma. In this condition clinical features mainly consist of mental deterioration, ataxia and motor deficits. Case Outline The patient is a 16-year-old girl, the first and only child of healthy, non-consanguineous parents of Serbian origin. At the age of 4 years her walk became unsteady and ataxic. Other signs of cerebellar involvement were soon observed. Head circumference was above two standard deviations (55 cm). Mild mental retardation was revealed by formal intelligence testing (IQ 60). MR examination of the brain showed confluent subcortical white matter lesions spread centripetally, and atrophy of the cerebellar vermis with involvement of dentate nuclei, without deep white matter abnormalities. Laboratory investigation revealed increased amounts and a very large peak of HGA in urine and plasma. Enantiomeric analysis confirmed the L-configuration (>90%) establishing the diagnosis of L-2-HGA. The first epileptic seizure, partial with secondary generalization, occurred at age of 8 years. Favorable seizure control was achieved. A slow progression of neurological impairment was noted. Therapeutic trials with oral coenzyme Q10 and with oral riboflavin showed no biochemical and clinical effects. Recently, the diagnosis was proven by the presence of a mutation in the L-2-HGA gene. Conclusion To our knowledge, this is the first report of L-2-HGA in Serbia. L-2-HGA must be considered in the differential diagnosis based on specific findings in cranial MRI.
Objective ::: L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a genetic metabolic disorder. Its clinical features include elevated levels of hydroxyglutaric acid in body fluids and abnormal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in the subcortical white matter, which are affected by the accumulation of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid.
We describe a liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry assay for measurement of D-2-hydroxyglutaric acid and L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid. These metabolites are increased in specific inborn errors of metabolism and are now recognized as oncometabolites. The measurement of D-2-hydroxyglutarate in peripheral blood may be used as a biomarker for screening and follow-up of patients with IDH-mutated acute myeloid leukemia.
Recessive mutations in SLC25A1 encoding mitochondrial citrate carrier cause a rare inherited metabolic disorder, combined D,L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (D,L-2-HGA), characterized by epileptic encephalopathy, respiratory insufficiency, developmental arrest and early death. Here, we describe two siblings compound heterozygotes for null/missense SLC25A1 mutations, c.18_24dup (p.Ala9Profs*82), and c.134C>T (p.Pro45Leu). These children presented with classic clinical features of D,L-2-HGA, but also showed marked facial dysmorphism. Additionally, there was prominent lactic acidosis in one of the siblings. Our observations suggest that facial dysmorphism is a previously unrecognized but an important diagnostic feature of SLC25A1 deficiency and expand the clinical phenotype linked to SLC25A1 mutations.
Patients with L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria are at risk for developing cerebral neoplasms, particularly gliomas, as one of the optical isomers of the known oncometabolite, 2-hydroxyglutarate is produced in L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. To illustrate the concept of sustained oncogenic potential in permanent exposure to L-2-hydroxyglutarate in brain tissue, we present the medical history of a patient with L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria who underwent surgery to remove a right temporal anaplastic astrocytoma and developed an anatomically distinct, but histopathologically similar, tumor in the left frontal region 40 months later. This is the first reported case of successive distinct gliomas in a patient with L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. While this implies a significant, cumulative lifetime risk for cerebral neoplasms in patients with this rare organic aciduria, it also allows further insight into a unique mechanism of tumorigenesis in the brain.
Congenital myasthenic syndromes (CMS) are a clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of disorders caused by mutations which lead to impaired neuromuscular transmission. SLC25A1 encodes a mitochondrial citrate carrier, associated mainly with the severe neurometabolic disease combined D-2- and L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (D/L-2-HGA). We previously reported a single family with a homozygous missense variant in SLC25A1 with a phenotype restricted to relatively mild CMS with intellectual disability, but to date no additional cases of this CMS subtype had been reported. Here, we performed whole exome sequencing (WES) in three additional and unrelated families presenting with CMS and mild intellectual disability to identify the underlying causative gene. The WES analysis revealed the presence of a homozygous c.740G>A; p.(Arg247Gln) missense SLC25A1 variant, the same SLC25A1 variant as identified in the original family with this phenotype. Electron microscopy of muscle from two cases revealed enlarged and accumulated mitochondria. Haplotype analysis performed in two unrelated families suggested that this variant is a result of recurrent mutation and not a founder effect. This suggests that p.(Arg247Gln) is associated with a relatively mild CMS phenotype with subtle mitochondrial abnormalities, while other variants in this gene cause more severe neurometabolic disease. In conclusion, the p.(Arg247Gln) SLC25A1 variant should be considered in patients presenting with a presynaptic CMS phenotype, particularly with accompanying intellectual disability.
Abstract Patients with L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria are at risk for developing cerebral neoplasms, particularly gliomas, as one of the optical isomers of the known oncometabolite, 2-hydroxyglutarate is produced in L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. To illustrate the concept of sustained oncogenic potential in permanent exposure to L-2-hydroxyglutarate in brain tissue, we present the medical history of a patient with L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria who underwent surgery to remove a right temporal anaplastic astrocytoma and developed an anatomically distinct, but histopathologically similar, tumor in the left frontal region 40 months later. This is the first reported case of successive distinct gliomas in a patient with L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. While this implies a significant, cumulative lifetime risk for cerebral neoplasms in patients with this rare organic aciduria, it also allows further insight into a unique mechanism of tumorigenesis in the brain.
L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (OMIM: 236792) is a rare inborn error of metabolism with autosomal recessive inheritance. Only 300 cases have been reported since the initial description in 1980 (Duran et al 1980) and 1992 (Barth et al 1992) . The condition is caused by mutation of the L2HGDH g e n e , ( To p c u e t a l 2 0 0 4 ) w h i c h e n c o d e s L -2 -hydroxydehydrogenase, a FAD-linked mitochondrial membrane enzyme (Rzem et al 2004) that normally catalyzes the conversion of L-2-hydroxyglutarate to alpha-ketoglutarate. Mutation leads to deficient enzyme production and, thus, to excess L-2-hydroxyglutarate accumulation in affected cells and body fluids. The L2HGDH gene is strongly expressed in t h e C N S ; t h u s , t h e c o m b i n a t i o n o f L -2 -hydroxydehydrogenase deficiency and the resultant L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria is often referred to as a "neurometabolic disorder". This has a protracted clinical course characterized by cognitive and motor delay, epilepsy, and cerebellar and extrapyramidal signs, but unlike most other organic acidurias, without episodes of systemic metabolic decompensation. The tissue specificity and relatively mild symptomatology often allow patients to live into adulthood without systemic manifestations.
L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria demonstrates pathognomonic findings on MRI. These include white and gray matter abnormalities (D'Incerti et al 1998; Steenweg et al 2009) that are typically present by childhood and progress very slowly (Topcu et al 2005; Steenweg et al 2009) . For this reason and because the metabolic disease is untreatable and not complicated by episodes of metabolic decompensation, regular imaging for patients with L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria has not been advocated.
Patients with L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria have an increased risk for the development of cerebral neoplasms (Moroni et al 2004) . However, given that a prospective, longitudinal follow-up study has not been done, the suggested 5 % to 40 % risk of developing a cerebral neoplasm (Patay et al 2012) may be an underestimate of the actual cumulative lifetime risk. Because exposure to L-2-hydroxyglutarate is continuous in patients with L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, it is conceivable that they remain at risk for tumorigenesis throughout their entire lives. Here, we report the case of a patient with L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria who developed two successive high-grade diffuse gliomas at different cerebral locations three years apart. These findings substantiate the possibility of multiple, sequentially developing CNS neoplasms; hence provide a rationale for a surveillance strategy in patients with L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria.
Congenital myasthenic syndromes (CMS) are a clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of disorders caused by mutations which lead to impaired neuromuscular transmission. SLC25A1 encodes a mitochondrial citrate carrier, associated mainly with the severe neurometabolic disease combined D-2-and L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (D/L-2-HGA). We previously reported a single family with a homozygous missense variant in SLC25A1 with a phenotype restricted to relatively mild CMS with intellectual disability, but to date no additional cases of this CMS subtype had been reported. Here, we performed whole exome sequencing (WES) in three additional and unrelated families presenting with CMS and mild intellectual disability to identify the underlying causative gene. The WES analysis revealed the presence of a homozygous c.740G>A; p.(Arg247Gln) missense SLC25A1 variant, the same SLC25A1 variant as identified in the original family with this phenotype. Electron microscopy of muscle from two cases revealed enlarged and accumulated mitochondria. Haplotype analysis performed in two unrelated families suggested that this variant is a result of recurrent mutation and not a founder effect. This suggests that p. (Arg247Gln) is associated with a relatively mild CMS phenotype with subtle mitochondrial abnormalities, while other variants in this gene cause more severe neurometabolic disease. In conclusion, the p.(Arg247Gln) SLC25A1 variant should be considered in patients presenting with a presynaptic CMS phenotype, particularly with accompanying intellectual disability.
L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L2HGA) is a chronic slowly progressive neurodegenerative disease characterized mainly by psychomotor developmental delay and cerebellar dysfunction. We report the clinical, biochemical, and neuroimaging features of 29 patients from 22 families. The mean age at the time of diagnosis was 13.4 years (2.5-32 years). The mean follow-up period of patients was four years (1.5-16 years). The main clinical findings were mental retardation and cerebellar involvement with ataxic gait and intentional tremor. Additional findings were mental retardation, macrocephaly and seizures. Diagnosis was confirmed by increased urinary excretion of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid in all patients and highly specific magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) pattern showing subcortical leukoencephalopathy with bilateral high signal intensity in dentate nuclei and putamens. During the follow-up period, all patients had a static encephalopathy course. The underlying metabolic defect and the possible role of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid are studied in a subgroup of these families and under evaluation for publication.
Abstract We report on an infant with d -2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, who presented with severe seizures and developmental delay. We reviewed the literature for 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria and found six other patients with the d -isomer and 24 patients with the l -isomer. Although the clinical spectrum of this inborn error of metabolism is variable, the clinical course of the d -form seems to be more severe than this of the l -form.
Mutations in isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH), a key enzyme in the tricarboxylic acid cycle, have recently been found in ∼75% glioma and ∼20% acute myeloid leukemia. Different from the wild-type enzyme, mutant IDH1 catalyzes the reduction of α-ketoglutaric acid to d-2-hydroxyglutaric acid. Strong evidence has shown mutant IDH1 represents a novel target for this type of cancer. We found two 1-hydroxypyridin-2-one compounds that are potent inhibitors of R132H and R132C IDH1 mutants with Ki values as low as 120 nM. These compounds exhibit >60-fold selectivity against wild-type IDH1 and can inhibit the production of d-2-hydroxyglutaric acid in IDH1 mutated cells, representing novel chemical probes for cancer biology studies. We also report the first inhibitor-bound crystal structures of IDH1(R132H), showing these inhibitors have H-bond, electrostatic, and hydrophobic interactions with the mutant enzyme. Comparison with the substrate-bound IDH1 structures revealed the structural basis for the high enzyme selecti...
One of the causes of infantile seizures can be an inborn eiTor of metabolism. 2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a rare neurometabolic disorder that frequently is characterized by seizures and developmental delay. The D-form o f this disorder is very exceptional.
We report on a m ale infant with a D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria and review the literature on 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria.
Our patient fits into the D-form o f 2-hydroxyg]utaric aciduria. Reviewing the literature of the 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria one of the first remarks is that clinical information is not always complete. Seven patients with the D-form and 24 patients with the L-form are described. Most of the patients with the D-form have an early onset of the symp toms with a severe developmental delay and refractory epilepsy, However there are two patients with the D-form without neurological symptoms. No correlation has been found between the concentration of the 2-hydroxyglutaric acid in the body fluids and the severity of the disease, Nevertheless we think that especially in infants with re fractory epilepsy and developmental delay with hypotonia, one should think at D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria as a possible etiology.
A 9-year-old girl presented to us with insidious onset difficulty in walking, recurrent falls, anxiety, and poor scholastic performance from age 5 years. Her MRI findings (figure) were classic of L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L2-HGA). However, similar findings are also seen in Leigh syndrome, 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaric aciduria, and succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency. Urine analysis showed elevated levels of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid, which confirmed the diagnosis. L2-HGA is a rare autosomal recessive metabolic disorder due to deficiency of L-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase.1 The characteristic MRI findings in this condition are bilateral symmetrical basal ganglia and dentate nuclei involvement along with subcortical white matter abnormality.2
As the title indicates, this chapter comprises a mixed group of six individual organic acidurias. Two are disturbances of the citric acid cycle (2-ketoglutaric aciduria and fumaric aciduria). Two further organic acidurias are characterised by excretion of high levels of 2-hydroxyglutaric acid: D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria and L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. The other two organic acidurias described in this chapter are malonic aciduria and N-acetylaspartic aciduria (Canavan disease).
Abstract The prenatal diagnosis of two subsequent pregnancies of the mother of a patient homozygous for a mutation in the l -2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase gene is described. In the first pregnancy, measurement of l -2-hydroxyglutaric acid in amniotic fluid revealed an affected fetus. This pregnancy was terminated. In the prenatal diagnosis of the second pregnancy, mutational analysis was also included and proved to be of pivotal importance. Despite mildly increased levels of l -2-hydroxyglutaric acid in the amniotic fluid, the fetus was heterozygous for this mutation thus excluding l -2-HGA.
In a study conducted by Smuts et al. (2013) a putative urinary biosignature for RCD was proposed that consists of six amino acids (alanine, glycine, glutamic acid, serine, tyrosine and a-aminoadipic acid), six organic acids (3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaric acid, 3-hydroxyisovaleric acid, 3-hydroxyisobutyric acid, 2-hydroxyglutaric acid, succinic acid and lactic acid) and creatine. However, the control group used in this and related studies (Reinecke et al. 2012) consisted of clinically healthy patients. This signature can therefore not be applied to limit the inclusion of false positive patients (i.e. patients with clinical features compatible with a mitochondrial disease, but who will eventually have a negative enzyme result on the muscle biopsy) for enzyme analysis. For this reason, the aim of this study was to use an untargeted LC-MS metabolomics approach to investigate RCDs and generate a putative biosignature to use as secondary filter in the selection process of clinically suspected RCD patients to undergo muscle biopsy. This metabolic signature should thus be able to differentiate between patients with a positive enzyme result in muscle (true positive) and patients with normal enzyme results in muscle (true negative).
Quantitative assay of l-2-hydroxyglutaric acid (l-2-HGA) is important for the diagnosis of l-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. Three enantioselective, potentiometric membrane electrodes (EPMEs) based on maltodextrins with different dextrose equivalent (DE) (DE: 4.0-7.0 (I), 13.0-17.0 (II), 16.5-19.5 (III)), were designed for the enantioanalysis of l-2-HGA. The enantioselective, potentiometric membrane electrodes can be used reliably for enantiopurity assay of l-2-HGA using the direct potentiometric method in the ranges of 10(-9)-10(-5), 10(-6)-10(-3) and 10(-8)-10(-5)molL(-1) for the enantioselective, potentiometric membrane electrodes based on maltodextrins I, II and III, respectively, with very low detection limits. A high reliability was obtained when the electrodes were used for the assay of l-2-HGA in urine samples.
L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L2HGA), which is a rare autosomal recessive metabolic disorder caused by mutations in the encoding L2HGDH gene. Neurological symptoms are the main predominant clinical signs. The distinctive feature is the specific multifocal lesion of the white matter detected on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). A 7-year-old male patient of Turkish origin was admitted to the hospital because of hand tremors. Physical examination revealed macrocephaly, intention tremors, walking disability and ataxic gait. Urine organic acid analysis showed increased excretion of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid (L2HG acid). Analysis of the L2HGDH gene revealed a novel homozygous c.368A>G, p. (Tyr123Cys) mutation. L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a cerebral organic aciduria that may lead to various neurological complications. Early recognition of symptoms of L2HGA is important for initiation of supportive therapy that may slow down the progression of the disease.
Metaphyseal chondromatosis with D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (MC-HGA) (OMIM 614875) is a severe chondrodysplasia combined with a urinary excretion of D-2-hydroxyglutaric acid. Here, we reported the tenth case of this disease. A 15-year-old boy had symmetric radiolulencies in the metaphyses of the long bones suggesting enchondromatosis and platyspondyly. Remarkably, he manifested widespread cavernous hemangiomas including scalp, lips, tongue, larynx, and prepuce, with the onset of 3 years of age. Hemangiomas at the larynx had caused dyspnea and those in the oral cavity led to recurrent bleeding, requiring several surgical removals. These multiple and debilitating hemangiomas have never been previously reported in patients with MC-HGA. Mutation analyses including Sanger sequencing of genes involving in enchondromatosis and the metabolic pathway of D-2-hydroxyglutarate including PTHR1, D2HGDH, HOT, and IDH1, as well as whole-exome sequencing for proband-parent trio analysis and paired blood versus hemangioma studies showed no pathogenic variants. In summary, we reported the tenth patient with MC-HGA who manifested widespread and debilitating hemangiomas in several organs, expanding the clinical spectrum of MC-HGA.
Mutations in isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 and 2 (IDH1, IDH2) have been described in low-grade glioma and in acute myeloid leukemia. Accumulation of the oncometabolite D-2-hydroxyglutaric acid (2HG) and its release into the blood is associated with dilated cardiomyopathy. The mechanisms leading to changes in cardiac metabolism and contractile function are unknown. We studied in the isolated working rat heart preparation metabolic consequences of increased 2HG supply and its impact on cardiac energy provision. In combination with physiological levels of glucose (5mM) and lactate (0.5mM), hearts were perfused at different concentrations with 2HG (0.5mM, 1.0mM). We confirmed the uptake and enrichment of 2HG in the tissue through liquid chromatography followed by mass spectrometry (LC/MS). 2HG markedly decreased cardiac power and cardiac efficiency in a concentration dependent manner. At the same time glucose oxidation increased significantly (1.4±0.1 μmol/min/g dry wt, p<0.05) at higher workloads. The alpha-Ket...
L-2-HYDROXYGLUTARIC aciduria (L-2-HGA) is an autosomal recessive inborn error of metabolism. Most inborn errors of metabolism are rare, require specialised testing for diagnosis and are rapidly fatal (Sewell and others 2007), which means they are not particularly relevant to a general practitioner. However, general practitioners should have a good working knowledge of L-2-HGA for three reasons. ::: ::: First, this is not a particularly rare condition; approximately 10 per cent of Staffordshire bull terriers (SBTs) in the UK and Finland carry at least one defective copy of the L-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase gene (L-2- HGDH) (Short and others 2010), that is, are heterozygotes. In a paper summarised on p 545 in this issue of Veterinary Record , Shea and others (2016) report that at least 122 SBTs with L-2-HGA (ie, homozygous recessive dogs) were identified in the UK between 2005 and 2015. That is 12 dogs a year. As a comparison, 30 to 40 vaccine-associated sarcoma were reported to the Veterinary Medicine's Directorate annually between 2003 and 2006 and, most vets are aware of this. Affected dogs typically only manifest signs severe enough to prompt presentation to a vet when the dog is in adulthood. This enzymopathy is rarely fatal, so affected dogs will visit their vet many times for routine care. Therefore many vets in general practice in the UK at some point may be presented with a …
L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L2HGA), which is a rare autosomal recessive metabolic disorder caused by mutations in the encoding L2HGDH gene. Neurological symptoms are the main predominant clinical signs. The distinctive feature is the specific multifocal lesion of the white matter detected on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). A 7-year-old male patient of Turkish origin was admitted to the hospital because of hand tremors. Physical examination revealed macrocephaly, intention tremors, walking disability and ataxic gait. Urine organic acid analysis showed increased excretion of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid (L2HG acid). Analysis of the L2HGDH gene revealed a novel homozygous c.368A>G, p. (Tyr123Cys) mutation. L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a cerebral organic aciduria that may lead to various neurological complications. Early recognition of symptoms of L2HGA is important for initiation of supportive therapy that may slow down the progression of the disease.
L-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L-2-HGA) is an autosomal recessive neurometabolic disorder characterized by psychomotor delay, ataxia, macrocephaly and typical neuroradiological findings of subcortical leucoencephalopathy. Recently, the disease causing gene has been discovered (L2HGDH) encoding L-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase. We present a 3-year-old boy with L-2-HGA, who demonstrated macrocephaly, noted already in utero with ultrasound. Cranial MRI demonstrated diffuse subcortical encephalopathy with increased signal of the subcortical white matter. Subsequent metabolic screening revealed increased levels of L-2-HGA, and genomic DNA analysis demonstrated two missense mutations in L-2-HGDG. Patient’s further motor development was mildly impaired, whilst his speech development was profoundly impaired (first words at the age of 2 years). Since the age of 2 years he started demonstrating autistic repetitive behaviors and movements, increasing aloofness to his environment and limitations in the variety of spontaneous activity (CARS score: 44/60-severe autism). Autism has not so far been described in L-2-HGA and may be considered as an additional feature of the phenotypic spectrum. 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
L-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a recently discovered inherited neurometabolic disease for which diagnostic identification of the right enantiomer is required. A method is described where alkyl esters of both L-and D-2-hydroxyglutaric acids are prepared without side lactonization. Esterification is achieved at room temperature by reaction with appropriate alkyl chloroformates. This method avoids lactonization, in contrast to esterification with alcohols in acidic media or with diazomethane. The identity of the derivatives is established by HRGC-FTIR and HRGC-MS. Chiral HRGC separation with capillaries coated with 1(R)-trans-N-N'-1,2-cyclohexylenebisbenzamideoligodimethyL-siloxane and with a cyclodextrin is compared. The method is adequate for quantitative determinations.
We report two adult Japanese sisters with L-2-hydroxy-glutaric aciduria (acidemia), both of whom were much older (aged 57, 47 years old) than previously reported patients (from neonate to 44 years old), and who presented with differing severity. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed typical subcortical white matter lesions in both cases and showed brainstem atrophy and thickness of the calvarium in the elder sister. L-2-Hydroxyglutaric acid levels were increased in urine, plasma, and cerebrospinal fluid. These cases suggest that organic acid analysis is necessary even in elderly patients who seem to have neurodegenerative disorders.
d-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria (d-2-HGA) is a neurometabolic disorder characterized by elevated levels of d-2-hydroxyglutarate (d-2-HG) in physiological fluids. Recent findings revealed that mutations in the D2HGDH gene, encoding d-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase, cause d-2-HGA. So far, a functionalenzyme assay to determine d-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase activity, converting d-2-HG into 2-ketoglutarate (2-KG), has been unavailable. We have now developed a unique enzyme assay for the determination of d-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase activity in cells derived from d-2-HGA patients and controls. The enzyme assay was performed using enantiomerically pure stable-isotope-labelled d-2-hydroxy[3,3,4,4-2H4]glutarate. This substrate is convertedby d-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase into 2-[3,3,4,4-2H4]ketoglutarate, which is subsequently converted into l-[3,3,4,4-2H4]glutamate by l-glutamate dehydrogenase, present in saturating amounts in cell homogenates. Enzyme activities were quantified using LC-MS/MS. The mean activities in control fibroblast and lymphoblast homogenates were 298 ± 207 and 1670 ± 940 pmol/h per mg protein, respectively. In fibroblast and lymphoblast cell lines derived from patients with pathogenic mutations in the D2HGDH gene, considerably decreased enzyme activities (e.g. <41 pmol/h per mg protein) were found compared with controls. This enzyme assay will have additional utility in further differentiating patients with d-2-HGA and l-2-HGA and in assessing the residual activities linked to pathogenic mutations in the D2HGDH gene.
Mutations of the mitochondrial citrate carrier (CIC) SLC25A1 cause combined D-2- and L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (DL-2HGA; OMIM #615182), a neurometabolic disorder characterized by developmental delay, hypotonia, and seizures. Here, we describe the female child of consanguineous parents who presented neonatally with lactic acidosis, periventricular frontal lobe cysts, facial dysmorphism, recurrent apneic episodes, and deficient complex IV (cytochrome c oxidase) activity in skeletal muscle. Exome sequencing revealed a homozygous SLC25A1 missense mutation [NM_005984.4: c.593G>A; p.(Arg198His)] of a ubiquitously conserved arginine residue putatively situated within the substrate-binding site I of CIC. Retrospective review of the patient's organic acids confirmed the D- and L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria typical of DL-2HGA to be present, although this was not appreciated on initial presentation. Cultured patient skin fibroblasts showed reduced survival in culture, diminished mitochondrial spare respiratory capacity, increased glycolytic flux, and normal mitochondrial bulk, inner membrane potential, and network morphology. Neither cell survival nor cellular respiratory parameters were improved by citrate supplementation, although oral citrate supplementation did coincide with amelioration of lactic acidosis and apneic attacks in the patient. This is the fifth clinical report of CIC deficiency to date. The clinical features in our patient suggest that this disorder, which can potentially be recognized either by molecular means or based on its characteristic organic aciduria, should be considered in the differential diagnosis of pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency and respiratory chain disorders. One-Sentence Summary A novel homozygous missense substitution in SLC25A1 was identified in a neonate presenting with lactic acidosis, intracerebral cysts, and an apparent mitochondrial complex IV defect in muscle.
L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a rare genetic neurometabolic disease. It occurs in childhood with mental retardation, cerebellar ataxia, and epilepsy. Macrocephaly is present in half of the cases. Diagnosis is based on clinical symptoms, biological and radiological findings, and molecular testing. Specific treatments can improve the spontaneous progression of the disease. We examined two independent patients who presented with L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. Clinical presentation led to cerebral MRI and urinary organic acid chromatography. The genetic analysis confirmed the diagnosis. Under specific treatment, the progression of the disease was subsequently stopped. L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria shares common symptoms with other genetic and metabolic diseases. However, the association of a distinct phenotype and typical MRI abnormalities (such as a high signal in the subcortical white matter, pallidum, and dentate nuclei) should draw the clinician's attention to this diagnosis. It can easily be suspected with a simple urinary analysis and can then be confirmed by genetic testing. With this case report, we show the importance of genetic identification to begin treatment with riboflavin. Early detection of L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria based on MRI abnormalities can enable rapid initiation of treatment and prevent disease progression.
l-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L-2-HGA) is a rare inherited neurometabolic disorder.1 The disease is characterized clinically by cerebellar ataxia, intellectual decline, leukoencephalopathy, and elevation of l-2-hydroxyglutaric acid (L-2-HG) and lysine in plasma and CSF.2 The metabolic pathway of L-2-HG in humans is poorly characterized, and there is no effective treatment for L-2-HGA. We report an adult case of L-2-HGA that was successfully treated with flavin adenine dinucleotide sodium (FAD) and levocarnitine chloride. ::: ::: ### Case report. ::: ::: The patient had been born after an uncomplicated full-term pregnancy and delivery. Her parents were healthy and not consanguineous. She was not developmentally delayed during her first decade. Mild intellectual delay was noticed in her elementary school age, but she graduated from high school. She developed action tremor of both hands and unstable gait at age 41. On admission to our hospital at age 43, she presented with no dysmorphism, macrocephaly, or organomegaly. Full-scale IQ was 47 on the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale–Revised. She had no weakness, but mild spasticity in the limbs. Deep tendon reflexes were generally brisk and no pathologic reflexes were elicited. She presented with mild dystonia in the lower limbs, and marked dystonia in the neck and left upper limbs when standing and walking. Her gait was slightly unsteady. She had action tremor of both …
Summary: We report D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria in a neonate with intracranial haemorrhage and absence of the corpus callosum. D-2-hydroxyglutaric acid was confirmed by specific chiral derivatization gas chromatography–mass spectrometry. Absence of the corpus callosum and spontaneous neonatal intracranial haemorrhage should raise the suspicion for metabolic disease, and especially organic acidurias.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES ::: L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a neurometabolic disorder with autosomal recessive mode of inheritance in which patients exhibit elevated L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid in body fluids, central nervous system manifestations, and increased risk of brain tumor formation. Mutations in L2HGDH gene have been described in L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria patients of different ethnicities. The present study was conducted to perform a detailed clinical, imaging and genetic analysis. ::: ::: ::: DESIGN AND SETTINGS ::: A cross-sectional clinical genetic study of 16 L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria patients from 4 Arab consanguineous families examined at the metabolic clinic of the hospital. ::: ::: ::: PATIENTS AND METHODS ::: Genomic DNA was isolated from the blood of 12 patients and 10 unaffected family members, and the L2HGDH gene was sequenced. DNA sequences were compared to the L2HGDH reference sequence from GenBank. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: All patients exhibit characteristic clinical, biochemical, and imaging features of L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, and 4 patients exhibited increased incidence of brain tumors. The sequencing of the L2HGDH gene revealed the c.1015delA, c.1319C > A, and c.169G > A mutations in these patients. These mutations encode for the p.Arg339AspfsX351, p.Ser440Tyr, and p.Gly57Arg changes in the L2HGDH protein, respectively. The c.169G > A mutation, which was shown to have a common origin in Italian and Portuguese patients, was also discovered in Arab patients. Finding of the homozygous c.159T SNP associated with the c.169G > A mutation in Arab patients points to an independent origin of this mutation in Arab population. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: The detailed description of clinical manifestations and L2HGDH mutation in this study is useful for diagnosis of L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria in Arab patients. While reoccurrence of an L2HGDH mutation in L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria patients of different ethnicity is extremely rare, the c.169G mutation has an independent origin in Arab patients. It is likely that this mutation may also be present in patients of other ethnicities.
D-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria has been observed in patients with extremely variable clinical symptoms, creating doubt about the existence of a disease entity related to the biochemical finding. An international survey of patients with D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria was initiated to solve this issue. The clinical history, neuroimaging, and biochemical findings of 17 patients were studied. Ten of the patients had a severe early-infantile-onset encephalopathy characterized by epilepsy, hypotonia, cerebral visual failure, and little development. Five of these patients had a cardiomyopathy. In neuroimaging, all patients had a mild ventriculomegaly, often enlarged frontal subarachnoid spaces and subdural effusions, and always signs of delayed cerebral maturation. In all patients who underwent neuroimaging before 6 months, subependymal cysts over the head or corpus of the caudate nucleus were noted. Seven patients had a much milder and variable clinical picture, most often characterized by mental retardation, hypotonia, and macrocephaly, but sometimes no related clinical problems. Neuroimaging findings in 3 patients variably showed delayed cerebral maturation, ventriculomegaly, or subependymal cysts. Biochemical findings included elevations of D-2-hydroxyglutaric acid in urine, plasma, and cerebrospinal fluid in both groups. Cerebrospinal fluid gamma-aminobutyric acid was elevated in almost all patients investigated. Urinary citric acid cycle intermediates were variably elevated. The conclusion of the study is that D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a distinct neurometabolic disorder with at least two phenotypes.
OBJECTIVE ::: To explore pathogenic mutation in a family affected with 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Exons of 3 candidate genes, including L2HGDH, D2HGDH and SLC25A1, were amplified with polymerase chain reaction and subjected to direct sequencing. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: DNA sequencing has found that the proband and his affected younger brother have both carried a heterozygous mutation c.845G>A (p.R282Q) in the exon 7 of the L2HGDH gene. The same mutation was not detected in the his sister who was healthy. Pedigree analysis has confirmed that the above mutation was inherited from the mother. No mutation was detected in exons and flanking sequences of the D2HGDH and SLC25A1 genes. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Mutation of the L2HGDH gene probably underlies the 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria in this family.
We describe late diagnosis of an adult with L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (MIM 236792) on the basis of characteristic metabolite data and mutation analysis in the L2HGDH gene. The patient lacked MRI abnormalities which have been purported to be constant or typical findings in this disease. We further report the genetic status of his parents and his one living sibling. Our observations underline the clinical heterogeneity of the syndrome of L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. This report emphasizes the diagnostic benefit of the assessment of urinary organic acids not only in children, but also in adult patients with unexplained neurological symptoms. The patient was determined to be compound heterozygous for two novel missense mutations in exon 4 of the gene (c.418G>C, c.446T>G), resulting in amino acid exchanges from alanine to proline (p.Ala140Pro) and leucine to arginine (p.Leu149Arg), respectively. The mother of our patient was heterozygous for Ala140Pro, and the father heterozygous for Leu149Arg only. Mutation analysis of a healthy 49-year-old third son of the non-consanguineous parents revealed a normal exon 4.
Nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) are the most limiting factors for plant growth. Some microorganisms improve the uptake and availability of N and P, minimizing chemical fertilizer dependence. It has been published that the RD64 strain, a Sinorhizobium meliloti 1021 strain engineered to overproduce indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), showed improved nitrogen fixation ability compared to the wild-type 1021 strain. Here, we present data showing that RD64 is also highly effective in mobilizing P from insoluble sources, such as phosphate rock (PR). Under P-limiting conditions, the higher level of P-mobilizing activity of RD64 than of the 1021 wild-type strain is connected with the upregulation of genes coding for the high-affinity P transport system, the induction of acid phosphatase activity, and the increased secretion into the growth medium of malic, succinic, and fumaric acids. Medicago truncatula plants nodulated by RD64 (Mt-RD64), when grown under P-deficient conditions, released larger amounts of another P-solubilizing organic acid, 2-hydroxyglutaric acid, than plants nodulated by the wild-type strain (Mt-1021). It has already been shown that Mt-RD64 plants exhibited higher levels of dry-weight production than Mt-1021 plants. Here, we also report that P-starved Mt-RD64 plants show significant increases in both shoot and root fresh weights when compared to P-starved Mt-1021 plants. We discuss how, in a Rhizobium-legume model system, a balanced interplay of different factors linked to bacterial IAA overproduction rather than IAA production per se stimulates plant growth under stressful environmental conditions and, in particular, under P starvation.
Background Tissue accumulation of high amounts of D-2-hydroxyglutaric acid (DGA) is the biochemical hallmark of the inherited neurometabolic disorder D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (DHGA). Patients affected by this disease usually present hypotonia, muscular weakness, hypothrophy and cardiomyopathy, besides severe neurological findings. However, the underlying mechanisms of muscle injury in this disorder are virtually unknown. ::: ::: ::: ::: Materials and methods In the present study we have evaluated the in vitro role of DGA, at concentrations ranging from 0·25 to 5·0 mm, on total, cytosolic and mitochondrial creatine kinase activities from skeletal and cardiac muscle of 30-day-old Wistar rats. We also tested the effects of various antioxidants on the effects elicited by DGA. ::: ::: ::: ::: Results We first verified that total creatine kinase (CK) activity from homogenates was significantly inhibited by DGA (22–24% inhibition) in skeletal and cardiac muscle, and that this activity was approximately threefold higher in skeletal muscle than in cardiac muscle. We also observed that CK activities from mitochondrial (Mi-CK) and cytosolic (Cy-CK) preparations from skeletal muscle and cardiac muscle were also inhibited (12–35% inhibition) by DGA at concentrations as low as 0·25 mm, with the effect being more pronounced in cardiac muscle preparations. Finally, we verified that the DGA-inhibitory effect was fully prevented by preincubation of the homogenates with reduced glutathione and cysteine, suggesting that this effect is possibly mediated by modification of essential thiol groups of the enzyme. Furthermore, α-tocopherol, melatonin and the inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase L-NAME were unable to prevent this effect, indicating that the most common reactive oxygen and nitrogen species were not involved in the inhibition of CK provoked by DGA. ::: ::: ::: ::: Conclusion Considering the importance of creatine kinase activity for cellular energy homeostasis, our results suggest that inhibition of this enzyme by increased levels of DGA might be an important mechanism involved in the myopathy and cardiomyopathy of patients affected by DHGA.
We studied 21 patients, from 18 families, with L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L-2-HGA), a rare neurometabolic disorder with a homogeneous presentation: progressive neurodegeneration with extrapyramidal and cerebellar signs, seizures, and subcortical leukoencephalopathy. Increased levels of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid in body fluids proved the diagnosis of L-2-HGA in all 21 patients. We analyzed the L-2-HGA gene (L2HGDH), recently found to be mutated in consanguineous families with L-2-HGA, and identified seven novel mutations in 15 families. Three mutations appeared to be particularly prevalent in this Portuguese panel: a frameshift mutation (c.529delC) was detected in 12 out of 30 mutant alleles (40%), a nonsense mutation (c.208C>T; p.Arg70X) in 7/30 alleles (23%), and a missense mutation (c.293A>G; p.His98Arg) in four out of 30 mutant alleles (13%), suggesting that common origin may exist. Furthermore, two novel missense (c.169G>A; p.Gly57Arg, c.1301A>C; p.His434Pro) and two splice error (c.257-2A>G, c.907-2A>G) mutations were found. All the mutations presumably lead to loss-of-function with no relationship between clinical signs, progression of the disease, levels of L-2-HGA and site of the mutation. In the three remaining families, no pathogenic mutations in the L-2-HGA were found, which suggests either alterations in regulatory regions of the gene or of its intervening sequences, compound heterozygosity for large genomic deletion and, or further genetic heterogeneity.
l-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria (l-2-HGA) is a rare inborn error of metabolism. Mainly, patients with this disorder exhibit neurological symptoms and characteristic neuroradiological findings, such as subcortical white matter abnormalities, which are believed to be caused by the toxicity of the accumulation of l-2-hydroxyglutaric acid. A genotype-first approach of the whole exome sequence was used to identify compound heterozygous mutations, c.584A>G (p.Y195C) and c.772T>C (p.C258R), in L2HGDH, the gene responsible for this disorder, in an adult patient with intellectual disability and intractable epilepsy. A retrospective assay confirmed the increased concentrations of 2-hydroxyglutaric acid in the urine. These results suggested that neuroradiological findings of subcortical white matter abnormalities are characteristic of l-2-HGA and that clinical exome sequencing has sufficient power to compensate for insufficient clinical evaluations.
Abstract D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a neurometabolic disorder, characterized by the accumulation of D-2-hydroxyglutarate (D-2HG) in human mitochondria. Increased levels of D-2HG are detected in humans exhibiting point mutations in the genes encoding isocitrate dehydrogenase, citrate carrier, the electron transferring flavoprotein (ETF) and its downstream electron acceptor ETF-ubiquinone oxidoreductase or D-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase (hD2HGDH). However, while the pathogenicity of several amino acid replacements in the former four proteins has been studied extensively, not much is known about the effect of certain point mutations on the biochemical properties of hD2HGDH. Therefore, we recombinantly produced wild type hD2HGDH as well as two recently identified disease-related variants (hD2HGDH-I147S and -V444A) and performed their detailed biochemical characterization. We could show that hD2HGDH is a FAD dependent protein, which is able to catalyze the oxidation of D-2HG and D-lactate to α-ketoglutarate and pyruvate, respectively. The two variants were obtained as apo-proteins and were thus catalytically inactive. The addition of FAD failed to restore enzymatic activity of the variants, indicating that the cofactor binding site is compromised by the single amino acid replacements. Further analyses revealed that both variants form aggregates that are apparently unable to bind the FAD cofactor. Since, D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria may also result from a loss of function of either the ETF or its downstream electron acceptor ETF-ubiquinone oxidoreductase, ETF may serve as the cognate electron acceptor of reduced hD2HGDH. Here, we show that hD2HGDH directly reduces recombinant human ETF, thus establishing a metabolic link between the oxidation of D-2-hydroxyglutarate and the mitochondrial electron transport chain.
Background ::: L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L2HGA) is a rare neurometabolic disorder characterized by a slowly progressive clinical course, psychomotor and mental retardation, macrocephaly, dysarthria, seizures, and cerebellar and extrapyramidal findings. The diagnosis depends on the presentation of increased levels of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid in the urine, plasma, and cerebrospinal fluids. Patients with L2HGA have an increased risk for the development of cerebral neoplasms which, though rarely, can be the initial presentation of the disease. Moreover, patients with L2HGA have an increased risk for the development of cerebral neoplasms.
Enantio-MDGC-MS analysis with heptakis-(2,3-di-O-methyl-6-O-tert.-butyl-dimethylsilyl)-beta-cyclodextrin as the chiral main column is a powerful tool for the separation of chiral compounds. This paper reports on the simultaneous stereodifferentiation of 2-hydroxyisocaproic acid (HICA), 3-methyladipic acid (3-MA), 2-hydroxyglutaric acid (2-HG), 3-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-lactic acid (HPLA), 2-hydroxysebacic acid (2-HS) and 3-hydroxysebacic acid (3-HS) in a single chromatographic run. These chiral urinary metabolites are useful in the diagnosis of peroxisomal diseases such as Zellweger syndrome (ZS). In this investigation, urine samples from nine patients with ZS were analysed in order to reveal the enantiomeric ratio of these chiral metabolites. The stereodifferentiation of the analysed chiral compounds may provide important information on their biochemical origin.
The basic scheme for the biosynthesis of methanopterin (MPT) in Methanobacterium thermoautotrophicum strain DeltaH, and M. thermoautotrophicum strain Marburg, has been shown to be the same as that recently determined for Methanosarcina thermophila strain TM-1. This scheme has, as one of its unique steps, the condensation of 4-aminobenzoic acid with 5-phospho-alpha-d-ribosyl diphosphate (PRPP) to form 4-(beta-d-ribofuranosyl)aminobenzene 5'-phosphate (beta-RFA-P). Labeling experiments with each of these organisms have established that the sites in the overall sequence of reactions from beta-RFA-P to MPT, where the S-adenosylmethionine-dependent C-9 and C-7 methylations of the pterin-containing intermediates occur, are organism related. In this work, cell extracts of M. thermoautotrophicum strain DeltaH, and M. thermoautotrophicum strain Marburg were found to contain significant amounts of methanopterin lacking the phosphate and 2-hydroxyglutaric acid groups.
It has been proposed that accumulated D-2HG acts as an oncometabolite, with numerous potential protumorigenic effects. One of the rationales for the role of 2HG in tumorigenesis is derived from the observation of patients with rare inherited neurometabolic disorders, the D-2-and L-2-hydroxyglutaric acidurias (D-2-and L-2-HGA). These two distinct syndromes result from germline homozygous inactivating mutations in the genes that encode for D-2-and L-2-HGDH [40, 41] . Mutations in D-2-and L-2-HGDH result in the accumulation of D-2HG or L-2HG enantiomeric acids in patients' physiological fluids, and some L-2HGA affected individuals have an increased incidence of brain tumors [42] [43] [44]. Interestingly, D-2HGA has also been found to be associated with germline IDH2 R140 mutations in a cohort of patients, who do not have alterations in the D-2HGDH [45]. Thus D-2-HGA has been distinguished in two different subtypes, type one that has been associated with mutations in D-2HGDH and type two that has been associated with mutations in IDH2. However, patients with type one and type two D-2-HGA have no higher risk of developing brain tumors [46]. Although this contrasts with the findings observed in IDH-mutated tumors, where an accumulation of D-2HG [28, 29] , but not L-2HG is thought to promote tumorigenesis, it could be hypothesized that this discrepancy may be due to the ability of mutant IDH to produce D-2HG at a significantly higher level to that seen in D-2-HGA, and that the levels produced in the latter disorder are simply insufficient to promote tumorigenesis. Indeed, D-2HG levels are higher in fluids and lymphoblastic cells from patients with D-2-HGA associated with IDH2 mutations than from those with mutations in D-2HGDH, with the mean serum levels approximately five-times higher in type two than in type one D-2-HGA patients (e.g., 14,663-112,122 ng/ml range values, 54,210 ng/ml mean value vs 3851-18,218 ng/ml range values, 10,072 ng/ml mean value, respectively) [46,47]. Since the clinical outcome of patients affected by type two D-2-HGA is more severe compared with that of patients affected by type one D-2HGA, it is plausible to establish a correlation between D-2HG concentration and the severity of the disorder. However, D-2HG levels present in the serum of patients affected by type two D-2HGA are also higher than those measured in IDH1 and IDH2 mutant AML patients, where pretreatment D-2HG levels were measured to be as high as 30,000 ng/ml (median 3004 ng/ml) [48] and 66,207 ng/ml (median 1863 ng/ml) [49] compared with 61 ng/ml (median) [48] and 87 ng/ml (median) [49] in IDH wild-type patients, suggesting there may be no direct correlation between the level of D-2HG concentration and the risk of tumor development in D-2-HGA [48]. The association between brain tumors and L-2-HGA, but not D-2-HGA may also be explained by the fact that L-2HG inhibits certain enzymes, whose activity have been implicated in tumorigenesis, more potently than D-2HG [50,51]. An alternative theory could be that because patients with D-2-HGA have a more severe clinical course compared with L-2-HGA patients (they often die in infancy or early adulthood [46]), they simply do not live long enough for brain tumors to develop. Perhaps more compelling evidence to support the role of D-2HG in promoting tumorigenesis is illustrated by the findings observed in IDH-mutated tumors showing that patients with IDH2 R140-mutant AML produce lower levels of D-2HG and have a better prognosis than patients IDH2 R172 mutant AML [25] , suggesting a correlation between the amount of D-2HG produced by mutant IDH, and the characteristics of the resulting tumor.
Two distinct disorders with elevated urinary excretion of 2-hydroxyglutaric acid are known: L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria and D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. This paper presents clinical and biochemical studies in three patients and unsuccessful prenatal diagnosis in one case with combined D-2- and L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. We suggest that these patients, who displayed a phenotype of neonatal onset metabolic encephalopathy, present a third variant of 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. Prenatal diagnosis is not reliable in this disorder.
Elevated levels of d-2-hydroxyglutarate (d-2-HG) occur in gliomas and myeloid leukemias associated with mutations of IDH1 and IDH2. l-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria, an inherited metabolic disorder, predisposes to brain tumors. Therefore, we asked whether sporadic cancers, without IDH1 or IDH2 hot-spot mutations, show elevated 2-hydroxyglutarate levels. We retrieved 15 pairs of frozen papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) and adjacent non-neoplastic thyroid, and 14 pairs of hyperplastic nodule (HN) and adjacent non-hyperplastic thyroid. In all lesions, exon 4 sequencing confirmed the absence of known mutations of IDH1 and IDH2. We measured 2-hydroxyglutarate by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Compared to normal thyroid, PTCs had significantly higher d-2-HG and l-2-hydroxyglutarate (l-2-HG) levels, and compared to HNs, PTCs had significantly higher d-2-HG levels. d-2-HG/l-2-HG levels were not significantly different between HNs and normal thyroid. Further studies should clarify if elevated 2-hydroxyglutarate in PTC may be useful as cancer biomarker and evaluate the role of 2-hydroxyglutarate in cancer biology.
L-2-Hydroxyglutaric (LGA) and D-2-hydroxyglutaric (DGA) acids are the characteristic metabolites accumulating in the neurometabolic disorders known as L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria and D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, respectively. Although these disorders are predominantly characterized by severe neurological symptoms, the neurotoxic mechanisms of brain damage are virtually unknown. In this study we have evaluated the role of LGA and DGA at concentrations ranging from 0.01 to 5.0 mM on various parameters of energy metabolism in cerebral cortex slices and homogenates of 30-day-old Wistar rats, namely glucose uptake, CO(2) production and the respiratory chain enzyme activities of complexes I to IV. DGA significantly decreased glucose utilization (2.5 and 5.0 mM) by brain homogenates and CO(2) production (5 mM) by brain homogenates and slices, whereas LGA had no effect on either measurement. Furthermore, DGA significantly inhibited cytochrome c oxidase activity (complex IV) (EC 1.9.3.1) in a dose-dependent manner (35-95%) at doses as low as 0.5 mM, without compromising the other respiratory chain enzyme activities. In contrast, LGA did not interfere with these activities. Our results suggest that the strong inhibition of cytochrome c oxidase activity by increased levels of DGA could be related to the neurodegeneration of patients affected by D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria.
D-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria (DHGA) is a neurometabolic disorder biochemically characterized by tissue accumulation and excretion of high amounts of D-2-hydroxyglutaric acid (DGA). Although the affected patients have predominantly severe neurological findings, the underlying mechanisms of brain injury are virtually unknown. In previous studies we have demonstrated that DGA, at concentrations as low as 0.25 mM, significantly decreased creatine kinase activity and other parameters of energy metabolism in cerebral cortex of young rats. In the present study, we investigated the effect of DGA (0.25-5 mM) on total creatine kinase (tCK) activity, as well as on CK activity in cytosolic (Cy-CK) and mitochondrial (Mi-CK) preparations from cerebellum of 30-day-old Wistar rats in order to test whether the inhibitory effect of DGA on CK was tissue specific. We verified that tCK (22% inhibition) and Mi-CK (40% inhibition) activities were moderately inhibited by DGA at concentrations of 2.5 mM and higher, in contrast to Cy-CK, which was not affected by the acid. Kinetic studies revealed that the inhibitory effect of DGA was noncompetitive in relation to phosphocreatine. We also observed that this inhibition was fully prevented by preincubation of the homogenates with reduced glutathione, suggesting that the inhibition of CK activity by DGA is possibly mediated by modification of essential thiol groups of the enzyme. Our present results therefore demonstrate a relatively weak inhibitory effect of DGA on cerebellum Mi-CK activity, as compared to that provoked in cerebral cortex, and may possibly be related to the neuropathology of DHGA, characterized by cerebral cortex abnormalities.
L-2-Hydroxyglutaric (LGA) and D-2-hydroxyglutaric (DGA) acids are the characteristic metabolites accumulating in the neurometabolic disorders known as L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria and D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, respectively. Although these disorders are predominantly characterized by severe neurological symptoms, the neurotoxic mechanisms of brain damage are virtually unknown. In this study we have evaluated the role of LGA and DGA at concentrations ranging from 0.01 to 5.0 mM on various parameters of energy metabolism in cerebral cortex slices and homogenates of 30-day-old Wistar rats, namely glucose uptake, CO 2 production and the respiratory chain enzyme activities of complexes I to IV. DGA significantly decreased glucose utilization (2.5 and 5.0 mM) by brain homogenates and CO 2 production (5 mM) by brain homogenates and slices, whereas LGA had no effect on either measurement. Furthermore, DGA significantly inhibited cytochrome c oxidase activity (complex IV) (EC 1.9.3.1) in a dose-dependent manner (35^95%) at doses as low as 0.5 mM, without compromising the other respiratory chain enzyme activities. In contrast, LGA did not interfere with these activities. Our results suggest that the strong inhibition of cytochrome c oxidase activity by increased levels of DGA could be related to the neurodegeneration of patients affected by D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. ß 2002 Published by Elsevier Science B.V.
L-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria (LHGA) and D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (DHGA) are rare neurometabolic disorders biochemically characterized by tissue accumulation and high urinary excretion of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid (LGA) and D-2-hydroxyglutaric acid (DGA), respectively [1^6] .
Despite the intensive clinical investigation and the large number of loading and fast tests, the underlying biochemical defect of these disorders and the origin of DGA and LGA have remained an enigma. Initially L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid dehydrogenase and D-2-hydroxyglutaric acid dehydrogenase de¢ciencies were considered as potential causes of these diseases. However, the activities of the enzymes were normal or even increased in the liver of a¡ected patients, suggesting that their accumulation may result from a secondary pathway, rather than from the primary substrate of the missing enzyme activity [3, 4, 13] . Likewise, the e¡ects of these acids on cell metabolism are virtually unknown and await investigation.
Hydroxyglutaric aciduria is detected by gas chromatographic-mass spectrometric analysis, and the D and L forms are quantified by chemical ionization with deuterated internal standards. Patients have recently been described who accumulate the D form, and they appear to be quite different from those with the more common L form. Experience is reported with three patients and an animal model with D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. The phenotype appears to include mental retardation, macrocephaly, hypotonia, seizures, and involuntary movements, although neurologic and systemic manifestations of the disorder varied considerably between individual patients, even within the same family. (J Child Neurol 1995;10:137-142).
We report the fourth case of combined d-and L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria presenting with neonatal encephalopathy and subependymal cysts.
D-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria (D-2-HGA) is a neurometabolic inherited disorder first described in 1980. In the following years, it became clear that the clinical phenotype of the disease varies widely from severe neonatal to asymptomatic. However, the sparse biochemical knowledge made D-2-HGA a poorly understood disease. Much progress has been made in the last five years in various studies, revealing two human enzymes that play a role in the metabolism of D-2-hydroxyglutarate (D-2-HG): hydroxyacid-oxoacid transhydrogenase (HOT) and D-2-HG dehydrogenase. HOT is expected to be responsible for the formation of D-2-HG, while D-2-HG dehydrogenase converts D-2-HG into 2-ketoglutarate. We demonstrated pathogenic mutations in the D2HGD gene in patients with D-2-HGA, helping to unravel the primary defect causing D-2-HGA. However, in approximately 50% of the patients with D-2-HGA examined, no pathogenic mutations have yet been found.
L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a metabolic repair deficiency characterized by elevated levels of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid in urine, blood and cerebrospinal fluid. Neurological signs associated with the disease in humans and dogs include seizures, ataxia and dementia. Here we describe an 8 month old Yorkshire terrier that presented with episodes of hyperactivity and aggressive behavior. Between episodes, the dog’s behavior and neurologic examinations were normal. A T2 weighted MRI of the brain showed diffuse grey matter hyperintensity and a urine metabolite screen showed elevated 2-hydroxyglutaric acid. We sequenced all 10 exons and intron-exon borders of L2HGDH from the affected dog and identified a homozygous A to G transition in the initiator methionine codon. The first inframe methionine is at p.M183 which is past the mitochondrial targeting domain of the protein. Initiation of translation at p.M183 would encode an N-terminal truncated protein unlikely to be functional. We have identified a mutation in the initiation codon of L2HGDH that is likely to result in a non-functional gene. The Yorkshire terrier could serve as an animal model to understand the pathogenesis of L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria and to evaluate potential therapies.
l-2-Hydroxyglutaric acidaemia represents a newly defined inborn error of metabolism, with increased levels ofl-2-hydroxyglutaric acid in urine, plasma and cerebrospinal fluid. The concentration in cerebrospinal fluid is higher than in plasma. The other consistent biochemical finding is an increase of lysine in blood and cerebrospinal fluid, but lysine loading does not increasel-2-hydroxyglutaric acid concentration in plasma. This autosomal recessively inherited disease is expressed as progressive ataxia, mental deficiency with subcortical leukoencephalopathy and cerebellar atrophy on magnetic resonance imaging. Since these features were described in 8 patients by Barth and co-workers in 1992, 4 more patients with similar findings have been diagnosed and added to the present series.l-2-Hydroxyglutaric acid is found in only trace amounts on routine gas chromatographic screening in normal persons, and its origin, its fate and even its relevance to normal metabolism are unknown. Therefore its catabolism was studied in normal liver. Incubation of rat liver withl-2-hydroxyglutaric acid did not produce H2O2, which excluded (peroxisomal)l-2-hydroxyacid oxidase as the main route of catabolism. However,l-2-hydroxyglutaric acid is rapidly dehydrogenated if NAD+ is added as a co-factor to the standard reaction medium. This could also be demonstrated in human liver. The preliminary evidence for this enzyme activity in rats and humans,l-2-hydroxyglutaric acid dehydrogenase, is given. Further investigations are required to clarify the possible relevance to the metabolic defect inl-2-hydroxyglutaric acidaemia.
Chirality is not a rare phenomenon in metabolomes. Nevertheless, common metabolomics approaches still detect enantiomers as a single signal. However, they are individual metabolites due to different stereospecific enzymes catalyzing their metabolism. The here presented methods consider the configuration of chiral metabolites in the interpretation of metabolomics data to investigate the following biomedical hypotheses. D-Amino acids (D-AAs), albeit much lower abundant than their antipodes, are potential diagnostic markers for diseases affecting the liver, the gut and the gut flora. The other assumption of this thesis was that the comprehensive resolution of stereoisomers from metabolomes, providing more detailed metabolic fingerprints than conventional approaches, would facilitate the differentiation of groups. ::: In order to investigate the former hypothesis two different GC-MS techniques were used for the implementation, optimization and validation of quantitative AAE analysis, primarily in urine and serum. The GC-qMS method using MeOH/Methylchloroformate (MCF) derivatization and a gamma-CD derivative for enantiomer separation was chosen, among several tested derivative/chiral selector combinations, in my diploma thesis as the most effective GC-qMS method for quantitative amino acid enantiomer (AAE) analysis with respect to the number of baseline separated proteinogenic AAE pairs and peak intensities. Sample preparation was optimized to allow the accurate quantification of exclusively free AAEs. In addition injection parameter and IS contents were optimized to decrease LLOQs and the method was validated by comparison to a non-chiral GC-qMS method for AA quantification. Finally, the method was subjected to biomedical applications that underlined the potential of D-AAs as diagnostic markers due to changed D-AA levels found in mouse serum and mouse liver tissues as a consequence of pathological changes of the liver. The method separated ten pairs of AAEs, but it failed to separate Phe enantiomers, D-Ile/L-Leu, L-Thr/L-Asp, and L-Ser/D-Met. For L-Thr, L-Asp and D-Met a specific m/z enabled their accurate quantification in SIM mode but the quantification of the other coeluting enantiomers was impeded. Moreover, not each D-AA that was baseline separated from its antipode could be quantified in all samples of interest due to insufficient LLOQs. Thus, the potential of comprehensive GC×GC-TOFMS was tested for quantitative AAE analysis in urine and serum. The same derivative/chiral selector combination was used and a ZB-AAA column provided best AAE resolution as the second dimension selector from two different selectors tested. Upon optimization of the temperature program, baseline separation was accomplished for all detected AAEs except for Phe enantiomers. The method was validated by comparison to the chiral GC-qMS method and pros and cons of both approaches were discussed. The application of chiral GC×GC-TOFMS revealed increased D-AA serum levels in patients with liver cirrhosis when compared to respective serum levels of healthy individuals. Finally, performing a chiral fingerprinting approach, it was demonstrated that comprehensive enantiomer resolution assisted with the differentiation of different NAFLD stages in the analysis of urine samples from respective mouse models. There was observed a clear group separation of the three investigated groups after PCA of differentiating features and D-Val, D-2-Hydroxyglutaric acid and D-allo-Ile levels significantly differentiated NASH from hepatic steatosis. There were identified further enantiomers of hydroxydiacids and AA derivatives that significantly differentiated the diseased groups from controls and besides D-Val six other separated AAEs differentiated the experimental groups. This chiral GC-qMS based fingerprinting approach introduced a new field of investigation that I named ‘chiralomics’ as it expanded metabolomics to the chiral dimension.
Background: L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a metabolic repair deficiency characterized by elevated levels of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid in urine, blood and cerebrospinal fluid. Neurological signs associated with the disease in humans and dogs include seizures, ataxia and dementia. Case presentation: Here we describe an 8 month old Yorkshire terrier that presented with episodes of hyperactivity and aggressive behavior. Between episodes, the dog's behavior and neurologic examinations were normal. A T2 weighted MRI of the brain showed diffuse grey matter hyperintensity and a urine metabolite screen showed elevated 2-hydroxyglutaric acid. We sequenced all 10 exons and intron-exon borders of L2HGDH from the affected dog and identified a homozygous A to G transition in the initiator methionine codon. The first inframe methionine is at p.M183 which is past the mitochondrial targeting domain of the protein. Initiation of translation at p.M183 would encode an N-terminal truncated protein unlikely to be functional.
L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a rare autosomal recessive encephalopathy caused by mutations in the L-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase gene. We describe some novel clinical and molecular characteristics found in a boy with L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. We report an 8-year-old Chinese boy, who had characteristic developmental delay, ataxia and acrocephaly as the main symptoms. He also complained of paroxysmal headache and palpitation. Brain image revealed a symmetrical, extensive subcortical white matter lesion. Urine test for organic acids showed a significantly increased level of 2-hydroxyglutaric acid (106.74 mmol/mol cre, normal range 0.6 ~ 5.9 mmol/mol cre), leading to the diagnosis of L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. Genetic testing uncovered two heterozygous missense mutations in L-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase gene: c.169G > A in exon 2 and c.542G > T in exon 5, not hitherto been described. Novel gene mutation and associated clinical symptoms can contribute for the understanding and identification of this rare disease. Possible genotype-phenotype correlation waits for further study.
Background: L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a rare autosomal recessive encephalopathy caused by mutations in the L-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase gene. We describe some novel clinical and molecular characteristics found in a boy with L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. Case presentation: We report an 8-year-old Chinese boy, who had characteristic developmental delay, ataxia and acrocephaly as the main symptoms. He also complained of paroxysmal headache and palpitation. Brain image revealed a symmetrical, extensive subcortical white matter lesion. Urine test for organic acids showed a significantly increased level of 2-hydroxyglutaric acid (106.74 mmol/mol cre, normal range 0.6~5.9 mmol/mol cre), leading to the diagnosis of L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. Genetic testing uncovered two heterozygous missense mutations in L-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase gene: c.169G > A in exon 2 and c.542G > T in exon 5, not hitherto been described. Conclusion: Novel gene mutation and associated clinical symptoms can contribute for the understanding and identification of this rare disease. Possible genotype-phenotype correlation waits for further study.
Metabolomic analysis of aging was performed in plasma samples of young (8 weeks) and old (72 weeks) mice as ethoxycarbonyl/methoxime/tert-butyldimethylsilyl derivatives by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). As new approaches, study of altered metabolism from aging was attempted by simultaneous profiling analysis of amino acids (AAs), organic acids (OAs) and fatty acids (FAs) by GC-MS in a single run combined with pattern analysis. As a result, 27 amino acids (AAs), 17 organic acids (OAs) and 24 fatty acids (FAs) were positively screened with large variations in plasma samples. Among altered metabolites, levels of six AAs (proline, methionine, 4-hydroxyproline, pipecolic acid, glutamic acid, α-aminoadipic acid) as neurotransmetters and nutrients, five OAs (2-hydroxybutyric acid, 2-hydroxyglutaric acid, cis-aconitic acid citric acid, isocitric acid) including intermediate metabolites in the TCA cycle, and three n-3 polyunsaturated FAs (PUFAs) of α-octadecatrienoic acid, eicosapentaenoic acid and docosahexaenoic acid as potential biomarkers were significantly different between young and old groups. Their levels were normalized to the corresponding mean values of the young group and then plotted into star symbol patterns, which were clearly distinct compared with numerical data and readily distinguishable for young and old groups. Thus, the present metabolomic screening and the star pattern recognition method might be useful for understanding the complexity of biochemical events in aging.
Abstract Enantioselective, potentiometric membrane electrodes (EPMEs) based on carbon paste are constructed. The carbon paste is modified with antibiotics: vancomycin, teicoplanin, and teicoplanin modified with acetonitrile. The proposed electrodes can be used reliably for enantiopurity tests of d -2-hydroxyglutaric acid using direct potentiometric method of analysis. The linear concentration ranges recorded for EPMEs are 10 −7 to 10 −3 , 10 −7 to 10 −2 and 10 −6 to 10 −2 mol/L with detection limits of 1.00 × 10 −8 , 1.00 × 10 −8 , 1.00 × 10 −7 mol/L for the vancomycin, teicoplanin and teicoplanin modified with acetonitrile based EPME, respectively. The selectivity was determined over l -2-hydroxyglutaric acid, creatine, creatinine and some inorganic cations. The proposed EPMEs were applied for the assay of d -2-hydroxyglutaric acid in urine samples. The duration of one analysis is 10 min, including the calibration of the instrument and the determination of the amount of d -2-hydroxyglutaric acid in the urine sample.
A stable-isotope dilution assay has been developed for quantitation of D- and L-2-hydroxyglutaric acids in physiologic fluids. D- and L-2-hydroxyglutaric acids are separated as the O-acetyl-di-(D)-2-butyl esters. The method uses D,L-[3,3,4,4-2H4]-2-hydroxyglutaric acid as internal standard with ammonia chemical ionization, selected ion monitoring gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. For 13 patients with L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, the concentrations of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid were urine, 1283 +/- 676 mmol/mol creatinine (range, 332-2742; n = 12 patients); plasma, 47 +/- 13 mumol/L (range, 27-62; n = 8); cerebrospinal fluid, 62 +/- 30 mumol/L (range, 34-100; n = 6). In a child with D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, the levels of D-2-hydroxyglutaric acid were urine, 1565 +/- 847 mmol/mol creatinine (range, 729-2668; n = 4); plasma, 61 +/- 14 mumol/L (range, 46-73; n = 3); cerebrospinal fluid, 15 and 25 mumol/L (n = 2). Control concentrations of D- and L-2-hydroxyglutaric acids were (D:L): urine (n = 18), 6.0 +/- 3.6 mmol/mol creatinine (range, 2.8-17): 6.0 +/- 5.4 (range, 1.3-19); plasma (n = 10), 0.7 +/- 0.2 mumol/L (range, 0.3-0.9): 0.6 +/- 0.2 (range, 0.5-1.0); cerebrospinal fluid (n = 10), 0.1 +/- 0.1 mumol/L (range, 0.07-0.3): 0.7 +/- 0.6 (range, 0.3-2.3). Investigation of control amniotic fluid (n = 10) revealed the following values (D:L): 1.2 +/- 0.4 mumol/L (range, 0.6-1.8): 4.0 +/- 0.7 (range, 3.1-5.2), suggesting the feasibility of prenatal diagnosis in families at risk.
L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L2HGA) is a neurometabolic disorder characterized by macrocephaly, seizures, progressive mental retardation, pyramidal signs, ataxia and tremor. Dystonia is an under-recognized feature of this entity in the literature. We report two siblings with L2HGA, one of whom presented with writer’s cramp followed by dystonia of the other hand. An elevated plasma lysine, highly elevated urine 2-hydroxyglutaric acid, and MRI with characteristic findings (leukoencephalopathy of bilateral subcortical white matter sparing central white matter) suggested the diagnosis, which was confirmed by genetic testing.
L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L2HGA) is a neurometabolic disorder characterized by macrocephaly, seizures, progressive mental retardation, pyramidal signs, ataxia and tremor. Dystonia is an under-recognized feature of this entity in the literature. We report two siblings with L2HGA, one of whom presented with writer's cramp followed by dystonia of the other hand. An elevated plasma lysine, highly elevated urine 2-hydroxyglutaric acid, and MRI with characteristic findings (leukoencephalopathy of bilateral subcortical white matter sparing central white matter) suggested the diagnosis, which was confirmed by genetic testing.
The purpose of this study was to identify the biochemical and genetic defect in l-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, a neurometabolic disorder characterized by the presence of elevated concentrations of l-2-hydroxyglutaric acid in urine, plasma, and cerebrospinal fluid. Evidence is provided for the existence in rat tissues of a FAD-dependent enzyme catalyzing specifically the oxidation of l-2-hydroxyglutarate to α-ketoglutarate. This enzyme is mainly expressed in liver and kidney but also at lower levels in heart, brain, and other tissues. Subcellular fractionation indicates that the liver enzyme is present in mitochondria, where it is bound to membranes. Based on this information, a database search led to the identification of a gene encoding a human hypothetical protein homologous to bacterial FAD-dependent malate dehydrogenases and targeted to mitochondria. The gene encoding this protein, present on chromosome 14q22.1, was found to be in a region homozygous in patients with l-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria from two consanguineous families. Three mutations that replaced a highly conserved residue (Lys-71-Glu and Glu-176-Asp) or removed exon 9 were identified in homozygous state in patients from three distinct families and were found to cosegregate with the disease. It is concluded that l-2-hydroxyglutarate is normally metabolized to α-ketoglutarate in mammalian tissues and that l-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria is caused by mutations in the gene that most likely encodes l-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase. The pathological findings observed in this metabolic disorder must therefore be due to a toxic effect of l-2-hydroxyglutarate on the central nervous system.
Abstract A series of 3-aryl-4-indolylmaleimide IDH1/R132H inhibitors with a novel structure was obtained by high-throughput screening and structure-based optimization. Most compounds such as 7a, 7d, 7h, 7i, 7k and 7o showed high inhibitory effects on IDH1/R132H and were highly selective against IDH1/WT, IDH2/WT, GDH, GK, and FBP. Evaluation of the biological activities and function at cellular level showed that compounds 7h, 7i and 7k could effectively suppress the production of 2-hydroxyglutaric acid in U87MG cells expressing IDH1/R132H. Additionally, 7h could reversed the differentiation block of the myeloid leukemic cell line, TF-1, caused by the overexpression of IDH1/R132H. We also explore the structure-activity relationship based on the experimental data, with an attempt to pave the way for future studies.
The purpose of this study was to identify the biochemical and genetic defect in L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, a neurometabolic disorder characterized by the presence of elevated concentrations of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid in urine, plasma, and cerebrospinal fluid. Evidence is provided for the existence in rat tissues of a FAD-dependent enzyme catalyzing specifically the oxidation of L-2-hydroxyglutarate to ␣-ketoglutarate. This enzyme is mainly expressed in liver and kidney but also at lower levels in heart, brain, and other tissues. Subcellular fractionation indicates that the liver enzyme is present in mitochondria, where it is bound to membranes. Based on this information, a database search led to the identification of a gene encoding a human hypothetical protein homologous to bacterial FAD-dependent malate dehydrogenases and targeted to mitochondria. The gene encoding this protein, present on chromosome 14q22.1, was found to be in a region homozygous in patients with L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria from two consanguineous families. Three mutations that replaced a highly conserved residue (Lys-71-Glu and Glu-176-Asp) or removed exon 9 were identified in homozygous state in patients from three distinct families and were found to cosegregate with the disease. It is concluded that L-2-hydroxyglutarate is normally metabolized to ␣-ketoglutarate in mammalian tissues and that L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria is caused by mutations in the gene that most likely encodes L-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase. The pathological findings observed in this metabolic disorder must therefore be due to a toxic effect of L-2-hydroxyglutarate on the central nervous system. inborn error of metabolism ͉ leukoencephalopathy ͉ ataxia A s a neurometabolic disorder, L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria is characterized by the presence of elevated concentrations of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid in plasma, cerebrospinal fluid, and urine (1-3). Clinically, the affection is characterized by progressive ataxia, mental deficiency with subcortical leukoencephalopathy, and cerebellar atrophy. As of 1996, Ͼ40 patients were known worldwide (3). The disease appears to be recessively transmitted, but the enzymatic defect leading to this condition is presently unknown, largely because of poor knowledge on the origin and fate of L-2-hydroxyglutarate. A NAD-dependent dehydrogenase acting on this compound has been reported to be present in liver (4). However, this enzyme displays a very high K m for L-2-hydroxyglutarate (Ϸ10 mM), making it unsuitable to consume this substrate at physiologically relevant concentrations (probably of the order of 1 M). Furthermore, it is not deficient in patients with L-2-hydrox yglutaric aciduria (5). L-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase activity transferring its electrons to pyocyanin was partially characterized Ϸ70 years ago by Weil-Malherbe (6), who found it to be mostly active in heart, kidney, and brain. However, no oxidation of L-2-hydroxyglutarate by rat liver mitochondria was later found by Lindahl and coworkers (7). Furthermore, rat tissues apparently do not contain any L-2-hydroxyglutarate oxidase activity (4).
In an attempt to identify enzymes acting on D-and L-2-hydroxyglutarate, we recently studied the detritiation of DL-2-hydroxy[2-3 H]glutarate in rat liver extracts (8). Chromatography of such extracts allowed us to separate two main peaks of enzymes acting on DL-2-hydroxy[2-3 H]glutarate. The activity of the enzyme present in the flow-through fractions was competed by much lower concentrations of L-than of D-2-hydroxyglutarate and the converse was true with the enzyme eluted with high salt concentrations. This finding suggested that these enzymes acted on L-2-hydroxyglutarate and D-2-hydroxyglutarate, respectively. Accordingly, the second enzyme was purified and shown to be a D-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase, transferring its electrons to artificial acceptors, and its sequence was identified by mass spectrometry analysis of a trypsin digest and confirmed by overexpression of the recombinant protein (8). The purpose of the present work was to characterize the enzyme able to detritiate L-2-hydroxyglutarate with the goal of identifying the defect in L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria.
Patients. Family 1 is a Belgian family with consanguineous (first cousin) parents. The parents and four of the children had no neurological symptoms. The second and fourth children, both female, presented with mental retardation, seizures, and signs of ataxia, more severe in the second than in the fourth child. Brain MRI showed a (sub)cortical leukoencephalopathy and a diffuse atrophy in both cases. High levels of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid were found in urine (291 and 401 mg͞g creatinine) of both affected children but not in urine from the parents or the other siblings.
Abstract d -2-Hydroxyglutaric acid (DGA) is the biochemical hallmark of patients affected by the neurometabolic disorder known as d -2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (DHGA). Although this disease is predominantly characterized by severe neurological findings, the underlying mechanisms of brain injury are virtually unknown. In the present study, we investigated the effect of DGA on total, cytosolic, and mitochondrial creatine kinase (CK) activities from cerebral cortex of 30-day-old Wistar rats. Total CK activity (tCK) was measured in whole cell homogenates, whereas cytosolic and mitochondrial activities were measured in the cytosolic and mitochondrial preparations from cerebral cortex. We verified that CK activities were significantly inhibited by DGA (11–34% inhibition) at concentrations as low as 0.25 mM, being the mitochondrial fraction the most affected activity. Kinetic studies revealed that the inhibitory effect of DGA was non-competitive in relation to phosphocreatine. We also observed that this inhibition was fully prevented by pre-incubation of the homogenates with reduced glutathione, suggesting that the inhibitory effect of DGA on tCK activity is possibly mediated by oxidation of essential thiol groups of the enzyme. Considering the importance of CK activity for brain metabolism homeostasis, our results suggest that inhibition of this enzyme by increased levels of DGA may be related to the neurodegeneration of patients affected by DHGA.
Aim: L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L2HGA) is a rare autosomal recessive encephalopathy caused by mutations in the L-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase gene. Materials and Methods: Here we discuss the clinical and molecular characteristics in patients with L2HGA. Results: There were eight patients with L2HGA. Their median age was 16 (9.5-37) years. Five of them were female and three of them were male. The main symptoms of the patients were psychomotor retardation (8/8), cerebellar ataxia (5/8), extrapyramidal symptoms (7/8) and seizures (4/8). All patients had behavioral problems. Elevated urinary L-2-hydroxy (L-2-OH) glutaric acid was detected and the median level of urine L-2-OH glutaric acid at diagnosis was 146 (60-1460 nmol/mol creat). Characteristic magnetic resonance imaging findings including subcortical cerebral white matter abnormalities with T2 hyperintensities of the dentate nucleus, globus pallidus and putamen were detected. Two patients had homozygous R335X, two patients had homozygous R282Q, two patients had homozygous R302L and one patient had compound heterozygous P302L/A64T mutation in L-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase (L2HGDH) gene. Conclusion: Because of the slow progression of the disease, the diagnosis of the patients is usually belated. L2HGA must be considered in the differential diagnosis based on clinical findings and specific findings in cranial magnetic resonance imaging. In our study, one of our patients has a novel mutation.
L-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L2HGA) is a very rare inherited metabolic disease with autosomal recessive inheritance [Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man (OMIM) #236792]. Since its first description in 1980 by Duran et al., (1) many additional cases of various ethnical backgrounds have been reported. Affected patients have slowly progressive deterioration with cerebellar ataxia, mild or moderate mental retardation, and extrapyramidal and pyramidal symptoms, and seizures and variable macrocephaly (2) . L2HGA is characterized by elevated levels of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid (L2HG) in urine, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), and, to a lesser extent, plasma. Increased levels of L2HG are pathognomic for L2HGA (1, 3) . Neuroimaging findings generally show subcortical leukoencephalopathy, cerebellar atrophy and changes in dentate nuclei and putamen (4) . L-2-hydroxyglutarate ( Figure 1 ) in nature suggests that it is endogenously produced in humans. This result is due to the findings that the excretion of L-2-hydroxyglutarate in patients with L2HGA is little affected by the diet and that L-2-hydroxyglutarate accumulates in cultured cells deficient in L-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase (L2HGDH) (5) . L2HGDH belongs to a large family of flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD)-linked dehydrogenases and oxidases. L-2-hydroxyglutarate is formed from alpha-ketoglutarate (metabolite in the tricarboxylic acid cycle) by the side activity of the mitochondrial L-malate dehydrogenase. L-2-hydroxyglutarate accumulation is toxic to the human brain, causing a leukoencephalopathy and increasing the sensibility to develop tumours (6) . Episodes of acute metabolic decompensation do not occur, and brain damage is not related to acidosis in L2HGA patients. It's a difference from other forms of organic acidurias (7) . The disease-causing gene, L2HGDH gene (L2HGDH), and its first pathogenic mutations were identified in 2004 (8, 9) . Treatment of L2HGA is under investigation; case reports have described positive effects of FAD sodium in combination with levocarnitine chloride in one patient (10) and riboflavin, a precursor of FAD, in another patient (11) . The present study describes the clinical presentation and mutation analysis and follow up findings of our patients with L2HGA at Ege University Pediatric Metabolism and Nutrition Unit.
Urinary organic acid analysis is a vital diagnostic tool in the investigation of patients with suspected inborn errors of metabolism. Recent descriptions of diseases producing abnormal chiral metabolites have provided the need for individual enantiomer analysis. In this paper the isolation and simultaneous stereodifferentiation of lactic, glyceric and 2-hydroxyglutaric acids using capillary gas chromatography on heptakis (2,3-di-O-methyl-6-O-tert.butyldimethylsilyl)-beta-cyclodextrin as the chiral stationary phase is described. The diagnostic potential of this method is demonstrated by the analysis of urine samples from two patients with D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria and a dog with D-glyceric aciduria. Due to the lack of specific clinical symptoms in these diseases, enantiomeric analysis is vital for diagnosis enabling prompt therapeutic intervention.
D-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria (D-2-HG) is a rare metabolic disorder. First reported in 1980, it does not have any well-recognized presentation or specific treatment regimen. Neuroimaging findings are heterogeneous. Subdural haemorrhage has not been a feature of any of the reported cases. This report presents a boy with bilateral subdural haematoma in whom non-accidental injury was initially suspected and subsequent metabolic investigation led to a diagnosis of D-2-HG. ::: ::: ::: ::: Conclusion: In the management of childhood subdural haemorrhages, it is very important that potentially treatable metabolic disorders are detected and that parents are not wrongly accused of injuring their children.
Metabolite profiling by applying principal component analysis (PCA) to a GC–MS data set was performed to assess changes in a select number of pre-defined metabolites during the fermentation of Cheonggukjang. A total of 20 amino acids, 12 organic acids, and nine fatty acids were found as targeted metabolites in Cheonggukjang. As fermentation proceeded, the levels of most amino acids decreased during the early stage of fermentation, but increased in the later part of fermentation. On the other hand, amounts of fatty acids increased throughout the fermentation process, while those of most organic acids, except for tartaric acid, decreased. A PCA score plot illustrated good separation of the Cheonggukjang samples according to fermentation period by combining principal component 1 (PC 1) (36.8%) with PC 2 (30.3%). Tryptophan, citric acid, β-alanine, itaconic acid, 2-hydroxyglutaric acid, γ-aminobutyric acid, leucine, malic acid, and tartaric acid were the major components that differentiated the various samples.
Abstract Background Glutaric aciduria type 1, a deficiency of glutaryl-CoA dehydrogenase, causes an accumulation of neurotoxic metabolites glutaric acid and 3-hydroxyglutaric acid (3-HGA). Testing of these analytes is routinely done by GC–MS but seldom account for interference from isomers or compounds with similar ion transitions. We developed a liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry method that accurately measures 3-HGA in urine and plasma specimens, while utilizing similar reagents and instrumentation used for the routine performance of amino acid and acylcarnitine analysis in determining the diagnosis of several metabolic disorders. Method Plasma and urine samples were added aliquots of the deuterated 3-HGA internal standard and acetonitrile. The protein-free supernatant was brought to dryness, and the residue derivatized using 3 M HCL in 1-butanol with heating. The dried derivative was then reconstituted in 50% methanol-water solution and aliquot transferred to an HPLC vial for analysis by LC-MS/MS. Separation was performed using a C8 HPLC column under flow gradient conditions of 0.2% formic acid in water and methanol, respectively. Ionization was by ESI and detection of selected precursor-product ion transitions by multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) in positive mode. Results The butyl-ester derivative of 3-HGA eluted at 7.82 min while 2-hydroxyglutaric acid (2-HGA) eluted at 8.21 min. This was equivalent to a separation factor of 1.05 and a resolution of 1.03, respectively. The 3-HGA calibration curve was linear over the range 6.20–319 ng mL−1 (r2 = 0.9996), and the reportable range determined by the linearity was found to be 1.54–384 ng mL−1. The calculated limits of detection and quantitation were 0.348 and 1.56 ng mL−1, respectively. Intra- and Inter-assay %CVs for quality control plasma and urine samples ranged from 2 to 18%, with recoveries of 66–115%. The method correlated to the gold standard GC–MS method for both serum (r2 ≥ 0.996) and urine analysis (r2 ≥ 0.949). The concentration of 3-HGA in normal, non-GA1 individuals was ≤25.2 ng mL−1 (in plasma) and ≤ 35.0 μmol mmol−1 of creatinine (in urine). Conclusions This LC-MS/MS method accurately quantified plasma and urine 3-HGA concentration after successful resolution from 2-HGA and other compounds with similar ion transitions. This method is suitable for confirmatory testing of 3-HGA, as a follow-up to an abnormal newborn screen test result, with concern for GA type 1.
L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a rare metabolic encephalopathy displaying a subcortical leukoencephalopathy on MRI. Diagnosis rests on detection of an abnormal accumulation of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid in body fluids. The authors report on four patients who developed a malignant brain tumor during the course of the disease. This association points to a possible role of L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria in predisposing to brain tumorigenesis.
INTRODUCTION ::: L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a rare inborn error of metabolism, autosomal recessive, identified in about 50 patients. The primary defect is still unknown. The clinical phenotype is variable. Affected individuals show slowly progressive neurodegenerative disorder with cerebellar ataxia and mental retardation. Pyramidal, and extrapyramidal signs, seizures and macrocephaly have been reported. All patients previously described show a pattern of subcortical leukoencephalopathy with nearly empty gyral cores and cerebellar atrophy in neuroimaging studies. The diagnosis is established by detection of increased levels of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid in urine, plasma and cerebrospinal fluid. ::: ::: ::: CASE REPORTS ::: We here describe two patients 7 and 9 years old, who presented psychomotor retardation, seizures, progressive cognitive deterioration, and pyramidal, extrapyramidal and cerebellar signs. Magnetic resonance scanning of the brain demonstrated a bilateral subcortical leukoencephalopathy pattern and areas of increased T2-weighted signal in the basal ganglia and cerebellar dentate nuclei. The analysis of organic acids in urine by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry showed elevated 2-hydroxyglutaric acid, 100% of it in the form of L enantiomer. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: The diagnostic consideration is based on clinical findings and typical neuroimaging pattern and is established by detection of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid in body fluids. Subcortical white matter loss is an important clue to diagnosis.
Neurological manifestations are very common and can be the leading and/or presenting feature in organic acid disorders, sometimes in the absence of metabolic derangement. Review of the time course and presentation of neurological disease in organic acid disorders reveals characteristic clinical findings of ataxia, myoclonus, extrapyramidal symptoms, metabolic stroke and megalencephaly. A group of organic acid disorders presents exclusively with neurological symptoms. These include glutaryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency (glutaric aciduria type I), succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency (4-hydroxybutyric aciduria), mevalonic aciduria,n-acetylaspartic aciduria (Canavan disease) andl-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. As a group these “cerebral” orgamic acid disorders appear to remain often undiagnosed and their true incidence is much less wellknown than that of the “classical” organic acid disorders. Unfortunately, stringent guidelines for a clinical preselection of neuropaediatric patients to be investigated for organic acid disorders cannot be provided. Today, screening for neurometabolic disorders should be as comprehensive as possible and include determinations of amino acids, purines and pyrimidines and markers of peroxisomal function in addition to organic acid analysis.
We report on an infant with cr-2-hydroxygltttaric aciduria, who presented with severe seizures and developmental delay, We reviewed the literature for 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria and found six other patients with the o-isomer and 24 patients with the L-isomer. Although the clinical spectrum of this inborn error of metabolism is variable, the clinical courseof the D-formseems to be more severe than this of the L-fOrm.
Proceedings: AACR 101st Annual Meeting 2010‐‐ Apr 17‐21, 2010; Washington, DC ::: ::: Mutations in the enzyme isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 (IDH1) are a common feature of most gliomas and secondary glioblastomas, as well as approx 10% acute myeloid leukemias. This event results in loss of the enzyme's ability to catalyze conversion of isocitrate to α -ketoglutarate. However, these mutations are all heterozygous and occur at a single amino acid residue of the IDH1 active site consistent with an enzymatic gain of function rather than a simple loss of function. To test this hypothesis we characterized mutant IDH1 (IDH1m) biochemically. We have shown that cancer-associated IDH1 mutations result in a new ability of the enzyme to catalyze the NADPH-dependent reduction of α-ketoglutarate to R(-)-2-hydroxyglutarate (2-HG). Patients with an inherited, neurometabolic disorders called 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria exhibit an accumulation of 2-HG in their CNS, and an increased risk of developing malignant brain tumors. Similarly, in human malignant gliomas harboring IDH1 mutations, we find elevated levels of 2-HG. Altogether our data demonstrate that the IDH1 mutations result in production of 2-HG, and suggest that the excess 2HG which accumulates in vivo contributes to the formation and malignant progression of gliomas. ::: ::: Citation Format: {Authors}. {Abstract title} [abstract]. In: Proceedings of the 101st Annual Meeting of the American Association for Cancer Research; 2010 Apr 17-21; Washington, DC. Philadelphia (PA): AACR; Cancer Res 2010;70(8 Suppl):Abstract nr 33.
There is little information on d-isomer-specific dehydrogenases in humans. Identification of d-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, an inherited metabolic disorder associated with severe neurological dysfunction, highlights the role of d-isomers in human metabolism. The possibility of a defect in d-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenation prompted us to employ E. coli d-2-hydroxyacid dehydrogenase cDNA to search the human expressed sequence tags database. Two human EST homologues were retrieved and sequenced. Analysis showed the two clones were identical with 1258 nucleotides encoding 248 amino acids of the putative human d-2-hydroxyacid dehydrogenase. It was highly homologous to bacterial d-2-hydroxyacid dehydrogenases (46%), d-phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase (38%), and formate dehydrogenase (36%) at the amino acid level. The gene is expressed ubiquitously in tissue, most abundantly in liver, and was mapped to chromosome 9q between markers WI-3028 and WI-93330. To our knowledge this is the first cloning and characterization of the cDNA for a human d-isomer specific NAD(+)-dependent 2-hydroxyacid dehydrogenase.
A group of organic acidurias, including Canavan disease (N-acetylaspartic aciduria), glutaric aciduria type I, l-2-hydroxylgutaric aciduria and d-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria types I and II, are characterised by a predominantly or even exclusively neurological presentation and have therefore been termed ‘cerebral’. Frequent neurological symptoms are motor and/or mental retardation or regression, extrapyramidal movement disorders and epilepsy. These symptoms are the result of acute and/or chronic pathological changes in various brain regions including grey matter (cortex, basal ganglia, cerebellum) and white matter (periventricular and subcortical). Unlike ‘classic’ organic acidurias (e.g. propionic and methylmalonic aciduria), acute metabolic decompensations with hyperammonemia, metabolic acidosis and elevated concentrations of lactate and ketone bodies are uncommon for cerebral organic acidurias. Biochemically, these diseases are characterised by accumulation of characteristic organic acids, mostly dicarboxylic acids, in body fluids. At high concentrations some of these may become neurotoxic. Since the blood–brain barrier has a low transport capacity for dicarboxylic acids, cerebral accumulation of dicarboxylic acids is facilitated. Impairment of brain energy metabolism is suggested to play a central role in the pathophysiology of this disease group. Metabolic treatment initiated in neonatally diagnosed patients with glutaric aciduria type I has significantly improved the neurological outcome, whereas current treatment strategies for the other cerebral organic acidurias are ineffective.
D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (D-2HGA) is a hereditary metabolic disorder characterized by the elevated levels of D-2-hydroxyglutaric acid (D-2HG) in urine, plasma and cerebrospinal fluid. About half of the patients have autosomal recessive mutations in D-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase (D2HGDH) gene. To analyze the origin of D-2HG in D2HGDH-depleted cells, we used small interfering RNA (siRNA) techniques. We found that knockdown of D2HGDH in MCF7 cells increased the levels of 2HG, mimicking D2HGDH mutant cells. Additional knockdown of isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 (IDH1) or isocitrate dehydrogenase 2 (IDH2) decreased the level of 2HG in D2HGDH knockdown MCF7 cells. Conversely, ectopic expression of IDH1 or IDH2 increased 2HG in MCF7 cells. These results suggest that IDH1 and IDH2 have roles in production of D-2HG in cells.
L2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L2-HGA) is a rare neurometabolic disease characterized by accumulation of L2-hydroxyglutarate (L2-HG), a potential oncometabolite resulting in significant lifetime risk for cerebral tumors. Herein, we present a case of intraventricular glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) in a 16-year-old child with L2-HGA who presented with rapid functional decline and persistent vomiting. The tumor was completely resected, and the patient remained well at 2-year follow-up. Clinicians should be aware of the usual insidious nature of the disease. Rapid deterioration is unusual and should raise the suspicion of tumor development. This case also illustrates the importance of surveillance neuroimaging in patients with L2-HGA. To the best of our knowledge, only 1 case of GBM has been reported and it was sited in the temporal lobe, unlike the unusual intraventricular location in our case.
BACKGROUND ::: L-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L-2-HGA) is an uncommon inborn error of metabolism, in which the patients are predisposed to develop brain tumors. Elevated levels of D-2-hydroxyglutarate have been demonstrated with malignant gliomas and myeloid leukemias associated with somatic mutations of the genes encoding NADP(+)-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenases (IDH1 and IDH2, respectively). Recently, we noted a Wilms tumor in a child with L-2-HGA. Given the accumulating evidence that both enantiomers of 2-hydroxyglutarate are associated with cellular transformation, we investigated if sporadic Wilms tumors are associated with IDH1 or IDH2 mutations or with elevated levels of 2-hydroxyglutarate. ::: ::: ::: PROCEDURE ::: We retrieved 21 frozen Wilms tumor tissues. In 20 cases, we sequenced exon 4 and flanking intronic regions of IDH1 and IDH2. In all 21 cases, we measured 2-hydroxyglutarate levels by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: We did not find mutations at the hot spots IDH1 codon 132 or IDH2 codon 172. Two cases (1 with favorable histology and 1 with unfavorable histology) showed heterozygous change c.211G>A (p.Val71Ile) in IDH1, a change previously reported as a mutation but listed as a single nucleotide polymorphism in the NCBI SNP database. We did not find increased levels of 2-hydroxygluatric acid in any sample. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: Our results suggest that IDH1 codon 132 or IDH2 codon 172 mutations or elevated 2-hydroxyglutarate levels do not play a role in the biology of sporadic Wilms tumors. The significance of heterozygous change c.211G>A (p.Val71Ile) in IDH1, seen in two tumors, is not clear.
The domestic dog is well documented as being an excellent model for studying the genetics of both simple and complex traits [1] [2] [3] . The purebred dog population comprises several hundred distinct breeds that usually originate from small numbers of founding individuals, with each breed representing an isolated and relatively homogenous closed breeding population. Within breeds there is strong selection for desired phenotypic and behavioural characteristics, and dogs that possess these desired characteristics are often bred with extensively. The resulting population structure of individual breeds can result in the propagation of many spontaneously occurring deleterious mutations within a breed and these can exist at high frequencies, with the possibility of multiple inherited disorders arising within a single breed. A large proportion of these disorders show a Mendelian autosomal recessive mode of inheritance. The Staffordshire Bull Terrier and Labrador Retriever are two of the many examples of breeds that are affected by at least two autosomal recessive disorders for which the causal mutations have been identified; hereditary cataract and the metabolic disorder L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria in the Staffordshire Bull Terrier [4] [5] and exercise induced collapse and centronuclear myopathy in the Labrador Retriever [6] [7] . The high levels of homogeneity and long linkage disequilibrium that are characteristic of the genomes of most purebred dog breeds means that canine disease traits can be mapped using much smaller numbers of cases and controls and far more modest numbers of genetic markers than would be required to map an equivalent disease in outbred human populations [8] [9] .
Several studies have shown that high levels of R-2-HG are able to mediate the changes seen in IDH1 mutants and as such, R-2-HG has been termed an "onco-metabolite" [49] . In an experiment using TF-1 leukemia cells, introduction of cell-permeable R-2-HG inhibited differentiation in response to erythropoietin (EPO) and induced growth factor resistance [27] . Both of these outcomes are important hallmarks in the formation of leukemia. This study demonstrated that continuously elevated levels of R-2-HG were needed to maintain tumor phenotype in IDH1 mutant cells as withdrawal of R-2-HG restored the normal differentiation response to EPO and growth factors. Further support for the role of 2-HG comes from the observation that patients with L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, an inborn error of metabolism characterized by elevated levels of S-2-HG, have a higher risk of developing gliomas [50] . Interestingly however, patients with D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, a similar metabolic disorder that is characterized by elevated R-2-HG, are not at increased risk for glioma or formation of other tumors [51] . The reason for this discrepancy is unclear and is an area requiring further investigation. Of the three IDH isozymes, only IDH1 exists in the cytosol while IDH2 and IDH3 function within the mitochondria. Under normal conditions, cytosolic isocitrate is converted into a-KG by the wild type IDH1 enzyme with concurrent reduction of NADP+. Subsequently, a-KG can re-enter Kreb's cycle within the mitochondria or remain in the cytosol as an essential substrate for PHD. Among its many functions, in conditions of normoxia, PHD utilizes oxygen as a co-substrate and hydroxylates proline residues on HIF1-a, initiating proteasomal degradation via the VHL ubiquitin-ligase protein complex. Unlike its wild type counterpart, the mutant IDH1 protein exhibits neo-morphic activity and catalyzes conversion of a-KG into R-2-HG an "onco-metabolite" that promotes tumorigenesis through multiple pathways.
BACKGROUND ::: Mutations in SLC25A4 (syn. ANT1, Adenine nucleotide translocase, type 1) are known to cause either autosomal dominant progressive external ophthalmoplegia (adPEO) or recessive mitochondrial myopathy, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, and lactic acidosis. ::: ::: ::: METHODS AND RESULTS ::: Whole exome sequencing in a young man with myopathy, subsarcolemmal mitochondrial aggregations, cardiomyopathy, lactic acidosis, and L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L-2-HGA) revealed a new homozygous mutation in SLC25A4 [c.653A>C, NM_001151], leading to the replacement of a highly conserved glutamine by proline [p.(Q218P); NP_001142] that most likely affects the folding of the ANT1 protein. No pathogenic mutation was found in L2HGDH, which is associated with "classic" L-2-HGA. Furthermore, L-2-HGDH enzymatic activity in the patient fibroblasts was normal. Long-range PCR and Southern blot confirmed absence of mtDNA-deletions in blood and muscle. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: The disturbed ADP/ATP transport across the inner mitochondrial membrane may lead to an accumulation of different TCA-cycle intermediates such as 2-ketoglutarate (2-KG) in our patient. As L-2-HG is generated from 2-KG we hypothesize that the L-2-HG increase is a secondary effect of 2-KG accumulation. Hence, our report expands the spectrum of laboratory findings in ANT1-related diseases and hints towards a connection with organic acidurias.
D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (D-2-HGA) is a rare metabolic disorder characterized by developmental delay, hypotonia, and bi-allelic mutations in D-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase (D2HGDH) or a single gain-of-function mutation in isocitrate dehydrogenase 2 (IDH2). Metaphyseal chondromatosis with D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (MC-HGA) is a type of D-2-HGA that has been previously reported in ten patients (OMIM 614875), three of whom had somatic mosaicism for R132 variants in isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 (IDH1). We describe a 3-year-old boy with MC-HGA who subsequently developed acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and was found to have an IDH1 R132C mutation in a leukemic bone marrow sample. Further testing revealed presence of somatic mosaicism for IDH1 R132C variant, suggesting an association of IDH1 in inducing myeloid leukemogenesis.
Treatnlerit with oral L-carnitine resulted in rapid cllrlical Improvn~erit, riormallzatlon of echocardlographic variables and of the myocardla1 and skcletal muscle biopsies. Car~lltlne conc remulned low 111 heart arid muscle. Oral tetrahydrobiopterin (THB) load has been recommended for the recognition of TlIB deficiency among hyperphenylalaninemic infants. In some patients with dihydropteridine reductnse (DlIPR) deficiency, the test has been reported to be ineffective. To explore such a resistance to THB, intestinalabsorp tion oC pteridines was investigated . In 10 control children the maximum biopterin (B) serum value was observed 4 hours after oral administration of 5 mgfkg THB. A wide range of B increase (14.6-190.5 nmolfl, mean : 73.2 nmolfl) was noted, suggesting a great variation in the intestinal absorption of THB. A constant rate intestinal perfusion study using a double lumen tube and polyethylene glycol 4000 as non absorbable marker was performed in 8 control infants and 1 adult.Pteridines were separated after acid and alcaline oxydation by ion-exchange HPLC chromatography. THB,B, and pterin mean absorption rates were as follows : THB = 14% (n=9), B=3% (n=3), pterin = 80 X (n=3). These results show a very low intestinal absorption of THB and B in man, and suggest the limiting role of the lateral chain 6-dihydroxypropyl, present in THB and B, and absent in pterin. They could explain the resistance to TllB during the oral loading test in DllPR deficient patients. Two daughters of related Turkish parents were investigated at the ages of 11 8/12 and 16 8/12 years for severe neurologic disease. This was characterised by pronounced psychomotor retardation, ataxia, dysmetria, dystonia and choreiform movements. Both girls were moderately obese and showed macrocephaly without dysmorphy. Laboratory investigation revealed increased protidorhachia (120 and 47 mg/dl), and increased cerebrospinal fluid lysine (80 and 50 pM; nl 10-25) and urinary 2-hydroxyglutaric acid (400-500 pM/g creatinine; nl < 1). Plasma and urinary lysine as well as cerebrospinal fluid 2-hydroxyglutaric acid were normal except for a slightly increased plasma lysine in one patieqt (270 rU; nl 60-230 This study was undertaken to investigate the molecular basis of the two different clinical phenotypes (acute and chronic forms) of type 1 tyrosinemia (fumarylacetoacetase deficiency). Fumarylacetoacetase (FAA) was isolated from beef liver and antibodies raised in rabbits. Analysis of fibroblasts extracts by immunoblotting showed the absence of cross-reacting material in cells from acute patients and reduced amounts in cells from chronic patients. Fibroblasts from controls nd from both acute and chronic patients were pulselabeled with 3'S-methionine followed by a chase of 1-4 days.
In this study, we report a four-year-old male with D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (D2HA) and enchondromatosis with a prior history of hyperpigmented, segmental whorls and streaks on his abdomen who later presented with an eruption of angiokeratoma circumscriptum within a similar distribution. His condition can likely be explained by underlying somatic mosaicism; however, a unifying culprit gene mutation has not yet been identified. To date, only 10 reported cases of D2HA with enchondromatosis are available in the literature with three reported skin findings. This is the first reported case of angiokeratoma circumscriptum associated with the rare condition of D2HA and enchondromatosis.
OBJECTIVE: To compare the prevalence of hereditary metabolic diseases in the native and non-native populations of Manitoba and northwestern Ontario. DESIGN: Retrospective analysis. SETTING: Children9s Hospital, Winnipeg. PATIENTS: Patients were selected by three methods: laboratory tests designed to screen patients suspected of having a metabolic disease, laboratory investigation of newborn infants with abnormalities detected through screening, and investigation of near relatives of probands with disease. RESULTS: A total of 138 patients with organic acid, amino acid and carbohydrate disorders were seen from 1960 to 1990. Of these, 49 (36%) were native Indians (Algonkian linguistic group). This was in sharp contrast to the proportion of native Indians in the total study population (5.8%). Congenital lactic acidosis due to pyruvate carboxylase deficiency (13 patients), glutaric aciduria type I (14 patients) and primary hyperoxaluria type II (8 patients) were the most common disorders detected. Other rare disorders included glutaric aciduria type II (one patient), 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (one patient) and sarcosinemia (one patient). Underreporting, especially of glutaric aciduria type I and hyperoxaluria type II, was likely in the native population. CONCLUSIONS: Hereditary metabolic diseases are greatly overrepresented in the native population of Manitoba and northwestern Ontario. We recommend that native children who present with illnesses involving disturbances of acid-base balance or with neurologic, renal or liver disease of unknown cause by investigated for a possible metabolic disorder.
Using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC/MS), urinary organic acid profile studies were carried out on a patient with dihydrolipoyl dehydrogenase (E3) deficiency. Elevated levels of 2-hydroxyglutaric acid, 2-hydroxyisocaproic acid and 2-oxoisocaproic acid were observed in addition to lactic acid, 2-oxoglutaric acid, 2-hydroxyisovaleric acid and 2-hydroxybutyric acid previously described in patients with E3 deficiency. The 2-oxoglutaric acid levels were significantly lowered after branched-chain amino acid restriction. In an acute period, the patient was slightly ketoacidotic and excreted larger amounts of 2-oxoglutaric acid and lactic acid than in a static period. It was shown that, prior to confirmatory enzyme studies, patients with E3 deficiency who were suspected to have atypical maple syrup urine disease or chronic lactic acidosis can be rapidly identified by GC/MS analysis of urinary acids.
D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (D2HA) with enchondromatosis is a neurometabolic and skeletal disorder that has rarely been described in the literature in sporadic patients [1] . It is characterized by developmental delay, epilepsy, hypotonia, and dysmorphic features, in addition to multiple benign masses of hyaline cartilage in the medulla of metaphyseal bone. Heterozygous variants in isocitrate dehydrogenase 1-gene or isocitrate dehydrogenase 2-gene are associated with this disorder, with molecularly characterized cases appearing to be mosaic [1] .
Abstract 2-Amino-5-hydroxyadipic acid has previously been shown to be a degradation product of 5-hydroxylysine and 5-hydroxypipecolic acid in bacterial and mammalian systems. 2-Amino-5-hydroxyadipic acid-6- 14 C has now been synthesized and its metabolism has been studied in preparations of rat liver. 2-Keto-5-hydroxyadipic acid and 2-hydroxyglutaric acid have been identified as metabolites. 2-Keto-5-hydroxyadipic acid is transaminated to 2-amino-5-hydroxyadipic acid. Natural erythro -5-hydroxy- l -lysine should yield d -2-hydroxyglutaric acid, and in these experiments only the d -form of 2-hydroxyglutaric acid was oxidized by mitochondria prepared from rat liver.
Three out of four sibs in a North-African family were affected with L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. The youngest sib was most severely handicapped: she was diagnosed at 2.5 years of age, whereas the then 7- and 10-year-old siblings had a less pronounced psychomotor retardation. All patients had an increased head circumference in contrast to the healthy, non-affected sibling. Urine and plasma levels of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid in the three sibs were similar and showed only a small variation. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain in the eldest sib showed hyperintense signal on T 2- weighted images of the basal ganglia, dentate nucleus and subcortical white matter. The youngest sib showed identical white matter abnormalities of the corpus medullare cerebelli. These abnormalities were consistent with demyelination and/or spongiosis. On two occasions cerebrospinal fluid amino acid chromatography in the youngest sib showed an increased concentration of lysine and a decreased level of glutamine. Plasma lysine was normal. It is concluded that L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria is almost invariably associated with neurological disease; the severity of the symptoms does not seem to be completely dependent on the extent of the biochemical abnormalities and may even be variable within a family.
BACKGROUND ::: D-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria (D-2-HGA), L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L-2-HGA), and the combined D/L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (D/L-2-HGA) are poorly understood organic acidurias. To investigate the usefulness of cultured human skin fibroblasts for both diagnostic and research purposes, we measured disease-related metabolites in the cell culture medium. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: We measured D-2-hydroxyglutarate (D-2-HG), L-2-hydroxyglutarate (L-2-HG), succinate, 2-ketoglutarate, and citrate in fibroblast cell medium by stable-isotope-dilution gas chromatography-mass spectrometry and glutamine, glutamic acid, and lysine with an amino acid analyzer. We used six cell lines from patients with D-2-HGA, two from patients with L-2-HGA, three from patients with D/L-2-HGA, and seven control cell lines. Culture medium was analyzed after a 96-h incubation period. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Culture media from cell lines from D-2-HGA patients contained D-2-HG at concentrations 5- to 30-fold higher than media from controls, whereas the concentration of L-2-HG in media was not increased. Media from L-2-HGA cell lines showed a fivefold increase in L-2-HG compared with controls. Media containing fibroblasts from D/L-2-HGA patients contained moderately increased amounts of both D-2-HG and L-2-HG. For all cell lines, succinate concentrations in the blank medium were higher than after 96 h of incubation with the exception of two of three D/L-2-HGA cell lines. Media of D-2-HGA cell lines had 2-ketoglutarate concentrations that were 40% of that for controls. Glutamic acid concentrations in media of these cell lines were 60% lower than in controls. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: Cell culture media from fibroblasts from patients with D-2-HGA, L-2-HGA, or D/L-2-HGA contain increased amounts the corresponding 2-HGs, demonstrating the suitability of fibroblasts for both diagnosis of and research concerning 2-HGAs.
The neurometabolic disorder L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria was recently shown to be due to a defect in L-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase. This FAD-linked enzyme catalyses the irreversible conversion of L-2-hydroxyglutarate to alpha-ketoglutarate. The formation of L-2-hydroxyglutarate results from a side-activity of mitochondrial L-malate dehydrogenase, the enzyme which normally catalyses the interconversion of oxaloacetate and L-malate, but which also catalyses the NADH-dependent conversion of alpha-ketoglutarate to L-2-hydroxyglutarate. Though very slow, this activity accounts for the in vivo formation of L-2-hydroxyglutarate. As the latter compound is most likely toxic, L-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase catalyses a metabolite repair reaction.
BACKGROUND ::: The gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) method for organic acid analysis was established in developed countries since 1980s, but due to the small number of experienced clinical biochemists in this field and also the short availability of mass spectrometers scarce reports exist on the prevalence of organic acidemias (OAs) in developing countries like Brazil. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: During January 1994 to July 2008, we analyzed organic acids by GC/MS in urine specimens obtained from Brazilian children with clinical suspicion of metabolic diseases. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Two hundred and thirty four cases of disorders of organic acid metabolism, including 218 OAs (3.17%), were diagnosed among 6866 patients investigated. The most frequent disorders were primary lactic acidemia (57), methylmalonic acidemia (34), glutaric acidemia type I (33), propionic acidemia (18), 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaric aciduria (17), L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (9) and multiple carboxylase deficiency (9). Fourteen cases of mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation disorders, as well as 12 aminoacidopathies and 4 cases of vitamin B12 deficiency were also detected. Prompt treatment following diagnosis led to a better outcome in a considerable number of patients. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Detection of OAs in loco in developing countries is important despite the implied extra costs, since it allows rapid therapy in many cases with a significant reduction of morbidity and mortality and makes the physicians more aware of these pathologies.
KEYWORDS L2HGDH, 2-HG, leukoencephalopathy, gliosis, neurodegeneration T he rare, autosomal recessive neurometabolic disorders D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (D-2-HGA) and L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L-2-HGA) are characterized by the accumulation of D-2-hydroxyglutarate (D-2-HG) and L-2-hydroxyglutarate (L-2-HG), respectively, in body fluids. Genetic characterization has shown that 50% of the D-2-HGA population and the majority of L-2-HGA patients harbor pathogenic mutations in D2HGDH and L2HGDH genes, respectively (1-3). The other half of D-2-HGA patients have a gain-of-function mutation in isocitrate dehydrogenase 2 (IDH2) at the residue of R140 (R140Q), which leads to abnormally high accumulation of D-2-HG (4). Based on phenotypic severity in patients, D-2-HGA is classified as mild type I (D2HGDH mutation) and severe type II (IDH2 mutation) (4, 5). Of note, 2-HG concentrations are 2-to 8-fold higher for type II D-2-HGA than type I D-2-HGA patients (4, 6, 7), suggesting that 
The neurodegenerative disorder glutaric aciduria type I (GA I) is characterized by increased levels of cytotoxic metabolites such as glutaric acid (GA) and 3-hydroxyglutaric (3OHGA). The present report summarizes recent investigations providing insights into mechanisms of intra- and intercellular translocation of these metabolites. Initiated by microarray analyses in a mouse model of GA I, the sodium-dependent dicarboxylate cotransporter 3 (NaC3) was the first molecule identified to mediate the translocation of GA and 3OHGA with high and low affinity, respectively. More recently, organic anion transporters (OAT) 1 and 4 have been reported to be high-affinity transporters for GA and 3OHGA as well as D-2- and L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid (D2OHGA, L2OHGA). The concerted action of NaC3 and OATs may be important for the directed uptake and excretion of GA, 3OHGA, D2OHGA and L2OHGA in kidney proximal tubule cells. In addition, experimental data on cultured neuronal and glial cells isolated from mouse brain demonstrated that GA rather than 3OHGA may competitively inhibit the anaplerotic supply of tricarboxylic acid cycle intermediates from astrocytes to neurons. The identification of GA and GA derivative transporters may represent targets for new approaches to treat patients with GA I and related disorders.
L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L2HGA) is an autosomal recessive disorder that is caused by deficiency of 2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase. Pathophysiology of brain damage is poorly understood. In recent years, it was proposed that oxidative stress was elevated and led to brain injury. Aim of this study is to evaluate thiol/disulphide homeostasis as an indicator of oxidative stress in L2HGA patients who have been receiving antioxidant treatment. Sixteen L2HGA patients and 16 healthy individuals were included in the study. All the L2HGA patients were regularly followed up and presented neurological dysfunction at different grades. Fourteen patients had been receiving antioxidant treatment. Serum native thiol (-SH), total thiol (-SH + -S-S-) and disulphide (-S-S) levels were measured. Disulphide/native thiol, disulphide/total thiol and native thiol/total thiol ratios were calculated from these values. No significant difference was observed in -SH, -SH + -S-S-, -S-S levels between two groups. In addition to that, no increase of disulphide/native thiol and disulphide/total thiol ratios was detected. Thiol/disulphide homeostasis parameters were also compared between patients who had been receiving and not receiving antioxidant therapy; and between different types of antioxidant therapy and the results did not point to any significant difference. This is the first study that evaluates dynamic thiol/disulphide homeostasis as an indicator of oxidative stress in L2HGA and it has one of the largest sample sizes among previous studies. In our study we suggest that antioxidant therapy should be effective in preventing oxidative stress in L2HGA patients, which has been reported in previous studies and should be a part of standard therapy.
The neurometabolic disorder L: -2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria is caused by mutations in a gene present on chromosome 14q22.1 and encoding L: -2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase. This FAD-linked mitochondrial enzyme catalyses the irreversible conversion of L: -2-hydroxyglutarate to alpha-ketoglutarate. The formation of L: -2-hydroxyglutarate results from a side-activity of mitochondrial L: -malate dehydrogenase, the enzyme that interconverts oxaloacetate and L: -malate, but which also catalyses, very slowly, the NADH-dependent conversion of alpha-ketoglutarate to L: -2-hydroxyglutarate. L: -2-Hydroxyglutarate has no known physiological function in eukaryotes and most prokaryotes. Its accumulation is toxic to the mammalian brain, causing a leukoencephalopathy and increasing the susceptibility to develop tumours. L: -2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria appears to be the first disease of 'metabolite repair'.
Flexibacter maritimus, a Gram-negative bacterium, is a fish pathogen responsible for disease in finfish species and a cause of cutaneous erosion disease in sea-caged salmonids. For the development of serology based diagnostics, protective vaccines, and a study of pathogenesis, the structural analysis of the lipopolysaccharide (LPS) produced by the bacterium has been undertaken. We now report that an acidic O-specific polysaccharide, obtained by mild acid degradation of the F. maritimus LPS was found to be composed of a disaccharide repeating unit built of 2-acetamido-3-O-acetyl-4-[(S)-2-hydroxyglutar-5-ylamido]-2,4,6-trideoxy-β-glucose and 5-acetamido-7-[(S)-3-hydroxybutyramido]-8-amino-3,5,7,8,9-pentadeoxynonulopyranosonic acid (Sug) having the structure: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: The configuration of the C-2–C-7 fragment of the latter monosaccharide (B) was assigned β-manno; however, the configuration at C-8 could not be established. NMR data indicate that the two monosaccharides have opposite absolute configurations. The repeating unit includes a linkage via a (S)-2-hydroxyglutaric acid residue, reported here for the first time as a component of a bacterial polysaccharide. The LPS was also found to contain a minor amount of a disaccharide β-Sug-(2-3)-l-Rha, isolated from the products of the acidic methanolysis of the LPS.
A five-year-old, neutered male West Highland white terrier was presented to the Neurology Unit at the Animal Health Trust, Newmarket, for investigation of a long-standing history of a gait abnormality affecting all four limbs, impaired vision, inappropriate behaviour (loss of obedience training and staring at walls) and recent episodes of severe head tremor when stressed. The clinical signs had an insidious onset and progressively became more severe. Neurological examination demonstrated mild dementia and moderate ataxia of all four limbs, with the additional finding of thoracic limb hypermetria. Severe postural deficits were evident in all four limbs, as shown by the dog’s impaired ability to perform hopping and placing tests, but its segmental spinal cord reflexes were intact. Cranial nerve examination demonstrated a decreased menace response, in the presence of normal pupillary light reflexes. The neuroanatomic localisation was consistent with a diffuse and symmetrical intracranial lesion affecting the forebrain, brainstem and cerebellum. Based on the neurolocalisation and clinical history, the most likely differential diagnoses included inflammatory and degenerative central nervous system diseases and metabolic encephalopathy. Initial diagnostic evaluations, including a complete blood count, serum biochemistry and preand postprandial bile acid concentrations, were all within normal limits. A MRI scan of the brain was performed under general anaesthesia with a 1·5 T superconducting magnet (1·5 T Signa Echospeed system; General Electric Medical Systems) and an extremity coil. The following pulse sequences were used: T1-weighted preand postcontrast after intravenous administration of 0·1 L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria in a West Highland white terrier
3 ; 2-hydroxypentanedioic acid) is a five-carbon dicarboxylic acid with the hydroxy group on the ␣-carbon. D-2HG accumulates in humans in the inherited neurometabolic disorder 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (2HGA) due to a deficiency in D-2HG dehydrogenase (D-2HGDH) (1), which converts D-2HG to 2-oxoglutarate (2OG); the electron transfer flavoprotein (ETF); or the ETF-ubiquinone oxidoreductase (ETFQO) (2), both electron acceptors of D-2HGDH (1). The clinical symptoms encompass developmental retardation, neurological dysfunction, and cerebral atrophy (1). In addition to high levels of 2HG, patients with 2HGA also have high concentrations of TCA cycle intermediates. On the other hand, excess accumulation of D-2HG contributes to the formation and malignant progression of brain tumors (3). Mutations in the cytosolic enzyme IDH1 (isocitrate dehydrogenase 1) occur in ϳ80% of secondary brain cancer tumors and in nearly onetenth of acute myelogenous leukemia tumors. Normally, IDH1 catalyzes the conversion of isocitrate to 2OG. Cancer-associated mutations in IDH1 reduce the affinity of the enzyme for isocitrate and increase the affinity for NADPH and 2OG. This prevents the oxidative decarboxylation of isocitrate to 2OG and facilitates the conversion of 2OG to D-2HG. In this way, IDH1 mutations cause a gain of function, resulting in the production and accumulation of D-2HG (3).
Mutations of isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 (IDH1) and isocitrate dehydrogenase 2 (IDH2) were found to create the capability of the enzyme to change α-ketoglutarate to an oncometabolite, R(−)-2-hydroxyglutarate (2-HG), although IDH1 and IDH2 catalyze the oxidative carboxylation of isocitrate to α-ketoglutarate in cytosol and mitochondria, respectively (Dang et al. 2009 ). Reportedly, 2-HG accumulates in an inherited metabolic disorder, 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, as a consequence of 2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase deficiency, because 2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase converts 2-HG to α-ketoglutarate (Struys et al. 2005) . Patients with 2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase deficiencies are known to accumulate 2-HG in the brain, to develop leukoencephalopathy, and to have increased risk of brain tumors. Moreover, elevated 2-HG levels in the brain result in increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) concentrations, potentially contributing to an increased risk of cancer (Kolker et al. 2002) . IDH1/2 mutations occur in some gliomas ), cartilaginous tumors (Amary et al. 2011; Pansuriya et al. 2011) , and in acute myeloid leukemias (Ward et al. 2010) . In astrocytomas, oligodendrogliomas, oligoastrocytomas, and secondary glioblastomas, IDH1/2 mutations have been identified as early and frequent genetic alterations (50-93%). They might be the initiating event in these glioma subtypes (Balss et al. 2008; Parsons et al. 2008; Sonoda et al. 2009; Yan et al. 2009 ). In contrast, primary glioblastomas rarely contain IDH1/2 mutations (< 5%).
This report describes three brothers belonging to a consanguineous family suffering from a progressive neurological disorder associated with L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. Clinically this disorder is characterized by childhood onset, pyramidal signs, cerebellar and pseudobulbar syndromes and epilepsy. Pathological examination of the brain in the oldest patient, who died at the age of 30 years, showed bilateral and diffuse spongiosis with notable cystic cavitations of the cerebral white matter without abnormal storage in neurons and glial cells. We consider that these findings are related to L-2 hydroxyglutaric aciduria. To our knowledge this present case represents the first to be reported with neuropathological examination.
We present a of 22 years old patient who has a severe cerebellar disease that started during the first years of life, borderline mental level, epilepsy and Klinefelter syndrome. Brain magnetic resonance (MR) imaging revealed swollen white matter with a loss of signal on T1-weighted slices and an increase in signal intensity on T2-weighted images in both cerebral hemispheres and in both cerebellar dentate nuclei. MRI alterations did not change during the studies performed from 4 to 21 years. Blood and urine were analyzed and showed great elevation of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid (L-2-HGA) and more discrete elevation of its metabolites and lysine. The parents of the patient are first cousins.
Sirs, A 31-year-old male with childhood diagnosis of undefined mild learning disability presented to the neurological services with a 3-week history of rapid cognitive decline, functional decompensation and progressive ataxia following a single, brief (\30 s), witnessed, generalised tonic– clonic seizure. Epilepsy was diagnosed 5-years prior to presentation following two generalised tonic–clonic seizures, after which he had remained seizure free with carbamazepine therapy. He was born after an uncomplicated full-term pregnancy and delivery. His parents were healthy and non-consanguineous. Speech and motor milestones were normal. Mild intellectual delay became apparent at 6 years of age when difficulty with schoolwork and inability to keep up with peers was noticed. He completed schooling thereafter in a special needs school. From 18 years of age he was in permanent employment and fully independent in activities of daily living (ADLs). In the 3-week period preceding presentation, he was unable to continue working or function independently, needing new assistance with most ADLs, e.g. dressing, bathing, etc. Throughout childhood he was noted to be clumsy, mildly unsteady and have difficulty playing sport. Preceding admission unsteadiness markedly deteriorated and slurring of speech developed, together with new tendency for repetitive speech. Short-term memory impairment also developed. Clinical examination revealed dysarthria, cerebellar ataxia, bilateral dysmetria, lower limb hypertonia, pathological hyper-reflexia with extensor plantar responses, sustained ankle clonus and frontal release signs. Muscle strength testing was normal. He had preserved registration but impaired 5-min recall (1/3), echolalia, perseveration and impaired Luria 3 step command testing. There was no dysmorphism or macrocephaly. MRI brain revealed marked subcortical leukoencephalopathy, subcortical white matter loss and cerebellar atrophy (Fig. 1). EEGs demonstrated symmetrical delta activity without epileptiform discharge, consistent with an encephalopathic/neurodegenerative process. Urinary organic acid testing demonstrated a marked increase in 2-hydroxyglutarate excretion. CSF organic acid testing revealed a 2-hydroxyglutarate peak. CSF amino acid analysis showed elevated lysine titres (82 lmol/L: Normal range 6–32 lmol/L), consistent with 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (2HGA). Urinary and CSF enantiomeric analysis showed an L-isomer of 2-hydroxyglutarate, confirming a diagnosis of L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L2HGA). Treatment administered included riboflavin 150 mg twice daily and carnitine 1 g twice daily. Thereafter clinical status stabilized and no further deterioration occurred. Clinical examination 1 year later remains unchanged. 2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a rare, neurometabolic, autosomal recessive disorder of lysine metabolism. There are less than 20 adult reports of L2HGA (average age at time S. Saidha (&) S. Murphy M. Hennessy Department of Neurology, University College Hospital, Galway, Ireland e-mail: shivsaidha@hotmail.com
D-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria and L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria are two distinct inherited metabolic diseases. The accurate diagnosis of the exact disorder relies on the determination of the configuration of the enantiomers, either D-2-hydroxyglutaric acid or L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid excreted in excess in urine of patients. The enantiomeric chiral separation of 2-hydroxyglutaric acid was achieved using a ristocetin A glycopeptide antibiotic silica gel bonded column. The chiral column was interfaced with a tandem mass spectrometer for the purpose of specifically detecting the eluting 2-hydroxyglutaric acid. Tandem mass spectrometry was employed using an electrospray ion source in the negative ion mode. Three parent-to-daughter transitions under collision-induced dissociation conditions were used to detect only 2-hydroxyglutaric acid. The two forms of the compound were satisfactorily separated with almost baseline resolution at 4.95 and 5.5 min. Three known patients with 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria were identified to have L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. The method is simple, selective, rapid, and free from interference. Copyright © 2000 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Morphologic appearance and metabolic disturbances of the brain of a patient with L-2-hydroxyglutaric acidemia were investigated with use of magnetic resonance imaging and localized proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy in vivo. Whereas magnetic resonance imaging revealed increased internal and external cerebrospinal fluid spaces as well as patchy white matter lesions, metabolic deviations included a 50% decrease of N-acetylaspartate (neuronal marker), a 75% increase of myo-inositol (glial marker), and a 40% decrease of choline-containing compounds in white matter relative to age-matched controls. A clinical deterioration of the patient was clearly reflected in a follow-up examination 22 mo later, resulting in a further reduction of N-acetylaspartate and a more pronounced enhancement of myo-inositol. No elevation of lactate was observed. The magnetic resonance spectroscopy findings are in line with a generalized neurodegenerative process in L-2-hydroxyglutaric acidemia but also suggest a defect in phosphatidyl inositol metabolism of glial cells.
In most tissues the mitochondrial ATP-synthase plays a central role by synthesizing the bulk of ATP. According to the classical theory of respiratory control, flux through this enzyme is solely determined by substrate (ADP) concentration while the enzyme has a fixed capacity. However, in different cell types such as rat cardiomyocytes and neurons, dog heart, human fibroblasts, and skeletal and heart muscle from children, it has been shown that active regulation of the mitochondrial ATP-synthase in response to cellular energy demand exists. For example, in rat cardiomyocytes the mitochondrial ATP-synthase activity is down-regulated in response to anoxia or mitochondrial uncoupling. By this mechanism cellular ATP is conserved, as under these conditions the ATP-synthase would work in reverse and hydrolyze ATP. When cardiomyocytes are stimulated to contract, ATP-synthase activity is up-regulated in line with the increased energy demand. Preincubation of the cardiomyocytes with positive inotropic substances results in further up-regulation of the ATP-synthase. By blocking calcium transport, it has been shown that the up-regulation of the enzyme is calcium-dependent. On a molecular level, up-regulation is probably mediated by the calcium-binding inhibitor protein (CaBI) and down-regulation via the inhibitor protein IF(1). The ATP-synthase system is disturbed under several pathophysiological conditions. First, mutations can cause a primary defect in the mitochondrial ATP-synthase (respiratory chain defect). Furthermore, secondary defects of the ATP-synthase occur. In rat models abnormalities of ATP-synthase can be detected in different types of cardiomyopathy/heart hypertrophy. The changes are reversible in response to treatment of the heart diseases. Abnormalities of the ATP-synthase system can be observed in fibroblasts from patients with neuronal ceroidlipofuscinoses. Toxic metabolites accumulating in methylmalonic acidurias can inhibit ATP-synthase. When neurons are incubated with 3-OH glutarate - a substance accumulating in glutaric aciduria I-as a model for glutaric aciduria I, ATP-synthase activity is compromised. This lack of energy may lead to 'slow onset' excitotoxicity and finally cell death. Cells can be rescued by adding creatine to the incubation medium. In D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, inhibition of the ATP-synthase has been observed.
Objective: To report the importance of a rare organic acid metabolic disorder, L -2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, and its characteristic neuroimaging cerebral white ma
Case summary A 14-month-old male castrated domestic shorthair cat, which 2 months prior to presentation underwent hindlimb amputation following a road traffic accident, presented for investigation of four suspected generalised tonic–clonic seizures. Neurological examination was unremarkable. Routine blood work (haematology, biochemistry, ammonia, preprandial bile acids) was unremarkable. MRI of the brain identified marked symmetrical T2-weighted hyperintensities of the cerebellum and brainstem, mainly affecting the grey matter. Urine amino acid and mucopolysaccharide levels were unremarkable. Urine organic acids on two separate samples, 35 days apart, identified highly increased excretion of 2-hydroxyglutaric acid, indicative of 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. The cat was started on anticonvulsant therapy with phenobarbitone, which, at the point of writing, has improved seizure control, although the cat has not achieved seizure freedom. Relevance and novel information This case report describes the first reported case of a 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, an inherited neurometabolic disorder, as a cause for seizure-like episodes in a cat.
Objective To investigate the clinical and biochemical profiles of the patients with lipid storage myopathy due to late onset glutaric aciduria type Ⅱ. Methods Seven patients (5 boys and 2 girls) with lipid storage myopathy due to glutaric aciduria type Ⅱ were reviewed. The diagnosis was confirmed by urinary organic acid analysis, blood free fatty acid assay with gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) and acylcarnitine profile by tandem mass spectrometry. Their clinical features, laboratory findings, and treatment were studied.Results These previous healthy patients began to develop progressive fatigue, proximal muscular weakness and pain from an age of 9 to 24 years. Five of them had poor appetite and body weight loss. Three had episodic palpitation. Three had recurrent lethargy. All patients had mild hepatomegly. Mild muscular weakness, hypotonia and absence of deep tendon reflexes were found in 4 of them. A marked elevation of serum CK, CK-MB, LDH, HBDH and a slight increase of lactate, pyruvate and β-OH-butyric acid were observed. A decrease of free carnitine was found in 7 patients. Three had hypoglycemia and ketosis. Mild metabolic acidosis and hyperammonemia were found in one boy. Muscle biopsy revealed lipid storage myopathy in all patients. Two of them had muscle fibers atrophy. Dried blood cis-4-decenoic acid (C10∶1), cis-4-tetradecenoic acid (C14∶1), middle chain and long chain acylcarnitine were significantly increased in all patients. An elevated excretion of 2-hydroxyglutaric acid, 3-hydroxyglutaric acid, 2-hydroxyisovaleric acid, and ethylmalonic acid in urine were confirmed in 4 patients. Ketotic dicarboxylic aciduria was found in 1 patient. All of the patients were responded to large dose of riboflavin (100～500 mg/d) significantly. Carnitine, coenzyme Q_(10) supplementation and protein-restricted diet were given for 1 to 2 months as a supporting therapy. Pronounced and rapid clinical and biochemical improvement was observed. All patients went back school or to work after 1 to 3 months therapy. Conclusions The late onset glutaric aciduria type Ⅱ is characterized by lipid storage myopathy. The adolescent patients might respond to riboflavin significantly. Early diagnosis and adequate therapy could contribute a lot to improve the prognosis of the patients. Urinary organic acid analysis and blood free fatty acid assay should be very helpful to the diagnosis.
Diffuse gliomas are the most prevalent brain tumors in adults with an overall unfavorable prognosis. Low-grade gliomas and secondary glioblastomas are characterized by mutations in IDH1/2 (isocitrate dehydrogenase 1/2), which are associated with a longer overall survival and better response to therapy compared to IDH-wildtype gliomas [1] [2] [3] [4] . The most frequent mutation observed in more than 90% of cases is the amino acid substitution arginine to histidine at codon 132 of the cytoplasmic enzyme isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 (IDH1 c.395G>A; R132H) [1, 2] . Other rare IDH1 variants in codon 132 have been described in gliomas, including R132C, R132S, R132G, and R132L, which show similar effects on IDH1 activity [5] . IDH1/2 mutations are assumed to be one of the earliest genetic alterations and are considered to play a key role in glioma development [6] . However, the mechanisms by which mutant IDH transforms the cell remain insufficiently understood. The wildtype IDH1 converts isocitrate to α-ketoglutarate (α-KG) while reducing nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADP + ) to NADPH. In contrast, mutant IDH1 is unable to efficiently catalyze the oxidative decarboxylation of isocitrate, but acquires a neomorphic catalytic activity that allows the NADPH-dependent reduction of α-KG into 2-hydroxyglutarate (2-HG) [7] . Now accepted to be an oncometabolite, 2-HG has been a focus for IDH1/2 research for the past decade [8, 9] . It has been shown that 2-HG inhibits α-KG-dependent dioxygenases such as methylcytosine dioxygenase (TET2), which leads to the CpG island-methylator phenotype (G-CIMP) prevalent in gliomas with IDH1/2 mutations [10, 11] . On the other hand, the supraphysiological accumulation of 2-HG is also seen in patients with 2-hydroxyglutaric acidurias. This rare neurometabolic disease is related to the germline mutations in D2HGDH but, to the best of our knowledge, these patients show no increased prevalence for brain tumor formation [12, 13] . This suggests 2-HG independent effects of IDH1 R132H during tumorigenesis.
2-Hydroxyglutaric acidurias (2-HGA) are a group of inherited neurometabolic disorders, recognised in human and canine populations, [1] [2] [3] occurring as a result of an inborn error of metabolism. Although, to our knowledge, there is no reported presentation in cats, the condition is well described in dogs with gait dysfunction, body and/or head tremors and seizure-like/dyskinetic episodes reported in Staffordshire Bull Terriers. 3 There are two chiral forms: L-2-HGA and D-2-HGA, with a third, mixed form D-, L-2-HGA reported in human medicine. 4 L-2-HGA has been described in Staffordshire Bull Terriers, 2,3 a West Highland White Terrier 5 and Yorkshire Terriers. 6 Lysosomal storage diseases are widely recognised in the feline population. [7] [8] [9] The clinical signs are often thought to be secondary to intracellular accumulation of by-products due an interrupted metabolic pathway. There is a vast array of clinical signs associated with these diseases, 9 including behavioural change, ataxia, loss of learned behaviour, seizure activity, proprioceptive deficits, tremors and dysmetria. Reports of inherited acidurias in cats causing neurological dysfunction are rare, 10, 11 In primary hyperoxaluria with L-glyceric aciduria, the renal tubules and axons within the dorsal root ganglia are primarily affected, causing renal failure and a peripheral neuropathy manifesting as weakness. 10 There have been reports of acquired methylmalonic aciduria in cats secondary to cobalamin deficiency. 12, 13 In the case where cobalamin deficiency was suspected, the cat had signs consistent with an encephalopathy, including behavioural change, mental dullness and ataxia. 12 The purpose of this report is to describe a case of 2-HGA in a cat and detail the diagnostic test results and response to therapy.
In addition to these PIK3CA hotspot mutations, the sequencing of greater numbers of tumors is revealing numerous tail mutations existing outside the hotspot locations. Although some efforts have been made to functionally characterize PIK3CA tail mutations (e.g., refs. [8] [9] [10] [11] , their growing number among tumor NGS datasets requires flexible approaches to characterize the functional impact of large numbers of mutant variants. This is true not only for PIK3CA, but also for other cancer genes with increasing numbers of identified mutations afforded by greater NGS sequencing depths. Recent studies demonstrate the need for comprehensive functional testing of cancer gene variants. For example, mutations in isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH1 and IDH2), which occur in low-grade gliomas and secondary highgrade gliomas, inhibit the enzyme's ability to catalyze conversion of isocitrate to alpha-ketoglutarate while conferring a neomorphic activity for reduction of a-ketoglutarate to d-2-hydroxyglutaric acid (2-HG) (12) . 2-HG is proposed to function as an oncogenic metabolite by inducing hypermethylation of histones and DNA (13) , thus much work is focused on developing effective inhibitors of mutant IDH1/2. Similar to studies on IDH1/2, a recent examination of mutant isoforms of PIK3R1, which encodes the p85a regulatory subunit of PI3K, revealed novel activity for cancer-associated variants (14) . Unlike other mutations in PIK3R1 that function to activate PI3K activity, truncating variants at positions R348 and L370 confer unexpected neomorphic activation of JNK pathway and response to JNK inhibitors resulting from the mutant proteins' mislocalization to the nucleus (14) .
The simultaneous enantiomeric separation of 30 racemic acids including 24 hydroxy acids in a single analysis is described for the determination of their absolute configurations. It involves the conversion of each enantiomer into diastereomeric O-trifluoroacetylated (−)-menthyl ester for the direct separation by gas chromatography on achiral dual-capillary columns of different polarities, with subsequent identification and chiral discrimination by retention index (I) library matching. Among the acids studied, the enantiomers of 27 acids were discriminatively resolved on both non-polar DB-5 and the intermediate-polar DB-17 columns with resolution factors in the range of 0.7–7.7 and separation factors in the range of 1.002–1.021. Enantiomers of 3-hydroxybutyric and α-methoxyphenylacetic acids were partially resolved on DB-5 (resolution factor of 0.9), but not resolved on DB-17, while the baseline resolution for 3-hydroxydecanoic acid and the minimal separation on the peak top (resolution factor less than 0.7) for 2-hydroxyglutaric acid were achieved on DB-17 but not on DB-5. The temperature-programmed I values measured on both columns were characteristic of each enantiomer and thus simple I matching with the reference values was useful in cross-checking for their chemical identification and the chiral discrimination as well. When applied to a clinical urine sample, the present method allowed positive identification of endogenous (S)-lactic acid and (S)-2-hydroxybutyric acid along with (R)-3-hydroxybutyric acid.
L-2-Hydroxyglutaric acid (LGA) is the biochemical hallmark of patients affected by the neurometabolic disorder known as L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (LHGA). Although this disorder is predominantly characterized by severe neurological findings and pronounced cerebellum atrophy, the neurotoxic mechanisms of brain injury are virtually unknown. In the present study, we investigated the effect of LGA, at 0.25-5mM concentrations, on total creatine kinase (tCK) activity from cerebellum, cerebral cortex, cardiac muscle and skeletal muscle homogenates of 30-day-old Wistar rats. CK activity was measured also in the cytosolic (Cy-CK) and mitochondrial (Mi-CK) fractions from cerebellum. We verified that tCK activity was significantly inhibited by LGA in the cerebellum, but not in cerebral cortex, cardiac muscle and skeletal muscle. Furthermore, CK activity from the mitochondrial fraction was inhibited by LGA, whereas that from the cytosolic fraction of cerebellum was not affected by the acid. Kinetic studies revealed that the inhibitory effect of LGA on Mi-CK was non-competitive in relation to phosphocreatine. Finally, we verified that the inhibitory effect of LGA on tCK was fully prevented by pre-incubation of the homogenates with reduced glutathione (GSH), suggesting that this inhibition is possibly mediated by oxidation of essential thiol groups of the enzyme. Considering the importance of creatine kinase activity for energy homeostasis, our results suggest that the selective inhibition of this enzyme activity by increased levels of LGA could be possibly related to the cerebellar degeneration characteristically found in patients affected by L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria.
L-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria is an inborn error of metabolism, which has been recognized in humans since 1980. The metabolic defect responsible for the disease is unknown, but the disorder can be diagnosed in humans by elevations of the organic acid, L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), plasma, and urine of affected patients. The disorder produces a variety of clinical neurological defects in humans including psychomotor retardation, seizures, and ataxia. There have previously been no recognized animal models of the disease. However, 6 Staffordshire Bull Terriers were recently identified with the disorder. The animals presented with a variety of clinical signs, most notably seizures, ataxia, dementia, and tremors. They were all screened for organic acid abnormalities in urine, and CSF and plasma (when available). Levels of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid were elevated in all body fluids evaluated. The clinical, clinicopathologic, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) characteristics associated with L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid in Stafforshire Bull Terriers is reported herein and represents the first veterinary model of this inborn error of metabolism.
SUMMARY: Increasing evidence suggests that patients with L2-HGA have a predisposition to cerebral neoplasms. This may be related to the pathologic accumulation of L2-HG because high amounts of 2-HG have been found in brain neoplasms that have IDH1 mutations. Our experience, on the basis of 11 previously unreported cases of L2-HGA, 3 of which developed cerebral neoplasms during the course of the disease, also supports an association between L2-HGA and cerebral neoplasms. We conducted a meta-analysis of published data, and we identified 295 patients (including our 11 patients) with L2-HGA. In 14 patients, the metabolic disorder was associated with cerebral neoplasms, suggesting an approximately 5% prevalence rate of CNS neoplasms in patients with L2-HGA; nonetheless, it may still be an underestimate. L2-HGA is an important disease “model” that provides further evidence to support the recently proposed pathogenetic role of 2-HG in the development of cerebral neoplasms. ::: ::: 2-HG ::: : 2-hydroxyglutarate ::: IDH ::: : isocitrate dehydrogenase ::: L2-HG ::: : L-2-hydroxyglutarate ::: L2-HGA ::: : L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria ::: L2HGDH ::: : L-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase ::: MDH ::: : malate dehydrogenase ::: PNET ::: : primitive neuroectodermal tumor ::: WHO ::: : World Health Organization
We determined the optical isomer of the 2-hydroxyglutaric acid (2HG) that was elevated in the urine of five Japanese children with a mild form of glutaric aciduria type II (GA2), caused by a deficiency of electron transfer flavoprotein (ETF) or ETF-ubiquinone oxidoreductase (ETF-QO). The D- and L-enantiomers of 2HG were separated by capillary gas chromatography with a combination of (S)-(+)-2-octanol derivatization and chromatography on a DB-1 column. The isomer that was elevated in GA2 patients was predominantly the D-enantiomer, an observation that may serve as an additional marker for the biochemical diagnosis of GA2. D-2HG dehydrogenation, but not L-2HG dehydrogenation is apparently blocked in GA2. A specific D-2HG dehydrogenase or D-2HG-CoA dehydrogenase may be metabolically linked to ETF and ETF-QO in the mitochondria.
The clean-up presented here includes a free flow field step electrophoresis followed by ultrafiltration. Thus, organic acids can be separated from non-acidic and high-molecular compounds in roasted and instant coffee. The acids are identified by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry after freeze-drying and trimethylsilylation. With the method presented, 31 acids could be identified in commercial roasted coffee blends and in instant coffee, among them for the first time in coffee: 3-hydroxypropionic, 2-oxobutyric, glyceric, 2,4-dihydroxybutyric, 5-hydroxymethylfuran-2-carboxylic and 2-hydroxyglutaric acid.
Background: The differential diagnosis of d-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (d-2-HGA), l-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (l-2-HGA), and the combined d/l-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (d/l-2-HGA) can be accomplished only by the measurement of the corresponding 2-hydroxyglutarate (2-HG). Available methods for the determination of d- and l-2-HG in urine are either time-consuming and expensive or have not been extensively validated. We aimed to develop a method for their rapid and sensitive measurement. ::: ::: Methods: We used liquid chromatography–tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) for the determination of d- and l-2-HG with stable-isotope-labeled internal standards. Urine samples of 20 μL were mixed with 250 μL of methanol containing the internal standards and subsequently dried under nitrogen. The analytes were derivatized by use of diacetyl-l-tartaric anhydride (DATAN) to obtain diastereomers, which were separated on an achiral C18 HPLC column and detected by MS/MS in multiple-reaction-monitoring mode. ::: ::: Results: The use of DATAN as chiral derivatization reagent provided very well separated peaks of the formed diastereomers of d- and l-2-HG, with a total runtime of 5 min. The inter- and intraassay CVs for d- and l-2-HG ranged from 3.4% to 6.2%. Mean recoveries of d- and l-2-HG, evaluated on two concentrations, were 94%. Detection limit of the presented method was 20 pmol for a sample volume of 20 μL. Method comparison of the LC-MS/MS method with a gas chromatography–mass spectrometry method, in which d- and l-2-HG were derivatized with R -(−)-butanol, showed good agreement between the two methods. ::: ::: Conclusions: Urinary d- and l-2-HG can be analyzed by MS/MS after derivatization with DATAN. The presented method may be suitable for the differential diagnosis of 2-HGA.
ABBREVIATIONS 2-HG ϭ 2-hydroxyglutarate; IDH ϭ isocitrate dehydrogenase; L2-HG ϭ L-2-hydroxyglutarate; L2-HGA ϭ L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria; L2HGDH ϭ L-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase; MDH ϭ malate dehydrogenase; PNET ϭ primitive neuroectodermal tumor; WHO ϭ World Health Organization
First Person is a series of interviews with the first authors of a selection of papers published in Disease Models & Mechanisms, helping early-career researchers promote themselves alongside their papers. Hongde Li is first author on 'A Drosophila model of combined D-2-and L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria reveals a mechanism linking mitochondrial citrate export with oncometabolite accumulation', published in DMM. Hongde is a postdoctoral researcher in the lab of Jason Tennessen at Indiana University, Bloomington, USA, using genetic and metabolomic approaches to study biological functions of the oncometabolite L-2-hydoxyglutarate (2-HG). Specifically, he is interested in using Drosophila melanogaster to understand how L-2-HG metabolism is regulated in vivo.
Human mutations in a gene encoding the protein mitochondrial citrate carrier (CIC) cause a rare inborn error of metabolism known as combined D-/L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. A key feature of this disease is elevated levels of another protein, 2-hydroxyglutarate (2-HG), which are associated with severe neurological defects and developmental delay. In our study, we demonstrated that, in fruit flies, mutations in this gene induce metabolic defects that are similar to those observed in human patients. Moreover, we found that CIC regulates L-2-HG stability by governing the production of lactate, hinting at a potential treatment for patients with this disease.
Using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC/MS), urinary organic acid profile studies were carried out on a patient with dihydrolipoyl dehydrogenase (E3) deficiency. Elevated levels of 2-hydroxyglutaric acid, 2-hydroxyisocaproic acid and 2-oxoisocaproic acid were observed in addition to lactic acid, 2-oxoglutaric acid, 2-hydroxyisovaleric acid and 2-hydroxybutyric acid previously described in patients with E3 deficiency. The 2-oxoglutaric acid levels were significantly lowered after branched-chain amino acid restriction. In an acute period, the patient was slightly ketoacidotic and excreted larger amounts of 2-oxoglutaric acid and lactic acid than in a static period. It was shown that, prior to confirmatory enzyme studies, patients with E3 deficiency who were suspected to have atypical maple syrup urine disease or chronic lactic acidosis can be rapidly identified by GC/MS analysis of urinary acids.
22q11.2 deletion syndrome is one of the most common human microdeletion syndromes. The clinical phenotype of 22q11.2 deletion syndrome is variable, ranging from mild to life-threatening symptoms, depending mainly on the extent of the deleted region. Brain malformations described in association with 22q11.2 deletion syndrome include polymicrogyria, cerebellar hypoplasia, megacisterna magna, and agenesis of the corpus callosum (ACC), although these are rare. We report here for the first time a patient who manifested combined D-2- and L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria as a result of a hemizygous mutation in SLC25A1 in combination with 22q11.2 deletion. The girl was diagnosed to have ACC shortly after birth and a deletion of 22q11.2 was identified by genetic analysis. Although the patient showed cardiac anomalies, which is one of the typical symptoms of 22q11.2 deletion syndrome, her rather severe phenotype and atypical face prompted us to search for additional pathogenic mutations. Three genes present in the deleted 22q11.2 region, SLC25A1, TUBA8, and SNAP29, which have been reported to be associated with brain malformation, were analyzed for the presence of pathogenic mutations. A frameshift mutation, c.18_24dup (p.Ala9Profs*82), was identified in the first exon of the remaining SLC25A1 allele, resulting in the complete loss of normal SLC25A1 function in the patient's cells. Our results support the notion that the existence of another genetic abnormality involving the retained allele on 22q11.2 should be considered when atypical or rare phenotypes are observed.
L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L-2-HGA, MIM 236792) is a neurometabolic disorder caused by the toxic accumulation of high concentration of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid in plasma and cerebrospinal fluid. Distinct mutations on the L2HGDH gene have been associated with the clinical and biochemical phenotype. Here we present three novel mutations (Gln197X, Gly211Val and c.540+1 G>A), which increase the present deleterious collection of L2HGDH gene up to 35 mutations that we have compiled in this study. In addition, we used the haplotypic information based on polymorphic markers to demonstrate the common origin of Gly57Arg harboring chromosomes.
L-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L2HGA) is a rare, neurometabolic disorder with an autosomal recessive mode of inheritance. Affected individuals only have neurological manifestations, including psychomotor retardation, cerebellar ataxia, and more variably macrocephaly, or epilepsy. The diagnosis of L2HGA can be made based on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), biochemical analysis, and mutational analysis of L2HGDH. About 200 patients with elevated concentrations of 2-hydroxyglutarate (2HG) in the urine were referred for chiral determination of 2HG and L2HGDH mutational analysis. All patients with increased L2HG (n=106; 83 families) were included. Clinical information on 61 patients was obtained via questionnaires. In 82 families the mutations were detected by direct sequence analysis and/or multiplex ligation dependent probe amplification (MLPA), including one case where MLPA was essential to detect the second allele. In another case RT-PCR followed by deep intronic sequencing was needed to detect the mutation. Thirty-five novel mutations as well as 35 reported mutations and 14 nondisease-related variants are reviewed and included in a novel Leiden Open source Variation Database (LOVD) for L2HGDH variants (http://www.LOVD.nl/L2HGDH). Every user can access the database and submit variants/patients. Furthermore, we report on the phenotype, including neurological manifestations and urinary levels of L2HG, and we evaluate the phenotype-genotype relationship.
L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L-2-HGA, MIM 236792) is a neurometabolic disorder caused by the toxic accumulation of high concentration of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid in plasma and cerebrospinal fluid. Distinct mutations on the L2HGDH gene have been associated with the clinical and biochemical phenotype. Here we present three novel mutations (Gln197X, Gly211Val and c.540+1 G4A), which increase the present deleterious collection of L2HGDH gene up to 35 mutations that we have compiled in this study. In addition, we used the haplotypic information based on polymorphic markers to demonstrate the common origin of Gly57Arg harboring chromosomes.
D-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase (D2HGDH) is a mitochondrial enzyme that catalyzes the oxidation of D-2-HG into alpha-ketoglutarate (α-KG). Homozygous loss of the D2HGDH gene leads to accumulation of D-2-HG and causes type I D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (D-2-HGA), an autosomal recessive neurometabolic disease. Conversely, type II D-2-HGA is caused by de novo gain-of-function mutations in IDH2, which via its neomorphic activity also leads to accumulation of D-2-HG. The link between D2HGDH and IDH2 is also present in cancer. Gliomas and acute myeloid leukemia (AML) frequently display IDH1/2 mutations, which result in competitive inhibition of α-KG-dependent dioxygenases (e.g., DNA hydroxylases and histone demethylases) by D-2-HG, and epigenetic remodeling. We recently reported (Cancer Cell . 2017 31:619-620) that in IDH-mutant tumors, this epigenetic deregulation extends to RNA as D-2-HG also competitively inhibits the α-KG dependent RNA demethylase FTO, resulting in elevation of N6-Methyladenosine (m6A) RNA marks. Contrary to the gain-of-function IDH1/2 mutations of AML, we discovered somatic heterozygous loss-of-function mutations of D2HGDH in diffuse large B cell lymphomas (DLBCL) (Nat Commun . 2015 6:7768), which remarkably led to a DNA/histone hypermethylation phenotype similar to that of IDH-mutant tumors. However, we still do not know if loss of D2HGDH deregulates RNA methylation in DLBCL and if a haplo-insufficiency model explains the broad epigenetic remodeling found in D2HGDH-mutant DLBCL. Further, the role of the related mitochondrial enzyme, L2HGDH, which converts the enantiomer L-2-HG into α-KG, on RNA/DNA methylation has not been investigated. Addressing these knowledge gaps will delineate the extent of the metabolism/epigenetic interplay in DLBCL, in particular RNA methylation, which is an emerging pathogenic event in cancer. First, we utilized CRISP-Cas9 technology to create models of D2HGDH and/or L2HGDH knockout (KO) in HEK-293T cells. In all instances, at least two independent RNA guides were used per gene, and a minimum of three unique clones examined in downstream assays. Then, we edited the genome of DHL6, a D2HGDH-mutant (1262G/AG, pArg421His) DLBCL cell line, and KO or stably expressed D2HGDH in 5 additional DLBCL cell lines. Quantification of m6A RNA, and 5hmC or 5mC DNA, were completed as we described (Cancer Cell . 2017; Nat Commun . 2015). Histone methylation was defined by western blotting. Global m6A level was significantly elevated (~40% higher) in HEK-293T cells with D2HGDH or L2HGDH KO when compared to isogenic controls expressing empty lentiCRISPR-v2 (p These data establish possible oncogenic consequences of D2HGDH and L2HGDH loss. In particular, we show that: a) D2HGDH integrity regulates RNA methylation in DLBCL; b) deficiency of the related L2HGDH enzyme also influences RNA/DNA methylation and, c) CRISPR-based genome editing firmly establishes that D2HGDH haplo-insufficiency has pathogenetic consequences in DLBCL. We conclude that the imbalance between 2-HG and α-KG rewires the epigenome, and suggest that modulation of the cellular levels of these metabolites may represent a novel epigenetic therapeutic strategy. Disclosures No relevant conflicts of interest to declare.
Neurological dysfunction is common in patients with D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (DHGA). However, the mechanisms underlying the neuropathology of this disorder are far from understood. In the present study, we investigated the in vitro effects of D-2-hydroxyglutaric acid (DGA) at various concentrations (0.1-1.0 mM) on various parameters of the glutamatergic system, namely the basal and potassium-induced release of L-[3H]glutamate by synaptosomal preparations, Na(+)-dependent L-[3H]glutamate uptake by synaptosomal preparations and Na(+)-independent L-[3H]glutamate uptake by synaptic vesicles, as well as of Na(+)-independent and dependent L-[3H]glutamate binding to synaptic plasma membranes from cerebral cortex of male adult Wistar rats. We observed that DGA significantly increased synaptosomal L-[3H]glutamate uptake, without altering the other parameters. Although these findings do not support a direct excitotoxic action for DGA since the metabolite did not affect important parameters of the main neurotransmission system, they do not exclude a direct action of DGA on NMDA or other glutamate receptors. More comprehensive studies are therefore necessary to evaluate the exact role of DGA on neurotransmission.
D-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria was documented in a newborn who presented with seizures, hypotonia, cortical blindness, a movement disorder, and developmental delay. Her clinical presentation differs from that of patients with L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria and a single previously reported patient with D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. Cerebrospinal fluid levels of gamma-aminobutyric acid were elevated, while biogenic amine metabolites were normal. The movement disorder in our patient and in those with L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria suggests involvement of the basal ganglia in the disease process. Prenatal diagnosis of an affected fetus was accomplished during a subsequent pregnancy.
Many human cancers, particularly gliomas and acute myelogenous leukemia (AML), contain mutations in the genes IDH1 or IDH2 , which encode two isoforms of the metabolic enzyme isocitrate dehydrogenase ( 1 , 2 ). These mutant enzymes produce the ( R )-enantiomer of 2-hydroxyglutaric acid [( R )-2HG], a molecule that inhibits histone- and DNA-modifying enzymes, thereby altering gene expression and promoting the acquisition of malignant features ( 3 – 5 ). Reports by Losman et al. ( 6 ) as well as by Wang et al. ( 7 ) and Rohle et al. ( 8 ) on pages 622 and 626 of this issue, respectively, find that inhibitors of the mutant forms of IDH1/2 suppress the growth of ( R )-2HG–producing tumor cells ( 6 – 8 ). The findings imply that curtailing ( R )-2HG supply normalizes gene expression and reverses malignancy.
We report on a 9-year-old girl who was referred to our department because of increasing macrocephaly and school problems. The neurological examination disclosed mild cerebellar dysfunction and positive pyramidal tract signs. An MRI of the brain revealed extensive signal alterations of the white matter. Biochemical investigations established the diagnosis of L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria which has to be kept in mind as a rare cause of macrocephaly.
We present a of 22 years old patient who has a severe cerebellar disease that started during the first years of life, borderline mental level, epilepsy and Klinefelter syndrome. Brain magnetic resonance (MR) imaging revealed swollen white matter with a loss of signal on T1-weighted slices and an increase in signal intensity on T2-weighted images in both cerebral hemispheres and in both cerebelar dentate nuclei. MRI alterations did not change during the studies performed from 4 to 21 years. Blood and urine were analyzed and showed great elevation of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid (L-2-HGA) and more discrete elevation of its metabolites and lysine. The parents of the patient are first cousins.
D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (D2HGA) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder with variable clinical expression. The biochemical defect is unknown at present. Previously reported cases have either followed a severe clinical course characterized by neonatal epileptic encephalopathy, cortical blindness, and profound developmental delay, or a mild course characterized by mild developmental delay, manageable epilepsy, and mild hypotonia. To date there has been a clear distinction between these two groups. We report the second case of a child with D2HGA who has followed an intermediate course. She presented in infancy with hypotonia, manageable epilepsy and developed moderate to severe developmental delay, and cortical visual impairment. The proposita had a coarse facial appearance, flat face, broad nasal bridge, up-turned nose, and simple, anteverted ears. These facial anomalies have been noted in other children with D2HGA and this case strengthens the proposed association between this facial phenotype and D2HGA. We also report the third and fourth instances of prenatal diagnosis for D2HGA. At each prenatal diagnosis, an affected fetus was diagnosed on the basis of markedly increased levels of D-2-hydroxyglutaric acid in amniotic fluid. © 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
Author(s): Napoli, E; Tassone, F; Wong, S; Angkustsiri, K; Simon, TJ; Song, G; Giulivi, C | Abstract: © 2015 by The American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc. The congenital disorder 22q11.2 deletion syndrome (22qDS), characterized by a hemizygous deletion of 1.5-3 Mb on chromosome 22 at locus 11.2, is the most common microdeletion disorder (estimated prevalence of 1 in 4000) and the second risk factor for schizophrenia. Nine of - 30 genes involved in 22qDS have the potential of disrupting mitochondrial metabolism (COMT, UFD1L, DGCR8, MRPL40, PRODH, SLC25A1, TXNRD2, T10, and ZDHHC8). Deficits in bioenergetics during early postnatal brain development could set the basis for a disrupted neuronal metabolism or synaptic signaling, partly explaining the higher incidence in developmental and behavioral deficits in these individuals. Here, we investigated whether mitochondrial outcomes and metabolites from 22qDS children segregated with the altered dosage of one or several of these mitochondrial genes contributing to 22qDS etiology and/or morbidity. Plasma metabolomics, lymphocytic mitochondrial outcomes, and epigenetics (histone H3 Lys-4 trimethylation and 5-methylcytosine) were evaluated in samples from 11 22qDS children and 13 age- and sex-matched neurotypically developing controls. Metabolite differences between 22qDS children and controls reflected a shift from oxidative phosphorylation to glycolysis (higher lactate/pyruvate ratios) accompanied by an increase in reductive carboxylation of α-ketoglutarate (increased concentrations of 2-hydroxyglutaric acid, cholesterol, and fatty acids). Altered metabolism in 22qDS reflected a critical role for the haploinsufficiency of the mitochondrial citrate transporter SLC25A1, further enhanced by HIF-1α, MYC, and metabolite controls. This comprehensive profiling served to clarify the biochemistry of this disease underlying its broad, complex phenotype.
The most common microdeletion congenital disorder, 22qDS, is the second risk factor for schizophrenia. Results: Plasma metabolomics in 22qDS consisted of an oxidative phosphorylation-to-glycolysis shift with altered 2-hydroxyglutaric acid, cholesterol, and fatty acid concentrations. Conclusion: Despite the haploinsufficiency of ϳ30 genes, the 22qDS metabolic signature chiefly reflected deficits in the mitochondrial citrate transporter. Significance: Biochemical profiling of 22qDS unveiled the impact of SLC25A1 haploinsufficiency.
The congenital disorder 22q11.2 deletion syndrome (22qDS), characterized by a hemizygous deletion of 1.5-3 Mb on chromosome 22 at locus 11.2, is the most common microdeletion disorder (estimated prevalence of 1 in 4000) and the second risk factor for schizophrenia. Nine of ϳ30 genes involved in 22qDS have the potential of disrupting mitochondrial metabolism (COMT, UFD1L, DGCR8, MRPL40, PRODH, SLC25A1, TXNRD2, T10, and ZDHHC8). Deficits in bioenergetics during early postnatal brain development could set the basis for a disrupted neuronal metabolism or synaptic signaling, partly explaining the higher incidence in developmental and behavioral deficits in these individuals. Here, we investigated whether mitochondrial outcomes and metabolites from 22qDS children segregated with the altered dosage of one or several of these mitochondrial genes contributing to 22qDS etiology and/or morbidity. Plasma metabolomics, lymphocytic mitochondrial outcomes, and epigenetics (histone H3 Lys-4 trimethylation and 5-methylcytosine) were evaluated in samples from 11 22qDS children and 13 age-and sex-matched neurotypically developing controls. trations of 2-hydroxyglutaric acid, cholesterol, and fatty acids) . Altered metabolism in 22qDS reflected a critical role for the haploinsufficiency of the mitochondrial citrate transporter SLC25A1, further enhanced by HIF-1␣, MYC, and metabolite controls. This comprehensive profiling served to clarify the biochemistry of this disease underlying its broad, complex phenotype. 3 The abbreviations used are: PBMC, peripheral blood monocytic cell; TD, typically developing; mtDNA, mitochondrial DNA; H3K4, histone H3 Lys-4; H3K4me3, H3K4 trimethylation; BisTris, 2-[bis(2-hydroxyethyl)amino]-2-(hydroxymethyl)propane-1,3-diol; PLS-DA, partial least squares-discriminant analysis; VIP, variable importance in projection; OXPHOS, oxidative phosphorylation; L/P, lactate/pyruvate; 2HG, 2-hydroxyglutaric acid; TCA, tricarboxylic acid; ␣KG, ␣-ketoglutarate.
Autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) are a major health problem because of their high prevalence in the general population. The pathophysiology of ASD remains unclear, although genetic defects may be detected in 10-20% of affected patients. Among these cases, the prevalence of inherited metabolic disorders (IMD) has not been extensively evaluated. IMDs responsible for ASDs are usually identified via clinical manifestations such as microcephaly, dysmorphic features, convulsions, and hepatosplenomegaly. Infrequently, patients with no additional clinical symptoms suggestive of an IMD may be diagnosed as having an idiopathic ASD. High consanguinity rates have resulted in an increased prevalence of IMDs in the Turkish population. The aim of this study was to explore the benefits of systematic screening for IMD among Turkish patients with ASDs. In our study, data were retrospectively collected for 778 children with ASDs. In all cases, the metabolic investigations included an arterial blood gas analysis, serum ammonia and lactate levels, a quantitative plasma amino acid analysis, a whole blood acylcarnitine profile via tandem mass spectrometry and a urine organic acid profile. Urinary glycosaminoglycan levels and homocysteine levels were screened in selected cases; 300 of the 778 patients with ASDs whose physical and metabolic investigations were complete and met this study's criteria were enrolled. Among the 300 children with autism, IMD were diagnosed in nine patients as follows: two patients were diagnosed with phenylketonuria, and one patient was diagnosed with partial biotinidase deficiency; one patient was diagnosed with mucopolysaccharidosis type III, and one patient was diagnosed with classical homocystinuria; one patient was diagnosed with glutaric acidemia type 1, and one patient was diagnosed with short chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency; one patient was diagnosed with argininemia, and one patient was diagnosed with L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria.
Cell-free extracts of mixed rumen microorganisms were incubated in vitro in order to determine the existence and nature of metabolic conversions leading from succinate to glutamate. When succinate was incubated as the substrate in the presence of reduced ferredoxin (FDH), a product was formed, which reacted with 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine to give the hydrazone of succinic semialdehyde as determined by paper chromatography. When succinic semialdehyde was incubated in the presence of FDH and 14C-bicarbonate, fixation of label was catalyzed by the extracts. The labelled product was isolated as an organic acid and identified as 2-hydroxyglutaric acid by means of paper chromatography. In the presence of ammonia and NAD, 2-hydroxyglutarate was aminated to a ninhydrin-reactive compound that was identified as glutamate by paper chromatography.From the information obtained, a new pathway for the synthesis of glutamate in rumen microbes was proposed. This pathway entails the reduction of succinate to succinic semia...
Numerous congenital-genetic inborn errors of metabolism (CIEMs) have been identified and characterized in detail within recent decades, with promising therapeutic options. Neuroimaging is becoming increasingly utilized in earlier stages of CIEMs, and even in asymptomatic relatives of patients with a CIEM, so as to monitor disease progress and treatment response. This review attempts to summarize in a concise fashion the neuroimaging findings of various CIEMs that may present in adulthood, as well as those that may persist into adulthood, whether because of beneficial therapy or a delay in diagnosis. Notably, some of these disorders have neuroimaging findings that differ from their classic infantile or earlychildhood forms, whereas others are identical to their early pediatric forms. The focus of this review is their appearance on routine magnetic resonance imaging sequences, with some basic attention to the findings of such CIEMs on specialized neuroimaging, based on recent or preliminary research. The general classes of disorders covered in this complex review are: peroxisomal disorders (adrenoleukodystrophy), lysosomal storage disorders (including metachromatic leukodystrophy, Krabbe or globoid cell leukodystrophy, Fabry, Niemann-Pick, GM1, GM2, Gaucher, mucopolysaccharidoses, and Salla diseases), mitochondrial disorders (including mitochondrial encephalomyopathy with lactic acidosis and strokelike episodes, myoclonic epilepsy with ragged red fibers, Leigh disease, and Kearns-Sayre syndrome), urea cycle disorders, several organic acidemias (including phenylketonuria, maple syrup urine disease, 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl colyase deficiency, glutaric acidurias, methylmalonic academia, proprionic academia, 3-methylglucatonic aciduria, and 2-hydroxyglutaric acidurias), cytoskeletal or transporter molecule defects (including Alexander or fibrinoid leukodystrophy, proteolipid protein-1 defect or Pelizaeus Merzbacher, Wilson, and Huntington diseases), and several neurodegenerative disorders of brain iron accumulation. Additionally, an arbitrary “miscellaneous” category of 5 recognizable disorders that may present in or persist into adulthood is summarized, which include megalencephalic leukoencephalopathy with subcortical cysts (megancephalic leukoencephalopathy with subcortical cysts or van der Knaap disease), polymerase-III gene defect (“4H syndrome”), childhood ataxia with central nervous system hypomyelination (“vanishing white matter disease”), striopallidodentate calcinosis (“Fahr disease”), and Cockayne syndrome.
Leukodystrophy with macrocephaly as the main features of infantile neurodegenerative disease are characteristics of Canavan's disease, L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, type I glutaric aciduria, and Alexander's disease. Also occasionally described are occidental congenital muscular dystrophy, GM2-gangliosidosis, metachromatic leukodystrophy, Krabbe's disease, and mucopolysaccharidosis. Since 1995, over 60 patients with a new syndrome, vacuolating megalencephalic leukoencephalopathy, have been described. The syndrome is characterized by macrocephaly, a slowly progressive clinical course of ataxia, spastic paraparesis, and seizure disorder with relatively spared cognition. Unlike other leukodystrophies with macrocephaly (except Alexander's disease), no metabolic marker has been found. We describe a similar group of 12 patients from two different Jewish ethnic origins in whom consanguinity is prominent. These patients have neuroimaging features and magnetic resonance spectroscopy findings indicating that there i...
The nucleotide sequence of a Streptococcus mutans serA gene that encodes D-3-phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase has been determined. The gene consisted of 1308-bp nucleotides coding for a 436-amino-acid polypeptide (48,546 Da). The deduced amino acid sequence showed a 66% identity with SerA from Bacillus subtilis and possessed specific residues (G-R-P-N-V-G) in the coenzyme-binding domain, alpha B helix. Recombinant streptococcal SerA was expressed using pMAL-c2 expression vector and purified by amylose resin affinity chromatography and DEAE-Sephacel column chromatography. This SerA enzyme catalyzed detectable reduction of alpha-ketoglutarate to 2-hydroxyglutaric acid. These findings indicate that the novel streptococcal phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase, SerA, is a member of a D-isomer-specific family of 2-hydroxyacid dehydrogenases.
INTRODUCTION: Mutation in isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 (IDH1) are found in up to 80% of low-grade glioma and secondary glioblastoma. The 2-hydroxyglutaric acid (2HG) specifically produced by mutant IDH1 would be a target to detect IDH1 mutant glioma. Therefore, reliable measurements of 2HG with in vivo MR spectroscopy (MRS) are of clinical interest to develop a noninvasive detection of IDH mutant glioma. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Metabolic profiling including 2HG of tumor targets was assessed by in vivo MRS preoperatively and analyzed with LC-model post-processing. Stereotactic navigation-guided sampling was performed exactly of the corresponding area to the preoperative MRS sampling. Ex vivo 2HG of the samples was quantified by Gas Chromatography Mass spectrometer (GC/MS) and compared with 2HG detected by in vivo MRS. The diagnosis of IDH1 mutant gliomas was confirmed by the immunohistochemical staining and the DNA sequence. RESULTS: Of the 40 patients enrolled in this study, 16(40%) had histologically verified IDH1 mutation. 2HG was exactly measurable by MRS at higher concentration than 1.5mM in 8 of 16 IDH mutated cases (Sensitivity 57% and specificity 92%). Although there were no significantly differences in metabolites of the TCA cycle between IDH1 mutant and wild cases, glutamate and glutamine were significantly lower in the IDH1 mutant group. Additional measurement of glutamate reduced false-negative results to predictive IDH1 mutation. Sensitivity improved to 69% and specificity to 100% (AUC 0.89). CONCLUSIONS: A change of the glutamine metabolism is inferred with IDH1 mutation. Measurement of glutamate may support the potential clinical use of 2HG using MRS as a predictor for IDH1 mutation in glioma because of limiting ability to measure 2HG directly with preoperative MRS.
L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L2HGA) is an autosomal recessive neurometabolic disorder characterized essentially by the presence of elevated levels of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid (LGA) in plasma, cerebrospinal fluid and urine. L2HGA is caused by a deficiency in the L2-Hydroxyglutaric dehydrogenase (L2HGDH) enzyme involved in the oxidation of LGA to the alpha 2-ketoglutarate. LGA has been proposed as an endo- and exogenous cytotoxic organic acid that induces free radical formation and generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS). In this report, we analyzed 14 L2HGA patients belonging to six unrelated consanguineous families the south of Tunisia. The patients were diagnosed with L2HGA disease confirmed on the presence of high level of LGA in urine. We analyzed the L2HGDH gene in all probands and identified the same c.241A>G homozygous mutation, which was previously reported in Tunisia. We also used intragenic single nucleotide length polymorphisms (SNPs) and two extragenic microsatellites flanking the L2HGDH gene to confirm the founder effect of c.241A>G mutation in the 14 studied cases. In addition, we carried out the measurement of the oxidative stress parameters in the plasma of L2HGA patients which revealed a significant increase in the malondialdehyde levels (MDA), a biomarker of lipid peroxydation, and the reduced glutathione (GSH). A diminution of the antioxidant enzyme activities including superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), was also observed.
Chiral 2-hydroxycarboxylic acids are compounds that have been linked to particular diseases and are putative biomarkers with some diagnostic potential. The importance of identifying whether a particular enantiomer is related to certain diseases has been encouraged recently. However, in many cases it has not yet been elucidated whether there are stereochemical implications with respect to these biomarkers and whether their enantioselective analysis provides new insights and diagnostic potential. In this study 13 disease-related chiral 2-hydrocarboxylic acids were studied for their chiral separation by high-performance liquid chromatography on three cinchona alkaloid-derived chiral stationary phases. From a subgroup of eight 2-hydroxymonocarboxylic acids, baseline resolution could be achieved and inversion of elution order by exchanging tert-butylcarbamoyl quinidine chiral stationary phase (Chiralpak QD-AX) for the corresponding quinine analogue (Chiralpak QN-AX) is shown for seven of them. Furthermore, conditions for chiral separation of the 2-hydroxydicarboxylic acids, citramalic acid, 2-isopropylmalic acid, and 2-hydroxyadipic acid are reported and compared to the previous reported conditions for 2-hydroxyglutaric acid and malic acid.
Subsequent evidence has emerged suggesting that mutant IDH1 and IDH2 are not simply inactive enzymes, but instead possess novel enzymatic activity [16, 19, 20] . Dang et al. demonstrated that mutant, but not wild type, IDH1 catalyses the reduction of a-KG to D-2HG while converting NADPH to NADP + . D-2HG accumulates in glioblastoma cells with IDH1 R132H mutations [19] . The role of 2HG in tumourigenesis is unclear, although it may act as an oncometabolite, perhaps competitively inhibiting a-KG-dependent enzymes [21] [22] . One of the rationales for a role of 2HG in tumour formation is derived from the observation of patients suffering from hereditary 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. This is a rare inherited metabolic disorder, caused by homozygous inactivating germline 2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase (2HGDH) mutations, that is weakly associated with brain tumours.
We investigated the presence of hydroxyacid-oxoacid transhydrogenase (HOT), which catalyses the cofactor-independent conversion of gamma-hydroxybutyrate (GHB) to succinic semialdehyde coupled to reduction of 2-ketoglutarate (2-KG) to D-2-hydroxyglutarate (D-2-HG), in human liver extracts employing [2H6]GHB and 2-KG as substrates. We measured incorporation of 2H in D-[2H]2-HG using GC-MS analyses, providing evidence for HOT activity in humans. Kinetic characterization of HOT was undertaken in forward and reverse directions. We employed [2H6]GHB and [2H4]2-KG as cosubstrates in order to develop a HOT activity assay in cultured human fibroblasts derived from patients with D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. HOT activity was quantified in this system by the measurement of D-[2H5]2-HG production. Fibroblasts derived from patients with D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria showed normal HOT activities. Our results provide the first demonstration and preliminary kinetic characterization of HOT activity in human tissues.
Introduction ::: ::: Dog's mercury (Mercurialis perennis L.) is a traditional European medicinal plant considered as a rich source of bioactive natural products. Yet phytochemical data of the plant are scant. ::: ::: ::: ::: Objective ::: ::: This study aimed to identify the hydrophilic phenolic constituents from M. perennis by aqueous and hydroalcoholic extraction. ::: ::: ::: ::: Methodology ::: ::: Extracts of herbal parts were investigated in-depth by HPLC(DAD)-MS/MS and GC/MS analyses. In addition, a novel compound was isolated and fully characterised by 1- and 2D-NMR experiments. ::: ::: ::: ::: Results ::: ::: Several conjugates of caffeic, p-coumaric and ferulic acids together with glucaric or 2-hydroxyglutaric acids (depsides) were detected in the aqueous extracts from aerial plant parts by use of LC-MS/MS techniques as well UV-spectral data. By implementation of preparative chromatography on polyamide pretreated with formic acid followed by vacuum liquid chromatography on reversed-phase C18-silica, one of the predominant depsides was isolated as a pure compound. The NMR spectra (1H and 13C NMR) together with 2D-hetereonuclear multiple bond correlation NMR experiments (gHMBC and gHSQC) and chiral GC investigation, allowed identification of this compound as (−)-(E)-caffeoyl-2-(R)-oxoglutarate. This structure was additionally supported by GC/MS data after silylation and methylation reactions. The hydroalcoholic extract from aerial parts was separated by solvent partition between ethyl acetate and n-butanol. The latter fraction (n-butanol) yielded a mixture of mono- and oligo-glycosides of kaempferol and quercetin, all of them being assigned by LC-MS/MS. ::: ::: ::: ::: Conclusions ::: ::: The present investigation constitutes the first comprehensive report on the hydrophilic constituents of the rarely studied plant Mercurialis and thus completes the phytochemical knowledge on M. perennis. Copyright © 2011 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Abstract d - and l -2-Hydroxyglutaric acid ( d - and l -2-HG, respectively) are metabolites related to some diseases (2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, cancer), which make their identification and analysis crucially important for diagnostic purposes. Chiral stationary phases (CSP) based on tert -butylcarbamoyl-quinine and −quinidine (Chiralpak QN-AX and QD-AX), and the corresponding zwitterionic derivatives (Chiralpak ZWIX(+) and Chiralpak ZWIX(−)) were employed in a weak anion-exchange mechanism to perform the enantiomer separation of d - and l -2-HG without derivatization. QD-AX CSP showed the most promising separation and therefore optimization of eluent, additives, and temperature, required for the baseline separation of solutes was carried out. Depending on experimental conditions resolution values ranged up to 2.0 with run times d - and l -2-HG was possible by using the pseudo-enantiomeric QN-AX CSP.
The Krebs cycle is of fundamental importance for the generation of the energetic and molecular needs of both prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells. Both enantiomers of metabolite 2-hydroxyglutarate are directly linked to this pivotal biochemical pathway and are found elevated not only in several cancers, but also in different variants of the neurometabolic disease 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. Recently we showed that cancer-associated IDH2 germline mutations cause one variant of 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. Complementary to these findings, we now report recessive mutations in SLC25A1, the mitochondrial citrate carrier, in 12 out of 12 individuals with combined D-2- and L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. Impaired mitochondrial citrate efflux, demonstrated by stable isotope labeling experiments and the absence of SLC25A1 in fibroblasts harboring certain mutations, suggest that SLC25A1 deficiency is pathogenic. Our results identify defects in SLC25A1 as a cause of combined D-2- and L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria.
The Krebs cycle is of fundamental importance for the generation of the energetic and molecular needs of both prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells. Both enantiomers of metabolite 2-hydroxyglutarate are directly linked to this pivotal biochemical pathway and are found elevated not only in several cancers, but also in different variants of the neurometabolic disease 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. Recently we showed that cancer-associated IDH2 germline mutations cause one variant of 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. Complementary to these findings, we now report recessive mutations in SLC25A1, the mitochondrial citrate carrier, in 12 out of 12 individuals with combined D-2-and L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. Impaired mitochondrial citrate efflux, demonstrated by stable isotope labeling experiments and the absence of SLC25A1 in fibroblasts harboring certain mutations, suggest that SLC25A1 deficiency is pathogenic. Our results identify defects in SLC25A1 as a cause of combined D-2-and L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. cause of combined D,L-2-HGA could therefore not only improve our knowledge of the pathophysiology of this neurometabolic disorder, but also provide further insight into its role in cancer. We performed whole-exome sequencing to identify the genetic basis of combined D,L-2-HGA in DNA of three affected individuals and the unaffected parents of one of them (subject 1). A total of 13 affected individuals
The mitochondrial citrate carrier, Slc25a1, (or CIC) belongs to a family of ion transporters whose activity has been linked to several pathologic conditions including cancer, aging, and developmental disorders [7] . The human Slc25a1 gene maps to chromosome 22.q11.2 and microdeletions of this region give raise to a group of survivable disorders known as Velo-cardio-facial and DiGeorge syndromes [8] . Various Slc25a1 mutations, spanning throughout the coding region, have also been reported in combined D2-/L2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, characterized by the pathological accumulation of these aberrant metabolites [9] [10] [11] [12] [13] . Moreover, mutations of a member of the citrate transporter family in fruit fly, INDY, promote longevity, suggesting that the citrate transport pathway controls life-span [14] . Finally, we and others have shown that Slc25a1 plays an important role in the metabolic rewiring of tumor cells, in chemotherapy resistance and as a mediator of inflammatory signals [15] [16] [17] [18] [19] .
L-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a rare inborn error of metabolism, marked by a large and persistent increase of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid in urine, blood and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). We present clinical, biochemical and neuroradiological findings of seven Italian patients aged 4–19 years presenting at different stages of the disease. The disorder was characterized by a progressive neurological syndrome with cerebellar and pyramidal signs, mental deterioration, epilepsy and subcortical leukoencephalopathy on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). We observed a good correlation between the severity of the disease and the extent of lesions on MRI. We report the result of the first positive prenatal diagnosis.
Isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH) is an enzyme that catalyzes the oxidative decarboxylation of isocitrate, producing α-ketoglutarate (α-KG), NADPH / NADH and CO 2 . Humans have 3 distinct IDH subtypes. IDH1 and IDH2 are homodimeric enzymes that employ NADP + as a cofactor and localize to the cytoplasm and peroxisomes (IDH1) and mitochondria (IDH2), respectively [3] . IDH3 is a heterotetrameric enzyme which localizes to the mitochondria and utilizes NAD + as a cofactor. Mutations in IDH were recently described in several tumor types including glioma [4] [5] [6] , acute myeloid leukemia (AML) [7] [8] [9] and as well as thyroid [10] , breast adenocarcinoma [11] colorectal and prostate carcinomas, and B cell lymphoma [12] . Notably, IDH mutations have also been found in numerous cartilaginous neoplasms, including 71% of conventional chondrosarcomas and 57% of dedifferentiated chondrosarcomas, as well as enchondromas, sporadic central cartilaginous tumors, and periosteal chondromas [1, 3, 13, 14] . Mutations result in a single arginine (R) residue substitution in IDH1 R132 and in IDH2 R172, as well as an occasional mutation of IDH2 R140 in myeloid malignancies [15] [16] [17] [18] [19] . These mutations occur in a single allele, leading to the inability of enzyme to convert isocitrate into -KG and instead, reduction of α-KG into an oncometabolite, the (D)-enantiomer of 2-hydroxyglutarate (D-2HG) [16] (Fig 1) . 2HG is normally present at low levels in cells, readily interconverted by 2HG dehydrogenase to -KG [20] [21] [22] [23] [24] . It was reported that patients with the inherited metabolic disorder 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria disease caused by 2HG dehydrogenase deficiency accumulate 2HG and have an elevated risk of developing malignant brain tumors [25] . Similarly, dramatically elevated levels of D-2HG have been found in IDH-mutated gliomas [16] , cartilage tumors, AML [17] and breast adenocarcinoma [11, 18] . All of the evidence indicates excess D-2HG accumulation produced by mutated IDH contributes to the formation and malignant progression of tumors though the mechanism remains unclear. Currently, it is believed that 2HG, structurally similar to α-KG, competitively inhibits α-KG-dependent dioxygenases such as TET methyl cytosine hydroxylases and histone lysine demethylases (KDM) that regulate the methylation state of DNA and histone, respectively, and control gene expression epigenetically [3, [26] [27] [28] [29] [30] [31] [32] . The induced hypermethylated phenotype has been reported in leukemias, gliomas and cartilaginous tumors [14, 26, 27, [32] [33] [34] . It is also thought that 2HG may stabilize HIF1α by competitively inhibiting α-KG-dependent prolyl hydroxylases that facilitate the proteasomal degradation of HIF1α. This activates HIF1α signaling pathways, promoting angiogenesis and tumorigenesis [3, 31, [35] [36] [37] .
It is known that LPS are responsible for some of the characteristic signs of disease in infections due to Gram-negative bacteria. The composition analysis of Tenacibaculum maritimum LPS revealed an O-chain composed of a disaccharide that contained an unusual linkage ([R]-2-hydroxyglutaric acid residue), which seems to be unique for this bacterium (Vinagradov et al. 2003). It has been suggested that this Ochain can contribute to the development of biofilms by the bacterium in the fish tissues (Vinagradov et al. 2003).
Recent studies of oncometabolites in human brain tumors have demonstrated the usefulness of considering low molecular weight metabolites. Notable examples are 2-hydroxyglutaric acid (2-HG) [22] and N-acetyl-aspartic acid (NAA) [18] . When the negative mode lipid profiles and additional sources of chemical information were used together, via data fusion, improved differentiation of cancer from normal brain parenchyma (i.e., grey and white matter) was obtained [18] .
Abstract D -2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria is an inborn error of metabolism first described in 1980. To date, more than 40 patients have been diagnosed with this disease. To identify the metabolic precursor of D -2-hydroxyglutarate ( D -2-HG), cultured human lymphoblasts from two patients with D -2-HG aciduria were grown in culture medium supplemented with [U-13C6]glucose or [2H5]glutamate. Mass isotopomer distribution measurements of D -2-HG, 2-ketoglutarate (2-KG) and citrate were performed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. The mass isotopomer distributions in D -2-HG, 2-KG and citrate, following [U-13C6]glucose and [2H5]glutamate incubations, revealed that 2-KG interconverts rapidly to D -2-HG and that D -2-HG is formed within the mitochondria.
We report four patients who presented with a severe form of metaphyseal chondromatosis in association with D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (D-2-HGA). All patients showed splaying columns of irregular ossification defects with bulbous metaphyses of the long tubular bones, as well as remarkable involvement of the short tubular and flat bones. The vertebral bodies revealed platyspondyly with irregular, stippled endplates. D-2-HGA has been described as a neurometabolic disorder manifesting a broad range of impairment in mental and motor development. Although hydroxyglutaric acid was excreted in high amounts in the urine of all four patients described herein, no significant neurologic abnormalities were evident. This unusual combination of characteristic skeletal and metabolic abnormalities has rarely been reported. Thus, our report will facilitate the recognition of this distinctive entity, and we suggest that a urine organic acid screening be obtained in patients who present with generalized enchondromatosis.
d-2-hydroxyglutaric (D-2-HGA) and l-2-hydroxyglutaric (L-2-HGA) acidurias are rare neurometabolic disorders biochemically characterized by increased levels of d-2-hydroxyglutaric acid (D-2-HG) and l-2-hydroxyglutaric acid (L-2-HG) respectively, in biological fluids and tissues. These diseases are caused by mutations in the specific enzymes involved in the metabolic pathways of these organic acids. In the present work, we first investigated whether D-2-HG and L-2-HGA could provoke DNA oxidative damage in blood leukocytes and whether l-carnitine (LC) could prevent the in vitro DNA damage induced by these organic acids. It was verified that 50μM of D-2-HG and 30μM of L-2-HG significantly induced DNA damage that was prevented by 30 and 150μM of LC. We also evaluated oxidative stress parameters in urine of L-2-HGA patients and observed a significant increase of oxidized guanine species and di-tyrosine, biomarkers of oxidative DNA and protein damage, respectively. In contrast, no significant changes of urinary isoprostanes and reactive nitrogen species levels were observed in these patients. Taken together, our data indicate the involvement of oxidative damage, especially on DNA, in patients affected by these diseases and the protective effect of LC.
Abstract Succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase (SSADH) deficiency and d -2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria ( d -2-HGA) are rare inborn errors of metabolism primarily revealed by urinary organic acid screening. Three patients with proven SSADH deficiency excreted, in addition to GHB considerable amounts of d -2-HG. We examined whether these patients suffered from two inborn errors of metabolism by measuring d -2-HG concentrations in the culture medium of cells from these patients. In addition, mutation analysis of the d -2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase gene was performed. Normal concentrations of d -2-HG were measured in the culture media of fibroblasts or lymphoblasts derived from the three patients. In one patient, we found a heterozygous likely pathogenic mutation in the d -2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase gene. These combined results argue against the hypothesis that the patients are affected with “primary” d -2-HGA in combination with their SSADH deficiency. Moderately increased levels of d -2-HG were also found in urine, plasma, and cerebrospinal fluid samples derived from 12 other patients with SSADH deficiency, revealing that d -2-HG is a common metabolite in this disease. The increase of d -2-HG in SSADH deficiency can be explained by the action of hydroxyacid-oxoacid transhydrogenase, a reversible enzyme that oxidases GHB in the presence of 2-ketoglutarate yielding SSA and d -2-HG.
Although most oncometabolite research is focused on D-2HG, the L-2-hydroxyglutarate (L-2HG) enantiomer is an even more potent 2OGD inhibitor, and high L-2HG levels are associated with renal cell carcinomas, gliomas, and a neurometabolic disorder known as L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (10-12). Unlike D-2HG, however, L-2HG has no known role in metabolism and eukaryotes lack an enzyme dedicated to L-2HG synthesis. Instead, L-2HG is considered an aberrant metabolite produced by the nonspecific activity of enzymes such as malate dehydrogenase, lactate dehydrogenase A (LDHA), and lactate dehydrogenase C (12-18). Consistent with these observations, L-2HG accumulation in cancer cells does not result from ectopic synthesis; rather, it stems from decreased expression of the enzyme L-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase (L2HGDH), which is solely responsible for L-2HG degradation (10, 19) . Therefore, most studies suggest that neither healthy tissues nor cancer cells appear capable of regulating L-2HG production. This model of L-2HG synthesis, however, has been challenged by a recent study of T lymphocytes,
Oncometabolites are small molecules that promote tumor formation and growth. L-2-hydroxyglutarate (L-2HG) is a putative oncometabolite that is associated with gliomas and renal cell carcinomas, as well as a severe neurometabolic disorder known as L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. However, despite that L-2HG is commonly considered a metabolic waste product, this compound was recently discovered to control immune cell fate, thereby demonstrating that it has endogenous functions in healthy animal cells. Here, we find that the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, also synthesizes high concentrations of L-2HG during normal larval growth. Our discovery establishes the fly as a genetic model for studying this putative oncometabolite in healthy animal tissues.
Organic acidemias Introduction Propionic acidemia Methylmalonic acidemia Methylmalonic aciduria and homocystinuria (cobalamin C and C disease) Multiple carboxylase deficiency/holocarboxylase synthetase deficiency Multiple carboxylase deficiency/biotinidase deficiency Isovaleric acidemia Glutaric aciduria (type I) 3-Methylcrotonyl CoA carboxylase deficiency/3-methylcrotonyl glycinuria D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria 4-hydroxybutyric aciduria Mitochondrial acetoacetyl-CoA thiolase (3-oxothiolase) deficiency Disorders of amino acid metabolism Alkaptonuria Phenylketonuria Hyphenylalaninemia and defective metabolism of tetrahydrobiopterin Biogenetic amines Homocystinuria Maple syrup urine disease (branched-chain oxoaciduria) Oculocutaneous tyrosinemia/tyrosine aminotransferase deficiency Hepatorenal tyrosinemia/fumarylacetoacetate hydrolase deficiency Nonketotic hyperglycinemia Hyperammonemia and disorders of the urea cycle Introduction to hyperammonemia and disorders of the urea cycle Ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency Carbamyl phosphate synthetase deficiency Citrullinemia Argininosuccinic aciduria Argininemia Hyperornithinemia, hyperammonemia, homocitrullinuria syndrome Lysinuric protein intolerance Glutamine synthetase deficiency Disorders of fatty acid oxidation Introduction to disorders of fatty acid oxidation Carnitine transporter deficiency Carnitine: acylcarnitine translocase deficiency Carnitine palmitoyl transferase I deficiency Carnitine palmitoyl transferase II deficiency, lethal neonatal Carnitine palmitoyl transferase II deficiency, late onset Medium chain acyl CoA dehydrogenase deficiency Very long-chain acyl CoA dehydrogenase deficiency Long chain L-3-hydroxyacyl CoA dehydrogenase - (trifunctional protein deficiency) Short-chain acyl CoA dehydrogenase deficiency 3-HydroxyacylCoA dehydrogenase (short-chain 3-hydroxyacylCoA dehydrogenase) deficiency Short/branched chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (2-methylbutyrylCoA dehydrogenase) deficiency Multiple acyl CoA dehydrogenase deficiency/Glutaric aciduria type II/Ethylmalonic-adipic aciduria 3-Hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl CoA lyase deficiency The lactic acidemias and mitochondrial disease Introduction to the lactic acidemias Pyruvate carboxylase deficiency Fructose-1,6-diphosphatase deficiency Deficiency of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex Lactic acidemia and defective activity of pyruvate, 2-oxoglutarate and branched chain oxoacid dehydrogenases Mitochondrial encephalomyelopathy, lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes Myoclonic epilepsy and ragged red fiber disease Neurodegeneration, ataxia and retinitis pigmentosa Kearns-Sayre syndrome Pearson syndrome Mitochondrial DNA depletion syndromes: mitochondrial DNA polymerase deficiency Disorders of carbohydrate metabolism Galactosemia Glycogen storage diseases: introduction Glycogenosis type 1 - Von Gierke disease Glycogenosis type II/Pomple/lysosomal -glucosidase deficiency Glycogenosis type III/Amylo-1,6-glucosidase (debrancher) deficiency Peroxisomal disorders Adrenoleukodystrophy Neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy/disorders of peroxisomal biogenesis Disorders of purine metabolism Lesch-Nyhan disease and variants Adenine phosphoribosyl-transferase deficiency Phosphoribosylpyrophosphate synthetase and its abnormalities Adenosine deaminase deficiency Adenylsuccinate lyase deficiency Orotic aciduria Disorders of transport and mineral metabolism Cystinuria Cystinosis Hartnup disease Histiniduria Menkes disease Mucopolysaccharidoses Introduction to mucopolysaccharidoses Hurler disease/mucopolysaccharidosis type IH-L-iduronidase deficiency Scheie and Hurler-Scheie diseases/mucopolysaccharidosis IS and HIS/a-iduronidase deficiency Hunter disease/mucopolysaccharidosis type II/iduronate sulfatase deficiency Sanfilippo disease/mucopolysaccharidosis type III Morquio syndrome/mucopolysaccharidosis type IV/keratan sulfaturia Maroteaux-Lamy disease/mucopolysaccharidosis VI/N-acetylgalactosamine-4-sulfatase deficiency Sly disease/AY-glucuronidase deficiency/mucopolysaccharidosis VII Mucolipidoses I-cell disease/mucolipidosis II Mucolipidosis III/pseudo-Hurler polydystrophy /N-acetyl-glucosaminyl-1-phosphotransferase deficiency Disorders of cholesterol and neutral lipid metabolism Familial hypercholesterolemia Mevalonic aciduria Lipoprotein lipase deficiency/type I hyperlipoproteinemia Lipid storage disorders Fabry disease GM1 gangliosidosis/AY-galactosidase deficiency Tay-Sachs disease/hexosaminidase A deficiency Sandhoff disease/GM2 gangliosidosis/deficiency of hexosaminidase A and B/hex-B subunit deficiency GM2 activator deficiency/GM2 gangliosidosis - deficiency of the activator protein Gaucher disease Niemann-Pick disease Niemann-Pick type C disease/cholesterol-processing abnormality Krabbe disease/galactosylceramide lipidosis/globoid cell leukodystrophy Wolman disease/cholesteryl ester storage disease Fucosidosis a-Mannosidosis Galactosialidosis Metachromatic leukodystrophy Multiple sulfatase deficiency Miscellaneous Congenital disorder of glycosylation, type la Other forms of congenital disorders of glycosylation a1-Antitrypsin deficiency Canavan disease/aspartoacylase deficiency Ethylmalonic encephalopathy Disorders of creatine synthesis or transport
BACKGROUND ::: L-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L-2-HGA) is a rare organic aciduria neurometabolic disease that is inherited as an autosomal recessive mode and have a variety of symptoms, such as psychomotor developmental retardation, epilepsy, cerebral symptoms as well as increased concentrations of 2-hydroxyglutarate (2-HG) in the plasma, urine and cerebrospinal fluid. The causative gene of L-2-HGA is L-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase gene (L2HGDH), which consists of 10 exons. ::: ::: ::: CASE PRESENTATION ::: We presented a rare patient primary diagnosis of L-2-HGA based on the clinical symptoms, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) results. Mutational analysis of the L2HGDH gene was performed on the L-2-HGA patient and his parents, which revealed two novel mutations in exon 3: a homozygous missense mutation (c.407 A > G, p.K136R) in both the maternal and paternal allele, and a heterozygous frameshift mutation [c.407 A > G, c.408 del G], (p.K136SfsX3) in the paternal allele. The mutation site p.K136R of the protein was located in the pocket of the FAD/NAD(P)-binding domain and predicted to be pathogenic. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: We predicted the homozygous missense mutation (c.407 A > G, p.K136R) was considered as the pathogenic mutation of the patient. The study highlights the power of pedigree analysis in order to interpret novel mutations.
l-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (l-2-HGA) is a metabolic disease with an autosomal recessive mode of inheritance. It was first reported in 1980. Patients with this disease have mutations in both alleles of the L2HDGH gene. The clinical presentation of individuals with L-2-HGA is somewhat variable, but affected individuals typically suffer from progressive neurodegeneration. Analysis of urinary organic acids reveals an increased signal of 2-hydroxyglutaric acid, mainly as the l-enantiomer. L-2-HGA is known to occur in individuals of various ethnic backgrounds, but up to now mutation analysis has been mainly focused on patients of Turkish and Portuguese origin. This led us to confirm the diagnosis on the DNA level and undertake the corresponding mutation analysis in individuals of diverse ethnicity previously diagnosed with l-2-HGA on the basis of urinary metabolites and clinical/neuroimaging data. In 24 individuals from 17 families with diverse ethnic and geographic origins, 13 different mutations were found, 10 of which have not been reported previously. At least eight of the patients were compound heterozygotes. The identification of two mutations (c.751C > T and c.905C > T in exon 7) in patients with different origins supports the view that they occurred independently in different families. In contrast, the mutation c.788C > T was detected in all six Venezuelan patients originating from the same Caribbean island of Margarita, but not in other patients, thus rendering a founder effect likely. None of the mutations was found in the control population, indicating that they are most probably causative. Mutation analysis may improve the quality of diagnosis and prenatal diagnosis of L-2-HGA.
Employing lymphoblasts derived from two non related patients with L-2-HG aciduria, we examined the origin of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid (L-2-HG) through incubation with [(13)C6]glucose and [(2)H5]glutamic acid. Formation of labelled 2-ketoglutaric acid (2-KG), citric acid and L-2-HG was determined by GC-MS. The quantitative and qualitative isotopomer pattern following incubation with [(13)C6]glucose was identical for all end-products. Incubations with [(2)H5]glutamic acid as precursor revealed the formation of identical isotopomers for 2-KG and L-2-HG. Our data indicate that 2-KG is the metabolic precursor of L-2-HG, adding to previous studies which revealed that 2-KG is the metabolic precursor of D-2-HG. These data suggest that 2-KG has a pathophysiological role in combined D/L-2-HG aciduria.
Background: L-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L-2-HGA) is a rare organic aciduria neurometabolic disease that is inherited as an autosomal recessive mode and have a variety of symptoms, such as psychomotor developmental retardation, epilepsy, cerebral symptoms as well as increased concentrations of 2-hydroxyglutarate (2-HG) in the plasma, urine and cerebrospinal fluid. The causative gene of L-2-HGA is L-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase gene (L2HGDH), which consists of 10 exons. Case presentation: We presented a rare patient primary diagnosis of L-2-HGA based on the clinical symptoms, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) results. Mutational analysis of the L2HGDH gene was performed on the L-2-HGA patient and his parents, which revealed two novel mutations in exon 3: a homozygous missense mutation (c.407 A > G, p.K136R) in both the maternal and paternal allele, and a heterozygous frameshift mutation [c.407 A > G, c.408 del G], (p.K136SfsX3) in the paternal allele. The mutation site p.K136R of the protein was located in the pocket of the FAD/NAD(P)-binding domain and predicted to be pathogenic. Conclusion: We predicted the homozygous missense mutation (c.407 A > G, p.K136R) was considered as the pathogenic mutation of the patient. The study highlights the power of pedigree analysis in order to interpret novel mutations.
The MRI findings in 7 patients with L-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L-2-OHG aciduria) are described and compared with previous neuroradiological reports and the only three published pathological cases. Signal abnormalities involved peripheral subcortical white matter, basal ganglia and dentate nuclei. Cerebellar atrophy was present. Although similar appearances may be seen in other metabolic disorders, the distribution of signal abnormalities in L-2-OHG aciduria is highly characteristic and may suggest the correct diagnosis.
The mitochondrial citrate transport protein (CTP), encoded by SLC25A1, accommodates bidirectional trafficking of citrate between the mitochondria and cytosol, supporting lipid biosynthesis and redox homeostasis. Genetic CTP deficiency causes a fatal neurodevelopmental syndrome associated with the accumulation of L- and D-2-hydroxyglutaric acid, and elevated CTP expression is associated with poor prognosis in several types of cancer, emphasizing the importance of this transporter in multiple human pathologies. Here we describe the metabolic consequences of CTP deficiency in cancer cells. As expected from the phenotype of CTP-deficient humans, somatic CTP loss in cancer cells induces broad dysregulation of mitochondrial metabolism, resulting in accumulation of lactate and of the L- and D- enantiomers of 2-hydroxyglutarate (2HG) and depletion of TCA cycle intermediates. It also eliminates mitochondrial import of citrate from the cytosol. To quantify the impact of CTP deficiency on metabolic flux, cells were cultured with a set of 13C-glucose and 13C-glutamine tracers with resulting data integrated by metabolic flux analysis (MFA). CTP-deficient cells displayed a major restructuring of central carbon metabolism, including suppression of pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) and induction of glucose-dependent anaplerosis through pyruvate carboxylase (PC). We also observed an unusual lipogenic pathway in which carbon from glucose supplies mitochondrial production of alpha-ketoglutarate (AKG), which is then trafficked to the cytosol and used to supply reductive carboxylation by isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 (IDH1). The resulting citrate is cleaved to produce lipogenic acetyl-CoA, thereby completing a novel pathway of glucose-dependent reductive carboxylation. In CTP deficient cells, IDH1 inhibition suppresses lipogenesis from either glucose or glutamine, implicating IDH1 as a required component of fatty acid synthesis in states of CTP deficiency.
A recent update of the hallmarks of cancer includes metabolism with deregulating cellular energetics. Activating mutations in isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH) metabolic enzymes leading to the abnormal accumulation of 2-hydroxyglutaric acid (2-HGA) have been described in hematologic malignancies and solid tumours. The diagnostic value of 2-HGA levels in blood to identify IDH mutations and its prognostic significance have been reported. We developed a liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry method allowing a rapid, accurate and precise simultaneous quantification of both L and D enantiomers of 2-HGA in blood samples from acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) patients, suitable for clinical applications. The method was also develop for preclinical applications from cellular and tissues samples. Deuterated (R,S)-2-hydroxyglutaric acid, disodium salt was used as internal standard and added to samples before a solid phase extraction on Phenomenex STRATA™-XL-A (200mg-3mL) 33μm cartridges. A derivatization step with (+)- o,o'-diacetyl-l-tartaric anhydride permitted to separate the two resulting diastereoisomers without chiral stationary phase, on a C18 column combined to a Xevo TQ-MS Waters mass spectrometer with an electrospray ionization (ESI) source. This method allows standard curves to be linear over the range 0.34-135.04μM with r(2) values>0.999 and low matrix effects (<11.7%). This method, which was validated according to current EMA guidelines, is accurate between-run (<3.1%) and within-run (<7.9%) and precise between-run (<5.3CV%) and within-run (<6.2CV%), and is suitable for clinical and preclinical applications.
Abstract High accumulation of D-2-hydroxyglutaric acid (D-2-HG) is the biochemical hallmark of patients affected by the inherited neurometabolic disorder D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (D-2-HGA). Clinically, patients present neurological symptoms and basal ganglia injury whose pathophysiology is poorly understood. We investigated the ex vivo effects of intrastriatal administration of D-2-HG on important parameters of redox status in the striatum of weaning rats. D-2-HG in vivo administration increased malondialdehyde (MDA) and carbonyl formation (lipid and protein oxidative damage, respectively), as well as the production of reactive nitrogen species (RNS). D-2-HG also compromised the antioxidant defenses by decreasing reduced glutathione (GSH) concentrations, as well as the activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione peroxidase (GPx). Increased amounts of oxidized glutathione (GSSG) with no significant alteration of total glutathione (tGS) were also found. Furthermore, D-2-HG-induced lipid oxidation and reduction of GSH concentrations and GPx activity were prevented by the N -methyl- d -aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist dizocilpine maleate (MK-801) and the nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor N ω -nitro- l -arginine methyl ester ( l -NAME), suggesting the participation of NMDA receptors and nitric oxide derivatives in these effects. Creatine also impeded D-2-HG-elicited MDA increase, but did not change the D-2-HG-induced diminution of GSH and of the activities of SOD and GPx. We also found that DCFH oxidation and H 2 O 2 production were not altered by D-2-HG, making unlikely an important role for reactive oxygen species (ROS) and reinforcing the participation of RNS in the oxidative damage and the reduction of antioxidant defenses provoked by this organic acid. Vacuolization, lymphocytic infiltrates and macrophages indicating brain damage were also observed in the striatum of rats injected with D-2-HG. The present data provide in vivo solid evidence that D-2-HG disrupts redox homeostasis and causes histological alterations in the rat striatum probably mediated by NMDA overstimulation and RNS production. It is therefore presumed that disturbance of redox status may contribute at least in part to the basal ganglia alterations characteristic of patients affected by D-2-HGA.
l-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria (l-2-OHGA) is a rare autosomal recessive neurometabolic disease linked to chromosome 14q21.1 and is caused by mutations in the gene that most likely encodes l-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase, which normally catalyses l-2-hydroxyglutarate to α-ketoglutarate. It is characterized by progressive mental deterioration, pyramidal and cerebellar syndromes, macrocephaly and marked polycystic white-matter degeneration mainly involving frontal lobes. Brain tumours of variable nature have frequently been observed in l-2-OHGA. We report a patient affected by this disease who at the age of 20 years developed a bone tumour involving the right frontal region of the calvaria. He had first presented at the age of 10 years with psychomotor delay, clumsy gait and moderate mental impairment. Examination showed macrocephaly, cerebellar ataxia and quadripyramidal syndrome. Brain MRI showed low signal intensities on T1-weighted images and high signal intensities on T2-weighted images in cerebral subcortical white matter. Serum and urinary amino acid assay was normal. Urinary 2-hydroxyglutaric acid was 1418 mmol/mol creatinine (controls <25). Analysis of the l-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase gene revealed a homozygous mutation in exon 2 (A320G). At the age of 20 years, an osteoma of the right frontal bone was diagnosed. This finding reinforces the opinion concerning the association of l-2-OHGA and tumorigenesis and prompted us to verify the possible responsibility of some overproduced substances in this disease for the development of tumours and to look for any correlation between the type of mutation in the l-2-OHGA gene and the tumorigenic potential observed in some patients affected by this disease.
L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L-2-HGA), a neurometabolic disorder caused by mutations in the L-2 hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase (L-2-HGDH) gene, presents with psychomotor retardation, cerebellar ataxia, extrapyramidal symptoms, macrocephaly and seizures. Characteristic magnetic resonance imaging findings include subcortical cerebral white matter abnormalities with T2 hyperintensities of the dentate nucleus, globus pallidus, putamen and caudate nucleus. The diagnosis can be confirmed by elevated urinary L-2 hydroxyglutaric acid and mutational analysis of the L-2-HGDH gene. We report two siblings with dystonia diagnosed by classical neuroimaging findings with elevated urinary 2 hydroxyglutaric acid. Riboflavin therapy has shown promising results in a subset of cases, thus highlighting the importance of making the diagnosis in these patients.
Chiral short chain aliphatic hydrocarboxylic acids (HCAs) are common compounds being part of different biological processes. In order to control and understand these processes is of pivotal importance to determine the identity of the involved enantiomer or their enantiomeric ratio. In this study the capacity of quinine- and quinidine-derived chiral stationary phases to perform the enantioseparation of eight chiral HCAs (tartaric acid, isocitric acid, malic acid, glyceric acid, 2-hydroxyglutaric acid, 2-hydroxybutyric acid, lactic acid and 3-hydroxybutyric acid) was evaluated. MS-compatible conditions consisting of ACN/MeOH mixtures as eluents with formic acid, acetic acid and/or their ammonium salts as additives, temperatures between 10 and 25°C (except for -20°C for 3-hydroxybutyric acid) and a flow rate of 1.00mL/min yielded full baseline resolution for all studied HCAs. Elution order for the HCA enantiomers was determined revealing different behaviors between the studied compounds.
In this paper we studied the degradation of L-2-hydroxyglutarate in tissues from rat and man in order to try and find the underlying basis for the accumulation of this metabolite in L-2-hydroxyglutaric acidemia patients. The results show that L-2-hydroxyglutarate is not degraded by an oxidase but via a dehydrogenase which was found to be present in liver only. This newly identified enzyme activity was characterized kinetically, although the nature of the reaction product remains to be identified
The organic acidurias d-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (D-2-HGA), l-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L-2-HGA), and combined d,l-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (D,L-2-HGA) cause neurological impairment at young age. Accumulation of d-2-hydroxyglutarate (D-2-HG) and/or l-2-hydroxyglutarate (L-2-HG) in body fluids are the biochemical hallmarks of these disorders. The current review describes the knowledge gathered on 2-hydroxyglutaric acidurias (2-HGA), since the description of the first patients in 1980. We report on the clinical, genetic, enzymatic and metabolic characterization of D-2-HGA type I, D-2-HGA type II, L-2-HGA and D,L-2-HGA, whereas for D-2-HGA type I and type II novel clinical information is presented which was derived from questionnaires.
Interleukin-10 is an immunosuppressive cytokine involved in the regulation of gastrointestinal mucosal immunity toward intestinal microbiota. Interleukin-10-deficient (IL10(-/-)) mice develop Crohn's disease-like colitis unless raised in germ-free conditions. Previous gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) metabolomic analysis revealed urinary metabolite differences between IL10(-/-) and wildtype C57BL/6 mice. To determine which of these differences were specifically associated with intestinal inflammation arising from IL10-deficiency, urine samples from IL10(-/-) and wildtype mice, housed in either conventional or specific pathogen-free conditions, were subjected to GC-MS metabolomic analysis. Fifteen metabolite differences, including fucose, xanthurenic acid, and 5-aminovaleric acid, were associated with intestinal inflammation. Elevated urinary levels of xanthurenic acid in IL10(-/-) mice were attributed to increased production of kynurenine metabolites that may induce T-cell tolerance toward intestinal microbiota. Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis confirmed that plasma levels of kynurenine and 3-hydroxykynurenine were elevated in IL10(-/-) mice. Eleven metabolite differences, including glutaric acid, 2-hydroxyglutaric acid, and 2-hydroxyadipic acid, were unaffected by the severity of inflammation. These metabolite differences may be associated with residual genes from the embryonic stem cells of the 129P2 mouse strain that were used to create the IL10(-/-) mouse, or may indicate novel functions of IL10 unrelated to inflammation.
Defects of lysine metabolism are rare, but hyperlysinemia is a concomitant of many inborn errors of metabolism, including urea cycle abnormalities, pyruvate carboxylase deficiency and L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. We have hypothesized that mitochondrial lysine degradation is regulated by bioavailability of 2-oxoglutarate in the same compartment, and our studies in physiologic fluid derived from patients with the above described disorders supports our hypothsis. Our data further suggest that patients with isolated L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria may have a defect in 2-ketoglutarate metabolism. The current report summarizes our studies.
Abstract The organic acidurias D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (D-2-HGA), L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L-2-HGA), and combined D,L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (D,L-2-HGA) cause neurological impairment at young age. Accumulation of D-2-hydroxyglutarate (D-2-HG) and/or L-2-hydroxyglutarate (L-2-HG) in body fluids are the biochemical hallmarks of these disorders. The current review describes the knowledge gathered on 2-hydroxyglutaric acidurias (2-HGA), since the description of the first patients in 1980. We report on the clinical, genetic, enzymatic and metabolic characterization of D-2-HGA type I, D-2-HGA type II, L-2-HGA and D,L-2-HGA, whereas for D-2-HGA type I and type II novel clinical information is presented which was derived from questionnaires.
A 5-year-old boy, excreting large amounts of 2-hydroxyglutaric acid in the urine (3.3–7.6 mmol/l), is described. The patient presented with psychomotor retardation and dystrophy. His skeletal age was delayed. The EEG was not well differentiated; it resembled that observed in 2-year-old children. There was a severe anaemia, which reacted well to iron supplements. The 2-hydroxyglutaric acid was found to have thel-configuration, as analysed by capillary gas chromatography of theO-acetylated di-(-)-2-butyl ester derivative. The relation ofl-2-hydroxyglutarate excretion to known metabolic pathways is discussed.
A patient with protein-losing gastroenteropathy and egg allergy has been shown to have a previously unrecognized organic aciduria,d-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. The observations made are consistent with an inherited metabolic disorder in the catabolism of 5-aminolaevulinate possibly due to deficient activity of a specificd-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase.
An infant girl was demonstrated to have D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, the fifth case described and the first with muscle biopsy of this rare organic aciduria that differs clinically and genetically from the more common L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. Her clinical features included mildly dysmorphic facies, developmental delay, generalized hypotonia, myoclonic seizures, cortical blindness, and dilated cardiomyopathy requiring treatment. Muscle biopsy demonstrated only excessive glycogen histochemically, but ultrastructural examination revealed subsarcolemmal cylindrical spirals and normal mitochondria. Because of the metabolism of D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, we regard valproic acid as contraindicated in the treatment of epilepsy in this disease.
Routine screening for organic acids revealed increased and isolated urinary excretion of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid in 8 mentally retarded patients from five unrelated families, including three pairs of siblings. L-2-Hydroxyglutaric acid concentration was also found to be increased in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and to a lesser extent in plasma. The only other biochemical abnormality was an increased concentration of lysine, both in plasma and in CSF. No organic acid abnormality was found on screening of asymptomatic family members. Patients were of either sex, and became symptomatic during childhood, with moderate to severe mental deficiency in all and definite cerebellar dysfunction in 7. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed an identical abnormal pattern with subcortical leukoencephalopathy, cerebellar atrophy, and signal changes in the putamina and dentate nuclei, in all patients. No specific biochemical function or catabolic pathway involving L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid is known in mammals, including humans. Preliminary loading and dietary studies failed to reveal the origin of the compound. The elevated CSF/plasma ratio suggests that it is in part generated within the central nervous system. This report describes a novel inherited neurometabolic disease, probably autosomal recessive, with distinct clinical, biochemical, and neuroimaging features.
Abstract l -2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria ( l -2-HGA) is an autosomal recessive neurometabolic disorder characterized by psychomotor delay, ataxia, macrocephaly and typical neuroradiological findings of subcortical leucoencephalopathy. Recently, the disease causing gene has been discovered ( L2HGDH ) encoding l -2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase. We present a 3-year-old boy with l -2-HGA, who demonstrated macrocephaly, noted already in utero with ultrasound. Cranial MRI demonstrated diffuse subcortical encephalopathy with increased signal of the subcortical white matter. Subsequent metabolic screening revealed increased levels of l -2-HGA, and genomic DNA analysis demonstrated two missense mutations in l -2-HGDG. Patient’s further motor development was mildly impaired, whilst his speech development was profoundly impaired (first words at the age of 2 years). Since the age of 2 years he started demonstrating autistic repetitive behaviors and movements, increasing aloofness to his environment and limitations in the variety of spontaneous activity (CARS score: 44/60-severe autism). Autism has not so far been described in l -2-HGA and may be considered as an additional feature of the phenotypic spectrum.
UNLABELLED ::: L-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L2HGA) is an extremely rare hereditary neurometabolic disease, characterized by increased L-2-hydroxyglutarate (L2HG) levels in the brain and biological fluids. 24-h urine 2HG level remains the biochemical hallmark for the diagnosis of L2HGA, whereas it is unknown the feasibility to measure in vivo the intracerebral levels of 2HG by using magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS). ::: ::: ::: PATIENTS AND METHODS ::: We used at 3T H(1)-MRS Single-Voxel (SV) PRESS sequences tailored to detect 2HG, in three adult patients with the diagnosis of L2HGA and in healthy controls. We also used mass spectrometric methods to measure the levels of 2HG in plasma and serum. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: 2HG peak was detected and quantified in the white matter (WM) of the three L2HGA patients, while it was absent in controls. All patients showed also high levels of 2HG in plasma and serum. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: Brain 2HG detected by MRS may play a role in the diagnosis and follow-up of L2HGA, besides circulating plasma/serum 2HG levels by mass spectrometric assays, although studies on a large cohort of patients are required to confirm these observations.
l-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria (l-2-HGA) is characterized by progressive deterioration of central nervous system function including epilepsy and macrocephaly in 50% of cases, and elevated levels of l-2-hydroxyglutaric acid in urine, blood and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Nuclear magnetic resonance imaging shows distinct abnormalities. We report the identification of a gene for l-2-HGA aciduria (MIM 236792) using homozygosity mapping. Nine homozygous mutations including three missense mutations, two nonsense mutations, two splice site mutations and two deletions were identified in the gene C14orf160, localized on chromosome 14q22.1, in 21 patients from one non-consanguineous and 14 consanguineous Turkish families. We propose to name the gene duranin. Duranin encodes a putative mitochondrial protein with homology to FAD-dependent oxidoreductases. The functional role of this enzyme in intermediary metabolism in humans remains to be established
L-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria (LHGA) is a rare autosomal recessively inherited neurodegenerative disorder. It is characterized by psychomotor retardation, progressive ataxia and typical magnetic resonance imaging findings, and presents in early infancy. On the other hand, medulloblastomas are very common solid tumors of childhood and infancy. We present a 3-year-old boy with LHGA who developed a medulloblastoma during the course of the disease. There has been no previous report of the coexistence of medulloblastomas with LHGA. Central nervous system tumors are encountered in children with other metabolic neurodegenerative disorders. The aim of this paper is to focus on the difficulties in the diagnosis and treatment of an intracranial tumor in a child already neurologically impaired due to metabolic neurodegenerative disease.
Under thiamine-deficient, aerobic culture conditions, Yarrowia lipolytica was found to produce D-(+)-2-hydroxyglutaric acid extracellularly in amounts of about 5 mg per ml of the culture filtrate, together with pyruvic and 2-ketoglutaric acids, from glucose or glycerol in a chemically defined medium. Under similar conditions, however, only a small amount of the hydroxy acid was produced from odd- or even-numbered n-alkanes.
PURPOSE ::: To describe the pattern of magnetic resonance (MR) imaging abnormalities in l-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L2HGA) and to evaluate the correlation between imaging abnormalities and disease duration. ::: ::: ::: MATERIALS AND METHODS ::: MR images in 56 patients (30 male, 26 female; mean age +/- standard deviation, 11.9 years +/- 8.5) with genetically confirmed L2HGA were retrospectively reviewed, with institutional review board approval and waiver of informed consent. At least one complete series of transverse T2-weighted images was available for all patients. The images were evaluated by using a previously established scoring list. The correlation between MR imaging abnormalities and disease duration was assessed (Mann-Whitney or Kruskal-Wallis test). ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: The cerebral white matter (WM) abnormalities preferentially affected the frontal and subcortical regions. The abnormal subcortical WM often had a mildly swollen appearance (37 patients). Initially, the WM abnormalities were at least partially multifocal (32 patients). In patients with longer disease duration, the WM abnormalities became more confluent and spread centripetally, but the periventricular rim remained relatively spared (41 patients). The mean disease duration in patients with WM atrophy (14.8 years) was significantly longer (P = .001) than that in patients without atrophy (6.7 years). Bilateral involvement of the globus pallidus (55 patients), caudate nucleus (56 patients), and putamen (56 patients) was seen at all stages. The cerebellar WM was never affected. The dentate nucleus was involved bilaterally in 55 of 56 patients. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: L2HGA has a distinct highly characteristic pattern of MR imaging abnormalities: a combination of predominantly subcortical cerebral WM abnormalities and abnormalities of the dentate nucleus, globus pallidus, putamen, and caudate nucleus. With increasing disease duration, WM abnormalities and basal ganglia signal intensity abnormalities become more diffuse and cerebral WM atrophy ensues.
Abstract Determination of the absolute configuration of some metabolites in body fluids is important for the diagnosis of some inborn errors of metabolism. Presently available methods of such determinations are tedious and usually require highly specialized instrumentation. In this work, an alternative method, based on high-resolution nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy in the presence of the chiral lanthanide shift reagent as an auxiliary additive, has been proposed (NMR/LSR). The method involves the lineshape analysis of a chosen multiplet of the one-dimensional 1 H NMR spectrum or application of the two-dimensional 1 H- 13 C correlation spectroscopy (HSQC). In order to confirm the resonance assignments and to boost the signal–noise ratio, the addition of an amount of racemic analyte to the urine sample is recommended. The entire procedure is simple in application and demands minimal or no preprocessing of urine samples. The effectiveness of the method has been confirmed by finding the expected forms of 2-hydroxyglutaric acid and 5-oxoproline in the urine samples of an independently diagnosed patient with 2- d -hydroxyglutaric aciduria and 5- l -oxoprolinuria, respectively.
Although the role of IDH1 mutation in tumorigenesis has not been determined, changes in enzymatic function that result from IDH1 mutation likely contribute to tumor formation. Decreased NADPH production from loss of IDH1 WT function coupled with increased 2-HG levels could lead to oxidative stress (11, 12) . Secondly, 2-HG interferes with the electron transport chain and could alter mitochondrial physiology and drive cells toward aerobic glycolysis (13) . Due to structural similarity between 2-HG and α-KG, 2-HG could also interfere with the function of enzymes that utilize α-KG (e.g., histone demethylases). Lastly, 2-HG is produced in inborn errors of metabolism (L-2-or D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria) where the enzyme that metabolizes 2-HG (L-or D-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase) is nonfunctional (14, 15) . Individuals with L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria have been documented to develop gliomas (16) , but not those with D-2-hydroxyglutaratic aciduria (the enantiomer produced by mutant IDH1/2).
Procedures for enantiomeric recognition of 2-hydroxyglutaric acid and 5-oxoproline -markers of metabolic diseases, and ofvigabatrin - an antiepileptic drug, suitable for urine samples, have been elaborated. They rely upon derivatization of the metabolites with a chiral reagent; this is made without separation of these compounds from a biological sample. The diastereotopic metabolite derivatives are then distinguished using 13 C or 19 F NMR spectroscopy. This procedure is not so simple as one proposed previously, but, as opposite to the latter method, it seems to be unfailing and still not too complicated.
L-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L-2-HGA) is a hereditary neurometabolic disorder reported in human beings and dogs. An 11-month-old Staffordshire bull terrier was suspected to have the disease, on the basis of clinical signs and magnetic resonance imaging findings. L-2-HGA was confirmed by urinary organic analysis and DNA testing and the dog was humanely destroyed. Post-mortem findings consisted only of microscopical lesions in the brain, characterized by marked spongiform changes and predominantly affecting the grey matter of the cerebral cortex, thalamus, cerebellum and brainstem. The spongiform changes were characterized by well-demarcated, clear vacuoles located at perineuronal and perivascular sites. Immunohistochemical and ultrastructural examination confirmed that the affected cells were astrocytes. (c) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
We report three cases of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acidemia and three cases of Canavan disease. The L-2-hydroxyglutaric acidemia cases are the first biochemically proven Turkish cases. Magnetic resonance imaging findings in the cases and similarities between the two diseases are emphasized. Both diseases are characterized by predominant subcortical white-matter involvement and dentate nuclei lesions with variable basal ganglia involvement. Canavan disease differs from L-2-hydroxyglutaric acidemia by the presence of typical brainstem involvement. (J Child Neurol 1996;11:373-377).
L-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L-2-HGA) is a rare type of organic acidemia that has characteristic neurological manifestations including macrocephaly, developmental delay, epilepsy and cerebellar ataxia. Worldwide, few hundred cases of L-2-HGA are reported till date. The authors report the first three cases of L-2-HGA from two Indian families. Pertinent clinical aspects of this rare neurometabolic disorder namely, lack of acute exacerbations, and predisposition to brain tumors, are highlighted. In the present series, all cases had infantile onset of symptoms in the form of global developmental delay, seizures and cerebellar ataxia without extra-pyramidal signs or macrocephaly. One child presented as acute febrile encephalopathy which has not been described as a presenting feature.
A protocol is described for the comprehensive screening of acutely ill neonates and infants for inherited metabolic diseases, with particular reference to the organic acidurias. A group of simple initial tests provide positive pointers to metabolic disorders, leading to comprehensive screening tests for the aminoacidopathies and organic acidurias. Specimen chromatograms of urinary organic acids in the normal neonate, infant, and child, obtained using the methods described, are given and compared with that from the urine of a child with previously unreported 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. The place of the scheme in the management of inherited metabolic disease in the perinatal period and its relationship to other screening programmes are discussed. It is estimated that use of the protocol would allow the detection of about one-half of the known inborn errors of metabolism, including the aminoacidopathies, the organic acidurias, the hyperammonaemias, and several disorders of carbohydrate metabolism, many of which present acutely in the neonate and infant.
BACKGROUND ::: Agenesis of corpus callosum has been associated with several defects of the mitochondrial respiratory chain and the citric acid cycle. We now report the results of the biochemical and molecular studies of a patient with severe neurodevelopmental disease manifesting by agenesis of corpus callosum and optic nerve hypoplasia. ::: ::: ::: METHODS AND RESULTS ::: A mitochondrial disease was suspected in this patient based on the prominent excretion of 2-hydroxyglutaric acid and Krebs cycle intermediates in urine and the finding of increased reactive oxygen species content and decreased mitochondrial membrane potential in her fibroblasts. Whole exome sequencing disclosed compound heterozygosity for two pathogenic variants in the SLC25A1 gene, encoding the mitochondrial citrate transporter. These variants, G130D and R282H, segregated in the family and were extremely rare in controls. The mutated residues were highly conserved throughout evolution and in silico modeling investigations indicated that the mutations would have a deleterious effect on protein function, affecting either substrate binding to the transporter or its translocation mechanism. These predictions were validated by the observation that a yeast strain harbouring the mutations at equivalent positions in the orthologous protein exhibited a growth defect under stress conditions and by the loss of activity of citrate transport by the mutated proteins reconstituted into liposomes. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: We report for the first time a patient with a mitochondrial citrate carrier deficiency. Our data support a role for citric acid cycle defects in agenesis of corpus callosum as already reported in patients with aconitase or fumarate hydratase deficiency.
BackgroundL-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L2HGA) is a progressive neurometabolic disease of brain caused by mutations of in L-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase (L2HGDH) gene. Cardinal clinical features include cerebellar ataxia, epilepsy, neurodevelopmental delay, intellectual disability, and other clinical neurological deficits.Case presentationWe describe an index case of the family presented with generalised tonic-clonic seizure, developmental delay, intellectual disability, and ataxia. Initially, the differential diagnosis was difficult to be established and a SNP genome wide scan identified the candidate region on chromosome 14q22.1. DNA sequencing showed a novel homozygous mutation in the candidate gene L2HGDH (NM_024884.2: c.178G > A; p.Gly60Arg). The mutation p.Gly60Arg lies in the highly conserved FAD/NAD(P)-binding domain of this mitochondrial enzyme, predicted to disturb enzymatic function.ConclusionsThe combination of homozygosity mapping and DNA sequencing identified a novel mutation in Pakistani family with variable clinical features. This is second report of a mutation in L2HGDH gene from Pakistan and the largest family with L2HGA reported to date.
Background: L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (
L-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a rare organic aciduria associated with a neurological presentation. The first patient was described in 1980 by Duran et al. In 1988 Jaeken et al published a brief report on a second patient. Ten cases are known (Barth et al 1992); their clinical and neuroimaging similarities allow definition of a characteristic phenotype for a novel neurometabolic disease. The diagnosis depends upon the urinary organic acid profile. Routine gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) screening for organic acids reveals a large peak of 2-hydroxyglutaric acid (2-OH-glu)
We report an infant with intermittent urinary excretion of D-2-hydroxyglutaric (D-2-OHG) acid who died at the age of 10 months from cardiogenic shock due to cardiomyopathy. High urinary concentrations of D-2-OHG and succinic acid, as well as increased levels of lactic acid were detected on three different occasions, whereas a normal urinary profile of organic acids was found on one occasion. The clinical findings of our patient consisted of generalized hypotonia, irritability, developmental delay, generalized tonic seizures, lethargy, cardiomyopathy, and respiratory distress. Cerebral MRI revealed bilateral lesions in the substantia nigra, the periaqueductal area, the medial part of the thalamus, the hypothalamus, the caudate nucleus, putamen and globus pallidus. This pattern is suggestive of a mitochondriopathy. However, respiratory chain enzyme activities were normal in fibroblasts. Exogenous supplementation of D-2-OHG acid strongly inhibited cytochrome-c oxidase activity in fibroblasts from the patient and from normal controls in vitro. The results suggest that our patient has an unusual form of D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (D-2-OHGA), different from the patients published so far, and that the increase of lactic acid and some citric acid cycle intermediates encountered in some patients with D-2-OHGA may be due to a functional defect of the respiratory chain caused by D-2-OHG acid.
The biochemical defect in L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria is still unknown, but the mutated gene has recently been identified on chromosome 14q22. Transfection of human embryonic kidney (HEK) cells with a cDNA encoding the product of the human gene led to a>15-fold increase in L-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase activity. The overexpressed enzyme had similar biochemical characteristics (including sensitivity to FAD and association with membranes) as the rat liver enzyme. Western blot analysis indicated that it is processed through the removal of a N-terminal approximately 4 kDa fragment, in agreement with a mitochondrial localization. Transfection experiments indicated that the mutations (K81E, E176D, Delta-exon9) found in patients with L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria suppressed L-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase activity. Western blot analysis showed that the three mutated proteins were expressed to various degrees in HEK cells, but were abnormally processed. Taken together, these data indicate that L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria is due to a deficiency in L-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase.
Background In recent, various human health disorders including cancer, diabetes, neurodegenerative and metabolic diseases are noticed among human populations. Currently, genetic and proteomic approaches are highly reported to detect metabolic disorders that also include inborn error of metabolisms. These existing detection methods are faced with cost issue and time consuming factors. Therefore, metabolites as biomarkers are one of potential avenues to detect metabolic disorders. Further, exploitation of urine as potential source of metabolite biomarkers, there are limitation in this area of research due to abundance of non-metabolite components such as proteins and nucleic acids. Hence, methods and processes are required to precisely fractionate metabolites from urine of inborn error of metabolism patients and then identified by analytical tools such as LC-HRMS and GC-MS. Methods Sterile filtered urine samples (750 µl) mixed with (250 µl) loading buffer were electrophoresed on VTGE that uses acrylamide gel (acrylamide:bisacrylamide, 30:1) as matrix of 15%. Further, vertical tube gel electrophoresis (VTGE) technique combined with LC-HR-MS to identify metabolites that are known as the biomarkers of metabolic disorders was carried out. Results and Discussion The authors provide evidence on the use of novel VTGE coupled with LC-HRMS to detect metabolites among metabolic disorders. Data suggest the applicability of VTGE coupled with LC-HRMS technique to detect metabolites such as 2-methyluridine, 2-Methylglutaric acid, 2-Methyl citric acid, 2-Hydroxyglutaric acid in case of metabolic disorders. Conclusion This preliminary work is suggested to be extended to large clinical samples to validate application of this method to detect metabolic disorders including inborn error of metabolisms.
Background Mosaic IDH1 mutations are described as the cause of metaphyseal chondromatosis with increased urinary excretion of D-2-hydroxyglutarate (MC-HGA), and mutations in IDH2 as the cause of D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (D-2HGA) type II. Mosaicism for IDH2 mutations has not previously been reported as a cause of D-2HGA. Here we describe three cases: one MC-HGA case with IDH1 mosaic mutations, and two D-2HGA type II cases. In one D-2HGA case we identified mosaicism for an IDH2 mutation as the genetic cause of this disorder; the other D-2HGA case was caused by a heterozygous IDH2 mutation, while the unaffected mother was a mosaic carrier. ::: ::: Methods We performed amplicon deep sequencing using the 454 GS Junior platform, next to Sanger sequencing, to identify and confirm mosaicism of IDH1 or IDH2 mutations in MC-HGA or D-2HGA, respectively. ::: ::: Results and conclusions We identified different mutant allele percentages in DNA samples derived from different tissues (blood vs fibroblasts). Furthermore, we found that mutant allele percentages of IDH1 decreased after more passages had occurred in fibroblast cell cultures. We describe a method for the detection and validation of mosaic mutations in IDH1 and IDH2 , making quantification with laborious cloning techniques obsolete.
Phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase (PGDH, EC 1.1.1.95) catalyzes the NAD+-dependent oxidation of D-3-phosphoglycerate (PG), an intermediate of glycolysis, into 3-phosphohydroxypyruvate (PHP), an intermediate of the serine biosynthetic pathway. The equilibrium of the reaction catalyzed by PGDH is strongly directed towards its substrate, PG. PGDH from Escherichia coli possesses the ability to reduce 2-ketoglutarate (KG) into two isomeric forms of 2-hydroxyglutaric acid (HG). The reductase activity of PGDH is considered “unphysiological”. E. coli PGDH has a very high affinity to NADH (Km = 10 nM) and, after binding NADH, undergoes a conformational change that results in the tight binding of NADH. The order of substrate binding in the reverse reaction is: NADH is the first to bind to the enzyme. Given these findings as well as the known concentrations of substrates in the E. coli pool and the Km’s, we propose that the E-NADH enzyme complex preferably binds KG. It prevents binding of PHP and inhibits the reverse reaction. E. coli PGDH catalyzes two consecutive reactions: E-NADH + KG = E-NAD+ + HG and E-NAD+ + PG = E-NADH + PHP. Oxidation of PG occurs at the expense of KG reduction, resulting in the production of HG, which is a necessary product of the PGDH reaction in E. coli. Over-production of HG has been found in human tumor cells and was thought to be caused by mutant forms of isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH1/2) gained a new ability to reduce KG to HG (D-2-HG). There is contradictory evidence supporting HG production without the mutations in IDH in several tumors and vice versa. A potential role of human PGDH in HG production is discussed. The role of mutant IDH’s may not be in the production of HG but in the consumption of HG produced by other enzymes.
The authors provide evidence on the use of novel VTGE coupled with LC-HRMS to detect metabolites among metabolic disorders. Data suggest the applicability of VTGE coupled with LC-HRMS technique to detect metabolites such as 2-methyluridine, 2-Methylglutaric acid, 2-Methyl citric acid, 2-Hydroxyglutaric acid in case of metabolic disorders.
L-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria is an inborn error of metabolism, which has been recognized in humans since 1980. The metabolic defect responsible for the disease is unknown, but the disorder can be diagnosed in humans by elevations of the organic acid, L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), plasma, and urine of affected patients. The disorder produces a variety of clinical neurological defects in humans including psychomotor retardation, seizures, and ataxia. There have previously been no recognized animal models of the disease. However, 6 Staffordshire Bull Terriers were recently identified with the disorder. The animals presented with a variety of clinical signs, most notably seizures, ataxia, dementia, and tremors. They were all screened for organic acid abnormalities in urine, and CSF and plasma (when available). Levels of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid were elevated in all body fluids evaluated. The clinical, clinicopathologic, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) characteristics associated with L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid in Stafforshire Bull Terriers is reported herein and represents the first veterinary model of this inborn error of metabolism.
The previous chapters of Part III have dealt with the majority of known disorders of organic acid metabolism and with the nature and origins of the abnormal organic aciduria with which they are associated. There are a number of other important disorders, for example pyroglutamic aciduria and d-glyceric aciduria, that do not conveniently fit into the classification of the other diseases, and this chapter provides a suitable place in which to summarize their presentation and characteristics. Other disorders, for example of aromatic amino and organic acid metabolism, are reviewed in great detail elsewhere and fall to some extent outside the scope of this book, except with respect to their abnormal organic acidurias and their study using gas chromatography and mass spectrometry, which are included within the present chapter. Other disorders have not been covered in any detail, either because of their extreme rarity and lack of clarity on their origins, for example 2-hydroxy-n-butyric aciduria associated with methionine malabsorption syndrome [‘oasthouse disease’ (Smith and Strang, 1958)] and with the 2-year-old patient described by Hooft et al. (1965), who was mentally subnormal with white hair and blue eyes, and who excreted between 70 mg of 2-hydroxybutyrate (24 h)−1 and undetectable levels and who responded clinically and biochemically to a low-methionine diet. Other disorders, for example d-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, a possible disorder of 5-aminolaevulinate metabolism (Chalmers et al., 1980a), and d-lactic aciduria (Duran et al., 1977; McKusick 24 545), which may be associated with bacterial metabolism in the small bowel (Oh et al., 1979) have not been given detailed consideration for similar reasons.
L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L-2-HGA) is a rare inherited autosomal recessive neurometabolic disorder caused by mutations in the gene encoding L-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase. An assay to evaluate L-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase (L-2-HGDH) activity in fibroblast, lymphoblast and/or lymphocyte lysates has hitherto been unavailable. We developed an L-2-HGDH enzyme assay in cell lysates based on the conversion of stable-isotope-labelled L-2-hydroxyglutarate to 2-ketoglutarate, which is converted into L-glutamate in situ. The formation of stable isotope labelled L-glutamate is therefore a direct measure of L-2-HGDH activity, and this product is detected by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. A deficiency of L-2-HGDH activity was detected in cell lysates from 15 out of 15 L-2-HGA patients. Therefore, this specific assay confirmed the diagnosis unambiguously affirming the relationship between molecular and biochemical observations. Residual activity was detected in cells derived from one L-2-HGA patient. The L-2-HGDH assay will be valuable for examining in vitro riboflavin/FAD therapy to rescue L-2-HGDH activity.
Background Primary membranous glomerulonephritis (MGN) is a major cause of nephrotic syndrome in adults. Its diagnosis is based on invasive biopsy, and the current traditional serum or urinary biomarkers, such as the anti-phospholipase A2 receptor, are not adequately sensitive or specific. Aim of the study Our purpose is to identify a sensitive and specific noninvasive panel of biomarkers for the diagnosis of MGN by using metabolomic techniques and to explore the pathogenic pathways that are involved in disease development. Methods The urine metabolome of 66 MGN patients, 31 healthy controls, and 72 disease controls, were analyzed using nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) and gas chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (GC-MS/MS). Advanced multivariate statistical analyses were performed for the construction of diagnostic models and biomarker discovery. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis was used to suggest the most sensitive and specific diagnostic panel. Results The NMR-based diagnostic model showed allantoic acid and deoxyuridine as the most overrepresented and underrepresented biomarkers, respectively differentiating MGN from both control groups. The GC-MS/MS-based diagnostic model showed oxalic acid as the most overrepresented biomarker and 2-hydroxyglutaric acid lactone as the only underrepresented specific biomarker. A panel of a combination of the most accurate predictors of NMR and GC-MS/MS was composed of α-hydroxybutyric acid, 3,4-Dihydroxymandelic acid, 5α-cholestanone, 2-hydroxyglutaric acid lactone, nicotinamide, epicoprostanol, and palmitic acid. Nine impaired pathways were identified in MGN, such as pyrimidine metabolism and NAD salvage. Conclusions This comprehensive metabolomic study of MGN indicates a panel of promising biomarkers, which is complementary to current traditional biomarkers, and needs to be validated in a larger cohort.
Isocitrate dehydrogenases (IDHs) catalyse the oxidative decarboxylation of isocitrate to α-ketoglutarate (α-KG), producing NAD (P) H from NAD (P) + [16] . Eukaryotes have both NAD + -and NADP + -dependent IDHs. IDH3 is NAD + -dependent and localised to the mitochondrial matrix and it plays a central role in aerobic energy production in the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle. IDH1 and IDH2 are both NADP + -dependent and localised to the mitochondrial matrix [6, 9, 15, 18] . A recent mutational analysis of human cancers revealed predominant somatic mutations in human IDH2 (hIDH2) in gliomas [22] . Almost all the hIDH2 mutations were identified at Arg residue 172 (R172). A metabolite profiling analysis showed that hIDH2 mutants with mutations at R172 had reduced α-KG and increased 2-hydroxyglutarate (2-HG) production while converting NADPH to NADP + [8] . 2-HG is known to accumulate in the inherited metabolic disorder 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria [19] . The elevated levels of 2-HG in the brain increased reactive oxygen species, leading to a variety of downstream sequelae [21] .
Combined D,L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (DL-2HGA; OMIM #615182) is a rare neurometabolic disorder clinically characterized by muscular hypotonia, severe neurodevelopmental dysfunction, and intractable seizures associated with respiratory distress. Biochemically, DL-2HGA patients excrete increased amounts of D- and L-2-hydroxyglutarate (D2HG and L2HG, respectively), with predominance of D2HG, and α-ketoglutarate, and show a decrease in urinary citrate. Impaired function of the mitochondrial citrate carrier (CIC) due to pathogenic mutations within the SLC25A1 gene has been identified as the underlying molecular cause of the disease. CIC mediates efflux of the mitochondrial tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle intermediates citrate and isocitrate in exchange for cytosolic malate. Thus, depletion of cytosolic citrate as well as accumulation of citrate inside mitochondria have been considered to play a role in the pathophysiology of DL-2HGA. Here, we report for the first time on a patient with a genetically confirmed diagnosis of DL-2HGA and treatment with either malate or citrate. During malate treatment, urinary malate concentration increased, but beyond that, neither biochemical nor clinical alterations were observed. In contrast, treatment with citrate led to an increased urinary excretion of TCA cycle intermediates malate and succinate, and by trend to an increased concentration of urinary citrate. Furthermore, excretion of D2HG and L2HG was reduced during citrate treatment. Clinically, the patient showed stabilization with regard to frequency and severity of seizures. Treating DL-2HGA with citrate should be considered in other DL-2HGA patients, and its effects should be studied systematically.
This paper establishes the pathway for the biosynthesis of methanopterin in Methanosarcina thermophila to proceed by the following series of reactions. First, 5-phospho-alpha-D-ribosyl diphosphate (PRPP) and 4-aminobenzoic acid condense together to produce 4-(beta-D-ribofuranosyl)aminobenzene 5'-phosphate, which then reacts with 6-hydroxymethyl-7,8-H2pterin pyrophosphate to produce 7,8-H2pterin-6-ylmethyl-4-(beta-D-ribofuranosyl)aminobenz ene 5'-phosphate (3'). Compound 3' is then reduced to 7,8-H2pterin-6-ylmethyl-l-(4-aminophenyl)-1-deoxy-D-ribitol 5'-phosphate (4') in a reaction stimulated by the addition of FMN or factor F(420). Dephosphorylation of compound 4' leads to 7,8-H2pterin-6-ylmethyl-1-(4-aminophenyl)-1-deoxy-D-ribitol (5'). Compound 5' then condenses with another molecule of PRPP to form 7,8-H2pterin-6-ylmethyl-1-(4-aminophenyl)-1-deoxy-5-[1-alpha -D- ribofuranosyl 5-phosphate]-D-ribitol (9'). Compound 9', in the presence of ATP, then condenses with (S)-2-hydroxyglutaric acid to form demethylated H2methanopterin, a known precursor to methanopterin. The occurrence of this pathway was confirmed by (a) the chemical and/or biochemical synthesis of most of the proposed intermediates, (b) the detection of these intermediates in cell-free extracts, and (c) by the measurement of their conversion to demethylated methanopterin and/or other intermediates in the pathway.
L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L-2 HGA) is a rare, neurodegenerative, slowly progressing and autosomal recessively inherited metabolic disorder. The disease progresses with mental retardation, behavioral disorder, ataxia, extrapyramidal signs and epileptic seizures. Diagnosis is made by detection of increased levels of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid in urine, plasma or cerebrospinal fluid. In this report, we presented a 13 year old male patient diagnosed with L-2 HGA and had seizures, intellectual disability, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) symptoms and failure in school performance. Here we discussed this rare disease with ADHD symptoms and the response to atomoxetine treatment.
Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder comorbidity in an adolescent diagnosed with L-2 hydroxyglutaric aciduria and response to atomoxetine treatment: a case report L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L-2 HGA) is a rare, neurodegenerative, slowly progressing and autosomal recessively inherited metabolic disorder. The disease progresses with mental retardation, behavioral disorder, ataxia, extrapyramidal signs and epileptic seizures. Diagnosis is made by detection of increased levels of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid in urine, plasma or cerebrospinal fluid. In this report, we presented a 13 year old male patient diagnosed with L-2 HGA and had seizures, intellectual disability, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) symptoms and failure in school performance. Here we discussed this rare disease with ADHD symptoms and the response to atomoxetine treatment.
Keywords: Atomoxetine, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria ÖZET L-2-hidroksi glutarik asidüri tanılı bir ergende dikkat eksikliği hiperaktivite bozukluğu eş tanısı ve atomoksetin tedavisine yanıt: Bir olgu sunumu L-2-hidroksi glutarik asidüri (L-2 HGA) nadir görülen, yavaş ilerleyen ve otozomal resesif kalıtılan nörodejeneratif metabolik bir hastalıktır. Hastalık mental retardasyon, davranış bozukluğu, ataksi, ekstrapiramidal bulgular ve epileptik nöbetlerle seyreder. Tanı; idrar, plazma ya da serebrospinal sıvıda L-2-hidroksiglutarik asid yüksekliği ile konulur. Bu yazıda nöbetler, mental retardasyon, dikkat eksikliği hiperaktivite bozukluğu (DEHB) belirtileri, okul başarısında sorunlarla belirti veren ve L-2 HGA tanısı konulan 13 yaşında bir erkek hastadan bahsedilmiş olup nadir görülen bu hastalığa eşlik eden DEHB semptomlarına atomoksetin tedavi yanıtı tartışılmıştır.
l-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria (l-2-HGA) is a neurometabolic disease characterized by the presence of elevated levels of 2-hydroxyglutaric acid in the plasma, cerebrospinal fluid and urine. Clinical features in this inherited condition consist of mental deterioration, ataxia and motor deficits with pyramidal and extrapyramidal symptoms and signs. l-2-HGA is caused by mutations in the l-2-HGDH gene which most probably encodes for a l-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase, a putative mitochondrial protein converting l-2-hydroxyglutarate to alphaketoglutarate. Here, we report a pathogenic nonsense mutation in the l-2-HGDH gene found for the first time in an Italian patient affected by l-2-HGA, reinforcing the previously described phenotype of this rare metabolic disease and confirming the data indicating that mutations in the l-2-HGDH gene cause l-2-HGA.
Lactic acid and 2-hydroxyglutaric acid are chiral metabolites that have two distinct d- and l-enantiomers with distinct biochemical properties. Perturbations of a single enantiomeric form have been found to be closely related to certain diseases. Therefore, the ability to differentiate the d and l enantiomers is important for these disease studies. Herein, we describe a method for the separation and determination of lactic acid and 2-hydroxyglutaric acid enantiomers by chiral derivatization (with l-menthol and acetyl chloride) combined with gas chromatography and mass spectrometry. The two pairs of above-mentioned enantiomers exhibited linear calibration curves with a correlation coefficient (R2 ) exceeding 0.99. The measured data were accurate in the acceptable recovery range of 88.17-102.30% with inter- and intraday precisions (relative standard deviations) in the range of 4.23-17.26%. The limits of detection for d-lactic acid, l-lactic acid, d-2-hydroxyglutaric acid, and l-2-hydroxyglutaric acid were 0.13, 0.11, 1.12, and 1.16 μM, respectively. This method was successfully applied to analyze mouse plasma. The d-lactic acid levels in type 2 diabetes mellitus mouse plasma were observed to be significantly higher (P < 0.05, t-test) than those of normal mice, suggesting that d-lactic acid may serve as an indicator for type 2 diabetes mellitus.
D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a rare autosomal recessive organic aciduria with variable clinical expression. The biochemical defect is still unknown, and genetic heterogeneity has been suggested. Here, we report on facial anomalies in two unrelated cases of D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria presenting with epileptic encephalopathy. In a review, we found that minor facial anomalies have been mentioned in three patients. A flat face with a broad nasal bridge and external ear anomalies were present in our patients and in reported cases. We suggest giving consideration to D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria as a cause of minor facial anomalies in epileptic encephalopathy of unknown origin. Am. J. Med. Genet. 86:124–129, 1999. © 1999 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
Examination of tissue sections using desorption electrospray ionization (DESI)-MS revealed phospholipid-derived signals that differ between gray matter, white matter, gliomas, meningiomas, and pituitary tumors, allowing their ready discrimination by multivariate statistics. A set of lower mass signals, some corresponding to oncometabolites, including 2-hydroxyglutaric acid and N-acetyl-aspartic acid, was also observed in the DESI mass spectra, and these data further assisted in discrimination between brain parenchyma and gliomas. The combined information from the lipid and metabolite MS profiles recorded by DESI-MS and explored using multivariate statistics allowed successful differentiation of gray matter (n = 223), white matter (n = 66), gliomas (n = 158), meningiomas (n = 111), and pituitary tumors (n = 154) from 58 patients. A linear discriminant model used to distinguish brain parenchyma and gliomas yielded an overall sensitivity of 97.4% and a specificity of 98.5%. Furthermore, a discriminant model was created for tumor types (i.e., glioma, meningioma, and pituitary), which were discriminated with an overall sensitivity of 99.4% and a specificity of 99.7%. Unsupervised multivariate statistics were used to explore the chemical differences between anatomical regions of brain parenchyma and secondary infiltration. Infiltration of gliomas into normal tissue can be detected by DESI-MS. One hurdle to implementation of DESI-MS intraoperatively is the need for tissue freezing and sectioning, which we address by analyzing smeared biopsy tissue. Tissue smears are shown to give the same chemical information as tissue sections, eliminating the need for sectioning before MS analysis. These results lay the foundation for implementation of intraoperative DESI-MS evaluation of tissue smears for rapid diagnosis.
Leukodystrophies are genetically determined metabolic diseases, in which the underlying biochemical abnormality interferes with the normal build-up and/or maintenance of myelin, which leads to hypo- (or arrested) myelination, or dysmyelination with resultant demyelination. Although conventional magnetic resonance imaging has significantly contributed to recent progress in the diagnostic work-up of these diseases, diffusion-weighted imaging has the potential to further improve our understanding of underlying pathological processes and their dynamics through the assessment of normal and abnormal diffusion properties of cerebral white matter. Evaluation of conventional diffusion-weighted and ADC map images allows the detection of major diffusion abnormalities and the identification of various edema types, of which the so-called myelin edema is particularly relevant to leukodystrophies. Depending on the nature of histopathological changes, stage and progression gradient of diseases, various diffusion-weighted imaging patterns may be seen in leukodystrophies. Absent or low-grade myelin edema is found in mucopolysaccharidoses, GM gangliosidoses, Zellweger disease, adrenomyeloneuropathy, L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, non-ketotic hyperglycinemia, classical phenylketonuria, Van der Knaap disease and the vanishing white matter, medium grade myelin edema in metachromatic leukodystrophy, X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy and HMG coenzyme lyase deficiency and high grade edema in Krabbe disease, Canavan disease, hyperhomocystinemias, maple syrup urine disease and leukodystrophy with brainstem and spinal cord involvement and high lactate.
In the present study, we have characterized in detail the MS(2) and MS(3) fragmentation behaviors, using electrospray ionization (ESI) in the negative ion mode, of previously identified sulfated isoprene secondary organic aerosol compounds, including 2-methyltetrols, 2-methylglyceric acid, 2-methyltetrol mononitrate derivatives, glyoxal and methylglyoxal. A major fragmentation pathway for the deprotonated molecules of the sulfate esters of 2-methyltetrols and 2-methylglyceric acid and of the sulfate derivatives of glyoxal and methylglyoxal is the formation of the bisulfate [HSO(4)](-) anion, while the deprotonated sulfate esters of 2-methyltetrol mononitrate derivatives preferentially fragment through loss of nitric acid. Rational interpretation of MS(2), MS(3) and accurate mass data led to the structural characterization of unknown polar compounds in K-puszta fine aerosol as organosulfate derivatives of photooxidation products of unsaturated fatty acids, i.e. 2-hydroxy-1,4-butanedialdehyde, 4,5- and 2,3-dihydroxypentanoic acids, and 2-hydroxyglutaric acid, and of alpha-pinene, i.e. 3-hydroxyglutaric acid. The deprotonated molecules of the sulfated hydroxyacids, 2-methylglyceric acid, 4,5- and 2,3-dihydroxypentanoic acid, and 2- and 3-hydroxyglutaric acids, showed in addition to the [HSO(4)](-) ion (m/z 97) neutral losses of water, CO(2) and/or SO(3), features that are characteristic of humic-like substances. The polar organosulfates characterized in the present work are of climatic relevance because they may contribute to the hydrophilic properties of fine ambient aerosol. In addition, these compounds probably serve as ambient tracer compounds for the occurrence of secondary organic aerosol formation under acidic conditions.
Examination of tissue sections using desorption electrospray ionization (DESI)-MS revealed phospholipid-derived signals that differ between gray matter, white matter, gliomas, meningiomas, and pituitary tumors, allowing their ready discrimination by multivariate statistics. A set of lower mass signals, some corresponding to oncometabolites, including 2-hydroxyglutaric acid and N-acetylaspartic acid, was also observed in the DESI mass spectra, and these data further assisted in discrimination between brain parenchyma and gliomas. The combined information from the lipid and metabolite MS profiles recorded by DESI-MS and explored using multivariate statistics allowed successful differentiation of gray matter (n = 223), white matter (n = 66), gliomas (n = 158), meningiomas (n = 111), and pituitary tumors (n = 154) from 58 patients. A linear discriminant model used to distinguish brain parenchyma and gliomas yielded an overall sensitivity of 97.4% and a specificity of 98.5%. Furthermore, a discriminant model was created for tumor types (i.e., glioma, meningioma, and pituitary), which were discriminated with an overall sensitivity of 99.4% and a specificity of 99.7%. Unsupervised multivariate statistics were used to explore the chemical differences between anatomical regions of brain parenchyma and secondary infiltration. Infiltration of gliomas into normal tissue can be detected by DESI-MS. One hurdle to implementation of DESI-MS intraoperatively is the need for tissue freezing and sectioning, which we address by analyzing smeared biopsy tissue. Tissue smears are shown to give the same chemical information as tissue sections, eliminating the need for sectioning before MS analysis. These results lay the foundation for implementation of intraoperative DESI-MS evaluation of tissue smears for rapid diagnosis.
Two female Yorkshire terrier puppies were presented with generalized tonic-clonic seizures and ataxia. MRI revealed bilaterally symmetrical, diffuse regions of gray matter hyperintensity on T2-weighted and fluid-attenuated inversion recovery sequences. Urinary organic acids were quantified by gas chromatography-mass spectroscopy and were consistent with a diagnosis of L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L2HGA). The L2HGDH gene encodes for the enzyme L-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase, which helps break down L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid. In both puppies described in this report, a homozygous mutation at the translation initiation codon of the homolog canine L2HGDH gene was detected (c.1A>G; p.Met1?), confirming the diagnosis of L2HGA at the DNA level. Canine L2HGA is caused by more than one mutation of L2HGDH, as reported in humans.
We present clinical, biochemical and cranial magnetic resonance imaging data of six pediatric patients with L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. All the children have the same ethic origin and lived in the northern area of Portugal. Our findings reinforce the described phenotype of this rare metabolic disease with mental deficiency, severe cerebellar dysfunction, mild extrapyramidal and pyramidal symptoms, progressive macrocephaly and seizures. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed subcortical leukoencephalopathy, cerebellar atrophy and signal changes in the putamina and dentate nuclei. These were similar to those of the previous reports in all patients. The urinary excretion of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid was variably increased in all patients. The other persistent biochemical abnormality was hyperlysinemia. We have found a strong correlation between the severity of the clinical manifestations and the extension of the lesions in the neuroimaging studies. There was no correlation between the clinical findings and the amount of urinary excretion of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid. We report the second case in the literature of a cerebral thalamic tumor in L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria; neuropathological examination of the surgical biopsy demonstrated a diffuse fibrillary astrocytoma.
L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid (LGA) is the biochemical hallmark of L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L-OHGA), an inherited neurometabolic disorder characterized by progressive neurodegeneration with cerebellar and pyramidal signs, mental deterioration, epilepsy, and subcortical leukoencephalopathy. Because the underlying mechanisms of the neuropathology of this disorder are virtually unknown, in this study we tested the in vitro effect of LGA on various parameters of oxidative stress, namely, chemiluminescence, thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBA-RS), protein carbonyl formation (PCF), total radical-trapping antioxidant potential (TRAP), total antioxidant reactivity (TAR), and the activities of the antioxidant enzymes catalase, glutathione peroxidase, and superoxide dismutase in cerebellum and cerebral cortex of 30-day-old rats. LGA significantly increased chemiluminescence, TBA-RS, and PCF measurements and markedly decreased TAR values in cerebellum, in contrast to TRAP and the activity of the antioxidant enzymes, which were not altered by the acid. Similar but less pronounced effects were provoked by LGA in cerebral cortex. Moreover, the LGA-induced increase of TBA-RS was significantly attenuated by melatonin (N-acetyl-5-methoxytryptamine) and by the combinations of ascorbic acid plus Trolox (soluble alpha-tocopherol) and of superoxide dismutase plus catalase but not by the inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase Nomega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), creatine, or superoxide dismutase or catalase alone in either cerebral structure. The data indicate that LGA provokes oxidation of lipids and proteins and reduces the brain capacity to modulate efficiently the damage associated with an enhanced production of free radicals, possibly by inducing generation of superoxide and hydroxyl radicals, which are trapped by the scavengers used. Thus, in case these findings can be extrapolated to human L-OHGA, it may be presumed that oxidative stress is involved in the pathophysiology of the brain damage observed in this disorder.
L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria should be considered in the differential diagnosis of patients presenting with developmental delay and declining cognitive function. Patients may have an increased sensitivity to minor head trauma, although this has not been reported in the literature in other cases. As part of the diagnostic assessment, patients should have MRI scanning and analysis urine organic acids. Although broadening our understanding of the disease, novel genetic variations may not alter the clinical course.
In humans, mutations in L-2HGDH causes the rare inherited autosomal recessive disease L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, which is characterized by elevated levels of L-2HG (Duran et al. 1980 , Rzem et al. 2004 . Affected individuals develop neurological disorders including mild to moderate psychomotor retardation, cerebellar ataxia, variable macrocephaly, and epilepsy. In this disease, L-2HG also contributes to the formation and malignant progression of brain tumors, probably through inhibition of histone lysine demethylases (Moroni et al. 2004 , Aghili et al. 2009 , Chowdhury et al. 2011 . It is still unclear whether L-2HG has a function in mammalian cells or is simply a metabolic byproduct of mMDH from 2-KG. However, there is evidence that L-2HG might play a role in regulating the activity of mitochondrial creatine kinase (da Silva et al. 2003) ; due to its structural analogy with L-glutamate, it may also interfere with glutamatergic neurotransmission (Rzem et al. 2004 ).
Recurrent somatic mutations in the isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 (IDH1) and IDH2 genes that result in the accumulation of D-2-hydroxyglutarate (D-2-HG) have been identified in malignant gliomas and in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). However, the function of this metabolite in normal and malignant tissues remains uncertain. A report in the current issue of Science describes a germline IDH2 mutation in a subset of patients with a rare metabolic disorder--D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria-that is similar to mutations seen in cancer patients. These observations further elucidate the effects of IDH mutations on normal and malignant cells.
Heterozygous somatic mutations in the genes encoding isocitrate dehydrogenase-1 and -2 (IDH1 and IDH2) were recently discovered in human neoplastic disorders. These mutations disable the enzymes' normal ability to convert isocitrate to 2-ketoglutarate (2-KG) and confer on the enzymes a new function: the ability to convert 2-KG to d-2-hydroxyglutarate (D-2-HG). We have detected heterozygous germline mutations in IDH2 that alter enzyme residue Arg(140) in 15 unrelated patients with d-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (D-2-HGA), a rare neurometabolic disorder characterized by supraphysiological levels of D-2-HG. These findings provide additional impetus for investigating the role of D-2-HG in the pathophysiology of metabolic disease and cancer.
2-Hydroxyglutaric acid disodium salt (2HG) is a unique biomarker existing in glioma, which can be used for recognizing cancer development stage and identifying the boundary between the ordinary tissue and cancer tissue. However, the most efficient detection method for 2HG now is Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy (MRS), whose testing time is at least twenty minutes and the variability of 2HG (continuous synthesis and decomposition) determines it cannot be used as the real-time image in medical surgery. In this paper, by using the Terahertz Time-domain Spectroscopy (THz-TDS) System, we investigate the vibration spectra of 2HG isomers and further distinguish their physical properties by using Density Functional Theory. The differences between isomers are mainly attributed to the proton transfer inside the carbon chain. These results indicate that terahertz technology can identify the isomers of 2HG accurate and fast, which has important significance for the further investigation of glioma and clinical surgery.
A 3-year-old boy with L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (HGA) who demonstrated severe autistic symptoms is reported from Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Greece; VU University, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; and University Hospital, Heidelberg, Germany.
2-Hydroxyglutaric acid disodium salt (2HG) is a unique biomarker existing in glioma, which can be used for recognizing cancer development stage and identifying the boundary between the ordinary tissue and cancer tissue. However, the most efficient detection method for 2HG now is Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy (MRS), whose testing time is at least twenty minutes and the variability of 2HG (continuous synthesis and decomposition) determines it cannot be used as the real-time image in medical surgery. In this paper, by using the Terahertz Time-domain Spectroscopy (THz-TDS) System, we investigate the vibration spectra of 2HG isomers and further distinguish their physical properties by using Density Functional Theory. The differences between isomers are mainly attributed to the proton transfer inside the carbon chain. These results indicate that terahertz technology can identify the isomers of 2HG accurate and fast, which has important significance for the further investigation of glioma and clinical surgery.
Glioma is one of the most common central nervous system tumors, but only few type of glioma can be 'cured' during lifetime. Most glioma are easy to relapse even after operation, radiotherapy and chemotherapy, result in unfavorable prognosis. At present, the most noninvasive and reliable diagnosis method of glioma is magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Besides, magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) is a novel technique for more accurate diagnosis recently [1] [2] [3] . However, the boundary between tumor and normal tissue is usually unclear, making it difficult for surgeons to remove the tumor completely. Neuronavigation is a common method for real-time tumor location. However, brain shift after opening the dura will affect doctor's judgment and then limit the accuracy of MRS navigation during surgery 4 . Recently, some research groups found a unique biomarker--2HG in glioma 5-8 , which is over-accumulated during the process of lesion: Mutations in isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 and 2 (IDH1, IDH2) are widespread in IDH-mutated glioma patients. These mutations make IDH1 or IDH2 lose the function of clear metabolites (2HG), resulting the accumulation of 2HG within the tumor. In the area of medicine, as comparing with the change of glutamine and glutamate levels in the mutant glioma, significant differences in 2HG level are found between the low-grade gliomas [World Health Organization (WHO) grades II and III] and primary glioblastomas 9 . Therefore, 2HG can be used as a specific Magnetic Resonance Biomarker, monitoring IDH1 and IDH2, tracking glioma state and identifying the boundary between tumor and normal tissue. On the other side, it is found that pure 2HG does not exist in human body, it can only exist with the form of ionic compounds by combining with some metal ions in bodies such as the isomer of L-2-Hydroxyglutaric acid disodium salt (L-2HG) and D-2-Hydroxyglutaric acid disodium salt (D-2HG). In glioma, 2HG is mixture of L-2HG and D-2HG, whose ratio and contents affect the medical diagnosis between glioma (the content of L-2HG is more than that of D-2HG) and the acute myelogenous leukemia ((the content of D-2HG is more than that of L-2HG)) 10, 11 . However, the existing MRS technology cannot identify them effectively. Therefore, a new real-time method for identifying 2HG isomers and accurate locating the tumor region during surgery is urgently needed.
Abstract Makgeolli is a traditional fermented rice wine in Korea containing complex mixture of metabolites. GC–MS datasets coupled with multivariate statistical analysis were used for the first time to investigate metabolic changes in Makgeolli during fermentation and aging, and to assess the fermentative behaviors of yeast strains. Makgeolli fermentation progressed very quickly during the early fermentation period, whereas Makgeolli metabolites barely changed during the aging period for up to 70 days. During alcohol fermentation, decreased levels of glucose and phosphoric acid, along with increased levels of the other identified metabolites were observed. The levels of tryptophan, myo-inositol, malic acid, tyrosine, ornithine, leucine, glutamic acid, glutamine, citric acid, and 2-hydroxyglutaric acid in Makgeolli with the Saccharomyces cerevisiae , as well as the levels of glycerol, lactic acid, glycine, 4-hydroxyphenylethanol, and erytritol in Makgeolli with the Saccharomyces coreanus had the highest significance. This study highlights the applicability of GC–MS based metabolite profiling for monitoring Makgeolli fermentation and evaluating the fermentative characteristics of yeast strains.
The absolute stereochemistry of the 2-hydroxyglutaric acid present in methanopterin and its α-glutamyl derivative, sarcinapterin, has been determined to be (S). Thus, the absolute stereochemistry of the 2-hydroxyglutaric acid present in the side chain of these modified folates is the same as the L-glutamic acid present in the side chain of folates. Chirality 9:678–680, 1997. © 1997 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
Lung cancer is the common cause of cancer-related death worldwide. Platinum-based chemotherapy is the cornerstone of treatment for lung cancer. Platinum sensitivity is a major possibility for effective cancer treatment. In this study, several potential biomarkers were identified for evaluating and predicting the response to platinum-based chemotherapy. LC-MS-based metabolomics was performed on plasma samples from 43 lung cancer patients with different chemotherapy efficacy. By combing multivariate statistical analysis, pathway analysis with correlation analysis, 8 potential biomarkers were significantly associated with platinum chemotherapy response. Moreover, a prediction model with these biomarkers involved in citric acid cycle, glutamate metabolism and amino acid metabolism, showed 100% sensitivity and 100% specificity for predicting chemotherapy response in a validation set. Interestingly, 2-hydroxyglutaric acid (2-HG) as an oncometabolite accumulated in lung cancer was remarkably elevated in the partial response (PR) patients. Collectively, our findings implicated that metabolomics can serve as a potential tool to select lung cancer patients that are more likely to benefit from the platinum-based treatment.
Abstract D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a rare neurometabolic condition with a variable clinical spectrum. Here we report on a patient with speech delay, ascertained for an elevated urine 2-hydroxyglutaric acid levels, and found to have a novel pathogenic homozygous deletion in D2HGDH (NG_012012.1(NM_152783.4):c.(292 + 1_293–1)_(*847_?)del). This case expands on the reported phenotype, with speech delay being the prominent clinical finding and despite identifying a large deletion in the D2HGDH gene, the patient presents with the mild phenotype.
L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (LHGuria) is a rare neurometabolic disorder, which has characteristic clinical and laboratory features. The recent findings imply that LHG dehydrogenase is responsible for the disease and is FAD-dependent. Therefore, it might be expected that riboflavin could enhance any residual activity. We present our observations from nearly 2-year-long riboflavin treatment in a 16-year-old boy with LHGuria. During riboflavin treatment of 100 mg/d, partial improvement in his cognitive and motor performances was observed. Urinary LHG excretion decreased from 5990 mmol/mol creatinine to 1490 mmol/mol creatinine. Moreover, when riboflavin treatment was interrupted, significant disturbances in both symptoms and urinary LHG excretion (6360 mmol/mol creatinine) occurred in the patient. After the resettlement of riboflavine treatment, the patient resumed to his previous clinical status in a week. The improvement went further minimally under the dose of 200mg/d, but no further improvement happened with 300 mg/d. The present case suggests that riboflavin could be considered as a potential therapeutic approach in LHGuria until the optimal treatment of LHGuria is established.
d-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a neurometabolic disorder with both a mild and a severe phenotype and with unknown etiology. Recently, a novel enzyme, d-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase, which converts d-2-hydroxyglutarate into 2-ketoglutarate, and its gene were identified. In the genes of two unrelated patients affected with d-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, we identified disease-causing mutations. One patient was homozygous for a missense mutation (c.1331T-->C; p.Val444Ala). The other patient was compound heterozygous for a missense mutation (c.440T-->G; p.Ile147Ser) and a splice-site mutation (IVS1-23A-->G) that resulted in a null allele. Overexpression studies in HEK-293 cells of proteins containing the missense mutations showed a marked reduction of d-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase activity, proving that mutations in the d-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase gene cause d-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria.
To describe the development of clinical signs (CS) and outcome of L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L-2-HGA), owners of 119 Staffordshire bull terriers positive for the known L-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase autosomal-recessive mutations were requested to complete a questionnaire regarding their pet's CS. Questionnaires were returned for 27 dogs, all with neurological abnormalities-not all questions were answered in all cases. The mean age of CS onset was 12 months (range 2.5-60). Gait dysfunction was reported in 26/26 dogs, with stiffness of all four limbs the most common (24/26) and earliest recognised abnormality. Kyphosis (19/26), body and/or head tremors (19/26) and hypermetria (15/26) were frequent. Behavioural changes were present in 24/27 dogs; most commonly staring into space (21/24), signs of dementia (17/24) and loss of training (15/24). Eighteen dogs demonstrated paroxysmal seizure-like/dyskinetic episodes. Nineteen (70 per cent) dogs were alive at a mean survival time of 76.6 months (12-170) after onset of CS. L-2-HGA was the cause of euthanasia in six dogs. Euthanasia occurred at a mean survival time of 44 months (8.5-93) after onset of CS, with 2/8 dogs euthanased within 12 months. L-2-HGA is considered a progressive neurological disease; however, CS can be successfully managed with affected dogs potentially living a normal lifespan.
BACKGROUND: 2-HydroxyGlutaric Acid (2HGA) is a dicarboxylic acid synthesized from 2-ketoglutarate and 4-hydroxybutyrate via malate dehydrogenase and ALDHFE1 respectively. Urinary excretion of small quantities of 2HGA is normal in healthy individuals. Known disorders of 2HGA metabolism associated with significantly elevated urinary excretion include: D, L and combined 2 hydroxyglutaric aciduria. Clinical phenotypes of these neurometabolic syndromes include neonatal/early-infantile onset encephalopathy, severe developmental delays, hypotonia, seizures, muscle weakness, cardiomyopathy, apnea and multifocal cerebral white matter abnormalities. Current investigational therapies include AG-221 (Agios) for type II D-2 hydroxyglutaric aciduria and Taurine in SSADH deficiency. OBJECTIVE: To report on a large cohort of patients with 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria diagnosed at KFSHRC. METHODS: Random urine samples from Saudi children with static as well as progressive neurodevelopmental disorders were evaluated by GC-MS analysis followed by LC-MSMS chiral analysis of the D and L enantiomers of 2-hydroxyglutaric acid. RESULTS: Since 1995 and among 3197 samples which were abnormal for various inborn errors of metabolism, 27 patients (8.4/1000) with significant 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria were identified. Chiral analysis confirmed L-2HGA (15 patients), D-2HGA (3 patients) and combined D, L-2HGA (5 patients). One patient had D2-HGA in combination with 4-hydroxybytric aciduria. CONCLUSION: L-2HGA is more common among Saudi patients with 2HGA. D-2HGA in combination with 4-hydroxybutyric aciduria likely results from altered activity of ALDHFE1 in combination with recessive germline mutations in SSADH. Accurate diagnosis of the specific etiology of 2HGA is essential for proper management, prognosis, genetic counseling and more recently, potential enrollment in prospective clinical trials.
D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (D-2HGA) is a rare autosomal recessive neurometabolic disorder associated with elevated body fluid levels of D-2-hydroxyglutaric acid and a variable clinical spectrum. Since the first description by Chalmers in 1980 [1] , two distinct phenotypes have emerged. The severe phenotype is characterized by infantile-onset epileptic encephalopathy with intractable seizures, significant hypotonia, cardiomyopathy, cortical blindness, apneas and stridor, severe global developmental delay, facial dysmorphisms, and early death. The characteristic brain MRI findings reported in the severe phenotype, include ventriculomegaly, subependymal cysts in the neonatal and early infantile period, and delayed cerebral maturation. The mild phenotype shares some features of the more severe presentation, though the features are present to a much milder degree. Features of the mild phenotype include medication-responsive epilepsy, hypotonia, lethargy, and developmental delay [2, 3] . Similar brain MRI findings to those seen in the severe phenotype are reported in patients with the mild phenotype [3] . Additional features reported more recently in the mild phenotype, include spondyloenchondrodysplasia [4] and peripheral neuropathy [5] .
Pathogenic variants in D2HGDH or IDH2, which encode the mitochondrial enzymes D-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase and isocitrate dehydrogenase respectively, result in accumulation of D-2-hydroxyglutaric acid [6, 7] and follow an autosomal recessive or dominant mode of inheritance, respectively. In addition, pathogenic variants in SLC25A1 encoding the mitochondrial citrate carrier can result in accumulation of both D-2-hydroxyglutaric acid and the enantiomer L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid [8] .
The elevated D-2-hydroxyglutaric acid levels are found in the blood, urine, and CSF of patients with the severe and the mild phenotypes, and clinical severity does not appear to correlate with the absolute value of the metabolite.
l-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a rare inherited, neurometabolic disorder. The underlying metabolic defect and the pathophysiology of l-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria have not yet been defined. We present MR spectroscopy and cranial MR imaging findings, including diffusion-weighted sequences in two male siblings (aged 10 and 12 years). MR spectroscopy revealed a multiplet at 2.10-2.50 ppm and two broad peaks at 0.9-1.6 ppm. The multiplet at 2.10-2.50 ppm might have been created by elevated glutamate and glutamine or l-2-hydroxyglutaric acid itself, which has a similar chemical structure to glutamate. Diffusion-weighted images demonstrated increased diffusion of water molecules in the white-matter lesions.
PM2.5 aerosol samples,collected during the summer of 2011 in Sichuan Panzhihua Cycad National Nature Reserve,were extracted with mixed solution,derivatized with N,O-bis-(trimethylsilyl) trifluoroacetamide(BSTFA) and analyzed by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry(GC/MS).The objectives of this study were to examine the time series of photooxidation products of isoprene,α-/β-pinene and β-caryophyllene and of some small molecular carboxylic acids,to determine their concentrations and estimate their contributions to aerosol organic carbon(OC).The results showed that average concentrations of total isoprene and α-/β-pinene oxidation products and β-caryophyllinic acid in 24 h PM2.5 aerosol samples were 51.2,16.1 and 1.7 ng/m3,respectively.Average levels of malic acid and 2-hydroxyglutaric acid were 12.4 ng/m3 and 4.9 ng/m3,and the mean concentrations of OC and elemental carbon(EC) were 20.3 μg/m3 and 5.9 μg/m3,respectively.Contributions of isoprene,α-/β-pinene and β-caryophyllene oxidation products to OC were 1.63%,0.34% and 0.36% during sampling campaign,respectively.
L-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L-2-HGA) is a rare progressive neurometabolic disease, defined as a characteristic clinical and radiological entity, mainly including mental retardation, cerebellar dysfunction and involvement of the subcortical white matter, cerebellum and basal ganglia on brain MRI. The biochemical hallmark is an increased urinary excretion of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid. Management is only supportive. A child born to a Turkish mother in whom L-2-HGA was previously diagnosed is reported. Although pregnancy was repeatedly advised against because of the important degree of mental retardation and the potential risk of a toxic effect on the embryo and/or fetus (at that time no reports of maternal L-2-HGA were available), she became pregnant at 30 years of age and the pregnancy passed uneventfully. On amniocentesis, performed at 5 months of gestational age, elevated 2-hydroxyglutarate, previously shown to be almost exclusively the L-2-stereoisomer, was present in the amniotic fluid: 27.5μ mol/L (controls <1.3; n=5). The child, not affected by the disease as shown by a normal urinary excretion of 2-hydroxyglutaric acid, was normal at birth. When last examined at the age of 3 years, both somatic and mental development were excellent. As the pathogenesis of the extensive brain damage in affected persons remains largely unknown, notwithstanding the recent identification of the mutated gene and the deficient enzyme, one can only speculate on the mechanism by which embryo and fetus from a L-2-HGA mother are spared, at least in this case.
Background L-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a rare, infantile-onset, autosomal recessive organic aciduria affecting exclusively the central nervous system. To our knowledge, only 1 complete report of the neuropathological findings in an adult has been published. Objective To present the clinical, neuroimaging, and neuropathological findings ofL-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. Design Case report. Setting Complexo Hospitalario de Pontevedra, Pontevedra, Spain. Patient A 15-year-old boy who had early infantile-onset progressive psychomotor regression, mild choreodystonia affecting the distal part of the upper limbs, pyramidal signs, and epilepsy. Results The diagnosis ofL-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria was confirmed by the finding of highly elevated levels ofL-2-hydroxyglutaric acid in the serum, urine, and cerebrospinal fluid. The neuroimaging findings showed striking confluent subcortical white matter lesions and minimal basal ganglia (pallidum, thalamic, and putaminal) abnormalities. The patient died of a spontaneous mesenteric thrombosis. The postmortem neuropathological findings showed spongiosis and cystic cavitations in subcortical white matter, with minimal abnormalities of the basal ganglia. The dentate nucleus, a structure usually affected in neuroimaging studies, showed minimal neuronal loss but was surrounded by important spongiosis and microvacuolation with astrocytic proliferation. Conclusions This case reaffirms thatL-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a spongiform type of leukoencephalopathy with cystic cavitations predominating in the subcortical areas. Although the neuroimaging findings are highly characteristic of the disease, in this patient cerebellar abnormalities were minimal and dentate signal abnormalities were not present.
Patients with an inborn error of metabolism (IEM) are deficient of an enzyme involved in metabolism, and as a consequence metabolism reprograms itself to reach a new steady state. This new steady state underlies the clinical phenotype associated with the deficiency. Hence, we need to know the flux of metabolites through the different metabolic pathways in this new steady state of the reprogrammed metabolism. Stable isotope technology is best suited to study this. In this review the progress made in characterizing the altered metabolism will be presented. Studies done in patients to estimate the residual flux through the metabolic pathway affected by enzyme deficiencies will be discussed. After this, studies done in model systems will be reviewed. The focus will be on glycogen storage disease type I, medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency, propionic and methylmalonic aciduria, urea cycle defects, phenylketonuria, and combined D,L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. Finally, new developments are discussed, which allow the tracing of metabolic reprogramming in IEM on a genome-wide scale. In conclusion, the outlook for flux analysis of metabolic derangement in IEMs looks promising.
SLC25A1 mutations are associated with combined D,L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (DL- 2HGA; OMIM #615182), characterized by muscular hypotonia, severe neurodevelopmental dysfunction and intractable seizures. SLC25A1 encodes the mitochondrial citrate carrier (CIC), which mediates efflux of the mitochondrial tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle intermediates citrate and isocitrate in exchange for cytosolic malate. Only a single family with an SLC25A1 mutation has been described in which mitochondrial respiratory chain dysfunction was documented, specifically in complex IV. Five infants of two consanguineous Bedouin families of the same tribe presented with small head circumference and neonatal-onset encephalopathy with severe muscular weakness, intractable seizures, respiratory distress, and lack of psychomotor development culminating in early death. Ventricular septal defects (VSD) were demonstrated in three patients. Blood and CSF lactate were elevated with normal levels of plasma amino acids and free carnitine and increased 2-OH-glutaric acid urinary exertion. EEG was compatible with white matter disorder. Brain MRI revealed ventriculomegaly, thin corpus callosum with increased lactate peak on spectroscopy. Mitochondrial complex V deficiency was demonstrated in skeletal muscle biopsy of one infant. Homozygosity mapping and sequencing ruled out homozygosity of affected individuals in all known complex V-associated genes. Whole exome sequencing identified a novel homozygous SLC25A1 c.713A>G (p.Asn238Ser) mutation, segregating as expected in the affected kindred and not found in 220 control alleles. Thus, SLC25A1 mutations might be associated with mitochondrial complex V deficiency and should be considered in the differential diagnosis of mitochondrial respiratory chain defects.
Integrated PM2.5 aerosol samples were collected at Baima Spring Scenic Area, a forest site of Yaan, Sichuan Province, during the summer of 2010. Organic speciation including isoprene oxidation products (2-methyltetrols, C5-alkene trols, 2-methylyceric acid), alpha-/beta-pinene oxidation products (norpinic acid, 3-hydroxyglutaric acid, 3-methy-1,2,3-butanetricarboxylic acid), and small molecular carboxylic acid (malic acid, 2-hydroxyglutaric acid) were analyzed. The generation mechanisms of SOA as well as their influencing factors were particularly discussed. Results show that average concentrations of 2-methyltetrols, C5-alkene triols, 2-methyglyceric acid, norpinic acid, 3-hydroxyglutaric acid and 3-methy-1,2,3-butanetricarboxylic acid are 63.3, 45.0, 4.4, 4.1, 5.0, 5.3 ng x m(-3) respectively, of 24-hour lapse samples. SOA compounds are consistent with higher concentrations in the day than during the night only except for norpinic acid. Relatively high level of biogenic SOA at the study area is concerned with many environmental factors, i. e. local abundant vegetations, warm and humid climate, sunken valley topography, the atmospheric pollution state, etc.
..... L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L-2-HGA) is a neurometabolic disorder that produces a variety of clinical neurological deficits, including psychomotor retardation, seizures and ataxia. The biochemical hallmark of L-2-HGA is the accumulation of L-2hydroxyglutaric acid (L-2-HG) in cerebrospinal fluid, plasma and urine. Mutations within the gene L2HGDH (Entrez Gene ID 79944) on chromosome 14q22 encoding L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid dehydrogenase have recently been shown to cause L-2HGA in humans. Using a candidate gene approach in an outbred pet dog population segregating L-2-HGA, the causal molecular defect was identified in the canine homologue of L2HGDH and characterised. DNA sequencing and pedigree analysis indicate a common founder effect in the canine model. The canine model shares many of the clinical and MRI features of the disease in humans and represents a valuable resource as a spontaneous model of L-2-HGA.
Defective fatty acid oxidation as well as amino acid degradation led to accumulation of GA, lactate, and dicarboxylic acids such as ethylmalonate and adipate [6] . Two other clinical entities, both affecting the nervous system, are characterized by accumulation of D-and L-2-hydroxyglutaric acids (D-2OHGA, L-2OHGA), respectively, in tissues and body fluids [7] [8] [9] . Patients with D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria suffer from developmental delay, macroencephalus, epilepsy, and cerebral atrophy. Defects of either hydroxyacid-oxoacid transhydrogenase or D-2OHGA dehydrogenase have been observed in these patients. L-2-hydoxyglutaric aciduria is caused by deficiency of the FAD-dependent L-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase and accompanied by psychomotor retardation, ataxia, hypotonia, tremor, and seizures [10] .
Background: L-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a rare, infantile-onset, autosomal recessive organic aciduria affecting exclusively the central nervous system. To our knowledge, only 1 complete report of the neuropathological findings in an adult has been published.
Objective: To present the clinical, neuroimaging, and neuropathological findings of L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria.
Setting: Complexo Hospitalario de Pontevedra, Pontevedra, Spain. Patient: A 15-year-old boy who had early infantileonset progressive psychomotor regression, mild choreodystonia affecting the distal part of the upper limbs, pyramidal signs, and epilepsy. Results: The diagnosis of L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria was confirmed by the finding of highly elevated levels of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid in the serum, urine, and cere-(REPRINTED) ARCH NEUROL / VOL 62, APR 2005 WWW.ARCHNEUROL.COM 666
Patients with an inborn error of metabolism (IEM) are deficient of an enzyme involved in metabolism, and as a consequence metabolism reprograms itself to reach a new steady state. This new steady state underlies the clinical phenotype associated with the deficiency. Hence, we need to know the flux of metabolites through the different metabolic pathways in this new steady state of the reprogrammed metabolism. Stable isotope technology is best suited to study this. In this review the progress made in characterizing the altered metabolism will be presented. Studies done in patients to estimate the residual flux through the metabolic pathway affected by enzyme deficiencies will be discussed. After this, studies done in model systems will be reviewed. The focus will be on glycogen storage disease type I, medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency, propionic and methylmalonic aciduria, urea cycle defects, phenylketonuria, and combined D,L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. Finally, new developments are discussed, which allow the tracing of metabolic reprogramming in IEM on a genome-wide scale. In conclusion, the outlook for flux analysis of metabolic derangement in IEMs looks promising.
When an enzyme is deficient, metabolism seeks a new steady state, away from its physiological homeostasis. A new balance of fluxes associated with the consumption and production of metabolites characterizes the new steady state. A flux is the actual flow of metabolites through a metabolic pathway and is determined by both the rate of supply of substrates and the capacity of that pathway to convert them into products. Hence, neither changes in concentrations of intermediates nor changes in enzyme concentrations and/or activities of the reprogrammed metabolism separately hold information on the changes of the distribution of fluxes. The question arises of how to measure these changes. This review focuses mainly on studies applying stable isotope technology with mass spectrometric detection of mass isotopomer distributions (MID) of metabolites after separation by chromatography. In the next section, a short overview of the relevant stable isotope technology will be given followed by a discussion of the experimental studies over the last decades of a selected group of IEM; glycogen storage disease type I (GSD I), medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (MCAD) deficiency, propionic aciduria (PA) and methylmalonic aciduria (MMA), urea cycle defects (UCD), phenylketonuria (PKU) and combined D,L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. An earlier discussion of the application of stable isotopes in IEM can be found in Eur J Pediatr 156 Supplement 1 (1997) .
Tissue accumulation of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid (L-2-HG) is the biochemical hallmark of L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L-2-HGA), a rare neurometabolic inherited disease characterized by neurological symptoms and brain white matter abnormalities whose pathogenesis is not yet well established. L-2-HG was intracerebrally administered to rat pups at postnatal day 1 (P1) to induce a rise of L-2-HG levels in the central nervous system (CNS). Thereafter, we investigated whether L-2-HG in vivo administration could disturb redox homeostasis and induce brain histopathological alterations in the cerebral cortex and striatum of neonatal rats. L-2-HG markedly induced the generation of reactive oxygen species (increase of 2',7'-dichloroflurescein-DCFH-oxidation), lipid peroxidation (increase of malondialdehyde concentrations), and protein oxidation (increase of carbonyl formation and decrease of sulfhydryl content), besides decreasing the antioxidant defenses (reduced glutathione-GSH) and sulfhydryl content in the cerebral cortex. Alterations of the activities of various antioxidant enzymes were also observed in the cerebral cortex and striatum following L-2-HG administration. Furthermore, L-2-HG-induced lipid peroxidation and GSH decrease in the cerebral cortex were prevented by the antioxidant melatonin and by the classical antagonist of NMDA glutamate receptor MK-801, suggesting the involvement of reactive species and of overstimulation of NMDA receptor in these effects. Finally, L-2-HG provoked significant vacuolation and edema particularly in the cerebral cortex with less intense alterations in the striatum that were possibly associated with the unbalanced redox homeostasis caused by this metabolite. Taken together, it is presumed that these pathomechanisms may underlie the neurological symptoms and brain abnormalities observed in the affected patients.
gamma-Hydroxybutyratic acid (GHB), and its prodrugs 4-butyrolactone and 1,4-butanediol, represent expanding drugs of abuse, although GHB is also used therapeutically to treat narcolepsy and alcoholism. Thus, the pathway by which GHB is metabolized is of importance. The goal of the current study was to examine GHB metabolism in mice with targeted ablation of the GABA degradative enzyme succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase (SSADH(-/-) mice), in whom GHB persistently accumulates, and in baboons intragastrically administered with GHB immediately and persistently. Three hypotheses concerning GHB metabolism were tested: (1) degradation via mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation; (2) conversion to 4,5-dihydroxyhexanoic acid (a putative condensation product of the GHB derivative succinic semialdehyde); and (3) conversion to d-2-hydroxyglutaric acid (d-2-HG) catalyzed by d-2-hydroxyglutarate transhydrogenase (a reaction previously documented only in rat). Both d-2-HG and 4,5-dihydroxyhexanoic acid were significantly increased in neural and nonneural tissue extracts derived from SSADH(-/-) mice. In vitro studies demonstrated the ability of 4,5-dihydroxyhexanoic acid to displace the GHB receptor ligand NCS-382 (IC(50) = 38 micromol/L), although not affecting GABA(B) receptor binding. Blood and urine derived from baboons administered with GHB also accumulated d-2-HG, but not 4,5-dihydroxyhexanoic acid. Our results indicate that d-2-HG is a prominent GHB metabolite and provide further evidence for the existence of d-2-hydroxyglutarate transhydrogenase in different mammalian species.
Two female Yorkshire terrier puppies were presented with generalized tonic-clonic seizures and ataxia. MRI revealed bilaterally symmetrical, diffuse regions of gray matter hyperintensity on T2-weighted and fluid-attenuated inversion recovery sequences. Urinary organic acids were quantified by gas chromatography-mass spectroscopy and were consistent with a diagnosis of L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L2HGA). The L2HGDH gene encodes for the enzyme L-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase, which helps break down L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid. In both puppies described in this report, a homozygous mutation at the translation initiation codon of the homolog canine L2HGDH gene was detected (c.1A.G; p.Met1?), confirming the diagnosis of L2HGA at the DNA level. Canine L2HGA is caused by more than one mutation of L2HGDH, as reported in humans. ( JA m Anim Hosp Assoc 2012; 48:366–371. DOI 10.5326/JAAHA-MS-5967)
The classification of metabolic disorders according to the etiology is not practical for neuroradiological purposes because the underlying defect does not uniformly transform into morphological characteristics. Therefore typical MR and clinical features of some easily identifiable metabolic disorders are presented. Canavan disease, Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease, Alexander disease, X-chromosomal adrenoleukodystrophy and adrenomyeloneuropathy, mitochondrial disorders, such as MELAS (mitochondrial encephalopathy, lactic acidosis, and stroke-like episodes) and Leigh syndrome as well as L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria are presented.
Mutations in isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 and 2 (IDH1/2) have been discovered in several cancer types and cause the neurometabolic syndrome D2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (D2HGA). The mutant enzymes exhibit neomorphic activity resulting in production of D2-hydroxyglutaric acid (D-2HG). To study the pathophysiological consequences of the accumulation of D-2HG, we generated transgenic mice with conditionally activated IDH2R140Q and IDH2R172K alleles. Global induction of mutant IDH2 expression in adults resulted in dilated cardiomyopathy, white matter abnormalities throughout the central nervous system (CNS), and muscular dystrophy. Embryonic activation of mutant IDH2 resulted in more pronounced phenotypes, including runting, hydrocephalus, and shortened life span, recapitulating the abnormalities observed in D2HGA patients. The diseased hearts exhibited mitochondrial damage and glycogen accumulation with a concordant up-regulation of genes involved in glycogen biosynthesis. Notably, mild cardiac hypertrophy was also observed in nude mice implanted with IDH2R140Q-expressing xenografts, suggesting that 2HG may potentially act in a paracrine fashion. Finally, we show that silencing of IDH2R140Q in mice with an inducible transgene restores heart function by lowering 2HG levels. Together, these findings indicate that inhibitors of mutant IDH2 may be beneficial in the treatment of D2HGA and suggest that 2HG produced by IDH mutant tumors has the potential to provoke a paraneoplastic condition.
Macrocephaly, enlarged head size, can be seen in a wide range of conditions including hydrocephalus and genetic syndromes. Benign familial macrocephaly may be seen in multiple generations and is not associated with neurologic concerns. When macrocephaly is seen in conjunction with abnormal white matter on neuroimaging, specific genetic leukoencephalopathies should be considered, including Alexander's disease, Canavan's disease, childhood ataxia with central hypomyelination/ vanishing white matter disease (CACH/VWMD), glutaric aciduria type I, L2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, and megalencephalic leukoencephalopathy with subcortical cysts (MLC).
We report a male infant with L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria and Wilms tumor. L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a rare, autosomal-recessive, inborn error of metabolism characterized by a variable degree of progressive encephalopathy. Of the fewer than 100 cases reported in the literature, at least 9 patients have developed tumors of the central nervous system. To our knowledge, the present case is the 1st example of an extracranial tumor associated with L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. This observation potentially widens the tumor spectrum in this metabolic disorder and may lead to further insight into the relationship between L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid and cellular transformation.
INTRODUCTION ::: L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a rare metabolic disorder with quite typical radiological abnormalities and various clinical symptoms. ::: ::: ::: OBSERVATION ::: A 19-year-old girl presented with ataxia, facial dyskinesia, and mild cognitive impairment. Cerebral magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated subcortical white matter T2 abnormalities and a suggestive rim hyperintensity around the caudate nuclei and the putamen. Diagnosis was confirmed by increased 2-hydroxyglutaric acid in urine and a genetic study (Gly260Ala mutation in the L-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase (L2HGDH) gene). ::: ::: ::: DISCUSSION ::: This case highlights the movement disorder onset and radiological aspects that should indicate the L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria diagnosis.
Cerebral organic acidemias include glutaric aciduria 1 (GA1, #231670), L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (#236792), and several others which are rarer. They do not affect organs other than the brain, but they continue to have detectable organic acids in the urine and blood.
Prior to its discovery in cancer, 2-Hg was known to be elevated in d-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, which is a very rare germline metabolic disorder characterized by seizures, developmental delays, and dysmorphisms. research modeling this disease showed that 2-Hg induces oxidative stress (OS) in rat brain cortical slides [19] . Wild-type IDH1 and IDH2 help maintain intracellular redox status, as their oxidation of isocitrate also produces NADPH, an important reducing equivalent in the cell [1] . In contrast, mutant IDH1 consumes NADPH during catalysis [7] . Together these findings suggest that, in addition to hypermethylation, mutant IDH1 and 2-Hg might promote OS and autophagy or apoptosis, which could contribute to the less aggressive behavior of this glioma subset. However, neither α-Kg nor NADPH levels appear to significantly differ in mutant versus wild-type gliomas [7, 14] ; to date, characterization of OS, autophagic, and apoptotic activity in IDH1-mutant gliomas have not been done. Furthermore, while recent studies have shown that overexpression of r132H IDH1 predisposes U87Mg and lN229 glioma cells, which are normally wild type for IDH1, to oxidative stress [22, 27] , it is unclear whether such cells might respond differently to induced overexpression of the mutation or abrupt challenge with 2-Hg, as compared to when a single mutant allele arises spontaneously in a tumor progenitor cell and persists throughout that tumor's growth. likewise, it is not known whether responses to 2-Hg and mutant IDH1 might vary between glioma cell lines.
Organic acidurias are an important group of inherited metabolic disorders that affect the intermediary metabolic pathways of carbohydrate, amino acid, and fatty acid oxidation, leading to the accumulation of organic acids.1 The 2-hydroxyglutaric acidurias are rare neurometabolic disorders characterized by developmental delay with or without other neurologic dysfunction. Three different subtypes have been described: d-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, l-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, and combined d-l-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. We describe the case of a child presenting with developmental delay who was found to have the classical biochemical, imaging, and genetic features of l-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria.
We describe 2 brothers with L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria who developed severe spastic tetraparesis in their 30s. They also had an underlying condition of high-grade cervical spinal canal stenosis diagnosed by magnetic resonance imaging. They were operated on to decompress the spine, and the preexisting gait disturbances slowly diminished after the decompression. Since most people with L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria show spastic signs in their legs and arms, we conclude that cervical spinal canal stenosis may be the underlying reason and may be linked to this rare metabolic disorder.
Concentrations of organic acids in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) appear to be directly dependent upon their rate of production in the brain. There is evidence that the net release of short-chain monocarboxylic acids from the brain is a major route for removing these products of cerebral metabolism. Concentrations of organic acids in blood and CSF are largely independent of each other. Quantitative reference values for the concentrations of organic acids in CSF and plasma as well as ratios of individual organic acids between CSF and plasma were determined in 35 pairs of samples from paediatric patients. Over 25 organic acids were quantifiable in all or in the majority of CSF and/or plasma specimens (limit of detection 1 mumol/L). There were substantial differences in the CSF/plasma ratios between subgroups of organic acids. Metabolites related to fatty-acid oxidation were present in CSF in substantially less amounts than in plasma. Organic acids related to carbohydrate and energy metabolism and to amino acid degradation were present in CSF in the same amounts as or slightly smaller amounts than in plasma. Finally, some organic acids were found in substantially higher amounts in CSF than in plasma, e.g. glycolate, glycerate, 2,4-dihydroxybutyrate, citrate and isocitrate. Studies of organic acids in CSF and plasma samples are presented from patients with 'cerebral' lactic acidosis, disorders of propionate and methylmalonate metabolism, glutaryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency and L-2-hydroxy-glutaric aciduria. It became apparent that derangements of organic acids in the CSF may occur independently of the systemic metabolism. Quantitative organic acid analysis in CSF will yield new information on the pathophysiology in the central nervous system (CNS) of these disorders and may prove necessary for successful monitoring of treatment of organoacidopathies, which present mainly with neurological disease. For example, in glutaryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency the urinary excretion of glutarate appears to be an inadequate parameter for monitoring the effect of dietary therapy, without plasma and CSF determinations. In L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria the elevation of L-2-hydroxyglutarate was found to be greater in CSF than in plasma. In addition, some other organic acids, glycolate, glycerate, 2,4-dihydroxybutyrate, citrate and isocitrate, were also elevated in the CSF of the patients out of proportion to normal levels in plasma and urine. High concentrations of an unknown compound, which was tentatively identified as 2,4-dihydroxyglutarate, were found in the CSF of patients with L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
e describe 2 brothers with L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria who developed severe spastic tetraparesis in their 30s. They also had an underlying condition of high-grade cervical spinal canal stenosis diagnosed by magnetic resonance imaging. They were operated on to decompress the spine, and the preexisting gait disturbances slowly diminished after the decompression. Since most people with L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria show spastic signs in their legs and arms, we conclude that cervical spinal canal stenosis may be the underlying reason and may be linked to this rare metabolic disorder.
Myelin and White Matter.- Classification of Myelin Disorders.- Selective Vulnerability.- Myelination and Retarded Myelination.- Lysosomes and Lysosomal Disorders.- Metachromatic Leukodystrophy.- Multiple Sulfatase Deficiency.- Globoid Cell Leukodystrophy: Krabbe Disease.- GM1 Gangliosidosis.- GM2 Gangliosidosis.- Fabry Disease.- Fucosidosis.- Mucoplysaccharidoses.- Free Sialic Acid Storage Disorder.- Neuronal Ceroid Lipofuscinoses.- Adult Polyglucosan Body Disease.- Peroxisomes and Peroxisomal Disorders.- Peroxisome Biogenesis Defects.- Peroxisomal D-Bifunctional Protein Deficiency.- Peroxisomal Acyl-CoA Oxidase Deficiency.- X-Linked Adrenoleukodystrophy.- Refsum Disease.- Mitochondria and Mitochondrial Disorders.- Mitochondrial Encephalopathy with Lactic Acidosis and Stroke-like Episodes.- Leber Hereditary Optic Neuropathy.- Kearns-Sayre Syndrome.- Mitochondrial Neurogastrointestinal Encephalomyopathy.- Leigh Syndrome and Mitochondrial Leukoencephalopathies.- Pyruvate Carboxylase Deficiency.- Multiple Carboxylase Deficiency.- Cerebrotendinous Xanthomatosis.- Cockayne Syndrome.- Trichothiodystrophy with Photosensitivity.- Pelizaeus-Merzbacher Disease and X-linked Spastic Paraplegia Type 2.- 18q? Syndrome.- Phenylketonuria.- Glutaric Aciduria Type 1.- Propionic Acidemia.- Nonketotic Hyperglycinemia.- Maple Syrup Urine Disease.- 3-Hydroxy-3-Methylglutaryl-CoA Lyase Deficiency.- Canavan Disease.- L-2-Hydroxyglutaric Aciduria.- D-2-Hydroxyglutaric Aciduria.- Hyperhomocysteinemias.- Urea Cycle Defects.- Serine Synthesis Defect Caused by 3-Phosphoglycerate Dehydrogenase Deficiency.- Molybdenum Cofactor Deficiency and Isolated Sulfite Oxidase Deficiency.- Galactosemia.- Sjogren-Larsson Syndrome.- Lowe Syndrome.- Wilson Disease.- Menkes Disease.- Fragile X Premutation.- Hypomelanosis of Ito.- Incontinentia Pigmenti.- Alexander Disease.- Giant Axonal Neuropathy.- Megalencephalic Leukoencephalopathy with Subcortical Cysts.- Congenital Muscular Dystrophies.- Myotonic Dystrophy Type 1.- Myotonic Dystrophy Type 2.- X-linked Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease.- Oculodentodigital Dysplasia.- Leukoencephalopathy with Vanishing White Matter.- Aicardi-Goutieres Syndrome.- Leukoencephalopathy with Calcifications and Cysts.- Leukoencephalopathy with Brain Stem and Spinal Cord Involvement and Elevated White Matter Lactate.- Hypomyelination with Atrophy of the Basal Ganglia and Cerebellum.- Hereditary Diffuse Leukoencephalopathy with Neuroaxonal Spheroids.- Dentatorubropallidoluysian Atrophy.- Cerebral Amyloid Angiopathy.- Cerebral Autosomal Dominant Arteriopathy with Subcortical Infarcts and Leukoencephalopathy.- Cerebral Autosomal Recessive Arteriopathy with Subcortical Infarcts and Leukoencephalopathy.- Polycystic Lipomembranous Osteodysplasia with Sclerosing Leukoencephalopathy (Nasu-Hakola Disease).- Pigmentary Orthochromatic Leukodystrophy.- Adult-Onset Autosomal Dominant Leukoencephalopathies.- Inflammatory and Infectious Disorders.- Multiple Sclerosis.- Acute Disseminated Encephalomyelitis and Acute Hemorrhagic Encephalomyelitis.- Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome.- Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy.- Brucellosis.- Subacute Sclerosing Panencephalitis.- Congenital and Perinatal Cytomegalovirus Infection.- Whipple Disease.- Toxic Encephalopathies.- Iatrogenic Toxic Encephalopathies.- Central Pontine and Extrapontine Myelinolysis.- Hypernatremia.- Marchiafava-Bignami Syndrome.- Posterior Reversible Encephalopathy Syndrome.- Langerhans Cell Histiocytosis.- Post-Hypoxic-Ischemic Damage.- Post-Hypoxic-Ischemic Encephalopathy of Neonates.- Neonatal Hypoglycemia.- Delayed Posthypoxic Leukoencephalopathy.- White Matter Lesions of the Elderly.- Subcortical Arteriosclerotic Encephalopathy.- Vasculitis.- Leukoencephalopathy and Dural Arteriovenous Fistulas.- Leukoencephalopathy After Radiotherapy and Chemotherapy.- Gliomatosis Cerebri.- Diffuse Axonal Injury.- Wallerian Degeneration and Myelin Loss Secondary to Neuronal and Axonal Degeneration.- Diffusion-Weighted Imaging.- Magnetization Transfer Imaging.- Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy: Basic Principles and Application in White Matter Disorders.- Pattern Recognition in White Matter Disorders.
It has recently been recognized that D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a distinct neurometabolic disorder with a severe and a mild phenotype. Whereas the clinical and neuroimaging findings of the severe phenotype were homogeneous among the patients, the findings in the mild phenotype were much more variable, leaving the clinical picture poorly defined. We were able to collect the clinical, biochemical and neuroimaging data on an additional 8 patients with D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, 4 with the severe and 4 with the mild phenotype. With the new information, it becomes clear that the mild phenotype shares the essential characteristics of the severe phenotype. The most frequent findings, regardless of the clinical phenotype, are epilepsy, hypotonia and psychomotor retardation. Additional findings, mainly occurring in the severe phenotype, are episodic vomiting, cardiomyopathy, inspiratory stridor and apnoeas. The most consistent MRI finding is enlargement of the lateral ventricles, occipital more than frontal. Regardless of the clinical phenotype, early MRI shows in addition subependymal cysts and signs of delayed cerebral maturation. Later MRI may reveal multifocal cerebral white-matter abnormalities. Two patients had vascular abnormalities, but it is as yet unclear whether these are related to D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria or are incidental findings.
D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (D-2-HGA) is a cerebral organic aciduria characterized by the accumulation of abnormal amounts of D-2-hydroxyglutaric acid in cerebrospinal fluid, blood, and urine. The clinical phenotype varies widely from neonatal severe epileptic encephalopathy to asymptomatic. Magnetic resonance imaging of affected patients typically show signs of delayed cerebral maturation, ventricular abnormalities and the presence of sub-ependymal cysts in the first months of life. We present clinical, biochemical and brain magnetic resonance imaging data of two pediatric patients with D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. One patient presented with severe early infantile-onset epileptic encephalopathy, marked hypotonia, visual deficit, developmental delay and abnormal neuroradiological findings; while the other had hypotonia and development delay. Our findings reinforce the described phenotype of this rare neurometabolic inherited disorder. The diagnostic approach is based on clinical findings and the neuroimaging pattern and is established by the detection of D-2-hydroxyglutaric acid in body fluids. We suggest considering D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria in the differential diagnosis of any neonate or infant with epileptic encephalopathy and CNS dysfunction of unknown origin.
Some exometabolites produced by basic representatives of human anaerobic microflora were investigated, detected by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). In vitro besides lactic acid Bifidobacterium and Lactobacillus generate substantial amounts of phenyllactic and p-hydroxyphenyllactic acids. Clostridium produced 2-hydroxybutyric acid and to a lesser extent lactic and phenyllactic acids. In contrast to C. perfringens, C. sporogenes generates substantial amount of phenylpropionic and p-hydroxyphenylpropionic acids and less p-hydroxyphenyllactic acid. C. perfringens produced minor amounts of 2-hydroxyglutaric acid. Bacteroids are potent producers of succinic and fumaric acids; they also contribute to production of significant portion of lactic acid. E. lentum generate lactic, phenyllactic and succinic acids and form a characteristic only for ones (from studied microorganisms) 2-hydroxyhexanic and 2-hydroxy-3-methylbutyric acids.
l-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a rare organic aciduria associated with neurological and particularly cerebellar abnormalities. These abnormalities developed in childhood or later in all previously described patients. We report a more severe form ofl-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria in which an infant presented shortly after birth with hypotonia, apnoea, and seizures, leading to death in the perinatal period. Computerized tomography scans of the brain at 1 day and 2 weeks of age showed abnormal low density of the cerebellum. Examination of the brain showed brainstem and cerebellar atrophy with neuronal loss and gliosis in an olivopontocerebellar distribution. The diagnosis ofl-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria should be considered in any non-dysmorphic newborn with progressive neurological abnormalities and CNS imaging suggesting low density and size of the cerebellum. The diagnostic consideration is based initially on clinical findings. Conventional urine organic acid analysis reveals the presence of 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. Specific diagnosis requires methodologies which distinguish thel- from thed-isomer.
Some exometabolites produced by basic representatives of human anaerobic microflora were investigated, detected by gas chromatography - mass spectrometry (GC-MS). In vitro besides lactic acid Bifidobacterium and Lactobacillus generate substantial amounts of phenyllactic and p-hydroxyphenyllactic acids. Clostridium produced 2-hydroxybutyric acid and to a lesser extent lactic and phenyllactic acids. In contrast to С. perfringens, C. sporogenes generates substantial amount of phenylpropionic and p-hydroxyphenylpropionic acids and less p-hydroxyphenyllactic acid. С. perfringens produced minor amounts of 2-hydroxyglutaric acid. Bacteroids are potent producers of succinic and fumaric acids; they also contribute to production of significant portion of lactic acid. E. lentum generate lactic, phenyllactic and succinic acids and form a characteristic only for ones (from studied microorganisms) 2-hydroxyhexanic and 2-hydroxy-3-methylbutyric acids.
Cancer-associated point mutations in isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 and 2 (IDH1 and IDH2) confer a neomorphic enzymatic activity: the reduction of α-ketoglutarate to d-2-hydroxyglutaric acid, which is proposed to act as an oncogenic metabolite by inducing hypermethylation of histones and DNA. Although selective inhibitors of mutant IDH1 and IDH2 have been identified and are currently under investigation as potential cancer therapeutics, the mechanistic basis for their selectivity is not yet well understood. A high throughput screen for selective inhibitors of IDH1 bearing the oncogenic mutation R132H identified compound 1, a bis-imidazole phenol that inhibits d-2-hydroxyglutaric acid production in cells. We investigated the mode of inhibition of compound 1 and a previously published IDH1 mutant inhibitor with a different chemical scaffold. Steady-state kinetics and biophysical studies show that both of these compounds selectively inhibit mutant IDH1 by binding to an allosteric site and that inhibition is competitive with respect to Mg(2+). A crystal structure of compound 1 complexed with R132H IDH1 indicates that the inhibitor binds at the dimer interface and makes direct contact with a residue involved in binding of the catalytically essential divalent cation. These results show that targeting a divalent cation binding residue can enable selective inhibition of mutant IDH1 and suggest that differences in magnesium binding between wild-type and mutant enzymes may contribute to the inhibitors' selectivity for the mutant enzyme.
D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria Type I (D-2-HGA Type I), a neurometabolic disorder with a broad clinical spectrum, is caused by recessive variants in the D2HGDH gene encoding D-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase (D-2-HGDH). We and others detected 42 potentially pathogenic variants in D2HGDH of which 31 were missense. We developed functional studies to investigate the effect of missense variants on D-2-HGDH catalytic activity. Site-directed mutagenesis was used to introduce 31 missense variants in the pCMV5-D2HGDH expression vector. The wild type and missense variants were overexpressed in HEK293 cells. D-2-HGDH enzyme activity was evaluated based on the conversion of [ 2 H 4 ]D-2-HG to [ 2 H 4 ]2-ketoglutarate, which was subsequently converted into [ 2 H 4 ]L-glutamate and the latter quantified by LC-MS/MS. Eighteen variants resulted in almost complete ablation of D-2-HGDH activity and thus, should be considered pathogenic. The remaining 13 variants manifested residual activities ranging between 17% and 94% of control enzymatic activity. Our functional assay evaluating the effect of novel D2HGDH variants will be beneficial for the classification of missense variants and determination of pathogenicity.
L-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a rare neurometabolic disorder with autosomal recessive inheritance. The children are initially normal. In the second year of life a delay in unsupported walking, abnormal gait, speech delay or febrile convulsions form the presenting symptoms in most cases. In other patients no abnormalities are noted until learning disabilities become apparent during early school years. Over the years slowly progressive neurological dysfunction is noted, characterized predominantly by cerebellar ataxia with nystagmus, dysarthria, head titubation, trunk ataxia, dysmetria and intention tremor. Slow intellectual decline is noted in all patients. Frequently noted abnormalities are extrapyramidal signs such as dystonia and choreoathetosis, pyramidal signs, pseudobulbar signs, myoclonus, and macrocephaly. Seizures occur in the majority of the patients.
L-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L-2-HGA, MIM 236792) is a rare autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by psychomotor delay, cerebellar and extrapyramidal signs and subcortical leukoencephalopathy with basal ganglia and dentate nuclei involvement. Mutations in the gene L2HGDH ( C14ORF160/DURANIN/) have been identified as causative for L-2-HGA. A feature disproportionally associated with L-2-HGA is the development of malignant brain tumors. In our cohort of 40 patients with L-2-HGA, two developed medulloblastoma and glioblastoma multiforme during the course of the disease. Two missense mutations in two patients were identified in the L2HGDH gene in exon 3 (c.292C→T) and in exon 7 (c.887T→A). Both mutations were present in the homozygous state. Serial MR imaging findings as well as MR spectroscopy imaging is reported in a patient who developed glioblastoma multiforme.
Isocitrate dehydrogenases (IDHs) catalyze the oxidative decarboxylation of isocitric acid to α-ketoglutaric acid (αKG). Point mutations in IDH1 and IDH2 confer a neomorphic enzymatic activity: the reduction of αKG to D-2-hydroxyglutaric acid (2HG), which acts as an oncometabolite by inducing hypermethylation of histones and DNA. IDH1 mutations (predominantly R132H) have been found in 50-80% of grade II gliomas. To find potential IDH1-targeted therapeutics, we conducted a full small-molecule HTS and hit validation campaign using recombinant R132H IDH1. This campaign identified Compound 1, which belongs to a phenol-azole series, as a potent and selective inhibitor of mutant IDH1. We investigated the mode of inhibition of Compound 1 and a published IDH1 mutant inhibitor with a different chemical scaffold (Compound 2). Steady-state kinetics and biophysical studies showed that both inhibitors reversibly interact with both free and substrate-bound enzyme at an allosteric site. A crystal structure of Compound 1 complexed with R132H demonstrates binding of the inhibitor at the dimer interface. A competitive binding study showed that Compound 2 competes with Compound 1, suggesting that Compound 2 also binds at the dimer interface. This is contrary to a previously published statement that Compound 2 is a competitive inhibitor with respect to αKG. In cancer cell lines engineered to produce high levels of 2HG, both inhibitors penetrate cells efficiently and inhibit 2HG production with minimal cell toxicity. This study indicates that the dimer interface pocket is a druggable binding site for IDH1 inhibitors, and suggests that Compound 1 is a promising new starting point for future structure-based drug discovery efforts. Citation Format: Gejing Deng, Stuart Licht, Junqing Shen, Ming Yin, Jessica McManus, Patricia Gee, Tim He, Giang Gao, Bailin Zhang, Magali Mathieu, Alexey Rak, Olivier Bedel, Chaomei Shi, Stefan Gross, Dietmar Hoffmann, Eamonn Rooney, Aurelie Vassort, Walter Englaro, Yi Li, Dmitri Wiederschain, Vinod Patel, Francisco Adrian, Hong Cheng. Selective inhibition of mutant IDH1 via small molecule binding to the dimer interface. [abstract]. In: Proceedings of the 105th Annual Meeting of the American Association for Cancer Research; 2014 Apr 5-9; San Diego, CA. Philadelphia (PA): AACR; Cancer Res 2014;74(19 Suppl):Abstract nr 4746. doi:10.1158/1538-7445.AM2014-4746
Abstract 750 MHz 1 H NMR spectroscopy has been used to characterise in detail the abnormal low molecular weight metabolites of urine from two patients with inborn errors of metabolism. One case of the rare condition 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria has been examined. There is at present no rapid routine method to detect this genetic defect, although NMR spectroscopy of urine is shown to provide a distinctive pattern of resonances. Assignment of a number of prominent urinary metabolites not normally seen in control urine could be made on the basis of their known NMR spectral parameters including the diagnostic marker 2-hydroxyglutaric acid, which served to confirm the condition. In addition, 750 MHz 1 H NMR spectroscopy has been used to characterise further the abnormal metabolic profile of urine from a patient with maple syrup urine disease. This abnormality arises from a defect in branched chain keto-acid decarboxylase activity and results in a build up in the urine of high levels of branched chain oxo- and hydroxy-acids resulting from altered metabolism of the branched chain amino acids, valine, leucine and isoleucine. A number of previously undetected abnormal metabolites have been identified through the use of one-dimensional and two-dimensional J-resolved and COSY 750 MHz 1 H NMR spectroscopy, including ethanol, 2-hydroxy-isovalerate, 2,3-dihydroxy-valerate, 2-oxo-3-methyl- n -valerate and 2-oxo-isocaproate. NMR spectroscopy of urine, particularly when combined with automatic data reduction and computer pattern recognition using a combination of biochemical markers, promises to provide an efficient alternative to other techniques for the diagnosis of inborn errors of metabolism.
Escherichia coli serA-encoded 3-phosphoglycerate (3PG) dehydrogenase catalyzes the first step of the major phosphorylated pathway of L-serine (Ser) biosynthesis. The SerA enzyme is evolutionarily related to the pdxB gene product, 4-phosphoerythronate dehydrogenase, which catalyzes the second step in one branch of pyridoxal 5'-phosphate coenzyme biosynthesis. Both the Ser and pyridoxal 5'-phosphate biosynthetic pathways use the serC(pdxF)-encoded transaminase in their next steps. In an analysis of these parallel pathways, we attempted to couple the transaminase and dehydrogenase reactions in the reverse direction. Unexpectedly, we found that the SerA enzyme catalyzes a previously undetected reduction of alpha-ketoglutarate (alpha KG) to 2-hydroxyglutaric acid (HGA). Numerous criteria ruled out the possibility that this SerA alpha KG reductase activity was caused by contamination in the substrate or purified enzyme preparations. HGA was confirmed as the product of the SerA alpha KG reductase reaction by thin-layer chromatography and by enzyme assays showing that both the D- and L-isomers of HGA were substrates for the reverse (dehydrogenase) reaction. Detailed steady-state kinetic analyses showed that alpha KG reduction (apparent Michaelis-Menten constant [Km(app)] = 88 microM; apparent catalytic constant [kcat(app)] = 33.3 s-1) and 3-phosphohydroxypyruvate reduction (Km(app) = 3.2 microM; kcatapp = 27.8 s-1), which is the reverse reaction of 3PG oxidation, were the major in vitro activities of the SerA enzyme. The SerA alpha KG reductase was inhibited by Ser, D-HGA, 3PG, and glycine (Gly), whereas the D-HGA dehydrogenase was inhibited by Ser, alpha KG, 3-phosphohydroxypyruvate, and Gly. The implications of these findings for the regulation of Ser biosynthesis, the recycling of NADH, and the enzymology of 2-hydroxyacid dehydrogenases are discussed. Since the same pathway of Ser biosynthesis seems to be present in all organisms, these results suggest that a mutation in the human SerA homolog may contribute to the neurometabolic diseases D- and L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, which lead to the accumulation of D-HGA and L-HGA, respectively.
Inherited metabolic disorders are the cause of a small but significant number of sudden unexpected deaths in infancy. We report a girl who suddenly died at 11 months of age, during an intercurrent illness. Autopsy showed spongiform lesions in the subcortical white matter, in the basal ganglia, and in the dentate nuclei. Investigations in an older sister with developmental delay, ataxia, and tremor revealed l-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria and subcortical white matter changes with hyperintensity of the basal ganglia and dentate nuclei at brain magnetic resonance imaging. Both children were homozygous for a splice site mutation in the L2HGDH gene. Sudden death has not been reported in association with l-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria so far, but since this inborn error of metabolism is potentially treatable, early diagnosis may be important.
Combined D-2- and L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (D/L-2-HGA) is a devastating neurometabolic disorder, usually lethal in the first years of life. Autosomal recessive mutations in the SLC25A1 gene, which encodes the mitochondrial citrate carrier (CIC), were previously detected in patients affected with combined D/L-2-HGA. We showed that transfection of deficient fibroblasts with wild-type SLC25A1 restored citrate efflux and decreased intracellular 2-hydroxyglutarate levels, confirming that deficient CIC is the cause of D/L-2-HGA. We developed and implemented a functional assay and applied it to all 17 missense variants detected in a total of 26 CIC-deficient patients, including eight novel cases, showing reduced activities of varying degrees. In addition, we analyzed the importance of residues affected by these missense variants using our existing scoring system. This allowed not only a clinical and biochemical overview of the D/L-2-HGA patients but also phenotype–genotype correlation studies.
Abstract Inherited metabolic disorders are the cause of a small but significant number of sudden unexpected deaths in infancy. We report a girl who suddenly died at 11 months of age, during an intercurrent illness. Autopsy showed spongiform lesions in the subcortical white matter, in the basal ganglia, and in the dentate nuclei. Investigations in an older sister with developmental delay, ataxia, and tremor revealed L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria and subcortical white matter changes with hyperintensity of the basal ganglia and dentate nuclei at brain magnetic resonance imaging. Both children were homozygous for a splice site mutation in the L2HGDH gene. Sudden death has not been reported in association with L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria so far, but since this inborn error of metabolism is potentially treatable, early diagnosis may be important.
L-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria (OMIM 236792) is an inborn error of metabolism characterized by the accumulation of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid in body fluids [3, 13] . Since the first description of L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria in 1980 [13] , less than 100 cases have been reported [2, 4, 5, 6, 8-11, 14-16, 18, 20, 21, 23, 26, 27, 29, 38, 41-45, 47, 48] . Common clinical features include developmental delay, macrocephaly, ataxia, pyramidal signs, and seizures. The clinical course is usually slowly progressive, without acute phases of neurological deterioration. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) shows bilateral involvement of the pallidum, the dentate nuclei, and subcortical white matter [1, 8, 28, [35] [36] [37] . Neuropathology descriptions mainly report spongiosis of the subcortical white matter with cystic cavitations [20, 35] , diffuse astrocytosis predominating in the cerebral and cerebellar white matter [5] , gliosis, and neuronal loss in the dentate nuclei [5, 35] . Interestingly, brain tumors seem to occur with increased frequency in L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria and represent a possible cause of death [2, 19, 24, 45] ; the mechanism of this unusual phenomenon is unclear. A very severe form of L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria with neonatal death has been reported by Chen and coauthors [5] . Otherwise, no sudden infant death has been reported in L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria so far, and this disorder is not listed among the several inherited metabolic disorders associated with sudden unexpected death in infancy (SUDI) [7, 25] . This paper describes two siblings with L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, presenting with two drastically different clinical courses, and reports the first instance of association of this inborn error of metabolism with SUDI.
Abstract Combined D-2-and L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (D/L-2-HGA) is a devastating neurometabolic disorder, usually lethal in the first years of life. Autosomal recessive mutations in the SLC25A1 gene, which encodes the mitochondrial citrate carrier (CIC), were previously detected in patients affected with combined D/L-2-HGA. We showed that transfection of deficient fibroblasts with wild-type SLC25A1 restored citrate efflux and decreased intracellular 2-hydroxyglutarate levels, confirming that deficient CIC is the cause of D/L-2-HGA. We developed and implemented a functional assay and applied it to Luigi Palmieri and Gajja S. Salomons contributed equally to this work. all 17 missense variants detected in a total of 26 CIC-deficient patients, including eight novel cases, showing reduced activities of varying degrees. In addition, we analyzed the importance of residues affected by these missense variants using our existing scoring system. This allowed not only a clinical and biochemical overview of the D/L-2-HGA patients but also phenotypegenotype correlation studies.
Combined D-2-and L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (D/L-2-HGA; OMIM #615182) was described as the third variant of 2-HGA, clinically manifesting a severe phenotype with neonatal encephalopathy, respiratory insufficiency, developmental delay, hypotonia, and early death (Muntau et al. 2000) . This condition is biochemically characterized by accumulation of both enantiomers of 2-hydroxyglutaric acid (2-HG), with a more pronounced D-2-HG increase in bodily fluids. Recessive mutations in the gene SLC25A1 (NM_005984) are the underlying genetic cause of D/L-2-HGA (Edvardson et al. 2013; Nota et al. 2013 ). SLC25A1, located on chromosome 22q11, encodes for the mitochondrial citrate carrier SLC25A1 (CIC). This protein belongs to the SLC25 family of mitochondrial carriers (MC), which are mainly localized in the inner mitochondrial membrane and are responsible for the trafficking of a variety of metabolites (Palmieri 2013; Palmieri and Monné 2016) . All SLC25 members are characterized by a tripartite structure and topologically by six transmembrane α-helices (Klingenberg 1989; Kaplan et al. 1993; Palmieri 2013) .
Somatic mutations of isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 (IDH1) at R132 are frequently found in certain cancers such as glioma. With losing the activity of wild-type IDH1, the R132H and R132C mutant proteins can reduce α-ketoglutaric acid (α-KG) to d-2-hydroxyglutaric acid (D2HG). The resulting high concentration of D2HG inhibits many α-KG-dependent dioxygenases, including histone demethylases, to cause broad histone hypermethylation. These aberrant epigenetic changes are responsible for the initiation of these cancers. We report the synthesis, structure-activity relationships, enzyme kinetics, and binding thermodynamics of a novel series of 2-thiohydantoin and related compounds, among which several compounds are potent inhibitors of mutant IDH1 with Ki as low as 420 nM. X-ray crystal structures of IDH1(R132H) in complex with two inhibitors are reported, showing their inhibitor-protein interactions. These compounds can decrease the cellular concentration of D2HG, reduce the levels of histone methylation, and suppress the proliferation of stem-like cancer cells in BT142 glioma with IDH1 R132H mutation.
We performed molecular, enzyme, and metabolic studies in 50 patients with D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (D-2-HGA) who accumulated D-2-hydroxyglutarate (D-2-HG) in physiological fluids. Presumed pathogenic mutations were detected in 24 of 50 patients in the D-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase (D2HGDH) gene, which encodes D-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase (D-2-HGDH). Enzyme assay Of D-2-HGDH confirmed that all patients with mutations had impaired enzyme activity, whereas patients with D-2-HGA whose enzyme activity was normal did not have mutations. Significantly lower D-2-HG concentrations in body fluids were observed in mutation-positive D-2-HGA patients than in mutation-negative patients. These results imply that multiple genetic loci may be associated with hyperexcretion of D-2-HG. Accordingly, we suggest a new classification: D-2-HGA Type I associates with D-2-HGDH deficiency, whereas idiopathic D-2-HGA manifests with normal D-2-HGDH activity and higher D-2-HG levels in body fluids compared with Type I patients. It remains possible that several classifications for idiopathic D-2-HGA patients with diverse genetic loci will be revealed in future studies. Hum Mutat 31:279-283, 2010. (C) 2009 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
3-Alkyl-1,2-cyclopentanediones 1 are transformed into 2-alkyl-2-hydroxyglutaric acid γ-lactones 3 in up to 83% isolated yields and up to 96% ee, affording a simple access to many bioactive compounds, including diacylglycerol lactones (DAG-lactones).
In some metabolic diseases, a known specific chiral isomer is excreted to urine or blood and, thus, identification of its absolute configuration is critical to determining the course of diagnostic and therapeutic management (e.g., L-2-hydroxy glutaric aciduria). Chiral organic acids extracted from acidified urine with diethyl ether were subjected to (-)-menthylation or (S)-(+)-3-methyl-2-butylation with subsequent O-trifluoroacylation to form volatile diastereomeric esters. Each enantiomer was unequivocally discriminated with achiral dual columns (nonpolar and medium-polar columns) cooperating with retention index (I) library matching. D, L-lactic acid, D, L-2-hydroxybutyric acid, D, L-3-hydroxybutyric acid, and D, L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid were correctly identified by chiral separation from the urine samples of ten patients with various metabolic disorders. Achiral simple dual column gas chromatography provided adequate sensitivity for the separation of volatile diastereomeric derivatives. This approach m...
Isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH) is a key rate-limiting enzyme in the Krebs cycle that plays an important role in energy metabolism. In recent years, it has been found that IDH mutations are closely related to the occurrence and development of glioma, and it is a notable potential therapeutic target. First, IDH mutations can produce high levels of 2-hydroxyglutaric acid (2-HG), thereby inhibiting glioma stem cell differentiation. At the same time, IDH mutations can upregulate vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) to promote the formation of the tumour microenvironment. In addition, IDH mutations can also induce high levels of hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α) to promote glioma invasion. Ultimately, these changes will lead to the development of glioma. Currently, a large number of IDH inhibitors and vaccines have entered clinical trials, representing progress in the treatment of glioma patients.
ABSTRACT: Somatic mutations of isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 (IDH1) at R132 are frequently found in certain cancers such as glioma. With losing the activity of wild-type IDH1, the R132H and R132C mutant proteins can reduce α-ketoglutaric acid (α-KG) to D-2-hydroxyglutaric acid (D2HG). The resulting high concentration of D2HG inhibits many α-KG-dependent dioxygenases, including histone demethylases, to cause broad histone hypermethylation. These aberrant epigenetic changes are responsible for the initiation of these cancers. We report the synthesis, structure−activity relationships, enzyme kinetics, and binding thermodynamics of a novel series of 2-thiohydantoin and related compounds, among which several compounds are potent inhibitors of mutant IDH1 with K i as low as 420 nM. X-ray crystal structures of IDH1(R132H) in complex with two inhibitors are reported, showing their inhibitor−protein interactions. These compounds can decrease the cellular concentration of D2HG, reduce the levels of histone methylation, and suppress the proliferation of stem-like cancer cells in BT142 glioma with IDH1 R132H mutation.
2-HYDROXYGLUTARIC aciduria (2-HGA) represents a group of metabolic disorders that cause progressive damage to the brain. These disorders can be classified into two groups, D-2-HGA and L-2-HGA, based on the presence of functional stereoisomers of hydroxygluatric acid. The two stereoisomers have
Normal Growth in PKU Patients Under Low-Protein Diet in a Single-Center Cross-Sectional Study -- Serial Magnetic Resonance Imaging and 1H-Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy in GABA Transaminase Deficiency: A Case Report.-Metabolomics Profile in ABAT Deficiency Pre- and Post-treatment -- Cognitive and Behavioural Outcomes of Paediatric Liver Transplantation for Ornithine Transcarbamylase Deficiency -- Muscle Weakness, Cardiomyopathy, and L-2-Hydroxyglutaric Aciduria Associated with a Novel Recessive SLC25A4 Mutation -- Pentosan Polysulfate Treatment of Mucopolysaccharidosis Type IIIA Mice -- Serum Amino Acid Profiling in Citrin-Deficient Children Exhibiting Normal Liver Function During the Apparently Healthy Period -- Severe Leukoencephalopathy with Clinical Recovery Caused by Recessive BOLA3 Mutations -- Neonatal Onset Interstitial Lung Disease as a Primary Presenting Manifestation of Mucopolysaccharidosis Type I -- A Middle Eastern Founder Mutation Expands the Genotypic and Phenotypic Spectrum of Mitochondrial MICU1 Deficiency: A Report of 13 Patients -- Disruption of the Responsible Gene in a Phosphoglucomutase 1 Deficiency Patient by Homozygous Chromosomal Inversion -- Evaluation of Disease Lesions in the Developing Canine MPS IIIA Brain -- Extrapolation of Variant Phase in Mitochondrial Short-Chain Enoyl-CoA Hydratase (ECHS1) Deficiency -- RFT1-CDG: Absence of Epilepsy and Deafness in Two Patients with Novel Pathogenic Variants -- Short-Term Administration of Mycophenolate Is Well-Tolerated in CLN3 Disease (Juvenile Neuronal Ceroid Lipofuscinosis). .
It is traditionally assumed that enzymes of intermediary metabolism are extremely specific and that this is sufficient to prevent the production of useless and/or toxic side-products. Recent work indicates that this statement is not entirely correct. In reality, enzymes are not strictly specific, they often display weak side activities on intracellular metabolites (substrate promiscuity) that resemble their physiological substrate or slowly catalyze abnormal reactions on their physiological substrate (catalytic promiscuity). They thereby produce non-classical metabolites that are not efficiently metabolized by conventional enzymes. In an increasing number of cases, metabolite repair enzymes are being discovered that serve to eliminate these non-classical metabolites and prevent their accumulation. Metabolite repair enzymes also eliminate non-classical metabolites that are formed through spontaneous (i.e., not enzyme-catalyzed) reactions. Importantly, genetic deficiencies in several metabolite repair enzymes lead to 'inborn errors of metabolite repair', such as L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, 'ubiquitous glucose-6-phosphatase' (G6PC3) deficiency, the neutropenia present in Glycogen Storage Disease type Ib or defects in the enzymes that repair the hydrated forms of NADH or NADPH. Metabolite repair defects may be difficult to identify as such, because the mutated enzymes are non-classical enzymes that act on non-classical metabolites, which in some cases accumulate only inside the cells, and at rather low, yet toxic, concentrations. It is therefore likely that many additional metabolite repair enzymes remain to be discovered and that many diseases of metabolite repair still await elucidation. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
It is traditionally assumed that enzymes of intermediary metabolism are extremely specific and that this is sufficient to prevent the production of useless and/or toxic side-products. Recent work indicates that this statement is not entirely correct. In reality, enzymes are not strictly specific, they often display weak side activities on intracellular metabolites (substrate promiscuity) that resemble their physiological substrate or slowly catalyse abnormal reactions on their physiological substrate (catalytic promiscuity). They thereby produce non-classical metabolites that are not efficiently metabolised by conventional enzymes. In an increasing number of cases, metabolite repair enzymes are being discovered that serve to eliminate these non-classical metabolites and prevent their accumulation. Metabolite repair enzymes also eliminate non-classical metabolites that are formed through spontaneous (ie, not enzyme-catalysed) reactions. Importantly, genetic deficiencies in several metabolite repair enzymes lead to 'inborn errors of metabolite repair', such as L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, 'ubiquitous glucose-6-phosphatase' (G6PC3) deficiency, the neutropenia present in Glycogen Storage Disease type Ib or defects in the enzymes that repair the hydrated forms of NADH or NADPH. Metabolite repair defects may be difficult to identify as such, because the mutated enzymes are non-classical enzymes that act on nonclassical metabolites, which in some cases accumulate only inside the cells, and at rather low, yet toxic, concentrations. It is therefore likely that many additional metabolite repair enzymes remain to be discovered and that many diseases of metabolite repair still await elucidation.
1,5-anhydroglucitol-6-phosphate, D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, enzyme promiscuity, G6PC3, G6PT, galactose, inborn errors of metabolism, metabolite repair, NADP(H)X, neutropenia, PGM1, SGLT2 inhibitor, UGP2
Determination of the level and absolute configuration of 2-hydroxyglutaric acid in a patient's urine is a method of diagnosing two metabolic diseases. Such a determination can be done with the aid of NMR spectroscopic methods. In this paper the careful interpretation of 1H and 13C NMR spectra of this metabolite and its lactone measured under conditions used in biomedical assays is reported. The 1H chemical shifts and spin–spin coupling constants were derived using the total lineshape analysis method. Copyright © 2002 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Patients affected by L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L-2-HGA) are biochemically characterized by elevated L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid (L-2-HG) concentrations in cerebrospinal fluid, plasma, and urine due to a blockage in the conversion of L-2-HG to α-ketoglutaric acid. Neurological symptoms associated with basal ganglia and cerebelar abnormalities whose pathophysiology is still unknown are typical of this neurometabolic disorder. In the present study we evaluated the early effects (30min after injection) of an acute in vivo intrastriatal and intracerebellar L-2-HG administration on redox homeostasis in rat striatum and cerebellum, respectively. Histological analyses of these brain structures were also carried out 7 days after L-2-HG treatment (long-term effects). L-2-HG significantly decreased the concentrations of reduced (GSH) and total glutathione (tGS), as well as of glutathione peroxidase (GPx) and reductase (GR) activities, but did not change the activities of superoxide dismutase and catalase in striatum. Furthermore, the concentrations of oxidized glutathione (GSSG) and malondialdehyde (MDA), as well as 2',7'-dichlorofluorescein (DCFH) oxidation and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) production, were increased, whereas carbonyl formation and nitrate plus nitrite concentrations were not altered by L-2-HG injection. It was also found that the melatonin, ascorbic acid plus α-tocopherol, and creatine totally prevented most of these effects, whereas N-acetylcysteine, the noncompetitive glutamate NMDA antagonist MK-801, and the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor L-NAME were not able to normalize the redox alterations elicited by L-2-HG in striatum. L-2-HG intracerebellar injection similarly provoked a decrease of antioxidant defenses (GSH, tGS, GPx, and GR) and an increase of the concentrations of GSSG, MDA, and H2O2 in cerebellum. These results strongly indicate that the major accumulating metabolite in L-2-HGA induce oxidative stress by decreasing the antioxidant defenses and enhancing reactive oxygen species in striatum and cerebellum of adolescent rats. Regarding the histopathological findings, L-2-HG caused intense vacuolation, lymphocyte and macrophage infiltrates, eosinophilic granular bodies, and necrosis in striatum. Immunohistochemistry revealed that L-2-HG treatment provoked an increase of GFAP and a decrease of NeuN immunostaining, indicating reactive astroglyosis and reduction of neuronal population, respectively, in striatum. Similar macrophage infiltrates, associated with less intense vacuolation and lymphocytic infiltration, were observed in cerebellum. However, we did not observe necrosis, eosinophilic granular bodies, and alteration of GFAP and NeuN content in L-2-HG-teated cerebellum. From the biochemical and histological findings, it is presumed that L-2-HG provokes striatal and cerebellar damage in vivo possibly through oxidative stress induction. Therefore, we postulate that antioxidants may serve as adjuvant therapy allied to the current treatment based on a protein-restricted diet and riboflavin and L-carnitine supplementation in patients affected by L-2-HGA.
Neurological manifestations are very common in organic acid disorders and sometimes the leading and/or presenting feature [1]. One group presents exclusively with characteristic (progressive) neurological symptoms of ataxia, myoclonus, extrapyramidal symptoms, metabolic stroke, and macrocephaly [2]. These “cerebral” organic acid disorders include glutaric aciduria type I, 2-oxoglutaric aciduria, L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, and mevalonic aciduria. Strikingly, in all these disorders the pathological compound is a five-carbon organic acid.
D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a rare metabolic disorder, first reported in 1980, and does not yet have a clinically specific presentation pattern nor any specific treatment regime. We report a girl born with this uncommon metabolic disorder, who, at the age of 12 months, was also found to have a severe crippling form of skeletal dysplasia, spondyloenchondromatosis.
The inherited neurometabolic disease d-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria is complicated by progressive neurodegeneration of vulnerable brain regions during infancy and early childhood, frequently presenting with hypotonia, epilepsy and psychomotor retardation. Here, we report that the pathogenetic role of the endogenously accumulating metabolite d-2-hydroxyglutarate (D-2), which is structurally similar to the excitatory amino acid glutamate, is mediated by at least three mechanisms. (i) D-2-induced excitotoxic cell damage in primary neuronal cultures from chick and rat involved N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor activation. Indeed, D-2 activated recombinant NMDA receptors (NR1/NR2A, NR1/NR2B) but not recombinant alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole (AMPA) receptors in HEK293 cells. (ii) Fluorescence microscopy using fura-2 as a calcium indicator and the oxidant-sensitive dye dihydrorhodamine-123 revealed that D-2 disturbed intracellular calcium homeostasis and elicited the generation of reactive oxygen species. (iii) D-2 reduced complex V (ATP synthase) activity of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, reflecting an impaired energy metabolism due to inhibition of ATP synthesis but without affecting the electron-transferring complexes I-IV. Thus, D-2 stimulates neurodegeneration by mechanisms well-known for glutamate, NMDA or mitochondrial toxins. In conclusion, excitotoxicity contributes to the neuropathology of d-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, highlighting new neuroprotective strategies.
Background:l-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a rare progressive neurometabolic disorder of childhood inherited as an autosomal recessive trait. Urine organic-acid screening is necessary for its diagnosis. Although it is a disorder of childhood, recently adult cases have been reported. Cases:Here we report 4 adult patients in whom diagnoses were established in adulthood. These patients had some interesting features. First, their diagnoses were delayed until adulthood because of mild clinical symptoms. In such cases, the typical MRI findings are the best diagnostic clue for l-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria. Second, there was a correlation between the severity of the clinical course and the extent of MRI findings. The cerebral white-matter lesions were diffuse and confluent on the MRI of 3 of the 4 patients, who also experienced a rapidly progressive clinical decline. Third, there were different clinical presentations even within the same family. Conclusions:For the evaluation of patients with symptoms referable to cerebellar, pyramidal, extrapyramidal, or cognitive impairment as well as seizures associated with subcortical white-matter and symmetrical dentate nuclei and basal ganglia involvement on MRI, urine organic acid analysis should be included in the evaluation, regardless of patient's age.
Excretion of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid (L-2HG) was first reported in 1980 (Duran et al 1980) in a Moroccan boy with mental and motor retardation, and in 1992 there was a further report of 8 patients (including the original one) who had L-2HG and exhibited developmental delay, cereballar signs and leukodystrophy (Barth et al 1992). We report three Australian patients with L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria whose clinical picture reinforces the emerging phenotype of this degenerative disorder of unknown pathogenesis
Human complex II is a multimeric enzyme composed of four subunits: a flavoprotein (SDHA), an iron-sulphur subunit (SDHB), and two proteins (SDHC and SDHD) that is anchored to the inner mitochondrial membrane. Complex II carries electrons to the ubiquinone pool and constitutes the second essential oxidation-reduction reaction of the respiratory chain. Moreover, SDHA and SDHB subunits compose the active enzyme succinate dehydrogenase that oxidizes succinate to fumarate in the Krebs cycle [35] . Complex II has flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD) as a prosthetic group that is covalently anchored to the SDHA subunit. FAD also acts as a cofactor to the ETF complex. FAD and flavin mononucleotide (FMN) are cofactors derived from riboflavin, a water-soluble vitamin that have been used in the treatment of several mitochondrial disorders such as complex I deficiency [36] , short-chain acyl coenzyme A dehydrogenase (SCAD) [37] , mitochondrial encephalomyopathy with lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes (MELAS) syndrome [38] , L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria [39] , and in complex II deficiency [40] .
L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a rare and novel autosomal recessive inherited neurometabolic disorder. Since its first description by Duran in 1980, less than 100 cases have so far been reported. Occurring mostly in childhood, it is characterized by slowly progressive neurological dysfunction with cerebellar ataxia, pyramidal signs, intellectual decline, seizure, and extrapyramidal symptoms. MRI scanning is highly characteristic and screening for organic acid (L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid) in urine, serum, and cerebrospinal fluid is diagnostic. We investigated six Iranian children, aged 4, 14, 16, and 16 years, (the last one had two affected brothers and both of them died of similar illness at the ages of 20 and 22), by urinary organic acids assay and MRI scanning with suspicion of this rare disorder. Symptoms were suspicious for one of the leukoencephalopathies accompanied by macrocephaly. Affected cases were evaluated because of mild to moderate psychomotor retardation and regression. Head circumferences were above 2 standard deviations. Urine levels of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid were strongly increased. MRI scanning of the brain showed hyperintense signal on T2W images of the subcortical white matter and basal ganglia in all of them. Because of its inheritance pattern (autosomal recessive) and the high rate of consanguineous marriages in Iran, the prevalence of this disorder might be high among the mentally-handicapped patients, especially those with macrocephaly. Therefore, this entity should be considered in the differential diagnosis of mentally-retarded patients with macrocephaly.
Enzymes of intermediary metabolism are less specific than what is usually assumed: they often act on metabolites that are not their 'true' substrate, making abnormal metabolites that may be deleterious if they accumulate. Some of these abnormal metabolites are reconverted to normal metabolites by repair enzymes, which play therefore a role akin to the proofreading activities of DNA polymerases and aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases. An illustrative example of such repair enzymes is L-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase, which eliminates a metabolite abnormally made by a Krebs cycle enzyme. Mutations in L-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase lead to L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, a leukoencephalopathy. Other examples are the epimerase and the ATP-dependent dehydratase that repair hydrated forms of NADH and NADPH; ethylmalonyl-CoA decarboxylase, which eliminates an abnormal metabolite formed by acetyl-CoA carboxylase, an enzyme of fatty acid synthesis; L-pipecolate oxidase, which repairs a metabolite formed by a side activity of an enzyme of L-proline biosynthesis. Metabolite proofreading enzymes are likely quite common, but most of them are still unidentified. A defect in these enzymes may account for new metabolic disorders.
High-level quantum chemistry calculations have been used to examine the catalytic reactions of adenosylcobalamin-dependent glutamate mutase (GM) with the natural substrate (S)-glutamic acid. We have also examined the rearrangement of (S)-2-hydroxyglutaric acid, (S)-2-thiolglutaric acid, and 2-ketoglutaric acid, all of which have previously been shown to react as substrates or inhibitors of the enzyme. Our calculations support the notion that the 100-fold difference in kcat between glutamate and 2-hydroxyglutarate is associated with the relatively high energy of the glycolyl radical intermediate compared with the glycyl radical. More generally, calculations of radical stabilization energies for a variety of substituted glycyl radical analogues indicate that modifications at the radical center can profoundly affect the relative stability of the resulting radical, leading to important mechanistic consequences. We find that the formation of a thioglycolyl radical, derived from (S)-2-thiolglutaric acid, is highly dependent on the protonation state of sulfur. The neutral radical is found to be of stability similar to that of the glycolyl radical, whereas the S- form of the thioglycolyl radical is much more stable, thus providing a rationalization for the inhibition of the enzyme by the substrate analogue 2-thiolglutarate. Two possible rearrangement pathways have been examined for the reaction of GM with 2-ketoglutaric acid, for which previous experiments had suggested no rearrangement took place. The fragmentation-recombination pathway is associated with a fragmentation step that is very endothermic (by 102.2 kJ mol-1). In contrast, the addition-elimination pathway has significantly lower energy requirements. An alternative possibility, namely, that 2-ketoglutaric acid is bound in its hydrated form, 2,2-dihydroxyglutaric acid, also leads to a pathway with relatively low energy requirements, suggesting that some rearrangement might be expected under such circumstances.
Spondyloenchondromatosis (SEM) is a rare skeletal dysplasia which presents with multiple enchondromata in the metaphyses of the long bones associated with dysplastic vertebral bodies. It is probably heterogeneous. We have investigated and documented a male infant in South Africa with spondyloenchondromatosis and persistent D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (D2HA). D2HA is a neurometabolic disorder whose enzymatic basis is still undefined. A girl in England with a similar clinical, radiological and biochemical phenotype has previously been reported by Talkhani et al. [(2000). Skel Radiol 7:215-2921]. There is at present a lack of a plausible pathogenetic relationship between the two components of the disorder but a contiguous gene syndrome or a pleiotropic gene could be considered. Whatever the underlying mechanism this case report confirms its nosological entity.
Treatn~erit with oral L-carnitine resulted in rapid cllriical Improvnlerit, riormal~zatlon of echocardloqraphic variables and of the mvo- Oral tetrahydrobiopterin (THB) load has been recommended for the recognition of TlIB deficiency among hyperphenylalaninemic infants. In some patients with dihydropteridine reductnse (DlIPR) deficiency, the test has been reported to be ineffective. To explore such a resistance to THB, intestinalabsorp tion oC pteridines was investigated . In 10 control children the maximum biopterin (B) serum value was observed 4 hours after oral administration of 5 mgfkg THB. A wide range of B increase (14.6-190.5 nmolfl, mean : 73.2 nmolfl) was noted, suggesting a great variation in the intestinal absorption of THB. A constant rate intestinal perfusion study using a double lumen tube and polyethylene glycol 4000 as non absorbable marker was performed in 8 control infants and 1 adult.Pteridines were separated after acid and alcaline oxydation by ion-exchange HPLC chromatography. THB,B, and pterin mean absorption rates were as follows : THB = 14% (n=9), B=3% (n=3), pterin = 80 X (n=3). These results show a very low intestinal absorption of THB and B in man, and suggest the limiting role of the lateral chain 6-dihydroxypropyl, present in THB and B, and absent in pterin. They could explain the resistance to TllB during the oral loading test in DllPR deficient patients. Two daughters of related Turkish parents were investigated at the ages of 11 8/12 and 16 8/12 years for severe neurologic disease. This was characterised by pronounced psychomotor retardation, ataxia, dysmetria, dystonia and choreiform movements. Both girls were moderately obese and showed macrocephaly without dysmorphy. Laboratory investigation revealed increased protidorhachia (120 and 47 mg/dl), and increased cerebrospinal fluid lysine (80 and 50 pM; nl 10-25) and urinary 2-hydroxyglutaric acid (400-500 pM/g creatinine; nl < 1). Plasma and urinary lysine as well as cerebrospinal fluid 2-hydroxyglutaric acid were normal except for a slightly increased plasma lysine in one patieqt (270 rU; nl 60-230). Electromyography and nerve conduction velocity were normal. Computerised tomography of the brain was suggestive of leukodystrophy. Conclusion: this seems to be a previously unreported hereditary metabolic disorder. Its basic defect remains to be determined. This study was undertaken to investigate the molecular basis of the two different clinical phenotypes (acute and chronic forms) of type 1 tyrosinemia (fumarylacetoacetase deficiency). Fumarylacetoacetase (FAA) was isolated from beef liver and antibodies raised in rabbits. Analysis of fibroblasts extracts by immunoblotting showed the absence of cross-reacting material in cells from acute patients and reduced amounts in cells from chronic patients. Fibroblasts from controls nd from both acute and chronic patients were pulselabeled with 3'S-methionine followed by a chase of 1-4 days.
AIM ::: To evaluate the genetic, congenital and metabolic disorders which were detected concurrently with primitive neuroectodermal tumors (PNET) of the central nervous system in children. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Medical records of 1030 children who were admitted to our department with diagnosis of brain tumor between 1975 and 2005 were reviewed retrospectively. Medulloblastoma and supratentorial PNETs were detected in 289 patients. They were reviewed for associated metabolic conditions, genetic and congenital defects. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: One of the following conditions were detected in 10 patients with medulloblastoma and supratentorial PNETs: Neurofibromatosis type 1, Gorlin syndrome, juvenile polyposis coli, cancer prone syndrome of total premature chromatid separation and Fanconi anemia, bilateral retinoblastoma, L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, Gilbert syndrome, gray platelet syndrome, cleft lip-palate and left renal agenesis. In the patients with multiple malignant diseases, cancer prone syndrome of total premature chromatid separation and Fanconi anemia, Gorlin syndrome and juvenile polyposis coli were diagnosed after diagnosis of the malignant tumors. Medulloblastoma was the first manifestation in the case with Gorlin syndrome. In case with retinoblastoma, pineal PNET was detected 2 months after diagnosis of retinoblastoma. Cleft lip-palate and L-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria were detected previously in the patients before their brain tumors whereas Gray platelet, Gilbert syndrome and left renal agenesis were diagnosed during treatment of medulloblastoma. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Associated genetic, metabolic and congenital conditions were detected in 3.5% of the cases. Thus the patients with PNET should be followed for these defects.
Proceedings: AACR Annual Meeting 2014; April 5-9, 2014; San Diego, CA ::: ::: A single amino acid substitution, R140Q, in isocitrate dehydrogenase 2 (IDH2) confers a novel enzymatic activity that converts α-ketoglutarate (αKG) to D-2-hydroxyglutarate (D-2-HG). This gain-of-function mutation has been identified in patients with type II D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (D-2-HGA), a rare and severe neurometabolic disorder that presents with a range of clinical findings, including seizures, hypotonia, developmental delay, cardiomyopathy, dysmorphic features and early death. There are no effective therapies for this inherited autosomal dominant disease. Here, we report the generation and characterization of a mouse genetic model that recapitulates key features of type II D-2-HGA. A single amino acid replacement, R140Q, was introduced via homologous recombination into the endogenous mouse IDH2 gene locus, to create heterozygous IDH2(R140Q) knock-in (KI) mice. These KI mice produce significantly elevated levels of D-2-HG in all tissues tested, and exhibit multiple defects consistent with symptoms from D-2-HGA patients, including early mortality, brain lesions, and cardiac hypertrophy. Echocardiogram reveals impaired systolic function with a diffusely hypokinetic left ventricle and low ejection fraction. ::: ::: The IDH2(R140Q) knock-in mouse model provides a valuable tool to elucidate the underlying disease mechanism of D-2-HGA and to evaluate ways to mitigate the disease. ::: ::: Citation Format: Fang Wang, Jeremy Travins, Zhizhong Lin, Lee Silverman, Yue Chen, Yuxuan Lu, Hua Yang, Michael Su, Yong Cang, Kate Ellwood-Yen, Shengfang Jin. IDH2(R140Q) knock-in mouse recapitulating human type II D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. [abstract]. In: Proceedings of the 105th Annual Meeting of the American Association for Cancer Research; 2014 Apr 5-9; San Diego, CA. Philadelphia (PA): AACR; Cancer Res 2014;74(19 Suppl):Abstract nr 963. doi:10.1158/1538-7445.AM2014-963
D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria (D-2-HGA) is a very rare autosomal recessive metabolic disorder that has recently been associated with mutations in the D-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase gene. The biochemical phenotype of D-2-HGA is defined by the accumulation of abnormal amounts of D-2-hydroxyglutarate in cerebrospinal fluid, blood, and urine while the clinical phenotype can vary from a severe epileptic encephalopathy to normal. The basis for this phenotypic variation is not well-defined. We report a set of 412-year-old monozygotic (MZ) female twins with D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria who are shown to be compound heterozygotes for c.326-327dupTC, p.Glu110ArgfsX19, and c.1123G-->T, p.Asp375Tyr mutations in the D-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase gene, but who have remarkably different clinical phenotypes. One twin presented with multiple congenital anomalies, severe developmental delay, and abnormal neuroradiological findings, while the other had normal neurocognitive and neuroradiological phenotypes, without concomitant congenital abnormalities. Monozygosity of these twins implies that the differences in the clinical phenotype arise from postzygotic genetic changes, epigenetic differences, or environmental factors that influence the phenotypic response to biochemical perturbation rather than allelic or locus heterogeneity. Though the mechanistic role of these factors in D-2-HGA is far from apparent, the discordance in the phenotypes of these siblings establishes that these factors are at least as important as the nature of the mutant alleles in influencing the progression of the disorder.
Abstract A novel capillary electrophoresis–tandem mass spectrometry method for the enantioseparation and identification of 2-hydroxyglutaric acid enantiomers without derivatization for clinical purposes was described. Vancomycin chloride was used as an efficient chiral selector for the discrimination of 2-hydroxyglutaric acid enantiomers by capillary electrophoresis employed complete capillary filling method. The obtained resolution was 2.05. Hyphenation of CE with tandem mass spectrometry allows a reliable identification of separated enantiomers as well as their quantification. The method was validated and applied for the separation, identification and determination of 2-hydroxyglutaric enantiomers in urine samples obtained from healthy patients and two urine samples obtained from child patients suffering from high urine excretion of 2-hydroxyglutaric acid. Abnormal excretion of d -hydroxyglutaric acid was found in both child urine samples (104.5 ± 2.1 and 2200.0 ± 12.6 mmol/mol of creatinine, respectively). The limits of detection for d - and l -hydroxyglutaric acid were 31 and 38 nmol/L, respectively.
l-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a metabolic disorder in which l-2-hydroxyglutarate accumulates as a result of a deficiency in FAD-linked l-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase, a mitochondrial enzyme converting l-2-hydroxyglutarate to α-ketoglutarate. The origin of the l-2-hydroxyglutarate, which accumulates in this disorder, is presently unknown. The oxidation–reduction potential of the 2-hydroxyglutarate/α-ketoglutarate couple is such that l-2-hydroxyglutarate could potentially be produced through the reduction of α-ketoglutarate by a NAD- or NADP-linked oxidoreductase. In fractions of rat liver cytosolic extracts that had been chromatographed on an anion exchanger we detected an enzyme reducing α-ketoglutarate in the presence of NADH. This enzyme co-purified with cytosolic l-malate dehydrogenase (cMDH) upon further chromatography on Blue Sepharose. Mitochondrial fractions also contained an NADH-linked, ‘α-ketoglutarate reductase’ which similarly co-purified with mitochondrial l-malate dehydrogenase (mMDH). Purified mMDH catalysed the reduction of α-ketoglutarate to l-2-hydroxyglutarate with a catalytic efficiency that was about 107-fold lower than that observed with oxaloacetate. For the cytosolic enzyme, this ratio amounted to 108, indicating that this enzyme is more specific. Both cMDH and mMDH are highly active in tissues and α-ketoglutarate is much more abundant than oxaloacetate and more concentrated in mitochondria than in the cytosol. As a result of this, the weak activity of mMDH on α-ketoglutarate is sufficient to account for the amount of l-2-hydroxyglutarate that is excreted by patients deficient in FAD-linked l-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase. The latter enzyme appears, therefore, to be responsible for a ‘metabolite repair’ phenomenon and to belong to the expanding class of ‘house-cleaning’ enzymes.
L-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L-2-HGA) is a rare organic aciduria with a slowly progressive course regarding CNS involvement. We present a 13.5-year-old female patient who presented at the Emergency Department with a generalized status epilepticus, which promptly responded to intravenous phenytoin. CT and MRI demonstrated subcortical white matter alterations. The neurological examination revealed mild mental retardation, macrocephaly and ataxic gait with cerebellar signs. Repeated urinary organic acid analysis demonstrated increased excretion of 2-hydroxyglutaric acid which was of the L-configuration. The constellation of macrocephaly in a patient with mental retardation, cerebellar tract involvement and subcortical white matter signal alterations on MRI should alert the physician to the possibility of L-2-HGA. Although rare, epileptic seizures or even status epilepticus can be among the presenting symptoms in organic acidurias with a slow course, such as L-2-HGA.
Somatic mutations of isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH) 1 and IDH2 were first found in gliomas [3] to convert a-ketoglutarate to oncometabolite R(-)-2-hydroxyglutarate (2-HG), although IDH1 and IDH2, respectively, catalyze the oxidative carboxylation of isocitrate to a-ketoglutarate in cytosol and mitochondria [4] . Results of 2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase deficiency show that 2-HG accumulates in association with the inherited metabolic disorder 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria because 2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase changes 2-HG to a-ketoglutarate [5] . Patients with 2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase deficiencies are known to face increased risk of brain tumors because they accumulate 2-HG in the brain and develop leukoencephalopathy. Furthermore, elevated 2-HG levels in the brain contribute to increased risk of cancer by increasing reactive oxygen species (ROS) concentrations [6] . IDH1/2 mutations were also reported in acute myeloid leukemias (AML) [7] and cartilaginous tumors [8] [9] [10] . Kerr et al. [11] also reported that IDH1/2 mutations were detected in chondrosarcoma, but not in chondroblastic osteosarcomas, suggesting that mutation analysis of IDH1/ 2 has yielded a promising biomarker for distinguishing chondrosarcoma from chondroblastic osteosarcoma.
