Condensation reaction of chalcones with malononitrile and ammonium acetate in the presence of the green nano-modified SBA-15 affords the corresponding 2-amino-3-cyanopyridine derivatives in excellent yield. This approaches claimed to be an environment friendly protocol as it afforded some advantages such as excellent yields and cleaner reaction.
Abstract A nitrile hydratase (NHase) gene from Aurantimonas manganoxydans was cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3). A downstream gene adjacent to the β-subunit was necessary for the functional expression of the recombinant NHase. The structural gene order of the Co-type NHase was α-subunit beyond β-subunit, different from the order typically reported for Co-type NHase genes. The NHase exhibited adequate thermal stability, with a half-life of 1.5 h at 50 °C. The NHase efficiently hydrated 3-cyanopyridine to produce nicotinamide. In a 1-L reaction mixture, 3.6 mol of 3-cyanopyridine was completely converted to nicotinamide in four feedings, exhibiting a productivity of 187 g nicotinamide/g dry cell weight/h. An industrial auto-induction medium was applied to produce the recombinant NHase in 10-L fermenter. A glycerol-limited feeding method was performed, and a final activity of 2170 U/mL culture was achieved. These results suggested that the recombinant NHase was efficiently cloned and produced in E. coli .
2-Chloronicotinic acid is receiving much attention for its effective applications as a key precursor in the synthesis of pesticides and medicines. In this study, a strain ZJB-09149 converting 2-chloro-3-cyanopyridine to 2-chloronicotinic acid was newly isolated and identified as Rhodococcus erythropolis, based on its physiological and biological tests, and 16S rDNA sequence analysis. In addition, the effects of inducer, carbon source and nitrogen source were examined. Maximum activity was achieved when the above parameters were set as 8 g/l ɛ-caprolactam, 7 g/l yeast extract and 5 g/l maltose. Moreover, the biotransformation pathway of 2-chloro-3-cyanopyridine to 2-chloronicotinic acid in strain ZJB-09149 was investigated as well. This study revealed that the nitrile hydratase (NHase) and amidase expressed in R. erythropolis ZJB-09149 are responsible for the conversion of 2-chloro-3-cyanopyridine. This is the first time to report on the biotransformation preparation of 2-chloronicotinic acid.
The reactions of substituted 3-cyanopyridine-2(1H)-thiones and 3-cyano-2-(methylthio)pyridines with lithium aluminum hydride in anhydrous diethyl ether afforded the corresponding 3-aminomethyl derivatives, which were used in the synthesis of the corresponding amides.
Microbial nitrile hydratases (NHases) are important industrial catalysts to produce valuable amides. However, only some NHase genes have been reported and studied at the molecular level. In this study, we developed a genome mining method to discover Fe-type NHases from GenBank. The putative NHase gene from Pseudomonas putida F1 was cloned and functionally expressed in Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) by assisting of a putative activator gene adjacent to β-subunit region. Three recombinant plasmids containing NHase gene or the activator gene were designed and constructed. Maximal enzyme activity was obtained when the structural and activator genes were transcribed as one unit in plasmid pCDFDuet-1 at 18 °C. However, the expressed product did not show any NHase activity when the downstream activator gene was ignored, and the product completely existed in insoluble inclusion body. The activator gene might be involved in protein folding of the α- and β-subunits of NHase. In addition, the Fe-type NHase exhibited broad substrate specificity. The enzyme can efficiently hydrate aromatic nitriles, such as 3-cyanopyridine, 4-cyanopyridine, and benzonitrile, asides from aliphatic nitriles preferentially. Therefore, the recombinant NHase shows potential applications in some amides preparation.
A bacterial strain was isolated from soil samples that had been polluted by nitrile compounds. This strain converts acrylonitrile to acrylamide with high activity. The nitrile hydrolysis activity was tested using eight substrates, including aliphatic, aromatic and heterocyclic (di)nitriles. All of the nitrile compounds were hydrolyzed by the resting cells. The main (cyano-)amide products demonstrated that nitrile hydratase was abundantly produced in this strain and that it mediated monohydrolysis. The specific conversion rate decreased in the following order: acrylonitrile > 3-cyanopyridine > valeronitrile > adiponitrile > 2,3,4,5,6-pentafluorobenzonitrile > -hydroxyphenylacetonitrile > 3-indoleaceto-nitrile > phthalonitrile, suggesting a higher conversion capability towards aliphatic nitriles. The strain that had broad substrate spectra was identified and named Rhodococcus ruber CGMCC3090 based on the 16S rDNA sequence.
Abstract Alkaline protease (22.5 kDa) from Bacillus licheniformis was denatured using 3–6 M Guanidine hydrochloride followed by renaturation with cobalt metal ion in buffer solution (pH 7.5) in order to design cobalt dependent nitrile hydratase AP- x MGdn-Co, where x = 3, 4, 5 and 6. The native alkaline protease showed a 20% residual molar ellipticity at 212 nm while on treatment with Gdn-HCl, it got reduced to 12% due to nearly complete collapse of the globular structure of the protein. The observed circular dichroism spectra of the renatured proteases with Co metal ion are different from the native enzyme, because those molecules contain many metal chelating sites through its coordinating amino acid residues. The introduction of cobalt centered new active site was evidenced by the fluorescence spectroscopy (appearance of a new peak at 360 nm) and ICP analysis (0.0476–0.0553 mg/L). The specific activities of the modified enzymes were measured using the selective catalytic hydrolysis of 3-cyanopyridine to nicotinamide. The highest specific activity of renatured enzymes (AP- x MGdn-Co) were obtained at optimum pH of 7.5 and temperature of 50 °C, due to the proper co-ordination of amino acid residue with cobalt metal ion and the appropriate arrangement of α-helix, β-strand, turn and unordered segment in the globular structure.
Nitrilase activity was detected in desalted extracts of leaves, hypocotyls and roots of swede (Brassica napus) but was considerably higher in leaves than in roots. After inoculation with Plasmodiophora brassicae infected roots and hypocotyls showed an increase in nitrilase activity beginning at the early stages of club development before total protein increased significantly. Enzyme activity of infected tissue was partially purified by DEAE ion exchange chromatography and compared to the enzyme extracted from non infected seedlings. It appears that the increase in nitrilase activity is due to an increase of the plant enzyme which is initially present with lower activity. Km values for the artificial substrate 3-cyanopyridine and for indole-3-acetonitrile were 2.1 × 10−3 M and 6.2 × 10−4M, respectively. The role of nitrilase activity for IAA biosynthesis is discussed.
A series of cationic (2+) [Ni{HN=C(R)NHC(R)=NH}2](X)2 {R = 4-(Cl)C6H4 (1), 3-(NC)C6H4 (3), 4-(NC)C6H4 (4) and Me (7); X = Cl– (1, 3, 4) or MeCOO–·H2O (7)} and neutral [Ni{HN=C(R)NC(R)=NH}2](solvate) {R = 3-(Cl)-4-py (2), 3-py (5) and 4-py (6); solvate = MeOH and/or H2O; py = pyridyl} N,N-chelating bis(1,3,5-triazapentadiene/ato)nickel(II) [Ni(tap)2]2+/0 complexes has been easily generated by a ketoxime-mediated single-pot reaction of a nickel(II) salt [NiCl2·2H2O or Ni(MeCOO)2·4H2O] with 4-chlorobenzonitrile, isophthalonitrile, terephthalonitrile, acetonitrile, 2-chloro-4-cyanopyridine, 3-cyanopyridine or 4-cyanopyridine, respectively. The obtained compounds have been characterized by IR, 1H and 13C{1H} NMR spectroscopy, FAB-MS(+) or ESI-MS(+), elemental analyses and single-crystal X-ray diffraction [for 7 and solvated mono- {1a·(Me2CO)0.33·(MeOH)0.67} and bis-deprotonated (2b·2Me2CO, 4b·CHCl3, 5b·Me2CO and 6b·MeOH) products, formed upon recrystallization of 1, 2, 4, 5 and 6, respectively]. The crystal structures of all compounds bear similar monomeric Ni(tap)2 units with a nearly square-planar geometry. In addition, the structure of 7 features the formation of infinite 1D zig-zag water–acetate chains {[(H2O)2(MeCOO)2]2–}n, which multiply interact with the [Ni(tap)2]2+ cations to generate a 2D hydrogen-bonded supramolecular assembly.
The kinetics of the oxidation of pyridine, 3-chloropyridine, 3-cyanopyridine, 3-methoxypyridine and 3-methylpyridine mediated by SO4 () radicals are studied by flash photolysis of peroxodisulphate, S2O8(2-), at pH 2.5 and 9. The absolute rate constants for the reactions of both, the basic and acid forms of the pyridines, are determined and discussed in terms of the Hammett correlation. The monosubstituted pyridines react about 10 times faster with sulphate radicals than their protonated forms, the pyridine ions. The organic intermediates are identified as the corresponding hydroxypyridine radical adducts and their absorption spectra compared with those estimated employing the time-dependent density functional theory with explicit account for bulk solvent effects. A reaction mechanism which accounts for the observed intermediates and the pyridinols formed as products is proposed.
Abstract Nicotinate dehydrogenase (NDHase) from Comamonas testosteroni JA1 catalyzes the C6 hydroxylation of 3-cyanopyridine with high regional selectivity, which is a very difficult and complex reaction for chemical synthesis. However, because NDHase is a membrane protein with three subunits (ndhS, ndhL and ndhM), it is difficult to express the enzyme in a functional form using common hosts such as Escherichia coli, Bacilus subtilis or Pichia pastoris. Furthermore, the enzyme requires special electron transfer chains in the membrane system for proper catalytic activity. Thus, we investigated the expression of NDHase in non-model bacterial strains, which are evolutionarily similar to C. testosteroni JA1, using several broad-host plasmids with different copy numbers as expression vectors. We successfully expressed NDHase in soluble from using the pVLT33 vector in C. testosteroni CNB-2, and found the activity of enzyme to be 40.6 U/L. To further improve the expression of NDHase in C. testosteroni CNB-2, we trialed a T7-like MmP1 system, composed of MmP1 RNA polymerase and an MmP1 promoter, which is used for transcriptional control in non-model bacteria. This increased protein expression and enzyme activity doubled to 90.5 U/L. A molecular chaperone was co-expressed using pBBR1 MCS-5 in the same host to improve the efficiency of folding and assembly of multi-subunit structures. The maximum activity was 115 U/L using the molecular chaperone GroES-EL, far surpassing the previously reported level, although expression was almost equivalent. These results indicate that a strategy involving the construction of a T7-like system and co-expression of a molecular chaperone offers an efficient approach for heterologous expression of enzymes that are difficult to express in functional forms using conventional hosts.
Abstract Nitrilases have long been considered as an attractive alternative to chemical catalyst in carboxylic acids biosynthesis due to their green characteristics and the catalytic potential in nitrile hydrolysis. A novel nitrilase from Pseudomonas putida CGMCC3830 was purified to homogeneity. p I value was estimated to be 5.2 through two-dimensional electrophoresis. The amino acid sequence of NH 2 terminus was determined. Nitrilase gene was cloned through CODEHOP PCR, Degenerate PCR and TAIL-PCR. The open reading frame consisted of 1113 bp encoding a protein of 370 amino acids. The predicted amino acid sequence showed the highest identity (61.6%) to nitrilase from Rhodococcus rhodochrous J1. The enzyme was highly specific toward aromatic nitriles such as 3-cyanopyridine, 4-cyanopyridine, and 2-chloro-4-cyanopyridine. It was classified as aromatic nitrilase. The nitrilase activity could reach up to 71.8 U/mg with 3-cyanopyridine as substrate, which was a prominent level among identified cyanopyridine converting enzymes. The kinetic parameters K m and V max for 3-cyanopyridine were 27.9 mM and 84.0 U/mg, respectively. These data would warrant it as a novel and potential candidate for creating effective nitrilases in catalytic applications of carboxylic acids synthesis through further protein engineering.
The nucleophilic exchange of chlorine atom in 2-chloro-3-cyanopyridine with morpholine, piperidine and pyrrolidine was carried out. Acids, amides, thioamides, esters and hydrazides were derived from the obtained compounds (Fig. 1). Some of these compounds showed only moderate tuberculostatic activity.
Abstract ::: Nitrile hydratase, which occurs abundantly in cells of Rhodococcus rhodochrous J1 isolated from soil samples, catalyzes the hydration of 3-cyanopyridine to nicotinamide. By using resting cells, the reaction conditions for nicotinamide production were optimized. Under the optimum conditions, 100% of the added 12 M 3-cyanopyridine was converted to nicotinamide without the formation of nicotinic acid, and the highest yield achieved was 1,465 g of nicotinamide per liter of reaction mixture containing resting cells (1.48 g as dry cell weight) in 9 h. The nicotinamide produced was crystallized and then identified physicochemically. The further conversion of the nicotinamide to nicotinic acid was due to the low activity of nicotinamide as a substrate for the amidase(s) present in this organism.
Transition energies, ionization potentials, dipole moments and oscillator strengths have been calculated for pyridine, pyrazine, pyrimidine, pyridazine, 3-cyanopyridine and 4-cyanopyridine by modified INDO-CI. Triplet radiative lifetimes have been calculated for these molecules.
A 3-step synthesis, of dl-nicotine (21-14C) is described. Commercially available nicotinamide (carbonyl-14C) is dehydrated to 3-cyanopyridine (cyano-14C). Reaction of the 3-cyanopyridine with cyclopropyl lithium yields 3-pyridyl cyclopropyl ketone (carbonyl-14C) which is converted to dl-nicotine (21-14C) by refluring in N-methyl formamide. Gas-liquid radio-chromatography is used for cheimical and radiochemical purity determinations.
Abstract A one-pot synthesis of 2-amino-3-cyanopyridine derivatives has been demonstrated through the multicomponent reaction of aldehydes, ketones, malononitrile, and ammonium acetate using graphene oxide as a heterogeneous catalyst in water as a green medium. The graphene oxide catalyst is very mild, effective, and most of its activity is preserved after being reused for five times.
The strain of Rhodococcus rhodochrous tg1-A6 with high activity of nitrilase was used to convert 3-cyanopyridine to nicotinic acid.By using resting cells,the optimum substrate concentration was 130 mmol/L,and the optimized temperature and pH were 55 ℃ and 7.0,respectively.Under the optimal conditions,100% of the added 3-cyanopyridine could be converted,and the highest concentration of nicotinic acid in reaction mixture achieved 165.2 g/L at 15 h.In case of higher yield,the resting cells could be reused for seven batches catalyzing(total 67 h),and the summed yield of nicotinic acid could reach 529 g/L.
A green protocol has been applied to synthesize a novel series of 3-cyano-2-(tri-O-acetyl-β-d-arabinopyranosylthio)pyridines in a short reaction time, in higher yields and with simpler operations, when compared with the conventional heating method. Deacetylation of the obtained acetylated arabinosides produced 2-(β-d-arabinopyranosylthio)-3-cyanopyridines. The structures of the obtained products were confirmed on the basis of spectroscopic data (FT-IR, 1D, 2D-NMR). The synthesized compounds were screened for the antimicrobial activity against a selection of Gram positive and Gram negative bacteria.
A green protocol has been applied to synthesize a novel series of 3-cyano-2-(tri-O-acetyl-β-D-arabinopyranosylthio)pyridines in a short reaction time, in higher yields and with simpler operations, when compared with the conventional heating method. Deacetylation of the obtained acetylated arabinosides produced 2-(β-D-arabinopyranosylthio)-3-cyanopyridines. The structures of the obtained products were confirmed on the basis of spectroscopic data (FT-IR, 1D, 2D-NMR). The synthesized compounds were screened for the antimicrobial activity against a selection of Gram positive and Gram negative bacteria.
Abstract The substrate specificity of a novel aldoxime dehydratase from E -pyridine-3-aldoxime assimilating bacterium, Rhodococcus sp. strain YH3-3, was examined. The enzyme catalyzed a dehydration reaction of various aryl- and alkyl-aldoximes to form the corresponding nitriles, but did not act on arylalkyl- and substituted alkyl-aldoximes. Of various aldoximes tested, E -pyridine-3-aldoxime was the most suitable substrate for the enzyme. E -Pyridine-3-aldoxime analogs such as O -acetyl- E -pyridine-3-aldoxime, Z -pyridine-3-aldoxime, and E / Z -pyridine-3-aldehyde-hydrazone also acted as substrates and were converted to 3-cyanopyridine. Heat-treatment of the cells increased the accumulation of 3-cyanopyridine from E -pyridine-3-aldoxime because the nitrile degrading enzyme, nitrile hydratase was inactivated. Under the optimized reaction conditions (pH 7.0, 30°C), various nitriles were synthesized from the corresponding aldoximes in preparative scales with heat-treated cells of the strain. This is the first report on the microbial synthesis of nitriles from aldoximes.
Abstract Sterically hindered 2,4-disubstituted 3-(5-tetrazolyl)pyridines were synthesized from corresponding nicotinonitriles using microwave technology. 2-Methylnicotinonitriles were converted into the 2-azidomethyl-3-cyanopyridines via 2-hydroxymethyl and 2-chloromethyl derivatives. Intramolecular [3+2] cycloaddition of an heteroaromatic cyano group to side azido group was carried out to form a novel heterocyclic system containing a (tetrazolo)azaisoindole unit. Condensation of the 2-methylnicotinonitriles and aldehydes gave rise to the corresponding 2-vinyl derivatives, which were then transformed into novel heterocyclic system (5,6-dihydrotetrazolo[5,1-f]-1,6-naphthyridine) by intramolecular N-alkylation reaction of tetrazole ring with olefinic fragment. The 3-(5-tetrazolyl)pyridines obtained were alkylated to give the various N- and C-benzyl derivatives as well as acylated to afford the 3-(1,3,4-oxadiazol-2-yl)pyridines in good yields. A majority of above-mentioned reactions was carried out under microwave irradiation.
The Cr(III) porphyrin complexes [Cr(tpp)(Cl)(H2O)] (1) and [(Cr(tpp)(Cl)(py)] (2) (tpp represents the dianion of 5,10,15,20-tetraphenylporphine) crystallized from a chloroform–toluene mixture in the tetragonal space group I4, Z = 2, a = 13.559(5), b = 13.559(5), c = 9.770(3) A, V = 1796(3) A3, and from a dichloroethane–toluene mixture containing a small amount of pyridine (py) in the monoclinic space group P21/n, Z = 4, a = 14.655(5), b = 23.498(4), c = 13.152(2) A, β = 101.54(1)°, V = 4437(2) A3, respectively. The axial Cr–O bond length for 1 and the axial Cr–N bond length for 2 are 2.239(3) and 2.140(5) A, respectively. Laser irradiation of the toluene solution of [Cr(tpp)(Cl)(L)] causes the photodissociation of the axial ligand L, where L represents H2O or 3-cyanopyridine, to give the five-coordinate intermediate [Cr(tpp)(Cl)]. The rate constant of the axial ligand recombination reaction falls into a narrow range around 1 × 109 mol−1 kg s−1 at 25.0 °C for both reactions. The activation parameters indic...
Abstract Membrane-bound nicotinic acid dehydrogenase, an enzyme that catalyzes the formation of 6-hydroxynicotinic acid from nicotinic acid, was solubilized with Triton X-100, and then purified 126-fold with an 11.1% overall recovery from nicotinic acid-induced cells of Pseudomonas fluorescens TN5. The purified enzyme appeared to be homogeneous from analysis by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The enzyme had a molecular mass of approximately 80 kDal and consisted of one subunit. Some electron acceptors, such as phenazine methosulfate, K 3 Fe(CN) 6 and nitro blue tetrazolium, acted as electron acceptors. The purified enzyme catalyzed the hydroxylation of nicotinic acid to 6-hydroxynicotinic acid at a rate of 672 μmol min −1 mg −1 of protein at 35°C. It also catalyzed the hydroxylation of pyrazinecarboxylic acid, 3-pyridinesulfonic acid, and 3-cyanopyridine. The purified enzyme exhibited an optimum pH of 8.3, and was sensitive to thiol reagents such as HgCl 2 and p -chloromercuribenzoate. A reduction in the amount of cytochrome c -like component in the respiratory particles was observed during the hydroxylation reaction of nicotinic acid. Thus, nicotinic acid dehydrogenase appeared to be linked to the cytochrome respiratory chain in the cells of P. fluorescens TN5.
A novel one-dimensional coordination polymer made up of Fe(II), 3-cyanopyridine (3CNpy), and the singular in situ formed [Cu(I)(3CNpy)(CN)2]- anionic bridge has been synthesized. This compound undergoes a spin-crossover behavior according to its magnetic and calorimetric properties. The crystal structure of the title compound has been studied in the high- and low-spin states and correlated with the character of the spin conversion. Evidence for intense spin-state-dependent Cu....Cu interactions between the chains is also reported.
AIM AND OBJECTIVE ::: For the development of new class of anticancer agents, a series of novel 2-amino-3-cyanopyridine derivatives were designed from virtual screening with Glide program by setting Topoisomerase II as the target. ::: ::: ::: MATERIALS AND METHODS ::: The top ranked ten molecules from the virtual screening were synthesized by microwave assisted technique and investigated for their cytotoxic activity against MCF-7 and A- 549 cell lines by using sulforhodamine B assay method. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: The most active compound 2-amino-4-(3,5-dibromo-4-hydroxyphenyl)-6-(2,4- dichlorophenyl) nicotinonitrile (CG-5) showed significant cytotoxic profile with (LC50 = 97.1, TGI = 29.9 and GI50 = <0.1 µM) in MCF-7 and (LC50= 93.0, TGI= 50.0 and GI50= <7 µM) in A-549 cell lines. A molecular docking study was performed to explore the binding interaction of CG-5with the active site of Topoisomerase II. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: It can be concluded that halogen substituent pyridine ring was benefit for cytotoxicity.
Reactions of 3-cyanopyridine-2(1H)-thiones with ethyl chloroacetate and chloroacetamide gave the corresponding amino-substituted thieno[2,3-b]pyridines which were treated with formamide or ethyl formate to obtain fused pyridothieno[3,2-d]pyrimidinones. The latter were converted into hydrazino derivatives whose cyclocondensation with triethyl orthoformate or formic acid afforded 7,10-dihydro-8H-pyranopyridothienopyrimidines and 2,3-dihydro-1H-cyclopentapyridothienopyrimidines annulated by triazole ring at the pyrimidine ring.
Conclusions1.Methods for synthesizing 4-methyl-6-phenyl-3-cyanopyridine-2[1H]thione were developed, based on the reaction of enamines with cyanothioacetamide, and 4-methyl-6-phenyl-3 -cyanopyridine-2[1H]selenone, based on the reaction of enamines or benzoylacetone with cyanoselenoacetamide.2.The reaction of benzoylacetone with cyanothioacetamide leads to the formation of a mixture of 4-methyl-6-phenyl- and 6-methyl-4-phenyl-3-cyanopyridine-2[1H]thiones in a ratio of 2∶1.3.Alkylation of 3-cyanopyridine-2[1H]thiones and 3-cyanopyridine-2[1H]selenones, proceeding through the intermediate formation of 3-cyano-2-alkylthio(seleno)pyridines, leads to derivatives of 3-aminothieno-[2,3-b]- and 3-aminoselenopheno[2,3-b]pyridines.
Abstract A nitrile-converting enzyme activity was induced in Aspergillus niger K10 by 3-cyanopyridine. The whole cell biocatalyst was active at pH 3–11 and hydrolyzed the cyano group into acid and/or amide functions in benzonitrile as well as in its meta - and para -substituted derivatives, cyanopyridines, 2-phenylacetonitrile and thiophen-2-acetonitrile. Amides constituted a significant part of the total biotransformation products of 2- and 4-cyanopyridine, 4-chlorobenzonitrile, 4-tolunitrile and 1,4-dicyanobenzene, while α-substituted acrylonitriles gave amides as the sole products.
BACKGROUND ::: Among a wide range of pyridines, 3-cyanopyridines acquired a special attention due to their wide range of pharmacological activities especially the therapeutic activities. Many pharmacological drugs containing the pyridine nucleus were known in the market. ::: ::: ::: OBJECTIVE ::: The aim of this work was to synthesize target molecules not only possess anti-tumor activities but also kinase inhibitors. To achieve this goal, our strategy was to synthesize a series of 3-cyanopyridine derivatives using 2-aminoprop-1-ene-1,1,3-tricarbonitrile (1) as the key starting material for many heterocyclization reactions. ::: ::: ::: METHOD ::: Muticoponent reactions were adopted using compound 1 to get different pyridine derivatives that were capable for different heterocyclization reactions. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Antiproliferative evaluations and c-Met kinase, Pim-1 kinse inhibitions were perform where some compounds gave high activities. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Compounds that showed high antiprolifeative activity were tested gor c-Met-independent and the results showed that compounds 5c, 5e, 5f, 7c, 7f and 16d were more active than foretinib. The Pim-1 kinase inhibition activity of some selected compounds showed that compounds 5e and 16c were high potent to inhibit Pim-1 activity.
Abstract The adsorption of three cyanopyridine isomers on Pt electrodes was investigated using electrochemical surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS) within a wide potential region. It was revealed that the adsorption configurations depend on the applied potential and on the positions of CN group. The 4-cyanopyridine (4-CP) and 3-cyanopyridine (3-CP) molecules adsorb on Pt surfaces via the N atoms of the pyridine ring, while the 2-cyanopyridine (2-CP) molecules attach to the surface with the N atoms of both the pyridine ring and the CN group. In the case of 4-CP, the tilted adsorption mode is dominant under the potential of −0.8–0 V. It is converted to the vertical mode when the potential is moved to 0–0.8 V. For 3-CP, the vertical adsorption mode is found to be preferential in the full potential window. The C N stretching vibrational band of 2-CP is absent in the observed SER spectra. This is mainly caused by the characteristic π-electron delocalization as both N atoms are anchored to the Pt surface to form a heterogeneous ring. The hydrogen atoms are co-adsorbed with the cyanopyridine isomers on the Pt surface in extremely negative potential region.
SUMMARY: Nocardia rhodochrous LL100-21 utilized 2-, 3- or 4-cyanopyridine (2-, 3- or 4-pyridine carbonitrile) and the corresponding pyridine carboxamides as sources of nitrogen for growth. Studies with intact bacteria and cell-free extracts indicated that 3-cyanopyridine was hydrolysed directly to nicotinic acid by an inducible 3-cyanopyridinase enzyme (a nitrilase), and that the organism also possessed a separately inducible nicotinamidase. In cultures supplied with 3-cyanopyridine or nicotinamide as the source of nitrogen the compounds were hydrolysed to form ammonia, which was utilized for growth, and nicotinic acid, which was not further metabolized and accumulated in the culture medium. In cultures containing 3-cyanopyridine, which had a bacteriostatic effect, little growth occurred until all the nitrile had been converted to nicotinic acid; the specific activity of 3-cyanopyridinase of the bacteria was highest in the early exponential phase of growth and had disappeared by the stationary phase. Measurements of the abilities to either oxidize or release ammonia from heterocyclic, aromatic and aliphatic nitriles and amides by bacteria grown on the various substrates indicated that benzonitrile acted as both a substrate and an inducer of 3-cyanopyridinase activity, whereas benzamide acted as a substrate and an inducer of nicotinamidase. These enzymes are induced separately from the acetonitrile hydratase/acetamidase enzyme system of this bacterium.
Abstract This lecture is concerned with the synthesis, physico-chemical properties and reactivity of an important class of heterocyclic compounds - hydrogenated 3-cyanopyridine-2(1H)-thiones, and -selenones and their derivatives.
1. ::: ::: 6-(1-Adamantyl)-3-cyanopyridin-2(1H)-one has been obtained for the first time by reaction of the sodium salt of 3-(1-adamantyl)-1-hydroxyprop-1-en-3-one with cyanoacetamide. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: The regioselectivity of the alkylation reaction on the oxygen atom of the substituted pyridone by halomethylene-active compounds has been established. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: A nucleophilic substitution reaction where an OCH2COOR group is replaced by an OR group has been discovered in 6-(1-adamantyl)-2-alkoxycarbonylmethoxy-3-cyanopyridines when they are treated with excess sodium alkoxide in alcohol.
By combining nitrile-tethered pyridinium-based ionic liquid dication with the polyoxometalate anion of Keggin H5PMo10V2O40 (PMoV2) through precipitation in aqueous solution, an organic–inorganic hybrid catalyst 1,1′-(butane-1,4-diyl)-bis(3-cyanopyridine)–PMoV2 was prepared for heterogeneous hydroxylation of benzene to phenol with O2 and ascorbic acid as the oxidant and reductant, respectively. The hybrid catalyst not only gave the high phenol yield of 13.0 % under the optimized reaction conditions, but also exhibited high potential for reusability. The catalyst and its analogue samples were characterized by elemental analysis, Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, electron spin resonance spectroscopy, X-ray diffraction, scanning electron microscopy, and nitrogen adsorption–desorption analysis. The structure–activity relationship is discussed according to the characterization and density functional theory calculation results.
Abstract Transition metal oxide is a promising anode material in lithium-ion battery, however it suffers from poor cycling performance due to its large volume change during charge/discharge process. Herein, we designed and fabricated a yolk-shell Fe 3 O 4 composite nanoparticle with individual Fe 3 O 4 nanoparticle as the yolk and N-coped carbon as the shell by using ionic liquid as the C and N sources. The individual Fe 3 O 4 nanoparticle was firstly covered by a sacrificial SiO 2 layer, then coated with N-doped carbon by one-step carbonization with ionic liquid (3-cyanopyridine/H 2 SO 4 ). After removing the SiO 2 layer by NaOH etching, yolk-shell Fe 3 O 4 @void@N-doped carbon was obtained. This unique structure would not only afford adequate void to accommodate the large volume change during charge/discharge process, but also improve the structural stability and electrical conductivity. Thus, Fe 3 O 4 @void@N-doped carbon showed a high reversible capacity and cycling life of 860 mAh g −1 after 500 charge/discharge cycles at a current rate of 1000 mA g −1 , and excellent rate capacity of 180 mAh g −1 even at 7000 mA g −1 .
1. ::: ::: An x-ray diffraction structural study showed that the product of the reaction of sodium 3-(1-adamantyl)-3-oxo-1-propen-1-olate with cyanoselenoacetamide is 6-(1-adamantyl)-3-cyanopyridine-2(1H) -selenone. The length of the C=Se double bond is 1.80(1) a. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: 6-(1-Adamantyl)-3-cyanopyridine-2(1H)-selenone crystallizes from the reaction medium as a monohydrate. The selenone molecule is connected to the water molecule by N-H...O and O-H...Se hydrogen bonds.
4-Anisy1–5,6-polymethylene-3-cyanopyridine-2(1H)-thiones 1 were reacted with chloroacetonitrile in alcoholic KOH to give theino[2,3-b]pyridine derivatives 2. Enaminonitriles 2 were reacted with each of HCOOH, formamide/HCOOH/DMF mixture and cyanamide/HCl to give 3, 4, and 5, respectively, whereas boiling 2 in a proper solvent and basic catalyst with each of CS 2 and thiourea yielded 6 and 7 respcetively. On the other hand, fused pyridine derivatives 8, 9, and 10 were obtained by refluxing 2 with each of malononitrile, ethy1 cyanoacetate, and benzalmalononitrile in alcoholic triethylamine mixture. Also, fused pyrazoles and benzo-1,4-diazepines 12 and 14 were synthesized.
Solubility of two isomers of cyanopyridine (CNP) in various solvents were determined by the gravimetric method in the temperature range from 268.15 K to 318.15 K at atmospheric pressure. The experimental results show that the solubility of 3-cyanopyridine increased dramatically over 298.15 K, whereas 4-cyanopyridine was more stable at the same state. The modified Apelblat model, polynomial equation, the Buchowski–Ksiazczak λh equation, and Wilson model were employed to correlate the experimental data. The Wilson model provides better agreement than the other models in terms of the 3- and 4-cyanopyridine. Moreover, molecular simulation was also used to present the interaction between 3-CNP, 4-CNP, and the solvent molecules, which can give an explanation for the solubility behavior in solvents.
2-Chloronicotinic acid(1) in total yield of 75.1% was synthesized from 3-cyanopyridine(2) by the reaction of oxidation,chlorination and hydrolysis.The structure was identified by IR and MS.The appropriate oxidation conditions in yield of 92.2% at 70 ℃ for 8 h were as follows: 2 was 410 mmol;n(H2O2) ∶n(2) was 1.2 ∶1.0.
Abstract A novel bacterial named AC21 having nitrile-converting activity was gained with acetonitrile as sole source of nitrogen, which was recognized by morphology and 16S rDNA gene sequence as Stenotrophomonas maltophilia . This intracellular nitrilase induced by acetonitrile (0.3%) catalyses the conversion of 3-cyanopyridine to nicotinic acid without noticeable production of nicotinamide. Optimal pH and temperature of Nitrilase AC21 was obtained at pH 8.0 and 45 °C. Irreversible thermo-inactivation results showed that, enzyme half-life was 6 h at 80 °C. Several process factors, including quantity of enzyme and rate of substrate feeding, were considered with the goal of reaching whole substrate transformation. In a fed batch manner at 1 l scale using hyper-induced AC21 resting cells equivalent to 10 U ml −1 nitrilase activity, a total of 945 mM of 3-cyanopyridine was formed at a rate of 3.32 g h −1 g dcw −1 , which directed AC21 has ability of application in large scale nicotinic acid production.
The reaction of isomeric tetrachlorocyanopyridz'nes and pentachloropyridine with potassium isopropyltritlu'ocarbonate was investigated. It was found that the structure and composition of the reaction products depend both on the initial polychloropyridines and on the solvent in which the process is carried out. The intramolecular transformations of the isopropyltrithiocarbonate derivatives of tetrachloro-2-cyanopyridine in acetonitrile solution lead to 1,3-dithiolo[4,5-c]pyddines. In other cases heterocyclization was not observed. If the reactions were conducted in ethanol (except with tetrachloro-3-cyanopyridine) ttu'oalkylation of the pyridine ring occurred. In previous communications we examined the synthesis of 1,3-dithiolo[4,5-c]pyridines based on the reactions of 2substituted tetrachloropyridines with the N,N-dialkyldithiocarbamates of alkali metals. In a continuation of investigations into methods for the armellation of sulfur-containing heterocycles to the pyridine ring we studied the reactions of a series of polychloropyridines [tetrachloro-2-cyanopyridine (Ia), tetrachloro-4-cyanopyridine (Ib), tetrachloro-3-cyanopyridine (Ic), and pentachloropyridine (Id)] with potassium isopropyltrithiocarbonate (II). The reaction conditions and the monitoring methods were similar to those described earlier [1]. In the reaction of the cyanopyridine (Ia) with (II) in acetone only compound (III), i.e., the product from disubstitution of the pyridine ring at positions 3 and 4 by two isopropyltrithiocarbonate fragments (Scheme 1), was obtained. Attempts to detect the monosubstituted derivative (IV) in the reaction mixture were unsuccessful. Chromatographic control of the reaction showed that the disubstituted derivative (III) is formed immediately after the trithiocarbonate (II) is added to an excess of the initial compound (Ia) (without any intermediate products) and is the main component of the reaction mixture [together with the pyridine (Ia)]. Thus, the
Abstract Cu3[W(CN)8]2(pyrimidine)2(3-cyanopyridine)2 · 4H2O, a cyanide-bridged copper(II) octacyanotungstate(V) with two types of organic ligands (pyrimidine and 3-cyanopyridine), is prepared. In this compound, the coordination geometry of W is an 8-coordinated bicapped trigonal prism where five CN groups of [W(CN)8] are bridged to five Cu ions, and the remaining three CN groups are free. The coordination geometries of the three types of Cu ions (Cu1, Cu2, and Cu3) are 6-coordinated pseudo-octahedron. The cyano-bridged-Cu2–W–Cu3-layer is linked by a Cu1 pillar unit, and a cavity along the a axis, which is occupied by 3-cyanopyridine molecules and zeolitic water molecules, exists. The present compound shows ferrimagnetism with a Currie temperature of 7 K, a saturation magnetization of 2.9 μB, and a coercive field of 7 Oe at 2 K.
Whole cells of Rhodococcus equi A4, a producer of nitrile hydratase and amidase activities, were immobilized in lens-shaped hydrogel particles, LentiKats®. The immobilized biocatalyst was applied to the biotransformation of benzonitrile, 3-cyanopyridine, (R,S)-3-hydroxy-2-methylenebutanenitrile and (R,S)-3-hydroxy-2-methylene-3-phenylpropanenitrile. The stability of the nitrile hydratase during the repeated use of the biocatalyst was dependent on the type of the substrate. The enzyme was most stable during the transformation of (R,S)-3-hydroxy-2-methylenebutanenitrile. No significant loss of the amidase activity was observed within the course of the biocatalytic reaction.
Using UV and LiCl mutagenesis technology,nicotinamide bacteria Rhodococcus.equi protoplast conduct mutation breeding.The best conditions of protoplast formation and regeneration are namely glycine concentration 2.6%,fungus age 36 h,enzyme concentration 2.0 mg/mL,enzyme solution temperature 32 ℃,enzymolysis time 40 min,protoplast formation rate reached 94.6%.The best conditions of compound mutation are as follows:ultraviolet irradiation 80 s,lithium chloride concentration 0.6%.Finally,the study get a stable-high-yield strains of 3-cyanopyridine hydratase,Rhodococcus equi LY-PM09,the enzyme production enzyme activity is 1 247 U/mL,which increased 91.3% than starting strain.
Nitrile hydratase (NHase; E.C. 4.2.1.84) has been purified and characterized using ammonium sulfate precipitation, ion exchange chromatography and gel filtration chromatography from the mutant 4D of Rhodococcus rhodochrous PA-34. The SDS-PAGE and MALDI-TOF analysis of the purified enzyme revealed that it is dimmer consisting of α- and β-subunits with a molecular mass of 25 and 30 kDa, respectively. The Km and Vmax values were 102 mM and 350.8 μmol/min/mg using 3-cyanopyridine as substrate. The purified NHase was stable in higher concentration of potassium ions and in acidic pH 5.5 as compared to NHase of the wild R. rhodochrous PA-34. The analysis of the N-terminal amino acid sequence of this enzyme revealed that this enzyme has 90 % homology with the high molecular weight nitrile hydratase of R. rhodochrous J1.
Abstract Nitrile hydratase (NHase; E.C. 4.2.1.84) has been purified and characterized using ammonium sulfate precipitation, ion exchange chromatography and gel filtration chromatography from the mutant 4D of Rhodococcus rhodochrous PA-34. The SDS-PAGE and MALDI-TOF analysis of the purified enzyme revealed that it is dimmer consisting of a-and b-subunits with a molecular mass of 25 and 30 kDa, respectively. The K m and V max values were 102 mM and 350.8 lmol/min/mg using 3-cyanopyridine as substrate. The purified NHase was stable in higher concentration of potassium ions and in acidic pH 5.5 as compared to NHase of the wild R. rhodochrous PA-34. The analysis of the N-terminal amino acid sequence of this enzyme revealed that this enzyme has 90 % homology with the high molecular weight nitrile hydratase of R. rhodochrous J1.
Rhodococcus rhodochrous PA-34 has been reported as a potential organism that can convert acrylonitrile, butyronitrile and 3-cyanopyridine to corresponding amides at a high concentration (Raj et al. 2006 Prasad et al. 2007; Bhalla and Kumar 2005) . A mutant 4D has been generated by chemical mutagenesis of R. rhodochrous PA-34 using MNNG that exhibited twofold increase in its nitrile hydratase activity for the conversion of 3-cyanopyridine to nicotinamide (Pratush et al. 2010) . In this communication, we report the purification and characterization of nitrile hydratase of mutant 4D of R. rhodochrous PA-34.
A novel preparative method for the synthesis of 2-(organylsulfonyl)thieno[2,3-b]pyridine derivatives has been developed, which allows one to obtain the desired products in a good yield and to shorten the reaction duration. The reaction of 3-cyanopyridine-2(1H)-thiones with chloromethyl organyl sulfones in the presence of potassium carbonate as the base gave 2-(organylsulfonyl) thieno[2,3-b]pyridine-3-amines. The same reaction of methyl 4,6-dimethylpyridine- 2(1H)-thione-3-carboxylate with chloromethyl organyl sulfones resulted in tautomeric mixtures of 4,6-dimethyl-2-(organylsulfonyl)thieno[2,3-b]pyridine-3-oles and 4,6-dimethyl-2-(organylsulfonyl) thieno[2,3-b]pyridine-3(2H)-ones.
New versatile enaminonitrile-type building blocks, 3-aminothieno[2,3-b]pyridine-2-carbonitriles 3a,b, were synthesized from 3-cyanopyridine-2-(1H)-thiones 1a,b. Interaction of 3a,b with triethyl orthoformate furnished the corresponding ethoxymethylideneamino derivatives 6a,b. Derivatives of heterocyclic systems having the pyrazole, pyrimidine, and pyridine rings were obtained from the key precursors 3a,b and 6a, respectively.
The invention discloses a catalyst for preparing 3-cyanopyridine by catalytic ammoxidation and a preparation method thereof. The catalyst is based on titanium dioxide and vanadic anhydride; and oxalic acid, tin oxide, cerium oxide, silver oxide, sodium hypophosphite and zinc phosphate are added in the preparation process, and are ground and evenly sprayed on an SMA maleic anhydride catalyst carrier. The catalyst provided by the invention is used for the catalysis of ammoxidation to prepare 3-cyanopyridine, not only can significantly improve the conversion rate of 3-methyl pyridine, but also can reduce adverse reaction and increase the purity of 3-cyanopyridine. The technical effect is related to the weight ratio of sodium hypophosphite and zinc phosphate in the catalyst preparation process; when the weight ratio of sodium hypophosphite and zinc phosphate is 6-8:1, the prepared catalyst has optimal catalytic performance.
4-Cyanopyridine-2,6-d2 (5a-2,6-d2), 3-cyanopyridine-2,6-d2 (5b-2,6-d2), and 2-cyanopyridine-4,6-d2 (5c-4,6-d2) were synthesized from the corresponding 2-, 3- or 4-pyridinecarboxylic acid N-oxides. These dideuterated products were characterized by their mass and NMR spectra.
Abstract A series of 3-cyanopyridine glycosides have been synthesized and evaluated for their inhibitory activity against human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) replication in MT-4 cells. Among the 3-cyanopyridine glycosides 6-(p-methylphenyl) and 6-(p-aminophenyl) were the most selective inhibitors of HIV replication.
Three kinds of aryloxyniacinamides which were not reported before were synthesized.The structures of target compounds are identified by 1 HNMR and IR spectra.The physical and chemical properties of the target compounds are discussed,besides the synthetic conditions of aryloxylnicotinic acids and target compounds are discussed.The biological activity tests of target compounds are in progress.The principles are that three kinds of 3-cyano-2-aryloxypyridines are synthesized with the reaction of 2-chloro-3-cyanopyridine and phenol is alkalified by sodium hydride.Through the hydrolysis of 2-chloro-3-aryloxypyridine with sodium hydroxide and acidification with hydrochloric acid,aryloxylnicotinic acids are obtained.Via arylchlorination,it reacts with aminoacids alkalified by Sodium hydroxide.
An alcohol oxidation method based on the use of pyridine or 3-cyanopyridine as an organocatalyst in combination with trichloroisocyanuric acid as the terminal oxidant is reported. It is demonstrated that secondary aliphatic alcohols can be selectively oxidized to the corresponding ketones in the presence of primary aliphatic alcohols. The method is also suitable for the oxidation of primary and secondary benzylic alcohols. N-Chloropyridinium cyanurates are proposed as the active alcohol-oxidizing species.
Hydrothermal reactions of 3-cyanopyridine and NaN3 with ZnCl2 or CdCl2·5/2H2O in the presence of 1,4-benzenedicarboxylic acid (H2bdc) yielded two new coordination polymers, {[Zn(3-ptz)(bdc)0.5(H2O)2]n·2H2O}n (1) and [Cd2(3-ptz)2Cl2]n (2), based on in situ synthesized 5-(3-pyridyl)tetrazolate (3-ptz) organic ligand. They have been structurally characterized by elemental analysis (EA), infrared spectroscopy (IR) and single-crystal/powder X-ray diffraction (PXRD). In 1, two Zn(II) ions are linked together through two μ2-(3-ptz) ligands to form a dimeric unit of [Zn(μ2-3-ptz)(H2O)2]2, which is further connected with other equivalent units by μ2-bdc spacers, resulting in an infinite 1D polymeric chain of [Zn2(3-ptz)2(H2O)2(bdc)]n, and then strong hydrogen bonding interactions extend these 1D chains into a 3D supramolecular structure. In 2, the Cd(II) ions are connected through μ4-(3-ptz) ligands and Cl anions, leading to infinite 2D layers of [Cd2(3-ptz)Cl2]n, which are further linked by another μ4-(3-ptz) pillared ligand to form a 3D layered-pillared framework architecture of [Cd2(3-ptz)2Cl2]n. Furthermore, thermal stability of these compounds was measured by thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) and their photoluminescent properties were also investigated in the solid state at room temperature.
The oxidation and ammoxidation of 3-picoline over vanadium-modified NaY, H-ZSM-5 (Si/Al = 30), crystalline SAPO (37), and crystalline/amorphous V-silicoaluminophosphate catalysts have been carried out. The yields of 3-cyanopyridine for V-ZSM-5, V-SAPO (37), and V-NaY were 62.6, 76.0, and 1 wt%, respectively. The aluminophosphate framework of SAPO enhances the yield of 3-cyanopyridine, and because of the shape selectivity the high boilers have been decreased in the product. We report vanadium-modified crystalline silicoaluminophosphate as a new class of oxidation and ammoxidation catalysts and compare them with amorphous materials.
The nitrilase-mediated green synthesis of nicotinic acid, an important reaction in synthetic organic chemistry, has attracted considerable attention in recent years. However, the application potential of nitrilase is hindered by several limitations, such as low catalytic efficiency and byproduct formation. In this study, the site saturation mutagenesis of asparagine 40, phenylalanine 50, and glutamine 207 in recombinant nitrilase from Pseudomonas putida CGMCC3830 was conducted to improve the specificity of nitrilase for nicotinic acid. The resulting mutants, which contain the mutations N40G (asparagine → glycine), F50W (phenylalanine → tryptophan), and Q207E (glutamine → glutamic acid) produced higher nicotinic acid yields than the wild type. Furthermore, double and triple mutations were introduced, and four mutants containing N40G/F50W, N40G/Q207E, F50W/Q207E, and N40G/F50W/Q207E were obtained and evaluated for their capacity to produce nicotinic acid. The double mutant F50W/Q207E and triple mutant N40G/F50W/Q207E displayed the highest activity, which was nearly two-fold higher than that of the wild type. The kinetics analysis of nicotinic acid synthesis with the mutant nitrilase revealed the higher catalytic capability of all the mutants compared with the wild type. These results provide new insights into the catalytic performance of P. putida nitrilase toward 3-cyanopyridine to promote nicotinic acid production.
Nicotinic acid and its derivatives show manifold photoreactivity depending on the solvent and the acidity of the solution. The cationic form of these compounds in general undergoes photo-hydroxylation in aqueous solutions, and photo-ethylation in ethanol solutions. The anionic form of nicotinic acid is resistant to UV-irradiation in strongly alkaline aqueous solution, but undergoes photo-decarboxylation in alkaline ethanol solution. Nicotinic acid yielded 2-(3-pyridyl)-5-pyridinecarboxylic acid in aqueous solutions at pH=4–6. Photo-substitution by 1-hydroxyethyl group occurs in the neutral forms of 3-cyanopyridine and ethyl nicotinate in ethanol solution. The photoreactivity of nicotinic acid is considered on the basis of CNDO/2 calculation.
Crl:CD(SD)rats were given 3-cyanopyridine by gavage at 0, 5, 30 or 180 mg/kg/day. Males were dosed for 42 days beginning 14 days before mating, and females for 40-53 days beginning 14 days before mating to day 3 of lactation, including throughout the mating and gestation periods. General toxicity, mainly liver damage, was observed in males at ≥30 mg/kg/day and in females at ≥5 mg/kg/day. Sertoli cell vacuolation was observed at 180 mg/kg/day, and spermatocyte damages were observed at ≥30 mg/kg/day. Effects on estrous cycles, corpora lutea and implantations, and unsuccessfully mated females, despite additional mating, were observed at 180 mg/kg/day. Delayed initiation of delivery, dystocia, and deaths or moribundities of pregnant females were observed at 180 mg/kg/day, and only two pregnant rats delivered live pups at that dose. The NOAEL for reproductive/developmental toxicity was concluded to be 30 mg/kg/day.
Two structurally related bis(imidoylamidine or 1,3,5-triazapentadiene)nickel(II) compounds {Ni[HN=C(3-py)NC(3-py)=NH]2}·H2O·MeOH (1) and [Ni{HN=C(3-py)N(H)C(3-py)=NH}2]Cl2 (2) with symmetrical 3-pyridyl (3-py) substituents have been prepared by direct 2-butanone oxime mediated transformation of 3-cyanopyridine in the presence of Ni(MeCO2)2·4H2O or NiCl2·2H2O, respectively. Compounds 1 and 2 have been characterized by elemental analyses, IR, 1H and 13C{1H} NMR spectroscopy, and FAB+ mass spectrometry, while their slow recrystallization in air from organic solvents revealed a high affinity for water and resulted in the formation of the derived compounds [Ni{HN=C(3-py)NC(3-py)=NH}2]·6H2O (1′) and [Ni{HN=C(3-py)N(H)0.5C(3-py)=NH}2]Cl·2H2O (2′). Single-crystal X-ray diffraction analyses allowed the identification of discrete hexameric water or hybrid water–chloride clusters hosted by the crystal matrixes of 1′ and 2′, respectively. Both the (H2O)6 and [(H2O)4(Cl)2]2– clusters possess similar geometries and consist of cyclic planar tetranuclear (H2O)4 or [(H2O)2(Cl)2]2– cores with two dangling water molecules. These water associates occupy voids in the crystal cells and display extensive H-bonding interactions with monomeric nickel–organic units, thus playing a key role in the formation of 3D hydrogen-bonded supramolecular assemblies. (© Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, 69451 Weinheim, Germany, 2007)
Abstract The lithiated β-amino-β-substituted acrylonitriles 4a - d generated in situ by reaction of lithioacetonitrile with either acetonitrile or substituted nitriles undergo cyclocondensation with α-oxoketenedithioacetals through 1,4-addition to afford 2,6-substituted and 5,6-annelated-4-(methylthio)-3-cyanopyridines 6a - m , 11a - h and 12a - b in good yields. A few of the 2,6-diheterylpyridines 6n - q were also synthesized following this procedure. The corresponding α-cinnamoyl 12a - c and α-(5-aryl-2,4-pentadienoyl) ( 12d ) ketenedithioacetals on the other hand underwent cyclization with 4a to afford the corresponding 4-aryl- (or 4-styryl-6-[2-bis (methylthio)ethenyl]-3-cyanopyridines l4a - d in good yields. Raney Nickel desulphurization of some of these pyridines afforded products of reductive dethiomethylation and those formed by reductive alkylation of nitrile group.
Deferent types of thiazole derivatives were obtained via reaction of cyanoacetamide derivatve (1) with phenyl isothiocyanate and a- halocarbonyl compounds. Also, thiazole derivatives containing chromene moiety were synthesized through interaction of thiosemicarbazone derivative (10) with a-halocarbonyl compounds followed by cyclocondensation with salicyldehyde. In addition, deferent types of 3-cyanopyridine derivatives were obtained through reaction of (1) or (10) with some electrophilic reagents.
Our research group has focused on the hydrothermal synthesis of single crystalline Mo-V-O based catalysts [17] [18] [19] . Particularly, single phasic orthorhombic Mo 3 VO x , having a microporous and layered structure, is of importance because its structure is basically the same as that of so called "M1 phase" which is well known as active phase in the industrial selective oxidation catalysts [18] . We have found that the Mo-V-O catalysts, as a structurally well defined catalytic phase for "M1 phase", catalyzed the selective oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane at low temperature (300 ˚C) [18] . The single phase Mo-V-P catalyst with similar structure also catalyzed the ammoxidation of propane [19] . Recently, we have extended the hydrothermal synthetic methodology to metal oxides consisted of various group 5 and 6 elements [20] [21] [22] [23] , and prepared a series of binary metal oxides (such as W-Ta-O [20, 23] , W-Nb-O [21] and W-V-O complex oxides [22] ) with similar microporous and layered structure as the orthorhombic Mo 3 VO x [18] . Considering the fact that WOx is an well known acidic co-catalyst of V-based catalysts [24] [25] [26] [27] , we have hypothesized that the W-V-O oxides act as effective catalysts for the ammoxidation. In this regard, we have recently reported the W-V-O-catalyzed highly selective ammoxidation of 3-picoline to 3-cyanopyridine [22] . We report herein a highly selective gas-phase ammoxidation of toluene by the hydrothermally prepared W-V-O layered oxides. The catalysts show high efficiency of NH 3 utilization in ammoxidation as well as high selectivity of benzonitrile based on toluene. In situ IR study shows that the reaction of benzaldehyde with NH 3 is a main pathway to benzonitrile on this catalytic system. Model reaction studies are also conducted to discuss the reason why the W-V-O catalyst shows high efficiency of NH 3 utilization.
Through a series of correlative studies, the stereochemistry of the enzymatic processes with the coenzyme analogues of NAD+, 3-acetylpyridine-adenine dinucleotide, thionicotinamide-adenine dinucleotide and 3-cyanopyridine-adenine dinucleotide, have been examined for horse liver and yeast alcohol dehydrogenase (both A-specific for NAD+ ) and glutamate dehydrogenase (Bspecific for NAD+). In each case the stereochemistry of the process with respect to substrate and coenzyme remains identical to that for NAD+. The implications for this are examined in view of the different geometry of the substituents at the 3-position of the pyridine ring. A ready conversion of the thionicotinamide analogue of NADH to NADH is also described.
Attempts to obtain N-(3-carboxy-2-pyridyl)glycine (5) from 2-chloro-3-cyanopyridine are described. The ring–chain tautomerism of certain N-(2-pyridyl)aminoacetaldehydes is discussed. Three preparations of N-3-(carboxy-2-pyridyl)aminoacetaldehyde (20) and its cyclisation to the zwitterionic imidazo[1,2-a]pyridinium-8-carboxylate (23) are given.
AbstractThe nitrile hydratase (NHase) gene of Rhodococcus rhodochrous PA-34 mutant 4D has been amplified by PCR, cloned and expressed in Pichia pastoris KM-71 using pHIL-D2 expression vector. The recombinant P. pastoris KM-71 exhibited active expression of the nitrile hydratase gene of the mutant 4D and has shown very good potential for the transformation of 3-cyanopyridine to nicotinamide. The recombinant P. pastoris KM-71 exhibited maximum NHase activity when cultivated in YPD medium was supplemented with 0.4 mM cobalt ions. The recombinant P. pastoris KM-71 showed maximum nitrile hydratase enzyme production, when incubated at 30 °C for 15 h.
Substituted 2-(o-carboran-1-yl)methylthio-3-cyanopyridines and-pyrimidines undergo Thorpe-Ziegler cyclization under the influence of KOH in DMF to give the corresponding thienopyridines and thienopyrimidines. The reaction is complicated by a side reaction in which thecloso-carborane nucleus is converted to anido-system. The yield of thienopyridines containing acloso-carborane unit is increased by introduction of an acceptor substituent in the pyridine ring. Destruction of thecloso-carborane nucleus is not observed with the pyrimidine derivatives. The structures of the series of new carborane-containing thienopyridines and pyrimidines was confirmed by spectroscopic methods.
We report herein the kinetic studies on hydrolysis of three cyanopyridines in high-temperature water. 3-Cyanopyridine, 4-cyanopyridine and 2-cyanopyridine underwent consecutive hydrolysis to the corresponding pyridinecarboxamides and picolinic acids. Further decarboxylation to pyridine was observed for 2-cyanopyridine hydrolysis. Experiments at different initial reactant concentrations revealed that these compounds exhibited the first-order kinetics. Experiments at different temperatures showed that the first-order rate constants displayed an Arrhenius behavior with activation energies of 74.3, 40.3, and 83.7 kJ mol−1 for 3-cyanopyridine, 4-cyanopyridine, 2-cyanopyridine, respectively. The activation energies obtained for 3-pyridinecarboxamide, 4-pyridinecarboxamide and 2-pyridinecarboxamide hydrolysis are 80.1, 32.7, and 70.5 kJ mol−1, respectively. The effect of substituent position on activation energies for cyanopyridine and pyridinecarboxamide hydrolysis is ortho ≈ meta > para. © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Int J Chem Kinet 44: 641–648, 2012
The determination of nicotinamide as 3-cyanopyridine after dehydration by heptafluorobutyric anhydride (HFB) was performed by gas-liquid chromatography (GLC) with flame ionization detection (GLC-FID) and a column of 5% OV-17 on Chromosorb W AW DMCS at 130 degrees C. Determination was possible with 3-100 micrograms of the dehydrated reaction mixture. The procedure for determining nicotinamide in various meats and meat products involves direct analysis by GLC-FID without a clean-up stage; the detection limit is 5 ppm and the recovery ranged from 93.4 to 104.6% (average 98.0%). Various possible interferents in the samples did not interfere in the production or determination of 3-cyanopyridine. The procedure is suitable for routine use. The dehydrated derivative of nicotinamide was confirmed as 3-cyanopyridine by combined gas chromatography-mass spectrometry and infrared spectrometry.
5-Aminopyrido[3′,2′:4,5]thieno[3,2-c]isoquinolines were synthesized via alkylation of 3-cyanopyridine-2(1H)-thiones with 2-(chloromethyl)benzonitrile followed by treatment of the products with potassium tert-butoxide. The oxidation of the alkylated products to corresponding sulfoxides or sulfones followed by treatment with potassium tert-butoxide provided the corresponding 11-oxides or 11,11-dioxides.
Abstract A green and efficient method for direct preparation of 3-cyanopyridine from aromatic aldehydes is reported. A series of novel 4-aryl-2-amino-6-(naphthalene-1-yl)-3-cyanopyridine derivates were successfully prepared by one-pot synthesis of three-component domino reactions including aromatic aldehydes, 1-acetylnaphthalene, and dicyanomethane in the presence of ammonium acetate in a solution of ethanol under microwave irradiation. This synthetic method for these compounds possesses many advantages including greater yield and shorter reaction times compared with traditional methods. The structures of these compounds were confirmed by means of high-resolution mass spectrometry, 1H NMR, 13C NMR, and infrared. Moreover, the results of their fluorescent spectra showed that these compounds have good fluorescence intensity excited by the visible light wavelength of 416 nm.
An unusual direction has been found for the interaction of alkyl 5,6-dialkyl-2-amino-3-cyanopyridine-4-carboxylates with primary amines leading to the formation of 2,6,7-trialkyl-4-amino-2,3-dihydro-1H-pyrrolo[3,4-c]pyridine-1,3-diones.
Abstract Photolyses of nitrile bonded [Ru(NH 3 ) 5 L] 2+ complexes (L = 2-cyanopyridine (2-NCpy); 3-cyanopyridine (3-NCpy); or 4-cyanopyridine (4-NCpy)) at 365, 404, and 436 nm, were studied in aqueous solution, and lead exclusively to ammonia and cyanopyridine photoaquation. No linkage isomerization to yield the pyridinyl bonded complexes occurs, suggesting that the kinetic control observed for thermal reactions of Ru(II) ammines with nitriles are also operative for the possible transients and intermediates formed following deactivation of the excited states. Ligands photoaquation showed irradiation wavelength independent quantum yields. The 2-NCpy and 3-NCpy complexes have higher L quantum yields and the 4-NCpy have higher ammonia quantum yield. Initial excitation in the 1 MLCT (metal to ligand charge transfer) energy range, is followed by competitive internal conversion and intersystem crossing to one 3 LF (ligand field) state or one 3 LF manifold of excited states of the same configuration, and of lowest energies, from which photoaquation occurs. The results suggest that these states for 2-NCpy and 3-NCpy complexes have more contribution from the z 2 orbital, while for 4-NCpy the x 2 − y 2 have larger contribution.
Abstract Zeeman measurements were performed on the NQR lines of 3-cyanopyridine at room temperature on a single crystal, and the efg principal axes were located. The Z axes at the two nitrogen nuclei pertaining Co the same molecule identified the aromatic plane accurately. The X axis of the cyano nitrogen and the Y axis of the pyridine one were found to be orthogonal to the molecular plane, all other axes lying in such plane. Two physically unequivalent sites were found; all pyridine axes of the two sites were almost (within 4–7°) parallel, and the angle among the Z axes of the two cyano groups was nearly exactly 120°. This strongly suggests that the molecules in the crystal are packed in parallel planes, the aromatic rings being referred by almost purely translational transformations, while the CN groups alternate on either side. The crystal symmetry was found to be monoclinic, although not far from rhombic. Because of the small S/N ratio, together with the low tl value for the cyano nitrogen and the near parallelism of the pyridine sites, methodological innovations had to be introduced, due to the failure of the more usual methods of detection and treatment of the experimental data.
Abstract Silicoaluminophosphate (SAPO) and modified SAPOs, such as Sb–V-SAPO-5, Mo–V-SAPO-5 and Mn–V-SAPO-5, have been prepared. XRD and FT-IR were used to characterize the catalysts and confirm preservation of crystallinity after various treatments. The modified SAPOs are highly active (>90% yield) in the ammoxidation of 4-picoline and 3-picoline (>85%). The crystalline Sb–V-SAPO-5 was more active in the ammoxidation of 3-picoline compared to the amorphous catalysts in current use. The modification by vanadium, and antimony, molybdenum or manganese improved the yield of 4-cyano and 3-cyanopyridine. We have modified proposed V-SAPO-5 molecular sieve as the active catalyst for the ammoxidation of picolines.
A new nitrilase producing strain showing high hydrolyzing activity towards 3-cyanopyridine was isolated from the soil using enrichment technique.Microorganisms were enriched with glycerol as the carbon source and nitriles as nitrogen source.Two different nitriles were used for screening,and it was found out and confirmed that 8 strains isolated dependent on acetonitrile as nitrogen source,can produce arylacetonitrilases,two of which showed 3-cyanopyridine hydrolysing activity;on the other hand,another two strains,compared with those former strains,show exclusive identification towards 3-cyanopyridine,as well as producing aromatic nitrilase when served with 3-cyanopyridine as nitrogen source.The one showing the higher activity towards 3-cyanopyridine is identified as Rhodobacter sp.,the capacity of which for producing nitrilase was first reported.
+N=CHCH2CH2CMe2 2 with 2-cyanopyridine NC5H4(2-CN) 1a in the presence of PdCl 2 at room temperature in acetone gives the ketoimine palladium(II) complex cis-[PdCl2{N(=CCH2CH2C(Me)2NH)C(=O)C5H4N}] 3a containing the (E)-N-(5,5-dimethylpyrrolidin-2-ylidene)picolinamide ligand, in good yield (85%). The reaction of 2 with 3-cyanopyridine NC5H4(3-CN) 1b or 4-cyanopyridine NC5H4(4-CN) 1c under the same experimental conditions gives the simple adducts of cyanopyridines trans-[PdCl2{NC5H4(3-CN)}2] 4b or trans-[PdCl2{NC5H4(4-CN)}2] 4c, respectively. When the cyanopyridines NC5H3R 1 R 2 1 (R 1 = 2-CN, R 2 = H 1a ;R 1 = 3-CN, R 2 = H 1b ;R 1 = 4-CN, R 2 = H 1c ;R 1 = 4-CN, R 2 = 2-Cl 1d ;R 1 = 3-CN, R 2 = 5-Me 1e) are heated at 100 ◦ C for 12 h with 2-butanone oxime (used as a reagent and solvent) in the presence of PdCl2, the 2,4-dipyridyl-1,3,5-triazapentadienate (or bis-imidoylamidinate) palladium(II) complexes [Pd{HN=C(NC5H3R 2 )NC(NC5H3R 2 )=NH}2] 5 (2-NC5H3 ,R 2 = H 5a ;3 -NC 5H3 ,R
New methods for the synthesis of 3-cyanopyridine-2-thiones by the reaction of δ-keto nitroles with sulfur and by condensation of chalcones or benzylideneacetone with cyanothioacetamide are given. The compounds obtained were used in various reactions for the preparation of alkylated products, disulfides, and condensed heterocycles, viz., thieno[2,3-b]pyridines and pyrido[2′,3′:2,3]thieno[4,5-d]-pyrimidines.
The kinetics of replacement of the ligand in the pentacyano(ligand)ferrate(II) ions have been examined for the leaving ligands NN-dimethyl(p-nitroso)aniline, nitrosobenzene, sulphite, and water, respectively, and for the entering ligands nitrosobenzene, 3-cyanopyridine. NN-dimethyl(p-nitroso)aniline, thiocyanate, nitrite, cyanide, and sulphite. Limiting reaction rates, at sufficiently large concentrations, of entering ligand have been observed with all the leaving ligands, except water, where the replacements obey the second-order rate law –d[Fe(CN)5-OH23–]/dt=kY[Fe(CN)5OH23–][Y]. When the entering ligand Y bears no electrical charge, the kY values are very similar and in the range 200–300 I mol–1 s–1 at 25 °C and 1M ionic strength. For singly negatively charged anions kY≃ 40–60, and for the doubly charged SO32– ion kY= 3·3 I mol–1 s–1. The variations in kY are interpreted as being due to variations in diffusion rates since the reactions of the intermediate [Fe(CN)5]3–with the ligands are diffusion controlled.
OBJECTIVE ::: To investigate the biodegradation of nitriles via the nitrilase-mediated pathway. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: A novel nitrilase, BGC4, was identified from proteobacteria Paraburkholderia graminis CD41M and its potential for use in biodegradation of toxic nitriles in industrial effluents was studied. BGC4 was overexpressed in Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3), the recombinant protein was purified and its enzymatic properties analysed. Maximum activity of BGC4 nitrilase was at 30 °C and pH 7.6. BGC4 has a broad substrate activity towards aliphatic, heterocyclic, and aromatic nitriles, as well as arylacetonitriles. Iminodiacetonitrile, an aliphatic nitrile, was the optimal substrate but comparable activities were also observed with phenylacetonitrile and indole-3-acetonitrile. BGC4-expressing cells degraded industrial nitriles, such as acrylonitrile, adiponitrile, benzonitrile, mandelonitrile, and 3-cyanopyridine, showing good tolerance and conversion rates. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: BGC4 nitrilase has wide-spectrum substrate specificity and is suitable for efficient biodegradation of toxic nitriles.
The adducts Zn(AcAc)2·nL [where L = piperazine (pipz), morpholine (morph), piperidine (pipd), pyridine (py), 3-methylpyridine (β-pico), 4-methylpyridine (γ-pico), 3-cyanopyridine (3-cyanopy), 4-cyanopyridine (4-cyanopy), 2,2‘-bipyridine (bipy), or quinoline (quin); n = 1 or 3/2; AcAc = acetylacetonate] were synthesized and characterized by melting points, elemental analysis, thermal studies, and infrared spectroscopy. From calorimetric studies in solution, the mean standard enthalpies of the zinc−nitrogen bonds were determined.
The reactions of N-(2-chloroacetyl)-α-amino acids with 3-cyanopyridine-2(1H)-thiones afforded N-(3-aminothieno[2,3-b]pyridin-2-ylcarbonyl)-α-amino acids. Heating of the latter smoothly produced 3,4-dihydropyrido[3",2":4,5]thieno[3,2-e][1,4]diazepine-2(1H),5-diones in high yields.
The catalytic activity of the inexpensive natural- or potassium fluoride doped phosphates as bases was evaluated in a Vilsmeier-Haack type reaction. High efficiency, in term of chemical yields and reaction rates was found in the preparation of 2-chlor-3-cyanopyridines starting from 2-propylidene-malonitriles.
A bacterial strain 5HP capable of degrading and utilizing 5-hydroxypicolinic acid as the sole source of carbon and energy was isolated from soil. In addition, the isolate 5HP could also utilize 3-hydroxypyridine and 3-cyanopyridine as well as nicotinic, benzoic and p-hydroxybenzoic acids for growth in the basic salt media. On the basis of 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis, the isolate 5HP was shown to belong to the genus Pusillimonas. Both the bioconversion analysis using resting cells and the enzymatic assay showed that the degradation of 5-hydroxypicolinic acid, 3-hydroxypyridine and nicotinic acid was inducible and proceeded via formation of the same metabolite, 2,5-dihydroxypyridine. The activity of a novel enzyme, 5-hydroxypicolinate 2-monooxygenase, was detected in the cell-free extracts prepared from 5-hydroxypicolinate-grown cells. The enzyme was partially purified and was shown to catalyze the oxidative decarboxylation of 5-hydroxypicolinate to 2,5-dihydroxypyridine. The activity of 5-hydroxypicolinate 2-monooxygenase was dependent on O2, NADH and FAD.
Objective To establish a rapid screening method of microorganisms with nitrilase activity from fungi and convert cyanopyridines using the strains obtained. Methods Based on the color change of an indicator due to the pH change during a nitrile-hydrolyzing reaction,a microplate colorimetric pH-responsive method was established for the screening of microorganisms with nitrilase activity.The obtained strain was used to transform 2-cyanopyridine,3-cyanopyridine,4-cyanopyridine and ricinine. Results and Conclusions A screening among 23 strains of fungi using the microplate colorimetric method is performed,and Aspergillus niger 3.795 is found to have nitrilase activity.It shows high activity to 4-cyanopyridine and converted 4-cyanopyridine into pyridine-4-carboxylic acid(isonicotinic acid)by whole cells with a conversion of 85%,no other byproduct is detected.
Abstract A series of organic solid states including three salts, two co-crystals, and three hydrates based on tetrafluoroterephthalic acid (H2tfBDC) and N-bearing ligands (2,4-(1H,3H)-pyrimidine dione (PID), 2,4-dihydroxy-6-methyl pyrimidine (DHMPI), 2-amino-4,6-dimethyl pyrimidine (ADMPI), 2-amino-4,6-dimenthoxy pyrimidine (ADMOPI), 5,6-dimenthyl benzimidazole (DMBI), 2-aminobenzimidazole (ABI), 3,5-dimethyl pyrazole (DMP), and 3-cyanopyridine (3-CNpy)), namely, [(PID)2·(H2tfBDC)] (1), [(DHMPI)2·(H2tfBDC)] (2), [(H-ADMPI+)2·(tfBDC2−)·2(H2O)] (3), [(H-ADMOPI+)2·(tfBDC2−)·(H2O)] (4), [(H-DMBI+)2·(tfBDC2−)·2(H2O)] (5), [(H-ABI+)2·(tfBDC2−)] (6), [(H-DMP+)·(HtfBDC−)] (7), and [(H-3-CNpy+)·(HtfBDC−)] (8), were synthesized by solvent evaporation method. Crystal structures analyses show that the F atom of the H2tfBDC participates in multiple C H⋯F hydrogen bond formations, producing different supramolecular synthons. The weak hydrogen bonding C H⋯F and N H⋯F play an important part in constructing the diversity structures 2–8, except in crystal 1. In complexes 1–3, they present the same synthon R22(8) with different N-heterocyclic compounds, which may show the strategy in constructing the supramolecular. Meanwhile, the complex 3 exhibits a 2D layer, and the independent molecules of water exist in the adjacent layers. In complexes 4 and 5, the water molecules connect the neighboring layers to form 3D network by strong O H⋯O hydrogen bonding. These crystals 1–8 were fully characterized by single-crystal X-ray crystallography, elemental analysis, infrared spectroscopy (IR), and thermogravimetric analysis (TGA).
Cyclopentylidene- and cyclohexylidene(cyano)acetamides reacted with malononitrile and cyano-(thioacetamide) according to the Michael pattern with exchange of the methylene components to give substituted 1-amino-2,6,6-tricyano-1,3-cyclohexadienes and thieno[2,3-d]pyrimidine-4(3H)-thiones. Condensation of cyclopentylidene- and cyclohexylidene(cyano)acetamide with 1,3-dicarbonyl compounds afforded 4,6-di-methyl-3-cyanopyridine-2(1H)-thione and morpholinium 4-methyl-6-oxo-3-cyano-1,6-dihydropyridine-2-thiolate which were converted into substituted 2-alkylsulfanylpyridines, thieno[2,3-b]pyridines, thiazolo[3,2-a]pyridine, and 2H-[1,3]thiazino[3,2-a]pyridine.
A nicotinate dehydrogenase (NaDH) gene cluster was cloned from Comamonas testosteroni JA1. The enzyme, termed NaDH(JA1), is composed of 21, 82, and 46 kDa subunits, respectivley containing [2Fe2S], Mo(V) and cytochrome c domains. The recombinant NaDH(JA1) can catalyze the hydroxylation of nicotinate and 3-cyanopyridine. NaDH(JA1) protein exhibits 52.8% identity to the amino acid sequence of NaDH(KT2440) from P. putida KT2440. Sequence alignment analysis showed that the [2Fe2S] domain in NaDH(JA1) had a type II [2Fe-2S] motif and a type I [2Fe-2S] motif, while the same domain in NaDH(KT2440) had only a type II [2Fe-2S] motif. NaDH(KT2440) had an additional hypoxanthine dehydrogenase motif that NaDH(JA1) does not have. When the small unit of NaDH(JA1) was replaced by the small subunit from NaDH(KT2440), the hybrid protein was able to catalyze the hydroxylation of nicotinate, but lost the ability to catalyze hydroxylation of 3-cyanopyridine. In contrast, after replacement of the small subunit of NaDH(KT2440) with the small subunit from NaDH(JA1), the resulting hybrid protein NaDH(JAS+KTL) acquired the ability to hydroxylate 3-cyanopyridine. The subunits swap results indicate the [2Fe2S] motif determines the 3-cyanopyridine hydroxylation ability, which is evidently different from the previous belief that the Mo motif determines substrate specificity.
The invention relates to a preparation method of nicotinic acid, which comprises the following steps: placing 700-900 parts of 3-cyanopyridine in a container, adding 1600-1800 parts of de-ionized water into the 3-cyanopyridine in the container, and stirring to obtain a solution; dropwisely adding 760-770 parts of 40% sodium hydroxide solution at 90-95 DEG C, and reacting for 58-62 minutes to generate a sodium nicotinate solution; diluting the solution to 15%; passing the 15% sodium nicotinate solution through an ammonium cation exchange resin layer for ion exchange at a flow rate of 300 liters per hour, collecting to obtain an ammonium nicotinate solution; and evaporating the ammonium nicotinate solution to dryness so as to obtain nicotinic acid. In the invention, 3-cyanopyridine used as the raw material reacts with the sodium hydroxide solution used as hydrolytic agent at a temperature above 90 DEG C for 58-62 minutes to obtain sodium nicotinate. Thus, compared with the prior art, the invention overcomes the defects of high equipment requirements and large equipment corrosion of the original technology, and has the advantages of simpler process, more convenient operation, less waste, lower cost and higher conversion rate.
Abstract Screening of culture collection afforded nitrile-utilizing fungi belonging to genera Aspergillus , Talaromyces and Penicillium . Fusarium solani O1 was enriched from soil using 3-cyanopyridine as the sole source of nitrogen. This strain, and Penicillium multicolor CCF 2244 (the best one of the culture collection strains), showed comparable specific benzonitrile-hydrolyzing activities (0.95 and 0.87 μmol of benzoic acid h −1 mg −1 of dry cell weight at 28 °C, respectively). These fungi showed similar substrate specificities for substituted benzonitriles and heterocyclic nitriles but different pH and temperature optima (pH 8 and 38 °C for P. multicolor , pH 7 and 48 °C for F. solani ). Amides as by-products were produced from some heterocyclic nitriles. Both fungi showed an amidase activity for nicotinamide.
Objective Synthesis of new series of 5,6,7,8-tetrahydronaphthalene derivatives conjugated with chalcone, pyridine, pyrazole and isoxazole functionalities hoping to circumvent the unwanted ulcerogenic and other side effects of the already used nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Background Most currently used nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) suffer from limitation in their therapeutic uses, since they cause gastrointestinal and renal side effects related to inhibition of cyclooxygenase1 (Cox1) in tissues where prostaglandins exert physiological effects. Methodology Reaction of 2-acetyl tetralin ( 1 ) with some aromatic aldehydes in the presence of malononitrile yielded 2-amino-3-cyanopyridine derivatives 2a–c . Condensation of compound 1 with aromatic aldehydes afforded the chalcone derivatives 3a–c . Then, compound 3a reacted with hydrazine hydrate or phenyl hydrazine and yielded pyrazoline derivatives 4 or 5 , respectively. Also, the reaction of compound 3c with hydroxylamine hydrochloride afforded the isoxazole derivative 6 . Anti-inflammatory properties of the synthesized compounds were evaluated in vivo utilizing formalin induced paw edema method in rats, analgesic activities were tested via both hot plate and writhing methods. Results Derivatives 2c and 3c revealed promising results when the anti-inflammatory, analgesic, and ulcerogenic activities of the synthesized compounds were evaluated. All of the compounds induced significant central and peripheral analgesia. The derivatives 2a , 2c , 3a , 3b , 3c , 5 , and 6 showed higher activity than the standard ibuprofen.
Ring transformations of 4H-pyrans into pyridines are reported. Treatment of 2-amino-4,6-diaryl-3,5-dicyano-4H-pyrans (I) with nitrosylsulfuric acid brings about their transformation into 3,5-dicyano-4,6-diaryl-2-pyridones (VI) which can also be obtained from α-benzoylcinnamonitriles (IX) and cyanoacetamide. Similarly, 2-amino-4,6-diaryl-5-carbethoxy-3-cyano-4H-pyrans (II) lead to 4,6-diaryl-5-carbethoxy-3-cyano-2-pyridones (VII). Treatment of both series of pyrans with sulfuric acid results in the formation of the corresponding 3,4-dihydro-2-pyridones (IV and V). Reaction of pyrans II with ammonium acetate in acetic acid yields 2-amino-4,6-diaryl-5-carbethoxy-3-cyanopyridines (XII). Pyrans I undergo an entirely different type of reaction upon treatment with this reagent leading to 2,4,6-triaryl-3,5-dicyano-1,4-dihydropyridines (XV).
Reaction of 2-chloromethylquinazoline-4(3H)-one with some 3-cyanopyridine-2(1H)-thiones gave the corresponding thioethers which upon treatment with appropriate base, underwent intramolecular Thorpe-Zeigler reaction affording the isomeric 3-amino-2-(3,4-dihydro-4-oxo-2-quinazolinyl)thieno[2,3-b]pyridines. In contrast, the reaction of 2-chloromethylquinazoline-4(3H)-one with 3-cyanoquinoline-(1H)-thione gave 3amino-2-(3,4-dihydro-4-oxo-2-quinazolinyl)thieno[2,3-b]quinoline directly. Reaction of the resulting aminothienopyridines/quinoline with some reagents namely; acetic anhydride, triethyl orthoformate and/ or nitrous acid were carried out and their products were identified. + Z= Me, Ph
Quinazoline-4(3H)-ones are important class of heterocyclic compounds which possess a broad spectrum of biological and pharmaceutical activities such as antifungal, 1 antitumour, 2 hypotensive, 3 anti-cancer, 4, 5 anti-HIV, 6 anti-inflammatory 7 and anti-bacterial. 8 In particular, quinazoline-4(3H)-ones substituted at 2 and 3position play a pivotal role in the hypotensive activity. [9] [10] [11] Several bio-active natural products such as febrifugine (A) and isofebrifugine (B) contain quinazolinone moieties with potential anti-malarial activity. 12 Pyridine derivatives abundantly exist in nature and they play a vital role in the field of heterocyclic chemistry. 13 Such compounds are widely used for many applications in medicinal science. 14 Many thienopyridines have been synthesized and studied in relation to their biological and pharmacological importance. 15, 16 Some of them proved to possess antiviral, 17, 18 anti-diabetic, 19 antimicrobial, 20, 21 antitumor, 22 antiparasitic, 23 and neurotropic activities. 24 The aforementioned findings prompted us to study the reaction of 2-chloromethylquinazoline-4(3H)-one (1) with tri-substituted 3-cyanopyridine-2(1H)-thiones 2a-d and/ or 3-cyanoquinoline-2(1H)-thione (2e) in order to get novel heterocyclic compounds, incorporating both quinazoline and pyridine moiety together with other pharmacophores such as thiophene, pyrimdine and quinoline nucleus.
Green crystalline salts of substituted pyridinium oxopentachloromolybdates(V) were obtained from concentrated hydrochloric acid solution of molybdenum(V)-thiocyanate extract. (X-py were 4-and 3-cyanopyridine, 2-amino-4-picoline and 4-acetylpyridine) were obtained by reflux of the corresponding substituted pyridinium salts of oxopentachloromolybdates(Ⅴ) in absolute ethanol. ()[]O containing the group are dissolved and hydrolysed in water but are insoluble in water, alcohol and acetone. The complexes are paramagnetic compounds
Abstract Two new series of 4,6-diaryl-3-cyanopyridine 4a - r and 1,3,5-triaryl-2-pyrazolines 6a - f and were prepared. The new compounds were evaluated for their in vitro COX-2 selectivity and in vivo anti-inflammatory activity. Compounds 4o , r and 6d , f had moderate to high selectivity index (S.I.) compared to celecoxib (selectivity indexes of 4.5, 3.14, 4.79 and 3.21, respectively) and also, showed in vivo anti-inflammatory activity approximately equal to or higher than celecoxib (edema inhibition % = 60.5, 64.5, 59.3 and 59.3, after 3 h, respectively) and the effective anti-inflammatory doses were (ED 50 = 10.1, 7.8, 8.46 and 10.7 mg/kg respectively, celecoxib ED 50 = 10.8 mg/kg) and ulcerogenic liability were determined for these compounds which showed promising activity by being more potent than celecoxib with nearly negligible ulcerogenic liability compared to celecoxib (reduction in ulcerogenic liability versus celecoxib = 85, 82, 74 and 67%, respectively).
The use of a catalytic amount of 3-cyanopyridine in the ::: methyltrioxorhenium catalysed epoxidation of terminal alkenes with aqueous ::: hydrogen peroxide speeds turnover, which results in the formation of many ::: functionalized epoxides in high yields.
The objective of the study was to enhance the substrate tolerance of Pseudomonas putida nitrilase via atmospheric and room temperature plasma (ARTP) and cell immobilization. The mutant library was constructed by ARTP and rapidly screened by an OPA-TCA microscale reaction. A mutant strain of mut-D3 was obtained and its optimum substrate concentration was improved to 150mM from 100mM. It could accumulate 189g/L nicotinic acid (NA) from 3-cyanopyridine (3-CP), which was increased by 42% compared with that of wild type (WT). Additionally, composite immobilization of mut-D3 was performed and SA-PVA immobilized cells could catalyze 250mM 3-CP each batch with finally accumulating 346g/L NA, while free cells accumulated 175g/L NA. These results indicated that the free or immobilized catalysts of mut-D3 could serve as a good choice for NA production. This is the first report on mutation breeding of nitrilase-producing microorganisms by ARTP.
We have been studying aldoxime-degrading enzyme, not only to clarify the microbial metabolism of aldoxime but also to apply the enzyme to organic synthesis. We screened for various aldoxime-degrading microorganisms from soil and isolated a bacterium, Rhodococcus sp. strain YH3-3, capable of utilizing (E )-pyridine-3-aldoxime as a nitrogen source, after a 4-month acclimatization [20] and used it for nitrile synthesis under mild conditions [21] . The strain had a novel aldoxime dehydratase that catalyses a stoichiometric dehydration of (E )-pyridine-3-aldoxime to form 3-cyanopyridine (3-CP); the enzyme was induced by various aldoximes and nitriles. The strain metabolized the aldoxime as follows: (E )-pyridine-3-aldoxime was dehydrated to form 3-CP, which was converted into nicotinamide with a nitrile hydratase, and the nicotinamide was successively hydrolysed to nicotinic acid by an amidase [20] . To elucidate a possible relationship between aldoxime dehydratase and nitrile degrading enzymes and to clarify the reaction mechanisms of the enzyme, here we report the purification and characterization of nitrile hydratase involved in aldoxime metabolism from the strain and compare its enzyme properties with those of nitrile hydratases from various microorganisms.
The polymerization of methyl methacrylate (MMA) by the catalysts systems of tributylborane (TBB) with pyridine and its derivatives, such as hydroxypyridine, cyanopyridine, nicotinic acid, nicotinamide, nicotinic ester, picoline, lutidine and quinoline was studied. The relative initiating activities of the pyridine and its derivatives were found to be in the following order: nicotinic acid> nicotinic ester> nicotinamide> pyridine>3-hydroxypyridine>3-cyanopyridine> quinoline > 3-picoline > acridine > 2, 6-lutidine In the polymerization of MMA initiated by TBB/methyl nicotinate (MN) system, the rate of polymerization was found to be proportional to the concentration of MMA and to the square root of TBB/MN concentrations, respectively, and the apparent activation energy was 4.1 kcal/ mol. And the reaction of TBB with pyridine was also studied by NMR and ESR methods. From these results, it was found that the polymerization proceeds via a radical mechanism involving a co-ordination between TBB and pyridine or its derivatives.
Irradiation of a benzene solution of 2-alkoxy-3-cyanopyridines in the presence of 2-cyanofuran gave 4+4 photoadducts in good yields, and the structure was established by X-ray single crystal analysis.
3-Cyanopyridine-2(1H)-thiones have been shown to react with Biginelli-type ethyl 4-aryl-6-(bromomethyl)-2-oxo-1,2,3,4-tetrahydropyrimidine-5-carboxylates upon heating in DMF giving rise to ethyl 4-aryl-6-{[(3-cyanopyridin-2-yl)thio]methyl}-2-oxo-1,2,3,4-tetrahydropyrimidine-5-carboxylates. The latter upon treatment with an excess of NaH or t-BuOK in boiling DMF undergo a tandem Thorpe–Ziegler-type heterocyclization to give pyrido[3″,2″:4′,5′]thieno[2′,3′:5,6]pyrido[4,3-d]pyrimidine derivatives in good yields. Selected compounds were tested for antibacterial and antifungal activity.
3-cyanopyridine was hydrated to nicotinamide by whole cells ofBrevibacterium R-312 containing nitrile hydratase. Cells used for kinetic studies had an initial activity of 0.30 mg nicotinamide/mg cells(dry)-min and storage half-lives (pH 8) of approximately 100 days, 10 days, 5 days and less than 1 day at 4°C, 10°C, 25°C, and 30°C respectively. Temperature and pH maxima were 35°C and 8.0, respectively. Fermentations gave a maximum total hydratase activity of 1.25 mg nicotinamide/min, but at this maximum the amidase activity was unacceptably high (25% of the hydratase activity): nicotinamide was converted too rapidly to nicotinic acid. But systematic fermentation studies (7 1) showed that harvesting at mid-log phase (18–20 h) prior to the attainment of maximum total activity gave reasonably high levels of hydratase (0.3 mg nicotinamide/mg cells-min) and acceptable levels of amidase (0.03 mg nicotinic acid/mg cells-min).
An improved synthetic process of 2-chloronicotinic acid was reported based on reviewing its synthetic processes in detail.3-cyanopyridine was oxidized to nicotinic acid N-oxide using molybdenyl acetylacetonate as catalyst,and then chloridized to give the title product 2-chloronicotinic acid through chlorination by POCl3 in presence of organic base and phenyl dichlorophosphate(PDCP).The total yield of 2-chloronicotinic acid was 95%.
Aspergillus niger K10 cultivated on 2-cyanopyridine produced high levels of an intracellular nitrilase, which was partially purified (18.6-fold) with a 24% yield. The N-terminal amino acid sequence of the enzyme was highly homologous with that of a putative nitrilase from Aspergillus fumigatus Af293. The enzyme was copurified with two proteins, the N-terminal amino acid sequences of which revealed high homology with those of hsp60 and an ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme. The nitrilase exhibited maximum activity (91.6 U mg-1) at 45°C and pH 8.0. Its preferred substrates, in the descending order, were 4-cyanopyridine, benzonitrile, 1,4-dicyanobenzene, thiophen-2-acetonitrile, 3-chlorobenzonitrile, 3-cyanopyridine, and 4-chlorobenzonitrile. Formation of amides as by-products was most intensive, in the descending order, for 2-cyanopyridine, 4-chlorobenzonitrile, 4-cyanopyridine, and 1,4-dicyanobenzene. The enzyme stability was markedly improved in the presence of d-sorbitol or xylitol (20% w/v each). p-Hydroxymercuribenzoate and heavy metal ions were the most powerful inhibitors of the enzyme.
Rate constants are reported for substitution at the pentacyanoferrate(II) ions [Fe(CN)5L]3−, where L=3,5-dimethylpyridine or 3-cyanopyridine, in binary aqueous mixed solvents containing up to 60vol% 1,2-ethanediol, 1,2-butanediol, methanol or ethanol. Trends for diol-containing mixtures are compared with those for monohydroxylic alcohols, and the reactivity pattern for these complexes is compared with those established earlier for base hydrolysis of tris(1,10-phenanthroline)iron(II) and for the aquation of cis-dichloro-bis- (1,2-ethanediamine)cobalt(III). The solvatochromic behaviour of several pentacyanoferrate(II) ions has been established in binary aqueous mixtures containing 1,2-ethanediol, 1,2-butanediol, 1,4-butanediol and 1,2-pentanediol. A correlation between reactivity and solvatochromism is presented.
Abstract Synthesis of the 2-amino-4-phenyl-6- (isocoumarin-3-yl) -3-cyanopyridine (APICP) containing both isocoumarin and pyridine ring in its structure was carried out, and this compound was characterized by ATR-FTIR, 1 H NMR, and 13 C NMR spectral techniques. A fluorescence sensor determining Hg 2+ and Fe 3+ ions in DMSO/HEPES buffer solution (9/1 v/v, 5 μM, pH 7.0) was developed using the synthesized compound, and the detection limits of the sensor with exquisite selectivity were calculated as 8.12 nM and 5.51 nM for Hg 2+ and Fe 3+ ions, respectively. Jobs plot method was used to determine the stoichiometry of APICP-Hg 2+ /Fe 3+ complexes as 2:1 and FT-IR and ESI-MS methods confirmed the results. Besides, cell growth inhibitory potentials of the sensor over HepG2 cells and in vivo fluorescent cell imaging experiments were conducted. Findings revealed the relatively low cytotoxic effects of the synthesized sensor (IC 50 : 0.541 ± 0.039 mM), and it could be utilized as an intracellular imaging agent for the determination of Fe 3+ and Hg 2+ ions in biological systems.
Nitrile hydratases (NHases) have attracted considerable attention owing to their application in the synthesis of valuable amides under mild conditions. However, the poor stability of NHases is still one of the main drawbacks for their industrial application. Recently, mesoporous metal–organic frameworks (MOFs) have been explored as an attractive support material for immobilizing enzymes. Here, we encapsulated a recombinant cobalt-type NHase from Aurantimonas manganoxydans into the cobalt-based MOF ZIF-67 by a biomimetic mineralization strategy. The nano-catalyst NHase1229@ZIF-67 shows high catalytic activity for the hydration of 3-cyanopyridine to nicotinamide, and its specific activity reached 29.5 U mg−1. The NHase1229@ZIF-67 nanoparticles show a significant improvement in the thermal stability of NHase1229. The optimum reaction temperature of NHase1229@ZIF-67 is at 50–55 °C, and it still retained 40% of the maximum activity at 70 °C. However, the free NHase1229 completely lost its catalytic activity at 70 °C. The half-lives of NHase1229@ZIF-67 at 30 and 40 °C were 102.0 h and 26.5 h, respectively. NHase1229@ZIF-67 nanoparticles exhibit an excellent cycling performance, and their catalytic efficiency did not significantly decrease in the initial 6 cycles using 0.9 M 3-cyanopyridine as the substrate. In a fed-batch reaction, NHase1229@ZIF-67 can efficiently hydrate 3-cyanopyridine to nicotinamide, and the space–time yield was calculated to be 110 g·L−1·h−1. Therefore, the cobalt-type NHase was immobilized in MOF ZIF-67, which is shown as a potential nanocatalyst for the large-scale industrial preparation of nicotinamide.
The structures of the α-host complex, Ni(NCS)2(3-cyanopyridine)4, 1, and its clathrates with EtOH, 2, and CH2Cl2, 3, have been elucidated. The enthalpies of the guest release reaction have been determined by applying the Clausius–Clapeyron equation to the guest vapour pressure vs. temperature data for the thermal decomposition of the solid inclusion compounds. XRPD and thermal analysis studies show the sorption–desorption process 1↔3, and the guest exchange reactions 2↔3, to be fully reversible.
Substituted pyrido,[3',2':4,5]thieno[3,2-b]pyndines were obtained by the reaction of 3-amino-2-benzoylthieno [2,3-b]pyridines with malononitrile and the reaction of 3-cyanopyridine-2(IH)-thiones with 2-aryl-3-bromo-I,I-dicyanopropene. 2-Amino-4-(4-bromophenyl)-7, 9-dimethyl-3-cyanopyrido [3',2':4,5]thieno[3, 2-b]-pyridine was used for the synthesis of a derivative of pyrido[3",2":4', 5']thieno[2',3':5,6]pyrido[2,3-d]-pyrimidine. The structure of these compounds was confirmed by spectral data and x-ray diffraction structural analysis.
The reaction of isomeric tetrachlorocyanopyridines and pentachloropyridine with potassium isopropyltrithiocarbonate was investigated. It was found that the structure and composition of the reaction products depend both on the initial polychloropyridines and on the solvent in which the process is carried out. The intramolecular transformations of the isopropyltrithiocarbonate derivatives of tetrachloro-2-cyanopyridine in acetonitrile solution lead to 1,3-dithiolo[4,5-c]pyridines. In other cases heterocyclization was not observed. If the reactions were conducted in ethanol (except with tetrachloro-3-cyanopyridine) thioalkylation of the pyridine ring occurred.
Nitrile hydratase which catalyzes the hydration of nitriles to the corresponding amides is operon-encoded. However, when heterologously expressed, genes in the same operon are usually not equally expressed, and the ratio needs to be fine-tuned. A gene cluster of three genes (corresponding to α-subunit, β-subunit and activator) encoding the nitrile hydratase was cloned from Aurantimonas manganoxydans ATCC BAA-1229 and expressed in Escherichia coli. However, difficulty was encountered in heterologous expression of the activator and the expression level of β-subunit was lower than that of α-subunit, which together resulted in low catalytic efficiency. To improve the expression of activator, a set of SKIK tags were fused to the N-terminus of the activator. To elevate the expression level of β-subunit, a silent mutation strategy was applied in the overlapping sequence with α-subunit around its translation initial region. Finally, the expression of β-subunit and activator were improved and the maximum activity of NHase1229 was doubled, reaching 160 U/mL towards 3-cyanopyridine. These results indicate that N-terminal engineering is an efficient strategy for optimizing the expression of multiple genes in operons.
Disclosed is a preparation method for nicotinamide, comprising the following steps: adding 3-cyanopyridine into water to prepare a solution; mixing 3-cyanopyridine and sodium hydroxide according to a molar ratio of 25 to 30:1 and standing the mixture for reaction at a temperature of 70 to 75 DEG C so as to obtain a crude nicotinamide solution containing nicotinic acid and sodium nicotinate; allowing the crude nicotinamide solution to enter into a polar water end container of an electrically driven membrane separation device and pure water to enter into a raw water end container; offering a direct electric field so as to enable anion and cation in the solution to move along a certain direction; detecting conductivity of the solution in a light chamber at intervals; evaporating to dry the solution in the light chamber when the conductivity is 33 to 41 uS/cm so as to obtain a white nicotinamide finished product. According to the invention, the perm-selectivity of an electrically driven membrane under the action of a direct electric field is utilized, conductivity of the solution in the polar water end container is gradually reduced to obtain the nicotinamide solution in the polar water end container, and the nicotinamide solution is condensed and dried; therefore, the finished product of nicotinamide which meets the standard of United States Pharmacopeia is finally obtained.
Escherichia coli strains expressing different nitrilases transformed nitriles or KCN. Six nitrilases (from Aspergillus niger (2), A. oryzae, Neurospora crassa, Arthroderma benhamiae, and Nectria haematococca) were arylacetonitrilases, two enzymes (from A. niger and Penicillium chrysogenum) were cyanide hydratases and the others (from P. chrysogenum, P. marneffei, Gibberella moniliformis, Meyerozyma guilliermondi, Rhodococcus rhodochrous, and R. ruber) preferred (hetero)aromatic nitriles as substrates. Promising nitrilases for the transformation of industrially important substrates were found: the nitrilase from R. ruber for 3-cyanopyridine, 4-cyanopyridine and bromoxynil, the nitrilases from N. crassa and A. niger for (R,S)-mandelonitrile, and the cyanide hydratase from A. niger for KCN and 2-cyanopyridine.
A series of novel 2,6-diaryl-4-(1H-indol-3-yl)-3-cyanopyridines was obtained in good yields from the domino reactions of 3-(1H-indol-3-yl)-3-oxopropanenitrile, 4,4,4-trifluoro-1-phenylbutane-1,3-dione, and aromatic aldehydes in the presence of ammonium acetate under solvent-free condition. This transformation involves the formation of two CC and two CN bonds leading to the creation of a six-membered ring in a one-pot operation.
A polymer-protected palladium colloid (Pd/PVP, PVP = poly-N-vinylpyrrolidone) has been used to catalyze H−D exchange between the D2O solvent and pyridine, substituted pyridines, and related N-heterocycles. Within a few hours under ambient conditions, significant exchange at the positions adjacent (α) to the endocyclic nitrogen was observed for 4-dimethylaminopyridine, 4-methoxypyridine, 4-methylpyridine, pyridine, and quinoline. H−D exchange was observed also for the methyl group in 4-methylpyridine and for the fused-ring H8 position in quinoline. N-Methylimidazole was rapidly and selectively deuterated at the H2 position. Nonselective deuteration was observed at various ring positions (but not the methyl group) for 3-methylpyridine. The presence of a β substituent in 3-cyanopyridine and nicotinic acid hindered H−D exchange at the adjacent α (H2) site, but significant deuteration was observed for the second α position (H6). Portions of the 2- and 4-vinylpyridine samples underwent rapid hydrogenation to 2-...
Samples of air-dried and heated Ni2+- and Al3+-exchanged bentonite (SWy-2) have been exposed to 3-cyanopyridine (3CYP) vapour for six days. The resulting intercalates were studied using variable temperature XRD, DRIFTS, thermogravimetry (TG) and TG-MS. The amount of water co-adsorbed with 3CYP did not influence the initial 13.2 A spacing of the Al3+-complex but the d-spacing of the heated Ni2+-sample was ca. 5 A less that the 21.5 A spacing of its air-dried counterpart. This difference in layer spacings suggests that 3CYP adopts an arrangement in which the plane of the aromatic ring is parallel with the aluminosilicate layer in the Al3+-clay whereas in the Ni2+-form the plane of the ring is perpendicular to the clay surface. TG-MS confirmed that 3CYP and water were the major species desorbed from all samples and that the contraction in the d-spacing upon heating the Ni2+-3CYP complex arose from loss of these species. The appearance of a band near 1680 cm−1 in the VT-DRIFTS spectra at temperatures above 150 °C indicated the formation of amide(s). Correlation with TG-MS data confirmed the transformation of small quantities of 3CYP to nicotinamide. Some 3CYP was protonated in the Al3+-samples.
Condensation of 2-hydroxymethylenecyclopentan-1-one or -cyclooctan-1-one sodium salts with cyanothioacetamide afforded 5,6-polymethylene-3-cyanopyridine-2(1H)-thiones which were regioselectively alkylated at the sulfur atom by alkyl halides. Derivatives of 3-cyanopyridine-2(1H)-thione and 2-alkylthio-3-cyanopyridine were used for regioselective synthesis of substituted heterocycles: 3-aminothieno[2,3-b]pyridines, pyrido[2,3∶2′,3′]thieno[4,5-d]pyrimidines, and pyrido[2,3∶2′,3′]thieno[4,5-d]oxazines.
Abstract The cell free extract from the nitrile-hydrolyzing strain Aspergillus niger K10 (0.25 mg of protein) was adsorped onto a 1 mL HiTrap Butyl Sepharose column. The benzonitrile-hydrolyzing activity of the immobilized enzyme (about 1.6 U/mg of protein) was stable at pH 8 and 35 °C within the examined period (4 h). The enzyme load on the above column was increased 18 times in order to achieve high nitrile conversion. This enzyme preparation was used for the conversion of 3-cyanopyridine and 4-cyanopyridine under the above conditions. The initial substrate conversion was nearly quantitative. The activity was fairly stable; the conversion of 3-cyanopyridine decreased to 70% after 15 h, while the conversion of 4-cyanopyridine was 60% of the initial value after 39 h. The former substrate was converted into nicotinic acid and nicotinamide (molar ratio approximately 16:1) and the latter one into isonicotinic acid and isonicotinamide (molar ratio approximately 3:1).
An unusual route has been found for the hydrolysis of 3-amino-1,1-dialkoxy-6,7-dialkyl-4-aryl-3a,4,5,7a-tetrahydro-1H-pyrrolo[3,4-c]pyridine-3a,7a-dicarbonitriles in acidic medium which leads to the formation of alkyl 5,6-dialkyl-2-amino-3-cyanopyridine-4-carboxylates.
A nitrile-converting enzyme activity was induced in Aspergillus niger K10 by 3-cyanopyridine. The whole cell biocatalyst was active at pH 3–11 and hydrolyzed the cyano group into acid and/or amide functions in benzonitrile as well as in its meta- and para-substituted derivatives, cyanopyridines, 2-phenylacetonitrile and thiophen-2-acetonitrile. Amides constituted a significant part of the total biotransformation products of 2- and 4-cyanopyridine, 4-chlorobenzonitrile, 4-tolunitrile and 1,4-dicyanobenzene, while α-substituted acrylonitriles gave amides as the sole products
1. ::: ::: Condensation of the sodium salts of 3-aryl-1-hydroxypropene-1-ones-3 with cyanoace-tamide proceeds regioselectively with the formation of 6-aryl-3-cyanopyridine-2(1H)-thiones which are used in the synthesis of thieno[2,3-b]pyridine and thiazolo[3,2-a]pyridinium cations. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: The structure of 2,2′-bis[6-(2,4-dimethoxyphenyl)-3-cyanopyridine-2] disulfide has been established unequivocally by an x-ray diffraction study. The molecule is structured from two approximately planar fragments joined by a disulfide bridge with CSSC torsion angle = 83.5(2)° and S-S bond length=2.015(1) A.
It was determined by 13C NMR spectroscopy that the reaction of tetrachloro-3-cyanopyridine with anilines occurs with the formation of isomeric 6- and 4-(arylamino)trichloro-3-cyanopyridines. It was shown that the nucleophilic properties of the anilines do not affect the ratio of the isomers that are formed in the reaction.
Abstract Photoelectron spectra of 2−, 3−, and 4-aminopyridines and 2−, 3−, and 4− cyanopyridines were measured and assigned. The second highest occupied orbitals of the aminopyridines and 2− and 3-cyanopyridines and the highest occupied orbital of 4-cyanopyridine were concluded to be the lone pair orbital of the ring nitrogen.
Two metal free organic dyes (TPCTh and TPCRh) with D–A–π–A configuration, having 3-cyanopyridine as an auxiliary acceptor and thiophene π-linkers along with a triphenylamine donor and cyanoacetic acid/rhodanine-3-acetic acid anchoring groups, were successfully synthesized and utilized as sensitizers in the fabrication of dye-sensitized solar cells (DSSCs). The opto-electronic properties of TPCTh and TPCRh were compared with the model sensitizer CCTh having carbazole as the donor and cyanoacetic acid as the anchoring group. Both the dyes showed red shifted absorption spectra compared to the standard CCTh dye. Also, TPCRh showed a broader absorption spectrum with a reduced band gap compared to TPCTh. However, theoretical studies indicate that the unavailability of excited state conjugation over the anchoring group could lead to restricted charge injection for the TPCRh dye, whereas the TPCTh dye exhibits complete conjugation over the entire molecule. The photovoltaic performance of the TPCTh dye was found to be better compared with the standard CCTh sensitizer as a result of better absorption contributed by the lower band gap in TPCTh leading to improved photon-light conversion and thus an improved Jsc of 11 mA cm−2 over the 7.12 mA cm−2 of CCTh. In addition, lifetime measurements corroborated a lower electron lifetime for TPCRh compared to TPCTh and CCTh.
Abstract 2-Amino-3-cyanopyridine is a simple precursor for the synthesis of analogues of Egyptian natural products visnagin and khellin. Fused pyrido[2,3-d]pyrimidines were prepared under mild reaction conditions. The detailed syntheses and spectroscopic data of the synthesised compounds are reported. Some isolated compounds show antibacterial and antifungal activity.
In the present research, the eggshell as a hazardous waste by European Union regulations was converted to a valuable catalyst, namely nano-Fe3O4@(HSO4)2. The as-prepared catalyst, first, was characterized using different techniques, including Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR), X-ray diffraction (XRD), energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX), field emission scanning electron microscopy (FESEM), and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Back-titration method confirmed the loading of a high surface density of acidic group, namely 8.8 mmol HSO4 per gram of the catalyst. The catalytic property of the as-prepared catalyst was examined in the synthesis of 2-amino-3-cyanopyridines via anomeric-based oxidation (ABO), and hexahydroquinolines derivatives. High yield, short reaction time, solvent-free condition, waste to wealth, and optimization with the design of experiment are the major advantages of the present work. Taken together, these results suggest the conversion of waste to wealth products around the world and usage in organic transformation.
The invention provides a preparation method of high purity nicotinamide and nicotinic acid. In an ethanol and water system and in the presence of NaOH and MnO2, 3-cyanopyridine hydrolyzes to obtain high content of nicotinamide and nicotinic acid by adjusting the ratio of ethanol and water. When ethanol and water are in the weight ratio of 19:1, 3-cyanopyridine hydrolyzes to obtain is 99.5% of nicotinamide, and the yield is higher than 95%; and when the ethanol and water are in the weight ratio of 1:9, the 3-cyanopyridine hydrolyzes to obtain 99.5% of nicotinic acid, and the yield is more than 95%. The method has the characteristics of mild reaction conditions, high product purity and high yield; and only by adjusting the content of ethanol, high purity nicotinamide and nicotinic acid are obtained. At the same time, the method has less waste and less pollution, and is beneficial for industrialized production.
The Cu2(3-Ibz)4(L)2 paddlewheel unit (3-Ibz = 3-iodobenzoate) has been synthesised with a series axial ligands L, that are either nonlinear (L2 = pyrimidine), asymmetric (L = 2,6-dimethylpyrazine, 3-cyanopyridine, 4-cyanopyridine) or hydrogen bond-enabled (L = nicotinamide, MeOH). The crystal structures of these compounds have been used to investigate the potential competition or cooperation between coordination bond, halogen bond and hydrogen bond formation in the propagation of network structures comprising these building blocks. In all but one example the paddlewheel unit was formed. Propagation of the resulting networks via the axial ligand results in hydrogen-bonded networks where strong hydrogen bonding groups are available, but in other cases leads to a coordination network, a halogen-bonded network, or a network propagated via π–π interactions. In all but two of the seven crystal structures reported halogen bonds involving the iodobenzoate ligands are formed, typically propagating networks in orthogonal directions to that involving the axial ligands.
NiM(NCS)6, [NiL4][M(NCS)6], and [NiL6][M(NCS)6] (M = Sn(IV), Ti(IV); L = pyridine (py), 3-cyanopyridine (cpy), nicotinamide (nia), ethylnicotinate (ent), and ethylenediamine (en)) have been prepared and characterised by elemental analysis, magnetic moment, and infrared and electronic spectral studies. These studies suggest a thiocyanate bridged structure for NiM(NCS)6 and a cationic–anionic structure for [NiL4][M(NCS)6] and [NiL6][M(NCS)6].
Data published over the last 10 years on the synthesis, reactivity, and biological activity of 3-cyanopyridine-2(1H)-chalcogenones are reviewed.
Photooxyganation of aminocyanopyridines 3a-c gave the corresponding 2-amino-3-cyanopyridine bearing -unsaturated-1,4-dicarbonyl unit that otherwise can not be constructed in one single operation. To the best of our knowledge, these compounds are not known in the literature and can be taken for further structural manipulation to prepare a new series of structurally polyfunctional compunds for drug discovery research.
A convenient route to novel 3-iodo-1H-pyrazolo[3,4-b]pyridines via iododediazonation of 3-amino-1H-pyrazolo[3,4-b]pyridines, which are obtained by copper-catalysed cyclisation of 2-chloro-3-cyanopyridine with hydrazines. We describe also efficient coupling reactions from 3-iodo derivatives with various reagents according to Suzuki, Heck, Stille, and Sonogashira conditions.
A simple and efficient method is developed for the rapid synthesis of 2-amino-3-cyanopyridines 3–5 from arylidenemalanonitriles 1 and ketones 2 or 4 in presence of ammonium acetate without solvent/containing traces of solvent under microwave irradiation:reaction times are considerably reduced with improved yields as compared to those obtained under classical heating.
3-Oxoisothiazolo[5,4-b]pyridines were synthesized for the first time by the reaction of 3-cyanopyridine-2-thiones or bis(3-cyanopyridyl) disulfides with concentrated sulfuric acid. It is demonstrated that 3-carbamoylpyridine-2-thiones are formed as intermediates. The 3-oxoisothiazolopyridines were converted to 3-bromoisothiazolopyridines and pyridine-2-thiones. The bromination of pyridine-2-thione was studied.
As part of our investigations on compounds of great pharmacological interest [1] , in this work we have studied M. J. Márquez et al. 2 from a theoretical point of view the structures and vibrational properties of the 2-hydroxy-4,6-dimethylpyridine-3-carbonitrile and 2-chloro-4,6-dimethylpyridine-3-carbonitrile compounds. These cyanopyridine derivatives play a very important role in the synthesis chemistry organic and, in medicine and pharmacology because these compounds present potential anticancer, antiarrhythmic, anticonvulsant, antiparkinsonian and antimicrobial activities [2] - [8] . Recently, Waly et al. have reported the synthesis and antitumor evaluation of some new fused and binary pyridines together with a modified synthetic method for the synthesis of 2-chloro-4,6-dimethyl-nicotinonitrile [2] . In other studies, the synthesis and antiarrhythmic activities of some synthesized pyridine derivatives fused with thiophene ring were also reported while new pyridine derivatives were synthesized and evaluated as analgesic, anticonvulsant and anti-parkinsonian agents [4] . Besides, derivatives as the thieno [2,3-d] pyrimidines can be used to eliminate fungi in plants [9] and to inhibit the growth of cancer cells [10] while some thiopyridines and carbonitrile compounds are also used as insecticides [11] - [13] . All these studies clearly show that the modifications in the pyridine structure by incorporation of different groups and/or rings produce different biochemical behavior and biological activity that are evidenced by different structure-activity relationships (SAR). Hence, the studies of the structural properties of these derivatives are important to predict their reactivities and behavior in different media and systems which are present, especially when these compounds are used as pharmacological drugs for the health human. Furthermore, the knowing of its structures is also very important because it permits their quickly identifications by means of vibrational spectroscopy. So far, the crystal and molecular structures of both compounds were not determined and only the structure of 2-anilino-4,6-dimethylpyridine-3-carbonitrile, an intermediate in the synthesis of 5-aminobenzo [b] [1] [8] naphthyridines was published by Mefetah et al. [14] . On the other hand, the crystal structure of 4-cyanopyridine was determined by Laing et al. [15] from three-dimensional single crystal X-ray data collected by standard film techniques while the structure of the 4-cyanopyridinium dihydrogen phosphate-isonicotinonitrile-phosphoric acid compound was refined by Wang [16] who has determined that this compound has a asymmetric unit because it contains one 4-cyanopyridinium cation, one 2 4 H PO − anion, one independent isonicotinonitrile molecule and one independent H 3 PO 4 molecule. Also, from long time the cyano group structure in 3-cyanopyridinium tetrachloroferrate (III)-3-cyanopyridine was determined by Daran et al. [17] by X-ray diffraction method. In the present work, we presented the structural and vibrational studies of the 2-hydroxy-4,6-dimethylpyridine-3-carbonitrile and 2-chloro-4,6-dimethylpyridine-3-carbonitrile compounds in order to, 1) determine their theoretical and more stable structures in gas and aqueous solution phases, 2) perform complete assignments of the corresponding infrared and Raman spectra, 3) evaluate their structural properties in gas and aqueous solution phases and, 4) predict the behavior of both molecules in gas and aqueous solution phases by using diverse descriptors [18] [19] . For those purposes, first, both structures were optimized in gas and aqueous solution phases using the hybrid B3LYP/6-31G * method and the solvent effects in aqueous solution were studied by using the self-consistent reaction field (SCRF) calculations with the IEFPCM model [20] . Then, the corresponding frequencies were calculated at the same level of theory in order to perform the complete assignments of all the bands observed in the vibrational spectra combining the natural internal coordinates with the scaled mechanical force field (SQMFF) procedure [21] . Additionally, molecular electrostatic potentials (MEP), highest occupied molecular orbital-lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (HOMO-LUMO) [22] , natural bond orbital (NBO) [23] [24] and atoms in the molecules (AIM) [25] [26] calculations were performed in order to evaluate the structural properties such as, electrostatic potentials, atomic charges, bond orders, stabilization energies, topological properties and solvation energies in both media, and to predict the properties of the two compounds in both media. Here, the structural and vibrational properties of both compounds were compared and analyzed.
Abstract Five new compounds with the compositions [Cd(NCS)2(3-cyanopyridine)2]n · 3-cyanopyridine (1), [Cd(NCS)2(3-cyanopyridine)2]n · 1/3 3-cyanopyridine (2), [Cd(NCS)2(3-cyanopyridine)2]n (3), {[Cd(NCS)2]2(3-cyanopyridine)3}n (4), and {[Cd(NCS)2]3(3-cyanopyridine)4}n (5) have been obtained by the reaction of Cd(NCS)2 with 3-cyanopyridine in different solvents. While large amounts of compounds 1–4 could be prepared as powders, only a few single crystals of 5 were accidently obtained. Thermoanalytical investigations have shown that 4 could also be obtained by annealing of 1 or 2 and that under slightly different conditions 5 could be obtained as part of a mixture with 4. The crystal structures of all compounds can be divided in two sets of compounds. Compounds 1, 2 and 3 consist of chains in which the Cd cations show three different coordination environments and in which the coligands are only terminally bonded. In the structures of 4 and 5 similar chains are observed, which are connected into layers via some of the 3-cyanopyridine coligands.
Nitrilases are of commercial interest in the selective synthesis of carboxylic acids from nitriles. Nitrilase induction was achieved here in three bacterial strains through the incorporation of a previously unrecognised and inexpensive nitrilase inducer, dimethylformamide (DMF), during cultivation of two Rhodococcus rhodochrous strains (ATCC BAA-870 and PPPPB BD-1780), as well as a closely related organism (Pimelobacter simplex PPPPB BD-1781). Benzonitrile, a known nitrilase inducer, was ineffective in these strains. Biocatalytic product profiling, enzyme inhibition studies and protein sequencing were performed to distinguish the nitrilase activity from that of sequential nitrile hydratase-amidase activity. The expressed enzyme, a 40-kDa protein with high sequence similarity to nitrilase protein Uniprot Q-03217, hydrolyzed 3-cyanopyridine to produce nicotinic acid exclusively in strains BD-1780 and BD-1781. These strains were capable of synthesising both the vitamin nicotinic acid as well as β-amino acids, a compound class of pharmaceutical interest. The induced nitrilase demonstrated high enantioselectivity (> 99%) in the hydrolysis of 3-amino-3-phenylpropanenitrile to the corresponding carboxylic acid.
The title compound, [Ru 2 (CH 3 CO 2 ) 4 (C 6 H 4 N 2 ) 2 ]PF 6 ÁC 2 H 4 Cl 2 , was obtained via a rapid substitution reaction in 2-propanol whereby 3-cyanopyridine replaces the axial water molecules in the diaquatetra--acetato-diruthenium(II,III) hexafluoridophosphate starting material. The product rapidly precipated and crystals were grown from 1,2-dichloroethane. The 1,2-dichloroethane molecule of solvation exhibits disorder with two different orientations [occupancy ratio 0.51 (6):0.49 (6)]. All three parts, the cation, the anion and the disordered solvent molecule lie on crystallographic inversion centers. The Ru-Ru bond length of 2.2702 (6) Å fits nicely into the range seen for similar complexes and correlates well with the reduction potential of the complex and donor strength of the axial ligand, 3-cyanopyridine, as postulated in a previous study [Vamvounis et al. (2000). Inorg. Chim. Acta, 305, 87-98]. The 3-cyanopyridine ligands orient themselves in an anti configuration with respect to each other and the Ru-Ru-N angle [174.27 (7) ] is close to being linear.
Nitrilase of Nocardia globerula NHB-2 was induced by short-chain aliphatic nitriles (valeronitrile > isobutyronitrile > butyronitrile > propionitrile) and exhibited activity towards aromatic nitriles (benzonitrile > 3-cyanopyridine > 4-cyanopyridine > m-tolunitrile > p-tolunitrile). Hyperinduction of nitrilase (6.67 U mg DCW −1 , 18.7 U mL−1) was achieved in short incubation time (30 h, 30°C) through multiple feeding of isobutyronitrile in the growth medium. The nitrilase of this organism exhibits both substrate and product inhibition effects. In a fed batch reaction at 1 L scale using hyperinduced resting cells corresponding to 10 U mL−1 nitrilase activity (1.5 mgDCW mL−1), a total of 123.11 g nicotinic acid was produced at a rate of 24 g h−1 g DCW −1 .
Abstract The compounds Co(AcAc) 2 · n L, where AcAc represents acetylacetonate, L the piperazine (Pipz), morpholine (Morph), piperidine (Pipd), pyridine (Py), 3-methylpyridine (β-Pico), 4-methylpyridine (γ-Pico), 3-cyanopyridine (3-cyanopy), 4-cyanopyridine (4-cyanopy), 2,2′-bipyridine (Bipy) or quinoline (Quin); n = 1 or 2) were synthesized and characterized by melting points, elemental analysis, thermal studies and electronic and IR spectroscopy. The enthalpies of dissolution in 10% (v/v) ethanolamine in methanol, 10% (v/v) triethanolamine in azeotropic methanol-dichlorethane mixture, 10% (v/v) diethanolamine in azeotropic methanol-dichlorethane mixture or 25% (v/v) aqueous HCl 1,2 N in methanol were measured. Appropriate thermochemical cycles then give the standard enthalpy change for the Lewis acid/base reaction ( Δ r H π ), the standard enthalpies of formation ( Δ f H π ), the standard enthalpies of decomposition ( Δ D H π ), the standard lattice enthalpies ( Δ M H π ) and the standard enthalpies of the Lewis acid/base reactions in the gaseous phase ( Δ f H π (g)). The mean standard enthalpies of the cobalt-nitrogen bonds have been estimated.
3-Cyanopyridines containing an acetyl, ester, nitro, or cyano group in the 5-position were synthesized via various versions of the Hantzsch reaction. Recyclization of quaternary pyridinium salts by the action of aqueous-alcoholic alkali afforded 2-methylaminopyridine derivatives and 6-methylamino-3-nitro-2,4-diphenylbenzonitrile.
A propionitrile-induced nitrile hydratase (NHase), a promising biocatalyst for synthesis of organic amides has been purified from cell-free extract of Rhodococcus rhodochrous PA-34. About 11-fold purification of NHase was achieved with 52% yield. The SDS-PAGE of the purified enzyme revealed that it consisted of two subunits of 25.04 kD and 30.6 kD. However, the molecular weight of holoenzyme was speculated to be 86 kD by native-PAGE. This NHase exhibited maximum activity at pH 8.0 and temperature 40°C. Half-life was 2 h at 40°C and 0.5 h at 50°C. The Km and Vmax were 167 mM and 250 μmole/min/mg using 25 mM 3-cyanopyridine as substrate. AgNO3, Pb(CH3COO)2 and HgCl2 inhibited the NHase to extent of 89–100%.
The epoxidation of alkenes with 30% aqueous hydrogen peroxide is catalyzed efficiently by methyltrioxorhenium (MTO) in the presence of pyridine additives. The addition of 1-10 mol % of 3-cyanopyridine increases the system's efficiency for terminal and trans-disubstituted alkenes resulting in high isolated yields of the corresponding epoxides. The system allows for epoxidation of alkenes with various functional groups. Alkenes leading to acid-sensitive products are efficiently epoxidized using a mixture of pyridine and 3-cyanopyridine as additives. This method is operationally very simple and uses an environmentally benign oxidant. The effects of different pyridine additives on the alkene conversion and the catalyst lifetime are discussed.
Abstract The wastewater generated from pyridine and cyanopyridine manufacturing plants is highly complex in nature. It is characterized by high ammonia content, alkaline pH, and extremely high COD values (65,000 and 25,624 mg L −1 ), making it extremely recalcitrant and virtually non-biodegradable. Therefore it is not usually feasible to directly use biological treatment (BOD:COD −1 Fe 2+ , 900 ppm H 2 O 2 dose, pH 3, contact time 180 min) indicated a maximum COD removal of 66% from pyridine wastewater, along with 62.4% pyridine removal. Similarly, for 3-cyanopyridine containing wastewater (2.4 g L −1 of Fe 2+ , 600 ppm H 2 O 2 dose, pH 3, contact time150 min) a maximum COD removal of 84% was obtained and total 3-cyanopyridine degradation was 84%. The biodegradation studies of the Fenton-pretreated cyanopyridine and pyridine wastewater were carried out using the isolated Pseudomonas pseudoalcaligenes -KPN in batch culture experiments, wherein the residual pyridine and 3-cyanopyridine removal efficiency was observed to be 84% and >99%, respectively.
S-2-(3-tert-Butylamino-2-hydroxypropoxy)-3-cyanopyridine was recovered (approximately 90%) from human plasma and detected by conversion to a diheptafluorobutyryl derivative for electron-capture GLC. A homolog served as an internal standard. The method measures plasma drug concentrations at the 5-ng/ml level and is suitable for plasma analysis from humans who receive a therapeutic oral dose.
Abstract A propionitrile-induced nitrile hydratase (NHase), a promising biocatalyst for synthesis of organic amides has been purifi ed from cell-free extract of Rhodococcus rhodochrous PA-34. About 11-fold purifi cation of NHase was achieved with 52% yield. The SDS-PAGE of the purifi ed enzyme revealed that it consisted of two subunits of 25.04 kD and 30.6 kD. However, the molecular weight of holoenzyme was speculated to be 86 kD by native-PAGE. This NHase exhibited maximum activity at pH 8.0 and temperature 40°C. Half-life was 2 h at 40°C and 0.5 h at 50°C. The Km and Vmax were 167 mM and 250 μmole/min/mg using 25 mM 3-cyanopyridine as substrate. AgNO 3 , Pb(CH 3 COO) 2 and HgCl 2 inhibited the NHase to extent of 89-100%.
Abstract The anomalous minima on the current-voltage curves of 4-cyano- and 2-cyanopyridine in the medium pH range in classical d.c. polarography can be elucidated by means of single-sweep polarography and controlled-potential electrolysis. The mechanism of the electrode reaction changes with potential. The fission of the C-C bond between the heterocyclic nucleus and the nitrilo group is predominant at more negative potentials, whilst picolylamine is the main product of the electro-reduction at the beginning of the limiting current. Observations with single-sweep polarography indicate the participation of a short-lived radical in the electroreduction of 3-cyanopyridine.
Abstract Nitrile hydratases are important industrial catalysts to produce valuable amides. In this study, we describe a comprehensive and systematic approach to the development of an inducible expression system for enhanced nitrile hydratase expression in Corynebacterium glutamicum . Through promoter engineering, codon optimization and design of ribosome binding site sequences, the nitrile hydratase activity toward 3-cyanopyridine was improved from 0.33 U/mg DCW to 12.03 U/mg DCW in shake-flask culture. By introduction of the novel inducible mmp expression system, the nitrile hydratase activity was further elevated to 14.97 U/mg DCW. Finally, a high nitrile hydratase yield of 1432 U/mL was achieved in a fed-batch fermentation process and used for nicotinamide production. These results provide new insights for the development of heterologous protein expression systems in C. glutamicum .
Pyrazoline derivatives 3-Aryl-5-(4'-(p-chlorobenzyloxy)-3'-methoxyphenyl)-1-(p-fluorophenyl)-4,-5-dihydro-1H- pyrazoles and cyanopyridine derivative of 2-amino-6-aryl-4-(4'-(p-chlorobenzyloxy)-3'-methoxyphenyl)-2-methoxy-3- cyanopyridines were prepared. All the prepared compounds were characterized by their spectral (I.R., N.M.R., Mass) data and screened for their antimicrobial activities. acquired a special attention due to their wide range of therapeutic activities. The pyridine nucleus is found in a large number of commonly used drugs, which have diverse pharmacological activities. Interests in the synthesis of multicyclic pyridine containing compounds have increased in recent years because of their biological and pharmacological activities. This inspired us to synthesize 3-aryl-5-(4'-(p-chlorobenzyloxy)- 3'-methoxyphenyl)-1-(p-fluorophenyl)-4,-5-dihydro-1H-pyrazoles (1a-l) and cyanopyridine derivative 2-Amino-6-aryl-4-(4'-(p-chlorobenzyloxy)-3'-methoxyphenyl)-2-methoxy-3-cyanopyridines (2a-l). The structure of synthesized compounds were assigned based on elemental analysis, IR 1 H-NMR and Mass spectral data. The antimicrobial activity was assayed by using the cup-plate agar diffusion method 24 by measuring the zone of inhibition in mm. All the compounds were screened in vitro for their antimicrobial
The mixed-valence binuclear complexes, [(NC)5Fe(pyCN)Ru(NH3)5]n (4- and 3-cyanopyridine isomers, with nitrile-N and pyridine-N binding to Ru and Fe, respectively) were prepared as solid compounds through stoichiometric oxidation of the fully reduced (II,II) binuclear complexes, R, with peroxydisulfate. By analysis of IR spectra, the solids were observed to be a mixture of the predominant electronic isomers with a FeII, RuIII distribution, with minor amounts of the FeIII, RuII isomers. In aqueous solution, R was oxidized with peroxydisulfate to M, the mixed-valence complex, and to Ox, the fully oxidized complex. The M complex shows an intervalence band at 938 nm; by application of the Hush model, it is described as a valence-trapped RuII, FeIII complex; the latter electronic distribution is supported by UV−visible, electrochemical, and kinetic data, but a minor amount of the isomer with a FeII, RuIII distribution is also present in the equilibrium. The M complex is unstable toward dissociation and further ...
The equilibrium structure of the 3-cyanopyridine molecule was experimentally obtained for the first time. The calculations performed by the CCSD(T) method show a good agreement with the results of the electron diffraction and microwave data analysis.
With the aim of developing potential antimicrobials, a series of 2-amino-3-cyanopyridines incorporating both sulfur and oxygen as part of the heteroaromatic ring (methyl thiophene, methyl furan) and fused cycloalkane groups were synthesized and characterized by FTIR, 1H-NMR, 13C-NMR, and bases of elemental analysis. All synthesized compounds were evaluated for their in vitro antibacterial and antifungal activity. Antibacterial and antifungal activities of aminocyanopyridines against Pseudomonas aeruginosa ATCC 29212, Bacillus subtilis RSKK 244, Bacillus megaterium (clinical isolate), the gram-positive bacterium Micrococcus luteus NRRLB 4375, and the fungus Candida albicans ATCC 90028 were studied. The relationship between the functional-group variation and the biological activity of the evaluated compounds is discussed.
Since the first report on nitrilase appeared in 1960s, purification and characterization of nitrilases are being regularly published (Petříčková et al. 2012; Vejvoda et al. 2010 , Gupta et al. 2010 Thuku et al. 2009; O'Reilly and Turner 2003) . Bacteria have been extensively studied and exploited as source of nitrile hydrolysing enzymes, as compared to eukaryotic organisms (Gong et al. 2012; Sharma et al. 2011; Schreiner et al. 2010; Vejvoda et al. 2010; Martínková et al. 2009; Shen et al. 2009; Zhu et al. 2008; Kaplan et al. 2006a; Banerjee et al. 2002) . Filamentous fungi are known to be the rich source of nitrile hydrolysing enzymes especially nitrilases, however, they have not been exploited extensively. Therefore, there is great need to explore them for nitrilase production in detail. The known fungal genera reported for nitrilase production include Fusarium, Gibberella, Aspergillus, and Penicillium etc. (Wu et al. 2013; Gong et al. 2012; Martínková et al. 2009 ). As shown in Table 1 , Aspergillus niger K10 has been reported to produce nitrilase activity of 100U/L culture (Kaplan et al. 2006a) , Fusarium solani IMI 196840 produced 1500U/L culture (Vejvoda et al. 2010) , Fusarium solani O1 has been reported to produce maximum nitrilase activity i.e. 3000U/ L culture (2008) . Recently, nitrilase from Fusarium proliferatum ZJB-09150 has been reported to produce 0.322U/mg DCW for 3-cyanopyridine hydrolysis (Jin et al. 2012) . This strain has nitrilase as well as nitrile hydratase activity and therefore has potential applications in organic acids/amide synthesis. However, specificity and selectivity of an enzyme is essential for the development of a successful biotransformation processes to reduce overall cost. Therefore, more selective strains such as Fusarium solani and Fusarium oxysporum with only nitrilase activity would be a preferred choice for such applications (Martínková et al. 2009) .
A series of novel 3-cyanopyridine derivatives of (-)-β-pinene were designed and synthesized by one-pot four-component domino reactions. The targeted compounds were evaluated for their antimicrobial activity against four bacteria (Klebsiella pneumoniae, Enterobacter aerogenes, Staphylococcus aureus, Staphylococcus epidermidis) and a fungus (Candida albicans). The results showed that most of the minimal inhibitory concentrations (MICs) of these 3-cyanopyridine derivatives against the tested strains was in the range of 15.6-125 mg/L. Among these 3-cyanopyridine derivatives, the MICs of compound 5h against S. epidermidis and C. albicans were 15.6 mg/L, which revealed that compound 5h featured double fluoro substituents at meta- and para-position was the most active compound. In addition, the preliminary structure-activity relationship analysis indicated that the change of substituents on the pyridine ring and benzene ring of 3-cyanopyridine derivatives was an important factor for inducing antimicrobial activity. This research would promote the development of heterocyclic derivatives of β-pinene with antimicrobial activity.
The data on the methods of synthesis and chemical properties of 3-cyanopyridine-2(1H)-chalcogenones published over the last 20 years are systematised and analysed. Special attention is given to the use of these compounds as building blocks in the synthesis of fused O,N,S-heterocycles.
Abstract The bioconversion of 3-cyanopyridine using the in situ nitrile hydratase–amidase cascade system of resting Microbacterium imperiale CBS 498-74 cells was investigated in an ultrafiltration-membrane reactor, operated in either batch or continuous mode. The effects of operating conditions such as the amount of biocatalyst, substrate concentration, substrate feeding rate, mean residence time, and enzyme-to-substrate ratio, were investigated with the aim of achieving almost 100% substrate conversion and high reactor productivity. As a result, it was found that the NHase–AMase cascade system could be adequately exploited in a continuous reactor configuration. The differing temperature dependence of nitrile hydratase and amidase kinetics enabled the operational parameters to be module d to ensure (i) nitrile hydratase operational stability (at 5 °C), and (ii) 100% conversion of 3-cyanopyridine into nicotinic acid, or, alternatively, (iii) enrichment of the effluent stream with the intermediate nicotinamide (up to 80% conversion). It was possible to select operating conditions that allowed long periods of operation (at least 100 h) at a constant flow-rate without enzyme activity loss.
Functionalized nitrogen-heterocycles play a predominant role in medicinal chemistry. The pyridine nucleus is prevalent in numerous natural products and is extremely important in the chemistry of biological systems. It plays a key role catalyzing both biological and chemical systems. Many pyridine derivatives are of commercial interest and find application in areas where bioactivity is important, as in medicinal drugs (Challa et al., 2014) . Some of them have been used as herbicides, fungicides, pesticides, medicines, and dyes (Lohray et al., 2004; Merja et al., 2004; Chaki et al., 1995; Thomae et al., 2007) . Several cyanopyridine moiety compounds show interesting pharmacological and chemotherapeutic activities, such as anticancer, antitubercular (Kanjariya et al., 2004 ), antimicrobial (Popat et al., 2004 , etc. Recently, 2-aminopyridine derivatives ( Fig. 1 ) have been identified as novel 1KK-b inhibitors (Murata et al., 2003) , A 2A adenosine receptor antagonists (Mantri et al., 2008) , potent inhibitor of HIV-1 integrase (Deng et al., 2007) , and so on. Therefore, the synthesis of 2-amino-3-cyanopyridine derivatives continues to attract much interest in organic chemistry.
Various preparation methods of 2-amino-4,6-diphenylpyridine-3-carbonitrile have been reported. The common method used in the preparation of 2-amino-4,6-diphenylpyridine-3carbonitrile involves the chalcone or carbonyl compound condensation with malononitrile and ammonium acetate by conventional heating in the presence of ethyl alcohol as a solvent. A series of 2-amino-3-cyanopyridine derivatives have been prepared by one-pot condensation from malononitrile, aromatic aldehyde, methyl ketone and ammonium acetate under microwave irradiation without solvent (Shi et al., 2005) . A new series of 2-amino-3-cyano-4-tetrazoloquinolinylpyridine derivatives have been synthesized by the one-pot cyclocondensation reaction of a tetrazolo[1,5-a]quinoline-4-carbaldehyde, malononitrile, a heterocyclic/aromatic methyl ketone and ammonium acetate (Mungra et al., 2009) . Recently, it has been reported that chalcones on condensation with malononitrile and ammonium acetate in the presence of ionic liquid ethylammonium nitrate affords the corresponding 2-amino-4,6diphenylpyridine-3-carbonitrile. The ionic liquid is recycled and reused several times (Sarda et al., 2009) . A family of 2amino-3-cyanopyridine derivatives were synthesized using [Yb(PFO) 3 ] (Tang et al., 2011) . These reported methods suffered from several drawbacks like prolonged reaction times, low yields, harsh reaction conditions, critical isolation procedures, and expensive catalysts. Consequently, there is room for further innovation toward milder reaction conditions, shorter reaction time and better yield which is achieved using ionic liquid [Bmim] [BF 4 ]. 
A new type of cyano-bridged Co-W bimetallic assembly, CsI[{CoII(3-cyanopyridine)2}{WV(CN)8}].H2O was synthesized. This compound exhibited a temperature-induced phase transition and a photoinduced magnetization. Irradiating with light induced a spontaneous magnetization with a magnetic phase transition temperature at 30 K. This photoinduced magnetization is due to the phase transition from CoIII(LS; S = 0)-WIV(S = 0) to CoII(HS; S = 3/2)-WV(S = 1/2) phases by the irradiation.
A one-pot four-component reaction of various types of aldehydes, acetophenone, malononitrile, and ammonium acetate was studied in the presence of perchlorated Al-MCM-41 (ClO 4 − /Al-MCM-41) nanoparticles for the synthesis of 2-amino-3-cyanopyridines. Mesoporous Al-MCM-41 molecular sieves with the Si/Al molar ratios of 30, 40, and 50 were synthesized by the sol–gel method and ClO 4 − /Al-MCM-41 with different calcination temperatures were prepared and characterized by SEM, TEM, XRD, FT-IR, potentiometric titration and, N2 adsorption-desorption techniques. The characterization results show that ClO 4 − /Al-MCM-41 with calcination temperature of 300 °C has the best catalytic activity for the synthesis of 2-amino-3-cyanopyridines. The catalyst is reusable many times with moderate loss in its activity.
A series of 2-amino-3-cyanopyridine derivatives have been prepared by one-pot condensation from malononitrile, aromatic aldehyde, methyl ketone and ammonium acetate under microwave irradiation without solvent. This method has the advantage of short routine, high yields and being environmentally-friendly.
Lithiation of HN(SiMe3)2 with LiBun yielded LiN(SiMe3)2.The lithium salt reacted with 3-Cyanopyridine and followed by addition of one equivalent of chlorodiphenylphosphine,then AgSO3CF3 was added to give the compound Ph12Ag4P6O6(F3CSO3)2.The colorless crystalline product was obtained by evaporating the acetonitrile solution in air.The molecular structure was determined by IR and X-ray crystallography.
Thermostable nitrile metabolizing enzymes are getting more importance in the industrial and biotechnological field because of their role in the synthesis of various pharmaceutical products, in bioremediation of cyanide, in synthesis of plant hormone and nutrient assimilation etc. Based on the diverse habitat for presence of microorganisms, a number of soil samples have been used for the screening of bacteria producing nitrilases responsible for hydrolyzing 3-cyanopyridine to nicotinic acid (Vitamin B3) at high temperature. From a number of different bacterial isolates, few showed the capacity of synthesizing 3cyanopyridinase responsible for converting 3-cyanopyridine to nicotinic acid at 50 o C at neutral pH. The
A series of 2-amino-3-cyanopyridine derivatives have been prepared by one-pot condensation from malononitrile, aromatic aldehyde, methyl ketone and ammonium acetate under microwave irradiation without solvent. This method has the advantage of short routine, high yields and being environmentally-friendly.
Many natural occurring and synthetic compounds containing the pyridine scaffold possess interesting pharmacological properties. 1 Among them, 2-amino-3-cyanopyridines have been identified as IKK-βinhibitors. 2 Besides, they are important and useful intermediates in preparing variety of heterocyclic compounds. 3 Therefore, the synthesis of 2-amino-3-cyanopyridine derivatives continues to attract much interest in organic chemistry. It has been reported that the 2-amino-6-aryl-3-cyano-4-piperidinylpyridine core structure can be constructed using a one-pot coupling reaction of acetophenone, piperidine, malononitrile and ammonium acetate in conventional heating mode. 4 Nevertheless, the protocol gives comparatively lower yields and longer reaction time.
2-amino-3-cyanopyridines from arylidenemalanonitrile, ketone and ammonium acetate under microwave irradiation. 9 However, arylidenemalanonitriles as one of the starting materials must be synthesized from malononitrile and aromatic aldehyde, which results in longer routine. It goes without saying that the most efficient synthesis of functionalized organic compounds would be one-pot reaction from commercially available and inexpensive starting materials 10 .In
2-Chloro-3-cyanopyridine was synthesized by adding dropwise an organic alkali into the mixture of 3-cyanopyridine N-oxide and bis(trichloromethyl)carbonate (BTC) in an organic solvent at -5-40 °C, and then heated to 30-75 °C for chlorination reaction. An optimized yield of 86% was obtained. It had such advantages as improved operational safety and reduced environmental pollution, by using bis(trichloromethyl)carbonate to replace phosphorous oxychloride.
Thermodynamic data have been obtained by spectrophotometrio method for the coordination of lodine with the donors 3-chloropyridine, 3-cyanopyridine and 4-cyanopyridine. A linear relation between A and wave numbers for the π-σ transition was found. A corelation of these data with Hammett equation and Drago's E-C equation was attempted.
A series of an easy and efficient route for the synthesis of some new 2-amino-3-cyanopyridine (4a-4i) and 2-methoxy-3-cyanopyridine (5a-5i) derivatives were synthesized through the reaction of various chalcone (3a-3i) with malononitrile in presence of ammonium acetate and sodium methoxide, respectively. The constitutions of the all synthesized compounds have been established by the IR, 1H-NMR, Mass spectral data and Elemental analysis. Furthermore, all the synthesized products were screened for their antimicrobial activity.
Several methods have been used for the characterisation of minerals in powders and in rocks. Particular emphasis has been directed towards the use of chemical probes to elucidate the surface mineralogy in order to provide detection profiles suitable for both qualitative and quantitative chemometric analysis. The first probe evaluated was cyclohexylamine (CHA). Ni[2+]- and Al[2+]-exchanged montmorillonite (SWy-2 -Wyoming, USA), were exposed to cyclohexylamine vapour (CHA). The samples were characterised by X-ray diffraction (XRD), thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) and evolved gas analysis (EGA), which included TGA, real time gas phase FTIR (RT-GP-FTIR), real time mass spectrometry (RT-MS) and organic trap module-gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (OTM-GC-MS). CHA decomposed along different routes via interrelated mechanisms that were cation dependent. Over Al[3+]-SWy-2 hydrodenitrogenation via the Hofmann degradation was the predominant route whereas ring dehydrogenation to aniline either directly from CHA or possibly via cyclohexylimine was significant over Ni[2+]-SWy-2. Very little unmodified cyclohexylamine was detected in the evolved gases which means that the desorption of CHA cannot be used as a quantitative measure of the acidity of cation-exchanged clays. Nonetheless, as a qualitative probe, CHA has the potential to distinguish the difference between Ni[2+] and Al[3+]-SWy-2.The second probe evaluated was 3-cyanopyridine (3CYP). TGA has shown that temperature programmed desorption (TPD) of 3CYP is capable of distinguishing between the Ni[2+]- and Al[3+] exchanged forms of SWy-2. 3CYP was found to be unsuitable for a variety of reasons highlighted by its ability to condense within the EGA system and the long incubation times necessary to produce detectable thermal events.The most suitable probe used so far is Dimethylformamide (DMF), being able to intercalate quickly and showing no evidence of modification. Principal component analysis (PCA) and partial least squares (PLS) modelling techniques were applied to the EGA DMF detection profiles of four clay mineral groups. Each group was successfully characterised and provided valuable information about intra and inter group relationships. The use of RT-MS detection profiles for ions m/z =18 and 73 (DMF parent ion) were shown to have the most potential for more sensitive quantitative applications.Application of quantitative PLS modelling to mixed mineral standards has shown that it is possible to estimate the clay mineral constituents in both powders and rocks. The use of the ion m/z = 73 provided an R[2] value of 0.98. Use of ion m/z =18 (H[2]O) has perhaps shown most potential, due to its ability to produce training sets with excellent correlation coefficients of 0.95 for SWy-2, 0.97 for KGa-2 and 0.95 for CCa-1. However, because SWy-2 and 1-Mt (illite) demonstrate overlapping detection of DMF (where uptake of DMF by 1-Mt is comparatively small), it is impossible to directly separate their relative contributions at the concentration levels under study. The use of mass spectrometry has shown that it is possible to detect to levels of 1% with considerable scope for detecting smaller levels.Environmental scanning electron microscope (ESEM) and energy dispersive X-ray analysis (EDX) of cation exchanged SWy-2 and a sandstone rock exposed to 2-bromopyridine (2BPY) have shown the potential of using the bromine functional group as a tag to locate the presence of swelling minerals in rocks by EDX.
A method for the synthesis of substituted 3-amino-2-(organylsulfinyl)thieno[2,3-b]pyridines by the Thorpe—Ziegler intramolecular cyclization of substituted 3-cyano-2-[(organyl-sulfinyl)methylthio]pyridines was proposed. 3-Amino-2-(organylsulfonyl)thieno[2,3-b]pyridines were obtained by reactions of substituted 3-cyanopyridine-2-thiones with chloromethyl organyl sulfones. The reaction intermediates 3-cyano-2-[(organylsulfonyl)methylthio]pyridines were transformed into 3-amino-2-(organylsulfonyl)thieno[2,3-b]pyridines.
Abstract The treatment of non-biodegradable industrial organic raffinate containing refractory and toxic organic compounds pyridine, β-picoline and 3-cyanopyridine has been studied by coupling of catalytic wet air oxidation (CWAO) over alumina based platinum catalyst and biological processes. The alumina based platinum catalyst was characterized and the stability of the catalyst was studied. The CWAO experiments were performed in a glass reactor at atmospheric pressure and the effluent treatment efficiency was evaluated in terms of chemical oxygen demand (COD) removal. The effect of various parameters such as air flow rate, reaction temperature, platinum loading and catalyst dosage on the COD removal was studied. The optimum values of air flow rate, platinum loading and catalyst dosage were found to be 1 L/min, 1 wt. % and 3 g/L respectively and a COD removal of 45% was obtained at the optimum conditions at reaction temperature of 70 °C. The CWAO experimental results were found to be in agreement with the lumped kinetic model. The toxicity test using E. coli bacteria and the biodegradability study were performed. The toxicity of the effluent decreased considerably while the BOD/COD ratio was found to increase significantly after the CWAO. The aerobic biological treatment confirmed the biodegradability enhancement and a total COD removal of 98.4% was obtained after 10 days of aerobic treatment of the CWAO effluent.
Abstract The work included in this paper involves the synthesis of thirteen heterocyclic compounds, piperidinium and morpholinium 3-cyanopyridinethiolates 5–14 , 17 , 20 and 21 in our Lab. and their characterization using elemental and spectroscopic analyses. The insecticidal activities of these compounds against cowpea aphid, Aphis craccivora using acetamiprid insecticide as a reference were studied. The bioassay results showed that: (i) the insecticidal activities of compounds 13 , 14 and 20 against nymphs or adults of cowpea aphid are about 1.5-fold higher than that of acetamiprid after 48 h of treatment, (ii) the rest of the tested compounds (ten compounds) exhibit weak to strong toxicity against cowpea aphid and (iii) there is a remarkable relationship between the structure and activity of the tested compounds.
Abstract A new donor-acceptor polymer poly (3-Cyanopyridine-fluorene) (PCP) was designed, and synthesized by using Suzuki coupling reaction. The synthesized polymer, PCP hybridized TiO2 nanocomposites were prepared from the blends of TiO2/PCP by varying the PCP percentage (0.3–0.6 wt%). Presence of polymer (PCP) in small quantity does not affect the morphology of the electron transport layer (ETL) and XRD spectra showed the retention of crystalline characteristics of the ETL after modification. Moreover, the fabricated DSSCs made of these ETL with N719 sensitizer reveals a greater dye adsorption ability caused due to the profound improvement in basicity of TiO2 after modification. Among the various PCP (wt%) doped ETL, DSSC fabricated for 0.5 wt% PCP doped ETL showed an optimized device efficiency up to 6.4% which is about 45% more efficient than unmodified ETL. It is evident that the modification of ETL with PCP not only helps for the better dye adsorption but also assist for the improved electron lifetime which resulted in the enhanced efficiency of the device.
The work included in this paper involves the synthesis of thirteen heterocyclic compounds, piperidinium and morpholinium 3-cyanopyridinethiolates 5-14, 17, 20 and 21 in our Lab. and their characterization using elemental and spectroscopic analyses. The insecticidal activities of these compounds against cowpea aphid, Aphis craccivora using acetamiprid insecticide as a reference were studied. The bioassay results showed that: (i) the insecticidal activities of compounds 13, 14 and 20 against nymphs or adults of cowpea aphid are about 1.5-fold higher than that of acetamiprid after 48 h of treatment, (ii) the rest of the tested compounds (ten compounds) exhibit weak to strong toxicity against cowpea aphid and (iii) there is a remarkable relationship between the structure and activity of the tested compounds. Ó 2016 Production and hosting by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of King Saud University. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
In the present work, we have successfully synthesized and characterized a new series of water-soluble compounds, piperidinium and morpholinium 3-cyanopyridinethiolates 5-14, 17, 20 and 21. These compounds were screened for their insecticidal activities against cowpea aphids, A. craccivora. Compounds 13, 14 and 20 proved to be promising insecticidal agents since they showed higher activities than those of acetamiprid insecticide itself.
A short and practical method for the synthesis of 4-(N-Boc-3-aminopropyl)-5-(N-tritylamino)-1-methylpyrazole (3), side chain of an anti-Pseudomonas aeruginosa cephalosporine FR259647, 1, was established by utilizing a regioselective enamine exchange with N-methylhydrazine and 1,4,5,6-tetrahydro-pyridine-3-carbonitrile (8), followed by a subsequently occurring intramolecular cyclization and aromatization, starting from a cheap 3-cyanopyridine (7).
Tetrachloro-3-cyanopyridine reacts with anilines and/or sodium azide through replacement of three chlorine atoms at the 2-, 4-, and 6-positions, whereas with difunctional nucleophiles by replacement of chlorines at the 5- and 6-positions. Using these reactions synthesis of highly substituted pyridines has been developed
A process for preparing 3-cyanopyridine by the ammoxidation of 2-methyl-5-ethylpyridine which comprises reacting 2-methyl-5-ethylpyridine with ammonia and oxygen in the vapor phase at an elevated temperature, using a specific catalyst consisting of a low-area carrier on which has been deposited vanadium oxide and other specific metal oxides, the reaction being carried out in the copresence of steam.
Pyridine-3-carboxylic acid (also known as nicotinic acid) is widely used in food, pharmaceutical, and biochemical industries. The production of acid can be intensified by enzymatic conversion of 3-cyanopyridine or biosynthesis and by reactive extraction used as a separation step from a dilute fermentation broth. The extraction of pyridine-3-carboxylic acid by 1-dioctylphosphoryloctane, also known as tri-n-octylphosphine oxide (TOPO), with five different diluents (n-octane, methylbenzene, 4-methyl-2-pentanone (MIBK), decan-1-ol, and dichloromethane) is studied. The equilibrium experiments are carried out to investigate the effects of diluent, extractant (TOPO) composition, and initial acid concentration on extraction efficiency. The extraction efficiency is found to increase with increasing TOPO composition concentration, (0.10 to 0.60) mol·m−3, and found to decrease with increasing initial acid concentration, (0.02 to 0.12) mol·m−3. The number of TOPO molecules in the acid:TOPO complex is estimated throug...
The synthesis of a series of isoelectronic analogues of (S)-2-[3-(tert-butylamino)-2-hydroxypropoxy]-3-cyanopyridine (1) are described; included in this group are examples of thiazole, isothiazole, thiadiazole, pyrazine, and the structurally related naphthyridines. All of the compounds are similar to 1 in that they contain a cyano group ortho to the aminohydroxypropoxy side chain and meta to the nitrogen heteroatom. In addition, several related examples, having additional nuclear substituents and/or groups other than CN in the position adjacent to the aminohydroxypropoxy group, were prepared, and beta-adrenoceptor antagonist activity and vasodilating potency were determined. Three compounds, thiazole 2 and isothiazoles 3 and 27, effectively lowered mean arterial pressure in the SH rat at 5 mg/kg. Compounds 2, 3, and 27 increased iliac blood flow and exhibited beta-adrenergic blocking properties in the dog.
In this study, nitriles were used as sole sources of nitrogen in the enrichments to isolate nitrile-converting microorganisms. A novel fungus named ZJB-09150 possessing nitrile-converting enzymes was obtained with 3-cyanopyridine as sole source of nitrogen, which was identified by morphology, biology and 18S rDNA gene sequence as Fusarium proliferatum. It was found that F. proliferatum had ability to convert nitriles to corresponding acids or amides and showed wide substrate specificity to aliphatic nitriles, aromatic nitriles and ortho-substituted heterocyclic nitriles. The nitrile converting enzymes including nitrilase and nitrile hydratase in ZJB-09150 were induced by e-caprolactam. Nitrilase obtained in this study showed high activity toward 3-cyanopyridine. It was active within pH 3.0–12.0 and temperature ranging from 25 to 65 °C with optimal at pH 9.0 and temperature 50–55 °C. The enzyme was thermostable and its half-life was 12.5 and 6 h at 45 and 55 °C, respectively. Under optimized reaction conditions, 60 mM 3-cyanopyridine was converted to nicotinic acid in 15 min, which indicated ZJB-09150 has potentials of application in large scale production of nicotinic acid.
The nitrilase which occurs abundantly in cells of Rhodococcus rhodochrous J1 catalyzes the direct hydrolysis of 3-cyanopyridine to nicotinic acid without forming nicotinamide. By using resting cells, the reaction conditions for nicotinic acid production were optimized. Under the optimum conditions, 100% of the added 3-cyanopyridine could be converted to nicotinic acid, the highest yield achieved being 172 mg of nicotinic acid per 1.0 ml of reaction mixture containing 2.89 mg (dry weight) of cells in 26 h.
Acrylonitrile (ACN) wastewater generated during ACN production has been reported to be toxic to many aquatic organisms. However, few studies have evaluated toxicity removal of ACN wastewater during and after the treatment process. In this study, the detoxication ability of an ACN wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) was evaluated using Daphnia magna, Danio rerio and zebrafish embryo. This ACN WWTP has a combined anaerobic oxic-aerobic biological fluidized tank (A/O-ABFT) process upgraded from the traditional anaerobic oxic (A/O) process. Moreover, the potential toxicants of the ACN wastewaters were identified by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). The raw ACN wastewater showed high acute and embryo toxicity. 3-Cyanopyridine, succinonitrile and a series of nitriles were detected as the toxic contributors of ACN wastewater. The A/O process was effective for the acute and embryo toxicity removal, as well as the organic toxicants. However, the A/O effluent still showed acute and embryo toxicity which was attributed by the undegraded and the newly generated toxicants during the A/O process. The residual acute and embryo toxicity as well as the organic toxicants in the A/O effluent were further reduced after going through the downstream ABFT process system. The final effluent displayed no significant acute and embryo toxicity, and less organic toxicants were detected in the final effluent. The upgrade of this ACN WWTP results in the improved removal efficiencies for acute and embryo toxicity, as well as the organic toxicants.
A synthetic route toward new 8,8-difluoro-1,6-naphthyridine-5,7-diones, which are of interest as new building blocks in pharmaceutical chemistry, is described. The key steps include a copper-mediated cross-coupling of ethyl bromodifluoroacetate and 2-bromo-3-cyanopyridine, followed by hydrolysis of the nitrile function and subsequent cyclization.
Abstract High yields of nicotinic acid from 3-cyanopyridine bioconversion were obtained by exploiting the in situ nitrile hydratase–amidase enzymatic cascade system of Microbacterium imperiale CBS 498-74. Experiments were carried out in continuously stirred tank UF-membrane bioreactors (CSMRs) arranged in series. This reactor configuration enables both enzymes, involved in the cascade reaction, to work with optimized kinetics, without any purification, exploiting their differing temperature dependences. To this end, the first CSMR, optimized for the properties of the NHase, was operated (i) at low temperature (5 °C), limiting inactivation of the more fragile enzyme, nitrile hydratase, (ii) with a high residence time (24 h) to overcome reaction rate limitation. The second CSMR, optimized for the properties of the AMase, was operated (i) at a higher temperature (50 °C), (ii) with a lower residence time (6 h), and (iii) with a lower substrate (3-cyanopyridine) concentration to control excess substrate inhibition. The appropriate choice of operational conditions enabled total conversion of 3-cyanpyridine (up to 200 mM) into nicotinic acid to be achieved at steady-state and for long periods. Higher substrate concentrations required two CSMRs optimized for the properties of the NHase arranged in series to drive the first reaction to completion.
Abstract An efficient biocatalytic process for the production of nicotinic acid (niacin) from 3-cyanopyridine was developed using cells of recombinant Escherichia coli JM109 harboring the nitrilase gene from Alcaligenes faecalis MTCC 126. The freely suspended cells of the biocatalyst were found to withstand higher concentrations of the substrate and the product without any signs of substrate inhibition. Immobilization of the cells further enhanced their substrate tolerance, stability and reusability in repetitive cycles of nicotinic acid production. Under optimized conditions (37 °C, 100 mM Tris buffer, pH 7.5) for the immobilized cells, the recombinant biocatalyst achieved a 100% conversion of 1 M 3-cyanopyridine to nicotinic acid within 5 h at a cell mass concentration (fresh weight) of 500 mg/mL. The high substrate/product tolerance and stability of the immobilized whole cell biocatalyst confers its potential industrial use.
The nitrilase which occurs abundantly in cells of Rhodococcus rhodochrous Jl catalyzes the direct hydrolysis of 3-cyanopyridine to nicotinic acid without forming nicotinamide. By using resting cells, the reaction conditions for nicotinic acid production were optimized. Under the optimum conditions, 100% of the added 3-cyanopyridine could be converted to nicotinic acid, the highest yield achieved being 172 mg of nicotinic acid per 1.0 ml of reaction mixture containing 2.89 mg (dry weight) of cells in 26 h.
Nicotinic acid is a vitamin, which is used in animal feed supplementation and also in medicine. Nicotinic acid is also used as a biostimulator for the formation of activated sludge and as a deodorant for air and waste gases in pollution control. The production of nicotinic acid involves the hydrolysis of 3-cyanopyridine through the action of a strong base under high temperature (German patent 828246). Thus, we attempted the microbial conversion of 3-cyanopyridine to nicotinic acid by using resting R. rhodochrous Jl cells containing high benzonitrilase activity. The optimization of the reaction conditions for the production of nicotinic acid is described in the present paper.
Assaying the production of nicotinic acid. The standard reaction mixture (2 ml) for nicotinic acid production contained 200 mM 3-cyanopyridine, 10 mM potassium phosphate buffer (pH 8.0), and 0.2 ml of the cell suspension (5.78 mg [dry weight] of cells) obtained from 2 ml of the culture broth. The reaction was carried out at 25°C for 20 min with shaking. However, for optimization of the reaction conditions, the pH, temperature, time, and concentrations of added substrate and cells were varied in each experiment, depending upon the reaction condition being examined. The reaction was stopped by adding 0.2 ml of 1 N HCl.
Analytical methods. The amounts of nicotinic acid and 3-cyanopyridine in the reaction mixture were determined by analytical high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). HPLC was performed with a Toyosoda CCPM system equipped with an M&S pack C18 column (reversed-phase column, 4.6 by 150 mm; M&S Instruments Inc., Japan) at a flow rate of 1.0 ml/min at 30°C, with the following solvent system: acetonitrile-10 mM potassium phosphate buffer (pH 2.8) (1/4 [vol/vol]). In some cases, a Hibar LiChrosorb-NH2 column (4 by 250 mm; CIBA-Merck, Federal Republic of Germany) was used to detect the formation of nicotinamide at a flow rate of 1.0 ml/min at 30°C, with the following solvent system: acetonitrile-10 mM potassium phosphate buffer (pH 2.8) (3/1). The A230 was measured.
A range of oxo-centred, carboxylate bridged tri-iron complexes of general formula [Fe3(mu3-O)(O2CR)6L3]ClO4(R=CH2CN, CH2F, CH2Cl, CH2Br, p-NO2C6H4; L=pyridine, 3-methylpyridine, 4-methylpyridine, 3,5-dimethylpyridine, 3-cyanopyridine and 3-fluoropyridine) have been prepared and characterised. The choice of R and L was dictated by the requirement that the complexes undergo a one-electron reduction when reacted with verdazyl radicals. All except the complexes where L=pyridine and R=CH2CN, CH2Cl and p-NO2C6H4 have not been previously reported. The redox behaviour of these compounds has been investigated using cyclic voltammetry in acetonitrile in the absence and in the presence of free L. In general, all complexes exhibited reversible one-electron reductions. Electrochemical behaviour improved in the presence of an excess of L. The kinetics of the electron transfer reaction observed when acetonitrile solutions of the complexes were reacted with a range of verdazyl radicals were monitored using stopped-flow spectrophotometry. Under the experimental conditions, the reactions were quite rapid and were monitored under second-order conditions. Marcus linear free energy plots indicated that the outer-sphere electron transfer reactions were non-adiabatic in nature. Nevertheless, application of the self-exchange rate constants of the verdazyl radicals, k11, and the tri-iron complexes, k22, to the Marcus cross-relation resulted in calculated values of the cross-reaction rate constant, k12, that were within a factor of five of the experimentally determined value.
The alkylation of 3-cyanopyridine-2(1H)-thiones with 8-chloromethyl-3-methyl-7-(2-oxo-2-phenylethyl)xanthene in a KOH–H2O–DMF system upon heating leads to the formation of pyrido[3",2":4',5']thieno[3',2':5,6][1,4]diazepino[7,1-f]purine-2,4(3H,6H)-dione derivatives in good yields. Under milder conditions, the intermediates of the cascade reactions, namely, 2-({[3-methyl-2,6-dioxo7-(2-oxo-2-phenylethyl)-2,3,6,7-tetrahydro-1H-purin-8-yl]methyl}thio)pyridine-3-carbonitriles, can be isolated and characterized.
The compound of selenium containing heterocycles namely (I) 4,6-dimethyl- 3-cyanopyridine-(2H)-selenone (C8H8N2Se) was used asmodel to investigate the structural and micro-structural features of some selected selenones.Visualization ofmolecular structure of seleniumcontainingmoiety was accurately investigated to clarify role of seleniumion in nucleation process of forming 3D-framenet of H-bonded of substituted selenones. Bond distances, torsions on angles of investigated compound were compared with others crystal data to confirm crystal structures of substituted selenones which is monoclinic crystal form with P 21/n space group.
Abstract This review presents a systematic and comprehensive survey of the method of preparation and the chemical reactivity of 2-amino-3-cyanopyridines. The target compounds are important intermediates for the synthesis of a variety of synthetically useful and novel heterocyclic systems.
The 3-cyanopyridin-2(1H)-ones are of both theoretical and practical interest. In particular, they are synthons for annelated heterocyclic systems [1-4] while 3-cyanopyridin-2(1H)-ones show cardiotonic and inotropic activity as phosphodiesterase inhibitors [5-7]. We have previously prepared 5-cyanopyrano[3,4-c]pyridin-6(7H)-ones which contain alkyl and aryl substituents in position 8 [8]. With the aim of introducing cyclic amine fragments into the pyridine ring, we have developed a method for preparing condensed 3-cyanopyridin-2(1H)-ones through Smiles rearrangement. We have used the condensed 3-cyanopyridin-2(1H)-thiones 1a-i [9-12] as starting materials. Initially, we unsuccessfully attempted to carry out preparation of the condensed 3-cyanopyridin-2(1H)-ones via nucleophilic substitution of the S-methyl and S-benzyl derivatives of the 3-cyanopyridine-2(1H)-thiones 2j-m [10-14] using an aqueous alcoholic solution of sodium hydroxide. Subsequently this task was achieved using the 2-hydroxyethylsulfanyl derivatives 2a-i which underwent a Smiles rearrangement using sodium hydroxide under analogous conditions to give the 3-cyanopyridin-2(1H)-ones 3a-i. Rearrangement of the 2-hydroxyethylsulfanyl derivatives 2a-i occurred in the presence of a tenfold excess of sodium hydroxide in quite good yields (65-90%) which reached 85-90% in the case of the 8-morpholinoor 8-piperidino-substituted derivatives 3a,b,e,h (Table 1). Decreasing the amount of base caused a decrease in the product yield. The cleavage product thiirane (4) is also formed in the reaction mixture and may
Polymeric transition metal chalcogenides have attracted much attention because of their possible unusual properties directly derived from their extended structures. The molecules n-cyanopyridine (n = 2, 3, and 4) and pyridine-3,4-dicarbonitrile are found to function as bidentate or monodentate (only pyridine nitrogen donor atom) ligands in the coordination of silver(I) and copper(I) ions, respectively. The mode of coordination depends on the anion and the crystallization conditions and has been elucidated in all cases by single-crystal X-ray crystallography. We report here the syntheses, structural characterization, and electrical properties of six new polymers, [Ag(2)(2-cyanopyridine)(2)(NO(3))(2)](n)(1), [Ag(4)(3-cyanopyridine)(8)(SiF(6))(2)(H(2)O)(2)](n) (2), [Ag(3-cyanopyridine)(2)(NO(3))](n)(3), [Ag(pyridine-3,4-dicarbonitrile)(2)(NO(3))](n)(4), [Cu(I)(4-cyanopyridine)(2)(SCN)](n)(5), and [Cu(I)(pyridine-3,4-dicarbonitrile)(2)(SCN)](n)(6). Compounds 1 and 2 exhibit novel two-dimensional networks, while 3-6 have one-dimensional chain structures, in which 3 is a single-stranded helix. Room-temperature conductivities of 1, 2, 4, and 6 have been measured and are 3.1 x 10(-)(7), 2.7 x 10(-)(7), 7.4 x 10(-)(6), and 4.3 x 10(-)(5) S.cm(-)(1), respectively. The effect of temperature on the conductivities has been investigated.
An acetonitrile-utilising bacterium AJ270 has been isolated from soil, identified as a Rhodococcus sp. and shown to be distinct from all the recognised species of the genus. It grows well on 32 of 36 aliphatic, aromatic and hetero-aromatic nitriles tested and is capable of rapid growth on high concentrations (0.25–0.38 M) of acetonitrile, benzonitrile and 3-cyanopyridine. The nitrile hydratase of Rhodococcus AJ270 is stable on storage for 18 months at − 20° C, has activity against a very broad range of nitriles and dinitriles and is able to catalyse regio-specific and stereo-specific nitrile biotransformations. The suitability of AJ270 as a robust and versatile biocatalyst is discussed.
Starting from previous binary VZrON (VAlON) oxynitrides with high (low) activity and low (high) selectivity, a new class of ternary VZrAlON catalysts has been developed for the ammoxidation of 3-picoline to 3-cyanopyridine (3-CP), which combine the beneficial properties of the binary oxynitrides, leading to improved selectivity at retained high activity and to the highest space-time yield of 3-CP ever measured (488 g L–1 h–1). This is attributed to the formation of a special −⊡–V5+(O)–N–Al(Zr)– surface moiety consisting of a V5+═O species in the vicinity of a surface nitrogen and an anion vacancy occupied by an electron, which is supposed to provide optimum conditions for a double Mars–van Krevelen mechanism comprising activation of gas-phase oxygen and ammonia via reversible incorporation into the catalyst surface as well as an efficient electron transport.
3-Cyanopyridine (3-CNpy) can act as a bridging or terminal ligand in transition metal coordination polymers. The compounds [MIIBr2(3-CNpy)4] with M = Mn, Fe, Co, Ni (1a–4a) consist of individual complexes, in which the metal atom is octahedrally coordinated by two bromine atoms and four 3-cyanopyridine ligands, which coordinate through their pyridine N atoms only. Thermal decomposition at around 160 °C leads to the release of two 3-cyanopyridine molecules and the formation of [MIIBr2(3-CNpy)2]n with M = Mn, Fe, Co, Ni (1b–4b). For 3b and 4b two polymorphs were observed each (α-3b, β-3b, α-4b, β-4b). In all six phases the metal atoms are linked by bromine bridges into [MIIBr2]n chains. The 3-cyanopyridine ligands again act as terminal ligands coordinating with their pyridine N atoms. Upon further heating to around 250 °C, the compounds [MIIBr2(3-CNpy)1]n with M = Mn, Fe, Co, Ni (1c–4c) are obtained. 1c–4c are again built up from [MIIBr2]n chains with lateral 3-CNpy ligands, but additionally the cyano groups coordinate to the metal atoms. 1c–4c are the first compounds with 3-cyanopyridine as a bridging ligand between two 3d M2+ ions. The bridges connect neighbouring [MIIBr2]n chains and this results in the formation of a wavy, two-dimensional network. All crystal structures were determined from X-ray powder diffraction data.
2-Chloro-3-formylpyridine (2-chloronicotinaldehyde) was obtained by reduction of 2-chloro-3-cyanopyridine by Raney nickel and formic acid (3 1); this intermediate is inaccessible by the above N-oxidation route (peroxyacid oxidation of 3-formylpyridine yields pyridine-N-oxide 3-carboxylic acid). In the synthesis of the parent 1 from 2-chloro-3-formylpyridine, the yield was prejudiced by the formation of the azine species 11.
A small molecule with a 4H-chromene core,MX-58151,with potent anticancer activity in vitro was identified by using the cell-and caspase-based high throughput screening assay.On the basis of scaffold hopping,together with an understanding of the SARs relating to 4-aryl-4H-chromenes,thirteen 4,6-diphenyl-2-amino-3-cyanopyridine derivatives were synthesized in attempt to develop active antitumor agents.The target compounds were synthesized via a one-pot reaction and their chemical structures were confirmed by IR,MS,1H-NMR.The cytotoxic activity of these target compounds was evaluated in vitro by MTT assay against A549,HT-29 and SMMC-7721,with MX-58151 as the positive control.Most of the evaluated compounds exhibited moderate cytotoxic activity against three cancer cell lines.Among them,2-amino-6-(4-fluorophenyl)-4-(2,3,4-trimethoxyphenyl)nicotinonitrile(1) exhibited potent anticancer activity against the A549,HF-29,and SMMC-7721 cell lines with IC50 values of 10,0.33 and 0.25 nmol·L-1,respectively.The preliminary SARs analysis showed that introduction of small lipid-soluble groups on phenyl at C-4 position of pyridine and fluoro atom on phenyl at C-6 position of pyridine was benefit for their activity.
Nicotinic acid biotransformation by immobilized Gibberella intermedia CA3-1 harboring nitrilase was investigated in this study. Chitosan-polyvinyl alcohol was found to exhibit great advantages over other composite materials,with contents of chitosan and polyvinyl alcohol 1.6% and 2%,respectively. The experimental results showed that the optimal transformation conditions were as follows:initial 3-cyanopyridine concentrations of 300mmol/L,transformation temperature of 30℃ and initial pH of 7.0. The substrate could be completely converted within 60 min. Immobilized cells could be reused for up to 26 batches as compared to 9 batches for free cells. And 283.5g nicotinic acid/(g dcw) was produced with 80.55% enzyme activity preserved. Its transformation capability was three times higher than that of free cells. In addition,the immobilization substantially enhanced its tolerance toward high 3-cyanopyridine concentration and improved its thermalstability. Immobilized cells could biosynthesize 191.3g nicotinic acid/(g dcw),retaining 30% enzyme activity by 19 fed-batches.
Using CO2 as a carbonyl building block to synthesize valuable chemicals is an important issue in the field of green and sustainable chemistry. Herein, the conversion of CO2 with glycerol to glycerol carbonate was investigated in the presence of 2-cyanopyridine. It was found that 2-cyanopyridine not only acts as the dehydrating agent to break the thermodynamic limit of the reaction, but also activates the carbonyl bond of CO2 to catalyze the present carbonylation as confirmed by FTIR experimental spectra. Moreover, the activation closely depends on the stereo-structure of cyanopyridine, in that 3-cyanopyridine and 4-cyanopyridine do not have such activating function. The theoretical calculation demonstrated that 2-cyanopyridine could bond CO2 through the conjugating nitrogen to form a five-membered ring, thus CO2 is activated and then reacts with glycerol to produce glycerol carbonate. The reaction parameters were examined and evaluated for the reaction catalyzed with 2-cyanopyridine in the absence of any metal catalysts and additives. With increasing CO2 pressure, the yield of glycerol carbonate increases, and under the optimum conditions an 18.7% yield is obtained which is one of the best results reported up to now. The present work provides a new way for activation of CO2.
Among the several methods available for the synthesis of pyridines or cycloalkyl-fused pyridines [23] [24] [25] [26] [27] [35] [36] [37] [38] [39] [40] [41] [42] [43] [44] , the onepot four-component reaction of cyclic/acyclic ketones, malononitrile, aromatic aldehyde and ammonium acetate affording 2-amino-3-cyanopyridine derivatives have been explored extensively [45] [46] [47] [48] [49] [50] [51] [52] [53] [54] [55] . However, syntheses of pyridine scaffolds bearing an indole side chain have received less attention. For instance, the multicomponent reactions of aldehydes, 3-(1H-indol-3-yl)-3-oxopropanenitriles and 5-aminopyrazol or naphthylamine afforded indole substituted fused pyridine derivatives [56] . 2-Indole substituted pyridine derivatives have also been prepared through AlCl 3 -induced C-C bond forming reaction [57] and three-component reactions of aromatic aldehydes, 3-(1H-indol-3-yl)-3-oxopropanenitrile and malononitrile [58, 59] , 2-acetylpyridine [60] or 3-amino-2-enones [61] . Incidentally, the indole scaffold is found in several natural products and bioactive synthetic compounds [62] [63] [64] [65] [66] [67] . For example, the synthetic drug sumatriptan used for the treatment of migraine and cluster headaches belongs to the triptan class, whereas indomethacin is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug used to relieve pain, swelling and joint stiffness caused by arthritis [68, 69] .
A novel aliphatic nitrilase, REH16, was found in Ralstonia eutropha H16 and overexpressed in Escherichia coli BL21(DE3), and its enzymatic properties were studied. The temperature and pH optima were 37 °C and 6.6, respectively, and the best thermostability of the nitrilase was observed at 25 °C, which preserved 95% of activity after 120 h of incubation. REH16 has a broad hydrolytic activity toward aliphatic and heterocyclic nitriles and showed high tolerance of 3-cyanopyridine; this enzyme could hydrolyze as high as 100 mM 3-cyanopyridine completely. To improve the 3-cyanopyridine conversion efficiency in an aqueous reaction system, water-miscible organic solvents were tested, and ethanol (10% v/v) was chosen as the optimal co-solvent. Finally, under optimized conditions, using the fed-batch reaction mode, total of 1050 mM 3-cyanopyridine was hydrolyzed completely in 20.8 h with eight substrate feedings, yielding 129.2 g/L production of nicotinic acid and thus showing a potential for industrial application.
Abstract Nitrilase was purified ca 28-fold from Chinese cabbage seedlings. Km values of 5.2 × 10−4 and 2.6 × 10−3 M were obtained for indoleacetonitrile (IAN) and 3-cyanopyridine (3-CP) as substrates. For hydrolysis of 3-CP, the maximal velocity was 44 times higher than for the natural substrate IAN. The pH optimum is at 7.5. IAA concentrations from 10−6 to 10−3 M did not inhibit the partially purified enzyme. Nitrilase activity was investigated during development of seedlings grown under continuous light. Roots with hypocotyls exhibited only slightly lower activity than cotyledons based on fresh weight, although their specific activity was ca 5 times higher. Etiolated seedlings showed a very similar distribution of nitrilase activity. The significance of the results for IAA biosynthesis is discussed.
Application of engineered bacteria expressing nitrile hydratase for the production of amide is getting tremendous attention due to the rapid development of recombinant DNA technique. This study evaluated the effect of 3-cyanopyridine concentrations on nicotinamide production using recombinant Escherichia coli strain (BAG) expressing high-molecular-mass nitrile hydratase from Rhodococcus rhodochrous J1, and established proper process of whole-cell catalysis of 3-cyanopyridine and high cell-density cultivation. The process of substrate fed-batch was applied in the production of nicotinamide, and the concentration of product reached 390 g/L under the condition of low cell-density. After the high cell-density cultivation of BAG in 5 L bioreactor, the OD600 of cell attained 200 and the total activity reached 2813 U/mL. Different high density of BAG after fermentation in the tank was used to catalyze 3-cyanopyridine, and the concentration of nicotinamide reached to 508 g/L in just 60 min. The productivity of BAG was 212% higher than that of R. rhodochrous J1, and it is possible that BAG is able to achieve industrial production of nicotinamide.
4-{[3-cyano-4-(methoxymethyl)-6-methyl-2-pyridinyl]oxy}benzoic acid 3 was prepared by the reaction of the 2-chloro-3-cyanopyridine 1 with 4-hydroxybenzoic acid 2 using a literature procedure [1].[...]
Nitrilase-mediated biocatalysis has attracted substantial attention for its application in carboxylic acid production in recent years. In the present study, the fungus CA3-1 was isolated and identified as Gibberella intermedia based on its morphology, its 18S ribosomal DNA (rDNA), and internal transcribed spacer (ITS) sequences. The enzymatic properties of G. intermedia resting cells were determined, and the optimum activity was achieved at 40 °C with pH 7.6. The half-lives of the nitrilase at 30, 40, and 50 °C were 231.1, 72.9, and 6.4 h, respectively. This Gibberella nitrilase showed a wide substrate spectrum with high specificity for heterocyclic and aliphatic nitriles. It remained extremely active in 5% propanol. The presence of Ag(+), Hg(2+), and excess substrate inhibited the nitrilase activity, whereas Fe(2+), Mn(2+), and Li(+) improved enzyme activity. 3-Cyanopyridine (50 mM) was hydrolyzed into nicotinic acid within 30 min, whereas only <5% of nicotinamide was detected. The results show that this fungal nitrilase is a promising candidate for commercial application in nicotinic acid production.
2-Methyl-3-cyanopyridines were converted into the corresponding 2-azidomethyl derivatives, which then underwent an intramolecular cycloaddition reaction. A novel heterocyclic system containing a 3-(tetrazol-5-yl)pyridine unit was obtained in this way.
A kinetic investigation of the ammoxidation of 3-picoline to 3-cyanopyrdine has been studied over V 2 O 5 /ZRO 2 Catalyst in a differential flow reactor in the temperature range 573-683 K. The partial pressures of 3-picoline, oxygen and ammonia were varied and rates were measured for the formation of 3-cyanopyridine. Kinetics studies reveal that the mechanism of the reaction is of the Redox type. The rate equation deduced, assuming a study state involving a three stage oxidation-reduction process, represented the data most satisfactorily for conversion of 3-picoline to nicotinonitrile. Catalysts have been characterized using IR, XRD, ESR, Surface area and ammonia desorption methods with a view to understanding the structure and nature of bonding over the surface of the catalyst. A tentative mechanism of the process has been suggested.
Abstract A simple and an eco-friendly process for the hydration of 3-cyanopyridine to nicotinamide in the presence of manganese dioxide catalyst has been described. The reaction is conducted at moderate temperature with the reaction times of 5–8 h using an aqueous solution of 3-cyanopyridine. The effect of various reaction parameters on the yield of nicotinamide was studied. In most instances, nearly quantitative yields of amides are obtained without any by-products. The IR and ESCA findings of the catalysts are correlated with the catalytic activity.
Mutant of Rhodococcus rhodochrous PA-34, named as 'mutant 4D' has been reported for the hyperconversion of 3-cyanopyridine to nicotinamide. This mutant 4D generated through chemical mutagenesis has much more hydration potential than its wild strain. The reaction conditions for prolonged reaction and process parameters for the conversion of 3-cyanopyridine to nicotinamide were optimized. Under the optimized reaction conditions the mutant 4D is stable at higher temperature (55°C), high ionic strength (0.3 M) and at acidic pH conditions (5.5) and exhibited 8.0, 7.9 and 7.0 U/mg dcw NHase activity, respectively. In a batch reaction of (One litre), 7M 3-cyanopyridine was completely converted to nicotinamide in 3h at 55°C using 7g resting cells (dry cell mass) of mutant 4D of R. rhodochrous PA-34.
Abstract Treatment of piperidinium salts of dihydropyridinethiolates 3 with glycosyl bromides 4 in dry acetone provides a convenient and high yielding synthesis of 1,4-dihydro-3-cyanopyridine thioglycosides 5. The structures of 5 were confirmed by oxidation as well as by 1H NMR and 13C NMR spectral analysis.
A novel synthesis of condensed 2-alkoxy-4-aryl-3-cyanopyridines via reaction of cycloalkanones with arylmethylene-malononitriles or of 2-arylmethylenecycloalkanones with malononitrile in alcoholic sodium hydroxide or sodium alkoxide is reported
The kinetic properties of 18 NAD+ analogues, with alterations to the nicotinamide moiety, have been studied with respect to dogfish M4, rabbit M4 and beef H4 lactate dehydrogenases. ::: ::: ::: ::: The size of the groups present at C-3 of the pyridinium can be increased quite extensively without loss of coenzyme activity. Groups tested were thioamide, methyl, ethyl, diazoketone and chloroacetyl. ::: ::: ::: ::: Substitutions at positions C-4 and C-5 prevent proper positioning for hydride transfer and can hinder binding to the enzyme. The kinetic properties of pyridine-adenine dinucleotide and its 3-iodo derivative reveal the bidning role of the amide at C-3 whereas 3-cyanopyridine-adenine dinculeotide is a strong inhibitor.
Conclusions1.The vapor-phase oxidative ammonolysis of technical quinoline on a fused vanadium — molybdenum catalyst has been studied.2.Nicotinic acid and nicotinamide have been synthesized from 3-cyanopyridine.
Pyrido[3′,2′:4,5]thieno[2,3-c]cinnolines, new heterocyclic compounds, were obtained in three steps: 1) alkylation of 3-cyanopyridine-2(1H)-thiones by o-nitrobenzyl bromide to give 2-(o-nitrobenzyl)thio-3-cyanopyridines, 2) closure of the thiophene ring in these intermediates to give 3-amino-2-(o-nitrophenyl)thieno[2,3-b]pyridines, and 3) closure of the pyridazine ring by condensation of the amino and nitro groups in triethyl phosphite, leading to the final heterocyclic system.
A mixture of Pd(OAc)(2) and TBA(4)[γ-SiW(10)O(34)(H(2)O)(2)] (TBA-SiW10, TBA = [(n-C(4)H(9))(4)N](+)) showed high catalytic activities for hydration of various kinds of structurally diverse nitriles including aromatic, aliphatic, heteroaromatic, and double bond-containing ones. For hydration of 3-cyanopyridine, the turnover frequency was 860 h(-1), and the turnover number reached up to 670. A dipalladium-substituted γ-Keggin silicodecatungstate, [γ-H(2)SiW(10)O(36)Pd(2)(OAc)(2)](4-) (I), was successfully synthesized by the reaction of [γ-SiW(10)O(34)(H(2)O)(2)](4-) with Pd(OAc)(2) in a mixed solvent of acetone and water. The crystal structure of I was a monomeric, dipalladium-substituted, γ-Keggin silicodecatungstate with bidentate acetate ligands. Compound I showed similar activities and selectivities to those of a simple mixture of Pd(OAc)(2) and TBA-SiW10. The kinetic, mechanistic, and density functional theory calculation studies show that the dipalladium site plays an important role in the present hydration, and the nucleophilic attack of a hydroxide or water to the nitrile carbon atom is included in the rate-determining step.
The continuing discharge of nitriles in various industrial processes has caused serious environmental consequences of nitrile pollution. Microorganisms possess several nitrile-degrading pathways by direct interactions of nitriles with nitrile-degrading enzymes. However, these interactions are largely unknown and difficult to experimentally determine but important for interpretation of nitrile metabolisms and design of nitrile-degrading enzymes with better nitrile-converting activity. Here, we undertook a molecular modeling study of enzyme–substrate binding modes in the bi-enzyme pathway for degradation of nitrile to acid. Docking results showed that the top substrates having favorable interactions with nitrile hydratase from Rhodococcus erythropolis AJ270 (ReNHase), nitrile hydratase from Pseudonocardia thermophila JCM 3095 (PtNHase), and amidase from Rhodococcus sp. N-771 (RhAmidase) were benzonitrile, 3-cyanopyridine, and l-methioninamide, respectively. We further analyzed the interactional profiles of these top poses with corresponding enzymes, showing that specific residues within the enzyme’s binding pockets formed diverse contacts with substrates. This information on binding landscapes and interactional profiles is of great importance for the design of nitrile-degrading enzyme mutants with better oxidation activity toward nitriles or amides in the process of pollutant treatments.
Abstract The stoichiometry, stability, and mode of coordination of the 2-, 3-, 4-cyanopyridine, 3-aminocrotononitrile, and 3-aminobutyronitrile complexes of copper(I) in propylene carbonate were investigated by polarography, potentiometry, and infrared spectroscopy. No evidence for the formation of the 1:1 complexes was observed. 2-Cyanopyridine, 3-cyanopyridine, and 3-aminobutyronitrile form 2:1 complexes, while 4-cyanopyridine and 3-aminocrotononitrile form 2:1 and 3:1 complexes over the range of copper(I) and ligand concentrations examined. The cyanopyridines are coordinated to copper(I) ion through the pyridine nitrogen, and the two aminonitriles are coordinated through the amine nitrogen.
In the crystal structure of the title compound, {[Co(NCS) 2 -(C 6 H 4 N 2 ) 4 ]Á2C 4 H 8 O 2 }, the Co II cations are octahedrally coordinated by two terminal N-bonded thiocyanate anions and four N-bonded 3-cyanopyridine ligands. The asymmetric unit consists of one Co II cation, which is located on a special position with site symmetry 2/m, one thiocyanate anion and one dioxane molecule, located on a crystallographic mirror plane, as well as one 3-cyanopyridine ligand in a general position. The crystal structure consists of discrete complexes of [Co(NCS) 2 (3-cyanopyridine) 4 ], as well as two non-coordinating 1,4-dioxane solvent molecules which are disordered due to symmetry.
Abstract This is an original work on catalytic performance of urease in organic synthesis which in one-pot dissociation of urea and condensation of the in situ generated ammonia with aldehydes, acetophenones, and malononitrile occurs in water to give 2-amino-3-cyanopyridines. Comparative experiments with ammonium salts supported the enzymatic specify of 0.01 g/mL (50 U/mg) of urease for bio-production of ammonia, while trace amount of heavy metal ions such as Pb 2+ , Hg 2+ , and Ag + inhibit these specific reactions. The scalability and promiscuity of urease facilitate the applicability of the process for biotechnological organic reactions based on ammonia.
An atom-economical, efficient and mild protocol is described for the synthesis of 2-amino-3-cyanopyridine and 2-amino-3-cyano-4H-pyran derivatives in the presence of high surface area Fe3O4 as a highly effective heterogeneous catalyst via one-pot multicomponent cyclo-condensation reaction.
Abstract The intracellular nitrilase of Nocardia globerula NHB-2 induced by propionitrile catalyses the hydrolysis of 3-cyanopyridine to nicotinic acid without detectable formation of nicotinamide. N. globerula NHB-2 showed highest conversion rate at 40 mM 3-cyanopyridine, in 0.1 M NaH 2 PO 4 /Na 2 HPO 4 buffer (pH 7.5) containing 5 mM 2-mercaptoethanol. In 1 l fed-batch reaction, containing 0.1 M NaH 2 PO 4 /Na 2 HPO 4 buffer (pH 7.5), 4.2 g resting cells (dry weight), at 35 °C, 400 rpm, a total of 1 mol of 3-cyanopyridine added at feed rate of 0.12 mol h −1 was converted to nicotinic acid (98.6%) in 9 h. The rate of nicotinic acid production was 26 mmol h −1 g −1 DW.
Abstract In this study, the catalytic efficiency using NitA from Acidovorax facilis 72W for nicotinic acid (NA) production was investigated and further improved by site-directed mutagenesis. Results showed that the specific activity of mutated NitA-C2 (F168V-S192F) towards 3-cyanopyridine increased 5-fold to 35 U mg −1 protein. Further characterization of the biochemical properties of both nitrilases showed the optimal pH and temperature were 6.0–8.0 and 60 °C, respectively, whereas the pH and thermal stability of NitA-C2 were decreased. Finally, whole cell catalysis was adopted for NA production and a 100% conversion yield was achieved under 0.1 mol L −1 3-cyanopyridine for both strains. Besides, the conversion rate by E. coli BL21 (DE3-pET- nitA -C2) reached to 1.0 mmol min −1 g −1 wet cell weight, which was 3-fold higher than that by E. coli BL21 (DE3-pET- nitA ). These results indicated that the mutated NitA-C2 was a promising candidate which holds potential application in biological NA production.
Under the influence of bases, the 4-6-dimethyl-5-nitro-2-chloro-3-cyanopyridine molecule was found to undergo autohetarylation with the formation of a doubled molecule. Based on RSA data, it was found that such a process takes place exclusively at the methyl group in the 4 position.
ABSTRACT: Nitrile hydratases (NHases) possess a mononuclear iron or cobalt cofactor whose coordination environment includes rare post-translationally oxidized cysteine sulfenic and sulfinic acid ligands. This cofactor is located in the α-subunit at the interfacial active site of the heterodimeric enzyme. Unlike canonical NHases, toyocamycin nitrile hydratase (TNHase) from Streptomyces rimosus is a unique three-subunit member of this family involved in the biosynthesis of pyrrolopyrimidine antibiotics. The subunits of TNHase are homologous to the α-and β-subunits of prototypical NHases. Herein we report the expression, purification, and characterization of the α-subunit of TNHase. The UV−visible, EPR, and mass spectra of the α-subunit TNHase provide evidence that this subunit alone is capable of synthesizing the active site complex with full post-translational modifications. Remarkably, the isolated posttranslationally modified α-subunit is also catalytically active with the natural substrate, toyocamycin, as well as the niacin precursor 3-cyanopyridine. Comparisons of the steady state kinetic parameters of the single subunit variant to the heterotrimeric protein clearly show that the additional subunits impart substrate specificity and catalytic efficiency. We conclude that the α-subunit is the minimal sequence needed for nitrile hydration providing a simplified scaffold to study the mechanism and posttranslational modification of this important class of catalysts.
The kinetics of replacements of 3-cyanopyridine (3CN-py) by pyridine (py) in [Fe(CN)5(3CN-py)]3– at 25 °C, and of nitrosobenzene by [CN]– in [Fe(CN)5(ONPh)]3– at 50 °C, have been studied in solutions containing variouswater concentrations achieved by the addition of sorbitol, glucose, sucrose, glycerol, and ethylene glycol. The observed rate constants pertain to a 200-fold excess of the entering ligand, and a 10-fold excess of the leaving ligand, over the concentration of the starting complexes (5 × 10–5 mol dm–3). Under the reaction conditions used, sorbitol, glucose, sucrose, and even glycerol do not enter the complexes to any significant degree, but, it seems, ethylene glycol does. A large and analogous reduction in rate with decreasing water concentration occurs in both replacement reactions, which suggests that this is a general effect. The results are interpreted in terms of an Id mechanism via a [Fe(CN)5(OH2)]3– reaction intermediate in aqueous solutions.
Abstract The homogeneous catalytic hydration of 2-, 3- and 4-cyanopyridines using 0.5 mol% of [(dippe)Ni(μ-H)] 2 as catalyst precursor was achieved under heating. In the case of 4-cyanopyridine, production of isonicotinamide was observed at temperatures in the range of 80–120 °C. Heating to 180 °C resulted in formation of isonicotinic acid. In the case of 2- and 3-cyanopyridines the quantitative formation of their corresponding amides was achieved at 100 °C. The catalytic hydration of 2,6-dicyanopyridine was also undertaken in this work, in its case resulting in the synthesis of the mixed cyano/amide product, 2-cyanopyridine-6-carboxamide, at short reaction times.
Abstract An efficient synthesis of 2-alkoxy-4-aryl-6-ferrocenyl-3-cyanopyridines via the condensation of ferrocenyl substituted chalcones with malononitrile in a freshly prepared sodium alkoxide solution under ultrasound irradiation was investigated. Especially noteworthy, the reaction of 1-ferrocenyl-3-(pyridin-2-yl)prop-2-ene-1-one with malononitrile afforded 2-alkoxy-4-pyridyl-6-ferrocenylpyridine, with the loss of CN group on the 3-position of pyridine ring was first observed.
Nicotinic acid is widely used in the food, pharmaceutical and biochemical industries. Compared to chemical methods, enzymatic conversion of 3-cyanopyridine is an advantageous alternative for the production of nicotinic acid and nicotinamide. The separation of the product is complicated, owing to its high dilution rate in fermentation broth and high cost. Reactive liquid-liquid extraction by a suitable extractant system has been found to be a promising alternative to the other conventional separation techniques. This paper gives a state-of-the-art review for manufacturing processes (chemical and enzymatic) of nicotinic acid and nicotinamide. It also focuses on the most efficient separation technique, reactive extraction. Reactive extraction has advantages of less consumption of material and energy. It also avoids product inhibition and increases the separation selectivity.
[5006-66-6] C6H5NO3 (MW 139.12) ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: InChI = 1S/C6H5NO3/c8-5-2-1-4(3-7-5)6(9)10/h1-3H,(H,7,8)(H,9,10) ::: ::: ::: ::: InChIKey = BLHCMGRVFXRYRN-UHFFFAOYSA-N ::: ::: ::: ::: (building block for the synthesis of pyridine derivatives useful as agrochemicals, pharmaceuticals, liquid crystals; metal complexing agent) ::: ::: ::: ::: Physical Data: mp 314–316 °C (dec); pKa1 3.8, pKa2 10.8. ::: ::: ::: ::: Solubility: sol DMSO, DMF, aq. NaOH; sol 0.6 g L−1 at 20 °C in water, 4 g L−1 in methanol; insol nonpolar organic solvents. ::: ::: ::: ::: Form Supplied in: off-white solid, ≥98% purity; impurities: max. 0.5% nicotinic acid, 0.3% water. ::: ::: ::: ::: Analysis of Reagent Purity: HPLC, Karl Fischer (H2O). ::: ::: ::: ::: Preparative Methods: industrially, through bacterial oxidation of nicotinic acid1 or 3-cyanopyridine;2 from coumalic acid and NH3.3 ::: ::: ::: ::: Handling, Storage, and Precautions: LD50 (oral, rat) >5000 mg kg−1; no special precautions are necessary.
Abstract The standard ( p °=0.1 MPa) molar enthalpies of formation Δ f H m °(cr) at T =298.15 K were determined using static-bomb calorimetry for crystalline 4-methylpyridine N-oxide (4MePyNO), 3-cyanopyridine N-oxide (3CNPyNO), 4-cyanopyridine N-oxide (4CNPyNO), 3-hydroxypyridine N-oxide (3OHPyNO), 2-pyridinecarboxylic acid N-oxide (2CO 2 HPyNO), 4-pyridinecarboxylic acid N-oxide (4CO 2 HPyNO), 3-methyl-4-nitropyridine N-oxide (3Me4NO 2 PyNO), 2-pyridinecarboxylic acid (2CO 2 HPy), and 4-pyridinecarboxylic acid (4CO 2 HPy). The standard molar enthalpies of sublimation Δ cr g H m ° at T =298.15 K were measured by microcalorimetry, or by a mass-loss effusion technique, and from the enthalpies of formation of the gaseous compounds the dissociation enthalpies D m ° of the (N + -O − ) dative covalent bonds were derived. Comparison has been made with D m °(N-O) values in pyridine N-oxide derivatives.
3-Cyanopyridine, when treated with organolithium or Grignard reagents, gives addition to the 6-position and provides a series of 2-substituted 5-cyanopyridines (6-substituted 3-cyanopyridines). Alternatively, 2-and 4-cyanopyridine react with or and provide 2-acetylpyridine and 4-acetylpyridine, respectively.
Species diversity of bacteria from the activated sludge of Perm biological waste treatment facilities capable of transformation of cyanopyridines and amides of pyridinecarboxylic acids was investigated. Enrichment cultures in mineral media with 3-cyanopyridine as the sole carbon and nitrogen source were used to obtain 32 clones of gram-negative heterotrophic bacteria exhibiting moderate growth on solid and liquid media with 3- and 4-cyanopyridine. Sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene fragments revealed that the clones with homology of at least 99% belonged to the genera Acinetobacter, Alcaligenes, Delftia, Ochrobactrum, Pseudomonas, Stenotrophomonas, and Xanthobacter. PCR analysis showed that 13 out of 32 isolates contained the sequences (~1070 bp) homologous to the nitrilase genes reported previously in Alcaligenes faecalis JM3 (GenBank, D13419.1). Nine clones were capable of nitrile and amide transformation when grown on minimal salt medium. Acinetobacter sp. 11h and Alcaligenes sp. osv transformed 3-cyanopyridine to nicotinamide, while most of the clones possessed amidase activity (0.5 to 46.3 mmol/(g h) for acetamide and 0.1 to 5.6 mmol/(g h) for nicotinamide). Nicotinamide utilization by strain A. faecalis 2 was shown to result in excretion of a secondary metabolite, which was identified as dodecyl acrylate at 91% probability.
An efficient method for the synthesis of 6-thienyl-substituted 2-amino-3-cyanopyridines by the ring transformation in the corresponding pyrimidines was developed. Further modification of the pyridines obtained under conditions of a room temperature aerobic Suzuki reaction in the presence of trans-bis(dicyclohexylamine)palladium(II) acetate as a catalyst was studied
Rhodococcus sp. NDB 1165, a nitrile-transforming organism was isolated from temperate forest soil of Himalayas. The nitrilase (EC 3.5.5.2) activity of this organism had higher substrate specificity toward aromatic nitriles (benzonitrile, 3-cyanopyridine and 4-cyanopyridine) and unsaturated aliphatic nitrile (acrylonitrile) in comparison to saturated aliphatic nitriles (acetonitrile, propionitrile, butyronitrile and isobutyronitrile) nitrile and arylacetonitrile (phenylacetonitrile and indole-3-acetonitrile). The nitrilase of Rhodococcus sp. NDB 1165 was inducible in nature and propionitrile proved to be an efficient inducer. However, the salts of ferrous and cobalt ions had an inhibitory effect. Under optimized reaction conditions (pH 8.0 and temperature 45°C) the nitrilase activity of this organism was 2.39 ± 0.07 U/mg dry cell mass (dcm). The half-life of this enzyme was 150 min and 40 min at 45°C and 50°C respectively. However, it was quite stable at 40°C and around 58 % activity was retained even after 6 h at this temperature. The V max and K m value of this nitrilase were 1.67 µmol/ml min and 0.1 M respectively using 3-cyanopyridine as substrate. However, the decrease in V max and K m values (0.56 µmol/ml min and 0.02 M, respectively) were ␣observed at >0.05 M 3-cyanopyridine which revealed that this enzyme experienced uncompetitive inhibition at higher substrate concentrations. Under optimized reaction conditions, 1.6 M 3-cyanopyridine was successfully converted in to nicotinic acid using 2.0 mg resting cells (dcm)/ml reaction mixture in 11 h. This is the highest production of nicotinic acid i.e. 8.95 mg/mg resting cells (dcm)/h as compared to nitrilase systems reported hitherto.
Substituted 2-amino-4-aryl-3-cyano-5-oxo-5,6-dihydro-4H-pyrano[2,3-d]pyrido[3",2":4,5]thieno[3,2-b]pyridines were synthesized by the reactions of 4-hydroxy-1H-thieno[2,3-b;4,5-b]dipyridin-2-ones with arylidenemalononitriles or by the three-component reactions of hydroxythienodipyridinones with aldehydes and malononitrile in DMF in the presence of triethylamine. Methods for syntheses of substituted 3-alkoxycarbonyl-6-amino-4-aryl-2-(3-cyanopyridin-2-ylthiomethyl)-4H-pyrans were developed on the basis of the reactions of 4-(3-cyanopyridin-2-ylthio)acetoacetates and arylidenemalononitriles or aldehydes and malononitrile. Ethyl 4-(3-cyanopyridin-2-ylthio)acetoacetate and 4-methoxybenzylidenecyanothioacetamide were used for the synthesis of 6-(pyridin-2-ylthiomethyl)-3-cyanopyridine-2(1H)-thione.
3-Cyanopyridine-2-sulfonyl chlorides were synthesized by the oxidative chlorination of the respective 3-cyanopyridine-2(1H)-2-thiones. It was established that 3-cyano-4,6-dimethylpyridine-2-sulfonyl chloride eliminates a SO 2 molecule at the isolation stage. N-Substituted sulfonylamides based on the latter were obtained by the reaction of the crude sulfonyl chloride with amines in an aqueous medium.
Abstract The photoinduced electron transfer (PET) quenching of singlet excited pyrene and 1,2,5,6-dibenzanthracene (DBA) by 3-cyanopyridine and o -dicyanobenzene, respectively, was investigated in several protic and aprotic solvents. The triplet quenching of DBA by p -nitrobenzaldehyde was also studied in the same solvents. In all cases free radical ions yield were measured by laser flash photolysis. In the case of the triplet reaction, forward electron transfer quenching rate constants were also measured. Charge separation efficiencies, ϕ cs were determined from the free radical ions yields. The solvent effect on ϕ cs in singlet state PET may be explained in aprotic solvents by a model based on the macroscopic properties of the solvent. For alcohols the efficiencies are lower than the corresponding quantities for aprotic solvents of similar viscosities and dielectric constant. For triplet mediated PET reactions, the forward rate constants are scarcely sensitive to the solvent, while strong specific solvent effects are important in determining the back-electron-transfer to ground state.
Reactions of Cu(hfacac)(2).H(2)O (hfacac = hexafluoroacetylacetonate) with pyrazine, 3-cyanopyridine, 1,2-bis(4-pyridyl)ethane, and 4,4'-trimethylenebipyridine in methylene chloride have been studied. Two types of products were obtained and crystallographically characterized: compounds 1 (Cu(hfacac)(2)(pyrazine)(2), orthorhombic, Pbca; a = 9.839(2) Å, b = 17.984(2) Å, c = 13.572(2) Å, Z = 4) and 2 (Cu(hfacac)(2)(3-cyanopyridine)(2), triclinic, P&onemacr;, a = 13.175(2) Å, b = 13.955(2) Å, c = 7.936(2) Å, alpha = 104.29(2) degrees, beta = 105.90 degrees, gamma = 81.47(1) degrees, Z = 2) were isolated as molecular complexes, while compounds 3 (Cu(hfacac)(2)(1,2-bis(4-pyridyl)ethane, monoclinic, P2(1)/c, a = 7.922(1) Å, b = 16.266(4) Å, c = 10.163(2) Å, beta =93.83(1) degrees, Z = 2) and 4 (Cu(hfacac)(2)(4,4'-trimethylenebipyridine), monoclinic, Pc, a = 7.940(1) Å, b = 9.691(2) Å, c = 18.539(3) Å, beta = 95.83(2) degrees, Z = 2) were isolated as one-dimensional infinite polymeric chains. The structures were further characterized by infrared spectroscopy, thermogravimetry, and elemental analysis; additionally, the magnetic behavior of all compounds was investigated and found to follow the Curie law. All four compounds feature similar 4 + 2 pseudooctahedral coordination environments around the Cu(II) centers composed of square-planar Cu(hfacac)(2) units with the N-donor ligands occupying the trans positions. The length of the N-donor ligands determines the formation of either molecular complexes (1 and 2, short ligands) or infinite polymeric structures (3 and 4, longer ligands). Important C-F.H-C hydrogen-bonding interactions in compounds 1 and 3 play a significant role in aligning the molecules and the polymer strands in the crystalline solids.
Abstract 3-Cyanopyridine (3-cnp) modulates via inactivation and/or inhibition, the amidase activity of the resting cells of Microbacterium imperiale CBS 489-74 which contained an in situ nitrile hydratase-amidase (NHase/AMase) cascade system suitable for catalyzing the bio-production of nicotinic acid form 3-cnp. The combined effect of 3-cnp concentration and temperature is investigated on the sole AMase activity by selectively inactivating the NHase activity. The study was performed in continuous stirred membrane reactors (CSMRs) fed with 100 mM nicotinamide solutions containing 25–200 mM 3-cnp at various temperatures. At 25–40 °C, the inactivation constant is negligible, even at high 3-cnp concentration, and the decrease in AMase activity is reversible. At 50 °C, a synergistic effect of temperature and 3-cnp inactivates AMase irreversibly, thus preventing a high yield being reached.
Abstract The BePc(H 2 O)·py ( I ), BePc(3-CNpy) ( II ) and BePc(4-CNpy)·(4-CNpy) ( III ) complexes in the crystalline form were obtained by recrystallisation of beryllium phthalocyanine (BePc) in wet pyridine, in liquid 3-cyanopyridine (3-CNpy) and in 4-cyanopyridine (4-CNpy), respectively. Single crystal analyses show 4 + 1 coordination of the Be(II) ion in these complexes. It is equatorially ligated by the four N-isoindole atoms of Pc macrocycle and axially by the O atom of water molecule in I and by the N-ring atom of 3-CNpy in II or 4-CNpy in III . Interaction of the central Be(II) ion of the BePc with axial O or N donating ligands leads to the saucer-shape form of Pc macrocycle and deviates the Be(II) from the N 4 -isoindole plane by 0.308(2) A in I , and 0.297(2) and 0.281(2) A in II and III , respectively. Thus π – π interaction between the π-clouds of Pc aromatic macrorings in I , II and III is the force responsible for the stabilisation of the molecular arrangement in the crystals. Thermogravimetric analyses confirm the compositions of the complexes. The UV–Vis spectra of I , II and III show that Pc π-system is not significantly perturbed by the axial ligands.
Summary We optimized culture and reaction conditions for the production of 3-cyano-6-hydroxypyridine (6-CHP) from 3-cyanopyridine (3-CP) by resting cells of Comamonas testosteroni MCI2848. High reaction activity was induced by the addition of 6-halo-nicotinic acid, as inducer, to the culture medium. The productivity by the intact cells was increased by addition of nicotinic acid or 6-hydroxy nicotinic acid to the reaction mixture. Intact cells of this strain incubated at 30°C in an optimal reaction mixture containing 5 mM sodium nicotinate produced 57.2 g/l of 6-CHP with 100% reaction-selectivity for 40 h.
Background ::: Colorectal cancer is one of the common malignant tumors. Cyanopyridine and aminocyanopyridine having a carbon-nitrogen bond have been shown to have significant anticancer effects. STAT3 is a promising therapeutic target in multiple cancers. However, there are currently no effective STAT3 inhibitors in clinical practice for the treatment of colorectal cancer. ::: ::: ::: Materials and methods ::: We screened 27 cyanopyridines for their anticancer activity by cell viability. The HCT-116, RKO, and DLD-1 cell lines were used to evaluate the anti-colorectal cancer effect of 3n. Scratch experiments and colony formation assays were used for the assessment of cell migration and proliferation capacity. Phosphorylated STAT3, STAT3, MCL-1, and Survivin levels were assessed by Western blot analysis. ::: ::: ::: Results ::: In this study, we synthesized 27 cyanopyridines and screened their anticancer activities in three human tumor cells, HCT-116, Hela229, and A375. We found that 2-amino-3-cyanopyridine 3n has better anticancer activity with IC50 values in the low micromolar range. Furthermore, 3n significantly inhibited the migration and colony formation of colorectal cancer cells. Mechanistically, 3n inhibited the expression of STAT3 phosphorylation in a dose- and time-dependent manner. ::: ::: ::: Conclusion ::: 3n is worth of further investigations toward the discovery of STAT3 inhibitor as a drug candidate for cancer therapy.
These authors contributed equally to this work Background: Colorectal cancer is one of the common malignant tumors. Cyanopyridine and aminocyanopyridine having a carbon-nitrogen bond have been shown to have significant anticancer effects. STAT3 is a promising therapeutic target in multiple cancers. However, there are currently no effective STAT3 inhibitors in clinical practice for the treatment of colorectal cancer. Materials and methods: We screened 27 cyanopyridines for their anticancer activity by cell viability. The HCT-116, RKO, and DLD-1 cell lines were used to evaluate the anticolorectal cancer effect of 3n. Scratch experiments and colony formation assays were used for the assessment of cell migration and proliferation capacity. Phosphorylated STAT3, STAT3, MCL-1, and Survivin levels were assessed by Western blot analysis. Results: In this study, we synthesized 27 cyanopyridines and screened their anticancer activities in three human tumor cells, HCT-116, Hela229, and A375. We found that 2amino-3-cyanopyridine 3n has better anticancer activity with IC50 values in the low micromolar range. Furthermore, 3n significantly inhibited the migration and colony formation of colorectal cancer cells. Mechanistically, 3n inhibited the expression of STAT3 phosphorylation in a dose-and time-dependent manner. Conclusion: 3n is worth of further investigations toward the discovery of STAT3 inhibitor as a drug candidate for cancer therapy.
Colorectal cancer is one of the common malignant tumors in our digestive system, and the morbidity and mortality rate are increasing year by year. [1] [2] [3] At present, the main treatment for colorectal cancer is surgical treatment, combined with radiotherapy and chemotherapy, but surgery alone may not be cured. 4 Drug treatment of colorectal cancer often has drug resistance, leading to a reduction in colorectal cancer survival rate for cancer treatment. 5 Signal transduction and transcriptional activator (STAT3) is defined as an essential oncogene that regulates cancer cell proliferation, apoptosis, and metastasis. 6, 7 To a large extent, STAT3 is considered to be one of the key oncogenes and a key therapeutic target, so inhibition of aberrant activation of STAT3 in colorectal cancer may be a promising strategy. 5, 8, 9 However, to date there have been no clinically useful STAT3 inhibitors for the treatment of cancer. 1, 10, 11 There are many reports on the anti-tumor activity of 2-amino-3-cyanopyridines, but the results are not satisfactory. 12 So far, none of these compounds have entered clinical research, and the structure-activity relationship of the system has not been given. [13] [14] [15] There are relatively few reports on 3-amino-3-cyanopyridine compounds compared to 2-amino-3-cyanopyridine compounds, and there are few studies on the anti-tumor activity of such compounds. 16 Our group has previously demonstrated that the aminocyanopyridines exhibit significant antitumor activity against lung cancers in vitro and in vivo. 17 So we continued our previous studies to further design, synthesize and evaluate the in vitro anticancer activity of a series of aminocyanopyridines.
The alkylation of 6-methyl-4-methoxymethyl-3-cyano-2-(1H)pyridinethione by halogen derivatives in the presence of KOH proceeds regioselectively with the formation of S-alkyl derivatives. By cathodic electrolysis of the thiols in the presence of 6-methyl-4-methoxymethyl-2-chloro-3-cyanopyridine, 2-arylthiopyridines are obtained. By Thorpe-Ziegler cyclization of 2-alkylthiopyridines having an ctive methylene group, 2-aminothieno[2,3-b]pyridines have been synthesized.
The adducts [MBr2(3-cyanopy)n] (where M = Mn(II), Fe(II), Co(II), Ni(II), Cu(II), or Zn(II); 3-cyanopy = 3-cyanopyridine; n = 4 or 2) were synthesized and characterized by melting points, elemental analysis, thermal studies, and IR and electronic spectroscopy. From calorimetric studies in solution, their standard enthalpies of formation and several other thermochemical parameters have been determined. The mean standard enthalpies of the metal–nitrogen bonds were calculated as well as the enthalpies of the adduct formation in the gaseous phase.
Pyridine derivatives have occupied an unique position in medicinal chemistry. Besides many naturally occurring pyridines, several synthetic derivatives show interesting biological activities. For examples, 2-amino-3-cyanopyridines have antibacterial, 1 antimicrobial, 2,3 antifungal, 4 and cardiotonic 5 activities. They are also found to be selective IKK-β serine-threonine protein kinase inhibitors. 6 On the other hand, 3-cyanopyridinone derivatives have antineoplastic,
Molybdenum-containing enzymes involved in the bacterial degradation of N-heteroaromatic compounds catalyze regiospeci¢c hydroxylation reactions [1, 2] . Since the regiospeci¢c functionalization of Nheteroaromatic compounds may be di¤cult to achieve by chemical methods, the preparation of hydroxy-substituted N-heterocycles by microbial hydroxylation may be advantageous. Actually, bioconversion processes can be used for the generation of carbostyril and 6-hydroxycarbostyril from quinoline [3] , 3-cyano-6-hydroxypyridine from 3-cyanopyridine [4] , for the large-scale synthesis of 6-hydroxynicotinate from nicotinate [5^7], and 6-hydroxypicolinate from 2-cyanopyridine or picolinate [8] . As a ¢rst step towards the development of a bioconversion method to produce 2-hydroxynicotinate, a bacterium which regiospeci¢cally hydroxylates nicotinate at position C-2 has been isolated [9] .
Assembly of FeII, 3-cyanopyridine and [Au(CN)2]− affords, in one-pot reaction, three coordination polymers that represent a genuine example of supramolecular isomerism with strong influence in the spin crossover regime of the FeII ions.
A NHase high-producing strain TQD-58 from Rhodococcus ruber CGMCC3090 was closed and bred by both parents inactivated protoplast fusion technique. The two parental strains L 08-03 and LUV 30-06 were derived from a NHase-producing strain R. ruber CGMCC3090 by UV irradiation, UV and LiCl mutating respectively. The protoplasts of L 08-03 and LUV 30-06 were fully inactivated by heating at 55°C for 7 min and by UV irradiation (30W UV light and vertical distance 30cm) for 90 sec respectively. The highest fusion frequency (7.01×10−2) between L 08-03 and LUV 30-06 was obtained by fusion (90s) at the conditions of adding Polyethylene glycol (PEG, 40%). One hyper yielding fusant TQD-58 was screened and its NHase activity with 3-cyanopyridine as substrate was up to 4296.8 U/mL, which was increased by 20.79% and 10.71% compared with that of parental strains L 08-03 and LUV 30-06 , respectively. The genetic stability of TQD-58 was confirmed by successive subculture for 15 times.
A new series of donor–acceptor–donor (D–A–D) type luminescent mesogens carrying 2-methoxy-3-cyanopyridine as a central core linked with variable alkoxy chain lengths (m = 6 and 8) as terminal substituents was synthesized and characterized using spectral methods. The newly synthesized molecules were subjected to single-crystal X-ray diffraction (SCXRD), powder X-ray diffraction (PXRD), differential scanning calorimetric (DSC), polarizing optical microscopy (POM), and fluorescence emission studies in order to ascertain their mesogenic and photophysical properties. The SCXRD data on 4a and 4b reveal that the presence of short intermolecular contacts, viz. C–H···N, C–H···O, C–H···π, and π···π interactions, is responsible for their crystal packing. The measured torsion angle values indicate that molecules possess distorted non-planar structure. The DSC, POM, and PXRD studies confirm that all the molecules show thermotropic liquid crystalline behaviour and exhibit rectangular columnar phase. Further, their UV–visible and fluorescence spectral studies reveal that the target molecules are luminescent displaying a strong absorption band in the range of 335–340 nm and a blue fluorescence emission band in the range of 395–425 nm (both in solution and film state) with good fluorescence quantum yields (10–49 %).
Substituted 4-hydroxy-1H-thieno[2,3-b;4,5-b′]dipyridin-2-ones were prepared by the reactions of 3-cyanopyridine-2(1H)-thiones with alkyl 4-chloroacetoacetates and by intramolecular cyclization of alkyl 4-(2-pyridylthio)acetoacetates or alkyl 3-(3-aminothieno[2,3-b]pyridin-2-yl)-3-oxopropionates under the action of bases.
Comparative studies of immobilized and free cells of Gibberellaintermedia CA3-1 in bioconversion of 3-cyanopyridine to nicotinic acid were performed. Entrapping method was chosen based on the advantages in enzymatic activity recovery, mechanical strength and preparation procedure. Four entrapment matrices were investigated and sodium alginate was screened to be the most suitable material. Maximal nitrilase activity of alginate immobilized cells was obtained under conditions of 2 % alginate, 0.6 % CaCl2, 0.4 g cell/g alginate, 1.8 mm bead size. The immobilized cells showed excellent substrate tolerance even when the 3-cyanopyridine concentration was 700 mM. The half-lives of immobilized cells at 30, 40 and 50 °C were 315, 117.5 and 10.9 h, respectively, correspondingly 1.4, 1.6 and 1.7-fold compared with that of the free cells. Efficient reusability of immobilized cells up to 28 batches was achieved and 205.7 g/(g dcw) nicotinic acid was obtained with 80.55 % enzyme activity preserved.
A bacterial strain capable of utilizing E-pyridine-3-aldoxime as a nitrogen source was isolated from soil after a 4-month acclimation period and was identified as Rhodococcus sp. The strain contained a novel aldoxime dehydration activity that catalyzed a stoichiometric dehydration of E-pyridine-3-aldoxime to form 3-cyanopyridine. The enzyme activity was induced by various aldoximes and nitriles. The strain metabolized the aldoxime as follows: E-pyridine-3-aldoxime was dehydrated to form 3-cyanopyridine, which was converted to nicotinamide by a nitrile hydratase, and the nicotinamide was successively hydrolyzed to nicotinic acid by an amidase.
AIM ::: Simultaneous inhibition of VEGFR2 and Src may enhance the efficacy of VEGFR2-targeted cancer therapeutics. Hence, development of dual inhibitors on VEGFR2 and Src can be a useful strategy for such treatments. ::: ::: ::: MATERIALS & METHODS ::: A multistep virtual screening protocol, comprising ligand-based support vector machines method, drug-likeness rules filter and structure-based molecular docking, was developed and employed to identify dual inhibitors of VEGFR2 and Src from a large commercial chemical library. Kinase inhibitory assays and cell viability assays were then used for experimental validation. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: A set of compounds belonging to six different molecular scaffolds was identified and sent for biological evaluation. Compound 3c belonging to the 2-amino-3-cyanopyridine scaffold exhibited good antiproliferative effect and dual-target activities against VEGFR2 and Src. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: This study demonstrated the ability of the multistep virtual screening approach to identify novel multitarget agents.
Reactions of substituted 3-cyanopyridine-2(1H)-thiones with methyllithium gave 3-acetylpyridine-2(1H)-thiones. The best results were achieved by adding a solid-state thione to a solution of methyllithium in ether (thione: MeLi = 1: 3). The compounds obtained and their 3-pentanoyl analogs were used to synthesize a number of fused heterocyclic systems.
The present study describes the gene cloning, overexpression and characterization of a novel nitrilase from hyperthermophilic bacterium Thermotoga maritima MSB8. The nitrilase gene consisted of 804 base pairs, encoding a protein of 268 amino acid residues with a molecular mass of 30.07 kDa after SDS-PAGE analysis. The optimal temperature and pH of the purified enzyme were 45°C and 7.5, respectively. The enzyme demonstrated good temperature tolerance, with 40% residual activity after 60 min of heat treatment at 75°C. The kinetic constants Vmax and Km of this nitrilase toward 3-cyanopyridine were 3.12 μmol/min/mg and 7.63 mM, respectively. Furthermore, this novel nitrilase exhibited a broad spectrum toward the hydrolysis of the aliphatic nitriles among the tested substrates, and particularly was specific to aliphatic dinitriles like succinonitrile, which was distinguished from most nitrilases ever reported. The catalytic efficiency kcat/Km was 0.44 /mM/s toward succinonitrile. This distinct characteristic might enable this nitrilase to be a potential candidate for industrial applications for biosynthesis of carboxylic acid.
Derivatives of a new heterocyclic system - benz[4,5]imidazo[1,2-c]pyrido[3',2';4,5]thieno[2,3-e]pyrimidine have been obtained by successive reactions in three stages - alkylation of 3-cyanopyridine-2(1H)-thiones with 2-chloromethylbenzylimidazole to give 2-benzimidazolylmethylthio-3-cyanopyridines, closing the thiophene ring in the latter to form 3-amino-2-(benzimidazolyl-2)thieno[2,3-b]pyridines, and cyclization of the pyrimidine ring by acylation with carboxylic acid anhydrides or chlorides.
Abstract Coordination compounds between 3-cyanopyridine(cypy) and the group(IV) halides have been prepared and their infrared (i.r.) spectra (4000-200 cm−1) have been studied. Two types of compounds, MX4. cypy and MX4. 2cypy, where M = Ti, Sn, Zr or Hf and X = Cl or Br, have been characterized. I.R. spectral results suggest coordination through the pyridine-nitrogen and in the 1:1 complexes also through the cyano nitrogen. An attempt has also been made to identify and determine the number of the metal-halogen and metal-ligand stretching bands in the far i.r. region and thereby study the symmetry of some of the complexes.
3-Hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP) is an important platform chemical in organic synthesis. Traditionally, 3-HP was produced by chemical methods and fermentation process. In this work, a novel enzymatic method was developed for green synthesis of 3-HP. A yeast strain harboring nitrile-hydrolyzing enzyme was newly isolated from environmental samples using 3-hydroxypropionitrile (3-HPN) as the sole nitrogen source. It was identified to be Meyerozyma guilliermondii CGMCC12935 by sequencing of the 18S ribosomal DNA and internal transcribed spacer, together with analysis of the morphology characteristics. The catalytic properties of M. guilliermondii CGMCC12935 resting cells were determined, and the optimum activity was achieved at 55 °C and pH 7.5. The enzyme showed broad substrate specificity towards nitriles, especially 3-HPN, aminoacetonitrile and 3-cyanopyridine. The presence of Ag+, Pb2+ and excess substrate inhibited the enzyme activity, whereas 5% (v/v) ethyl acetate had a positive effect on the enzyme activity. M. guilliermondii CGMCC12935 resting cells by addition of 3% glucose could thoroughly hydrolyze 500 mM 3-HPN into 3-HP within 100 h and the maximal accumulative production of 3-HP reached 216.33 mM, which was over twofolds than the control group with no additional glucose. And this work would lay the foundation for biological production of 3-HP in industry.
2-Guanadino-3-cyanopyridines 8-33 and pyrido[2,3-d]-pyrimidines 35-52 were synthesized by nucleophilic displacement and cyclization of the chloroamidines 6a-d easily obtained by reaction of 2-aminocyanopyridines 5a-d with phosgene iminium chloride and their action on the release of histamine by mast cells examined under immunological and chemical stimulus, with and without pre-incubation. Several 2-guanadino-3-cyanopyridines and pyrido[2,3-d]-pyrimidines are shown to be inhibitors of the release of histamine when stimulated with ovoalbumin as antigen or with polymer 48/80 as chemical stimulus. Guanadino-3-cyanopyridine 30 and pyrido[2,3-d]-pyrimidine 49 are the more active of all, inhibiting the release of histamine in all the conditions tested (30-60% inhibition). Guanadinocyanopyridines 15, 17, and 19 are very potent stimulators of the release of histamine (150-300%) while pyrido[2,3-d]-pyrimidines are mostly inactive. Compounds 28 and 14 present moderate in vitro cytotoxic activity against P-388, A-549, HT-29, and MEL-28 cell lines.
Approximately 4600 microorganisms isolated from soil and 110 bacteria from stock cultures were screened for their ability to hydroxylate 3-cyanopyridine (3-CP). Many strains were found to be capable of hydroxylating 3-CP. One of the strains with the highest activity was selected and identified as Comamonas testosteroni (MCI 2848). The product was isolated and identified as 3-cyano-6-hydroxypyridine (6-CHP). We optimized culture and reaction conditions for the production of 6-CHP by resting cells of MCI 2848. The activity was induced by addition of nicotinic acid or pyridine-3-aldoxime to the culture medium. The optimal temperature and pH of the reaction were 28°C and 7.0, respectively. When resting cells was incubated with 3% (w/v) 3-CP, 95% of the 3-CP was converted into 6-CHP within 47 h.
Nicotinic acid can be produced through direct hydrolysis of 3-cyanopyridine by Nitrilase.By high throughput screening,Nitrilase 131 was selected from 30 nitrilases as an applicable catalyst.It was measured that the conversion rate was the highest when its enzyme activity was 17.6U/mL and its specific activity was 35.2U/mg.At a temperature of 30℃ and a pH value of 8.0,when the initial substrate concentration was 8 ~ 10 g·L-1,3-cyanopyridine could be transformed into nicotinic acid completely with a pure product yield about 85%.The product structure was validated by MS and NMR.This study provides a new idea for the green technology of nicotinic acid's preparation.
The invention discloses a 3-cyanopyridine derivative synthesized from lignin and preparation as well as application thereof. The preparation comprises the following steps of: performing selective oxidation on the lignin serving as a raw material to prepare aromatic aldehyde mixture; rectifying the aromatic aldehyde mixture obtained by separation to obtain single aromatic aldehyde; and then performing one-pot four-component reaction on aromatic ketone, the single aromatic aldehyde, malononitrile and ammonium acetate serving as raw materials to produce the 3-cyanopyridine derivative. According to the3-cyanopyridine derivative and the preparation as well as the application thereof, the lignin is directly used as the raw material and is cheap and readily available, the cost can be greatly saved, the synthesis method is also more efficient and environment-friendly, and the product also has better anti-cancer activity.
Pyridine-3-carbonitrile derivatives represent an important class of heterocyclic compounds characterized by promising biological properties. Recent publications describing pharmacological properties of pyridine-3-carbonitrile-containing analogues such as vasodilation activities are considered a driving force behind the present investigation [1] . Moreover, bioactivity and applications as pharmacological active agents and agricultural materials of pyridinecarbonitriles also prompted the present study [2, 3] . Additionally, 4-aminopyridine-3-carbonitriles were reported as PKCθ inhibitors [4] [5] [6] . PKCθ, a novel isoform of protein kinase C (PKC), is crucial for the activation and survival of T cells [7] . Proof-of-concept studies with mice where the PKCθ gene was deleted or 'knocked out' validated that the inhibition of this kinase could have therapeutic utility in diseases such as multiple sclerosis [8] and arthritis [9] . 2-Alkoxypyridine-3-carbonitrile derivatives were reported to be active antimicrobial agents against Gram-positive, Gram-negative and acid fast bacteria and yeast [10] . Also, pyridine-3carbonitriles with amino acid functions were reported to exhibit considerable antimicrobial properties [11] . 2-Amino-3-cyanopyridine derivatives were proved to have antitubercular activity against Mycobaterium tuberculosis H 37 RV ATCC 27294, in BACTEC 12 B medium using the ALAMAR OPEN ACCESS M794 (Page 2) radiometric system comparing with the standard drug rifampin [12] . 4-Aryl-6-(4-pyridyl)-2-oxo/ thioxo-1,2-dihydropyridine-3-carbonitriles and 2-amino-4-aryl-6-(4-pyridyl)-pyridine-3-carbonitriles were proved to exert cardiotonic activity comparable to that of milrinone using a spontanously beating atria model from reserpine-treated guinea pigs [13] . Pyridine-3-carbonitrile analogues were also reported as fluorescent materials useful as security markers for treatment of paper [14] [15] [16] . From all the above reports and in continuation with our previous work directing towards construction of various pyridine-3-carbonitrile containing-compounds [17] [18] [19] , it is intended in the present work to investigate synthesis of 2-(4-methylpiperazin-1-yl)-4-phenyl-6-(thiophen-2-yl)-pyridine-3-carbonitrile.
ABSTRACT 3,6-Bis(3′-pyridyl)-1,2,4,5-tetrazine was prepared by reaction of 3-cyanopyridine with hydrazine. Slow evaporation of 3,6-bis(3′-pyridyl)-1,2,4,5-tetrazine with trimesic acid, in a 2:1 molar ratio in methanol afforded single crystals of 1 C33H22N12O6, suitable for X-ray analysis. The product was characterized by spectroscopic and single-crystal X-ray diffraction studies. The hydrogen bond mediated self-assembly of 3,6-bis(3′-pyridyl)-1,2,4,5-tetrazine with trimesic acid molecules generates 1-dimensional multi-compartmental arrays in the solid state as revealed by X-ray crystallographic analysis. The crystal structure of 1 is monoclinic with a = 28.445(3), b = 6.7088(10), c = 33.846(4) A˚ , α = 90°, β = 108.112(7°, γ = 90°, Z = 8, and space group C2/c. The directional intermolecular hydrogen bonding between 3,6-bis(3′-pyridyl)-1,2,4,5-tetrazine and trimesic acid molecules uses O − H … N and C − H … O interactions, together with intramolecular C − H … N hydrogen bonding, to build up the one-dimensi...
Nitriles R–CH2CN where R is CN, SO2C6H5, C6H4-NO2-p, C6H4-CF3-m, are effective reagents for converting 5-nitropyrimidine (1) into 2-amino-5-nitro-3-R-pyridines (7). In reactions of 1 with cyanoacetic acid derivatives (methyl, ethyl, tert-butyl esters), 3-cyano-5-nitro–2(1H)-pyridone is formed in addition to 7. Ketonic nitriles, such as 3-oxobutyronitrile and 3-oxo–3-phenylpropionitrile, react with 1 to form 2-methyl- and 2-phenyl-5-nitro-3-cyanopyridine, respectively. ::: ::: ::: ::: Plausible mechanisms are discussed. The reaction of 1 with N-(cyanoacetyl)carbamate provides a facile synthetic route to 1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-6-nitropyrido[2,3-d]pyrimidine-2,4-dione.
The reaction of 3-cyanopyridine-2(1 H)-thiones with BuLi in ether was studied. It was found that the metallation proceeds initially at the sulfur atom. The resulting lithium salts add a second equivalent of n-butyllithium at the CN group. The hydrolysis of the dilithium derivatives leads to 3 pentanoylpyridine-2(IH)-thiones.
Abstract The investigations of new pyrazine and pyridine derivatives showing an antibacterial activity have been made. Upon treatment of 3-chloro-2-cyanopyrazine [1] and 2-chloro-3-cyanopyridine with 1,1-dimethyl-hydrazine, 1-aminopiperidine and 1-amino-4-methylpiperazine, either the pyrazolo-pyrazine ( 1 ), and -pyridine ( 2 ) derivatives, or ammonium salts ( 3 – 8 ) were obtained, according to the reaction conditions. Compound 1 was obtained in the reaction of the initial nitrile with methylhydrazine as well. The reactions of 1 gave the following derivatives: acylation—( 9 ), that with p -chlorobenzoic aldehyde—( 10 ), and with phenyl-isothiocyanate—( 11 ). 3-Chloro-2-cyanopyrazine treated with hydrazine hydrate gave amidrazone ( 12 ), which upon condensation with p -chlorobenzoic aldehyde produced ( 13 ). The compounds obtained were tested in vitro for their tuberculostatic activity. The minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC) values were within 22–100 μg/cm 3 . Compounds 1 , 5 and 6 were also tested in vitro for their activity towards 25 strains of anaerobic, and 25 strains of aerobic bacteria. They appeared to be of elevated activity towards the anaerobes and of low one towards the aerobes (Table 2).
Rhodococcus rhodochrous PA-34 has been reported to produce nitrile hydratase enzyme that converts 3-cyanopyridine to nicotinamide. A mutant of R. rhodochrous PA-34 was generated through chemical mutagenesis using N-methyl-N-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG) that exhibited 2 times higher nitrile hydratase activity as compared to wild strain. The reaction conditions using resting cells of this mutant strain for the conversion of nicotinamide were optimized. Under the optimized reaction conditions the mutant strain exhibited maximum nitrile hydratase activity [7.8 U/mgdcm (milligram dry cell mass)] at 55 degrees C in 0.3 M potassium phosphate buffer (pH 5.5).
Chalcones 3a-d were synthesized by condensing khellinone 1 with aryl aldehydes 2a-d. Chalcones 3a-c reacted with hydrazine hydrate in ethanol or in glacial acetic acid to afford 1H- pyrazolines 4a-c or N-acetylpyrazolines 5a-c, respectively. N-phenylpyrazolines 6a,b were synthesized by reaction of chalcones 3a,b with phenyl hydrazine in ethanol. When 3b was refluxed in ethanol containing piperidine, it yielded 4,9-dimethoxy-7-(naphth-1-yl)-6,7-dihydro-5H-furo(3,2-g)chromen-5- one 7. Moreover, Chalcone 3c reacted with 2-cyanoacetamide or 2-cyanothioacetamide in ethanol to afford 3-cyanopyridines 8a and 8b respectively. The structure of the synthesized compounds was established based on elemental analysis and spectral data. The metal complexes 9, 10 and 11 of chalcone 3c; (L) with (Ni(II), Co(II) and Zn(II)) respectively, were synthesized and characterized by IR, 1 H NMR, electronic absorption, magnetic susceptibility, molar conductivity and elemental analysis. The prepared complexes 9-11 had the general structural formula: (M(L)Cl2(H2O)2) where M=Ni(II), Co(II) or Zn(II) and L=3c. In order to study the structure-activity relationship, representative compounds of the synthesized products beside the metal complexes were screened for their antibacterial activities. The results indicated that some synthesized compounds had antibacterial activity as well as the metal complexes 9, 10 and 11 exhibited moderate antibacterial activities while the free ligand 3c; (L) had no activity.
The paper presents the results of 35Cl-NQR frequency and spin-lattice relaxation time measurements as a function of the temperature in some solid hydrogen-bonded complexes: Trichloroacetic acid (TCA)–3-cyanopyridine, TCA–4-methylpyridine and [CCl3COO···H···OOCCCl3]−[K]+. The activation energies, Ea, for hindered rotation of CCl3 group of the TCA molecule were determined. Employing the available Ea data for the other complexes of this type a linear dependence between the activation energy and 35Cl–NQR frequency shift was obtained. This dependence allowed us to find Ea=f(ΔpKa) as well as Ea=f′(P) where P is the proton transfer degree. The influence of hydrogen bond on the potential barrier of the rotating CCl3 groups of TCA in the complexes studied is also discussed.
Abstract The synthesis of the pyrido[4,3-d]pyrimidine congeners (7 and 8) of inosine and adenosine from the known precursor 3-dimethylamino-2-(2,3-0-isopropylidene-5–0-trityl-D-ribofuranosyl)acrylonitrile (10) is described. The synthetic sequence involves a modified Thorpe-Ziegler annulation to a 4-amino-3-cyanotetrahydropyridine derivative (22) followed by aromatization to an α, β mixture of the desired 5-ribosyl-4-amino-3-cyanopyridine intermediates (25 and 26). Further annulation to the pyrido[4,3-d]pyrimidine ring system and simultaneous detritylation and deisopropylidenation completes the synthesis.
W–V complex metal oxide (W–V–O) was prepared by hydrothermal synthesis method. Characterization by XRD, XPS, ICP-AES, N2 adsorption, and STEM showed that W–V–O had a layered structure with micropore. W–V–O was tested for the vapor phase ammoxidation of 3-picoline (PIC) to 3-cyanopyridine (CP) and compared with VOx/WO3 catalyst prepared by impregnation method and other V-based catalysts which were reported to be efficient for this reaction. W-added vanadium oxides, W–V–O and VOx/WO3, showed higher CP selectivity than conventional catalysts such as VOx/TiO2. The W–V–O catalyst showed the highest CP selectivity of 99.5% at full PIC conversion. Kinetic studies showed that CP was the primary product and small amount of pyridine and CO2 were produced from CP. The reaction by W–V–O in low NH3 concentration condition or without co-feeding of water was also studied to evaluate the catalytic performance of W–V–O in industrially relevant conditions.
A nitrile hydratase (NHase) gene from Aurantimonas manganoxydans, cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli, gave an enzyme that efficiently hydrated 3-cyanopyridine to nicotinamide with high thermal stability. We have now found that adding Co(2+) at 0.1 mM to LB medium was essential for production of an active enzyme. However, ≥0.3 mM Co(2+) inhibited the growth of host cells in LB medium and decreased the production of the recombinant NHase. Furthermore, β-mercaptoethanol promoted regeneration of the Co(2+)-defective apoenzyme in vitro possibly by breaking a key disulfide bond thereby promoting the incorporation of Co(2+) into the apoenzyme.
Resting cells of Comamonas testosteroni JA1 with 3-cyanopyridine hydroxylation activity can also hydroxylate nicotinic acid to 6-hydroxynicotinic acid.Higher production of 6-hydroxynicotinic acid depended on the presence of 1% glucose,1% peptone and 1% nicotinic acid which used as the inducer.In addition,the fermentation conditions of C.testosteroni JA1 strain were very ascendant.The nicotinic acid hydroxylation activity was not descend obviously but stayed highly with an increase from 25℃ to 37℃,pH value from 6.5 to 7.0 and the medium volume from 10mL to 40mL.
General introduction to biocatalysis and screening (K. Kieslich). Screening of novel enzymes for the production of useful compounds (H. Yamada). A Japanese screening approach: selection of an opine dehydrogenase and alkaline D-peptidase (Y. Asano). Screening and expression cloning of fungal enzyme genes of industrial relevance (H. Dalboge). The enormous diversity and biotechnological potential of naturally occurring bacteria (E. Stackebrandt). Automated techniques in screening for microorganisms with biocatalytic properties (O. Favre-Bulle et al. ). Fluorescence screening for lipolytic enzymes (A. Hermetter et al. ). DRASTIC (diffuse reflectance absorbance spectoscopy taking in chemometrics). A novel, rapid, hyperspectral, FT-IR-based approach to screening for biocatalytic activity and metabolite overproduction (D.B. Kell et al. ). Filtration and separation materials for analytical purposes (R.G. Hood). Time resolved fluorescence based assays in screening for biocatalytic activities (S. Webb). Screening for inhibitors of human brain myo-inositol monophosphatase (A.J. Ganzhorn et al. ). Miniaturization of radioisotopic, luminescent and fluorescent assays to 384-well microplates (A.J. Kolb). Screening of bacteria at high temperatures to select nucleoside antibiotics producers (T. Utagawa). Posters. Passive and active screening of D-hydantoinase-producing microorganisms (A. Morin, D. Leblanc). High level production of 3-cyano-6-hydroxypyridine from 3-cyanopyridine by Comamonas testosteroni MCI2848 (M. Ueda et al. ). Investigation of the beta-glucosidases potentialities of yeast strains and application to bound aromatic terpenols liberation (Y. Gueguen et al. ). Selection and study of a Candida molischiana mutant derepressed for beta-glucosidase production: application to flavor development of wines and fruit juices (Y. Gueguen et al. ). Microbial degradation of 2,5-diketopiperazines (H. Kanzaki, K. Kawazu). Production of novel derivatives of a gastrin antagonist (GW1) using biotransformation (A. Blackaby et al. ). Characterization of some isoprenoid-biosynthetic enzymes from plant cell cultures (R. van der Heijden et al .). A DRASTIC (Diffuse Reflectance Absorbance Spectroscopy Taking In Chemometrics) approach for the rapid analysis of microbial fermentation products: quantification of Aristeromycin and Neplanocin A in Streptomyces citricolor broths (M.K. Winson et al. ). Screening for alkyl sulfosuccinate degrading microorganisms (M. Proksova). Isolation, partial purification and characterization of a novel cyclic dipeptidase (D.P. Pantaleone et al. ). Alkane hydroxylase systems in Pseudomonas aeruginosa strains able to grow on n-octane (J.B. van Beilen et al .). Screening tropical microbial biodiversity for biotechnological applications: an overview (M.C. Srinivasan). Screening cultures using solid state fermentation (S. Suryanarayan et al. ).
PURPOSE: To easily obtain the compound in high yield by reacting a 4-amino-6- alkyl-3-oxo-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1,2,4-triazine or the like with a 3-cyanopyridine under specified conditions. CONSTITUTION: The compound is obtained by reacting a 4-amino-6-alkyl-3- oxo-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1,2,4-triazine of formula I (R is methyl, ethyl or the like) which is an aminotriazine, or a hydrogen chloride adduct with a 3-cyanopyridine in an aqueous alcoholic medium (80:20 of methanol:water) in the presence of a pH buffer (preferable pH is 3.5 to 6) and in the presence of a 5 to 7 wt.% of Raney-nickel catalyst preferably at a room temperature under hydrogenation conditions, whereby the hydrogen pressure is preferably 0.1 to 10 bar and the concentration of the reaction compound is preferably 30 to 50%. COPYRIGHT: (C)1994,JPO
1. ::: ::: 6-(1-Adamantyl)-3-cyanopyridine-2(1H)-thione, a convenient synthon for the preparation of adamantyl-substituted thieno[2,3-b]pyridines, has been obtained for the first time. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: Alkylation of the pyridinethione has given 2-mercapto-substituted 6-(1-adamantyl)-3-cyanopyridines, which cyclize in the presence of bases to 2-substituted-6-(1-adamaiityl)-3-aminothieno[2,3-b]pyridines. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: The structure of bis[6-(1-adamantyl)-3-cyanopyrid-2-yl] disulfide has been confirmed by an x-ray structural examination.
Abstract Substituted aromatics and heteroaromatics can be oxidized or ammoxidized to the corresponding aldehydes and nitriles by vapor phase heterogeneous catalysis. Specifically, alpha-methylstyrene can be oxidized to atropoaldehyde or ammoxidized to atroponitrile; beta-methylstyrene and aliylbenzene oxidized to cinnamaldehyde or indene, or ammoxidized to cinnamonitrile; ethylbenzene is easily oxidized to styrene; toluene to benzaldehyde and benzonitrile; 3-methyl pyridine ammoxidizes to 3-cyanopyridine (nicotinonitrile), 4-methylpyridine to 4-cyanopyridine, and 4-methylthiazole to 4-cyanothiazole. Uses of these end products range from monomer materials for atroponitrile and styrene, to Vitamin B-Complex precursors for nicotinonitrile, to fungicides and anthelmintics for 4-cyanothiazole. Catalysts which affect the conversion of these starting materials to the desired end products are comprised of complex mixed metal oxides belonging to the group of antimonates, molybdates, tungstates and vanadates. These can be used unsupported, or more conveniently supported on silica, alumina, or titania in large scale industrial production.
Three-dimensional open frameworks [Co2(nicotinate)4(mu-H2O)]-CH3CH2OH-H2O, 1, and [Ni2(nicotinate)4(mu-H2O)]-CH3CH2OH-H2O, 2, were obtained by hydro(solvo)thermal reactions between 3-cyanopyridine and cobalt(II) nitrate and nickel(II) perchlorate, respectively. Both 1 and 2 exhibit complicated 3-D structures based on [M2(nicotinate)4(mu-H2O)] (M = Co or Ni) building blocks and possess open channels that are occupied by removable solvent molecules. 3-D open frameworks [M2L4(mu-H2O)]-HL-(H2O)x (where M = Co, x = 2, 3, and M = Ni, x = 1, 4, and L = trans-3-(3-pyridyl)acrylate) were similarly prepared with trans-3-(3-pyridyl)acrylic acid in place of 3-cyanopyridine. Compounds 3 and 4 are isostructural and exhibit network topologies similar to that of 1 with open channels occupied by disordered trans-3-(3-pyridyl)acrylic acid and water guest molecules. Crystal data for 1: triclinic space group Ponebar, a = 10.534(1) A, b = 11.907(1) A, c = 14.046(1) A, alpha = 106.645(1) degrees, beta = 101.977(1) degrees, gamma = 112.078(1) degrees, and Z = 4. Crystal data for 2: tetragonal space group P4/ncc, a = 20.089(1) A, c = 14.016(1) A, and Z = 4. Crystal data for 3: monoclinic space group C2/c, a = 14.082(2) A, b = 15.278(2) A, c = 18.537(2) A, beta = 105.360(2) degrees, and Z = 2. Crystal data for 4: monoclinic space group C2/c, a = 14.082(1) A, b = 15.250(1) A, c = 18.606(1) A, beta = 106.747(1) degrees, and Z = 2.
Superparamagnetic nanoparticles of modified vitamin B3 (Fe3O4@Niacin) represent a new, efficient and green biocatalyst for the one-pot synthesis of 2-amino-3-cyanopyridine derivatives via four-component condensation reaction between aldehydes, ketones, malononitrile, and ammonium acetate under microwave irradiation in water. This new magnetic organocatalyst was easily isolated from the reaction mixture by magnetic decantation using an external magnet and reused at least six times without significant degradation in the activity. The catalyst was fully characterized by FT-IR, XRD, SEM, VSM, UV–Vis, DLS and EDS. Excellent yield, very short reaction time (7–10 min), operational simplicity, easy work-up procedure, avoidance of hazardous or toxic catalysts and organic solvents are the main advantages of this green methodology which makes it more economic than the other conventional methods.
The invention relates to a method for preparing high-purity gimeracil. A pre-column crude gimeracil product is prepared from 2-hydroxy-4-methoxy-3-cyanopyridine serving as an initial raw material through chlorination addition and hydrolysis two-step reaction. The method comprises the following steps of: 1) dissolving the pre-column crude gimeracil product in chloroform or a methanol-containing chloroform solution, adding into a silica gel column, eluting the column by using a solution prepared from chloroform and methanol in a volume ratio of 100:3, eluting by using a solution prepared from chloroform, methanol and acetic acid in a volume ratio of 10:1:0.5, collecting eluent after a target component occurs, and concentrating the collected eluent to obtain a crude gimeracil product; 2) dissolving the crude gimeracil product in methanol-containing chloroform, and concentrating until the solution is dry; 3) dissolving a product obtained in the step 2) in methanol, filtering to remove impurities which are not dissolved in the methanol, and concentrating until the solution is dry; and 4) adding an organic solvent into a product obtained in the step 3), heating for dissolving, distilling under normal pressure to obtain part of liquid, cooling for crystallization, filtering, and drying to obtain a finished gimeracil product. The gimeracil has the characteristics of simple preparation method, high purity, low cost and the like.
4-Trifluoromethyl-6-phenyl-2-chloro-3-cyanopyridine was synthesized, and its molecular-crystal structure was established. The chlorine atom was replaced by amino, mercapto, thiocyanato, and azido groups. The possibility of the direct amination of 4-trifluoromethyl-6-phenyl-3-cyano-2-pyridone by the action of hexamethylphosphoric triamide (HMPT) was demonstrated.
Hydrolysis of 3-cyanopyridine in high temperature liquid water was determined without added catalysts in order to exploit green preparation technology of nicotinic acid and nicotinamide.The hydrolysis reaction kinetics of 3-cyanopyridine and its intermediate nicotinamide was studied from 483.15 to 523.15 K after investigating the repeatability of experiment data and the influence of initial concentration of 3-cyanopyridine on reaction.Results showed that selective production of nicotinamide or nicotinic acid was possible at different reaction conditions;the hydrolysis of 3-cyanopyridine was consecutive first-order reaction;the activation energies evaluated were 65.2 kJ/mol for 3-cyanopyridine hydrolysis and 85.8 kJ/mol for nicotinamide hydrolysis.The results provide an important basic data for the green preparation of nicotinic acid and nicotinamide and exploring the rule of nitriles hydrolysis in high temperature liquid water.
Abstract The ammoxidation of 3-alkylpyridines on unsupported, unpromoted vanadium oxides has been investigated in the presence and in the absence of molecular oxygen. The latter reaction, resulting in the reduction of the vanadium oxide, was termed oxidative ammonolysis. Reactions were performed under nearly isothermal conditions in a microscale fluidized bed reactor in the temperature range from 250° to 450°C. Vanadium oxides were characterized by X-ray analysis, TPR, BET and titrimetric measurements. Ammoxidation of 3-picoline on V 2 O 5 gave a maximum yield of 60% 3-cyanopyridine at 370°C, corresponding to 90% conversion. V 4 O 9 exhibited a similar selectivity as V 2 O 5 . VO 2 was active, but nonselective, and converted rapidly to V 6 O 13 under ammoxidation conditions. Of the multiple phase oxides, V 2 O 5 /V 4 O 9 and V 4 O 9 /VO 2 showed a selectivity comparable to the single phase oxides, V 2 O 5 and V 4 O 9 however, their properties changed under ammoxidation conditions. 3-ethylpyridine was ammoxidized with comparable activity and selectivity as 3-picoline. In contrast, ammoxidation of 2-methy1-5-ethylpyridine gave a maximum yield of only 25% 3-cyanopyridine, due to enhanced destruction of the pyridine ring.
Abstract A thermostable nitrilase produced by the thermophilic bacterium Bacillus pallidus Dac521 catalyzed the direct hydrolysis of 3-cyanopyridine to nicotinic acid without detectable formation of nicotinamide. The reaction conditions for nicotinic acid production were optimized by using free bacterial cells. Temperature and pH optima were 60°C and 8.0, respectively, with no detectable mass transfer limitation at the highest cell loading. Under optimized conditions, 100% of the 3-cyanopyridine substrate could be converted to nicotinic acid at a conversion rate of 76 nmol/min/mg dry cell weight. Free bacterial cells were effective in converting 3-cyanopyridine at concentrations of up to 0.3 M and the intracellular 3-cyanopyridinase stability was increased in the presence of the substrate at concentrations of 0.2 and 0.3 M. Both 3-cyanopyridine and nicotinic acid inhibited the hydrolysis of 3-cyanopyridine at concentrations greater than 0.2 M. Cells immobilized in calcium alginate beads retained 98% of initial activity and were more resistant to inactivation/inhibition than nonimmobilized cells at 60°C. Calcium alginate immobilized cells used in a column bioreactor retained 100% of 3-cyanopyridinase activity for over 100 h and 10 h when continuously supplied with 0.1 M 3-cyanopyridine at 50°C and 60°C, respectively. The conversion efficiencies of the bioreactors operated at 50°C and 60°C, at 100% 3-cyanopyridinase activity, were 104 mg (substrate)/g (cells)/h and 208 mg (substrate)/g (cells)/h, respectively.
The simultaneous determination of nicotinamide and 3-cyanopyridine with the high performance liquid chromatographic method was described.The conditions of chromatography were as follows:Using column STR-ODSⅡ(4.6 mm×150 mm),mobile phase of methanol∶water=1∶3,flow rate of 1.000 mL·min-1,detection wavelength of 254 nm,column temperature of 30 ℃.The detection range of nicotinamide and 3-cyanopyridine were from 1.0 mg·L-1 to 40.0 mg·L-1.The detection limit of nicotinamide and 3-cyanopyridine was 0.25 mg·L-1,1.09 mg·L-1,respectively.The RSD(n=5) of nicotinamide and 3-cyanopyridine was 2.1%~3.8%,0.9%~3.1%,respectively.This method is rapid,accurate with high repreducibility.
It has been established that the direction of formylation of methyl propyl ketone depends on the reaction conditions. By condensation of the synthesized salts of 3-hydroxymethylene-2 pentanone with cyanothioacetamide, we have synthesized 6-methyl-3-cyano-5-ethylpyridine-2(1H)-thione and 6 propyl-3cyancpyridine-2(IH)-thione, respectively, which are alkylated regioselectively by halides ClCH2Z (Z = Alk, COOAlk, COPh, CONH2, CN) at the sulfur atom. These thiones and the derived 2-SCH2Z-3-cyanopyridines have been used in the regioselective synthesis of substituted annelated heterocycles: 3-aminothieno(2, 3b]pyridines and 4-aminopyridol[2′,3′:2,3]thieno[4,5-d]pyrimidines. 3′:2, 3]thieno[4, 5-d]pyrimidines.
Diadduct complexes of the mixed-valent form of diruthenium tetraacetate, [Ru-2(mu-O2CCH3)(4)L-2](PF6), with L = N-heterocyclic axial ligands quinuclidine (quin) (1), 4-methylpyridine (4-Mepy) (2), pyridine (py) (3), 4-cyanopyridine (4-CNpy) (4), 3-cyanopyridine (3-CNpy) (5) and 4-phenylpyridine (4-Phpy) (6) have been synthesized and all but 5 were characterized by X-ray crystallography to study the effect of the variation of the donor number (DN) of L on the Ru-Ru and Ru-L-ax bond lengths, the magnetic moment, the electronic spectral properties and the redox potential. When data from previous studies on O-donor adducts was also included a DN range of 18-61 could be established. Over this range the Ru-Ru bond length increases slightly from 2.265(1) to 2.2917(6) Angstrom as the donor number is increased from 18 (in [Ru-2(mu-O2CCH3)(4)(H2O)(2)](PF6)) to 61 in 1. UV - Vis measurements show a very slight increase in energy of the pi(Ru-O, Ru-2)-->pi*(Ru-2) transition, however, room temperature magnetic susceptibility measurements show no change in the magnetic moment over the same range of donor numbers. Electrochemical measurements in 1,2-dichloroethane of the Ru-2(4+/5+) redox couple show a decrease in the E-1/2 of 292 mV on going from complex 5 (weakest N-donor) to complex 1 (strongest N-donor). The E-1/2 range is over 400 mV when the unligated [Ru-2(mu-O2C(CH2)(6)CH3)(4)] complex is included (DN = 1 for dichloromethane). The variation of axial ligand base strength does not effect, the near-degeneracy of the (pi*delta*)(3) HOMO or the pi-->pi* energy gap, however, the actual (pi*delta*)(3) HOMO energy varies significantly and increases as the basicity of the axial ligand increases allowing selective tuning of the redox potential. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science S.A. All rights reserved.
Rhodococcus sp.CCZU10-1 has been isolated from soil samples with high nitrilase activity against 3-cyanopyridine using the enrichment culture technique.The preferred carbon sources,nitrogen sources,and inducer were glucose(10 g/L),a composite of peptone(10 g/L)and yeast extract(5 g/L),and e-caprolactam(2.0 mmol/L),respectively.The optimal reaction temperature and pH for 3-cyanopyridine-hydrolyzing activity were 30 ℃ and pH 7.0,respectively.Using fed-batch method,a total of 927 mmol/L nicotinic acid has been accumulated in the reaction mixture after the 10th feed.
Abstract Recently, targeting survivin proved to be an attractive strategy for developing anticancer agents. Survivin overexpression is highly correlated with cancer aggressiveness, recurrence and resistance to chemotherapeutic treatment and radiotherapy. Additionally, survivin is overexpressed selectively in most cancer types with a very little expression in completely differentiated cells, which encouraged us to design and synthesize a novel series of 3-cyanopyridine derivatives targeting survivin. The newly synthesized compounds were evaluated for their cytotoxic activities against three cancer cell lines; PC-3, HepG2 and MDA-MB-231. Compounds 4a, 4b, 5c and 6c showed significant cytotoxic activities that were more potent than the reference drug, 5-FU. Hence, these compounds were selected to be further studied regarding their apoptotic potential in PC-3 cells. Interestingly, they decreased the level of Bcl-2 by 1.9–3.8 folds and increased the level of Bax by 6.1–8.8 folds compared to the control. Moreover, they elevated the level of active caspase-3 by 7.1–8.5 folds in comparison to the control. In order to estimate the cytotoxicity level of these compounds in non-tumorigenic cells, WI38 cells were treated with these compounds. They showed high IC50 values (148.57–193.64 µM), indicating selective cytotoxicity to the tumor cells, and much less toxic effect to the normal ones. Additional studies on the mechanism of 4a, the most active compound, revealed that it induced cell cycle arrest at the G2/M phase in addition to an increase in the percentage of pre-G1 apoptotic cells. Furthermore, western blotting was carried out using different concentrations of 4a. Results showed that 4a markedly suppressed survivin expression in PC-3 cells and caused a decrease in the caspase-7/cleaved caspase-7 ratio and in Bcl-2/Bax ratio, in addition to an increase in the level of the cleaved PARP. Finally, docking study of the most active compound in the active site (dimerization site) of survivin was in agreement with the in vitro survivin inhibitory activity.
An efficient and convenient method was investigated for synthesis of 2-amino-3-cyanopyridine derivatives via a one-pot four-component reaction of various types of aldehydes, acetophenone, malononitrile, and ammonium acetate in the presence of 10 mg Cu@imineZCMNPs catalyst. The favorable products were achieved with high quantitative yields and easy isolation of products in short reaction times under solvent-free conditions. The prepared catalytic system was characterized by Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, energy dispersive X-ray, thermogravimetric analysis, X-ray diffraction, transmission electron microscopy, scanning electron microscopy and vibrating sample magnetometer. Due to the magnetic nature of the catalyst, it can be easily recovered by an external magnetic field and comfortable reused.
Abstract The action of the nitrilase from barley leaves on 26 nitriles has been studied. p -Hydroxy and p -amino benzonitriles and 3-cyanopyridine were shown chromatographically to yield the corresponding carboxylic acids, and conversion of α-naphthaleneacetonitrile to α-naphthaleneacetic acid was shown by bioassay. The enzyme is thus not highly specific. The moderate biological activity of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetonitrile in pea stems, which do not contain nitrilase, is shown, both from biochemical considerations and from comparative bioassay, to be probably due to relatively slow nonenzymatic hydrolysis. Hydrolysis rates for a series of substituted benzonitriles lead to the conclusion that electron-withdrawing ring substituents favor hydrolysis, electron-donating substituents retard it. The enzymatic hydrolysis more nearly resembles chemical hydrolysis with alkali rather than that with acid. Enzymatic hydrolysis of indole, pyridine and imidazole nitriles, as well as of 5 aliphatic nitriles, agrees in general with the above interpretation, and some of the exceptions are accounted for by steric hindrance. The reaction mechanism is considered to involve nucleophilic attack on the fractionally positive C atom of the nitrile, which remains enzyme-bound throughout. A scheme commencing with attack by an SH group of the enzyme is suggested.
Title compounds (V) are efficiently synthesized using a Pictet—Spengler reaction of key intermediate (III), which is obtained by condensation reaction of compound (I) with 3-cyanopyridine-2-thione (II) via Thorpe—Ziegler isomerization, and aromatic aldehydes (IV) under sulfamic acid catalysis in good yields.
A new regioselective method of synthesizing functionally substituted pyrido[2,3-d]uracils from 2,N-dicyanoacetamidine is proposed. 3-Cyanopyridinecyanoimidines and 4-amino-2-bromopyrido[2, 3-d]pyrimidine hydrobromides were obtained as intermediate compounds. The structures of the compounds obtained were established by data of elemental analysis, NMR, IR, and mass spectra.
Abstract The catalytic wet air oxidation (CWAO) of non-biodegradable industrial organic raffinate containing pyridine and its derivatives (β-picoline, 3-cyanopyridine) was carried out using MnOx/Al2O3 catalyst at atmospheric pressure. The catalyst was prepared using impregnation method and characterized using various techniques. The effect of metal loading, catalyst dosage, reaction temperature and operating pressure on degradation of industrial organic raffinate was studied and the results were interpreted in terms of COD removal. Experiments were conducted using spent catalyst to explore the reusability of catalyst. The metal leaching from the catalyst was studied by determining the metal content in the CWAO effluent. The effect of ceria as a promoter on biodegradability enhancement, catalyst recycling and metal leaching was studied. The biodegradability and toxicity tests confirmed the biodegradability enhancement and complete removal of toxicity of the CWAO effluent. The biological aerobic treatment of the CWAO effluent resulted in 98.36% COD removal.
Many naturally occurring and synthetic compounds bearing pyridine scaffold possess interesting biological properties. 1 In association with those, 2-amino-3-cyanopyridine derivatives have been identified as IKK-β inhibitors 2 along with its importance and utility as intermediates in preparing variety of heterocyclic compounds. 3 Consequently, the synthesis of 2-amino-3-cyanopyridine derivatives keeps on attracting much interest in organic chemistry. Various routes for the synthesis of 2-amino-3-cyanopyridine derivatives have been reported using two-component as well as three-component reactions. [4] [5] [6] [7] Tu and coworkers have reported a facile synthesis of 2-amino-3-cyanopyridine derivatives in a one-pot reaction using aromatic aldehyde, methyl ketone, malononitrile and ammonium acetate. 4 A literature survey shows that a number of pyridine derivatives have been synthesized using various aldehydes but not a single reference have been found where tetrazolo [1,5-a] quinoline-4-carbaldehyde is used. We wish to report herein this heterocyclic aldehyde which is biologically active [8] [9] [10] with a view to obtaining more active heterocyclic system containing two biologically active moieties quinoline [11] [12] [13] and pyridine 14, 15 together. The most suitable protocol for the synthesis of functionalized organic compounds would be a one-pot reaction due to the fact that the synthesis can be performed without the Hence, in the present investigation, we report an efficient one-pot multicomponent synthesis of 2-amino-3-cyanopyridine derivatives having tetrazoloquinoline nucleus which have also been recognized as promising new scaffold to endow good biological properties 17, 18 such as antiinflammatory and antimicrobial activity.
Pd-mediated construction of pyridine scaffold and subsequent Suzuki-based C—C coupling reaction in one pot has been accomplished for the synthesis of 4-biaryl substituted 2-amino-3-cyanopyridines via multicomponent reaction. The present multicomponent reaction is useful in structural elaboration of pyridine framework and also helpful in design and synthesis of novel and diverse analogs of complex heterocyclic compounds other than present reported molecules. Antibacterial activities of the synthesized compounds were systematically evaluated. The correlation between functional group variation and biological activities of the compounds has been evaluated against human pathogenic gram-positive and gram-negative bacterial strains.
PURPOSE: To economically obtain an aqueous nicotinaldehyde in high yield and high selectivity by catalytically reducing a 3-cyanopyridine under hydrogen in the presence of Raney-nickel under specified conditions. CONSTITUTION: An aqueous nicotinaldehyde is obtained by catalytically reducing a 3-cyanopyridine under hydrogen in the presence of Raney-nickel catalyst in a solvent (e.g. aqueous acetatic acid) at 10 to 30°C at a hydrogen pressure of 0.2 to 5 bar at pH3.5 to 7. The Raney-nickel catalyst used is 2 to 10 wt.% of cyanopyridine, the amount of the hydrogen used is to 110% of cyanopyridine and the amount of water existed is used excessively for cyanopyridine. A catalyst carrying an expensive rhodium is not required and the reaction is carried out under moderate conditions. The nicotinaldehyde is useful as a reagent for the synthesis of agricultural chemicals. COPYRIGHT: (C)1994,JPO
An interest in dual-acting antihypertensive agents, specifically those related to (S)-2-[3-(tert-butylamino)-2-hydroxypropoxy]-3-cyanopyridine (1), led us to probe the contribution of the side-chain amino substituent in this series. The ability of 1 and its various analogues to displace radiolabeled alpha 1 (WB-4101 and prazosin) and beta (dihydroalprenolol) adrenergic receptor ligands was assessed by receptor-binding techniques. Most of the compounds exhibited high beta-adrenoceptor binding affinities, but only the N-aralkylamino-substituted compounds showed high alpha 1-adrenoceptor affinities. Therefore, the vasodilation shown by 1 was not due to an interaction with the alpha 1 adrenoceptor. The aralkylamino analogues of 1 in spontaneously hypertensive rats and anesthetized dogs exhibited antihypertensive activity and alpha 1-adrenoceptor blocking properties. Unlike the preference shown by beta-adrenoceptors for S enantiomers in this oxymethylene class of beta blockers, the chirality at the secondary hydroxy center made only a minor contribution to the affinity for the alpha 1-adrenoceptor and even less of a contribution to the observed antihypertensive effects. This lack of chiral influence at the hydroxy center confirmed what had been previously observed in more limited studies with the isomers of both labetalol and medroxalol.
Two new beta-adrenoceptor blocking drugs with acute antihypertensive and positive inotropic effects are described: Compound A (2-[4-(3-tert.butylamino-2-hydroxypropoxy)phenyl]-4-trifluoromethylimidazole) and MK-761 (2-(3-tert.butylamine-2-hydroxypropoxy)-3-cyanopyridine hydrochloride). In SH rats both compounds, given orally, lowered arterial pressure and were more potent than hydralazine. The antihypertensive effect of compound A but not of MK-761 was antagonized by timolol. Both compounds had positive inotropic activity on cat heart papillary muscles; these effects were antagonized by timolol. The pretreatment of animals with reserpine greatly reduced the positive inotropic effect of MK-761 but not of compound A. The acute antihypertensive and positive inotropic effects of compound A are like to be at least partially due to stimulation of beta-adrenoceptors, e.g. intrinsic sympathomimetic activity. The effects of MK-761 on the same parameters appear to be mediated by different mechanisms.
The chlorine atom in 2-chloro-3-cyanopyridines is readily replaced by primary and secondary aliphatic amines and heterocyclic amines to give 2-aminopyridines. 2-Chloro-3-cyanopyridines react with hydrazine hydrate and sodium azide to give hydrazinopyridines, pyridopyrazoles, azidopyridines, and pyridotetrazoles.
4,6-Diaryl-3-cyanopyridine-2(1H)-thiones were synthesized in one step by the reaction of elemental sulfur, malononitrile, and 2-aryl-1-aroylethylenes in the presence of excess triethylamine. The products were used in one-pot syntheses of substituted thieno[2,3-b;4,5-b]dipyridines and pyrido[3",2":4,5]thieno[3,2-d]pyrimidines.
Abstract A series of 2-amino-3-cyanopyridines were obtained from aryl aldehydes, substituted acetophenones, malononitrile and ammonium acetate in good to excellent yields by proceeding through a simple, mild and efficient procedure utilizing N,N,N′,N′ -tetrabromobenzene-1,3-disulfonamide [TBBDA] and poly( N -bromo- N -ethylbenzene-1,3-disulfonamide) [PBBS] as catalysts.
A strain of Comamonas testosteroni JA1 known for its capacity to hydroxylate 3-cyanopyridine to 3-cyano-6-hydroxypyridine was found to be also capable to hydroxylate nicotinic acid at a higher rate. In the course of the induced cultivation the forming 6-hydroxynicotinic acid was degraded either slightly, in the presence of nicotinic acid in the medium, or faster, in the absence of nicotinic acid. In a combined process of hydroxylation of nicotinic acid by growing culture and hydroxylation of 3-cyanopyridine by resting cells of Comamonas testosteroni JA1, not only an additional amount of 50.38 g of solid 6-hydroxynicotinic acid was produced from 1 L of cultivation broth with a 99.97 % molar conversion yield, but also the yield of 3-cyano-6-hydroxypyridine produced was more than doubled. This can be compared to that of the resting cells from the induced cultivation broth where within 8 h an amount of 5.77 g of solid 3-cyano-6-hydroxypyridine was produced by resting cells from 1 L of the cultivation broth. This also was superior to 4.39 g/L of cultivation broth of resting cells reported in the literature.
A rapid and reliable high performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC) method for the simultaneous determination of heterocyclic compounds, namely nicotinic acid, nicotinamide, and 3-cyanopyridine, in industrial effluent is described. A Φ4.6 mm × 150 mm, 5 μm C-18 reversed phase stationery phase, and a methanol-acetonitrile-water tertiary mobile phase (20:20:60 v/v) were used for separation. The detection wavelength of a diode array (DAD) was set at 216 nm with a bandwidth of 16 nm. Phenol was used as an internal standard. The regression equations revealed a linear relationship between the concentration of the analytes injected and the peak area detected by DAD. The limits of detection (S/N = 3) ranged from 0.70 to 1.18 mg L−1, the recoveries ranged from 87% to 102% and the precision expressed as % RSD intra-day and inter-day varied from 0.9 to 3.9 and 1.2 to 5.6, respectively. This method is rapid, sensitive and suitable for the monitoring of nicotinic acid, nicotinamide, and 3-cyanopyridine in effluent of related pharmaceutical manufacturing plants.
Synthetic and kinetic studies of the reactions between [Fe(1–5-η-C6H7)(CO)3]+(1) and X-substituted pyridines (X = H, 2-Me, 3-Me, 4-Me, 4-Ph, 2-Cl, 3-CN, 2,5-Me2, 2,6-Me2, 3,5-Me2, or 2,4,6-Me3) in CH3CN provide the first quantitative information on the importance of basicity and steric properties in controlling amine nucleophilicity towards co-ordinated π-hydrocarbons. The products are pyridinium adducts of tricarbonyl(hexa-1,3-diene)iron. Similar pyridinium adduct formation occurs with the cations [Fe(1–5-η-2-MeOC6H6)(CO)3]+(2) and [Fe(1–5-η-C7H9)(CO)3][BF4](3). The general rate law rate =k1[Fe][amine] is observed, except for the equilibrium reaction of (1) with 3-cyanopyridine which gives rate =k1[Fe][amine]+k-1[Fe]. The rate trend C6H7 > 2-MeOC6H6 > C7H9 found with several pyridines and the low ΔH1‡ and large negative ΔS1‡ values are consistent with direct addition to the dienyl rings. For attack of non-sterically crowded pyridines on (1), a Bronsted plot of log k1versus pKa of the amine conjugate acid has a high slope α of 1.0, indicating a very marked dependence of rate on amine basicity. Successive blocking of the 2- and 6-positions of pyridine by methyl groups leads to marked non-additive steric retardation.
Sulfoxaflor, a sulfoximine insecticide, could efficiently control many insect pests of sap-feeding. Microbial degradation of sulfoxaflor and the enzymatic mechanism involved haven't been studied to date. A bacterial isolate JW2 that transforms sulfoxaflor to X11719474 was isolated, and was identified as Aminobacter sp. CGMCC 1.17253. Both the recombinant Escherichia coli strain harboring the Aminobacter sp. CGMCC 1.17253 nitrile hydratase (NHase) gene and the pure NHase acquired sulfoxaflor-degrading ability. Aminobacter sp. CGMCC 1.17253 NHase is a typical cobalt-containing NHase contents of subunit alpha, subunit beta and an accessary protein, and the three-dimensional homology model of NHase was built. Substrate specificity tests showed that NHase catalyzed the conversion of acetamiprid, thiacloprid, indolyl-3-acetonitrile, 3-cyanopyridine and benzonitrile into their corresponding amides, indicating its broad substrate specificity. This is the first report of pure bacteria degradation of sulfoxaflor residual in the environment and reveals the enzymatic mechanism mediated by Aminobacter sp. CGMCC 1.17253.
The reaction of 3-cyanopyridine-2(1H)-thiones with bromonitromethane in the presence of triethylamine results in 3-amino-2-nitrothieno[2,3-b]pyridines. The crystal and molecular structure of one of the reaction products was established by X-ray diffraction analysis.
The reaction of acetoacetanilides with arylmethylenecyanothioacetamides leads to 4-aryl-5-arylcarbamoyl-6-methyl-3-cyanopyridine-2(1H)-thiones, based on which we have obtained substituted 2-alkylthiopyridines and thieno[2,3-b]pyridines.
Fatma K. Abdel-Wadood, Maisa I. Abdel-Monem, Atiat M. Fahmy, and Ahmed A. Geies Chemistry Department, Faculty of Science, Assiut University, Assiut 71516, Egypt Reprint requests to Prof. Dr. Ahmed Geies. Fax: 0020882342708. E-mail: geies@aun.edu.eg Z. Naturforsch. 2008, 63b, 303 – 312; received August 19, 2007 A one-step synthesis of [1,6]naphthyridine-2(1H)-thione (3a), pyrano[3,4-b]pyridine-2(1H)thione (3b), thiopyrano[3,4-b]pyridine-2(1H)-thione (3c) and 6-oxoquinoline-2(1H)-thione (3d) through the reaction of benzylidene-cyanothioacetamide (1) with cyclic ketones 2a – d is described. The reaction of 3a – d with organyl chlorides yielded the 2-alkylthio-3-cyanopyridines 4a – p which upon refluxing in ethanolic sodium ethoxide afforded the thieno[2,3-b]pyridine derivatives 5a –n. Some of the synthesized compounds were screened for the activity against bacteria and fungi.
Abstract Complexes of [MM′(NCSe)4] (M=Co, Ni and M′=Zn, Cd, Hg) with certain ligands(L) viz. 3-cyanopyridine, 3-aminopyridine, nicotinamide and isonicotinic acid hydrazide have been synthesized and characterized. Their molar conductance, magnetic moment, infrared and electronic spectral studies indicate that these complexes are of three types: cationic-anionic viz. [ML6] (Zn(NCSe)4), monomeric bridged viz. [(L4)M(NCSe)2Cd(SeCN)2] and polymeric bridged viz. [dbnd](SeCN)2L2M(NCSe)2Hg(SeCN)2[dbnd]. The softness and hardness of M, M′, -N-(NCSe′) and -Se-(SeCN-) have also been calculated to derive certain conclusions.
A one-step synthesis of [1, 6] naphthyridine-2(1H)-thione (3a), pyrano [3,4-b]pyridine-2(1H)-thione (3b), thiopyrano [3,4-b]pyridine-2(1H)-thione (3c) and 6-oxoquinoline-2(1H)-thione (3d) through the reaction of benzylidene-cyanothioacetamide (1) with cyclic ketones 2a -d is described. The reaction of 3a -d with organyl chlorides yielded the 2-alkylthio-3-cyanopyridines 4a -p which upon refluxing in ethanolic sodium ethoxide afforded the thieno [2,3-b]pyridine derivatives 5a -n. Some of the synthesized compounds were screened for the activity against bacteria and fungi.
Abstract In this work, a simple approach was used to quantitative preparation of nicotinum methane sulfonate (1-methyl-2-(pyridin-3-yl)pyrrolidin-1-ium methanesulfonate (NMS)) from nicotine and methane sulfonic acid. NMS, as a novel, mild, efficient, economic, and task-specific ionic liquid (TSIL) with dual acid and base functional groups, has been characterized by NMR, FT-IR, acidity measurements, and elemental analysis. This protic ionic liquid shows excellent catalytic activity in one-pot synthesis of 2-amino-3-cyanopyridines in 78–98% from malononitrile, aromatic aldehydes, methyl ketones, and ammonium acetate under solvent-free conditions. NMS is a nature-based recyclable and reusable catalyst.
Microbial nitrilases have attracted increasing attention in nitrile hydrolysis for carboxylic acid production in recent years. A bacterium with nitrilase activity was isolated and identified as Pseudomonas putida CGMCC3830 based on its morphology, physiological and biochemical characteristics, as well as 16S rRNA gene sequence. The nitrilase production was optimized by varying culture conditions using the one-factor-at-a-time method and response surface methodology. Glycerol 13.54 g/L, tryptone 11.59 g/L, yeast extract 5.21 g/L, KH2PO4 1 g/L, NaCl 1 g/L, urea 1 g/L, initial pH 6.0 and culture temperature 30 degrees C were proved to be the optimal culture conditions. It resulted in the maximal nitrilase production of 36.12 U/mL from 2.02 U/mL. Investigations on substrate specificity demonstrate P. putida nitrilase preferentially hydrolyze aromatic nitriles. When applied in nicotinic acid synthesis, 2 mg/mL P. putida cells completely hydrolyzed 20.8 g/L 3-cyanopyridine into nicotinic acid in 90 min. The results indicated P. putida CGMCC3830 displayed potential for industrial production of nicotinic acid.
The title compound, C(12)H(8)N(4), was obtained by thermal treatment of 3-cyanopyridine in the presence of magnesium phthalocyanine as catalyst. The X-ray structure analysis, in direct contrast to molecular orbital calculations corresponding to the gas phase, shows the molecule to be non-planar in the solid state, with an interplanar angle between the pyridine and 1,3,8-triazanaphthalene rings of 13.33 (9) degrees. Molecules related to one another by cell translation, and positioned at intervals consistent with pi-pi intermolecular interactions, form stacks in the b direction.
Two series of vanadium-containing oxynitrides VMON (M=Al or Zr, 0.1<V/M<0.5) were characterized by a variety of methods, also under reaction conditions, and tested as catalysts for the ammoxidation of 3-picoline. Markedly higher space–time yields of 3-cyanopyridine have been obtained for both types of catalysts in comparison to the best-known mixed oxide catalysts, although selectivities were lower. VZrON catalysts are more active but less selective than VAlON, which might be due to higher V site agglomeration and higher mean V valence in working VZrON catalysts. The higher selectivity of VAlON catalysts results from the reversible incorporation of N in VNAl surface moieties, whereas this is widely suppressed in VZrON samples, in which the majority of N is incorporated within the bulk.
It is described in this article the simultaneous determination of nicotinic acid,nicotinamide and 3-cyanopyridine in industrial effluent from a nicotinamide manufacturing plant with high performance liquid chromatographic method. The limits of detection(S/N=3) ranged from 0.70 to 1.18 mg/L,the recoveries ranged from 87 % to 102 % and the precision expressed as % RSD varied from 0.9 to 3.9.This method is rapid,sensitive and suitable for the monitoring method.
A strain ofRhodococcus equi SHB-121 forming 3-cyanopyridine hydratase was screened from nitrile-polluted soil. The optimum conditions for the formation of 3-cyanopyridine hydratase by the strain SHB-121 have been studied. Under the optimum conditions, the specific activity of the enzyme reached 5.32 U/mg of dry cell, 95 times higher than that cultured in screening medium. In addition, the activity of coexistent amidase was very low.
A high-throughput screening method for nitrile-hydrolyzing enzyme was used based on a modified ferric hydroxamate spectrophotometry.Using 3-cyanopyridine as a sole nitrogen source,a nitrile-hydrolyzing strain was isolated from soil.It was identified as Rhodococcus sp.by 16S rDNA sequence analysis.Moreover,the optimum reaction temperature,pH and metal ion additive were 30 ℃,7.0 and Ca2+(0.1 mmol/L),respectively.After 36 h of biotransformation,the yield of nicotinic acid from the hydrolysis of 3-cyanopyridine(50 mmol/L) reached 93.5%.
Self-assembly of [Ag(CN)2]-, 3-cyanopyridine, and iron(II) gives triple interpenetration of three-dimensional spin crossover (SCO) networks with the NbO topology, which interact each other via argentophilic interactions. Superposition of the networks along the c-axis defines an infinite mosaic of trigonal and hexagonal cross-sectional tubes where water molecules are installed. The structural changes associated with the SCO tune the homoatomic interactions and induce an uncommon change of the lattice volume.
The synthesis of new 4- and 5-substituted-3-cyanopyridine nucleosides has been performed by reacting the silylated pyridines and penta-omicron-acetyl-alpha -D-glycopyranose in dichloroethane in the presence of SnCl4. The free nucleosides were tested for their potential activity against HIV and different types of tumor.
An alternative and environmentally caring way for the synthesis of novel 2-amino-3-cyanopyridine derivatives bearing 5-imidazopyrazole nucleus is reported by one-pot four-component cyclocondensation reaction of substituted 5-(1H-imidazol/4-methyl-1-yl)-3-methyl-1-phenyl-1H-pyrazole-4-carbaldehyde (3a-b), malononitrile (4), ammonium acetate (5) and aromatic (6a-f)/heterocyclic methyl ketones (7a-d) under ultrasonic irradiation. The newly synthesized compounds were evaluated for their in vitro antibacterial activity against a panel of pathogenic stains of bacteria and fungi, in vitro antitubercular activity against Mycobacterium tuberculosis H37Rv stain and in vitro antioxidant activity by ferric-reducing antioxidant power method. Compounds 8e, 8h, 8l, 9c, 9g and 9h exhibited excellent antibacterial activity and compounds 3a, 8k, 9a and 9bshowed moderate antituberculosis activity as compared with the first line drugs. Majority of the compounds showed excellent antioxidant activity. This approaches claimed to be an environment friendly protocol as it afforded numerous advantages i.e. excellent yields, cleaner reaction profile and shorter reaction time.
Nicotinic acid (3-pyridine carboxylic acid) is widely used in food, pharmaceutical, and biochemical industries. Compared to chemical methods, enzymatic conversion of 3-cyanopyridine is an advantageous alternative for the production of nicotinic acid. This study is aimed to intensify the recovery of nicotinic acid using reactive extraction with organophosphorus solvating extractants such as tri-n-octyl phosphine oxide (TOPO) and tri-n-butyl phosphate (TBP). The distribution of nicotinic acid between water and phosphorus-based solvents dissolved in various diluents and the comparison of extraction efficiency with pure diluents are studied at isothermal conditions. Pure diluents are not found to be good extracting agents and the maximum distribution coefficient (K D ) obtained with 1-octanol is 0.31. Experimental studies are carried out to investigate the effect of diluent, initial acid concentration, extractant type, and extractant composition on the degree of extraction. The maximum recovery of nicotinic acid is obtained by dissolving TOPO in MIBK at an initial nicotinic acid concentration of 0.10 kmol/m 3 . Solvation numbers and extraction equilibrium are also estimated with both TBP and TOPO.
Abstract The present work aims at development of facile method for immobilization of Rhodococcus rhodochrous ATCC BAA-870 nitrile hydratase (NHase) using poly(vinylalcohol) (PVA)/chitosan biocompatible complex and investigation of its potential application for biocatalytic production of amide from nitrile. The morphology, structure and properties of immobilized nitrile hydratase were characterized by FTIR, SEM, AFM, DSC–TGA and XRD. The morphological characterization indicates that the PVA/chitosan–GA cross-linked NHase forms porous structure with smooth and uniform surface. The biocatalyst preparation is thermally stable compared to its free counterpart when subjected to thermal degradation studies. The immobilized NHase exhibited greatly effective catalytic activity, thermal stability and increased tolerance to the varied pH conditions for nitrile hydration of 3-cyanopyridine. Furthermore, the operational stability of the biocatalyst was improved significantly by immobilization, and it retained good activity up to eight successive batches of reaction. Kinetic parameters of free and immobilized NHase were determined from Lineweaver–Burk plot.
The invention discloses a preparation process for 2-Chloronicotinic acid. In the prior art, the disadvantage is that the overdosed catalyzer is used and has a bad effect, the oxidation yields are very low; during the chlorination reaction, POCl3 can make chloro-substitutions on a plurality of positions of nicolinamide- N- oxido, which leads to that the chloro-substitution products on 2-position have low yields. In the invention, with the existence of acetyl pyruvic molybdenum, the 3-Pyridinecarbonitrile takes water as the solvent and is dripped in 20 to 30 percent of H2O2, and then is made a heat preservation to realize a full oxidation reaction; under the anhydrous reaction and with the positive pressure protection of nitrogen, the acquired nicolinamide- N- oxido is cooled between minus 10 and 10 DEG C to be diluted by the halohydrocarbon solvent, and then is dripped in the organic base, and is reacted with the chlorination reagent under the action of phenyl dichlorophosphate; the strong alkaline solution is used to make a dehydration reaction with the acquired 2-chloro-3-cyanopyridine. The invention takes the acetyl pyruvic molybdenum as the catalyzer and oxidizer, has high oxidation yields; adopts the organic base as the acid-binding agent, makes chloro-substitutions between the chlorination reagent and the nicolinamide- N- oxido, and has above 85 percent of chloro-substitution yields.
Abstract Highly oxygenated fullerenes, C 60 O n with 3 ≤ n ≤ 9, have been prepared by the Lewis base enhanced catalytic oxidation of C 60 with ReMeO 3 /H 2 O 2 . Pyridine, pyrazole, and 2,2′-bipyridine decrease the activity of the catalyst, while 3-cyanopyridine or 4-bromopyrazole show significant enhancements even at low base:MTO ratios. Increasing the catalyst:C 60 ratio increases the yield as well as shifting the product distribution to higher oxygenated products, in contrast, increasing the H 2 O 2 concentration or increasing the reaction temperature shifts the product distribution in the opposite manner. Epoxidation of single walled carbon nanotubes (SWNTs) is accomplished with ReMeO 3 /H 2 O 2 /4-bromopyrazole.
Treatment of piperidinium salts of dihydropyridinethiolates 3 with glycosyl bromides 4 in dry acetone provides a convenient and high yielding synthesis of 1,4-dihydro-3-cyanopyridine thioglycosides 5. The structures of 5 were confirmed by oxidation as well as by 1H NMR and 13C NMR spectral analysis.
The hydration of 3-cyanopyridine to nicotinamide in the presence of manganese dioxide catalyst has been investigated.Manganese dioxide catalyst prepared by redox method using KMnO4 had high activity and selectivity.In this study,the highest yield of this reaction reached 99.57%,almost without by-product nicotinic acid.The IR and X-ray diffraction indicated that the activity of this kind of catalysts was closely related with their crystal structures and the hydrated water of the MnO2 surface.
A simple, clean and environmentally benign route to the synthesis of 3-cyanopyridines is described via a one-pot multi-component reaction of 3,4-dimethoxyacetophenone, malonitrile or ethylcyanoacetate, aldehyde and ammonium acetate using heteropolyacids as heterogeneous and recyclable catalysts in very good yields.
Abstract The electron transfer quenching of excited singlet of pyrene by indole and 3-cyanopyridine, and a,h-dibenzanthracene by o-dicyanobenze was investigated in solvents of different polarity. The electron transfer nature of the quenching reaction in all the solvents was confirmed by the transient absorption spectra of the radical ions formed. Quenching rate constants were determined and their variation with the solvent was compared with the prediction of the current electron transfer theories. It was found that for aprotic solvents the trend may be explained by the semiclassical theory for non-adiabatic electron transfer if a dielectric continuum model is used for the solvent. In hydroxylic solvents the rate constants do not fall on the same correlation, probably due to specific effects not taken into account by the model.
Three new cadmium(II) complexes: [Cd(4-Clpy)2(NCS)2]n (1), [Cd(3-aldpy)(H2O)(N3)2]n (2) and [Cd(3-CNpy)(N3)2]n (3) (4Clpy ¼ 4-chloropyridine, 3-aldpy ¼ 3-aldehyde-pyridine, and 3-CNpy ¼ 3-cyanopyridine) have been synthesized and structurally characterized. The IR spectra of the complexes are measured and discussed. The single crystal X-ray diffraction revealed that the structure of 1 features l-1,3-thiocyanate bridges and 1D chains. It consists of alternate octahedrally coordinated Cd atoms. Both Cd(1) and Cd(2) are surrounded by pairs of 4-Clpy, S atoms and N atoms of two di-l-1,3 thiocyanato bridges in trans and cis arrangements, respectively. In complex 2 each octahedrally coordinated Cd binds two di-l-1,1 azide bridges in a zigzag 1D chain and the other two positions are occupied by O and N atoms from aqua and 3-aldpy molecules, respectively. Hydrogen bonds of the types O–H ��� O and O–H �� � N are formed between aqua molecules and end nitrogen atoms of the l-1,1 azide bridges generating 3D framework structure of 2. The structure of 3 consists of [Cd(N3)2]n chains in which each octahedrally coordinated Cd atom is linked by two di-l-1,1 azide bridges. These chains are cross-linked by l-N ; N 0 -3-CNpy bridges generating 2D systems for this complex.
Early studies revealed that R. rhodochrous J1 resting cells could catalyse the conversion of the aromatic nitriles benzonitrile, 2,6-difluorobenzonitrile, indoleacetonitrile, thiophenenitrile and furanenitrile to the corresponding amides [11] . A high-molecular-mass nitrile hydratase (H-NHase) was purified from this organism, and it is this enzyme that is responsible for the commercial production of acrylamide. Nagasawa et al. performed a broad comparative analysis of the H-NHase's substrate profile using 61 small nitrile compounds [26] . This confirmed that the enzyme preferred short unbranched aliphatic nitriles, particularly acetonitrile (maximum activity), chloroacetonitrile, acrylonitrile and propionitrile. It demonstrated only a small fraction of that activity (less than 5%) against n-valeronitrile (pentanenitrile) and n-capronitrile (hexanenitrile) and no activity against the branched isovaleronitrile (3-methylbutanenitrile). The enzyme has lower activity against aromatic compounds and demonstrated only 17% activity (compared to acetonitrile) against 3-cyanopyridine and 11% against benzonitrile, with substitutions of benzonitrile further reducing conversion.
A second nitrile hydratase was found to be expressed by the same organism. Although also a Co-NHase and with relatively similar structure to the L-NHase, the substrate preference differed. The purified cobalt nitrile hydratase (named low molecular mass nitrile hydratase; L-NHase) of R. rhodochrous J1 catalysed the conversion of the aliphatic nitriles chloroacetonitrile, n-butyronitrile, propionitrile, methacrylonitrile, acrylonitrile and crotononitrile. Wieser et al. reported that L-NHase also exhibited a preference for branched chain aliphatic compounds (isobutyronitrile and methacrylonitrile) and aromatic nitriles (benzonitrile, 2-cyanopyridine, 3-cyanopyridine, 4-cyanopyridine, 2-cyanopyrazine) that was magnitudes higher compared to the H-NHase, as measured by the catalytic kinetic parameter Vmax/Km [27] . The L-NHase also had high catalytic activity for 2-, 3-, and 4-aminobenzonitrile. This therefore makes the L-NHase more interesting to synthetic chemists than the H-NHase [28] .
Abstract. The X-ray induced magnetic phase transition of Cs 0.8 Co 1.3 [W(CN) 6 ](3-cyanopyridine) 1.9 2.1H 2 O has been observed using X-ray absorption near edge structure (XANES) and X-ray magnetic circular dichroism (XMCD). The Co K-and W L 2,3 -edge XANES measurements show that charge transfer between Co and W and spin crossover of Co were induced by X-ray irradiation. A conspicuous magnetic diachronic signal was observed at the Co and W edges in the Xray induced phase, and the XMCD signals of Co and W indicate that the magnetic moment of each magnetic ions is parallel to the applied magnetic field. Therefore, the magnetization of the X-ray induced phase of this material is deduced to be the ferromagnetism.
Seven new 3-cyanopyridine Cu4OBr n Cl(6−n)(3-CNpy)4 (n = 0–6) complexes were prepared and studied by infrared spectra, electronic spectra, and cyclic voltammetry. Infrared spectra revealed a distortion of the tetrahedral Cu4O core to C 2ν or C 3ν symmetries and a donor-acceptor vibrational coupling with the in-plane pyridine ring bending within the O-Cu-(pyridine ring)CN system involving the π-back bonding between Cu(II) atoms and 3-CNpy ligands. Bands of the electronic spectra and half-wave potentials of the complexes are consistent with the weak donor and strong acceptor behaviour of the 3-CNpy ligands. The results were compared with analogous complexes of pyridine, 3-substituted and 4-substituted pyridine ligands.
The kinetics of replacement of water in [Fe(CN)5(OH2)]3– with pyridine, 3-cyanopyridine, nicotinamide, 4-aminopyridine, and cyanide have been studied in ethylene glycol solvent containing 0.055 mol dm–3 water at 25 °C. The rate law obeyed is –d[Fe(CN)5(OH2)3–]/dt =k2′[Y][Fe(CN)5(OH2)3–]. With excess of entering ligand Y, koba(=k2′[Y]) is practically independent of water concentration. Values of ΔH‡ and ΔS‡ for the replacement of water by Y in the aqua-complex are almost identical for water and ethylene glycol solvents, supporting the assertion that Y replaces water in both solvents. These results strongly support Id the, mechanism and make the D mechanism very unlikely.
Preparation and application of novel and reusable magnetic nanoparticles with poly N,N-dimethylaniline-formaldehyde support as a heterogeneous basic catalyst have been described. The reported catalyst was characterized by Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, scanning electron microscopy, X-ray diffraction patterns, transmission electron microscopy, energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy, thermogravimetric analysis and vibrating sample magnetometry. The catalytic performance of this organic-inorganic hybrid nanomaterial has been studied for the green synthesis of 2-amino-3-cyanopyridine derivatives through one-pot four-component reactions. An eco-friendly method, short reaction time, high yield and easy work-up procedure are the advantages of this new methodology over earlier ones.
Rate constants for intramolecular electron transfer within the intervalence charge transfer (−1) states of the complexes [{Ru3O(OAc)6(L)(CO)}2(μ-pz)] (where L= 4-(dimethylamino)pyridine (1), pyridine (2), 3-cyanopyridine (3), or 4-cyanopyridine (4) and pz = pyrazine) were determined by coalescence of infrared (IR) vibrational spectral line shapes in seven solvents. The electron-transfer times (kET-1) show a strong correlation with solvent relaxation times determined in separate ultrafast time-resolved fluorescence experiments. The best comparison is found with the parameter t1e, which is ascribed to inertial solvent relaxation. The IR spectra of these mixed-valence complexes are thus a steady-state spectral probe of ultrafast, dynamic solvent relaxation processes which are otherwise only accessible using laser-pumped, ultrafast time-resolved measurements.
A concise total asymmetric synthesis of the tetrahydronaphthyridine alkaloid (-)-normalindine has been accomplished via the addition of a laterally metalated 4-methyl-3-cyanopyridine to a sulfinimine (N-sulfinyl imine) as the key step.
The reaction of Ag(3-cyanopyridine)NO3 with NaN3 in presence of water and ethanol affords an unprecedented 2D layered tetrazole coordination polymer, [mono(5-(3-pyridyl) tetrazolato)Ag], [(3-PTZ)Ag] (1), which is characterized by single crystal X-ray determination, IR and fluorescent spectrum. The local coordination geometry around the Ag ion can be best described as a slightly distorted tetrahedron. The fluorescent emission spectrum of 1 at the solid-state at room temperature shows that maximal emission peak occurs in 495 and 521 nm, respectively. Crystal data for 1, C6H4AgN5, triclinic, P1, a=0.626 08(10) nm, b=0.784 98(13) nm, c=0.805 84(12) nm, α=75.171(4)°, β=76.653(3)°, γ=68.332(3)°, V=0.351 67(10) nm3, Z=2. CCDC: 267340.
Brevibacterium sp. CCZU12-1 with high nitrilase activity could effectively hydrolyze benzoyl cyanide into benzoylformic acid. After the culture optimization, the preferred carbon sources, nitrogen sources, and inducer were glucose (10 g/L), a composite of peptone (10 g/L) plus yeast extract (2.5 g/L), and e-caprolactam (2.0 mM), respectively. After the reaction optimization, the optimum reaction temperature, reaction pH, organic cosolvent, and metal ion were 30 °C, 7.0, ethanol (2 %, v/v), and Ca2+ (0.1 mM), respectively. At biotransformation of 120-mM benzoyl cyanide for 24 h, the yield of benzoylformic acid reached 91.8 %. Moreover, the microbial nitrilase from Brevibacterium sp. CCZU12-1 could hydrolyze various nitriles, and it significantly exhibited high nitrilase activity against benzoyl cyanide, 3-cyanopyridine, and α-cyclohexyl-mandelonitrile.
Here we describe the synthesis and biological activity of novel amino-pyrazolopyridines with anti-NF-κB and pro-apoptotic potential. α-Methylene ketones were used as a starting point for synthesis of amino-pyrazolopyridine 3. The alkylidene malononitriles 1 were obtained by the Knoevenagel reaction of ketones with malononitriles. Vilsmeier-Haack reaction allowed direct access to 2-chloro-3-cyanopyridines 2. Those products, by refluxing with hydrazine hydrate, allowed cyclization to amino-pyrazolopyridines 3a-g, which were not previously described in the literature. Bioactivity results indicated that amino-pyrazolopyridines 3a, 3b and 3g induced apoptotic cell death in K562 cancer cells with an IC50 of 36.5 ± 3.9 μM, 27.6 ± 4.5 μM and 35.0 ± 2.3 μM, respectively, after 72 h. In addition, compounds 3a, 3b and 3g exerted NF-κB inhibition activity with an IC50 of 4.7 ± 1.6 μM, 6.9 ± 1.9 μM and 39.8 ± 3.9 μM, respectively, after 8 h in K562 cells activated with TNFα. Compounds 3b and 3g showed interesting differential toxicity as viability of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from healthy donors remained largely unaffected by this treatment.
Abstract An efficient method for the synthesis of novel pyrido[3″,2″:4′,5′]thieno[3′,2′:2,3]pyrido [4,5: d ][1,3]thiazolo[3,2- a ]pyrimidine-4-one derivatives ( 5 ) has been developed using a Pictet–Spengler reaction between 2-(3-aminothieno[2,3- b ]pyridin-2-yl)thiazolo[3,2- a ] pyrimidin-5-one ( 3 ), which could be obtained from the condensation of 7-(chloromethyl)-5 H -thiazolo[3,2- a ]pyrimidin-5-one ( 1 ) with 3-cyanopyridine-2-thione ( 2 ) via Thorpe–Ziegler isomerization, and aromatic aldehydes under NH 2 SO 3 H as catalysis in good yields.
A convenient synthesis of alkyl-substituted ethyl nicotinates 8 was devised, using 3-cyano-2(1H)-pyridones 4. These were converted to the corresponding 2-bromo-3-cyanopyridines 5 with boiling phosphorus tribromide. The resulting 5 were smoothly debrominated to 3-cyanopyridines 6 with zinc dust in boiling ethanolic acetic acid. The nitrile function was hydrolyzed in boiling 6N hydrochloric acid, and the resulting nicotinic acid hydrochlorides 7 esterified with refluxing triethyl orthoformate, to give the ethyl nicotinates 8. A modified formylation of 2-butanone led to the sodium salt of 2-methyl-3-oxobutanal (3a) of enhanced purity.
Abstract Trifluoroethanol (TFE) is found to be an efficient and recyclable medium in promoting one-pot, four-component coupling reactions of aldehydes, ketones, malononitrile, and ammonium acetate to afford the corresponding 2-amino-3-cyanopyridine derivatives in high yields. The solvent (TFE) can be readily separated from reaction products and recovered in excellent purity for direct reuse.
In the title 3-cyanopyridine derivative, C 21 H 19 N 3 O 4 , the 3cyano-substituted pyridine ring forms dihedral angles of 2.35 (5) and 41.60 (5) with the unsubstituted pyridine and 2,4,5-trimethoxy-substituted benzene rings, respectively. The dihedral angle between the unsubstituted pyridine and benzene rings is 39.84 (5) . The methoxy groups form C methyl -O-C-(C,N) torsion angles in the range 0.80 (15)-11.45 (15) . In the crystal, molecules related by 2 1 screw axes are linked by weak C-HÁ Á ÁN hydrogen bonds along [010]. In addition, weak C-HÁ Á Á interactions andstacking interactions between pyridine rings, with a centroid-centroid distance of 3.6448 (6) Å , are observed.
For the synthesis and applications of 3-cyanopyridine derivatives, see: Al-Jaber et al. (2012); Brandt et al. (2010); El-Sayed et al. (2011); Ji et al. (2007); Kim et al. (2005); Koner et al. (2012); Suwunwong et al. (2011); Zhou et al. (2006). For related structures, see: Chantrapromma et al. (2010); Suwunwong et al. (2012). For standard bond-length data, see: Allen et al. (1987).
We have determined seven low-temperature neutron diffraction structures with different O…N bond length and different proton location in the hydrogen bridge. In 3-cyanopyridine -pentachlorophenol adduct proton is located at oxygen atom, in 2,4,6-trimethylprirdinium 2,6-dichlo-4-nirtophenolate is shifted to nitrogen. Other complexes characterized by stronger and shorter hydrogen bonds show systematic proton moving along the bridge caused by the DpKa change. The hydrogen bond in 4-methylpyridine -pentachlorophenol complex is characterized by one of the shortest OHN hydrogen bond known so far. The structure of 3,4-dimethylpyridine -2,6-dichloro-4-nitrophenol adduct contains two symmetry independent adducts with significantly different geometries. The results are compared with earlier neutron diffraction studies of OHN hydrogen bonds. The change of hydrogen bond strength is reflected in the electron density of the complexes calculated using ab initio methods.
A convenient and facile four-component synthesis is described of 2-amino-3-cyanopyridine derivatives from readily available starting materials catalysed by doped nano-sized Cu2O on melamine–formald...
Abstract The reactions of palladium(II) chloride, PPh3 and heterocyclic-N/NS ligand in a mixture of CH3CN (5 ml) and CH3OH (5 ml) produced [PdCl2(PPh3)(L1)]·(CH3CN) (1) (L1 = ADMT = 3-amino-5,6-dimethyl-1,2,4-triazine), [PdCl2(PPh3)(L2)] (2) (L2 = 3-CNpy = 3-cyanopyridine), [PdCl(PPh3)(L3)]2·(CH3CN) (3), [PdCl(PPh3)2(HL3)]Cl (4) (HL3 = Hmbt = 2-mercaptobenzothiazole). The coordination geometry around the Pd atoms in these complexes is a distorted square plane. In 3, L3 acts as a bidentate ligand, bridging two metal centers, while in 4, HL3 appears as monodentate ligand with one nitrogen donor atom uncoordinated. Complexes 1–4 are characterized by IR, luminescence, NMR and single crystal X-ray diffraction analysis. All complexes exhibit luminescence in solid state at room temperature.
The conversion of carbon dioxide (CO2 ) and bicarbonate (HCO3- ) to each other is very important for living metabolism. Carbonic anhydrase (CA, E.C.4.2.1.1), a metalloenzyme familly, catalyzes the interconversion of these ions (CO2 and HCO3- ) and are very common in living organisms. In this study, a series of novel 2-amino-3-cyanopyridines supported with some functional groups was synthesized and tested as potential inhibition effects against both cytosolic human CA I and II isoenzymes (hCA I and II) using by Sepharose-4B-l-tyrosine-sulfanilamide affinity chromatography. The structural elucidations of novel 2-amino-3-cyanopyridines were achieved by NMR, IR, and elemental analyses. Ki values of the novel synthesized compounds were found in range of 2.84-112.44 μM against hCA I and 2.56-31.17 μM against hCA II isoenzyme. While compound 7d showed the best inhibition activity against hCA I (Ki : 2.84 μM), the compound 7b demonstrated the best inhibition profile against hCA II isoenzyme (Ki : 2.56 μM).
Ortholithiation of 4-cyanopyridine using 2,2,6,6-tetramethylpiperidide (LiTMP) and trapping the lithio intermediate with electrophiles represents an efficient and straightforward access to ortho-substituted-4-cyanopyridines. The cyano group can be used as an ortho-directing group and allows the preparation of 3-halogeno-4-cyanopyridines. Reactivity of 2- and 3-cyanopyridines is also investigated and seems to give similar results.
Ab initio and semiempirical CINDO/CI calculations of free ligands L and complexes cis-[Ru(bpy)2(L)Cl]+ [bpy = 2,2'-bipyridyl, L = pyridine, 3-cyanopyridine, 4-picoline, nicotinamide, isonicotinamide, 4-picoline, 4-aminopyridine, 4,4'-bipyridyl (bipy), trans-1,2-bis(4-pyridyl)ethene, 4,4'-azopyridine, pyrazine (pyz), and imidazole] were used to study the interrelation between the electronic structures of the ligands and the complexes in the ground and electronically excited states and to interpret the electronic absorption spectra of the complexes. The quantum yields for photosubstitution of a solvent molecule for a ligand L were measured; for L = pyz and bipy, photolysis quantum yields as a function of irradiation wave-length were studied. The possibility of population of ligand-field photoactive states from overlying charge-transfer states and the associative mechanism of ligand photosubstitution were discussed.
article i nfo The synthesis of three new zinc coordination polymers, (Zn(3-pttz)2(4,4'-bipy)) (1), (Zn(3-pttz)(TPA)(H2O)2) (2) and (Zn(3-pttz)(PMA)0.5 )( 3) (3-pttz=5-(3-pyridyl)tetrazolate, TPA=terephthalic acid and PMA= 1,2,4,5-Benzenetetracarboxylic acid), with sodium azide and 3-cyanopyridine via in situ hydrothermal method have been investigated. These three coordination polymers were successfully synthesized, and characterized by elemental analysis, Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy, thermal studies and single-crystal X-ray diffraction. The results indicate that in compound 1, the 3-pttz ligands adopt monodentate coordination mode while the 4,4'-bipy ligands bridge the Zn(II) ions to generate infiniteZn�4,4'-bipyZnchains, which fur- thermore through weak C-H···N hydrogen bonds to form a three-dimensional (3D) supermolecular structure. For compound 2, the Zn(II) ions are connected by 3-pttz ligands to form one-dimension (1D) �3-pttzZn� 3-pttzhelical chains, and the secondary ligands TPA adopt the terminal mode; the chains are assembled into a 3D supermolecular framework via hydrogen bonds. Compound 3 is a two-dimensional (2D) network constructed from self-assembly of Zn (II) ions and PMA ligands with the 3-pttz ligands by assuming the monodentate coordination mode, resulting in the formation of a 3D supermolecular framework via weak
The putative Co-type nitrile hydratase (NHaseK, consisting of α- and β-subunits) genes and the putative activator (17K) gene adjacent to the β subunit region were cloned from Klebsiella oxytoca KCTC 1686. 17K is essential for the functional expression of recombinant NHaseK in Escherichia coli; however, the expression level of 17K was very low when the 17K gene and NHaseK structural genes were expressed as a gene cluster in E. coli BL21(DE3). To improve the 17K expression level and NHaseK activity, the expression cassette was redesigned by placing the 17K gene and NHaseK structural genes under the control of different promoters in the pETDuet-1 expression vector, co-expressing the 17K gene with the gene cluster in a double plasmid or a single plasmid with a double promoter, and introducing an efficient Shine- Dalgarno sequence 5' to the17K gene. The specific activity of NHaseK was improved when 17K was co-expressed with the gene cluster, whereas the production of NHaseK protein decreased. The maximum activity was achieved when an efficient Shine-Dalgarno sequence was introduced 5' to the 17K gene: the expression level of 17K was significantly improved and the expression level of NHaseK did not decrease significantly. The maximum activity was about 63,480 ± 1915.6 U/L broth towards 3-Cyanopyridine. Recombinant NHaseK could hydrolyze a wide range of aliphatic, aromatic, and heterocyclic nitriles, and convert racemic nitriles to the corresponding S-amides, with E values ranging from 9 to 17. The enzyme had a temperature optimum of 35°C and exhibited remarkably stability below 35°C.
Abstract An efficient method for the synthesis of novel benzo[b]pyrido[3′,2′:4,5] thieno[2,3-e][1,6] naphthyridine-8-one derivatives has been developed using a Pictet–Spengler reaction between 4-(3-aminothieno[2,3-b]pyridin-2-yl)quinoline-2-ones, which could be obtained from the alkylation of 4-bromomethylquinoline-2-ones with 3-cyanopyridine-2-thione followed by a Thorpe–Ziegler isomerization, and aromatic aldehydes under p -TsOH as catalysis in good yields.
Two-dimensional cyanide-bridged copper(II) octacyanotungstates(V), [(Cu(3-CNpy)2(H2O))2(Cu(3-CNpy)2(H2O)2)(W(CN)8)2] (3-CNpy = 3-cyanopyridine) (1) and [(Cu(4-CNpy)2)2(Cu(4-CNpy)2(H2O)2)(W(CN)8)2] x 6H2O (4-CNpy = 4-cyanopyridine) (2), were prepared and these compounds exhibited metamagnetic behavior with Néel temperatures of 8.0 K (1) and 4.4 K (2).
Some organic fine chemicals have been developed by a combination of microbial and chemical processes. These combination processes make the production more simple, cost-effective, and environmentally friendly. The process of 6-chloro-3-aminomethylpyridine was established by incorporating the regioselective microbial hydroxylation of 3-cyanopyridine and the improved reduction of 6-chloro-3-cyanopyridine with modified Raney Nickel catalysts. Production of ethyl (R) -β-hydroxy-γ-cyanobutylate has been achieved via microbial asymmetric reduction of chloroacetoacetate. A novel method of 2-cyanopiperazine that includes a Michael addition of ethylenediamine to 2-chloroacrylonitrile, followed by an intramolecular cyclization, was found, and its application for the chiral piperazine derivatives via biotransformation is now under development.
3,5-di-tert-Butylcatecholate (DTBC) germanium complexes (DTBC)2Ge[Py(CN)n]2 (n = 0…2) have been synthesized from GeO2, 3,5-di-tert-butylcatechol and cyano-substituted pyridines Py(CN)n and characterized by elemental analysis, NMR, IR and UV-VIS spectroscopy. The structure of 1 (with 4-cyanopyridine) has been determined by X-ray single crystal analysis. UV-VIS spectra have shown that these complexes are stable in CH3CN, toluene and CH2Cl2 solutions; in contrast, they are rapidly decomposed by dimethylformamide and tetrahydrofuran. Complexes 1 and 2 (with 4-cyano and 3-cyanopyridine) are electrochemically reducible in toluene/1 M Bu4NPF6 at E = -1.3…-1.7 V vs. AgCl. The quantum-chemical study of these complexes is in accordance with the unsuccessful attempts to obtain analogous derivatives with 2-cyanopyridine and 2,6-dicyanopyridine.
Key intermediates in the process were 10-methyl- and 10-ethyl-4-amino-4-deoxy-5,10-dideazapteroic acid. Condensation of the piperidine enamines of branched 4-(p-carbomethoxyphenyl)butyraldehydes with (acetoxymethylene)malononitrile afforded 1,1-dicyano-4-piperidinobutadiene. Subsequent reaction with alcoholic ammonium hydroxide yielded the appropriately substituted 2-amino-3-cyanopyridines. Ring closure with guanidine gave 10-methyl- and 10-ethyl-4-amino-4-deoxy-5,10-dideazapteroic acids (I). Coupling with diethyl glutamate followed by ester hydrolysis afforded 10-alkyl-5,10-dideazaminopterin analogues. Hydrolysis of the 4-amino group of I yielded the 10-alkylpteroic acids, which were coupled with diethyl glutamate, hydrogenated over PtO 2 , and saponified to afford 10-alkyl-5,10-dideazatetrahydrofolic acids
A GC method for determination of 2-cyanopyridine in aqueous solution was developed. The column was filled with 5%PEG-20M+2%KOH, and 3-cyanopyridine was used as internal standard. The standard deviation is 0.006 , the recovery rate are 99.44%～101.28%. This method is proved to be rapid, accurate and practical.
The alkylation of 3-cyanopyridine-2(1 H )-thiones with 8-chloromethyl-3-methyl-7-(2-oxo-2-phenylethyl)- xanthene in a KOH–H 2 O–DMF system upon heating leads to the formation of pyrido-[3",2":4',5']thieno[3',2':5,6][1,4]diazepino[7,1- f ]purine-2,4(3 H ,6 H )-dione derivatives in good yields. Under milder conditions, the intermediates of the cascade reactions, namely, 2-({[3-methyl-2,6-dioxo-7-(2-oxo-2-phenylethyl)-2,3,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H -purin-8-yl]methyl}thio)pyridine-3-carbonitriles, can be isolated and characterized. Authors: V. V. Dotsenko, D. V. Sventukh, and S. G. Krivokolysko English Translation in Chemistry of Heterocyclic Compounds, 2012, 48 (9), pp 1397-1409 http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10593-012-1149-1
A PROCESS FOR PREPARING AQUEOUS MEANS FOR REDUCING nicotinaldehyde 3-cyanopyridine CATALYTIC LOW hydrogen in the presence Raney-nickel.
Abstract 1. 1. Nicotinamide deamidase from Micrococcus lysodeikticus was competitively inhibited by a large number of structural analogues of nicotinamide. 2. 2. Of 59 analogues tested, the most potent inhibitors, with inhibitor constants ( K i ) less than 10 −5 M, in decreasing order of potency, were: 3-pyridinecarboxaldehyde, nicotinic acid hydrazide, 4-aminonicotinamide, 3-cyanopyridine, 3-pyridylcarbinol, 3-aminomethylpyridine, and 3-pyridinealdoxime. Moderately active inhibitors ( K i between 10 −3 M and 10 −5 M), in decreasing order of potency included: thionicotinamide, 3-acetylpyridine, 5-methylnicotinamide, pyrazinamide, nicotinylhydroxamic acid, nipecotamide, 3-chloropyridine, 3-(3-pyridyl)-1-propanol, 3-pyridineacetonitrile, o -bromobenzamide, and isoniazid. 3. 3. The pyridine nitrogen and the carbonyl carbon of nicotinamide are involved in substrate-enzyme binding, and the enzyme exhibits steric hindrance in binding nicotinamide analogues with substituents at the 1-, 5-, and 6-positions of the pyridine ring.
Local structure of a photo- or x-ray-induced ferrimagnet Cs0.8Co1.3 [W(CN)8](3-cyanopyridine)1.9 x 2.1H2O was investigated by means of Co K- and W L-edge XAFS spectroscopy. The Co K-edge XANES spectra provide quantitative information on the ratio of Co(II) and Co(III) by virtue of the factor analysis. It was found that the Co(II) ratios are 81.9% at 300 K and 32.7% at 150 K. When the sample was irradiated by x rays at 30 K, a phase transformation occurred in a similar manner to the visible-light irradiation and a relaxed excited state that exhibits ferrimagnetism was formed. The relaxed excited state gives the Co(II) ratio of 67.0%. The W L(III)-edge EXAFS spectra determine the W-C, W-N and W-Co distances. The results of the distances were obtained as R(W-C)=2.16 A, R(W-N)=3.31 A, R(W-CoII)=5.37 A and R(W-CoIII)=5.19 A, irrespective of the three phases. The local structure of the relaxed excited state was found to be identical with that of the high-temperature (300 K) phase. The phase transformation is concluded to be caused by the charge transfer and the spin flipping from the -W(IV)(S=0)-CN-CoIII (S=0)- configuration to -W(V)(S=1/2)-CN-CoII (S=3/2)-.
Reduction of alkyl-2-amino-5,6-dialkyl-3-cyanopyridine-4-carboxylates with sodium borohydride in protic solvents gave rise to 4-amino-3-imino-6,7-dialkyl-1,3-dihydrofuro[3,4-c]pyridines that at hydrolysis in acid medium afforded the corresponding lactones.
1. ::: ::: Reaction of the sodium salt of 3-(1-adamantyl)-1-hydroxyprop-1-en-3-one with cyanoselenoacetamide led to the first synthesis of 6-(1-adamantyl)-3-cyanopyridine-2(1H)-selenone. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: 2-Seleno substituted 6-(1-adamantyl)-3-cyanopyridines have been obtained by alkylation of pyridineselenone with RCH2HA1. Cyclization in the presence of base gives 2-substituted 6-(1-adamanty1)-3-aminoselenopheno[2,3-b]pyridines. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: Under electron impact conditions 2-mercapto and 2-seleno substituted 6-(1-adamantyl)-3-cyanopyridines undergo cyclization to the corresponding substituted thieno- and selenophenopyridines. The sulfur-containing compounds do not show an ion peak corresponding to separation of the adamantyl and pyridyl rings, whereas such a process does occur in the case of the selenium analogs.
1 As a consequence many efficient procedures have been reported in the literature for the synthesis of functionalized pyridines. 2 Among these, 2-aminopyridines are promising substituted pyridines which have been shown to be biologically active molecules. 3 Additionally, because of their chelating abilities, 2-aminopyridines are commonly used as ligands in inorganic and organometallic chemistry. 4 Moreover 2-aminopyridines are also valuable synthetic precursor for the synthesis of fused nitrogen heterocycles 5 were as cyanopyridines with different alkyl and aryl groups were found to have antimicrobial, 6a antihypertensive, 6b cardiovascular, 6c antiinflammatory, analgesic, antipyretic properties 3e,6d as well as IKK-β inhibitor properties. 6e The preparation of the 2-amino-3-cyanopyridine derivatives has been reported in the literature from The same reaction was tried with different catalysts like tetrabutylammonium bromide (TBAB), benzyltriethylammonium chloride (TEBA), tributylbenzylammonium chloride, tetraethylammonium bromide and cetyltrimethylammonium chloride but none of these catalysts gave satisfactory results. Similar reaction conditions using toluene, 18-crown-6 and sodium azide, found to increase the reaction time by one to two hours.
Local structure of a photo-or x-ray-induced ferrimagnet Cs 0.8 Co 1.3 [W(CN) 8 ](3-cyanopyridine) 1.9 ⋅2.1H 2 O was investigated by means of Co K-and W L-edge XAFS spectroscopy. The Co K-edge XANES spectra provide quantitative information on the ratio of Co(II) and Co(III) by virtue of the factor analysis. It was found that the Co(II) ratios are 81.9% at 300 K and 32.7% at 150 K. When the sample was irradiated by x rays at 30 K, a phase transformation occurred in a similar manner to the visible-light irradiation and a relaxed excited state that exhibits ferrimagnetism was formed. The relaxed excited state gives the Co(II) ratio of 67.0%. The W L III -edge EXAFS spectra determine the W-C, W-N and W-Co distances. The results of the distances were obtained as R(W-C)=2.16 Å, R(W-N)=3.31 Å, R(W-Co II )=5.37 Å and R(W-Co III )=5.19 Å, irrespective of the three phases. The local structure of the relaxed excited state was found to be identical with that of the high-temperature (300 K) phase. The phase transformation is concluded to be caused by the charge transfer and the spin flipping from the -W IV (S=0)-CN-Co III (S=0)-configuration to -W V (S=1/2)-CN-Co II (S=3/2)-.
Very recently, Hashimoto et al. (2000) synthesized another type of materials that show photo-induced magnetization. The material Cs 0.8 Co 1.3 [W(CN) 8 ](3-cyanopyridine) 1.9 ⋅2.1H 2 O consists of W(CN) 8 complex anions which are linked with each other via Co ions. This shows the first-order transition at T c↓ =205 K and T c↑ =150 K with a large histeresis. Upon visible-light irradiation at low temperature, however, the HT phase is obtained as a metastable state, which exhibits ferrimagnetism. Since the sample is prepared only as a fine crystalline powder similar to other prussian-blue analogues, structure analysis by means of XAFS spectroscopy is essentially important to understand the mechanism of the photo-induced mag-netization.
We herein describe the modification of the experimental conditions for the synthesis of certain 2amino-4-aryl-3-cyanopyridines from benzaldehyde, malononitrile, ammonium acetate and aminoketones. The outcome of the reaction proved to be highly dependent on the experimental procedure, occasionally giving rise to metaphthalodinitriles. Mechanistical proposals are also reported, in order to explain the observed dependence on the procedure.
We herein describe the modification of the experimental conditions for the synthesis of certain 2-amino-4-aryl-3-cyanopyridines from benzaldehyde, malononitrile, ammonium acetate and aminoketones. The outcome of the reaction proved to be highly dependent on the experimental procedure, occasionally giving rise to metaphthalodinitriles. Mechanistical proposals are also reported, in order to explain the observed dependence on the procedure.
In the context of a current project developed in our laboratory for the synthesis of biologically active molecules, 2-amino-5,6,7,8-tetrahydro-1,6-naphthyridine-3-carbonitriles I ( Figure 1 ) were selected for study as well as 2-aminopyridine-and 2-chloropyridine-3,5-dicarbonitriles. Literature searching shows that very few reports on the preparation of this type of heterocyclic ring system have been published. Among the few examples, 2-amino-6-methyl-4-phenyl-5,6,7,8-tetrahydro-1,6-naphthyridine-3-carbonitrile 4 ( Figure 2 ) has recently been included in a patent dealing with compounds altering the lifespan of eukaryotic organisms. 2 Regarding 2-amino-6-benzyl-5,6,7,8-tetrahydro-1,6-naphthyridine-3-carbonitrile 5 and benzyl 2-amino-3-cyano-7,8-dihydro-1,6-naphthyridine-6(5H)-carboxylate 6, they have been used as intermediates in the synthesis of partially restricted linear, tricyclic 5-deaza antifolates. 3 Related tert-butyl 2-amino-4-phenyl-7,8-dihydropyrido [4,3-d] pyrimidine-6(5H)-carboxylate 7 has been described for the preparation of polysubstituted 2-aminopyrimidines. As a starting point, a protocol described for the synthesis of certain 2-amino-4-aryl-3-cyanopyridines was considered. 5 The attractiveness of this synthetic choice lies in the fact that it consists of a one pot procedure, involving the condensation of malononitrile with aromatic aldehydes and alkyl ketones in the presence of ammonium acetate. To the best of our knowledge, no N-substituted-4-piperidones have been tested under these conditions (Equation 1). Regarding our interest in obtaining 2-amino-4-phenyl-5,6,7,8-tetrahydro-1,6-naphthyridine-3-carbonitriles, we decided to study the scope of the above mentioned method. (1) Figure 3 shows the piperidones 8-10 selected as the carbonyl partners. Whereas 1-benzylpiperidin-4-one 8 is commercially available, 1-(prop-2-ynyl)piperidin-4-one 9 6 and tertbutyl 4-oxopiperidine-1-carboxylate 10 7 were synthesized from piperidin-4-one 11 (see Supporting Information). A preliminary trial carried out under the experimental conditions reported for other aminoketones 5 gave rise to the desired 2-amino-6-benzyl-4-phenyl-5,6,7,8-tetrahydro-1,6-naphthyridine-3-carbonitrile 1 (Figure 1 ) when mixing malononitrile, benzaldehyde, 8 and ammonium acetate, albeit in low chemical yield (21%). 8 With the aim of improving the yield, we decided to prepare 2-benzylidenemalononitrile 12 beforehand and add in situ piperidone 8; the isolated precipitate was then further treated with an AcONH4/ AcOH mixture.
Preformed or in-situ formed iminium salts are popular reagents for the introduction of a formyl group at electron-rich aromatics and other electron-donating reaction centers. H. Hartmann and coworkers (Dresden), however, present a case where the Vilsmeier reagent ([(Me 2 N) 2 C=CHCl] + Cl − ) does not induce the formylation of a 2-hydroxynaphthalene ring system but converts the hydroxy group into a leaving group, thus preparing the naphthalene moiety for a cyclization reaction to obtain fluorescent polycyclic azolo[1,2,4]triazinium salts. G. Kirsch and coworkers (Metz/France) have used the VilsmeierHaack-Arnold reaction to convert 2-alkylidenemalononitriles into 2-chloro-3-cyanopyridines which were subsequently transformed into (1,2,3-triazol-1-yl)-thieno[2,3-b]pyridines.
Cyanopyridines play a vital role owing to their range of biological and physiological activities. In the light of these biological activities and variety of industrial applications, some new of 6-Aryl-4-[4’-(p-chlorobenzyloxy)3’-methoxyphenyl]-2-methoxy-3-cyanopyridines (1a-l) & 6-Aryl-4-[4’-(p-chlorobenzyloxy)-3’methoxyphenyl]-2-ethoxy-3-cyanopyridine (2a-l) have been prepared, by the cyclocondensation of 1-Aryl-3[4’-(p-chlorobenzyloxy)-3’-methoxyphenyl]-propenones type (I) with malononitrile in presence of Sodiummethoxide & Sodiumethoxide. All the prepared compounds were characterized by their spectral (I.R., N.M.R. ,Mass) data and screened for their antimicrobial activities.
Abstract The crystals of 2- and 3-cyanopyridine isomers have been obtained by a sublimation method. The crystal structures of both isomers have been determined on the basis of low-temperature X-ray single crystal experiments and compared, also in relation to 4-cyanopyridine. In 2-cyanopyridine the nitrogen atom of the CN group, whereas in 3- the N-ring atom, is involved in the shortest intermolecular contact. In both cases, the hydrogen bond type interactions are rather of a weak nature, but they are important for developing of the polymeric chains.
Of the nine nitropyridinecarboxamides, which are isomers of 5-nitronicotinamide, a potent anticoccidial agent, 2-nitropyridine-3, -4, -5-, or 6-carboxamides and 3-nitropyridine-4- or 6-carboxamides were prepared from the corresponding acids via the esters of the acid chlorides. 3-Nitropyridine-2-carboxamide was obtained from 2-methyl-3-nitropyridine by oxidation with SeO2, oximation, dehydration with Ac2O, and hydrolysis with H2SO4. 4-Nitropyridine-2-carboxamide was prepared from 2-cyano-4-nitropyridine by hydrolysis, and the 3-carboxamide analogue was obtained from 4-amino-3-cyanopyridine by oxidation with H2O2 and fuming H2SO4. Of these compounds 2-nitro- and 3-nitro- but not 4-nitropyridinecarboxamides were found to be active against Eimeria tenella. N-Substituted analogues of 2-nitro- and 3-nitropyridine carboxamides were also prepared in a conventional manner and optimal anticoccidial activity was attained with 2-nitroisonicotinamide and its N-alkanoyl, N-aromatic, and N-heterocyclic acyl derivatives.
The intracellular cobalt-type nitrile hydratase was purified from the bacterium Rhodococcuserythropolis. The pure enzyme consisted of two subunits of 29 and 30 kDa. The molecular weight of the native enzyme was estimated to be 65 kDa. At 25 °C the enzyme had a half-life of 25 h. The Michaelis–Menten constants Km and vmax for the enzyme were 0.624 mM and 5.12 μmol/min/mg, respectively, using 3-cyanopyridine as the substrate. The enzyme-containing freely-suspended bacterial cells and the cells immobilized within alginate beads were evaluated for converting the various nitriles to amides. In a packed bed reactor, alginate beads (2 % alginate; 3 mm bead diameter) containing 200 mg/mL of cells, achieved a conversion of >90 % for benzonitrile and 4-cyanopyridine in 38 h (25 °C, pH 7.0) at a feed substrate concentration of 100 mM. The beads could be reused for up to six reaction cycles.
Abstract The intracellular cobalt-type nitrile hydratase was purified from the bacterium Rhodococcus erythropolis. The pure enzyme consisted of two subunits of 29 and 30 kDa. The molecular weight of the native enzyme was estimated to be 65 kDa. At 25°C the enzyme had a half-life of 25 h. The Michaelis-Menten constants K m and v max for the enzyme were 0.624 mM and 5.12 lmol/min/mg, respectively, using 3-cyanopyridine as the substrate. The enzyme-containing freely-suspended bacterial cells and the cells immobilized within alginate beads were evaluated for converting the various nitriles to amides. In a packed bed reactor, alginate beads (2 % alginate; 3 mm bead diameter) containing 200 mg/mL of cells, achieved a conversion of [90 % for benzonitrile and 4-cyanopyridine in 38 h (25°C, pH 7.0) at a feed substrate concentration of 100 mM. The beads could be reused for up to six reaction cycles.
This work is focused on the use of nitrile hydratase containing whole cells of the R. erythropolis MTCC 1526 as an immobilized biocatalyst for the transformation of various nitriles (3-cyanopyridine, 4-cyanopyridine, benzonitrile, pyrazinonitrile, isobutyronitrile) to amides.
Abstract Eleven new complexes have been synthetized between tetrahydrofuran diadduct of CoHg(SCN) 4 , with a variety of ligand molecules, 1.2 dimethoxyethane DME, tetramethylethylenediamine TMen, 2-amino-pyridine 2-NH 2 -py, 3-amino-pyridine 3-NH 2 -py, 3-cyanopyridine 3-CN-py, NN dimethylsulfoxide DMSO and hexamethylphosphoramide HMPA, three picolines (methylpyridines) 2-pic, 3-pic and 4-pic. The complexes obtained were of the type CoHg(SCN) 4 ·L, where L = DME TMen and 2-pic, CoHg (SCN) 4 ·2L where L = 3-pic, 2-NH 2 -py. 3-NH 2 -py, 3-CN-py, DMSO and HMPA, CoHg(SCN)·3L where L = 4-pic and CoHg (SCN) 4 ·4L where L = 4-NH 2 -py. The complexes are yellow to pink except for the HMPA one which is blue and in all the new complexes, Co(II) is octahedral except for the HMPA one, where it is tetrahedral.
A bacterium, Rhodococcus equi SHB-121 forming 3-cyanopyridine hydratase was screened from soil polluted by nitriles according to the biomass and the enzyme activity. Its activity was the highest among 200 nitrile-utilizing bacteria isolated. The optimum formation conditions for the 3-cyanopyridine hydratase of SHB-121 have been studied. Under the optimum conditions, 5.3u/mg dry cell weight of specific activity was produced, and the coexistent amidase activity was very low. The specific activity of strain SHB-121 was about 95 times higher than that in primitive screening medium.
4-Alkoxy-2-chloro-3-cyanopyridines, the key intermediates for the synthesis of the title compounds (V) and (IX), are obtained by nucleophilic substitution or Mitsunobu reactions.
Substituted di- and tetrahydro-3-cyanopyridine-2-thiolates, used in the synthesis of the corresponding 2-(thiazol-2-yl)acrylonitriles and partially hydrogenated 2-alkylthiopyridines, were obtained from thienylmethylenecyanothioacetamide and 2-acetoacetotoluidide in the presence of N-methylmorpholine or piperidine. Authors: S. G. Krivokolysko, V. D. Dyachenko, and V. P. Litvinov. English Translation in Chemistry of Heterocyclic Compounds , 1999, 35 (10), pp 1190-1195 http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/BF02323378
Abstract Surface complexes of β-picoline, 3-pyridine-carbaldehyde and nicotinic acid on 20 wt.% V 2 O 5 /TiO 2 catalysts containing 0.07 and 6.3l wt.% SO 4 2− were studied by FTIR spectroscopy and temperature programmed reaction technique. The water (both H 2 O and D 2 O), pyridine and β-picoline were used as molecular probes for identification of surface acidity and the structure of sulfate species. Both samples possess Lewis and Bronsted acidic sites. β-Picoline, 3-pyridine-carbaldehyde and nicotinic acid form surface complexes of similar structure on both studied catalysts. But high sulfated catalyst contains stronger Bronsted sites in greater amount. It leads to the formation of stronger bound surface complexes of β-picoline, 3-pyridine-carbaldehyde and nicotinic acid. The strongly bound surface complexes are transformed into by-products (CO x , pyridine and 3-cyanopyridine). It resulted in substantial reduction of nicotinic acid yield.
C9H7N3, M(r) = 157.2, monoclinic, P2(1)/c, a = 7.145 (8), b = 10.866 (5), c = 11.006 (6) angstrom, beta = 107.53 (6)-degrees, V = 814.8 angstrom 3, Z = 4, D(x) = 1.281 g cm-3, lambda(Mo K-alpha) = 0.71069 angstrom, mu = 0.76 cm-1, F(000) = 328, T = 293 K, R = 0.048 for 1023 observed reflections. The reaction of alpha,beta-unsaturated aldehydes with malononitrile is a synthetic method leading to 2-alkoxy-3-cyanopyridines. In this reaction a minor product is also obtained having an isophthalonitrilic structure. Thus, the title compound comes from the reaction between methacrolein and malononitrile. The X-ray determination confirms the chemical structure. The amino group evenly releases electronic charge towards both nitrile groups. Bond distances, as well as NMR and IR data, are in agreement with this assumption.
Abstract Coordination compounds between N,N,N′,N′-tetramethylethylenediamine, 3-cyanopyridine and dimethylsulfoxide as Lewis-bases and HgX 2 (where X = CN, SCN or Cl) as Lewis-acids have been prepared and characterized. The compounds have been examined spectrometrically in the infrared region 4000–200 cm −1 to establish the coordination sites and possible symmetries of the molecules. Assignments have been made for the Hg and Hg-ligand stretching vibrations.
Diverse substituted 4-di(tri)fluoromethyl-3-cyanopyridine-2(1H)-thiones were synthesized via the Claisen condensation of α-methyl(methylene)ketones with di(tri)fluoroacetate, followed by the immediate Thorpe−Guareschi reaction of the preformed di(tri)fluoromethyl-1,3-diketones with cyanothioacetamide. The procedure allows facile synthesis of the di(tri)flouromethylated pyridine-2(1H)-thiones in 50–95% yields, without the need for isolation and purification of intermediates. Resultant 4-di(tri)fluoromethyl-3-cyanopyridine-2(1H)-thiones were subsequently utilized in domino reactions to produce first various substituted thieno[2,3-b]pyridines and, then, thienopyridines polyannulated with pyridine, pyrimidine, benzodiazocine, diazepine, and pyran rings.
Nicotinic acid was produced through direct hydrolysis of 3-cyanopyridine by nitrilase 131,and no formation of nicotinamide was detected in the reaction mixture.The reaction conditions were optimized: optimal temperature for the hydrolysis reaction 30 ℃,pH=8.0,and initial substrate concentration 8-10 g/L.In these conditions,3-cyanopyridine was completely transformed into nicotinic acid using fed-batch method,the accumulation of nicotinic acid was 118 g/L,mass friction for the substrate to enzyme 50∶1,and the yield coefficient of sterling product was approximately 85%.
The kinetic and stability characteristics of crude extract nitrile hydratase fromBrevibacterium R-312 were studied for the hydration of 3-cyanopyridine to nicotinamide. The enzyme was substrate and product inhibited and had the following kinetic constants:K m =28 mM;K p =36 mM;K s =155 mM;V m =5.8 μ mol/min/mg protein (25°C). Itsmaximum temperature and pH (phosphate buffer) were 35°C and 8.0, respectively and it had half-lives of 50 days, 10 days and 1 day at 4°C, 10°C and 25°C, respectively. The crude extract also exhibited amidase activity on nicotinamide, but it became significant only at nicotinamide concentrations greater than 300 mM. Mathematical models for batch and fed-batch hydrations were developed to account for substrate and product inhibitions and for enzyme decay. They predicted to within 10% experimental results for initial substrate and final product concentrations up to 300 mM; the accuracies decreased at higher concentrations primarily because of the relatively rapid hydrolysis of nicotinamide.
The heteroannelation reaction of 3-cyanopyridine-2(1 H )-thiones with N -cyanochloroacetamidine leads consecutively to thieno[2,3- b ]pyridines and 2,4-diaminopyrido[3′,2′:4,5]thieno[3,2- d ]pyrimidines.
Pyrazole showed promising anticancer effects [16] [17] [18] [19] [20] [21] [22] . In search for better antitumor treatment, a large number of pyrazole derivatives were synthesized and tested over the years, the use of this powerful pharmacophore is very popular and modern [23] [24] [25] . On the other hand, pyridine derivatives have occupied a unique position in medicinal chemistry, besides many naturally occurring pyridines. Several synthetic derivatives show interesting biological activities for example, 2-amino-3-cyanopyridines have antibacterial, antimicrobial, antifungal and cardiotonic activities [26, 27] . In connection with these findings and our interest in the synthesis of fused nitrogen heterocyclic compounds with 1 H NMR spectra were recorded on Bruker AC 200F 300 MHz spectrometer using TMS as an internal reference. 13 C NMR spectra were measured on a Varian spectrophotometer at 300 MHz, using DMSO-d 6 or CDCl 3 as solvent. The Electron Impact mass spectra were obtained at 70 eV using Shimadzu QP-2010 Plus mass spectrometer. The reactions were monitored by thin-layer chromatography (TLC) on silica gel F254 aluminum sheets (Merck), and spots were visualized by UV lamp at 254-365 nm. All cell culture material was obtained from Cambrex Bio Science (Copenhagen, Denmark). All chemicals were from Sigma/ Aldrich, USA, except mentioned. Human breast adenocarcinoma cell line (MCF-7) and human hepatocarcinoma cell line (Hep-G2), were purchased from ATCC, USA 
BACKGROUND ::: Nitrilase is an important member of the nitrilase superfamiliy. It has attracted substantial interest from academia and industry for its function of converting nitriles directly into the corresponding carboxylic acids in recent years. Thus nitrilase has played a crucial role in production of commercial carboxylic acids in chemical industry and detoxification of nitrile-contaminated wastes. However, conventional studies mainly focused on the bacterial nitrilase and the potential of fungal nitrilase has been far from being fully explored. Research on fungal nitrilase gene expression will advance our understanding for its biological function of fungal nitrilase in nitrile hydrolysis. ::: ::: ::: METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS ::: A fungal nitrilase gene from Gibberella intermedia was cloned through reverse transcription-PCR. The open reading frame consisted of 963 bp and potentially encoded a protein of 320 amino acid residues with a theoretical molecular mass of 35.94 kDa. Furthermore, the catalytic triad (Glu-45, Lys-127, and Cys-162) was proposed and confirmed by site-directed mutagenesis. The encoding gene was expressed in Escherichia coli Rosetta-gami (DE3) and the recombinant protein with His(6)-tag was purified to electrophoretic homogeneity. The purified enzyme exhibited optimal activity at 45°C and pH 7.8. This nitrilase was specific towards aliphatic and aromatic nitriles. The kinetic parameters V(max) and K(m) for 3-cyanopyridine were determined to be 0.81 µmol/min·mg and 12.11 mM through Hanes-Woolf plot, respectively. 3-Cyanopyridine (100 mM) could be thoroughly hydrolyzed into nicotinic acid within 10 min using the recombinant strain with the release of about 3% nicotinamide and no substrate was detected. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE ::: In the present study, a fungal nitrilase was cloned from the cDNA sequence of G. intermedia and successfully expressed in E. coli Rosetta-gami (DE3). The recombinant strain displayed good 3-cyanopyridine degradation efficiency and wide substrate spectrum. This fungal nitrilase might be a potential candidate for industrial applications in carboxylic acids production.
2-Cyanopyridine proved to act as a powerful nitrilase inducer in Aspergillus niger K10, Fusarium solani O1, Fusarium oxysporum CCF 1414, Fusarium oxysporum CCF 483 and Penicillium multicolor CCF 2244. Valeronitrile also enhanced the nitrilase activity in most of the strains. The highest nitrilase activities were produced by fungi cultivated in a Czapek-Dox medium with both 2-cyanopyridine and valeronitrile. The specific nitrilase activities of these cultures were two to three orders of magnitude higher than those of cultures grown on other nitriles such as 3-cyanopyridine or 4-cyanopyridine.
The crystal structure of the title compound, [Cu 2 (C 2 Cl 3 O 2 ) 4 (C 6 H 4 N 2 ) 2 (H 2 O)].2CHCl 3 , was determined by single-crystal X-ray diffraction. Two Cu atoms, separated by a distance of 3.567 (2) A, are bridged by a water molecule and two trichloroacetate ions to form a local binuclear unit. The binuclear units are linked by 3-cyanopyridine molecules to form a two-dimensional network. The coordination geometry around Cu is tetragonally elongated octahedral. The spin-exchange interaction between the Cu atoms in the local binuclear unit is weakly antiferromagnetic
Abstract Binary vanadium–titanium oxide catalysts as well as pure V 2 O 5 and TiO 2 (anatase) were studied in microwave assisted vapor-phase oxidation of 3-picoline by oxygen in the presence of nitrogen and water vapors. The main product of the reaction over all catalysts was nicotinic acid. 3-pyridinecarbaldehyde, 3-cyanopyridine, and CO 2 were obtained at smaller amounts. The highest rate of the reaction calculated per square meter of the catalyst surface was observed over pure vanadium oxide. Decrease in vanadium oxide content in the binary catalysts led to decrease in the rate of 3-picoline conversion. Titanium dioxide (anatase) demonstrated the lowest activity. Much more energy was necessary to heat pure titanium oxide to the reaction temperature when compared to the pure vanadium oxide. The microwave heating effect can be located on the V 2 O 5 catalyst active component. Due to specific temperature distribution, the lattice oxygen in the microwave effective dielectric vanadium oxide becomes more mobile inducing the rate of 3-picoline oxidation to nicotinic acid. The data obtained under microwave heating were compared to the results produced over the same catalysts by applying classical conventional energy.
A family of 2-amino-3-cyanopyridine derivatives are synthesized from aldehydes, ketones, malononitrile, and ammonium acetate via one-pot reaction catalyzed by ytterbium perfluorooctanoate [Yb(PFO)3]. This procedure tolerates most of substrates and has the advantages of short routine, high yields, and environmentally friendly. Furthermore, the possible mechanism is also proposed.
The characteristics of the new nitrilase-producing strain Rhodobacter sphaeroides LHS-305 were investigated. By investigating several parameters influencing nitrilase production, the specific cell activity was ultimately increased from 24.5 to 75.0 μmol g−1 min−1, and hereinto, the choice of inducer proved the most important factor. The aromatic nitriles (such as 3-cyanopyridine and benzonitrile) were found to be the most favorable substrates of the nitrilase by analyzing the substrate spectrum. It was speculated that the unsaturated carbon atom attached to the cyano group was crucial for this type of nitrilase. The value of apparent Km, substrate inhibition constant, and product inhibition constant of the nitrilase against 3-cyanopyridine were 4.5 × 10−2, 29.2, and 8.6 × 10−3 mol L−1, respectively. When applied in nicotinic acid preparation, the nitrilase is able to hydrolyze 200 mmol L−1 3-cyanopyridine with 93% conversion rate in 13 h by 6.1 g L−1 cells (dry cell weight).
The preparation of bis(3-cyanopyridine)(octaethylporphinato)iron(III) perchlorate is described. The molecular structure has been determined by an X-ray crystal structure determination. The centrosymmetric complex has coplanar axial pyridine ligands that are close to eclipsing an FeN p bond (φ=4°).The average equatorial bond distance is 2.012(3) A. The axial Fe-N(Py) bond distance is 2.269(6) A. The complex has been further characterized by EPR and Mossbauer spectroscopy and temperature dependent magnetic susceptibility measurements between 1.8 and 300 K. The complex has an axial EPR spectrum with g ⊥ =4.28 and g∥=1.97. The Mossbauer spectrum in zero field at 77 K has an isomer shift of 0.38 mm/s and a quadrupole split doublet of 2.61 mm/s. The Mossbauer has also been studied in an applied magnetic field (6 T) at 4.2 K and fitted with a crystal field model. The structure and spin state of this compound serve to emphasize an emerging pattern in the relationship of axial ligand orientation (φ angles) and sopin state. Crystal data: [Fe(OEP)(3-CNPy) 2 ]ClO 4 ·3CHCl 3 : a =10.463(7), b =24.805(26), c = 11.661(4) A, and β= 109.60(6)°, monoclinic, space group P2 1 /m, V =2851.0 A3, Z =2, observed data = 3118, R 1 =0.099, R 2 =0.102.
The kinetics of the catalytic transformation of 3-picoline to 3-cyanopyridine by nitric oxide (NO) have been investigated over nickel oxide-aluminium oxide catalyst (2NiO·Al2O3) in a differential flow reactor between 300 and 360°C. A maximum yield of 98% was achieved with a catalyst having a Ni: Al atomic ratio of 1:1 and preheated in the presence of air at 600°C for 24 h. The rate equation Rn = kpknPpPn/(kpPp + knPn) deduced, assuming a steady state involving a two-stage irreversible oxidation-reduction process, represented the data most satisfactorily for conversion of 3-picoline to nicotinonitrile. A tentative mechanism for the reaction is proposed.
Abstract A series of organonitrile complexes of pentacyanoferrate(II) have been prepared in aqueous solution by the reacion of Fe(CN) 5 OH 3− 2 with the appropriate nitrile. The complexes exhibit a metal to ligand charge transfer absorption at 341 (benzonitrile), 413 (1,2-dicyanobenzene), 381 (1,3-dicyanobenzene) and 419 nm (1,4-dicyanobenzene). The rate constants for the formation of these complexes at 25° and ionic strength 0.10 M (lithium perchlorate) are (same order as above); 270, 453, 638 and 410 M −1 sec −1 . The rate constants for the dissociation under the same conditions are: 0.115, 0.0812, 0.0786 and 0.0663 sec −1 . The reactions of Fe(CN) 5 OH 3− 2 with 2-, 3-, and 4- cyanopyridine proceed in two stages. The first corresponds to the formation of a mixture of pyridine-bound and nitrile-bound linkage isomers, and the second to the linkage isomerization of the unstable isomer. For 3- and 4-cyanopyridine, the unstable isomers are nitrile-bond, but for 2-cyanopyridine, because of the steric hindrance between the nitrile group in thte 2-position and the cis cyanide groups attached to the iron, the unstable isomer is pyridine-bound. The metal to ligand charge transfer bands of the nitrile-bound isomers are at 387, 370 and 405 nm for 2-, 3-, and 4-cyanopyridine, respectively. The bands for the pyridine bound isomers are at 470, 414 and 477 nm. The rate constants for the formation and the dissociation of the nitrile bound isomers are: 365-441 M −1 sec −1 and 9.3 × 10 −2 sec −1 (2-cyanopyridine); 223 M −1 sec −1 and 0.117 sec −1 (3-cyanopyridine); 235 M −1 sec −1 and 9.7 × 10 −2 sec −1 (4-cyanopyridine). The rate constants for the pyridine bound isomers are, in the same order: 155-231 M −1 sec −1 and 1.18 sec −1 ; 413 M −1 sec −1 and 2.80 × 10 −3 sec −1 ; 383 M −1 sec −1 and 1.02 × 10 −3 sec −1 . The rate and equilibrium data for the dissociation of these complexes exhibit a linear free energy relationship of slope 0.98, indicating a dissociative mechanism. An intramolecular pathway for linkage isomerization is absent in the 4-cyanopyridine systems and makes, at most, an 18% contribution in the 2-cyanopyridine system.
A series of 2-hydroxy-, 2-chloro-, and 2-(2-hydroxyethylamino)-6-aryl-4-polyfluoroalkyl-3-cyanopyridines has been synthesized. The latter react with phosphorus oxychloride to give fluorine containing 2,3-dihydroimidazo[1,2-a]pyridines.
Abstract The electrochemical reduction of 3-cyanopyridine, 1 , and 2,6-dicyanopyridine, 2 , has been studied in N , N -dimethylformamide. Each compound undergoes a one-electron reduction to form the corresponding anion radical and the anion radicals dimerize to form σ-dimer dianions that are oxidized at potentials considerably less negative than the original reduction process. At 298 K the dimerization rate constants are 4.1 × 10 4 and 6.45 × 10 4 M −1 s −1 (3.7 × 10 4 M −1 s −1 in drier solvent) for 1 and 2 respectively. For both 1 and 2 , the dimerization is completely irreversible at 298 K but for 2 reversibility begins to appear at slow scan rates at higher temperatures as evidenced by the growth of an anodic peak due to oxidation of the anion radicals to the original neutral 2 .
An efficient and convenient method was developed for synthesis of 2-amino-3-cyanopyridine derivatives via the four-component coupling reaction between ketone, aldehyde, malononitrile, and ammonium acetate in the presence of 2 mol% copper nanoparticles on charcoal (Cu/C) catalyst. A variety of ketones and aldehydes was used to afford the corresponding products in good to excellent yields. The method is applicable to large-scale operation without any problem. The catalyst could be quantitatively recovered from the reaction mixture by simple filtration and reused at least eight times with almost consistent activity.
Two novel NAMI-A derivatives containing pyridine: G26b and G94a (trans-[Ru(III)Cl4(DMSO)(CNpy)]Na.2 DMSO,CNpy = 3-cyanopyridine, G26b; CNpy = 4-cyanopyridine,G94a) ( Fig. 1) have been designed and synthesized in our institute recently. In this study, using cultured cancer cells in vitro and tumor-bearing mice in vivo, we studied their anticancer activities. It was found that these two complexes had more effective antimetastatic effect than NAMI-A. They significantly reduced the occurrence and development of lung metastases in mice bearing the 4T1 mammary carcinoma. In vitro, these two NAMI-A pyridine derivatives also displayed significant suppressive effect on invasion and migration. Our study has demonstrated that these novel complexes, especially G26b, are more promising than NAMI-A as antimetastatic agents.
The microbial nitrilases have been shown to form homo-oligomeric spirals using a combination of negative stain electron microscopy and the docking of homology models Thuku et al., 2007; Woodward et al., 2008; Dent et al., 2008; Vejvoda et al., 2008) . The best characterized enzyme is the nitrilase from Rhodococcus rhodochrous J1 which is capable of converting acrylonitrile and 3-cyanopyridine to acrylic acid and nicotinic acid, respectively (Kobayashi et al., 1988 , Mathew et al., 1988 . This enzyme exists as an inactive dimer which oligomerizes to form active spirals in the presence of benzonitrile or an autolytic cleavage of the C-terminus (Nagasawa et al., 2000 , Thuku et al, 2007 . This phenomenon has most frequently been described in those nitrilases arising from the genus Rhodococcus (Harper, 1977b (Harper, , 1985 Hoyle et al., 1988; Stevenson et al., 1992) . The monomer association occurs via two interfaces, namely the 'A' and 'C' surfaces and forms a one-start, left-handed spiral . The modification of residues within these surfaces inactivates the enzyme and possibly suggests that a link exists between oligomerization at these surfaces and the active site . In order to fully understand the spiral structures, it is therefore necessary to characterize these interfaces and their mechanism of activation. In this review, we describe the structural insights we have gained from studying the nitrilase from Rhodococcus rhodochrous J1 and other closely related enzymes, namely the cyanide dihydratases, the cyanide hydratases and an amidase. We also incorporate structural insights from other nitrilase homologues whose structures have been determined at atomic resolution.
An efficient and convenient method was developed for synthesis of 2-amino-3-cyanopyridine derivatives via the four-component coupling reaction between ketone, aldehyde, malononitrile, and ammonium acetate in the presence of 2 mol% copper nanoparticles on charcoal (Cu/C) catalyst. A variety of ketones and aldehydes was used to afford the corresponding products in good to excellent yields. The method is applicable to large-scale operation without any problem. The catalyst could be quantitatively recovered from the reaction mixture by simple filtration and reused at least eight times with almost consistent activity.
Pyridine moieties are common substructures in numerous natural products, pharmaceuticals, and functional materials. [1] [2] [3] Polysubstituted pyridines possess important biological and pharmacological activities and could be used as potential agrochemicals, for example as herbicides. 4 In addition, the molecules containing pyridine moiety are used as non linear optical materials, 5 electrical materials, 6 and chelating agents in metal ligand chemistry. 7 Among them, 2-amino-3-cyanopyridines are known as IKK-β-inhibitors. 8 They have been identified to possess multiple biological activities such as antimicrobial, 9 antiviral, 10 antibacterial, 11 antifungal, 12 antitumor, 13 anti-inflammatory, 14 as well as antihypertensive 15 properties. Besides, they are important and useful intermediates in preparing a variety of heterocyclic compounds.
12, 16 The interesting biological properties of these compounds have promoted a great deal of research effort toward development of new synthetic methodologies for the preparation of 2-amino-3-cyanopyridines and their derivatives. Therefore, the synthesis of 2-amino-3-cyanopyridine derivatives continues to attract much interest in organic chemistry.
A survey of the literature shows that the major synthetic approaches that are used to prepare various types of 2-amino-3-cyanopyridine derivatives involve utilization of corresponding 2-chloro derivatives as substrates, 17 chalcones on treatment with ammonium acetate via the condensation reaction, 18 as well as via a one pot four components reaction 19, 20 in conventional heating or under microwave irradiation, and also by some other methods. 21, 22 In recent efforts to develop more facile methods for the synthesis of 2-amino-3-cyanopyridines, metal-catalyzed reactions have been developed. 19 In recent years, the use of heterogeneous catalysts has received considerable interest in organic synthesis. Using heterogeneous catalysts in synthetic organic routes has some advantages over their counterparts, such as great durability toward the reaction conditions, having highly active sites, recyclability and reusability of catalyst. 23 Recently, we have reported copper nanoparticles on charcoal (Cu/C) as an excellent heterogeneous catalyst for synthesis of triazole, propargylamine and benzimidazole derivatives. [24] [25] [26] Based on the above mentioned reports and in continuation of our efforts to develop facile and general methods for the preparation of 2-amino-3-cyanopyridine derivatives, and as a part of our studies to utilize heterogeneous catalyst for the synthesis of organic compounds, [27] [28] [29] [30] [31] here we wish to report a heterogeneous catalyst system based on Cu/C and illustrate its application for the synthesis of 2-amino-3-cyanopyridine derivatives without any cocatalyst or activator under mild conditions. recorded on a Bruker Avance DPX-250 spectrometer ( 1 H NMR at 250 MHz and 13 C NMR at 62.5 MHz) in pure deuterated solvents with tetramethylsilane (TMS) as an internal standard. Infrared (IR) spectra were obtained using a Shimadzu FTIR 8300 spectrophotometer. Mass spectra were determined on a Shimadzu GCMS-QP 1000 EX instrument at 70 or 20 eV. Elemental analyses were performed with a Thermo Finnigan CHNS-O 1112 series analyzer. Melting points were determined in open capillary tubes in a Büchi 535 circulating oil melting point apparatus. The purity determination of the substrates and reaction monitoring were accomplished by thin-layer chromatography (TLC) on silica gel PolyGram SILG/ UV 254 plates. Column chromatography was carried out on short columns of silica gel 60 (70-230 mesh) in glass columns (2-3 cm diameter) using 15-30 g of silica gel per g crude mixture. Chemical materials were purchased from Fluka, Aldrich and Merck. The used activated carbon was also purchased from Merck (Art. No. 9631, 0.3-0.05 mm).
Several series of 3-phenylsydnone derivatives conjugated to well-known moieties with antibacterial activity were synthesized via several routes. These derivatives include 3-cyano-2-oxopyridine, 2-amino-3-cyanopyridine, 2-arylidene-1-ethylidenehydrazine and 2-aroyl-1-ethylidenehydrazine moieties. Thus, the key intermediate 3-(4-acetylphenyl)sydnone (3) was allowed to react with the appropriate aldehyde, ethyl cyanoacetate or malononitrile in presence of excess ammonium acetate in two steps (method 1) or through a one-pot reaction technique (methods 2 and 3) to give the corresponding sydnone derivatives 5 and 6, respectively. Moreover, condensation of compound 3 with hydrazine hydrate followed by the reaction with the appropriate aldehyde, mono- and dicarboxylic acid hydrazide yielded the corresponding sydnone derivatives 8, 9 and 10, respectively. Most of the synthesized compounds were screened for their in vitro antibacterial activity against various pathogenic organisms of both Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria. The minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs) were determined using agar dilution method.
Substituted 5-aminopyrido[3′,2′:4,5]thieno[3,2-c]isoquinolines were synthesized by condensation of substituted 3-cyanopyridine-2(1H)-thiones with 2-(chloromethyl)benzamide and subsequent treatment of the condensation products with potassium tert-butoxide. Oxidation of the condensation products to sulfoxides and sulfones followed by treatment of these compounds with potassium tert-butoxide gives substituted 5-aminopyrido[3′,2′:4,5]thieno[3,2-c]isoquinoline 11-oxides and substituted 5-aminopyrido[3′,2′:4,5]thieno[3,2-c]isoquinoline 11,11-dioxides in good yields.
The coordination polymers [MIICl2(3-CNpy)2]n, with 3-CNpy = 3-cyanopyridine and MII = Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Zn (1a–6a), were synthesised and the related structures determined by X-ray powder diffraction (XRPD). In 1a–5a the metal atoms are octahedrally coordinated by four chlorine atoms and two 3-CNpy ligands. The Cl atoms are bridging two M atoms, leading to infinite [MIICl2]n chains. The 3-CNpy molecules coordinate through their pyridine N atoms (Npy) and form lateral “wings” on the chains. Upon heating to 230–290 °C, compounds 1a–5a release half of the organic ligands and transform into [MIICl2(3-CNpy)1]n (1b–5b). The crystal structures of 1b and 3b–5b were also determined from X-ray powder data. Compounds 1b and 3b–5b are built up by double chains of [M2IICl4]n units. Each metal atom is coordinated by two μ2- and three μ3-bridging chlorine atoms and one 3-CNpy ligand. In none of the investigated compounds does the 3-CNpy molecule act as a bridging ligand, which is in contrast to [MIIBr2(3-CNpy)1]n. The compound [ZnIICl2(3-CNpy)2] shows two polymorphic forms (α-6a and β-6a). In both polymorphs, the Zn atoms are tetrahedrally coordinated by two chlorine atoms and two 3-CNpy ligands to form discrete complexes. Upon heating to 290 °C, α-6a and β-6a decompose into ZnCl2 and 3-CNpy without forming intermediate phases. In all compounds, the coordination mode of the 3-CNpy ligand was investigated by IR spectroscopy.
Abstract Three different heterocyclic amine additives, pyridine, 3-cyanopyridine and pyrazole are compared in the methyltrioxorhenium (MTO) catalyzed epoxidation of olefins using aqueous hydrogen peroxide.
In this study, a novel nitrilase gene from Rhodobacter sphaeroides was cloned and overexpressed in Escherichia coli. The open reading frame of the nitrilase gene includes 969 base pairs, which encodes a putative polypeptide of 322 amino acid residues. The molecular weight of the purified native nitrilase was about 560 kDa determined by size exclusion chromatography. This nitrilase showed one single band on SDS-PAGE with a molecular weight of 40 kDa. This suggested that the native nitrilase consisted of 14 subunits with identical size. The optimal pH and temperature of the purified enzyme were 7.0 and 40 °C, respectively. The kinetic parameters V max and K m toward 3-cyanopyridine were 77.5 μmol min(-1) mg(-1) and 73.1 mmol/l, respectively. The enzyme can easily convert aliphatic nitrile and aromatic nitriles to their corresponding acids. Furthermore, this enzyme demonstrated regioselectivity in hydrolysis of aliphatic dinitriles. This specific characteristic makes this nitrilase have a great potential for commercial production of various cyanocarboxylic acids by hydrolyzing readily available dinitriles.
A new coumarin based 3-cyanopyridine scaffolds bearing biologically active sulfonamide group has been inserted using both conventional and microwave method. Initial step involves the synthesis of 2-amino-6-(6-fluoro-2-oxo-2Hchromen-3-yl)-4-(aryl)nicotinonitriles 5a-m by reacting 3-acetyl-6-fluoro-2H-chromen-2-one 3, various aromatic aldehydes 4a-m, malononitrile and ammonium acetate. Finally compounds 5a-m are reacted with benzenesulfonyl chloride to afford targeted compounds 7a-m. These compounds have been characterized by means of IR, 1 H NMR, 13 C NMR and mass spectra. Newly synthesized compounds 7a-m have been screened for their antibacterial and antifungal activities against Escherichia coli, Staphylococcus aureus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Staphylococcus pyogenes, Candida albicans, Aspergillus niger and Aspergillus clavatus. Compounds 7c, 7d, 7i, 7j and 7l are found to possess significant activity against tested organisms.
A strain of Comamonas testosteroni JA1 known for its capacity to hydroxylate 3-cyanopyridine to 3-cyano-6-hydroxypyridine was found to be also capable to hydroxylate nicotinic acid at a higher rate. In the course of the induced cultivation the forming 6-hydroxynicotinic acid was degraded either slightly, in the presence of nicotinic acid in the medium, or faster, in the absence of nicotinic acid. In a combined process of hydroxylation of nicotinic acid by growing culture and hydroxylation of 3-cyanopyridine by resting cells of Comamonas testosteroni JA1, not only an additional amount of 50.38 g of solid 6-hydroxynicotinic acid was produced from 1 L of cultivation broth with a 99.97 % molar conversion yield, but also the yield of 3-cyano-6-hydroxypyridine produced was more than doubled. This can be compared to that of the resting cells from the induced cultivation broth where within 8 h an amount of 5.77 g of solid 3-cyano-6-hydroxypyridine was produced by resting cells from 1 L of the cultivation broth. This also was superior to 4.39 g/L of cultivation broth of resting cells reported in the literature.
Abstract An improved synthesis of 6-aryl-3-cyanopyridine-2-(1H)-thiones utilizing enaminones as starting materials catalyzed by 1,4-diazabicyclo[2.2.2]octane (DABCO) was described. Moreover, a convenient one-pot conversion of aryl ketones to 6-aryl-3-cyanopyridine-2-(1H)-thiones was also developed in moderate to good yields (up to 80%).
Most available methods for modifying the catalytic properties of enzymes are costly and time-consuming, as they rely on the information of enzyme crystal structure or require handling large amounts of mutants. This study employs sequence analysis and saturation mutagenesis to improve the catalytic activity and reduce the by-product formation of fungal nitrilase in the absence of structural information. Site-saturation mutagenesis of isoleucine 128 and asparagine 161 in the fungal nitrilase from Gibberella intermedia was performed and mutants I128L and N161Q showed higher catalytic activity toward 3-cyanopyridine and weaker amide forming ability than the wild-type. Moreover, the activity of double mutant I128L–N161Q was improved by 100% and the amount of amide formed was reduced to only one third of that of the wild-type. The stability of the mutants was significantly enhanced at 30 and 40 °C. The catalytic efficiency of the mutant enzymes was substantially improved. In this study, we successfully applied a novel approach that required no structural information and minimal workload of mutant screening for engineering of fungal nitrilase.
The culture medium for the bacteria was composed of 1.0% of meat extract, 1.0% of Polypepton, and 0.5% NaCl (pH 7.2). The medium for actinomyces contained 1.0% malt extract, 0.4% yeast extract, and 0.4% D-glucose (pH 7.2). The medium for yeasts consisted of 1.0% D-glucose, 0.5% Polypepton, 0.3% yeast extract, and 0.3% malt extract (pH 5.6). The medium for fungi contained 20 g of sucrose and boiled extract from 200 g of potato per liter (pH 6.0). Tap water was used for the media described above, and the pH was adjusted by using HCl and NaOH. Each microorganism was inoculated into a test tube containing 10 ml of the medium with 0.05% concentrations of the inducers, i.e., phenylacetaldoxime (PAOx), pyridine-3-aldoxime (PyOx), phenylacetonitrile (PAN), and 3-cyanopyridine (CyPy), and then incubated with shaking for 2 to 14 days at 30°C until their growth reached maximum levels. For facultative anaerobic bacteria, the strains were also grown under static conditions.
Pyridine functionalities have been widely studied 1,2 and widely used [3] [4] [5] [6] but still generate much interest due to their wide range of application in medicinal chemistry. [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] The naturally occurring B 6 -vitamins pyridoxine, pyrodoxal, pyridoxamine and codecarbaxylase contain a pyridine nucleus. 12 Pyridine derivatives have been used as herbicides, 13 for enrichment of cereals, 14 for regulation of arterial pressure, 15 and cholesterol levels in blood. 16 Some pyridines constitute an important class of antitumor compounds. [17] [18] They also show antibacterial, 19 antifungal, 20 antimyotic 21 and antidepressant 22 activities. Some bifunctional pyridines are used as non linear optical materials, 23 electrical materials, 24 chelating agents in metalligand chemistry, 25 and as fluorescent liquid crystals. 26 Among them, 2-amino-3-cyanopyridines have been identified as IKK-β inhibitors. 27 Besides this, they are important and useful intermediates in preparing variety of heterocyclic compounds. [28] [29] [30] Therefore, the synthesis of 2-amino-3-cyano-4,6-diarylpyridines attract much interest in organic chemistry. There are a variety of methods described in literature [31] [32] [33] to synthesize similar skeleton. Many precedent methods, however have inevitable drawbacks, for eg., conventional methods used in synthesis of substituted pyridines involve volatile organic solvents and display only moderate to low yields with low atom efficiency. 34 In developing a more versatile route for synthesis of such compounds, and adopting principles of green chemistry, we have extended our studies with new green procedures (ultrasonic irradiation and grinding).
Nitrilases are an important class of industrial enzymes. They require mild reaction conditions and are highly efficient and environmentally friendly, so they are used to catalyze the synthesis of carboxylic acid from nitrile, a process considered superior to conventional chemical syntheses. Nitrilases should be immobilized to overcome difficulties in recovery after the reaction and to stabilize the free enzyme. The nitrilase from Clostridium thermocellum was expressed, identified and displayed on the surface of Bacillus subtilis spores by using the spore coat protein G of B. subtilis as an anchoring motif. In a free state, the recombinant nitrilase catalyzed the conversion of 3-cyanopyridine to niacin and displayed maximum catalytic activity (8.22 units/mg protein) at 40 degrees C and pH 7.4. SDS-PAGE and Western blot were used to confirm nitrilase display. Compared with the free enzyme, the sporeimmobilized nitrilase showed a higher tolerance for adverse environmental conditions. After the reaction, recombinant spores were recovered via centrifugation and reused 3 times to catalyze the conversion of 3-cyanopyridine with 75.3% nitrilase activity. This study demonstrates an effective means of nitrilase immobilization via spore surface display, which can be applied in biological processes or conversion. (C) 2015 S. Karger AG, Basel
Through screening a library of nitrile hydratases developed in-house, NHT-120 was selected to catalyze the hydration of 3-cyanopyridine for production of nicotinamide. After reaction optimization, a fed-batch method was used to alleviate the substrate inhibition. Under this approach, 200 g/L of 3-cyanopyridine could be converted to nicotinamide in 5.5 h, and no nicotinic acid was produced. Under a substrate to enzyme ratio of 100:1 (w/w), nicotinamide in the reaction solution could reach 230 g/L.
Abstract 3-Cyanopyridinase activity, i.e. the ability to convert 3-cyanopyridine to nicotinic acid plus ammonia, was induced in stationary phase cultures of Nocardia rhodochrous LL100-21 by the addition of 2-, 3-, or 4-cyanopyridine or benzonitrile; the latter nitrile gave maximum induction. Harvested bacteria possessing 3-cyanopyridinase activity could stoichiometrically convert 3-cyanopyridine at concentrations of up to 0.5 m to nicotinic acid. Both 3-cyanopyridine and nicotinic acid inhibited the hydrolysis of 3-cyanopyridine by intact bacteria. Bacteria immobilized in calcium alginate beads and used in column bioreactors retained 3-cyanopyridinase activity for over 150 h when continuously supplied with 0.3 m 3-cyanopyridine.
In reaction of alkyl 2-amino-5,6-dialkyl-3-cyanopyridine-4-carboxylates with isocyanates formed unstable ureas, and with nitrous acid at 60–70°C alkyl 5,6-dialkyl-2-oxo-1,2-dihydro-4-pyidinecarboxylates were obtained. It was shown for the latter that their reactions with organic acids and amides occurred at the cyano group, and the alkaline hydrolysis involved the ester group.
A rapid, simple and sensitive fluorometric assay method for the determination of nitrilase activity is described. 3-Cyanopyridine was hydrolysed to nicotinic acid by Rhodococcus rhodochrous and the liberated NH(3) was allowed to react with buffered o -phthaldialdehyde-2-mercaptoethanol solution (pH 7.4) to form a fluorochrome. The fluorescence intensity was found to be stable after 20 min incubation at room temperature, and the optimum pH for the reaction was found to be 7.4. The fluorescence intensity was linearly related to enzyme activity with the substrate concentration ranging from 100 to 1000 mM. The activity determined by the proposed method correlates ( r =0.9625) well with the established Berthelot method. The proposed method is more sensitive than the existing methods for the determination of nitrilase activity.
Abstract The electrochemical behaviours of the three isomeric cyanopyridines have been studied in liquid ammonia by cyclic voltammetry and controlled potential coulometry. Reaction mechanisms are proposed on the basis of the observed electrochemical behaviour of products and the mass spectra of products produced by the alkylation of the electrogenerated organic anions. The kinetics of charge transfer reactions have been examined by interfacial impedance measurements and the rate of dimerisation of the radical anions of 3-cyanopyridine evaluated.
Reaction of ethyl 4-chloro-2-phenylpyrimidine-4-carboxylate (4) with 5-chloro-2-methylthiophenol or 3-aryl-4-phenyl-1,2,4-triazole-5-thiol yielded the corresponding thioethers (5) and (8a, b), respectively. Careful alkaline hydrolysis of (5) yielded the corresponding carboxylic acid (6). Reaction of (4) withp-aminoacetophenone yielded compound (10) which was reacted with certain aromatic aldehydes to afford the α, β-unsaturated ketones (11a–d). Condensation of (11a–d) with malononitrile or phenylhydrazine yielded the 2-amino-3-cyanopyridines (12a–f) or the 2-pyrazolines (13a, b), respectively. Seven representative compounds were tested for theirin vitro antimicrobial activity against some pathogenic micro-organisms, some of them were proved to be active.
The invention belongs to the field of chemical industry, and particularly relates to a production process of 3-cyanopyridine. The production process of 3-cyanopyridine is characterized by preparing 3-cyanopyridine by adopting 3-methylpyridine, ammonia and air and catalyzing ammoxidation reaction in the presence of a catalyst. The production process disclosed by the invention has the advantages that the usage of a novel catalyst promotes the mole yield of the product 3-cyanopyridine to be higher than 90%, the catalyst is stable in catalysis property and can be continuously used for a long time, and a process technology is advanced, stable and reliable.
In our earlier work we have shown [1,2] that 3-cyanopyridine-2-thiolates react with malononitrile dimer (2-amino-1,1,3-tricyanopropene) in hot EtOH to afford 2,4-diamino-5-imino-5H-pyrido[2',3':2,3]thiopyrano[4,5-b]pyridines 1. The compounds 1a,b,c are promising reagents to prepare polyheterocyclic ensembles. We found that compounds 1a,b easily react with acid chlorides with the closure of the pyrimidine ring and the formation of new polyheterocyclic ensembles, 8,9,10,11-tetrahydro-7-thia-1,4,6,8-tetraazabenzo [de]anthracenes 2a,b in modest (34-57%) yields (Scheme 1). The relatively low yields of the polycycles 2 are due to non-optimal reaction conditions, the presence of several nucleophilic centers in the molecule of 1 and associated ambiguity of acylation. Confirmation of this assumption resulted from the fact that acylation of compounds 1a,c with Ac2O gives mixtures. Thus, when 1a,c were heated under reflux in Ac2O, products of acylation at the 2-NH2 group, 2c',d' were obtained along with the expected compounds 2c,d (the molar ratio of compounds 2d:2d' was ~1:2 (~24% and ~47%, respectively), whereas the molar ratio of compounds 2c:2c' was ~3:1 (~59% and ~20%, respectively). The starting compound 1b was prepared by analogy with known procedure [1] from pyridine-2-thiolate 3b and malononitrile dimer 4.
The present invention relates to a preparation method of 6-hydroxy-3-cyanopyridine. 6-hydroxy nicotinic acid is used as raw material; 1-hydroxy benzene triazole hydrate and dicyclohexyl carbodiimide are used as condensing agents and react with ammonia to prepare 6-hydroxy nicotinamide; the 6-hydroxy nicotinamide has dehydration reaction under the influence of Cyanuric chloride to prepare the crude6-hydroxy-3-cyanopyridine; the crude product contains a small amount of by-product of cyanurate, and reacts with paratoluensulfonyl chloride to prepare low-polarity sulfonylation material; the cyanurate can be separated after being filtered and washed by lye; the 6-hydroxy-3-cyanopyridine can be released through the hydrolysis of the sulfonylation material under the alkaline condition. The preparation method has the advantages of simple operation, low cost, reaction conditions that can be easily realized, and suitability for the large-scale industrial production.
Bromo-[2H5]diethylenetriamineplatinum(II) bromide has been prepared and characterised, and the kinetics of its reaction with 3-cyanopyridine in deuterium oxide solution have been investigated. The results are compared with those previously reported for the corresponding reaction of the protium complex in protium oxide solution, and the deuterium isotope effect observed is discussed in terms of an associative mechanism.
Abstract The mechanism of activation thioamide-pyridine anti-tuberculosis prodrugs is poorly described in the literature. It has recently been shown that ethionamide, an important component of second-line therapy for the treatment of multi-drug-resistant tuberculosis, is activated through an enzymatic electron transfer (ET) reaction. In an attempt to shed light on the activation of thioamide drugs, we have mimicked a redox process involving the thionicotinamide (thio) ligand, investigating its reactivity through coordination to the redox reversible [Fe III/II (CN) 5 (H 2 O)] 2−/3− metal center. The reaction of the Fe III complex with thionicotinamide leads to the ligand conversion to the 3-cyanopyridine species coordinated to a Fe II metal center. The rate constant, k et = 10 s −1 , was determined for this intra-molecular ET reaction. A kinetic study for the cross-reaction of thionicotinamide and [Fe(CN) 6 ] 3− was also carried out. The oxidation of thionicotinamide by [Fe(CN) 6 ] 3− leads to formation of mainly 3-cyanopyridine and [Fe(CN) 6 ] 4− with a k et = (5.38 ± 0.03) M −1 s −1 at 25 °C, pH 12.0. The rate of this reaction is strongly dependent on pH due to an acid–base equilibrium related to the deprotonation of the R-SH functional group of the imidothiol form of thionicotinamide. The kinetic results reinforced the assignment of an intra-molecular mechanism for the ET reaction of [Fe III (CN) 5 (H 2 O)] 2− and the thioamide ligand. These results can be valuable for the design of new thiocarbonyl-containing drugs against resistant strains of Mycobacterium tuberculosis by a self-activating mechanism.
The nitrile hydratase (NHase, EC 3.5.5.1) activity of Rhodococcus rhodochrous PA-34 was explored for the conversion of 3-cyanopyridine to nicotinamide. The NHase activity (∼18 U/mg dry cell weight, dcw) was observed in 0.1 M phosphate buffer, pH 8.0 containing 1M 3-cyanopyridine as substrate, and 0.75 mg of resting cells (dry cell weight) per ml reaction mixture at 40°C. However, 25°C was more suitable for prolonged batch reaction at high substrate (3-cyanopyridine) concentration. In a batch reaction (1 liter), 7M 3-cyanopyridine (729 g) was completely converted to nicotinamide (855 g) in 12h at 25°C using 9.0 g resting cells (dry cell weight) of R. rhodochrous PA-34.
An unprecedented Rh(III)-catalyzed double C(sp2)-H bond carbenoid insertion and annulation of 2-aryl-3-cyanopyridines with α-diazo carbonyl compounds is presented. Through this cascade reaction, a series of naphthoquinolizinone derivatives with a large π-system were efficiently prepared. The reactions could selectively afford naphthoquinolizinones with either an amine or an amide unit attached on the 11-position depending on the nature of the solvent and the additive used. Compared with literature methods, this is a more efficient, convenient, and atom-economic way to provide polycyclic heteroaromatic compounds through direct π-extension of simple aromatics via inert C-H bond activation and functionalization.
The nitrogen-fixing bacterium Ensifer meliloti CGMCC 7333 and its nitrile hydratase (NHase) degrade the neonicotinoid insecticides, thiacloprid (THI) and acetamiprid (ACE), to their corresponding amide metabolites. The NHase gene cluster is composed of α-subunit and β-subunit genes and a hypothetical protein gene. The functionality of the hypothetical protein downstream of the NHase coding genes and the characteristics of CGMCC 7333 NHase were explored in this study. Co-expression of the hypothetical protein coding gene with NHase (α- and β-subunit genes) in Escherichia coli Rosetta enhanced NHase hydration of THI and ACE two- and four-fold, respectively, and also significantly improved NHase solubility compared with the absence of the hypothetical protein coding gene. The NHase displayed an optimal reaction temperature of 50 °C for THI hydration and was unstable when the incubation temperature exceeded 40 °C. The optimum reaction pH was 7.0 and the NHase activity was stable in the pH range of 6 to 9. The enzyme activity for THI hydration was slightly inhibited by copper, zinc, and iron, and decreased by 68.6%, 75.7%, and 70.3% when 2% ethanol, ethyl acetate, and acetone were added to the reaction mixture, respectively, whereas dichloromethane and trichloromethane had no effect. The Km and kcat values of CGMCC 7333 NHase for THI hydration were 12.39 mmol L−1 and 131.36 s−1, respectively. Substrate specificity analysis indicated that CGMCC 7333 NHase also transformed 3-cyanopyridine, benzonitrile, and indole-3-acetonitrile to the corresponding amide products, with maximum specific activities of 652.52, 255.32, and 263.93 U mg−1 protein, respectively.
The present invention provides a 3-cyano - preparation of pyridine N- oxide, 3-cyanopyridine was added to the reaction flask, water is the solvent, sulfuric acid as a co-catalyst, an oxidizing agent after heating the dropwise addition, the reaction was complete oxidation cooled, allowed to stand, filtering and drying to obtain. The method of the present invention, a high selectivity and efficient -N- Preparation of 3-cyano-oxide and niacinamide -N- oxide content is very low, the next chlorination reaction is conducive to improve the synthesis of 2-chloro-nicotinic acid yield. Low production cost using the method of the present invention, while the purity and yield of oxidation products increase, suitable for industrial production.
Pyridine is a heterocyclic organic compound with the chemical formula C 5 H 5 N and is structurally related to benzene, with one CH group replaced by a nitrogen atom [8] . It is also a six-membered cyclic aromatic molecule with and binding capabilities through its nitrogen electron lone pair and system, respectively, which has inspired considerable interests in its bonding with metals over the last decade. A number of experimental and theoretical investigations have established that most metal-pyridine complexes are complexes [9] [10] [11] [12] . It has importance in industrial organic chemistry, both as a fundamental building block and as a solvent and reagent in organic synthesis [13] . Pyridine derivatives also play significant role in many biological systems as the component of several vitamins, nucleic acids, enzymes, and proteins [14] . Pyridine derivatives have occupied a unique position in the field of medicinal chemistry. Some of them constitute an important class of antitumor compounds [15] . 2-Amino-3-cyanopyridines have been identified to possess antibacterial, [16] antimicrobial, 2 Journal of Chemistry [17, 18] antifungal, [19] cardiotonic, [20] analgesic [21] , antiinflammatory [22] , and antilung cancer [23] activities. Nickel is an important transition metal normally stable in aqueous solution in the +2 oxidation state [24] . It is important in biological system, which is a key factor affecting the production of secondary plant metabolites, thus influencing plant resistance to disease [25] . It interacts with iron found in the hemoglobin and helps in oxygen transport, stimulates the metabolism, and is regarded as a key metal in several plants and animal enzyme systems [26] . Nickel is involved in the transmission of genetic code (DNA, RNA) and it is also present in certain enzyme systems that metabolize sugars [27] . This metal is more attracted by the researchers in recent years, Many nickel complexes have been reported with their importance [28] [29] [30] [31] . Nickel sulfate hexahydrate is used in nickel electroplating, Nickelocene is used as a catalyst and complexing agent, and nickel titanate is used as a pigment [32] .
The nitrile hydratase (NHase, EC 3.5.5.1) activity of Rhodococcus rhodochrous PA-34 was explored for the conversion of 3-cyanopyridine to nicotinamide. The NHase activity (~18 U/mg dry cell weight, dcw) was observed in 0.1 M phosphate buffer, pH 8.0 containing 1M 3-cyanopyridine as substrate, and 0.75 mg of resting cells (dry cell weight) per ml reaction mixture at 40°C. However, 25°C was more suitable for prolonged batch reaction at high substrate (3-cyanopyridine) concentration. In a batch reaction (1 liter), 7M 3-cyanopyridine (729 g) was completely converted to nicotinamide (855 g) in 12h at 25°C using 9.0 g resting cells (dry cell weight) of R. rhodochrous PA-34.
The nicotinic acid (niacin) and nicotinamide (niacinamide) comprise Vitamin B3. This vitamin is also popularly known as pellagra-preventing (P-P) factor as its defi ciency in human being causes 'pellagra'. Nicotinamide is the physiologically active form of Vitamin B3 in animals and it is a component of coenzymes NAD (nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide) and NADP (nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate) 1 . The world production of nicotinamide and nicotinic acid is estimated to be 22,000 tons per annum. Out of the total market demand for nicotinamide and nicotinic acid, 45%, 30% and 10% is in USA, Europe and Japan respectively 2 . Nicotinamide is chemically synthesized either by the action of ammonia on nicotinyl chloride, or heating nicotinic acid with urea in the presence of molybdenum or reacting 3-cyanopyridine with hydrogen peroxide in alkaline solution 3 . It can also be synthesized by refl uxing nicotinic acid with absolute ethanol, sulphuric acid and ammonia 4 . However, these processes require high temperature and pressure, harsh acidic and basic conditions, and yield undesired byproducts such as nicotinic acid and HCN. In order to overcome these limitation, nitrile hydratase (EC 3.5.5.1) mediated conversion of 3-cyanopyridine to nicotinamide has been proposed 5 and the reaction is outlined below:
Among the nitrile hydratases so far reported 5-11 the nitrile hydratase of R. rhodochrous J1 5 and R. rhodochrous PA-34 6 have exhibited high activity for transformation of 3-cyanopyridine to nicotinamide. In this paper, the bench scale conversion of 3-cyanopyridine to nicotinamide using resting cells of R. rhodochrous PA-34 is being reported. 
Various 2-propen-1-ones react with malononitrile under basic catalysis to yield cyclohexanol derivatives. This happens via double Michael reaction of malononitrile with propenone, followed by intramolecular cyclization under basic conditions (1-3). On the other hand, reaction of 1,3-diaryl-2-propen-1-ones with malononitrile in the presence of a sufficient amount of alkoxide anion led to the formation of 2-alkoxy-3-cyanopyridines (1-4). Numerous condensed pyridine carbonitrile systems were obtained under similar conditions by the reaction of malononitrile with various a,b-unsaturated ketones (5-9). In the present work, the reaction of 1-(2-thienyl or furanyl)-3-(2-hydroxyphenyl)-2-propen-1-ones with malononitrile in the presence of a sufficient amount of alkoxide anion was investigated. The hydroxyl group might behave as an active nucleophilic centre, affording condensed 5H-[1]benzopyrano[3,4-c]pyridine derivatives. The synthesis of this condensed heterocyclic system is interesting because of the potential biological activities associated with its structure, such as antipsychotic dopamine D 4 receptor antagonist (10), cancer chemopreventive (11), antibacterial (including anti-tubercular) (12), antirheumatic (13), against Alzheimer disease, Parkinson's disease, anxiety, depression, allergic responses and sedation (14). On the other hand, polysubstituted pyridines, especially the 3,5-pyridinedicarbonitriles, are interesting as antioxidants and NADH co-enzyme In continuation of our search for new substituted pyridine based anti-inflammatories, reaction of 1-(2-thienyl or furanyl)-3-(2-hydroxyphenyl)-2-propen-1-ones (1) with malononitrile in alcoholic KOH solution afforded a mixture of 4-alkoxy-2-(2-thienyl or furanyl)-5H-[1]benzopyrano[3,4-c]pyridine-5-ones (2) and 2-alkoxy-4-amino-6-(2-thienyl or furanyl)-3,5-pyridinedicarbonitriles (3). Some of the synthesized compounds were evaluated for their anti-inflammatory and analgesic activities compared to diclofenac potassium as positive control. Detailed synthesis, spectroscopic and toxicity data are reported.
In industry, chemicals are typically synthesized through catalytically accelerated chemical processes. The use of biocatalysts is an increasingly important trend in achieving environmentally friendly chemical production processes. Nitrile Hydratases (NHases) are well-known biocatalysts that are used by several manufacturers such as Mitsubishi Rayon Corporation and Lonza for the conversion of acrylonitrile to acrylamide and 3-cyanopyridine to nicotinamide, respectively. Amides, in general, are used in polymer preparation, adhesive manufacturing, and the paper industry. Refrigeration is needed in the enzymatic hydration process on the industrial scale to maintain a low reaction temperature to stabilize the NHase enzyme. The use of whole cells instead of purified enzyme is one way to overcome this stability issue. However, the permeability of nitriles across the bacterial plasma membrane and cell wall is an important issue in order to get nitrile substrates into the cell and amide products excreted. The presence of unwanted enzymes in whole cells that can interfere with NHase activity, raw material, or product inhibition are also important considerations. Despite these issues, NHase shows great promise as a biocatalyst and, as a more detailed understanding of their catalytic mechanism and biological assembly processes emerge, improved biocatalyst designs that are more efficient, stable, and selective will advance their industrial use. The goal of the dissertation is to: study the formation of Fe-Type α(ɛ) protein complex, investigate the cellular maturation of Fe-Type nitrile hydratase, and discover intermediates along the catalytic cycle of NHases in-order to gain additional insight into the bio-assembly and catalytic mechanism of NHase enzymes.
This work presents a series of layered systems based on phenylmalonate-containing copper(II) complexes and different coligands. Eight compounds [Cu(L)(Phmal)]n where L = pyrimidine (pym, 1) pyrazine (pyz, 2), 3-cyanopyridine (3-CNpy, 3), 4-cyanopyridine (4-CNpy, 4), 3-fluoropyridine (3-Fpy, 5), 3-chloropyridine (3-Clpy, 6), 3-bromopyridine (3-Brpy, 7) and 3-iodopyridine (3-Ipy, 8), have been synthesized and magneto-structurally characterized. The coligands selected not only modify the coordination environment of the metal ion, blocking or extending the polymerization, but also interact with the phenyl ring of the phenylmalonate ligand and dramatically affect the crystal packing through weak interactions. The crystallographic analysis reveals that compounds 1–8 present a corrugated square grid of carboxylate bridged copper(II) atoms where the pyridine ligands are alternatively located above and below each layer and, at the same time, inversely to the position of the phenyl group of the Phmal ligand. It is important to note that the pym and pyz ligands in 1 and 2 do not act as bridges between two copper atoms, whereas weak interactions between the cyano groups are also present in the structures of the complexes 3 and 4. The increase of the Van der Waals radius of the halogen along the series 5–8 accounts for the increase of the interlayer separation. Variable-temperature magnetic susceptibility measurements show the occurrence of different magnetic behaviours. Weak interactions are expected for the anti–syn carboxylate bridge in the out-of-plane configuration, that can be either ferro- or antiferromagnetic. Therefore, in this manuscript we shed light on the influence of the magneto-structural relationship in these square grid layered Cu(II) complexes.
A novel synthesis of condensed 3-cyanopyridine-2(1H)-thiones and condensed carbocyclic nitrile derivatives utilizing arylmethylene(cyano)thioacetamides and cycloalkylidenemalononitriles or aryl-methylenemalononitriles and cycloalkylidene(cyano)thioacetamides as starting components is described.
Abstract This paper describes the investigations carried out on the kinetics of the vapour-phase ammoxidation of 3-methyl-pyridine to 3-cyanopyridine, over a Cr 2 O 3 promoted V 2 O 5 Al 2 O 3 catalyst. The reaction was carried out in a packed bed flow reactor at atmospheric pressure and in the temperature range 300–370°C. The data obtained in an integral reactor were interpreted by Langmuir-Hinshelwood mechanism, wherein the surface reaction between an adsorbed 3-methylpyridine molecule and an adsorbed oxygen atom was found to be the rate controlling step. The parameter values in the rate expression were estimated by non-linear regression analysis. The activation energy involved in this reaction was found to be 20.6 kcal/g mole.
Substituted di- and tetrahydro-3-cyanopyridine-2-thiolates, used in the synthesis of the corresponding 2-(thiazol-2-yl)acrylonitriles and partially hydrogenated 2-alkylthiopyridines, were obtained from thienylmethylenecyanothioacetamide and 2-acetoacetotoluidide in the presence of N-methylmorpholine or piperidine.
We have synthesized a two-dimensional manganese(II) octacyanotungstate(V)-based ferrimagnet with a magnetic ordering temperature of 35 K. Single crystal analysis showed that MnII ion was axially capped by 3-cyanopyridines, forming a two-dimensional structure. This bimetallic assembly showed ferrimagnetic properties due to the antiferromagnetic interaction between magnetic orbitals of dz2 on WV ion and dx′y′ on MnII ion in the inside of the two dimensional layer.
Abstract The metastable states of the Cs[{Co(3-cpy) 2 }{W(CN) 8 }] · H 2 O (3-cpy = 3-cyanopyridine) complex, characterized by a CTIST phenomenon with a high-temperature phase formed by Co HS II ( S = 3 / 2 ) -NC- W V ( S = 1 / 2 ) units and a low-temperature phase formed by Co LS III ( S = 0 ) -NC- W IV ( S = 0 ) units, have been induced at low temperature either by thermal quenching (RC state) or by irradiation (PI state). The T (TIESST) and T (LIESST) relaxation temperatures of RC and PI states, respectively, have been determined and the incompleteness of photo-excitation discussed. The presence of sigmoidal kinetics and the observation of LITH hysteresis loop under irradiation demonstrate the cooperative nature of the relaxation. The thermodynamic parameters have been determined and a simulation of the T (TIESST) curve done.
Abstract:Twelve novel 4-aryloxypyrido[3′,2′∶4,5]thieno[3,2-d]pyrimidines were synthesized by the reaction of substituted-phenols with pyrido[3′,2′∶4,5]thieno[3,2-d] pyrimidin-4-keto(2) which was preparaed by cyclizing reaction of 3-amino-pyrido[3′,2′∶4,5]thiophene-2-methyl ethyl(1) with formamide.1was obtained by the ring-closing reaction of 2-chloro-3-cyanopyridine with ethyl petrol thioglycolate.The structures were characterized by1HNMR,13C NMR,IR and elemental analysis.
In the present study we show that the enzymatic activity of the coenzyme nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) and its analogues (C(O)NH2 replaced by C(S)NH2, C(O)CH3, C(O)H and CN) with horse liver alcohol dehydrogenase (LADH) (alcohol:NAD+ oxidoreductase, EC 1.1.1.1) can be rationalized by their conformation in the active site determined with molecular mechanics (AMBER, assisted model building with energy refinement). In order to establish the relation between the hydride transfer rate and the conformation of the NAD+ and its analogues, kinetic experiments with the poor substrate isopropanol were carried out. It appears that the enzymatic activity can be readily explained by the geometry of the pyridinium ring, in particular the magnitude of the 'out-of-plane' rotation of the carboxamide side chain (or analogues). The latter is nicely illustrated in the case of 3-cyanopyridine adenine dinucleotide which lacks any 'out-of-plane' rotation and concomitantly exhibits no significant enzymatic activity.
A convenient method for the synthesis of 2-chloro-5-hydroxynicotinonitrile (10) via 5-amino-2-chloro-3-methylpyridine (3) is described. Subsequent conversions provided the basic metabolite 2 of (S)-2-(3-t-butylamino-2-hydroxypropoxy)-3-cyanopyridine (1). 13C Nmr data is also presented to characterize 2-chloro-5-fluoro-3-methylpyridine (5), a by-product in the Schiemann reaction having unexpected 1H and 19F nmr spectra.
Two newβ-adrenoceptor blocking drugs with acute antihypertensive and positive inotropic effects are described: Compound A (2-[4-(3-tert. butylamino-2-hydroxypropoxy)phenyl]-4-trifluoromethylimidazole) and MK-761 (2-(3-tert. butylamino-2-hydroxypropoxy)-3-cyanopyridine hydrochloride). In SH rats both compounds, given orally, lowered arterial pressure and were more potent than hydralazine. The antihypertensive effect of compound A but not of MK-761 was antagonized by timolol. Both compounds had positive inotropic activity on cat heart papillary muscles; these effects were antagonized by timolol. The pretreatment of animals with reserpine greatly reduced the positive inotropic effect of MK-761 but not of compound A. The acute antihypertensive and positive inotropic effects of compound A are likely to be at least partially due to stimulation ofβ-adrenoceptors, e.g. intrinsic sympathomimetic activity. The effects of MK-761 on the same parameters appear to be mediated by different mechanisms.
2-Chloronicotinic acid was synthesized from 3-cyanopyridine by the reaction of oxidation,chlorination and hydrolysis.The reaction conditions were optimized.The total yield and purity of the product reached 77.2%,99.5%,respectively.The structure of the product was identified by IR and MS.
Horse liver alcohol dehydrogenase (LADH) (alcohol:NAD + oxidoreductase, EC 1.1.1.1) has been Abbreviations: LADH, horse liver alcohol dehydrogenase; MezSO , dimethyl sulfoxide; NAD+/NADH, nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide and its reduced form; ac3pdAD+/ac3pdADH, 3-acetylpyridine adenine dinucleotide and its reduced form; sNAD+/sNADH, thionicotinamide adenine dinucleotide and its reduced form; fPdAD+/fPdADH, 3-formylpyridine adenine dinucleotide and its reduced form; cnaPdAD+/cn3pdADH, 3-cyanopyridine adenine dinucleotide and its reduced form; UV/VIS, ultraviolet/visible light; AMBER, assisted model building with energy refinement; MNDO, minor neglect of differential overlap program.
For the present study we used the analogues thionicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (sNAD+), 3-acetylpyridine adenine dinucleotide (ac3pdAD +), 3-formylpyridine adenine dinucleotide (fPdAD ÷) and 3-cyanopyridine adenine dinucleotide (cn3PdAD +) carrying the pyridine side chains C(S)NH2, C(O)CH3, C(O)H and CN, respectively. Unfortunately, for the corresponding LADH-coenzyme complexes no X-ray data are available. We therefore resorted to molecular mechanics calculation to assess the geometry of the analogues and its interactions with the enzyme. This procedure proved to be reliable for NAD ÷ as the calculational results were found to correlate closely with the available X-ray data [18, 19] .
