Abstract The cyclic dimer 1,8-diazacyclotetradecane-2,9-dione is one of the most important components of caprolactam solution concentrates and triggers significant agglomeration during the recovery process in industrial polyamide-6 plants. For this reason, the agglomeration behaviour and morphology changes of cyclic dimers in solution concentrates were investigated. Precipitates separated from an ∼80 wt.% solution concentrate were explored. Cyclic dimers aggregated in the solution concentrates at lower temperatures to form larger, thicker, and compacted structures or multi-layers structures. An appropriate increase in the solution temperature and addition of fresh caprolactam aid in avoiding agglomeration, but high temperatures (over 140 ℃) initiate the hydrolytic polymerisation of caprolactam in the solution concentrate, which aggravates blockages. Based on these results, an optimised process model is introduced to avoid aggregation.
6-Aminohexanoic acid cyclic dimer hydrolase produced by Achromobacter guttatus cells grown on 6-aminohexanoic acid cyclic dimer (1,8-diazacyclotetradecane-2,9-dione) was purified until it was homogeneous according to polyacrylamide disc gel electrophoresis, sodium dodecylsulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, Sephadex G-200 column chromatography, and analytical centrifugation. The following characteristics of the purified enzyme were observed. ::: ::: ::: ::: (1) The molecular weight of the enzyme, estimated to be 110 000 by column chromatography on Sephadex G-200 and 100 000 by sedimentative equilibrium, together with the minimum molecular weight of 55 000 obtained by sodium dodecylsulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, indicated it is a dimeric enzyme. The sedimentation constant (s20) was estimated to be 5.7 S from the sedimentation velocity. ::: ::: ::: ::: (2) The enzyme had an optimum pH of 7.3 when 6-aminohexanoic acid cyclic dimer was used as substrate. It was stable in a pH range between 5.5 to 8.5, and 50% and 100% of activity was lost after 10 min of heating at 45°C and 50°C respectively. The optimum temperature for activity was 33°C. The Michaelis-Menten constant (Km) was 6 mM toward the dimer, and the turnover number was 8 s−1 assuming a molecular weight of 100 000. ::: ::: ::: ::: (3) This enzyme was strongly inhibited by 1 μM diisoprpylphosphofluoridate and 10 μM p-chloromercuribenzoate but scarcely inhibited by 100 mM ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid. The enzyme inhibited by p-chloromercuribenzoate could be reactivated by 2-mercaptoethanol. ::: ::: ::: ::: (4) This enzyme was only active on 6-aminohexanoic acid cyclic dimer to form 6-aminohexanoyl-6-aminohexanoic acid. It was inactive on 6-aminohexanoic acid oligomers (degree of polymerization 2 to 6), various cyclic amides, cyclic diamides, amides, oligopeptides, and casein. ::: ::: ::: ::: (5) The absorption coefficient (A1%280 nm) of the enzyme was 19.4. The enzyme was composed of 500 amino acid residues including 3 cysteines; from this the molecular weight was calculated to be 103 200 as a dimer. ::: ::: ::: ::: (6) 6-Aminohexanoic acid cyclic dimer hydrolase was classified as a new cyclic amide hydrolase.
Aims: Alcaligenes sp. NBRC 14130 was found as a strain hydrolysing a mixture of (±)-trans- and (±)-cis ethyl chrysanthemates to (1R,3R)-(+)-trans-chrysanthemic acid. The Alcaligenes cells also have hydrolytic activity for 6-aminohexanoate-cyclic dimer (6-AHCD, 1,8-diazacyclotetradecane-2,9-dione). The correlation of function on the enzyme from the Alcaligenes strain with hydrolysis activities for both ethyl chrysanthemate and 6-AHCD was demonstrated. ::: ::: ::: ::: Methods and Results: The esterase was purified to homogeneity. The purified esterase hydrolysed 20 mmol l−1 ester including the four stereoisomers to the corresponding (+)-trans acid with a 37% molar conversion of ethyl (+)-trans chrysanthemate. The esterase showed high hydrolytic activity for various short-chain fatty acid esters, n-hexane amide and 6-AHCD. The amino acid sequence of the Alcaligenes esterase was identical to that of Arthrobacter 6-AHCD hydrolase (EC 3.5.2.12) and similar to that of fatty acid amide hydrolase (EC 3.5.1.4) from Rattus norvegicus, having both serine and lysine residues of the catalytic site and the consensus motif Gly-X-Ser-X-Gly. ::: ::: ::: ::: Conclusion: The stereo-selective hydrolytic activity was found in Alcaligenes sp. NBRC14130 by screening of ethyl chrysanthemate-hydrolysing activity in micro-organisms, and the purified esterase also acted on fatty acid esters and amides. ::: ::: ::: ::: Significance and Impact of the Study: This study has demonstrated that there are great differences in the enzymatic properties, amino acid sequence and catalytic motif of esterases in both Alcaligenes and Arthrobacter globiformis with excellent stereo-selectivity for (+)-trans-ethyl chrysanthemate, but the amino acid sequence of Alcaligenes esterase is identical to that of Arthrobacter 6-AHCD hydrolase.
The characteristics of pure α- and β-form of the cyclic dimer (1,8-diazacyclotetradecane-2,9-dione) were systematically and integrally investigated during this study. The results showed that the α-...
The characteristics of pure a-and b-form of the cyclic dimer (1,8-diazacyclotetradecane-2,9-dione) were systematically and integrally investigated during this study. The results showed that the a-form could dissolve and rapidly transform into the b-form in methanol, and in caprolactam solution at a lower temperature, an interesting transition occurred and formed coprecipitates, which refract colourful light under PLM. However, these dimers can aggregate in water, and they are then transformed into multi-slice layers and compact structures. The detailed transition behaviours between the two forms were further measured by FT-IR, XRD and DSC by varying the temperature from 258C to 3608C, respectively, which showed that there are two endothermic transitions over the course of the heating programme. At a temperature of approximately 2428C, the b crystals were initially converted into a crystals, and then they melted when the temperature reached over 3458C. A video recorded under a light microscope also showed that the sublimation of the b cyclic dimer occurred after the transition. However, the a-form might sublimate at temperatures lower than 1508C when mixed with volatile matter.
