Hemerocallis plantlets maintained in vitro for extended periods of time in tightly closed culture vessels frequently show a phenotype, albeit on a miniaturized scale, typical of more mature, field-grown plants. The positive relationship of elevated ethylene in the headspace of such vessels to the phase shift from juvenile to mature form is established. Rigorous restriction in air exchange with the external environment by means of silicone grease seals hastens the phase change and improves uniformity of response. Although some plantlets may take longer to accumulate enough ethylene in sealed jars to undergo change, added ethylene and ethylene-releasing agents promote it. Ethylene adsorbants (e.g. mercuric perchlorate) block the shift of juvenile to mature form. Critical ambient ethylene level for the shift is ca 1 μl l−1. Levels up to 1000 μl l−1 do not hasten the response but are not toxic. The phase change is fully reversible when air exchange permits ethylene to drop below 1 μl l−1. At least 1 μl l−1 ethylene is required to sustain the mature phenotype. The ethylene synthesis inhibitor aminoethoxyvinylglycine (AVG) prevents the phase change, while the ethylene biosynthesis intermediate 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACC) improves it. KOH, as a CO2 absorbant, does not prevent the phase change. Histology sections demonstrate subtle changes in the form of shoot tips of plantlets undergoing phase change.
Activation of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors is known to produce arachidonic acid release, which has been implicated in excitotoxicity. Antagonists and partial agonists at the glycine site of the NMDA receptor, despite exhibiting functional differences in electrophysiological studies, inhibit glutamate-induced neurotoxicity and ischemia-induced neurodegeneration. The objective of this study was to investigate the effects of both glycine site antagonists and partial agonists on NMDA receptor-mediated [3H]arachidonic acid (AA) release evoked by glutamate, NMDA or a competitive inhibitor of the glutamate/aspartate uptake carrier. The [3H]AA release evoked by a maximally effective concentration of glutamate (100 μM) was blocked by the glycine site antagonists 7-chlorokynurenic acid (7-CKYN) and 5,7- dichlorokynurenic acid (5,7-DCKYN) and by a low intrinsic efficacy glycine partial agonist (+)-1-hydroxy-3-aminopyrrolid-2-one [(+)-HA-966]. 1-Aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC), a high intrinsic efficacy glycine partial agonist, did not modify [3H]AA release evoked by 100 μM glutamate. However, ACPC blocked (in a glycine reversible manner) the [3H]AA release induced by NMDA (100 μM) with an IC50 of 131 ± 2 μM. Furthermore,l- trans -pyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylate (PDC), a competitive inhibitor of the glutamate transporter, also released [3H]AA (Emax and EC50 of 127 ± 4% and 30 ± 1 μM, respectively). ACPC, 7-CKYN and (±)-2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoic acid (AP-7), a competitive NMDA receptor antagonist, inhibited [3H]AA release evoked by PDC. These results demonstrate that both glycine site antagonists and partial agonists can inhibit NMDA receptor-mediated [3H]AA release in cerebellar granule cells, an action consistent with the neuroprotective effects of these compounds.
Oxidation of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid by O2 in the presence of 1-benzyl-3-carbamoyl-1,4-dihydropyridine, Mn(II) ion, and flavin mononucleotide reproduced the biological ethylene forming reaction in plant tissues with respect to products, stereochemistry, and behavior to inhibitors.
Exposing roots of plants to hypoxic conditions is known to greatly improve their anoxic stress tolerance. We previously showed that pre-treatment of wheat seedlings with an ethylene precursor, 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACC), enhanced their tolerance of oxygen-deficient conditions. Although ACC-pretreated seminal roots of wheat seedlings grown under oxygen-deficient conditions avoided root tip death, they elongated very little. In the present study, we assessed the effects of ethylene on the responses of adventitious roots of wheat seedlings to oxygen-deficient conditions. Lysigenous aerenchyma formation in the adventitious roots of wheat seedlings pretreated with ACC appeared to reduce tip death under oxygen-deficient conditions, but the adventitious roots, like the seminal roots, hardly elongated. We also found that adventitious roots that emerge in oxygen-deficient conditions continued to elongate even under such conditions. The adventitious roots emerged in oxygen-deficient conditions were found to have thicker root diameters than those emerged in aerated conditions. These results suggest that the adventitious roots with thicker root diameters can better cope with oxygen-deficient conditions. Measurements of the area of the lysigenous aerenchyma confirmed that the increased root diameters have a greater amount of air space generated by lysigenous aerenchyma formation.
Our recently reported titanium-mediated transformation of N,N-dialkylcarboxamides to cyclopropylamines has been applied to N,N-dibenzyl-2-benzyloxyacetamide using a variety of alkylmagnesium bromides to yield 1-(benzyloxymethyl)-1-(dibenzylamino)cyclopropane (15a, 48%) and 2-substituted analogs 15b−f (33−48%). These have been transformed in just a few steps into N-Boc-protected methyl esters of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (1, 29% overall), coronamic acid (2, 35%) and norcoronamic acid (21%), 2,3-methanoglutamic acid (21g, 19%) and 2,3-methanoornithine (21l, 12%). Similarly, the corresponding derivatives of 3,4-methano-γ-aminobutyric acid (26, 23%) and 4-spirocyclopropane-γ-butyrolactam (32, 44%) have been synthesized.
Abstract In this paper we examined the effect of flumazenil (Ro 15-1788, 10 mg/kg), a benzodiazepine receptor antagonist, on the anticonflict activity of dl -(E)-2-amino-4-methyl-5-phosphono-3-pentenoic acid (CGP 37849), a competitive N-methyl- d -aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, and 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC), a partial agonist at glycineB receptors, in the Vogel conflict drinking test in rats. The effect of flumazenil on the anxiolytic-like (in the plus-maze test) and the anticonvulsant (in the maximal electroshock-induced seizures) activities of CGP 37849 in rats was also studied. Diazepam was used as a reference drug. CGP 37849 (2.5–5 mg/kg), ACPC (50–200 mg/kg) and diazepam (2.5–5 mg/kg) significantly and dose-dependently increased the number of shocks accepted during experimental sessions in the conflict drinking test. Flumazenil partly but significantly reduced the anticonflict effect of CGP 37849, and it fully blocked the anticonflict effect of ACPC and diazepam. CGP 37849 (2.5–5 mg/kg) and diazepam (2.5–5 mg/kg) were also active in the plus-maze test, as they significantly increased the percentage of the time spent in and entries into the open arms of the plus-maze, both those effects having been antagonized by flumazenil. Flumazenil alone was inactive in both the conflict drinking and the plus-maze tests. In the maximal electroshock-induced seizures, both CGP 37849 (2.5–5 mg/kg) and diazepam (5–10 mg/kg) produced anticonvulsant effects, of which only that of diazepam was antagonized by flumazenil. The results of the present study showing antagonism of flumazenil towards the anxiolytic-like effects of CGP 37849 and ACPC suggest involvement of benzodiazepine receptors in such an activity of the NMDA and glycineB receptor ligands, respectively, which may be due to a possible interaction between NMDA and GABA/benzodiazepine systems. The lack of effect of the benzodiazepine antagonist on the anticonvulsant activity of CGP 37849 indicates that involvement of benzodiazepine receptors in the pharmacological action of the NMDA antagonist is not a general phenomenon.
Chronic (14 daily injections) treatment of mice with the prototypic tricyclic antidepressant imipramine significantly alters ligand binding to the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor complex. These effects were compared to a chronic regimen of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid, a high-affinity partial agonist at strychnine-insensitive glycine receptors which mimics the effects of imipramine in preclinical models predictive of antidepressant action. Changes in the NMDA receptor complex after chronic, but not acute treatment with imipramine were manifested as: 1) a reduction in the potency of glycine to inhibit [3H]5,7-dichlorokynurenic acid binding to strychnine-insensitive glycine receptors; 2) a decrease in the proportion of high-affinity glycine sites inhibiting [3H]CGP 39653 binding to NMDA receptors; and 3) a decrease in basal [3H]MK-801 binding (under nonequilibrium conditions) to sites within NMDA receptor-coupled cation channels which was reversible by the addition of glutamate. These effects were observed in cerebral cortex, but not in hippocampus, striatum or basal forebrain. Chronic treatment with 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid resulted in changes which paralleled those of imipramine on ligand binding to the NMDA receptor complex, but the reduction in basal [3H]MK-801 binding did not achieve statistical significance. These findings indicate that adaptive changes in the NMDA receptor complex could be a feature common to chronic treatment with structurally unrelated antidepressants.
1-aminocyclobutanecarboxylic acid ACPC 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid AMPA a-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid ATPO (S)-2-amino-3-[5-tert-butyl-3-(phosphonomethoxy)-4-isoxazolyl]propionic acid iGluR glutamate receptor ion channel DNQX 6,7-Dinitro-2,3-quinoxalinedione NMDA N-methyl-D-aspartic acid TARP transmembrane AMPA receptor regulatory protein
The preparation of protected 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid was performed from readily available and inexpensive start-ing materials, using titanium-catalyzed cyclopropanation as the key step. As an extension of this methodology, a diastereoselective synthesis of the cis-2-vinyl-substituted analogue is presented.
Abstract The structural stability of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid was investigated at DFT-BLYP, DFT-B3LYP and ab initio MP2 levels of theory with 6-311G** basis set. The molecule was predicted at the three levels of calculation to exist in cis-syn ⇔ trans-syn conformational equilibrium. The equilibrium constants for the conformational interconversion were calculated and found to correspond to an equilibrium mixture of about 35% cis-syn and 65% trans-syn conformations at 298.15 K. The cis–trans rotational barrier and the NH2 syn-anti inversion barrier were estimated to be about 6 and 7 kcal/mol, respectively. The O–H rotational barrier was calculated to be of the order 12–14 kcal/mol. The vibrational frequencies of the two stable conformers of the acid were computed at the BLYP and the B3LYP levels of theory. Only vibrational assignments were provided for the low energy trans-syn conformer on the basis of normal coordinate analysis and experimental data. No clear evidence was found for the presence of the second high energy cis-syn structure in the spectra of the molecule.
Abstract The effects of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid were investigated on performance in an elevated plus-maze. This compound is a high-affinity, partial agonist ligand at strychnine-insensitive glycine receptors of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor complex. Like chlordiazepoxide, 1-aminocyclopropanecarbonxylic acid increased in a dose-dependent manner both the percent entries into and the percent time spent in the open arms of the plus-maze. However, 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid was significantly less efficacious than chlordiazepoxide in these measures and increased, while chlordiazepoxide decreased, the time spent in the middle platform of the plus-maze. These findings indicate that ligands acting through strychnine-insensitive glycine receptors on the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor complex may represent a new class of anxiolytic agents with a profile which differs from the benzodiazepines.
A series of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid derivatives and analogues have been synthesised as potential inhibitors of carboxypeptidase A. Whereas simple cyclopropylcarboxamido derivatives of Gly, Phe and Pro showed no indications of time-dependent, irreversible inhibition, benzamido-1-aminocyclopropane carboxamido-Phe and Pro were characterised as latent inhibitors. The former was also a substrate for carboxypeptidase A but the latter was purely an inhibitor. This behaviour suggested that cyclopropylketones should also be inhibitors of carboxypeptidase A; this suggestion was confirmed experimentally. Kinetic experiments showed surprisingly that the rate of inhibition is increased in the presence of substrate, hippurylphenylalanine. Related secondary alcohols also acted as time-dependent inhibitors. The results are evaluated in the context of current views on the mechanism of action of carboxypeptidase A.
Untreated mung bean hypocotyls produced very little C(2)H(4) but, upon treatment with 10 millimolar Cu(2+) or 10 millimolar Cu(2+) + 10 millimolar Ca(2+), C(2)H(4) production increased 20- and 40-fold, respectively, within 6 hours. This increase in C(2)H(4) production was preceded and paralleled by an increase in 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACC) content, but the level of S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) was unaffected, suggesting that the conversion of SAM to ACC is a key reaction in the production of wound-induced C(2)H(4). This view was further supported by the observation that application of aminoethoxyvinylglycine, a known inhibitor of the conversion of SAM to ACC, eliminated the increases in ACC formation and in C(2)H(4) production. A significant increase in C(2)H(4) production was observed in the albedo tissue of orange in response to excision, and it was paralleled by an increase in ACC content. In columella tissue of unripe green tomato fruit, massive increases in the C(2)H(4) production rate (from 0 to 12 nanoliters per gram per hour), in ACC content (from 0.05 to 12 nmoles per gram), and in ACC synthase activity (from 0 to 6.4 units per milligram protein) occurred during the 9-hour incubation period following excision. Infiltration with 0.1 millimolar cycloheximide, an inhibitor of protein synthesis, completely blocked wound-induced C(2)H(4) production, ACC formation, and development of ACC synthase activity. These data indicate that wounding induces the synthesis of ACC synthase, which is the rate-controlling enzyme in the pathway of C(2)H(4) biosynthesis and, thereby, causes accumulation of ACC and increase in C(2)H(4) production.
Abstract Activation of N -methyl- d -aspartate (NMDA) receptors has been hypothesized to mediate certain forms of learning and memory. This hypothesis is based on the ability of competitive and uncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonists to disrupt learning. We investigated the effects of glycine site antagonists and partial agonists on deficits of acquisition (learning) and consolidation (memory) in a single trial inhibitory avoidance learning paradigm. Posttraining administration of either hypoxia (exposure to 7% oxygen) or the convulsant drug pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) (45 mg/kg) to mice impaired consolidation without producing neuronal cell death. Pretreatment with the competitive glycine antagonist 7-chlorokynurenic acid (7KYN) and the glycine partial agonists 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC) and (+)HA-966 prevented memory deficits induced by hypoxia and PTZ, but did not affect scopolamine-induced learning impairment. In addition, ACPC prevented consolidation deficits evoked by a nonexcitotoxic concentration of l - trans -pyrrolidine-2, 4-dicarboxylate, a competitive inhibitor of glutamate transport that increases extracellular levels of glutamate. Moreover, (+)HA-966, 7KYN, and ACPC facilitated both acquisition and consolidation of inhibitory avoidance training, an effect that was dose-dependent and reversed by glycine. These results indicate that memory deficits induced by both hypoxia and PTZ involve NMDA receptor activation. Furthermore, the present findings demonstrate that glycine site antagonists and partial agonists prevent memory deficits of inhibitory avoidance learning by affecting consolidation, but not acquisition processes.
Activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors has been hypothesized to mediate certain forms of learning and memory. This hypothesis is based on the ability of competitive and uncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonists to disrupt learning. We investigated the effects of glycine site antagonists and partial agonists on deficits of acquisition (learning) and consolidation (memory) in a single trial inhibitory avoidance learning paradigm. Posttraining administration of either hypoxia (exposure to 7% oxygen) or the convulsant drug pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) (45 mg/kg) to mice impaired consolidation without producing neuronal cell death. Pretreatment with the competitive glycine antagonist 7-chlorokynurenic acid (7KYN) and the glycine partial agonists 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC) and (ϩ)HA-966 prevented memory deficits induced by hypoxia and PTZ, but did not affect scopolamine-induced learning impairment. In addition, ACPC prevented consolidation deficits evoked by a nonexcitotoxic concentration of Ltrans-pyrrolidine-2, 4-dicarboxylate, a competitive inhibitor of glutamate transport that increases extracellular levels of glutamate. Moreover, (ϩ)HA-966, 7KYN, and ACPC facilitated both acquisition and consolidation of inhibitory avoidance training, an effect that was dose-dependent and reversed by glycine. These results indicate that memory deficits induced by both hypoxia and PTZ involve NMDA receptor activation. Furthermore, the present findings demonstrate that glycine site antagonists and partial agonists prevent memory deficits of inhibitory avoidance learning by affecting consolidation, but not acquisition processes. ᭧
The present invention relates to a novel process for preparing 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid hydrochloride (ACCxHCl) of the formula ACCxHCl is prepared from a cyclopropane-1,1-dicarboxylic acid diester via an 1-aminocarbonylcyclopropanecarboxylic acid ester intermediate and an alkali metal salt or alkaline earth metal salt of 1-aminocarbonylcyclopropanecarboxylic acid. The process represents a simplification and gives improved product yields.
Pd(0) Complex prepared from Pd(dba)2 and chiral quinolinyl-oxazoline ligand can catalyze alkylation and cyclization reaction of 1, 4-dichlorobut-2-ene 1 with anion of N-(di- phenylmethylene)amino acetonitrile 2 to provide (E)-2-ethenyl-1-N-(diphenylmethylene) amino cyclopropane carbonitrile 3 with 100% de and 20% ee. Reduction of (E)-3 by diimide followed by acidic hydrolysis afforded (1S, 2S)-2-ethyl-1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid 9, a natural product coronamic acid.
THE effect of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC) on the potentiation by glycine of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-evoked increases in intracellular free calcium concentration [Ca 2+ ] i was examined in cultured rat cerebellar granule cells. NMDA (50 μM) produced a rapid and sustained increase in [Ca 2+ ] i from 72 ±3 to 205 ±18 nM. Addition of exogenous glycine potentiated (EC 50 ∼2 μM) the effects of NMDA, increasing [Ca 2+ ] i to an E max of 323 ± 5nM. ACPC increased the EC 50 of glycine from 2 μM (no ACPC) to 17 μM (400 μM ACPC). Concomitant with reduced potency of glycine, ACPC also inhibited the E max of glycine to enhance NMDA-evoked cytosolic free calcium to values (224 ± 1 nM) approaching those observed in the nominal absence of glycine. These results show that ACPC, a compound previously reported to prevent excitotoxic cell death, inhibits the glycine-induced increase of Ca 2+ entry through NMDA receptors in cerebellar granule cells.
Of primary interest in the present report was the earlier finding that MK-801, a non-competitive channel blocker with high affinity for the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptor (Halliwell et al. 1989; Wong et al. 1986 ), dosedependently reduced nicotine CS-evoked conditioned responding without affecting chamber activity (Murray and Bevins 2007a) . The finding in the DGT task was particularly interesting given that pretreatment with MK-801 has not been found to block nicotine's control of responding in the two-lever operant drug discrimination task (Kim and Brioni 1995; Zakharova et al. 2005 ; see Zaniewska et al. (2008) for tests with agmatine). One possible explanation for this distinction is that the neurobiological mechanism underlying the CS effects of nicotine (DGT) differ somewhat from those mediating its discriminative stimulus effects in the two-lever task (cf. Murray et al. 2009b) . If this hypothesis is correct, then more selective NMDA receptor antagonists should also block conditioned responding evoked by nicotine in the DGT task and provide additional information about the mechanism of the effect. As the NMDA receptor complex involves multiple subtypes and binding sites, we tested a variety of ligands with varying specificity to isolate the mechanism of this reduction in conditioned responding. Accordingly, in Experiment 1 we tested a slightly lower affinity NMDA channel blocker, phencyclidine (PCP; Wong et al. 1986 ), followed by competitive antagonists that bind to the NMDA but not the glycine/D-serine binding site on the NMDA receptor, CGP 39551 and d-CPPene (Fagg et al. 1990; Lowe et al. 1994) , and a competitive antagonist specific to the presynaptic NR2B binding subtype, Ro 25-6981 (Fischer et al. 1997) . We also tested L-701,324, an antagonist with specificity for the glycine/D-serine binding site of the NMDA receptor (Bristow et al. 1995) , and 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid hydrochloride (ACPC), a glycine/D-serine agonist with NMDA site antagonist actions (Sheinin et al. 2002) , for antagonism and/or substitution for the CS effects of nicotine.
High resolution mass measurements, defocused metastable ion detection and deuterium labeling experiments have been employed in an investigation of the electron-impact induced decomposition of a series of carbocyclic amino acids, which varied in ring size from three to eight carbon atoms. About 50 per cent of the total ion current is carried by [M COOH]+ ions in the spectra obtained from compounds with five to eight carbon atoms in the ring. This is analogous to the fragmentation of the open chain naturally occurring amino acids. The behavior of the compounds with the two smallest rings is anomalous, reflecting to a larger extent the influence of the ring itself. Special attention has been given the loss of H2O and NH4 from ionized species of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid.
α-Alkoxy, amino-, and thio nitriles undergo a Ti(II)-mediated coupling with Grignard reagents to afford heterofunctionalized cyclopropylamines. A chelation effect appears to be generally responsible for the spontaneous contraction of the intermediate azatitanacycle leading to cyclopropane. By using the described reaction, 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acids were prepared in four steps, in good overall yields, from the readily available benzyloxyacetonitrile.
The present studies assessed the effects of both systemic and intraaccumbens injections of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC), and NMDA partial agonist, on ethanol consumption in a limited access procedure in Wistar rats. Systemically administered ACPC reduced ethanol consumption in a dose-dependent manner, while a single dose of ACPC administered bilaterally into the nucleus accumbens also reversibly reduced ethanol consumption. Indirect measures of general appetitive behavior showed no effect of ACPC on weight or water intake, which suggests that this effect of ACPC may be specific to ethanol. These data are compatible with the role of NMDA receptors in modulating ethanol consumption and provide the first data showing that ACPC can reduce ethanol consumption. ACPC has neuroprotective effects and does not show the psychotomimetic effects observed with NMDA receptor agents. Thus, ACPC may be helpful in future clinical studies designed to reduce alcohol use.
Compounds that reduce ion flux through N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) coupled cation channels were evaluated for their effects on rat pup ultrasonic vocalizations (USV). Previous studies have demonstrated that rat pups emit ultrasonic calls during social isolation and that several classes of anxiolytics decrease, while putative anxiogenics increase, the number of these calls. The competitive NMDA antagonists 2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoic acid (AP-7) and (+/-)-3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid [+/-)-CPP) as well as a partial agonist at the strychnine-insensitive glycine receptor, 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC), reduced USV at doses that did not affect either motor activity or core temperature. A dose of glycine sufficient to elevate hippocampal glycine concentrations by 85% antagonized the effects of ACPC, but not AP-7. Glycine alone did not alter USV, but NMDA when given by itself increased USV by almost 50% at subconvulsant doses. Moreover, a dose of NMDA that did not affect USV antagonized the effects of AP-7 but not ACPC. Taken together, these findings are consistent with previous studies using conflict procedures which indicate that agents which reduce activity at NMDA receptor coupled cation channels may constitute a new class of anxiolytic agents.
The derivatives of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACC) over recent decades have attracted close attention from synthetic chemists owing to their high physiological activity as plant growth regulators, conformationally rigid analogs of natural amino acids, and peptidomimetics. The present review considers contemporary approaches to the methods of preparation of amino acids of the ACC series, namely, the alkylation of glycine equivalents with 1,2-electrophiles, the intramolecular cyclization of γ-substituted amino acid derivatives, alkene cyclopropanation under the action of diazo compounds, ylides, and carbene intermediates, as well as other synthetic approaches.
Abstract Background: The chemical mechanism of the final step of ethylene biosynthesis (the conversion of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid, ACC 1 to ethylene by ACC oxidase, the ethylene-forming enzyme, EFE) is poorly understood. Two possibilities have been suggested: a radical mechanism and an N -hydroxylation mechanism. We investigated reaction pathways available to radical intermediates in this reaction using an ACC analog, 1-aminocyclobutanecarboxylic acid (ACBC) as a substrate. Results: ACBC was converted to dehydroproline (A 1 -pyrroline-2-carboxylic acid) by the EFE via a ring expansion process. The possibility that an N -hydroxy-aminoacid (produced during two-electron oxidation) acts as an intermediate in this process was eliminated by control experiments. Chemical model reactions involving two-electron oxidants, such as a positive halogen (X + ) which presumably generate N-halo derivatives, produce only decarboxylation products. Radical-based oxidants, in contrast, generate dehydroproline. Model reactions involving sequential single-electron transfer mechanisms also produce dehydroproline; thus our results support the proposal that the EFE-catalyzed step of ethylene biosynthesis proceeds using a radical-based mechanism. Conclusions: Our results provide support for a radical mechanism in the final step of ethylene biosynthesis and refute an alternative N -hydroxylation mechanism. This work extends the idea that the intrinsic chemical reactivity of a high energy iron—oxo intermediate can account for the observed products in ethylene biosynthesis.
Peanut seeds (Arachis hypogea L. Yue-you 551) contain 50 to 100 nanomoles per gram conjugated 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACC). Based on paper chromatography, paper electrophoresis, and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry, it was verified that the major ACC conjugate was N-malonyl-ACC (MACC). Germinating peanut seeds converted [2-(14)C]ACC to ethylene 70 times more efficiently than N-malonyl-[2-(14)C]ACC; when ACC was administered, most of it was metabolized to MACC. Germinating peanut seeds produced ethylene and converted l-[3,4-(14)C]methionine to ethylene; this ethylene biosynthesis was inhibited by aminoethoxyvinylglycine. These data indicate that MACC occurs in peanut seeds but does not serve as the source of ethylene during germination; ethylene is, however, synthesized from methionine via ACC.
1-Aminocyclopropanecarboxylic Acid, an Antagonist of N -Methyl- D -Aspartate Receptors, Causes Hypotensive and Antioxidant Effects with Upregulation of Heme Oxygenase-1 in Stroke-Prone Spontaneously Hypertensive Rats
1-Aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC) has been shown to protect neurons against glutamate-induced neurotoxicity by reducing N-methyl-D-aspartate
Many studies have demonstrated that the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor has important cardiovascular effects, such as regulation of mean arterial pressure and splanchnic sympathetic nerve activity (1-4). 1-Aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC) has been shown to inhibit NMDA receptor activity by acting as a glycine-binding site partial agonist and a glutamate-site antagonist (5) . A recent study demonstrated that ACPC partially activates the NMDA receptor at the NR1 subunit, resulting in an 80% increase of its activity, and the cocrystal structure of the NR1 ligandbinding core with ACPA shows the same degree of domain closure as found in the complex with glycine (6) . ACPC has also been shown to prevent glutamate neurotoxicity in various animal models (7) (8) (9) (10) . Chronic administration of ACPC differentially alters the expression of NMDA receptor subunit mRNAs in the cerebral cortex and in the hippocampus of mice (10) . ACPC also induces a significant decrease in the expression of neuropeptide Y and corticoliberin in amygdala nerve cells (11) , and blocks the arachidonic acid release induced by NMDA (12) .
Increasing efforts are being invested in the construction of nanostructures with desired shapes and physical and chemical properties. Our strategy involves nanostructure design using naturally occurring protein building blocks. Inspection of the protein structural database (PDB) reveals the richness of the conformations, shapes, and chemistries of proteins and their building blocks. To increase the population of the native fold in the selected building block, we mutate natural residues by engineered, constrained residues that restrict the conformational freedom at the targeted site and have favorable interactions, geometry, and size. Here, as a model system, we construct nanotubes using building blocks from left-handed beta-helices which are commonly occurring repeat protein architectures. We pick two-turn beta-helical segments, duplicate and stack them, and using all-atom molecular dynamics simulations (MD) with explicit solvent probe the structural stability of these nanotubular structures as indicated by their capacity to retain the initial organization and their conformational dynamics. Comparison of the results for the wild-type and mutated sequences shows that the introduction of the conformationally restricted 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (Ac3c) residue in loop regions greatly enhances the stability of beta-helix nanotubes. The Ac3c geometrical confinement effect is sequence-specific and position-specific. The achievement of high stability of nanotubular structures originates not only from the reduction of mobility at the mutation site induced by Ac3c but also from stabilizing association forces between building blocks such as hydrogen bonds and hydrophobic contacts. For the selected synthetic residue, similar size, hydrophobicity, and backbone conformational tendencies are desirable as in the Ac3c.
Chronic dosing with the glycine partial NMDA agonist, 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC) elicited an altered allosteric regulation of cortical NMDA receptor binding. The present study hypothesized that these allosteric receptor binding changes would be manifest as pharmacologically functional reductions in NMDA receptor activity following chronic ACPC dosing. NMDA inhibition of carbachol-induced phosphoinositide (PI) hydrolysis was used as a functional assay to assess NMDA receptor function in rat cerebral cortex. NMDA inhibition of stimulated PI turnover was similar in naive (46% +/- 4.5%; mean +/- SE; n = 34) and ACPC dosed rats (39% +/- 2.3%; n = 34). While ACPC reversed NMDA's inhibitory effects in naive rats (80% +/- 13%; n = 9), it was ineffective (P < 0.05) in ACPC pretreated rats (48% +/- 9.8%; n = 9). In contrast, the NMDA antagonists, MK-801 (ion channel), 7-chlorokynurenic acid (glycine site) and AP-7 (glutamate site), effectively reversed NMDA's inhibitory effects in naive and ACPC treated rats. The potency of these antagonists were unaltered by prior ACPC dosing. Thus, chronic ACPC therapy does not alter the functioning of the NMDA ion channel or glutamate receptor sites, but elicits functional tolerance to ACPC's actions in the cortical NMDA complex.
To examine the role of glycineB receptors in the stimulus effects induced by psychostimulants, separate groups of rats were trained to discriminate amphetamine (AMPH; 1 mg/kg) from saline (SAL), or cocaine (COC; 10 mg/kg) from SAL, using a two-lever operant procedure. Substitution studies showed that neither 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC; 200 mg/kg) nor 7-chloro-4-hydroxy-3-(3-phenoxy)phenyl-(H)quinolone (L-701,324; 3 mg/kg), being a partial agonist or an antagonist at glycineB receptors, respectively, generalized for the training drugs. Combination tests of glycineB ligands demonstrated that injection of a fixed dose of ACPC (200 mg/kg) or L-701,324 (3 mg/kg) together with different doses of AMPH or COC practically did not modify dose-response curves of the psychostimulants, nor did it affect their ED50 values. Our results indicate that glycineB receptors do not play a role in the discriminative effects of AMPH and COC.
Abstract Major depression is a common, recurrent mental illness that affects millions of people worldwide. Recently, a unique fast neuroprotective and antidepressant treatment effect has been observed by ketamine, which acts via the glutamatergic system. Hence, a steady accumulation of evidence supporting a role for the excitatory amino acid neurotransmitter (EAA) glutamate in the treatment of depression has been observed in the last years. Emerging evidence indicates that N -methyl- d -aspartate (NMDA), group 1 metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonists and α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) agonists have antidepressant properties. Indeed, treatment with NMDA receptor antagonists has shown the ability to sprout new synaptic connections and reverse stress-induced neuronal changes. Based on glutamatergic signaling, a number of therapeutic drugs might gain interest in the future. Several compounds such as ketamine, memantine, amantadine, tianeptine, pioglitazone, riluzole, lamotrigine, AZD6765, magnesium, zinc, guanosine, adenosine aniracetam, traxoprodil (CP-101,606), MK-0657, GLYX-13, NRX-1047, Ro25-6981, LY392098, LY341495, d -cycloserine, d -serine, dextromethorphan, sarcosine, scopolamine, pomaglumetad methionil, LY2140023, LY404039, MGS0039, MPEP, 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid, all of which target this system, have already been brought up, some of them recently. Drugs targeting the glutamatergic system might open up a promising new territory for the development of drugs to meet the needs of patients with major depression.
[reaction: see text] The first cyclopropanation reaction of olefins with Fischer dialkylaminocarbene complexes is presented. The reaction yields 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid derivatives in a single step, usually with high diastereoselectivity. An approach to the asymmetric version of this reaction is also presented. The synthetic utility of the procedure is exemplified by the synthesis of both cycles of metanoproline in a single step. In addition, the synthesis of the first Fischer carbene containing a halocarbonyl group is reported.
1-Aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC) has been shown to protect against neuronal cell death after ischemic insult in vivo. Such results can be correlated with in vitro assays in which ACPC protected neurons against glutamate-induced neurotoxicity by reducing the activity of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) channel activation. Electrophysiological studies have determined that ACPC inhibits NMDA receptor activity by acting as a glycine-binding site partial agonist. In this study, rapid drug perfusion combined with whole-cell voltage-clamp was used to elicit and measure the effects of ACPC on NMDA receptor-mediated responses from cultured hippocampal neurons and cerebellar granule cells. The ACPC steady-state dose-response curve had both stimulatory and inhibitory phases. Half-maximal activation by ACPC as a glycine-site agonist was 0.7 to 0.9 microM. Half-maximal inhibition by ACPC was dependent on NMDA concentration. Peak responses to a >100 microM ACPC pulse in the presence of 1 microM glutamate were similar to those of glycine but decayed to a steady-state amplitude below that of glycine. The removal of ACPC initially caused an increase in inward current followed by a subsequent decrease to baseline levels. This suggests that relief of low-affinity antagonism occurs before high-affinity agonist dissociation. Simulations of ACPC action by a two glutamate-binding site/two glycine-binding site model for NMDA channel activation in conjunction with the concurrent role of ACPC as a glycine-site full agonist and glutamate-site competitive antagonist were able to successfully approximate experimental results.
Exposing plants to hypoxic conditions greatly improves their anoxic stress tolerance by enhancing the activities of glycolysis and fermentation in roots. Ethylene may also be involved in these adaptive responses because its synthesis is increased in roots under hypoxic conditions. Here it is reported that pre-treatment of wheat seedlings with an ethylene precursor, 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACC), enhanced accumulation of ethylene in the roots of wheat seedlings, and enhanced their tolerance of oxygen-deficient conditions through increasing the expression of genes encoding ethanol fermentation enzymes, alcohol dehydrogenase and pyruvate decarboxylase, in the roots. Lysigenous aerenchyma formation in root was induced by ACC pre-treatment and was further induced by growth under oxygen-deficient conditions. ACC pre-treatment increased the expression of three genes encoding respiratory burst oxidase homologue (a plant homologue of gp91 phox in NADPH oxidase), which has a role in the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), in roots of seedlings. Co-treatment with ACC and an NADPH oxidase inhibitor, diphenyleneiodonium, partly suppressed the ACC-induced responses. These results suggest that ethylene and ROS are involved in adaptation of wheat seedlings to oxygen-deficient conditions through controlling lysigenous aerenchyma formation and the expression of genes encoding ethanol fermentation enzymes.
In the mammalian brain, the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of glutamate receptor is coupled to a cation channel and a strychnine-insensitive glycine receptor. The present paper demonstrates the presence of NMDA receptor-coupled strychnine-insensitive glycine receptors in embryonic chick retina. Both glycine and 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC) exhibited similar potencies (271 +/- 39 vs 247 +/- 39 nM, respectively) as inhibitors of strychnine-insensitive [3H]glycine binding to retinal membranes. Moreover, glycine and ACPC enhanced [3H]MK-801 binding to sites within the NMDA-coupled cation channel in retinal membranes with potencies comparable to those reported in rat brain. While the potency of ACPC was significantly higher than glycine (EC50 54 +/- 12 vs 256 +/- 57 nM, P < 0.02) in this measure, there were no significant differences in the maximum enhancement (efficacy) of [3H]MK-801 binding by these compounds. Since glycine appears to be required for the operation of NMDA-coupled cation channels, we examined the effects of glycine and ACPC on NMDA-induced acute excytotoxicity in the 14-day embryonic chick retina. Histological evaluation of retina revealed that either ACPC (10-100 microM) or glycine (200 microM) attenuated NMDA-induced (200 microM) retinal damage and a combination of these agents produced an enhanced protection against acute NMDA toxicity. ACPC (100 microM), but not MK-801 (1 microM) also afforded a modest protection against kainate-induced (25 microM) retinal damage. These findings demonstrate that while strychnine-insensitive glycine receptors are present in embryonic chick retina, occupation of these sites does not augment the cytotoxic actions of NMDA. Moreover, the ability of ACPC and glycine to attenuate NMDA-induced cytotoxicity does not appear to be mediated through occupation of these sites.
This account presents studies on the development of a new method for the preparation of primary cyclopropylamines. The established procedure is simple and the reaction appears to be quite general. A wide range of nitriles and organomagnesium reagents can react to afford diversely substituted cyclopropylamines. Furthermore, bicyclic cyclopropylamines can be obtained via an intramolecular coupling from unsaturated nitriles. The reaction allows an easy preparation of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acids and 1-azaspirocyclic compounds bearing a cyclopropane ring. The reaction can also be applied to the preparation ofpolyfunctional and more complex organic molecules as exemplified with the synthesis of carbohydrates bearing aminocyclopropyl moieties and spirocyclopropyl pyrrolidines. During study of the title reaction, an unusual [4+1] cycloaddition reaction to afford cyclopentenylamines or cyclopentenones has been discovered and is described. 1 Introduction 2 Direct Synthesis of Cyclopropylamines from Nitriles and Grignard Reagents 3 Synthesis of Cyclopropylamines via Ligand Exchange 4 Attempt to Prepare 2-Alkenyl Cyclopropylamines from 1,3-Dienes and Nitriles: An Unusual [4+1] Assembly Reaction 5 Summary and Outlook.
Effects of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC), a partial agonist of glycine(B) receptors, on the expression and development of sensitization to the locomotor activity of amphetamine (AMPH, 2.5 mg/kg) were studied in mice. ACPC in doses of 100-400 mg/kg did not affect the expression of AMPH sensitization. Combined injections of ACPC (200-400 mg/kg) and AMPH during the development of sensitization did not change the expression of sensitization to the challenge dose of AMPH 3 days after the drug withdrawal. Acute administration of ACPC, 400 mg/kg, enhanced the locomotor hyperactivity induced by a single dose of AMPH, that effect being probably connected with its own stimulatory action of that dose of ACPC. Summing up, our results show that ACPC affects neither the development nor the expression of AMPH sensitization in mice.
Abstract A straightforward synthesis of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACC) has been developed. The key step in the synthesis is the thermal conversion of 1-t-butoxycarbonylcyclopropanecarboxylic acid to ACC.
Partial agonists at the strychnine-insensitive glycine sites coupled to N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors reduce both glutamate-induced neurotoxicity in vitro and ischemia-induced neurodegeneration in vivo. Paradoxically, sustained exposure of cultured cerebellar granule cell neurons to glycinergic ligands, including glycine and the glycine partial agonists (+/-)-3-amino-1-hydroxy-2-pyrrolidone, 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC), and D-cycloserine, attenuates the neuroprotective effects of (+/-)-3-amino-1-hydroxy-2-pyrrolidone and ACPC. In the present study, we investigated the mechanisms responsible for this attenuated neuroprotection. Three NMDA receptor-mediated responses were examined after sustained exposure to ACPC: glutamate-induced neurotoxicity, NMDA-stimulated increases in cGMP levels, and NMDA-stimulated increases in [Ca+2]i. Consistent with previous findings, coincubation with ACPC blocked glutamate-induced neurotoxicity, whereas sustained (24 hr) exposure to ACPC attenuated its protective effects. Moreover, sustained exposure to ACPC caused an apparent approximately 2-fold increase in the potency of both glutamate to act as neurotoxin and NMDA to stimulate cGMP formation. Sustained exposure to ACPC also increased NMDA-stimulated [Ca+2]i approximately 3-fold compared with control granule cell cultures but did not affect basal [Ca+2]i. This apparent increase in glutamate sensitivity may be attributable to a change in NMDA receptor subunit composition as sustained ACPC exposure resulted in a approximately 2.5-fold increase in NMDA receptor 2C RNA levels, without concomitant changes in the amounts of RNA encoding the NMDA receptor 2A, 2B, or 1 subunit. This is the first demonstration that sustained exposure to a glycinergic ligand can alter the expression of RNAs encoding NMDA receptor subunits. Because glycinergic ligands are potential clinical candidates, these results may have important implications for the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders.
Quantum mechanics methods have been applied to investigate the effects of the selective orientation of the side chains on the conformational features of cyclopropane analogues of phenylalanine. For this purpose, the conformational preferences of the N-acetyl-N'-methylamide derivative of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (Ac 3 c) have been compared to those of two stereoisomers of 1-amino-2-phenylcyclopropanecarboxylic acid: (2S,3S)c 3 Phe and (2S,3R)c 3 Phe. Geometry and vibration frequencies were calculated by the HF, B3LYP, or MP2 methods using the 6-31G(d) basis set, whereas the energy was further evaluated using, in some cases, more sophisticated methods and larger basis sets. Solvent effects were modeled by the self-consistent polarization continuum model with the HF/6-311G(d,p) method. The stereochemistry of the phenyl side chain largely influences the specific backbone...side chain interactions, which in turn affect the stability of the different conformations. Furthermore, results have been compared with recently published experimental data.
1-Aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACC) oxidase (ACO) catalyzes the conversion of ACC to ethylene, which is the major pathway for the production of endogenous ethylene in fruit. Calcium can inhibit the activity of both ACC synthase (ACS) and ACC oxidase (ACO), and the production of endogenous ethylene. Li et al. reported that calcium treatment reduced the respiration rate and ethylene release of netted melon 4 . As an essential plant nutrient, calcium is required for various structural roles in the cell wall and membranes. The study of Chardonnet et al. revealed that calcium treatment effectively inhibited the changes of cell wall components to maintain the fruit hardness of Golden Delicious apple 5 . The study of Deng et al. showed that calcium treatment reduced the activity and gene expression of cell wall degrading enzymes, to maintain the hardness of grapefruit 6 . Ethylene can accelerate the ripening process of fruit, and then ripe fruit can release a large amount of ethylene during after-ripening process 7 . 1-Methylcyclopropene (1-MCP) is an inhibitor of ethylene action in plants by competitively binding to ethylene receptor and blocking ethylene signaling, and thus inhibits after-ripening of fruit 8 . The study of Guo et al. showed that 1-MCP can decrease the respiratory rate and ethylene release of Yate kiwifruit 9 . 1-MCP can also suppress the activity of cell wall-lysing enzymes, thereby delaying the softening
To examine the roles of glycine in neurotoxicity caused by NMDA, primary rat cortical cultures were exposed to 100–300 microM NMDA plus glycine (0–3000 microM) or other glycine analogs in a simple saline solution, and toxicity was assessed by the amount of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) released from the cultures. NMDA-induced neurotoxicity was abolished by 100 microM D-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (D-APV), phencyclidine (IC50, 4.1 microM), and Mg (IC50, 7.5 mM), or by reducing [Ca]0 to 0.1 mM. NMDA-induced neurotoxicity could also be abolished by 7-chlorokynurenic acid (IC50, 8.6 microM), suggesting the presence of residual glycine in the culture medium (confirmed by high-performance liquid chromatography measurement). Moreover, in the presence of 30 microM 7-chlorokynurenic acid, glycine, D-serine, D- alanine, beta-fluoro-D-alanine, and 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid could restore the neurotoxic action of NMDA, and their relative potencies and relative efficacies were the same as measured in electrophysiological assays in Xenopus oocytes or cultured neurons. The addition of greater than 100 microM glycine doubled the excitotoxic effect of NMDA. The potency of glycine was low (EC50, 27 microM), and this effect was not due to a direct action on the NMDA receptor. The above-mentioned agonists were unable to substitute for glycine, even at high concentrations (1 mM). On the other hand, beta-alanine, taurine, and GABA (1 mM) did potentiate NMDA neurotoxicity, and strychnine (IC50, 550 nM) could greatly reduce neurotoxicity in the presence of 1 mM glycine plus 300 microM NMDA.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Abstract The crystal structures of three Schiff base metal complexes of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACC), a precursor of the plant hormone ethylene, [Cu(PLACC)(H2O)]·(NO3)·H2O (1), [Ni(PL- ACC)(H2O)2]·(NO3)·H2O(2) and [Cu(PLPACC)(H2O)]2·4H2O(3)(PL=pyridoxal and PLP =pyridoxal 5′-phosphate), have been determined by X-ray diffraction. 1 and 2 are quasi-isostructural to each other, with a minor difference in the coordination geometry, i.e. square-pyramidal copper(II) and square-bipyramidal nickel(II): the basal plane is defined by the imino nitrogen, the phenolic and the carboxylate oxygens of the Schiff base ligand, and a water molecule, and the apical position(s) occupied by the hydroxymethyl oxygen of a neighboring molecule (plus a water for 2), thus forming a one- dimensional polymer. 3 involves two crystallographically independent [Cu(PLPACC)(H2O)] structural units, A and B, which differ only in the phosphate conformation. The environment of each copper atom is similar to that in 1 except for the axial coordination of one of the phosphate oxygens of a neighboring molecule, thus creating an analogous polymeric chain structure, -A-B-A-B-. These three compounds may serve as a model for a Schiff base derived from pyridoxal and 1-aminocyclopropa- necarboxylate, a reaction intermediate in ethylene biosynthesis, in accordance with Dunathan's hypothesis. Crystallographic data: 1, space group P21/a, a=13.222(3), b=10.820(2), c=11.821(3) A, β=110.51(2)°, V=1583.9(7) A3, Z=4 and R=0.044 for 2034 observed reflections; 2, space group P21/c, a=12.896(2), b=10.667(2), c=12.628(3) A, β=111.23(2), V=1619.3(6) A3, Z=4 and R=0.043 for 1603 observed reflections; 3, space group P 1 , a=15.700(2), b=11.738(1), c=9.281(1) A3, α=98.61(1), β=97.34(1), γ=98.16(1)°, V=1654.4(3) A3, Z=2 and R=0.038 for 4732 observed reflections.
BACKGROUND ::: Postoperative paraplegia remains a serious complication after repair of a thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm. The release of the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate might be responsible for ischemic neuronal damage. We investigated the effect of 1-Aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC) on the prevention of paraplegia in a rabbit model of spinal cord ischemia. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: The infrarenal abdominal aorta was clamped in eighteen rabbits. Saline (group A), 20 mg/kg of ACPC (group B), or 10 mg/kg of ACPC (group C), was injected into the clamped aorta. The animals were neurologically evaluated by Tarlov's score. The spinal cord was obtained for histopathologic examination, including hematoxylin and eosin staining and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end-labeling (TUNEL) staining method. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Postoperative complete paraplegia with marked neuronal necrosis appeared in group A animals. Four of the six group C animals showed intact neurological function. Scattered TUNEL positive neurons were seen within areas containing necrotic cells in sections from paraplegic animals in group A. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: ACPC can prevent spinal cord injury in a rabbit model of spinal cord ischemia.
Peanutseeds(Arachis hypogea L.Yue-you 551) contain 50to100 nanomoles pergramconjugated 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACC). Basedonpaperchromatography, paperelectrophoresis, andgas chromatography-mass spectrometry, itwasverified that themajor ACC conjugate wasN-malonyl-ACC (MACC). Germinating peanut seeds converted 12-14CIACC toethylene 70times moreefficiently thanN-malonyl12-14CIACC; whenACCwasadministered, mostofitwasmetabolized to MACC.Germinating peanut seeds produced ethylene andconverted L13,4-14Clmethionine toethylene; this ethylene biosynthesis wasinhibited byaminoethoxyvinylglycine. Thesedataindicate thatMACC occursin peanut seeds butdoesnotserveasthesourceofethylene during germination; ethylene is, however, synthesized frommethionine viaACC.
Using pyrabactin which has the same receptor as abscisic acid(ABA) as the lead compound,seventeen arylamido-cyclopropanecarboxylic acid compounds were designed and synthesized by replaced 2-Picolylamine with 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid.Among them thirteen novel title compounds have not been reported in the literatures.Their structures were confirmed by 1H NMR,IR spectra and HRMS.The preliminary bioassay revealed that the most compounds showed the bioactivity of delaying germination.In particular,the compounds B4,B8 and B11 showed the better bioactivity than ABA at the concentration of 5 000 μmol/L in wheat.
RationaleIn addition to the negative and positive symptoms of schizophrenia, cognitive deficits, including prefrontal cortical dysfunction, are now recognized as core features of this disorder. Compounds increasing the NMDA receptor function via the strychnine-insensitive glycine receptors have been proposed as potential antipsychotics. Depending on the ambient concentrations of glutamate and glycine, 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC) behaves as either a partial agonist or a functional antagonist at the strychnine-insensitive glycine receptors.ObjectivesWe investigated the procognitive and antipsychotic-like effects of ACPC in rats treated with phencyclidine (PCP) or ketamine (KET), compounds that produce psychotic-like symptoms in humans and laboratory animals.MethodsCognitive effects were investigated in the novel object recognition (NOR) and attentional set-shifting tests (ASST). In addition, the effects of ACPC were investigated in PCP-induced hyperactivity, conditioned avoidance response (CAR), and prepulse inhibition (PPI) tests. The effects on attention and impulsivity were measured in the five-choice serial reaction time task (5-CSRTT).ResultsACPC (200–400 mg/kg) inhibited memory fading in naive rats and like clozapine prevented PCP- and KET-induced amnesia in the NOR. In naive animals, ACPC at 400 but not 200 mg/kg enhanced cognitive flexibility in the ASST, as the animals required fewer trials to reach the criteria during the extra-dimensional phase. In contrast, ACPC did not affect PCP-induced hyperactivity, CAR, and PPI as well as attention and impulsivity in the 5-CSRTT.ConclusionThe present study demonstrates that ACPC enhanced both object recognition memory and cognitive flexibility dependent on the prefrontal cortex, but did not affect impulsivity nor exhibit an antipsychotic-like profile.
Recent in vivo and ex vivo findings indicate that the N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor complex may be a locus of antidepressant action (see Chapters 6 and 7). Functional antagonists of the NMDA receptor complex, including a competitive NMDA antagonist (2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoic acid [AP-7] (1), a glycine partial agonist (1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid [ACPC] (2,3), and a use-dependent channel antagonist (dizocilpine (4), are as efficacious as tricyclic antidepressants in preclinical tests predictive of antidepressant activity (5–8). Similarly, dizocilpine and the NMDA receptor antagonist CGP-37849 block the behavioral effects of two putative animal models of depression, learned helplessness and chronic mild stress-induced deficits in sucrose consumption (9–11). Moreover, a chronic regimen of either ACPC or dizocilpine produces a reduction in the density (downregulation) of cortical β-adrenoceptors in mice comparable to that produced by the prototypic tricyclic antidepressant imipramine (12). Likewise, Klimek and Papp (13) have reported that chronic dizocilpine treatment down-regulates cortical β-adrenoceptors, as well as 5-HT2 receptor, in rats. Thus, in both behavioral and biochemical screening procedures, antagonists at the NMDA receptor complex behave in a manner comparable to clinically active antidepressants.
The neuroprotective compound, 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC), has been reported to act on the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors simultaneously as a glycine binding site agonist and a glutamate binding site competitive antagonist. The complex kinetics of NMDA current changes measured by a whole-cell voltage clamp in rat hippocampal neurons resulting from application and removal of 1 mM ACPC in the continual presence of 15 microM NMDA confirm this hypothesis. Two-electrode voltage clamp on Xenopus oocytes expressing NR1-1a and either NR2A, NR2B or NR2C subunits yielded biphasic ACPC dose response curves with 15 microM NMDA. NR1-1a/NR2B and NR1-1a/NR2C subunit combinations yielded overlapping dose response curves with a maximal efficacy of approximately 80%; the maximal efficacy of ACPC for the NR1-1a/NR2A subunit combination was significantly lower at approximately 60%.
Rationale In addition to the negative and positive symptoms of schizophrenia, cognitive deficits, including prefrontal cortical dysfunction, are now recognized as core features of this disorder. Compounds increasing the NMDA receptor function via the strychnine-insensitive glycine receptors have been proposed as potential antipsychotics. Depending on the ambient concentrations of glutamate and glycine, 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC) behaves as either a partial agonist or a functional antagonist at the strychnineinsensitive glycine receptors. Objectives We investigated the procognitive and antipsychotic-like effects of ACPC in rats treated with phencyclidine (PCP) or ketamine (KET), compounds that produce psychotic-like symptoms in humans and laboratory animals. Methods Cognitive effects were investigated in the novel object recognition (NOR) and attentional set-shifting tests (ASST). In addition, the effects of ACPC were investigated in PCP-induced hyperactivity, conditioned avoidance response (CAR), and prepulse inhibition (PPI) tests. The effects on attention and impulsivity were measured in the five-choice serial reaction time task (5-CSRTT). Results ACPC (200-400 mg/kg) inhibited memory fading in naive rats and like clozapine prevented PCP-and KETinduced amnesia in the NOR. In naive animals, ACPC at 400 but not 200 mg/kg enhanced cognitive flexibility in the ASST, as the animals required fewer trials to reach the criteria during the extra-dimensional phase. In contrast, ACPC did not affect PCP-induced hyperactivity, CAR, and PPI as well as attention and impulsivity in the 5-CSRTT. Conclusion The present study demonstrates that ACPC enhanced both object recognition memory and cognitive flexibility dependent on the prefrontal cortex, but did not affect impulsivity nor exhibit an antipsychotic-like profile.
1-Aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC) is a highaffinity partial agonist at the strychnine-insensitive glycine sites (Marvizon et al. 1989 ) that exhibits anticonvulsant (Witkin and Tortella 1991) , neuroprotective (Von Lubitz et al. 1992; Fossom et al. 1995) , anxiolytic (Trullas et al. 1989) , anti-addictive (Kolesnikov et al. 1994 ) and antidepressant-like (Trullas and Skolnick 1990; Trullas et al. 1991; Papp and Moryl 1996) effects in rats and mice. This broad range of pharmacological effects is reminiscent of NMDA antagonists.
The natural nonproteinogenic α-amino acid 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (Ac3c) has been vaporized by laser ablation and studied in the gas phase by molecular-beam Fourier transform microwave spectroscopy. Comparison of the experimental rotational and 14N nuclear quadrupole coupling constants with the values predicted ab initio for these parameters has allowed the unambiguous identification of three Ac3c conformers differing in the hydrogen bonding pattern. Two of them resemble those characterized before for the coded aliphatic α-amino acids. Remarkably, a third conformer predicted to be energetically accessible for all of these amino acids but never observed (the so-called “missing conformer”) has been found for Ac3c, close in energy to the global minimum. This is the first time that such a conformer, stabilized by an N–H···O(H) hydrogen bond, is detected in the rotational spectrum of a gaseous α-amino acid with a nonpolar side chain. The conjugative interaction established between the cyclopropane r...
Both acute and chronic treatments with the glycine partial agonist 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC) are neuroprotective in animal models of focal, global and spinal ischemia. After a chronic regimen of ACPC, brain and plasma levels were undetectable at the time of ischemic insult, which suggests that the neuroprotective effects of acute and chronic ACPC are mediated by different mechanisms. To investigate the possibility that chronic administration of ACPC alters N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor composition, the levels of mRNAs encoding zeta and epsilon subunits were quantified by in situ hybridization histochemistry with 35S-labeled riboprobes. Chronic ACPC administered to mice (200 mg/kg for 14 days) increased the level of epsilon-1 mRNA in the hippocampus (particularly CA1 and CA2 regions) and cerebral cortex (frontal, parietal and occipital regions), without altering levels in cerebellum. In contrast, this regimen decreased epsilon-3 subunit mRNA levels in the hippocampus (especially CA1 and dentate gyrus) and frontal and occipital cortices. Decreases in epsilon-2 subunit mRNA levels in cerebral cortex (especially frontal and parietal cortices) were also observed without accompanying alterations in the cerebellum, hippocampus or dentate gyrus. The levels of zeta subunit mRNA (determined with a probe that detects all splice variants) were not altered in any brain areas examined. Based on studies in recombinant receptors, these region-specific changes in mRNAs produced by a chronic regimen of ACPC could result in NMDA receptors with reduced affinities for glycine and glutamate. It is hypothesized that such alterations in NMDA receptor subunit composition may explain the neuroprotective effects produced by chronic ACPC.
ACPC (1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid) is a partial agonist at the strychnine-insensitive glycine receptor site on the NMDA receptor complex, and a functional NMDA antagonist. A series of experiments was conducted to assess the effects of ACPC in a biased place conditioning paradigm. As previously reported, ACPC itself did not support either appetitive or aversive place conditioning. However, co-administration of ACPC (200 mg/kg) blocked the acquisition of place preferences conditioned using a variety of psychoactive drugs (amphetamine, cocaine, nomifensine, diazepam, morphine, nicotine). No tolerance was seen to this effect following two weeks of chronic ACPC administration. Overall, ACPC did not affect the expression of place conditioning when administered immediately before the post-conditioning test. However, these effects appeared somewhat variable between drugs, and further analysis showed that ACPC did block the expression of preferences conditioned with some drugs (diazepam, morphine, nicotine), but not others (amphetamine, cocaine, nomifensine). The effects of ACPC could not be accounted for by state dependence, as ACPC blocked morphine and cocaine place preferences when administered during both the acquisition and the expression phase of conditioning. In contrast to the blockade by ACPC of drug-induced place preferences, ACPC had no effect on the acquisition of place preferences conditioned using a variety of natural non-drug reinforcers (food, sucrose, social interaction, novelty). ACPC also had no effect on the acquisition of drug-induced place aversions (naloxone, picrotoxin). Thus, ACPC selectively blocked appetitive conditioning by drug reinforcers, without affecting either appetitive conditioning by natural reinforcers or drug-induced aversions. As place preference conditioning has been demonstrated to have high predictive validity for detecting compounds with an abuse potential in humans, this selective action suggests that ACPC might have some clinical utility in the treatment of addiction, without affecting responses to natural rewards.
ACPC (1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid) is a high affinity partial agonist at strychnine-insensitive glycine receptors (Marvizon et al. 1989) . There is also evidence that ACPC might act directly as a low-affinity antagonist at the NMDA receptor (Nahum- Levy et al. 1999) . ACPC has been found to produce anticonvulsant, neuroprotective, anxiolytic and antidepressantlike effects in rats and mice (Anthony and Nevins 1993; von Lubitz et al. 1992; Faiman et al. 1994; Trullas et al. 1991; , and was recently reported to block the acquisition of morphine CPP (Kotlinska and Biala 2000) . In this study we report on the effects of ACPC on the acquisition and expression of place preferences conditioned to a wide variety of drug and natural reinforcers, and on drug-induced conditioned place aversions.
The status epilepticus (SE) induced in rats by lithium-pilocarpine (Li-pilo) shares many common features with soman-induced SE including a glutamatergic phase that is inhibited by NMDA antagonists. The present study determined whether 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC) or D-cycloserine (DCS), both partial agonists of the strychnine-insensitive glycine site on the NMDA receptor ionophore complex, exerted anticonvulsant or neuroprotectant activity in Li-pilo SE. ACPC or DCS were administered either immediately following pilocarpine (exposure treatment) or 5 min after the onset of SE as determined by ECoG activity. SE was allowed to proceed for 3 h before termination with propofol. The rats were sacrificed 24 h following pilocarpine administration. Neither drug had an effect on the latency to seizure onset or the duration of seizure activity. ACPC administered 5 min after SE onset produced significant neuroprotection in cortical regions, amygdala and CA1 of the hippocampus. In contrast, when administered as exposure treatment ACPC enhanced the neural damage in the thalamus and CA3 of the hippocampus suggesting the neuropathology in those regions is mediated by a different subset of NMDA receptors. DCS had no neuroprotectant activity in Li-pilo SE but exacerbated neuronal damage in the thalamus. Neither drug affected the cholinergic convulsions but both had differential effects on neural damage. This suggests that the SE-induced seizure activity and subsequent neuronal damage involve independent mechanisms.
Abstract Using the conflict drinking Vogel test in rats as a model, in the present study we examined the anxiolytic-like activity of DL-(E)-2-amino-4-methyl-5-phosphono-3-pentenoic acid (CGP 37849), a competitive N- methyl - d - aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist and 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC), a partial agonist at strychnine-insensitive glycine receptors associated with the NMDA receptor complex, after their intraperitoneal (IP) and intrahippocampal (IHP) administration. CGP 37849, administered in doses of 1.25–5 mg/kg IP, produced an anticonflict effect in a dose-dependent manner, but was inactive when injected in doses of 0.01–0.1 μg IHP. At the same time, when administered in higher doses (10 mg/kg IP or 0.3 μg IHP), that drug induced motor impairment. On the other hand, ACPC exhibited an anxiolytic-like activity after both IP (100–200 mg/kg) and IHP (3–30 μg) administration. These results, as well as the literature data on the lack of motor-impairing effects of ACPC, indicate that the latter drug seems to be more advantageous than CGP 37849 as a potential therapeutic agent in the treatment of anxiety disorders. Furthermore, they also show that the hippocampus may be one of the neuroanatomical sites of the anxiolytic-like effect of ACPC, but not of CGP 37849.
Both physiological and proteomic analyses were performed to explore the mechanism of waterlogging priming on plant tolerance to waterlogging stress in wheat. Compared with non-primed plants (CW), waterlogging primed plants (WW) showed higher activity of enzymes in the ascorbate–glutathione cycle. In agreement with the physiological results, proteins associated with energy metabolism and stress defense had a significantly higher expression in WW than CW. In particular, the proteins related to ethylene biosynthesis showed a higher expression in WW than CW. Moreover, exogenous ethephon (EW), ethylene precursor 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACW) and an ethylene inhibitor amino-oxyacetic acid were applied before waterlogging to ascertain the effects of ethylene on waterlogging. Use of ACW resulted in a higher yield as compared with non-pretreatment with waterlogging stress. A greater yield loss in EW was due to the fact that higher ethylene concentration led to a more severe seed abortion. Use of ethylene alleviated the negative effects on leaf photosynthesis by increasing stomatal conductance under waterlogging stress. In short, priming alleviated the negative effects of waterlogging stress in wheat, and use of exogenous ethylene resulted in an increase in leaf photosynthesis by promoting stomata opening under waterlogging stress.
Wheat leaves normally produced very little ethylene, but following a water deficit stress which caused a loss of 9% initial fresh weight, ethylene production increased more than 30-fold within 4 hours and declined rapidly thereafter. The changes in ethylene production were paralleled by an increase and subsequent decrease in 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACC) content. The level of S-adenosylmethionine was unaffected, suggesting that the conversion of S-adenosylmethionine to ACC is a key reaction in the production of water stress-induced ethylene. This view was further supported by the observation that application of ACC to nonstressed leaf tissue caused a 70-fold increase in ethylene production, while aminoethoxyvinylglycine, a known inhibitor of the conversion of S-adenosylmethionine to ACC, inhibited ACC accumulation as well as the surge in ethylene production if the inhibitor was applied prior to the stress treatment. Cycloheximide, an inhibitor of protein synthesis, effectively blocked both ethylene production and ACC formation, suggesting that water stress induces de novo synthesis of ACC synthase, which is the rate-controlling enzyme in the pathway of ethylene biosynthesis.
The new 1,1-dimethylpropargylamine surrogates, 1-ethynylcyclopropylamine (3) and 1-ethynylcyclobutylamine (5), were prepared as hydrochlorides from cyclopropylacetylene and 6-chlorohex-1-yne in overall yields of 39 and 25%, respectively, on a scale of up to 300 mmol. The amine 3 was converted into the new ethynyl-extended 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid 4, and both the amine 3 as well as the amino acid 4 were made available as their N-Fmoc-protected derivatives.
To further explore the relationship between FERLs and ethylene in apple fruit, we examined the effects of 1-MCP, an inhibitor of ethylene perception, and ACC (1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid), a precursor of ethylene, on the expression of the six MdFERLs evaluated earlier. As shown in Figure 3 , MdFERL1, MdFERL6, MdFERL8, and MdFERL12 were upregulated by 1-MCP and suppressed by ACC treatment; however, MdFERL7 could only be induced by 1-MCP and MdFERL14 was only suppressed by ACC (Figure 3) .
Significant ethylene evolution was observed in the reaction of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid, binuclear iron(III) compounds and hydrogen peroxide; the origin of the ethylene is discussed in terms of the activation of peroxide ion by the binuclear iron(III) compounds.
Abstract : The project is designed to evaluate anticonvulsant and neuroprotectant properties of novel medical countermeasures to lithium-pilocarpine (Li-pilo) induced status epilepticus (SE) used here as a model of organophosphorus nerve agents. The nonbarbiturate anesthetic propofol was found to induce significant anticonvulsant and neuroprotectant effects in Li-pilo SE. The strychnine-insensitive glycine site partial agonists 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC) and D-cycloserine had no anticonvulsant activity but ACPC induced significant neuroprotection. Although ongoing, studies involving the spin-trap N-tert-alpha-(2 sulfophenyl)-nitrone (S-PBN) and the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug mefenamic acid indicate neuroprotection without anticonvulsant activity for both agents. It is concluded that neuroprotection may be induced even in intractable seizures.
(Z)-2-phenyl-4-phenylidene-5(4H)-oxazolone reacted with p-chlorophenyl diazomethane by 1,3-dipolar cycloaddition at room temperature obtaining the adduct in 82% yield.The adduct was then converted into cis-2-(4chlorophenyl)-trans-3-phenyl-r-1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid hydrochloride in 56% yield by ring-opening in methanol and then hydrolysis.The crystal structure of the adduct and the GC-MS analysis of its crude product indicated the 1,3-dipolar cycloaddition was diasterosepecific.
Abstract The title compound, 2-aza-bicyclo[3.1.0]hexane-1-carboxylic acid (2) was prepared by treatment of N-benzyloxycarbonyl-2, 3-dehydroproline tert-butyl ester with diazomethane followed by photolysis of the resulting pyrazoline and deprotection. Its N-acetyl-N′-methyl amide, a peptide mimic, was synthesized and the structure of was confirmed by X-ray diffraction studies. NMR spectroscopy was also used to examine the effect of the cyclopropane ring on its conformation. This 2, 3-methanoamino acid (2) was found to be a weak inhibitor of ethylene biosynthesis in cucumber cotyledon strips and germinating squash seeds. The data show that 2 probably inhibits the conversion of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid to ethylene in these tissues.
Sustained (20 h) exposure to the glycine partial agonist 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC) significantly reduced N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-induced neurotoxicity in cultured spinal cord neurons when the NMDA (25 and 100 microM) was added to the cultures 30 min after removal of the ACPC (1 mM). In contrast, ACPC preexposure failed to protect against kainate-induced neuronal injury. The magnitude of neuronal protection against NMDA (100 microM) was further enhanced if the neurons pretreated with ACPC were reexposed to this drug during the NMDA challenge. In addition, the potencies of both the competitive NMDA antagonist AP5 and the noncompetitive antagonist dizocilpine to block NMDA toxicity were significantly increased following ACPC preexposure, while the potency of the competitive glycine receptor antagonist 7-chlorokynurenate (7-CK) was unchanged. Analysis of Northern blots suggest that ACPC-induced changes in NMDA receptor function were not associated with alterations in the levels of the mRNAs encoding the NMDAR-1, -2A, -2B, or -2C subunits. These results indicate that sustained exposure to ACPC modifies NMDA receptors in a manner that diminishes NMDA receptor-mediated neurotoxicity while selectively enhancing the potencies of several NMDA receptor antagonists. These effects do not appear to be related to changes in expression of specific NMDA receptor subunits, and may instead involve a post-translational modification of one or more subunit proteins.
Abstract The crystal structure of (1SR, 2RS)-1-[N-tert-butoxycarbonyl)amino]-2-hydroxymethylcylopropane-1-carboxylic acid, a derivative of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (Acc), was determined by X-ray analysis. The molecule possesses the Z-configuration of the cyclopropane ring, a disordered carboxylic group, and a trans conformation of peptide bond. Intermolecular hydrogen bonds form R22(8) and R22(10) dimers and infinite chains along the b-axis. Mutually connected molecules are in ab-plane separated by the hydrophobic channels formed between tert-butyl groups of adjacent molecules. Conformational analysis using molecular-mechanics method, supported by the overlapping spheres method for finding the low-energy conformations, showed that the conformation observed in crystal state had 2.8 kJ mol−1 higher conformational energy than the lowest conformation. The analysis also showed that there were at least 11 conformations within that span, which is consistent with the assumption that the conformation of this molecule in the crystal state is substantially influenced by hydrogen bonding. Calculations for the dimer consisting of x,y,z and x,y−1,z molecule showed a high correlation between the reproduction of crystal structure and similarity of its monomer units, which suggests that the symmetry of the dimer is not caused merely by crystal packing.
The polymerizations of the N-carboxyanhydrides of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid, 1-aminocyclobutanecarboxylic acid, 1-aminocyclopentanecarboxylic acid, and 1-aminocyclohexanecarboxylic acid were investigated. These N-carboxyanhydrides did not polymerize in bulk when heated to their melting points under reduced pressure. In solution, they polymerized extremely slowly on initiation with n-hexylamine and relatively slowly when initiated by sodium methoxide–methanol. The polymerization rates of the above NCAs in dimethyl sulfoxide solution, initiated by sodium methoxide–methanol were found to increase in the following order: NCA of 1-aminocyclohexanecarboxylic acid, NCA of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid, NCA of 1-aminocyclopentanecarboxylic acid and NCA of 1-aminocyclobutanecarboxylic acid. The influence of the alicyclic side rings on the relative rates of polymerization of the respective NACs is considered.
Abstract Using the forced swimming test in rats (Porsolt test), we examined the antidepressant-like activity of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC), a partial agonist at strychnine-insensitive glycine receptors associated with the N-methyl- d -aspartate (NMDA) receptor complex, and of dl -(E)-2-amino-4-methyl-5-phosphono-3-pentenoic acid (CGP 37849), a competitive NMDA receptor antagonists, after their intraperitoneal (i.p.) and intrahippocampal (i.hp.) administration. ACPC (200–400 mg/kg) and CGP 37849 (0.625–5 mg/kg), administered i.p., produced a dose-dependent and significant reduction of the immobility time in the forced swimming test. A similar effect was also observed after i.hp. administration of ACPC (10 and 30 μg) and CGP 37849 (0.03 and 0.1 μg). Imipramine, used as a reference drug, significantly shortened the immobility time after both i.p. (30 and 40 mg/kg) and i.hp. (0.1 and 0.3 μg) administration. The compounds studied, administered in doses effective in the forced swimming test, did not change the exploratory activity of the rats, evaluated by an open field test. The present results indicate that, like imipramine, ACPC and CGP 37849 exhibit an antidepressant-like activity in the forced swimming test in rats; moreover, they seem to show that the hippocampus may be one of the neuroanatomical sites involved in this effect. © 1997 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
A new asymmetric synthesis of disubstituted α-amino acids is presented. This synthesis is based on the chiral 5-methoxy-1,4-oxazin-2-one derivative 5 relying on the α-hydroxy acid 1 as a chiral auxiliary. Alkylation reactions of the glycine equivalent 5 are performed by deprotonation with sec-butyllithium and subsequent reaction with alkyl halides, yielding the monoalkylated compounds 13 and 14. A second alkylation step of the lithium enolates of 13 and 14 leads to the α,α-disubstituted compounds 17. Both steps proceed with good yields and excellent stereoselectivities (up to 99% de). From the major diastereomers 17c–d the corresponding α-amino acids 19c–d are obtained enantiomerically pure upon hydrolytic cleavage with aqueous sodium hydroxide. Alkylation of the enolate ion of 5 with epichlorohydrines as bifunctional electrophiles provides the cyclopropyl derivatives 20a–b. Direct hydrolysis or oxidation of 20a–b, followed by reductive amination and hydrolysis leads to the substituted 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acids 21a–b and 24a–b.
1-Aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid derivatives are synthesized from readily available dehydroamino acid derivatives via sulfur ylide. A range of different ylides are employed and the corresponding aminocyclopropanes are afforded with reasonable diastereoselection in good yields.
Colibactin represents a structurally undefined class of bacterial genotoxin inducing DNA damage and genomic instability in mammalian cells, thus promoting tumour development and exacerbating lymphopenia in animal models. The colibactin biosynthetic gene cluster (clb) has been known for ten years and it encodes a hybrid nonribosomal peptide synthetase (NRPS)/polyketide synthase (PKS) assembly line. Nevertheless, the final chemical product(s) remain unknown. Previously, we and others reported several colibactin pathway-related metabolites including N-myristoyl-d-asparagine (1) as part of a prodrug precursor that is cleaved from the putative precolibactin to form active colibactin by the peptidase ClbP. Herein, we report two new colibactin pathway-related metabolites (2 and 3) isolated from a clbP mutant of the probiotic E. coli Nissle 1917 strain. Their structures were established by HRMS and NMR. Compound 2 shows an additional 4-aminopenatanoic acid moiety with respect to 1, while 3 is characterized by the presence of an unusual 7-methyl-4-azaspiro[2.4]hept-6-en-5-one residue. Moreover, we propose the biosynthetic pathway towards both intermediates on the basis of extensive gene inactivation and feeding experiments. The identification of 2 and 3 provides further insight into colibactin biosynthesis including the involvement and formation of a rare 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid unit. Thus, our work establishes additional steps of the pathway forming the bacterial genotoxin colibactin.
1-Aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC) is a high affinity partial agonist for the glycine binding site within the NMDA receptor complex. Chronic treatment with ACPC in vivo appears to reversibly desensitize the NMDA receptor complex, prompting suggestions that it might provide an effective means of ameliorating degenerative mechanisms mediated through this ligand-gated ion channel. In the present experiments, cultured rat spinal cord neurons were used to further examine the effects of acute and sustained ACPC exposures on N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA)-induced neurotoxicity. Cell damage was quantitatively assessed using a tetrazolium salt colorimetric assay. With coincubation, 1 mM ACPC significantly reduced the neuronal cell damage caused by 30 min exposure to 25 or 50 μM concentrations of NMDA, but, in contrast to other competitive and non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonists (d-(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (APV), dizocilpine maleate (MK-801) and 7-chlorokynurenic acid (7-CK)), it failed to alter the cell injury induced by 100 μM NMDA. The protective effect of ACPC was competitively abolished by coaddition of glycine, verifying that it was mediated through glycine binding sites. Sustained 20 h exposure to 1 mM ACPC (which was removed 30 min before addition of 25 μM NMDA) also caused cells to be significantly less responsive to the neurotoxic effects of NMDA. Pre-exposure to ACPC for shorter intervals (< 1 h) failed to alter subsequent NMDA toxicity. Acute or sustained exposures to ACPC alone did not affect cell viability. These results support earlier indications that: (1) ACPC provides an effective means of antagonizing excitotoxic phenomena, and (2) sustained exposure to ACPC desensitizes the NMDA receptor complex.
The anxiolytic and memory-impairing effects of compounds that act at strychnine-insensitive (SI) glycine receptors were examined and compared with those of a competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist, 2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoic acid (AP7); a use-dependent channel blocker, dizocilpine; and a benzodiazepine agonist, diazepam (DZP). Mice were trained to avoid a dark compartment and their latencies to step through were measured either within 1 hr after training in the presence of the drug (to assess the anxiolytic effects) or 24 hr after pre- or post-training treatment (to assess the effects on learning and memory). Post-training administration of the glycinergic compounds 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid, 7-chlorokynurenic acid and D-cycloserine reduced step-through latencies when testing was performed 30 min after drug treatment and within 1 h after training. Latencies were unaltered by these glycinergic compounds when testing was performed 24 hr later. Similar results were obtained with AP7 and DZP. In contrast, an amnesic dose of pentylenetetrazole reduced latencies both within 1 and 24 hr after training. Pretreatment with glycine abolished the reduction in latencies observed with SI glycine receptor ligands 1 hr after training but did not antagonize the reduction produced by AP7. Pretraining administration of SI glycine receptor ligands did not alter step-through latencies measured 24 hr later. In contrast, under these same conditions, AP7, dizocilpine and DZP produced a significant reduction in latencies. These results demonstrate that compounds that act at SI glycine receptors do not impair learning and memory at doses that are anxiolytic in a single-trial punishment paradigm.
Background: This study was performed to compare the analgesic effects of the systemic versus local administration of ketamine and observe the effects of an NMDA receptor agonist on its peripheral analgesia using the rat formalin test. Methods: Rats undergoing peripheral analgesia were divided into three groups; the administration of a subcutaneous (s.c.) injection of 0.1 ml of normal saline (Control), and intraperitoneal (i.p.) (Keta/IP) and s.c. (Keta/LO) injections of 2.5 mg/0.1 ml of ketamine administered 5 min before a s.c. injection of 50 ul of 5% formalin. All s.c. injections were performed at the same site: the right hind paw of the rat. To observe the effects of an NMDA receptor agonist, five groups were compared. In addition to the control and Keta/LO groups described above, following three groups with 1-Aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC), an NMDA receptor agonist, in addition to the Keta/LO group; local infiltration with 0.1 mM/0.1 ml ACPC 10 min before or after the administration of ketamine, and an i.p. injection 10 min before the administration of ketamine followed by a s.c. injection of formalin 5 min later. The pain behavior was compared according to the number of flinches during phase 2. Results: All the ketamine groups showed fewer flinches compared to the control (P ＜ 0.01). The Keta/Lo group showed fewer flinches than that of the Keta/IP group (P ＜ 0.01). The analgesic effect of locally administered ketamine was reversed by pretreatment with either s.c. or i.p. ACPC, but not by post-treatment. Conclusions: These data suggest that locally administered ketamine has a potent peripheral analgesic effect, but the administration of ACPC prior to ketamine decreases the analgesic effect of ketamine.
Abstract1-Aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid is a high affinity ligand with partial agonist properties at strychnine-insensitive glycine sites associated with the N-methyl-D-aspartate subtype of glutamate receptors. Since occupation of these sites appears required for operation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor coupled cation channels, it was hypothesized that a glycine partial agonist could function as an N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist. This hypothesis was examined by evaluating the in vivo and in vitro neuroprotective actions of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid. 1-Aminocyclopropanecarboxlic acid (150-600 mg kg~1) administered to gerbils five minutes following twenty minutes of forebrain ischemia significantly improved seven day survival; the optimal dose (300 mg kg~1) increased 7 day survival >4-fold, from 20% to 92%. Survival of hippocampal CA1 neurons (quantitated 7 days post-ischemia) was significantly (~ 3-fold) increased by the 600 mg kg~1 dose. Seven day survival was not significantly increased wh...
The effect of acute and repeated (once daily, 14 days) administration of a potential antidepressant, the glycineB partial agonist 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC, 100-400 mg/kg, ip), on the hyperactivity induced by amphetamine (0.5 mg/kg, sc) in rats was studied. Neither acute nor repeated treatment with the drug affected the hyperlocomotion induced by amphetamine. The obtained results indicate that ACPC does not resemble antidepressant drugs in this behavioral model.
Chronic treatment of gerbils with 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (a high affinity, partial agonist at strychnine-insensitive glycine receptors) resulted in a 3-fold increase in survival, a significant improvement in neurological status, and an extensive protection of vulnerable brain regions following severe forebrain ischaemia. A bolus of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid 30 min prior to ischaemia did not further improve outcome compared to gerbils receiving their last injection 24 h prior to ischaemia. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that chronic treatment with a glycine partial agonist desensitizes the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor complex. Pharmacological intervention at the strychnine-insensitive glycine receptor may be an effective means of ameliorating the consequences of neuronal degeneration caused by excitotoxic phenomena.
1-Aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC) is a high affinity ligand at strychnine-insensitive glycine receptors that exhibits partial agonist properties in both biochemical and electrophysiological measures. While ACPC was reported active in animal models commonly used to evaluate potential antidepressants (forced swim) and anxiolytics (plus-maze), the zwitterionic character of this compound could limit both penetration into the central nervous system and oral availability. The present experiments were designed to determine the duration of action of ACPC, its efficacy following oral administration, and to compare these effects with the more lipophilic ACPC methyl ester. Parenterally and orally administered ACPC were equipotent in reducing immobility in the forced swim test, an action manifested for at least 6 h. Both orally and parenterally administered ACPC methyl ester were approximately 3.3-fold more potent than ACPC in the forced swim test. In the elevated plus-maze, both ACPC and ACPC methyl ester were active for 1-2 h after parenteral administration. These findings suggest that 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylates may constitute a novel class of antidepressant/anxiolytic agents.
Methods: Rats undergoing peripheral analgesia were divided into three groups; the administration of a subcutaneous (s.c.) injection of 0.1 ml of normal saline (Control), and intraperitoneal (i.p.) (Keta/IP) and s.c. (Keta/LO) injections of 2.5 mg/0.1 ml of ketamine administered 5 min before a s.c. injection of 50 ul of 5% formalin. All s.c. injections were performed at the same site: the right hind paw of the rat. To observe the effects of an NMDA receptor agonist, five groups were compared. In addition to the control and Keta/LO groups described above, following three groups with 1-Aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC), an NMDA receptor agonist, in addition to the Keta/LO group; local infiltration with 0.1 mM/0.1 ml ACPC 10 min before or after the administration of ketamine, and an i.p. injection 10 min before the administration of ketamine followed by a s.c. injection of formalin 5 min later. The pain behavior was compared according to the number of flinches during phase 2.
1-Benzyl-2-(bromomethyl)aziridine was successfully substituted with protected glycine esters to afford alkyl 3-(N-benzylaziridin-2-yl)-2-aminopropanoates, as constrained heterocyclic diamino acid derivatives, in good isolated yields. These new aziridines proved to be excellent building blocks for ring transformation to the corresponding stereochemically defined 2-(aminomethyl)-1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid derivatives, including methyl esters, piperidyl amides, and free carboxylic acids.
The enzyme that oxidatively converts 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACC) to ethylene, a key plant growth hormone, has been classified, on the basis of a comparison of homologous protein sequences (derived from the cDNA sequences), as a member of a family of non-heme iron proteins that includes plant and bacterial oxidative enzymes. This kowledge has facilitated the purification of the relatively abundant ethylene-forming enzyme to homogeneity from apple tissue. The properties of the enzyme are consistent with two other recent reports that describes its purification by different protocols, lending credence to the assertion that the key protein has been isolated. New characterizations of the protein have been conducted
Abstract PRZEGALIŃSKI, E., E. TATARCZYŃSKA, A. KŁODZIŃSKA AND E. CHOJNACKA-WOJCIK. Tolerance to anxiolytic- and antidepressant-like effects of a partial agonist of glycine B receptors. PHARMACOL BIOCHEM BEHAV 64 (3) 461–466, 1999.—The present study examined effects of acute and repeated administration of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC), a partial agonist of glycine B receptors, in the conflict drinking test and the forced swim test in rats. Diazepam and imipramine were used, respectively, as reference drugs in those tests. In the conflict drinking test, acute administration of ACPC (200 mg/kg) increased fivefold the number of punished licks. A three- and fivefold increase in the number of punished licks was observed in rats treated repeatedly with ACPC (200 mg/kg daily; 14 days) and challenged with the same dose of the drug 24 h or 4 days later, respectively. A single injection of ACPC (400 mg/kg) reduced by 40% the immobility time in the forced swim test. In rats treated repeatedly with ACPC (400 mg/kg daily; 14 days) and challenged with the same dose 24 h or 4 days later, the drug either produced no singnificant effect or reduced the immobility time by 50%, respectively. On the other hand, no changes in anxiolytic- and antidepressant-like effects of chronically administered diazepam (10 mg/kg daily; 14 days) and imipramine (30 mg/kg daily; 14 days), respectively, were observed. The above results indicate that tolerance develops to the anxiolytic- and, particularly, to the antidepressant-like activity of ACPC.
The hypothesis that glutamate dilates pial arterioles of newborn pigs through the production of carbon monoxide (CO) was addressed. Anesthesized newborn pigs were equipped with cranial windows to measure pial arteriolar responses to stimuli. Heme oxygenase (HO) inhibitors added topically inhibited dilation to glutamate and to specific glutamate receptor agonists. The initial dilation to glutamate (10(-5) M) was 22% from baseline without an inhibitor and decreased to 9% with the HO inhibitor chromium mesoporphyrin (CrMP). Inhibition of dilation upon HO inhibition was similar when specific glutamate receptor agonists were employed. RS-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid caused 24% dilation from the baseline without an inhibitor, and the dilation was decreased to 1% with tin protoporphyrin (SnPP). (RS)-2-amino-3-(3-hydroxy-5-t-butylisoxazol-4-yl)propionic acid (kainate receptors) caused dilation of 18% from baseline without an inhibitor, but only 2% when tin mesoporphyrin was applied. 1-Aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors) dilated pial arterioles 33% from baseline in control, but only to 2% in the presence of SnPP. Neither copper mesoporphyrin, which does not inhibit HO, nor light-inactivated CrMP affected the dilations. Furthermore, cerebral microvessels removed from the brain produced CO (stable isotope dilution gas chromatography-mass spectrometry), and this production was dose dependently increased by glutamate and inhibited by metal porphyrin HO inhibitors. These data suggest that dilation of newborn pig pial arterioles to glutamate and specific glutamate receptor agonists involves vascular production of CO. Additional cerebral sources of CO also could be stimulated by glutamate and contribute to the dilation.
By using a regiospecifically dideuteriated form of the substrate it is shown that the enzymic conversion of (S)-adenosylmethionine (SAM) into 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACC) involves an inversion at the α-carbon centre, a feature rarely observed for other pyridoxal phosphate-dependent reactions.
Glutamate neurotoxicity was examined in cultured cerebellar granule neurons following both prolonged (20-24 h) and brief (45 min) exposure to compounds acting at strychnine-insensitive glycine receptors. Glutamate neurotoxicity was reduced in a concentration-dependent fashion by brief exposure to the glycine partial agonists 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC) and (+-)-3-amino-1-hydroxy-2-pyrrolidone (HA-966) and the competitive antagonist, 7-chlorokynurenic acid (7-CK) with a rank order efficacy: 7-CK > HA-966 > ACPC. Neither D-cycloserine (D-CS) nor glycine affected neurotoxicity produced by maximum glutamate concentrations, while glycine but not D-CS augmented the effects of submaximum glutamate concentrations. Prolonged exposure of cultures to either full (glycine) or partial agonists (ACPC, D-CS, HA-966) abolished the neuroprotective effects of ACPC and significantly diminished the neuroprotective effects of HA-966. In contrast, the neuroprotective effects of 7-CK were only marginally reduced by prolonged exposure to glycinergic ligands, while the neuroprotection afforded by compounds acting at other loci on the NMDA receptor complex (e.g. 2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoate (APV) and dizocilpine (MK-801)) were unaltered. These effects may represent homologous desensitization of the NMDA receptor complex at its strychnine-insensitive glycine receptor induced by prolonged exposure to glycinergic agonists and partial agonists. Nonetheless, levels of the NMDA receptor subunit zeta 1 mRNA were unaffected by prolonged exposure to ACPC, indicating the apparent desensitization could involve a post-translational modification of the NMDA receptor complex.
The hypothesis that glutamate dilates pial arterioles of newborn pigs through the production of carbon monoxide (CO) was addressed. Anesthesized newborn pigs were equipped with cranial windows to measure pial arteriolar responses to stimuli. Heme oxygenase (HO) inhibitors added topically inhibited dilation to glutamate and to specific glutamate receptor agonists. The initial dilation to glutamate (10 Ϫ5 M) was 22% from baseline without an inhibitor and decreased to 9% with the HO inhibitor chromium mesoporphyrin (CrMP). Inhibition of dilation upon HO inhibition was similar when specific glutamate receptor agonists were employed. RS-␣-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid caused 24% dilation from the baseline without an inhibitor, and the dilation was decreased to 1% with tin protoporphyrin (SnPP). (RS)-2-amino-3-(3-hydroxy-5-t-butylisoxazol-4-yl)propionic acid (kainate receptors) caused dilation of 18% from baseline without an inhibitor, but only 2% when tin mesoporphyrin was applied. 1-Aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors) dilated pial arterioles 33% from baseline in control, but only to 2% in the presence of SnPP. Neither copper mesoporphyrin, which does not inhibit HO, nor light-inactivated CrMP affected the dilations. Furthermore, cerebral microvessels removed from the brain produced CO (stable isotope dilution gas chromatography-mass spectrometry), and this production was dose dependently increased by glutamate and inhibited by metal porphyrin HO inhibitors. These data suggest that dilation of newborn pig pial arterioles to glutamate and specific glutamate receptor agonists involves vascular production of CO. Additional cerebral sources of CO also could be stimulated by glutamate and contribute to the dilation.
A simple and stereoselective method for the preparation of (Z)-2-substituted 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acids is described. The common key step for these reaction sequences involves the stereoselective Ti-mediated coupling of benzyloxy nitrile and homoallylic alcohol. The resulting 2-hydroxyethyl-substituted cyclopropylamine can be transformed shortly into various cyclopropane amino acid analogues on the gram scale, in good overall yields. Several syntheses of 2,3-methanoamino acids, that is, ACCs derived from proteinogenic α-amino acids or analogues, such as glutamic acid, arginine, homoarginine, and lysine derivatives are presented to exemplify the usefulness of the method. Additionally, starting from cyanoesters, spirocyclopropane γ-amino acid analogues are available in this way. (© Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, 69451 Weinheim, Germany, 2009)
During the incubation of undifferentiated cell suspensions of sunflower (Helianthus annuus L. cv. Spanners Allzweck) ethylene production was effectively inhibited by the novel oxime ether derivative LAB 181 508, [[(Isopropyliden)-amino]-oxy]-acetic acid-2-(methoxyl)-2-oxoethylester (PACME). The compound was most active during the first 6 days of incubation exhibiting a value of 50% inhibition at 9.5×10−6 mol×L−1. The pattern of changes in the internal 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACC) and N-malonyl-ACC (MACC) levels paralleled the influence on ethylene formation. While the addition of ACC fully restored ethylene production, applied S-adenosyl-L-methionine (SAM) was not effective. Experiments with [14C]indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) revealed that LAB 181 508 did not affect auxin uptake into suspension cells of sunflower. The results suggest that LAB 181 508 reduces ethylene formation by inhibiting the conversion of SAM to ACC in the biosynthetic pathway. In comparison to the structurally related inhibitor of ACC synthase, aminoethoxyvinylglycine (AVG), LAB 181 508 reduced growth and viability of the suspension cells only slightly. Low phytotoxicity of LAB 181 508 combined with a less complicated chemical synthesis might offer interesting aspects for physiological research and horticultural and agricultural practice.
A convenient synthesis of 4-sulfanylmethylene-5(4H)-oxazolones 3 was realized starting from 4-(chloromethylene)oxazolone 1 and mercaptans 2. Oxazolones 3 were used as starting materials for the preparation of unknown 2-sulfanyl-1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid derivatives 5 and7. Oxazolones 3 were cyclopropanated at the exocyclic double bond with diazomethane, giving a mixture of the two (Z)- and (E)-spirocyclopropane oxazolones 4 with good diastereoselectivity. These were then treated with ethanol and DMAP to produce the corresponding carboxylates 5. The trityl derivative 5d was converted into a mixture of diastereoisomeric disulfides 6 using iodine in ethanol solution. Disulfides 6 are convenient synthons for the preparation of 3-sulfanyl-substituted 2,3-methanoamino acids 7.
Ethylene as a gaseous plant hormone is directly involved in various processes during plant growth and development. Much is known regarding the ethylene receptors and regulatory factors in the ethylene signal transduction pathway. In Arabidopsis thaliana, REVERSION-TO-ETHYLENE SENSITIVITY1 (RTE1) can interact with and positively regulates the ethylene receptor ETHYLENE RESPONSE1 (ETR1). In this study we report the identification and characterization of an RTE1-interacting protein, a putative Arabidopsis lipid transfer protein 1 (LTP1) of unknown function. Through bimolecular fluorescence complementation, a direct molecular interaction between LTP1 and RTE1 was verified in planta. Analysis of an LTP1-GFP fusion in transgenic plants and plasmolysis experiments revealed that LTP1 is localized to the cytoplasm. Analysis of ethylene responses showed that the ltp1 knockout is hypersensitive to 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACC), while LTP1 overexpression confers insensitivity. Analysis of double mutants etr1-2 ltp1 and rte1-3 ltp1 demonstrates a regulatory function of LTP1 in ethylene receptor signaling through the molecular association with RTE1. This study uncovers a novel function of Arabidopsis LTP1 in the regulation of ethylene response and signaling.
THE effect of systemic treatment with 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC), a partial agonist at the glycine site of the NMDA receptor, on convulsions and neurodegeneration induced by intrahippocampal injection of NMDA was investigated in mice. Five days after intrahippocampal NMDA infusion, 80-100% pyramidal cell death was observed in the CA1 region of the hippocampus. Pretreatment with ACPC prevented the lethal effects of NMDA and significantly reduced seizure induction. ACPC reduced cell death to 40% of that induced by a dose of NMDA (6 nmol) that damaged 80% of hippocampal CA1 neurones in untreated animals. These findings provide further evidence that ACPC can reduce NMDA receptor function in vivo and suggest that partial agonists at the glycine site of the NMDA receptor complex may be useful anticonvulsant and neuroprotective agents.
Abstract A new efficient synthesis of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACC) from methyl 2-diphenylmethyleneaminoacrylate in nearly quantitative yield has been developed. The key step in the synthesis is the removal of both protecting groups in mild conditions and in quantitative yield to afford ACC.
Catalytic hydrogenation of 1-aminocyclopropenecarboxylic acid under tritium gas afforded [2,3-3H]1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid with specific activity 26 Ci/mmol, determined by a combination of 1H and 3H NMR. Pilot radioligand binding assays indicate this compound will be a useful probe for the NMDA receptor-associated strychnine-insensitive glycine receptor.
Abstract The reaction of N -(diphenylmethylene)didehydroalanine methyl ester and N -[bis(methylthio)methylene]didehydroalanine methyl ester with diazoalkanes or ylides gives the corresponding cyclopropane derivatives in high yields. The cis/trans ratio of these compounds was dependent on substrate, reagent and reaction temperature. From stereochemically homogeneous compounds the corresponding 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acids were easily obtained by acid hydrolysis.
Several isomers of L-aspartyl-1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid methyl ester with methyl group substitutions on the cyclopropane ring were synthesized. Conformational analyses were carried out on these molecules using 1 H NMR and molecular modeling studies. Their taste properties are explained on the basis of ou previously reported topochemical model for taste response
APETALA2/ethylene-responsive factor superfamily (AP2/ERF) is a transcription factor involved in abiotic stresses, for instance, cold, drought, and low oxygen. In this study, a novel ethylene-responsive transcription factor named AdRAP2.3 was isolated from Actinidia deliciosa 'Jinkui'. AdRAP2.3 transcription levels in other reproductive organs except for the pistil were higher than those in the vegetative organs (root, stem, and leaf) in kiwi fruit. Plant hormones (Salicylic acid (SA), Methyl-jasmonate acid (MeJA), 1-Aminocyclopropanecarboxylic Acid (ACC), Abscisic acid (ABA)), abiotic stresses (waterlogging, heat, 4 °C and NaCl) and biotic stress (Pseudomonas Syringae pv. Actinidiae, Psa) could induce the expression of AdRAP2.3 gene in kiwi fruit. Overexpression of the AdRAP2.3 gene conferred waterlogging stress tolerance in transgenic tobacco plants. When completely submerged, the survival rate, fresh weight, and dry weight of transgenic tobacco lines were significantly higher than those of wile type (WT). Upon the roots being submerged, transgenic tobacco lines grew aerial roots earlier. Overexpression of AdRAP2.3 in transgenic tobacco improved the pyruvate decarboxylase (PDC) and alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) enzyme activities, and improved the expression levels of waterlogging mark genes NtPDC, NtADH, NtHB1, NtHB2, NtPCO1, and NtPCO2 in roots under waterlogging treatment. Overall, these results demonstrated that AdRAP2.3 might play an important role in resistance to waterlogging through regulation of PDC and ADH genes in kiwi fruit.
Abstract: APETALA2/ethylene-responsive factor superfamily (AP2/ERF) is a transcription factor involved in abiotic stresses, for instance, cold, drought, and low oxygen. In this study, a novel ethylene-responsive transcription factor named AdRAP2.3 was isolated from Actinidia deliciosa 'Jinkui'. AdRAP2.3 transcription levels in other reproductive organs except for the pistil were higher than those in the vegetative organs (root, stem, and leaf) in kiwi fruit. Plant hormones (Salicylic acid (SA), Methyl-jasmonate acid (MeJA), 1-Aminocyclopropanecarboxylic Acid (ACC), Abscisic acid (ABA)), abiotic stresses (waterlogging, heat, 4 • C and NaCl) and biotic stress (Pseudomonas Syringae pv. Actinidiae, Psa) could induce the expression of AdRAP2.3 gene in kiwi fruit. Overexpression of the AdRAP2.3 gene conferred waterlogging stress tolerance in transgenic tobacco plants. When completely submerged, the survival rate, fresh weight, and dry weight of transgenic tobacco lines were significantly higher than those of wile type (WT). Upon the roots being submerged, transgenic tobacco lines grew aerial roots earlier. Overexpression of AdRAP2.3 in transgenic tobacco improved the pyruvate decarboxylase (PDC) and alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) enzyme activities, and improved the expression levels of waterlogging mark genes NtPDC, NtADH, NtHB1, NtHB2, NtPCO1, and NtPCO2 in roots under waterlogging treatment. Overall, these results demonstrated that AdRAP2.3 might play an important role in resistance to waterlogging through regulation of PDC and ADH genes in kiwi fruit.
1-Aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid is a potent and selective ligand for the glycine modulatory site on the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor complex. This compound blocks (ED50 234 mg/kg) the convulsions and deaths produced by N-methyl-D-aspartate (125 mg/kg) in a dose dependent fashion. In contrast, 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid does not protect mice against convulsions induced by pentylenetetrazole (80 mg/kg), strychnine (2 mg/kg), bicuculline (6 mg/kg), or maximal electroshock (50 mA, 0.2 s), and does not impair motor performance on either a rotarod or horizontal wire at doses of up to 2 g/kg. The methyl- and ethyl- esters of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid are 5- and 2.3-fold more potent, respectively, than the parent compound in blocking the convulsant and lethal effects of N-methyl-D-aspartate. However, these esters are several orders of magnitude less potent (IC50 greater than 40 microM) than 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid as inhibitors of strychnine-insensitive [3H] glycine binding, indicating that conversion to the parent compound may be required to elicit an anticonvulsant action. These findings suggest that 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylates may be useful in the treatment of neuropathologies associated with excessive activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor coupled cation channels.
Aminomethylphosphinic acid (7), protected at nitrogen as the imine derived from benzophenone and at phosphorus as the diethylacetal and ethyl ester [i.e. (6)], undergoes facile LDA-induced alkylation. Treatment with primary alkyl halides affords, on product hydrolysis, a versatile route to phosphinic analogues of α-amino carboxylic acids. Analogues of alanine, valine, leucine, phenylalanine, tyrosine, histidine, and aspartic and glutamic acids are thus prepared; the phosphonic histidine analogue (23b) can be prepared similarly from the imine phosphonate diester (21). Intra- and inter-molecular dialkylation reactions provide analogues of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (14) and 2,6-diaminoheptanedioic acid (16). Benzyl bromide alkylation of (25a) and (30a), where the nitrogen is protected as the imine of the 2-hydroxypinan-3-one chiral auxiliary (24) or (29), is diastereospecific leading to asymmetric synthesis of either (+)- or (–)-phenylalanine analogues; this selectivity is compared to that shown by the corresponding chiral imine phosphonate (25b) and imine carboxylate (25c).
Most clinically effective antidepressant drugs (ADs) have readily demonstrable effects on the disposition or metabolism of biogenic amines such as norepinephrine, serotonin, and dopamine (1). However, over the past five years, converging lines of evidence indicate that glutamatergic neurotransmission is also affected by ADs (for review see: 2). Furthermore, functional NMDA antagonists (ie. compounds that block or impair activity at the NMDA subtype of glutamate receptor) have been shown to cause AD-like actions (3–8). For example, uncompetitive NMDA antagonists (eg. dizocilpine, memantine) (9,10,7), competitive NMDA antagonists (eg. AP-7, CGP 37849, CGP 39551) (7,11), a polyamine site antagonist (eliprodil) (12), and a glycine partial agonist, 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC), (7,8) all mimic clinically effective agents in preclinical tests (e.g. forced swim and tail suspension) predictive of antidepressant action. Moreover, chronic treatment with dizocilpine, ACPC, and eliprodil downregulate beta-adrenoceptors in rodent cortex (3,6,12), an effect that has sometimes been considered to play an important role in the mechanism of antidepressant action.
Lumbar subarachnoid injection of dynorphin A causes an ischemia-induced neuronal degeneration and persistent hindlimb paralysis. The protective effects of a variety of competitive and non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists indicate that activation of the NMDA receptor complex is essential for dynorphin A-induced spinal cord injury. 1-Aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC) is a high affinity, partial agonist at strychnine-insensitive glycine receptors associated with the NMDA receptor complex. Pretreatment of rats with ACPC (100 and 200 mg/kg, i.p., 30 min prior to dynorphin A) significantly eliminated the persistent hindlimb motor deficits and neuropathological changes produced by 20 nmol of this peptide. The neuroprotective effects of ACPC (100 mg/kg, i.p.) were abolished by parenteral administration of glycine (800 mg/kg, 30 min prior to ACPC), consistent with other in vivo and in vitro studies indicating that the pharmacological actions of ACPC are effected through strychnine-insensitive glycine receptors. When given instead as six daily injections (200 mg/kg, i.p.) followed by an injection-free day, ACPC also significantly improved neurological recovery following dynorphin-A injection. These results support earlier indications that: (1) activation of the NMDA receptor complex plays a critical role in mediating dynorphin A-induced rat spinal cord injury; (2) ACPC provides an effective means of antagonizing excitotoxic phenomena; and (3) chronic administration of ACPC can elicit a persistent change in the NMDA receptor complex.
Publisher Summary 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC) has the properties of an agonist, and it permits normal function to occur under physiological conditions. It is found that in the absence of glycine, ACPC potentiates NMDA-induced currents but only to 80% of the amplitude obtained by glycine. The neuroprotective action of ACPC has been demonstrated in animal models of stroke, myocardial infarct, and spinal cord. It is observed that ACPC is neuroprotective in animal models of global ischemia as determined by increased animal survival, reduction of neuronal cytotoxicity, and reduction of neurological defects and seizures. This compound is equally effective when administered before, immediately before, or after the onset of ischemia. ACPC is also active in several animal models of anxiety such as the elevated plus maze and pup vocalizations following isolation from the mother. Under therapeutic conditions, ACPC will have a favorable side-effect profile relative to other antidepressants and neuroprotective agents.
Glycine (800 mg/kg ip) abolished the antimmobility effect of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC) given both ip (400 mg/kg) and ihp (30 micrograms) in the forced swimming test in rats, but did not affect the anticonflict activity of ACPC (200 mg/kg ip or 10 micrograms ihp) in the conflict drinking test.
Abstract Condensation of the new chiral glycine equivalent 10 with aldehydes at room temperature in the presence of K 2 CO 3 under solid–liquid phase-transfer-catalysed conditions afforded stereoselectively new chiral ( Z )-α,β-didehydroamino acid (DDAA) derivatives with oxazinone structure 14 . These systems have been used in diastereoselective cyclopropanation reactions for the synthesis of enantiomerically pure 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acids (ACCs) such as (−)- allo -norcoronamic and (−)- allo -coronamic acids.
A peptidomimetic isolated having a sequence of formula (I), including tautomers, solvates A-Z1-Z2-Z3-Z4-Z5-Z6-Z7-Z8-Z9-Z10-Z11-B wherein A represents the groups - NH-R1, R3-CO-, R3-O-CO- or R3-SO2-, where R1 represents hydrogen, or (C1-C10) straight or branched alkyl chain optionally substituted; R3 is selected from alkyl groups (C1-C10) alkyl, (C3-C6), aryl, heteroaryl or arylalkyl; B represents -COOR2, -CONHR2 or CH2OR2 where R2 represents H, optionally substituted groups selected from a linear or branched alkyl group (C1-C10), aryl or aralkyl; Z1 to Z11 represent natural or unnatural amino acids connected by amide linkage, where Z1 represents L-Histidine (H), DHistidina (dH) or urocanic acid (UA); ** ** Formula urocanic acid (UA) Z2 represents a naturally occurring amino acid or unnatural selected from the group comprising L-Serine (S), D-Serine (dS), L-Alanine (A), D-Alanine (dA ), α-methylproline (α-me-Pro) acid, α-amino-isobutyric (Aib), 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACP), 1-amino-cyclopentanecarboxylic acid (APP); ** ** Formula Z3 represents L-Glutamine (GIn; Q), D-Glutamine (dQ) or compounds of formula II (CNB or HFI); ** ** Formula 2-Amino-4-cyano-butyric acid (CNB) Hexafluoroleucina (HFI) Z4 represents Glycine (G) or unnatural amino acid (ACP) 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid or 1-amino-cyclopentanecarboxylic acid (APP); Z5 represents a naturally occurring amino acid or unnatural comprising a hydroxylated side chain; Z5 preferred is L-Threonine (T), D-Threonine (dT), L-Allo-threonine (allo-Thr, allo-T), D-allothreonine (d-allo-Thr; D-allo-T); Z6 represents an amino acid of natural or unnatural origin with a carbon alpha disubstituted having two side chains, where each can be independently an alkyl or optionally substituted aryl or an aralkyl group wherein the substituents may be selected from one or more groups alkyl or one or more halo groups;
Alpha helices are useful scaffolds to build biologically active peptides. The intrinsic stability of an alpha-helix is a key feature that can be successfully designed, and it is governed by the constituting amino acid residues. Their individual contributions to helix stability are given, according to Lifson-Roig theory, by their w parameters, which are known for all proteinogenic amino acids, but not for non-natural ones. On the other hand, non-natural, conformationally-restricted amino acids can be used to impart biochemical stability to peptides intended for in vivo administration. Efficient design of peptides based on these amino acids requires the previous determination of their w parameters. We begin here this task by determining the w parameters of two restricted analogs of alanine: (alpha-methyl)alanine and 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid. According to their w values (alpha-methyl)alanine is almost as good a helix forming residue as alanine, while 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid is, similarly to proline, a helix breaker.
Abstract A conditioned place preference paradigm was used to assess the potential rewarding properties of the uncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonist, MK-801 (dizolcipine), the two competitive NMDA receptor antagonists, CGP 37849 ( d l -( E )-2-amino-4-methyl-5-phosphono-3-pentonoic acid) and its ( R )-enantiomer CGP 40116, as well as the partial agonist at strychnine-insensitive glycine receptors, ACPC (1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid). MK-801 (0.3 mg/kg), CGP 37849 (1.25–10 mg/kg) and CGP 40116 (1.25–10 mg/kg), administered in association with either the initially non-preferred or initially preferred side of the two-arm chamber, caused a significant increase in the time spent on that side in a post-conditioning test. In contrast, ACPC did not support the conditioned place preference. Thus, the time spent on the drug-associated side following conditioning with ACPC (50–400 mg/kg) did not significantly differ from that measured in the pre-conditioning test, irrespective of whether it was associated with the initially non-preferred black side or the initially preferred white side. These results are consistent with both clinical and pre-clinical data demonstrating differences in psychopharmacological properties among compounds acting at the multiple, allosteric regulatory sites on the NMDA receptor complex. Moreover, these results indicate that the abuse potential of ACPC, which acts as a functional NMDA receptor antagonist, may be lower than that of either uncompetitive or competitive NMDA receptor antagonists.
The enhanced ultraviolet-B (UV-B) radiation caused by ozone depletion may exert deleterious effects on plants. Therefore, studies on the effect of UV-B radiation on plants, as well as studies on the methods for alleviating the deleterious effects by chemical control, are of great significance. In this study, after soybean (Glycine max) seedlings were exposed to UV-B radiation (10.2 and 13.8kJ m(-2)day(-1)) for 5 days and the followed 6 days of restoration, respectively, the effects of 20mg L(-1) lanthanum (III) [La(III)] on leaf phenotype, photosynthetic rate, and production of ethylene and reactive oxygen species (ROS) were investigated. The results indicated that the exposure to 10.2 and 13.8kJ m(-2)day(-1) UV-B radiation could cause injury to the leaf phenotype, and lead to the decrease in the content of chlorophyll and the net photosynthetic rate, and the increase in the contents of ROS, ethylene and 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid, and 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid synthase activity in soybean seedlings. Following the withdrawal of the enhanced UV-B radiation, the above mentioned parameters gradually recovered, and the recovery of soybean seedlings exposed to 10.2kJ m(-2)day(-1) UV-B radiation was faster than those in soybean seedlings exposed to 13.8kJ m(-2)day(-1) UV-B radiation. The leaf injury and the changes in the above indices that were induced by the enhanced UV-B radiation, especially at 10.2kJ m(-2)day(-1), were alleviated after the pretreatment of soybean seedlings with 20mg L(-1) La(III). The results of the correlation analysis demonstrated that the injury to the leaf phenotype and the decrease in the photosynthetic rate of soybean seedlings were correlated with the increase in the ROS content that was induced by ethylene in soybean seedlings. The pretreatment with 20mg L(-1) La(III) alleviated the injury caused by the enhanced UV-B radiation through the regulation of the ROS production.
[3H]1-Aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC) exhibits high affinity, specific binding to strychnine-insensitive glycine receptors. In extensively washed rat forebrain membranes, the specific binding of [3H]ACPC was optimal at 25 degrees C in the presence of 10 mM MgCl2. Comparable levels of specific [3H]ACPC binding were obtained using centrifugation and filtration for separation of bound from free radioligand. [3H]ACPC labels two sites with Kdl and Bmax1 values of 129 +/- 34 nM and 2.30 +/- 0.37 pmol/mg protein and Kd2 and Bmax2 values of 7.26 +/- 1.69 microM and 20.6 +/- 2.2 pmol/mg protein for the high and low affinity sites, respectively. The Kd of [3H]ACPC (66 nM) estimated under non-equilibrium conditions (koff = 8.91 +/- 0.78 x 10(-3) s-1; kon = 1.35 x 10(-4) nM-1 s-1) was similar to the value obtained for the high affinity site obtained by equilibrium binding. The Kd1 of[3H]ACPC is in good agreement with the previously reported Ki values of ACPC to inhibit the binding of other glycinergic ligands including [3H]glycine, [3H]5,7-dichlorokynurenic acid (5,7-DCKA) and [3H]L-689,560 ((+/-)-4-(trans)-2-carboxy-5,7-dichloro-4- phenylaminocarbonylamino-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinoline). Moreover, the potencies of a series of glycine site ligands, including glycine. ACPC, 1-aminocyclobutanecarboxylic acid (ACBC), 5,7-DCKA, 7-chlorokynurenic acid (7-CKA), R(+)-3-amino-1-hydroxy-2- pyrrolidine (HA-966) and D-serine, to inhibit [3H]ACPC binding were highly correlated with their potencies to inhibit [3H]glycine and [3H]5,7-DCKA binding (r2 = 0.98-0.51). These results demonstrate that [3H]ACPC is a useful tool for examining the neurochemical and pharmacological properties of strychnine-insensitive glycine receptors.
Although intact fruits of unripe cantaloupe (Cucumis melo L.) produce very little ethylene, a massive increase in ethylene production occurred in response to excision. The evidence indicates that this wound ethylene is produced from methionine via 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACC) as in ripening fruits. Excision induced an increase in both ACC synthase and the enzyme converting ACC to ethylene. Ethylene further increased the activity of the enzyme system converting ACC to ethylene. The induction by ethylene required a minimum exposure of 1 hour; longer exposure had increasingly larger effect. The response was saturated at approximately 3 microliters per liter ethylene and was inhibited by Ag+. Neither ethylene nor ACC had a promotive or inhibitory effect on ACC synthase beyond the effect attributable to wounding.
Under the action of the appropriate synthase from ripe tomatoes a 1∶1 mixture of (3S, 4R)-[3,4-2H2] and (3R, 4S)-[3,4-2H2]-(2S)-adenosylmethionine is transformed into a 1∶1 mixture of the two meso forms of [2H2]-1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid, a result which proves the operation of an inversion mechanism and which is consistent with direct nucleophilic displacement of the leaving group in the substrate.
Abstract. Medicinal plants are widely used in traditional medicine because plant secondary metabolites have been shown to benefit a broad spectrum of health conditions. Lemon balm, Melissa officinalis L., a member of the mint family, is native to Europe and is well known for its ability to reduce stress and anxiety, promote sleep, and ease pain and discomfort associated with digestion. In various plant species, strong anthocyanin induction is triggered by sucrose, but not by other sugars or osmotic stress; however, the mechanisms that induce anthocyanin accumulation in lemon balm leaves in response to sucrose and phytohormones remain unclear. In this study, we investigated the mechanisms that lead to increased levels of flavonoids in lemon balm plants. We observed that sucrose significantly increases the level of flavonoids in lemon balm plants and that sucrose induction appears to be mediated by the phytohormones abscisic acid and ethylene. We also identified delphinidin as the anthocyanidin that is primarily enriched in leaves grown in high-sucrose medium. Finally, we observed that reactive oxygen species levels are positively correlated with sucrose-mediated anthocyanin accumulation. Taken together, our results demonstrate that the level of flavonoids in lemon balm can be increased significantly and that plants such as lemon balm could potentially be used to prevent diseases that have been purported to be caused by free radical damage. Chemical abbreviations used: ABA, (+)-cis, transabscissic acid; ACC, 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid; CHI, chalcone isomerase; CHS, chalcone synthase; DPPH, 2, 2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl; GA, gibberellic acid; IAA, indole-3-acetic acid.
The Porsolt swim test (PST) was used to assess behavioral effects following acute or chronic treatment with two N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) glycine partial agonists, 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC), and d-cycloserine (DCS). Consistent with previous findings in mice, single intravenous doses of ACPC in rats produced a significant, dose-dependent reduction in immobility in the PST compared to saline. Single dose DCS also elicited significant dose-dependent reductions in PST immobility times. Single-dose ACPC or DCS (200 mg/kg) reduced immobility ( p < 0.05) by 26 or 30%, respectively, compared to saline. However, multiple dosing with either ACPC or DCS (6 daily doses, 200 mg/kg) produced an apparent behavioral adaptation, as the immobility data were indistinguishable from chronic saline administration. Moreover, pretreatment with a 5-day course of ACPC or DCS promoted the development of a behavioral cross-tolerance following a sixth dose of DCS or ACPC, respectively. The development of a behavioral tolerance in the PST following chronic therapy of these drugs appears to be a general feature of glycine partial agonists. In toto, these findings support the hypothesis that chronic administration of NMDA glycine partial agonists produces a behavioral tolerance putatively through an adaptation of the NMDA receptor complex.
(S,E)-4-Amino-5-fluoropent-2-enoic acid (6) is synthesized in six steps starting from the known gamma-aminobutyric acid aminotransferase (gamma-Abu-T) inactivator, (S)-4-amino-5-fluoropentanoic acid (1). Compound 6 is a mechanism-based inactivator of gamma-Abu-T: time-dependent inactivation is saturatable and protected by substrate; thiols do not protect the enzyme from inactivation; no enzyme activity returns upon dialysis. This compound (6) binds 50 times more tightly to gamma-Abu-T than does the saturated analogue (1). No transamination of 6 occurs prior to inactivation. However, five molecules of 6 are required to inactivate the enzyme with concomitant release of five fluoride ions. Therefore, four molecules are being converted to product for each inactivation event. (E)-3-(1-Aminocyclopropyl)-2-propenoic acid is synthesized in seven steps from 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid. It is prepared as a cyclopropyl derivative of the proposed intermediate in the inactivation of gamma-Abu-T by 6. The cyclopropyl derivative, however, is a noncompetitive inhibitor and does not inactivate the enzyme. This study shows the usefulness and hazards of incorporation of a trans double bond into potential gamma-Abu-T inactivators.
Inasmuch as the molecule of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACC) possesses reflective symmetry but lacks rotational symmetry, the two chemically alike methylene groups can be distinguished by a stereospecific enzyme. To determine whether ACC conversion to ethylene by plant tissues proceeds in a stereospecific fashion, the four stereoisomers of 1-amino-2-ethylcyclopropanecarboxylic acid (AEC) were administered to postclimacteric apple (Malus sylvestris Mill., var. Golden Delicious), excised preclimacteric cantaloupe (Cucumis melo L., var. reticulatis Naud cv. PMR-45), and etiolated mung bean (Vigna radiata L., Wilczek, var. Berken) hypocotyls. In each case (1R,2S)-AEC was the preferred substrate yielding 1-butene. In contrast, all AEC isomers were converted equally well to butene by chemical oxidation using NaOCl. Both ACC and AEC appear to be substrates for the same enzyme since both reactions are inhibited in parallel by N2 or Co2+, both reactions are induced in parallel by excision, and when both substrates are present simultaneously each will act as an inhibitor with respect to the other. The aforementioned observations indicate that ACC is stereospecifically converted to ethylene. For AEC to be the most active precursor of 1-butene, the ethyl substituent should be trans to the carboxyl group and the pro-(S) methylene group should be unsubstituted. This observation leads to the suggestion that the enzyme interacts with amino, carboxyl, and pro-(S) methylene groups, a configuration corresponding to a l-amino acid. This view is consistent with the observation that the l-forms of alanine and methionine inhibit the conversion of ACC to ethylene more than the corresponding d-amino acids in the mung bean hypocotyl system.
Abstract A diastereoselective and enantioselective synthesis of (Z)-1-benzoylamino-2-tritylsulfanylcyclopropanecarboxylic acid derivatives 8a,b and 9a,b was achieved starting from (−)- or (+)-menthyl 2-benzoylamino-3-tritylsulfanylacrylates 3a,b. Compounds 3 were reacted with diazomethane giving the corresponding pyrazolines 4a,b and 5a,b. These compounds, on melting, were transformed, under steric control, into the cyclopropaneamino acid derivatives (R,R)-8a,b and (S,S)-9a,b. The synthesis of a large class of chiral 2-S-alkyl-1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid derivatives is possible after removing the trityl protecting group and subsequent alkylation reactions.
A gas chromatographic-mass spectrometric method is described for the determination of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid in mouse urine using the 2,2,3,3-[2H4] isotopolog as an internal standard. Samples (0.1 ml) were extracted using an exchange resin, then derivatized with pentafluoropropanol and pentafluoropropionic anhydride at 100 degrees C for 25 min. Gas chromatography was performed on a (5% phenyl)methylpolysiloxane column and detection was by selected-ion monitoring of M-CO2CH2CF2CF3 fragment ions. The method provided high response linearity (mean r = 0.999) and precision (< 5% coefficient of variation). After orally dosing mice with 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (300 mg/kg), 46 and 10% of the dose was excreted unchanged in the 0-24 h and 24-48 h urines, respectively.
Recently, we have shown that 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC) acts simultaneously as a high affinity full glycine agonist and a low affinity glutamate site competitive antagonist for NMDA receptor channels. In this paper, we have attempted to determine the subunit specificity and mechanism of action of a different putative cyclic partial agonist, D-cycloserine (DCS). NMDA receptor currents were measured utilizing the two-electrode voltage clamp technique on Xenopus oocytes injected with NR1-1a cRNA and either NR2A, NR2B or NR2C cRNA. Efficacies of DCS were 35-68% of glycine controls for channels containing NR1-1a and NR2A or NR2B subunits, but channels containing NR2C subunits had efficacies greater than glycine controls (192%). Unlike ACPC, DCS efficacy does not increase with increasing NMDA concentration; however, the lowered efficacy elicited by DCS results solely through its interaction with the glycine binding site. The efficacy of DCS was pH sensitive for NR2A or NR2B-containing channels, but not for channels containing NR2C. From this, we suggest that the protonated and deprotonated forms of DCS when bound, probably open NMDA channels with different efficiency. Two models compatible with these results are presented.
From a variety of undifferentiated plant cell suspensions, 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid-dependent cells of sunflower (Helianthus annuus L. Spanners Allzweck) produced large quantities of ethylene. The maximum rate was about 1 nanomole × gram fresh weight−1 × hour−1 during the exponential growth phase. The action of various compounds known to interfere with ethylene formation in plant tissue was studied in sunflower cell suspensions. The influence on ethylene, 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACC), and N-malonyl-ACC (MACC) levels suggested that the final steps in ethylene synthesis resemble those of other plant systems. This makes sunflower cells suitable for analyzing the effects of biologically active compounds on cellular ethylene biosynthesis. In particular, plant growth retardants of the norbornenodiazetine and triazole type inhibited ethylene production of sunflower cells. On the other hand, the ACC level was considerably elevated while that of MACC did not change significantly. It is assumed that the conversion of ACC to ethylene catalyzed by the ethylene-forming enzyme was influenced.
1-Aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid derivatives are synthesized from readily available dehydroamino acid derivatives via sulfur ylide. A range of different ylides are employed and the corresponding aminocyclopropanes are afforded with reasonable diastereoselection in good yields.
The competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist [3H]3-((+-)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)propyl-1-phosphonic acid ([3H]CPP) interacts with two discrete binding sites, one of high- and the other of low-affinity, on rat forebrain synaptic plasma membranes. The high affinity site exhibited a Kd of 101.5 nM and a Bmax of 2.01 pmol/mg, while for the low affinity site the Kd was 4.11 microM with a Bmax of 19.7 pmol/mg. The glycine site antagonists 3-amino-1-hydroxy-2-pyrrolidone (HA-966), 1-aminocyclobutanecarboxylic acid (ACBC), the glycine site agonist 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACC) and glycine itself (as well as the polyamines spermine and spermidine), enhanced [3H]CPP binding. When subjected to saturation analysis, this enhancement was found primarily to involve an increase in the affinity of the high affinity component of [3H]CPP binding. Neither of the parameters of the low affinity component of binding were affected. Although a similar enhancement was observed with the polyamines, the effects of these two classes of ligands were additive, consistent with their having actions at different recognition sites on the NMDA receptor complex.
The selective affinity of [carboxyl-11C]-1-aminocyclopentanecarboxylic acid (ACPC) for tumor tissue has led us to study the tumor-localizing characteristics of a series of alicyclic alpha-amino acid analogs of ACPC. The tissue distributions of [14C]-1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid, 1-aminocyclobutanecarboxylic acid (ACBC), 1-aminocyclohexanecarboxylic acid, 1-amino-2-methylcyclopentanecarboxylic acid were compared with that of ACPC in Buffalo rats bearing Morris 5123C hepatomas. ACPC and ACBC were found to have significantly higher tumor-to-nontumor concentration ratios than the other four amino acids. ACBC generally had higher tumor-to-nontumor ratios than did ACPC, significantly so for muscle, kidney, and testis and marginally so for blood. These results suggest that [carboxyl-11C]ACBC may be a better agent than [carboxyl-11C]ACPC for tumor imaging by positron tomography.
1-Aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (Ac3c) is a constrained α amino acid residue that exhibits peculiar conformational characteristics. The aim of the present study is to provide a deeper understanding of these features to be used as guidance to decide when to choose Ac3c as a building block for the design of peptide and protein surrogates. The whole Ramachandran plot of the Ace-Ac3c-NCH3 dipeptide was investigated at the Hartree–Fock level using a 6-31G(d) basis set and the most favorable structures were assessed on this surface by energy minimization. These results were subsequently used as a reference to generate specific molecular mechanics parameters for Ac3c compatible with the parm94 set of the AMBER force field. The effect of water as a solvent on the conformational profile of the dipeptide was also assessed using the Miertus–Scrocco–Tomasi self-consistent reaction-field model at the Hartree–Fock level using a 6-31G(d) basis set and using the AM1 semiempirical method. The conformational profile of the Ac3c dipeptide can be characterized by two symmetric low-energy regions for values of φ around ±80° with a wide range of values for ψ ranging from −40 to 180°, with the lower areas located at low values of ψ. Solvent effects do not alter the features of the conformational map, but a shift of the two absolute minima to (φ, ψ) values near (±90°, 0°) can be observed. These results are in accord with all experimental evidence and with the known tendency of Ac3c to induce β-turn conformations in peptides.
Two diastereomers of conformationally constrained dipeptides with a trans-2,3-diaryl-1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid residue were synthesized from L-Phenylalanine methyl ester and racemic 1-(4-Methoxy-phenyl)-2,5-diphenyl-6-oxa-4-aza-spirohept-4-en-7-one utilized the oxazolone method,and the structures of them were studied by means of X-ray single crystal diffraction analysis.
A reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatographic method for the analysis of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC) from plasma or brain tissue is described. Samples were deproteinized with perchloric acid, centrifuged, alkalinized with potassium hydroxide and recentrifuged. The supernatants were derivatized with o-phthaldialdehyde and injected onto a C18 3-μm column (100 mm × 4 mm I.D.) pumped with 1 ml/min methanol—acetonitrile—0.1 M sodium phosphate buffer pH 6.0 (28:5:67, v/v). The retention times for ACPC and the internal standard were 15 and 31 min, respectively. The minimum detectable amount of ACPC was 0.08 nmol. The extraction recovery of ACPC (2.7–270 nmol) from spiked plasma or brain tissue ranged from 88 to 109%. The intra- and inter-day coefficients of variation for 27 nmol ACPC were 3.9 and 4.9%, respectively. This method was utilized to obtain preliminary pharmacokinetic parameters following ACPC administration to mice.
Chronic treatment with 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC) but not with dizocilpine or imipramine produces desensitization to the behavioral response in ACPC challenge in the forced swim test (forced swim test). The mechanism by which ACPC produces this effect is unclear and may depend upon either its functional antagonist or its agonist properties at the NMDA receptor. We now report that chronic treatment with glycine or ACPC desensitizes the behavioral effect of challenge with ACPC in the forced swim test. The desensitization of the acute effects of ACPC cannot be explained by the presence of residual glycine because 24 h after the last of 14 daily glycine injections (i.e. the time of forced swim test) cortical and hippocampal glycine concentrations were unchanged. Likewise, the affinity of glycine to displace specific [3H]5,7-DCKA binding to glycine sites of the NMDA receptor complex was unchanged by chronic glycine administration. These results support the hypothesis that antidepressants produce adaptation of the NMDA receptor complex by mechanisms other than simply increasing synaptic glycine concentrations. Moreover, these results indicate that the behavioral adaptation in the forced swim test induced by chronic treatment with ACPC results from its agonist properties.
At a concentration of 10−5 mol · L−1 the triazole-type growth retardant BAS 111..W completely inhibited the transiently elevated ethylene production in the exponential growth phase of heterotrophic sunflower cell suspensions. This effect, which could not be restored by adding gibberellin A3, was accompanied by transiently increased levels of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACC) in the cells, which was increasingly converted to N-malonyl-ACC. Thus, the reactions from ACC to ethylene catalyzed by the ethylene-forming enzyme appeared to be blocked by the retardant. Concomitantly, higher endogenous levels of free spermidine and particularly spermine were found over control, whereas free putrescine, the direct precursor of both polyamines, simultaneously decreased. We assume that the remaining S-adenosylmethionine from ethylene biosynthesis was increasingly incorporated into spermidine and finally spermine. A further relation appears to exist between the reduced ethylene production and enhanced levels of cytokinins in the cells. The application of both BAS 111..W and aminoethoxyvinylglycine depressed ethylene formation while immunoreactive cytokinins from isopentenyladenosine-, trans-zeatin ribo-side-, and dihydrozeatin riboside-type increased. By additional treatment with ACC, the effects could partially be reversed. On the other hand, stimulation of ethylene production by ACC alone or ethephon considerably lowered cytokinin levels.
14 For example, the first synthesis of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid 5 reported in 1922, 15 was accomplished by alkaline hydrolysis of cyclopropanespirohydantoin 6, which was obtained by Hofmann degradation of the amide functionality in cyclopropane-1,1-dicarboxamide. Treatment of the resulting hydantoic acid 7 with nitrous acid furnished carbamic acid 8, which upon spontaneous loss of carbon dioxide formed aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid 5 in 60% yield (Scheme 1). Scheme 1. First synthesis of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid 5.
Abstract The stereospecific syntheses of trans-2,3-diaryl-1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid derivatives are reported. The key step is a 1,3-dipolar cycloaddition of phenyldiazomethane to (Z)-2-phenyl-4-arylidene-5(4H)-oxazolones, followed by the extrusion of nitrogen in situ.
1-Aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC) is a high affinity ligand at strychnine-insensitive glycine sites of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) channels and exhibits partial agonist properties in both biochemical and electrophysiological measures. While ACPC was reported active in animal models used to evaluate potential antidepressants and anxiolytics, its effects on learning and memory are unknown. In the present study we investigated the effects of ACPC on spatial learning in the Morris water maze. On a schedule of 12 learning trials, one trial per day, mature male Wistar rats (3 months of age) rapidly acquired the task. Electroconvulsive shocks applied after each of the learning trials markedly inhibited the consolidation of spatial memory. Administration of either a muscarinic agonist, arecoline (1 mg/kg) or ACPC (250 or 400 mg/kg) 20 min before each of the learning trials did not affect the acquisition of spatial learning. Aged (16 months old) male Wistar rats demonstrated difficulties in the acquisition of spatial learning task. In these subjects, ACPC administered 20 min before each of the learning trials at a dose of 400, but not 250 mg/kg, facilitated the acquisition of spatial memory as indicated on trials 3-5. ACPC did not affect the strength of spatial memory as assessed at the end of conditioning, by measuring swimming behavior of rats in the pool with platform removed. It is suggested that ACPC may alleviate learning deficits observed in the elderly.
Abstract ::: 1. The effect of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC), a partial agonist at the glycine site of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor complex that exhibits neuroprotective, anxiolytic and antidepressant-like actions, was investigated in a functional assay for presynaptic NMDA receptors. 2. NMDA (100 microM) produced a 36% increase of tritium efflux above basal efflux in rat hippocampal synaptosomes preincubated with [3H]-noradrenaline ([3H]-NA), reflecting a release of tritiated noradrenaline. This effect was prevented by 10 microM 7-chlorokynurenic acid, an antagonist of the glycine site of the NMDA receptor. 3. Glycine enhanced the effect of NMDA with Emax and EC50 values of 84 +/- 11% and 1.82 +/- 0.04 microM, respectively. ACPC potentiated the effect of NMDA on tritium overflow with a lower EC50 (43 +/- 6 nM) and a lower maximal effect (Emax = 40 +/- 9%) than glycine. Furthermore, ACPC (0.1 microM) shifted the EC50 of glycine from 1.82 microM to > or = 3 mM. 4. These results show that ACPC can reduce the potentiation by glycine of NMDA-evoked [3H]-NA release and hence, may act as an antagonist at the glycine site of presynaptic hippocampal NMDA receptors when the concentration of glycine is high.
1-Aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC) is a specific high affinity ligand (Ki -32 nM) at strychnine-insensitive glycine sites ) that has been reported to exhibit partial agonist activity in both neurochemical and electrophysiological (Watson & Lanthorn, 1990; Priestley & Kemp, 1994) studies. It has been hypothesized that if the glycine co-agonist site needs to be occupied for the activation of the NMDA receptor complex and this is also an absolute requirement in vivo, then a partial agonist such as ACPC could function as an NMDA antagonist in vivo Trullas et al., 1989) . In agreement with this hypothesis, and similarly to both competitive NMDA antagonists and use-dependent channel blockers, ACPC exhibited anticonvulsant , neuroprotective (Von Lubitz et al., 1992) , 1 Author for correspondence.
Exposing roots of plants to hypoxic conditions is known to greatly improve their anoxic stress tolerance. We previously showed that pre-treatment of wheat seedlings with an ethylene precursor, 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACC), enhanced their tolerance of oxygen-deficient conditions. Although ACC-pretreated seminal roots of wheat seedlings grown under oxygen-deficient conditions avoided root tip death, they elongated very little. In the present study, we assessed the effects of ethylene on the responses of adventitious roots of wheat seedlings to oxygen-deficient conditions. Lysigenous aerenchyma formation in the adventitious roots of wheat seedlings pretreated with ACC appeared to reduce tip death under oxygen-deficient conditions, but the adventitious roots, like the seminal roots, hardly elongated. We also found that adventitious roots that emerge in oxygen-deficient conditions continued to elongate even under such conditions. The adventitious roots emerged in oxygen-deficient conditions were found to have thicker root diameters than those emerged in aerated conditions. These results suggest that the adventitious roots with thicker root diameters can better cope with oxygen-deficient conditions. Measurements of the area of the lysigenous aerenchyma confirmed that the increased root diameters have a greater amount of air space generated by lysigenous aerenchyma formation.
Abstract The chemistry and biochemistry of several phytotoxins recently isolated from plant pathogenic bacterium and fungus are described in this paper. In Pseudomonas phytopathogens, several phytotoxins have been structurally confirmed. One of them, coronatine is an extracellular toxin produced by Pseudomonas syringae pv. atropurpurea , the incitant of the chocolate spot disease on Italian ryegrass. Coronatine induces necrosis with the chlorotic halo symptom of the disease in host leaves as well as in nonhosts and is thus nonspecific. Coronatine also induces marked hypertrophy on potato tuber tissues. From the culture fluid of the bacterium, coronatine was isolated. The structure and stereochemistry of coronatine were determined from spectroscopic data, x-ray analysis and synthesis of coronamic acid, the amino acid portion of coronatine. Since coronafacic acid, the acidic portion of coronatine, has been synthesized by intermolecular and intramolecular Diels-Alder reaction, a formal total synthesis of coronatine has been achieved. Stereoisomers and analogs of coronatine were synthesized by replacing the coronamic acid moiety with other amino compounds, and the hypertrophic response of potato tubers was examined. Stereospecific cleavage of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid in the formation of ethylene in fruit ripening was elucidated by the conversion of (+)-allocoronamic acid to 1-butene. Pyrenocine A and pyrenochaetic acid A are phytotoxins isolated from culture filtrates of Pyrenochaeta terrestris , a phytopathogenic fungus of pink root disease of onion. Synthesis of pyrenocine A and Pyrenochaetic acid A from the same starting material, 5-acetyl-4-methoxy-6-methyl-2-pyrone has been effected.
1-Aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC) is a partial agonist at the strychnine-insensitive glycine recognition site on the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor complex in the mammalian central nervous system with preclinical activity in animal models of neuroprotection and psychiatric illnesses. The pharmacokinetics of ACPC were studied in the rat, beagle dog, cynomolgus monkey, and human, and compared also with data from the literature for the mouse. Plasma elimination half-lives were 1.5, 2.5, 2.9, 20.3, and 5.9 h for the mouse, rat, monkey, dog, and human, respectively. Volume of distribution at steady state (0.74 L/kg) was constant across all species. Clearance values were consistent with glomerular filtration rates for all species, except in the dog, where clearance is consistent with 84% tubular reabsorption. Allometric relationships for clearance and half-life versus body weight confirmed the predictability of the pharmacokinetics of ACPC in the mouse, rat, monkey, and human. Continued clinical evaluation of ACPC as a neuroprotective agent and in a variety of psychiatric illnesses is warranted.
2,2-Dialkyl-1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acids, abbreviated as 2,2-dialkyl Acc's, are potential plant growth regulators which were synthesized by ring closure of α-chloro imines. The synthetic scheme leading to these Acc analogues entails a newly developed regiospecific synthesis of tertiary α-chloro ketimines, the trapping with cyanide of a transient Favorskii derived cyclopropylideneamine, and the hydrolytic conversion of 1-(N-tert-butylamino)-2,2-dialkylcyclopropanecarbonitriles into the title compounds
Phalaenopsis orchids have been regenerated by inducing protocorm-like bodies (PLBs) from etiolated leaf sections. However, the physiological and molecular mechanisms of secondary PLB development and subsequent proliferation have not been explored. Bisectionally cutting primary PLBs resulted in more secondary PLBs at 5 weeks, suggesting an embryogenic stem cell property imposed by wounding of primary PLB tissues. The ethylene precursors ethephon and 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid and the ethylene perception inhibitor silver nitrate increased PLB formation, while aminoethoxyvinylglycine decreased PLB formation. Ethylene content in wounded PLB explants increased over culture time in media containing ethylene precursors or inhibitors. mRNA levels of PhACS2, PhACS3, and PhACO were increased by ethephon and decreased by ethylene inhibitors. Expression of genes in the ethylene signaling pathway was enhanced following ethylene-precursor treatment and was mitigated by ethylene inhibitors during PLB proliferation. Transcription of PhETR and PhEIN3, as well as PhERS, PhCTR, and PhGTP, was significantly increased 12 h after ethylene treatment. Ethylene and physical wounding stimulated secondary PLB formation in Phalaenopsis, probably through ethylene biosynthesis and signal transduction.
Abstract A variety of hydrogen cyanide adducts of β-chloroaldimines using acetone cyanohydrin were prepared. The reactive behaviour of these α-amino-γ-chloronitriles towards bases was investigated with the aim to generate 1-aminocyclopropanecarbonitriles, which are precursors for the potentially plant growth regulating 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acids. The synthesis of 1-amino-2,2-dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylic acid (= 2,3-methanovaline) by a reaction sequence involving addition of hydrogen cyanide across β-chloroaldimines, ring closure to functionalized cyclopropanes and acidic hydrolysis was accomplished. Alternatively the hydrogen cyanide adducts of β-chloroaldimines were converted into α-(N-benzylidene)amino-γ-chloronitriles, which were ring closed with base and hydrolyzed to afford 1-amino-2,2-dialkylcyclopropanecarbonitriles, the latter serving again as substrates for the hydrolytic conversion into the corresponding 1-amino-2,2-dialkylcyclopropanecarboxylic acids (exemplified for 1-amino-2,2-dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylic acid).
ABSTRACT. Phalaenopsis orchids have been regenerated by inducing protocorm-like bodies (PLBs) from etiolated leaf sections. However, the physiological and molecular mechanisms of secondary PLB development and subsequent proliferation have not been explored. Bisectionally cutting primary PLBs resulted in more secondary PLBs at 5 weeks, suggesting an embryogenic stem cell property imposed by wounding of primary PLB tissues. The ethylene precursors ethephon and 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid and the ethylene perception inhibitor silver nitrate increased PLB formation, while aminoethoxyvinylglycine decreased PLB formation. Ethylene content in wounded PLB explants increased over culture time in media containing ethylene precursors or inhibitors. mRNA levels of PhACS2, PhACS3, and PhACO were increased by ethephon and decreased by ethylene inhibitors. Expression of genes in the ethylene signaling pathway was enhanced following ethylene-precursor treatment and was mitigated by ethylene inhibitors during PLB proliferation. Transcription of PhETR and PhEIN3, as well as PhERS, PhCTR, and PhGTP, was significantly increased 12 h after ethylene treatment. Ethylene and physical wounding stimulated secondary PLB formation in Phalaenopsis, probably through ethylene biosynthesis and signal transduction.
Sustained 20 h pre-exposure to 1 mM 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC, which was removed 30 min before addition of 25 microM glutamate) significantly reduced the subsequent neurotoxicity of glutamate in cultured forebrain and cerebellar neurons. The magnitude of neuronal protection was further enhanced if the neurons pretreated with ACPC were re-exposed to ACPC during glutamate challenge. These results closely resemble earlier findings with cultured spinal cord neurons and indicate that these primary cell culture preparations might be suitable for the assessment of the mechanism(s) underlying chronic ACPC-induced modification of the NMDA receptor complex.
Functional antagonists at the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor complex produce anti-depressant-like actions in preclinical models. Thus, an injection of a glycine partial agonist (1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid; ACPC), a competitive NMDA antagonist (2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoic acid; AP-7) or a use-dependent cation channel blocker (MK-801) reduced immobility in the forced swim test (FST) with efficacies comparable to imipramine (Trullas and Skolnick 1990). Seven daily injections of ACPC (200–400 mg/kg) abolished the effects of both this compound (200–1200 mg/kg) and AP-7 (200–300 mg/kg) in the FST. The loss in effectiveness of ACPC required 7 days of treatment to become fully manifest, and was reversed by discontinuing treatment. Other agents active in the FST (e.g. MK-801, imipramine, and nifedipine) were unaffected by this regimen. Moreover, ACPC and AP-7 remained active in the FST following repeated injections of MK-801, AP-7, or imipramine. Chronic treatment with ACPC did not affect its actions in the elevated plus-maze, but significantly attenuated the convulsant and lethal effects of NMDA (125 mg/kg). Tissue levels of ACPC indicate the modified behavioral responses produced by chronic treatment are not attributable to pharmacokinetic factors. These findings suggest repeated administration of ACPC may effect an “uncoupling” of NMDA and glycine receptors, resulting in an apparent desensitization of the behavioral actions of substances acting at these sites.
A series of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid derivatives and analogues have been synthesised as potential inhibitors of carboxypeptidase A. Whereas simple cyclopropylcarboxamido derivatives of Gly, Phe and Pro showed no indications of time-dependent. irreversible inhibition, benzamido-1-aminocyclopropane carboxamido-Phe and Pro were characterised as latent inhibitors. The former was also a substrate for carboxypeptidase A but the latter was purely an inhibitor. This behaviour suggested that cyclopropylketones should also be inhibitors of carboxypeptidase A; this suggestion was confirmed experimentally. Kinetic experiments showed surprisingly that the rate of inhibition is increased in the presence of substrate
