Abstract The role of sulfur species in the passivation of gold surface in cyanide and thiosulfate solutions was investigated using density functional theory (DFT). The interaction energy between various sulfur complexes as well as deposited sulfur allotropes with the gold surface were computed and the contribution of each specie to the formation of a passivated layer were compared. For this purpose, a new parameter was introduced to explain and understand the tendency of each sulfur complex to interact with the gold surface from a molecular point of view. It was observed that the ratio of the hydration to the binding energy (H/B) of each sulfur specie can be well correlated with the calculated interaction energy with the gold surface. This parameter could be effectively used to predict the interaction of each specie with a substance, only based on the structural characteristics of the specie. It has been also demonstrated that the theoretically calculated energies of interactions of sulfur complexes with the gold surface are well correlated with experimentally reported data. The results showed that S, S2−, polysulfides, tetrathionate, and sulfite species affect the gold leaching process directly through the passivation of the gold surface. Sulfate, dithionate, trithionate, and thiocyanate do not contribute to the passivation effect, although they indirectly affect the gold leaching process by consuming the oxygen and cyanide required to dissolve gold in the cyanidation process. The sulfur allotropes forming on the gold surface also passivate the gold surface and limit the access of the lixiviants required for the gold leaching process. The results could shed light on the mechanism of passivation of gold surface by sulfur species in gold leaching and this effect can be controlled by inhibiting the formation of main sulfur contributors in passivation process.
The type and the amount of end products resulting from sulfite reduction catalysed by a single partially purified desulfoviridin preparation from Desulfovibrio gigas were shown to depend upon the enzymic assay conditions employed. Both manometric and spectrophotometric assays were used, with reduced methyl viologen serving as the electron donor in each system. Trithionate, thiosulfate, tetrathionate and sulfide were identified as possible end products. In the manometric assays, sulfide production was favoured by high reduced methyl viologen concentrations, low sulfite concentrations and a pH value of 7.0 as opposed to 6.0. In the spectrophotometric assays, results approaching the stoichiometric conversion of sulfite to sulfide were obtained only at high initial reduced methyl viologen concentrations.
1. ::: ::: The polarographic behaviour of the thionates has been studied employing potassium iodide, potassium chloride, hydrochloric acid, and various buffers as electrolytes in the base solutions. The effect of incorporating 50% alcohol in the base solution has also been investigated. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: The results indicate that the reduction process is essentially an irreversible process with tri- and tetrathionates while the opposite effect is noticed with pentathionate. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: The tetrathionate shows the phenomenon of split wave which is practically absent in trithionate solutions. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 4. ::: ::: A method has been suggested for the estimation of thionates in a mixture based on the use of 50% alcohol in the base solutions. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 5. ::: ::: The mechanism of the reduction process has been discussed.
A study of the catalytic activity of copper(II) complexes (1:1) of 2,2′-bipyridine and several other similar chelating ligands having pyridine nuclei reveals that 2,2′-bipyridine-Cu(II) complex has the highest activity for oxidation of thiosulphate to sulphate by molecular oxygen at ambient temperatures. The activity is found to decrease with increasing interaction of the ligand with the metal ion as represented by the shift in νCC,CN due to chelation. Polystyrene-attached 2,2′-bipyridine containing more than one bipyridine per three styrene units has been prepared using porous polystyrene beads of size less than 38 μm. The kinetics of oxidation of thiosulphate by molecular oxygen in the presence of copper(II) complex of this polymer-bound ligand is well explained by a Langmuir-Hinshelwood type rate law, while a Rideal type rate law applies only at low concentrations of thiosulphate (<0.05 mol/1). Product distribution studies show that, besides oxidation to sulphate, a part of the thiosulphate is converted to tetrathionate and trithionate, which are not further oxidised to sulphate.
Polythionates (SxO62−) are important in redox transformations involving many sulfur compounds. Here we investigate the oxidation kinetics and mechanisms of trithionate and tetrathionate oxidation between pH 0.4 and pH 2 in the presence of Fe3+ and/or oxygen. In these solutions, Fe3+ plus oxygen oxidizes tetrathionate and trithionate at least an order of magnitude faster than oxygen alone. Kinetic measurements, coupled with density functional calculations, suggest that the rate-limiting step for tetrathionate oxidation involves Fe3+ attachment, followed by electron density shifts that result in formation of a sulfite radical and S3O30 derivatives. The overall reaction orders for trithionate and tetrathionate are fractional due to rearrangement reactions and side reactions between reactants and intermediate products. The pseudo-first order rate coefficients for tetrathionate range from 10−11 s−1 at 25°C to 10−8 s−1 at 70°C, compared to 2 × 10−7 s−1 at 35 °C for trithionate. The apparent activation energy (EA) for tetrathionate oxidation at pH 1.5 is 104.5 ± 4.13 kJ/mol. A rate law at pH 1.5 and 70°C between 0.5 and 5 millimolar [Fe3+] is of the form: ::: r=10−6.61±0.3[S4O62−]0.3±0.08[Fe3+]0.15±0.09 ::: where rate, r, is in units of mol L−1 s−1. In pH <1 solutions where trithionate forms by rearrangement of tetrathionate, trithionate oxidation is the rapid pathway for conversion of tetrathionate to sulfate. The kinetics of both trithionate and tetrathionate oxidation are several orders of magnitude slower than the formation of polythionates from thiosulfate in acidic, Fe3+-rich solutions.
The formation of thionates (thiosulfate, trithionate and tetrahionate) during the reduction of sulfate or sulfite was studied with four marine and four freshwater strains of sulfate-reducing bacteria. Growing cultures of two strains of the freshwater species Desulfovibrio desulfuricans formed up to 400 μM thiosulfate and 100 μM trithionate under conditions of electron donor limitation. Tetrathionate was observed in lower concentrations of up to 30 μM. Uncoupler-treated washed cells of the four freshwater strains formed thiosulfate and trithionate at low electron donor concentrations with sulfite in excess. In contrast, only one of four marine strains formed thionates. The freshwater strain Desulfobulbus propionicus transformed sulfite almost completely to thiosulfate and trithionate. The amounts produced increased with time, concentration of added sulfite and cell density. Tetrathionate was detected only occasionally and in low concentrations, and was probably formed by chemical oxidation of thiosulfate. The results confirm the diversity of the sulfite reduction pathways in sulfate-reducing bacteria, and suggest that thiosulfate and trithionate are normal by-products of sulfate reduction.
The bisulfite reductase (P582) from Desulfotomaculum nigrificans was purified to homogeneity as judged by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. By colorimetric methods of analysis, the products of bisulfite reduction by this enzyme were determined to be trithionate, thiosulfate, and sulfide. Of these, trithionate was consistently found to be the major product, whereas the latter two were formed in lesser quantities. When [(35)S]bisulfite was incorporated as substrate, no labeled sulfide was detected. Furthermore, when trithionate and thiosulfate were isolated from reaction mixtures and chemically degraded, (35)S was found in all three sulfur atoms of trithionate; however, only the inner sulfur atom of thiosulfate was radioactive. From these data we conclude that the bisulfite reductase of D. nigrificans reduces bisulfite to trithionate and that thiosulfate and sulfide are endogenous side products of the reaction.
Abstract A copper(II) complex of lightly cross-linked poly(4-vinyl pyridine) has been prepared and used as a catalyst for oxidation of thiosalts by molecular oxygen at ambient temperatures. This polymeric complex has been found to catalyse oxidation of thiosulphate, trithionate and tetrathionate to sulphate. A detailed study of the kinetics of oxidation of thiosulphate by molecular oxygen in the presence of this catalyst revealed that at 96.7 kPa total pressure and 30°C, resistance to the reaction using 106 – 149 μm-size particles is approximately equally divided between extraparticle mass transfer and the chemical activity of the complex. The mechanism of oxidation of thiosulphate has been suggested based on product distribution and kinetics. The rate of oxidation is not significantly affected by the activity of the reaction medium down to a pH of 2.0, but falls markedly as pH is reduced further.
The reduction of bisulfite by Desulfovibrio vulgaris was investigated. Crude extracts reduced bisulfite to sulfide without the formation (detection) of any intermediates such as trithionate or thiosulfate. When the particulate fractions was removed from crude extracts by high-speed centrifugation, the soluble supernatant fraction reduced bisulfite sequentially to trithionate, thiosulfate, and sulfide. Addition of particles or purified membranes to the soluble fraction restored the original activity demonstrated by crude extracts, i.e., reduction of bisulfite to sulfide without the formation of trithionate and/or thiosulfate. By using antiserum directed against bisulfite reductase, the reduction of bisulfite by crude extracts was inhibited. This finding, in addition to several recycling studies of thiosulfate reduction, provided evidence that bisulfite reduction by D. vulgaris operated through the pathway involving trithionate and thiosulfate as intermediates. The role of membranes in this process is discussed.
The reduction of bisulfite by Desulfovibrio vulgaris was investigated. Crude extracts reduced bisulfite to sulfide without the formation (detection) of any intermediates such as trithionate or thiosulfate. When the particulate fraction was removed from crude extracts by high-speed centrifugation, the soluble supernatant fraction reduced bisulfite sequentially to trithionate, thiosulfate, and sulfide. Addition of particles or purified membranes to the soluble fraction restored the original activity demonstrated by crude extracts, i.e., reduction of bisulfite to sulfide without the formation of trithionate and/or thiosulfate. By using antiserum directed against bisulfite reductase, the reduction of bisulfite by crude extracts was inhibited. This finding, in addition to several recycling studies of thiosulfate reduction, provided evidence that bisulfite reduction by D. vulgaris operated through the pathway involving trithionate and thiosulfate as intermediates. The role of membranes in this process is discussed.
In the first phase sulfate is activated via ATP sulfurylase (EC 2.7.7.4, ATP:sulfate adenylyltransferase) activity (1, 14, 21, 24), forming adenylylsulfate, which is subsequently reduced to (bi)sulfite plus AMP by adenylylsulfate reductase (15, 29, 31). The formation of adenylylsulfate and pyrophosphate, from ATP and sulfate, is a reversible reaction in favor of ATP and sulfate; however, the reaction is driven to the right by the hydrolysis of pyrophosphate by inorganic pyrophosphatase (2, 24, 39, 40) . The second phase of the dissimilatory reduction, involving the reduction of bisulfite to sulfide, has not been clearly established. The main issue has been whether or not bisulfite is directly reduced to sulfide without any detectable intermediates, or whether bisulfite is reduced through a pathway consisting of trithionate and thiosulfate as internediates as predicted by the earlier works t Present Address:
The electrolysis of a sodium thiosulfate solution was done with platinum electrodes. In neutral solution the thiosulfate was first converted into sulfate, sulfite, di-, tri-, and tetrathionates. The sulfite, tri-, and tetrathionates were finally oxidized to sulfate. In alkaline solution sulfite and trithionate formed as intermediates, and were completely oxidized to sulfate.
A desulfoviridin-type sulfite reductase having the alpha band at 638 nm was purified from Desulfovibrio africanus Benghazi (NCIB 8401) by chromatography on DEAE-cellulose, Sephadex G-200, and DEAE-Sepharose columns and by disc gel electrophoresis. The content of desulfoviridin in the soluble protein was estimated to be about 6% from the purification indexes. Like the typical desulfoviridin from D. vulgaris Miyazaki K, it formed mainly trithionate besides thiosulfate and sulfide in sulfite reduction coupled to hydrogenase and methyl viologen. No significant differences in the amino acid compositions, CD patterns in the UV (205-250 nm) region, and subunit structures were found, except for a pI value about 1 unit larger (pI 5.3). The split Soret (410 +/- 2 nm, less intense peak at 391 +/- 2 nm with a shoulder around 380 nm) and beta (584 +/- 2 nm) band maxima of the enzyme as isolated, and the visible absorption and fluorescence spectra of the acidic acetone-extracted chromophore were almost identical to those ascribed to sirohydrochlorin in spite of the reported difference in the native enzyme (alpha band maxima at 638 nm as against 628 +/- 2 nm in a typical desulfoviridin). Iron was the only significant chelatable metal contained in the chromophore. Some differences between africanus and vulgaris desulfoviridins were observed in the CD patterns in the UV to near UV region (250-340 nm) and also in the visible absorption spectra in the presence of dithionite.
The formation of adenosine-5'-phosphosulfate (APS) and its reduction to adenosine monophosphate and sulfite, by dissimilatory sulfate-reducing bacteria, have been well documented (6, 10, 11); however, the pathway of sulfite reduction to sulfide is not clearly understood. Trithionate and thiosulfate were reported to be intermediate compounds during sulfite reduction by Desulfovibrio vulgaris (7) and a reaction involving the formation of thiosulfate from bisulfite was described (13). Evidence was also presented showing that during sulfite reduction thiosulfate accumulated in reaction mixtures and subsequently disappeared. This was concomitant with a gradual increase in sulfide formation (3). These results suggest that suffite is reduced by D. vulgaris to sulfide through a pathway involving thiosulfate, and possibly, trithionate.
Some earlier synthesized copper selenide (Cu x Se) layers formed on the surface of polyamide 6 by sorption-diffusion method using potassium selenotrithionate (K2SeS2O6) as precursor of selenium were characterized by the XRD, XPS and SEM methods. According to the results of the SEM studies, the most uniform Cu x Se layers form at the 2.5 h polyamide seleniumized duration at the temperature of 60°C. The thickness of layers, which dependeds on the duration of seleniumization, changed in the range of 0.8–3.2 µm. The XRD patterns of not previously studied Cu x Se layers showed their phase composition of six copper selenides: Cu2Se, two phases of CuSe2, Cu3Se2, berzellianite, Cu2-x Se, and bellidoite Cu2Se. Analysis of the XRD and XPS data shows that the macrostructure and composition of the CuxSe layers depend on the conditions of formation of these layers. ::: Open image in new window
The reduction of iodine with azide, catalyzed by polythionates (tri-, tetra-, penta- and hexathionate) and thiosulfate, has been utilized as a postcolumn reaction for chromatographic determination of these sulfur oxyanions. The method is based on the separation of polythionates and thiosulfate on an octadecylsilica column with an acetonitrile–water (20:80, v/v) mobile phase (pH 5.0) containing 3 mM tetrapropylammonium hydroxide and 6 mM acetic acid, followed by photometric measurement of the residual iodine (as triiodide) from the catalytic postcolumn azide–iodine reaction after mixing a reaction solution containing azide and iodine with the column effluent. Chromatograms obtained for the sulfur oxyanions showed negative peaks as a result of the decrease in absorbance of background. The conditions for the catalytic postcolumn reaction of the sulfur oxyanions in the column effluents were established by varying the concentrations of azide, iodine, iodide and acetic acid in the reaction solution, and varying the flow-rate, reaction temperature and length of the reaction tube. The detection limits (defined as S/N=3) were 4.3 μM for trithionate, 0.10 μM for tetrathionate, 2.7 nM for pentathionate, 5.0 nM for hexathionate and 1.1 nM for thiosulfate. When compared with earlier methods, the proposed method gave a much higher sensitivity for the determination of two polythionates (penta- and hexathionate) and thiosulfate. This method was applied successfully to the analysis of polythionates and thiosulfate added to hot-spring water samples.
Some earlier synthesized copper selenide (Cu x Se) layers formed on the surface of polyamide 6 by sorption-diffusion method using potassium selenotrithionate (K 2 SeS 2 O 6 ) as precursor of selenium were characterized by the XRD, XPS and SEM methods. According to the results of the SEM studies, the most uniform Cu x Se layers form at the 2.5 h polyamide seleniumized duration at the temperature of 60 o C. The thickness of layers, which dependeds on the duration of seleniumization , changed in the range of 0.8-3.2 µm. The XRD patterns of not previously studied Cu x Se layers showed their phase composition of six copper selenides: Cu 2 Se, two phases of CuSe 2 , Cu 3 Se 2 , berzellianite, Cu 2-x Se, and bellidoite Cu 2 Se. Analysis of the XRD and XPS data shows that the macrostructure and composition of the Cu x Se layers depend on the conditions of formation of these layers .
Polymeric materials modified with inorganic materials are largely contributing to the progress in contemporary technology. Therefore the interest in them has increased for a number of years and is still growing after the discovery of their new physicochemical properties. Physicochemistry of solids determines the dependences between properties of the polymeric and the inorganic material, and the structure and chemical composition of the modified product. These relations are exploited in designing new composite materials of certain required functional (electric, magnetic, optical etc.) features. Application of modern technologies (synthesis, modification of surface layer) allows for preparation of plastics with a required structure and new, so far unattainable, functional properties. The modification of polymers by formation of thin layers of copper selenides on their surface leads to manufacturing of composites of different properties. Copper selenides are interesting semiconductors with various applications. The Cu 2-x Se films are typically p-type, highly conductive, semitransparent semiconductors with a band gap varying between 1.1 and 1.4 eV, suitable for solar energy conversion and, as semitransparent layers, in high speed detectors working within the visible range [1, 2] . Cu 2 Se is used as a window layer in solar cells, in photovoltaic cells of Schottky diodes [3, 4] , and as radiation filters [5] . The previous studies of the Cu x Se thin films focused mostly on their possible use in solar cells and superionic conductors [6, 7] . Polyamide (PA), as semi hydrophilic polymer, is capable of adsorbing ions of various electrolytes from aqueous solutions [8] . This fact enabled us to introduce the anions of selenotrithionate, SeS 2 O 6 2− [9] , containing divalent selenium atom of low oxidation state [10] . This broad variety of copper selenide phases presents some difficulties while studying the phase composition of polymers modified with copper chalcogenide layers.
The aim of this reaserch was to study the composition of the surface of PA films modified with the copper selenides layers (XPS and XRD) formed by the sorptiondiffusion method using potassium selenotrithionate, and to present the layers growth characteristics and their electrical properties.
Abstract Polythionates are formed by the incomplete oxidation of sulphide minerals in the grinding and flotation circuits, and particularly of those containing pyrite. Polythionate levels in the recycling water must be adjusted; otherwise, it can affect metal recoveries. The presence of different species, such as thiosulphate, trithionate, and tetrathionate in certain effluents can affect the environment. In this paper, an indirect method based on conductivity measurement for monitoring polythionate bio-oxidation is proposed. Firstly, the conductivity of acidic solutions containing polythionates is verified as the sum of the conductivities corresponding to acid and tetrathionate and, therefore, in synthetic solutions, polythionate concentrations can be estimated by simply measuring conductivity. In process water and cultures with background conductivity, polythionate concentrations are predicted from the linear relationship between polythionate concentration and the total conductivity of the system. Once the slope of the linear relationship is known, polythionate concentrations can be estimated, and therefore it is necessary to perform only chemical analysis at the beginning and at an intermediate point. The degradation of polythionates can be continuously recorded, and hence the kinetic study of a culture can be more easily and accurately performed.
Thiosulfate reductase was purified to an almost homogeneous state from Desulfovibrio vulgaris, strain Miyazaki F, by ammonium sulfate precipitation, chromatography on DEAE-Toyopearl, Ultrogel AcA 34, and hydroxylapatite, and disc electrophoresis. The specific activity was increased 580-fold over the crude extract. The molecular weight was determined by gel filtration to be 85,000-89,000, differing from those reported for thiosulfate reductases from other Desulfovibrio strains. The enzyme had no subunit structure. When coupled with hydrogenase and methyl viologen, it stoichiometrically reduced thiosulfate to sulfite and sulfide with consumption of hydrogen. It did not reduce sulfite or trithionate. Cytochrome c3 was active as an electron donor. More than 0.75 mM thiosulfate inhibited the enzyme activity. o-Phenanthroline and 2,2'-bipyridine inhibited the enzyme and ferrous ion stimulated the reaction.
Thiosulfate oxidation and mixotrophic growth with succinate or methanol plus thiosulfate was examined in nutrient-limited mixotrophic condition for Methylobacterium oryzae CBMB20, which was recently characterized and reported as a novel species isolated from rice. Methylobacterium oryzae was able to utilize thiosulfate in the presence of sulfate. Thiosulfate oxidation increased the protein yield by 25% in mixotrophic medium containing 18.5 mmol.L-1 of sodium succinate and 20 mmol.L-1 of sodium thiosulfate on day 5. The respirometric study revealed that thiosulfate was the most preferable reduced inorganic sulfur source, followed by sulfur and sulfite. Thiosulfate was predominantly oxidized to sulfate and intermediate products of thiosulfate oxidation, such as tetrathionate, trithionate, polythionate, and sulfur, were not detected in spent medium. It indicated that bacterium use the non-S4 intermediate sulfur oxidation pathway for thiosulfate oxidation. Thiosulfate oxidation enzymes, such as rhodanese and sulfite oxidase activities appeared to be constitutively expressed, but activity increased during growth on thiosulfate. No thiosulfate oxidase (tetrathionate synthase) activity was detected.
The cyanolysis and photometric determination of thiosulfate, trithionate and tetrathionate have been investigated under the various conditions. The cyanolysis of thiosulfate catalyzed by cupric ions proceeded quantitatively in the presence of acetate buffer solution of pH 4.5, while the degree of cyanolysis of trithionate and that of tetrathionate were 0.3 and 0.6%, respectively. The degree of cyanolysis of trithionate was not so depressed as to a negligible extent by the methods previously proposed, but was depressed to 0.7% or less by the addition of such organic solvents as acetone, methanol, etc. The determination of thiosulfate, trithionate and tetrathionate in the concomitant presence of them could be made with a high accuracy.
Abstract The decomposition of 0.25 M trithionate and 0.5 M tetrathionate was followed at 20, 35, 50 and 70°C. During the reaction tri-and tetrathionate interconvert. Thiosulfate is observed as a prominent intermediate. The end products are elemental sulfur, sulfate, disulfite and bisulfite. The decomposition of trithionate follows a first order reaction with a rate constant of 1.4 × 10−1 at 70°C. In tetrathionate the reaction is preceded by an induction period and is second order, with a rate constant of 4 × 10−3 at 20°C. In both systems sulfate is formed in a first order reaction with a rate constant of 3.1 × 10−3 hrs−1 at 20°C. The decomposition mechanism in both systems involves the hydrolysis of trithionate.
The structure of the trithionate group is found from a complete determination of the crystal lattice of the potassium compound. Two of the sulphur atoms form four bonds each, three bonds with oxygen atoms and one with sulphur. The four bonds are directed towards the corners of a tetrahedron. The third sulphur atom forms only two bonds, both with sulphur atoms; the bond angle is 103°. The S–O distance is 1.50A and the S–S distance 2.15A. Some features of the binding in sulphur‐oxygen radicals are briefly discussed.
IN 1937 I assisted Dr. A. L. Day in a survey of the thermal region of the North Island of New Zealand, and part of the work carried out for him was the collection of samples of the waters of the most vigorously boiling pools in the various hot spring areas. During the analyses at the Dominion Laboratory, Wellington, advantage was taken of the opportunity to examine the samples for the presence of polythionates. The method used was titration with sodium hydroxide solution after addition of mercuric chloride to the neutralized sample. The examination of seventeen acid waters from–seven areas showed the presence of polythionates in only two waters, but these were from the most active springs. One was the “Black Pool” at Ruahine, near Rotorua, the largest and most vigorously boiling pool in the thermal region, and the other, the “Black Geyser”, a perpetual spouter at Ketetahi Hot Springs on the slopes of Mt. Tongariro. On the authority of Mitchell and Ward, from whose book the method was taken1, it was assumed that as the waters contained hydrogen sulphide, the only polythionate present was the trithionate. However, it has since been pointed out to me by Dr. A. Kurtenacker (private communication) that this is not correct.
Task 1: Methods Development for the Speciation of Polysulfides. The contributions of this project in fundamental thermochemistry and thermodynamics of Lewis acid-base reactions are reviewed and summarized. The use of the reagent p-hydroxymercuribenzoate, p-HMB (/sup -/OOC phi Hg-OH), as a preferred analytical reagent for polysulfides is warranted on considerations of specificity, selectivity, and its monovalent coordination number. p-HMB is a Lewis acid-base adduct. The Lewis acidity of /sup -/OOC phi Hg/sup +/ measured as log K of a reaction with a given Lewis base was found to be 15% greater than that of the classical Lewis acid H/sub 3/CHg/sup +/. Task 2: Methods Development for the Speciation of Dithionite and Polythionates. A new electroanalytical method has been developed for the speciation of trithionate, tetrathionate, and pentathionate. Five well-resolved differential pulse polarographic peaks were obtained at the dropping mercury electrode in a mixed solvent (60% water, 40% ethanol) containing trithionate, tetrathionate, and pentathionate at comparable concentration levels. Two peaks were accounted for by the electroreduction of trithionate and tetrathionate, respectively. Pentathionate yielded three peaks. Trithionate, tetrathionate and pentathionate concentrations were linearly correlated to selected differential peak currents. Task 3: Total Accounting of the Sulfur Balance in Representative Samples of Synfuel Processmore » Streams. Analyses of two aqueous specimens, a gasification effluent from Grand Forks, ND, and an H-Coal liquefaction process effluent were carried out. The liquefaction effluent contained predominantly hydrogen sulfide and no thiosulfate. A variety of sulfur species were observed in the gasification effluent, including thiocyanate. 9 references, 11 figures, 5 tables.« less
We have carried out species determination and kinetic analysis in the hydrogen peroxide-thiosulfate reaction by means of capillary electrophoresis and high performance liquid chromatography. In addition to thiosulfate, dithionate, trithionate, and tetrathionate, other polythionates such as pentathionate and hexathionate were detected during the oxidation process. The polythionates found are sensitive to the pH, with the average length of the sulfur chain decreasing with increasing pH. By varying the pH and the concentrations of the reactants, we find that the reaction is first order with respect to each of the reactants with rate constant k = 0.025 M(-1) s(-1). With HOS(2)O(3)(-), HSO(3)(-)/SO(3)(2-), S(3)O(6)(2-), S(4)O(6)(2-), and S(5)O(6)(2-) as key intermediates that are eventually oxidized to sulfate, a proposed 14-step kinetic model simulates the reaction process, including the evolution of the thiosulfate and tetrathionate concentrations at various pHs.
Crude preparations of Desulfotomaculum nigrificans were found to reduce bisulfite to trithionate, thiosulfate, and sulfide. The bisulfite reductase of this organism was partially purified and observed to reduce bisulfite to trithionate as the major product and with thiosulfate and sulfide as minor products. The enzyme exhibited spectral properties identical to the carbon monoxide-reacting pigment (P582) isolated from this organism. It is concluded that the bisulfite reductase of D. nigrificans is P582 and that this organism utilizes a pathway which involves trithionate during the reduction of bisulfite to sulfide.
Crude preparations of Desulfotomaculum nigrificans were found to reduce bisulfite to trithionate, thiosulfate, and sulfide. The bisulfite reductase of this organism was partially purified and observed to reduce bisulfite to trithionate as the major product and with thiosulfate and sulfide as minor products. The enzyme exhibited spectral properties identical to the carbon monoxide-reacting pigment (P582) isolated from this organism. It is concluded that the bisulfite reductase of D. nigrificans is P582 and that this organism utilizes a pathway which involves trithionate during the reduction of bisulfite to sulfide.
The difficulty in using conventional ion chromatography for the determination of sulfate, thiosulfate, dithionate and polythionates (tri-, tetra-, penta- and hexathionate) in their mixtures, comes mainly from very late elutions of polythionates due to their strong retentions onto a separating column. Rapid and sensitive determination of these sulfur oxyanions has been achieved by ion-pair chromatography using a silica octadecylsilane (ODS) column with mobile phases of 10% or 20% (v/v) acetonitrile in water (pH, 5.0) containing 0.2 mM phthalate and 7 mM tetrapropylammonium salt (TPAOH). The sulfur species separated on the column were monitored with a conductivity detector after passing through a micro membrane suppressor in the H+ form. When an acetonitrile-water (10:90, v/v) mobile phase (pH, 5.0) of 0.2 mM phthalate and 7 mM TPAOH was used at a flow-rate of 0.8 ml min−1, sulfate, thiosulfate, dithionate and trithionate were eluted at short retention times of 9.1, 9.7, 11.4 and 15.8 min, respectively; however, the higher polythionates required more than 30 min to elute. When the concentration of acetonitrile in the mobile phase was raised to 20% (v/v), all polythionates of tri- to hexathionate were completely separated from their mixtures within 21 min; in this instance, both sulfate and thiosulfate failed to be resolved due to their close retention times. Good recoveries were obtained for these sulfur oxyanions when added to various hot-spring water samples.
SummaryBased on a spectrophotometric method for tetrathionate and a colorimetric method for thiosulphate, a method for the analysis of polythionate solutions is proposed. This method also enables the mean value of n in the formula SnO62− to be determined for the polythionates above trithionate that are present. At the same time free thiocyanate is determined. Corrections for the presence of thiosulphate and or trithionate can easily be made.
Dissimilatory sulfate reduction is carried out by a heterogeneous group of bacteria and archaea that occur in environments with temperatures up to 105 degrees C. As a group together they have the capacity to metabolize a wide variety of compounds ranging from hydrogen via typical organic fermentation products to hexadecane, toluene, and several types of substituted aromatics. Without exception all sulfate reducers activate sulfate to APS; the natural electron donor(s) for the ensuing APS reductase reaction is not known. The same is true for the reduction of the product bisulfite; in addition there is still some uncertainty as to whether the pathway to sulfide is a direct six-electron reduction of bisulfite or whether it involves trithionate and thiosulfate as intermediates. The study of the degradation pathways of organic substrates by sulfate-reducing prokaryotes has led to the discovery of novel non-cyclic pathways for the oxidation of the acetyl moiety of acetyl-CoA to CO2. The most detailed knowledge is available on the metabolism of Desulfovibrio strains, both on the pathways and enzymes involved in substrate degradation and on electron transfer components and terminal reductases. Problems encountered in elucidating the flow of reducing equivalents and energy transduction are the cytoplasmic localization of the terminal reductases and uncertainties about the electron donors for the reactions catalyzed by these enzymes. New developments in the study of the metabolism of sulfate-reducing bacteria and archaea are reviewed.
Thiosalt species are unstable, partially oxidized sulfur oxyanions formed in sulfur-rich environments but also during the flotation and milling of sulfidic minerals especially those containing pyrite (FeS₂) and pyrrhotite (Fe₍₁₋ₓ₎S, x = 0 to 0.2). Detecting and quantifying the major thiosalt species such as sulfate (SO₄²⁻), thiosulfate (S₂O₃²⁻), trithionate (S₃O₆²⁻), tetrathionate (S₄O₆²⁻) and higher polythionates (SₓO₆²⁻, where 3 ≤ x ≤ 10) in the milling process and in the treated tailings is important to understand how thiosalts are generated and provides insight into potential treatment. As these species are unstable, a fast and reliable analytical technique is required for their analysis. Three capillary zone electrophoresis (CZE) methods using indirect UV-vis detection were developed for the simultaneous separation and determination of five thiosalt anions: SO₄²⁻, S₂O₃²⁻, S₃O₆²⁻, S₄O₆²⁻ and S₅O₆²⁻. Both univariate and multivariate experimental design approaches were used to optimize the most critical factors (background electrolyte (BGE) and instrumental conditions) to achieve fast separation and quantitative analysis of the thiosalt species. The mathematically predicted responses for the multivariate experiments were in good agreement with the experimental results. Limits of detection (LODs) (S/N = 3) for the methods were between 0.09 and 0.34 μg/mL without a sample stacking technique and nearly four-fold increase in LODs with the application of field-amplified sample stacking. As direct analysis of thiosalts by mass spectrometry (MS) is limited by their low m/z values and detection in negative mode electrospray ionization (ESI), which is typically less sensitive than positive ESI, imidazolium-based (IP-L-Imid and IP-T-Imid) and phosphonium-based (IP-T-Phos) tricationic ion-pairing reagents were used to form stable high mass ions non-covalent +1 ion-pairs with these species for ESI-MS analysis and the association constants (Kassoc) determined for these ion-pairs. Kassoc values were between 6.85 × 10² M⁻¹ and 3.56 × 10⁵ M⁻¹ with the linear IP-L-Imid; 1.89 ×10³ M⁻¹ and 1.05 × 10⁵ M⁻¹ with the trigonal IP-T-Imid ion-pairs; and 7.51×10² M⁻¹ and 4.91× 10⁴ M⁻¹ with the trigonal IP-T-Phos ion-pairs. The highest formation constants were obtained for S₃O₆²⁻ and the imidazolium-based linear ion-pairing reagent (IP-L-Imid), whereas the lowest were for IP-L-Imid: SO₄²⁻ ion-pair.
Metab. of thiosulfate and tetrathionate by Thiomonas intermedia K12, a facultatively heterotrophic, reduced sulfur compds.-oxidizing bacterium, was investigated. Expts. with the inhibitors N-ethylmaleimide (NEM), myxothiazol, and cyanide, and, addnl., the protonophore carbonylcyanide m-chlorophenolhydrazone (CCCP) were performed in short-time expts. to elucidate the degrdn. pathways. The results indicate a linked, cyclic degrdn. of these compds. via the highly reactive key intermediate disulfane-monosulfonic acid. Furthermore, anaerobic degrdn. expts., starting with tetrathionate, revealed a stoichiometry, which indicates a disproportionation of tetrathionate to thiosulfate, trithionate, and sulfate. The disproportionation allowed for cell growth.
Aspects of the biochemistry of the oxidation of inorganic sulfur compounds are discussed in thiobacilli but chiefly inThiobacillus denitrificans. Almost all of the thiobacilli (e.g. T. denitrificans, T. neapolitanus, T. novellus, andThiobacillus A2) were capable of producing approximately 7.5 moles of sulfuric acid aerobically from 3.75 moles of thiosulfate per gram of cellular protein per hr. By far the most prolific producer of sulfuric acid (or sulfates) from the anaerobic thiosulfate oxidation with nitrates wasT. denitrificans which was capable of producing 15 moles of sulfates from 7.5 moles of thiosulfate with concomitant reduction of 12 moles of nitrate resulting in the evolution of 6 moles of nitrogen gas/g protein/hr. The oxidation of sulfide was mediated by the flavo-protein system and cytochromes ofb, c, o, anda-type. This process was sensitive to flavoprotein inhibitors, antimycin A, and cyanide. The aerobic thiosulfate oxidation on the other hand involved cytochromec : O2 oxidoreductase region of the electron transport chain and was sensitive to cyanide only. The anaerobic oxidation of thiosulfate byT. denitrificans, however, was severely inhibited by the flavoprotein inhibitors because of the splitting of the thiosulfate molecule into the sulfide and sulfite moieties produced by the thiosulfate-reductase. Accumulation of tetrathionate and to a small extent trithionate and pentathionate occurred during anaerobic growth ofT. denitrificans. These polythionates were subsequently oxidized to sulfate with the concomitant reduction of nitrate to N2. Intact cell suspensions catalyzed the complete oxidation of sulfide, thiosulfate, tetrathionate, and sulfite to sulfate with the stoichiometric reduction of nitrate, nitrite, nitric oxide, and nitrous oxide to nitrogen gas thus indicating that NO2−, NO, and N2O are the possible intermediates in the denitrification of nitrate. This process was mediated by the cytochrome electron transport chain and was sensitive to the electron transfer inhibitors. The oxidation of sulfite involved cytochrome-linked sulfite oxidase as well as the APS-reductase pathways. The latter was absent inT. novellus andThiobacillus A2. In all of the thiobacilli the inner as well as the outer sulfur atoms of thiosulfate were oxidized at approximately the same rate by intact cells. The sulfide oxidation occurred in two stages: (a) a cellular-membrane-associated initial and rapid oxidation reaction which was dependent upon sulfide concentration, and (b) a slower oxidation reaction stage catalyzed by the cellfree extracts, probably involving polysulfides. InT. novellus andT. neapolitanus the oxidation of inorganic sulfur compounds is coupled to energy generation through oxidative phosphorylation, however, the reduction of pyridine nucleotides by sulfur compounds involved an energy-linked reversal of electron transfer.
The trithionate−iodine reaction has been studied spectrophotometrically in a slightly acidic medium at 25.0 ± 0.1 °C in acetate/acetic acid buffer monitoring the absorbance at 468 nm at the isosbestic point of the iodine−triiodide ion system in the absence and presence of initially added iodide ion at I = 0.5 M ionic strength adjusted by sodium perchlorate. The stoichiometry of the reaction was found to be S3O62− + 4I2 + 6H2O → 3SO42− + 8I− + 12H+. It is also shown that the consumption of iodine is inhibited by iodide ion, but it cannot be simply explained via the fast equilibrium formation of triiodide ion. A five-step kinetic model with four fitted and fixed kinetic parameters is proposed and discussed in detail, on the basis of which all the most important characteristics of the measured kinetic curves are adequately explained.
A new type of dissimilatory bisulfite reductase, desulfofuscidin, was isolated from the nonsporeforming thermophilic sulfate-reducing microorganism Thermodesulfobacterium commune . The molecular weight of the enzyme was estimated at 167,000 by sedimentation equilibrium, and the protein was pure by both disc electrophoresis and ultracentrifugation. The bisulfite reductase was a tetramer and had two types of subunits with an α 2 β 2 structure and an individual molecular weight of 47,000. The enzyme exhibited absorption maxima at 576, 389, and 279 nm, with a weak band at 693 nm. Upon the addition of dithionite, the absorption maxima at 576 and 693 nm were weakened, and a new band appeared at 605 nm. The protein reacted with CO in the presence of dithionite to give a complex with absorption peaks at 593, 548, and 395 nm. The extinction coefficients of the purified enzyme at 576, 389, and 279 nm were 89,000, 310,000, and 663,000 M −1 cm −1 , respectively. Siroheme was detected as the prosthetic group. The protein contains 20 to 21 nonheme iron atoms and 16 to 17 acid-labile sulfur groups per molecule. The data suggest the presence of four sirohemes and probably four (4Fe-4S) centers per molecule by comparison with desulfoviridin, the dissimilatory sulfite reductase from Desulfovibrio species. The protein contains 36 cysteine residues and is high in acidic and aromatic amino acids. The N-terminal amino acids of the α and β subunits were threonine and serine, respectively. With reduced methyl viologen as electron donor, the major product of sulfite reduction was trithionate, and the pH optimum for activity was 6.0. The enzyme was stable to 70°C and denatured rapidly above this temperature. The dependence of T. commune bisulfite reductase activity on temperature was linear between 35 and 65°C, and the Q 10 values observed were above 3. The presence of this new type of dissimilatory bisulfite reductase in T. commune is discussed in terms of taxonomic significance.
The decomposition and oxygen oxidation of tetrathionate in aqueous ammonia solution have been investigated. In the decomposition, thiosulfate, sulfate and sulfamate were formed through penta- and trithionate as intermediate compounds. The molar ratio of the products (SO42−+SO3NH2−)/S2O32− was roughly equal to 2/7, where 0.1N ammonia solution was used. The deficient use of ammonia made the solution neutral or weakly acidic and the precipitation of sulfur and the formation of higher polythionates were observed. The polythionate was detected by means of TLC (Thin Layer Chromatography). In the oxidation, tetrathionate was supposed to go through the following three sequent steps. 1) Decomposition of tetrathionate to form thiosulfate, tri- and pentathionate, and further decomposition of pentathionate to thiosulfate. 2) Oxidation of thiosulfate to tetrathionate and partly to sulfate. 3) Decomposition of trithionate to form sulfate, sulfamate and thiosulfate.
The kinetics of the alkaline decomposition of tetrathionate has been studied spectrophotometrically in the pH range of 9.2-12.2 using both phosphate/hydrogen phosphate and carbonate/hydrogen carbonate as buffer systems and by adjusting the ionic strength to I=0.5 M with sodium perchlorate at T=25.0+/-0.1 degrees C. Matrix rank analysis of the spectra recorded between 265 and 330 nm shows the presence of three independent absorbing species. Besides tetrathionate, thiosulfate and trithionate are identified as absorbing products of the decomposition, but sulfite and a trace amount of sulfate are also formed during the alkaline degradation process. With pentathionate, sulfoxylic acid (S(OH)2), S2O3OH-, and S3O3OH- as key intermediates, a 10-step kinetic model is proposed with six fitted kinetic parameters to take all the important characteristics of the experimental curves into account. On the basis of the stoichiometric measurements and the model proposed, it is also enlightened that the product distribution of the reaction continuously varies with pH; thus the kinetic traces cannot be evaluated by assuming a single stoichiometry in contrast to recent studies. Buffer dependence of the decomposition is also discussed.
Kinetic studies on the cyanolysis of the potassium salts of the polythionic acids have shown that K2S3O6 is cyanolysed much more slowly than K2S4O6 and higher polythionates. Use has been made of this fact for developing a new colorimetric method for trithionate. The method depends on determination of the amounts of thiocyanate formed after different times of cyanolysis. The thiocyanate is determined as its red ferric complex. Thiocyanate, thiosulphate and polythionates above trithionate do not interfere.
1. Thiobacillus strain C oxidized [(35)S]thiosulphate completely to sulphate. 2. During thiosulphate oxidation [(35)S]sulphate was formed more rapidly from (S.(35)SO(3))(2-) than from ((35)S.SO(3))(2-). (35)S disappeared less rapidly from thiosulphate with ((35)S.SO(3))(2-) as substrate than with (S.(35)SO(3))(2-). 3. Thiosulphate labelled in both atoms was produced during ((35)S.SO(3))(2-) oxidation, but not during (S.(35)SO(3))(2-) oxidation. 4. No (35)S was precipitated as elementary sulphur either in the presence or absence of exogenous unlabelled sulphur. 5. During [(35)S]thiosulphate oxidation, appreciable quantities of [(35)S]trithionate accumulated and later disappeared. Other polythionates did not accumulate consistently. 6. [(35)S]Trithionate was formed initially at a greater rate from (S.(35)SO(3))(2-) than from ((35)S.SO(3))(2-), but subsequently at a similar rate from each. 7. Trithionate formed from (S.(35)SO(3))(2-) was labelled only in the oxidized sulphur atoms, but that formed from ((35)S.SO(3))(2-) was labelled in both oxidized and reduced atoms. The proportion of (35)S in the oxidized atoms increased as more trithionate accumulated. 8. The results eliminate some mechanisms of trithionate formation but are consistent both with a mechanism of thiosulphate oxidation based on an initial reductive cleavage of the molecule and with a mechanism in which thiosulphate undergoes an initial oxidative reaction.
In the oxidation of thiosulfate at pH 4.5 tetrathionate was formed as an intermediate, and the thiosulfate-oxidizing enzyme was active in acidic pH range in contrast to the enzyme of T. thioparus and Thiobacillus X.Phosphate did not seem to affect the oxidation of thiosulfate but rather affect the conversion of tetrathionate. In the absence of phosphate, tetrathionate, which was produced from thiosulfate oxidation, seemed to accumulate without undergoing further conversion.Quantitative oxidation of tetrathionate to sulfate was achieved with freshly harvested cells of T. thiooxidans; pH optimum for the oxidation of tetrathionate by the washed cells was 2~3, and the activity fell markedly at pH above 3.5.Tetrathionate might be enzymatically dismuted to pentathionate and trithionate under anaerobic conditions with crude extracts of T. thiooxidans; pH optimum for the reaction was about 2.7 and the activity fell strikingly at pH 4.7. The formed trithionate might be further hydrolyzed to thiosulfate and sulfate.
Fig. 1. Two relevant electron pathways in Desulphovibrio sp., the phosphoroclastic reaction and sulphite reductase system. The central role of cytochrome cs and the coupling effect of ferredoxin are schematized. Since the trithionate pathway, which involves the existance of sulphur intermediates during the reduction of sulphite to sulphide [ 161, is still under controversy, the global value of g’, from SO:to S*is given here. This value has been computed from the data in [ 17-201. Abbreviations: PDH, pyruvate dehydrogenase; Cyt cl, cytochrome cJ (4 haems); Fd, (4 Fe, 4 S) ferredoxin; Hase, hydrogenase 3x (4 Fe, 4 S).
Abstract Cellulose acetate membranes were characterized in terms of pure water permeability constant, solute transport parameter, and mass transfer coefficient with a reference system of aqueous sodium chloride solution. Reverse osmosis separation behavior of sulfate, thiosulfate, dithionate, trithionate, and tetra-thionate was studied. Plant effluents containing various thiosalts and metal ions were subjected to reverse osmosis at 300 psig, and product water of suitable quality for use in recycle operations was obtained.
A commercially available ion-selective electrode for nitrate was used to continuously monitor tetrathionate oxidation by Thiobacillus dentrificans. The electrode was much more sensitive to tetrathionate than to nitrate. The same electrode could also be used for the determination of trithionate.
The fate of 35-S during anaerobic metabolism of [35-S]sulfate, [35-S]thiosulfate, and [35-S]sulfate plus unlabeled thiosulfate by washed cell suspensions of Desulfovibrio spp, and of [35-S]thiosulfate by growing D. desulfuricans was examined. The results appear to be inconsistent with the hypothesis that thiosulfate is an intermediate in sulfate reduction. Since thiosulfate was produced from trithionate, the latter is also unlikely to be an intermediate in the reduction pathway. Extracts of D. desulfuricans catalysed exchange between sulfite and the sulfonate group of thiosulfate.
Publisher Summary This chapter discusses synthesis and determination of thiosulfate and polythionates. Thiosulfate and polythionates react with cyanide to form thiocyanate, which can be determined colorimetrically as ferric thiocyanate. Differences in the reactivity of the thionates with cyanide enable the quantitative characterization and determination of mixtures of several compounds: trithionate is stable at high pH values and reacts with cyanide only at elevated temperatures, thiosulfate reacts with cyanide at room temperature only in the presence of copper(II) as a catalyst, whereas the higher polythionates react rapidly with cyanide at room temperature to form thiosulfate and sulfite. Thiocyanate formation can be quantified by reference to a calibration curve using thiocyanate or thiosulfate standards. In all the procedures in which ferric thiocyanate is measured, caution needs to be exercised, as the color is light sensitive and readings should be made at once or samples stored in darkness after addition of ferric reagent. The sensitivity of the procedure can be enhanced by using small volumes of more concentrated reagents and reading optical density in long light path (4 cm) cuvettes.
Different bacterial cell fractions of Thiobacillus neapolitanus were examined in order to localize the active sites for thiosulphate and sulphite oxidation. Difference spectra of the fractions were made to determine the level at which electrons from sulphite and thiosulphate enter the respiratory chain. Active sites for thiosulphate are probably strictly connected with cell membranes. Thiosulphate and sulphite reduced cytochome b and c in bacterial cell extracts. It has been found that thiosulphate oxidation is accompanied by production of tetrathionate and trithionate.
Abstract A new elution process for recovering gold thiosulfate from resins is described, and is based on the concept of synergistic ion exchange. In the presence of sulfite, Au(S 2 O 3 ) 2 3− is converted to Au(S 2 O 3 )(SO 3 ) 3− , which has a reduced affinity for strong anion exchange resins and is shown to be readily eluted by weaker eluants, such as chloride. Chloride has several advantages over other systems: it is significantly cheaper and more stable than trithionate, and the return of chloride loaded resin to the adsorption circuit is less problematic than nitrate. Using the proposed chloride + sulfite system, the majority of the gold is stripped within 2 BV of elution, and the gold can be readily recovered from the concentrated eluate using electrowinning. The copper is pre-eluted using ammonium thiosulfate, with stripping of 99.7% of the copper, and only 2.7% of the gold. The new elution process was operated in closed loop with a continuous 7 stage adsorption mini-rig, and a solution gold grade of − 1 is obtained within 6 tanks. The composite solution tail over 24 h is 0.005 mg L − 1 gold, indicating that the elution process produces a resin which is ideally suited for recycling without regeneration.
The trithionate-hypochlorous acid reaction has been studied by the stopped-flow technique and conventional spectrophotometry between pH = 6.59-12.2 monitoring absorbance-time profiles at 285 and 225 nm. We showed that the formal kinetic order of Cl(I) is nearly 2; however, those of hydrogen ion and trithionate are significantly lower than unity, suggesting complex kinetics. It was also demonstrated that both forms of Cl(I) are kinetically active within the concentration range studied. Simultaneous evaluation of the kinetic curves revealed that the reaction was initiated by a formal Cl(+) transfer to the partially negatively charged β-sulfur of trithionate. S3O6Cl(-) formed in the first step was also found to be equilibrating with S3O6OH(-) via a simple chlorine-OH exchange reaction followed by their subsequent oxidation of hypochlorite and hypochlorous acid, respectively. A six-step kinetic model is proposed and discussed with having four fitted and four fixed parameters.
Abstract Several metal ions inhibited the oxygen uptake activity of Nitrobacter agilis , but their effects on the kinetic parameters of nitrite oxidation were mixed. Growth of Nitrobacter winogradskyi was inhibited by persulfate (> 0.1 mM), tetrathionate (> 0.5 mM), and trithionate (> 5 mM). Oxygen uptake activity was, however, relatively insensitive to persulfate and tetrathionate ions.
Abstract Thiosulfate has shown promise as an alternative to cyanide for gold leaching. However, one of the limitations is high thiosulfate consumption. Thiosulfate degradation is not completely understood. Of the degradation products, trithionate is a concern in the resin recovery of gold and is persistent in solution. Very little is known about the expected behaviour of trithionate both with respect to its formation and to its interaction with other solution species.The focus of this work was to further the understanding of the behaviour of trithionate in gold leach solutions. − d [ S 3 O 6 2 − ] d<...
Task 1: methods development for the speciation of the polysulfides. Work on this task has been completed in December 1983 and reported accordingly in DOE/PC/40783-T13. Task 2: methods development for the speciation of dithionite and polythionates. Electrochemical reduction of tetrathionate and pentathionate at the dropping mercury electrode (DME) proceeds through a mechanism involving specific adsorption of the reactant at the DME surface and yielding polarographic waves at -0.2 volt (versus the saturated calomel electrode) in aqueous solution. Ethanol interferes with the specific adsorption of tetrathionate and pentathionate in a range of potentials between 0.0 and -1.1 volt, because EtOH is preferentially adsorbed. This results in a shift of the polarographic half-wave potentials of tetrathionate and pentathionate, which facilitates their determination in polythionate mixtures. On the other hand, the polarographic reduction of trithionate is unaffected by ethanol, because it occurs at -1.5 volt where ethanol is not adsorbed at the surface of the DME. Task 3: total accounting of the sulfur balance in representative samples of synfuel process streams. Analyses of two aqueous gasifier effluents from Grand Forks, ND, were performed. An untreated specimen contained sulfidic and polysulfidic sulfur, thiosulfate and thiocyanate. On the other hand, sulfite, sulfate, and thiocyanate were more » the only sulfur moieties observed in the Grand Forks sample which had been stripped at PETC. 7 references, 1 figure, 3 tables. « less
Resmethrin-selected house flies, Musca domestica L., were cross-resistant to fenvalerate. Fenvalerate was between 30- and 100-fold less toxic to resmethrin-selected flies (R) than to susceptible flies (S). While both DEF (S,S,S-tributyl phosphorotrithionate) and piperonyl butoxide (PB) significantly synergized fenvalerate ( P < 0.05) in R flies, PB was 8-fold more effective than DEF. PB was not a good synergist in S flies. In R flies, PB did not affect the rate of fenvalerate penetration as measured by unpenetrated insecticide. GA4-282, (2,6-dichlorobenzyl-2 propynyl) ether, and PB synergized pyrethrins, resmethrin, and the carbamates Mobam™, propoxur, and mexacarbate; the propynyl ether was more effective than PB with the carbamates, whereas PB was the better synergist for pyrethrins and resmethrin was synergized equally. GA4-282 had no effect on fenvalerate toxicity, although PB was markedly synergistic.
Raman and Se-77 NMR spectroscopy confirm that when selenous acid is reduced by thiosulfate in water selenopentathionate and tetrathionate are formed.Depending upon the stoichiometry and pH, two isomers of the selenopentathionate ion, O- and S-bonded, are formed. Insufficiently acid solutions cause decomposition to selenium and tetrathionate ion.Fresh solutions prepared from crystalline sodium selenopentathionate and water undergo slow decompositon. NMR and Raman spectra show the presence of both the O-bonded and S-bonded linkage isomers. The O-bonded isomer facilitates the formation of tetrathionate. Addition of thiosulfate to selenotrithionate solution or sulfite to selenopentathionate solution yields trithionate with no indication of dithionate or tetrathionate formation. This suggests that simple S—S bond formation at selenium does not occur but that there may be direct attack of the incoming ligand on the attached ligand. Key words: selenite, thiosulfate, selenopentathionate, Se-77 NMR, Raman spectros...
This work presents a series of investigations into the use of chromatographic and ::: electromigrative techniques for the analysis of gold thiosulfate leach solutions. ::: The focus of the project was determination of the gold thiosulfate complex ::: (Au(S203)23-), thiosulfate (S2O32-) , the polythionates (SxO62-, x = 3 to 5) and ::: sulfate (So42-) in these liquors. ::: The fundamental behaviour of the gold thiosulfate complex was studied in an ion ::: interaction chromatographic system. Partial dissociation or decomposition of the ::: gold complex occurred on-column in standards, although this was minimised ::: through adding thiosulfate to the eluent. Addition of the matrix ions, thiosulfate, ::: trithionate, tetrathionate or the leach matrix to gold thiosulfate samples further ::: complicated the chromatography, with the gold peak area dependent on the ::: concentrations of these species in solution. Broadening of the gold peak occurred ::: in solutions containing high concentrations of thiosulfate or the leach matrix that ::: was in part attributed to a self-elution effect. Other mechanisms were also thought ::: to affect the chromatography, such as the type of stationary phase. These ::: problems prevented the successful determination of gold thiosulfate in the leach ::: matrix. ::: Ion-interaction chromatography was successfully applied to the determination of ::: trithionate, tetrathionate, and pentathionate in undiluted leach liquors. A total ::: analysis time of 18 min was required for the developed method using a Dionex ::: NS 1-5 µ column with guard and an eluent comprising an acetonitrile step gradient ::: at injection from 15% to 28% v/v, 3 mM tetrabutylammonium hydroxide and ::: 2.5 mM sodium carbonate. Detection limits for polythionates using a 10 µL injection ::: volume ranged between 5-23 µM for conductivity and 4-68 µM for UV ::: detection based on a signal to noise ratio of 2. ::: The electromigrative methods, capillary electrophoresis, isotachophoresis and ::: mixed mode isotachophoresis/capillary electrophoresis were also investigated for ::: their applicability to the determination of sulfur-oxygen species in thiosulfate ::: leach liquors. Using capillary electrophoresis a method was developed that ::: allowed the separation of thiosulfate, polythionates and the gold thiosulfate ::: complex. The method separated the five species in under 3 min with a total ::: analysis time of 8 min, using an electrolyte containing 25 mM bis-tris adjusted to ::: pH 6.0 with sulfuric acid and an applied voltage of-30 kV. Quantification of the ::: gold thiosulfate complex was not possible by this technique due to inconsistent ::: peak areas and peak splitting effects induced by the presence of other sulfur ::: oxygen species in the sample. Detection limits of the method ranged between 0.5 ::: 2 µM. The teclmique was applied successfully to a thiosulfate leach liquor diluted ::: 1:100. ::: Using isotachophoresis, simultaneous determination of thiosulfate and sulfate, in ::: less than 30 minutes, was possible for a synthetic thiosulfate leach liquor ::: requiring a dilution factor of only 2:5. Detection limits of the developed method ::: were 1.3 mM for sulfate and 2.1 mM for thiosulfate. The method also showed ::: promise for the simultaneous determination of thiosulfate, sulfate, trithionate and ::: tetrathionate in these leach solutions. The concept of single capillary ::: isotachophoresis/capillary electrophoresis for these sulfur ions was also ::: demonstrated, however problems with reproducible quantitation prevented· the ::: development of a working method.
Abstract Thiosulphate is a metastable anion that tends to readily undergo chemical decomposition in aqueous solutions. The presence of tetrathionate, trithionate and sulphide is unavoidable in the ammoniacal thiosulphate system, as they are products of thiosulphate decomposition. Thiosulphate decomposition is of great importance in the thiosulphate leaching of gold. The effect of three typical sulphur species tetrathionate, trithionate and sulphide on thiosulphate leaching has been investigated in both pure gold and ore systems. The gold dissolution increased at low concentrations of the sulphur species, but decreased at high concentrations. The presence of these sulphur species significantly reduced thiosulphate decomposition, and this beneficial effect became more prominent at high levels of the species. The Eh–pH diagram for the Au–N–S–H 2 O system indicated that the sulphide ion could form HS − to complex gold, enhancing gold leaching. Tetrathionate, trithionate and sulphide would convert to thiosulphate with some elemental sulphur being formed via oxidation or reduction routes. The presence of the sulphur species shifted the thiosulphate decomposition reactions, and hence stabilised thiosulphate. Raman spectra demonstrated that the gold surfaces were readily passivated in the presence of the sulphur species, and the passivation tended to be more severe at higher levels of the species.
A CZE method using indirect UV-vis detection was developed for the simultaneous separation and determination of five thiosalt anions: sulfate (SO42−), thiosulfate (S2O32−), trithionate (S3O62−), tetrathionate (S4O62−) and pentathionate (S5O62−). As with many inorganic anions, absorbance by some thiosalt species in the UV-vis range is poor or non-existent. Fully ionized pyromellitate ion (PMA), with a high molar absorptivity, was evaluated as the chromophoric probe for analysis of these species. The factors considered in optimization of the method were: composition of the background electrolyte (BGE) (concentrations of PMA and electroosmotic flow (EOF) modifiers, pH of BGE, applied electric potential (V) and plug size of water for online sample pre-concentration. The optimal conditions were: [PMA] = 2.00 mM, [hexamethonium (HM2+)] = 0.80 mM, pH = 8.0, E = −30 kV and online sample pre-concentration (stacking) with 90 mbar s injection of water followed by 250 mbar s injection of thiosalt standard sample before application of separation voltage. The five thiosalt anions were separated in under 3 min with good resolution and sensitivity obtained for all the analyte peaks. Limits of detection (LOD) were between 0.09 and 0.34 μg mL−1 without stacking; a three-fold increase in LODs to between 0.02 and 0.12 μg mL−1 was achieved after online pre-concentration.
Abstract A water-insoluble copper(II) complex, prepared by cross-linking poly(4-vinyl pyridine) with copper sulfate, has been used as a catalyst for oxidation of thiosalts by molecular oxygen at ambient temperatures. This polychelate has been found to catalyze oxidation of sulfite (SO 2− 3 ), thiosulfate (S 2 O 2− 3 ), dithionite (S 2 O 2− 4 ), disulfite (S 2 O 2− 5 ), trithionate (S 3 O 2− 6 ) and tetrathionate (S 4 O 2− 6 ) to sulfate (SO 2− 4 ). The kinetics of oxidation of S 2 O 2− 3 , S 3 O 2− 6 and S 4 O 2− 6 has been studied in the presence of the catalyst. In each case the initial rate behavior is well explained by a Langmuir—Hinshelwood type rate law. The differences in the rate of oxidation of these thiospecies appear to arise mainly from the differences in their adsorption behavior on the catalyst. Two mechanistic pathways are proposed for the oxidation of S 2 O 2− 3 , one involving a direct electron transfer from S 2 O 2− 3 to Cu(II) and another involving electron transfer from S 2 O 2− 3 to O 2 through the central Cu(II) atom in a Cu(Py) n (S 2 O 2− 3 )(O 2 ) complex. The initial concentration of S 2 O 2− 3 influences the reaction mechanism and the product distribution pattern, a lower concentration favoring its oxidation to SO 2− 4 over that to S 4 O 2 6 . The rate of oxidation is mildly augmented by the acidity of the reaction medium down to a pH of 2.0, but it falls abruptly thereafter due to the decomposition of the complex. The presence of acetate ions in the reaction medium produces a marked promotional effect on the catalytic oxidation of S 2 O 2− 3 to SO 2− 4 , but it greatly inhibits the oxidation of S 3 O 2− 6 .
A series of novel ion-exchange resins was prepared based upon the commercial Magnetic Ion Exchange (MIEXTm) substrate produced by Orica Watercare for the selective adsorption and removal of aurothiosulfate from ammoniacal thiosulfate leach liquors. Gold adsorption by these resins was ascertained using bottle-roll tests both from water and from a synthetic thiosulfate leach solution. Elution of aurothiosulfate from these resins was examined using a variety of eluents and used to narrow the set of prospective resins. ::: A common synthetic method was utilised, based upon amination using primary, secondary and tertiary amines of the terminal epoxide group present on the MIEXTM substrate using an aqueous solvent. The weak-base resins formed were then dried and solvated in dimethylformamide, followed by alkylation employing a variety of alkyl halides to form quaternary ammonium moieties. Several structurally-related derivatives of imidazole, piperidine, piperazine and diethylamine were prepared with ion-exchange capacities ranging between 0.5 and 1.5mmol/g, dependent on the steric nature of the amine. ::: The strong-base functionalised resins formed by initial amination and alkylation of weak-base groups were then characterised by ion-exchange capacity determination, elemental analysis and attenuated-total-reflectance infrared spectroscopy with results from each of the techniques being comparable. The resin substrate was also characterised using BET ::: surface area analysis and scanning electron microscopy, with surface areas ranging between 40-47m2/g. ::: The performance of the resins was compared using a synthetic thiosulfate leach solution (pH-10.5) containing gold (20ppm), copper (200ppm), ammonia (1.3M) and thiosulfate (0.1M), with resin gold loadings of aurothiosulfate ranging between 14 and 124g/kg. ::: Elution studies were performed using acidic thiourea, basic thiocyanate and concentrated nitrate solutions, with all resins showing efficient elution of aurothiosulfate utilising one or more of the elution regimes, with typical efficiencies in the range of 30 to 75% elution. ::: The performance of a subset of resins was assessed by the sequential addition of small amounts of trithionate to assess the selective nature of the resins against a significant competitor ion. The best performing resins retained over 75% of the previously adsorbed aurothiosulfate when exposed to 10mM trithionate. Resins were also assessed for their permanent binding of the aurothiosulfate complex by repeated uptake/elution/regeneration studies utilising basic thiocyanate elution, followed by regeneration with ferric nitrate. The optimal resins tested eluted 63-78% aurothiosulfate over 5 cycles. Resins completing this testing were then destructively analysed for aurothiosulfate retained between elution cycles, with optimum resins retaining less than lmg Au over 5 cycles. ::: The following alkylamine functionalised ion-exchange resins were determined to be viable industrial candidates, including N-methyl-piperidine, N,N-dimethyl-piperazine, methyl-diethylamine and piperidine-ethanol-based resins. Of these, N-methyl-piperidine showed the most selective uptake of aurothiosulfate from leach solution, coupled with the most efficient elution using the regime tested and is the most likely candidate for further study.
inaminoacidcomposition, physical properties, andspectroscopic characteristics. Ittherefore appearsthat thesame c-type cytochrome components arepresent whenD.desulfuricans ATCC27774cells aregrown undereither condition. Thisisincontrast to theconsiderable difference found inPseudomonas perfectomayina (Liu etal., J.Bacteriol. 154:278-286, 1983), a marinedenitrifier, whenthecells are grown on nitrate or oxygenas theterminal electron acceptor. In addition, twospectroscopy methods capable ofrevealing minute structural variations inproteins provided identical information aboutthetetraheme cytochrome C3fromnitrate-grown andsulfate-grown cells. Sulfate-reducing bacteria belonging tothegenusDesulfovibrio areobligate anaerobes capable ofperforming oxidative phosphorylation coupled totheelectron transport process,withsulfate anditsreduction product(s) as terminal electron acceptors. A uniquememberofthis group of organisms, Desulfovibrio desulfuricans ATCC 27774, had beenshowntobecapable ofutilizing nitrate anditsreductionproduct, nitrite, asterminal electron acceptors aswell (24; M.P.Bryant, personal communication). Previous studiesindicated thattheenzymes involved indissimilatory sulfate reduction (ATPsulfurylase, adenosine 5'-phosphosulfate reductase, trithionate reductase, thiosulfate reductase,andbisulfite reductase) arepresent atapproximately thesame level whether thecells are grown on sulfate or nitrate, while theenzymes involved indissimilatory nitrate reduction (nitrate andnitrite reductases) areinducible, as their activities areconsiderably higher innitrate-grown than insulfate-grown cells (24). Itwas noted that cell mass yield was three tofour times higher forcells grown on nitrate than forcells grown on sulfate. Inthedissimilatory nitrate reductionperformed byD.desulfuricans ATCC27774, nitrate is reduced through nitrite toammonia(24). Thispathway is distinct fromthe"denitrification " processcarried outby truedenitrifiers, suchasPseudomonas perfectomarina, in whichthefinal product formedisdinitrogen (N2). Inour previous studies comparing thecytochrome componentsof thelatter organism grown underdenitrifying andoxygenrespiring conditions, itwas observed that twocytochromes, cytochrome cd,andthedihemecytochrome c-552, were induced onlyinthepresenceofnitrate, while a lowa/f3 c-type cytochrome was foundonlyinaerobically grown cells (20). Themonohemecytochrome c-551, on theother hand, was foundtobepresent atthesame level incells grown underbothconditions. Conclusions abouttheinvolvement ofthesecytochromes intheelectron transport chains in
Abstract Mine spoil was amended with materials ranging from complex (e.g. composted sewage sludge) to simple (e.g. pyruvic acid) organic forms. After 28 days of incubation, pH of spoil amended with composted sewage sludge, composted papermill sludge, pyruvic acid and a water-soluble extract from composted sewage sludge was 5.0. 7.5, 4.6 and 5,7, respectively. The non-amended spoil had a pH of 3.8. Total soluble SO 2- 4 , concentrations for the sewage sludge, papermill sludge, water-soluble extract and pyruvic acid treatments were 54, 3, 19 and 44% lower, respectively, than the non-amended spoil. All four materials markedly altered production of the reduced S compounds thiosulfate, trithionate, and tetrathionate. After 28 days of incubation the sewage sludge, papermill sludge, water-soluble extract and pyruvic acid treatments also decreased total soluble Fe concentrations by 99, 99, 90 and 85% respectively, as compared to the non-amended control. Use of the metabolic inhibitors N-ethylmalcimide. 2-iodoacetamidc, HgCl 2 and sodium azide revealed that Fe oxidation was of greater relative importance than S oxidation in the acidification of newly-exposed spoil. It was concluded that the organic materials reduced acid production from pyrite by preventing Fe oxidation and by removing soluble Fe from solution.
Thebisulfite reductase was a tetramer andhadtwotypesofsubunits with an a232structure andan individual molecular weight of47,000. Theenzyme exhibited absorption maximaat576,389,and279 nm, with aweakbandat693nm. Upontheaddition ofdithionite, theabsorption maximaat576and693nm were weakened, anda new bandappeared at605nm. Theprotein reacted withCOinthepresenceofdithionite togive a complex with absorption peaksat593,548,and395nm. Theextinction coefficients ofthe purified enzyme at576,389,and279nm were 89,000, 310,000, and663,000 Mcm-,respectively. Siroheme was detected astheprosthetic group.Theprotein contains 20to21nonhemeiron atomsand16to17acid-labile sulfur groupsper molecule. Thedatasuggest thepresenceoffoursirohemes andprobably four (4Fe-4S) centers permolecule bycomparison withdesulfoviridin, thedissimilatorysulfite reductase fromDesulfovibrio species. Theprotein contains 36cysteine residues andishighinacidic andaromatic aminoacids. TheN-terminal amino acids ofthea and,Bsubunits were threonine andserine, respectively. With reduced methyl viologen aselectron donor, themajor product ofsulfite reduction was trithionate, andthepHoptimum foractivity was 6.0. Theenzyme was stable to70°Canddenatured rapidly abovethis temperature. Thedependence ofT. commune bisulfite reductase activity on temperature was linear between 35and 65°C, andtheQiovalues observed were above3.Thepresenceofthis new typeof dissimilatory bisulfite reductase inT.commune isdiscussed intermsoftaxonomic significance.
Abstract A method has been devised for the analysis of sulphite, thiosulphate, trithionate, tetrathionate and pentathionate by anion-exchange chromatography.
A siroheme-containing sulfite reductase was isolated from Thiobacillus denitrificans, purified to an electrophoretically homogenous state, and investigated with regard to some of its molecular and catalytic properties. The enzyme was a tetramer with a molecular weight of 160 000, consisting of two types of subunits arranged to an alpha 2 beta 2-structure. The molecular weight of the alpha-subunit was 38 000, that of the beta-subunit 43 000. As prosthetic groups siroheme and Fe/S groupings could be detected. The absorption spectrum showed maxima at 273 nm, 393 nm, and 594 nm; the molar extinction coefficient at these wavelengths were 280, 181, and 60 . 10(3) cm2 . mmol-1, respectively. With reduced viologen dyes the enzyme reduced sulfite to sulfide, thiosulfate and trithionate. In many properties T. denitrificans sulfite reductase closely resembled desulfoviridin, the dissimilatory sulfite reductase of Dssulfovibrio species. It is proposed that the physiological function of this enzyme is not to reduce but rather to form sulfite from reduced sulfur compounds in the course of dissimilatory sulfur oxidation in T. denitrificans.
The title ionic zinc-acetate complex, [Zn(C 2 H 3 O 2 )(C 12 -H 12 N 2 ) 2 ] 2 (S 3 O 6 ).5H 2 O, contains a ZnN 4 O 2 nucleus provided by the three bidentate ligands acting in a chelating mode. The trithionate unit, in turn, acts as an isolated charge-balancing counter-ion. The structure has a three-dimensional assembly achieved through three different interaction types, viz. Coulomb, hydrogen bonding and π-π. The trithionate group and one of the solvent water molecules are disordered around inversion centers.
The Sox pathway model was developed on the basis of three types of observation. Firstly, that it is possible to reconstitute the complete eight electron oxidation of thiosulfate by mixing the purified Sox components together [14] . Thus, the known Sox components are necessary and sufficient to catalyse the full Sox pathway reaction. The electron yield of the pathway falls to two if SoxCD is omitted [14] , as predicted by the pathway model. Secondly, the proposed pathway intermediates SoxYZ-S-sulfane ('SoxY(S)Z'), SoxYZ-S-sulfonate ('SoxY(SO 3 )Z'), Sox-YZ-S-thiosulfonate ('SoxY(SSO 3 )Z'), as well as SoxYZ-S-thioperoxosulfonate ('SoxY(SSSO 3 ) Z'), can all be identified in SoxYZ preparations isolated from cells metabolising thiosulfate [5] . Thirdly, each Sox pathway enzyme is homologous to an enzyme of known function and has been assigned a related catalytic reaction in the Sox pathway model. SoxAX is related to the thiosulfate dehydrogenase TsdA, which catalyses the oxidative conjugation of two thiosulfate molecules through formation of a disulfide linkage [15, 16] . SoxB is a member of a family of hydrolytic enzymes containing a divalent metal ion pair at the active site [17] . SoxCD is related to sulfite oxidases [12] . Consistent with these inferred catalytic similarities SoxB has been shown to have thiosulfohydrolase activity using the small-molecule substrate analogue trithionate [7] while SoxCD is able to catalyse sulfite oxidation [13] . Nevertheless, it is important to realise that none of the proposed reactions of the Sox pathway has been directly demonstrated. Indeed, the individual purified Sox enzymes do not turn over their predicted SoxYZ-conjugated substrates ( [7, 18] and observations detailed below).
The application of polarography to the analysis of hydrosulphites is discussed. The method outlined for the determination of hydrosulphite is shown to be more specific than some commonly used chemical methods, but the probable relative error is about 1%. Procedures for the polarographic determination of thiosulphate, sulphide, and trithionate in the presence of sodium hydrosulphite are also described, and the respective merits of the polarographic and ohemical methods are compared. ::: ::: ::: ::: Polarographic methods serve also for the identification of the formaldehyde– and the acetaldehyde–sulphoxylates.
Thiosulfate and trithionate reactions with cyanide are catalyzed by Cu(II) and La(III) salts, respectively (Koh 1990 . The reaction of ferric iron with thiocyanate (Eq. 6) resulting in a red-colored complex is easily performed but useful only for clear nonsaline water samples.
Abstract Pollution by heavy metals is a serious environmental problem and removal methods have gained more and more attention from potential applications. Precipitation of heavy metals through sulfate reduction by sulfate reducing bacteria (SRB) is a promising biotechnological solution. A Citrobacter freundii species sulfate-reducing bacterium (SR10) was isolated from an up-flow anaerobic sludge bed for treatment of acid mine drainage. In this study, the ecophysiology of SR10 was investigated, then carbon metabolism and sulfate respiration were discussed. Growth of SR10 occurred with a doubling time of about 5.0 h, removal of both COD and sulfate were observed simultaneously in the culture medium. The precipitation produced by SR10 was most likely contributed by Fe (III) polysulfide, and production of elemental sulfur as intermediate. Strain SR10 was identified to be Citrobacter freundii based on 16S rRNA gene, but the dissimilatory sulfite reductase (dsrAB) gene of SR10 was highly (99%) affiliated with Desulfobulbus elongatus species. Strain SR10 is a mixotroph, being able to perform both autotrophic and heterotrophic sulfate reduction. Sulfate, sulfite, thiosulfate, sulfur and lauryl sulfate could all be utilized by strain SR10 to produce sulfide, suggesting that an adapted trithionate-like sulfate reduction pathway is operative in strain SR10. Moreover, the reduction of sulfate to sulfite might be the limiting step during the entire sulfate reduction process. Because of the quick growth and metabolism, SR10 could be applied as a biocatalyst for removal of both heavy metals and metalloids in bioremediation.
Abstract The nonsulfur purple bacterium Rps. palustris was adapted to grow photoautotrophically with thiosulfate as substrate. An isolated cell-free fraction catalyzed the enzymatic transfer of electrons from thiosulfate to endogenous and/or added mammalian cytochrome c . Antimycin A, NOQNO, rotenone, amytal and atebrin did not inhibit the thiosulfate-cytochrome c reductase. The products of thiosulfate oxidation were primarily tetrathionate, trithionate, and sulfate, suggesting oxidation via the polythionate pathway. Succinate, formate and NADH were also effective electron donors in this system showing Michaelis constants of 40, 30 and 0.025 m m , respectively for cytochrome c reduction. The NADH-cytochrome c reductase was not inhibited by flavoprotein inhibitors and by Antimycin A or NOQNO. The cell-free extracts also contained an active cytochrome c -O 2 oxidoreductase which was inhibited by cyanide, azide and EDTA, and these inhibitions were overcome by the addition of Cu 2+ . The oxidase activity was stimulated by the addition of uncoupling agents such as CCCP and DNP, as well as by Antimycin A and NOQNO. Reduced + CO minus reduced difference absorption spectra revealed the presence of cytochrome components of the a and o types which may function as the terminal oxidase(s).
Microbial leaching is one of the most attractive methods of removing toxic metals from sewage sludge. Sulfuric acid produced by indigenous microflora by the oxidation of elemental sulfur and sulfur compounds solubilizes toxic metals. The oxidation of sulfur compounds can be achieved by the direct oxidation to sulfates or by indirect oxidation, through the production and accumulation of soluble intermediate S{sub 2}O{sub 3}{sup 2}{sup -}, S{sub 3}O{sup 6}{sup 2}{sup -}, S{sub 4}O{sub 6}{sup 2}{sup -} compounds. The production of these intermediates may create a potential danger of acidification of the receiving waters or the agricultural soil where the leached sludge is ultimately destined, via slow oxidation of the intermediates with subsequent sulfuric acid production. The objective of this research was to investigate the formation of S{sub 2}O{sub 3}{sup 2}{sup -}, S{sub 3}O{sub 6}{sup 2}{sup -}, and S{sub 4}O{sub 6}{sup 2} during metal bioleaching using elemental sulfur and thiosulfate as energy substrates for growth of indigenous thiobacilli (sulfur-oxidizing microorganisms) in sludge. The results obtained showed that intermediates were not formed when elemental sulfur was used as a substrate, whereas trithionate and tetrathionate and tetrathionate accumulated in the sludges when thiosulfate was used as substrate. Moreover, the metabolism of thiosulfate was muchmore » slower than that of elemental sulfur in sludge medium. Therefore, the utilization of thiosulfate for the growth of indigenous thiobacilli in sewage sludge is a less attractive alternative for the metal bioleaching. 33 refs., 3 figs., 2 tabs.« less
Abstract The ability of some typical gangue minerals and activated carbon to adsorb gold(I) (preg-robbing) in non-ammoniacal thiosulfate solutions was examined at different calcium thiosulfate concentrations. In the absence of calcium thiosulfate, sulfide minerals such as pyrite and chalcopyrite, and carbon were highly preg-robbing with 100% gold being adsorbed within half an hour. The oxide minerals examined including kaolinite, goethite and hematite were significantly less preg-robbing under the same conditions. The presence of free thiosulfate can significantly reduce or eliminate the preg-robbing of gold on mineral surfaces. With an initial thiosulfate concentration of 0.1 M, gold adsorption by oxide minerals was completely eliminated, while that of sulfide minerals and carbon was insignificant at 0.2 M free thiosulfate. Copper(I) was found to enhance the preg-robbing of gold by oxide minerals but to reduce the preg-robbing of gold by sulfide minerals and by carbon. Similar effect of silver(I) was observed except for chalcopyrite. Trithionate, a by-product of thiosulfate degradation, has no significant effect on the preg-robbing of gold(I). Tetrathionate, another by-product of thiosulfate degradation, significantly increases the preg-robbing of gold(I) onto pyrite. Activated carbon enhances the degradation of tetrathionate to trithionate and thiosulfate, the latter helps stabilise the gold(I) in solution.
When subject to illumination, tetrathionate ion decomposes in an oscillatory fashion with a period of about 1 h to yield products identified as colloidal sulfur and trithionate ion. This system represents the first experimental example of a stirred, batch photochemical oscillator. A simple model consisting of four reaction steps and four adjustable rate parameters gives good agreement with the observed oscillatory behavior.
A new isocratic ion chromatographic technique is described for the sensitive measurement of tetrathionate, trithionate and thiosulfate. The sulfur oxyanions were separated on a polymer-coated, silica-based anion exchange column and directly detected by UV absorption at 216 nm. Aqueous saline acetonitrile/methanol mixtures were used as eluent. The three anions could be quantified in less than 10 min with detection limits of about 0.6 pmol for tetrathionate and of 40 and 10 pmol for trithionate and thiosulfate, respectively. The retention times of tetrathionate responded to changes of the solvent concentration, whereas the elution of thiosulfate depended predominatly on the ionic strenght of the eluent. Starting at the lowest detectable concentrations, calibration curves for all three compounds were linear over a concentration range of three orders of magnitude. The analysis of freshwater and saline samples worked equally well. Since contact of the eluent with metallic components caused shifts in retention times during operation, the solvent delivery system had to consist of plastic material. Examples of applicaton are given for determination of tetrathionate and thiosulfate in natural samples and for the turnover of these two compounds in sediment slurries and anaerobic enrichment cultures.
Thiomonas intermedia K12, a moderately acidophilic bacterium, which oxidises sulphur compounds, - exhibited the capability to use tetrathionate under oxic and anoxic conditions. Whereas under oxic conditions, the reduced sulphur tetrathionate compound was oxidised, under anoxic conditions, the organism disproportionated the compound. In both cases, trithionate and sulphate were produced but in different amounts. The results of the tetrathionate degradation experiments under oxic conditions pointed towards a cyclic degradation process with a transient formation of trithionate and sulphate as the final products, similar to the mechanism described for acidophilic sulphur compound oxidising bacteria. The results of the tetrathionate degradation experiments under anoxic conditions hinted to a partial reduction of tetrathionate to thiosulphate and a fractional oxidation to trithionate and sulphate. 4 M tetrathionate were converted to 6 M thiosulphate, 1 M trithionate, 1 M sulphate, and 8 M protons. The ΔG 0 ' of this reaction was found to be -16.1 kJ per mol tetrathionate degraded. Additionally, Thiomonas intermedia K12 grew under anoxic conditions with tetrathionate as the sole energy source. The cell numbers increased from 10 5 as the start value to 10 7 /mL at the end. Organic compounds, excluding traces of yeast extract, did not enhance growth. Therefore, it is proposed that tetrathionate disproportionation is a novel lithotrophic metabolism, which allowed Thiomonas intermedia K12 to survive changing conditions of oxygen supply in sulphur-compound-rich environments and even to grow during this reaction. The extensive sulphur compound analysis was carried out by ion-pair chromatography.
Cell-free extracts of Thiobacillus acidophilus catalysed the stoichiometric conversion of tetrathionate to thiosulphate, sulphur and two protons. The pH optimum of the enzyme activity was 3.0 and its temperature optimum 40°C. The enzyme was unstable at 30 and 40°C, at which its activity decreased to zero within 100 and 20 h, respectively. Enzyme activity was not affected by incubation for 1 week on ice or by freezing and thawing of the extract. The Km for tetrathionate was 0.3 mM. Enzyme activity was stimulated by ammonium sulphate up to a concentration of 1M. The results indicate that trithionate hydrolase cannot account for the observed conversion of tetrathionate.
The proposed method consists of four procedures; excess iodine for reactions with thiosulfate and/or sulfite under Procedures I, II and III, and the thiocyanate formed under Procedure IV are measured spectrophotometrically after proper chemical treatments. The absorbance obtained by Procedure I corresponds to the sum of the amount of tetrathionate and that of thiosulfate in the mixture. The absorbance obtained by Procedure II corresponds only to the amount of thiosulfate in the mixture. The absorbance obtained by Procedure III corresponds to the sum of the amount of thiosulfate and twice that of sulfite in the mixture. The absorbance obtained by Procedure IV corresponds to the sum of the amount of both thiosulfate and trithionate and twice that of tetrathionate in the mixture. The proposed method was applied to the determination of tetrathionate, thiosulfate, sulfite and trithionate mixed in various ratios in amounts of more than 0.05μmol with an error below ±0.02μmol.
In the oxidation of thiosulfate at pH 4.5 tetrathionate was formed as an intermediate, and the thiosulfate-oxidizing enzyme was active in acidic pH range in contrast to the enzyme of T. thioparus and Thiobacillus X.Phosphate did not seem to affect the oxidation of thiosulfate but rather affect the conversion of tetrathionate. In the absence of phosphate, tetrathionate, which was produced from thiosulfate oxidation, seemed to accumulate without undergoing further conversion.Quantitative oxidation of tetrathionate to sulfate was achieved with freshly harvested cells of T. thiooxidans; pH optimum for the oxidation of tetrathionate by the washed cells was 2~3, and the activity fell markedly at pH above 3.5.Tetrathionate might be enzymatically dismuted to pentathionate and trithionate under anaerobic conditions with crude extracts of T. thiooxidans; pH optimum for the reaction was about 2.7 and the activity fell strikingly at pH 4.7. The formed trithionate might be further hydrolyzed to thiosulfate and sulfate.
The intermediates formed during thiosulfate oxidation by Thiobacillus neapolitanus were examined. Tetrathionate occurred as an intermediate compound and trithionate as one of the by-products. Adenosine-5-phosphosulfate was formed from the inner sulfur of the thiosulfate molecule, without reductive cleavage of Na2S2O3. A pathway for thiosulfate oxidation by T. neapolitanus is proposed.
The presence of thiosalts in mining wastewaters is an environmental issue due to the resulting pH depression as these species degrade with time. Despite research in the area, reaction kinetics of thiosalt species under different pH and temperature conditions are not fully understood, especially in conditions common in receiving ponds. As a result, it is difficult to design ponds or develop treatment technologies to treat these compounds. Several studies have dealt with the reaction kinetics of major thiosalt species (thiosulfate, trithionate, tetrathionate) under various pH and temperature conditions. However, further research is required to better understand the fundamental behaviors of thiosalt species and identify probable reaction paths in temperatures below 30°C, pH range between 2 and 9 and in the presence of reagents. -- The overall objectives of this work have been to study the behavior of thiosalts in mining wastewaters and develop a model of their behavior under the conditions studied that includes pH and temperature as independent variables. The study is divided in four parts: the first part is a summary of relevant information in terms of generation and kinetics of thiosalts, analytical methods for measuring their concentrations, and treatment of thiosalt wastes. Despite extensive research in the area, generation and kinetic information of thiosalt species under different pH and temperature conditions is not fully understood, especially under the range of conditions likely to be encountered in receiving ponds. -- The second part of the study analyzes the behavior of thiosulfate, trithionate and tetrathionate and provides with mathematical models for their behavior as pure species under the specified conditions. The third part of the study consists of the analysis of the thiosalt behavior in mixtures following a decoupling approach; this analysis provided with additional information for the proposal of global reaction pathways for the species. Finally, the last chapter provides preliminary results from kinetic experiments with selected reagents, results from equilibrium simulations and an analysis of future work required to improve the understanding of thiosalt reactions, improve treatment efficiency and reduce the environmental impact of acid mine drainage.
A trithionate reductase system was isolated and purified from extracts of Desulfovibrio vulgaris. This system reduced trithionate to thiosulfate and consisted of two proteins. One was bisulfite reductase, an enzyme that reduces bisulfite to trithionate, and the second component was designated TR-1. Both enzymes were required to reduce trithionate to thiosulfate. Flavodoxin and cytochrome c3 from D. vulgaris were tested for their ability to function as electron carriers during trithionate reduction. When molecular hydrogen was the source of electrons for the reduction, both flavodoxin and cytochrome c3 were required. In contrast, when the pyruvate phosphoroclastic system was the reductant, flavodoxin alone participated as the electron carrier. The results indicate that flavodoxin, but not cytochrome c3, interacted with the trithionate reductase system. The cytochrome in the hydrogenase-linked assay functioned as an electron carrier between hydrogenase and flavodoxin.
Formation of a silver selenide layer on silicone coated polyamide cloth was investigated. Fabric samples were selenized in potassium selenotrithionate (K2SeS2O6) solution then treated with AgNO3 solution. Formation of a silver selenide particle layer on the surface was confirmed by a change in appearance, X-ray diffraction, and EDX analysis. XRD revealed two phases: orthorhombic naumannite (Ag2Se) and monoclinic selenium (Se8). SEM showed that the fabric macrostructure and the multifilament yarn microstructure was preserved. The silver selenide particles ranged from 100 nm to more than 20 µm. ::: Open image in new window
Alkaliphilic sulphur-oxidizing bacteria were isolated from samples from alkaline environments including soda soil and soda lakes. Two isolates, currently known as strains AL 2 and AL 3, were characterized. They grew over a pH range 8.0–10.4 with an optimum at 9.5–9.8. Both strains could oxidize thiosulphate, sulphide, polysulphide, elemental sulphur and tetrathionate. Strain AL 3 more actively oxidized thiosulphate and sulphide, while isolate AL 2 had higher activity with elemental sulphur and tetrathionate. Isolate AL 2 was also able to oxidize trithionate. The pH optimum for thiosulphate and sulphide oxidation was between 9–10. Some activity remained at pH 11, but was negligible at pH 7. Metabolism of tetrathionate by isolate AL 2 involved initial anaerobic hydrolysis to form sulphur, thiosulphate and sulphate in a sequence similar to that in other colourless sulphur-oxidizing bacteria. Sulphate was produced by both strains. During batch growth on thiosulphate, elemental sulphur and sulphite transiently accumulated in cultures of isolates AL 2 and AL 3, respectively. At lower pH values, both strains accumulated sulphur during sulphide and thiosulphate oxidation. Both strains contained ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase. Thiosulphate oxidation in isolate AL 3 appeared to be sodium ion-dependent. Isolate AL 2 differed from AL 3 by its high GC mol % value (65.5 and 49.5, respectively), sulphur deposition in its periplasm, the absence of carboxysomes, lower sulphur-oxidizing capacity, growth kinetics (lower growth rate and higher growth yield) and cytochrome composition.
The intermediary production of elemental sulfur during the microbial oxidation of reduced sulfur compounds has frequently been reported. Thiobacillus ferrooxidans, an acidophilic chemolithoautotroph, was found to produce an insoluble sulfur compound, primarily elemental sulfur, during the oxidation of thiosulfate, trithionate, tetrathionate and sulfide. This was confirmed by light and electron microscopy. Sulfur was produced from sulfide by an oxidative step, while the production from tetrathionate was initiated by a hydrolytic step, probably followed by a series of chemical reactions. The oxidation of intermediary sulfur was severely inhibited by sulfhydryl-binding reagents such as N-ethylmaleimide, by the addition of uncouplers or after freezing and thawing of the cells, which probably damaged the cell membrane. The mechanisms behind these inhibitions have not yet been clarified. Finally, it was observed that elemental sulfur oxidation by whole cells depended on the medium composition. The absence of sulfate or selenate reduced the sulfur oxidation rate.
Oxidation of reduced sulphur compounds by Thiobacillus acidophilus was studied with cell suspensions from heterotrophic and mixotrophic chemostat cultures. Maximum substrate-dependent oxygen uptake rates and affinities observed with cell suspensions from mixotrophic cultures were higher than with heterotrophically grown cells. ph Optima for oxidation of sulphur compounds fell within the pH range for growth (pH 2–5), except for sulphite oxidation (optimum at pH 5.5). During oxidation of sulphide by cell suspensions, intermediary sulphur was formed. Tetrathionate was formed as an intermediate during aerobic incubation with thiosulphate and trithionate. Whether or not sulphite is an inter-mediate during sulphur compound oxidation by T. acidophilus remains unclear. Experiments with anaerobic cell suspensions of T. acidophilus revealed that trithionate metabolism was initiated by a hydrolytic cleavage yielding thiosulphate and sulphate. A hydrolytic cleavage was also implicated in the metabolism of tetrathionate. After anaerobic incubation of T. acidophilus with tetrathionate, the substrate was completely converted to equimolar amounts of thiosulphate, sulphur and sulphate. Sulphide- and sulphite oxidation were partly inhibited by the protonophore uncouplers 2,4-dinitrophenol (DNP) and carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone (CCCP) and by the sulfhydryl-binding agent N-ethylmaleimide (NEM). Oxidation of elemental sulphur was completely inhibited by these compounds. Oxidation of thiosulphate, tetrathionate and trithionate was only slightly affected. The possible localization of the different enzyme systems involved in sulphur compound oxidation by T. acidophilus is discussed.
Twenty-one thiosulfate-oxidizing bacteria were isolated from rhizosphere soils and 16S rRNA analysis revealed that the isolates were affiliated with seven different phylogenetic groups within the Beta and Gamma subclasses of Proteobacteria and Actinobacteria. Among these, five genera, including Dyella, Burkholderia, Alcaligenes, Microbacterium and Leifsonia sp., represented new sulfur oxidizers in rhizosphere soils. The thiosulfate-oxidizing Dyella, Burkholderia, Alcaligenes, Microbacterium, Leifsonia and Pandoraea were able to grow chemolithotrophically with a medium containing thiosulfate and exhibited growth coupled with thiosulfate oxidation. They accumulated intermediate products such as sulfur, sulfite and trithionate in the spent medium during the time course of thiosulfate oxidation, and these products were finally oxidized into sulfate. Furthermore, they possessed thiosulfate-metabolizing enzymes such as rhodanese, thiosulfate oxidase, sulfite oxidase and trithionate hydrolase, suggesting that these bacteria use the 'S4 intermediate' (S4I) pathway for thiosulfate oxidation. Phylogenetic analysis of the soxB gene revealed that Pandoraea sp. and Pandoraea pnomenusa strains formed a separate lineage within Betaproteobacteria.
Thiobacillus acidophilus was studied with cell suspensions from heterotrophic and mixotrophic chemostat cultures. Maximum substrate-dependent oxygen uptake rates and affinities observed with cell suspensions from mixotrophic cultures were higher than with heterotrophically grown cells, pH Optima for oxidation of sulphur compounds fell within the pH range for growth (pH 2-5), except for sulphite oxidation (optimum at pH 5.5). During oxidation of sulphide by cell suspensions, intermediary sulphur was formed. Tetrathionate was formed as an intermediate during aerobic incubation with thiosulphate and trithionate. Whether or not sulphite is an intermediate during sulphur compound oxidation by 7". acidophilus remains unclear. Experiments with anaerobic cell suspensions of T. acidophilus revealed that trithionate metabolism was initiated by a hydrolytic cleavage yielding thiosulphate and sulphate. A hydrolytic cleavage was also implicated in the metabolism of tetrathionate. After anaerobic incubation of T. acidophilus with tetrathionate, the substrate was completely converted to equimolar amounts of thiosulphate, sulphur and sulphate. Sulphide-and sulphite oxidation were partly inhibited by the protonophore uncouplers 2,4-dinitrophenol (DNP) and carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone (CCCP) and by the sulfhydryl-binding agent N-ethylmaleimide (NEM). Oxidation of elemental sulphur was completely inhibited by these compounds. Oxidation of thiosulphate, tetrathionate and trithionate was only slightly affected. The possible localization of the different enzyme systems involved in sulphur compound oxidation by T. acidophilus is discussed.
This paper presents methods found to be suitable for the determination of thio-salts and sulphate in flotation mill solutions. Thiosulphate, tetrathionate and trithionate are estimated spectrophotometrically after cyanolysis. A modified iodimetric procedure is used for sulphite and a titrimetric method for direct determination of sulphate. The observation that dithionate is not oxidized by hydrogen peroxide but is oxidized to sulphate by potassium chlorate-nitric acid mixture is the basis for estimation of dithionate.
Abstract Chromatographic and radioisotope techniques were employed to characterize the mechanisms involved in the metabolism of thiosulphate and thiocyanate by human saliva and plaque. The criteria for determining the utilization of substrates were based on measurements of 35S-binding by salivary proteins, formation and identification of volatile and non-volatile 35S compounds, and production of inorganic [35S]-sulphate. Through selective 35S-labelling at the beta (35S.SO32−) and alpha (S.35SO32−) positions, it was demonstrated that the two S portions of thiosulphate are metabolized through different pathways. Whereas the alpha S yielded only traces of intermediate volatile S products and was completely recovered as sulphate, the beta S was first converted to the volatile fraction which was subsequently reabsorbed and oxidized by the incubated reaction mixtures to several non-volatile products. Gas chromatographic (GC) analyses of the head-space of the 35S.SO32− systems detected a single prominent peak which corresponded to the retention time for H2S. Paper chromatographic analysis of the non-volatile components showed that the salivary metabolism of 35S.SO32− gave rise to 6 principal zones of radioactivity which were identified on the basis of RF values and staining reactions as: protein, inorganic sulphate, trithionate, tetrathionate, pentathionate and hexathionate. In addition to these components, a very prominent 35S peak was also obtained for thiosulphate when H235S was employed as the sole source of 35S. It appears that H2S and S2O32− are intermediate products of oral organic sulphur metabolism leading to the formation of inorganic sulphate and polythionates. The GC and 35S analyses showed that 35SCN− was not a precursor of volatile S compounds and yielded only traces of [35S]-sulphate in putrescent systems. Similarly, the paper chromatographic studies showed that, except for the uptake of approximately 1 per cent of 35SCN− radioactivity by the salivary proteins, the remainder of 35SCN− appeared inert. The addition of SCN− had no discernible effect on the normal putrefactive activity or oxidation of l -methionine, l -cysteine and l -cystine.
Dissimilatory sulfite reductase (dSiR) belongs to the group of oxidoreductases and is a key enzyme of the biogeochemical sulfur cycle. The enzyme is organized as a heterotetrameric α2β2, or a heterohexameric α2β2γ2 complex, and catalyzes the reduction of sulfite (SO32−) to hydrogen sulfide (H2S) in a six-electron transfer process as the final step of dissimilatory sulfate reduction. Thiosulfate (S2O32−) and trithionate (S3O62−) have been postulated as potential intermediates in this energy conserving process, which evolved in an early stage of prokaryotic life in an anoxic environment. Like assimilatory sulfite reductase (aSiR), dSiR also reduces nitrite to ammonia. Sulfite reductases and related nitrite reductases are the only known class of enzymes that couple a siroheme (an iron-tetrahydroporphyrin of the isobacteriochlorin class) to an iron–sulfur cluster to construct a catalytically active redox center. ::: ::: ::: 3D Structure ::: ::: ::: ::: Keywords: ::: ::: siroheme; ::: iron–sulfur; ::: dissimilatory sulfite reduction; ::: sulfur cycle
The processes of obtaining layers of thallium, sulfides, Tl x S y , by the sorption-diffusion method on polyamide 6 using solutions of lower polythionates - sodium trithionate and tetrathionate, Na 2 S 3 O 6 , Na 2 S 4 O 6 , potassium pentathionate, K 2 S 5 O 6 , and of dodecathionic acid, H 2 S 12 O 6 , as precursors of sulfur are compared. The concentration of sorbed sulfur increases with increasing the duration of treatment, the concentration and temperature of precursor solution. It rather significantly also depends on the nature - sulfurity of polythionate, i. e. on the number of sulfur atoms in the polythionate anion: effectiveness of sulfurization using solutions of dodecathionic acid is significantly higher than that of lower polythionates. Thallium sulfide layers are formed on the surface of polyamide after the treatment of sulfurized polymer with Tl(I) salt solution. The concentration of thallium in the layer increases with the increase of initial sulfurization duration and in case of H 2 S 12 O 6 solution used - on the temperature of this process. The results of X-ray diffraction analysis confirmed the formation of thallium sulfide layers in the surface of polyamide 6. The phase composition of layer changes depending on the conditions of initial treatment in a H 2 S 12 O 6 solution. Five thallium sulfide phases, two forms of TlS, Tl 2 S 2 , Tl 4 S 3 and Tl 2 S 5 were identified in the composition of the layers treated for different time with a solution of dodecathionic acid at the temperature of 20 °C and 30 °C and then with Tl(I) salt solution by X-ray diffraction but the maxima of TlS and Tl 2 S 5 phases predominate in the diffractograms. http://dx.doi.org/10.5755/j01.ms.17.4.774
SummaryKinetic studies on the cyanolysis of the potassium salts of the polythionic acids have shown that K2S3O6 is cyanolysed much more slowly than K2S4O6 and higher polythionates. Use has been made of this fact for developing a new colorimetric method for trithionate. The method depends on determination of the amounts of thiocyanate formed after different times of cyanolysis. The thiocyanate is determined as its red ferric complex. Thiocyanate, thiosulphate and polythionates above trithionate do not interfere.
Abstract Capillary electrophoresis (CE) with indirect detection was used to analyse mixtures of sulfur-containing compounds. An optimised electrolyte, composed of 2 m M sulfosalicylic acid–0.5 m M Waters osmotic flow modifier OFM-OH, pH adjusted to 7.00 with Bis–Tris, allowed the analysis of sulfide (H 2 S/HS − ), thiosulfate (S 2 O 3 2− ), tetrathionate (S 4 O 6 2− ), trithionate (S 3 O 6 2− ), sulfite (HSO 3 − /SO 3 2− ), sulfate (SO 4 2− ), and peroxodisulfate (S 2 O 8 2− ). Only sulfate showed a single-peak electropherogram that gives evidence of its stability in aqueous solutions. Thiosulfate, tetrathionate and peroxodisulfate showed an additional minor peak of sulfate that did not seem to be time-dependent and was supposed to be due to salt impurities. Sulfide and sulfite showed rapid conversion into their oxidation products in solutions exposed to air. Linear calibration curves were obtained for all these species, taking the oxidation process into account for sulfide and sulfite. Limits of detection were in the low- to mid-μ M range, except for sulfide, for which the limit of detection was 10 −5 M . The identity of trithionate was not determined via standard solutions (not commercially available) but after the rearrangement of tetrathionate with sulfite that yields thiosulfate and trithionate. The time-dependence of the concentrations of both the reagents and products could be followed simultaneously by the proposed CE method and the reaction kinetics were found to be second order in the pH range 7 to 11. A calibration curve for trithionate could be deduced from this study.
The hydrolytic reactions of disulphur monoxide are studied in a homogeneous medium. Alkaline hydrolysis gives a mixture of sulphide, sulphite, and thiosulphate. Hydrolysis in the presence of sulphite in neutral medium gives equimolar amounts of trithionate and thiosulphate. These reactions are closely similar to the reactions of derivatives of thiosulphurous acid. The production of trithionate is explained on the basis of the formation of thiosulphurous acid as the primary product during hydrolysis and therefore it is suggested that disulphur monoxide is the true anhydride of this acid.
The processes of obtaining layers of thallium, sulfides, Tl x S y , by the sorption-diffusion method on polyamide 6 using solutions of lower polythionates -sodium trithionate and tetrathionate, Na 2 S 3 O 6 , Na 2 S 4 O 6 , potassium pentathionate, K 2 S 5 O 6 , and of dodecathionic acid, H 2 S 12 O 6 , as precursors of sulfur are compared. The concentration of sorbed sulfur increases with increasing the duration of treatment, the concentration and temperature of precursor solution. It rather significantly also depends on the nature -sulfurity of polythionate, i. e. on the number of sulfur atoms in the polythionate anion: effectiveness of sulfurization using solutions of dodecathionic acid is significantly higher than that of lower polythionates. Thallium sulfide layers are formed on the surface of polyamide after the treatment of sulfurized polymer with Tl(I) salt solution. The concentration of thallium in the layer increases with the increase of initial sulfurization duration and in case of H 2 S 12 O 6 solution used -on the temperature of this process. The results of X-ray diffraction analysis confirmed the formation of thallium sulfide layers in the surface of polyamide 6. The phase composition of layer changes depending on the conditions of initial treatment in a H 2 S 12 O 6 solution. Five thallium sulfide phases, two forms of TlS, Tl 2 S 2 , Tl 4 S 3 and Tl 2 S 5 were identified in the composition of the layers treated for different time with a solution of dodecathionic acid at the temperature of 20 °C and 30 °C and then with Tl(I) salt solution by X-ray diffraction but the maxima of TlS and Tl 2 S 5 phases predominate in the diffractograms.
Based upon a former study, the chlorite-trithionate reaction can avoid the side reactions arising from the well-known alkaline decomposition of polythionates, making it a suitable candidate for investigating spatial front instabilities in a reaction-diffusion-convection system. In this work, the chlorite-trithionate reaction was investigated in a Hele-Shaw cell, in which fingering patterns were observed over a wide range of reactant concentrations. A significant density increment crossing the propagating front indicates that the fingering pattern is generated as a consequence of the buoyancy-driven instability due to the density changes of solute when the gap thickness is less than 4 mm. The velocity of the steepest descent in the propagating front depends almost linearly on the gap thickness but displays a saturation-like profile on the trithionate concentration as well as a maximum on the chlorite concentration. Numerical simulation using the Stokes-Brinkman Equation coupled to the reaction-diffusion processes, including hydrogen ion autocatalysis and consumption, reproduces the observed fingering fronts.
Abstract Lanthanum(III) has been found to catalyze the reaction of trithionate with cyanide. A rapid and accurate determination of trithionate is proposed. The method is based on the formation of thiocyanate equivalent to trithionate, and on the photometric determination of the thiocyanate with iron(IH). The factors affecting cyanolysis of trithionate in the presence of lanthanum(III), such as amounts of cyanide and lanthanum, pH, and reaction time and temperature, were examined in order to establish the conditions under which trithionate is converted stoichiometrically to thiocyanate. Beer's law is obeyed in the range 0.1–6· 10 -4 M trithionate. Complete cyanolysis is obtained in 20 min at 10°C over the pH range 9.0–9.3. The only serious interferences are thiosulfate, sulfide and other polythionates.
Abstract Hydrogen generation and the concurrent formation of sulfur products from hydrothermal reactions of aqueous sulfide solutions at pH values between 9 and 13 and temperatures between 280 and 330 °C were studied. A hydrogen production model was developed by kinetic and statistical analysis of sulfide consumption rates and the ratio of hydrogen produced to sulfide consumed. Results showed that the amount of hydrogen generated in a given reaction may be predicted by a series of equations incorporating starting conditions such as the initial sulfide concentration, pH and temperature. The data from this study suggested that the overall hydrogen generation reaction mechanism consists of one or more elementary reactions which result in the formation of various sulfur products, such as polysulfides and sulfur oxyanions, depending on the reaction conditions. The possible specific sulfur compounds included pentasulfide (S52−), thiosulfate (S2O32−), trithionate (S3O62−) and sulfate (SO42−). The production rate constants of these products increased with temperature, but were independent of pH. Additionally, it was indicated that increasing the reaction temperature and/or pH resulted in the formation of sulfur products with higher oxidation numbers. This work suggests that the optimal mechanism for hydrogen generation via the sulfur redox cycle, taking into account the requirement for sulfide regeneration, is that which forms trithionate as the sole sulfur product.
Under anaerobic conditions tetl'athionate was metabolized by washed cells of Thiobacillus X to thiosulphat,e, sulphate, and smnll amounts of trithionate and pentathionate. Depending upon the growth history of the cells large amounts of either elementary sulphur or higher polythionates were also former1. Some oxidation of the inner sulphur of tetrathionate occurred during tho metabolism of t·etra· thionate under nitrogen. The quantitative relationships between the amounts of tetrathionate metabolized and the products suggested that a major reaction was hydrolysis according to the equation:
The kinetics of the dissolution of gold and silver colloids in ammoniacal thiosulfate solutions has been studied using oxygen, copper(II) or oxygenated copper(II) as oxidants at pH 9 - 11 and temperature 22oC to 48oC. The effects of the concentration of the main reagents such as copper(II), ammonia and thiosulfate as well as various background reagents have been investigated. Gold and silver colloids have characteristic absorption peaks at 530 nm and 620 nm respectively. Thus, the extent of gold or silver dissolution in different lixiviant systems was monitored using an ultraviolet-visible spectrophotometer. A comparison of the behaviour of gold colloids and powders has also been made. The beneficial or detrimental effects of silver colloid, and background reagents such as silver nitrate, and sodium salts of nitrate, carbonate, sulfite, sulfate, trithionate, tetrathionate anions have also been investigated. ::: ::: Experimental results show that the relative rates and the extent of gold colloid dissolution at 25oC in different lixiviant systems in a given time interval are in the order: oxygen-cyanide > copper(II)-ammonia-thiosulfate ≈ oxygen-copper(II)- ammonia-thiosulfate > oxygen ammonia-thiosulfate ≥ oxygen-ammonia > copper(II) ammonia. The analysis of electrode potentials shows that Au(S2O3)23- is the predominant gold(I) species in the lixiviant solutions containing oxygen or copper(II) as oxidant and thiosulfate or mixed ammonia-thiosulfate as ligands. During the reaction of copper(II) with thiosulfate in ammoniacal solution without oxygen, the measured potential using a platinum electrode represent the redox couple Cu(NH3)n2+/Cu(S2O3)m1-2m (n = 4 or 3, m = 3 or 2) depending on the concentrations of thiosulfate and ammonia. ::: ::: The initial dissolution rates of gold colloid by oxygen in copper-free solutions show a reaction order of 0.28 with respect to the concentration of dissolved oxygen, but independent of the concentration of ammonia and thiosulfate. The reaction activation energy of 25 kJ/mol in the temperature range 25°C to 48°C indicated a diffusion controlled reaction. ::: ::: The initial dissolution rates of gold colloid by oxidation with copper(II) in oxygenfree solutions show reaction orders of 0.41, 0.49, 0.60, 0.15 and 0.20 with respect to the concentrations of copper(II), thiosulfate, ammonia, chloride and silver respectively. The presence of silve (I) or chloride ions enhances the rate of gold dissolution, indicating their involvement in the surface reaction, possibly by interfering with or preventing a passivating sulfur rich film on gold surface. An activation energy of 40-50 kJ/mol for the dissolution of gold by oxidation with copper(II) in the temperature range 22°C to 48°C suggests a mixed chemically/diffusion controlled reaction. The dissolution of gold by oxidation with copper(II) in oxygen-free solutions appears to be a result of the reaction between gold, thiosulfate ions and the mixed complex Cu(NH3)p(S2O3)0. The half order reactions support electrochemical mechanisms in some cases. ::: ::: The initial dissolution rates of gold colloid, massive gold and gold-silver alloys by oxygenated copper(II) solutions also suggest a reaction that is first order with respect to copper(II) concentration. High oxygen concentration in solutions has a negative effect on the initial rate of gold dissolution and overall percentage of gold dissolution, indicating that oxygen affects the copper(II), copper(I) or sulfur species which in turn affects the gold dissolution. The surface reaction produces Au(NH3)(S2O3)- and Cu(NH3)p+. The mixed complexes Au(NH3)(S2O3)- and Cu(NH3)p+ re-equilibrate to the more stable complexes Au(S2O3)23- and Cu(S2O3)35- in solution. ::: ::: The dissolution of gold powder by oxidation with copper(II) in oxygen-free solutions shows the same trends as that of gold colloid. The presence of silver(I) or chloride ions enhances the initial rate and percentage dissolution of gold colloid and powder. The dissolution kinetics of gold powder and colloid follow a shrinking sphere kinetic model in solutions of relatively low concentrations of thiosulfate and ammonia, with apparent rate constants being inversely proportional to particle radius. ::: ::: The best system for dissolving gold based on the results of this work is the copper(II)-ammonia-thiosulfate solution in the absence of oxygen or in the presence of oxygen. In the absence of oxygen, copper(II) 1.5-4.5 mM, thiosulfate 20-50 mM, ammonia 120-300 mM and pH 9.3-10 are the best conditions. The presences of carbonate and sulfite have a significant negative effect on the dissolution of gold. The presence of sodium trithionate shows a beneficial effect in the first two hours, while sodium tetrathionate or lead nitrate have a small negative effect and sodium nitrate showed no effect on the dissolution of gold. Silver nitrate and sodium chloride also show beneficial effects. In the presence of oxygen, copper(II) 2.0-3.0 mM, thiosulfate 50 mM, ammonia 240 mM and pH 9.3-9.5 are the best conditions.
Under anaerobic conditions tetl'athionate was metabolized by washed cells of Thiobacillus X to thiosulphat,e, sulphate, and smnll amounts of trithionate and pentathionate. Depending upon the growth history of the cells large amounts of either elementary sulphur or higher polythionates were also former1. Some oxidation of the inner sulphur of tetrathionate occurred during tho metabolism of t·etra· thionate under nitrogen. The quantitative relationships between the amounts of tetrathionate metabolized and the products suggested that a major reaction was hydrolysis according to the equation: 8 4 0:-+20H-->SO!-+S20!-+S(OHh.
2 Research Highlights  UV-visible spectroscopy can measure the reaction extent of Cu(II) with 20 nm gold colloids and thiosulphate ions under nitrogen  Increase in pH from 9 to 10 increases residual Cu(II) and free ammonia to enhance gold dissolution  Ag(I) or chloride ions do not affect residual Cu(II) but enhance gold dissolution (100% in 1-2 h) by catalysing anodic reaction  Carbonate ions enhance residual Cu(II) leading to slow but steady gold dissolution (95% in 5 h)  Sulphite ions react with Cu(II) and cause low gold dissolution (20% in 6 h)  Tetra/trithionate lower the residual Cu(II) and cease gold dissolution at 85% after 2-3 h indicating surface blockage  Overall effect of additives follow the order: AgNO 3 > NaCl ~ Na 2 SO 4 > NaNO 3 ~ none > Pb(NO 3 ) 2 > Na 2 S 4 O 6 ~ Na 2 S 3 O 6 > Na 2 SO 3 Graphical Abstract 
Sulfur-containing compounds are known to be susceptible to oxidation by aqueous HOCl, but the factors affecting the rates of these reactions are not well-established. Here we report on the kinetics of oxidation of thiosulfate, thiourea, thioglycolate, (methylthio)acetate, tetrathionate, dithiodiglycolate, and dithiodipropionate at 25 °C and 0.4 M ionic strength. These reactions obey the general rate law -d[OCl-]/dt = (kOCl-[OCl-] + kHOCl[HOCl])[substrate] with some exceptions: tetrathionate and the two disulfides undergo rate-limiting hydrolysis at high pH, and dithiodiglycolate has an additional term in the rate law that is second order in [substrate]. The reactions of HOCl are believed to have a Cl+ transfer mechanism, and in the case of thiosulfate the rate of hydrolysis of the ClS2O3- intermediate was determined. In the case of thiourea evidence was obtained for thiourea monoxide as a long-lived product. It is shown that sulfite and species with terminal sulfur atoms have kHOCl values in the vicinity of 1 × 109 M-1 s-1, while SCN- and thioethers react somewhat more slowly; tetrathionate, trithionate, and disulfides react much more slowly. Comparison of the rate constants with those for oxidation of these sulfur substrates by H2O2 and [Pt(CN)4Cl2]2- shows that HOCl reacts a few orders of magnitude more rapidly than [Pt(CN)4Cl2]2- and ∼9 orders of magnitude more rapidly than H2O2. Many of the kHOCl values are leveled by the high electrophilicity of HOCl. It is proposed that the kOCl- values correspond to oxygen-atom transfer mechanisms, as supported by LFERS (linear free energy relationships) relating these rate constants to those for reactions of H2O2 and [Pt(CN)4Cl2]2-.
A moderately thermophilic, facultatively chemolithoautotrophic thiobacillus isolated from a thermal sulphur spring is described. It differs from all other species currently known to be in culture. It grows lithoautotrophically on thiosulphate, trithionate or tetrathionate, which are oxidized to sulphate. Batch cultures on thiosulphate do not produce tetrathionate, but do precipitate elemental sulphur during growth. In autotrophic chemostat cultures the organism produces yields on thiosulphate, trithionate and tetrathionate that are among the highest observed for a Thiobacillus. Autotrophic cultures contain ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase. Heterotrophic growth has been observed only on complex media such as yeast extract and nutrient broth. It is capable of autotrophic growth and denitrification under anaerobic conditions with thiosulphate and nitrate. It grows between 30 to 55° C, and pH 7 to 9, with best growth at about 43°C and pH 7.6. It contains ubiquinone Q-8, and its DNA contains 65.7 mol% G+C. The organism is formally described and named as Thiobacillus aquaesulis.
The trithionate−chlorine dioxide reaction has been studied spectrophotometrically in a slightly acidic medium at 25.0 ± 0.1 °C in acetate/acetic acid buffer monitoring the decay of chlorine dioxide at constant ionic strength (I =0 .5 M) adjusted by sodium perchlorate. We found that under our experimental conditions two limiting stoichiometries exist and the pH, the concentration of the reactants, and even the concentration of chloride ion affects the actual stoichiometry of the reaction that can be augmented by an appropriate linear combination of these limiting processes. It is also shown that although the formal kinetic order of trithionate is strictly one that of chlorine dioxide varies between 1 and 2, depending on the actual chlorine dioxide excess and the pH. Moreover, the otherwise sluggish chloride ion, which is also a product of the reaction, slightly accelerates the initial rate of chlorine dioxide consumption and may therefore act as an autocatalyst. In addition to that, overshoot−undershoot behavior is also observed in the ( · ClO2)−time curves in the presence of chloride ion at chlori ne dioxide excess. On the basis of the experiments, a 13-step kinetic model with 6 fitted kinetic parameter is proposed by nonlinear parameter estimation.
Dissimilatory sulfate-reducing bacteria, belonging to the genera Desulfovibrio and Desulfotomaculum can carry out the process of anaerobic respiration by utilizing inorganic sulfate as a terminal electron acceptor. The overall process of dissimilatory sulfate reduction may be considered to occur in two phases. They are (1) the reduction of sulfate to bisulfite through the intermediate Compound, adenylyl sulfate (APS), and (2) the reduction of bisulfite to sulfide. The biochemistry of (1), with respect to the pathway by which sulfate is reduced to bisulfite, has been firmly established. The sequence of events and the intermediate involved were unequivocally determined. In contrast, the issue concerning the pathway of bisulfite reduction to sulfide is still unsettled. One view advocates a direct reduction of bisulfite to sulfide comparable to the mechanism ascribed to the assimilatory sulfite reductase. The other hypothesis supports the view that bisulfite is reduced to sulfide sequentially through a pathway containing trithionate and thiosulfate as intermediates. It is the purpose of this review to discuss the current status of the mechanistic aspects of sulfate reduction with emphasis placed on the bisulfite reduction process catalyzed by dissimilatory sulfate-reducing bacteria.
Abstract A kinetic study of the cleavage of trithionate has been made in water over the temperature range of 40–80°C, and in aqueous ammonia solutions over the range of 40–70°C. In aqueous ammonia, the ammonolytic reaction of trithionate was found to proceed in competition with the hydrolytic one. For both reactions, a rate law of the form, -d[S 3 O 6 2 ]/d t = k a [NH 3 ][S 3 O 6 2− ] and -d[S 3 O 6 2− ]/d t = k w [H 2 O][S 3 O 6 2− ], was obtained. In the presence of thiosulfate, the thiosulfate-trithionate reaction, described by, -d[S 3 O 6 2− ]/d t = k t [S 2 O 6 2− ][S 3 O 6 2− ], may proceed in parallel with either or both the above solvolytic reactions. The activation parameters suggest that the mechanism of the solvolytic reactions differs from that of the thiosulfate-trithionate reaction which is expected to involve a nucleophilic displacement at the bivalent sulfur in trithionate. A mechanism of the cleavage of trithionate supported by the kinetic results has been proposed.
Analytical procedures based on ion chromatography utilising an anion exchange column and UV detection are described for the quantification of thiosulfate, polythionates and gold thiosulfate both in leach solutions and adsorbed on anion exchange resins. The analysis of resins involves a two step perchlorate strip, and since perchlorate is used as the chromatography eluent, the high background concentration in the sample has little effect on the retention. Results are reported for the analysis of gold thiosulfate leach solutions and it is shown that tetrathionate and pentathionate are the dominant reaction products from thiosulfate oxidation at pH 8.5 and 9, whilst trithionate and sulfate are formed at pH 10.4. An increase in thiosulfate consumption when increasing pH from 8.5 to 9 is attributed to the increase in the rate of copper(I) oxidation with increasing ammonia concentration. However, the rate of thiosulfate consumption is higher at pH 9.0 than pH 10.4, and this is explained in terms of the differing reaction products. The adsorption of thiosulfate, polythionates and gold thiosulfate onto anion exchange resins is also discussed with reference to the quantification of the equilibrium solution and resin concentration of each species. Isotherms for gold on resin vs. gold in solution are reported for solutions of various polythionate concentrations.
This thesis presents the chararacteristics of eight biomass ash/char samples obtained from three pulp and paper mills in Canada. It also discusses the results from the adsorption studies conducted using these biomass ash/char to remove sulfur and selenium oxy-anions from mining effluent water streams such Acid Mine Drainage (AMD). Chemical, physical, thermal and structural characteristics investigated in this study confirmed the suitability of using these ash/char as adsorbents in waste water treatment applications. Batch equilibrium adsorption experiments were performed using individual solutions of thiosulphate, trithionate, tetrathionate, selenite and selenate by varying different parameters (ash type, initial pH, adsorbent dose, temperature). Maximum adsorption efficiency and adsorption capacity values obtained for sulphur oxy-anions were 35.6% and 14.24 mg/g of CBM-W biomass char. For selenium oxy-anions, the maximum adsorption efficiency and adsorption capacity values were at 15.2% and 0.211 mg/g of CLM2 biomass ash. Thermodynamic parameters were calculated and the data were fitted using Langmuir and Freundlich isotherm equations. The results confirmed that sulphur and selenium oxy-anions have considerable affinity towards biomass ash/char. However, further characterization of spent biomass ash/char needs to be carried out in order to identify the adsorption mechanism and also to modify biomass ash/char chemically or thermally to yield high removal efficiencies. Therefore, this study substantially contributes in assessing the feasibility of using one waste stream to treat another waste stream in the field of sustainable waste management.
A set of 48 novel ion-exchange (1EX) resins bearing a range of amine and ::: quaternary ammonium moieties were prepared on a polystyrene-divinylbenzene ::: substrate. These were tested in Bottle-Roll (B/R) tests using a simulated ammoniacal ::: thiosulfate leach solution. The relative gold sorption capacities of these resins were ::: compared and assessed in terms of common structural features, with a view to ::: developing a gold-selective resin for use with thiosulfate leachates. Elution of the ::: gold-loaded resins was also examined, and a shortlist of promising structural ::: features was derived from the combined results. ::: A common reaction scheme was employed for most preparations, via ::: treatment of the exhaustively chloromethylated resin substrate with excess amine in ::: dimethylformamide. The subsequent functionalised resins were characterised using ::: infra-red spectroscopy, solid state 13C-NMR spectroscopy, ion-exchange testing and ::: elemental analysis. The weak-base resins prepared in this manner were then ::: exhaustively allcylated with either benzyl chloride or iodomethane, to provide a ::: range of structurally related moieties. These included alkylated derivatives of ::: ethanolamine, diethanolamine, piperidine, morpholine, piperazine, imidazole, and ::: tetramethy1-1,2-diaminoethane. ::: The resin moieties were examined by computational techniques to determine ::: approximate pKavalues, and by 13C-NMR spectroscopy. Minimum-energy structural ::: conformations were obtained using molecular modelling (MM+ parameters). The ::: gold and copper thiosulfate complexes, along with the thiosulfate, trithionate and ::: tetrathionate anions were modelled using ab-initio density functional theory (DFT). ::: The performance of the resins was compared in B/R tests using an artificial ::: leach liquor (pH —10.2) containing gold (20 ppm), copper (200 ppm), ammonia (1.3 M) and thiosulfate (0.1 M). Gold sorption by the resin was followed by periodic ::: sampling of the liquor and AAS analysis, over a 24 hour period. Relative gold ::: affinity for each resin was assessed using the ratio of maximum gold sorption to LEX ::: capacity (ie. [Au]R/Cm), with values ranging up to 16.2 mmol Au per mol of EEX ::: sites (resin BIM1; N'-benzylimidazole). ::: Comparison between the various methyl and benzyl- derivatives showed that ::: gold loading was relatively insensitive to the steric bulk of the functional group. ::: However, gold affinity was apparently enhanced by 2-hydroxyethyl and imidazolium ::: moieties. A set of promising moieties (piperidineethanol, quinuclidine, TMEDA, ::: and methyl derivatives of diethanolamine, imidazole, morpholine and piperazine) ::: had similar [Au]R/Cm values to the commercial IEX resins Dowex-1, IRA-410 and ::: Amberlite A26 (-10 mmol/mol). These resins were examined in controlled B/R tests ::: spiked with 10 ppm trithionate, with the trithionate and tetrathionate concentrations ::: followed by ion chromatography (IC). The novel resins loaded more slowly and were ::: more perturbed by the presence of an initial 10 ppm trithionate, while the ::: commercial resins were more rapidly fouled by trithionate. ::: The quinuclidine resin was subjected to four cycles of B/R gold loading and ::: elution. The resin retained 89% of the initial gold sorption capacity, and 99% of the ::: adsorbed gold was eluted with a modified nitrate eluent.
The reported reaction rates for the reduction of copper(II) by thiosulphate and oxidation of gold by copper(II) are reviewed and the results are quantified by considering the formation of NaS2O3-, NaSO4-, Cu(NH3) p(S2O3)0, Cu(NH3) p(SO4)0 and Cu(NH3) p(S2O5)0 or Cu(NH3)p(HSO3)20 (p = 2-3). The production of sulphate and trithionate during oxygenation can be rationalised according to three stoichiometric relationships corresponding to the [oxygen]/[thiosulphate] consumption ratios: 0.67/1, 1/1 and 1/2. These three ratios represent the formation of 100% trithionate, a 1:1 mixture of trithionate and sulphate, and 100% sulphate respectively. The detrimental effect of excess aeration/oxygenation on gold extraction can be related to the formation of disulphite ion and its association with copper(II)-ammonia complex ions, and subsequent disproportionation. However, controlled aeration would minimize copper(II) reduction and maintain a higher rate of gold oxidation. It would also lower thiosulphate oxidation by favoring the formation of tetrathionate and its alkaline hydrolysis. Thus, research activities in this area will be useful (i) to find a balance between maximum gold oxidation and minimum thiosulphate degradation, and (ii) to provide a deeper understanding of the mechanism of reactions responsible for the oxidation of gold and aqueous sulphur species, in the absence or presence of ammonia.
Parameters of growth of Thiobacillus fenooxidans were examined with the use of iron pyrite as the substrate. The concentrations of end products deviated from the stoichiometric lFe/2S ratio, reflecting the precipitation of Fe(lII). Minor amounts of trithionate accumulated transiently during growth, tetrathionate was not detected, and thiosulfate was present at trace concentrations. Bacterial growth was monitored by measurement of cell protein; 17-34% of the bacterial cells were associated with the solids. A molar growth yield of 1.92 (g dry weight bacteria per mol FeS2) was determined from batch culture data and growth was estimated to couple with pyrite oxidation at 10-12% efficiency.
The sulfite reductase of Desulfovibrio vulgaris, strain Miyazaki F (MF), was purified by ammonium sulfate precipitation and chromatography on DEAE-cellulose, Ultrogel AcA34, and hydroxylapatite. The molecular weight was estimated to be 180,000 by gel filtration. It had a subunit structure of (1,2132; the molecular weight of the (1, subunit was 50,000 and that of 13, 39,000. The absorption spectrum with characteristic peaks at 629 and 409 nm and the amino acid composition resembled those of the sulfite reductase from D. vulgaris, Miyazaki K. The MF enzyme reduced sulfite to trithionate, thiosulfate, and sulfide by hydrogen when coupled with a hydrogenase-methyl viologen system, like other sulfite reductases from Desulfovibrio. 2359
The proposed method consists of five procedures: the thiocyanate formed from the hydrogen sulfide evolved in Procedure 1 and an excess of iodine for reaction with the sulfur dioxide evolved in Procedure 2 are measured; the thiosulfate in Procedure 3 and the thiosulfate, plus that formed from tetrathionate by its sulfitolysis in Procedure 4, and finally an excess of iodate for the oxidation of thiosulfate, trithionate and tetrathionate in Procedure 5, are all measured by spectrophotometry. Procedure 1 can be applied to the determination of up to 6 × 10–4 mol l–1 of sulfide, Procedure 2 for up to 2.4 × 10–4 mol l–1 of sulfite, and Procedure 3 for up to 4.8 × 10–4 mol l–1 of thiosulfate. Procedure 4 is for the measurement of up to 4.8 × 10–4 mol l–1 of the total amount of thiosulfate plus tetrathionate, and Procedure 5 determines up to 4.5 × 10–5 mol l–1 of the total thiosulfate, trithionate plus tetrathionate. The method can be successfully applied to the determination of sulfide, sulfite, thiosulfate, trithionate and tetrathionate mixed in various amounts. The relative standard deviations, based on eight replicate analyses of a 10 ml solution containing a mixture of 1.0 µmol of sulfide, sulfite, thiosulfate, trithionate and tetrathionate, were 1.5, 1.2, 1.1, 1.9 and 1.1% for sulfide, sulfite, thiosulfate, trithionate and tetrathionate, respectively. Good recoveries of thiosulfate, trithionate and tetrathionate from hot-spring and lake water samples, to which various known amounts of thiosulfate, trithionate and tetrathionate had been added, were achieved with an average recovery of 98.9%.
Deenergized cells of Desulfovibrio desulfuricans strain Essex 6 formed trithionate and thiosulfate during reduction of sulfite with H2 or formate. The required conditions were pretreatment with the uncoupler carbonylcyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone (CCCP), low concentration of the electron donor H2 or formate (25–200 μM) and the presence of sulfite in excess (>250 μM). The cells formed up to 20 μM thiosulfate, and variable amounts of trithionate (0–9 μM) and sulfide (0–62 μM). Tetrathionate was not produced. Sulfate could not replace sulfite in these experiments, as deenergized cells cannot activate sulfate. However, up to 5 μM thiosulfate was produced by cells growing with H2 and excess sulfate in a chemostat. Micromolar concentrations of trithionate were incompletely reduced to thiosulfate and sulfide by washed cells in the presence of CCCP. Millimolar trithionate concentrations blocked the formation of sulfide, even in the absence of CCCP, and caused thiosulfate accumulation; sulfide formation from sulfate, sulfite or thiosulfate was stopped, too. Trithionate reduction with H2 in the presence of thiocyanate was coupled to respiration-driven proton translocation (extrapolated H+/H2 ratios of 1.5±0.6). Up to 150 μM trithionate was formed by washed cells during oxidation of sulfite plus thiosulfate with ferricyanide as electron acceptor (reversed trithionate reductase activity). Cell breakage resulted in drastic decrease of sulfide formation. Cell-free extract reduced sulfite incompletely to trithionate, thiosulfate, and sulfide. Thiosulfate was reduced stoichiometrically to sulfite and sulfide (thiosulfate reductase activity). The formation of sulfide from sulfite, thiosulfate or trithionate by cell-free extract was blocked by methyl viologen, leading to increased production of thiosulfate plus trithionate from sulfite, or increased thiosulfate formation from trithionate. Our study demonstrates for the first time the formation of intermediates during sulfite reduction with whole cells of a sulfate-reducing bacterium oxidizing physiological electron donors. All results are in accordance with the trithionate pathway of sulfite reduction.
The metabolic pathway for the utilization of thiosulfate by the acidophilic chemoautotroph, Thiobacillus ferrooxidans, has been examined by chromatographic and radiographic techniques. With suitable chemical controls, it was found that the major pathway involved 2 moles of thiosulfate passing to tetrathionate to trithionate regenerating 1 mole of thiosulfate concurrent with the production of 2 moles of sulfate. Thus, previous findings which demonstrate this pathway as far as trithionate, made with other thiobacilli, are sound despite recent documentation of the chemical interaction of various polythionates. The cyclical pathway, proposed here, explains some findings of other workers.
Publisher Summary This chapter describes assay procedures for a variety of enzymes occurring in lithotrophs and some heterotrophs. Some of these enzymes, such as adenylylsulfate (APS) reductase and thiosulfate reductase also occur in sulfate-reducing bacteria (SRB). Thiosulfate and polythionates serve as energy-yielding or electron-donating substrates in the metabolism of a wide range of chemolithotrophic and photolithotrophic bacteria, as well as some heterotrophs. Thiosulfate dehydrogenase is purified from a number of different Thiobacillus spp. and found to vary greatly in structural and catalytic properties. The activity of trithionate hydrolase was first demonstrated in Thiobacillus neapolitanus ( T. neapolitanus ) and the enzyme subsequently was recovered from both Thiobacillus tepidarius ( T. tepidarius ) and Thiobacillus acidophilus ( T. acidophilus ). The enzyme can be determined in a coupled assay with thiosulfate dehydrogenase, using 0.1 m M sodium trithionate instead of thiosulfate, and measuring thiosulfate-dependent cytochrome c reduction at pH 7.0. Thiosulfate produced by the hydrolase becomes the substrate for an excess of thiosulfate dehydrogenase and the rate of reduction of cytochrome c equates to the specific activity of the hydrolase.
The tetrathionate (Ttr) and thiosulfate (Phs) reductases of Salmonella enterica LT2, together with the polysulfide reductase (Psr) of Wolinella succinogenes, are unusual examples of enzymes containing a molybdopterin active-site cofactor since all formally catalyse sulfur–sulfur bond cleavage. This is in contrast to the oxygen or hydrogen transfer reactions exhibited by other molybdopterin enzymes. Here the catalytic specificity of Ttr and Phs has been compared using both physiological and synthetic electron-donor systems. Ttr is shown to catalyse reduction of trithionate but not sulfur or thiosulfate. In contrast, Phs cannot reduce tetrathionate or trithionate but allows whole cells to utilize elemental sulfur as an electron acceptor. Mechanisms are proposed by which the bacterium is able to utilize an insoluble sulfur substrate by means of reactions at the cytoplasmic rather than the outer membrane.
Cesium fluoride reacts with SO2 under an ultrasonic treatment, with the formation of Cs2S3O6 and SO2F2 instead of CsSO2F. The trithionate salt crystallizes with one solvent molecule (Cs2S3O6·SO2) in the monoclinic space group P21/c with a = 9.702(3) A, b = 15.315(6) A, c = 7.558(4) A, β = 97.17(4)°, and 4 formula units per unit cell. The reaction route for the CsF/SO2 system is discussed with regard to the activation or reactivation of CsF as catalyst.
The disproportionation of thiosulfate, trithionate, tetrathionate and sulfite in acidic solutions has been studied at relatively high temperatures. Thiosulfate hardly decomposes in the absence of sulfuric acid, even at 150 °C, but decomposes very easily in the presence of sulfuric acid at 70 °C, forming elemental sulfur, tetrathionate and sulfite. Trithionate decomposes to thiosulfate and sulfate at 70 °C, while tetrathionate decomposes only at temperatures above 130 °C after an induction period forming thiosulfate as an intermediate. Sulfite undergoes disproportionation, giving thiosulfate and sulfate at 150 °C, and then elemental sulfur and sulfate accompanied by intermediate formation of tetrathionate. A disproportionation pathway of low valence sulfur oxyacids including thiosulfate, trithionate, tetrathionate and sulfite has been proposed.
The tetrathionate (Ttr) and thiosulfate (Phs) reductases of Salmonella enterica LT2, together with the polysulfide reductase (Psr) of Wolinella succinogenes, are unusual examples of enzymes containing a molybdopterin active-site cofactor since all formally catalyse sulfur-sulfur bond cleavage. This is in contrast to the oxygen or hydrogen transfer reactions exhibited by other molybdopterin enzymes. Here the catalytic specificity of Ttr and Phs has been compared using both physiological and synthetic electron-donor systems. Ttr is shown to catalyse reduction of trithionate but not sulfur or thiosulfate. In contrast, Phs cannot reduce tetrathionate or trithionate but allows whole cells to utilize elemental sulfur as an electron acceptor. Mechanisms are proposed by which the bacterium is able to utilize an insoluble sulfur substrate by means of reactions at the cytoplasmic rather than the outer membrane.
A series of isopropyl diaryl phosphonothionates and trithionates have been prepared. These are evaluated in vitro against seven fungi viz. R. bataticola, A. alternate, H. oryzae, S. rolfsi, P. aphanidermatum aad F. solani and d. oryzae. Atleast ono compound was found to tossess very good activity against P. oryzae (ED 50 56 ppm). The rest of the compounds in the series possessed mild activity.
A method for the separation of the polythionates (SxO6(2-), x = 3-5) in gold thiosulfate leach solutions using ion-interaction chromatography with conductivity and ultraviolet (UV) detection is described. Polythionates were eluted within 18 min using an eluent comprising an acetonitrile step gradient at 0.0 min from 15% v/v to 28% v/v, 3 mM TBAOH, and 2.5 mM sodium carbonate, operated using a Dionex NS1-5 micron column with guard. The developed method was capable of separating the gold thiosulfate complex ion in standard solutions, but quantification of this species in realistic leach solutions proved impractical due to a self-elution effect that caused the gold peak to be eluted as a broad band. Detection limits for polythionates using a 10 microL injection volume ranged between 1-6 mg L(-1) (5-23 microM) for conductivity and 0.8-13 mg L(-1) (4-68 microM) for UV detection, based on a signal-to-noise ratio of 2. Calibration was linear over the ranges 5-2000, 10-2000 and 25-2500 mg L(-1) for trithionate, tetrathionate and pentathionate, respectively. The technique was applied successfully to leach liquors containing 0.5 M ammonium thiosulfate, 2 M ammonia, 0.05 M copper sulfate and 20 % m/v gold ore.
The low temperature X-ray structural determinations of sodium trithionate trihydrate, anhydrous potassium tetrathionate and potassium pentathionate hydrate are reported. A statistical survey of potassium–sulfur interactions has been performed, and the K–S (tetra- and pentathionate donors) bonds highlighted. A supramolecular R(8) ring motif composed of four covalent S–S bonds and four weak intermolecular S···S interactions has been found in the structure of the pentathionate. The low temperature X-ray structural determinations of sodium trithionate trihydrate, anhydrous potassium tetrathionate and potassium pentathionate hydrate are reported.
Washed cells of Desulfovibrio vulgaris strain Marburg oxidized H2, formate, lactate or pyruvate with sulfate, sulfite, trithionate, thiosulfate or oxygen as electron acceptor. CuCl2 as an inhibitor of periplasmic hydrogenase inhibited H2 and formate oxidation with sulfur compounds, and lactate oxidation in H2-grown, but not in lactate-grown cells. H2 oxidation was sensitive to O2 concentrations above 2% saturation. Carbon monoxide inhibited the oxidation of all substrates tested. Additions of micromolar H2 pulses to cells incubated in KCl in the presence of various sulfur compounds (reductant pulse method) resulted in a reversible acidification. This proton release was stimulated by thiocyanate, methyl triphenylphosphonium (MTPP+) or valinomycin plus EDTA, and completely inhibited by the uncoupler carbonylcyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone (CCCP), CuCl2 or carbon monoxide. The extrapolated H+/H2 ratios obtained with sulfate, sulfite, trithionate or thiosulfate varied from 1.0 to 1.7. Micromolar additions of O2 to cells incubated in the presence of excess of electron donor (oxidant pulse method) caused proton translocation with extrapolated H+/H2 ratios of 3.9 with H2, 1.6 with lactate and 2.4 with pyruvate. Since a periplasmic hydrogenase can release at maximum 2 H+/H2, it is concluded that D. vulgaris is able to generate a proton gradient by vectorial proton translocation across the cytoplasmic membrane and by extracellular proton release by a periplasmic hydrogenase.
1) The distribution coefficient of di-, tri-, tetra-, and penta-thionates between anion-exchange resins and hydrochloric acid solution was measured. The adsorb-ability of the polythionates increases with the number of sulfur atoms in the ion, i. e. pentathionate>tetrathionate>trithionate>dithionate. 2) The separation of polythionates was accomplished by the anion-exchange chromatography by the use of hydrochloric acid in various concentrations as the eluant. 3) The application of anion-exchange chromatography to the analysis of Wackenroder’s liquid was studied.
Thiosulfate leaching is an alternative process to cyanidation for recovering gold from ores. Resin in pulp has been suggested as a possible operation for the recovery of gold from the thiosulfate leach solutions. The aim of this work is to investigate the adsorption of polythionates and thiosulfate on strong based anion exchange resins, as they are the competing species for the adsorption of gold. The kinetics of thiosulfate, trithionate and tetrathionate load is first order, approaching equilibrium. The equilibrium constants for the adsorption reactions were obtained using the experimental data. The use of the rate constants and equilibrium constants for adsorption allows the resin in pulp process to be effectively modelled.
We show that the chlorite–trithionate reaction is “supercatalytic”; i.e., the formal kinetic order of the autocatalyst H+ is 2. A simple model is proposed and discussed to describe the unusual concentration dependencies of one-dimensional front propagation found experimentally. It is also demonstrated that at relatively wide concentration ranges the linear two-dimensional front initiated loses its stability, giving rise to an appearance of cellular structures in a convection-free system. Compared to the chlorite–tetrathionate reaction, however, this system is much more stable at alkaline conditions, even for hours; therefore, no side reactions can be taken into consideration to check whether they may have any side effects on the evolution of spatiotemporal structures.
The non-oxidative decomposition of heated sodium dithionite was shown by thermal and i.r. spectroscopic analyses to proceed by two routes depending on sample configuration. The previously postulated reaction ::: ::: ::: ::: predominated when the heaped substance was heated at 16 °C/min giving a sudden exotherm of 47 kJ mol−1 at 205 °C. In other conditions, particularly when heated in thin layers, two exotherms were found. The major exotherm at 210 °C yielded 63 kJ mol−1 the main products being thiosulphate, trithionate, sulphate and sulphite. A subsequent exotherm at 250 °C appeared to arise from phase changes in this material, coincident with the endothermic decomposition of sodium trithionate.
Thiobacillus thermosulfatus ATCC 51520T (T = type strain) was isolated from sewage sludge samples enriched with elemental sulfur. The cells of this organism were gram negative, rod shaped, motile, facultatively autotrophic, and strictly aerobic and contained polyphosphate inclusions and polyhedral bodies. During growth on thiosulfate, the following intermediates were produced: tetrathionate, trithionate, and sulfate, and the pH was lowered from neutrality to around 2.5. Autotrophic growth was observed at pH values between 4.3 and 7.8 and at temperatures of 34 to 65°C; optimum growth occurred at pH 5.2 to 5.6 and 50 to 52.5°C. Ubiquinone Q8 was present in the respiratory chain. The DNA contained 61 ± 1 mol% G+C. No denitrification was observed under autotrophic and heterotrophic conditions. The cells produced a glycocalyx during growth in the presence of S0. As determined by a 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis, T. thermosulfatus is a distinct species that belongs to the beta subdivision of the Proteobacteria and is closely related phylogenetically to Thiobacillus perometabolis. The GenBank accession number for the complete 16S rRNA gene sequence of T. thermosulfatus is U27839.
Thiobacillus thermusulfatus ATCC 51520T (T = type strain) was isolated from sewage sludge samples enriched with elemental sulfur. The cells of this organism were gram negative, rod shaped, motile, facultatively autotrophic, and strictly aerobic and contained polyphosphate inclusions and polyhedral bodies. During growth on thiosulfate, the following intermediates were produced: tetrathionate, trithionate, and sulfate, and the pH was lowered from neutrality to around 2.5. Autotrophic growth was observed at pH values between 4.3 and 7.8 and at temperatures of 34 to 65°C; optimum growth occurred at pH 5.2 to 5.6 and 50 to 52.5"C. Ubiquinone QS was present in the respiratory chain. The DNA contained 61 f 1 mol% G+C. No denitrification was observed under autotrophic and heterotrophic conditions. The cells produced a glycocalyx during growth in the presence of So. As determined by a 16s rRNA gene sequence analysis, T. thermosulfatus is a distinct species that belongs to the beta subdivision of the Proteubacteria and is closely related phylogenetically to Thiobacillus perumetabulis. The GenBank accession number for the complete 16s rRNA gene sequence of T. thermosulfatus is U27839.
The trithionate-iodate reaction has been studied spectrophotometrically in an acidic medium at 25.0 ± 0.1 °C in phosphoric acid/dihydrogen phosphate buffer, monitoring the absorbance at 468 nm at the isosbestic point of the iodine-triiodide ion system and at I = 0.5 M ionic strength adjusted by sodium perchlorate. The main characteristics of the title system are very reminiscent of those found recently in the pentathionate-iodate and the pentathionate-periodate reactions, the systems paving the way for classifying clock reactions. Thorough analysis revealed that the direct trithionate-iodate reaction plays a subtle role only to produce a trace amount of iodide ion via a finite sequence of reactions, and once its concentration reaches a certain level, then the reaction is almost exclusively governed by the trithionate-iodine and iodide-iodate reactions. The title reaction, as expected, was experimentally proven to be autocatalytic with respect to iodide ion. A simple three-step Landolt-type kinetic model is proposed to describe adequately the most important kinetic features of the title system that can easily be extended to a feasible sequence of elementary and quasi-elementary reactions.
Abstract A high-performance liquid chromatographic method was developed for the determination of the sulfur oxyanions, thiosulfate and polythionates, in natural saline waters. This method utilises preconcentration techniques to effectively enrich the analytes whilst discriminating against the high chloride concentrations present, and is based on the novel combination of an ion-exchange pre-column in succession with a reversed phase analytical column and an eluent based on a water-acetonitrile mixture containing tetrabutylammonium ions and carbonate buffer. The limit of detection is 1 n M for trithionate and 0.3 n M for tetrathionate and pentathionate when concentrating 6 ml of 1:50 diluted seawater. The method has a precision of 0.25% for concentrations of 1 μ M . Analysis time is approximately 30 mins.
Abstract Oxidation of pyrite (FeS 2 ) under anaerobic conditions in marine sediments is experimentally shown for the first time. In slurry experiments with 55 FeS 2 and a MnO 2 rich marine sediment an oxidation of 55 FeS 2 was detected which decreased with depth and decreasing concentration of MnO 2 in the sediment. FeS 2 and iron sulfide (FeS) were oxidized chemically at pH 8 by MnO 2 but not by nitrate or amorphic Fe(III) oxide. Elemental sulfur and sulfate were the only products of FeS oxidation, whereas FeS 2 was oxidized to a variety of sulfur compounds, mainly sulfate plus intermediates such as thiosulfate, trithionate, tetrathionate, and pentathionate. Thiosulfate was oxidized by MnO 2 to tetrathionate while other intermediates were oxidized to sulfate. The reaction products indicate that FeS 2 was oxidized via the “Thiosulfate-mechanism” and FeS via the “Polysulfide-mechanism” (Schippers and Sand, 1999) . The processes are summarized by the overall equations: (1) FeS 2 +7.5 MnO 2 +11 H + →Fe(OH) 3 +2 SO 4 2− +7.5 Mn 2+ +4 H 2 O (2) FeS+1.5 MnO 2 +3 H + →Fe(OH) 3 +S O +1.5 Mn 2+ For FeS 2 oxidation the reaction rates related to the mineral surface area were 1.02 and 1.12 nmol m −2 s −1 for total dissolved S and total dissolved Fe, respectively. Since these values are in the same range as previously published rates for the oxidation of FeS 2 by Fe(III), and since Fe(III) is a well-known oxidant for FeS 2 even at circumneutral pH, Fe(III) is assumed also to be the oxidant for FeS and FeS 2 in the presence of MnO 2 . At the iron sulfide surface, Fe(III) is reduced to Fe(II) which is reoxidized to Fe(III) by MnO 2 . Thus, an Fe(II)/Fe(III) shuttle should transport electrons between the surfaces of the two solid compounds.
With growing environmental and occupational safety concerns over the use of cyanide in gold processing, more acceptable alternatives are receiving increased interest. The most promising of the possible alternatives is thiosulfate. However, as activated carbon is not an effective substrate for the adsorption of the gold thiosulfate complex, the thiosulfate process lacks a proven in-pulp method for recovering dissolved gold. Anion exchange resins offer a possible route for in-pulp recovery. This thesis describes work aimed at evaluating the effectiveness of commercially available anion exchange resins for the recovery of gold from thiosulfate leach liquors and pulps. ::: ::: It was found that Strong-base resins are superior at accommodating the gold thiosulfate complex compared to Weak-base resins, which means Strong-base resins have a greater capacity to compete with other anions in leach solutions. Strong-base resins were therefore the preferred choice of resin for recovery of gold from thiosulfate leach solutions and pulps. Work with a selected commercial Strong-base resin showed that competing polythionates (particularly tri- and tetrathionate) lower the maximum possible loading of gold but that gold is selectively recovered over other base-metal anions in typical leach solutions. From kinetic experiments, it was found that competing polythionates did not affect the initial rate of loading of gold but displaced the loaded gold at long times. Thus it would be important to minimise the contact time of the resin with the pulp. ::: ::: Equilibrium loading isotherms of gold in the presence of competing anions could be analysed by treating the ion exchange reaction as a simple chemical reaction. However, a stoichiometry and equilibrium quotient which does not follow that normally used for anion exchange, was required to describe the experimental data. A single value for the equilibrium constant also cannot be used to describe the data over the range of concentrations for a given competing anion. The order of selectivity of the anions for the anion exchange resin could be explained by the difference in structure and the charge of each anion. ::: ::: The rate of loading of gold is controlled by mass transport in the aqueous phase in the presence of weakly competing anions such as sulfate and thiosulfate. An attempt was made to describe the more complex loading curves obtained in the presence of stronger competing anions such as sulfite, trithionate and tetrathionate in which it was found that the loading of gold increased to a maximum before declining to a lower equilibrium value. The difference in the rate of loading between the macroporous and gel anion exchange resins was explained by the difference in the location of their functional groups. ::: ::: Operation of a small-scale resin-in-pulp plant showed that gold could be recovered from a leach pulp to yield loadings of gold of up to 6000 mg L-1 and loadings of copper below 100 mg L-1. Under ideal conditions, the gold concentration in the barren pulp could contain less than 0.01 mg L-1. Throughout the trial it was shown that loaded copper would be displaced by gold which would result in the loading of copper falling from 2000 mg L-1 in the last stage to lower than 100 mg L-1 on the resin in the first stage. It was observed that some of the dissolved gold precipitated or adsorbed on the solids during leaching. Some of this adsorbed gold was found to be recovered by the anion exchange resins that would have reported to the tails if a solid/liquid separation method was employed. ::: ::: Gold was efficiently eluted with a nitrate solution and the two-step elution process using aerated ammonia followed by nitrate effectively stripped all the copper and gold from the resin. This process was found not to materially affect the equilibrium gold concentration on the resin after eight cycles, thus allowing the resin to be recycled without the need for regeneration. Electrochemical studies showed that the gold thiosulfate complex was reduced on stainless steel from a nitrate solution. Conventional electrowinning could therefore be used to recover the gold from the eluant.
A technique for the separation of thiosulfate (S2O32-), polythionates (SxO62-, x = 3 to 5) and the gold(I) thiosulfate complex (Au(S2O3)23-) using capillary electrophoresis with simultaneous UV detection at 195 and 214 nm is presented. The five species were separated in under 3 min with a total analysis time of 8 min, using an electrolyte containing 25 mM 2,2-bis(hydroxymethyl)-2,2',2''-nitrilotriethanol (bis-tris) adjusted to pH 6.0 with sulfuric acid and an applied voltage of -30 kV. While the gold(I) thiosulfate complex could be separated from the other analytes of interest under these conditions, the quantification of this complex was not possible due to inconsistent peak areas and peak splitting effects induced by the sulfur-oxygen species in the leach matrix. Detection limits calculated for 3s pressure injection at 50 mbar ranged between 0.5-2 M. The method was linear over the ranges 40-8000, 10-2000, 10-2000, and 5-2000 M for thiosulfate, trithionate, tetrathionate, and pentathionate, respectively. The technique was applied successfully to leach liquors containing 0.5 M ammonium thiosulfate, 2 M ammonia, 0.05 M copper sulfate and 20% w/v gold ore, diluted 1:100 prior to analysis.
Growing cultures and nongrowing suspensions of Halothiobacillus neapolitanus selectively fractionated (32)S and (34)S during the oxidation of the sulfane- and sulfonate-sulfur atoms of thiosulfate. Sulfate was enriched in (32)S, with delta(34)S reaching -6.3 per thousand relative to the precursor sulfonate-sulfur of thiosulfate, which was progressively resynthesized from the thiosulfate-sulfane-sulfur during thiosulfate metabolism. Polythionates, principally trithionate, accumulated during thiosulfate oxidation and showed progressive increase in the relative (34)S content of their sulfonate groups, with delta(34)S values up to +20 per thousand, relative to the substrate sulfur. The origins of the sulfur in the sulfate and polythionate products of oxidation were tracked by the use thiosulfate labelled with (35)S in each of its sulfur atoms, enabling determination of the flow of the sulfur atoms into the oxidation products. The results confirm that highly significant fractionation of stable sulfur isotopes can be catalyzed by thiobacilli oxidizing thiosulfate, but that differences in the (34)S/(32)S ratios of the nonequivalent constituent sulfur atoms of the thiosulfate used as substrate mean that the oxidative fate of each atom needs separate determination. The data are very significant to the understanding of bacterial sulfur-compound oxidation and highly relevant to the origins of biogenic sulfate minerals.
In the most recent study, over 20 years ago, Fry et al. (1986) reported negligible sulfur isotope effects during thiosulfate oxidation by Thiobacillus versutus (now renamed Paracoccus versutus). This contrasted with some earlier work on Thiobacillus concretivorus (now renamed Acidithiobacillus thiooxidans) in which sulfide oxidation resulted in 32 S enrichment in sulfate (d 34 S À 10.5% to À 18.0%), and the accumulation of polythionate (S n O 6 2À ) enriched in 34 S (d 34 S up to 119%; Kaplan & Rittenberg, 1964 ). Since 1986, major reclassification of the Thiobacillus genus has occurred and variant pathways of sulfur-compound oxidation have been recognized among its former species. A unitary mechanism for thiosulfate oxidation has been established in the facultatively chemolithotrophic Alphaproteobacteria such as Paracoccus, Starkeya and Pseudaminobacter (Lu et al., 1985; Kelly, 1989; Kelly et al., 1997; Friedrich et al., 2001; Kappler et al., 2001; Quentmeier et al., 2003; Friedrich et al., 2008; Sauvé et al., 2007) , but the inorganic sulfur compound oxidation mechanisms operating in most chemolithotrophic Betaproteobacteria and Gammaproteobacteria are not yet fully elucidated (Kelly, 1989 (Kelly, , 1999 Kelly & Wood, 1994a, b; Beller et al., 2006) . The thiosulfate-oxidizing multienzyme Sox system operates in the Alphaproteobacteria (Bamford et al., 2002; Quentmeier et al., 2007; Reijerse et al., 2007; Sauvé et al., 2007) , but bacteria such as Thiobacillus and Halothiobacillus contain at most only some genes encoding the Sox proteins; they also commonly produce polythionates during thiosulfate oxidation, and grow readily on tetrathionate and trithionate (Wood & Kelly, 1986; Kelly, 1999; Petri et al., 2001; Beller et al., 2006; Meyer et al., 2007) . A role for isotope discrimination during sulfur compound oxidation was strongly indicated by the finding that the jarosite and gypsum (iron and calcium sulfates) surrounding altered pyrite deposits showed the sulfates to have d 34 S values of À 7% to À 10% relative to the pyritic-sulfur, consistent with their formation by bacterial oxidation of the sulfide to sulfate (Nissenbaum & Rafter, 1967) .
It was thus considered essential to reassess isotope discrimination during thiosulfate oxidation by the obligate chemolithotroph Halothiobacillus neapolitanus, which was previously reported to produce sulfate and polythionate enriched, respectively, in 32 S and 34 S (Chambers & Trudinger, 1979) . Detection and interpretation of any stable sulfur isotope effects was expected to be complicated by the known resynthesis of thiosulfate and of trithionate from the sulfane-sulfur atom (À S À) of thiosulfate (À S À SO 3 À) during its oxidation (Trudinger, 1964a; Kelly & Syrett, 1966; Kelly & Wood, 1994a) . Interpretation is further complicated by the fact that the two sulfur atoms of thiosulfate are neither chemically equivalent (S-oxidation states of À 1 for the sulfane-atom and 15 for the sulfonatesulfur; Vairavamurthy et al., 1993) nor isotopically equivalent with respect to 34 S/ 32 S ratios. Different batches of commercially available sodium thiosulfate show d 34 S values ranging from about 14% to À 4% (sulfane-sulfur) and 14% to 115% (sulfonate-sulfur), typically with a difference of 6-14% between the two atoms (Chambers & Trudinger, 1979; Fry et al., 1986; Smock et al., 1998) . Chambers & Trudinger (1979) suggested that a fruitful approach to resolving the problem of discrimination in 34 S/ 32 S fractionation during the oxidation of each sulfuratom of thiosulfate might be to use thiosulfate labelled in one or other atom with 35 S, enabling correlation of stable isotope patterns with the transformations of the individual sulfur atoms. This would also enable tracking of the role of polythionates. The differential use of the stable sulfur isotopes during thiosulfate oxidation by three strains of H. neapolitanus has been assessed, and 35 S tracers used to assist in discriminating between the effects seen with the nonidentical sulfur atoms within the thiosulfate.
The kinetics of reactions of trithionate and tetrathionate via different reaction pathways were studied in near-neutral solutions. In the case of trithionate, the predominant degradation reaction is hydrolysis to thiosulfate and sulfate. The pseudofirst-order rate constant is independent of pH and measured to be (6.2 ± 0.2) × 10(-7) s(-1) for the pH range of 5.5-10.5. With tetrathionate, the reaction in both neutral and alkaline solutions occurs via a thiosulfate catalyzed rearrangement reaction to trithionate and pentathionate followed by their further reactions. The data suggest that when thiosulfate is completely absent, this first step will not occur, and in the presence of thiosulfate, the rate of the first step is independent of pH in the pH range 6-8. The secondary reactions include the hydrolysis of trithionate and the further rearrangement and degradation of pentathionate. This mechanism explains the dominant reaction products for both neutral and alkaline solutions. In the presence of thiosulfate and at near-neutral pH, the rearrangement reactions dominate over the degradation reactions and exhibit second-order kinetics, with the rate constants in the pH range of 6-8 determined to be (4.24 ± 0.26) and (1.89 ± 0.18) × 10(-4) M(-1) s(-1) for tetra- and pentathionates, respectively. At extremely low thiosulfate concentrations, the main secondary reaction is the hydrolysis of trithionate at pH < 7, and at pH > 7, the degradation of pentathionate.
Publisher Summary This chapter describes reverse siroheme sulfite reductase from Thiobacillus denitrificans ( T. denitrificans ). Adenylylsulfate reductase has been found to occur only in the anaerobe T. denitrificans and in the aerobes Thiobacillus thioparus and “ Thiobacillus ” thiooxidans . A siroheme-containing sulfite reductase in high intracellular concentration is found in T. denitrificans . In contrast to the sulfite reductases in sulfate-reducing bacteria (SRB), in T. denitrificans the enzyme must function in the oxidative—or “reverse”—direction, oxidizing sulfane sulfur to sulfite. Sulfite reductase is measured in a manometric assay in the direction of sulfite reduction with enzymatically reduced methyl viologen as electron donor. The reduction of methyl viologen by hydrogen gas is catalyzed by purified hydrogenase from Desulfovibrio gigas . The consumption of hydrogen is recorded manometrically. The enzyme contains 24 mol of iron and 20 mol of (acid-labile) sulfur per mole of enzyme and can reduce sulfite, but not thiosulfate, dithionate, trithionate, or tetrathionate. Unlike assimilatory sulfite reductases the enzyme does not contain flavin groups.
The hydrolytic reactions of tetrasulphur tetranitride are studied in a homogeneous medium. Alkaline hydrolysis gives sulphite, thiosulphate, sulphate and sulphide whereas the products in acid hydrolysis are mainly sulphur dioxide, elemental sulphur and hydrogen sulphide, with traces of polythionates. Under optimum conditions, tetrasulphur tetranitride reacts with sulphite consuming 2 moles of sulphite per mole of sulphur nitride to give 2 moles of trithionate. The reaction of sulphur nitride with thiosulphuric acid gives pentathionate and tetrathionate.
Due to the increasing environmental and public concerns associated with cyanide leaching of gold, much of the current research in gold hydrometallurgy is focussed on alternative systems, such as thiosulfate. One of the major problems with the thiosulfate leaching system is the undesirable reaction between thiosulfate and copper(II). The current paper presents a study on the effect of various anions on the rate of this reaction. It will be shown that the presence of anions such as sulfate, chloride and phosphate significantly reduce the rate at which copper(II) is reduced by thiosulfate. The presence of other oxysulfur species such as sulfite, tetrathionate and trithionate were also studied. These species were found to be readily oxidised by copper(II) and hence greatly increased the rate of copper(II) reduction. The rate of copper(II) reduction by tetrathionate is relatively unaffected by the addition of anions; however, anion addition was found to significantly influence the rate of copper(II) reduction by sulfite and trithionate. Based on these results, inner sphere mechanisms were proposed for the reaction of copper(II) with thiosulfate, sulfite and trithionate. The kinetics of copper(II) reduction is thus very complex and can be represented by a number of parallel-series reaction sequences.
The topical toxicity of three isomeric mixtures of resmethrin (30:70, 22:78, and 11:89 [±] cis: trans isomers) to susceptible (S) and resmethrin-selected resistant ( R ) house flies, Musca domestica (L.), was determined. The mixture containing the greatest proportion of cis isomers (30%) was the most toxic to R flies (LC50 = 5.91 µg per fly) while that containing the lowest proportion of cis isomers (11%) was the least toxic (LC50 = 490 µg per fly). In the case of S flies, the LC50 and LC95 values for all three isomeric mixtures were not significantly different, indicating that the cis and trans isomers were equally toxic. This suggested that the R strain had developed a much higher degree of resistance to the trans isomers than to the cis . While both piperonyl butoxide (PB) and ( S,S,S -tributyl phosphorotrithionate (DEF) increased the toxicity of resmethrin (30:70 cis: trans isomers) to R flies, PB was a better synergist than was DEF, suggesting that oxidative metabolism contributed more to the resistance in the strain than did hydrolytic mechanisms synergized by DEF. However, there were other factors involved, because R flies were considerably more tolerant of resmethrin: PB combinations than were S flies.
The leaching and adsorption of gold in thiosulphate resin-solution (TRS) system requires reliable reaction mechanism and model to solve all the species in the TRS system in order to maximize gold thiosulphate complexes being adsorben on resins. This work proposed the development of simultaneous leaching and adsorption model for gold thiosulphate complexes in the TRS system. The model was solved using the multi-dimensional Newton-Raphson and Levenberg-Marquardt methods. It was validated against experimental data, and the result showed that the model-based result was in a very good agreement with the experiment data with correlation coefficient, R2 being 0.987. The results also clarified the effect of initial concentration of thiosulphate, sulphite and trithionate on the adsorption of gold thiosulphate complexes. The isotherm adsorption of gold thiosulphate complexes exponentially increased over time. The gold thiosulphate species on resin, R3Au(S2O3)2 increased with the increase in the initial thiosulphate concentration, but R3Au(S2O3)(SO3) and R5Au(S2O3)(SO3)2 had contradictory trends. Overall, minimizing trithionate on resin by limiting the initial suphite concentration in the TRS system, and controlling the initial thiosulphate concentration in the constraint can play important role to maximize the amount of desired species, R3Au(S2O3)2, R3Au(S2O3)(SO3) or R5Au(S2O3)(SO3)2.
The chemistry of the technetium-sulfur colloid produced by the reaction of sodium thiosulfate with acid was investigated. A commercial kit was duplicated, and analyses of elemental sulfur, bisulfite and residual thiosulfate were carried out. The colloidal dispersions were filtered through Nuclepore graded membranes, and the percentages of sulfur and of 99mTc in the various filtrates were determined. In all cases-with varying acid, thiosulfate and time of incubation-there was a rough agreement between the two percentages for particles 0.4 μm in diameter or more. However, for small particles (< 0.1 μm) there was virtually no sulfur, but there was an appreciable percentage of technetium. It was concluded that the technetium sulfide nuclei formed first, and that the supersaturated sulfur deposited in part on them and in part on its own nuclei. It was found that raising the pH of the preparation to weakly alkaline values and reheating the solution dissolved most of the deposited sulfur by the reaction with sulfite to form thiosulfate, leaving much smaller, virtually sulfur-free technetium sulfide particles. Such a preparation was found to be as efficient as the technetium-antimony sulfide colloid for lymphograms in dogs. ::: ::: Potassium trithionate, K2S3O6, used in place of sodium thiosulfate, produced small Tc-S colloid particles with less sulfur than the conventional thiosulfate-acid system.
Abstract Neisseria gonorrhoeae is unable to grow with sulfate but can use thiosulfate as sole source of sulfur. Thiosulfate sulfur transferase (TST) (rhodanese) activity was present in the cytoplasmic soluble fraction. In the same extract, thiosulfate reductase (TSR), trithionate reductase and tetrathionate reductase activities were also detected using hydrogen as electron donor in the presence of viologen dyes and hydrogenase from Desulfovibrio gigas . The significance of and the possible relationship between these different activities are discussed.
Thiobacillus ferrooxidans originally cultured on ferrous iron can adapt to grow on thiosulphate, tetrathionate, trithionate or sulphur in liquid media. In unneutralized cultures (initial pH 4–4.4) mean doubling times on thiosulphate were 8.5–13 h and on tetrathionate was about 10 h. In pH-controlled cultures, growth on thiosulphate commenced at pH values from pH 3.6–4.7, with no growth in media initially below pH 3.5 or above pH 4.8. On tetrathionate, growth commenced between pH 1.5–4.3, with no growth below pH 1.3 or above pH 4.4. Growth rate was maximal (μ = 0.043 h-1) on thiosulphate at pH 3.6 and on tetrathionate at pH 2.5 (μ = 0.05 h-1). Growth yields of about 5.9 g (210 mmoles CO2 fixed) and 9.8 g (350 mmoles CO2 fixed) dry wt per gram-molecule were obtained respectively on thiosulphate and tetrathionate. Bacteria grown on thiosulphate or tetrathionate could produce colonies on ferrous iron agar, but this ability declined on prolonged culture on sulphur compounds. All the cultures grown on various inorganic sulphur compounds were capable of re-adapting to growth on iron. This was investigated in detail. About 66–82% of iron-grown organisms readily produced colonies on tetrathionate, but only about 1 in 109 produced colonies on thiosulphate.
Unlike gold cyanidation, thiosulfate leaching involves relatively high concentrations of reagents, while the gold extraction is largely dependent on the presence or absence of various background reagents. The complexity of thiosulfate leaching of gold is exemplified in Figure 1 (14) . It shows that sulfite, sulfide, sulfate glycine and ethylenediaminetetracetic acid (EDTA) have beneficial effects on gold extraction, compared to standard thiosulfate leaching with 0.03 M copper sulfate, 0.3 M sodium thiosulfate and 3 M ammonia (pH 10.2) in the absence of these additives. The oxidation of thiosulfate by copper(II) and/or oxygen during leaching produces tetrathionate (S 4 O 6 2-), trithionate (S 3 O 6 2-) and sulfate as byproducts and increases thiosulfate consumption under some conditions. Reagents such as EDTA, sodium sulphide, and sodium sulfite lower the thiosulfate consumption (Fig. 1) . While a moderate ammonia concentration up to 4 M is beneficial, a higher concentration of ammonia is detrimental for gold leaching (4).
The compound obtained by treating bis(2,2′-bipyridyl)copper(II) chloride with potassium thiosulphate is shown to be a bis(2,2′-bipyridyl)trithionatocopper(II) complex; this is, to our knowledge, the only X-ray crystal structure of a trithionate complex to be determined.
Abstract Since many of the reactions involving thionic acids occur in acid media, it was felt that a qualitative study of the stability of these substance in various concentrations of hydrochloric acid was desirable. One of the main reactions in acid media is said to be: The effect of thiosulphate and formaldehyde (which removes bisulphite) was therefore observed. Results obtained agreed with the above equation and also showed that as the number of sulphur atoms in the thionates increases, the concentration of acid in which the thionate is stable increases. Experiments conducted to ascertain the primary thionate produced in the decompsition of acidified thiosulphate solution are described, this being trithionate; a possible mechanism is suggested for this reaction.
Grinding and flotation of sulphide (S2 2- ) ores containing pyrite (FeS2) and pyrrhotite (FeS) in alkaline conditions produces a series of partially oxidized sulphur oxyanions (SxOy 2- ) with the most common being thiosulphate (S2O3 2- ), trithionate (S3O6 2- ) and tetrathionate (S4O6 2- ), which are collectively called "Thiosalts". Oxidation of thiosalts continues in the solution pulp or effluent until the end product of sulphate (SO4 2- ) is reached. Since oxidation reactions also produce proton (H + ), thiosalts represent delayed acidity in effluents with the potential to cause a drop in pH within the treatment system and in the downstream environment. Thiosalts generation is site-specific and current processing technology has not been able to cost effectively prevent their production. As natural degradation in tailings ponds may not be sufficient to fully manage thiosalts oxidation, some sites may require implementation of additional measures due to the presence of site constraints or conditions such as short retention time and cold climate. Currently known best "thiosalts management" practices include: increasing retention time in tailings ponds; improving thiosalt oxidation rates through optimization of pond pH's prior to discharge; increasing alkalinity and/or buffering capacity in effluents; and treating water using chemical or biological oxidation or biological (sulphate) reduction processes. Some sites practice addition of excess buffering/alkalinity in the treated water as a cost-effective option to delay and compensate for the acid generation. However, results can be variable during different times of the year and development and use of alternative methods are required. Hydrogen peroxide as a chemical oxidation method is often chosen due to its low capital cost, high reactivity and non-toxic by-product generation. The Xstrata Copper Canada, Kidd Metallurgical Site in Timmins, Ontario has investigated possible options to manage thiosalts by conducting laboratory tests and modeling studies. The studies conducted and the management methods implemented for the site are discussed.
Trithionate potassium was synthesized by oxidation of hydrogen peroxide with thiosulfate.With the temperature of 4—10℃ and after the re-crystallizing with anhydrous ethanol,the product's yield and purity were 71.4% and 98.46% respectively.The structure of the product was confirmed by FTIR and CE,the concentration of trithionate potassium was tracked and detected at high pH by capillary electrophoresis.The results showed that the character of trithionate potassium was relatively stable,and decomposition rate is slower at pH13.As the pH increased,the decomposition rate of trithionate became faster.
Thiobacillus thioparus DSM 505T is one of first two isolated strains of inorganic sulfur-oxidising Bacteria. The original strain of T. thioparus was lost almost 100 years ago and the working type strain is Culture CT (=DSM 505T = ATCC 8158T) isolated by Starkey in 1934 from agricultural soil at Rutgers University, New Jersey, USA. It is an obligate chemolithoautotroph that conserves energy from the oxidation of reduced inorganic sulfur compounds using the Kelly-Trudinger pathway and uses it to fix carbon dioxide It is not capable of heterotrophic or mixotrophic growth. The strain has a genome size of 3,201,518 bp. Here we report the genome sequence, annotation and characteristics. The genome contains 3,135 protein coding and 62 RNA coding genes. Genes encoding the transaldolase variant of the Calvin-Benson-Bassham cycle were also identified and an operon encoding carboxysomes, along with Smith’s biosynthetic horseshoe in lieu of Krebs’ cycle sensu stricto. Terminal oxidases were identified, viz. cytochrome c oxidase (cbb3, EC 1.9.3.1) and ubiquinol oxidase (bd, EC 1.10.3.10). There is a partial sox operon of the Kelly-Friedrich pathway of inorganic sulfur-oxidation that contains soxXYZAB genes but lacking soxCDEF, there is also a lack of the DUF302 gene previously noted in the sox operon of other members of the ‘Proteobacteria’ that can use trithionate as an energy source. In spite of apparently not growing anaerobically with denitrification, the nar, nir, nor and nos operons encoding enzymes of denitrification are found in the T. thioparus genome, in the same arrangements as in the true denitrifier T. denitrificans.
In the case of pyrite bioleaching by Leptospirillum ferrooxidans, an organism without sulfur-oxidizing capacity, besides the production of tetra- and pentathionate, a considerable accumulation of elemental sulfur occurred. A similar result was obtained for chemical oxidation assays with acidic, sterile iron(III) ion-containing solutions. In the case of Thiobacillus ferrooxidans, only slight amounts of elemental sulfur were detectable because of the organism's capacity to oxidize sulfur compounds. In the course of oxidative, chemical pyrite degradation under alkaline conditions, the accumulation of tetrathionate, trithionate, and thiosulfate occurred. The data indicate that thiosulfate, trithionate, tetrathionate, and disulfane-monosulfonic acid are key intermediate sulfur compounds in oxidative pyrite degradation. A novel (cyclic) leaching mechanism is proposed which basically is indirect.
Process water and effluents from mining operations treating sulfide rich ores often contain considerable concentrations of metastable inorganic sulfur compounds such as thiosulfate and tetrathionate. These species may cause environmental problems if released to downstream recipients due to oxidation to sulfuric acid catalyzed by acidophilic microorganisms. Molecular phylogenic analysis of the tailings pond and recipient streams identified psychrotolerant and mesophilic inorganic sulfur compound oxidizing microorganisms. This suggested year round thiosalt oxidation occurs. Mining process waters may also contain inhibiting substances such as thiocyanate from cyanidation plants. However, toxicity experiments suggested their expected concentrations would not inhibit thiosalt oxidation by Acidithiobacillus ferrivorans SS3. A mixed culture from a permanently cold (4-6 °C) low pH environment was tested for thiosalt removal in a reactor design including a biogenerator and a main reactor containing a biofilm carrier. The biogenerator and main reactors were successively reduced in temperature to 5-6 °C when 43.8% of the chemical oxidation demand was removed. However, it was found that the oxidation of thiosulfate was not fully completed to sulfate since low residual concentrations of tetrathionate and trithionate were found in the discharge. This study has demonstrated the potential of using biotechnological solutions to remove inorganic sulfur compounds at 6°C and thus, reduce the impact of mining on the environment.
T is one of first two isolated strains of inorganic sulfur-oxidising Bacteria. The original strain of T. thioparus was lost almost 100 years ago and the working type strain is Culture C T (=DSM 505 T = ATCC 8158 T ) isolated by Starkey in 1934 from agricultural soil at Rutgers University, New Jersey, USA. It is an obligate chemolithoautotroph that conserves energy from the oxidation of reduced inorganic sulfur compounds using the Kelly-Trudinger pathway and uses it to fix carbon dioxide It is not capable of heterotrophic or mixotrophic growth. The strain has a genome size of 3,201,518 bp. Here we report the genome sequence, annotation and characteristics. The genome contains 3,135 protein coding and 62 RNA coding genes. Genes encoding the transaldolase variant of the Calvin-Benson-Bassham cycle were also identified and an operon encoding carboxysomes, along with Smith's biosynthetic horseshoe in lieu of Krebs' cycle sensu stricto. Terminal oxidases were identified, viz. cytochrome c oxidase (cbb3, EC 1.9.3.1) and ubiquinol oxidase (bd, EC 1.10.3.10). There is a partial sox operon of the Kelly-Friedrich pathway of inorganic sulfur-oxidation that contains soxXYZAB genes but lacking soxCDEF, there is also a lack of the DUF302 gene previously noted in the sox operon of other members of the 'Proteobacteria' that can use trithionate as an energy source. In spite of apparently not growing anaerobically with denitrification, the nar, nir, nor and nos operons encoding enzymes of denitrification are found in the T. thioparus genome, in the same arrangements as in the true denitrifier T. denitrificans.
In the case of pyrite bioleaching by Leptospirillum ferrooxidans, an organism without sulfur-oxidizing capacity, besides the production of tetra-and pentathionate, a considerable accumulation of elemental sulfur occurred. A similar result was obtained for chemical oxidation assays with acidic, sterile iron(III) ioncontaining solutions. In the case of Thiobacillus ferrooxidans, only slight amounts of elemental sulfur were detectable because of the organism's capacity to oxidize sulfur compounds. In the course of oxidative, chemical pyrite degradation under alkaline conditions, the accumulation of tetrathionate, trithionate, and thiosulfate occurred. The data indicate that thiosulfate, trithionate, tetrathionate, and disulfane-monosulfonic acid are key intermediate sulfur compounds in oxidative pyrite degradation. A novel (cyclic) leaching mechanism is proposed which basically is indirect.
The reactions of peri-substitution-stabilized phosphanylidene-phosphorane 1 with [AuCl(tht)] or [PtCl2(cod)] afford binuclear complexes [((1)(AuCl)2)2] 2 and [((1)(PtCl2))2] 3, in which four electrons of the ligand are used in bonding to two metal atoms in the bridging arrangement. Reactions of 1 with [Mo(CO)4(nbd)] or (RhCl2Cp*)2 afford mononuclear complexes [(1)2Mo(CO)4] 4 and [(1)RhCl2Cp*] 5, in which two electrons of the ligand are used to form terminal complexes. Formation of these complexes disrupts the negative hyperconjugation at the P–P bond to various extents, which is mirrored by variations in their P–P bond distances (2.179(4)–2.246(4) A). The P–P bond is ruptured upon formation of Pd diphosphene complex 6, which is likely to proceed through a phosphinidene intermediate. In air, 1 is fully oxidized to phosphonic acid 7. Reactions of 1 with chalcogens under mild conditions generally afford mixtures of products, from which the trithionated 8, dithionated 9, diselenated 10, and monotellurated 11 ...
Manometric experiments of tetrathionate oxidation were conducted with crude extracts of T. thiooxidans. Tetrathionate was first enzymatically dismutated to trithionate and pen-tathionate, and the tri- and pentathionate formed were further oxidized to elemental sulfur and sulfate, in which one mole of oxygen was required for the conversion of tetrathionate of two moles. α, α'-Dipyridyl, nitroso-R salt and orthophenanthroline at a concentration of 7.5×10-3M showed completely inhibitory effects for the enzymic dismutation. The dismutation was accelerated by either ferrous, nickel or cobalt ion, but was strongly inhibited by cupric ion.
In reaction with potassium butylxanthate and sodium tert-butyltrithionate, 2,5-dihydroxy-3,4,6,7-tetrachloro-2,3-dihydrobenzo[b]furan forms the products from nucleophilic substitution of a chlorine atom, i.e., O-butyl S-(2,5-dihydroxy-4,6,7-trichloro-2,3-dihydrobenzo[b]furan-3-yl) xanthate and S-tert-butyl S′-(2,5-dihydroxy-4,6,7-trichloro-2,3-dihydrobenzo[b]furan-3-yl) trithiocarbonate respectively. Recyclization of the xanthate in concentrated sulfuric acid gave 4-(2,5-dihydroxy-3,4,6-trichlorophenyl)-1,3-dithiol-2-one, which was oxidized by iron trichloride to the corresponding benzoquinone. Cyclization of the trithiocarbonate in the presence of trifluoroacetic and p-toluenesulfonic acid led to 7-hydroxy-5,6,8-trichloro-3a,8b-dithiolo[4,5-b]benzo[d]furan-2-thione.
Cells of the phototrophic bacterium Chromatium vinosum strain D were shown to contain a siroheme sulfite reductase after autotrophic growth in a sulfide/bicarbonate medium. The enzyme could not be detected in cells grown heterotrophically in a malate/sulfate medium. Siroheme sulfite reductase was isolated from autotrophic cells and obtained in an about 80% pure preparation which was used to investigate some molecular and catalytic properties of the enzyme. It was shown to consist of two different types of subunits with molecular weights of 37,000 and 42,000, most probably arranged in an α4β4-structure. The molecular weight of the native enzyme was determined to 280,000, 51 atoms of iron and 47 atoms of acid-labile sulfur were found per enzyme molecule. The absorption spectrum indicated siroheme as prosthetic group; it had maxima at 280 nm, 392 nm, 595 nm, and 724 nm. The molar extinction coefficients were determined as 302×103 cm2xmmol-1 at 392 nm, 98×103 cm2 xmmol-1 at 595 nm and 22×103 cm2x-mmol-1 at 724 nm. With reduced viologen dyes as electron donor the enzyme reduced sulfite to sulfide, thiosulfate, and trithionate. The turnover number with 59 (2 e-/enzyme moleculexmin) was low. The pH-optimum was at 6.0. C. vinosum sulfite reductase closely resembled the corresponding enzyme from Thiobacillus denitrificans and also desulfoviridin, the dismilatory sulfite reductase from Desulfovibrio species. It is proposed that C. vinosum catalyses anaerobic oxidation of sulfide and/or elemental sulfur to sulfite in the course of dissimilatory oxidation of reduced sulfur compounds to sulfate.
Oxygen uptake coupled with nitrite oxidation by washed cell suspensions was not influenced by persulfate or tetrathionate. Carbon dioxide fixation was insensitive to tetrathionate, and in fact, an enhancement by tetrathionate was observed. Persulfate inhibited the fixation of carbon dioxide only at a high concentration (17 mM S2O2−8). Cytochrome reduction in washed cells of Nitrobacter agilis was demonstrated in the presence and absence of sulfooxyanions. Cytochrome aa3 and cytochrome a1 (α-peak at 590 nm) were sensitive to sulfooxyanions (sulfite, thiosulfate, metabisulfite, dithionate, persulfate, trithionate, and tetrathionate), whereas cytochrome c (β-peak at 520 nm) was insensitive to test ions. All sulfooxyanions inhibited the reduction of cytochrome a1 (γ-peak at 438 nm). This inhibition decreased when the concentration of sulfooxyanions was increased to 17 mM. The reduction of cytochrome c at 550 nm (α-peak) was blocked by the test ions and the inhibition of cytochrome c at 415 nm (γ-peak) was also apparent. Complete inhibition of cytochrome c (γ-peak) was observed in the presence of 17 mM persulfate.
Desulfoviridin from Desulfovibrio vulgaris was separated into two forms by DEAE-Sephadex column chromatography. The major form had a pI of 4.4 and the minor form one of 4.5-4.6. Both forms produced mainly trithionate, besides thiosulfate and sulfide, in methylviologen-linked sulfite reduction. The specific activities of sulfite reduction, as well as of hydroxylamine reduction, were virtually identical in both forms. There were no great differences in their absorption spectra, CD spectra, molecular weights, subunit compositions, labile sulfide, and iron contents, and amino acid compositions. The N-terminal amino acid was alanine in both forms.
The reductase catalyzing the reduction of tetrathionate and thiosulphate in Proteus mirabilis is also concerned with the reduction of trithionate and the oxidation of sulphide. Tetrathionate is reduced to thiosulphate, thiosulphate to sulphite and sulphide, and trithionate is reduced to thiosulphate plus sulphite. The oxidation of sulphide in cell-free extracts proceeds most likely to polysulphanes or to elemental sulphur, depending on the conditions.
Cell-free extracts of Thiobacillus acidophilus catalysed the quantitative conversion of trithionate (S3O62−) to thiosulphate and sulphate. A continuous assay for quantification of experimental results was based on the difference in absorbance between trithionate and thiosulphate at 220 nm. ::: ::: ::: ::: Trithionate hydrolase was purified to near homogeneity from cell-free extracts of T. acidophilus. The molecular masses of the native enzyme and the subunit were 99 kDa (gel filtration) and 34 kDa (SDS/PAGE). The purified enzyme has a pH optimum of 3.5–4.5 and a temperature optimum of 70°C. Enzyme activity was stimulated by sulphate. The stimulation of the enzyme activity by sulphate was half maximal at a concentration of 0.23 M. The Km for trithionate is 70 μM at 30°C and 270 μM at 70°C. Enzyme activity was lost after 36 days at 0°C, 27 days at 70°C; but after 97 days at 30°C, 40% of the initial activity was still present. The enzyme activity was inhibited by mercury chloride, N-ethylmaleimide, thiosulphate and tetrathionate. Tetrathionate S4O62− was not hydrolysed by trithionate hydrolase.
A sampling protocol for the retention, extraction, and analysis of sulfoxyanions in hydrothermal waters has been developed in the laboratory and tested at Yellowstone National Park and Green Lake, NY. Initial laboratory testing of the anion-exchange resin Bio-Rad™ AG1-X8 indicated that the resin was well suited for the sampling, preservation, and extraction of sulfate and thiosulfate. Synthetic solutions containing sulfate and thiosulfate were passed through AG1-X8 resin columns and eluted with 1 and 3 M KCl, respectively. Recovery ranged from 89 to 100%. Comparison of results for water samples collected from five pools in Yellowstone National Park between on-site IC analysis (U.S. Geological Survey mobile lab) and IC analysis of resin-stored sample at SUNY-Stony Brook indicates 96 to 100% agreement for three pools (Cinder, Cistern, and an unnamed pool near Cistern) and 76 and 63% agreement for two pools (Sulfur Dust and Frying Pan). Attempts to extract polythionates from the AG1-X8 resin were made using HCl solutions, but were unsuccessful. Bio-Rad™ AG2-X8, an anion-exchange resin with weaker binding sites than the AG1-X8 resin, is better suited for polythionate extraction. Sulfate and thiosulfate extraction with this resin has been accomplished with KCl solutions of 0.1 and 0.5 M, respectively. Trithionate and tetrathionate can be extracted with 4 M KCl. Higher polythionates can be extracted with 9 M hydrochloric acid. Polythionate concentrations can then be determined directly using ion chromatographic methods, and laboratory results indicate recovery of up to 90% for synthetic polythionate solutions using AG2-X8 resin columns.
The reaction assigned to SoxB in the Sox pathway model is the hydrolysis of a sulfur-sulfur bond. This is an unusual enzymatic reaction that has only otherwise been suggested for enzymes designated as trithionate or tetrathionate hydrolases (15) (16) (17) (18) . The thiosulfohydrolase activity proposed for SoxB has yet to be directly Firstly, in vitro pathway reconstitution experiments show that SoxB catalyzes a non-oxidative reaction (7). Secondly, SoxB has sequence similarity to the 5'-nucleotidase family of enzymes (19). Since 5'-nucleotidases catalyze the hydrolytic cleavage of phosphate groups from nucleotides this sequence similarity suggests that SoxB also carries out a hydrolytic reaction.
A sampling protocol for the retention, extraction, and analysis of sulfoxyanions in hydrothermal waters has been developed in the laboratory and tested at Yellowstone National Park and Green Lake, NY. Initial laboratory testing of the anion-exchange resin Bio-Rad 2 AG1-X8 indicated that the resin was well suited for the sampling, preservation, and extraction of sulfate and thiosulfate. Synthetic solutions containing sulfate and thiosulfate were passed through AG1-X8 resin columns and eluted with 1 and 3 M KCl, respectively. Recovery ranged from 89 to 100%. Comparison of results for water samples collected from five pools in Yellowstone National Park between on-site IC analysis (U.S. Geological Survey mobile lab) and IC analysis of resin-stored sample at SUNY-Stony Brook indicates 96 to 100% agreement for three pools (Cinder, Cistern, and an unnamed pool near Cistern) and 76 and 63% agreement for two pools (Sulfur Dust and Frying Pan). Attempts to extract polythionates from the AG1-X8 resin were made using HCl solutions, but were unsuccessful. Bio-Rad 2 AG2-X8, an anion-exchange resin with weaker binding sites than the AG1-X8 resin, is better suited for polythionate extraction. Sulfate and thiosulfate extraction with this resin has been accomplished with KCl solutions of 0.1 and 0.5 M, respectively. Trithionate and tetrathionate can be extracted with 4 M KCl. Higher polythionates can be extracted with 9 M hydrochloric acid. Polythionate concentrations can then be determined directly using ion chromatographic methods, and laboratory results indicate recovery of up to 90% for synthetic polythionate solutions using AG2-X8 resin columns.
Publisher Summary This chapter describes purification and assay for trithionate and thiosulfate reductases from Desulfovibrio vulgaris (Hildenborough) (DvH) NCIMB 8303. Trithionate and thiosulfate are both implicated as intermediates during the respiratory sulfate reduction process occurring in dissimilatory sulfate-reducing bacteria (SRB). The most convenient method for assaying thiosulfate-forming enzyme (TF) under anaerobic conditions is by using manometry. Because the electrons for reducing bisulfite or trithionate to thiosulfate are derived from molecular hydrogen, the stoichiometry of the reaction may be determined. All purification steps are carried out at 0-4. The enzyme is stable to repeated lyophilization or freezing or thawing. The enzyme solution is colorless, and a single protein band is observed after polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE). The assay for thiosulfate reduction can be accomplished by spectrophotometric methods or by manometry. The assay measures the production of sulfide from thiosulfate during the purification of thiosulfate reductase from D. vulgaris . The optimum pH for activity is 8.0–9.0 and the molecular weight, by sedimentation equilibrium studies, is 16,300, and by amino-acid analysis is 15,500.
Abstract Inorganic binary compounds of copper selenide, CuxSey, films are formed on polyamide (PA) by a sorption—diffusion method using potassium selenotrithionate, K2SeS2O6, as a seleniumization agent. The selenides Cu0.5Se orthorhombic, Cu1.5Se tetragonal and Cu2.0Se orthorhombic were matched on the polymer surface after treating the seleniumizated PA films with a solution of Cu(I-II) salts. Depending on the seleniumization conditions (concentration 0.03—0.3 mol dm-3, pH 2.15, 3.0 of aqueous K2SeS2O6 solutions, 60 °C) CuxSey layers on PA of different electrical resistance (0.065–416 kΩ/3) were obtained.
Publisher Summary This chapter focuses on low-spin sulfite reductases, which are isolated from Desulfovibrio vulgaris (Hildenborough) (DvH), Methanosarcina barkeri ( Ms. Barkeri ), and Desulforomonas acetoxidans ( Drm. Acetoxidans ). Sulfite reductase catalyzes the six-electron reduction of SO 3 2- to S 2- .This enzyme contains an iron tetrahydroporphyrin prosthetic group, termed “siroheme,” in addition to nonheme iron. On the basis of physiological function, two types of sulfite reductases can be defined (1) the assimilatory type, which is involved in the synthesis of sulfur-containing compounds, and (2) the dissimilatory one, which participates in the respiratory pathway for sulfate-reducing bacteria (SRB). Under certain assay conditions of dissimilatory sulfite reductases, in addition to sulfide, trithionate and thiosulfate are irreversibly produced. All purification procedures of sulfite reductases are carried out at 4 and all buffers are adjusted to pH 7.6. The purified enzyme is stable for six months in 0.05 M Tris-HCl buffer at –80. The purified sulfite reductase has a molecular mass of 27.2 kDa, determined by amino-acid composition. The iron content is consistent with the existence of a single [4Fe-4S] cluster and a siroheme.
Complementary electrochemical and spectroscopic techniques were used to characterize the behavior and composition of the passive layer formed at the gold surface in a thiosulfate electrolyte in the presence of cupric ions. Raman studies of three different cationic (calcium, ammonium, and sodium) thiosulfate leaching solutions revealed that the concentrations of thiosulfate, trithionate, sulfate, and tetrathionate remained constant in the bulk solution over a 3-h time period. The initial leaching current densities of these three systems were identical; however, significant differences in the open circuit potentials of these systems were observed. To provide additional information about the nature of the passive layer, gold nanorod array electrodes were fabricated and employed as substrates for studying the species present at the gold–thiosulfate interface using surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS). The composition and behavior of the passive layer at the gold–thiosulfate interface greatly differed from those of the bulk solutions. The passive layer consisted primarily of elemental sulfur and sulfide-like species, with thiosulfate and its oxidation products, such as tri- and tetrathionates, as minority components. The nature of the cation (calcium, sodium, or ammonium) of the thiosulfate salt showed no significant effect on the composition of the passive layer at leaching times longer than 100 min. In addition, the presence of cupric ions also had no significant effect on the formation of the passive layer. However, copper is a much better oxidant than oxygen in gold–thiosulfate leaching reactions.
The decomposition of tetrasulfur tetranitride in an aqueous ammonia solution has been investigated. Ammonolysis of tetrasulfur tetranitride gives thiosulfate, sulfite, sulfate and sulfamate through the intermediate compound of trithionate. An increase in the concentration of ammonia raises the yield of sulfamate and lowers that of sulfate, but gives no remarkable change in the yield of thiosulfate. Besides this, in a concentration of ammonia higher than 15 N at 100°C an explosive reaction takes place. Addition of copper ion improves the yield of sulfamate, and the sulfite ion reacts with tetrasulfur tetranitride in an ammonia aqueous solution to form sulfate and sulfamate ion quantitatively.
Task 1. Methods development for the speciation of the polysulfides. Work on this task has been completed in December 1983 and reported accordingly in DOE/PC/40783-T13. Task 2. Methods development for the speciation of dithionite and polythionates. Work is in progress on the polarography of the polythionates. Results will be presented in a forthcoming Quarterly Report. Task 3. Total accounting of the sulfur balance in representative samples of synfuel process streams. Two aqueous samples emanating from different stages of the Lummus Process were analyzed. As expected, total sulfur content was low, viz., 0.006 M and 0.001 M. Concentrations of sulfidic sulfur, polysulfidic sulfur, thiosulfate, sulfite, trithionate, tetrathionate, and pentathionate were less than 0.001 M each. 5 references, 3 tables.
Abstract Spoil material composed of pyrite, coal and rock was ground and inoculated with spoil microflora and monitored for pH, SO2-4, reduced S compounds, total soluble Fe and Fe(II). A 7-day lag in production of both SO2-4, and total soluble Fe was observed followed by a marked increase in concentration. Concentrations or SO2-4, total soluble Fe and Fe(II) after 28 days were ca 81, 91, and 59 mmol kg−1 spoil, respectively. Reduced S anions including thiosulfate. trithionate and tetrathionate were detected in the spoil at all samplings during a 28-day incubation. Final trithionate concentrations were greatest (1.07 mmol kg−1 spoil). Scanning electron microscope observations of the pyrite revealed a gradual pitting and erosion of particle faces after prolonged incubation. Certain faces appeared to have been preferentially weathered.
Hydrodynamic flows can exert multiple effects on an exothermal autocatalytic reaction, such as buoyancy and the Marangoni convection, which can change the structure and velocity of chemical waves. Here we report that in the chlorite-trithionate reaction, the production and consumption of chlorine dioxide can induce and inhibit Marangoni flow, respectively, leading to different chemo-hydrodynamic patterns. The horizontal propagation of a reaction-diffusion-convection front was investigated with the upper surface open to the air. The Marangoni convection, induced by gaseous chlorine dioxide on the surface, produced from chlorite disproportionation after the proton autocatalysis, has the same effect as the heat convection. When the Marangoni effect is removed by the reaction of chlorine dioxide with the Congo red (CR) indicator, an oscillatory propagation of the front tip is observed under suitable conditions. Replacing CR with bromophenol blue (BPB) distinctly enhanced the floating, resulting in multiple vortexes, owing to the coexistence between BPB and chlorine dioxide. Using the incompressible Navier-Stokes equations coupled with reaction-diffusion and heat conduction equations, we numerically obtain various experimental scenarios of front instability for the exothermic autocatalytic reaction coupled with buoyancy-driven convection and Marangoni convection.
Abstract An enzyme which catalyzes the reduction of bisulfite to sulfide and thiosulfate was purified from extracts of the sulfate-reducing bacterium, Desulfovibrio vulgaris . Trithionate was not a product of this reaction nor was it or thiosulfate reduced by the enzyme. High substrate concentrations inhibited sulfide but not thiosulfate formation. The enzyme was named bisulfite reductase II to distinguish it from bisulfite reductase which reduces bisulfite to trithionate.
The loading of gold using strong base anion exchange resin in non-ammoniac resin-solution (NARS) systems has been studied. The loading of gold onto ion exchange resins is affected by polythionate concentration, and trithionate can be used as the baseline in the system. The results also show that resin capacity on gold loading increases due to the increase in the equilibrium thiosulfate concentration in the NARS system. Gold loading performances show the need of optimization the equilibrium concentrations of thiosulfate in the NARS system. Keywords: equilibrium, gold loading, resin capacity, thiosulfate, trithionate
The process and results of the formation of thin Cu x se layers on the polyamide 6 (PA) surface are described. For clarifying the influence of various factors (the concentration of the initial solution of potassium selenotrithionate, K 2 SeS 2 O 6 , pH, seleniumization time and temperature) the kinetics of the sorption-diffusion of selenium into PA from freshly prepared solutions of potassium selenotrithionate was studied. The Cu x Se layers of various composition are formed on the surface ofpolyamide film if the seleniumized polymer is treated with the aqueous solution of Cu(II/I) salt. The concentration of copper in Cu x Se layers formed is strongly dependent on the initial conditions of seleniumization. Some structural properties and electrical resistance values of obtained layers have been also investigated. The three phases CuSe 2 , Cu 2 Se copper selenides and Cu 2x Se berzellianite -in the Cu x Se layers were identified. The Cu x Se layers formed on PA have electrical sheet resistance in the range of 49.8 to 2.5.10 5 Q/D.
We present coupled sulfur and oxygen isotope data from sulfur nodules and surrounding gypsum, as well as iron and manganese concentration data, from the Lisan Formation near the Dead Sea (Israel). The sulfur isotope composition in the nodules ranges between -9 and -11‰, 27 to 29‰ lighter than the surrounding gypsum, while the oxygen isotope composition of the gypsum is constant around 24‰. The constant sulfur isotope composition of the nodule is consistent with formation in an 'open system'. Iron concentrations in the gypsum increase toward the nodule, while manganese concentrations decrease, suggesting a redox boundary at the nodule-gypsum interface during aqueous phase diagenesis. We propose that sulfur nodules in the Lisan Formation are generated through bacterial sulfate reduction, which terminates at elemental sulfur. We speculate that the sulfate-saturated pore fluids, coupled with the low availability of an electron donor, terminates the trithionate pathway before the final two-electron reduction, producing thionites, which then disproportionate to form abundant elemental sulfur.
Bisulfite was reduced to sulfide by cell extracts of Desulfotomaculum nigrificans. When trithionate was added to reaction mixtures reducing bisulfite, sulfide formation was inhibited with accumulation of thiosulfate. The thiosulfate reductase activity of cell extracts was found to be inhibited by trithionate. Trithionate alone was reduced to thiosulfate and purified bisulfite reductase (P582) was not affected by trithionate. It is concluded that the pathway for bisulfite reduction in Dt. nigrificans includes trithionate and thiosulfate as intermediate compounds.
We present coupled sulfur and oxygen isotope data from sulfur nodules and surrounding gypsum, as well as iron and manganese concentration data, from the Lisan Formation near the Dead Sea (Israel). The sulfur isotope composition in the nodules ranges between -9 and -11‰, 27 to 29‰ lighter than the surrounding gypsum, while the oxygen isotope composition of the gypsum is constant around 24‰. The constant sulfur isotope composition of the nodule is consistent with formation in an 'open system'. Iron concentrations in the gypsum increase toward the nodule, while manganese concentrations decrease, suggesting a redox boundary at the nodule-gypsum interface during aqueous phase diagenesis. We propose that sulfur nodules in the Lisan Formation are generated through bacterial sulfate reduction, which terminates at elemental sulfur. We speculate that the sulfate-saturated pore fluids, coupled with the low availability of an electron donor, terminates the trithionate pathway before the final two-electron reduction, producing thionites, which then disproportionate to form abundant elemental sulfur.
The stoicheiometry and kinetics of reaction of aqueous-ammonia (0·1–1.0M) solutions of copper(II) ions with thiosulphate ion in the presence of oxygen have been examined. The amount of oxygen consumption and the relative amounts of the final sulphur products, namely trithionate and sulphate ions, are dependent on the initial [S2O3]2– concentration and pH. The detailed kinetics of the reaction at pH 11·2 suggest mechanisms in which O2 becomes axially associated with amminethiosulphatocopper(II) species. In this role O2 assists in electron transfer between [S2O3]2– and CuII. The most active species for [S3O6]2– formation is a tetra-amminecopper(II) complex having one axial [S2O3]2– and one axial O2 ligand. A triamminecopper(II) complex, having both axial and equatorial [S2O3]2– ligands as well as an axial O2, is suggested as the reactive intermediate for [SO4]2–formation. The role of the intermediate CuII species is one of complexing both oxidant and reductant.,in that it provides a mechanism for electron transfer and allows O2 to interact via an ionic mechanism.
Abstract Lanthanide tri- and tetrathionate containing species have been prepared in solution by the reaction of potassium tri- and tetrathionate with lanthanide perchlorates. Unstable solid materials from these reactions have been examined by infrared spectroscopy and electrospray mass spectrometry (ESI MS). There was evidence of the formation of S3O62− and S4O62− coordination to lanthanide ions, but it was not possible to produce material suitable for single crystal X-ray studies. The reaction of ethanol solutions from Ln(ClO4)3/K2SnO6 (n = 3,4) with triphenylphosphine oxide yielded crystalline materials which have been characterised by infrared spectroscopy, electrospray mass spectrometry, elemental analysis and single crystal X-ray diffraction. The trithionate complexes [Ln(S3O6)(Ph3PO)4]ClO4·3H2O (Ln = Nd, Tb) have been isolated. The tetrathionate/Ph3PO reaction gave rise to significant disproportionation giving a small quantity of [Nd(S4O6)(Ph3PO)4(H2O)]ClO4, a different isomer of [Nd(S3O6)(Ph3PO)4H2O]ClO4, neodymium sulfate and elemental sulfur. The crystal structures of the two isomers of [Nd(S3O6)(Ph3PO)4H2O]ClO4 and that of [Nd(S4O6)(Ph3PO)4H2O]ClO4 are reported. The structure of [Er(H2O)5(Ph3PO)2].5Ph3PO.3[ClO4], formed during the attempted preparation of erbium trithionate complexes, is also described.
In situ leaching of uranium by aqueous ammonium carbonate containing oxygen or hydrogen peroxide as oxidant results in the partial dissolution of sulfides. While some of the sulfide sulfur is oxidized to sulfate, a considerable portion is oxidized only to thiosulfate and polythionates. Polythionates poison the ion exchange resin used to extract uranium. At the Palangana operation in south Texas, the trithionate ion (S3O62−) was found by infrared spectrometry to be the major resin poison. Treatment of ion exchange feed solutions with hydrogen peroxide only resulted in partial conversion of reduced sulfur species to sulfate. Trithionate conversion was particularly slow. Poisoning of the resin also occurred from the ammonium chloride eluant, which built up trithionate because of recycling. This was essentially eliminated by chlorinating the eluant before yellow cake precipitation.
At ambient temperature, interaction of the solid radical anion salt [Na(15-crown-5)][C2N4S2] with water vapour unexpectedly leads to the trithionate salt [Na(15-crown-5)]2[S(SO3)2], whose coordination pattern is very different from the previously studied trithionate salts.
Abstract ::: An enzyme that formed thiosulfate from bisulfite and trithionate was purified from extracts of Desulfovibrio vulgaris. This enzyme, designated as "thiosulfate-forming" enzyme, required the presence of both bisulfite and trithionate. Various 35S-labeling studies showed that thiosulfate was formed from bisulfite and the inner sulfur atom of trithionate. This involved a nucleophilic attack by the bisulfite ion, resulting in the displacement of the two outer sulfonate groups of trithionate that recycled to participate as free bisulfite in subsequent reactions. This reaction required a reduction, presumably by a concerted mechanism with thiosulfate formation. The natural electron carrier cytochrome c3 participated in this reductive formation of thiosulfate. This reaction was coupled to the bisulfite reductase-catalyzed reaction, which resulted in the reconstruction of a thiosulfate-forming pathway from bisulfite.
We describe a new Thiobacillus species which is a gram-negative, motile, rod-shaped organism having polar flagella. The optimum growth temperature is 43 to 45°C, and the optimum pH range is 6.0 to 7.5. This organism is obligately chemolithotrophic and autotrophic and has ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase activity. It is able to oxidize thiosulfate, trithionate, tetrathionate, hexathionate, heptathionate, sulfur, and sulfide, but is not able to use sulfite, thiocyanate, or dithionate for growth. In batch culture it converts thiosulfate to tetrathionate during or before growth. It has both rhodanese and thiosulfate-oxidizing enzyme activites. It does not grow anaerobically with nitrate or nitrous oxide on either thiosulfate or tetrathionate. The guanine-plus-cytosine content of its deoxyribonucleic acid is 66.6 mol%, and it contains ubiquinone Q-8 in its respiratory chain. The organism is named Thiobacillus tepidarius sp. nov. The type strain is strain DSM 3134, which has been deposited in the Deutsche Sammlung von Mikroorganismen, Gottingen, Federal Republic of Germany.
Trithionate oxidation by intact cells of Thiobacillus X was sparked by the addition of thiosulphate and proceeded rapidly only with dense bacterial suspensions in air. A gas phase of 100% oxygen inhibited trithionate oxidation. Anaerobically trithionate was metabolized by Thiobacillus X to sulphate and thiosulphate according to the equation
We describe a new Thiobacillus species which is a gram-negative, motile, rod-shaped organism having polar flagella. The optimum growth temperature is 43 to 45"C, and the optimum pH range is 6.0 to 7.5. This organism is obligately chemolithotrophic and autotrophic and has ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase activity. It is able to oxidize thiosulfate, trithionate, tetrathionate, hexathionate, heptathionate, sulfur, and sulfide, but is not able to use sulfite, thiocyanate, or dithionate for growth. In batch culture it converts thiosulfate to tetrathionate during or before growth. It has both rhodanese and thiosulfate-oxidizing enzyme activites. It does not grow anaerobically with nitrate or nitrous oxide on either thiosulfate or tetrathionate. The guanine-pluscytosine content of its deoxyribonucleic acid is 66.6 mol%, and it contains ubiquinone Q-S in its respiratory chain. The organism is named Thiobacillus tepidarius sp. nov. The type strain is strain DSM 3134, which has been deposited in the Deutsche Sammlung von Mikroorganismen, Gottingen, Federal Republic of Germany.
A vital process in the biogeochemical sulfur cycle is the dissimilatory sulfate reduction pathway in which sulfate (SO₄⁻²) is converted to hydrogen sulfide (H₂S). Dissimilatory sulfite reductase (dSir), its key enzyme, hosts a unique siroheme-[4Fe-4S] cofactor and catalyzes the six-electron reduction of sulfite (SO₃²⁻) to H₂S. To explore this reaction, we determined the X-ray structures of dSir from the archaeon Archaeoglobus fulgidus in complex with sulfite, sulfide (S²⁻) carbon monoxide (CO), cyanide (CN⁻), nitrite (NO₂⁻), nitrate (NO₃⁻), and phosphate (PO₄³⁻). Activity measurements indicated that dSir of A. fulgidus reduces, besides sulfite and nitrite, thiosulfate (S₂O₃²⁻) and trithionate (S₃O₆²⁻) and produces the latter two compounds besides sulfide. On this basis, a three-step mechanism was proposed, each step consisting of a two-electron transfer, a two-proton uptake, and a dehydration event. In comparison, the related active site structures of the assimilatory sulfite reductase (aSir)- and dSir-SO₃²⁻complexes reveal different conformations of Argα170 and Lysα211 both interacting with the sulfite oxygens (its sulfur atom coordinates the siroheme iron), a sulfite rotation of ~60° relative to each other, and different access of solvent molecules to the sulfite oxygens from the active site cleft. Therefore, solely in dSir a further sulfite molecule can be placed in van der Waals contact with the siroheme-ligated sulfite or sulfur-oxygen intermediates necessary for forming thiosulfate and trithionate. Although reported for dSir from several sulfate-reducing bacteria, the in vivo relevance of their formation is questionable.
Thiosalts are sulphur compounds generated in the processing of sulphide ores, which concentrate in the mining wastewater. The most common thiosalt species are thiosulphate, trithionate, and tetrathionate. While thiosalts are not typically toxic, thiosalts can decompose resulting in pH depression. ::: Current industry practice of periodic checking of the water quality downstream, to assess aquatic risk clearly points to the lack of a comprehensive risk based approach in managing thiosalts. Assessing the aquatic risk to organisms requires predicting thiosalt natural degradation in pond/stream conditions and toxicity data of thiosalt species. ::: Due to the complex reaction pathways and pH dependence of the various thiosalt degradation reactions, assessing the risk to the environment is challenging. A novel methodology is developed for an aquatic community ‘No Observed Effect Concentration’ (NOEC) based on the limited toxicity data that is available for thiosalts. To analyze the indirect effect of thiosalts on pH, a new exposure model is developed to estimate the residual concentration of thiosalts and pH in the water body. The developed exposure assessment model is based on the understanding of the relationship between acid producing (oxidation) and acid consuming (disproportionation) pathways of thiosalts and their reaction kinetics. The results from this model are incorporated into the thiosalts risk assessment and a case study is used to illustrate the model. In this study, the exposure model predicts that trithionate and tetrathionate will degrade to sulphate ions, hydrogen sulphite ions, sulphite ions and elemental sulfur. The concentration of thiosulfate, trithionate and tetrathionate, initially at 25 mg/L, 40 mg/L and 6 mg/L respectively, decreased over the course of the study. Over the duration of 77 hours, thiosulfate degraded completely, while the estimated residual trithionate and tetrathionate concentrations were 13 mg/L and 5.77 mg/L, respectively. The pH of the undiluted effluent was estimated to decrease from pH 9.2 to pH 5.6 within an hour of the effluent discharge and decreased further to pH 4 over a period of the next 3 days. A framework and methodology developed in this thesis can be utilized to estimate the potential direct and indirect risks of thiosalts exposure to ecological entities.
Starting from the thiopiperidines, long unbranched sulphur chains containing 3 to 8 sulphur atoms were built making use of sulphite and thiosulphate in acetic acid medium. The Probable mode of formation of these chains as the polythionic acids $H_2S_nO_6$ is discussed. When the products of reaction between a solution of sulphur in piperidine and sulphite in presence of acetic acid were analysed, thiosulphate was found to be the major product of reaction with a small amount of polythionates associated with it. Trithionate and hydrogen sulphide were present in negligible amounts. A tentative mechanism for the reaction has been proposed.
The trithionate-chlorine dioxide reaction has been studied spectrophotometrically in a slightly acidic medium at 25.0 ± 0.1 °C in acetate/acetic acid buffer monitoring the decay of chlorine dioxide at constant ionic strength (I = 0.5 M) adjusted by sodium perchlorate. We found that under our experimental conditions two limiting stoichiometries exist and the pH, the concentration of the reactants, and even the concentration of chloride ion affects the actual stoichiometry of the reaction that can be augmented by an appropriate linear combination of these limiting processes. It is also shown that although the formal kinetic order of trithionate is strictly one that of chlorine dioxide varies between 1 and 2, depending on the actual chlorine dioxide excess and the pH. Moreover, the otherwise sluggish chloride ion, which is also a product of the reaction, slightly accelerates the initial rate of chlorine dioxide consumption and may therefore act as an autocatalyst. In addition to that, overshoot-undershoot behavior is also observed in the [(·)ClO(2)]-time curves in the presence of chloride ion at chlorine dioxide excess. On the basis of the experiments, a 13-step kinetic model with 6 fitted kinetic parameter is proposed by nonlinear parameter estimation.
SUMMARY: The enzyme oxidizing thiosulphate to tetrathionate (‘tetrathionate synthase’) has been purified: the native enzyme has a M ::: r of 138000 and subunit M ::: r of 45000, contains no haem and shows K ::: m values for thiosulphate of 4 and 110 μM respectively with cytochrome c or ferricyanide as electron acceptor. Most of the enzyme was recovered from the periplasm of the cell. Evidence is also presented for a trithionate hydrolyase, catalysing the hydrolytic cleavage of trithionate to thiosulphate and sulphate. This activity was partially purified and assayed in a coupled system in which cytochrome c reduction by the purified tetrathionate synthase was measured. Tetrathionate oxidation by cell-free preparations could not be obtained, but a sulphite dehydrogenase (with ferricyanide as electron acceptor) was demonstrated and sulphite-dependent reduction of cytochrome c in T. tepidarius membrane preparations occurred. The latter was inhibited by HQNO (2-heptyl-4-hydroxyquinoline-N-oxide), indicating the involvement of cytochrome b. Sulphite oxidation by APS reductase (adenylylsulphate reductase) could not be detected, which was consistent with the earlier demonstration of complete inhibition of ATP synthesis in intact organisms by FCCP (carbonyl cyanide p-trifluoromethoxyphenyl-hydrazone). A scheme is presented which is consistent with all the whole organism and enzyme data available to date.
The enzyme oxidizing thiosulphate to tetrathionate ('tetrathionate synthase') has been purified : the native enzyme has a M , of 138 000 and subunit M , of 45 000, contains no haem and shows K, values for thiosulphate of 4 and 1 1 0~~ respectively with cytochrome c or ferricyanide as electron acceptor. Most of the enzyme was recovered from the periplasm of the cell. Evidence is also presented for a trithionate hydrolyase, catalysing the hydrolytic cleavage of trithionate to thiosulphate and sulphate. This activity was partially purified and assayed in a coupled system in which cytochrome c reduction by the purified tetrathionate synthase was measured. Tetrathionate oxidation by cell-free preparations could not be obtained, but a sulphite dehydrogenase (with ferricyanide as electron acceptor) was demonstrated and sulphitedependent reduction of cytochrome c in T . tepidarius membrane preparations occurred. The latter was inhibited by HQNO (2-heptyl-4-hydroxyquinoline-N-oxide), indicating the involvement of cytochrome b. Sulphite oxidation by APS reductase (adenylylsulphate reductase) could not be detected, which was consistent with the earlier demonstration of complete inhibition of ATP synthesis in intact organisms by FCCP (carbonyl cyanide p-trifluoromethoxyphenylhydrazone). A scheme is presented which is consistent with all the whole organism and enzyme data available to date.
In the previous paper (Lu & Kelly, 1988) we demonstrated that the oxidation of thiosulphate by Thiobaciffus tepidarius appeared to involve the formation of tetrathionate as an intermediate. The probable location of the tetrathionate-forming enzyme was in the periplasm of the cells, the tetrathionate thus formed being subsequently transported across the cytoplasmic membrane prior to its complete oxidation to sulphate. The sensitivity of tetrathionate and sulphite oxidation to FCCP and HQNO suggested that both were metabolized on the cytoplasmic side of the membrane, and that their oxidation involved electron transport from cytochrome b to cytochrome c. The intermediate sensitivity of trithionate oxidation to inhibitors, relative to thiosulphate and tetrathionate, and the sulphate-related loss of trithionate-oxidizing activity from washed bacteria, suggested that trithionate might also undergo initial metabolism in the periplasm, possibly involving thiosulphate and tetrathionate as oxidation intermediates. We have now sought to identify enzymic functions in extracts of T. tepidarius that could confirm the observations made with intact organisms.
Cell-free extracts of Thiobacillus ferrooxidans grown with thiosulfate as energy source and prepared at high ammonium sulfate concentrations and at low pH are capable of polythionate hydrolysis. The enzyme responsible for the hydrolysis of tetrathionate (S4O2- ::: 6) and pentathionate (S4O2- ::: 6) was purified to homogeneity. Enzyme activity during the purification procedure was based on a continuous spectrophotometric method that detects soluble intermediates that absorb in the UV region. The end products of hydrolysis of both polythionates by the pure enzyme were thiosulfate, sulfur and sulfate. The purified enzyme has a pH optimum of around 4 and a temperature optimum of 65 °. The activity is strongly influenced by the presence of sulfate ions. The purified enzyme is a dimer with two identical subunits of molecular mass 52 kDa. During purification of tetrathionate hydrolase, fractions able to hydrolyse trithionate and tetrathionate were separated, indicating that the two substrates are hydrolysed by different enzymes.
Abstract The downward transition from aerobic to anaerobic conditions in a harbor mud is not simply a function of the biological consumption of oxygen. It is also controlled by the amount of soluble iron (Fe2+) and microbially‐generated hydrogen sulfide available to coprecipitate as acid‐soluble sulfide (FeS). In this way both the chemistry and the microbiology of these sediments govern the iron and sulfur speciation as well as the depth of the aerobic zone. Measurements of H2S, FeS, tetrathionate, trithionate, thiosulfate, and Eh confirm that only the measurement of dissolved oxygen can be used as a reliable index of the aerobic to anaerobic transition.
Cell-free extracts of Thiobacilhs hrrooxidans grown with thiosulfate as energy source and prepared at high ammonium sulfate concentrations and at low pH are capable of polythionate hydrolysis. The enzyme responsible for the hydrolysis of tetrathionate (S,Oi') and pentathionate (5,Oi') was purified to homogeneity. Enzyme activity during the purification procedure was based on a continuous spectrophotometric method that detects soluble intermediates that absorb in the UV region. The end products of hydrolysis of both polythionates by the pure enzyme were thiosulfate, sulfur and sulfate. The purified enzyme has a pH optimum of around 4 and a temperature optimum of 65 OC. The activity is strongly influenced by the presence of sulfate ions. The purified enzyme is a dimer with two identical subunits of molecular mass 52 kDa. During purification of tetrathionate hydrolase, fractions able to hydrolyse trithionate and tetrathionate were separated, indicating that the two substrates are hydrolysed by different enzymes.
Sulfate Transport: H.Cypionka, Sulfate Transport. Dissimilatory Sulfate Reduction: A. Dehydrogenases: Hydrogenases from Sulfate-Reducing Bacteria: T.A. Hansen and C.M.H. Hensgens, NAD-Dependent Alcohol Dehydrogenase from Desulfovibrio gigas. T.A. Hansen, NAD(P)-Independent Lactate Dehydrogenase from Sulfate-Reducing Prokaryotes. J.J.G. Moura and B.A.S. Barata, Aldehyde Oxidoreductases and Other Molybdenum-Containing Enzymes. R. Cammack, V.M.F. Lopez, and E.C. Hatchikian, Nickel-Iron Hydrogenase. D.S. Patil, Nickel-Iron-Selenium Hydrogenase. L.L. Barton, The Pyruvic Acid Phosphoroclastic Reaction. B. Electron Carrier Proteins from Sulfate-Reducing Bacteria: T. Yagi, Monoheme Cytochromes. I.B. Coutinho and A.V. Xavier, Tetraheme Cytochromes. M. Bruschi, Cytochrome c3 (Mr 26,000) Isolated from Sulfate-Reducing Bacteria and Its Relationships to Other Polyhemic Cytochromes from Desulfovibrio. Y. Higuchi, T. Yagi, and G. Voordouw, Hexadecaheme Cytochrome c. J.J.G. Moura, A.L. Macedo, and P.N. Palma, Ferredoxins. J. Vervoort, D. Heering, S. Peelen, and W. van Berkel, Flavodoxins. L.C. Sieker, R.E. Stenkamp, and J.LeGall, Rubredoxin in the Crystalline State. I. Moura, P. Tavares, and N. Ravi, Characterization of Three Proteins Containing Multiple Iron Sites: Rubrerythrin, Desulfoferrodoxin and a Protein Containing a Six-Iron Cluster. C. Terminal Reductases of Sulfate-Reducing Bacteria: J. Lampreia, A.S. Pereira, and J.J.G. Moura, Adenylylsulfate Reductases from Sulfate-Reducing Bacteria. J.M. Akagi, H.L. Drake, J.-H. Kim, and D. Gevertz, Thiosulfate and Trithionate Reductases. D.V. DerVartanian, Desulforubidin: Dissimilatory, High-Spin Sulfite Reductase of Desulfomicrobium Species. E.C. Hatchikian, Desulfofuscidin: Dissimilatory, High-Spin Sulfite Reductase of Thermophilic, Sulfate-Reducing Bacteria. I. Moura and A.R. Lino, Low-Spin Sulfite Reductases. M.-C. Liu, C. Costa, and I. Moura, Hexaheme Nitrite-Reductase from Desulfovibrio desulfuricans (ATCC 27774). D. Molecular Biology: W.M.A.M. van Dongen, J.P.W.G Stokkermans, and W.A.M. van der Berg, Genetic Manipulation of Desulfovibrio. C. Dahl, N. Speich, and H.G. Traper, Enzymology and Molecular Biology of Sulfate Reduction in the Extremely Thermophilic Archeon Archaeoglobus fulgidus. Dissimilatory Sulfur Reduction: G.D. Fauque, Sulfur Reductase from Thiophilic Sulfate-Reducing Bacteria. G.D. Fauque, O. Klimmek, and A. Kriger, Sulfur Reductases from Spirilloid Mesophilic Sulfur-Reducing Eubacteria. Oxidation of Reduced Sulfur Compounds: J.W. Ingledew and D.H. Boxer, Purification of Rusticyanin, a Blue Copper Protein from Thiobacillus ferrooxidans. B.F. Taylor, Adenylylsulfate Reductases from Thiobacilli. C. Dahl and H.G. Traper, Enzymes of Dissimilatory Sulfide Oxidation in Phototrophic Sulfur Bacteria. H.G. Traper, Reverse Siroheme Sulfite Reductase from Thiobacillus denitrificans. T.E. Meyer, Purification and Properties of Cytochrome c-555 from Phototrophic Green Sulfur Bacteria. T.E. Meyer, Purification and Properties of High-Potential Iron-Sulfur Proteins. I. Suzuki, Sulfite: Cytochrome c Oxidoreductase of Thiobacilli. I. Suzuki, Sulfur-Oxidizing Enzymes. T. Yamanaka, Sulfide-Cytochrome c Reductase (Flavocytochrome c). Metabolism of Polythionates: D.P. Kelly and A.P. Wood, Synthesis and Determination of Thiosulfate and Polythionates. D.P. Kelly and A.P. Wood, Enzymes Involved in the Microbiological Oxidation of Thiosulfate and Polythionates. D.P. Kelly and A.P. Wood, Whole-Organism Methods for Inorganic Sulfur Oxidation by Chemolithotrophs and Photolithotrophs. Special Techniques: B.H. Huynh, Missbauer Spectroscopy in Study of Cytochrome cd1 from Thiobacillus denitrificans, Desulfoviridin, and Iron Hydrogenase. H. Santos, P. Fareleira, J. LeGall, and A.V. Xavier, In Vivo Nuclear Magnetic Resonance in Study of Physiology of Sulfate-Reducing Bacteria. J.E. Wampler, Computational Chemistry and Molecular Modeling of Electron-Transfer Proteins. J.M. Odom and R.C. Ebersole, Immunoassay of Sulfate-Reducing Bacteria in Environmental Samples. Author Index. Subject Index.
The isolation of a novel obligately chemolithotrophic, halophilic and extremely halotolerant Thiobacillus from a hypersaline lake is described. Attempts to demonstrate sulphur- and ferrous iron-oxidizing chemolithotrophs in neighbouring hypersaline lakes were unsuccessful. The organism isolated differs from any other Thiobacillus species previously described and is formally named as Thiobacillus halophilus. It possesses ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase and grows chemolithoautotrophically on thiosulphate, tetrathionate and sulphur, oxidising them to sulphate. Kinetic constants for oxidation of sulphide, thiosulphate, trithionate and tetrathionate are presented. The organism is obligately halophilic, growing best with 0.8–1.0 M NaCl, and tolerating up to 4 M NaCl. Optimum growth was obtained at about 30° C and pH 7.0–7.3. It contains ubiquinone Q-8 and its DNA contains 45 mol % G+C. Organisms of this type might contribute significantly to the autotrophic fixation of carbon dioxide in some hypersaline extreme environments of the kind described.
Concurrent ferrous ion and tetrathionate utilisation by Sulfobacillus acidophilus, Sb. thermosulfidooxidans, Sb. thermotolerans, and Sb. sibiricus grown separately in batch culture in dual-substrate media containing ferrous ion and tetrathionate was investigated. For all species, tetrathionate-adapted cells oxidised both substrates concurrently, achieving at least 20% oxidation of the second substrate before the first substrate was exhausted. Sequential substrate utilisation was observed for iron(II)-adapted cells for three of the four species and all iron(II)-adapted cell lines commenced oxidation of ferrous ions ahead of tetrathionate. Adaptation to iron(II) or tetrathionate of the test species had little impact on subsequent ferrous ion oxidation. However, tetrathionate oxidation was affected by growth history. Compared with their respective tetrathionate-adapted cell lines, cells adapted to iron(II) exhibited either significantly longer lag times and/or longer periods to complete tetrathionate oxidation once it had commenced. Polythionate intermediates measured during tetrathionate oxidation to sulfate included thiosulfate, pentathionate and hexathionate for the four species. The intermediate trithionate was only detected in Sb. thermotolerans cultures.
When incubated under anaerobic conditions, five strains of Thiobacillus ferrooxidans tested produced hydrogen sulfide (H2S) from elemental sulfur at pH 1.5. However, among the strains, T. ferrooxidans NASF-1 and AP19-3 were able to use both elemental sulfur and tetrathionate as electron acceptors for H2S production at pH 1.5. The mechanism of H2S production from tetrathionate was studied with intact cells of strain NASF-1. Strain NASF-1 was unable to use dithionate, trithionate, or pentathionate as an electron acceptor. After 12 h of incubation under anaerobic conditions at 30 degrees C, 1.3 micromol of tetrathionate in the reaction mixture was decomposed, and 0.78 micromol of H2S and 0.6 micromol of trithionate were produced. Thiosulfate and sulfite were not detected in the reaction mixture. From these results, we propose that H2S is produced at pH 1.5 from tetrathionate by T. ferrooxidans NASF-1, via the following two-step reaction, in which AH2 represents an unknown electron donor in NASF-1 cells. Namely, tetrathionate is decomposed by tetrathionate-decomposing enzyme to give trithionate and elemental sulfur (S4O6(2-)-->S3O6(2-) + S(o), Eq. 1), and the elemental sulfur thus produced is reduced by sulfur reductase using electrons from AH2 to give H2S (S(o) + AH2-->H2S + A, Eq. 2). The optimum pH and temperature for H2S production from tetrathionate under argon gas were 1.5 and 30 degrees C, respectively. Under argon gas, the H2S production from tetrathionate stopped after 1 d of incubation, producing a total of 2.5 micromol of H2S/5 mg protein. In contrast, under H2 conditions, H2S production continued for 6 d, producing a total of 10.0 micromol of H2S/5 mg protein. These results suggest that electrons from H2 were used to reduce elemental sulfur produced as an intermediate to give H2S. Potassium cyanide at 0.5 mM slightly inhibited H2S production from tetrathionate, but increased that from elemental sulfur 3-fold. 2,4-Dinitrophenol at 0.05 mM, carbonylcyanide-m-chlorophenyl- hydrazone at 0.01 mM, mercury chloride at 0.05 mM, and sodium selenate at 1.0 mM almost completely inhibited H2S production from tetrathionate, but not from elemental sulfur.
SUMMARY: Several thiobacilli and Thermothrix thiopara were grown in chemostat culture with inorganic sulphur compounds as growth-limiting energy substrates for autotrophic growth. Thiobacillus neapolitanus, Thiobacillus thiooxidans and Thiobacillus acidophilus were all able to use thiosulphate, trithionate or tetrathionate as sole energy substrates, as was Thx. thiopara grown at 72 °C. “True growth yields” (Y ::: max) were estimated for the organisms and showed yields of T. neapolitanus to be the same on trithionate and thiosulphate, thereby suggesting that only oxidative, and not substrate-level, phosphorylation is involved in energy conservation in this organism. The yield data suggested that substrate-level phosphorylation could, however, be significant in T. acidophilus. Thiobacillus versutus only grew with thiosulphate, with which it gave yield values similar to those of T. neapolitanus and T. thiooxidans. Thx. thiopara exhibited maximum specific growth rates on thiosulphate, trithionate and tetrathionate of 0·55, 0·23-0·25 and <0·06 h−1 respectively. Its yields on all three were much greater than those of the thiobacilli: the Y ::: max on thiosulphate was in the range 18·0-22·8 g mol−1, but the organisms contained only about 29% carbon and 48% protein. These values do, however, make Thx. thiopara the highest-yielding inorganic-sulphur-oxidizing chemolithoautotroph yet described.
Bisulfite reductase (desulfoviridin) and an assimilatory sulfite reductase have been purified from extracts of Desulfovibrio vulgaris . The bisulfite reductase has absorption maxima at 628, 580, 408, 390, and 279 nm, and a molecular weight of 226,000 by sedimentation equilibrium, and was judged to be free of other proteins by disk electrophoresis and ultracentrifugation. On gels, purified bisulfite reductase exhibited two green bands which coincided with activity and protein. The enzyme appears to be a tetramer but was shown to have two different types of subunits having molecular weights of 42,000 and 50,000. The chromophore did not form an alkaline ferrohemochromogen, was not reduced with dithionite or borohydride, and did not form a spectrally visible complex with CO. The assimilatory sulfite reductase has absorption maxima at 590, 545, 405 and 275 nm and a molecular weight of 26,800, and appears to consist of a single polypeptide chain as it is not dissociated into subunits by sodium dodecyl sulfate. By disk electrophoresis, purified sulfite reductase exhibited a single greenish-brown band which coincided with activity and protein. The sole product of the reduction was sulfide, and the chromophore was reduced by borohydride in the presence of sulfite. Carbon monoxide reacted with the reduced chromophore but it did not form a typical pyridine ferrohemochromogen. Thiosulfate, trithionate, and tetrathionate were not reduced by either enzyme preparation. In the presence of 8 M urea, the spectrum of bisulfite reductase resembles that of the sulfite reductase, thus suggesting a chemical relationship between the two chromophores. Images
Several thiobacilli and Thermothrix thiopara were grown in chemostat culture with inorganic sulphur compounds as growth-limiting energy substrates for autotrophic growth. Thiobacillus neapolitanus, Thiobacillus thiooxidans and Thiobacillus acidophilus were all able to use thiosulphate, trithionate or tetrathionate as sole energy substrates, as was Thx. thiopara grown at 72 "C. 'True growth yields' (Y,,,) were estimated for the organisms and showed yields of T . neapolitanus to be the same on trithionate and thiosulphate, thereby suggesting that only oxidative, and not substrate-level, phosphorylation is involved in energy conservation in this organism. The yield data suggested that substrate-level phosphorylation could, however, be significant in T. acidophilus. Thiobacillus versutus only grew with thiosulphate, with which it gave yield values similar to those of T . neapolitanus and T. thiooxidans. Thx. thiopara exhibited maximum specific growth rates on thiosulphate, trithionate and tetrathionate of 0.55,0.23-0.25 and <0-06 h-I respectively. Its yields on all three were much greater than those of the thiobacilli: the Y,,, on thiosulphate was in the range 18-0-22.8 g mol-I, but the organisms contained only about 29% carbon and 48% protein. These values do, however, make Thx. thiopara the highest-yielding inorganic-sulphur-oxidizing chemolithoautotroph yet described.
A concurrent thermodynamic and kinetic analysis was conducted to show that the reaction between copper(II) and thiosulfate ions takes place through the formation of an unsatable copper complex followed by its first or second order decomposition. The rate of thiosulfate oxidation by oxygen during gold leaching from copper gold ores in alkaline media was of the order ≈10 -6moll-1s-1. The presence of carbonate enhanced the overall thiosulfate consumption and trithionate and sulfate formation, leading to a lower gold extraction. The results show that in a thiosulfate deficient leach liquor gold precipitation takes place through disproportionation reactions.
1) The oxidation of sulfur with compressed oxygen proceeds through the following sequence of steps: (a) The disproportionation of sulfur to both pentasulfide and thiosulfate. (b) The oxidation of pentasulfide to thiosulfate. (c) The oxidation of thiosulfate to sulfate and sulfamate through a series of complicated intermediates. 2) Sulfamate forms only in the decomposition of trithionate. 3) The over-all reaction of the oxidation is prompted by a rise in the temperature, an increase in the ammonia concentration, and the addition of transition metal ions, especially-copper ions.
SUMMARY: A newly isolated strain (c) of Thiobacillus thioparus is described. The organism oxidizes thiosulphate, sulphide, tetrathionate or trithionate to sulphate; carbon dioxide fixation is coupled to the oxidation of each of these compounds. Concentrations of arsenate, 2,4-dinitrophenol, and other inhibitors of oxidative phosphorylation, inhibit carbon dioxide fixation without appreciably affecting oxygen uptake. Carbon dioxide fixation coupled to sulphide oxidation is more sensitive to arsenate and 2,4-dinitrophenol inhibition than that coupled to thiosulphate oxidation. This result is consistent with the suggestion that thiosulphate oxidation is linked to a substrate phosphorylation which is relatively insensitive to inhibition by 2,4-dinitrophenol and arsenate.
An enzyme which catalyzes the reductive formation of trithionate from sulfite is present in extracts of the sulfate reducing bacterium Desulfovibrio gigas and has been termed, bisulfite reductase. This activity has been purified and the enzyme identified as the green pigment, desulfoviridin, by gel electrophoresis and ultracentrifugation. The stoichiometry of the reduction of sulfite to trithionate is established and some physical properties of the enzyme reported.
Abstract ::: Bisulfite reductase was purified from extracts of Desulfovibrio vulgaris. By colorimetric analyses trithionate was found to be the major product, being formed in quantities 5 to 10 times more than two other detectable products, thiosulfate and sulfide. When [35S]bisulfite was used as the substrate, all three products were radioactively labeled. Degradation of [35S]trithionate showed that all of its sulfur atoms were equally labeled. In contrast, [35S]thiosulfate contained virtually all of the radioactivity in the sulfonate atom while the sulfane atom was unlabeled. These results, in conjunction with the funding that the sulfide was radioactive, led to the conclusion that bisulfite reductase reduced bisulfite to trithionate as the major product and sulfide as the minor product; the reason for the unusual labeling pattern found in the thiosulfate molecule was not apparent at this time. When bisulfite reductase was incubated with [35S]bisulfite in the presence of another protein fraction, FII, the thiosulfate formed from this reaction contained both sulfur atoms having equal radioactivity. This discovery, plus the fact that trithionate was not reduced to thiosulfate under identical conditions, led to the speculation that bisulfite could be reduced to thiosulfate by another pathway not involving trithionate.
Desulfoviridin from D. gigas was partially purified by column chromatography and further purified by gel electrophoresis into a major band preparation and a minor band preparation. All partially purified and electrophoretically purified preparations catalysed the methylviologen-linked reduction of sulphite to sulphide, but stoichiometric reduction to sulphide was not demonstrated with the major band preparation. Desulfoviridin did not catalyse the reduction of thiosulphate or trithionate.
Mechanisms of resistance in ACP populations to insecticides were both metabolic and altered target site; therefore synergist probes such as piperonyl butoxide, S, S, S, -tri-n-butyl phosphorotrithionate, triphenyl phosphate and formamidine could be used successfully to design a resistance management strategy for the Asian citrus psyllid.
Desulfoviridin from D. gigas was partially purified by column chromatography and further purified by gel electrophoresis into a major band preparation and a minor band preparation. All partially purified and electrophoretically purified preparations catalysed the methylviologen-linked reduction of sulphite to sulphide, but stoichiometric reduction to sulphide was not demonstrated with the major band preparation. Desulfoviridin did not catalyse the reduction of thiosulphate or trithionate.
Desulfoviridin is a green pigment characteristic of Desulfovibrio species (Postgate 1956) . Suh and Akagi (1969) showed that this pigment from D. vulgaris catalysed the reduction of sulphite to thiosulphate, while Lee and Peck (1971) found that purified desulfoviridin from D. gigas catalysed the reduction of sulphite to trithionate. However, Skyring and Trudinger (1972) showed by disc electrophoresis that the site of reduction of sulphite to sulphide in crude extracts of D. gigas was coincident with desulfoviridin and that the desulfoviridin had no thiosulphate reductase activity. In these latter experiments it was not certain that the reduction of sulphite to sulphide was catalysed by desulfoviridin or by other proteins with similar electrophoretic properties.
In this paper it is shown that partially purified and electrophoretically purified preparations of desulfoviridin from D. gigas catalyse the reduction of sulphite, at least partially to sulphide. On completion of this work Kobayashi et al. (1972) reported that a purified desulfoviridin preparation from D. vulgaris also catalysed the reduction of sulphite to sulphide, but with trithionate and thiosulphate as major and minor products.
Publisher Summary This chapter focuses on desulfofuscidin, which is a dissimilatory high-spin sulfite reductase. Desulfofuscidin catalyzes the reduction of sulfite mainly to trithionate with concomitant formation of thiosulfate and sulfide under assay conditions. It is present only in the extreme thermophilic sulfate reducers of the genus Thermodesulfobacterium. Bisulfite reductase activity can be determined manometrically as hydrogen uptake in a system containing hydrogenase, bisulfate reductase, methyl viologen (MV), and sulfite. This assay requires saturating concentration of reduced methyl viologen, which is achieved under the assay conditions by using a large excess of hydrogenase as compared to bisulfite reductase. The reduced dye then serves as the electron donor for the bisulfite reductase as well as other reductases present in the extracts. The rate of hydrogen consumption is proportional to the amount of bisulfite reductase added to the reaction mixture when enzyme activity is calculated from the initial rate of hydrogen utilization. Specific activity is expressed as units per milligram of protein.
The gene encoding Desulfovibrio gigas flavoredoxin was deleted to elucidate its physiological role in the sulfate metabolism. Disruption of flr gene strongly inhibited the reduction of thiosulfate and exhibited a reduced growth in the presence of sulfite with lactate as electron donor. The growth with sulfate was not however affected by the lack of this protein. Additionally, flr mutant cells revealed a decrease of about 50% in the H2 consumption rate using thiosulfate as electron acceptor. Altogether, our results show in vivo that during sulfite respiration, trithionate and thiosulfate are produced and that flavoredoxin is specific for thiosulfate reduction.
SUMMARY: Whole organisms of Thiobacillus tepidarius oxidize thiosulphate to sulphate with the obligatory formation of tetrathionate as an intermediate. Oxidation of thiosulphate to tetrathionate shows an apparent K ::: m of about 120 μM and is relatively insensitive to FCCP (carbonyl cyanide p-trifluoromethoxyphenylhydrazone), HQNO (2-heptyl-4-hydroxyquinoline-N-oxide) or thiocyanate. Oxidation of tetrathionate to sulphate shows a K ::: m of about 27 μM and is strongly inhibited by FCCP, HQNO, thiocyanate and gramicidin. Sulphite oxidation is also inhibited by FCCP and HQNO. Trithionate oxidation to sulphate occurred and showed unexplained dependence on the presence of sulphate ions. A H+/O quotient of about 4 for proton translocation driven by substrate oxidation was seen for each of thiosulphate, tetrathionate and sulphite. ATP synthesis coupled to thiosulphate oxidation was completely abolished by FCCP. The results obtained are consistent with the oxidation of thiosulphate (and probably trithionate) to tetrathionate in the periplasm of the cell, with HQNO-insensitive electron transport to cytochrome c, and with further oxidation of tetrathionate (and sulphite) to sulphate after FCCP-sensitive transport to the cytoplasmic side of the membrane. The latter oxidations involve HQNO-sensitive electron transport via cytochrome b. Inhibition of tetrathionate metabolism by thiocyanate and gramicidin would be consistent with tetrathionate transport by a S4O-/4H+ symport process. The proton translocation experiments indicate the mechanism of H+ extrusion to depend on electron transfer within the quinone/cytochromes bc segment of the respiratory chain, and does not involve a proton-pumping oxidase. The sulphur-compound-oxidizing system of T. tepidarius is shown to be quite different from that previously described for T. versutus.
SUMMARY: The investigation of the metabolism of thiocyanate by pure cultures of Thiobacillus thiocyanoxidans was complicated by the fact that thiocyanate serves both as source of energy and as source of carbon and nitrogen. It was, therefore, difficult to separate oxidation from carbon dioxide fixation. The equation which best represented the resultant of these two processes was: ::: 2KCNS + 5H2O + 3O2 = K2SO4 + (NH4)2SO4 + CO2 + (CH2O). ::: Thiocyanate was first hydrolysed to cyanate and sulphide. Cyanate was further hydrolysed to carbon dioxide and ammonia and sulphide was oxidized to sulphate. ::: The oxidation of sulphide approximated to the equation: ::: Na2S + 2O2 = Na2SO4. Gas uptakes were lower than would be expected from this equation, although special precautions were taken to prevent loss of sulphide. ::: Thiosulphate was oxidized to sulphate according to the equation: ::: Na2S2O3 + H2O + 2O2 = Na2SO4 + H2SO4. ::: Fixation of carbon dioxide after the oxidation of thiosulphate was shown, but the efficiency of energy utilization appeared lower than during the oxidation of thiocyanate. ::: Thioacetamide and thioacetic acid were oxidized to sulphate but this was believed to be preceded by a chemical breakdown to sulphide. Sulphite, metabisulphite, dithionite, dithionate, tetrathionate, trithionate, thiourea and cysteine were tested; no evidence was obtained of their utilization.
Copper(II) ions in aqueous ammonia solution oxidize thiosulphate ions initially to tetrathionate ions; the latter then undergo a subsequent disproportionation reaction to yield trithionate and thiosulphate ions. The detailed kinetics of the reaction suggest a mechanism which involves substitution of thiosulphate ion into the co-ordination sphere of a triamminecopper(II) complex in the rate-determining step. A one-equivalent electron transfer from the thiosulphate to the copper(II) ion, occurring in the intermediate triamminecopper(II)–thiosulphate complex, gives rise to copper(I) and S2O3– ions, the latter dimerizing to tetrathionate ions.
Cadmium selenide (CdSe)-based layers were formed on the surface of polyamide 6 (PA) substrate film by treating PA film samples with potassium selenotrithionate (K2SeS2O6) solution (seleniumization) and then with cadmium(II) acetate, Cd(CH3COO)2, solution (cadmiumization). The morphology of CdSe-based layers was investigated by atomic force and scanning electron microscopies. It was determined that the formation of CdSe-based layers proceeds unevenly in the form of islands, which later tends to agglomerate. Therefore the surface of the layers formed is relatively uneven and rather rough. After seleniumization and cadmiumization procedures the average height of this layer have tendency to decrease from 337 after 1 h of seleniumization to 153 nm at 2.5 and 3.5 h of seleniumization. It was also determined that the RMS of formed layers slightly increases (from 32 to 42 nm) with the prolongation of PA seleniumization (from 1 to 2.5 hours) and it decreases (from 43 to 22 nm) with the increase of the temperature (from 50 °C to 70 °C) of seleniumized PA treatment by the solution containing Cd(II) salt. XPS data show that in coatings, substantial amounts of both cadmium hydroxide (Cd(OH)2) and cadmium oxide (CdO) are formed on the surface and within deeper layers of formed coatings. It was also determined that only a small fraction (∼0.1%-2%) of cadmium selenide is present on the surface of formed coating after seleniumization and cadmiumization, while within in the deeper layers the concentrations of both Cd and Se were much higher and the fractions of Cd(OH)2 and CdO decreased.
Thioacetamide and thioacetic acid were oxidized to sulphate but this was believed to be preceded by a chemical breakdown to sulphide. Sulphite, metabisulphite, dithionite, dithionate, tetrathionate, trithionate, thiourea and cysteine were tested ; no evidence was obtained of their utilization. was to examine further the metabolism of thiocyanate by pure cultures. Experiments with growing cultures were described by Happold et al. (1954) ; the present account is of experiments made with washed suspensions of organisms from pure cultures.
Understanding the behaviour of thiosalts is important in acid mine drainage study as thiosalt oxidation results in pH depression. This research focuses on a study of thiosalt kinetics under acidic, neutral and basic conditions in the temperature range typical of receiving ponds. The thiosalt studies performed in this research included a HSC equilibrium study, a study of freeze-thaw stability, and a thiosalt kinetic reactions study. -- The purpose of the HSC equilibrium study was to identify the major factors involved in thiosalt behaviour and to use this data to aid in later experimental design. The study of thiosalt equilibrium composition was performed using HSC Chemistry software and these results were statistically analysed by Design-Expert software. According to the analysis, the formation of thiosulphate depends upon its initial concentration, temperature, and pH. The formation of polythionate is also influenced by temperature, pH, and initial polythionate concentrations. Though these results were not unexpected, it was not anticipated that under equilibrium conditions the behaviour of thiosulphate and polythionate would be relatively independent of each other. -- As the freeze-thaw cycle has been shown to influence thiosalt speciation, a stability study was conducted to determine the stability of thiosalt species at different pHs. The thiosalts were found to be reasonably stable using a fast-freeze approach, where at pH 2, 4, and 7, most thiosalt concentrations changed within the range of ±6% after fast freezing in liquid nitrogen, storage in a freezer, and thawing in a water bath at 20°C just prior to analysis. -- Kinetic experiments were designed and conducted with the purpose of investigating thiosalt reaction kinetics under acidic, neutral, and basic conditions at variable temperatures. According to the results of this study, thiosulphate decomposed to trithionate, sulphate, and tetrathionate at pH 2. At pH 2 and 9, trithionate decomposed to sulphate, thiosulphate and tetrathionate only at 30°C; while at pH 4 and 7, trithionate decomposed to sulphate, thiosulphate and tetrathionate at temperatures of 15°C or greater. At pH 9, tetrathionate decomposed to thiosulphate, trithionate, and sulphate. In a mixture of thiosalt, thiosulphate and trithionate reacted as in the single species experiments, but tetrathionate was more reactive. Generally, the relative rates of decomposition of thiosulphate, trithionate, and tetrathionate were second or higher order. The decomposition rates increased with increasing initial thiosalt concentration and temperature (except for thiosulphate decomposition at pH 9 and 30°C).
Thiobacillus tepidarius, isolated from the hot springs at Bath, Avon, UK, grew optimally at 43–45°C and pH 6.0–7.5 on thiosulphate or tetrathionate. In batch culture, thiosulphate was oxidized stoichiometrically to tetrathionate, with a rise in pH. The tetrathionate was then oxidized to sulphate, supporting growth and producing a fall in pH to a minimum of ph 4.8. The organism contained high levels of thiosulphate-oxidizing enzyme, rhodanese and ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase. It was obligately chemolithotrophic and autotrophic. In chemostat culture, T. tepidarius grew autotrophically with the following sole energy-substrates: sulphide, thiosulphate, trithionate, tetrathionate, hexathionate or heptathionate. Thiocyanate, dithionate and sulphite were not used as sole substrates, although sulphite enhanced growth yields in the presence of thiosulphate. Maximum specific growth rate on tetrathionate was 0.44 h-1. ‘True growth yields’ (Y max) and maintenance coefficients (m) were calculated for sulphide, thiosulphate, trithionate and tetrathionate and observed yields at a single fixed dilution rate compared with those on hexathionate and heptathionate. Mean values for Y max, determined from measurements of absorbance, dry wt, total organic carbon and cell protein, were similar for sulphide, thiosulphate and trithionate (10.9 g dry wt/mol substrate) as expected from their equivalent oxygen consumption for oxidation. Y max for tetrathionate (20.5) and the relative Y o values (as g dry wt/g atom oxygen consumed) for thiosulphate and all four polythionates indicated that substrate level phosphorylation did not contribute significantly to energy conservation. These Y max values were 40–70% higher than any of those previously reported for obligately aerobic thiobacilli. Mean values for m were 6.7 mmol substrate oxidized/g dry wt·h for sulphide, thiosulphate and trithionate, and 2.6 for tetrathionate.
The kinetics of the reactions of tetrathionate with S(IV) species and with thiosulfate in slightly acidic and neutral media were studied concurrently at 25.0 ± 0.1 °C by simultaneous high-performance liquid chromatography monitoring of the concentrations of polythionates (including trithionate, tetrathionate, and pentathionate), thiosulfate, and sulfite. The tetrathionate-sulfite and tetrathionate-thiosulfate reactions were found to be first-order with respect to both reactants. The tetrathionate-sulfite reaction was found to be pH-dependent under the conditions studied. In contrast, the tetrathionate-thiosulfate reaction was experimentally demonstrated to be pH-independent at neutral medium, where the pKa2 value of sulfurous acid plays a key role, whereas under slightly acidic conditions, between pH 4 and 5 the consumption of tetrathionate during the course of reaction was found to become pH-dependent. We show that the pH dependencies in both systems can be readily explained by the reactivity difference between sulfite and bisulfite toward the β-sulfur of the tetrathionate. A simple two-step kinetic model incorporating the protonation equilibrium of sulfite is proposed on the basis of the simultaneous evaluation of the kinetic curves of the two systems, which allowed us to determine reliable rate coefficients for both the forward and backward reactions. Furthermore, the powerful ability of simultaneously evaluating the two chemical systems to yield reliable rate coefficients of the kinetic model is demonstrated.
The effect of pyrite on gold dissolution was investigated in the ammoniacal thiosulphate leaching system using pure gold foils. Special emphasis was placed on gold leaching in association with pyrite dissolution, thiosulphate decomposition and gold leaching passivation. The presence of pyrite retarded gold dissolution and this detrimental effect became more pronounced at higher pyrite contents. Pyrite catalysed the decomposition of thiosulphate to trithionate. The addition of sulphate enhanced gold leaching by retarding the dissolution of pyrite in ammoniacal thiosulphate solutions. XPS analysis indicated the presence of iron hydroxide species at the gold surfaces in the presence of pyrite, which was likely responsible for the reduced gold dissolution. SEM analysis indicated a lesser extent of gold dissolution occurring in the presence of pyrite.
SUMMARY: Mixed cultures of bacteria grown in spent gas liquor readily oxidized phenol, o-, m- and p-cresol, catechol, 3-methyl catechol, 4-methyl catechol, resorcinol, 2-methyl resorcinol, and 4-methyl resorcinol. Quinol, pyrogallol and phloroglucinol were more resistant. The optimum temperature was 30° and the best pH range 6·5–7·8. Yeast extract and sterile sewage sludge both increased the rate of growth of organisms in liquor when the inoculum was small. Five phenol oxidizing organisms were isolated in pure culture. Copper in concentrations greater than 1 p/m inhibited both growth and phenol oxidation by one of these. ::: ::: ::: ::: Mixed cultures grown in an ammonium thiocyanate medium originally inoculated with Thiobacillus thiocyanoxidans oxidized potassium thiocyanate and sodium thiosulphate. Chloride inhibited thiocyanate oxidation in concentrations above 5,000 p/m, although adaptation to 15,000 p/m was possible. Phenol inhibited thiocyanate oxidation in concentrations of 300 p/m or more. Mixed cultures grown on sodium thiosulphate oxidized sodium trithionate and tetrathionate, potassium pentathionate and hexa-thionate, and potassium and ammonium thiocyanate ::: ::: ::: ::: Manometric determinations of the 5 day biological oxygen demand of effluents after treatment showed good agreement with the values obtained by the conventional method, the manometric values being usually somewhat higher.
Abstract A sensitive ion chromatographic method has been developed for the determination of mixtures of thiosulfate, thiocyanate and polythionates (tri-, tetra-, penta- and hexathionate). The proposed method is based on the separation of the sulfur anions on an octadecylsilica (ODS) column with an acetonitrile–water mobile phase containing tetrapropylammonium salt (TPA) as an ion-pairing reagent and the ultraviolet absorption detection of the sulfur anions. When an acetonitrile–water (20:80, v/v) solution (pH 5.0) containing 6 m M TPA was used as a mobile phase at flow-rate of 0.6 ml min −1 , the sulfur anions were resolved within 22 min. The detection limits defined at S/N =3 and 230 nm were very low for all anions, except trithionate: 30 n M for thiosulfate, 60 n M for thiocyanate, 20 n M for tetrathionate, 15 n M for pentathionate and 18 n M for hexathionate. The proposed method gave recoveries ranging from 95.0 to 105.0% when applied to the determination of polythionates added to hot spring waters.
The oxidation kinetics of trithionate (S3O 6 2- ) and tetrathionate (S4O 6 2- ) with hydroxyl radicals (OH*) have been investigated in systems analogous to acid mine drainage (AMD) environments. The discovery of hydroxyl radical (OH*) formation on pyrite surfaces (Borda et al., 2003) suggests hydroxyl radicals may affect the oxidation kinetics of intermediate sulfur species such as tetrathionate. Cyclic voltammetry experiments in acidic solutions indicate that the reaction of S4O 6 2- with OH* goes through an unknown intermediate, tentatively assigned as S3O 4 n- . An outer-sphere electron transfer mechanism for the reaction of S4O 6 2- with OH* to form S3O 4 n- is proposed based on experimental results. Oxidation rates for trithionate and tetrathionate in the presence of Fenton's reagent (which forms hydroxyl radicals) are too fast to be directly measured using UV-Vis spectrophotometry, electrochemical, or stop-flow spectrophotometry methods. Competitive reaction kinetics within the context of the Haber—Weiss mechanism suggests that the rate constant for the oxidation of trithionate and tetrathionate with OH* is in excess of 108 M-1 sec-1.
All of fourteen sulfate-reducing bacteria tested were able to carry out aerobic respiration with at least one of the following electron donors: H2, lactate, pyruvate, formate, acetate, butyrate, ethanol, sulfide, thiosulfate, sulfite. Generally, we did not obtain growth with O2 as electron acceptor. The bacteria were microaerophilic, since the respiration rates increased with decreasing O2 concentrations or ceased after repeated O2 additions. The amounts of O2 consumed indicated that the organic substrates were oxidized incompletely to acetate; only Desulfobacter postgatei oxidized acetate with O2 completely to CO2. Many of the strains oxidized sulfite (completely to sulfate) or sulfide (incompletely, except Desulfobulbus propionicus); thiosulfate was oxidized only by strains of Desulfovibrio desulfuricans; trithionate and tetrathionate were not oxidized by any of the strains. With Desulfovibrio desulfuricans CSN and Desulfobulbus propionicus the oxidation of inorganic sulfur compounds was characterized in detail. D. desulfuricans formed sulfate during oxidation of sulfite, thiosulfate or elemental sulfur prepared from polysulfide. D. propionicus oxidized sulfite and sulfide to sulfate, and elemental sulfur mainly to thiosulfate. A novel pathway that couples the sulfur and nitrogen cycles was detected: D. desulfuricans and (only with nitrite) D. propionicus were able to completely oxidize sulfide coupled to the reduction of nitrate or nitrite to ammonia. Cell-free extracts of both strains did not oxidize sulfide or thiosulfate, but formed ATP during oxidation of sulfite (37 nmol per 100 nmol sulfite). This, and the effects of AMP, pyrophosphate and molybdate on sulfite oxidation, suggested that sulfate is formed via the (reversed) sulfate activation pathway (involving APS reductase and ATP sulfurylase). Thiosulfate oxidation with O2 probably required a reductive first step, since it was obtained only with energized intact cells.
An ink jet recording material comprising a support and a binder containing image-receiving layer, characterized in that the image-receiving layer comprises a water-soluble inorganic thiosulfate, trithionate or tetrathionate or an organic thiosulfate in an amount of 2 to 200 wt .-%, based on the amount of binder of includes, image-receiving layer.
Abstract A gold nanorod (AuNR) array electrode was employed to record SERS spectra as a function of immersion time in electrolyte solutions of tetrathionate, trithionate, the [Au(S 2 O 3 ) 2 ] 3− complex, sulfide and thiosulfate. The generalized two-dimensional correlation spectroscopy was employed to deconvolute broad bands in the SERS spectra. The results show that the polythionates, tetrathionate and trithionate, sulfide, and the [Au(S 2 O 3 ) 2 ] 3− complex decompose to form cyclo-S 8 , polymeric and monoatomic sulfur at the gold surface. The relative amount of these different forms of sulfur in the film formed at the surface depends on the nature of the electrolyte species. The decomposition of tetrathionate leads predominantly to the formation of cyclo-S 8 . Comparable amounts of all three forms of sulfur are formed in the solution of the [Au(S 2 O 3 ) 2 ] 3− complex. Monoatomic sulfur is formed predominantly at the gold surface in solutions of trithionate and thiosulfate. In contrast to the previous suggestions, the results of this study demonstrate that polythionates are not present in the passive layer during gold leaching from thiosulfate solutions at a prolonged leaching times.
Bisulfite reductase, purified from Desulfovibrio vulgaris, was coupled with the pyruvate phosphoroclastic reaction. Moderate to low reducing conditions resulted in the formation of trithionate; however, when the concentration of reductant was high, a mixture of trithionate and thiosulfate was formed. Sulfide was also a detectable product, but only when the concentration of bisulfite was low. Flavodoxin mediated native coupling between bisulfite reductase and the phosphoroclastic reaction. A model for bisulfite reductase activity is proposed.
of the earliest energy metabolism in the early Earth. However, many questions remain about how energy is conserved in sulfur-metabolizing organisms. A key reaction in microbial sulfur metabolism is the reduction of sulfite by the siroheme-containing dissimilatory sulfite reductase, DsrAB. This enzyme is present in sulfate, thiosulfate and sulfite reducing organisms, and also in sulfur-oxidizers where it is thought to operate in reverse. The mechanism of sulfite reduction by DsrAB has long been the subject of controversy due to the in vitro formation of thiosulfate and trithionate, in contrast to the closelyrelated assimilatory enzyme that produces only sulfide. Recent studies have identified the small protein DsrC [1] and the DsrMKJOPmembrane complex as physiological partners of DsrAB [2]. In particular, a crystal structure of DsrAB in complex with DsrC suggested the direct involvement of the latter protein in sulfite reduction and led to the proposal of a new mechanism for this reaction [3]. I will present recent in vivo and in vitro studies that reveal the function of DsrC in sulfite reduction, identifying the mechanism and physiological product of this reaction. These results implicate the respiratory membrane complex DsrMKJOP in the process, providing a direct link to energy conservation.
The dissimilation of sulfur compounds is likely to have been one of the earliest energy metabolism in the early Earth. However, many questions remain about how energy is conserved in sulfur-metabolizing organisms. A key reaction in microbial sulfur metabolism is the reduction of sulfite by the siroheme-containing dissimilatory sulfite reductase, DsrAB. This enzyme is present in sulfate, thiosulfate and sulfite reducing organisms, and also in sulfur-oxidizers where it is thought to operate in reverse. The mechanism of sulfite reduction by DsrAB has long been the subject of controversy due to the in vitro formation of thiosulfate and trithionate, in contrast to the closelyrelated assimilatory enzyme that produces only sulfide.
Summary: A polarographic technique and Starkey's alkali method have been applied to the qualitative analysis of thiosulphate, trithionate and pentathionate and to the quantitative analysis of tetrathionate in filtrates of bacterial cultures grown in an inorganic medium containing sodium thiosulphate. Five strains of autotrophic thiobacilli and one strain of a heterotrophic bacterium produced polythionates. During thiosulphate oxidation by two autotrophic strains which resembled Thiobacillus thioparus, tetrathionate, small amounts of trithionate, pentathionate and abundant elemental sulphur were produced and the pH fell from c. 7.0 to c. 3.0. In cultures of one of the three autotrophic strains which resembled T. thiocyanoxidans, about half as much tetrathionate, with even smaller amounts of trithionate and pentathionate, was found; abundant sulphur was precipitated and the pH fell to c. 4.0. In cultures of the two other strains resembling T. thiocyanoxidans, small amounts of tetrathionate were detected only occasionally; trithionate and pentathionate were not found, sulphur was deposited and the pH fell to c. 4.5. Much tetrathionate, as well as trithionate and pentathionate, were all readily identified in cultures of the heterotrophic organism; the pH rose to c. 8.7 and no sulphur was formed.
A polarographic technique and Starkey's alkali method have been applied to the qualitative analysis of thiosulphate, trithionate and pentatliionate and to the quantitative analysis of tetrathionate in filtrates of bacterial cultures grown in an inorganic medium containing sodium thiosulphate. Five strains of autotrophic thiobacilli and one strain of a heterotrophic bacterium produced polythionates. During thiosulphate oxidation by two autotrophic strains which resembled Thiobacillus thiopaws, tetrathionate, small amounts of trithionate, pentathionate and abundant elemental sulphur were produced and the pH fell from c. 7.0 to c. 3-0. I n cultures of one of the three autotrophic strains which resembled T. thiocyanoxidans, about half as much tetrathionate, with even smaller amounts of trithionate and pentathionate, was found; abundant sulphur was precipitated and the pH fell to c. 4.0. I n cultures of the two other strains iesembling T. thiocyanozidans, small amounts of tetrathionate were detected only occasionally ; trithionate and pentathionate were not found, sulphur was deposited and the pH fell to c. 4.5. Much tetrathionate, as well as trithionate and pentathionate, were all readily identified in cultures of the heterotrophic organism; the pH rose to c. 8.7 and no sulphur was formed.
SummaryThe colorimetric method for the determination and evaluation of polythionates above trithionate has been adapted for use in conjunction with sulphur sols. This has been achieved simply by increasing the period of cyanolysis. The method gives good results for the concentration of sulphur. The n values in the formula SnO62−, which also represents sulphur sols, are not very accurate, but the accuracy might be increased by high precision colorimetry. However, they do serve to distinguish between polythionates and colloidal sulphur.
A novel facultatively chemolithoautotropic Thiobacillus, isolated from the gill tissue of the marine bivalve Thyasira flexuosa, is described. It is believed to be the symbiont from this animal, providing the animal with carbon fixed by the Calvin cycle. The organism grows lithoautotrophically on thiosulphate, tetrathionate and elemental sulphur, which are oxidised to sulphate. It oxidizes sulphide, thiosulphate, trithionate, tetrathionate and hexathionate, but not thiocyanate. Kinetic constants for these substrates are presented. In autotrophic batch culture it produces yields that are among the lowest reported for thiosulphate or tetrathionate as energy substrates (1.25 and 2.5 g cell-carbon per mol substrate, respectively). Autotrophic cultures contain ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase and excreted 20% of their fixed carbon into the medium during growth. Mixotrophic growth on acetate and thiosulphate resulted in partial repression of the carboxylase. The organism is slightly halophilic and markedly halotolerant, showing optimum growth at about pH 7.5 and maximum growth rate at 37° C. It contains ubiquinone Q-10 and its DNA contains 52 mol % G+C. These characteristics distinguish it from any other Thiobacillus or Thiomicrospira species previously described. The organism is formally described and named as Thiobacillus thyasiris.
Abstract Sulfite attacks pentathionate at the γ-S-atom of the sulfur chain leading to thiosulfate and tetrathionate as reaction products. Excess of sulfite leads to degradation of the intermediate tetrathionate to thiosulfate and trithionate as final products. In this paper we report on the reaction of 35S-labelled tetrathionate and pentathionate with sulfite.
Thermithiobacillus tepidarius DSM 3134T was originally isolated (1983) from the waters of a sulfidic spring entering the Roman Baths (Temple of Sulis-Minerva) at Bath, United Kingdom and is an obligate chemolithoautotroph growing at the expense of reduced sulfur species. This strain has a genome size of 2,958,498 bp. Here we report the genome sequence, annotation and characteristics. The genome comprises 2,902 protein coding and 66 RNA coding genes. Genes responsible for the transaldolase variant of the Calvin-Benson-Bassham cycle were identified along with a biosynthetic horseshoe in lieu of Krebs' cycle sensu stricto. Terminal oxidases were identified, viz. cytochrome c oxidase (cbb3, EC 1.9.3.1) and ubiquinol oxidase (bd, EC 1.10.3.10). Metalloresistance genes involved in pathways of arsenic and cadmium resistance were found. Evidence of horizontal gene transfer accounting for 5.9 % of the protein-coding genes was found, including transfer from Thiobacillus spp. and Methylococcus capsulatus Bath, isolated from the same spring. A sox gene cluster was found, similar in structure to those from other Acidithiobacillia - by comparison with Thiobacillus thioparus and Paracoccus denitrificans, an additional gene between soxA and soxB was found, annotated as a DUF302-family protein of unknown function. As the Kelly-Friedrich pathway of thiosulfate oxidation (encoded by sox) is not used in Thermithiobacillus spp., the role of the operon (if any) in this species remains unknown. We speculate that DUF302 and sox genes may have a role in periplasmic trithionate oxidation.
T was originally isolated (1983) from the waters of a sulfidic spring entering the Roman Baths (Temple of Sulis-Minerva) at Bath, United Kingdom and is an obligate chemolithoautotroph growing at the expense of reduced sulfur species. This strain has a genome size of 2,958,498 bp. Here we report the genome sequence, annotation and characteristics. The genome comprises 2,902 protein coding and 66 RNA coding genes. Genes responsible for the transaldolase variant of the Calvin-Benson-Bassham cycle were identified along with a biosynthetic horseshoe in lieu of Krebs' cycle sensu stricto. Terminal oxidases were identified, viz. cytochrome c oxidase (cbb 3 , EC 1.9.3.1) and ubiquinol oxidase (bd, EC 1.10.3.10). Metalloresistance genes involved in pathways of arsenic and cadmium resistance were found. Evidence of horizontal gene transfer accounting for 5.9 % of the protein-coding genes was found, including transfer from Thiobacillus spp. and Methylococcus capsulatus Bath, isolated from the same spring. A sox gene cluster was found, similar in structure to those from other Acidithiobacillia -by comparison with Thiobacillus thioparus and Paracoccus denitrificans, an additional gene between soxA and soxB was found, annotated as a DUF302-family protein of unknown function. As the Kelly-Friedrich pathway of thiosulfate oxidation (encoded by sox) is not used in Thermithiobacillus spp., the role of the operon (if any) in this species remains unknown. We speculate that DUF302 and sox genes may have a role in periplasmic trithionate oxidation.
Thermithiobacillus tepidarius DSM 3134 T [1, 2] is a moderately thermophilic sulfur-oxidising obligately chemolithoautotrophic member of the Acidithiobacillia originally published as 'Thiobacillus tepidarius' and assigned to the Betaproteobacteria -this has since been resolved by proteogenomic studies and the species moved firstly to a new genus -Thermithiobacillus - [3] in the Gammaproteobacteria and later to a separate Class, along the the genus Acidithiobacillus [4] . To date it is the only species of the genus with a validly published name and one of only two strains in cultivation [5] . The obligately aerobic chemolithoautotroph was demonstrated [1, 2] to use sulfur oxyanions as sole energy sources. It has a temperature optimum of 44°C, reflecting its environment of isolation. Chemostat-based studies have demonstrated unusually high specific growth yields compared to other chemolithoautotrophs and biochemical studies have demonstrated the presence of a range of sulfur oxidation enzymes including rhodanese (EC 2.8.1.1), trithionate hydrolase (EC 3.12.1.1), thiosulfate dehydrogenase (EC 1.8.2.2), a tetrathionate-proton symport system [6] and at least 3 of each cytochromes c and b [7] . Proton translocations per mole of energy source were significantly higher than in other sulfur-oxidising autotrophs, potentially explaining the high yields. T. tepidarius DSM 3134
Lanthanium(III) has been found to catalyze the reaction of trithionate with sulfide. The effects of reaction temperature and time as well as the pH and amounts of sulfide and lanthanium(III) were investigated; the optimal conditions for trithionate to be stoichiometrically converted into thiosulfate were established. The excess sulfide used for sulfidolysis of trithionate was completely removed with a suspension of freshly precipitated zinc carbonate hydroxide. Then, the formed thiosulfate was allowed to react with a given amount of iodine; excess iodine was measured spectrophotometrically as triiodide. The proposed method was successfull appliedto the determination of trithionate, thiosulfate and sulfide mixed in various ratios and gave a relative standard deviation of 1.4% for trithionate at the 1.00 μmol level in the presence of thiosulfate (2.00 μmol) and sulfide (1.00 μmol)
Abstract A pyrite concentrate with a grind size P 80 of 14 μm was oxidized in an alkaline medium at an oxygen overpressure between 10 and 40 psig, at a temperature of 80 °C. Sodium hydroxide was used to neutralize the acid produced as a result of pyrite oxidation. When the pH was maintained above 12.5, there were three dominant sulphur oxyanions detected in the solution, thiosulphate, sulphite and sulphate. The focus of this study was the calculation of thiosulphate yield as a function of sulphide sulphur concentration of the pyrite in the feed. This calculation included the effect of other sulphur oxyanions on the thiosulphate yield since it is well known that thiosulphate oxidizes fairly rapidly to tetrathionate and trithionate and higher sulphur oxyanions under high alkalinity conditions. The transient formation of tetrathionate and trithionate can only be estimated when the mechanism of formation of these oxyanions is known. Various schemes involving branching of the reaction pathways can be found in the literature but unfortunately, no widely accepted mechanism has emerged from these studies. In the present study, the transformation mechanism is based on the least electron transfer principle and assumes that the transformation reactions occur in series. Based on this approach, linear equations were derived and used to set up a kinetic model of the system with respect to thiosulphate yield. In determining the kinetic constants, the presence of unseen and unmeasured intermediates was assumed and calculated based on the corresponding reaction stoichiometry. A single rate expression combining kinetic constants of all the metastable oxyanions was derived to predict the thiosulphate yield as a function of the known pyrite sulphide sulphur concentration under the experimental conditions that were adopted. dC S 2 O 3 dt = 2 - 1 k 1 k 2 [ C o s - 2 ] [ P O 2 ] ∝ 1 [ OH ] β 2 { 1 - k 4 [ P O 2 ] ∝ 4 + 2 - 3 k 4 k 5 [ P O 2 ] ∝ 4 [ OH ] β 5 ( 5 + k 6 [ OH ] β 6 ) }
