Abstract Aging is associated with increased oxidant generation. One mechanism involved in the defense of oxidative products is the family of glutathione transferases (GST). We have analyzed the activity, distribution and expression of GSTP1 and GSTA4 isoenzymes in the cerebral cortex and cerebellum of young, adult and aged rats. The total GST activity, measured with the universal substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), increased only with the maturation process; however GSTA4 activity, using the specific substrate 4-hydroxynonenal (HNE), did show an age-dependent increase in both brain regions. Cellular location of GSTA4 in astrocytes was not changed except for young cerebral cortex and adult/aged cerebellum that also showed immunoreactivity in layer III pyramidal neurons and Bergman radial glia, respectively. Distribution of GSTP1 was similar among groups and only an increased number of positive oligodendrocytes was found in the Purkinje and granular layer of adult/aged cerebellum. The GSTA4 and GSTP1 expression increased from young to adult/aged brain and GSTA4 even augmented in the aged cerebral cortex. These results suggest a GST isoenzymatic response with aging, but above all with the maturation process.
Incubation of ethylene dibromide (EDB) (37 mM) with a mixture of rat hepatic cytosol GSH S-transferases at 25 degrees resulted in diminished activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and 3,4-dichloronitrobenzene (DCNB). The loss of both activities followed pseudo first order kinetics with a rate constant of 0.13 +/- 0.03 min-1. The concentration of EDB required for half maximal loss of enzymic activity towards CDNB was 3.2 mM. Removal of EDB from the enzyme by lyophilization or gel filtration did not result in the return of activity towards CDNB. GSH partially prevented the loss of activity, but could not reverse the loss. EDB decreased the activity of forms A(YbYb) and C(YbYb) of rat liver GSH S-transferases but not of forms AA(YcYc), B(YaYc) or B(YaYa). It is concluded that EDB inhibits forms A and C of the GSH S-transferases via a mechanism not involving suicide inhibition.
Abstract In this study, feral leaping mullet ( Liza saliens ) liver microsomal 7-ethoxyresorufin O -deethylase (EROD), and cytosolic glutathione S- transferases (GSTs) activities were investigated using 7-ethoxyresorufin, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), and ethacrynic acid (EA) as substrates, respectively. The average EROD activity was found as 1139±175 pmol resorufin/min/mg protein. The average GST activities towards CDNB and EA were found as 1364±41 and 140±19 nmol/min/mg protein, respectively. We have, then, investigated the in vitro effects of some metals and detergents on CYP1A and GST activities in leaping mullet liver. Leaping mullet liver microsomal EROD activity was significantly inhibited by Hg (0.1 mM), Ni (0.1 mM), Cd (0.1 mM), Cu (0.1 mM), Zn (0.1 mM), Sb (0.1 mM), Fe 2+ (1 mM), Co (1 mM), Al (1 mM), and Fe 3+ (1 mM), with the percent inhibition of 80, 80, 77, 75, 70, 69, 56, 53, 46, and 44, respectively. Similarly, conjugation of CDNB catalyzed by GST was inhibited significantly to lesser extend by Hg (0.1 mM), Sb (0.1 mM), Cd (0.1 mM), Cu (0.1 mM), Zn (0.1 mM), Fe 3+ (1 mM), Co (1 mM), and Fe 2+ (1 mM), with the percent inhibition of 70, 69, 65, 61, 54, 51, 47, and 43, respectively. The degrees of inhibition observed on GST catalyzed EA conjugation by Hg (0.1 mM), Cd (0.1 mM), Sb (0.1 mM), Cu (0.1 mM), and Zn (0.1 mM) were 86, 78, 69, 51, and 42, respectively. In addition to metals, the effect of various detergents on leaping mullet liver EROD, GST-CDNB, and GST-EA activities were studied. It was found that ionic detergents strongly inhibited the EROD activity, whereas much less inhibitions were observed with GST catalyzed activities. Therefore, the CYP1A inhibition potencies of metals and detergents suggest that their contribution to the overall CYP1A induction in polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons contaminated environmental samples has to be taken into account for better interpretation of environmental studies.
Abstract In the present study, a model of reconstructed human epidermis (RHE) was used as an in vitro model to discriminate the effects of Tween 80, Triton X100 and benzalkonium chloride (BC) as irritants and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB) as sensitizing agent. The extent of epidermal irritation and sensitization was evaluated morphologically and on the basis of intracellular and extracellular levels of interleukin-1α (IL-1α) and interleukin-8 (IL-8). The corresponding constitutive mRNA levels were quantified and the cytotoxic response was assessed by MTT assay. The RHE resembled normal human epidermis with all typical layers. The keratin 10 (K10) was typically confined in the suprabasal layers of the tissue, suggesting normal epidermal terminal differentiation. Topical application of the three surfactants resulted in significant changes of tissue morphology and was coupled with different dose-dependent decreases in cell viability corresponding to their in vivo irritant potency. The IL-1α release increased concomitantly with cell viability decrease, but surprisingly, the surfactants did not elicit elevated IL-8 levels. In contrast, DNCB did not induce elevated IL-1α release although it induced a rapid dose-dependent decrease in cell viability. On the contrary, it increased the IL-8 release. RT-PCR demonstrated the presence of mRNA for IL-1α as well as for IL-8. IL-1α was the most abundant cytokine transcript. BC, Triton X100 and DNCB upregulated IL-8 mRNA expression while only BC induced a significant increase in IL-1α mRNA expression. Our results showed that the production of IL-1α and its release into the extracellular medium was ascribed not only to direct cytotoxicity but also to the extent of tissue stimulation. Conversely, the production of IL-8 did not directly correlate with cytotoxicity but seems to be linked to the type of product applied either irritant or sensitizer. Our data demonstrate that divergent IL-1α and IL-8 release profiles and corresponding mRNA upregulation characterize the response to the tested irritants and DNCB. These results currently need confirmation by the introduction of more numerous known irritants and sensitizers in the tests used in the present study. However, they already suggest that it may be possible in a single assay to classify and to discriminate between irritant and sensitizing agents as a function of induced cytokine production patterns and of cell viability measurements.
The functional and structural role of the conserved Asn49 of theta class maize glutathione S-transferase was investigated by site-directed mutagenesis. Asn49 is located in the type I β turn formed by residues 49–52, and is involved in extensive hydrogen-bonding interactions between α helix 2 and the rest of the N-terminal domain. The substitution of Asn49 with Ala induces positive cooperativity for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) binding as reflected by a Hill coefficient of 1.9 ( = 0.43 mm). The positive cooperativity is also confirmed by following the isothermic binding of 1-hydroxyl-2,4-dinitrobenzene (HDNB) by UV-difference spectroscopy. In addition, the mutated enzyme exhibits: (a) an increase in the value of about 6.5-fold, and decrease in kcat value of about fourfold; (b) viscosity-independent kinetic parameters; (c) lower thermostability, and (d) increased susceptibility to proteolytic attack by trypsin, when compared to the wild-type enzyme. It is concluded that Asn49 affects the rate-limiting step of the catalytic reaction, and contributes significantly to the structural and binding characteristics of both the glutathione binding site (G-site) and the electrophile substrate binding site (H-site) by affecting the structural integrity of a type I β turn (comprising residues 49–52) and probably the flexibility of the highly mobile short 310 helical segment of α helix 2 (residues 35–46). These structural perturbations are probably transmitted, via Phe51 and Phe65, to α helix H3′′ of the adjacent subunit which contains key residues that interact with the electrophile substrate and contribute to the monomer–monomer contact region. This may accounts for the positive cooperativity observed.
Abstract : Isotopically labeled (C13 and N15) and unlabeled DNAN were synthesized in two steps from chlorobenzene in high purity and regioselectivity with an overall yield of 69% from readily available materials. The syntheses and full characterizations (H1, C13, N14, N15 NMR, IR, and HRMS) of labeled and unlabeled DNAN, as well as its synthetic precursor, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, are discussed. The use of isotopically labeled material and their spectra will enable the toxicity and biodegradation potential of DNAN to be more easily determined.
Overnight (10-16 h) incubation of retinoic acid (RA), a derivative of vitamin A, specifically induced LTC4 synthase activity (5 to 10-fold), but not LTA4 hydrolase activity in the lysate of rat basophilic leukemia-1 (RBL-1) cells. A time course study revealed that the increase of LTC4 synthase activity was time dependent and that the peak value was obtained after a 24-hour incubation with RA. The induction of enzyme activity was specifically localized to the microsomal fraction. Glutathione (GSH) S-transferase activity measured by using the same cell lysate as an enzyme source and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB) as a substrate was not influenced by RA treatment, indicating that the induction by RA is specific for membrane-bound LTC4 synthase. The induction of LTC4 synthase may be an important regulatory mechanism of peptide-LT synthesis in allergy and inflammatory diseases.
Glutathione S-transferase was purified approximately 2,300-fold from cell extracts of Escherichia coli B with a 7.5% activity yield. The molecular weight of the enzyme was 45,000, and the enzyme appeared to consist of two homogeneous subunits. The enzyme was almost specific to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (Km, 1.43 mM) and glutathione (Km, 0.33 mM). The optimal pH and optimal temperature for activity were 7.0 and 50 degrees C, respectively, and the enzyme was stable from pH 5 to 11. The activity of the enzyme for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (3,2 mumol/min per mg of protein) was significantly lower than those of the enzymes from mammals, plants, and fungi.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs ; EC 2.5.1.18) are encoded by a gene family. Some GSTs have the capacity to bind to indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), whereas the gene expression of other GSTs is regulated by auxin. In order to assess a possible physiological significance of the auxin binding of GST, we investigated effects of auxins on the activity of GST expressed in Escherichia coli. cDNA cloning was carried out for the fifth gene (GSTS) of GST in Arabidopsis. Although the deduced amino acid sequence of GSTS was remotely related to that of the other Arabidopsis GSTs (less than 20% identical), the GSTS protein (GSTS) expressed in E. coli showed GST activity. Apparent K m values of GSTS are 0.86 and 1.29 mM for glutathione (GSH) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, respectively. IAA, 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (1-NAA) and 2-NAA inhibited the enzyme activity competitively with respect to GSH. The apparent K i of IAA is 1.56 mM. Salicylic acid inhibited GST activity in a noncompetitive manner. 2,4-D was the most inhibitory among the tested chemicals. GSTS bound to GSH-immobilized agarose gel was effectively eluted by IAA. These results indicate that IAA and the related substances bind to GSTS at the GSH-binding site, and exclude the possibility that the compounds could be substrates for GSTS. Although the K i value of IAA is too high for any physiological consequences, it might be assumed that GST activity is modulated in vivo by an auxin-related substance(s). The steady-state level of the GSTS mRNA was increased by wounding, heat shock, and spraying buffer on the plant, but was not influenced by auxin treatment.
A glutathione transferase (PfGST) isolated from Plasmodium falciparum has been associated with chloroquine resistance. A range of natural products including malagashanine (MG) were screened for inhibition of PfGST by a GST assay with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as a substrate. Only the sesquiterpene (JBC 42C), the bicoumarin (Tral-1), ellagic acid and curcumin, were shown to be potent inhibitors of PfGST with IC50 values of 8.5, 12, 50 and 69 μM, respectively. Kinetic studies were performed on PfGST using ellagic acid as an inhibitor. Uncompetitive and mixed types of inhibition were obtained for glutathione (GSH) and 1-chloro-2, 4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). The Ki for GSH and CDNB were −0.015 μM and 0.011 μM, respectively. Malagashanine (100 µM) only reduced the activity of PfGST to 80% but showed a time-dependent inactivation of PfGST with a t1/2 of 34 minutes compared to >120 minutes in the absence of MG or in the presence of 5 mM GSH. This work facilitates the understanding of the interaction of PfGST with...
In the human malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum, membrane glutathione S-transferases (GST) have recently emerged as potential cellular detoxifying units and as drug target candidates with the artemisinin (ART) class of antimalarials inhibiting their activity at single-digit nanomolar potency when activated by iron sources such as cytotoxic hematin. Here we put forward the hypothesis that the membrane GST Plasmodium falciparum exported protein 1 (PfEXP1, PF3D7_1121600) might be directly involved in the mode of action of the unrelated antimalarial 4-aminoquinoline drug chloroquine (CQ). Along this line we report potent biochemical inhibition of membrane glutathione S-transferase activity in recombinant PfEXP1 through CQ at half maximal inhibitory CQ concentrations of 9.02 nM and 19.33 nM when using hematin and the iron deficient 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrate, respectively. Thus, in contrast to ART, CQ may not require activation through an iron source such as hematin for a potent inhibition of membrane GST activity. Arguably, these data represent the first instance of low nanomolar inhibition of an essential Plasmodium falciparum enzyme through a 4-aminoquinoline and might encourage further investigation of PfEXP1 as a potential CQ target candidate.
Glutathione transferase (GST) was present in 71 of 72 animal species/stages representing nine phyla when measured with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). Our hypothesis that all animals have GST was not falsified. Transferase activity towards ethacrynic acid (ETHA) was present in species from all phyla investigated, but some animals seem to be without this activity. Activity towards 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB) was less developed in aquatic animals than in terrestrial ones. The amount of protein binding to GSH-affinity gel matrix was rather uniform, ranging between 0.3 and 0.7% of soluble protein in homogenates of widely diverse animal species, thus being less variable than the enzyme activity. Transferases active towards DCNB did not bind at all or were less firmly bound to the GSH-affinity gel than the activity towards CDNB or ETHA. Fractionation was obtained by using a gradient of GSH. With SDS-electrophoresis it was demonstrated that the proteins with affinity to GSH had monomers in the MW-range 21.500-29.000. Hydra attenuata had one band (MW = 25,000); all other sources gave a complex pattern with up to six bands. It is concluded that GSTs are characteristic major constituents of animal cells, probably with some common basic function. Mutant forms able to aid detoxication are retained in the phylogenesis when they increase the fitness of the animal.
1-Chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB) contact sensitivity and other T lymphocyte functions were studied in thymectomized and non-thymectomized patients with myasthenia gravis. The ability to develop contact sensitivity was reduced in patients with myasthenia gravis and was further reduced after thymectomy. Memory lymphocyte function, as measured by skin tests with common microbial antigens, was intact. A positive phytohemagglutinin (PHA) skin test was found mainly in those patients who also developed contact sensitivity to DNCB. The number of rosette-forming T cells in the peripheral blood as well as mitogen stimulation with PHA was found to be normal in thymectomized as well as non-thymectomized patients. In the thymectomized group, mitogen stimulation with concanavalin A and staphylococcal protein A was also within the normal range, while increased stimulation was obtained with pokeweed mitogen (PWM) and purified protein derivative (PPD). No alteration in mixed lymphocyte culture reactivity or immunoglobulin levels was obtained compared with healthy blood donors. On the basis of these results, it is concluded that non-thymectomized as well as thymectomized patients with myasthenia gravis may have a defective subpopulation of T cells possibly residing in the TH1-positive population. Furthermore, the increased lymphocyte stimulation obtained with PPD and PWM may indicate a reduction of suppressor cell activity after thymectomy.
Abstract The structural gene for glutathione S -transferase in Oryza sativa was successfully cloned from a cDNA library by the polymerase chain reaction method. The deduced amino acid sequence of this gene showed 44–66% similarity to the sequences of the class phi GSTs from Arabidopsis thaliana and Zea mays . This gene was expressed in Escherichia coli with the pET vector system and the gene product was purified to homogeneity by GSH–Sepharose affinity column chromatography. The expressed Os GSTF3-3 was a homo-dimer composed of 24 kDa subunit and its p I value was approximately 7.3. The Os GSTF3-3 was retained on GSH affinity column and its K m value for GSH was 0.28 mM. The Os GSTF3-3 displayed high activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, a general GST substrate and also had high activities towards acetanilide herbicides, alachlor, and metolachlor. The Os GSTF3-3 was highly sensitive to inhibition by benastatin A and S -hexyl-GSH. From these results, the expressed Os GSTF3-3 is a phi class GST and seems to play an important role in the conjugation of the chloroacetanilide herbicides.
Summary Mice sensitized to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and stressed by heating or heating followed by intravenous injection of pyrogen free sterile saline gave quantitatively less severe delayed hypersensitivity reactions when exposed to the sensitizing agent than did non-stressed mice.
The effect of aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) on the expression of glutathione S-transferase-P (GST-P) which is the major isoform of GST in developmental stages has been investigated in rat liver during prenatal and postnatal stages. Following administration of AFB1 (0, 0.5, 1.0, 2.0, 3.0 or 4.0 mg/kg bw) injected I.P on day 8.5 of gestation the number of dead or reabsorbed fetuses and malformed embryos were recorded. Then the fetal livers were processed for measurement of total GST and GST-P activities, using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and ethacrynic acid (ETA) as substrates respectively. RT-PCR using rat GST-P specific primers was performed on mRNA extracted from livers. Besides, the effects of AFB1 on hepatic GST and GST-P were assessed in groups of suckling rats directly injected with the toxin. The results show that a single dose of AFB1 (1.0 or 2.0 mg/kg bw) caused approximately 50–60% depletion in fetal liver GST towards CDNB. Postnatal experiments revealed that liver GST (using CDNB as substrate) was significantly induced (~40%) in suckling rats injected with a single dose of AFB1 (3.0 mg AFB1/kg) 24 h before killing. Liver GST-P expression was unaffected due to AFB1 exposures of rats before and after the birth. This finding was substantiated by western blotting and RT-PCR techniques. These data suggest that AFB1-related induction in rat liver total GST after birth may be implicated in protective mechanisms against AFB1. In contrast, inhibition of this enzyme in fetal liver following placental transfer of the carcinogen may explain high susceptibility of fetal cells to transplancental aflatoxins. Furthermore, lack of influence of AFB1 on GST-P expression in developmental stages can role out the involvement of this class of GST in AFB1 biotransformation.
The significance of glutathione S-conjugate in the regulation of glutathione synthesis was studied using human erythrocyte γ-glutamylcysteine synthetase. Feedback inhibition of the enzyme by reduced glutathione was released by the addition of the glutathione S-conjugate (S-2,4-dinitrophenyl glutathione). A half-maximal effect of glutathione S-conjugate on γ-glutamylcysteine synthetase activity was obtained at approximately 1 μM; 50 μM glutathione S-conjugate in the presence of 10 mM glutathione actually increased the enzyme activity twofold above uninhibited levels. Glutathione S-conjugate had no effect on the enzyme activity in the absence of glutathione. ::: ::: ::: ::: When erythrocytes were exposed to the electrophile 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, which forms a glutathione S-conjugate by the catalytic reaction of glutathione S-transferase, the level of glutathione synthesis increased. These data suggest that glutathione S-conjugate plays a role in stimulating the synthesis of glutathione.
The enzymatically catalyzed conjugation of glutathione with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and styrene-7,8-oxide is inhibited by tetrabromosulfophthalein in a non-competetive way, although tetrabromosulfophthalein itself is a substrate for glutathione S-transferases. Dibromosulfophthalein, which is not a substrate for glutathione S-transferases, inhibits the 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene conjugation competetively and the styrene-7,8-oxide conjugation non-competetively.
Glutathione S-transferase was purified approximately 2,300-fold from cell extracts of Escherichia coli B with a 7.5% activity yield. The molecular weight of the enzyme was 45,000, and the enzyme appeared to consist of two homogeneous subunits. The enzyme was almost specific to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (K,. 1.43 mM) and glutathione (K,,, 0.33 mM). The optimal pH and optimal temperature for activity were 7.0 and 50°C, respectively, and the enzyme was stable from pH 5 to 11. The activity of the enzyme for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (3.2 ,umol/min per mg of protein) was significantly lower than those of the enzymes from mammals, plants, and fungi.
MATERIALS AND METHODS Chemicals. GSH was purchased from Kohjin Co., Ltd., Tokyo, Japan. 1-Chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was from Tokyo Kasei Kogyo Co., Ltd., Tokyo, Japan. Glutathione agarose was prepared from AH-Sepharose CL-4B according to the vendor's specifications (Pharmacia).
Assays. The activity of GST was assayed essentially by the method of Habig et al. (6). The reaction mixture (1.0 ml) consisted of 0.1 M potassium phosphate buffer (KPB) (pH 7.0), 1.0 mM EDTA, 1.0 mM GSH, 1.0 mM 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), and enzyme. The enzyme activity was calculated by using a molar extinction coefficient of S-(2,4-dinitrophenyl)glutathione as 9.6 M-1 cm-' at 340 nm and 25°C. One unit of enzyme activity was defined as the amount producing 1 nmol of conjugate of GSH with CDNB per min. Protein was determined by the method of Lowry et al. (13). GSH in cells was determined by the method of Murata et al. (17).
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs E.C. 2.5.1.18) are isozymes having central roles in the cellular detoxication of a diverse group of exogenous and endogenous harmful compounds [13] . GSTs catalyze the initial step in the formation of mercapturic acid derivatives of a wide range of foreign compounds [14] . They conjugate reduced glutathione (GSH) with compounds that contain an electrophilic center through the formation of a thioether bond between the sulphur atom of GSH and the substrate .In addition, these enzymes also carryout a range of other functions like nucleophilic aromatic substitution reactions, reversible Michael additions to a, b-unsaturated aldehydes and ketones, isomerizations, epoxide ring openings, and peroxidase reactions [13, [15] [16] [17] . Despite low amino acid sequence identity, the global fold of GSTs is remarkably similar. Most cytosolic GSTs are dimeric and consists of two structurally distinct domains -the N-terminal thioredoxin like domain and a larger C-terminal all a-helical domain. The N-terminal domain contains the GSH binding site while the C-terminal domain is involved in substrate recognition. In some eukaryotes monomeric GSTs are also reported. GSTs have been divided into a number of classes -alpha, mu, pi, theta, sigma, beta, chi, omega, zeta, Abbreviations: GST, glutathione S-transferase; GSH, reduced glutathione; DCA, dichloroacetate; CDNB, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene; GSTZ, glutathione S-transferase zeta etc. -that is based on amino acid sequence similarity, immunological, kinetic, and tertiary/quaternary structural properties. Cytosolic GSTs within a class share >40% identity whereas there is only approximately 25% identity between classes [18] .
Abstract Glutathione transferase (GST) enzymes catalyze the conjugation of glutathione with reactive functional groups of endogenous compounds and xenobiotics, including halonitroaromatics. 1-Chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) is one of the most commonly used substrates for GST activity assays. We have studied the interactions of dinitronaphthalene analogues of CDNB with recombinant human GST enzymes (Alpha, Mu, and Pi classes) expressed in Escherichia coli . Dinitronaphthalene derivatives were found to be GST inhibitors. The highest potency of inhibition was observed towards Mu-class GSTs, M1-1 and M2-2; IC 50 values for 1-methoxy- and 1-ethoxy-2,4-dinitronaphthalene were in the high nanomolar to low micromolar range. Inhibition accompanies the formation, at the enzyme active site, of very stable Meisenheimer complex intermediates.
The carmine spider mite (CSM) Tetranychus cinnabarinus has become a serious pest in China and has developed resistance to acaricide propargite as it is used to control mites worldwide including T. cinnabarinus. In this study, a resistant colony of T. cinnabarinus, PRR34 (37.78-fold resistant ratio), was established after 34 generations of propargite selection, and cross-resistance patterns of 7 other acaricides were determined in comparison with a susceptible strain (SS). The contribution of detoxification enzymes to propargite tolerance were investigated using biological, biochemical and molecular approaches. Enzyme inhibitor synergist tests suggested glutathione S-transferases (GST) involvement in propargite-resistance of PRR34, and GST activity against 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was correlated with the development of resistance. Eight novel GST genes (TcGSTd1, TcGSTd2, TcGSTm1, TcGSTm2, TcGSTm3, TcGSTm4 and TcGSTm5) were cloned, and phylogenetic analysis showed that the eight GST genes were most closely related to GST family delta and mu from Tetranychusurticae. Quantitative RT-PCR revealed that the expression level of GSTs in PPR34 strain increased in larvae, nymphs and adults, while decreased in eggs compared with that of SS. Collectively, these results support a role of GSTs in mediating resistance to propargite in the PRR34 strain. TcGSTd1,TcGSTd2 and TcGSTm2 genes might play significant roles in propargite resistance of CSM, especially at adult stage. This is the first attempt to define specific genes involved in GST mediated propargite resistance of T. cinnabarinus at the transcriptional level.
Three distinct glutathione transferases in the liver cytosol fraction of male NMRI mice have been purified by affinity chromatography and fast protein liquid chromatofocusing. These enzymes account for approximately 95% of the activity detectable with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as electrophilic substrate. Differences between the three forms are manifested in isoelectric points, apparent subunit molecular mass values, amino acid compositions, N-terminal structures, substrate specificities, and sensitivities to inhibitors, as well as in reactions with specific antibodies raised against glutathione transferases from rat and human tissues. The results indicate strongly that the three mouse enzymes are products of different genes. A comparison of the mouse glutathione transferases with rat and human enzymes revealed similarities between the transferases from different species. Mouse glutathione transferases have been named on the basis of their respective subunit compositions.
To better define the role of glutathione (GSH) in cell differentiation, the present study measured GSH concentrations during terminal HL-60 cell differentiation, in the presence and absence of differentiation-inducing agents, and in the presence and absence of GSH altering agents. Interestingly, there was a small transient increase in intracellular GSH levels during dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) or 1α,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (VD3) induced differentiation. This increase coincided with an increase in nitroblue tetrazolium (NBT) reduction capacity, a measure of superoxide anion production, but there was no apparent change in the GSH/glutathione disulfide (GSSG) ratio. Surprisingly, treatment of cells with low doses of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB; 5 µM) or diethylmaleate (DEM; 0.5 mM), which transiently deplete GSH levels to about 40% of control levels, resulted in enhanced differentiation of HL-60 cells exposed to VD3 or all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA), as well as under un-induced conditions (i.e., spontaneous differentiation). Enhanced differentiation occurred when cells were treated with the GSH-depleting agents 4 hours after treatment with differentiation inducers. These findings indicate that intracellular GSH levels are regulated in a complex fashion during HL-60 cell differentiation, and that transient GSH depletion using low doses of CDNB and DEM enhances the differentiation process.
Chronic nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia has been observed in a recently described glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) variant, G6PDWayne. The mechanical properties of these erythrocytes and other G6PD variants were examined. The deformability of G6PD-deficient erythrocytes was normal, as determined by osmotic scan ektacytometry, and was not significantly affected by hemolytic crisis. In the common varieties of G6PD deficiency, the mechanical stability of the red blood cell (RBC) membrane was greater than normal, but G6PDWayne membranes were abnormally susceptible to shear-induced fragmentation. There was no evidence for a concurrent genetic defect in spectrin, because self-association constants and tryptic digests were normal. The fragility of G6PDWayne membranes appeared to be a consequence of oxidative damage to membrane thiol groups associated with a low glutathione (GSH) level in these RBCs. Associations among GSH level, thiol oxidation, and membrane instability were also found when a larger group of G6PD-deficient RBCs were examined. In normal erythrocytes, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was used to reduce GSH levels by 50%. Membrane thiol oxidation and membrane fragility both increased when these cells were kept at 4 degrees C for 3 to 5 days. Our findings suggest that chronic depletion of GSH leads to the destabilization of membrane skeleton through oxidation of membrane protein thiols.
Abstract Glutathione S -transferase (GST) from midgut microsomes of fall armyworm larvae metabolized a variety of model substrates such as 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, p -nitrophenyl acetate, and p -nitrobenzyl chloride but had no activity toward 1,2-epoxy-3-( p -nitrophenoxy) propane, 4-nitropyridine- N -oxide, bromosulfophthalein, and α,β-unsaturated carbonyl compounds (e.g., trans -4-phenyl-3-buten-2-one, trans -2-octenal, and trans,trans -2,4-decadienal). Microsomal GST activity (toward CDNB) was generally less sensitive to inhibition by different inhibitors than the cytosolic GSTs. Unlike cytosolic GSTs, microsomal GST was not induced by xanthotoxin and indole 3-acetonitrile. The enzyme was not activated by the treatment of microsomes with N -ethylmaleimide. A single GST isozyme was affinity-purified 22-fold from midgut microsomes, which had a subunit molecular weight of 27,000 Da. The transferase had an apparent K m value of 0.91 mM and a V max of 6.67 μmol/min/mg protein (toward CDNB). In comparison with microsomal GST, midgut cytosolic GSTs showed a broader substrate specificity and were active toward various α,β-unsaturated carbonyl compounds. Two affinity-purified GST isozymes, GST-1 and GST-2, from the midgut cytosol exhibited the same substrate specificity as the cytosol except that DCNB did not serve as substrate for the enzymes. The purifications were 5- to 133-fold, depending on the substrates used. Both isozymes were heterodimers with subunit molecular weights of 26,700 and 28,000 Da. GST-1 had an apparent K m value of 0.91 mM and a V max of 2.35 μmol/min/mg protein, whereas GST-2 showed an apparent K m of 2.26 mM and a V max of 3.00 μmol/min/mg protein (toward CDNB). GST-2 was not immunologically related to microsomal GST. Both microsomal and cytosolic GST isozymes possessed cumene hydroperoxide peroxidase activity, indicating the antioxidant nature of the enzymes.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) catalyze the conjugation of electrophilic compounds to glutathione (GSH), and are involved in the detoxification of xenobiotics in plants. However, little is known about the endogenous substrates of plant GSTs, or their role in normal cellular processes. A cDNA library was constructed with poly(A) + RNA isolated from cell suspension cultures of opium poppy (Papaver somniferum L.) treated with a fungal elicitor. A putative type III GST fragment was amplified by PCR from the cDNA library using degenerate primers designed from conserved domains found in several plant GSTs. The cDNA library was screened with the PCR product and 3 homologous clones were isolated. Deduced amino acid sequences from these clones displayed extensive homology to other plant type III GSTs, especially within the N-terminal domain. One full-length cDNA, designated pGST2, was expressed in Escherichia coli, and the recombinant enzyme exhibited strong GST activity in bacterial protein extracts, using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as the substrate. Recombinant GST2 activity was inhibited by p-coumaroyl- and feruloyl-CoA esters, and p-coumaric- and ferulic-acid amides of tyramine, but not by free hydroxycinnamic acids or aromatic amines. Although type III GSTs in opium poppy appear to bind select endogenous phenolics, the in vitro conjugation of GSH to these compounds was not detected. Genomic DNA gel blot-hybridization analysis confirmed the existence of a small family of type III GST genes in opium poppy. RNA gel blot-hybridization analysis showed that type III GST transcripts were most abundant in the roots of mature opium poppy plants, and were induced in developing seedlings and in cell suspension cultures treated with a fungal elicitor. Relative transcript levels were generally consistent with the levels of total GST enzyme activity in each tissue.
When rats were fed a diet containing 0.4% (w/w) butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT), a three-fold increase in total glutathione (GSH) S-transferase activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was observed in liver but not in lung or kidney. Hepatic GSH S-transferase activities towards styrene oxide (SO) and 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)propane (EPNP) were also increased, but to a lesser extent. Isoelectric focusing studies indicated that the activities of most of the rat liver GSH S-transferase isoenzymes were induced. Immunoprecipitation studies of the native and induced enzymes suggested that de novo synthesis of these proteins caused the increase in GSH S-transferase activity in liver. A two-fold increase in glutathione reductase activity in liver upon dietary administration of BHT was observed. Kinetic and physical properties of the native and induced enzymes were similar which may indicate that the induction is due to the synthesis of this enzyme. A significant increase in reduced glutathione (GSH) content in liver and lung was also seen in rats treated with BHT.
Transcriptional activation of the soybean (Glycine max) GH2/4 gene (also referred to as Gmhsp26-A) and increase in abundance of the GH2/4 mRNA (also referred to as pCE54) have been previously shown to occur following treatment of soybean seedlings with auxins, nonauxin analogs, heavy metals, and a variety of other agents. To determine whether the GH2/4 promoter is responsive to an array of different agents, we have analyzed the inducibility of the GH2/4 promoter fused to the [beta]-glucuronidase reporter gene in transgenic tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) plants. We have shown that a wide variety of chemical agents induce this promoter in a tissue-specific and concentration-dependent manner. In addition, we have used an affinity-purified antibody raised against recombinant GH2/4 protein to show that the GH2/4 protein increases in response to auxin application and is localized in the cytosol of soybean cells. Recombinant GH2/4 protein can be purified to homogeneity on a glutathione-agarose resin, and the purified protein has glutathione S-transferase activity when assayed with the substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene.
Hepatocytes were isolated from nafenopin-treated animals (80 mg/kg body weight in 1.2 ml/kg body weight olive oil for 2 consecutive days) and exposed to various doses of 1,2 dichloroethane (DCE) (64–159 μmol) and 1,2-dibromoethane (DBE) (5.5–27.5 μmol) for up to 3 hr to assess the effect of nafenopin on the toxicity of dihaloalkanes. The activity of biotransformation enzymes involved in the activation and detoxication of these solvents was measured. Although cytochrome P450IIE1 activity was apparently unaltered, glutathione S-transferase activity was significantly reduced; the reduction was 20% for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate but 40% and 80%, respectively for DBE and DCE. DBE was more than 10 times more cytotoxic to nafenopin-treated hepatocytes than DCE, and while very little change in DCE cytotoxicity was observed in hepatocytes isolated from nafenopin pretreated rats compared with control animals, DBE cytotoxicity was significantly potentiated in cells isolated from nafenopin-pretreated rats compared with cells from controls. It is believed that enhanced toxicity of DBE in isolated cells from nafenopin-treated rats is the result of modulation of dihaloalkane metabolism (glutathione conjugation).
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) play a key role in the metabolism of drugs and xenobiotics. To investigate the catalytic mechanism, substrate binding and catalysis by the wild-type and two mutants of GST A1-1 have been studied. Substitution of the 'essential' Tyr(9) by phenylalanine leads to a marked decrease in the k(cat) for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), but has no affect on k(cat) for ethacrynic acid. Similarly, removal of the C-terminal helix by truncation of the enzyme at residue 209 leads to a decrease in k(cat) for CDNB, but an increase in k(cat) for ethacrynic acid. The binding of a GSH analogue increases the affinity of the wild-type enzyme for CDNB, and increases the rate of the enzyme-catalysed conjugation of this substrate with the small thiols 2-mercaptoethanol and dithiothreitol. This suggests that GSH binding produces a conformational change which is transmitted to the binding site for the hydrophobic substrate, where it alters both the affinity for the substrate and the catalytic-centre activity ('turnover number') for conjugation, perhaps by increasing the proportion of the substrate bound productively. Neither of these two effects of GSH analogues are seen in the C-terminally truncated enzyme, indicating a role for the C-terminal helix in the GSH-induced conformational change.
Two mutant forms of human glutathione transferase (GST) A1-1 with affinity for metal ions were constructed by introduction of His residues by site-directed mutagenesis. A mutant, 2-His, contained the mutations Lys84Gln, Asp85His and Glu88His, and another, 5-His, contained the mutations Tyr79His, Asn80His, Lys84His, Asp85His and Glu88His. The mutant proteins were obtained in good yields (40-150 mg per 3 l culture) by heterologous expression in Escherichia coli. The mutant enzymes possessed novel binding affinities for Ni(II) and Zn(II) ions, as demonstrated by immobilized metal ion affinity chromatography. The mutant with two novel His residues (2-His mutant) did not bind as tightly to immobilized Ni(II) as did the mutant with five novel His residues (5-His mutant). When tested for affinity to immobilized Zn(II), only the 5-His mutant remained bound to the column. The affinity of the 5-His mutant for Ni(II) ions in solution was determined by binding experiments in an aqueous polymeric two-phase system. Analysis of the binding curve showed two binding sites per enzyme subunit and a dissociation constant of 6.7 +/- 1.6 mu M. The kinetic constants kcat, Km and kcat/Km for the reaction with glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene were determined by steady-state kinetic analysis and the parameter values for the mutant forms were found to be indistinguishable from those obtained for the wild-type GST A1-1. The differences in surface charge in the mutant proteins as compared with the wild-type enzyme did not alter the pH dependence of kcat. The results provide an alternative method for purification of fully active recombinant GST A1-1 by the introduction of novel metal binding sites. The data also showed that two His residues are sufficient for Ni(II) binding.
A rat liver mitochondrial-matrix fraction was prepared and shown to have 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene(CDNB)-metabolizing glutathione transferase (GST) activity. Further fractionation by sequential gel filtration, isoelectric focusing or chromatofocusing and hydroxyapatite chromatography yielded three GSTs of pI 9.3, 8.9 and 7.5, none of which bound to a GSH-agarose affinity matrix. Most of the activity was associated with the pI-9.3 form, which was selected for further study. Its activity was tested with the following potential substrates in addition to CDNB: 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, p-nitrobenzyl chloride, trans-4-phenylbut-3-en-2-one, 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)propane, ethacrynic acid, menaphthyl sulphate, cumene hydroperoxide, linoleic acid hydroperoxide and 4-hydroxynon-2-enal. Appreciable activity was obtained only with CDNB and ethacrynic acid (82 and 26 mumol/min per mg of protein respectively). The apparent Km for GSH, using 1 mM-CDNB, was 1.9 mM. The enzyme is a dimer of subunit Mr 26,500. It has a free N-terminus, which has enabled the first 33 amino acids to be sequenced. This portion of primary structure has a sequence in common with members of the Theta class of GSTs (eg. 36% identity with subunit 12) and also a sequence which might function as a mitochondrial import signal. It is novel and has been named ‘GST 13-13’.
Transgenic Indian mustard (Brassica juncea) overexpressing y-glutamylcysteine synthetase (ECS) or glutathione synthetase (GS) were shown previously to have two-fold higher levels of glutathione and total nonprotein thiols, as well as enhanced cadmium tolerance and accumulation. Here, the hypothesis was tested that these transgenics have enhanced tolerance to organic pollutants, based on the reasoning that many organic xenobiotics are detoxified via conjugation to glutathione. Both the ECS and GS transgenics showed enhanced tolerance to atrazine: while root growth of wildtype seedlings was inhibited 50% by 100 mg L(-1) atrazine, ECS and GS root growth was inhibited 20-30% (P < 0.05). The tolerance of the transgenics to CDNB (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene). metolachlor, and phenanthrene was also somewhat higher than wild type, but these differences were not as pronounced. Each of the organics treatments significantly enhanced total nonprotein thiol levels in all plant types (2 to 12-fold). Overall, these results suggest that GSH biosynthesis is limiting for atrazine detoxification in Indian mustard and that overexpression of enzymes involved in GSH biosynthesis offers a promising approach to create plants with the enhanced capacity to tolerate not only heavy metals, but also certain organics.
The uptake, toxicity, and elimination of atrazine and trifluoroacetate (TFA) were studied in early life stages of the zebrafish (Danio rerio). Furthermore, the effects of these xenobiotics on soluble (s) and microsomal (m) glutathione S-transferases (GST) of zebrafish embryos were investigated using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB), and [(14)C]atrazine. [(14)C]Atrazine was taken up by the embryos within seconds, unhindered by the chorions. It accumulated in the embryos by a factor of 19 after 24 h of exposure time. LC(50) (48 h) was determined at 36.8 mg/L. At a level of 5 mg/L atrazine, activities of s and m GSTs were elevated in most stages, especially in prim 6 and long pec stage (24, 48 h after fertilization, respectively). GST activity toward atrazine was detectable only in untreated D. rerio eggs, increasing with developmental time. [(14)C]Atrazine was eliminated from the embryos between 24 and 48 h, indicating a possible metabolism to a more hydrophilic GSH conjugate. [(14)C]TFA was taken up by embryos, reaching at maximum fivefold the concentration of the incubation medium after 10 h. The chorions served no physiological protection. TFA (1 g/L) caused low elevation of the GST activity. No acute toxic effects (48 h) were observed up to 4 g/L TFA.
To assist in defining the mechanism(s) by which the activity of hepatic glutathione S-transferase (GST) is decreased in obese rodents, the cytosolic concentrations of individual GST isozymes were determined by high-performance liquid chromatography. For this purpose, liver cytosols from 8- and 16-week-old obese yellow Avy/a and lean black a/a male and female mice of the inbred VY/WffC3Hf/Nctr-Avy strain were assayed. Obese yellow males contained less hepatic GT-9.0 than lean black males; however, there were no differences between the obese and lean females. GT-9.0 concentration, which is induced by testosterone, was several-fold higher in males than in females, regardless of genotype or body weight. No differences in concentrations of other isozymes were detected. Hepatic GST activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was significantly higher in lean males than in obese males; however, there were no differences between obese and lean females. Lean males had higher activity than lean females; but obese males and females had similar enzyme activities. These changes in enzyme activity can be accounted for by the changes in GT-9.0 concentration measured by HPLC. Lung and testes cytosols were also assayed for GST isozyme concentrations. No differences in any isozyme concentration were found between the sexes or the genotypes in the lung or between genotypes in the testes.
BACKGROUND ::: Exposure of Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells to fractionated x irradiation in vitro has led to expression of a distinctive multiple-drug-resistant phenotype. This phenotype is characterized by overexpression of P-glycoprotein without an increase in P-glycoprotein messenger RNA or gene amplification; increased glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity; and resistance to vincristine, colchicine, and etoposide but not to doxorubicin. ::: ::: ::: PURPOSE ::: To investigate whether this phenotype is dominant or recessive, we established intraspecific hybrids by fusion of x-ray-treated, drug-resistant CHO cells (DXR-10I or DXR-10II) with drug-sensitive CHO cells (E29). ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Drug resistance levels were determined in the wild-type CHO cell line AuxB1, the drug-sensitive E29 line, the x-ray-pretreated lines, and the hybrid lines by colony-forming assay of cells grown in increasing concentrations of colchicine, vincristine, or doxorubicin. The hybrids were characterized by analysis of DNA content, P-glycoprotein expression by Western blotting, GST activity by use of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate, and sensitivity to reversal of resistance to vincristine by exposure to verapamil. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: These hybrids proved resistant to colchicine (two-fold) and vincristine (five- to seven-fold) but not to doxorubicin. After the hybrids were exposed to verapamil, vincristine cytotoxicity was increased 10- to 12-fold. The hybrid lines exhibited levels of P-glycoprotein comparable to those of the unfused x-ray-treated parent cell line, suggesting that P-glycoprotein overexpression is a dominant trait in these hybrid lines. Interpretation of the role of increased GST activity in these hybrids was inconclusive because of the very high levels of GST in the drug-sensitive cell-fusion partner. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: The multiple-drug-resistant phenotype following x-ray treatment of CHO cells in vitro was dominantly expressed. Overall, these data are consistent with the hypothesis that this phenotype is a consequence of the dominant genetic alteration resulting from exposure to x irradiation. ::: ::: ::: IMPLICATIONS ::: This work adds weight to our hypothesis that there is a biological basis for the expression of clinical drug resistance in certain patients whose tumors have been previously irradiated.
Mammalian thioredoxin reductases (TrxR) are homodimers, homologous to glutathione reductase (GR), with an essential selenocysteine (SeCys) residue in an extension containing the conserved C-terminal sequence -Gly-Cys-SeCys-Gly. In the oxidized enzyme, we demonstrated two nonflavin redox centers by chemical modification and peptide sequencing: one was a disulfide within the sequence -Cys59-Val-Asn-Val-Gly-Cys64, identical to the active site of GR; the other was a selenenylsulfide formed from Cys497-SeCys498 and confirmed by mass spectrometry. In the NADPH reduced enzyme, these centers were present as a dithiol and a selenolthiol, respectively. Based on the structure of GR, we propose that in TrxR, the C-terminal Cys497-SeCys498 residues of one monomer are adjacent to the Cys59 and Cys64 residues of the second monomer. The reductive half-reaction of TrxR is similar to that of GR followed by exchange from the nascent Cys59 and Cys64 dithiol to the selenenylsulfide of the other subunit to generate the active-site selenolthiol. Characterization of recombinant mutant rat TrxR with SeCys498 replaced by Cys having a 100-fold lower kcat for Trx reduction revealed the C-terminal redox center was present as a dithiol when the Cys59-Cys64 was a disulfide, demonstrating that the selenium atom with its larger radius is critical for formation of the unique selenenylsulfide. Spectroscopic redox titrations with dithionite or NADPH were consistent with the structure model. Mechanisms of TrxR in reduction of Trx and hydroperoxides have been postulated and are compatible with known enzyme activities and the effects of inhibitors, like goldthioglucose and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene.
To better define the role of glutathione (GSH) in cell differentiation, the present study measured GSH concentrations during terminal hL-60 cell differentiation, in the presence and absence of differentiation-inducing agents, and in the presence and absence of GSH altering agents. Interestingly, there was a small transient increase in intracellular GSH levels during dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) or 1α,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (VD3) induced differentiation. This increase coincided with an increase in nitroblue tetrazolium (NBT) reduction capacity, a measure of superoxide anion production, but there was no apparent change in the GSH/glutathione disulfide (GSSG) ratio. Surprisingly, treatment of cells with low doses of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB; 5 μM) or diethylmaleate (DEM; 0.5 mM), which transiently deplete GSH levels to about 40% of control levels, resulted in enhanced differentiation of HL-60 cells exposed to VD3 or all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA), as well as under un-induced conditions (i.e., spontaneous differentiation). Enhanced differentiation occurred when cells were treated with the GSH-depleting agents 4 hours after treatment with differentiation inducers. These findings indicate that intracellular GSH levels are regulated in a complex fashion during HL-60 cell differentiation, and that transient GSH depletion using low doses of CDNB and DEM enhances the differentiation process.
The present results demonstrate that GSH levels are dynamic during HL-60 differentiation, and that treatment with relatively low concentrations of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and diethylmaleate (DEM) results in enhanced differentiation. Taken together, these finding provide additional evidence that intracellular GSH levels play a role in determining differentiation outcomes, and that it may thus contribute to conditions and disease states characterized by abnormal differentiation.
A previous study by us showed that a high dose of H 2 O 2 or the pro-oxidant 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) is able to induce GA production and in the process reduces fungal biomass. However, incubating G. lucidum with low doses of H 2 O 2 and CDNB has no effect on GA and biomass production [19] . These results suggest that cell death is related to GA production in G. lucidum. Therefore, in this study, we have tested the hypothesis that apoptosis signaling is linked to GA biosynthesis. A further aim of this study was to apply this novel approach, the induction cell apoptosis, to enhancing the production of fungal secondary metabolites. In the current study, the fungal mycelium of G. lucidum was incubated with aspirin and cell apoptosis was evaluated. GA production and the expression of genes involved in the biosynthesis of GAs were measured. Important regulators of cell apoptosis, including ROS production and MAPK phosphorylation, were also examined to evaluate their putative roles in apoptosis and GA biosynthesis.
A rat liver mitochondrial-matrix fraction was prepared and shown to have 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene(CDNB)-metabolizing glutathione transferase (GST) activity. Further fractionation by sequential gel filtration, isoelectric focusing or chromatofocusing and hydroxyapatite chromatography yielded three GSTs of pI 9.3, 8.9 and 7.5, none of which bound to a GSH-agarose affinity matrix. Most of the activity was associated with the pl-9.3 form, which was selected for further study. Its activity was tested with the following potential substrates in addition to CDNB: 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, p-nitrobenzyl chloride, trans-4-phenylbut-3-en-2-one, 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)propane, ethacrynic acid, menaphthyl sulphate, cumene hydroperoxide, linoleic acid hydroperoxide and 4-hydroxynon-2-enal. Appreciable activity was obtained only with CDNB and ethacrynic acid (82 and 26,umol/min per mg of protein respectively). The apparent Km for GSH, using 1 mM-CDNB, was 1.9 mm. The enzyme is a dimer of subunit Mr 26 500. It has a free N-terminus, which has enabled the first 33 amino acids to be sequenced. This portion of primary structure has a sequence in common with members of the Theta class of GSTs (eg. 3-6 % identity with subunit 12) and also a sequence which might function as a mitochondrial import signal. It is novel-and has been named 'GST 13-13'.
Mammalian thioredoxin reductases (TrxR) are homodimers, homologous to glutathione reductase (GR), with an essential selenocysteine (SeCys) residue in an extension containing the conserved C-terminal sequence -Gly-Cys-SeCys-Gly. In the oxidized enzyme, we demonstrated two nonflavin redox centers by chemical modification and peptide sequencing: one was a disulfide within the sequence -Cys 59 -Val-Asn-Val-Gly-Cys 64 , identical to the active site of GR; the other was a selenenylsulfide formed from Cys 497 -SeCys 498 and confirmed by mass spectrometry. In the NADPH reduced enzyme, these centers were present as a dithiol and a selenolthiol, respectively. Based on the structure of GR, we propose that in TrxR, the C-terminal Cys 497 -SeCys 498 residues of one monomer are adjacent to the Cys 59 and Cys 64 residues of the second monomer. The reductive half-reaction of TrxR is similar to that of GR followed by exchange from the nascent Cys 59 and Cys 64 dithiol to the selenenylsulfide of the other subunit to generate the active-site selenolthiol. Characterization of recombinant mutant rat TrxR with SeCys 498 replaced by Cys having a 100-fold lower kcat for Trx reduction revealed the C-terminal redox center was present as a dithiol when the Cys 59 -Cys 64 was a disulfide, demonstrating that the selenium atom with its larger radius is critical for formation of the unique selenenylsulfide. Spectroscopic redox titrations with dithionite or NADPH were consistent with the structure model. Mechanisms of TrxR in reduction of Trx and hydroperoxides have been postulated and are compatible with known enzyme activities and the effects of inhibitors, like goldthioglucose and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene.
Glutathione transferases are detoxification enzymes that catalyze the addition of glutathione (GSH) to a wide variety of hydrophobic compounds. Although this group of enzymes has been extensively characterized by crystallographic studies, little is known about their dynamic properties. This study investigates the role of protein dynamics in the mechanism of a human class mu enzyme (GSTM2-2) by characterizing the motional properties of the unliganded enzyme, the enzyme-substrate (GSH) complex, an enzyme-product complex [S-(2,4-dinitrobenzyl)glutathione, GSDNB], and an enzyme-inhibitor complex (S-1-hexylglutathione, GSHEX). The kinetic on- and off-rates for these ligands are 10-20-fold lower than the diffusion limit, suggesting dynamic conformational heterogeneity of the active site. The off-rate of GSDNB is similar to the turnover number for its enzymatic formation, suggesting that product release is rate-limiting when 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene is the substrate. The dynamic properties of GSTM2-2 were investigated over a wide range of time scales using (15)N nuclear spin relaxation, residual dipolar couplings, and amide hydrogen-deuterium exchange rates. These data show that the majority of the protein backbone is rigid on the nanosecond to picosecond time scale for all forms of the enzyme. The presence of motion on the millisecond to microsecond time scale was detected for a small number of residues within the active site. These motions are likely to play a role in facilitating substrate binding and product release. The residual dipolar couplings also show that the conformation of the active site region is more open in solution than in the crystalline environment, further enhancing ligand accessibility to the active site. Amide hydrogen-deuterium exchange rates indicate a reduction in the dynamic properties of several residues near the active site due to the binding of ligand. GSH binding reduces the exchange rate of a number of residues in proximity to its binding site, while GSHEX causes a reduction in amide-exchange rates throughout the entire active site region. The location of the dinitrobenzene (DNB) ring in the GSDNB-GSTM2-2 complex was modeled using chemical shift changes that occur when GSDNB binds to the enzyme. The DNB ring makes a number of contacts with hydrophobic residues in the active site, including Met108. Replacement of Met108 with Ala increases the turnover number of the enzyme by a factor of 1.7.
Abstract The induction of glutathione S -transferases and microsomal oxidases by host plants and allelochemicals was examined in sixth-instar larvae of insecticide-susceptible and resistant strains of the fall armyworm, Spodoptera frugiperda (J. E. Smith). Among 11 host plants studied, parsnip and parsley were the best inducers of glutathione S -transferase, resulting in increases of 39- and 19-fold, respectively, compared with the artificial diet. The inducer in parsnip leaves was identified by mass spectrometry, high-pressure liquid chromatography, gas chromatography, and thin-layer chromatography as xanthotoxin, a furanocoumarin. Xanthotoxin also showed a bimodal effect on the microsomal oxidase systems, increasing cytochrome P -450 content and heptachlor epoxidase activity but inhibiting aldrin epoxidase, biphenyl 4-hydroxylase, and p -chloro- N -methylaniline N -demethylase. Using indole 3-acetonitrile, indole 3-carbinol, and flavone as inducers, the inducing pattern of glutathione S -transferases was the same toward 3,4-dichloronitrobenzene, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, and methyl iodide. Microsomal oxidase and glutathione S -transferase were also inducible by host plants and allelochemicals in larvae of a carbaryl-resistant strain.
Glutathione transferase rGSTM1-1 catalyzes the addition of glutathione (GSH) to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, a reaction in which the chemical step is 60-fold faster than the physical step of product release. The hydroxyl group of Y115, located in the active site access channel, controls the egress of product from the active site. The Y115F mutant enzyme has a k(cat) (72 s(-)(1)) that is 3.6-fold larger than that of the native enzyme (20 s(-)(1)). Crystallographic observations and evidence from amide proton exchange kinetics are consistent with localized increases in the degree of segmental motion of the Y115F mutant that are coupled to the enhanced rate of product release. The loss of hydrogen bonding interactions involving the hydroxyl group of Y115 is reflected in subtle alterations in the backbone position, an increase in B-factors for structural elements that comprise the channel to the active site, and, most dramatically, a loss of well-defined electron density near the site of mutation. The kinetics of amide proton exchange are also enhanced by a factor between 3 and 12 in these regions, providing direct, quantitative evidence for changes in local protein dynamics affecting product release. The enhanced product release rate is proposed to derive from a small shift in the equilibrium population of protein conformers that permit egress of the product from the active site.
The aim of this study was to elucidate the characteristics of glutathione S-transferase(GST)-activating compounds from medicinal plants. Among 265 kinds of medicinal plants, Phellodendron amurense showed the highest GST activity at 174.8%. The GST-activating compound of P. amurense was maximally extracted when treated with distilled water at 30 °C for 12 h. The compound was purified by ultrafiltration, Sephadex G-10 gel filtration chromatography, and reverse-phase HPLC. The purified GST-activating compound from P. amurense was a novel tetrapeptide with an amino acid sequence of Ala-Pro-Trp-Cys and its molecular weight was estimated to be 476 Da. It also displayed a clear detoxicative effect in 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene treated mice at a dosage of mg/kg body weight.
Activities of epoxide hydratase and glutathione (GSH) S-transferase were investigated in subcellular fractions of Drosophila melanogaster, and these activities were compared with analogous enzymic activities in extracts from rat liver. Microsomes of Drosophila were active in the hydratation of styrene oxide catalyzed by epoxide hydratase. The post-microsomal supernatant of Drosophila catalyzed the conjugation of GSH with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. However, GSH S-transferase activity with styrene oxide as the electrophilic substrate was not measurable. The respective specific activities of epoxide hydratase (per mg microsomal protein) and GSH S-transferase (per mg cytosolic protein) were factors of 5- and 10-fold lower than the corresponding activities in rat liver. However, when expressed per gram body weight, activities of both epoxide hydratase and GSH S-transferase were 3 times higher for Drosophila enzymes. The apparent Km values for the two Drosophila enzymes were higher, whereas the apparent Km values were lower, than the values found for the rat-liver enzymes. Among 3 different Drosophila strains (a wild-type, a white eye-color carrying mutant strain and a DDT-resistant strain), preliminary experiments showed no differences as far as these two enzymic activities were concerned. It is concluded that the results obtained in genetic toxicology testing with Drosophila are probably relevant to effects to be expected in mammalian systems with compounds requiring metabolic processes involving the enzymes investigated here.
BACKGROUND ::: Benznidazole (BZL) is the only antichagasic drug available in most endemic countries. Its effect on the expression and activity of drug-metabolizing and transporter proteins has not been studied yet. ::: ::: ::: METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS ::: Expression and activity of P-glycoprotein (P-gp), Multidrug resistance-associated protein 2 (MRP2), Cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4), and Glutathione S-transferase (GST) were evaluated in HepG2 cells after treatment with BZL. Expression was estimated by immunoblotting and real time PCR. P-gp and MRP2 activities were estimated using model substrates rhodamine 123 and dinitrophenyl-S-glutathione (DNP-SG), respectively. CYP3A4 and GST activities were evaluated through their abilities to convert proluciferin into luciferin and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene into DNP-SG, respectively. BZL (200 µM) increased the expression (protein and mRNA) of P-gp, MRP2, CYP3A4, and GSTπ class. A concomitant enhancement of activity was observed for all these proteins, except for CYP3A4, which exhibited a decreased activity. To elucidate if pregnane X receptor (PXR) mediates BZL response, its expression was knocked down with a specific siRNA. In this condition, the effect of BZL on P-gp, MRP2, CYP3A4, and GSTπ protein up-regulation was completely abolished. Consistent with this, BZL was able to activate PXR, as detected by reporter gene assay. Additional studies, using transporter inhibitors and P-gp-knock down cells, demonstrated that P-gp is involved in BZL extrusion. Pre-treatment of HepG2 cells with BZL increased its own efflux, as a consequence of P-gp up-regulation. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE ::: Modifications in the activity of biotransformation and transport systems by BZL may alter the pharmacokinetics and efficiency of drugs that are substrates of these systems, including BZL itself.
To elucidate drug deposition and metabolism in cultured marine fishes, in a previous study we isolated and purified the GSTs (glutathione S-transferases) from the hepatopancreas of the red sea bream Pagrus major that contained 25 and 28 kDa GST subunits. The 25 kDa GST subunits encoded by two genes (GSTA1 and GSTA2) have been identified as Alpha-class GSTs. In the present study, we performed the molecular cloning and characterization of the GSTR1 gene encoding the 28 kDa GST subunit from the Pa. major hepatopancreas. The nucleotide sequence of GSTR1 was composed of an ORF (open reading frame) of 675 bp encoding a protein of 225 residues with a predicted molecular mass of 25.925 Da. A search of the BLAST protein database revealed that the deduced amino acid sequence of GSTR1 was structurally similar to that of GSTs derived from other fishes such as largemouth bass (Micropterus salmoides) and plaice (Pleuronectes platessa). The genomic DNA containing the GSTR1 gene was found to consist of six exons and five introns quite distinct from mammalian Theta-class GSTs. We have purified and characterized the recombinant GSTR1 enzyme (pmGSTR1-1) which showed activity only towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, although it had no detectable activity towards cumene hydroperoxide, 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, ethacrynic acid, 4-hydroxynonenal and p-nitrobenzyl chloride. Moreover, pmGSTR1-1 revealed remarkable heat instability (melting temperature Tm=30.3±0.11 °C). Collectively, our results indicated that the characteristic GST genes including GSTR1 have been conserved and functional in fishes. Therefore we designate them ‘Rho-class’, a new class of GSTs.
Abstract Tobacco budworm, Heliothis virescens, larvae were collected from wild velvet leaf in Macon Ridge (LA) where insecticide resistance in cotton was previously reported. The initial resistance levels were 58.0-fold for thiodicarb and 16.0-fold for cypermethrin compared to a susceptible laboratory population. Selection of this Macon Ridge population with thiodicarb on cotton increased resistance for thiodicarb to 172.9-fold and resulted in cross-resistance for cypermethrin to 161.3-fold compared to the susceptible control. Thiodicarb-selected Macon Ridge budworms were also resistant to methyl parathion (7.6-fold), profenofos (59.9-fold), and azinphosmethyl (>38.8-fold). Cytochrome P450 metabolism of p -nitroanisole was elevated 30.1-, 16.8-, and 18.8-fold in midgut, fat body, and carcass, respectively, of the selected Macon Ridge budworms. The P450 content was also increased. Ester hydrolysis of 1-naphthyl acetate and p -nitrophenyl acetate as well as 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene glutathione S -transferase activity were elevated approximately 2-fold with some variability among the specific tissues examined. Piperonyl butoxide increased thiodicarb toxicity by 14.8-fold, methyl parathion by 9.3-fold, and cypermethrin by 19.4-fold. S,S,S -Tributylphosphorothioate increased thiodicarb toxicity by 14.5-fold, methyl parathion by 6.6-fold, and profenofos by 7.2-fold. These results suggests that both cytochrome P450 and esterase play an important role in tobacco budworm resistance and cross-resistance between carbamates, organophosphates, and pyrethroids. Acetylthiocholine hydrolysis was 3.4- and 3.5-fold insensitive to paraoxon and methomyl, respectively, in the thiodicarb-selected Macon Ridge strain. Microassays based on p -nitroanisole and p -nitrophenyl acetate metabolism were successfully used to diagnose resistance in field populations of the tobacco budworm in different geographical areas of the U.S.
Abstract The gene coding for glutathione S -transferase (GST) has been isolated from the Mytilus edulis hepatopancreas. Open reading frame analysis indicated that the M. edulis GST (meGST) gene encodes a protein of 206 amino acid residues with a calculated molecular mass of 23.68 kDa. The deduced amino acid sequence showed high sequence similarity with the sequence of the pi class GST. The meGST was expressed in Escherichia coli , and the recombinant meGST was purified by affinity chromatography and characterized. The recombinant meGST exhibited high activity towards the substrates ethacrynic acid (ECA) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). Kinetic analysis with respect to CDNB as substrate gave a K m of 0.68 mM and a V max of 0.10 mmol/min per mg protein. The recombinant meGST had a maximum activity at approximately pH 8.5, and its optimum temperature was 39 °C. The predicted three-dimensional structure of the meGST revealed the N-terminal domain possesses a thioredoxin fold and the six helices of the C-terminal domain make a α-helical bundle. These features indicate that the meGST belongs to pi class GST.
The formation of S-nitrosoglutathione (GSNO) from amyl nitrite and n-butyl nitrite was studied in rat liver microsomes, employing N-ethylmaleimide (MalNEt) as an activator and indomethacin as an inhibitor of microsomal glutathione S-transferase (GST). Rates were compared with GST activity measured with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as a substrate. MalNEt stimulated GST activity and the formation of GSNO from amyl nitrite and n-butyl nitrite about 10-fold. Increasing concentrations of indomethacin inhibited both reactions in parallel. N-Acetyl-L-cysteine but not L-cysteine could substitute for GSH. It is concluded that rat liver microsomal GST catalyses the formation of GSNO from amyl nitrite and n-butyl nitrite. The activity of the MalNEt-stimulated microsomal GST is calculated to be about 17 units/mg of enzyme with the alkyl nitrites and about 16 units/mg of enzyme with CDNB as a substrate, assuming that 3% of microsomal protein is GST. These rates are comparable with those obtained for cytosolic GSTs. Thus microsomal GST may play a significant role in the metabolism of alkyl nitrites in biological membranes.
The present study is aimed to elucidate the changes in glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity and GST subunit components in primary cultured rat hepatocytes. Enzyme activity was measured with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as cosubstrate. The activity decreased at 48 hr, and subsequently increased and returned to levels initially observed at 12 hr by 120 hr. Phenobarbital caused an induction of GST activity in culture at 72 and 168 hr. Immunocytochemical studies were performed using a peroxidase-anti-peroxidase technique with three polyclonal antibodies: anti-Ya, Yb1 and Yp. With anti-Ya, hepatocytes were persistently positive up to 144 hr in cell culture. With anti-Yb1, hepatocytes were positive at 24 hr, though positivity then gradually decreased. On the other hand, with anti-Yp, cells were almost negative at 48 hr and became obviously positive at 96 hr. Immunoelectron microscopy with anti-Yb1 using the avidin-biotin ferritin method revealed ferritin particles in the ribosomes on endoplasmic reticulum as well as in the free cytoplasmic space. In conclusion, the GST subunit components are in a state of dynamic change in cultured rat hepatocytes, and overall time-dependent increase in the total activity of the enzyme can be accounted for by increased expression of the Yp subunit. Finally, the intracellular localization of Yb1 subunit was clarified in the present report.
Macrophage-specific metalloelastase (MME) hydrolyzes elastin and other matrix proteins and plays an important physiological role in tissue remodeling and pathological tissue destruction. We have examined the effects of diethylmaleate (DEM), an electrophilic agent that reacts with sulfhydryls, on the expression of MME mRNA in mouse peritoneal macrophages. Quantification of MME mRNA by Northern blot analysis revealed that basal mRNA levels were quite low in freshly isolated cells, although mRNA levels increased markedly and reached a steady level within 12 h when cells were cultured in a serum-supplemented RPMI 1640 medium. When macrophages were challenged with DEM at 0.05-1.0 mM for 8 h the expression of the MME gene was enhanced further. In the presence of 0.1 mM DEM, the level of the MME mRNA increased 2-fold compared to the control levels after 6-9 h and decreased to control levels in 24 h. Other electrophilic agents, catechol and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, also enhanced MME gene expression. However, oxidative stress agents such as hydrogen peroxide, menadione, paraquat (an O-2 generator), sodium arsenite and cadmium chloride had no effect on MME gene expression. These results indicate that the electrophilic agents selectively enhance the expression of MME mRNA during primary culture of the macrophages.
The effects of aging on cytosolic glutathione S-transferase activities were evaluated with liver and lung cytosol from male and female Fischer 344 rats 3, 12, and 24 months of age. Age-related changes were tissue-, sex-, and substrate-specific. With liver and lung cytosol from both males and females, rates of metabolism of 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)propane and p-nitrobenzyl chloride were lower in the old group than in the young group; however, patterns of decrease differed with tissue and sex. With 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, metabolism was affected by aging only in liver and lung cytosol from males. Finally, with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, metabolic rates were altered during aging only with liver cytosol from females. However, the apparent Km was higher with liver cytosol from old males; those values from lung cytosol of males and liver or lung cytosol from females were unchanged. These data indicate that changes in the cytosolic glutathione S-transferase isozymes occurred during aging.
Of the glutathione S-transferases from the New Zealand grass grub (Costelytra zealandica) active in conjugating the model substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, the most active was isolated in a functionally homogeneous form. This had an isoelectric point of 8.7. Preliminary evidence suggests that it is a homodimer with subunits of Mr 23 500. The dependence of the enzyme-catalysed reaction on substrate concentration was analysed in terms of the rate equation characteristic of Ordered Bi Bi or Rapid-Equilibrium Random mechanisms. Evidence was found for a critical ionizing event at pH 9.3 at 37 degrees C. This event appears to involve a twofold change in charge on the enzyme, which may be the result of co-operative ionizations rather than independent ionizations. This appears to affect neither the binding of the aromatic substrate to the enzyme, nor the maximum catalytic velocity of the enzyme-catalysed reaction. The variation of the kinetics with temperature was studied. Apparent thermodynamic parameters characteristic of the reaction were derived. The possible relevance of the temperature-dependence of the enzyme-catalysed reaction in vivo is discussed.
The cAMP pathway is a universal signaling pathway regulating many cellular processes including metabolic routes, growth and differentiation. However, its effects on xenobiotic biotransformation and transport systems are poorly characterized. The effect of cAMP on expression and activity of GST and MRP2 was evaluated in Caco-2 cells, a model of intestinal epithelium. Cells incubated with the cAMP permeable analog dibutyryl cyclic AMP (db-cAMP: 1,10,100 μM) for 48 h exhibited a dose–response increase in GST class α and MRP2 protein expression. Incubation with forskolin, an activator of adenylyl cyclase, confirmed the association between intracellular cAMP and upregulation of MRP2. Consistent with increased expression of GSTα and MRP2, db-cAMP enhanced their activities, as well as cytoprotection against the common substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Pretreatment with protein kinase A (PKA) inhibitors totally abolished upregulation of MRP2 and GSTα induced by db-cAMP. In silico analysis together with experiments consisting of treatment with db-cAMP of Caco-2 cells transfected with a reporter construct containing CRE and AP-1 sites evidenced participation of these sites in MRP2 upregulation. Further studies involving the transcription factors CREB and AP-1 (c-JUN, c-FOS and ATF2) demonstrated increased levels of total c-JUN and phosphorylation of c-JUN and ATF2 by db-cAMP, which were suppressed by a PKA inhibitor. Co-immunoprecipitation and ChIP assay studies demonstrated that db-cAMP increased c-JUN/ATF2 interaction, with further recruitment to the region of the MRP2 promoter containing CRE and AP-1 sites. We conclude that cAMP induces GSTα and MRP2 expression and activity in Caco-2 cells via the PKA pathway, thus regulating detoxification of specific xenobiotics.
Biochemical assays for detecting metabolic resistance generally employ generic substrates that are recognised by most or all members of the enzyme families. For example, GST activity is usually measured using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB), and, more recently, monoclorobimane [7, 8] . Unlike assays to detect elevated esterase activity, which can be read by eye, the current GST assays require a spectrophotometer that can measure absorbance in the UV range, or fluorimeter with multiple emission/excitation channels [8, 9] , limiting their applicability in the field. Potentially greater sensitivity and specificity could be achieved if substrates that were specifically recognised by the enzyme(s) responsible for insecticide metabolism were employed.
Key words: glutathione, glycation, glyoxalase, methylglyoxal, oxidative stress. Abbreviations used: AGE, advanced glycation end-product; CDNB, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene; SpBrBzGSH, S-p-bromobenzylglutathione; SpBrBzGSHCp2, S-p-bromobenzylglutathione cyclopentyl diester; SpBrBzGSHEt2, S-p-bromobenzylglutathione ethyl diester; CEdG, N2-(1-carboxyethyl)deoxyguanosine; CEL, N ε -(1-carboxyethyl)lysine; dG-MG, 6,7-dihydro-6,7-dihydroxy-6-methylimidazo-[2,3-b]purine-9(8)one; dG- MG2, N2,deoxyguanosine; MG-H1, N δ -(5-hydro-5-methyl-4-imidazolon-2-yl)ornithine; MOLD, methylglyoxal-
Abstract Glutathione S -transferases (GSTs) are known to catalyze conjugations by facilitating the nucleophilic attack of the sulfhydryl group of endogenous reduced glutathione on electrophilic centers of a vast range of xenobiotic compounds, including insecticides and acaricides. Elevated levels of GSTs in the two-spotted spider mite, Tetranychus urticae Koch, have recently been associated with resistance to acaricides such as abamectin [Pestic. Biochem. Physiol. 72 (2002) 111]. GSTs from acaricide susceptible and resistant strains of T. urticae were purified by glutathione–agarose affinity chromatography and characterized by their Michaelis–Menten kinetics towards artificial substrates, i.e., 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and monochlorobimane. The inhibitory potential of azocyclotin, dicumarol, and plumbagin was low (IC 50 values > 100 μM), whereas ethacrynic acid was much more effective, exhibiting an IC 50 value of 4.5 μM. GST activity is highest in 2–4-day-old female adults and dropped considerably with progressing age. Furthermore, molecular characteristics were determined for the first time of a GST from T. urticae , such as molecular weight (SDS–PAGE) and N-terminal amino acid sequencing (Edman degradation). Glutathione–agarose affinity purified GST from T. urticae strain WI has a molecular weight of 22.1 kDa. N-terminal amino acid sequencing revealed a homogeneity of ≈50% to insect GSTs closely related to insect class I GSTs (similar to mammalian Delta class GSTs).
Limited proteolysis of glutathione transferase P1-1 (GSTP1-1) by chymotrypsin generates a 34-kDa GSTP1-1 fragment (a dimer of the 17-kDa subunit composed by residues 48-207) containing the whole C-terminal domain and a part (about 15%) of the N-terminal domain (residues 48-76, i.e., the structural elements beta 3, beta 4, and alpha C). The structural and functional properties of this large fragment have been investigated by analyzing its binding properties to 2-p-toluidinylnaphthalene-6-sulfonate (TNS) extrinsic probe, the TNS displacement technique, and the molecular modeling approach. The results obtained indicated that the 34-kDa GSTP1-1 fragment maintains an hydrophobic pocket with the same structural properties of the corresponding GSTP1-1 hydrophobic binding site. In addition, the 34-kDa GSTP1-1 binds a number of hydrophobic compounds such as 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, hemin, and bilirubin with the same affinity of the native enzyme. Being structurally and functionally autonomous, this fragment, mostly constituted by domain II, appears as an independent folding unit in the protein. Nevertheless, in the entire native protein, interdomain interactions occur and are responsible for the major solvent exposure of the H-site in the presence of glutathione.
BACKGROUND ::: Curcuma xanthorrhiza is a native Indonesian plant and traditionally utilized for a range of illness including liver damage, hypertension, diabetes, and cancer. ::: ::: ::: OBJECTIVE ::: The study determined the effects of C. xanthorrhiza extracts (ethanol and aqueous) and their constituents (curcumene and xanthorrhizol) on UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) and glutathione transferase (GST) activities. ::: ::: ::: MATERIALS AND METHODS ::: The inhibition studies were evaluated both in rat liver microsomes and in human recombinant UGT1A1 and UGT2B7 enzymes. p-nitrophenol and beetle luciferin were used as the probe substrates for UGT assay while 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as the probe for GST assay. The concentrations of extracts studied ranged from 0.1 to 1000 μg/mL while for constituents ranged from 0.01 to 500 μM. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: In rat liver microsomes, UGT activity was inhibited by the ethanol extract (IC50 =279.74 ± 16.33 μg/mL). Both UGT1A1 and UGT2B7 were inhibited by the ethanol and aqueous extracts with IC50 values ranging between 9.59-22.76 μg/mL and 110.71-526.65 μg/Ml, respectively. Rat liver GST and human GST Pi-1 were inhibited by ethanol and aqueous extracts, respectively (IC50 =255.00 ± 13.06 μg/mL and 580.80 ± 18.56 μg/mL). Xanthorrhizol was the better inhibitor of UGT1A1 (IC50 11.30 ± 0.27 μM) as compared to UGT2B7 while curcumene did not show any inhibition. For GST, both constituents did not show any inhibition. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: These findings suggest that C. xanthorrhiza have the potential to cause herb-drug interaction with drugs that are primarily metabolized by UGT and GST enzymes. ::: ::: ::: SUMMARY ::: Findings from this study would suggest which of Curcuma xanthorrhiza extracts and constituents that would have potential interactions with drugs which are highly metabolized by UGT and GST enzymes. Further clinical studies can then be designed if needed to evaluate the in vivo pharmacokinetic relevance of these interactions Abbreviations Used: BSA: Bovine serum albumin, CAM: Complementary and alternative medicine, cDNA: Complementary deoxyribonucleic acid, CDNB: 1-Chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, CuSO4.5H2O: Copper(II) sulfate pentahydrate, CXEE: Curcuma xanthorrhiza ethanol extract, CXAE: Curcuma xanthorrhiza aqueous extract, GC-MS: Gas chromatography-mass spectroscopy, GSH: Glutathione, GST: Glutathione S-transferase, KCl: Potassium chloride, min: Minutes, MgCl2: Magnesium chloride, mg/mL: Concentration (weight of test substance in milligrams per volume of test concentration), mM: Milimolar, Na2CO3: Sodium carbonate, NaOH: Sodium hydroxide, nmol: nanomol, NSAIDs: Non-steroidal antiinflammatory drug, p-NP: para-nitrophenol, RLU: Relative light unit, SEM: Standard error of mean, UDPGA: UDP-glucuronic acid, UGT: UDP-glucuronosyltransferase.
In the present studies we have compared the levels of glutathione (GSH) and GSH-related enzymes in lung tumors and corresponding normal tissues obtained from the same individuals. We have also immunologically quantitated the relative amounts of glutathione S-transferase pi (or GST-P) type antigen in tumors and adjacent normal tissues from five patients. GST activities towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and ethacrynic acid were found to be elevated in tumors from two out of five patients (patients #1 and 4), whereas the activity towards these substrates was markedly suppressed in the tumor tissue from one of the patients (#5). Immunotitration and Western blot studies using antibodies raised against pi-type GST isoenzymes of human lung and placenta indicated induction of GST pi-type isoenzyme in tumors from patients #1 and 4 and suppression of this isoenzyme in tumor from patient #5. The tumors from patients #2 and 3 did not show any increase in GST activity or GST pi-type antigen. Except for the tumor from patient #5, the GSH content was higher in the tumors from other patients. GSH reductase activity was found to be elevated in tumors of all the patients examined in this study. These results indicate that GSH and GSH related enzymes are differentially altered in lung tumors and GSH levels and GST pi- or GST-P-type isoenzyme(s) are not uniformly elevated in all tumors.
Abstract The uptake, recycling, and function of ascorbic acid was evaluated in cultured U-937 monocytic cells. Dehydroascorbic acid, the two-electron oxidized form of the vitamin, was taken up on the glucose transporter and reduced to ascorbate to a much greater extent than ascorbate itself was accumulated by the cells. In contrast to dehydroascorbic acid, ascorbate entered the cells on a sodium- and energy-dependent transporter. Intracellular ascorbate enhanced the transfer of electrons across the cell membrane to extracellular ferricyanide. Rates of ascorbate-dependent ferricyanide reduction were saturable, fivefold greater than basal rates, and facilitated by intracellular recycling of ascorbate. Whereas reduction of dehydroascorbic acid concentrations above 400 μM consumed reduced glutathione (GSH), even severe GSH depletion by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was without effect on the ability of the cells to reduce concentrations of dehydroascorbic acid likely to be in the physiologic range (
Glutathione S-transferases (GST) detoxify many electrophilic xenobiotics, including several volatile organic compounds and pesticides. The GST activity for the conjugation of several xenobiotic substances was isolated from needles of Norway spruce (Picea abies L. Karst.) trees from a forest decline stand in the northern alps. Trees that exhibited different degrees of damage were selected from several stands in an altitude profile. The GST activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) in crude protein extracts of needles showed a seasonal pattern with highest activity during summer. The GST activity exhibited a strong dependence on the altitude of the stand showing highest activities in trees growing in the valley and lowest activities in trees growing in the summit regions of the mountain. When cytosolic GST from needles of healthy and damaged trees was purified, trees of healthy appearance exhibited three distinct GST isozymes with activities for the conjugation of CDNB and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB), whereas severely defoliated trees exhibited four GSTs with additional activity for the conjugation of ethacrynic acid. The main GST isozymes catalyzing the conjugation of CDNB differed in molecular weight, isoelectric point and catalytic properties between damaged and healthy trees.
Our laboratory has recently developed the monoclonal antibody 4F7 which recognizes a molecule on dendritic cells in the dermis of mice that is upregulated after application of contact allergens in vivo. Furthermore, this antibody detects an antigen on dendritic cells in spleen, lymph nodes and colon. In order to study the influence of contact allergens on the surface expression of the 4F7 molecules on dendritic cells, FACScan analysis of splenic dendritic cells was carried out after in vitro application of contact allergens. Freshly isolated splenic dendritic cells were found to be positive for 4F7, 33D1, N418 (CD11c) and MHC class II. After overnight culture the expression of the dendritic cell-specific molecules 4F7 and 33D1 was decreased. This downregulation was not inhibited by the addition of the cytokines TNF-α or GM-CSF during in vitro culture. However, in vitro treatment of freshly isolated dendritic cells with the contact allergen 2,4-dinitrofluorobenzene prevented this downregulation of the 4F7 surface molecules. The same effect was observed after treatment with other contact allergens (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene or potassium dichromate). Treatment with the irritant substance sodium dodecyl sulphate, and lectins concanavalin and lipopolysaccharide or the phorbol ester PMA did not prevent the downregulation of 4F7 and 33D1. Moreover, the influence of contact allergens on the expression of the molecules 4F7 and 33D1 was not inhibited by the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide. No effects of contact sensitizers were detectable on the expression of MHC class II molecules or the costimulatory molecules B7 and heat-stable antigen. Our results show a specific stabilizing effect of contact allergens on the dendritic cell-specific molecules 4F7 and 33D1 independent ofde novo protein synthesis.
Abstract In this study, we determined whether minocycline may protect rat cortical cultures against neurotoxicity induced by sphingomyelinase/ceramide and explored the underlying mechanisms. We found that minocycline exerted strong neuroprotective effects against toxicity induced by bacterial sphingomyelinase and synthetic C2 ceramide. Minocycline enhanced the production of nitric oxide (NO) with resultant increases in cellular cGMP content. Consistently, minocycline-dependent neuroprotection was abolished by the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor l -NG-nitroarginine methyl ester (L-NAME) and the soluble guanylate cyclase (sGC) inhibitor 1 H-(1,2,4)oxadiazolo(4,3-a)quinoxalin-1-one (ODQ). Western blotting revealed that minocycline restored the expression levels of cGMP-dependent protein kinase (PKG)-1, antioxidative thioredoxin-1, and antiapoptotic Bcl-2 that were down-regulated by bacterial sphingomyelinase. Accordingly, the PKG inhibitor KT5823, the thioredoxin reductase inhibitor 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB), and a Bcl-2 inhibitor significantly abolished the minocycline neuroprotection. The minocycline-dependent restoration of Bcl-2 was abolished by L-NAME, ODQ, and KT5823, but not by DNCB, suggesting the involvement of NO/sGC/PKG but not thioredoxin. Furthermore, minocycline-dependent recovery of thioredoxin-1 was PKG-independent. Taken together, our results indicate that minocycline protects rat cortical neurons against bacterial sphingomyelinase/ceramide toxicity via an NO/cGMP/PKG pathway with induction of Bcl-2 and PKG-independent stimulation of thioredoxin-1.
The use of direct response of animals to environmental challenges by production of biomarkers is a better tool to assess environmental pollution than the conventional methods. This study aimed to measure Glutathione-S-transferase (GST) in earthworms as tools for assessing heavy metal pollution in abattoir soil. Five (5) replicates each of earthworm species ( Libyodrilus violaceous , Eudrilus eugeniae and Alma millsoni ), soil and rumen waste samples were collected from three (3) abattoir sites (Lafenwa, Gbonogun and Madojutimi abattoirs), and a control site located within Federal University of Agriculture Abeokuta, beside an undisturbed stream with no rumen waste. Heavy metal (Cu, Zn, Pb, Cd, Co, Cr, Ni and Mn) concentrations in rumen waste, abattoir soils and earthworm tissues were determined using Atomic Absorption Spectrophotometer. The pH and organic matter (OM) concentrations of the rumen waste and abattoir soils were determined by standard methods. GST activities in the earthworm tissues were determined through the conjugation of 1 mM reduced glutathione (GSH) with 1 mM 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). The rumen waste recorded significantly higher (p ≤ 0.05) % OM, heavy metal concentrations and pH level than in their respective abattoir soils. The mean heavy metal concentrations of Cu, Zn, Pb, Cd and Mn were highest in the tissue of earthworm species obtained from Lafenwa abattoir. A significantly (p ≤ 0.05) higher GST activities were recorded in the tissue of earthworm species obtained from Lafenwa and Gbonogun abattoirs. Libyodrilous violaceus obtained from Lafenwa abattoir recorded the highest GST activity (8.47±1.39) in their tissue followed by the ones from Gbonogun abattoir (8.21±0.85). A significant (p ≤ 0.05) positive correlations was observed between GST activities in earthworm tissues and heavy metal concentrations. GST activities can therefore be used to assess the level of heavy metal pollution in abattoir soils.
Abstract Seven possible nonoxidative mechanisms which might contribute to resistance to organophosphate insecticides have been examined in larvae and adults from field isolates of the sheep blow fly, Lucilia cuprina, selected for resistance to diazinon. The basal resistance mechanism appears to be an altered esterase (the E3 esterase). In addition, in adults, there is a strong correlation between resistance to diazinon and the glutathione S -transferase activity with 3,4-dichloronitrobenzene as substrate. This correlation is marginal in the larvae of this species. There was also a marginal negative correlation between the resistance to diazinon and the rate of inactivation of acetylcholine esterase by tetrachlorvinphos. No significant degree of correlation was found between resistance to diazinon and total esterase, with either α- or β-naphthyl actetate as substrate, total acetylcholine esterase activity, or glutathione S -transferase using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate. Significant correlations were found between resistance to diazinon and that to other organophosphate insecticides including chlorpyrifos, propetamphos, and dichlofenthion. In light of these correlations, it is concluded that the same basic mechanisms of resistance are operating with respect to all of these insecticides. Since the field isolates were sampled over a wide geographical range and over several years, it appears that the mechanisms of resistance are stable and widely distributed.
Objective: The purpose of this study was to characterize the human term placental villous tissue explant culture model as a tool to study the formation and efflux of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) conjugate 2,4-dinitrophenyl-Sglutathione (DNP-SG) as a model system for phase II metabolism and ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter-mediated cellular efflux. Methods: Placental tissue samples were obtained after cesarean section following normal pregnancies (n=9). Cultured villous tissue was monitored up to 48 h to study the effect of time in culture on biochemical parameters, formation and efflux of DNP-SG in the absence or presence of ATPase inhibitor sodium orthovanadate and the protein expression of ABC transporters - multidrug resistance associated protein 2 (MRP2), P-glycoprotein (P-gp), breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP), and enzyme glutathione-S-transferase isoform P1-1 (GSTP1-1). Results: Villous tissue structure, tissue viability and expression of BCRP, GSTP1-1 remained unchanged, while expression of MRP2, P-gp and total tissue glutathione decreased with time in culture. Tissue integrity was unchanged up to 24 h but declined at 48 h. However, DNP-SG formation, DNP-SG efflux, and the extent of inhibition of DNP-SG efflux by sodium orthovanadate showed only minor changes through 48 h. Sodium orthovanadate decreased DNP-SG efflux, consistent with inhibition of apical ABC transporters. Conclusion: The results support the use of the cultured human term placental villous tissue explants model to study the coordinated function of GSTP1-1 and apical ABC transporters in the formation and efflux of the model substrate DNP-SG.
Abstract An anionic glutathione-S-transferase from human liver cytosol has been purified on the basis of its affinity for the primary bile acid, cholic acid. It represents 18% of the total 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene conjugating activity in the liver, has an isoelectric point of 4·6 and is made up of two identical subunits of molecular weight 23,000. The enzymes bile acid binding properties are compared with the cationic glutathione-S-transferases.
Abstract The human glutathione S -transferase (GST) P1 alleles coding for Val 105 ( hGSTP1*B and/or P1*C ) are over- represented in lung cancer patients. However, the corresponding recombinant Val 105 protein variants tend to show higher catalytic activity than the Ile 105 variants towards bay-region diol epoxides that are thought to be etiological agents in lung cancer. We have examined 29 normal human lung samples with respect to several factors that could confound relationships between hGSTP1 allele type and cancer susceptibility, namely, inter-individual and allele-specific variation of hGSTP1 expression, and differences between the catalytic properties of the native and recombinant hGSTP1-1 variant protein products. hGSTP1 expression varied 7-fold among individuals but was independent of hGSTP1*A, P1*B or P1*C allele type. hGST subunits A1, A2, M1 and M3 were minor components, similarly variable in expression. Despite this variability of expression, the levels of hGSTP1 expression linearly correlated with those of the next most highly expressed GST, hGSTM3, even though the genes for these GSTs are on different chromosomes. Differences between the native protein variants, using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and (+)-anti-benzo[ a ]pyrene diolepoxide as substrates, were more marked than those between the recombinant variants. However, the order of differential catalytic specificity was the same for native and recombinant variants. Neither the expression of the hGSTP1 alleles nor the catalytic properties of the protein variants appears to provide a simple mechanistic rationale for the observed over-representation of the hGSTP1*B and/or 1*C alleles in lung cancer.
Accumulating evidence suggests that activated mast cells are involved in contact hypersensitivity, although the precise mechanisms of their activation are still not completely understood. We investigated the potential of common experimental allergens to induce mast cell activation using murine bone marrow-derived cultured mast cells and rat peritoneal mast cells. Among these allergens, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 1-fluoro-2,4-dinirobenzene (DNFB) were found to induce degranulation of rat peritoneal mast cells. DNFB-induced degranulation is accompanied by cytosolic Ca2+ mobilization and is significantly inhibited by pertussis toxin, U73122 (a phospholipase C inhibitor), and BAPTA (a Ca2+ chelator), raising the possibility that DNFB acts on the G protein-coupled receptors and activates Gi , which induces activation of phospholipase C, as well as known mast cell secretagogues, such as compound 48/80. DNFB could induce mast cell degranulation in the absence of serum proteins and IgE. Structure-activity relationship analyses revealed an inverse correlation between the degree of degranulation and the electron density of the C1 carbon of the DNFB derivatives. These findings raise a possibility that DNFB functions as a potent contact allergen through induction of cutaneous mast cell degranulation.
Oxidative stress mediates positive and negative effects on physiological processes. Recent reports show that H(2)O(2) induces phosphorylation and activation of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) through an Akt-phosphorylation-dependent pathway. In this study, we assessed activation of eNOS and Akt by determining their phosphorylation status. Whereas moderate levels of H(2)O(2) (100 microM) activated the Akt/eNOS pathway, higher levels (500 microM) did not, suggesting differential effects by differing levels of oxidative stress. We then found that two pro-oxidants with activity on sulfhydryl groups, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and diethyl maleate (DEM), blocked the phosphorylation events induced by 100 microM H(2)O(2). GSH was not a target thiol in this system because buthionine sulfoximine did not inhibit this phosphorylation. However, down-regulation of cell membrane surface and intracellular free thiols was associated with the inhibition of phosphorylation, suggesting that oxidation of non-GSH thiols inhibits the H(2)O(2)-induced phosphorylation of eNOS and Akt. DTT reversed the inhibitory effects of CDNB and DEM on Akt phosphorylation and concomitantly restored cell surface thiol levels more efficiently than it restored intracellular thiols, suggesting a more prominent role for the former. Similarly, DEM and CDNB inhibited TNF-alpha-induced Akt and eNOS phosphorylation, suggesting that thiol modification is involved in eNOS inductive pathways. Our findings suggest that eNOS activation is exquisitely sensitive to regulation by redox and that cell surface thiols, other than glutathione, regulate signal transduction leading to phosphorylation of Akt and eNOS.
Abstract The dipole moment orientation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene has been determined by a new method. The angle between the dipole moment (μ) and the C 6 -H 6 bond was found to be 19.5 ± 9°.
Summary Glutathione S-transferases (GST) detoxify many electrophilic xenobiotics, including several volatile organic compounds and pesticides. The GST activity for the conjugation of several xenobiotic substances was isolated from needles of Norway spruce (Picea abies L. Karst.) trees from a forest decline stand in the northern alps. Trees that exhibited different degrees of damage were selected from several stands in an altitude profile. The GST activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) in crude protein extracts of needles showed a seasonal pattern with highest activity during summer. The GST activity exhibited a strong dependence on the altitude of the stand showing highest activities in trees growing in the valley and lowest activities in trees growing in the summit regions of the mountain. When cytosolic GST from needles of healthy and damaged trees was purified, trees of healthy appearance exhibited three distinct GST isozymes with activities for the conjugation of CDNB and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB), whereas severely defoliated trees exhibited four GSTs with additional activity for the conjugation of ethacrynic acid. The main GST isozymes catalyzing the conjugation of CDNB differed in molecular weight, isoelectric point and catalytic properties between damaged and healthy trees.
Glutathione S-transferases (GST, E.C. 2.5.1.18) catalyze the nucleophilic attack of reduced glutathione (GSH) on electrophilic alkylating substrates and are known to act as detoxification enzymes for numerous organic xenobiotics (Frear and Swanson 1973, Lamoureux and Rusness 1989) , including chlorinated nitrobenzenes, diphenyl ethers, thiocarbamates, chlorotriazines. These enzyme activities have been found in more than 30 plant species (see Rusness 1993, Schröder 1993 ). Schröder and Berkau (1993) purified and characterized cytosolic glutathione S-transferases from the needles of healthy Norway spruce trees (Picea abies L. Karst.). They found at least two GST isozymes that differed in physicochemical and catalytic properties. The isozymes were homodimers consisting of two identical subunits with molecular weights of 24 and 26 kD and isoelectric points of 4.3 and 6.0, respectively. Both isozymes conjugated 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB), whereas only one isozyme was able to conjugate the pesticides fluorodifen and alachlor at appreciable rates.
The use of direct response of animals to environmental challenges by production of biomarkers is a better tool to assess environmental pollution than the conventional methods. This study aimed to measure Glutathione-S-transferase (GST) in earthworms as tools for assessing heavy metal pollution in abattoir soil. Five (5) replicates each of earthworm species (Libyodrilus violaceous, Eudrilus eugeniae and Alma millsoni), soil and rumen waste samples were collected from three (3) abattoir sites (Lafenwa, Gbonogun and Madojutimi abattoirs), and a control site located within Federal University of Agriculture Abeokuta, beside an undisturbed stream with no rumen waste. Heavy metal (Cu, Zn, Pb, Cd, Co, Cr, Ni and Mn) concentrations in rumen waste, abattoir soils and earthworm tissues were determined using Atomic Absorption Spectrophotometer. The pH and organic matter (OM) concentrations of the rumen waste and abattoir soils were determined by standard methods. GST activities in the earthworm tissues were determined through the conjugation of 1 mM reduced glutathione (GSH) with 1 mM 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). The rumen waste recorded significantly higher (p ≤ 0.05) % OM, heavy metal concentrations and pH level than in their respective abattoir soils. The mean heavy metal concentrations of Cu, Zn, Pb, Cd and Mn were highest in the tissue of earthworm species obtained from Lafenwa abattoir. A significantly (p ≤ 0.05) higher GST activities were recorded in the tissue of earthworm species obtained from Lafenwa and Gbonogun abattoirs. Libyodrilous violaceus obtained from Lafenwa abattoir recorded the highest GST activity (8.47±1.39) in their tissue followed by the ones from Gbonogun abattoir (8.21±0.85). A significant (p ≤ 0.05) positive correlations was observed between GST activities in earthworm tissues and heavy metal concentrations. GST activities can therefore be used to assess the level of heavy metal pollution in abattoir soils. Rev. Biol. Trop. 64 (2): 779-789. Epub 2016 June 01.
The charge-transfer (CT) reactions had been widely studied spectrophotometrically in the determination of aliphatic and aromatic amines that are easy to be determined based on CT complex formation with some electronacceptors such as chloranil [5] [6] [7] , 2,3-dichloro-5,6-dicyano-1,4-benzoquinone (DDQ) [8] , fluoranil [9] , dinitrobenzene [10] , 1-fluro-2,4-dinitrobenzene [11] , and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene [12] . Most of the previous methods suffer from the lack of sensitivity and selectivity and the estimation of these compounds is applied in organic medium. 7, 7, 8, 8 -Tetracyanoquinodimethane (TCNQ) is strong electron acceptor and applied in the determination of several electron donor drugs containing primary, secondary, or tertiary amino group and the review of the literature in the last decade had been mainly concentrated on the CTcomplexes spectral studies [13] [14] [15] [16] [17] [18] .
Purpose. To study the distribution and expression of glutathione S-transferase isozymes involved in detoxification of endogenously generated toxic products of lipid peroxidation, namely, 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE) in human lens, retina, cornea, iris, ciliary body and to study their kinetic and structural properties.Methods. The authors have previously cloned and sequenced cDNA of mouse mGSTA4-4, which shows high activity towards 4-HNE. They have expressed it in Escherichia coli and have raised antibodies against the recombinant mLSTTA4-4. In the present study, these antibodies were used in Western blot analysis and immunoaffinity chromatography- to study the expression and to purify the human ortholog(s) of mGSTA4-4 from ocular tissues. Results. Western blot analyses of human ocular tissues indicated that a glutathione S-transferases (GST) isozyme immunologically similar to mGSTA4-4 was expressed in cornea, retina, and iris and ciliary body, but not in lens. This isozyme designated as hGST 5.8 was purified to homogeneity from human retina, cornea, and iris and ciliary body by immunoabsorption on immobilized antibodies against mGSTA4-4. The human ortholog of mGSTA4-4, designated as hGST 5.8 purified from all these tissues and pI value of 5.8, subunit Mr value of 25 k and blocked N-terminal. Amino arid sequences of GNBr fragments of hGST 5.8 isozymes of human ocular tissues showed a high degree of primary structure homologies with the corresponding regions of mGSTA4-4. There were noticeable differences in the amino acid sequences of hGST 5.8 of cornea, retina, and iris and ciliary body, suggesting the presence of several closely related hGST 5.8 subunits in the ocular tissues. This heterogeneity was due to tissue-specific expression rather than simple allelic polymorphism. The hGST 5.8 had about sixfold to eightfold higher activity toward 4-hydroxynonenal than 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, or CDNB. The catalytic efficiency (Kcat/Km) of ocular hGST 5.8 for 4-HNE was about 100-fold higher than those for the α, μ, or π classes of GST. In addition, hGST 5.8 expressed glutathione peroxidase activity toward phospholipid hydroperoxides and (GSH-conjugating activity toward 9,10-epoxy stearic acid. Conclusions. The results indicate that hGST 5.8 isozyme(s) distinct from the α, μ, and π classes of GSTs, are differentially expressed in human ocular tissues and may play an important role in protective mechanisms against endogenous toxicants generated during lipid peroxidation
A series of organic azides was synthesized and was tested as inhibitors of purified camel glutathione S-transferases. Enzymes purified from camel liver, lung, and kidney were inhibited reversibly by these compounds in a concentration-dependent pattern. The liver glutathione S-transferase was more sensitive to inhibition by most of these compounds and the lung enzyme was the least affected. The most effective reversible inhibitors of the tested organic azides for the purified camel liver enzyme were alkyl and allyl azides. The inhibition occurred immediately upon adding the inhibitors and remained constant during a further 30-min incubation period. The tested organic azides were found to inhibit the glutathione S-transferase catalyzed conjugation of glutathione with both 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 4-nitrobenzyl chloride and the kinetics of these inhibitions was qualitatively different, being competitive with some inhibitors and noncompetitive with others.
Abstract Administration of clofibrate reduced the maximal excretion rate of bile sulfobromophthalein (BSP) in rats but left that of phenol-3,6-dibromophthalein (DBSP) unchanged. This decrease in liver transport of BSP was due to reduced bile excretion of conjugated BSP. Hepatic uptake and storage of this dye were not impaired. Liver glutathione S -transferase activity in vitro , measured with BSP, 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB) or 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was significantly reduced. This alteration in liver conjugating activity was probably not related to a modification of the hepatic GSH pool, since the GSH level was unchanged or only increased slightly after clofibrate treatment. Detection of this inhibition required at least two daily doses of clofibrate. Inhibition was dose-related and lasted for several days after cessation of the drug. In clofibrate-treated rats, Lineweaver-Burk plots showed a reduced V max for both the BSP and GSH substrates. These results suggest that clofibrate decreases hepatobiliary transport of BSP by lowering glutathione S -transferase activity in the liver.
The biosynthesis of quantum dots has been explored as an alternative to traditional physicochemical methods; however, relatively few studies have determined optimal synthesis parameters. Saccharomyces cerevisiae sequentially treated with sodium selenite and cadmium chloride synthesized CdSe quantum dots in the cytoplasm. These nanoparticles displayed a prominent yellow fluorescence, with an emission maximum of approximately 540 nm. The requirement for glutathione in the biosynthetic mechanism was explored by depleting its intracellular content through cellular treatments with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and buthionine sulfoximine. Synthesis was significantly inhibited by both of these reagents when they were applied after selenite treatment prior to the addition of cadmium, thereby indicating that glutathione contributes to the biosynthetic process. Determining the optimum conditions for biosynthesis revealed that quantum dots were produced most efficiently at entry into stationary phase followed by direct addition of 1 mM selenite for only 6 h and then immediately incubating these cells in fresh growth medium containing 3 mM Cd (II). Synthesis of quantum dots reached a maximum at 84 h of reaction time. Biosynthesis of 800-μg g-1 fresh weight cells was achieved. For the first time, significant efforts have been undertaken to optimize each aspect of the CdSe biosynthetic procedure in S. cerevisiae, resulting in a 70% increased production.
Glutathione transferases (GSTs) are enzymes involved in the resistance of tumor cells to bifunctional alkylating cytostatic drugs. We investigated the melphalan sensitivity together with activity and cellular concentration of GST isoenzymes of human melanoma cell line RPMI 8322 in different phases of the cell cycle. By centrifugal elutriation three cell fractions containing different proportions of cells in the G1 phase were isolated. Melphalan sensitivity was estimated by the colony formation assay. The cell fraction with the largest proportion of G1 cells was more sensitive to the drug than the fractions enriched in S and G2 cells. The GST activity of the cell fractions was measured with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrate and the concentrations of GST P1-1, GST M1-1 and GST A1-1 were quantitated by use of isoenzyme-specific ELISA. The results show that there were less GST activity and lower GST P1-1 and A1-1 concentrations in the G1 cell enriched fraction, demonstrating a cell cycle dependence of GST expression. Thus, the cell fraction most sensitive to melphalan had the highest proportion of G1 cells and displayed the lowest GST activity, suggesting that the cell cycle dependent sensitivity to melphalan may at least partially depend on the expression of GSTs.
Abstract AppppA, ApppGpp, AppppG, ApppG, and ApppA rapidly accumulate to high levels in Salmonella typhimurium following exposure to a variety of oxidizing agents, but not to a variety of other stresses. Among the agents inducing these adenylylated nucleotides are 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, diamide, hydrogen peroxide, t-butyl hydroperoxide, N-ethyl maleimide, iodoacetamide, cadmium chloride, and a variety of quinones. Some of these oxidizing agents cause preferential synthesis of specific adenylylated nucleotides, e.g., N-ethyl maleimide induces ApppA and menadione induces ApppGpp. Our data, as well as other evidence in the literature, strongly suggest that oxidation stress is coupled to adenylylated nucleotide synthesis by aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases. Although adenylylated nucleotides are made by tRNA synthetases in vitro, their synthesis in vivo is not a simple consequence of inhibition of synthetase activity. Compounds that inhibit normal charging by aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases do not result in the synthesis of adenylylated nucleotides, nor do mutations in tRNA synthetase structural genes or tRNA structural, modifying, or processing genes. We propose that the family of adenylylated nucleotides are alarmones signaling the onset of oxidation stress, and that particular ones may be alarmones for specific oxidative stresses, e.g., ApppGpp for oxidative damage to amino acid biosynthesis.
A plasmid vector was constructed that encodes the expression in Escherichia coli of a truncated form of GST2, a human Alpha-class glutathione transferase. The truncated enzyme, GST2del210, has 12 residues deleted from the C-terminus and has the last two residues of the new C-terminal mutated from aspartic acid and glutamic acid to histidine and glycine respectively. GST2del210 has substantially diminished specific activity with either 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene or cumene hydroperoxide as substrate. The affinity of the truncated enzyme for a GSH-agarose matrix was also diminished, but sufficient interaction remained to enable affinity purification. Inhibition of GST2del210 by bromosulphophthalein was not altered. In contrast, this truncated form was not inhibited by S-pentylglutathione, a competitive inhibitor of the wild-type GST2 isoenzyme. The results show that the C-terminal segment of the Alpha-class glutathione transferases may form a component of the hydrophobic substrate-binding site. In contrast, this region appears not to be directly involved in GSH binding and is not absolutely essential for catalytic activity.
Quantitative N-2,4-dinitrophenylation of imidazole by 1-fluoro-(FDNB) or 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), or of pyrazole by FDNB occurs in benzene. The kinetics of the reaction of FDNB with imidazole are third-order overall (second-order with respect to imidazole) at low imidazole concentration, while levelling off of the rate occurs at higher imidazole concentration. Kinetics for the other reactions fit an equation containing terms both first- and second-order in the nucleophile. These results are interpreted in terms of an addition–elimination mechanism, with decomposition of the intermediate into products being fast for CDNB and slow (involving bifunctional reactivity for pyrazole and monofunctional reactivity for imidazole) for FDNB.
Abstract The glutathione S -transferases (GSTs; EC 2.5.1.18) are a family of dimeric proteins that catalyze reactions between glutathione (GSH) and various electrophiles. A partial cDNA for human GST π was obtained and the open reading frame completed. The completed cDNA was cloned, and GST π protein was expressed in bacteria. Cloned enzyme was purified and had the same kinetic constants, molecular mass, pI value, and N-terminal sequence as placental GST π except that some of the polypeptides had N-terminal methionines. A radiolabeled azido derivative of GSH, S-(p- azidophenacyl )-[ 3 H] glutathione , was used to photoaffinity-label the active site of the cloned enzyme. Labeled enzyme did not bind to a GSH-agarose affinity column. Labeling was prevented in the presence of S -hexylglutathione, and noncovalently-bound azido affinity label was a competitive inhibitor towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and GSH. These results suggest that the azido label was binding at the active site of the enzyme. Photoaffinity-labeled enzyme was trypsinized, and two labeled peptides were purified and sequenced. One peptide corresponded to residues 183–188, whereas the other corresponded to residues 183–186. These residues appear to form part of the hydrophobic (H-site) binding region of human GST π that has not been shown previously. Cloned enzyme was subjected to radiation inactivation to assess the importance of subunit interactions in the maintenance of catalytic activity. The target size of enzymatic activity (23 kDa) was not significantly different from that of the protein monomer (24 kDa). Therefore, each subunit of human GST π appears to be capable of independent catalytic activity.
The levels of susceptibility of populations of the European red mite Panonychus ulmi (Koch) (Acarina: Tetranychidae) collected from apple orchards in the Bursa region of Turkey to the insecticides chlorpyrifos and lambda-cyhalothrin, were determined by a petri leaf disk—Potter spray tower method. When compared with the susceptible population, resistance ratios at the LC50 level ranged from 6.0- to 35.6-fold, and from 0.7- to 5.7-fold for chlorpyrifos and lambda-cyhalothrin, respectively. Kinetic parameters of general esterase activity with α-naphthyl acetate as substrate indicated that an increased activity was present in the resistant populations compared with the susceptible populations. In these strains, 1.5- and 2.2-fold higher Glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity was also detected with the substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. General esterase activity gel profiles of these populations were studied by native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, but no relationship between resistance ratios and band patterns was detected. The results of this study document a decreased efficacy of chlorpyrifos and lambda-cyhalothrin in field populations of P. ulmi in Turkey, possibly linked to altered activities of esterases and GST.
The synthesis of 34-kDa stress protein was enhanced, with a simultaneous increase in heme oxygenase activity, when mouse macrophages were exposed to diethylmaleate or sodium arsenite. After 7 h of exposure to the sulfhydryl agents, the 34-kDa protein was the most actively synthesized protein. Immunoblot analysis showed that the induced 34-kDa protein reacted with an antibody raised against bovine heme oxygenase. Cadmium ions or 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene also induced the 34-kDa protein which reacted with the antibody. Treatments of the cells with buthionine sulfoximine or hydrogen peroxide weakly induced the protein, while diamide treatment or heat shock was without effect. These results are consistent with our previous findings that heavy metal ions including arsenite and cadmium ions induce heme oxygenase (32-kDa stress protein) in human cell lines [Taketani, S., Kohno, H., Yoshinaga, T., & Tokunaga, R. (1989) FEBS Lett. 245, 173-176], and also suggest that the formation of glutathione conjugate with sulfhydryl-reactive agents may mediate the induction of the stress protein in mouse peritoneal macrophages.
The “mu loop,” an 11-residue loop spanning amino acid residues 33–43, is a characteristic structural feature of the mu class of glutathione transferases. To assess the contribution of the mu loop to the structure and function of rat GST M1-1, amino acid residues 35–44 (35GDAPDYDRSQ44) were excised by deletion mutagenesis, resulting in the “Deletion Enzyme.” Kinetic studies reveal that the Km values of the Deletion Enzyme are markedly increased compared with those of the wild-type enzyme: 32-fold for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 99-fold for glutathione, and 880-fold for monobromobimane, while the Vmax value for each substrate is increased only modestly. Results from experiments probing the structure of the Deletion Enzyme, in comparison with that of the wild-type enzyme, suggest that the secondary and quaternary structures have not been appreciably perturbed. Thermostability studies indicate that the Deletion Enzyme is as stable as the wild-type enzyme at 4°C and 10°C, but it rapidly loses activity at 25°C, unlike the wild-type enzyme. In the temperature range of 4°C through 25°C, the loss of activity of the Deletion Enzyme is not the result of a change in its structure, as determined by circular dichroism spectroscopy and sedimentation equilibrium centrifugation. Collectively, these results indicate that the mu loop is not essential for GST M1-1 to maintain its structure nor is it required for the enzyme to retain some catalytic activity. However, it is an important determinant of the enzyme's affinity for its substrates.
Abbreviations RH: relative humidity; CarE: carboxylesterase; GST: glutathione-S-transferase; AChE: acetylcholinesterase; A. galanga: Alpinia galanga; D:L: dark:light; NMR: nuclear magnetic resonance; DMSO: dimethyl sulphoxide; LC 50 : median lethal concentrations; EDTA: ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid; pNPA: para-nitrophenyl acetate; CDNB: 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene; DTNB: Ellman's reagent or 5, 5′-dithiobis (2-nitrobenzoic acid); ASCh: acetylthiocholine iodide.
The metabolic competence of cultured bovine colon epithelial cells was evaluated by determining activities of phase I and II enzymes in colonocytes cul- tured for different intervals (maximum of 10 days) compared with activities measured in freshly isolated cells. Cytochrome P450 1A1-associated 7-ethoxyresoru- fin O-deethylase (EROD) activity was detectable in freshly isolated colonocytes and in colon cells main- tained in culture for up to 5 days. In contrast to liver samples, cytochrome P450 3A4-associated 7-benzyloxy- resorufin O-debenzylase (BROD) activity was not detectable in bovine colon cells. Prostaglandin H syn- thase-mediated production of prostaglandin E2 was found in freshly isolated and also in cultured colono- cytes. Both isoenzymes (COX 1 and COX 2) were detected in cultured cells. To examine phase II metabolic potency, activities of N-acetyltransferases 1 and 2, of phenol and amino sulfotransferases, of glutathione S-transferases alpha, mu, pi and theta and of UDP- glucuronyltransferase were measured. N-Acetyltransfer- ase (NAT) activity (substrate p-aminobenzoic acid, PABA, a diagnostic substrate for the human NAT-1 enzyme) was stable under culture conditions and during the observed culture period comparable to that of freshly isolated cells. In contrast, sulfamethazine, a specific substrate for NAT-2, was not acetylated, neither in bo- vine colon cells nor in bovine liver samples. Whereas activity of amino sulfotransferase (substrate 2-naph- thylamine) decreased continuously during the entire culture period, the activity of phenol sulfotransferase (substrate 1-naphthol) decreased only slowly. Activity of total glutathione S-transferases (alpha, mu, and pi) (substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene) decreased after 2 days in culture, but was stable during the following cul- ture period. Activity of glutathione S-transferase theta (substrate epoxy-3-nitrophenoxypropane) changed dur- ing the culture period. At the beginning and the end (after 10 days) of the culture period maximum activity was measured. Activity of UDP-glucuronyltransferase increased during the culture period reaching a maximum after 7 days. The results show that cultured bovine epithelial colon cells express several enzyme activities required for the biotransformation of xenobiotics.
Abstract The reaction of ebselen (2-phenyl-1,2-benzisoselenazol-3(2H)-one) with thiols was investigated with particular attention to the formation of an ebselen selenol intermediate. The selenol intermediate could be trapped in a mixture of ebselen and thiols with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and the resulting product displayed unique spectral characteristics. The reaction of authentic, synthesised ebselen selenol with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was shown to give rise to the same compound (2,4-dinitrophenyl (N-phenyl-2-carboxamido phenyl) selenide as characterized by light spectroscopy, NMR, IR and elemental analysis. The determination of the absorbtion coefficient at 400 nm (E = 7.5 mM−1 cm−1) and the initial rate constant of the reaction (1.4 ± 0.3 mM−1 min−1) allows for the convenient quantification of ebselen selenol concentrations by initial rate measurements after addition of CDNB. The choice of 400 nm to monitor the reaction excludes the interference of other intermediates in the reaction of ebselen with thiols as well as the reaction of the thiols with CDNB. When the assay is applied to typical incubation conditions used for investigating the glutathione peroxidase-like activity of ebselen it was shown that as much as 10–20% of ebselen is in the selenol form. If a stronger reductant (dithiothreitol) is used 60% is in the selenol form. These data could also be confirmed by the direct determination of ebselen selenol by UV spectroscopy, due to its peak absorbtion at 370 nm (E = 2 mM−1 cm−1). In conclusion, this investigation demonstrates, for the first time, the identity and quantity of ebselen selenol in the reaction of ebselen with thiols and also describes a convenient assay for its quantification. These observations allow further possibilities for investigation of the molecular species responsible for the antioxidant and peroxidase activities of ebselen.
The effect of hyperbilirubinemia on the function of tissue efflux transporters such as multidrug resistance-associated proteins (Mrps) and organic anion transporting polypeptides (Oatps) was examined by measuring tissue accumulation of 2,4-dinitrophenyl-S-glutathione (DNP-SG) after intravenous administration of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), a precursor of DNP-SG, in rats. DNP-SG is known as a substrate of both Mrps and Oatps. Hyperbilirubinemia was induced by a bolus intravenous administration of bilirubin. Treatment with probenecid, an inhibitor for both Mrps and Oatps, significantly increased DNP-SG concentrations in the brain, heart, liver, kidney, jejunum, spleen and skeletal muscle as compared with those in control rats, suggesting the expression of some probenecid-sensitive efflux transporters in these tissues. Rats with more than 70 microM of unconjugated/conjugated bilirubin in plasma exhibited significantly higher DNP-SG concentrations in the brain, liver, jejunum, and skeletal muscle. These results suggested that probenecid-sensitive efflux transporters in tissues were suppressed functionally under hyperbilirubinemia. In conclusion, hyperbilirubinemia accompanied by obstructive jaundice is caused by various disease states, which may increase harmful toxicities of exogenously administered Mrps and/or Oatps substrate drugs at various tissues, by suppressing the efflux transporter's function systemically.
Abstract Organic nonlinear optical crystal of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene has been successfully grown by low temperature solution growth technique. Good optical quality single crystals of size 28 mm × 11 mm × 5 mm are obtained. Grown crystals were subjected to X-ray powder diffraction analysis, FT-IR, FT-Raman, proton nuclear magnetic resonance (PNMR) and etching studies. Thermal properties of the grown crystals were studied by thermo gravimetric analysis (TGA) and differential thermal analysis (DTA). UV–vis studies show the cutoff wavelength is less than 400 nm. Nonlinear optical property of the crystal was studied by Kurtz powder technique using Nd:YAG laser and the crystal exhibits second harmonic generation property.
A glutathione-S-transferase was isolated and purified to homogeneity from human platelets. With a combination of ammonium sulfate fractionation and chromatographic methods, 0.2 mg of pure enzyme was obtained from 9 X 10(11) platelets with a 12% recovery. The purified enzyme had a specific activity of 7.5 U per milligram, representing an approximately 1,100-fold purification. The enzyme was found to be anionic, with an isoelectric point of 4.6. With reduced glutathione as a co-substrate, platelet glutathione-S-transferase was most active with the synthetic substrate, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, less active with 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, and essentially inactive with nitroglycerin and 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)-propane. The pH optimum for activity with glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was 7.0. Indomethacin (1-(p-chlorobenzoyl)-5-methoxy-2-methyindole-3-acetic acid), a chlorobenzene derivative, noncompetitively inhibited human platelet glutathione-S-transferase with an apparent KI of 0.23 mmol/L. This study represents the first complete purification and characterization of a glutathione-S-transferase from platelets. The presence of this enzyme in the platelet, within which high concentrations of reduced glutathione coexist, suggests the potential importance of the platelet in detoxification reactions and in the synthesis of the glutathione adducts of leukotriene metabolism.
An acidic form of glutathione S-transferase (GST) was purified from human fetal livers by means of affinity chromatography and chromatofocusing. The major peak of the acidic form of GST was focused between pH 4.8 and 4.9. Judging by SDS-PAGE, the purified acidic GST was apparently homogeneous; the subunit molecular weight was estimated to be 23,000. The acidic GST catalyzed the conjugations of glutathione (GSH) with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and ethacrynic acid (EA). The immunochemical properties of the purified acidic GST were indistinguishable from those of human placental GST-pi. The N-terminal amino acid sequence of the acidic GST was identical with that of GST-pi from human placenta. The level of expression of the acidic form of GST was clearly different between human adult and fetal livers as examined on the levels of mRNA and protein.
Abstract Hexachloro-1,3-butadiene (HCBD) is a substrate for the hepatic microsomal glutathione transferases and is metabolised at higher rates by these enzymes than their cytosolic counterparts. Conjugation reactions catalysed by the microsomal and cytosolic transferases have been studied and characterized using this substrate and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). In rat liver microsomes the K m values for HCBD and CDNB were 0.91 and 0.012 mM and in cytosol 0.51 and 0.10 mM respectively. V max values for HCBD were 1.39 and 0.35 nmol conjugate formed/min/mg protein for microsomes and cytosol respectively. In microsomal systems HCBD was a potent competitive inhibitor of the metabolism of CDNB with a K i value of approximately 10 μM. However, CDNB did not inhibit HCBD metabolism significantly. These data suggest that more than one microsomal enzyme is involved in HCBD metabolism. The microsomal membrane could be solubilized without significant inhibition of HCBD activity; however, some detergents did inhibit the conjugation reaction. Activity was also lost on treatment of microsomal membranes with trypsin indicating the enzyme is localized on the cytoplasmic surface of the endoplasmic reticulum. Pretreatment of the rats with Aroclor 1254, 3-methylcholanthrene or phenobarbital did not change the microsomal conjugation of HCBD or CDNB with glutathione. Of seven species investigated, a human liver sample showed the highest ratio of microsomal to cytosolic glutathione transferase activity for HCBD (in microsomes 40-fold higher specific activity than in cytosol). Glutathione conjugation appears to play a critical role in the toxicity and carcinogenicity of some halogenated hydrocarbons. These data substantiate the potentially important role for the microsomal glutathione transferase in catalysing these reactions.
Class mu glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are important in the detoxication of epoxides generated by oxidative metabolism. Phenobarbital, 3-methylcholanthrene, and pyridine have failed to enhance the expression of class mu GST isozymes in rabbit hepatic tissue (T. Primiano, S. G. Kim, and R. F. Novak, Toxicol. Appl. Pharmacol., 113, 64-73, 1992). Two class mu GST isozymes have been isolated from rabbit hepatic cytosol and purified to homogeneity using S-hexylglutathione-agarose, CM-Sepharose, and PBE94 chromatofocusing chromatography. Sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and immunoblot analyses showed that both isozymes possessed M(r) values of approximately 25,500 and cross-reacted with class mu-specific GST IgG. Gel filtration analysis revealed that these isozymes were dimers with molecular weights of approximately 45 kDa. The class mu GST isozymes had pIs of 7.8 and 7.2 as determined by nonequilibrium pH gel electrophoresis. The class mu GST 7.8 and 7.2 isozymes exhibited different metabolic activities toward the substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, bromosulfophthalein, 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)propane, trans-4-phenyl-3-buten-2-one, p-nitrobenzyl chloride, and 3,4-dichloronitrobenzene. Metabolic activity of the two GSTs toward the substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was inhibited by Cibacron blue, triethyltin bromide, S-hexylglutathione, bromosulfophthalein, and indomethacin. The amino acid composition of GST mu 7.8 and 7.2 was determined and found to be very similar to those of purified rat class mu GST isozymes. N-terminal analysis of the first 21 residues of the pI 7.8 class mu GST isozyme revealed that it had 71 and 81% sequence identity with the Yb1 and Yb2 subunits, respectively. Similarly, N-terminal analysis of the first 21 residues of the pI 7.2 class mu GST isozyme revealed a 75% sequence identity with either the rat Yb1 or Yb2 subunit. Examination of class mu GST expression in rabbit hepatic cytosol following treatment with a series of known inducers including phenobarbital, 3-methylcholanthrene, isosafrole, pyrazine, trans-stilbene oxide, butylated hydroxyanisole, and tert-butylhydroquinone was accomplished. The data show that these agents not only failed to enhance class mu GST expression, but that 3-methylcholanthrene and isosafrole caused suppression of class mu GSTs. These results provide evidence for the existence of two closely related class mu GST isozymes in rabbit hepatic tissue and suggest that the molecular mechanisms regulating GST expression differ between rat and rabbit in response to these xenobiotics.
During the post-hypoxic period, symptoms of oxidative stress and activation of enzymatic and non-enzymatic antioxidant systems were observed in several plant tissues. In the roots, mitochondrial respiratory chain is the main source of ROS. Superoxide anion radical is formed in the mitochondrial electron-transport chain at the level of Complexes I and III. The purpose of this work was to estimate superoxide anion production by the mitochondria isolated after a period of hypoxic treatment. Seedlings of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) were grown on a nutrient medium flushed for 5d with air (control) or nitrogen (hypoxia) and then transferred for 24h to aerated medium (post-hypoxia). Production of superoxide anion by the mitochondria was measured by SOD-inhibitable oxidation of adrenaline to adrenochrome with NADH as a respiratory substrate. Hypoxic treatment increased mitochondrial activity but decreased mitochondrial superoxide anion appearance outside the mitochondrial membrane as compared to the mitochondria isolated from the roots continuously grown on aerated medium. The result of lower superoxide anion determination is attributed to increased antioxidants concentration during hypoxia. This was confirmed by inhibition of O2- production by exogenous GSH and stimulation by addition of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), which depleted endogenous mitochondrial GSH.
The present study demonstrates the carrier-mediated uptake of intact glutathione (GSH) by human platelets. Platelet GSH uptake was characterized as being Na+ independent and saturable. The KM, apparent and Vmax, apparent for GSH uptake in platelet plasma membrane vesicles were 28.0 +/- 8.4 microM and 263.5 +/- 28.5 pmol/min per mg protein, respectively. The transport was inhibited by GSH analogs and enhanced by KCl-induced membrane depolarization. GSH transport may be regulated by the intracellular thiol status, since the depletion of intraplatelet GSH with 100 microM 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) increased GSH uptake by approximately 40%. The KM, apparent and Vmax, apparent for GSH uptake in intact platelets changed from 99.5 +/- 15 microM and 42 +/- 7.5 pmol/min per 10(9) platelets, respectively, to 33.7 +/- 6.7 microM and 21.5 +/- 6.9 pmol/min per 10(9) platelets, respectively, on reducing intraplatelet GSH with 100 microM CDNB.
The in vitro interaction of butyric acid, crotonic acid and n-butylamine with rat liver glutathione S-transferase (GST) was studied, using glutathione (GSH) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrates. Both acids inhibited the GST activity in crude extracts in a dose dependent manner; the amine did not. The GST isoenzymes were inhibited at different degrees. Kinetic studies never revealed competitive inhibition kinetics, with GSH nor with CDNB as the variable substrate. Titration of remaining GSH in appropriate incubation mixtures revealed no GST catalyzed conjugation with GSH. It is concluded that butyric and crotonic acid interact with GST by direct binding to these proteins via their carboxyl group. This binding could have a protective function against these compounds.
Rat liver microsomal glutathione transferase is activated by sulfhydryl reagents and proteolysis. This property varies, however, depending on the combination, concentration and reactivity of the substrates. Thus, a multi-dimensional diagram can be envisioned in which the parameters affecting enzyme activity and activation are visualized. In principle activation could stem from an alteration in enzyme mechanism, transition-state complementarity, product release rate or pH-rate behaviour. These studies appear to rule out these possibilities and an alternate hypothesis is suggested based on the following experiments: (i) alternate substrate diagnosis of the kinetic mechanism of microsomal glutathione transferase indicates a random sequential mechanism. Non-activated and activated enzyme follow the same mechanism by these criteria. (ii) The microsomal glutathione transferase stabilizes a Meisenheimer complex between 1,3,5-trinitrobenzene and glutathione. The formation constants were similar for the unactivated and activated enzyme ((15 +/- 1).10(3) and (14 +/- 1).10(3) M-1, respectively, at pH 8). Inasmuch as the Meisenheimer complex resembles the transition state there is no evidence for an increased stabilization upon activation. (iii) The catalytic rate constant kcat does not vary with the viscosity in the assay medium. Thus, product release is not rate limiting for the unactivated and activated microsomal glutathione transferase (with saturating 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and varying GSH). (iv) The pH dependence of the Kf-values for Meisenheimer complex formation exhibited pKa values close to 6 for both the activated and unactivated microsomal glutathione transferase. The pH profile of kcat (with saturating 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and variable GSH concentrations) showed apparent pKa values of 5.7 +/- 0.5 and 6.3 +/- 0.4 for the unactivated and activated enzyme, respectively, indicative of a very similar requirement for deprotonation of the enzyme-GSH-1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene complex. (v) Examination of the kinetic parameters (obtained with GSH as the variable substrate against increasingly reactive electrophilic substrates) in Hammett plots shows that the activation mechanism entails a more efficient utilization of GSH. It is suggested that a higher rate of formation of the glutathione thiolate anion occurs in the activated enzyme.
Our previous study suggested that menadione (MEN) is cytotoxic to platelets of rats due to oxidative stress. To elucidate the mechanism of this toxicity, MEN-induced depletion of total cellular thiols or depletion of gutathione was studied in intact rat platelets. Treatment with MEN resulted in dose and time dependent damage to plasma (assessed by lactate dehydrogenase leakage) and intracellular (assessed by serotonin release) membranes. These events were well correlated with total cellular thiol depletion by MEN treatment, however MEN-induced glutathione depletion occurred rapidly and before plasma and intracellular membrane damage. Unlike hepatocytes, oxidized glutathione was not formed, suggesting that protein arylation, rather than oxidative stress, might be the ultimate mechanism for MEN cytotoxicity in platelets. Platelets were pretreated with dithiothreitol to supplement the total cellular thiol pool or with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene to deplete glutathione, a soluble thiol. Dithiothreitol pretreatment to platelets protected against MEN-induced toxicity to both plasma membranes (prevented lactate dehydrogenase leakage and changes in platelet turbidity) and intracellular membranes (prevented serotonin release), although 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene pretreatment potentiated these toxicities. These results indicate that the total cellular pool of thiols plays a vital role in maintaining plasma and intracellular membrane integrity.
Exposure of iron-loaded C57BL/10ScSn mice to the polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) mixture Aroclor 1254 in the diet (0.01%) for 5 weeks caused massive hepatic porphyria far greater than occurred with PCBs alone. This regime eventually causes hepatocellular carcinoma. Hepatic microsomal ethoxy-, pentoxy-, and benzyloxyresorufin dealkylase activities (respectively EROD, PROD, and BROD) catalyzed primarily by cytochrome P4501A1 and 2B isoenzymes were markedly induced after 2 weeks of diet (when no porphyria had developed) but showed little effect of iron. EROD activity in the nuclear membrane was also induced by the PCBs as was CYP1A1 protein when shown by immunoblotting. Nuclear dealkylase activities of PCBs-treated mice were considerably less than microsomal activities but were stimulated by iron pretreatment. The mechanism of the iron-enhanced toxicity may be due to oxidative damage associated with chronic induction of CYP1A1 isoforms. Lucigenin-enhanced chemiluminescence (CL) by microsomes and nuclear membranes was used as a method to estimate their potential to form reactive oxygen species. Despite CL being induced by PCBs it was less with microsomes from iron-treated mice. In a comparison of a variety of inducers of microsomal cytochrome P450 there was no correlation between inducer, uroporphyrogenic agent, and intensity of CL. On the other hand, cytosolic glutathione S-transferase (GST) activities with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB) as substrates, were also induced by the PCBs mixture, the induction with DCNB being synergistically potentiated by iron pretreatment. Complementary results were observed by immunocytochemistry using anti alpha-GST antibody. In contrast, total glutathione peroxidase activity and selenium-dependent glutathione peroxidase activity were depressed by PCBs but particularly in mice also administered iron. The results illustrate that PCBs not only induce CYP1A1 in microsomes but also in the nuclear membrane, which may be of significance in the mechanism of the iron-enhanced carcinogenicity of these chemicals. The iron-enhanced induction of GST with accompanying depletion of glutathione peroxidase provides evidence for oxidative processes induced in vivo by the PCBs.
1. Rat liver mitochondrial microsomal glutathione (GSH) S-transferase activities with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate were 11.0 and 11.6%, and with 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene as substrate were 27.7 and 15.4%, of the corresponding cytosolic activities respectively. 2. Marked difference in inducibility of cytosolic and particulate GSH S-transferase activities were seen after pretreatment of animals with enzyme-inducing agents. 3-Methylcholanthrene and 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin enhanced cytosolic GSH S-transferase activity only. Phenobarbital induced the cytosolic and microsomal enzymes only.
Unlike most other characterized organic solute transport in plants, uptake of the model compound S-(2,4-dinitrophenyl)glutathione (DNP-GS) and related glutathione-S-conjugated by vacuolar membranes is directly energized by MgATP. Here we show that exogenous application of the DNP-GS precursor 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) to seedlings of Vigna radiata (mung bean) increases the capacity of vacuolar membrane vesicles isolated from hypocotyls for MgATP-dependent DNP-GS transport in vitro. Our findings are 4-fold: (a) Pretreatment of seedlings with CDNB causes a progressive increase in MgATP-dependent DNP-GS uptake by vacuolar membrane vesicles, whereas the same range of CDNB concentrations causes only marginal stimulation when the compound benoxacor [4-(dichloroacetyl)-3,4-dihydro-3-methyl-2H-1,4-benzoxazine] is included in the pretreatment solution. (b) Increased DNP-GS uptake is accompanied by a proportionate and selective increase in Vmax(DNP-GS) but not in Km(DNP-GS) or Km(MgATP). (c) CDNB-enhanced DNP-GS uptake is not accompanied by a change in the density profile or sidedness of the vacuolar membrane fraction. (d) Basal and CDNB-enhanced DNP-GS uptake are indistinguishable in terms of their inhibitor profiles. On the basis of these findings, it is inferred that pretreatment with CDNB increases the amount or recruitment of functional transporter into the vacuolar membrane and that agents such as benoxacor antagonize the effects otherwise seen with CDNB in this sytem.
The glutathione S-transferases (EC 2.5.1.18) have been purified to electrophoretic homogeneity from 105,000g supernatant of sheep liver homogenate by employing a combination of gel filtration on Sephadex G-150 and affinity chromatography on S-hexylglutathione-linked Sepharose-6B columns. Approximately 70% of the original glutathione S-transferase activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and glutathione peroxidase activity toward cumene hydroperoxide could be recovered by this purification method. Of particular importance in developing this procedure was the fact that the enzyme preparation obtained after affinity column chromatography represented all the isozymes of sheep liver glutathione S-transferases. Further purification by CM-cellulose and DEAE-cellulose column chromatography resolved the glutathione S-transferases into seven distinct cationic isozymes designated C-1, C-2, C-3, C-4, C-5, C-6, and C-7 and five overlapping anionic transferases designated A-1, A-2, A-3, A-4, and A-5, respectively, in the order of their elution from the ion-exchange columns. The sodium dodecyl sulfate SDS-gel electrophoretic data on subunit composition revealed that cationic enzymes are composed of two subunits with an identical Mr of 24,000 whereas a predominant subunit with Mr of 26,000 was observed in all anionic isozyme peaks except A-1. Cationic isozymes accounted for approximately 98% of the total peroxidase activity associated with the glutathione S-transferase whereas only A-1 of the anionic isozymes displayed some peroxidase activity. Isozyme C-4 was found to be the most abundant glutathione S-transferase in the sheep liver. Characterization of the individual transferases by their specificity toward a number of selected substrates, subunit composition, and isoelectric points showed some similarities to those patterns for human liver glutathione S-transferases.
Abstract 1. 1. A reconstitution experiment resulted in the formation of new proteins between limited combinations of rat and rabbit hepatic glutathione S -transferases: AA(subunit composition: YcYc) and R3b(Y3Y3), Lig(YaYa) and R3b(Y3Y3), and A(Yb1Yb1) and R2(Y2Y2). 2. 2. It was demonstrated that the new protein formed between R2 and A had the subunit composition of Y2Yb1, suggesting a hybrid of rabbit (R2) and rat isozyme (A). 3. 3. This hybrid protein showed intermediate spec. acts between those of R2 and A when either 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) or 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB) was employed as the substrate.
Treatment of rats with propylthiouracil for one to two weeks caused an increase in glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity of the liver cytosol, but not of the particulate fraction. Increased GST activity was reversed two weeks after discontinuing PTU administration. Activation of the enzyme was inversely proportional to the decrease in leukocytes. Repeated administration of PTU increased the Vmax of the enzyme without affecting the Km value for the substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, whereas both the Km and Vmax for glutathione (GSH) were increased by PTU treatment. GSH content and GSH peroxidase activity were not affected by PTU, but this resulted in an increase in glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase activity. PTU treatment caused increase in GST activity using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, p-nitrobenzyl chloride, and benzalacetone as substrates; enzyme activity towards chlorodinitrobenzene was the highest.
Male rats were fed a diet that contained perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) and perfluorodecanoic acid (PFDA) at concentrations ranging from 0.0025–0.04% (w/w) and from 0.00125–0.01% (w/w), respectively, for 1 week. The hepatic responses of the rats to PFOA and PFDA were examined. Upon the administration of PFOA and PFDA, three peroxisome proliferator-responsive parameters, peroxisomal β3-oxidation, microsomal 1-acylglycerophosphocholine (1-acyl-GPC) acyltransferase and cytosolic long-chain acyl-CoA hydrolase, were induced in a dose-dependent manner. A multiple regression analysis of the three parameters revealed that the data from rats treated with PFOA and PFDA shared one common line, indicating a marked correlation among the inductions of the three parameters. The activities of glutathione (GSH) S-transferases towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB) were depressed by PFOA and PFDA. Significant inverse correlations were found between activities of GSH S-transferases and peroxisomal β-oxidation. The administration of PFOA and PFDA significantly increased hepatic concentration of triacylglycerol. The perfluorocarboxylic acids at relatively high doses caused accumulation of cholesterol in liver. Electron microscopic studies showed that the administration of PFOA and PFDA caused an increase in cell size and proliferations of peroxisomes, and that the treatment of rats with PFDA at dietary concentration of 0.01% caused a marked increase in small lipid droplet in hepatocytes, indicative of hepatotoxic manifestations. The present results suggest that when PFOA and PFDA are administered at low levels, there are no differences between the properties of the perfluorocarboxylic acids as peroxisome proliferators, although the administration of PFDA at the doses exceeding a certain level becomes markedly toxic to hepatocytes.
Accumulating evidence from human and experimental animal studies indicates that consumption of heterocyclic amines (HA), derived from cooked meat and fish, may be associated with an increased incidence of cancer. Experiments were initiated to assess the role of one of these compounds, 2-amino-3-methylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline (IQ), as a potential transplacental carcinogen, as well as to evaluate whether in utero exposure to IQ results in the induction of fetal cytochrome P4501A1 (Cyp1a1), P4501B1 (Cyp1b1), and/or glutathione S-transferase (GST). Inducible, or responsive, backcrossed fetuses resulting from a cross between congenic C57BL/6 (Ah(d)Ah(d)) nonresponsive female mice and C57BL/6 (Ah(b)Ah(b)) responsive male mice were transplacentally exposed to olive oil or 6.25, 12.5, or 25 mg/kg of IQ on day 17 of gestation. No macroscopically or microscopically visible liver, lung, or colon tumors were found in the transplacentally treated offspring by one year after birth. Ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase (EROD) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene assays were performed to evaluate whether transplacental exposure to IQ results in the induction of fetal Cyp1a1 and GST, respectively, in lung and liver tissues. Results showed levels of EROD and GST activity in tissues of IQ-treated mice to be very close, if not identical, to those of mice treated with olive oil. Similarly, ribonuclease protection assay data showed that the levels of Cyp1a1 and Cyp1b1 RNA in tissues of IQ-treated mice were not significantly different from those of oil-treated controls. Previous studies have shown that the developing organism expresses very low levels of Cyp1a2. Thus, in utero exposure to IQ does not lead to induction of Cyp1a1, Cyp1a2, or Cyp1b1 in the fetal compartment, thereby maintaining the low levels of these activating enzymes in the developing organism. Taken together, these data imply that, at least under the conditions employed for these experiments, IQ may not play an important role in transplacentally induced tumorigenesis.
The influence of microwave radiation (2450 MHz, 3,333 pulses per second, duty factor of 0.02, and average specific absorption rate of 0.4 W/kg) on spontaneous hemolysis of human erythrocytes was examined. Cells were exposed to microwave radiation for 20 minutes at 37 degrees, 42 degrees, or 48 degrees C. Some of these cells were sensitized to oxidative damage by treatment with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and/or by coating with wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP) conjugate. Microwave radiation significantly decreased spontaneous hemolysis of untreated cells at 42 degrees C but had no effect at 37 degrees or 48 degrees C. Microwave exposure significantly enhanced a CDNB membrane stabilizing effect at 42 degrees C but had no effect at 37 or 48 degrees C. At 42 degrees C, microwave exposure increased hemolysis of WGA-HRP coated cells. Cells treated with both WGA-HRP and CDNB showed no change in fragility at 42 degrees C and increased fragility at 48 degrees C without a microwave effect. The microwave effects observed appear to involve perturbation of the thermal threshold for oxidative hyperthermic hemolysis.
Abstract The protective effect of S -adenosyl- l -methionine against rat liver steatosis induced by chronic ethanol ingestion was investigated. S -Adenosyl- l -methionine given during ethanol treatment prevented steatosis and accelerated recovery from steatosis when given after ethanol withdrawal. It also caused a slight inhibition of blood ethanol consumption in both acutely and chronically intoxicated rats. About 30% inhibition of alcohol dehydrogenase, but not of the microsomal ethanol oxidation system, occurred in rats subjected to acute ethanol toxicity as well as in normal rats as a consequence of S -adenosyl- l -methionine treatment. A comparison between S -adenosyl- l -methionine and pyrazole, as concerns inhibition of ethanol oxidation and fat accumulation, revealed that a greater inhibition of ethanol metabolism by pyrazole was associated with incomplete prevention of steatosis, while a lower inhibition by S -adenosyl- l -methionine was coupled to a complete prevention. Ethanol induced a drastic decrease of reduced glutathione liver content as well as 630 and 133% increases of blood and liver acetaldehyde contents, respectively. S -Adenosyl- l -methionine treatment almost completely reconstituted the liver reduced glutathione pool and caused a large decrease of the liver and blood acetaldehyde contents. 1-Chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, which depletes the cellular reduced glutathione, and diethylethanolamine, an inhibitor of the phosphatidylethanolamine methylation, abolished the S -adenosyl- l -methionine-induced modifications of the reduced glutathione, acetaldehyde, and triacylglycerol contents in the liver of ethanol-treated rats. Neither S -adenosyl- l -methionine nor reduced glutathione inhibitors affected the liver acetaldehyde dehydrogenase activity. It is suggested that, although S -adenosyl- l -methionine induced a small inhibition of ethanol metabolism in the liver, its antisteatosic effect could largely depend on its role as a modulator of the reduced glutathione liver content.
Variation in the activity of superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase (tretbutyl hydroperoxide as a substrate) and glutathione-S-transferase (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as a substrate) was studied in rat ischemia and in coronaro-occlusion myocardial infarction. The activity of superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase drastically reduced 2-15 minutes after ligation of the coronary artery and remained at the decreased level during the observation period (14 days). The activity of glutathione-S-transferase in the infarcted zone of the myocardium significantly decreased only by day 3 of the experiment. The activity of glutathione peroxidase in the blood of patients with acute myocardial infarction rose more than 1.5-fold.
Exposure to nitric oxide (NO • ) during inflammation has been implicated in the development of various forms of cancer, including melanoma. Clinical and epidemiologic studies indicate that expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (NOS2), as well as NO • production by tumor cells, correlate with patient mortality. NO • favors resistance to drug-induced apoptosis in melanoma cells and may do so by caspases inactivation through S-nitrosation, which could represent a mechanism responsible for NO • inhibition of apoptosis. Here we further investigate how S-nitrosation impacts apoptotic and survival pathways in human melanoma. We demonstrate that A375, SK-Mel 100 and SK-Mel 28 cells constitutively express NOS2 and that an inhibitor of NO • synthesis decreases cell proliferation. Moreover, this same treatment, or the pre-incubation with the NO • scavenger carboxy-PTIO, leads to enhanced toxicity of cisplatin, suggesting that endogenous NO • regulates growth and enhances anti-apoptotic mechanisms in melanoma cells. This anti-apoptotic effect may be due to protein S-nitrosation promoted by endogenous NO • , because disruption of nitrosothiols by dithiothreitol promotes a remarkable increase in cisplatin-induced cell death in comparison with cells treated with cisplatin alone (80% vs. 20% cell death, respectively). On the other hand, when accumulation of cellular nitrosothiols is favored via inhibition of thioredoxin reductase by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, increased resistance to cisplatin is seen in A375 cells. Using the biotin switch technique (BST), a low, yet detectable level of endogenous protein S-nitrosation is seen in A375 cells. The properties conferred by exogenous NO • to melanoma cells were studied in a controlled-delivery system to simulate NO • concentrations known to occur in inflamed tissues. Using this system, the toxicity of NO • was shown to be lower in A375, SK-Mel 100 and SK-Mel 28 cells when compared to other non-melanoma cell lines. The possible protective effect of a chronic exposure to a non-toxic dose of exogenous NO • was investigated. A375 cells were treated with 0.64 µM NO • or argon (control) for 24 hours and then cisplatin was added to the system. Cell viability was assessed 24 hours later with trypan blue staining. While nearly 50% cell death was seen in argon+cisplatin-treated cells, no significant cell death occurred under NO • +cisplatin treatment, which points to an anti-apoptotic effect of low, sustained doses of NO • in this system. Finally, using the BST, the level of global protein S-nitrosation in the cells exposed to 0.64 µM NO • was shown to be considerably increased. Collectively, these results show that NO • favors survival and proliferation of melanoma cells in vitro, possibly by S-nitrosation of components of the signaling cascades. Identification of the proteins susceptible to this NO • -mediated modification will help to devise rational strategies for disease intervention. Citation Format: {Authors}. {Abstract title} [abstract]. In: Proceedings of the 101st Annual Meeting of the American Association for Cancer Research; 2010 Apr 17-21; Washington, DC. Philadelphia (PA): AACR; Cancer Res 2010;70(8 Suppl):Abstract nr 204.
Dog liver glutathione S-transferase activities are associated with five cytosolic proteins and to approximately 1.5% with microsomal proteins determined on the basis of activity conjugating to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. The four major cytosolic enzymes were purified to apparent homogeneity by sequential use of ion-exchange, hydrophobic, hydroxyapatite and affinity chromatography. The isolated transferases are binary combinations of three classes of subunits: alpha (Mr = 26,000), beta (Mr = 27,000), gamma (Mr = 28,500). They were classified by roman numerals assigned in order of increasing isoelectric point as DI alpha gamma (pI 6.4), DII alpha alpha (pI 6.9), DIII beta gamma (pI 8.1), and DIV beta gamma (pI 8.7). Additionally, traces of conjugating activity may be attributed to a, beta monomeric or dimeric protein with cationic character. The differences in catalytic specificity, temperature and pH dependence of activity, and sensitivity and kinetic response to inhibitory ligands may reflect the intrinsic structural heterogeneity of the transferases. At physiological glutathione concentrations DI alpha gamma accounted for roughly 60% of the total 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene-conjugating activity, the rank order of activity being DI alpha gamma greater than DII alpha alpha greater than DIV beta gamma greater than DIII beta gamma. The glutathione-dependent denitration of organic nitrates seems to be restricted to the cationic enzymes, whereas 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene-conjugating activity is exclusively associated with the anionic transferases, DI alpha gamma much greater than DII alpha alpha. Arrhenius plots from initial rate experiments performed over a range of temperatures (15-40 degrees C) exhibit an upward bend for DI alpha gamma, an apparently constant slope for DII alpha alpha and DIII beta gamma, and a downward bend for DIV beta gamma.
This work describes fabrication and characterization of Field Effect Transistor (FET) biosensor incorporated with ZnO nanoparticle - Glutathione-S-Transferase (GST) protein conjugate based channel layer for detection of glutathione. Glutathione has been reported to be an important biomarker for certain types of cancer. Nanocomposite of ZnO nanoparticles and GST was synthesized to be used as the channel material for the FET structure fabricated using standard UV lithography technique. The channel material specifically detects the conjugation reaction between glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) which takes place only in presence of GST. As GST in immobilized on the channel itself, presence of glutathione can be detected by dint of occurrence of the conjugation reaction. This device was also tested with cancer cells for detection of enhanced levels of glutathione in them. Presence of glutathione is reflected on the transfer characteristics of the device. Detection was performed at various concentrations of GSH and a sensitivity and LOD (Limit of Detection) of 60.22 $\mu$ A/dec change in concentration and 13.1 nM were obtained respectively. Subsequently, the device was tested with HeLa and MCF 7 cancer cells and the results were compared with that of Human Embryonic Kidney (HEK) cells, which are noncancerous. Device characteristics marked presence of higher concentration of GSH on cancer cells compared to that of normal cells. The values of sensitivity and LOD for this experiment were found to be 206.7 nA/cell and 38 cells respectively.
We have probed the electrophilic binding site (H-site) of human glutathione transferase P1-1 through mutagenesis of two valines, Val 10 and Val 35, into glycine and alanine, respectively. These two residues were previously shown to be the only conformationally variable residues in the H-site and hence may play important roles in cosubstrate recognition and/or product dissociation. Both of these mutant enzymes have been expressed in Escherichia coli and purified and their kinetic properties characterized. The results demonstrate that Val35Ala behaves similarly to wild-type, whereas Val10Gly exhibits a strong decrease of k(cat) and k(cat)/K(m) (cosub) toward two selected cosubstrates: ethacrynic acid and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Pre-steady-state kinetic analysis of the GSH conjugation with ethacrynic acid shows that both wild-type and Val10Gly mutant enzymes exhibit the same rate-limiting step: the dissociation of product. However, in the Val10Gly mutant there is an increased energetic barrier which renders the dissociation of product more difficult. Similar results are found for the Val10Gly mutant with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as cosubstrate. With this latter cosubstrate, Val 10 also exerts a positive role in the conformational transitions of the ternary complex before the chemical event. Crystallographic analysis of the Val10Gly mutant in complex with the inhibitor S-hexyl-GSH suggests that Val 10 optimally orientates products, thus promoting their exit from the active site.
The aim of this study was to find out the profile of cellular glutathione (GSH) and GSH S-transferase (GST) in hepatocytes differentiated from adult mesenchymal stem cells (MSC). For this purpose, we have derived functionally active hepatocyte-like cells from normal human multipotent adult MSC. Then the differentiated cells were characterized by specific hepatic markers. The cellular GSH and GST catalytic activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) were determined in hepatocyte-like cells differentiated from MSC compared with undifferentiated MSC. Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and immunoblotting techniques were used to study GST-P1-1 and GST-A1-1 expression in differentiated and undifferentiated cells. The results showed that there is more than threefold increase in GST catalytic activity in hepatocytes recovered by day 14 of differentiation. GST-P1-1 mRNA expression was detected in both differentiated hepatocyte-like cells and their undifferentiated progenitors. Under similar conditions, only differentiated hepatocyte-like cells expressed GST-A1-1 mRNA. These results were further confirmed by showing that the undifferentiated cells expressed both GST-A and GST-P proteins. Unlike GST, the level of cellular GSH was declined (approximately 20%) in hepatocytes derived from MSC as compared to that of undifferentiated cells. These data may suggest that hepatogenic differentiation of human bone marrow MSC is accompanied with the regulation of factors participating in GSH conjugation pathway.
Rate coefficients for the ethoxydechlorination of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene were measured in mixtures of EtOH and EtOD of different deuterium atom fraction n (n = 0., 0.259, 0.377, 0.581, 0.767, 0.958), at 25°C. The extreme solvent isotope effect, obtained by different extrapolation procedures, is (kD/kH) = 1.90 ± 0.02. The curved variation of kn/kH with n is interpreted by fractionation factor theory in terms of hydrogen-bonding solvation of ethoxide ion and transition state.
Rabbit liver cytosolic glutathione-s-transferase (GSTs; EC: 2.5.1.18) was immobilized in cross-linked gelatin cylindrical molds which the formaldehyde was used as cross linker. Glutathione-s-transferases are the enzymes that catalyze the conjugation of wide variety of electrophilic substrates with glutathione. This process generally leads to the detoxification of the xenobiotics. Characterization of immobilized GST was made by using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene(CDNB) as substrate. Immobilization efficiency of the enzyme was calculated in terms of activity yield. Optimal enzyme, gelatin and formaldehyde amounts, optimum pH and temperature, Km[CDNB], Km[GSH] and thermal stability was searched and compared with the free enzyme. Furthermore, for studying the detoxification by conjugation in vitro, immobilized GST was tested using stirred batch reactor system and found suitable with a high yield of 2,4-dinitrophenyl-GSH conjugate formation.
Testosterone (250 microM), 7-ethoxycoumarin (25 microM), and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB, 50 microM) were used as substrates to compare phase I and II metabolism in rat precision-cut liver slices and rat hepatocytes. Overall clearance to metabolites was significantly greater in hepatocytes for testosterone (1.9- to 16.9-fold), 7-ethoxycoumarin (O-deethylation, 14.8-fold; glucuronidation, 3.1-fold), and CDNB (8.7-fold). The same metabolites for each of the substrates were detected in slices and hepatocytes. However, the ratio of sulfate to glucuronide conjugation was higher in slices, in line with the markedly slower rate of formation of 7-hydroxycoumarin. The slower rate of CDNB conjugation could not be explained by differences in the intracellular concentration of glutathione. These data suggest that metabolism in precision-cut slices is limited by diffusion of the substrate. This was illustrated by the use of 2-(5'-chloro-2'-phosphoryloxyphenyl)-6-chloro-4-(3H)-quinazolinone as a fluorescent probe to investigate diffusion in slices and hepatocytes.
Accumulating evidence from human and experimental animal studies indicates that consumption of heterocyclic amines (HA), derived from cooked meat and fish, may be associated with an increased incidence of cancer. Experiments were initiated to assess the role of one of these compounds, 2-amino-3-methylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline (IQ), as a potential transplacental carcinogen, as well as to evaluate whether in utero exposure to IQ results in the induction of fetal cytochrome P4501A1 (Cyp1a1), P4501B1 (Cyp1b1), and/or glutathione S-transferase (GST). Inducible, or responsive, backcrossed fetuses resulting from a cross between congenic C57BL/6 (Ah d Ah d ) nonresponsive female mice and C57BL/6 (Ah b Ah b ) responsive male mice were transplacentally exposed to olive oil or 6.25, 12.5, or 25 mg/kg of IQ on day 17 of gestation. No macroscopically or microscopically visible liver, lung, or colon tumors were found in the transplacentally treated offspring by one year after birth. Ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase (EROD) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene assays were performed to evaluate whether transplacental exposure to IQ results in the induction of fetal Cyp1a1 and GST, respectively, in lung and liver tissues. Results showed levels of EROD and GST activity in tissues of IQ-treated mice to be very close, if not identical, to those of mice treated with olive oil. Similarly, ribonuclease protection assay data showed that the levels of Cyp1a1 and Cyp1b1 RNA in tissues of IQ-treated mice were not significantly different from those of oil-treated controls. Previous studies have shown that the developing organism expresses very low levels of Cyp1a2. Thus, in utero exposure to IQ does not lead to induction of Cyp1a1, Cyp1a2, or Cyp1b1 in the fetal compartment, thereby maintaining the low levels of these activating enzymes in the developing organism. Taken together, these data imply that, at least under the conditions employed for these experiments, IQ may not play an important role in transplacentally induced tumorigenesis.
Determination of glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity. Isolated fetal liver and lung tissues were sonicated briefly. An aliquot was removed, resonicated for an additional 15 s, and centrifuged at 12,000 RPM for 10 min at 4°C. Supernates were assayed for GST activity at 25°C by a standard spectrophotometric assay using 1 mM 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and 1 mM GSH as substrates (Habig and Jakoby, 1981) , and activities are expressed as nmol of substrate consumed/min/mg protein (mU/mg). Protein levels were measured with bicinchoninic acid protein assay reagent (Pierce Chemical, Rockford, IL).
The enzymatic activity of glutathione S-transferase (GST) was measured and utilized as a marker of electrophilic response element (ERE)-mediated induction. Fetal levels of GST activity in lung and liver tissue were assessed using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). As shown in Figure 3 , activity levels of GST in IQ-treated samples were similar to those found in olive oil-treated tissues. The average activity in oiltreated fetal lung was 57.0 Ϯ 1.7 nmol of substrate consumed/ min/mg protein (mU/mg), compared to an activity of 62.5 Ϯ 2, 4, 8, 12, 16, 24, and 48 h after injection. Total RNA was isolated from fetal livers and ribonuclease protection assays were employed to determine RNA expression levels of Cyp1a1 and Cyp1b1. Samples were separated on a 5% acrylamide/8 M urea gel, visualized by autoradiography, and quantified on a Molecular Dynamics phosphorimager. Mouse glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) served as an internal control and MC-treated tissue served as the experimental positive control. The numbers at the top indicate times after injection of the indicated chemicals. Results are representative of at least 2 separate experiments.
The parameters describing the structural and functional state of membranes depending on the level of reduced glutathione in erythrocytes were studied. It was shown, that the decrease in the concentration of reduced intracellular glutathione in erythrocytes upon metabolic depletion (prolonged incubation of cells at 37 degrees C in the absence of glucose) or a rapid irreversible depletion of glutathione with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene enhances lipid peroxidation processes in membranes, inhibits the membrane-bound NAD.H methemoglobin reductase activity and decreases the intensity of 1,6-diphenyl-1,3,5-hexatrien fluorescence. The data obtained suggest that the depletion of reduced intracellular glutathione causes changes in the physicochemical state of the erythrocyte membrane: the accumulation of lipid peroxidation products, changes in the physical state of lipid bilayer and the inhibition of membrane-bound NAD.H-methemoglobin reductase activity.
The glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) detoxify a number of environmental carcinogens and epoxide intermediates. In the present study, we examined the capacity of channel catfish GSTs to detoxify environmental epoxides, in particular, (±)-anti-benzo[a]pyrene-trans-7,8-dihydrodiol-9,10-epoxide (BPDE), the highly mutagenic and carcinogenic epoxide intermediates of benzo[a]pyrene metabolism. Channel catfish hepatic cytosolic GSTs catalyzed the conjugation of BPDE with GSH, but not aflatoxin B1-8,9-epoxide (AFBO), the carcinogenic epoxide intermediate produced during aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) metabolism. Channel catfish cytosolic GSTs were also active toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB, a non-specific GST substrate), δ5-androstene-3, 17-dione (δ5-ADI, a predominantly α class GST substrate) 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB, a predominantly μ-class GST substrate), and ethacrynic acid (ECA, a predominantly; π-class GST substrate). Catfish cytosolic GST(s) showed moderate immunological cross-reactivity to polyclonal antibodies against rat α and π class GST isozymes, and limited immunological cross-reactivity to a rat μ class polyclonal antibody. Isoenzymes of GST were purified to electrophoretic homogeneity from channel catfish hepatic cytosol by affinity chromatography and chromatofocusing. The major isoenzymes were tentatively identified as CC-1, CC-2 and CC-4, and a minor GST was identified as CC-5, based in order of decreasing apparent isoelectric points of chromatofocusing. In addition, an acidic fraction of the affinity-purified GSTs was isolated but not analyzed. When the GST isoenzyme fractions were characterized in terms of catalytic activity toward BPDE, all GST isoforms tested exhibited detectable GST-BPDE activity. However, the specific activity of CC-4 toward BPDE was 7- and 17-fold greater than that of CC-1 and CC-2, respectively. CC-4 also displayed the highest activity toward CDNB. The results of this study indicate that the GST-BPDE activity in channel catfish liver cytosol is apparently due to the presence of one or more GST isoenzymes with high specific catalytic activity toward BPDE. The expression of GSTs with high BPDE activity may play a contributing role in the apparent resistance of channel catfish to environmental hepatocarcinogenesis.
Two human Mu class glutathione transferases, hGST M1-1 and hGST M2-2, with high sequence identity (84%) exhibit a 100-fold difference in activities with the substrates aminochrome, 2-cyano-1,3-dimethyl-1-nitrosoguanidine (cyanoDMNG), and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB), hGST M2-2 being more efficient. A sequence alignment with the rat Mu class GST M3-3, an enzyme also showing high activities with aminochrome and DCNB, demonstrated an identical structural cluster of residues 164-168 in the alpha6-helices of rGST M3-3 and hGST M2-2, a motif unique among known sequences of human, rat, and mouse Mu class GSTs. A putative electrostatic network Arg107-Asp161-Arg165-Glu164(-Gln167) was identified based on the published three-dimensional structure of hGST M2-2. Corresponding variant residues of hGSTM1-1 (Leu165, Asp164, and Arg167) as well as the active site residue Ser209 were targeted for point mutations, introducing hGST M2-2 residues to the framework of hGST M1-1, to improve the activities with substrates characteristic of hGST M2-2. In addition, chimeric enzymes composed of hGST M1-1 and hGST M2-2 sequences were analyzed. The activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was retained in all mutant enzymes, proving that they were catalytically competent, but none of the point mutations improved the activities with hGST M2-2 characteristic substrates. The chimeric enzymes showed that the structural determinants of these activities reside in domain II and that residue Arg165 in hGST M2-2 appears to be important for the reactions with cyanoDMNG and DCNB. A mutant, which contained all the hGST M2-2 residues of the putative electrostatic network, was still lacking one order of magnitude of the activities with the characteristic substrates of wild-type hGST M2-2. It was concluded that a limited set of point mutations is not sufficient, but that indirect secondary structural affects also contribute to the hGST M2-2 characteristic activities with aminochrome, cyanoDMNG, and DCNB.
Studies of the lymphocyte markers in a case of pseudolymphoma of the lung indicate a non-neoplastic nature of the lymphoid infiltrate. The relative proportions of T and B cells and of the markers for the various subsets of both populations reflect the morphologically mixed character of the cellular infiltrate of the lung mass. Moreover, an imbalance of T cell subsets was observed in the peripheral blood: the numbers of T cells with receptors for IgM (TM) were persistently decreased while an increase of the values of T lymphocytes with receptors for IgG (TG) was noted. In addition an altered immunologic status of the patient was indicated by the in vivo impairment of cellular immunity as demonstrated by the failure to respond to common antigens and to become sensitized to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNBC).
Glutathione transferase (GST)-catalysed S-nitrosoglutathione (GSNO) formation from alkyl nitrites was determined with the homodimers 1-1, 2-2, 3-3, and 4-4 isolated from rat liver. The 4-4 isoform showed a high specificity for the alkyl nitrites. Total GST activities were studied in homogenates from different organs. The liver showed highest GST activity both with amyl nitrite and with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrate, the activity ratio of amyl nitrite over CDNB being 3.8. In lung and heart, these ratios were 6.2 and 5.7, respectively, indicating a selectivity of these organs for alkyl nitrite metabolism and GSNO formation.
Because of the low hepatic activity of gamma-glutamyl-transferase in the rat, the liver is generally considered to play only a minor role in the degradation of glutathione conjugates, a limiting step in mercapturic acid formation. Recent findings indicate, however, that the liver has a prominent role in glutathione catabolism, particularly in species other than rat. To examine the contributions of liver to mercapturic acid biosynthesis, mercapturate formation was compared in isolated perfused livers from rats and guinea pigs dosed with either 0.3 or 3.0 mumol of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). Chemically synthesized glutathione conjugate, mercapturic acid, and intermediary metabolites of CDNB were used as standards in the high performance liquid chromatography analysis of bile and perfusate samples. Biliary excretion accounted for almost all of the recovered metabolites. A marked species difference was observed in the pattern of CDNB metabolism. Rat livers dosed with 0.3 mumol of CDNB excreted 55% of total biliary metabolites as the glutathione conjugate and 8.2% as the mercapturic acid, whereas guinea pig livers excreted only 4.8% as the glutathione conjugate and 47% as the mercapturate. Mercapturic formation was also dose-dependent, with a larger fraction formed at the 0.3- versus the 3.0-mumol dose (8.2 versus 3.7% in the rat; 47 versus 19% in the guinea pig). Hepatic conversion of the glutathione conjugate to the mercapturic acid was markedly inhibited in both species after retrograde intrabiliary infusion of acivicin, an inhibitor of gamma-glutamyltransferase activity. These findings provide direct evidence for intrahepatic biosynthesis of mercapturic acids. Thus, glutathione conjugates synthesized within hepatocytes are secreted into bile and broken down to cysteine conjugates; the latter are then presumably reabsorbed by the liver, N-acetylated to form the mercapturic acid and re-excreted into bile.
Abstract Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are a family of detoxification enzymes that catalyze the conjugation of glutathione (GSH) to electrophiles, thus preventing toxicity. This study characterized the cytosolic GST classes of juvenile white sturgeon (Acipenser transmontanus) liver, using two methods of isolation. The first, which employed affinity chromatography, electrophoresis and immunoblotting against a polyclonal striped bass GST antibody, yielded two cytosolic GSTs. The GSTs were identified by nanospray liquid chromatography–tandem mass spectrometry (LC–MS/MS), peptide mass mapping and MS/MS sequencing, as well as de novo MS/MS sequencing as GST classes π and μ using the Mascot search engine and the NCBI non-redundant database (nrDB) for both methods. The molecular masses were determined to be 23,548 ± 23 and 26,027 ± 23 Da, respectively, using linear matrix assisted laser desorption ionization time of flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry. The second method of isolation, which used affinity chromatography and high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC), yielded π, μ, and possibly two α isoforms by MALDI-TOF-TOF, again searching against the NCBI nrDB. The α isoforms were determined to have molecular masses of 25,528 ± 23 and 25,348 ± 23 Da by electrospray ionization source (ESI)–MS. Overall, it appears that the HPLC method is more sensitive than immunoblotting with the current antibody. Activity of the cytosolic GSTs was evaluated using the substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and found to be 2.4 ± 0.6 U/mg cytosolic protein, and 0.41 ± 0.05 U/mg cytosolic protein using ethacrynic acid (ETHA).
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs), which occur abundantly in most organisms, are essentially involved in the intracellular detoxification of numerous substances including chemotherapeutic agents, and thus play a major role in the development of drug resistance. A gene encoding a protein with sequence identity of up to 37% with known GSTs was identified on chromosome 14 of the malarial parasite Plasmodium falciparum. It was amplified using gametocyte cDNA and expressed in Escherichia coli as a hexahistidyl-tagged protein of 26 kDa subunit size. The homodimeric enzyme (PfGST) was found to catalyse the glutathione (GSH)-dependent modification of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and other typical GST substrates such as o-nitrophenyl acetate, ethacrynic acid, and cumene hydroperoxide. The Km value for GSH was 164+/-20 microM. PfGST was inhibited by cibacron blue (Ki=0.5 microM), S-hexylglutathione (Ki=35 microM), and protoporphyrin IX (Ki=10 microM). Hemin, a most toxic compound for parasitised erythrocytes, was found to be an uncompetitive ligand of PfGST with a Ki of 6.5 microM. Based on the activity of PfGST in extracts of P. falciparum, the enzyme represents 1 to 10% of cellular protein and might therefore serve as an efficient in vivo buffer for parasitotoxic hemin. Destabilising ligands of GST are thus expected to be synergistic with the antimalarial drug chloroquine, which itself was found to be a very weak inhibitor of PfGST (IC50>200 microM). X-ray quality crystals of PfGST (250x200x50 microm) will serve as starting point for structure-based drug design.
Melatonin, a pineal secretory product known to be a scavenger of oxygen radicals, is widely used as a dietary supplement, although its toxicity has not been well characterized. Melatonin was administered (10 mg/kg IP in gum tragacanth, once a day for 4 successive days) to normal and 30-day streptozotocin-induced diabetic male Sprague-Dawley rats, after which activities of phase I and phase II biotransformation enzymes were assessed in the liver, kidney, intestine, and spleen. Most melatonin-induced effects were seen in the liver, and a few in extrahepatic tissues. In the liver, the effects of diabetes were reversed in two instances: hydroxylation of benzo[a]pyrene and glutathione S-transferase activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. In contrast to its effect on the phase I enzymes studied, whose activities were inhibited or unaffected by melatonin treatment, this treatment led to increased activity of glucuronyl transferase toward 4-methylumbelliferone in intestine of diabetic rats and toward 4-hydro...
Hepatocytes were isolated from adult male and female rats and maintained in monolayer culture for up to 24 hr. The degree of preservation of representative phase I and phase II xenobiotic biotransformation enzymes was studied in these cells immediately after isolation, after attachment in culture, and after 24 hr in culture. Regarding phase I pathways, hepatocytes during 24 hr lost 50% of cytochrome P-450, but maintained high mixed function oxidase activities; 75% of aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase and 65% of benzphetamine demethylase activities were preserved in hepatocytes from males, whereas in hepatocytes from females 70 and 50% of these activities, respectively, were maintained. Of phase II pathways, glutathione transferase activity after 24 hr, tested toward 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene as substrate, was diminished in male hepatocytes to 20% of the initial liver activity and in female cells, to 35%, whereas the activity tested toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate was stable. UDP-glucuronosyltransferase activities, tested toward p-nitrophenol and phenolphthalein as substrates, were slightly increased during 24 hr of culture of hepatocytes to levels higher than in liver before perfusion. The level of UDP-glucuronic acid, the endogenous substrate for the enzyme, was reduced after isolation to only 6% of the initial liver value, and then increased during culture to a level approximately 60% of normal. Thus, the changes in xenobiotic biotransformation enzymes and associated constituents in cultured hepatocytes were not uniform, although biotransformation capability remained reasonably intact.
Glutathione S-transferase P1-1 isoforms, differing in a single amino acid residue (Ile104 or Val104), have been previously identified in human placenta [Ahmad, H., Wilson, D. E., Fritz, R. R., Singh, S. V., Medh, R. D., Nagle, G. T., Awasthi, Y. C. & Kurosky, A. (1990) Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 278, 398-408]. In the present report, the enzymic properties of these two proteins are compared. [I104]glutathione S-transferase P1-1 has been expressed from its cDNA in Escherichia coli and purified to homogeneity by affinity chromatography; the cDNA has been mutated to replace Ile104 by Val104, and [V104]glutathione S-transferase P1-1 was expressed and isolated as described for [I104]glutathione S-transferase P1-1. The two enzymes differed in their specific activity and affinity for electrophilic substrates (KM values for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene were 0.8 mM and 3.0 mM for [I-104]glutathione S-transferase P1-1 and [V-104]glutathione S-transferase P1-1, respectively), but were identical in their affinity for glutathione. In addition, the two enzymes were distinguishable by their heat stability, with half-lives at 45 degrees C of 19 min and 51 min, respectively. The resistance to heat denaturation was differentially modulated by the presence of substrates. These data, in conjunction with molecular modeling, indicate that the residue in position 104 helps to define the geometry of the hydrophobic substrate-binding site, and may also influence activity by interacting with residues directly involved in substrate binding.
The anionic and the neutral glutathione S-transferase (GST) isoenzymes from the freshwater worm Tubifex tubifex (O.F.M.) were separated in one step by chromatofocusing on a Polybuffer exchanger 94 column, eluted with Polybuffer 74. Their pI values ranged between 4.12 and 6.98, and their molecular weight between 30 000 and 38 400. The apparent Km values towards glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene were also determined. The high number of non-cationic GST isoenzymes is unusual. Tubifex worms seems well equipped for attacking environmental pollutants.
Halogen substitution of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in chlorobenzene by n-butylamine proceeds more rapidly than substitution by benzamidine, neither reactions requiring a catalyst. Halogen substitution of 4-fluoro-1,6-dinitronaphthalene in chlorobenzene is of the second order in n-butylamine and of the first order in benzamidine. This indicates that the amidine may react bifunctionally when catalysis is required, as no enhanced rate for the reaction of the amidine, with respect to the corresponding reaction of an amine of similar basicity, results when no catalysis is required. In the case of 1-fluoro-2,4-dinitrobenzene an intramolecularly catalysed pathway is available to reactions with either benzamidine or n-butylamine, so that the former is not particularly favoured with respect to the latter. The relevance of these results to the studies of model reactions for enzyme action is discussed.
Expression of the human placental form of glutathione S -transferase (GST-π) in dysplasia (53 cases), carcinoma in situ (10 cases), and invasive carcinoma (46 cases) of human uterine cervix was investigated immunohistochemically with specific anti-GST-π rabbit antibody. While normal squamous epithelium was largely negative, the binding of antibody was appreciable in mild and moderate dysplasias, especially in the cytoplasm of cells demonstrating koilocytotic atypia. In severe dysplasia, the nuclei as well as the cytoplasm were strongly stained in all cell layers except for the superficial layer, and in carcinoma in situ both of them were also strongly stained in all cell layers. In invasive carcinoma, over 90% of cases exhibited strong cytoplasmic staining and in over 70% the nuclei were positive. GST activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and GST-π protein content were significantly increased in all of 4 squamous cell carcinomas examined as compared to values for normal cervical epithelia. Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis followed by immunoblotting using the GST-π antibody demonstrated that, of many cytoplasmic proteins, only the GST-π subunit was specifically bound. These results indicate that GST-π is a potentially useful immunohistochemical marker for (pre)neoplasia of human uterine cervix. In addition, it was demonstrated that the cells in severe dysplasia, carcinoma in situ , and invasive carcinoma expressing GST-π were often characterized by staining with a monoclonal antibody to the v-H- ras gene product.
Abstract The effects of CDAA ( N,N -diallyl-2-chloroacetamide) pretreatment on subsequent CDAA injury to corn were examined and compared with the effects of the herbicide protectant R-25788 ( N,N ,-diallyl-2,2-dichloroacetamide). In addition, the effects of CDAA pretreatment on subsequent CDAA metabolism were determined. It was found that 5μ M CDAA protected corn from injury by 200 μ M CDAA when given as a 2.5- or 1-day pretreatment. R-25788 at similar concentrations did not protect corn from subsequent R-25788 injury. Pretreatment with CDAA increased GSH levels of corn roots by 61% within 1 day, and these levels did not increase with a longer 2.5-day pretreatment with CDAA. GSH- S -transferase activity was assayed spectrophotometrically using CDNB (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene). A 1-day pretreatment with CDAA increased the root GSH- S -transferase activity by 35%, but did not affect shoot GSH- S -transferase activity. A 2.5-day pretreatment resulted in a 50% increase in root GSH- S -transferase activity but no response of the shoot enzyme was observed. Even longer pretreatments with CDAA did not result in any further increases in enzyme activity. When corn roots pretreated with CDAA for 2.5 days were excised and incubated with radiolabeled CDAA, they exhibited greater rates of uptake and metabolism than did nonpretreated roots. With in vitro studies, a fairly high rate of nonenzymatic degradation of CDAA was observed. However, the enzymatic rate was always double that of the nonenzymatic rate under the experimental conditions used. It is concluded that elevations in the GSH levels and GSH- S -transferase activities of corn roots following CDAA pretreatments may be involved in the protection of corn from subsequent CDAA injury.
The cytotoxicity detection kit used for the measurement of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activity was from Roche (Mannheim, Germany). Quercetin, rutin and rutinose were obtained from Dr. K. Masaki (Toyo Suisan, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan). Genistein, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB), N-acetylcysteine and GSH-methyl ester were purchased from Sigma (St. Louis, MO, U.S.A.). z-Val-AlaAsp(OMe)-fluoromethylketone (zVAD-fmk) was purchased Sapporo 060-8638, Japan. Received November 22, 2006; accepted January 7, 2007; published online January 11, 2007 Flavonoids have been reported to be potent antioxidants and beneficial in oxidative stress related diseases. Quercetin, a major flavonoid in food, deserves much attention because of its antioxidative activity. However, the actions of flavonoids including quercetin are complex and paradoxical. Quercetin caused apoptosis and/or cell death in various cells including cancer cells and normal cells. In this study, we investigated the effects of quercetin with or without hydrogen peroxide (H 2 O 2 ) on cell death of PC12 cells, a neuronal cell line. We showed that quercetin at 10-30 m mM alone caused cell death accompanied by caspase-mediated DNA fragmentation in undifferentiated PC12 cells. Quercetin did not inhibit and rather enhanced 0.1 mM H 2 O 2 -induced cell death. The toxic effect of quercetin was not inhibited by antioxidants such as N-acetylcysteine and GSH, although H 2 O 2 -induced cell death was inhibited by the antioxidants. Quercetin-induced cell death was reduced by 2 h treatment with nerve growth factor and serum. In addition, quercetin caused cell death in differentiated PC12 cells that were cultured with nerve growth factor for 6 d. Genistein, a soy isoflavone that has the pro-apoptotic activity, also caused cell death with DNA fragmentation. Further evaluation of the potential of dietary flavonoids as neuroprotective reagents is needed.
Abstract Recently we have shown that Salmonella typhimurium tester strains have high levels of the tripeptide glutathione (GSH) and activity of GSH S-transferases (Summer et al., 1979). In continuation of the GSH-dependent suppression of mutagenicity of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in presence of S9 fraction (Summer et al., 1979), this paper is focused on the GSH-dependent detoxifying capacity of the bacterial tester strains. 1-Fluoro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (FDNB), an electrophilic agent, which is used to identify terminal amino acids in proteins (Sanger reagent), readily reacts with GSH leading to a dose-dependent depletion of bacterial GSH. Additionally, FDNB is a strong mutagen for Salmonella typhimurium TA100, TA1538 and TA98 without metabolic activation. Presumably owing to conjugation with bacterial GSH, FDNB in concentrations which were lower or equal to those of bacterial GSH were found to be not mutagenic. Accordingly, increasing amounts of bacteria in the test system require increasing amounts of FDNB for expression of mutagenicity.
Evidence ispresented thatligandin, an intracellular protein involved inthebinding ofsuchanions asbilirubin, indocyanine green, andpenicillin, isidentical toglutathione S-transferase B (EC2.5.1.18), an enzyme catalyzing theconjugation ofglutathione withsuchelec- trophiles as1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 1,2-dichloro-4- nitrobenzene, iodomethane, ethacrynic acid,andbromo- sulfophthalein. Theproteins, isolated bydistinct methods, havethesamespecificity forsubstrates andforligands, reactinidentical fashion toantibody pioducedagainst ligandin, bearentirely sinlilar physical characteristics and aminoacidcomposition, andarebothinduced inresponse tophenobarbital. Indocyanine green, oneoftheligands thatisnoteffective asasubstrate, wasshowhtocompeti- tively inhibit theconjugation reaction. Itissuggested that specificity isdirected towardcompoundswithelectrophilic sites. ligandin isacytoplasmic protein found inabundance inthe liver ofrat, man,andother species. Thisprotein iscapable ofbinding noncovalently alarge number ofcompounds, which includes bilirubin, heme,benzyl penicillin, certain steroids, andsuchdyesasbromosulfophthalein
An anionic glutathione S-transferase was purified from bovine ciliary body by DEAE-agarose chromatography and affinity chromatography on GSH-agarose and Orange A. The enzyme accounts for about 25% of total soluble glutathione S-transferase activity of the tissue. The purified enzyme has a molecular mass of about 50,000 Da and is composed of two identical subunits of about 25,000 Da. The enzyme has a pI of 5.8. The enzyme conjugates GSH with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, p-nitrobenzyl chloride, 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenyl)propane, 1,2-dinitrobenzene and 3,4-dinitrobenzoic acid. The Km values for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and GSH are 0.40 mM and 0.57 mM respectively. Haematin is a non-competitive inhibitor (Ki = 4.5 microM) when tested with various concentrations of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. The enzyme shows no glutathione peroxidase activity with either H2O2 or cumene peroxide as substrate. On the basis of substrate specificities, pI values, amino acid composition and peptide maps, it is concluded that the ciliary-body enzyme is probably identical with the anionic form of glutathione S-transferase from bovine lens and liver.
BACKGROUND ::: The Marin strain of Culex pipiens Say is a pyrethroid-resistant population that was collected in Marin County, California, in 2001 and subsequently maintained in the laboratory under regular permethrin exposure. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: In this study, two cDNAs, CpGSTd1 and CpGSTd2, encoding glutathione S-transferase (GST) were cloned from Cx. pipiens Marin. Phylogenetic analysis of the deduced amino acid sequences, CpGSTD1 and CpGSTD2, of these genes indicated that they belong to the Delta class of insect GSTs. The nucleotide and deduced amino acid sequences of CpGSTd1 and CpGSTd2 were 59 and 48% identical respectively. CpGSTD1 and CpGSTD2 were expressed in Escherichia coli and purified by affinity chromatography. The recombinant GSTs exhibited unique selectivity towards the general GST substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB), and also differed in their sensitivity to known inhibitors of GSTs. CpGSTD1 exhibited peroxidase activity with cumene hydroperoxide, while CpGSTD2 appeared to lack this activity. CpGSTD1 was able to metabolize 1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis(4-chlorophenyl)ethane (DDT), while DDT metabolism by CpGSTD2 was not detectable. CpGSTD1 and CpGSTD2 showed no detectable metabolism of permethrin. Gene expression of CpGSTd1 and CpGSTd2 in Marin mosquitoes was elevated about twofold in comparison with that found in a pyrethroid-sensitive mosquito strain. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: The results indicate that CpGSTD1 and CpGSTD2 have unique biochemical characteristics, but they do not appear to play major roles in permethrin resistance in Marin mosquitoes.
Atopic dermatitis (AD), also known as atopic eczema, is a chronic pruritic inflammatory skin disease. The available systemic therapies for atopic dermatitis are inadequate. Objective. This study aimed to evaluate the effects of the Chinese herbal formula Pei Tu Qing Xin (PTQX) on dermatitis severity and ear swelling, immunomodulation, and the infiltration of mast cells in a mouse model of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene- (DNCB-) induced AD. Methods. AD-like symptoms were induced by DNCB in NC/Nga mice. Skin lesions, dermatitis, ear swelling, and scratching behaviour were evaluated. Changes in the T-helper type 1 (Th1), Th2, Th17, and regulatory T (Treg) subtypes and immunoregulation in the spleen and lymph nodes were detected by flow cytometry. Results. Histopathological and immunohistochemical analyses demonstrated that PTQX decreased the DNCB-mediated induction of mast cells and infiltration of inflammatory cells in the ear and dorsal skin. PTQX also reduced the DNCB-induced increase in the serum immunoglobulin E level, pruritus, and dermatitis (red, flaky areas) on the dorsal skin. Furthermore, PTQX regulated the balance between the populations of Th1, Th2, Th17, and Treg cells (particularly the latter two) in the lymph nodes. Conclusions. Our results suggest that the Chinese herbal formula PTQX can alleviate symptoms of AD, such as epithelial damage, redness, swelling, and pruritus, and potentially be used to treat this condition.
A gene coding for the GST of cotton (Gh-5) was cloned into Escherichia coli and experssed. The enzyme remained within the cytoplasm of E. coli. An 696 bp open reading frame was in the 988 base pair fragment of the recombinant plasmid pET-30b(+). The deduced protein sequence consists of 232 amino acids and has a molecular mass of 30235.58 Da. The cloned enzyme conjugated reduced glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). Plant GST cDNA was expressed in microbe and produced polypeptide had function as an enzyme.
Abstract Hong, S.-J., Kang, S.-Y., Chung, Y.-B., Chung, M.-H., Oh, Y.-J., Kang, I., Bahk, Y.Y., Kong, Y., and Cho, S.-Y. 2000. Paragonimus westermani: A cytosolic glutathione S -transferase of a σ-class in adult stage. Experimental Parasitology 94, 180–189. We purified cytosolic glutathione S -transferase (GST) of adult Paragonimus westermani monitoring its activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). The enzyme was purified 18.4-fold to electrophoretic homogeneity with 21% recovery rate through a three-step procedure. The purified enzyme (Pw28GST) has a subunit molecular weight of 28 kDa with an isoelectric point at 4.6. Monoclonal antibody (anti-Pw28GST) against Pw28GST did not cross-react with GSTs from other helminths. cDNA library was constructed in λZAP II bacteriophage and screened with anti-Pw28GST. The corresponding gene containing a single open reading frame of 804 bp encoded 211 amino acids. The predicted amino acid sequence exhibited a higher homology with catalytic domain near N-terminus of class σ GSTs (58%) than with schistosome 28-kDa GSTs (45–41%) or with class σ GSTs themselves (33–31%). The sequence contained both Tyr-6 and Tyr-10 that are highly conserved in mammalian and helminth GSTs. The apparent K m value of a recombinant enzyme was 0.78 mM. Both native and recombinant enzymes showed the highest activity against CDNB, relatively weak activity against ethacrynic acid and reactive carbonyls, and no activity against epoxy-3-( p -nitrophenoxy)-propane. The activities were inhibited by bromosulfophthalein, cibacron blue, and albendazole, but not by praziquantel. These findings indicate that adult P. westermani has a class σ GST.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are members of a multifunctional antioxidant enzyme superfamily that play pivotal roles in both detoxification and protection against oxidative damage caused by reactive oxygen species. In this study, a complementary DNA (cDNA) encoding a sigma class GST was identified in the Chinese honey bee, Apis cerana cerana (AccGSTS1). AccGSTS1 was constitutively expressed in all tissues of adult worker bees, including the brain, fat body, epidermis, muscle, and midgut, with particularly robust transcription in the fat body. Relative messenger RNA expression levels of AccGSTS1 at different developmental stages varied, with the highest levels of expression observed in adults. The potential function of AccGSTS1 in cellular defenses against abiotic stresses (cold, heat, UV, H2O2, HgCl2, and insecticides) was investigated. AccGSTS1 was significantly upregulated in response to all of the treatment conditions examined, although the induction levels were varied. Recombinant AccGSTS1 protein showed characteristic glutathione-conjugating catalytic activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Functional assays revealed that AccGSTS1 could remove H2O2, thereby protecting DNA from oxidative damage. Escherichia coli overexpressing AccGSTS1 showed long-term resistance under conditions of oxidative stress. Together, these results suggest that AccGSTS1 is a crucial antioxidant enzyme involved in cellular antioxidant defenses and honey bee survival. ::: ::: Electronic supplementary material ::: The online version of this article (doi:10.1007/s12192-012-0394-7) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.
Abstract The rock shell (Thais clavigera) has attracted interest due to high frequency of imposex induced by endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDCs) in its natural populations. Oxidative stress is one of the mechanisms of action of EDCs. Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) play an important role in antioxidant defense protecting the cells from oxidative stress. So far, there is no information on antioxidant defense or detoxification genes from T. clavigera. We cloned the full length cDNA sequence for a Mu-class of GST gene from T. clavigera (Tc-GSTM) and purified recombinant Tc-GSTM protein by bacterial expression. The deduced amino acid sequence of Tc-GSTM exhibited 45 to 66% identity with other Mu-class GSTs. Real-time RT-PCR analysis showed highest expression of Tc-GSTM in gill, while reproductive organs showed low expression. The biochemical characteristics of purified recombinant Tc-GSTM were typical, and thus Tc-GSTM showed highest specific activity for the universal GST substrate, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). After exposure to prooxidant H2O2, transformed Escherichia coli containing Tc-GSTM showed higher survival rate compared to control bacteria without expressed Tc-GSTM. The present study reveals a conserved antioxidant role for GSTM in rock shells, and the tissue-specific differences in Tc-GSTM transcripts would partly reflect vulnerability of reproductive organs to chemically induced oxidative stress.
Abstract Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a chronic inflammatory skin disease. Korean red ginseng is a Korean traditional medicine. In this study, we estimated the effects of Korean red ginseng water extract (RGE) in the 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB)-induced BALB/c mouse model which develops AD-like lesions. After RGE administration (100, 200, and 400 mg/kg) to DNCB-induced mice there were improvements in the dermatitis score and skin pH, a decrease in trans-epidermal water loss, and improved skin hydration. RGE also significantly inhibited eosinophil infiltration, increased filaggrin protein levels, and decreased serum IgE levels, epidermal thickness, mast cell infiltration, and ceramidase release. Compared with that in DNCB-induced mice, RGE effectively decreased the mRNA expression levels of interleukin-6 (IL-6), thymic stromal lymphopoietin (TSLP), and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), as well as the protein level of thymus and activation-regulated chemokine (TARC). These inhibitory RGE effects are mediated by inhibiting the phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), including extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), and p38 MAPK. Furthermore, we confirmed that RGE suppresses interferon-γ (IFN-γ) and TNF-α-induced expression of macrophage-derived chemokine (MDC) and TARC genes in human keratinocyte (HaCaT) cells. Taken together, these results demonstrate that RGE may exert anti-atopic related to responses by suppression the expression of inflammatory mediators, cytokines, and chemokines via downregulation of MAPK signaling pathways, suggesting that RGE may be an effective therapeutic approach for prevention of AD-like disease.
Guinea-pig cerebral cortex synaptosomes steadily release H2O2 into the suspending medium, at the rate of 20-30 pmol min-1 mg protein-1. A transient increase of the H2O2 release is induced by the addition of 1 mM Ca2+, which declines within 60-90 s to a rate identical or slightly higher than that before Ca2+. The extra H2O2 following Ca2+ addition varies between 40-100 pmol/mg protein and is insensitive to verapamil. The H2O2 release increases strongly (up to 250 pmol min-1 mg-1) upon depletion of the synaptosomal glutathione by treatment with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, a substrate for glutathione transferase. This treatment however has no effect on the Ca2+-induced H2O2 transient. In these treated synaptosomes a further increase of the output of H2O2 is rapidly induced upon addition of the Ca2+ ionophore ionomycin. This increase (about 100 pmol min-1 mg-1) lasts several minutes and requires the presence of Ca2+. A similar, though less pronounced increased H2O2 release is obtained (also in the absence of Ca2+) upon depolarization of the synaptosomal plasma membrane with KCl or with veratridine.
Glutathione S-transferases (GST) are phase II biotransformation enzymes influenced by exposure to foreign compounds and are proposed as biomarkers of environmental pollution. The hepatic and renal cytosolic GST isoenzymes from juvenile Atlantic eels were isolated and partially characterized. In both organs, three different GST isoenzymes were purified using HPLC and the final subcellular purified fraction resulted in enzymatic subunits of approximately 24 500 Da. Total GST activity was significantly higher towards the substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) than the ethacrynic acid (ETHA). Induction of isoenzymes of GST was studied after intraperitoneal treatment with a single dose (25 mg/kg bw) of a polychlorinated biphenyls mixture. In the hepatic cytosol, an inductory effect on the major enzymatic isoform was observed when comparing treated with control eels. This was directly related to statistically significant (P<0.05) differences in total GST activity toward the CDNB between treated and control groups, with an increase of 33.6% of GST total activity measured in the last subcellular purified samples. In the kidney cytosol, PCB treatment did not affect GST activity. Significant differences were observed when analyzing the effect of PCB treatment on the main GST subunit height (retention time of 27 min). These results indicate that hepatic GST profiles could be considered as a good tool in environmental studies as specific biomarkers of contamination.
The molecular salt, 2-methylpyridinium 5-(2,4-dinitrophenyl)-2,6-dioxo-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropy-rimidin-4-olate) (I), is prepared from the ethanolic solution of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, pyrimidine-2,4,6-(1H,3H,5H)-trione (barbituric acid) and 2-methylpyridine at room temperature, and the molecular salt, pyridinium 5-(2,4-dinitrophenyl)-2,6-dioxo-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyrimidin-4-olate (II), is prepared from the same reactants, by dissolving them in hot DMSO and ethanol mixture at 70°C. The structures of I and II are characterized by visible, IR, 1H-NMR, 13C-NMR and elemental analysis and confirmed by single crystal X-ray analysis. Both the salts crystallize in triclinic crystal system with sp. gr. \(P\bar 1\). They possess noticeable anticonvulsant activity even at low concentration (25 mg/kg). Acute toxicity studies of these complexes indicate that LD50 values are greater than 1500 mg/kg and the tested animals do not show any behavioural changes.
The cytosolic fraction of adult Schistosoma mansoni contains glutathione S-transferase (EC 2.5.1.18) activity, determined with the prototype substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, that is 5- to 50-fold greater than that found in other metazoan parasites. A survey of several model substrates revealed that enzymes in male and female schistosomes have distinct but overlapping substrate specificities. Four forms of glutathione S-transferase were detected, three of which, SmGST-1, SmGST-2, and SmGST-3, were purified to apparent homogeneity by glutathione affinity chromatography and HPLC chromatofocusing. The purified enzymes displayed very similar catalytic and physicochemical properties. They could be distinguished by differences in activity with ethacrynic acid and trans-4-phenyl-3-buten-2-one, but not with aryl halide substrates. The isoelectric points of SmGST-1, SmGST-2, and SmGST-3 were estimated to be 7.2, 7.1, 6.9, respectively. A polyclonal antiserum to SmGST-3 cross-reacted with the other two forms, but not with other soluble schistosome proteins. Each of the purified enzymes displayed an apparent subunit molecular weight of 28,500 by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis under denaturing conditions. Gel filtration chromatography yielded a molecular weight of 30,800 for the catalytically active form of the enzyme. Unlike all known glutathione S-transferases, the three enzyme forms purified from S. mansoni appear to be catalytically active monomeric proteins.
Glutathione-S-transferase (GST) activity was determined in 36 species of rhizosphere bacteria with the substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and in 18 strains with the herbicide alachlor. Highest levels of CDNB-GST activity (60 to 222 nmol (middot) h(sup-1) (middot) mg(sup-1)) were found in gram-negative bacteria: Enterobacter cloacae, Citrobacter diversus, Klebsiella planticola, Pseudomonas cepacia, Pseudomonas fluorescens, Pseudomonas putida, and Xanthomonas campestris. There was very low CDNB-GST activity in the gram-positive strains. Rapid metabolism of CDNB-glutathione conjugates, attributable to high levels of (gamma)-glutamyltranspeptidase, also occurred in the gram-negative bacteria, especially pseudomonads. Alachlor-GST activity detected in cell extracts and whole-cell suspensions of some strains of the families Enterobacteriaceae and Pseudomonaceae was 50- to 100-fold lower than CDNB-GST activity (0.5 to 2.5 nmol (middot) h(sup-1) (middot) mg(sup-1)) and was, for the most part, constitutive. The glutathione-alachlor conjugate was rarely detected. Cysteineglycine and/or cysteine conjugates were the major products of alachlor-GST metabolism. Whole-cell suspensions of certain Pseudomonas spp. dechlorinated from 20 to 75% of 100 (mu)M alachlor in 24 h. Results indicate that rhizosphere bacteria, especially fluorescent pseudomonads, may play an important role in the degradation of xenobiotics such as alachlor via GST-mediated reactions.
1. Enzymes catalysing the reaction between GSH and methylparathion (dimethyl p-nitrophenyl phosphorothionate), 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and S-crotonyl-N-acetylcysteamine were separated by (NH(4))(2)SO(4) precipitation from homogenates of sheep, rat and mouse livers and from homogenates of cockroaches, houseflies and grass grubs. 2. Electrofocusing of the preparations from each of these species separated a number of zones, each of which catalysed the reaction of GSH with all three substrates. 3. Ion-exchange chromatography on CM-cellulose also separated a number of fractions in which activity towards the three substrates coincided. 4. In both separation methods patterns of the activities were consistent with the presence in all species of several GSH transferases each having a degree of cross specificity towards the three substrates.
In fish, glutathione S-transferases are very important in the detoxification of water-borne pollutants. Carp, which often live and thrive under extreme conditions of water pollution, have been recommended by the European Community as an ideal species to test for the effect of various chemical substances often found in the aqueous environment. In this paper we describe the purification and kinetic characterization of the three major forms of glutathione S-transferase in carp liver cytosol. The main step for purification was affinity chromatography on S-hexylglutathione-Sepharose 6B and the isoenzymes have been separated by isoelectric focusing at pH 7.7, 7.3, 7.1. Values of Km and kcat/Km for both reduced glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrates have been determined, and the isoenzymes characterized with several substrates and inhibitors. J. Exp. Zool. 284:130–136, 1999. © 1999 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
Abstract Glutathione transferase (GST) was purified from the hindgut of grasshopper ( Zonocerus variegatus ) a polyphagous insect. The purified enzyme had a native molecular weight of 40 kDa and a subunit molecular weight of 19 kDa. The purified enzyme could conjugate glutathione (GSH) with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), paranitrobenzylchloride, paranitrophenylacetate, 7-chloro-4-nitrobenzo-2-oxa-1,3-diazole (NBDCl), and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB) with specific activities of 3.3 ± 0.3, 0.49 ± 0.10, 0.10 ± 0.002, 1.2 ± 0.2, and 1.7 ± 0.4 μmol/min/mg protein, respectively. CDNB appears to be the best substrate with a specificity constant, k cat / K m , of 1.8 ± 0.1 × 10 −4 M −1 S −1 . The kinetic mechanism of Z. variegatus GST (zvGST) in the conjugation of GSH with some electrophilic substrates appears complex. Conjugation of GSH with DCNB was inhibited by high DCNB concentration, while with NBDCl, as the electrophilic substrates, different values of K m were obtained at high and low concentrations of the substrates. Cibacron blue, hematin, S -hexylglutathione, and oxidized glutathione inhibited the enzyme with I 50 values of 0.057 ± 0.004, 0.80 ± 0.2, 33 ± 2 μM, and 5.2 ± 0.3 mM, respectively. The nature of inhibition by each of these inhibitors is either competitive or non-competitive at varying GSH or CDNB as substrates. NADH and NAD + inhibited the enzyme with an I 50 value of 0.4 ± 0.01 and 11 ± 1 mM, respectively. NADH at a concentration of 0.54 mM completely abolished the activity. As part of its adaptation, the flexible kinetic pathway of detoxication by zvGST may assist the organism in coping with various xenobiotics encountered in its preferred food plants.
Effect of heat shock on a glutathione-synthesizing enzyme, gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase (gamma-GCS), and ATP-dependent outward transport of glutathione S-conjugate was characterized using K562 erythroid cells. When K562 cells grown at 37 degrees C were shifted to 42 degrees C for 2 h, an approximate 1.7-fold increase in the activity of gamma-GCS was observed. Treatment of K562 cells with erythropoietin (EP) for 12 h resulted in a decrease in the activity of gamma-GCS to 64% of the control. However, responsiveness of this enzyme activity in the cells treated with EP to heat shock was similar to that in untreated cells. Changes in the immunological activity of gamma-GCS were also observed in parallel with those in the enzymatic activity. On Northern blot analysis of total RNAs isolated from the cells with human cDNA for gamma-GCS, a substantial induction of mRNA level was found by heat shock and a reduction of EP. These changes were modest but correlated to the mRNA expression of a heat shock protein, HSP 70. Heat shock also had an effect of 1.8-fold stimulation on glutathione S-conjugate transport in K562 cells previously incubated with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Treatment of the cells with EP resulted in a decrease in this transport by 62%. Similarly, the levels of glutathione S-conjugate-stimulated Mg(2+)-ATPase, which enzyme is thought to be involved in the transport of glutathione S-conjugate, were responsive to heat shock and EP. These results suggest that glutathione synthesis and transport process of glutathione metabolites are responsive to heat shock and play a role in the defense system against stresses. It is also suggested that the regulatory site of the expression of these enzymes by heat shock is independent of that by EP.
Abstract ::: The effect of an oral dose of 20 mg of rifampin per kg per day on the immune response to killed Mycobacterium bovis var. BCG, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB), and sheep red blood cells (SRBC) was studied in adult female guinea pigs. Fully established cutaneous reactions to BCG or DNCB were markedly reduced during rifampin treatment but reverted to pretreatment levels after the drug was discontinued. When treatment was begun 7 days after immunization, positive reactions did not occur during drug administration but developed after cessation. When treatment was initiated 7 days before immunization, the response to these agents was completely suppressed during but also after rifampin was discontinued, suggesting that recognition and processing of the immunogens had been impaired. Rifampin had no effect on the secondary response to SRBC. When treatment was initiated either 7 days before or 2, 3, or 4 days after SRBC immunization, the primary response was abolished, but the reaction to a booster after drug withdrawal varied: some animals developed a normal secondary hemagglutinin response, but the majority reacted as if they had not been previously immunized. These studies indicate that rifampin is an active immunosuppressive agent in the guinea pig.
AIM ::: To explore the existence of glutathione S-transferase (GST) and superoxide dismutase (SOD) in Echinococcus granulosus cyst, and the effect of anthydatid drugs on these 2 enzymes, mice infected with E granulosus protoscoleces for 10-12 months were used. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: The activity of GST was measured by conjugation rate of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene with glutathione (reduced form), while the activity of SOD was measured by a modified autoxidation of 1, 2, 3-trihydroxy-benzene method. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Activities of both GST and SOD in the cyst wall were 12.3 +/- 4.3 to 13.5 +/- 4.8 mumol min-1/mg protein and 4.4 +/- 2.9 to 6.1 +/- 1.4 U min-1/mg protein, respectively. When infected mice were treated ig with mebendazole (Meb) 25 mg kg-1 d-1 for 14 d, the GST activity of both collapsed and full cyst walls were inhibited by 30.1% and 26.8%, respectively. Whereas SOD activity of the cyst walls were activated by 105%-163%. Albendazole 300 mg kg-1 d-1 for 14 d and praziquantel 500 mg kg-1 d-1 for 14 d had no apparent effect on both GST and SOD of E granulosus cyst wall. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: The results suggested that the inhibition of GST activity in the cyst wall induced by Meb might damage the defence system of the parasite.
The cDNA coding for rat liver microsomal glutathione transferase was subcloned into the mammalian expression vector pCMV-5 and the construct was transfected into, and transiently expressed in, simian COS cells. This resulted in high expression (0.7% of the microsomal protein). The activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in microsomes was 15-30 nmol/min per mg, which increased upon N-ethylmaleimide treatment to 60-200 nmol/min per mg. Control and antisense-vector-treated cells displayed very low activity (3-6 nmol/min per mg). A DNA fragment coding for rat microsomal glutathione transferase was generated by PCR, cloned into the bacterial expression vector pSP19T7LT and transformed into Escherichia coli strain BL21 (DE3) (which contained the plasmid pLys SL). Isopropyl beta-D-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG; 1 mM) induced the expression of significant amounts of enzymically active protein (4 mg/l of culture as measured by Western blots). The recombinant protein was purified and characterized and found to be indistinguishable from the rat liver enzyme with regard to enzymic activity, molecular mass and N-terminal amino acid sequence. Human liver cDNA was used to obtain the coding region of human microsomal glutathione transferase by PCR. This PCR product was cloned into pSP19T7LT, which, upon induction with IPTG, yielded significant amounts (9 mg/l of culture) of active enzyme in BL21 (DE3) cells. Thus, for the first time, it is now possible to express both human and rat microsomal glutathione transferase in an enzymically active form in Escherichia coli.
The present study assesses the contribution of genetic and environmental factors to variability in placental aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase and glutathione transferase activities using twin study methodology. Twin placentas were collected at the time of delivery. The placenta, except for a single layer of maternal decidua, consists of fetal tissue exhibiting fetal genotype. Microsomal and cytosolic fractions were prepared under stringent protocols to prevent enzyme activity loss. There were two monozygotic-monochorionic pairs, five monozygotic-dichorionic pairs, and 21 dizygotic-dichorionic pairs that showed measurable aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase activity using the direct fluorometric assay. Most of the mothers were smokers. Aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase activity was measured with two different substrates, benzo(a)pyrene and 7-ethoxyresorufin. Glutathione transferase activity was measured using glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrates for a spectrophotometric assay that follows the conversion of the aromatic substrate. Twin pair similarity was calculated with intraclass correlation coefficients. There is a high correlation between the activities of the two aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase substrates (r = .814), but no correlation between aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase and glutathione transferase activity levels. There is little evidence of genetic variability underlying the variation in the enzyme activities because monozygotic-dichorionic twins are no more similar to each other for the three substrate activities than are the dizygotic twins. To delineate the prenatal environmental influences on placental enzyme variability, dichorionic placentation was subdivided further into contiguous and noncontiguous placental position. Lower intraclass correlation coefficients are obtained for the dizygotic twins whose placentas were noncontiguous compared with dizygotic twins with contiguous placentas. The results suggest that most of the variability seen in these placental enzyme systems is due to environmental differences within uteri, rather than genetic variability in the population. This does not negate the possibility that between-pair, or population, variability may have a genetic component, because even dizygotic twins share a large proportion of their genes. This study points out that a significantly variable environment exists within the human uterus.
Multidrug resistance proteins (MRPs) are ATP-dependent export pumps that mediate the export of organic anions. ABCC1 (MRP1), ABCC2 (MRP2) and ABCC3 (MRP3) are all able to facilitate the efflux of anionic conjugates including glutathione (GSH), glucuronide and sulfate conjugates of xenobiotics and endogenous molecules. Earlier studies showed that ABCC4 functions as an ATP-driven export pump for cyclic AMP and cyclic GMP, as well as estradiol-17-beta-D-glucuronide. However, it was unclear if other conjugated metabolites can be transported by ABCC4. Hence in this study, a fluorescent substrate, bimane-glutathione (bimane-GS) was used to further examine the transport activity of ABCC4. Using cells stably overexpressing ABCC4, this study shows that ABCC4 can facilitate the efflux of the glutathione conjugate, bimane-glutathione. Bimane-glutathione efflux increased with time and >85% of the conjugate was exported after 15min. This transport was abolished in the presence of 2.5microM carbonylcyanide m-chlorophenylhydrasone (CCCP), an uncoupler of oxidative phosphorylation. Inhibition was also observed with known inhibitors of MRP transporters including benzbromarone, verapamil and indomethacin. In addition, 100microM methotrexate, an ABCC4 substrate or 100microM 6-thioguanine (6-TG), a compound whose monophosphate metabolite is an ABCC4 substrate, reduced efflux by >40%. A concentration-dependent inhibition of bimane-glutathione efflux was observed with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) which is metabolized intracellularly to the glutathione conjugate, 2,4-dinitrophenyl-glutathione (DNP-GS). The determination that ABCC4 can mediate the transport of glucuronide and glutathione conjugates indicates that ABCC4 may play a role in the cellular extrusion of Phase II detoxification metabolites.
Herbicide safener, a diverse group of chemicals, is an important tool used to protect plants from herbicidal injury. With the aim of decreasing drift injury of haloxyfop-P-methyl to sensitive plants, the protective effect of four safeners (R-28725, 3-dichloroacetyl oxazolidine and its two optical isomers) was evaluated. Physiological and biochemical tests were conducted under laboratory conditions in Northeast Agricultural University, China, by using seed treatment with safener and soil treatment with haloxyfop-P-methyl, respectively. The maize seeds treated with these safeners were safe from haloxyfop-P-methyl treatment. A positive correlation between growth level and endogenous glutathione (GSH) content, glutathione S-transferases (GST) activity was observed in this research. Enhancement of GSH content, GST activity and affinity of GST to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) in maize treated by R-28725 was maximum. However, the detoxification of herbicide was not accompanied by the increase of acetyl-CoA-carboxylase (ACC) activity in maize.
RESULTS: In this study, two cDNAs, CpGSTd1 and CpGSTd2, encoding glutathione S-transferase (GST) were cloned from Cx. pipiens Marin. Phylogenetic analysis of the deduced amino acid sequences, CpGSTD1 and CpGSTD2, of these genes indicated that they belong to the Delta class of insect GSTs. The nucleotide and deduced amino acid sequences of CpGSTd1 and CpGSTd2 were 59 and 48% identical respectively. CpGSTD1 and CpGSTD2 were expressed in Escherichia coli and purified by affinity chromatography. The recombinant GSTs exhibited unique selectivity towards the general GST substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB), and also differed in their sensitivity to known inhibitors of GSTs. CpGSTD1 exhibited peroxidase activity with cumene hydroperoxide, while CpGSTD2 appeared to lack this activity. CpGSTD1 was able to metabolize 1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis(4-chlorophenyl)ethane (DDT), while DDT metabolism by CpGSTD2 was not detectable. CpGSTD1 and CpGSTD2 showed no detectable metabolism of permethrin. Gene expression of CpGSTd1 and CpGSTd2 in Marin mosquitoes was elevated about twofold in comparison with that found in a pyrethroid-sensitive mosquito strain.
Atopic dermatitis (AD), also known as atopic eczema, is a chronic pruritic inflammatory skin disease. e available systemic therapies for atopic dermatitis are inadequate. Objective. is study aimed to evaluate the effects of the Chinese herbal formula Pei Tu Qing Xin (PTQX) on dermatitis severity and ear swelling, immunomodulation, and the infiltration of mast cells in a mouse model of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene-(DNCB-) induced AD. Methods. AD-like symptoms were induced by DNCB in NC/Nga mice. Skin lesions, dermatitis, ear swelling, and scratching behaviour were evaluated. Changes in the T-helper type 1 ( 1), 2, 17, and regulatory T (Treg) subtypes and immunoregulation in the spleen and lymph nodes were detected by flow cytometry. Results. Histopathological and immunohistochemical analyses demonstrated that PTQX decreased the DNCB-mediated induction of mast cells and infiltration of inflammatory cells in the ear and dorsal skin. PTQX also reduced the DNCB-induced increase in the serum immunoglobulin E level, pruritus, and dermatitis (red, flaky areas) on the dorsal skin. Furthermore, PTQX regulated the balance between the populations of 1, 2, 17, and Treg cells (particularly the latter two) in the lymph nodes. Conclusions. Our results suggest that the Chinese herbal formula PTQX can alleviate symptoms of AD, such as epithelial damage, redness, swelling, and pruritus, and potentially be used to treat this condition.
is study aimed to evaluate the therapeutic effects of PTQX on 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene-(DNCB-) induced AD-like symptoms in NC/Nga mice. We demonstrate here that PTQX can improve the symptoms of AD and reduce the inflammatory infiltration of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells into DNCB-induced skin lesions in these mice. We further evaluated the anti-inflammatory and antiallergic properties of PTQX in vivo and found that this treatment inhibited the total production of immunoglobulin E (IgE) as measured in serum, suppressed ear swelling, and significantly alleviated scratching behaviour. Furthermore, our experimental results demonstrate that PTQX inhibited the infiltration of mast and other inflammatory cells in skin lesions and regulated the /regulatory T (Treg) cell balance in lymphoid organs. Our findings suggest the potential therapeutic effects of the Chinese herbal formula PTQX against DNCB-induced ADlike skin lesions in NC/Nga mice.
Abstract Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are members of a multifunctional antioxidant enzyme superfamily that play pivotal roles in both detoxification and protection against oxidative damage caused by reactive oxygen species. In this study, a complementary DNA (cDNA) encoding a sigma class GST was identified in the Chinese honey bee, Apis cerana cerana (AccGSTS1). AccGSTS1 was constitutively expressed in all tissues of adult worker bees, including the brain, fat body, epidermis, muscle, and midgut, with particularly robust transcription in the fat body. Relative messenger RNA expression levels of AccGSTS1 at different developmental stages varied, with the highest levels of expression observed in adults. The potential function of AccGSTS1 in cellular defenses against abiotic stresses (cold, heat, UV, H 2 O 2 , HgCl 2 , and insecticides) was investigated. AccGSTS1 was significantly upregulated in response to all of the treatment conditions examined, although the induction levels were varied. Recombinant AccGSTS1 protein showed characteristic glutathione-conjugating catalytic activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Functional assays revealed that AccGSTS1 could remove H 2 O 2 , thereby protecting DNA from oxidative damage. Escherichia coli overexpressing AccGSTS1 showed long-term resistance under conditions of oxidative stress. Together, these results suggest that AccGSTS1 is a crucial antioxidant enzyme involved in cellular antioxidant defenses and honey bee survival.
Glutathione-S-transferase (GST) activity was determined in 36 species of rhizosphere bacteria with the substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and in 18 strains with the herbicide alachlor. Highest levels of CDNB-GST activity (60 to 222 nmol ⅐ h ؊1 ⅐ mg
1. Enzymes catalysing the reaction between GSH and methylparathion (dimethyl p-nitrophenyl phosphorothionate), 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and S-crotonyl-N-acetylcysteamine were separated by (NH4)2SO4 precipitation from homogenates of sheep, rat and mouse livers and from homogenates ofcockroaches, houseffies and grass grubs. 2. Electrofocusing of the preparations from each of these species separated a number of zones, each of which catalysed the reaction of GSH with all three substrates. 3. Ion-exchange chromatography on CM-cellulose also separated a number offractions in which activity towards the three substrates coincided. 4. In both separation methods patterns of the activities were consistent with the presence in all species of several GSH transferases each having a degree ofcross specificity towards the three substrates.
Herbicide safener, a diverse group of chemicals, is an important tool used to protect plants from herbicidal injury. With the aim of decreasing drift injury of haloxyfop-P-methyl to sensitive plants, the protective effect of four safeners (R-28725, 3-dichloroacetyl oxazolidine and its two optical isomers) was evaluated. Physiological and biochemical tests were conducted under laboratory conditions in Northeast Agricultural University, China, by using seed treatment with safener and soil treatment with haloxyfop-P-methyl, respectively. The maize seeds treated with these safeners were safe from haloxyfop-P-methyl treatment. A positive correlation between growth level and endogenous glutathione (GSH) content, glutathione S-transferases (GST) activity was observed in this research. Enhancement of GSH content, GST activity and affinity of GST to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) in maize treated by R-28725 was maximum. However, the detoxification of herbicide was not accompanied by the increase of acetyl-CoA-carboxylase (ACC) activity in maize.
In the following work1 ) the derivatives are described which were obtained when 2-aminopropanediol-1,3 and 3-aminopropanediol-1,2 were coupled with aromatic nitro-compounds containing a substitutive chlorine atom such as 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 1-chloro-2,4,6-trinitrobenzene, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitronaphthalene and 1,3-dichloro-4,6-dinitrobenzene. On nitration, the substances thus obtained gave explosive compounds which were comparable with a combination of trinitrophenylmethylnitramine (tetryl) and nitroglycerine. ::: ::: ::: ::: For comparison, the attempt has been made to couple d. glucosamine with aromatic halogen-nitro-compounds, and to nitrate the products so obtained.
Abstract Glutathione dependent enzymes have been implicated in the detoxification of organochlorine compounds by formation of GSH conjugates. 1 The insecticide DDT is detoxified in resistant houseflies by a glutathione dependent enzyme which is probably a glutathione- S -transferase. 2 Assays were carried out in accordance with the method of Habig et al . 7 The assay is based on the conjugation of a substrate such as 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene with GSH to produce a thioether compound by nucleophilic attack. The assay employed is sufficiently sensitive to enable measurement of enzyme activity on milligram quantities of mussel tissue. Our studies show that there is up to a 1·7-fold increase in glutathione- S -transferase activity in mussels which have been exposed to dieldrin. This enzyme assay has the advantages of being rapid, simple and convenient, and as it is widely distributed in nature, could form the basis for the early detection of a stress response in organisms exposed to organochlorine compounds.
An alpha-class glutathione transferase (GST) has been cloned from pig gonads. In addition to two conservative point mutations our nucleotide sequence presents a frame shift resulting from a missing A as compared to a previously published porcine GST A1-1 sequence. The deduced C-terminal amino-acid segment of the protein differs between the two variants. Repeated sequencing of cDNA isolated from different tissues and animals ruled out the possibility of a cloning artifact, and the deduced amino acid sequence of our clone showed higher similarity to related mammalian GST sequences. Hereafter, we refer to our cloned enzyme as GST A1-1 and to the previously published enzyme as GST A1-1(∗). The study of the tissue distribution of the GSTA1 mRNA revealed high expression levels in many organs, in particular adipose tissue, liver, and pituitary gland. Porcine GST A1-1 was expressed in Escherichia coli and its kinetic properties were determined using alternative substrates. The catalytic activity in steroid isomerization reactions was at least 10-fold lower than the corresponding values for porcine GST A2-2, whereas the activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was approximately 8-fold higher. Differences in the H-site residues of mammalian Alpha-class GSTs may explain the catalytic divergence.
The kinetics of alkaline hydrolysis of 2-chloro-3,5-dinitrobenzotrifluoride 1 and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene 2 were studied in various acetonitrile–water (AN–H2O) mixtures (10–90% w/w) at different temperatures. Thermodynamic parameters ΔH# and ΔS# show great variation, whereas ΔG# appears to vary little with the solvent composition presumably due to compensating variations. The results are discussed in terms of the solvent parameters such as preferential solvation, dielectric constant, polarity/polarizability, and hydrogen bond donor and acceptor parameters. It has been found that the factors controlling the reaction rates are the desolvation of OH−, the solvophobicity of the medium, and free water molecules in rich AN mixed solvent. The data showed that the solvatochromic parameters of (AN–H2O) mixed solvent are destroyed in the presence of excess OH−. © 2010 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Int J Chem Kinet 42: 453–463, 2010
accurate and reproducible visible spectro photometric method was developed for the estimation of cefepime in pure and vial formulation. Cefepime with 1-Chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in presence of dimethyl sulfoxide at 45 o C have formed a yellow colored complex having maximum absorbance at 420nm.The calibration graph was linear in the range 20µg/ml to50µ g/ml.
Human lung acidic glutathione S-transferase is irreversibly inhibited by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) in the absence of the co-substrate glutathione (GSH). The time-dependent inactivation is pseudo-first-order and demonstrates saturation kinetics, suggesting that inactivation occurs from an EI complex. The Ki was 0.14 mM; and kobs was 0.32 min-1 at 0.6 mM CDNB. The enzyme was protected against CDNB inactivation by GSH. The other two classes of glutathione S-transferase, the basic and near-neutral, are not significantly inactivated by CDNB. Incubation with [14C]CDNB indicated covalent binding to all three classes of transferase. One peptide fraction was found to be radiolabelled in both the basic and acidic transferases when these were incubated with [14C]CDNB and GSH, cleaved with cyanogen bromide, and chromatographed by HPLC. Incubation in the absence of GSH yielded one and two additional labelled peptide fractions for the basic and acidic transferases, respectively. Our results suggest that while CDNB arylates all three classes of human transferases, only the acidic transferase possesses a specific GSH-sensitive CDNB binding site, binding to which leads to time-dependent inactivation.
The secretion of a glutathione-S-conjugate, dinitrophenyl-glutathione (GS-DNP) was studied in the Caco-2 cells, a cultured human colonic adenocarcinoma cell line with many of the characteristics of enterocytes. The labelled glutathione conjugate was generated within the cell by incubation with 14C-labelled 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). This compound is hydrophobic and enters the cell by simple diffusion. Cells incubated with CDNB at 10 degrees C form only one metabolite, GS-DNP. After secretion into the medium GS-DNP is partly converted into one or two slightly more hydrophobic products. This must represent hydrolysis of the glutathione moiety by the action of gamma-glutamyltransferase (EC 2.3.2.2.; gamma-GT) because the reaction was completely inhibited by acivicin, an inhibitor of gamma-GT. Secretion of GS-DNP was a temperature-sensitive, saturable process with an apparent Km of 1.03 +/- 0.26 nmol/mg of protein and a Vmax of 111 +/- 17 pmol/min per mg of protein. The secretion was not sensitive to trans-stimulation by extracellular concentrations of GS-DNP up to 2.5 mM. Furthermore the initial GS-DNP secretion rate was sensitive to dissipation of the membrane potential and correlated closely with the cellular ATP content. Caco-2 cells cultured on nitrocellulose filters secreted GS-DNP significantly faster over the basolateral membrane than over the apical membrane (146 +/- 25 versus 90 +/- 18 pmol/min per mg respectively). Secretion over both membrane domains of the cell was sensitive to ATP depletion. In conclusion, Caco-2 cells contain an active-transport system that is primarily involved in the secretion of glutathione conjugates and that is present in both plasma membrane domains of the cell.
Abstract To elucidate the contribution of glutathione S-transferase (GST) and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) to the protection against oxidative stress in rat brain, we prepared GST and GPx from newborn rat liver, brain and cultured astrocytes, and investigated the characteristics and kinetics of the enzymes. The activity of cytosolic GST of the cultured astrocytes toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was much higher than that of GPx toward peroxides. The GST activity toward 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (4HNE) was almost the same as the GPx activity. GST isozymes were purified from the cytosolic fraction of the liver and astrocytes. In the case of the astrocytes, a major GST isozyme with an isoelectric point (pI) of 9.02 accounted for approximately 40% of total GST activity toward CDNB, while hepatic GST isozymes showed seven peaks in the basic region. Each of astrocytes and liver showed a single GST peak with high activity toward 4HNE, namely AVIII and LVIII, respectively, and both of them had a similar pI value of about 6.7. The kinetic parameters of AVIII and LVIII were found to be similar to each other. These data suggest that the same types of GST isozymes are expressed in the astrocytes and liver, and take part mainly in the detoxification of 4HNE.
Abstract Hepatic glutathione S-transferases (GSTs: EC2.5.1.1.8) catalyze the detoxification of reactive electrophilic compounds, many of which are toxic and carcinogenic intermediates, via conjugation with the endogenous tripeptide glutathione (GSH). Glutathione S-transferase (GST)-mediated detoxification is a critical determinant of species susceptibility to the toxic and carcinogenic mycotoxin aflatoxin B1 (AFB1), which in resistant animals efficiently detoxifies the toxic intermediate produced by hepatic cytochrome P450 bioactivation, the exo-AFB1-8,9-epoxide (AFBO). Domestic turkeys (Meleagris gallopavo) are one of the most sensitive animals known to AFB1, a condition associated with a deficiency of hepatic GST-mediated detoxification of AFBO. We have recently shown that unlike their domestic counterparts, wild turkeys (Meleagris gallopavo silvestris), which are relatively resistant, express hepatic GST-mediated detoxification activity toward AFBO. Because of the importance of GSTs in species susceptibility, and to explore possible GST classes involved in AFB1 detoxification, we amplified, cloned, expressed and functionally characterized the hepatic mu-class GSTs tGSTM3 (GenBank accession no. JF340152 ), tGSTM4 ( JF340153 ) from domestic turkeys, and a GSTM4 variant (ewGSTM4, JF340154 ) from Eastern wild turkeys. Predicted molecular masses of tGSTM3 and two tGSTM4 variants were 25.6 and 25.8 kDa, respectively. Multiple sequence comparisons revealed four GSTM motifs and the mu-loop in both proteins. tGSTM4 has 89% amino acid sequence identity to chicken GSTM2, while tGSTM3 has 73% sequence identity to human GSTM3 (hGSTM3). Specific activities of Escherichia coli-expressed tGSTM3 toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and peroxidase activity toward cumene hydroperoxide were five-fold greater than tGSTM4 while tGSTM4 possessed more than three-fold greater activity toward 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB). The two enzymes displayed equal activity toward ethacrynic acid (ECA). However, none of the GSTM proteins had AFBO detoxification capability, in contrast to recombinant alpha-class GSTs shown in our recent study to possess this important activity. In total, our data indicate that although turkey hepatic GSTMs may contribute to xenobiotic detoxification, they probably play no role in detoxification of AFBO in the liver.
High glutathione S-transferase activity was found in the cytosol of F-cells from the hepatopancreas of the blue crab (Callinectes sapidus). Purification of glutathione S-transferase from hepatopancreas extracts by Sephadex G-200, DEAE-Sephacel, and chromatofocusing resulted in the isolation of two isozymes with isoelectric points of 5.9 and 5.7, as determined by analytical isoelectric focusing. Using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as the substrate the specific activities of the two purified isozymes were 222 and 182 mumol/min/mg, respectively. There was no evidence for basic transferase isozymes. In addition to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene the purified glutathione S-transferase isozymes showed activity with p-nitrophenyl acetate, p-nitrobenzyl chloride, bromosulfophthalein, and benzopyrene oxide. Thus, both substitution and addition reactions associated with vertebrate glutathione S-transferase were found in the crab transferases. There was no when ethacrynic acid, methyl iodide, trans-4-phenyl-3-buten-2-one, 1,2-epoxy-(p-nitrophenoxy)propane, cumene hydroperoxide, and t-butyl hydroperoxide were used as substrates. The lack of peroxidase activity is of interest since this activity is commonly found in vertebrate transferase isozymes. The two transferases had a dimeric Mr of 40,800 with similar amino acid compositions and similar kinetic parameters (Vmax, Km, and pH maxima) with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate. The two transferases could be distinguished by their isoelectric points, molecular mass of the monomers (22,300 for GST 1 and 22,300 and 22,400 for GST 2), and different inhibitor mechanisms with hematin and bromosulfophthalein.
BACKGROUND ::: Glutathione transferase (GST) catalyzes glutathione conjugation, a major detoxification pathway for xenobiotics and endogenous substances. Here, we determined the crystal structure of a Delta-class GST from Bombyx mori (bmGSTD) to examine its catalytic residues. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: The three-dimensional structure of bmGSTD was resolved by the molecular replacement method and refined to a resolution of 2.0Å. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Structural alignment with a Delta-class GST of Anopheles gambiae indicated that bmGSTD contains 2 distinct domains (an N-terminal domain and a C-terminal domain) connected by a linker. The bound glutathione localized at the N-terminal domain. Putative catalytic residues were changed to alanine by site-directed mutagenesis, and the resulting mutants were characterized in terms of catalytic activity using glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, a synthetic substrate of GST. Kinetic analysis of bmGSTD mutants indicated that Ser11, Gln51, His52, Ser67, and Arg68 are important for enzyme function. ::: ::: ::: GENERAL SIGNIFICANCE ::: These results provide structural insights into the catalysis of glutathione conjugation in B. mori by bmGSTD.
The coding sequences of a wild type glutathione transferase (GST) Epsilon 4 and three isoenzymes were obtained by RT-PCR from a Thai malaria mosquito, Anopheles dirus. After confirmation by sequencing, the RT-PCR products were subcloned into an expression vector and proteins were expressed, purified, and biochemically characterized to study the function of these enzymes and for comparison with two orthologs from An. gambiae (agGSTE4-4) and Aedes aegypti (aaGSTE4-4). The results showed that An. dirus GST Epsilon 4 (adGSTE4-4) shares more than 85% amino acid sequence similarity with agGSTE4-4 and aaGSTE4- 4. However, adGSTE4-4 possesses a greater catalytic efficiency (k cat /K m ) for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as well as greater activities for several other substrates compared with agGSTE4-4 and aaGSTE4-4. Moreover, adGSTE4-4 enzyme possesses peroxidase and DDT dehydrochlorinase activities while these activities were not observed for agGSTE4-4. In addition, adGSTE4-4 binds two pyrethroid insecticides (permethrin and l- cyhalothrin) with a relatively high affinity. We conclude that adGSTE4-4, unlike agGSTE4-4, can contribute to DDT resistance by DDT dehydrochlorinase activity as well as to pyrethroid resistance by sequestration and protection against oxidation from secondary pyrethroid metabolites via its peroxidase activity.
The protective effects of lobenzarit, an antioxidative agent and antirheumatic drug, on the cytotoxicity of paracetamol in rat hepatocytes were studied, as well as the inhibitory effects of lobenzarit on cytochrome P-450s and glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) in rat liver. Paracetamol was selected as a model toxin, since it is known to be bioactivated by specific cytochrome P-450s presumably to N-acetyl-p-benzoquinoneimine, a reactive metabolite which upon overdosage of paracetamol causes protein and non-protein thiol depletion, lipid peroxidation and cytotoxicity measurable as LDH leakage. At concentrations of lobenzarit of 0.2 and 0.3 mM, added 30 min before paracetamol, the drug prevented paracetamol-induced leakage of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) almost completely and lipid peroxidation (LPO) and depletion of glutathione (GSH) substantially and also the formation of the 3-glutathionyl conjugate of paracetamol. However, at a concentration of 0.05 mM Lobenzarit did not protect anymore against the paracetamol toxicity, When added to the hepatocytes 1 h and 2 h before paracetamol, 0.05 and 0.2 and 0.3 mM concentrations of lobenzarit did not protect against the cytotoxicity induced by paracetamol either. Lobenzarit did not inhibit cytochromes P-450 1A1/1A2, 2B1/2B2 and 2E1 which were measured as ethoxyresorufin O-deethylation (EROD) activity in beta-naphthoflavone-induced rat liver microsomes, as pentoxyresorufin de-pentylation (PROD) activity in phenobarbital-induced microsomes and as p-nitrophenol hydroxylation (PNPH) activity in pyrazol-induced microsomes. Lobenzarit did not show inhibition of glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) in cytosol from liver of rats treated with phenobarbital, pyrazol and beta-naphthoflavone either. It is concluded that the cytoprotective effect of lobenzarit is most likely due to its antioxidant effects and/or to its ability to stimulate GSH reductase.
The action of cyclohexylamine on 1-chloro-2-nitrobenzene, 1-chloro-4-nitrobenzene, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, and 1-chloro-2,4,6-trinitrobenzene has been investigated. The nitro-cyclohexylaminobenzenes so found were nitrated and 2,4,6-trinitrophenylcyclohexylnitramine, a colourless explosive product, similar to 2,4,6-trinitrophenylmethylnitramine or the well-known explosive, tetryl, was obtained.
Four cytosolic glutathione S-transferase (GST) classes were isolated and characterized from juvenile winter run Chinook salmon (Oncorhynchus tshawytscha) liver. Two techniques were used: (1) gel electrophoresis/immunoblotting against a polyclonal striped bass GST antibody and (2) high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC). Nanospray liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) was used to elucidate peptide sequences and the proteins were identified as pi, theta, mu and alpha, by searching against the NCBI non-redundant database (nrDB). Catalytic activity of the cytosolic GSTs towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and ethacrynic acid (ETHA) were determined to be 0.3+/-0.05 U/mg cytosolic protein and 0.06+/-0.02 U/mg cytosolic protein, respectively.
The physiological roles of the glutathione S-transferases, by whatever name, seem to result in detoxification. As is true of albumin, members of this group of proteins bind an enormous number of compounds that appear to have in common only hydrophobic topography; the binding of bilirubin is an example of a major function common to all higher species. If the ligand bears a sufficiently electrophilic center, it will be attacked by the nucleophile GSH; such compounds would be the substrates of the enzyme. And should such a ligand be extraordinarily reactive--as, for example, some of the epoxide carcinogens generated by the cytochrome P450-linked, mixed-function oxidases, or even 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene--then reaction may occur either with GSH or irreversibly with the transferase itself. By reason of the wide distribution and high intracellular concentration of these proteins, there appears to be sufficient enzyme for all three roles in detoxification.
A number of animal studies indicate that coffee protects against chemical induction of cancer; also human studies suggest that coffee consumption is inversely related with the incidence of different forms of cancer. The protective effects were attributed to induction of glutathione-S-transferases (GSTs) and aim of the present human study was to find out if coffee causes induction of GSTs and protects against DNA-damage caused by (+/-)-anti-B[a]P-7,8-dihydrodiol-9,10-epoxide (BPDE), the DNA-reactive metabolite of benzo(a)pyrene. Ten participants consumed 1L unfiltered coffee/d over 5 days. Before and after the intervention, saliva and blood were collected and the overall GST activity was measured with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). Additionally, GSTP and GSTA were determined in plasma with immunoassays. In blood, only weak (p=0.042) induction of GST (CDNB) was found. Furthermore, pronounced (three-fold) induction of GSTP was observed in blood, whereas GSTA was not altered. No correlations were seen between induction of GST (CDNB) and GSTP activities and the GSTP1 genotypes of the participants. Also clinical parameters (creatinine, alanine, aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, alkaline phosphatase), which are markers for organ damage, were monitored. None of them was altered by coffee, but serum cholesterol levels were slightly (not significantly) enhanced. In a second trial (n=7), GSTP induction by unfiltered and paper filtered coffees, differing in cafestol and kahweol contents, were compared. The participants consumed 1L coffee/d over 3 days. Again significant (three-fold) induction of GSTP was observed. The effects seen with the two coffees were identical, indicating that the diterpenoid concentrations are not responsible for the effects. In a further trial (n=7), the effect of coffee (unfiltered, 1L/d, 5 days) on BPDE induced DNA-migration was studied in comet assays. A 45% reduction effect was observed. Our findings show that coffee induces GSTP in humans and indicate that consumption may lead to protection towards polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons.
Abstract The liberation of free fluoride ion from fluoroacetate (FAc) proceeds as an enzymecatalyzed dehalogenation reaction in the soluble fractions of several organs of the CFW Swiss mouse. Liver contained the highest FAc defluorinating activity. The enzyme activity in other organs decreased in the order kidney > lung > heart > testes. No activity was detected in the brain. Experiments were designed to characterize and identify the enzyme species responsible for FAc metabolism in liver. Enzyme activity was dependent on the concentration of glutathione (GSH) in the assay mixture, with maximal activity occurring above 5 m m . The dehalogenation of FAc had an apparent K m of 7.0 m m when measured in the presence of a saturating concentration of GSH. An increase in the pH of the assay mixture enhanced fluoride release in both phosphate and borate buffer. The defluorination activity was reduced to negligible levels when stored for 24 h at 4 °C. The addition of either GSH, dithiothreitol, or 2-mercaptoethanol increased stability, with the latter providing protection for greater than 150 h at a concentration of 15 m m . DEAE anion-exchange chromatography separated the defluorinating activity from 90% of the soluble GSH S -transferase activity measured with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. FAc defluorination activity did not bind to a GSH affinity column which selectively separates it from a group of anionic GSH S -transferases. The GSH-dependent enzyme which dehalogenates FAc has unique properties and can be separated from the liver GSH S -transferases previously described in the literature.
We examined the roles of glutathione S-transferase (GST) P1-1 and the glutathione S-conjugate (GS-X) transporter, multidrug resistance protein 1 (MRP1), singly or in combination, in the detoxification of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). Derivatives of MCF7 breast carcinoma cells expressing GST P1-1 and MRP1 alone or in combination were developed. Detoxification was measured in cells as formation of the glutathione conjugate of CDNB, S-(2,4-dinitrophenyl)-glutathione (DNP-SG), efflux of DNP-SG, and ultimately protection from CDNB cytotoxicity. MRP1 expression in the absence of GST P1-1 confers a three- to fourfold resistance to CDNB, which is associated with a >10-fold increase in the maximum rate of DNP-SG efflux. DNP-SG efflux in MRP1-expressing MCF7 cells was ATP-dependent and exhibited an apparent Km for DNP-SG of 95 microM. MRP1 expression alone, however, had no effect on DNP-SG formation. Combined expression of GST P1-1 and MRP1 increased the rates of DNP-SG formation when cells were exposed to 10 microM CDNB. Moreover, combined expression of GSTP1-1 with MRP1 moderately augmented MRP1-mediated resistance to CDNB but only during short term (10 min) exposures to CDNB where IC50 values were in the 8-10 microM range. In contrast, expression of GST P1-1 in the absence of MRP1 slightly sensitized cells to the toxicity of CDNB (10 min exposures), despite increasing rates of DNP-SG formation. The sensitization to CDNB in cells expressing GST P1-1 alone was associated with increased intracellular accumulation of DNP-SG, indicating that DNP-SG may contribute to CDNB toxicity. The potential toxicity of DNP-SG is also suggested by the finding that inhibition of DNP-SG formation by prior glutathione depletion confers resistance to CDNB cytotoxicity in MRP1-poor MCF7 cells. Altogether, our results demonstrate that glutathione conjugation and MRP1-mediated conjugate efflux can operate together to confer resistance to CDNB. The data indicate that MRP1-mediated conjugate efflux is required for cytoprotection from CDNB because its conjugate (DNP-SG), when present at high intracellular levels, may also be toxic to cells.
Glutathione transferases (GSTs) are a family of multifunctional enzymes with fundamental roles in cellular detoxication. Here we report the molecular characterization of 3 recombinant GSTs belonging to the mu- and delta-class from the parasitic mite Sarcoptes scabiei. Kinetic constants were determined, and the effect of acaricides, including organothiophosphates, pyrethroid esters, a formamidine, a macrocyclic lactone, an organochlorine as well as a bridged diphenyl acaricide, on the activity of the GSTs were tested using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as model substrate. Our results showed that enzymes from the same class and with high amino acid sequence identity have significantly different kinetic properties. For instance, one mu-class GST lost more than 50% of its activity in the presence of one of the organothiophosphates while the activity of the second mu-class GST was only slightly reduced under identical conditions. Tertiary structure modulations indicated that structural differences were the crucial factor for the different kinetic patterns observed. Genome analysis showed that the two mu-class GSTs are organized in tandem in the S. scabiei genome. Taken together these results show that GSTs might be involved in the metabolism of acaricides in S. scabiei.
The effects of 1,2,4-trichlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (1,2,4-TrCDD) on drug-metabolizing-enzymes have been studied in male Wistar rats. 1,2,4-TrCDD (0.1 mmol/kg per day) was administered by i.p. injection for 3 days. Among the cytochrome P-450 (P450)-mediated monooxygenase activities tested, 7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase, which is associated with CYP1A1, was remarkably induced by 1,2,4-TrCDD (0.1 mmol/kg). The relative induction to control activity was 32.9-fold. Also, 1,2,4-TrCDD increased other CYP1A-mediated monooxygenase activities such as 7-ethoxycoumarin O-deethylase, 4-nitroanisole O-demethylase, 7-methoxyresorufin O-demethylase and caffeine N-demethylase from 5.7- to 1.9-fold. Western immunoblotting showed that the levels of CYP1A1 and CYP1A2 proteins in liver microsomes were increased by 1,2,4-TrCDD. On the other hand, 7-pentoxyresorufin O-depentylase activity was induced 2.6-fold whereas aniline 4-hydroxylase, nitrosodimethylamine N-demethylase and erythromycin N-demethylase activities were increased slightly (1.3-, 1.6- and 1.3-fold, respectively) by 1,2,4-TrCDD. However, aminopyrine N-demethylase was not significantly induced by 1,2,4-TrCDD. Of the Phase II drug-metabolizing enzymes, DT-diaphorase and glutathione S-transferase (GST) activities towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, and those of UDP-glucuronyltransferase (UGT) towards 4-nitrophenol and 7-hydroxycoumarin were increased from 2.7 to 1.4-fold by 1,2,4-TrCDD. These results indicate that 1,2,4-TrCDD induces both Phase I and Phase II drug-metabolizing enzymes in the rat liver.
As recently reported, B-003 (6-S-hexadecyl-2-methoxythioascorbic acid) shows strong inhibition of the N-formylmethionylleucyl phenylalanine (fMLP)-stimulated neutrophil superoxide production and degranulation ex vivo, which is not correlated with its antioxidant properties. Structure-activity studies with 12 derivatives. together with permeation studies, pointed to a process for uptake of B-003 but not its regioisomer B-015 into neutrophils and revealed the importance of the free acidic enolic hydroxyl group in the 3-position of ascorbic acid and of a long chain alkyl group having a chain length of C16-C18 for effective inhibition. We now report that B-003 also strongly suppressed C5a-, concanavalin A-, and calcium ionophore A23187-stimulated superoxide formation, whereas protein kinase C-mediated activation by phorbol ester remained unaffected. The fMLP- or C5a-induced calcium mobilization form intracellular stores of fura-2-loaded cells, as well as the fMLP- or A23187-triggered release of [14C] arachidonate from prelabeled neutrophils, was not affected by B-003. The observed release of GSH was not causally related to inhibition of the oxidative burst, because GSH depletion by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was without effect on the fMLP-stimulated superoxide formation or on the inhibitory effect of B-003. In a cell-free system, consisting of a light membrane fraction and a cytosol fraction from resting neutrophils, B-003 inhibited the arachidonate-induced assembly of the NADPH-oxidase under conditions where particulate NADPH-oxidase from phorbol ester-preactivated neutrophils and catalytically active cell-free assembled oxidase were not affected. The inhibitory effect was more pronounced when the system was incubated in the presence of the G protein activator guanosine-59-O-(3-thio)triphosphate (GTP gamma S). [35S]GTP gamma S binding studies excluded displacement of the G protein activator from guanine nucleotide binding sites by B-003. In vitro assembly/co-sedimentation experiments in the presence of GTP gamma S revealed a 2-fold increase in a small cytosolic G protein with a molecular mass of 21 kDa (p21) in pelleted membranes, as detected by [35S]GTP gamma S protein blot probing, that was not affected by B-003. Structure-activity relationship studies of the effects of various 6-S-alkylascorbyl derivatives on the GTP gamma S/arachidonate-triggered assembly of the NADPH-oxidase showed strong dependence of the inhibition on the alkyl chain length, with long chain alkyl derivatives (C16 and C18) being most effective.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The procedure developed for purification of the N-ethylmaleimide-activated microsomal glutathione transferase was applied successfully to isolation of this same enzyme in unactivated form. The microsomal glutathione transferases, the unactivated and activated forms, were shown to be identical in terms of molecular weight, immunochemical properties, and amino acid composition. In addition the microsomal glutathione transferase purified in unactivated form could be activated 15-fold with N-ethylmaleimide to give the same specific activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as that observed for the enzyme isolated in activated form. This activation involved the binding of one molecule N-ethylmaleimide to the single cysteine residue present in each polypeptide chain of the enzyme, as shown by amino acid analysis, determination of sulfhydryl groups by 2,2'-dithiopyridyl and binding of radioactive N-ethylmaleimide. Except for the presence of only a single cysteine residue and the total absence of tryptophan, the amino acid composition of the microsomal glutathione transferase is not remarkable. The contents of aspartic acid/asparagine + glutamic acid/glutamine, of basic amino acids, and of hydrophobic amino acids are 15%, 12% and 54% respectively. The isoelectric point of the enzyme is 10.1. Microsomal glutathione transferase conjugates a wide range of substrates with glutathione and also demonstrates glutathione peroxidase activity with cumene hydroperoxide, suggesting that it may be involved in preventing lipid peroxidation. Of the nine substrates identified here, the enzymatic activity towards only two, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and cumene hydroperoxide, could be increased by treatment with N-ethylmaleimide. This treatment results in increases in both the apparent Km values and V values for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and cumene hydroperoxide. Thus, although clearly distinct from the cytosolic glutathione transferases, the microsomal enzyme shares certain properties with these soluble enzymes, including a relative abundance, a high isoelectric point and a broad substrate specificity. The exact role of the microsomal glutathione transferase in drug metabolism, as well as other possible functions, remains to be established.
The presence of theta-class glutathione S-transferase (GST) in marmoset monkey liver cytosol was investigated. An anti-peptide antibody targeted against the C-terminus of rGSTT1 reacted with a single band in marmoset liver cytosol that corresponded to a molecular weight of 28 kDa. The intensity of the immunoreactive band was not affected by treatment of marmoset monkeys with 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin, phenobarbitone, rifampicin or clofibric acid. Similarly, activity towards methyl chloride (MC) was unaffected by these treatments. However, GST activity towards 1,2-epoxy- 3-(p-nitrophenoxy)-propane (EPNP) was increased in marmosets treated with phenobarbitone (2.6-fold) and rifampicin (2.6-fold), activity towards dichloromethane (DCM) was increased by 50% after treatment of marmosets with clofibric acid, and activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was raised slightly (30–42% increases) after treatment with phenobarbitone, rifampicin or clofibric acid. Compared with humans, marmoset liver cytosol GST activity towards DCM was 18-fold higher, activity towards MC was 7 times higher and activity towards CDNB was 4 times higher. Further, EPNP activity was clearly detectable in marmoset liver cytosol samples, but was undetectable in human samples. Immunoreactive marmoset GST was partially purified by affinity chromatography using hexylglutathione-Sepharose and Orange A resin. The interaction of immunoreactive marmoset GST was similar to that found previously for rat and human GSTT1, suggesting that this protein is also a theta class GST. However, unlike rat GSTT1, the marmoset enzyme was not the major catalyst of EPNP conjugation. Instead, immunoreactivity was closely associated with activity towards MC. In conclusion, these results provide evidence for the presence of theta-class GST in the marmoset monkey orthologous to rGSTT1 and hGSTT1.
The hepatotoxic metabolite of the anticonvulsant drug valproic acid (VPA), namely (E)-2-propyl-2,4-pentadienoic acid (E)-2,4-diene VPA), is known to react with glutathione (GSH) in vivo. Although glutathione-S-transferase (GST) was suspected of being the catalyst for this conjugation reaction, this was yet to be confirmed. In this study, GST activities were detected in the hepatic cytosolic and sonic-disrupted mitoplast fractions isolated from male Sprague-Dawley rats by using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as a substrate. An elevation of GST activities by 45 to 100% was observed after pretreatment of rats with phenobarbital (PB). Subsequently, these apparent GST activities were examined for their effects on the in vivo conjugation of GSH with N-acetyl-S-((E)-2-propyl-2,4-pentadienoyl)cysteamine (2,4-diene VPA-NACA), a structural mimic of (E)-2,4-diene VPA coenzyme A thioester. Reaction products were identified and quantitated by combined liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. The GST-mediated conjugation of GSH with 2,4-diene VPA-NACA produced two structural isomers via either 5,6- or 1,6-addition of GSH. Only the 1,6- addition product was found for the spontaneous conjugation reaction (control). Quantitatively, GSH conjugates formed in the cytosolic fraction were 23-fold that of control. An additional 1.5-fold enhancement was observed in the cytosolic fraction from PB-treated rats. The production of the GSH conjugates was increased by 2-fold for reactions involving the sonic-disrupted mitoplasts, either from untreated or PB-treated rats. Partially purified GST was found to catalyze the conjugation reactions in a fashion similar to that of the isolated subcellular fractions. No reaction with GSH could be detected for the free acid form of (E)-2,4-diene VPA. As was the case with the in vitro data, two structural isomers of GSH conjugates were detected in the bile of rats that received (E)-2,4-diene VPA. These results indicate that in vivo production of the GSH conjugates of (E)-2,4-diene VPA is most likely catalyzed by GST enzymes, with the esterified diene being essential for the conjugation reaction. In a separate experiment, 2,4-diene VPA-NACA was observed to alkylate reduced oxytocin through one or both cysteine residues. Thus, the toxicity of (E)-2,4-diene VPA might be produced via either GST-promoted depletion of cellular GSH, or a direct modification of key proteins, or both.
Fluorescence spectroscopy and inhibition kinetics were used to quantitate the affinity of nonsubstrate ligands for the rat liver glutathione S-transferases AA, A, B, and C in the presence of glutahione. The dissociation constants KD, for ligands such as bilirubin, indocyanine green, and hematin were determined by measuring the decrease in the intrinsic fluorescence of the proteins attendant on the addition of ligand. A second technique, used for compounds which absorb strongly at the excitation maxima of tryptophan, was to utilize 8-anilinonaphthalen sulfonate in the formation of protein complex fluorescing at a higher wavelength. The quenching of this complex allowed the determination of the dissociation constants for ligands such as 3,6-dibromosulfophthalein and cephalothin. These data indicate that all four proteins bind these ligands but do so with different affinities. The bilirubin-induced decrease in fluorescence was used to estimate the stoichiometry of binding as 1.2 mol of bilirubin bound/mol of transferase B and 0.7 mol/mol of transferase C. All of the ligands examine are inhibitors of catalytic activity, as tested in a standard assay with GSH and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrates. From these studies we conclude that these proteins have a broad specificity not only for their substrates, but for the binding of nonsubstrate ligands as well.
Subcellular fractions were isolated from Chinese fetal liver at 4-8 months of age for the determination of glutathione S-transferase (GST). Using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrate, GST activity was found to be 66 +/- 34 nmol/(min.mg protein), mainly in the cytosol. The GST activities were detected principally in microsomes and their values were 66 +/- 31 and 144 +/- 83 nmol/(min.mg protein), respectively, when assayed with p-nitrobenzyl chloride (PNB) and ethacrynic acid (EA) as substrates. There were no age and sex-related differences in GST activities for any of the substrates studied during fetal development. The Km values of GST for CDNB, PNB and EA were 1112, 1039 and 205 mumol/L, respectively. The conjugation of GST may play an important role in fetal hepatic metabolism of toxic electrophiles.
The single glutathione S-transferase (EC 2.5.1.18) present in rat erythrocytes was purified to apparent homogeneity by affinity chromatography on glutathione-Sepharose and hydroxyapatite chromatography. Approx. 1.86 mg enzyme is found in 100 ml packed erythrocytes and accounts for about 0.01% of total soluble protein. The native enzyme (Mr 48,000) displays a pI of 5.9 and appears to possess a homodimeric structure with a subunit of Mr 23,500. Enzyme activities with ethacrynic acid and cumene hydroperoxide were 24 and 3%, respectively, of that with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. The Km values for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and glutathione were 1.0 and 0.142 mM, respectively. The concentrations of certain compounds required to produce 50% inhibition (I50) were as follows: 12 microM bromosulphophthalein, 34 microM S-hexylglutathione, 339 microM oxidized glutathione and 1.5 mM cholate. Bromosulphophthalein was a noncompetitive inhibitor with respect to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (Ki = 8 microM) and glutathione (Kis = 4 microM; Kii = 11.5 microM) while S-hexylglutathione was competitive with glutathione (Ki = 5 microM).
The induction by the central stimulant picrotoxin of hepatic drug-metabolizing enzymes was studied in rats. The hepatic content of P450 and the activity of benzphetamine N-demethylation increased gradually after administration of picrotoxin dissolved in drinking water (2 mg/mL), to three-times higher levels than the initial values at the third day of treatment. The increase in benzphetamine N-demethylase activity by picrotoxin was somewhat higher than the increase produced by phenobarbital. Supporting these results, immunoblot analysis showed that CYP2B1 and 2B2 proteins in the liver microsomes were increased by picrotoxin Picrotoxinin and picrotin, which are components of the picrotoxin molecule, had the same ability to induce the hepatic activity of benzphetamine N-demethylation. The liver microsomal activities of testosterone 16 alpha- and 16 beta-hydroxylation were enhanced significantly after treatment with picrotoxinin and picrotin. However, benzo[a]pyrene 3-hydroxylation, aniline 4-hydroxylation, and testosterone hydroxylations at the 2 alpha- and 7 alpha-positions were not increased by picrotoxinin and picrotin treatment. In addition to monooxygenase, significant induction of glutathione S-transferase activity for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and UDP-glucuronyltransferase activity for 4-hydroxybiphenyl and 4-nitrophenol was also observed by pretreatment of picrotoxin. These results clearly indicate that picrotoxin is an inducer of phenobarbital-inducible liver enzymes.
The reaction mechanism of nucleophilic aromatic substitution of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene by glutathione (as modeled by a thiomethoxide ion) in the gas phase and in solution was elucidated using ab initio molecular orbital theory in combination with a continuum solvent model at the HF/6-31G*, HF/6-31+G**, and MP2/6-31+G** levels of theory. Two ion−molecule complexes were located in the gas phase at the HF level, but only one exits at the MP2/6-31+G** level, while neither exits in aqueous solution. In aqueous solution, there is a large free energy barrier and C−S bond formation is the rate-determining step, which is in agreement with experimental observation. The calculated free energy barrier (30.2 kcal/mol) at the HF/6-31+G** level of theory seems to be in good agreement with experiment (23.8 kcal/mol), while the MP2/6-31+G** barrier is too low, indicating that the MP2/6-31+G** level of theory probably overestimates the stability of the transition state for C−S bond formation. Implications for the mode...
The activities of three drug conjugation reactions, glutathione, glucuronic acid and sulphate conjugation and the synthesis of glutathione, have been measured in hepatocytes isolated from streptozotocin-induced male diabetic rats. The intracellular content of reduced glutathione (GSH) was decreased in diabetic rat hepatocytes compared with controls. Following depletion of the intracellular GSH stores with diethylmaleate, the resynthesis of GSH in the presence of 0.5 mM L-methionine, occurred faster in diabetic rat hepatocytes than in those from control rats indicating that the cystathione pathway may be more efficient in the diabetic animals. In contrast, there was no significant difference in the resynthesis of GSH between control and diabetic rat hepatocytes in the presence of L-cysteine. The GSH conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and 3,4-dichloronitrobenzene (DCNB) was deficient in diabetic rat hepatocytes, although only the effect on the former reaction was statistically significant (P less than 0.05). The Vmax for CDNB conjugation was significantly lower (P less than 0.05) in cytosolic fractions prepared from diabetic rat liver than in control rat liver fractions. This was accompanied by an increase in the affinity of the enzyme for CDNB. In contrast, the Vmax and Km for the conjugation of DCNB in cytosolic fractions were unaffected by the induced-diabetes. Glucuronic acid conjugation of both 1-naphthol and phenolphthalein was markedly deficient in diabetic rat hepatocytes. The intracellular concentrations of the cofactor for glucuronidation, UDP-glucuronic acid, were decreased in diabetic rat liver and this was thought to contribute to the defect in glucuronidation. The sulphation of 1-naphthol was not significantly altered by the induced diabetes. Deficiencies in glutathione and glucuronic acid conjugation in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats may result in an increased susceptibility to xenobiotic induced cytotoxicity.
The effect of thioacetamide (TA), an hepatotoxic and hepatocarcinogenic compound, on the expression and activity of the cytosolic enzyme glutathione-S-transferase (GST) was studied in rat liver. Four h following the administration of 14C-labeled thioacetamide (10 mg/Kg), several subunits of GST were found to be radioactively labeled. A single sublethal dose of TA (250 mg/Kg) decreased by three-fold the expression of classα GST at 24-48 h of treatment, but did not significantly affect the transcription of class μ GST. The activity of the enzyme toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was mildly inhibited (66% of the control) by a 24 h TA treatment and gradually increased thereafter. It is proposed that the covalent binding of TA or its derivative to the GST subunits does not affect the activity of the enzyme. Nevertheless, GST activity inhibition is due to the deleterious effect of TA on GST transcription.
Abstract The reaction of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) with reduced glutathione in the absence and presence of glutathione transferases from larvae of the southern armyworm, Spodoptera eridania , produced the conjugate 2,4-dinitrophenyl S -glutathione with identical uv absorption spectra. The extinction coefficient was 10.63 m M −1 cm −1 at 340 nm (λ max ). Kinetics of spontaneous conjugation in 0.1 M Tris-HCl buffer (pH 8.0) at 30°C indicated that a reversible complex between CDNB and glutathione preceded the formation of the stable conjugate. The kinetic parameters associated with these two steps were 2.9 × 10 −2 M and 0.22 min −1 for the dissociation equilibrium constant ( K d ) and the first order rate constant of conjugation ( k c ), respectively. Glutathione transferase activity was present almost exclusively in the cytosolic fractions of the gut, head capsule, integument, and fat body of the last instar larva of the southern armyworm. Among the above tissue preparations, the head capsule and gut showed the highest activity per unit protein. Hemolymph glutathione transferase activity was approximately double the activity of the head and gut. The transferase activity from the hemolymph and gut exhibited identical K m values for CDNB and glutathione. This, in addition to a high correlation between the activity of the hemolymph and gut in individual larvae, argues that the two activities are due to the same enzyme(s) and are regulated by similar factors.
Ellagic acid (EA), a naturally occurring plant polyphenol possesses broad chemoprotective properties. Dietary EA has been shown to reduce the incidence of N-2-fluorenylacetamide-induced hepatocarcinogenesis in rats and N-nitrosomethylbenzylamine (NMBA)-induced rat esophageal tumors. In this study changes in the expression and activities of specific rat hepatic and esophageal mucosal cytochromes P450 (P450) and phase II enzymes following dietary EA treatment were investigated. Liver and esophageal mucosal microsomes and cytosol were prepared from three groups of Fisher 344 rats which were fed an AIN-76 diet containing no EA or 0.4 or 4.0 g/kg EA for 23 days. In the liver total P450 content decreased by up to 25% and P450 2E1-catalyzed p-nitrophenol hydroxylation decreased by 15%. No changes were observed in P450 1A1, 2B1 or 3A1/2 expression or activities or cytochrome b5 activity. P450 reductase activity decreased by up to 28%. Microsomal epoxide hydrolase (mEH) expression decreased by up to 85% after EA treatment, but mEH activities did not change. The hepatic phase II enzymes glutathione S-transferase (GST), NAD(P)H:quinone reductase [NAD-(P)H:QR] and UDP glucuronosyltransferase (UDPGT) activities increased by up to 26, 17 and 75% respectively. Assays for specific forms of GST indicated marked increases in the activities of isozymes 2-2 (190%), 4-4 (150%) and 5-5 (82%). In the rat esophageal mucosa only P450 1A1 could be detected by Western blot analysis and androstendione was the only P450 metabolite of testosterone detectable. However, there were no differences in the expression of P450 1A1, the formation of androstendione or NAD(P)H:QR activities between control and EA-fed rats in the esophagus. Although there was no significant decrease in overall GST activity, as measured with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), there was a significant decrease in the activity of the 2-2 isozyme (66% of control). In vitro incubations showed that EA at a concentration of 100 microM inhibited P450 2E1, 1A1 and 2B1 activities by 87, 55 and 18% respectively, but did not affect 3A1/2 activity. Using standard steady-state kinetic analyses, EA was shown to be a potent non-competitive inhibitor of both liver microsomal ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase and p-nitrophenol hydroxylase activities, with apparent Ki values of approximately 55 and 14 microM respectively. In conclusion, these results demonstrate that EA causes a decrease in total hepatic P450 with a significant effect on hepatic P450 2E1, increases some hepatic phase II enzyme activities [GST, NAD-(P)H:QR and UDPGT] and decreases hepatic mEH expression. It also inhibits the catalytic activity of some P450 isozymes in vitro. Thus the chemoprotective effect of EA against various chemically induced cancers may involve decreases in the rates of metabolism of these carcinogens by phase I enzymes, due to both direct inhibition of catalytic activity and modulation of gene expression, in addition to effects on the expression of phase II enzymes, thereby enhancing the ability of the target tissues to detoxify the reactive intermediates.
The Plant Journal (2001) 27(1), 67±78 ã 2001 Blackwell Science Ltd (Newton et al., 1981) , or by absorption measurement after oxidation by 5,5¢-dithio-bis(2-nitrobenzoic acid) (DTNB) (Anderson, 1985) or following conjugation to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) in the presence of glutathione S-transferase (GST) (Hermsen et al., 1997) . Although speci®c and sensitive, these methods require extraction of the tissue and provide an average estimate for all cells in the tissue. Results are typically expressed on a fresh weight or protein basis rather than in terms of cytoplasmic concentrations. To complement these approaches, we have been developing¯uorescent imaging techniques to measure GSH in intact plant tissues, with particular emphasis on mapping cell-speci®c differences in cytoplasmic GSH concentrations following labelling with monochlorobimane (MCB) Gutie Â rrez-Alcala Â et al., 2000; Meyer and Fricker, 2000; Sa Â nchez-Ferna Â ndez et al., 1997) . MCB is a cell-permeant and essentially non-¯uor-escent probe, which reacts with GSH to form a cellimpermeant and¯uorescent GSH±bimane (GSB) conjugate (Haugland, 1999) . It has been shown that MCB is a valid¯uorescent probe to trace the detoxi®cation of xenobiotics by conjugation to GSH in cells of carrot, maize and barley (Coleman et al., 1997) , and that GSB is transported into two different types of vacuole in barley aleurone cells (Swanson et al., 1998) . MCB also labels GSH in intact tissues, and the level of¯uorescence can be quanti®ed using confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) or two-photon laser scanning microscopy (TPLSM) within individual cells in their correct tissue context (Fricker and Meyer, 2001; Fricker et al., 2000; Gutie Â rrez-Alcala Â et al., 2000; Meyer and Fricker, 2000; Sa Â nchez-Ferna Â ndez et al., 1997) . This type of analysis has highlighted the variability of GSH levels in different cell types, and can also provide information on the activities of glutathione S-transferase (GST) and glutathione S-conjugate pump (GS-X-pump) activities in vivo. However, it requires complex and time-consuming calibration and correction procedures, and is therefore not appropriate for large numbers of samples.
Key words: methylglyoxal; glutathione S-transferase; glutathione; thiol; 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene Methylglyoxal (MG) is a highly cytotoxic -oxoaldehyde formed mainly through glycolysis at the triosephosphate step.
1 The abbreviations used are: Ab, antibody; GST, glutathione S-transferase; Bla g 5, Blattella germanica allergen 5; PAGE, polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis; RIA, radioimmunoassay; ELISA, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; CDNB, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene.
Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a chronically relapsing, pruritic, and eczematous skin disorder accompanying allergic inflammation. AD is one of the most common diseases, affecting 10-20% of people worldwide [1, 2] . AD can be caused by the interaction of genetic, pharmacological, and environmental factors, resulting in an imbalance within the immune system [3] . Recent immunological analyses of the pathogenesis of AD have produced complex information showing that AD is best characterized as an inflammatory reaction in the skin and a disrupted skin barrier. Until recently, these two factors have been studied as separate entities. However, inflammatory cytokines are known to regulate filaggrin, an important component of the skin barrier, as well as proteins involved in the processing and maturation of filaggrin. Therefore, inflammation itself may induce a functional skin barrier dysfunction and thereby aggravate the eczematous reaction in AD [4] [5] [6] . Previous studies have shown that AD is associated with increased serum immunoglobulin E (IgE) levels, increased Th2 cytokine level in the lesional skin, increased serum eosinophil count, and increased expression of proinflammatory enzymes such as iNOS and COX-2. AD also occurs frequently in response to environmental allergens such as the house dust mite Dermatophagoides farinae (D. farinae) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene [7] [8] [9] .
A sensitive and quantitative method was developed for the estimation of reactive metabolite formation in vitro. The method utilizes reduced glutathione (GSH) labeled with a fluorescence tag as a trapping agent and fluorescent detection for quantitation. The derivatization of GSH was accomplished by reaction of oxidized glutathione (GSSG) with dansyl chloride to form dansylated GSSG. Subsequent reduction of the disulfide bond yielded dansylated GSH (dGSH). Test compounds were incubated with human liver microsomes in the presence of dGSH and NADPH, and the resulting mixtures were analyzed by HPLC coupled with a fluorescence detector and a mass spectrometer for the quantitation and mass determination of the resulting dGSH adducts. The comparative chemical reactivity of dGSH vs GSH was investigated by monitoring the reaction of each with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene or R-(+)-pulegone after bioactivation. dGSH was found to be equivalent to GSH in chemical reactivity toward both thiol reactive molecules. dGSH did not serve as a cofactor for glutathione S-transferase (GST)-mediated conjugation of 3,4-dichloronitrobenzene in incubations with either human liver S9 fractions or a recombinant GST, GSTM1-1. Reference compounds were tested in this assay, including seven compounds that have been reported to form GSH adducts along with seven drugs that are among the most prescribed in the current U.S. market and have not been reported to form GSH adducts. dGSH adducts were detected and quantitated in incubations with all seven positive reference compounds; however, there were no dGSH adducts observed with any of the widely prescribed drugs. In comparison with existing methods, this method is sensitive, quantitative, cost effective, and easy to implement.
Analysis of the genome of the human pathogen, Aspergillus fumigatus, revealed the presence of several putative glutathione transferase (GST) open reading frames. Three A. fumigatus GST genes, termed gstA, B, and C, were cloned and recombinant proteins expressed in Escherichia coli. Functional analysis of recombinant gstA–C conWrms that the enzymes exhibit GST activity and glutathione peroxidase activity. RT-PCR conWrmed low basal expression of gstA and gstC which was markedly up-regulated (at least 4£– 10£) in the presence of either H2O2 or 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). GstB expression was only observed in the presence of CDNB. These results demonstrate for the Wrst time the existence of three functional GSTs in A. fumigatus and strongly suggest a role for these enzymes in the response of the organism to both oxidative stress and xenobiotic presence.
Abstract The glutathione S-transferases (GST) are a family of widely distributed multifunctional detoxification enzymes that catalyze the reaction between reduced glutathione and a variety of electrophiles. Of interest is the fact that several extracutaneous tissues exhibit a distinct spectrum of isozymes that are expressed in a highly controlled fashion. Despite the fact that the skin is continuously exposed to numerous injurious agents, little is known about the expression of GST isozymes and their role in metabolism of physiologic and xenobiotic substrates in cutaneous tissue. Using specific polyclonal antibodies to the Alpha, Mu, and Pi classes of GST, we identified their expression in rat, mouse, and human skin cytosol. In each species, GST isozymes expressed activities towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, benzo(a)pyrene 4,5-oxide, styrene 7,8-oxide, leukotriene A 4 , and ethacrynic acid, but not towards bromosulfophthalein and cumene hydroperoxide. Western blot analysis indicated the predominant expression of Pi isozyme in all three species. Alpha class of isozyme(s) was present only in human skin, whereas Mu class of isozyme(s) was detected only in rat and mouse skin. Similarly, in normal and transformed cultured human keratinocytes Pi was the predominant isozyme. In situ localization studies using immunohistochemical techniques confirmed the observations of Western blotting. In mouse skin, Pi and Mu isozyme(s) were found to be predominantly localized in sebaceous glands, whereas no reactivity was observed with the Alpha class of isozymes. Our data show that multiple forms of GST exist in rodent and human skin and that GST Pi is the predominant isozyme in each species. Furthermore, cutaneous GST can metabolize both endogenous substrates and foreign compounds.
A chromatographic method for the specific determination of glutathione in malignant cell lines is described. The method is based on the ability of glutathione-S-transferase to specifically and quantitatively conjugate glutathione to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and chromatographic quantitation of the resultant conjugate, dinitrophenyl-S-glutathione, by reversed-phase liquid chromatography. The assay can be performed on 20,000 g supernatants of cell homogenates without acid extraction. 2-Mercaptoethanol, a sulfhydryl compound often used as a thiol-protective agent to preserve enzymatic activities of a number of enzymes, did not interfere with glutathione determination by this method. The dinitrophenyl-S-glutathione isolated from either standard glutathione samples or from cell homogenates was shown to be identical to authentic dinitrophenyl-S-glutathione using mass spectrometry. Recovery of glutathione in standard samples by the current method was identical to that determined using 5,5'-dithiobis(2-nitrobenzoic acid). Exogenous glutathione added to supernatants of cell homogenate in the presence or absence of 2-mercaptoethanol was also completely recovered.
Abstract In order to study the effects of trans -anethole and eugenol on drug-metabolizing enzyme activities in vivo , male Wistar rats were treated by gavage with trans -anethole (125 or 250 mg/kg body weight) or eugenol (250, 500 or 1000 mg/kg body weight) daily for 10 days. In liver microsomes and cytosol various phase-I and phase-II biotransformation enzyme activities were determined. No effect on total cytochrome P -450 content in liver microsomes from rats treated with eugenol or trans -anethole was observed. Administration of 1000 mg eugenol/kg body weight, but not the lower doses, significantly increased cytochrome P -450-dependent 7-ethoxy-resorufin O -deethylation (EROD) and 7-pentoxy-resorufin O -depentylation (PROD); administration of trans -anethole (125 or 250 mg/kg body weight) did not alter EROD and PROD activities. In rat liver cytosol, UDP-glucuronyl transferase (GT) activity towards the substrate 4-chlorophenol was significantly increased in all treated rats, and activity towards 4-hydroxybiphenyl as substrate was significantly increased in rats treated with 250 mg trans -anethole/kg or with 500 or 1000 mg eugenol/kg. DT-diaphorase (DTD) activity was only significantly enhanced in the liver cytosol of rats treated with trans -anethole at 250 mg/kg body weight. Enhancement of cytosolic glutathione S -transferase (GST) activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was found for all eugenol- and trans -anethole-treated rats. In addition, significantly increased levels of GST subunit 2 were measured by HPLC in the liver cytosol of rats treated with eugenol (500 or 1000 mg/kg body weight) or trans -anethole (250 mg/kg body weight). It is concluded that both eugenol and trans -anethole preferentially induce phase II biotransformation enzymes in rat liver in vivo .
A glutathione peroxidase was purified from bovine ciliary body by ammonium sulfate fractionation. Sephacryl S-300 gel filtration, diethylaminoethyl (DEAE)-cellulose chromatography and hydroxyapatite chromatography. The purified enzyme has an apparent mw of 112 kDa by gel filtration and 29 kDa by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The enzyme therefore is composed of four identical subunits. The ciliary enzyme is active with H2O2 (25), cumene hydroperoxide (170), t-butyl hydroperoxide (22), triphenylcarbinyl hydroperoxide (12), linoleic hydroperoxide (34) and 5-phenylpentenyl hydroperoxide (22): the numbers after substrates are K'm in microM. Glutathione is essential for the reaction; L-cysteine, dithiothreitol and 2-mercaptoethanol are inactive. Mercaptosuccinate (10 microM) inhibits the enzyme competitively (Ki = 7 microM) when cumene hydroperoxide is substrate, and uncompetitively (Ki = 10 microM) when H2O2 is substrate. No selenium was found in the enzyme by the fluorometric assay with 2.3-diaminonaphthalene. The enzyme demonstrates no glutathione S-transferase activity when tested with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, and several other compounds. A partial sequence of the enzyme shows some similarities both to Se-glutathione peroxidases and a glutathione S-transferase isozyme.
Abstract Cytosolic GST activity was followed after a single topical application of a non-lethal dose of lindane to fourth instar larvae of a susceptible strain of Spodoptera littoralis (Boisd.). The induction reached its peak 8 h after treatment for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) conjugating GSTs (1.5-fold), and 12 h after the treatment for 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB) comjugating enzymes (1.3-fold). CDNB conjugating GST activity in an insecticide-resistant strain of S. littoralis was twice that measured in the non-induced suceptible larvae. No significant difference was observed with DCNB. GSTs of both larvae were purified by affinity chromatography using a glutathione-agarose column, which resulted in a 30-fold prufication and a yield of 50–70%. Purified GSTs were characterized using CDNB as the substrate. Apparent K m and V max values calculated for CDNB and reduced glutathione (GSH) were significantly different between the resistant strain and the susceptible one, whether induced by lindane or not. The lindane treatment modified only K m values for CDNB and GSH in susceptible larvae. Monodimensional SDS-PAGE of GSTs purified from both strains revealed a large band of 27 kDa apparent molecular weight.
Les lymphocytes du sang peripherique des cobayes sensibilises au 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene ont ete conjugues avec 1-fluoro-2,4-dinitrobenzene et ensuite cultives in vitro pendant 5 jours, a partir du moment ou on a observe en culture de 8–22% de cellules transformees.
High doses of T-2 toxin are known to decrease protein synthesis and mono-oxygenase activities in rat liver. The purpose of this study was to investigate whether exposure at a low dose could alter the normal metabolism of the xenobiotic by the liver. Three doses of T-2 toxin, dissolved in olive oil, were orally and daily administered to New Zealand white rabbits for five days. At 0.5 mg/kg, three of the five animals died, whereas only a weak decrease in body weight gain and moderate signs of toxicity occurred in rabbits receiving 0.25 mg/kg/day, and the body weight increased without signs of toxicity at 0.1 mg/kg/day. At 0.25 mg/kg/day, total liver microsomal P450 content, and the activities of aminopyrine and benzphetamine N-demethylases, pentoxyresorufin O-depentylase, glutathione S-transferases accepting 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene as substrates, were decreased. By contrast, ethylmorphine and erythromycin N-demethylases, ethoxyresorufin and methoxyresorufin O-dealkylases, aniline hydroxylase, and UDP-glucuronyltransferase accepting p-nitrophenol as substrate, were unaffected. The expression of P450 1A1, 1A2, 2A1, and 2B4, but not P450 2C3 and 3A6, were also decreased, whereas microsomal conjugated dienes, fluorescent substances, and malondialdehyde contents were increased. At 0.1 mg/kg/day, neither significant effects on drug metabolizing enzymes nor microsomal oxidative damages were obtained. Taken together, these results suggest that a short exposure time to the mycotoxin would not be associated with significant changes in the normal metabolism of xenobiotics by the liver.
Abstract Ten cytosolic glutathione S -transferase (GST) isozymes isolated from midguts and fat bodies of control and allelochemical-induced fall armyworm ( Spodoptera frugiperda ) larvae were tested for their activity toward 13 model substrates belonging to halogenated compounds, nitro compounds, α,β-unsaturated carbonyl compounds, and organic hydroperoxides. Based on the pattern of activity toward these substrates, these GST isozymes exhibited different but overlapping substrate specificities. With a few exceptions, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was the best substrate for these isozymes. The isozymes were active toward numerous toxic α,β-unsaturated carbonyl allelochemicals including trans -2-octenal, trans -2-nonenal, 2,4-hexadienal, trans , trans -2,4-heptadienal, trans , trans -2,4-nonadienal, and trans , trans -2,4-decadienal, suggesting that GSTs play an important role in the feeding strategies of lepidopterous insects. These GSTs also possessed glutathione peroxidase activity toward cumene hydroperoxide and conjugating activity toward 4-hydroxy nonenal, a lipid peroxidation product, and therefore they are antioxidant enzymes. Microsomal glutathione S -transferase from fat bodies of fall armyworm larvae metabolized a variety of model substrates such as CDNB, 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB), p -nitrophenyl acetate, and cumene hydroperoxide, but had no activity toward α,β-unsaturated carbonyl compounds. With the exception of ethacrynic acid, glutathione S -transferase activities toward these substrates were all inducible by allelochemicals such as xanthotoxin and indole 3-acetonitrile in midguts and fat bodies of fall armyworm larvae. Induction ranged from 1.3- to 20.2-fold for midgut GSTs and 1.4- to 48.8-fold for fat body GSTs, depending on the inducer and substrate used. In all instances, DCNB-conjugating activity was most inducible based on percentage of control.
Glutathione-dependent enzymes play a central role in the protection of cells from cytotoxic chemicals and have been implicated in the intrinsic and acquired resistance of tumors to cytotoxic drugs. We have generated a Chinese hamster ovary line resistant to bifunctional nitrogen mustards and in this report have characterized and isolated the protein that represents the major observable phenotypic difference between the drug-sensitive and drug-resistant cell lines. This purified protein is shown to be an alpha class glutathione S-transferase comprising YcYc subunits and possessing a pI value of approximately 8.0. The intracellular level of the Yc subunit is elevated greater than 40-fold in the drug-resistant cell line, which could account for the increase in glutathione S-transferase (RX:glutathione R-transferase; EC 2.5.1.18) activity toward both 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and cumene hydroperoxide. Other glutathione S-transferase subunits within this gene family are also elevated. These changes are accompanied by a significant elevation in alpha class mRNA levels. Southern analysis indicates that the genes coding for these proteins are amplified 4- to 8-fold in the drug-resistant cell line. In addition, gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase [(5-glutamyl)-peptide:amino acid 5-glutamyltransferase; EC 2.3.2.2] activity is increased 3.6-fold in the drug-resistant Chinese hamster ovary cell line, which may explain the increase in cellular glutathione level. In this case no gene amplification was seen. These data indicate that gene amplification may be important in drug resistance toward alkylating agents and also that other enzymes in glutathione homeostasis are involved.
BACKGROUND ::: Erythrocytic glutathion S-transferase (GST) plays an important role as a protective mechanism against oxidative stress. The present study was conducted to evaluate the influence of both smoking habit and sex upon the kinetic characteristics of the enzyme. ::: ::: ::: SUBJECTS AND METHODS ::: 176 healthy subjects (100 men and 76 women), smokers and nonsmokers, were included. Enzyme parameters were calculated in erythrocytic haemolysates using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and glutathion (GSH) as substrates. Haemoglobin (Hb) was removed by affinity chromatography. In samples coming from 51 men and 42 women the native haemolysate was subjected to thermal shock (52 degrees C) and the enzyme parameters were compared with those obtained in the non-denatured samples. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: In non-denatured samples, Km (mM) and Vmax (mumol/min/g Hb) values for CDNB were significantly higher (p < 0.001) in smokers than in non smokers, especially in women. Thus, respectively for Km and Vmax (mean +/- standard deviation): for men non smokers, 1.43 +/- 0.54, 1.63 +/- 0.42 and smokers, 1.74 +/- 0.5, 1.8 +/- 0.69; for women, non smokers 1.42 +/- 0.56, 1.57 +/- 0.46 and smokers, 2.05 +/- 0.59, 2.51 +/- 0.6. Thermal denaturation diminished the enzyme activity in all cases and modified the Km values, these results were opposite to those obtained in the non-denatured samples. Thus, for Km and Vmax respectively: for men, smokers, 1.6 +/- 0.71 and 0.9 +/- 0.32 and non smokers, 1.4 +/- 0.66 and 0.53 +/- 0.29; for women, non smokers, 2.00 +/- 0.58, 1.13 +/- 0.29 and smokers 1.22 +/- 0.77, 0.52 +/- 0.23. The GSt content was similar in the four groups studied (3.75 +/- 1.15 mumol SH/g Hb). ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: The greater thermolability of GST activity and the increase in the Km values observed in smokers, especially in women, should be considered as indicative of an increased risk for the erythrocytes against oxidative stress.
The biotransformation capability of pancreatic tissue was studied. Michaelis-Menten kinetics were determined for glutathione S-transferase in pancreatic tissue supernatants from control, phenobarbital (PB), and 3-methylcholanthrene (3MCA)-pretreated Sprague-Dawley male rats. The enzyme activity was measured spectrophotometrically with use of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate. Pancreatic activity was about half the hepatic activity, and, further, the activity was not affected by pretreatment with PB or 3MCA as was the liver.
A novel Rhizobium leguminosarum gene, gstA, the sequence of which indicated that it was a member of the gene family of glutathione S-transferases (GSTs), was identified. The homology was greatest to the GST enzymes of higher plants. The Rhizobium gstA gene was normally expressed at a very low level. The product of gstA was over-expressed and purified from Escherichia coli. It was shown to bind to the affinity matrix glutathione-Sepharose, but no enzymic GST activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate was detected. gstA encoded a polypeptide of 203 amino acid residues with a calculated molecular mass of 21990 Da. Transcribed divergently from gstA is another gene, gstR, which was similar in sequence to the LysR family of bacterial transcriptional regulators. A mutation in gstR had no effect on the transcription of itself or gstA under the growth conditions used here. Mutations in gstA and gstR caused no obvious phenotypic defect and the biological functions of these genes remain to be determined.
We identified and characterized the first two glutathione transferases (GSTs) isolated from juvenile cysts of Taenia crassiceps (EC 2.5.1.18). The two glutathione transferases (TcGST1 and TcGST2) were purified in a single-step protocol using glutathione (GSH)-sepharose chromatography in combination with a GSH gradient. The specific activities of TcGST1 and TcGST2 were 26 U mg-1 and 19 U mg-1, respectively, both at 25°C and pH 6.5 with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and GSH as substrates. The Km(CDNB) and Kcat(CDNB) values for TcGST1 and TcGST2 (0.86 μm and 62 s-1; 1.03 μm and 1.97 s-1, respectively) and Km(GSH) and Kcat(GSH) values for TcGST1 and TcGST2 (0.55 μm and 11.61 s-1; 0.3 μm and 32.3 s-1, respectively) were similar to those reported for mammalian and helminth GSTs. Mass spectrometry analysis showed that eight peptides from each of the two parasite transferases were a match for gi|29825896 glutathione transferase (Taenia solium), confirming that both enzymes are GSTs. The relative molecular masses were 54,000 ± 0.9 for the native enzymes and 27,500 ± 0.5 for the enzyme subunits. Thus, TcGST1 and TcGST2 are dimeric proteins. Optimal TcGST1 and TcGST2 activities were observed at pH 8.5 in the range of 20-55°C and pH 7.5 at 35-40°C, respectively. TcGST1 and TcGST2 were inhibited by cibacron blue (CB), bromosulphophthalein (BST), rose bengal (RB), indomethacin and haematin (Hm) with 50% inhibitory concentrations (IC50) in the μm range. TcGST1 was inhibited in a non-competitive manner by all tested inhibitors with the exception of indomethacin, which was uncompetitive. The discovery of these new GSTs facilitates the potential use of T. crassiceps as a model to investigate multifunctional GSTs.
Abstract Ethacrynic acid, a diuretic drug known to be an inhibitor of glutathione S -transferases (GSTs), has been shown to enhance the cytotoxicity of the alkylating agent class of chemotherapeutic drugs in cultured cancer cells resistant to alkylating agents. This action of ethacrynic acid is presumably mediated by inhibition of GSTs which are implicated in detoxification of alkylating agents. In addition to being an inhibitor of GSTs, ethacrynic acid also interacts with GSTs as a substrate for conjugation with GSH to yield an ethacrynic acid-GSH conjugate. This conjugate is formed both enzymatically and non-enzymatically and itself is a GST inhibitor. Since ethacrynic acid-GSH conjugate is itself likely to be able to mediate reversal of alkylating agents through GST inhibition, we have synthesized and purified the ethacrynic acid-GSH conjugate, studied the kinetics of inhibition of human lung π-class GST by ethacrynic acid and the conjugate, and compared the kinetics of the enzymatic and non-enzymatic formation of the conjugate using an HPLC method. Results of our studies showed that the ethacrynic acid-GSH conjugate was a more potent inhibitor of human lung GST-π than ethacrynic acid ( K i = 1.5 vs. 11.5 μM, respectively) and that their mechanisms for GST inhibition were distinct (competitive and non-competitive, respectively). Comparison of enzymatic and non-enzymatic rates of conjugate formation in vitro indicated that GST-γ catalyzed a rapid conjugation of ethacrynic acid with GSH at a concentration of ethacrynic acid an order of magnitude above that required to nearly completely inhibit GST catalyzed conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. However, because of the rapid non-enzymatic reaction, and the inhibition of GST-π with the accumulation of the conjugate in the reaction mixture, the overall quantity of the conjugate formed after 150 min was nearly identical in the presence or absence of GST-π. Results of these studies suggest that inhibition of GSTs by ethacrynic acid-GSH conjugate may be the main mechanism through which ethacrynic acid reverses alkylating agent resistance.
Abstract The glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) represent a significant group of detoxification enzymes that play an important role in drug resistance in all eukaryotic species. In this paper we report an identification and characterization of the twoSaccharomyces cerevisiae genes, GTT1 andGTT2 (glutathionetransferase 1 and 2), coding for functional GST enzymes. Despite only limited similarity with GSTs from other organisms (∼50%), recombinant Gtt1p and Gtt2p exhibit GST activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as a substrate. Both Gtt1p and Gtt2p are able to form homodimers, as determined by two hybrid assay. Subcellular fractionation demonstrated that Gtt1p associates with the endoplasmic reticulum. Expression of GTT1 is induced after diauxic shift and remains high throughout the stationary phase. Strains deleted for GTT1 and/or GTT2 are viable but exhibit increased sensitivity to heat shock in stationary phase and limited ability to grow at 39 °C.
The stoichiometry, rate constants and order of reaction ::: have been determined for the reaction of ::: S,S-diphenylsulfilimine with the substrates ::: 1-fluoro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, ::: 2-chloro-3-nitropyridine, 2-chloro-5-nitropyridine and ::: 2-chloro-3,5-dinitropyridine. Arrhenius parameters and solvent ::: effects have also been determined for some of these reactions. ::: The results demonstrate that the reaction is a typical ::: nucleophilic aromatic substitution process with no measurable ::: base catalysis. A high reactivity of the sulfilimine reagent is ::: observed and accounted for in terms of the contribution of the ::: ylid form to the overall structure.
Abstract A procedure was developed to obtain non-embryogenic callus and regenerated lines from root segments of Zea mays grown in aseptic conditions. The activity of glutathione- S -transferases (GSTs), for non-embryogenic callus, was determined toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and it was compared with that obtained for corn seedlings grown without hormones. For the callus masses, increases of specific activity toward CDNB and the kinetic parameter V max were observed with respect to corn seedlings. The procedure permitted the regenerating of tissues from callus explants, therefore the GST(CDNB) activity and the effect of the safener benoxacor on its expression were investigated for the regenerated tissues grown in agarized substrate and in liquid medium. These explants showed a constitutive GST(CDNB) activity higher than corn seedlings and this activity was increased, for both tissues, in response to the presence of the safener benoxacor in the growing medium. The GST activity for the above tissues was also assayed toward benoxacor and terbuthylazine, metolachlor and fluorodifen herbicides. Measurable GST activity was found toward some of the above chemicals and it was found to be significantly enhanced in response to benoxacor treatment.
In vivo investigation to ascertain the capacities of five antimalarials drugs (Fansidar, Halfan, quinine, Coartem and chloroquine phosphate) to alter/distort non-parasitized human erythrocyte (HbAA genotype) glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity was carried out. Apparent healthy and clinically confirmed non-malarious male volunteers enrolled for this study. The incubation of human erythrocytes with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) resulted in almost quantitative conjugation of glutathione (GSH) to form S-(2,4-dinitrophenyl) glutathione. The reaction formed the basis for the spectrophotometric determination of GST activity. Determination of GST activity was carried out before (control; t=0 hour) and after (tests; i.e. at t=3, 6 and 18 hours) the five (5) antimalarial drugs were administered to the human volunteers. The control/reference values ranged between 3.27±0.13 and 3.40±0.05 )iu/gHb. Generally, the pattern of in vivo erythrocyte GST activity with time in the presence of the five antimalarial drugs showed a two-phase profile. The first stage showed decreasing levels of relative GST activity within approximate time range: (6
Abstract Glutathione S-transferase activity has been identified in human placenta cytosol. The soluble protein fraction subjected to isoelectric focusing was resolved into a single peak of activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene centred at pH 4.65. Gel filtration experiments indicated that the protein had a molecular weight of 60,000. There was no apparent binding of sulphobromophthalein to this protein. The placental glutathione S-transferase system was inhibited by some non-substrate anions but apparently not by bilirubin. Glutathione S-transferase activity was located in the cytosol of the chorial villi and to a lesser extent in the amnion; it appears in the early stages of pregnancy. This activity was not detected in the amniotic fluid.
Abstract Specific activities and apparent Michaelis-Menten kinetic parameters were determined for glutathione (GSH) S-transferase activity (E.C. 2.5.1.18) in rat liver cytosol, towards styrene oxide (STOX), 1,2-butylene oxide (BOX) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as electrophilic substrates, before and after pretreatment with the drug-metabolizing enzyme inducers phenobarbital (PB), 3-methylcholanthrene (MC) and 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo- p -dioxin (TCDD). The measured GSH S-transferase activities appear to obey Michaelis-Menten kinetics. In non-induced animals the apparent K m values of the transferase activities were equal for STOX vs GSH, but they differed by a factor of 2 for CDNB vs GSH and by a factor of 14 for BOX vs GSH. The apparent V max values in each combination of GSH and electrophilic substrate were equal, but differed by one order of magnitude for the mutual substrate combinations. Pretreatment of the rats with MC resulted in enhancement of all measured activities expressed in terms of cytosol protein, while TCDD only enhanced the activities expressed as per gram body wt. PB enhanced both activities when STOX was employed as substrate, but when CDNB was used as the substrate, only the activity per gram body wt increased. All pretreatments increased the V max values using CDNB as the substrate, while PB and MC had an enhancing effect using STOX; the V max using BOX was enhanced after TCDD administration only. The K m values using BOX as the substrate was lowered after MC pretreatment; TCDD pretreatment decreased the K m using STOX, while it increased the K m using CDNB. It is concluded that the GSH S-transferase system is inducible, but in contrast to the induction of the mixed function oxidase system, qualitative differences between the inducing effects of PB and MC were not observed. Use of TCDD as inducing agent, however. resulted in a different induction pattern, which may indicate that during induction with this agent different types of GSH S-transferases are involved.
Abstract A soluble high affinity binding unit for leukotriene (LT) C4 in the high speed supernatant of rat liver homogenate was characterized at 4 degrees C as having a single type of saturable affinity site with a dissociation constant of 0.77 +/- 0.27 nM (mean +/- S.E., n = 5). The binding activity was identified as the liver cytosolic subunit 1 (Ya) of glutathione S-transferase, commonly known as ligandin, by co-purification with the catalytic activity during DEAE-cellulose column chromatography and 11,12,14,15-tetrahydro-LTC4 (LTC2)-affinity gel column chromatography; resolution into two major bands by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of Mr 23,000 and 25,000, of which only the smaller protein was labeled with [3H]LTC4 coupled via a photoaffinity cross-linking reagent; and immunodiffusion analysis with rabbit antiserum to glutathione S-transferase which showed a line of identity between the purified LTC4-binding protein and rat liver glutathione S-transferase. The affinity-purified binding protein bound 800 pmol of [3H] LTC4/mg of protein and possessed 12 mumol/min/mg of glutathione transferase activity as assayed with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate. The enzyme activity of the cytosolic LTC4-binding protein was inhibited by submicromolar quantities of unlabeled LTC4, and the binding activity for [3H]LTC4 was blocked by the ligandin substrates, hematin and bilirubin. The high affinity interaction between LTC4 and glutathione S-transferase suggests that glutathione S-transferase may have a role in LTC4 disposition and that previous studies of LTC4 binding to putative receptors in nonresponsive tissues may require redefinition of the binding unit.
New Bedford Harbor (NBH), MA, is a federal Superfund site that is heavily contaminated with polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and other halogenated aromatic hydrocarbons (HAHs), including some potent aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) agonists. A population of Atlantic killifish (Fundulus heteroclitus) continues to inhabit this site, despite accumulating extraordinarily high concentrations of PCBs (272 mg/g dry weight). To determine if NBH killifish have developed resistance to HAHs that act through the AhR, we examined the inducibility of cytochrome P4501A1 (CYP1A1), UDP glucuronosyl transferase (UGT), and glutathione S-transferase (GST) in fish from NBH and a reference site, Scorton Creek (SC, Cape Cod, MA; PCB concentrations 0.177 mg/g dry weight). 2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzofuran (TCDF) induced CYP1A1 mRNA, protein, and activity in SC fish in all tissues examined (liver, heart, gut, gill, kidney, spleen, and gonad). In contrast, NBH fish expressed low levels of CYP1A1 and showed no induction of CYP1A1 mRNA, protein, or activity by TCDF, or induction that was lower in magnitude or required higher doses of inducer. p-Nitrophenol UGT activity was not induced by TCDF in either population, while GST activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate was induced only in NBH fish in one experiment. Inducibility of CYP1A1 by 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-pdioxin (TCDD) or b-naphthoflavone (BNF) was measured in primary hepatocyte cultures prepared from SC and NBH fish. TCDD induced CYP1A1 activity (ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase) to the same degree in hepatocytes from both populations, demonstrating the functionality of the AhR signaling pathway in NBH fish. However, hepatocytes from NBH fish were 14-fold less sensitive to TCDD than were those from SC fish. The nonhalogenated AhR agonist BNF also induced CYP1A1 in cells from both populations, although with only a 3-fold difference in sensitivity (NBH < SC). These results indicate that chronic exposure to high levels of HAHs has led to a reduction in the sensitivity of NBH killifish to AhR agonists. The resistance is systemic and pretranslational, and exhibits compound-specific differences in magnitude. These findings suggest an alteration in the AhR signal transduction pathway in NBH fish.
Analysis of the genome of the human pathogen, Aspergillus fumigatus, revealed the presence of several putative glutathione transferase (GST) open reading frames. Three A. fumigatus GST genes, termed gstA, B, and C, were cloned and recombinant proteins expressed in Escherichia coli. Functional analysis of recombinant gstA-C conWrms that the enzymes exhibit GST activity and glutathione peroxidase activity. RT-PCR conWrmed low basal expression of gstA and gstC which was markedly up-regulated (at least 4£-10£) in the presence of either H 2 O 2 or 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). GstB expression was only observed in the presence of CDNB. These results demonstrate for the Wrst time the existence of three functional GSTs in A. fumigatus and strongly suggest a role for these enzymes in the response of the organism to both oxidative stress and xenobiotic presence. 
The identiWcation of a functional theta class GST (gene: gstA) in A. nidulans has further elucidated the role of GST in fungal metabolism. GstA appears to be upregulated by the presence of either 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) 2 or H 2 O 2 in the culture medium and may also play a role in mediating heavy metal resistance in A. nidulans (Fraser et al., 2002) .
Dendritic cell (DC) activation is a critical event for the induction of an immune response to haptens. Although signaling pathways such as mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) family members have been reported to play a role in DC activation by haptens, little is known about the implication of the nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kB) pathway. In this work, we showed that NiSO 4 induced the expression of HLA-DR, CD83, CD86, and CD40 and the production of interleukin (IL)-8, IL-6, and IL-12p40 in human DCs, whereas 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB) induced mainly the expression of CD83 and CD86 and the production of IL-8. NiSO 4 but not DNCB was able to activate the degradation of IkB-a leading to the binding of the p65 subunit of NF-kB on specific DNA probes. Inhibition of the NF-kB pathway using BAY 11-7085 prevents both CD40 and HLA-DR expression and cytokine production induced by NiSO 4 . However, BAY 11-7085 only partially inhibited CD86 and CD83 expression induced by NiSO 4 . In addition, p38 MAPK and NF-kB were independently activated by NiSO 4 since SB203580 did not inhibit NF-kB activation by NiSO 4 . Interestingly, we also showed that DNCB inhibited the degradation of IkB-a induced by tumor necrosis factor-a leading to alteration of CD40, HLA-DR, and CD83 expression but not of CD86 and CCR7. Extensive modifications of DC phenotype by NiSO 4 in comparison to DNCB are probably the consequence of NF-kB activation by NiSO 4 but not by DNCB.
New Bedford Harbor (NBH), MA, is a federal Superfund site that is heavily contaminated with polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and other halogenated aromatic hydrocarbons (HAHs), including some potent aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) agonists. A population of Atlantic killifish (Fundulus heteroclitus) continues to inhabit this site, despite accumulating extraordinarily high concentrations of PCBs (272 g/g dry weight). To determine if NBH killifish have developed resistance to HAHs that act through the AhR, we examined the inducibility of cytochrome P4501A1 (CYP1A1), UDP glucuronosyl transferase (UGT), and glutathione S-transferase (GST) in fish from NBH and a reference site, Scorton Creek (SC, Cape Cod, MA; PCB concentrations 0.177 g/g dry weight). 2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzofuran (TCDF) induced CYP1A1 mRNA, protein, and activity in SC fish in all tissues examined (liver, heart, gut, gill, kidney, spleen, and gonad). In contrast, NBH fish expressed low levels of CYP1A1 and showed no induction of CYP1A1 mRNA, protein, or activity by TCDF, or induction that was lower in magnitude or required higher doses of inducer. p-Nitrophenol UGT activity was not induced by TCDF in either population, while GST activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate was induced only in NBH fish in one experiment. Inducibility of CYP1A1 by 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-pdioxin (TCDD) or ␤-naphthoflavone (BNF) was measured in primary hepatocyte cultures prepared from SC and NBH fish. TCDD induced CYP1A1 activity (ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase) to the same degree in hepatocytes from both populations, demonstrating the functionality of the AhR signaling pathway in NBH fish. However, hepatocytes from NBH fish were 14-fold less sensitive to TCDD than were those from SC fish. The nonhalogenated AhR agonist BNF also induced CYP1A1 in cells from both populations, although with only a 3-fold difference in sensitivity (NBH < SC). These results indicate that chronic exposure to high levels of HAHs has led to a reduction in the sensitivity of NBH killifish to AhR agonists. The resistance is systemic and pretranslational, and exhibits compound-specific differences in magnitude. These findings suggest an alteration in the AhR signal transduction pathway in NBH fish.
GSH transferase (GST) activity. The protocol described in Habig et al. (1974) as modified by Van Veld et al (1991) was followed, with modifications. Briefly, GST activity was measured by adding hepatic cytosol (0.02 to 0.14 mg total protein) to 1 ml of reaction buffer containing 1 mM 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), 100 mM Tris-HCl, and 1 mM reduced glutathione and then monitoring the change in absorbance for 1 min at 344 nM. GST activity was expressed as nmol of conjugate produced per min per mg total cytosolic protein.
Abstract Shortly (3–6 hr) after exposure to either the fungicide pentachloronitrobenzene (PCNB) or 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) the pool of reduced glutathione (GSH) in Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. melonis and Rhizoctonia solani is drastically depleted, followed by a gradual increase in GSH levels. A similar pattern regarding the effect of the above compounds on glutathione-S-transferase (GST) specific activity was observed in both fungi. There is no significant differences in either GSH levels or GST specific activities in F. oxysporum and R. solani , tolerant and sensitive to PCNB, respectively. The GST was purified from the cytosolic fraction of F. oxysporum using glutathione-agarose affinity chromatography as a major purification step. The enzyme was purified about 753-fold to apparent homogeneity, and its Michaelis-Menten parameters were calculated. Sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide electrophoresis revealed one polypeptide of about 25,000 molecular weight.
The in vitro interaction of the mycotoxin penicillic acid (PA) with rat liver glutathione S-transferase (GST) was studied using reduced glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrates. The inhibition of the GST activity by PA in crude extracts was dose dependent. Each of the different GST isoenzymes was inhibited, albeit at different degrees. Kinetic studies never revealed competitive inhibition kinetics. The conjugation of PA with GSH occurred spontaneously; it was not enzymatically catalyzed by GST, indicating that an epoxide intermediate is not involved in conjugation. The direct binding of PA to GST provides an additional detoxication mechanism.
Glutathione S-transferase activity was found in sperm of the rat and DBA2J and C57 BL6J mice. In rat sperm activities with benzo(a)pyrene 4,5-oxide, styrene 7,8-oxide, and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene were 0.88, 1.07, and 26.1 nmoles/min/mg protein, respectively. Δ5-3-Ketosteroid isomerase activity of rat sperm was 4.9 nmoles/min/mg protein. These specific glutathione S-transferase and Δ5-3-ketosteroid isomerase activities in sperm represent 0.4–4.1% of rat liver cytosol values. Human semen also contained significant glutathione S-transferase activity. It is postulated that these enzymes could function in the metabolism and detoxification of certain electrophilic xenobiotics, if present in sperm.
A library of variant enzymes was created by combined shuffling of the DNA encoding the human Mu class glutathione transferases GST M1-1 and GST M2-2. The parental GSTs are 84% sequence identical at the protein level, but their specific activities with the substrates aminochrome and 2-cyano-1,3-dimethyl-1-nitrosoguanidine (cyanoDMNG) differ by more than 100-fold. Aminochrome is of particular interest as an oxidation product of dopamine and of possible significance in the etiology of Parkinson's disease, and cyanoDMNG is a model for genotoxic and potentially carcinogenic nitroso compounds. GST M2-2 has at least two orders of magnitude higher catalytic activity with both of the substrates than any of the other known GSTs, including GST M1-1. The DNA library of variant Mu class GST sequences contained mosaic structures composed of alternating segments of both parental sequences. All clones contained the 5'-end of a GST M1-1 clone optimized for high-level expression in Escherichia coli. The remainder of the sequences derived from segments of GST M2-2 and GST M1-1 DNA. All of the clones analyzed contained between two and seven distinct DNA segments. In addition, each clone contained an average of approximately one point mutation. None of the library clones analyzed was identical with either of the two parental structures. Variant GST sequences were expressed in E. coil, and their enzymatic activities with aminochrome, cyanoDMNG, and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) were determined in bacterial lysates. Such screening of more than 70 clones demonstrated a continuous range of activities covering at least two orders of magnitude for each of the substrates. For a given clone, the activities with aminochrome and cyanoDMNG, in spite of their different chemistries, were clearly correlated, whereas no strong correlation was found with CDNB. This functional correlation suggests a common structural basis for Be enzymatic mechanisms for conjugation of aminochrome and denitrosation of cyanoDMNG. From an evolutionary perspective, the results show that recombination of segments from homologous proteins gives rise to a large proportion of functionally competent proteins with a range of activities. The data support the proposal that natural evolution of protein functions may involve recombination of: DNA segments followed by selection for advantageous functional properties of the resulting proteins. Clearly, the same approach can be utilized in the engineering of proteins displaying novel functions by in vitro evolution. (C) 1999 Academic Press.
Termites have an important role in the cycling of carbon and trace elements in the biosphere through their degradation of wood, grasses and humus. Glutathione transferases (GSTs) are detoxication enzymes found in all organisms; GSTs are known to protect insects from the toxic effects of plant chemicals and pesticides. The activities and characteristics of termite GSTs were investigated in three Australian termite families. Multiple GST isozymes were purified from whole body preparations of the three termite species by affinity chromatography and subsequent chromatofocusing. Termite GSTs exhibited a broad range of activities toward model substrates but were most active with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. The pI values of termite GSTs ranged between 7.4 and 5.8, while the apparent molecular weights of subunits ranged between 25.9 and 27.7 kDa. The N-terminal sequence of a glutathione-binding protein that was purified from Mastotermes darwiniensis was similar to the N-terminal sequence of a streptococcal protein of unknown function previously implicated in glomerulonephritis in humans.
The distribution and inducibility of cytosolic glutathione S-transferase (EC 2.5.1.18) and glutathione peroxidase (EC 1.11.1.19) activities in rat liver parenchymal, Kupffer and endothelial cells were studied. In untreated rats glutathione S-transferase activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 4-hydroxynon-2-trans-enal as substrates was 1.7-2.2-fold higher in parenchymal cells than in Kupffer and endothelial cells, whereas total, selenium-dependent and non-selenium-dependent glutathione peroxidase activities were similar in all three cell types. Glutathione S-transferase isoenzymes in parenchymal and non-parenchymal cells isolated from untreated rats were separated by chromatofocusing in an f.p.l.c. system: all glutathione S-transferase isoenzymes observed in the sinusoidal lining cells were also detected in the parenchymal cells, whereas Kupffer and endothelial cells lacked several glutathione S-transferase isoenzymes present in parenchymal cells. At 5 days after administration of Arocolor 1254 glutathione S-transferase activity was only enhanced in parenchymal cells; furthermore, selenium-dependent glutathione peroxidase activity decreased in parenchymal and non-parenchymal cells. At 13 days after a single injection of Aroclor 1254 a strong induction of glutathione S-transferase had taken place in all three cell types, whereas selenium-dependent glutathione peroxidase activity remained unchanged (endothelial cells) or was depressed (parenchymal and Kupffer cells). Hence these results clearly establish that glutathione S-transferase and glutathione peroxidase are differentially regulated in rat liver parenchymal as well as non-parenchymal cells. The presence of glutathione peroxidase and several glutathione S-transferase isoenzymes capable of detoxifying a variety of compounds in Kupffer and endothelial cells might be crucial to protect the liver from damage by potentially hepatotoxic substances.
Glutathione transferases (GSTs) catalyze the transfer of glutathione to a variety of xenobiotic and toxic endogenous compounds. GSTs are phase II biotransformation enzymes and are proposed as biomarkers of environmental pollution. In this study, a cytosolic glutathione transferase (maGST) was purified from liver of the freshwater fish Monopterus albus by affinity chromatography. The maGST appeared to be a homodimer composed of two subunits each with a molecular weight of 26 kDa. This maGST showed high activity towards the substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and 7-chloro-4-nitrobenzo-2-oxa-1,3-diazole (NBD-Cl). Kinetic analysis with CDNB as substrate revealed a K(m) of 0.28 mM and V(max) of 15.68 micromol/min per mg of protein. It had maximum activity in the pH range 7.0-7.5, a broad optimum T(m) range of 30 degrees C-55 degrees C, and a high thermal stability with 77% of its initial activity at 45 degrees C. This high thermal stability of maGST could be related to the physiological adaptation of M. albus to high temperatures in tropical and subtropical environments.
This study was directed to use the genetically developed isoprenaline-sensitive (S), isoprenaline-resistant (R) and spontaneous hypertensive rats (SHR) as standard diseased animal models for in vitro liver function evaluation of drug biotransformation. Hepatic hexobarbital hydroxylase and glutathione transferase (GST) were evaluated by using hexobarbital and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrates, at concentrations of 0.21 mmol/l and 1 mmol/l, respectively. The assay was conducted by using isolated hepatocytes in suspension and hepatocytes in a bioreactor configuration. The data demonstrate that there are certain cellular pharmacokinetic differences in hexobarbital hydroxylase and GST activities in hepatocytes obtained from Wistar, SHR, R and S strains which can be better demonstrated, when using the model of perfused and immobilized hepatocytes.
Abstract Multiple glutathione S-transferase (GST) isoenzymes from Galleria mellonella have been purified by use of a combination of BSP affinity chromatography and isoelectric focusing to give catalytically active proteins isoelectric at pI 5.2, 6.9, 7.7 and 8.2. All isoforms were active with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), 3-4-dichloro-nitrobenzene (DCNB) and were capable of cleaving β-methyl-umbelliferyl acetate (MUA). The pI 8.2 isoenzyme had by far the greatest activity with respect to CDNB. All four isoforms had activities of approximately the same magnitude with the other two substrates. All isoforms had detectable activity with monobromobimane and this substrate, or β-methyl umbelliferyl acetate could be used to localize the isoenzymes in electrophoresis gels by virtue of the fluorescent products of the reactions.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) and general esterases play important roles in the detoxification of many substances including allelochemicals from plants and chemical pesticides. In this study, to determine the feeding status and effects of agronomical practices on GST and general esterase, two bug species, Eurygaster integriceps and Brachynema germari, were selected with differences in these cases. GST and general esterase responses varied when switching from 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and α-naphtyl to 1,2-dichloro-4-nitro-benzene (DCNB) and β-naphtyl in E. integriceps and B. germari, respectively. The activities of GST and esterase by using CDNB and α-naphtyl were higher than that of DCNB and β-naphtyl for both insects. It was shown that the optimal pH for GST and general esterase activity varied between pH 5.5 and 6. While the Michaelis constant (Km) value related to E. integriceps toward CDNB and α-naphtyl was lower than Km for B. germari, Km values calculated for E. integriceps toward DCNB and β-naphtyl corresponding to those related to A. hejeri were similar to CDNB and α-naphtyl values. The maximal reaction velocity (Vmax) values related to E. integriceps for both substrates (CDNB and α-naphtyl) were always higher than those from B. germari and showed significant differences. At the basement of the native-PAGE electrophoresis, five bands were observed in for GST and three were visualized for B. germari, with a large, darker band for E. integriceps in the case of esterases. Studies on the detoxification enzymes of herbivores should be undertaken to determine accurately the effect of the host plants on the organisms eating them, particularly in terms of biochemical and ecological advantages.
Allelic forms of hGSTP1-1 which differ from each other by their catalytic properties and, structurally, by the amino acid(s) in position(s) 104 or (and) 113 are known to exist in human populations. The four possible isoforms of hGSTP1-1 with isoleucine or valine in position 104 and with alanine or valine in position 113 were produced by site-directed mutagenesis of the cDNA followed by bacterial expression and purification of the proteins. Glutathione-conjugating activity was measured with the diol epoxides of benzo(a)pyrene and chrysene, as well as with the model substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Isoenzymes with valine in position 104 were more effective with the diol epoxides of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons but less effective with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene than the isoforms with isoleucine 104. In addition, the transition A113V in the presence of V104 caused a pronounced increase in catalytic efficiency for the benzo(a)pyrene but not the chrysene diol epoxide. It is proposed that amino acid 113 functions as part of a clamp that lines the mouth of the water channel leading to the active sites of the hGSTP1-1 dimer and controls the access to substrates. Therefore, the hydrophobicity and the size of residue 113 are important in co-determining the substrate specificity of the isoenzymes. The widely different activities of the allelic isoforms toward carcinogenic diol epoxides of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons may help to explain the correlation between cancer susceptibility and genotype at the hGSTP1 locus that has been found by others.
Chemicals -BZL, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), MK571, rhodamine 123 (Rh123), phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride (PMSF), pepstatin A, and leupeptin were from Sigma-Aldrich (St. Louis, MO, USA). DMSO was purchased from Merck (Darmstadt, HE, Germany). PSC833 was from Tocris Bioscience (Bristol, QL, UK). All other chemicals were of analytical grade purity.
In the present study, we described protein NCgl1216 belonging to a novel MSH S-transferase Xi class (MstX), considered as the equivalent of GST Xi class (GSTX). MstX had a characteristic conserved catalytic motif (Cys-Pro-Trp-Ala, C-P-W-A). MstX was active as thiol transferase, dehydroascorbate reductase, mycothiolyl-hydroquinone reductase and MSH peroxidase, while it showed null activity toward canonical GSTs substrate as 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and GST Omega's specific substance glutathionyl-acetophenones, indicating MstX had some biochemical characteristics related with mycoredoxin (Mrx). Site-directed mutagenesis showed that, among the two cysteine residues of the molecule, only the residue at position 67 was required for the activity. Moreover, the residues adjacent to the active Cys67 were also important for activity. These results indicated that the thiol transferase of MstX operated through a monothiol mechanism. In addition, we found MstX played important role in various stress resistance. The lack of C. glutamicum mstX gene resulted in significant growth inhibition and increased sensitivity under adverse stress condition. The mstX expression was induced by stress.
and exhibits a preference for binding to nucleophilic protein targets (20) . ed. In brief, we have incubated puriWithin the concept discussed in this MPO with its substrate, hydrogen per-paper, the experiments with DNA localized >, and Glutathione (GSH) in conjunction with glutathione transferases (GSTs) is the most important cellular system for protection against carcinogenic PAHs. Accepting the hypothesis that PML contribute to the metabolic activation of carcinogens such as BP and thus increase the probability for tumor formation, it is likely that the level of GSH and the qualitative and quantitative distribution of GST isoenzymes are important regulatory factors for the formation and accumulation of reactive BP-7,8-dihydrodiol intermediates. Accordingly, cytosolic fractions from PML isolated from a number of female and male individuals were prepared and assayed for GST activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) (21) ( Table 3 ). In addition, total GST content and isoenzyme distribution were determined by affinity chromatography and HPLC (22) . The results from this study will be published elsewhere, but it can be concluded that the major GST isoenzyme in PML is GST P1-1, the isoenzyme most efficient in detoxifying BPDE by conjugation with GSH. In addition to GST activities, Table  3 also contains data on total cell protein, protein content of cytosolic fractions and extent of DNA binding of BP-7,8-dihydrodiol intermediates. It is evident that no significant difference exists between females and males with regards to these parameters. Figure 3 shows some results on the relationship between DNA binding as a function of CDNB activities. A negative correlation seems to exist between the extent of DNA binding and GST content. These results may indicate that individuals with high amounts of GSTs are less sensitive to exposure to carcinogens like PAHs than individuals with lower GST activity.
Abbreviations: CAPE, caffeic acid phenethyl ester; CA, caffeic acid; 4-HA, 4-hydroxyanisole; MEM, Modified Eagle Medium Alpha; FBS, fetal bovine serum; PBS, phosphate buffered saline; MEM, Minimum Essential Medium; MTT, (3-(4, 5-dimethylthiazolyl-2)-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide); DETAPAC, diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid; GST, glutathione S-transferase; MRP, multidrug resistance-associated protein; TMRM, tetramethyl rhodamine methyl ester; GSH, glutathione; MDR, multi-drug resistance; EA, ethacrynic acid; CDNB, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene; EA-SG, ethacrynic acid glutathione conjugate; CA-SG, caffeic acid glutathione conjugate; CAPE-SG, caffeic acid phenethyl ester glutathione conjugate. play a role in the detoxification of superoxides, peroxides, and hydroxyl radicals [6] . GST utilizes GSH to scavenge the toxic reactive xenobiotics, which are responsible for the production of oxidative stress and cell toxicity; this is one of the important parts of the defense mechanism against carcinogenic and toxic effects of toxic compounds [7] . In a study of GST expression, it was shown that GST is highly expressed in melanoma cells when compared to the normal cells [2] .
Abstract A series of α,β-unsaturated aldehydes was evaluated to determine if these compounds could mediate inducible expression of glutathione S -transferase (GST) through the 5′-flanking antioxidant response element (ARE). The ARE from rGST A1 was subcloned into a luciferase reporter construct and used to transiently transfect rat Clone 9 hepatoma cells. Transfected cells were treated with 4-hydroxy- trans -2-nonenal (4-HNE), trans -2-hexenal ( t -2-HE), 2-propenal (acrolein, 2-PE), and ethacrynic acid (EA), a control compound also containing an α,β-unsaturated carbonyl moiety. Each compound was evaluated for cytotoxicity to construct dosing regimens in transfection studies. IC 50 values for growth inhibition were measured using 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide. IC 50 values in Clone 9 cells were: 4-HNE, 6.3 ± 0.7 μM; t -2-HE, 16.0 ± 0.7 μM; 2-PE, 2.2 ± 0.4 μM; and EA, 38.0 ± 1.6 μM. A dose-dependent increase in luciferase activity was observed in transfected cells with all four compounds tested, indicating that α,β-unsaturated aldehydes function as direct activators of the ARE. To determine whether or not the observed promoter activation led to increased transcriptional and translational induction of GST, cells were treated with the various compounds and assayed for increases in GST mRNA, protein, and enzyme activity. Studies in Clone 9 cells revealed increased steady-state message for GST A1 and A4, increased GST A4-4 protein by Western blotting, and increased GST activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in response to treatment with all four compounds evaluated. Collectively, these studies demonstrate that EA and certain α,β-unsaturated aldehydes produced as a result of cellular membrane lipid peroxidation are activators of the ARE and efficient inducers of GST A1-1 and A4-4.
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), which occurs in approximately 17 to 40% of Americans, encompasses progressive stages of liver damage ranging from steatosis to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Inflammation and oxidative stress are known characteristics of NAFLD; however, the precise mechanisms occurring during disease progression remain unclear. The purpose of the current study was to determine whether the expression or function of enzymes involved in the antioxidant response, NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1), glutathione transferase (GST), and glutamate cysteine ligase, are altered in the progression of human NAFLD. Human livers staged as normal, steatotic, NASH (fatty), and NASH (not fatty) were obtained from the Liver Tissue Cell Distribution System. NQO1 mRNA, protein, and activity tended to increase with disease progression. mRNA levels of the GST isoforms A1, A2, A4, M3, and P1 increased with NAFLD progression. Likewise, GST A and P protein increased with progression; however, GST M protein levels tended to decrease. Of interest, total GST activity toward the substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene decreased with NAFLD progression. GSH synthesis does not seem to be significantly dysregulated in NAFLD progression; however, the GSH/oxidized glutathione redox ratio seemed to be reduced with disease severity, indicating the presence of oxidative stress and depletion of GSH throughout progression of NAFLD. Malondialdehyde concentrations were significantly increased with disease progression, further indicating the presence of oxidative stress. Nuclear immunohistochemical staining of nuclear factor E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), an indicator of activation of the transcription factor, was evident in all stages of NAFLD. The current data suggest that Nrf2 activation occurs in response to disease progression followed by induction of specific Nrf2 targets, whereas functionality of specific antioxidant defense enzymes seems to be impaired as NAFLD progresses.
The cyclopentenone prostaglandin A2 (PGA2) is known to inhibit cell proliferation, and metabolism of this compound thus might be important in controlling its ultimate function. The glutathione-related metabolism of PGA2 was therefore investigated both with purified glutathione S-transferase P1-1 (GSTP1-1) and with IGR-39 human melanoma cells. Firstly, the irreversible inhibition of human GSTP1-1 and its mutants C47S, C101S, and C47S/C101S was studied. PGA2 appeared to inhibit GSTP1-1 mainly by binding to the cysteine 47 moiety of the enzyme. This binding was reversed by a molar excess of GSH, indicating that retro-Michael cleavage occurs. Secondly, after exposing IGR-39 human melanoma cells to PGA2, both diastereoisomers of the PGA2-glutathione conjugate are excreted into the medium, although with a clear excess of the S-form, due to its preferential formation by the GSTP1-1 present in the cells. Thirdly, the effect of PGA2 on intracellular GST activity was determined by quantification of the excreted glutathione conjugate S-(2,4-dinitrophenyl)glutathione (DNPSG) after exposure to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. DNPSG excretion was inhibited after incubation with 10 or 20 μM PGA2 for 1 or 4 hr, as a result of glutathione depletion, reversible GST inhibition, and covalent modification of intracellular GST. Furthermore, PGA2 also inhibited transport of DNPSG by the multidrug resistance-associated protein, an effect that was reversible and competitive. In conclusion, PGA2 modulates all three aspects of the glutathione-mediated biotransformation system, i.e. GSH levels, GSTP1-1 activity, and transport of GSH conjugates. A role for GSTP1-1 as a specific transport protein inside the cell is indicated. Copyright (C) 1999 Elsevier Science Inc.
The effect of aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) on the glutathione S-transferase activity (GST) and on non-protein thiol levels of different tissues was studied in adult male Wistar rats. Animals received a single dose of the toxin (100 or 500 micrograms/kg body wt., p.o.), and were studied 6 or 24 h after administration. GST was determined in liver, renal cortex, duodenum, jejunum-ileum and distal ileum, using 3 substrates: 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), trans-4-phenyl-3-buten-2-one (PBO) and 1,2-epoxyethylbenzene (STOX). The non-protein thiol content of all tissues tested increased with the lowest dose at 6 h, returning to normal values at 24 h, while the higher dose produced a significant decrease in reduced thiol levels at 6 h, returning to normal values at 24 h. AFB1 administration induced, independently of dose and tissue, total GST (CDNB) and epoxide-transferase activity (STOX) while A--C-type transferases (PBO) were inhibited. Almost all activities returned to normal values at 24 h. In cases of enzyme induction there was in general an increase in Vmax and a decrease in apparent Km. The opposite was seen in cases of inhibition. In conclusion, the results provide evidence that extrahepatic GST could be important in the overall process of detoxification of AFB1. The behavior seen in hepatic and extrahepatic tissues revealed the functions of catalysis (B-type transferases) and covalent bond formation, as well as inactivation by probable AFB1 metabolites (A--C-type transferases).
Abstract We investigated the mechanisms of resistance to α-cypermethrin in a Q biotype, highly resistant Bemisia tabaci strain (GRMAL-RP) isolated from Crete. Cytochrome P450-dependent monoxygenase activity with the substrate ethoxycoumarin, and carboxylesterase activity with the substrates α-naphthyl-acetate, β-naphthyl-acetate, and para -nitrophenol acetate were substantially elevated in the GRMAL-RP, compared to the susceptible SUD-S strain, while glutathione- S -transferase activity with the substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was not different. The metabolic inhibitors piperonyl butoxide and S , S , S -tributyl phosphorotrithioate synergised cypermethrin toxicity in the GRMAL-RP strain, however, mortality was still lower than that of the susceptible strain, indicating the presence of an additional resistance mechanism. Analysis of the sequence of the IIS4–IIS6 region of the para sodium channel gene of the GRMAL-RP strain revealed two amino acid replacements compared to that of the SUD-S susceptible strain. One is the leucine to isoleucine substitution at position 925 (L925I) previously implicated in B. tabaci pyrethroid resistance and the other is a novel kdr resistant mutation for B. tabaci , a threonine to valine substitution at position 929 (T929V). Genotype analysis showed that the L925I and T929V were present in all GRMAL-RP males tested, at an approximately 1:1 frequency, but never in combination in the same haplotype.
1-(p-Terphenyl)-benzimidazolium (TRIPOD-TP) molecules undergo self-assembly to form rodlike structures in aqueous medium, as shown by field-emission scanning electron microscopy, transmission electron microscopy, and dynamic light scattering studies. Upon gradual addition of picric acid (PA), these aggregates undergo an aggregation/disaggregation process to complex morphological structures (10(-12)-10(-10) M PA) and spherical aggregates (10(-9)-10(-8) M PA). These spherical aggregates undergo further dissolution to well-dispersed spheres between 10(-7)-10(-6) M PA. During fluorescence studies, these aggregates demonstrate superamplified fluorescence quenching (>97%) in the presence of 10(-5) to 0.2 equiv of the probe concentration, an unprecedented process with PA. The lowest detection limits by solution of TRIPOD-TP are 5 × 10(-13) PA, 50 × 10(-12) M 2,4-dinitrophenol, 200 × 10(-12) M 2,4,6-trinitrotoluene, and 1 nM 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Paper strips dipped in the solution of TRIPOD-TP demonstrate quantitative fluorescence quenching between 10(-17) and 10(-6) M PA using front-surface steady state studies and can measure as low as 2.29 × 10(-20) g/cm(2) PA.
The thermal induction of chemiluminescence of luminol-horseradish peroxidase-labeled erythrocytes from pigs, rats, and man was studied. The luminescent responses of rat, porcine, and human erythrocytes to heating were linear in respect to logs of counts per minute versus temperature. Landrace-Duroc crossbred pigs with a history of malignant hyperthermia (porcine stress syndrome) and Poland-China-miniature pigs inbred for malignant hyperthermia (MH) yielded erythrocytes with high-level thermochemiluminescence (TCL). Sprague-Dawley rat erythrocytes were intermediate in their production of TCL. Normal human and MH-resistant miniature swine erythrocytes produced low-level TCL. However, pretreatment of human erythrocytes with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) resulted in high-level TCL. Furthermore, halothane enhanced the TCL of CDNB-treated human erythrocytes and Landrace-Duroc porcine erythrocytes that were not treated with CDNB. Red blood cells from pigs susceptible to the porcine stress syndrome demonstrated a TCL response very similar to CDNB-treated erythrocytes.
Glutathione peroxidases (GPOXs) and glutathione transferases, also termed glutathione S-transferases (GST, EC 2.5.1.18), with activities toward a range of xenobiotic substrates including herbicides, have been characterized in etiolated pea (Pisum sativum L. cv. Feltham's First) seedlings. Crude extracts showed high activity toward a range of GST substrates including 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (GSTC activity) and the herbicide fluorodifen (GSTF) but low activities toward chloroacetanilides and atrazine. Treatment of the pea seedlings with the herbicide safener dichlormid selectively increased the activity of GSTC and the GST which detoxified atrazine. This induction was restricted to the roots and was not observed with any of the other GST or GPOX activities. In contrast, treatment with CuCl2 increased GPOX activity in the root but had no effect on any GST activity, while treatment of epicotyls with elicitors of the phytoalexin response increased GST activity toward ethacrynic acid, but had no effect on other GST or GPOX activities. ::: ::: ::: ::: The major enzymes with GSTC, GSTF and GPOX activities were purified from pea epicotyls 3609-fold, 1431-fold and 1554-fold, respectively. During purification by hydrophobic interaction chromatography and affinity chromatography using S-hexyl-glutathione as ligand all three activities co-eluted but could be partially resolved by anion exchange chromatography and gel filtration chromatography. Both GSTC and GPOX had a molecular mass of 48 kDa and their activities were associated with a similar 27.5-kDa subunit but distinct 29-kDa subunits. GSTF could be resolved into two isoenzymes with molecular masses of 49.5 and 54 kDa. GSTF activity was associated with a unique 30-kDa subunit in addition to 27.5- and 29-kDa peptides, suggesting that the two isoenzymes were composed of differing subunits. These results demonstrate that peas contain multiple GST isoenzymes some of which have GPOX activity and that the various activities are differentially responsive to biotic and abiotic stress.
Monobromobimane (mBBr) can label both Cys111 and Cys17 of rat liver glutathione S-transferase, 1-1 (GST 1-1). However, selective modification of Cys111 was achieved by the maleimide-based sulfhydryl reagents N-ethylmaleimide (NEM) and fluorescein 5-maleimide (NFM). Incubation of GST 1-1 with 5 mM NEM for 30 min at pH 7.5 and 25 degrees C leads to the formation of modified enzyme with 92% residual activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and completely blocks Cys111 from subsequent reaction with either NFM or mBBr. Reaction of GST 1-1 with 0.2 mM NFM under the same conditions affords a modified enzyme with only 14% residual activity even though NFM and NEM target the same Cys111. The results indicate that when the bulky fluorescein is covalently bound to Cys111, the ligand projects into both the xenobiotic binding site and the glutathione site. After NEM or NFM modification of GST 1-1, the enzyme was further modified by monobromobimane at Cys17 with loss of activity. Together with the only tryptophan (Trp20), fluorescein linked to Cys111 and bimane to Cys17 provide three fluorescent probes to study the solution structure of GST 1-1. Fluorescence spectral analysis suggests that Trp20 and bimane linked to Cys17 are located in a relatively hydrophobic environment, while fluorescein linked to Cys111 is located in a charged environment. These fluorescent probes constitute three sets of donor-acceptor pairs for the measurement of fluorescence energy transfer, and distances calculated from such measurements are 20 A between Trp20 and bimane at Cys17, 19 A between Trp20 and fluorescein at Cys111, and < 22 A between bimane at Cys17 and fluorescein at Cys111. Molecular modeling studies indicate that fluorescein lies between the two subunits, is surrounded by charged residues, and is extended into the xenobiotic binding site. They also suggest that mBBr must approach from the dimer interface in order to reach the reaction site at Cys17.
Objective:To test the effectiveness of an integration strategy for measuring activities of glutathione-S-transferase(GST) that suffers strong product inhibition.Methods: The alkaline isozyme of GST was purified from porcine liver by ion chromatography.GST reaction curves were monitored by absorbance at 340 nm with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene(CDNB) at 1.0 mmol/L and glutathione(GSH) at 50.0 μmol/L.When substrate consumption percentages were below the preset threshold,the classical initial rates were determined;otherwise,the maximal reaction rates were estimated by kinetic analyses of reaction curves using an integrated rate equation that employs the predictor variable of reaction time and considers product inhibition,and were then converted into initial rates at an optimized initial GSH concentration.Results:The maximal reaction rates of GST were resistant to variations in ranges of data as long as the product inhibition constant was optimized and the data under analyses covered the consumption of 55% GSH.By converting the maximal reaction rates into initial rates at 48 μmol/L GSH,the integration strategy had a lower limit of linear response slightly higher than that of the classical initial rates,while an upper limit of linear response that was about four times higher than that of the classical initial rates.Conclusion:By using the integrated rate equation for kinetic analysis of enzyme reaction process and an optimized substrate concentration to convert the maximal rates into initial rates,the integration strategy had wider linear ranges,and can potentially be a desirable universal method to measure enzyme activities.
Objective: Glutathione transferases (GST) are multifunctional enzymes involved in detoxication, drug resistance, cell signaling and apoptosis. The inhibitory effects of novel benzazole derivatives were tested on human GST P1-1 to find new agents for overcoming drug resistance in cancer cells. Methods: GST P1-1 was heterogously expressed in E. coli strain XL-1 Blue and purified using S-hexylglutathione-Sepharose 6B affinity chromatography. The effect of 33 potential inhibitors on enzymatic activity was assayed spectrophotometrically with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as well as with the alternative substrate phenethyl isothiocyanate (PEITC). Results: Compound-18 (N-[2-(4-chloro-benzyl)-benzooxazol-5-yl]-4- nitro-benzenesulfonamide) was the most potent inhibitor found with an IC 50 value of approximately 10 µM with respect to CDNB and a somewhat less strong inhibitor (45 % inhibition at 40 µM) with PEITC as substrate. Compound-18 showed mixed inhibition with GSH and uncompetitive inhibition with CDNB with the K i values 6.3 ± 0.7 µM and 11.8 ± 3.4 µM, respectively. Conclusion: Compound-18 is a potent inhibitor of GST P1-1. It may serve as a lead for further chemical modifications for increased potency. Additional studies will elucidate the effects of the inhibitor on cancer cells.
Glutathione S-transferase (GST) was purified from Escherichia coli K-12, and its N-terminal sequence was determined to be MKLFYKPGAXSLAS. The gene encoding this sequence was cloned and mapped at 1731-1732 kilobases on the E. coli gene map. It encoded a polypeptide of 201 amino acid residues with a calculated molecular weight of 22,860. The overexpressed product of the gene was confirmed to have GST activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and ethacrynic acid and GSH-dependent peroxidase activity toward cumene hydroperoxide. The relative molecular mass of the gene product was determined to be 40,000 by gel chromatography and 25,000 by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, indicating a homodimeric structure. The deduced amino acid sequence was 54% identical with that of Proteus mirabilis GST. Although the homologies between the GSTs from E. coli and mammals were low, many of the residues assigned to be important for the enzymatic function or structure in mammalian cytosolic GSTs were found to be conserved in E. coli GST. Therefore, E. coli GST is considered to have diverged from the same ancestor with other cytosolic GSTs. A specific tyrosyl residue in the vicinity of the N terminus is conserved in all of the known cytosolic GSTs and has been shown to function as a catalytic residue in alpha, mu, and pi class GSTs from mammals. Although Tyr5 in E. coli GST appeared to be the counterpart of the catalytic residue, its replacement with phenylalanine did not significantly affect the enzymatic activity. Therefore, this apparently conserved tyrosyl residue is not essential for catalytic activity in E. coli GST.
Glycosylation (glycation) of proteins can cause cataractogenesis and cellular damage. Using a human red blood cells (RBC) model and two different methods, this study shows that the glycation of hemoglobin increases significantly in glutathione (GSH) deficient RBC exposed to high glucose levels in vitro. Hemoglobin glycation was assessed using both affinity and ion-exchange chromatography. GSH-deficiency was accomplished artificially by treating RBC with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as well as by using hereditary G6PD-deficient RBC. GSH replenishment by dithioerythritol (DTE) and dithiothreitol (DTT) significantly blocked the glycation of hemoglobin in GSH-deficient cells. There was a significant negative correlation between levels of GSH and glycated hemoglobin following treatment with DTE (r = −0.98, n = 5, p < .001) and DTT (r = −0.94, n = 5, p < .02). This demonstrates that GSH depletion can indeed increase glycation. Thus, GSH and G6PD-deficient cells are at a significantly greater risk for the glycation of proteins, which in turn can cause increased cellular damage.
Glutathione transferases (GSTs) are a family of enzymes that detoxify electrophilic compounds, such as carcinogens or drugs, by conjugating them to glutathione. The enzymes have contributed to the understanding of protein structure, due to large differences in amino acid sequence within the family, yet similar architecture and folding. Our objective was to conduct a systematic survey of GSTP1 polymorphisms and their function. Nearly all variants detected were known polymorphisms: IVS4+13C>A; Ile105Val; Ala114Val; and g.2596T>C (Ser185Ser). However, we also found a novel Phe151Leu substitution in an African-American subject (1 out of 111). Kinetic parameters for the conjugation reaction with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) were determined for the novel variant enzyme purified via heterologous expression in Escherichia coli. Five substrates were used for measurement of specific activities, including isothiocyanate compounds that occur in cruciferous vegetables (benzylisothiocyanate, phenethylisothiocyanate, and sulforaphane). Such isothiocyanate substrates are potential cancer chemopreventive agents that are conjugated by GSTs. No major change in kinetic parameters was observed. However, the half-life at 50 degrees C of the Leu 151 enzyme was reduced to 12 min, as compared to 28 min for the Phe 151 enzyme. Residue 151 is located at the N-terminus of helix alpha6 in GST motif II, surrounded by hydrophobic residues, and near the conserved "hydrophobic staple" and N-capping box motifs. These local structural elements aid in formation of helix alpha6 and promote proper folding and protein stability. Analysis of the three-dimensional structure showed that substitution of Phe 151 with Leu produces a hydrophobic cavity in the GSTP1 core, thereby destabilizing its structure. Phe151Leu represents one of the first-described allelic variations in a protein folding motif.
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), which occurs in approximately 17 to 40% of Americans, encompasses progressive stages of liver damage ranging from steatosis to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Inflammation and oxidative stress are known characteristics of NAFLD; however, the precise mechanisms occurring during disease progression remain unclear. The purpose of the current study was to determine whether the expression or function of enzymes involved in the antioxidant response, NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1), glutathione transferase (GST), and glutamate cysteine ligase, are altered in the progression of human NAFLD. Human livers staged as normal, steatotic, NASH (fatty), and NASH (not fatty) were obtained from the Liver Tissue Cell Distribution System. NQO1 mRNA, protein, and activity tended to increase with disease progression. mRNA levels of the GST isoforms A1, A2, A4, M3, and P1 increased with NAFLD progression. Likewise, GST A and P protein increased with progression; however, GST M protein levels tended to decrease. Of interest, total GST activity toward the substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene decreased with NAFLD progression. GSH synthesis does not seem to be significantly dysregulated in NAFLD progression; however, the GSH/ oxidized glutathione redox ratio seemed to be reduced with disease severity, indicating the presence of oxidative stress and depletion of GSH throughout progression of NAFLD. Malondialdehyde concentrations were significantly increased with disease progression, further indicating the presence of oxidative stress. Nuclear immunohistochemical staining of nuclear factor E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), an indicator of activation of the transcription factor, was evident in all stages of NAFLD. The current data suggest that Nrf2 activation occurs in response to disease progression followed by induction of specific Nrf2 targets, whereas functionality of specific antioxidant defense enzymes seems to be impaired as NAFLD progresses.
Washed human platelets prevent edema formation in isolated rabbit lungs infused with xanthine oxidase, an enzyme that injures endothelial membranes by generating extracellular oxidants. We hypothesized that platelets would similarly preserve membrane permeability in isolated lungs exposed to ischemia-reperfusion injury, a model that perturbs endothelial cells by the generation of intracellular oxidants. Isolated perfused rabbit lungs (IPL) were exposed to warm ischemia-reperfusion to cause lung edema. The infusion of washed human platelets (1.05 +/- 0.02 x 10(10) cells) prevented edema formation as measured by lung weight gain, wet-to-dry lung weight ratios, histological edema, and preservation of paraendothelial cell tight junctions. Inhibition of the platelet glutathione redox cycle with 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea, dehydroepiandrosterone, or 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene interfered with platelet protective effects. In contrast, inhibition of platelet catalase with aminotriazole and H2O2 had no effect on platelet protection. Lung tissue malonyldialdehyde concentrations were similar in isolated lungs exposed to ischemia-reperfusion with or without the infusion of platelets. These results indicate that platelet attenuation of ischemia-reperfusion lung edema depends on platelet glutathione redox cycle antioxidants but not platelet catalase.
1-Chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and m-dinitrobenzene were mutagenic on Salmonella typhimurium TA98 without S-9mix. But 1-substituted-2,4-dinitrobenzene derivatives which substituted by electron releasing groups such as OH-, NH2- or CH3- did not show mutagenicity on Salmonella typhimurium TA98 without S-9mix. Tm of calf thymus DNA was elevated by addition of m-dinitrobenzene or 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, and falled by addition of 1-substituted-2,4-dinitrobenzenes which substituted by electron releasing substituents such as OH-, NH2- or CH3- groups. The mutagenic dinitrobenzene derivatives such as 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene showed the special changes in the difference spectra about four bases of the DNA and this compound.
Abstract Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a chronic inflammatory skin disease that was influenced by complex interactions via genetic, environmental, immunologic, and biochemical factors, though the cause of AD is still unknown. It characterized by elevated serum immunoglobulin E (IgE) levels, immunological abnormalities, and eosinophilia in the tissues and peripheral blood. In the present study, we applied an antimicrobial moisturizing cream containing low-molecular weight water-soluble chitosan and herbal honey (AMCH) to remedy AD-like lesions. The inhibiting effect of AMCH on NC/Nga mice, that AD-like lesion was induced by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB), was evaluated by examining sensory evaluation scores, scratching behavior, immune cells in blood, serum IgE level, infiltration of mast cells, and skin histology. The total sensory evaluation scores, scratching behavior, the level of serum IgE, interlukin-4 (IL-4), and IL-12 in AD mouse model were significantly reduced by AMCH. Moreover, its suppressing effect resulted in decreased mast cell infiltration. Our results suggest that AMCH might be beneficial as a potent agent for treatment of AD-like lesion.
A number of human prostatic tissue biopsies have been analyzed for glutathione S-transferase activity, using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as a substrate. Samples from nine patients (age range 61-90) with benign prostatic hypertrophy who had received no prior chemotherapy had a mean glutathione S-transferase activity of 137 +/- 44 nmol/min per mg with a range of 97-237. A qualitative comparison of the glutathione S-transferase of normal prostate and benign prostatic hypertrophy samples was carried out. Approximately 260-fold purification was achieved using glutathione-Sepharose affinity chromatography, with glutathione S-transferase accounting for approximately 0.19-0.33% of the total protein. Substrate specificity determinations suggested similar, but not identical, glutathione S-transferase subunits in normal prostate and benign prostatic hypertrophy. One- and two-dimensional electrophoresis (isoelectric focusing and 12.5% SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis) identified at least seven stained polypeptides in the purified glutathione S-transferase preparations. These ranged in Mr from approximately 24,000 to 28,500 and in pI from near neutral to basic. Western blot analysis using polyclonal antibodies raised against rat liver glutathione S-transferase suggested crossreactivity with five of the human isoenzymes in both normal prostate and benign prostatic hypertrophy. One of the glutathione S-transferases, present in both normal prostate and benign prostatic hypertrophy, had an Mr of approx. 24,000 and a near-neutral pI and crossreacted immunologically with a polyclonal antibody raised against human placental glutathione S-transferase (Yf, subunit 7 or pi). These data suggest that four glutathione S-transferases are expressed in human prostate, with subunits from each of the major classes alpha, mu and pi. These are characterized as Ya, Yb, Yb' and Yf (analogous alternative nomenclature subunits 1, 3, 4 and 7).
Abstract Enzyme activity of homogeneous glutathione S -transferases A, B, and C with reduced glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was inhibited in varying degrees by 50 μ m concentrations of monosulfate and disulfate derivatives of several steroids. In contrast, transferase AA activity was not affected. Of the inhibitors tested, estradiol-3,17-disulfate and estradiol-3-sulfate were the most inhibitory, followed by pregnenolone sulfate, estradiol-17-sulfate, dehydroisoandrosterone sulfate, and cortisol sulfate. Transferases A and C were most affected, especially by estradiol disulfate and estradiol-3-sulfate, which exhibited essentially complete inhibition at a concentration of μ m . Double reciprocal plots of estradiol disulfate inhibition with respect to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene concentration showed uncompetitive inhibition with transferases A and C and noncompetitive inhibition with transferase B (ligandin). With reduced glutathione as the variable substrate, transferases A and C exhibited noncompetitive inhibition kinetics, while transferase B showed partial noncompetitive kinetics.
Glutathione S-transferase from an Aedes albopictus cell line, C6/36, was purified to apparent homogeneity by a single glutathione-Sepharose 4B affinity chromatography, with an overall yield of 66% and 226-fold purification. The enzyme is presumably a homodimer with subunit M(r) 23,000, which is similar to the enzyme isolated from other sources. Under native conditions, the enzyme exhibited multiple forms upon isoelectric focusing or polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, and all these forms retained enzymatic activity. The pI value of the purified enzyme was distributed between approximately 4.7 and 5.4 with major form at 4.9. The purified enzyme lost 63% activity at -20 degrees C within 1 week. Stability of the purified enzyme was greatly improved by the addition 10 mg/ml of bovine serum albumin, under which only 7% activity was lost after 1 week at -20 degrees C. Activation energy for the enzyme-catalyzed conjugation of glutathione with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was found to be 49.1 kJ/mol. The enzyme could utilize 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and ethacrynic acid as substrate, but not bromosulfophthalein, cumene hydroperoxide, or trans-4-phenyl-3-buten-2-one. The initial-velocity and product-inhibition studies indicated that the enzyme reaction conformed to a steady-state random Bi-Bi kinetic mechanism, which was similar to the glutathione S-transferase from other sources. The kinetic data also indicated a synergistic effect between the binding of glutathione G-site and that of organic electrophilic substrate in the H-site of the enzyme active center. The biological significance of the conjugation reaction is discussed.
This paper deals with the purification and the partial characterization of glutathione S-transferase (GST) isoforms from the clam Ruditapes decussatus. For the first step of purification, two affinity columns, reduced glutathione (GSH)–agarose and S-hexyl GSH–agarose, were mounted in series. Four affinity fractions were thus recovered. Further purification was performed using anion exchange chromatography. Seven fractions, which present a GST activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrate, were collected and analyzed by RP-HPLC. Seven distinct GST isoforms were purified, six of them were homodimers, the last one was a heterodimer consisting of the subunits 3 and 6. Kinetic parameters were studied. Results showed that isoforms have distinct affinity and Vmax for GSH and CDNB as substrates. The catalytic activity of the heterodimer isoform appeared to be a combination of the ability of each subunit. The immunological properties of each purified isoform were investigated using three antisera anti-pi, anti-mu and anti-alpha mammalian GST classes. Three isoforms (3-3, 6-6 and 3-6) seem to be closely related to the pi-class GST. Both isoforms 1-1 and 2-2 cross-reacted with antisera to pi and alpha classes and the isoform 5-5 cross-reacted with the antisera to mu and pi classes. Subunit 4 was recognized by the three antisera used, and its N-terminal amino acid analysis showed high identity (53%) with a conserved sequence of an alpha/mµ/pi GST from Fasciola hepatica.
Glutathione S-transferase was purified from bovine erythrocytes and some kinetic and characteristic properties of the enzyme were investigated. The purification procedure was composed of preparation of homogenate and Glutathione- Agarose affinity chromatography. Thanks to the procedure, the enzyme was purified 6,800 fold with 97% yield and a specific activity of 136 EU/mg proteins. On sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS/PAGE), one band with a mass of 27 kDa was found. The native molecular weight of the enzyme was found to be approximately 53 kDa by Sephadex G-100 gel filtration chromatography. Optimum pH, stable pH, optimum temperature, and optimum ionic strength were determined as 7.0, 6.5 in K-phosphate buffer, 20 °C, 0.1 M K-phosphate, respectively. The best activity was obtained with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) in a study performed with different substrates. Vmax, Km, and kcat values were calculated as 402.63 ± 4.99 EU/mg proteins, 0.7447 ± 0.0007 mM, and 11436 min-1 for CDNB, and 88.00 ± 2.30 EU/mg proteins, 0.3257 ± 0.0012 mM, and 477 min-1 for GSH, respectively, by using Lineweaver-Burk graphs obtained from 1/V versus 1/[CDNB] and 1/[GSH].
Mice are resistant to aflatoxin carcinogenicity primarily due to expression of a glutathione S-transferase (mYc) with high catalytic activity toward aflatoxin B1-8,9-epoxide (AFBO). In contrast, rats are more sensitive to aflatoxin carcinogenicity due to the constitutive expression of a glutathione S-transferase with relatively low catalytic activity toward AFBO (rYc1). To identify the contribution of different regions of the mYc protein that confer high catalytic activity toward AFBO, six chimeric mYc/rYc1 GST enzymes were generated utilizing full and partial restriction enzyme digestions at two conserved StyI sites in the mYc and rYc1 complementary DNAs (between amino acid residues 56-57 and 142-143). Recombinant wild-type and chimeric glutathione S-transferases were bacterially expressed, affinity purified, and their catalytic activities measured toward AFBO, delta 5-androstene-3,17-dione, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, and ethacrynic acid. The set of chimeras displayed a wide range of catalytic activities toward the substrates assayed. The chimeras with the greatest activity toward AFBO were 1:56rat-57: 221mouse and 1:56mouse-57:142rat-143:221mouse, with AFBO conjugating activities 200 and 8 times greater than wild-type rYc1, respectively. These results demonstrate that the residues that confer high AFBO conjugation activity in mYc are located in the region spanning residues 57-221.
The refined (AUS concept, CCl4, external ref.) 1H NMR method provided association constants K and approximate complex shifts IK for stacking complexes of aromatic hydrocarbons D with A when A is 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (1) or is related to 1. D covers the benzene ring of A but torsionally vibrating substituents in A influence topology and K. In the absence of D, vibrations of A can be slowed by low temperatures making A signals go downfield in accord with an increased planarity of A. Vibration of CHO (a dipole) in complexes of 1 with benzene B or toluene T is made non-symmetric by interactions with the quadrupole of D. The large naphthalene (N) hinders vibrations thus enhancing the contact interface by a more planar 1 whose intramolecular ::: deshielding of protons is increased providing small IK values. Aldehyde 1 forms complexes both with T and with its stacking dimer T2 since IK values for 1–T are significantly greater than for 1–B. Complexing with T2 is not found when the molecular dimensions of A allow a dipole–dipole interaction with T as in face-to-face complexes of 1-ethyltheobromine or of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (7). Different protons give slightly different values of K for 7–T and this points to an isomeric edge-on complex with both T and T2 where K for the two edge-on protons (shortest distance to D) is the sum ::: of the binary K and the small K for the the ternary (7 + T2) complex. Compound 7 and 1,3,5-trimethylbenzene show some of the effect described for 1–N.
The reactions of imidazole with 1-chloro- and 1-fluoro-2,4-dinitrobenzenes in dimethyl sulfoxide are not catalysed by imidazole. DABCO or imidazolium perchlorate. In acetonitrile these reactions are not catalysed by the nucleophile or DABCO but the second-order rate constant kA has a linear dependence on the concentration of tetrabutylammonium chloride and is depressed by the addition of imidazolium perchlorate. In this solvent the reaction of imidazole with 1-bromo-2,4-dinitro-benzene is not catalysed by the nucleophile and the kABr/kACl ratio is 0.90. These results are rationalised in terms of the conventional mechanism of aromatic nucleophilic substitution reactions in aprotic solvents of high relative permittivity, with chloride ion catalysing the formation of the intermediate in acetonitrile solution.In benzene the reaction of imidazole with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene is strongly catalysed by the nucleophile and by tetrabutylammonium chloride and weakly by pyridine. The corresponding reaction with 1-bromo-2,4-dinitrobenzene is also strongly catalysed by imidazole and there is little difference in the reactivity of the two substrates. The catalysis of the reactions by amines observed here, and that previously reported in the literature, is explained as being due to reaction taking place via complexes formed from the reactants and catalysts.
We have sought the structural basis for the differing substrate specificities of human glutathione transferase P1-1 (class Pi) and human glutathione transferase A1-1 (class Alpha) by adding an extra helix (helix 9), found in the electrophilic substrate-binding site (H-site) of the human class Alpha enzyme, at the C terminus of the human class Pi enzyme. This class Pi-chimera (CODA) was expressed in Escherichia coli, purified and characterized by kinetic and crystallographic approaches. The presence of the newly engineered tail in the H-site of the human Pi enzyme alters its catalytic properties towards those exhibited by the human Alpha enzyme, as assessed using cumene hydroperoxide (diagnostic for class Alpha enzymes) and ethacrynic acid (diagnostic for class Pi) as co-substrates. There is a change of substrate selectivity in the latter case, as the k(cat)/K(m)(EA) value decreases about 70-fold, compared to that of class Pi. With 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as co-substrate there is a loss of catalytic activity to about 2% with respect to that of the Pi enzyme. Crystallographic and kinetic studies of the class Pi-chimera provide important clues to explain these altered catalytic properties. The new helix forms many complimentary interactions with the rest of the protein and re-models the original electrophilic substrate-binding site towards one that is more enclosed, albeit flexible. Of particular note are the interactions between Glu205 of the new tail and the catalytic residues, Tyr7 and Tyr108, and the thiol moiety of glutathione (GSH). These interactions may provide an explanation of the more than one unit increase in the pK(a) value of the GSH thiolate and affect both the turnover number and GSH binding, using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as co-substrate. The data presented are consistent with the engineered tail adopting a highly mobile or disordered state in the apo form of the enzyme.
We studied the effects of adding washed human platelets or platelets with nonintact glutathione redox cycles to endothelial cell monolayers treated with glucose oxidase to initiate oxidant stress and increase permeability. Changes in 125I-labeled albumin transmonolayer movement were used as the index of monolayer permeability. Washed human platelets attenuated oxidant-induced increases in albumin flux. Platelets treated with 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosurea, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, or buthionine sulfoximine to inhibit selective enzymatic steps in the glutathione redox cycle decreased permeability to a lesser degree. We conclude that 1) washed human platelets attenuate monolayer permeability defects in aortic endothelial monolayers exposed to glucose oxidase and 2) the protective effects of platelets are partially dependent on an intact platelet glutathione redox cycle.
Glutathione-S-transferase (GST) is a family of enzymes involved in the detoxification of toxic and carcinogenic compounds. In the present study, the effect of thioacetamide (TA), a hepatotoxic and hepatocarcinogenic compound, on the activity and expression of GST of Wistar female rats was tested. Animals were treated with a single dose of TA (250 mg/kg) for 12, 24, 48 and 72 hours. GST activity toward the broad substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was enhanced by TA. The protein level of the GST classes alpha and mu as well as the mRNA level of several GST subunits were also positively affected by the TA treatment. Female Wistar rats of the same age but from two other different colonies had their GST activity either inhibited or not affected by TA. The basal mRNA level of class alpha and class mu GST was also tested in female Wistar rats obtained from five different sources. Differences in the basal level of class alpha mRNA were observed in rats from at least three different sources, while class mu mRNA...
Abstract Ganoderma lucidum is used as a functional food and medicinal mushroom in Asia. Biosynthesis of its active ingredients, the ganoderic acids (GAs), together with signal transduction related to the fungal biology of G. lucidum, are critical for this application. However, regulation of G. lucidum GA biosynthesis and signal transduction remains enigmatic. We investigated the role of reactive oxygen species (ROS) on biosynthesis of individual GAs and on MAPK (mitogen-activated protein kinase) signaling. Antioxidant treatment decreased lanosta-7,9(11), 24-trien-3α-01-26-oic acid (ganoderic acid 24) and total GA production. Cultures incubated with the pro-oxidant CDNB (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene) or H2O2, increased production of ganoderic acid 24 and total GAs were found. Interestingly, CDNB reduced RNA expression of the squalene synthase and lanosterol synthase, indicating that both genes may not be bottlenecks in GA induction. H2O2 induced phosphorylation of the proteins Hog-1 and Fus3, which are homologs of the mammalian MAPKs p38 and ERK (extracellular signal-related kinases), respectively. CDNB also enhanced phosphorylation of Hog1 but had no effect on Fus3. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report indicating that ROS regulate the biosynthesis of individual GAs and affect MAPK signaling in G. lucidum. This study also identifies the potential application of ROS to the G. lucidum functional food industry.
Abstract In vitro studies with freshly drawn human erythrocytes showed 4-dimethylaminophenol, a cyanide antidote, to be rapidly metabolized with the formation of a transient S , S -(2-dimethylamino-5-hydroxy-1,3-phenylene bis-glutathione conjugate and a stable S , S , S -(2-dimethylamino-5-hydroxy-1,3,4-phenylene tris-glutathione conjugate. The stable tri-glutathionyl derivative was actively transported across the red cell membrane with an apparent V max = 1 nmol/min/ml red cell suspension (15 g hemoglobin/100 ml) and K m = 0.5 mM. The transport system was strictly unidirectional, inhibited completely by sodium fluoride and reduced to one-fifth by lowering the temperature from 37 to 22°. Similarly tS -(2,4-dinitrophenyl)-glutathione, the glutathione- S -transferase mediated glutathione- S -conjugate with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, was unidirectionally transported, a process which was inhibited by sodium fluoride. Kinetic analysis revealed two different transport processes: V max = 0.9 nmol/min/ml, K m = 1.4 μ M and V max = 4.5 nmol/min/ml, K m = 700 μ M . Mutual inhibition of the low affinity transport system was found for both glutathione- S -conjugates. The apparent energies of activation for all these transport processes and for GSSG were identical (70 kJ/mol) suggesting at least one common carrier for the excretion of the three glutathione- S -conjugates.
The second-order rate constant kA for the reaction of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene with N-methylaniline increases slightly with the addition of quaternary ammonium salts according to the equation kA=k′+k″[salt]. Values of k″/k′ of 8.9 for the chloride and 4.1 for the perchlorate are much less than the value of 240 obtained previously for the chloride when the nucleophile was aniline. Any acceleration produced by the hydrochlorides of N-methylaniline, trimethylamine, or triethylamine is less than those given by the quaternary ammonium perchlorate. The results agree with a recently proposed mechanism for the halide ion catalysis of the anilinodechlorination reaction in acetonitrile.The reaction of 1-fluoro-2,4-dinitrobenzene with N-methylaniline has a curvilinear dependence on the concentrations of tetraethylammonium chloride and the hydrochlorides of N-methylaniline and trimethylamine; the accelerations observed are greater than that produced by tetraethylammonium perchlorate. The results are interpreted as due to base catalysis by chloride ion at the intermediate stage.
Sugarcane yield and quality are affected by a number of biotic and abiotic stresses. In response to such stresses, plants may increase the activities of some enzymes such as glutathione transferase (GST), which are involved in the detoxification of xenobiotics. Thus, a sugarcane GST was modelled and molecular docked using the program LIGIN to investigate the contributions of the active site residues towards the binding of reduced glutathione (GSH) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). As a result, W13 and I119 were identified as key residues for the specificity of sugarcane GSTF1 (SoGSTF1) towards CDNB. To obtain a better understanding of the catalytic specificity of sugarcane GST (SoGSTF1), two mutants were designed, W13L and I119F. Tertiary structure models and the same docking procedure were performed to explain the interactions between sugarcane GSTs with GSH and CDNB. An electron-sharing network for GSH interaction was also proposed. The SoGSTF1 and the mutated gene constructions were cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli and the expressed protein purified. Kinetic analyses revealed different Km values not only for CDNB, but also for GSH. The Km values were 0.2, 1.3 and 0.3 mM for GSH, and 0.9, 1.2 and 0.5 mM for CDNB, for the wild type, W13L mutant and I119F mutant, respectively. The Vmax values were 297.6, 224.5 and 171.8 μmol min −1 mg −1 protein for GSH, and 372.3, 170.6 and 160.4 μmol min −1 mg −1 protein for CDNB.
Abstract The expression of different isoenzymes of glutathione transferase (GST), i.e. the cytosolic subunits GSTA1/A2, A3, A4, A5, M1/2, M2 and P1, T2, and the microsomal GST in follicles of different sizes and in corpora lutea from porcine ovary, was investigated by Western blotting. No immunoreactivity was obtained with anti-rat GSTT2 or anti-rat microsomal GST polyclonal antibodies. In contrast, GSTA1/A2, A3, A4, A5, M1/2, M2 and P1 are all expressed in the cytosol from porcine ovaries. In general, the highest levels of these GST isoenzymes were present in the cytosol from corpora lutea, in agreement with measurements of activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Imunoreactivity with anti-rat GSTP1 was only obtained with follicles. The cytosolic GSTs from follicles and corpora lutea were affinity purified on glutathione–Sepharose and separated by reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography in order to quantitate the different subunits. A peak corresponding to the class pi subunit was present in follicles. This peak was also seen with corpora lutea, although at very low level. There were four peaks containing class mu subunits. The remaining peaks were concluded to contain the class alpha subunits, except for two peaks which are suggested to contain proteins other than GSTs. The levels of the different subunits were quantitated on the basis of the areas under the peaks and the relative amounts in follicles of different sizes and in corpora lutea corresponded well with the Western blot analysis.
The SNAr reaction between 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and morpholine was used as a model system to study solvation effects in a series of mixtures involving imidazolium based ionic liquids. Iso-solvation regimes (i.e. a solvent composition regime where the solute is being solvated by approximately the same number of different solvent molecules in the mixture) are reported for the first time in ionic liquid mixtures, for 4 mixtures including [EMIM][SCN][DCN], [BMIM][DCN][BF4], [BMIM][BF4][PF6] and [BMIM][PF6][FAP]. The results show that for significant changes in composition, the rate coefficients remain approximately constant. An additional interesting result is that the mixture [BMIM][BF4][PF6] (in the proportion of 0.9 for the molar fraction of BMIMBF4) shows a slightly better kinetic performance as compared to pure BMIMBF4 and BMIMPF6. Finally, for the [EMIM][SCN][DCN] mixture, an increasing proportion of EMIMSCN with respect to EMIMDCN results in a decrease in the rate coefficient within the range of {0.1–0.75} for the molar fraction of EMIMSCN. This result may be traced to competition between the anions [SCN−] and [DCN−] towards the reaction center driven by the basicity of the reaction medium.
The Saccharomyces cerevisiae genome encodes three proteins that display similarities with human GSTOs (Omega class glutathione S-transferases) hGSTO1-1 and hGSTO2-2. The three yeast proteins have been named Gto1, Gto2 and Gto3, and their purified recombinant forms are active as thiol transferases (glutaredoxins) against HED (β-hydroxyethyl disulphide), as dehydroascorbate reductases and as dimethylarsinic acid reductases, while they are not active against the standard GST substrate CDNB (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene). Their glutaredoxin activity is also detectable in yeast cell extracts. The enzyme activity characteristics of the Gto proteins contrast with those of another yeast GST, Gtt1. The latter is active against CDNB and also displays glutathione peroxidase activity against organic hydroperoxides such as cumene hydroperoxide, but is not active as a thiol transferase. Analysis of point mutants derived from wild-type Gto2 indicates that, among the three cysteine residues of the molecule, only the residue at position 46 is required for the glutaredoxin activity. This indicates that the thiol transferase acts through a monothiol mechanism. Replacing the active site of the yeast monothiol glutaredoxin Grx5 with the proposed Gto2 active site containing Cys46 allows Grx5 to retain some activity against HED. Therefore the residues adjacent to the respective active cysteine residues in Gto2 and Grx5 are important determinants for the thiol transferase activity against small disulphide-containing molecules.
Abstract Presteady-state and steady-state kinetics of human glutathione transferase P1-1 (EC) have been studied at pH 5.0 by using 7-chloro-4-nitrobenzo-2-oxa-1,3-diazole, a poor co-substrate for this isoenzyme. Steady-state kinetics fits well with the simplest rapid equilibrium random sequential bi-bi mechanism and reveals a strong intrasubunit synergistic modulation between the GSH-binding site (G-site) and the hydrophobic binding site for the co-substrate (H-site); the affinity of the G-site for GSH increases about 30 times at saturating co-substrate and vice versa. Presteady-state experiments and thermodynamic data indicate that the rate-limiting step is a physical event and, probably, a structural transition of the ternary complex. Similar to that observed with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (Ricci, G., Caccuri, A. M., Lo Bello, M., Rosato, N., Mei, G., Nicotra, M., Chiessi, E., Mazzetti, A. P., and Federici, G. (1996) J. Biol. Chem. 271, 16187-16192), this event may be related to the frequency of enzyme motions. The observed low, viscosity-independent kcat value suggests that these motions are slow and diffusion-independent for an increased internal viscosity. In fact, molecular modeling suggests that the hydroxyl group of Tyr-108, which resides in helix 4, may be in hydrogen bonding distance of the oxygen atom of this new substrate, thus yielding a less flexible H-site. This effect might be transmitted to the G-site via helix 4. In addition, a new homotropic behavior exhibited by 7-chloro-4-nitrobenzo-2-oxa-1,3-diazole is found in Cys-47 mutants revealing a structural intersubunit communication between the two H-sites.
N-ethyl maleimide (NEM), reduced glutathione (GSH), xylenol orange, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB), sorbitol, dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO), Tween-20, and ethyleneglycoltetraacetic acid (EGTA) were from Sigma (St Louis, MO). Sodium azide was from Fisons (Loughborough, Leics, United Kingdom). Ferrous ammonium sulfate was obtained from J. T. Baker (Phillipsburg, NJ), and glycerol was from Merck (Darmstadt, Germany). Glucose, ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA), N-2-hydroxyethylpiperazine-NЈ-2-ethanesulfonic acid (HEPES), bromophenol blue, sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS), and H 2 O 2 (30% wt/vol) were supplied by BDH (Poole, England). Tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane (Tris), CHAPS, and Complete protease cocktail tablets were purchased from Roche (Mannheim, Germany).
The Thioredoxin (Trx)/Thioredoxin reductase (TrxR)-system has emerged as a crucial component of many cellular functions particularly antioxidant defence. We investigated the effect of the selective TrxR inhibitor 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) on survival and redox status in neuronal cell lines. CDNB was found to cause apoptosis without depletion of glutathione or loss of mitochondrial complex I-activity. Cells treated with CDNB displayed an early increase of reactive oxygen species and rapid activation of stress inducible protein kinases c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and mitogen activated protein kinase kinase 4 (MKK4). Thus TrxR inhibition by CDNB results in generation of reactive oxygen species and subsequent activation of stress-inducible kinases without impairment of the cellular antioxidant status or mitochondrial function. Inhibition of the specific kinases involved in cell death triggered by Trx/TrxR dysfunction could represent a novel and selective therapeutic approach in neurodegenerative disorders.
Summary Mitochondrial glutathione (GSH) and thioredoxin (Trx) systems function independently of the rest of the cell. While maintenance of mitochondrial thiol redox state is thought vital for cell survival, this was not testable due to the difficulty of manipulating the organelle's thiol systems independently of those in other cell compartments. To overcome this constraint we modified the glutathione S-transferase substrate and Trx reductase (TrxR) inhibitor, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) by conjugation to the mitochondria-targeting triphenylphosphonium cation. The result, MitoCDNB, is taken up by mitochondria where it selectively depletes the mitochondrial GSH pool, catalyzed by glutathione S-transferases, and directly inhibits mitochondrial TrxR2 and peroxiredoxin 3, a peroxidase. Importantly, MitoCDNB inactivates mitochondrial thiol redox homeostasis in isolated cells and in vivo, without affecting that of the cytosol. Consequently, MitoCDNB enables assessment of the biomedical importance of mitochondrial thiol homeostasis in reactive oxygen species production, organelle dynamics, redox signaling, and cell death in cells and in vivo.
GST activities against 1-Chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB) were measured in isolated and cultured adult rat hepatocytes. Within 24 h in culture, both GST activities decreased to about 70% and either stabilized at this level (CDNB) or recovered (DCNB) to the initial level. Use of hyaluronidase in addition to collagenase during the isolation of the cells strongly reduced both activities and its stimulation by various drugs for up to 168 h. The hormones insulin, glucagon, triiodothyronine, estradiol, testosterone, and progesterone did not affect GST activity, while dexamethasone showed some interference. In the presence of dexamethasone the activity against CDNB was mainly stimulated by the combination of methylcholanthrene (MC) and phenobarbital (PB) to about 260% within 168 h. The activity against DCNB was stimulated predominantly by MC alone reaching 170% after 168 h. Quantification of the GST subunits Ya, Yb1 and Yp by an ELISA technique revealed a strong decrease of Ya, a transient increase of Yb1 after 24 h followed by a moderate decrease, and a stable low level of the transformation marker Yp during cultivation. The level of Ya was markedly induced by PB, particularly in combination with MC. The level of Yb1 was equally induced by MC or PB with no synergistic effect. Yp was not affected by these drugs. None of the hormones affected the level of these GST subunits. These results indicate that the physiological type of regulation of the GSTs is maintained during primary culture and no signs of dedifferentiation or transformation are observed. Furthermore, they demonstrate that the interaction of drugs and hormones and their inducing potential can be efficiently studied in the cultured hepatocytes.
Abstract Brain mitochondria are not only major producers of reactive oxygen species but they also considerably contribute to the removal of toxic hydrogen peroxide by the glutathione (GSH) and thioredoxin-2 (Trx2) antioxidant systems. In this work we estimated the relative contribution of both systems and catalase to the removal of intrinsically produced hydrogen peroxide (H 2 O 2 ) by rat brain mitochondria. By using the specific inhibitors auranofin and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB), the contribution of Trx2- and GSH-systems to reactive oxygen species (ROS) detoxification in rat brain mitochondria was determined to be 60 ± 20% and 20 ± 15%, respectively. Catalase contributed to a non-significant extent only, as revealed by aminotriazole inhibition. In digitonin-treated rat hippocampal homogenates inhibition of Trx2- and GSH-systems affected mitochondrial hydrogen peroxide production rates to a much higher extent than the endogenous extramitochondrial hydrogen peroxide production, pointing to a strong compartmentation of ROS metabolism. Imaging experiments of hippocampal slice cultures showed on single cell level substantial heterogeneity of hydrogen peroxide detoxification reactions. The strongest effects of inhibition of hydrogen peroxide removal by auranofin or DNCB were detected in putative interneurons and microglial cells, while pyramidal cells and astrocytes showed lower effects. Thus, our data underline the important contribution of the Trx2-system to hydrogen peroxide detoxification in rat hippocampus. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: 17th European Bioenergetics Conference (EBEC 2012).
Enzymes of the glutathione-dependent detoxification pathway (glutathione S-transferase and gamma-glutamyl-transpeptidase) were induced, and the glutathione pool was completely depleted by phenoxyacetic acid in Penicillium chrysogenum mycelia incubated for 15 h in a culture medium containing lactose as a carbon source and sodium glutamate as a nitrogen source. A significant increase in both the oxidised glutathione concentrations and the glutathione reductase activities were also observed. 1-Chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene--a potent substrate and inducer of glutathione S-transferase-initiated very similar physiological changes but no beta-lactam production could be detected in this case. When (NH4)2HPO4 was used as a nitrogen source the penicillin biosynthesis was repressed and the induction of gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase by phenoxyacetic acid was hindered considerably.
The present work focuses on the glutathione transferase (GST) Alpha-class enzymes, their characteristics as steroid isomerases and structural plasticity as malleable scaffolds for protein design. The GSTs are a family of detoxication enzymes that appears to have a wider variety of additional functions.Kinetic steady-state parameters for human GST A1-1 with the steroid isomerase substrate Δ5-androstene-3,17-dione (AD), an intermediate in steroid hormone biosynthesis, were determined. It was established that GST A1-1 is a highly efficient steroid isomerase with a 30-fold higher catalytic efficiency, in terms of kcat/Km, than 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase/Δ5→4-isomerase, the enzyme regarded as the mammalian Δ5→4-isomerase in steroid hormone biosynthesis. Kinetic parameters were also determined for GST A2-2, GST A4-4 and the GST A1-1 mutant Y9F. From the dependency on pH of the kinetic parameters it was established that efficient catalysis requires glutathione (GSH) in its deprotonated form and it is suggested that the GSH-thiolate acts as a base in the catalysis of the Δ5→4-3-ketosteroid isomerase reaction.GST A2-2 is a poor catalyst of the steroid isomerase reaction while GST A3-3 is highly efficient. Their catalytic efficiencies (kcat/Km) differ 5000-fold. Stepwise point mutations were performed to GST A2-2 in order to insert the amino acid residues from the active-site of GST A3-3 that distinguishes the two isoenzymes. The result was that GST A2-2 was redesigned to a highly efficient double-bond isomerase with both the catalytic constant (kcat) and catalytic efficiency (kcat/Km) in the same order as for GST A3-3. Furthermore, this was done by only exchanging amino-acid residues with first-sphere interactions, providing empirical proof-of principle for knowledge-based enzyme design.Kinetic studies on GST A1-1 and a T68E mutant of GST A1-1 were also performed with a GSH analog lacking the g-glutamate a-carboxylate (dGSH), and using three different electrophilic substrates (AD; 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, CDNB; 4-nitrocinnamaldehyde). Deletion of the a-carboxylate from the GSH glutamate had a severe impact on all reaction constants and it changed the rate-limiting step for the CDNB reaction as well as changed the pKa value for the enzyme-bound GSH thiol. The loss in activity caused by dGSH could in part be compensated by the T68E mutant contributing an enzyme-bound carboxylate instead.The C-terminus of GST A1-1 is flexible and folds over the active site when the enzyme binds a substrate. Phenylalanine residues in the C-terminal end, known to interact with active-site residues tyrosine 9 and phenylalanine 10, were mutated to abolish those interactions. Studies of viscosity dependence for CDNB and AD with regard to kcat and kcat/Km showed that the dynamic C-terminal segment influence rate-determining steps for both the larger isomerase substrate, AD, as well as for the smaller conjugation substrate, CDNB.
To determine the mechanism responsible for the enhanced susceptibility of endothelial cells to oxidant injury in the absence of glucose, we induced endothelial cell injury with oxygen radicals in the presence of various oxygen radical scavengers and measured endothelial cell levels of glutathione after oxidant injury in the presence and absence of glucose. Endothelial cells were damaged with toxic oxygen radicals generated by phorbol myristate acetate (PMA)-activated polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNs) or xanthine-xanthine oxidase in the presence and absence of glucose and catalase (scavenger of hydrogen peroxide), superoxide dismutase (scavenger of superoxide radical), isoleucine, valine, and serine (scavengers of hypochlorous acid), or mannitol, ethanol, benzoic acid, dimethyl sulfoxide, and dimethyl thiourea (scavengers of hydroxyl radical). Endothelial cell injury was quantitated by 2-deoxy-[1-3H] glucose or chromium 51 release assays or both. In each oxidant-generating system, in the presence and absence of glucose, only catalase significantly protected endothelial cells from oxidant injury (P less than 0.001). When endothelial cells were damaged by hydrogen peroxide generated with xanthine-xanthine oxidase in the presence of glucose, endothelial cell levels of glutathione remained unchanged. In contrast, when endothelial cells were damaged with xanthine-xanthine oxidase in the absence of glucose, endothelial cell levels of glutathione fell to less than 50% of baseline (P less than 0.05). Xanthine-xanthine oxidase-mediated endothelial cell damage and depletion of glutathione in the absence of glucose were similar to results obtained in the presence of glucose when glutathione was depleted with buthionine sulfoximine, diethyl maleate, or 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A library of Tau class GSTs (glutathione transferases) was constructed by DNA shuffling using the DNA encoding the Glycine max GSTs Gm GSTU2-2, Gm GSTU4-4 and Gm GSTU10-10. The parental GSTs are >88% identical at the sequence level; however, their specificity varies towards different substrates. The DNA library contained chimaeric structures of alternated segments of the parental sequences and point mutations. Chimaeric GST sequences were expressed in Escherichia coli and their enzymatic activities towards CDNB (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene) and the herbicide fluorodifen (4-nitrophenyl α,α,α-trifluoro-2-nitro- p -tolyl ether) were determined. A chimaeric clone (Sh14) with enhanced CDNB- and fluorodifen-detoxifying activities, and unusual co-operative kinetics towards CDNB and fluorodifen, but not towards GSH, was identified. The structure of Sh14 was determined at 1.75 A (1 A=0.1 nm) resolution in complex with S -( p -nitrobenzyl)-glutathione. Analysis of the Sh14 structure showed that a W114C point mutation is responsible for the altered kinetic properties. This was confirmed by the kinetic properties of the Sh14 C114W mutant. It is suggested that the replacement of the bulky tryptophan residue by a smaller amino acid (cysteine) results in conformational changes of the active-site cavity, leading to enhanced catalytic activity of Sh14. Moreover, the structural changes allow the strengthening of the two salt bridges between Glu66 and Lys104 at the dimer interface that triggers an allosteric effect and the communication between the hydrophobic sites. ::: ::: * CDNB, : 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene; Gm , : Glycine max ; G-site, : GSH-binding site; GST, : glutathione transferase; GSTU, : Tau class GST; HDNB, : 1-hydroxy-2,4-dinitrobenzene; H-site, : hydrophobic site; Nb -GSH, : S -(p-nitrobenzyl)-glutathione; 4NM, : (4-nitrophenyl)methanethiol
Studies have suggested that the alpha class glutathione S-transferase (GST) may protect cells from the chemotherapeutic drugs chlorambucil and melphalan. In order to further define the function of human alpha class GST, a complementary DNA which encodes it was ligated into an expression vector under the direction of the human metallothionein-IIA promoter and stably transfected into human MCF-7 breast cancer cells in conjunction with the G418-selectable plasmid pSV2neo. Clonal cell lines were identified which expressed increased levels of GST enzyme activity (2.2- to 5.6-fold). The transfected cell lines also had increased peroxidase activity using cumene hydroperoxide as the substrate (1.9- to 3.8-fold) which is consistent with the intrinsic peroxidase activity of alpha class GSTs. Southern blot analysis indicated that genomic DNA from these cells contained a fragment indistinguishable from the transfected alpha class GST complementary DNA (850 base pairs); Northern blot analysis of total cellular RNA indicated that these cells contained appropriately sized alpha class GST RNA (980 nucleotides); and Western blot analysis indicated that, while MCF-7 cells contained no detectable alpha class GST protein, the transfected cells contained markedly elevated levels of alpha class GST but no detectable mu or pi class GST. These alpha class GST transfected cells had increased resistance to ethacrynic acid (2.1- to 3.0-fold). However, the transfected cells failed to show any increased resistance measured at the drug dosage which inhibited 50% of the colony formation to the chemotherapeutic drugs chlorambucil, melphalan, Adriamycin, or cisplatin under conditions of either continuous or 1-h drug exposure. Neither was there any change in sensitivity to the cytotoxins benzo(a)pyrene, benzo(a)pyrene-trans-7,8-dihydrodiol-9,10-epoxide (anti), or 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. These studies indicate that expression of this human alpha class GST by itself in MCF-7 human breast cancer cells does not confer resistance to the chemotherapeutic drugs tested under the conditions used in these studies.
Abstract The common marmoset is an important primate species used in drug metabolism studies. However, glutathione S-transferases (GSTs), essential drug-metabolizing enzymes involved in the conjugation of various endogenous and exogenous substrates, have not been identified or characterized in this species. In this study, 20 GSTs [including 3 microsomal GSTs (MGSTs)] were identified and characterized in marmosets. Marmoset GSTs had amino acid sequences highly identical (86–99%) to human GSTs, except for GSTA4L, which had lower identities (59–62%) with human GSTAs. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that marmoset GSTs were closely clustered with their human counterparts. Marmoset GSTs had gene and genomic structures generally similar to their human counterparts, with some differences in GSTA, GSTM, and GSTT clusters. Marmoset GST mRNAs exhibited distinct tissue expression patterns: GSTA1, GSTA3, GSTA4L, GSTK1, GSTT1, GSTZ1, and MGST1 mRNAs were expressed most abundantly in liver. Other GST mRNAs were expressed most abundantly in small intestine, lung, brain, or kidney. Expression of GSTT4 and GSTT4L mRNAs was detected only in testis. Among all 20 marmoset GST mRNAs, the most abundant mRNAs were GSTA1 mRNA in liver, small intestine, and kidney; GSTM3 mRNA in testis; and MSGT3 mRNA in brain and lung. All 20 GSTs mediated the conjugation of GST substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene; 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)propane; styrene 7,8-oxide; and/or 1-iodohexane, but with different activity levels. Kinetic analyses showed that marmoset GSTM2/GSTM5 and GSTM5/GSTT1 effectively conjugated styrene 7,8-oxide and 1-iodohexane, respectively, with the highest affinity. These results suggest that the 20 newly identified marmoset GSTs were functional drug-metabolizing enzymes able to conjugate typical GST substrates.
Certain chemicals referred toasherbicide antidotes protect sorghumfrominjury bychloroacetanilide herbicides suchas metolachlor. Theeffect ofherbicide antidotes ontheglutathione S-transferase isozymecomplement of etiolated sorghum (Sorghum bicolor [L.] Moench) shoots wasexamined. Elution profiles ofglutathione S-transferase isozymes fromuntreated andantidote-treated seedlings weregenerated byfastprotein liquid chromatography utilizing ananionexchange (MonoQ) column. Inuntreated seedlings, there weretwoglutathione Stransferase isozymes, amajorisozyme whichexhibited activity toward1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene andaminorisozyme which exhibited activity towardmetolachlor. Treating sorghum seedlings withvarious antidotes (flurazole, oxabetrinil, CGA-133205, naphthalic anhydride, dichlormid) resulted intheappearance of fourtofive additional glutathione S-transferase isozymes (depending ontheparticular antidote) which exhibited activity toward metolachlor asasubstrate andlittle ornoactivity with1-chloro2,4-dinitrobenzene. Treating etiolated sorghum shoots withmetolachlor wasalsofoundtoinduce atleast fourisozymes which exhibited activity toward theherbicide. Anincrease inglutathione S-transferase activity, measured withmetolachlor assubstrate, wasdetected within 4 h after treatment with30micromolar oxabetrinil, but36hourswererequired formaximumexpression ofactivity. Addition ofeither thetranscription inhibitor cordycepin orthetranslation inhibitor cycloheximide inhibited theappearanceofglutathione S-transferase activity measured withmetolachlor assubstrate. Theresults areconsistent withthehypothesisthat antidotes confer protection against metolachlor injury in sorghum byinducing thedenovosynthesis ofglutathione Stransferase isozymes whichcatalyze thedetoxification ofthe herbicide.
The antiproliferative effects of a Gingko biloba leaf extract to cells from tissues of the human oral cavity were studied. Toxicity to carcinoma HSC-2 cells was correlated with the prooxidative nature of the extract. G. biloba leaf extract generated reactive oxygen species (ROS) in cell culture medium and, albeit to a lesser extent, in buffer, with higher levels detected at alkaline pH. Lowered levels of ROS were detected in culture medium coamended with the extract and with either catalase or superoxide dismutase, indicating the generation of hydrogen peroxide and superoxide anion, respectively. Biological activity of the extract was through oxidative stress. Toxicity to the HSC-2 cells was lessened by the ROS scavengers, divalent cobalt and pyruvate, by catalase, and by the antioxidant, N-acetyl-L-cysteine, and was potentiated by the glutathione depleters, DL-buthionine-[S,R]-sulfoximine, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, and bis(2-chloroethyl)-N-nitrosourea. G. biloba reacted directly with authentic glutathione and lowered the intracellular glutathione content in HSC-2 cells. Induction of apoptosis upon exposure of HSC-2 cells to G. biloba extract was noted by apoptotic cell morphologies, by TUNEL staining, and by PARP cleavage. The data strongly suggest that the prooxidative nature of the G. biloba extract was the cause of apoptotic cell death.
The relationship between the intracellular GSSG level and the rate of GSSG release was studied in the isolated perfused heart. GSSG and GSH were released from the heart into the effluent perfusion fluid at rates of 110 and 370 pmol X min-1 X g of heart-1, respectively, much lower than for similar conditions in liver. Perfusion with t-butyl hydroperoxide led to an increase in GSSG release associated with an elevated level of intracellular GSSG. Saturation kinetics was found for the rate of GSSG release with respect to the intracellular GSSG level with an apparent Km value of 30 nmol X g of heart-1 and a maximal rate of 7.5 nmol X min-1 X g of heart-1. The maximal rate of GSSG release was temperature-sensitive with a temperature coefficient of 1.8. When 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was infused during perfusion with t-butyl hydroperoxide, mutual competition was found in the release of GSSG and the glutathione-S-conjugate, S-(2,4-dinitrophenyl)-glutathione. The maximal rate for the glutathione-S-conjugate transport was estimated to be 40 nmol X min-1 X g of heart-1. These results are consistent with the existence of a transport system for GSSG in rat heart, its capacity being substantially lower than that for the S-conjugate in heart and that for GSSG in liver. Thus, the sensitivity of heart to oxidative stress may be explained, in part, by a low capacity of GSSG export.
The effect of esculetin and some related coumarins (coumarin, 7-hydroxycoumarin and scopoletin) on growth of pumpkin (Cucurbita maxima Duch.) seedlings and the activities of pumpkin glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) were investigated. Coumarin and esculetin affected the growth of seedlings. The hypocotyls of affected seedlings became weak and bent at the mid region, roots became very soft with brownish discoloration, and finally seedlings died. Among the compounds tested, only esculetin inhibited CmGSTU3 and CmGSTU2 activities measured with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and at a concentration of 22 µM, it inhibited the activity of CmGSTU3 by 50 %.
The temperature and pressure dependences of $^{35}Cl$ nuclear quadrupole resonance (NQR) frequency and ::: spin–lattice relaxation time $(T_1)$ were investigated for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 1,2-dichloro-3-nitrobenzene. $(T_1)$ was measured in the temperature range 77–300 K. Furthermore, the NQR frequency (n) and $(T_1)$ for these compounds were measured as a function of pressure up to 5.1 kbar at 300 K. Relaxationwas found to be due to the torsional motion of the molecule and the reorientation motion of the nitro group. By analysing the temperature dependence of $(T_1)$, the activation energy for the reorientation motion of the nitro group was obtained. The temperature dependence of the average torsional lifetimes of the molecules and the transition probabilities W1 and W2 for the \bigtriangleup m = \pm 1 and \bigtriangleup m = \pm 2 transitions, were also obtained. Both compounds showed a non-linear variation of NQR frequencywith pressure. The pressure coefficients were observed to be positive. A thermodynamic analysis of the data was carried out to determine the constant-volume temperature coefficients of the NQR frequency. The spin–lattice relaxation time $(T_1)$ for both the compounds was found to be weakly dependent on pressure, showing that the relaxation is mainly due to the torsional motions.
cDNA clones for glutathione S-transferases A (GST-A) and A1 (GST-A1) from plaice (Pleuronectes platessa) were expressed as N-terminally 6XHis tagged proteins in Escherichia coli and purified to homogeneity from Ni-NTA silica. GST-A was an efficient catalyst for conjugation of unsaturated alkenals derived from peroxidation of polyunsaturated fatty acids with the highest activity observed with trans-non-2-enal (8 micromol min(-1) mg(-1)). GST-A1 was a very efficient Se-independent glutathione peroxidase with an activity towards cumene hydroperoxide of 25 micromol min(-1) mg(-1). Although the enzymes exhibited moderately high activities towards the model substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) they exhibited little or no activity towards other common prototypical xenobiotic substrates. Together with data for ontogeny, tissue distribution and inducibility of these enzymes, we contend that a primary function of these enzymes is protection from the harmful effects of lipid peroxidation products generated naturally or exacerbated by xenobiotic exposure.
OBJECTIVE ::: To study the inhibition of glutathione-s-transferase by total saponins of Panax notoginseng and its kinetics analysis in liver of mice. ::: ::: ::: METHOD ::: Mouse liver cytochyma enzyme was obtained by different velocity centrifugation, the mouse liver glutathione-S-transferase of michaelis constant (Km), maximum velocity (Vmax) and the inhibition of glutathione-S-transferase by total saponins of P. notoginseng of 50% inhibiting concentration (IC50), inhibition constant (KI, KIS), the type of inhibition were calculation by Lineweaver-Burk and the low of semi-effet-probit. ::: ::: ::: RESULT ::: It was found that total saponins of P. notoginseng inhibited the glutathione-S-transferase activity with IC50 of 189.54 mg x L(-1). Kinetics analysis showed the glutathione-S-transferase of Km was 0.4563 mmol x L(-1) and Vmax was 476.19 U x mg(-1) with reduced glutathione (GSH) substrate, 0.1097 mmol x L(-1) (Km) and 400.00 U x mg(-1) (Vmax) with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) substrate. Kinetics studies of total saponins of P. notoginseng on glutathione-S-transferase showed the inhibition were belong to mix-type with GSH and CDNB; the inhibition constant was 0.27 mg x L(-1) (KI), 0.68 mg x L(-1) (KIS) with GSH, and 0.21 mg x L(-1) (KI), 0.66 mg x L(-1) (KIS) with CDNB. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Total saponins of P. notoginseng strongly inhibited the glutathione-S-transferase activity.
Abstract Understanding skin metabolism is key to improve in vitro to in vivo extrapolations used to inform risk assessments of topically applied products. However, published literature is scarce and usually covers a limited and non-representative number of donors. We developed a protocol to handle and store ex vivo skin samples post-surgery and prepare skin S9 fractions to measure the metabolic activity of Phase II enzymes. Preincubation of an excess of cofactors at 37 °C for fifteen minutes in the S9 before introduction of the testing probe, greatly increased the stability of the enzymes. Using this standardised assay, the rates of sulphation (SULT) and glucuronidation (UGT) of 7-hydroxycoumarin, methylation (COMT) of dopamine and N-acetylation (NAT) of procainamide were measured in the ng/mg protein/h (converted to ng/cm2/h) range in eighty-seven individuals. Glutathione conjugation (GST) of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was assessed in a smaller pool of fifty donors; the metabolic rate was much faster and measured over six minutes using a different methodology to express rates in μg/mg protein/min (converted to μg/cm2/min). A comprehensive statistical analysis of these results was carried out, separating donors by age, gender and metabolic rate measured.
The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of high-intensity swimming exercise (HISE) on atopic dermatitis (AD). For the study, we established an AD model in BALB/c mice by repeated local exposure of house dust mite extract (Dermatophagoides farinae extract, DFE) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) to the ears. After HISE for 4 weeks, epidermal thickness, mast cell infiltration, serum immunoglobulin E (IgE), and histamine were measured. In addition, the gene expression of interleukin (IL)-5 and IL-31 in the ears was assayed. HISE increased DFE/CDNB-induced AD symptoms based on ear thickness, histopathological analysis, and serum IgE level. Moreover, HISE exercise stimulated mast cell infiltration into the ear, elevation of serum histamine, and DFE/CDNB-induced expression of IL-5 and IL-31 in the ears in the AD model. Taken together, our results indicate the possibility that HISE-induced stress gives rise to AD symptoms through the stimulation of IgE level by increasing IL-5 and IL-31 production.
In addition to their catalytic functions, GSTs (glutathione S-transferases) bind a wide variety of structurally diverse non-substrate ligands. This ligandin function is known to result in the inhibition of catalytic function. The interaction between hGSTA1-1 (human class Alpha GST with two type 1 subunits) and a non-substrate anionic ligand, BSP (bromosulphophthalein), was studied by isothermal titration calorimetry and inhibition kinetics. The binding isotherm is biphasic, best described by a set of two independent sites: a high-affinity site and a low-affinity site(s). The binding stoichiometries for these sites are 1 and 3 molecules of BSP respectively. BSP binds to the high-affinity site 80 times more tightly (Kd=0.12 μM) than it does to the low-affinity site(s) (Kd=9.1 μM). Binding at these sites is enthalpically and entropically favourable, with no linkage to protonation events. Temperature- and salt-dependent studies indicate the significance of hydrophobic interactions in the binding of BSP, and that the low-affinity site(s) displays low specificity towards the anion. Binding of BSP results in the release of ordered water molecules at these hydrophobic sites, which more than offsets unfavourable entropic changes during binding. BSP inhibition studies show that the binding of BSP to its high-affinity site does not inhibit hGSTA1-1. This site, located near Trp-20, may be related to the buffer-binding site observed in GSTP1-1. The low-affinity-binding site(s) for BSP is most probably located at or near the active site of hGSTA1-1. Binding to this site(s) results in non-competitive inhibition with respect to CDNB (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene) (KiBSP=16.8±1.9 μM). Given the properties of the H site and the relatively small size of the electrophilic substrate CDNB, it is plausible that the active site of the enzyme can simultaneously accommodate both BSP and CDNB. This would explain the non-competitive behaviour of certain inhibitors that bind the active site (e.g. BSP).
The uptake of Hg vapor (Hg0) by suspensions of human and BALB-c mouse erythrocytes was studied in a closed exposure system. The formation of catalase-compound-I and thereby the oxidation of Hg0 was initiated by microinfusion of hydrogen peroxide. The degradation of H2O2 by the glutathione (GSH)/GSH peroxidase system was reduced by t-butyl-hydroperoxide (t-BOOH) or by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). In human red blood cells, CDNB and t-BOOH increased the rate of Hg vapor oxidation at the low and intermediate H2O2 supplementation rates. In mouse erythrocytes, Hg uptake was increased by CDNB over the entire H2O2 infusion range. In human cells, t-BOOH (0.1 mM) produced a remarkably high Hg uptake even without added H2O2. This Hg uptake in absence of exogenous H2O2 was inhibited by aminotriazole as was the activity of catalase. Hence, the Hg uptake was likely to have been induced by endogenous hydrogen peroxide. These findings support the view that the intact GSH/GSH peroxidase system can diminish the efficiency of compound-I-induced Hg vapor oxidation in erythrocytes.
The objective of this paper was to investigate the protective effect of three potential herbicide safeners (3-dichloroacetyl oxazolidine and its two optical isomers) on detoxifying to chloroacetanilide herbicide acetochlor in maize. In this study, physiological and biochemical tests were conducted under laboratory condition in 2015. All safeners increased the expression levels of herbicide detoxifying enzymes, including glutathione S-transferases (GST), catalase (CAT) and peroxidase (POD) to reduce chloroacetanilide herbicide phytotoxicity in maize seedlings. Our results suggest that the R-isomer of R-29148 can induce glutathione (GSH) expression, GST activity, and affinity for the 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) substrate in maize, which can protect maize from injury by chloroacetanilide herbicide acetochlor. Further information on the chiral safener role in antioxidative enzymes activation was obtained from CAT and POD activity to overcome oxidative stress caused by the herbicide.
To obtain a comprehensive profile of the erythrocyte antioxidant defense potential during aging, we investigated copper-zinc superoxide dismutase (CuZn-SOD), seleno-dependent glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), glutathlone reductase (GSSG-RD), and glutathione-S-transferase (GSH-S-T) activities in human erythrocytes from 167 apparently healthy subjects, ages one month to 63 years (102 females, 65 males). We found a negative correlation between age and activities of CuZn-SOD (r = 0.362, P <0.001), GSSG-RD (r = 0.549, P <0.001), and GSH-S-T (r = 0.575, P <0.001). In contrast, we found a positive correlation between age and GSH-Px activity (r = 0.401, P <0.001). To evaluate aging changes, we divided the subjects into five groups: Group 1 (newborn-age one year), Group 2 (1-11 years), Group 3 (11-25 years), Group 4 (25-40 years), and Group 5 (40-63 years). Significant age-related modifications in erythrocyte enzyme activities appeared in Group 3 for CuZn-SOD, GSSG-RD, and GSH-Px activity, whereas for GSH-S-T activity age-related modifications appeared in Group 2. We found no sex-related differences in erythrocyte CuZn-SOD, GSSG-RD, GSH-Px, and GSH-S-T activities. GSH-S-T, glutathione-S-transferase; GSSG-RD, glutathione reductase; Hb, hemoglobin; and CDNB, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene.
In addition to their catalytic functions, GSTs (glutathione S-transferases) bind a wide variety of structurally diverse non-substrate ligands. This ligandin function is known to result in the inhibition of catalytic function. The interaction between hGSTA1-1 (human class Alpha GST with two type 1 subunits) and a non-substrate anionic ligand, BSP (bromosulphophthalein), was studied by isothermal titration calorimetry and inhibition kinetics. The binding isotherm is biphasic, best described by a set of two independent sites: a high-affinity site and a low-affinity site(s). The binding stoichiometries for these sites are 1 and 3 molecules of BSP respectively. BSP binds to the high-affinity site 80 times more tightly (K d = 0.12 µM) than it does to the low-affinity site(s) (K d = 9.1 µM). Binding at these sites is enthalpically and entropically favourable, with no linkage to protonation events. Temperatureand salt-dependent studies indicate the significance of hydrophobic interactions in the binding of BSP, and that the low-affinity site(s) displays low specificity towards the anion. Binding of BSP results in the release of ordered water molecules at these hydrophobic sites, which more than offsets unfavourable entropic changes during binding. BSP inhibition studies show that the binding of BSP to its high-affinity site does not inhibit hGSTA1-1. This site, located near Trp-20, may be related to the buffer-binding site observed in GSTP1-1. The low-affinity-binding site(s) for BSP is most probably located at or near the active site of hGSTA1-1. Binding to this site(s) results in non-competitive inhibition with respect to CDNB (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene) (K i BSP = 16.8 + − 1.9 µM). Given the properties of the H site and the relatively small size of the electrophilic substrate CDNB, it is plausible that the active site of the enzyme can simultaneously accommodate both BSP and CDNB. This would explain the noncompetitive behaviour of certain inhibitors that bind the active site (e.g. BSP).
Keywords: glutathione transferase; crystal structure; active site; glutathione sulfinate; thioredoxinlike domain; glutathione peroxidase Glutathione transferases (GSTs, EC 2.5.1.18), formerly known as glutathione S-transferases, are a superfamily of enzymes that play a vital role in cellular detoxification process. GSTs catalyze the conjugation of the thiol group of glutathione (GSH), the tripeptide g-Glu-Cys-Gly, to the electrophilic groups of a wide range of hydrophobic substrates, resulting in greater solubility and easier removal of the hydrophobic substrate from the cells (Mannervik and Danielson 1988; Pickett and Lu 1989; Coles and Ketterer 1990; Armstrong 1991; Tsuchida and Sato 1992; Wilce and Parker 1994; Sheehan et al. 2001 Abbreviations: GST, glutathione transferase; hGSTK, human k class GST; rGSTK, rat mitochondrial k class GST; GSH, glutathione; GSF, glutathione sulfinate; TRX, thioredoxin; CDNB, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene; DTT, dithiothreitol; MIR, multiple-isomorphous replacement; NCS, noncrystallographic symmetry; RMS, root-mean-square; GPx, glutathione peroxidase; PEG, polyethylene glycol.
Photolysis of nitroaromatic compounds in aqueous solution is a very slow and inefficient process. As already observed for a variety of organic pollutants, considerably faster degradation rates of nitrobenzene (NBE), 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), 2,4-dinitrophenol (DNP), and 4-nitrophenol (PNP) could be achieved, when the oxidative degradation of these compounds was initiated by hydroxyl radicals produced by UV-C photolysis of H2O2. Analysis of intermediate products formed during irradiation by HPLC and IC showed that cleavage of the aromatic ring should occur at an early stage of the oxidation process and that organic nitrogen was almost completely converted to nitrate. The optimal initial concentration of hydrogen peroxide ([H2O2]OPT) leading to the fastest oxidation rate, which depends on the initial substrate concentration ([S]0), could be evaluated using a simplified expression based on the main reactions involved in the first stages of the degradation process. Using only a minimum of kinetic and analytical information, this expression shows that the ratio R(OPT) (= [H2O2]OPT/[S]0) is related to the bimolecular rate constants for the reactions of hydroxyl radicals with substrate (kS) and H2O2 (kHP) and to the corresponding molar absorption coefficients (epsilonS, epsilonHP). Competition experiments between selected pairs of the substrates showed that their relative reactivity toward hydroxyl radicals could be correctly predicted using the same simplified approach. The results of our investigations as well as literature data support the general validity of the proposed procedure for optimizing oxidation rates of the UV/H2O2 process.
1. Cytochrome P-450 concentrations were similar in male and female carrier (db/+) and diabetic (db/db) mice. Benzphetamine N-demethylase and styrene oxide hydrolase activities were 47 and 65% lower in db/+ than in db/db mice. 2. UDP-Glucuronosyltransferase activity toward 1-naphthol, estrone and diethylstilbestrol was not different between db/db and db/+, but was 40% higher in db/db mice toward testosterone. 3. Glutathione S-transferase activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and ethacrynic acid was 47 and 59% lower in db/db mice than in male db/+ mice. Female db/+ mice had similar activities to those found in diabetic animals. 4. The differences in enzyme activity between hyperinsulinemic and normal animals suggest that insulin can influence both phase I and phase II biotransformations. 5. Enzyme activities in db/+ and db/db mice were compared to those in 129 REJ and Swiss Webster mice.
The in vitro interaction of organic mercury compounds with rat liver glutathione S-transferases (GST) was studied, using reduced glutathione (GSH) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrates. The inhibition of the GST activity was dose dependent, but not linear. The different GST isoenzymes were inhibited to different degrees. Kinetic studies never revealed competitive inhibition, with CDNB or with GSH as the variable substrate. Titration of remaining GSH in appropriate incubation mixtures with organomercurials revealed no GST catalyzed conjugation of these compounds with GSH. These experiments showed a spontaneous conjugation of the mercury compounds with GSH, explaining the parabolic inhibition observed in the kinetic studies with GSH as the variable substrate. Both organic and inorganic mercury are spontaneously conjugated with GSH, but interact with GST by direct binding to these proteins. This binding could have a protective function against mercury. No qualitative differences between organic and inorganic mercury were detected.
Abstract Glutathione S-transferase activities toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB) were measured from fat body homogenates of chemically-treated and untreated Spodoptera frugiperda larvae. In assays with untreated insects, four GST activities were separable on the basis of substrate preference and pH optima: two active in DCNB metabolism and two with activity toward CDNB. Both GST activities toward DCNB increased following injection of 8-methoxypsoralen (8-MOP) but were unaffected by pentamethylbenzene (PMB). Induction by 8-MOP was inhibited in a dose-dependent manner by co-administration of PMB, suggesting that PMB acts as an antagonist of 8-MOP-mediated induction. In contrast, activities toward CDNB increased following PMB, but not 8-MOP injection, and co-administration of 8-MOP blocked PMB-mediated enhancement of one GST/CDNB activity, but had no effect on the other. These results confirm previous reports of multiple forms of GSTs in insects and suggest that expression of GST activities in this insect is controlled by multiple mechanisms.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are among the enzymes involved in the phase II detoxification metabolism of wide range exogenous and endogenous compounds in living cells. Bivalves GSTs often proposed as biomarker for marine pollution detection for several reasons; filter feeder, sessile, wide range distribution, and not affected by some biotic factors. In this study, GSTs from remis Donax sp. was purified by using two affinity column; GSTrapTMHP and GSH-agarose (C3). The total recovery of CDNB-active GSTs was 12% and 3% for GSTrapTMHP and GSH-agarose (C3), respectively. SDS-PAGE of GSTrapTMHP purified extract revealed two subunits with apparent molecular masses (MW) of 29 and 26 kDa while GSH-agarose (C3) showed three subunits corresponding to 29, 28, and 26 kDa. Two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE) of GSTs purified from GSH-agarose (C3) discovered nine similar spots to GSTs purified using GSTrapTMHP but with additional six distinct spots. Analysis by isoelectric focusing (IEF) illustrated most GSTs purified from both column resolved at pI in between 4.5 to 6.9. Apart from this cluster, there were also GSTs appearing each at pI 4.2 and 8.3. Purified GSTs from both columns exhibited activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB), sulfobromophthalein (BSP) and ethacrynic acid (EA). GSH-agarose (C3) showed less specific activity in all substrates compared to GSTrapTMHP, except for EA which count about 10- fold. However, GSTs eluted from both columns did not show any activity with p-nitrobenzylchloride (NBC), trans-4-phenyl-3-butene-2-one (PBO), and nitrocinnamaldehyde (NCA). However, mass spectrometry analysis did not show any match with the available database. Therefore based on the current data, GSTs obtained in this study were summarized belong to pi- and mu-class.
Abstract The ability of the fetus to detoxify transplacental drugs and chemicals can be a critical determinant of teratogenesis and developmental toxicity. Developmentally regulated expression of alpha class glutathione S -transferases (GSTs) is of particular interest, since these isozymes have high activity toward peroxidative byproducts of oxidative injury that are linked to teratogenesis. The present study was initiated to examine the expression and catalytic activities of alpha class GST isozymes in human prenatal liver. Northern analysis demonstrated the presence of hGSTA1 and/or A2 (hGSTA1/2) and hGSTA4 steady-state mRNAs in second trimester prenatal livers. Western blotting of prenatal liver proteins provided corroborating evidence via detection of an hGSTA1/2-reactive protein in both cytosol and mitochondria and of hGSTA4-4-reactive protein in mitochondria alone. Catalytic studies demonstrated that prenatal liver cytosolic GSTs were active toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (a general GST reference substrate), δ 5 -androstene-3,17-dione (relatively specific for hGSTA1-1), and 4-hydroxynonenal, a highly mutagenic α,β-unsaturated aldehyde produced during oxidative damage and a substrate for hGSTA4-4. Total GSH-peroxidase and GST-dependent peroxidase activities were 9- and 18-fold higher, respectively, in adult liver than in prenatal liver. Multiple tissue array analyses demonstrated considerable tissue-specific and developmental variation in GST mRNA expression. In summary, our results demonstrate the presence of two important alpha class GSTs in second trimester human prenatal tissues, and indicate that mitochondrial targeting of GST may represent an important pathway for removal of cytotoxic products in prenatal liver. Furthermore, the relatively inefficient prenatal reduction of hydroperoxides may underlie an increased susceptibility to maternally transferred pro-oxidant drugs and chemicals.
Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a disease state which frequently responds to alkylating agent chemotherapy but ultimately becomes refractory through acquired resistance mechanisms. In the present study, we have examined the expression of glutathione S-transferases (GST) in both CLL and normal control lymphocytes, as these enzymes have been implicated in mechanisms of natural and acquired resistance. Lymphocyte GST was purified from samples by high-pressure liquid affinity chromatography, and subunits were identified by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and immunoblotting by using polyclonal antibodies specific for individual subunits. Analysis of CLL lymphocyte GST activity using the general substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene showed a statistically significant 2-fold increase in cells from chlorambucil-resistant patients over those from untreated patients and normal individuals. Furthermore, chlorambucil therapy was seen to cause a 1.3- to 1.5-fold elevation of enzyme activity in three previously drug-naive patients. Analysis of GST isozyme subunits indicated that 95% of the CLL patients examined were positive for the pi isozyme, and this appeared quantitatively to be the major isozyme present. The alpha and mu isozymes were also expressed in 63 and 53% of the patients, respectively. Examination of control lymphocytes, as well as separated B- and T-cell subpopulations, yielded similar results. The present study indicates that a high degree of interindividual variation occurs and that the pattern of CLL lymphocyte GST expression differs from that of other tumor tissues. While there were no obvious correlations between the disease state or stage and isozymes expressed, the quantitative increase in GST activity in chlorambucil-resistant CLL patients may be of relevance to the overall resistant phenotype.
We have identified three genes, gst1(+), gst2(+), and gst3(+), encoding theta-class glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) in Schizosaccharomyces pombe. The gst1(+) and gst2(+) genes encode closely related proteins (79% identical). Our analysis suggests that Gst1, Gst2, and Gst3 all have GST activity with the substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and that Gst3 has glutathione peroxidase activity. Although Gst1 and Gst2 have no detectable peroxidase activity, all three gst genes are required for normal cellular resistance to peroxides. In contrast, each mutant is more resistant to diamide than wild-type cells. The gst1Delta, gst2Delta, and gst3Delta mutants are also more sensitive to fluconazole, suggesting that GSTs may be involved in anti-fungal drug detoxification. Both gst2(+) and gst3(+) mRNA levels increase in stationary phase, and all three gst genes are induced by hydrogen peroxide. Indeed, gst1(+), gst2(+), and gst3(+) are regulated by the stress-activated protein kinase Sty1. The Gst1 and Gst2 proteins are distributed throughout the cell and can form homodimers and Gst1-Gst2 heterodimers. In contrast, Gst3 is excluded from the nucleus and forms homodimers but not complexes with either Gst1 or Gst2. Collectively, our data suggest that GSTs have separate and overlapping roles in oxidative stress and drug responses in fission yeast.
Abstract The 9,10-mono-ozonide of methyl linoleate was shown to be a substrate for rat hepatic cytosolic, rat lung cytosolic and rat hepatic microsomal glutathione S-transferases (GST). The activities of lung cytosol and liver microsomes with methyl linoleate ozonide (MLO) were found to be high relative to the activity demonstrated by liver cytosol, as compared with their respective activities towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). Only a slight catalytic activity towards the ozonide was noticed for rat lung microsomes. Isoenzyme 2-2 exhibited the highest specific activity (208 nmol/min/mg) when isoenzymes 1-1, 1-2, 2-2, 3-3, 3-4, 4-4 and 7-7 were compared. This isoenzyme accounts for approx. 25% of cytosolic GST protein in rat lung, while in rat liver it represents approx. 9%. This may partly explain the high activity towards the ozonide noticed for rat lung cytosol. No stable conjugates were formed as products of the reaction of MLO with glutathione; although two glutathione-conjugates were noticed on TLC, they were only formed as intermediate compounds. Coupling of an aldehyde dehydrogenase assay or a glutathione reductase assay to the GST-catalyzed conjugation, demonstrated that oxidized glutathione and aldehydes are formed as the major products in the reaction. To further confirm the formation of aldehydes, the products of the GST-catalyzed reaction were incubated with 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine, which resulted in hydrazone formation. In conclusion, the activity of the GST towards the ozonide of methyl linoleate is similar to their peroxidase activity with lipid hydroperoxides as substrates.
This study describes a sensitive bio-electrochemical detection method for extensively used toxic organothiophosphate pesticides temephos and dimethoate, and organocarbamate fenobucarb, by employing a simple mediatorless cyclic voltammetric technique. The sensing scheme is based on the inhibition of the catalytic activity of glutathione-s-transferase using these pesticides during the course of the conjugation reaction between reduced glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, resulting in a reduction in the oxidation peak current of the activated glutathione oxidation. The types of inhibition of these three pesticides were studied. Fenobucarb showed competitive inhibition with a Ki value of 10.30 mM, temephos showed non-competitive inhibition with a Ki value of 54.82 mM and dimethoate exhibited a mixed type of inhibition. Calibration curves for all the three pesticides were obtained with detection limits down to 2, 4 and 5 ppb for fenobucarb, temephos, and dimethoate, respectively. The method was validated with a spiked tomato sample using the standard solid-phase extraction clean-up method. The method is a promising new tool for analysis of water-insoluble organophosphate and organocarbamate pesticides.
Our previous studies demonstrate that menadione (MEN) is cytotoxic to platelets of rats by depleting glutathione (GSH). In order to clarify whether GSH has a role in protecting against menadione-induced cytotoxicity, the effect of GSH depletors as well as GSH precusors on menadione-induced cytotoxicity was investigated. Cysteine and dithiothreitol (DTT) prevent MEN-induced cytotoxicity in a dose-dependent manner, as determined by LDH leakage and change in turbidity. When platelets were treated with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CNDB) and diethylmaleate (DEM), both of which deplete intracellular GSH, MEN-induced cytotoxicity was potentiated in the CDNB-treated platelets, but not in the DEM-treated platelets. These data suggest that the GSH in platelets plays an important role in protecting against cytotoxicity induced by menadione.
Glutathione (GSH), one of the most abundant low molecular-weight thiol compounds maintains redox homeostasis in plants under normal and stressful conditions. In order to measure GSH content in guard cells of Arabidopsis thaliana, we have developed a technique to quantify the GSH content in guard cells using GSH staining dye, monochlorobimane (MCB). The fluorescent intensity of glutathione S-bimane (GSB) gradually increased in guard cells with increasing incubation time and reached steady state 2 h after epidermal tissues were treated with MCB. The guard cells contained larger amount of GSH content than other cells of leaves except trichome cell. MCB staining showed that guard cells of ch1-1, a GSH deficient mutant, accumulated significantly lower GSH content than that of wild type guard cells. When the guard cells were treated with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) to reduce GSH content in the guard cells, the GSB fluorescence in the guard cells was abolished. In addition, GSH monoethyl ester (GSHmee) restored GSH level in the guard cells of ch1-1 mutant plants. These results suggest that GSH content in guard cells can be quantified using MCB dye.
Water containing high concentrations of magnesium ions (e.g. Dead Sea water) is effective in the treatment of inflammatory skin diseases. Therefore, we examined the influence of Mg2+ on inflammation in allergic contact dermatitis induced by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB) in BALB/c mice. Animals challenged with 0.125% DNCB in the presence of magnesium chloride (28% and 14%) demonstrated significantly less pronounced contact dermatitis (ear swelling) than did animals challenged with DNCB alone (p less than 0.001 and p less than 0.01). In mice challenged with DNCB in combination with sodium chloride (14%) there was no statistically significant difference in the degree of ear swelling. These results were borne out in 5 patients known to be allergic to nickel, in whom magnesium chloride but not sodium chloride, suppressed nickel sulphate-induced contact dermatitis.
ABSTRACT: Glutathione (GSH), one of the most abundant low molecular-weight thiol compounds, maintains redox homoeostasis in plants. To measure GSH content in guard cells of Arabidopsis thaliana, we have developed a technique to quantify the GSH content in guard cells using the staining dye monochlorobimane (MCB). The fluorescent intensity of glutathione S-bimane (GSB) gradually increased in guard cells with increasing incubation time and reached steady state 2 h after epidermal tissues were treated with MCB. The guard cells contained larger amount of GSH content than other cells of the leaves except trichome cell. MCB staining showed that guard cells of ch1-1, a GSH deficient mutant, accumulated significantly lower GSH content than that of wild type guard cells. When the guard cells were treated with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene to reduce GSH content in the guard cells, the GSB fluorescence in the guard cells was abolished. In addition, GSH monoethyl ester restored GSH level in the guard cells of ch1-1 mutant plants. These results suggest that GSH content in guard cells can be quantified using MCB dye.
Background. 3’-azido-3’-deoxythymidine (AZT) has been the nucleoside of choice in treating infections with human immumodeficiency virus (HIV), which is responsible for acquired immunodeficiency disease syndrome (AIDS). In ad dition, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (dinitrochlorobenzene or DNCB) has been used in trial experiments for treating HIV infection. In each case therapeutic benefits have been realized due to the inhibition of viral replication by AZT, and in crease in T lymphocytes (CD8 + cells) and decreased viral replication with DNCB. Combination therapy of AZT with other nucleoside and therapeutic agents results in added benefits for alleviating infection with HIV. These agents have been used in pregnant females for controlling transmission of the virus into the fetus with some beneficial results. However, longterm use of AZT is minimized due to its toxic effects on the hematopietic and immunologic systems. The toxic nature of DNCB has not been as well characterized. Our purpose was to evaluate the toxic effects of AZT and DNCB on dams and progeny when these agents are applied to mice at mid-pregnancy in order to provide realistic baselines for their use in therapy of HIV infection. Materials and Methods. Pregnant mice were allowed to drink water spiked with 0.2 mg AZT/ml (oral exposure) or drink spiked water alternating every 3 or 4 days with intravenous (iv) injection of 0.5 ml AZT solution at 0.2 mg/ml (oral-iv exposure). In other pregnant mice DNCB was applied to the shaved area behind the ears with 3 doses of DNCB in ethanol at 90 μg/ml, 22.5 μg/ml and 2.25 μg/ml. Results. In mice given AZT, there occurred a depression in reproductive parameters including decrease in litter size, depressed peripheral red blood cells and white blood cells, and a suppressed proliferation of progeny spleen cells in an allogeneic mixed lymphocyte response. For the progeny of dams exposed to DNCB there was a dose response reduction in body weight gain, while survival of the progeny and dams was unaffected. Conclusion. These results demonstrate that toxicity, as determined within the limits of this experiment, was more severe in the AZT-exposed mice. Additional works to more precisely delineate toxic events, particularly with DNCB, are necessary. Knowing the disposition toward toxicity, treatment regimens with these compounds in combination together or with other therapeutic agents will be more accurately defined. [Life Science Journal. 2008; 5(3): 41 – 49] (ISSN: 1097 – 8135).
Abstract The toxic action of the organophosphate pesticide fenitrothion via metabolism to fenitrooxon was investigated in isolated mixed-population cells from the hepatopancreas of the non-target organism Procambarus clarkii. Glutathione-S-transferase (GST; substrate: 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene), 7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase (EROD) andacetylcholin esterase (AChE) specific activities (per mg protein) in 10000 g supernatants were 50–60% lower (GST, AChE), or markedly higher (EROD) in cells compared to whole tissues. However, EROD cell activity was similar to values recorded for whole tissue microsomes. Incubation (12 h) of isolated cells with up to 5 μM fenitrothion resulted in a marked inhibition (84%) of AChE activity, but an increase (50%) in GST activity (p
We have examined the requirements for the export of leukotriene C4 (LTC4) from cultured human eosinophils. To define saturability and kinetics of LTC4 export, eosinophils were interacted with leukotriene A4 (LTA4) at 37 degrees C, and the methanolic extracts of the cell-associated and extracellular compartments were then analyzed for LTC4 content by reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography with on-line monitoring of absorbance at 280 nm. When LTA4 was added at concentrations from 0 to 100 microM for 10 min at 37 degrees C, the amount of LTC4 released extracellularly became constant at an LTA4 concentration of 7.5 microM or greater even though the amount of intracellular LTC4 continued to increase. When eosinophils were incubated with 50 microM LTA4 for 0-60 min at 37 degrees C and then held at 0 degrees C for the remainder of the 60-min interval, 54.2 and 77.3% (n = 3), respectively, of the total LTC4 was released extracellularly after 15 and 30 min of incubation at 37 degrees C. Eosinophils incubated with 50 microM LTA4 at 0 degrees C for 1 h synthesized 290 pmol of LTC4 (n = 3) which was approximately half-maximal, all of which was retained intracellularly. We utilized the time and temperature dependence of LTC4 export to preload eosinophils with both LTC4 and leukotriene C5 (LTC5) by sequentially supplying them with specific substrates. With increasing concentrations of intracellular LTC5, there was dose-dependent inhibition of the subsequent release of LTC4 at 37 degrees C, with the sum of the released glutathionyl leukotrienes remaining constant. In addition, only minimal competition for LTC4 release occurred when cells were preloaded with both LTC4 and the conjugate of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and reduced glutathione, S-(dinitrophenyl)glutathione. The criteria of saturability, time dependence of LTC4 release at 37 degrees C, competition of LTC4 with LTC5 for release, and the inhibition of LTC4 release at 0 degrees C establish the export of LTC4 from cells as a novel and specific biochemical step distinct from both LTA4 uptake and the conjugation of LTA4 with reduced glutathione by LTC4 synthase to form LTC4.
Characterisation of biotransformation and antioxidant enzyme activities and DNA integrity was carried out on isolated cells of the major biotransformation organ (digestive gland) of Mytilus edulis as a first step in developing a cell culture system for use in toxicology. Digestive gland cells were isolated by trypsin or non-protease tissue dissociation procedures, followed by filtration and differential centrifugation. Both dissociation methods produced a mixture of smaller cell types and large digestive cells at a viability of over 90% (EOSIN Y exclusion). The specific activities (per milligramme of protein) of 10 000×g supernatants from freshly isolated digestive gland mixed-cell populations produced by either dissociation method were similar to those from whole digestive gland for the antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutase (EC 1.15.1.1) and catalase (EC 1.11.1.6), but from 3- to 10-fold lower for the biotransformation enzyme activities benzo[a]pyrene hydroxylase, glutathione-S-transferase (EC 2.5.1.18; substrate: 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene) and NADPH-dependent DT-diaphorase (EC 1.6.99.2). Cells produced by trypsin dissociation showed significant increased DNA strand breakage as measured by the single cell electrophoretic ‘comet’ assay, viz.% comet tail DNA increased from 10.3±2.3 (control) to 19.8±4.1 (0.01% w/v trypsin) to 23.7±3.2 (0.1%) (mean±S.D.). Cell yields from digestive gland were only slightly lower for non-enzymic compared to trypsin dissociation for the same time period of dissociation, indicating the former as a preferred method of cell culture preparation.
A patient with unexplained erythrocyte glutathione-S-transferase (GST) deficiency has been detected among 513 unrelated persons with hemolytic anemia. An otherwise healthy adult male, the deficient individual had a mild hemolytic anemia with splenomegaly, indirect hyperbilirubinemia, and cholelithiasis. Because he was adopted and childless, the hereditary nature of the defect could not be established. The residual enzyme activity was only about 15% of mean normal. Depletion of glutathione (GSH) from the cells by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), a substrate for GST, was somewhat decreased in the red cells from the patient, suggesting that a functional defect existed. The kinetic properties of the residual enzyme and the ratio of activity to antigenicity were normal. Modest decreases in leukocyte and platelet GST activities were documented. Although a cause-and-effect relationship between the GST deficiency and hemolysis may exist, this cannot be proven in the absence of affected family members.
The rate constants have been measured for reaction of a series of 16 substituted thiophenoxides with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in 95%(v/v) ethanol–water at 25° using a stopped-flow spectrophotometric method. The values obtained which give a measure of the nucleophilic reactivities of the thiophenoxides correlate very well with the corresponding carbon basicities.
Abstract1. Xenobiotics are metabolized and eliminated through the coordinated interplay of their metabolizing enzymes and transporters. However, these two activities in vitro are measured separately, with the addition of ATP as a pre-requisite.2. We propose a human renal cell-line model which integrates the sulfate and glutathione conjugation of xenobiotics with the efflux of their respective conjugates. Sulfation and glutathionylation represent two major Phase II detoxification of xenobiotics in man. The reactions are catalyzed, respectively, by phenolsulfotransferase and glutathione-S-transferase followed by extrusion of their respective conjugates.3. Using Ko-143, a specific inhibitor of breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP), an ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter, we identified this transporter to be responsible for the efflux of p-cresol sulfate, harmol sulfate and the glutathione conjugate of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene.4. The conjugation-cum-efflux was inhibited by oligomycin and uncouplers, w...
The inhibition of the glutathione S-transferase π(GST) catalysed conjugation of glutathione (GSH) with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) by the haem octapeptide microperoxidase-8 (MP-8) has been investigated. Incubation of the enzyme with MP-8 results in a pseudo-first-order partial inactivation of the enzyme [kobs= 2.3 (±0.4)× 10–3 s–1; pH 6.5; 22.5 °C]. The kobs is identical to that found for dilutional inactivation of the enzyme observed in buffer alone. MP-8 increases only the extent of inactivation above that observed for dilutional inactivation.Incubation of the enzyme with varying concentrations of MP-8 was followed by a steady-state kinetic study of the enzyme-catalysed conjugation of GSH with CDNB at (a) fixed [GSH], varying [CDNB] and (b) fixed [CDNB] varying [GSH]. In case (a) the data conformed closely with mixed competitive/non-competitive inhibition kinetics (Ki= 3.2 × 10–7 mol dm–3, pH 6.5, 30 °C), while in case (b) the extent of inhibition was insufficient to allow analysis.These observations are rationalized and discussed in the light of the kinetic studies of MP-8 binding to GST π reported in the preceding paper.
Abstract Plant glutathione transferases (GSTs) play a key role in the metabolism of various xenobiotics. In this report, the catalytic mechanism of the tau class GSTU4-4 isoenzyme from Glycine max ( Gm GSTU4-4) was investigated by site-directed mutagenesis and steady-state kinetic analysis. The catalytic properties of the wild-type enzyme and three mutants of strictly conserved residues (Ser13Ala, Asn48Ala and Pro49Ala) were studied in 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) conjugation reaction. The results showed that the mutations significantly affect substrate binding and specificity. The effect of Ser13Ala mutation on the catalytic efficiency of the enzyme could be explained by assuming the direct involvement of Ser13 to the reaction chemistry and the correct positioning of GSH and CDNB in the ternary catalytic complex. Asn48 and Pro49 were found to have a direct role on the structural integrity of the GSH-binding site (G-site). Moreover, mutation of Asn48 and Pro49 residues may bring about secondary effects altering the thermal stability and the catalytic activity ( k cat ) of the enzyme without affecting the nature of the rate-limiting step of the catalytic reaction.
Abstract The amount of glutathione present in hepatic protein mixed disulfides was determined to be 20–30 nmole/g liver. This was established using two specific enzymatic methods: (a) the coupled assay with DTNB and glutathione (GSSG) reductase and (b) a newly developed test using GSH transferase and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene for the estimation of GSH released from proteins after borohydride treatment; further, these results were confirmed by HPLC analysis. Thus, authentic glutathione makes up only 2–6% of the value for total protein mixed disulfides. The latter were determined with the generally employed o -phthalaldehyde assay, which is not necessarily specific for GSH. The amount of glutathione mixed disulfides depends linearly on the content of glutathione disulfide in the liver cell in the range studied. By increasing the GSSG levels from 20 to about 60 nmole/g liver with paraquat, nitrofurantoin or t -butyl hydroperoxide, glutathione protein mixed disulfides are increased by a similar amount.
Oxidative stress is well known to lead to vascular dysfunction. Thioredoxin reductase (TrxR) catalyzes the reduction of oxidized thioredoxin (Trx). Reduced Trx plays a role in cellular antioxidative defense as well as in decreasing S-nitrosylation. It is not known whether TrxR affects vascular reactivity. We hypothesized that TrxR inhibition decreases vascular relaxation via increased oxidative stress and S-nitrosylation. Aortic rings from C57BL/6 mice were treated with the TrxR inhibitor, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB) or auranofin for 30 min. Vascular relaxation to acetylcholine (ACh) was measured in the rings contracted with phenylephrine. DNCB and auranofin reduced relaxation compared to vehicle (vehicle Emax = 71 ± 3 %, DNCB Emax = 53 ± 3 %; p<0.05). The antioxidants, apocynin (NADPH oxidase inhibitor) and tempol (superoxide dismutase mimetic) normalized impaired relaxation by DNCB in aorta (DNCB Emax = 53 ± 3 %, DNCB+tempol Emax = 66 ± 3 %; p<0.05). In addition, DNCB reduced sodium nitroprusside (SNP)-induced relaxation. DNCB increased soluble guanylyl cyclase (sGC) S-nitrosylation and decreased sGC activity. These data suggest that TrxR regulates vascular relaxation via antioxidant defense and sGC S-nitrosylation. TrxR may be an enzyme to approach for treatment of vascular dysfunction and arterial hypertension.
The rat cytosolic glutathione S-transferase Ya subunit contains three histidine residues (at positions 8, 143, and 159), two cysteine residues (at positions 18 and 112), and a single tryptophan residue (at position 21). Histidine, cysteine, and tryptophan have been proposed to be present either near or at the active site of other glutathione S-transferase subunits. The functional role of these amino acids at each of the positions was evaluated by site-directed mutagenesis in which valine or asparagine, alanine, and phenylalanine were substituted for histidine, cysteine, and tryptophan, respectively. Mutant enzymes H8V, H143V, H159N, C112A, and W21F retained either full or better catalytic efficiencies (k(cat)/Km) toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and glutathione. Lower but significant k(cat)/Km values were observed for H159V and C18A toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Some mutants displayed different thermal stabilities and intrinsic fluorescence intensities, but all retained the ability to bind heme. These results indicate that histidine, cysteine, and tryptophan in the glutathione S-transferase Ya subunit are not essential for catalysis nor are they involved in the binding of heme to the YaYa homodimer.
Three novel glutathione S-transferase (GSTs) cDNAs were cloned from a disk abalone (Haliotis dicus discus) cDNA library. Multiple alignment and phylogenetic analysis of three GSTs revealed that their closest relationship is with insect sigma GSTs. Recombinant GSTs were over-expressed in Escherichia coli as soluble fusion proteins. HdGSTS1 and HdGSTS2 were active towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and ethacrynic acid, whereas HdGSTS3 appeared to be a non-enzymatic GST. Two active GSTs had similar optimum conditions for enzymatic reaction at pH 8.0 and temperature of approximately 30 degrees C. Molecular modeling analysis of three GSTs implicates their diverse active sites as being responsible for their different enzymatic features. Three sigma GSTs had significantly different expression patterns and levels of expression in abalone tissues, indicating their different functions. After 48 h-exposure to three model marine pollutants, only HdGSTS1 exhibited a proper inducibility, exhibiting its good biomarker potential for organic contaminants in marine environment. In contrast, the other two sigma GSTs revealed a minor role in the response of pollutants exposure.
Ochratoxin A (OTA), a nephrotoxic mycotoxin, is absorbed from small intestine and, in plasma, binds to serum albumin. Prolonged half-live results from reabsorption by proximal tubules and enterohepatic circulation. The mechanism whereby OTA crosses intestine was investigated by means of a cell culture system consisting of Caco-2 cells, as in vitro model of human intestinal epithelium. Cytotoxicity assays on proliferating Caco-2 cells showed that 0.4 microM OTA inhibits MTT reduction by 50%. Transepithelial transport and intracellular accumulation of OTA were studied in Caco-2 cells, differentiated in bicameral inserts. At pH 7.4, OTA is transported preferentially in basolateral (BL) to apical (AP) direction, suggesting a net secretion. Conditions closer to in vivo situation in duodenum (AP pH 6.0, BL pH 7.4) increase intracellular accumulation and transepithelial transport. AP to BL transport becomes higher than BL to AP transport, suggesting OTA absorption. Addition of serum albumin in BL compartment further increases OTA absorption across Caco-2 cells and suggests that in vivo OTA transport from serosal to luminal side of enterocytes is prevented, due to its binding to plasma proteins. Competition experiments showed that carrier systems for large neutral amino acids, H(+)/dipeptides cotransporter, organic anion (p-aminohippurate) carrier and organic anion transporter (oatp) are not implicated in OTA transport across Caco-2 cells, in contrast to what was reported in kidney and liver. AP and BL transport and intracellular accumulation of OTA are increased in the presence of non specific inhibitors of MRPs (indomethacin, genistein and probenecid) and of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (biotransformed into 2,4-dinitrophenyl-gluthatione, a specific inhibitor of MRPs), but are affected by verapamil, an inhibitor of P-gp. This suggests that the multidrug resistance-associated protein (MRP2) could be implicated in transepithelial transport. Therefore, absorption of OTA across the intestinal mucosa would be limited thanks to its excretion through MRP2 at the apical pole of enterocytes.
Xenobiotics previously characterized as selective inducers of drug-metabolizing enzymes were chosen to probe possible relationships between enzyme induction and vitamin A metabolism. Liver, kidney and serum retinol and retinyl palmitate levels were investigated in male Sprague--Dawley rats receiving a single i.p. injection of the polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), 2,2',5,5'-tetrachlorobiphenyl, 3,3',4,4'-tetrachlorobiphenyl or 2,2',4,4',5,5'-hexachlorobiphenyl (300 mumol/kg) or 1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis-(4-chlorophenyl)-ethane (DDT) (150 mumol/kg). While 2,2',5,5'-tetrachlorobiphenyl, a weak or non-inducer, and 2,2',4,4',5,5'-hexaclorobiphenyl and DDT, phenobarbital-type inducers of cytochrome P-450, led to no reduction in total vitamin A content of liver or kidney during the 7 day time-course, administration of 3,3',4,4'-tetrachlorobiphenyl, a toxic PCB and a potent 3-methylcholanthrene-type inducer of cytochrome P-450, resulted in progressively lowered liver vitamin A levels (to 40% of control values by day 7). During this time, kidney total vitamin A content increased 3-fold. The increase in kidney vitamin A (due primarily to increased retinol content) was only equal to 1/40 of total vitamin A which had disappeared from the liver. Although 3,3',4,4'-tetrachlorobiphenyl specifically induced certain drug-metabolizing enzyme activities, e.g. aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase and UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (toward 4-nitrophenol), no highly significant correlations were found among the vitamin A levels and drug-metabolizing enzyme activities in the liver (aminopyrine N-demethylase, aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase, aldrin epoxidase, microsomal epoxide hydrolase, UDP-glucuronosyltransferase toward 4-nitrophenol, glutathione transferase toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and cytochrome P-450 content) as determined by multiple linear regression analysis.
Glutathione transferase (EC 2.5.1.18) from horse erythrocytes has been purified and some molecular and kinetic properties have been investigated. It appears to be a dimeric protein composed of subunits of about 23 kDa, indistinguishable either in sodium dodecyl sulfate or in urea electrophoresis. Amino acid composition, substrate specificities, sensitivity to inhibitors, CD spectra, and immunological studies provide evidence that the horse enzyme is related to the pi class transferases. This enzyme has only two reactive thiol groups/dimer whose integrity appears to be essential for the activity. A peculiar feature of these protein thiol groups is that they react nonidentically with a number of thiol blocking reagents, i.e. iodacetamide, bromopyruvate, N-ethylmaleimide, and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Also many disulfides react with one thiol group 5- to 10-fold more rapidly than with the other. The two mixed disulfides so formed also have different rates of reactivation by dithiothreitol. All the structural and kinetic data reported in this paper indicate a nonsymmetrical association of two identical subunits, or alternatively heterodimeric structure with subunits of very similar charge and size.
Abstract The glutathione S -transferases (α, μ, and π), a family of Phase II detoxication enzymes, play a critical role in protecting the colon mucosa by catalyzing the conjugation of dietary carcinogens with glutathione. We investigated the efficacy of using the glutathione S -transferase (GST) activity of blood lymphocytes and GST-μ expression as biomarkers of risk for colorectal cancer. GST activity was measured in the blood lymphocytes of control individuals ( n = 67) and in the blood lymphocytes ( n = 60) and colon tissue ( n = 34) of individuals at increased risk for colon cancer. Total GST activity was determined spectrophotometrically with the use of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as a substrate. The ability to express the µ subclass of GST was determined with the use of an ELISA. Although interindividual variability in the GST activity of blood lymphocytes was greater than 8-fold (range, 16.7–146.8 nmol/min/mg), the GST activity of blood lymphocytes and colon tissue within an individual was constant over time and was unrelated to sex, age, or race. The GST activity of blood lymphocytes from high-risk individuals was significantly lower than that of blood lymphocytes from control individuals ( P ≤ 0.004). No association was observed between the frequency of GST-µ phenotype and risk for colorectal cancer. Blood lymphocytes from high-risk individuals unable to express GST-µ had lower levels of GST activity than did those from control subjects with the GST-µ null phenotype; however, this difference was significant in male subjects only ( P ≤ 0.006). Analysis of paired samples of blood lymphocytes and colon tissue indicated a strong correlation between the GST activity of the two tissue types (Spearman9s rank correlation, r = 0.87; P ≤ 0.0001). The GST activity of blood lymphocytes may be used to identify high-risk individuals with decreased protection from this Phase II detoxication enzyme who may benefit from clinical trials evaluating GST modulators as chemopreventive agents for colorectal cancer. The GST activity of blood lymphocytes may also be used in colorectal cancer chemoprevention trials to monitor the responsiveness of colon tissue to regimens that modify Phase II detoxication enzymes.
In these experiments, we examined the ability of a retroviral vector, pHaMASV, to encode two potential chemoprotective genes on separate transcription units. We previously described the pHaMSV vector, which includes the human MDR1 gene as a selectable marker and chemoprotective gene, plus an internal SV40 promoter for expressing a second heterologous gene along with MDR1 [M. E. Metz, D. M. Best, and S. E. Kane. Virology, 208: 634–643, 1995]. To test the ability of this vector to deliver two therapeutic genes simultaneously, the cDNA for human glutathione S -transferase π (GST π, the most abundant member of the glutathione S -transferase family in human tumor cells) was inserted into pHaMASV, and this plasmid was transfected into ecotropic packaging cells. The resulting pHaMASV.GST π ecotropic retrovirus, which was produced at a titer of 2 × 106 colony-forming units/ml, was used to transduce NIH 3T3 cells. After initial selection in 60 ng/ml colchicine, a population of transduced cells was exposed to stepwise increasing colchicine concentrations to select for amplified expression of MDR1 . As MDR1 expression increased, the expression of GST π increased in concert, as demonstrated by Northern analysis, Western analysis, and measurements of glutathione S -transferase activity. Transduced cells growing in 1280 ng/ml colchicine had about 3-fold higher total glutathione S -transferase activity than nontransduced cells and 2.5-fold higher activity than transduced cells growing in 60 ng/ml colchicine. Northern hybridizations demonstrated a 3–5-fold increase in both the full-length retroviral message encoding MDR1 and the subgenomic mRNA encoding GST π after amplification of resistance from 60 to 1280 ng/ml colchicine. The cytotoxic effects of several xenobiotics were evaluated in NIH 3T3 cells transfected with MDR1 (3T3.MDR) or transduced with the MDR1 -GST π retrovirus (3T3.GST640 or 3T3.GST1280) to evaluate the ability of our vector to produce a spectrum of drug resistances specific for the genes expressed. 3T3.MDR and 3T3.GST1280 cells expressing equivalent levels of MDR1 had identical levels of resistance to doxorubicin or colchicine. These results suggest that GSTπ expression did not contribute to doxorubicin resistance in this model system. However, 3T3.GST640 cells were about 4-fold resistant to ethacrynic acid and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene compared to cells expressing MDR1 alone, consistent with the ability of GST π to conjugate both of these cytotoxins. Increases in drug resistance paralleled increases in gene-specific mRNA and recombinant protein levels in all cases. Thus, our studies suggest that the amplifiable coexpression of MDR1 plus a second potentially therapeutic gene of interest is a feasible strategy for the delivery of multiple drug resistance genes to normal cells for protection against the toxic side effects of combination chemotherapy.
The glutathione S-transferase (GST) activities of S-type and L-type thioltransferases (TTases), which are purified from the seeds and leaves of Arabidopsis thaliana, respectively, were identified and compared. The S-type and L-type TTases showed values of 9.72 mM and 3.18mM on 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), respectively, indicating the L-type TTase has higher affinity for CDNB. The GST activity of the L-type TTase was rapidly inactivated after being heated at or higher. The GST activity of the S-type TTase remains active in a range of . inhibited the GST activity of the S-type TTase, whereas and inhibited the GST activity of the L-type TTase. Our results suggest that the GST activities of two TTases of Arabidopsis thaliana may have different catalytic mechanisms. The importance of the co-existence of TTAse and GST activities in one protein remains to be elucidated.
Abstract 1. 1. Phase I and phase II biotransformation enzyme activities, viz . I: NADPH-cytochrome c (P-450) reductase, 7-ethoxyresorufin O- deethylase (EROD), 7-ethoxycoumarin O- deethylase (ECOD) and benzo(a)pyrene monooxygenase (BaPMO); and II: uridine diphosphate glucuronyl transferase (UDPGT) and glutathione S- transferase (GST), were characterized in hepatic cytosol (GST) and microsomes of European sea bass ( Dicentrarchus labrax ) with respect to kinetic parameters ( K M and V m ) and linearity with time and protein concentration. 2. 2. Mean apparent K m values in μM for the xenobiotic substrates were 0.046 (EROD), 29 (ECOD), 9.93 (BaPMO), 67 ( p- nitrophenol , UDPGT) and 33 (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, GST). 3. 3. Exposure to benzo(a)pyrene (i.p. 20 mg/kg, 14 hr optimal induction time) increased EROD, ECOD, BaPMO and UDPGT, but not GST, activities by, respectively, 3-, 2-, 2.5- and 3-fold. 4. 4. The results described in this paper show that European sea bass liver microsomes are able to hydroxylate the BaP (via BaPMO activity) and O- dealkylate 7-ethoxyresorufin as well as 7-ethoxycoumarin. Moreover, the presence of phase II enzymatic activities involved in the conversion of active intermediates to water-soluble compounds is shown. These different monooxygenase and phase II activities are induced by BaP and involved in compound metabolism in this species. 5. 5. The European sea bass, as an aquaculture species, offers potential for pollution biomonitoring, the numerous fish farms alongside coasts providing possible observation points.
The human glutathione transferases (GSTs) are a multigene family of detoxication enzymes with patterns of expression that are both tissue specific and genetically determined. Changes in the levels of one or more GST isoenzymes have been associated with the development of anticancer drug resistance in cultured cell lines. In this study, total GST activity and GST isoenzyme composition have been determined for 45 primary human breast carcinomas using a 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene substrate assay and Western blotting, respectively. The GST activity ranged from 5-208 mU/mg protein with a mean of 67 mU/mg protein (+/- 44 SD). GST-pi) isoenzyme protein was detectable on Western blots in 44 of 45 samples. Mu Class GST protein was detected in 18 of 38 samples and undetectable in 20 of the 38 samples tested. By polymerase chain reaction analysis of genomic DNA, the absence of mu class GST in breast tumors was determined to be due to the deletion of the gene for GST-mu in the DNA of those tumors. None of the 43 primary human breast cancer samples tested contained detectable alpha class GST protein. Neither the total GST activity of tumor samples, the quantity of GST-pi protein, nor the presence or absence of mu class GST correlated with other factors known to be of prognostic significance including tumor size, nodal status, estrogen receptor protein positivity, or progesterone receptor protein positivity. Substantial differences exist among primary breast carcinomas in both the amount of GST activity and GST isoenzyme composition. However, these are not tightly linked either to tumor stage or to hormone receptor status. Whether the levels of these enzymes are independent predictors of either risk of recurrence or response to anticancer therapy has yet to be tested directly.
Glutathione transferases (GSTs) constitute a class of detoxifying enzymes involved in Phase II metabolism. Using GSH-affinity chromatografy followed by HPLC analysis, two GST isoforms were isolated from the Anguilla anguilla liver cytosol. The major GST belongs to the piscine-specific rho class and accounted for about 59% of total GST affinity eluted fraction, while the remaining 41% was represented by a Pi class GST. Both isoforms were cloned, heterologously expressed in Escherichia coli and their enzyme activities were characterized with respect to a broad spectrum of well-known GST substrates. Our data indicate that only a fraction of prototypical GST substrates are conjugated by these enzymes and that Pi class GST has higher specific activity than rho class GST against 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), ethracrynic acid, 4-nitroquinoline-1-oxide and p-nitrophenyl acetate while trans-2-nonenal is detoxified more efficiently by rho class GST. Analysis of the kinetics parameters of the conjugation against CDNB indicated that the utilization ratio K(cat)/K(m) is slightly higher for rho class GST with respect to pi class GSTs. Finally, to determine the potential for environmental inhibition of the GST isoforms, we examined the effect of the widely used herbicide atrazine as an inhibitor of catalytic activity. The inhibition studies revealed that atrazine was an effective inhibitor of GST-CDNB catalytic activities of both isoforms at micromolar concentrations, suggesting the sensitivity of these isoforms to pesticide inhibition at environmentally relevant concentrations.
When administered with D-galactosamine, lipopolysaccharide endotoxins produce a good experimental animal model of hepatitis. This galactosamine plus endotoxin model has been used widely, but the acute effect of this fixed combination of two chemicals on hepatic and extrahepatic biotransformation has not been determined. Therefore, either 2 or 4 hr after a single intraperitoneal dose of 300 mg/kg galactosamine plus 30 micrograms/kg lipopolysaccharide was administered, serum, liver, kidney, intestine, and spleen were collected. Serum enzymes (alanine and aspartate aminotransferases, sorbitol dehydrogenase, and gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase) were elevated dramatically 2 and 4 hr after treatment. Cytochrome P450 monooxygenase activity toward benzo-[a]pyrene was increased in kidney 4 hr after treatment, whereas dealkylation of 7-methoxycoumarin or 7-ethoxyresorufin was unchanged in any tissue at either time point. An increase in UDP-glucuronosyltransferase activity toward 4-methylumbelliferone and 4-hydroxybiphenyl was noted in the intestine. Conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene with glutathione was increased in intestine and spleen 2 hr after treatment. gamma-Glutamyltranspeptidase activity was unaltered in all tissues studied. Reduced glutathione concentrations were increased significantly by different amounts depending on which organs were studied 2 or 4 hr after treatment. These results indicate that galactosamine/lipopolysaccharide-induced liver injury is not accompanied by major effects on the examined biotransformation reactions.
To exclude the possibility that changes in hepatotoxicity and biotransformation were induced by diabetogen administration, the influence of long-lasting experimental insulin-dependent diabetes on the activities of benzphetamine demethylase, styrene oxide hydrolase, and UDP-glucuronosyl-transferases toward 1-naphthol, diethylstilbestrol, estrone and testosterone, and glutathione S-transferases toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, ethacrynic acid, and sulfobromophthalein was studied. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats injected with 45 mg streptozotocin/kg rapidly developed the classical symptoms of diabetes which persisted throughout the 90-day test period. Ketonemia was detectable at 6 but not at either 35 or 90 days after streptozotocin administration. After acute challenge with bromobenzene or carbon tetrachloride (CCl4), aspartate and alanine aminotransferase activities in rats diabetic for 35 and 90 days were markedly higher than those in normal rats, suggesting that diabetes potentiated the hepatotoxicity of these chemicals. Administration of 25 microliters CCl4/kg, ip, to diabetic rats decreased enzyme activities toward benzphetamine, sulfobromophthalein, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, and 1-naphthol. In normal rats, a dose of 400 microliters CCl4/kg, ip, was required to cause similar changes in enzyme activities. Bromobenzene (500 microliters/kg, ip) elicited opposing responses in diabetic and normal rats in N-demethylase activity, in UDP-glucuronosyltransferase activity toward 1-naphthol, estrone, and testosterone, and in glutathione S-transferase activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Total cytochrome P450 concentrations were reduced by both induction of diabetes and hepatotoxicant challenge. Thus, chronic uncontrolled diabetes alters the response of hepatic xenobiotic biotransformation enzymes in a non-uniform, substrate-dependent manner, independent of initial diabetogen effects. The role of cytochrome P450j in potentiating CCl4 toxicity is discussed.
Early detection of the sensitizing potential of chemicals is an emerging issue for chemical, pharmaceutical and cosmetic industries. In our institute, an in vitro classification model for prediction of chemical-induced skin sensitization based on gene expression signatures in human CD34+ progenitor-derived dendritic cells (DC) has been developed. This primary cell model is able to closely mimic the induction phase of sensitization by Langerhans cells in the skin, but it has drawbacks, such as the availability of cord blood. The aim of this study was to investigate whether human in vitro cultured THP-1 monocytes or macrophages display a similar expression profile for 13 predictive gene markers previously identified in DC and whether they also possess a discriminating capacity towards skin sensitizers and non-sensitizers based on these marker genes. To this end, the cell models were exposed to 5 skin sensitizers (ammonium hexachloroplatinate IV, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, eugenol, para-phenylenediamine, and tetramethylthiuram disulfide) and 5 non-sensitizers (l-glutamic acid, methyl salicylate, sodium dodecyl sulfate, tributyltin chloride, and zinc sulfate) for 6, 10, and 24 h, and mRNA expression of the 13 genes was analyzed using real-time RT-PCR. The transcriptional response of 7 out of 13 genes in THP-1 monocytes was significantly correlated with DC, whereas only 2 out of 13 genes in THP-1 macrophages. After a cross-validation of a discriminant analysis of the gene expression profiles in the THP-1 monocytes, this cell model demonstrated to also have a capacity to distinguish skin sensitizers from non-sensitizers. However, the DC model was superior to the monocyte model for discrimination of (non-)sensitizing chemicals.
Glutathione transferases from rat kidney cytosol were purified about 40-fold by chromatography on S-hexylglutathione linked to epoxy-activated Sepharose 6B. Further purification by fast protein liquid chromatography with chromatofocusing in the pH interval 10.6-7.6 resolved five major peaks of activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as the second substrate. Four of the peaks were identified with rat liver transferases 1-1, 1-2, 2-2 and 4-4 respectively. The criteria used for identification included physical properties, reactions with specific antibodies, substrate specificities and sensitivities to several inhibitors. The fourth major peak is a 'new' form of transferase, which has not been found in rat liver. This isoenzyme, glutathione transferase 7-7, has a lower apparent subunit Mr than any of the transferases isolated from rat liver cytosol, and does not react with antibodies raised against the liver enzymes. Glutathione transferases 3-3 and 3-4, which are abundant in liver, were only present in very small amounts. In a separate chromatofocusing separation in a lower pH interval, an additional peak was eluted at pH 6.3. This isoenzyme is characterized by its high activity with ethacrynic acid.
Erythrocyte glutathione (GSH) can be rapidly depleted by incubating the cells with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), which forms 2,4- dinitrophenyl-S-glutathione with GSH through the reaction catalyzed by glutathione S-transferase. GSH-CDNB conjugate thus formed stays undegraded within the erythrocytes. This indicates that in the erythrocytes, mercapturic acid pathway is inoperative. Depletion of GSH in the intact erythrocytes by CDNB results in rapid oxidation of large amounts of hemoglobin to methemoglobin. When glutathione S-transferase- free hemolysate of erythrocytes is incubated with CDNB, the depletion of GSH as well as methemoglobin formation are minimal. Glutathione peroxidase and glutathione reductase activities of the erythrocytes are not affected by CDNB. These studies provide a specific enzymatic method for rapid removal of erythrocyte GSH and also indicate that GSH is vital in maintaining a reduced environment within the erythrocytes.
Abstract ::: We have examined the role of the glutathione redox cycle as an antioxidant defense mechanism in cultured bovine and human endothelial cells by disrupting the glutathione redox cycle at several points. Endothelial glutathione reductase was selectively inhibited with 1,3-bis(chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU). Cellular stores of reduced glutathione were depleted by reaction with diethylmaleate (DEM) or 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) or by inhibition of glutathione synthesis with buthionine sulfoximine (BSO). Whereas several strains of untreated bovine and human endothelial cells were resistant to lysis by enzymatically generated hydrogen peroxide, BCNU-treated cells were readily lysed in a time- and dose-dependent manner. Glucose-glucose oxidase-mediated lysis of BCNU-treated bovine endothelial cells was catalase-inhibitable and directly related to BCNU concentration and endogenous glutathione reductase activity. Pretreatment of bovine endothelial cells with BCNU did not potentiate lysis by distilled water, calcium ionophore, lipopolysaccharide, or hypochlorous acid. Depletion of cellular reduced glutathione by reaction with DEM or CDNB or by inhibition of glutathione synthesis by BSO also potentiated endothelial lysis by enzymatically generated hydrogen peroxide. Inhibition of endothelial glutathione reductase by BCNU or depletion of reduced glutathione by BSO increased endothelial susceptibility to lysis by hydrogen peroxide generated by phorbol myristate acetate-activated neutrophils. We conclude that the glutathione redox cycle plays an important role as an endogenous antioxidant defense mechanism in cultured endothelial cells.
1 Immortalised rat hepatocyte cell lines are more sensitive to the cytotoxicity of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and ethacrynic acid than primary cultures of hepatocytes. 2 Class alpha glutathione S-transferases are not expressed in immortalised hepatocyte cell lines. Class pi glutathione S-transferase expression is elevated in the immortalised cell lines compared with freshly isolated hepatocytes, but it is not as high as in the HTC rat hepatoma cell line. 3 Immortalised hepatocyte cell lines may provide a sensitive model system for detecting cytotoxicity associated with xenobiotics which are detoxified by glutathione S-transferases.
In 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) manufacture, the washing process discharges a large amount of CDNB-rich acidic effluent: a very aggressive and toxic wastewater. The concentration of CDNB reaches up to 332.2mg/L. CDNB has been known as an intracellular glutathione-depleting agent and shown to have an adverse effect on erythrocyte membrane integrity and caused aemolysis of human red blood cell. 1 Its removal from wastewater is necessary for health and environmental reason.Two main techniques have been used for the decontamination of CDNB-containing wastewater:activate-carbon adsorption and biodegradation. Biodegradation method works well in summer.However in winter, the activity of animalcules decreases dramatically with the dropping of temperature. Adsorption of CDNB on fresh active-carbon is quick and efficient. However once saturated, active-carbon loses adsorption capacity sharply. The revival of active-carbon by flash steam blowing or sweeping proves to be sluggish and inefficient. Therefore frequent change and replenish of active-carbon is necessary which results in significant operating cost.In this study, we disclose an easy-operating and sustainable method for the treatment of CDNB-contaminated wastewater, which not only removes the toxic CDNB from wastewater and readily revives the active-carbon, but also produces another useful chemical 2,4-dinitrophenol(DNP). Our method is based upon the physical adsorption of CDNB on active-carbon and the chemical conversion of CDNB to SDNP and then to DNP. As a well known nucleophilic substitution example, chlorobenzene with one/two/three NO2, a very strong electron-withdrawing group, at its ortho- and/or para- positions can be readily hydrolysed to give the corresponding phenols under basic condition (Scheme 1).First, the CDNB-contaminated wastewater was treated with active-carbon at room temperature.CDNB was thus adsorbed on to active-carbon physically. The CDNB-loaded active-carbon was filtered off. The acidic filtrate was neutralised by aqueous Ca(OH)2 to gi
A major species of glutathione S-transferase (GST), Pugf, was highly purified from pumpkin flowers. Two-dimensional electrophoresis of the purified enzyme gave two adjacent protein spots. The specific activity of the purified enzyme was 2.4 μmol min−1 mg−1 protein for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. This value is one to two orders of magnitude lower than that of pumpkin tau-type GSTs.The expression pattern of Pugf in healthy pumpkin plants and responses to various stresses were examined by western blotting. Pugf was found in high concentrations in petioles, stems, and roots as well as flowers, and was more abundant in expanding young organs than in fully expanded mature organs. Dehydration caused a slight increase in its concentration, but high and low temperatures, salty stress, and 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid seemed to have no effects.A cDNA encoding Pugf was cloned and sequenced. Sequence comparison with other plant GSTs suggested that it should be classified as a phi-type GST.
The effect of chosen compounds on the total glutathione (GSH) level in stationary cultures of S. cerevisiae was compared. 1-Chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 1-fluoro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, maleimide, iodacetamide and allyl alcohol (1 mM), and menadione (0.5 mM) caused an almost complete GSH depletion during several minutes. Bromobenzoic acid and chloramine T (I mM), and daunomycin (60 mu M) induced a slower GSH decrease, down to 30-70% after 60 min. Paraquat (1 mM), CuSO(4) (0.5 mM) and cadmium acetate (1 mM) decreased glutathione level down to ca 70%. Diamide (0.5 mM), phenazine methosulphate, phenylhydrazine, acetylphenylhydrazine and H(2)O(2) (1 mM), and t-butyl hydroperoxide (2 mM) did not affect total GSH during 60-min exposure. There was no clear-cut dependence between the ability of various chemicals to deplete cellular GSH and their increased toxicity to a glutathione-poor mutant.
Isoenzymes of glutathione transferase (GST) were partially purified from the earthworm species Eisenia andrei and E. veneta using affinity chromatography followed by ion exchange chromatography and reversed-phase HPLC. In E. veneta, five activity peaks, named EvGST Ia, Ib, II, III and IV, were separated by anion exchange chromatography. The GSTs in E. andrei were resolved by cation exchange chromatography into six groups, named EaGST I-VI. Using reversed-phase HPLC, the affinity-purified GSTs from E. andrei and E. veneta were resolved into 14 subunits, named Ea1-Ea14 and Ev1-Ev14, respectively. EaGST I, II, IV and EvGST Ia were further characterized. These forms displayed different substrate specificity towards the substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, ethacrynic acid (ETHA) and cumene hydroperoxide, as well as different subunit composition determined by SDS-PAGE and reversed-phase HPLC. EaGST IV and EvGST Ia showed exceptionally high ETHA activity compared with the other forms. EaGST IV consisted of a homodimeric protein involving subunit Ea6 with an apparent molecular weight of 26.5 kDa, whereas EvGST Ia is composed of two different subunits (Ev9 and Ev10). Amino acid composition and N-terminal analysis of the first 33 residues of Ea6 indicated that the enzyme is most related to the pi class. Subunit Ev10 had 67% identity with Ea6, over the region sequenced (12 residues), but up to 90% identity with GSTs from several nematodes. Exposure of both species to trans-stilbene oxide, 3-methylcholanthrene and phenobarbital for three weeks did not elevate the activity of GST measured with CDNB and ETHA.
To determine which individual parameters contribute to the increased bilirubin clearance which follows phenobarbital administration in the rat, dose response studies are being conducted relating changes in various aspects of bilirubin transport to the dose of phenobarbital administered. The relationships between phenobarbital dose, immunoreactive ligandin concentrations, and cytosolic glutathione-S-transferase (GSHT) enzymatic activities were determined in the 100,000g liver cytosol obtained from non-fasted male Sprague-Dawley rats, treated for 6 days (ip) with either phenobarbital at various doses ranging from 1 to 125 mg/kg/day or distilled water. Ligandin levels were measured by radioimmunoassay employing an antiserum which reacts with both GSHT-1 (Ya) and -2 (Yc) subunits. Ligandin concentration increased in a dose-dependent fashion, achieving a maximal observed value of 278% of control at the highest administered phenobarbital dose. Values were significantly elevated compared to controls at doses as low as 3 mg/kg/day. GSH-dependent delta 5-3-ketosteroid isomerase (KSI) activity, which reflects predominantly GSH transferase subunit 1, and GSHT activity against 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) also increased over the entire range of phenobarbital doses administered. Both of these enzymatic activities were highly correlated with immunoreactive ligandin levels (KSI: r = 0.89, p less than 0.005; GSHT (CDNB): r = 0.92, p less than 0.001). By contrast, GSHT activity against 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB), which resides principally on GSHT subunits not present in ligandin, did not correlate significantly with measured ligandin concentrations. These studies indicate that phenobarbital is capable of inducing immunoreactive ligandin concentrations and related enzymatic activities at doses as small as 5% of those commonly employed to demonstrate this effect.
A total of 168 autopsy liver extracts from Japanese individuals were examined for the glutathione S-transferase (GST) isozymes by means of starch gel electrophoresis. The gene frequencies of GST1*1, GST1*2, and GST1*0 in Japanese were 0.252, 0.057, and 0.691, respectively. GST1*3 was detected as a rare variant allele. The incidence of GST1 0 in 41 liver biopsy samples from patients suffering from various liver diseases was investigated using polyacrylamide gel isoelectric focusing. The GST1 0 phenotype was found more frequently in livers with hepatitis and carcinoma than in control livers. The isozymes coded by different GST loci were partially purified and characterized to study their biochemical properties. The apparent Km values with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrate for the isozymes at the GST1, GST2, GST3, and GST4 loci were 604, 1345, 776, and 591 microM, respectively.
Abstract Glutathione S -transferases (GSTs) are a class of proteins that have intracellular binding and sequestration, as well as catalytic, capabilities. This study investigated the role of GSTs in the intracellular mobilization of pentachlorophenol (PCP). A single mouse GST isoform, GST μ , specifically and competitively bound PCP with a k i = 7 μ M with respect to the substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), yet did not metabolize PCP. Instead, the binding of GST μ to PCP resulted in the partitioning of PCP from lipid to aqueous compartments. The physiological significance of the mobilization was then investigated using two mouse hepatocyte cell lines that differ significantly in their expression of GST μ . These cells were treated with butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA) to induce GST μ and provided several levels of GST μ expression. The toxicity of PCP to these cells based on trypan blue dye exclusion was assessed, which demonstrated a significant correlation between GST μ levels within the cell and PCP toxicity. The BHA-treated, high GST μ expressor cells were approximately 40% more sensitive to PCP toxicity than were the untreated low GST μ expressors, suggesting that GST μ was acting to make PCP more bioavailable to elicit toxicity. Furthermore, the increase in toxicity was not due to a difference in PCP accumulation or in GST metabolism by the cells. These results suggest that GST μ may increase the cellular toxicity of PCP by mobilizing this lipophilic compound within the cell.
Cell lysates of mouse peritoneal macrophages, in the presence of reduced glutathione, converted leukotriene LTA4 to LTC4, and neither LTD4 nor LTE4 was detected. Therefore, like cultured rat basophilic leukemia cells (RBL cells), the peritoneal macrophage contains LTC4 synthetase and appears to contain little, if any, gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase. When LTA4 was added to subcellular fractions of mouse macrophage lysate, the highest specific activity of LTC4 synthetase (nmol LTC4/mg protein per 10 min) was associated with the particulate or membrane fractions (i.e., 10(4) and 10(5) X g pellets). The 10(5) X g supernatant contains approx. 1% of the specific activity and 6% of the total LTC4 synthetase activity compared with that of the 10(5) X g pellet. Conversely, the 10(5) X g supernatant had four-times more specific activity and 19-times more total GSH S-transferase activity than did the 10(5) X g pellet when evaluated using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB) as the substrate. LTA4 was converted to LTC4 by the membrane enzyme LTC4 synthetase in a dose-dependent manner at low LTA4 concentrations (3-50 microM) and reached a plateau of approx. 30 microM LTA4 using the macrophage 10(5) X g pellet as an enzyme source. The apparent Km value of LTC4 synthetase for LTA4 was estimated to be 5 microM based on Lineweaver-Burk plots. Enzyme in the 10(5) X g supernatant produced negligible quantities of LTC4 (1% or less of the particulate fractions) over a wide range of LTA4 concentrations. However, an enzyme in the 10(5) X g supernatant fraction presumed to be GSH S-transferase effectively catalyzes the conjugation of glutathione (GSH) with the aromatic compound DNCB. The apparent Km value of GSH S-transferase for DNCB was estimated to be 1.0-1.5 mM. On the other hand, enzyme from the membrane fraction (i.e., 10(5) X g pellet) catalyzed this reaction at a negligible rate over a wide range of DNCB concentrations. The apparent Km value of LTC4 synthetase for GSH was estimated to be 0.36 mM and the corresponding Km value estimated for the glutathione S-transferase was 0.25-0.76 mM. These values indicate similar kinetics for GSH utilization by both enzymes. These Km values are also significantly lower than the intracellular GSH levels of 2 to 5 mM. Therefore, it is suggested that the substrate limiting LTC4 synthetase activity is LTA4 and not GSH. Our results indicate that LTC4 synthetase from mouse peritoneal macrophages is a particulate or membrane-bound enzyme, as was reported by Bach et al.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The structural gene for glutathione transferase (XlGSTS1-1) in the amphibia Xenopus laevis has been cloned from an embryo library and its nucleotide sequence has been determined. Open reading frame analysis indicated that xlgsts1 gene encodes the smallest protein of sigma class GST so far identified as being composed of only 194 amino acid residues. The recombinant XlGSTS1-1 shows a narrow range of substrate specificity as well as a significantly lower 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene conjugation capacity than that of squid sigma class GST. To compare the structural and functional differences between the squid and amphibian enzymes, several site-specific mutations were introduced in XlGSTS1-1, i.e., Ser100Asn, Phe102Tyr, Trp143Leu, Phe146Leu, and Trp148Cys. The results obtained indicate that Trp143 and Trp148 are more important determinants for the structural stability of XlGSTS1-1 rather than for its substrate specificity.
Glutathione peroxidase was purified from the total membrane fractions of a yeast, Hansenula mrakii IFO 0895. The purified enzyme gave a single protein band with a molecular mass of 28 kDa on SDS-PAGE. The enzyme showed activity to various lipid hydroperoxides and their methyl esters. The enzyme was also active toward phosphatidylcholine hydroperoxide and cholesterol hydroperoxide. Since the enzyme was not active on hydrogen peroxide, the enzyme was thought to be a kind of glutathione S-transferase, although the purified enzyme did not show the glutathione-conjugating activity with electrophilic compounds such as 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and o-dinitrobenzene, which are used as the substrate of glutathione S-transferase in yeast. The glutathione peroxidase in H. mrakii was then suggested to be a novel type of glutathione peroxidase in substrate specificity and intracellular localization, being different from those of other sources purified so far.
Phosphodiesterase-4 (PDE-4) inhibitors have a wide range of anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory activities. Here we examined the effects of roflumilast, a well-known PDE-4 inhibitor, on 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB)-induced atopic dermatitis-like lesions. Roflumilast inhibited DNCB-stimulated IL-1 α secretion in HaCaT cells, and reduced ear thickness and lymph node weights in BALB/c mice sensitized with DNCB. Topical application of roflumilast to DNCB-induced atopic dermatitis-like skin lesions of NC/Nga mice ameliorated intensity scores and dorsal skin thickness, in parallel with reduced tissue IL-1 β levels and epidermal hyperplasia. On the other hand, no effect on IgE and IL-4 was observed upon roflumilast treatment. Taken together, roflumilast showed beneficial effects against DNCB-induced atopic dermatitis.
The acidic glutathione S-transferases from a CSMA (susceptible) strain and a Cornell-R (resistant) strain of houseflies were purified and separated utilizing affinity chromatography followed by chromatofocusing. Nine fractions were isolated from each house fly strain. Fraction 1 had the highest 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene vs. 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene ratio (CDNB/DCNB ratio) in both strains and the ratio of all the other fractions tended to decrease as the isoelectrical points decreased except for fractions 4 and 9. Most fractions from the CSMA strain had higher CDNB conjugation activities than the fractions from the Cornell-R strain, but all the fractions from the CSMA strain had lower DCNB conjugation activities than fractions from the Cornell-R strain. Steady-state kinetics of all the fractions were examined. The Km values obtained from both strains ranged from 0.36 to 1.12 mM, while the Vmax value ranged from 3.0 to 32.6 mumol/min/mg. In the 100,000 g supernatant, the CDNB specific activities in the CSMA strain was about 1/3 of the activity in the Cornell-R strain but it was about 1.5-fold following affinity chromatography. The specific activity for DCNB measured in the CSMA strain was only 1/5 of the activities of the Cornell-R strain in the 100,000 g supernatant, but was about the same after affinity chromatography. The difference was due to the selectivity of the affinity column used in the current study.
Mouse glioma-26 (G-26) cell line established in this laboratory was used in the study. The in vitro effect of ascorbyl esters, viz., ascorbyl-palmitate (As-P), -stearate (As-S) and mouse interferon-alpha/beta (MulFN-alpha/beta) on the glioma cell viability, proliferation and glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity was investigated. Cell viability and proliferation were examined by colorimetric MTT assay and [3H]-thymidine incorporation, respectively. Incubation (24h) of G-26 cells with As-S, As-P or MulFN-alpha/beta, resulted in a dose dependent decrease in cell viability (IC50 = 125 microM As-S; 175 microM As-P and 3.6 x 10(4) U/ml MulFN-alpha/beta) and proliferation (IC50 = 157 microM As-S; 185 microM As-P and 3.6 x 10(4) U/ml MulFN-alpha/beta). A combined exposure to 175 microM As-S and 800 U/ml of MulFN-alpha/beta resulted in a greater than an additive effect on cell viability and proliferation. The inhibition of cell proliferation/viability by interferon was species specific and was observed only with homologous MulFN-alpha/beta, but not with human interferon-alpha lymphoblastoid or human interferon-beta. Ascorbyl esters inhibited cytosolic GST activity (1-50 = 15.0 microM As-S and 28.5 microM As-P) towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in a dose dependent manner. The apparent Ki values for affinity purified GST, deduced from Dixon plots were 0.95 microM and 2.0 microM for As-S and As-P, respectively. Significant inhibition of GST was also observed in the cytosol isolated from G-26 cells exposed to 300 microM As-S or 800 U/ml MulFN-alpha/beta.
On bases of previous observations on the band 3 anion exchange inhibition by the electrophilic reagent 1-fluoro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in resealed ghosts and a previously proposed band 3-based mechanism of control of the erythrocyte shape, it is suggested that stomatocytoses by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and other electrophilic reagents are due to an inhibition of the band 3 anion exchange by a covalent modification of Lys 539, one of the two lysine intramolecularly cross-linked by impermeant 4,4'-diisothiocyanodihydrostilbene-2,2'- disulfonic acid, a band 3 anion exchange potent inhibitor. Attempts to explain these stomatocytoses led to explain the echinocytosis and competitive inhibition of band 3 anion exchange by stilbenedisulfonic acid derivatives and the reversal of the echinocytosis by 2,4- dinitrophenol by one stomatocytogenic of the electrophilic reagents. The inference on stomatocytoses by electrophilic reagents is of interest since stomatocytogenic and echinocytogenic by amphiphiles are perceived to interact non- covalently with the membrane and that they can be clinically relevant.
The mitochondrial environment is rich in reactive oxygen species (ROS) that may ultimately peroxidize membrane proteins and generate unsaturated aldehydes such as 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (4HNE). We had previously demonstrated the presence of hGSTA4-4, an efficient catalyst of 4HNE detoxification, in human liver mitochondria to the exclusion of the cytosol. In the present study, GSH-affinity chromatography was used in conjunction with biochemical and proteomic analysis to determine the presence of additional cytosolic glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) in human hepatic mitochondria. HPLC-subunit analysis of GSH affinity-purified liver mitochondrial proteins indicated the presence of several potential mitochondrial GST isoforms. Electrospray ionization-mass spectrometry analysis of eluted mitochondrial GST subunits yielded molecular masses similar to those of hGSTP1, hGSTA1 and hGSTA2. Octagonal matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time of flight mass spectrometry and proteomics analysis using MS-FIT confirmed the presence of these three GST subunits in mitochondria, and HPLC analysis indicated that the relative contents of the mitochondrial GST subunits were hGSTA1>hGSTA2>hGSTP1. The mitochondrial localization of the alpha and pi class GST subunits was consistent with immunoblotting analysis of purified mitochondrial GST. Enzymatic studies using GSH-purified mitochondrial GST fractions demonstrated the presence of significant GST activity using the nonspecific GST substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), as well as 4HNE, delta(5)-androstene-3,17-dione (ADI), and cumene hydroperoxide (CuOOH). Interestingly, the specific mitochondrial GST activities toward 4HNE, a highly toxic alpha,beta-unsaturated aldehyde produced during the breakdown of membrane lipids, exceeded that observed in liver cytosol. These observations are suggestive of a role of GST in protecting against mitochondrial injury during the secondary phase of oxidative stress, or modulation of 4HNE-mediated mitochondrial signaling pathways. However, other properties of mitochondrial GST, such as conjugation of environmental chemicals and binding of lipophilic non-substrate xenobiotics and endogenous compounds, remain to be investigated.
Soluble rat liver glutathione S-transferases have been purified and a previously undescribed peak was observed. This peak contained glutathione S-transferase activity which was extensively inhibited by indomethacin. Glutathione conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene by this isozyme, designated glutathione S-transferase VII, was inhibited 44 and 68% at indomethacin concentrations of 0.20 and 1.00 microM, respectively. The other six basic glutathione S-transferase isozymes were relatively unaffected by low concentrations of indomethacin. The pharmacological significance of this inhibition by indomethacin is largely dependent on the role of the glutathione S-transferase VII in leukotriene synthesis.
A novel glutathione S-transferase (GST) was purified from broccoli (Brassica oleracea var. italica). Partial amino-acid sequencing indicated that the protein shared significant homology with several different plant GSTs from maize, silene, Dianthus, Nicotiana and Triticum, but little homology to yeast (Issatchenkia) [6] GST. One region of the polypeptide near the N-terminal also shared significant homology to a region of rat 5-5, rat 12-12 and human 0-GST (collectively referred to as the 0-GST-class) [7,8] but little structural homology to the common mammalian cytosolic GSTs (a-,/z- or ~--classes) [9]. The broccoli GST was retained on a novel membrane based glutathione affinity matrix and displayed activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), a general GST substrate, as well as 4-nitrophenethyl bromide, a marker substrate for the 0-class of GSTs. The characteristics of the broccoli GST potentially define it as a member of the 0-class. This is consistent with the view that the 0-class may have arisen prior to the divergence of animals and plants while the mammalian/x-, rr- and a-classes evolved after the two kingdoms were established.
Abstract Elimination of the products of xenobiotic metabolism is an important step in cellular detoxification and involves a specific transport system or “export pump”. ATP-dependent transport of glutathione S -conjugates has previously been demonstrated in a variety of tissues, mainly from rat. However, the characteristics of this pump have not been fully explored in human cells. This study investigated transport of a glutathione S -conjugate, 2,4-dinitrophenyl glutathione (GS-DNP), by a variety of cultured human cell lines. GS-DNP was generated intracellularly after treatment of cells with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and subsequent transport of the conjugate into the extracellular medium was measured spectrophotometrically at 340 nm. Calculation of the initial transport rates at 37°C revealed considerable variation in GS-DNP secretion between cell lines which was statistically significant in some cases. A 2-fold increase in GS-DNP efflux was observed between Jurkat and HL-60 cells (11.360 ± 3.893 vs. 5.662 ± 2.263 nmol/10 6 cells/h, P 6 cells/h) whereas the 5637 cell line had the lowest level with a transport rate of 1.475 ± 0.631 nmol/10 6 cells/h. For each cell line, transport of GS-DNP was almost totally inhibited or markedly reduced on ice. Pre-incubation of cells at 42°C also lowered the initial transport rates compared with cells maintained at 37°C but these were not significantly different except in the case of HeLa cells. ATP levels ranged from 30.5 to 89.3 nmol/mg protein and there was variation in the glutathione content and glutathione S -transferase activities of the cells. This report demonstrates firstly that transport of glutathione conjugates is a feature of many cell types in vitro and secondly that the basal levels of GS-DNP secretion vary significantly between human cells.
Collagen gel sandwich and immobilization cultures of rat hepatocytes are two recently developed organotypical culture models. Basic information with respect to the maintenance of xenobiotic biotransformation pathways and the expression of key enzyme activities, however, is lacking, making their use in pharmaco-toxicological studies rather speculative. The expression of the glutathione S-tranferase (GST; EC 2.5.1.18) activity, a key phase II enzyme, has been chosen to study the various problems that may arise in expressing the results of cytosolic enzyme activities when rat hepatocytes are cultured using both new culture models. Collagen gel matrix easily entraps culture medium proteins. These interfere with the cytosolic protein content, a parameter versus which cytosolic enzyme activities, including GSTs, are usually expressed. The following solutions are proposed: expression of the cytosolic enzyme activity results versus either (i) microsomal proteins, these are not contaminated by medium proteins, or versus (ii) cytosolic proteins after a complete collagenase digestion (0.05% collagenase type I of Sigma, 45 min, 37 degrees C) of the collagen matrix. Expression of enzyme activities versus cellular DNA appears to be unacceptable since unreliable results were obtained due to entrapped DNA in the collagen matrix. Once it was known how to express cytosolic enzyme activity, the maintenance of GST activities was investigated in both culture models using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB) as substrates for total and Mu class GSTs, respectively. Two culture media were compared, control medium (DMEM) with and without supplementation of l-proline (final concentration 60 mug/ml). In both culture models, after an initial decrease, total GST activities increased significantly up to values higher than those observed for freshly isolated cells. The Mu class GST activities were maintained constant for 7 days and increased thereafter. l-Proline supplementation of the culture medium prevented the initial decline in total and Mu class GST activities in both culture configurations but did not seem to be of crucial importance in the maintenance of GST activities in both culture models.
Abstract Mechanisms of resistance were examined using UMC and KCM western flower thrips, Frankliniella occidentalis (Pergande), that differed in their susceptibility to diazinon by 14.2 times, with the latter strain being more tolerant. Diazinon penetration, metabolism, and excretion were faster in KCM than in UMC thrips. Metabolism of diazinon in both strains was mainly oxidative, and major metabolites cochromatographed with diazoxon, 2-isopropyl-4-methyl-6-hydroxypyrimidine, and 2-(2′-hydroxy-2′-propyl)-4-methyl-6-hydroxypyrimidine. Carboxylesterase activity in KCM thrips was significantly lower than that in UMC thrips and was 9.6 and 20.4 times less sensitive to diazoxon and eserine, respectively. Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity in KCM and UMC thrips was similar, but that in KCM thrips was 9.6 times less sensitive to diazoxon. Butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE) activity in the two strains was similar and was appreciably higher than AChE activity. BuChE activity in KCM thrips was 170 times less sensitive to diazoxon than that in UMC thrips. No interstrain difference in glutathione S-transferase activity was observed with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate. Diazinon resistance in western flower thrips was due chiefly to rapid metabolism and insensitive AChE. The role of BuChE, if any, in diazinon resistance is not currently known; however, by serving as an alternate phosphorylation site, it could reduce the level of organophosphate at the AChE target in both strains.
Abstract Glutathione S -transferase activity was measured in the hepatic cytosol front Dissostichus mawsoni and Pagothenia borchgrevinki . Activity measures with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate were 11·2 and 16·7 μmol/min/g tissue respectively. Little or no activity was detected when p -nitrobenzyl chloride or 3,4-dichloro-1-nitrobenzene were used as substrate. The hepatic glutathione S -transferases from D. mawsoni were partially purified using gel filtration and chromatofocusing. Three peaks of activity were resolved. The major isozyme (158-fold purification) eluting at pH7·1 appeared to be catalytically a homodimer. The isozyme was highly inhibited by triphenyltin chloride (IC 50 = 0·1 μ) while inhibition constants for Cibicron Blue 3GA, bromosulphophalein and hematin were 1·1, 20 and 34 μ respectively.
The cytosolic glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) comprise a pivotal enzyme system protecting the cell from electrophilic compounds. It plays a major role in the detoxication of the primary and dihydrodiol epoxides of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), so that modulation of this enzyme system by PAHs will impact on their carcinogenic activity. The potential of six structurally diverse PAHs, namely benzo[a]pyrene (B[a]P), fluoranthene, benzo[b]-fluoranthene (B[b]F), dibenzo[a,l]pyrene, dibenzo[a,h]anthracene (D[a,h]A) and 1-methhylphenanthrene, to modulate hepatic GST activity was investigated in human precision-cut slices and compared to rat slices, a species frequently used in long-term carcinogenicity studies; changes were monitored at the activity, using three different substrates, protein and mRNA levels. When activity was monitored using the α-class selective 7-chloro-4-nitrobenzo-2-oxa-1,3-diazole, B[b]F was the only PAH that caused an increase in activity, which was accompanied by a rise in the Ya immunoreacting band. In rat slices, in addition to B[b]F, B[a]P and D[a,h]A also enhanced activity, being paralleled with increased levels of the Ya immunoreacting band. In the rat, all PAHs elevated mRNA levels. In both human and rat liver slices, only B[b]F enhanced activity when 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) served as substrate. To investigate tissue differences, similar studies were undertaken in precision-cut rat lung slices, incubated with PAHs under identical conditions, using CDNB, as this was the only substrate for which activity could be detected; none of the PAHs studied stimulated activity. It is concluded that some PAHs have the potential to induce GST activity in human liver tissue and that species and tissue differences exist in the induction of this enzyme system in the rat. However, the extent of induction of GST activity is very modest compared with the effect these compounds have on CYP1 expression, the family responsible for their bioactivation, and it is unlikely to compensate for the enhanced production of reactive intermediates.
We have investigated the resistance of erythrocytes from diabetics and non-diabetics to glutathione depletion caused by p-benzoquinone, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), diethyl maleate and 4-aminophenol. Incubation of erythrocytes with 4-aminophenol (2 mM) caused a precipitous reduction (>80%) in cellular glutathione levels although there was no significant difference between 4-aminophenol-mediated glutathione depletion in the diabetic and non-diabetic cells. p-Benzoquinone and CDNB were both associated with a less severe initial reduction in glutathione levels (>50% at 30 min) although p-benzoquinone caused greater depletion (P < 0.001) at 4.5 h (21.1 +/- 3.1%, non-diabetic; 20.0 +/- 1.0%, diabetic) compared with CDNB (49.2 +/- 2.2%, non-diabetic; 51.3 +/- 1.1% diabetic). Although there was no significant difference between the two types of cell in terms of level of depletion, administration of diethyl maleate caused a significant reduction in glutathione levels at 30 min (P < 0.0005), 3.5 h (P < 0.05) and 4.5 h (P < 0.05) in erythrocytes from diabetic man compared with those from non-diabetic man. Co-administration of buthionine sulphoximine (20 mM) and 4-aminophenol (1 mM) also led to a significant reduction in glutathione levels in diabetic cells at 30 min (P < 0.05), 3.5 h (P < 0.02) and 4.5 h (P < 0.007) compared with those in non-diabetic cells. The observations that diabetic red cells' resistance to depletion was similar to that of nondiabetic cells for three of the four depletors, and that the combination of 4-aminophenol and buthionine sulphoximine-mediated inhibition of glutathione synthesis was required to illustrate differences suggests that diabetic complications might be a result of the long-term effect of small deficiencies in oxidative self-defence mechanisms such as glutathione.
Abstract Cytosolic glutathione transferases (GSTs) are major detoxification enzymes in aerobes. Each subunit has two distinct domains and an active site consisting of a G-site for binding GSH and an H-site for an electrophilic substrate. While the active site is located at the domain interface, the role of the stability of this interface in the catalytic function of GSTs is poorly understood. Domain 1 of class alpha GSTs has a conserved tryptophan (Trp21) in helix 1 that forms a major interdomain contact with helices 6 and 8 in domain 2. Replacing Trp21 with an alanine is structurally non-disruptive but creates a cavity between helices 1, 6 and 8 thus reducing the packing density and van der Waals contacts at the domain interface. This results in destabilization of the protein and a marked reduction in catalytic activity. While functionality at the G-site is not adversely affected by the W21A mutation, the H-site becomes more accessible to solvent and less favorable for the electrophilic substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). Not only does the mutation result in a reduction in the energy for stabilizing the transition state formed in the SNAr reaction between the substrates GSH and CDNB, it also compromises the ability of the enzyme to form and stabilize a transition state analogue (Meisenheimer complex) formed between GSH and 1,3,5-trinitrobenzene (TNB). The study demonstrates that the stability of the domain–domain interface plays a role in mediating the catalytic functionality of the active site, particularly the H-site, of class alpha GSTs.
A simple analytical expression for the current function has been formulated for reversible and irreversible processes in linear sweep voltammetry. The current function expression pertaining to the irreversible electron transfer reactions has been modified for the systems obeying Marcus-Hush kinetic law. The distinction between stepwise and concerted mechanisms has been delineated employing the current function analysis. A systematic way of distinguishing the mechanisms has been formulated employing Marcus-Hush model. The electrochemical reductive cleavage of the carbon-halogen bonds in 5-bromo-1,3-dichloro-2-iodobenzene have been analyzed so as to distinguish between the mechanistic dichotomy. The transition between the stepwise and concerted mechanisms has been demonstrated in 4′-bromomethylbiphenyl-2-carbonitrile. The electrochemical reductive cleavage of carbon-chlorine bond in 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene has been analyzed under EC mechanism. The reduction of carbon tetrachloride in various solvents follows a quadratic activation-driving force dynamics whereas the Butler-Volmer kinetics is observed in benzonitrile. A Hammett-type linear kinetic correlation pertaining to the cleavage of radical anions of aromatic halides has been formulated. The method of estimating standard potentials of irreversible electrode reactions has been demonstrated in the reduction of carbon-halogen bonds. The methodology for estimating Gibbs free energy of transfer of electrolytes from a reference solvent to the target solvent has been developed.
The effect of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNB), sulfobromophtalein (BSP) and cyclohexene oxide (cho) on N-acetylpenicillamine (NAPA) potentiated biliary excretion of methyl mercury in rats pretreated with cho for liver glutathione (GSH) depletion, has been tested. DNB, BSP and cho depressed NAPA potentiation of methyl mercury excretion in bile, while simultaneously biliary sulfhydryl concentration increased, due mainly to a relatively large proportion of unchanged NAPA, being excreted in bile. The fact that relatively large amounts of unchanged NAPA are excreted in bile, without affecting mercury excretion, indicates that NAPA per se cannot carry methyl mercury from liver to bile. In addition to unchanged NAPA, bile collected after administration of NAPA and DNB or BSP contained relatively large amounts of GSH conjugates of DNB or BSP, respectively, together with smaller amounts of GSH and another methyl mercury carrying component. The data are interpreted as suggesting that NAPA potentiation of methyl mercury excretion in bile can be due to an increased availability of GSH. However, it cannot be excluded that methyl mercury carrying components other than GSH and NAPA appearing in bile upon NAPA administration could play a role in NAPA potentiation of methyl mercury excretion in bile.
Insect antennae have a primary function of perceiving and discerning odorant molecules including sex pheromones and host plant volatiles. The assumption that genes highly expressed in the antennae may have an olfactory-related role associated with signal transduction. Here, one delta subfamily glutathione S-transferase (GST) gene (GmolGSTD1) was obtained from an antennal transcriptome of Grapholita molesta. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction results revealed that GmolGSTD1 was mainly expressed in antennae and the expression levels were significantly higher in female antennae than in male antennae. The recombinant GmolGSTD1 (rGmolGSTD1) showed glutathione-conjugating activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrates. The pH range for optimal rGmolGSTD1 enzyme activity was 6.0-6.5, and rGmolGSTD1 enzyme activity had maximal peaks at 35-40°C. Spectrophotometric analysis indicated that insecticides had weak inhibitory effects on the activity of rGmolGSTD1 with the inhibitory rates of 28.82% for chlorpyrifos, 22.27% for lambda-cyhalothrin, 18.07% for bifenthrin, 20.42% for acetamiprid, 17.57% for thiamethoxam, 25.67% for metaflumizone, 27.43% for abamectin, and 7.24% for chlorbenzuron. rGmolGSTD1 exhibited high degradation activity to the sex pheromone component (Z)-8-dodecenyl alcohol and the host plant volatile butyl hexanoate with the degradation efficiency of 75.01% and 48.54%, respectively. We speculate that GmolGSTD1 works in inactivating odorant molecules and maintaining sensitivity to olfactory communication of G. molesta.
The impact of chemical treatment (oxidation, reduction) of microporous carbon prepared from plum stones on the structural parameters was analysed using the nitrogen adsorption method. The effects of pre-adsorption of 2,4,6- trinitrotoluene (TNT) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) on the characteristics of the interfacial water layers in the 1 aqueous suspensions of these materials were explored using H NMR spectroscopy with freezing out of the bulk water between 210 and 273 K. Substantial variations in the Gibbs free energy of the interfacial water in the aqueous suspension of treated carbons were observed, especially for a reduced sample with pre-adsorbed nitroaromatics, due to changes in the hydrophilic-hydrophobic properties of the systems. © 2002 Published by Elsevier Science Ltd.
Abstract 1-Anilinonaphthalene-8-sulfonic acid (ANS) noncompetitively inhibited enzyme activity of glutathione S-transferase P for both glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (Ki=30 μM). Dissociation constant for ANS·GST-P complex calculated from the binding study was 15 μM. From the similar values of the inhibition constant and the dissociation constant, it was concluded that specific ANS binding caused the loss of enzyme activity. In the protein structural analysis by circular dichroism, the secondary structures remarkably changed by ANS binding in accordance with the decrease of enzymatic activities. The conformational change of the protein and the decrease in enzymatic activity were reversed by dissociation of ANS. This fact strongly suggested that the enzymatic activity was regulated by a nonsubstrate hydrophobic ligand.
2,4-Dinitrofluorobenzene (DNFB) reacts with glutathione to form a stable product similar to that formed with the model glutathione-S-transferase (GST) substrate, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). DNFB is approx. 40 times als reactive as CDNB in this chemical reaction. The enzymatic defluorination of DNFB also proceeds at a more rapid rate than that of CDNB in the GST assay. Fluoroacetamide (FAM), like fluoroacetate (FAC), undergoes no discernable chemical defluorination. Its enzymatic defluorination is approx. 10% of that observed for FAC and only 0.2% of the rate for DNFB. An antibody raised to the fluoroacetate specific dehalogenase (FSD) precipitated both FAC and FAM defluorinating activity but had no effect on either CDNB or DNFB activity. The data are consistent with the hypothesis that DNFB is metabolized by the GST while FAM is metabolized by the FSD.
Abstract The soluble glutathione S -transferase (GST) isoenzymes in rat brain were investigated using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as the second substrate. The percentages of the different CDNB-GST isoenzymes found were: anionic GST: 3.7%, GST D + E: 35.3%, GST C: 27.9%, GST B: 0.5%, GST A: 13.9% and GST AA: 18.6%. The percentages of isoenzymes are quite different from those measured in liver, testis and prostate. An important detoxication role of GST in brain is suggested.
Abstract Glutathione S -transferase (GST) and peroxidase (POX) activities have a direct relation to the effect of stress on plant metabolism. Changes in the activities of the enzymes were therefore studied. Horseradish hairy roots were treated by selected bivalent ions of heavy metals (HMs) and nitroaromatic compounds (NACs). We have shown differences in GST activity when assayed with substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB). The conjugation of DCNB catalysed by GST was inhibited in all roots treated with HMs as compared to non-treated roots, whereas NACs caused induction of the activity in dependence on the exposition time and concentration of compounds. The conjugation of CDNB by GST was not affected to the same extent. The increase of GST activity was determined in cultures treated by nickel (0.1 mM) and diaminonitrotoluenes (DANTs, 0.1 mM) for 6 h, whereas the roots treated by 2,4,6-trinitrotoluene (TNT), 4-amino-2,6-dinitrotoluene (ADNT) and dinitrotoluene (DNT, 1.0 mM) needed 27 h treatment to induce the activity. The POX activity of cultures treated by HMs was inhibited to 17–35% in comparison to non-treated cultures. The POX activity of roots treated by TNT (0.1 and 1.0 mM) for 6 and 27 h and by ADNT (0.1 and 1.0 mM) for 6 h was inhibited. A partial increase of POX activity was measured in roots treated by all NACs for 27 h. The content of oxidized glutathione (GSSG) and reduced glutathione (GSH) in the roots differed significantly. It was followed as a symptom of the stress reaction of the plant metabolism to the effect of NACs and HMs.
Abstract A comparative study of reduced glutathione (GSH) concentrations and activities of GSH related-enzymes in urinary bladder transitional epithelium (UBTE), urinary bladder nontransitional tissue (UBNT), and liver of the rabbit, was carried out to investigate the reasons for the susceptibility of UBTE towards peroxidase-mediated chemical carcinogenesis. Cooxidative activation of chemical carcinogens by prostaglandin H synthase occurs at high levels in UBTE and minimally in UBNT. Other peroxidases are also likely to activate carcinogenic xenobiotics in the urinary bladder. GSH concentrations in UBTE and UBNT were low compared to that in the liver. γ-Glutamyl transpeptidase activities were much lower in UBTE and in UBNT than those in the liver. Activities of selenium-dependent and selenium-independent glutathione peroxidases were very low in UBTE and UBNT. Cytosolic glutathione S-transferase activity towards 1,2-epoxy-(4-nitrophenoxy)propane was very low in UBTE. Microsomal glutathione S-transferase activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was much lower in UBTE than in the liver. We propose that the low GSH concentration and diminished activities of glutathione peroxidases, γ-glutamyl transpeptidase, and certain isozymes of glutathione S-transferase could be responsible for the vulnerability of UBTE towards chemical carcinogenesis.
Little is known about the role of specific delta GST genes in the detoxification of lambda-cyhalothrin in the global quarantine fruit pest codling moth, Cydia pomonella (L.). Real-time quantitative PCR shows that CpGSTd3 was ubiquitously expressed at all developmental stages and is most abundant in the larval stage and lowest in the egg stage; the mRNA level of CpGSTd3 is higher in the midgut and Malpighian tubules of fourth-instar larvae and abdomens of adults than in other tissues. Exposure of fourth-instar larvae to an LD10 dosage of lambda-cyhalothrin significantly induced the transcript of CpGSTd3 at 3 h, but the mRNA level was down-regulated after 12 h of treatment. Recombinant CpGSTd3 expressed in Escherichia coli was able to catalyze the conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and with an IC50 value of 0.65 mM for lambda-cyhalothrin. Metabolism assays indicate that recombinant CpGSTd3 could metabolize lambda-cyhalothrin. These results suggest that CpGSTd3 is probably a lambda-cyhalothrin...
Abstract: On bases of previous observations on the band 3 anion exchange inhibition by the electrophilic reagent 1-fluoro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in resealed ghosts and a previously proposed band 3-based mechanism of control of the erythrocyte shape, it is suggested that stomatocytoses by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and other electrophilic reagents are due to an inhibition of the band 3 anion exchange by a covalent modification of Lys 539, one of the two lysine intramolecularly cross-linked by impermeant 4,4'-diisothiocyanodihydrostilbene-2,2'-disulfonic acid, a band 3 anion exchange potent inhibitor. Attempts to explain these stomatocytoses led to explain the echinocytosis and competitive inhibition of band 3 anion exchange by stilbenedisulfonic acid derivatives and the reversal of the echinocytosis by 2,4-dinitrophenol by one stomatocytogenic of the electrophilic reagents. The inference on stomatocytoses by electrophilic reagents is of interest since stomatocytogenic and echinocytogenic by amphiphiles are perceived to interact noncovalently with the membrane and that they can be clinically relevant.
Glutathione-S-transferase (GST) from the liver cytosol of phenobarbital (PB)-treated rabbits was purified by DEAE-cellulose, CM-cellulose and hydroxylapatite column chromatography. Four species of GST were obtained by eluting the CM-cellulose column with a linear KCl gradient, and the major protein investigated. The purified enzyme from PB-treated and untreated rabbit had specific activities of 125.16 units/mg and 72.8 units/mg of protein, respectively, and the apparent Km was 0.6 X 10(-3) M for GSH and 1.6 X 10(-3) M for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. The optimum pH value was 8.7 and the enzyme was able to conjugate with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)propane and p-nitrobenzyl chloride.
Abstract Cytosolic fractions from hepato-pancreas and green gland of the red swamp crayfish, Procambarus clarkii contained high glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity, 5·4±0·6 and 4·2±0·2 μmol/min/mg protein, respectively as measured with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). The GSTs have been purified to electrophoretic homogeneity from 105 000 x g supernatant of hepato-pancreas and green gland homogenates by employing Sephadex G-200, DEAE-Sephacel and chromatofocusing. Two isoenzymes were purified from hepato-pancreas; one which eluted at pH 5·2 with a specific activity of 86·8 μmol/min/mg, and one at pH 5·1 with a specific activity of 58·3 μmol/min/mg. Purification of GST from green gland resulted in two isoenzymes which eluted at pH 5·1 and 4·6 and had specific activities of 38·0 and 164 μmol/min/mg, respectively. Preliminary data suggest that all of the isoenzymes are dimers with subunit molecular weights of 22 000–23 000 Da. The purified GST were most active in the conjugation of CDNB and showed little or no activity towards other common substrates. Cytosolic activities with p -nitrophenyl acetate and p -nitrophenyl trimethylacetate were higher than could be accounted for by the activity of the purified isoenzymes. These data suggest the presence of isoenzymes in cytosol that might have gone undetected using a purification scheme which employs CDNB as the electrophilic substrate. Kinetic parameters and inhibition characteristics further distinguished between the isoenzymes.
A kinetic spectrophotometric method is described for the detection and determination of propellant grade hydrazines and its derivatives based on their reaction with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) incorporated in a solution matrix of polyaniline-Emaraldine Base (Pani-EB) to produce HCl. This strong acid protonates (dopes) Pani (EB-Blue) to form Pani Emeraldine salt (ES-Green). A kinetic study based on the gradual decrease in absorbance at 626 nm for both nano and conventional Pani–CDNB systems was carried out at 50 °C and 60 °C under optimized conditions in the dynamic concentration range of 0.1–0.004 M. Initial rate and fixed time methods were adopted for constructing calibration curves. Hydrazines were determined based on the linear relationship between percent absorbance change at 30 min. and their concentration. R.S.D. for five replicate determinations of each one of these hydrazines using both systems is less than 1.5%. Minimum detectable limits for hydrazines were found for both systems. This method was successfully applied for determination of hydrazines in tap water with satisfactory analytical results.
The drug disulfiram (DSF, Antabuse) has been used in the therapy of alcohol abuse. It is a potent inhibitor of aldehyde dehydrogenase. Its reduced form, diethyldithiocarbamate (DDTC), and further metabolites show similar activities. DSF and DDTC have also been widely used to inhibit mixed-function oxidases. In this study, the reversible inhibition and time-dependent inactivation of the major rat and human glutathione S-transferase (GST) isoenzymes by DSF and DDTC was investigated. Reversible inhibition, using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate for the GST alpha-, mu-, and pi-class, expressed as I50 (in microM), ranged from 5-18 (human A1-1), 43-57 (rat 4-4) and 66-83 (rat 1-1), for both DSF and DDTC. The I50 for rat GST theta, using 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)-propane as substrate, was 350 microM for DDTC. The other GSTs were significantly less sensitive to inhibition. The major part of reversible inhibition by DSF was shown to be due to DDTC, formed rapidly upon reduction of DSF by the glutathione (GSH) present in the assay to measure GST activity. The oxidized GSH formed upon reduction of DSF might also have made a minor contribution to reversible inhibition. The rat and human pi-class was, by far, the most sensitive class for time-dependent inactivation by DSF, but no such inactivation was observed for any of the GSTs by DDTC. Moderate susceptibility to inactivation by DSF of all the other GSTs was observed, except for human A2-2, which does not possess a cysteine residue. Consistent with the assumption that a thiol residue is involved in this inactivation, a significant part of the activity could be restored by treatment of the inactivated GST with GSH or dithiotreitol.
Microsomal glutathione transferase 1 (MGST1) possesses glutathione transferase and peroxidase activities and is active in biotransformation of xenobiotics and in defense against oxidative stress. To assess MGST1 role in the development and functioning of PC12 cells, we constructed a cell line with reduced MGST1 (PC12_M). Real-time PCR and immunoblot assays showed MGST1 expression lowered to 60 % and immunocytochemical analyses demonstrated an altered concentration and distribution of the enzyme. PC12_M cells revealed a larger tendency to grow in clusters, weaker adhesion, irregular shape of bodies, short neurite outgrowth and higher percentage of necrotic cells (34 %). The total GSTs activity determined with non-specific substrate CDNB (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene) decreased by 15-20 %, whereas that with DCNB (2,4-dichloro-1-nitrobenzene), a substrate more specific for cytosolic GSTs, was similar to the one in control cells. This suggests that reduction of MGST1 cannot be compensated by other glutathione transferases. In PC12_M cells the total glutathione content was higher by 15-20 %, whereas the GSSG/GSH ratio was lower than in control cells. Moreover, the laminin-dependent migration rate was much faster in control cells than in PC12_M, suggesting some alterations in the metastatic potential of the line with suppressed MGST1. The amount of MAP kinases (p38, JNK, ERK1/2) was elevated in PC12_M cells but their phosphorylation level declined. Microarray analysis showed changed expression of several genes, which may be linked with differentiation and necrosis of PC12_M cells. Our data suggest that MGST1 could be an important regulator of PC12 cells development and might have significant effects on cell growth and proliferation, probably through altered expression of genes with different biological function.
Summary After 6 days following the local effect (during operation) of ultrasound (2 Wt/cm 2 , 1 min) the microsomal fraction showed decreased total content of cytochromes P-450 (P-450), rate of NADPH oxidation, activity of NADPH-cytochrome P450 reductase and P450 IIE1 (aniline as substrate) by 40, 28, 16 and 42 %, respectively. In addition, after 12 days the activities of P450 IIIA1 (ethylmorphine as substrate) and cytosolic sulphobromophthalein glutathione transferase (SBPh-GT) were decreased by 59 and 26 %. The administration of heparin (intramuscularly, 250 ED/kg, in a day, 3 and 6 times) exerted a normalizing effect. The P450 concentration, NADPH oxidation rate and P450 IIB1 activity (amidopyrine as substrate), IIE1 and IIIA1, SBPh-GT and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene-GT in microsomes and cytosol exceded the corresponding values in untreated animals by 31, 40, 68, 224, 68, 42, 24 and 36 %. The administration of heparin to control animals (intramuscularly, 250 and 500 mg/kg, in a day, 5 times) essentially unaffected both the monooxygenase, glucuro- and glutathioneconjugating systems and the elimination of antipyrine (substrate of preferably P-450 IA2) and SBPh (substrate of GT) from rat blood plasma. The experimental results provide evidence for a possible role of endogenous heparin in maintaing the optimal level of the activities of the enzyme systems of xenobiotics microsomal oxidation and conjugation in liver injury.
Label-free protein immobilization allows precise detection of biomolecular events. Preserving enzyme function is intrinsically challenging for these strategies. Considering that glutathione S-transferase (GST) is a broadly employed enzymatic fusion tag, we reported a label-free self-catalyzed immobilization for Schistosoma japonicum GST. We now report the synthesis, structure, and enzymology of a set of 20 smSNAREs (small molecule SNAr-electrophiles). These smSNAREs mimic (electronically) the canonical GST substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), and bear a wide variety of bioorthogonal functionalities such as alkynes, aldehydes, acetals, and azides. Sixteen analogues including the chloro- and nitro-substituted 1, 3, 5, 6, 7, 11, 12, and 13 participated in the GST-catalyzed conjugation, indicating the substrate tolerance of the enzymatic H-site of SjGST. Using UV-vis spectroscopy, we estimate the efficiency of conjugation as a function of substrate diversity. Using LC-MS, we characterized the conjugates formed under each enzymatic transformation. Significant deviations from the canonical CDNB architecture are tolerated. Relative rates between nitro and chloro substituents indicate the nucleophilic addition step is rate determining. Enzyme immobilization on glass slides is affected by additional surface interactions and therefore does not reflect kinetic profiles observed in solution. This new class of heterobifunctional linkers enables a single-step and uniform protein capture on designer surfaces.
A method was developed to measure the formation of glutathione adducts of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and 2,4-dichloro-1-nitrobenzene (DCNB) in periportal and pericentral regions of the liver lobule in the isolated perfused rat liver by surface reflectance spectrophotometry. Conjugates of DCNB and CDNB are released from livers of normal and phenobarbital-treated rats during perfusion in either the anterograde or the retrograde direction at maximal rates around 13-15 mumol/g/hr. The formation of S-(1-chloro-4-nitrophenyl)-glutathione and S-(2,4-dinitrophenyl)-glutathione by the liver decreased the amount of 366-nm light reflected from the liver surface detected with a large-tipped (2 mm) fiberoptic light guide. Initial rates of decrease in reflected light correlated highly with maximal rates of conjugate formation by the liver. Subsequently, micro-light guides were placed on periportal and pericentral regions of the liver lobule. Rates of glutathione adduct formation were calculated from the proportion of the total change in rate of reflected 366-nm light which occurred in each region and the overall rate of product formation by the liver. Changes in the reflectance signal require reduced glutathione (GSH) and were shown to originate from intracellular conjugate formation and not from adducts in the bile canaliculus. Livers from normal rats produced conjugated products from DCNB (100 microM) at maximal rates of 14 and 15 mumol/g/hr in periportal and pericentral regions of the liver lobule, respectively. With CDNB as substrate, changes in reflected light at 366 nm were detected nearly exclusively in periportal regions of the lobule in livers from normal rats. In sharp contrast, CDNB and DCNB were conjugated exclusively in periportal regions of the lobule at rates of 21-22 mumol/g/hr in livers from phenobarbital-treated rats (i.e., the reflectance signal was not altered by these substrates in pericentral areas). When CDNB and DCNB were infused into livers from phenobarbital-treated rats perfused in the retrograde direction, decreases in reflected light at 366 nm were detected initially in pericentral areas followed in about 12 min by changes in periportal regions. Maximal rates of adduct formation in both regions reached 25 mumol/g/hr during perfusion in the retrograde direction. Thus, pericentral regions indeed possess the capacity to conjugate both CDNB and DCNB. When glutathione synthesis was inhibited with L-buthionine sulfoximine treatment (6 mmol/kg), which partially depletes GSH, CDNB was conjugated in both periportal and pericentral regions of the liver lobule in livers from phenobarbital-treated rats.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
In order to find the relationship between tissue-specific expressions of glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) and their function in preventing effects of environmental toxicants, GSTs were primarily purified by GST-Sepharose 4B affinity chromatography from liver intestine, gill, mantle, and adductor muscle of Asaphis dichotoma, Amusium pleuronectes pleuronectes, and Atactodea striata. Determination of GSTs was also made in samples taken from the tissue muscle enshielding of A. dichotoma and A. striata. Dodecyl sulfate sodium salt polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) showed that each tissue has its own unique patterns of GSTs. Studies on tissue-specific activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), 4-chloro-7-nitro-2,1,3-benzoxadiazole (NBD-CI), 4-nitrophthalic acid (4-NPA), and ethacrynic acid (ECA) indicated that GSTs from liver intestine exhibited the highest CDNB conjugation activity among all individual tissues from any of the three species sampled. Furthermore, liver intestine and its connected tissue (muscle enshielding) in these shellfishes accounted for more than 50% of the total detoxification toward the xenobiotic electrophile CDNB.
This paper presents a simple and sensitive kinetic spectrophotometric method for the determination of ramipril in commercial dosage forms. The method is based on the reaction of the drug with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) in dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) at 100 ± 1 o C. The reaction is followed spectrophotometrically by measuring the rate of change of the absorbance at 420 nm. Fixed-time (ΔA) and equilibrium methods are adopted for constructing the calibration curves. Both the calibration curves were found to be linear over the concentration ranges 20 - 220 μg/ml. The regression analysis of calibration data yielded the linear equations: Δ A = 6.30 × 10 -4 + 1.54 × 10 -3 C and A = 3.62 × 10 -4 + 6.35 × 10 -3 C for fixed time (Δ A) and equilibrium methods, respectively. The limits of detection (LOD) for fixed time and equilibrium methods are 1.47 and 1.05 μg/ml, respectively. The method has been successfully applied to the determination of ramipril in commercial dosage forms. Statistical comparison of the results shows that there is no significant difference between the proposed methods and Abdellatef's spectrophotometric method.
The irreversible and reversible inhibition of glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) by eugenol was studied in rat, mouse and man. Using liver cytosol of human, rat and mouse, species differences were found in the rate of irreversible inhibition of GSTs by eugenol in the presence of the enzyme tyrosinase. Tyrosinase was used to oxidize eugenol. No inhibition was observed in the absence of tyrosinase. The rate of irreversible inhibition of GSTs was highest in mouse cytosol, and lowest in rat cytosol. In addition, the irreversible inhibition of human and rat GSTs by eugenol was studied using purified isoenzymes of man and rat. The human GST isoenzymes A1-1, M1a-1a and P1-1 and the rat GST isoenzymes 1-1, 2-2, 3-3, 4-4 and 7-7 were irreversibly inhibited by eugenol in the presence of tyrosinase. In this respect human GST P1-1 and rat GST 7-7 were by far the most sensitive enzymes; human GST A2-2 was not inhibited. indications were found that human GST P1-1 may be inhibited via three mechanisms: in addition to the well documentated nucleophilic addition of quinones and oxidation of cysteine residues, a covalent subunit cross-linking was also observed. The reversible inhibition of human and rat GST by eugenol, eugenol methyl ether, isoeugenol methyl ether, 2-allylphenol and 4-propylphenol was also studied using purified isoenzymes. The reversible inhibition of human and rat GSTs, using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate, was expressed as It, All compounds caused moderate reversible inhibition (I25 ranged from 0.2 to 5.4 mM for human GSTs and from 0.4 to 4.9 mM for rat GSTs). In rat, eugenol methyl ether was the strongest inhibitor. In human, the overall inhibiting capacities of eugenol, eugenol methyl ether, isoeugenol methyl ether and 4-propyl phenol were more or less similar; 2-allylphenol was the poorest inhibitor. Chemicals/CAS: 2-allylphenol, 1745-81-9; 4-propylphenol, 645-56-7; Allyl Compounds; Eugenol, 97-53-0; Glutathione Transferase, EC 2.5.1.18; Isoenzymes; isoeugenol, 97-54-1; methyleugenol, 93-15-2; Monophenol Monooxygenase, EC 1.14.18.1; Phenols
Abstract A novel class α glutathione S -transferase (GST) isozyme is expressed in the hepatic cytosol of rabbits treated with 4-picoline. SDS-PAGE analysis revealed the presence of a new 28-kDa band which cross-reacted with class α GST-specific IgG. This new GST isozyme was isolated from the hepatic cytosol of 4-picoline-treated rabbits and purified to homogeneity using S -hexylglutathione-agarose, CM-Sepharose, and PBE118 chromatofocusing chromatography. The isozyme was determined by SDS-PAGE and gel filtration analyses to be a homodimer of approximately 28 kDa with blocked N-terminus. A heterodimer consisting of 25 and 28 kDa subunits with activity toward the substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was also purified. Immunoblot analysis revealed that the 25, 26.5, and 28 kDa bands cross-reacted with class α GST-specific IgG and failed to react with either class μ or class π GST-specific antibodies. The 28 kDa enzyme had a p I of 8.2 as determined by nonequilibrium pH gel electrophoresis. The purified 28 kDa enzyme exhibited activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene ( K m = 1.60 m m and V max = 73.5 μ mol/min/mg) and cumene hydroperoxide ( K m = 1.02 m m and V max = 6.92 μ mol/min/mg). Amino acid sequence analysis of several fragments resulting from cyanogen bromide cleavage of the 28 kDa GST isozyme revealed a class α GST consensus sequence. In addition, proteolytic digestion with α-chymotrypsin yielded peptide maps which showed distinct differences between the purified 28 kDa GST and another purified class α GST isozyme present in rabbit liver. These results provide evidence that class α GST isozymes containing a novel 28 kDa subunit are expressed following treatment with 4-picoline.
Microsomal glutathione transferase 1 (MGST1) displays the unique ability to be activated, up to 30-fold, by the reaction with sulfhydryl reagents, e.g., N-ethylmaleimide. Analysis of glutathione (GSH) thiolate formation, which occurs upon mixing activated MGST1 with GSH, reveals biphasic kinetics, where the rapid phase dominated at higher GSH concentrations. The kinetic behavior suggests a two-step mechanism consisting of a rapid GSH-binding step (K(D)(GSH) approximately 10 mM), followed by slower formation of thiolate (k(2) approximately 10 s(-1)). The release rate (or protonation of the enzyme GSH thiolate complex) of GS(-) was slow (k(-2) = 0.016 s(-1)), consistent with overall tight binding of GSH. Electrophilic second substrates react rapidly with the E*GS(-) complex, and again, a two-step mechanism is suggested. In comparison to the unactivated enzyme [Morgenstern et al. (2001) Biochemistry 40, 3378-3384], the mechanisms of GSH thiolate formation and electrophile interaction are similar; however, thiolate anion formation is enhanced 30-fold in the activated enzyme, contributing to an increased k(cat) (3.6 s(-1)). Interestingly, in the activated enzyme, thiolate formation and proton release from the enzyme are not strictly coupled, because proton release (as well as k(cat)) was found to be approximately 4 times slower than GSH thiolate formation in an unbuffered system. Solvent kinetic isotope effect measurements demonstrated a 2-fold decrease in the rate constant (k(2)) for thiolate formation and k(cat) (in the reaction with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene) for both unactivated and activated MGST1. This indicates that thiolate formation contributes to k(cat) for the activated enzyme, as suggested previously for unactivated MGST1. The stoichiometry of thiolate formation, proton release, and burst kinetics suggested utilization of one GSH molecule per enzyme trimer.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats were injected ip with benzene, toluene, or a mixture of xylene isomers at 20 mmol hydrocarbon/kg daily for 3 days. The effects of administration of these hydrocarbons upon their own in vitro metabolism, as well as upon cytochrome P-450, NADPH-cytochrome c reductase, aminopyrine N-demethylase, aniline hydroxylase, glutathione, glutathione S-transferase, and UDPglucuronyltransferase in liver were studied. Each hydrocarbon studied increased its own in vitro metabolism. Benzene had no effect on the metabolism of toluene or xylenes. Toluene and xylenes increased the metabolism of benzene, toluene, and xylenes. Cytochrome P-450 was elevated by toluene and xylenes, but was not affected by benzene. NADPH-cytochrome c reductase was induced by all three hydrocarbons. Aminopyrine N-demethylase and aniline hydroxylase were induced by toluene and xylenes and were not affected by benzene. Glutathione was elevated by benzene, decreased by xylenes, and not affected by toluene. Glutathione S-transferase was induced differentially by these hydrocarbons toward various substrates: toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene by benzene and toluene, toward 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene by benzene and xylenes, and no effect toward 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)propane by any hydrocarbons. UDPglucuronyltransferase was induced by benzene and toluene when o-aminophenol and phenol were used as the substrate. Xylenes had no effect. Benzene was more effective at inducing conjugation enzymes. Xylenes were more effective at inducing cytochrome P-450 dependent enzymes. Toluene was equipotent at inducing both types of enzymes. The results indicate that the addition of methyl groups to the aromatic ring affects the inductive pattern of these monocyclic aromatic hydrocarbons.
Glutathione S-transferase (GST) has been quantified and characterized in healthy human anagen hair follicles obtained from 36 men and 36 women (26 +/- 7 years of age). GST activity was determined using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as a substrate, and the values in men were: 0.5 +/- 0.2 mU/follicle, significantly different from women (0.36 +/- 0.2 mU/follicle); 196 +/- 98 mU/mg protein and 309 +/- 158 mU/mg DNA without significant differences from women. Enzyme activity showed a high degree of inter-individual variability (23.5-fold when expressed per follicle, 18.29-fold expressed per mg of protein and 22.75-fold per mg of DNA) in the whole population and this variability was higher in women. Ion-exchange chromatography by KCl and enzyme immunoassay suggest that the GST present in hair follicles corresponds with the acidic form. The percentage of anagen hairs in each subject showed a positive correlation with the following parameters: GST/hair, GST/DNA and DNA/hair. It is concluded that GST may contribute to the maintenance of the hair growth cycle.
The reaction of aniline with 1-fluoro-2,4-dinitrobenzene is base catalysed in the solvents dimethylformamide, acetonitrile, and nitromethane, but not in dimethyl sulphoxide. The reaction with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene is not base catalysed in any of these solvents. The results provide information about the mechanism of the uncatalysed decomposition of the intermediate formed in nucleophilic aromatic substitution in solvents of high dielectric constant.
With 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as the electrophilic substrate, the specific activity of glutathione S-transferase in rat haemolysates was found to range from 0.002 to 0.013 mumol/min/mg haemoglobin at 30 degrees C. To establish the glutathione S-transferase composition, chromatofocusing was used which indicated the presence of a single soluble isoenzyme with an apparent pI of 6.1. A molecular weight of 48,000 was determined for the enzyme by gel filtration. The transferase enzyme in intact erythrocytes is shown to catalyze the formation of S-(2,4-dinitrophenyl)-glutathione from 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and endogenous glutathione. Efflux of this conjugate from erythrocytes proceeded at a rate of 13 nmol/min/ml at 37 degrees C.
Typically chemopreventive agents either induce phase II detoxifying enzymes or inhibit the cytochrome P450 enzymes (CYPs) that are required for the metabolism of carcinogens. In this study, we isolated a coumarin compound, isoimperatorin from Poncirus trifoliata Raf., and studied its protective effects against aflatoxin B 1 (AFB1)-induced cytotoxicity in H4IIE cells. Isoimperatorin (>0.3 μM) significantly inhibited the cytotoxic effect of AFB1. CDNB [1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene; glutathine S-transferase (GST) subtype-non-specific] and NBD (7-chloro-4-nitrobenzo-2-oxa-1,3-diazole; GSTa type-specific) assays revealed that isoimperatorin (0.3-3 μM) increased GST activity in a concentration-dependent manner. Western blot analyses using subtype-specific antibodies confirmed that GSTa protein, but not GSTμ or GSTπ, was induced in cells treated with isoimperatorin. Reporter gene analysis using an antioxidant response element (ARE) containing construct and subcellular fractionation assays revealed that GSTa induction by isoimperatorin is associated with Nrf2/ARE activation. Moreover, ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase assays showed that isoimperatorin (2 μM) completely inhibited 3-methylchoranthrene-inducible CYP1A activity. These results indicate that isoimperatorin from Poncirus trifoliata Raf. possesses a potent hepatoprotective effect against AFB1, presumably through the induction of GSTa and the direct inhibition of CYP1A, and suggest that isoimperatorin should be considered a potential chemopreventive.
Two distinct cDNAs corresponding to GSTA1 and GSTA2 genes encoding glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) from the hepatopancreas of red sea bream, Pagrus major were cloned and sequenced. A comparison of the nucleotide sequences of GSTA1 and GSTA2 revealed 98% identity and their derived amino acid sequences had 96% similarity. Both genes could be classified as alpha-class GSTs on the basis of their amino acid sequence identity with other species. Genomic DNA cloning showed that both GSTA1 and GSTA2 genes consisted of six exons and five introns. In a comparison of genomic DNAs, the structures of GSTA1 and GSTA2 differed. In addition, Southern-blot analysis indicated that at least two kinds of alpha-class GSTs existed in the P. major genome. In order to biochemically characterize the recombinant enzymes (pmGSTA1-1 and pmGSTA2-2), both clones were highly expressed in Escherichia coli. The purified pmGSTA1-1 and pmGSTA2-2 exhibited glutathione conjugating activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and glutathione peroxidase activity toward cumene hydroperoxide, while neither pmGSTs show detectable activity toward 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, ethacrynic acid, 4-hydroxynonenal, or p-nitrobenzyl chloride. Despite their high level of amino acid sequence identity, the pmGSTs had quite different enzyme-kinetic parameters.
Previous lab studies implicated the sulfoxidation pathway of molinate metabolism to induce testicular toxicity. Once molinate is metabolized to molinate sulfoxide, it undergoes further phase II metabolism either spontaneously, enzyme catalyzed, or both to form glutathione-conjugated molinate. This study compared the metabolic capability of rat and human liver cytosol to form a glutathione (GSH)-conjugated metabolite of molinate. The GSH conjugation of molinate sulfoxide in rat cytosol was described by the constants Km of 305 microM and Vmax of 4.21 nmol/min/mg cytosol whereas the human values were 91 microM and 0.32 nmol/min/mg protein for Km and Vmax, respectively. At the same 1 mM GSH concentration, the in vitro bimolecular nonenzymatic rate constant of 3.02 x 10(-6) microM(-1) min(-1) was calculated for GSH conjugation of molinate sulfoxide. Specific activity for rat and human glutathione transferase was calculated to equal 1.202 +/- 0.25 and 0.809 +/- 0.45 micromol/min/mg protein, respectively by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) assay. Compared to a conventional GSH depletion model (BSO + DEM combination), molinate alone was nearly as effective in reducing GSH levels by approximately 90 and 25% in liver and testes, respectively. The impact of molinate sulfoxide's ability to adduct glutathione transferase and inhibit the production of the glutathione conjugated metabolite was examined and found to be negligible.
The UV–H2O2 process, a standard advanced oxidation process (AOP) for water treatment, has been applied to the degradation of a series of nitroaromatic compounds (nitrobenzene, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 2,4-dinitrophenol, 3-nitrophenol, 4-nitrophenol and 4-chloro-3,5-dinitrobenzoic acid) using polychromatic radiation sources. The optimal concentration of hydrogen peroxide ([H2O2]OPT) leading to the fastest degradation rate of a given substrate (S) was determined experimentally and estimated using a simplified kinetic model based on the main reactions involved in the first stages of the oxidation. We have shown that, under conditions of monochromatic irradiation, the ratio ROPT ::: (= ::: [H2O2]OPT/[S]0) is given by a simple mathematical expression containing only a few parameters, ::: whereas, under conditions of polychromatic irradiation, ROPT is expressed by a complex mathematical equation (involving the spectral distribution of the lamp emission and the absorption spectra of H2O2 and the substrate). Two numerical analysis procedures are proposed for obtaining the bimolecular rate constants for the reaction of hydroxyl radicals with a substrate (kS) from this equation. The rate constants, kS, determined for the substrates investigated in this work are in agreement with the expected reactivity trend, taking into account the effects of substituents on the distribution of electron density in the aromatic ring. The methods proposed in this work offer a double advantage: i) a standard AOP may be used to evaluate the rate constants of reaction of substrates with hydroxyl radicals under polychromatic as well as under monochromatic irradiation, ii) optimal amounts ::: of additive may be obtained using only a few parameters as predictive tools.
There are currently no accepted biological prediction models for assessing the potential of a substance to cause respiratory sensitization. New tests should be based on mechanistic understanding and should be preferentially restricted to in vitro assays. The major goal of this study was to investigate the alterations in gene expression of human alveolar epithelial (A549) cells after exposure to respiratory sensitizing and non-respiratory sensitizing chemicals, and to identify genes that are able to discriminate between both groups of chemicals. A549 cells were exposed during 6, 10, and 24 h to the respiratory sensitizers ammonium hexachloroplatinate IV, hexamethylene diisocyanate, and trimellitic anhydride, the irritants acrolein and methyl salicylate, and the skin sensitizer 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Overall changes in gene expression were evaluated using Agilent Whole Human Genome 4x44K oligonucleotide arrays. A Fisher linear discriminant analysis was used to obtain a ranking of genes that reflects their potential to discriminate between respiratory sensitizing and respiratory non-sensitizing chemicals. Among the 20 most discriminating genes, which were categorized into molecular and biological gene ontology (GO) terms, CTLA4 could be associated with asthma and/or respiratory sensitization. When categorizing the top-1000 genes into biological GO terms, 22 genes were associated with immune function. Using a pathway analysis tool to identify possible underlying mechanisms of respiratory sensitization, no known canonical signaling pathway was observed to be activated in the A549 cell line.
Toxic shock-induced deflocculation was examined for activated sludge exposed to six different classes of industrially relevant chemical toxins: an electrophilic solvent (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, CDNB), a heavy metal (cadmium), a hydrophobic chemical (1-octanol), an uncoupling agent (2,4-initrophenol, DNP), alkaline pH, and weakly complexed cyanide. The concentrations required to inhibit respiration by 50% were used to shock sequencing batch reactors (SBRs) containing a nitrifying (10-day solids retention time (SRT)) and a non-nitrifying (2-day SRT) biomass. Effluent total suspended solids (TSS) and soluble potassium were monitored to examine deflocculation caused by a bacterial stress response mechanism called glutathione-gated potassium efflux (GGKE). Reactors were monitored for recovery over a period of 3 SRTs or less. At the concentrations tested, CDNB, cadmium and pH 11 were found to cause significant increases in effluent TSS concentrations and showed elevated levels of potassium. In contrast, octanol, DNP and cyanide did not induce severe deflocculation and showed moderate increases in effluent potassium levels. Recovery of effluent TSS and potassium concentrations to control levels generally did not correlate, supporting the hypothesis that reflocculation requires regrowth of biomass. These results suggest that different chemicals induce deflocculation in SBRs, but deflocculation is not necessarily caused by the GGKE mechanism in all cases.
The glutathione S-transferases are a family of dimeric enzymes that catalyze the reaction between GSH and a variety of electrophiles. Two closely related isozymes, referred to as YaYa and YcYc, were purified from rat liver. A radiolabeled azido derivative of glutathione (S-(p-azidophenacyl)[3H]glutathione) was prepared and used to label covalently the active site of the above two glutathione S-transferases. The noncovalently bound affinity label was a competitive inhibitor of glutathione S-transferase YaYa toward both 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and GSH. The covalently labeled enzymes no longer bound to a GSH-affinity column, and covalent labeling was reduced in the presence of GSH and S-(dinitrophenyl)glutathione. These results suggest that the affinity label was binding at the active site. The covalently labeled enzymes were digested with trypsin, and the labeled peptides were purified by HPLC and then sequenced. A single-labeled peptide was identified in the tryptic digest of the YaYa isozyme, whereas two labeled peptides were present in the tryptic digest of YcYc. The Ya peptide sequence was identical with the published deduced sequence of amino acids between residues 212 and 218 and the sequences of the two peptides purified from Yc were identical with the deduced sequence of amino acids between 91 and 110 and 206 and 218. Hence, the Ya peptide and the smaller peptide purified from Yc came from the same region of the Ya and Yc subunits. This common region and a second region of the Yc subunit appear to form a portion of the active site of these two forms of glutathione S-transferase.
Citrus Bioactive Compounds Influencing Phase II Detoxifying Enzymes: Potential For Cancer Chemoprevention. (May 2007) Jose Luis Perez, B.S., University of Texas Pan-American Chair of Advisory Committee: Dr. Bhimanagouda S. Patil Several cell culture and animal studies demonstrated that citrus limonoids have protective effects against certain types of cancer. These chemopreventive properties of citrus limonoids are attributed to the induction of phase II enzyme, glutathione Stransferase (GST). In the current study, six citrus limonoids and two modified limonoids were utilized for the evaluation of NAD(P)H: quinone reductase (QR) activity and glutathione S-tranferase (GST) activity against 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and 4-nitroquinoline 1-oxide (4NQO) in A/J female mice. In liver, limonoids that induced phase II enzyme activity were limonin-7methoxime (32% CBNB), (270% 4NQO), (65% QR); and deacetylnomilin (180% QR). In stomach, limonin-7-methoxime (51% 4NQO); deacetyl nomilinic acid glucoside (55% 4NQO), nomilin (58% CDNB), (75% 4NQO); isoobacunoic acid (25% CDNB); deacetylnomilin (19% CDNB); limonoid mixture (45% 4NQO), (200% QR). Furthermore, in intestine, nomilin (280% 4NQO); deacetylnomilin (73% 4NQO), (22% QR); and the limonoid mixture (93% 4NQO) increase enzymatic activity. Finally in lung,
Microsomal glutathione transferase 1 (MGST1) possesses glutathione transferase and peroxidase activities and is active in biotransformation of xenobiotics and in defense against oxidative stress. To assess MGST1 role in the development and functioning of PC12 cells, we constructed a cell line with reduced MGST1 (PC12_M). Real-time PCR and immunoblot assays showed MGST1 expression lowered to 60 % and immunocytochemical analyses demonstrated an altered concentration and distribution of the enzyme. PC12_M cells revealed a larger tendency to grow in clusters, weaker adhesion, irregular shape of bodies, short neurite outgrowth and higher percentage of necrotic cells (34 %). The total GSTs activity determined with non-specific substrate CDNB (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene) decreased by 15-20 %, whereas that with DCNB (2,4-dichloro-1-nitrobenzene), a substrate more specific for cytosolic GSTs, was similar to the one in control cells. This suggests that reduction of MGST1 cannot be compensated by other glutathione transferases. In PC12_M cells the total glutathione content was higher by 15-20 %, whereas the GSSG/GSH ratio was lower than in control cells. Moreover, the laminin-dependent migration rate was much faster in control cells than in PC12_M, suggesting some alterations in the metastatic potential of the line with suppressed MGST1. The amount of MAP kinases (p38, JNK, ERK1/2) was elevated in PC12_M cells but their phosphorylation level declined. Microarray analysis showed changed expression of several genes, which may be linked with differentiation and necrosis of PC12_M cells. Our data suggest that MGST1 could be an important regulator of PC12 cells development and might have significant effects on cell growth and proliferation, probably through altered expression of genes with different biological function.
In HsGSTO1, a novel cysteine residue (Cys-32) is located in the active site, an arrangement that is distinct from the prototypical serine and tyrosine residues in the other classes of the GST superfamily [13, 20] . The crystal structure of HsGSTO1 revealed that Cys-32 can form a mixed disulfide bond with the thiol of GSH precisely over the helix axis at the N-terminal region [13] . GSTO1 exhibits a canonical cytosolic GST fold, however, it has unique Nterminal and C-terminal extensions that are not observed in the other GST classes. These two domains of GSTO1 interact to form a distinct structural unit that is crucial for substrate specificity [20] . It is therefore not surprising that GSTO1 has unique enzymatic properties, most significantly thiol transferase (TTase) and dehydroascorbate reductase (DHAR) activities [22, 23] . Activities against 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) or ethacrynic acid (ECA), typical substrates for other classes of GSTs, are low or not detected in GSTO1 [23, 24] .
Typically chemopreventive agents either induce phase II detoxifying enzymes or inhibit the cytochrome P450 enzymes (CYPs) that are required for the metabolism of carcinogens. In this study, we isolated a coumarin compound, isoimperatorin from Poncirus trifoliata Raf., and studied its protective effects against aflatoxin B 1 (AFB1)-induced cytotoxicity in H4IIE cells. Isoimperatorin (>0.3 mM) significantly inhibited the cytotoxic effect of AFB1. CDNB [1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene; glutathine S-transferase (GST) subtype-non-specific] and NBD (7-chloro-4-nitrobenzo-2-oxa-1,3-diazole; GSTa typespecific) assays revealed that isoimperatorin (0.3-3 mM) increased GST activity in a concentration-dependent manner. Western blot analyses using subtype-specific antibodies confirmed that GSTa protein, but not GSTm or GSTp, was induced in cells treated with isoimperatorin. Reporter gene analysis using an antioxidant response element (ARE) containing construct and subcellular fractionation assays revealed that GSTa induction by isoimperatorin is associated with Nrf2/ARE activation. Moreover, ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase assays showed that isoimperatorin (2 mM) completely inhibited 3-methylchoranthrene-inducible CYP1A activity. These results indicate that isoimperatorin from Poncirus trifoliata Raf. possesses a potent hepatoprotective effect against AFB1, presumably through the induction of GSTa and the direct inhibition of CYP1A, and suggest that isoimperatorin should be considered a potential chemopreventive.
GSTs from adult Drosophila melanogaster have been partially purified using three different affinity chromatography media and separated by 2-DE. Nine GSTs have been identified by MALDI-TOF MS. In the absence of special treatments, eight GSTs could be positively identified. These were DmGSTs D1 (the dominant Delta isoform which was present in five protein zones of differing pI) and D3 (and possibly also D5); the Epsilon-class GSTs E3, 6, 7 and 9 and a previously uncharacterised, probable member of the class, CG16936. The Sigma-class DmGSTS1 was prominent. DmGSTD2 was detected only after pretreatment of the flies with Phenobarbital (PhB). Treatment with Paraquat (PQ) led to an increase in the total GST activity, as measured with the substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and 3,4-dichloro-nitrobenzene (DCNB) and an increase in the relative amounts of the D1, D3, E6 and E7 isoforms. PhB treatment led to increases in the relative amounts of the D1, D2, E3, E6, E7 and E9 isoforms detected with a possible depression in the relative amount of GSTS1. CG16936 was unaffected by either pretreatment.
OBJECTIVE ::: Washed platelets have been shown to protect isolated buffer perfused rat hearts from injury and dysfunction following ischaemia-reperfusion. This study was designed to investigate whether platelet glutathione redox cycle contributes to the protective effect of platelets. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Isolated rat hearts were perfused with Krebs-Henseleit buffer alone, buffer containing platelets, or buffer containing platelets pretreated with inhibitors of glutathione redox cycle. All hearts were subjected to 40 min of global ischaemia followed by 30 min of reperfusion. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Following ischaemia and reperfusion, hearts perfused with buffer alone showed a marked reduction in force of cardiac contraction and heart rate, an increase in coronary perfusion pressure and diastolic tone, and a release of creatine kinase in the coronary effluent. Myocardial creatine kinase, superoxide dismutase activity, and glutathione content all fell. Perfusion of hearts with washed platelets provided significant protection from ischaemia-reperfusion related myocardial injury and dysfunction. The cardioprotective effects of platelets were attenuated when they were preincubated with the glutathione redox cycle inhibitors dehydroepiandrosterone, 1,3-bis (2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosurea, or 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Pretreatment of platelets with glutathione redox cycle inhibitors did not affect the platelet mediated preservation of myocardial superoxide dismutase activity. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: Platelet glutathione redox cycle contributes in part to the cardioprotective effects of platelets against ischaemia-reperfusion injury and dysfunction in the isolated rat heart.
The denitrosation of a novel nitrosourea, 1-(2-chloroethyl)-3-[(2-dimethylaminosulfonyl)-ethyl]-1-nitrosoure a, tauromustine (TCNU), has been investigated in liver cytosol from various species and with a pool of cytosolic rat liver glutathione transferases (GSTs). In addition, the denitrosation of related nitrosoureas, 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU) and 1-(2-chloroethyl)-3-cyclohexyl-1-nitrosourea (CCNU) have been investigated. By using radioactive nitrosoureas as substrates and HPLC to detect the denitrosated products, a sensitive assay has been developed. The activities towards additional substrates, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and trans-stilbene oxide (tSBO) were also measured in the various cytosol fractions. The apparent Vmax and Km values for the denitrosation of TCNU in rat liver cytosol were calculated to be 830 pmol/min/mg protein and 8.4 mM respectively. The rate of denitrosation of TCNU was found to be highest in the mouse, followed by the rat and the dog. The induction of GSTs by phenobarbital in rats increased the denitrosation of TCNU similar to the activities found towards CDNB and tSBO as substrates. The highest denitrosation activity by GST was determined towards BCNU, followed by CCNU and TCNU. Our results suggest that the denitrosation of various nitrosoureas via GST may play an important role in the deactivating process occurring in vivo and for the efficacy of nitrosoureas used in chemotherapy.
The ability of ethanol to affect the regional distribution of individual glutathione S-transferase (GST) isoenzymes in rat liver was investigated by analyzing the expression levels in cell lysates obtained from the periportal or perivenous liver region after in situ digitonin perfusion. In control rats, a significant perivenous dominance of GST proteins and activities measured by the substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (broad spectrum), 1, 2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (M1/M2-specific), and 7-chloro-4-nitrobenzo-2-oxa-1,3-diazole (A1/A2-specific) was found. In pair-fed rats exposed to ethanol (36% of total calories) for 2 weeks, all GST activities measured were significantly increased in both acinar zones. However, the relative increase was greater in the perivenous region. The induction of the A1/A2-specific activity was the most pronounced. HPLC analysis revealed for both regions that this increase was largely confined to the A2 subunit, with only minor effects observed on the A1 subunit. At the mRNA level, the constitutive perivenous dominance of both GST A1 and GST A2 expression became more pronounced after ethanol administration. The results demonstrate that long-term ethanol exposure induces individual GST isoenzymes differently and might have a profound effect on xenobiotic-induced regional liver damage.
Previous studies have shown that JS-K (O2-(2,4-dinitrophenyl)1-[(4-ethoxycarbonyl)piperazin-1-yl]diazen-1-ium-1,2-diolate), which belongs to the diazeniumdiolate group of compounds, is a promising anti-cancer agent which is active against human leukemia cells but not normal hematopoietic cells. The uniqueness of JS-K is due to its ability to exploit the defense system of cancer cells against xenobiotics that leads to chemotherapy failure. JS-K consists of two components - a diazeniamdiolate group necessary for the release of nitric oxide (NO) and an arylating ring - and it is unknown which is responsible for the biological effects of the compound. Because treatment with pure NO is impractical, studying the activity of the arylating ring of JS-K in comparison to the entire molecule should help us understand the biological mechanisms of this compound. CDNB (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene), which contains an arylating ring analogous to that of JS-K without the diazeniumdiolate group necessary to release NO, was used to investigate the role of arylation due to the similarity in electrophilicity between CDNB and JS-K. In this study, we used a murine erythroleukemia (MEL) cell line from mice infected with the Friend spleen focus-forming virus. These cells grow as tumors when injected subcutaneously into mice and cause meningeal leukemia when injected intraveneously, providing a unique and convenient small animal model to study the effects of anti-leukemic agents. To determine the in vitro effects of JS-K and CDNB on MEL cells, experiments were performed using several methods, including proliferation and apoptotic assays, DNA-laddering, Western blotting and cell cycle analysis. Our studies indicate that both JS-K and CDNB inhibit proliferation of MEL cells with low IC50 values and induce necrosis and apoptosis by a caspase-dependent mechanism (e.g. PARP and caspase-3 activation). Further studies indicate that both compounds cause DNA damage and disturb the cell cycle. Cell cycle arrest after treatment appears to be due to a block in the activation of the serine kinase Akt, which results in the activation of the transcription factor FoxO3a, which in turn upregulates the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p27, blocking the cell cycle. Although both tested compounds activate apoptosis, cause DNA damage and alter the cell cycle, JS-K is slightly more effective than CDNB. We conclude from these data that the arylating capability of JS-K, in addition to its ability to release NO, is a major contributor to the anticancer effects of this compound in MEL cells. Studies are in progress to determine if JS-K can block the growth of MEL cells in vivo. Citation Format: {Authors}. {Abstract title} [abstract]. In: Proceedings of the 101st Annual Meeting of the American Association for Cancer Research; 2010 Apr 17-21; Washington, DC. Philadelphia (PA): AACR; Cancer Res 2010;70(8 Suppl):Abstract nr 3580.
The glutathione transferase (GST) superfamily plays key roles in the detoxification of various xenobiotics. Here, we report the isolation and characterization of a silkworm protein belonging to a previously reported theta-class GST family. The enzyme (bmGSTT) catalyzes the reaction of glutathione with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 1,2-epoxy-3-(4-nitrophenoxy)-propane, and 4-nitrophenethyl bromide. Mutagenesis of highly conserved residues in the catalytic site revealed that Glu66 and Ser67 are important for enzymatic function. These results provide insights into the catalysis of glutathione conjugation in silkworm by bmGSTT and into the metabolism of exogenous chemical agents.
The glutathione S-transferase enzyme system, which belongs in phase II of detoxification, has been studied in developmental stages of the branchiopod Artemia salina. The highest total activity and specific activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was observed 48 h after hatching. The number of isoenzymes present in A. salina varies between three and four, depending on the developmental stage. The two major isoenzymes, with corresponding isoelectric points of 8.5 and 7.2, were present in all developmental stages, but at a varying rate: as the organism grew older, the alkaline isoenzyme was expressed at a higher rate. The kinetic and molecular characteristics of the enzyme were similar to those of other aquatic organisms. With regards to the kinetic characteristics, significant differences were observed between the two major isoenzymes, and, since the rate of their expression changes as the organism grows, the detoxification potential of the organism varies according to developmental stage.
Pseudomonas sp. CBS3 converted various nitro-aromatic compounds under aerobic resting-cell conditions to the corresponding amino compounds. Mononitro-compounds were reduced to anilines. 1-Chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was reduced via the two possible chloronitroanilines to 4-chloro-1,3-diaminobenzene. In the case of 2,4,6-trinitrotoluene, two monoaminodinitrotoluenes and one diaminomononitrotoluene were obtained. In addition to the reduction, in most cases the amines were partially acetylated. In experiments under an argon atmosphere conversion of the nitro-compounds was as fast as under aerobic conditions. Cells of Pseudomonas sp. CBS3 cultivated on complex medium showed higher nitro-reducing activity than those cultivated on mineral salts medium with 4-chlorobenzoate as substrate, which is normally used as medium for this strain. Several other Pseudomonas species (ATCC 4359, ATCC 23937, ATCC 15005, ATCC 17933) also showed nitro-reducing activities. In crude cell-free extracts of Pseudomonas sp. CBS3 an enzyme catalysing the reduction of nitro-aromatics was detected. The enzyme was inactivated by dialysis and was reactivated by the addition of NADH or NADPH. NADPH was the more efficient co-substrate.
Kinetic results for the non-enzyme-catalysed reaction of glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene are reported. Positive kinetic salt effects are observed in the presence of sodium chloride. The effect is more pronounced at higher temperature. Glutathione also reacts with 1,3,5-trinitrobenzene to form a Meisenheimer complex.
Abstract A novel unsymmetrical diamine monomer containing triaryl imidazole pendant group, 4-[4-(4,5-diphenyl-1H-imidazol-2-yl)phenoxy] benzene-1,3-diamine (DAI), was successfully synthesized via aromatic substitution reaction of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene with 4-(4,5-diphenyl-1H-imidazol-2-yl)phenol, followed by palladium-catalyzed hydrazine reduction. The diamine monomer DAI polymerized with commercial available dianhydrides such as benzophenone tetracarboxylic dianhydride (BTDA), pyromellitic dianhydride (PMDA) and bicyclo[2.2.2]-oct-7-ene-2,3,5,6-tetracarboxylic dianhydride (BCDA) by using two step synthetic methods to obtain corresponding polyimides (PIs). PIs had inherent viscosity of 0.42–0.51 dL/g and exhibited excellent solubility in aprotic polar solvents such as N,N-dimethylacetamide (DMAc), N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone (NMP), N,N-dimethylformamide (DMF), pyridine and methyl sulfoxide (DMSO). PIs showed high glass transition temperatures between 230 and 320 °C, and they were fairly stable up to a temperature above 300 and 450 °C depending on the dianhydride monomer used for the PIs preparation.
Glyoxal, methylglyoxal (MG), and 3-deoxyglucosone (3-DG) are physiological alpha-oxoaldehydes formed by lipid peroxidation, glycation, and degradation of glycolytic intermediates. They are enzymatically detoxified in cells by the cytosolic glutathione-dependent glyoxalase system (glyoxal and MG only) and by NADPH-dependent reductase and NAD(P)+-dependent dehydrogenase. In this study, the changes in the cellular and extracellular concentrations of these alpha-oxoaldehydes were investigated in murine P388D1 macrophages during necrotic cell death induced by median toxic concentrations of hydrogen peroxide and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). Alpha-oxoaldehyde concentrations were determined by derivatization with 1,2-diamino-4,5-dimethoxybenzene. There were relatively small increases in cellular and extracellular glyoxal concentration, except that extracellular glyoxal was decreased with hydrogen peroxide. The cytosolic concentration of 3-DG and the cytosolic and extracellular concentrations of MG, however, increased markedly. Aminoguanidine inhibited alpha-oxoaldehyde accumulation and prevented cytotoxicity induced by hydrogen peroxide and CDNB. The accumulation of glyoxal and MG in toxicant-treated cells was a likely consequence of decreased in situ activity of glyoxalase 1. The effect was marked for MG but not for glyoxal, suggestive of a greater metabolic flux of MG formation than of glyoxal. The accumulation of 3-DG in toxicant-treated cells was probably due to the decreased availability of pyridine nucleotide cofactors for the detoxification of 3-DG. Impairment of alpha-oxoaldehyde detoxification is cytotoxic, and this may contribute to toxicity associated with GSH oxidation and S conjugation in oxidative stress and chemical toxicity, and to chronic pathogenesis associated with diabetes mellitus where there is oxidative stress and the formation of glyoxal, MG, and 3-DG is increased.
OBJECTIVES ::: To perform a systematic functional investigation of different glutathione S-transferase (GST) classes, including GST class Theta (GSTT) member GSTT1-1, in transitional cell carcinoma (TCC) and the surrounding normal uroepithelium of the same individuals. Recently, it was suggested that GSTT1-1 might be an important risk modulator for TCC. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Tumor samples and surrounding normal uroepithelium were obtained from 24 patients with TCC of urinary bladder. The following substrates with differential specificities were used: 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene for overall GST activity; 7-chloro-4-nitrobenzo-2-oxa-1,3-diazole for GST Alpha; 1,2-dichloro-4-nitro-benzene for GST Mu; 4-vinylpyridine for GST Pi 1-1(GSTP1-1); and 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)propane for GSTT1-1. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: GSTP1-1 and GSTT1-1 activities were demonstrated in all uroepithelial and TCC samples, and GST Mu activity was detectable in 11 of 24 patients. In the tumor specimens, significant upregulation of all expressed GST subtypes was observed. The mean GSTP1-1 and GSTT1-1 level in TCC was increased 2-fold and 3.6-fold, respectively, compared with the mean level in the normal uroepithelium (P <0.001). Tumor GSTT1-1 activities correlated statistically significantly with the tumor stage (P <0.05). ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: In tumors and adjacent normal uroepithelium of patients with TCC, three major cytosolic GST classes, Mu, Pi, and Theta, were expressed. Although the GST isoenzyme pattern in TCC was similar to that of the corresponding normal uroepithelium, during cancer progression a clear tendency toward an increase in all the GST subtypes expressed was noted. For the first time, distinct GSTT1-1 activity levels were demonstrated in human uroepithelium, as well as its pronounced upregulation in TCC.
The comparative inhibition of ethacrynic acid (EA) and its known metabolites against glutathione S-transferase (GST) was investigated using human livers procured from kidney donors. EA and all three metabolites of EA had an inhibitory effect against conjugation between 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and glutathione (GSH). The GSH adduct of EA (EA-GSH) was the most potent inhibitor of GSTs; EA-GSH was approximately one order of magnitude more potent than the parent EA, while L-cysteine conjugate of EA (EA-cysteine) and N-acetyl-L-cysteine conjugate of EA (EA-mercapturate) were approximately two orders of magnitude less potent than the parent EA. Further metabolism of EA-GSH conjugate is suggested to be a detoxification process in terms of GST activities.
Abstract To investigate the relative importance of catalase and glutathione in erythrocyte oxidant defense, human and mouse (normal and acatalasemic) erythrocytes were reversibly lysed and resealed in the presence of exogenous catalase or glutathione. This resulted in an increase in intracellular catalase activity or glutathione concentration in the resealed erythrocytes while normal cellular structure, hemoglobin concentration, cell volume, cellular deformability, and adenosine triphosphate concentration were maintained. Resealing alone had no effect on oxidant sensitivity. In human cells, a threefold increase in catalase activity resulted in the maintenance of glutathione levels in response to hydrogen peroxide (H 2 O 2 ) challenge. Reconstitution of congenitally acatalasemic mouse erythrocytes, which were extremely sensitive to even micromolar concentrations of H 2 O 2 with purified catalase resulted in complete protection against H 2 O 2 . Indeed, the catalase-reconstituted acatalasemic cells were less sensitive to H 2 O 2 -mediated damage than were normal, catalase-replete mouse cells. In contrast, alteration of the glutathione status of human and mouse (normal and acatalasemic) cells had no significant effect on oxidant sensitivity. Even a fivefold increase in intracellular glutathione concentration (> 30 micromoles glutathione per gram of hemoglobin) in normal or catalase-deficient (azide-treated or acatalasemic) red blood cells had no protective effect against H 2 O 2 -mediated lipid peroxidation or methemoglobin generation. Similarly, depletion of glutathione by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene also had no effect on erythrocyte H 2 O 2 sensitivity. These results suggest an important role for catalase in protection against H 2 O 2 -mediated damage at physiologic levels and that catalase is as at least as important as glutathione in cellular defense against H 2 O 2 .
An isoenzyme of glutathione S-transferase (adGST) was purified from liver intestine of the seashell (Asaphis dichotoma) by GST-Sepharose 4B affinity chromatography followed by reverse-phase HPLC. The enzyme has a pI value of 4.6 and is composed of two subunits each with a molecular weight of 23kDa. It exhibits different catalytic activities toward the substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 7-chloro-4-nitrobenzo-2-oxa-1,3-diazole, ethacrynic acid, and p-nitrophenyl acetate and, fascinatingly, shows high activity toward CDNB. The amino acid composition of adGST was determined and found to be very similar to the Sloane squid GSTs. N-terminal analysis of the first 15 residues of adGST revealed that it has 73% sequence identity with the pig roundworm GSTs. The adGST shows characteristics similar to those of class sigma GSTs, as was indicated by its substrate specificity, N-terminal amino acid sequence, and amino acid composition.
We followed the expression of several glutathione S-transferase subunits in altered foci, liver neoplasms and metastases produced in male Fischer 344 rats by a modified Solt-Farber protocol, to determine whether components of the resistant phenotype are lost during neoplastic progression. At 6 mo after initiation, altered foci and persistent nodules displayed increased immunohistochemical expression of glutathione S-transferase subunits Yf (π-class), Ya (α-class) and Yb1 (μ-class) in comparison with normal or surrounding liver tissue. However, although most altered foci exhibited little change in glutathione S-transferase Yb2 (μ-class) subunit expression, 5% of Yf-positive foci and nodules were partially or completely deficient in Yb2 expression. At 12 and 18 mo after initiation, most grossly visible hepatocellular tumors retained induced expression of glutathione S-transferase subunits Yf, Ya and Yb1, but 63% of the carcinomas, 88% of the primary metastatic carcinomas and 94% of the pulmonary metastases were deficient in Yb2 expression. These differences in glutathione S-transferase subunit expression were confirmed by quantitative analysis by reverse-phase HPLC of S-hexylglutathione affinity-purified glutathione S-transferases from advanced tumors. Cytosolic glutathione S-transferase activity for trans-4-phenyl-3-buten-2-one in advanced tumors ranged from 42% to 66% of the activity in matched surrounding liver, whereas glutathione S-transferase activities for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene were increased by 140% to 161%. These studies demonstrate that progression of hepatocellular carcinomas in the resistant hepatocyte model of carcinogenesis in which several glutathione S-transferase subunits are induced is associated with the loss of a major constitutive μ-class hepatic glutathione S-transferase. Although the mechanism and role of the reduction or loss of glutathione S-transferase Yb2 during malignant progression are unknown, we propose that loss of glutathione S-transferase Yb2 in some preneoplastic populations of hepatocytes might be conducive to further DNA damage by presently unknown environmental or endogenous compounds that are normally detoxified preferentially by glutathione S-transferase isoenzymes containing this subunit. (Hepatology 1994;20:149-158.)
A third gene encoding glutathione S-transferase (GSTIII) was cloned from the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe. The nucleotide sequence determined was found to contain 2110 base pairs including an open reading frame of 242 amino acids that would encode a protein of a molecular mass of 26,620 Da. The cloned GSTIII gene could be expressed in S. pombe, S. cerevisiae and Escherichia coli cells which gave 1.4-, 2.1-, and 3.0-fold higher GST activity in an assay using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as a substrate, respectively. The cloned GSTIII gene caused higher survivals of S. pombe cells on solid media with cadmium chloride or mercuric chloride. The GSTIII protein has 16% and 18% homologies with the GSTI and GSTII proteins, respectively. To independently monitor the regulation of the GSTIII gene, its 1168 bp upstream region and N-terminal 33 amino acid-coding region was fused into the promoterless beta-galactosidase gene of the shuttle vector YEp357. The synthesis of beta-galactosidase from the fusion plasmid pGY357 was greatly enhanced by cadmium chloride (50 microM), cupric chloride (10 microM), aluminum chloride (5 mM, 10 mM), mercuric chloride (1 microM), and zinc chloride (10 mM). However, the synthesis of beta-galactosidase from the fusion plasmid pGY357 was not affected by superoxide-generating menadione, and o-dinitrobenzene, whereas they could significantly induce the expression of the GSTI and GSTII genes of S. pombe. The overproduced Pap1 inhibited the induction of beta-galactosidase synthesis from the fusion plasmid pGY357 by cadmium chloride, which is opposite to the previously known role of Pap1 in the response to oxidative stress. Our results collectively indicate that the three GST genes of S. pombe are subjected to different regulatory mechanisms. The major role of the GSTIII protein in S. pombe may be the detoxification of various metals.
The glutathione transferase (GST) superfamily plays key roles in the detoxification of various xenobiotics. Here, we report the isolation and characterization of a silkworm protein belonging to a previously reported theta-class GST family. The enzyme (bmGSTT) catalyzes the reaction of glutathione with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 1,2-epoxy-3-(4-nitrophenoxy)-propane, and 4-nitrophenethyl bromide. Mutagenesis of highly conserved residues in the catalytic site revealed that Glu66 and Ser67 are important for enzymatic function. These results provide insights into the catalysis of glutathione conjugation in silkworm by bmGSTT and into the metabolism of exogenous chemical agents.
ily prepared by the reaction of 1-hydroxy benzotriazole (HOBt) with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 2-chloro-5-nitropyridine, in the presence of 2 equivalents of triethylamine (Et 3 N), Scheme 1. The structure of compounds 1 and 2 was confirmed by Elemental analysis, IR and NMR spectroscopy (Exp. section).
Abstract (Na + , K + )ATPase activity of rat liver plasma membranes was evaluated in female rats feeding an ethanol containing diet for 46 days (total ethanol ingested, 59.7 g/100 g body wt). Determinations were performed at the end of ethanol treatment or at various times after stopping treatment. (Na + , K + )ATPase and 5′-nucleotidase activities exhibited a 8- and 1.4-fold decrease, respectively, at the end of ethanol ingestion. In contrast no modifications of Mg 2+ -ATPase activity were observed. There also occurred, in ethanol-treated rats, release of sorbitol dehydrogenase into the blood, fat accumulation in liver cells, and decrease in reduced glutathione (GSH) liver content. A decrease in (Na + , K + )ATPase activity was also found in plasma membranes isolated from hepatocyte suspensions after a 2-hr incubation with 50 m m ethanol or 1 m m acetaldehyde (ACA), in conditions that caused a great fall in hepatocyte GSH content but did not cause cell death. After the cessation of ethanol administration, there occurred a progressive recovery of (Na + , K + )ATPase activity, GSH and triacylglycerol content, and release of sorbitol dehydrogenase. These parameters reached control values 12 hr after ethanol withdrawal. S -Adenosyl- l -methionine (SAM), l -methionine, and N -acetylcysteine (NAC), given to rats during ethanol treatment, prevented the decrease in (Na + , K + )ATPase activity and GSH content. They also reduced steatosis and liver necrosis. The efficiency of these compounds decreased in this order: SAM, methionine, NAC. SAM accelerated the recovery of all parameters studied after ethanol withdrawal, and also protected (Na + , K + )ATPase activity and GSH content of isolated hepatocytes from the deleterious effect of ethanol. These SAM effects were prevented by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, a compound which depletes cell GSH. Treatment of isolated hepatocytes with [ 35 S]SAM led to the synthesis of labeled GSH. The total amount and specific activity of labeled GSH underwent a significant increase, in the presence of 2 m m ethanol or 0.5 m m ACA, which indicates a marked stimulation of GSH synthesis by ethanol and ACA. These data indicate that ethanol intoxication may inhibit (Na + , K + )ATPase activity; an effect that does not seem to depend on cell necrosis. SAM, methionine, and NAC exert various degrees of protection toward ethanol-induced cell injury, which are related to the efficiency of these compounds in maintaining a high GSH pool.
Abstract This article describes application of normal mediatorless cyclic voltammetry and UV-visible spectroscopy to study the Glutathione S-tranferase (GST) catalyzed reaction of reduced glutathione(GSH) with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene(CDNB) in two solvents methanol and ethanol, and influence of pyrethroid cypermethrin on it. The course of the reaction between CDNB and GSH in presence of GST differs in the two solvents, viz., methanol and ethanol. Unlike the case when ethanol was used as the solvent, in methanol GSH got transformed to an electro active state under the influence of electrode polarization. This electro active intermediate undergoes oxidation at 0.3 V, sufficiently stable (more than two hours) and reacts with CDNB to form UV active but electro inactive final product. The same electro active intermediate is also formed by non-electrochemical process in presence of CDNB in methanol and the formation is catalyzed by GST. The said reaction is quantitatively affected by cypemethrin. A 25 ppb cypermethrin solution can suppress completely the cyclic voltammetric peak as well as the UVpeak obtained from a 1:1 millimolar mixture of GSH and CDNB in presence of 20 μL (0.02 mg) of GST. Based on this, an electrochemical method for quantification of cypermethrin has been proposed that can detect cypermethrin down to 2 ppb.The work has opened up new possibilities for electrochemical study of detoxification processes carried out by GSH.
Nitrosocimetidine (NC) and 1-methyl-2-nitro-1-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG) are closely related N-nitrosamidines. NC is the nitrosated derivative of cimetidine (Tagamet), an orally administered compound used extensively in the treatment of gastric ulcers. MNNG is a potent carcinogen capable of initiating tumors close to the site of administration and used experimentally to produce stomach cancer. It has become evident that the primary metabolic fate of both of these agents is denitrosation. We have discovered an activity in the cytosol fraction of hamster liver which is capable of denitrosating these nitrosamidines with an efficiency approaching 100%. The activity is heat sensitive and requires reduced glutathione as a cofactor. Inhibition of the denitrosating activity with compounds which inhibit in parallel the conjugation of glutathione with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) provides evidence that the activity is glutathione transferase. One molecule of reduced glutathione is consumed in each denitrosation event. Nitrite is formed as denitrosation proceeds with a yield equivalent to 25-50% of the denitrosated product produced. Glutathione disulfide is a minor reaction product, representing 3% of the denitrosation product yield in the MNNG case and 12% in the NC case. Thus far in our survey of N-nitrosamines, N-nitrosamides and N-nitrosamidines, only the nitrosamidines appear to be vulnerable to the cytosolic denitrosating activity. In an attempt to evaluate the importance of the glutathione-dependent reaction in the intact hamster, we have depleted glutathione by pretreatment with the commonly used agents diethyl maleate (DEM) and L-buthionine-S,R-sulfoximine (L-BSO). Nitroso compound was administered i.v. and the circulating blood levels of intact and denitrosated compound 5 min after dosing quantified. NC- and MNNG-derived methylation of organ DNA was also monitored. Pretreatment had no effect on the cytosolic denitrosating or CDNB-conjugating activities. L-BSO pretreatment had no apparent effect on the denitrosative metabolism of NC or MNNG. With DEM pretreatment we obtained clear indications of a decreased rate of denitrosation and observed a 10-fold increase in MNNG-derived liver DNA methylation. The differential effects of these pretreatments are taken as an indication that DEM-sensitive processes other than those requiring glutathione dominate N-nitrosamidine denitrosation in the hamster.
We investigated the effects of several xenobiotics, including antimicrobial agents and general stress factors such as starvation, heat and osmotic shock, on the modulation of expression of Proteus mirabilis glutathione S-transferase B1-1 (PmGST B1-1). The level of expression of PmGST B1-1 was established by both Western- and Northern-blot experiments. Our results show that several compounds can modulate expression of PmGST B1-1. The level of PmGST B1-1 increased when bacterial cells were exposed to a variety of stresses such as 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, H(2)O(2), fosfomycin or tetracycline. A knock-out gst B gene was also constructed using the suicide vector pKNOCKlox-Ap. Successful inactivation of the wild-type gene was confirmed by PCR, DNA sequence analysis and Western blotting. Under normal culture conditions, this mutant was viable and displayed no significant phenotypic differences compared with the wild-type. However, viability tests revealed that the null mutant was more sensitive to oxidative stress in the form of H(2)O(2) and to several antimicrobial drugs when compared with the wild-type. These results suggest that PmGST B1-1 has an active role in the protection against oxidative stress generated by H(2)O(2) and it appears to be involved in the detoxification of antimicrobial agents.
Abstract The multigene family of cytosolic glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) consists of four classes (Alpha, Mu, Pi, and Theta), all involved in the detoxication of reactive electrophiles. The human Mu class GSTs consist of at least four expressed isozyme subunits, GST M1, GST M2, GST M3, and GST M4, which have 70-90% amino acid sequence identity. The gene and cDNA sequences for GST M4 have been determined recently (K. E. Comstock, K. J. Johnson, D. Rifenbery, and W. D. Henner, J. Biol. Chem. (1993) 268, 16958-16965). Cloning of GST M4 cDNA into an Escherichia coli expression system permitted the production of the corresponding protein. The enzyme was purified and shown to have a relatively low specific activity with the standard GST substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (1.4 ± 0.2 μmol min −1 mg −1 protein), but an activity equivalent to other Mu class enzymes with other tested substrates. The protein forms functional dimers composed of subunits with a M r of approximately 26,400. A detailed comparison of the activity with various substrates and inhibitors was performed between GST M4-4 and other human Mu class GSTs, GST M1a-1a, GST M2-2, and GST M3-3, produced in bacterial expression systems. Despite the high level of amino acid sequence identity, the enzymatic properties of these enzymes were quite different. Comparisons with the crystallographic structure of a homologous rat GST, GST 3-3, indicate that a number of the nonconserved amino acid residues can be assigned to the putative active site of GST M4-4. This suggests that diversification in the evolution of these genes has occurred primarily in the substrate binding regions to cope with an increasing variety of foreign compounds.
The expression of glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity in Festuca arundinacea was investigated in response to the following herbicide safeners: benoxacor, cloquintocet-mexyl, fenchlorazol-ethyl, fenclorim, fluxofenim and oxabetrinil. All the above compounds enhanced the GST activity tested towards the “model” substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). Assays of GST activity towards the herbicides terbuthylazine (N 2-tert-butyl-6-chloro-N 4-ethyl-1,3,5-triazine-2,4-diamine) and butachlor (N-butoxymethyl-2-chloro-2′,6′-diethylacetanilide) as substrates also showed the ability of the safeners to enhance the enzyme activity towards both these herbicides, with the exception of cloquintocet-mexyl for the enzyme activity towards butachlor. As a consequence of the above effects at a macro-scale level, decreased herbicide accumulation and persistence were ascertained in response to the addition of the safener benoxacor to both terbuthylazine and butachlor treatments. These results are discussed in terms of ...
Abstract A generic method for the detection of covalent adducts to the cysteine-34 residue of human serum albumin (HSA) has been developed, based on an on-line combination of immunoaffinity chromatography for selective sample pre-treatment, solution phase digestion, liquid chromatography and tandem mass spectrometry. Selective anti-HSA antibodies immobilized on agarose were used for sample pre-concentration and purification of albumin from the chemically produced alkylated HSA. After elution, HSA and HSA adducts are mixed with pronase and directed to a reaction capillary kept at a digestion temperature of 70 °C. The digestion products were trapped on-line on a C18 SPE cartridge. The peptides were separated on a reversed-phase column using a gradient of organic modifier and subsequently detected using tandem mass spectrometry. Modified albumin samples consisted of synthetically alkylated HSA by the reactive metabolite of acetaminophen, N -acetyl- p -benzoquinoneimine (NAPQI), and using the alkylating agent 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as reference. The resulting mixture of alkylated versus non-modified albumin has been applied to the on-line system, and alkylation of HSA is revealed by the detection of the modified marker tetra-peptide glutamine–cysteine–proline–phenylalanine (QCPF) adducts NAPQI-QCPF and CDNB-QCPF. Detection of alkylated species was enabled by the use of data comparison algorithms to distinguish between unmodified and modified HSA samples. The in-solution digestion proved to be a useful tool for enabling fast (less than 2 min) and reproducible on-line digestion of HSA. A detection limit of 1.5 μmol/L of modified HSA could be obtained by applying 10 μL of NAPQI-HSA sample.
Abstract New unsymmetrical diamine monomer containing triaryl imidazole pendent group, 4-[4-(4,5-diphenyl-1 H -imidazol-2-yl)phenoxy]-1,3-benzenediamine, was synthesized via aromatic substitution reaction of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene with 4-(4,5-diphenyl-1 H -imidazol-2-yl)phenol, followed by palladium-catalyzed hydrazine reduction. This new monomer was further confirmed by FT-IR, 1 H NMR and 13 C NMR. Novel polyamides having pendant triaryl imidazole group were prepared by the phosphorylation polycondensation of four commercially aromatic dicarboxylic acids with the prepared diamine. Inherent viscosities of polyamides were in the range 0.42–0.53 dL/g indicating formation of medium molecular weight polymers. Polyamides exhibited glass-transition temperature ( T g ) in the range 236–265 °C. These polymers are essentially amorphous and were soluble in polar aprotic solvents such as DMF, NMP, DMAc. The 10% weight loss temperatures in air atmosphere, measured by TGA were in the range 350–373 °C indicating their good thermal stabilities.
The kinetic profile of the SNAr reaction of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene with n-butylamine and piperidine in AOT/n-hexane/water reverse micelles were investigated as a function of variables such as AOT and amine concentration and the amount of water dispersed in the reverse micelles, Wo = [H2O]/[AOT]. The reactions in the micellar medium are faster than in the pure solvent. The pseudo-first order rate constants of the reactions go through a maximum when the AOT concentration is increased. Micellar interface saturation and no further micellar catalysis occurs at c.a. 0.1M of AOT. At higher AOT concentration dilution of the reactants in the micelles is the responsible of the rate decrease. In micellar medium a significant lost in the catalysis is observed compare with pure n-hexane. Thus, the reactions effectively take place at the interface of the aggregates. The kinetic behavior can be quantitatively explained taking into account the distribution of the substrate and the nucleophile between the bulk solvent and the micelle interface. A plausible mechanism to explain the results is proposed. Both the reactants distribution constants, between the micellar pseudo-phase and organic solvent, and the intrinsic second-order rate coefficients of SNAr reactions in the interface were evaluated.
Abstract The redox-sensitive transcription factor NF-κB mediates the expression of genes involved in inflammation and cell survival. Thioredoxin reductase-1 (TR1) and its substrate thioredoxin-1 act together to reduce oxidized cysteine residues within the DNA-binding domain of NF-κB and promote maximal DNA-binding activity in vitro. It is not clear, however, if NF-κB is regulated via this mechanism within living cells. The purpose of this study was to determine the mechanism of NF-κB modulation by TR1 in cells stimulated with the inflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF). In both control cells and cells depleted of TR1 activity through chemical inhibition or siRNA knockdown, TNF stimulation resulted in degradation of the cytoplasmic NF-κB inhibitor IκB-α and translocation of NF-κB to the nucleus. Similarly, the DNA-binding activity and redox state of NF-κB were unaffected by TR1 depletion. In contrast, NF-κB-mediated gene expression was markedly inhibited in cells lacking TR1 activity, suggesting that the transactivation potential of NF-κB is sensitive to changes in TR1 activity. Consistent with this concept, phosphorylation of the transactivation domain of NF-κB was inhibited in the presence of curcumin. Surprisingly, another TR1 inhibitor, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, had no effect, and siRNA knockdown of TR1 actually increased phosphorylation at this site. These results demonstrate that TR1 activity controls the transactivation potential of NF-κB and that more than one mechanism may mediate this effect.
The TEF4 gene of the non-saccharomyces yeast Yarrowia lipolytica encodes an EF1Bgamma protein with structural similarity to the glutathione transferases (GSTs). This 1203bp gene was cloned, over-expressed in Escherichia coli, and the recombinant protein characterized. DNA sequencing of the cloned gene agreed with the recently completed Y. lipolytica genome and showed 100% identity to a previously reported 30-residue N-terminal sequence for a 110kDa Y. lipolytica GST, except that it encoded two additional N-terminal residues (N-Met-Ser-). The recombinant protein (subunit M(r) 52kDa) was found not to possess GST activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Partial tryptic digestion released two fragments of M(r) 22 and 18kDa, which we interpret as N- and C-terminal domains. Homology modeling confirmed that the N-terminal domain of Y. lipolytica TEF4 encodes a GST-like protein.
Abstract Glutathione S -transferases have been partially purified from five strains of house fly of defined resistance to insecticides. Apparent purification factors of 1.8–25 were obtained, the degree of purification depending on the assay substrate employed. Yields of up to 100% were obtained when 3,4-dichloronitrobenzene was used as substrate but with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate the yields were of the order of 20–30%. Qualitative analysis of the proteins in these preparations indicated a high degree of similarity between the Cornell and Hirokawa strains and also a resemblance between the Fc and Rutgers strain. In the Cornell and Hirokawa strains, the bulk of the enzyme activity is attributed to two proteins (constituting a major fraction of the protein in the extracts) which appear to be of different isoelectric point from the proteins associated with enzyme activity in the Rutgers, Fc, and CSMA strains. A minor component in the Hirokawa and Cornell preparations appeared to correspond to the major catalytic protein in the Rutgers extract. On the basis of the above data, it is proposed that the various strains may possess a multiplicity of GSH S -transferases, common to all, individual proteins being present to varying extents in the different strains.
The ability of tumor promoters to suppress the development of contact hypersensitivity (CHS) was assessed by the mouse ear swelling assay. Application of the complete or second stage tumor promoters phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate (PMA, 2 μg), croton oil (1%), benzoyl peroxide (20 mg), mezerein (2 μg), or phorbol-12-retinoate-13-acetate (PRA, 2 μg) to the abdominal surface of CF-1 female mice for 1 week (three treatments) prior to the sensitization of the same location with 0.5% 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB) resulted in a 50% suppression (p <0.05) of the CHS response to DNCB. The first stage tumor promoters 4-O-Me-PMA (80 μg), calcium ionophore A23187 (80 μg), hydrogen peroxide (15%) and the non-promoting analogs phorbol-12,13-diacetate (PDA, 20 μg), phorbol (80 μg) or acetone did not suppress the response. The suppression of the development of CHS caused by PMA was dependent on the promoter being applied at the site of induction and was inhibited by application of the phospholipase A2 inhibitor dibromoacetophenone (100 μg), the lipoxygenase inhibitor nordihydroguaiaretic acid (NDGA, 100 μg), or the antiinflammatory steroid fluocinolone acetonide (2 μg). Application of PMA or mezerein 24 h prior to challenge with DNCB, to the ears of mice previously sensitized with DNCB resulted in a significant enhancement of the ear swelling response by 60% and 110%, respectively, compared with controls. The results demonstrate that tumor promoters suppress the development of CHS, and suggest the possibility that second stage promotion may involve suppression of the development of a tumor specific immune response.
Abstract Enzyme activities of phase I and phase II of the hepatic detoxication system were investigated in two species of fish from the Ross Sea in Antarctica. The fish had extremely low phase I enzyme (BPMO and aldrin epoxidase). The reductase regenerating enzyme activities were comparable to those found in fish of temperate seas. Transferases of cytosol showed highest activity in the conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and little or no conjugation of other substrates. The GSSG reductase and the glutathione transferase with peroxidase activity (CuOOH substrate) were low; the Sedependent glutathione peroxidase activity was not detectable. Interspecific differences were found for most of the enzymes tested.
Increases of up to 500% in the rate of reaction of 2,4-dinitrobenzenesulphenyl bromide with cyclohexene in carbon tetrachloride solution have been obtained by the addition of 1-substituted 2,4-dinitrobenzenes. The relative catalytic activity of these compounds is 2,4-dinitroanisole > 2-bromocyclohexyl 2,4-dinitrophenyl sulphide (reaction product) > 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. The greater increase in rate obtained with added product than with an equivalent excess of sulphenyl bromide provides an explanation for the steady increase in the value of the observed second-order velocity constant as the reaction proceeds. A rate equation is proposed for the reaction, and the mechanism discussed.
Patients with Barrett’s esophagus, wherein squamous epithelium has been replaced by columnar epithelium, have an increased risk for developing esophageal adenocarcinoma as compared to the general population. Glutathione S-transferase (GST), a family of detoxification enzymes consisting of class α , µ, π, and θ isoforms, is involved in detoxification of carcinogens and low levels of these enzymes correlated with high cancer risk. We have now compared GST enzyme activity, GST isoenzyme composition and glutathione (GSH) content of Barrett ’s mucosa with that of adjacent normal squamous epithelium. Biopsy specimens of 98 patients with Barrett ’s esophagus were taken from both Barrett’s and adjacent normal squamous epithelium. GST enzyme activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was measured, and GST isoenzyme levels were determined by densitometrical analyses of western blots after immunodetection with monoclonal antibodies. Total GSH content was determined by high-performance liquid chromatography after conjugation with monobromobimane. Wilcoxon’s signed rank test and Spearman correlation analyses were used for statistical evaluation. As compared with adjacent normal squamous epithelium, GST enzyme activity in Barrett’s epithelium was reduced by 35%, and GST µ, GST π and GSH levels were reduced by 24%, 30%, and 63%, respectively. However, the minor GST α and GST θ θ θ θ levels were higher in Barrett’s epithelium (by 625% and 33%, respectively). High levels of GSH and GSTs in general are correlated with protection against cellular or cytogenetic damage. The observed reduction in GSTs and GSH in Barrett’s epithelium may therefore contribute to the increased cancer risk in this tissue.
We investigated the effects of several xenobiotics, including antimicrobial agents and general stress factors such as starvation, heat and osmotic shock, on the modulation of expression of Proteus mirabilis glutathione S-transferase B1-1 (PmGST B1-1). The level of expression of PmGST B1-1 was established by both Western-and Northern-blot experiments. Our results show that several compounds can modulate expression of PmGST B1-1. The level of PmGST B1-1 increased when bacterial cells were exposed to a variety of stresses such as 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, H 2 O 2 , fosfomycin or tetracycline. A knock-out gstB gene was also constructed using the suicide vector pKNOCKlox-Ap. Successful inactivation of the wild-type gene was confirmed by PCR, DNA sequence analysis and Western blotting. Under normal culture conditions, this mutant was viable and displayed no significant phenotypic differences compared with the wildtype. However, viability tests revealed that the null mutant was more sensitive to oxidative stress in the form of H 2 O 2 and to several antimicrobial drugs when compared with the wild-type. These results suggest that PmGST B1-1 has an active role in the protection against oxidative stress generated by H 2 O 2 and it appears to be involved in the detoxification of antimicrobial agents.
The kinetic profile of the S N Ar reaction of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene with n-butylamine and piperidine in AOT/n-hexane/water reverse micelles were investigated as a function of variables such as AOT and amine concentration and the amount of water dispersed in the reverse micelles,
Patients with Barrett's esophagus, wherein squamous epithelium has been replaced by columnar epithelium, have an increased risk for developing esophageal adenocarcinoma as compared to the general population. Glutathione S-transferase (GST), a family of detoxification enzymes consisting of class α α α α, µ µ µ µ, π π π π, and θ θ θ θ isoforms, is involved in detoxification of carcinogens and low levels of these enzymes correlated with high cancer risk. We have now compared GST enzyme activity, GST isoenzyme composition and glutathione (GSH) content of Barrett's mucosa with that of adjacent normal squamous epithelium. Biopsy specimens of 98 patients with Barrett's esophagus were taken from both Barrett's and adjacent normal squamous epithelium. GST enzyme activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was measured, and GST isoenzyme levels were determined by densitometrical analyses of western blots after immunodetection with monoclonal antibodies. Total GSH content was determined by high-performance liquid chromatography after conjugation with monobromobimane. Wilcoxon's signed rank test and Spearman correlation analyses were used for statistical evaluation. As compared with adjacent normal squamous epithelium, GST enzyme activity in Barrett's epithelium was reduced by 35%, and GST µ µ µ µ, GST π π π π and GSH levels were reduced by 24%, 30%, and 63%, respectively. However, the minor GST α α α α and GST θ θ θ θ levels were higher in Barrett's epithelium (by 625% and 33%, respectively). High levels of GSH and GSTs in general are correlated with protection against cellular or cytogenetic damage. The observed reduction in GSTs and GSH in Barrett's epithelium may therefore contribute to the increased cancer risk in this tissue.
Using inhibitors to manipulate the redox states of particular sites and prevent superoxide generation from others, at least ten different sites of superoxide/H 2 O 2 production in the electron transport chain and associated enzymes (Krebs cycle, β-oxidation etc.) have been identified in mammalian mitochondria (Fig. 1 ). Abbreviations: I F , flavin site of complex I; I Q , quinone-binding site of complex I; II F , flavin site of complex II; III Qo , quinol oxidation site of complex III; CDNB, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene; E h , redox potential; ETF, electron transferring flavoprotein; ETF:QOR, ETF:ubiquinone oxidoreductase; mGPDH, mitochondrial glycerol 3-phosphate dehydrogenase; OGDH, 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase; PDH, pyruvate dehydrogenase; Q, ubiquinone; QH 2 , ubiquinol; ROS, reactive oxygen species.
Abstract Glutathione S-transferase cGSTM1-1, an avian class-mu enzyme with high sequence identity with rGSTM3-3, was expressed heterologously in Escherichia coli . The three-dimensional structure of this protein that co-crystallized with an inhibitor, S-hexylglutathione, was determined by the molecular replacement method and refined to 1.94 A resolution. The three-dimensional structure and the folding topology of the dimeric cGSTM1-1 closely resembles those of other class-mu GSTs. The bound inhibitor, S-hexylglutathione, orients in disparate directions in the two subunits. The combined space occupied by the hexyl moiety of the inhibitors overlaps with that reported for rGSTM1-1 co-crystallized with (9 S,10 S)-9-(S-glutathionyl)-10-hydroxy-9,10-dihydrophenanthrene. Conformational differences at a flexible loop (residue 35 to 40) were also observed between the crystal structures of cGSTM1-1 and rGSTM1-1. cGSTM1-1 has the highest epoxidase activity among all the class-mu enzymes reported. Tyr115, has been identified as a residue that participates in the epoxidase activity of class-mu glutathione S-transferase and is conserved in cGSTM1-1. The epoxidase and trans -4-phenyl-3-buten-2-one conjugating activity of cGSTM1-1 are decreased drastically but not abolished by replacing Tyr115 with phenylalanine. The specificity constant of the cGSTM1-1(Y115F) mutant, with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate, is 15-fold higher than that of the wild-type enzyme.
Liver parenchymal cells (hepatocytes) of human organ donors were isolated using a two-step collagenase perfusion technique. The average viability of the freshly isolated liver parenchymal cells, as judged by trypan blue exclusion, was 82% (SD = 7%; n = 6). The inter-individual differences in the determined enzyme activities were less than a factor of 7.5, despite the different sexes and ages of the donors. Freshly isolated parenchymal cells (PC) were cryopreserved using a computer-controlled freezing protocol. After thawing, cryopreserved cells had a mean viability of 57% (SD = 18%; n = 6). The activities of xenobiotic metabolizing enzymes in freshly isolated and cryopreserved cells were compared using PC from two donors. The enzyme activities of phenol sulfotransferase, 1-naphthol UDP-glucuronosyltransferase and microsomal epoxide hydrolase were well maintained after thawing (87-117% of activities in freshly isolated cells), whereas the activities of glutathione S-transferase, monitored with the broad spectrum substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, and the major broad spectrum cytosolic epoxide hydrolase were moderately but markedly reduced after cryopreservation (34-64% and 45-89% of levels in fresh cells, respectively). The decrease of both activities was dependent on the viability after thawing. When cryopreserved cells were purified by a Percoll centrifugation after thawing, the viability was increased from 62 to 92% for cells from one of the donors and from 88 to 98% for PC for the other donor. Subsequently the activity of glutathione S-transferase in Percoll-purified PC from the two donors was increased to 71 and 96% of levels in freshly isolated cells. It is concluded that the use of cryopreserved liver parenchymal cells of humans and other species represents a valuable tool in predicting which animal species best represents humans in hepatic metabolism and therefore should be the preferred species for investigations of metabolism and metabolism-dependent toxicities.
This study investigated the catalytic activities of hepatic glutathione S-transferase (GST) isoenzymes isolated from CD-1 mice toward two activated alkenals of toxicological relevance: trans,trans-muconaldehyde (MA), a putative myelotoxic metabolite of benzene, and trans-4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (HNE), a highly reactive lipid peroxidation product. The activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was also determined. Four isoenzymes with pI values of 9.8, 8.7, 6.4, and 5.7 were each isolated from male and female mice. The isoenzymes with pI values of 8.7 and 6.4 are pi and mu class GSTs, respectively, whereas the pI 9.8 and 5.7 GSTs are both alpha class isoenzymes. CDNB activity was greatest in the pi (pI 8.7) isoenzyme of both sexes. In addition, the CDNB activity of the pi (pI 8.7) isoenzyme from males was markedly greater than the corresponding GST from female mouse liver. In contrast to CDNB, both MA and HNE were better substrates for the acidic alpha (pI 5.7) and mu (pI 6.4) GSTs, whereas minimal activity toward either alkenal was detected in the pi (pI 8.7) and alpha (pI 9.8) isoenzymes. Maximum activity toward MA and HNE was exhibited by the alpha (pI 5.7) isoenzyme of both sexes. The level of HNE activity observed with the alpha (pI 5.7) isoenzyme was five- to sixfold greater than that reported previously for any mouse GST isoenzyme. Moreover, the specific activities of the female alpha (pI 5.7) isoenzyme toward both HNE and MA were markedly greater than those of the corresponding isoenzyme from males. A similar gender-specific difference was noted in the activity of the mu (pI 6.4) isoenzyme toward HNE, but not toward MA. These results show that both MA and HNE are substrates for the alpha (pI 5.7) and mu (pI 6.4) GSTs of murine liver, with maximum activity toward both activated alkenals exhibited by the alpha (pI 5.7) isozyme. In addition, evidence is presented that demonstrates a female-dominant sex difference in the activity of the alpha (pI 5.7) isoenzyme toward MA and HNE, which contrasts sharply with the male-dominant activity of pi class GSTs toward CDNB. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that alpha and mu class GSTs are critical detoxication enzymes in female mouse liver, whereas pi-class GST isozymes predominate in the liver of male mice.
An analytical capillary isotachophoretic method has been applied for the quantitative assay of reduced glutathione (GSH) conjugates produced by the cytosolic enzyme GSH S-transferase. The donor molecule GSH in reduced and oxidized (GSSG) forms and the GSH conjugates of at least two electrophilic acceptors can be assayed in a single analysis. This technique also permits the quantitative assay of further metabolites of GSH conjugates including mercapturic acids. The total analysis time was of the order of 30 min. The sensitivity of the method is sufficient for the accurate detection of 0.15 nmol GSH conjugate of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and p-nitrobenzyl chloride, 0.2 nmol GSH conjugate of 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)-propane and 0.15 nmol GSH. The present method is simple, accurate and does not require radioactively labelled compounds or separate analytical procedures.
To complete a studyaimed at investigating the pattern of the basal activities of liver xenobioticmetabolizing enzymes in major and minor species intended for meat production, microsomal carboxylesterases and some conjugating enzyme activities were determined and compared in liver preparations from horses, cattle, pigs, rabbits and broiler chicks, using the rat as a reference species. Horses and broiler chicks exhibited a lower microsomal carboxylesterase activity towards indophenyl or p-nitrophenyl acetate than that measured in cattle or pig subfractions. Among food-producing species, the rate of glucuronidation of either 1-naphthol or p-nitrophenol was in the order pigs approximately rabbits > horses >> cattle > broiler chicks. The widest variations were observed in the acetylation capacity towards p-aminobenzoic acid or isoniazid, which in rabbits was 3-fold to 11-fold greater than that displayed by any other examined species; low but measurable activities were found in equine and bovine cytosols. The activity of cytosolic glutathione S-transferase (GST) accepting the general substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was significantly higher in rabbits, horses and pigs than in rat, broiler chicks and cattle. Finally, an uneven pattern of activity towards the other tested GST substrates - 3,4-dichloronitrobenzene, ethacrinic acid or 1,2-epoxybutane - was observed, possibly reflecting the species-related expression of different GST classes; in this respect, the conjugative capacity displayed by horses was higher than or comparable to that found in the other food-producing species.
Flavonoids are known to modulate catalytic activity and expression of various enzymes. Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are the important biotransformation enzymes defending cells against potentially toxic xenobiotics. Therefore, the modulation of GST activity may influence detoxification of xenobiotics. The aim of this study was to evaluate the in vitro inhibitory activity of several dietary flavonoids towards purified equine liver cytosolic GST. Pure GST was incubated in the presence or absence of flavonoids (10 nM-100 µM), its activity was assayed using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as a substrate, and half maximal inhibitory concentrations (IC(50)) were determined. The obtained results were confirmed by GST activity staining of native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE) gels. For the most potent inhibitor, the inhibition kinetics study was performed. From 24 flavonoids tested, the most potent GST inhibitor was gallocatechin gallate (IC(50) = 1.26 µM). The inhibition kinetics of this compound followed noncompetitive mechanism versus both glutathione (K(i) = 35.9 µM) and CDNB (K(i) = 34.1 µM). The inhibitory potency of different flavonoids for GST activity depended mainly on the pattern of hydroxylation and number of hydroxyl groups in the ring B. Especially, pyrogallol-type catechins with 3-OH group esterified with gallic acid showed strong potential to inhibit GST in vitro.
Plasmid-borne resistance to fosfomycin in bacteria is due to modification of the antibiotic molecule by a glutathione S-transferase that catalyzes the formation of a covalent bond between the sulfhydryl residue of the cysteine in glutathione and the C-1 of fosfomycin. This reaction results in opening of the epoxide ring of the antibiotic to form an inactive adduct, the structure of which was confirmed by nuclear magnetic resonance. Dialyzed extracts prepared from resistant Escherichia coli strains were unable to modify fosfomycin unless exogenous glutathione was added to the reaction mixtures. Similarly, mutants defective in glutathione biosynthesis were susceptible to fosfomycin, despite harboring a resistance plasmid. Extracts of resistant but not susceptible strains could join glutathione to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, confirming the nature of the enzymatic activity. Adduct formation appeared to be specific for glutathione: none of the other thiols tested (cysteine, N-acetylcysteine, and dithiothreitol) could modify fosfomycin.
Rat liver glutathione S-transferase 3-3 (GST, EC 2.5.1.18), a triple mutant with all three cysteine residues replaced with serine (CallS) and a quadruple mutant with a Tyr-115 to phenylalanine substitution on CallS (CallSY115F) were overexpressed in Escherichia coli under the control of a phoA promoter. Using this system, we obtained over 35 mg of fully active pure protein/litre of cell medium. GST 3-3 and CallS mutant were modified with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), a model substrate for the enzyme, in the absence of GSH. Dinitrophenol, but not S-methylglutathione, inhibits this process. The dinitrophenyl groups are readily removed from the enzyme with GSH, but much more slowly with dithiothreitol. Results from peptide mapping and amino acid sequence analyses indicate that CDNB modifies the cysteine residues and Tyr-115 on wild-type GST 3-3, but only Tyr-115 on CallS. In addition, CDNB cannot modify the CallSY115F mutant. We propose that Tyr-115 is located at or near the H-site of GST 3-3.
We herein report an experimental and theoretical study on preferential solvation effects for the reactions of 1-fluoro and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene towards morpholine in acetonitrile, water and mixtures of them of varying compositions. A detailed kinetic study opens the possibility of analyzing preferential solvation and reaction rates. The kinetic study was complemented with an exploration of the potential energy surface in order to analyze the nature of the molecular interactions. For the fluorine derivative, this analysis reveals that the solvation of the TS in the mode TS1F-water/MeCN clearly outweighs the solvation of TS1F-MeCN/water, thereby suggesting that there is preferential solvation in favor of the aqueous phase.
Microsomal glutathione S-transferase 2 (MGST2) is a 17 kDa trimeric integral membrane protein homologous to leukotriene C4 synthase (LTC4S). MGST2 has been suggested to catalyze the biosynthesis of the pro-inflammatory mediator leukotriene C4 (LTC4) in cells devoid of LTC4S. A detailed biochemical study of MGST2 is critical for the understanding of its cellular function and potential role as an LTC4-producing enzyme. Here we have characterized the substrate specificity and catalytic properties of purified MGST2 by steady-state and pre-steady-state kinetic experiments. In comparison with LTC4S, which has a catalytic efficiency of 8.7 × 10(5) M(-1) s(-1), MGST2, with a catalytic efficiency of 1.8 × 10(4) M(-1) s(-1), is considerably less efficient in producing LTC4. However, the two enzymes display a similar KM(LTA4) of 30-40 μM. While LTC4S has one activated glutathione (GSH) (forming a thiolate) per enzyme monomer, the MGST2 trimer seems to display only third-of-the-sites reactivity for thiolate activation, which in part would explain its lower catalytic efficiency. Furthermore, MGST2 displays GSH-dependent peroxidase activity of ∼0.2 μmol min(-1) mg(-1) toward several lipid hydroperoxides. MGST2, but not LTC4S, is efficient in catalyzing conjugation of the electrophilic substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and the lipid peroxidation product 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal with GSH. Using stopped-flow pre-steady-state kinetics, we have characterized the full catalytic reaction of MGST2 with CDNB and GSH as substrates, showing an initial rapid equilibrium binding of GSH followed by thiolate formation. Burst kinetics for the CDNB-GSH conjugation step was observed only at low GSH concentrations (thiolate anion formation becoming rate-limiting under these conditions). Product release is rapid and does not limit the overall reaction. Therefore, in general, the chemical conjugation step is rate-limiting for MGST2 at physiological GSH concentrations. MGST2 and LTC4S exhibit distinct catalytic and mechanistic properties, reflecting adaptation to broad and specific physiological functions, respectively.
The bioactivity of endothelium-derived nitric oxide (NO) is an important component of vascular homeostasis that is sensitive to intracellular redox status. Because glutathione (GSH) is a major determinant of intracellular redox state, we sought to define its role in modulating endothelial NO bioactivity. In porcine aortic endothelial cells (PAECs), we depleted intracellular GSH (>70%) using1) buthionine-(S,R)-sulfoximine (BSO), which inhibits GSH synthesis; 2) diamide, which oxidizes thiols; or 3) 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), which putatively depletes GSH through glutathione S-transferase activity. Cellular GSH depletion with BSO had no effect on endothelial NO bioactivity measured as A-23187-induced cGMP accumulation. In contrast, oxidation of intracellular thiols with diamide inhibited both A-23187-induced cGMP accumulation and the cGMP response to exogenous NO. Diamide treatment of either PAECs, PAEC membrane fractions, or purified endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) resulted in significant...
When male rats were given a single dose of cadmium (Cd) (3.58 mg CdCl2 x H2O/kg, i.p.) 72 hr prior to sacrifice, the testicular 7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase (EROD) and glutathione S-transferase (GST) activities toward the substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB), ethacrynic acid (EAA), 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)-propane (EPNP), and cumene hydroperoxide (CHPx) decreased significantly as compared to controls. Cd also inhibited reduced glutathione (GSH) level while increasing the lipid peroxidation (LP) level significantly. When the animals were given a single dose of nickel (Ni) (59.5 mg NiCl2 x 6H2O/kg, i.p.) 16 hr prior to sacrifice, significant decreases were observed in EROD and GST activities toward CDNB, EAA, EPNP, and CHPx, and GSH level. No significant alterations were noted in DCNB GST activity and LP level by Ni. For the combined treatment, rats received the single dose of Ni 56 hr after the single dose of Cd and were killed 16 hr later. In these animals, lesser depressions were observed on EROD activity and LP level than those of Cd alone. The combination of metals significantly inhibited GST activities and GSH level but not to a greater degree than noted by Cd or Ni alone. Plasma testosterone levels of Cd-, Ni-, and combination-treated rats decreased significantly compared to controls. The strongest depression was achieved by Cd alone. Cd, both alone and in combination with Ni, increased the tissue Ni uptake significantly. Ni, however, did not produce such an effect on the tissue uptake of Cd in either case. Cd treatment caused interstitial edema and coagulation necrosis in seminiferous tubules and also caused fibrinoidal necrosis in vascular endothelium. Ni treatment did not produce any pathological testicular alterations compared to controls. Combined treatment produced fewer pathological alterations (i.e., only interstitial edema) than that of Cd treatment. These results reveal that the combination of Cd and Ni does nothave a synergistic effect on testicular xenobiotic metabolizing enzymes, and in contrast, Ni has an ameliorating effect on pathological disturbances caused by Cd alone in the rat testis.
The effect of aging on hepatic drug conjugation in 5- to 6-, 12- to 13- and 22- to 23-month-old female Fischer 344 rats was examined. The overall disposition of acetaminophen including the formation and elimination kinetics of its sulfate and glucuronide metabolites were used as in vivo probes. The effects of aging on selected in vitro drug metabolizing enzyme activities and on the pattern of phenol and bile salt sulfotransferase isoenzymes were also determined. Aging decreased the total clearance of acetaminophen and the partial clearance of acetaminophen to acetaminophen sulfate by 36 and 47%, respectively. Increasing age also resulted in a reduced partial clearance of acetaminophen to the glucuronide- (24%) and to the glutathione-derived conjugates (29%). UDP glucuronosyltransferase activity toward 1-naphthol, morphine and testosterone was unaffected by advanced age, whereas there was a significant correlation between increased age and increased UDP glucuronosyltransferase activity toward estrone. Cytochrome P-450 concentration and glutathione-S-transferase activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene were unchanged by aging. Oxidative demethylase activity toward p-nitroanisole was decreased 18% and sulfotransferase activities toward p-nitrophenol, acetaminophen and glycolithocholate were decreased 27, 12 and 12%, respectively, in the 22- to 23-month-old rats, compared to the 5- to 6-month-old animals. In contrast to the age-related feminization in the pattern of sulfotransferase isoenzyme activities that occurs in male rats, there was no effect of aging on the pattern of phenol and bile salt sulfotransferase isoenzyme activities in female rats.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Changes in molecular forms of hepatic cytosolic glutathione S -transferases (GST) during rat chemical hepatocarcinogenesis were investigated. GST activities toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene increased with the increased area of γ-glutamyltranspeptidase-positive foci and hyperplastic nodules induced by diethylnitrosamine followed by 2-acetylaminofluorene plus hepatectomy. Among GSTs with high activities toward 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, which were separated by carboxymethyl Sephadex column chromatography, the activity of GST-A (YbYb) markedly increased with increased activity towards 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene in livers bearing foci and nodules and in isolated nodules and hepatomas, while activities of GST-C (YbYb′) and -D (Yb′Yb′) changed little. It was demonstrated by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and two-dimensional gel electrophoresis that Yb as well as Ya, a subunit of ligandin (YaYa) and GST-B (YaYc), increased in livers bearing foci and nodules, while Yc as well as Yb′ changed little. A new placental GST form (GST-P), which has a subunit molecular weight of 21,500 or 26,000, according to the marker proteins used, and neutral pls of 6.8 and 6.3, is immunologically different from any form of basic GSTs and is very low in normal liver; also, it was markedly induced in livers bearing foci and nodules and in well-differentiated hepatomas but not by short-term administration of drugs such as 2-acetylaminofluorene, in contrast to GST-A and ligandin. These results indicate that GST-A and more especially GST-P could be new preneoplastic marker enzymes for chemical hepatocarcinogenesis.
Dietary administration of 2(3)-tert-butyl-4-hydroxyanisole (BHA) to mice caused an increase in the hepatic soluble glutathione S-transferase activity towards (+/-)-7 beta, 8 alpha-dihydroxy-9 alpha, 10 alpha-oxy-7,8,9,10-tetrahydrobenzo[a]pyrene (BPDE) of approximately 5-fold whereas that towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was increased by approximately 14-fold. Whereas with either substrate the catalytic capacity of the enzyme was elevated by BHA treatment, there was little effect on the Km for CDNB but an increase in the Km for BPDE as substrates. The results thus suggest that BHA-induced GSH S-transferase activity may be of limited importance for protection from certain reactive intermediates of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons.
Abstract ::: When leukotriene (LT) A4 was incubated with subcellular fractions of sonicated rat basophilic leukemia (RBL) cells in the presence of glutathione, the enzyme producing LTC4, designated LTC4 synthetase, was found in the 105,000 X g pellet (microsomes) with a 3-fold enrichment in specific activity over that of the sonicate. The identification of the reaction product as LTC4 was confirmed by its identical retention time on reverse-phase HPLC to that of synthetic LTC4, the incorporation of [3H]glutathione into the product, its reactivity in a radioimmunoassay, and its UV absorption spectrum. In contrast, glutathione S-transferase activity, measured spectrophotometrically with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, was detected predominantly in the 105,000 X g supernatant (89%) and also in the microsomes (7%). The microsomal glutathione S-transferase and LTC4 synthetase were solubilized with 0.4% Triton X-102 and separated by DEAE-Sephacel chromatography; the former appeared in the effluent and the latter in the eluate after the addition of 0.16 M NaCl to the equilibration buffer. Solubilized, microsomal glutathione S-transferase was inhibited by S-hexylglutathione with an IC50 of 36 microM and was stable at 40 degrees C for 5 min, whereas LTC4 synthetase was only slightly inhibited (IC50, 2.3 mM) by S-hexylglutathione and retained no activity after incubation at 40 degrees C for 5 min. The partially purified LTC4 synthetase showed a specific activity of 1.34 +/- 0.51 nmol of LTC4 per 10 min per mg of protein (mean +/- SD, n = 9), representing a 10-fold purification from the sonicate and catalyzed the dose- and time-dependent production of LTC4 from LTA4 and glutathione. The apparent Km values for LTA4 and glutathione were estimated by Lineweaver-Burk plots to be 5-10 microM and 3-6 mM, respectively. These results indicate that the conjugation of LTA4 with glutathione to form LTC4 is catalyzed by a unique microsomal enzyme.
Four cDNAs encoding GST (rGST1, rGST7, rGST47 and rGST51) of Fasciola hepatica were expressed in Escherichia coli and the rGST proteins purified for biochemical analyses. The rGST proteins are 95% pure as indicated by Coomassie staining of proteins separated by SDS-PAGE. Molecular sieving by HPLC infers that, like the native protein, the rGST proteins form homodimers under non-denaturing conditions. The rGST proteins are recognised by antisera raised to the native GST of F. hepatica. All four rGST proteins from F. hepatica actively conjugate glutathione to the universal substrate, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. The activity of the rGSTs was also measured for substrates which have been shown to have partial specificity for the Alpha, Mu or Pi classes of mammalian GSTs (trans-4-phenyl-3-buten-2-one, ethacrynic acid), for substrates known to be products of lipid peroxidation (trans-2-nonenal, trans,trans-2,4-decadienal) and for epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)-propane (EPNP), a known substrate for the theta class of GST. No rGST were active with EPNP. rGST47 and 51 showed activity with the other four substrates. rGST7 was active with three substrates whereas rGST1 showed relatively low activity with all substrates except trans,trans-2,4-decadienal. The sensitivity of the rGST activity to inhibition by the GST inhibitors triphenyltin chloride and bromosulphophthalein also varied among the rGSTs with rGST1 showing a 800-fold difference in sensitivity between the inhibitors. These results show that F. hepatica expresses a family of GST isoenzymes which exhibit unique substrate and inhibitor profiles.
We have purified two cationic (pI 7·2 and >10·0) forms of glutathione S-transferase from the bovine cornea through a combination of gel filtration, affinity chromatography, and isoelectric focusing. Both these glutathione S-transferases conjugate glutathione (GSH) to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, have an absolute requirement of GSH as the thiol donor, and do not express selenium-independent glutathione peroxidase activity. The conjugation of GSH to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene catalyzed by the less cationic transferase is inhibited by bilirubin. Both glutathione S-transferases of the cornea have a broader spectrum of substrates that are conjugated to GSH than the glutathione S-transferases of bovine lens and retina.
The platelet thiol-disulfide balance is important for platelet function. Perturbation of platelet thiol status effects platelet aggregation and release. The low M r thiol compounds, reduced glutathione (GSH), cysteine, and 6-mercaptopurine, inhibit platelet aggregation induced by several agonists, while the disulfide-bond reducing agents dithiothreitol and ␤-mercaptoethanol promote aggregation (1). In addition, reaction of platelet sulfhydryl groups with the thiol specific compounds, diamide and N-ethylmaleimide, inhibits in vitro aggregation and clot retraction (2-5). These results imply that certain platelet thiol groups are critical for platelet aggregation. Furthermore, the observation that specific depletion of platelet GSH by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene only marginally effects platelet aggregability implies that the critical thiol groups are associated with protein (6). In support of this notion, Yamada et al. (7) have shown that the anti-platelet aggregation actions of 2,2Ј-dithiobis(N-2-hydroxypropylbenzamide) are mediated through interaction of the compound with platelet protein thiol groups.
We previously showed that the Ile105→Val105 substitution in GSTP1 is strongly associated with severity of BHR [5] . A further polymorphism is present at amino acid 114 (Ala114→Val114), however, indicating that unequivocal identification of GSTP1 alleles requires consideration of both substitutions. These polymorphisms give rise to wild-type GSTP1*A (Ile105→Ala114), GSTP1*B (Val105→Ala114), GSTP1*C (Val105→Val114) and GSTP1*D (Ile105→Val114) [6] [7] [8] [9] . Although the Ile105 variant has a higher catalytic efficiency for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene than does the Val105 variant [6] , the Val105 variant appears to confer higher catalytic efficiency for polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon diol epoxides [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] . The effect of the Ala114→Val114 substitution is unclear, although it may enhance the effect of the Ile105→Val105 substitution [11] .
Western blots were developed using commercially available antibodies against GSTA, M, and P. Western blots were scanned on a Typhoon 9600, and band density of interest was normalized to α-tubulin staining band density. Total GST conjugating activity toward substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (1 mmol/L) and ethacrynic acid (200 µmol/L) was measured in cardiac homogenates as reported previously.
Most tissues express several GST isoforms. To determine the expression of GST isoforms in the heart, we measured the relative expression of the 3 major GST isoforms-GS-TA (α), GSTM (μ), and GST P1/P2 (π) in the hearts of WT and GSTP-null mice. Real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis showed that mGstp1/2 was the most abundant GST transcript followed by mGsta4 and mGstm4.1 ( Figure 1A ). Real-time polymerase chain reaction and Western blotting did not show a compensatory increase in the expression of GSTA and GSTM isoforms in GSTP-null mice ( Figure 1A and 1B). Immunohistochemical studies showed diffuse localization of GSTP in the myocardium with positive immunoreactivity associated with cardiac myocytes and coronary blood vessels. No positive immunohistochemical reactivity was observed in GSTP-null hearts ( Figure 1C ). Subcellular fractionation showed that GSTP was localized mainly in the cytosolic (>50%) and the nuclear fractions, although low levels of the protein were also detected in the microsomal and mitochondrial fractions ( Figure 1D ). GST activity measured with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, which is conjugated by most GSTs, as well as ethacrynic acid, a GSTP-specific substrate, was significantly lower in subcellular fractions of GSTP-null hearts compared with WT hearts (Figures 1E and 1F) indicating that GSTP contributes significantly to total GST conjugating activity in the heart. There were no differences, however, in protein abundance (Online Figure IA) or the activity (Online Table  II ) of major antioxidant enzymes, including superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione reductase, glutathione peroxidase, aldose reductase, and thioredoxin between WT and GSTP-null hearts. A small (8%), but statistically significant, difference in catalase activity was observed, but this is unlikely to be physiologically significant. Similarly, the inducible proteins, inducible nitric oxide synthase and heme oxygenase-1, were not detected in WT or GSTP-null hearts (Online Figure IB) , and there was no difference in the basal level of protein-HNE adducts (Online Figure IC) . Collectively, these data indicate that GSTP is a major cardiac GST isoform and that GSTP deficiency does not result in compensatory changes in other GSTs or in persistent oxidative stress.
The thioredoxin (Trx) system, comprising Trx, the selenoprotein thioredoxin reductase (TrxR), and NADPH, functions as an antioxidant system. Trx has various biological activities including growth control and anti-apoptotic properties, and the Trx system offers a target for the development of drugs to treat and/or prevent cancer. We evaluated the role of TrxR inhibition in the release of arachidonic acid (AA), cell toxicity, and intracellular signaling pathways in L929 mouse fibrosarcoma cells. Treatment with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB, an inhibitor of TrxR) under conditions involving limited inhibition of TrxR activity in cells, released AA before causing cytotoxicity. Treatment with an inhibitor of p38 kinase, a downstream enzyme of the apoptosis signal-regulating kinase 1 pathway, and pyrrophenone (an inhibitor of α-type cytosolic phospholipase A2, cPLA2α) partially but significantly decreased the DNCB-induced release of AA and cell death. The responses were much weaker in cPLA2α knockdown L929 cells. Exogenously added AA showed cytotoxicity. DNCB increased intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels, and butylated hydroxyanisole (an antioxidant) reduced DNCB-induced ROS formation and cell toxicity but not the phosphorylation of p38 kinase and release of AA. Auranofin, another inhibitor of TrxR having a different formula, released AA resulting in toxicity in L929 cells. DNCB caused the release of AA and cytotoxicity in A549 human lung carcinoma cells, and caused p38 kinase-dependent toxicity in PC12 rat pheochromocytoma cells. Our data suggest that a dysfunctional Trx system triggers multiple signaling pathways, and that the AA released by cPLA2α-dependent and -independent pathways is important to cytotoxicity. J. Cell. Physiol. 219: 606–616, 2009. © 2009 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
Although the biotransformation of organic nitrates by the cytosolic glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) is well known, the relative contribution of the microsomal GST (MGST1) to nitrate biotransformation has not been described. We therefore compared the denitration of glyceryl trinitrate (GTN) by purified rat liver MGST1 and cytosolic GSTs. Both MGST1 and cytosolic GSTs catalyzed the denitration of GTN, but the activity of MGST1 toward GTN was 2- to 3-fold higher. To mimic oxidative/nitrosative stress in vitro, we treated enzyme preparations with hydrogen peroxide, S-nitrosoglutathione, and peroxynitrite. Both oxidants and nitrating reagents increased the activity of MGST1 toward the GST substrate, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) whereas these treatments inhibited GTN denitration by MGST1. Alkylation of the sole cysteine residue of MGST1 by N-ethylmaleimide markedly increased enzyme activity with CDNB as substrate but decreased the rate of GTN denitration. In aortic microsomes from GTN-tolerant animals, there was a decreased abundance of MGST1 dimers and trimers. In hepatic microsomes from GTN-tolerant animals, GTN biotransformation was unaltered whereas the rate of CDNB conjugation was doubled, suggesting that chronic GTN exposure causes structural modifications to the enzyme, resulting in increased activity to certain substrates. Collectively, these data indicate that MGST1 contributes significantly to the biotransformation of GTN and that chemical modification of the microsomal enzyme has differential effects on the catalytic activity toward different substrates.
From the matrix of rat liver mitochondria, three GSH transferases were isolated and named Transferase 1, 2.1 and 2.2. Transferases 1 and 2.2 were purified to electrophoretic homogeneity. Transferase 1 contributes up to about 90% of the total mitochondrial GSH-transferring activity. It has a molecular weight of approx. 45 000 and is composed of two subunits of similar size. The isoelectric point is at pH 7.1-7.4. The Km values for GSH and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene are 0.3 and 0.7 mmol/l respectively. Transferase 2.2 has the same molecular weight and subunit structure like the Transferase 1 and an isoelectric point at pH 4.8. The apparent Km values for GSH and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene are 0.3 mmol/l and 0.4 mmol/l respectively. Transferase 2.1 contributes only 1% of the total mitochondrial GSH-transferring activity. It has high apparent Km values for both GSH and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (5.6 mmol/l and 1.3 mmol/l resp.) and a limited spectrum of substrates.
Abstract A 24-kDa protein isolated by preparative gel electrophoresis from rat testes was reported by us as an active immunogen in rats. Anti-24-kDa antibodies inhibited murine sperm-oocyte binding in vitro. Here, we show similarity at the NH2 terminus shared by this protein purified on Sephadex G-75 followed by anion exchange high performance liquid chromatography with glutathione S-transferase (GST)-μ subunits. This protein purified by glutathione affinity chromatography also demonstrated similarity to GST-μ NH2 terminus in a 30-amino-acid overlap. Both proteins showed activity toward the GST substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (K of 33 μM and 50 μM) which was inhibited by 17β-estradiol 3-sulfate. Antisera against both proteins recognized liver GST-μ on Western blots and sperm acrosome of multiple species immunocytochemically. Both antisera significantly inhibited in vitro fertilization of goat oocytes by sperm preincubated with them while anti-liver GST sera did not. GST activity was localized on rat sperm, seminiferous tubular fluid, and Sertoli cells. Seminiferous tubular fluid 24-kDa protein shared similarity to the NH2 terminus of GST-μ subunits in a 20-amino-acid overlap. Time-dependent accumulation of GST was detected in the spent culture medium of seminiferous tubules from rats of different ages suggesting secretion.
Although the existence of the rat glutathione S-transferase (GST) M4 (rGSTM4) gene has been known for some time, the corresponding protein has not as yet been purified from tissue. A recombinant rGSTM4-4 was thus expressed in Escherichia coli from a chemically synthesized rGSTM4 gene. The catalytic efficiency (k(cat)/K(m)) of rGSTM4-4 for the 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) conjugation reaction was 50-180-fold less than that of the well-characterized homologous rGSTM1-1, and the pH optimum for the same reaction was 8.5 for rGSTM4-4 as opposed to 6.5 for rGSTM1-1. Molecular-modelling studies predict that key substitutions in the helix alpha4 region of rGSTM4-4 account for this pK(a) difference. A notable structural feature of rGSTM4-4 is the Cys-115 residue in place of the Tyr-115 of other Mu-class GSTs. The thiol group of Cys-115 is redox-reactive and readily forms a mixed disulphide even with GSH; the S-glutathiolated form of the enzyme is catalytically active. A mutated rGSTM4-4 (C115Y) had 6-10-fold greater catalytic efficiency than the wild-type rGSTM4-4. Trp-45, a conserved residue among Mu-class GSTs, is essential in rGSTM4-4 for both enzyme activity and binding to glutathione affinity matrices. Antibodies directed against either the unique C-terminal undecapeptide or tridecapeptide of rGSTM4 reacted with rat and mouse liver GSTs to reveal an orthologous mouse GSTM4-4 present at low basal levels but which is inducible in mouse liver. This subclass of rodent Mu GSTs with redox-active Cys-115 residues could have specialized physiological functions in response to oxidative stress.
Male mice were fed a diet containing less than 0.01 ppm selenium (Se-) for 6 months. A control group received the same diet containing 0.5 ppm selenium (Se+). In the livers of the Se- animals a drastic decrease in glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) activity was observed. It reached undetectable levels after 17 days of the Se- diet. At that time, GSH-transferase activity began to increase significantly, followed by changes in many other enzyme activities. After the 60th day, these enzyme modulations had reached a plateau with the following percentage changes compared to controls: GSH-transferases: 320% (1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene), 218% (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene); glutathione reductase: 160%; ethoxycoumarin deethylase: 330%; cytochrome P-450-hydroperoxidase: 230%; heme oxygenase: 240%; UDP-glucuronyltransferase: 200%; GSH-thioltransferase: 64%; sulphotransferase: 62%; NADPH-cytochrome-P-450-reductase: 65%; flavin-containing mono-oxygenase: 57%. No significant changes were observed for GSH-transferase activity assayed with ethacrynic acid or for microsomal H2O2 formation and aniline hydroxylase activity. In single-pulse repletion experiments by injection of 250 micrograms selenium/kg body wt, different individual time constants for the recovery process of the enzymatic perturbations were observed. The half-times for the recovery ranged from 5.7 hr for the microsomal NADPH-cytochrome-P-450 reductase to over 29 hr for GSH-Px up to 44 hr for part of the GSH-transferase activity. 250 micrograms selenium/kg body wt were needed to restore 50% of GSH-Px activity in the long-term Se- mice compared to Se+ controls. All other enzymatic changes in the Se- mice needed a dose of 7 micrograms selenium/kg body wt for 50% restorage . The results demonstrate that processes other than those related to GSH-Px take place in a later phase of selenium deficiency in mouse liver with a chronologically common beginning. The different repletion and depletion kinetics as well as the different need of these processes for the trace element are discussed with respect to the existence of two separate selenium pools.
Mitochondrial thioredoxin reductase was purified from bovine adrenal cortex. The enzyme is a first protein component in the mitochondrial thioredoxin-dependent peroxide reductase system. The purified reductase exhibited an apparent molecular mass of 56 kDa on SDS/PAGE, whereas the native protein was about 100 kDa, suggesting a homodimeric structure. It catalysed NADPH-dependent reduction of 5, 5'dithiobis(2-nitrobenzoic acid) and thioredoxins from various origins but not glutathione, oxidized dithiothreitol, DL-alpha-lipoic acid, or insulin. Amino acid and nucleotide sequence analyses revealed that it had a presequence composed of 21 amino acids which had features characteristic of a mitochondrial targeting signal. The amino acid sequence of the mature protein was similar to that of bovine cytosolic thioredoxin reductase (57%) and of human glutathione reductase (34%) and less similar to that of Escherichia coli (19%) or yeast (17%) enzymes. Human and bovine cytosolic thioredoxin reductase were recently identified to contain selenocysteine (Sec) as one of their amino acid constituents. We also identified Sec in the C-terminal region of mitochondrial (mt)-thioredoxin reductase by means of MS and amino acid sequence analyses of the C-terminal fragment. The four-amino acid motif, Gly-Cys-Sec-Gly, which is conserved among all Sec-containing thioredoxin reductases, probably functions as the third redox centre of the enzyme, as the mitochondrial reductase was inhibited by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, which was reported to modify Sec and Cys covalently. It is known that mammalian thioredoxin reductase is different from bacterial or yeast enzyme in, for example, their subunit molecular masses and domain structures. These two different types of enzymes with similar activity are suggested to have evolved convergently. Our data clearly show that mitochondria, which might have originated from symbiotic prokaryotes, contain thioredoxin reductase similar to the cytosolic enzyme and different from the bacterial one.
In an uncontrolled investigation 63 selected patients with verrucae vulgares were sensitized with DNCB (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene) with subsequent regular painting of the warts with DNCB. Only 86% of these patients could be sensitized, in contrast to 96% in a normal population. 20 patients had to be excluded from the material on account of defaulting or defective sensitization. In the remainder of the patients allergic type IV inflammation developed around the painted warts and 1 patient developed an urticarial type I reaction around the warts and on the body. In the patients with multiple warts, 80% (24/30) were cured. This corresponds to the percentage cure in patients with solitary warts. Complement-binding wart virus antibodies were present in 15% of the patients prior to the treatment and in 43% after the conclusion of treatment. This investigation provides a new method of treatment of verrucae vulgares and suggests that regression in the warts is immunologically conditioned. On account of the risk of allergic side effects, the method should be carried out in special departments only.
alpha-Tocopherol inhibits glutathione S-transferase P1-1 (GST P1-1) (R.I.M. van Haaften, C.T.A. Evelo, G.R.M.M. Haenen, A. Bast, Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 280 (2001)). In various cosmetic and dietary products alpha-tocopherol is added as a tocopherol ester. Therefore we have studied the effect of various tocopherol derivatives on GST P1-1 activity. It was found that GST P1-1 is inhibited, in a concentration dependent manner, by these compounds. Of the compounds tested, the tocopherols were the most potent inhibitors of GST P1-1; the concentration giving 50% inhibition (IC(50)) is <1 microM. The esterified tocopherols and alpha-tocopherol quinone also inhibit the GST P1-1 activity at a very low concentration: for most compounds the IC(50) was below 10 microM. RRR-alpha-Tocopherol acetate lowered the V(max) values, but did not affect the K(m) for either 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene or GSH. This indicates that the GST P1-1 enzyme is non-competitively inhibited by RRR-alpha-tocopherol acetate. The potential implications of GST P1-1 inhibition by tocopherol and alpha-tocopherol derivatives are discussed.
The ontogenic study of the hepatic biotransformation enzymes revealed the early development of both oxidative and conjugative enzymes in male chickens ranging in age from 3 to 12 weeks. Although the rate of microsomal cytochrome P450 reactions progressively increased during the first 9 weeks, it decreased thereafter. Furthermore, the proteins revealed by the antibodies to anti-cytochrome P450 1A2, 2B4, 2C7, and 3A4 appeared to be constitutively expressed. Hepatic monooxygenases were characterized by different developmental patterns. The demethylase activities increased progressively up to 9 weeks, then they declined, in 12 weeks reaching the activity level observed in 3-week-old chickens. In contrast, alkoxyresorufin O-dealkylases and benzopyrene hydroxylase activities continued to increase with age. Significant variability was noted for aniline hydroxylase. Among conjugation enzymes, UDP-glucuronyltransferase towards p-nitrophenol and isoniazid N-acetyltransferase activities increased with the age of the fowl, but with different profiles. Concerning glutathione S-transferase accepting 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene or 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, the chickens aged from 3 to 9 weeks were less well developed in this enzyme than 12-week-old ones.
Survival of Onchocerca volvulus, a pathogenic human filarial parasite, is likely to depend upon the detoxification activities of the glutathione S-transferases (GSTs). The 24 kDa O. volvulus GST, OvGST2, was expressed in a bacterial system and the recombinant protein was purified to homogeneity by affinity chromatography. Specific activities of the recombinant OvGST2 (rOvGST2) with a variety of substrates, and in the presence of inhibitors, were determined. With the universal substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, the specific activity of rOvGST2 was 2130 nmol min-1 mg-1. The rOvGST2 showed relatively limited selenium-independent glutathione peroxidase activity, but secondary products of lipid peroxidation, namely members of the trans,trans-alka-2,4-dienal,trans-alk-2-enal and 4-hydroxyalk-2-enal series, were conjugated to glutathione via OvGST2 dependent activity. The gene encoding the OvGST2 was isolated and the nucleotide sequence determined. The ovgst2 gene was found to possess seven exons with six intervening sequences, with all except one having consensus splice-site junctions. This intron/exon organisation of the ovgst2 gene is almost identical with those described for the mammalian Pi class GST genes, consistent with the protein structural evidence that the OvGST2 is related to the Pi class GSTs. Southern blot analysis with total parasite genomic DNA indicated a single copy gene, with a restriction pattern consistent with that of the isolated gene. The tissue distribution of the OvGST2 was examined in O. volvulus by immunohistochemistry and was shown to be distinct from that of the OvGST1. The OvGST2 was located throughout the syncytial hypodermis of male and female adult worms, as well as in the uterine epithelium. Microfilariae, and infective third stage larvae of O. volvulus, isolated from Simulium neavei, were immunopositive for OvGST2.
Abstract A cDNA encoding a rat liver glutathione S -transferase Ya subunit has been expressed in Escherichia coli and the expressed enzyme purified to homogeneity. In order to examine the catalytic role of histidine in the glutathione S -transferase Ya homodimer, site-directed mutagenesis was used to replace all three histidine residues (at positions 8, 143, and 159) by other amino acid residues. The replacement of histidine 8 or histidine 143 with valine did not affect the 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene-conjugating activity nor the isomerase activity. However, the replacement of histidine with valine at position 159 produced the mutant GST which exhibited only partial activity. A greater decrease in catalytic activity was observed by histidine → tyrosine or histidine → lysine replacement at position 159. On the other hand, the histidine 159 → asparagine mutant retained full catalytic activity. Our results indicate that histidine residues in the Ya homodimer are not essential for catalytic activity. However, histidine 159 might be critical in maintaining the proper conformation of this enzyme since replacement of this amino acid by either lysine or tyrosine did result in significant loss of enzymatic activity.
Abstract The fluorophotometric substrate, 7-glycidoxycoumarin (GOC), was examined for the assay of epoxide-glutathione (GSH)-conjugating activities of seven major GSH transferases (GSTs) isolated from rat liver cytosols. GST 7-7 (GST-P), isolated from the liver cytosol of rats bearing hepatic hyperplastic nodules, catalysed the GSH conjugation of GOC at a higher rate than any other examined GST isolated from the normal rat liver cytosol. GSTs 3-3, 3-4 and 4-4 (group 3-4 enzymes) had specific activities towards GOC by one fifth to one third of that of GST 7-7. GSTs 1-1, 1-2 and 2-2 (group 1-2 enzymes) had very low activities towards this epoxide. A kinetic study indicated that GST 7-7 showed the largest kcat/Km value for the catalytic reaction of GOC-GSH conjugation among the GSTs. In spite of their much smaller kcat values, group 3-4 enzymes showed much larger kcat/Km values for GOC than the group 1-2 enzymes, because GOC had a much higher affinity for group 3-4 enzymes than for group 1-2 enzymes. A comparative study was also done with GSH conjugations of styrene 7,8-oxide (STO) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene by the GSTs. Unlike GOC, the conjugation of STO was mediated at rates about twice as high by group 3-4 enzymes than by GST 7-7. STO was also a very poor substrate for group 1-2 enzymes.
Xenobiotic metabolism can be influenced by various nutritional factors, including protein. In the present study, we have examined the effect of dietary protein (casein) levels on the ability of rat liver S9 to activate the promutagens aflatoxin B1 (AFB), 2-aminoanthracene (2AN) and benzo[a]pyrene (BAP) in strain TA98 using the spiral Salmonella mutagenicity assay. S9s were derived from individual male F344 rats fed for 6 weeks on semisynthetic diets containing 8%, 12% or 22% methionine-supplemented casein as the sole source of protein (diets were made isocaloric by adjusting the corn starch content). Rats were housed in large, raised-bed cages by groups of three per diet. S9 activation mixtures were prepared at 5 mg of S9 protein/ml of S9 mix. Slopes from the linear portions of the mutagenicity dose-response curves were analyzed by ANOVA comparisons. Assays used to elucidate the phase I activities of microsomal preparations were cytochrome P450 content, cytochrome-c reductase activity, flavin-containing monooxygenase activity, 7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylation (EROD) activity, N-demethylation of benzphetamine and para-nitrophenol O-deethylation. Phase II activities in cytosolic preparations were assayed by estimation of glutathione (GSH) content and glutathione S-transferase activity through metabolism of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). Increased levels of dietary casein increased liver wet weights and decreased the ability of the S9 to activate 2AN. Dietary casein levels did not influence the S9-mediated activation of BAP; and consistent but nonsignificant increases in activation of AFB were produced by S9 from animals fed the 22% casein diet. The phase I and phase II activities measured here were not altered significantly by dietary casein levels; thus, other, more specific enzymatic activities may account for the mutagenesis data. These results illustrate the complex interaction between dietary levels of casein and promutagen activation mechanisms, which prevents drawing broad generalizations regarding the influence of dietary casein levels on the capacity of hepatic S9s to activate promutagens.
Abstract The activities of rat glutathione transferases (GSTs) 3-3, 3-4, 4-4 in Class mu towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) but not 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene were increased up to 5-fold during preincubation with 0.4 mM xanthine and xanthine oxidase in 50 mM potassium phosphate, pH 7.8, containing 0.1 mM EDTA. The activated GST 3-4, purified by S-hexylglutathione affinity chromatography after the treatment, had a higher specific activity (130 units/mg) than that of the nontreated (35 units/mg), the Km and Vmax values for glutathione or CDNB also were increased. Other rat GSTs in Class alpha and pi were inactivated by the same treatment. In the presence of superoxide dismutase, the activation of GST 3-4 did not occur.
The glutathione-specific agents diamide, diethyl maleate and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene were found to induce a low frequency of c-mitosis (15%) at non-toxic concentrations concomitant with a 30-40% decrease of non-protein sulfhydryls. The frequency of c-mitosis did not increase further with increased concentrations until non-protein sulfhydryl levels were obtained suggesting depletion of reduced glutathione. The observed shape of the concentration-response curve for c-mitosis is particular to these 3 agents and caffeine among 22 different compounds being tested under comparable conditions. This suggests a similar mechanism of action and from what is known about caffeine this mechanism probably involves an impaired control of cytoplasmic free Ca2+. It is speculated that this impairment with the glutathione-specific agents is primarily due to depletion of a particular pool of reduced glutathione. Tertiary butylhydroperoxide which is a substrate for glutathione peroxidase(s) also causes c-mitosis when there is no significant decrease of non-protein sulfhydryls. The c-mitotic response was found to be biphasic with maintained control levels at an intermediate concentration. The humps in the concentration-response curve for c-mitosis appeared coincident with a mitogenic response (G1----S). Since the latter type of effect most probably is Ca2+ dependent and since the spindle is sensitive to Ca2+ it is tentatively suggested that the c-mitotic effect of tertiary butylhydroperoxide is due to an increase of cytoplasmic Ca2+. Measurements performed imply that an increase of glutathione disulfide (diamide) is more inhibitory to uptake and incorporation of thymidine than a decrease of reduced glutathione per se (diethyl maleate). This difference is probably due to secondary effects on pertinent protein sulfhydryls with diamide, one possible target being the ribonucleotide reductase. All compounds were found to cause an increase of ATP with some of the applied concentrations. The results with diethyl maleate suggest that an increase of ATP is favored by an attack on mitochondrial reduced glutathione. The possible analogy between this effect and an increase of ATP and Ap4A in bacteria during oxidative stress is considered.
Rates of reaction of several 3- and 4-substituted benzylamines with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in azeotropic ethanol at 45° and with toluene-p-sulphonyl chloride in benzene at 45° have been measured.
Our laboratory has recently developed the monoclonal antibody 4F7 which recognizes a molecule on dendritic cells in the dermis of mice that is upregulated after application of contact allergens in vivo. Furthermore, this antibody detects an antigen on dendritic cells in spleen, lymph nodes and colon. In order to study the influence of contact allergens on the surface expression of the 4F7 molecules on dendritic cells, FACScan analysis of splenic dendritic cells was carried out after in vitro application of contact allergens. Freshly isolated splenic dendritic cells were found to be positive for 4F7, 33D1, N418 (CD11c) and MHC class II. After overnight culture the expression of the dendritic cell-specific molecules 4F7 and 33D1 was decreased. This downregulation was not inhibited by the addition of the cytokines TNF-alpha or GM-CSF during in vitro culture. However, in vitro treatment of freshly isolated dendritic cells with the contact allergen 2,4-dinitrofluorobenzene prevented this downregulation of the 4F7 surface molecules. The same effect was observed after treatment with other contact allergens (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene or potassium dichromate). Treatment with the irritant substance sodium dodecyl sulphate, the lectins concanavalin and lipopolysaccharide or the phorbol ester PMA did not prevent the downregulation of 4F7 and 33D1. Moreover, the influence of contact allergens on the expression of the molecules 4F7 and 33D1 was not inhibited by the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide. No effects of contact sensitizers were detectable on the expression of MHC class II molecules or the costimulatory molecules B7 and heat-stable antigen. Our results show a specific stabilizing effect of contact allergens on the dendritic cell-specific molecules 4F7 and 33D1 independent of de novo protein synthesis.
A rapid and selective determination of reduced glutathione in biological material is described, based on its conjugation with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. The reaction product has a UV absorption maximum at 340 nm and is analysed by reversed phase high pressure liquid chromatography. Linear calibration graphs were obtained in the concentration range between 50 microM and 2 mM glutathione in standard solutions and in biological material (rat liver and bacterial homogenates). The detection limit is about 2 microM glutathione when using 20 microliters injection samples.
OBJECTIVES ::: Clinical use and illicit abuse of the potent opioid agonist oxycodone has dramatically increased over the past decade. Yet oxycodone remains one of the least studied opioids, particularly its interactions on the genomic level. The aim of this study was to examine potential alterations in gene expression of drug metabolising enzymes in the liver tissue of male Sprague-Dawley rats chronically treated with oxycodone. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Rats were administered saline or oxycodone 15 mg/kg i.p. twice a day for 8 days. Changes in RNA levels were detected using microarray analysis validated by quantitative real-time PCR; consequent changes in protein expression and functionality were further assessed by Western blotting and activity assays. ::: ::: ::: KEY FINDINGS ::: The expression of several drug metabolising enzymes was modulated by oxycodone treatment: cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2B2, CYP2C13, CYP17A1, epoxide hydrolase 2, carboxylesterase 2, flavin-containing monooxygenase 1, glutathione S-transferase alpha 5 (rGSTA5) and CYP3A2. In particular, the mRNA level of rGSTA5 (formerly GSTYc(2)) was up-regulated by approximately 6.5 fold and CYP3A2 was down-regulated by approximately 7.0 fold. Immunoblotting assays demonstrated a corresponding significant elevation of rGSTA5 protein and repression of CYP3A2 protein. The apparent cytosolic GST activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene conjugation and reduction of cumene hydroperoxide were significantly higher in liver from oxycodone-treated rats than that of saline-treated rats. In addition, the microsomal activity of CYP3A2, measured via 6beta-hydroxylation of testosterone, was significantly decreased in oxycodone-treated rats. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: Repeated oxycodone administration is associated with a significant up-regulation of rGSTA5 and concomitant down-regulation of CYP3A2 mRNA, protein expression and functionality. These results support further in-vivo studies into the clinical impact of our findings.
Although the biotransformation of organic nitrates by the cytosolic glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) is well known, the relative contribution of the microsomal GST (MGST1) to nitrate biotransformation has not been described. We therefore compared the denitration of glyceryl trinitrate (GTN) by purified rat liver MGST1 and cytosolic GSTs. Both MGST1 and cytosolic GSTs catalyzed the denitration of GTN, but the activity of MGST1 toward GTN was 2-to 3-fold higher. To mimic oxidative/nitrosative stress in vitro, we treated enzyme preparations with hydrogen peroxide, S-nitrosoglutathione, and peroxynitrite. Both oxidants and nitrating reagents increased the activity of MGST1 toward the GST substrate, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) whereas these treatments inhibited GTN denitration by MGST1. Alkylation of the sole cysteine residue of MGST1 by N-ethylmaleimide markedly increased enzyme activity with CDNB as substrate but decreased the rate of GTN denitration. In aortic microsomes from GTN-tolerant animals, there was a decreased abundance of MGST1 dimers and trimers. In hepatic microsomes from GTN-tolerant animals, GTN biotransformation was unaltered whereas the rate of CDNB conjugation was doubled, suggesting that chronic GTN exposure causes structural modifications to the enzyme, resulting in increased activity to certain substrates. Collectively, these data indicate that MGST1 contributes significantly to the biotransformation of GTN and that chemical modification of the microsomal enzyme has differential effects on the catalytic activity toward different substrates.
Azinphosmethyl-selected tufted apple bud moths were compared to susceptible and reverted strains with respect to possible metabolic mechanisms of resistance within the third instar, fifth instar, and adults. Based upon bioassays conducted by topical application with azinphosmethyl, LD50s were as high as 867-fold in the selected strain as compared to that seen in susceptible bud moths. The LD50 of the reverted strain was intermediate to that of the susceptible and selected insects at all stages studied. Glutathione transferase activity measured with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was elevated in the selected strain 1.6- and 2.2-fold as compared to third and fifth stadium susceptible bud moths, respectively. No consistent strain differences were noted for 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene. Cytochrome P450 content and P450 mRNA was not significantly different in fifth instars of the susceptible and selected strain. However, there was a 2.7- and 1.9-fold increase in benzphetamine and p-nitroanisole metabolism, respectively, in the guts of azinphosmethyl-selected fifth instars. Benzo[a]pyrene metabolism was elevated 2.4-fold in the carcass of selected bud moths and no differences were noted for methoxyresorufrin in either gut or carcass. Susceptible fifth instars demonstrated a reduced rate of metabolism of azinphosmethyl to the oxon and methyl benzazamide. Piperonyl butoxide failed to synergize azinphosmethyl toxicity. Esterase activity measured with 1-naphthyl acetate and p-nitrophenyl acetate was elevated in selected larvae compared to that seen in susceptible tufted apple bud moths in both larvae and adults. This increased esterase activity was attributed to several isoforms as resolved by analytical isoelectric focusing. One of these forms was consistently overexpressed in all of the life stages examined. Pretreatment of selected fifth instars with S,S,S-tributylphosphorotrithioate increased the toxicity of azinphosmethyl 400-fold and had minimal effect on toxicity in susceptible insects. It appears that multiple hydrolases are the primary metabolic factor in azinphosmethyl resistance in the tufted apple bud moth.
Abstract Mice constitutively express glutathione S -transferase mGSTA3-3 in liver. This isoform possesses uniquely high conjugating activity toward aflatoxin B 1 -8,9-epoxide (AFBO), thereby protecting mice from aflatoxin B 1 -induced hepatocarcinogenicity. In contrast, rats constitutively express a closely related GST isoenzyme, rGSTA3-3, with low AFBO activity and, therefore, are sensitive to aflatoxin B 1 exposure. Although the two GSTs share 86% sequence identity and have similar catalytic activities toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), they have an approximately 1000-fold difference in catalytic activity toward AFBO. To identify amino acids that confer high activity toward AFBO, non-conserved rGSTA3-3 residues were replaced with mGSTA3-3 residues in two regions believed to form the substrate binding site. Twenty-one mutant rGSTA3-3 enzymes were generated by site-directed mutagenesis using combinations of nine different residues. Except for the E208D mutant, single mutations of rGSTA3-3 produced enzymes with no detectable AFBO activity. Generally, AFBO conjugation activity increased in additive fashion as mGSTA3-3 residues were introduced into the rGSTA3-3 enzyme with the six site mutant E104I/H108Y/Y111H/L207F/E208D/V217K displaying the highest AFBO activity (40 nmol/mg/min) of all the mutant enzymes. When this mutant enzyme was further modified by three additional substitutions (D103E/I105M/V106I) AFBO conjugation activity decreased 14-fold to 2.8 nmol/mg/min. Although wild-type mGSTA3-3 AFBO conjugation activity (265 nmol/mg/min) could not be obtained by our rGSTA3-3 mutants, we were able to identify six mGSTA3-3 residues; Ile 104 , Tyr 108 , His 111 , Phe 207 , Asp 208 , and Lys 217 that, when collectively substituted into rGSTA3-3, substantially increased (>200-fold) glutathione conjugation activity toward AFBO.
The present study was designed to investigate whether ethanol extracts of Sophora flavescens (GS), Glycyrrhiza uralensis (GC), Dictamnus dasycarpus (BSP), and their mixtures (GGB-1, -2, -3, and -4) inhibit 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB)-induced atopic dermatitis (AD) in a mouse model. DNCB was topically applied on the dorsal surface of Balb/c mice to induce AD-like skin lesions. The pathological phenotypes of AD, such as erythema, ear thickness, edema, scabs, and discharge, were significantly decreased in the GGB (DNCB + GS:GC:BSP = 3:1:1 mixture)-1-treated groups compared with the other treated groups. The weight of the spleen in immune organs was significantly decreased in the GGB-1-treated groups, whereas the weight of the liver in a control group was similar to that of the groups treated with the samples. Furthermore, toluidine blue staining analysis, a method used to specifically identify mast cells, showed that master cell infiltration into the dermis of the GGB-1-treated group was significantly decreased. The immunoglobulin E concentration was lower in the GGB-1-treated group. In addition, the levels of inflammatory cytokines (interferon-γ, interleukin-1, 4, 5, 6, and 13, 1β, and tumor necrosis factor-α) were also significantly reduced in the GGB-1-treated group. Taken together, these results suggest that a mixture of GS, GC, and BSP in a proportion of 3:1:1 (GGB-1) may contribute to the relief of AD symptoms and may be considered an excellent candidate for an AD therapeutic drug.
Glutathione S-transferase (GST) isoenzymes were isolated from liver and kidney of carp (Cyprinus carpio) by glutathione affinity chromatography and chromatofocusing. Ten hepatic and eight renal catalytically active isoenzymes were identified. GST subunits from purified isoenzymes were further separated by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and were used as standards for the experimental sample analysis. Experimental samples came from carp that were fed fish meal (standard diet) or soybean bas ed diets for one year, injected or not with β-naphthoflavone (BNF; i.p. injection of 50 mg kg-1). HPLC did not allow us to identify precisely the GST isoenzyme pattern in experimental carp. However, GSTs could be pooled in three categories: homodimeric, heterodimeric and unidentified GST subunits. On this basis, the effect of diet and BNF on the GST isoenzyme pattern was investigated. The homodimer/heterodimer ratio was decreased in liver of carp fed a standard diet and in kidney of both dietary groups. BNF increased the total specific GST activity in liver and kidney. However, the GST isoenzyme pattern was not modified in carp fed the standard diet while tissue specific modifications occured in carp fed the soybean diet. BNF decreased the homodimer/heterodimer ratio in liver and increased it in kidney. Abbreviations: BNF - β-naphthoflavone; CDNB - 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene; GSH - reduced glutathione; GST - glutathione S-transferase; HPLC - high-performance liquid chromatography; SDS-PAGE - SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis.
In a 17 year-old male patient with Rotor's syndrome, hepatic glutathione S-transferase activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene reduced to about 0.2% of the mean activity of patients with other diseases. The activities toward sulfobromophthalein and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene were low (44% and 47%, respectively, of those controls), but basically present. Bilirubin UDP-glucuronyltransferase activity in this Rotor's syndrome case was in the normal range.
The ability of the kidney and small intestine to synthesize and subsequently eliminate dinitrophenyl-S-glutathione (DNP-SG), a substrate for the multidrug resistance-associated proteins (Mrps), was assessed in bile duct-ligated (BDL) rats 1, 7, and 14 days after surgery, using an in vivo perfused jejunum model with simultaneous urine collection. A single i.v. dose of 30 mol/kg b.wt. of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was administered, and its glutathione conjugate DNP-SG and dinitrophenyl cysteinyl glycine derivative, which is the result of -glutamyl-transferase action on DNP-SG, were determined in urine and intestinal perfusate by high-performance liquid chromatography. Intestinal excretion of these metabolites was unchanged at day 1, and decreased at days 7 and 14 (39% and 33%, respectively) after surgery with respect to shams. In contrast, renal excretion was increased by 114%, 150%, and 128% at days 1, 7, and 14. Western blot studies revealed decreased levels of apical Mrp2 in liver and jejunum but increased levels in renal cortex from BDL animals, these changes being maximal between days 7 and 14. Assessment of expression of basolateral Mrp3 at day 14 postsurgery indicated preserved levels in renal cortex, duodenum, jejunum, distal ileum, and colon. Analysis of expression of glutathione-S-transferases , , and ,a s well as activity toward CDNB, indicates that formation of DNP-SG was impaired in liver, preserved in intestine, and increased in renal cortex. In conclusion, increased renal tubular conversion of CDNB to DNP-SG followed by subsequent Mrp2-mediated secretion into urine partially compensates for altered liver function in experimental obstructive cholestasis.
A glutathione transferase (GST) mutant with four active-site substitutions (Phe 10 → Pro/Ala 12 → Trp/Leu 107 → Phe/Leu 108 → Arg) (C36) was isolated from a library of active-site mutants of human GST A1-1 by the combination of phage display and mechanism-based affinity adsorption [Hansson, Widersten and Mannervik (1997) Biochemistry 36 , 11252-11260]. C36 was selected on the basis of its affinity for the transition-state analogue 1-( S -glutathionyl)-2,4,6-trinitrocyclohexadienate. C36 affords a 10 5 -fold rate enhancement over the uncatalysed reaction between reduced glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), as evidenced by the ratio between k cat / K m and the second-order rate constant k 2 . The present study shows that C36 can evolve to an even higher catalytic efficiency by an additional site-specific mutation. Random mutations of the fifth active-site residue 208 allowed the identification of 18 variants, of which the mutant C36 Met 208 → Cys proved to be the most active form. The altered activity was substrate selective such that the catalytic efficiency with CDNB and with 1-chloro-6-trifluoromethyl-2,4-dinitrobenzene were increased 2-3-fold, whereas the activity with ethacrynic acid was decreased by a factor of 8. The results show that a single-point mutation in the active site of an enzyme may modulate the catalytic activity without being directly involved as a functional group in the enzymic mechanism. Such limited modifications are relevant both to the natural evolution and the in vitro redesign of proteins for novel functions.
When rats were orally administered a daily dose of 300 mg kg-1 body weight of 3,5-di-t-butyl-4-hydroxytoluene (BHT) for 4 days, about 90% increase over basal level in total glutathione (GSH) S-transferase activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was observed in ocular lens. GSH S-transferase activity in the ocular lens was also increased towards other substrates such as p-nitrobenzyl chloride and ethacrynic acid. In the rat lens, two isoenzymes of GSH S-transferase (pI 8.0 and 6.1) are present, and both of these isoenzymes are induced by BHT treatment. The quantification of GSH S-transferase protein in the control and the BHT-treated rat lenses indicates that the increase in GSH S-transferase activity in the ocular lens is due to the increased enzyme protein and not due to the activation of the enzyme. A significant increase in glutathione (acid soluble thiol) levels and glutathione reductase activity was also observed in the lenses of rats treated with BHT. Glutathione peroxidase activity and the enzymes of mercapturic acid pathway except GSH S-transferase remained unaltered by the BHT treatment.
Abstract Cyfluthrin resistance in Tribolium castaneum (Herbst) was associated with increases in both glutathione (GSH) concentration and glutathione S -transferase (GST) activity. Cytosolic GSH content was increased twofold in resistant beetles. Similarly, conjugation of the GST substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB) were elevated four- to sixfold in cytosols isolated from resistant beetles. However, no difference in GST activity was noted when p -nitrobenzylchloride (PNBC) was used as a substrate. Kinetic analysis of cytosolic CDNB activity revealed a four- to fivefold increase in apparent V max in resistant cytosols. Apparent K m , however, was similar in both resistant and susceptible cytosols. Partial purification of beetle cytosols revealed increased CDNB activity in resistant cytosols eluting as the unbound fraction following DE-52 chromatography when compared with cytosols isolated from susceptible insects. When electrophoresed on an equal protein basis, SDS-PAGE analysis revealed increased staining of a single protein band in the GST molecular weight region (24–30,000 Da) in cytosols isolated from resistant beetles. Taken together, these results are consistent with the increased expression of a common GST in resistant beetles. Microsomes isolated from resistant beetles exhibited a type I binding spectrum when incubated with piperonyl butoxide. In contrast, no spectral interaction was noted when piperonyl butoxide was added to microsomes isolated from susceptible insects. Similarly, metabolic intermediate (MI) complex formation with piperonyl butoxide was only observed in microsomes from resistant beetles. Addition of GSH to the incubation mixture prior to the initiation of piperonyl butoxide metabolism resulted in a dose-related decrease in complex formation (as measured by 427 nm peak height), 5 m M GSH being associated with a 50% decrease in complexation. This result suggests that increased GSH levels may influence MI complex formation in vivo and hence affect insecticide synergism.
1-Chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was used to conjugate glutathione (GSH) through the catalysis of lens glutathione S-transferase without the untoward oxidative damage to the lens mediated by GSH oxidants. A 2 hr treatment of the rat lens with 1 mM CDNB resulted in a nearly total depletion of lens GSH with neither formation of GSSG nor glutathione-protein mixed disulfides. Rubidium uptake was found to decrease linearly with the loss of GSH; nevertheless, ionic imbalance did not commence until more than 30% cation pump activity was lost. Glycolytic rate dropped following CDNB treatment, due probably to a decline in demand for ATP by the deactivated cation pump. 31P-NMR studies confirmed the irreversible loss of ATP. CDNB depletion of GSH resulted in a two-fold increase in 14CO2 production from [14C]-1-glucose. Whereas oxidative stress resulted in a six-fold increase in glucose utilization through the hexose monophosphate shunt (HMPS), CDNB-treated lenses showed no such stimulation. This indicated that the residual GSH following CDNB treatment was insufficient for the activation of the glutathione peroxidase-reductase-HMPS mechanism and raised the possibility that the increased glucose utilization might be due to mechanisms other than the HMPS. These results indicate an intimate correlation between the GSH content and major metabolic functions in the lens.
Evaluation of skin sensitization potential is a major part of safety assessment of new ingredients in cosmetics and drugs to be applied topically. In recent years, it has been postulated that dendritic cells respond to a variety of chemical allergens by up-regulating expression of various co-stimulatory molecules. It might provide the basis for an in vitro alternative approach for the identification of contact sensitizers. Several studies have shown that contact sensitizers induce co-stimulatory molecules on human hematopoietic cell lines. This study attempts to investigate the utility of THP-1 cell line and their co-stimulatory molecule expressions as a predictive in vitro assay system for contact sensitization by chemicals. We investigated the expression of CD54 and CD86 on the THP-1 cells using flow cytometry after a 24 h exposure to known sensitizers such as 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB), Hexylcinnamic aldehyde (HCA), Eugenol (Eu), Cobalt sulfate (Co) and known non-sensitizers such as Sodium lauryl sulfate (SLS), Benzalkonium chloride (BKC), Dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO). The cytotoxicity of test materials was assessed with WST-1 assay to determine the appropriate dose and IC50 (50% inhibitory concentration) was obtained. Based on these data, three concentrations (0.1X, 0.5X, 1X of IC50) were selected. Relative fluorescence intensity (RFI) was used as an expression indicator. All allergens augmented CD54 and / or CD86 expression, while no augmentation was observed with non-allergens except SLS. From the expression of CD54 and / or CD86, we could classify the sensitizer / non-sensitizer. These data suggest that expression of CD54 and / or CD86 in THP-1 cells may be able to classify the potency of allergen, and this model can be a useful candidate for alternative test for skin sensitization.
Wistar male rats were exposed to ethylene oxide (EtO) at a concentration of 500 ppm, 6 hr a day, 3 days a week, for 2, 4, 6, or 13 weeks. Testicular toxicity and changes in glutathione metabolism in the testis were investigated. The relative weights of the testes and the epididymes of the EtO-exposed group decreased in a time-dependent manner. Light microscopic examination revealed degeneration and exfoliation of germ cells. Although the severity of damage became apparent over the course of exposure, some seminiferous tubules showed germ cell recovery at 13 weeks compared with 6 weeks. There was no alteration in plasma testosterone concentration. Glutathione reductase (GR) activity decreased during the entire examination period, and recovery from the decrease was not achieved by addition of flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD). On the other hand, glutathione peroxidase (GPx) activity decreased at 2 weeks, and then increased at 6 and 13 weeks. In spite of alterations in the glutathione redox cycle, the level of reduced glutathione (GSH) in the testes was not affected. Glutathione S-transferase activity, measured with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrate, increased at 6 and 13 weeks and, measured with 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)propane, increased at 4, 6, and 13 weeks. These data indicate that chronic inhalation of EtO induces testicular atrophy. Alterations in the glutathione redox cycle and glutathione S-transferase activity might play important roles in the toxicity and the detoxifying mechanism of the testis.
The oxygen analogue, γ-L-Glu-L-SerGly (GOH)1 and desthio analogue, γ-L-Glu-L-AlaGly (GH) have been synthesized by a simple three step procedure involving active ester coupling of N-t-BOC-α-(4-nitrophenyl)-L-glutamate to L-SerGly and L-AlaGly, respectively. The two peptides are excellent dead-end inhibitors of isozymes 3-3 and 4-4 of rat liver glutathione S-transferase. At low fixed concentrations of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) GOH and GH are linear competitive inhibitors of isozyme 3-3 vs glutathione with KI values of 13.0 and 116 μM, respectively. Both peptides are non-competitive (mixed-type) inhibitors vs CDNB when glutathione is the fixed substrate. Similar results are obtained with both peptides and isozyme 4-4. The results rule out ordered or ping-pong kinetic mechanisms where the electrophile adds first.
The ability of the kidney and small intestine to synthesize and subsequently eliminate dinitrophenyl-S-glutathione (DNP-SG), a substrate for the multidrug resistance-associated proteins (Mrps), was assessed in bile duct-ligated (BDL) rats 1, 7, and 14 days after surgery, using an in vivo perfused jejunum model with simultaneous urine collection. A single i.v. dose of 30 mol/kg b.wt. of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was administered, and its glutathione conjugate DNP-SG and dinitrophenyl cysteinyl glycine derivative, which is the result of ␥-glutamyl-transferase action on DNP-SG, were determined in urine and intestinal perfusate by high-performance liquid chromatography. Intestinal excretion of these metabolites was unchanged at day 1, and decreased at days 7 and 14 (؊39% and ؊33%, respectively) after surgery with respect to shams. In contrast, renal excretion was increased by 114%, 150%, and 128% at days 1, 7, and 14. Western blot studies revealed decreased levels of apical Mrp2 in liver and jejunum but increased levels in renal cortex from BDL animals, these changes being maximal between days 7 and 14. Assessment of expression of basolateral Mrp3 at day 14 postsurgery indicated preserved levels in renal cortex, duodenum, jejunum, distal ileum, and colon. Analysis of expression of glutathione-S-transferases ␣, , and , as well as activity toward CDNB, indicates that formation of DNP-SG was impaired in liver, preserved in intestine, and increased in renal cortex. In conclusion, increased renal tubular conversion of CDNB to DNP-SG followed by subsequent Mrp2-mediated secretion into urine partially compensates for altered liver function in experimental obstructive cholestasis.
To clarify the oxidant defense functions of reduced glutathione (GSH) in erythrocytes, the effect of GSH deficiency on in vitro oxidant defense was studied, using GSH-deficient sheep erythrocytes (low-GSH cells). The formation of Heinz bodies in low-GSH cells was higher than that in high-GSH cells when the cells were incubated with an oxidant drug, acetylphenylhydrazine (APH). Artificial depletion of GSH by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in high-GSH cells resulted in increased Heinz body formation in these cells incubated with APH. Furthermore, high negative correlation was observed between Heinz body formation and GSH content in sheep erythrocytes exposed to APH. These results clearly indicate that erythrocyte GSH is indispensable for erythrocyte defense against oxidative damage induced by APH, and support the previous observations that sheep with low-GSH erythrocytes were more susceptible to oxidative agents than were sheep with high-GSH erythrocytes.
A putative glutathione S-transferase (GST) gene (bphK) was identified in the meta-cleavage operon for the degradation of m-toluate by Sphingomonas yanoikuyae B1. Disruption of bphK resulted in the loss of GST activity against 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and a much increased lag time of the mutant strain MB3 (bphK::Km) following subculture into m-toluate medium. In contrast, an increased lag time was not observed when MB3 was grown on biphenyl or m-xylene and MB3 showed normal growth on m-toluate when complemented with a subclone containing the bphK gene only. Furthermore, an additional GST activity was detected in MB3. The induction timing of this second GST activity coincided with the beginning of the exponential growth phase of MB3 on m-toluate, reached maximal activity within three hours, and then dropped sharply to the basal level. Thus, it is apparent that BphK and/or the second GST are necessary for optimal growth of B1 on m-toluate.
Molecularly imprinted polymers (MIPs) in combination with magnetic nanoparticles, in a core@shell format, were studied for selective detection of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), a powerful allergenic substance. Magnetic nanoparticles were prepared by the co-precipitation method and mixed with oleic acid (OA). This material was then encapsulated in three types of hydrophobic polymeric matrix, poly-(MA-co-EDGMA), poly-(AA-co-EDGMA), and poly-(1-VN-co-EDGMA), by the mini-emulsion method. These matrices were used due to their ability to interact specifically with the functional groups of the analyte. Finally, the MIP-CDNB was obtained on the magnetic-hydrophobic surfaces using precipitation polymerization in the presence of the analyte. XRD diffraction patterns suggested the presence of magnetite in the composite and SEM analysis revealed a nanoparticle size between 10 and 18nm. Under the optimized adsorption conditions, the magnetic-MIP material showed a higher adsorption capacity (5.1mgg-1) than its non-magnetic counterpart (4.2mgg-1). In tests of the selectivity of the magnetic-MIP towards CDNB, α-values of 2.5 and 10.4, respectively, were obtained for dichlorophenol and o-nitrophenol, two structurally similar compounds, and no adsorption was observed for any other non-analogous analyte. The magnetic-MIP and magnetic-NIP were applied using water enriched with 0.5mgL-1 of CDNB, achieving recovery values of 83.8(±0.8)% and 66(±1)%, respectively, revealing the suitability of the material for detection of CDNB.
3,3′-Diethyl-Δ5,5′-birhodanine (III, R C2H5) was obtained as a by-product from the reactions of 3-ethylrhodanine with 2,4-dinitrobenzaldehyde and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene under suitable conditions. The synthesis of 5-arylidene substituted rhodanines was achieved from condensations of rhodanines with anils of aromatic aldehydes in glacial acetic acid. III (R C2H5, CH2 · CHCH2 and CH2COOC2H5) were prepared by heating the appropriate rhodanines in pyridine containing p-toluenesulphonyl chloride. Reduction of III with zinc and glacial acetic acid gave the corresponding 5,5′-birhodanines, which were easily auto-oxidised in solutions to the related III. Rhodanine and some of its congeners react with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in ethanol containing sodium acetate to give 2,2′,4,4′-tetranitrodiphenyl sulphide. The methylene group of 3-aminorhodanine reacted with p-nitrobenzaldehyde in boiling ethanol, while the amino group was attacked when the reaction was carried out in glacial acetic acid at room temperature. Pyridine solutions of 5-unsubstituted rhodanines were unstable.
Two similar glutathione S-transferases (GSTs), which do not bind to glutathione– or S-hexylglutathione–agarose affinity resins, have been purified from the yeast Yarrowia lipolytica . An approx. 400-fold purification was obtained by a combination of DEAE-Sephadex, phenyl-Sepharose, hydroxyapatite and Mono-Q anion-exchange chromatography. The native molecular mass of both proteins was estimated as approx. 110 kDa by both Superose-12 gel-filtration chromatography and non-denaturing electrophoresis. SDS/PAGE indicated a subunit mass of 50 kDa. Reverse-phase HPLC of purified proteins gave a single, well-resolved, peak, suggesting that the proteins are homodimers. Identical behaviour on HPLC, native electrophoresis and SDS/PAGE, N-terminal sequencing, sensitivity to a panel of inhibitors and identical specific activities with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate suggest that the two isoenzymes are very similar. The enzymes do not immunoblot with antisera to any of the main GST classes, and N-terminal sequencing suggests no clear relationship with previously characterized enzymes, such as that of the fungus, Phanerochaete chrysosporium [Dowd, Buckley and Sheehan (1997) Biochem. J. 324 , 243–248]. It is possible that the two isoenzymes arise as a result of post-translational modification of a single GST isoenzyme.
Deltamethrin (DEL), which is a synthetic pyrethroid insecticide, has been used successfully all over the world to treat mosquito nets for the control of malaria. Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs; EC 2.5.1.18) catalyze the conjugation of reduced glutathione (GSH) to a variety of xenobiotics and are normally recognized as detoxification enzymes. Here, we used a colorimetric assay based on the human placental GSTP1-1 (hpGSTP1-1)-catalyzed reaction between GSH and the model substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as well as molecular docking to investigate the mechanistic and structural aspects of hpGSTP1-1 inhibition by DEL. We show that DEL is a potent, noncompetitive inhibitor of hpGSTP1-1 with an IC50 value of 6.1 μM and Ki values of 5.61 ± 0.32 μM and 7.96 ± 0.97 μM at fixed [CDNB]-varied [GSH] and fixed [GSH]-varied [CDNB], respectively. DEL appears to be accommodated well in an eccentric cavity located at the interface of the hpGSTP1-1 homodimer, presumably causing conformational changes to the enzyme's substrate-binding sites such that the enzyme is no longer able to transform GSH and CDNB effectively. Correspondingly, considerable maternal exposure to and subsequent accumulation of DEL may interfere with the proper development of the vulnerable fetus, possibly increasing the risk of developing congenital defects.
Zeta-class glutathione transferases (GSTZs) were recently discovered by a bioinformatics approach and the availability of human expressed sequence tag databases. Although GSTZ showed little activity with conventional GST substrates (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene; organic hydroperoxides), GSTZ was found to catalyze the oxygenation of dichloroacetic acid (DCA) to glyoxylic acid and the cis-trans isomerization of maleylacetoacetate to fumarylacetoacetate. Hence, GSTZ plays a critical role in the tyrosine degradation pathway and in alpha-haloacid metabolism. The GSTZ-catalyzed biotransformation of DCA is of particular interest, because DCA is used in the human clinical management of congenital lactic acidosis and because DCA is a common drinking water contaminant. Substrate selectivity studies showed that GSTZ catalyzes the glutathione-dependent biotransformation of a range of dihaloacetic acids along with fluoroacetic acid, 2-halopropanoic acids, and 2,2-dichloropropanoic acid. Human clinical studies showed that the elimination half-life of DCA increases with repeated doses of DCA; also, rats given DCA show low GSTZ activity with DCA as the substrate. DCA was found to be a mechanism-based inactivator of GSTZ, and proteomic studies showed that Cys-16 of human GSTZ1-1 is covalently modified by a reactive intermediate that contains glutathione and the carbon skeleton of DCA. Bioinformatics studies also showed the presence of at least four polymorphic variants of human GSTZ; these variants differ considerably in the rates of catalysis and in their susceptibility to inactivation by DCA. Finally, Gstz1(-/-) mouse strains have been developed; these mice fail to biotransform DCA or maleylacetone. Although the mice have no obvious phenotype, a high incidence of lethality is observed in young mice given phenylalanine in their drinking water. Gstz1(-/-) mice should prove useful in expanding the role of GSTZ in alpha-haloacid metabolism and in the tyrosine degradation pathway.
Abstract We have isolated a glutathione S -transferase Y b1 subunit cDNA from a λgt11 cDNA collection constructed from rat testis poly(A) RNA enriched for glutathione S -transferase mRNA activities. This Y b1 cDNA, designated pGTR201, is identical to our liver Y b1 cDNA clone pGTR200 except for a shorter 5′-untranslated sequence. Active glutathione S -transferase is expressed from this Y b1 cDNA driven by the tac promoter on the plasmid construct pGTR201-KK. The expressed glutathione S -transferase protein begins with the third codon (Met) of the cDNA, and is missing the N-terminal proline of rat liver glutathione S -transferase 3-3. Therefore, our Escherichia coli expressed glutathione S -transferase protein represents a variant form of glutathione S -transferase 3-3 (Y b1 Y b1 ), designated GST 3-3(-1). The expressed Y b1 subunits are assembled into a dimer as purified from sonicated E. coli crude extracts. In the absence of dithiothreitol three active isomers can be resolved by ion-exchange chromatography. The pure protein has an extinction coefficient of 9.21 × 10 4 m −1 cm −1 at 280 nm or E 280 0.1% = 1.78 and a p I at 8.65. It has a substrate specificity pattern similar to that of the authentic glutathione S -transferase 3-3. The GST 3-3(-1) has a K M of 202 μ m for reduced GSH and of 36 μ m for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. The turnover number for this conjugation reaction is 57 s −1 . Results of kinetic studies of this reaction with GST 3-3(-1) are consistent with a sequential substrate binding mechanism. We conclude that the first amino acid proline of glutathione S -transferase 3-3 is not essential for enzyme activities.
Abstract The fungicide propiconazole (1-(2-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4-propyl-1,3-dioxolan-2-ylmethyl)-1 H -1,2,4-triazole) induced the hepatic cytochrome P4501A (CYP1A) activity towards ethoxyresorufin- O -deethylase (EROD), the content of CYP1A protein as quantified by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and the glutathione S -transferase (GST) activity towards the three commonly used substrates CDNB(1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene), cumene hydroperoxide (CU) and ethachrynic acid (EA) in brown trout ( Salmo trutta ) depending on dose and body weight. An exponential dose–response relationship existed between propiconazole exposure and CYP1A activity. A 2. order polynomial regression of the propiconazole concentration (square root transformed) on the data for CDNB, EU and CU revealed a bell-shaped pattern of the GST induction. Reverse-phase HPLC of the GSH-affinity chromatography purified GST isozymes in trout exposed to respectively 8.3, 23, 93, 313 and 606 μg l −1 propiconazole in the water indicated that the propiconazole treatment may lead to changes in the composition of the subunits compared to the controls. Thus, propiconazole exposure through the water changed the properties of the brown trout hepatic CYP1A and GST, and these changes may be used as a bioindicator on the molecular level of exposure and effect of propiconazole in controlled experiments. The use in monitoring of propiconazole exposure under natural field conditions is possible, however needs further investigation.
Enzyme activities of glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) toward five different substrates (benzalacetone (PBO), styrene oxide (STOX), sulfobromophthalein (BSP), 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB)) as well as concentrations of four subunits of GST isozymes (1, 2, 3 and 4) were determined using cytosol fractions obtained from livers of young (6 months) and old (26 months) Fischer-344 rats of both sexes. Values for enzyme activities for three substrates (DCNB, BSP and PBO) in young male rats were significantly higher than the corresponding values in female rats. In old male rats, values were generally lower than the corresponding values in young male rats, becoming close to corresponding values in young female rats. Old female rats, however, exhibited values close to those in young female rats, except for DCNB and STOX values, which were slightly lower in old female rats. GST subunits 3 and 4, as determined by high-performance liquid chromatography after purification by affinity chromatography using S-hexyl-glutathione, were predominant in young males, whereas concentrations of subunits 1 and 2 were higher in females than in males. In male rat livers, concentrations of subunits 3 and 4 decreased considerably with age while those of subunits 1 and 2 increased, so that the subunit pattern in old male rats tended to be similar to that of young female rats. In old females, a decrease in the concentration of subunits 3 and 4 and an increase in the concentration of subunit 1 were also observed as in old male rats, while the subunit 2 concentration tended to decline. Furthermore, the elution pattern of affinity chromatography changed with age, yielding an earlier elution of most subunits in old male rats and of subunit 1 in old female rats. The results suggest that age-related changes that occur with GSTs in livers of male rats are essentially a feminization of the isozyme pattern. However, despite rather unremarkable changes in enzyme activities with age in females, considerable changes of subunit pattern (a general decrease in concentration of subunits 2, 3 and 4 and an increase in the concentration of subunit 1) were also observed in female rats, and these were much greater than could be predicted from enzyme activity changes with age in this sex.
Abstract In vitro activities of cytochromes P450 (7-alkyl/aryloxyresorufin dealkyl(aryl)ases, testosterone hydroxylase/oxidase, 6-chlorzoxazone hydroxylase, 7-methoxy-4-trifluoromethyl-coumarin demethylase, and lauric acid hydroxylases), reductases of carbonyl group (toward metyrapone, daunorubicin, glyceraldehyde, and 4-pyridine-carboxaldehyde) and conjugation enzymes ( p -nitrophenol-UDP-glucuronosyl transferase, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene glutathione- S -tranferase) in young adults, males, non-castrated ( N =6) farm animals were studied and compared. Presence of proteins cross-reacting with anti-human CYP3A4, CYP2C9, and CYP2E1 IgG was detected in all farm species. Bovine microsomes differed from other microsomes of farm species in very high 7-ethoxyresorufin- O -deethylase activity (CYP1A1/2). Significantly higher 7-methoxy-4-trifluoromethyl-coumarin demethylase (2–3 times) and 12-lauric acid hydroxylases (4–10 times) activities (probably corresponding to CYP2C and CYP4A, respectively) were found in ovine microsomes. The highest 6β-testosterone hydroxylase activity, which is usually considered to be a CYP3A activity marker, was found in pig. Reductases of all farm animals display considerable ability to reduce carbonyl group of xenobiotics. Significant differences in level and activity of many biotransformation enzymes tested suggest that extrapolation of pharmacokinetic data obtained in one species to another (even related) could be misleading.
It is well known that T cells are key effector cells in the development of allergic contact dermatitis. However, we and others have shown that mice exposed to contact allergens show a preferential increase in B lymphocytes in the draining lymph nodes (DLN) as seen by an increase in the percentage of B220+ or IgG/IgM+ cells. The purpose of the present investigation was to determine whether chemical allergens, in contrast to irritants, would modulate B-cell activation markers, CD86 and I-Ak, on B cells isolated from DLN of treated mice using the local lymph node assay (LLNA) protocol. Mice were treated on the ears for 3 consecutive days with concentrations of allergens (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, alpha-hexylcinnamaldehyde, 4-ethoxymethylene-2-phenyl-2-oxazoline-5-one, and trinitrochlorobenzene), or irritants (benzalkonium chloride and sodium lauryl sulfate), which caused an increase in the number of DLN cells. The DLN were excised 72 h following the final chemical treatment, and the cells were prepared for analysis by flow cytometry. In mice treated with allergens an increase in the median intensity of I-AK and CD86 on B220+ or IgG/IgM+ B cells was observed compared to mice treated with irritants or vehicles. Mice treated with allergens demonstrated an increase in the median intensity of CD86 on B220+ B cells that was dose dependent and peaked at 72 h following the final allergen treatment. The increase in the median intensity of I-AK also was dose dependent but peaked at 96 h. Finally, T and B cells isolated from both allergen- and irritant-treated mice demonstrated an increase in [3H]thymidine incorporation compared to vehicle-treated and naïve mice at 72 h following the final chemical treatment. The results suggest that B cells isolated from DLN of allergen-treated mice are activated and proliferating. Analysis of B-cell activation markers may be useful in differentiating allergen and irritant responses in the draining lymph nodes of chemically treated mice.
gamma-L-glutamyl-L-cysteinylglycine (GSH) has been shown to inactivate 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU) and quench DNA crosslink precursors of BCNU. Because of the central role of 2-chloroethyl-nitrosoureas in brain tumor chemotherapy, we investigated the intracellular GSH content and the expression of specific glutathione-S-transferases (GSTs) in three human malignant astrocytoma cell lines (UWR1, UWR2, and UWR3) of varying BCNU resistance to determine the interrelationship of these parameters with brain tumor BCNU resistance. GSH was assayed by ion-exchange high performance liquid chromatography after derivatization with 1-fluoro-2,4 dinitrobenzene. Both bulk and specific GST (acid, near-neutral, and basic) activities were examined using substrates that show high specificities to the different GSTs. Western blot analyses with antisera against GST-alpha, -mu, and -tau subunits were also performed on partially purified GST from the cells of each cell line. The results showed GSH content of 91, 46.5, and 28.3 nmol GSH/mg protein for UWR1, UWR2, and UWR3, respectively. Bulk GST activity (with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate) also correlated with increasing BCNU resistance. Of the three GST classes examined by both substrate specificities and Western blotting, only the expression of the acidic form, GST-tau, correlated significantly with the rank order of BCNU resistance of the cell lines. GST-mu and -alpha were present in only trace amounts in all three cell lines.
The objective of this study was to characterize the toxic effects of three well known thiol-reactive electrophilic compounds, N-ethylmaleimide (NEM), pentachlorophenol (PCP) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) on anaerobic biotransformation process. The work was part of a larger investigation on potassium efflux as a possible response mechanism of anaerobic microorganisms to the presence of thiol-reactive organic compounds and the interference of such compounds on the reductive dehalogenation process. Using anaerobic toxicity assay (ATA) and granular anaerobic biomass from a full-scale upflow anaerobic sludge blanket (UASB) reactor, inhibitory concentrations of these compounds that reduced the microbial activity of granular biomass to 50% of a control (IC50) were determined to be 592, 0.97, and 450 mg/l for NEM, PCP, and CDNB, respectively. Toxicity of NEM was also tested on anaerobic biomass from a municipal wastewater treatment plant digester and slightly lower IC50 of 532 mg/l was obtained. The results presented here indicate that anaerobic biomass can acclimate to the three thiol-reactive compounds studied and recover from inhibition as long as the toxicant concentration is below a threshold level. That threshold concentration was found to be 500 mg/l for NEM on biomass from the municipal digester, 1 mg/l for PCP, and 500 mg/l for CDNB, both on granular biomass. Granular anaerobic biomass showed recovery even at NEM concentrations of 1000 mg/l.
Differential susceptibility of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH)-mediated liver cancer exists in two related species of Ictalurid catfish. Two hypotheses are addressed in this study to explain this difference. Specifically, the relatively insensitive channel catfish 1) do not produce mutagenic PAH metabolites, and/or 2) they more quickly eliminate PAHs due to greater Phase II enzyme activities than the more sensitive brown bullhead. Livers and bile were collected from each species 6, 24, 72, and 168 h after a single 10 mg/kg i.p. benzo(a)pyrene (BaP) exposure. BaP treatment had no significant effect on cytosolic 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene or ethacrynic acid (EA)-glutathione-S:- transferase (GST) and cis-stilbene oxide-microsomal epoxide hydrolase (EH) activities of either species. Channel catfish EH and GST activities were 1.2-fold higher than brown bullhead activities (p = 0.058 and p < 0.002, respectively). HPLC-APCI-MS of extracted bile and bile enzymatically digested to detect glucuronyl transferase (GT), GST, and sulfotransferase (ST) conjugated metabolites indicated no species differences in elimination or profiles of total biliary metabolites. GT conjugates predominated; ST and GST conjugates were minimal. BaP-diones accounted for the majority of metabolites in both species. Overall, these results indicated that brown bullhead preferentially formed BaP-7,8-dihydrodiol, a precursor to the DNA-reactive BaP-7, 8-dihydrodiol-9,10-epoxide (BPDE), which may be linked to the increased PAH susceptibility in this species.
Nrf2 gene targets, collectively known as phase 2 genes, are involved in glutathione (GSH) production and use, detoxification of ROS/RNS and xenobiotics, and NADPH production (Chan and Kwong, 2000; Ishii et al., 2000; Talalay, 2000; Thimmulappa et al., 2002) . Nrf2 is normally localized to the cytoplasm, tethered to the regulatory protein, kelch-like erythroid cellderived protein with CNC homology-associated protein 1 (Keap1) (Itoh et al., 1999) . Oxidative stress, or electrophilic agents that mimic oxidative stress (Nrf2 inducers), can modify key sulfhydryl group interactions in the Keap1-Nrf2 complex, allowing dissociation and nuclear translocation of Nrf2 (Itoh et al., 1999; Dinkova-Kostova et al., 2002) . When activated, Nrf2 specifically targets genes bearing an antioxidant response element (ARE) within their promoters (Venugopal and Jaiswal, 1996; Itoh et al., 1997) . A wide range of natural and synthetic small molecules are potent inducers of Nrf2 activity (Fahey et al., 1997 (Fahey et al., , 2001 Rushmore and Kong, 2002) . These molecules have been identified from diverse chemical backgrounds including the following: isothiocyanates (abundant in cruciferous vegetables), 1,2-dithiole-3-thiones, heavy metals, and hydroperoxides (Talalay et enriched cultures were rinsed with 10 mM PBS, pH 7.4, scraped into ice-cold PBS, and sonicated for 10 s. These lysates were centrifuged at 15,000 ϫ g for 10 min at 4°C. Supernatants were collected and promptly assayed for enzyme activity. Brain and liver tissue was dissected in icecold PBS and homogenized with 10 strokes of a dounce homogenizer in tissue buffer containing 25 mM Tris, pH 7.4, and 250 mM sucrose. Crude homogenates were centrifuged at 15,000 ϫ g for 10 min at 4°C. Tissue homogenate supernatants were collected and promptly assayed for enzyme activity. NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase (NQO1) enzyme activity was determined by calculating the dicumarol-sensitive fraction of 2,6-dichlorophenolindophenol (DCPIP) reduction (Benson et al., 1980) . Reactions consisting of 25 mM Tris-HCl buffer, pH 7.4, with 0.7 mg/ml BSA, 5 M flavin adenine dinucleotide, 200 M nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH), and 30 g/ml protein, with and without 20 M dicumarol, were preincubated for 10 min at 25°C (final concentrations in 200 l reaction volume). DCPIP was then added to a final concentration of 36 M (20 l volume), and the reaction was monitored at 540 nm. The extinction coefficient for DCPIP was 2.1 ϫ 10 4 M/cm. The glutathione S-transferase (GST) assay consisted of 1 mM 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), 1 mM GSH, and 100 g/ml protein at 37°C in 100 mM potassium phosphate buffer, pH 6.5 (final concentration in 150 l reaction volume) (Kelly et al., 2000) . The GST reaction was monitored at 340 nm, and the spontaneous nonenzymatic slope was subtracted from the total observed slope. The extinction coefficient for CDNB was 9600 M/cm. The lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) assay consisted of 3.3 mM pyruvate, 0.34 mM NADH, and 100 g/ml protein in PBS at 37°C (final concentrations in 150 l reaction volume) (Everse et al., 1970) . The LDH reaction was monitored at 340 nm, and the spontaneous nonenzymatic slope was subtracted from the total observed slope. Purified LDH enzyme standards were used to ensure that values were obtained within the linear of the assay. The extinction coefficient for NADH was 6219 M/cm. Protein concentration was determined using the bicinchronic acid method according to the protocol of the manufacturer (Pierce, Rockford, IL).
(26), and the mutants were checked for activity with a standard assay (28) by using 1 mM 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene͞1 mM GSH in 100 mM sodium phosphate (pH 6.5) at 298 or 303 K.
Differential susceptibility of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH)-mediated liver cancer exists in two related species of Ictalurid catfish. Two hypotheses are addressed in this study to explain this difference. Specifically, the relatively insensitive channel catfish 1) do not produce mutagenic PAH metabolites, and/or 2) they more quickly eliminate PAHs due to greater Phase II enzyme activities than the more sensitive brown bullhead. Livers and bile were collected from each species 6, 24, 72, and 168 h after a single 10 mg/kg i.p. benzo(a)pyrene (BaP) exposure. BaP treatment had no significant effect on cytosolic 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene or ethacrynic acid (EA)-glutathione-S-transferase (GST) and cisstilbene oxide-microsomal epoxide hydrolase (EH) activities of either species. Channel catfish EH and GST activities were 1.2-fold higher than brown bullhead activities (p ‫؍‬ 0.058 and p < 0.002, respectively). HPLC-APCI-MS of extracted bile and bile enzymatically digested to detect glucuronyl transferase (GT), GST, and sulfotransferase (ST) conjugated metabolites indicated no species differences in elimination or profiles of total biliary metabolites. GT conjugates predominated; ST and GST conjugates were minimal. BaP-diones accounted for the majority of metabolites in both species. Overall, these results indicated that brown bullhead preferentially formed BaP-7,8-dihydrodiol, a precursor to the DNA-reactive BaP-7,8-dihydrodiol-9,10-epoxide (BPDE), which may be linked to the increased PAH susceptibility in this species.
The effect of the herbicide safener mefenpyr-diethyl on glutathione S-transferase (GST, EC 2.5.1.18) activities of dark-grown barley (Hordeum vulgare cv. Alexis) was examined. Mefenpyr-diethyl treatment increased the GST activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and the herbicide fenoxaprop as substrates. Glutathione (GSH) peroxidase activity was markedly increased. GST subunits were analysed by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The quantities of two major subunits were increased by the safener treatment, while the quantities of two other major subunits remained constant. A cDNA encoding the most abundant inducible GST (HvGST6) was cloned and expressed in E. coli. The purified enzyme exhibited a low activity with herbicides as substrates. By contrast, it exhibited a strong GSH peroxidase activity.
1. Gills, kidney, intestinal caeca and liver of trout have glutathione S-transferase activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (200 500 nmol/min/mg protein), and reduced glutathione (0.5 2.0 mmol/kg tissue). 2. Only kidney and intestinal caeca have substantial gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase activity with gamma-glutamyl-rho-nitroanilide (2-9 nmol/min/mg protein). 3. Renal gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase is membrane-bound and has similar kinetic properties to its mammalian counterparts. 4. The data are consistent with the presence of a mercapturic acid pathway in trout.
SummaryLigandin is a major renal organic anion-binding protein and is the major glutathione (GSH)-S-transferase in the rat, monkey, and man. GSH transferase activity was measured in isolated segments of the normal rabbit nephron using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate. Enzyme activity was confined to the proximal convoluted and proximal straight tubules and was not detectable in the loops of Henle and collecting tubules.Incubation of proximal tubules with [14C]ethacrynic acid resulted in formation of glutathione and cysteine adducts. Loops of Henle and collecting tubules formed significantly less glutathione adduct and no other adducts. GSH transferase in the proximal tubule may thus be important in vivo in the formation of thiolated adducts by the kidney.
Rate constants for the reaction of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 2- chloro-1,3,5-trinitrobenzene with piperidine in 80% v/v aqueous ethanol have been measured as a function of pressure up to 1.7 kbar. The volumes of activation are -35.0 and -20.7 cm3 mol-1 respectively, consistent with greater delocalization of charge and less solvent electrostriction in the transition state for the second reaction. The applicability of quadratic functionality for 1n k(P) is briefly discussed.
Because platelets contain active antioxidant systems, the capacity of platelets to attenuate oxidant lung injury was investigated. Purine and xanthine oxidase were infused into isolated perfused rabbit lungs (IPL) to generate H2O2, thereby causing increased membrane permeability edema. The coinfusion of washed human platelets (1.20 +/- 0.07 x 10(10) cells) attenuated the degree of edema formation as measured by lung weight gain and lung lavage albumin concentration. Electron microscopy of lung preparations demonstrated platelet adherence to capillary endothelial luminal surfaces of oxidant-injured lungs, but there was no evidence of vascular plugging with platelet macroaggregates. The platelet glutathione redox cycle or platelet catalase were inhibited before infusion of platelets into the IPL with purine and xanthine oxidase. Inhibition of the glutathione redox cycle with 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, or buthionine sulfoximine prevented platelet attenuation of lung injury. Inactivation of platelet catalase with 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole, however, did not significantly reduce the platelet-induced lung protection. We conclude that the platelet glutathione redox cycle plays a major role in reducing enzymatically generated toxic O2 metabolites and attenuating lung injury.
Dicumarol, often used as a specific inhibitor of DT diaphorase (NAD(P)H:(quinone-acceptor) oxidoreductase; EC 1.6.99.2), was found to potently inhibit GSH transferases (EC 2.5.1.18). Dicumarol exhibited an IC50 of 11 microM in inhibiting the conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (50 microM) by GSH transferase GT-8.7, the major hepatic class mu isoenzyme of CD-1 mice. The activities of GT-8.7 and of the class pi isoenzyme, GT-9.0, toward a carcinogenic substrate, 4-nitroquinoline 1-oxide (100 microM), were inhibited by dicumarol with IC50 values of 14 and 9 microM, respectively. Dicumarol also affected GSH peroxidase II activity, inhibiting the reduction of cumene hydroperoxide by GT-10.6, the predominant class alpha GSH transferase of mouse liver, with an IC50 of 14 microM. GSH peroxidase I (EC 1.11.1.9) and GSH peroxidase II activities were resolved by chromatography of liver and testis cytosols. While inhibiting GSH peroxidase II with IC50 of 9-10 microM, dicumarol did not affect the activity of the selenoenzyme, GSH peroxidase I. Whereas several other non-substrate ligands were more potent inhibitors of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene conjugation, dicumarol effectively inhibited GSH transferase and GSH peroxidase II activities in the range of dicumarol concentrations frequently used for detection of DT diaphorase action. These results indicate that physiological consequences resulting from the use of supramicromolar concentrations of dicumarol should not be interpreted in terms of DT diaphorase inhibition alone.
The mercapturic acid pathway (MAP) is a major phase II detoxification route, comprising the conjugation of electrophilic substances to glutathione (GSH) in a reaction catalyzed by glutathione S-transferase (GST) enzymes. In mammals, GSH-conjugates are exported from cells, and the GSH-constituent amino acids (Glu/Gly) are subsequently removed by ectopeptidases. The resulting Cys-conjugates are reabsorbed and, finally, a mercapturic acid is generated through N-acetylation. This pathway, though very well characterized in mammals, is poorly studied in non-mammalian biological models, such as bivalve mollusks, which are key organisms in aquatic ecosystems, aquaculture activities and environmental studies. In the present work, the compound 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was used as a model electrophile to study the MAP in Pacific oysters Crassostrea gigas. Animals were exposed to 10μM CDNB and MAP metabolites were followed over 24h in the seawater and in oyster tissues (gills, digestive gland and hemolymph). A rapid decay was detected for CDNB in the seawater (half-life 1.7h), and MAP metabolites peaked in oyster tissues as soon as 15min for the GSH-conjugate, 1h for the Cys-conjugate, and 4h for the final metabolite (mercapturic acid). Biokinetic modeling of the MAP supports the fast CDNB uptake and metabolism, and indicated that while gills are a key organ for absorption, initial biotransformation, and likely metabolite excretion, hemolymph is a possible milieu for metabolite transport along different tissues. CDNB-induced GSH depletion (4h) was followed by increased GST activity (24h) in the gills, but not in the digestive gland. Furthermore, the transcript levels of glutamate-cysteine ligase, coding for the rate limiting enzyme in GSH synthesis, and two phase II biotransformation genes (GSTpi and GSTo), presented a fast (4h) and robust (∼6-70 fold) increase in the gills. Waterborne exposure to electrophilic compounds affected gills, but not digestive gland, while intramuscular exposure was able to modulate biochemical parameters in both tissues. This study is the first evidence of a fully functional and interorgan MAP pathway in bivalves. Hemolymph was shown to be responsible for the metabolic interplay among tissues, and gills, acting as a powerful GSH-dependent metabolic barrier against waterborne electrophilic substances, possibly also participating in metabolite excretion into the sea water. Altogether, experimental and modeled data fully agree with the existence of a classical mechanism for phase II xenobiotic metabolism and excretion in bivalves.
The present study was designed to compare phase I and phase II biotransformation reactions in immobilized perfused hepatocytes as a cellular system obtained from inbred rat strains which represent models for some cardiovascular diseases, namely, spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR), rats sensitive and resistant to isoprenaline-induced myocardial lesions (IS and IR, respectively) as compared to Wistar rats (W). The biotransformation kinetics for hexobarbital (HX), 7-ethoxycoumarin (7-EC), 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and 4-nitrophenol (4-NP) were followed up in the hepatocyte perfusate. W and SHR rat hepatocytes have metabolized HX at a higher rate than those of the IR and IS strains. Hepatocytes from the W strain exhibited a higher rate of 7-EC deethylation activity compared to hepatocytes obtained from the IR or IS strains. Hepatocytes obtained from SHR and IR rats showed the highest glutathione-S-transferase (GST) activity towards CDNB compared to the IS or W strain. 4-NP disappearance was higher in the perfusion medium of hepatocytes obtained from the W and IS strains compared to the IR strain. These significant differences in drug biotransformation between various studied strains, which may be genetically determined, can be well demonstrated by using an efficient drug metabolizing model of the immobilized perfused hepatocytes. The importance of these differences should be considered during the study of the experimental therapy of the relevant disease as obtained from the specific experimental strain, where it may be expected that the pharmacokinetic profile of a drug in vivo and consequently its pharmacodynamic or toxic effects will be strain dependent.
1-Chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), which causes oxidative stress through depletion of reduced glutathione (GSH), increases the passive K+ permeability of red cells. In this paper, we investigated the effects of CDNB (1 mm) on the activities of the K+−Cl− cotransporter (KCC; measured as Cl−-dependent K+ influx) and the Gardos channel (taken as clotrimazole-sensitive K+ influx, 5 μm) in human red cells, using 86Rb+ as a K+ congener. 45Ca2+ was used to study passive Ca2+ entry and active Ca2+ efflux via the plasma membrane Ca2+ pump. Both the Gardos channel and KCC were stimulated in both normal and sickle red cells. In sickle cells, stimulation of KCC was similar in oxygenated and deoxygenated cells; that of the Gardos channel was greater in deoxygenated cells. In normal red cells, stimulation of both pathways was greater in oxygenated cells (by 4 ± 1-fold; all means ±s.e.m., n= 3). The effects on the Gardos channel were dependent on extracellular Ca2+ and were associated with inhibition of the plasma membrane Ca2+ pump (by 29 ± 3 %, P < 0.01) and increased Ca2+ sensitivity of the channel (EC50 for [Ca2+]i reduced from 260 ± 26 to 175 ± 15 nm; P < 0.05). Cell volume, pHi, ATP levels and passive Ca2+ entry were not affected by CDNB. The effects on KCC were inhibited (93 ± 6 %) by prior treatment with the protein phosphatase inhibitor calyculin A (100 nm) and were not additive with stimulation by N-ethylmaleimide (1 mm), regardless of the order of addition. These findings are therefore consistent with inhibition of a regulatory protein kinase, although stimulation of the conjugate protein phosphatase(s) may also occur. KCC stimulation was also Ca2+ dependent. These findings are important for understanding how GSH depletion alters membrane permeability and how to protect against red cell dehydration.
Glyoxal, methylglyoxal (MG), and 3-deoxyglucosone (3-DG) are physiological α-oxoaldehydes formed by lipid peroxidation, glycation, and degradation of glycolytic intermediates. They are enzymatically detoxified in cells by the cytosolic glutathione-dependent glyoxalase system (glyoxal and MG only) and by NADPH-dependent reductase and NAD(P)+-dependent dehydrogenase. In this study, the changes in the cellular and extracellular concentrations of these α-oxoaldehydes were investigated in murine P388D1 macrophages during necrotic cell death induced by median toxic concentrations of hydrogen peroxide and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). α-Oxoaldehyde concentrations were determined by derivatization with 1,2-diamino-4,5-dimethoxybenzene. There were relatively small increases in cellular and extracellular glyoxal concentration, except that extracellular glyoxal was decreased with hydrogen peroxide. The cytosolic concentration of 3-DG and the cytosolic and extracellular concentrations of MG, however, increased markedly. Aminoguanidine inhibited α-oxoaldehyde accumulation and prevented cytotoxicity induced by hydrogen peroxide and CDNB. The accumulation of glyoxal and MG in toxicant-treated cells was a likely consequence of decreased in situ activity of glyoxalase I. The effect was marked for MG but not for glyoxal, suggestive of a greater metabolic flux of MG formation than of glyoxal. The accumulation of 3-DG in toxicant-treated cells was probably due to the decreased availability of pyridine nucleotide cofactors for the detoxification of 3-DG. Impairment of α-oxoaldehyde detoxification is cytotoxic, and this may contribute to toxicity associated with GSH oxidation and S conjugation in oxidative stress and chemical toxicity, and to chronic pathogenesis associated with diabetes mellitus where there is oxidative stress and the formation of glyoxal, MG, and 3-DG is increased.
Abstract Glutathione transferases are enzymes implied in the resistance of tumor cells to bifunctional alkylating cytostatic drugs. We have investigated the effect of the glutathione transferase inhibitor by ethacrynic acid on the cytotoxicity of melphalan to a human melanoma cell line (RPMI 8322) with a high level of glutathione transferase activity. Using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate, ethacrynic acid was shown to inhibit the activity of purified human glutathione transferases, with 50% inhibition values of 1, 10, and 15 μm for transferase μ (class mu), transferase e (class alpha) and transferase π (class pi), respectively, all of which occur in RPMI 8322 cells. Ethacrynic acid at a concentration of 20 μm, which by itself was noncytotoxic, increased the cytotoxicity of melphalan to RPMI 8322 human melanoma cells approximately 2-fold. The induction of DNA interstrand cross-links by 40 μm melphalan was increased 1.4-fold by 30 μm ethacrynic acid. These results indicate that a potentiation of the cytotoxic effect of bifunctional alkylating agents can be achieved by inhibition of glutathione transferases and that the enhanced cytotoxicity may be caused at least in part by increased formation of drug-DNA adducts.
The study was aimed at determining the role of glutathione (GSH) conjugation in the binding of reactive benzo[a]pyrene (BaP) species to DNA of C3H/10T1/2 cells. In order to suppress GSH conjugation cells were depleted of GSH by treatment with buthionine sulfoximine for 18 h and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene for 1 h prior to incubation with radiolabelled substrates. Under these conditions GSH levels decreased to less than 1% of the control value. C3H/10T1/2 cells produced GSH conjugates with 7,8-dihydroxy-9,10-oxy-7,8,9,10-tetrahydrobenzo[a]pyrene (BaPDE) comprising 6% of the total metabolites formed from BaP or (+/-)-trans-7,8-dihydroxy-7,8-dihydrobenzo[a]pyrene (BaP-7,8-diol). In GSH-depleted cells formation of GSH conjugates with metabolic products of BaP or BaP-7,8-diol was suppressed to 1% of total metabolites during an 8-h incubation period. Metabolic activation of BaP and BaP-7,8-diol by C3H/10T1/2 cells resulted in the formation of DNA adducts which largely consisted of BaPDE:deoxyguanosine. Depletion of GSH altered neither the degree of DNA binding nor the pattern of DNA adducts to any significant extent. When C3H/10T1/2 cells were co-incubated with microsomes from liver of 3-methylcholanthrene-treated rats for 1 h in order to activate BaP or BaP-7,8-diol extracellularly, the same pattern of GSH conjugates and DNA adducts was generated as by intracellular metabolism of the polycyclic hydrocarbons. No GSH conjugates were detected following co-incubation of microsomes with GSH-depleted C3H/10T1/2 cells. The formation of DNA adducts again remained unaffected by the suppression of conjugation. C3H/10T1/2 cells are apparently capable of conjugating BaPDE with GSH but are not capable of trapping by GSH conjugation those BaPDE moieties which bind to DNA. The results are compatible with the notion that BaPDE is partially contained in a cellular compartment--presumably the lipid environment of membranes--where it is inaccessible to GSH transferases of C3H/10T1/2 cells.
Repeated administration of propylthiouracil (PTU) resulted in an increase in glutathione (GSH) transferases activity in rat liver cytosol toward various substrates except for epoxy(p-nitrophenoxy)propane. The enzyme from rat treated with PTU showed high activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and ethacrynic acid. GSH transferases were separated into five forms by CM-Sephadex C-50 column chromatography to detect which isozymes were induced by PTU treatment. Although the activity of the unretained fraction obtained from the column was slightly increased by PTU treatment, the treatment markedly elevated the activity of GSH transferase 1-1. On the other hand, the activities of GSH transferases 1-2, 3-3 and 2-2 were little changed. In addition, an analysis of GSH transferase 1-1 from CM-Sephadex C-50 using SDS-PAGE confirmed that it comprised the 1-1 homodimer. This fraction was then further purified by passing it through a hydroxylapatite column and the partially purified GSH transferase 1-1 from rats treated with PTU was found to have the same characteristics as the control, e.g. the same Km values for GSH and CDNB and the same substrate spectrum. It was concluded that PTU specifically induced GSH transferase 1-1 among the cationic transferases.
Allergic contact dermatitis (ACD) is a chronic inflammatory skin disease. Topical corticosteroids are the first-line therapy for ACD despite their significant adverse effects. Acupuncture has been widely used in the treatment of various skin diseases, but its underlying mechanism remains unrevealed. In this study, we investigated the characteristics of acupuncture treatment based on effectiveness and mechanism. BALB/c mice received 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB) application to build AD-like model. Results showed that acupuncture was an effective treatment method in inhibiting inflammatory conditions, serum IgE levels, and expression of proinflammatory cytokine Th2 (IL-4, IL-6), and Th2 (IL-1β, TNF-α) mRNA compared with DNCB treatment. Acupuncture treatment also inhibited nuclear factor-κB p65, phosphorylation of IκBα, and phosphorylation of occludin proteins expression. Furthermore, it could improve the expression of epidermal growth factor in both mRNA and protein levels. These results suggest that acupuncture, as an alternative therapy treatment for its no significant side effects, was effective in alleviating ACD by reducing proinflammatory cytokines and changing proteins' expression.
The purpose of this study was to characterize the protective effect of NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), an inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase, on oxidative stress-induced endothelial cell injury. Intracellular oxidative stress was induced by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, a glutathione (GSH) depleting agent, and the leakage of intracellular lactate dehydrogenase was measured as a marker of cell injury. Addition of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (100-500 microM) induced leakage of lactate dehydrogenase from endothelial cells, and the leakage of lactate dehydrogenase was strongly attenuated by L-NAME, but not by NG-methyl-L-arginine, also an inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase. However, cell injury induced by the Ca2+ ionophore ionomycin was not affected by L-NAME or NG-methyl-L-arginine. Moreover, neither L-NAME nor NG-methyl-L-arginine affected GSH depleting agent-induced or H2O2-induced cell injury in a rat foetal lung fibroblast cell line which lacks nitric oxide synthase. These results suggest that the protective effect of L-NAME is likely to be related to nitric oxide synthase, while the inhibition of nitric oxide production may not be involved in the protective effect of L-NAME, since NG-methyl-L-arginine did not affect endothelial cell injury.
The effects of the antioxidant lipoic acid and its reduced form, dihydrolipoic acid (DHLA), were studied on the process of the erythrocytic toxicity of 4-aminophenol in human erythrocytes in vitro. 4-Aminophenol alone caused a stepwise increase in methaemoglobin formation, along with a commensurate decrease in total thiols. At 10 min., in the presence of lipoic acid alone and the thiol depletor 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) alone, 4-aminophenol-mediated methaemoglobin formation was significantly increased, whilst thiol levels were significantly reduced compared with the 4-aminophenol alone. At 10 min., with DHLA and CDNB alone, 4-aminophenol was associated with significantly increased methaemoglobin formation. However, thiol levels were not significantly different in the presence of DHLA compared with 4-aminophenol alone, although thiol levels were different compared with control (4-aminophenol alone) in the incubations with CDNB alone. At 15 min., only CDNB/4-aminophenol methaemoglobin formation differed from control, whilst thiol levels were significantly lower in the presence of CDNB alone compared with 4-aminophenol alone. Lipoic acid enhanced the toxicity of 4-aminophenol in terms of increased methaemoglobin formation coupled with increased thiol depletion, whilst DHLA showed increased 4-aminophenol-mediated methaemoglobin formation without thiol depletion. Lipoic acid, and to a lesser extent its reduced derivative DHLA, acted as a prooxidant in the presence of 4-aminophenol, enhancing the oxidative stress effects of the amine in human erythrocytes.
Previous studies have indicated the chemopreventive potential of citrus limonoids due to the induction of phase II detoxifying enzymes. In the present study, three citrus limonoids were purified and identified from sour orange seeds as limonin, limonin glucoside (LG), and deacetylnomilinic acid glucoside (DNAG). In addition, limonin was modified to defuran limonin and limonin 7-methoxime. The structures of these compounds were confirmed by NMR studies. These five compounds were used to investigate the influence of phase II enzymes in female A/J mice. Our results indicated the highest induction of glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity against 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) by DNAG (67%) in lung homogenates followed by limonin-7-methoxime (32%) in treated liver homogenates. Interestingly, limonin-7-methoxime showed the highest GST activity (270%) in liver against 4-nitroquinoline 1-oxide (4NQO), while the same compound in the stomach induced GST by 51% compared to the control. The DNAG treated group induced 55% in stomach homogenates. Another phase II enzyme, quinone reductase (QR), was significantly induced by limonin-7-methoxime by 65 and 32% in liver and lung homogenates, respectively. Defuran limonin induced QR in lung homogenates by 45%. Our results indicated that modification of limonin has differential induction of phase II enzymes. These findings are indicative of a possible mechanism for the prevention of cancer by aiding in the detoxification of xenobiotics.
An investigation was made of ethoxyresorufinO-deethylase (EROD) activity, a cytochrome P450 (CYP) dependent enzyme mainly catalyzed by CYP1A1, glutathioneS-transferase (GST) activity toward the substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and ethacrynic acid (EAA), reduced glutathione (GSH) levels, and antioxidant enzyme (AOE) activity namely catalase (CAT) and selenium-dependent glutathione peroxidase (Se-GPx) in tumor and surrounding tumor-free (normal) tissues in female breast cancer patients. Wide interindividual variations were found in the enzyme activities in both tumor and normal breast tissues. No significant differences were noted between mean EROD and CAT activities in tumor and normal breast tissues. The mean activities of CDNB GST, EAA GST and Se-GPx and GSH levels in tumor tissue were significantly higher than those in normal breast tissue. These results show that CYP, GST and AOE behave differentially in breast tumors.
Abstract. We developed a new two-chamber system for the coculture of hepatocytes and fecal microflora under aerobic and anaerobic conditions, respectively, to investigate the sequential metabolism of chemicals by the liver and microflora in vitro. The culture device consisted of two chambers separated by a permeable polycarbonate membrane. In the aerobic compartment, hepatocytes were cultivated as a monolayer on the membrane and in the anaerobic compartment fecal microflora as a suspension. To characterize the metabolic capacity of the microflora and hepatocytes, various marker enzymes were studied. Azoreductase, nitroductase, β-glucuronidase, β-glucosidase and sulphatase were tested in the microflora of the feces from three volunteers who had had significantly different eating habits for years (daily meat, mixed diet, vegetarian). The microflora exhibited significant activities and the various enzymes differed only moderately in the samples from the three volunteers. For rat hepatocytes the activities of various cytochrome P450 forms and conjugating enzymes served as markers. The enzyme activities were tested in the coculture system during a 4-h culture period intended for the test protocol. Deethylation of ethoxycoumarin and 2α-, 6β- and 16α-hydroxylation of testosterone decreased by about 30%, 25%, 40% and 20%, respectively, while there was no loss of glucuronidation and sulphonation of 3-OH-benzo(a)pyrene nor of glutathione conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene during the 4-h culture period. The activities of the tested hepatic phase I and II enzymes were not changed after coculture of the hepatocytes with the microflora for 4 h. The applicability of the in vitro system for studying the metabolic interaction of liver and microflora was demonstrated using 7-ethoxycoumarin and the developmental drug EMD 57033, a thiadiazinon derivative from Merck KGaA, as model compounds. Both compounds were oxidized and conjugated by liver cells. In the coculture of hepatocytes and fecal microflora the resulting glucuronides and sulphoconjugates were split by hydrolytic enzymes of the intestinal microflora.
Platelets administered 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene to deplete intracellular glutathione (GSH) and inhibit GSH-peroxidase responded with irreversible aggregation to low doses of arachidonic acid (AA) more rapidly than control cells. This increase in sensitivity was correlated to inhibition of GSH-peroxidase, and not with the depletion of GSH. Addition of hydrogen peroxide, 15-hydroperoxyeicosatetraenoic acid, or inhibition of the lipoxygenase metabolic pathway by 4,7,10,13-eicosatetraynoic acid also induced a hypersensitive aggregation response to AA. These results suggest that the three modes of treatment share a common mechanism of increasing AA metabolism to biologically active prostaglandins and thromboxane A2 through alterations in cyclooxygenase kinetics and available enzyme substrate.
In this study a polymorphism in the conjugating activity of human erythrocyte cytosol towards the dihaloethane, ethylene dibromide (EDB; 1,2-dibromoethane) was found. Two out of 12 human erythrocyte cytosols did not catalyze the formation of glutathione (GSH) conjugates of [1,2-14C]EDB. Ten cytosols formed the S,S'-ethylenebis(GSH) conjugate at a rate ranging from 0.5 to 3.2 (mean 1.76 ± 0.95) pmol min-1 (mg protein)-1. The activity of the cytosols towards EDB was compared with the activity towards 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)-propane (EPNP) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). The GSH conjugates formed from EDB, EPNP and CDNB were all quantified by HPLC. Every cytosol was active with the classical GST substrate CDNB (2.04 ± 0.74 nmol min-1 (mg protein)-1). The two samples not showing any detectable activity towards EDB were also inactive towards EPNP: The activity towards EDB correlated significantly with EPNP (r(s) = 0.90, P 0.10). In the incubations with EPNP, the alpha-, mu-, and pi- class glutathione S-transferase (GST) inhibitor S-hexyl(GSH) was included, indicating that the class-theta GST is the principal GST class conjugating EDB in erythrocyte cytosol. The apparent polymorphism of GST-theta which has recently been recognized to be crucial for several mono- and dihalomethanes, will thus also have considerable implications for the risk assessment of EDB.
Specific activity, substrate specificity, and kinetic parameters (Km and Vmax) of glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) towards three substrates, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB), and p-nitrobenzene chloride (pNBC) were investigated in six tissues (foregut, midgut, hindgut, fat body, hemolymph, and muscle) of Oxya chinensis. In addition, the inhibition in vitro (ethacrynic acid, and Cibacron Blue 3GA) of Oxya chinensis in the six tissues was also investigated. Glutathione S-transferase activity was detected in all the six tissues examined. The rank order of GST activities towards CDNB was fat body > midgut > hindgut > muscle > foregut > hemolymph both in females and males. Glutathione S-transferase activities in the fat body in females and males were 1.3- to 10.4-fold and 1.1- to 10.0-fold higher than those in the other tissues. The rank order of GST activities towards the other substrates changed slightly. From these results, it was inferred that GSTs in the fat body and midgut played important roles in detoxifying xenobiotics including insecticides and plant allelochemicals in O. chinensis. In the three substrates examined, CDNB seemed to be the best substrate, followed by pNBC and DCNB. The kinetic parameters of GSTs were different among the six tissues. This suggested that GSTs in different tissues have various affinities and catalytic efficiency to substrates. In vitro inhibition study showed that the median inhibition concentration (IC50) values of the two inhibitois to GSTs from the six tissues were different. The results suggested that the two inhibitors have different inhibition potency to GSTs from the different tissues. The observed changes in kinetic parameters and inhibition in vitro among the six tissues of the insect might suggest that the number and structure of isoenzymes and their rate of expression varied for the different tissues.
BACKGROUND ::: Evaluation of skin sensitization potential is an important part of the safety assessment of cosmetic ingredients and topical drugs. Recently, evaluation of changes in surface marker expression induced in dendritic cells (DC) or DC surrogate cell lines following exposure to chemicals represents one approach for in vitro test methods. ::: ::: ::: OBJECTIVE ::: The study aimed to test the change of expression patterns of surface markers on THP-1 cells by chemicals as a predictive in vitro method for contact sensitization. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: We investigated the expression of CD54, CD86, CD83, CD80, and CD40 after a 1-day exposure to sensitizers (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene; 2,4-dinitrofluorobenzene; benzocaine; 5-chloro-2-methyl-4-isothiazolin-3-one; hexyl cinnamic aldehyde; eugenol; nickel sulfate hexahydrate; potassium dichromate; cobalt sulfate; 2-mercaptobenzothiazole; and ammonium tetrachloroplatinate) and non-sensitizers (sodium lauryl sulfate, benzalkonium chloride, lactic acid, salicylic acid, isopropanol, and dimethyl sulphoxide). The test concentrations were 0.1x, 0.5x, and 1x of the 50% inhibitory concentration, and the relative fluorescence intensity was used as an expression indicator. ::: ::: ::: RESULT AND CONCLUSION ::: By evaluating the expression patterns of CD54, CD86, and CD40, we could classify the chemicals as sensitizers or non-sensitizers, but CD80 and CD83 showed non-specific patterns of expression. These data suggest that the THP-1 cells are good model for screening contact sensitizers and CD40 could be a useful marker complementary to CD54 and CD86.
Glutathione-S-transferase (GST) activity has been examined in liver cytosol fractions from guinea pigs, mice, control fed rats or rats with pre-neoplastic nodular liver lesions. The levels of activity in unfractionated cytosols have been assayed using the model substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), 3,4-dichloronitrobenzene (DCNB) and monobromobimane (mBrB) with reduced glutathione (GSH). The order of activities in the various liver fractions using CDNB as substrate were: mouse greater than pre-neoplastic nodular rat greater than guinea pig greater than control rat and paralleled the capacities of the cytosols to catalyse the formation of aflatoxin B1-GSH from microsomally-activated aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) and GSH. Quantitative differences between the activities of the cytosols using the three model substrates were observed. In the mouse fractionation of GST activity by isoelectric focusing (I.E.F.) on preparative granular gels showed that the most basic component (isoelectric point pH 9.4) with the highest conjugating activity with respect to microsomally-activated AFB1 did not correspond with the peak of most activity for conjugating CDNB. In the pre-neoplastic nodular rat liver the CDNB conjugating activities of all fractions separated on granular I.E.F. gels, were higher than the corresponding fractions isolated from control rat liver, with particular enhancement of the peak containing the 3:3 isoenzyme. In contrast to control rat liver the 7:7 isoenzyme was detected in pre-neoplastic nodular liver preparations. These isoenzymes (3:3 and 7:7) did not contribute significantly to the enhanced level of AFB1-GSH formation catalysed by cytosol fractions prepared from pre-neoplastic nodular rat liver. The microsomally-activated AFB1-conjugating activity of unfractionated rat liver cytosols was increased to a relatively greater extent than CDNB conjugating activity during the induction of pre-neoplastic nodular liver lesions, and the elevated level of the activated AFB1-conjugating activity was found to be associated with the most basic fraction (isoelectric point pH 9.0). Analytical isoelectric focusing gels using mBrB as substrate demonstrated the presence of a basic GST isoenzyme in the pre-neoplastic nodular rat liver, not detected in preparations from the livers of control rats. The low level of activated AFB1-conjugating activity present in unfractionated guinea-pig cytosol was found to correspond with the fraction containing the peak of CDNB conjugating activity on preparative isoelectric focusing (isoelectric point pH 7.5). The lack of correlation between the conjugation of model substrates and the conjugation of xenobiotics could be of import
Abstract The impact of chemical treatment (oxidation, reduction) of microporous carbon prepared from plum stones on the structural parameters was analysed using the nitrogen adsorption method. The effects of pre-adsorption of 2,4,6-trinitrotoluene (TNT) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) on the characteristics of the interfacial water layers in the aqueous suspensions of these materials were explored using 1H NMR spectroscopy with freezing out of the bulk water between 210 and 273 K. Substantial variations in the Gibbs free energy of the interfacial water in the aqueous suspension of treated carbons were observed, especially for a reduced sample with pre-adsorbed nitroaromatics, due to changes in the hydrophilic–hydrophobic properties of the systems.
Aspergillus nidulans is a saprophytic ascomycete that utilizes a wide variety of nitrogen sources. We identified a sequence from A. nidulans similar to the glutathione S-transferase-like nitrogen regulatory domain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae Ure2. Cloning and sequencing of the gene, designated gstA, revealed it to be more similar to URE2 than the S. cerevisiae glutathione S-transferases. However, creation and analysis of a gstA deletion mutant revealed that the gene does not participate in nitrogen metabolite repression. Instead, it encodes a functional theta class glutathione S-transferase that is involved in resistance to a variety of xenobiotics and metals and confers susceptibility to the systemic fungicide carboxin. Northern analysis showed that gstA transcription is strongly activated upon exposure to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and weakly activated by oxidative stress or growth on galactose as a carbon source. These results suggest that nitrogen metabolite repression in A. nidulans does not involve a homolog of the S. cerevisiae URE2 gene and that the global nitrogen regulatory system differs significantly in these two fungi.
The ability of the soluble glutathione S-transferases to bind the membrane (liposome) bound substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and sulfobromophthalein was determined. The transferases were found to have access only to substrates in the aqueous phase. They could not not bind membrane-bound substrates and, thus, enzymatic activities were reduced by the membrane partitioning of the substrates. The reduction in enzymatic activity was directly proportional to the lipid solubility of the substrate. The liposomes had no direct effect on the enzyme per se. [35S]Sulfobromophthalein and [14C]chlorodinitrobenzene bound to liposomes were found to have rapid rates of release into the aqueous phase. Rates of hydration of chlorodinitrobenzene from liposomes were rapid enough such that rates of catalysis (measured in a stopped-flow spectrophotometer) were affected only by the partition coefficient of substrate between lipid phase and water, and not by the rate of transfer of substrate from lipid to water phase.
Summary Epoxide hydrase and glutathione (GSH) S-transferase activities were measured in subcellular fractions prepared from liver or hepatopancreas and some extrahepatic organs of a number of marine species common to Maine or Florida. These activities were easily detected in all the species studied. In fish, hepatic GSH S-transferase activities were normally higher than hepatic epoxide hydrase activities for the alkene oxide (styrene oxide and octene oxide) and arene oxide (benzo[a]pyrene4,5-oxide) substrates studied, whereas in Crustacea, hepatopancreas epoxide hydrase activities were higher than hepatopancreas GSH S-transferase activities with the same substrates. Extrahepatic organs from fish and crustacea usually had higher GSH S-transferase activities than epoxide hydrase activities with the alkene and arene oxide substrates. GSH S-transferase activity was also found in liver or hepatopancreas of every aquatic species studied and in a number of extrahepatic organs, when 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene or 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene served as substrate.
The activities and properties of glutathione S-transferases(GST) in the haemolymph of Chlamys farreri were assayed with the spectrophotometric method of 1-Chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene(CDNB).Effects of pH,temperature,and heavy metal irons on the activities of GST in the haemocytes were studied.In addition,the thermal stability was also tested.GST activity was found in both serum and haemocytes of Chlamys farreri,and GST activity in the haemocytes was higher than that in the serum.The optimum temperature range of GST in the haemocytes was from 20℃ to 35℃,with the optimum temperature at 30℃.GST lost its activity completely at the temperature of 60℃.At pH ranging from 7 to 8,the GST in the haemocytes showed higher activities,with the optimum pH at 7.5.After the lysate of haemocytes was incubated at different temperatures for 30 min,the activities of GST in the haemocytes became descending with the increasing of temperature.The activities value of GST at 35℃ was only 22% of that at 20℃.Moreover,the activity of GST was very unstable even under low temperature.Being incubated at 4℃ for 12h,GST lost 51% of its activities.Cu2+ and Pb2+ could inhibit the activities of GST.When the concentration of Cu2+ was below 2.5mg/L or Pb2+ was below 5mg/L,the activities of GST was descending with the increasing of heavy metal irons concentration.
Abstract This study compares the role of hepatic cytosolic glutathione transferases (cGST) isoforms of three different bivalve species to a Microcystis aeruginosa extract and purified MC-LR exposure (both at 150 μg MC-LR L −1 ) for 24 h. Characterization and alterations of the cytosolic GST activities in Mytilus galloprovincialis , Ruditapes philippinarum and Corbicula fluminea were measured using four class-specific substrates and changes in individual GST isoforms expression were achieved by a subsequent two-dimensional electrophoresis analysis. Evaluation of cGST activity basal levels using the four class-specific substrates denoted quantitative differences between the three bivalves. Purified MC-LR did not induce any significant response from bivalves. On the other hand, cell extracts caused significant alterations according to bivalves and substrates. Among the three bivalves, only R. philippinarum showed a significant induction of cGST activity using generic 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) substrate. However, no significant alterations were detected in these clams by cell extracts using the other specific substrates. In contrast, C. fluminea revealed significant induction of cGST activity when using 3,4-dichloronitrobenzene (DCNB) and ethacrynic acid (EA). In M. galloprovincialis , cell extracts promoted a significant decrease of cGST activity when using EA substrate. Altered protein expression was quantitatively detected upon exposure to cell extracts for one spot in R. philippinarum and another for C. fluminea , both upregulated (2.0 and 8.5-fold, respectively) and identified as a sigma1-class GST in the case of the first. The results showed that the three bivalves presented specific adaptive biotransformation responses to MCs and other cyanobacteria compounds supported by the modulation of distinct cGST classes.
Multidrug resistance (MDR) is a phenomenon associated with the emergence of simultaneous cross-resistance to the cytotoxic action of a wide variety of structurally and functionally unrelated antineoplastic agents. The present study was undertaken to determine if 8226 human myeloma cells possessing the MDR phenotype had an increased ability to resist the intercalating drug doxorubicin (DOX) via glutathione-based detoxification systems. Glutathione S-transferase (GST) was isolated by affinity chromatography, and the enzyme activity was assessed using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and glutathione (GSH) as substrates. There was no difference in overall GST activity between the sensitive and resistant cells. Using a cDNA probe (pGTSS1-2) for the human placental, anionic GST isoenzyme, no overexpression of mRNA for this isoenzyme was noted in the resistant line. When glutathione peroxidase activity (GSH-px) was assessed using either H2O2 or cumene hydroperoxide as substrate, again there was no difference in enzyme activity. Non-protein sulfhydryl (NPSH) levels were found to be elevated significantly in the resistant 8226/DOX40 subline (19.2 +/- 0.1 nmol NPSH/10(6) cells) as compared to the drug-sensitive parental subline 8226/S (11.6 +/- 1.9 nmol NPSH/10(6) cells) (P less than 0.001). In addition, when the 8226/DOX40 cells were cultured in medium without doxorubicin, there was a consistent decline in NPSH values reaching a steady state identical to that of the 8226/S cells. However, the decrease in NPSH level was not accompanied by a change in the level of doxorubicin resistance as assessed by colony-forming assays. Depletion of glutathione by D,L-buthionine-S,R-sulfoximine had no effect on doxorubicin sensitivity in either subline. Thus, it appears that GSH-based detoxification systems are not causally involved in maintaining the MDR phenotype in 8226 human myeloma cells; rather they appear to comprise an epiphenomenon associated with the resistance selection procedure.
The effects of a subclinical fascioliasis at various stages of its development (at week 3, 6 and 9 after infection by oral administration of 20 metacercariae of Fasciola hepatica) in rats were determined on the activity of enzymes involved in liver metabolism of glutathione and on the subunit pattern of cytosolic glutathione S-transferase. The parasitic pathology was ascertained by clinical observation of the rats and at autopsy. Hepatic microsomal cytochrome P-450 content was significantly decreased in infected rats by week 3 and 6 post-infection. Not correlatively, the catalytic activities of glutathione S-transferase towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene were significantly lowered in last stages of the experimental fascioliasis (by week 6 and 9 post-infection). These decreases were correlated to that of subunit 1 as determined by means of high-performance liquid chromatography of cytosolic proteins whereas subunit 6 could also be decreased. Fascioliasis did not alter cytosolic glutathione, glutathione reductase and glutathione peroxidase activities or plasma glutathione S-transferase activity accepting 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as the substrate.
Abstract Murine protein serine–threonine kinase 38 (MPK38) is a member of the AMP‐activated protein kinase-related serine/threonine kinase family. The factors that regulate MPK38 activity and function are not yet elucidated. Here, thioredoxin (Trx) was shown to be a negative regulator of MPK38. The redox-dependent association of MPK38 and Trx was mediated through the C‐terminal domain of MPK38. Single and double amino acid substitution mutagenesis of MPK38 (C286S, C339S, C377S, and C339S/C377S) and Trx (C32S, C35S, and C32S/C35S) demonstrated that Cys 339 and Cys 377 of MPK38 and Cys 32 and Cys 35 of Trx are required for MPK38–Trx complex formation. MPK38 directly interacted with and phosphorylated Trx at Thr 76 . Expression of wild‐type Trx, but not the Trx mutants C32S/C35S and T76A, inhibited MPK38‐induced ASK1, TGF‐β, and p53 function by destabilizing MPK38. The E3 ubiquitin–protein ligase Mdm2 played a critical role in the regulation of MPK38 stability by Trx. Treatment of cells with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, a specific inhibitor of Trx reductase, decreased MPK38–Trx complex formation and subsequently increased MPK38 stability and activity, indicating that Trx negatively regulates MPK38 activity in vivo. Finally, we used ASK1-, Smad3-, and p53-null mouse embryonic fibroblasts to demonstrate that ASK1, Smad3, and p53 play important roles in the activity and function of MPK38, suggesting a functional link between MPK38 and ASK1, TGF-β, and p53 signaling pathways. These results indicate that Trx functions as a physiological inhibitor of MPK38, which plays an important role in inducing ASK1-, TGF‐β-, and p53-mediated activity.
A labile GSH transferase homodimer termed 11-11 was purified from rat testis by GSH-agarose affinity chromatography followed by anion-exchange f.p.l.c. The enzyme is unstable in the absence of thiol(s) and has relatively low affinity for both 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (Km 4.4 mM) and GSH (Km(app.) 4.4mM). Its mobility on SDS/polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis is slightly less than that of subunits 3 and 4 and its pI is 5.2. Subunit 11 has a blocked N-terminal amino acid residue, but after CNBr cleavage fragments accounting for 113 amino acid residues were sequenced and showed 65% homology with corresponding sequences in subunit 4, indicating that it is a member of the Mu family. GSH transferase 11 is a major isoenzyme in testis, epididymis, prostate and brain and present at lower concentrations in other tissues.
Treatment of male Fischer 344 rats with various hypolipidemic drugs of different peroxisome proliferating potency (1-benzylimidazole, acetylsalicylic acid, clofibrate, tiadenol) led to an induction of liver lauric acid hydroxylase, whereas probucol, which is not a peroxisome proliferator, did not induce this enzyme. Activity of bilirubin UDP-glucuronosyltransferase was increased by all the compounds tested. The highest increase was observed after treatment with acetylsalicylic acid (2.3-fold). High correlation (r = 0.953) was observed between the activities of lauric acid hydroxylase and the corresponding activities of cytosolic epoxide hydrolase reported previously. The amount of microsomal epoxide hydrolase was not changed by any of the compounds. Whereas clofibrate and tiadenol decreased glutathione S-transferase activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate, 1-benzylimidazole and probucol increased this activity. With 4-hydroxynonenal as a substrate qualitatively the same results were obtained with the exception that probucol did not affect the enzyme activity. When glutathione S-transferase activity was measured with cis-stilbene oxide as substrate only the more than five-fold increase after treatment with 1-benzylimidazole was significantly different from control values. Activity of dihydrodiol dehydrogenase was increased after treatment of rats with 1-benzylimidazole (1.5-fold), whereas application of tiadenol led to a decrease of enzyme activity. Feeding of male guinea pigs with clofibrate did not change the activity of peroxisomal beta-oxidation, cytosolic epoxide hydrolase or lauric acid hydroxylase. However, treatment with tiadenol caused an increase of these activities.
Ethacrynic acid and piriprost (6,9-deepoxy-6,9-(phenylimino)-delta 6,8-prostaglandin I1) have been shown to potentiate the cytotoxic activity of chlorambucil in rat and human tumor cell lines. Walker 256 rat breast carcinoma cells (WS), with acquired resistance to nitrogen mustards (WR), and two human colon carcinoma cell lines, HT 29 and BE, were sensitized to chlorambucil when either ethacrynic acid or piriprost was administered at the same time as the alkylating agent. Both as single agents and in combination with chlorambucil, there was inhibition of glutathione S-transferase activity as measured with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as a substrate. A depletion in intracellular glutathione was also evident following ethacrynic acid alone or in combination with chlorambucil. Thus, diuretic plant phenols or prostaglandin analogues may have potential therapeutic utility in combination with alkylating agents.
Abstract We studied Abcc mediated-transport in middle and posterior intestine of the rainbow trout, Oncorhynchus mykiss. Luminal and serosal transport were evaluated in everted and non-everted intestinal sacs, respectively, incubated with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB; 200 μM). CDNB enters the cells and is conjugated with glutathione via glutathione S-transferase (GST) to form 2,4-dinitrophenyl-S-glutathione (DNP-SG), a known Abcc substrate. DNP-SG concentration in the bath was recorded every 10 min, in order to calculate the mass-specific transport rate. For evaluating the possible involvement of Abcc proteins in microcystin-LR (MCLR) transport, 1.135 μM MCLR was added to the bath or inside the sacs, in everted or non-everted preparations, respectively. Both luminal and serosal DNP-SG efflux were significantly inhibited by MCLR. A concentration–response curve obtained using strips from middle intestine yielded an IC50 value of 1.33 μM MCLR. The Abcc inhibitor, MK571 produced concentration-dependent inhibition of DNP-SG similar to that produced by MCLR. Since competition of MCLR and CDNB as GST substrates could bias the DNP-SG transport results, we evaluated the effects of MCLR on calcein efflux, which does not depend on GST activity. We applied the non-fluorescent, cell-permeant compound calcein-AM (0.25 μM) to middle intestinal strips and recorded the efflux of its hydrolysis product, the fluorescent Abcc substrate calcein. 2.27 μM MCLR and 3 μM MK571 inhibited calcein efflux (17.39 and 20.2%, respectively). Finally, MCLR interaction with Abcc transporters was evaluated by measuring its toxic intracellular effects. Middle intestinal segments were incubated in saline solution with 1.135 μM MCLR (MC1), 2.27 μM MCLR (MC2), 3 μM MK571 (MK) or 1.135 μM MCLR + 3 μM MK571 (MC1/MK). After 1 h, GSH concentration, protein phosphatase 1 and 2A (PP1, PP2A) and GST activities were measured in each segment. MC1did not produce significant effect while MC1/MK and MC2 significantly inhibited PP1and PP2A in similar proportions (34–49%). MK alone significantly increased PP2A activity (40%) with no effect in any other variable. GST activity and GSH concentration were not affected by any treatment. Concentration–response curves for MCLR (1.135 to 13.62 μM) alone or plus 3 or 6 μM MK571 were obtained using PP1 activity as response variable. The IC50 values were 1.0, 0.52, and 0.37 μM, respectively. Our results suggest that O. mykiss enterocytes are capable of eliminating MCLR by GST-mediated conjugation and luminal excretion through an Abcc-like apical transporter. This mechanism would prevent toxic effects and reduce the toxin uptake into the blood, which is likely mediated by basolateral Abccs.
Step 4: Unbound proteins are washed off, followed by the addition of GST enzyme substrate consisting of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and reduced glutathione (GSH). Formation of the reaction productglutathione conjugated to CDNB (GS-CDNB)is measured by absorbance at 340 nm. Figure S1 . Principle of the colorimetric plate-based GST-GGA3 binding assay.
Specific activity, substrate specificity, and kinetic parameters (K m and V max ) of glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) towards three substrates, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB), and p-nitrobenzene chloride (pNBC) were investigated in six tissues (foregut, midgut, hindgut, fat body, hemolymph, and muscle) of Oxya chinensis. In addition, the inhibition in vitro (ethacrynic acid, and Cibacron Blue 3GA) of Oxya chinensis in the six tissues was also investigated. Glutathione S-transferase activity was detected in all the six tissues examined. The rank order of GST activities towards CDNB was fat body > midgut > hindgut > muscle > foregut > hemolymph both in females and males. Glutathione S-transferase activities in the fat body in females and males were 1.3-to 10.4-fold and 1.1-to 10.0-fold higher than those in the other tissues. The rank order of GST activities towards the other substrates changed slightly. From these results, it was inferred that GSTs in the fat body and midgut played important roles in detoxifying xenobiotics including insecticides and plant allelochemicals in O. chinensis. In the three substrates examined, CDNB seemed to be the best substrate, followed by pNBC and DCNB. The kinetic parameters of GSTs were different among the six tissues. This suggested that GSTs in different tissues have various affinities and catalytic efficiency to substrates. In vitro inhibition study showed that the median inhibition concentration (IC 50 ) values of the two inhibitors to GSTs from the six tissues were different. The results suggested that the two inhibitors have different inhibition potency to GSTs from the different tissues. The observed changes in kinetic parameters and inhibition in vitro among the six tissues of the insect might suggest that the number and structure of isoenzymes and their rate of expression varied for the different tissues.
Aspergillus nidulans is a saprophytic ascomycete that utilizes a wide variety of nitrogen sources. We identified a sequence from A. nidulans similar to the glutathione S-transferase-like nitrogen regulatory domain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae Ure2. Cloning and sequencing of the gene, designated gstA, revealed it to be more similar to URE2 than the S. cerevisiae glutathione S-transferases. However, creation and analysis of a gstA deletion mutant revealed that the gene does not participate in nitrogen metabolite repression. Instead, it encodes a functional theta class glutathione S-transferase that is involved in resistance to a variety of xenobiotics and metals and confers susceptibility to the systemic fungicide carboxin. Northern analysis showed that gstA transcription is strongly activated upon exposure to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and weakly activated by oxidative stress or growth on galactose as a carbon source. These results suggest that nitrogen metabolite repression in A. nidulans does not involve a homolog of the S. cerevisiae URE2 gene and that the global nitrogen regulatory system differs significantly in these two fungi.
In the present study, the mRNA levels of hepatic proteins involved in the drug metabolism of rats fed a-lipoic acid were evaluated by DNA microarray and real-time PCR analyses. Experimental diets containing 0, 0·1, 0·25 and 0·5 % (w/w) a-lipoic acid were fed to four groups of rats consisting of seven animals each for 21 d. DNA microarray analysis revealed that the diet containing 0·5 % a-lipoic acid significantly (P,0·05) increased the mRNA levels of various phase I drug-metabolising enzymes up to 15-fold and phase II enzymes up to 52-fold in an isoenzyme-specific manner. a-Lipoic acid also up-regulated the mRNA levels of some members of the ATP-binding cassette transporter superfamily, presumed to be involved in the exportation of xenobiotics, up to 6·6-fold. In addition, we observed that a-lipoic acid increased the mRNA levels of many proteins involved in antioxidation, such as members of the thiol redox system (up to 5·5-fold), metallothioneins (up to 12-fold) and haeme oxygenase 1 (1·5-fold). These results were confirmed using real-time PCR analysis, and a-lipoic acid dose dependently increased the mRNA levels of various proteins involved in drug metabolism and antioxidation. Consistent with these observations, a-lipoic acid dose dependently increased the hepatic concentration of glutathione and the activities of glutathione reductase and glutathione transferase measured using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene as substrates, but decreased the hepatic and serum concentrations of malondialdehyde. In conclusion, the present study unequivocally demonstrated that a-lipoic acid increases the mRNA expression of proteins involved in drug metabolism and antioxidation in the liver.
A monoclonal antibody against rat liver glutathione S-transferase B, which consists of subunits Ya (Mr 27,000) and Yc (Mr 29,500), was produced in a mouse hybridoma system. The monoclonal antibody, BE6Yc1, was of the immunoglobulin G1 class and specifically recognized glutathione S-transferase B showing no cross-reactivity against the dimeric form of Ya, ligandin, in enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. A glutathione S-transferase B-BE6Yc1 monoclonal antibody complex was identified from the zymogram pattern on starch gel electrophoresis. On sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of rat liver glutathione S-transferase B, followed by Western blotting with BE6Yc1 antibody, a single polypeptide with a molecular weight of 29,500, identical to the Yc subunit of rat liver glutathione S-transferase B, was identified. The antibody showed no cross-reactivity with the Ya subunit with a molecular weight of 27,000 of either glutathione S-transferase B or ligandin. These results show that there are at least two distinct epitopes in the Ya and the Yc subunit. The monoclonal antibody did not block the catalytic activity of glutathione S-transferase B toward cumene hydroperoxide and possibly also 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Quantitative differences in expression of the Yc subunit of glutathione S-transferases were demonstrated in extracts of various normal tissues with the BE6Yc1 antibody by Western blot analysis. The Yc subunit was found to be present at much lower levels in kidney, small intestine, spleen, and lung than in liver and testis.
The synthesis and the binding affinity for the putative adenosine receptor antagonist 6-methyl-7-[1,2,3]triazol-2-yl-1,6-dihydrobenzo[1,2-d;3,4-d']diimidazole (10) and 5-oxazol-2-yl-1H-pyrazolo[4,3-b]pyridin-3-ylamine (16) are reported. The title compounds were prepared from commercially available 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (1) and 2-chloro-6-methoxy-3nitropyridine (11), respectively, but proved devoid of affinity for the adenosine A1 and A2A receptors.
Abstract A critical analysis of the inactivation kinetics exhibited by the acidic human glutathione S-transferase (GST) enzymes is presented. Data on the 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB)-facilitated inactivation of human placental GST π have been utilized in conjunction with published inactivation data from the literature to answer the following two questions: (a) do the inactivation kinetics deviate significantly from a simple pseudo first-order model? (b) What is the kinetic mechanism of irreversible electrophilic co-substrate-mediated inactivation of human acidic GSTs? Inactivation of human placental GST π in the presence of 7-aminocephalosporanic acid, a non-electrophilic non-substrate ligand, is characterized and shown to occur via a process analogous to the second mechanism proposed for CDNB inactivation of the enzyme, namely: pH- and [ligand]-independent solvational inactivation.
The activity of in vitro glutathione S-transferase towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was examined in liver, renal cortex, and small intestine (duodenum, jejunum, ileum) after the in vivo treatment of male Wistar rats with streptozotocin or alloxan. The studies were performed at 2, 10, 24, and 48 h and 7 and 15 days after streptozotocin treatment or 24 and 48 h after alloxan treatment. The results indicated that while the blood levels of insulin-glucose did not show variations, there were no alterations of the glutathione S-transferase activity in the tissues tested. On the other hand, when the treatments caused modifications on blood insulin-glucose levels, there were changes of glutathione S-transferase activity in all tissues (except in the ileum) in such a way that a direct relationship between plasma insulin levels and glutathione S-transferase activity could be demonstrated. These results were also confirmed through insulin administration to control and diabetic rats. The data demonstrate a possible regulation of glutathione S-transferase activity by blood insulin and (or) glucose levels in the tissues tested.
Poultry are the most susceptible food animal species to the toxic effects of the mycotoxin aflatoxin B(1) (AFB(1)). Feed contaminated with even small amounts of AFB(1) results in significant adverse health effects in poultry. The purpose of this study was to explain the biochemical mechanism(s) for this extreme sensitivity. We measured microsomal activation of AFB(1) to the AFB(1)-8,9-epoxide (AFBO), the putative toxic intermediate, as well as cytosolic glutathione S-transferase (GST)-mediated detoxification of AFBO, in addition to other hepatic phase I and phase II enzyme activities, in 3-week-old male Oorlop strain turkeys. Liver microsomes prepared from these turkeys activated AFB(1) in vitro with an apparent K(m) of 109 microM and a V(max) of 1.25 nmol/mg/min. Preliminary evidence for the involvement of cytochromes P450 (CYP) 1A2 and, to a lesser extent, 3A4 for AFB(1) activation was assessed by the use of specific mammalian CYP inhibitors. The possible presence of avian orthologues of these CYPs was supported by activity toward ethoxyresorufin and nifedipine, as well as by Western immunoblotting using antibodies to human CYPs. Cytosol prepared from turkey livers exhibited GST-mediated conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and 3,4-dichloronitrobenzene (DCNB), but at a much lower rate than that observed in other species. Western immunoblotting indicated the presence of alpha and sigma class GSTs and another AFB(1)-detoxifying enzyme, AFB(1)-aldehyde reductase (AFAR). Turkey liver cytosol also had quinone oxidoreductase (QOR) activity. Importantly, cytosol exhibited no measurable GST-mediated detoxification of microsomally activated AFB(1), indicating that turkeys are deficient in the most crucial AFB(1)-detoxification pathway. In total, our data indicate that the extreme sensitivity of turkeys to AFB(1) may be attributed to a combination of efficient AFB(1) activation and deficient detoxification by phase II enzymes, such as GSTs.
Abstract The relative levels of representative midgut detoxifying enzymes were measured in last instar larvae of Heliothis zea and Spodoptera frugiperda after the insects had been fed for 48 h on diets containing representative trichothecenes, which are protein synthesis inhibitors. 4-Nitroanisole O -demethylation was induced (as indicated by increased enzyme activity) by 1.6-fold in H. zea and by 6.1-fold in S. frugiperda when fed 250 ppm of deoxynivalenol, a dose that severely retarded growth of the insects. Induction of this activity was also noted with lower levels of deoxynivalenol in both species, and with diacetoxyscirpenol and T-2 toxin in H. zea. 1-Chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene glutathione transferase conjugation was induced by c . 1.3-fold with deoxynivalenol at 250 ppm and 25 ppm, and with T-2 toxin at 25 ppm in H. zea ; but was slightly inhibited ( c . 10–20%) in S. frugiperda in some cases. 1-Naphthyl acetate hydrolysis was generally unaffected by all trichothecenes tested at all doses in H. zea , but was inhibited by c . 30% in S. frugiperda by lower doses of all three trichothecenes. However, a new 1-naphthyl acetate esterase band was noted after exposure to 250 ppm of deoxynivalenol, and to some extent lower doses of deoxynivalenol and the other trichothecenes in both insect species. The hydrolysis of a radiolabeled model trichothecene, 4-monoacetoxyscripenol, was induced by 3.1-fold in H. zea and 2.7-fold in S. frugiperda with 250 ppm of deoxynivalenol (the only compound and dose tested). This activity could be inhibited by nearly 100% with 10 −4 M paraoxon, suggesting a serine-hydroxyl esterase was involed. Although this activity could not be recovered from gels, indirect competitive inhibition assays with 1-naphthyl acetate suggested the induced band could be responsible for some of the hydrolysis of the 4-monoacetoxyscirpenol.
Abstract A membrane-associated aromatic nitroreductase activity was identified in cell-free extracts of the lignin-degrading fungus Phanerochaete chrysosporium . The enzyme catalyzed the nitro group reduction of 1,3-dinitrobenzene, 2,4-dinitrotoluene, 2,4,6-trinitrotoluene, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, and 2,4-dichloro-1-nitrobenzene. The corresponding hydroxylamines and/or amines were identified as reaction products by HPLC and/or GC-MS. 1-Nitroso-3-nitrobenzene and 1-hydroxylamino-3-nitrobenzene also were reduced by the enzyme, suggesting they were intermediates in the reaction. The enzyme required NAD(P)H as a cosubstrate and the optimal pH and temperature for the reaction were 6.5 and 50°C, respectively. Enzyme activity was not observed in the presence of molecular oxygen. The membrane-associated enzyme could be solubilized with the nonionic detergent Triton X-100.
PmGSTB1-1 (Proteus mirabilis glutathione S-transferase B1-1) has two tryptophan residues at positions 97 and 164 in each monomer. Structural data for this bacterial enzyme indicated that Trp97 is positioned in the helix a4, whereas Trp164 is located at the bottom of the helix a6 in the xenobiotic-binding site. To elucidate the role of the two tryptophan residues they were replaced by site-directed mutagenesis. Trp97 and Trp164 were mutated to either phenylalanine or alanine. A double mutant was also constructed. The effects of the replacement on the activity, structural properties and antibiotic-binding capacity of the enzymes were examined. On the basis of the results obtained, Trp97 does not seem to be involved in the enzyme active site and structural stabilization. In contrast, different results were achieved for Trp164 mutants. Conservative substitution of the Trp164 with phenylalanine enhanced enzyme activity 10-fold, whereas replacement with alanine enhanced enzyme activity 17-fold. Moreover, the catalytic efficiency for both GSH and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene substrates improved. In particular, the catalytic efficiency for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene improved for both W164F (Trp164-->Phe) and W164A by factors of 7- and 22-fold respectively. These results are supported by molecular graphic analysis. In fact, W164A presented a more extensive substrate-binding pocket that could allow the substrates to be better accommodated. Furthermore, both Trp164 mutants were significantly more thermolabile than wild-type, suggesting that the substitution of this residue affects the overall stability of the enzyme. Taken together, these results indicate that Trp164 is an important residue of PmGSTB1-1 in the catalytic process as well as for protein stability.
Abstract The effects of orchidectomy and hormone replacement on glutathione S -transferase activities in adult male rat liver were investigated. Due to the overlapping yet distinct substrate specificities of the hepatic glutathione S -transferases, we measured activity in cytosol toward four substrates: 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, trans -4-phenylbut-3-en-2-one and p -nitrobenzyl chloride. Orchidectomy resulted in a decrease in transferase activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, trans -4-phenylbut-3-en-2-one and p -nitrobenzyl chloride to 76, 64 and 70% of control. In contrast, transferase activity toward 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene was increased to 137% of control. To determine the role of specific androgens in the hormonal dependence of the glutathione S -transferases, rats were subcutaneously implanted for 4 weeks with either blank or steroid-filled sustained-release capsules at the time of orchidectomy. Transferase activities toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene or p -nitrobenzyl chloride were increased to control levels by testosterone but not by any of its 5α-reduced metabolites. Transferase activity toward trans -4-phenylbut-3-en-2-one was increased to control level by either dihydrotestosterone or 5α-androstan-3-α, 17β-diol. Activity toward 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene was decreased to control level by all of the androgens studied, testosterone, dihydrotestosterone, 5α-androstan-3β,17β-diol or 5α-androstan-3α,17β-diol. Thus, the hepatic glutathione S -transferases are under separate control and are differentially regulated by testosterone and its 5α-reduced metabolites.
We have shown previously that nitric oxide (NO) is generated from nitroglycerin (NTG) through enzyme-mediated reactions in the bovine coronary artery smooth muscle cell, but it is not known whether this metabolic conversion plays a significant role in the pharmacologic action of NTG, viz. relaxation. In this study, we developed a technique that allowed direct measurement of NO from intact bovine coronary arterial rings that were incubated previously with NTG, and examined whether changes in NTG-induced relaxation were accompanied by parallel changes in NO generation. Co-incubation of the vascular preparations with a potent inhibitor of glutathione-S-transferases (GSTs), bromosulfophthalein (up to 200 microM), did not affect NTG-induced relaxation, nor did it alter NO generation from NTG in the preparation. In contrast, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), a GST substrate, inhibited NO generation as well as the relaxation response of NTG in the intact vascular tissue preparation. CDNB, however, did not decrease the relaxant responses of nifedipine and isoproterenol. Thus, the inhibitory effect of CDNB on NTG-induced relaxation and NO production appeared specific. When bovine coronary rings were made tolerant to NTG by pretreatment with 0.44 mM NTG for 1 hr, the EC50 was shifted to the right 162-fold, and NO generation was also reduced in intact rings and tissue homogenates. However, when the homogenates were further subfractionated to microsomes and cytosols, or when homogenates were allowed to stand for a similar time period necessary for subfractionation, the difference in NO production from control versus tolerant tissue preparations disappeared. It is possible, therefore, that the NTG-induced tolerance process might have been partially reversed during this time period. Results of this study identified CDNB as an apparently specific inhibitor of NTG action, but showed that GST-mediated reactions were probably not involved in the metabolic activation of NTG. Our results also indicated that tissue NO generation from NTG was positively related to the relaxation responses generated by this nitrovasodilator.
The effect of rifampicin on contact sensitivity to DNCB (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene) was studied in outbred guinea pigs. The administration of rifampicin in a dose of 30 mg/kg body weight prior to an
Certain chemicals referred to as herbicide antidotes protect sorghum from injury by chloroacetanilide herbicides such as metolachlor. The effect of herbicide antidotes on the glutathione S-transferase isozyme complement of etiolated sorghum (Sorghum bicolor [L.] Moench) shoots was examined. Elution profiles of glutathione S-transferase isozymes from untreated and antidote-treated seedlings were generated by fast protein liquid chromatography utilizing an anion exchange (Mono Q) column. In untreated seedlings, there were two glutathione S-transferase isozymes, a major isozyme which exhibited activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and a minor isozyme which exhibited activity toward metolachlor. Treating sorghum seedlings with various antidotes (flurazole, oxabetrinil, CGA-133205, naphthalic anhydride, dichlormid) resulted in the appearance of four to five additional glutathione S-transferase isozymes (de-pending on the particular antidote) which exhibited activity toward metolachlor as a substrate and little or no activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Treating etiolated sorghum shoots with metolachlor was also found to induce at least four isozymes which exhibited activity toward the herbicide. An increase in glutathione S-transferase activity, measured with metolachlor as substrate, was detected within 4 h after treatment with 30 micromolar oxabetrinil, but 36 hours were required for maximum expression of activity. Addition of either the transcription inhibitor cordycepin or the translation inhibitor cycloheximide inhibited the appearance of glutathione S-transferase activity measured with metolachlor as substrate. The results are consistent with the hypothesis that antidotes confer protection against metolachlor injury in sorghum by inducing the de novo synthesis of glutathione S-transferase isozymes which catalyze the detoxification of the herbicide.
Fascioliasis is a worldwide parasitic disease in human and domestic animals. The causative agents of fascioliasis are Fasciola hepatica and Fasciola gigantica. In the recent years, fasciola resistance to drugs has been reported in the many of publications. Fasciola spp has detoxification system including GST enzyme which may be responsible for its resistance. Therefore , the aim of the study was to assay of GST enzyme activity in fasciola parasites. Fasciola gigantica and Fasciola hepatica helminths were collected from abattoir as a live and cultured in buffer media for 4 h at 37 °C. Excretory-Secretory products were collected and stored in -80◦C. F. gigantica and Fasciola hepatica were homogenized with homogenizing buffer in a glass homogenizer to prepare of somatic extract. Suspension was then centrifuged and supernatant was stored at -80°C. In order to assay the enzyme activity, excretory-secretory and somatic extracts in the form of cocktails (potassium phosphate buffer, reduced glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene substrates) were prepared and their absorbance recorded for 5 minutes at 340 nm. The total and specific GST activity of F. gigantica somatic and ES products were obtained as 2916.00, 272.01 micromole/minute and 1.33, 1.70 micromole/minute/mg protein, respectively. Fasciola hepatica also showed 2705.00, 276.86 micromole/minute and 1.33, 1.52 micromole/minute/mg protein, respectively. These results are important for analysis of parasite survival / resistance to drugs which use for treatment of fascioliasis.
The site-specific function of multidrug-resistance-associated proteins (MRPs), especially MRP2 and MRP3, was examined in rat intestine and human colon adenocarcinoma (Caco-2) cells. The MRP function was evaluated pharmacokinetically by measuring the efflux transport of 2,4-dinitrophenyl-S-glutathione (DNP-SG), an MRP substrate, after application of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), a precursor of DNP-SG. The expression of rat and human MRP2 and MRP3 was analysed by Western blotting. The rat jejunum exhibited a higher apical MRP2 and a lower basolateral MRP3 expression than ileum. In accordance with the expression level, DNP-SG efflux to the mucosal surface was significantly greater in jejunum, while serosal efflux was greater in ileum. Site-specific bidirectional efflux of DNP-SG was also observed in in-vivo studies, in which portal and femoral plasma levels and biliary excretion rate of DNP-SG were significantly higher when CDNB was administered to ileum. Caco-2 cells also showed a bidirectional efflux of DNP-SG. Probenecid, an MRP inhibitor, significantly suppressed the mucosal efflux in jejunum and serosal efflux in ileum. In contrast, probenecid significantly suppressed both apical and basolateral efflux of DNP-SG in Caco-2 cells, though the inhibition was of small magnitude. In conclusion, the efflux of DNP-SG from enterocytes mediated by MRPs exhibited a significant regional difference in rat intestine, indicating possible variability in intestinal bioavailabilities of MRP substrates, depending on their absorption sites along the intestine.
Energy-dependent rapid drug efflux is believed to be a major factor in cellular resistance to doxorubicin (DOX). However, several recent studies have demonstrated that cellular DOX retention alone does not always correlate with its cytotoxicity and suggest that mechanisms other than rapid drug efflux may also be important. In the present study, we have compared glutathione (GSH) S-transferase (GST), selenium-dependent GSH peroxidase and selenium-independent GSH peroxidase II activities in DOX-sensitive (P388/S) and resistant (P388/R) mouse leukemic cells. The GST activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and ethacrynic acid (EA) was markedly higher in P388/R cells compared to P388/S cells. Purification of GST by GSH-affinity chromatography from an equal number of P388/S and P388/R cells revealed an increased amount of GST protein in P388/R cells. Immunological studies indicated that alpha and pi type GST isoenzymes were 1.27- and 2.2-fold higher, respectively, in P388/R cells compared to P388/S cells. Selenium-dependent GSH peroxidase activity was similar in both the cell lines, whereas selenium-independent GSH peroxidase II activity was approximately 1.36-fold higher in P388/R cells compared to P388/S cells. These results suggest that increased GSH peroxidase II activity in P388/R cells may contribute to cellular DOX resistance by enhancing free radical detoxification in this cell line.
PmGSTB1-1 (Proteus mirabilis glutathione S-transferase B1-1) has two tryptophan residues at positions 97 and 164 in each monomer. Structural data for this bacterial enzyme indicated that Trp 97 is positioned in the helix α4, whereas Trp 164 is located at the bottom of the helix α6 in the xenobiotic-binding site. To elucidate the role of the two tryptophan residues they were replaced by site-directed mutagenesis. Trp 97 and Trp 164 were mutated to either phenylalanine or alanine. A double mutant was also constructed. The effects of the replacement on the activity, structural properties and antibiotic-binding capacity of the enzymes were examined. On the basis of the results obtained, Trp 97 does not seem to be involved in the enzyme active site and structural stabilization. In contrast, different results were achieved for Trp 164 mutants. Conservative substitution of the Trp 164 with phenylalanine enhanced enzyme activity 10-fold, whereas replacement with alanine enhanced enzyme activity 17-fold. Moreover, the catalytic efficiency for both GSH and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene substrates improved. In particular, the catalytic efficiency for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene improved for both W164F (Trp 164 → Phe) and W164A by factors of 7-and 22-fold respectively. These results are supported by molecular graphic analysis. In fact, W164A presented a more extensive substrate-binding pocket that could allow the substrates to be better accommodated. Furthermore, both Trp 164 mutants were significantly more thermolabile than wild-type, suggesting that the substitution of this residue affects the overall stability of the enzyme. Taken together, these results indicate that Trp 164 is an important residue of PmGSTB1-1 in the catalytic process as well as for protein stability.
The ability of the liver and small intestine for secretion of dinitrophenyl-S-glutathione (DNP-SG), a substrate for multidrug resistance-associated protein 2 (Mrp2), into bile and lumen, respectively, as well as expression of Mrp2 in both tissues, were assessed in 70-75% hepatectomized rats. An in vivo perfused intestinal model was used. A single iv dose of 30 mmol/kg b.w. of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was administered and its glutathione conjugate, DNP-SG, was determined by HPLC in bile and intestinal perfusate. One and seven days after hepatectomy, biliary excretion of DNP-SG was decreased by 90 and 50% with respect to shams, respectively, when expressed per mass unit. In contrast, intestinal excretion was increased by 63% or unchanged one and seven days post-hepatectomy, respectively. Tissue content of DNP-SG 5 min after CDNB administration was substantially decreased in liver and significantly increased in intestine, one day post-hepatectomy. Western and immunofluorescence studies revealed preserved levels and localization of Mrp2 in both tissues from hepatectomized animals, irrespective of the time analyzed. In spite of preserved expression of Mrp2, the higher availability of DNP-SG in intestinal cells, likely as a consequence of increased glutathione-S-transferasemediated conjugation of CDNB, may explain the in vivo findings. Further experiments in isolated hepatocytes suggested that decreased synthesis of DNP-SG rather than altered canalicular transport is responsible for the substantial impairment in excretion of this compound into bile. Taken together, these results indicate that the intestine may partially compensate for liver DNP-SG disposition, particularly shortly after surgery, while liver capability is recovering.
Small molecule-based electrophilic compounds such as 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and 1-chloro-4-nitrobenzene (CNB) are currently being used as inhibitors of cysteine- and selenocysteine-containing proteins. CDNB has been used extensively to determine the activity of glutathione S-transferase and to deplete glutathione (GSH) in mammalian cells. Also, CDNB has been shown to irreversibly inhibit thioredoxin reductase (TrxR), a selenoenzyme that catalyses the reduction of thioredoxin (Trx). Mammalian TrxR has a C-terminal active site motif, Gly-Cys-Sec-Gly, and both the cysteine and selenocysteine residues could be the targets of the electrophilic reagents. In this paper we report on the stability of a series of cysteine and selenocysteine derivatives that can be considered as models for the selenoenzyme-inhibitor complexes. We show that these derivatives react with H2O2 to generate the corresponding selenoxides, which undergo spontaneous elimination to produce dehydroalanine. In contrast, the cysteine derivatives are stable towards such elimination reactions. We also demonstrate, for the first time, that the arylselenium species eliminated from the selenocysteine derivatives exhibit significant redox activity by catalysing the reduction of H2O2 in the presence of GSH (GPx (glutathione peroxidase)-like activity), which suggests that such redox modulatory activity of selenium compounds may have a significant effect on the cellular redox state during the inhibition of selenoproteins.
Vanadate is a potent reversible inhibitor of protein tyrosine phosphatases (PTP) in vitro. Vanadate has been shown to increase the phosphotyrosine levels in some cell types whereas in others, like the Jurkat T-lymphoma, vanadate has no effect. The reason for the apparent lack of effect of vanadate in Jurkat cells was investigated in this study. Alteration of the redox state of these cells by reducing the glutathione level with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DnpCl) had no effect on phosphotyrosine levels. However, the cells became sensitive to vanadate, as measured by an increase in phosphotyrosine levels on a wide range of proteins including the MAP kinases. The increase in phosphotyrosine levels most likely results from inhibition of cellular PTP and suggests that protein tyrosine kinases are constitutively active in cells, resulting in a dynamic phosphorylation-dephosphorylation cycle. The mode of inhibition of PTP by vanadate was investigated by measuring the PTP activity of Jurkat membranes isolated after treatment of cells with vanadate and DnpCl. In contrast to the reversible inhibition of PTP in vitro, the effect of vanadate in the presence of DnpCl was irreversible, raising the possibility that it is peroxovanadate formed in situ that is responsible for the inhibition of PTP in intact cells.
Clusterin protects against oxidative stress in vitro through aggregative and nonaggregative properties. Perturbations of cell interactions, an early event in acute renal injury, have important pathophysiologic consequences. We hypothesized that promotion of cell interactions protects cells from injury. To test this hypothesis, a single cell suspension of LLC-PK 1 cells (porcine proximal tubular cell line) treated with albumin (control) was compared to cells aggregated with fibrinogen or purified human clusterin (aggregation graded 0 to 4). Following aggregation, the cells were injured with 1.5 mM hydrogen peroxide (H 2 O 2 ) for three hours. Cell aggregation induced by clusterin but not fibrinogen protected against oxidant injury by H 2 O 2 . Complete abrogation of cytotoxicity occurred at a clusterin concentration of 2.5 μg/ml, which resulted in an aggregation score of 1. In the absence of aggregation, clusterin at concentrations of 20 and 50 μg/ml, but not lower doses, partially protected against injury induced by H 2 O 2 . Cell aggregation induced by both clusterin and fibrinogen partially protected against endogenously generated oxidant stress induced by incubating LLC-PK 1 cells with aminotriazole and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). In conclusion, clusterin protects against models of oxidant stress in vitro , whether generated by exogenously administered hydrogen peroxide, or from endogenously produced peroxide, and such protective effects can accrue from aggregative and nonaggregative properties of clusterin.
The correlation between the natural levels of glutathione S-transferase (GST) and the tolerance to the organophosphorus insecticides parathion-methyl and paraoxon-methyl, as well as the interaction of affinity-purified enzyme and the insecticides were investigated in order to collect further information on the role of the glutathione S-transferase system as a mechanism of defence against insecticides in insects. The studies were carried out on the larvae and pupae of the coleopteran Tenebrio molitor L, which exhibit varying natural levels of GST activity. Stage-dependent susceptibility of the insect against insecticides was observed during the first 24 h. However, 48 h after treatment, the KD50 value increased significantly due to the recovery of some individuals. Simultaneous injection of insecticide with compounds which inhibit GST activity in vitro caused an alteration in susceptibility of insects 24 or 48 h post-treatment, depending on stage and insecticide used. Inhibition studies combined with competitive fluorescence spectroscopy revealed that the insecticides probably bind to the active site of the enzyme, thus inhibiting its activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in a competitive manner. High-performance liquid chromatography and gas chromatography revealed that T molitor GST catalyses the conjugation of the insecticides studied to a reduced form of glutathione (GSH). From the above experimental results, it is considered that GST offers a protection against the organophosphorus insecticides studied by active site binding and subsequent conjugation with GSH.
We investigated whether cellular responses to various stress conditions are regulated in synchronization with the ultradian rhythm of respiratory–fermentative metabolism which is coupled to the cell cycle rhythm in continuous cultures of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The cellular resistance to heat oscillated with a peak at the late respiro–fermentative phase, which approximately corresponds to the unbudding period of the cell cycle. Cellular resistance to H2O2 and that to the superoxide-generating agent menadione oscillated in the same phase as that of heat resistance. The resistance to cadmium and that to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, an uncoupler of energy metabolism in mitochondria, both oscillated with a peak advanced by about 80° relative to that of heat resistance, approximately covering the respiro–fermentative phase. Thus, cellular resistance to various stresses in S. cerevisiae oscillated in synchronization with the metabolic oscillation in the continuous culture.
The Glu alpha-carboxylate of glutathione contributes to the catalytic function of the glutathione transferases. The catalytic efficiency of human glutathione transferase A1-1 (GST A1-1) in the conjugation reaction with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene is reduced 15 000-fold if the decarboxylated analogue of glutathione, dGSH (GABA-Cys-Gly), is used as an alternative thiol substrate. The decrease is partially due to an inability of the enzyme to promote ionization of dGSH. The pK(a) value of the thiol group of the natural substrate glutathione decreases from 9.2 to 6.7 upon binding to GST A1-1. However, the lack of the Glu alpha-carboxylate in dGSH raised the pK(a) value of the thiol in the enzymatic reaction to that of the nonenzymatic reaction. Furthermore, K(M)(dGSH) was 100-fold higher than K(M)(GSH). The active-site residue Thr68 forms a hydrogen bond to the Glu alpha-carboxylate of glutathione. Introduction of a carboxylate into GST A1-1 by a T68E mutation increased the catalytic efficiency with dGSH 10-fold and reduced the pK(a) value of the active site bound dGSH by approximately 1 pH unit. The altered pK(a) value is consistent with a catalytic mechanism where the carboxylate contributes to ionization of the glutathione thiol group. With Delta(5)-androstene-3,17-dione as substrate the efficiency of the enzyme is decreased 24 000-fold while with 4-nitrocinnamaldehyde (NCA) the decrease is less than 150-fold. In the latter reaction NCA accepts a proton and, unlike the other reactions studied, may not be dependent on the Glu alpha-carboxylate for deprotonation of the thiol group. An additional function of the Glu alpha-carboxylate may be productive orientation of glutathione within the active site.
A low Se intake in dietetically treated patients with phenylketonuria (PKU) or maple syrup urine disease (MSUD) leads to a marked reduction of the platelet glutathione peroxidase activity (GSHPx). The mean value amounted to 2.0 U/1011 platelets with t-butyl hydroperoxide (t-BOOH) (2.2 U/1011 with H2O2) in patients and 5.8 U/1011 with t-BOOH (5.4 U/1011 with H2O2) in the control children. After Se supplementation with yeast rich in Se (dose: 135 μg Se/m2) the GSHPx activities rapidly increased. They reached a plateau after 2–3 weeks and remained there during the following 15–20 weeks of supplementation. After the cessation of supplementation there was a slow decrease, the values reached a low plateau after 24 weeks.In addition platelet glutathione S-transferase (GSHTf) was estimated with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. No significant difference between the values in healthy and dietetically treated patients in a low or normal Se state was observed. GSHTf did not exhibit peroxidase activity and did not show a compensatory increase when Se dependent GSHPx activity was low.The patients do not reveal clinical signs of disturbed platelet function. GSHPx may act in platelets via lipoxygenase on the prostaglandin pathway. The physiologic consequence of altered arachidonate metabolism, when GSHPx is deficient in platelets, remains to be elucidated.
The fermentation of natural plants has a favorable effect on the functional and biological activities of living systems. These include anti-oxidative, anti-inflammatory, and anti-platelet aggregation activities. This is attributed to the chemical conversion of the parent plants to functional constituents, which show more potent biological activity. In our study, rice bran along with oriental medicinal plants (Angelicae gigantis, Cnidium officinale, Artemisia princeps, and Camellia sinensis) was fermented by Lactobacillus rhamnosus and Pichia deserticola (FRBE). We evaluated the effects of oral administration of FRBE on atopic dermatitis in 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB)-treated NC/Nga mice. FRBE significantly ameliorated the macroscopic and microscopic appearance of skin lesions in DNCB-induced atopic dermatitis and reduced levels of serum immunoglobulin E and the differential white blood cell count. In addition, it reduced skin thickness compared to that of atopic dermatitis-affected skin. FRBE treatment also reduced mast cell incorporation in skin lesions of atopic dermatitis. The total cell number in dorsal skin tissue and the axillary lymph node increased following DNCB application, and this was normalized by FRBE treatment. Moreover, it decreased the levels of CD8+ helper T cells and Gr-1+/CD11b+ B cells in peripheral blood mononuclear cells and skin lesions in DNCB-induced atopic dermatitis. Using real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis, we demonstrated that FRBE significantly inhibited mRNA expression of cytokines (e.g., interleukin-5 and interleukin-13) and cyclooxygenase-2 in AD skin lesions. These results suggest that FRBE could be a valuable herbal remedy for the treatment of atopic dermatitis.
Abstract We compared the nitric oxide (NO)-generating behavior of nitroglycerin (NTG), pentaerythritol trinitrate (PEtriN) and isosorbide dinitrate (ISDN), in the microsomal preparation of bovine coronary artery smooth muscle cells. The comparative NO generating activities among these nitrates were consistent with their relative reported vasodilating activities. Consistent with our previous observations with NTG, 400 μM bromosulfophthalein did not affect NO generation from PEtriN and ISDN in vascular microsomes while 400 μM 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene completely inhibited NO generation from these nitrates. Gel filtration chromatography with solubilized microsomes of bovine aortic smooth muscle cells showed the primary activity of NO generation from all three nitrates to be eluted at about 200 kD, consistent with that found with solubilized microsomes from the bovine coronary artery microsomes. These results suggest that organic nitrates may be converted to NO by one common enzyme in vascular microsomes.
Administration of either butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA) or butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT) (1000 mg/kg/day for 5 days) to male mice increased the content of reduced glutathione by 50-100% in liver, lung, duodenum and intestine. In colon, glandular stomach, spleen and kidney no effect on glutathione level was observed. BHA and BHT led also to 100-1000% induction of glutathione transferases in liver, lung (only BHA), kidney and digestive tract (except the colon); the relative increase in transferase activity was greater with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DCNB) as a substrate than with CDNB in all organs investigated. The effects of BHA, administered in olive oil by gavage, on different parts of the gastrointestinal tract revealed maximum increase of the glutathione content and transferase activities in the duodenum, smaller increase of these parameters in the upper intestine and no significant effects in the lower intestine and the colon. Starving mice for 1 day decreased the glutathione content of the liver by 50% to 21.3 +/- 4.5 nmol/mg protein in controls and to 39.4 +/- 3.3 in BHA-treated animals. Intravenous injection of 0.5 mmol GSH/kg restored the fed state (C: 37.4 +/- 2.8 nmol GSH/mg protein; BHA: 84.9 +/- 7.7) within 2 h. This indicates a much faster de novo synthesis of liver glutathione in BHA-pretreated animals. The mechanistic aspects of phenolic antioxidant effects on GSH metabolism are discussed.
This study quantified the ability of freshly isolated alveolar type II (ATII) pneumocytes to reduce extracellularly produced hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) and identify the mechanisms involved. ATII cells were isolated to high purity (greater than 85%) from rabbit lungs by enzymatic digestion and Percoll centrifugation and suspended in Eagle's minimum essential medium (MEM). They were then coincubated with either 500 microM xanthine and 10 mU/ml xanthine oxidase (XO; pH 7.4; 25 degrees C) or 300 microM H2O2. The extracellular H2O2 concentration [H2O2] was measured in the following conditions over a 60-min period: 1) MEM alone, 2) untreated (control), 3) 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole (ATZ)-treated, or 4) 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene-treated ATII cells. Addition of xanthine and XO to MEM alone resulted in a time-dependent increase in [H2O2], reaching a plateau value of approximately 300 microM after 45 min. In the presence of control ATII cells (1 x 10(6) cells/ml), [H2O2] remained at control levels. When coincubated with 300 microM H2O2, ATII cells cleared H2O2 at a higher rate than an equivalent amount of free catalase. Incubation with ATZ decreased ATII cell catalase activity by 89% and significantly impaired their ability to clear H2O2 (half-life = 18.1 +/- 2.7 vs. 1.3 +/- 0.1 min, P less than 0.01). ATZ-treated cells were more susceptible to oxidant injury, as shown by their decreased ability to exclude trypan blue after 60 min of H2O2 exposure. On the other hand, glutathione-depleted cells scavenged H2O2 at the same rate as controls.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
AIM: To study the effect of menadione (Men) reducing doxorubicin (Dox) resistance in Ehrlich ascites carcinoma (EAC) cells resistant to Dox (EAC/Dox cells). METHODS: Glutathione (GSH) content and membrane fluidity were measured by fluorometric assay and fluorescence depolarization assay, respectively. Glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity was measured with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as the substrate. Cell viability was determined by 3-(4, 5-dimethylthiazol)-2, 5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay. RESULTS: GSH content, GST activity, and membrane fluidity in EAC/Dox cells were higher than those in EAC cells (P 0.05), but decreased the elevated membrane fluidity efficiently (P 0.05). IC50 of Dox was reduced to 9.6 (7.8-11.3), 6.0 (2.8-9.2), or 5.3 (3.9-6.7) mg.L-1 in EAC/Dox cells pretreated with Men 1, 5, or 10 mg.L-1. CONCLUSION: Men reduced Dox resistance effectively due in part to its depletion of GSH content in EAC/Dox cells.
Dietary restriction (DR) reduced the metabolic activation of aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) in rats. This reduction may be attributed to the decrease of cytochrome P-450-mediated AFB1 epoxidation and/or increase in the detoxification of AFB1 catalyzed by hepatic glutathione S-transferase (GST) and other phase II detoxification enzymes. In this study the effect of DR on male rat liver cytosolic GST activity toward AFB1-8,9-epoxide was studied. The chemically-synthesized AFB1-8,9-epoxide was used as the substrate in this assay, and the formation of AFB1-GSH conjugate was analyzed by HPLC. Male Fischer 344 rats fed DR diets (60% of the food consumption of ad libitum (AL)-fed rats) showed a 2.4-fold increase in GST activity when AFB1-epoxide was used as the substrate. The results from the enzyme kinetic study showed that DR increased Vmax of the liver cytosolic GST but not the Km. Acute DR has little or no impact on GST activity when 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 2,4-dichloronitrobenzene were used as substrates. The mouse liver GST activity toward AFB1-epoxide was 3-fold greater than that of phenobarbital-induced rats, 4.5-fold greater than DR rats, and 14.7-fold greater than the GST activity of AL rats. This direct assay of liver GST activity using AFB1-epoxide as the substrate is useful for studying AFB1-induced biomarkers, such as AFB1-GSH conjugation and AFB1-DNA adducts.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are widespread in Fasciola. hepatica parasite and sheep ::: liver tissue. Study of GSTs inhibition assays in F. hepatica and sheep liver tissue are a priority of chemotherapeutic targets in parasitic liver diseases including human fascioliasis in Iran. In this research, the whole extract of F. hepatica and sheep liver tissues were purified and eluted for sodium dodecyl sulphate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) pattern and GSTs inhibition assay. GSTs inhibition was detected by hexachlorophene as an inhibitor and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as ::: secondary substrate. The purified GSTs from F. hepatica and liver tissue contained comparable components and showed a molecular weight of 26kDa. The inhibitor concentration of hexachlorophene, for the remaining 50% activity (IC50%) of GST enzymes from F. hepatica and liver were graphically calculated, and the results were 0.25 µM and 1 µM, respectively. GSTs of F. hepatica may be more sensitive than sheep liver tissue to hexachlorophene.
Abstract The effects of chronic administration of aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) on liver drug metabolism enzymes were measured in New Zealand rabbits divided into three groups of 5 animals, each receiving over 5 days either arabic gum or AFB1 in arabic gum at a daily oral dose of 0.05 or 0.10 mg/kg. These treatments did not lead to any lethality in any of the treated groups but the body weight gain was altered. Biochemical exploration of plasma components revealed a dose-dependent hepatotoxicity characterized by cytolysis and cholestasis. At 0.10 mg/kg/day of AFB1, significant decreases were observed in total liver microsomal cytochrome P450, several P450-dependent monooxygenase activities, all individual P450 isoenzymes levels analysed by Western-blotting and glutathione S -transferase activities. By contrast, at 0.05 mg/kg/day of AFB1, even though total cytochrome P450 was decreased by 30%, only P450 1A1 and 3A6 isoenzymes, and aniline hydroxylation, pentoxyresorufin O -depentylation, aminopyrine, erythromycin, ethylmorphine and dimethylnitrosamine N -demethylations were affected. In the same animal group, the only glutathione S -transferase accepting CDNB (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene) as substrate was decreased by 22%. UDP-glucuronyltransferase accepting p -nitrophenol as substrate was increased in both groups of animals (33–62%). The mechanisms that could contribute to the observed changes in drug metabolizing enzymes are discussed.
OBJECTIVES ::: Single nucleotide polymorphisms that cause amino acid substitutions in enzymes involved in the metabolism of xenobiotics can potentially have a significant effect on the efficacy and safety of therapeutic drugs. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: We have utilized a bioinformatic approach to identify new polymorphisms in the glutathione transferase super family. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS ::: In this report we describe a P110S polymorphism in GSTA2 that occurs at a low frequency in Africans, Chinese and Europeans. The serine containing isoform has significantly diminished activity with a range of substrates including, delta-Androsten-3,17-dione, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and cumene hydroperoxide. The activity with cumene hydroperoxide may reflect a diminished physiological function since the glutathione peroxidase activity of GSTA2-2 plays a role in prostaglandin synthesis. In contrast, activity with p-nitrophenol acetate was significantly elevated. The position of this polymorphism in the active site and its effects on model substrates suggest that further investigation of its capacity to conjugate alkylating drugs is warranted.
Multiple halothane anesthesias (1.25 MAC for 1 hr on 3 alternate days) of male Long-Evans rats initially decreased by up to 30% and subsequently increased to up to 185% liver cytosolic glutathione S-transferase activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 3,4-dichloro-1-nitrobenzene and trans-4-phenyl-3-buten-2-one and glutathione peroxidase activity. Halothane rapidly and reversibly activated hepatic cytosolic glutathione S-transferases and purified isoenzyme 1-2 but not isoenzymes 1-1 and 3-3. At high concentrations of halothane (ca. 22 mM), maximal activation was ca. 25%. Halothane, enflurane, isoflurane and methoxyflurane, but not the halothane metabolite 1-chloro-2,2-difluoroethylene, inhibited a mixture of liver cytosolic glutathione S-transferases with time (ca. 30% inhibition/15 min). The inhibition exhibited pseudo-first order kinetics (kobs = 0.13 min-1) and an I50 for halothane of greater than or equal to 15 mM. Halothane inhibited glutathione S-transferases 3-3, 3-4, and 4-4 by 50-60%, but did not affect isoenzymes 1-1 and 1-2. The ability of halothane to diminish hepatic glutathione S-transferase activity in vivo may in part reflect the time-dependent inhibition of glutathione S-transferase isoenzymes containing the 3- and 4-subunits.
The fermentation of natural plants has a favorable effect on the functional and biological activities of living systems. These include anti-oxidative, anti-inflammatory, and anti-platelet aggregation activities. This is attributed to the chemical conversion of the parent plants to functional constituents, which show more potent biological activity. In our study, rice bran along with oriental medicinal plants (Angelicae gigantis, Cnidium officinale, Artemisia princeps, and Camellia sinensis) was fermented by Lactobacillus rhamnosus and Pichia deserticola (FRBE). We evaluated the effects of oral administration of FRBE on atopic dermatitis in 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB)-treated NC/Nga mice. FRBE significantly ameliorated the macroscopic and microscopic appearance of skin lesions in DNCB-induced atopic dermatitis and reduced levels of serum immunoglobulin E and the differential white blood cell count. In addition, it reduced skin thickness compared to that of atopic dermatitis-affected skin. FRBE treatment also reduced mast cell incorporation in skin lesions of atopic dermatitis. The total cell number in dorsal skin tissue and the axillary lymph node increased following DNCB application, and this was normalized by FRBE treatment. Moreover, it decreased the levels of CD8 + helper T cells and Gr-1 + /CD11b + B cells in peripheral blood mononuclear cells and skin lesions in DNCB-induced atopic dermatitis. Using real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis, we demonstrated that FRBE significantly inhibited mRNA expression of cytokines (e.g., interleukin-5 and interleukin-13) and cyclooxygenase-2 in AD skin lesions. These results suggest that FRBE could be a valuable herbal remedy for the treatment of atopic dermatitis.
Catalysts that can detoxify reactive organic chemicals (electrophiles) could be of potential beneficial use. Electrophilic compounds are common toxic agents that are conjugated to endogenous nucleophiles (i.e. glutathione) in an enzyme catalysed reaction (by glutathione transferases). Here, the properties of newly synthesised polymeric surfactant catalysts, which are glutathione transferase mimics, are described (which are not limited to the glutathione thiol donor). Reactions studied were nucleophilic aromatic substitution with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and thiolysis of p-nitrophenyl acetate. Polymeric quaternary ammonium salts synthesised starting from 2-(dimethyl-amino)ethylmethacrylate or 1,3-bis(dimethylamino)isopropylmethacrylate were used as surfactants. Five polysoaps were studied possessing different charge density and different density of hydrophobic chains. In comparison with cetyltrimethylammonium bromide, the polymeric surfactants were clearly more efficient catalysts (i.e. 4.9 vs. 150 (103 per M2/s) with benzyl hydrosulfide and CDNB). Polymers with high charge and hydrophobic density were most efficient. With a given catalyst, increasing hydrophobicity of the thiol substrate parallels increasing reaction rates (e.g. 0.7–≥37 (103 per M2/s) with CDNB). Concentration of the substrate in the micellar pseudophase together with solvent shielding is suggested as the underlying rate enhancement mechanism. Dead-end Meisenheimer complex stabilisation, where an extremely electrophilic compound (1,3,5-trinitrobenzene) reversibly interacts with glutathione is seen both with glutathione transferases and the polymeric surfactant catalysts. The degree of stabilisation follows catalytic efficiency and thus supports the above structure activity relationships. In conclusion, polymeric materials that can perform biological functions in detoxication are described, as well as their optimal properties.
Contact sensitizers are low molecular weight compounds, which can prompt dendritic cells in the skin to subsequently activate naive T-cells in draining lymph nodes. Often these compounds are electrophilic and activate the Keap1/Nrf2 pathway. We aimed to further elucidate the molecular mechanisms of skin sensitization. ::: ::: We used bone marrow-derived dendritic cells (BMDC) from CD34+ progenitor cells from wild-type or Nrf2−/− mice. Cells were treated for 8 h with different contact allergens: cinnamaldehyde (CA), 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB), nickel sulfate (NiSO4) or with SDS as an irritant control. Analysis was performed using 2D gels and ESI-MS/MS. Ingenuity IPA® was used for pathway analyses. ::: ::: While treatments with nickel and SDS had only low effects, CA and DNCB led to significant changes in protein expression. Most of these proteins showed no significant regulation in Nrf2−/− cells, indicating an Nrf2-dependent cellular response. We identified several Nrf2-dependent proteins like glutamate cysteine ligase, heme oxygenase or catalase. We also identified other proteins involved in oxidative stress response, signal transduction pathways, basic cellular pathways and heat shock response. ::: ::: IPA® upstream analysis confirmed activation of Nrf2-related pathways in wild-type but not in knockout cells. Furthermore IPA® predicted Nrf2-dependent activation of pathways regulated by TGFβ, PPARγ and CD38 which are known to play an important role in dendritic cell maturation and function. A more pronounced regulation of glucose metabolism, PI3K/AKT signalling and protein degradation in wildtype cells also indicated Nrf2-dependent BMDC activation. Altogether IPA® predicted an anti-apoptotic, -necrotic and -inflammatory response in wildtype but not in Nrf2−/− cells.
Background and Objectives: The purpose of this study is to evaluate the level of oxidative stress before and after breast cancer surgery. Materials and Methods: Malondialdehyde (MDA) level was tested using a thiobarbituric acid (TBA) assay based on the release of a color complex due to TBA reaction with MDA. The glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity was evaluated by enzymatic conjugation of reduced glutathione (GSH) with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. The level of total glutathione (reduced GSH and oxidized GSSG) was detected using a recycling system by 5,5-dithiobis(2-nitrobenzoic acid). The levels of the indices were determined in the serum of 52 patients before surgery, two hours and five days after surgery, and in 42 healthy women. Results: In the patients over 50 years old the level of MDA was higher after surgery in comparison with before surgery, and GST activity was lower in comparison with the control. The GSH + GSSG level in both ages groups after surgery was lower than in the control. Significant differences of MDA level were detected in patients with stage III after surgery compared to the control. The level of GSH + GSSG was significantly lower in the patients with I–III stages compared to the control. Conclusion: The most expressed changes demonstrate the significance of MDA as a marker to evaluate oxidative stress in breast cancer patients. The degree of oxidative stress depends on the patient’s age and stage of disease.
Abstract Glyoxalase I has been purified to homogeneity from Saccharomyces cerevisiae and tested with two different thiol reagents, i.e., 5,5′-dithiobis-(2-nitrobenzoic acid) (DTNB) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). DTNB reacts with four thiol groups per molecule of enzyme and leads to a complete inhibition which is not reversed by addition of the disulfide-reducing agent dithiothreitol. On the other hand, CDNB slightly affects the glyoxalase-I activity and alkylates only one thiol residue/enzyme. In agreement, DTNB reacts with three thiol residues of the CDNB-reacted enzyme and no reactivation is observed after dithiothreitol treatment. The peptide containing the CDNB-reactive thiol group has been isolated and the sequence overlaps the segment 58–63 of the only known primary structure of glyoxalase I from Pseudomonas putida .
The mutational replacement of Arg182 with threonine markedly decreased the specific activities for GSH-conjugation reaction. The Kcat of R182T for GSH-[1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene] conjugation reaction was about 100-fold smaller than that of the wild type. On the other hand, the affinity for GSH of R182T was not significantly affected. The pKa of the thiol group of GSH bound in R182T was approximately 0.9 pK units higher than those in the wild type, but the Kcat/Km1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene values at high pH were not so much lower than those of the wild type. The thermostability of R182T was significantly lower than that of the wild type. Therefore, Arg182 seems to be important for the construction of the active enzyme structure.
The amount of glutathione S-transferase activity present in various stages of development and in various tissues of an insecticide susceptible strain of Helicoverpa zea was determined. GSH S-transferase activity toward CDNB (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene) was detected in the egg, and increased throughout the larval stages and was the highest in the 2 day old fifth instar larvae. GSH S-transferase activity toward DCNB (1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene) could only be detected in the 2 day old fourth instar larvae, and the 2 day old fifth instar larvae. Enzyme activity using CDNB and DCNB as substrates was found in different tissues of the 2 day old fifth instar larvae, i.e. fat body, gut and cuticle. The fat body contained the highest enzyme activity for both substrates. The Km values for CDNB conjugation in different stages of larval development and in the different tissues of the 2 day old fifth instar larvae, was approx. 0.24 mM. The enzyme responsible for CDNB-conjugation was purified 48 fold by GSH-agarose affinity chromatography. SDS gel electrophoresis and chromatofocusing resolved only one isozyme which is a homodimer, consisting of two equal size subunits having 23,900 mol. wt, with a pI value of 8.0.
It has been shown that exposure of mice to contact allergens induces B cell activation in the draining lymph nodes (DLN), as seen by an increase in the percentage of B220+ or IgG/IgM+ cells. We have now examined whether the measurement of the percentage of B220+ cells could be used as an alternative or supplementary endpoint for the local lymph node assay (LLNA) to differentiate between allergenic responses and those few irritants that induce low-level proliferation in the DLN. Mice were treated on the ears, daily for 3 consecutive days, with various allergens (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, alpha-hexylcinnamaldehyde, trinitrochlorobenzene, isoeugenol, and eugenol) or irritants (benzalkonium chloride, methyl salicylate, salicylic acid, and sodium lauryl sulfate). The DLN were excised 72 h following the final topical treatment, and the cells were prepared for B220 analysis using flow cytometry. The percentage of B220+ cells in lymph nodes derived from test and vehicle-treated animals was determined for 5 allergens and 4 irritants tested in multiple experiments (n = 3 to 17). As expected, the percentage of B220+ B cells was increased with each of the allergens tested, whereas irritant treatment did not cause similar increases. Moreover, the method was reproducible. For example, the strong allergen, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and the weak allergen, alpha-hexylcinnamaldehyde were identified as allergens in 17 of 17 and in 12 of 13 experiments, respectively. The percentage of B220 values for each chemical treatment (41 observations for allergens; 28 observations for irritants) versus the percentage of B220 values for the concurrent vehicle controls were plotted, and a classification tree model was developed that defined a B220 test:vehicle ratio cutoff of 1.25 for discriminating between allergens (>1.25) and irritants (<1.25). Using this B220 test:vehicle ratio of 1.25 in 93% of the 69 independent observations made, the allergens and irritants tested were identified correctly. Finally, to evaluate the performance of this model in a second independent laboratory, 3 allergens and 2 irritants were tested. Each of the allergens and irritants were classified correctly using the B220 test:vehicle ratio cutoff of 1.25. These data demonstrate that analysis of B220 expression in DLN may be useful in differentiating between allergen and irritant responses induced in chemically treated mice.
Leucocyte suspensions containing 97–100 per cent lymphocytes were prepared from the peripheral blood of unsensitized guinea-pigs as well as animals previously sensitized with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. The lymphocytes were dinitrophenylated and cultured for 5 days in vitro. Transformed cells (8–22 per cent) and an increased (100–1000 fold) uptake of tritiated thymidine were observed only in cultures of lymphocytes from sensitized animals. Smaller numbers of transformed cells (1–2 per cent) were found in only a few cultures of sensitive lymphocytes incubated with either dinitrophenylated autologous erythrocytes or serum proteins. These results strongly suggest that transformation may specifically follow the conjugation of DNFB with live lymphocytes from sensitized donors.
To clarify the role(s) of thiol (sulfhydryl) groups of cysteine (Cys) residues in the activity of the rat glutathione transferase P (7-7) form (GST-P), a cDNA clone, pGP5, containing the entire coding sequence of GST-P (Y. Sugioka et al., (1985) Nucleic Acids Res. 13, 6044-6057) was inserted into the expression vector pKK233-2 and the recombinant GST-P (rGST-P) expressed in E. coli JM109. All four Cys residues in rGST-P were independently substituted with alanine (Ala) by site-directed mutagenesis, the resultant mutants as well as the rGST-P being identical to GST-P purified from liver preneoplastic nodules with regard to molecular weight and immunochemical staining. Since all mutants proved as enzymatically active towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as liver GST-P, it was indicated that none of the four Cys residues is essential for GST-P activity. However, the mutant with Ala at the 47th position from the N-terminus (Ala47) became resistant to irreversible inactivation by 0.1 mM N-ethylmaleimide (NEM), whereas the other three mutants remained as sensitive as the nonmutant type (rGST-P). Ala47 was also resistant to inactivation by the physiological disulfides, cystamine or cystine, which cause mixed disulfide and/or intra- or inter-subunit disulfide bond formation. These results suggest that the 47-Cys residue of GST-P may be located near the glutathione binding site, and modulation of this residue by thiol/disulfide exchange may play an important role in regulation of activity.
Abstract Glutathione S -transferases (GST) from corn, giant foxtail, onion, pea, house fly, and equine liver catalyzed conjugation of tridiphane with glutathione (GSH). The conjugate was characterized by soft ionization mass spectral methods. Tridiphane and the GSH conjugate of tridiphane both inhibited GSH conjugation of atrazine in vitro (corn and giant foxtail). Tridiphane did not inhibit GSH conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) in corn or giant foxtail; however, the GSH conjugate of tridiphane was a competitive inhibitor with respect to GSH and was four times more effective with extracts from giant foxtail ( K i = 2 μM ) than from corn ( K i = 8 μM ). The GSH conjugate of tridiphane inhibited a variety of GST enzymes with several different substrates. When compared to other inhibitors of GST, only triphenyl tin chloride was more effective than the GSH conjugate of tridiphane in inhibition of GST from giant foxtail. Both GST and GSH decreased in corn and increased in giant foxtail as tissues matured. The catabolism of the GSH conjugate of tridiphane was compared in crude enzyme systems from corn, giant foxtail, and onion. The rate of catabolism was much greater in extracts from corn leaves than from giant foxtail leaves. Inhibition of GSH conjugation of CDNB was reversed as the GSH conjugate of tridiphane was catabolized. The possibility that synergism of atrazine toxicity by tridiphane is mediated by conversion of tridiphane to a GSH conjugate is discussed in relationship to the relative rates of GSH conjugation of tridiphane and atrazine, concentrations of GSH, K i values, tissue age, and stability of the conjugate in different tissues.
The effects of chronic ethanol on in vitro and in vivo drug metabolism were examined in 6 and 25 month old male Fischer 344 rats. Animals were divided into three diet groups: (1) Diet containing EtOH, (2) pair-fed controls and (3) rat chow ad lib. Rats in groups 1 and 2 were fed 3 times daily for six weeks via permanent gastrostomy and received EtOH at doses of 5-8 g/kg/day in the first 3 weeks and 12 g/kg/day for the last 3 weeks. Total caloric intake was 90-120 kcal/kg/day. After 6 weeks, the pharmacokinetics of i.v. acetaminophen (A), 30 mg/kg, were examined to probe in vivo drug conjugation. There was no effects of EtOH on the total CL of A in young or old rats. The fraction of the dose recovered in the urine as A-glucuronide and the partial clearance to A-glucuronide was increased by EtOH. There was no effect on the rate of A-sulfate formation. EtOH increased the renal clearance of A but not of A-sulfate or A-glucuronide. In vitro, EtOH increased hepatic cytochrome P-450 concentration and p-nitroanisole demethylase activity, especially in old rats where values returned to those seen in untreated young males. Erythromycin and ethylmorphine demethylase andmore » p-nitrophenol hydroxylase activities were not increased by the EtOH treatment. EtOH increased UDP-glucuronosyltransferase activity towards 1-naphthol, but not towards morphine, estrone, or testosterone. EtOH had no effect on the cytosolic glutathione S-transferase (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene) and phenol sulfotransferase (p-nitrophenol) activities.« less
1. ::: 1. Evidence is presented suggesting that a single enzyme catalyzes the conjugation of methyl iodide and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (spec. act., 2.25 nmol/mg protein per min and 86.8 nmol/mg protein per min, respectively). ::: ::: 2. ::: 2. The enzyme has a molecular weight of 37,000 and corresponds to a heterodimer with subunits of 20,000 and 17,000 mol. wt, respectively. ::: ::: 3. ::: 3. The conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene is noncompetitively inhibited by 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)propane, 4-nitropyridine-N-oxide, and an antiprotozoal agent, 2-(1-methyl-5-nitroimidazolyl)-4-(thiomorpholinoiminomethyl)-thiazole-1′,1′-dioxide. ::: ::: 4. ::: 4. The inhibition kinetic observed with 4-nitropyridine-N-oxide suggests the presence of two binding sites for this compound, one as a substrate and the other as inhibitor. ::: ::: 5. ::: 5. Glutathione-S-transferase coupled to the action of other microsomal detoxifying systems may play a role in the resistance of Trypanosoma cruzi to known antimicrobial agents.
Abstract In the present study we have compared the levels of glutathione (GSH) S-transferase, GSH peroxidase and GSH reductase in human breast tumors and adjacent normal tissues obtained from the same individuals. We have also quantitated GST π type antigen in these samples by western blotting. GST π activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was found to be elevated in tumors from three out of six patients (patient nos. 2, 4 and 5), whereas this activity was suppressed in tumor from patient no. 1. Results of Western blotting using antibodies raised against GST π of human placenta were in agreement with the GST activity data. GSH peroxidase activity with cumene hydroperoxide as substrate was found to be elevated in four tumor samples (patients nos. 2, 4, 5, and 6) but suppressed in tumor from patient no. 1. On the other hand, GSH reductase activity was elevated in three samples (patients nos. 2, 4 and 5) and downregulated in the remaining three samples (patients nos. 1, 3 and 6). These results indicate that GSH-related enzymes are differentially altered in human breast tumors and GST π type isoenzyme(s), unlike certain other human carcinomas such as colonic, are not uniformly elevated in human breast tumors.
Electrochemical behavior of nitrobenzene,1,3-dinitrobenzene,1-methyl-4-nitro-benzene and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene were studied at the dropping mercury electrode.And at the same time,the reactive activity(including charge distribution and molecular energy) of these 4 derivatives were calculated theoratically by the quantum theory.It was found that the results obtained by the electrochemical experiments were in consistency with those obtained by theoratical calculation.Based on these facts,a method of predication of electrochemical activity of molecules of some compounds by theoratical calculation was proposed.
Previously we have purified and characterized a major glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity, GST-4a, from the Thai mosquito Anopheles dirus B, a model mosquito for study of anopheline malaria vectors [Prapanthadara, L. Koottathep, S., Promtet, N., Hemingway, J. and Ketterman, A.J. (1996) Insect Biochem. Mol. Biol. 26:3, 277‐285]. In this report we have purified an isoenzyme, GST-4c, which has the greatest DDT-dehydrochlorinase activity. Three additional isoenzymes, GST-4b, GST-5 and GST-6, were also partially purified and characterized for comparison. All of the Anopheles GST isoenzymes preferred 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as an electrophilic substrate. In kinetic studies with CDNB as an electrophilic substrate, the V max of GST-4c was 24.38 μmole/min/mg which was seven-fold less than GST-4a. The two isoenzymes also possessed different Kms for CDNB and glutathione. Despite being only partially pure GST-4b had nearly a four-fold greater Vmax for CDNB than GST-4c. In contrast, GST-4c possessed the greatest DDT-dehydrochlorinase specific activity among the purified insect GST isoenzymes and no activity was detected for GST-5. Seven putative GST substrates used in this study were not utilized by An. dirus GSTs, although they were capable of inhibiting CDNB conjugating activity to different extents for the different isoenzymes. Bromosulfophthalein and ethacrynic acid were the most potent inhibitors. The inhibition studies demonstrate different degrees of interaction of the An. dirus isoenzymes with various insecticides. The GSTs were inhibited more readily by organochlorines and pyrethroids than by the phosphorothioates and carbamate. In a comparison between An. dirus and previous data from An. gambiae the two anopheline species possess a similar pattern of GST isoenzymes although the individual enzymes differ significantly at the functional level. The available data suggests there may be a minimum of three GST classes in anopheline insects. © 2000 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
Background and Objectives: The purpose of this study is to evaluate the level of oxidative stress before and after breast cancer surgery. Materials and Methods: Malondialdehyde (MDA) level was tested using a thiobarbituric acid (TBA) assay based on the release of a color complex due to TBA reaction with MDA. The glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity was evaluated by enzymatic conjugation of reduced glutathione (GSH) with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. The level of total glutathione (reduced GSH and oxidized GSSG) was detected using a recycling system by 5,5-dithiobis(2-nitrobenzoic acid). The levels of the indices were determined in the serum of 52 patients before surgery, two hours and five days after surgery, and in 42 healthy women. Results: In the patients over 50 years old the level of MDA was higher after surgery in comparison with before surgery, and GST activity was lower in comparison with the control. The GSH + GSSG level in both ages groups after surgery was lower than in the control. Significant differences of MDA level were detected in patients with stage III after surgery compared to the control. The level of GSH + GSSG was significantly lower in the patients with I-III stages compared to the control. Conclusion: The most expressed changes demonstrate the significance of MDA as a marker to evaluate oxidative stress in breast cancer patients. The degree of oxidative stress depends on the patient's age and stage of disease. (1) Malondialdehyde can be used as an oxidative stress marker; (2) A higher stage of the disease and older age correspond to a higher rise of malondialdehyde, suggesting more intensive oxidative stress.
ABSTRACT: Investigation to ascertain the levels of glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity of three human erythrocyte genotypes (HbAA, HbAS and HbSS) obtained from apparently healthy and clinically confirmed malarious subjects/volunteers was carried out. The incubation of human erythrocytes with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) resulted in almost quantitative conjugation of glutathione (GSH) to form S-(2,4-dinitrophenyl) glutathione. The reaction formed the basis for the spectrophotometric determination of GST activity. The levels of GST activity of the red cell genotypes was in the order of HbAA<HbAS<HbSS. There was no significant difference (p>0.05) between GST activity of HbAA and HbAS erythrocytes. The results also showed red blood cells infected with Plasmodium falciparum exhibited significantly lower levels of GST activity compared to erythrocytes obtained from apparently healthy non-malarious individuals. Furthermore, gender did not significantly (p>0.05) affect erythrocyte GST activity of non-malarious subjects/volunteers. The study suggests that GST activity evaluation might be a reliable biochemical marker and possess promising rational for diagnostic potential in malaria. @ JASEM
؉ or IgG/IgM ؉ cells. We have now examined whether the measurement of the percentage of B220 ؉ cells could be used as an alternative or supplementary endpoint for the local lymph node assay (LLNA) to differentiate between allergenic responses and those few irritants that induce low-level proliferation in the DLN. Mice were treated on the ears, daily for 3 consecutive days, with various allergens (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, ␣-hexylcinnamaldehyde, trinitrochlorobenzene, isoeugenol, and eugenol) or irritants (benzalkonium chloride, methyl salicylate, salicylic acid, and sodium lauryl sulfate). The DLN were excised 72 h following the final topical treatment, and the cells were prepared for B220 analysis using flow cytometry. The percentage of B220 ؉ cells in lymph nodes derived from test and vehicle-treated animals was determined for 5 allergens and 4 irritants tested in multiple experiments (n ‫؍‬ 3 to 17). As expected, the percentage of B220 ؉ B cells was increased with each of the allergens tested, whereas irritant treatment did not cause similar increases. Moreover, the method was reproducible. For example, the strong allergen, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and the weak allergen, ␣-hexylcinnamaldehyde were identified as allergens in 17 of 17 and in 12 of 13 experiments, respectively. The percentage of B220 values for each chemical treatment (41 observations for allergens; 28 observations for irritants) versus the percentage of B220 values for the concurrent vehicle controls were plotted, and a classification tree model was developed that defined a B220 test: vehicle ratio cutoff of 1.25 for discriminating between allergens (>1.25) and irritants (<1.25). Using this B220 test:vehicle ratio of 1.25 in 93% of the 69 independent observations made, the allergens and irritants tested were identified correctly. Finally, to evaluate the performance of this model in a second independent laboratory, 3 allergens and 2 irritants were tested. Each of the allergens and irritants were classified correctly using the B220 test:vehicle ratio cutoff of 1.25. These data demonstrate that analysis of B220 expression in DLN may be useful in differentiating between allergen and irritant responses induced in chemically treated mice.
Test chemicals. Test chemicals used in studies conducted by Laboratory 1 were as follows: benzalkonium chloride (BZC), 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB), methyl salicylate (MS) and sodium lauryl sulfate (SLS) were purchased from Sigma Chemical Co. (St. Louis, MO). a-Hexylcinnamaldehyde (HCA), salicylic acid (SA), eugenol (EUG), and isoeugenol (ISOE) were purchased from Aldrich Chemical Co. (Milwaukee, WI). Trinitrochlorobenzene (TNCB) was obtained from PolySciences, Inc. (Warrington, PA). Acetone (ACE), 20% aqueous ethanol (EtOH), or acetone:olive oil (4:1, AOO) were used as vehicle controls. For materials formulated in acetone, the concentrations were as follows: DNCB, 0.25%; HCA, 50%; EUG, 25%; TNCB, 0.5%; ISOE, 5%; BZC, 2% and SA, 40%. SLS was used at 20% in 20% aqueous ethanol and MS was formulated at 10% in AOO. Laboratory 2 purchased DNCB and SLS from the Sigma Chemical Company and BZC and HCA were obtained from Aldrich Chemical Co. (Gillingham, Kent, U.K.). EUG used by Laboratory 2 was purchased from Quest Laboratories (Ashford, Kent, U.K.). Formulation of test materials was consistent between laboratories in terms of both concentration and vehicle used, and, in all instances, dosing solutions were prepared volumetrically and immediately prior to each treatment.
To date, several potential mechanisms for inhibition of platelet aggregation have been suggested. These include inhibition of adenosine receptors and thromboxane synthase (Martinez et al., 1992; Vittori et al., 1996) , increased cGMP (Bassenge and Stewart, 1988), increased NO-releasing compounds (Civelli et al., 1994) , and synthesis of prostacyclin analogues (Katsube et al., 1993) . Depletion of glutathione (GSH) in platelets has been correlated with inhibition of platelet aggregation by several compounds. These include helaniline (a derivative of sesquiterpene lactone) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), which deplete GSH (Bosia et al., 1985; Schroder et al., 1990) , diamide, which oxidizes GSH (Matsuda et al., 1979; Patscheke and Worner, 1978) , and N-ethylmaleimide (NEM), which alkylates GSH (Hill et al., 1989) .
Abstract 1,1,1-Trichloro-2,2-bis(p-chlorophenyl)ethane (DDT) resistance in both adults and larvae of Anopheles gambiae is mediated by stage-specific glutathione S-transferases (GSTs). On the basis of their biochemical characteristics the larval resistance-associated GSTs are likely to be insect class I GSTs. Aggst1-2, a class I GST gene, which is expressed in larvae, has been cloned from the malaria vector A. gambiae. The gene was inserted into a bacterial expression system, and the detection of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) conjugating activity in Eschericia coli expressing the recombinant enzyme confirmed that aggst1-2 encodes a catalytically active GST. The gene encodes a 209 amino acid protein with 46% sequence similarity to a Drosophila melanogaster class I GST (GST-D1), 44% similarity with a Musca domestica class I GST (MdGST-1), but only low levels of homology with class II insect GSTs, including the adult specific AgGST2-1 from A. gambiae. Southern analysis of genomic DNA indicated that A. gambiae has multiple class I GSTs. In situ hybridization of class I genomic and cDNA clones to polytene chromosomes identified a single region of complementarity on chromosome 2R division 18B, suggesting that these class I GSTs in A. gambiae are arranged sequentially in the genome. Three positive overlapping recombinant clones were identified from an A. gambiae genomic library. Mapping and partial sequencing of these clones suggests that there are several GSTs and truncated GST pseudogenes within the 30kb of DNA that these clones span.
An active site His107 residue distinguishes human glutathione S-transferase hGSTM1-1 from other mammalian Mu-class GSTs. The crystal structure of hGSTM1a-1a with bound glutathione (GSH) was solved to 1.9 A resolution, and site-directed mutagenesis supports the conclusion that a proton transfer occurs in which bound water at the catalytic site acts as a primary proton acceptor from the GSH thiol group to transfer the proton to His107. The structure of the second substrate-binding site (H-site) was determined from hGSTM1a-1a complexed with 1-glutathionyl-2,4-dinitrobenzene (GS-DNB) formed by a reaction in the crystal between GSH and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). In that structure, the GSH-binding site (G-site) is occupied by the GSH moiety of the product in the same configuration as that of the enzyme−GSH complex, and the dinitrobenzene ring is anchored between the side chains of Tyr6, Leu12, His107, Met108, and Tyr115. This orientation suggested a distinct transition state that was substantiated from...
Abstract The gene for glutathione S-transferase (GST) in Antarctic sea-ice yeast Rhodotorula mucilaginosa AN5 was cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli and named RmGST. Sequence analysis showed that the RmGST gene contained a 843 bp open reading frame, which encoded 280 amino acid residues with a calculated molecular mass of 30.4 kDa and isoelectric point of 5.40. RmGST has the typical C- and N-terminal double domains of glutathione S-transferase. Recombinant RmGST (rRmGST) was expressed in E. coli to produce heterologous protein that had a high specific activity of 60.2 U/mg after purification. The apparent Km values of rRmGST for glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene were 0.35 mM and 0.40 mM, respectively. Optimum enzyme activity was measured at 35 °C and at pH 7.0 and complete inactivation was observed after incubation at 55 °C for 60 min rRmGST tolerated high salt concentrations (1.0 M NaCl) and was stable at pH 3.0. Additionally, the recombinant protein nearly kept whole activity in Hg2+ and Mn2+, and could tolerate Ca2+, Cu2+, Mg2+, Cd2+, EDTA, thiourea, urea, Tween-80, H2O2 and Triton X-100. Real-time quantitative PCR showed that relative expression of the GST gene was significantly increased under Cu2+ and low temperature stress. These results indicate that rRmGST is a typical low thermostable enzyme, while its other characteristics, heavy metal and low temperature tolerance, might be related to its Antarctic home environment.
Variability of expression of the major glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) of liver, GSTA1 and GSTA2, is thought to affect the efficiency of detoxification of xenobiotics, including chemical carcinogens. Polymorphism of the GSTA1 regulatory sequence determines some of the variation of hepatic GSTA1 expression, but the polymorphisms in GSTA2 (exons 5 and 7) were not thought to affect GSTA2 activity. By examining GST protein expression for a set of human liver and pancreas samples (coupled with a cloning/polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism strategy), we identified a novel substitution Pro 110 Ser (328C>T) and the corresponding novel variant GSTA2* E (Ser 110 Ser 112 Lys 196 Glu 210 ), and confirmed the presence of variants GSTA2*A (Pro 110 Ser 112 Lys 196 Glu 210 ), GSTA2*B (Pro 110 Ser 112 Lys 196 Ala 210 ) and GSTA2*C (Pro 110 Thr 112 Lys 196 Glu 210 ). GSTA2*C occurred at 30-60% (i.e. approximately 100-fold more frequent than previously reported) and GSTA2*E occurred (heterozygous) at approximately 11%. Hepatic expression of the Ser 112 variants (GSTA2*A, GSTA2*B or GSTA2*E) was approximately four-fold higher than that of the Thr 112 variant (GSTA2*C). Compared to any other variant, GSTA2E had lower rates of catalysis towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), 4-vinylpyridine, and cumene-, t-butyl- and arachidonic acid hydroperoxides, although k cat /K m for CDNB were similar for all four variants. Using a prostate cancer case-control population, it was found that GSTA1*A/GSTA2 C335 and GSTA1*B/GSTA2 G335 were in linkage disequilibrium in Caucasians but not in African-Americans. However, there were no significant differences In the distribution of these polymorphisms or resultant haplotypes by case status. Nevertheless, the rare genotypes, GSTA2*E/*E and GSTA1*B/*B + GSTA2*C/ *C (potential low GSTA2 activity and low hepatic GSTA1 and GSTA2 expression, respectively) could increase the risk of adverse effects of xenobiotics via compromised efficiency of detoxification.
Abstract The interindividual variation in the in vitro conjugation of methylene chloride with glutathione by cytosolic glutathione S -transferase (GST) was investigated with 22 human liver samples. In three of the samples no activity towards methylene chloride was observed. Eleven samples showed an activity ranging from 0.20 to 0.41 (0.31 ± 0.08) nmol/min/mg protein, and eight samples an activity of 0.82-1.23 (1.03 ± 0.14) nmol/min/mg protein. The activities towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) of these three groups were 1.17 ± 0.25, 1.12 ± 0.35 and 1.20 ± 0.53 μmol/min/mg protein, respectively. In nine of the liver samples, the α-, μ- and π-clas GST subunits were quantified. In two of these samples, no activity was observed towards methylene chloride, while α-,μ- and ;π-class subunits were expressed in these human liver cytosolic samples. As the highest activity towards methylene chloride was still 1.4 times lower than the activity in rat cytosol, the existence of the three populations seems to be of little importance for human risk assessment.
The glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in intact human IGR-39 melanoma cells was determined by the quantification by HPLC-analysis of the excreted glutathione (GSH) conjugate (S-(2,4-dinitrophenyl)glutathione; DNPSG). The major GST subunit expressed in these melanoma cells is the pi-class GST subunit P1. Using this system, the effect of exposure for 1 h to a series of alpha, beta-unsaturated carbonyl compounds at non-toxic concentrations was studied. Curcumin was the most potent inhibitor (96% inhibition at 25 microM), while 67 and 61% inhibition at 25 microM was observed for ethacrynic acid and trans-2-hexenal, respectively. Moderate inhibition was observed for cinnamaldehyde and crotonaldehyde, while no inhibition was found for citral. The reactive acrolein did not inhibit the DNPSG-excretion at 2.5 microM, the highest non-toxic concentration. Up to about 50% GSH-depletion was found after treatment with crotonaldehyde, curcumin and ethacrynic acid, however the consequences for GST conjugation are presumably small. Reversible inhibition of GST was the major mechanism of inhibition of DNPSG-excretion in melanoma cells, except in the cases of curcumin and ethacrynic acid, which compounds also inactivated GSTP1-1 by covalent modification. This was clear from the fact that depending on the dose between 30 and 80% inhibition was still observed after lysis of the cells, under which conditions reversible inhibition was is absent. Intracellular levels of DNPSG remained relatively high in the case of ethacrynic acid. It is possible that ethacrynic acid also inhibits the transport of DNPSG by inhibition of the multidrug resistance-associated protein gene encoding glutathione conjugate export pump (MRP/GS-X pump) in some way.
Biochimica et Biophysica Acta 1847 (2015) 514–525 Contents lists available at ScienceDirect Biochimica et Biophysica Acta journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/bbabio Increased reactive oxygen species production during reductive stress: The roles of mitochondrial glutathione and thioredoxin reductases Paavo Korge a,b , Guillaume Calmettes a,b , James N. Weiss a,b,c, ⁎ a b c UCLA Cardiovascular Research Laboratory, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, CA 90095, United States Department of Medicine (Cardiology), David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, CA 90095, United States Department of Physiology, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, CA 90095, United States a r t i c l e i n f o Article history: Received 12 September 2014 Received in revised form 9 February 2015 Accepted 12 February 2015 Available online 19 February 2015 Keywords: Mitochondria ROS production Reductive stress a b s t r a c t Both extremes of redox balance are known to cause cardiac injury, with mounting evidence revealing that the injury induced by both oxidative and reductive stress is oxidative in nature. During reductive stress, when elec- tron acceptors are expected to be mostly reduced, some redox proteins can donate electrons to O 2 instead, which increases reactive oxygen species (ROS) production. However, the high level of reducing equivalents also con- comitantly enhances ROS scavenging systems involving redox couples such as NADPH/NADP + and GSH/GSSG. Here our objective was to explore how reductive stress paradoxically increases net mitochondrial ROS production despite the concomitant enhancement of ROS scavenging systems. Using recombinant enzymes and isolated perme- abilized cardiac mitochondria, we show that two normally antioxidant matrix NADPH reductases, glutathione re- ductase and thioredoxin reductase, generate H 2 O 2 by leaking electrons from their reduced ﬂavoprotein to O 2 when electron ﬂow is impaired by inhibitors or because of limited availability of their natural electron acceptors, GSSG and oxidized thioredoxin. The spillover of H 2 O 2 under these conditions depends on H 2 O 2 reduction by peroxiredoxin activity, which may regulate redox signaling in response to endogenous or exogenous factors. These ﬁndings may explain how ROS production during reductive stress overwhelms ROS scavenging capability, generating the net mitochondrial ROS spillover causing oxidative injury. These enzymes could potentially be targeted to increase cancer cell death or modulate H 2 O 2 -induced redox signaling to protect the heart against ischemia/reperfusion damage. © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. 1. Introduction Both the production and removal of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in the mitochondrial matrix play critical roles regulating mitochondrial function. ROS-induced redox modiﬁcations of mitochondrial proteins are required for redox signaling to adjust metabolism to changing condi- tions and to regulate cell death and survival pathways. Conventionally, an excess of ROS and reactive nitrogen species (RNS) relative to reducing equivalents is deﬁned as oxidative stress. Conversely, a relative shortage of ROS compared with reducing equivalents in the form of redox couples (GSH/GSSG, NADPH/NADP + , NADH/NAD + , etc.) is deﬁned as reductive Abbreviations: CDNB, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene; FCCP, triﬂuorocarbonylcyanide phenylhydrazone; GDH, glutamate dehydrogenase; GR, glutathione reductase; Gpx1, gluta- thione perioxidase; GSH, reduced glutathione; GSSG, oxidized glutathione; H 2 O 2 , hydrogen peroxide; ICDH, isocitrate dehydrogenase; pCMB, p-chloromercuribenzoic acid; pCMPS, p-chloromercuriphenyl-sulphonate; Prx, peroxiredoxin; O 2 • , superoxide; TCA, tricar- boxylic acid; TrxR1, thioredoxin reductase 1; TrxR2, thioredoxin reductase 2; Trx, thioredoxin 1 and 2. ⁎ Corresponding author at: Department of Medicine (Cardiology), School of Medicine, University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA 90095, United States. Tel.: +1 310 825 9029; fax: +1 310 206 5777. E-mail address: jweiss@mednet.ucla.edu (J.N. Weiss). http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.bbabio.2015.02.012 0005-2728/© 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. stress [1]. However, the latter deﬁnition is somewhat confusing because in isolated mitochondria, reductive stress, in the form of high matrix NADH/NAD + ratios, is known to promote excessive ROS production to a level exceeding ROS scavenging capability, resulting in net H 2 O 2 spillover from mitochondria [2]. Speciﬁcally, experiments have demonstrated that ROS production by alamethicin-permeabilized mito- chondria increases steeply at high NADH/NAD ratios [3], which is tradi- tionally attributed to complex I of the respiratory chain, but can also involve certain tricarboxylic acid cycle (TCA) enzymes, speciﬁcally those containing lipoamide dehydrogenase, the ROS-producing E3 component of alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase and pyruvate dehy- drogenase [3]. When the NADH/NAD + pool becomes highly reduced, so does the NADPH/NADP + pool, which increases matrix antioxidant power to compensate for increase in ROS production and limit ROS spillover. NADPH is a key reducing equivalent supplying the major H 2 O 2 scavenging systems in the matrix, the glutathione/glutathione peroxidase3 (Gpx)/ glutathione reductase (GR) and the peroxiredoxin3 (Prx)/thioredoxin2 (Trx)/thioreductase2 (TrxR2) systems (Fig. 1). Although catalase is also present in the matrix [4,5], it has a much lower afﬁnity for H 2 O 2 [6] and therefore is not likely to play an important role at micromolar concentra- tions of H 2 O 2 . Thus, matrix antioxidant power is ultimately dependent on
BackgroundSeveral cell culture and animal studies demonstrated that citrus bioactive compounds have protective effects against certain types of cancer. Among several classes of citrus bioactive compounds, limonoids were reported to prevent different types of cancer. Furthermore, the structures of citrus limonoids were reported to influence the activity of phase II detoxifying enzymes. The purpose of the study was to evaluate how variations in the structures of citrus limonoids (namely nomilin, deacetyl nomilin, and isoobacunoic acid) and a mixture of limonoids would influence phase II enzyme activity in excised tissues from a mouse model.MethodsIn the current study, defatted sour orange seed powder was extracted with ethyl acetate and subjected to silica gel chromatography. The HPLC, NMR and mass spectra were used to elucidate the purity and structure of compounds. Female A/J mice were treated with three limonoids and a mixture in order to evaluate their effect on phase II enzymes in four different tissues. Assays for glutathione S-transferase and NAD(P)H: quinone reductase (QR) were used to evaluate induction of phase II enzymatic activity.ResultsThe highest induction of GST against 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was observed in stomach (whole), 58% by nomilin, followed by 25% isoobacunoic acid and 19% deacetyl nomilin. Deacetyl nomilin in intestine (small) as well as liver significantly reduced GST activity against CDNB. Additionally isoobacunoic acid and the limonoid mixture in liver demonstrated a significant reduction of GST activity against CDNB. Nomilin significantly induced GST activity against 4-nitroquinoline 1-oxide (4NQO), intestine (280%) and stomach (75%) while deacetyl nomilin showed significant induction only in intestine (73%). Induction of GST activity was also observed in intestine (93%) and stomach (45%) treated with the limonoid mixture. Finally, a significant induction of NAD(P)H: quinone reductase (QR) activity was observed by the limonoid mixture in stomach (200%). In addition, the deacetyl nomilin treatment group displayed an increase in QR activity in liver (183%) and intestine (22%).ConclusionThe results of the present study suggests that, dietary intake of citrus limonoids may provide a protective effect against the onset of various cancers by inducing the activity of certain phase II detoxifying enzymes in specific organs.
Constitutive efflux mechanisms for reduced glutathione (GSH) and the glutathione S-conjugates S-ethylglutathione (ethyl-SG) and S-(2,4-dinitrophenol)-glutathione (DNP-SG) were examined in Xenopus laevis oocytes. Oocytes were loaded by either microinjection with 50 nl of the 3H-labeled compounds or were exposed to unlabeled 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and efflux of DNP-SG synthesized within the oocytes measured spectrophotometrically. Efflux of unlabeled DNP-SG (approximately 1.2 mM intracellular concentration) and microinjected 0.5 mM [3H]DNP-SG was a linear function of time, with approximately 20% released in 3 h at 25 degrees C. [3H] ethyl-SG, 0.5 mM, was released at a comparable rate, whereas only 4% of a tracer dose of [3H]GSH (2.5 mM intracellular GSH) was released in 3 h. Efflux of all three compounds was temperature sensitive and inhibited after ATP depletion but unaffected when Na+ in the culture medium was replaced with K+ or when the pH was changed from 7.5 to either 6.8 or 8.0. Efflux was saturable, with apparent Michaelis constant values of 0.91 +/- 0.19, 0.44 +/- 0.25, and 5.3 +/- 2.2 mM for DNP-SG, ethyl-SG, and GSH, respectively. Bilirubin ditaurate, 0.5 mM, cis-inhibited efflux of 0.5 mM [3H]DNP-SG, 0.5 mM [3H]ethyl-SG, and 2.5 mM [3H]GSH. DNP-SG and ethyl-SG efflux was also cis-inhibited by other glutathione S-conjugates, 0.25 mM 4,4'-diisothiocyanostilbene-2,2'-disulfonic acid, 0.5 mM sulfobromophthalein, and 0.5 mM dibromosulfophthalin, but not by 0.25 mM taurocholate. [3H]GSH release (2.5 mM) was unaffected by these compounds or by 10 mM extracellular GSH or methionine. These findings indicate that Xenopus oocytes have an endogenous ATP-sensitive mechanism for extruding glutathione S-conjugates, with properties comparable to ATP-dependent glutathione S-conjugate/organic anion transport systems described in a variety of cell types. However, in contrast to mammalian cells, GSH and ethyl-SG release from Xenopus oocytes was also inactivated after cellular ATP depletion but was not sensitive to membrane depolarization in high-K+ medium or trans-stimulated by extracellular GSH, indicating that efflux of these organic anions from Xenopus laevis oocytes is also mediated by an ATP-sensitive mechanism.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs, EC 2.5.1.18) belong to a large family of functionally different enzymes that catalyze the S-conjugation of glutathione with a wide variety of electrophilic compounds including carcinogens and anticancer drugs. Drug resistance may result from reduction in apoptosis of neoplastic cells when exposed to antineoplastic drugs. The c-Jun N-terminal Kinase (JNK) belongs to the family of stress kinases and has been shown to be required for the maximal induction of apoptosis by DNA-damaging agents. Recently, an inhibition of JNK activity by GST P1-1, which was reversed by polymerization induced by oxidative stress, has been reported in 3T3-4A mouse fibroblast cell lines. The finding that GST P1-1 might inhibit JNK activity and that it is frequently highly expressed in tumor tissues suggests its possible implication in "apoptosis resistance" during antineoplastic therapy. We investigated the modulation of GST P1-1 during apoptosis in a neoplastic T-cell line (Jurkat) induced by hydrogen peroxide and etoposide. Apoptosis was paralleled by the appearance of a dimeric form of GST P1-1 on western blotting, associated with an increase in the Km(GSH) and a reduction in GST P1-1 specific activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, which reached statistical significance only in H(2)O(2)-treated cells. Our data seem to suggest that H(2)O(2) and etoposide may partly act through a process of partial inactivation of the GST P1-1, possibly involving the "G" site in the process of dimerization, and thus favoring programmed cell death.
Benzyl isothiocyanate (BITC), present in cruciferous vegetables, is an efficient substrate of human glutathione S-transferase P1-1 (hGST P1-1). BITC also acts as an affinity label of hGST P1-1 in the absence of glutathione, yielding an enzyme inactive toward BITC as substrate. As monitored by using BITC as substrate, the dependence of k of inactivation (K(I)) of hGST P1-1 on [BITC] is hyperbolic, with K(I) = 66 +/- 7 microM. The enzyme incorporates 2 mol of BITC/mol of enzyme subunit upon complete inactivation. S-Methylglutathione and 8-anilino-1-naphthalene sulfonate (ANS) each yield partial protection against inactivation and decrease reagent incorporation, whereas S-(N-benzylthiocarbamoyl)glutathione or S-methylglutathione + ANS protects completely. Mapping of proteolytic digests of modified enzyme by using mass spectrometry reveals that Tyr(103) and Cys(47) are modified equally. S-Methylglutathione reduces modification of Cys(47), indicating this residue is at/near the glutathione binding region, whereas ANS decreases modification of Tyr(103), suggesting this residue is at/near the BITC substrate site, which is also near the binding site of ANS. The Y103F and Y103S mutant enzymes were generated, expressed, and purified. Both mutants handle substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene normally; however, Y103S exhibits a 30-fold increase in K(m) for BITC and binds ANS poorly, whereas Y103F has a normal K(m) for BITC and K(d) for ANS. These results indicate that an aromatic residue at position 103 is essential for the binding of BITC and ANS. This study provides evidence for the existence of a novel xenobiotic substrate site in hGST P1-1, which can be occupied by benzyl isothiocyanate and is distinct from that of monobromobimane and 1-chloro-2,4 dinitrobenzene.
A spectrophotometric method is described for the detection of total glutathione (oxidized and reduced) in plant extracts based on the conjugation of reduced glutathione with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) in the presence of dithioerythritol and glutathione S-transferase (EC 2.5.1.18) at pH 6.5. Glutathione S-transferase also supported a reaction with homoglutathione at about 5% of the rate with glutathione but, at equilibrium, the absorbance change for the two substrates was similar. The glutathione content of acidic extracts of wheat (Triticum aestivum var. Condor) roots as determined by the 1-chloro-2,4-dinitro-benzene (CDNB) method was 6.5% less than that obtained by the HPLC method based on the fluorescence of the monobromobimane derivative. The recovery of exogenous glutathione, added to the extracts, exceeded 90%. The method is suited to the specific determination of glutathione in poaecean species which also contain hydroxymethyl-glutathione since glutathione S-transferase reportedly does not support a reaction with this compound.
When the amounts of primary prostaglandins formed from endogenous arachidonic acid were determined in homogenates of various tissues of adult rats, prostaglandin D2 was the major prostaglandin found in most tissues. It was formed actively in the spleen (3100 ng/g tissue/5 min at 25 degrees C), intestine (2600), bone marrow (2400), lung (1100), and stomach (630); moderately in the epididymis, skin, thymus, and brain (140-340); and weakly in other tissues (less than 100). Addition of exogenous arachidonic acid (1 mM) accelerated the formation of prostaglandin D2 in all tissues as follows: spleen (15,000); bone marrow, intestine, thymus, liver, and lung (1600-5200); stomach, adrenal gland, epididymis, brain, salivary gland, skin, spinal cord, and seminal vesicle (380-1000); and other tissues (80-310). The activity of prostaglandin D synthetase (prostaglandin-H2 D-isomerase) was detected in 100,000g supernatants of almost all tissues. As judged by glutathione requirement for the reaction, inhibition of the activity by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, and immunotitration or immunoabsorption analyses with specific antibodies, the enzyme in the epididymis, brain, and spinal cord (1.8-9.2 nmol/min/mg protein) was glutathione-independent prostaglandin D synthetase (Y. Urade, N. Fujimoto, and O. Hayaishi (1985) J. Biol. Chem. 260, 12410-12415). The enzyme in the spleen, thymus, bone marrow, intestine, skin, and stomach (2.0-57.1) was glutathione-requiring prostaglandin D synthetase (Y. Urade, N. Fujimoto, M. Ujihara, and O. Hayaishi (1987) J. Biol. Chem. 262, 3820-3825). The activity in the kidney and testis (3.7-4.5) was catalyzed by glutathione S-transferase. The activity in the liver, lung, adrenal gland, salivary gland, heart, pancreas, and muscle (0.6-5.1) was due to both the glutathione-requiring synthetase and the transferase.
Abstract Glutathione S-transferase (GST, EC 2.5.1.18) is an enzyme responsible for inactivation of a large variety of toxic, electrophilic compounds and organic peroxides. GST activity and GST pi expression were studied in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Studies were conducted on cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), blood serum and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) obtained from 40 ALS patients. CSF from 30 subjects without neurological diseases and blood from 40 healthy blood donors were used as controls. GST activity assayed with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (substrate for transferase activity) and cumene peroxide (substrate for peroxidase activity) was significantly decreased in PBMC of ALS patients, as well as the GST pi expression on both mRNA and protein level. The mean peroxidase activity was however significantly increased in CSF and serum of ALS patients with the specificity of 80% and 73%, and the sensitivity of 78% and 85%, respectively. It can thus be concluded that the protective barrier formed by GST is originally affected in peripheral blood of ALS patients, and may increase their vulnerability to toxic effects of electrophilic compounds and organic peroxides. Studies on a larger group are needed to answer the question whether GSH-Px determination may be implicated in the diagnosis of ALS.
The reaction of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene with aniline in acetonitrile is catalysed by R4NY where Y is Cl, Br, I, or toluene-p-sulphonate, but not by 1,4-diazabicyclo [2.2.2.] octane (DABCO). When the nucleophile is changed to n-butylamine or morpholine, addition of tetraethylammonium chloride has only a small effect; the reactions of all three nucleophiles are not catalysed by tetraethylammonium perchlorate. The reaction of 1-fluoro-2,4-dinitrobenzene with aniline is strongly catalysed by tetraethylammonium chloride, to a lesser extent by the bromide and toluene-p-sulphonate and also by trimethylamine hydrochloride, but not by tetraethylammonium perchlorate. The reactions of morpholine with 1-fluoro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and piperidine with 2,4-dinitrophenyl phenyl ether are not catalysed by amine salts. The results are consistent with the formation and stabilisation of the intermediate formed in aromatic nucleophilic substitution reactions by the anions of the salts, when the nucleophile is aniline.
Glutathione S-transferases (EC.2.5.1.18, GSTs) were purified from rat liver by S-hexylglutathione affinity chromatography and six isoforms, namely C-1, C-2, C-3, C-4, A-2 and A-1, were isolated by CM-cellulose and DEAE-cellulose ion-exchange columns. Tannic acid and butein showed varying degrees of inhibition on the six individual GST isoforms. When 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was used as a substrate, butein exerted significantly more potent inhibition on the cationic isoforms C-2, C-3 and C-4 with IC50 values of 6.8, 8.5 and 8.0 muM respectively. All the isoforms showed lower activity towards p-nitrobenzyt chloride when compared to CDNB and inhibition of the p-nitrobenzyl chloride-activity by tannic acid and butein was also weaker. The inhibitory effects of tannic acid and butein on each isoform decreased generally with increasing pH in the range of 6.0 to 8.0. The optimum pHs for inhibitions by tannic acid and butein on the six individual isoforms lie in the pH range of 6.0 to 6.5.
article i nfo + progenitor-derived dendritic cells THP-1 monocytes THP-1 macrophages Early detection of the sensitizing potential of chemicals is an emerging issue for chemical, pharmaceutical and cosmetic industries. In our institute, an in vitro classification model for prediction of chemical-induced skin sensitization based on gene expression signatures in human CD34 + progenitor-derived dendritic cells (DC) has been developed. This primary cell model is able to closely mimic the induction phase of sensitization by Langerhans cells in the skin, but it has drawbacks, such as the availability of cord blood. The aim of this study was to investigate whether human in vitro cultured THP-1 monocytes or macrophages display a similar expression profile for 13 predictive gene markers previously identified in DC and whether they also possess a discriminating capacity towards skin sensitizers and non-sensitizers based on these marker genes. To this end, the cell models were exposed to 5 skin sensitizers (ammonium hexachlor- oplatinate IV, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, eugenol, para-phenylenediamine, and tetramethylthiuram disulfide) and 5 non-sensitizers (L-glutamic acid, methyl salicylate, sodium dodecyl sulfate, tributyltin chloride, and zinc sulfate) for 6, 10, and 24 h, and mRNA expression of the 13 genes was analyzed using real- time RT-PCR. The transcriptional response of 7 out of 13 genes in THP-1 monocytes was significantly correlated with DC, whereas only 2 out of 13 genes in THP-1 macrophages. After a cross-validation of a discriminant analysis of the gene expression profiles in the THP-1 monocytes, this cell model demonstrated to also have a capacity to distinguish skin sensitizers from non-sensitizers. However, the DC model was superior to the monocyte model for discrimination of (non-)sensitizing chemicals.
Localization of the placental form of glutathione S-transferase (GST-pi) messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) in three human glioma cell lines (A172, T98G, and Tc77) was studied by in situ hybridization with digoxigenin-labeled GST-pi complementary DNA followed by immunocytochemistry with antidigoxigenin antibody. A172 glioma cells showed hardly any GST-pi mRNA. GST-pi mRNA was recognized in the cytoplasm of T98G and Tc77 glioma cells. Tc77 cells especially had a strong expression of GST-pi mRNA. GST activity and the expression of GST-pi protein were also investigated for these cell lines. Cytosolic GST activity was determined with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate, and the results were as follows: A172, 24.3 +/- 2.0; T98G, 60.8 +/- 4.9; Tc77, 84.0 +/- 1.7 (mean +/- standard deviation, in nanomoles per minute per milligram of protein). The expression level of GST-pi protein analyzed by Western blotting with anti-GST-pi antibody as a primary antibody was compatible with the results of both in situ hybridization of GST-pi mRNA and GST activity. A172 cells possessing the lowest GST activity showed a weak expression of both GST-pi mRNA and protein. Tc77 cells with the highest GST activity had the strongest expression of GST-pi mRNA and protein in three cell lines. The GST-pi expression of T98G cells was moderate. These findings indicate that some human glioma cells have GST-pi expression and that GST-pi in glioma cells is the major isozyme of GSTs for the significant activity of glutathione conjugation.
Background: Several cell culture and animal studies demonstrated that citrus bioactive compounds have protective effects against certain types of cancer. Among several classes of citrus bioactive compounds, limonoids were reported to prevent different types of cancer. Furthermore, the structures of citrus limonoids were reported to influence the activity of phase II detoxifying enzymes. The purpose of the study was to evaluate how variations in the structures of citrus limonoids (namely nomilin, deacetyl nomilin, and isoobacunoic acid) and a mixture of limonoids would influence phase II enzyme activity in excised tissues from a mouse model. Methods: In the current study, defatted sour orange seed powder was extracted with ethyl acetate and subjected to silica gel chromatography. The HPLC, NMR and mass spectra were used to elucidate the purity and structure of compounds. Female A/J mice were treated with three limonoids and a mixture in order to evaluate their effect on phase II enzymes in four different tissues. Assays for glutathione S-transferase and NAD(P)H: quinone reductase (QR) were used to evaluate induction of phase II enzymatic activity. Results: The highest induction of GST against 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was observed in stomach (whole), 58% by nomilin, followed by 25% isoobacunoic acid and 19% deacetyl nomilin. Deacetyl nomilin in intestine (small) as well as liver significantly reduced GST activity against CDNB. Additionally isoobacunoic acid and the limonoid mixture in liver demonstrated a significant reduction of GST activity against CDNB. Nomilin significantly induced GST activity against 4-nitroquinoline 1-oxide (4NQO), intestine (280%) and stomach (75%) while deacetyl nomilin showed significant induction only in intestine (73%). Induction of GST activity was also observed in intestine (93%) and stomach (45%) treated with the limonoid mixture. Finally, a significant induction of NAD(P)H: quinone reductase (QR) activity was observed by the limonoid mixture in stomach (200%). In addition, the deacetyl nomilin treatment group displayed an increase in QR activity in liver (183%) and intestine (22%).
The glutathione transferase from squid digestive gland is unique in its very high catalytic activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and in its ancestral relationship to the genes encoding the S-crystallins of the lens of cephalopod eye. The three-dimensional structure of this glutathione transferase in complex with the product 1-(S-glutathionyl)-2,4-dinitrobenzene (GSDNB) has been solved by multiple isomorphous replacement techniques at a resolution of 2.4 A. Like the cytosolic enzymes from vertebrates, the squid protein is a dimer. The structure is similar in overall topology to the vertebrate enzymes but has a dimer interface that is unique when compared to all of the vertebrate and invertebrate structures thus far reported. The active site of the enzyme is very open, a fact that appears to correlate with the high turnover number (800 s-1 at pH 6.5) toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Both kcat and kcat/KmCDNB exhibit pH dependencies consistent with a pKa for the thiol of enzyme-bound GSH of 6.3. The enzyme is not very efficient at catalyzing the addition of GSH to enones and epoxides. This particular characteristic appears to be due to the lack of an electrophilic residue at position 106, which is often found in other GSH transferases. The F106Y mutant enzyme is much improved in catalyzing these reactions. Comparisons of the primary structure, gene structure, and three-dimensional structure with class alpha, mu, and pi enzymes support placing the squid protein in a separate enzyme class, sigma. The unique dimer interface suggests that the class sigma enzyme diverged from the ancestral precursor prior to the divergence of the precursor gene for the alpha, mu, and pi classes.
Abstract Protection by 2(3)- tert -butyl-4-hydroxyanisole (BHA) and related phenols against chemical carcinogens, mutagens and other toxins has been attributed to the elevation of tissue levels of non-oxygenative detoxification enzymes. To analyze the mechanisms and specificity of these enzyme inductions, we synthesized a series of mono- and dialkyl ethers of tert -butylhydroquinone (R 1 O-[(CH 3 ) 3 C-C 6 H 3 ]-OR 2 ) and its dimer. The abilities of these compounds to elevate the cytosolic specific activities of glutathione S -transferases (measured with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and l,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene) and of NAD(P)H: quinone reductase in liver, upper small intestine and forestomach of female CD-1 mice were evaluated. The animals were fed five daily doses of 50 gmmoles of each monomer (or 25 μmoles of each dimer). The structures of the monomers examined were: R 1 = H and R 2 = CH 3 (I), R 2 = C 2 H 5 (VI), R 2 = (CH 2 ) 2 CH 3 ( VIII ), R 2 = CH1(CH 3 ) 2 (X); R 1 = CH 3 and R 2 = C 2 H 5 ( VII ), R 2 = (CH 2 ) 2 CH 3 ( IX ), R 2 = CH(CH 3 ) 2 ( XI ); R 2 = CH 3 and R 1 = C 2 H 5 ( III ), R 1 = (CH 2 ) 2 CH 3 ( IV ) and R 1 = CH(CH 3 ) 2 (V). In addition, the monomethyl (XIII), monoethyl (XIV) and mono- n -propyl (XV) ethers of BHA dimer (XII; 2,2'-dihydroxy-3,3'-di- tert -butyl-5,5'-dimethoxybiphenyl) were also prepared. Under the conditions tested, all compounds were ineffective as enzyme inducers in the forestomach but produced coordinate induction of enzymes (generally 2- to 6-fold) in the cytosols of liver and mucosa of proximal small intestine. Increases in bulk of R 1 and R 2 beyond methyl groups tended to decrease the inductive potency of both monomers and dimers. The lack of strict structural specificity suggests that the induction depends on metabolic conversion of the analogues to common types of metabolites.
Hepatic cytosolic fractions prepared from 14 human donors were analysed for glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity towards synthetic aflatoxin B1-8,9-epoxide (AFBO). In addition, GST-AFBO activity of pooled human liver cytosols was compared with rat, hamster, and mouse liver cytosol GST-AFBO activities. Consistent with previous studies, human liver cytosolic GSTs exhibited little activity towards AFBO. Hepatic GST-AFBO activities of rat, hamster, and mouse were 48-, 56-, and 312-fold greater, respectively, than observed for human liver using synthetic AFBO, and 70-, 465-, and 3545-fold greater, respectively, than observed for human liver using microsomally-generated AFBO. Furthermore, there was a 58-fold variation in hepatic GST-AFBO activities among the 14 human samples using synthetic AFBO as a substrate. Large interindividual variations were also observed with respect to GST activities towards bromosulfophthalein (BSP, 92-fold variation) and 3,4-dichloronitrobenzene (DCNB, 36-fold variation). Lesser interindividual variations were observed with respect to human liver GST activities towards benzo(a)pyrene-4,5-oxide (BaPO, 9-fold variation), 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB, 8.5-fold variation), cumene hydroperoxide (CHP, 5-fold variation), and p-nitrophenyl acetate (NPA, 4-fold variation). No correlation was found among GST-AFBO activities and the presence of GST mu as determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) or GST-trans-stilbene oxide (TSO) catalytic activity. Our observations support those of previous studies indicating that human liver cytosolic GSTs are relatively ineffective at conjugating AFBO. Furthermore, our data indicate that humans exhibit large inter-individual differences with respect to hepatic cytosolic GST conjugation of AFBO and certain other GST substrates.
1. Anthocyanins and their aglycone anthocyanidins represent the most abundant flavonoids in human diet and popular constituents of various dietary supplements. The aim of this study was to evaluate inhibitory effect of four anthocyanidins (delphinidin, cyanidin, malvidin and pelargonidin) on three families of important drug-metabolizing enzymes: carbonyl reductases (CBRs), glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) and UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGT). 2. Human or rat hepatic subcellular fractions were incubated with or without pure anthocyanidins (100 µM) and the activities of CBR, GST and UGT were assayed using menadione, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and p-nitrophenol as substrates, respectively. For the most potent inhibitors, half maximal inhibitory concentrations (IC50) were determined and the inhibition kinetics study was performed. 3. Anthocyanidins inhibited weakly the activity of GST and moderately the activities of CBR and UGT. Cyanidin was the most potent inhibitor of human UGT with IC50 = 69 µM (at 200 µM substrate concentration) and competitive type of action. Delphinidin acted as significant non-competitive inhibitor of human CBR with IC50 = 16 µM (at substrate concentration 500 µM). The inhibitory potency of anthocyanidins differed in rat and human samples significantly. 4. Anthocyanidins are able to inhibit CBR and UGT in vitro. Possible interference of anthocyanidins (in high-dose dietary supplements) with simultaneously administered drugs, which are UGT or CBR substrates, should be checked.
Abstract Bivalves are animals with worldwide distribution. Although they play key roles in economic activities, human feeding and environmental studies, there is a considerable lack of knowledge about the relationship between their immune system and antioxidant defenses. Here, we performed an in vitro experiment where Crassostrea gigas hemocytes were exposed to the electrophilic compound 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB, 0.1–50 μM) for one hour. CDNB treatment clearly disturbed thiol homeostasis, causing a concentration-dependent decrease in the glutathione (GSH) content and a decrease in the activity of two thiol reductases, glutathione reductase (GR – 2.5 and 50 μM CDNB) and thioredoxin reductase (TrxR – only 50 μM CDNB). The MTT reduction assay showed that none of the CDNB concentrations tested significantly altered cell viability. However, there was a decrease in the hemocyte's ability to uptake the neutral red dye, which indicates lysosomal impairment (≥12.5 μM CDNB). Cellular immunocompetence was further investigated and, despite the lower GSH content, GR activity and impairment in lysosome integrity, hemocyte functions (adhesion capacity, phagocytosis of latex beads and laminarin-induced ROS production) were preserved in the 2.5 and 12.5 μM CDNB treatments. These results suggest a minor importance of thiol pools and GR activity in C. gigas hemocyte's immunocompetence, in an in vitro acute exposure model. The 50 μM CDNB treatment, however, significantly compromised all the measured hemocyte functions. This response was associated with TrxR inhibition, increased lysosome impairment, decreased GSH content, and lower GR activity. Therefore, it seems that TrxR may be particularly important for the hemocyte function, or, alternatively, it is only affected when a deeply aggravated scenario in thiol homeostasis is set up. Such findings point out the need for further studies towards a better understanding of antioxidant and immune defenses interactions in bivalve cellular systems.
To reach its target tissue, methylmercury must traverse brain capillary endothelial cells, the site of the blood-brain barrier. Methylmercury uptake from blood plasma into these cells is mediated in part by an amino acid carrier that transports the methylmercury-L-cysteine complex; however, the mechanism by which it is released from the endothelial cells into brain interstitial space is unknown. Using bovine brain capillary endothelial cells in culture, the present study examined the hypothesis that methylmercury is transported out of these cells as a glutathione (GSH) complex. GSH concentration in cultured bovine brain capillary endothelial cells was 13.1 +/- 3.3 nmol/mg protein. Depletion of intracellular GSH in [203Hg]methylmercury-preloaded cells by exposure to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene or diethyl maleate decreased the rate of [203Hg]methylmercury efflux. Incubation of [203Hg]methylmercury-preloaded cells with high concentrations of S-methylglutathione, S-ethylglutathione, S-butylglutathione, and sulfobromophthalein-glutathione inhibited [203Hg]methylmercury efflux. The GSH analogs gamma-glutamylglycylglycine and ophthalmic acid also inhibited [203Hg]methylmercury efflux, but to a lesser degree than the glutathione S-conjugates, whereas L-leucine, L-methionine, and L-alanine had no effect. Efflux was not affected by depletion of intracellular ATP with 2-deoxyglucose or antimycin A. These results indicate that complexation with GSH and subsequent transport of the complex by an ATP-independent mechanism may be involved in the transport of methylmercury out of brain capillary endothelial cells.
Abstract We are investigating the effects of in vivo exposure of prototypical enzyme inducing agents on hepatic biotransformation enzyme expression in largemouth bass ( Micropterus salmoides ), a predatory game fish found throughout the United States and Canada. The current study targeted those genes involved in biotransformation and oxidative stress that may be regulated by Ah-receptor-dependent pathways. Exposure of bass to β-naphthoflavone (β-NF, 66 mg/kg, i.p.) elicited a 7–9-fold increase in hepatic microsomal cytochrome P4501A-dependent ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase (EROD) activities, but did not affect cytosolic GST catalytic activities toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) or 5-androstene-3,17-dione (ADI). Glutathione S-transferase A (GST-A) mRNA expression exhibited a transient, but non-significant increase following exposure to β-NF, and generally tracked the minimal changes observed in GST–CDNB activities. Expression of the mRNA encoding glutamate-cysteine ligase catalytic subunit (GCLC), the rate-limiting enzyme in glutathione (GSH) biosynthesis, was increased 1.7-fold by β-NF. Changes in GCLC mRNA expression were paralleled by increases in intracellular GSH. In summary, largemouth bass hepatic CYP1A-dependent and GSH biosynthetic pathways, and to a lesser extent GST, are responsive to exposure to β-NF.
Abstract The reversibility of the conjugation reaction of the diuretic drug ethacrynic acid (EA), an α , β -unsaturated ketone, with glutathione and glutathione S -transferase P1-1 (GST P1-1) has been studied. When the glutathione conjugate of EA was incubated with a 5-fold molar excess of N -acetyl-l-cysteine or GST P1-1, a time-dependent transfer of EA to N -acetyl-l-cysteine or GST P1-1 was observed. With increasing pH, the pseudo first order rate constants of transfer of EA to N -acetyl-l-cysteine increased from 0.010 h −1 (pH 6.4) to 0.040 h −1 (pH 7.4) and 0.076 h1 (pH 8.4). From the fact that preincubation of GST Pl-1 with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene reduced the incorporation of [ 14 C]EA from 0.94 ± 0.21 (SD) to 0.16 ± 0.02 mol EA/mol subunit and from automated Edman degradation of the major radioactive peptide isolated after pepsin digestion of the [ 14 C]EA-labeled enzyme, it was concluded that the reaction of EA takes place with cysteine 47 of GST P1-1. When GST P1-1 was inactivated with a 5-fold molar excess of EA, adding an excess of glutathione resulted in full restoration of the catalytic activity in about 120 h. These findings may have several implications. Under normal physiological conditions the inhibition of GST P1-1 by covalent binding of EA would be reversed by glutathione, leaving reversible inhibition by the glutathione conjugate of EA and by EA itself as the main mechanism of inhibition; however, when glutathione levels are low the covalent inhibition might be predominant, resulting in a completely different time course for the inhibition. The costs of publication of this article were defrayed in part by the payment of page charges. This article must therefore be hereby marked advertisement in accordance with 18 U.S.C. Section 1734 solely to indicate this fact.
A series of alpha,beta-unsaturated aldehydes was evaluated to determine if these compounds could mediate inducible expression of glutathione S-transferase (GST) through the 5'-flanking antioxidant response element (ARE). The ARE from rGST A1 was subcloned into a luciferase reporter construct and used to transiently transfect rat Clone 9 hepatoma cells. Transfected cells were treated with 4-hydroxy-trans-2-nonenal (4-HNE), trans-2-hexenal (t-2-HE), 2-propenal (acrolein, 2-PE), and ethacrynic acid (EA), a control compound also containing an alpha,beta-unsaturated carbonyl moiety. Each compound was evaluated for cytotoxicity to construct dosing regimens in transfection studies. IC50 values for growth inhibition were measured using 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2, 5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide. IC50 values in Clone 9 cells were: 4-HNE, 6.3 +/- 0.7 microM; t-2-HE, 16.0 +/- 0.7 microM; 2-PE, 2.2 +/- 0.4 microM; and EA, 38.0 +/- 1.6 microM. A dose-dependent increase in luciferase activity was observed in transfected cells with all four compounds tested, indicating that alpha, beta-unsaturated aldehydes function as direct activators of the ARE. To determine whether or not the observed promoter activation led to increased transcriptional and translational induction of GST, cells were treated with the various compounds and assayed for increases in GST mRNA, protein, and enzyme activity. Studies in Clone 9 cells revealed increased steady-state message for GST A1 and A4, increased GST A4-4 protein by Western blotting, and increased GST activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in response to treatment with all four compounds evaluated. Collectively, these studies demonstrate that EA and certain alpha,beta-unsaturated aldehydes produced as a result of cellular membrane lipid peroxidation are activators of the ARE and efficient inducers of GST A1-1 and A4-4.
Summary. The incubation of human erythrocytes with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) results in almost quantitative conjugation of glutathione (GSH) to form S-(2,4-dinitrophenyl) glutathione. The reaction is catalysed by erythrocyte glutathione S-transferase. During the present studies we have identified the conjugate in the incubation medium of CDNB-treated erythrocytes, indicating that the conjugate of GSH and CDNB is transported out by the erythrocytes. Quantitation of the conjugate in the incubation medium by amino acid analysis and thin layer chromatography indicates that the erythrocytes transport the conjugate at an approximate rate of 140 nmol/h/ml erythrocytes. The transport of the conjugate is inhibited by sodium fluoride. Exhaustion of ATP from the erythrocytes results in a significant decrease in the rate of transport which is restored with the regeneration of ATP by incubating the erythrocytes with adenine and inosine. This indicates that the transport of conjugate is an energy dependent process.
The steady-state kinetics of the dimeric glutathione transferases deviate from Michaelis-Menten kinetics, but have hyperbolic binding isotherms for substrates and products of the enzymic reaction. The possibility of subunit interactions during catalysis as an explanation for the rate behaviour was investigated by use of rat isoenzymes composed of subunits 1, 2, 3 and 4, which have distinct substrate specificities. The kinetic parameter kcat./Km was determined with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 4-hydroxyalk-2-enals, ethacrynic acid and trans-4-phenylbut-3-en-2-one as electrophilic substrates for six isoenzymes: rat glutathione transferases 1-1, 1-2, 2-2, 3-3, 3-4 and 4-4. It was found that the kcat./Km values for the heterodimeric transferases 1-2 and 3-4 could be predicted from the kcat./Km values of the corresponding homodimers. Likewise, the initial velocities determined with transferases 3-3, 3-4 and 4-4 at different degrees of saturation with glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene demonstrated that the kinetic properties of the subunits are additive. These results show that the subunits of glutathione transferase are kinetically independent.
Glutathione S-transferases play a major role in the protection of tissues from the toxic effects of exnobiotics and the products of lipid peroxidation. In the present studies we demonstrate that human lung has two forms of glutathione (GSH) S-transferase having isoelectric pH of 4.9 and 9.2. These anionic and cationic forms represent about 98% and 2% of the total GSH S-transferase activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). Although the cationic form accounts for only about 2% of the total GSH S-transferase activity of human lung, it comprises 28% of the total GSH S-transferase protein of lung. Both these enzymes express highest activity with CDNB and have similar Km values with this substrate, but the anionic enzyme is more active towards a wider range of substrates. Only the cationic enzyme expresses glutathione peroxidase II activity. Anionic and cationic human lung GSH S-transferases are homodimers of about Mr 22,000 and 24,000 subunits, respectively. Antiserum raised against the anionic GSH S-transferase does not cross react with the cationic form, but does cross react with anionic GSH S-transferases of human placenta, liver, and erythrocytes. A close structural interrelationship between the lung anionic form and placental GSH S-transferases is indicated by similar immunological characteristics and the presence of the same N-terminals for both enzymes.
Glutathione transferases (GSTs) are a family of multifunctional proteins that mainly catalyze the conjugation of intracellular glutathione (GSH) to a wide variety of endogenous and exogenous electrophilic compounds. GSTs play important roles in stress tolerance and in the detoxification metabolism in organisms. A novel GST gene, Pc gstB, was cloned from penicillin producing fungus Penicillium chrysogenum using RT-PCR. The open reading frame (ORF) of Pc gstB was 651 bp and encoded a peptide of 216 residues. The deduced amino acids sequence had conserved GST domain and showed 65% identity to the characterized Aspergillus fumigutus gstB. The entire ORF of Pc gstB was inserted into vector pTrc99A and transformed into Escherichia coli DH5alpha. Recombinant PcGstB was overexpressed and its GST activity toward substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was validated.
The role of glutathione-S-transferase (GST, EC 2.5.1.18) in biochemical host defence in experimental trichinellosis was evaluated. The activity of GST in mouse skeletal muscles was measured during the muscular phase of trichinellosis, starting from the 3rd week post infection (w.p.i.) to the 11th w.p.i. Activity was determined spectrophotometrically by monitoring the formation of thioether (S-2,4-dinitrophenylglutathione) from the reduced form of glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene used as a substrate and as an example of xenobiotics. The changes in the activity of GST were as follows: an increase in activity starts in the 4th w.p.i., peaks (up to 310% of the normal value) in the 6th w.p.i., decreases in the 8th week and a final, weak rise was observed in week 11. The statistically significant changes in GST activity in this phase of experimental trichinellosis suggest that this enzyme participates in the biochemical defence of the host against Trichinella infection.
A selective test for the detection of fructose and sucrose is based on the reaction with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in the presence of a cation-exchange resin in the H + form. Procedure. Place about 4 6 beads of Dowex 50WX8 (20-50mesh) (H + form) impregnated with 1-chloro-2,4dinitrobenzene (saturated solution in chloroform) in a micro test tube. Add 1 drop of the test solution followed by 1 drop of 50 % sulphuric acid and heat for 2 4 min on a boiling water bath. An orange colour on the resin indicates the presence of fructose or sucrose. The sensitivity of the test is enhanced, if freshly prepared resin is used while still moist. Glucose, lactose, xylose, rhamnose and arabinose gave negative tests. Other characteristic colours were developed with the following compounds: aniline (red), salicylaldehyde (red), cinnamaldehyde (orange), diphenylamine (red), methyl-n-propyl ketone (red). The limit of identification was 14.4~tg for fructose and 3.2 gg for sucrose. In the detection of 14.4 gg of fructose the following amounts of foreign compounds can be tolerated: 803rag of acetophenone, 1.9rag of glycine, 24.6mg of nitrobenzene, 39.6mg of acetic acid and 35.6 mg of aniline.
The effect of trans-stilbene oxide (TSO) on organ function and morphology and on drug-metabolizing enzymes was determined in male Sprague-Dawley rats. TSO (300 or 600 mg/kg) was administered i.p., once daily for 5 consecutive days. At a dose of 3400 mg/kg, TSO did no alter body weight, but increased liver weight. The higher dose (600 mg/kg) markedly decreased body weight. TSO treatment (300 mg/kg) induced several drug-metabolizing enzymes. Epoxide hydrolase activity was enhanced in the liver, kidney and lung. In contrast, arylhydrocarbon hydroxylase activity was not significantly altered. Glutathione S-transferase activity, with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate, and uridine diphosphoglucuronyl transferase activity, with p-nitrophenol as substrate, were also increased in the liver and kidney after TSO treatment. It appears that TSO induces hepatic and renal enzyme activities in a similar manner. Treatment with the higher dose of TSO depressed accumulation of p-amino-hippurate by renal cortical slices and increased blood urea nitrogen concentration. Histological examination of kidney sections after treatment with TSO revealed no abnormality. The lower dose led to negligible alteration in liver and the higher dose resulted in mild to moderate hepatic cellular.
Abstract Glutathione transferase (GST) from octopus hepatopancreas was rapidly inactivated by micromolar concentration of Cu(II) in the presence of ascorbate at neutral pH and 0°C. Omitting the metal ion or ascorbate, or replacing the Cu(II) with Fe(II) did not result in any inactivation. Glutathione or the conjugation product of glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene offered complete protection of the enzyme from Cu(II)-induced inactivation. 1-Chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, however, did not provide any protection. The inactivation was time and Cu(II) concentration dependent. The dependence of inactivation rate on Cu(II) concentration displayed saturation kinetics, which suggests that the inactivation occurs in two steps with Cu(II) binding with the enzyme first (KdCu = 260 μM), then the locally generated free radicals modify the essential amino acid residues in the active center, which results in enzyme inactivation. The Cu(II)-ascorbate system is, thus, an affinity reagent for the octopus GST. The enzyme inactivation was demonstrated to be followed by protein cleavage. Native octopus GST has a subunit Mr of 24,000. The inactivated enzyme was cleaved at the C-terminal domain (domain II) of the enzyme molecule and resulted in the formation of peptide fragment of Mr 15,300, which has the identical N-terminal amino acid sequence as the native enzyme. The other half of the peptide with Mr approximately 7700 was visible in the gels only after silver staining, which also revealed a minor cleavage site, also located at the domain II, to produce peptide fragments of Mr approximately 11,300 and 8300. The oxygen carrier molecule in the cephalopods' blood is the copper-containing hemocyanin, which during turnover will release Cu(II). Our results indicate that Cu(II) catalyzes a site-specific oxidation of the essential amino acid residues at the C-terminus of GST causing enzyme inactivation. The modified-enzyme is then affinity cleaved at the putative metal binding site. The ability of octopus GST to bind with free Cu(II) may have important biological implications to enable cephalopods to avoid copper-induced cellular toxicity.
The influence of microwave radiation (2450 MHz, 3,333 pulses per second, duty factor of 0.02, and average specific absorption rate of 0.4 W/kg) on spontaneous hemolysis of human erythrocytes was examined. Cells were exposed to microwave radiation for 20 minutes at 37 degrees, 42 degrees, or 48 degrees C. Some of these cells were sensitized to oxidative damage by treatment with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and/or by coating with wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP) conjugate. Microwave radiation significantly decreased spontaneous hemolysis of untreated cells at 42 degrees C but had no effect at 37 degrees or 48 degrees C. Microwave exposure significantly enhanced a CDNB membrane stabilizing effect at 42 degrees C but had no effect at 37 or 48 degrees C. At 42 degrees C, microwave exposure increased hemolysis of WGA-HRP coated cells. Cells treated with both WGA-HRP and CDNB showed no change in fragility at 42 degrees C and increased fragility at 48 degrees C without a microwave effect. The microwave effects observed appear to involve perturbation of the thermal threshold for oxidative hyperthermic hemolysis.
Abstract Protein kinase G (PKG) Iα mediates the cyclic guanosine monophosphate-mediated vasodilatory effects induced by NO. Endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factors (EDHFs), like H 2 O 2 can activate PKGIα in a cyclic guanosine monophosphate-independent manner, but whether this is true for all EDHFs (e.g., S -nitrosothiols) is unknown. Here, we investigated the contribution of PKGIα to bradykinin-, H 2 O 2 -, L- S -nitrosocysteine-, and light-induced relaxation in porcine coronary arteries, making use of the fact that thioredoxin reductase inhibition with auranofin or 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene potentiates PKGIα. Thioredoxin reductase inhibition potentiated bradykinin and H 2 O 2 , but not L- S -nitrosocysteine or light. The relaxations by the latter 2 and bradykinin, but not those by H 2 O 2 , were prevented by the soluble guanylyl cyclase (sGC) inhibitor 1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo[4,3- a ]quinoxalin-1-one. Yet, after S -nitrosothiol depletion with ethacrynic acid, thioredoxin reductase inhibition also potentiated light-induced relaxation, and this was prevented by the Na + -K + ATPase inhibitor ouabain. This indicates that photorelaxation depends on sGC activation by S -nitrosothiols, while only after S -nitrosothiol depletion oxidized PKGIα comes into play, and acts via Na + -K + ATPase. In conclusion, both bradykinin- and light-induced relaxation of porcine coronary arteries depend, at least partially, on oxidized PKGIα, and this does not involve sGC. H 2 O 2 also acts via oxidized PKGIα in an sGC-independent manner. Yet, S -nitrosothiol-induced relaxation is PKGIα-independent. Clearly, PKG activation does not contribute universally to all EDHF responses, and targeting PKGIα may only mimick EDHF under certain conditions. It is therefore unlikely that PKGIα activators will be universal vasodilators.
The steady-state kinetics of the dimeric glutathione transferases deviate from Michaelis-Menten kinetics, but have hyperbolic binding isotherms for substrates and products of the enzymic reaction. The possibility of subunit interactions during catalysis as an explanation for the rate behaviour was investigated by use of rat isoenzymes composed of subunits 1, 2, 3 and 4, which have distinct substrate specificities. The kinetic parameter kcat /Km was determined with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 4-hydroxyalk-2-enals, ethacrynic acid and trans-4-phenylbut-3-en-2-one as electrophilic substrates for six isoenzymes: rat glutathione transferases 1-1, 1-2, 2-2, 3-3, 3-4 and 4-4. It was found that the kcat./Km values for the heterodimeric transferases 1-2 and 3-4 could be predicted from the kcat./Km values of the corresponding homodimers. Likewise, the initial velocities determined with transferases 3-3, 3-4 and 4-4 at different degrees of saturation with glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene demonstrated that the kinetic properties of the subunits are additive. These results show that the subunits of glutathione transferase are kinetically independent.
Biochemical tests -A total of 90-120 adult females were collected at each study site and frozen at -70°C prior to biochemical analysis. The NSE, MFO, GST and modified acetylcholinesterase (MACE) activities were determined according to the methodology described by Brogdon (1988) , Brogdon and Barber (1990a, b) and Brogdon et al. (1997) . Briefly, the head and thorax from females were homogenised individually in 100 µL of 0.01 M potassium phosphate buffer, pH 7.2, and suspended in 1 mL of the same buffer. Aliquots of 50 µL were then transferred to microtiter plate wells. Thirty mosquitoes were analysed per plate in triplicate. Replicates with a variation coefficient that was higher than 0.15 were discarded in order to avoid differences produced by possible manual errors. All enzymatic reactions were conducted at rt. NSE levels were measured at 540 nm after 10 min incubation with 3 mM β-naphthyl acetate. For the MFO assay, absorbance was measured at 620 nm after 5 min incubation with 2 mM 3,3',5,5'-tetramethyl-benzidina. GST levels were measured in the reaction containing 2 mM reduced glutathione and 1 mM 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. The reaction rates were measured at 340 nm at 5 min. MACE levels were measured in the reaction containing 2.6 mM acetylthiocholine iodide, 0.3 mM dithio-bis-2-nitrobenzoic acid and 100 mM propoxur. The reaction rates were measured at 414 nm at 10 min. The total protein concentration for each sample was determined using the Bradford (1976) method with Brogdon's modifications (Brogdon 1984a, b). This allowed detection of differences in body mass of the mosquitoes, which was used as a correction factor for the enzyme analysis. At least, three positive and negative controls per plate were used. The negative control absorbance was subtracted from the value for each mosquito for each enzyme thus eliminating the reaction background. The Malanoche strain was used as a susceptible standard population in all of the biochemical analysis performed.
Reaction of some picolines 5 with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (6) in acetone furnished methyl-substituted 2,4-dinitrophenylpyridinium chlorides 7. Further reaction with phenyl(pyridyl)carbonyl hydrazides 8 at room temperature furnished isolable 2,4-dinitroanilino derivatives 9, which were then refluxed in a water:dioxane mixture (1:4, v/v) to furnish the methyl-substituted phenyl(pyridyl)carbonyl iminopyridinium ylides 10. Reduction of the ylides with NaBH4 finally gave rise to the desired methyl-substituted phenyl(pyridyl)carbonylamino-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridines 11. The anti-inflammatory activities of 11a-11l were determined with the carrageenan-soaked sponge model of inflammation in Sprague-Dawley rats, and the analgesic effects of these derivatives were assessed by suppression of acetic acid-induced writhing in male Swiss albino mice. All compounds tested showed moderate to good anti-inflammatory and analgesic effects compared with indomethacin. Compound 11k was the most active analgesic, and 11h was the most effective anti-inflammatory agent among the methyl-substituted tetrahydropyridines.
The residue Cys10 in E. coli glutathione transferase (GST) is apparently equivalent in primary structure to the catalytic Ser residue of the class theta GST and is located near the thiol group of GSH bound to the enzyme. The mutation of Cys10 to Ala, however, increased the specific activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene at pH 6.5. This mutation increased both the kcat and Km values for GSH and affected the pH-activity profile the enzyme. The side chain of Cys10 is thought to be important for construction of the GSH-binding site and partly for lowering the pKa of the GSH thiol, but not to be essential for the catalytic activity.
Although the existence of the rat glutathione S-transferase (GST) M4 ( rGSTM4 ) gene has been known for some time, the corresponding protein has not as yet been purified from tissue. A recombinant rGSTM4-4 was thus expressed in Escherichia coli from a chemically synthesized rGSTM4 gene. The catalytic efficiency ( k cat / K m ) of rGSTM4-4 for the 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) conjugation reaction was 50–180-fold less than that of the well-characterized homologous rGSTM1-1, and the pH optimum for the same reaction was 8.5 for rGSTM4-4 as opposed to 6.5 for rGSTM1-1. Molecular-modelling studies predict that key substitutions in the helix α4 region of rGSTM4-4 account for this p K a difference. A notable structural feature of rGSTM4-4 is the Cys-115 residue in place of the Tyr-115 of other Mu-class GSTs. The thiol group of Cys-115 is redox-reactive and readily forms a mixed disulphide even with GSH; the S-glutathiolated form of the enzyme is catalytically active. A mutated rGSTM4-4 (C115Y) had 6–10-fold greater catalytic efficiency than the wild-type rGSTM4-4. Trp-45, a conserved residue among Mu-class GSTs, is essential in rGSTM4-4 for both enzyme activity and binding to glutathione affinity matrices. Antibodies directed against either the unique C-terminal undecapeptide or tridecapeptide of rGSTM4 reacted with rat and mouse liver GSTs to reveal an orthologous mouse GSTM4-4 present at low basal levels but which is inducible in mouse liver. This subclass of rodent Mu GSTs with redox-active Cys-115 residues could have specialized physiological functions in response to oxidative stress.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are multifunctional enzymes present in virtually all organisms. Besides having an essential role in cellular detoxification, they also perform various other functions, including responses in stress conditions and signaling. GSTs are highly studied in plants and animals; however, the knowledge regarding GSTs in cyanobacteria seems rudimentary. In this study, we report the characterization of a highly pH stable GST from the model cyanobacterium- Synechocystis PCC 6803. The gene sll0067 was expressed in Escherichia coli (E. coli), and the protein was purified to homogeneity. The expressed protein exists as a homo-dimer, which is composed of about 20 kDa subunit. The results of the steady-state enzyme kinetics displayed protein’s glutathione conjugation activity towards its class specific substrate- isothiocyanate, having the maximal activity with phenethyl isothiocyanate. Contrary to the poor catalytic activity and low specificity towards standard GST substrates such as 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene by bacterial GSTs, PmGST B1-1 from Proteus mirabilis, and E. coli GST, sll0067 has broad substrate degradation capability like most of the mammalian GST. Moreover, we have shown that cyanobacterial GST sll0067 is catalytically efficient compared to the best mammalian enzymes. The structural stability of GST was studied as a function of pH. The fluorescence and CD spectroscopy in combination with size exclusion chromatography showed a highly stable nature of the protein over a broad pH range from 2.0 to 11.0. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first GST with such a wide range of pH related structural stability. Furthermore, the presence of conserved Proline-53, structural motifs such as N-capping box and hydrophobic staple further aid in the stability and proper folding of cyanobacterial GST- sll0067.
Microsomal glutathione transferase-1 (MGST1) is a trimeric, membrane-bound enzyme with both glutathione (GSH) transferase and hydroperoxidase activities. As a member of the MAPEG superfamily, MGST1 aids in the detoxication of numerous xenobiotic substrates and in cellular protection from oxidative stress through the GSH-dependent reduction of phospholipid hydroperoxides. However, little is known about the location of the different substrate binding sites, including whether the transferase and peroxidase activities overlap structurally. Although molecular density attributed to GSH has been observed in the 3.2 A resolution electron crystallographic structure of MGST1, the electrophilic and phospholipid hydroperoxide substrate binding sites remain elusive. Amide H-D exchange kinetics and H-D ligand footprinting experiments indicate that GSH and hydrophobic substrates bind within similar, but distinct, regions of MGST1. Site-directed mutagenesis, guided by the H-D exchange results, demonstrates that specific residues within the GSH footprint effect transferase activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. In addition, cytosolic residues surrounding the chemical stress sensor C49 but not modeled in the crystal structure appear to play an important role in the formation of the binding site for hydrophobic substrates. Although the fatty acid/phospholipid binding site structurally overlaps that for GSH, it does not appear to be localized to the same region as other hydrophobic substrates. Finally, H-D exchange mass spectrometry reveals a specific conformational transition that may mediate substrate binding and/or product release. Such structural changes in MGST1 are essential for activation of the enzyme and are important for its biological function.
Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency is characterized by the loss of NADPH and enhanced erythrocyte oxidant sensitivity. Historically, it has been theorized that the elevated oxidant sensitivity of G6PD-deficient erythrocytes arises as the direct consequence of decreased intracellular glutathione (GSH) concentrations. To directly investigate the basis of G6PD deficiency oxidant sensitivity, the effects of altered GSH and NADPH concentrations were examined in normal and G6PD-deficient erythrocytes. The results of this study demonstrated that GSH depletion, by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), had no effect on hemoglobin oxidation in response to hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) generating systems (phenazine methosulfate and menadione bisulfite) in either normal or G6PD-deficient cells. Furthermore, a fourfold to sixfold increase in intracellular GSH concentration also did not protect against H2O2-generating systems in the normal or G6PD-deficient erythrocytes. Conversely, introduction of an NADPH-generating system (purified G6PD) into G6PD-deficient cells resulted in a significant decrease in oxidant sensitivity and an ability to cycle GSH. Further experiments demonstrated that the reduced oxidant sensitivity of the G6PD-reconstituted erythrocytes was not due to the maintenance of GSH levels because CDNB-mediated depletion of GSH did not alter this protective effect. Analysis of these results demonstrated a direct correlation between NADPH, but not GSH, concentration and hemoglobin oxidant sensitivity.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are involved in the phase II detoxification metabolism. To provide a molecular basis for their use as biomarkers of pollution, cytosolic GSTs from the freshwater clam Corbicula fluminea have been purified by glutathione-Sepharose affinity chromatography, anion-exchange chromatography (AEC) and reversed-phase (RP) HPLC. SDS-PAGE of visceral mass (VM) affinity-purified extracts revealed four subunits with apparent molecular masses (MW) of 30.2, 29.2, 28.5 and 27.2 kDa. Analysis by non-denaturing PAGE revealed three acidic dimeric proteins with apparent MW of 64, 55 and 45 kDa, named GSTc1, GSTc2 and GSTc3, respectively, based on their elution order by AEC. Only GSTc2 and GSTc3 exhibited GST activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. A tissue-specific subunit pattern was obtained by RP-HPLC of affinity-purified extracts from VM and gills (GI): three major peaks were resolved, one of which was common to both tissues. MW of each VM subunit was determined by electrospray ionisation-mass spectrometry: 23602+/-1 Da for the major subunit and 23289+/-1 Da for the minor ones. Immunoblot analysis revealed all subunits from both tissues were related to the Pi-class GSTs. In addition, minor VM subunits were slightly related to the Mu-class ones. The interest of such molecular studies in biomonitoring programs is discussed.
Liver and kidney glutathione S-transferase (GST) activities to 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB) as a substrate (GST-D activities) were measured in 280 dogs from five different breeders, and significant individual differences in this activity were observed in both organs. Interestingly, 34 out of the 280 dogs (i.e. 12.1%) were those in which liver GST-D activities were less than 10 nmol/min per mg cytosolic protein, "low GST dogs", and the other dogs were classified as "middle" and "high" GST dogs for which the liver GST-D activities were 10-80 and >80 nmol/min per mg protein, respectively, and occurred at similar percentages (41.4% for the middle GST dog and 46.4% for the high GST dog). Furthermore, the existence of the low GST dogs was not limited to one particular breeder. There was a good correlation (r=0.910) between the liver and kidney GST-D activities, showing low activity in not only the liver but also the kidney in the low GST dogs. Although liver GST activity to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as a substrate (GST-C activity), catalyzed by various GST isozymes in dogs, was significantly correlated with liver GST-D activity, GST-C activity showed more than 450 nmol/min per mg protein even in the low GST dogs. There was no significant difference in cytochrome P450 content, 7-ethoxycoumarin O-deethylase activity or UDP-glucuronosyltransferase activity to p-nitrophenol as a substrate between low GST dogs and the other dogs. Finally, remarkably high plasma concentrations of DCNB were observed in the low GST dogs after single doses of DCNB at 5 or 100 mg/kg. The individual differences in GST-D activity are probably attributable to the content and/or activity of the theta class GST isozyme Yd(f)Yd(f) since it has been reported that glutathione conjugation of DCNB is specifically catalyzed by GSTYd(f)Yd(f) in dogs. In conclusion, we identified a number of low GST dogs in which the GST-D activities were not observed either in vivo or in vitro. The feasibility of using a single low dose of DCNB to phenotype dogs based on GST-D activity was confirmed. It was also suggested that low GST dogs have high susceptibility, including unexpected toxicity or abnormal exposure, to chemicals metabolized by GSTYd(f)Yd(f).
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are a family of detoxifying enzymes that catalyze the conjugation of glutathione (GSH) to electrophiles, thereby increasing the solubility of GSH and aiding its excretion from the cell. In this study, a glutatione S-transferase from the gills of the marine shrimp Litopenaeus vannamei was purified by affinity chromatography using a glutathione-agarose affinity column. GST was purified to homogeneity as judged by reducing SDS-PAGE and zymograms. This enzyme is a homodimer composed of approximately 25-kDa subunits and identified as a Mu-class GST based on its activity against 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and internal peptide sequence. The specific activity of purified GST was 440.12 micromol/(min mg), and the K(m) values for CDNB and GSH are very similar (390 and 335 microM, respectively). The intersecting pattern of the initial velocities of this enzyme in the Lineweaver-Burke plot is consistent with a sequential steady-state kinetic mechanism. The high specific activity of shrimp GST may be related to a highly effective detoxification mechanism necessary in gills since they are exposed to the external and frequently contaminated environment.
1. The inductive effect of N-benzylimidazole (NBI) on hepatic microsomal and cytosolic drug-metabolizing enzyme activities in aryl hydrocarbon (Ah)-responsive C57BL/6N (B6) and Ah-non-responsive DBA/2N (D2) mouse strains was determined and compared with that caused by beta-naphthoflavone (BNF). 2. Relative Ah-responsiveness of the two strains was confirmed by measurement of BNF-induced ethoxyresorufin deethylase (EROD) activity and ELISA immunoquantification. BNF markedly induced EROD activity only in the Ah-responsive B6 mouse strain (65-fold increase). 3. NBI (150 mg/kg per day for 3 days) increased cytochrome P450 concentration similarly in both strains (40 and 60% in B6 and D2 strains, respectively). Compared with BNF treatment of the B6 strain, increases in EROD activity following NBI treatment were only minor. In addition, EROD activity increases were greater in the Ah-nonresponsive D2 strain (300%) than in the Ah-responsive B6 strain (100%) suggesting the possibility of an induction mechanism different from that of recognized Ah receptor agonists. 4. Induction of UDP-glucuronosyltransferase activity (p-nitrophenol acceptor) by BNF was greater in the Ah-responsive B6 strain than in the Ah-non-responsive D2 strain. NBI failed to induce this activity in either strain. 5. Induction of glutathione S-transferase activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene following NBI treatment occurred to the same extent (25% increase) as that seen following BNF treatment, in the Ah-responsive B6 strain. Neither xenobiotic affected this activity in the Ah-non-responsive D2 strain. 6. Although NBI is a major inducer, possessing Ah-like inducing properties in rat, it caused only minor changes in murine drug metabolizing enzymes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Rat liver microsomes were shown to catalyze the conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene with glutathione and this activity has been characterized. It cannot be removed from the microsomes by washing or other procedures which release loosely bound material from membranes. The microsomal glutathione S-transferase can be activated up to eight fold by treatment with N-ethylmaleimide. This activation also affects the apparent Km of the enzyme(s) for both glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. ::: ::: ::: ::: Upon subcellular fractionation of the liver the N-ethylmaleimide-activateable glutathione S-transferase distributes in the same manner as a marker for the endoplasmic reticulum and unlike markers for the other organelles and for the cytoplasm. Treatment of microsomes with proteases revealed that the enzyme is at least partially exposed on the cytoplasmic surface of the endoplasmic reticulum. Finally, three inducers of drug-metabolizing systems–i.e. phenobarbital, methylcholanthrene, and trans-stilbene oxide–all increase the activity of the cytoplasmic glutathione S-transferases, but they do not affect the microsomal activity. ::: ::: ::: ::: These and other considerations indicate that the microsomal glutathione S-transferase(s) is distinct from the cytoplasmic enzymes catalyzing similar reactions. The microsomal enzyme is likely to be involved in drug metabolism and the possibility of activating it through attack on a sulfhydryl group may represent an important physiological response to certain xenobiotics.
Phosphono-analogues of glutathione containing the O = P(OR)2 moiety in place of the cysteinyl residue CH2SH 1a-1d were prepared by solution phase peptide synthesis. Benzyl, benzyloxy-carbonyl, and tert-butyl protecting groups were used to mask the individual amino acid functional groups. The formation of peptide bonds was achieved by the usual peptide synthesis via activation of carboxylic functions with cyclohexylcarbodiimide and subsequent reaction with free amino groups. The thus obtained, fully-protected peptides were each purified by normal phase column chromatography. Deprotection was accomplished by hydrogenolysis and by treatment with HBr/acetic acid yielding the desired phosphonic acid diester 1a-1d. The inhibition of the glutathione conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene by human placental glutathione S-transferase was studied by determining the IC50 values of the new glutathione analogues. The IC50 values were 291 microM, 139 microM, 64 microM, and 21 microM for the dimethyl, diethyl, diisopropyl, and di-n-butyl esters, respectively. The results clearly show that the formal substitution of the glutathione thiol function by phosphonic acid esters leads to a new class of glutathione S-transferase inhibitors. Further investigations directed at the question of whether or not these glutathione analogues are suitable for a modulation in chemotherapy are in progress.
The aims of this study were to investigate whether keratinocytes are capable of playing a direct preimmune role in the pathophysiology of allergic contact dermatitis (ACD) and to examine to what extent the degree of differentiation might influence this. We measured the ability of sensitizing agents to up-regulate intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM-1) expression in cultured normal human keratinocytes (NHK) and in the transformed human keratinocyte HaCaT cell line. In proliferative HaCaT cells, following a 24 h exposure, nickel compounds, para-phenylenediamine (pPD) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene produced a concentration-dependent up-regulation of ICAM-1 expression without reducing cell viability, while K 2 Cr 2 O 7 led to ICAM-1 up-regulation at cytotoxic concentrations, and CrCl 3 was without effect. In NHK, NiSO 4 and pPD induced ICAM-1 expression to a significantly greater extent in proliferative cells than in differentiated cells, where involucrin expression was measured to assess the differentiation state. NiSO 4 - or pPD-pretreatment of proliferative HaCaT cells enhanced T-cell binding, which was abolished by neutralizing antibodies to ICAM-1 or CD18. Our investigations concerning the involvement of oxidative stress in the induction of ICAM-1 expression in response to sensitizing agents were inconclusive. The oxidizing agents FeCl 3 and H 2 O 2 up-regulated ICAM-1 expression in HaCaT cells but there was no clear relationship between the ability of agents to induce ICAM-1 expression and their ability to alter the levels of reduced glutathione. Although pPD increased interleukin-1α release from NHK, this cytokine was not capable of inducing ICAM-1 expression in NHK. Tumour necrosis factor-α, which does induce ICAM-1 expression in NHK, was not detected in response to pPD, arguing against an autocrine pathway of ICAM-1 induction in response to pPD. In summary, we report the direct interaction of sensitizing agents with keratinocytes leading to the generation of immune signals, particularly by proliferative keratinocytes, suggesting an active role for the proliferative keratinocyte in the pathophysiology of ACD.
The effects of aging on selected drug-metabolizing enzyme activities, the pattern of phenol and bile salt sulfotransferase isoenzymes and the pharmacokinetics of acetaminophen were examined in male Fischer 344 rats at ages 5, 14 and 25 months. Aging decreased sulfotransferase activity toward acetaminophen while activity toward glycolithocholate increased with age. Glucuronosyltransferase activity toward estrone increased with age, while activity toward testosterone, morphine and naphthol remained constant. Glutathione-S-transferase (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene) activity was also unchanged through the various age groups. Cytochrome P-450 content and monooxygenase activity (p-nitroanisole demethylation) activity decreased with advancing age. Overall, the age-related in vitro changes in enzyme activities approached or equaled values measured in 5-month-old female Fischer 344 rats. Moreover, age-related alterations in total phenol sulfotransferase activity and the isozyme pattern paralleled changes in the in vivo elimination kinetics and metabolic fate of acetaminophen. The fraction of drug excreted as the sulfate conjugate and the partial clearance to acetaminophen sulfate decreased with increasing age. Conversely, the fraction excreted as the glucuronide and the partial clearance to acetaminophen glucuronide increased with increasing age. There was no effect of aging on the total clearance of acetaminophen. The gender-related differences in the pattern of sulfotransferase isozyme activity toward phenolic and bile salt acceptors disappeared with age. Age-related changes in sulfation and perhaps glucuronidation in male rats appear to feminize hepatic biotransformation and may arise due to altered gonadal hormone status.
H(2)O(2) inactivation of particular GST isoforms has been reported, with no information regarding the overall effect of other ROS on cytosolic GST activity. The present work describes the inactivation of total cytosolic GST activity from liver rats by the oxygen radical-generating system Cu(2+)/ascorbate. We have previously shown that this system may change some enzymatic activities of thiol proteins through two mechanisms: ROS-induced oxidation and non-specific Cu(2+) binding to protein thiol groups. In the present study, we show that nanomolar Cu(2+) in the absence of ascorbate did not modify total cytosolic GST activity; the same concentrations of Cu(2+) in the presence of ascorbate, however, inhibited this activity. Micromolar Cu(2+) in either the absence or presence of ascorbate inhibited cytosolic GST activity. Kinetic studies show that GSH but no 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene prevent the inhibition on cytosolic GST induced by micromolar Cu(2+) either in the absence or presence of ascorbate. On the other hand, NEM and mersalyl acid, both thiol-alkylating agents, inhibited GST activity with differential reactivity in a dose-dependent manner. Taken together, these results suggest that an inhibitory Cu(2+)-binding effect is likely to be negligible on the overall inhibition of cytosolic GST activity observed by the Cu(2+)/ascorbate system. We discuss how modification of GST-thiol groups is related to the inhibition of cytosolic GST activity.
A variant form of an Anopheles dirus glutathione S-transferase (GST), designated AdGSTD4-4, possesses a single amino acid change of leucine to arginine (Leu-103-Arg). Although residue 103 is outside of the active site, it has major effects on enzymic properties. To investigate these structural effects, site-directed mutagenesis was used to generate mutants by changing the non-polar leucine to alanine, glutamate, isoleucine, methionine, asparagine, or tyrosine. All of the recombinant GSTs showed approximately the same expression level at 25 degrees C. Several of the mutants lacked glutathione (GSH)-binding affinity but were purified by S-hexyl-GSH-based affinity chromatography. However the protein yields (70-fold lower), as well as the GST activity (100-fold lower), of Leu-103-Tyr and Leu-103-Arg purifications were surprisingly low and precluded the performance of kinetic experiments. Size-exclusion chromatography showed that both GSTs Leu-103-Tyr and Leu-103-Arg formed dimers. Using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and GSH substrates to determine kinetic constants it was demonstrated that the other Leu-103 mutants possessed a greater K (m) towards GSH and a differing K (m) towards CDNB. The V (max) ranged from 44.7 to 87.0 micromol/min per mg (wild-type, 44.7 micromol/min per mg). Substrate-specificity studies showed different selectivity properties for each mutant. The structural residue Leu-103 affects the active site through H-bond and van-der-Waal contacts with six active-site residues in the GSH binding site. Changes in this interior core residue appear to disrupt internal packing, which affects active-site residues as well as residues at the subunit-subunit interface. Finally, the data suggest that Leu-103 is noteworthy as a sensitive residue in the GST structure that modulates enzyme activity as well as stability.
Weanling rats fed a zinc-deficient diet for 56 days exhibit a decrease in the total activities of glutathione transferases with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrate in the liver, esophagus and stomach. The level of acid-soluble sulfhydryl group, on the other hand, is decreased in the liver, but elevated in the esophagus and kidney. Deficient rats fed a zinc-replenished diet for just 7 days have a fully restored glutathione transferase activity in all tissues except the liver. In view of our earlier findings that the carcinogenic effects of nitrosamines are enhanced in zinc-deficient rats, the results that the dietary zinc deficiency reduces the activity of a 'chemical carcinogen-detoxifying enzyme system' are of more than routine interest.
Abstract Several cases of skin sensitization have been reported following the application of thimerosal, which is composed of ethyl mercury and thiosalicylic acid (TSA). However, few in vitro studies have been carried out on human dendritic cells (DCs) which play an essential role in the initiation of allergic contact dermatitis. The aim of the present study was to identify the effect of thimerosal and other mercury compounds on human DCs. To address this purpose, DCs derived from monocytes (mono-DCs) were used. Data show that thimerosal and mercury derivatives induced DC activation, as monitored by CD86 and HLA-DR overexpression associated with the secretion of tumor necrosis factor α and interleukin 8, similarly to lipopolysaccharide and the sensitizers, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB) and nickel sulfate, which were used as positive controls. In contrast, TSA, the non-mercury part of thimerosal, as well as dichloronitrobenzene, a DNCB negative control, and the irritant, sodium dodecyl sulfate, had no effect. Moreover, oxidative stress, monitored by ROS induction and depolarization of the mitochondrial membrane potential, was induced by thimerosal and mercury compounds, as well as DNCB, in comparison with hydrogen peroxide, used as a positive control. The role of thiol oxidation in the initiation of mono-DC activation was confirmed by a pre-treatment with N -acetyl- l -cysteine which strongly decreased chemical-induced CD86 overexpression. These data are in agreement with several clinical observations of the high relevance of thimerosal in patch-test reactions and prove that human mono-DCs are useful in vitro tools for determining the allergenic potency of chemicals.
Abstract Because the glutathione S-transferases perform a detoxification function in liver and kidney, evidence for them was sought in the intestine, another major site of contact with xenobiotics. The range of activity with several different substrates was similar to that of liver: highest activity was observed with 1-chioro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Antibodies prepared against homogeneous rat liver transfer-ases A, B, and E gave lines of identity with cytosol obtained from intestinal epithelial cells. With 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate a shallow gradient of increasing activity was observed from crypt to tip cells of jejunal epithelium. In cells at all stages of maturation, activity was increased in response to phenobarbital whereas alkaline phosphatase, thymidine kinase and γ-glutamyltranspeptidase were not induced. Activity was greatest in the duodenum and jejunum, and lowest in the colon and stomach. The data arc consistent with a detoxification role for the glutathione S-transferases in intestine.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are multifunctional enzymes present in virtually all organisms. Besides having an essential role in cellular detoxification, they also perform various other functions, including responses in stress conditions and signaling. GSTs are highly studied in plants and animals; however, the knowledge regarding GSTs in cyanobacteria seems rudimentary. In this study, we report the characterization of a highly pH stable GST from the model cyanobacterium-Synechocystis PCC 6803. The gene sll0067 was expressed in Escherichia coli (E. coli), and the protein was purified to homogeneity. The expressed protein exists as a homo-dimer, which is composed of about 20 kDa subunit. The results of the steady-state enzyme kinetics displayed protein's glutathione conjugation activity towards its class specific substrate-isothiocyanate, having the maximal activity with phenethyl isothiocyanate. Contrary to the poor catalytic activity and low specificity towards standard GST substrates such as 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene by bacterial GSTs, PmGST B1-1 from Proteus mirabilis, and E. coli GST, sll0067 has broad substrate degradation capability like most of the mammalian GST. Moreover, we have shown that cyanobacterial GST sll0067 is catalytically efficient compared to the best mammalian enzymes. The structural stability of GST was studied as a function of pH. The fluorescence and CD spectroscopy in combination with size exclusion chromatography showed a highly stable nature of the protein over a broad pH range from 2.0 to 11.0. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first GST with such a wide range of pH related structural stability. Furthermore, the presence of conserved Proline-53, structural motifs such as N-capping box and hydrophobic staple further aid in the stability and proper folding of cyanobacterial GST-sll0067.
We decided to prepare three nitrones 13-15 that have increasing lipophilicity (Fig. 4) . The key reaction in the synthesis of these N-arylpyridinium salts is the Zincke reaction, 24 ,25 which requires a two-step procedure (Scheme 2). First a pyridine 16 is reacted with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene 17 to give an N-(2,4-dinitrophenyl)pyridinium chloride 18, and this is then reacted with an aniline 19 to give a new N-arylpyridinium salt 20 and 2,4-dinitroaniline 21. The mechanism of this second step, which is the Zincke reaction, involves nucleophilic attack by the nitrogen atom of the aniline at C-2 of the pyridinium ion, ring opening, E-Z interconversions, ring closure, and elimination of the 2,4-dinitroaniline 21. In order for the formation of the N-(2,4-dinitrophenyl)pyridinium chloride 18 to proceed well, the pyridine must be nucleophilic, but if it is too electron-rich the Zincke reaction with the aniline 19 is impeded, particularly if the latter bears electron-withdrawing groups. Thus, the sequence will work best if R 2 is electron-donating, but R 1 must be neither too electronwithdrawing for the first step nor too electron-donating for the second.
The first target was nitrone 13, which corresponds to the cationic head group alone. 1-Chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene 17 reacted smoothly with pyridine to give pyridinium salt 22. Zincke reaction with the electron-rich aniline 23 in methanol was straightforward, but the resulting benzylic alcohol 24 failed to oxidise to the aldehyde 26 under a variety of conditions. The oxidations were made difficult by the poor solubility of the alcohol in organic solvents other than methanol and DMSO together with the difficulty of separating different pyridinium salts from each other and the high water solubility of the pyridinium salts (adaptations of oxidation procedures to accommodate the solubility of the pyridinium salt 24 included using manganese dioxide, 26 IBX (stabilised), 27 hydrogen peroxide and iron(III) bromide, 28 Swern and Parikh-Doering oxidation 29 ). Conversion into the benzylic chloride 25 with neat thionyl chloride and heating with sodium bicarbonate in DMSO 30 also failed to give the desired product 26 (Scheme 3). Next, introduction of the aldehyde masked as an acetal was attempted (Scheme 4). 3-Nitrobenzaldehyde 27 was converted into acetal 28. Hydrogenation to give aniline 29 was carried out using platinum oxide to avoid the acidity associated with Pd-C. Aniline 29 underwent the Zincke reaction smoothly with the N-(2,4-dinitrophenyl)pyridinium salt 22 to give the pyridinium salt 30 in high yield. Unfortunately, removal of the acetal groups proved less straightforward with the 5,5-dimethyl-1,3-dioxane 30 failing to cleave in 6 M aqueous hydrochloric acid (conditions chosen for ease of isolating the water-soluble pyridinium salt product). Fortunately, at this stage an alternative route had been successful (Scheme 5). 3-Nitrobenzaldehyde 31 was converted into the N-tert-butylnitrone 32. Selective hydrogenation of the nitro group then gave aniline 33, which underwent the Zincke reaction with the N-(2,4-dinitrophenyl)pyridinium salt 22 to give the desired water-soluble nitrone 13. Some reduction of the nitrone was observed if the hydrogenation of the nitro compound was driven to completion and the over-reduced side products were difficult to remove and led to paramagnetic contaminants in the final product 13. Fortunately, the starting nitro compound 32 was easily crystallised from a mixture of nitrones 32 and 33 in ethanol-water when the hydrogenation was stopped after consuming about half the starting material, and this proved to be the best procedure.
• C. Several of the mutants lacked glutathione (GSH)-binding affinity but were purified by S-hexyl-GSH-based affinity chromatography. However the protein yields (70-fold lower), as well as the GST activity (100-fold lower), of Leu-103-Tyr and Leu-103-Arg purifications were surprisingly low and precluded the performance of kinetic experiments. Size-exclusion chromatography showed that both GSTs Leu-103-Tyr and Leu-103-Arg formed dimers. Using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and GSH substrates to determine kinetic constants it was demonstrated that the other Leu-103 mutants possessed a greater K m towards GSH and a differing K m towards CDNB. The V max ranged from 44.7 to 87.0 µmol/min per mg (wild-type, 44.7 µmol/ min per mg). Substrate-specificity studies showed different selectivity properties for each mutant. The structural residue Leu-103 affects the active site through H-bond and van-der-Waal contacts with six active-site residues in the GSH binding site. Changes in this interior core residue appear to disrupt internal packing, which affects active-site residues as well as residues at the subunit-subunit interface. Finally, the data suggest that Leu-103 is noteworthy as a sensitive residue in the GST structure that modulates enzyme activity as well as stability.
Several novel naturally occurring flavonoids and other polyphenols exerted varying degrees of concentration-dependent inhibition on uncharacterized rat liver glutathione S-transferase (EC 2.5.1.18, GST) isoforms. The order of inhibitory potencies of the five most potent polyphenols was tannic acid > 2-hydroxyl chalcone > butein > morin > quercetin, and their IC50 values were 1.044, 6.758, 9.033, 13.710 and 18.732 microM, respectively. Their inhibitions were reversible, as indicated by dialysis experiments. The optimum pH for the inhibitions by four of the compounds (tannic acid, butein, 2-hydroxyl chalcone and morin) was in the range of pH 6.0 to 6.5, but for quercetin the optimum pH was 8.0. These potent inhibitors possess one or more of the following chemical structural features: (a) polyhydroxylation substitutions, (b) absence of a sugar moiety, (c) for the chalcones, the presence of an open C-ring and hydroxylation at either the C-2 or C-3 position, (d) for the flavonoids, the attachment of the B-ring to C-2, and (e) a double bond between C-2 and C-3. Butein exhibited a non-competitive inhibition toward both glutathione (GSH) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). Interestingly, tannic acid showed a non-competitive inhibition toward CDNB but a competitive inhibition toward GSH. The inhibitory potency of tannic acid on rat liver GSTs was concentration and substrate dependent. Using CDNB, p-nitrobenzyl chloride, 4-nitropyridine-N-oxide, and ethacrynic acid as substrates, the IC50 values for tannic acid were 1.044, 11.151, 20.206, and 57.664 microM, respectively.
Some of novel N , N '-bis-(1,2,4-triazin-4-yl)dicarboxylic acid amides ( 2-5 ) and thiadiazolo[2,3- b ][1,2,4]triazin-7-yl carboxylic acid derivatives ( 6 , 7 ) were prepared by heating 4-amino-6-methyl-5-oxo-3-thioxo-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1,2,4-triazine ( 1 ) with different dicarboxylic acids (oxalic, malonic, fumaric, maleic, succinic, and phthalic acids respectively) in POCl 3 . Refluxing 1 with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in DMF yielded 3-methyl-6-nitro-10 H -benzo[1,2,4]thiadiazino[2,3- c ][1,2,4]triazin-4-one ( 8 ). Condensation of 1 with 2,4-pentandione in refluxing acetic acid furnished 6-methyl-4-(1-methyl-3-oxobut-1-enylamino)-3-thioxo-3,4-dihydro-2 H -[1,2,4]triazin-5-one ( 9 ). 3,8-D imethyl[1,2,4] triazino[3,4- b ][1,3,4]thiadiazine-4,7-dione ( 11 ) was prepared by refluxing 1 with 2-bromopropionyl bromide in anhydrous benzene to afford the corresponding N -acetylated derivative 10 , which was cyclized by using triethylamine. Also, some triazinylquinazolinones 13a , b were obtained by fusion of ...
Abstract Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are known to play an important role in the intestinal biotransformation of the epoxide and diol-epoxide metabolites of benzo(a)pyrene formed in catfish intestine (James et al. (1994) The Toxicologist 14, 431). Intestinal mucosal cytosol prepared from the proximal, medial and distal regions had GST activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, ethacrynic acid and benzo(a)pyrene-4,5-oxide as substrates. Intestinal GSTs were isolated from dialyzed cytosol by glutathione-agarose affinity chromatography. More than 90% of the intestinal GST activity bound to the glutathione (GSH)-agarose. Elution with GSH gave one major peak of activity. The isolated GST fraction was purified 50 to 70-fold with respect to cytosol for activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and had high activity with ethacrynic acid and benzo(a)pyrene-4, 5-oxide. SDS-PAGE of the purified GST showed one major band at molecular mass 27 400. Isoelectric focusing showed one major band with pI 7.9, and several minor bands. N-terminal sequence analysis of the purified GST gave 29 amino acids with marked homology (> 63% identical) to mammalian π form GST isozymes and very strong similarity (80%) to a salmon hepatic GST which was shown by immunochemical cross-reactivity to belong to the π class. An antibody to the isolated GST was prepared and used to demonstrate that 1–2% of the protein in cytosol from the proximal intestine of catfish was this π class GST. Catfish hepatic cytosol also cross-reacted strongly with the antibody.
Porous silicon matrixes are attractive materials for the construction of biosensors and may also have utility for the production of immobilized enzyme bioreactors. In an effort to gain a quantitative understanding of the effects of immobilization on enzyme activity, we compared the activity of glutathione-S-transferase immobilized in electrochemically etched porous silicon films (∼6.5 μm thick) with the enzyme in solution. Kinetic measurements were made by varying the glutathione concentration while maintaining a fixed saturating concentration of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. The reaction kinetics follow steady-state equilibrium behavior. The specific activity of the free enzyme in solution is ∼4× higher than the immobilized enzyme, for which we measured an apparent K‘mGSH value of 1.0 ± 0.3. The maximum velocity, V‘max, is linearly proportional to immobilized enzyme concentration, but the magnitude is ∼20 times lower than that in solution. Results suggest ∼25% of the enzyme is bound with the catalytic sit...
The anionic homodimeric theta glutathione S-transferase (EC 2.5.1.18), with specific activities of 4.6 units/mg with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate, from the eyes of the shrimp Penaeus japonicus, binds to corticosterone, which was confirmed by the analysis of the conjugate by SDS-PAGE and fluorography of proteins with bound 3H-corticosterone. The reaction of the theta glutathione S-transferase with corticosterone was prevented by the presence of glutathione at 10 mM.
GST (glutathione transferase) is a dimeric enzyme recognized for biotransformation of xenobiotics and endogenous toxic compounds. In the present study, residues forming the hydrophobic substrate-binding site (H-site) of a Delta class enzyme were investigated in detail for the first time by site-directed mutagenesis and crystallographic studies. Enzyme kinetics reveal that Tyr111 indirectly stabilizes GSH binding, Tyr119 modulates hydrophobic substrate binding and Phe123 indirectly modulates catalysis. Mutations at Tyr111 and Phe123 also showed evidence for positive co-operativity for GSH and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene respectively, strongly suggesting a role for these residues in manipulating subunit-subunit communication. In the present paper we report crystal structures of the wild-type enzyme, and two mutants, in complex with S-hexylglutathione. This study has identified an aromatic 'zipper' in the H-site contributing a network of aromatic pi-pi interactions. Several residues of the cluster directly interact with the hydrophobic substrate, whereas others indirectly maintain conformational stability of the dimeric structure through the C-terminal domain (domain II). The Y119E mutant structure shows major main-chain rearrangement of domain II. This reorganization is moderated through the 'zipper' that contributes to the H-site remodelling, thus illustrating a role in co-substrate binding modulation. The F123A structure shows molecular rearrangement of the H-site in one subunit, but not the other, explaining weakened hydrophobic substrate binding and kinetic co-operativity effects of Phe123 mutations. The three crystal structures provide comprehensive evidence of the aromatic 'zipper' residues having an impact upon protein stability, catalysis and specificity. Consequently, 'zipper' residues appear to modulate and co-ordinate substrate processing through permissive flexing.
We determined the electrophilic substrate-binding site of rat glutathione S-transferase P (GST-P) by photoaffinity labeling using the photosensitive compound S-[2-(2-fluoro-4-nitrophenoxy)ethyl]glutathione. This photosensitive glutathione analogue inhibited the catalytic activity in a competitive manner against both glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, a putative electrophilic substrate. The enzyme kinetics indicated that the photoactivatable glutathione analogue was specifically bound at the active site, which consisted of glutathione-binding (G-site) and the electrophilic substrate-binding (H-site) regions. The procedure involved the following steps: S-[2-(2-fluoro-4-nitrophenoxy)ethyl]glutathione was photochemically reacted with a purified recombinant GST-P expressed in Escherichia coli using ultraviolet irradiation for 30 min on ice. After the reaction, only the GST-P complexed with the glutathione analogue was prepared with glutathione-immobilized agarose. The GST-P covalently bound with the analogue was digested with lysyl endopeptidase (Achromobacter protease I), and the peptides were separated by high-performance liquid chromatography. Only a single major peak with appreciable absorbance at 340 nm was observed by peptide mapping. The peptide was collected and analyzed using an automated peptide sequencer (ABI 477A). Amino acid sequence analysis showed that this peptide consisted of seven amino acid residues corresponding to the sequence at positions 122–128 of GST-P (Ala-Leu-Pro-Gly-Xaa-Leu-Lys). No appreciable phenylthiohydantoin-amino acid was detected at the fifth cycle, which indicated that His126 was chemically labeled with the photosensitive glutathione analogue. It was concluded that His126 was one of the amino acid residues forming the electrophilic substrate-binding site of GST-P.
Estrogen plays important roles in the function, growth and differentiation of mammary glands, the uterus, and ovaries. It also affects other tissues, including bone, liver, the cardiovascular system, and brain. Estrogen acts primarily through the estrogen receptor (ER), which is a member of the nuclear hormone receptor superfamily and a ligand-dependent transcription factor. ER reacts specifically with estrogen, and is transported as a dimer into the site of the estrogen response element (ERE) in the nucleus. The estrogen-ER complex recruits coactivators and general transcription factors, and then regulates the expression of target genes. However, certain chemicals, so-called endocrine disruptors (EDs), affect the endocrine system containing estrogen. EDs are defined as xenobiotics that interfere with the function of natural hormones in terms of production, release, transport, metabolism, receptor binding, or excretion in the body, resulting in disturbing the maintenance of homeostasis and the regulation of developmental processes. It is important and urgent task in the risk assessment of ED to screen and list the positive chemicals from a huge number of chemicals using in vivo and in vitro tests and many have been reported. For instance, bisphenol A and nonylphenol mimic estrogens via binding to ER. However, most of these tests have been performed on single pure chemicals; nevertheless, the exposure occurs actually as mixtures of chemicals and not a single chemical. At least, the chemicals should express an effect in the presence of natural hormones such as 17β-estradiol (E2). Therefore, we studied the effect of chemicals on the estrogenic activity in the coexistence of E2, expecting to find new chemicals with inhibitory or stimulative activity for E2. In our previous paper, the yeast two-hybrid assay revealed inhibitory chemicals including hexachlorophene, pentachlorophenol, and vitamin K3 (menadione; K3). In this paper, we examined the estrogenic activity in the presence of E2 on chemicals negative in the yeast two-hybrid assay using an MCF-7 reporter gene assay, and found that 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) showed an enhancing effect by activation of mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK), not ER. 1-Chloro-2,4-Dinitrobenzene Stimulates the Estrogenic Activity in MCF-7 Cells
In the previous study (Mutation Res., this issue), we showed that increased levels of dietary casein as the sole protein source for male F344 rats decreased the ability of the uninduced liver S9s to activate 2-aminoanthracene (2AN) to a mutagen in strain TA98 using the spiral Salmonella mutagenicity assay. No effects of dietary casein levels were noted for the ability of uninduced liver S9s to activate the promutagens aflatoxin B1 (AFB) and benzo[a]pyrene (BAP). In the present study, we have extended this study to include liver S9s induced with either Aroclor 1254, phenobarbital or 3-methylcholanthrene (3MC). S9s were derived from individual male F344 rats fed for 6 weeks on semisynthetic diets containing 8%, 12% or 22% methionine-supplemented casein as the sole source of protein (diets were made isocaloric by adjusting the corn starch content). Rats were housed in large, raised-bed cages by groups of three/diet/inducing agent. S9 activation mixtures were prepared at 5 mg of S9 protein/ml of S9 mix. Slopes from the linear portions of the mutagenicity dose-response curves were analyzed by ANOVA comparisons. Assays used to elucidate the phase I activities of microsomal preparations were cytochrome P-450 content, cytochrome-c reductase activity, flavin-containing monooxygenase activity, 7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylation (EROD) activity, N-demethylation of benzphetamine, and para-nitrophenol O-deethylation. Phase II activities were assayed by estimating glutathione (GSH) content and measuring the metabolism of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) by glutathione S-transferase in cytosolic preparations. None of the phase I or phase II endpoints were significantly affected by dietary casein levels. In general, increasing levels of dietary casein resulted in increased body and liver wet weight and amount of S9 protein. Aroclor-induced S9s from rats fed the 22% or 12% casein diet were most effective at activating AFB, depending on the lot of Aroclor used for induction; these divergent results were replicated with two groups of rats for each lot of Aroclor. The observed differences between Aroclor lots are assumed to arise from variation in the mix of PCB isomers. The Aroclor-induced S9s did not exhibit any casein-related effects for the activation of BAP or 2AN. For 3MC-induced S9s, the 12% casein diets produced S9s with the highest ability to activate AFB and BAP when standardized for protein content. Phenobarbital-induced S9s did not demonstrate any dietary casein-related effects on the activation of the three model promutagens. These results illustrate the complex interaction between dietary levels of casein, enzyme inducing agent and promutagen.
Abstract Limited proteolysis method has been used to study the structure—function relationship of bacterial glutathione transferase (GSTB1-1). In absence of three-dimensional structural data of prokaryote GST, the results represent the first information concerning the G-site and domains organization of GSTB1-1. The tryptic cleavages occur mainly at the peptide bonds Lys35-Lys36 and Phe43-Leu44, generating two major molecular species of 20-kDa, 3-kDa and traces of 10-kDa. 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene favoured the proteolysis of the 20-kDa fragment markedly enhancing the production of the 10-kDa peptide by cleaving the chemical bonds Lys87-Ala88 and Arg91-Tyr92. The tryptic cleavage sites of GSTB1-1 was found to be located close to those previously found for the mammalian GSTP1-1 isozyme. It was concluded that despite their low sequence homology (18%), GSTB1-1 and GSTP1-1 displayed similar structural features in their G-site regions and probably a common organization in structural domains.
The effects of smoke from cigarettes with two different tar contents (32 mg/cigarette, high tar, and 15 mg/cigarette, low tar) on hepatic and pulmonary monooxygenase (MO) activities (aniline 4-hydroxylase [AH]; aminopyrine N-demethylase [AMND]; 7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase [EROD]; p-nitroanisole O-demethylase [p-NAOD]), lipid peroxidation (LP) and reduced glutathione (GSH) levels and glutathione S-transferase (GST) activities toward several substrates (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene [CDNBI; 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene [DCNB]; ethacrynic acid [EAA]; 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)-propane [ENPP]) were determined in adult male rats. Adult male rats were exposed to smoke of high- or low-tar cigarettes five times a day, with 1-hour intervals, for 3 days in a chamber where smoke and fresh air lead alternatively and were killed 16 hours after the last treatment. Smoke of both high- and low-tar cigarettes (SHTCC and SLTCC) significantly increased hepatic and pulmonary EROD and p-NAOD activities compared to controls. However, the increase noted by SHTCC on pulmonary EROD activity was higher than that of SLTCC. Hepatic AMND and pulmonary AH activities were significantly increased only by SHTCC. LP level was significantly decreased and increased by SHTCC in liver and lung, respectively, whereas it remained unaltered by SLTCC. Only SHTCC significantly increased GSH level in liver. In the lungs, both SHTCC and SLTCC significantly increased GSH level to the same extent. Hepatic GST activity toward EAA was significantly increased by SHTCC but was significantly decreased by SLTCC. ENPP GST activity was significantly decreased by SHTCC and SLTCC in the livers. In the lungs, all the GST activities examined were significantly depressed by SHTCC whereas only GST activity toward DCNB was reduced significantly by SLTCC. These results reveal that the hepatic and pulmonary MOs and GSTs are differentially influenced by SHTCC and SLTCC in rats.
GlutathioneS-transferase activity of both the microsomal and soluble fractions was determined in a variety of aquatic macrophytes. The examined enzyme extract was prepared from a combination of leaves and shoots. Four different model substrates were used. The highest conjugation rate was obtained for 1-iodo-2,4-dinitrobenzene, followed by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene,p-nitrobenzoyl chloride, and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene. Comparison of several samples ofNuphar luteaL. from two different lake areas revealed increased glutathioneS-transferase activity in plants from the site contaminated with polyaromatic hydrocarbons.
The possible role of the hydroxyl group of Tyr 108 in the catalytic mechanism of human glutathione transferase P1-1 has been investigated by means of site-directed mutagenesis, steady-state kinetic analysis, and crystallographic studies. Three representative cosubstrates have been used, i.e. ethacrynic acid, 7-chloro-4-nitrobenz-2-oxa-1,3-diazole, and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. In the presence of ethacrynic acid, the enzyme follows a rapid equilibrium random bi-bi mechanism with a rate-limiting step which occurs after the addition of the substrates and before the release of products. The replacement of Tyr 108 with Phe yields a 14-fold decrease of k(cat), while it does not change appreciably the affinity of the H site for the substrate. In this case, it would appear that the role of the hydroxyl function is to stabilize the transition state for the chemical step, i.e. the Michael addition of GSH to the electrophilic substrate. Crystallographic data are compatible with this conclusion showing the hydroxyl group of Y108 in hydrogen bonding distance of the ketone moiety of ethacrynic acid [Oakley, A. J., Rossjohn, J., Lo Bello, M., Caccuri, A. M., Federici, G., & Parker, M. W. (1997) Biochemistry 36, 576-585]. Moreover, no structural differences are observed between the Y108F mutant and the wild type, suggesting that the removal of the hydroxyl group is solely responsible for the loss of activity. A different involvement of Tyr 108 appears in the catalyzed conjugation of 7-chloro-4-nitrobenz-2-oxa-1,3-diazole with GSH in which the rate-limiting step is of a physical nature, probably a structural transition of the ternary complex. The substitution of Tyr 108 yields an approximately 7-fold increase of k(cat) and a constant k(cat)/Km(NBD-Cl) value. Lack of a critical hydrogen bond between 7-chloro-4-nitrobenz-2-oxa-1,3-diazole and Tyr 108 appears to be the basis of the increased k(cat). In the 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene/GSH system, no appreciable changes of kinetics parameters are found in the Y108F mutant. We conclude that Y108 has a multifunctional role in glutathione transferase P1-1 catalysis, depending on the nature of the electrophilic cosubstrate.
The estrogenic effect of chemicals, including 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), in the combination with 17β-estradiol (E 2 ) was screened by a reporter gene assay using breast cancer cells (MCF-7). It was found that CDNB stimulated E 2 -induced transcriptional activity of estrogen receptor (ER) and down-regulated both ER protein and mRNA. However, CDNB alone and CDNB metabolite(s) showed no estrogenic activity and no binding activity to ER, suggesting an indirect pathway other than ER. CDNB gave no transcriptional activity for an aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR), suggesting no possibility of a pathway through cross-talk between AhR and ER. On the other hand, CDNB enhanced the mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway, suggesting estrogenic action via MAPK. These results indicated that CDNB possessed estrogen-like activity in the transcription and regulation of ER though a different pathway from E 2 .
Following conjugation with glutathione, xenobiotics are converted into cysteinylglycine conjugates, cysteine conjugates, and finally, mercapturic acids. The structural factors determining the activities of dipeptidases for the metabolism of toxicologically-relevant cysteinylglycine conjugates are not well understood.We purified porcine kidney cortex membrane dipeptidase (MDP) to homogeneity, via phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C-mediated cleavage of the protein’s membrane anchor and cilastatin affinity chromatography. The homodimeric structure of the MDP protein was confirmed by mass spectrometry.The cysteinylglycine conjugates of 1-(chloromethyl)naphthalene, 4-nitrobenzyl chloride, and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene were synthesized and HPLC separation methods for their quantitation were developed. MDP catalyzed the hydrolysis of all three conjugates, but the rate of this activity was strongly dependent on the nature of the substituent on the cysteine sulfur atom.
1. ::: 1. The glutathione content of midgut gland and green glands of Procambarus clarkii (P.c.) (17–19 nmol/mg protein), together with the glutathione S-transferase (GST) (EC 2.5.1.18) and γ-glutamyl transpeptidase (γ-GT) (EC 2.3.2.2.) activities (200–800 and 20–60 nmol/min/mg protein−1, with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and l-γ-glutamyl-p-nitroanilide as substrates, respectively) found in these organs, are consistent with the presence of a mercapturic acid pathway in P. clarkii. ::: ::: 2. ::: 2. Fasting decreases γ-GT activity in green glands and in muscle of small and big animals, respectively, both in females and males, whereas the rest of organs show no significant differences in any of the parameters studied due to size, sex, or nutritional state. ::: ::: 3. ::: 3. The physiological functions of the different organs studied are also discussed.
Equine liver glutathione S-transferase has been shown to consist of two identical subunits of apparent Mr 25,500 and a pl of 8.9. Kinetic data at pH 6.5 with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as a substrate suggests a random rapid-equilibrium mechanism, which is supported by inhibition studies using glutathione analogues. S-(p-Bromobenzyl)glutathione and the corresponding N alpha-, CGlu- and CGly-substituted derivatives have been found, at pH 6.5, to be linear competitive inhibitors, with respect to GSH, of glutathione transferase. N-Acetylation of S-(p-bromobenzyl)glutathione decreases binding by 100-fold, whereas N-benzoylation and N-benzyloxycarbonylation abolish binding of the derivative to the enzyme. The latter effect has been attributed to a steric constraint in this region of the enzyme. Amidation of the glycine carboxy group of S-(p-bromobenzyl)glutathione decreases binding by 13-fold, whereas methylation decreases binding by 70-fold, indicating a steric constraint and a possible electrostatic interaction in this region of the enzyme. Amidation of both carboxy groups decreases binding significantly by 802-fold, which agrees with electrostatic interaction of the glutamic acid carboxy group with a group located on the enzyme.
The kinetics of chlorine-isotopic exchange between di- or tri-nitro-derivatives of m- or p-dichlorobenzene with Li36Cl have been measured. Second-order rate constants for 1,3-dichloro-4,6-dinitrobenzene increase in the sequence of solvents: isopropyl alcohol acetylacetone < sulpholan < dimethyl sulphoxide < 97:3 (v/v) diethyl ketone–n-butanol < acetone < hexamethylphosphoramide < diethyl ketone. No exchange was observed for dioxan or glacial acetic acid solutions. Water exerts a strong retarding effect on the rate of exchange of this substrate in acetone solution. Rate-constants relative to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene = 1·00, at 298 K in anhydrous acetone solution were: 1,3-dichloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene 0·019, 1,4-dichloro-2,6-dinitrobenzene 0·61, 1,3-dichloro-4,6-dinitrobenzene 26, and 1,3-dichloro-2,4,6-trinitrobenzene 32,000. With 1,3-dichloro-2,4-dinitro- and 1,4-dichloro-2,6-dinitro-benzene only the 1-chloro-groups undergo exchange, under the conditions used.
Previous studies suggested that dietary composition affected glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity in catfish intestine, and this activity varied along the intestine. In this study, catfish were fed a semi-purified diet or a commercial chow for at least 2 weeks. GST activity, percent protein cross-reacting with anti-catfish GST pi antibody, and immuno-cross-reactivity with antibodies specific for human alpha, mu, pi and theta class GSTs were determined in cytosol prepared from sections of proximal, medial, and distal intestine. The bulk of GST activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and ethacrynic acid, and the percent protein cross-reacting with anti-catfish GST pi were in the more proximal segments and dropped off distally in the two diet groups. The percent of cross-reacting GST protein in the proximal section of fish fed on commercial chow was significantly higher (4.3 +/- 1.7%) than in fish fed purified diet (2.3 +/- 0.2%). Further Western blot analysis revealed a differential expression of GST isoforms only in the distal segment of fish fed commercial chow that recognized human anti-alpha GST antibody. Distal intestinal segments of catfish exposed to 3,3',4,4'-tetrachlorobiphenyl (TCB) and beta-naphthoflavone (BNF) also revealed expression of distinct alpha-like GST isoforms. Results strongly suggest the distal segment as a site for potential biomarkers for polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH)- and co-planar polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB)-type contaminants.
A human colon cancer cell line with acquired multidrug resistance (MDR) was assayed for the intracellular GSH level and the activity of GSH-S-transferase (GST), which catalyzes the conjugation reaction of electrophilic drugs with GSH. The GSH level and GST activity (as measured with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene) were elevated in the resistant cells by 1.7-fold and 2-fold, respectively. This elevated catalytic activity of the resistant cells was reflected in a 2-fold increase in GST-pi mRNA, which was not the result of gene amplification. In addition, buthionine sulfoximine, a specific inhibitor of GSH synthesis, significantly increased Adriamycin sensitivity in both the MDR and the parental cells, affecting the former more than the latter. The effects seen with buthionine sulfoximine were not seen with puromycin and actinomycin D. A dramatic overexpression of mdr1, a P-glycoprotein gene responsible for the MDR phenotype, was also observed in the MDR cells. In contrast, none of these products (i.e., mdr P-glycoprotein, GSH level, total GST activity, GST-pi gene copy, and GST-pi mRNA level) was elevated in HeLa cells resistant to cisplatin and some alkylating agents, supporting the notion that the acquisition of cisplatin resistance differs from the mechanism of MDR. These results indicate that the intrinsic GSH level and GST-pi activity affect anthracycline resistance per se and not MDR in the human colon cancer cells.
Two auxin-inducible glutathione S-transferase (GST, EC 2.5.1.18) isozymes from tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum, White Burley) were partially characterized. GST1-1 and GST2-1 are members of a recently identified new type of plant GST isozymes that we will here refer to as type ll. Both enzymes were active, with 1-chloro-2,4dinitrobenzene as a substrate, when expressed in bacteria as fusion proteins. The apparent K,m, for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was found to be 0.85 ? 0.25 mm for GST1-1 and 0.20 ? 0.15 mM for GST2-1. The apparent K,. for glutathione was similar for both enzymes, 0.40 ? 0.15 mm. The in vitro activity of both enzymes could be inhibited by the synthetic auxin 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, with an apparent Ki of 80 ? 40 iLM for GST1-1 and 200 + 100 FLM for GST2-1. The GSTt-1 was also inhibited by structurally related substances, such as 2,4-dichlorobenzoic acid, with a roughly similar K,. The nonchlorinated structures benzoic acid and phenoxyacetic acid did not inhibit. p-Chloroisobutyric acid, or clofibric acid, an auxin-transport inhibitor, was found to be an active inhibitor as well. The strongest inhibitor identified, however, was a phenylacetic acid derivative, ethacrynic acid, which showed an apparent Ki of 5 ? 5 F.M for both enzymes. This substance is a known inducer as well as a substrate of specific mammalian GSTs. The results presented here indicate that the type II plant GSTs might be involved in the metabolism or transport of chlorinated substances that are structurally related to auxins. The possibility that auxins are endogenous ligands or substrates for GSTs is discussed.
Glutathione S-transferases (GST) catalyzing the conjugation of reduced glutathione to a vast range of xenobiotics including insecticides were characterized in the whitefly Bemisia tabaci. GST activities were determined in susceptible and resistant strains of B. tabaci towards artificial substrates, i.e. 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) in a photometric microplate assay and monochlorobimane (MCB) in a fluoroemtric microplate assay and characterized by their Michaelis-Menten kinetics. The inhibitory potential of ethacrynic acid was very effective with IC50-values between 0.9 and 5.8 microM depending on substrate and strain. The inhibitory effect of dicumarol was 10 times lower. Glutathione-affinity chromatography purified GST enzymes of two different B. tabaci strains appeared as a single band on SDS-PAGE and had a molecular mass of 23.5 kDa determined by MALDI mass spectrometry. The N-terminus of the purified enzyme was sequenced by Edman degradation. The nearly full-length cDNA of the enzyme was isolated by RT-PCR using a degenerate primer derived from the N-terminal amino acid sequence and contained an open reading frame encoding a 194-amino-acid protein. Comparison of the deduced amino acid sequence with GSTs from other species revealed that the enzyme is closely related to insect class sigma GSTs.
The glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are a multigene family of enzymes largely involved in the detoxification of chemicals. In animals, enhanced expression is mediated by products of gut fermentation. Of these, butyrate induces GSTP1 protein expression and GST activity in the human colon tumor cell line HT29. The aim of the following investigations was to further elucidate butyrate-modulated induction of additional colonic GSTs in HT29 and to determine baseline expression in non-transformed cells, isolated from human colorectal tissue. We measured five GST protein subunits (GSTA1/2-composed of GST A1-1, A1-2 and A2-2-GSTM1, GSTM2, GSTP1, GSTT1) by western blot, GST activity using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate and GSTM2 mRNA expression with RT-PCR. GSTP1, followed by GSTT1, were major subunits in all colon cells. Cells isolated from colon tissue were identified to be colonocytes and colon fibroblasts, both of which also expressed substantial levels of GSTM1 and GSTM2. The inter-individual variation of GST subunits in coloncytes of 15 individuals was marked, with total GST protein per 106 cells differing by more than a factor of four. In HT29, butyrate significantly enhanced GSTA1/2 (3.5-fold), GSTM2 (not detectable in controls), GSTP1 (1.5-fold) and GST activity (1.4-fold), but not GSTM1 or GSTT1. GSTM2 mRNA expression was significantly induced after 24 ( approximately 14-fold) and 72 h treatment ( approximately 8-fold). In colon fibroblasts, butyrate (4 mM, 72 h) also induced GSTM2 protein (1.7-fold) and GST activity (1.4-fold). Colonocytes were too short lived to be used for inducibility studies. In conclusion, GSTs are expressed with high inter-individual variability in human colonocytes. This points to large differences in cellular susceptibility to xenobiotics. However, butyrate, an important luminal component produced from fermentation of dietary fibers, is an efficient inducer of GSTs and especially of GSTM2. This indicates that butyrate may act chemoprotectively by increasing detoxification capabilities in the colon mucosa.
5-Fluorouracil (5-FU) is a widely used antineoplastic agent. 5-FU therapy often causes gastrointestinal toxicity, which is suppressed by concomitant administration of potassium oxonate (Oxo). Here, we investigated the effect of 5-FU on the small-intestinal drug-metabolizing enzymes, which play important roles in the first-pass metabolism of drugs, in rats, by enzyme measurements and immunoblot analyses. During repeated administration of a combination of 1-(2-tetrahydrofuryl)-5-fluorouracil, an oral 5-FU-derivative drug, and 5-chloro-2,4-dihydroxypyridine (FCD), an inhibitor of 5-FU degradation, the activities of 7-ethoxyresorufin- O -deethylase, testosterone 6β-hydroxylase, 4-methylumbelliferone UDP-glucuronyltransferase, and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene glutathione S -transferase decreased significantly on day 4, and the activity of NADPH-cytochrome P450 (CYP) reductase decreased significantly on day 7. These effects were found to be attributable to a reduction in the enzyme protein contents in the small-intestinal mucosa. The enzymatic alterations significantly increased the plasma concentrations of orally administered nifedipine, which was prevented by concomitant administration of Oxo with FCD. However, consecutive administration of FCD for 4 days did not cause any alterations in the activity of the hepatic CYP isozyme-supported testosterone hydroxylase. These results suggest that continuous exposure to 5-FU leads to a decrease in the activities of drug-metabolizing enzymes in the intestinal mucosa by decreasing their enzyme protein contents, and increases the plasma concentrations of orally administered nifedipine, and that the sensitivity of these enzymes to the drug is greater than that of the enzymes of the liver. These effects were prevented by concomitant administration of Oxo.
The isoenzyme glutathione S-transferase (GST) I from maize (Zea mays) was cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli, and its catalytic mechanism was investigated by site-directed mutagenesis and dynamic studies. The results showed that the enzyme promotes proton dissociation from the GSH thiol and creates a thiolate anion with high nucleophilic reactivity by lowering the pK(a) of the thiol from 8.7 to 6.2. Steady-state kinetics fit well to a rapid equilibrium, random sequential Bi Bi mechanism, with intrasubunit modulation between the GSH binding site (G-site) and the electrophile binding site (H-site). The rate-limiting step of the reaction is viscosity-dependent, and thermodynamic data suggest that product release is rate-limiting. Five residues of GST I (Ser(11), His(40), Lys(41), Gln(53) and Ser(67)), which are located in the G-site, were individually replaced with alanine and their structural and functional roles in the 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) conjugation reaction were investigated. On the basis of steady-state kinetics, difference spectroscopy and limited proteolysis studies it is concluded that these residues: (1) contribute to the affinity of the G-site for GSH, as they are involved in side-chain interaction with GSH; (2) influence GSH thiol ionization, and thus its reactivity; (3) participate in k(cat) regulation by affecting the rate-limiting step of the reaction; and (4) in the cases of His(40), Lys(41) and Gln(53) play an important role in the structural integrity of, and probably in the flexibility of, the highly mobile short 3(10)-helical segment of alpha-helix 2 (residues 35-46), as shown by limited proteolysis experiments. These structural perturbations are probably transmitted to the H-site through changes in Phe(35) conformation. This accounts for the modulation of K(CDNB)(m) by His(40), Lys(41) and Gln(53), and also for the intrasubunit communication between the G- and H-sites. Computer simulations using CONCOORD were applied to maize GST I monomer and dimer structures, each with bound lactoylglutathione, and the results were analysed by the essential dynamics technique. Differences in dynamics were found between the monomer and the dimer simulations showing the importance of using the whole structure in dynamic analysis. The results obtained confirm that the short 3(10)-helical segment of alpha-helix 2 (residues 35-46) undergoes the most significant structural rearrangements. These rearrangements are discussed in terms of enzyme catalytic mechanism.
Meisenheimer complex formation between 1,3,5-trinitrobenzene (TNB) and the primary amines aniline and 2,2,2-trifluoroethylamine (TFE) has been studied in dimethyl sulphoxide and acetonitrile. The reaction with aniline is catalysed in both solvents by 1,4-diazabicyclo[2.2.2]octane (DABCO). With TFE, catalysis by both TFE and DABCO was observed in acetonitrile, but not in dimethyl sulphoxide. The reactions of TFE with 1-fluoro- and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzenes are not base catalysed in dimethyl sulphoxide or acetonitrile.
Equine liver glutathione S-transferase has been shown to consist of two identical subunits of apparent Mr 25 500 and a pl of 8.9. Kinetic data at pH 6.5 with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as a substrate suggests a random rapid-equilibrium mechanism, which is supported by inhibition studies using glutathione analogues. S-(p-Bromobenzyl)glutathione and the corresponding N.-, CG1U-and CGly-substituted derivatives have been found, at pH 6.5, to be linear competitive inhibitors, with respect to GSH, of glutathione transferase. N-Acetylation of S-(p-bromobenzyl)glutathione decreases binding by 100-fold, whereas N-benzoylation and N-benzyloxycarbonylation abolish binding of the derivative to the enzyme. The latter effect has been attributed to a steric constraint in this region of the enzyme. Amidation of the glycine carboxy group of S-(p-bromobenzyl)glutathione decreases binding by 13-fold, whereas methylation decreases binding by 70-fold, indicating a steric constraint and a possible electrostatic interaction in this region of the enzyme. Amidation of both carboxy groups decreases binding significantly by 802-fold, which agrees with electrostatic interaction of the glutamic acid carboxy group with a group located on the enzyme.
Enzymatic and ligand binding assays. GST enzymatic activity in 100 mM potassium phosphate buffer (pH 6.5) containing reduced GSH at a concentration of 1 mM and the model GST substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) at a concentration of 1 mM (11) was measured spectrophotometrically at 340 nm (25°C). Assays with natural and other model substrates were completed as previously described (11). Both CDNB and GSH were utilized as competing substrates for a Dixon plot analysis as outlined by Cortes et al. (12). Protein concentrations were determined by the Bradford method (Bio-Rad, commercial kit). Ligand binding to rHcGST-1 was estimated by measuring changes in intrinsic or competitive protein fluorescence. In all ligand binding assays, a final
Dose-response relationships in contact sensitivity were evaluated in guinea pigs using an in vitro assay. Guinea pigs were sensitized with different doses of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB) and challenged with DNCB and 2,4-dinitrobenzene sulfonic salt (DNBS). Lymph node cells from sensitized and control guinea pigs were cultured in the presence of different doses of DNCB and DNBS at 8 × 105 cells/well, respectively. The sensitivity was evaluated by the lymphocyte transformation test (LTT). which was assessed by uptake of 3H-thymidine. The results indicated that there were Significant correlations between the doses of sensitizers and the values of LTT in both phases of induction and challenge. Thus, the presence of higher numbers of LTT-reactive lymphocytes in the circulation may well correlate with the sensitizing doses. The values examined by in vitro assay correlated well with patch test readings (r= 0.653l), indicating that following the increment of degree of patch test reactions, the values of SI were also increased. The in vitro LTT may discriminate between positive patch test reactions and negative or doubtful reactions, but not between weak positive and strong positive reactions. The in vitro assay reproduced the cross-reaction between DNCB and DNBS which was confirmed in vivo.
Activated sludge treatment systems rely on a microbial consortium structurally organized in bioflocs to treat pollutants present in wastewater. The treatment process efficiency in these systems can be severely affected by toxic chemicals present in the influent wastewater. The effects of chemical toxins at the treatment process level are determined by the mechanisms that occur at the biofloc and cellular levels, which can be physical, chemical and physiological in nature. We believe that the overall process effects of chemical toxins on activated sludge systems likely result from a combination of all three types of mechanisms and that they are interdependent, in the sense that specific bacterial stress response mechanisms (physiological mechanisms that protect the cell from toxic conditions) may lead to physical/chemical alterations at the floc level, and vice-versa. Ultimately, understanding the mechanisms that occur at the floc and metabolic scales will help to design more robust and efficient treatment systems, and to develop tools to prevent and mitigate the effects of toxic chemicals on activated sludge systems. In this research, we set out to establish the link between the effects of chemical toxins on activated sludge cultures at the process, floc and metabolic scales. First, the effects of shock loads of different toxic sources (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), cadmium, 1-octanol, 2,4-dinitrophenol (DNP), weakly complexed cyanide, pH 5, 9 and 11, and high ammonia levels) on activated sludge process parameters (biomass growth, respiration rate, flocculation, chemical oxygen demand (COD) removal, dewaterability and settleability) were studied. For all chemical shocks except ammonia and pH, concentrations that caused 15, 25 and 50% respiration inhibition were used to provide a single pulse chemical shock to sequencing batch reactor (SBR) systems containing a nitrifying (10 day solids retention time – SRT) and a non-nitrifying (2 day SRT) biomass. We found that cadmium and pH 11 shocks were the conditions that most detrimentally affected all the processes, followed by CDNB. DNP and cyanide primarily led to effects on respiration, while pH 5, 9, octanol and various ammonia concentrations did not impact the treatment process to a significant extent. Additionally, there was a clear correlation between biomass deflocculation and increases in the effluent soluble COD of the shocked reactors for different chemical sources. With this study, we were able to establish a source-effect matrix linking classes of chemical toxins to their potential inhibitory effects on activated sludge processes, thereby contributing to a better understanding of the potential effects of toxic industrial discharges into biological treatment systems. The findings of the first phase of the research, specifically the correlation between chemicalinduced deflocculation and increases in soluble COD, served as a motivation to explore the role of floc structure in the response of activated sludge cultures to toxic compounds, and to conduct a more in-depth analysis of the supernatant (soluble phase) of toxin-exposed activated sludge. In one study, we evaluated the respiration inhibition induced by octanol, cadmium, Nethylmaleimide (NEM), cyanide and DNP on activated sludge biomasses with different floc structures but similar physiological characteristics, with the objective of assessing the role of the
The fruit of trifoliate orange (Poncirus trifoliate) is widely used for treating allergies including allergenic dermatitis and inflammation in oriental medicine. Increased blood IgE concentration and histamine level following dermatitis, coughing and asthma are the most important clinical symptoms of allergic diseases. Decreases in the elevated serum IgE concentrations are essential in the treatment of allergy because increased IgE blood levels are initiated in allergenic immune disorders. This study was conducted to investigate the activities of an extract of trifoliate orange fruit using 100% methanol followed by extraction with boiling water on the regulation of blood IgE concentration in the U266B1 human myeloma cell line and a 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB) sensitized mouse model. The results revealed that the extracts of trifoliate orange suppressed IgE production in U266B1 cells in a dose dependent manner with or without lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulation of the cells. In addition, chemically elevated blood IgE concentrations were dramatically decreased by oral administration, ventral injection, and topical application of the trifoliate orange extracts (TOE). The results indicated that the fraction of TOE should contain an important compound of the fruit of trifoliate orange, and TOE had the ability to reduce IgE concentrations in cultured cells and a chemically sensitized in vivo mouse model.
The mutagenicity of the commonly used glutathione S-transferase substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB) was investigated in the Salmonella mutagenicity assay. CDNB induced a concentration-dependent mutagenic response in Salmonella typhimurium strain TA98. Incorporation of an activation system derived from Aroclor 1254-induced rats did not influence mutagenic response. Under the same conditions DCNB failed to display mutagenic activity. The mutagenic activity of CDNB was attenuated in bacterial strains under-expressing nitroreductase or O-acetylase activity but, in contrast, it was exaggerated in an O-acetylase over-expressing strain. It is inferred that CDNB exhibits a mutagenic response following reduction of the nitro-group to the hydroxylamine, which is further acetylated to form the acetoxy derivative that presumably breaks down spontaneously to generate the nitrenium ion, the likely ultimate mutagen.
The effect of tetrachloroethylene on Phase I and II drug-metabolizing enzymes in rat liver was examined. Rats were treated orally with tetrachloroethylene daily for five days, at doses of 125, 250, 500, 1,000 and 2,000 mg/kg. The higher doses (>500 mg/kg) of tetrachloroethylene induced the hepatic microsomal 7-pentoxyresorufin O-depentylase and 7-benzyloxyresorufin O-debenzylase activities associated with the CYP2B subfamily. 7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase activity was also induced about 2-fold compared with that of control rats at 500, 1,000, and 2,000 mg/kg dose levels of tetrachloroethylene. However, 7-ethoxycoumarin O-deethylase and 7-methoxyresorufin O-demethylase activities were increased significantly at only the 1,000 mg/kg dose level of tetrachloroethylene (1.4- and 1.5-fold). Although other cytochrome P450-mediated monooxygenase activities such as nitrosodimethylamine N-demethylase, aminopyrine N-demethylase and erythromycin N-demethylase were also induced by tetrachloroethylene, the relative induction to control activity was lower than those of 7-pentoxyresorufin O-depentylase and 7-benzyloxyresorufin O-debenzylase. Western immunoblotting showed that the levels of CYP2B1 and CYP2B2 proteins in liver microsomes were increased at doses of 1,000 and 2,000 mg/kg of tetrachloroethylene. In addition to cytochrome P450-mediated monooxygenases, there was significant induction of the Phase II drug-metabolizing enzymes, DT-diaphorase, glutathione S-transferase activities towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, and UDP-glucuronyltransferase activities towards 4-nitrophenol and 7-hydroxycoumarin. The results indicate that tetrachloroethylene induces both Phase I (CYP2B-mediated monooxygenase) and Phase II drug-metabolizing enzymes (DT-diaphorase, glutathione S-transferase and UDP-glucuronyltransferase) in the rat liver.
The GSH-binding site of glutathione S-transferase (GST) isoenzymes was studied by investigating their substrate-specificity for three series of GSH analogues; further, a model of the interactions of GSH with the G-site is proposed. Twelve glycyl-modified GSH analogues, four ester derivatives of GSH and three cysteinyl-modified GSH analogues were synthesized and tested with purified forms of rat liver GST (1-1, 2-2, 3-3 and 4-4). The glycyl analogues exhibited spontaneous chemical reaction rates with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene comparable with the GSH rate. In contrast, the enzymic rates (Vmax.) differed greatly, from less than 1 up to 140 mumol/min per mg; apparently, a reaction mechanism is followed that is very sensitive to substitutions at the glycyl domain. No correlation exists between the chemical rates and Vmax. values for the analogues. Analogues of GSH in which L-cysteine was replaced by D-cysteine, L-homocysteine or L-penicillamine showed little or no capacity to replace GSH as co-substrate for the GSTs. GSH monomethyl and monoethyl esters showed Vmax. values greater than the Vmax. measured with GSH: the Vmax. for the monoethyl ester of GSH and GST 3-3 was 5-fold that for GSH. The data obtained in this and previous studies [Adang, Brussee, Meyer, Coles, Ketterer, van der Gen & Mulder (1988) Biochem. J. 255, 721-724; Adang, Meyer, Brussee, van der Gen, Ketterer & Mulder (1989) Biochem. J. 264, 759-764] allow a model of the interactions of GSH in the G-site in GSTs to be postulated. The gamma-glutamyl site is the main binding determinant: the alpha-carboxylate group is obligatory, whereas shifting of the amino group and shortening of the peptide backbone only decreased kcat./Km. Furthermore, the GSTs appear to be very critical with respect to a correct orientation of the thiol group of the GSH analogue. The glycyl site is the least restrictive domain in the G-site of GSTs: amino acid analogues all showed Km values between 0.2 and 0.6 mM (that for GSH is 0.2-0.3 mM), but large differences in Vmax. exist. The glycyl carboxylate group is not essential for substrate recognition, since decarboxy analogues and ester derivatives showed high activities. The possible mechanisms for an increased Vmax. in some analogues are briefly discussed.
Abstract Contact sensitivity induced in rabbits by the topical application of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB) was evaluated by the in vitro lymphocyte transformation response. The antigen employed to stimulate cultures was a preparation of DNCB conjugated homologous lymphocytes. This antigen preparation specifically stimulated blood lymphocytes from DNCB sensitive animals to transform in vitro . The kinetics of the primary immune response were determined by antigen mediated lymphocyte transformation in rabbits percutaneously sensitized with DNCB. The peak response was reached 12 days following initial exposure to DNCB. Sensitivity decreased but remained at detectable levels through 57 days of the primary response. Skin testing the animals late in the primary response stimulated an increase in the number of circulating sensitive lymphocytes. Serum proteins, conjugated with DNCB, were not suitable antigens for the in vitro detection of contact sensitivity.
Chlorpyrifos is a typical organophosphate pesticide and is among the most widely used worldwide. The objective of the present investigation was to assess the effect of chlorpyrifos exposure on glutathione S-transferase in Locusta migratoria. In the present study, chlorpyrifos (0.1, 0.2, and 0.4mgg(-1) body weight) was topically applied in the abdomen of locusts. The GST activity, mRNA levels of ten L. migratoria GSTs and protein levels of four representative GSTs were detected. The results showed that chlorpyrifos treatment caused significant decrease of 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB) and p-nitro-benzyl chloride (p-NBC) activities, whereas 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) activity was not altered in locusts. The mRNA levels of seven L. migratoria GSTs, including LmGSTs2, LmGSTs3, LmGSTs4, LmGSTs5, LmGSTs6, LmGSTt1, and LmGSTu1, were decreased after chlorpyrifos exposure. The protein levels of LmGSTs5, LmGSTt1 and LmGSTu1 were significantly decreased at higher doses of chlorpyrifos. However, chlorpyrifos elevated the mRNA and protein expression of LmGSTd1. It indicated that LmGSTd1 might contribute to the resistance of locust to organophosphate pesticides such as chlorpyrifos, whereas the decrease in other GSTs might be an economic compensation by the insect to differentially regulate the expression of enzymes involved in the detoxification of insecticides on the expense of those that are not.
We examined the effects of acute isobutyl nitrite (ISBN) exposure on the activity of several hepatic enzymes. Two strains of adult male mice (Balb/c and C57BL/6) were exposed to 900 ppm ISBN or ambient air for 45 minutes. The enzyme activity of hepatic cytochrome P450 (CYP)-mediated deethylation, glutathione S-transferase (GST), and carboxylesterase (CBE) was monitored through the substrates 3-cyano-7-ethoxycoumarin (CEC), 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, and p-nitrophenyl acetate, respectively. Acute ISBN exposure led to a significant reduction in hepatic CYP-mediated CEC deethylation, GST, and CBE activity in Balb/c mice (of 81.5%, 74.7%, and 25.2%, respectively, vs control mice, each at P<.05) when livers were harvested immediately after inhalant exposure. The corresponding decreases in C57BL/6 mice were smaller (with reductions of 21.8%, 18.8%, and 13.3%, respectively, each at P<.05). This enzyme activity, tested in C57BL/6 mice only, returned to control values after a 24-hour period of nonexposure. Follow-up mechanistic investigations using rat liver GST indicated that ISBN-mediated enzyme inactivation was not caused by its metabolites: inorganic nitrite ion (NO2−) or nitric oxide. This inactivation could be prevented, but not reversed, by added glutathione, suggesting irreversible protein oxidation. Using different NO donors as comparative agents, we found that GST inactivation by ISBN was not associated with protein S-nitrosylation or disulfide formation, but with tyrosine nitration. Inhalant nitrite exposure, therefore, led to a significant reduction in hepatic enzyme activity in mice, possibly through tyrosine nitration of hepatic proteins. This effect raises the possibility of drug-drug metabolic interactions from inhalant nitrite abuse. However, determining the applicability of these findings to humans will require further study.
Direct quantitation of glutathione S-transferase (GST) isoforms [α (GST-A) and μ (GST-M)] in human liver cytosol was achieved by liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry (LC/ESI-MS/MS) analysis of signature peptides of GST-A and GST-M and their corresponding stable isotopic peptide internal standards via multiple reaction monitoring (MRM). The selection of signature peptides was performed via trypsin digestion of commercially available cDNA-expressed GST-A1 and GST-M1, followed by LC/ESI-MS/MS with an ion trap mass spectrometer and sequencing with the TurboSEQUEST® application. Quantitative analysis of the selected signature peptides in the multi-reaction monitoring (MRM) mode was performed using a triple-quadruple mass spectrometer. A series of human cytosol samples was quantitatively analyzed for levels of GST-A and GST-M. The total level of GST-A and GST-M obtained from this LC/ESI-MS/MS method was well correlated with the total level of GST determined by the 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) method. Copyright © 2004 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
The dietary administration of β-carotene (BC) daily has been found to be highly effective in reducing hepatocarcinogenesis in male Sprague-Dawley rats fed 3′-methyl-4-dimethylaminoazo-benzene (3′-Met-DAB). The anti-cancer efficacy of BC was evaluated by estimating some possible pre-neoplastic and neo-plastic hepatic anti-oxidant markers such as glutathione (GSH) and related enzymes, namely glutathione S-transferases (GSHT, with varying substrate specificities), γ-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT), glutathione peroxidase (GPX) and reductase. BC proved to be an effective anti-neoplastic substance in long-term treatment. Furthermore, BC limited the exponential increase of GSH, GGT, GSH-T and GPX both in the hyperplastic nodules (HNs) and surrounding liver (NNSP) areas compared with carcinogen control (3′-Met-DAB) rats during long-term treatment. Early marginal changes in GSH, GGT and GSHT (with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as a substrate) activities in BC-treated groups for 10 days compared with carcinogen (3′-Met-DAB once) control rats entail the participation of BC in the initial stages of hepatocarcinogenesis. A decrease in the number of hyperplastic nodules and the total liver parenchyma they occupy was observed in BC-treated groups. HNs and NNSP liver areas are directly correlated with hepatic BC and vitamin A content and with rates and patterns of hepatic anti-oxidant defense enzymes. Our results confirm that BC is protective in limiting the action of 3′-Met-DAB during the initiation phase of hepatocarcinogenesis. © 1995 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
The yeast prion Ure2p is composed of an N-terminal prion domain, and a C-terminal globular domain, which shows similarity to glutathione transferases (GSTs) in both sequence and structure. Ure2p protects Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells from heavy metal ion and oxidant toxicity. Ure2p shows glutathione-dependent peroxidase (GPx) activity, which is often an adjunct activity of GSTs, but wild-type Ure2p shows no detectable GST activity toward the standard substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). The structural basis for the substrate specificity of Ure2p enzymatic activity is an interesting problem that is fundamental to understanding the in vivo roles of Ure2p and its relationship to the GST structural family. The critical catalytic residue in the other known GSTs is Ser, Tyr or Cys. Here, we demonstrate that residue N124 is important for the GPx activity of Ure2p, and a wild-type level of activity is maintained in N124S, but not in N124Y/C. Interestingly, we found that the single-site mutations A122C and N124A/V (but not N124S/Y/C) "restore" the GST activity of Ure2p toward CDNB, while causing a substantial reduction in GPx activity. The steady-state kinetics for the GST activity of A122C appears to follow a ping-pong mechanism. In contrast, the GST activity of 124-site mutants shows a sequential mechanism, as is observed for the native GPx activity of Ure2p, and typical GST enzymes. These findings shed light on the evolutionary relationship of Ure2p with other GST family members, and contribute to our understanding of catalytic promiscuity and divergent evolution.
Glutathione S-transferases (GST) are multifunctional proteins encoded by a large gene family, divided on the basis of sequence identity into phi, tau, theta, zeta and lambda classes. The phi and tau classes are present only in plants. GSTs appear to be ubiquitous in plants and are involved in herbicide detoxification and stress response, but little is known about the precise role of GSTs in normal plant physiology and during biotic and abiotic stress response. Two cDNAs representing the two plant classes tau and phi, AtGSTF9 and AtGSTU26, were expressed in vitro and the corresponding proteins were analysed. Both GSTs were able to catalyse a glutathione conjugation to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), but they were inactive as transferases towards p-nitrobenzylchloride (pNBC). AtGSTF9 showed activity towards benzyl isothiocyanate (BITC) and an activity as glutathione peroxidase with cumene hydroperoxide (CumHPO). AtGSTU26 was not active as glutathione peroxidase and towards BITC. RT-PCR analysis was used to evaluate the expression of the two genes in response to treatment with herbicides and safeners, chemicals, low and high temperature. Our results reveal that AtGSTU26 is induced by the chloroacetanilide herbicides alachlor and metolachlor and the safener benoxacor, and after exposure to low temperatures. In contrast, AtGSTF9 seems not to be influenced by the treatments employed.
The stability of curcumin, as well as the interactions between curcumin and cytochrome P450s (P450s) and glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) in rat liver, were studied. Curcumin is relatively unstable in phosphate buffer at pH 7.4. The stability of curcumin was strongly improved by lowering the pH or by adding glutathione (GSH), N-acetyl L-cysteine (NAC), ascorbic acid, rat liver microsomes, or rat liver cytosol. Curcumin was found to be a potent inhibitor of rat liver P450 1A1/1A2 measured as ethoxyresorufin deethylation (EROD) activity in beta-naphthoflavone (beta NF)-induced microsomes, a less potent inhibitor of P450 2B1/2B2, measured as pentoxyresorufin depentylation (PROD) activity in phenobarbital (PB)-induced microsomes and a weak inhibitor of P450 2E1, measured as p-nitrophenol (PNP) hydroxylation activity in pyrazole-induced microsomes. Ki values were 0.14 and 76.02 microM for the EROD- and PROD-activities, respectively, and 30 microM of curcumin inhibited only 9% of PNP-hydroxylation activity. In ethoxyresorufin deethylation (EROD) and pentoxyresorufin depentylation (PROD) experiments, curcumin showed a competitive type of inhibition. Curcumin was also a potent inhibitor of glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity in cytosol from liver of rats treated with phenobarbital (PB), beta-naphthoflavone (beta NF) and pyrazole (Pyr), when measured towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrate. In liver cytosol from rats treated with phenobarbital (PB), curcumin inhibited GST activity in a mixed-type manner with a Ki of 5.75 microM and Ki of 12.5 microM. In liver cytosol from rats treated with pyrazole (Pyr) or beta-naphthoflavone (beta NF), curcumin demonstrated a competitive type of inhibition with Ki values of 1.79 microM and 2.29 microM, respectively. It is concluded that these strong inhibitory properties of curcumin towards P450s and GSTs, in addition to its well-known antioxidant activity, may help explain the previously observed anticarcinogenic, antimutagenic, and cytoprotective effects of this important natural compound and food constituent.
Five monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) were produced in a mouse hybridoma system against human placental glutathione transferase (GST п). Four of these monoclonal antibodies, named 461 to 464, were of immunoglobulin G class, whereas the monoclonal antibody 465 was of IgA class. All these MAbs specifically recognized the glutathione transferase from human placenta (class п ) showing no cross reactivity against the basic and the neutral forms of GST from human liver. When each MAb was incubated with the GST п, no inhibition of enzymatic activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was observed except for MAb 465 which showed a slight inhibition to a serial dilution of 1:128.
After many years of limitation to experimental studies of contact allergic sensitization, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (2,4-dinitro-1-chlorobenzene) has again appeared in the occupational environment as an algicide for cooling water. Four cases of contact dermatitis in air-conditioning repairmen occurred, and a description of the case histories of three of them is given. The authors emphasize the necessity for engineering completely closed systems which afford no human contact with this highly allergenic substance.
In this study, the cherry laurel flesh fruit was purified to obtain glutathione S-transferase, a well-known antioxidant enzyme. Enzyme purification was performed using two separate processes: gel filtration and affinity chromatography. The sodium dodecyl sulfate electrophoresis method was used for determining enzyme purity. The optimum pH, optimum temperature, optimum ionic strength, stable pH, and KM and Vmax values for glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene were obtained for the enzyme as follows: 7.0 in the K-phosphate buffer, 30 °C, 0.125 M, 6.5 in the K-phosphate buffer, 0.344 mM, 0.89 mM, and 0.098 EU/ml, 0.214 EU/ml. Lineweaver-Burk graphs were used to examine the in vitro enzyme activity in order to determine the inhibitory effects of some metal ions such as Cd2+, Ni2+, Cu2+, and Mg2+ and organic compounds such as sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS), ascorbic acid (vitamin C), benzoic acid, and ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA). The IC50 and Ki values for each of the metal ions and organic molecules were calculated. According to the results, Ca2+ metal ion and sodium dodecyl sulfate compounds were found to be the best inhibitor with a Ki value of 0.06 ± 0.04 and 0.20 ± 0.27, respectively.
The common substrate for glutathione S-transferases (GSTs), 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), is an inhibitor of Escherichia coli growth. This growth inhibition by CDNB is enhanced when E. coli expresses a functional GST. Cells under growth inhibition have reduced intracellular GSH levels and form filaments when they resume growth. Based on this differential growth inhibition by CDNB we have developed a simple procedure to select for null-mutants of a human GST in E. coli. Null mutations in the human GST gene from hydroxylamine mutagenesis or oligonucleotide-directed mutagenesis can be selected for on agar plates containing CDNB after transformation. The molecular nature of each mutation can be identified by DNA sequence analysis of the mutant GST gene. We have identified three essential amino acid residues in an alpha class human GST at Glu31, Glu96, and Gly97. Single substitution at each of these residues, E31K, E96K, G97D, resulted in mutant GST proteins with loss of CDNB conjugation activity and failure in binding to the S-hexyl GSH affinity matrix. In contrast, a mutant GST (Y8F) resulting from substitution of the conserved tyrosine near the N terminus has much reduced CDNB conjugation activity but was still capable of binding to the S-hexyl GSH-agarose. Additional mutant GSTs with substitutions at position 96 (E96F, E96Y) and 97 (G97P, G97T, G97S) resulted in changes in both Km and kcat to different extents. The in vitro CDNB conjugation activity of the purified mutant enzymes correlate negatively with the plating efficiencies of strains encoding them in the presence of CDNB. Based on the x-ray structure model of human GST 1-1, two of these residues are involved in salt bridges (Arg19-Glu31, Arg68-Glu96) and the third Gly97 is in the middle of the helix alpha 4. Our results provide evidence in vivo that Tyr8, Gly97, and the two salt bridges are important for GST structure-function. This molecular genetic approach for the identification of essential amino acids in GSTs should be applicable to any GSTs with CDNB conjugation activity. It should also complement the x-ray crystallographic approach in understanding the structure and function of GSTs.
The glutathione S-transferases are a group of proteins with overlapping substrate specificities and ligand-binding capacities. This report examines certain approaches to the measurement of transferase B (ligandin) in the rat liver. The ratio of catalytic activities toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene gives some indication of the relative proportions of the various transferases present in 100 000 g supernatants. The fraction of catalytic activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, due to transferase B, was best measured by immunoprecipitation with anti-(transferase B). Male rat liver exhibited three times more activity towards 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene than female tissue; however, the activities towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene were almost identical. By assuming a specific activity of 11 mumol/min per mg, immunoprecipitable transferase B comprised 4.5 +/- 0.2% of total protein in the 100 000 g supernatant of female rat liver, and 70% of the transferase activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. The amount of transferase B in the 100 000 g supernatant from male rat liver is significantly lower with respect to both fraction of total protein (3.3 +/- 0.2%) and overall transferase activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (48%). Hypophysectomy eliminated this sex difference in the hepatic concentration of glutathione S-transferase B.
A glutathione S-transferase (GST) isozyme from maize (Zea mays Pioneer hybrid 3906) treated with the dichloroacetamide herbicide safener benoxacor (CGA-154281) was purified to homogeneity and partially characterized. The enzyme, assayed with metolachlor as a substrate, was purified approximately 200-fold by ammonium sulfate precipitation, anion-exchange chromatography on Mono Q resins, and affinity chromatography on S-hexylglutathione agarose from total GST activity present in etiolated shoots. The purified protein migrated during sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE) as a single band with a molecular mass of 27 kD. Using nondenaturing PAGE, we determined that the native protein has a molecular mass of about 57 kD and that the protein exists as a dimer. Two-dimensional electrophoresis revealed only a single protein with an isoelectric point of 5.75 and molecular mass of 27 kD. These results further suggest that the protein exists as a homodimer of two identical 27-kD subunits. The enzyme was most active with substrates possessing a chloroacetamide structure. trans-Cinnamic acid and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene were not effective substrates. Apparent Km values for the enzyme were 10.8 [mu]M for the chloroacetamide metolachlor and 292 [mu]M for glutathione. The enzyme was active from pH 6 to 9, with a pH optimum between 7.5 and 8. An apparently blocked amino terminus of the intact protein prevented direct amino acid sequencing. The enzyme was digested with trypsin, and the amino acid sequences of several peptide fragments were obtained. The sequence information for the isolated GST we have designated “GST IV” indicates that the enzyme is a unique maize GST but shares some homology with maize GSTs I and III.
The electrophilic agent, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), has been widely used as an intracellular glutathione-depleting agent. However, its possible effect on the functional integrity of cell membrane has largely been neglected. Incubation of human erythrocytes (RBC) with various concentrations of CDNB (0.5 to 5.0 mM) in potassium-free, phosphate buffered saline containing ouabain resulted in a drastic depletion of cellular glutathione as well as a dose-dependent increase in passive potassium leakage. Further, an osmotic gradient ektacytometry profile indicated that the deformability index (DI) of CDNB-treated RBC was substantially lower than the DI value of the control. Also, CDNB caused a dose-dependent increase in the rate of shear-induced fragmentation of resealed ghost prepared from treated, intact erythrocytes. These CDNB-induced changes were accompanied by stomatocytic transformations as evidenced by scanning electron micrographs. Additional study indicated that CDNB caused a dose-dependent decrease in thiol concentrations of RBC membrane. SDS-PAGE analysis of membrane proteins revealed new Coomassie blue stainable bands, most noticeable below band-7 (M.W. 20,000). The effects of CDNB on RBC deformability and membrane proteins were also investigated under an atmosphere without oxygen (under nitrogen) and similar effects were observed between that under room air and that under nitrogen. Taken together, these data strongly indicate that CDNB has an adverse effect on the RBC membrane integrity in addition to its ability to deplete intracellular glutathione, possibly through its interaction with membrane sulfhydryl groups.
Trivalent antimony (SB3+) in the form of potassium antimony tartrate was found to be an inhibitor of glutathione-S-transferases (GST) from human erythrocytes with a 50% inhibition concentration (IC50) of 0.05 mM. The inhibition was, however, incomplete with 15-20% of the GST activity remaining unaffected. In comparison, ethacrynic acid, a known inhibitor of GST, was tenfold more potent and affected close to 100% inhibition. Pentavalent antimony (SB5+) in the form of sodium stibogluconate had no effect on GST. Group V metalloids such as arsenite was slightly inhibitory, and arsenate was noninhibitory. When compared with five heavy metals, the inhibitory potency followed the order of SB3+ > Hg2+, Cu2+ > Cd 2+ > Cr3+ > Fe2+ x SB3+ inhibition of GST was competitive against the substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) with an apparent Ki of 0.018 mM. Increasing the glutathione (GSH) concentration, however, produced a biphasic response: at concentrations below 1 mM, GSH was noncompetitive against SB3+, but at 1 mM and higher it was apparently competitive. A concurrent study of interactions between GSH, CDNB, and SB3+ showed that there was a significant nonenzymatic conjugation of CDNB at high GSH concentrations, which was suppressed by SB3+. The presence of albumin (500 mg/dL), or up to 5 mM N-acetylcysteine, cysteine, or ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid (EDTA) did not protect GST from the inhibitory effect of SB3+. The ability of erythrocyte GST to conjugate CDNB, which was measured directly by the formation of dinitrophenyl-glutathione (DNP-glutathione), was reduced by approximately 20 and 33%, respectively, in the presence of 2 and 10 mM SB3+, and nearly abolished with the addition of 0.2 mM ethacrynic acid. Based on these inhibition characteristics and the preferential accumulation of SB3+ in mammalian erythrocytes, it may be deduced that in the case of high antimonial intake, for example, during therapeutic treatment of Leishmaniasis, SB3+ levels in erythrocytes may be high enough to depress GST activity, which might compromise the ability of erythrocytes to detoxify electrophilic xenotbiotics.
The glutathione transferases (GSTs) are a family of ubiquitous enzymes that catalyze the conjugation of reduced glutathione (GSH) with reactive electrophiles. Rat vascular tissue contains GST isoforms that represent a major cellular defense mechanism against atherogenic α,β-unsaturated aldehydes (Misraet al., Toxicol. Appl. Pharmacol.133, 27–33, 1995). In this study we examined the role of GSTs in providing protection to cultured neonatal vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) from the α,β-unsaturated carbonyl cardiovascular toxins, allylamine and its metabolite, acrolein. Confluent cultured cells were exposed to 2 to 10 μM allylamine (a cardiovascular toxin that is metabolizedin vivoandin vitroby VSMCs to the reactive aldehyde, acrolein) or to acrolein (2–10 μM) for 48 h; dose–cytotoxicity curves were generated utilizing a tetrazolium-dependent cytotoxicity assay. Concommittant treatment with sulfasalazine, an established inhibitor of GST, was found to markedly increase allylamine- or acrolein-induced cytotoxicity, decreasing the LC50by two- to threefold at 50 to 100 μM sulfasalazine. A clonogenic survival assay in VSMCs exposed to these compounds for 4 h confirmed lethal toxicity and enhanced toxicity following cotreatment with sulfasalazine. Isobologram analysis (which statistically defines the limits of additivity of two independent treatments) showed that the sulfasalazine effect on both allylamine and acrolein cytotoxicity was supraadditive, or synergistic. Sulfasalazine was not cytotoxic to VSMCs in the range of concentrations that augmented acrolein or allylamine cytoxicity; total GST activity was inhibited, however, in a dose-dependent manner in that range. GST purified by GSH-affinity chromatography from pelleted untreated cells gave specific activities and kinetic constants consistent with those previously reported for rat aorta total GSTs. The catalytic efficiency (Kcat/Vm) was found to be much greater for 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal than for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (0.058 vs 0.4 s-1mM-1). Western blot of purified total GSTs using antibodies against rec-mGSTA4–4 revealed a single band at 25 kDa, confirming the presence of a GST isozyme immunologically similar to rat GST8–8, which is known to utilize α,β-unsaturated carbonyls as preferred substrates. Our data indicate that GSTs are an important defense in the vascular media, protecting blood vessels against α,β-unsaturated carbonyl cardiovascular toxins that are involved in initiating atherosclerotic lesions.
We examined the effects of acute isobutyl nitrite (ISBN) exposure on the activity of several hepatic enzymes. Two strains of adult male mice (Balb/c and C57BL/6) were exposed to 900 ppm ISBN or ambient air for 45 minutes. The enzyme activity of hepatic cytochrome P450 (CYP)-mediated deethylation, glutathione S-transferase (GST), and carboxylesterase (CBE) was monitored through the substrates 3-cyano-7-ethoxycoumarin (CEC), 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, and p-nitrophenyl acetate, respectively. Acute ISBN exposure led to a signifi cant reduction in hepatic CYP-mediated CEC deethylation, GST, and CBE activity in Balb/c mice (of 81.5%, 74.7%, and 25.2%, respectively, vs control mice, each at P < .05) when livers were harvested immediately after inhalant exposure. The corresponding decreases in C57BL/6 mice were smaller (with reductions of 21.8%, 18.8%, and 13.3%, respectively, each at P < .05). This enzyme activity, tested in C57BL/6 mice only, returned to control values after a 24-hour period of nonexposure. Follow-up mechanistic investigations using rat liver GST indicated that ISBN-mediated enzyme inactivation was not caused by its metabolites: inorganic nitrite ion (NO 2 -) or nitric oxide. This inactivation could be prevented, but not reversed, by added glutathione, suggesting irreversible protein oxidation. Using different NO donors as comparative agents, we found that GST inactivation by ISBN was not associated with protein S-nitrosylation or disulfi de formation, but with tyrosine nitration. Inhalant nitrite exposure, therefore, led to a signifi cant reduction in hepatic enzyme activity in mice, possibly through tyrosine nitration of hepatic proteins. This effect raises the possibility of drug-drug metabolic interactions from inhalant nitrite abuse. However, determining the applicability of these fi ndings to humans will require further study.
24) GST activities were assayed using the spectrophotometric method using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as the substrate.
Glutathione S-transferase (GST) isoenzymes of human pancreas were purified, characterized and evaluated for their possible role in the metabolism of ethanol. Human pancreas has at least two GST isoenzymes belonging to the Alpha class (pI 8.8 and 8.1), one belonging to the Mu class (pI 6.4) and one belonging to the Pi class (pI 4.9). During the purification of GSTs from pancreas as well as from heart, liver, lung, brain and muscle, the fatty acid ethyl ester synthase (FAEES) activity was monitored in order to evaluate the role of GSTs in metabolism of ethanol, as suggested in earlier studies. Both t.l.c. and h.p.l.c. were used to identify ethyl oleate in reaction mixtures to monitor FAEES activity. During the purification of GSTs with the use of affinity chromatography on GSH linked to epoxy-activated Sepharose 6B, FAEES and GST activities from each of these tissues segregated independently. Purified GST isoenzymes from these tissues did not exhibit any FAEES activity. Antibodies raised against Pi-class GST, as expected, immunoprecipitated most of the GST activity of brain and heart without precipitating FAEES activity. These results suggest that human GST isoenzymes belonging to the Alpha, Mu and Pi classes do not express FAEES activity. The independent segregation of GST and FAEES activities was further demonstrated by monitoring GST activity during the purification of FAEES from pancreas. It was found that purified FAEES had no GST activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and a number of other electrophilic substrates. Results of these studies demonstrate that FAEES and GSTs are distinct proteins.
Male F344 rats were administered piperonyl butoxide (α[2-(2-butoxyethoxy)ethoxy]-4,5-methylenedioxy-2-propyltoluene), mixed in their diet for up to 4 weeks, and phenobarbital was administered to rats for the same period in drinking water as a positive control. We examined the changes in relative liver weight, cytochrome P450 contents, and various drugmetabolizing enzyme activities i.e., 7-alkoxycoumarin O-dealkylase activities, glutathione S-transferase activities to 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene or 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as a substrate, and UDP-glucuronosyltransferase activity to p-nitrophenol as a substrate in the livers of those animals. All parameters examined were significantly elevated by treatment of 2% or both 0.2 and 2% piperonyl butoxide. As for P450 isozymes, induction of CYP1A1, 2B1/2, 3A, and 4A was revealed by both immunoblot analysis and immunohistochemistry. Immunohistochemistry also demonstrated that these isozymes were induced in the central zone of the hepatic lobule. These results, except for CYP1A1 induction, observed in the piperonyl butoxide-treated rats were exceedingly similar to those in the phenobarbital-treated rats used as a positive control in the present study. Phenobarbital is well-known as a promoter of liver tumor development, and consequently it has been postulated that there is a strong relationship between the promoter activity and the induction of CYP2B1/2. The present results suggest that piperonyl butoxide may act as a promoter in liver tumor development, as has recently been reported in a rat study.
Abstract Mixed-function oxidase and glutathione S -transferase activities were measured from tissue homogenates of larval and adult tobacco budworms that were collected from cotton fields in Texas and Louisiana. Mixed-function oxidase activity toward p -nitroanisole was detected in both developmental stages and, in six of the eight field collections tested, mean levels of activity were significantly higher than activity measured in parallel assays with insects from a laboratory-reared, insecticide-susceptible colony. However, the significance of this activity with respect to pyrethroid metabolism and resistance is unclear because variation in mixed-function oxidase activity among these strains was poorly correlated with susceptibility to cypermethrin. Glutathione S -transferase activities toward 3,4-dichloronitrobenzene and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene were also detected in both larvae and adult insects, and mean levels varied among the field collections tested. Patterns of activity in tissues examined for both mixed-function oxidases and glutathione S -transferases were different between larvae and adults suggesting that the regulation and expression of these enzyme activities is dependent on developmental stage.
Abstract Larvae of the obliquebanded leafroller, Choristoneura rosaceana (Harris) (Lepidoptera: Tortricidae), were collected from apple orchards in Deux-Montagnes, Quebec, Canada, where leafroller populations were documented to be resistant to azinphosmethyl. Larvae were bioassayed for azinphosmethyl resistance over five generations of rearing in the laboratory in the absence of insecticide selection pressure; resistance levels reverted to susceptibility in approximately four generations in 1995 and three generations in 1996. In 1996, activities of esterases and glutathione transferases were assayed in adult moths concurrently across generations. Reversion of resistance was significantly correlated with decreasing esterase activities in both male and female moths when either α-naphthyl acetate or α-naphthyl butyrate was used as the test substrate. Glutathione transferase activities were correlated with resistance levels only in male moths when 3,4-dichloronitrobenzene (DCNB) was the test substrate; no correlations between activity and resistance were observed for females with DCNB or for either sex when activity was assayed with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). The instability of azinphosmethyl resistance in the obliquebanded leafroller, coupled with the apparent involvement of esterases in resistance development, should make this pest amenable to a resistance management strategy involving the rotation of azinphosmethyl with other control materials that are not primarily metabolized by esterases.
We have demonstrated that the simplest steady-state random sequential Bi Bi mechanism is sufficient to explain the previously reported non-hyperbolic kinetics of glutathione S-transferase 3-3 [Pabst MJ et al., J Biol Chem 249: 7140-7150, 1974; Jakobson I et al., Biochem J 177: 861-868, 1979]. The metabolism of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene by rat liver glutathione S-transferase isoenzymes 2-2 and 3-3 and of 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene by isoenzyme 3-4 was shown to exhibit non-hyperbolic kinetics, which are best fit by the simplest steady-state random sequential Bi Bi mechanism. Neither more complex steady-state mechanisms nor the superimposition of product inhibition or enzyme memory on the simplest steady-state mechanism was necessary to generate non-hyperbolic kinetics for the glutathione S-transferases.
We previously reported that a velvetleaf (Abutilon theophrasti Medic) biotype found in Maryland was resistant to atrazine because of an enhanced capacity to detoxify the herbicide via glutathione conjugation (JW Gronwald, Andersen RN, Yee C [1989] Pestic Biochem Physiol 34: 149-163). The biochemical basis for the enhanced atrazine conjugation capacity in this biotype was examined. Glutathione levels and glutathione S-transferase activity were determined in extracts from the atrazine-resistant biotype and an atrazine-susceptible or “wild-type” velvetleaf biotype. In both biotypes, the highest concentration of glutathione (approximately 500 nanomoles per gram fresh weight) was found in leaf tissue. However, no significant differences were found in glutathione levels in roots, stems, or leaves of either biotype. In both biotypes, the highest concentration of glutathione S-transferase activity measured with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene or atrazine as substrate was in leaf tissue. Glutathione S-transferase measured with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate was 40 and 25% greater in leaf and stem tissue, respectively, of the susceptible biotype compared to the resistant biotype. In contrast, glutathione S-transferase activity measured with atrazine as substrate was 4.4- and 3.6-fold greater in leaf and stem tissue, respectively, of the resistant biotype. Kinetic analyses of glutathione S-transferase activity in leaf extracts from the resistant and susceptible biotypes were performed with the substrates glutathione, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, and atrazine. There was little or no change in apparent Km values for glutathione, atrazine, or 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. However, the Vmax for glutathione and atrazine were approximately 3-fold higher in the resistant biotype than in the susceptible biotype. In contrast, the Vmax for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was 30% lower in the resistant biotype. Leaf glutathione S-transferase isozymes that exhibit activity with atrazine and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene were separated by fast protein liquid (anion-exchange) chromatography. The susceptible biotype had three peaks exhibiting activity with atrazine and the resistant biotype had two. The two peaks of glutathione S-transferase activity with atrazine from the resistant biotype coeluted with two of the peaks from the susceptible biotype, but peak height was three- to fourfold greater in the resistant biotype. In both biotypes, two of the peaks that exhibit glutathione S-transferase activity with atrazine also exhibited activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, with the peak height being greater in the susceptible biotype. The results indicate that atrazine resistance in the velvetleaf biotype from Maryland is due to enhanced glutathione S-transferase activity for atrazine in leaf and stem tissue which results in an enhanced capacity to detoxify the herbicide via glutathione conjugation.
Abstract This study compared the in vitro responses of malignant and normal cells from the human oral cavity to tea extracts and to its main polyphenolic component, (-)-epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG). The antiproliferative effects of tea polyphenolic extracts and EGCG were more pronounced towards immortalized, tumourigenic (CAL27, HSC-2, and HSG(1)) and non-tumourigenic (S-G) cells than towards normal (GN56 and HGF-1) fibroblasts and green tea was more toxic than black tea. As the addition of tea extract or EGCG to cell culture medium led to the formation of hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)), the research then focused on EGCG as an inducer of oxidative stress, using CAL27, the cancerous cells most sensitive to EGCG, HSG(1), the cancerous cells least sensitive to EGCG, and GN56 cells. The toxicity of EGCG was decreased in the presence of catalase, an enzyme that degrades H(2)O(2), or of deferoxamine, a chelator of Fe(3+). Conversely, pretreatment of the cells with the glutathione depleters, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-N-nitrosourea, potentiated the toxicity of EGCG. A 4-hr exposure to EGCG lessened the intracellular level of reduced glutathione in the CAL27 and HSG(1) cells, but not in the GN56 fibroblasts. Whereas EGCG itself did not induce lipid peroxidation, Fe(2+)-induced lipid peroxidation was potentiated by EGCG. A 72-hr exposure to cytotoxic concentrations of EGCG induced significant cytoplasmic vacuolization in all cell types. The results presented herein are consistent with EGCG acting as a prooxidant, with the cancerous cells more sensitive to oxidative stress than the normal cells.
Abstract Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are essential enzymes for the bioactivation of xenobiotics through the conjugation of the thiol group of glutathione (GSH). In this study, a kappa class of GST was identified from the big belly seahorse ( Hippocampus abdominalis ) (HaGSTκ1) and its biochemical and functional properties were analyzed. HaGSTκ1 has 231 amino acids encoded by a 696 bp open reading frame (ORF). The protein has a predicted molecular mass of 26.04 kDa and theoretical isoelectric point (pI) of 8.28. It comprised a thioredoxin domain, disulfide bond formation protein A (DsbA) general fold, and Ser15 catalytic site as well as GSH-binding and polypeptide-binding sites. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that HaGSTκ1 is closely clustered with the kappa class of GSTs from teleost fishes. The recombinant (rHaGSTκ1) protein exhibited activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), 4-nitrobenzyl (4-NBC), and 4-nitrophenethyl bromide (4-NPB) but not 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB). The optimum pH and temperature were 8 and 30 °C, respectively, for the catalysis of CDNB and the universal substrate of GSTs. The rHaGSTκ1 activity was efficiently inhibited in the presence of Cibacron blue (CB) as compared with hematin. Most prominent expression of HaGSTκ1 was observed in the liver and kidney among the fourteen different tissues of normal seahorse. After challenge with lipopolysaccharide (LPS), polyinosinic-polycytidylic (poly I:C), gram-negative Edwardsiella tarda , and gram-positive Streptococcus iniae , HaGSTκ1 expression was significantly modulated in the liver and blood tissues. Altogether, our study proposes the plausible important role of HaGSTκ1 in innate immunity and detoxification of harmful xenobiotics.
The effect of propofol on the hepatic and extrahepatic conjugation enzyme systems was assessed in vitro using microsomal and cytosolic preparations of human liver, hamster kidney, lung and gut. The functional activities of phase-II enzymes, including uridine diphosphateglucuronosyltransferase (UDPGT), glutathione S-transferase (GST) and N-acetyltransferase (NAT) were evaluated in the presence of various concentrations of propofol (0.05–1.0 mmol litre –1 ), using 1-naphthol, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and p-aminobenzoic acid as substrates respectively. Propofol produced concentration-dependent inhibition of UDPGT activity in human liver microsomes. Propofol did not produce significant inhibition of human hepatic GST activity at concentrations below 1.0 mmol litre –1 . In contrast, NAT activity was unaffected by propofol 0.05–1.0 mmol litre –1 in human liver cytosolic preparations. In extrahepatic tissues, hamster renal and intestinal UDPGT activities were significantly inhibited by propofol at 0.25– 1.0 mmol litre –1 . In these tissues, GST and NAT were unaffected by propofol at 1.0 mmol litre –1 . Propofol produced differential inhibition of human liver and hamster extrahepatic conjugation enzymes as a result of different substrate and tissue specificities. The potential interference of the metabolic profile of phase-II enzymes as a result of inhibition by propofol (especially of UDPGT and GST) should be considered when using propofol with other drugs for anaesthesia. Br J Anaesth 2000; 84: 771–6
Exposure of 3T3 cells to micromolar doses of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, a substrate for glutathione-S-transferase, resulted in a rapid depletion of total cellular glutathione accompanied by disassembly of microtubules as visualized by fluorescence microscopy. However, prolonged incubation resulted in cellular recovery from 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene insult as evidenced by a steady rise in total cellular glutathione accompanied by microtubule reassembly to their normal organization 5 hours after treatment. To evaluate the role of total cellular glutathione in modulating the 1chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene-induced cytoskeletal perturbation, we used 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and/or buthiomine sulfoximine, an effective irreversible inhibitor of glutathione synthesis, to manipulate cellular glutathione levels. Incubation of 3T3 cells with 2.5 μM 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 250 μM buthiomine sulfoximine for 5 hours resulted in a complete depletion of total cellular glutathione accompanied by essentially complete loss of microtubules and marked alterations in the density and distribution pattern of microfilaments. Buthionine sulfoximine enhanced markedly the extent and duration of cellular glutathione depletion and the severity of microtubule disruption of 3T3 cells over the level achieved by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene treatment alone. Furthermore, buthiomine sulfoximine also prevented the restoration of cellular glutathione content and microtubule reassembly that normally were evident 5 hours after 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene treatment. Exposure of 3T3 cells to 50 μM 2-cyclohexene-l-one, which depletes free glutathione by conjugation, resulted in a com
The in vitro interaction of mercury, copper (II) and cadmium with human glutathione transferase (GST) pi was studied using reduced glutathione (GSH) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate. Tumor specific human GST pi was isolated from the human hepatoma derived PLC/PRF/5 cell line. The inhibition of the GST pi activity was dose dependent. Kinetic studies never revealed competitive inhibition. A parabolic inhibition was found with GSH as the variable substrate. The heavy metals are spontaneously conjugated with GSH and cysteine, but interact with GST pi by direct binding to this protein. This binding could have a protective function against heavy metals.
Trout kidney contains 2.3 mmol GSH/kg. The cytosolic glutathione S-transferase activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate is 0.35 mumol/min/mg protein. There is no detectable activity with 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)propane, ethacrynic acid, p-nitrobenzyl chloride or p-nitrophenyl acetate. A variable proportion of the activity does not bind to a glutathione-affinity matrix. Its Km values for GSH and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene are 3.0 and 5.1 mM, respectively. The rest of the activity is eluted from the affinity matrix as one main and two minor peaks. The main peak has Km values for GSH and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene of 0.4 and 4.5 mM, respectively. Its subunit Mr is 22,900. The activity in the main peak is inhibited progressively by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene with a rate constant of 0.11/min.
Insect glutathione S-transferases(GSTs) are mainly involved in detoxification of xenobiotics and/or endobiotics toxic substances.We selected Bmgste4 gene which encodes silkworm(Bombyx mori) GST E4 as the target to study its tissue expression profile,sequence characteristics and enzyme activity of the recombinant protein.RT-PCR analysis on expression profile in various tissues of day 3 silkworm larvae of the 5th instar indicated that Bmgste4 was expressed in head,antenna,maxillary palpus,epidermis,fat body,silk gland,Malpighian tubule of male larvae and ovary of female larvae but not expressed in haemocyte,midgut,testis of male larvae and Malpighian tubule of female larvae.Multiple sequence alignment showed that the GST secondary structural features of BmGSTD4 are complete and conservative.Its N-terminal amino acid residues are highly conservative,especially at the glutathione binding site.Recombinant protein expression plasmid p28-Bmgste4 containing open reading fragment of Bmgste4 gene was constructed and transformed into competent E.coli Rosetta(DE3) for prokaryotic expression.Enzyme activity of the recombinant protein towards classic substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was assayed by spectrophotography.The obtained enzymatic parameters were Km=0.58 mmol/L and Vmax=24.55 μmol/(mg·min).These results provide fundamental information for further study on detoxification and insecticide resistance of Bombyx mori and on development of novel agents for controlling lepidopteran pests.
We examined the role of reduced glutathione as a defense mechanism against acid-induced gastric mucosal cell damage in vitro. Cellular stores of reduced glutathione were depleted by reaction with diethyl maleate (DEM) or 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and increased by reaction with L-cysteine. Depletion of cellular glutathione by reaction with DEM or CDNB potentiated gastric mucosal cell lysis by acid. Increase of cellular glutathione by L-cysteine decreased cell lysis by acid. Altering the cellular reduced-to-oxidized glutathione ratio by tert-butyl hydroperoxide or diamide increased cellular susceptibility to acid. Reduced glutathione is essential for glutathione peroxidase to catalyze hydrogen peroxide. We further studied whether oxygen free radicals were involved in the pathogenesis of acid-induced gastric mucosal injury in vitro. Neither superoxide dismutase, catalase, nor dimethyl sulfoxide decreased acid-induced gastric mucosal cell damage. We conclude that reduced glutathione plays an important role as a defense mechanism against acid-induced injury in cultured rat gastric mucosal cells. Production of oxygen radical in response to acid exposure may occur intracellularly, since exogenous oxygen radical scavengers, which do not gain access to the interior of cells, had no protective effect. Reduced glutathione might protect gastric mucosal cells by mechanisms other than the elimination of oxygen free radicals.
BACKGROUND ::: Glutathione-s-transferases (GSTs) are enzymes that principally catalyze the conjugation of electrophilic compounds to the endogenous nucleophilic glutathione substrate, besides, they have other non-catalytic functions. The Plasmodium falciparum genome encodes a single isoform of GST (PfGST) which is involved in buffering the toxic heme, thus considered a potential anti-malarial target. In mammals several classes of GSTs are available, each of various isoforms. The human (human GST Pi-1 or hGSTP1) and mouse (murine GST Mu-1 or mGSTM1) GST isoforms control cellular apoptosis by interaction with signaling proteins, thus considered as potential anti-cancer targets. In the course of GSTs inhibitors development, the models of ligands interactions with GSTs are used to guide rational molecular modification. In the absence of X-ray crystallographic data, enzyme kinetics and molecular docking experiments can aid in addressing ligands binding modes to the enzymes. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Kinetic studies were used to investigate the interactions between the three GSTs and each of glutathione, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, cibacron blue, ethacrynic acid, S-hexyl glutathione, hemin and protoporphyrin IX. Since hemin displacement is intended for PfGST inhibitors, the interactions between hemin and other ligands at PfGST binding sites were studied kinetically. Computationally determined binding modes and energies were interlinked with the kinetic results to resolve enzymes-ligands interaction models at atomic level. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: The results showed that hemin and cibacron blue have different binding modes in the three GSTs. Hemin has two binding sites (A and B) with two binding modes at site-A depending on presence of GSH. None of the ligands were able to compete hemin binding to PfGST except ethacrynic acid. Besides bind differently in GSTs, the isolated anthraquinone moiety of cibacron blue is not maintaining sufficient interactions with GSTs to be used as a lead. Similarly, the ethacrynic acid uses water bridges to mediate interactions with GSTs and at least the conjugated form of EA is the true hemin inhibitor, thus EA may not be a suitable lead. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: Glutathione analogues with bulky substitution at thiol of cysteine moiety or at γ-amino group of γ-glutamine moiety may be the most suitable to provide GST inhibitors with hemin competition.
Carboxylic acid-containing drugs are metabolized mainly through the formation of glucuronide and coenzyme A esters. These conjugates have been suspected to be responsible for the toxicity of several nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs because of the reactivity of the electrophilic ester bond. In the present study we investigated the reactivity of ketoprofenyl-acylglucuronide (KPF-OG) and ketoprofenyl-acyl-coenzyme A (KPF-SCoA) toward cytosolic rat liver glutathione S -transferases (GST). We observed that KPF-SCoA, but not KPF-OG inhibited the conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 4-nitroquinoline N -oxide catalyzed by both purified cytosolic rat liver GST and GST from FAO and H5-6 rat hepatoma cell lines. Photoaffinity labeling with KPF-SCoA suggested that the binding of this metabolite may overlap the binding site of 4-methylumbelliferone sulfate. Furthermore, high-performance liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry analysis showed that both hydrolysis and transacylation reactions were observed in the presence of GST and glutathione. The formation of ketoprofenyl- S -acyl-glutathione could be kinetically characterized (apparent K m = 196.0 ± 70.6 μM). It is concluded that KPF-SCoA is both a GST inhibitor and a substrate of a GST-dependent transacylation reaction. The reactivity and inhibitory potency of thioester CoA derivatives toward GST may have potential implications on the reported in vivo toxicity of some carboxylic acid-containing drugs.
Under standard assay conditions, with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as electrophilic substrate, rat glutathione transferase 4-4 is strongly inhibited (I50 = 1 microM) by indomethacin. No other glutathione transferase investigated is significantly inhibited by micromolar concentrations of indomethacin. Paradoxically, the strong inhibition of glutathione transferase 4-4 was dependent on high (millimolar) concentrations of CDNB; at low concentrations of this substrate or with other substrates the effect of indomethacin on the enzyme was similar to the moderate inhibition noted for other glutathione transferases. In general, the inhibition of glutathione transferases can be explained by a random-order sequential mechanism, in which indomethacin acts as a competitive inhibitor with respect to the electrophilic substrate. In the specific case of glutathione transferase 4-4 with CDNB as substrate, indomethacin binds to enzyme-CDNB and enzyme-CDNB-GSH complexes with an even greater affinity than to the corresponding complexes lacking CDNB. Under presumed physiological conditions with low concentrations of electrophilic substrates, indomethacin is not specific for glutathione transferase 4-4 and may inhibit all forms of glutathione transferase.
Glutathione-S-transferase class Omega (GSTO 1-1) belongs to a new subfamily of GSTs, which is identical with human monomethylarsonic acid (MMA(V)) reductase, the rate limiting enzyme for biotransformation of inorganic arsenic, environmental carcinogen. Recombinant GSTO 1-1 variants (Ala140Asp and Thr217Asn) were functionally characterized using representative substrates. No significant difference was observed in GST activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, whereas thioltransferase activity was decreased to 75% (Ala140Asp) and 40% (Thr217Asn) of the wild-type GSTO 1-1. For MMA(V) reductase activity, the Ala140Asp variant exhibited similar kinetics to wild type, while the Thr217Asn variant had lower Vmax (56%) and Km (64%) values than the wild-type enzyme. The different activities of the enzyme variants may influence both the intracellular thiol status and arsenic biotransformation. This can help explain the variation between individuals in their susceptibility to oxidative stress and inorganic arsenic.
Glutathione S-transferase AA from rat liver was purified to apparent homogeneity as judged by gel filtration and gel electrofocusing. The protein has an isoelectric point near pH 9.9 and a molecular weight of 45,000 and is composed of two apparently identical subunits. The enzyme is most active with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and glutathione as substrates. The catalytic properties of transferase AA are very similar to those of transferase B although the two proteins differ in their ability to bind bilirubin and other ligands, in their amino acid composition, and in their immunological properties. When mixtures of transferase AA with other purified glutathione S-transferases were denatured in 6 m guanidine hydrochloride and then renatured by dilution, no hybrids were formed as judged by gel electrofocusing. Isolation of the enzymes from a single rat liver revealed the presence of each of the known glutathione transferases.
Glutathione transferases (GSTs) of a novel class, which it is proposed to term Theta, were purified from rat and human liver. Two, named GST 5-5 and GST 12-12, were obtained from the rat, and one, named GST theta, was from the human. Unlike other mammalian GSTs they lack activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and are not retained by GSH affinity matrices. Only GST 5-5 retains full activity during purification, and its activities towards the substrates 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)propane, p-nitrobenzyl chloride, p-nitrophenethyl bromide, cumene hydroperoxide, dichloromethane and DNA hydroperoxide are 185, 86, 67, 42, 11 and 0.03 mumol/min per mg of protein respectively. Earlier preparations of GST 5-5 or GST E were probably a mixture of GST 5-5 and GST 12-12, which was largely inactive, and may also have been contaminated by less than 1% with another GSH peroxidase of far greater activity. Partial analysis of primary structure shows that subunits 5, 12 and theta are related to each other, particularly at the N-terminus, where 25 of 27 residues are identical, but have little relationship to the Alpha, Mu and Pi classes of mammalian GSTs. They do, however, show some relatedness to subunit I of Drosophila melanogaster [Toung, Hsieh & Tu (1990) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 87, 31-35] and the dichloromethane dehalogenase of Methylobacterium DM4 [La Roche & Leisinger (1990) J. Bacteriol, 172, 164-171].
The rate of protein S-nitrosylation, a reversible process by which S-nitroso thiol (RS-NO) compounds exchange the NO+ moiety with protein SH groups, is essentially governed by two factors, the pK alpha and the accessibility of the protein sulfhydryl. A useful method of following transnitrosation kinetics of various protein and nonprotein SH compounds with GS-NO is described. When the reaction is carried out in the presence of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and glutathione transferases, the rate of RS-NO formation (RSH + GS-NO-->RS-NO + GSH) can be monitored by spectrophotometry at 340 nm in terms of the enzymatic conversion of GSH to a GS conjugate. Unlike methods based on NO release from the S-NO bond, this procedure is rapid and accurate and requires relatively small amounts of thiols. The second order rate constants of S-nitrosylation of human and rat oxy- and deoxyhemoglobin of BSA and other thiols were calculated by this method which confirmed previous results reported in the literature.
P-170 glycoprotein, glutathione and glutathione S-transferases are important in in vitro drug resistance, but their clinical relevance is unclear. Therefore glutathione content, glutathione S-transferase enzyme activity, isoenzyme composition as well as P-170 glycoprotein level were studied in metastases of malignant melanomas of thirteen patients. P-170 glycoprotein and glutathione S-transferases were quantified by immunoblotting with monoclonal antibodies, glutathione S-transferase enzyme activity was measured with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate, and glutathione was assayed by HPLC. Glutathione and glutathione S-transferase enzyme activity were measurable in all samples and mean values were 40+/-7 nmol/mg protein (mean+/-SEM; range: 13-98) and 310+/-72 nmol/min mg protein (range: 15-819), respectively. Glutathione S-transferases present were mainly of class pi (2817+/-402 ng/mg protein); class alpha enzymes were detectable only in one case in low amounts (71 ng/mg protein), and class mu transferases were present in 5 out of the 13 samples (38%; 391+/-206 ng/mg protein). The P-170 glycoprotein plasma membrane located drug efflux pump was found in 8 out of 12 samples (67%). In three samples values were much higher as compared to the other specimens. In the metastatic melanoma of one patient, both high levels of glutathione S-transferase and P-170 glycoprotein were found. Further studies are necessary to reveal whether melanoma tissues containing high levels of P-170 glycoprotein, glutathione S-transferases or a combination of both systems do respond differently towards anti-cancer drug treatment.
Abstract We investigated the pattern of glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity in the course of the development of Apis mellifera macedonica. GST activity is present in all developmental stages of A. mellifera macedonica. The highest activity towards the substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) is found in the adult stage and the lowest in the egg. The kinetic characteristics of the whole enzyme change as the insect develops. Significant changes are observed in substrate specificity, inhibitor sensitivity and Vmax. The number of isoenzymes and their rate of expression vary as the insect develops. However, two main isoenzymes are present in all developmental stages, one in the alkaline area and the other in the acidic. While in the larval stage the acidic isoenzyme is expressed at a slightly higher rate (52.2% over 47.8% for the alkaline isoenzyme), in the adult stage, the rate is reversed dramatically (13.24% and 84.2%, respectively).
Abstract 5-Oxo-7-glutathionyl-8,11,14-eicosatrienoic acid (FOG7), a biologically active glutathione (GSH) adduct of the eicosanoid 5-oxo-eicosatrienoic acid (5-oxoETE), is the major metabolite formed within the murine peritoneal macrophage. The conjugation of GSH to electrophilic 5-oxoETE in vitro was found to be catalyzed by both soluble glutathioneS-transferase and membrane-bound leukotriene C4(LTC4) synthase. The cytosolic glutathioneS-transferase-catalyzed products were not biologically active; however, the adduct formed from recombinant LTC4synthase had identical mass spectrometric properties and biological activity to the macrophage-derived FOG7. The biosynthesis of FOG7 in the macrophage was inhibited by MK-886, a known inhibitor of LTC4 synthase, suggesting that this nuclear membrane-bound enzyme might be responsible for GSH conjugation to 5-oxoETE in the intact cell. Subcellular fractionation revealed that the microsomal fraction from the murine macrophage contained the enzyme responsible for FOG7biosynthesis. Western blot analysis confirmed the presence of LTC4 synthase in the microsomal fraction that did not catalyze conjugation of GSH to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, indicating an absence of microsomal glutathioneS- transferase activity. These results suggest that LTC4 synthase, thought to be specific for the conjugation of GSH to LTA4, can also recognize 5-oxoETE as an electrophilic substrate.
Glutathione transferase (GST) epsilon (also known as GST2 or GST B1B1), the major Class Alpha GST in human liver has been subjected to oligonucleotide-directed site-specific mutagenesis. Four arginine residues, R13, R20, R69 and R187, of which all but R69 are strictly conserved through GST Classes Alpha, Mu and Pi have been replaced by Ala. The mutant enzymes have been expressed in Escherichia coli, purified by affinity chromatography and characterised. Compared with the wild-type enzyme, all mutant GSTs had altered catalytic properties. All mutants had decreased specific activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). Mutants R13A, R69A and R187A also showed decreased activities with other substrates such as cumene hydroperoxide (CuOOH) and androstenedione. In contrast, mutant R20A had an increased peroxidase activity and an isomerase activity essentially the same as that of the wild-type GST. With the substrates used, kcat./Km values were decreased for all mutant GSTs. Increases in the [S0.5] values were most significant for glutathione (GSH), while values for CDNB and CuOOH were less markedly affected. Thus, various kinetic data indicate that the GSH affinity has been reduced by the mutations and that this loss of affinity is linked to the decreased specific activities. Inhibition studies showed an increased sensitivity towards S-hexyl-GSH; this was particularly marked for mutant R69A. Mutant R20A had a lowered [I50] value but, in contrast, also the highest [I80] value as compared with the wild-type enzyme. Towards bromosulphophthalein, mutants R20A and R69A had a markedly increased sensitivity, about 35-fold in comparison with the wild-type. The inhibition properties of mutant R187A were similar to those of the wild-type enzyme and the properties of mutant R13A were in between. The increased sensitivity to S-hexyl-GSH, in contrast with the decreased affinity for GSH, was suggested to be due to an altered distribution between conformational states of the enzyme induced by the mutations. The arginine residues in positions 13, 20 and 69 all seem to be important for the catalytic properties of GST. Further, the inhibition studies indicate a role of arginine residues in the stabilisation of conformational states of the enzyme.
Depletion of hepatic glutathione in male rats by starvation caused a significant increase in microsomal glutathione S-transferase activity, which was not affected by acute ethanol pretreatment. An additional depletion in fasted rats by diethylmaleate (0.5 g/kg) caused a further increase in the enzyme activity, but this increase was delayed in ethanol intoxicated rats. Although ethanol caused a small increase in hepatic microsomal lipid peroxidation in control animals, this effect of ethanol was not observed in diethylmaleate treated rats and thus was apparently not responsible for the delay in enzyme activation. It is suggested that the activation of microsomal glutathione S-transferase activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in glutathione-depleted rat liver may be produced by changes in thiol/disulfid ratio and/or some reactive oxygen species.
Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats injected with 45 mg STZ/kg rapidly developed the classical symptoms of diabetes which persisted throughout the 90 day test period. Serum ketone concentrations in control and STZ-treated rats were within normal limits. Diabetic animals exhibited depressed cytochrome P-450 content as well as decreased activities of benzphetamine N-demethylase, styrene oxide hydrolase, UDP-glucuronosyltransferase toward 1-naphthol and testosterone, and glutathione S-transferase toward ethacrynic acid, sulfobromophthalein (BSP) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). STZ-treated rats given 0.025 ml carbon tetrachloride (CCl/sub 4/)/kg had even greater decreases in enzyme activities toward benzphetamine, styrene oxide, CDNB, BSP, 1-naphthol and diethylstilbestrol. Similar changes were observed in normal rats given 0.4 ml CCl/sub 4//kg. In other STZ-treated rats, bromobenzene (0.5 ml/kg) did not depress enzyme activity toward these substrates. In normal rats, this same dose of bromobenzene produced decreased activities toward benzphetamine, styrene oxide, ethacrynic acid, and estrone, but increased activities toward 1-naphthol and diethylstilbestrol. Thus, diabetes potentiated the damaging effects of CCl/sub 4/, but not those of bromobenzene, on these hepatic biotransformation reactions.
The glutathione S-transferase (GST)-dependent conjugation of reduced glutathione (GSH) with leukotriene A4 (LTA4)-methyl ester in rodent and human skin was investigated. Incubation of [3H]LTA4-methyl ester (1 nmole, approximately 200,000 dpm) with cytosol prepared from rat, mouse and human skin or with affinity purified GST from rat skin cytosol in the presence of GSH resulted in the formation of LTC4-methyl ester. Maximum enzyme activity was observed in rat skin followed by mouse and human skin. With heat-denatured cytosol or in the absence of GSH, the product formation was negligible. GST purified from rat skin cytosol by GSH-agarose affinity chromatography exhibited a several-fold increase in the specific activity of enzyme with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (55-fold), ethacrynic acid (67-fold) and LTA4-methyl ester (12-fold) as substrates. Western blot analysis of the affinity purified GST indicated a predominant expression of the Pi class of GST isozyme followed by Mu and Alpha classes of isozymes. The formation of LTC4-methyl ester was established by its radioactivity profile on high pressure liquid chromatography and absorption spectroscopy. These results suggest that, in addition to xenobiotic metabolism, cutaneous GSTs may also be capable of metabolizing physiological substrates such as LTA4.
Human glutathione transferase A1-1 (GST A1-1) has a flexible C-terminal segment that forms a helix (alpha 9) closing the active site upon binding of glutathione and a small electrophilic substrate such as 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). In the absence of active-site ligands, the C-terminal segment is not fixed in one position and is not detectable in the crystal structure. A key residue in the alpha 9-helix is Phe 220, which can interact with both the enzyme-bound glutathione and the second substrate, and possibly guide the reactants into the transition state. Mutation of Phe 220 into Ala and Thr was shown to reduce the catalytic efficiency of GST A1-1. The mutation of an additional residue, Phe 222, caused further decrease in activity. The presence of a viscosogen in the reaction medium decreased the kinetic parameters K(cat) and K(cat)/K(m) for the conjugation of CDNB catalyzed by wild-type GST A1-1, in agreement with the view that product release is rate limiting for the substrate-saturated enzyme. The mutations cause a decrease of the viscosity dependence of both kinetic parameters, indicating that the motion of the alpha 9-helix is linked to catalysis in wild-type GST A1-1. The isomerization reaction with the alternative substrate Delta(5)-androstene-3,17-dione (AD) is affected in a similar manner by the viscosogens. The transition state energy of the isomerization reaction, like that of the CDNB conjugation, is lowered by Phe 220 as indicated by the effects of the mutations on K(cat)/K(m). The results demonstrate that Phe 220 and Phe 222, in the dynamic C-terminal segment, influence rate-determining steps in the catalytic mechanism of both the substitution and the isomerization reactions.
Abstract Glutathione transferases (GSTs) are a family of multifunctional enzymes involved in xenobiotic biotransformation, drug metabolism, and protection against oxidative damage. The p38b mitogen-activated protein kinase is involved in cellular stress response. This study screened interactions between Drosophila melanogaster Meigen (Diptera: Drosophilidae) Delta class glutathione transferases (DmGSTs) and the D. melanogaster p38b MAPK. Therefore, 12 DmGSTs and p38b kinase were obtained as recombinant proteins. The study showed that DmGSTD8 and DmGSTD11b significantly increased p38b activity toward ATF2 and jun, which are transcription factor substrates. DmGSTD3 and DmGSTD5 moderately increased p38b activity for jun. In addition, GST activity in the presence of p38b was also measured. It was found that p38b affected substrate specificity toward CDNB (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene) and DCNB (1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene) of several GST isoforms, i.e., DmGSTD2, DmGSTD5, DmGSTD8, and DmGSTD11b. The interaction of a GST and p38b can affect the substrate specificity of either enzyme, which suggests induced conformational changes affecting catalysis. Similar interactions do not occur for all the Delta enzymes and p38b, which suggests that these interactions could be specific.
Under standard assay conditions, with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as electrophilic substrate, rat glutathione transferase 4-4 is strongly inhibited (I50 = 1 PM) by indomethacin. No other glutathione transferase investigated is significantly inhibited by micromolar concentrations of indomethacin. Paradoxically, the strong inhibition of glutathione transferase 44 was dependent on high (millimolar) concentrations of CDNB; at low concentrations of this substrate or with other substrates the effect of indomethacin on the enzyme was similar to the moderate inhibition noted for other glutathione transferases. In general, the inhibition of glutathione transferases can be explained by a random-order sequential mechanism, in which indomethacin acts as a competitive inhibitor with respect to the electrophilic substrate. In the specific case of glutathione transferase 4-4 with CDNB as substrate, indomethacin binds to enzyme-CDNB and enzyme-CDNB-GSH complexes with an even greater affinity than to the corresponding complexes lacking CDNB. Under presumed physiological conditions with low concentrations of electrophilic substrates, indomethacin is not specific for glutathione transferase 4-4 and may inhibit all forms of glutathione transferase.
Glutathione transferases (GSTs) are a family of multifunctional enzymes involved in xenobiotic biotransformation, drug metabolism, and protection against oxidative damage. The p38b mitogen-activated protein kinase is involved in cellular stress response. This study screened interactions between Drosophila melanogaster Meigen (Diptera: Drosophilidae) Delta class glutathione transferases (DmGSTs) and the D. melanogaster p38b MAPK. Therefore, 12 DmGSTs and p38b kinase were obtained as recombinant proteins. The study showed that DmGSTD8 and DmGSTD11b significantly increased p38b activity toward ATF2 and jun, which are transcription factor substrates. DmGSTD3 and DmGSTD5 moderately increased p38b activity for jun. In addition, GST activity in the presence of p38b was also measured. It was found that p38b affected substrate specificity toward CDNB (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene) and DCNB (1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene) of several GST isoforms, i.e., DmGSTD2, DmGSTD5, DmGSTD8, and DmGSTD11b. The interaction of a GST and p38b can affect the substrate specificity of either enzyme, which suggests induced conformational changes affecting catalysis. Similar interactions do not occur for all the Delta enzymes and p38b, which suggests that these interactions could be specific.
We are interested in elucidating the interaction of GST with the D. melanogaster p38b kinase. An in vitro kinase assay was used to measure p38b activity in the presence and absence of GST in order to determine substrate specificity changes toward two kinase substrates, ATF2 and jun. Kinase effects on GST activity toward two classical GST substrates, CDNB (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene) and DCNB (1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene) were also studied. Our data showed interactions occurred between several GST isoforms and p38b kinase.
Glutathione functions to scavenge oxidants or xenobiotics by covalently binding them and transporting the resulting metabolites through an adenosine 5′-triphosphate-dependent transport system. It has been reported that the intracellular concentration of glutathione decreases in diabetes mellitus. In order to elucidate the physiological significance and the regulation of anti-oxidants in diabetic patients, changes in the activity of the glutathione-synthesizing enzyme, γ-glutamylcysteine synthetase, and transport of thiol [S-(2,4-dinitrophenyl)glutathione] were studied in erythrocytes from patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes and K562 cells cultured with 27 mmol/l glucose for 7 days. The activity of γ-glutamylcysteine synthetase, the concentration of glutathione, and the thiol transport were 77%, 77% and 69%, respectively in erythrocytes from diabetic patients compared to normal control subjects. Treatment of patients with an antidiabetic agent for 6 months resulted in the restoration of γ-glutamylcysteine synthetase activity, the concentration of glutathione, and the thiol transport. A similar impairment of glutathione metabolism was observed in K562 cells with high glucose levels. The cytotoxicity by a xenobiotic (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene) was higher in K562 cells with high glucose than in control subjects (50% of inhibitory concentration. 300±24 Μmol/l vs 840±29 Μmol/l, p<0.01). Expression of γ-glutamylcysteine synthetase protein was augmented in K562 cells with high glucose, while enzymatic activity and expression of mRNA were lower than those in the control subjects. These results suggest that inactivation of glutathione synthesis and thiol transport in diabetic patients increases the sensitivity of the cells to oxidative stresses, and these changes may lead to the development of some complications in diabetes mellitus.
Abstract ::: Secretory mutants (sec1, sec6) of Saccharomyces cerevisiae accumulate large pools of secretory vesicles at the restrictive temperature (37 degrees C) because of a block in the delivery of vesicles to the cell surface. We report that secretory vesicles isolated from sec mutants exhibit ATP-dependent uptake of two classes of organic anions that are substrates for the canalicular carriers of mammalian liver. Transport of the bile acid taurocholate (TC) and the glutathione conjugate of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (GS-DNP) into vesicles was temperature dependent and saturable and required ATP and Mg2+. Estimates of Km and Vmax were 177 microM and 1.2 nmol.min-1.mg-1 and 262 microM and 0.53 nmol.min-1.mg-1 for TC and GS-DNP, respectively. TC and GS-DNP did not complete for transport. TC transport was sensitive to vanadate and 4,4'-diisothiocyanostilbene-2,2'-disulfonate, inhibited by glycocholate, and retained partial activity when UTP and GTP, but not nonhydrolyzable ATP analogues, replaced ATP. Dissipation of the electrochemical potential with a nitrate buffer and ionophores partially decreased (30-40%) the transport of both anions. Direct testing of the influence of membrane potential was performed in sec6-4 mutants, in which the expression of electrogenic [H+]ATPase activity is reduced by > 85% in glucose-containing medium. Vesicles from sec6-4 retained full activity for ATP-dependent TC and GS-DNP transport. These results indicate that the transporters operate independently of the membrane potential and that ATP is required. These findings reveal that yeast possess separate ATP-dependent transport mechanisms for elimination of bile acids and glutathione conjugates. The mechanisms are functionally similar to those present in mammalian systems.
The effect of heating on rat liver microsomal glutathione S-transferase activity was investigated. The microsomal glutathione S-transferase activity increased with an elevation of temperature and reached a maximal level at 50 degrees C for 30 min, at which point the enhancement was 2.6-fold. The microsomal glutathione S-transferase activity had one low Km value for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene at room temperature. However, two Km values were observed in heated microsomes. N-Ethylmaleimide increased microsomal glutathione S-transferase activity 7.7-fold and a 2.5-fold increase in the activity was observed even after heating of microsomes at 55 degrees C for 10 min. On the other hand, there was no additional activation in the heated-microsomal glutathione S-transferase by glutathione disulfide or diamide with glutathione. The increased activity of the microsomal glutathione S-transferase activity is activated by heating through a mechanism different from the activation caused by sulfhydryl reagents.
The objective of this study was to characterize rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) gill epithelial cells in primary culture by evaluating their ability to maintain glutathione and glucuronide conjugating enzymes. The activity and inducibility of the phase II enzymes was investigated as a function of culture time. Glutathione S-transferase (GST) and UDP-glucuronyltransferase (UDPGT) enzyme activities were measured in freshly isolated cells and in cells cultured for 7 and 12 days. GST activity, determined with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, decreased gradually to 72% after 7 days and to 38% after 12 days in culture compared with freshly isolated cells. There was no significant difference between UDPGT activities in freshly isolated cells compared with cells cultured up to 12 days although a transient decrease in activity was observed at day 7. In vitro induction of the enzymes was studied using beta-naphtoflavone (BNF) and 3-methylcholanthrene (3-MC) as inducers. GST activity increased 2-fold after exposure to BNF and 1.5-fold after 3-MC exposure for 48 h in 7 days old cultures. No induction was observed in 12 days old cultures. UDPGT activity was not induced either at day 7 or 12.
Abstract The GST cDNA was successfully cloned from an Oryza sativa cDNA library by PCR using oligonucleotide primers based on the Os GSTU5 (GenBank Accession No. AF309377) sequence. The cDNA was composed of a 687-bp open reading frame encoding for 228 amino acids. The deduced amino acid sequence of this gene shared over 60% sequence identity with the sequences of the tau class Zm GSTU6 and Zm GSTU19. This gene was expressed in Escherichia coli with the pET vector system and the gene product was purified to homogeneity by GSH–Sepharose affinity column chromatography. The expressed Os GSTU5 formed a homo-dimer composed of 25 kDa subunit and its p I value was approximately 7.5. The Os GSTU5 displays high activities towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 1,2-epoxy-3-( p -nitrophenoxy)propane. The activity of the Os GSTU5 was significantly inhibited by hematin and ethacrynic acid. The Os GSTU5 shows the highest activity towards chloro- s -triazine and acetanilide herbicides.
The kinetic properties of the glutathione (GSH) peroxidase activities of GSH S-transferases YcYfetus and YcYc were compared. The catalytic efficiency of the fetal iso-enzyme with cumene hydroperoxide as substrate was approximately four times higher than the other. The effects of the non-substrate ligand rose-Bengal as well as the substrate ligands sulphobromophthalein and acrolein on the GSH peroxidase activity of these two iso-enzymes were also investigated. Depending on the ligand, the inhibition profiles of these two iso-enzymes when measured with either the peroxidase substrate, cumene hydroperoxide or the standard GSH S-transferase substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene were found to be either very similar (sulphobromophthalein) or markedly different (rose Bengal and acrolein). Significantly, the GSH peroxidase activity of the fetal iso-enzyme was far less susceptible to inhibition by the teratogen, acrolein, than that of the YcYc isoenzyme. It is therefore attractive to suggest that should a similar situation arise in vivo, this resistance to peroxidase inhibition may play a role in preventing the fetotoxic effects of acrolein.
Allergic contact dermatitis is an unpleasant, sometimes even painful disease of great clinical relevance. Contact sensitizers are low molecular weight compounds that activate antigen-presenting dendritic cells (DCs) in the skin (so-called Langerhans cells, LCs) and thus a delayed-type immune response can occur. Our approach was to identify putative biomarkers of high predictive value in separating contact allergens from irritants and in reflecting their allergenic potency. As recently shown some of these compounds can induce activation of the Keap1-Nrf2-ARE signaling pathway, one major cytoprotective pathway in cells stressed by chemicals or oxidants. In our studies we used the well characterized monocytic THP-1 cell line as surrogate for LCs. Through immunoblotting we were able to confirm that known contact allergens such as cinnamic aldehyde (CA) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB), but no irritants such as Sodium Dodecyl Sulfate (SDS), triggered the activation of Nrf2 and subsequent expression of its target genes in THP-1 cells. We found a time- and dose-dependent upregulation of heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1). Importantly, moderate doses of CA (i.e. 20 iM) caused only a temporal increase in HO-1 protein levels, while higher oncentrations (i.e. 40 iM) that still lacked significant cytotoxicity, led to a steadily increasing HO-1 protein expression level over a 24 h period. Applying a proteomics based strategy we were able to identify several proteins that are significantly upregulated after treatment with CA, some of them known to be regulated through Nrf2. Currently we evaluate the significance of our results by analyzing cellular signaling pathways in primary human monocyte-derived LCs.
Abstract Potential mechanisms of resistance to azinphosmethyl, an organophosphate insecticide, were examined in five field populations of the tufted apple bud moth Platynota idaeusalis (Walker). Adult male moths from resistant and susceptible populations were collected on sex pheromone traps and analyzed for glutathione transferase, general carboxylesterase, and cytochrome P 450 monooxygenase activity. Kinetics and inhibition profiles for acetylcholinesterase were also compared among populations. Significant intra- and interpopulation variation was demonstrated in these detoxification enzyme systems, but no resistance correlation was found to carboxylesterases, cytochrome P 450 monooxygenases, or glutathione transferase using the substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene or for acetylcholinesterase activity. However, elevated glutathione transferase activity toward the model substrate 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene was consistently associated with azinphosmethyl resistance.
S-Nitrosylation is a reversible post-translational modification on cysteinyl thiols that can modulate the function of redox-sensitive proteins. The S-nitrosylation of mitochondrial proteins has been shown to regulate various mitochondrial activities involved in energy-transducing systems and mitochondrion-driven apoptosis. In isolated rat brain mitochondria, we demonstrate that mitochondrial protein S-nitrosylation is regulated by respiratory substrates (glutamate/malate) through a thiol-dependent pathway. Mitochondrial proteins become susceptible to S-nitrosoglutathione (GSNO)-induced S-nitrosylation in mitochondria with an oxidized environment (low glutathione (GSH), NADH, and NADPH, and high GSSG, NAD+, and NADP+) caused by isolation of mitochondria using a discontinuous Percoll gradient. Activation of mitochondrial respiration by respiratory substrates leads to increased NAD(P)H and GSH levels, which in turn reduces mitochondrial S-nitrosylated proteins. 1-Chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), which depletes mitochondrial GSH and inhibits the thioredoxin–thioredoxin reductase system, prevented the denitrosylation of mitochondrial proteins caused by respiratory substrate treatment. Using biotin-switch coupled with LC-MS/MS, several mitochondrial proteins were identified as targets of S-nitrosylation including adenine nucleotide translocase (ANT) and voltage-dependent anion channel (VDAC), important components of the mitochondria permeability transition pore (MPTP), as well as ATP synthase. The S-nitrosylation of ATP synthase by GSNO was found to inhibit its activity. These findings emphasize the importance of respiratory substrates in regulating S-nitrosylation through a thiol-dependent (GSH and/or thioredoxin) pathway, with implications for mitochondrial bioenergetics and mitochondrion-driven apoptosis.
Abstract 1. 1. The assay conditions for glutathione- S -transferase (GST) 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) conjugation and cumene hydroperoxide (cumOOH) reduction were optimized in three lepidopteran insect species. 2. 2. The K m for CDNB was 4.1 × 10 −4 M, 7.0 × 10 −4 M and 2.1 × 10 −3 M for Trichoplusia ni, Spodoptera eridania and Papilio polyxenes , respectively. In that order of insect species, the K m for cumOOH was 2.3 × 10 −3 M, 3.8 × 10 −3 M and 4.8 × 10 −2 M 3. 3. Despite high K m s, the V max for both CDNB and cumOOH were high in P. polyxenes , suggesting either a high enzyme concentration or catalytic power represented by the turnover number, K cat . 4. 4. GST's conjugative activity was in the order of 0.24, 0.09 and 3.19 units in T. ni, S. eridania and P. polyxenes , respectively (1 unit = 1 μmol CDNB conjugated mg protein −1 min −1 at 25°C). 5. 5. The peroxidase activity of GST was high in these insects; 50, 106 and 253 units, respectively, in T. ni, S. eridania and P. polyxenes (1 unit = 1 nmol NADPH oxidized mg protein −1 min −1 at 25°C). 6. 6. The high GST's peroxidase activity apparently remedies the minor activity in these insects of the Se-dependent glutathione peroxidase.
Abstract The effects of microsomal enzyme inducers on glutathione S -transferase (GST) isoenzymes were studied in livers of rats and hamsters using three hypolipidemic drugs of the peroxisome proliferator type and the two model substances phenobarbital (PB) and 3-methylcholanthrene (MC). The effects were investigated by immunoblot analysis of the various GST subunits using polyclonal antibodies directed to rat subunits 1–4. In untreated animals the subunit composition was different, with hamsters having a much higher content of class mu isoenzymes. Administration of all three hypolipidemic drugs reduced the protein concentration of both alpha and mu class GSTs in rats but reduced only class mu subunits in hamsters. This reduction was in good agreement with the decreased activity observed with the broad-spectrum substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) in both species. As expected, PB and MC increased GST activity together with the concentration of subunits 1 and 3 in rats. In hamsters, PB significantly increased subunit 1 and slightly reduced subunits 3 and 4, although this decrease was not significant. Total GST, measured with CDNB, was reduced by 17%. In contrast, MC slightly decreased subunit 1 and markedly raised subunits 3 and 4, resulting in a net increase in total GST activity. All drugs increased relative liver weight, microsomal protein concentration and total P450 in both species; in contrast, total cytosolic proteins were raised by all drugs in rats but not in hamsters, except for MC. The results obtained in these two species show that GST activity is not always increased by microsomal enzyme inducers. The response may depend in part on isoenzyme profile, and varies with the subunit considered.
Abstract Glutathione S-transferase from human placenta has been purified with a simple and rapid method. The protein has an acidic isoelectric point (pI 4.65) and a molecular weight of 45,000, and is composed of two subunits. Evidence for the existence of two active forms, interconvertible by treatment with disulfide reducing agents, has been obtained on disc gel electrophoresis. Its amino acid composition is quite similar to that of erythrocyte glutathione S-transferase. The steady-state kinetics follow Michaelis-Menten kinetics and the conjugation reaction with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene displays a random sequential mechanism. The purified enzyme is not able to catalyze the reduction of organic hydroperoxides. Bilirubin and sulfobromophthalein competitively inhibit transferase activity. The effect of sulfhydryl reagent was also studied.
Abstract Glutathione transferase (GST) of diamondback moth larvae was purified >30-fold by affinity chromatography following ammonium sulfate fractionation. Subsequent cation-exchange chromatography yielded two electrophoretically homogenous isozymes, GST-2 (p l 8.2, subunit M A 23.6 kDa) and GST-3 (p l > 8.2, subunit M A 26.5 kDa); a third isozyme, GST-1 (p l M A 27.1 kDa), was only partially purified. GST-3 exhibited apparent substrate preference for 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, methyl parathion, parathion, and paraoxon, while GST-2 had much higher activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene; both GST-1 and GST-3 showed significantly higher activity toward 4-nitrophenyl acetate than GST-2. All three GST isozymes appeared to be aryltransferase for the only product observed in parathion, methyl parathion, and paraoxon conjugation was S -4-nitrophenyl glutathione. Both susceptible and methyl parathion-resistant diamondback moth larvae appeared to have the same profile but different proportions of these three GST isozymes.
Abstract The effect of an 8 day liquid diet containing 7% v/v ethanol and the effect of ethanol withdrawal on several drug metabolizing enzyme activities, cytochrome P -450 content and glutathione S -transferase activity (GST) has been studied in male C57/BL mice. After treatment, hepatic microsomal activities toward benzphetamine (BNZ), biphenyl (BPH) and dimethylnitrosamine (DMN) and cytosolic GST activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) were determined. Ethanol treatment caused a differential time dependent increase in the metabolism of the 4 xenobiotics. Increased BPH-4-hydroxylase activity correlated most closely with that of the increased concentration of hepatic P -450. That is, both values were increased (5.8-fold) over controls after 8 days of ethanol treatment. Ethanol withdrawal (24 h) resulted in a 46% reduction in the P -450 content and a 26% reduction in BPH-4-hydroxylase activity compared to the elevated values at day 8. By 48 h, the values were no different from controls. DNA- N -demethylase, BNZ- N -demethylase and GST activities all increased after 4 days of ethanol treatment and remained the same at 8 days. However, ethanol withdrawal resulted in differential time dependent changes in the activities towards BNZ, DMN, and CDNB. While DMN- N -demethylase activity returned to control activity within 24 h, BNZ- N -demethylase activity did not change for the first 24 h of withdrawal, but returned to control activity by 48 h. GST activity had not decreased by 48 h of withdrawal. These data suggest that ethanol induces several cytochrome P -450 isozymes that have a time difference in induction by ethanol and reduction following ethanol withdrawal. Furthermore, ethanol induction of GSTs occurs quickly (4 days) and remains elevated at least 48 h after ethanol withdrawal.
Human glutathione S-transferases (GST) can be distinguished according to their isoelectric point (pI); a distinction being made between «basic», «neutral», and «acidic» enzymes. These correspond to the three gene families α,μ and π. Isolation of these enzymes is generally performed by affinity chromatography on different sepharose matrices, using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as test substrate [1]
Abstract 5-Lipoxygenase-activating protein (FLAP) and leukotriene C4 (LTC4) synthase, two proteins involved in leukotriene biosynthesis, have been demonstrated to be 31% identical at the amino acid level. We have recently identified and characterized a novel member of the FLAP/LTC4 synthase gene family termed microsomal glutathione S-transferase II (microsomal GST-II). The open reading frame encodes a 16.6-kDa protein with a calculated pI of 10.4. Microsomal GST-II has 33% amino acid identity to FLAP, 44% amino acid identity to LTC4 synthase, and 11% amino acid identity to the previously characterized human microsomal GST (microsomal GST-I). Microsomal GST-II also has a similar hydrophobicity pattern to FLAP, LTC4 synthase, and microsomal GST-I. Fluorescent in situ hybridization mapped microsomal GST-II to chromosomal localization 4q28-31. Microsomal GST-II has a wide tissue distribution (at the mRNA level) and was specifically expressed in human liver, spleen, skeletal muscle, heart, adrenals, pancreas, prostate, testis, fetal liver, and fetal spleen. In contrast, microsomal GST-II mRNA expression was very low (when present) in lung, brain, placenta, and bone marrow. This differs from FLAP mRNA, which was detected in lung, various organs of the immune system, and peripheral blood leukocytes, and LTC4 synthase mRNA, which could not be detected in any tissues by Northern blot analysis. Microsomal GST-II and LTC4 synthase were expressed in a baculovirus insect cell system, and microsomes from Sf9 cells containing microsomal GST-II or LTC4 synthase were both found to catalyze the production of LTC4 from LTA4 and reduced glutathione. Microsomal GST-II also catalyzed the formation of another product, displaying a conjugated triene UV absorption spectra with a maximum at 283 nm, suggesting less catalytic stereospecificity compared with LTC4 synthase. Also, the apparent Km for LTA4 was higher for microsomal GST-II (41 μM) than LTC4 synthase (7 μM). In addition, unlike LTC4 synthase, microsomal GST-II was able to catalyze the conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene with reduced glutathione. Therefore, it is proposed that this novel membrane protein is a member of the microsomal glutathione S-transferase family, also including LTC4 synthase, with significant sequence identities to both LTC4 synthase and FLAP.
We have investigated the effects of perfluorooctane sulfonamide (PFOSA) on cellular functions and lipid homeostasis (including β-oxidation) in salmon primary hepatocytes. Salmon hepatocytes were exposed to PFOSA at 0 (control), 2, 20, and 50 μM for 12 and 24 h. Fatty acids (FAs) and lipids were determined by GC-MS; FA elongase (FAE), Δ5-desaturase (FAD5), Δ6-desaturase (FAD6), peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs), acyl coenzyme A (ACOX-1), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), catalase (CAT), and glutathione S-transferase (GST) mRNA were analyzed using qPCR. GST activity was analyzed by biochemical assays using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrate. Our data showed that PFOSA produced significant changes in FA composition that predominantly involved a decrease (at 12 h) and an increase (at 24 h) in FA methyl esters (FAMEs), MUFA, total PUFA, and (n-3 and n-6) PUFA. Particularly, an increase of α-linolenic acid (ALA; 18:3n-3), eicosapentaenoic acid [EPA; 20:5n-3], and arachidonic acid [ARA...
A glutathione S-transferase (GST) from Lactuca sativa was purified to electrophoretic homogeneity approximately 403-fold with a 9.6% activity yield by DEAE-Sephacel and glutathione (GSH)-Sepharose column chromatography. The molecular weight of the enzyme was determined to be approximately 23,000 by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and 48,000 by gel chromatography, indicating a homodimeric structure. The activity of the enzyme was significantly inhibited by S-hexylGSH and S-(2,4-dinitrophenyl) glutathione. The enzyme displayed activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, a general GST substrate and high activities towards ethacrynic acid. It also exhibited glutathione peroxidase activity toward cumene hydroperoxide.
The gene bphK of Burkholderia sp. strain LB400 has previously been shown to be located within the bph locus, which specifies the degradation of biphenyl (BP) and chlorobiphenyls, and to encode a glutathione S-transferase (GST) which accepts 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrate. The specific physiological role of this gene is not known. It is now shown that the gene is expressed in the parental organism and that GST activity is induced more than 20-fold by growth of the strain on BP relative to succinate when these compounds serve as sole carbon source. Approximately the same induction factor was observed for 2,3-dihydroxybiphenyl 1,2-dioxygenase activity, which is encoded by the 5'-adjacent bphC gene. This suggests that the expression of bphK is coregulated with the expression of genes responsible for the catabolism of BP. A bphK probe detected only a single copy of the gene in strain LB400. A spontaneous BP- mutant of the organism neither gave a signal with the bphK probe nor showed CDNB-accepting GST activity, suggesting that this activity is solely encoded by bphK. Complementation of the mutant with a bph gene cluster devoid of bphK restored the ability to grow on BP, indicating that bphK is not essential for utilization of this carbon source. BphK activity proved to be almost unaffected by up to 100-fold differences in proton concentration or ionic strength. The enzyme showed a narrow range with respect to a variety of widely used electrophilic GST substrates, accepting only CDNB. A number of established laboratory strains as well as novel isolates able to grow on BP as sole carbon and energy source were examined for BphK activity and the presence of a bphK analogue. CDNB assays, probe hybridizations and PCR showed that several, but not all, BP degraders possess this type of GST activity and/or a closely related gene. In all bacteria showing BphK activity, this was induced by growth on BP as sole carbon source, although activity levels differed by up to 10-fold after growth on BP and by up to 60-fold after growth on succinate. This resulted in a variation of induction factors between 2 and 30. In the majority of bphK+ bacteria examined, the gene appeared to be part of LB400-like bph gene clusters. DNA sequencing revealed almost complete identity of bphK genes from five different bph gene clusters. These results suggest that bphK genes, although not essential, fulfill a strain-specific function related to the utilization of BPs by their host organisms. The usefulness of BphK as a reporter enzyme for monitoring the expression of catabolic pathways is discussed.
Summary Glutathione functions to scavenge oxidants or xenobiotics by covalently binding them and transporting the resulting metabolites through an adenosine 5'-triphosphate-dependent transport system. It has been reported that the intracellular concentration of glutathione decreases in diabetes mellitus. In order to elucidate the physiological significance and the regulation of anti-oxidants in diabetic patients, changes in the activity of the glutathionesynthesizing enzyme, ),-glutamylcysteine synthetase, and transport of thiol [S-(2,4-dinitrophenyl)glutathione] were studied in erythrocytes from patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes and K562 cells cultured with 27 mmol/1 glucose for 7 days. The activity of ~,-glutamylcysteine synthetase, the concentration of glutathione, and the thiol transport were 77 %, 77 % and 69 %, respectively in erythrocytes from diabetic patients compared to normal control subjects. Treatment of patients with an antidiabetic agent for 6 months resulted in the restoration of Vglutamylcysteine synthetase activity, the concentration of glutathione, and the thiol transport. A similar impairment of glutathione metabolism was observed in K562 cells with high glucose levels. The cytotoxicity by a xenobiotic (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene) was higher in K562 cells with high glucose than in control subjects (50% of inhibitory concentration. 300 _+ 24 gmol/1 vs 840 + 29 ~mol/1, p < 0.01). Expres" sion of ?~-glutamylcysteine synthetase protein was augmented in K562 cells with high glucose, while enzymatic activity and expression of mRNA were lower than those in the control subjects. These results suggest that inactivation of glutathione synthesis and thiol transport in diabetic patients increases the sensitivity of the cells to oxidative stresses, and these changes may lead to the development of some complications in diabetes mellitus. [Diabetologia (1995) 38: 201-210] 
To determine whether the purified AN9 protein was a GST, we tested its ability to conjugate GSH to the "universal" substrate, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). Most but not all GSTs catalyze the conversion of CDNB to dinitrophenol-glutathione (DNP-GS), with a subsequent increase in absorbance at 340 nm (Holt et al., 1995; Marrs, 1996) . A comparison of crude extracts from induced E. coli cells demonstrated that cells containing the 6xHis-An9 construct had significant GST activity, whereas cells without this construct showed no significant increase over the nonenzymatic formation of DNP-GS (data not shown). In the presence of purified AN9, the rate of conversion of CDNB to DNP-GS was Ͼ10-fold higher than was the spontaneous formation of DNP-GS ( Figure 3C ). The estimated V max of AN9 was found to be 3.5 mol of CDNB conjugated per minute per milligram of protein, which is similar in magnitude to the activity found for other type I GSTs (Zettl et al., 1994; Holt et al., 1995).
In vitro assays for glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity were performed in triplicate on a SpectraMax 250 plate reader (Molecular Devices, Sunnyvale, CA). Purified enzyme was added to 1 mM glutathione in 1 ϫ PBS, pH 7.4. For the control reaction, an equal volume of 1 ϫ PBS, pH 7.4, was added in place of the enzyme extract. 1-Chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was added immediately before measurement to a final concentration of 1 mM in a 200-L reaction volume. Absorbance at 340 nm was used to measure the rate of conjugation over 30 min. The specific activity of purified AN9 was determined according to the method of Holt et al. (1995). Data are the mean of three replicates.
Based on the abovementioned characteristics of FK506, menthol, camphor, and MCE, we hypothesize that MCE can be used as the oil phase to develop FK506 MCE ME, which can promote the retention of FK506 in the skin, suppress its transient skin pruritus, and then facilitate its anti-AD efficacy. In this study, we fabricated 0.1% (w/w) FK506 MCE ME and MCE ME gel. The penetration of FK506 from different formulations through the rat skin in vitro was performed with Franz diffusion cell method. The safety of MCE ME to immortalized human keratinocytes (HaCaT) was evaluated. AD model was constructed with BALB/c mice treated with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB). The anti-AD and anti-pruritus efficacy was evaluated by the dermatitis score, transepidermal water loss (TEWL), histological analysis, IgE, scratch frequency, and SP.
FK506 is an effective topical drug for AD treatment. However, its efficiency is hampered by poor penetration into the skin and the onset of transient irritation symptoms in the applied skin. These challenges can be addressed by novel drug delivery systems. In this study, we developed a ME system for FK506 based on MCE, ie, FK506 MCE ME. The optimum MCE ME was demonstrated to have low cytotoxicity and enhance FK506 penetration into the skin in comparison with the commercial ointment. The treatment efficiency of FK506 Abbreviations: AD, atopic dermatitis; DNCB, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene; FK506, tacrolimus; Control, healthy mice with shaved dorsal region; DNCB, AD-induced mice without drug treatment; DNCB + PC, AD-induced mice treated with propylene carbonate containing 0.1% (w/v) FK506; DNCB + Ointment: AD-induced mice treated with commercial ointment containing 0.1% (w/w) FK506; DNCB + Oil free, AD-induced mice treated with Oil free containing 0.1% (w/v) FK506; DNCB + Vehicle, AD-induced mice treated with microemulsion based on menthol/camphor eutectic vehicle without FK506; DNCB + MCE ME, AD-induced mice treated with microemulsion based on menthol/camphor eutectic containing 0.1% (w/v) FK506; DNCB + MCE ME gel, AD-induced mice treated with microemulsion based on menthol/camphor eutectic gel containing 0.1% (w/w) FK506; SD, standard deviation.
ABSTRACT: S-Nitrosylation is a reversible post-translational modification on cysteinyl thiols that can modulate the function of redox-sensitive proteins. The S-nitrosylation of mitochondrial proteins has been shown to regulate various mitochondrial activities involved in energy-transducing systems and mitochondrion-driven apoptosis. In isolated rat brain mitochondria, we demonstrate that mitochondrial protein S-nitrosylation is regulated by respiratory substrates (glutamate/malate) through a thiol-dependent pathway. Mitochondrial proteins become susceptible to S-nitrosoglutathione (GSNO)-induced S-nitrosylation in mitochondria with an oxidized environment (low glutathione (GSH), NADH, and NADPH, and high GSSG, NAD + , and NADP + ) caused by isolation of mitochondria using a discontinuous Percoll gradient. Activation of mitochondrial respiration by respiratory substrates leads to increased NAD(P)H and GSH levels, which in turn reduces mitochondrial S-nitrosylated proteins. 1-Chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), which depletes mitochondrial GSH and inhibits the thioredoxin−thioredoxin reductase system, prevented the denitrosylation of mitochondrial proteins caused by respiratory substrate treatment. Using biotinswitch coupled with LC-MS/MS, several mitochondrial proteins were identified as targets of Snitrosylation including adenine nucleotide translocase (ANT) and voltage-dependent anion channel (VDAC), important components of the mitochondria permeability transition pore (MPTP), as well as ATP synthase. The S-nitrosylation of ATP synthase by GSNO was found to inhibit its activity. These findings emphasize the importance of respiratory substrates in regulating S-nitrosylation through a thiol-dependent (GSH and/or thioredoxin) pathway, with implications for mitochondrial bioenergetics and mitochondrion-driven apoptosis.
It has been reported that Nc/Nga mice develop dermatitis with depilation and hemorrhage when housed in conventional conditions but not in specific pathogenfree conditions (8) . This study investigated the protective effect of SYT on development of dermatitis in Nc/Nga mice that had been topically applied with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB). The effect of SYT on TARC production in a keratinocyte cell line, HaCaT, was also examined to elucidate a possible mechanistic basis for the anti-dermatitic effects of SYT.
A glutathione S-transferase (GST) from Lactuca sativa was purified to electrophoretic homogeneity approximately 403-fold with a 9.6% activity yield by DEAE-Sephacel and glutathione (GSH)-Sepharose column chromatography. The molecular weight of the enzyme was determined to be approximately 23,000 by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and 48,000 by gel chromatography, indicating a homodimeric structure. The activity of the enzyme was significantly inhibited by ShexylGSH and S-(2,4-dinitrophenyl) glutathione. The enzyme displayed activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, a general GST substrate and high activities towards ethacrynic acid. It also exhibited glutathione peroxidase activity toward cumene hydroperoxide.
The gene bphK of Burkholderia sp. strain LB400 has previously been shown to be located within the bph locus, which specifies the degradation of biphenyl (BP) and chlorobiphenyls, and to encode a glutathione S-transferase (GST) which accepts 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrate. The specific physiological role of this gene is not known. It is now shown that the gene is expressed in the parental organism and that GST activity is induced more than 20-fold by growth of the strain on BP relative to succinate when these compounds serve as sole carbon source. Approximately the same induction factor was observed for 2,3-dihydroxybiphenyl 1,2-dioxygenase activity, which is encoded by the 5'-adjacent bphC gene. This suggests that the expression of bphK is coregulated with the expression of genes responsible for the catabolism of BP. A bphK probe detected only a single copy of the gene in strain LB400. A spontaneous BP N mutant of the organism neither gave a signal with the bphK probe nor showed CDNB-accepting GST activity, suggesting that this activity is solely encoded by bphK. Complementation of the mutant with a bph gene cluster devoid of bphK restored the ability to grow on BP, indicating that bphK is not essential for utilization of this carbon source. BphK activity proved to be almost unaffected by up to 100-fold differences in proton concentration or ionic strength. The enzyme showed a narrow range with respect to a variety of widely used electrophilic GST substrates, accepting only CDNB. A number of established laboratory strains as well as novel isolates able to grow on BP as sole carbon and energy source were examined for BphK activity and the presence of a bphK analogue. CDNB assays, probe hybridizations and PCR showed that several, but not all, BP degraders possess this type of GST activity and/or a closely related gene. In all bacteria showing BphK activity, this was induced by growth on BP as sole carbon source, although activity levels differed by up to 10-fold after growth on BP and by up to 60-fold after growth on succinate. This resulted in a variation of induction factors between 2 and 30. In the majority of bphK M bacteria examined, the gene appeared to be part of LB400-like bph gene clusters. DNA sequencing revealed almost complete identity of bphK genes from five different bph gene clusters. These results suggest that bphK genes, although not essential, fulfil a strain-specific function related to the utilization of BPs by their host organisms. The usefulness of BphK as a reporter enzyme for monitoring the expression of catabolic pathways is discussed.
This study examined the effects of prolonged exposure to buthionine sulfoximine (BSO) on 1) the overall elimination pharmacokinetics of acetaminophen; 2) the sulfate and glucuronide conjugation processes primarily responsible for acetaminophen elimination; and 3) in vitro microsomal and cytoplasmic enzyme activities in rats. Rats imbibed drinking water containing 30 mM BSO for 6 days and then received an iv injection of acetaminophen, 150 mg/kg in a propylene glycol vehicle. Exposure to BSO, a specific inhibitor of gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase, produced marked depletion of glutathione (GSH) and resulted in induction of hepatic UDP-glucuronosyltransferase and GSH-S-transferase enzyme activities, but not cytochrome P-450. BSO pretreatment had no effect on the total or renal clearance of acetaminophen in rats. However, BSO exposure increased the partial clearance of acetaminophen to acetaminophen glucuronide by 47% (1.29 +/- 0.08 vs. 1.90 +/- 0.23 ml/min/kg; p less than 0.01) and significantly (p less than 0.02) increased the percentage of the dose recovered as the glucuronide conjugate from 17.6 +/- 2.5 to 26.5 +/- 0.6 The partial clearance of acetaminophen to acetaminophen sulfate was decreased, although not significantly, from 4.46 +/- 0.62 to 3.39 +/- 0.82 ml/min/kg. BSO treatment increased microsomal UDP-glucuronosyltransferase activity toward three xenobiotic aglycones, p-nitrophenol, 1-naphthol, and morphine by 308, 61, and 66%, respectively (p less than 0.05), but not toward testosterone or estrone. Cytosolic GSH-S-transferase activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was increased 52% by BSO, whereas p-nitrophenol sulfotransferase activity was not altered. Cytochrome P-450 concentration and monooxygenase activity were unchanged by BSO exposure.
Isoenzymes of glutathione S-transferase (GST) in adult Adalia bipunctata, an aphidophagous predator, were studied. Cytosolic GST activity was studied in each beetle developmental stage. The highest activities towards both 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and 2,4-dinitro-1-iodobenzene (DNIB) occurred in adults. The enzyme distribution was investigated in adults. While most of the enzymatic activity was found in the abdomen (40–50 and 34–63% respectively) using several concentrations of both CDNB and DNIB, significant differences were observed for the head and the thorax depending on the substrate. Activities were more abundant in the thorax with DNIB (37–47%) compared to the 13–19% obtained with CDNB. Some GST activity was also detected in the elytra. GSTs were purified by epoxy-activated Sepharose 6B affinity chromatography and applied to an HPLC column to determine the native molecular weight (69 kDa). Three isoenzymes were separated by chromatofocusing at pH ranges 7–4. Three bands with molecular mass from 23 to 26 kDa were visualised on SDS-PAGE. Their isoelectric points were 6.66, 6.36, and 6.21. The substrate specificities and the kinetic parameters (Vm and Km) of the isoenzymes showed large differences depending on the isoenzyme. Arch. Insect Biochem. Physiol. 49:158–166, 2002. © 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
Abstract The combination of proteomic approach and affinity chromatography (GSTrap™ HP) has been used to identify and investigate the differential expression of GSTs under toxic challenge and during the course of development in Aedes albopictus. There were multiple isoforms of glutathione transferases (GSTs) expressed in the three developmental stages of Aedes albopictus. On a 2D gel map, the results indicate that there were 19 spots with a molecular mass in the range of 24–30 kDa. Three types of GSTs were identified from the spots; namely GSTS1, GSTD1, and GST Theta. Spots identified as GSTS1 and GSTD1 were further designated as GSTS1–1 to GSTS1–5 and GSTD1–1 to GSTD1–13 respectively. Isoforms GSTD1–10, GSTD1–11, GSTD1–12, GSTD1–13, and GSTT were absent in the adult life stage. Isoenzymes GSTS1–3, GSTD1–2, and GSTD1–6 appeared as the major expressed isoforms in all the life stages. The effect of free radical generators such as hydrogen peroxide and paraquat on the expression of the GST isoforms in larvae mosquitoes was also investigated. Isoforms GSTD1–1, GSTD1–4, GSTS1–4, and GSTD1–12 had > 1.5 fold increase when the larvae were challenged with both chemicals. GSTS1–3, GSTS1–4, GSTD1–1, GSTD1–2, GSTD1–3, GSTD1–6, and GSTD1–12 were significantly expressed (p 1.5 fold change when the larvae were challenged with hydrogen peroxide. On the contrary, different GST isoforms were responsive towards paraquat challenge. Those isoforms were GSTS1–2, GSTS1–4, GSTD1–1, GSTD1–5, GSTD1–9, GSTD1–11, GSTD1–12, and GSTT (with > 1.5 fold change). The purified larvae GSTs seemed to have limited substrate specificities with the ability to only conjugate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB). The GSTs have however shown that they were capable of detoxifying lipid peroxidation products and possessing glutathione peroxidase activities.
The present study investigated the effects of azuki bean (Vigna angularis) extract (VAE) on the progress of atopic dermatitis (AD)-like skin lesions in NC/Nga mice induced by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. The efficacy of VAE in NC/Nga mice was determined by measuring gross and histological skin lesions, serum IgE levels, eosinophil ratio in peripheral leucocytes, and mRNA expression levels of interleukin (IL)-4, tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-α and interferon (IFN)-γ in splenocytes. Continuous ingestion of VAE inhibited the development of the AD-like skin lesions in a dose-dependent manner. In the VAE-treated mice, the numbers of mast cells in the skin, eosinophil ratio in peripheral leucocytes, relative mRNA expression of inflammatory cytokines in the spleen, and serum IgE levels were significantly reduced. Results suggest that VAE can inhibit the development of AD-like skin lesions in NC/Nga mice by regulating immune mediators and cells, and may be an effective alternative therapy for AD.
The in vitro interaction of 3,4,5,6-tetrachloro-1,2-benzoquinone (o-chloranil) with rat liver glutathione S-transferases (GST) was studied, using reduced glutathione (GSH) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrates. o-Chloranil inhibited the GST activity in crude extracts in a dose dependent manner, while 3,6-dichloro-2,5-dihydroxy-1,4-benzoquinone did not. Each of the GST isoenzymes was inhibited, albeit at different degrees. Kinetic studies never revealed competitive inhibition kinetics, with GSH nor CDNB as the variable substrate. Titration of remaining GSH in appropriate incubation mixtures indicated a minor spontaneous conjugation of o-chloranil with GSH, which was not enzymatically activated. It is concluded that o-chloranil interact with GST by direct binding to these proteins. This binding could have a protective function against o-chloranil.
Substrate binding and the subsequent reaction are the two principal phenomena that underlie the activity of enzymes, and many enzyme-like catalysts were generated based on the phenomena. The single chain variable region fragment of antibody 2F3 (scFv2F3) was elicited against hapten GSH-S-DN2phBu, a conjugate of glutathione (GSH), butyl alcohol, and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB); it can therefore bind both GSH and CDNB, the substrates of native glutathione S-transferases (GSTs). It was shown previously that there is a serine residue that is the catalytic group of GST in the CDR regions of scFv2F3 close to the sulfhydryl of GSH. Thus, we anticipated that scFv2F3 will display GST activity. The experimental results showed that scFv2F3 indeed displayed GST activity that is equivalent to the rat-class GST T-2-2 and exhibited pH- and temperature-dependent catalytic activity. Steady-state kinetic studies showed that the Km values for the substrates are close to those of native GSTs, indicating that scFv2F3 has strong affinities for the substrates. Compared with some other GSTs, its kcat value was found to be low, which could be caused by the similarity between the GSH-S-DN2phBu and the reaction product of GSH and CDNB. These results showed that our approach to imitating enzymes is correct, which is that an active site may catalyze a chemical reaction when a catalytic group locates beside a substrate-binding site of a receptor. It is important to consider product inhibition in hapten design in order to obtain a mimic with a high catalytic efficiency.
GSH transferase P1-1 (GSTP1-1) was modified with group-specific reagents. Kinetic experiments demonstrated that inactivation of GSTP1-1 occurred upon reaction of one arginine residue per subunit with diacetyl, one lysine residue per subunit with 2,4,6-trinitrobenzene sulphonate, or one carboxylate group per subunit with 1-ethyl-3-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)carbodiimide. All three inactivation reactions were inhibited by compounds known to bind at the GSH site of the enzyme but were unaffected by the electrophile 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. N-terminal sequence analysis showed that Arg-13 was modified by diacetyl and that this modification was inhibited by GSH. Arg-11 was not modified. The lysine residue modified by 2,4,6-trinitrobenzene sulphonate and protected by S-octylglutathione was identified as Lys-44 by sequencing of tryptic peptides. The findings are in agreement with the involvement of Arg-13 and Lys-44 in binding of GSH, as determined from the crystal structure [Reinemer, Dirr, Ladenstein, Huber, Lo Bello, Frederici and Parker (1992) J. Mol. Biol. 227, 214-226]. The present data also implicate a single carboxylate in GSH binding, consistent with the involvement of Asp-98 of subunit B determined from the crystallographic study. The GSH-binding determinants of GSTP1-1 are compared using sequence similarity with those of GSTs of Alpha, Mu and Theta classes.
The in vitro effect of ascorbyl esters (ascorbyl-stearate [As-S] and -palmitate [As-P]) and interferon (recombinant human interferon-a2b [rHuIFN-a2b]) on human glioma (U-373) cell proliferation, viability and glutathione-S-transferase (GST) activity was studied. The effect of As-S, As-P and rHuIFN-a2b on cell proliferation and viability was evaluated by [3H] Thymidine incorporation and colorimetric MTT assays, respectively. Incubation of glioma cells with As-S, As-P or rHuIFN-a2b for 24 h resulted in a dose dependent inhibition of cell proliferation (IC50 = 68.0 microM As-S, 86.0 microM As-P and 47.3 Units/ml rHuIFN-a2b), and moderate decrease of cell viability. It was found that As-S was a more efficient inhibitor of cell proliferation, viability and GST activity than As-P. GST from U-373 cells was purified. The activity of purified GST towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was inhibited in a dose dependent manner by ascorbyl esters (I-50 = 27.5 microM As-S and 56.0 microM As-P) but not by rHuIFN-a2b. GST activity of cytosol isolated from U-373 cells which were previously treated with As-S (150 microM) or rHuIFN-a2b (150 units/ml) for 0, 2, 5, 10, 20 and 30 min was sharply decreased during 5 to 10 min of treatment and increased at longer durations of treatment.
Aflatoxin B1(AFB1)-glutathione(GSH) conjugation is the major pathway for the detoxification of aflatoxin metabolites. This reaction is catalysed by GSH S-transferase (GST) and play a major role in modulation of AFB1 adduct formation to nuclear DNA. Changes recorded in hepatic GST activity during development of rats can alter the balance between AFB1-GSH conjugation and AFB1-DNA adduct formation. Measurment of cytosolic GST using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as the substrate showed that the enzyme activity is initially lower in weanling tissues as compared to that of adults. But nevertheless hepatic and renal cytosolic GST activity is increased significantly in growing rats pretreated with AFB1. Kinetic studies of AFB1-GSH conjugate formation in kidneys and livers of the two-age groups of rats treated with a single i.p. dose of AFB1 (400 μg/kg b.w.) revealed that at the end of 24 h of AFB1 administration the rate of the conjugate formation in kidneys of immature rats was approximately twice of that measured in adults. Age-related differences in the GST activity as well as AFB1-GSH conjugation was more pronounced in kidneys. The conjugate formation in kidneys of growing rats during 6–24 h following AFB1 administration shows that urinary excretion of aflatoxin metabolites is relatively rapid in growing rats. The major portion of the AFB1-GSH is formed in liver but contribution of the renal tissue to the formation of detoxification metabolites can not be ruled out. These data demonstrate that aflatoxin metabolites are eliminated more efficiently from kidneys of a growing rat. AFB1-induced GST induction in renal tissues of growing animals during 24 h of the carcinogen administration could be considered as an important mechanism for GSH conjugate formation and aflatoxin detoxification. Therefore GST induction in response to hepatotoxic drugs can confer resistance to young animals being exposed for the first time to such drugs. It is also worthmentioning that the GST activity measured before AFB1 administration does not reflect the rate of AFB1 detoxification via GSH conjugation.
Chemical-induced respiratory allergy poses significant challenges for the toxicologist and regulator, not least because there are, as yet, no validated or widely accepted methods available for the identification of chemicals that have the potential to cause respiratory sensitization. This may be attributable to the fact that there remains uncertainty about the complete mechanisms through which respiratory sensitization to chemicals can be acquired. Toxicological assessment of most xenobiotics mainly relies on in vivo animal tests, having their economical and ethical drawbacks. Therefore an in vitro screening model for the identification of respiratory allergens is needed. Besides the choice of an appropriate cell model, it is also important to study relevant mechanisms and derive endpoints in the context of respiratory sensitization. For this purpose, transcriptomics, proteomics, and metabolomics are promising tools to better understand the underlying molecular and biological mechanisms through which allergic sensitization to chemicals is induced and regulated. ::: The major goal of this thesis was to investigate the alterations in gene expression of human bronchial (BEAS-2B) and alveolar (A549) epithelial cells, and THP-1 macrophages after exposure to respiratory sensitizers and respiratory non-sensitizing chemicals, and to identify genes that are able to discriminate between both groups of compounds. ::: The cells were exposed during 6, 10, and 24 hours to the respiratory sensitizers ammonium hexachloroplatinate IV, hexamethylene diisocyanate, and trimellitic anhydride, the irritants acrolein and methyl salicylate, and the skin sensitizer 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene at subcytotoxic levels. Overall changes in gene expression were evaluated using Agilent Whole Human Genome 4x44K oligonucleotide arrays. In each cell model, a Fisher Linear Discriminant Analysis was used to obtain a ranking of genes that reflected the potential to discriminate between respiratory sensitizers and respiratory non-sensitizing chemicals. In a first attempt to develop an in vitro respiratory sensitization assay, the 20 most discriminative genes that were able to distinguish between both groups of chemicals were discussed for each cell model. However, the exact role of these marker genes in the respiratory sensitization process and how they are influenced in vivo after exposure to respiratory allergens is yet unknown, and it is likely that different pathways are involved in sensitization of the respiratory tract. Secondly, the 1000 most discriminating genes for each cell model were used to identify canonical pathways which may contribute to a better understanding of the underlying mechanisms of respiratory sensitization. Using pathway analysis, platelet-derived growth factor signaling was found as being a possible important pathway involved in the respiratory sensitization process in THP-1 macrophages. Within the BEAS-2B cell model, the phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) signaling pathway was identified and might be specific for respiratory sensitization. None of the canonical signaling pathways activated in A549 cells were specific for respiratory sensitization. ::: In conclusion, this study demonstrated the feasibility and utility of transcriptomics approaches to identify selective markers that can discriminate respiratory sensitizers from respiratory nonsensitizers. Canonical pathways which might be specific for respiratory sensitization were identified. For the development of an in vitro assay for respiratory sensitization, these findings will need to be expanded using a larger set of chemicals, with priority on gene expression studies and analysis of mechanisms of respiratory sensitization in the BEAS-2B cell model.
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE ::: Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a multifactorial skin condition with complex interactions of innate and adaptive immune responses. There are several existing therapies for AD, including topical glucocorticosteroids, emollients, phototherapies, calcineurin inhibitors and immunosuppressants, such as cyclosporine A. Although these therapies reduce inflammation, they also cause serious side effects. Therefore, it is necessary to develop new therapeutic approaches for AD treatment without side effects. There are several studies on natural materials or toxins, such as herbs, ginseng extract and snake venom, for AD treatment. However, treatment of AD with bee venom and its major component, melittin has rarely been studied. ::: ::: ::: EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH ::: Effects of bee venom and melittin were studied in a model of AD in vivo induced by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB) in female Balb/c mice and in cultures of human keratinocytes, stimulated by TNF-α/IFN-γ. The potential pharmacological effects of bee venom and melittin on these in vivo and in vitro AD-like skin disease models were studied. ::: ::: ::: KEY RESULTS ::: Bee venom and melittin exhibited potent anti-atopic activities, shown by decreased AD-like skin lesions, induced by DNCB in mice. In vitro studies using TNF-α/IFN-γ-stimulated human keratinocytes showed that bee venom and melittin inhibited the increased expression of chemokines, such as CCL17 and CCL22, and pro-inflammatory cytokines, including IL-1β, IL-6 and IFN-γ, through the blockade of the NF-κB and STAT signalling pathways. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS ::: Our results suggest that bee venom and melittin would be suitable for epicutaneous application, as topical administration is often appropriate for the treatment of AD.
Experiments were conducted to determine if food intake and adrenalectomy influenced abnormal antioxidant defense mechanisms observed in obese mice. Paired male C57BL/6J mice of two genotypes, obese (ob/ob) and lean (+/?), were fed a nonpurified diet ad libitum or restricted (2.5 g/d) until 3 mo old. Obese mice had larger livers and kidneys but smaller brains than lean mice. Plasma ceruloplasmin activity of obese mice was 240% of that of lean mice. Restricting food intake but not adrenalectomy reduced this difference, but ceruloplasmin activity of obese mice was still 150% of that of restricted-fed lean mice. Glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) activity in liver of obese mice was 70% of that in control lean mice; however, in kidney GSH-Px activity was 135% of that in obese mice. Both liver and kidney GSH-Px differences were eliminated by food restriction but not by adrenalectomy. Blood and brain GSH-Px activity was not influenced by the mutation. Liver and kidney copper-zinc superoxide dismutase activity was lower in obese mice than in lean littermates, 30 and 20%, respectively. Food restriction eliminated this difference in liver but not in kidney. Glutathione S-transferase activity using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate was 55% lower in liver (not kidney) of obese mice than in lean mice and this difference was not markedly influenced by food restriction. Obese mice have marked changes in the steady-state activities of a number of protective enzymes that are organ dependent and, in part, due to the hyperphagia associated with this mutation.
The three-dimensional structures of a class mu glutathione transferase in complex with a transition-state analogue, 1-(S-glutathionyl)-2,4,6-trinitrocyclohexadienate, and a product, 1-(S-glutathionyl)-2,4-dinitrobenzene, of a nucleophilic aromatic substitution (S N Ar) reaction have been determined at 1.9- and 2.0-A resolution, respectively. The two structures represent snapshots along the reaction coordinate for the enzyme-catalyzed reaction of glutathione with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and reveal specific interactions between the enzyme, intermediate, and product that are important in catalysis. The geometries of the intermediate and product are used to postulate reaction coordinate motion during catalysis
BACKGROUND ::: The diamondback moth (DBM), Plutella xylostella, is one of the most harmful insect pests on crucifer crops worldwide. In this study, 19 cDNAs encoding glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) were identified from the genomic and transcriptomic database for DBM (KONAGAbase) and further characterized. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Phylogenetic analysis showed that the 19 GSTs were classified into six different cytosolic classes, including four in delta, six in epsilon, three in omega, two in sigma, one in theta and one in zeta. Two GSTs were unclassified. RT-PCR analysis revealed that most GST genes were expressed in all developmental stages, with higher expression in the larval stages. Six DBM GSTs were expressed at the highest levels in the midgut tissue. Twelve purified recombinant GSTs showed varied enzymatic properties towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and glutathione, whereas rPxGSTo2, rPxGSTz1 and rPxGSTu2 had no activity. Real-time quantitative PCR revealed that expression levels of the 19 DBM GST genes were varied and changed after exposure to acephate, indoxacarb, beta-cypermethrin and spinosad. PxGSTd3 was significantly overexpressed, while PxGSTe3 and PxGSTs2 were significantly downregulated by all four insecticide exposures. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: The changes in DBM GST gene expression levels exposed to different insecticides indicate that they may play individual roles in tolerance to insecticides and xenobiotics.
The following substrates are considered in some detail: 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, the electrophile derived metabolically from paracetamol N-acetyliminoquinone?), benzo(a)pyrene-4-5-oxide, cholesterol-5a,6a-oxide, benzo(a)pyrene-7,8-diol-9,10-oxide and the electrophiles derived metabolically from aflatoxin B, (the 2,3-oxide?). According to the substrate, optimal enzyme rates vary over seven orders of magnitude from 10-1 to 10-12 mole/min/mg.
Chemicals SQV was kindly supplied by HoffmanLaRoche Inc. (Nutley, NJ, U.S.A.). Rhodamine 123 (Rho123), ketoconazole (KCZ), cyclosporin A (CsA), Glucose-6-phosphate (G6P), G6P dehydrogenase (G6PDH) and nicotineamide adenosine dinucleotide phosphate (NADP) were obtained from Sigma Chemicals (St. Louis, MO, U.S.A.). Testosterone, 1-naphtol, 4-methylumbelliferone (4-MU) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) were purchased from Nacalai tesque (Kyoto, Japan). Ethanol and all other reagents used were of analytical grade and were used without further purification.
Effects of bee venom and melittin were studied in a model of AD in vivo induced by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB) in female Balb/c mice and in cultures of human keratinocytes, stimulated by TNF-α/IFN-γ. The potential pharmacological effects of bee venom and melittin on these in vivo and in vitro AD-like skin disease models were studied.
AD, atopic dermatitis; CCK, cell counting kit; DNCB, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene; EMSA, electrophoretic mobility shift assay; RBC, red blood cell; STAT, signal transducer and activator of transcription; Th cell, helper T cell; TSLP, thymic stromal lymphopoietin
Therefore, the present study was designed to determine the effect of bee venom and melittin in an AD-like model. Consequently, this study investigated the potential pharmacological effects of bee venom and its major component, melittin, on two models of AD, that induced by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB) in vivo and that induced by TNF-α/IFN-γ in human keratinocyte cultures.
Male reproductive organs are extremely sensitive to the negative influence of toxic environmental factors as well as drugs, and until now not many attempts have been made at studying the detoxication enzymes and the relationship between the activity of those enzymes and spermatozoa fertility. In the present work we studied cytosolic glutathione-S-transferases (GST, EC 2.5.1.18) from different parts (head, corpus and tail) of bull and boar epididymis. We isolated two molecular forms of GST from each part of epididymis, characterized their biochemical properties and examined the mechanism of the catalyzed reaction. On the basis of their substrate specificity and isoelectric point, the isoforms were found to belong to the near neutral GST class mi. All examined GST forms exhibited higher affinity towards GSH than towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and bull epididymis GST forms showed biphasic Lineweaver-Burk double reciprocal curves in the presence of GSH as a variable substrate. Boar epididymis anionic GST had the –SH groups both in the GSH and the CDNB binding place, whereas the cationic GST form — arginine residues in the CDNB binding place. Bull epididymis GST forms contained neither thiol nor arginine residues essential for catalytic activity.
Objectives: The goals of the present study were to determine whether human endometrium contains glutathione S-transferases (GSTs), to identify the isoforms present (if any) and to assess the causes of any intersubject variability which was observed. Method: Hysterectomy patients (n = 32, 13 with endometrial carcinoma) were examined in the core study. The ability of cytosol from these endometria to conjugate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was measured. Additional studies with chemical inhibitors and monoclonal antibodies to GSTπ were also performed. Results: The pattern of inhibition caused by ethacrynic acid and cibacron blue strongly suggests substantial interindividual variability in type (α and π dominant) and amount (∼10-fold) of this important group of enzymes. Significantly lower GST activity was seen in cancer patients who were smokers when compared with all other subjects (p < 0.05). Conclusion: There are substantial interindividual differences in the GST content of human endometrium. Furthermore, lower GST activity in tissues from endometrial carcinoma patients with a history of smoking may have contributed to the neoplastic transformation of this tissue.
Bacteria were isolated from chemically-contaminated soil and the isolates were screened for glutathione S-transferase (GST) expression by spraying with monochlorobimane. The isolate with the most promising GST activity was later identified as Acinetobacter calcoacticus Y1 based on its 16S rRNA gene sequence. ::: By using affinity chromatography, A. calcoaceticus Y1 putative GST (AcGST) was successfully purified and expressed GST subunit with molecular weight estimated at 23 kDa when analysed on sodium dodecyl sulphate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE). The purified protein was then further analysed by using two-dimensional electrophoresis where two putative GST isozymes were identified and designated as AcGST-1 and AcGST-2. Upon isoelectric focusing, AcGST-1 and AcGST-2 were found to be in pI values of 4.5 and 6.2 respectively. AcGST-1 and AcGST-2 were purified by using carboxylmethyl (CM) and diethylaminoethyl (DEAE) ion exchange chromatography respectively. AcGST-1 was reactive towards ethacrynic acid (EA) (24.99 ± 1.24 μmol/min/mg), hydrogen peroxide (3.93 ± 0.32 μmol/min/mg), 1-Chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) (0.61 ± 0.12 μmol/min/mg), 2,4-heptadienal (0.11 ± 0.03 μmol/min/mg), trans-2-octenal (0.08 ± 0.02 μmol/min/mg), and hexadienal (0.04 ± 0.003 μmol/min/mg) whereas AcGST-2 was reactive towards EA (15.87 ± 2.54 μmol/min/mg ), CDNB (0.54 ± 0.13 μmol/min/mg), 2,4-heptadienal (0.08 ± 0.01 μmol/min/mg), and trans-2-octenal (0.09 ± 0.01 μmol/min/mg). The substrate specificities of both putative GST isozymes were different and therefore suggesting they were of two existing homodimers. ::: For AcGST-1, the Vmax for EA and GSH were estimated as 3.74 ± 1.40 μmol/min and 1.46 ± 0.02 μmol/min, Km for EA and GSH were estimated as 0.28 ± 0.02 mM and 0.01 ± 0.0003 mM. Whereas for AcGST-2, the Vmax for EA and GSH were estimated as 8.41 ± 1.08 μmol/min and 1.35 ± 0.01 μmol/min, Km for EA and GSH were estimated as 0.28 ± 0.002 mM and 0.02 ± 0.003 mM. ::: From thin layer chromatography to determine the reactivity of both putative GST isozymes towards Isoproturon, Fenoxaprop-ethyl, Propoxur and Clodinafop-propargyl, only AcGST-2 showed conjugation activity towards Isoproturon, a pesticide. Disc diffusion test indicated that Bromophos, Malathione, DDT, Propoxur, Permethin, Chlorpyrifos, Fenitrothion did not affect the propagation of A. calcoaecticus Y1 but hydrogen peroxide inhibited the propagation of A. calcoaceticus Y1. Based on our result, zone of inhibition at 25 % of hydrogen peroxide was smaller compared with 50 % of hydrogen peroxide suggesting some degree of tolerance of A. calcoaceticus Y1 towards hydrogen peroxide.
The endogenous estrogens are important modulators of the immune system and its functions. However, their effects are rather complex and many aspects have not been studied. In this study, we used the 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB)-induced contact dermatitis as a disease model and investigated the effect of estriol (E3), along with two other estrogens, 17b-estradiol and estrone, on the pathogenesis of contact hypersensitivity. A series of parameters, such as ear swelling, skin inflammation, antigen-specific immunoglobulins, and lymphocyte compositions in peripheral lymphoid organs, were evaluated in mice following development of contact dermatitis. We found that administration of all three estrogens elicited strong inhibition of DNCB-induced dermatitis, while E3 exerted the strongest suppressive effect. Administration of E3 alleviated dermatitis, and this effect was accompanied by decreases in serum DNCB-specific immunoglobulins, such as IgA, IgG1, IgG2a, and IgG2b. Besides, treatment with E3 reduced B cell population, especially IgG-producing cells in the peripheral lymphoid organs following the induction of dermatitis. These observations consistently suggest that the antibody (Ab)-mediated humoral immune reactions play a critical role in the pathogenesis of DNCB-induced contact dermatitis. The results from this study demonstrate, for the first time, that estrogen administration has a strong suppressive effect on the pathogenesis of contact dermatitis. These findings offer important insights concerning the pathogenic role of antigen-specific Abs in contact dermatitis and the treatment of chemical-induced, Ab-mediated skin hypersensitivity reactions in humans.
Rat hepatic GST 7-7 expression in cytosol and in the S-hexylglutathione-agarose affinity purified fraction of cytosol from saline- (control) and pyrrole-treated animals was examined using metabolic activity, SDS-PAGE, immunoblot, and HPLC analyses. Metabolic activity of hepatic cytosol from pyrrole-treated animals was assayed using the substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, ethacrynic acid, and acrolein, and an approximately 1.5-, 1.2-, and 1.3-fold increase, respectively, was monitored in the rate of GST-catalyzed substrate conjugation to reduced glutathione. SDS-PAGE and immunoblot analysis using Class Pi GST-specific IgG confirmed that the GST 7 subunit was expressed in hepatic cytosol and in the affinity purified fractions from pyrrole-treated rats. In contrast, the GST 7 subunit was below the limit of detection in hepatic cytosol of saline-treated animals. HPLC analysis demonstrated the presence of the GST 7 subunit in the affinity purified fraction from pyrrole-treated rat hepatic tissue and showed that the level of this subunit was increased approximately 8-fold relative to the barely detectable level present in control tissue. N-terminal amino acid sequencing analysis confirmed the identity of the HPLC peak as GST 7-7. GST subunits 3, 1a, and 1b were elevated approximately 1.7-, 2.0-, and 2.4-fold respectively, in response to pyrrole treatment. These data provide evidence that pyrrole treatment results in de novo expression of GST 7-7 in rat hepatic tissue and suggest that pyrrole-containing compounds potentially generated during disease and/or altered heme metabolism, or those ingested in food products, may alter GST expression in hepatic tissue.
The role of glutathione in protecting prostaglandin (PG) generation after exposure of fibroblasts to oxidant stress was investigated. Exposure of 3T3 fibroblasts to H2O2, followed by washing and then 20 microM arachidonic acid, caused a dose-dependent decrease in PG synthesis as assessed by radioimmunoassay. PGE2 production decreased from 3.7 +/- 1.1 to 0.15 +/- 0.04 pmol/microgram protein, and prostacyclin (PGI2) formation decreased from 0.56 +/- 0.03 to 0.06 +/- 0.03 pmol/microgram protein after exposure to 200 microM H2O2. Decreasing intracellular glutathione with 50 micrograms/ml 1,3-bis(chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU) enhanced the H2O2-induced decrease in PGE2 synthesis. Another glutathione-depleting agent, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), also potentiated the H2O2-induced decrease in PGE2 formation. However, although PGI2 production was decreased by H2O2, neither BCNU nor CDNB potentiated this decrease. Without oxidant stress, extreme glutathione depletion decreased PGE2 synthesis and caused PGI2 synthesis to exceed PGE2. In summary, oxidant stress decreases both PGE2 and PGI2 formation. However, the primary effect of decreasing cell glutathione during oxidant stress is a reduction in PGE2 formation, not PGI2. This implies that the predominant effect of glutathione depletion during oxidant stress is on the PGE2 isomerase(s) and not PGH synthase or PGI2 synthase.
Abstract Walker 256 rat mammary carcinoma cells resistant to chlorambucil (WR) exhibited an approximate 4-fold increase in glutathione S -transferase (GST) activity using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as compared to the sensitive parent cell line (WS). WR cells maintained without biannual exposure to chlorambucil (WR r ) reverted to the sensitive phenotype and possessed GST levels equivalent to WS. Mitochondria, microsomes and cytosol were isolated from WS, WR and WR r cell lines and analyzed for their GST composition. GST activity in each subcellular compartment of resistant cells was increased over the sensitive cells. Antibodies raised against total rat liver cytosolic GST crossreacted in resistant cells with two microsomal proteins (25.7 kD and 29 kD). The 29 kD protein was not detected in microsomal fractions from either WS or WR r and this protein was found to be dissimilar from cytosolic GST subunits in its isoelectric point (pI 6.7) and migration on two-dimensional polyacrylamide gels. In addition, the 29 kD microsome-associated GST from WR cells was immunologically distinct from a 14 kD GST subunit previously identified in rat liver microsomes. These data implicate the induction of a specific microsomal GST subunit in WR cells following drug selection and suggest its potential involvement in the establishment of cellular resistance to chlorambucil.
Brugia filarial nematodes are pathogenic lymphatic-dwelling parasites that, like other helminths, may modify the host's defense mechanisms by a major detoxification process involving glutathione-binding proteins such as glutathione S-transferases (GSTs). In the present study, soluble extracts of third-stage larvae, adult male and female worms, microfilariae of either B. pahangi or B. malayi or the adult worm excretory–secretory products of B. malayi were used to determine GST activity. These extracts and affinity-purified fractions of B. pahangi adult worms had a specific enzymatic activity when 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was used as a substrate. The observance of this enzyme in all life cycle stages of Brugia spp. demonstrates its ubiquitous nature. Lavage of intraperitoneally infected jirds, but not that of uninfected jirds, also showed increased enzymatic activity, suggesting that GST is secreted in vivo. Soluble proteins of both Brugia spp. were strongly recognized by antibodies in sera from rabbits immunized with affinity-purified native GST of Onchocerca volvulus. Immunohistochemical studies localized these proteins in adult worms, demonstrating cross-reactivity between the GST of these two filarial nematodes. The effect of this enzyme on the motility and viability of adult worms, microfilariae, and larvae was tested in vitro using a battery of known GST inhibitors. Of all those tested, ethacrynic acid, N-ethylmalemide, 4-nitropyridine-oxide, or 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene at micromolar concentrations reduced the viability and motility of microfilariae, third-stage larvae, and adult worms. These results suggest that Brugia GSTs are major metabolic enzymes and may play an important role in the parasite's survival.
The export of leukotriene (LT) C4 from human eosinophils, a carrier-mediated process that is temperature-dependent and saturable, was characterized further in eosinophils and in two human leukemia cell lines that do not present an intact 5-lipoxygenase pathway. In eosinophils, KG-1 cells, and dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO)-differentiated HL-60 cells, the respective Q10 values for temperature-dependent LTC4 export were 3.7, 3.3, and 3.4 and for energy of activation were 28.2 kcal/mol, 23.0 kcal/mol, and 27.8 kcal/mol (1 kcal = 4.18 kJ). When human eosinophils, KG-1 cells, and DMSO-differentiated HL-60 cells were preloaded with defined amounts of intracellular LTC4 by incubation with LTA4 and with incremental amounts of a glutathione conjugate, S-dinitrophenyl glutathione (GS-DNP) by sequential incubation with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, GS-DNP inhibited the export of LTC4 in a dose-dependent manner. By plotting the ratio of total GS-DNP (cell retained plus released) to the sum of total GS-DNP plus total LTC4 against the percentage inhibition of LTC4 release, IC40 values of 0.839, 0.803, and 0.841 were obtained for eosinophils, KG-1 cells, and DMSO-differentiated HL-60 cells, respectively. When cells preloaded with LTC4 were resuspended in incremental concentrations of the organic acid transport inhibitor, probenecid, there was a dose-dependent decrease in LTC4 release; GS-DNP and probenecid inhibited LTC4 release in a cumulative fashion, whereas neither inhibited the release of LTB4 from preloaded nondifferentiated HL-60 cells. Therefore, LTC4 export from cells of bone marrow origin occurs through a probenecid-sensitive membrane carrier shared by other glutathione conjugates and distinct from the LTB4 carrier export system.
Drug metabolising enzymes and transporters play a critical role in the pharmacokinetics and hence, absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion (ADME) of compounds and medicines. The objective of this thesis was to apply in vitro systems used in ADME studies to investigate interactions of pure compounds isolated from plants and of antiparasitic drugs with drug metabolising enzymes and transporters. In addition, drug metabolising enzymes and ::: ::: transporters are often studied in isolation and though this is simpler, the two biological systems are often coupled, thus, the Caco-2 cell line was also used to study enzyme-transporter coupling. Simple in vitro experimental systems were also compared to complex in vitro and in vivo systems. ::: ::: In this study, the inhibitory effects of 19 purified compounds isolated from plants, including diospyrin, geshoidin, and some flavonoids, on cytochrome P450s (CYPs) 1A2, 3A4, 2C9, 2C19 and 2D6 and glutathione transferases (GSTs) A1-1, M1-1 and P1-1, as well as p-glycoprotein (Pgp), was investigated in vitro. The effect of 21 antiparasitic drugs, such as chloroquine, cycloguanil and amodiaquine, on Pgp was also investigated. ::: ::: Inhibition of heterologously expressed human CYPs and GSTs was investigated using spectrophotometric, fluorescence and liquid chromatography-based assays. Eleven out of the 19 ::: ::: plant compounds inhibited at least one of the GSTs. Diospyrin was the most potent inhibitor with IC50 values in the range 0.1 - 0.5 I¼M. Diospyrin and geshoidin were further investigated and it was found that the predominant mode of GST inhibition was noncompetitive with respect to both glutathione (GSH) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). Diospyrin, however, competitively inhibited A1-1 and M1-1 with respect to GSH and geshoidin displayed mixed inhibition toward A1-1 with respect to GSH. The Ki values for diospyrin with respect to both GSH and CDNB were in the range 0.08â€“0.6 I¼M and those for geshoidin were in the range 16â€“ 173 I¼M. Diospyrin and geshoidin were also found to inactivate GSTP1-1 with diospyrin being a potent inactivator with KI of 0.7 I¼M, whereas geshoidin had a KI of 47 I¼M. Eight of the 19 plant ::: ::: compounds inhibited at least one of the CYPs. Diospyrin was found once again to be the most potent inhibitor with IC50 values in the range 0.4 - 2 I¼M. Diospyrin showed mixed inhibition toward CYPs 3A4, 2C9 and 2D6, with Ki values in the range 0.25 â€“ 2 I¼M. For CYP1A2, the inhibition was non competitive with Ki 0.8 I¼M, compared to mixed inhibition of rat recombinant CYP1A with Ki 0.34 I¼M. Diospyrin was further investigated for its in vivo CYP1A inhibition properties in rats, and no evidence for in vivo CYP1A inhibition was found. ::: ::: The plant compounds and antiparasitic drugs were screened for interaction with Pgp based on inhibition of Pgp mediated [3H]-taxol transport in Caco-2 cells. Bidirectional transport of selected inhibitors was further evaluated to identify potential Pgp substrates using the Caco-2 cells. Of 21 antiparasitics tested, 14 were found to inhibit Pgp mediated [3H]-taxol with Kiapp values in the range 4â€“2000 I¼M. The antimalarial quinine was the most potent inhibitor with a ::: ::: Kiapp of 4 I¼M. Of the 12 natural compounds tested, 3 inhibited [3H]-taxol transport with Kiapp values in the range 50â€“400 I¼M. Quinine, amodiaquine, chloroquine, flavone, genistein, praziquantel, quercetin and thiabendazole were further investigated in bidirectional transport assays to determine whether they were substrates for Pgp. Transport of quinine in the secretory direction exceeded that in the absorptive direction and was saturable, suggesting quinine being a Pgp substrate. The rest of the compounds inhibiting Pgp showed no evidence of being Pgp substrates. Amodiaquine was further investigate because the transport experiments in Caco-2 cells showed low recovery of 30 % and rapid disappearance of the compound from the apical chamber. Compounds structurally similar to amodiaquine, and those affecting non-specific binding of amodiaquine or pH of the system, were tested to unravel the mechanism behind these ::: ::: observations. Chloroquine and ammonium chloride increased the transmonolayer permeability of amodiaquine and decreased its accumulation in Caco-2 cells, whereas bovine serum albumin ::: ::: (BSA) had no effect. Chloroquine and BSA decreased plastic binding whereas ammonium chloride had no effect. This suggests that amodiaquine is trapped in acidic cell compartments such as lysosomes. Amodiaquine was also trapped in rat intestinal tissue with permeability from the apical to basolateral direction significantly higher than in the opposite direction, suggesting an active uptake over the apical membrane of the rat tissue. Transport in rat jejunum was asymmetric with apparent active apical uptake. Rapid apical uptake in Caco-2 cells appeared to support this theory. However, screening of a range of potential inhibitors as a first step to identifying the potential transporter was not successful and further studies will be required. ::: ::: To study enzyme-transporter coupling in Caco-2 cells, the GST substrate monochlorobimane (MCB) was used. The Caco-2 cells displayed GST activity by metabolising MCB to the fluorescent conjugate glutathione-bimane (GSB). The cells were loaded with MCB which they conjugated to GSB, and the latter was effluxed into the apical and basolateral compartments with a greater amount being effluxed into the apical compartment. The multidrug resistance protein (MRP) inhibitor benzbromarone, inhibited GSB efflux at both the apical and ::: ::: basolateral membranes of the Caco-2 cells indicating the presence of GSB-transporting MRPs at both membranes. Ethacrynic acid, which inhibits both GSTs and MRPs reduced both apical and basolateral efflux as well as GSB formation. Diospyrin and ellagic acid which had been seen to be potent inhibitors of recombinant GSTs had no effect on MCB conjugation to GSB or on GSB efflux. In another experiment, Caco-2 cells were loaded with bromosulfophthalein (BSP) a ::: ::: known MRP substrate, and BSP was effluxed preferentially into the apical compartment. ::: ::: Addition of the MRP inhibitor benzbromarone resulted in decrease in apical efflux of BSP, and a corresponding increase in the basolateral efflux. This indicates a transporter-transporter interaction whereby the basolateral MRP has a lower affinity for BSP than the apical MRP, and upon inhibition of the apical MRP, the basolateral MRP takes over the efflux of BSP. ::: ::: In conclusion, a number of purified compounds isolated from plants and a number of antiparasitic drugs, in a range of concentrations, were found to be capable of inhibiting the major drug metabolising CYPs and the major drug transporter Pgp as well as GSTs, in vitro. Drug metabolising enzymes and transporters play an important role in pharmacokinetics. Interaction of the purified plant isolates and antiparasitic drugs with CYPs, GSTs and Pgp has implications for potentially harmful drug-drug interactions where the plant isolates contained in, for instance, a herbal medicine, may be taken concomitantly with prescribed medicines and where antiparasitic drugs may be taken in combination due to emerging resistance. The GST and Pgp inhibitors may also be potential chemomodulators in the case of multidrug resistance in cancer therapy. In the case of amodiaquine, the compound was trapped in acidic cell compartments due to its basicity, ::: ::: and the use of ammonium chloride rather than BSA in transport experiments with similar compounds is recommended for better prediction of permeability. Comparison of the different experimental methods used, i.e. in vitro recombinant human CYPs vs in vitro recombinant rat CYP; in vitro recombinant rat CYP vs in vivo rat CYP; in vitro recombinant GST vs cellular GST, and membrane transport in cells vs membrane transport in excised tissue, indicated that scaling of in vitro data to more complex in vivo effects should be done with caution. The research work also demonstrated the applicability of in vitro ADME assays routinely used in pharmaceutical companies to the evaluation of natural products and antiparasitic drugs.
Rat glutathione transferase 4-4 catalyzed the conjugation of 2-mercaptoethanol with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in the presence of S-methyl-glutathione. The reaction was linearly dependent on enzyme concentration and saturation was seen with respect to both 2-mercaptoethanol and S-methyl-glutathione concentration. High concentrations of S-methyl-glutathione were inhibitory. The results suggest that the natural substrate glutathione has two distinct functions in the normal catalytic reaction, (i) induction of a catalytically competent conformation of the enzyme and (ii) provision of the substrate sulfhydryl group in the reaction catalyzed.
Effects of Brussels sprouts (2.5–30%), allyl isothiocyanate (0.03 and 0.1%) and goitrin (0.02%), in the diet, on the glutathione S-transferase subunit pattern in the liver and small intestinal mucosa of male Fisher rats were investigated. A statistically significant linear relationship was found between the amount of Brussels sprouts in the diet and the induction of glutathione S-transferase subunits in two experiments. Increases in total activity of glutathione S-transferases towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene ranged from about 15% (2.5% Brussels sprouts in the diet) to 180% (30% Brussels sprouts in the diet) in the liver, and from 3% (2.5% Brussels sprouts) to 150% (30% Brussels sprouts) in the small intestinal mucosa. There were similar increases in the total amounts of glutathione S-transferase subunits. In the first experiment, when the average sinigrin and progoitrin levels found in the sprouts were 1835 and 415 μmol/kg, respectively, subunit induction patterns in both the liver and the small intestinal mucosa were very similar to the pattern observed after feeding allyl isothiocyanate. In the second experiment, when the average sinigrin level found in the sprouts was as low as the progoitrin level (both about 540 μmol/kg), a goitrin-like induction pattern was observed. The most pronounced difference between the glutathione S-transferase subunit induction patterns due to administration of allyl isothiocyanate and goitrin is the much stronger enhancement of subunit 2 by allyl isothiocyanate. The induction patterns of both experiments indicate that in Brussels sprouts at least two compounds, probably allyl isothiocyanate and goitrin, are responsible for the induction of glutathione S-transferases.
The pharmacological action of organic nitrate vasodilators [e.g., nitroglycerin (NTG)] is thought to be mediated through metabolic conversion to nitric oxide (NO); conversion leads to vasodilatation, whereas diminished conversion in chronic therapy may lead to pharmacological tolerance. The biochemical nature of this process, however, is poorly understood. Glutathione-S-transferases (GST) have been shown to metabolize organic nitrates in the liver, but it is not known whether these enzymes are involved in this pharmacologically relevant process. We, therefore, compared the activities of conversion of NTG to NO vs. those of GST in microsomal suspensions of bovine coronary artery smooth muscle tissue. A classical GST substrate, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, inhibited NO production in microsomes, suggesting possible involvement of GST in organic nitrate activation. However, GST activity derived from microsomes exhibited a different heat lability profile compared to that of NO generation. Known inhibitors of GST (viz., indomethacin and bromosulfophthalein) did not alter the NO-generating activity in microsomes. Glutathione was a critical cofactor for GST, but not for NO generation from NTG, and thiols other than glutathione (e.g., N-acetyl-L-cysteine and thiosalicylic acid) also could facilitate NO production. Moreover, comparison to a commercially available purified liver GST preparation showed that, at the same GST activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, the microsomal incubation produced about 8 times more NO than the purified liver GST. Radiation inactivation analysis of the functional molecular sizes of GST and the NO-producing enzyme(s) suggested that the enzymes were of different molecular weights (54 kD and 160 kD, respectively).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Within the Alpha class of the mammalian glutathione transferases two variants of subunit interfaces exist. One is conserved among the A4 subunits, whereas the second one is found in all other members of the Alpha class. The ability of the two Alpha class subunit interfaces to adopt a functional heterodimeric structure has been investigated here.The heterodimer GST A1-4 was obtained by co-expression of the two human Alpha class subunits A1 and A4 in Escherichia coli. A histidine tail was added to the N terminus of the A1 subunit to facilitate the purification of the heterodimer. The heterodimer was formed in a small proportion implying that the efficiency of the hybridization between subunit A1 and A4 is less than the propensity for homodimer formation. The hybrid enzyme was stable at low temperatures, but the two subunits dissociated and reassociated into homodimers at 40 degrees C. Three different substrates were used for subunit-selective kinetic characterization of the GST A1-4 heterodimer: 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, nonenal and Delta(5)-androstene-3,17-dione. Both subunit A1 and subunit A4 were active in GST A1-4, but the specific activities and k(cat) values were lower than the average values of the two parental isoenzymes. However, at high temperatures the subunits of the hybrid enzyme dissociated and formed homodimers, and the activities increased to expected values. Hence, the low activities of the individual subunits in the heterodimer were reversible. The non-additive kinetic properties of the subunits in the heterodimer therefore highlight the importance of fine-tuned subunit interactions for optimal catalytic efficiency of GST A1-1 and GST A4-4.
The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is known to protect healthy brain cells from potentially dangerous chemical agents, but there are many evidences supporting the idea that this protective action is extended to tumor cells. Since the process of angiogenesis in brain tumors leads to BBB breakdown, biochemical characteristics of the BBB seem to be more relevant than physical barriers to protect tumor cells from chemotherapy. In fact, a number of resistance related factors were already demonstrated to be component of both BBB and tumor cells. The enzyme glutathione S-transferases (GST) detoxify electrophilic xenobiotics and endogenous secondary metabolites formed during oxidative stress. A role has been attributed to GST in the resistance of cancer cells to chemotherapeutic agents. This study characterized 8-methoxypsoralen (8-MOP) as a human GST P1-1 (hGST P1-1) inhibitor. To identify and characterize the potential inhibitory activity of 8-MOP, we studied the enzyme kinetics of the conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) with GSH catalysed by hGST P1-1. We report here that 8-MOP competitively inhibited hGST P1-1 relative to CDNB, but there was an uncompetitive inhibition relative to GSH. Chromatographic analyses suggest that 8-MOP is not a substrate. Molecular docking simulations suggest that 8-MOP binds to the active site, but its position prevents the GSH conjugation. Thus, we conclude that 8-MOP is a promising prototype for new GST inhibitors pharmacologically useful in the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders and the resistance of cancer to chemotherapy.
Glutathione S-transferase (GST) cDNA from cotton plant was cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli. The expressed GST enzyme conjugated reduced glutathione with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), which had the cytotoxicity to prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells. Expressed GST had about two-fold glutathione peroxidase and about 40-fold GST specific activity. Cytotoxicity of CDNB was detoxicified by the products of cotton GST cDNA on tomato plants. This result can provide the possibility of cloning plant gene, expressing the functional product of plant gene in microbe, protecting horticultural plants from toxic chemicals by the gene products, and using this gene to improve the tolerance to herbicide by overexpressing in horticultural plants.
BACKGROUND & OBJECTIVES ::: Interest in insect glutathione s-transferases (GSTs) has primarily focused on their role in insecticide resistance. These play an important role in biotransformation and detoxification of many different xenobiotic and endogenous substances including insecticides. The GST activity among 10 laboratory selected insecticide resistant and susceptible/control strains of Anopheles stephensi was compared using the substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). The difference in the GST activities of different life stages of diverse insecticide resistant strains was compared and presented. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: About 100 larvae, pupae, adult males, adult females and eggs (100 μg in total weight) were collected and used for the experiment. The extracts were prepared from each of the insecticide-resistant strains and control. Protein contents of the enzyme homogenate and GST activities were determined. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Deltamethrin and cyfluthrin-resistant strains of An. stephensi showed significantly higher GST activity. Larvae and pupae of DDT-resistant strain showed peak GST activity followed by the propoxur-resistant strain. On contrary, the GST activity was found in reduced quantity in alphamethrin, bifenthrin, carbofuran and chloropyrifos resistant strains. Adults of either sexes showed higher GST activity in mosquito strain resistant to organophosphate group of insecticides namely, temephos and chloropyrifos. ::: ::: ::: INTERPRETATION & CONCLUSION ::: The GST activity was closely associated with almost all of the insecticides used in the study, strengthening the fact that one of the mechanisms associated with resistance includes an increase of GST activity. This comparative data on GST activity in An. stephensi can be useful database to identify possible underlying mechanisms governing insecticide-resistance by GSTs.
Over recent years it has emerged how certain no crop-species can be employed in phytoremediating contaminated soils or preventing herbicide pollution; in this contest Festuca arundinacea was investigated. Shoots of Festuca were submitted to fast protein liquid chromatography in order to identify their glutathione S-transferases (GST; EC 2.5.1.18), by a combination of anionic, affinity and RP-HPLC chromatography. The chromatographic procedure revealed satisfactory yield and four GSTs were identified: they were named FaGST I, FaGST II, FaGST III and FaGST IV. Among these, significant differences were observed in the chromatographic behaviours, structure, activity toward a "model" substrate, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, and responsiveness to the herbicide safener benoxacor. FaGST I showed the highest activity toward the above substrate, and this activity was up-regulated by the herbicide safener. Therefore, FaGST I was purified till homogeneity and was determined to be an heterodimer consisting of two subunits of 28.0 and 27.2kDa. Each subunit of FaGST I was further characterized by means of LC-ESI-MS/MS and immunoblotting analysis, which revealed that both the subunits belong to the tau subclass.
Investigation of the dependence of reaction rate of piperidine with 1-fluoro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in benzene on the concentration of added phenols gives the rate law (A). ‘Salt’ stands for piperidinium phenoxides. Rate//[ArF][PIP]free=k0+kPIP[PIP]free+kArOH[ArOH]free+kSalt[Salt](A). Catalytic coefficients for the phenols are, within experimental error, independent of the acid strength of the catalyst. This reaction is also powerfully accelerated by tetra-n-butylammonium chloride whereas tetra-n-butylammonium perchlorate has no rate effect. In sharp contrast, the rate of the corresponding reaction of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in benzene is neither accelerated by phenols nor by tetra-n-butylammonium chloride. These findings are discussed in terms of catalysis of the reaction of the fluoro-compound by phenols or by salts of basic anions (bifunctional for the former) of the decomposition of the addition intermediate into products.
Abstract Abamectin resistance monitoring with the two-spotted spider mite, Tetranychus urticae Koch, using a diagnostic dose revealed resistant strains from the Netherlands (NL-00), Colombia (COL-00), and Brazil (BR3-00). Resistance to abamectin in these strains was associated with significantly enhanced O-deethylation of 7-ethoxycoumarin mediated by cytochrome P450-dependent monooxygenases (MFO). The abamectin-resistant strains NL-00 and COL-00 showed severalfold higher MFO activity than the susceptible strain GSS. Furthermore a higher glutathione S -transferase (GST) activity was detected toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and monochlorobimane, a new substrate leading to a fluorescent product upon conjugation with glutathione. The measured 1.6- and 2.0-fold increases in GST activity toward CDNB in strains COL-00 and NL-00 were almost proportional to the resistance factors of 26 and 54, respectively. Frequency distribution of GST activity measured by the microfluorometric assay using monochlorobimane in homogenates of individual spider mites showed totally separated activity patterns for the susceptible strain GSS and the abamectin-resistant strain NL-00. In contrast to strain NL-00, abamectin resistance in the Brazilian strain was not stable in the laboratory over 6 months and the loss of resistance coincided with decreased GST and MFO activity. The involvement of GST and MFO in abamectin resistance in T. urticae was confirmed by synergism studies with the MFO inhibitor piperonyl butoxide and the GST inhibitor diethyl maleate. This paper is the first attempt to biochemically describe abamectin resistance in T. urticae .
Breakdown of membrane phospholipids is a causative event leading to irreversible cell injury after ischemia and reperfusion insults, which might be one mechanism leading to liver tumor cell death after repeated arterial ischemia as well. After 2 hr of hepatic dearterialization followed by 30 min of reperfusion tumor phospholipid was measured chromatographically, glutathione (GSH) analyzed by determining nonprotein sulfhydryl and activity of glutathione-S-transferase (GST) determined spectrophotometrically using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as the substrate. A transient, arterial ischemia for 2 hr induced a substantial decrease of phosphatidylserine (PS) and phosphatidylinosital (PI) compared with sham treatment (P < 0.01). Although phosphatidylcholine (PC) and phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) did not significantly decline after a single arterial ischemia for 2 hr, they dropped dramatically following repeated arterial ischemia for 2 hr during 5 days (P < 0.01 and P < 0.05 respectively). GSH was depleted in tumors after both a single (P < 0.01) and repeated arterial ischemia (P < 0.05) and GST was inactivated as well (P < 0.001). By contrast, neither liver phospholipid nor liver GSH or GST was significantly changed. Tumor growth was significantly retarded in rats subjected to repeated arterial ischemia compared with sham treatment (P < 0.01). Repeated arterial ischemia facilitated degradation of tumor membrane phospholipids and induced depletion of GSH and inactivation of GST without affecting the normal liver. Thus, ischemia/reperfusion induced depletion of membrane phospholipids and of GSH might represent two mechanisms by which repeated arterial ischemia led to tumor growth delay.
Male reproductive organs are extremely sensitive to the negative influence of toxic environmental factors as well as drugs, and until now not many attempts have been made at studying the detoxication enzymes and the relationship between the activity of those enzymes and spermatozoa fertility. In the present work we studied cytosolic glutathione-S-transferases (GST, EC 2.5.1.18) from different parts (head, corpus and tail) of bull and boar epididymis. We isolated two molecular forms of GST from each part of epididymis, characterized their biochemical properties and examined the mechanism of the catalyzed reaction. On the basis of their substrate specificity and isoelectric point, the isoforms were found to belong to the near neutral GST class mi. All examined GST forms exhibited higher affinity towards GSH than towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and bull epididymis GST forms showed biphasic Lineweaver-Burk double reciprocal curves in the presence of GSH as a variable substrate. Boar epididymis anionic GST had the -SH groups both in the GSH and the CDNB binding place, whereas the cationic GST form -arginine residues in the CDNB binding place. Bull epididymis GST forms contained neither thiol nor arginine residues essential for catalytic activity.
The endogenous estrogens are important modulators of the immune system and its functions. However, their effects are rather complex and many aspects have not been studied. In this study, we used the 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB)-induced contact dermatitis as a disease model and investigated the effect of estriol (E 3 ), along with two other estrogens, 17b-estradiol and estrone, on the pathogenesis of contact hypersensitivity. A series of parameters, such as ear swelling, skin inflammation, antigen-specific immunoglobulins, and lymphocyte compositions in peripheral lymphoid organs, were evaluated in mice following development of contact dermatitis. We found that administration of all three estrogens elicited strong inhibition of DNCB-induced dermatitis, while E 3 exerted the strongest suppressive effect. Administration of E 3 alleviated dermatitis, and this effect was accompanied by decreases in serum DNCB-specific immunoglobulins, such as IgA, IgG1, IgG2a, and IgG2b. Besides, treatment with E 3 reduced B cell population, especially IgG-producing cells in the peripheral lymphoid organs following the induction of dermatitis. These observations consistently suggest that the antibody (Ab)-mediated humoral immune reactions play a critical role in the pathogenesis of DNCB-induced contact dermatitis. The results from this study demonstrate, for the first time, that estrogen administration has a strong suppressive effect on the pathogenesis of contact dermatitis. These findings offer important insights concerning the pathogenic role of antigen-specific Abs in contact dermatitis and the treatment of chemical-induced, Ab-mediated skin hypersensitivity reactions in humans. 
The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is known to protect healthy brain cells from potentially dangerous chemical agents, but there are many evidences supporting the idea that this protective action is extended to tumor cells. Since the process of angiogenesis in brain tumors leads to BBB breakdown, biochemical characteristics of the BBB seem to be more relevant than physical barriers to protect tumor cells from chemotherapy. In fact, a number of resistance related factors were already demonstrated to be component of both BBB and tumor cells. The enzyme glutathione S-transferases (GST) detoxify electrophilic xenobiotics and endogenous secondary metabolites formed during oxidative stress. A role has been attributed to GST in the resistance of cancer cells to chemotherapeutic agents. This study characterized 8-methoxypsoralen (8-MOP) as a human GST P1-1 (hGST P1-1) inhibitor. To identify and characterize the potential inhibitory activity of 8-MOP, we studied the enzyme kinetics of the conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) with GSH catalyzed by hGST P1-1. We report here that 8-MOP competitively inhibited hGST P1-1 relative to CDNB, but there was an uncompetitive inhibition relative to GSH. Chromatographic analyses suggest that 8-MOP is not a substrate. Molecular docking simulations suggest that 8-MOP binds to the active site, but its position prevents the GSH conjugation. Thus, we conclude that 8-MOP is a promising prototype for new GST inhibitors pharmacologically useful in the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders and the resistance of cancer to chemotherapy.
The genes involved in isoprene (2-methyl-1,3-butadiene) utilization in Rhodococcus sp. strain AD45 were cloned and characterized. Sequence analysis of an 8.5-kb DNA fragment showed the presence of 10 genes of which 2 encoded enzymes which were previously found to be involved in isoprene degradation: a glutathione S-transferase with activity towards 1,2-epoxy-2-methyl-3-butene (isoI) and a 1-hydroxy-2-glutathionyl-2-methyl-3-butene dehydrogenase (isoH). Furthermore, a gene encoding a second glutathione S-transferase was identified (isoJ). The isoJ gene was overexpressed in Escherichia coli and was found to have activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 3,4-dichloro-1-nitrobenzene but not with 1, 2-epoxy-2-methyl-3-butene. Downstream of isoJ, six genes (isoABCDEF) were found; these genes encoded a putative alkene monooxygenase that showed high similarity to components of the alkene monooxygenase from Xanthobacter sp. strain Py2 and other multicomponent monooxygenases. The deduced amino acid sequence encoded by an additional gene (isoG) showed significant similarity with that of alpha-methylacyl-coenzyme A racemase. The results are in agreement with a catabolic route for isoprene involving epoxidation by a monooxygenase, conjugation to glutathione, and oxidation of the hydroxyl group to a carboxylate. Metabolism may proceed by fatty acid oxidation after removal of glutathione by a still-unknown mechanism.
The action of safener benoxacor on the detoxification of terbuthylazine (TBA) in Zea mays and Festuca arundinacea was ascertained by the investigation of the effects of benoxacor on the activity of glutathione-S-transferases (GSTs) in the shoots of the two plant species. TBA treatment generally reduced GST activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) in corn and did not affect the enzyme activity in festuca. When applied alone, benoxacor stimulated GST activity in both plants; however, when it was applied in mixture with TBA, generally, an enhancement of the enzyme activity was found in corn but not in festuca in comparison with the respective TBA-treated samples. The enhancement of GST activity in response to the benoxacor treatment in both corn and festuca resulted to be concomitant with decreases in apparent K(M) in both the plant species, with V(max) unaffected, and with an increased expression of proteins having molecular masses in the characteristic range of plant GSTs. After the benoxacor treatment, increased GST activity toward TBA as a substrate was observed in both corn and festuca. As a consequence, lesser amounts and persistence of TBA residues were found in shoots of corn and festuca treated with the TBA and benoxacor mixture compared to TBA-only-treated samples. Therefore, benoxacor enhances TBA detoxification in both corn and festuca; the induction of detoxifying activity in a nondomesticated grass is discussed in view of its use in vegetating buffer strips around crops to prevent TBA pollution.
Phospholipid hydroperoxide glutathione peroxidase (PHGPX) is the second identified Se-dependent intracellular glutathione peroxidase (PHGPX) that reduces phospholipid hydroperoxides. The objective of this study was to determine the developmental regulation of PHGPX expression in tissues of neonatal, weanling and finishing pigs (Sus scrofa) compared with the expression of the classic Se-dependent cellular glutathione peroxidase (GPX) and the Se-independent enzyme, glutathione S-transferase (GST). Eight different tissues were collected from Se-adequate male pigs aged 1, 28 and 180 days, and supernatant of the tissue homogenate was assayed for PHGPX, GPX and GST activities by using phosphatidylcholine hydroperoxide, hydrogen peroxide and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate, respectively. Total RNA was isolated from four tissues and assayed for PHGPX mRNA expression. Both mRNA and activity expression of PHGPX in most assayed tissues was increased as pigs became older (P < 0.05), but increases in PHGPX mRNA levels between ages did not fully account for all changes in activity. Expression of GPX activity was increased more than that of PHGPX between day 1 and day 28 (P < 0.0001). Expression of GST activity in various tissues was also affected by age (P < 0.01) but lacked a consistent relationship with the changes in GPX and PHGPX activity. Tissue-specific patterns of developmental expression of these enzymes may be related to the susceptibility of organs to pro-oxidant injuries. In conclusion, expression of PHGPX mRNA and activity in various tissues of pigs is developmentally increased over ages, and the pattern is somewhat different from that of GPX.
For selection and identification of potential chemopreventive agents, a biochemical assay using induction of a phase II enzyme, glutathione-S-transferase (GST) in a liver cell culture is described. A normal human liver cell line (Chang liver cells) was selected as the candidate cell line for induction of GST (liver tissues are abundant in GST) by a known chemopreventive agent, oltipraz. Exponentially growing cells plated for 24 hours are exposed to various doses of a chemopreventive agent for an additional 24 hours, homogenized by sonication, and the homogenate is assayed for GST in a modified microplate enzyme assay using CDNB (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene) as a substrate. A concurrent protein assay is performed to determine the specific enzyme activity. As the assay is modified from a spectrophotometric assay to a microplate assay, it is reliable, sensitive and fast, a significant number of test agents can be screened in a short time.
BACKGROUND ::: Th2 cells are overexpressed in the skin and serum of atopic dermatitis (AD) patients. Previously, we found that dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) decreased eosinophil infiltration in asthmatic mice through the suppression of Th2-associated cytokines. Therefore, we hypothesized that DHEA might improve the symptoms of AD syndrome. ::: ::: ::: OBJECTIVE ::: In this study, we evaluated the symptom improvement and anti-inflammatory response that result from the modulation of immunity by DHEA modulated in AD-like mice. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Female BALB/c mice were sensitized and challenged with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. On days 14-29 after sensitization, mice were treated with cutaneous (skin smear) or oral administration of DHEA. In addition, human keratinocyte (HaCat) cells were used to evaluate the effect of DHEA on the in vitro production of proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Both cutaneous and oral DHEA were able to decrease ear swelling and skin inflammation in AD-like mice. DHEA also attenuated eosinophil and mast cell infiltration into ear and skin tissue. Additionally, Th2-associated cytokines were inhibited in splenocyte culture, and suppressed the levels of IgE and interleukin 4 in serum. Oral and cutaneous administration of DHEA reduced the inflammatory response, as evidenced by AD-like skin lesions, in a similar manner. DHEA significantly reduced inflammatory cytokines and chemokines through the nuclear factor-κB and mitogen-activated protein kinases pathways in tumor necrosis factor-α activated HaCat cells. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: DHEA ameliorates AD-like mouse skin inflammation and reduces eosinophil and mast cell infiltration by reducing the production of Th2-associated cytokines and chemokines.
A human acidic glutathione S-transferase, hGST 5.8, was isolated from heart, pancreas, and brain by a procedure involving immunoadsorption chromatography on immobilized antibodies raised against mouse mGSTA4-4. The human hGST 5.8 enzymes isolated from these tissues had similar pI (5.8) and subunit M(r) (24.5 kDa) values, showed about 17- to 20-fold higher specific activities for 4-hydroxynon-2-enal than that for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, and expressed glutathione peroxidase activity toward phospholipid hydroperoxides. In this respect, the enzymes belong together with rat GST 8-8 and mouse mGSTA4-4 to a subgroup of GSTs involved in the detoxification of lipid peroxidation products. Partial sequencing of CNBr-peptide fragments of hGST 5.8 proteins isolated from various human tissues revealed significant similarity to mGSTA4-4 and the existence of several distinct isoforms differing in their primary structures. These isoforms had similar but nevertheless clearly distinguishable catalytic properties. These results indicate the existence of multiple hGST 5.8-related genes in the humans, which is consistent with our previous studies showing the presence of several closely related genes for the mouse ortholog mGSTA4-4 (Zimniak et al., J. Biol. Chem., 1994, 269, 992-1000).
Summary The courses of development, maintenance, and eventual loss of immediate (humoral) and delayed (cellular) skin hypersensitivities in mice to chicken ovalbumin, bovine and human serum albumins, and tuberculoprotein as well as delayed hypersensitivity to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene were followed. The durations of primary hypersensitivities to the two serum albumins and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene were easily determined and were similar, extending over approximately 12 to 16 weeks. Decline of primary hypersensitivity to the serum albumins was followed by resurgence of hypersensitivity, apparently as a secondary response to intrinsic antigenic stimulation from the original depots of emulsified antigen. The time spans of primary hypersensitivities to ovalbumin and tuberculoprotein could not be determined, because these hypersensitivities merged with secondary reactivities due to such internal restimulation. Various data obtained suggest that the proteins used can be arranged in the following decreasing order of allergenicity in CF 1 mice: ovalbumin, tuberculoprotein, bovine serum albumin, human serum albumin. Distinctions in relative antigenicity were especially obvious in capabilities for inducing delayed hypersensitivity, the last antigen being unable to do so in half the mice tested unless injected in Freund9s complete adjuvant. The significance of these findings in the comparative mechanisms of immediate and delayed hypersensitization in mice and guinea pigs is discussed.
We purified cytosolic glutathione S-transferase (GST) of adult Paragonimus westermani monitoring its activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). The enzyme was purified 18.4-fold to electrophoretic homogeneity with 21% recovery rate through a three-step procedure. The purified enzyme (Pw28GST) has a subunit molecular weight of 28 kDa with an isoelectric point at 4.6. Monoclonal antibody (anti-Pw28GST) against Pw28GST did not cross-react with GSTs from other helminths. cDNA library was constructed in lambdaZAP II bacteriophage and screened with anti-Pw28GST. The corresponding gene containing a single open reading frame of 804 bp encoded 211 amino acids. The predicted amino acid sequence exhibited a higher homology with catalytic domain near N-terminus of class sigma GSTs (58%) than with schistosome 28-kDa GSTs (45-41%) or with class sigma GSTs themselves (33-31%). The sequence contained both Tyr-6 and Tyr-10 that are highly conserved in mammalian and helminth GSTs. The apparent K(m) value of a recombinant enzyme was 0.78 mM. Both native and recombinant enzymes showed the highest activity against CDNB, relatively weak activity against ethacrynic acid and reactive carbonyls, and no activity against epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)-propane. The activities were inhibited by bromosulfophthalein, cibacron blue, and albendazole, but not by praziquantel. These findings indicate that adult P. westermani has a class sigma GST.
The hypolipidemic drug clofibrate is known to affect the hepatic transport of various organic anions including bilirubin, fatty acids and sulfobromophthalein. Changes in the rate of metabolism and/or intracellular transport have been claimed responsible for the effect. To evaluate these possibilities, the transport of sulfobromophthalein-glutathione, a model compound that does not require metabolism for biliary excretion, was studied in perfused livers isolated from clofibrate-treated and control rats. Cytosolic fatty acid binding protein and glutathione S-transferase activity were also measured. Clofibrate treatment significantly increased liver weight; as a result glutathione S-transferase activity (toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene) fell if expressed per gram of liver (4560±420 (SE) vs 7010±260 nmoles/min for clofibrate treated and controls respectively, p 0.5). Irrespective of how it was expressed fatty acid binding protein was significantly increased by the drug treatment. Steady state sulfobromophthalein-glutathione removal velocity was saturble with increasing concentrations of sulfobromophthalein-glutathione in both control and clofibrate-treated livers. Steady state extraction ratio, as well as Vmax and Km for removal, did not differ between the two groups. In keeping with other observations, these data collectively indicate that the hepatic steady state removal of nonmetabolized compounds is not affected by clofibrate. Because the concomitant decrease in glutathione S-transferase activity only reflects an opposite change in liver weight, it remains to be determined whether clofibrate alters the hepatic transport of sulfobromophthalein and other compounds that are conjugated with glutathione solely by changing their rate of metabolism.
In recent years test systems have been described that may be applied routinely to discriminate between contact allergens and irritants in vitro. Using human monocyte-derived dendritic cells (MoDC), this study was designed to refine the settings of a potential routine screening protocol for contact allergens and to investigate the so far poorly defined concentration dependency of contact allergen-specific effects. MoDC were generated by 6 days of culture in the presence of IL-4 and GM-CSF and were then cultured for 24 or 48 h in medium with lipopolysaccharide (LPS), contact allergens [picrylsulphonic acid (TNBS), 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB)] or irritants [sodium dodecyl sulphate (SDS), benzalkonium chloride (BAC)] that were free of detectable endotoxin contamination. The induction of CD86 and HLA-DR expression was quantified by flow cytometry as markers for MoDC activation. LPS activation upregulated CD86 about 20-fold and HLA-DR expression about 4-fold. Compared to LPS, contact allergens had weaker effects. TNBS and DNCB induced activation marker upregulation starting slightly below the cytotoxic concentration and increasing in a dose-dependent manner. However, at partially cytotoxic concentrations, irritants also induced CD86 and HLA-DR expression, as confirmed by flow cytometry and quantitative RT-PCR. Both SDS and BAC induced activation marker expression on surviving MoDC, when more than 50% of the MoDC population had been killed by the treatment. Consequently, routine testing of unknown substances would need to quantify activation marker expression as well as cytotoxicity in parallel. In the concentration range around the lowest cytotoxic concentration, the assay may be able to discriminate between contact allergens and irritants.
4-Hydroxy-2-trans-nonenal (HNE) is a lipid peroxidation product that contributes to the pathophysiology of several diseases with components of oxidative stress. The electrophilic nature of HNE results in covalent adduct formation with proteins, fatty acids and DNA. However, it remains unclear whether enzymes that metabolize HNE avoid inactivation by it. Glutathione transferase A4-4 (GST A4-4) plays a significant role in the elimination of HNE by conjugating it with glutathione (GSH), with catalytic activity toward HNE that is dramatically higher than the homologous GST A1-1 or distantly related GSTs. To determine whether enzymes that metabolize HNE resist its covalent adduction, the rates of adduction of these GST isoforms were compared and the functional effects of adduction on catalytic properties were determined. Although GST A4-4 and GST A1-1 have striking structural similarity, GST A4-4 was insensitive to adduction by HNE under conditions that yield modest adduction of GST A1-1 and extensive adduction of GST P1-1. Furthermore, adduction of GST P1-1 by HNE eliminated its activity toward the substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and toward HNE itself. HNE effects on GST A4-4 and A1-1 were less significant. The results indicate that enzymes that metabolize HNE may have evolved structurally to resist covalent adduction by it.
Abstract Resistance to profenofos and activities of enzymes associated with metabolism of organophosphorus insecticides were measured in larvae of the tobacco budworm, Heliothis virescens (F.), that were field-collected from Louisiana during the 1995 cotton growing season. High frequencies of profenofos resistance were recorded in all field-collected strains and were strongly correlated with esterase activity and moderately correlated with glutathione S -transferase activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Mean levels of acetylcholinesterase sensitivity to inhibition by chlorpyrifos oxon were lower in some field strains than that of an insecticide-susceptible strain; however, acetylcholinesterase sensitivity and resistance were poorly correlated in all field strains. Finally, there was no correlation between resistance and activities of P450-monooxygenase toward p -nitroanisole or glutathione S -transferase toward 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene. These results suggest possible contributions of both metabolic and target site mechanisms toward profenofos resistance in this insect.
The cytotoxicity of sodium nitroprusside (SNP) to the human endothelial cell line, ECV304, was studied. The cytotoxicity of SNP was primarily related to the liberation of nitric oxide (NO). S-nitroso-N-acetyl-d-penicillamine (SNAP), an NO donor, was highly toxic. Other degradation products of SNP either exerted much less toxicity (i.e. cyanide and nitrite) or were non-toxic (i.e. ferricyanide and ferrocyanide). SNP induced multinucleation, inhibited cell proliferation, lowered the endogenous level of reduced glutathione (GSH), and induced apoptotic cell death. The plasma membrane was not the prime site of toxic action, as leakage of lactic acid dehydrogenase (LDH) occurred only at a relatively high concentration of SNP. Cells treated with non-toxic levels of the glutathione-depleting agents, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), dl-buthionine-[S,R]-sulfoximine (BSO), and 1,3-bis-(chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU), were hypersensitive to subsequent exposure to SNP. The GSH status of the cells was, therefore, a key factor in determining the cytotoxicity of SNP.
The genes involved in isoprene (2-methyl-1,3-butadiene) utilization in Rhodococcus sp. strain AD45 were cloned and characterized. Sequence analysis of an 8.5-kb DNA fragment showed the presence of 10 genes of which 2 encoded enzymes which were previously found to be involved in isoprene degradation: a glutathione S-transferase with activity towards 1,2-epoxy-2-methyl-3-butene (isoI) and a 1-hydroxy-2-glutathionyl-2-methyl-3-butene dehydrogenase (isoH). Furthermore, a gene encoding a second glutathione S-transferase was identified (isoJ). The isoJ gene was overexpressed in Escherichia coli and was found to have activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 3,4-dichloro-1-nitrobenzene but not with 1,2-epoxy-2-methyl-3-butene. Downstream of isoJ, six genes (isoABCDEF) were found; these genes encoded a putative alkene monooxygenase that showed high similarity to components of the alkene monooxygenase from Xanthobacter sp. strain Py2 and other multicomponent monooxygenases. The deduced amino acid sequence encoded by an additional gene (isoG) showed significant similarity with that of ␣-methylacyl-coenzyme A racemase. The results are in agreement with a catabolic route for isoprene involving epoxidation by a monooxygenase, conjugation to glutathione, and oxidation of the hydroxyl group to a carboxylate. Metabolism may proceed by fatty acid oxidation after removal of glutathione by a still-unknown mechanism.
Currently, no information on the genetics of isoprene metabolism is available, and the metabolic pathway is still not completely known. In the present study we report the complete nucleotide sequence and polypeptide analysis of an 8,456-bp region encoding the putative isoprene monooxygenase, the glutathione S-transferase with activity towards epoxides, a second glutathione S-transferase, the HGMB-specific dehydrogenase, and a putative racemase. Furthermore, we have overexpressed both glutathione S-transferases, and data on their activities with 1,2-epoxy-2-methyl-3-butene, 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB), and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) are reported. The implications for the catabolic pathway of isoprene will be discussed.
Epidemiological studies suggest that aflatoxin B 1 (AFB 1 ), a mycotoxin produced by certain Aspergillus species, may play a role in human respiratory cancers in occupationallyexposed individuals. AFB 1 requires bioactivation to the corresponding exo-8,9-epoxide for carcinogenicity, and glutathione S-transferase (GST)-catalyzed conjugation of the epoxide with glutathione (GSH) is a critical determinant of susceptibility to AFB 1 . Of the purified human GST enzymes studied, the polymorphic hGSTM1-1 has the highest activity towards AFB 1 exo-epoxide. The influence of the GSTM1 polymorphism on AFB 1 -GSH formation, as well as the abilities of cytosols from preparations enriched in different isolated lung cell types to conjugate AFB 1 -epoxides, were examined. In whole-lung cytosols from patients undergoing clinically indicated lobectomy, GSTM1 genotype correlated with GSTM1 phenotype as determined by [ 3 H]trans-stilbene oxide conjugation: GSTM1-positive ⍧ 295 Ϯ 31 pmol/mg/h (n ⍧ 6); GSTM1-negative ϭ 92.8 ⍨ 23.3 pmol/mg/h (n ⍧ 4) (P < 0.05). In contrast, conjugation of microsome-generated [ 3 H]AFB 1 -epoxides with GSH was low and variable between patients, and did not correlate with GSTM1 genotype: GSTM1-positive ⍧ 11.9 ⍨ 8.1, 111 ⍨ 66 and 510 ⍨ 248 fmol/mg/h (n ⍧ 6); GSTM1-negative ⍧ 15.3 ⍨ 16.7, 167 ⍨ 225 and 540 ⍨ 618 fmol/mg/h (n ⍧ 4) (for 1, 10 and 100 µM [ 3 H]AFB 1 , respectively). GSH conjugates of AFB 1 exo-epoxide and the much less mutagenic stereoisomer AFB 1 endo-epoxide were produced in a ratio of~1:1 in cytosols from both whole lung and isolated cells. Total cytosolic AFB 1 -epoxide conjugation was significantly higher in fractions enriched in alveolar type II cells (3.07 ⍨ 1.61 pmol/mg/h) than in unseparated lung cells (0.143 ⍨ 0.055 pmol/mg/h) or fractions enriched in alveolar macrophages (0.904 ⍨ 0.319 pmol/mg/h; n ⍧ 4) (P < 0.05). Furthermore, AFB 1 -GSH formation and percentage of alveolar type II cells in different cell fractions were correlated (r ⍧ 0.78, P < 0.05). These results demonstrate that human lung GSTs exhibit very low conjugation activity for both AFB 1 -8,9-epoxide stereoisomers, and that this activity is heterogeneously Abbreviations: AFB 1 , aflatoxin B 1 ; CDNB, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene; EDTA, ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid; GSH, glutathione; GST, glutathione S-transferase; HEPES, N-2-hydroxy-ethylpiperazine-N-2-ethanesulfonic acid; HPLC, high-performance liquid chromatography; PCR, polymerase chain reaction; tSBO, trans-stilbene oxide.
A number of oxidants including nitrite (Muzyamba et al. 2000) , phenazine methosulfate (Gibson and Muzyamba 2003a,b) , 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (Gibson and Muzyamba 2003a,b) , and peroxynitrite (Kucherenko et al. 2005 ) have previously been found to have significant stimulatory effects on K + transport systems in red cells from normal individuals and from other species, and may therefore mediate solute loss and red cell dehydration. The effect of XO and hypoxanthine (HO) on red cells, however, has not been detailed hitherto nor its effect on sickle cells. We postulated that oxidants produced by XO and HO may have deleterious effects on the 2018 | Vol. 6 | Iss. 5 | e13626 Page 2 ª 2018 The Authors. Physiological Reports published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. on behalf of
Abstract 1. 1. Cardiac glutathione S -transferases from wild animals; hyena, red fox, porcupine, coypu and mountain gazelle were purified and compared with the enzymes from domestic animals; cow, camel, goat and sheep. 2. 2. By using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as a substrate, domestic hearts expressed higher glutathione conjugating activity than wild animals hearts. 3. 3. In all the studied hearts, the bulk of the activity was associated with near neutral and acidic glutathione S -transferase isozymes with pI values ranging from 4 to 7.4. 4. 4. The enzymes from domestic animals displayed homodimeric structure of 25,000 mol. wt subunit while of the wild animals both hyena and coypu displayed homodimers of 26,500 mol. wt subunit and the rest exhibited heterodimers of 25,000 and 28,000 mol. wt subunits.
The in vitro interaction of 3,4,5,6-tetrachloro-1,2-benzoquinone (o-chloranil) with rat liver glutathione S-transferases (GST) was studied, using reduced glutathione (GSH) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrates. o-Chloranil inhibited the GST activity in crude extracts in a dose dependent manner, while 3,6-dichloro-2,5-dihydroxy-1,4-benzoquinone did not. Each of the GST isoenzymes was inhibited, albeit at different degrees. Kinetic studies never revealed competitive inhibition kinetics, with GSH nor CDNB as the variable substrate. Titration of remaining GSH in appropriate incubation mixtures indicated a minor spontaneous conjugation of o-chloranil with GSH, which was not enzymatically activated. It is concluded that o-chloranil interact with GST by direct binding to these proteins. This binding could have a protective function against o-chloranil.
Human platelets were dose- and time-dependently depleted of intracellular glutathione (GSH) by treatment with the chemical oxidizing agents diamide and N-ethylmaleimide (NEM), and by formation of chemical conjugates with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) catalyzed by GSH-S-transferase. In addition to effects upon GSH, these agents also inhibited platelet GSH-peroxidase activity. The inhibitory effect of CDNB was selective for GSH-peroxidase, while diamide and NEM treatment caused inhibition of several other cytosolic enzymes tested. Arachidonic acid (AA) induced aggregation and secretion responses measured in platelets depleted of GSH by diamide and NEM were attenuated. In contrast, these platelet functions remained identical to control following GSH depletion by CDNB treatment, suggesting that GSH is not required for normal platelet aggregation or secretion. Effects of diamide and NEM apart from their action on GSH may account for the platelet dysfunction induced by these compounds.
Summary The effect of some factors influencing the metabolism of xenobiotics on the glutathione content as well as the glutathione S-transferase activities towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (aryl substrate) and 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)propane (epoxide substrate) were studied in rat liver cytosol. Metabolic inducers (phenobarbital, rifampicin, DDT) as well as fasting led to marked increases in both glutathione transferase activities. Partial hepatectomy, acute and chronic alcohol pretreatment, experimental diabetes and thyroid dysfunction resulted in a more or less pronounced increase in the epoxide transferase activity whereas the aryl transferase remained unaffected. Experimental cholestasis and liver pre-injury following the administration of CCl 4 decreased the glutathione S-transferase activity towards the epoxide substrate but not that towards the aryl substrate.
The enzymatic mechanisms involved in the degradation of phenanthrene by the white rot fungus Pleurotus ostreatus were examined. Phase I metabolism (cytochrome P-450 monooxygenase and epoxide hydrolase) and phase II conjugation (glutathione S-transferase, aryl sulfotransferase, UDP-glucuronosyltransferase, and UDP-glucosyltransferase) enzyme activities were determined for mycelial extracts of P. ostreatus. Cytochrome P-450 was detected in both cytosolic and microsomal fractions at 0.16 and 0.38 nmol min(sup-1) mg of protein(sup1), respectively. Both fractions oxidized [9,10-(sup14)C]phenanthrene to phenanthrene trans-9,10-dihydrodiol. The cytochrome P-450 inhibitors 1-aminobenzotriazole (0.1 mM), SKF-525A (proadifen, 0.1 mM), and carbon monoxide inhibited the cytosolic and microsomal P-450s differently. Cytosolic and microsomal epoxide hydrolase activities, with phenanthrene 9,10-oxide as the substrate, were similar, with specific activities of 0.50 and 0.41 nmol min(sup-1) mg of protein(sup-1), respectively. The epoxide hydrolase inhibitor cyclohexene oxide (5 mM) significantly inhibited the formation of phenanthrene trans-9,10-dihydrodiol in both fractions. The phase II enzyme 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene glutathione S-transferase was detected in the cytosolic fraction (4.16 nmol min(sup-1) mg of protein(sup-1)), whereas aryl adenosine-3(prm1)-phosphate-5(prm1)-phosphosulfate sulfotransferase (aryl PAPS sulfotransferase) UDP-glucuronosyltransferase, and UDP-glucosyltransferase had microsomal activities of 2.14, 4.25, and 4.21 nmol min(sup-1) mg of protein(sup-1), respectively, with low activity in the cytosolic fraction. However, when P. ostreatus culture broth incubated with phenanthrene was screened for phase II metabolites, no sulfate, glutathione, glucoside, or glucuronide conjugates of phenanthrene metabolites were detected. These experiments indicate the involvement of cytochrome P-450 monooxygenase and epoxide hydrolase in the initial phase I oxidation of phenanthrene to form phenanthrene trans-9,10-dihydrodiol. Laccase and manganese-independent peroxidase were not involved in the initial oxidation of phenanthrene. Although P. ostreatus had phase II xenobiotic metabolizing enzymes, conjugation reactions were not important for the elimination of hydroxylated phenanthrene.
Abstract The oxidative effects of sodium n -propylthiosulfate, one of the causative agents of onion-induced hemolytic anemia in dogs, were investigated in vitro using three types of canine erythrocytes, which are differentiated by the concentration of reduced glutathione and the composition of intracellular cations. After incubation with sodium n -propylthiosulfate, the methemoglobin concentration and Heinz body count in all three types of erythrocytes increased and a decrease in the erythrocyte reduced glutathione concentration was then observed. The erythrocytes containing high concentrations of potassium and reduced glutathione (approximately five times the normal values) were more susceptible to oxidative damage by sodium n -propylthiosulfate than were the normal canine erythrocytes. The susceptibility of the erythrocytes containing high potassium and normal reduced glutathione concentrations was intermediate between those of erythrocytes containing high concentrations of potassium and reduced glutathione and normal canine erythrocytes. In addition, the depletion of erythrocyte reduced glutathione by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene resulted in a marked decrease in the oxidative injury induced by sodium n -propylthiosulfate in erythrocytes containing high concentrations of potassium and reduced glutathione. The generation of superoxide in erythrocytes containing high concentrations of potassium and reduced glutathione was 4.1 times higher than that in normal canine erythrocytes when the cells were incubated with sodium n -propylthiosulfate. These observations indicate that erythrocyte reduced glutathione, which is known as an antioxidant, accelerates the oxidative damage produced by sodium n -propylthiosulfate.
Monobromobimane (mBBr), functions as a substrate of porcine glutathione S-transferase pi (GST pi): The enzyme catalyzes the reaction of mBBr with glutathione. S-(Hydroxyethyl)bimane, a nonreactive analog of monobromobimane, acts as a competitive inhibitor with respect to mBBr as substrate but does not affect the reaction of GST pi with another substrate, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). In the absence of glutathione, monobromobimane inactivates GST pi at pH 7.0 and 25 degrees C as assayed using mBBr as substrate, with a lesser effect on the enzyme's use of CDNB as substrate. These results indicate that the sites occupied by CDNB and mBBr are not identical. Inactivation is proportional to the incorporation of 2 moles of bimane/mole of subunit. Modification of GST pi with mBBr does not interfere with its binding of 8-anilino-1-naphthalene sulfonate, indicating that this hydrophobic site is not the target of monobromobimane. S-Methylglutathione and S-(hydroxyethyl)bimane each yield partial protection against inactivation and decrease reagent incorporation, while glutathionyl-bimane protects completely against inactivation. Peptide analysis after trypsin digestion indicates that mBBr modifies Cys45 and Cys99 equally. Modification of Cys45 is reduced in the presence of S-methylglutathione, indicating that this residue is at or near the glutathione binding region. In contrast, modification of Cys99 is reduced in the presence of S-(hydroxyethyl)bimane, suggesting that this residue is at or near the mBBr xenobiotic substrate binding site. Modification of Cys99 can best be understood by reaction with monobromobimane while it is bound to its xenobiotic substrate site in an alternate orientation. These results support the concept that glutathione S-transferase accomplishes its ability to react with a diversity of substrates in part by harboring distinct xenobiotic substrate sites.
Abstract The determination of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was used as a proof-of-concept to a simple analytical practical configuration applying magnetic molecularly imprinted particles (mag-MIPs). Mag-MIPs were captured from an emulsion by a home-made magneto-sensor (where a small magnet was entrapped by a graphite-epoxy composite) and then, this sensor, was transferred to the solution containing the analyte, where, after binding to the mag-MIPs, the analyte was directly analysed using differential pulse voltammetry (DPV) since the magneto-sensor acted as the working electrode. After optimization, a detection limit of 6.0 μmol L −1 with a RSD of 2.7% was achieved along with suitable recoveries and selectivity. This methodology offers a different approach for electroanalytical methodologies using mag-MIPs.
Abstract One of the proposed mechanisms for the cytotoxic effects of anthracycline compounds suggests that the effect is mediated through the formation of intracellular superoxide radicals. It is therefore possible that doxorubicin resistance is associated with increased intracellular enzyme capacity to convert these superoxide radicals to inactive metabolites. We have measured the relative activities of superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase, and catalase in P388 mouse leukemia cells and in a doxorubicin-resistant subline. Since oxygen-reactive metabolites also play a role in mediating the cytotoxicity of ionizing radiation, the radiosensitivity of both cell lines was also studied. No significant differences in superoxide dismutase activity between these cell lines was observed, indicating that they have a similar capacity to convert superoxide anion radicals to hydrogen peroxide. P388 cells that are resistant to doxorubicin have 1.5 times the glutathione content and 1.5 times the activity of glutathione peroxidase measured in drug-sensitive P388 cells. However, incubation with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, which covalently binds glutathione, had no effect on the sensitivity of either cell line to doxorubicin. Measured catalase activity in drug-resistant P388 cells was one-third of the activity measured in doxorubicin-sensitive P388 cells. The activity of this enzyme was much higher than that of glutathione peroxidase in terms of H 2 O 2 deactivation in both cell lines. It is therefore unlikely that doxorubicin-resistant P388 cells have an increased ability to detoxify reactive oxygen metabolites when compared to drug-sensitive cells. Doxorubicin-resistant P388 cells were significantly more sensitive to X-irradiation than were drug-sensitive P388 cells. These observations suggest that the difference in catalase activity in these cell lines may be associated with the observed differences in radiosensitivity.
Abstract The astigmatid mite Psoroptes ovis is the causative agent of sheep scab, a highly contagious parasitic disease of sheep. Infection causes severe allergic dermatitis, resulting in damage to the fleece and hide, loss of condition and occasional mortality. Interest in the P. ovis allergens led us to characterise a glutathione S-transferase (GST) which displays homology to GST allergens isolated from the house dust mite, Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus and the cockroach, Blatella germanica . A cDNA encoding a mu-class GST from P. ovis was expressed in Escherichia coli and the recombinant protein purified for biochemical analysis. SDS-PAGE analysis indicated that the purified product was homogeneous and had an apparent molecular weight of 30 kDa. The recombinant GST (rGST) is active towards the substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), whereas 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB) is a poor substrate. The recombinant protein was also tested for recognition by IgE and IgG antibodies in serum from P. ovis naive and P. ovis infested sheep. Neither IgE nor IgG antibodies were detected to the rGST. Prausnitz–Kustner testing with rGST did not provoke a characteristic weal and flare response. Biopsies collected at the PK test sites were stained for eosinophils, neutrophils, mast cells and basophils. Neutrophil, mast cell and basophil counts were not significantly different to the controls. Eosinophil numbers were significantly higher than controls, but were not due to an IgE response.
Abstract We compare the effects of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and phenazine methosulphate (PMS) on Gardos channel activity in normal human red cells. Both stimulate channel activity, both are dependent on the presence of extracellular Ca 2+ , and neither is affected by inhibitors of protein (de)phosphorylation. Of the two, PMS has a considerably greater effect. In addition, a major difference is that whilst CDNB has a greater stimulatory effect in oxygenated cells, by contrast, PMS is more effective in deoxygenated cells. These actions are correlated with ca. 30% inhibition of the plasma membrane Ca 2+ pump (PMCA) and an increased sensitivity of the Gardos channel to Ca 2+ (EC 50 falling to about 150 nM). These findings are important in understanding how oxidants alter red cell cation permeability and may be relevant to the abnormal permeability phenotype shown by deoxygenated sickle cells.
Disturbances in antioxidant defenses decrease cellular protection against oxidative stress and jeopardize cellular homeostasis. To knock down the antioxidant defenses of Pacific oyster Crassostrea gigas, animals were pre-treated with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and further challenged with pro-oxidant menadione (MEN). CDNB pre-treatment (10 μM for 18 h) was able to consume cellular thiols in gills, decreasing GSH (53%) and decrease protein thiols (25%). CDNB pre-treatment also disrupted glutathione reductase and thioredoxin reductase activity in the gills, but likewise strongly induced glutathione S-transferase activity (270% increase). Surprisingly, hemocyte viability was greatly affected 24 h after CDNB removal, indicating a possible vulnerability of the oyster immune system to electrophilic attack. New in vivo approaches were established, allowing the identification of higher rates of GSH-CDNB conjugate export to the seawater and enabling the measurement of the organic peroxide consumption rate. CDNB-induced impairment in antioxidant defenses decreased the peroxide removal rate from seawater. After showing that CDNB decreased gill antioxidant defenses and increased DNA damage in hemocytes, oysters were further challenged with 1 mM MEN over 24 h. MEN treatment did not affect thiol homeostasis in gills, while CDNB pre-treated animals recovered GSH and PSH to the control level after 24 h of depuration. Interestingly, MEN intensified GSH and PSH loss and mortality in CDNB-pre-treated animals, showing a clear synergistic effect. The superoxide-generating one-electron reduction of MEN was predominant in gills and may have contributed to MEN toxicity. These results support the idea that antioxidant-depleted animals are more susceptible to oxidative attack, which can compromise survival. Data also corroborate the idea that gills are an important detoxifying organ, able to dispose of organic peroxides, induce phase II enzymes, and efficiently export GSH-CDNB conjugates.
The AbGst1 gene encoding a glutathione transferase from the necrotrophic pathogen Alternaria brassicicola was cloned from a benzyl isothiocyanate-treated conidial culture using differential display reverse transcription. The deduced amino-acid sequence of AbGst1p showed a significant degree of similarity to glutathione transferase-I from Saccharomyces cerevisiae and glutathione transferase-III from Schizosaccharomyces pombe. The transcription of AbGst1 was significantly enhanced by isothiocyanates, heavy metals and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. However, no significant transcript response was obtained with superoxide-generating menadione and paraquat. Recombinant AbGst1p expressed in Escherichia coli exhibited high transferase activity with allyl and benzyl isothiocyanates as substrate compared with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, but no peroxidase activity was detected. AbGst1 was upregulated in planta during the first day postinfection, suggesting the potential involvement of this enzyme in isothiocyanate detoxification mechanisms during host plant infection.
, respectively. The epoxide hydrolase inhibitor cyclohexene oxide (5 mM) significantly inhibited the formation of phenanthrene trans-9,10-dihydrodiol in both fractions. The phase II enzyme 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene glutathione S-transferase was detected in the cytosolic fraction (4.16 nmol min ؊1 mg of protein
Abstract Glutathione transferases (GSTs) play important roles in stress tolerance and detoxification metabolism in plants. To date, studies on GSTs in higher plants have focused largely on agricultural plants. In contrast, there is virtually no information on the molecular characteristics of GSTs in gymnosperms. The present study reports for the first time the cloning, expression and characteristics of a GST gene (PtGSTU1) from a pine, Pinus tabulaeformis , which is widely distributed from northern to central China covering cold temperate and drought regions. The PtGSTU1 gene encodes a protein of 228 amino acid residues with a calculated molecular mass of 26.37 kDa. Reverse transcription PCR revealed that PtGSTU1 was expressed in different tissues, both above and below ground, of P. tabulaeformis . The over-expressed recombinant PtGSTU1 showed high activity towards the substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and 7-chloro-4-nitrobenzo-2-oxa-1,3-diazole (NBD-Cl). Kinetic analysis with respect to CDNB as substrate revealed a K m of 0.47 mM and V max of 169.1 μmol/min per mg of protein. The recombinant PtGSTU1 retained more than 60% of its maximum enzymatic activity from 15°C to 45°C with a broad optimum T m range of 25°C - 35°C. The enzyme had a maximum activity at approximately pH 8.5 - 9.0. Site-directed mutagenesis revealed that Ser13 in the N-terminal domain is a critical catalytic residue, responsible for stabilisation of the thiolate anion of enzyme-bound glutathione. Based on comparative analyses of its amino acid sequence, phylogeny and predicted three-dimensional structure, the PtGSTU1 should be classified as a tau class GST.
Growing cells of Tetrahymena thermophila (T. t.) metabolized, after 72 h, 80% of isosorbide dinitrate (ISDN) to isosorbide 5-mononitrate (5-ISMN) and isosorbide 2-mononitrate (2-ISMN) in a ratio 5-ISMN/2-ISMN=2.6 as evaluated by HPLC. The level of glutathione S-transferases (GSH-ST) determined by following the reactions with of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), o-dinitrobenzene (o-DNB) or ISDN, showed the inductive effect of ISDN (0.5 mg/ml) on the level of this enzyme. The enzymatic activity, evaluated at 72 h, showed a twofold increase compared with the control. The GSH-ST activity correlated well with the rate of ISDN bioconversion.
Components of garlic have been shown to inhibit a variety of tumors induced by chemical carcinogens. In this study we determined the effects of ajoene and diallyl sulfide (DAS), two organosulfur compounds of garlic, on the metabolism and DNA binding of aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) using rat liver 9000Xg supernatant as the metabolic activation system. Organosoluble and water-soluble metabolites of [3H]AFB1 were isolated by reverse-phase high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The effects of ajoene and DAS on glutathione-S-transferase (GST) were determined using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as the substrate. Ajoene and DAS at 100 mg/ml inhibited [3H]AFB1 binding to calf thymus DNA and adduct formation. They decreased the formation of both organosoluble and water-soluble metabolites of [3H]AFB1. Neither compound significantly affected GST activity. These results indicate that ajoene and DAS affected AFB1 metabolism and DNA binding by inhibiting phase I enzymes and may therefore be considered as potential cancer chemopreventive agents.
Objective. Oxidative stress might be the reason for endothelial dysfunction in preeclampsia. The glutathione—peroxidase system is one of the primary antioxidants in the endothelium. We tested the effect of oxidative stress by reduction of glutathione availability on the secretion of vasoactive substances in endothelial cells.Methods. Endothelial cells in culture were incubated with different concentrations of buthionine-[S,R]-sulfoximine (BSO) or 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), both leading to a reduced intracellular availability of glutathione. The secretion of the vasoactive substances nitric oxide (NO), endothelin-I (ET-1), and prostacyclin (PGI2) was measured with respect to vitality and proliferation rate of the endothelial cells in culture.Main Outcome Measure. Effect of oxidative stress on the secretion of vasoactive substances from endothelial cells.Results. The oxidants CDNB and BSO have (in concentrations before evidence of cytotoxicity) a stimulating effect on the production of PGI2, they i...
Glutathione S-transferase activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was detected in various developmental stages of Drosophila melanogaster. The specific activity of the enzyme was 110, 35, 25 and 15 nmol/min/mg protein in crude extracts prepared from eggs, larvae, pupae and adult stages respectively. The enzymes from larval, pupal and adult stages were purified and compared. Incorporation of the widely used herbicide oxadiazolone at concentrations of 375 and 563 part/million into the culture media caused 4- and 2.5-fold increase in the enzyme activity in pupal and adult stages respectively.
Glutatione transferases (RX:glutathione R-transferases, EC 2.5.1.18) B and AA were purified from rat liver to investigate the mechanism for their apparent GSH peroxidase activity (GSSG formation). Both transferases catalyze an overall reaction in which loss of cumene hydroperoxide is accompanied by a stoichiometric increase in GSSG. Inclusion of cysteamine, a thiol, results in a reduction of GSSG formation but has no effect on hydroperoxide loss. Cysteamine does not inhibit the transferase-catalyzed conjugation of GSH and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Peroxidase reactions carried out in the presence of cyanide, another nucleophile, also result in a reduction of GSSG formation without altering the rate of cumene hydroperoxide loss; cyanide does not inhibit transferase activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Both cysteamine and cyanide are capable of blocking GSSG formation in the non-enzymic oxidation of GSH by hydrogen peroxide without blocking H2O2 loss. These results are consistent with a mechanism for GSH transferases in which nucleophilic attack by GS- on hydroperoxide results in a reactive intermediate, presumably the sulfenic acid of glutathione, GSOH. GSH + ROOH in equilibrium GSHO + ROH (1) This sulfenic acid then reacts non-enzymically with GSH to produce GSSG. GSOH + GSH in equilibrium GSSG + H2O (2) The summing of Reactions 1 and 2 explains the observed stoichiometry. Cysteamine and cyanide can compete with GSH for the sulfenic acid in Reaction 2, thus reducing GSSG formation. Thios.
Abstract The anion of N-phenylsydnone, which can be generated on treatment of N-phenylsydnone with cyanomethyllithium without decomposition, can be represented as tripolar zwitterionic and as anionic N-heterocyclic carbene resonance forms. Its palladium complex was prepared from 4-bromo-3-phenylsydnone and tetrakis(triphenylphosphine)palladium and proved to be active as catalyst in Suzuki-Miyaura reactions. Thus, 2,5-dibromo-3,4-dinitrothiophene was effectively converted into 2,5-diaryl-3,4-dinitrothiophenes with 1-naphthyl, (4-trifluoromethoxy)phenyl, [4-(methylsulfanyl)phenyl], and biphenyl-4-yl boronic acid. 3-(Phenanthren-9-yl)quinoline was prepared by Suzuki-Miyaura reaction starting from 3-bromoquinoline. 1-Chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene cross-coupled with phenyl boronic acid, 1-naphthyl boronic acid, 9-phenanthryl boronic acid. 4-Bromobenzylic alcohol gave (4-isopropylphenyl)methanol on sydnone-palladium complex-catalyzed reaction with isopropyl boronic acid.
Abstract [ 14 C]Bromobenzene was incubated with NADPH-fortified liver homogenates from phenobarbital-treated rats, after which the glutathione S -transferases were isolated from the incubation mixture. Glutathione S -transferase activity, with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as the substrate, in the homogenate was unchanged after incubation with bromobenzene. Radioactivity derived from the [ 14 C]bromobenzene remained associated with the cytosolic glutathione S -transferases after DE52 and Sephadex G-100 chromatography. Further purification of the cytosolic glutathione S -transferase by CM52 and hydroxylapatite chromatography showed that bromobenzene metabolites were bound to fractions containing glutathione S -transferase subunits 4, 5, and 1. The primary site of arylation appeared to be subunit 1, as indicated by autoradiography and hydroxylapatite chromatography. [ 14 C]Bromobenzene metabolites were not bound to microsomal glutathione S -transferases, These data show that hepatic cytosolic glutathione S -transferases, especially glutathione S -transferases 4-4/5-5, 3-4, and 1-1 may act as trapping or scavenger proteins for reactive metabolites and that this effect is not associated with a loss of catalytic activity.
A full-length cDNA clone for a novel glutathione S-transferase was isolated from Arabidopsis thaliana and characterized. The cDNA encodes a polypeptide of 218 amino acids with a calculated molecular mass of 24,363 Da. The sequence was most related to the theta class within the glutathione-S-transferase superfamily of enzymes. The protein encoded by the cDNA was functionally expressed and enzymically active in Escherichia coli; glutathione-S-transferase activity with the standard enzyme substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was demonstrated (apparent Km, 10 mM; apparent Km for glutathione, 0.08 mM). The enzyme is substrate specific and did not use several electrophilic reduced-glutathione acceptor molecules for conjugation. However, it efficiently catalyzed the conversion of 13-hydroperoxy-9,11,15-octadecatrienoic acid (Km, 0.67 mM) as well as 13-hydroperoxy-9,11-octadecadienoic acid (Km, 0.79 mM) to the corresponding hydroxy derivatives with concomitant formation of oxidized glutathione. The enzyme did not use H2O2 as substrate. Thus, the cloned A. thaliana enzyme functions as glutathione peroxidase and, in the plant cell, may be involved in the removal of reactive organic hydroperoxides, such as the products of lipid peroxidation. The enzyme is structurally and enzymatically, however, unrelated to the selenium-containing glutathione peroxidases. Enzymic and immunoblotting data suggest that the A. thaliana enzyme is soluble and constitutively expressed in vegetative rosettes, but is under developmental control during the transition to bolting and flowering.
Glutathione transferase (GT) activity towards trans-stilbene oxide (tSBO), benzo[a]pyrene-4,5-oxide (B[a]PO) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was measured in human liver and lymphocytes. GT-tSBO activity is catalyzed by GT mu which has polymorphic expression in human lymphocytes. Our results show that activity of GT-tSBO in lymphocytes correlates with its activity in liver (r = 0.7, P less than 0.001). GT activity towards BPO (GT-BPO) also correlated with GT-tSBO in lymphocytes and liver. However, interindividual variation of GT-BPO is less than that of GT-tSBO, suggesting that BPO may not be as specific a substrate for GT mu and therefore other GT isozymes may contribute to BPO conjugation. Conjugation of CDNB by GT was not different using cytosols from either high or low GT mu individuals. The functional significance of the GT-mu polymorphism was evaluated by measuring its effect on benzo[a]pyrene (B[a]P)- and aflatoxin B1 (AFB1)-DNA adduct formation in vitro. Human liver cytosols prepared from persons having low or high GT-tSBO activity were incubated with human liver microsomes, calf thymus DNA and B[a]P or AFB1. HPLC analysis revealed that the major B[a]P adduct was dG(N2)-7 beta, 8 alpha-trihydroxy-7,8,9,10-tetrahydrobenzo[a]pyrene (BPDE-dG). BPDE-dG adducts were decreased equally by cytosols from either low or high conjugators. In contrast, AFB1-DNA binding was inhibited to a greater extent in high conjugators than low conjugators. HPLC analysis demonstrates that adducts formed were AFB1-FAPyr and AFB1-N7-Gua. The correlation between AFB1-DNA adduct concentrations and GT mu activity was highly significant with a correlation coefficient of r = 0.88 at P less than 0.001. These results suggest that GT mu plays an important role in detoxifying DNA reactive metabolites of AFB1 and this enzyme may be a susceptibility marker for AFB1 related liver cancer. Moreover, our data demonstrate that lymphocytes are a reliable surrogate tissue for detecting liver GT mu polymorphisms.
Aim and Background. Earthworms have been studied as a readily available, easily maintainable and cheap test species for assessing chemical pollution, and may be an alternative to in vivo rodent bioassays. The current investigation aims to characterize detoxification enzymes in Eisenia fetida and stress response against two herbicides with different modes of action, namely, fenoxaprop and metolachlor. Methods. Herbicides were applied to soil containing earthworms. Animals were then collected, sacrificed and shock-frozen. Extracted protein was analyzed for glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity using CDNB (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene), DCNB (1,2dichloro-4-nitrobenzene), pNBC (p-nitrobenzylchloride), PNOBC (p-nitrobenz-o-ylchloride) and selected herbicides. GST isoenzymes were partially purified by affinity chromatography and molecular weights were estimated by SDS-PAGE. Results. In E. fetida protein extracts, GST activity towards model compounds ranked as CDNB>DCNB>PNBOC>PNBC. Fluorodifen was not conjugated at all, but fenoxaprop and metolachlor were conjugated at low rates. Furthermore, the GST isoenzyme pattern changed during the incubation with herbicides, either due to stress or as a defense reaction. After incubation with monochlorobimane, a strong fluorescence of the intestinal tract and the intersegments was observed, indicating organ-specific GST induction. Discussion. According to the author's knowledge, here, for the first time, evidence is presented that E. fetida GST are also capable of conjugating a wider range of xenobiotic substrates. Different forms of GST were observed and changes in GST isoforms due to the herbicide treatment were also noticed. GST conjugation rates varied between different herbicides used in this experiment. It might be assumed that herbicides may well be detoxified by earthworms, to a certain extent, but that they are also potent stress factors influencing the detoxification system of the animal. High doses or long exposure might lead to deleterious effects on earthworms and limit their survival rate. The use of the animals as bioindicators for herbicides and herbicide residues seems very promising, but is surely influenced by the lack of detoxification for some compounds.
Abstract Mechanisms for resistance were studied in three classic type, human small cell lung cancer cell lines, GLC 14 , GLC 16 , and GLC 19 , that were established from one patient during clinical follow-up. Clinically the tumor changed from sensitive (GLC 14 ) to completely resistant to (chemo)therapy (GLC 19 ) during this period. The stain with JSB-1 antibody, detecting the M r 170,000 multidrug resistance associated glycoprotein, was most pronounced in GLC 16 and absent in GLC 19 . Intracellular Adriamycin (Adr) concentrations were decreased in GLC 16 and GLC 19 versus GLC 14 . Glutathione levels were 12.9, 15.5, and 16.6 µg/mg protein; total sulfhydryl groups were 36.5, 45.7, and 48.8 µg/mg protein; and glutathione S -transferase activity was 13, 29, and 43 nmol 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene/min/mg protein for GLC 14 , GLC 16 , and GLC 19 , respectively. Incubation with dl-buthionine- S,R -sulfoximine increased Adr and cisplatin induced cytotoxicity, whereas X-ray induced cytotoxicity remained the same. Catalase activity increased from 0.88 to 1.73 to 3.83 µmol H 2 O 2 /min/mg protein in, respectively, GLC 14 , GLC 16 , and GLC 19 . Compared to GLC 14 and GLC 16 , Adr induced a higher amount of DNA strand breaks in GLC 19 . In none of the three cell lines could Adr induced DNA strand breaks be repaired. X-ray induced a comparable amount of DNA strand breaks in all three cell lines but all cell lines were capable of repairing the X-ray induced DNA strand breaks within 90 min. It is concluded that a number of different mechanisms are operative and that some but not all of the observed changes in mechanisms for drug resistance in these lines correlate with the clinical data.
The invention discloses an ultraviolet colorimetric method for simply rapidly detecting L-cysteine. The method is based on a reaction that L-cysteine and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene are reacted in boiling water bath to rapidly generate a yellow complex, and also hexadecyl trimethyl ammonium bromide is capable of accelerating the reaction efficiency. 20 mu M of L-cysteine in the reaction can be detected by naked eyes. The detection limit by employing an ultraviolet detector is 0.5 mu M. The method has the advantages of being simple and convenient in operation, short in consume time, rapid, specific, visual by naked eyes, sensitive, economic and the like.
Ascorbic acid may be involved in the defense against oxidant stress in endothelial cells. Such a role requires that the cells effectively recycle the vitamin from its oxidized forms. In this work, we studied the ability of cultured bovine aortic endothelial cells (BAECs) to take up and reduce dehydroascorbic acid (DHA) to ascorbate, as well as the dependence of ascorbate recycling on intracellular GSH. BAECs took up and reduced DHA to ascorbate much more readily than they took up ascorbate. Although BAECs in culture did not contain ascorbate, ascorbate accumulated to concentrations of 2-3 mM in BAECs following incubation with 400 microM DHA. Extracellular ferricyanide oxidized intracellular ascorbate, which was recycled by the cells. Reduction of DHA, either when added to the cells or when generated in response to ferricyanide, caused significant decreases in intracellular GSH concentrations. Depletion of intracellular GSH with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, diethylmaleate, and diamide almost abolished the ability of the cells to reduce DHA to ascorbate. DHA reduction by thioredoxin reductase was evident in dialyzed cell extracts, but occurred at rates far lower than direct GSH reduction of DHA. These results suggest that maximal rates of DHA reduction, and thus recycling of ascorbate from DHA, are dependent upon GSH in these cells.
CM-cellulose chromatography of rat liver and kidney cytosol at pH6 reveals the presence of a second Ya-subunit dimer of glutathione S-transferase (GST-F) in addition to the recently described GST-YaYa (GST-L; our nomenclature) [Hayes & Clarkson (1982) Biochem. J. 207, 459-470]. The two forms are structurally similar (by the criteria of CNBr- and Staphylococcus-V8-proteinase-cleavage peptide maps), and both are sensitive to inhibition by haemin. However, their kinetic parameters with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene are quite distinct, and they show differential inducibility by phenobarbitone. These results suggest a similar heterogeneity in Ya-subunits to that previously described for Yb-subunits of glutathione S-transferase and indicate that significant gene duplication may have occurred in these multifunctional intracellular binding proteins.
There are two enzymes in rat liver with glutathione peroxidase activity when cumene hydroperoxide is used as substrate. One is the selenium-requiring glutathione peroxidase (glutathione:hydrogen-peroxide oxidoreductase, EC 1.11.1.9) and the other appears to be independent of dietary selenium. Activities of the two enzymes vary greatly among tissues and among animals. The molecular weight of the enzyme with selenium-independent glutathione peroxidase activity was estimated by gel filtration to be 35 000, and the subunit molecular weight was estimated by dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis to be 17 000. Double reciprocal plots of enzyme activity as a function of substrate concentration produced intersecting lines which are suggestive of a sequential reaction mechanism. The Km for glutathione was 0.20 mM and the Km for cumene hydroperoxide was 0.57 mM. The enzyme was inhibited by N-ethylmaleimide, but not by iodoacetic acid. Inhibition by cyanide was competitive with respect to glutathione and the Ki for cyanide was 0.95 mM. This selenium-independent glutathione peroxidase also catalyzes the conjugation of glutathione to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Along with other similarities to glutathione S-transferase, this suggests that the selenium-independent glutathione peroxidase and glutathione S-transferase activities in rat liver are of the same enzyme.
A glutathione-S-transferase was isolated and purified to homogeneity from human platelets. With a combination of ammonium sulfate fractionation and chromatographic methods, 0.2 mg of pure enzyme was obtained from 9 X 10(11) platelets with a 12% recovery. The purified enzyme had a specific activity of 7.5 U per milligram, representing an approximately 1,100-fold purification. The enzyme was found to be anionic, with an isoelectric point of 4.6. With reduced glutathione as a co-substrate, platelet glutathione-S-transferase was most active with the synthetic substrate, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, less active with 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, and essentially inactive with nitroglycerin and 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)-propane. The pH optimum for activity with glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was 7.0. Indomethacin (1-(p-chlorobenzoyl)-5-methoxy-2-methyindole-3-acetic acid), a chlorobenzene derivative, noncompetitively inhibited human platelet glutathione-S-transferase with an apparent KI of 0.23 mmol/L. This study represents the first complete purification and characterization of a glutathione-S-transferase from platelets. The presence of this enzyme in the platelet, within which high concentrations of reduced glutathione coexist, suggests the potential importance of the platelet in detoxification reactions and in the synthesis of the glutathione adducts of leukotriene metabolism.
When mice were exposed to 1% 2-ethylhexanoic acid in the diet, cytosolic and microsomal epoxide hydrolase (EC 3.3.2.3) activities were increased maximally (2-2.5- and 0.5-1-fold, respectively) after 3 days. Immunochemical quantitation of these enzymes indicated that the process involved was a true induction in both cases. Maximal levels of peroxisome proliferation (as indicated by carnitine acetyltransferase activity) were obtained after 7 days of exposure. All three of these activities returned to control levels within 4 days after termination of the treatment. The liver somatic index was slightly increased after 4 days of administration of 1% 2-ethylhexanoic acid, but the protein contents of the "mitochondrial," microsomal, and cytosolic fractions were unaffected. The activity of peroxisomal palmitoyl-CoA beta-oxidation was increased 2-fold, whereas peroxisomal catalase activity was unaffected. Exposure to 2-ethylhexanoic acid also increased cytochrome oxidase activity, suggesting an effect on mitochondria. Other parameters of detoxication--i.e. total microsomal cytochrome P-450 content, cytosolic glutathione transferase activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, and the "cytosolic" epoxide hydrolase activity localized in the "mitochondrial" fraction--were not affected by 4 days of treatment with 1% 2-ethylhexanoic acid.
Abstract In the present study, an epsilon glutathione S -transferase from the beet armyworm Spodoptera exigua (SeGSTe) was cloned and characterized. The SeGSTe gene consists of 746 bp full-length cDNA with a 669 bp open reading frame encoding a predicted protein of 223 amino acid residues weighing 24.517 kDa and an isoelectric point of 6.44. Furthermore, sequence analysis of SeGSTe showed 90% sequence identity to Spodoptera litura GSTe2 and 47–36% to other insect GSTs. Phylogenetic relationship analysis further revealed that SeGSTe is a novel member of the Epsilon-class of GSTs. During S. exigua development, SeGSTe is expressed in the midgut of the prepupa stage but not in the epidermis and fat body. Recombinant SeGSTe (25 kDa) purified from baculovirus-infected insect cells was able to protect super-coiled DNA from oxidative damage. It was also able to catalyze the conjugation of both 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB), but not 4-nitrobenzyl chloride (4-NBC) and 4-nitrophenethyl bromide (4-NPB), to glutathione (GSH). Additionally, recombinant SeGSTe exhibited an optimal pH of 6.0 and an optimal temperature of 40 °C. The enzyme activity of recombinant SeGSTe was sensitive to heavy metals Cu 2 + and Cd 2 + and was significantly inhibited by various kinds of pesticides including insecticide, herbicide, and fungicide. Taken together, these findings suggest that the SeGSTe may be involved in the detoxification of pesticides and protecting S. exigua against oxidative stress, which provides a molecular basis for understanding the mechanisms of insecticide resistance in S. exigua .
The occurrence and activation of glutathione S-transferase (GST) and the GST activities in biofilms in cold sulfidic spring waters were compared to the occurrence and activation of GST and the GST activities of the aquatic fungal strains EH5 and EH7 of Mucor hiemalis isolated for the first time from such waters. Using fluorescently labeled polyclonal anti-GST antibodies and GST activity measurements, we demonstrated that a high level of GST occurred in situ in natural biofilms and pure cultures of strain EH5. Measurement of microsomal and cytosolic soluble GST activities using different xenobiotic substrates, including 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, 1,2-epoxy-3-(4-nitrophenoxy)propane, 1-iodo-2,4-dinitrobenzene, and fluorodifen, showed that the overall biotransforming abilities of biofilms were at least sixfold greater than that of strain EH5 alone. Increasing the level of sodium thiosulfate (STS) in the medium stimulated the microsomal and cytosolic GST activities with CDNB of strain EH5 about 44- and 94-fold, respectively, compared to the activities in the control. The induction of microsomal GST activity with fluorodifen by STS was strongly linear, but the initial strong linear increase in cytosolic GST activity with fluorodifen showed saturation-like effects at STS concentrations higher than approximately 1 mM. Using laser scanning confocal and conventional fluorescence microscopy, abundant fluorescently labeled GST proteins were identified in germinating sporangiospores of strain EH5 after activation by STS. High-performance size exclusion chromatography and sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis revealed the presence of at least two main GSTs ( approximately 27.8- and approximately 25.6-kDa subunits) in the cytosol of EH5, whereas the major 27.8-kDa subunit was the only GST in microsomes. We suggest that differential cellular GST expression takes place in strain EH5 depending on spore and hyphal development. Our results may contribute to our understanding of induction of GST by sulfurous compounds, as well as to the immunofluorescence visualization of GST in aquatic fungus and fungus-bacterium biofilms.
Glutathione metabolism plays a fundamental role in maintaining homeostasis and regulating the redox environment of a cell. Despite the widespread interest in quantifying glutathione metabolites in oxidative stress research, conventional techniques are hampered by complicated sample handling procedures to prevent significant oxidation artifacts generated during sample collection, sample pretreatment, and/or chemical analysis. In this report, a simple and validated method for glutathione analysis from filtered red blood cell (RBC) lysates was developed using capillary electrophoresis-electrospray ionization-mass spectrometry (CE-ESI-MS) in conjunction with fingerprick microsampling and ultrafiltration. About a 3-fold improvement in precision with nanomolar detection limits was achieved when using online sample preconcentration with CE-ESI-MS via a modified injection sequence, which permitted accurate determination of the intracellular reduced/oxidized glutathione ratio (GSH/GSSG), as well as other glutathione species, including protein-bound glutathione mixed disulfide (PSSG), free glutathione mixed disulfides (GSSR) and glutathione thioether conjugates (GSX). In this work, the redox status of filtered hemolysates was determined by the equilibrium half-cell reduction potential for glutathione (E(GSSG/2GSH)), whereas its intrinsic antioxidant capacity was assessed by the apparent rate of metal-catalyzed oxidation of glutathione. In-vitro incubation studies of intact RBCs with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC) were found to significantly alter E(GSSG/2GSH) and/or glutathione oxidation kinetics (e.g., k(GSSG)) relative to normal controls based on their function as a toxic electrophilic compound and a competitive free radical scavenging/reducing agent, respectively. Differential rates of glutathione oxidation (DIRGO) using CE-ESI-MS offers a novel strategy for global assessment of the impact of intrinsic metabolite constituents (i.e., metabolome) and/or extrinsic perturbants on cellular redox status that is relevant to improved understanding of aging and the pathogenesis of acute or chronic disease states.
Plant elongation factor EF-1 consists of four subunits (EF-1alphabetabeta'gamma). EF-1alpha. GTP catalyses the binding of aminoacyl-tRNA to the ribosome. EF-1beta and EF-1beta' catalyze the GDP/GTP exchange on EF-1alpha. GDP. However, the function of EF-1gamma, a subunit detected in eukaryotes, but not in prokaryotes remained unknown. This report demonstrates that rice EF-1betabeta'gamma and recombinant EF-1gamma possess glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity. The EF-1betabeta'gamma- or EF-1gamma-dependent GST activity is about one-fiftieth of the rice GST activity. The Km values of EF-1betabeta'gamma, EF-1gamma, and rice GST for glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene are of about the same order. Although recombinant EF-1gamma is heat labile, active EF-1gamma was obtained by purifying it in the presence of 20% glycerol.
The expression of glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity in wheat and maize shoots was investigated in response to treatments with the herbicide safeners benoxacor, cloquintocet-mexyl, fenchlorazole-ethyl, fenclorim, fluxofenim and oxabetrinil. These safeners significantly enhanced the GST activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as a 'standard' substrate, with the exception of oxabetrinil in maize. The enhancements of GST (CDNB) activity were found to be concomitant with increases in V(max) (the reaction rate when the enzyme is fully saturated by the substrate) in wheat following cloquintocet-mexyl and fenchlorazole-ethyl treatments, and in maize following fenchlorazole-ethyl treatment. Otherwise, decreases in V(max) were observed in wheat and maize following fenclorim and fluxofenim treatments. With the exception of oxabetrinil, all the safeners significantly reduced the apparent K(M) (the substrate concentration required for 50% of maximum GST activity) of both wheat and maize GST. The V(max) and K(M) variations following safener treatments are discussed in terms of an increased expression of GST enzymes and an increased affinity for the CDNB substrate. The activity of wheat and maize GST was also assayed towards butachlor and terbuthylazine respectively; the results indicate the ability of cloquintocet-mexyl, fenchlorazole-ethyl and fluxofenim to enhance the enzyme activity in wheat and of benoxacor and fenchlorazole-ethyl to do so in maize.
The antiproliferative and proapoptotic effects of pomegranate extract (PE), as correlated with its prooxidant activity, were studied. PE exerted greater antiproliferative effects towards cancer, than to normal, cells, isolated from the human oral cavity. In cell-free systems, PE generated hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) in cell culture media and in phosphate buffered saline, with prooxidant activity increasing from acidic to alkaline pH, and oxidized glutathione (GSH) in an alkaline, phosphate buffer. Detection of PE-generated H(2)O(2) was greatly lessened in medium amended with N-acetyl-L-cysteine. Using HSC-2 carcinoma cells as the bioindicator, the cytotoxicity of PE was potentiated towards cells pretreated with the GSH depleter, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, and attenuated in cells co-treated with the H(2)O(2) scavengers, catalase, pyruvate, and divalent cobalt ion. Intracellular GSH was lessened in cells treated with PE; GSH depletion in PE-treated cells was confirmed visually with the fluorescent dye, Cell Tracker™ Green 5-chloromethylfluorescein diacetate. These studies demonstrated that the antiproliferative mechanism of PE was, in part, by induction of oxidative stress. The mode of cell death was by apoptosis, as shown by flow cytometry, activation of caspase-3, and cleavage of PARP. Lessening of caspase-3 activation and of PARP cleavage in cells co-treated with PE and either cobalt or pyruvate, respectively, as compared to PE alone, indicated that apoptosis was through the prooxidant nature of PE.
Three spectrophotometric methods have been described for the determination of nabumetone (NAB) in its tablets dosage form. The methods are based on the reaction of nabumetone with three dinitrobenzene reagents, namely, m-dinitrobenzene (DNB), 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and 1-fluoro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (FDNB) in alkaline medium (alcoholic potassium hydroxide solution). The studied reactions depend on the tendency of these dinitrobenzene reagents to react with the active methylene adjacent to the carbonyl group of the drug. Illustrative proposed pathways showing the reaction of NAB with the three dinitrobenzene reagents were presented. Spectrophotometric measurements were achieved by recording the absorbances at 580, 573 and 574 nm for the reaction with DNB, CDNB and FDNB respectively. Different experimental parameters affecting development and stability of the produced colors were optimized. The three methods were validated with respect to linearity, ranges, precision, accuracy and limits of detection and quantification. Beer’s law was obeyed in the concentration ranges of 2-10, 40-240 and 10-50 µg/mL for DNB, CDNB and FDNB methods respectively with correlation coefficient values not less than 0.9994. In addition, detection limits of NAB were 0.27, 8.54 and 2.04 µg/mL for DNB, CDNB and FDNB methods, respectively. The proposed methods were successfully applied for assay of the drug in its tablets dosage form. Recovery data obtained by the proposed methods were favorably compared with those obtained by a reported spectrophotometric method.
Abstract The corn glutathione S -transferase (GST) enzyme(s) that is active with trans -cinnamic acid appears to require an endogenous low M r activator(s) since 59% of this GST activity is lost following desalting of crude extracts. Desalting had very little effect on the corn GST enzyme(s) that is active with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). The in vitro activity of the GST ( trans -cinnamic acid) activity purified through anion-exchange chromatography was increased 2.6- and 6.4-fold by the addition of 50 μM p -coumaric acid and 7-hydroxycoumarin, respectively. In contrast, p -coumaric acid and 7-hydroxycoumarin did not activate the GST (CDNB) activity. During the purification of GST enzymes from etiolated corn shoots, only one peak of GST ( trans -cinnamic acid) activity was detected in the anion-exchange chromatography elution profile, however, when p -coumaric acid or 7-hydroxycoumarin were added to the in vitro assays, the initial peak of GST activity was enhanced and several additional peaks of GST ( trans -cinnamic acid) activity were observed.
The toxicological and biochemical characteristics of glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) in the resistant and susceptible strains of Liposcelis bostrychophila were investigated. The two resistant strains were the dichlorvos-resistant strain (DDVP-R) and PH 3 -resistant strain (PH 3 -R), and the resistance factors were 22.36 and 4.51, respectively. Compared with their susceptible counterparts, the activities per insect and specific activities of GSTs in DDVP-R and PH 3 -R were significantly higher. The apparent Michaelis-Menten constant values (K m ) for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) were obviously lower in DDVP-R and PH 3 -R (i.e. lower K m values, 1.5625 mM for DDVP-R and 0.6230 mM for PH 3 -R) when compared with their susceptible counterpart (K m = 3.5520), indicating a higher affinity to the substrate CDNB in resistant strains. In contrast, the catalytic activity of GSTs towards CDNB in the susceptible strain was significantly higher than those in resistant strains. It was noticeable that when reduced glutathione (GSH) was used as substrate, GSTs from resistant strains both indicated a significantly declined affinity. For the catalytic activity of GSTs towards GSH, only the V max value in DDVP-R increased significantly compared with that from the susceptible strain, suggesting an overexpression of GST in this resistant strain. The inhibition kinetics of insecticides to GSTs in vitro revealed that dichlorvos and paraoxon possessed excellent inhibition effects on GSTs. The susceptible strain showed higher sensitivity (I 50 = 0.9004 mM) to dichlorvos than DDVP-R and PH 3 -R (higher I 50 s, 8.0955 mM for DDVP-R and 9.3346 mM for PH 3 -R). As for paraoxon, there was a similar situation. The resistant strains both suggested a higher I 50 (1.8735 mM for DDVP-R, and 0.4291 mM for PH 3 -R) compared with the susceptible strain (0.2943 mM). These suggested that an elevated detoxification ability of GSTs developed in the resistant strains.
Abstract ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters are thought to be involved in many cellular detoxification mechanisms. Performing a BLAST search, we found four distinct expressed sequence tags (EST) of Arabidopsis thaliana highly similar to the human and fungal glutathione-conjugate ABC transporters. We studied the expression of the corresponding genes in response to various xenobiotics in an effort to gain information on their function. The abundance of transcripts corresponding to one of the genes (EST1) was not affected by the various compounds tested, whereas the abundance of transcripts corresponding to the other three genes (EST2, EST3, EST4) was increased by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, primisulfuron and IRL 1803. Treatment of Arabidopsis with either primisufuron or IRL 1803 resulted in a more than 40-fold increase in EST2-specific transcripts.
Abstract The regulation of purified glutathione S -transferase from rat liver microsomes was studied by examining the effects of various sulfhydryl reagents on enzyme activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as the substrate. Diamide (4 m m ), cystamine (5 m m ), and N -ethylmaleimide (1 m m ) increased the microsomal glutathione S -transferase activity by 3-, 2-, and 10-fold, respectively, in absence of glutathione; glutathione disulfide had no effect. In presence of glutathione, microsomal glutathione S -transferase activity was increased 10-fold by diamide (0.5 m m ), but the activation of the transferase by N -ethylmaleimide or cystamine was only slightly affected by presence of glutathione. The activation of microsomal glutathione S -transferase by diamide or cystamine was reversed by the addition of dithiothreitol. Glutathione disulfide increased microsomal glutathione S -transferase activity only when membrane-bound enzyme was used. These results indicate that microsomal glutathione S -transferase activity may be regulated by reversible thiol/disulfide exchange and that mixed disulfide formation of the microsomal glutathione S -transferase with glutathione disulfide may be catalyzed enzymatically in vivo .
Previous studies from our laboratory have shown that aspartic acid 101 plays an important role in glutathione interaction to rat glutathione S-transferase YaYa, while tyrosine 9 is directly involved in catalysis. Based on the available structural information, site-directed mutagenesis was conducted to examine the function of arginine, lysine, glutamine, and proline residues surrounding the GSH binding pocket. Arginine mutants R13K, R15K, R20K, and R20I retained partial enzymatic activities, while R13I and R15I lost most of their activities. Kinetic studies showed a marked increase in Km toward GSH for R15I suggesting that arginine 15 contributes significantly to the binding of GSH in the active site of glutathione S-transferase YaYa. A drastic decrease in enzymatic activities for R13I suggested the importance of the charged group of arginine 13 either in maintaining the structural integrity of the enzyme or in serving a vital role in enzymatic function. Replacement of glutamine 54 and 67 with glutamic acid or asparagine resulted in decreased enzymatic activities. Moreover, an 11-, 17-, and 9-fold increase in Km values toward GSH for mutant Q54E, Q54N, and Q67N was observed, respectively. These results suggested that glutamine 54 and 67 also contributed significantly to the binding of GSH. Proline at position 56 appears to be important for maintaining the structural integrity of the enzyme since mutants P56A and P56F were much less active and extremely less stable than that of the wild type enzyme. Both lysine mutants, K45R and K45I, exhibited substantially higher catalytic efficiencies toward both 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and GSH than the wild type enzyme. Our data clearly show that lysine 45 is not an essential residue for catalysis nor for GSH binding in glutathione S-transferase YaYa.
The reactions of 2-nitrotoluene, 1-chloro-2-nitrobenzene, and 1-chloro-4-nitrobenzene with dinitrogen pentoxide in dichloromethane at 0 °C are strongly catalysed by some zeolites notably H-Faujasite-720, catalysis by which is investigated in detail. Yields of the nitrated aromatics are near-quantitative. In the first two substrates nitration occurs more regioselectively at the 4-position compared to the uncatalysed reaction. The reaction of 1-chloro-2-nitrobenzene shows a kinetic form which is close to first-order with a rate-constant independent of the concentration of N2O5 and proportional to the mass of zeolite. Initial addition of the major product, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, causes rate-inhibition. Mechanisms are discussed.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) were isolated from rat liver, lung, heart, kidney, testis and brain by coupled affinity chromatography and subunits were resolved by reverse-phase h.p.l.c. The reverse-phase h.p.l.c. technique was improved from our previously published work [Johnson, Neal, Collins & Siegel (1990) Biochem. J. 270, 483-489] by changing from a C4 to a C18 wide-pore reverse-phase column; this resulted in baseline or near-baseline resolution of all GST subunits. There were significant tissue-dependent differences in the expression of GST subunits and the level of GST subunits present was quantitatively determined for each of the tissues. The extent of methylation of GSTs in vitro and distribution of GST methyltransferase (GST-MT) was determined in cytosolic fractions from each of these tissues. Purified GST isoenzymes were methylated with partially purified liver GST-MT. Methylation of Mu class subunits 3 and 4, the preferred substrates of methylation in liver, was substoichiometric in all tissues. The extent of methylation of subunit 3 ranged from 0.13% to 0.94% and subunit 4 from 0.03% to 0.60%. Methylation of Alpha class subunits was either not detectable or 5-10-fold less than that of Mu class subunits 3 and 4. Pi class subunit 7 was methylated to a greater extent than the Alpha class subunits but less than Mu class isoenzymes. A notable exception to this low level of methylation was GST 11-11, found mainly in testis and brain. Methylation of subunit 11 reached 21.9% (219 pmol of methyl group/nmol of subunit 11) when this isoenzyme was incubated with partially purified liver GST methyltransferase. Methylation of GST 11-11 was found to inhibit the conjugating activity of this isoenzyme towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene; the degree of inhibition of conjugating activity correlated with the extent of methylation of GST 11-11. GST-MT activity toward GST subunits 3, 4 and 11 was present in kidney and liver, detectable in lung and heart, but absent from brain and testis. Anion-exchange chromatography of GST-MTs from liver and kidney suggested the presence of four different forms of GST-MT (I-IV) and indicated that GST-MT isoenzymes III and IV were present at significantly lower concentrations in kidney than liver. The present paper shows that methylation is an enzyme-catalysed reaction that differs in substrate-specificity with respect to different GST isoenzymes, that expression of GST-MT is tissue-dependent and multiple forms of the enzyme are present in liver and kidney, and that methylation inhibits GST activity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Ethacrynic acid, a potent inhibitor of glutathione S-transferases (GST), has been shown to enhance the cytotoxicity of chlorambucil in drug resistant cell lines, but a definite mechanism has not been established. Both covalent binding to GST and reversible inhibition of GST have been reported. In the present study no irreversible inhibition was observed: for all rat GST tested, inactivation was complete within 15 sec at 0°, and dialysis of GST after incubation with ethacrynic acid gave complete recovery of enzyme activity for all isoenzymes tested. Moreover, the inhibition was competitive towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and non-competitive towards glutathione for rat isoenzyme 1-1. Strong inhibition of both human and rat GST of the α-, μ- and π-classes was obtained with ethacrynic acid, while conjugation of ethacrynic acid with glutathione did not abolish its inhibiting properties. For the α-, μ- and π-class i50 values (μM) were 4.6–6.0, 0.3–1.9 and 3.3–4.8, respectively for ethacrynic acid, and 0.8–2.8, < 0.1–1.2 and 11.0, respectively for its glutathione conjugate. Of all isoenzymes tested the human isoenzyme μ is most sensitive to the action of both ethacrynic acid and its glutathione conjugate.
The subcellular distribution of glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity extracted from shoots of 3-day-old etiolated seedlings of maize (Zea mays L., Northrup-King 9283 hybrid) and the induction of soluble and membrane-bound GST activity by the safener benoxacor, the herbicide metolachlor and their combination (CGA-180937) were investigated. GST activity extracted from maize shoots was detected in both cytosolic and microsomal fractions and utilized 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), metolachlor, and trans-cinnamic acid (CA) as substrates. Soluble GST activity extracted from maize shoots was greater than microsomal with CDNB or metolachlor as substrate. Membrane-bound GST activity was greater than soluble with cinnamic acid as substrate. Washing the microsomal preparations from maize shoots with Triton X-100 increased GST(CA) activity. Pretreatment with the safener benoxacor or a formulated combination of the herbicide metolachlor with benoxacor induced soluble GST(CDNB), GST(metolachlor) and GST(CA) activities in maize shoots. Benoxacor and CGA-180937 induced also membrane-bound GST(CDNB) and GST(CA) activities in maize shoots, but did not affect membrane-bound GST(metolachlor) activity. These results confirm that maize contains multiple GST isozymes that differ in their substrate specificity and inducibility by safeners or other chemicals.
GSH peroxidase, GSSG reductase, GSH S-transferase, and gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase activities were measured in the supernatant of 13 human early pregnancy placenta homogenates. From measurements of GSH peroxidase activity with both H2O2 and cumene hydroperoxide as second substrate it was deduced that immature placenta contains only the Se-dependent form. All the specimens investigated exhibited GSSG reductase and gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase activities. GSH S-transferase activity was noted only using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as electrophilic substrate, while no detectable activity was found with 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy) propane, and p-nitrobenzylchloride. It is concluded that human placenta is equipped, from early pregnancy, with the enzymatic systems which are involved in GSH-mediated cellular detoxication and in preserving the integrity of the sulfhydryl status of the cells.
The attack of GSH on 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) is the basis for the most widely used spectrophotometric assay for measurement of GST activity (Habig et al 1974) . The GSTπ•GSTCD -structure (PDB entry 1AQX). In panels d and e, the protein is shown as a molecular surface while the ligand as a stick model in atomic color scheme (carbon in gray, nitrogen in blue, oxygen in red, and sulfur in orange).
OBJECTIVES ::: To investigate immunological changes in lymph nodes based on expression of cell-specific receptors and cytokine expression profile and accompanying inflammatory reactions in lungs of mice treated with chemicals of known potentials to induce respiratory sensitization and those in which activity in this regard is unclear. ::: ::: ::: MATERIALS AND METHODS ::: On day 1 and 7, Balb/c mice received toluene-2,4-diisocyanate (TDI), trimellitic anhydride (TMA), 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB), glutaraldehyde (GA), formaldehyde (FA), benzalkonium chloride (ChB) or vehicle. On day 14, they received a single intranasal instillation with the same chemical or vehicle. On day 15, auricular lymph nodes (LN) were excised and used for analyzes of T-, B-cells, expression of CD44 and for the estimation of IL-4 and IFN-gamma production after in vitro stimulation with concanavalin A (ConA) and also for IL-4 and IFN-gamma mRNA expression analyses using Real-Time PCR. Inflammatory changes in lungs were observed by estimation of TNF-alpha and MIP-2 concentrations and cell numbers and their type in BAL. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: There were no significant changes in cell subpopulations of T helper cells in LN. The percent of B cells was significantly increased after treatment with DNCB, TDI, and GA. Increased expression of CD44 on T cells was also observed. Both IL-4 and IFN-gamma were found increased in TDI- and FA-treated mice, while only IL-4 was increased in TMA-treated mice. Real-Time PCR analyses, however, showed increased IL-4 mRNA expression for TDI- and TMA-, and IFN-gamma mRNA expression for DNCB-treated mice. We haven't observed significant changes in inflammatory reactions in the lungs of exposed animals. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: Studying immunological changes with first determining the activation status of T cells followed by analyzes of expression of mRNA for Th1 and Th2 cytokines in murine model could be a useful method for assessment of the potentials of chemicals to induce respiratory sensitization but is not sufficient. Addition of ventilatory measurements, but not necessarily inflammatory reactions, could complete the model.
Abstract There has been some concern that certain non-sensitizing irritants may yield false positive results in the murine local lymph node assay (LLNA). This study compared gene expression profiles in lymph nodes draining skin following exposure to sensitizers and irritants, to identify gene transcripts that could distinguish sensitizers from irritants. After treating CBA/N mouse ears for 3 days with the sensitizers 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 2-phenyl-4-ethoxymethylene-5-oxazolone, or toluene-2,4-diisocyanate or the non-sensitizing irritants croton oil or nonanoic acid, auricular lymph nodes and ear tissues were excised. Sensitizer-induced changes in parameters such as ear thickness, lymph node weight, and cell count also occurred in irritant-treated mouse tissues. However, gene transcripts such as Ifi27, Il12rb1, Ifng, and Zbp1, which are related to T-cell activation, were shown by gene expression microarrays and real-time RT-PCR analyses to be up-regulated in auricular lymph nodes by sensitizers exclusively. These findings suggest that gene expression analysis may enable distinction between sensitizing chemicals and non-sensitizing irritants.
The kinetic mechanism of glutathione S-transferase (GST) from Octopus vulgaris hepatopancreas was investigated by steady-state analysis. Initial-velocity studies showed an intersecting pattern, which suggests a sequential kinetic mechanism for the enzyme. Product-inhibition patterns by chloride and the conjugate product were all non-competitive with respect to glutathione or 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), which indicates that the octopus digestive gland GST conforms to a steady-state sequential random Bi Bi kinetic mechanism. Dead-end inhibition patterns indicate that ethacrynic acid ([2,3-dichloro-4-(2-methyl-enebutyryl) phenoxy]acetic acid) binds at the hydrophobic H-site, norophthalmic acid (gamma-glutamylalanylglycine) binds at the glutathione G-site, and glutathione-ethacrynate conjugate occupied both H- and G-sites of the enzyme. The chemical mechanism of the enzyme was examined by pH and kinetic solvent-isotope effects. At pH (and p2H) = 8.011, in which kcat. was independent of pH or p2H, the solvent isotope effects on V and V/KmGSH were near unity, in the range 1.069-1.175. An inverse isotope effect was observed for V/KmCDNB (0.597), presumably resulting from the hydrogen-bonding of enzyme-bound glutathione, which has pKa of 6.83 +/- 0.04, a value lower by 2.34 pH units than the pKa of glutathione in aqueous solution. This lowering of the pKa value for the sulphydryl group of the bound glutathione was presumably due to interaction with the active site Tyr7, which had a pKa value of 8.46 +/- 0.09 that was raised to 9.63 +/- 0.08 in the presence of glutathione thiolate. Subsequent chemical reaction involves attacking of thiolate anion at the electrophilic substrate with the formation of a negatively charged Meisenheimer complex, which is the rate-limiting step of the reaction.
The varying status of glutathione transferases (GSTs) in water snail, Bulinus globosus, an intermediate host of disease-causing Schistosoma haematobium (Bilharz 1852) has been investigated. The expression of GST isoenzymes in the water snail appears seasonal with about three isoenzymes appearing during raining season, when the organism is active, which may reduce to a single peak of one isoenzyme during aestivation, when the organism is inactive. GST isoenzyme is present in high concentration in all the tissues investigated namely: haemolymph, foot muscle and hepatopancreas with specific activities of 0.006 ± 0.002, 0.45 ± 0.021 and 1.33 ± 0.103 units/mg protein respectively for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrate. With this substrate, the specific activity of GST from the hepatopancreas appears higher than the specific activities that have been previously reported for GSTs from molluscs. Partial purification of the isoenzymes using Tris acrylic acid-based resins enabled us to observe that GST appears to be the major protein in the hepatopancreas of this organism. We also found indications for the presence of an endogenous GST inhibitor in the cytosol, whose function is yet unknown. All the traditional GST inhibitors such as cibacron blue, hematin, bromosulfophthalein and S-hexylglutathione were able to inhibit the isoenzymes effectively, with cibacron blue being the most potent. The isoenzymes however have narrow substrate specificity. We conclude that different isoenzymes of GST are expressed in the same class of molluscs, even when they belong to the same genus or species, and that the expression may depend on whether the snails are on aestivation or not.
Clotrimazole, a specific inhibitor of the Ca(2+) activated potassium (Gardos) channel, and the antioxidant N-acetylcysteine were found to inhibit the in vitro formation of high-density sickle cells induced by treatment with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). The CDNB induced leakage of K(+) can be inhibited by treatment of SS erythrocytes with 20 mM N-acetylcysteine. We conclude that the effect of N-acetylcysteine in preventing K(+) efflux and formation of high-density sickle cells is related to its ability to protect the Gardos channel from oxidative damage caused by diminished levels of reduced glutathione. This effect is due to the ability of N-acetylcysteine to maintain an appropriate level of reduced glutathione and its direct antioxidant activity.
Abstract The possible utility of glutathione S-transferase isoenzymes in affinity purified extracts of digestive gland from Mytilus galloprovincialis as indicators of exposure to organic pollution has been assessed by fast protein liquid chromatography (FPLC) using a Mono-Q ion exchange column. Four main peaks of protein (isoenzymes 1–4) were detected in these chromatographic studies all of which displayed detectable catalytic activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and glutathione as substrates. The bulk of the activity with these substrates was associated with isoenzyme 1. The specific activity of cytosolic extracts from six sites in Venice Lagoon and the Adriatic Sea (UNESCO-MURST Venice Lagoon Ecosystem Project) decreased slightly with increasing tissue levels of chemical contaminants (hydrocarbons, PCBs and organochlorines). FPLC of affinity purified extracts from three of these sites was used to assess the possible variation in the levels of individual isoenzymes relative to pollution status. No difference was observed in the levels of these isoenzymes.
OBJECTIVE ::: The aims of this work are to enhance the in vitro skin permeation of Houttuynia cordata (water-soluble extract of H. cordata; HCWSE) and to boost the efficacy of HCWSE against atopic dermatitis (AD) - like skin lesion in hairless mice using lipid nano-carriers (liposome and cubosome). ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: HCWSE was obtained by a hot water extraction. Monoolein cubosomal suspension containing HCWSE and egg phosphatidylcholine liposomal suspension containing the same was prepared by a sonication and a film hydration method, respectively. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: The lipid nano-carriers, especially cubosome, enhanced the in vitro skin permeation of HCWSE. The inhibitory effects of HCWSE-containing lipid carrier suspensions on the development of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB)-induced AD-like skin lesion in hairless mice were investigated by observing appearance of skin surface, serum immunoglobulin E (IgE) level and cytokine expression. HCWSE-containing preparations suppressed IgE production and interleukin 4 expression, whereas they promoted interferon gamma expression. The order of lymphocyte (B-cell, Th1 cell and Th2 cell) modulating effect was HCWSE-containing cubosomal suspension > HCWSE-containing liposomal suspension > HCWSE solution in phosphate buffered saline, indicating that the cubosomal suspension, among the preparations, was the most efficacious in inhibiting the development of DNCB-induced AD-like skin lesion. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: It is believed that the cubosomal suspension containing HCWSE would be an efficacious preparation for the treatment of AD.
7-Chloro-4-nitrobenzo-2-oxa-1,3-diazole reacts with two thiol groups of the dimeric horse erythrocyte glutathione transferase at pH 5.0, with strong inactivation reversible on dithiothreitol treatment. The inactivation kinetic follows a biphasic pattern, similar to that caused by other thiol reagents as recently reported. Both S-methylglutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene protect the enzyme from inactivation. Analysis of the reactive SH group-containing peptide gives the sequence Ala-Ser-Cys-Leu-Tyr, identical with that of the peptide that contains the reactive cysteine 47 of the human placental transferase. In the presence of glutathione, the enzyme is not inactivated by this reagent, but it catalyzes its conjugation to glutathione. At higher pH values, 7-chloro-4-nitrobenzo-2-oxa-1,3-diazole reacts with 2 tyrosines/dimer and lysines, as well as with cysteines. Reaction with lysine seems essentially without effect on activity; whether the reactive tyrosines are important for activity could not be determined using this reagent only. However, 2 tyrosines among the 4 that are nitrated by tetranitro-methane are important for activity.
Abstract A new method is described by which multiple forms of glutathione S -transferase in rat and human liver can be separated by electrophoresis in starch gel and localized on the gel surface by a specific stain, utilizing 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and reduced glutathione as substrates. The technique permits the comparison of samples from many individuals, and allows determination of the genetic relationships between the different glutathione S -transferase isozymes.
Assay conditions of human liver glutathione S-transferase and its activity in human serum from liver disease patients were investigated. One mmol/l reduced glutathione, and 1 mmol/l-1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, pH 6.5, were used for the measurement, because of the very low non-enzymatic conjugation. Glutathione S-transferase activity was inhibited by bilirubin, but this inhibition was counteracted by the presence of a low concentration of albumin. The normal human serum glutathione S-transferase activity was 5.2 +/- 2.4 I.U./l (mean +/- S.D.), and was not influenced by any differences of age, sex or leukocyte count. A significant increase in serum enzyme activity was noted in cases of acute hepatitis with GPT exceeding 200 I.U./l, primary hepatoma and metastatic liver cancer. Some of the cases with fulminant hepatitis showed extremely high values. The degree of correlation between serum glutathione S-transferase and GOT or GPT was high in acute hepatitis, with GOT or GPT exceeding 200 I.U./l, in fulminant hepatitis, primary hepatoma and gall stones, while in chronic hepatitis and liver cirrhosis it was low. In cases of acute hepatitis and fulminant hepatitis, the disappearance of serum glutathione S-transferase from the blood was much faster than that of GOT and GPT. Serum glutathione S-transferase measurements will provide new and unique information for the diagnosis of acute liver diseases.
We report two methods for preparing N -arylammonio, N -pyridyl and N -arylamino dodecaborates: heating of the tetrabutylammonium salt of dodecahydro- closo -dodecaborate(2-) with aryl and pyridyl amines, or nucleophilic attack of [ closo- B 12 H 11 NH 2 ] 2− on a strongly deactivated aromatic system. With aryl amines we obtained [1- closo -B 12 H 11 N(R 1 ) 2 C 6 H 5 ] − (R 1 = H, CH 3 ). With 4-(dimethylamino)pyridine, [1- closo -(B 12 H 11 NC 5 H 4 )-4-N(CH 3 ) 2 ] − , with a bond between the boron and the pyridinium nitrogen, was obtained. A presumable mechanism for this kind of reactions is reported. By nucleophilic substitution, two products, [1- closo -(B 12 H 11 NHC 6 H 3 )-3,4-(CN) 2 ] 2− and [1- closo -(B 12 H 11 NHC 6 H 2 )-2-(NO 2 )-4,5-(CN) 2 ] 2− , were formed with 4-nitrophthalonitrile and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene gave [1- closo -(B 12 H 11 NHC 6 H 3 )-2,4-(NO 2 ) 2 ] 2− . For [1- closo- B 12 H 11 N(CH 3 ) 2 C 6 H 5 ] − and [1- closo -(B 12 H 11 NHC 6 H 3 )-2,4-(NO 2 ) 2 ] 2− single crystal X-ray structures were obtained.
The coupling of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene with 3,5-dichloroaniline gives 3,5-dichloro-2′,4′-dinitrodiphenylamine. The nitration of this formerly unknown compound with anhydrous nitric acid gives 3,5-dichloro-2,4-2′,4′-tetranitrodiphenylamine, in which the chlorine atoms are mobile and can be replaced by amino groups. ::: ::: ::: ::: The partial reduction of 2,4-dinitrodiphenylamine and its derivatives can be accomplished better with Na2S2 than with Na2S.
Abbreviations BHT: 3,5-Di-tert-4-butylhydroxytoluene; CDNB: 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene; DCPIP: 2,6-dichlorophenol-indophenol; DPPH: 1,1-Diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl; DTD: DT-diaphorase; DTNB: 5,50-dithiobis-2-nitrobenzoic acid; EDTA: Ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid; GPx: Glutathione; GR: Glutathione reductase; GSH: Reduced glutathione; GSSG: Oxidized GSH; GST: Glutathione S-transferase; MDA: Malondialdehyde; NADH: nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide; NADPH: reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate; ORP: Oxidation reduction potential; SOD: Super oxide dismutase; TBA: Thiobarbituric reduced; TBARS: Thiobarbituric acid reactive substances
Objectives: To investigate immunological changes in lymph nodes based on expression of cell-specific receptors and cytokine expression profile and accompanying inflammatory reactions in lungs of mice treated with chemicals of known potentials to induce respiratory sensitization and those in which activity in this regard is unclear. Materials and Methods: On day 1 and 7, Balb/c mice received toluene-2,4-diisocyanate (TDI), trimellitic anhydride (TMA), 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB), glutaraldehyde (GA), formaldehyde (FA), benzalkonium chloride (ChB) or vehicle. On day 14, they received a single intranasal instillation with the same chemical or vehicle. On day 15, auricular lymph nodes (LN) were excised and used for analyzes of T-, B-cells, expression of CD44 and for the estimation of IL-4 and IFN-γ production after in vitro stimulation with concanavalin A (ConA) and also for IL-4 and IFN-γ mRNA expression analyses using Real-Time PCR. Inflammatory changes in lungs were observed by estimation of TNF-α and MIP-2 concentrations and cell numbers and their type in BAL. Results: There were no significant changes in cell subpopulations of T helper cells in LN. The percent of B cells was significantly increased after treatment with DNCB, TDI, and GA. Increased expression of CD44 on T cells was also observed. Both IL-4 and IFN-γ were found increased in TDI-and FA-treated mice, while only IL-4 was increased in TMA-treated mice. Real-Time PCR analyses, however, showed increased IL-4 mRNA expression for TDI-and TMA-, and IFN-γ mRNA expression for DNCB-treated mice. We haven't observed significant changes in inflammatory reactions in the lungs of exposed animals. Conclusions: Studying immunological changes with first determining the activation status of T cells followed by analyzes of expression of mRNA for Th1 and Th2 cytokines in murine model could be a useful method for assessment of the potentials of chemicals to induce respiratory sensitization but is not sufficient. Addition of ventilatory measurements, but not necessarily inflammatory reactions, could complete the model.
Abstract. Our previous studies suggested that paeonol, the active constituent of the traditional Chinese medicine Cortex Moutan, may be an effective treatment for inflammatory disorders. In the present study, the therapeutic potential of paeonol on atopic dermatitis (AD) was investigated using animal and cell experiments. AD-like lesions were induced by repeated application of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB) to the shaved dorsal skin of BALB/c mice, and P815 cells were used for in vitro assays. The skin lesions, serum and spleens of the mice were analyzed using lesion severity scoring, histological analysis, flow cytometry, reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction, western blotting and ELISA, in order to investigate the anti-AD effects of paeonol. In addition, western blotting and ELISA were conducted for in vitro analysis of P815 cells. The results demonstrated that oral administration of paeonol inhibited the development of DNCB-induced AD-like lesions in the BALB/c mice by reducing severity of the lesions, epidermal thickness and mast cell infiltration; this was accompanied by reduced levels of immunoglobulin E and inflammatory cytokines [interleukin (IL)-4, histamine, IL-13, IL-31 and thymic stromal lymphopoietin], along with regulation of the T helper (Th) cell subset (Th1/Th2) ratio. Application of paeonol also reduced the protein expression levels of phosphorylated (p)-p38 and p-extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) in skin lesions. In vitro, paeonol reduced the expression levels of tumor necrosis factor-α and histamine in P815 cells, and inhibited p38/ERK/mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling. The present findings indicated that paeonol may relieve dermatitis by acting on cluster of differentiation 4 + T and mast cells; therefore, paeonol may represent a potential therapeutic strategy for the treatment of allergic inflammatory conditions via immunoregulation.
Mast cells are widely recognized as another crucial factor responsible for allergic inflammatory reactions (10) . A previous study demonstrated that high IgE levels activate mast cells. The IgE receptor FcεRI sits on the cell surface and mast cells, as effector cells, release histamines and other biologically active products that trigger allergic inflammatory symptoms (11) . Therefore, methods that reduce the number of mast cells and inhibit their activation may ameliorate the symptoms of AD. Paeonol (2'-hydroxy-4'-methoxyacetophenone) is a constituent of the traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) Cortex Moutan, which has been used to treat inflammatory conditions and immune disorders due to its numerous pharmacological activities, including anti-oxidant, anti-inflammatory, anticancer, apoptosis-inducing and anti-diabetic effects (12, 13) . Several animal models and cell experiments have reported that paeonol may suppress inflammatory responses (14, 15) . The results of our previous study demonstrated that paeonol alleviates psoriasis-like lesions in a mouse model and relieves inflammatory reactions (16) . It was therefore hypothesized that paeonol may ameliorate allergic diseases induced by activated Th2 and mast cells. Therefore, the present study focused on the effects of paeonol on 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB)-induced AD-like lesions and mast cells (P815 cells), in order to determine the potential efficiency and underlying mechanism of paeonol for the treatment of AD.
BACKGROUND ::: Vascular dysfunction, including reduced endothelium-dependent dilation, is a major characteristic of hypertension. We previously investigated that thioredoxin reductase (TrxR) inhibition impairs vasodilation via soluble guanylyl cyclase S-nitrosylation, but S-nitrosylation and TrxR function are not known in hypertension. We hypothesized that S-nitrosylation is associated with reduced vasodilation in hypertensive mice. ::: ::: ::: METHOD ::: Aortic rings from normotensive (sham) and angiotensin II (AngII)-induced hypertensive C57BL/6 mice were treated with a TrxR inhibitor, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB) for 30 min, and relaxation to acetylcholine (ACh) was measured in the rings following contraction with phenylephrine. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: DCNB reduced relaxation to ACh compared with vehicle in sham aorta but not in AngII (sham-vehicle E(max) = 77 ± 2, sham-DNCB E(max) = 59 ± 4, P < 0.05). DNCB shifted the concentration-response relaxation to sodium nitroprusside (SNP) to the right in both sham and AngII aortic rings (sham-vehicle pD(2) = 8.8±0.1, sham-DNCB pD(2) = 8.4±0.1, *P < 0.05; AngII-vehicle pD(2) = 8.5±0.1, AngII-DNCB pD(2) = 8.3 ± 0.1, P < 0.05). As downstream signaling of nitric oxide, cyclic GMP level was reduced by DNCB during activation with SNP. The effect of DNCB to increase S-nitrosylation was confirmed by the biotin-switch method and western blot analysis, and total protein S-nitrosylation was increased in AngII aorta (1.5-fold) compared with sham. TrxR activity was inhibited in AngII aorta compared with sham. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: We conclude that increased S-nitrosylation contributes to impaired relaxation in aorta from AngII-induced hypertensive mice. AngII treatment resulted in inactivation of TrxR and increased S-nitrosylation, indicating that TrxR and S-nitrosylation may provide a critical mechanism in hypertension associated with abnormal vascular reactivity.
Although the three-dimensional structure of human glutathione transferase (GST) P1-1 crystallized with a GSH analogue has been reported, its structure in the non-complexed form has not been determined. Four monoclonal antibodies to GST P1-1 were produced to facilitate structural analysis. Of these, one, clone d-1 of IgG2a isotype, dose-dependently inhibited the activity of GST P1-1 but did not affect the activities of either GST A1-1 or M1-1. On immunoblotting, the antibody reacted strongly with GST P1-1 and weakly with rat GST-P and mouse GST-II, indicating cross-reactivity with Pi-class forms but preferential reactivity with GST P1-1. When GST P1-1 and the antibody were incubated in the presence of 60 microM GSH, no inhibition of activity was found, whereas 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene had no effect at concentrations up to 10 microM. The binding of GST P1-1 to antibody adsorbed to Protein A-Sepharose was also prevented by both 0.1 mM GSH and N-ethylmaleimide treatment. Trypsin digests of GST P1-1 were resolved by HPLC and a peptide that reacted with the antibody was detected by absorption experiments. N-Terminal amino acid sequencing revealed the peptide to be in the C-terminal portion of the enzyme, stretching from amino acid residues 198 to 208. A synthetic peptide of this sequence also absorbed the antibody. These results suggest that both GSH bound to the active site and N-ethylmaleimide bound to the cysteine residue repress antibody binding to the C-terminal region. Thus this antibody may be useful for examining the steric configuration of the C-terminal and other regions of GST P1-1 in the absence of GSH.
1. The influence of the endogenous steroid epoxides 16α, 17α-epoxyestra-1,3,5(10)-trien-3-ol (estroxide) and 16α, 17α-expoxiandrost-4-en-3-one (androstene oxide) and their metabolic precursors estra-1,3,5(10), 16-tetraen-3-ol (estratetraenol) and androsta-4. 16-dien-3-one (androstadienone) on the specific activities of hepatic microsomal and soluble epoxide hydrolase, glutathione S-transferase, dihydrodiol dehydrogenase, and 7-ethoxycoumarin deethylase was investigated in the male Sprague-Dawley rat.2. Both estroxide and estratetraenol induced microsomal epoxide hydrolase activity towards styrene oxide and estroxide itself 2-2·5-fold and glutathione conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) 1·6-fold after intraperitoneal administration of a high dose of compound (300 mg per kg of body weight).3. In addition, estroxide decreased 7-ethoxycoumarin deethylation down to 20% of the activity observed in the untreated rat, whereas estratetraenol enhanced the activity of soluble epoxide hydrolase towards t...
His15 is a conserved amino acid residue in all known class Mu glutathione transferases. This His residue in human glutathione transferase M1-1 has been mutated into 17 different amino acid residues by means of site-directed random mutagenesis to determine if any substitutions are compatible with catalytic activity. The majority of the mutant proteins appeared unstable and could not be isolated in reasonable quantities by heterologous expression in Escherichia coli. Five mutant enzymes, H15C, H15K, H15N, H15Q and H15S were purified and more extensively characterized. The mutant proteins shared the same size as that of the wild-type enzyme but could be separated from the parental enzyme by reverse phase HPLC. For all the mutant forms except H15N, the sp. act. with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was less than 3% of the wild-type value--the H15N mutant enzyme displayed 29% of the wild-type activity. None of the catalytically active mutant enzymes showed any major alteration of the binding affinity for the substrate analog S-hexylglutathione, suggesting that His15 is not part of the active site of the enzyme. The high activity of the mutant H15N, also reflected in the kcat/Km, V and S0.5 values, rules out the possibility that His15 in the native enzyme contributes to catalysis by serving as a base. The role of His15, largely replaceable by Asn in the same position, appears to be structural, probably involving hydrogen bonds that maintain the protein in a stable and catalytically active conformation. A critical structural role of His15 in a buried position may explain the evolutionary conservation of this residue in the class Mu glutathione transferases.
We have purified two isoenzymes of glutathione S-transferase from bovine retina to apparent homogeneity through a combination of gel-filtration chromatography, affinity chromatography and isoelectric focusing. The more anionic (pI = 6.34) and less anionic (pI = 6.87) isoenzymes were comparable with respect to kinetic and structural parameters. The Km for both substrates, reduced glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, bilirubin inhibition of glutathione conjugation to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene inactivation of enzyme activity and molecular weight were similar. However, pH optimum and energy of activation were found to differ considerably. Retina was found to have no selenium-dependent glutathione peroxidase activity. The total glutathione peroxidase activity fractionated with the transferases in the gel-filtration range of mol.wt. 49000 and expressed activity with only organic hydroperoxides as substrate. Only the more anionic isoenzyme expressed both transferase and peroxidase activity.
ABC transporters including MRP2, MDR1 and BCRP play a major role in tissue defense. Epidemiological and experimental studies suggest a cytoprotective role of estrogens in intestine, though the mechanism remains poorly understood. We evaluated whether pharmacologic concentrations of ethynylestradiol (EE, 0.05pM to 5nM), or concentrations of genistein (GNT) associated with soy ingestion (0.1-10μM), affect the expression and activity of multidrug resistance proteins MRP2, MDR1 and BCRP using Caco-2 cells, an in vitro model of intestinal epithelium. We found that incubation with 5pM EE and 1μM GNT for 48h increased expression and activity of both MRP2 and MDR1. Estrogens did not affect expression of BCRP protein at any concentration studied. Irrespective of the estrogen tested, up-regulation of MDR1 and MRP2 protein was accompanied by increased levels of MDR1 mRNA, whereas MRP2 mRNA remained unchanged. Cytotoxicity assays demonstrated association of MRP2 and MDR1 up-regulation with increased resistance to cell death induced by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, an MRP2 substrate precursor, and by paraquat, an MDR1 substrate. Experiments using an estrogen receptor (ER) antagonist implicate ER participation in MRP2 and MDR1 regulation. GNT but not EE increased the expression of ERβ, the most abundant form in human intestine and in Caco-2 cells, which could lead in turn to increased sensitivity to estrogens. We conclude that specific concentrations of estrogens can confer resistance against cytotoxicity in Caco-2 cells, due in part to positive modulation of ABC transporters involved in extrusion of their toxic substrates. Although extrapolation of these results to the in vivo situation must be cautiously done, the data could explain tentatively the cytoprotective role of estrogens against chemical injury in intestine.
In the present study we have used both enzyme assay with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate and immunochemical quantitation to examine the distribution of microsomal glutathione transferase in different organelles, in different organs, and in different organisms. This enzyme was found to constitute 3% and 5%, respectively, of the total protein recovered in the microsomal and outer mitochondrial membrane fractions from rat liver. Microsomal glutathione transferase present in other subcellular fractions can be accounted for by contamination by the endoplasmic reticulum. In contrast to the situation with rat liver microsomes the glutathione transferase activities of microsomes from extrahepatic tissues of this same animal could not be activated by treatment with N-ethylmaleimide. Nonetheless, significant albeit low levels of a protein with the same molecular weight and immunochemical properties as the rat liver enzyme could be detected in microsomes from several extrahepatic tissues, notably the intestine, the adrenal, and the testis. Of those mammals for which fresh liver could be obtained, all demonstrated N-ethylmaleimide-activatable glutathione transferase activity in their liver microsomes. On the other hand, representatives for fish, birds, and amphibia did not demonstrate such activatable transferase activity in their liver microsomes. Toad was the only species that had a notable (twofold) sex difference in their level of hepatic microsomal glutathione transferase activity.
Serine-threonine kinase receptor-associated protein (STRAP) is a TGF-β receptor-interacting protein that participates in the regulation of cell proliferation and cell death in response to various stresses. Here, we demonstrate that STRAP phosphorylation plays an important role in determining the pro- or anti-apoptotic function of STRAP. Murine protein serine/threonine kinase 38 (MPK38) phosphorylates STRAP at Ser(188) via direct interaction. Complex formation between STRAP and MPK38 is mediated by Cys(152) and Cys(270) of STRAP and Cys(339) and Cys(377) of MPK38, suggesting the redox dependency of this interaction. MPK38-mediated STRAP Ser(188) phosphorylation contributes to the pro-apoptotic function of STRAP by modulating key steps in STRAP-dependent ASK1, TGF-β, p53, and PI3K/PDK1 signaling pathways. Moreover, knockdown of endogenous MPK38 using an inducible MPK38 shRNA system and in vivo activation of MPK38 by treatment of HEK293 and STRAP-null MEF cells with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB), a specific inhibitor of Trx reductase, provide evidence that STRAP Ser(188) phosphorylation plays a key role in STRAP-dependent cell death. Adenoviral delivery of MPK38 in mice also demonstrates that STRAP Ser(188) phosphorylation in the liver is tightly associated with cell death and proliferation through ASK1, TGF-β, p53, and PI3K/PDK1 pathways, resulting in apoptotic cell death.
The identification of specific substrates of glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) is important for understanding drug metabolism. A method termed bioorthogonal identification of GST substrates (BIGS) was developed, in which a reduced glutathione (GSH) analogue was developed for recognition by a rationally engineered GST to label the substrates of the corresponding native GST. A K44G-W40A-R41A mutant (GST-KWR) of the mu-class glutathione S-transferases GSTM1 was shown to be active with a clickable GSH analogue (GSH-R1) as the cosubstrate. The GSH-R1 conjugation products can react with an azido-based biotin probe for ready enrichment and MS identification. Proof-of-principle studies were carried to detect the products of GSH-R1 conjugation to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and dopamine quinone. The BIGS technology was then used to identify GSTM1 substrates in the Chinese herbal medicine Ganmaocongji.
The high selectivity of protein farnesyltransferase was used to regioselectively append farnesyl analogues bearing bioorthogonal alkyne and azide functional groups to recombinant Schistosoma japonicum glutathione S-transferase (GSTase) and the active modified protein was covalently attached to glass surfaces. The cysteine residue in a C-terminal CVIA sequence appended to N-terminally His(6)-tagged glutathione S-transferase (His(6)-GSTase-CVIA) was post-translationally modified by incubation of purified protein or cell-free homogenates from E. coli M15/pQE-His(6)-GSTase-CVIA with yeast protein farnesyltransferase (PFTase) and analogues of farnesyl diphosphate (FPP) containing ω-azide and alkyne moieties. The modified proteins were added to wells on silicone-matted glass slides whose surfaces were modified with PEG units containing complementary ω-alkyne and azide moieties and covalently attached to the surface by a Cu(I)-catalyzed Huisgen [3 + 2] cycloaddition. The wells were washed and assayed for GSTase activity by monitoring the increase in A(340) upon addition of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and reduced glutathione (GT). GSTase activity was substantially higher in the wells spotted with alkyne (His(6)-GSTase-CVIA-PE) or azide (His(6)-GSTase-CVIA-AZ) modified glutathione-S-transferase than in control wells spotted with farnesyl-modified enzyme (His(6)-GSTase-CVIA-F).
Although certain PAH are known to be phototoxic, the mechanism for this process has not been previously demonstrated. In this paper, the authors present evidence for oxidative stress as a mechanism for such phototoxicity. The effects of three PAH (anthracene, pyrene, and fluoranthene) on cultured zebrafish (Brachydanio rerio) embryo cells were examined. Oxyradical promoters (diethyldithiocarbamic acid (DDC), 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), maleic acid diethyl ester (MADE) and DL-buthionine-[S,R]-sulfoximine (BSO)) were added at sublethal levels as pretreatments or cotreatments with the three PAH phototoxicants. Oxyradical inhibitors (1,10-phenanthroline and Quin 2 AM) were added at sublethal levels as cotreatments with the phototoxicants. The PAH were found to be significantly more toxic in the presence of UV light than plain white fluorescent light. All three of these PAH were found to be significantly more toxic if combined with any of the oxyradical promoters, but only in the presence of UV. Further, these phototoxicants were found to be significantly less toxic in combination with the oxyradical inhibitors, even in the presence of UV. From these results the authors conclude that oxidative stress is an important mechanism of phototoxicity.
Subcellular levels of different isoenzymes of glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) and their catalytic activities in rat liver, lung and brain tissues were compared following treatment with phenobarbital (PB), -naphthoflavone (BNF) and dexamethasone (DEX). The constitutive expression of á and mu classes of GSTs, but not the GST , was maximum in the liver cytosol as compared to other tissues. Cytosolic GST activity using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as a substrate was 2-4 fold higher than that in the microsomal and mitochondrial fractions. Glutathione peroxidase activity with cumene hydroperoxide as a substrate was also highest in the rat liver cytosol. PB and BNF treatments markedly induced the amount of GST proteins in all the tissues studied with the maximum induction in the cytosol after 4 days of PB and 10 days of BNF treatments, respectively. The longer duration of treatments had a suppressive effect on the GST activity, particularly in the mitochondrial and microsomal fractions. DEX treatment, on the other hand, only marginally induced the cytosolic GST, while the mitochondrial GST and the membrane bound microsomal GST activities were mostly decreased. Northern blot analysis also showed an increase in the GST-á mRNA level indicating a possible upregulation of the GST gene expression by the xenobiotic agent. Differences between the subcellular GSTs were studied by the in vitro addition of N-ethylmaleimide (NEM), a selective activator of the microsomal GST. The cytosolic GST activity, both in livers of uninduced and PB-treated, was inhibited to about 50% of the control levels by NEM. The mitochondrial activity, on the other hand, was significantly activated by the addition of NEM, similar to that reported for the microsomal GST. These results suggest selectivity in the effects of different xenobiotics on the expression and catalytic activity of GST isoenzymes from different subcellular compartments of tissues. More importantly, these observations are also relevant in studies on xenobiotic induced organ-specific toxicity and carcinogenicity.
Nitric oxide (NO) is known to regulate redox-sensitive signalling pathways in physiology and pathophysiology. Depending on its concentration, the NO-releasing compound S-nitrosoglutathione (GSNO) causes negative and positive regulation of thymocyte apoptosis. At levels below 0.6 mM, GSNO produces deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) laddering, which is inhibited by activation of protein kinase C (PKC), cycloheximide treatment, and calcium chelation. Higher concentrations of the NO donor (1-2 mM) suppress thymocyte apoptosis initiated by the classical agonist dexamethasone. Inhibition of apoptosis by NO is analogous to the action of the thiol-blocking compound N-ethylmaleimide (NEM) and the glutathione-S-transferase substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). Inhibition of apoptosis results from thiol modification of critical proteins in response to NO treatment. Depending on the concentration, GSNO can be involved either in toxic or in protective signalling in thymocyte biology.
Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells contain three omega-class glutathione transferases with glutaredoxin activity (Gto1, Gto2, and Gto3), in addition to two glutathione transferases (Gtt1 and Gtt2) not classifiable into standard classes. Gto1 is located at the peroxisomes, where it is targeted through a PTS1-type sequence, whereas Gto2 and Gto3 are in the cytosol. Among the GTO genes, GTO2 shows the strongest induction of expression by agents such as diamide, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, tert-butyl hydroperoxide or cadmium, in a manner that is dependent on transcriptional factors Yap1 and/or Msn2/4. Diamide and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (causing depletion of reduced glutathione) also induce expression of GTO1 over basal levels. Phenotypic analyses with single and multiple mutants in the S. cerevisiae glutathione transferase genes show that, in the absence of Gto1 and the two Gtt proteins, cells display increased sensitivity to cadmium. A gto1-null mutant also shows growth defects on oleic acid-based medium, which is indicative of abnormal peroxisomal functions, and altered expression of genes related to sulfur amino acid metabolism. As a consequence, growth of the gto1 mutant is delayed in growth medium without lysine, serine, or threonine, and the mutant cells have low levels of reduced glutathione. The role of Gto1 at the S. cerevisiae peroxisomes could be related to the redox regulation of the Str3 cystathionine β-lyase protein. This protein is also located at the peroxisomes in S. cerevisiae, where it is involved in transulfuration of cysteine into homocysteine, and requires a conserved cysteine residue for its biological activity.
Previously, we reported the importance of Tyr7 for the catalytic activity of human class Pi glutathione S-transferase [Kong et al. (1992) Biochem. Biophys. Res. Comm., 182, 1122]. As an extension of this study, we investigated the pH dependence of kinetic parameters of the wild-type enzyme and the Y7F mutant. The replacement of Tyr7 with phenylalanine was found to alter the pH dependence of Vmax and Vmax/KmCDNB of the enzyme for conjugation of GSH with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). The pKa of the thiol of GSH in the wild-type enzyme-GSH complex was estimated to be about 2.4 pK units lower than that in the Y7F-GSH complex. Tyr7 is thus considered to be important for catalytic activity in lowering the pKa of the thiol of GSH in the enzyme-GSH complex.
Glutathione S‒transferases (GSTs) play an important role in the detoxification of xenobiotics. They catalyze the nucleophilic addition of glutathione (GSH) to nonpolar compounds, rendering the products water-soluble. In the present study, we investigated the catalytic and structural properties of a mu-class GST from Fasciola gigantica (FgGST1). The purified recombinant FgGST1 formed a homodimer composed of 25 kDa subunit. Kinetic analysis revealed that FgGST1 displays broad substrate specificity and shows high GSH conjugation activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 4-nitroquinoline-1-oxide, and trans-4-phenyl-3-butene-2-one and peroxidase activity towards trans-2-nonenal and hexa-2,4-dienal. The FgGST1 was highly sensitive to inhibition by cibacron blue. The cofactor (GSH) and inhibitor (cibacron blue) were docked, and binding sites were identified. The molecular dynamics studies and principal component analysis indicated the stability of the systems and the collective motions, respectively. Unfolding studies suggest that FgGST1 is a highly cooperative molecule because, during GdnHCl-induced denaturation, a simultaneous unfolding of the protein without stabilization of any partially folded intermediate is observed. The protein is stabilized with a conformational free energy of about 10 ± 0.3 kcal mol−1. Additionally, the presence of conserved Pro-53 and structural motifs such as N-capping box and hydrophobic staple, further aided in the stability and proper folding of FgGST1.
As part of the studies of the biochemical basis for species differences in biotransformation of the carcinogen aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) and its modulation by phenolic antioxidants, we have investigated the role of mouse liver glutathione S-transferase (GST) isoenzymes in the conjugation of AFB1-8,9-epoxide. Isoenzymes of GST were purified to electrophoretic homogeneity from Swiss-Webster mouse liver cytosol by affinity chromatography and chromatofocusing. The isoenzyme fractions were characterized in terms of activity toward surrogate substrates and immunologic cross-reactivity with antisera to rat GSTs. The major isoenzymes were identified as SW 4-4, SW 3-3, and SW 1-1. The specific activity of SW 4-4 toward AFB1-8,9-epoxide was at least 50- and 150-fold greater than that of SW 3-3 and SW 1-1, respectively. Relatively high activity toward another epoxide carcinogen, benzo[a]pyrene-7,8-dihydrodiol-9,10-epoxide, was observed with both SW 4-4 and SW 3-3. SW 1-1 had the highest activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) whereas SW 4-4 had relatively low CDNB activity. Following pretreatment with 0.75% butylated hydroxyanisole in the diet, the fraction of total GST contributed by SW 1-1 appeared to increase dramatically, whereas in control mice SW 3-3 constituted the predominant isoenzyme. The high GST activity of mouse liver cytosol toward AFB1-8,9-epoxide is apparently due to an isoenzyme that contributes little to the overall cytosolic CDNB activity.
The major glutathione transferases in the rat small-intestine cytosol were isolated and characterized. The enzymes active with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as second substrate were almost quantitatively recovered after affinity chromatography on immobilized S-hexylglutathione. The different basic forms of glutathione transferase, which account for 90% of the activity, were resolved by chromatofocusing. Fractions containing enzymes with lower isoelectric points were not further resolved. The isolated fractions were characterized by their elution position in chromatofocusing, apparent subunit Mr, reactions with specific antibodies, substrate specificities and inhibition characteristics. The major basic forms identified were glutathione transferases 1-1, 4-4 and 7-7. In addition, evidence for the presence of a variant form of subunit 1, as well as trace amounts of subunits 2 and 3, was obtained. A significant amount of transferase 8-8 in the fraction of acidic enzyme forms was demonstrated by immunoblot and Ouchterlony double-diffusion analysis. In the comparison of the occurrence of the different forms of glutathione transferase in liver, lung, kidney and small intestine, it was found that the small intestine is the richest source of glutathione transferase 7-7.
Three cDNA sequences of glutathione S-transferase (GST), adgst1-2, adgst1-3 and adgst1-4, which are alternatively spliced products of the adgst1AS1 gene, were obtained from fourth instar larvae of Anopheles dirus mosquito by reverse transcriptase PCR reactions. The nucleotide sequences of these three cDNAs share >67% identity and the translated amino acid sequences share 61-64% identity. A comparison of the An. dirus to the An. gambiae enzymes shows that adGST1-2 versus agGST1-4, adGST1-3 versus agGST1-5 and adGST1-4 versus agGST1-3 have 85, 92 and 85% amino acid sequence identity, respectively, which confirms that orthologous isoenzymes occur across anopheline species. These three proteins were expressed at high levels, approximately 15-20 mg from 200 ml of E. coli culture. The recombinant enzymes were purified by affinity chromatography on an S-hexylglutathione agarose column. The subunit sizes of adGST1-2, adGST1-3 and adGST1-4 are 24.3, 23.9 and 25.1 kDa. The recombinant enzymes have high activities with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), detectable activity with 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene but markedly low activity with ethacrynic acid and p-nitrophenethyl bromide. adGST1-3 was shown to be the most active enzyme from the kinetic studies. Permethrin inhibition of CDNB activity, at varying concentrations of CDNB, was significantly different, being uncompetitive for adGST1-2, noncompetitive for adGST1-3 and competitive for adGST1-4. In contrast, permethrin inhibition with varying glutathione concentrations was noncompetitive for all three GSTs. Despite the enzymes being splicing products of the same gene and sharing identical sequence in the N-terminal 45 amino acids, these GSTs show distinct substrate specificities, kinetic properties and inhibition properties modulated by the differences in the C-terminus.
Prostaglandin D synthetase activity in the cytosol (100,000 x g, 1-h supernatant) fraction of peritoneal mast cells of adult rats (105.0 nmol/min/mg protein) was the highest among such activities in various rat tissues and cells. As judged by the absolute requirement for glutathione for the reaction (Km = 300 microM), the Km value for prostaglandin H2 (200 microM), and insensitivity of the activity to 1 mM 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, the enzyme in mast cells was similar to rat spleen prostaglandin D synthetase and differed from rat brain prostaglandin D synthetase or glutathione S-transferase, all of which catalyze the isomerase reaction from prostaglandin H2 to prostaglandin D2. In immunotitration analyses, the activity in mast cells showed a titration curve exactly identical with that of the purified spleen-type enzyme and almost completely absorbed by an excess amount of antibody against this enzyme, but it remained unchanged after incubation with antibodies against the brain-type enzyme and glutathione S-transferase isozymes thus far purified. In Western blot after two-dimensional electrophoresis of crude extracts of mast cells, a single immunoreactive spot was observed with antibody against the spleen-type enzyme at the same position as that of the purified enzyme (Mr = 26,000, pI = 5.2). Furthermore, the immunoreactive protein obtained from mast cells showed the same peptide fingerprints as those of the purified spleen-type enzyme, after partial digestion with Staphylococcus aureus V8 protease or trypsin. In immunoperoxidase staining, the immunoreactivity of the spleen-type enzyme was found in the cytosol of tissue mast cells in various organs such as thymus, intestine, stomach, and skin of adult rats. These findings indicate that prostaglandin D2 is produced by the spleen-type synthetase in mast cells of various tissues.
A glutathione S-transferase from Escherichia coli has been purified approximately 800-fold with an 11% activity yield by passage through DEAE Sephacel and glutathione-agarose affinity columns. Its functional form is a homodimer of two 24,000 Da polypeptides that catalyzes the binding of glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene with Km values of 0.25 and 1.5 mM, respectively. Optima of pH and temperature were 7.5 and 35 degrees C. The activity was stimulated (30%) by ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid. The N-terminal amino acid sequence was: Met-Leu-Leu-Phe-Ile-Leu-Pro-Gly-Ala.
We have purified two isoenzymes of glutathione S-transferase from bovine retina to apparent homogeneity through a combination of gel-filtration chromatography, affinity chromatography and isoelectric focusing. The more anionic (pI = 6.34) and less anionic (pI = 6.87) isoenzymes were comparable with respect to kinetic and structural parameters. The Km for both substrates, reduced glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, bilirubin inhibition of glutathione conjugation to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene inactivation of enzyme activity and molecular weight were similar. However, pH optimum and energy of activation were found to differ considerably. Retina was found to have no selenium-dependent glutathione peroxidase activity. The total glutathione peroxidase activity fractionated with the transferases in the gel-filtration range of mol.wt. 49000 and expressed activity with only organic hydroperoxides as substrate. Only the more anionic isoenzyme expressed both transferase and peroxidase activity.
Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells contain three omega-class glutathione transferases with glutaredoxin activity (Gto1, Gto2, and Gto3), in addition to two glutathione transferases (Gtt1 and Gtt2) not classifiable into standard classes. Gto1 is located at the peroxisomes, where it is targeted through a PTS1-type sequence, whereas Gto2 and Gto3 are in the cytosol. Among the GTO genes, GTO2 shows the strongest induction of expression by agents such as diamide, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, tert-butyl hydroperoxide or cadmium, in a manner that is dependent on transcriptional factors Yap1 and/or Msn2/4. Diamide and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (causing depletion of reduced glutathione) also induce expression of GTO1 over basal levels. Phenotypic analyses with single and multiple mutants in the S. cerevisiae glutathione transferase genes show that, in the absence of Gto1 and the two Gtt proteins, cells display increased sensitivity to cadmium. A gto1-null mutant also shows growth defects on oleic acid-based medium, which is indicative of abnormal peroxisomal functions, and altered expression of genes related to sulfur amino acid metabolism. As a consequence, growth of the gto1 mutant is delayed in growth medium without lysine, serine, or threonine, and the mutant cells have low levels of reduced glutathione. The role of Gto1 at the S. cerevisiae peroxisomes could be related to the redox regulation of the Str3 cystathionine ␤-lyase protein. This protein is also located at the peroxisomes in S. cerevisiae, where it is involved in transulfuration of cysteine into homocysteine, and requires a conserved cysteine residue for its biological activity.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) play an important role in the detoxification of xenobiotics. They catalyze the nucleophilic addition of glutathione (GSH) to nonpolar compounds, rendering the products water-soluble. In the present study, we investigated the catalytic and structural properties of a muclass GST from Fasciola gigantica (FgGST1). The purified recombinant FgGST1 formed a homodimer composed of 25 kDa subunit. Kinetic analysis revealed that FgGST1 displays broad substrate specificity and shows high GSH conjugation activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 4-nitroquinoline-1-oxide, and trans-4-phenyl-3-butene-2-one and peroxidase activity towards trans-2-nonenal and hexa-2,4-dienal. The FgGST1 was highly sensitive to inhibition by cibacron blue. The cofactor (GSH) and inhibitor (cibacron blue) were docked, and binding sites were identified. The molecular dynamics studies and principal component analysis indicated the stability of the systems and the collective motions, respectively. Unfolding studies suggest that FgGST1 is a highly cooperative molecule because, during GdnHCl-induced denaturation, a simultaneous unfolding of the protein without stabilization of any partially folded intermediate is observed. The protein is stabilized with a conformational free energy of about 10 ± 0.3 kcal mol −1 . Additionally, the presence of conserved Pro-53 and structural motifs such as N-capping box and hydrophobic staple, further aided in the stability and proper folding of FgGST1.
A new method has been developed for the conjugation of rat lens glutathione by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). This reaction is catalysed by glutathione S-transferase present in the lens. One milliliter of 1 mM CDNB per two rat lenses conjugates more than 95% of the lens GSH in 30 min at 37d`. Lenses incubated with 1 mM CDNB for 30 min, followed by incubation in the culture medium without CDNB remained apparently clear for up to 24 hrs. The CDNB treated lenses were more susceptible to protein precipitation (cataract formation) when challenged with oxidants such as hydrogen peroxide and superoxide anions.
Elevated levels of glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) play a major role as a mechanism of resistance to insecticides and acaricides in resistant pest insects and mites, respectively. Such compounds are either detoxicated directly via phase I metabolism or detoxicated by phase II metabolism of metabolites as formed by microsomal monooxygenases. Here we used monochlorobimane (MCB) as an artificial substrate and glutathione to determine total GST activity in equivalents of single pest insects and spider mites in a sensitive 96-well plate-based assay system by measuring the enzymatic conversion of MCB to its fluorescent bimane–glutathione adduct. The differentiation by their GST activity between several strains of the two-spotted spider mite, Tetranychus urticae (Acari: Tetranychidae), with different degrees of resistance to numerous acaricides was more sensitive with MCB compared to the commonly used substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). Compared to an acaricide-susceptible reference strain, one field population of T. urticae showed a more than 10-fold higher GST activity measured with MCB, in contrast to a less than 2-fold higher activity when CDNB was used. Furthermore, we showed that GST activity can be sensitively assessed with MCB in homogenates of pest insects such as Heliothis virescens, Spodoptera frugiperda (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae), Plutella xylostella (Lepidoptera: Yponomeutidae), and Myzus persicae (Hemiptera: Aphididae).
High performance liquid chromatography(HPLC) is one of the analytical techniques used most frequently. Its chief limitation lies in the need to avoid the overlap of chromatographic peaks as much as possible. In this paper, the overlapped chromatograms and spectra system of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 3,5-dinitrobenzoic acid in the presence of 2,4-dinitrobenzoic acid were resolved by using the alternating trilinear decomposition(ATLD) combined with HPLC-DAD. Moreover, both were determined simultaneously, whose recoveries were(102.1±2.2)% and(97.6±3.6)%, respectively. The satisfactory results show that this experiment can be easily performed without paying out time-consuming and complicated procedures and quantifying accurately. It revealed the ATLD algorithm was one of the approaches to solve second-order calibration problem in HPLC-DAD.
Abstract Gluthathione S-transferase (GST) activity was measured in Daphnia magna and Ceriodaphnia reticulata using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and ethacrynic acid (EA) as conjugation substrates. Levels of GST activity were comparable between species with CDNB; however, D. magna had nearly twice the GST activity with EA as compared to C. reticulata. GST activity with CDNB was elevated from exposure of daphnids to either CDNB or sodium pentachlorophenate (PCP), but not from exposure to EA. GST activity with EA could not be modulated from exposure to CDNB or EA. GST activity towards CDNB and EA was biochemically separated into different protein fractions suggesting the existence of two distinct isozymes. Preexposure of daphnids to CDNB or PCP increased the organisms' tolerance to the toxic effects of PCP, but not CDNB.
1: The metabolism by HepG2 cell from two sources (M1, M2) of 12 substrates is reported: ethoxyresorufin, ethoxycoumarin, testosterone, tolbutamide, chlorzoxazone, dextromethorphan, phenacetin, midazolam, acetaminophen, hydroxycoumarin, p-nitrophenol and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), and a pharmaceutical compound, EMD68843. 2: Activities varied markedly. Some were present in M1 (CYP1A, CYP2C9, CYP2E1) but absent in M2. M1 had a more complete set of Phase I enzymes than M2. CYP1A2, CYP2C9, CYP2D6, CYP2E1 and CYP3A activities were present at levels similar to human hepatocytes. Phase II metabolism differed between M1 and M2. M1 conjugated hydroxycoumarin and p-nitrophenol to glucuronides only, whereas M2 produced sulfates. Glutathione conjugation of CDNB metabolism was 10-fold higher in M1 than in M2, but was still much lower than in human hepatocytes. CYP2E, CYP2C, CYP2B6 and CYP3A (but not CYP1A, glucuronyl S-transferase or S-transferase) were inducible in M1. Metabolites of EMD68843, produced by induced (but not uninduced) M1 were the same as those produced in human hepatocytes. 3: In conclusion, HepG2 cells have both Phase I and II enzymes, which activities and at what levels depend on the source and culture conditions. Therefore, HepG2 cells routinely used in in vitro assays should be characterized for their drug-metabolizing capabilities before any results can be fully interpreted.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are a family of enzymes that function in the detoxification of variety of electrophilic substrates. In the present work, we report a novel zeta-like GST (designated as KKSG9) from the biphenyl/polychlorobiphenyl degrading organism Acidovorax sp. KKS102. KKSG9 possessed low sequence similarity but similar biochemical properties to zeta class GSTs. Functional analysis showed that the enzyme exhibits wider substrate specificity compared to most zeta class GSTs by reacting with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), p-nitrobenzyl chloride (NBC), ethacrynic acid (EA), hydrogen peroxide, and cumene hydroperoxide. The enzyme also displayed dehalogenation function against dichloroacetate, permethrin, and dieldrin. The functional role of Tyr12 was also investigated by site-directed mutagenesis. The mutant (Y12C) displayed low catalytic activity and dehalogenation function against all the substrates when compared with the wild type. Kinetic analysis using NBC and GSH as substrates showed that the mutant (Y12C) displayed a higher affinity for NBC when compared with the wild type, however, no significant change in GSH affinity was observed. These findings suggest that the presence of tyrosine residue in the motif might represent an evolutionary trend toward improving the catalytic activity of the enzyme. The enzyme as well could be useful in the bioremediation of various types of organochlorine pollutants.
NF-Y is a heterotrimeric transcription factor that specifically recognizes a CCAAT box motif found in a variety of eukaryotic promoter and enhancer elements. The subunit association and DNA binding properties of the NF-Y complex were examined as a function of redox state using recombinant NF-YA, NF-YB, and NF-YC subunits. Reduction of NF-YB by dithiothreitol (DTT) was essential for reconstitution of specific NF-Y CCAAT box DNA binding activity in vitro. Approximately 30% of the Escherichia coli-derived NF-YB subunit existed as intermolecular disulfide-linked dimers. NF-YB mutants in which the highly conserved cysteine residues at positions 85 and 89 had been converted to serines existed only as monomers and did not require DTT for functional NF-Y DNA binding activity. DTT was required, however, for the functional association of NF-YC with wild-type NF-YB but not with the NF-YB cysteine mutants. The cellular redox factors Ref-1 and adult T-cell leukemia-derived factor stimulated the DNA binding activity of recombinant NF-Y in the absence of DTT. Cells treated with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, an irreversible inhibitor of thioredoxin reductase, exhibited reduced endogenous NF-Y DNA binding activity. Together these results suggest that the cellular redox environment of mammalian cells is an important posttranscriptional regulator of NF-Y subunit association and DNA binding activities.
Due to the misuse of chemical pesticides, small green leafhoppers (Empoasca onukii Matsuda) have developed resistance to pesticides, thereby posing a serious problem to the tea industry. Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are an important family of enzymes that are involved in pesticide resistance in Empoasca onukii Matsuda. Empoasca onukii GST sigma 1 (EoGSTs1, GenBank: {"type":"entrez-nucleotide","attrs":{"text":"MK443501","term_id":"1722503015","term_text":"MK443501"}}MK443501) is a member of the GST family. In this study, the full-length cDNA of EoGSTs1 was cloned by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qPCR), and its taxonomic identity was examined. Furthermore, we performed bioinformatics and phylogenetic analyses of the gene and structural and functional domain prediction of the protein. The results demonstrate that EoGSTS1 belongs to the Sigma family of GSTs; the full-length EoGSTs1 cDNA is 841 bp with a 624-bp coding region that encodes a 23.68932-kDa protein containing 207 amino acids. The theoretical isoelectric point (IEP) was calculated to be 6.00. Phylogenetic analysis indicates that EoGSTS1 is closely related to the Sub psaltriayangi subfamily of the Cicadoidea superfamily in order Hemiptera, whereas it is distantly related to Periplaneta americana of order Blattodea. Amino acid sequence alignment of EoGSTS1 and GSTs from four other insects of order Hemiptera revealed protein sequence conservation. Tertiary structure analysis and structural domain functional predictions of the protein revealed that EoGSTS1 contains nine α helices and two β sheets with one conserved GST domain. The results of enzyme activity assay showed that recombinant EoGSTs1 (rEoGSTs1) protein had catalytic activity for substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and exhibited the highest activity at pH 7 and 25 °C. The Michaelis constant Km of rEoGSTs1 protein was 0.07782 ± 0.01990 mmol/L, and the maximum reaction rate Vmax was 12.15 ± 1.673 µmol/min⋅mg. Our study clarified the taxonomic identity of small green leafhopper EoGSTs1 and revealed some properties of the gene and its encoded protein sequence. According to the catalytic activity of the rEoGSTs1 enzyme on the model substrate CDNB, we infer that it functions in the degradation of exogenous substances.
Six Alpha-class glutathione S-transferase (GST) subunits were cloned from domestic turkey livers, which are one of the most susceptible animals known to the carcinogenic mycotoxin aflatoxin B₁. In most animals, GST dysfunction is a risk factor for susceptibility toward AFB₁, and we have shown that turkeys lack GSTs with affinity toward the carcinogenic intermediate exo-aflatoxin B(1)-8-9-epoxide (AFBO). Conversely, mice are resistant to AFB₁ carcinogenesis, due to high constitutive expression of mGSTA3 that has high affinity toward AFBO. When expressed in Escherichia coli, all six tGSTA subunits possessed conjugating activities toward substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB), ethacrynic acid (ECA), and cumene hydroperoxide (CHP) with tGSTA1.2 appearing most active. Interestingly, tGSTA1.1, which lacks one of the four Alpha-class signature motifs, possessed enzymatic activities toward all substrates. All had comparable activities toward AFBO conjugation, an activity absent in turkey liver cytosols. E. coli-expressed mGSTA3 conjugated AFBO with more than 3-fold greater activity than that of tGSTAs and had higher activity toward GST prototype substrates. Mouse hepatic cytosols had approximately 900-fold higher catalytic activity toward AFBO compared with those from turkey. There was no apparent amino acid profile in tGSTAs that might correspond to specificity toward AFBO, although tGSTA1.2, which had slightly higher AFBO-trapping ability, shared Tyr¹⁰⁸ with mGSTA3, a residue postulated to be critical for AFBO trapping activity in mammalian systems. The observation that recombinant tGSTAs detoxify AFBO, whereas their hepatic forms do not, implies that the hepatic forms of these enzymes are silenced by one or more regulatory mechanisms.
Abstract Glutathione S -transferase in the Australian sheep blowfly, Lucilia cuprina , was studied using 3,4-dichloronitrobenzene (DCNB) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrates. The optimum pHs for enzyme activity were 7.5–8.0 and 6.7–7.4 for DCNB and CDNB conjugations, respectively. Inclusion of glutathione and bovine serum albumin in the homogenizing buffer protected the glutathione S -transferase from inhibition by endogenous compounds present in extracts of final instar larvae and of adults less than 7–8 days old. Conjugation activities for DCNB and CDNB increased throughout larval development to reach a peak early in the pupal stage. Activity then decreased through the remainder of the pupal stage and for the first 6–7 days after emergence of the adult. Almost all of the decrease in activity during the first 6 days of the adult occurred in the abdomen, which accounted for 85% of total activity in the adult female at emergence but only 47% at 6 days. Larval DCNB conjugation activity was localized almost entirely in the fat body (94%), whereas only 50% of the CDNB conjugation activity was in the fat body with the remainder in the cuticle (25%), gut (15%), and blood (10%). Adult and larval enzyme was induced ca. three- to four-fold by sodium phenobarbital. The induction was associated with changes in apparent V max rather than apparent K m , suggesting that phenobarbital caused increased production of forms of enzymes already present rather than inducing synthesis of altered or new forms.
Recombinant glutathione-S-transferases (GSTs) can be used as analytical tools for the development of simple insecticide quantification assays. This assay explores the ability of pyrethroids to promote inhibition of the GST-catalysing 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB)/glutathione (GSH) conjugation reaction. The sensing scheme is based on the pH change occurring in a weak buffer system by the GST reaction, which is measured using a spectrophotometer and the dye indicator bromothymol blue (616 nm). Practical use depends on the recognition affinity of the GST for insecticides, inhibition kinetics, enzyme stability and compatibility with the detection assay. In this study we compared the recombinant GSTs AgGSTD1-6 and AdGSTD1-1 from the mosquito vectors Anopheles gambiae and Anopheles dirus, respectively, with high affinity for pyrethroids, for their suitability for detecting pyrethroids in vector disease control programmes. The results showed that AgGSTD1-6 was the most suitable enzyme with the best structural stability at higher temperatures (T m = 57°C) and pH optima in the alkaline range (pH 7.7). Using the AgGSTD1-6, we subsequently developed a pH - change colourimetric assay for detecting pyrethroids. Linear calibration curves were obtained for deltamethrin (R 2 = 0.99) with useful concentration ranges of 0–50 µg mL−1. The effect of temperature in the range 25–40°C on the pyrethroid quantification assay was negligible. The assay was validated with extracts from insecticide sprayed surfaces and found to be reproducible and reliable compared with the standard reverse-phase high performance liquid chromatography (Rp-HPLC) method. The potential of the assay for monitoring insecticide residues in the frame of insecticide based malaria control interventions is discussed.
A new barbiturate has been synthesized from the ethanolic solution of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, barbituric acid, and triethylamine. The structure of the isolated molecule has been confirmed by ultraviolet (UV)-visible (VIS), infrared (IR), proton magnetic resonance (PMR), 13 C nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR), correlation spectroscopy (COSY) and mass spectrometry (MS) spectral studies. Elemental analysis and other qualitative tests have also been carried out to elucidate the proposed structure. The anticonvulsant activity of the synthesized molecule was tested by the maximal electro shock method. Albino rats of either sex weighing 150–200 g were used for the study. The drug was given 1h before the induction of maximal electro shock test. The different stages of convulsions such as tonic flexor, tonic extensor, clonus convulsion, stupor, and recovery/death were examined. Reduction in the extensor phase of convulsion was noted for the synthesized barbiturate.
1. Six enzymes which collectively catalyze a number of glutathione-dependent synthetic, catabolic and detoxification reactions were examined along with glutathione status in liver, gills, and posterior kidney of channel catfish (Ictalurus punctatus). 2. Hepatic GSH concentrations were higher than those in kidney or gills. Oxidized glutathione (GSSG) concentrations were similar among the three tissues. 3. Specific (per unit protein) gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase (GCS) activity was greater in the gills than in liver or posterior kidney. However, total organ GCS activity was greatest in the liver. 4. Specific and total hepatic glutathione peroxidase (GSH peroxidase) activities were substantially greater than those of gills or kidney. 5. Similar specific glutathione reductase (GSSG reductase) activities were observed among all three tissues. 6. All three tissues exhibited glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). Specific and total organ GST activities were highest in the liver, followed by the posterior kidney and gills. 7. Gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase (GGT) activity was present in the posterior kidney, but was undetectable in the gills or liver.
Ten compounds with a wide variety of structures, which decreased hepatic glutachione (GSH) content at an early time period after their administration, simultaneously increased hepatic heme oxygenase, ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) and S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase (SAMDC) activities in rats. The compounds examined were four alpha, beta-unsaturated carbonyl compounds, two prototype substrates for GSH transferase(s), one epoxide, two isothiocyanates, and an indicator of hepatic function test. Time course studies with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB), which are prototype substrates for GSH transferases, showed that there was an inverse relationship between the early depletion of hepatic GSH content and induction of heme oxygenase, ODC and SAMDC together with a decrease in cytochrome P-450 content and an increase in putrescine content. Buthionine sulfoximine (BSO), an inhibitor of GSH synthesis, also increased heme oxygenase and SAMDC activities, but not ODC, and it tended to enhance the induction of the enzymes evoked by diethyl maleate (DEM), phorone and CDNB with the sustained depletion of GSH content. In contrast, GSH treatment inhibited DEM-, phorone-, and CDNB-mediated induction of these enzymes and the early depletion of GSH content. N-Acetylcysteine failed to inhibit DEM- and phorone-mediated induction of these enzymes and the early depletion of GSH content, while it inhibited somewhat these changes produced by CDNB. The findings suggest that the early depletion of hepatic GSH content is prerequisite for and plays a role in the induction of heme oxygenase, ODC and SAMDC.
A glutathione transferase (GST) mutant with four active-site substitutions (Phe(10)-->Pro/Ala(12)-->Trp/Leu(107)-->Phe/Leu(108)-->Arg) (C36) was isolated from a library of active-site mutants of human GST A1-1 by the combination of phage display and mechanism-based affinity adsorption [Hansson, Widersten and Mannervik (1997) Biochemistry 36, 11252-11260]. C36 was selected on the basis of its affinity for the transition-state analogue 1-(S-glutathionyl)-2,4, 6-trinitrocyclohexadienate. C36 affords a 10(5)-fold rate enhancement over the uncatalysed reaction between reduced glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), as evidenced by the ratio between k(cat)/K(m) and the second-order rate constant k(2). The present study shows that C36 can evolve to an even higher catalytic efficiency by an additional site-specific mutation. Random mutations of the fifth active-site residue 208 allowed the identification of 18 variants, of which the mutant C36 Met(208)-->Cys proved to be the most active form. The altered activity was substrate selective such that the catalytic efficiency with CDNB and with 1-chloro-6-trifluoromethyl-2,4-dinitrobenzene were increased 2-3-fold, whereas the activity with ethacrynic acid was decreased by a factor of 8. The results show that a single-point mutation in the active site of an enzyme may modulate the catalytic activity without being directly involved as a functional group in the enzymic mechanism. Such limited modifications are relevant both to the natural evolution and the in vitro redesign of proteins for novel functions.
Abstract Glutathione S-transferase (GST) has been implicated in the process of biotransformation of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and of other organic pollutants by Chironomidae larvae. We have purified and characterized GST from cytosolic fractions of Chironomidae larvae. GST with an M r of 23 kDa has been purified to homogeneity from larvae by centrifugation, size exclusion chromatography on Sephadex G25, and glutathione affinity and anion exchange chromatography. The purified enzyme exhibited moderate activity towards 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 4-nitropyridine- N -oxide, p -nitrobenzyl chloride, ethacrynic acid, and cumene hydroperoxide. The enzyme was homogeneous on gel isoelectric focusing and on SDS gel electrophoresis. Its isoelectric point was estimated to be 5.5. The enzyme had a maximum activity at approximately pH 8 and showed activity between 30 and 40°C. It became inactive at higher temperature (>50°C) for 5 min. The N-terminal sequence analysis of the amino acids shows a high % of conserved regions in the enzyme. The enzyme activity was comparable to levels of metabolism observed by animal GST involved in the detoxification of xenobiotics.
1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), an intracellular glutathione-depleting agent, has been shown to have an adverse effect on erythrocyte membrane integrity. In the current study, we have demonstrated that CDNB caused haemolysis of human red blood cells (RBC) at higher concentrations (>or= 5 mM). The haemolysis induced by CDNB was preceded by the leakage of K(+) from the cells suggesting the colloid-osmotic nature of this lysis. The inclusion of molecules of increasing size in the extracellular media inhibited both the rate and extent of haemolysis thus supporting the proposal of CDNB-induced pore formation. The size of membrane lesions increased with an increase in the concentration of CDNB. SDS-PAGE demonstrated that CDNB causes the polymerisation and/or fragmentation of membrane proteins. Although CDNB has been shown to cause a drastic reduction in membrane thiols, our data suggest that the CDNB-induced formation of membrane disulfide bonds as a prima facie cause of permeability enhancement is unlikely.
BACKGROUND ::: The glutathione transferase (GST) superfamily is involved in the detoxification of various xenobiotics. We have identified a GST mRNA that was induced in the fat bodies of a silkworm strain exhibiting diazinon resistance and have investigated the enzyme properties of this GST. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: A soluble recombinant protein was overexpressed in Escherichia coli. Amino acid residues of interest were changed to alanine by site-directed mutagenesis. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS ::: Phylogenetic analysis of the deduced amino acid sequence indicates that this GST belongs to an unclassified group previously reported in mosquitoes. This enzyme, named bmGSTu, has highly conserved amino acid residues, including Tyr7, Ser12 and Asn50. A recombinant bmGSTu was able to catalyze the biotranslation of glutathione with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, a synthetic substrate of GST. Kinetic analysis of bmGSTu mutants indicated that Tyr7, Ser12 and Asn50 are involved in enzyme function. ::: ::: ::: GENERAL SIGNIFICANCE ::: These results support the hypothesis that bmGSTu may play a role in insecticide resistance in Bombyx mori.
BACKGROUND ::: Both livers and hepatocytes from pigs have been proposed for the treatment of end-stage liver diseases, as an alternative to allogeneic liver transplants. However, little is known of the capability of porcine hepatocytes to fulfill the biotransformation pathways of toxic compounds, including those released from livers in acute failure. We have studied the activity and expression of detoxifying enzymes in porcine livers and in cultured hepatocytes and their induction by phenobarbital. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Cytochromes P450 (CYP) 1A, 2B, and 3A and GST-like activities were tested with the following specific substrates: 7-ethoxyresorufin, 7-pentoxyresorufin, nifedipine, testosterone, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, and ethacrinic acid. CYP 1A1/2-, 2B1/2-, 2E1- and 3A4-related and GSTalpha proteins were analyzed by Western blotting and CYP 1A1/2, 2B1/2, 2C6, 2E1, and 3A4, aldehyde dehydrogenase, epoxide hydrolase, and GSTalpha-like RNA by Northern blotting. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Enzymatic activities reflecting the expression of CYP 1A-, CYP 2B-, CYP 2E1-, and CYP 3A-like genes, that is, ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase, pentoxyresorufin-O-deethylase, nifedipine oxidase and testosterone 6beta-hydroxylase, and chlorzoxazone 6-hydroxylase, were identified in pig livers. CYP 1A and CYP 2E1, GSTalpha-like proteins, CYP 1A, 2C, and 2E, epoxide hydrolase, aldehyde dehydrogenase, and GST like RNA were expressed in vivo and in vitro. CYP 2B and CYP 3A RNA and proteins, and their associated activities were induced by phenobarbital. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: Porcine hepatocytes express the most important biotransformation enzymes and their corresponding activities and RNA. Thus, livers and hepatocytes from pigs can detoxify a large spectrum of exogenous and endogenous compounds, which makes them a convenient substitute for allogeneic transplants for patients with liver failure.
Kinetic and equilibrium data are reported for the reactions of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene with sulphite ions in dimethyl sulphoxide–water mixtures. Attack at the unsubstituted 5-position yields an observable σ-adduct and is shown to be more rapid by a factor of ca. 12 than attack at the 1-position. The latter process which yields the substitution product is likely to involve intermolecular attack of sulphite on the substrate rather than intramolecular re-arrangement of the 5-adduct.
Three lactate dehydrogenase isozymes and malate dehydrogenase purified from mouse tissues were inactivated with time by low concentration of gossypol. The degree of enzyme inactivation is both gossypol- and enzyme-concentration-dependent. Under the same experimental conditions, lactate dehydrogenase-X and lactate dehydrogenase-5 were inactivated faster than lactate dehydrogenase-1. NADH was shown to partially protect the enzymes against inactivation by gossypol. The results of this study suggest that the enzymes are inactivated by the minor components in gossypol preparations. Isozymes of glutathione S-transferases were reversibly inhibited by gossypol. The inhibition of transferases by gossypol was shown to be competitive with respect to the 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. It is proposed that the male antifertility effect of gossypol may be related to the selective inactivation of sperm-specific lactate dehydrogenase-X.
The metabolic competence of cultured bovine colon epithelial cells was evaluated by determining activities of phase I and II enzymes in colonocytes cultured for different intervals (maximum of 10 days) compared with activities measured in freshly isolated cells. Cytochrome P450 1A1-associated 7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase (EROD) activity was detectable in freshly isolated colonocytes and in colon cells maintained in culture for up to 5 days. In contrast to liver samples, cytochrome P450 3A4-associated 7-benzyloxyresorufin O-debenzylase (BROD) activity was not detectable in bovine colon cells. Prostaglandin H synthase-mediated production of prostaglandin E2 was found in freshly isolated and also in cultured colonocytes. Both isoenzymes (COX 1 and COX 2) were detected in cultured cells. To examine phase II metabolic potency, activities of N-acetyltransferases 1 and 2, of phenol and amino sulfotransferases, of glutathione S-transferases alpha, mu, pi and theta and of UDP-glucuronyltransferase were measured. N-Acetyltransferase (NAT) activity (substrate p-aminobenzoic acid, PABA, a diagnostic substrate for the human NAT-1 enzyme) was stable under culture conditions and during the observed culture period comparable to that of freshly isolated cells. In contrast, sulfamethazine, a specific substrate for NAT-2, was not acetylated, neither in bovine colon cells nor in bovine liver samples. Whereas activity of amino sulfotransferase (substrate 2-naphthylamine) decreased continuously during the entire culture period, the activity of phenol sulfotransferase (substrate 1-naphthol) decreased only slowly. Activity of total glutathione S-transferases (alpha, mu, and pi) (substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene) decreased after 2 days in culture, but was stable during the following culture period. Activity of glutathione S-transferase theta (substrate epoxy-3-nitrophenoxypropane) changed during the culture period. At the beginning and the end (after 10 days) of the culture period maximum activity was measured. Activity of UDP-glucuronyltransferase increased during the culture period reaching a maximum after 7 days. The results show that cultured bovine epithelial colon cells express several enzyme activities required for the biotransformation of xenobiotics.
Abstract. Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a type of chronic skin inflammation and one of the most common relapsing allergic diseases, which presents with a severe rash and itchy skin lesions. The pathogenesis of AD is primarily associated with hyper-activated mast cells, which makes them an effective treatment target. After cross-linking the antigen/immunoglobulin (Ig) E complex binds to its high affinity receptor FcεRl on the surface of mast cells. The cells subsequently secrete excessive pro-inflammatory mediators, including histamine and cytokines, which lead to pruritus and immune cell infiltration in the skin lesions. The present study screened natural compounds that have an inhibitory effect on IgE/antigen-mediated secretory activity. It was revealed that cryptotanshinone (CRT), a natural compound extracted from Salvia miltiorrhiza Bunge, had inhibitory effects on the IgE/antigen complex. The underlying mechanism by which CRT exerted an anti-allergy/inflammatory function was investigated using rat basophilic leukaemia (RBL) cells for degranulation assays and a 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB)-induced AD Balb/c mouse model for in vivo study. CRT effectively mitigated the secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines, including tumor necrosis factor-α and interleukin 1β, as well as immune cell infiltration into skin lesions in a mouse model of AD-like skin disease induced by dinitrochlorobenzene. The inhibitory effect of CRT on IgE-mediated mast cell degranulation was mediated by the inhibition of tyrosine kinase-dependent degranulation signalling pathways involving spleen tyrosine kinase and Lyn. The present study revealed CRT as an inhibitor of mast cell degranulation. Therefore, CRT may be considered for development as a therapeutic drug to treat IgE-mediated skin diseases.
Mast cells play an important role in type Ⅰ hypersensitivity reactions via the release of histamine, chemokines, and various inflammatory cytokines. Secretion and activation of these strong pro-inflammatory mediators are stimulated by binding of the cross-linked IgE/antigen complex and its high affinity receptor FcεRl on surfaces of mast cells (6) . Previous studies have revealed that IgE/antigen-FcεRl binding activates IκB kinase α and β (IKKα and IKKβ), leading to the activation of nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB), which translocates into nucleus to regulate the inflammatory response. Conversely, IgE/antigen-FcεRl binding phosphorylates synaptosome-associated protein 23 (SNAP-23) atopic dermatitis, cryptotanshinone, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, Balb/c, degranulation, in an NF-κB-independent manner, which is responsible for late-phase allergic reactions (7, 8) . Finally, activated NF-κB increases the production and secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines including tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α), interleukin (IL)-1β, -4, and -6 (9, 10) . Accordingly, it is considered that both the inhibition of pro-inflammatory cytokine production and of NF-κB dependent signalling molecules are an effective strategies to alleviate allergic reactions.
Due to the misuse of chemical pesticides, small green leafhoppers (Empoasca onukii Matsuda) have developed resistance to pesticides, thereby posing a serious problem to the tea industry. Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are an important family of enzymes that are involved in pesticide resistance in Empoasca onukii Matsuda. Empoasca onukii GST sigma 1 (EoGSTs1, GenBank: MK443501) is a member of the GST family. In this study, the full-length cDNA of EoGSTs1 was cloned by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qPCR), and its taxonomic identity was examined. Furthermore, we performed bioinformatics and phylogenetic analyses of the gene and structural and functional domain prediction of the protein. The results demonstrate that EoGSTS1 belongs to the Sigma family of GSTs; the full-length EoGSTs1 cDNA is 841 bp with a 624-bp coding region that encodes a 23.68932-kDa protein containing 207 amino acids. The theoretical isoelectric point (IEP) was calculated to be 6.00. Phylogenetic analysis indicates that EoGSTS1 is closely related to the Sub psaltriayangi subfamily of the Cicadoidea superfamily in order Hemiptera, whereas it is distantly related to Periplaneta americana of order Blattodea. Amino acid sequence alignment of EoGSTS1 and GSTs from four other insects of order Hemiptera revealed protein sequence conservation. Tertiary structure analysis and structural domain functional predictions of the protein revealed that EoGSTS1 contains nine α helices and two β sheets with one conserved GST domain. The results of enzyme activity assay showed that recombinant EoGSTs1 (rEoGSTs1) protein had catalytic activity for substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and exhibited the highest activity at pH 7 and 25 • C. The Michaelis constant Km of rEoGSTs1 protein was 0.07782 ± 0.01990 mmol/L, and the maximum reaction rate Vmax was 12.15 ± 1.673 µmol/min·mg. Our study clarified the taxonomic identity of small green leafhopper EoGSTs1 and revealed some properties of the gene and its encoded protein sequence. According to the catalytic activity of the rEoGSTs1 enzyme on the model substrate CDNB, we infer that it functions in the degradation of exogenous substances.
Six Alpha-class glutathione S-transferase (GST) subunits were cloned from domestic turkey livers, which are one of the most susceptible animals known to the carcinogenic mycotoxin aflatoxin B 1 . In most animals, GST dysfunction is a risk factor for susceptibility toward AFB 1 , and we have shown that turkeys lack GSTs with affinity toward the carcinogenic intermediate exo-aflatoxin B 1 -8-9-epoxide (AFBO). Conversely, mice are resistant to AFB 1 carcinogenesis, due to high constitutive expression of mGSTA3 that has high affinity toward AFBO. When expressed in Escherichia coli, all six tGSTA subunits possessed conjugating activities toward substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB), ethacrynic acid (ECA), and cumene hydroperoxide (CHP) with tGSTA1.2 appearing most active. Interestingly, tGSTA1.1, which lacks one of the four Alpha-class signature motifs, possessed enzymatic activities toward all substrates. All had comparable activities toward AFBO conjugation, an activity absent in turkey liver cytosols. E. coli-expressed mGSTA3 conjugated AFBO with more than 3-fold greater activity than that of tGSTAs and had higher activity toward GST prototype substrates. Mouse hepatic cytosols had approximately 900-fold higher catalytic activity toward AFBO compared with those from turkey. There was no apparent amino acid profile in tGSTAs that might correspond to specificity toward AFBO, although tGSTA1.2, which had slightly higher AFBO-trapping ability, shared Tyr 108 with mGSTA3, a residue postulated to be critical for AFBO trapping activity in mammalian systems. The observation that recombinant tGSTAs detoxify AFBO, whereas their hepatic forms do not, implies that the hepatic forms of these enzymes are silenced by one or more regulatory mechanisms.
The previously uncharacterized Drosophila melanogaster Epsilon-class glutathione transferases E6 and E7 were immobilized on nanoporous alumina. The nanoporous anodized alumina membranes were derivatized with 3-aminopropyl-triethoxysilane, and the amino groups were activated with carbonyldiimidazole to allow coupling of the enzymes via ε-amino groups. Kinetic analyses of the immobilized enzymes were carried out in a circulating flow system using CDNB (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene) as substrate, followed by specificity screening with alternative substrates. A good correlation was observed between the substrate screening data for immobilized enzyme and corresponding data for the enzyme in solution. A limited kinetic study was also carried out on immobilized human GST S1-1 (also known as hematopoietic prostaglandin D synthase). The stability of the immobilized enzymes was virtually identical to that of enzymes in solution, and no leakage of enzyme from the matrix could be observed.
An important aspect of the catalytic mechanism of microsomal glutathione transferase (MGST1) is the activation of the thiol of bound glutathione (GSH). GSH binding to MGST1 as measured by thiolate anion formation, proton release, and Meisenheimer complex formation is a slow process that can be described by a rapid binding step ( = 47 ± 7 mM) of the peptide followed by slow deprotonation (k2 = 0.42 ± 0.03 s-1). Release of the GSH thiolate anion is very slow (apparent first-order rate k-2 = 0.0006 ± 0.00002 s-1) and thus explains the overall tight binding of GSH. It has been known for some time that the turnover (kcat) of MGST1 does not correlate well with the chemical reactivity of the electrophilic substrate. The steady-state kinetic parameters determined for GSH and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) are consistent with thiolate anion formation (k2) being largely rate-determining in enzyme turnover (kcat = 0.26 ± 0.07 s-1). Thus, the chemical step of thiolate addition is not rate-limiting and can be stud...
Glutathione transferase ϱ has been purified to homogeneity from human erythrocytes. The enzyme has a molecular weight of 47,500 and is composed of two subunits of the same apparent molecular weight. The enzyme is active in catalyzing the reaction of glutathione, as a nucleophile, with a variety of compounds bearing an electrophilic center. Thioether formation with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and with ethacrynic acid are among the most rapid reactions under standard assay conditions. The erythrocyte enzyme has a different amino acid composition from that of glutathione transferases from human liver, whereas all of the liver enzymes appear to have the same composition. The erythrocyte transferase also differs from the liver transferases in its low isoelectric point of 4.5, its lack of reactivity with antibody produced against a liver glutathione transferase, and its more limited spectrum of substrates. The enzyme is present at a concentration of about 1.2 mg/100 ml of packed human erythrocytes.
Abstract Glutathione (GSH) conjugation of saligenin cyclic phosphates produces S -(2-hydroxybenzyl)-glutathione which inhibits glutathione transferase (GSH- t , EC 2.5.1.18). The inhibitory effect of a series of S -(ring-substituted benzyl)glutathiones and some other GSH conjugates on GSH- t was elucidated. GSH- t activities were measured by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) GSH conjugation and by a GSH-dependent demethylation of [ ring - 14 C]fenitrothion. The latter activity was optimal with equine liver GSH- t at pH 7–11 and 42°C and with house fly abdominal GSH- t at pH 8.0 and 37°C. The inhibitory activity of the GSH conjugates against CDNB GSH conjugation was correlative ( r = 0.59) with that against demethylation of fenitrothion. The highest inhibitory activity was found in S -(1-naphthylmethyl)glutathione among the series of the conjugates. Kinetic studies for the inhibition of CDNB GSH conjugation showed that S -(1-naphthylmethyl)glutathione was competitive with both GSH and CDNB, whereas some of the less active conjugates were only competitive with GSH. Inhibitor constants ( K i ) for S -(1-naphthylmethyl)-, S -(2-chlorobenzyl)-, S -(2-hydroxybenzyl)-, and S -(2,4-dinitrophenyl)-GSH conjugates were 2.5, 6.3, 11.0, and 14.0 μ M , respectively.
Oltipraz [5-(2-pyrazinyl)-4-methyl-1,2-dithiole-3-thione] protects against chemical carcinogenesis in several animal models and is currently under evaluation as a possible chemopreventive agent in humans. Ideally, clinical chemopreventive interventions use dosing regimens that maximize efficacy while minimizing toxicity. Toward this end, the chemopreventive efficacy achieved by administration of intermittent doses of oltipraz was evaluated in rats. F344 rats were treated with oltipraz (0.5 mmol/kg, p.o.) once weekly, twice weekly, or daily over a 5-week period. After the first week, all rats were gavaged with 20 micrograms/kg of aflatoxin B1 for 28 consecutive days. Livers were analyzed 2 months after the last aflatoxin B1 dose, and the volume of liver occupied by glutathione S-transferase (GST)-P positive foci, a presumptive marker of neoplasia, was observed to be decreased > 95%, > 97%, or > 99% in livers of rats receiving once-, twice-weekly or daily oltipraz treatments, respectively. The chemopreventive actions of oltipraz have been associated with increases in the levels of phase 2 detoxifying enzymes, such as the glutathione S-transferase isozymes. Accordingly, GST conjugation activity measured with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate increased 1.5-, 1.8-, or 2.4-fold for the once-weekly, twice-weekly or daily treatments, respectively, throughout a 7-day period. Quantitative HPLC analyses of GST subunits 24 h after 2 or 7 daily administrations of oltipraz showed that the levels of subunits Yb1, Yp, Yc2, and Ya2 were increased with maximum elevations of 5.6-, 11.1-, 6.4-, and 10.4-fold, respectively. In comparison, levels of subunits Yb2 and Yc1 were modestly elevated 1.8- to 2.6-fold, respectively, whereas subunit Ya1 was not induced. Remarkably, the levels of subunit Yp and Ya2 remained elevated approximately 2.3-fold 7 days after a single dose of oltipraz. In contrast, the levels of subunits Yb1 and Yc2 diminished to approximate control levels within 7 days after a single dose of oltipraz. GST mRNA levels for Ya, Yb, and Yp were measured by Northern blot analysis and were found to be elevated maximally to 13.7-, 13.5-, and 3.9-fold, respectively, after two daily oltipraz doses. Interestingly, GST Ya and Yb mRNA diminished to constitutive levels after 7 daily doses of oltipraz, with no corresponding decreases in GST subunit or activity levels. The levels of GST Ya and Yb mRNA decreased to constitutive levels within 4 days after a single oltipraz administration, whereas GST Yp mRNA levels remained elevated throughout the 7-day follow-up period.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Glutathione transferases (GST) were purified from locally isolated bacteria, Acinetobacter calcoaceticus Y1, by glutathione-affinity chromatography and anion exchange, and their substrate specificities were investigated. SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis revealed that the purified GST resolved into a single band with a molecular weight (MW) of 23 kDa. 2-dimensional (2-D) gel electrophoresis showed the presence of two isoforms, GST1 (pI 4.5) and GST2 (pI 6.2) with identical MW. GST1 was reactive towards ethacrynic acid, hydrogen peroxide, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, and trans,trans-hepta-2,4-dienal while GST2 was active towards all substrates except hydrogen peroxide. This demonstrated that GST1 possessed peroxidase activity which was absent in GST2. This study also showed that only GST2 was able to conjugate GSH to isoproturon, a herbicide. GST1 and GST2 were suggested to be similar to F0KLY9 (putative glutathione S-transferase) and F0KKB0 (glutathione S-transferase III) of Acinetobacter calcoaceticus strain PHEA-2, respectively.
Glutathione (GSH), is a thiol-containing tripeptide, maintains redox homeostasis in plants under normal and stressful conditions. In this study, we investigated whether GSH involved in light-, dark-, Ca- and H 2 O 2 -induced stomatal movement in Arabidopsis. Application of GSH and a GSH decreasing chemical (CDNB; 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene) did not affect stomatal aperture in guard cells of Arabidopsis. Dark induced stomatal closure and light induced stomatal opening but pre-treatment of GSH and CDNB did not alter dark- and light-induced stomatal aperture. Treatment of guard cells with Ca and H 2 O 2 did not affect GSH contents in guard cells but induced stomatal closure in both wild type and chorinal-1 (ch1-1) mutant plants. In addition, pre-treatment of GSH and CDNB did not affect Caand H 2 O 2 -induced stomatal closure in both plants. Taken together these results suggest that GSH might not directly affect light-, dark-, Ca- and H 2 O 2 -induced stomatal movement in guard cells of Arabidopsis.
Glutathione S-transferases constitute a very important family of biotransformation enzymes, which catalyse the conjugation of glutathione to a broad spectrum of xenobiotics. In this study, cytosolic glutathione S-transferases enzymes were purified from lamprey (Petromyzon marinus) liver, using an affinity chromatography method. Enzymatic activity was determined towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, ethacrynic acid and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene. The application of a HPLC system associated to electrospray ionization mass spectrometry allowed the identification of three different subunits, with Mrs between 22,300 and 25,300 Da. The one with the low Mrs was the main form, with a retention time of 29.5 min, a pi-related class isoenzyme.
The effects of 1,2,3,4-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (1,2,3,4-TCDD) on drug-metabolizing enzymes were studied in male and female rats. 1,2,3,4-TCDD (25, 50, 100 and 200 mumol/kg) was administered by i.p. injection once. Among the cytochrome P-450 (P450)-mediated monooxygenase activities tested, 7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase (EROD) activities in both male and female rats, which are associated with CYP1A1, were remarkably induced by all doses of 1,2,3,4-TCDD. The relative induction to each control activity were from 3.0- to 24.5-fold and from 2.2- to 16.5-fold, respectively. Also, 1,2,3,4-TCDD increased other CYP1A-mediated monooxygenase activities such as 7-ethoxycoumarin O-deethylase (ECOD) and 7-methoxyresorufin O-demethylase (MROD) in male and female rats dose-dependently (1.4- to 4.3-fold). Western immunoblotting showed that the levels of CYP1A1 and CYP1A2 proteins in liver microsomes were increased by 1,2,3,4-TCDD. Although the activities of other P450-mediated monooxygenases, namely 7-pentoxyresorufin O-depentylase (PROD), 7-benzyloxyresorufin O-debenzylase (BROD), aminopyrine N-demethylase (APND) and nitrosodimethylamine N-demethylase (NDAND) in both male and female rats were induced at high doses (> or = 50 mumol/kg) of 1,2,3,4-TCDD, the relative level was low compared with those of the CYP1A-mediated monooxygenase such as EROD, ECOD or MROD. In addition to P450-mediated monooxygenase, there was significant induction in the activities of the Phase II drug-metabolizing enzymes, UDP-glucuronyltransferase (UGT) activities towards 4-nitrophenol (4-NP) and 7-hydroxycoumarin (7-HC) and glutathione S-transferase (GST) towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB) and DT-diaphorase. These results indicate that 1,2,3,4-TCDD induces both Phase I (CYP1A-mediated monooxygenase) and Phase II drug-metabolizing enzymes (UGT, GST, DT-diaphorase) in the male and female rat liver, and that the alterations of drug-metabolizing enzyme are characteristic of PCDD toxicity.
Glutathione transferase (GST) (EC 2.5.1.18) was purified from a cell extract of Issatchenkia orientalis, and two GST isoenzymes were isolated. They had molecular weights of 37,500 and 40,000 and were designated GST Y-1 and GST Y-2, respectively. GST Y-1 and GST Y-2 gave single bands with molecular weights of 22,000 and 23,500, respectively, on sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. GST Y-1 and GST Y-2 were immunologically distinguished from each other. GST Y-1 showed specific activity 10.4-times and 6.0-times higher when 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and o-dinitrobenzene were used as substrates, respectively, than GST Y-2. GST activity was not detected for either isoenzyme when other substrates such as bromosulfophthalein and trans-4-phenyl-3-buten-2-one were used. GST Y-1 and GST Y-2 had Km values of 0.51 and 0.75 mM for glutathione, respectively, and of 0.16 and 4.01 mM for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. GST Y-1 was significantly inhibited by Cibacron blue 3G-A, and GST Y-2 was significantly inhibited by bromosulfophthalein.
Chlorothalonil (2,4,5,6-tetrachloroisophthalonitrile) is a broad spectrum fungicide that is a potent acute toxicant to fish. Therefore, the metabolism of chlorothalonil was investigated in liver and gill cytosolic and microsomal fractions from channel catfish (Ictalurus punctatus) using HPLC. All fractions catalyzed the metabolism of chlorothalonil to polar metabolites. Chlorothalonil metabolism by cytosolic fractions was reduced markedly when glutathione (GSH) was omitted from the reaction mixtures. The lack of microsomal metabolism in the presence of either NADPH or an NADPH-regenerating system indicated direct glutathione S-transferase (GST)-catalyzed conjugation with GSH without prior oxidation by cytochrome P450. Cytosolic and microsomal GSTs from both tissues were also active toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), a commonly employed reference substrate. In summary, channel catfish detoxified chlorothalonil in vitro by GST-catalyzed GSH conjugation in the liver and gill. The present report is the first to confirm microsomal GST activity toward CDNB in gill and toward chlorothalonil in liver, and also of gill cytosolic GST activity towards chlorothalonil, in an aquatic species.
Abstract In vitro synthesis of Escherichia coli manganese-containing superoxide dismutase, directed by the plasmid pDT1-5, has been achieved. The Mn superoxide dismutase polypeptide was identified by electrophoresis on polyacrylamide gels, immunoprecipitation, and the competitive immunoprecipitation effect of pure, active E. coli Mn superoxide dismutase. Dithiothreitol and glutathione, but not cysteine, suppressed in vitro synthesis of Mn superoxide dismutase. The parallel syntheses of beta-lactamase and of another unidentified polypeptide were not suppressed by thiols. In vitro transcription of the E. coli Mn superoxide dismutase gene was similarly suppressed by glutathione, dithiothreitol, and beta-mercaptoethanol; but not by L-cysteine or thioglycolate. Compounds, such as diamide, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, potassium ferricyanide, and methylene blue, which are expected to deplete intracellular glutathione, caused the induction of Mn superoxide dismutase in anaerobic E. coli.
The in vitro interaction of dithiocarb (DTC) with rat liver glutathione S-transferase was studied, using reduced glutathione (GSH) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrates. The inhibition of the GST activity by DTC was dose dependent, but not linear. The different GST isoenzymes were inhibited to different degrees. Kinetic studies revealed uncompetitive inhibition towards GSH for GST AA, and an intermediate kinetic pattern between uncompetitive and noncompetitive inhibition for the other GST isoenzymes. With respect to CDNB, mixed type inhibition was found for most GST isoenzymes, and nearly uncompetitive inhibition for GST AA and M. Titration of remaining GSH in appropriate incubation mixtures with DTC revealed no GST catalyzed conjugation of DTC with GSH. It is concluded that DTC interact with GST by direct binding to these proteins. This binding could have a protective function against DTC.
The rates of the SN2 reactions of aqueous sodium hydroxide with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 2,4-dinitrophenetole at 25° and 2,4-dinitroanisole at four other temperatures have been measured. A unique J_ acidity function is defined by results for the three substrates at 25°. For 2,4-dinitroanisole the rate of change of J_ with sodium hydroxide concentration was independent of temperature. The results are discussed in terms of solvation-model explanations of acidity function behaviour. An extension of an equation for the calculation of ionic activity coefficients to the fitting of acidity functions for concentrated acid solutions is also applicable to the J_ function for aqueous sodium hydroxide.
In this study, two techniques were used to compare the specific activity and total concentration of mycelial glutathione S-transferase (GST) in fungal strains isolated from natural sources. The fungi identified as Aspergillus parasiticus and Aspergillus flavus have been divided into two groups based on their ability to produce aflatoxins. Altogether 26 fungi were isolated, among which 12 were capable of producing varying levels of aflatoxin and 14 were proved to be non-toxigenic. GST specific activity in mycelial preparation was measured spectrophotometrically using 2,1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as the substrate. The results showed that the mean GST activity in toxigenic isolates was 25.06 ± 9.8 μmol/mg protein/min which was 2.8-fold greater than that measured in non-toxigenic isolates (8.84 ± 5.5 μmol/mg protein/min). Moreover, the GST concentration was compared in toxigenic and non-toxigenic isolates using an Enzyme Linked Immunosorbent Assay based on antigen (fungal preparation) and antibody (antibody produced against fungal GST in rabbit). The results of ELISA showed that the mean GST level in toxigenic and non-toxigenic fungi was 1.17 ± 0.55 and 0.40 ± 0.24, respectively. These results further confirm that the aflatoxin production in the fungal strains is correlated with GST expression and using ELISA, it is possible to discriminate aflatoxin-producing fungi from their non-toxigenic counterparts.
Genetic polymorphisms of human glutathione S-transferases (hGSTs) have important implications for drug efficacy and cancer susceptibility. hGSTA1 is the most abundant subfamily of hGSTs. The aim of this study was to investigate the distribution of hGSTA1 genetic polymorphism in the Chinese population and whether there exists the potential activity alterations caused by this polymorphism. Therefore, genomic DNA was extracted from peripheral blood of 140 healthy Chinese people and 11 normal liver tissues obtained from patients who had undergone liver surgery. Two variants in the promoter region of the hGSTA1 gene were identified by polymerase chain reaction-restricted fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP). Activities toward selected substrates of the wild type (hGSTA1*A) and variant (hGSTA1*B) were measured spectrometrically using S-9 fractions from liver samples. D 5 -androstene-3,17-dione (AD), cumene hydroperoxide (CuOOH), and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) were used as marker substrates toward hGSTA1, hGSTA, and hGST, respectively. The kinetic parameters (Km, Vmax, and Vmax/Km )o f hGSTA1 were determined with different concentrations of AD. The results showed that, in the study population, the proportions of hGSTA1*A/*A, hGSTA1*A/*B, and hGSTA1*B/*B genotypes were 75.0, 24.3, and 0.7%, respectively, and the allele frequencies of hGSTA1*A and hGSTA1*B were detected to be 87.1 and 12.9%, respectively. The variant hGSTA1 showed a significantly decreased activity for AD isomerization as compared to the wild type. Kinetic analyses revealed that the Vmax value of the variant hGSTA1 was 48% of that of the wild type despite a Km value of 62% (p < 0.01). This means that the Vmax/Km in the variant hGSTA1 was 76%. These data indicate that the distribution of hGSTA1 gene is polymorphic in Chinese and is different from those in other racial populations. The promoter sequence polymorphism of the hGSTA1 gene is associated with decreased Km and Vmax values of the enzyme in individuals with the variant allele. This variant is also associated with a decrease in hGSTA1 activity toward preferred substrates. This altered activity, how
Treatment of cultured rat hepatocytes with 10 microM 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) resulted in an acute loss of cellular glutathione (GSH) within 30 min and a marked increase in spontaneous lactic dehydrogenase (LDH) leakage to the culture medium after 24 h, with obvious cellular degeneration as viewed by phase-contrast microscopy. Simultaneous treatment of the cells with alpha-tocopherol markedly protected the cells not only against LDH leakage but cellular degeneration in a dose-dependent manner. The EC50 of alpha-tocopherol was 0.1 microM, ca. 200 times less than normal plasma levels in the rat. In response to the inhibitory effects of alpha-tocopherol on the cytolysis as measured by LDH leakage, GSH biosynthesis was stimulated by CDNB, and cellular GSH levels returned to control levels. The recovery was inhibited by 0.2 mM buthionine-SR-sulfoximine (BSO), a specific inhibitor of gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase. However, the stimulation of GSH biosynthesis apparently was not essential for the protection from cytolysis by GSH depletion during the experimental period, because treatment with 0.2 mM BSO and 20 microM tocopherol completely protected the cells against the lysis induced by BSO up to 32 h without cellular GSH recovery. The results suggest that alpha-tocopherol may be a primary natural inhibitor of the cytolysis induced by xenobiotics which consume the cellular GSH in vivo.
The major glutathione S-transferase isoenzyme from bovine brain was isolated and purified approx. 500-fold. The enzyme has a pI of 7.39 +/- 0.02 and consists of two non-identical subunits having apparent Mr values of 22,000 and 24,000. The enzyme is uniformly distributed in brain, and kinetic data at pH 6.5 with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrate suggest a random rapid-equilibrium mechanism. The kinetics of inhibition by product, by GSH analogues and by NADH are consistent with the suggested mechanism and require inhibitor binding to several different enzyme forms. Long-chain fatty acids are excellent inhibitors of the enzyme, and values of 1nKi for hexanoic acid, octanoic acid, decanoic acid and lauric acid form a linear series when plotted as a function of alkyl chain length. A free-energy change of -1900 J/mol (-455 cal/mol) per CH2 unit is calculated for the contribution of hydrophobic binding energy to the inhibition constants. The turnover number of the purified enzyme dimer is approx. 3400/min. When compared with the second-order rate constant for the reaction between CDNB and GSH, the enzyme is providing a rate acceleration of about 1000-fold. The role of entropic contributions to this small rate acceleration is discussed.
Rate constants are reported for reaction of 4-substituted 1-chloro-2,6-dinitrobenzenes 1, 6-substituted 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzenes 2, and some of the corresponding 1-phenoxy derivatives, 3 and 4, with n-butylamine, pyrrolidine and piperidine in acetonitrile as solvent. Values of k1, the rate constant for nucleophilic attack at the 1-position, increase with increasing ring-activation but may be reduced by steric repulsion at the reaction centre which increases in the order Cl pyrrolidine > piperidine. (© Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, 69451 Weinheim, Germany, 2006)
The treatment of rats with propylthiouracil (PTU) resulted in an induction of not only cationic but also anionic glutathione (GSH) transferases. DE-52 column chromatography of the anionic GSH transferases divided into five main peaks (I-V). Peaks I-IV had a high activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). Peak V, which is a new form of the enzyme, showed high activity to ethacrynic acid. PTU induced peaks I and V, whereas phenobarbital increased the activity of only peak I.
BACKGROUND: Inter-individual variability in hepatic drug metabolizing enzyme (DME) activity is a major contributor to heterogeneity in drug clearance and safety. Accurate data on expression levels and activities of DMEs is an important prerequisite for in vitro-in vivo extrapolation and in silico based predictions. Characterization and assessment of inter-correlations of the major DMEs cytochrome P450s (CYPs) and UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs) have been extensively documented, but simultaneous quantification including other major DMEs has been lacking. OBJECTIVE: Assessment of inter-donor variability and inter-correlations of CYPs, UGTs, sulfotransferases (SULTs), glutathione S-transferases (GSTs), NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1) and NRH:quinone oxidoreductase 2 (NQO2) in a set of 20 individual liver homogenates. METHOD: The main drug metabolizing isoforms of CYP and UGT have been reaction phenotyped in individual liver microsomes and NQO1, NQO2, GSTT1 and GSTT2 in corresponding cytosol. In addition, we assessed overall SULT activity in liver cytosol using acetaminophen and 7-hydroxycoumarin as non-selective substrates and cytosolic GST activity using the non-selective substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). Expression of GST isoforms was also assessed. RESULTS AND CONCLUSION: While hepatic NQO1 activity was highly variable, NQO2 activity was more conserved. In addition, we found that of the hepatic GST isoforms, the variation in GSTM3 levels, which is poorly studied, was highest. The majority of significant correlations were found amongst CYP and UGT enzyme activities. The dataset presented provides the absolute quantification of the largest number of hepatic DME activities so far and constitute an essential resource for in silico toxicokinetic and metabolic modelling studies.
Glutathione transferases (GST) were purified from locally isolated bacteria, Acinetobacter calcoaceticus Y1, by glutathione-affinity chromatography and anion exchange, and their substrate specificities were investigated. SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis revealed that the purified GST resolved into a single band with a molecular weight (MW) of 23 kDa. 2-dimensional (2-D) gel electrophoresis showed the presence of two isoforms, GST1 (pI 4.5) and GST2 (pI 6.2) with identical MW. GST1 was reactive towards ethacrynic acid, hydrogen peroxide, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, and trans,trans-hepta-2,4-dienal while GST2 was active towards all substrates except hydrogen peroxide. This demonstrated that GST1 possessed peroxidase activity which was absent in GST2. This study also showed that only GST2 was able to conjugate GSH to isoproturon, a herbicide. GST1 and GST2 were suggested to be similar to F0KLY9 (putative glutathione S-transferase) and F0KKB0 (glutathione S-transferase III) of Acinetobacter calcoaceticus strain PHEA-2, respectively.
Genetic polymorphisms of human glutathione S-transferases (hGSTs) have important implications for drug efficacy and cancer susceptibility. hGSTA1 is the most abundant subfamily of hGSTs. The aim of this study was to investigate the distribution of hGSTA1 genetic polymorphism in the Chinese population and whether there exists the potential activity alterations caused by this polymorphism. Therefore, genomic DNA was extracted from peripheral blood of 140 healthy Chinese people and 11 normal liver tissues obtained from patients who had undergone liver surgery. Two variants in the promoter region of the hGSTA1 gene were identified by polymerase chain reaction-restricted fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP). Activities toward selected substrates of the wild type (hGSTA1*A) and variant (hGSTA1*B) were measured spectrometrically using S-9 fractions from liver samples. D 5 -androstene-3,17-dione (AD), cumene hydroperoxide (CuOOH), and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) were used as marker substrates toward hGSTA1, hGSTA, and hGST, respectively. The kinetic parameters (K m , V max , and V max /K m ) of hGSTA1 were determined with different concentrations of AD. The results showed that, in the study population, the proportions of hGSTA1*A/*A, hGSTA1*A/*B, and hGSTA1*B/*B genotypes were 75.0, 24.3, and 0.7%, respectively, and the allele frequencies of hGSTA1*A and hGSTA1*B were detected to be 87.1 and 12.9%, respectively. The variant hGSTA1 showed a significantly decreased activity for AD isomerization as compared to the wild type. Kinetic analyses revealed that the V max value of the variant hGSTA1 was 48% of that of the wild type despite a K m value of 62% ( p < 0.01). This means that the V max /K m in the variant hGSTA1 was 76%. These data indicate that the distribution of hGSTA1 gene is polymorphic in Chinese and is different from those in other racial populations. The promoter sequence polymorphism of the hGSTA1 gene is associated with decreased K m and V max values of the enzyme in individuals with the variant allele. This variant is also associated with a decrease in hGSTA1 activity toward preferred substrates. This altered activity, however, is accompanied by significant individual variation in the variant population.
The major glutathione S-transferase isoenzyme from bovine brain was isolated and purified approx. 500-fold. The enzyme has a pl of 7.39+0.02 and consists of two non-identical subunits having apparent M, values of 22000 and 24000. The enzyme is uniformly distributed in brain, and kinetic data at pH 6.5 with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrate suggest a random rapid-equilibrium mechanism. The kinetics of inhibition by product, by GSH analogues and by NADH are consistent with the suggested mechanism and require inhibitor binding to several different enzyme forms. Long-chain fatty acids are excellent inhibitors of the enzyme, and values of lnKi for hexanoic acid, octanoic acid, decanoic acid and lauric acid form a linear series when plotted as a function of alkyl chain length. A free-energy change of -1900 J/mol (-455 cal/mol) per CH2 unit is calculated for the contribution of hydrophobic binding energy to the inhibition constants. The turnover number of the purified enzyme dimer is approx. 3400/min. When compared with the second-order rate constant for the reaction between CDNB and GSH, the enzyme is providing a rate acceleration of about 1000-fold. The role of entropic contributions to this small rate acceleration is discussed.
The enzyme activities of glutathione peroxidase (GPO) with cumenehydroperoxide (cumene-OOH) and H2O2 as substrates, glutathione-S-transferase (GSH-S-T) with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrate, phosphofructokinase (PFK) and succinate dehydrogenase (SuDH) were determined for months 1 through 9 of pregnancy in the basal and peripheral sections of the corpora lutea graviditatis of Holstein-Frisean cows. The concentration of reduced glutathione (GSH) was simultaneously measured in these tissue sections. Substantial topographical differences were apparent in the enzyme activities. GPO and GSH-S-T showed activity differences during the course of pregnancy. During the 2nd month of pregnancy, minimal values for the activity of cytoplasmic GPO were observed in the basal areas. The cytoplasmic GPO in the peripheral areas displayed a contrasting dynamic with maximal values during the 6th month. GSH-S-T activities in basal and peripheral tissues appeared similar. GPO activities with H2O2 as substrate, likewise, displayed similar courses of activity in both tissue localizations. SuDH was more active in the peripheral than in the basal area. The activity of PFK displayed just the reverse course. The concentration of GSH in the peripheral area was not higher than in basal area.
Mercapturic acid biosynthesis is mediated by a series of at least four enzymatic steps and three cell membrane transport events, and is believed to require the interorgan shuttling of the various metabolic intermediates. To identify a single cell type that can carry out all of these metabolic and transport steps, the present study examined whether HepG2 cells, a human hepatoma-derived cell line, can convert an electrophilic chemical (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, CDNB) to its corresponding mercapturic acid (S-dinitrophenyl-N-acetylcysteine, DNP-NAC). The results demonstrate that HepG2 cells are able to convert CDNB to DNP-NAC in a dose- and time-dependent fashion. Intracellular conjugation with glutathione occurred rapidly, and the resulting glutathione S-conjugate was promptly transported into the culture medium, where it was sequentially degraded to the cysteinylglycine and cysteine S-conjugates. The cysteine conjugate was then presumably reabsorbed, and N-acetylated intracellularly to form the mercapturic acid. The mercapturic acid was found to accumulate slowly in the culture medium, such that after 4 h of incubation, 4-10% of the CDNB dose was recovered as the mercapturic acid. These data provide the first demonstration that a single cell type can carry out all of the transport and enzymatic steps required for mercapturic acid biosynthesis. HepG2 cells may provide a useful model system for studying this important detoxification pathway.
The guinea pig maximization test is one of the preferred test methods for the identification of skin sensitizers. The OECD/EC test guidelines allow for the conduct of a rechallenge in case doubtful reactions are obtained after challenge. The relevance of rechallenging was investigated by performing multiple challenges (up to four) in the maximization test with four well-known sensitizers of varying strength: nickel sulfate, sulfathiazole, benzocaine, and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. In addition, the effect of sodium lauryl sulfate (SLS)-pretreatment during topical induction with weak sensitizers on rechallenging was investigated. In contrast to what has frequently been hypothesized, rechallenge did not result in an increase of skin reaction as compared with the reactions observed after the first treatment. SLS pretreatment was very effective in increasing the initial challenge response to weak sensitizers. Subsequent rechallenging in these cases however again showed a decrease in sensitivity of the animals.
Akinetic spectrophotometric method has been described for the determination of metoprolol tartrate in commercialdosageforms.Theprocedureisbased on thereaction ofthedrug with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) in dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) at 100 1 °C. The reaction is investigated by measuring the change in absorbance with time at 420 nm. Fixed-time (A) and equilibrium methods are chosen for obtaining the calibration curves. Both calibration curves were found to be linear over the concentration range of 5-60 gm L -1 . The regression analysis of calibration data resulted in the linear regression equationsofA=-1.60810 -4 +3.9610 -3 CandA=7.3110 -4 +1.9010 -2 Cforfixedtime(A)andequilibrium methods, respectively. The limit of detection (LOD) for fixed time and equilibrium methods are 1.16 and 0.415 gm L -1 , respectively. The method has been successfully applied to the quantitation of metoprolol tartrate in commercial dosage forms. Statistical comparison of the results shows that there is no significant difference between the proposed methods and El-Ries’s spectrophotometric method.
Objective: Animal and in vivo human studies have observed that diabetes alters the expression of hepatic metabolizing cytochrome P450 (CYP) and glutathione S-transferase (GST) enzymes. The placenta has the ability to metabolize a number of xenobiotic and endogenous compounds by processes similar to those seen in the liver. Our objective was to compare placental xenobiotic metabolizing activity in diabetics to matched non-diabetic controls to determine if the presence of diabetes alters placental xenobiotic metabolizing activity.Methods: The catalytic activities of 7-ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylation [EROD] (CYP1A1), chlorzoxazone 6-hydroxylation (CYP2E1), dextromethorphan N-demethylation (CYP3A4), dextromethorphan O-demethylation (CYP2D6), and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) conjugation with glutathione (GST) from placentas of diet controlled (class A1) and insulin-dependent (class A2) gestational diabetics and overt diabetics were compared to matched controls.Results: No differences in EROD activity were observed among overt or gestational diabetics and their respectively matched controls. CYP2E1, 2D6, and 3A4 enzyme activity were not detected in human placentas. In contrast, GST activity was significantly reduced by 30% (P <.05) in overt diabetics as compared to their matched controls and gestational diabetics.Conclusion: Pregnant women with overt diabetes have reduced GST activity in the placenta, which could potentially result in exposure of the fetus to harmful reactive electrophilic metabolites.
The rates, and some derived parameters, of reaction of three heavy atom neutral nucleophils (thiourea, N-acetylthiourea, and selenourea) with 1-fluoro- and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene are measured and used to estimate (a) the mobilities of fluorine relative to chlorine, an important mechanistic feature of the usual (addition–elimination)SNAr reactions; and (b) the strength of the reagents. Results are compared with those for a range of neutral and anionic light (Periodic Table first row) and heavy atom (Periodic Table second or higher row) nucleophiles. Results for 1-iodo-2,4-dinitrobenzene are included where available. A marked reduction in F:Cl mobility ratios (which are matched by F:heavy halogen ratios), well known in following a sequence from light to heavy atom anionic nucleophiles, is now shown to occur also with neutral nucleophiles.
Abstract The effects of two plant phototoxins (xanthotoxin and harmine) and three plant phenols (quercetin, ellagic acid, and juglone) on detoxification enzymes were studied in the polyphagous cabbage looper, Trichoplusia ni , and the oligophagous black swallowtail, Papilio polyxenes . In P. polyxenes , glutathione S -transferase (GST) activities toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) were 1840 and 1750 nmol CDNB conjugate/mg protein/min in the cytosolic fraction of midgut and fat body, respectively. Dietary xanthotoxin (0.1% fw) increased the activity 2.5 and 2.9-fold in the midgut and fat body, respectively. Xanthotoxin-conjugating GST activity was absent in both tissues. In T. ni , GST activity, 513 nmol CDNB conjugate/mg protein/min in the cytosolic fraction of midgut, was increased almost twofold by dietary xanthotoxin and harmine. Plant phenols effectively inhibited in vitro GST and Se-independent glutathione peroxidase (GPOX) activities in a dose-dependent manner in the two species. Both GST and GPOX of P. polyxenes were 2-fold less sensitive to phenol inhibitors than T. ni . GST inhibition differed according to the nature of the inhibitor in P. polyxenes . Quercetin is competitive with CDNB and is non-competitive with respect to GSH. In contrast, inhibition by ellagic acid is non-competitive with CDNB and competitive with GSH. Juglone showed competitive inhibition with both GSH and CDNB.
Glutathione transferase (GST) activity as well as the expression of different classes of GST isoenzymes were studied in 14 lymphoma biopsies. The GST activity measured with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as a substrate, varied almost 9-fold. The expression of GSTs classes Pi, Alpha and Mu was studied by immunoblotting using antibodies against human GSTs. All lymphoma samples displayed high levels of class Pi GST. Class Alpha and Mu GSTs expression varied from not detectable to high. The observations were confirmed by quantitation of the three classes of GST with an ELISA technique. Nine of the patients were treated with bifunctional alkylating agents. A correlation between a clinical complete response to chemotherapy and low expression of GST Alpha was noted (p < 0.02).
The mitochondrial thioredoxin system (NADPH, thioredoxin reductase, thioredoxin) is a major redox regulator. Here we have investigated the redox correlation between this system and the mitochondrial enzyme cyclophilin D. The peptidyl prolyl cis-trans isomerase activity of cyclophilin D was stimulated by the thioredoxin system, while it was decreased by cyclosporin A and the thioredoxin reductase inhibitor auranofin. The redox state of cyclophilin D, thioredoxin 1 and 2 and peroxiredoxin 3 was measured in isolated rat heart mitochondria and in tumor cell lines (CEM-R and HeLa) by redox Western blot analysis upon inhibition of thioredoxin reductase with auranofin, arsenic trioxide, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene or after treatment with hydrogen peroxide. A concomitant oxidation of thioredoxin, peroxiredoxin and cyclophilin D was observed, suggesting a redox communication between the thioredoxin system and cyclophilin. This correlation was further confirmed by i) co-immunoprecipitation assay of cyclophilin D with thioredoxin 2 and peroxiredoxin 3, ii) molecular modeling and iii) depleting thioredoxin reductase by siRNA. We conclude that the mitochondrial thioredoxin system controls the redox state of cyclophilin D which, in turn, may act as a regulator of several processes including ROS production and pro-apoptotic factors release.
Abstract This study evaluated the activity and expression of the glutathione S -transferase (GST) detoxification isoenzymes in juvenile white sturgeon ( Acipenser transmontanus ) and Chinook salmon ( Oncorhynchus tshawytscha ) during acclimation from freshwater (2‰) to estuarine (15‰) salinity conditions. In white sturgeon, GST activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) increased significantly ( P = 0.005 ; n = 5 ) with elevated salinity, but not for the Chinook salmon ( P = 0.174 ; n = 10 ). GST activity of both sturgeon and salmon toward ethacrynic acid (ETHA) did not significantly change with elevated salinity ( P = 0.516 with n = 3 , and P = 0.125 with n = 3 , respectively). Expression of the GST classes, and hepatic glutathione (GSH) concentration, as determined by HPLC, also did not significantly change with increased salinity. In conclusion, overall GST activity in white sturgeon, but not Chinook salmon, is stimulated by elevated water salinity, thus electrophilic chemicals such as pesticides may be more effectively detoxified by sturgeon as they undergo seaward migration.
Two auxin-inducible glutathione S-transferase (GST, EC 2.5.1.18) isozymes from tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum, White Burley) were partially characterized. GST1-1 and GST2-1 are members of a recently identified new type of plant GST isozymes that we will here refer to as type III. Both enzymes were active, with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as a substrate, when expressed in bacteria as fusion proteins. The apparent Km for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was found to be 0.85 [plus or minus] 0.25 mM for GST1-1 and 0.20 [plus or minus] 0.15 mM for GST2-1. The apparent Km for glutathione was similar for both enzymes, 0.40 [plus or minus] 0.15 mM. The in vitro activity of both enzymes could be inhibited by the synthetic auxin 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, with an apparent Ki of 80 [plus or minus] 40 [mu]M for GST1-1 and 200 [plus or minus] 100 [mu]M for GST2-1. The GST1-1 was also inhibited by structurally related substances, such as 2,4-dichlorobenzoic acid, with a roughly similar Ki. The nonchlorinated structures benzoic acid and phenoxyacetic acid did not inhibit. p-Chloroisobutyric acid, or clofibric acid, an auxin-transport inhibitor, was found to be an active inhibitor as well. The strongest inhibitor identified, however, was a phenylacetic acid derivative, ethacrynic acid, which showed an apparent Ki of 5 [plus or minus] 5 [mu]M for both enzymes. This substance is a known inducer as well as a substrate of specific mammalian GSTs. The results presented here indicate that the type III plant GSTs might be involved in the metabolism or transport of chlorinated substances that are structurally related to auxins. The possibility that auxins are endogenous ligands or substrates for GSTs is discussed.
The activities of two detoxification enzymes, glutathione S-transferase (GST) with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrate, and glutathione peroxidase with tertbutyl hydroperoxide as substrate (GSH-Px[TBH]), were measured in the larvae, pupae and adults of honey bees (Apis mellifera ligustica Spinola) originating from two colonies, one untreated acting as a control group and the other treated with flumethrin. The treatment with flumethrin led to increased GST activity in the larval instars, pupae and nurse bees compared with the control group. In particular, the late fifth larval instars (LS) and the pupal instars showed increased GST activities. GSH-Px[TBH] activities were highest in the early larval instars (L1-L2). Treatment with flumethrin resulted in the induction of GSH-Px[TBH] activity in the L4-L5 instars and LS. In the forager bees, the enzyme activity was lower in the group treated with flumethrin than in the control group. This could have been due to unknown extrinsic environmental factors. In general, the average protein contents were lower in the flumethrin-treated group than in the control group. In the LS and pupal stage, and in the adult worker bees, the differences were significantly lower. This inhibition of growth could be due to metabolic costs resulting from exposure to toxicants.
1. Ethacrynic acid (EA), a phenoxyacetic acid diuretic, has similar effects to tienilic acid (TA) on rat liver glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity in vitro, using either 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene or sulphobromophthalein (BSP) as a substrate. EA inhibits the basic rat liver GST, with inhibition being greater with GST containing subunits 3 and 4 than with those containing subunits 1 and 2.2. In vitro inhibitors of GST can inhibit biliary excretion of BSP in a perfused liver.3. A single bolus dose of EA had no effect on BSP excretion from the isolated perfused rat liver, and this is most likely due to the rapid disappearance of EA from the perfusion media. Experiments using perfused rat liver indicated that a sustained high concentration of EA in the perfusion media has an inhibitory effect on the excretion of both unchanged and conjugated BSP.4. A decrease in BSP excretion may not be an indicator of liver damage, but a consequence of GST inhibition.
The stress response enzyme heme oxygenase (HO)-1 is induced in livers of selenium-deficient rodents, probably to compensate for loss of certain selenoproteins. We sought to identify those selenoproteins. Selenium-replete mice with genetic deletion of selenoprotein P or glutathione peroxidase-1 did not have elevated hepatic HO activity, thus ruling out involvement of those selenoproteins in HO-1 induction by selenium deficiency. However, inhibition of thioredoxin reductase (TrxR) by a low dose of gold in the form of aurothioglucose led to induction of hepatic HO activity. Moreover, further induction by phenobarbital was observed. This HO-1 induction pattern is also seen in selenium-deficient mice. In the rat hepatoma cell line H4IIE, inhibition of TrxR by aurothioglucose or by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene led to induction of HO-1. We conclude that loss of TrxR is responsible for the induction of HO-1 by selenium deficiency.
α-Tocopherol inhibits glutathione S-transferase P1-1 (GST P1-1) (R.I.M. van Haaften, C.T.A. Evelo, G.R.M.M. Haenen, A. Bast, Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 280 (2001)). In various cosmetic and dietary products α-tocopherol is added as a tocopherol ester. Therefore we have studied the effect of various tocopherol derivatives on GST P1-1 activity. It was found that GST P1-1 is inhibited, in a concentration dependent manner, by these compounds. Of the compounds tested, the tocopherols were the most potent inhibitors of GST P1-1; the concentration giving 50% inhibition (IC50) is <1 μM. The esterified tocopherols and α-tocopherol quinone also inhibit the GST P1-1 activity at a very low concentration: for most compounds the IC50 was below 10 μM. RRR-α-Tocopherol acetate lowered the Vmax values, but did not affect the Km for either 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene or GSH. This indicates that the GST P1-1 enzyme is non-competitively inhibited by RRR-α-tocopherol acetate. The potential implications of GST P1-1 inhibition by tocopherol and α-tocopherol derivatives are discussed.
Trichinella spiralis glutathione S-transferase (TsGST) was isolated from crude extracts of L1 larvae by glutathione-affinity chromatography. Two closely migrating polypeptides with molecular masses of 28.5 and 28 kDa were identified by electrophoresis. Three isoforms of pI 5.6, 5.8, and 6.0 were detected by isoelectric focusing. Purified TsGST showed a low transferase activity as measured with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene; glutathione peroxidase activity was also demonstrated using cumene hydroperoxide. A rabbit antiserum against TsGST reacted by western blot with crude extracts of Trichinella britovi and Trichinella nativa but not with extracts of Trichinella pseudospiralis, Fasciola hepatica, Schistosoma bovis, Schistosoma mansoni, Dirofilaria immitis, Toxocara canis, or Anisakis sp. TsGST was detected by western blot in extracts of T. spiralis adults, but not in newborn larvae or L1 excretory-secretory products; yet, an antiserum against T. spiralis excretory-secretory products reacted with TsGST. By immunoelectron microscopy, TsGST was found in the granules of the alpha- and beta-stichocytes of L1 larvae, as well as in some granules of the stichocytes of 72-hr adults. Rabbits experimentally infected with T. spiralis developed substantial levels of anti-TsGST antibodies. Moreover, circulating TsGST was detected in serum by a sandwich-enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, isolated from serum by glutathione-affinity chromatography, and characterized as TsGST by western blot.
Abstract Two distinct cDNAs corresponding to GSTA1 and GSTA2 genes encoding glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) from the hepatopancreas of red sea bream, Pagrus major were cloned and sequenced. A comparison of the nucleotide sequences of GSTA1 and GSTA2 revealed 98% identity and their derived amino acid sequences had 96% similarity. Both genes could be classified as α-class GSTs on the basis of their amino acid sequence identity with other species. Genomic DNA cloning showed that both GSTA1 and GSTA2 genes consisted of six exons and five introns. In a comparison of genomic DNAs, the structures of GSTA1 and GSTA2 differed. In addition, Southern-blot analysis indicated that at least two kinds of α-class GSTs existed in the P. major genome. In order to biochemically characterize the recombinant enzymes (pmGSTA1-1 and pmGSTA2-2), both clones were highly expressed in Escherichia coli. The purified pmGSTA1-1 and pmGSTA2-2 exhibited glutathione conjugating activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and glutathione peroxidase activity toward cumene hydroperoxide, while neither pmGSTs show detectable activity toward 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, ethacrynic acid, 4-hydroxynonenal, or p-nitrobenzyl chloride. Despite their high level of amino acid sequence identity, the pmGSTs had quite different enzyme-kinetic parameters.
Prostaglandin D synthetase [(5Z, 13E)-(15S)-9 alpha, 11 alpha-epidioxy-15-hydroxyprosta-5,13-dienoate D-isomerase, EC 5.3.99.2] activity was found in the high-speed (100,000 x g, 1 hr) supernatant of the homogenate of the cochlea of adult rats. The specific activity (14.0 nmol/min per mg of protein) was 6- to 7-fold higher than that in the central nervous system. The enzyme showed full activity with 1 mM glutathione, 1 mM 2-mercaptoethanol, or 0.5 mM dithiothreitol and was almost completely inhibited by 1 mM 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. The Km value for prostaglandin H2 was about 20 microM. These catalytic properties are the same as those of rat brain prostaglandin D synthetase but different from those of rat spleen prostaglandin D synthetase. The activity decreased to less than 20% of its initial level after incubation with excess amounts of a polyclonal or a monoclonal antibody against the brain enzyme, but the activity remained unchanged with a polyclonal antibody against the spleen enzyme, indicating that the brain-type enzyme synthesizes prostaglandin D2 in the cochlea. When cryosections of 5-week-old (adult) rat cochleas were stained by an immunoperoxidase method with antibodies against the brain enzyme, the immunoreactivity was found in inner and outer hair cells, Claudius' cells, Deiters' cells, marginal cells, basal cells, and cells of Reissner's membrane. In 8-day-old rats, the immunoreactivity was found in all of these cell types except hair cells. The immunoreactivity in hair cells was found in only one specimen from 9-day-old animals, and no immunoreactivity was found in spiral ganglion cells at any of the ages examined. These findings indicate that prostaglandin D2 is produced by the brain-type synthetase in the indicated types of cochlear cells.
Glutathione S-transferases (EC: 2.5.1.18, GSTs) are phase II detoxification enzymes that catalyze the conjugation of various electrophilic compounds to glutathione (GSH), thus usually producing less reactive and more water soluble compounds. However, there is evidence that elevated expression of GSTs, especially GSTP1, is involved in the resistance of tumor cells against chemotherapeutic agents. In this study, we synthesized and investigated the inhibitory effects of differently substituted 3-arylcoumarin derivatives on human placental GST, identified as GSTP1-1, using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as a substrate. A known potent inhibitor of GST, ethacrynic acid was used as a positive control. Among the tested compounds, 6,7-dihydroxy substituted coumarin derivatives exhibited the highest inhibitory activity (IC50 = 13.50–20.83 μM). These results suggest that 6,7-dihydroxy-3-arylcoumarins may represent a new promising scaffold to discover potent GST inhibitors.
The mitochondrial thioredoxin system (NADPH, thioredoxin reductase, thioredoxin) is a major redox regulator. Here we have investigated the redox correlation between this system and the mitochondrial enzyme cyclophilin D. The peptidyl prolyl cis-trans isomerase activity of cyclophilin D was stimulated by the thioredoxin system, while it was decreased by cyclosporin A and the thioredoxin reductase inhibitor auranofin. The redox state of cyclophilin D, thioredoxin 1 and 2 and peroxiredoxin 3 was measured in isolated rat heart mitochondria and in tumor cell lines (CEM-R and HeLa) by redox Western blot analysis upon inhibition of thioredoxin reductase with auranofin, arsenic trioxide, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene or after treatment with hydrogen peroxide. A concomitant oxidation of thioredoxin, peroxiredoxin and cyclophilin D was observed, suggesting a redox communication between the thioredoxin system and cyclophilin. This correlation was further confirmed by i) co-immunoprecipitation assay of cyclophilin D with thioredoxin 2 and peroxiredoxin 3, ii) molecular modeling and iii) depleting thioredoxin reductase by siRNA. We conclude that the mitochondrial thioredoxin system controls the redox state of cyclophilin D which, in turn, may act as a regulator of several processes including ROS production and pro-apoptotic factors release.
Abstract The high glutathione S -transferase activity found in a tetrachlorvinphos-resistant strain CH was studied. A substrain CH 3 was bred in which the gene for high transferase activity was introduced into an otherwise susceptible genome. This strain had only part of the activity of the original strain, probably through the removal of enhancing modifying genes. The resistance in strain CH 3 was 56-fold for tetrachlorvinphos, but much lower for paraoxon, methylparaoxon, and parathion. This was in accordance with the much higher activity in vitro of the transferase towards tetrachlorvinphos (ca. 200 nmol per fly per hr at pH 7), more than 100-fold that for the other organosphosphorus (OP) compounds. At least four different transferases could be separated on carboxymethylcellulose columns. The ratio of activity toward tetrachlorvinphos and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was not the same but was higher for the more firmly bound enzymes. This was different from the situation in a malathion-resistant strain G, in which the only active enzyme with low activity toward CDNB and tetrachlorvinphos obtained from the column was not adsorbed. Tetrachlorvinphos was practically exclusively demethylated by the transferases. The enzyme in larvae occurred predominantly in the fat body, with smaller activities in the intestine and cuticle-muscle part. An enzyme hydrolyzing several OP compounds present in some of the CH flies was studied in another substrain CH 4 , where it was present together with the GSH S -transferase. This did not contribute significantly to tetrachlorvinphos resistance, but was significant for resistance to other OP compounds.
The risk factors for women developing breast and endometrium cancers are all associated with a lifetime of estrogen exposure. Estrogen replacement therapy (ERT) in particular has been correlated with a slight increased cancer risk, although the numerous benefits of ERT may negate this harmful side effect. Equilenin and equilin are equine estrogens which make up between 30% and 45% of the most widely prescribed estrogen replacement formulation, Premarin (Wyeth-Ayerst). In this study we have synthesized the catechol metabolites of equilenin [4-hydroxyequilenin (4-OHEN)] and equilin [4-hydroxyequilin (4-OHEQ)] and examined how changing unsaturation in the B ring affects the formation of o-quinone GSH conjugates and the ability of the o-quinones and/or GSH conjugates to inhibit glutathione S-transferase (GST). Interestingly, both 4-OHEN and 4-OHEQ autoxidized to o-quinones without the need of oxidative enzyme catalysis. 4-OHEN-o-quinone reacts with GSH to give two mono-GSH conjugates and one diadduct. The behavior of 4-OHEQ was found to be more complex than 4-OHEN as conjugates resulting from 4-OHEN were detected in addition to the 4-OHEQ GSH adducts. Both 4-OHEN and 4-OHEQ were found to be potent inhibitors of GST-catalyzed conjugation of GSH with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. In contrast, the endogenous catechol estrogens, 4-hydroxyestrone (4-OHE) and 2-hydroxyestrone (2-OHE), were without effect unless tyrosinase was present to convert the catechols to o-quinones. Scavengers of reactive oxygen species and metal chelators had no effect on GST inhibition by catechol estrogens with the exception of the catalase which protected GST activity. Kinetic studies showed that 4-OHEN was a potent irreversible inactivator of GST. Preincubation of the enzyme with 4-OHEN showed a time-dependent increase in inhibitory effect, and gel filtration did not restore GST activity confirming the irreversible nature of the enzyme inactivation. Analysis of the Kitz-Wilson plot gave a dissociation constant of the reversible enzyme-inhibitor complex (Ki = 620 microM) and a rate constant of conversion of the reversible enzyme-inhibitor complex to the irreversibly inhibited enzyme (k2 = 7.3 x 10(-)3 s-1). These data suggest that 4-OHEN is an irreversible inactivator with relatively low affinity for GST; however, once formed the 4-OHEN enzyme complex is rapidly converted to the irreversibly inhibited enzyme. The inhibition mechanism likely involves oxidation of the catechol estrogens to o-quinones and covalent modification and/or oxidation of critical amino acid residues on GST. In addition, hydrogen peroxide generated through redox cycling of the o-quinone and/or semiquinone radical and GSH could cause oxidative damage to GST.
The interaction of geshoidin, diospyrin and ergothioneine, with heterologously expressed human glutathione transferases (GSTs) was investigated in vitro. Diospyrin and geshoidin inhibited the three GST isoforms tested, with IC50 values in the range 0.1-0.5 microm, whereas ergothioneine had no effect on the GSTs. The predominant mode of inhibition was noncompetitive with respect to both glutathione (GSH) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). Diospyrin, however, competitively inhibited A1-1 and M1-1 with respect to GSH and geshoidin displayed mixed inhibition toward A1-1 with respect to GSH. The Ki values for diospyrin with respect to both GSH and CDNB were in the range 0.08-0.6 microM and those for geshoidin were in the range 16-173 microM. These results indicate that diospyrin is a potent inhibitor of heterologously expressed human GSTs A1-1, M1-1 and P1-1. Diospyrin and geshoidin were also found to inactivate P1-1 with diospyrin being a potent inactivator. Given these inhibitory properties, diospyrin may be a potential GST chemomodulator. Ergothioneine inactivated P1-1 only after preincubation and it enhanced ethacrynic acid inactivation of P1-1. Inactivation of P1-1 by ergothioneine may have implications for the antioxidant roles of P1-1 and ergothioneine in vivo.
Alkyl substituted 2,4-dinitrophenylpyridinium chlorides are formed by the nucleophilic substitution of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene with alkyl pyridines. Reaction of pyridyl acid hydrazides or benzoyl hydrazides with the pyridinium chlorides furnish the isolable 2,4-dinitroanilino derivatives which undergo hydrolysis when refluxed in water:p-dioxane mixture (1:4 v/v) to yield the pyridinium ylides. Sodium borohydride reduction of pyridinium ylides in absolute ethanol at 0° for 4 hours result the formation of the title compounds in moderate to excellent yields.
This study deals with the application of the previously developed immobilized and perfused isolated hepatocytes as a cellular system for the study of representative phase I and phase II of biotransformation reactions. To illustrate phase I reactions, aminopyrine (0.17-4.25 mmol/l) and hexobarbital (0.2 mmol/l) were selected. For phase II reactions, glutathione transferase activity was evaluated by using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as a substrate (0.125-2.0 mmol/l). Formaldehyde, that was formed from aminopyrine, increased steadily in the perfusion medium with time. The perfused hepatocytes eliminated hexobarbital at a much higher rate than the hepatocytes in suspension. At several time points the amount of CDNB-glutathione conjugate formed per one million hepatocytes in the bioreactor was almost twice the amount formed by the hepatocytes in suspension. The present data illustrate the successful application of the hepatocyte bioreactor in phase I and phase II of xenobiotic metabolism and indicate that the cells were metabolically more active than the cells in suspension.
Abstract A simple and highly efficient “off-on” fluorescent sensor based on grapheme quantum dots (GQDs) for Cu2+ was developed. In this sensing platform, the fluorescence of GQDs was quenched in the presence of 2,4-dinitrophenylcysteine (DNPC), which is the reaction product of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and l -cysteine, owing to the spectral overlap between the absorption of DNPC and the excitation of GQDs. In the presence of Cu2+, l -cysteine was catalytically oxidized to l -cystine by O2, resulting in the reduction of DNPC. Thus, the fluorescence of GQDs was recovery. Based on this, the fluorescent detection of Cu2+ could be achieved. The proposed sensing strategy offered a selective identification of Cu2+ with a detection limit of 4.5 nM. Additionally, the practical application of this assay for Cu2+ determination in real water samples was also demonstrated.
Glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity was measured in human hepatocytes just after isolation and during culture in various media. Individual variations in enzyme activity, using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate, were observed for freshly isolated human hepatocytes. When the hepatocytes were cultured, GST activity decreased dramatically during the first two days, to be stabilized around 30% of the initial value. Even factors known to favour maintenance of liver functions in vitro, such as nicotinamide and dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO), did not prevent this decline. In contrast to rat hepatocytes, no increase of GST activity was observed following the early decrease.
Monobromobimane (mBBr), besides being a substrate in the presence of glutathione, inactivates rat liver glutathione S-transferase 3-3 at pH 7.5 and 25 degrees C as assayed using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). The rate of inactivation is enhanced about 5-fold by S-methylglutathione. Substrate analogs bromosulfophthalein and 2,4-dinitrophenol decrease the rate of inactivation at least 20-fold. Upon incubation for 60 min with 0.25 mM mBBr and S-methylglutathione, the enzyme loses 91% of its activity toward CDNB and incorporates 2.14 mol of reagent/mol of subunit, whereas incubation under the same conditions but with added protectant 2,4-dinitrophenol yields an enzyme that is catalytically active and contains only 0.89 mol of reagent/mol of subunit. mBBR-modified enzyme is fluorescent, and fluorescence energy transfer occurs between intrinsic tryptophan and covalently bound bimane in modified enzyme. Both Tyr115 and Cys114 are modified, but Tyr115 is the initial reaction target and its modification correlates with loss of activity toward CDNB. The fact that the activity toward mBBr is retained by the enzyme after modification suggests that rat isozyme 3-3 has two binding sites for mBBr.
The Drosophila glutathione S-transferase 1-1 is a dimer of a 209 amino acid subunit, designated DmGST1. DmGST1 is encoded by a member of a multigene family. Sequence analysis of a genomic clone for GST1 revealed that it is encoded by an intronless gene. We designate this gene and its other family members the GST D genes in the glutathione S-transferase gene superfamily. The Drosophila GST D genes are mapped by in situ hybridization to chromosome 3R at 87B of the polytene chromosome, which is flanked by the two clusters of hsp70 genes at 87A7 and 87C1. Cytogenetic data in the literature indicated that a puff occurred in this region under heat shock. We report that the glutathione S-transferase activity in Kco cells as determined by conjugation with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene is elevated slightly to two-fold under heat shock. The implication of this finding is discussed.
Abstract In a previous study, it was shown that 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was less mutagenic in a glutathione (GSH)-deficient derivative of Salmonella typhimurium TA100 (TA100/GSH − ) than in TA100 itself, suggesting that the mutagenicity of the compound is dependent on GSH, possibly mediated by the action of a bacterial nitroreductase(s) on the CDNB-GSH conjugate. In the present study a series of mutagenicity tests were performed to determine how CDNB could be activated after reaction with GSH. In liquid preincubation assays, strains TA100, TA100/GSH − and TA100NR, a nitroreductase-deficient derivative of TA100, were treated with CDNB and its fluoro and bromo analogues (FDNB and BDNB), further with its GSH conjugate (S-GSH-DNB) and possible metabolic products, such as S -cysteine-dinitrobenzene (S-Cys-DNB) and S -methyl-dinitrobenzene (S-methyl DNB), and with 2 more analogues, O -methyl-dinitrobenzene (O-methyl-DNB) and dinitrobenzene (DNB). CDNB, FDNB and BDNB were found to be mutagenic in TA100 and TA100NR, while TA100/GSH − was much less sensitive to the mutagenic action of these halogenated dinitrobenzenes. DNB, O-methyl-DNB, S-methyl-DNB and S-Cys-DNB induced equal numbers of His + revertants in TA100 and TA100/GSH − , but were not mutagenic in TA100NR. S-GSH-DNB showed no mutagenic activity in any of the 3 strains under the present experimental conditions. These results suggest that the halogenated aromatics may react with bacterial DNA and produce pre-mutagenic alterations according to 2 mechanisms: (i) direct attack on the DNA through nucleophilic substitution (S N 2) of the halogen atoms; (ii) activation through GSH conjugation and subsequent nitroreduction of the conjugate or its metabolic products to more reactive intermediates.
We investigated the contribution of reactive oxygen species to the development of sebaceous gland hyperplasia and the characteristics of the glutathione Stransferase/glutathione system in male pattern baldness. Glutathione S-transferase, glutathione, and thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances were detern~ined in sebaceous gland-enriched scalp sldn of men affected by male pattern baldness and were subjected to hair autotransplantation. In comparison with the hairy occipital-donor areas, the following results were obtained in alopecic frontoparietal samples: glutathione S-transferase-specific activity increased 7-fold (p < 0.001); enzyme affinity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene decreased 2-fold (p = 0.009); glu-H uman glutathi one S-transferases (GST) arc a (;lmily of dimeric isoenzymes widely distributed in most tissues that co nju gate e ndogenous glutathione (GSJ-I) with electrophili c compounds (Ketterer e/ al. 1986), thus having an important protective fill1ction. A simple and useful classifi cation divides GST isoen zymes into threc main familics: ex (basi c) , fL (n e utral) , and 1T (a cidi c) (Mannervik cl ai, 1992) , alth ough other intermcdiate forrns also have bee n described. Each isocnzyme shows specific, c haracteristic afrinities for different electrophi li c compounds and prese nts particular isoelectric properties. Moreovcr, GST ac tivity may be altcl'cd in so me patholo gic situations or by thc presen ce of differe nt c lcctrophi li c compollnds (Lafucnte el ai, 1990; Nishihara cl ai, 1991 ; Ccrv ell o el ai, 1994a).
Immunological studies were performed on Ugandan patients with hepatocellular carcinoma to test the hypothesis that the high rate of persistence of hepatitis-associated antigen in these patients is the result of defects in host immune response. The responses to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene sensitization and to a battery of recall skin test antigens were normal, as was the humoral antibody response to tularaemia antigen. Neither hypogammaglobulinaemia nor specific immunoglobulin deficiencies were found. Thus it appears unlikely that generalized defects in host immune responses can account for the high incidence of persistent hepatitis B virus infection found in Ugandan patients with hepatocellular carcinoma.
Human endothelial cells cultured from umbilical vein (HUVEC) were tested for their ability to synthesize nitric oxide (NO), which has been identified as an endothelium-derived relaxing factor. The synthesis of this free radical (detected as citrulline, which is produced stoichiometrically with NO from arginine) in HUVEC is Ca2+ dependent, is increased sevenfold by the calcium ionophore ionomycin, and accounts for most basal and ionomycin-induced guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cGMP) production. Loading of cells with reduced glutathione (GSH), but not with N-(2-mercaptopropionyl)- glycine (MPG), led to increased citrulline production, both basally and after ionomycin stimulation. When the cells were depleted of GSH by incubation with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), citrulline synthesis and cGMP production were inhibited in a concentration-dependent way. CDNB was not cytotoxic and did not inhibit cGMP increase elicited by sodium nitroprusside; cell loading with GSH (but not with MPG) relieved the block of citrulline synthesis. These results suggest that GSH is necessary in HUVEC for NO synthesis rather than for the NO effect on guanylate cyclase.
The glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) of rat olfactory epithelium have been characterized with regard to substrate specificity and subunit composition and compared to those of the liver. The presence of cytosolic GST activity in rat olfactory epithelium was confirmed and, using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate, was found to be approximately one-third that of the liver. Olfactory microsomal GST activity was greater than that of liver microsomes and could be activated by treatment with the sulphydryl agent N-ethylmaleimide. The subunit and isoenzyme profile of GSTs in the olfactory epithelium was investigated using a number of techniques. (1) Olfactory GSTs were characterized using a range of relatively subunit-specific substrates. Activities ranged from 40-90% of those found in liver. Most noticeable was the extremely low olfactory activity with the substrate specific for subunit 1. (2) Immunoblotting with antibodies against specific rat hepatic GSTs confirmed the presence of a number of subunits and the absence of subunit 1. (3) F.p.l.c. chromatofocusing and reverse-phase h.p.l.c. indicated that the cytosolic GST profile of olfactory epithelium is unique and is made up of subunits 2, 3, 4, 7, 8 and 11 with subunits 3 and 4 predominating. There is an absence of isoenzymes containing subunit 1.
trans-Stilbene imine (trans-1,2-diphenylaziridine) is the nitrogen analog of trans-stilbene oxide, a potent inducer of several microsomal and cytosolic xenobiotic-metabolizing enzymes. Although the acute toxicity of cis- and trans-stilbene imines prevents their application at the usual dose for trans-stilbene oxide (400 mg/kg/day), it is apparent that the imines nevertheless potently induce several xenobiotic-metabolizing enzymes in rat liver. The IP administration of trans-stilbene imine resulted in statistically significant increases in the activities of aminopyrine N-demethylase, microsomal epoxide hydrolase, glutathione transferase (toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene and delta 5-androstene-3,17-dione) and UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (toward testosterone). cis-Stilbene imine was less potent in inducing these activities. Although trans-stilbene imine (total dose = 400 mg/kg) was more potent than trans-stilbene oxide (total dose = 1200 mg/kg) in inducing the activities of glutathione transferase (toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene) and UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (toward testosterone), both compounds belong to the class of substances which are more potent inducers of conjugating (phase II) enzymes. Because of their structural similarity with K-region arene imines which are potent mutagens, cis-stilbene imine and trans-stilbene imine were investigated for mutagenicity (reversion of his- strains of Salmonella typhimurium). cis-Stilbene imine and trans-stilbene imine were direct mutagens in the strain TA100. This result, and the finding that acenaphthene 1,2-imine efficiently reverts various strains of Salmonella typhimurium, demonstrates that not only K-region arene imines, but also other aziridines substituted at the two carbons with aromatic moieties, are mutagenic.
The eye colour mutant sepia (se1) is defective in PDA {6-acetyl-2-amino-3,7,8,9-tetrahydro-4H-pyrimido[4,5-b]-[1,4]diazepin-4-one or pyrimidodiazepine} synthase involved in the conversion of 6-PTP (2-amino-4-oxo-6-pyruvoyl-5,6,7,8-tetrahydropteridine; also known as 6-pyruvoyltetrahydropterin) into PDA, a key intermediate in drosopterin biosynthesis. However, the identity of the gene encoding this enzyme, as well as its molecular properties, have not yet been established. Here, we identify and characterize the gene encoding PDA synthase and show that it is the structural gene for sepia. Based on previously reported information [Wiederrecht, Paton and Brown (1984) J. Biol. Chem. 259, 2195-2200; Wiederrecht and Brown (1984) J. Biol. Chem. 259, 14121-14127; Andres (1945) Drosoph. Inf. Serv. 19, 45; Ingham, Pinchin, Howard and Ish-Horowicz (1985) Genetics 111, 463-486; Howard, Ingham and Rushlow (1988) Genes Dev. 2, 1037-1046], we isolated five candidate genes predicted to encode GSTs (glutathione S-transferases) from the presumed sepia locus (region 66D5 on chromosome 3L). All cloned and expressed candidates exhibited relatively high thiol transferase and dehydroascorbate reductase activities and low activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, characteristic of Omega class GSTs, whereas only CG6781 catalysed the synthesis of PDA in vitro. The molecular mass of recombinant CG6781 was estimated to be 28 kDa by SDS/PAGE and 56 kDa by gel filtration, indicating that it is a homodimer under native conditions. Sequencing of the genomic region spanning CG6781 revealed that the se1 allele has a frameshift mutation from 'AAGAA' to 'GTG' at nt 190-194, and that this generates a premature stop codon. Expression of the CG6781 open reading frame in an se1 background rescued the eye colour defect as well as PDA synthase activity and drosopterins content. The extent of rescue was dependent on the dosage of transgenic CG6781. In conclusion, we have discovered a new catalytic activity for an Omega class GST and that CG6781 is the structural gene for sepia which encodes PDA synthase.
Abstract Glutathione S -transferase activity was determined in rat, rabbit, and guinea pig serum using styrene 7,8-oxide (SO) and benzo (a) pyrene 4,5-oxide (4,5-BPO) as substrates. Of the species tested, rat had the highest transferase activity (62.5 and 3.2 nmol/min/ml serum for SO and 4,5-BPO, respectively) and rabbit had the lowest activity. Glutathione S -transferase activity was 60% higher in serum from male rats than in female rats. In rats, serum enzyme specific activities (nmol/min/mg protein) were less than 1% of hepatic enzyme activities with SO, 4,5-BPO, 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB), and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB). Glutathione S -transferase activity was also determined in rat serum during perinatal development. Serum from rats at 18 days of gestation or from 1- and 4-day-old animals had barely detectable transferase activity. Activity increased with age and reached a maximum in 140-day-old animals. The intraperitoneal administration of diethyl maleate (DEM) (0.8 ml/kg) or L-methionine-DL-sulfoximine (MS) (200 mg/kg) to male rats had no effect on serum or hepatic glutathione S -transferase activities 2 or 26 hr after dosing. Treatment with carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) (1 m1/kg) caused an 11-fold increase in serum transferase activity and a 40% decrease in liver specific activities 24 hr after administration.
Cell extracts of the protozoan Tetrahymena thermophila contain high levels of glutathione S-transferase (EC 2.5.1.18). The level of the enzyme varied with the growth cycle, increasing in early stationary phase. It was localized in the cytoplasm. Only one major molecular form of the enzyme was detected by ion-exchange and gel filtration chromatography and isoelectric focusing (pI 7.0), and it was purified to homogeneity. The molecular weight of the enzyme was estimated to be 35,000 from gel filtration and 33,000 from sodium dodecyl sulfate-gel electrophoresis, indicating the enzyme is a monomer. The enzyme was specific for glutathione as the thiol substrate, and was most active with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as the electrophilic substrate. It also exhibited glutathione peroxidase activity. The apparent Km values for glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene were 3.2 and 1.5 mM, respectively. The enzyme catalyzed an S-aryltransfer with pentachloronitrobenzene (Km = 7.2 microM) consistent with the view that this pesticide is metabolized in part via S-conjugation pathways in T. thermophila.
Cultured adult rat hepatocytes were treated daily with 3.2 mM phenobarbital (PB) in order to study its effect on the expression of cytosolic glutathione S-transferase isoenzymes. Glutathione S-transferase (GST) activities, using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene as substrates, were increased when PB was present in the culture medium. After purification and separation of GST on glutathione Sepharose 6 B and reversed-phase HPLC, respectively, it was observed in vitro that PB caused an increase in the relative amounts of subunits 1, 3 and 7 compared to subunits 2 and 4. Using Northern blot technique, elevated levels of GST subunit 1/2 and 7 mRNA were measured, after addition of PB to the cultures.
Abstract The effect of food restriction on the specific activities of the drug metabolizing enzymes (DME) system was studied in Holtzman male rats by comparing DME activities in 90-day-old control rats fed ad libitum (CO), rats fed 40% restricted food (RF) from the gestation period to the day of sacrifice, and recovered rats (rRF) fed 40% restricted food from period of gestation to 45 days of age and then fed ad libitum until the day of sacrifice. In liver, total cytochrome P450 (CYP) of the RF and rRF groups was higher by approximately 50% and 28%, respectively, than in CO rats. Specific activities of individual CYP monooxygenases (MO) such as CYP2B [7-methoxycoumarin demethylase (MOCD)], CYP1A [aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase (AHH) and ethoxyresorufin deethylase (EORD)], and CYP2E [nitrosodimethylamine demethylase (NDMAd)] were 31, 61, 43, and 56% in RF and 16, 36, 26, and 32% in rRF groups, respectively, more than the CO values. Conjugases such as UDP- glucuronosyltransferases with substrates 3-OH benzo(a)pyrene (UGT1) and 4-hydroxybiphenyl (UGT2) and glutathione S-transferase (GST) with substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene were higher by 72, 69, and 33% in RF and 28, 38, and 24% in rRF groups, respectively. MO activities (MOCD and EORD) were significantly higher in lung, kidney, and intestine: MOCD by 82, 48, and 45% in RF and 40, 25, and 22% in rRF, respectively; and EORD by 84, 77, and 67% in RF and 40, 33, and 28% in rRF, respectively. However, activity of conjugases (UGT1 and GST) were significantly lower (approximately 35–45%) in RF and rRF rats (approximately 20–30%) than in the CO group in above mentioned extrahepatic tissues. These studies indicate that undernourishment during the period of gestation, weanling, and growth and development of microsomal enzymes produces a sequela of events on the DME in hepatic and extrahepatic tissues that cannot return to the control values even when fed ad libitum.
SummaryMethaemoglobin-forming capacity of 1,3-diamino-2,4,6-trinitrobenzene (DATNB) was studied in vivo as well as in vitro and compared with those of aniline, phenylenediamine (o- and p-), nitroaniline (o-, m- and p-), nitrobenzene, dinitrobenzene (o-, m- and p-), 1,3,5-trinitrobenzene, chloroaniline (o-, m- and p-), chloronitrobenzene (o-, m- and p-), and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. m-Chloronitrobenzene and two isomers (m- and p-) of dinitrobenzene were the most potent methaemoglobin formers in vivo and it was p-dinitrobenzene when studied in vitro, while the capacity of DATNB was much lower both in vivo and in vitro, being comparable to those of aniline and nitrobenzene. The exposure monitoring by means of the urinalysis for diazo-positive metabolite(s) is applicable to all the compounds studied except DATNB and o-phenylenediamine; conversion of DATNB to the diazo-positive metabolite(s) in urine was very limited, indicating poor metabolism in vivo. Cumulative effects of DATNB was also discussed.
The metabolism of benzo(a)pyrene (BaP) by hepatic or cheek pouch epithelium microsomes obtained from Syrian golden hamsters which had been consuming an ethanol-containing liquid diet for 4 wk and from pair-fed controls was measured. Glutathione S-transferase activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene or (+/-)-r-7,t-8-dihydroxy-t-9,10-epoxy-7,8,9,10-tetrahydrobenzo(a)pyrene as substrates was measured in cytosol obtained from the liver or cheek pouch epithelium of the same animals. Cytosolic hepatic glutathione levels were measured in both ethanol-consuming and control animals. The metabolism of BaP to 4,5-dihydro-4,5-dihydroxybenzo(a)pyrene (BaP-4,5-diol), 7,8-dihydro-7,8-dihydroxybenzo(a)pyrene (BaP-7,8-diol), 9-hydroxybenzo(a)pyrene (9-OH-BaP), and 3-hydroxybenzo(a)pyrene (3-OH-BaP) by hepatic microsomes from ethanol-consuming hamsters was significantly reduced (40-52%) (P less than 0.05) compared to control microsomes. However, a 2-fold increase (P less than 0.05) in the metabolism of BaP to BaP-7,8-diol and 9,10-dihydro-9,10-dihydroxybenzo(a)pyrene was measured with microsomes from the cheek pouch epithelium of ethanol-consuming animals. There was no significant change in the production of BaP-4,5-diol, 9-OH-BaP, or 3-OH-BaP by cheek pouch epithelium microsomes of ethanol-consuming hamsters compared to controls. No difference in glutathione S-transferase activity of hepatic or cheek pouch epithelium cytosol between control and ethanol-consuming hamsters towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene or (+/-)-r-7,t-8-dihydroxy-t-9,10- epoxy-7,8,9,10-tetrahydrobenzo(a)pyrene was observed. Hepatic glutathione content was significantly (P less than 0.05) decreased after 2 wk (23%) and 4 wk (33%) of ethanol consumption. The results suggest a mechanism by which ethanol might enhance BaP tumorigenesis in the hamster cheek pouch.
Abstract We found that glutathione (GSH) is involved in abscisic acid (ABA)-induced stomatal closure. Regulation of ABA signaling by GSH in guard cells was investigated using an Arabidopsis mutant, cad2-1 , that is deficient in the first GSH biosynthesis enzyme, γ-glutamylcysteine synthetase, and a GSH-decreasing chemical, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). Glutathione contents in guard cells decreased along with ABA-induced stomatal closure. Decreasing GSH by both the cad2-1 mutation and CDNB treatment enhanced ABA-induced stomatal closure. Glutathione monoethyl ester (GSHmee) restored the GSH level in cad2-1 guard cells and complemented the stomatal phenotype of the mutant. Depletion of GSH did not significantly increase ABA-induced production of reactive oxygen species in guard cells and GSH did not affect either activation of plasma membrane Ca 2+ -permeable channel currents by ABA or oscillation of the cytosolic free Ca 2+ concentration induced by ABA. These results indicate that GSH negatively modulates a signal component other than ROS production and Ca 2+ oscillation in ABA signal pathway of Arabidopsis guard cells.
Cytosolic glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) from rat kidneys were purified by a combination of glutathione and S-hexylglutathione affinity columns. The isolated GSTs were subjected to reverse-phase HPLC and electrospray MS analysis. The major GST isoenzymes expressed in kidney are subunits 1, 2, 7 and 8. GST 1',3 and 4 are expressed in minor amounts. GST 10 is barely detectable in the male kidney cytosol. The molecular masses of these rat kidney GST subunits were determined by MS. The values obtained for subunits 1', 2, 3, 4, 7, 8 and 10 are identical with those obtained for rat liver GSTs. Rat kidney GST 1 consists of three polypeptides, with molecular masses of 25517, 25372 and 24982 Da. Results from peptide mapping, MS and amino-acid-sequencing analyses indicate that the major components were generated by deleting the C-terminal phenylalanine (24982 Da) and the C-terminal IFKF tetrapeptide (25372 Da) from the GST 1 subunit, respectively. The 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene-conjugating and peroxidase activities of kidney GST 1 are substantially lower than for its counterpart from rat liver. In addition, rat kidney GST 1 has an arginine and a valine residue at positions 151 and 207 respectively. The results are in contradiction with the SWISS-PROT and GenBank rat liver GST 1 cDNA-sequencing data, which give a lysine and a methionine at the corresponding positions. Further analyses indicate that rat liver GST 1 also has a C-terminal phenylalanine deletion, and an arginine and a valine residue at positions 151 and 207 respectively. However, the C-terminal-tetrapeptide-deleted form was not observed for rat liver GST 1.
In the kidney of diabetic rats the elevated GSH concentration was accompanied with the 25% increase of cytosolic Se-dependent glutathione peroxidase (Se-GSHPx) activity. The activity of cytosol glutathione S-transferase (GST) was decreased to 55% of the control with p-nitrobenzyl chloride, and was unchanged with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, and ethacrynic acid. The activity of GST with cumene hydroperoxide (a good substrate for determination the activity of non Se-GSHPx) in diabetic animals stay unchanged too. Insulin treatment of diabetic rats restores the normal glycemia and the body weight, strongly reduces glucosuria and reverses the morphological changes observed in the kidney. The activity of GST and cytosol Se-GSHPx, as well as GSH content, returned to a normal values after insulin treatment, while the activity of non Se-GSHPx was reduced of about 50% in relation to the control values.
We examined the synthesis of leukotrienes (LTs) in human melanoma cells in order to assess the function of LTs in human melanocytes. LTA4 hydrolase, which catalyzes the conversion of LTA4 to LTB4, was detected in the supernatant of cultured human melanoma (MeWo) cells and melanoma cells obtained from patients. Immunoblotting analysis using an antihuman LTA4 hydrolase antibody showed LTA4 hydrolase to be a 70-kDa protein in both MeWo and melanoma cells. Considerable activity of LTC4 synthase, which catalyzes the conversion of LTA4 to LTC4, was detected in the microsomal fraction of both MeWo and melanoma cells. The HPLC profile of the LTC4 synthase reaction products revealed that LTC4 was the main product. LTD4 was not detected under these conditions, indicating that the microsomal fraction of human melanoma cells lacks the membrane-bound gamma-glutamyl transferase that converts LTC4 to LTD4. LTC4 synthase activity was inhibited by the addition of MK-886, and was not altered by treatment with N-ethylmaleimide or 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. These results indicate that the enzyme responsible for the conversion of LTA4 to LTC4 in human melanoma cells is LTC4 synthase rather than a nonspecific or microsomal glutathione-S-transferase. These results also suggest that human melanoma cells can generate LTB4 and LTC4 from LTA4, and that this process is catalyzed by two enzymes: LTA4 hydrolase and LTC4 synthase.
The eye colour mutant sepia (se 1 ) is defective in PDA {6-acetyl-2-amino-3,7,8,9-tetrahydro-4H-pyrimido[4,5-b]- [1, 4] diazepin-4-one or pyrimidodiazepine} synthase involved in the conversion of 6-PTP (2-amino-4-oxo-6-pyruvoyl-5,6,7,8-tetrahydropteridine; also known as 6-pyruvoyltetrahydropterin) into PDA, a key intermediate in drosopterin biosynthesis. However, the identity of the gene encoding this enzyme, as well as its molecular properties, have not yet been established. Here, we identify and characterize the gene encoding PDA synthase and show that it is the structural gene for sepia. Based on previously reported information [Wiederrecht, Paton and Brown (1984) isolated five candidate genes predicted to encode GSTs (glutathione S-transferases) from the presumed sepia locus (region 66D5 on chromosome 3L). All cloned and expressed candidates exhibited relatively high thiol transferase and dehydroascorbate reductase activities and low activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, characteristic of Omega class GSTs, whereas only CG6781 catalysed the synthesis of PDA in vitro. The molecular mass of recombinant CG6781 was estimated to be 28 kDa by SDS/PAGE and 56 kDa by gel filtration, indicating that it is a homodimer under native conditions. Sequencing of the genomic region spanning CG6781 revealed that the se 1 allele has a frameshift mutation from 'AAGAA' to , and that this generates a premature stop codon. Expression of the CG6781 open reading frame in an se 1 background rescued the eye colour defect as well as PDA synthase activity and drosopterins content. The extent of rescue was dependent on the dosage of transgenic CG6781. In conclusion, we have discovered a new catalytic activity for an Omega class GST and that CG6781 is the structural gene for sepia which encodes PDA synthase.
1-Chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and ethacrynic acid were examined for the ability to inhibit unidirectional efflux routes in L1210 cells that extrude both methotrexate and cholate (system I) and methotrexate alone (system II). These electrophiles were selected for study because of their known ability to undergo rapid intracellular conversion to glutathione conjugates. CDNB produced typical inhibitor kinetics and was a moderate inhibitor of both system I (IC50 = 4.8 microM) and system II (IC50 = 7.5 microM) with methotrexate as the substrate. However, a complex response was observed when cholate was employed as an alternative substrate for system I. Cholate efflux was stimulated initially at low levels of CDNB, but then slowed to a net inhibition as CDNB concentrations exceeded 10 microM. The latter characteristics for CDNB were not observed with ethacrynic acid, which produced a comparable inhibition of efflux system I regardless of the substrate employed (IC50 = 4.6 microM). Efflux measurements in an L1210/C7 variant which lacks system I confirmed that CDNB stimulates the activity of a substantial and unique efflux activity for cholate (system III). The inhibition of system I and II by CDNB and ethacrynic acid was not reversed by a wash step but required inhibitor removal and subsequent incubation at 37 degrees C. This slow reversal was attributed to a time-dependent clearance of inhibitory glutathione conjugates. A correlation between efflux systems for anions and anionic glutathione conjugates was demonstrated further by the ability of prostaglandin A1 and indomethacin, two potent inhibitors of methotrexate and cholate efflux, to inhibit the efflux of 2,4-dinitrophenyl-S-glutathione. These results support the hypothesis that efflux systems for methotrexate and cholate in L1210 cells are part of a family of efflux pumps which function in vivo to extrude various anions and anionic glutathione conjugates.
Abstract The elctrochemical characteristics of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as a cathode depolarizer in a cell with a magnesium anode is investigated at different temperatures (+ 28 to −10 °C). The discharge behaviour of Mg/Mg(ClO) 4 ) 2 /CDNB cells shows high cathode potential and efficiency. Resonance effects contribute to the higher degree of electroreduction of the nitro groups in the substituted compounds and this results in the higher efficiency. Cyclic voltammetric (CV) studies of CDNB in neutral battery electrolyte at a glassy-carbon electrode substantiate the observed reduction behaviour.
Mice are resistant to the carcinogenic effects of the mycotoxin aflatoxin B(1) (AFB(1)) because they constitutively express an alpha-class glutathione S-transferase (mGSTA3-3) that has high (approximately 200,000 pmol/min/mg) activity toward aflatoxin B(1)-8, 9-epoxide (AFBO). Rats do not constitutively express a GST with high AFBO-conjugating activity and are sensitive to AFB(1)-induced hepatocarcinogenesis. Constitutively expressed human hepatic alpha-class GSTs (hGSTA1-1 and hGSTA2-2) possess little or no AFBO-detoxifying activity (<2 pmol/min/mg). Recently, we found that the nonhuman primate, Macaca fascicularis (Mf), exhibits significant (approximately 300 pmol/min/mg) constitutive hepatic GST activity towards AFBO. To determine which specific GST isoenzyme(s) is (are) responsible for this activity, MF: GSTs were purified from liver tissue and characterized and, Mf mu-class GST cDNAs were cloned by reverse transcriptase-coupled polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Purification by glutathione agarose (GSHA) affinity chromatography yielded a protein, GSHA-GST, that exhibited relatively high AFBO-conjugating activity (239 pmol/min/mg) compared to other GST-containing peaks. Western blotting and enzymatic activity analyses revealed that GSHA-GST belongs to the mu class. Two distinct mu-class GST cDNAs, mfaGSTM1 (GenBank accession # AF200709) and mfaGSTM2 (GenBank accession # AF200710), were generated by RT-PCR. CDNA-derived amino acid sequence analysis revealed that mfaGSTM1 and mfaGSTM2 share 97% and 96% homology with the human mu-class GSTs hGSTM4 and hGSTM2, respectively. In contrast to recombinant mfaGSTM1-1, which had no detectable AFBO-conjugating activity, mfaGSTM2-2 exhibited this activity at 333 pmol/min/mg. Activity profiles for the stereoisomers exo- and endo-AFBO, and of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene of the purified protein GSHA-GST and recombinant mfaGSTM2-2, suggested that they are two distinct enzymes. Our results indicate that, in contrast to rodents, mu-class GSTs are responsible for the majority of AFBO-conjugating activity in the liver of Macaca fascicularis.
Although cyclophosphamide (CY) is a potent immunosuppressive drug, under the proper conditions, it can potentiate immune responses as well. In past work, we have shown that administration of a commonly used oncostatic dose of CY (1000 mg/sq m) to patients with advanced cancer 3 days before sensitization with the primary antigen, keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH), resulted in augmentation of delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) but not antibody response to that antigen. The present study was performed to test the immunopotentiation of a lower dose of CY (300 mg/sq m); animal studies and studies of human lymphocytes in vitro suggested that the lower dose might be more effective. Eighteen patients with advanced metastatic cancer were alternately assigned to one of two groups. Sixteen days before CY, one group received KLH and the other group received 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB). CY 300 mg/sq m was given as an i.v. bolus on Day 0. Three days after CY, the patients received KLH or DNCB, whichever they had not received initially. Blood was drawn for antibody titer, and skin testing was performed 14 days after administration of KLH or DNCB. In addition, skin tests to microbial recall antigens were made 2 days before and 17 days after CY. Pretreatment with low-dose CY resulted in significant augmentation of DTH to KLH; thus, the median DTH responses were: KLH alone, 10 mm; and KLH after CY, 27 mm (p less than 0.01). CY pretreatment also resulted in augmentation of the antibody response to KLH. The median total antibody titers (log2 of reciprocal of dilution) were as follows: KLH alone, less than 1; and KLH after CY, 3 (p less than 0.01). All nine CY-pretreated subjects but only 4 of 9 controls developed measurable anti-KLH antibody titers. CY pretreatment neither augmented nor suppressed the 48-hr challenge reaction to DNCB. Moreover, CY had no effect on DTH responses to the recall antigens, dermatophytin, Candida, and mumps.
Abstract The effect of genetic obesity and streptozotocin-induced diabetes on cytosolic glutathione S -transferase (GST) activity was investigated in male rat liver with a series of substrates that reflect the activity of individual GSTs. In diabetic rat liver the conjugations with glutathione of three GST substrates-1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), -nitrobenzyl chloride (PNBC) and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB) — were decreased to 47–63% of control; incomplete reversal of this effect was produced by insulin supplementation. The conjugations of trans -4-phenyl-3-buten-2-one (TPBO) and 1,2-epoxy-3-(-nitrophenoxy)propane (ENPP) were unchanged from control rates. Studies conducted in hyperinsulinemic genetically-obese Zucker rats revealed similar, but not identical, changes in GST activities. Of major interest was the observation that TPBO conjugation was markedly decreased to 59% of lean control, whereas this activity was unchanged from control in diabetic liver. These findings suggest that non-uniform effects on GST substrate conjugation occur in experimental diabetes and in genetic obesity The decreased capacity of diabetic liver cytosol to catalyse the conjugation of DCNB and PNBC with glutathione, with no apparent impairment in GST activity toward ENPP and TPBO, is consistent with lowered levels of GST 3-3 However, lower TPBO conjugation in obese rat liver suggests that the cytosolic content of GSTs 3–4 and 4-4 is decreased in these animals. The present study establishes that the reversal of diabetes-related losses of GST activities by insulin is incomplete and is substrate-dependent.
Abstract The formation of dinitrophenylglutathione (DNP-SG) in human colon adenocarcinoma cells was identified and quantified by an HPLC-UV method, following exposure to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) at 10 ° for 40 min. The rate of efflux of DNP-SG at 37 ° likewise, was measured by monitoring the DNP-SG content in the extracellular medium. Among the polyphenols examined for their action on DNP-SG export, butein was the most potent inhibitor with an IC 50 value of 15 μM. The others, in order of decreasing potencies, were quercetin, tannic acid, 2′-hydroxychalcone, 2-hydroxychalcone and morin, all of which have IC 50 values in the micromolar range. These polyphenols did not affect the ATP or the glutathione content of the cells. Mg 2+ -ATPase extracted from the plasma membrane of the cells was activated by DNP-SG in a concentration-dependent manner, and the reaction showed saturation kinetics with K m and V max values of 110 μM and 12.3 nmol/min/mg protein, respectively. However, the six polyphenols mentioned above had negligible effects on the Mg 2+ -ATPase activity, suggesting that this was probably not the target of their inhibitory action. Probenecid, p -trifluoromethoxy-phenylhydrazone (FCCP) and chlorambucil also showed varying degrees of inhibition of the export of DNP-SG.
Summary The effects of some antihepatotoxic agents on the glutathione content and the glutathione transferase activities in rat liver cytosol were studied. Dithiocarb, a potent metabolic inhibitor, had no effect on either parameter. (+)-cyanidanol-3 and dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) were both well able to inhibit the glutathione transferase activity towards the epoxide substrate (1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)propane), but not that towards the aryl substrate (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene). This last activity was elevated after treatment with DMSO and following administration of Diethylmaleate which is a glutathione depleting agent and which exerts variable effects on drug-metabolizing enzymes. Liver injury by CCl 4 results in a gradual decrease in the enzymic activities, which lasts even 72 h after treatment and seems to be a consequence of liver cell regeneration associated with transient loss of cell differentiation. Again, the epoxide transferase activity seems to be more susceptible to factors inducing changes of enzymic activity.
The isoenzyme glutathione S-transferase (GST) I from maize (Zea mays) was cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli, and its catalytic mechanism was investigated by site-directed mutagenesis and dynamic studies. The results showed that the enzyme promotes proton dissociation from the GSH thiol and creates a thiolate anion with high nucleophilic reactivity by lowering the pK(a) of the thiol from 8.7 to 6.2. Steady-state kinetics fit well to a rapid equilibrium, random sequential Bi Bi mechanism, with intrasubunit modulation between the GSH binding site (G-site) and the electrophile binding site (H-site). The rate-limiting step of the reaction is viscosity-dependent, and thermodynamic data suggest that product release is rate-limiting. Five residues of GST I (Ser(11), His(40), Lys(41), Gln(53) and Ser(67)), which are located in the G-site, were individually replaced with alanine and their structural and functional roles in the 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) conjugation reaction were investigated. On the basis of steady-state kinetics, difference spectroscopy and limited proteolysis studies it is concluded that these residues: (1) contribute to the affinity of the G-site for GSH, as they are involved in side-chain interaction with GSH; (2) influence GSH thiol ionization, and thus its reactivity; (3) participate in k(cat) regulation by affecting the rate-limiting step of the reaction; and (4) in the cases of His(40), Lys(41) and Gln(53) play an important role in the structural integrity of, and probably in the flexibility of, the highly mobile short 3(10)-helical segment of alpha-helix 2 (residues 35-46), as shown by limited proteolysis experiments. These structural perturbations are probably transmitted to the H-site through changes in Phe(35) conformation. This accounts for the modulation of K(CDNB)(m) by His(40), Lys(41) and Gln(53), and also for the intrasubunit communication between the G- and H-sites. Computer simulations using CONCOORD were applied to maize GST I monomer and dimer structures, each with bound lactoylglutathione, and the results were analysed by the essential dynamics technique. Differences in dynamics were found between the monomer and the dimer simulations showing the importance of using the whole structure in dynamic analysis. The results obtained confirm that the short 3(10)-helical segment of alpha-helix 2 (residues 35-46) undergoes the most significant structural rearrangements. These rearrangements are discussed in terms of enzyme catalytic mechanism.
A decrease in reduced glutathione (GSH) levels in adult Schistosoma mansoni exposed in vitro to the antischistosomal drug oltipraz (OPZ) (20-60 nM) was accompanied by a significant increase in oxidized glutathione (GSSG) levels. The total glutathione (GSH + GSSG) levels also diminished in drug-treated parasites. The activities of the parasite glutathione peroxidase (GPO), utilizing cumene hydroperoxide as a substrate, and glutathione S-transferase (GST), measured 18 hr after in vitro incubation with the drug, were elevated significantly, but there were no significant alterations in the activities of the GPO, utilizing H2O2, or glutathione reductase (GR). Drug-treated worms showed increased lipid peroxidation. In vivo, the proportion of the worms recovered from infected mice given OPZ (100 mg/kg body wt) gradually declined with time, to about 30% of that recovered from infected untreated control mice by day 14 after drug administration, and consisted predominantly of male worms. Accompanying this significant decline in the proportion of worms recovered were significant decreases in the activities of the enzymes GR and GST in drug-exposed worms. On the other hand, a slight initial increase in the GPO activity with cumene hydroperoxide was followed by a return to control values, and the GPO activity with H2O2 was decreased only slightly with time. Interestingly, the 4-hydroxyalk-2-enal aldehydes, known products of lipid peroxidation, inhibited the GST reaction with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). The OPZ-induced changes in S. mansoni could increase parasite susceptibility to oxidative attack by host phagocytes, and are probably linked with the antischistosomal action of the drug in vivo.
Four immunologically distinct subunits were characterized in glutathione (GSH) S-transferases of human liver. Five cationic enzymes (pI 8.9, 8.5, 8.3, 8.2 and 8.0) have an apparently similar subunit composition, and are dimers of 26 500-Mr (A) and 24 500-Mr (B) subunits. A neutral enzyme, pI 6.8, is a dimer of B-type subunits. One of the anionic enzymes, pI 5.5, is also a dimer of 26 500-Mr subunits. However, the 26 500-Mr subunits of this anionic enzyme form are immunologically distinct from the A subunits of the cationic enzymes, and have been designated as A'. Immunoabsorption studies with the neutral enzyme, BB, and the antibodies raised against the cationic enzymes (AB) indicate that A and B subunits are immunologically distinct. Hybridization in vitro of the A and B subunits of the cationic enzymes (AB) results in the expected binary combinations of AA, AB and BB. Studies with the hybridized enzyme forms indicate that only the A subunits express GSH peroxidase activity. A' subunits have maximum affinity for p-nitrobenzyl chloride and p-nitrophenyl acetate, and the B subunits have highest activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. The other anionic form, pI 4.5, present in liver is a heterodimer of 22 500-Mr (C) and B subunits. The C subunits of this enzyme are probably the same as the 22 500-Mr subunits present in human lung and placental GSH transferases. The distinct immunological nature of B and C subunits was also demonstrated by immunoaffinity and subunit-hybridization studies. The results of two-dimensional polyacrylamide-gel-electrophoretic analyses indicate that in human liver GSH transferases, three charge isomers of Mr 26 500 (A type), two charge isomers of Mr 24 500 (B type) and two charge isomers of Mr 22 500 (C type) subunits are present.
The acute phase response (APR) has been shown to alter expression and activity of biotransformation enzymes, such as the phase I cytochromes P450 and phase II glutathione S-transferases (GSTs). The cytochromes P450 and GSTs are expressed abundantly and colocalized to non-neuronal cells of the olfactory mucosa. Previous studies indicate that olfactory cytochromes P450 expression and activity is altered during periods of localized inflammation and infection. Little is understood, however, about the influence of the APR on olfactory GST enzymes. This study investigated effects of the APR on olfactory GST isozymes expression and activity in mouse olfactory mucosa after 24-hr treatment with the acute phase inducer, polyinosinic: polycytidylic acid (polyIC). Western blot analysis using antibodies directed against specific GST isoforms α (A1-1), μ (M1-1), and π (P1-1) demonstrated that their expression was unaltered by polyIC treatment. In contrast, olfactory P450 2E1 expression was significantly decreased. Enzymatic activity of the olfactory GSTs toward the general substrate, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was unchanged during the APR. Analysis of olfactory glutathione content during the APR showed that it was also unaffected by polyIC. The insensitivity of these olfactory GST isoforms during the APR may play a significant role toward limiting the impact of infection and inflammation on the olfactory system. © 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
Leukotriene C4 (LTC4) synthase, which conjugates LTA4 and LTA4-methyl ester (LTA4-me) with glutathione (GSH) to form LTC4 and LTC4-me, respectively, has been solubilized from the microsomes of guinea pig lung and purified 91-fold in four steps to a specific activity of 692 nmol/10 min per mg protein using LTA4-me as substrate. LTC4 synthase of guinea pig lung was separated from microsomal GSH S-transferase by Sepharose CL-4B chromatography and further purified by DEAE-Sephacel chromatography, agarose-butylamine chromatography, and DEAE-3SW fast-protein liquid chromatography. It was also differentiated from the microsomal GSH S-transferase, which utilized 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as a substrate, by its heat lability and relative resistance to inhibition by S-hexyl-GSH. The Km value of guinea pig lung LTC4 synthase for LTA4 was 3 microM and the Vmax was 108 nmol/3 min per microgram; the Km values for LTA3 and LTA5 were similar, and the Vmax values were about one-half those obtained with LTA4. The conversion of LTA4-me to LTC4-me was competitively inhibited by LTA3, LTA4, and LTA5, with respective Ki values of 1.5, 3.3, and 2.8 microM, suggesting that these substrates were recognized by a common active site. IC50 values for the inhibition of the conjugation of 20 microM LTA4-me with 5 mM GSH were 2.1 microM and 0.3 microM for LTC4 and LTC3, respectively. In contrast, LTD4 was substantially less inhibitory (IC50 greater than 40 microM), and LTE4 and LTB4 had no effect on the enzyme, indicating that the mixed type product inhibition observed was specific for sulfidopeptide leukotrienes bearing the GSH moiety.
Glutathione S-transferases belong to a large ancient gene family and are thought to be one of the effective detoxification systems. To elucidate the function of the gene in poplar, a tau class gst gene (PatgGSTU51) was cloned from poplar cell suspension cDNA library and its expression was examined. The gene was not expressed in normal conditions, but significantly induced by toxic heavy metals like cadmium and inorganic mercury. However, the highest expression was observed when treated with its synthetic substrate, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). Several transgenic poplar lines harboring a chimeric p35S-PatgGSTU51 were developed to understand its function in plant defense. Real-time quantitative PCR, western blot and cellular GST activities consistently showed the transgene was highly expressed in the transgenic lines. The transgenic lines showed increased tolerance to methyl viologen as well as to inorganic mercury but not to cadmium. Furthermore, they did not show any significant tolerance against CDNB, the electrophilic substrate of GST isozymes. Thus, the results suggest that, although PatgGSTU51 is induced by a number of stress agents, it confers a selective tolerance to the toxicity of heavy metal mercury over those of other stress agents and also to oxidation stress caused by MV. Tolerance to CDNB that induces the gene to high level may require such an extra supplemental gene action as vacuolar sequestration.
Rats were exposed to black tea (2.5% w/v) as their sole drinking liquid for either 1 day (short-term) or 1 month (long-term), while controls received water. After exposure, all animals received a single oral dose of 6-aminochrysene and urine was collected for 72 h. Urinary mutagenicity was determined in the Ames test using an activation system comprising hepatic cytosol from Aroclor 1254-induced rats and utilizing the Salmonella typhimurium O-acetylase overexpressing bacterial strain YG1024. Both tea treatments suppressed the urinary excretion of indirect acting mutagens; no direct acting mutagenic activity was detectable. Furthermore, both tea treatments induced hepatic CYP1A2 activity, as exemplified by the O-demethylation of methoxyresorufin, when compared with the corresponding controls; similarly, an increase in CYP1A2 apoprotein levels was observed. The O-depentylation of pentoxyresorufin was also induced by the long-term tea treatment only, but the effect was less pronounced. No significant changes were seen in glutathione S-transferase and glucuronosyl transferase activities. When rats were exposed to caffeine at a dose level corresponding to that in black tea, a marked decrease was observed in the urinary excretion of indirect acting mutagens following a single oral dose of 6-aminochrysene. It is concluded that even after short-term exposure, black tea enhances the metabolism of 6-aminochrysene and that this is probably related to the upregulation of hepatic CYP1A2 by the caffeine present in black tea. Finally, 6-aminochrysene was a potent inducer of CYP1A1, as assessed by the O-deethylation of ethoxyresorufin and immunoblot analysis. The same treatment modestly increased glutathione S-transferase activity when assessed using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as the accepting substrate.
Three diverse insects, a polyphagous "leaf chewer" (Atractomorpha lata), a polyphagous "sap feeder" (Myzus persicae), and a "restrictive feeder" (Plutella xylostella) responded differently when fed with eight cultivars of sesame either as whole leaf or via artificial diet. There was limited or no correlation in induction between detoxifying enzyme substrates (esterase, glutathione s-transferase [GST], and mixed function oxidase [MFO] activities) when activity toward various substrates α-naphthyl acetate, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, and p-nitroanisole (pNA), were compared although they were generally elevated in the tissues from insects on sesame than a reference fed with radish seedlings. In A. lata, esterase activity for the cultivar 11Pusan and 45Laos were three-fold higher compared to the reference, while other cultivars, 24Nanbu-twasaki and 56S-radiatum were--two- to three-fold lower than the reference. In M. persicae, the esterase activity was as much as five-fold higher than the reference in one test cultivar. GST activities of the sesame cultivars were generally higher (≈two-fold) than the reference in all insects and at variable ratios among the cultivars. The MFO activity toward pNA in grasshoppers feeding on these sesame cultivars was either highly expressed or nonexistent. These results indicate that although the cultivars belong to the same species, they might have undergone changes in secondary phytochemicals in response to varying biogeographical distribution. Each insect species is suspected to target a specific plant chemical burden that it tries to overcome in each cultivar through enzyme activation.
In this study, a test for the immunity control effect by ethanolic extract of Eurya emarginata (EE-70E) on NC/Nga mice as the models for atopic dermatitis was conducted with the following results. Atopic dermatitis in NC/Nga mice was induced by repeated application of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB) for 5 weeks. Mice were orally administered EE-70E or terfenadine, positive control for 3 weeks. Scratching behavior, clinical skin severity, and the levels of IL-4, L-13, IL-17, total serum IgG1, and total serum IgE were measured. The oral administration with EE-70E doses of 200 or 400 mg/kg significantly decreased scratching behavior scores and clinical skin severity score in a dose-dependent manner (p<0.05). The administration of EE-70E at 400 mg/kg significantly decreased cytokines within the blood serum, that is, IL-4, L-13, and IL-17 compared to the control group (p<0.05). The level of blood histamine was statistically significantly decreased. Administration of EE-70E at 400 mg/kg significantly decreased the levels of total serum IgE (p<0.05). The above results indicated that EE-70E was effective in improving the symptoms of atopic dermatitis through various immunity control mechanisms.
Abstract Catfish are hardy in nature and it is not known whether the presence of efficient detoxication enzymes is partly responsible for this trait. To investigate this, we have assessed induction of glutathione transferase (GST) in 10-week-old juvenile catfish ( Clarias gariepinus ) exposed to graded concentrations of lindane, an organochlorine insecticide, and characterised the purified enzyme from groups having the highest and statistically significant induction. Some of the unique properties observed for the purified enzyme are a high K m (1.72±0.21 mM) for the electrophilic model substrate, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and a very low catalytic rate ( V max =0.130±0.010 units/mg protein). The k cat / K m being 55.4±0.2 M −1 s −1 . The enzyme is present in high concentration in the organism, the main isoform accounts for about 5.6% of the total soluble protein, probably to compensate for the observed kinetic imperfection. Since these properties are generally not known for a detoxication enzyme, we suggest that they may form part of the organism׳s own adaptation to its polluted environment.
Erwinia carotovora, a widespread plant pathogen that causes soft rot disease in many plants, is considered a major threat in agriculture. Bacterial glutathione transferases (GSTs) play important roles in a variety of metabolic pathways and processes, such as the biodegradation of xenobiotics, protection against abiotic stress, and resistance against antimicrobial drugs. The GST family of canonical soluble enzymes from Erwinia carotovora subsp. atroseptica strain SCRI1043 (EcaGSTs) was investigated. Genome analysis showed the presence of six putative canonical cytoplasmic EcaGSTs, which were revealed by phylogenetic analysis to belong to the well-characterized GST classes beta, nu, phi, and zeta. The analysis also revealed the presence of two isoenzymes that were phylogenetically close to the omega class of GSTs, but formed a distinct class. The EcaGSTs were cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli, and their catalytic activity toward different electrophilic substrates was elucidated. The EcaGSTs catalyzed different types of reactions, although all enzymes were particularly active in reactions involving electrophile substitution. Gene and protein expression profiling conducted under normal culture conditions as well as in the presence of the herbicide alachlor and the xenobiotic 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) showed that the isoenzyme EcaGST1, belonging to the omega-like class, was specifically induced at both the protein and mRNA levels. EcaGST1 presumably participates in counteracting the xenobiotic toxicity and/or abiotic stress conditions, and may therefore represent a novel molecular target in the development of new chemical treatments to control soft rot diseases.
The genome of Arabidopsis thaliana encodes 54 functional glutathione transferases (GSTs), classified in seven clades. Although plant GSTs have been implicated in the detoxification of xenobiotics, such as herbicides, extensive redundancy within this large gene family impedes a functional analysis in planta. In this study, a GST-deficient yeast strain was established as a system for analyzing plant GSTs that allows screening for GST substrates and identifying substrate preferences within the plant GST family. To this end, five yeast genes encoding GSTs and GST-related proteins were simultaneously disrupted. The resulting yeast quintuple mutant showed a strongly reduced conjugation of the GST substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and 4-chloro-7-nitro-2,1,3-benzoxadiazole (NBD-Cl). Consistently, the quintuple mutant was hypersensitive to CDNB, and this phenotype was complemented by the inducible expression of Arabidopsis GSTs. The conjugating activity of the plant GSTs was assessed by in vitro enzymatic assays and via analysis of exposed yeast cells. The formation of glutathione adducts with dinitrobenzene was unequivocally verified by stable isotope labeling and subsequent accurate ultrahigh-resolution mass spectrometry (ICR-FTMS). Analysis of Arabidopsis GSTs encompassing six clades and 42 members demonstrated functional expression in yeast by using CDNB and NBD-Cl as model substrates. Subsequently, the established yeast system was explored for its potential to screen the Arabidopsis GST family for conjugation of the fungicide anilazine. Thirty Arabidopsis GSTs were identified that conferred increased levels of glutathionylated anilazine. Efficient anilazine conjugation was observed in the presence of the phi, tau, and theta clade GSTs including AtGSTF2, AtGSTF4, AtGSTF6, AtGSTF8, AtGSTF10, and AtGSTT2, none of which had previously been known to contribute to fungicide detoxification. ICR-FTMS analysis of yeast extracts allowed the simultaneous detection and semiquantification of anilazine conjugates as well as catabolites.
Chemical reagents and solvents were purchased from Aldrich Chemical Co. (Milwaukee, WI). Hemin, immunochemicals, ethyl ester glutathione (ethyl ester GSH), GSH, diethylmaleate (DEM), 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT), 5,5Ј-dithiobis-2-nitrobenzoic acid (DTNB) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) were obtained from Sigma Chemical Co. (St. Louis, MO). [
Mice are resistant to the carcinogenic effects of the mycotoxin aflatoxin B 1 (AFB 1 ) because they constitutively express an alphaclass glutathione S-transferase (mGSTA3-3) that has high (ϳ200,000 pmol/min/mg) activity toward aflatoxin B 1 -8,9-epoxide (AFBO). Rats do not constitutively express a GST with high AFBO-conjugating activity and are sensitive to AFB 1 -induced hepatocarcinogenesis. Constitutively expressed human hepatic alpha-class GSTs (hGSTA1-1 and hGSTA2-2) possess little or no AFBO-detoxifying activity (<2 pmol/min/mg). Recently, we found that the nonhuman primate, Macaca fascicularis (Mf), exhibits significant (ϳ300 pmol/min/mg) constitutive hepatic GST activity towards AFBO. To determine which specific GST isoenzyme(s) is (are) responsible for this activity, Mf GSTs were purified from liver tissue and characterized and, Mf mu-class GST cDNAs were cloned by reverse transcriptase-coupled polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Purification by glutathione agarose (GSHA) affinity chromatography yielded a protein, GSHA-GST, that exhibited relatively high AFBO-conjugating activity (239 pmol/min/mg) compared to other GST-containing peaks. Western blotting and enzymatic activity analyses revealed that GSHA-GST belongs to the mu class. Two distinct mu-class GST cDNAs, mfaGSTM1 (GenBank accession # AF200709) and mfaGSTM2 (GenBank accession # AF200710), were generated by RT-PCR. CDNA-derived amino acid sequence analysis revealed that mfaGSTM1 and mfaGSTM2 share 97% and 96% homology with the human muclass GSTs hGSTM4 and hGSTM2, respectively. In contrast to recombinant mfaGSTM1-1, which had no detectable AFBO-conjugating activity, mfaGSTM2-2 exhibited this activity at 333 pmol/ min/mg. Activity profiles for the stereoisomers exo-and endo-AFBO, and of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene of the purified protein GSHA-GST and recombinant mfaGSTM2-2, suggested that they are two distinct enzymes. Our results indicate that, in contrast to rodents, mu-class GSTs are responsible for the majority of AFBOconjugating activity in the liver of Macaca fascicularis.
Four immunologically distinct subunits were characterized in glutathione (GSH) S-transferases of human liver. Five cationic enzymes (pl 8.9, 8.5, 8.3, 8.2 and 8.0) have an apparently similar subunit composition, and are dimers of 26 500-Mr (A) and 24 500-Mr (B) subunits. A neutral enzyme, pl 6.8, is a dimer of B-type subunits. One of the anionic enzymes, pl 5.5, is also a dimer of 26 500-Mr subunits. However, the 26 500-Mr subunits of this anionic enzyme form are immunologically distinct from the A subunits of the cationic enzymes, and have been designated as A'. Immunoabsorption studies with the neutral enzyme, BB, and the antibodies raised against the cationic enzymes (AB) indicate that A and B subunits are immunologically distinct. Hybridization in vitro of the A and B subunits of the cationic enzymes (AB) results in the expected binary combinations of AA, AB and BB. Studies with the hybridized enzyme forms indicate that only the A subunits express GSH peroxidase activity. A' subunits have maximum affinity for p-nitrobenzyl chloride and p-nitrophenyl acetate, and the B subunits have highest activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. The other anionic form, pI 4.5, present in liver is a heterodimer of 22 500-Mr (C) and B subunits. The C subunits of this enzyme are probably the same as the 22 500-Mr subunits present in human lung and placental GSH transferases. The distinct immunological nature of B and C subunits was also demonstrated by immunoaffinity and subunit-hybridization studies. The results of two-dimensional polyacrylamide-gelelectrophoretic analyses indicate that in human liver GSH transferases, three charge isomers of Mr 26500 (A type), two charge isomers of Mr 24500 (B type) and two charge isomers of Mr 22 500 (C type) subunits are present.
Leukotriene C4 (LTC4) synthase, which conjugates LTA4 and LTA4-methyl ester (LTA4-me) with glutathione (GSH) to form LTC4 and LTC4-me, respectively, has been solubilized from the microsomes of guinea pig lung and purified 91-fold in four steps to a specific activity of 692 nmol/10 min per mg protein using LTA4-me as substrate. LTC4 synthase of guinea pig lung was separated from microsomal GSH S-transferase by Sepharose CI-4B chromatography and further purified by DEAESephacel chromatography, agarose-butylamine chromatography, and DEAE-3SW fast-protein liquid chromatography. It was also differentiated from the microsomal GSH S-transferase, which utilized 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as a substrate, by its heat lability and relative resistance to inhibition by Shexyl-GSH. The K. value of guinea pig lung LTC4 synthase for LTA. was 3 ,uM and the V., was 108 nmol/3 min per gg, the K, values for LTA3 and LTA5 were similar, and the V., values were about one-half those obtained with LTA4. The conversion of LTA4-me to LTC4-me was competitively inhibited by LTA3, LTA4, and LTA5, with respective K, values of 1.5, 3.3, and 2.8 MM, suggesting that these substrates were recognized by a common active site. IC50 values for the inhibition of the conjugation of 20 ,uM LTA4-me with 5 mM GSH were 2.1 ,uM and 0.3 MuM for LTC4 and LTC3, respectively. In contrast, LTD4 was substantially less inhibitory (IC5o > 40 MuM), and LTE4 and LTB4 had no effect on the enzyme, indicating that the mixed type product inhibition observed was specific for sulfidopeptide leukotrienes bearing the GSH moiety.
A glutathione S-transferase (GST) with a potential dehalogenation function against various organochlorine substrates was identified from a polychlorobiphenyl (PCB)-degrading organism, Acidovorax sp. KKS102. A homolog of the gene BphK (biphenyl upper pathway K), named BphK-KKS, was cloned, purified and biochemically characterized. Bioinformatic analysis indicated several conserved amino acids that participated in the catalytic activity of the enzyme, and site-directed mutagenesis of these conserved amino acids revealed their importance in the enzyme's catalytic activity. The wild-type and mutant (C10F, K107T and A180P) recombinant proteins displayed wider substrate specificity. The wild-type recombinant GST reacted towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), ethacrynic acid, hydrogen peroxide and cumene hydroperoxide. The mutated recombinant proteins, however, showed significant variation in specific activities towards the substrates. A combination of a molecular docking study and a chloride ion detection assay showed potential interaction with and a dechlorination function against 2-, 3-and 4-chlorobenzoates (metabolites generated during PCB biodegradation) in addition to some organochlorine pesticides (dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane, endosulfan and permethrin). It was demonstrated that the behavior of the dechlorinating activities varied among the wild-type and mutant recombinant proteins. Kinetic studies (using CDNB and glutathione) showed that the kinetic parameters K m , V max , K cat and K m /K cat were all affected by the mutations. While C10F and A180P mutants displayed an increase in GST activity and the dechlorination function of the enzyme, the K107T mutant displayed variable results, suggesting a functional role of Lys107 in determining substrate specificity of the enzyme. These results demonstrated that the enzyme should be valuable in the bioremediation of metabolites generated during PCB biodegradation.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) constitute a diverse class of enzymes that detoxify different classes of substrates by catalyzing their conjugation with the tripeptide reduced glutathione (GSH) thereby helping to increase their solubility and subsequent removal from the body [1, 2] . GSTs are found in almost all living organisms, including plants, animals, fungi and bacteria [3] . They are found in the cytosol, mitochondria Abbreviations BphK, biphenyl upper pathway K; CDNB, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene; DDT, dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane; GSH, reduced glutathione; GST, glutathione S-transferase; PCB, polychlorobiphenyl; RMSD, root mean square deviation.
To verify a possible involvement of glutathione transferase pi in intracellular transport of hemin the interaction between the protein and the ligand was studied using three different spectroscopic techniques: intrinsic fluorescence quenching, kinetic measurements in the visible range and circular dichroism. From fluorescence experiments two binding sites for the hemin were found with Kd values of about 20 nM (high-affinity site) and 400 nM (low-affinity site). In the presence of glutathione or S-methylglutathione the high-affinity site further increased its affinity, while the second site reduced its affinity for hemin. The effect of hemin on the catalytic activity of the glutathione transferase pi was studied using two different glutathione concentrations. With 1 mM glutathione a non-linear Dixon plot was obtained, while decreased hemin inhibition and a linear pattern was observed with 2.5 mM glutathione. The Ki calculated was 4 microM and the inhibition appeared to be non-competitive with respect to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. CD spectra of the bilirubin-glutathione-transferase complex (350-600 nm region) at different hemin concentrations showed a common binding site for bilirubin and hemin. In conclusion, the presence of a high-affinity site for the hemin and the fact that glutathione at physiological concentrations increased the affinity of this site, suggest the involvement of glutathione transferase pi in the hemin transport.
Summary Thioredoxins are small, highly conserved oxidoreductases that are required to maintain the redox homeostasis of the cell. They have been best characterized for their role as antioxidants in protection against reactive oxygen species. We show here that thioredoxins ( TRX1 , TRX2 ) and thioredoxin reductase ( TRR1 ) are also required for protection against a reductive stress induced by exposure to dithiothreitol (DTT). This sensitivity to reducing conditions is not a general property of mutants affected in redox control, as mutants lacking components of the glutathione/ glutaredoxin system are unaffected. Furthermore, TRX2 gene expression is induced in response to DTT treatment, indicating that thioredoxins form part of the cellular response to a reductive challenge. Our data indicate that the sensitivity of thioredoxin mutants to reducing stress appears to be a consequence of elevated glutathione levels, which is present predominantly in the reduced form (GSH). The elevated GSH levels also result in a constitutively high unfolded protein response (UPR), indicative of an accumulation of unfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). However, there does not appear to be a general defect in ER function in thioredoxin mutants, as oxidative protein folding of the model protein carboxypeptidase Y occurs with similar kinetics to the wild-type strain, and trx1 trx2 mutants are unaffected in sensitivity to the glycosylation inhibitor tunicamycin. Furthermore, trr1 mutants are resistant to tunicamycin, consistent with their high UPR. The high UPR seen in trr1 mutants can be abrogated by the GSH-specific reagent 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. In summary, thioredoxins are required to maintain redox homeostasis in response to both oxidative and reductive stress conditions.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) catalyze the conjugation of glutathione to hydrophobic compounds, contributing to the metabolism of toxic chemicals. In this study, we show that two naturally occurring tau GSTs (GSTUs) exhibit distinctive kinetic parameters towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), although they differ only in three amino acids (Arg89, Glu117 and Ile172 in GSTU1 are replaced by Pro89, Lys117 and Val172 in GSTU2). In order to understand the effects of the single mismatched residues, several mutant GSTs were generated through site-directed mutagenesis. The analysis of the kinetic parameters of the mutants led to the conclusion that Glu117 provides a critical contribution to the maintenance of a high-affinity CDNB-binding site. However, the substitution E117K gives rise to mutants showing increased k(cat) values for CDNB, suggesting that Lys117 might positively influence the formation of the transition state during catalysis. No changes in the K(m) values towards glutathione were found between the naturally occurring GSTs and mutants, except for the mutant caused by the substitution R89P in GSTU1, which showed a sharp increase in K(m). Moreover, the analysis of enzyme reactivation after denaturation showed that this R89P substitution leads to a two-fold enhancement of the refolded enzyme yield, suggesting that the insertion of proline might induce critical structural modifications. In contrast, the substitution P89R in GSTU2 does not modify the reactivation yield and does not impair the affinity of the mutant for glutathione, suggesting that all three residues investigated in this work are fundamental in the creation of enzymes characterized by unique biochemical properties.
Abstract Rat liver microsomes exhibit glutathione S-transferase activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as the second substrate. This activity can be stimulated 8-fold by treatment of the microsomes with N-ethylmaleimide and 4-fold with iodoacetamide. The corresponding glutathione S-transferase activity of the supernatant fraction is not affected by such treatment. These findings suggest that rat liver microsomes contain glutathione S-transferase distinct from those found in the cytoplasmic and that the microsomal transferase can be activated by modification of microsomal sulfhydryl group(s).
Abstract Larvae of the obliquebanded leafroller,Choristoneura rosaceanaL. (Lepidoptera: Tortricidae), were fed artificial diet containing various doses of neem oil. After 6 days of feeding, larvae (6th instar) were assayed for activities of midgut esterases and glutathione transferases. Midgut protein contents were also determined, as were larval fresh and dry weights. Some larvae were allowed to pupate and emerge as adults in order to determine enzyme activities, protein contents, and weights (fresh and dry) of whole adult moths. Neem treatment did not affect the fresh weight of male larvae, although the highest neem dose (0.027%, v/v) significantly reduced the fresh weight of females compared with controls. Dry weights followed the same pattern: no differences in males and reduced dry weight at the highest treatment dose in females. For adult moths, no differences in fresh weight were observed for either males or females. Dry weights were reduced at 0.008% neem in females and 0.010% neem in males. Protein contents were reduced in a dose-dependent manner in male and female larvae and in adult female moths. For glutathione transferase activities, no significant differences were observed with either 3,4-dichloronitrobenzene or 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as the test substrate. Although there were some significant differences in rates of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene conjugation in adult females, these differences were not dose-dependent. Esterase activities, measured with α-naphthyl acetate and α-naphthyl butyrate as substrates, were significantly reduced in adult moths (females and males) at all neem treatment doses. Larval esterase activities were similarly reduced at the 0.027% dose. These results indicate that neem oil affects esterase activities but not glutathione transferase activities, and that these effects are most pronounced in adult moths that were exposed to neem as larvae. Neem may be useful in the management of insect populations where insecticide resistance has developed as a result of elevated esterase activity.
Pyloric caeca of trout contain 1.9 mmol GSH/kg tissue. Cytosolic glutathione S-transferase activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate is 0.06 mmol/min/g protein. Cholate (3.3 mM) inhibits cytosolic transferase activity by 55% at pH 6.6 and by 4% at pH 7.4. The transferases do not bind 8-anilino-1-naphthalene sulphonate at pH 7.4. The cytosolic transferases are inactivated progressively by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 50% of their activity being lost in 5.0 min. A minority of the activity does not bind to a glutathione-affinity matrix. At pH 6.6 its apparent Michaelis constants for GSH and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene are 0.88 and 9.1 mM respectively. The rest of the activity is eluted from the affinity matrix as a single peak. Its apparent Michaelis constants for GSH and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene are 0.33 and 2.9 mM respectively. Its subunit Mr is 22.4 kDa.
Abstract This study focused on glutathione S -transferase (GST), one of the detoxification enzymes, from the silkworm, Bombyx mori (GSTT1). A cDNA encoding a putative GST was amplified by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction and sequenced. The deduced amino acid sequence revealed 59%, 57% and 56% identities to theta-class GSTs of Musca domestica , Anopheles gambiae and Drosophila melanogaster , respectively. GSTT1 was also estimated to be close to those GSTs in a phylogenetic tree. Recombinant GST (rGSTT1) was functionally overexpressed in Escherichia coli in a soluble form, purified to homogeneity, and characterized. The pH-optimum of rGSTT1 was broad from pH 4 to 9 and rGSTT1 retained more than 75% of its original activity after incubation at pH 5–11. Incubation for 30 min at temperatures below 50 °C also affected the activity insignificantly. The Michaelis constant for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was 0.48 mM.
Human glutathione S-transferase M1a-1a(hGSTM1a-1a) catalyzes the nucleophilic aromatic substitution reaction of glutathione(GSH) to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene(CDNB).In the present study,molecular mechanics(MM) and quantum mechanics(QM) were carried out to explore the details of the catalysis reaction.The obtained pathway reveals that the reaction only proceeds via one transition state (TS) and its energy barrier is very low.The charge population analysis shows that the electrons flow from the GSH group and CDNB to the chlorine,indicating the microcosmic process of the nucleophilic reaction.The computational models distinctly show the catalysis role of the three residues(Tyr6,His107 and Tyr115) in the active site.Especially His107 accelerates the chlorine release by the hydrogen bond interaction in the final stage of the catalysis reaction.Our results support the proposed mechanism by Patskovsky et al.and may be helpful for the investigation of other glutathione S-transferases.
Publisher Summary This chapter presents a procedure for the preparation of glutathione transferases of the rat and the human. The glutathione S-transferases are the enzymes catalyzing conjugation reactions with glutathione as the first step in mercapturic acid synthesis. Although these enzymes may be distinguished from each other by their characteristic substrate-activity spectrum; all of the transferases are active with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate. The reaction of this substrate and glutathione occurs spontaneously and the assay, therefore, requires the use of a control from which enzyme is absent. Not all of the data presented in the chapter summarizing the purification procedure were obtained with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Methyl iodide, 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, and 1,2-epoxy-3-( p -nitrophenoxy)propane have also been used. The homogeneous transferases prepared from human and rat liver represent a group that, aside from overlapping substrate specificity, resemble each other in size and subunit number. Although transferases A and C are similar to a greater degree, by reason of cross-reactivity to antibody raised against either protein, the other transferases from rat liver seem to be quite separate species.
Abstract Administration of phenobarbital, a known inducer of glutathione S -transferase activity in rat liver, failed to stimulate sulfobromophthalein (BSP) conjugation by liver cytosol in hamsters. The latter displayed poor ability to conjugate this substrate, despite very high glutathione-conjugating activity with the broad-spectrum substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). Of the six substrates tested, in this species, 1,2-epoxy-3-(4-nitrophenoxy)propane (ENPP) was the only one whose conjugation was greatly enhanced by phenobarbital (+172%). Nevertheless, hamsters proved as responsive to phenobarbital induction as rats, since it increased their relative liver weight and microsomal enzyme activity. The deficient induction of liver BSP-conjugating activity observed with phenobarbital is consistent with the finding that it did not affect the hepatic transport of this substrate in hamsters.
The enormous metabolic plasticity of plants allows detoxification of many harmful compounds that are generated during biosynthetic processes or are present as biotic or abiotic toxins in their environment. Derivatives of toxic compounds such as glutathione conjugates are moved into the central vacuole via ATP-binding cassette (ABC)-type transporters of the multidrug resistance-associated protein (MRP) subfamily. The Arabidopsis genome contains 15 AtMRP isogenes, four of which (AtMRP1, 2, 11 and 12) cluster together in one of two major phylogenetic clades. We isolated T-DNA knockout alleles in all four highly homologous AtMRP genes of this clade and subjected them to physiological analysis to assess the function of each AtMRP of this group. None of the single atmrp mutants displayed visible phenotypes under control conditions. In spite of the fact that AtMRP1 and AtMRP2 had been described as efficient ATP-dependent organic anion transporters in heterologous expression experiments, the contribution of three of the AtMRP genes (1, 11 and 12) to detoxification is marginal. Only knockouts in AtMRP2 exhibited a reduced sensitivity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, but not towards other herbicides. AtMRP2 but not AtMRP1, 11 and 12 is involved in chlorophyll degradation since ethylene-treated rosettes of atmrp2 showed reduced senescence, and AtMRP2 expression is induced during senescence. This suggests that AtMRP2 is involved in vacuolar transport of chlorophyll catabolites. Vacuolar uptake studies demonstrated that transport of typical MRP substrates was reduced in atmrp2. We conclude that within clade I, only AtMRP2 contributes significantly to overall organic anion pump activity in vivo.
Di-n-butyltin dichloride (DBTC) and tricyclohexyltin chloride (TCHTC) inhibited the glutathione S-transferase activity of rat liver cytosolic supernatants towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Meso-2,3-dimercaptosuccinic acid increased inhibition of glutathione S-transferase by DBTC but lowered inhibition of the enzyme by TCHTC.
Insect glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) play essential roles in the detoxification of insecticides and other xenobiotic compounds. The cabbage white butterfly, Pieris rapae, is an economically important agricultural pest. In this study, 17 cDNA sequences encoding putative GSTs were identified in P. rapae. All cDNAs include a complete open reading frame and were designated PrGSTd1-PrGSTz2. Based on phylogenetic analysis, PrGSTs were divided into six classes (delta, epsilon, omega, sigma, theta and zeta). The exon-intron organizations of these PrGSTs were also analysed. Recombinant proteins of eight PrGSTs (PrGSTD1, PrGSTD2, PrGSTE1, PrGSTE2, PrGSTO1, PrGSTS1, PrGSTT1 and PrGSTZ1) were heterologously expressed in Escherichia coli, and all of these proteins displayed glutathione-conjugating activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). Expression patterns in various larval tissues, at different life stages, and following exposure to sublethal doses of abamectin, chlorantraniliprole or lambda-cyhalothrin were determined by reverse transcription-quantitative PCR. The results showed that PrGSTe3, PrGSTs1, PrGSTs2, and PrGSTs4 were mainly transcribed in the fat body, while PrGSTe2 was expressed predominantly in the Malpighian tubules. Four genes (PrGSTe2, PrGSTo4, PrGSTs4 and PrGSTt1) were mainly expressed in fourth-instar larvae, while others were ubiquitously expressed in egg, larval, pupa and/or adult stages. Abamectin treatment significantly upregulated ten genes (PrGSTd1, PrGSTd3, PrGSTe1, PrGSTe2, PrGSTo1, PrGSTo3, PrGSTs1, PrGSTs3, PrGSTs4 and PrGSTt1). Chlorantraniliprole and lambda-cyhalothrin treatment significantly upregulated nine genes (PrGSTd1, PrGSTd2, PrGSTe1, PrGSTe2, PrGSTe3, PrGSTs1, PrGSTs3, PrGSTs4 and PrGSTz1) and ten genes (PrGSTd1, PrGSTd3, PrGSTe1, PrGSTe2, PrGSTo1, PrGSTo2, PrGSTs1, PrGSTs2, PrGSTs3 and PrGSTz2), respectively. These GSTs are potentially involved in the detoxification of insecticides.
Cells isolated from rat lung by protease digestion were found to catalyze the reduced glutathione (GSH) conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. The rate of conjugation was stimulated severalfold in the presence of GSH, indicating uptake and utilization of extracellular GSH by the lung cells. The stimulation was dependent on the GSH concentration and not due to a spontaneous nonenzymatic reaction or to extracellular GSH-transferase activity. Conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was also measured using isolated perfused rat lung. The conjugation, which was linear for a longer time than with the isolated cells, was also stimulated in the presence of GSH in the perfusion medium. The results indicate the ability of rat lung to utilize extracellular GSH.
Here, the effects of heat-killed Enterococcus faecalis EF-2001 (EF-2001) on atopic eczema (AE) were assessed. An AE model was established in vivo by repetitious topical exposure to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and dermatophagoidesfarinae extract (DFE) via application on each ear. Mice were administered EF-2001 orally for 4 weeks, dermal and epidermal ear thickness, mast cell infiltration of the ear tissue, and serum IgE and IgG2a levels were evaluated. Moreover, pathogenic cytokines levels of the ears, splenocytes, and cervical lymph nodes were determined. EF-2001 reduced AE symptoms grounded in the ear thickness, histopathological analysis, and serum IgE levels. Furthermore, EF-2001 attenuated mast cell infiltration in the ears and CDNB/DFE-induced various pathogenic cytokines levels of the ears, splenocytes and cervical lymph nodes. Thus, our data suggested that EF-2001 may have potential medicinal applications in the treatment of AE through its immunomodulatory properties.
Abstract Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are ubiquitous enzymes and abundant in plants. They are intimately involved in plant metabolism and stress defense related to reactive oxygen species. Our project assigned particular reactions including novel ones to certain GST-isoforms. Transformed E. coli was used to express recombinant GST-isoforms from maize. An N-terminal His tag allowed their purification by affinity chromatography. Three GST-monomers had a molecular weight of 26, 27, 29 kDa, and aggregated to dimers when assayed for their enzymic properties. Four dimeric isoforms were used to study how they interact with tetrapyrroles (of the chlorophyll biosynthesis pathway). It was found that protoporphyrin IX (Proto IX), Mg-protoporphyrin and other tetrapyrroles are bound non-covalently (“liganded”) to GSTs but not conjugated with reduced glutathione. This binding is non-covalent, and results in inhibition of conjugation activity, the degree depends on type of the porphyrin and GST-isoform. I50-values between 1-10 μᴍ were measured for Proto IX, the inhibition by mesoporphyrin and Mg-protoporphyrin was 2- to 5-fold less. The ligand binding is noncompetitive for the substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and competitive for glutathione. The dimer GST 26/26 prevents the (non-enzymic) autoxidation of protoporphyrinogen to Proto IX, which produces phytotoxic reactive oxygen species in the light. GST 27/27 protects hemin against degradation. Protoporphyrinogen is formed in the plastid and then exported into the cytosol. Apparently binding by a suitable GST-isoform ensures that the highly autoxidizable protoporphyrinogen can safely reach the mitochondrium where it is processed to cytochrome.
High doses of T-2 toxin are known to decrease protein synthesis and mono-oxygenase activities in rat liver. The purpose of this study was to investigate whether exposure at a low dose could alter the normal metabolism of the xenobiotic by the liver. Three doses of T-2 toxin, dissolved in olive oil, were orally and daily administered to New Zealand white rabbits for five days. At 0.5mg/kg, three of the five animals died, whereas only a weak decrease in body weight gain and moderate signs of toxicity occurred in rabbits receiving 0.25mg/kg/day, and the body weight increased without signs of toxicity at 0.1mg/kg/day. At 0.25mg/kg/day, total liver microsomal P450 content, and the activities of aminopyrine and benzphetamine N-demethylases, pentoxyresorufin O-depentylase, glutathione S-transferases accepting 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene as substrates, were decreased. By contrast, ethylmorphine and erythromycin N-demethylases, ethoxyresorufin and methoxyresorufin O-dealkylases, ani...
GSH-dependent prostaglandin D(2) synthase (PGDS) enzymes represent the only vertebrate members of class Sigma glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) identified to date. Complementary DNA clones encoding the orthologous human and rat GSH-dependent PGDS (hPGDS and rPGDS, respectively) have been expressed in Escherichia coli, and the recombinant proteins isolated by affinity chromatography. The purified enzymes were both shown to catalyse specifically the isomerization of prostaglandin (PG) H(2) to PGD(2). Each transferase also exhibited GSH-conjugating and GSH-peroxidase activities. The ability of hPGDS to catalyse the conjugation of aryl halides and isothiocyanates with GSH was found to be less than that of the rat enzyme. Whilst there is no difference between the enzymes with respect to their K(m) values for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, marked differences were found to exist with respect to their K(m) for GSH (8 mM versus 0.3 mM for hPGDS and rPGDS, respectively). Using molecular modelling techniques, amino acid substitutions have been identified in the N-terminal domain of these enzymes that lie outside the proposed GSH-binding site, which may explain these catalytic differences. The tissue-specific expression of PGDS also varies significantly between human and rat; amongst the tissues examined, variation in expression between the two species was most apparent in spleen and bone marrow. Differences in catalytic properties and tissue-specific expression of hPGDS and rPGDS appears to reflect distinct physiological roles for class Sigma GST between species. The evolution of divergent functions for the hPGDS and rPGDS is discussed in the context of the orthologous enzyme from chicken.
The enormous metabolic plasticity of plants allows detoxification of many harmful compounds that are generated during biosynthetic processes or are present as biotic or abiotic toxins in their environment. Derivatives of toxic compounds such as glutathione conjugates are moved into the central vacuole via ATP-binding cassette (ABC)-type transporters of the multidrug resistance-associated protein (MRP) subfamily. The Arabidopsis genome contains 15 AtMRP isogenes, four of which (AtMRP1, 2, 11 and 12) cluster together in one of two major phylogenetic clades. We isolated T-DNA knockout alleles in all four highly homologous AtMRP genes of this clade and subjected them to physiological analysis to assess the function of each AtMRP of this group. None of the single atmrp mutants displayed visible phenotypes under control conditions. In spite of the fact that AtMRP1 and AtMRP2 had been described as efficient ATPdependent organic anion transporters in heterologous expression experiments, the contribution of three of the AtMRP genes (1, 11 and 12) to detoxification is marginal. Only knockouts in AtMRP2 exhibited a reduced sensitivity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, but not towards other herbicides. AtMRP2 but not AtMRP1, 11 and 12 is involved in chlorophyll degradation since ethylene-treated rosettes of atmrp2 showed reduced senescence, and AtMRP2 expression is induced during senescence. This suggests that AtMRP2 is involved in vacuolar transport of chlorophyll catabolites. Vacuolar uptake studies demonstrated that transport of typical MRP substrates was reduced in atmrp2. We conclude that within clade I, only AtMRP2 contributes significantly to overall organic anion pump activity in vivo.
In contrast to AtMRP genes of clade II (Gaedeke et al. 2001 , Klein et al. 2004 , knockout mutants in clade I have not been characterized. Here we report the characterization of individual T-DNA insertion mutants in all clade I AtMRP genes. Only atmrp2 knockout mutants exhibit reduced sensitivity towards the toxic compound 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). Furthermore, a delay in chlorophyll degradation in atmrp2 plants but not in the other mutants during ethylene-induced senescence suggests that AtMRP2 is involved in the vacuolar transfer of chlorophyll catabolites. Finally, vacuolar uptake of model glutathione and glucuronide conjugates is reduced in atmrp2 mutants. Taken together, we propose that AtMRP2 is partially responsible for vacuolar deposition of GS-Xs and chlorophyll catabolites in vivo, while the other clade I AtMRP genes do not or only marginally contribute to these processes.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are ubiquitous enzymes and abundant in plants. They are intimately involved in plant metabolism and stress defense related to reactive oxygen species. Our project assigned particular reactions including novel ones to certain GST-isoforms. Transformed E. coli was used to express recombinant GST-isoforms from maize. An N-terminal His tag allowed their purification by affinity chromatography. Three GST-monomers had a molecular weight of 26, 27, 29 kDa, and aggregated to dimers when assayed for their enzymic properties. Four dimeric isoforms were used to study how they interact with tetrapyrroles (of the chlorophyll biosynthesis pathway). It was found that protoporphyrin IX (Proto IX), Mg-protoporphyrin and other tetrapyrroles are bound non-covalently ("liganded") to GSTs but not conjugated with reduced glutathione. This binding is non-covalent, and results in inhibition of conjugation activity, the degree depends on type of the porphyrin and GST-isoform. I 50 -values between 1Ð10 µm were measured for Proto IX, the inhibition by mesoporphyrin and Mg-protoporphyrin was 2-to 5-fold less. The ligand binding is noncompetitive for the substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and competitive for glutathione. The dimer GST 26/26 prevents the (non-enzymic) autoxidation of protoporphyrinogen to Proto IX, which produces phytotoxic reactive oxygen species in the light. GST 27/27 protects hemin against degradation. Protoporphyrinogen is formed in the plastid and then exported into the cytosol. Apparently binding by a suitable GST-isoform ensures that the highly autoxidizable protoporphyrinogen can safely reach the mitochondrium where it is processed to cytochrome.
The acute combined effects of cadmium (Cd) and nickel (Ni) on hepatic monooxygenase activities (ethylmorphine N-demethylase, EMND; aminopyrine N-demethylase, AMND; aniline 4-hydroxylase, AH), cytochrome P-450, cytochrome b5, microsomal heme and reduced glutathione (GSH) levels and glutathione S-transferase (GST) activities toward several substrates (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, CDNB; 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, DCNB; ethacrynic acid, EAA; 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)-propane, ENPP) were determined and compared with those of Cd or Ni alone in mice. Male adult mice (25-30 g) were administered either a single dose of Cd (3.58 mg CdCl2.H2O/kg, i.p.) 48 hr prior to killing or a single dose of Ni (59.5 mg NiCl2.H2O/kg, s.c.) 16 hr prior to killing. For the combined treatment, the animals received the single dose of Ni 32 hr after the single dose of Cd and were then killed 16 hr later. Cd treatment alone significantly decreased EMND, AMND, and AH activities and cytochrome P-450 and heme levels as compared with controls. Cytochrome b5 level was not altered by Cd treatment. Cd also inhibited GSH level and the GST activities toward CDNB, EAA and ENPP significantly. No significant change was observed in the GST activity for DCNB by Cd. Ni treatment alone, however, decreased the monooxygenase and GST activities studied, and cytochrome P-450, cytochrome b5, heme and GSH levels significantly. Combined treatment significantly depressed the monooxygenase activities and cytochromes and heme levels. GSH level was not significantly altered.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The red blood cells (RBCs) derived from blood taken from homozygous sickle cell (SS) patients demonstrate densities that are inversely proportional to the intracellular reduced glutathione (GSH) content. Addition of 1 mM 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) to lowdensity sickle cells (LDSS), at 4°C, results in a shift of LDSS erythrocytes to high-density sickle cells (HDSS), with corresponding decreases in GSH. We have previously demonstrated that this CDNB effect was due to increased K+ leakage and that dense cell formation could be inhibited by clotrimazole (specific for the Gardos channel) but not DIOA (specific for the K+‐Cl˛ co-transport system) at pH 7.4 (Shartava et al. Am. J. Hematol. 1999;62:19‐24). Here we demonstrate that clotrimazole (10 µM) inhibits dense cell formation at pH 7.1 and 6.8, while DIOA (1 mM) has no effect. As pH 6.8 is the optimal pH for the K + ‐Cl ˛ co-transport system, we can now reasonably conclude that damage to the Gardos channel is responsible for CDNB-induced dense cell formation. Am. J. Hematol. 64:184‐ 189, 2000. © 2000 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
Male albino mice were raised on diets containing less than 10 ppb selenium (Se-) or supplemented with 0.5 ppm selenium (Se+) for 6 months. In the (Se-) group total liver selenium was less than 10% of the control, liver selenium-dependent glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) less than 2%. The specific activities of catalase and superoxide dismutase showed essentially no differences between the dietary groups. Several phase I-related specific enzyme activities were measured in liver microsomes. No significant differences between the two animal groups were found for cytochrome P-450 and b 5 content, NADH-cytochrome b 5 reductase, as well as for aniline hydroxylation and aminopyrine dealkylation rates. In (Se-) microsomes, NADPH-cytochrome P-450 reductase activity was about half that found in (Se+) microsomes. An increase in microsomes from (Se-) mice was found for 7-ethoxycoumarine deethylation rate (460%), cytochrome P-450 hydroperoxidase activity (170%), and heme oxygenase (276%). The N-oxidation rate of the flavin-containing monooxygenase decreased by 35%, the N-demethylation rate by 50% in (Se-) animals. Stopped-flow measurements of the reduction rates of microsomal pigments did not support evidence for limitations in microsomal electron supply during selenium deficiency. Among the phase II reactions examined, sulfotransferase activity towards 4-nitrophenol was 47% of the controls in Se-deficient liver cytosols while UDP-glucuronyl transferase activity towards this substrate increased to 215%. Glutathione-S-transferase activity was much higher in (Se-) livers than in (Se+): 310% with 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, 255% with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 120% with ethacrynic acid as substrate. The data indicate that in addition to GSH-Px many other enzyme activities in mouse liver are affected by prolonged dietary selenium deficiency. These effects might be useful in assessing the severity of selenium deficiency. A microsomal selenium-dependent metabolic modulator is discussed as a possible mechanism.
Human glutathione transferase A1-1 (GST A1-1) has a flexible C-terminal segment that forms a helix (α9) closing the active site upon binding of glutathione and a small electrophilic substrate such as 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). In the absence of active-site ligands, the C-terminal segment is not fixed in one position and is not detectable in the crystal structure. A key residue in the α9-helix is Phe 220, which can interact with both the enzyme-bound glutathione and the second substrate, and possibly guide the reactants into the transition state. Mutation of Phe 220 into Ala and Thr was shown to reduce the catalytic efficiency of GST A1-1. The mutation of an additional residue, Phe 222, caused further decrease in activity. The presence of a viscosogen in the reaction medium decreased the kinetic parameters kcat and kcat/Km for the conjugation of CDNB catalyzed by wild-type GST A1-1, in agreement with the view that product release is rate limiting for the substrate-saturated enzyme. The mutations cause a decrease of the viscosity dependence of both kinetic parameters, indicating that the motion of the α9-helix is linked to catalysis in wild-type GST A1-1. The isomerization reaction with the alternative substrate Δ5-androstene-3,17-dione (AD) is affected in a similar manner by the viscosogens. The transition state energy of the isomerization reaction, like that of the CDNB conjugation, is lowered by Phe 220 as indicated by the effects of the mutations on kcat/Km. The results demonstrate that Phe 220 and Phe 222, in the dynamic C-terminal segment, influence rate-determining steps in the catalytic mechanism of both the substitution and the isomerization reactions.
The chemopreventive agent sulforaphane (SFN) exerts anti-inflammatory activity by thiol-dependent inhibition of nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) DNA binding. To further analyze the underlying mechanisms, we focused on the thioredoxin/thioredoxin reductase (TrxR) system as a key redox mechanism regulating NF-κB DNA binding. Using cultured Raw 264.7 mouse macrophages as a model, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), a known inhibitor of TrxR, was identified as an inhibitor of lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-mediated nitric oxide (NO) production and of NF-κB DNA binding. CDNB and SFN acted synergistically with respect to inhibition of LPS-induced NO release, and we consequently identified SFN as a novel inhibitor of TrxR enzymatic activity in vitro. Short-term treatment of Raw macrophages with SFN or CDNB resulted in the inhibition of TrxR activity in vivo with half-maximal inhibitory concentration of 25.0 ± 3.5 µM and 9.4 ± 3.7 µM, respectively, whereas after a 24-h treatment with 25 µM SFN, TrxR activity was >1.5-fold ele...
The glutathione S-transferase (GST) superfamily is involved in the detoxification of various xenobiotics. A silkworm GST, belonging to a previously reported Epsilon-class GST family, was identified, named bmGSTE, cloned, and produced in Escherichia coli. Investigation of this enzyme's properties showed that it was able to catalyse glutathione (GSH) with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and ethacrynic acid, and also that it possessed GSH-dependent peroxidase activity. The enzyme's highly conserved amino acid residues, including Ser11, His53, Val55, Ser68 and Arg112, were of interest regarding their possible involvement in its catalytic activity. These residues were replaced with alanine by site-directed mutagenesis and subsequent kinetic analysis of bmGSTE mutants indicated that His53, Val55, and Ser68 were important for enzyme function.
In this work, we studied a recombinant mu-class glutathione transferase of 25.5 kDa from Taenia solium metacestode (rTs25GST1-1) that follows Michaelis–Menten kinetics with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). The kinetic parameters obtained for rTs25GST1-1 with CDNB and GSH were V max = 12.04 μmol/min/mg and Km = 1.38 mM, and V max = 10.20 μmol/min/mg and Km = 0.90, respectively. The optimal activity was found at pH 8 in the 37–40 °C temperature range. Circular dichroism studies for rTs25GST1-1 at different pH showed that it maintains a typical α-helix structure between pH 6.5–7.5, but loses it between pH 8 and 8.5. Thermal CD assays showed rTs25GST1-1 barely changed its secondary structure. Unfolding/refolding assays showed that rTs25GST1-1 retained its structure up to 40 °C without loss of its activity. Additionally, exposure of rTs25GST1-1 to cumene hydroperoxide did not produce significant changes in its structure and only affected 50 % of its activity.
The glutathione S-transferases (alpha, mu, and pi), a family of Phase II detoxication enzymes, play a critical role in protecting the colon mucosa by catalyzing the conjugation of dietary carcinogens with glutathione. We investigated the efficacy of using the glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity of blood lymphocytes and GST-mu expression as biomarkers of risk for colorectal cancer. GST activity was measured in the blood lymphocytes of control individuals (n = 67) and in the blood lymphocytes (n = 60) and colon tissue (n = 34) of individuals at increased risk for colon cancer. Total GST activity was determined spectrophotometrically with the use of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as a substrate. The ability to express the um subclass of GST was determined with the use of an ELISA. Although interindividual variability in the GST activity of blood lymphocytes was greater than 8-fold (range, 16.7-146.8 nmol/min/mg), the GST activity of blood lymphocytes and colon tissue within an individual was constant over time and was unrelated to sex, age, or race. The GST activity of blood lymphocytes from high-risk individuals was significantly lower than that of blood lymphocytes from control individuals (P < or = 0.004). No association was observed between the frequency of GST-mu phenotype and risk for colorectal cancer. Blood lymphocytes from high-risk individuals unable to express GST-mu had lower levels of GST activity than did those from control subjects with the GST-mu null phenotype; however, this difference was significant in male subjects only (P < or = 0.006). Analysis of paired samples of blood lymphocytes and colon tissue indicated a strong correlation between the GST activity of the two tissue types (Spearman's rank correlation, r = 0.87; P < or = 0.0001). The GST activity of blood lymphocytes may be used to identify high-risk individuals with decreased protection from this Phase II detoxication enzyme who may benefit from clinical trials evaluating GST modulators as chemopreventive agents for colorectal cancer. The GST activity of blood lymphocytes may also be used in colorectal cancer chemoprevention trials to monitor the responsiveness of colon tissue to regimens that modify Phase II detoxication enzymes.
The objective of this study was to evaluate the potential of the structurally related aliphatic isothiocyanates erucin and sulforaphane to modulate the pulmonary carcinogen-metabolising enzyme systems in rat lung, a target organ of their chemopreventive activity. Precision-cut rat lung slices were prepared and incubated for 24 h with a range of concentrations of either erucin or sulforaphane, up to 50microM. Neither compound modulated the O-deethylation of ethoxyresorufin whereas they elevated markedly CYP1A1 and, to a lesser extent, CYP1B1 apoprotein levels. Neither compound influenced the O-depentylation of pentoxyresorufin or CYP2B apoprotein levels, but sulforaphane caused a modest increase in CYP3A2 apoprotein levels. Pulmonary quinone reductase activity, monitored using 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazo-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide as substrate, was markedly up-regulated by both compounds and was paralleled by a similar rise in protein levels. Both compounds increased cytosolic glutathione S-transferase activity, measured using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as the accepting substrate; a modest rise was seen in GSTalpha protein levels, determined immunologically, whereas GSTpi levels were un-affected by the same treatment. Finally, both erucin and sulforaphane increased total glutathione concentration in lung cytosol. It is concluded that these aliphatic isothiocyanates have the potential to antagonise the carcinogenicity of pulmonary carcinogens by stimulating the in situ detoxication of their DNA-binding genotoxic metabolites.
The major isoenzyme of glutathione S-transferase (GST 1) was purified to homogeneity from cytosolic extracts of Mytilus edulis gill tissue by GSH-agarose affinity chromatography followed by Mono Q ion-exchange f.p.l.c. This enzyme was particularly active with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, ethacrynic acid and cumene hydroperoxide as substrates. Immunoblotting and amino acid sequencing studies indicate that the enzyme belongs to the Pi class of GSTs. A related protein which binds to GSH-agarose was also purified. This GSH-binding protein did not immunoblot with GST antisera and showed no detectable catalytic activity with GST substrates although its N-terminal sequence was similar to Mu-class GSTs. Gel-filtration chromatography indicated that GST 1 is a dimer and the GSH-binding protein a monomer. Mass spectrometry and SDS/PAGE indicate subunit molecular masses of 24 kDa (GST 1) and 25 kDa (GSH-binding protein), respectively. Both proteins have amino acid compositions typical of GSTs.
Abstract The analysis of glutathione transferase (GST) isoenzyme patterns is of interest in many fields as hepatic glutathione transferase activity is increased by exposure to a variety of xenobiotics and its isoenzymatic forms are induced differentially. A high-performance liquid chromatography method has been developed for the rapid determination of individual isoenzyme levels in crude extracts using an anion-exchange column connected to an on-line system to automatically detect GST activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as the substrate. When 50–200 μl of a cytosolic fraction of fish liver containing up to 15 mg/ml of protein and less than 2 units of GST were injected, a high resolution and highly reproducible chromatogram was obtained. The activity profile determined automatically showed eight to twelve peaks (depending on the sample) that were quantified and could be classified into three groups. Starting from intact tissue, a complete isoenzyme pattern could be obtained in less than 3 h. The method has been applied to ecotoxicological studies with fish samples.
Genomic approaches have the potential to enhance the specificity and predictive accuracy of existing toxicology endpoints, including those for chemical sensitization. The present study was conducted to determine whether gene expression responses can distinguish contact sensitizers (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene [DNCB] and hexyl cinnamic aldehyde [HCA]), respiratory sensitizers (ortho-phthalaldehyde and trimellitic anhydride [TMA]), and nonsensitizing irritants (methyl salicylate [MS] and nonanoic acid [NA]) in the local lymph node assay (LLNA). Female Balb/c mice received doses of each chemical as per the standard LLNA dosing regimen on days 1, 2, and 3. Auricular lymph nodes were analyzed for tritiated thymidine ((3)HTdR) incorporation on day 6 and for gene expression responses on days 6 and 10. All chemicals induced dose-dependent increases in stimulation index, which correlated strongly with the number of differentially expressed genes. A majority of genes modulated by the irritants were similarly altered by the sensitizers, consistent with the irritating effects of the sensitizers. However, a select number of responses involved with immune-specific functions, such as dendritic cell activation, were unique to the sensitizers and may offer the ability to distinguish sensitizers from irritants. Genes for the mast cell proteases 1 and 8, Lgals7, Tim2, Aicda, Il4, and Akr1c18 were more strongly regulated by respiratory sensitizers compared with contact sensitizers and may represent potential biomarkers for discriminating between contact and respiratory sensitizers. Collectively, these data suggest that gene expression responses may serve as useful biomarkers to distinguish between respiratory and contact sensitizers and nonsensitizing irritants in the LLNA.
Expression and activity of jejunal multidrug resistance-associated protein 2 (Mrp2) and glutathione-S-transferase (GST) were examined in fructose fed Wistar rats, an experimental model of metabolic syndrome. Animals were fed on (a) control diet or (b) control diet plus 10% w/vol fructose in the drinking water. Mrp2 and the α class of GST proteins as well as their corresponding mRNAs were decreased, suggesting a transcriptional regulation by fructose. Confocal microscopy studies reaffirmed down-regulation of Mrp2. Everted intestinal sacs were incubated with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in the mucosal compartment, and the glutathione-conjugated derivative, dinitrophenyl- S-glutathione (DNP-SG; model Mrp2 substrate), was measured in the same compartment to estimate Mrp2 activity. Excretion of DNP-SG was substantially decreased by fructose treatment, consistent with simultaneous down-regulation of Mrp2 and GST. In addition, the effect of fructose on intestinal barrier function exerted by Mrp2 was evaluated in vivo using valsartan, a recognized Mrp2 substrate of therapeutic use. After intraduodenal administration as a bolus, intestinal absorption of valsartan was increased in fructose-drinking animals. Fructose administration also induced oxidative stress in intestinal tissue as demonstrated by significant increases of intestinal lipid peroxidation end products and activity of the antioxidant enzyme superoxide dismutase, by a decreased GSH/GSSG ratio. Moreover, fructose treatment conduced to increased intestinal levels of the proinflammatory cytokines IL-β1 and IL-6. Collectively, our results demonstrate that metabolic syndrome-like conditions, induced by a fructose-rich diet, result in down-regulation of intestinal Mrp2 expression and activity and consequently in an impairment of its barrier function.
Three glutathione-S-transferase (GST) isozymes (Q1, Q2, and Q3) from the northern quahog (Mercinaria mercinaria) were purified and separated with a combination of affinity and ion exchange chromatography. SDS-PAGE analysis of the separated quahog GSTs indicated there are four distinct subunits of the enzyme with molecular masses ranging between 23 and 27 kDa. The electrophoretic analysis in combination with GST information from literature indicates that among the quahog GST isozymes, there is a single homodimer and two heterodimers. Enzymatic kinetic analysis of the homodimeric quahog GST (Q3) using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and glutathione as reactants resulted in Vmax and Km values of 33.2 μmol min−1 mg−1 and 0.40 mM, respectively. A pH profile analysis of the Q3 GST indicates that the optimum catalytic pH is 7.6. The Q3 isozyme composes about 28% of the ion exchange purified GSTs but accounts for only 9% of the total GST enzymatic activity (25 μmol min−1 mg−1). An analysis investigating the dependence of the Q3 GST activity on temperature resulted in a retention of enzymatic activity (50–30% at temperature extremes from −13°C to 100°C), suggesting a unconventional role for the Q3 GST in quahog metabolism.
The glutathione (GSH)-conjugating activity of human class Pi glutathione S-transferase (GST pi) toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was significantly lowered by reaction with N-acetylimidazole, an O-acetylating reagent for tyrosine residues. Further, the replacement of Tyr7 in GST pi, which is conserved in all cytosolic GSTs, with phenylalanine by site-directed mutagenesis also lowered the activities toward CDNB and ethacrynic acid. The Km values of the mutant for both GSH and CDNB were almost equivalent to those of the wild type, while the Vmax of the former was about 55-fold smaller than that of the latter. Therefore, Tyr7 is considered to be an essential residue for the catalytic activity of GST pi.
Abstract Previous experiments have indicated that the crystallins of the squid lens (S-crystallins) are evolutionarily related to glutathione S-transferases (GST) (EC 2.5.1.18). Here we confirm by peptide sequencing that the crystallins of the lens of the squid Ommastrephes sloani pacificus comprise a family of GST-like proteins. Squid lens extracts showed 400 times less GST activity than those of liver using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as a substrate, suggesting that the abundant GST-like crystallins lack enzymatic activity. Four different cDNAs (pSL20-1, pSL18, pSL11, and pSL4) showed 20-25% similarity in homologous regions with mammalian GST polypeptides. pSL20-1, pSL18, and pSL4 each encode an S-crystallin with a unique internal peptide that is unrelated to mammalian GSTs or any other sequence in GenBank. The S-crystallin family is encoded in a minimum of 9-10 genes, and the exon-intron structures of at least two of these (SL20-1 and SL11) are similar to those of the mammalian GST genes. The SL20-1 gene has six exons, with the its unique internal peptide encoded precisely in exon 4; the SL11 gene lacks a unique internal peptide and has five exons. Experiments using bacterial chloramphenicol acetyltransferase as a reporter gene showed that at least 84 and 111 base pairs of 5'-flanking sequence are needed for function of the SL20-1 and SL11 promoters, respectively, in a transfected rabbit lens epithelial cell line (N/N1003A). Within these regions each has a putative TATA box and an upstream AP-1 site overlapping with antioxidant responsive-like elements, which are regulatory elements in the rat GST Ya and quinone reductase genes responsive to oxidative stress.
Four types of glutathione S-transferase were purified to homogeneity from guinea pig liver by DEAE-cellulose, Sephadex G-75, CM-cellulose, and affinity chromatography. These isozymes were named a, b, c, and d based on the reverse order of elution from a CM-cellulose column, and had specific activities of 89.6, 92.2, 99.0, and 44.0 units/mg, respectively, when assayed with 1 mM each of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and reduced glutathione. All four transferases of guinea pig liver were homodimers. The transferases b, c, and d had a similar molecular weight of 50,000 and their subunit sizes were 25,000, but the corresponding values for transferase a were 45,000 and 23,500, respectively. Transferase a was notably different in the activities towards organic hydroperoxides and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene from the other isozymes. Transferases a and b, the major forms in guinea pig liver, were studied with respect to their biochemical properties, including kinetic parameters, absorption and fluorescence spectra, and bilirubin binding. Glutathione peroxidase activity of the transferase a was about 100 times higher than that of other isozymes. In guinea pig liver, it is estimated that transferase a is the major glutathione peroxidase, accounting for about 75% of the total organic hydroperoxide reduction.
The adult male and female rats were exposed to cigarette smoke (CS) 5 times a day, with 1 h intervals, for 3 days in a chamber where smoke and fresh air lead alternatively and were killed 16 h after the last treatments and hepatic and pulmonary monooxygenase (MO) activities (aniline-4-hydroxylase, AH; aminopyrine-N-demethylase, AMND; 7-ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase, EROD; p-nitroanisole-O-demethylase, p-NAOD), lipid peroxidation (LP) and reduced glutathione (GSH) levels and glutathione-S-transferases (GSTs) activities toward several substrates (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, CDNB; 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, DCNB; ethacrynic acid, EAA; 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)-propane, ENPP) were determined. CS significantly increased hepatic AMND, EROD and p-NAOD activities whereas it unaltered AH activity in both genders as compared with controls. In the lung, EROD and p-NAOD activities were also significantly increased by CS in both genders. Pulmonary AH activity, however, significantly increased in males but remained unchanged in females. Pulmonary AMND activity significantly increased in females but remained unaltered in males. A significant decrease was noted in the LP level of males, while that of females was unaltered by CS in the liver. Pulmonary GSH and LP, and hepatic GSH levels were significantly increased by CS in both genders. In males, GST activities toward CDNB and DCNB did not alter, whereas GST activities toward EAA and ENPP significantly increased and decreased, respectively, in the liver. In females, CS significantly increased hepatic GST activity toward DCNB but it was ineffective on the other hepatic GST activities. All pulmonary GST activities of males were significantly depressed by CS. In females, however, CS significantly increased pulmonary GST activities toward CDNB and DCNB but was ineffective on GST activities toward EAA and ENPP. These results suggest that gender related differences exist in the modulations of hepatic GST, and pulmonary MO and GST activities but not in those of hepatic MO activities, by CS in rats.
We have previously characterized a pathogen-induced gene from wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) that was named GstA1 based on sequence similarities with glutathione-S-transferases (GSTs) of maize (R. Dudler, C. Hertig, G. Rebmann, J. Bull, F. Mauch [1991] Mol Plant Microbe Interact 4: 14-18). We have constructed a full-length GstA1 cDNA by combinatorial polymerase chain reaction and demonstrate by functional expression of the cDNA in Escherichia coli that the GstA1-encoded protein has GST activity. An antiserum raised against a GstA1 fusion protein specifically recognized a protein with an apparent molecular mass of 29 kD on immunoblots of extracts from bacteria expressing the GstA1 cDNA and extracts from wheat inoculated with Erysiphe graminis. The GstA1-encoded protein was named GST29. RNA and immunoblot analysis showed that GstA1 was only weakly expressed in control plants and was specifically induced by pathogen attack and by the GST substrate glutathione, but not by various xenobiotics. In contrast, a structurally and antigenically unrelated GST with an apparent molecular mass of 25 kD that was detected with an antiserum raised against GSTs of maize was expressed at a high basal level. This GST25 and an additional immunoreactive protein named GST26 were strongly induced by cadmium and by the herbicides atrazine, paraquat, and alachlor, but not by pathogen attack. Compared with the pathogen-induced GST29, GST25 and GST26 showed a high affinity toward glutathione-agarose and were much more active toward the model substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Thus, wheat contains at least two distinct GST classes that are differentially regulated by xenobiotics and by pathogen attack and whose members have different enzymic properties. GST25 and GST26 appear to have a function in xenobiotic metabolism, whereas GST29 is speculated to fulfill a more specific role in defense reactions against pathogens.
1. In view of the anticarcinogenic effects of the isoflavonoid genistein and the known ability of various flavonoids to induce carcinogen-metabolizing enzymes, the ability of the isoflavonoids genistein and equol to induce these enzymes was studied in mouse. 2. In comparison with induction by the positive control beta-naphthoflavone (40 mg/kg i.p. 4 days) neither genistein or equol (0.4-40 mg/kg i.p. 4 days) gave a significant induction of ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase, p-nitrophenol oxidase or immunoreactive CYP1A2 or CYP2E1. There was also no induction of erythromycin-N-demethylase or elevation of immunoreactive CYP3A1. 3. In contrast with the induction by beta-naphthoflavone of glutathione S-transferase protein and activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, neither isoflavone exhibited such induction. 4. Response elements for human CYP1A1, glutathione S-transferase lambda a and the xenobiotic response element (XRE) in HepG2 cells were activated by beta-naphthoflavone but not by genistein or equol. 5. The isoflavones have been found not to induce a range of enzymes involved in carcinogen metabolism. The lack of enzyme induction differs from the characteristics of many other flavonoids. The results do not support the monofunctional induction of GST as a basis of anticarcinogenicity.
Computational studies are reported for reactions of 4-substituted-1-chloro-2,6-dinitrobenzenes 1, 6-substituted-1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzenes 2 and some of the corresponding 1-phenoxy derivatives 3 and 4 with aniline in the gas phase. The effects of substituent groups in the calculated energy values for reactants 1–4, transition states structures, intermediates and products formed in the reactions between the compounds and anilines have been compared. Calculated bonds length and angles from optimized structures of the reactants were comparable with values reported for some of compounds 1–4 obtained by X-ray crystal structures analysis. Generally, the decomposition of the Meisenheimer intermediate to the products requires more energy compared with the reactants except for when R = H. The order of stabilization of the intermediate was found to reflect the relative order of activation by substituents in the substrates. The 4-substituted-1-chloro-2,6-dinitrobenzenes 1 and the phenoxy derivatives 3 were found to be more stable than their corresponding 6-substituted analogues. This is an indication that the rate of nucleophilic attack at 1-position will increase with increasing ring activation but may be reduced by steric repulsion at the reaction centre that increases in the order Cl < OPh. However, the steric hindrance to the steps involved in nucleophilic substitution by aniline is significantly increased when the substrates contain two ortho-substituents. In most cases, the rate determining step is the decomposition of the σ-adduct intermediate except with 1-chloro-2,6-dinitrobenzenes 1 and 6-substituted-1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzenes 2, either because of reduction in ring activation or the presence of bulky ortho-substituents in the chloro compounds 1 and 2. Copyright © 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
GST assay. For the measurement of GST activity, 1 ml reaction mixture contained 0.1 M sodium phosphate buffer (pH 6.5), 20 ml enzyme extract and 2 % 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). The enzyme activity [U (mg protein) 21 ] was calculated by monitoring the reaction mixture for 180 s (60 s intervals) at 340 nm in a spectrophotometer, as described elsewhere (Habig et al., 1974) .
Both compounds increased cytosolic glutathione S-transferase activity, measured using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as the accepting substrate; a modest rise was seen in GSTα protein levels, determined immunologically, whereas GSTπ levels were unaffected by the same treatment. Finally, both erucin and sulforaphane increased total glutathione concentration in lung cytosol. It is concluded that these aliphatic isothiocyanates have the potential to antagonise the carcinogenicity of pulmonary carcinogens by stimulating the in situ detoxication of their DNA-binding genotoxic metabolites.
Abstract Administration of tridiphane (Tandem, DOWCO 356, 2-(3,5-dichlorophenyl)-2-(2,2,2-trichloroethyl)oxirane) to male Swiss-Webster mice for 3 days at 100, 250, and 500 mg/kg (ip) resulted in increases in liver weight accompanied by an increase in mitotic index and increases in large particle and microsomal protein. Epoxide hydrolase (EH) activity towards cis -stilbene oxide (CSO, microsomal EH) was elevated in microsomes and cytosol, a decrease in microsomal cholesterol EH was found, and hydrolysis of trans -stilbene oxide (TSO, cytosolic EH) was elevated in the cytosol but not in the microsomes. Glutathione S -transferase (GST) activity was elevated in cytosol for CSO, TSO, and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB), with inconsistent responses found with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and 1,2-epoxy-3-( p -nitrophenoxy)propane (ENPP). Microsomal GST was not consistently effected by tridiphane. Clofibrate (500 mg/kg, 3 daily ip injections) treatment resulted in similar responses in liver size, microsomal protein, and the EHs. The increase in cytosolic EH activity previously has been noted only in animals treated with peroxisome proliferators. Examination of livers from mice treated with 250 mg/kg tridiphane revealed that an increase in hepatic peroxisomes was apparent after 3 days of treatment. This was accompanied by decreases in serum cholesterol and triglyceride levels and increases in liver carnitine acetyl transferase and cyanide-insensitive oxidation of palmitoyl-CoA. This study demonstrates that tridiphane does have in vivo effects on mammalian epoxide-metabolizing enzymes and extends the association of increased cytosolic epoxide hydrolase activity with peroxisome proliferation.
To determine the substrate range capability of Sphingomonas paucimobilis strain EPA505, a number of aromatic compounds were tested as potential growth substrates. Strain EPA505 grew on phenanthrene, naphthalene, fluoranthene, toluene, benzoic acid, 2,3- and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acids, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, anthracene, 2-hydroxy-3-naphthoic acid and 1-hydroxy- 2-naphthoic acid, salicylic acid, and catechol. Strain EPA505 was unable to grow on coumarine 3-carboxylic acid, naphthalene dicarboxylic acid, acenaphthene, chrysene, pyrene, benzo[b]fluoranthene, and fluorene. Catabolic products were not detected or identified when the bacterium was incubated with coumarine 3-carboxylic acid, naphthalene dicarboxylic acid, acenaphthene, chrysene, or benzo[b]fluoranthene. Dihydroxypyrene, the ortho ring fission product of pyrene, and 10-hydroxy-1- phenanthroic acid were detected when the bacterium was incubated with pyrene. The open rings of benzo[b]fluoranthene, hydroxyacephenanthroic acid, hydroxyacephenanthrene, and phenanthrene anhydride, catabolites of benzo[b]fluoranthene degradation, were detected with Tn5 mutants of EPA505. With strain EPA505, both 9-fluorenone and an open ring fission product accumulated during incubation with fluorene. Other catabolites beyond the open ring of fluorene were detected, specifically dihydroxyfluorene, hydroxy-9-fluorenone, dihydroxy-9-fluorenone, hydroxyindane, and a putative glutathione-conjugated benzylanhydride. Benzylanhydride appeared to be a final end product of fluorene degradation by strain EPA505.
The inhibitory potencies of different flavonoids for rat liver cytosolic glutathione S-transferase activity varied over 30-fold, depending on the pattern of hydroxylation, the presence of a C-2, C-3 double bond and the substitution of a hydroxyl group with a sugar moiety. Kinetic inactivation studies of the enzyme with the inhibitor quercetin revealed a non-competitive profile versus both glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene.
A highly active glutathione S-transferase was purified from adult German cockroaches, Blattella germanica. The purified enzyme appeared as a single band of 24 kDa by SDS/PAGE, and had a different electrophoretic mobility than, a previously identified Sigma class glutathione S-transferase (Bla g 5). Kinetic study of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene conjugation revealed a high catalytic rate but common substrate-binding and cosubstrate-binding affinities, with V(max), k(cat), K(m) for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and K(m) for glutathione estimated to be 664 micromol x mg(-1) x min(-1), 545 s(-1), 0.33 mm and 0.76 mm, respectively. Interestingly, this enzyme possessed the highest activity for cumene hydroperoxide among insect glutathione S-transferases reported to date. Along with the ability to metabolize 1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis(p-chlorophenyl)ethane and 4-hydroxynonenal, this glutathione S-transferase may play a role in defense against insecticides as well as oxidative stress. On the basis of the amino acid sequences obtained from Edman degradation and MS analyses, a 987-nucleotide cDNA clone encoding a glutathione S-transferase (BggstD1) was isolated. The longest ORF encoded a 24 614 Da protein consisting of 216 amino acid residues. The sequence had close similarities ( approximately 45-60%) to that of Delta class glutathione S-transferases, but had only 14% identity to Bla g 5. The putative amino acid sequence contained matching peptide fragments of the purified glutathione S-transferase. ELISA showed that BgGSTD1 bound to serum IgE obtained from patients with cockroach allergy, indicating that the protein may be a cockroach allergen.
Intracellular glutathione-conjugate transport was evaluated in the human small cell lung carcinoma cell line GLC(4) with low multidrug resistance protein (MRP1) expression and its 300x doxorubicin-resistant, MRP1-over-expressing, GLC(4)-Adr subline. Transport of non-toxic concentrations of monochlorobimane and 5-chloro-methyl fluorescein diacetate was evaluated using fluorescence microscopy. After exposure to these compounds, fluorescence was observed especially in intracellular vesicles in GLC(4)-Adr. Immunotransmission electron microscopy showed that MRP1 was present in the vesicle membranes and plasma membrane, while inside the vesicles the glutathione conjugate of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene could be detected. Experiments with brefeldin A, which induces arrest in vesicle release from the Golgi complex, indicated that these vesicles may originate from the trans-Golgi network, In GLC(4)-Adr cells, doxorubicin also was transported in vesicles, with an arrest in vesicle release from the Golgi complex. Our results indicate that MRP1 functions as a glutathione-conjugate transporter not only at the plasma membrane but also in intracellular secretory vesicles. (C) 1998 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
IMS (intermembrane space) SOD1 (Cu/Zn-superoxide dismutase) is inactive in isolated intact rat liver mitochondria and is activated following oxidative modification of its critical thiol groups. The present study aimed to identify biochemical pathways implicated in the regulation of IMS SOD1 activity and to assess the impact of its functional state on key mitochondrial events. Exogenous H2O2 (5 μM) activated SOD1 in intact mitochondria. However, neither H2O2 alone nor H2O2 in the presence of mitochondrial peroxiredoxin III activated SOD1, which was purified from mitochondria and subsequently reduced by dithiothreitol to an inactive state. The reduced enzyme was activated following incubation with the superoxide generating system, xanthine and xanthine oxidase. In intact mitochondria, the extent and duration of SOD1 activation was inversely correlated with mitochondrial superoxide production. The presence of TxrR-1 (thioredoxin reductase-1) was demonstrated in the mitochondrial IMS by Western blotting. Inhibitors of TxrR-1, CDNB (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene) or auranofin, prolonged the duration of H2O2-induced SOD1 activity in intact mitochondria. TxrR-1 inactivated SOD1 purified from mitochondria in an active oxidized state. Activation of IMS SOD1 by exogenous H2O2 delayed CaCl2-induced loss of transmembrane potential, decreased cytochrome c release and markedly prevented superoxide-induced loss of aconitase activity in intact mitochondria respiring at state-3. These findings suggest that H2O2, superoxide and TxrR-1 regulate IMS SOD1 activity reversibly, and that the active enzyme is implicated in protecting vital mitochondrial functions.
In the present study, reconstructed human epidermis (RHE) was used as an in vitro model to discriminate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB), nickel sulfate (NiSO(4)), oxazolone (OXA), 2,4-dinitrofluorobenzene (DNFB) and 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS) as skin sensitizers from benzalkonium chloride (BC), benzoic acid (BA) and sodium lauryl sulfate (SLS) as skin irritants. Our criteria were (a) the differential IL-1alpha and IL-8 synthesis and release (b) cytotoxicity assessment by MTT assay. When the RHE are topically treated with the sensitizers, very low levels of extra- and intracellular IL-1alpha are observed although they induce significant cytotoxicity. In contrast, they exhibit a sharp maximum of IL-8 release. In the presence of the tested irritants, we observe the inverse cytokine release profile, although they induce dose-dependent cytotoxicity profiles similar to those observed with the sensitizers. Finally, IL-1alpha mRNA upregulation is observed after topical application of both sensitizers and irritants, but only the latter significantly increase extracellular IL-1alpha. In conclusion, our results suggest that the associated determination of IL-8, with IL-1alpha, and MTT conversion are at least necessary to discriminate and classify, in a single assay, irritant and sensitizing agents and represent a potential in vitro alternative to two classical in vivo assays.
The participation of the hydroxyl group of tyrosine 115 in the catalytic mechanism of isoenzyme 3-3 of rat glutathione (GSH) S-transferase is implicated by x-ray crystallographic analysis of a product complex and confirmed by comparison of the catalytic properties of the native enzyme and the Y115F mutant. Tyrosine 115 is located in domain II of the protein (the xenobiotic substrate binding domain) and is the first residue in this domain to be shown to play a direct role in catalysis. The 1.8-A structure of isoenzyme 3-3 in complex with (9S,10S)-9-(S-glutathionyl)-10-hydroxy-9,10-dihydrophenanthrene, one of the diastereomeric products of the reaction of GSH with phenanthrene 9,10-oxide, indicates that the hydroxyl group of Tyr115 is within hydrogen-bonding distance of the 10-hydroxyl group of the bound product and, by implication, is proximal to the oxirane oxygen of the substrate in the Michaelis complex. Site-specific replacement of Tyr115 with phenylalanine has profoundly different effects on catalysis depending on the type of reaction and whether the rate-limiting step in catalysis is a chemical step or a physical step. Stopped flow measurements of the rate constants for product release and viscosity effects on the steady-state kinetics establish that the rate-limiting step in catalysis with phenanthrene 9,10-oxide (kcat = 0.4 s-1) is probably a chemical one, whereas the physical step of product dissociation (koff) is rate-limiting in the reaction of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (kcat = 20 s-1). The Y115F mutant is severely impaired in catalyzing the addition of GSH to phenanthrene 9,10-oxide (kcat = 0.0044 s-1), evidence that the -OH of Tyr115 provides electrophilic assistance in the epoxide ring opening. In contrast, the Y115F mutant is a better catalyst toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (kcat = 72 s-1) than is the native enzyme. The enhanced rates of product release in the mutant are ascribed to the loss of hydrogen bonds between the -OH of Tyr115 and the side chain -OH and main chain NH of serine 209, interactions that block the channel to the active site or inhibit the segmental motion of the protein.
The effects of acute and therapeutic doses of phenobarbital and sodium salicylate on cytochrome P-450 mixed function oxygenase (EC 1.14.14.1) and glutathione S-transferase (EC 2.5.1.18) activities have been studied in rat brain and compared with those of rat liver. P-450 enzymic activity was assayed by N-demethylation of p-chloro-N-methylaniline and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was used as substrate for glutathione S-transferase activity. The acute effects of a single daily dose of phenobarbital (75 mg/kg/day;i.p.) and sodium salicylate (500 mg/kg/day;i.p.) for 3 days increased cytochrome P-450 as well as glutathione S-transferase in rat liver. But the same doses of both drugs decreased glutathione S-transferase levels in rat brain and increased cytochrome P-450 dependent N-demethylation of p-chloro-N-methylaniline. The therapeutic doses of sodium salicylate (50 mg/kg/day;i.p.) and phenobarbital (10 mg/kg/day;i.p.) daily for 21 days increased cytochrome P-450 in rat liver as well as in brain. The increase in brain glutathione S-transferase by prolonged treatment of phenobarbital was significant compared to the control values.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are members of a multifunctional enzyme superfamily. Forty-one GSTs have been identified in Tribolium castaneum, however, none of the 41 GSTs have been functionally characterized. Here, three delta-class GSTs, TcGSTd1, TcGSTd2 and TcGSTd3, of T. castaneum were successfully cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli. All of the studied GSTs catalyzed the conjugation of reduced glutathione with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). Insecticide treatment showed that the expression of TcGSTd3 and TcGSTd2 were significantly increased after exposure to phoxim and lambda-cyhalothrin, while TcGSTd1 was slightly upregulated only in response to phoxim. A disk diffusion assay showed that overexpression of TcGSTD3, but not TcGSTD1 or TcGSTD2, in E. coli increased resistance to paraquat-induced oxidative stress. RNAi knockdown TcGSTd1 caused metamorphosis deficiencies and reduced fecundity by regulating insulin/TOR signaling pathway mediated ecdysteroid biosynthesis, and knockdown TcGSTd3 led to reduced fertility and a decreased hatch rate of the offspring, likely caused by the reduced antioxidative activity in the reproductive organs. These results indicate that TcGSTd3 and TcGSTd2 may play vital roles in cellular detoxification, whereas TcGSTd1 plays essential roles in normal development of T. castaneum. These delta class GSTs in T. castaneum have been functional differentiated during the evolution. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
The glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) of rat olfactory epithelium have been characterised with regard to sex differences, induction, and developmental regulation, and compared to those of the liver. Olfactory cytosolic GST activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrate was similar in both male and female animals, and there were no differences in subunit profile. Administration of trans-stilbene oxide and beta-naphthoflavone had no effect on olfactory GST activity with CDNB, although phenobarbitone treatment resulted in a small, but significant, increase in activity (130% compared to controls). HPLC analysis of subunit profiles indicated that all three agents induced olfactory subunit 1b and decreased subunit 6. The effect of age (3 to 84 days) on both cytosolic and microsomal CDNB activity was examined. In the liver, cytosolic activity was low at 3 days and climbed steadily to reach maximal levels around 28 days, but microsomal activity was relatively constant at all ages. Olfactory cytosolic activity was similar at all ages; microsomal activity was low until 21 days and then increased to reach a maximum at 56 days. Changes in individual cytosolic subunits were assessed by SDS-PAGE followed by immunoblotting. The significance of these results with regard to putative physiological roles for olfactory GSTs is discussed.
Glutathione S-transferase (GST) from Schistosoma japonicum, which is widely used for the production of fusion proteins in the cytoplasm of Escherichia coli, was employed as a functional fusion module that effects dimer formation of a recombinant protein and confers enzymatic reporter activity at the same time. For this purpose GST was linked via a flexible spacer to the C-terminus of the thiol-protease inhibitor cystatin, whose binding properties for papain were to be studied. The fusion protein was secreted into the bacterial periplasm by means of the OmpA signal peptide to ensure formation of the two disulfide bonds in cystatin. The formation of wrong crosslinks in the oxidizing milieu was prevented by replacing three of the four exposed cysteine residues in GST. Using the tetracycline promoter for tightly controlled gene expression the soluble fusion protein could be isolated from the periplasmic protein fraction. Purification to homogeneity was achieved in one step by means of an affinity column with glutathione agarose. Alternatively, the protein was isolated via streptavidin affinity chromatography after the Strep-tag had been appended to its C terminus. The GST moiety of the fusion protein was enzymatically active and the kinetic parameters were determined using glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrates. Furthermore, strong binding activity for papain was detected in an ELISA. The signal with the cystatin-GST fusion protein was much higher than with cystatin itself, demonstrating an avidity effect due to the dimer formation of GST. The quaternary structure was further confirmed by chemical crosslinking, which resulted in a specific reaction product with twice the molecular size. Thus, engineered GST is suitable as a moderately sized, secretion-competent fusion partner that can confer bivalency to a protein of interest and promote detection of binding interactions even in cases of low affinity.
Contact sensitizers are considered to lead to an immune response characteristic of Th1-type T helper cell activation, and interleukin-2 (IL-2) is a representative cytokine secreted by Th1 cells. In this study, contact sensitivity to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB) was evaluated using hapten-stimulated in vitro IL-2 production by the lymph node cells from mice contact-sensitized to DNCB. IL-2 activity in 48-h culture supernatants was measured by its ability to stimulate IL-2-dependent CTLL-2 cell growth using 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-xyl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium colorimetric assay, expressed as stimulation index. The results showed that DNCB-induced in vitro IL-2 production by the murine lymph node cells was hapten-specific. The peak of in vitro IL-2 production was observed on the 7th day after contact sensitization in mice. There was also a cross-reaction between DNCB and 2,4-dinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (DNBS) in in vitro IL-2 production. Strong dose-response relationships for DNCB-specific in vitro IL-...
In perfused rat liver, hyperosmolarity induces Mrp2- (Kubitz, R., D'urso, D., Keppler, D., and Häussinger, D. (1997) Gastroenterology 113, 1438-1442) and Bsep retrieval (Schmitt, M., Kubitz, R., Lizun, S., Wettstein, M., and Häussinger, D. (2001) Hepatology 33, 509-518) from the canalicular membrane leading to cholestasis. The aim of this study was to elucidate the underlying signaling events. Hyperosmolarity-induced retrieval of Mrp2 and Bsep from the canalicular membrane in perfused rat liver was accompanied by an activating phosphorylation of the Src kinases Fyn and Yes but not of c-Src. Both hyperosmotic transporter retrieval and Src kinase activation were sensitive to apocynin (300 μmol/liter), N-acetylcysteine (NAC; 10 mmol/liter), and SU6656 (1 μmol/liter). Also PP-2 (250 nmol/liter), which inhibited hyperosmotic Fyn but not Yes activation, prevented hyperosmotic transporter retrieval from the canalicular membrane, suggesting that Fyn but not Yes mediates hyperosmotic Bsep and Mrp2 retrieval. Neither hyperosmotic Fyn activation nor Bsep/Mrp2 retrieval was observed in livers from p47(phox) knock-out mice. Hyperosmotic activation of JNKs was sensitive to apocynin and NAC but insensitive to SU6656 and PP-2, indicating that JNKs are not involved in transporter retrieval, as also evidenced by experiments using the JNK inhibitors L-JNKI-1 and SP6001255, respectively. Hyperosmotic transporter retrieval was accompanied by a NAC and Fyn knockdown-sensitive inhibition of biliary excretion of the glutathione conjugate of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in perfused rat liver and of cholyl-L-lysyl-fluorescein secretion into the pseudocanaliculi formed by hepatocyte couplets. Hyperosmolarity triggered an association between Fyn and cortactin and increased the amount of phosphorylated cortactin underneath the canalicular membrane. It is concluded that the hyperosmotic cholestasis is triggered by a NADPH oxidase-driven reactive oxygen species formation that mediates Fyn-dependent retrieval of the Mrp2 and Bsep from the canalicular membrane, which may involve an increased cortactin phosphorylation.
Respiratory sensitization is a concern for occupational and environmental health in consumer product development. Despite international regulatory requirements there is no established protocol for the identification of chemical respiratory sensitizers. New tests should be based on mechanistic understanding and should be preferentially restricted to in vitro assays. The major goal of this study was to investigate the alterations in gene expression of human bronchial epithelial (BEAS-2B) cells after exposure to respiratory sensitizers and respiratory non-sensitizing chemicals, and to identify genes that are able to discriminate between both groups of chemicals. BEAS-2B cells were exposed during 6, 10, and 24h to the respiratory sensitizers ammonium hexachloroplatinate IV, hexamethylene diisocyanate, and trimellitic anhydride, the irritants acrolein and methyl salicylate, and the skin sensitizer 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Overall changes in gene expression were evaluated using Agilent Whole Human Genome 4x 44K oligonucleotide arrays. Fisher Linear Discriminant Analysis was used to obtain a ranking of genes that reflects their potential to discriminate between respiratory sensitizing and respiratory non-sensitizing chemicals. The 10 most discriminative genes were BC042064, A_24_P229834, DOCK11, THC2544911, DLGAP4, NINJ1, PFKM, FLJ10986, IL28RA, and CASP9. Based on the differentially expressed genes, pathway analysis was used to identify possible underlying mechanisms of respiratory sensitization. We demonstrated that in bronchial epithelial cells the canonical PTEN signaling pathway is probably the most specific pathway in the context of respiratory sensitization. Results are indicative that the BEAS-2B cell line can be used as an alternative cell model to screen chemical compounds for their respiratory sensitizing potential.
Abstract In growth room bioassays, four herbicide safeners {BAS-145138: 1-dichloroacetyl-hexa-hydro-3,3,8a-trimethyl-pyrrolo(1,2a)pyrimidin-6(2H)-one, dichlormid: N,N-diallyl-2,2-dichloroacetamide, flurazole: phenylmethyl 2-chloro-4-(trifluoromethyl)-5-thiazole-carboxylate and MG-191: 2-dichloromethyl-2-methyl-1,3-dioxolane} were compared for their effective ness in reducing metazachlor {N-(2,6-dimethylphenyl)-N-(1-pyrazolylmethyl)-chloroacet-amide} injury to maize seedlings. Three of these compounds (BAS-145138, dichlormid and MG-191) and two different compounds (AD-67: N-dichloroacetyl-1-oxa-4-azaspiro-4,5-de-cane and DKA-24: N ,N2-diallyl-N2-dichloroacetylglycineamide) were also evaluated as safeners for acetochlor {N-(2-ethyl-6-methylphenyl)-N-(ethoxymethyl)chloroacetamide} in maize seedlings. Both BAS-145138 and dichlormid were highly effective as safeners for metazachlor and BAS-145138 and DKA-24 were equally good safeners for acetochlor. Metazachlor and acetochlor uptake and metabolism by maize seedlings were enhanced significantly in response to treatment with every safener examined. Rates of metazachlor and acetochlor uptake and metabolism were greatest in seedlings treated with BAS-145138 -the most effective safener. In the absence of any safener treatment, the non-enzymatic conjugation of the herbicides with glutathione either exceeded (metazachlor) or was similar (acetochlor) to enzymatic conjugation. However, the rate of enzymatic conjugation was generally increased by safener treat ment. This was particularly true when the herbicide (14C-labeled) was employed as a conjugation substrate instead of the less specific substrate, CDNB (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene). A significant linear correlation was observed between safener effectiveness and rates of metazachlor metabolism or glutathione S-transferase activity in maize seedlings. However, a similar correlation could not be established for the five compounds evaluated as safeners for acetochlor.
IMS (intermembrane space) SOD1 (Cu/Zn-superoxide dismutase) is inactive in isolated intact rat liver mitochondria and is activated following oxidative modification of its critical thiol groups. The present study aimed to identify biochemical pathways implicated in the regulation of IMS SOD1 activity and to assess the impact of its functional state on key mitochondrial events. Exogenous H 2 O 2 (5 µM) activated SOD1 in intact mitochondria. However, neither H 2 O 2 alone nor H 2 O 2 in the presence of mitochondrial peroxiredoxin III activated SOD1, which was purified from mitochondria and subsequently reduced by dithiothreitol to an inactive state. The reduced enzyme was activated following incubation with the superoxide generating system, xanthine and xanthine oxidase. In intact mitochondria, the extent and duration of SOD1 activation was inversely correlated with mitochondrial superoxide production. The presence of TxrR-1 (thioredoxin reductase-1) was demonstrated in the mitochondrial IMS by Western blotting. Inhibitors of TxrR-1, CDNB (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene) or auranofin, prolonged the duration of H 2 O 2 -induced SOD1 activity in intact mitochondria. TxrR-1 inactivated SOD1 purified from mitochondria in an active oxidized state. Activation of IMS SOD1 by exogenous H 2 O 2 delayed CaCl 2 -induced loss of transmembrane potential, decreased cytochrome c release and markedly prevented superoxide-induced loss of aconitase activity in intact mitochondria respiring at state-3. These findings suggest that H 2 O 2 , superoxide and TxrR-1 regulate IMS SOD1 activity reversibly, and that the active enzyme is implicated in protecting vital mitochondrial functions.
The authors, as well as others have shown that band 3 red cell membrane protein (AE1) displays a marked tendency to become tyrosine phosphorylated in G-RBCs after -SH group oxidation or GSH depletion by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) or diamide [12, 13] . We have also demonstrated that Syk tyrosine kinase strongly increases its affinity to oxidized AE1 and induces its selective phosphorylation [13] . Hyper-phosphorylated AE1 showed a manifest tendency to cluster, indicating a change in its interactions with the cytoskeletal network. Furthermore, abnormal AE1 tyrosine phosphorylation has been observed in a number of red cell disorders [14] .
[6,7-3H(N)]Dexamethasone 21-mesylate in methanol with a specific activity of 48.9 Ci/mmol (1 Ci = 37 GBq) and dexamethasone 21-mesylate powder (unlabeled) were obtained from New England Nuclear. Sephadex G-100, DEAESephacel, protein-A Sepharose CL-6B, and CNBr-activated Sepharose-4B were obtained from Pharmacia. GSH, Smethyl-GSH and dexamethasone were obtained from Sigma and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene from Aldrich. Acrylamide and other reagents used for gel electrophoresis were obtained from Bio-Rad.
Enzymatic activities were measured using 1.0 mM 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 1.0 mM GSH as substrates. Absorbance at 343 nm was measured at 25°C in 0.1 M sodium phosphate, pH 6.5 (10).
Abstract To determine selenium′s effects on glutathione S-transferase gene expression and enzyme activity, weanling rats were fed a selenium-deficient diet, or the same diet supplemented with 0.1 (control) or 2.0 mg selenium/kg diet as sodium selenite, for 91 days. Consumption of either the selenium-deficient or high selenium diet increased activity of glutathione S-transferase, measured with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate, compared to the control diet. Transcription of genes for glutathione S-transferase subunits was unaffected by selenium intake. Steady state levels of mRNA for glutathione S-transferase subunits were affected variably by changes in selenium intake, depending upon the tissue and subunit examined. These results suggest that the biological effects of selenium may be due in part to its regulation of gene expression for glutathione S-transferase family enzymes.
Cystine was transported into human erythrocytes in the presence of tertiary-butyl hydroperoxide (t-BH) or 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). The transport rate of cystine was dependent on the extracellular concentration of t-BH or CDNB, and on the incubation time. According to Dowex-1 column chromatography, the transported cystine was incorporated into fractions of glutathione disulfide (GSSG) and glutathione-S (GSH-S) conjugate. The transport of cystine was competitively inhibited by DL-homocystine and alanine. The inhibition rates by DL-homocystine and alanine were 75% and 68%, with similar Ki values of 0.7 mM and 0.6 mM, respectively. It is suggested that cystine transport is induced for glutathione synthesis when human erythrocytes are exposed to oxidative stresses. This transport system of cystine may serve as an emergency function in human erythrocytes.
AbstractContext: The antidepressant drug fluoxetine (FLU) is considered in the group of selective serotonine re-uptake inhibitors. Its distribution in brain and binding to human brain glutathione S-transferase-π (GST-π) have been shown. FLU can cross blood brain barrier and placenta, accumulate in fetus and may cause congenital malformations. Objective: To elucidate the interaction of placental GST-π with FLU. Materials and methods: First, concentration-dependent inhibition of human placental GST-π was evaluated by using different FLU concentrations and then 0.3125, 0.625, 1.25, 2.5 and 5 mM FLU concentrations were chosen and tested while keeping GSH concentration constant and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) concentration varied and vice versa. The data were evaluated with different kinetic models and Statistica 9.00 for Windows. Results: The Vm, at variable [CDNB] (142 ± 16 U/mg protein) was 3 times higher than the Vm obtained at variable [GSH] (49 ± 4 U/mg protein). On the other hand, the Km for CDNB...
When rats were fed a diet containing 0.4% (w/w) butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT), glutathione (GSH) S-transferase activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) increased approximately 3-fold in the liver. Immunotitration studies using the antibodies raised against rat liver GSH S-transferase B and GSH S-transferase A and C indicated that the increase in GSH S-transferase activity was probably due to de novo protein synthesis. Since some forms of rat liver GSH S-transferases express GSH peroxidase II activity, a concomitant increase in GSH peroxidase II was expected. However, GSH peroxidase II activity in the liver of BHT-treated rats remained unchanged. Gel filtration of supernatant fractions from livers of control and BHT-treated rats, followed by isoelectric focusing, indicated that BHT induced the activity of hepatic GSH S-transferases, without any apparent effect on GSH peroxidase II activity.
Glutathione transferases (GSTs) make up a superfamily that is involved in the cellular defense against various reactive compounds by catalyzing the conjugation of glutathione to electrophilic centra. Members of this family have also been implicated in different facets of biological signaling. The gene encoding human GST P1-1 is polymorphic, resulting in variant amino acid residues in positions 105 and 114. The role of the polymorphism in the active-site residue 105 on enzyme stability and activity with various substrates was investigated. A valine instead of an isoleucine in position 105 decreased the thermal stability of the enzyme. The effect on enzyme activity was dependent on the substrate and reaction studied. With some substrates tested, such as carcinogenic diolepoxides derived from polyaromatic hydrocarbons, GST P1-1/Val105 displayed the highest catalytic efficiency. In contrast, with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, the GST P1-1/Ile105 showed higher activity. Residue 105 was mutated to alanine and tryptophan to investigate the role of size and hydrophobicity of residue 105 on enzyme properties. Generally, a smaller amino acid in position 105 gave increased activity with large substrates. Clearly, residue 105 of GST P1-1 helps to determine the substrate selectivity of the enzyme. In addition, more voluminous amino acids in position 105 increase the thermal stability of the enzyme. GST P1-1 is believed to contribute to the development of drug resistance in cancer cells. The affinity of GST P1-1 for TER 117, designed to inhibit GST P1-1 in tumors, was not affected by the variability in position 105. TER 117 was found to be a potent inhibitor of glyoxalase I as well.The cDNA encoding GST A3-3 was isolated from a placental cDNA library. GST A3-3 was heterologously expressed, purified and found to catalyze efficiently the double-bond isomerization of Δ5-androstene-3,17-dione and Δ5-pregnene-3,20-dione, reactions taking place in the biosynthesis of the steroid hormones testosterone and progesterone, respectively. GST A3-3 was found to be selectively expressed in steroidogenic tissues, suggesting that this enzyme is involved in the production of steroid hormones. The presence of both the hydroxyl group of the active-site tyrosine 9 and the thiolate form of glutathione, acting as a cofactor, is important for high double-bond isomerase activity. A leucine in position 111 appears to have a major role in productive binding of the steroid substrate but also residues F10 and A216 are determinants for the high isomerase activity. GST A2-2 is a poor catalyst of the steroid double-bond isomerization of Δ5-androstene-3,17-dione as compared to GST A3-3, despite 88% sequence identity. GST A2-2 was redesigned to a highly efficient double-bond isomerase by mutating five active-site residues to the corresponding residues of GST A3-3. This demonstrates the functional plasticity of GSTs and the power of a rational approach to redesign of these enzymes.
GST isoforms have been extensively studied in adult tissues but little is known about the composition and levels of these enzymes in fetal tissues. As part of our ongoing studies to determine the potential role of metabolic enzymes in mediating the differential susceptibility of different strains of mice to lung tumorigenesis following in utero exposure to 3-methylcholanthrene (MC), we screened for GST enzyme activity and for expression of the individual GSTalpha, pi, mu, and theta isoforms in murine fetal lung and liver tissues isolated from the parental strains and F1 crosses between C57BL/6 (B6) and BALB/c (C) mice. Using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as a substrate, we found that treatment with MC had no effect on the levels of GST enzyme activity in either the fetal lung or liver in either of the two parental strains or their F1 crosses. Low levels of expression of each of the four enzymes were detected by Western blotting in both fetal lung and liver tissues in all four strains. A statistically significant 3.5-fold induction was observed only for GSTmu in the fetal lung of the parental strain of BALB/c mice 48 h after exposure to MC. None of the other enzymes showed any significant differences in the levels of expression following exposure to MC. Although strain-specific differences in the expression of the GSTs that were independent of MC treatment were observed, they could not account for the differences previously observed in either the Ki-ras mutational spectrum or lung tumor incidence in the different strains of mice. Similar results were obtained when the maternal metabolism of MC was assayed in liver microsomal preparations. The results are consistent with previous studies showing low levels and poor inducibility of phase II enzymes during gestation, and demonstrate for the first time that all four of the major GST enzymes are expressed in fetal tissues. While the high inducibility of activating enzymes, such as Cyp1a1, and low, uninducible levels of phase II conjugating enzymes probably account for the high susceptibility of the fetus to transplacentally induced tumor formation, the results also suggest that factors other than metabolism may account for the strain-specific differences in susceptibility to carcinogen-mediated lung tumor induction following in utero exposure to chemical carcinogens.
Abstract The present study aimed to determine the effects of cigarette smoke on the regulation of hepatic cytochrome P450 (CYP) and glutathione S-transferase (GST) enzymes in male BALB/c mice exposed to nose-only cigarette smoke for 4 days. There were no significant increases in serum liver injury markers (alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase) or oxidative stress (total antioxidant capacity, malondialdehyde, and glutathione disulfide/reduced glutathione) following cigarette smoke exposure, but malondialdehyde was elevated in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid of smoke-exposed mice. Additionally, the hepatic microsomal protein levels of Cyp1a and Cyp2b, and the activities of ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase, pentoxyresorufin O-depenylase, and chlorzoxazone 6-hydrxylase, were elevated in smoke-exposed mice. Interestingly, the hepatic activities of GST toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, and ethacrynic acid, but not cumene hydroperoxide were enhanced by cigarette smoke exposure, which was consistent with the increased expression levels of mu- and pi-class GSTs, but not alpha-class GSTs, observed in immunoblot analyses. These findings indicate that the short-term inhalation of cigarette smoke induces drug-metabolizing enzymes such as CYP1A, CYP2B, and mu/pi-class GSTs in the absence of hepatic injury and oxidative stress. Furthermore, smoking may alter hepatic drug metabolism, as well as the disposition and toxicity of xenobiotics, including some therapeutic drugs and cigarette smoke constituents.
The cytosolic glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are dimeric enzymes that are responsible for the conjugation of glutathione to an electrophilic center of a variety of lipophilic compounds. The purpose of the present study was to characterize the GSTs of Daphnia magna with respect to enzyme multiplicity, molecular weight, isoelectric points, and immunochemical distinction and to determine the inducibility of these enzymes by the prototypical mammalian GST inducer, phenobarbital. GSTs were purified from crude cystosols prepared from daphnids by glutathione-sepharose affinity chromatography. SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of the affinity purified GSTs revealed the presence of multiple subunits with molecular weights ranging from 26.9 to 30.2 kDa. Preparative electrofocusing separated GST activity into three major fractions having approximate isoelectric points of 4.5, 4.8 and 5.6. All of the catalytically active fractions contained a single protein band of the same molecular weight (30.2 kDa) during SDS-PAGE. A monoclonal antibody, prepared against the affinity-purified GST proteins, recognized three distinct proteins separated during analytical-scale isoelectric focusing (pI 4.6, 4.7 and 4.8). These proteins may represent a class of GSTs distinct from the GST having a pI of 5.6. Treatment of daphnids with phenobarbital elevated both GST catalytic activity and immunodetectable protein. These results demonstrate that multiple immunochemically related proteins of the same molecular weight but varying isoelectric points are responsible for most of the GST catalytic activity with the substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) from two populations (Tehran and Shiraz) of the sunn pest Eurygaster integriceps Puton (Heteroptera: Scutellaridae) were characterized through in vitro colorimetric assays. GSTs showed higher activity peaks at pH 5-6. The Km-values for GSTs were different between populations in which Shiraz population had higher Vmax and lower Km values when using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrate (and a fixed concentration of reduced glutathione—GSH). In addition, Native- PAGE electrophoresis showed a higher isoenzymatic patterns for Shiraz population compared eith Tehran one. These results provide evidence of the involvement of enhanced GST activity as an additional organophosphorus-resistant mechanism in at least some sunn pest populations from Iran. The sunn pest (Eurygaster integriceps Puton) (Heteroptera: Scutelleridae), is one of the most serious insect pests of wheat and barley in the wide area of the Near and Middle East, West Asia, and many of the new independent states of central Asia. It also is found in Eastern and South Europe and North Africa (Kazzazi et al., 2005; Add Javaheri name too). This insect has a monovoltine life cycle (one generation per year) with two different phases. The first phase (growth and development) occurs in the wheat field during the spring, whereas the second phase (diapause as an adult) usually occurs in the mountain area during the summer and winter. This pest feeds on various structures of the host plants e.g. leaves, stems and grains and as a consequence the nature of the injury that they cause is also variable. During feeding they enter their stylets into the host plant, inject their watery saliva which containing digestive enzymes, and sucking up the liquefied cells' contents (Boyd et al., 2002). Feeding punctures appeared as minute darkish spots on the seeds. Sunn pest feeding on different stages of developing seeds causes quantitative and qualitative damage because they inject enzymes into the grain that degrade gluten protein and cause rapid relaxation of dough which results in the production of bread with poor volume and texture. Most of economic loss attributed to this species is caused by nymphal and adult injury to the wheat kernels so that yield loss because of sunn pest outbreaks in some area is 100%. In Iran alone more than one million hectare of wheat field is sprayed with fenitrothione against this pest. Since 1970's fenitrothion and sometime Cpermethrin, extensively used in order to control this insect in many countries. As a consequence of the intensive use of these pesticides, there are some complaints about the insecticide
To examine the effects of ethanol (EtOH) on rat liver glutathione S-transferase (GST, E.C. 2.5.1.18), a key phase 2 biotransformation enzyme, an in vitro system consisting of rat hepatocytes co-cultured with rat epithelial cells derived from primitive biliary duct cells was used. Cells were either untreated or treated for 10 days with 0.1 or 0.4% EtOH. Cytosolic GST activities were assayed spectrophotometrically using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) or 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB) as substrates. When cultures were exposed to 0.4% EtOH the total GST activity towards the substrate CDNB increased by 35%. However, the activity of GSTs towards DCNB did not increase significantly in the cells treated with this concentration of EtOH. Affinity chromatography followed by reversed phase HPLC was used to separate the various GST subunits. EtOH was found to affect the GST subunit pattern. Total GST proteins increased after exposure to 0.4% EtOH; this was largely due to a three-fold and 2.5-fold increase in the GST mu-class subunits 3 and 4 respectively. Since EtOH induces GST expression in liver parenchymal cells, particularly the mu-class GSTs, its addition as a solvent to cultured hepatocytes or its use in vivo may result in important changes in the metabolism and toxicity of the xenobiotics under study.
Abstract The electrochemical reductive cleavage of carbon–chlorine bond in 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene at gold electrodes is analyzed from a mechanistic point of view. The initial electron transfer forms the radical anion of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene which subsequently undergoes bond cleavage following an EC mechanism. At low scan rates, the reduction is under the kinetic control by the chemical step, while the voltammetric wave becomes reversible at high scan rates and a mixed chemical-diffusion control is observed at intermediate scan rates. The cleavage rate constant of the carbon–chlorine bond has been deduced using the voltammetric data in conjunction with convolution analysis and the results have been verified by simulating the experimental voltammogram under the frame work of EC mechanism.
It has been suggested that Sj26, a Schistosoma japonicum GSH S-transferase, is the molecular target of the antischistosomal drug praziquantel (McTigue et al., 1995, J. Mol. Biol. 246, 21-27). We tested this hypothesis by asking two questions: (1) does praziquantel inhibit Sj26 activity with a variety of model substrates; and (2) does praziquantel prevent the binding to Sj26 of physiologically relevant nonsubstrate ligands? High concentrations of praziquantel (up to 500 microM) did not inhibit Sj26 activity using the model substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 3,4-dichloronitrobenzene, or ethacrynic acid. Sj26 had no measurable activity with two higher molecular weight GSH S-transferase substrates: 5-androsten-3,17-dione and sulfobromophthalein. We also assessed the ability of praziquantel to prevent the inhibition of Sj26 by a series of S-alkyl-GSH conjugates. The half-maximal inhibitory concentrations of S-hexyl-GSH, S-octyl-GSH, and S-decyl-GSH (10, 10, and 5 microM, respectively) for Sj26 were not affected by up to 500 microM praziquantel. This suggests that praziquantel does not compete with GSH for Sj26 binding. In order to determine if praziquantel disrupts binding of nonsubstrate ligands to Sj26, we tested praziquantel for its ability to prevent the inhibition of Sj26 by both bilirubin and hematin. Praziquantel (100 or 500 microM) did not alter inhibition of Sj26 by 3 microM bilirubin, but partially protected Sj26 against inhibition by hematin (0.1 to 2.0 microM). Interestingly, in a similar reaction, 100 microM S-methyl-GSH protected Sj26 from inhibition equally as well as praziquantel. Bovine serum albumin (5 microM) completely protected against inhibition by 1 microM hematin. These results indicate that although praziquantel partially protects Sj26 from hematin inhibition, this protection is neither specific to praziquantel nor physiologically relevant. Our results do not support the hypothesis that the mechanism of praziquantel action involves competitive inhibition of Sj26 catalytic activity or blocking binding of nonsubstrate ligands. We can, therefore, find no evidence that Sj26 is the molecular target of the antischistosomal activity of praziquantel.
Setaria digitata is a filarial worm of the cattle used as a model system for antifilarial drug screening, due to its similarity to the human filarial parasites Wuchereria bancrofti and Brugia malayi. Since filarial glutathione S-transferase (GST) is a good biochemical target for antifilarial drug development, a study has been undertaken for the biochemical characterization of GST from S. digitata. Cytosolic fraction was separated from the crude S.digitata worm homogenate by ultracentrifugation at 100,000 g and subjected to ammonium sulfate precipitation followed by affinity chromatography using GSH-agarose column. The kinetic parameters K (m) and V (max) values with respect to GSH were 0.45 mM and 0.105 μmol min(-1) mL(-1) respectively. With respect to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, the K (m) and V (max) values were 1.21 and 0.117 μmol min(-1) mL(-1) respectively. The effect of temperature and pH on GST enzyme activity was studied. The protein retained its enzyme activity between 0°C and 40°C, beyond which it showed a decreasing tendency, and at 80°C, the activity was lost completely. The enzyme activity was varying with change in pH, and the maximum GST activity was observed at pH 7.5. Gel filtration chromatographic studies indicated that the protein has a native molecular mass of about 54 kDa. The single band of GST subunit appeared in sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis was found to have molecular mass of ∼27 kDa. This shows that cytosolic S. digitata GST protein is homodimeric in nature.
1. Gavage administration of the natural flavonoids tangeretin, chrysin, apigenin, naringenin, genistein and quercetin for 2 consecutive weeks to the female rat resulted in differential effects on selected phase 1 and 2 enzymes in liver, colon and heart as well as antioxidant enzymes in red blood cells (RBC). 2. Glutathione transferase (GST) activity assayed by use of the substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was significantly induced by apigenin, genistein and tangeretin in the heart but not in colon or liver. 3. In RBC chrysin, quercetin and genistein significantly decreased the activity of glutathione reductase (GR), catalase (CAT) and glutathione peroxidase (GPx), whereas superoxide dismutase (SOD) was only significantly decreased by genistein. 4. The oxidative status of the animal, measured as plasma malondialdehyde, revealed that chrysin, quercetin, genistein, and beta-naphthoflavone (BNF) significantly protected against, 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo [4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP)-induced oxidative stress. Hepatic PhIP-DNA adduct formation was not affected by any of the administered flavonoids, whereas PhIP-DNA adduct formation in colon was slightly, but significantly, inhibited by quercetin, genistein, tangeretin and BNF. 5. The observed effects of chrysin, quercetin and genistein on antioxidant enzymes, concurrently with a protection against oxidative stress, suggest a feedback mechanism on the antioxidant enzymes triggered by the flavonoid antioxidants. 6. Despite the use of high flavonoid doses, which by far exceed the human exposure levels, the effect on drug metabolizing and antioxidant enzymes was still very minor. The role of singly administered flavonoids in the protection against cancer and heart disease is thus expected to be limited.
First experimental results on the aerobic biological degradation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (1-Cl-2,4-DNB) both with batch cultures in flasks and with batch cultures and a continous culture in a fluidized bed reactor are presented. A mixed culture isolated from a contaminated soil was used. For the degradation experiments in reactor the mixed culture was immobilized on a polyurethane (PU) carrier with incorporated activated carbon. The mixed culture is capable of degrading 1-CL-2,4-DNB cometabolic in the presence of an additional carbon and nitrogen source by reduction to 2-chloro-5- and 4-chloro-3-nitroaniline as the first degradation step. Depending on the concentration in flasks a degradation of 100% regarding the initial concentration was achieved within 1 to 2 days and a degradation of 33 to 73% with regard to the evolution of chloride ions was achieved within 4 days. In the fluidized bed reactor a degradation of 42 to 66% under dechlorination was achieved with a load of 50 mg/L and a contact time up to 4 days.The results can be seen as an encouraging starting-point for further degradation experiments.
The genome of cultivated wheat is hexaploid, and in consequence a large number of glutathione S-transferase (GSTs, EC 2.5.1.18) isozymes is expected in that organism. Wheat GST subunits were first analyzed by reverse-phase high performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC). In root and shoot tissues, subunits 4, 8, and 9 were constitutively expressed whereas subunits 2, 3, and 5 were inducible by the herbicide safener naphthalic anhydride (NA). Significant differences were observed, however, between the distributions of these six major subunits in roots and shoots. A major GST isozyme was purified from the shoots of plants treated by NA. A combination of ammonium sulphate precipitation, hydrophobic interaction chromatography (HIC) and affinity chromatography resulted in purification with an apparent yield of 4.6% and a 48-fold increase in specific activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). Analysis by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) showed a single band at 24.5 kDa. Molecular mass estimated by nondenaturing PAGE was 49.5 kDa. These results suggest that the enzyme exists as a dimer. A pI of 5.2 was determined by native isoelectric focusing (IEF). Analysis by 2-D electrophoresis showed a single spot, with a pI of 5.8-5.9. However, further analysis by RP-HPLC revealed that the two subunits were different. They were characterized and identified by electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (ESI-MS) as subunits 2 and 3, molecular masses 24924 ± 3 and 24958 ± 5 Da, respectively. Therefore, GST(2-3) is apparently a heterodimer consisting of subunits 2 and 3. Apparent K M values were 424 μM for CDNB and 228 μM for glutathione (GSH). GST(2-3) metabolized the herbicide fluorodifen, and a K M of 22 μM was determined for the herbicide.
The effects of epidermal growth factor (EGF) (10 ng/ml) and insulin (100 nM) on the expression of glutathione S-transferases (GSTs), especially the GST-P form (GST 7-7), were examined in primary cultured rat hepatocytes in serum-free medium. On culture with EGF and insulin, the GST activities towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene were transiently decreased on day 2 to 10% of those of freshly isolated hepatocytes and then increased to 60 to 100% of those of freshly isolated cells on day 4. Western blot analysis of GSTs revealed that GST-P, which is not present in freshly isolated hepatocytes, was markedly induced and that GST subunits 3 and 4 of the Mu class also increased after addition of EGF and/or insulin, while the subunits 1 and 2 of the Alpha class disappeared. Northern blot analysis showed that on addition of EGF and insulin the level of GST-P mRNA was also elevated and expressions of the nuclear oncogenes c-jun and c-fos were enhanced. These results suggest that the enhanced expression of GST-P induced by EGF or insulin in primary cultured rat hepatocytes might be regulated by JUN and FOS proteins.
The present study was designed to investigate the effect of partial (two-thirds) hepatectomy (PH) on hepatic and intestinal glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) activities. A significant decrease of cytosolic hepatic GSTs activity was observed after the PH. The lowest value of hepatic GSTs was obtained 48 h after the surgery. On the other hand, intestinal GSTs activities increased after PH, reaching the highest values 48 h after the hepatic lobes resection. The hepatic GSTs activities diminution was attributed, in part, to the high accumulation of bile acids in the liver tissue of hepatectomized rats, also demonstrated by a higher retention of [14C] taurocholate. The kinetic analysis performed with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrate showed two sets of parameters, indicating the presence of isozymes of high and low affinities. Vmax1 and Vmax2 were lower in PH rats suggesting a non competitive inhibition mechanism. The inhibitory effect of bile acids decreased during liver regeneration process of hepatectomized rats disappearing at 7 days after PH. Conversely, in non regenerating rats (GABA treated) the inhibitory mechanism was still observed at 7 days after the surgery. The increase of intestinal GSTs activities (isozymes of high and low affinities) was attributed to the presence of polyamines, mainly putrescine, produced during the hepatic regeneration process. In this regard, it was showed that GABA treatment, which inhibits polyamine synthesis, completely abolished the increase on intestinal GSTs activities. Finally, the treatment with exogenous putrescine showed that in hepatectomized and sham-operated rats, the polyamine induced GSTs activities in both tissues. In PH rats, the putrescine dependent increase of hepatic GSTs was masked by the inhibitory effect of bile acids. In addition, a summation effect of endogenous and exogenous putrescine was probably the reason of the induction of intestinal GSTs after PH. The GSH/GSSG ratio did not change during the treatments, as well as the microsomal GST activity of both tissues. The work points out the hypothetical detoxification power of the intestine during the hepatocellular insufficiency which follows a two-thirds hepatectomy.
To determine if non-selenium-dependent glutathione peroxidase (Non-Se GSH-Px) activity is present in rat lung, we fractionated rat lung soluble fractions from rats fed a selenium-deficient or control diet and measured glutathione peroxidase activity with both cumene hydroperoxide and hydrogen peroxide as substrates. We also measured glutathione S-transferase (GSH S-transferase) activity in the fractions with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate. Non-Se GSH-Px activity was present (about 34% of total GSH-Px activity), and the peak present in the gel filtration chromatogram coeluted with the GSH S-transferase peak. We then measured GSH S-transferase activity in lung-soluble fractions from rats exposed to room air or 85% O2 for 5 days. Lung GSH S-transferase activity was increased in the oxygen-exposed animals when compared to the air-exposed controls. The increase in GSH S-transferase activity could represent the induction of lung non-Se GSH-Px activity.
Three cationic glutathione S-transferase forms isolated from rat liver were characterized as dimers that originated from different combinations of two subunit types, Ya and Yc. The cationic forms were purified using lysyl glutathione affinity matrices and were chromatographically resolved from anionic glutathione S-transferases that contain Yb subunits. The three classes of cationic transferase exhibited similar specific activities with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as a substrate, all forms cross-reacted with antibodies to glutathione S-transferase B, and all had comparable secondary structures and tryptophan fluorescence properties. In spite of those similarities, the Yc-containing forms were clearly distinguishable from Ya forms on the basis of characteristic differences in circular dichroic patterns associated with their aromatic side chains. All cationic transferases bound bilirubin with stoichiometric ratios of 1 mol/dimeric protein molecule, but discrete differences in mode of binding were ascribed to forms containing Ya subunits as compared to Yc dimers. Binding to Yc forms was of lower affinity and may be associated with the catalytic region of the protein since glutathione effectively displaced bilirubin from the Yc component.
The possible maternal hepatic and reproductive effects of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) were assessed in rats given 0, 36, 120, 360, and 1200 mg/kg/day of TCB on Days 9–13 of gestation. The animals were sacrificed on Day 14 of pregnancy. Maternal deaths (29 rats, 66 rats) were recorded in the 360 and 1200 mg/kg/day treatment groups and body weight gain was significantly decreased in the 360 mg/kg/day TCB group. Maternal liver weight, liver/body weight ratio, and hepatic microsomal protein content were unaffected by TCB treatment. Although Day 14 NADPH-cytochrome c reductase activity was affected only at 360 mg/kg/day TCB, the maternal hepatic microsomal cytochrome P-450 content was significantly increased by administration of both 120 and 360 mg/kg/day of TCB. Hepatic microsomal aminopyrine N-demethylase, ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase, and UDP-glucuronyl transferase activity towards p-nitrophenol were also increased at 120 and 360 mg/kg TCB. Glutathione S-transferase activity to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 1,2 dichloro-4-nitrobenzene were both increased by pretreatment with TCB. Although pretreatment with 360 mg/kg/day TCB did not increase resorptions, embryolethality, or teratogenicity, embryonic development was significantly retarded by all four growth criteria used (head length, crown-rump length, somite number, and protein content).
We have isolated the human gene and cDNA that encode the fourth member of the Mu class glutathione S-transferases (GSTs). The complete gene sequence (GenBank M96233) and the cDNA sequence (M96234) are reported and named GSTM4. The gene, located on chromosome 1, is comprised of eight exons with an organization similar to that of other Mu class genes. GSTM4 differs from a partial gene sequence, termed GSTmu2 (Taylor, J. B., Oliver, J., Sherrington, R., and Pemble, S. E. (1991) Biochem. J. 274, 587-593), in exons 3 through 5 by only 11 nucleotides within introns. The cDNA for GSTM4 was isolated from a library derived from the cervical carcinoma cell line, HeLa. Northern blots demonstrate the presence of GSTM4 mRNA in human heart, placenta, lung, brain, liver, skeletal muscle, pancreas, testis, cerebral cortex, uterus, ovary, a lymphoblastoid cell line, and four carcinoma cell lines. The deduced amino acid sequence of GSTM4 is 87% (GSTM1), 83% (GSTM2), and 70% (GSTM3) identical to the previously described human Mu class GSTs. The polypeptide encoded by the GSTM4 cDNA, produced in a bacterial expression system, conjugates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene to GSH with a specific activity of 1.39 +/- 0.21 mumol/min/mg.
GST, glutathione S-transferase; CDNB, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene; GSH, glutathione; DEE, diethylester; TER 117, ␥-Lglutamyl-(S-benzyl)-L-cysteinyl-D-phenylglycine; MG-SG, the hemithioacetal formed between glutathione and methylglyoxal.
Glutathione-S-transferases (GSTs) are one of the key enzymes that mediate phase II of cellular detoxification. The aim of our study was a comprehensive characterization of GSTs in zebrafish (Danio rerio) as an important vertebrate model species frequently used in environmental research. A detailed phylogenetic analysis of GST superfamily revealed 27 zebrafish gst genes. Further insights into the orthology relationships between human and zebrafish GSTs/Gsts were obtained by the conserved synteny analysis. Expression of gst genes in six tissues (liver, kidney, gills, intestine, brain and gonads) of adult male and female zebrafish was determined using qRT-PCR. Functional characterization was performed on 9 cytosolic Gst enzymes after overexpression in E. coli and subsequent protein purification. Enzyme kinetics was measured for GSH and a series of model substrates. Our data revealed ubiquitously high expression of gstp, gstm (except in liver), gstr1, mgst3a and mgst3b, high expression of gsto2 in gills and ovaries, gsta in intestine and testes, gstt1a in liver, and gstz1 in liver, kidney and brain. All zebrafish Gsts catalyzed the conjugation of GSH to model GST substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and monochlorobimane (MCB), apart from Gsto2 and Gstz1 that catalyzed GSH conjugation to dehydroascorbate (DHA) and dichloroacetic acid (DCA), respectively. Affinity toward CDNB varied from 0.28 mM (Gstp2) to 3.69 mM (Gstm3), while affinity toward MCB was in the range of 5 μM (Gstt1a) to 250 μM (Gstp1). Affinity toward GSH varied from 0.27 mM (Gstz1) to 4.45 mM (Gstt1a). Turnover number for CDNB varied from 5.25s(-1) (Gstt1a) to 112s(-1) (Gstp2). Only Gst Pi enzymes utilized ethacrynic acid (ETA). We suggest that Gstp1, Gstp2, Gstt1a, Gstz1, Gstr1, Mgst3a and Mgst3b have important role in the biotransformation of xenobiotics, while Gst Alpha, Mu, Pi, Zeta and Rho classes are involved in the crucial physiological processes. In summary, this study provides the first comprehensive analysis of GST superfamily in zebrafish, presents new insight into distinct functions of individual Gsts, and offers methodological protocols that can be used for further verification of interaction of environmental contaminants with fish Gsts.
Mouse glutathione S-transferase GST YfYf (an orthologue of GST P or 7-7 in the rat and of GST pi in the human) was found to have a subunit Mr of 24,500 and cross-reacted with anti-(rat GST YfYf). N-Terminal analysis showed a close similarity to the rat, human and bovine orthologues. On isoelectric focusing the native enzyme had a pI of 8.3 and a pI of 7.3 in the presence of urea. Initial-rate studies with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and GSH as substrates and inhibition studies with the product of the enzyme-catalysed conjugation of CDNB and GSH, S-(2,4-dinitrophenyl)glutathione, indicated a rapid-equilibrium random mechanism for the enzyme. The diuretic drug ethacrynic acid was found to be simultaneously a competitive inhibitor and an uncompetitive activator of the enzyme (with CDNB as the substrate whose concentration was varied). By using a computer simulation program (EKPLOT) a model was developed that would explain the experimental data. It is proposed that ethacrynic acid can compete with CDNB at the active site but simultaneously bind to an allosteric site on the enzyme, causing an elevation in the Vmax. for the conjugation of CDNB and GSH. The implications of such an activation mechanism for an enzyme potentially conjugating a range of xenobiotic compounds are discussed.
The Drosophila glutathione S-transferase D27 (GST D27) has been purified and characterized after direct expression of the intronless gstD27 gene in E. coli. The GST D27 has both conjugation activity against the common substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and peroxidase activity against cumene hydroperoxide. Its pH optimum is 8.5 in 0.125 M bis-tris propane buffer at 22 degrees C. It is more thermal labile than the human GST121. The GST D27 has two tyrosines at positions 3 and 4. Both of them appear to be important but neither of them is essential for the enzyme activity. Thus, other residues may also participate in catalysis. The two tyrosines of GST D27 could also be important in binding to GSH or S-hexyl GSH. Results from in vitro biochemical analyses were confirmed by the in vivo activity-based CDNB growth inhibition analyses. Our results clearly indicate that the Drosophila GST D isozymes are different from any of the known mammalian GSTs.
The ability of the liver, small intestine, and kidney to synthesize and subsequently eliminate dinitrophenyl-S-glutathione (DNP-SG), a substrate for multidrug resistance-associated protein 2 (Mrp2), was assessed in rats treated with glucagon-like peptide 2 (GLP-2, 12 μg/100 g b.wt. s.c. every 12 h for 5 consecutive days). An in vivo perfused jejunum model with simultaneous bile and urine collection was used. A single intravenous dose of 30 μmol/kg b.wt. 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was administered, and its conjugate, DNP-SG, and dinitrophenyl cysteinyl glycine (DNP-CG), resulting from the action of γ-glutamyltransferase on DNP-SG, were determined in bile, intestinal perfusate, and urine by high-performance liquid chromatography. Tissue content of DNP-SG was also assessed in liver, intestine, and kidneys. Biliary excretion of DNP-SG+DNP-CG was decreased in GLP-2 rats with respect to controls. In contrast, their intestinal excretion was substantially increased, whereas urinary elimination was not affected. Western blot and real-time polymerase chain reaction studies revealed preserved levels of Mrp2 protein and mRNA in liver and renal cortex and a significant increase in intestine in response to GLP-2 treatment. Tissue content of DNP-SG detected 5 min after CDNB administration was decreased in liver, increased in intestine, and unchanged in kidney in GLP-2 versus control group, consistent with GLP-2-induced down-regulation of expression of glutathione transferase (GST) Mu in liver and up-regulation of GST-Alpha in intestine at both protein and mRNA levels. In conclusion, GLP-2 induced selective changes in hepatic and intestinal disposition of a common GST and Mrp2 substrate administered systemically that could be of pharmacological or toxicological relevance under therapeutic treatment conditions.
Liver and gills of roach (Rutilus rutilus) and silver carp (Hypophthalmichthys molitrix) were examined for glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) contents and their substrate specificity and capacity to biotransform microcystin-LR (MC-LR). GSTs and other glutathione (GSH) affine proteins were purified using a GSH-agarose matrix and separated by anionic chromatography (AEC). Substrate specificities were determined photometrical for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB), 4-nitrobenzyl chloride (pNBC) and ethacrynic acid (ETHA). Biotransformation rate of MC-LR was determined by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Roach exhibited different hepatic and branchial GST activities for used substrates (DNB, pNBC and DCNB) compared to silver carp but not for ethacrynic acid. It suggests that, both fish species have similar amount of pi and/or alpha class, which were the dominant GST classes in liver and gills. Gills of both fish species contained a higher number of GST isoenzymes, but with lower activities and ability of MC-LR biotransformation than livers. GST isoenzymes from roach had higher activity to biotransform MC-LR (conversion rate ranging up to 268 ng MC-LR min(-1) mL(-1) hepatic enzyme) than that isolated from silver carp. Without any prior contact to MC-LR or another GST inducer, roach seems to be better equipped for microcystin biotransformation than silver carp.
Kinetics of the reaction between 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and aniline was studied in mixtures of 1-ethyl-3-methylimidazolium ethylsulfate ([EMIM][EtSO4]) with methanol, chloroform, and dimethylsulfoxide at 25°C. Single-parameter correlations of log kA versus normalized polarity parameter (ENT), hydrogen-bond acceptor basicity (β), hydrogen-bond donor acidity (α), and dipolarity/polarizability (π*) of media do not give acceptable results. Multiparameter linear regression (MLR) of log kA versus the solvatochromic parameters demonstrates that the reaction rate constant increases with ENT, π*, and β and decreases with α parameter. To predict accurately solvent effects on the rate constant, optimized artificial neural network with three inputs (including α, π*, and β parameters) was applied for prediction of the log kA values in the prediction set. It was found that properly selected and trained neural network could fairly represent the dependence of the reaction rate constant on solvatochromic parameters. Mean percent deviation of 5.023 for the prediction set by the MLR model should be compared with the value of 0.343 by the artificial neural network model. These improvements are due to the fact that the reaction rate constant shows nonlinear correlations with the solvatochromic parameters. © 2008 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Int J Chem Kinet 41: 153–159, 2009
Octopus glutathione transferase (GST) was enzymically active in aerosol-OT [sodium bis-(2-ethylhexyl)sulphosuccinate]/iso-octane reverse micelles albeit with lowered catalytic constant (kcat). The enzyme reaction rate was found to be dependent on the [H2O]/[surfactant] ratio (omega(o)) of the system with maximum rate observed at omega(o) 13.88, which corresponded to vesicles with a core volume of 64 nm3. According to the physical examinations, a vesicle of this size is barely large enough to accommodate a monomeric enzyme subunit. Dissociation of the enzyme in reverse micelles was confirmed by cross-linking of the associated subunits with glutaraldehyde and separation of the monomers and dimers with electrophoresis in the presence of SDS. The kinetic properties of the enzyme were investigated by steady-state kinetic analysis. Both GSH and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) showed substrate inhibition and the Michaelis constant for CDNB was increased by 36-fold to 11.05 mM in reverse micelles. Results on the initial-velocity and product-inhibition studies indicate that the octopus GST conforms to a steady-state sequential random Bi Bi mechanism. The results from a log kcat versus pH plot suggest that amino acid residues with pKa values of 6.56 0.07 and 8.81 0.17 should be deprotonated to give optimum catalytic function. In contrast, the amino acid residue with a pKa value of 9.69 0.16 in aqueous solution had to be protonated for the reaction to proceed. We propose that the pKa1 (6.56) is that for the enzyme-bound GSH, which has a pKa value lowered by 1.40-1.54 pH units compared with that of free GSH in reverse micelles. The most probable candidate for the observed pKa2 (8.81) is Tyr7 of GST. The pKa of Tyr7 is 0.88 pH unit lower than that in aqueous solution and is about 2 pH units below the normal tyrosine. This tyrosyl residue may act as a base catalyst facilitating the dissociation of enzyme-bound GSH. The possible interaction of GST with plasma membrane in vivo is discussed.
The rates of basic hydrolysis of N-methyl-N-(4'-nitrophenyl)octanamide and N,4-dimethyl-N- (3'-nitrophenyl)benzamide in the presence of cetyltrimethylammonium fluoride and acetate and the SNAr reactions of sodium nitrite with 2,4-dinitrofluorobenzene and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in the presence of cetyltrimethylammonium fluoride have been measured and compared to the rate in the presence of cetyltrimethylammonium bromide. The identity of the micellar counter ion (i.e. fluoride, acetate or bromide) has only a small effect on the rate of reaction despite quite substantial differences in exchange constants for the appropriate nucleophile/counter ion pairs; this is explained by a considerable amount of reaction between substrate molecules in the micellar pseudophase and the nucleophile in the aqueous intermicellar phase.
New unsymmetrical diamine monomer containing triaryl pyridine pendent group, 2,4-diaminophenyl [4-(2, 6-diphenyl-4-pyridyl) phenyl]ether, was synthesized via aromatic substitution reaction of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene with 4-(2,6-diphenyl-4-pyridyl) phenol, followed by Pd/C-catalyzed hydrazine reduction. Five Polyamides (PA) were prepared by the phosphorylation polycondensation of different dicarboxylic diacids with the diamine. Inherent viscosities of PAs were in the range 0.51–0.59 g/dL indicating formation of medium molecular weight polymers. The weight and number average molecular weights of a PA, (PA-d), determined by GPC were 6944 g/mol and 17,369 g/mol, respectively. PAs exhibited glass-transition temperatures (Tg) in the range 140–235°C. These polymers, essentially amorphous, were soluble in polar aprotic solvents such as DMF, NMP, DMAc, DMSO, pyridine, m-cresol, and THF. The initial decomposition temperatures (Ti) of PAs, determined by TGA in air, were in the range 300–380°C indicating their good thermal stability. © 2010 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Appl Polym Sci, 2010
The present study describes the cDNA cloning, expression and characterization of a novel Mu class murine glutathione transferase (GST) isoenzyme. Screening of a cDNA library from the small intestine of a female A/J mouse using consensus probes derived from Mu class murine GST genes (mGSTM1-mGSTM5) resulted in the isolation of a full-length cDNA clone of a previously unknown Mu class GST gene (designated as mGSTM7). The choice of tissue was based on our previous identification in female A/J mouse small intestine of a potentially novel Mu class GST isoenzyme. The deduced amino acid sequence of mGSTM7, which comprises of 218 amino acid residues, exhibited about 67-78% identity with other Mu class murine GSTs. Recombinant mGSTM7-7 cross-reacted with anti-(GST Mu) antibodies, but not with anti-(GST Alpha) or anti-(GST Pi) antibodies. The pI and the reverse-phase-HPLC elution profile of recombinant mGSTM7-7 were different from those of other Mu class murine GSTs. The substrate specificity of mGSTM7-7 was also different compared with other Mu class murine GSTs. Interestingly, mGSTM7 had a higher identity with the human Mu class isoenzyme hGSTM4 (87% identity and 94% similarity in the amino acid sequence) than with any of the known mouse Mu class GSTs. Specific activities of recombinant mGSTM7-7 and human GSTM4-4 were comparable towards several substrates. For example, similar to hGSTM4-4, recombinant mGSTM7-7 was poorly active in catalysing the GSH conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and ethacrynic acid, and lacked activity towards 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene and 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)propane. These results suggested that hGSTM4-4 might be the human counterpart of mouse GSTM7-7. Reverse transcription-PCR analysis using mGSTM7-specific primers revealed that mGSTM7 is widely expressed in tissues of female A/J mice, including liver, forestomach, lung, kidney, colon and spleen.
Lipid peroxidation and liver necrosis due to a number of drugs and chemicals were studied. The agents were administered to control, vitamin E-deficient, and selenium-deficient rats. Vitamin E deficiency was documented by a low serum tocopherol level (0.34 mg/100 ml) and selenium deficiency by a specific activity of the selenoenzyme glutathione peroxidase in 105,000g liver supernatant which was approximately 1% of the control value. Glutathione S-transferase specific activity, measured with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate, was doubled by selenium deficiency. Ethane production was measured as the index of in vivo lipid peroxidation. Hepatic necrosis was assessed histologically and by measuring serum glutamic-pyruvic transaminase. When no agents were administered, vitamin E-deficient rats produced more ethane than did control or selenium-deficient rats. Phenobarbital did not cause an increase in ethane production. CCl4 (60 μl/100 g) and BrCCl3 (5 μl/100 g) caused large ethane production and moderately severe liver necrosis. The vitamin E-deficient and selenium-deficient groups given BrCCl3 produced more ethane than the controls but had no more severe hepatic necrosis than the controls. Thioacetamide (5 mmol/kg) and acetaminophen (3 g/kg) caused moderate to severe liver necrosis but only small ethane production. Vitamin E deficiency potentiated acetaminophen hepatotoxicity and selenium deficiency inhibited it. Iodipamide (1.5 mmol/kg) caused very large ethane production and death within hours in vitamin E-deficient rats. At a dose of 2 mmol/kg it caused severe liver necrosis in control rats but only small ethane production. This dose caused no liver necrosis in selenium-deficient rats. Acetylhydrazine (30 mg/kg) caused moderate ethane production in all groups but no liver necrosis. A single dose of ethanol (0.68 ml/100 g) led to small production of ethane in all groups. This study shows that many agents are capable of causing in vivo lipid peroxidation, but that lipid peroxidation does not always correlate with liver necrosis. Selenium deficiency is not a simple glutathione peroxidase deficiency state, as hepatic glutathione S-transferase is increased by it and it protects against acetaminophen and iodipamide hepatotoxicity.
From the fruitfly, Drosophila melanogaster, ten members of the cluster of Delta-class glutathione S-transferases (GSTs; formerly denoted as Class I GSTs) and one member of the Epsilon-class cluster (formerly GST-3) have been cloned, expressed in Escherichia coli, and their catalytic properties have been determined. In addition, nine more members of the Epsilon cluster have been identified through bioinformatic analysis but not further characterized. Of the 11 expressed enzymes, seven accepted the lipid peroxidation product 4-hydroxynonenal as substrate, and nine were active in glutathione conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Since the enzymically active proteins included the gene products of DmGSTD3 and DmGSTD7 which were previously deemed to be pseudogenes, we investigated them further and determined that both genes are transcribed in Drosophila. Thus our present results indicate that DmGSTD3 and DmGSTD7 are probably functional genes. The existence and multiplicity of insect GSTs capable of conjugating 4-hydroxynonenal, in some cases with catalytic efficiencies approaching those of mammalian GSTs highly specialized for this function, indicates that metabolism of products of lipid peroxidation is a highly conserved biochemical pathway with probable detoxification as well as regulatory functions.
Abstract Early investigations have shown that many chemically different compounds can cause disturbances of the spindle function (c-mitosis) in eukaryotic cells and that there is an unspecific (physical) mechanism based on the partitioning of the compound into cellular hydrophobic compartments. This suggests that the approach should be quantutative when testing compounds for this type of activity in vitro; effect/no effect is not the most pertinent question. The present study demonstrates how a set of reference compounds can be used in attempts to identify compounds that act by a more specific (chemical) mechanism to disturb the spindle function. All experiments were performed with an established cell line (V79 Chinese hamster). The results suggest that there is a good qualitative coupling in these cells between c-mitosis and aneuploidy with chemical treatment. Among compounds that are particularly active in relation to their lipophilic character are some chlorophenols, caffeine, diamide, diethyl maleate, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and tertiary butylhydroperoxide. This points to Ca 2+ -sequestering by mitochondria and/or cellular pH regulation (chlorophenols), Ca 2+ release the sequestering by the endoplasmic reticulum (caffeine), enzymatic conjugation to glutathione (diethyl maleate, chlorodinitrobenzene) and hydroperoxide metabolism ( t -butylhydroperoxide) as important target functions for specific activity.
Abstract A novel GST isoenzyme was purified from hepatopancreas cytosol of Atactodea striata with a combination of affinity chromatography and reverse-phase HPLC. The molecular weight of the enzyme was determined to be 24 kDa by SDS–PAGE electrophoresis and 48 kDa by gel chromatography, in combination with GST information from literature revealed that the native enzyme was homodimeric with a subunit of M r 24 kDa. The purified enzyme, exhibited high activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and 7-chloro-4-nitrobenzo-2-oxa-1,3-diazole (NBD-Cl). Kinetic analysis with respect to CDNB as substrate revealed a K m of 0.43 mM and V max of 0.24 μmol/min/mg and a specific activity of 108.9 μmol/min/mg. The isoelectric point of the enzyme was 5.5 by isoelectric focusing and its optimum temperature was 38 °C and the enzyme had a maximum activity at approximately pH 8.0. The amino acid composition was also determined for the purified enzyme.
A glutathione S-transferase (GST) isoenzyme having common antigenicity to rat placental form (GST-P) and human placental form (GST-pi) has recently been suggested may be a marker of carcinogenesis. In the present study we have investigated the expression of this isoenzyme in three small cell lung cancer cell lines in order to determine whether or not this isoenzyme can be used as a general marker of carcinogenesis. GST activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in two of the cell lines (NES and NOC-361) was moderately higher than that in normal human lung, but this activity was markedly suppressed in one of the cell lines (NCI-H69). Quantitation of the GST isoenzymes in the tumors grown in nude mice by injecting these cell lines also revealed a moderate increase of GST-pi-type isoenzyme in NES and NOC-361 and its suppression in NCI-H69. Immunocytochemical localization studies with these tumors using antibodies raised against GST-pi also indicated a drastic decrease of GST-pi-type isoenzyme in NCI-H69 and this finding was confirmed by Western blot studies. These results suggest that GST-pi, or the isoenzyme(s) having similar immunological nature to GST-pi, cannot be used as the general markers of neoplastic states.
Double-reciprocal plots of initial-rate data for the conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and GSH by human placental GSH S-transferase pi were linear for both substrates. Computer modelling of the initial-rate data using nonlinear least-squares regression analysis favoured a rapid equilibrium random sequential bi-bi mechanism, over a steady-state random sequential mechanism or a steady-state or rapid equilibrium ordered mechanism. KGSH was calculated as 0.125 +/- 0.006 mM, KCDNB was 0.87 +/- 0.07 mM and alpha was 2.1 +/- 0.3 for the rapid equilibrium random model. The product, S-(2,4-dinitrophenyl)glutathione, was a competitive inhibitor with respect to GSH, and a mixed-type inhibitor toward CDNB (KP = 18 +/- 3 microM). The observed pattern of inhibition is consistent with a rapid equilibrium random mechanism, with a dead-end enzyme.CDNB.product complex, but inconsistent with the inhibition patterns of other bireactant mechanisms. Since rat liver GSH S-transferase 3-3 acts via a steady-state random sequential mechanism [1], while human placental GSH S-transferase and perhaps also rat liver GSH S-transferase 1-1 [2] exhibit rapid equilibrium random mechanisms, we conclude that the kinetic mechanism of the GSH S-transferases is isoenzyme-dependent.
GSTs are a family of four isoenzymes (GSTA, GSTM, GSTT and GSTP) that inactivate ROS and xenobiotics through conjugation with glutathione (GSH) (12) . The isoenzyme GSTP1 is expressed in biliary epithelial and pancreatic stellate cells, and its gene reveals a polymorphism which leads to an amino acid substitution (Ile/Val) at codon 105 resulting in a 3-fold decreased capability of GSTP1 to detoxify 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (13) and to deactivate 4-hydroxynonenal, a highly reactive product of lipid peroxidation (14) . We have recently identified genotype GSTP1 Val/Val as a genetic risk factor for the development of liver cirrhosis in patients with hereditary hemochromatosis, a disease in which oxidative stress is the pivotal trigger of tissue injury (15) .
The ability of the liver, small intestine, and kidney to synthesize and subsequently eliminate dinitrophenyl-S-glutathione (DNP-SG), a substrate for multidrug resistance-associated protein 2 (Mrp2), was assessed in rats treated with glucagon-like peptide 2 (GLP-2, 12 g/100 g b.wt. s.c. every 12 h for 5 consecutive days). An in vivo perfused jejunum model with simultaneous bile and urine collection was used. A single intravenous dose of 30 mol/kg b.wt. 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was administered, and its conjugate, DNP-SG, and dinitrophenyl cysteinyl glycine (DNP-CG), resulting from the action of ␥-glutamyltransferase on DNP-SG, were determined in bile, intestinal perfusate, and urine by highperformance liquid chromatography. Tissue content of DNP-SG was also assessed in liver, intestine, and kidneys. Biliary excretion of DNP-SG؉DNP-CG was decreased in GLP-2 rats with respect to controls. In contrast, their intestinal excretion was substantially increased, whereas urinary elimination was not affected. Western blot and real-time polymerase chain reaction studies revealed preserved
Multidrug resistance-associated protein 2 (Mrp2, Abcc2) is a member of the ATP-binding cassette family of export pumps (Bü chler et al., 1996; Paulusma et al., 1996; Keppler et al., 1997) . In the intestine, it is located at the brush-border membrane of the enterocyte. It is mainly expressed in the proximal small intestine and acts coordinately with conjugating enzymes such as glutathione transferase (GST; EC 2.5.1.18) and UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (EC 2.4.1.17) to metabolize and eliminate common substrates into the intestinal lumen . We have recently demonstrated in rats that GLP-2 increases the expression of Mrp2 in jejunum in association with increased prevention of mucosal to serosal absorption of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as an increased amount of its glutathione derivative, dinitrophenyl-glutathione (DNP-SG), is pumped back to the luminal side (Villanueva et al., 2010) . The stimulatory effect of GLP-2 was exerted on both GST and Mrp2 and was associated with increased capability for protection against absorption of potentially toxic xenobiotics from the lumen and for prevention of enterocyte toxicity. We proposed these findings to be of pathophysiological relevance as GLP-2 may exert a cytoprotective action under conditions of intestinal damage or during development, lactation, or tissue regeneration in addition to its trophic action. This important role in regulation of membrane chemical barrier gives additional support to therapeutic application of GLP-2 in human intestinal disease.
Glutathione transferase 1 (GSTZ1), also known as maleylacetoacetate isomerase (MAAI), is a member of the cytosolic GST gene family that encodes at least 17 functional proteins organized into seven families (Mannervik et al., 2005) . Originally identified in the cytosol, GSTZ1 is also found in the mitochondria, where it is expressed to a lesser extent (Li et al., 2011b) . GSTZ1 has no detectable activity with the prototypical xenobiotic GST substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene but does recognize ␣-halocarboxylic acids, such as dichloroacetic and 2-chloropropionic acids, as substrates. GSTZ1 catalyzes the dehalogenation of dichloroacetate (DCA) to glyoxylate (Tong et al., 1998) . As the penultimate enzyme of tyrosine/phenylalanine catabolism, GSTZ1 isomerizes maleylacetoacetate to fumarylacetoacetate (Fernández-Cañón et al., 1999) . Studies with GSTZ1 knock-out mice showed that these mice survived unless challenged with a diet high in protein, tyrosine, or homogentisic acid (Fernán-dez-Cañón et al., 2002) . GSTZ1-catalyzed DCA dechlorination is of particular interest because DCA exposure occurs both environmentally and therapeutically. Human populations are estimated to ingest 2 to 4 g of DCA/kg body weight through consumption of drinking water, where DCA is considered an environmental contaminant produced during water chlorination (Mughal, 1992) . Meanwhile, DCA has long been used as an investigational drug for the treatment of several metabolic disorders, including genetic mitochondrial diseases, and, recently, proliferative conditions, including cancer and pulmonary arterial hypertension (reviewed by Stacpoole, 2011) . Patients treated with DCA have been reported to develop occasional asymptomatic hepatotoxicity and, more frequently, a reversible peripheral neuropathy.
Abstract. Acute exposure to naphthalene produces severe bronchiolar epithelial cell necrosis in mice, whereas subchronic exposure to naphthalene (200 mg/kg/7 days) fails to produce epithelial necrosis and renders the animals tolerant to subsequent challenge doses of naphthalene. Mechanisms responsible for the development of tolerance have not been delineated. The few studies exploring naphthalene tolerance focus on expression of microsomal enzymes and have yet to delve into expression of the hepatic detoxification enzymes such as glutathione S-transferases (GSTs; EC 2.5.1.18). Glutathione conjugation catalyzed by GSTs accounts for one of the two primary routes of naphthalene detoxification. In this study, we rigorously quantify levels of individual GST isozymes expressed within the livers and lungs of mice with acquired tolerance to naphthalene. Subchronic exposure to naphthalene increases the abundance of some hepatic GSTs to levels as much as 68% greater than controls. Naphthalene-tolerant mice displayed increases in mGSTM1 (51%), mGSTM2 (58%), and mGSTP1 (66%), whereas no significant difference in mGSTA3 was observed between exposed and control mice. Extracts of pulmonary tissues from naphthalene-tolerant mice showed minor increases in levels of mGSTP1 (7%) and Peak 8 isozyme (27%) and decreases in levels of mGSTM1 (31%), mGSTM2 (17%), and mGSTA3 (8%). The total enzymatic activity for the conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was 22% lower in lung extracts from naphthalene-tolerant animals than in controls. These results indicate that induction of hepatic GSTs is substantial and may be an important factor in the development of tolerance to naphthalene.
The mite Sarcoptes scabiei causes sarcoptic mange, or scabies, a disease that affects both animals and humans worldwide. Our interest in S. scabiei led us to further characterise a glutathione S-transferase. This multifunctional enzyme is a target for vaccine and drug development in several parasitic diseases. The S. scabiei glutathione S-transferase open reading frame reported here is 684 nucleotides long and yields a protein with a predicted molecular mass of 26 kDa. Through phylogenetic analysis the enzyme was classified as a delta-class glutathione Stransferase, and our paper is the first to report that delta-class glutathione S-transferases occur in organisms other than insects. The recombinant S. scabiei glutathione S-transferase was expressed in Escherichia coli via three different constructs and purified for biochemical analysis. The S. scabiei glutathione S-transferase was active towards the substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, though the positioning of fusion partners influenced the kinetic activity of the enzyme. Polyclonal antibodies raised against S. scabiei glutathione S-transferase specifically localised the enzyme to the integument of the epidermis and cavities surrounding internal organs in adult parasites. However, some minor staining of parasite intestines was observed. No staining was seen in host tissues, nor could we detect any antibody response against S. scabiei glutathione S-transferase in sera from naturally S. scabiei infected dogs or pigs. Additionally, the polyclonal sera raised against recombinant S. scabiei glutathione S-transferase readily detected a protein from mites, corresponding to the predicted size of native glutathione S-transferase. q 2004 Australian Society for Parasitology Inc. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs, EC 2.5.1.18) are categorized as phase II enzymes, which form an important multifunctional family associated with a wide variety of catalytic activities. GSTω, GSTρ, and GSTθ are cytosolic GSTs which have been extensively studied in a variety of organisms; however, few studies have focused on teleosts. Those paralogs from black rockfish (Sebastes schlegelii; RfGSTω, RfGSTρ, and RfGSTθ, respectively) were molecularly, biochemically, and functionally characterized to determine their antioxidant extent and protective aptitudes upon pathogenic stress. RfGSTω, RfGSTρ, and RfGSTθ, contained open reading frames of 717bp, 678bp, and 720bp respectively, which encoded respective proteins of 239, 226, and 240 amino acids in length. In silico analysis revealed that all RfGSTs possessed characteristic N-terminal domains bearing glutathione (GSH)-binding sites, and C-terminal domains containing substrate-binding sites. Recombinant RfGSTω (rRfGSTω) catalyzed the conjugation of GSH to dehydroascorbate (DHA), while rRfGSTθ and rRfGSTρ catalyzed to the model GST substrate 1-Chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). Kinetic analysis revealed variation in Km and Vmax values for each rRfGST, indicating their different conjugation rates. The optimum conditions (pH and temperature) and inhibition assays of each protein demonstrated different optimal ranges showing their wide range of activity as an assembly. RfGSTω and RfGSTθ paralogs demonstrated their antioxidant potential towards H2O2 and heavy metals (Cd, Zn, and Cu) in vitro, while RfGSTρ had an antioxidant potential only towards heavy metals (Zn and Cu). Though all the paralogs were ubiquitously expressed in different magnitudes, RfGSTω was highly expressed in blood, whereas RfGSTρ and RfGSTθ were highly expressed in liver. The mRNA expression of RfGSTω and RfGSTθ, upon Streptococcus iniae and poly I:C stimulation, revealed a significantly up-regulated expression, whereas RfGSTρ mRNA expression was significantly down-regulated. Collectively, our findings suggest that RfGSTω, RfGSTρ, and RfGSTθ paralogs are potent in detoxifying xenobiotic toxics, capable of protecting cells from oxidative stress generated by both H2O2 and heavy metals, and finally, yet importantly, stimulated under pathogenic stress signals.
Tolerance mechanism to simazine (6-chloro-N,N'-diethyl-1,3,5-triazine-2,4-diamine) in Coix lacryma-jobi was investigated with respect to herbicide detoxification via glutathione conjugation. Simazine was initially absorbed by seedlings of C. lacryma-jobi and corn, but after 12 hours of treatment, no significant difference in simazine absorption was found in both species. Simazine absorbed was rapidly metabolized to glutathione-simazine conjugate. One to six hours after treatment, metabolism was approximately 2-fold faster in C. lacryma-jobi than in corn. Glutathione content was found 1.5- and 2.3-fold higher in coleoptile and root of C. lacryma-jobi, respectively, compared with corn. In both species, the highest concentration of glutathione was found in coleoptile tissue. Glutathione S-transferase that exhibits activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was not significantly different between two species. However, glutathione S-transferase activity with simazine was approximately 2-fold greater in C. lacryma-jobi than in corn. The glutathione S-transferase activity was 20 to 30% greater in shoot of either species than in root. Fast protein liquid chromatography-anion exchange column was used to separate glutathione S-transferase isozymes in coleoptiles of C. lacryma-jobi and corn. A peak of glutathione S-transferase activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and two peaks of glutathione S-transferase activity with simazine from C. lacryma-jobi were coeluted with those from corn, but showed greater activity than in the case of corn. Another glutathione S-transferase isozyme that exhibits activity with simazine was detected in the elution of C. lacryma-jobi extract, but not in corn. Electron transport in chloroplast thylakoids isolated from leaves of both species was equally sensitive to simazine applied at 1 to 100 nM. These results indicate that the simazine tolerance in C. lacryma-jobi is due to its capacity to detoxify the herbicide via glutathione conjugation, which is positively correlated with the level of glutathione content and glutathione S-transferase activity.
We show that N-acetylcysteine (NAC) has the ability to cause statistically significant diminishment in the in vitro formation of irreversibly sickled cells (ISCs) at concentrations greater than 250 micromol/L. Other antioxidants, approved for human use (cysteamine, succimer, dimercaprol), were not efficacious. NAC had the ability to cause statistically significant conversion of ISCs formed in vivo back to the biconcave shape. NAC was also shown to reduce the formation of dense cells and increase the available thiols in beta-actin. We showed that diminishing reduced glutathione (GSH), by treatment with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, resulted in increased dense cells. We conclude the NAC blocks dense cell formation and ISC formation by targeting channels involved in cellular dehydration and beta-actin, respectively. The efficacy of NAC is probably due to its combined antioxidant activity and ability to increase intracellular GSH.
Oxidative stress, mediated partly by lipid peroxidation products, may lead to increased collagen synthesis by hepatic stellate cells (HSC). Stellate cells are protected from oxidative stress by enzymes of detoxication such as the glutathione S-transferases (GSTs), which form glutathione conjugates with lipid peroxidation products (e.g., 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal [HNE]). To better understand the role of GSTs in stellate cell biology, we examined the expression and enzymatic activity of GSTs in normal and activated (both culture- and in vivo-activated) stellate cells. Normal stellate cells contained numerous isoforms of GST including those that detoxify HNE. High levels of enzymatic activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and HNE were present in normal stellate cells and were similar to levels present in whole liver. Following activation by growth in culture, the expression of several GSTs (rGSTA1/A2, A3, and M1) was lost. Also, enzymatic activities toward CDNB and HNE fell approximately 90%. However, expression of rGSTP1 was maintained. A similar loss of rGSTA1/A2, A3, and M1 with persistent expression of rGSTP1 was present after activation in vivo. Furthermore, we identified 2 subpopulations of activated stellate cells with different GST phenotypes from injured livers. In summary, activated stellate cells lose most forms of GST and associated enzymatic activities that are present in normal stellate cells. The findings raise the possibility that activated stellate cells have less ability to detoxify lipid peroxidation products and may be susceptible to oxidative stress. Additionally, we propose that the phenotypic change in GSTs is a sensitive marker of stellate cell activation.
The effects of glucagon-like peptide 2 (GLP-2) on expression and activity of jejunal multidrug resistance-associated protein 2 (Mrp2; Abcc2) and glutathione transferase (GST) were evaluated. After GLP-2 treatment (12 μg/100 g b.wt. s.c., every 12 h, for 5 consecutive days), Mrp2 and the α class of GST proteins and their corresponding mRNAs were increased, suggesting a transcriptional regulation. Mrp2 was localized at the apical membrane of the enterocyte in control and GLP-2 groups, as detected by confocal immunofluorescence microscopy. As a functional assay, everted intestinal sacs were incubated in the presence of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in the mucosal compartment, and the glutathione-conjugated derivative, dinitrophenyl-S-glutathione (DNP-SG; model Mrp2 substrate), was detected in the same compartment by high-performance liquid chromatography. A significant increase in apical secretion of DNP-SG was detected in the GLP-2 group, consistent with simultaneous up-regulation of Mrp2 and GST. GLP-2 also promoted an increase in cAMP levels as detected in homogenates of intestinal mucosa. Treatment of rats with 2',3'-dideoxyadenosine (DDA), a specific inhibitor of adenylyl cyclase, abolished the increase in cAMP levels and Mrp2 protein promoted by GLP-2, suggesting cAMP as a mediator of Mrp2 modulation. Increased expression of Mrp2 and cAMP levels in response to GLP-2 occurred not only at the tip but also at the middle region of the villus, where constitutive expression of Mrp2 is normally low. In conclusion, our study suggests a role for GLP-2 in the prevention of cell toxicity of the intestinal mucosa by increasing Mrp2 chemical barrier function.
Hyperthyroidism potentiates the in vivo hepatotoxicity of 1,1-dicholoroethylene (DCE) in rats, with a concomitant increase in [14C]-DCE covalent binding. The enhanced injury produced in hyperthyroid livers by DCE could be due to alterations in either the bioactivation or detoxication phases of DCE metabolism. Previous in vitro studies suggested that hyperthyroidism did not potentiate DCE hepatotoxicity by increasing DCE oxidation to intermediates which were able to covalently bind. Several factors, however, that could contribute to the magnitude of DCE bioactivation or covalent binding were not examined. Our objectives were to characterize the effects of hyperthyroidism in male Sprague-Dawley rats on: (1) covalent binding of [14C]-DCE to microsomes and other subcellular fractions, (2) microsomal mixed-function oxidase (MFO) and glutathione S-transferase (GST) activities, and (3) inactivation of microsomal enzyme activities by presumptive DCE reactive intermediates. Hyperthyroid (HYPERT) and euthyroid (EUT) rats received 3 s.c. injections of thyroxine (100 micrograms/100 g) or vehicle, respectively, at 48-h intervals; microsomes and other subcellular fractions were isolated from HYPERT and EUT livers 24 h after the last injection. [14C]-DCE-derived covalent binding was consistently greater in EUT than HYPERT microsomes. The absence of NADH, and the addition of low concentrations (0.1 and 0.5 mM), but not higher concentrations (> 1 mM), of glutathione (GSH) diminished covalent binding to a greater extent in HYPERT than EUT microsomes. Covalent binding in mitochondrial, nuclear, and cytosolic fractions of EUT and HYPERT livers was equivalent. Regression analysis of covalent binding to liver cell fractions from both EUT and HYPERT rats showed a significant correlation with P-450 content. Hyperthyroidism decreased microsomal, but not mitochondrial, cytochrome P-450 content, and MFO activities for 7-ethoxycoumarin and benzphermine were similarly decreased. Hyperthyroidism also diminished microsomal GST activity, and altered GST kinetics for both GSH and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). The magnitude of inactivation of MFO and GST activities in the presence of DCE (presumably by DCE reactive intermediates) was comparable between EUT and HYPERT microsomes. When covalent binding was standardized to cytochrome P-450 concentrations in microsomes and mitochondria, HYPERT fractions exhibited slightly greater covalent binding than EUT fractions, suggesting that hyperthyroidism does not reduce the capacity of P-450 hemoproteins to bioactive DCE. Thus, potentiation of DCE hepatotoxicity by hyperthyroidism may be predominantly due to diminished Phase II constituents, and major increases in reactive intermediate/conjugates that covalently bind to and impair critical cellular molecules.
Insect glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) play important roles in detoxifying toxic compounds and eliminating oxidative stress caused by these compounds. In this study, detoxification activity of the epsilon GST SlGSTE1 in Spodoptera litura was analyzed for several insecticides and heavy metals. SlGSTE1 was significantly up-regulated by chlorpyrifos and xanthotoxin in the midgut of S. litura. The recombinant SlGSTE1 had Vmax (reaction rate of the enzyme saturated with the substrate) and Km (michaelis constant and equals to the substrate concentration at half of the maximum reaction rate of the enzyme) values of 27.95 ± 0.88 μmol/min/mg and 0.87 ± 0.028 mmol/L for glutathione, respectively, and Vmax and Km values of 22.96 ± 0.78 μmol/min/mg and 0.83 ± 0.106 mmol/L for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, respectively. In vitro enzyme indirect activity assay showed that the recombinant SlGSTE1 possessed high binding activities to the insecticides chlorpyrifos, deltamethrin, malathion, phoxim and dichloro-diphenyl-trichloroethane (DDT). SlGSTE1 showed higher binding activity to toxic heavy metals cadmium, chromium and lead than copper and zinc that are required for insect normal growth. Western blot analysis showed that SlGSTE1 was induced in the gut of larvae fed with chlorpyrifos or cadmium. SlGSTE1 also showed high peroxidase activity. All the results together indicate that SlGSTE1 may play an important role in the gut of S. litura to protect the insect from the toxic effects of these compounds and heavy metals.
The eukaryotic elongation factor 1 gamma (eEF1γ) is a multi-domain protein, which consist of a glutathione transferase (GST)-like N-terminus domain. In association with α, β and δ subunits, eEF1γ forms part of the eukaryotic elongation factor complex, which is mainly involved in protein biosynthesis. The N-terminus GST domain of eEF1γ interacts with the β subunit. eEF1γ subunit is over-expressed in human carcinoma. The role of human eEF1γ (heEF1γ) is poorly understood. A successful purification of recombinant heEF1γ is the first step towards determining unknown properties of the protein, including putative GST-like activities and the structure of the protein. This paper describes the over-expression, purification and characterisation of recombinant full-length, and the N- and C-terminus domains of heEF1γ. All three recombinant heEF1γ constructs over-expressed in the soluble Escherichia coli cell fraction and were purified to homogeneity. Secondary structure analysis indicates that the heEF1γ constructs have high α-helical structural character. The full-length and N-terminus domain are dimeric, while the C-terminus is monomeric. Both full-length and N-terminus domain interact with 8-anilino-1-naphthalene sulfonate (ANS) with KD=70.0 (±5.7) μM and with reduced glutathione (GSH). Glutathione sulfonate displaced ANS bound to hydrophobic binding sites in the recombinant N-terminus domain. Using the standard GSH-1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene conjugation assay, the N-domain showed some enzyme activity (0.03μmolmin(-1) mg(-1) protein), while the full-length heEF1γ did not catalyse the GSH-CDNB conjugation. Consequently, we hypothesize the presence of a presumed GST-like active site structure in the heEF1γ, which comprises a glutathione binding site and a hydrophobic substrate binding site.
The effect of some inhibitors of glutathione transferases was examined on a purified glutathione transferase from the liver of the African catfish ( Clarias gariepinus ). The ability of the enzyme to catalyze the conjugation of glutathione (GSH) with a variety of other compounds was also examined. The glutathione transferase (GST) from the African catfish was inhibited by all the compounds examined. Cibracron blue and triphenyltin chloride were the most potent inhibitors with I 50 (concentration of inhibitors causing 50% inhibition) of 0.0875μM and 0.0525μM respectively. The enzyme displayed broad substrate specificity. The enzyme was able to catalyze the conjugation of GSH with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), ethacrynic acid , 4-nitrobenzylchloride, p-nitrophenylacetate and hydrogen peroxide. The results obtained from this work suggest that the glutathione transferase from the liver of African catfish might possibly belong to the Pi and Mu class of isoenzymes and that the enzyme is homodimeric. Key Words: Glutathione transferase; African catfish; Clarias gariepinus; substrate specificity; isoenzyme(s) Global Jnl Pure & Applied Science Vol.10(1) 2004: 179-182
The effects of glucagon-like peptide 2 (GLP-2) on expression and activity of jejunal multidrug resistance-associated protein 2 (Mrp2; Abcc2) and glutathione transferase (GST) were evaluated. After GLP-2 treatment (12 g/100 g b.wt. s.c., every 12 h, for 5 consecutive days), Mrp2 and the ␣ class of GST proteins and their corresponding mRNAs were increased, suggesting a transcriptional regulation. Mrp2 was localized at the apical membrane of the enterocyte in control and GLP-2 groups, as detected by confocal immunofluorescence microscopy. As a functional assay, everted intestinal sacs were incubated in the presence of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in the mucosal compartment, and the glutathione-conjugated derivative, dinitrophenyl-S-glutathione (DNP-SG; model Mrp2 substrate), was detected in the same compartment by high-performance liquid chromatography. A significant increase in apical secretion of DNP-SG was detected in the GLP-2 group, consistent with simultaneous up-regulation of Mrp2 and GST. GLP-2 also promoted an increase in cAMP levels as detected in homogenates of intestinal mucosa. Treatment of rats with 2Ј,3Ј-dideoxyadenosine (DDA), a specific inhibitor of adenylyl cyclase, abolished the increase in cAMP levels and Mrp2 protein promoted by GLP-2, suggesting cAMP as a mediator of Mrp2 modulation. Increased expression of Mrp2 and cAMP levels in response to GLP-2 occurred not only at the tip but also at the middle region of the villus, where constitutive expression of Mrp2 is normally low. In conclusion, our study suggests a role for GLP-2 in the prevention of cell toxicity of the intestinal mucosa by increasing Mrp2 chemical barrier function.
Rat glutathione transferase 8-8 is one of the less abundant cytosolic glutathione transferases, accounting for approx. 1% of the total activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in liver. The enzyme is eluted at pH 6.3 upon chromatofocusing and has so far been identified in liver, kidney, lung and testis. Characteristic properties include high relative activity with ethacrynic acid (70% of the specific activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene) and an apparent subunit Mr of 24 500. The most significant property noted is the high catalytic activity in the conjugation of 4-hydroxyalk-2-enals, major products of lipid peroxidation. The catalytic efficiency with these substrates exceeds corresponding values for all known substrates tested with any glutathione transferase, which suggests that transferase 8-8 may have evolved to detoxify 4-hydroxyalk-2-enals.
The active site cysteine of human O6-alkylguanine-DNA alkyltransferase (hAGT), Cys145, was shown to be highly reactive with model electrophiles unrelated to substrates, including 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. The high reactivity suggested that the Cys145 thiolate anion might be stable at neutral pH. The pKa was estimated from plots of UV spectra (A239) and reactivity toward 4,4'-dithiopyridine vs pH. The estimated pKa for hAGT was 4−5, depending upon the method used, and near that of the extensively characterized papain Cys25. Rates of reaction with 4,4'-dithiopyridine were similar for the thiolate forms of hAGT, papain, glutathione, and the bacterial hAGT homologue Ogt (the pKa of the latter was 5.4). Bound Zn2+ has previously been shown to be required for the catalytic activity of hAGT (Rasimas, J. J. et al. (2003) Biochemistry 42, 980−990). Zn2+ was shown to be required for the low pKa of hAGT. The high reactivity of hAGT Cys145 is postulated to be important in normal catalytic function, in cross-linkin...
Three major forms of cytosolic glutathione S-transferase (designated F1, F2, and F3 transferases according to increasing isoelectric points) were purified to homogeneity from liver of DBA/2J mice, primarily by CM-cellulose and hydroxylapatite chromatography. The purified enzymes were shown to have specific activities of 104, 281, and 143 units/mg, respectively, when assayed with 1 mM each of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and reduced glutathione. Antisera against these three forms of mouse transferase were raised separately in rabbits. F1 and F2 transferases showed complete immunological identity either by double immunodiffusion or enzyme immunoinactivation tests. No cross-reactivity was observed between the antisera to F1 (or F2) transferase an F3 transferase or between the antisera to F3 transferase and F1 (or F2) transferase. F1 and F2 transferases were shown to be homodimers with an identical molecular weight of 44,000 +/- 1,000, whereas F3 transferase has a dimeric molecular weight of 51,000 +/- 2,000. The amino acid composition and tryptic peptide map of F1 transferase are similar to those of F2 transferase, but are distinct from those of F3 transferase. In addition to these major forms, a minor form of mouse transferase (F4) with a high isoelectric point (greater than 9.5) was shown to be a mixture of interconvertible isomers of F2 and F3 transferase. Different forms of mouse transferase were studied extensively with respect to their biochemical properties, including Michaelis constants, substrate specificity, thermal stability, and fluorometric ligand binding. The results of this study suggest great species variations regarding the multiple forms as well as the substrate specificity of this family of enzymes.
Abstract Cell-mediated immunity (delayed hypersensitivity) to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB) was passively transferred from sensitized guinea pigs to mice. Transfer was accomplished by subcutaneous injection of peritoneal exudate cells of sensitized guinea pigs.
Salmonella typhimurium strains which are commonly used in the Ames test for screening potential carcinogens were examined for a number of drug-metabolizing systems. Neither cytochrome P-450 itself nor two activities catalyzed by the cytochrome P-450 system in mammalian cells, i.e., benzpyrene monooxygenase and ethoxycoumarin O-deethylation, could be detected. Nor do these bacterial strains demonstrate any ability to detoxify epoxides by hydrating them or to conjugate p-nitrophenol with glucuronic acid. On the other hand, S. tryphimurium strains G46, TA1535, TA100, TA1538 and TA98 contain considerable amounts of acid-soluble thiols, approx. 5--10% of which is glutathione. These bacteria can also enzymatically conjugate glutathione with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and can reduce oxidized glutathione using NADPH as cofactor. Thus, enzymatic and non-enzymatic reaction of immediate carcinogens with thiol groups in s. typhimurium may have a significant effect on the outcome of the Ames test in certain cases.
Abstract Platelet reduced glutathione ( GSH ) is completely depleted by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene ( CDNB ), which is a substrate for GSH-S-transferase. GSH-depleted platelets: a) aggregate normally at high inducer concentration; b) respond with increased ( after arachidonic acid ) or depressed ( after collagen ) aggregability at low inducer concentration; c) show almost no arachidonic acid-induced stimulation of the hexose monophosphate shunt; d) are sensitized to oxidant agents such as diamide, which elicits a faster cytoskeletal protein oxidative polymerization and reversible aggregation. Our results suggest that GSH acts as a reducing cofactor and/or free radical scavenger in the PG-hydroperoxidase step of the cyclooxygenase pathway; moreover, GSH protects membrane and cytoskeletal protein -SH groups from oxidation.
In the UK biotypes of black-grass (Alopecurus myosuroides Huds) showing resistance to both chlorotoluron (CTU) and aryloxyphenoxypropionate graminicides are increasingly being observed. Although the precise mechanisms involved in this resistance have yet to be identified, increased herbicide metabolism has been implicated as being involved in at least some cases of resistance. Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are a group of enzymes which have been demonstrated to metabolise herbicides in some plants, and the resistant black-grass biotype Peldon contains approximately double the GST activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) of susceptible biotypes. To investigate further the possible role of GSTs in herbicide resistance in black-grass, a purification procedure has been developed for these enzymes. A 27.5 kDa polypeptide possessing GST activity was purified from the susceptible biotype Herbiseed. Purification of GSTs from the resistant biotype Peldon also identified this polypeptide along with an additional 30 kDa polypeptide. An in-vitro kinetic study of both crude and purified GST extracts, and western blot analysis using antisera raised against the 27.5 kDa polypeptide, suggest that the 30 kDa polypeptide may possess GST activity, and is not a precursor of the 27.5 kDa polypeptide. These results are discussed and compared to GST profiles for other weeds and crops demonstrating herbicide resistance or tolerance.
The activity of glutathione transferase was measured in sonicates of fresh rat hepatocytes and of cryopreserved rat, human and dog hepatocytes in the presence of added glutathione and by using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as non-selective substrate. The glutathione-conjugating capacity was also investigated in the presence of CDNB alone (without glutathione) with intact fresh rat hepatocytes and cryopreserved rat and human hepatocytes. Finally, the intracellular level of glutathione was measured in these hepatocytes. The specific activity of glutathione transferase in sonicates of fresh rat hepatocytes (in the presence of added GSH and CDNB) was about 415 nmol/min/10(6) cells. The corresponding activities in cryopreserved rat, human and dog hepatocytes were approximately 320, 440 and 540 nmol/min/10(6) cells, respectively. In contrast, glutathione conjugation by the intact cryopreserved human and rat hepatocytes in the presence of CDNB alone was less than 10% of the corresponding conjugation by fresh rat hepatocytes, indicating that glutathione was depleted in these cryopreserved hepatocytes. Glutathione depletion was confirmed after analytical measurement of the glutathione levels in fresh and cryopreserved hepatocytes. In fresh rat hepatocytes the level of glutathione was 44 nmol/10(6) cells, whereas it was 2.5 and 4.4 nmol/10(6) cells in cryopreserved rat and human hepatocytes, respectively. In summary, glutathione transferase was active in these cryopreserved hepatocytes but the cryopreservation procedure likely causes depletion in the intracellular level of glutathione, resulting in an overall reduced glutathione conjugating capacity.
Abstract Glutathione S-transferase (GST, EC 2.5.1.18) was purified from the digestive gland of the squid Ommastrephes sloani pacificus. It had high enzymatic activity for the 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene substrate and was composed of a major and a minor polypeptide band, both with molecular masses near 25 kDa on SDS-polyacrylamide gels. GST cDNA clones were derived from the digestive gland mRNA. The deduced GSTs of the longest cDNAs (pGST5 and pGST11) containing the entire coding sequence have a molecular mass near 23 kDa. Sequence comparisons showed that the squid GST is 42-44% identical to both squid and octopus S-crystallins (the major proteins of the lens), 32-34% identical to class pi and 29-32% identical to class alpha GSTs of vertebrates, and 19-23% identical to other GSTs of vertebrates and insects. Northern blot hybridization revealed that GST mRNAs were much more abundant in the digestive gland than in the testis, mantle, or lens. Analysis of a squid GST gene indicated that it has an exon-intron structure similar to that of the vertebrate class pi GST gene. An apparently novel repetitive element was identified in the 5'-flanking sequence of the squid GST gene. Our results suggest that multiple duplications of an ancestral GST gene gave rise to a family of enzymatically inactive crystallins specialized for lens refraction and one (or two) active GST enzyme expressed preferentially, but not exclusively, in the digestive gland in squids. This differs from the innovation of refractive function from a metabolic enzyme by increased expression in the lens with minimal or no gene duplication, as occurred among the enzyme-crystallins of vertebrates.
Abstract Toxicity and physiological effects of pyridalyl were studied on the adults of Bacterocera oleae via oral exposure and biochemical experiments. First, adults were fed on a protein hydrolysate diet which has been amended by five concentrations of pyridalyl. Then, another cohort of flies was fed on LC50 concentration to find potential effects on fecundity, detoxifying enzymes and intermediary metabolism. Results of bioassay showed a concentration of 0.517 μg/ml as the LC50 value with confidence limit of 0.305–0.791 μg/ml at 95%. Fecundity of the females fed on pyridalyl-treated diet showed no significant differences with controls following 7 days of exposure while a significant higher mortality was recorded in laid eggs by the treated females. Activities of esterase and glutathione S-transferase significantly increased in the treated adults compared to control when α-naphthyl acetate and CDNB (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene) were used as substrates. Activities of alanine- and aspartate aminotransferases significantly increased in the pyridalyl-treated adults compared to control while no significant difference was observed in activity of ɤ-glutamyl transferase. Although lactate dehydrogenase showed no statistically different activity but both acid- and alkaline phosphatases had statistically higher activity in the control adults compared to treatment. Finally, low density lipoprotein and total protein were the only non-enzymatic components which showed statistical difference between control and treated flies. Our results indicated that pyridalyl had toxicity on B. oleae and intervened in the physiological performance of flies.
The contents of S-(1,2-dicarboxyethyl)glutathione (DCE-GS) in several tissues of rat were determined by HPLC. The peptide was present at concentrations (nmol/g tissue) of 119 in lens, 71.6 in liver, and 27.4 in heart. It was, however, not detected in spleen, kidney, cerebrum, or cerebellum. In rat liver, DCE-GS was located primarily in the cytosolic fraction. The substrates for the enzymic synthesis of DCE-GS were GSH and L-malate. In rats, the DCE-GS-synthesizing activity was found to be highest in the liver and in the cytosol of rat liver subcellular fractions. The DCE-GS-synthesizing enzyme was partially purified from rat liver cytosolic fraction by ammonium sulfate fractionation, Phenyl Superose chromatography, hydroxyapatite chromatography, and gel filtration. The molecular mass of the enzyme was estimated to be 53 kDa by gel filtration and SDS-PAGE, showing it to be a monomeric protein. The Km values for GSH and L-malate were 2.3 and 4.0 mM at 37 degrees C, respectively. The enzyme did not utilize 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, p-nitrophenyl bromide, trans-4-phenyl-3-buten-2-one, or p-nitrobenzyl chloride, which were substrates for previously characterized glutathione S-transferases. The isolated enzyme preparation showed no fumarase activity, which supported the conclusion that the formation of DCE-GS was not the result of a nonenzymic reaction following the synthesis of fumarate from L-malate by the isolated enzyme. The N-terminal amino acid of this polypeptide was presumably blocked since no sequence was obtained by automatic sequencing after electro-blotting onto a siliconized-glass fiber (SGF) sheet.
Plant glutathione transferases (GSTs) are induced by diverse biotic and abiotic stimuli, and are important for protecting plants against oxidative damage. We have studied the primary transcriptional stress response of the entire Arabidopsis GST family to seven stresses, including both biotic and abiotic stimuli, with a focus on early changes in gene expression. Our results indicate that individual GST genes are highly specific in their induction patterns. Furthermore, we have been able to link individual GSTs to particular stress stimuli. Using RNAi, we successfully co-silenced a group of four phi GSTs that represent some of the most highly expressed GST genes. Despite a marked reduction in total phi GST protein levels, the transgenic plants showed no reduction in GST activity as measured using the model substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), and appeared to have surprisingly robust physical phenotypes during stress. However, analysis of metabolite pools showed oxidation of the glutathione pool in the RNAi lines, and we observed alterations in carbon and nitrogen compounds following salicylic acid and hydrogen peroxide stress treatments, indicative of oxidative modification of primary metabolism. Thus, there appears to be a high degree of functional redundancy within the Arabidopsis GST family, with extensive disruption being required to reveal the roles of phi GSTs in protection against oxidative stress.
Larvae of Coccinella septempunctata were reared on three aphid diets, consisting of pure Rhopalosiphum padi, pure Metopolophium dirhodum, and an equal mix of these aphid species. In the pupal stage, the activities of three detoxifying enzyme systems - glutathione S-transferase (GST) with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate, glutathione peroxidase with hydrogen peroxide as substrate (GSH-Px[H2O2]), and glutathione peroxidase with tert-butyl hydroperoxide as substrate (GSH-Px[TBH]) - were assayed. Growth rate, measured as the total protein content of the pupae, was significantly higher in the mixed-diet group than in the R. padi group, whereas that of the M. dirhodum group was intermediate. GST showed lower activity in larvae on a pure R. padi diet and a mixed aphid diet than on a pure M. dirhodum diet, whereas the variation in GSH-Px[TBH] was independent of diet. GSH-Px(H2O2) showed a significantly higher activity in the R. padi group than in the M. dirhodum group, whereas that of the mixed-diet group was intermediate. Thus, feeding on the low-quality aphid, R. padi, inhibited GST and activated GSH-Px(H2O2). The induction of GSH-Px[H2O2] indicated elevated oxidative stress. This may have been caused by toxic compounds in the R. padi.
1. Induction of individual isoenzymes of glutathione-S-transferase (GST) by model contaminants has been studied in the gilthead seabream Sparus aurata. The fish were exposed for 2 and 7 days to dieldrin, malathion, Aroclor 1254, paraquat and CuCl2 injected intraperitoneally at two different doses. 2. In hepatic crude extracts, modest inductions (≤ 40%) of the 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) dependent activity were produced by some of the malathion and copper (II) treatments whereas Aroclor 1254 and dieldrin provoked higher increases (up to 100%) in the ethacrynic acid (EA) dependent activity in some cases. 3. The GST isoenzyme patterns of the samples, obtained directly from the crude extracts by a rapid HPLC on-line assay method (12) were different and characteristic for each treatment. Each isoenzyme was quantified, and in all the samples tested there were one or two isoforms whose increase relative to the control was higher than that observed in the total GST activity of crude extracts. 4. These results indicate that GST activity profiles of crude extracts could be of value as biomarkers in environmental studies.
The enzymatic transfer of acetyl groups from acetylated xenobiotics to specific proteins is a relatively grey area in the evergreen field of biotransformation of foreign compounds. In this paper, we have documented evidence for the existence of a transacetylase in liver microsomes that catalyses the transfer of acetyl groups from 7,8-diacetoxy-4-methylcoumarin (DAMC) to glutathione S-transferase (GST), either purified or present in cytosol leading to the irreversible inhibition of GST. A simple procedure is described for the assay of transacetylase by preincubation of DAMC with liver microsomes and pure GST/liver cytosol, followed by the addition of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and reduced glutathione (GSH) in order to quantify GST activity by the conventional procedure. The extent of inhibition of GST by DAMC under the conditions of the assay is indicative of DAMC:protein transacetylase activity. Following the assay procedure described here, the transacetylase was shown to exhibit hyperbolic kinetics. The bimolecular nature of the transacetylase reaction was apparent by the demonstration of Km and vmax values. 7,8-Dihydroxy-4-methylcoumarin (DHMC), one of the products of transacetylase reaction was identified and quantified using the partially purified enzyme. The fact that p-hydroxymercuribenzoate (PHMB) and iodoacetamide abolished irreversible inhibition of GST upon the action of transacetylase on DAMC strongly characterized transacetylase as a protein containing thiol group at the active site. In addition, the relative specificities of acetoxy 4-methylcoumarins to transacetylase have been demonstrated.
Glutathione S-transferases, a family of enzymes that catalyze the conjugation of glutathione to a variety of substrates, are present in rat epididymis. In order to study the hormonal regulation of these enzymes in this tissue, adult rats were orchidectomized and implanted with empty or androgen-filled polydimethylsiloxane capsules. Orchidectomy alone significantly decreased caput-corpus epididymal glutathione S-transferase activity toward 2 substrates, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and trans-4-phenylbut-3-en-2-one, but had no effect on transferase activity toward the third substrate, 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene. In contrast to these results, orchidectomy did not alter glutathione S-transferase activity towards these substrates in the cauda epididymidis. Androgen replacement with testosterone prevented the orchidectomy-induced decrease in caput-corpus glutathione S-transferase activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and trans-4-phenylbut-3-en-2-one and had no effect on transferase activity toward 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene. The effects of 5 alpha-reduced metabolites of testosterone were also studied. Both dihydrotestosterone and 5 alpha-androstan-3 alpha, 17 beta-diol maintained caput-corpus glutathione S-transferase activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, although a lower dose of dihydrotestosterone was sufficient; these 1 androgens were unable to maintain activity toward trans-4-phenylbut-3-en-2-one and caused a suprastimulation of activity toward 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene above control values. The third 5 alpha-reduced androgen studied, 5 alpha-androstan-3 beta, 17 beta-diol had no effect on the transferase activity toward any of the 3 substrates. These results demonstrate that the epididymal glutathione S-transferases are under separate control and are differentially regulated by testosterone and its 5 alpha-reduced metabolites.
Mollusk cephalopods are known for their importance in trophic marine ecosystems both as predator and prey (Chouvelon et al., 2011; Clarke, 1996) . The economic importance of their fisheries has recently grown worldwide to compensate for finfish stock depletion (Jereb et al., 2005) , whereas abundant literature underlines their sensitivity to a wide range of environmental parameters (reviewed in Pierce et al., 2008) . Despite growing anthropogenic pressures on marine ecosystems, few studies investigated the potential physiological impacts of contaminants on these organisms (Di Poi et al., 2014 , 2013 Lacoue-Labarthe et al., 2010a , 2009c Sen and Sunlu, 2007 ). Yet, early life stages (i.e. eggs and juveniles) of economically important cephalopods are likely to be impacted by anthropogenic contaminants because they develop in coastal areas where these compounds are found at relatively high concentrations (Colas, 2011; Pierce et al., 2010) . This is the case of the common cuttlefish Sepia officinalis, which is characterized by inshore migration during spring and summer months to reproduce and spawn, and juvenile residence in coastal areas from 1 to 2 months post-hatching to take advantage of prey abundance (Bloor et al., 2013; Boucaud-Camou and Boismery, 1991; Le Goff and Daguzan, 1991) . In spite of the shielding properties of the eggshell against metals (Bustamante et al., 2006c (Bustamante et al., , 2004 (Bustamante et al., , 2002b Lacoue-Labarthe et al., 2011 , 2010b , 2009b , 2008b , cuttlefish embryos are impacted by low metal concentration exposure (Lacoue-Labarthe et al., 2010a , 2009a . In addition, accumulation in soft tissues of waterborne Ag, Cd, and Zn followed by relatively long-term retention was reported in juveniles (Bustamante et al., 2004 (Bustamante et al., , 2002b . Surprisingly little is known about the effects of such trace metal exposure on juvenile cuttlefish physiology (Lacoue-Labarthe et al., 2010a , 2009a . 1 1 Abbreviations: CDNB: 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene; DPP: differential pulse polarographic analysis; GSH: reduced glutathione; GST: glutathione S-transferase; HMWP: high molecular weight proteins; LPO: lipid peroxidation; MDA: malondialdehyde; MT: metallothionein; PBS: phosphate buffered saline; ROS: reactive oxygen species; SOD: superoxide dismutase.
Abstract Glutathione S -transferases (GSTs) catalyzing the conjugation of reduced glutathione (GSH) to a vast range of xenobiotics including insecticides were investigated in the psocid Liposcelis bostrychophila Badonnel. GSTs from susceptible and two resistant strains (DDVP-R for dichlorvos-resistant strain and PH 3 -R for phosphine-resistant strain) of L. bostrychophila were purified by glutathione–agarose affinity chromatography and characterized by their Michaelis–Menten kinetics towards artificial substrates, i.e., 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), in a photometric microplate assay. The specific activities of GSTs purified from two resistant strains were significantly higher than their susceptible counterpart. For the resistant strains, GSTs both showed a significantly higher affinity to the substrate GSH while a declined affinity to CDNB than those of susceptible strain. The inhibitory potential of ethacrynic acid was very effective with highest I 50 value (the concentration required to inhibit 50% of GSTs activity) of 1.21 μM recorded in DDVP-R. Carbosulfan also exhibited excellent inhibitory effects on purified GSTs. The N-terminus of the purified enzyme was sequenced by Edman degradation, and the alignment of first 13 amino acids of the N-terminal sequence with other insect GSTs suggested the purified protein was similar to those of Sigma class GSTs.
2,3,3',4,4'-Pentachlorobiphenyl, PCB-105 (IUPAC no. 105) was orally administered twice with a 4-day interval between dosings (total dose 10 mg kg(-1) body weight) to gonadally immature cod and rainbow trout of both sexes. The fish were killed 9 and 17 days after the first treatment, and the effects of PCB-105 on hepatic xenobiotic metabolising enzymes were determined by examining the cytochrome-P450-dependent ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase (EROD) and aldrin epoxidase activities, and the EROD-catalysing P450 1A1 protein by indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Glutathione S-transferase activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was included. The hepatic levels of the compound were determined. In addition, the distribution patterns of radio-labelled PCB-105 were studied by whole-body autoradiography. In exposed rainbow trout EROD activity and P450 1A1 by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) were significant induced, while GST activity was significant reduced. Exposed cod did not show significantly different enzyme values from controls, but percentage fat in the liver was significantly reduced. The whole cod liver contained about 1000 times more PCB-105 than the corresponding trout liver, and on a fat-weight basis the PCB level was five to six times higher in cod liver than in the rainbow trout liver. The autoradiographical investigation revealed high concentrations of radiolabelled compound in the liver and the brain of cod, while in rainbow trout the radiolabel was mainly confined to extrahepatic fat depots. These results demonstrate that the mono-ortho chlorinated coplanar analogue, PCB-105, has a different distribution pattern in the two fish species and that the potential for induction of the hepatic xenobiotic metabolising enzyme system seems to be lower in the cod than in the rainbow trout.
Abstract Here we described novel interactions of the mammalian selenoprotein thioredoxin reductase (TrxR) with nitroaromatic environmental pollutants and drugs. We found that TrxR could catalyze nitroreductase reactions with either one- or two-electron reduction, using its selenocysteine-containing active site and another redox active center, presumably the FAD. Tetryl and p-dinitrobenzene were the most efficient nitroaromatic substrates with a kcat of 1.8 and 2.8 s–1, respectively, at pH 7.0 and 25 °C using 50 μM NADPH. As a nitroreductase, TrxR cycled between four- and two-electron-reduced states. The one-electron reactions led to superoxide formation as detected by cytochrome c reduction and, interestingly, reductive N-denitration of tetryl or 2,4-dinitrophenyl-N-methylnitramine, resulting in the release of nitrite. Most nitroaromatics were uncompetitive and noncompetitive inhibitors with regard to NADPH and the disulfide substrate 5,5′-dithiobis(2-nitrobenzoic acid), respectively. Tetryl and 4,6-dinitrobenzofuroxan were, however, competitive inhibitors with respect to 5,5′-dithiobis(2-nitrobenzoic acid) and were clearly substrates for the selenolthiol motif of the enzyme. Furthermore, tetryl and 4,6-dinitrobenzofuroxan efficiently inactivated TrxR, likely by alkylation of the selenolthiol motif as in the inhibition of TrxR by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene/dinitrochlorobenzene (DNCB) or juglone. The latter compounds were the most efficient inhibitors of TrxR activity in a cellular context. DNCB, juglone, and tetryl were highly cytotoxic and induced caspase-3/7 activation in HeLa cells. Furthermore, DNCB and juglone were potent inducers of apoptosis also in Bcl2 overexpressing HeLa cells or in A549 cells. Based on these findings, we suggested that targeting of intracellular TrxR by alkylating nitroaromatic or quinone compounds may contribute to the induction of apoptosis in exposed human cancer cells.
The solubilities of benzene derivatives in supercritical carbon dioxide was determined by the saturation method over the pressure range (9.5 to 14.5) MPa. The solubilities were determined at (308 and 313) K for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and (308, 318, and 328) K for m-dinitrobenzene. At 308K, the solubility (in mole fraction) of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene varied from (2.83 to 5.88).10(-3) while the solubility of m-dinitrobenzene increased from (2.05 to 5.54).10(-3) as the pressure increased from (9.5 to 14.5) MPa. However, the solubilities of both compounds decreased with increasing temperature. Models based on the solubility parameter and semiempirical models such as the Mendez-Santiago-Teja model, the Gordillo model, and the association model, were used to correlate the experimental solubility data for the benzene derivatives.
Abstract Numerous xenobiotics induce microsomal enzymes such as cytochrome P -450-dependent monooxygenases, epoxide hydrolase, and UDP-glucuronyltransferase by causing an increase in enzyme synthesis. Since induction of soluble enzymes involved in phase II biotransformation has not been thoroughly studied, effects of the following microsomal enzyme inducers on three important soluble enzymes were examined: phenobarbital (PB), 3-methylcholanthrene (3-MC), butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA), isosafrole (ISF), pregnenolone-16α-carbonitrile (PCN), 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo- p -dioxin (TCDD), and trans -stilbene oxide (TSO). Representative microsomal enzymes of phase I pathways were examined simultaneously to indicate effective induction. The inducers selected produced the expected increases in hepatic cytochrome P -450 (75–170%), ethylmorphine (200–260%), and benzphetamine (100–260%) N -demethylation, benzo[ a ]pyrene hydroxylation (300%), ethoxyresorufin O -deethylation (2700%), and styrene oxide hydration (100–270%). The soluble conjugative enzymes studied were glutathione S -transferase, N -acetyltransferase, and sulfotransferase. Glutathione conjugation of 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, and sulfobromophthalein was increased by TSO (100–160%), BHA (60–80%), ISF (60–80%), and PB (60–80%). β-Naphthylamine N -acetyltransferase activity was increased by PCN and 3-MC (60 and 40%, respectively). Only PCN was able to enhance sulfotransferase. Sulfation of 2-naphthol, taurolithocholate, and dehydroepiandrosterone was increased by 28, 111, and 140%, respectively. In conclusion, while microsomal enzymes could be readily induced, activity of soluble phase II enzymes was increased to a much lesser extent. Of the inducers studied, PCN was the most effective at increasing activity of soluble enzymes.
Glutathione (GSH) conjugation is important in the detoxification of carcinogens and other exogenous electrophilic drugs and chemicals. The conjugation is catalyzed by GSH S-transferase. Neutrophil GSH content was 12.3 +/- 2.5 (mean +/- SD) nmol/10(7) cells, and transferase activity of cytosol preparations was 0.187 +/- 0.035 nmol/min/mg protein with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrate. Maximal activity was found at a pH of 7.0 and a temperature of 40 degrees C. Apparent Km of transferase was 1.25 +/- 0.18 mmol/L CDNB, and apparent Vmax was 0.621 +/- 0.22 nmol/min/mg. GSH-CDNB conjugate was quantitated by HPLC in cells and in medium after CDNB exposure. Transport of conjugate from cells to medium increased with CDNB concentration to 50 mumol/L, and kinetic data showed two saturable transport mechanisms with apparent Km of 5.90 mumol/L and 0.265 mumol/L, respectively. Cellular GSH content fell rapidly with CDNB concentration greater than 2.5 mumol/L, and was depleted in a 10-minute incubation at a concentration of greater than 50 mumol/L CDNB. Neutrophils have a significant content of GSH and a significant amount of transferase activity, and transport of GSH conjugate involves two distinct saturable pathways. GSH depletion can be accomplished with a relatively low concentration of an exogenous chemical and could impair the ability of the cells to carry out their phagocytic functions.
The glutathione S-transferase (GST) family comprises cytosolic, mitochondrial, and microsomal GSTs, all essential enzymes that metabolize a wide range of endogenous and exogenous substrates. Among the microsomal GSTs (MGSTs) in humans, MGST1, MGST2, and MGST3 are involved in detoxification; however, MGSTs have not been fully investigated in cynomolgus macaque, an important primate species widely used in drug metabolism and toxicity studies. In the present study, cynomolgus MGST2 and MGST3 cDNAs were isolated from liver tissue and characterized along with previously isolated cynomolgus MGST1. For comparison with the cynomolgus cDNAs, MGST2 and MGST3 cDNAs were also isolated from rhesus macaque (closely related to cynomolgus macaque) liver. Cynomolgus MGST2 and MGST3, respectively, were highly identical (99 and 98%) to human MGST2 and MGST3 and nearly identical to the amino acid sequences of the rhesus orthologs, and they were closely clustered with human MGST2 and MGST3 by phylogenetic analysis. The analysis of genome data indicated that MGST1, MGST2, and MGST3, respectively, had similar gene structures and genomic organization in macaque and human. Therefore, cynomolgus MGSTs have molecular similarities to the corresponding human MGSTs. Cynomolgus MGST2 and MGST3 were expressed in liver, jejunum, and kidney, but at lower levels than MGST1. GST activities were measured with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)propane as substrates, using proteins heterologously expressed in Escherichia coli. Cynomolgus MGST1, MGST2, and MGST3 conjugated 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)propane, indicating that cynomolgus MGST1, MGST2, and MGST3 are functional enzymes. These results suggest that these functional cynomolgus MGST enzymes and the corresponding human MGSTs are molecularly similar.
Abstract The bphK gene located in the bph operon of Burkholderia LB400 encodes a protein, BphK LB400 , with significant sequence similarity to glutathione-S-transferases (GST), a group of enzymes involved in the detoxification of many endobiotic and xenobiotic substances. Comparison of the amino acid sequence of BphK LB400 with GST from other polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB)-degrading bacteria identified a number of highly conserved amino acids in the C-terminal region of the protein that may be associated with substrate specificity. In this study, two of these conserved amino acids in BphK LB400 (amino acids 152 and 180) were selected for mutation, using site-directed mutagenesis, and substrate specificity assays. BphK LB400 (wildtype and mutant) was over-expressed in Escherichia coli where the bphK gene (wildtype and mutant) is under the expression of a lac promoter and is induced by isopropyl thiogalactoside, and bacterial cell extracts were prepared for GST activity assays. Mutations at amino acids 152 and 180 were shown to affect GST activity of BphK LB400 using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, the model substrate for GST activity assays; 4-chlorobenzoate and 3-chlorobenzoate, intermediates in the polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) degradation pathway, and 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetate and atrazine, commonly used herbicides; as substrates. A BphK LB400 mutant (Ala180Pro) is identified in this study as having increased activity towards all substrates tested. This mutant may have potential in bioremediation.
A simple and rapid method for the purification of glutathione S-transferase is described. The physical and kinetic properties of purified enzyme are reported. The protein is constituted of two identical subunits with a total molecular weight of 46,000 daltons. The isoelectric focusing of crude cytosol or purified preparation gives a single peak of activity with a pI of 7.1. The kinetic analysis shows a relatively strict substrate specificity. Only 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene is conjugated to reduced glutathione at an appreciable rate. The peroxidase activity of the enzyme with respect to cumene hydroperoxide as substrate is negligible. Hemin and bilirubin are competitive inhibitors of catalytic activity.
S-Nitrosylation is a ubiquitous protein modification in redox-based signaling and forms S-nitrosothiol (SNO) from nitric oxide (NO) on cysteine residues. Dysregulation of (S)NO signaling (nitrosative stress) leads to impairment of cellular function. Protein kinase C (PKC) is an important signaling protein that plays a role in the regulation of vascular function and it is not known whether (S)NO affects PKC’s role in vascular reactivity. We hypothesized that S-nitrosylation of PKC in vascular smooth muscle would inhibit its contractile activity. Aortic rings from male C57BL6 mice were treated with auranofin or 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB) as pharmacological tools, which lead to stabilize S-nitrosylation, and propylamine propylamine NONOate (PANOate) or S-nitrosocysteine (CysNO) as NO donors. Contractile responses of aorta to phorbol-12,13-dibutyrate (PDBu), a PKC activator, were attenuated by auranofin, DNCB, PANOate, and CysNO. S-Nitrosylation of PKCα was increased by auranofin or DNCB and CysNO as compared to control protein. Augmented S-nitrosylation inhibited PKCα activity and subsequently downstream signal transduction. These data suggest that PKC is inactivated by S-nitrosylation and this modification inhibits PKC-dependent contractile responses. Since S-nitrosylation of PKC inhibits phosphorylation and activation of target proteins related to contraction, this post-translational modification may be a key player in conditions of decreased vascular reactivity.
Nonoxidative alcohol metabolism to form fatty acid ethyl esters contributes to alcohol-related end-organ damage, and these products are formed by two synthase enzymes. We recently purified the major (pI 4.9) synthase from human myocardium. The N-terminal sequence (A P Y T V V Y F P V R G R X K A L R M L X A D) is greater than 73% identical with that of a neutral (pI 6.7) detoxification enzyme, glutathione transferase P from rat hepatocellular carcinoma (P P Y T I V Y F P V R G R C E A T R M L L A D). Moreover, both the major human fatty acid ethyl ester synthase and bovine liver glutathione transferase catalyze the formation of fatty acid ethyl esters (Vmax 105 and 98 nmol per hr per mg, respectively). In addition, both enzymes catalyze the formation of glutathione-xenobiotic conjugates (Vmax 67 and 335 mol per hr per mol of enzyme, respectively). Physiological concentrations of glutathione increase the rate of formation of fatty acid ethyl esters up to 5-fold, and the glutathione transferase substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene is a potent inhibitor of human myocardial fatty acid ethyl ester synthase. Thus, the identification of the major form of human myocardial fatty acid ethyl ester synthase as an acidic glutathione transferase links alcohol and xenobiotic metabolism and may relate the enhancement of tumorigenesis by alcohol abuse with carcinogen-conjugation reactions.
The titled complex is synthesized from the ethanolic solutions of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 2-thiobarbituric acid, and 2-methylpyridine and characterized by spectral and elemental analyses. The single crystal X-ray diffraction results for the complex are compatible with the spectral observations. The titled complex exhibits anticonvulsant activity and reduces all phases of convulsion even at a low dosage. Acute toxicity studies of the complex are performed to understand the safer dose concentration for clinical trials.
Abstract Cunninghamella elegans grown on Sabouraud dextrose broth had glutathione S -transferase (GST) activity. The enzyme was purified 172-fold from the cytosolic fraction (120 000× g ) of the extract from a culture of C. elegans , using Q-Sepharose ion exchange chromatography and glutathione affinity chromatography. The GST showed activity against 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, 4-nitrobenzyl chloride, and ethacrynic acid. Sodium dodecyl sulfate–polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis gel filtration chromatography revealed that the native enzyme was homodimeric with a subunit of M r 27 000. Comparison by Western blot analysis implied that this fungal GST had no relationship with mammalian α-, μ-, and π-class GSTs, although it showed a small degree of cross-reactivity with a θ-class GST. The N-terminal amino acid sequence of the purified enzyme showed no significant homology with other known GSTs.
Thiol reagents activate K-Cl cotransport (K-Cl COT), the Cl-dependent and Na-independent ouabain-resistant K flux, in red blood cells (RBCs) of several species, upon depletion of cellular glutathione (GSH). K-Cl COT is physiologically active in high potassium (HK), high GSH (HG) dog RBCs. In this unique model, we studied whether the same inverse relationship exists between GSH levels and K-Cl COT activity found in other species. The effects of GSH depletion by three different chemical reactions [nitrite (NO2)-mediated oxidation, diazene dicarboxylic acid bis-N,N-dimethylamide (diamide)-induced dithiol formation, and glutathione S-transferase (GST)-catalyzed conjugation of GSH with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB)] were tested on K-Cl COT and regulatory volume decrease (RVD). After 85% GSH depletion, all three interventions stimulated K-Cl COT half-maximally with the following order of potency: diamide > NO2 > CDNB. Repletion of GSH reversed K-Cl COT stimulation by 50%. Cl-dependent RVD accompanied K-Cl ...
Glutathione S-transferase (GST) from oat seedlings was purified by ammonium sulfate precipitation and glutathione (GSH) affinity chromatography. Sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis revealed the presence of two major protein subunits with molecular masses of 29 and 31 kDa, respectively. Isoelectric focusing revealed a major band with pI of 3.43 and a minor band with pI of 7.42. Kinetic analysis with respect to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrate revealed a Km of 1.18 mM and Vmax of 0.94 micromol/min and a specific activity of 17.96 micromol/min/mg. Inhibition studies indicated that oat GST is strongly inhibited by chlorophyllin, hemin, and anthocyanin and only weakly by bilirubin and biliverdin.
A new Tau class GST gene was cloned from Pinus brutia Ten. cDNA sequence was analysed for conserved sequences. Substrate specificity, optimum pH, and temperature values of the recombinant PbGST Tau enzyme were determined. Tau class glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are essential enzymes for detoxification in plants. To date, a lot of the members of this family have been characterized from different plants but the studies on the conifers are very scarce. This study investigates for the first time molecular cloning and biochemical characterization of a Tau class GST gene (PbGST Tau) from Pinus brutia Ten. The full length PbGST Tau ORF was 687 bp having a molecular mass of 27.37 kDa. Catalytic and ligand binding sites of PbGST Tau are well conserved and shared maximum identity with Pinus tabulaeformis GST Tau. Kinetic analysis with respect to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and ethacrynic acid (ECA) as substrates exhibited a Km of 3.66 mM and 0.3 mM, respectively. PbGST Tau enzyme had an optimum activity at pH 6.0 and 8.0 when CDNB and ECA were used as substrate, respectively. The highest activity was measured at 25 °C. Through enzyme assays, phylogenetic analysis and structural modelling, we provide a detailed characterization of the PbGST Tau gene and the enzyme. This study is going to provide new insights into the phylogenetic and biochemical analysis of GST family in conifers.
Though the effects of acupuncture in atopic dermatitis have been proven in clinical studies, its mechanism remains unclear. In this study, we investigate the effectiveness and mechanism of action for acupuncture treatment on the LI11 meridian point for treatment of allergic contact dermatitis. BALB/c mice received 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB) application to induce skin inflammation. Acupuncture treatment on LI11 significantly inhibited cutaneous hyperplasia, serum IgE levels, and expression of proinflammatory cytokine (IL-4, IL-8, and TNF-) mRNA and NF-B, ERK1/2, JNK, and p38 proteins. Acupuncture treatment of local points also inhibited cutaneous hyperplasia and serum IgE levels; however, it was not effective in regulating proinflammatory cytokines and proteins. In addition, LI11 treatment is more effective at reducing serum IgE levels and pro-inflammatory cytokines and proteins than local point treatment. These results suggest that acupuncture treatment is effective in alleviating allergic contact dermatitis by reducing pro-inflammatory cytokines and proteins.
In the present study, we employed a 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene-(DNCB-) induced model of ACD in mice. To evaluate the effects of acupuncture on ACD, we investigated changes in histology, total IgE serum levels, and mRNA expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines. In addition, the expression of NF-B and MAPKs (ERK1/2, JNK, and p38) was measured in the dorsal skin by western blot.
The glutathione S-transferase (GST) family comprises cytosolic, mitochondrial, and microsomal GSTs, all essential enzymes that metabolize a wide range of endogenous and exogenous substrates. Among the microsomal GSTs (MGSTs) in humans, MGST1, MGST2, and MGST3 are involved in detoxification; however, MGSTs have not been fully investigated in cynomolgus macaque, an important primate species widely used in drug metabolism and toxicity studies. In the present study, cynomolgus MGST2 and MGST3 cDNAs were isolated from liver tissue and characterized along with previously isolated cynomolgus MGST1. For comparison with the cynomolgus cDNAs, MGST2 and MGST3 cDNAs were also isolated from rhesus macaque (closely related to cynomolgus macaque) liver. Cynomolgus MGST2 and MGST3, respectively, were highly identical (99 and 98%) to human MGST2 and MGST3 and nearly identical to the amino acid sequences of the rhesus orthologs, and they were closely clustered with human MGST2 and MGST3 by phylogenetic analysis. The analysis of genome data indicated that MGST1, MGST2, and MGST3, respectively, had similar gene structures and genomic organization in macaque and human. Therefore, cynomolgus MGSTs have molecular similarities to the corresponding human MGSTs. Cynomolgus MGST2 and MGST3 were expressed in liver, jejunum, and kidney, but at lower levels than MGST1. GST activities were measured with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)propane as substrates, using proteins heterologously expressed in Escherichia coli. Cynomolgus MGST1, MGST2, and MGST3 conjugated 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)propane, indicating that cynomolgus MGST1, MGST2, and MGST3 are functional enzymes. These results suggest that these functional cynomolgus MGST enzymes and the corresponding human MGSTs are molecularly similar.
In this study, cDNAs encoding MGST2 and MGST3 were isolated using total RNA extracted from cynomolgus macaque liver. These MGSTs, and previously identified MGST1, were characterized by sequence and phylogenetic analyses, quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) analysis for tissue expression patterns, and enzymatic analysis using proteins heterologously expressed in Escherichia coli. dx.doi.org/10.1124/dmd.113.052977. s This article has supplemental material available at dmd.aspetjournals.org. ABBREVIATIONS: bp, base pairs; CDNB, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene; EPNPP, 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)-propane; GST, glutathione S-transferase; MAPEG, membrane-associated proteins in eicosanoid and glutathione metabolism; MGST, microsomal glutathione S-transferase; P450, cytochrome P450; PCR, polymerase chain reaction; qPCR, quantitative polymerase chain reaction; RT, reverse transcription.
Oxidant stress mediated by tert-butyl hydroperoxide (t-BOOH) inhibits agonist-stimulated Ca2+ entry and internal store Ca2+ release in cultured endothelial cells. The role of intracellular glutathione in modulating the effects of oxidant stress on Ca2+ signaling was determined in cells preincubated with buthionine-[S,R]-sulfoximine (BSO), an inhibitor of gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase, or 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), a cosubstrate for glutathione-S-transferase. BSO and CDNB decreased endothelial cell glutathione content by 85 and 97%, respectively (control glutathione, 21.5 +/- 2.3 nmol/mg protein). Each agent accelerated the time-dependent effects of t-BOOH on Ca2+ signaling in fura 2-loaded cells and potentiated the inhibition of bradykinin-stimulated 45Ca2+ efflux induced by t-BOOH. These results indicate that decreased availability of reduced glutathione, the primary cosubstrate for glutathione peroxidase, potentiates the effect of hydroperoxide oxidant stress on receptor-operated Ca2+ entry...
1,2,3,6-Tetrahydropyridines are known to possess analgesic, anti-inflammatory, hyperglycemic and hypoglycemic activities. Substituted 2,4-dinitrophenylpyridinium chlorides 3 were formed by reacting 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene with hydroxypropyl, hydroxymethyl and benzyl substituted pyridines 2. Attack of the pyridinium chlorides 3 with pyridylcarbonyl hydrazides or benzoyl hydrazides 4 gave the isolable 2,4-dinitroanilino derivative 5 which underwent hydrolysis when refluxed in water:p-dioxane mixture (1:4 v/v) to afford the pyridinium ylides 6. Sodium borohydride reduction of 6 in absolute ethanol at 0° for 4–6 hours resulted in the isolation of the 1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridines 7 in good yields.
Abstract Presence of a new form of glutathione S-transferase has been demonstrated in human erythrocytes. using two different affinity ligands this enzyme has been separated from the previously characterized glutathione S-transferases ϱ. The new enzyme is highly basic with a pI of > 10. The new enzyme which represents less than 5 percent of glutathione-S-transferase activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate and about 10 percent of total glutathione S-transferase protein of erythrocytes has different amino acid composition, substrate specificities, and immunological characteristics from those of the major erythrocyte glutathione S-transferase ϱ. Immunological properties of the new enzyme indicate that this form may be different from other glutathione S-transferases of human tissues.
Abstract To determine the mechanisms which mediate species- and treatment-related differences in susceptibility to aflatoxin B 1 (AFB), we conducted a comparative study of the effects of dietary butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA) on the hepatic in vivo DNA binding and in vitro biotransformation of AFB in the rat and mouse. Mice are resistant to the hepatocarcinogenic effects of AFB, and BHA pretreatment has been shown to inhibit the carcinogenic effects of AFB in the highly susceptible rat. Rats and mice were fed a control diet or an identical diet containing 0.75% BHA for 10 days. On the 11th day, one-half of the control and BHA animals were administered [ 3 H]AFB (0.25 mg/kg in dimethyl sulfoxide) via intraperitoneal injection. Animals were killed 2 hr later and covalent binding of AFB to hepatic DNA was determined. The remaining animals were killed for preparation of hepatic subcellular fractions used in in vitro assays. BHA treatment resulted in a decrease in in vivo hepatic AFB-DNA adduct formation in mice to 68% of control, but, in rats, treatment decreased AFB-DNA binding to 18% of control. Furthermore, hepatic AFB-DNA binding in control mice was only 1.2% of that measured in control rats. The rate of in vitro activation of AFB to the epoxide was 3.4-fold greater in control mice relative to control rats. BHA pretreatment increased the activation of AFB in mice 3.3-fold, but had no effect on oxidative metabolism in rats. Control mice had 52 times greater glutathione S -transferase (GST) activity toward the AFB-epoxide, but only 2.6 times greater GST activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), compared to that of control rats. In mice, BHA did not significantly increase GST activity toward the AFB-epoxide, but increased GST activity toward CDNB 3.1-fold. In rats, BHA increased GST activity toward the AFB-epoxide and CDNB by 3.2- and 2.1-fold, respectively. Epoxide hydrolase activity toward p -nitrostyrene oxide in mice was only 52% of the activity in rats. BHA increased epoxide hydrolase activity 3.8- and 2.5-fold in mice and rats, respectively. These data indicate that mice have high levels of an AFB-epoxide-specific GST activity relative to that of the rat. The rate of formation of the AFB-epoxide and the activity of epoxide hydrolase appear to be relatively unimportant under conditions of high GST activity, whereas elevated GST activity, and thus inactivation of the AFB-epoxide, appears to be the critical component in species- and BHA-induced differences in AFB-DNA adduct formation and, presumably, AFB hepatocarcinogenicity.
ABSTRACT Glutathione transferases (GSTs) (E.C.2.5.1.18) are multifunctional enzymes involved in the detoxification of many exogenous and endogenous compounds. This study aimed to characterize several new GSTs from Anopheles cracens, a major Thai malaria vector formerly known as Anopheles dirus. The three recombinant enzymes obtained were from the epsilon, theta and omega classes. They showed 80–93% identity to orthologous An. gambiae GSTs. AcGSTE2-2 possessed peroxidase activity that cannot be detected for the An. gambiae AgGSTE2-2. AcGSTT1-1 had high activity toward several substrates that are specific for mammalian theta class. The AcGSTO1-1 can use 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, dichloroacetic acid, and hydroxyethyl disulfide substrates. The enzymes bound but did not metabolize the organophosphate temephos. The epsilon AcGSTE2-2 functioned as a peroxidase and DDT metabolizing enzyme. The theta AcGSTT1-1 functioned not only as peroxidase but also acted as a binding protein for organophosphates. The omega ...
Glutathione-S-transferase has been detected in the somatic extract and excretory–secretory products of different life stages of Setaria cervi, a bovine ﬁlarial parasite. The enzyme was subjected to MALDI-TOF followed by mass spectrometry and the nearest match found was Pleuronectes platessa GST. Molecular mass of the puriﬁed enzyme was $\approx 26$ kDa as determined by SDS–PAGE and MALDI-TOF. Setaria cervi GST exhibited high activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and ethacrynic acid. Kinetic analysis with respect to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and glutathione as substrate revealed a $K_m$ of 2.22 mM and 0.61 mM, respectively. The activity was inhibited signiﬁcantly by Cibacron blue and $\alpha$ -tocopherol.
The soluble glutathione S-transferase (GST) isoenzymes from rat testicular tissue were separated in one chromatographic run on carboxymethyl cellulose. GST was measured with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as the second substrate. The following percentages for the different isoenzymes were found: GST AA: 12.6%, GST A:8.1%, GST B:4.2%, GST C:18.1%, GST D and E: not detected, GST x:7.4%, and anionic GST:49.6%. These values were quite different from those found in liver tissue. Testicular GST could not be induced by the drug metabolizing enzyme inducers trans-stilbene oxide, DDT, and phenobarbital. The high GST content in rat testes may suggest that these enzymes function also in this tissue in the metabolism and detoxification of electrophilic xenobiotics.
Rat basophilic leukemia cells have frequently been employed for investigating the pathways of leukotriene biosynthesis, a class of biologically active arachidonic acid metabolites. However, information is lacking on the levels of selenium-dependent glutathione peroxidase (Se-GSH-Px), non-Se-GSH-Px and glutathione S-transferases (GSH-S-Trs), key enzymes involved in fatty acid hydroperoxide metabolism and leukotriene biosynthesis in these cells. Both GSH-S-Trs and non-Se-GSH-Px reactions are catalyzed by the same enzyme. In the present studies, we have measured the enzyme activities of GSH-Px(s) and GSH-S-Trs in the 105,000 X g supernatant fraction of sonified RBL-1 cells. The specific activities for GSH-Px(s) toward H2O2, cumene hydroperoxide, and 15S-hydroperoxy-eicosatetraenoic acid (15S-HPETE) are 12.6, 17.9 and 26.9 nmoles X min-1 X mg-1 protein, respectively. A specific activity of 18.9 nmoles X min-1 X mg-1 protein with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was estimated for the GSH-S-Trs. Therefore, the cell fraction that exhibits 5-lipoxygenase activity also contains selenium and non-selenium glutathione peroxidases.
Prostaglandin H-E isomerase (EC 5.3.99.3) was purified from human brain cytosol. Purification was by ammonium sulfate fractionation, diethylaminoethyl-Sepharose chromatography, gel filtration on a BioGel P-100 column, GSH-agarose chromatography, and MonoQ chromatography. The activity was eluted in two peaks from the MonoQ column, which were designated peaks 1 and 2. The molecular weights of peaks 1 and 2, determined by gel filtration, were 42,000 and 44,000, respectively. On sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, peak 1 showed two bands at the molecular weights of 24,500 and 25,000, and peak 2 showed a single band at the molecular weight of 25,000, results suggesting that both were dimeric proteins. The pI values of both enzymes were approximately 5.4. The enzymes catalyzed selective conversion of prostaglandin H2 to prostaglandin E2. The Km values for prostaglandin H2 of peaks 1 and 2 were 147 and 308 microM, respectively, and the Vmax values were 380 and 720 nmol/min/mg of protein, respectively. GSH was required for the catalysis of both enzymes, and no other sulfhydryl compounds could support the reaction. A part of glutathione S-transferase (EC 2.5.1.18) was copurified with peaks 1 and 2 of prostaglandin H-E isomerase. Prostaglandin H-E isomerase activity of peak 2 enzyme was competitively inhibited by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, a substrate of glutathione S-transferase. These results suggested that prostaglandin H-E isomerases in human brain cytosol were identical with anionic forms of glutathione S-transferase.
The liver is the main organ of drug metabolism, but the expression and induction by xenobiotics of drug-metabolizing enzymes is also often observed in extrahepatic tissues. Recently, we reported that lipophilic cytochrome P450 inducers, β-naphthoflavone (BNF), phenobarbital, and dexamethasone, induced CYP1, CYP2B, and CYP3A enzymes, respectively, in rat epididymal white adipose tissue (WAT) at both mRNA and protein levels. To further confirm the xenobiotic-induced expression of drug-metabolizing enzymes in adipose tissue, we studied the induction of CYP1A1 and other detoxifying enzymes by aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) agonists and antioxidants. BNF increased CYP1A1 mRNA levels in several visceral WATs (epididymal, perirenal, and mesenteric) to a greater degree than in subcutaneous WAT in rats. Using C57BL/6 and DBA/2 mice with different responsiveness to aryl hydrocarbons and detecting cytoplasmic levels of AhR proteins, we have demonstrated that AhR mediates this CYP1A1 induction by BNF in WAT. Moreover, the NF-E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2)/antioxidant responsive element pathway is also functional in WAT, since BNF, which is known to activate both AhR and Nrf2, and antioxidants including tert -butylhydroquinone, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, and menadione induced the expression of Nrf2-target genes (NAD-(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase, glutathione S -transferase A subunits, and heme oxygenase-1) in rats and mice. These results suggest that both AhR and Nrf2 pathways are active in WAT and that lipophilic compounds accumulated in WAT can activate these transcription factors to increase detoxification capability in the tissue.
An increase in cytosolic free calcium ([Ca(2+)](i)) is one of the earliest events to occur in T lymphocytes following stimulation of the transmembrane T cell receptor/CD3 complex (TCR/CD3). This [Ca(2+)](i) mobilization has been found to be sensitive to intracellular thiol redox status, which in turn is modulated by cellular glutathione (GSH) content. We have previously reported that GSH depletion, by treatment with either the alpha, beta-carbonyl diethyl maleate or the aromatic halo-compound 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, correlates with decreased [Ca(2+)](i) mobilization in anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody (mAb)-stimulated human peripheral blood lymphocytes (HPBL). This prompted us to determine whether this correlation between GSH content and TCR/CD3 signal transduction capability was also present in murine lymphocytes, since the mouse model is often used as a surrogate for the human immune system. The results presented here demonstrate that in vitro treatment with the alpha, beta-carbonyl phorone dose-dependently depletes intracellular GSH in murine splenic T lymphocytes. Both CD4(+) and CD8(+) T lymphocytes depleted of GSH by greater than 40% were found to have a decreased [Ca(2+)](i) mobilization following anti-CD3 mAb stimulation. Similar to what has been described for HPBL, these results indicate that the cellular GSH status influences the initial response of murine T lymphocytes to TCR/CD3 stimulation.
The mechanism of activation of microsomal glutathione transferase in isolated liver cells by diisapropylidene acetone (phorone) was investigated. Phorone (1 mM) causes a time-dependent increase (up to 2.6-fold) in the glutathione transferase activity of microsomes isolated from treated hepatocytes. Since phorone reacts with sulfhydryl groups, the possibility that this compound activated microsomal glutathione transferase directly was studied. It was found that neither the activity of the purified enzyme nor that in isolated microsomes is affected by phorone. It has been suggested [Masukawa T and Iwata H, Biochem Pharmacol 35: 435-438, 1986] that activation of microsomal glutathione transferase by phorone in vivo is mediated through thiol-disulfide interchange involving oxidized glutathione (GSSG). It is shown here that the glutathione transferase activity of isolated microsomes, which was increased by the addition of 10 mM GSSG, can be decreased to the basal level with 0.1 M dithioerythritol. Dithioerythritol, on the other hand, only marginally decreases the glutathione transferase activity in microsomes isolated from phorone-treated hepatocytes. This finding argues against a role for thiol-disulfide interchange in the activation of the enzyme by phorone. Furthermore, the glutathione depletion caused by phorone does not seem to be responsible for activation per se, since other thiol depletors [e.g. diethylmaleate (DEM)] do not affect the activity of the enzyme. Immunoblot analysis of microsomes isolated from phorone-treated hepatocytes did not reveal any partial proteolysis which might have accounted for the activation. It is suggested that activation of microsomal glutathione transferase by phorone proceeds through a mechanism which might reflect an in vivo regulation of this enzyme. Additional compounds which have been shown to activate the microsomal glutathione transferase in vivo were also tested and significant activation was obtained with 1,2-dibromoethane (1.4-fold) but not with DEM or carbon tetrachloride. Activation was also obtained with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) (1.6-fold) and to a small extent with t-butyl hydroperoxide (1.2-fold). The activation by 1,2-dibromoethane and CDNB is probably mediated through covalent binding, considering the known alkylating properties of these compounds. CDNB is the first substrate shown to activate the microsomal glutathione transferase implying that electrophilic compounds which are substrates can increase the rate of their own elimination by reacting with this enzyme. In addition, activation by t-butyl hydroperoxide indicates that oxidative stress can activate microsomal glutathione transferase.
Glutathione S-transferases (EC 2.5.1.18) (GSTs), are a family of multifunctional enzymes present in all living organisms whose main function is the detoxification of electrophilic compounds. GSTs are considered the most prominent detoxifying class II enzymes in helminths. We describe here the characterization of novel dehydroascorbate reductase and thiol transferase activities that reside in the human parasite Schistosoma mansoni GSTx. Protein sequence analysis of this parasite product showed lower identity to known GSTs. However, phylogenic analysis placed SmGSTx among the recently described omega class GSTs (GSTO1-1). We report here that SmGSTO protein is a 28-kDa polypeptide, detected in all life stages of the parasite, being highly expressed in adult worms. Like other omega class GSTs, SmGSTO showed very low activity toward classical GSTs substrates as 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, and no binding affinity to glutathione-agarose matrix but showed some biochemical characteristics related with thioredoxins/glutaredoxins. Interestingly, SmGSTO was able to bind S-hexyl glutathione matrix and displayed significant glutathione-dependent dehydroascorbate reductase and thiol transferase enzymatic activities.
A chemical plant, where an increased number of non-Hodgkin's lymphomas and myelomas had been observed, was monitored for genotoxic effects occurring in peripheral mononuclear leukocyte samples from 76 exposed workers. Biochemical markers sensitive to DNA repair and drug metabolism were used as the indicators of genotoxic risk. Unscheduled DNA synthesis (UDS) and covalent binding induced by N-acetoxy-N-acetyl-2-aminofluorene (NA-AAF) and constitutive and gamma ray induced adenosine diphosphate ribosyl transferase (ADPRT) activities were highly and significantly elevated over the corresponding values for a control group of 48 postal workers. Microsomal and soluble epoxide hydrolases and glutathione transferase activities directed towards trans-stilbene oxide and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene were not significantly altered in the exposed group. The exposure in this factory was complex, involving over 100 chemicals including several well known carcinogens. However, no apparent significant associations to exposure could be established.
The structural gene for glutathione S-transferase (CeGST1-1) in the fungus Cunninghamella elegans was cloned by screening a cDNA library using a degenerate oligonucleotide probe based on the N-terminal sequence of the purified protein. Open reading frame analysis indicated that the cegst1 gene encodes a protein of 210 amino acid residues. The deduced amino acid sequence showed 25% sequence identity with the sequence of the Pi-class GST from Danio rerio (zebrafish). Similarity was also shown with the Alpha-class GST from Fasciola hepatica (liver fluke; 23% identity), the Mu class from Mus musculus (22%) and the Sigma class from Ommastrephes sloani (squid; 21%). Further screening of a cDNA library with the cegst1 gene probe revealed the presence of another GST isoenzyme (CeGST2-2) in this fungus, which shows 84% sequence identity with CeGST1-1 at the amino acid level. Reverse transcription PCR revealed that cegst2 was also expressed at the mRNA level in the fungus C. elegans. Both cegst genes were overexpressed in Escherichia coli using the expression vector pQE51, displaying specific activities with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene of 2.04 and 0.75 micromol/min per mg of protein respectively. Both enzymes exhibited a similar substrate specificity and inhibition profile, indicating that CeGST1-1 and CeGST2-2 belong to the same GST class. Mutagenesis analysis revealed that Tyr(10) in the N-terminal region is essential for catalysis of CeGST1-1. We propose from these results that the CeGSTs are novel Gamma-class GSTs and designated as GSTG1-1 and GSTG2-2 respectively.
There is evidence that glutathione conjugates are the major metabolites formed following systemic uptake of carcinogenic contaminants from the intestine. The effect of commercial diet versus a semi-purified diet on the distribution of glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity was examined in proximal, medial, and distal sections of catfish intestine. The bulk of GST activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, ethacrynic acid, and 3H-benzo[a]pyrene-4,5-oxide, and the percent cytosolic protein cross-reacting with anti-catfish GST-pi were in the more proximal segments and dropped off distally in the two diet groups. However, the total GST-pi cross-reacting protein in the proximal section was significantly higher in fish fed a chow diet. Western blot analysis revealed pi-class GST to be expressed principally in the proximal intestine. Cytosol samples cross-reacted with antibodies to human GST-alpha, -mu, and -pi, but not -theta, classes. Alpha-like GST isoforms of MW 26,200 and 24,600, absent in sections from fish fed a purified diet, were differentially expressed only in the distal section of chow-fed fish. These results indicate that diet significantly elicits regional differences in GST protein levels, that components of the commercial chow affect GST protein expression in the distal intestine, and that maintenance diet should be taken into consideration during dietary exposure studies.
Glutathione S-transferase (GST) expression was examined in hepatic cytosol from rats and rabbits treated with 4-picoline, pyrrole, pyridine, pyrazine, imidazole, or piperidine using enzymatic activity, SDS-PAGE, and immunoblot analyses and the results were compared to those obtained with phenobarbital and 3-methylcholanthrene. SDS-PAGE and immunoblot analyses of hepatic cytosol prepared from rats treated with pyrazine revealed the induction of class α (Ya and Yc) and μ (Yb) bands with a corresponding 2.4-fold increase in metabolic activity using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate. A new class α band migrating in the region of the Yc band was observed in the SDS-PAGE and detected in the immunoblot of cytosol from pyrrole-treated rats, whereas treatment with 4-picoline, imidazole, or piperidine failed to alter the expression of the major classes of GST isozymes in this species. SDS-PAGE and immunoblot analyses of rabbit hepatic cytosol revealed a unique species-dependent difference in the expression of GSTs. While phenobarbital and 3-methylcholanthrene induce class α and μ GST expression in rat hepatic cytosol, one of the most interesting observations was that neither of these agents stimulated GST expression in the rabbit. Immunoblot analysis of cytosol isolated from 4-picoline-treated rabbits using GST class α-specific IgG showed the appearance of a novel class α 28-kDa GST band and the concomitant disappearance of a class α 29-kDa GST band. In addition, SDS-PAGE and immunoblot analyses showed that treatment of rabbits with pyrrole, pyrazine, imidazole, or piperidine resulted in the disappearance of this class α 29-kDa GST band with no detectable expression of the class α 28-kDa GST band; the level of the class α 29-kDa band was unaffected by pyridine treatment. In contrast, immunoblot analyses of hepatic cytosol revealed that a 25.5-kDa class μ GST band disappeared following treatment with pyridine, but was unaffected by treatment with other nitrogen heterocycles. The Vmax of glutathione conjugation to the substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene decreased by 52, 36, 59, 41, 37, and 32% in hepatic cytosol isolated from 4-picoline-, pyrrole-, pyridine-, pyrazine-, imidazole-, and piperidine-treated rabbits, respectively. The results suggest that nitrogen heterocycles differ in their ability to modulate glutathione S-transferase isozyme expression in rat and rabbit hepatic tissue and that rabbit hepatic GSTs are refractory to induction by agents such as pyrazine, phenobarbital, or 3-methylcholanthrene and hence these xenobiotics do not appear to be bifunctional inducers in this species.
The role of glutathione (GSH) in cellular protection mechanisms in round spermatids from hamsters was studied. Isolated spermatids were largely depleted of GSH by treating the cells for 2 h with the GSH conjugating agent diethyl maleate (DEM). This treatment resulted in a 90% decrease of the cellular GSH content, but did not affect the ATP content. Exposure of isolated spermatids to cumene hydroperoxide (CHP), a compound which is detoxicated by the GSH redox cycle, showed that the cytotoxicity of the peroxide was markedly potentiated by GSH depletion of the cells. The cytotoxicity was reflected by the cellular ATP content. A decrease of the ATP content of the GSH-depleted spermatids was observed at 5-6-fold lower CHP concentrations, as compared to control cells. An increased cytotoxicity in GSH-depleted cells was also observed using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), which is a reactive compound that is detoxicated by glutathione conjugation. The induction of single-strand DNA breaks by gamma radiation was 3-5-fold higher in GSH-depleted spermatids as compared to control cells. This radiation-induced damage was estimated under hypoxic conditions (500 p.p.m. O2 in N2). GSH depletion did not affect the repair of single-strand DNA breaks following the irradiation. The present results indicate that cellular GSH has an important function in the defence mechanisms of round spermatids against peroxides, electrophilic xenobiotics and radiation-induced DNA damage.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are important as drug metabolizing enzymes mainly in the detoxication process. To assess individual differences in susceptibility to different chemicals, it would be useful to know the activity of specific GST isozymes in individuals. In order to study individual variability, typical substrates specific for the three major classes of GSTs were used not only as substrates but also as inhibitors using 17 organ-donor livers. Out of 17, 4 livers were low in the mu-form isozyme, judging from the depressed GST activity for trans-4-phenyl-3-buten-2-one (tPBO), a mu-class substrate. The range of tPBO activity exhibited more than 20-fold variation, while less than 2-fold variation was observed in the activities for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), a non-specific substrate for alpha-, mu-, and pi-class GSTs. In addition to the conventional approach to assessing individual variability, well known substrates for GSTs, cumene hydroperoxide (CHP, alpha-class), tPBO (mu) and ethacrynic acid (EA, pi) were used as inhibitors against CDNB-GSH conjugation. CHP inhibited the CDNB-GSH conjugation in mu-depressed livers more potently than in the non-depressed livers, probably because CHP is a specific inhibitor for alpha-class GST. Inhibition by CHP may therefore be used to detect livers which are low in mu-form. The inhibition by tPBO was found to be weak and the variability was small (CV of 9% in 17 livers). EA potently inhibited GST activity with its inhibition constant (Ki) 2,000-fold lower than that of CHP. The small individual variation in inhibition by EA (CV of 6%) supported that EA is a universal but potent inhibitor against major GSTs contained in human liver.
Abstract The nucleophilic substitution reaction between glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene has been studied at temperatures between 4 and 42°C and pH values between 6.99 and 10.80. The apparent enthalpy, entropy and free energy of ionization of the thiol group have been estimated as have the apparent enthalpy, entropy and free energy of activation of the reaction between the glutathione thiolate anion and the aromatic electrophile. The results obtained permit the calculation of values of the second order rate constant governing the reaction at a range of temperatures and pHs. These values are in accord with those reported in the literature from experimental work by others. The major glutathione S-transferase from Galleria mellonella has been studied with respect to its kinetic responses to changes in pH and temperature. There appear to be two kinetically critical ionizations governing the reaction at high pH. These ionization events are characterized by apparent p K a values of 8.61 ± 0.15 and 9.16 ± 0.22. A thermodynamic model of the kinetic behavior of the enzyme permits the prediction of its activity over a range of pH and temperature values. The apparent free energy of activation for the enzyme catalyzed reaction is only 7% lower than that for the non-catalyzed reaction between 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and glutathione thiolate anion. This observation is compatible with the suggestion that promotion of the ionization of the glutathione thiol group is the major mechanism of catalysis.
The spontaneous reaction of 110 microM chlorambucil (4-[p-[bis(2-chloroethyl)amino]phenyl]-butanoic acid; CHB) with 5 mM GSH at 37 degrees C in physiological phosphate-buffered saline for 35 min gave primarily the monoglutathionyl derivative, 4-[p-[N-2-chloroethyl,N-2-S-glutathionylethyl]amino]phenyl]-butano ic acid; CHBSG) and the diglutathionyl derivative, 4-[p-[bis(2-S-glutathionylethyl]amino]phenyl]-butanoic acid (CHBSG2) with small amounts of the hydroxy-derivatives: 4-[p-[N-2-chloroethyl,N-2-hydroxy-ethyl]amino] phenyl-butanoic acid (CHBOH) and 4-[p-[N-2-S-glutathionylethyl-2-hydroxyethyl]amino]phenyl]-butanoi c acid (CHBSGOH). The inclusion of approximately physiological amounts of human glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) A1-1, A2-2, P1-1, M1a-1a M3-3 or P1-1 (for nomenclature see Mannervik et al., 1992, Biochem. J., 282, 305) had little or no catalytic effect on these reactions as determined by loss of CHB. However, GTSs A1-1 and A2-2 were associated with a significant increase of CHBSG at the expense of CHBSG2 + CHBSGOH suggesting that these GTs sequestered CHBSG at the active site. This interpretation was supported by inhibition studies which showed that CHBSG was a pure competitive inhibitor of the activity of GSTs A1-1 and A2-2 towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene with Ki's of 1.3 and 1.2 microM respectively. GSH transferases P1-1 and M1a-1a were inhibited by CHBSG above 10 microM. Incubation of 2 microM CHB, a concentration which may be of more significance for chemotherapy, in the presence or absence of GST A1-2 (20-50 microM) showed catalysis of GSH monoconjugation equivalent to 18% of the spontaneous rate. However, the dominant effect again was the sequestration of CHBSG which reached 74.3 +/- 1.5 (SEM)% of the total reactants at 60 min compared to 28.9 +/- 0.3(SEM)% in controls. CHBSG, although possessing a potential electrophilic centre, showed no detectable alkylation of plasmid DNA but indirect evidence was obtained that it alkylated other cellular macromolecules. It is concluded that the contribution of GSTs to catalysis of CHB detoxication will depend on factors not previously considered, namely the relative molarities of CHB, CHBSG and GSTs, and the cellular capacity to excrete CHBSG to relieve product inhibition.
Abstract Fast protein liquid chromatography (anion exchange) was used to separate glutathione S-transferase isozymes in nontreated etiolated maize shoots and those treated with the herbicide safener CGA -1542814-(dichloroacetyl)-3,4-dihydro-3-methyl-2 H-1 ,4-benzoxazine. Nontreated shoots contained isozymes active with the following substrates: trans-cinnamic acid (1 isozyme), atrazine (3 isozymes), 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (1 isozyme), metolachlor (2 isozymes) and the sulfoxide derivative of S-ethyl dipropylcarbamothioate (2 isozymes). Pretreatment of shoots with the safener CGA -154281 (1 μM) had no effect on the activity of the isozymes selective for trans-cinnamic acid and atrazine but increased the activity of the constitutively-expressed isozymes that exhibit activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, metolachlor and the sulfoxide derivative of S-ethyl dipropylcarbamothioate. The safener pretreatment also caused the appearance of one new isozyme active with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and one new isozyme active with metolachlor. The results illustrate the complexity of glutathione S-transferase activity in etiolated maize shoots, and the selective enhancement of glutathione S-transferase isozymes by the safener CGA -154281.
Thimerosal, a mercury derivative composed of ethyl mercury chloride (EtHgCl) and thiosalicylic acid (TSA), is widely used as a preservative in vaccines and cosmetic products and causes cutaneous reactions. Since dendritic cells (DCs) play an essential role in the immune response, the sensitization potency of chemicals was studied in vitro using U937, a human promyelomonocytic cell line that is used as a surrogate of monocytic differentiation and activation. Currently, this cell line is under ECVAM (European Center for the Validation of Alternative Methods) validation as an alternative method for discriminating chemicals. Thimerosal and mercury derivatives induced in U937 an overexpression of CD86 and interleukin (IL)-8 secretion similarly to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB), a sensitizer used as a positive control for DC activation. Non-sensitizers, dichloronitrobenzene (DCNB), TSA and sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS), an irritant, had no effect. U937 activation was prevented by cell pretreatment with N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC) but not with thiol-independent antioxidants except vitamin E which affected CD86 expression by preventing lipid peroxidation of cell membranes. Thimerosal, EtHgCl and DNCB induced glutathione (GSH) depletion and reactive oxygen species (ROS) within 15 min; another peak was detected after 2h for mercury compounds only. MitoSOX, a specific mitochondrial fluorescent probe, confirmed that ROS were essentially produced by mitochondria in correlation with its membrane depolarization. Changes in mitochondrial membrane permeability induced by mercury were reversed by NAC but not by thiol-independent antioxidants. Thimerosal and EtHgCl also induced a calcium (Ca2+) influx with a peak at 3h, suggesting that Ca2+ influx is a secondary event following ROS induction as Ca2+ influx was suppressed after pretreatment with NAC but not with thiol-independent antioxidants. Ca2+ influx was also suppressed when culture medium was deprived of Ca2+ confirming the specificity of the measure. In conclusion, these data suggest that thimerosal induced U937 activation via oxidative stress from mitochondrial stores and mitochondrial membrane depolarization with a primordial effect of thiol groups. A cross-talk between ROS and Ca2+ influx was demonstrated.
Objective To observe the effect of reduced glutathione (GSH) and glutathione depleting agent 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) on the susceptibility of adult Schistosoma japonicum to artemether (Art) in combination with hemin in vitro. . Methods. In vitro, malondialdehyde(MDA) levels were determined in five-week-old worms incubated without or with Art, hemin, GSH, and CDNB, either alone or in combination, for 24 h, and the remaining worms were continuously incubated up to 96 h for worm survival assessment. In vivo, GSH levels were determined in worms freshly recovered from mice 6, 12 and 24 h after treatment with Art 300 mg/kg. . Results . In vitro, GSH decreased the proportion of worms killed by Art plus hemin, but CDNB rendered the worms susceptible to the killing. The above-mentioned distinguishing features of GSH and CDNB were associated with their reverse effect on worm lipid peroxidation induced by Art-hemin system. In vivo, Art led to a slight decrease followed by a significant increase in the parasite GSH levels. . Conclusion . GSH might play an important role in the defense of the worms against Art-generated toxic peroxides and free radicals.
Observed second-order rate constants for the hydroxydechlorination of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (2), 2-chloro-3,5-dinitrobenzoate ions (3) and 4-chloro-3,5-dinitrobenzoate ions (4) in micelles of cetyltrialkylammonium bromide (C16H33NR3Br, where R = Me, Et, n-Pr and n-Bu) are reported. For substrate 2, the observed catalysis increased as the size of the micellar head group was increased. This was shown to be primarily due to an increase in the rate of reaction in the micellar pseudo-phase (k). For substrates 3 and 4, the observed catalysis decreased as the size of the micellar head group was increased. Much smaller changes in k were observed in these reactions, which lead to a dianionic intermediate which is more sensitive to polarity effects at the micelle surface than is the monoanionic intermediate formed from 2. These results support the contention that as the size of the micellar head group is increased, water is squeezed away from the micelle surface, resulting in a less polar reaction environment.
Glutathione transferase P1-1 is over expressed in some cancer cells and contributes to detoxification of anticancer drugs, leading to drug-resistant tumors. The inhibition of human recombinant GSTP1-1 by natural plant products was investigated using 10 compounds isolated from plants indigenous to Southern and Central Africa. Monochlorobimane and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene were used to determine GST activity. Each test compound was screened at 33 and 100 µM. Isofuranonapthoquinone (1) (from Bulbine frutescens) showed 68% inhibition at 33 µM, and sesquiterpene lactone (2) (from Dicoma anomala) showed 75% inhibition at 33 μM. The IC(50) value of 1 was 6.8 μM. The mode of inhibition was mixed, partial (G site) and noncompetitive (H site) with K(i) values of 8.8 and 0.21 µM, respectively. Sesquiterpene 2 did not inhibit the CDNB reaction. Therefore, isofuranonapthoquinone 1 needs further investigations in vivo because of its potent inhibition of GSTP1-1 in vitro.
Summary The spontaneous reaction of 110 ILM chlorambucil (4-[p-[bis(2-chloroethyl) However, GTSs Al-I and A2-2 were associated with a significant increase of CHBSG at the expense of CHBSG2 + CHBSGOH suggesting that these GTSs sequestered CHBSG at the active site. This interpretation was supported by inhibition studies which showed that CHBSG was a pure competitive inhibitor of the activity of GSTs Al-l and A2-2 towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene with Ki's of 1.3 and 1.2 tiM respectively. GSH transferases P1-1 and Mla-la were inhibited by CHBSG above 10 LM.
BACKGROUND ::: Gram-positive bacteria in the phylum Firmicutes synthesize the low molecular weight thiol bacillithiol rather than glutathione or mycothiol. The bacillithiol transferase YfiT from Bacillus subtilis was identified as a new member of the recently discovered DinB/YfiT-like Superfamily. Based on structural similarity using the Superfamily program, we have determined 30 of 31 Staphylococcus aureus strains encode a single bacillithiol transferase from the DinB/YfiT-like Superfamily, while the remaining strain encodes two proteins. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: We have cloned, purified, and confirmed the activity of a recombinant bacillithiol transferase (henceforth called BstA) encoded by the S. aureus Newman ORF NWMN_2591. Moreover, we have studied the saturation kinetics and substrate specificity of this enzyme using in vitro biochemical assays. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: BstA was found to be active with the co-substrate bacillithiol, but not with other low molecular weight thiols tested. BstA catalyzed bacillithiol conjugation to the model substrates monochlorobimane, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, and the antibiotic cerulenin. Several other molecules, including the antibiotic rifamycin S, were found to react directly with bacillithiol, but the addition of BstA did not enhance the rate of reaction. Furthermore, cells growing in nutrient rich medium exhibited low BstA activity. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: BstA is a bacillithiol transferase from S. aureus that catalyzes the detoxification of cerulenin. Additionally, we have determined that bacillithiol itself might be capable of directly detoxifying electrophilic molecules. ::: ::: ::: GENERAL SIGNIFICANCE ::: BstA is an active bacillithiol transferase from S. aureus Newman and is the first DinB/YfiT-like Superfamily member identified from this organism. Interestingly, BstA is highly divergent from B. subtilis YfiT.
Early investigations have shown that many chemically different compounds can cause disturbances of the spindle function (c-mitosis) in eukaryotic cells and that there is an unspecific (physical) mechanism based on the partitioning of the compound into cellular hydrophobic compartments. This suggests that the approach should be quantitative when testing compounds for this type of activity in vitro; effect/no effect is not the most pertinent question. The present study demonstrates how a set of reference compounds can be used in attempts to identify compounds that act by a more specific (chemical) mechanism to disturb the spindle function. All experiments were performed with an established cell line (V79 Chinese hamster). The results suggest that there is a good qualitative coupling in these cells between c-mitosis and aneuploidy with chemical treatment. Among compounds that are particularly active in relation to their lipophilic character are some chlorophenols, caffeine, diamide, diethyl maleate, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and tertiary butylhydroperoxide. This points to Ca2+-sequestering by mitochondria and/or cellular pH regulation (chlorophenols), Ca2+ release and sequestering by the endoplasmic reticulum (caffeine), enzymatic conjugation to glutathione (diethyl maleate, chlorodinitrobenzene) and hydroperoxide metabolism (t-butylhydroperoxide) as important target functions for specific activity.
The metabolism of [14C]tetrachloroethylene (Tetra) and its metabolite S-(1,2,2-trichlorovinyl)-L-cysteine (TCVC) was investigated with in vitro systems to substantiate metabolic pathways of Tetra deduced from in vivo experiments. In the presence of NADPH, rat hepatic microsomal fractions metabolized Tetra to soluble metabolites, which were identified as trichloroacetic acid and oxalic acid by gas chromatography/mass spectroscopy and a metabolite largely bound to microsomal macromolecules. The majority of the alkylated macromolecules were identified as N-trichloroacetylated phospholipids by high performance liquid chromatography and GC/MS. When Tetra was incubated with hepatic microsomes and cytosol in the presence of 10 mM glutathione, but in the absence of NADPH, the formation of a polar metabolite other than trichloroacetic acid and oxalic acid was observed. This metabolite was identified, after hydrolysis to the corresponding cysteine conjugate, as S-(1,2,2-trichlorovinyl)-glutathione (TCVG). Microsomal GSH S-transferases catalyzed TCVG formation more efficiently than cytosolic GSH S-transferases; the competitive substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene inhibited TCVG formation. In the presence of both NADPH and GSH, TCVG formation in microsomes was decreased, indicating that oxidative metabolism and GSH conjugation of Tetra are competitive reactions. The Tetra metabolite TCVC was cleaved by bacterial cysteine conjugate b-lyase to dichloroacetic acid and pyruvate. The obtained results substantiate the postulated pathways of Tetra biotransformation and demonstrate that both oxidative and conjugative reactions occur in hepatic Tetra metabolism. Phospholipid alkylation, which occurs during oxidative metabolism, may be a deactivation reaction, whereas TCVG formation, renal metabolism to TCVC, and cleavage of TCVC by b-lyase under formation of mutagenic intermediates may contribute to the nephrocarcinogenic effect of Tetra.
Abstract GSTs are a group of multifunctional enzymes, whose major functions involve catalysis of conjugation of glutathione thiolate anion with a multitude of bi-substrates or transportation of a range of hydrophobic ligands. Helminth GSTs are intimately involved in the scavenging of endogenously/exogenously-derived toxic compounds and xenobiotics. In this study, we identified a novel GST gene of Taenia solium metacestodes (TsMs), which is a causative agent of neurocysticercosis. The 804 bp-long cDNA encoded a 639 bp open reading frame (212 amino acid polypeptide), which exhibited the structural motif and domain organisation characteristic of GST. It formed a strong clade with trematode and insect σGSTs. We designated this cDNA as TsM σ-like GST (TsMσGST). Native TsMσGST identified through gel filtration combined with compatible immunoproteomics consisted of four isoforms at approximately 25 kDa with different pIs between 8.2 and 8.7. TsMσGST showed an enzyme activity as a homodimer and was specifically expressed in the scolex cytosol. The recombinant TsMσGST expressed in Escherichia coli showed σ-like activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). The V max and Km for CDNB and glutathione (GSH) were 1.08 and 0.78 μmol/min/mg, and 0.16 and 0.17 mM, respectively. Its optimal activity was observed at pH 8.0 and at 40 °C. The enzyme activity was potently inhibited by bromosulfophthalein, and to a lesser extent by rose bengal and triphenyltin chloride. Albendazole and praziquantel non-competitively inhibited both G- and H-sites of the enzyme. To our knowledge this is the first description of the σ-class GST in cestode parasites. The enzyme might be involved in scavenging of intracellularly generated xenobiotics during homeostatic processes and anthelminthic metabolisms. Revelation of biochemical and biological properties of TsMσGST might allow us to understand pathobiological events inherent to this long-standing parasitic disease, and thus to target therapeutic intervention.
: Glutathione-S-transferase (GST) was isolated from the northern hardshell clam Mercinaria mercinaria (quahog) using a two-step procedure involving ammonium sulfate precipitation and affinity chromatography. Kinetic analysis of the purified enzyme using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate revealed a specific activity of 38.0 µmol min-1 mg-1, while Vmax and Km values were estimated as 48.0 µmol min-1 mg-1 and 0.24 mM, respectively. Electrophoretic analysis of GST indicated multiple forms of the dimeric enzyme in quahogs with subunit molecular masses of 22, 24, 25, and 27 kDa. Isoelectric focusing analysis resulted in pI values for three isoenzymes of 5.1, 4.9, and 4.6. The acidic pI values obtained indicated that quahog GST belongs to the pi class. Inhibition of quahog GST by tetrapyrroles was similar to that of GST from oyster and rat liver. Quantitative comparison of tetrapyrrole inhibition patterns of quahog GST with those of oyster and rat liver GST indicated lower inhibition rates by three of the four tetrapyrroles tested (bilirubin, biliverdin, and chlorophillyin), suggesting that quahog GST could differ structurally or functionally from oyster and rat liver GSTs.
Abstract A cDNA library was constructed from mRNA of the rhesus monkey kidney cell line, FRHK, and the cDNA sequence for an FRHK glutathione S -transferase (GST) Pi was determined using a RACE method. This represents the first full-length monkey GST Pi sequence to be cloned and determined. The similarity to the human GST Pi was found to be extensive (more than 97%), the deduced protein differing only in six amino acids (aa) positions. FRHK GST Pi was expressed in bacteria and a recombinant protein was purified which demonstrated significant activity towards the substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and 1,2-epoxy-3- para -nitrophenoxypropane. Western blots also showed significant amounts of protein, both in the FRHK cells and transformed bacteria. The FRHK GST Pi was found to contain a phenylalanine at aa position 68, a position which is otherwise invariably occupied by an isoleucine in the GST Pi, Alpha, Mu and Beta class enzymes investigated. An isoleucine in this position is thus not essential for activity in the FRHK enzyme, unlike the human GST π , where the exchange of Ile 68 to a tyrosine (Manoharan, T.H, Gulick, A.M., Puchalski, R.B., Servais, A.L., Fahl, W.E., 1992. J. Biol. Chem., 267, 18940–18945), resulted in total loss of activity. Phe 68 was mutated to Ile in the FRHK GST Pi enzyme to determine whether the wild type amino acid conferred an impaired catalytic site. The resulting mutant did not show any changes in activity towards CDNB, clearly demonstrating that isoleucine at position 68 is not essential. Thus, the first monkey GST Pi enzyme has been characterized, an enzyme with many similarities to the human forms although it differs in an otherwise conserved residue at aa position 68. This difference does not appear to affect the function of the FRHK GST Pi.
cDNA encoding an unclassified glutathione S-transferase (GST) of the diamondback moth, Plutella xylostella, was cloned by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. The resulting clone was sequenced and the amino acid sequence deduced, revealing 67%-73% identities with unclassified GSTs from other organisms. A recombinant protein was functionally overexpressed in Escherichia coli cells in a soluble form and purified to homogeneity. The enzyme was capable to catalyze the transformation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and ethacrynic acid with glutathione. A competition assay revealed that GST activity was inhibited by insecticides, suggesting that the enzyme could contribute to insecticide metabolism in the diamondback moth.
To clarify which of the two genes for pi class glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) (p-1 and p-2) is dominantly expressed in mouse hepatic adenomas, the relative mRNA levels were examined by means of the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Hepatic adenomas were induced in male and female B6C3F1 mice by diethylnitrosamine treatment. Northern blot analysis revealed that pi class mRNA levels were decreased in adenomas of male mice, but increased in those of females, with reference to the respective surrounding non-adenoma tissues. In contrast to the marked sex difference in surrounding tissues, pi class GST mRNA levels in adenomas were almost the same in both males and females. To evaluate p-1 and p-2 mRNA levels separately, the products of RT-PCR employing primers common for both cDNAs were digested with the endonuclease BanI (specific for p-2) and then resolved by electrophoresis. The p-1 mRNA was thus found to be dominant in adenomas of both female and male mice. The p-2 mRNA levels were increased in the lesions as compared with those in the surrounding non-adenoma tissues. Recombinant p-1 and p-2 proteins were expressed in Escherichia coli. Unlike p-1. the p-2 protein did not show any significant activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and did not bind to S-hexylglutathione-Sepharose despite immunological cross-reactivity. The dominant pi class form in adenomas could also be identified as p-1 by its binding to S-hexylglutathione-Sepharose. Single radial immunodiffusion analyses confirmed that the p-1 protein levels were in line with the mRNA findings, i.e., 1.9±0.3 mg/g adenoma as compared to 6.5±1.2 mg/g non-adenoma tissue for males and 2.2±0.6 mg/ g as compared to 0.7±0.2 mg/g for females. The results thus indicated that the change of pi class forms in adenomas is caused mainly by alteration in the p-1 level and the contribution of p-2 is minimal.
Abstract The biochemical effects in the livers of male rats of prolonged administration of the experimental hepatocarcinogen nafenopin, a hypolipidemic agent and peroxisome proliferator, were compared to those of another experimental liver carcinogen, phenobarbital, which acts as a neoplasm promoter. Feeding of nafenopin, 0.03 mmol/kg basal diet for up to 24 weeks increased the numbers of hepatic peroxisomes, increased catalase activity, markedly decreased cytosolic glutathione transferase activities toward two substrates, decreased cytosolic glutathione peroxidase activities toward H 2 O 2 and two organic peroxides, and suppressed the age-related increase in γ-glutamyl transpeptidase activity. In contrast the livers of rats fed an equimolar concentration of phenobarbital displayed increases in cytosolic glutathione transferase activities and enhancement of γ-glutamyl transpeptidase activity but no changes in glutathione peroxidase activities. There was also an enhancement of catalase activity without apparent increase in peroxisome number. Enzyme kinetic analyses revealed that the cytosolic glutathione transferase activities toward two halogenonitrobenzene substrates were inhibited in the rats fed nafenopin and displayed elevated K m and decreased V max . Kinetic studies of glutathione transferase activities in which nafenopin was mixed with normal rat liver cytosols in the assay system revealed competitive type inhibition toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and a noncompetitive type of inhibition toward 3,4-dichloronitrobenzene. Likewise activities of glutathione peroxidases toward H 2 O 2 and cumene hydroperoxide were suppressed by in vitro addition. Thus the effects of nafenopin and phenobarbital on liver biochemistry were very different. The inhibition of hepatic biotransformation and scavenger systems by nafenopin is suggested to be relevant to its hepatocarcinogenicity.
Abstract A cDNA encoding an omega-class glutathione S-transferase of the silkmoth, Bombyx mori (bmGSTO), was cloned by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. The resulting clone was sequenced and deduced for amino acid sequence, which revealed 40, 40, and 39% identities to omega-class GSTs from human, pig, and mouse, respectively. A recombinant protein (rbmGSTO) was functionally overexpressed in Escherichia coli cells in a soluble form and purified to homogeneity. rbmGSTO was able to catalyze the biotranslation of glutathione with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, a model substrate for GST, as well as with 4-hydroxynonenal, a product of lipid peroxidation. This enzyme was shown to have high affinity for organophosphorus insecticide and was present abundantly in silkmoth strain exhibiting fenitrothion resistance. These results indicate that bmGSTO could be involved in the increase in level of insecticide resistance for lepidopteran insects.
1. Age- and sex-related patterns in the activity of hepatic phase 2 conjugating enzymes have been studied in Sprague-Dawley (CD) rats. 2. Epoxide hydrolase activity with styrene oxide ranged from 75 to 346 nmol/min per g and increased with age in males, peaking at week 78. In females, activity remained constant, about 80 nmol/min per g. 3. UDP-glucuronosyl transferase activity with p-nitrophenol ranged from 480 to 1050 nmol/min per g; maximal activity was at week 39. Males had greater activity at weeks 12 to 39. Activity with chloramphenicol ranged from 3.8 to 10.3 nmol/min per g with no consistent age or sex relationship. 4. Glutathione S-transferase ranged from 9.5 to 23.6 mumol/min per g with p-nitrobenzyl chloride and from 29.1 to 66.8 mumol/min per g with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, peaking at week 51 with both substrates. Males had greater activity from weeks 12 to 78. 5. Reduced glutathione varied between 3.2 and 6.5 mumol/g, with males tending to have higher concentrations than females and older rats (greater than 39 weeks) having slightly lower concentrations. 6. PAPS sulphotransferase ranged from 190 to 338 nmol/min per g, with maximal activity at week 78 with no consistent sex-related differences.
We have previously shown that oleanolic acid (OA) protects mice against the hepatotoxicity of carbon tetrachloride, acetaminophen, bromobenzene, thioacetamide, furosemide, phalloidin, colchicine, cadmium, D-galactosamine and endotoxin. This study was designed to examine whether OA modulates hepatic toxicant-activating and detoxifying systems as a means of protection. Mice were treated with OA (100 and 200 mumol/kg s.c.) for 3 days, and liver microsomes and cytosols were prepared 24 hr after the last dose. OA produced a dose-dependent reduction in liver microsomal cytochrome P450 (P450) levels (25-37%) and cytochrome b5 (15-21%) content, but had no effect on NADPH-cytochrome c reductase activity. OA treatment also decreased several P450 enzyme activities, such as coumarin 7-hydroxylation (45%), 7-pentoxyresorufin O-dealkylation (35%), 7-ethoxyresorufin O-dealkylation (25%) and chlorzoxazone 6-hydroxylation (20%). Treatment of mice with OA decreased caffeine N3-demethylation (40%), but had no effect on caffeine 8-hydroxylation. OA treatment decreased testosterone 6 alpha- and 15 alpha-hydroxylation (40-50%) and androstenedione formation (35%), but slightly increased testosterone 1 alpha/beta-, 2 beta- and 6 beta-hydroxylation. Consistent with enzyme activities, OA decreased the amounts of mouse liver CYP1A and CYP2A enzymes, but had no appreciable effect on CYP3A enzymes, as determined by immunoblotting with antibodies against rat P450 enzymes. OA treatment slightly increased liver glutathione (GSH) content and the activity of GSH S-transferases toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, but had no effect on GSH peroxidase and GSH reductase. The activities of superoxide dismutase and DT-diaphorase were unaffected by OA treatment. At the high dose of OA, catalase activity was decreased by 20%.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A patient with unexplained erythrocyte glutathione-S-transferase (GST) deficiency has been detected among 513 unrelated persons with hemolytic anemia. An otherwise healthy adult male, the deficient individual had a mild hemolytic anemia with splenomegaly, indirect hyperbilirubinemia, and cholelithiasis. Because he was adopted and childless, the hereditary nature of the defect could not be established. The residual enzyme activity was only about 15% of mean normal. Depletion of glutathione (GSH) from the cells by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), a substrate for GST, was somewhat decreased in the red cells from the patient, suggesting that a functional defect existed. The kinetic properties of the residual enzyme and the ratio of activity to antigenicity were normal. Modest decreases in leukocyte and platelet GST activities were documented. Although a cause-and-effect relationship between the GST deficiency and hemolysis may exist, this cannot be proven in the absence of affected family members.
Glutathione-S-transferase (GST) isozyme-selective inhibitors were designed by an empirically guided strategy. In the first phase, literature data were used to select C-terminal modifications which generated maximum variation in the catalytic efficiency (Vmax/Km) for glutathione (GSH) analogs used as substrates with different rat GSTs. Also, on the basis of literature data, the sulfhydryl group was functionalized with a selection of alkyl and aryl groups to maximize potential isozyme specificity. Affinity chromatography sorbents were prepared from these which showed isozyme selectivity for both rat tissue and recombinant human GST isozymes. Some of these compounds also showed selective inhibition of GST activity in catalysis of the reaction of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene with GSH. In the second phase, electronic effects were explored through synthesis of an isostructural series of S-benzyl GSH ligands with different substituents on the aromatic ring. GST isozyme specificity for these ligands, measured by binding to derivatized sorbents, varied substantially, with hydrophobic substituents favoring the human GST M1a isozyme and electronegative moieties favoring GST P1. In the third phase, information obtained from testing both series of compounds was combined and used to prepare GSH analogs with chemical features responsible for isozyme specificity at both the C-terminus and the sulfur. This approach gave two new compounds which showed improved potency while still maintaining selectivity in the inhibition of GSTs. A detailed discussion of the logic used in the selection of functional groups for maximum potency and selectivity is included.
1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), a potent substrate for glutathione S-transferase, is known to rapidly deplete cellular glutathione (GSH) via conjugate formation. Treatment of quiescent 3T3 cells with 5 uM CDNB results in disassembly of microtubules (MT) within 1 hr as revealed by indirect immunofluorescence microscopy. In addition, CDNB treatment also induces dramatic morphologic alterations similar to those mediated by colchicine. Furthermore, taxol prevents both MT disassembly and morphologic changes normally occurring in CDNB as well as colchicine-treated cells. The mechanism of CDNB-mediated MT disassembly in vivo and its possible relationship to cellular GSH metabolism are under current studies.
The present study demonstrates that mitochondrial cytochrome c reacts with the thiol-reacting agent N-ethylmaleimide (NEM) to produce a one NEM-adducted cytochrome c. Mitochondrial cytochrome c also reacts with 5,5′-dithio-bis-(2-nitrobenzoic acid) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in a manner prevented with NEM or iodoacetic acid (IAA). NEM-treated cytochrome c has lower reducibility and lower function to support mitochondrial oxygen consumption. These findings suggest that mitochondrial cytochrome c contains a reactive thiol that is involved in the functions of cytochrome c for mitochondria. Nitric oxide reacts with the cytochrome c thiol to generate S-nitroso (SNO)-cytochrome c in a manner prevented with NEM or IAA. SNO-cytochrome c has lower reducibility and function to support mitochondrial oxygen consumption, similar to NEM-treated cytochrome c.
Polymorphic glutathione S-transferase (GST) enzymes are involved in the metabolism of xenobiotics. They are of particular interest when studying disease susceptibility and adverse drug responses. The present work deals with the genetic polymorphisms and expression of the five GST classes (alpha, mu, pi, theta and zeta) in human lung and hepatocyte cell lines. We have determined their bioavailability for in vitro approaches. Common genetic polymorphisms of GSTM1 (*0, null), GSTT1 (*0) and GSTP1 (*A/*B, I105V) are detectable. The frequencies of the polymorphisms are within the expected range for a Caucasian population with one exception. The GSTM1*0 allele is 1.5-fold more frequent in lung cell lines. GST mRNAs are frequently but not uniformly distributed among unstimulated in vitro conditions. Lung cell lines show an approximately six-fold higher total GST transcript expression than hepatocyte cell lines. Additional GST transcripts have been identified for GSTT1; they represent alternative new splicing variants that occur in cancerous cell lines and in healthy lung tissue and blood. GST enzyme activity is mainly influenced by GSTP1. The activity promoted by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene is significantly correlated to the GSTP1 mRNA expression level (R2=0.77, P<0.001). Individual human cell lines thus express GST isoenzymes in a similar pattern to human tissue. The most common genetic polymorphisms are present among the cell lines and have to be considered for in vitro stimulation approaches in a combinatory pattern.
Fluoroacetate-specific defluorinase (FSD) is a critical enzyme in the detoxication of fluoroacetate. This study investigated whether FSD can be classed as a glutathione S-transferase (GST) isoenzyme with a high specificity for fluoroacetate detoxication metabolism. The majority of FSD and GST activity, using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)propane (EPNP) as GST substrates, in rat liver was cytosolic. GSTT1 specific substrate, EPNP caused a slight non-competitive inhibition of FSD activity. CDNB, a general substrate of GST isoenzyme, was a more potent non-competitive inhibitor of FSD activity. The fluoroacetate defluorination activity by GST isoenzymes was determined in this study. The results showed that the GSTZ1C had the highest fluoroacetate defluorination activity of the various GST isoenzymes studied, while GSTA2 had a limited activity toward fluoroacetate. The human GSTZ1C recombinant protein then was purified from a human GSTZ1C cDNA clone. Our experiments showed that GSTZ1C catalysed fluoroacetate defluorination. GSTZ1 shares many of the characteristics of FSD; however, it accounts only for 3% of the total cytosolic FSD activity. GSTZ1C based enzyme kinetic studies has low affinity for fluoroacetate. The evidence suggests that GSTZ1 may not be the major enzyme defluorinating fluoroacetate, but it does detoxify the fluoroacetate. To clarify the identity of enzymes responsible for fluoroacetate detoxication, further studies of the overall FSD activity are needed.
We recently demonstrated activation of 5-lipoxygenase activity in human polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMN) on preincubation of the cells with glutathione-depleting agents, namely 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (Dnp-C1) and azodicarboxylic acid bis[dimethylamide] (diamide). In this paper we show that Dnp-C1, but not diamide, impairs the reduction of added organic peroxides in whole PMN. Also, since co-incubation of fatty acid hydroperoxides with arachidonate caused activation of 5-lipoxygenase, we propose that Dnp-C1 increases the peroxide level in PMN which is required for the onset of lipoxygenase activity. This could be substantiated in PMN homogenates by a glutathione-dependent depression of arachidonate 5-lipoxygenation. At higher arachidonate concentrations and in the presence of Ca2+ the glutathione effect was not observed but additional glutathione peroxidase also blocked this maximally stimulated 5-lipoxygenase. Together with other experiments, it became obvious that the formation of leukotrienes, but also of 15-lipoxygenase products, requires a sharply defined threshold level of fatty acid hydroperoxides which are generated by the lipoxygenases and counteracted by glutathione-dependent peroxidase(s). Dnp-C1 influences this equilibrium by removing glutathione and thereby inhibiting glutathione-dependent peroxidase activity. From our data we conclude that it is the physiological function of the peroxidase activity in PMN to determine an efficiently regulated threshold level of hydroperoxide products, below which no activation of 5-lipoxygenase or 15-lipoxygenase can occur.
Human thioredoxin reductase is a dimeric enzyme that catalyzes reduction of the disulfide in oxidized thioredoxin by a mechanism involving transfer of electrons from NADPH via FAD to a redox-active disulfide. 1-Chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB) is an alkylating agent used for depleting intracellular GSH and also showing distinct immunomodulatory properties. We have discovered that low concentrations of DNCB completely inactivated human or bovine thioredoxin reductase, with a second order rate constant in excess of 200 M-1 s-1, which is almost 10,000-fold faster than alkylation of GSH. Total inactivation of 50 nM reduced thioredoxin reductase was obtained by 100 microM DNCB after 5 reductase was obtained by 100 microM DNCB after 5 min of incubation at 20 degrees C also in the presence of 1 mM GSH. The inhibition occurred with enzyme only in the presence of NADPH and persisted after removal of DNCB, suggesting alkylation of the active site nascent thiols as the mechanism of inactivation. Thioredoxin reductase modified by DNCB lacked reducing activity with oxidized thioredoxin, 5,5'-dithiobis-(2-nitrobenzoic acid), or sodium selenite. However, the DNCB-modified enzyme oxidized NADPH at a rate of 4.7 nmol/min/nmol of enzyme in the presence of atmospheric oxygen. This activity was not dependent on the presence of DNCB in solution and constituted a 34-fold increase of the inherent low NADPH oxidase activity of the native enzyme. DNCB is a specific inhibitor of mammalian thioredoxin reductase, which reacted 100-fold faster than glutathione reductase. The inactivation of the disulfide reducing activity of thioredoxin reductase and thioredoxin with a concomitant large increase of the NADPH oxidase activity producing reactive oxygen intermediates may mediate effects of DNCB on cells in vivo.
To clarify which of the two genes for pi class glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) (p-1 and p-2) is dominantly expressed in mouse hepatic adenomas, the relative mRNA levels were examined by means of the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Hepatic adenomas were induced in male and female B6C3F1 mice by diethylnitrosamine treatment. Northern blot analysis revealed that pi class mRNA levels were decreased in adenomas of male mice, but increased in those of females, with reference to the respective surrounding non-adenoma tissues. In contrast to the marked sex difference in surrounding tissues, pi class GST mRNA levels in adenomas were almost the same in both males and females. To evaluate p-1 and p-2 mRNA levels separately, the products of RT-PCR employing primers common for both cDNAs were digested with the endonuclease BanI (specific for p-2) and then resolved by electrophoresis. The p-1 mRNA was thus found to be dominant in adenomas of both female and male mice. The p-2 mRNA levels were increased in the lesions as compared with those in the surrounding non-adenoma tissues. Recombinant p-1 and p-2 proteins were expressed in Escherichia coli. Unlike p-1, the p-2 protein did not show any significant activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and did not bind to S-hexylglutathioneSepharose despite immunological cross-reactivity. The dominant pi class form in adenomas could also be identified as p-1 by its binding to S-hexylglutathione-Sepharose. Single radial immunodiffusion analyses confirmed that the p-1 protein levels were in line with the mRNA findings, i.e., 1.9± ± ± ±0.3 mg/g adenoma as compared to 6.5± ± ± ±1.2 mg/g non-adenoma tissue for males and 2.2± ± ± ±0.6 mg/ g as compared to 0.7± ± ± ±0.2 mg/g for females. The results thus indicated that the change of pi class forms in adenomas is caused mainly by alteration in the p-1 level and the contribution of p-2 is minimal.
K-Cl cotransport is activated by swelling, lowering of cellular free Mg (Mgi), and thiol modification of erythrocytes. Direct actions by thiol reagents on the K-Cl cotransport complex were separated from indirect effects through nonoxidative changes in cellular glutathione (GSH). We used 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), which, conjugated to GSH, is extruded from the erythrocyte as a thioether. CDNB caused a small biphasic effect (inhibition and stimulation) on K-Cl cotransport and, at 1 mM, abolished its stimulation by N-ethylmaleimide (NEM), diazenedicarboxylic acid bis[N,N-dimethylamide], methyl methanethiosulfonate, and staurosporine, a kinase inhibitor, independent of the order of treatment. Hence, NEM and other activating-thiol reagents, and perhaps GSH removal itself, target unidentified kinases involved in activation of K-Cl cotransport. CDNB also abrogated K-Cl cotransport stimulation by Mgi depletion independent of the order of treatment, indicating inhibition at a second site nearer to the transporter. Furthermore, CDNB treatment elevated and rendered K-Cl cotransport insensitive to osmotic shrinkage, suggesting uncoupling from the regulator.
Coffee drinking has been associated with reduced incidence of colorectal cancer, possibly via chemoprotection/modification of the metabolism of dietary heterocyclic amine carcinogens such as 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo-[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP) by kahweol and cafestol palmitates (K/C), two components of unfiltered coffee. Using the PhIP-exposed male Fisher F344 rat as a model, K/C have been shown to reduce colonic PhIP-DNA adducts by > 50%. We have used the male F344 rat to investigate the effects of dietary K/C (0.02–0.2% as a 1:1 mixture) on the metabolism of PhIP by N-acetyltransferase- (NAT), sulfotransferase- (SULT), and glutathione-dependent pathways. K/C decreased hepatic NAT-dependent PhIP activation by up to 80% in a dose-dependent manner. Conversely, hepatic glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity/expression increased, e.g., 3–4 fold toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (total activity), up to 23-fold toward 4-vinylpyridine (rGSTP1), and ∼ 7-fold for rGSTA2 protein. These effects had fully developed after 5 days of the test diet and persisted for at least 5 days after withdrawal of K/C. Hepatic glutathione increased two- to threefold and this increase was more short-lived than other changes. K/C did not modify hepatic SULT activity or colon NAT and GST activities. Benzylisothiocyanate and black tea, which have also been shown to reduce the formation of PhIP-DNA adducts in this model, had little effect on hepatic NAT, SULT, GST, or GSH. In primary culture of rat hepatocytes, both kahweol and cafestol palmitates reduced NAT activity by 80%. In summary, the unique potential of K/C to convert rapid acetylators to a slow acetylator phenotype, accompanied by GST induction, might contribute to chemoprevention against cancers associated with heterocyclic amines. Environ. Mol. Mutagen. 44:265–276, 2004. © 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
The cytotoxicity of eugenol to replicating cells, as mediated by the intracellular level of glutathione and by metabolic activation, was evaluated with the neutral red (NR) assay. The cytotoxicity of eugenol to human HFF fibroblasts and human HepG2 hepatoma cells was increased somewhat in the presence of a hepatic S-9 microsomal fraction from Aroclor-induced rats or hamsters. Exposure of human HepG2 hepatoma cells to eugenol depleted the level of intracellular glutathione. Cells treated with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) or buthionine sulphoximine (BSO), agents that deplete intracellular glutathione, were hypersensitive to eugenol. A 1-hr pretreatment with CDNB enhanced the cytotoxicity of eugenol, as did a 24-hr pretreatment with BSO. Intracellular glutathione levels were, apparently, significant in mediating the toxicity of eugenol.
There is evidence that increased expression of glutathione S-transferase (EC: 2.5.1.18, GST) is involved in resistance of tumor cells against chemotherapeutic agents. In this study we investigated the inhibitory effects of thonningianin A (Th A), a novel antioxidant isolated from the medicinal herb, Thonningia sanguinea on uncharacterized rat liver GST and human GST P1-1. Using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrate, rat liver cytosolic GST activity was inhibited by Th A in a concentration dependent manner with 50% inhibition concentration (IC50) of 1.1 microM. When Th A was compared with known potent GST inhibitors the order of inhibition was tannic acid>cibacron blue>hematin>Th A>ethacrynic acid with CDNB as substrate. Th A also exhibited non-competitive inhibition towards both CDNB and glutathione. Furthermore, using 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, ethacrynic acid and 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy) propane as substrates Th A at 1.0 microM inhibited cytosolic GST by 2%, 12% and 36% respectively. Human GST P1-1 was also inhibited by Th A with an IC50 of 3.6 microM. While Th A showed competitive inhibition towards CDNB it exhibited non-competitive inhibition towards GSH of the human GST P1-1. These results suggest that Th A represents a new potent GST in vitro inhibitor.
Research of antioxidant properties of herbal thiol compounds is scarce. The main non-enzymatic antioxidant compounds in animal cell are GSH and cysteine. Therefore, in this work, we studied the redox effects of a Chenopodium quinoa Willd (Quinoa) coats extract previously titrated in its polyphenol and thiol compounds. The effects of quinoa extract on rat liver cytosolic and microsomal GSH-transferase was tested. The catalytic active form of this enzyme is its disulphide dimer, and then its reduction provokes its inactivation. Quinoa extract inhibited both enzymatic activities in a concentration-dependent manner. The reducing power of this extract was significantly higher than N -acetyl-cysteine and dithiothreitol. Low concentrations of quinoa extract (without surfactant properties) decrease the apparent V max of both cytosolic and microsomal GST, increase their apparent GSH K m and not modify their apparent K m for substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Redox effects of Quinoa extract would be the main cause involved in the inhibition of GSH-transferase activities. Moreover, thiol compounds present in this extract and not polyphenols seem to be the most important reducing agents acting on disulphide bond of GST active dimer. New pharmacological experiments are being carried out in order to evaluate the redox importance of thiol compounds present in this Quinoa extract.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES ::: Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are phase II metabolizing enzymes which catalyze the conjugation of glutathione (GSH) to electrophilic substrates and possess selenium-independent glutathione peroxidase activity. The GST enzyme family includes the cytosolic isoforms GST-alpha, mu (GSTM), pi (GSTP), theta (GSTT) and sigma (GSTS). GSTT1, P1 and M1 are polymorphic and altered polymorphic frequency of genes encoding these proteins has been suggested as a potential risk factor for the development of hematopoietic malignancies. Overexpression of GSTs has also been implicated in chemotherapeutic drug resistance. This study was undertaken to elucidate the potential functional relevance of these genetic polymorphisms in hematopoiesis. ::: ::: ::: DESIGN AND METHODS ::: GST genotype of 14 hematopoietic cell lines was determined by polymerase- chain-reaction (PCR). Gene expression of GSTs in a cell line was detected by real-time quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) on TaqMan 7700 and by semi-quantitative RT-PCR. Cytosolic GST protein expression was detected by Western blot. GST conjugation activity was assayed using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrate. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: GSTP1 expression was higher than other GSTs in 13/14 cell lines and paralleled CDNB conjugation activity. GSTP1 and GSTM1 predominated in lymphoid lines whilst T1 expression was relatively greatest in erythroid lines but was absent in 7/12 non-null lines. GSTT2 was expressed in only 3/4 lines. The 3 cell lines which expressed GSTA1 were all erythroid. ::: ::: ::: INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS ::: Glutathione S-transerases showed differential lineage expression in hematopoietic cell lines. This implies a greater cytoprotective role for GSTT1 and GSTA1 in erythroid cells and GSTM1 in lymphoid cells. We postulate that inherited gene deletion of GSTT1 and M1 may produce increased genotoxic susceptibility for erythroid and lymphoid cell respectively, following exposure to xenobiotics that are substrates for these enzymes.
Glutathione conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, NBD-Cl, monobromobimane and monochlorobimane was found to occur in epidermal tissue of onion bulbs (Allium cepa L.). Conjugation required the presence of glutathione S-transferases (GST). In order to follow glutathione conjugation microscopically, bimanes were utilized. Monochlorobimane was converted to a brightly fluorescing conjugate that was shown to be transported to the nucleus before sequestration in the vacuole occurred. GST activity was stimulated as well as induced by several electrophilic xenobiotics, by cycloheximide and by several glutathione conjugates. γ-Glutamylcysteine conjugates that are formed during enzymatic cleavage of glutathione conjugates in plants, were not active as inducers of enzyme activity. In the light of the stimulating effects of xenobiotic glutathione conjugates on GST activity, it is concluded that glutathione conjugates may act as signal molecules.
Summary: The presence of glutathione transferase (GST; EC 2.5.1.18) in Escherichia coli ATCC 25922, E. coli ATCC 25422, Proteus vulgaris ATCC 8427, Pseudomonas aeruginosa ATCC 27853, Klebsiella oxytoca CIP 666, K. oxytoca AF 101, Enterobacter cloacae CIP 6085, Serratia marcescens CIP 6755, and Proteus mirabilis AF 2924 was investigated. Using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate, GST activity was found in the glutathione- (GSH-) affinity-purified fraction of all strains tested. SDS-PAGE analysis of GSH-affinity-purified enzyme indicated that the GSTs of all these bacteria are dimers of two identical subunits of M ::: r about 22500. Rabbit antiserum directed against the major isoenzyme present in Proteus mirabilis AF 2924, Pm-GST-6·0, was used to investigate the antigenic properties of bacterial GSTs. Western blot analysis indicated that a GST antigenically identical to Pm-GST-6·0 is present in Enterobacter cloacae CIP 6085, Escherichia coli ATCC 25422 and Proteus vulgaris ATCC 8427, but absent in Escherichia coli ATCC 25922, Klebsiella oxytoca CIP 666, K. oxytoca AF 101 and Serratia marcescens CIP 6755. The presence of Pm-GST-6·0, but not mammalian GST, increased the MIC values of amikacin, ampicillin, cefotaxime, cephalothin and nalidixic acid for E. coli ATCC 25922. It is suggested that bacterial GST may represent a defence against the effects of antibiotics.
Abstract Glutathione transferase (GST) A3-3 is the most efficient human steroid double-bond isomerase known. The activity with Δ5-androstene-3,17-dione is highly dependent on the phenolic hydroxyl group of Tyr-9 and the thiolate of glutathione. Removal of these groups caused an 1.1 × 105-fold decrease in k cat; the Y9F mutant displayed a 150-fold lower isomerase activity in the presence of glutathione and a further 740-fold lower activity in the absence of glutathione. The Y9F mutation in GST A3-3 did not markedly decrease the activity with the alternative substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Residues Phe-10, Leu-111, and Ala-216 selectively govern the activity with the steroid substrate. Mutating residue 111 into phenylalanine caused a 25-fold decrease ink cat/K m for the steroid isomerization. The mutations A216S and F10S, separate or combined, affected the isomerase activity only marginally, but with the additional L111F mutationk cat/K m was reduced to 0.8% of that of the wild-type value. In contrast, the activities with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and phenethylisothiocyanate were not largely affected by the combined mutations F10S/L111F/A216S.K i values for Δ5-androstene-3,17-dione and Δ4-androstene-3,17-dione were increased by the triple mutation F10S/L111F/A216S. The pK a of the thiol group of active-site-bound glutathione, 6.1, increased to 6.5 in GST A3-3/Y9F. The pK a of the active-site Tyr-9 was 7.9 for the wild-type enzyme. The pH dependence ofk cat/K m of wild-type GST A3-3 for the isomerase reaction displays two kinetic pK a values, 6.2 and 8.1. The basic limb of the pH dependence of k cat andk cat/K m disappears in the Y9F mutant. Therefore, the higher kinetic pK areflects ionization of Tyr-9, and the lower one reflects ionization of glutathione. We propose a reaction mechanism for the double-bond isomerization involving abstraction of a proton from C4 in the steroid accompanied by protonation of C6, the thiolate of glutathione serving as a base and Tyr-9 assisting by polarizing the 3-oxo group of the substrate.
Human, rat, and dog phase I and phase II xenobiotic metabolism in precision-cut liver slices and freshly isolated hepatocytes was compared using a range of substrates. Carbamazepine (50 microM) and styrene (2 mM) were used as probes to study the maintenance of cytochrome P450 and epoxide hydrolase-mediated metabolism in male Sprague-Dawley rat, precision-cut liver slices and hepatocytes. Carbamazepine metabolism in both models resulted in the formation of the bioactive 10,11-epoxide (KM = 766 microM and Vmax = 2.5 pmol/min/mg protein in precision-cut slices). Epoxide formation was higher (2.4-fold) in hepatocytes than slices. Styrene was deactivated to styrene diol at a higher rate in hepatocytes (9.7-fold) than slices. The lower rate of metabolism in slices compared with hepatocytes confirms our previous observations using testosterone, 7-ethoxycoumarin, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 2-(59-chloro-29-phosphoryloxyphenyl)-6-chloro-4-(3H)-quinazolinone in the rat. Testosterone 6 beta-hydroxylation in human liver slices was similar to cultured hepatocytes, but lower than in freshly isolated hepatocytes. 7-Ethoxycoumarin O-deethylation was higher in freshly isolated human hepatocytes, as was the ratio of glucuronide to 7-hydroxycoumarin. Testosterone hydroxylations, 7-ethoxycoumarin O-deethylation, and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene conjugation were also lower in male beagle dog slices, compared with freshly isolated hepatocytes. Attempts at long-term preservation of dog liver slices using vitrification and storage for up to 9 days at -196 degrees C resulted in the retention of phase I and phase II metabolism, although conjugation was lower than in freshly prepared slices. Xenobiotic metabolism in short-term incubations is consistently lower in dog and rat precision-cut slices than in freshly isolated hepatocytes; whereas, in humans, this quantitative difference is partly hidden by the large interindividual variation.
Epidermal Langerhans cells (ELC) are bone marrow-derived immune cells that are important in allergic contact dermatitis. We examined the influence of calcium transport inhibitors, lanthanum and diltiazem hydrochloride, on allergic contact dermatitis induced by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB) in BALB/c mice. Systemic lanthanum at a dose of 0.08 mg/kg and topical lanthanum (50 microliters of 10% solution) were given 5 d before DNCB sensitization. Systemic diltiazem (30 mg/kg per dy) was given for 3 d during sensitization with DNCB. In all animals, challenge with topical DNCB to the ear skin was performed 5 d after sensitization and ear swelling was measured. Twenty four hours post-DNCB challenge, animals receiving systemic lanthanum demonstrated a 56% decrease in contact hypersensitivity (ear swelling) compared with non-lanthanum-treated animals (0.08 +/- 0.03 mm vs 0.18 mm +/- 0.02 mm, p less than 0.01). Topical lanthanum produced a 58% decrease in contact hypersensitivity (0.20 +/- 0.02 mm vs 0.41 +/- 0.03 mm, p less than 0.01). The DNCB-induced ear swelling also resolved more quickly in animals treated with lanthanum. Systemic diltiazem produced a 67% decrease in ear swelling (0.05 +/- 0.01 mm vs 0.15 +/- 0.02 mm, p less than 0.001). A decrease in epidermal Langerhans cell density of 13 to 14% was produced by systemic lanthanum, detected by both ATPase staining and Ia staining, respectively (p less than 0.05). Approximately 20% of the Langerhans cells were morphologically abnormal, having become "rounded," and lacking normal dendritic processes. From these results, we infer that calcium transport across the cell membrane of ELC may be important in the regulation of their function. Lanthanides and other calcium-channel blockers may be useful pharmacologic agents to probe these phenomena.
This work deals with the vibrational spectroscopy of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) by means of quantum chemical calculations. The FTIR and FT-Raman spectra were measured in the condensed state. The fundamental vibrational frequencies and intensity of vibrational bands were evaluated using density functional theory (DFT) with the standard B3LYP/6-311+G** basis set combinations, and was scaled using various scale factors which yields a good agreement between observed and calculated frequencies. The vibrational spectra were interpreted with the aid of normal coordinate analysis based on scaled quantum mechanical force field. The results of the calculations were applied to simulated infrared and Raman spectra of the title compound, which showed excellent agreement with the observed spectra.
Glutathione S-transferase (GST) enzymes are often over-expressed in tumor cells made resistant to cytotoxic drugs but it is unclear whether GST over-expression is directly linked to the resistance mechanism. We have made a human lung tumor cell line resistant to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) in order to establish whether selection for resistance with a model GST substrate results in selection of a cell line with higher GST levels. The resistant line (CDNBr), although only twofold more resistant to this compound, exhibited a marked (15-fold) increase in GST activity compared to the wild-type cell line (28 +/- 10 versus 357 +/- 30 nmol CDNB conjugated.min-1 x mg-1 protein, respectively). Resistance to CDNB was associated with a marked increase in the level of both alpha-class and pi-class GST. Resolution of the GST by reverse-phase HPLC demonstrated that the increase in the expression of the alpha-class enzymes was due to elevated levels of both the B1 and B2 subunits. The increased levels of alpha-class and pi-class GST in the CDNBr cells was not due to either gene amplification or increased mRNA levels and appears to involve either altered mRNA utilization or protein stabilization. In addition to being resistant to CDNB, the CDNBr cell line also showed a 2.5-fold resistance to cumene hydroperoxide but was not cross-resistant to the anticancer drug chlorambucil. To demonstrate that the increased GST level was part of the resistance mechanism the alpha-class GST B1 cDNA under control of the beta-actin promoter was stably expressed in the breast tumor cell line MCF-7. The cell lines generated were twofold more resistant to CDNB relative to the parental line.
The murine local lymph node assay (LLNA) has been extensively utilized to evaluate sensitizing chemicals. However, there have been some concerns that its use to discriminate between classes of chemicals is minimal. It is thus desirable to identify better or alternative immune endpoints with in LLNA itself. Here, we evaluated the protein and/or mRNA levels of cytokines and granzyme B (GzmB), a cytotoxic lymphocyte product, to discriminate between sensitizers and irritants and to characterize the chemical sensitizers when used as supplemental indicators in LLNA endpoints. For this, CBA/N mice were topically treated daily with a well-known chemical sensitizer such as a strong contact sensitizer 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB), a skin contact sensitizer 2-phenyl-4-ethoxymethylene-5-oxazolone (OXA), and a skin or respiratory sensitizer toluene 2,4-diisocyanate (TDI), and the non-sensitizing irritants, croton oil (CRO) and nonanoic acid (NA), for 3 consecutive days. The protein and/or mRNA levels in auricular lymph nodes draining the ear skin were then analyzed by real-time RT-PCR and immunoassay. The sensitizers, but not the irritants, evoked pronounced interleukin (IL)-2, IL-3 and IL-4 or interferon (IFN)-gamma. Significantly, different sensitizers evoked different cytokine patterns of IL-4 and IFN-gamma, as DNCB strongly up-regulated both IFN-gamma and IL-4, OXA up-regulated IFN-gamma strongly but IL-4 weakly, and TDI up-regulated IL-4 strongly but IFN-gamma weakly. The sensitizers also strongly up-regulated GzmB mRNA, while the irritants had a much weaker effect. Thus, these cytokines and GzmB mRNA may be useful as additional endpoints for discriminating between irritants and sensitizers or contact and respiratory sensitizers in the LLNA.
A hitherto unknown cytosolic glutathione S-transferase from rat liver was discovered and a method developed for its purification to apparent homogeneity. This enzyme had several properties that distinguished it from other glutathione S-transferases, and it was named glutathione S-transferase X. The purification procedure involved DEAE-cellulose chromatography, (NH4)2SO4 precipitation, affinity chromatography on Sepharose 4B to which glutathione was coupled and CM-cellulose chromatography, and allowed the isolation of glutathione S-transferases X, A, B and C in relatively large quantities suitable for the investigation of the toxicological role of these enzymes. Like glutathione S-transferase M, but unlike glutathione S-transferases AA, A, B, C, D and E, glutathione S-transferase X was retained on DEAE-cellulose. The end product, which was purified from rat liver 20 000 g supernatant about 50-fold, as determined with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate and about 90-fold with the 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene as substrate, was judged to be homogeneous by several criteria, including sodium dodecyl sulphate/polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis, isoelectric focusing and immunoelectrophoresis. Results from sodium dodecyl sulphate/polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis and gel filtration indicated that transferase X was a dimer with Mr about 45 000 composed of subunits with Mr 23 500. The isoelectric point of glutathione S-transferase X was 6.9, which is different from those of most of the other glutathione S-transferases (AA, A, B and C). The amino acid composition of transferase X was similar to that of transferase C. Immunoelectrophoresis of glutathione S-transferases A, C and X and precipitation of various combinations of these antigens by antisera raised against glutathione S-transferase X or C revealed that the glutathione S-transferases A, C and X have different electrophoretic mobilities, and indicated that transferase X is immunologically similar to transferase C, less similar to transferase A and not cross-reactive to transferases B and E. In contrast with transferases B and AA, glutathione S-transferase X did not bind cholic acid, which, together with the determination of the Mr, shows that it does not possess subunits Ya or Yc. Glutathione S-transferase X did not catalyse the reaction of menaphthyl sulphate with glutathione, and was in this respect dissimilar to glutathione S-transferase M; however, it conjugated 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene very rapidly, in contrast with transferases AA, B, D and E, which were nearly inactive towards that substrate.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Though the effects of acupuncture in atopic dermatitis have been proven in clinical studies, its mechanism remains unclear. In this study, we investigate the effectiveness and mechanism of action for acupuncture treatment on the LI11 meridian point for treatment of allergic contact dermatitis. BALB/c mice received 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB) application to induce skin inflammation. Acupuncture treatment on LI11 significantly inhibited cutaneous hyperplasia, serum IgE levels, and expression of proinflammatory cytokine (IL-4, IL-8, and TNF-α) mRNA and NF-κB, ERK1/2, JNK, and p38 proteins. Acupuncture treatment of local points also inhibited cutaneous hyperplasia and serum IgE levels; however, it was not effective in regulating proinflammatory cytokines and proteins. In addition, LI11 treatment is more effective at reducing serum IgE levels and pro-inflammatory cytokines and proteins than local point treatment. These results suggest that acupuncture treatment is effective in alleviating allergic contact dermatitis by reducing pro-inflammatory cytokines and proteins.
Glutathione transferases [GSTs: EC 2.5.1.18)] are ubiquitous multifunctional prokaryotic and eukaryotic enzymes involved in the cellular detoxification and excretion of a large variety of compounds. However, our understanding of the role of bacterial GSTs in metabolism is still in its infancy. The association of bacterial GST DNA with other genes involved in degradation of toxic pollutants, including polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), indirectly suggests a role for bacterial GSTs in biodegradation. Previously, in this laboratory, a specific bacterial GST, BphKLB400 isolated from Burkholderia xenovorans LB400, was shown to be capable of dehalogenating chlorinated organic substrates rendering them less toxic. However, little is known about the specific amino acids in BphKLB400 involved in catalysis in vitro. In this study, bioinformatic analysis of BphKLB400 and other bacterial GSTs, including PCB degraders, identified a number of amino acids that were identical in all bacterial GST sequences analysed. Two amino acids, Cys10 and His106, were selected for in vitro site-directed mutagenesis studies. In vitro GST activity assay results suggest that these two amino acids play a role in determining the catalytic activity of BphKLB400. Studies of bacterial cell extracts expressing BphKLB400 (wildtype and mutant) identified a specific mutant, Cys10Phe, with increased GST activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (the model substrate for GSTs). BphKLB400 (mutant) with increased activity towards toxic chlorinated organic compounds could have potential for bioremediation of contaminated soil in the environment.
The reduced glutathione (GSH)-conjugating capacities of the livers of trout, carp, zebra fish, guppy, and bluegill have been evaluated with several substrates preferentially metabolized by the major GSH-transferase isozymes. Carp and zebra fish lack GSH-transferase activity with 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)propane. Guppy is characterized by the highest activities with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and the absence of activity toward trans-4-phenyl-3-buten-2-one. Enzyme activities with the other substrates demonstrate quantitative interspecific differences which presumably are of minor relevance to the metabolism and toxicity of chemicals.
An active site His107 residue distinguishes human glutathione S-transferase hGSTM1-1 from other mammalian Mu-class GSTs. The crystal structure of hGSTM1a-1a with bound glutathione (GSH) was solved to 1.9 A resolution, and site-directed mutagenesis supports the conclusion that a proton transfer occurs in which bound water at the catalytic site acts as a primary proton acceptor from the GSH thiol group to transfer the proton to His107. The structure of the second substrate-binding site (H-site) was determined from hGSTM1a-1a complexed with 1-glutathionyl-2,4-dinitrobenzene (GS-DNB) formed by a reaction in the crystal between GSH and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). In that structure, the GSH-binding site (G-site) is occupied by the GSH moiety of the product in the same configuration as that of the enzyme-GSH complex, and the dinitrobenzene ring is anchored between the side chains of Tyr6, Leu12, His107, Met108, and Tyr115. This orientation suggested a distinct transition state that was substantiated from the structure of hGSTM1a-1a complexed with transition state analogue 1-S-(glutathionyl)-2,4,6-trinitrocyclohexadienate (Meisenheimer complex). Kinetic data for GSTM1a-1a indicate that kcat(CDNB) for the reaction is more than 3 times greater than kcat(FDNB), even though the nonenzymatic second-order rate constant is more than 50-fold greater for 1-fluoro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (FDNB), and the product is the same for both substrates. In addition, Km(FDNB) is about 20 times less than Km(CDNB). The results are consistent with a mechanism in which the formation of the transition state is rate-limiting in the nucleophilic aromatic substitution reactions. Data obtained with active-site mutants support transition states in which Tyr115, Tyr6, and His107 side chains are involved in the stabilization of the Meisenheimer complex via interactions with the ortho nitro group of CDNB or FDNB and provide insight into the means by which GSTs adapt to accommodate different substrates.
The polyphagous western flower thrips, Frankliniella occidentalis, is a severe pest of horticultural crops. Individuals from a laboratory population adapted to bean plants were transferred to new host plants, sweet pepper and chrysanthemum, to establish two new populations. The thrips appeared to perform poorly on the new host plants, as the total protein content of individual adults was lowered in the new populations. The specific activities of two insect detoxification enzyme systems, esterases and glutathione S-transferases, were assayed in vitro in the three populations. Host plant shifts had no effect on the level of general esterase activity to α-naphthyl acetate and only a minor effect on the level of glutathione S-transferase activity to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. The new population on pepper plants had slightly lowered glutathione S-transferase activity. The level of tolerance to the insecticide, methiocarb, was not affected by culturing the thrips on new host plants, nor was the total activity per individual of acetylcholinesterase, the target-site enzyme for methiocarb.
Analogues of GSH in which either the gamma-glutamyl or the glycyl moiety is modified were synthesized and tested as both substrates for and inhibitors of glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) 7-7 and 8-8. Acceptor substrates for GST 7-7 were 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and ethacrynic acid (ETA) and for GST 8-8 CDNB, ETA and 4-hydroxynon-trans-2-enal (HNE). The relative ability of each combination of enzyme and GSH analogue to catalyse the conjugation of all acceptor substrates was similar with the exception of the combination of GST 7-7 and gamma-L-Glu-L-Cys-L-Asp, which used CDNB but not ETA as acceptor substrate. In general, GST 7-7 was better than GST 8-8 in utilizing these analogues as substrates, and glycyl analogues were better than gamma-glutamyl analogues as both substrates and inhibitors. These results are compared with those obtained earlier with GSH analogues and GST isoenzymes 1-1, 2-2, 3-3 and 4-4 [Adang, Brussee, Meyer, Coles, Ketterer, van der Gen & Mulder (1988) Biochem. J. 255, 721-724] and the implications with respect to the nature of their active sites are discussed.
Four isatin-isoniazid derivatives with proven efficacy against resistant strains of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, that had greater lipophilicity than isoniazid were evaluated for effects on hepatic drug metabolizing and chemoprotective enzymes and compared to isoniazid. Following intragastric administration to mice (75 or 150 mg/kg×3 days), none of the four compounds exhibited hepatotoxicity, and only isoniazid was found to elevate CYP2E1 activity. All compounds slightly elevated Cyp1a1/2 mRNA levels, but these did not result in increased methoxyresorufin demethylase activity. With the exception of isoniazid, approximately twofold elevations in Ugt1a mRNAs (seen with isatin-isoniazid [Ugt1a1, Ugt1a6, Ugt1a9], 1-propynylisatin-isoniazid [Ugt1a1, Ugt1a9], and 1-propylisatin-isoniazid [Ugt1a1]) also did not result in changes in 4-nitrophenol glucuronidation activity. 1-Benzylisatin-isoniazid was the only compound that (1) elevated Ugt2b5 mRNA, and (2) like isoniazid, had no effect on glutathione transferase activities and mRNAs. 1-Propynylisatin-isoniazid elevated glutathione transferase activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 1-propylisatin-isoniazid decreased the 2.4-kb Gstp transcript, and isatin-isoniazid increased Gsta, Gstm, and the 1.2-kb Gstp transcripts. None of the four compounds affected glutathione peroxidase activity, although 1-propynylisatin-isoniazid and 1-benzylisatin-isoniazid elevated mRNA transcripts. None of the four compounds affected microsomal epoxide hydrolase or thioredoxin reductase activities but, in parallel, isoniazid, 1-propynylisatin-isoniazid, and 1-propylisatin-isoniazid elevated mRNAs of each. 1-Propynylisatin-isoniazid, 1-propylisatin-isoniazid, and 1-benzylisatin-isoniazid, and isoniazid, elevated quinone oxidoreductase (Nqo1) mRNA, but only 1-propylisatin-isoniazid elevated the activity. Altogether, and despite some changes in mRNA expression, the novel isatin-isoniazid derivatives had only minor effects on mouse hepatic enzyme activities and are worthy of further investigation as possible therapeutic agents likely free of major induction-related drug–drug interactions. Drug Dev Res 2010. © 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
Upon exposure to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), the human placental tissue forms its glutathione conjugate 2,4-dinitrophenyl-S-glutathione (DNP-SG). The purpose of this study was to investigate the involvement of human placental ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters in the efflux of DNP-SG. Placental tissue samples were obtained from pregnant patients undergoing C-section deliveries following normal pregnancies; villous tissue was cultured in suspension, and DNP-SG formation and efflux upon exposure to 100 microM CDNB were measured by HPLC. DNP-SG efflux decreased by 69.1 (+/-11.3)%, 51.1 (+/-5.4)%, 56.7 (+/-8.3)% and 53.6 (+/-10.8)% (p < 0.05) in the presence of 5 mM sodium orthovanadate (ATPase inhibitor), 100 microM MK571 (MRP-inhibitor), 1 mM dipyridamole (BCRP/P-gp/MRP1-inhibitor) and 100 microM verapamil (P-gp/MRP1 inhibitor) respectively, without any change in DNP-SG formation, total tissue glutathione, GSH/GSSG ratio, tissue integrity or tissue viability. These data clearly established the role of ABC transporters in the human placental efflux of DNP-SG. To investigate the contribution of various ABC transporters toward DNP-SG transport, ATP-dependent transport of 3H-DNP-SG was determined in Sf9 membrane vesicles overexpressing P-gp, BCRP and the MRP proteins. MRP1-mediated DNP-SG transport was inhibited in the presence of sodium orthovanadate, MK571, dipyridamole and verapamil in the presence of glutathione. Furthermore, MRP1-mediated transport [K(t) = 11.3 +/- 1.3 microM and v(max) = 86.7 +/- 1.9 pmol/mg/min] was a high-affinity process compared to MRP2-mediated transport [K(t) = 168 +/- 7 microM and v(max) = 1367 +/- 18 pmol/mg/min]. The inhibition pattern and the kinetics of DNP-SG efflux in the placental villous tissue were consistent with MRP1-mediated DNP-SG efflux, suggesting a functional role and an apical localization for an MRP1-like transporter in the human placental syncytiotrophoblast.
Purification and characterization of microsomal glutathione S-transferase produced by Aspergillus ochraceus TS are reported. The isozymes are located in microsomes and were active against 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, ethacrynic acid, 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, trans-4-phenyl-3-buten-2-one,p-nitrobenzyl chloride and bromosulphophthalein. They were inhibited by N-ethylmaleimide and bromosulphophthalein. The GST isozymes produced by Aspergillus ochraceus TS are indistinguishable in respect of their molecular mass both in native and denatured state. The subunit of the purified protein had an apparent M(r) of 11 kDa while molecular mass of the native protein is around 56 kDa. The substrate specificity and pI values of the isozymes were different. The GSTs produced by Aspergillus ochraceus TS fairly share functional properties with mammalian cytosolic isozymes.
: A cDNA that encodes a glutathione-S-transferase belonging to sigma class (GSTS1) from the silkworm, Bombyx mori was cloned by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction and sequenced. The deduced amino acid sequence revealed 66%, 48% and 41% identity to sigma-class GSTs from Manduca sexta, Blattella germanica and Anopheles gambiae, respectively. The GSTS1 was also estimated to be close to those GSTs in a phylogenetic tree. GSTS1 mRNA was widely distributed in various tissues. The recombinant GST (rGSTS1) was functionally overexpressed in Escherichia coli in a soluble form, purified to homogeneity and characterized. The pH-optimum of rGSTS1 was around pH 8. The rGSTS1 retained more than 75% of its original activity after incubation at pH 4–9. Incubation for 30 min at temperatures below 40°C did not affect its activity. rGSTS1 was able to catalyse the reaction of glutathione with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, the universal substrate for GST, as well as with 4-hydroxynonenal, the product of lipid peroxidation.
Abstract Male and female rats were fed a diet containing 0.01% (w/w) perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) for 2 or 26 weeks, and the effects on enzymes that participate in the metabolism of peroxides and xenobiotics in liver were studied. Elevated activity of peroxisomal β-oxidation persisted throughout the treatment of male rats with PFOA for 26 weeks. The activity of glutathione (GSH) peroxidase towards hydrogen peroxide was depressed significantly by the prolonged administration. The long-term treatment of male rats with PFOA decreased the activity of GSH peroxidase towards cumene hydroperoxide and increased the activity of microsomal NADPH-dependent lipid peroxidation. The activities of GSH reductase and hepatic content of GSH remained unchanged. There was no difference in the content of conjugated dienes in microsomal lipid between male rats exposed to PFOA for 26 weeks and age-matched control. The activities of GSH S -transferase towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene were depressed by the short-term administration of PFOA to male rats, and this inhibition became pronounced during the prolonged treatment. Microsomal cytochrome P450 was induced by the short-term treatment of male rats with PFOA, and elevated levels persisted throughout the treatment for 26 weeks. Upon the administration of PFOA to male rats for 2 weeks, the activity of 7-ethoxycoumarin O -deethylase was increased markedly, whereas the activities of either aniline p -hydroxylase or aminopyrine N -demethylase were unchanged. Although an age-dependent decrease was observed in the activity of 7-ethoxycoumarin O -deethylase, the activity in male rats treated with PFOA for 26 weeks was higher than that of age-matched control, to the same extent as was observed with the short-term treatment. The prolonged administration of PFOA to male rats caused a significant increase in the activity of both aniline p -hydroxylase and aminopyrine N -demethylase. Little changes were found in the same parameters tested in female rats even after the prolonged administration of PFOA.
Abstract Glutathione transferases (GSTs) are believed to be a major detoxification system in helminths. We describe the expression and functional analysis of EgGST, a cytosolic GST from Echinococcus granulosus, related to the Mu-class of mammalian enzymes. EgGST was produced as an enzymatically active dimeric protein (rEgGST), with highest specific activity towards the standard substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB; 2.5 μmol min−1 mg−1), followed by ethacrynic acid. Interestingly, rEgGST displayed glutathione peroxidase activity (towards cumene hydroperoxide), and conjugated reactive carbonyls (trans-2-nonenal and trans,trans-2,4-decadienal), indicating that it may intercept damaging products of lipid peroxidation. In addition, classical GST inhibitors (cybacron blue, triphenylthin chloride and ellagic acid) and a number of anthelmintic drugs (mainly, hexachlorophene and rafoxanide) were found to interfere with glutathione-conjugation to CDNB; suggesting that they may bind to EgGST. Considered globally, the functional properties of rEgGST are similar to those of putative orthologs from Echinococcus multilcularis and Taenia solium, the other medically important cestodes. Interestingly, our results also indicate that differences exist between these closely related cestode GSTs, which probably reflect specific biological functions of the molecules in each parasitic organism.
Abstract Representing a multifunctional complex group of proteins, glutathione S- transferases (GSTs) play a major role in the phase II detoxification process in a wide range of organisms. This study focused on the potential detoxification ability of disk abalone ( Haliotis discus discus ) GST theta ( AbGST-θ ) under different stress conditions with special reference to post immune challenges. Characterization of AbGST-θ revealed with 226 amino acids, 26.6 kDa of predicted molecular mass and 8.9 of theoretical isoelectric point. As illustrated in the multiple sequence alignment, eight glutathione binding sites (G-sites) and ten substrate binding sites (H-sites) were identified in well-distinct N-terminal and C-terminal domains of AbGST-θ, respectively. AbGST-θ exhibited its highest sequence identity with Mizuhopecten yessoensis (59.1%) and the phylogenetic tree clearly positioned AbGST-θ with pre-defined GST-θ molluscan homologues. The AbGST-θ was highly expressed in the digestive tract of un-challenged abalones. Upon administering the challenge experiment, AbGST-θ showed significant modulations in their transcriptional levels depending on the time and the tissue type. The optimum temperature was 37 °C and optimum pH was 7.5 for AbGST-θ. The determined enzyme kinetic parameters of AbGST-θ showed low affinity towards 1-Chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and glutathione (GSH) as substrates. Nonetheless, with Cibacron blue IC 50 (half maximal inhibitory concentration) was calculated to be 0.08 μM while observing 100% inhibition with 100 μM. Furthermore, AbGST-θ resulted in significant protection ability towards H 2 O 2 , CdCl 2, and ZnCl 2 in the disk diffusion assay. Collectively, this study provides evidences for the detoxification ability and the immunological host defensive capability of AbGST-θ in disk abalone .
Data will be presented pointing to the presence of glutathione-S-transferase activity in human blood platelets and the possible involvement of this enzyme in the process of platelet activation. Using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as a synthetic substrate of the glutathione-S-transferase a rapid dose-dependent depletion of platelet glutathione was measured. The formed GSH-CDNB conjugate was separated by thin-layer chromatography. Hints to the formation of leukotriene-like substances by glutathione-S-transferase catalysed reaction were obtained using the specific leukotriene C antagonist FPL 55 712 in aggregation studies.
A hitherto unknown cytosolic glutathione S-transferase from rat liver was discovered and a method developed for its purification to apparent homogeneity. This enzyme had several properties that distinguished it from other glutathione S-transferases, and it was named glutathione S-transferase X. The purification procedure involved DEAEcellulose chromatography, (NH4)2SO4 precipitation, affinity chromatography on Sepharose 4B to which glutathione was coupled and CM-cellulose chromatography, and allowed the isolation of glutathione S-transferases X, A, B and C in relatively large quantities suitable for the investigation of the toxicological role of these enzymes. Like glutathione S-transferase M, but unlike glutathione S-transferases AA, A, B, C, D and E, glutathione S-transferase X was retained on DEAE-cellulose. The end product, which was purified from rat liver 20000g supernatant about 50-fold, as determined with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate and about 90-fold with the 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene as substrate, was judged to be homogeneous by several criteria, including sodium dodecyl sulphate/polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis, isoelectric focusing and immunoelectrophoresis. Results from sodium dodecyl sulphate/ polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis and gel filtration indicated that transferase X was a dimer with Mr about 45 000 composed of subunits with Mr 23 500. The isoelectric point of glutathione S-transferase X was 6.9, which is different from those of most of the other glutathione S-transferases (AA, A, B and C). The amino acid composition of transferase X was similar to that of transferase C. Immunoelectrophoresis of glutathione S-transferases A, C and X and precipitation of various combinations of these antigens by antisera raised against glutathione S-transferase X or C revealed that the glutathione S-transferases A, C and X have different electrophoretic mobilities, and indicated that transferase X is immunologically similar to transferase C, less similar to transferase A and not cross-reactive to transferases B and E. In contrast with transferases B and AA, glutathione S-transferase X did not bind cholic acid, which, together with the determination of the Mr, shows that it does not possess subunits Ya or Yc. Glutathione S-transferase X did not catalyse the reaction of menaphthyl sulphate with glutathione, and was in this respect dissimilar to glutathione S-transferase M; however, it conjugated 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene very rapidly, in contrast with transferases AA, B, D and E, which were nearly inactive towards that substrate. Thus glutathione S-transferase X has properties that differ from those of the known glutathione S-transferases in several respects, although it is closely related to transferases A and C. However, reduction and structural investigations indicated that glutathione S-transferase X represents neither an oxidized or a reduced form nor a proteolytic product or precursor of either transferase A or C. This new form appears to be especially important, in that it was substantially more potent in inactivating a diol epoxide, the vicinal dihydrodiol non-bay-region epoxide t-10,1 1-epoxy-r-8,t-9-dihydroxy-8,9,10,1 1-tetrahydrobenz[alanthracene, than any of the other major glutathione S-transferases.
Domain interchange analyses and site-directed mutagenesis indicate that the His107 residue of the human subunit hGSTM1 has a pronounced influence on catalysis of nucleophilic aromatic substitution reactions, and a H107S substitution accounts for the marked differences in the properties of the homologous hGSTM1-1 (His107) and hGSTM4-4 (Ser107) glutathione S-transferases. Reciprocal replacement of His107 and Ser107 in chimeric enzymes results in reciprocal conversion of catalytic properties. With 1-chloro-2, 4-dinitrobenzene as a substrate, the His107 residue primarily influences the pH dependence of catalysis by lowering the apparent pKa of kcat/Km from 7.8 for the Ser107-containing enzymes to 6.3 for the His107-containing enzymes. There is a parallel shift in the pKa for thiolate anion formation of enzyme-bound GSH. Y6F mutations have no effect on the pKa for these enzymes. Crystal structures of hGSTM1a-1a indicate that the imidazole ring of His107 is oriented toward the substrate binding cleft approximately 6 A from the GSH thiol group. Thus, His107 has the potential to act as a general base in proton transfer mediated through an active site water molecule or directly following a modest conformational change, to promote thiolate anion formation. All wild-type enzymes and H107S chimera have nearly identical equilibrium constants for formation of enzyme-GSH complexes (Kd values of 1-2 x 10(-)6 M); however, KmGSH and Ki values for S-methylglutathione inhibition determined by steady-state kinetics are nearly 100-fold higher. The functions of His107 of hGSTM1a-1a are unexpected in view of a substantial body of previous evidence that excluded participation of histidine residues in the catalytic mechanisms of other glutathione S-transferases. Consequences of His107 involvement in catalysis are also substrate-dependent; in contrast to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, for the nucleophilic addition reaction of GSH to ethacrynic acid, the H107S substitution has no effect on catalysis presumably because product release is rate-limiting.
Protein-calorie malnutrition (PCM) can develop both from inadequate food intake and as a consequence of diseases such as cancer and AIDS. Several studies have shown that PCM can alter drug clearance but little information is available on the effect of PCM on individual cytochrome P450 isoforms and phase II conjugation enzymes. The aim of the present study was to begin a systematic evaluation of the effect of PCM on the activity of individual drug metabolizing enzymes in a rat model of PCM. Control and PCM rats received isocaloric diets which contained either 21% or 5% (deficient) protein. After 3 weeks, the animals were sacrificed and microsomal and cytosolic fractions prepared. Ethoxyresorufin O-deethylation (EROD), chlorzoxazone 6-hydroxylation, dextromethorphan N- and O-demethylation and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) conjugation were used as measures of CYP1A, CYP2E1, CYP3A2, CYP2D1 and glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity, respectively. Additionally, NADPH-cytochrome P450 reductase activity was measured in the liver microsomes. PCM significantly reduced the maximum velocity (Vmax) of all model reactions studied. However, differential effects were observed with respect to Km values of the reactions. The Km values for EROD and dextromethorphan N-demethylation were significantly increased in PCM animals, whereas the Km values for chlorzoxazone 6-hydroxylation and dextromethorphan O-demethylation were decreased. In contrast, the Km value for CDNB conjugation was unchanged. When NADPH-cytochrome P450 reductase activity was compared, a 29% reduction in reductase activity was noted in PCM animals as compared to controls. Thus, it appears that PCM decreases the overall activity of certain phase I and phase II metabolism enzymes in rat liver while exhibiting differential effects on Km. Furthermore, this reduction in activity may be due in part to diminished activity of cytochrome P450 reductase.
Rat glutathione transferase (GST) T2-2 of class Theta (rGST T2-2), previously known as GST 12-12 and GST Yrs-Yrs, has been heterologously expressed in Escherichia coli XLI-Blue. The corresponding cDNA was isolated from a rat hepatoma cDNA library, ligated into and expressed from the plasmid pKK-D. The sequence is the same as that of the previously reported cDNA of GST Yrs-Yrs. The enzyme was purified using ion-exchange chromatography followed by affinity chromatography with immobilized ferric ions, and the yield was approx. 200 mg from a 1 litre bacterial culture. The availability of a stable recombinant rGST T2-2 has paved the way for a more accurate characterization of the enzyme. The functional properties of the recombinant rGST T2-2 differ significantly from those reported earlier for the enzyme isolated from rat tissues. These differences probably reflect the difficulties in obtaining fully active enzyme from sources where it occurs in relatively low concentrations, which has been the case in previous studies. 1-Chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, a substrate often used with GSTs of classes Alpha, Mu and Pi, is a substrate also for rGST T2-2, but the specific activity is relatively low. The Km value for glutathione was determined with four different electrophiles and was found to be in the range 0.3 mM-0.8 mM. The Km values for some electrophilic substrates were found to be in the micromolar range, which is low compared with those determined for GSTs of other classes. The highest catalytic efficiency was obtained with menaphthyl sulphate, which gave a Kcat/Km value of 2.3 x 10(6) s-1.M-1 and a rate enhancement over the uncatalysed reaction of 3 x 10(10).
OBJECTIVE ::: To compare glutathione S-conjugate transport in obese and nonobese persons, and how glutathione S-conjugates are involved in the antioxidant status in obesity. ::: ::: ::: MATERIALS AND METHODS ::: The efflux of glutathione conjugates and malondialdehyde (MDA) levels were measured in erythrocytes of obese (N = 33) and nonobese (N = 28) persons at every 30 min during a 120 min incubation time in vitro. 2,4-dinitrophenyl-S-glutathione (DNP-SG) represented the glutathione S-conjugate. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: The efflux of conjugate in erythrocytes from obese subjects (708 +/- 147 DNP-SG efflux nmol/ml erythrocytes/h) was significantly higher than that of control group (490 +/- 105 DNP-SG efflux nmol/ml erythrocytes/h) (P < 0.05). At all time points measured (30-120 min), there was an increase in DNP-SG efflux in obese group (P < 0.05). This is manifested by a decrease in cellular DNP-SG levels. The susceptibility of erythrocytes to in vitro 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB)-induced oxidative stress were greater for cells of control group (P < 0.05), although hemolysis sensitivity of these cells are not different between both groups (P > 0.05). Following CDNB pretreatment, incubation of erythrocyte with vanadate, a DNP-SG transport inhibitor, resulted in an increase of MDA in both groups. However, in this case, the difference in susceptibility was not related to obesity. On the other hand, while erythrocyte glutathione level was lower in obese subjects (79% of control) than in controls (P < 0.05), the adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) levels, the enzyme activities of glutathione S-transferase (GST) and the conjugation capacities of the erythrocytes were not different between groups (P>0.05). ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Obesity may increase erythrocyte glutathione conjugate transport independent from ATP and GST activity that may protect against MDA formation in vitro.
Aldose reductase is part of the sorbitol pathway, which has been linked to many diabetic complications such as retinopathy and cataracts. This study has determined whether two aldose reductase inhibitors, AL-1576 and AL-4114, may be inducersof hepaticbiotransformation in New Zealandwhiterabbits or Sprague-Dawley rats. The drugs were administered either by intraperitoneal injection (ip) once a day for 4 days (10 mg/kg or 50 mg/kg) to rats and rabbits or by topical-ocular dosing three times a day for 14 days to rabbits (0.5% or 5.0%). Rats dosed ip had increased hepatic cytochrome P450 monooxygenase activity toward methoxy count ar in and benzphetamine, glutathione S-transferase activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, and uridine diphosphate (UDP)-glucurono-syltr an sferase activity toward 4-hydroxybiphenyl and 1-naphthol. In rabbits, ip dosing increased only glucuronosyltransferase activity toward 4-hydroxybiphenyl after AL-4114, and no hepatic biotr an sformation enzyme activities were increased afte...
Abstract A single i.v. injection (75 μg/kg body weight) of the insecticide endosulfan was administered to gonadally immature rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss). Experiments were done with both technical and analytical grade endosulfan. In liver microsomes prepared from fish killed 24 h after administration, the cytochrome P-450-dependent monooxygenase activities of 7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase (EROD), aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase (AHH), and aldrin epoxidase (AE) were measured. In addition, NADPH-cytochrome c reductase (NCCR) was analyzed, and the content of a specific cytochrome P−450 isozyme was determined with Western blotting and an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) using rabbit anticod P−4501A1 IgG. Technical grade endosulfan significantly induced EROD and AE to 160 and 144%, respectively, of the corresponding control values, while analytical grade endosulfan significantly increased only AE activity to 147% and tended to induce EROD to 162%. AHH and NCCR were not affected. The antibodies to cod P−4501A1 recognized a single protein band (M1 = 58 Da) in the rainbow trout liver microsomes. The ELISA absorbances of this protein in the technical and analytical grade endosulfan treated fish were 151 and 138%, respectively, of the corresponding values in the controls. These results were supported by corresponding results from a 14 days study, where rainbow trout were exposed to technical grade endosulfan (8.3 μg/l water). In this study glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity towards 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was also included, however, no effect on GST was observed.
Subpopulations of HT 29 human colon carcinoma cells (HT/M and HT/S) were selected for resistance to the glutathione S-transferase (GST) inhibitor ethacrynic acid (EA). Both clones displayed a 2-fold resistance to the selection agent and required its constant presence for the maintenance of the resistant phenotype. Purification and characterization of GST isoforms showed similar profiles in the wild-type (WT) and EA-resistant clones, with microheterogeneous forms of the pi isoenzyme detected in each case. Metabolism of EA in vitro in the presence of GSH and the isolated GST from each cell line was characterized by a biphasic disappearance of the parent drug; the initial rate at which each of these enzymes metabolized EA was similar. These enzymes also displayed similar Km values for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. However, the amount of GST isolated per total cellular protein was 3.0-fold in HT/M and 1.6-fold in HT/S relative to WT in the continuous presence of EA. Under these conditions GST activity was increased by 2.3-fold in HT/M and 3.2-fold in HT/S as were GSH levels (2.7- and 4.1-fold for HT/M and HT/S respectively). When EA was removed, enzyme activity and GSH concentrations decreased to values similar to those of the WT. Slot-blot and Southern analyses of the DNA gave no evidence of GST-pi-gene amplification or rearrangement. However, RNA analyses by both slot-blot and Northern studies indicate a 2.5-3.5-fold elevation in the GST pi transcript in the EA-resistant population. Results from these studies indicate that: (1) maintenance of the EA-resistant phenotype requires constant presence of the agent; (2) the 2-fold resistance to EA can be quantitatively related to a 2-3-fold increase in GST activity and amount which appears to be the result of a 2.5-3.5-fold elevation in GST transcript; (3) EA, a Michael-reaction acceptor, can induce GST at the transcriptional level.
The kinetic and chemical mechanism of isozyme 4-4 of rat liver glutathione (GSH) S-transferase was investigated by using several alternative peptide substrates including N-acetyl-GSH, gamma-L-glutamyl-L-cysteine (gamma-GluCys), N4-(malonyl-D-cysteinyl)-L-2,4-diaminobutyrate (retro-GSH), and N4-(N-acetyl-D-cysteinyl)-L-2,4-diaminobutyrate (decarboxylated retro-GSH). The enzyme, which is normally stereospecific in the addition of GSH to the oxirane carbon of R absolute configuration in arene oxide substrates, loses its stereospecificity toward phenanthrene 9,10-oxide with the retro peptide analogues, giving a 2:1 mixture of the S,S and R,R stereoisomeric 9,10-dihydro-9-(S-peptidyl)-10-hydroxyphenanthrenes. The analogues with normal peptide bonds (N-acetyl-GSH and gamma-GluCys) show normal stereospecific addition. The kinetic mechanism of the enzyme was investigated by using the alternative substrate diagnostic with several 4-substituted 1-chloro-2-nitrobenzenes and GSH, N-acetyl-GSH, and gamma-GluCys. Varying the concentration of electrophile vs the identity of the GSH analogue and the concentration of GSH vs the identity of the electrophile gave two sets of intersecting reciprocal plots, a result consistent with a random sequential kinetic mechanism. The pH profiles of kc and kc/Ksm [saturating GSH, variable 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (1)] exhibit a dependence on a deprotonation in the enzyme-GSH-1 and enzyme-GSH complexes with molecular pKa's of 6.1 and 6.6, respectively.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Abstract Selected sulfhydryl-reactive pesticides activate mouse liver microsomal glutathione S -transferase (GST m ) assayed in purified form free from cytosolic transferases (GST c s) with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as the substrate. Maximum activations were as follows: 1315% for N -ethylmaleimide (positive control) at 1 m M , 374% for chloranil at 0.01 m M , 272% for EPTC sulfoxide at 10 m M , 255% for captan at 0.1 m M , 228% for acrolein at 1 m M , and 152% for methyl isothiocyanate at 10 m M . Pesticides which showed little or no activation were alachlor, atrazine, tetramethrin, and tridiphane. The toxicological relevance of GST m activation was examined with the aforementioned activators plus EPTC and allyl alcohol. Experiments were conducted in vitro or in vivo with washed microsomes (which contain not only GST m but also some GST c s) and the post-mitochondrial supernatant fraction with its high GST c activity. These studies established that GST m , either unactivated or activated, was not a significant contributor to overall mouse liver GST activity.
1. The influence of the endogenous steroid epoxides 16 alpha, 17 alpha-epoxyestra-1,3,5(10)-trien-3-ol (estroxide) and 16 alpha, 17 alpha-expoxiandrost-4-en-3-one (androstene oxide) and their metabolic precursors estra-1,3,5(10), 16-tetraen-3-ol (estratetraenol) and androsta-4, 16-dien-3-one (androstadienone) on the specific activities of hepatic microsomal and soluble epoxide hydrolase, glutathione S-transferase, dihydrodiol dehydrogenase, and 7-ethoxycoumarin deethylase was investigated in the male Sprague-Dawley rat. 2. Both estroxide and estratetraenol induced microsomal epoxide hydrolase activity towards styrene oxide and estroxide itself 2-2.5-fold and glutathione conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) 1.6-fold after intraperitoneal administration of a high dose of compound (300 mg per kg of body weight). 3. In addition, estroxide decreased 7-ethoxycoumarin deethylation down to 20% of the activity observed in the untreated rat, whereas estratetraenol enhanced the activity of soluble epoxide hydrolase towards trans-stilbene oxide by a factor of 1.7. 4. In contrast, neither androstene oxide nor androstadienone showed a significant influence on any of the parameters under investigation. Dihydrodiol dehydrogenase was not significantly changed by any of the treatments.
Abstract Glutathione (GSH) S-transferase can be detected in a variety of tissues of Hevea brasiliensis . Lyophilized powders prepared from 20 000 g supernatants of latex adjusted to pH 5.0 contain substantial amounts of GSH S-transferase activity which is stable at − 20° for up to 6 months. The enzyme has a broad pH optimum between 8.5 and 9.5. The K m values for GSH and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene are in the range of 33–45 and 150–200,μM, respectively. The enzyme has a MW in the range of 47 000–50 000 and an isoelectic point of 4.3. Although it appears homogeneous on analytical polyacylamide disc gel electrophoresis (PAGE) and isoelectric focusing, it resolves into five forms on DEAE-Sephadex chromatography.
Abstract Rat spleen prostaglandin D synthetase (Christ-Hazelhof, E., and Nugteren, D. H. (1979) Biochim. Biophys. Acta 572, 43-51) is very similar to rat brain prostaglandin D synthetase (Urade, Y., Fujimoto, N., and Hayaishi O. (1985) J. Biol. Chem. 260, 12410-12415) as judged by their pI (4.7-5.2), Mr (26,000-27,000), and self-inactivation during the isomerase reaction from prostaglandin H2 to prostaglandin D2. However, the amino acid compositions of these two enzymes were quite different. Furthermore, the spleen enzyme was associated with the glutathione S-transferase activity, differing from the brain enzyme. The synthetase and transferase activities of the spleen enzyme showed almost identical pH and glutathione dependencies, the optimum pH = 8.0 and Km for glutathione = 300 microM. The Km values for prostaglandin H2 and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (a substrate for the transferase) were about 200 microM and 5 mM, respectively. The synthetase activity was dose-dependently inhibited by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (IC50: approximately 5 mM) and more strongly by nonsubstrate ligands, such as bilirubin and indocyanine green (IC50: 150 and 2 microM, respectively). Both the synthetase and transferase activities of the purified enzyme dose-dependently decreased and showed identical immunotitration curves by incubation with antibody against this enzyme, but remained unchanged when treated with antibody against the brain enzyme. The antibody specific for the spleen enzyme absorbed almost all of the synthetase activity and about 10% of the transferase activity in the spleen, but not the transferase activity in the liver, heart, and testis. These results show that the two types of prostaglandin D synthetase are similar but different enzymes and that the spleen enzyme is a unique glutathione S-transferase differing from other isozymes and their subunits reported previously.
Gel filtration chromatography demonstrated the presence of two peaks of glutathione peroxidase activity assayed with cumene hydroperoxide in the soluble fraction of rat liver, brain, kidney, and testis. The peak with an approximate molecular weight of 45,000 (GSH-Px II) was purified from rat liver labeled in vivo with Na275SeO3. Chromatography on DEAE-cellulose, Sephadex G-150, DEAE-cellulose, and CM-cellulose resulted in the co-purification of glutathione-S-transferase activity measured with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and glutathione peroxidase activity assayed with cumene hydroperoxide, and in the removal of all detectable 75Se. Studies on GSH-Px II indicated that the apparent Km for both cumene and t-butyl hydroperoxides was considerably higher than that for purified seleno-glutathione peroxidase. The Vmax estimated with cumene hydroperoxide was only 1300 of that determined for the selenoenzyme at pH 7.5 and with 1 mM GSH.
Abstract A carbamoylsilane behaves as a siloxyaminocarbene towards electrophilic reagents, undergoing C H insertion with chloroform, methyl propiolate and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Its reaction with DMAD results in carbamoylsilylation.
It has long been believed that neurological status and emotional state influence the expression of inflammatory skin disorders, including seborrheic dermatitis, atopic dermatitis and psoriasis, [1] [2] [3] among others. In this regard, stress has been shown to have a number of regulatory effects on immunological processes in humans and animals. Neuroendocrine pathways appear to mediate at least some of these effects. In animal models, stress exacerbates an atopic dermatitis-like rash in a murine model, 4 induces mast cell degranulation in mice and rats 5, 6 and leads to enhanced mast cell content of the skin in rats. 7 In this regard, we have previously reported that certain products of nerves can influence the function of epidermal antigen-presenting cells (APCs), [8] [9] [10] and the outcome of some immune processes in vitro and in vivo. The relevance of nervous system influences on inflammatory skin Abbreviations: APC, antigen-presenting cell; AR, adrenergic receptor; ATP, adenosine triphosphate; CGRP, calcitonin generelated peptide; CM, complete medium; cOVA [323] [324] [325] [326] [327] [328] [329] [330] [331] [332] [333] [334] [335] [336] [337] [338] [339] , chicken ovalbumin peptide 323-339; DNFB, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene; EC, endothelial cell; EGF, epidermal growth factor; EPI, epinephrine; FACS, fluorescent antibody cell sorting; FBS, fetal bovine serum; FITC, fluorescein isothiocyanate; GATA3, trans-acting T-cell-specific transcription factor; IFN, interferon; IL, interleukin; LC, Langerhans cell; NE, norepinephrine; PBS, phosphate-buffered saline; pDMEC, primary dermal microvascular endothelial cell; PE, phycoerythrin; PerCP, peridinin chlorophyll; ROR-c, retinoic acid receptor-related orphan receptor gamma; RT 
Insect pest constitutes a large group of plant enemies. Palm (Elaeis guineensis), an economically important perennial crop is a host of African palm weevil (Rynchophorus phoenicis). The larva of this pest cause more harm to palm than the adult. Palm weevil is controlled by insecticides. Insecticide sometimes failed due to the defense system inherent in the insect. In order to gain insight into the biochemistry of GST in the larva, palm weevil larva was treated with a known insecticide-dichlorvos and an assessment of some important enzymes that are linked to molecular defense in the larva were carried out. Glutathione-transferase, glutathione reductase, and glutathione peroxidase were altered by dichlorvos in the larva. Glutathione transferase associated with the breakdown of dichlorvos in the gut of larva was isolated and purified. The purified enzyme from the gut of larva showed a mechanism in which two substrates interact with the enzyme to form the products in any order. This study confirmed the presence of glutathione transferase in the larva and the enzyme may enhance removal of insect poison from the larva. transferase in the organ. A 49.7 kDa homodimeric glutathione transferase was identified from the gut of larva and was tagged rplGSTc. Mechanism of action of rplGSTc with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, and glutathione as substrates conformed to the random sequential mechanism. These results confirmed the presence of GST associated with the degradation of dichlorvos in the gut of R. phoenicis larva.
Abstract We studied the action of the glutathione transferase substrate, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) on the synaptosomal production of H 2 O 2 . We found that CDNB (30–40 μ m ) readily depletes the cytosolic glutathione but is almost without effect on the mitochondrial fraction. The depletion of the cytosolic glutathione induced by CDNB affords the detection in the extracellular space of H 2 O 2 produced intrasynaptosomally upon increasing the cytosolic Ca 2+ concentration that is otherwise destroyed by glutathione peroxidase. Higher concentrations of CDNB induce a H 2 O 2 production which is not related to the glutathione content. This H 2 O 2 is of mitochondrial origin and requires that NAD be reduced. The primary product of the mitochondrial CDNB-dependent oxygen reduction is at least in part the superoxide anion.
Two distinct glutathione transferases from the liver of adult Tilapia zilli were identified and purified to apparent homogeneity by ion-exchange chromatography on DEAE-cellulose and by gel filtration on Sephadex G-150. These major GST forms labeled tzGST1 and tzGST2 accounted for approximately 42% of the activity detectable with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as a typical electrophilic substrate. Apparent subunit and molecular mass values, substrate specificities and sensitivity to inhibitors as well as kinetic studies were used to differentiate the GST forms. SDS/PAGE indicated subunit molecular masses of 22.0 kDa (tzGST1) and 26.1 kDa (tzGST2) while native molecular weight by gel-filtration on sephadex G-100 indicated native molecular masses of 46.8 kDa and 48.0 kDa for tzGST1 and tzGST2 respectively. They appeared to be homodimers. Inhibition studies showed that tzGST1 was more sensitive to ethacrynic acid (EA), hematin, tributyltinacetate (TBTA), triethyltinbromide (TETB), and triphenyltinchloride (TPTC) than tzGST2 with TPTC being the most potent inhibitor. T. zilli GSTs could conjugate CDNB, DCNB, ρ-NBC, and EA with GSH but displayed no observable conjugating activity with NBDCl. The K(m) and V(max) for tzGST1 and tzGST2 with CDNB were 0.56 ± 0.05 mM; 0.24 ± 0.03 μmol/min/ml and 0.91 ± 0.07 mM; 0.14 ± 0.05 μmol/min/ml respectively while K(m) and V(max) with GSH were 0.46 ± 0.02 mM; 0.19 ± 0.20 μmol/min/ml and 1.32 ± 0.15 mM; 0.21 ± 0.07 μmol/min/ml respectively. Denaturation and renaturation studies with guanidine hydrochloride (Gdn-HCl) revealed that concentration of 4.0 M Gdn-HCl completely denatured tzGST1 and the possible isoenzyme was able to renature to 92% of the original activity. The renaturation process was dependent on temperature. The outcome of this study indicated that tzGSTs are possible GST isoenzymes actively present and involve in the detoxification process in the liver of tilapia when the subject is exposed to chemical toxins. The wide range of chemical toxins encountered in the polluted environment may have directed the selection of multiple tilapia GST isoforms with broad substrate specificity via gene duplication. Consequently, tzGST1 has a better chemical toxin bio-transforming capacity than tzGST2 due to its higher affinity for its substrates--a form of adaption to the polluted environment.
Abstract Six major glutathione S -transferase (GST) subunits (subunits 1-6), belonging to two different GST classes (GST1 and GST2), were purified by glutathione-Sepharose affinity chromatography and reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) from the gut-free soft tissue cytosol of last instar Orthosia gothica fed a bean diet (large white kidney beans) to which propiconazole (250 ppm) had been added for 2 days. Subunit 2, which belonged to O. gothica GST1, was also present in the cytosol of the larvae given the bean diet without propiconazole, apple leaves ( Malus domestica cult.), or willow leaves ( Salix caprea ). However, the amount of subunit 2 relative to the other subunits varied with the diet and pesticide treatment. Subunits 1 and 3-6 all belonged to O. gothica GST2 and all had the same M r and p I . Subunits 3 and 6 were not present in the larvae given apple or willow leaves only, and the amount of subunit 3 was significantly higher than the other GST2 subunits in the larvae which had been given propiconazole. The cytosolic GST activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, and cumene hydroperoxide did not change with diet and fungicide treatment.
Modeling methods allow the identification and analysis of determinants of reactivity and specificity in enzymes. The reaction between glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) is widely used as a standard activity assay for glutathione S-transferases (GSTs). It is important to understand the causes of differences between catalytic GST isoenzymes and the effects of mutations and genetic polymorphisms. Quantum mechanical/molecular mechanical (QM/MM) molecular dynamics simulations have been performed here to investigate the addition of the glutathione anion to CDNB in the wild-type M1-1 GST isoenzyme from rat and in three single point mutant (Tyr6Phe, Tyr115Phe, and Met108Ala) M1-1 GST enzymes. We have developed a specifically parameterized QM/MM method (AM1-SRP/CHARMM22) to model this reaction by fitting to experimental heats of formation and ionization potentials. Free energy profiles were obtained from molecular dynamics simulations of the reaction using umbrella sampling and weighted histogram analysis techniques. The reaction in solution has also been simulated and is compared to the enzymatic reaction. The free energies are in excellent agreement with experimental results. Overall the results of the present study show that QM/MM reaction pathway analysis provides detailed insight into the chemistry of GST and can be used to obtain mechanistic insight into the effects of specific mutations on this catalytic process.
In order to gain insight into the phylogeny and physiological significance of organic-anion-binding proteins in the liver, the hepatic glutathione S-transferases of rat and a typical elasmobranch, the thorny-back shark (Platyrhinoides triseriata), were compared with respect to both glutathione S-transferase activites and organic-anion-binding properties. On gel filtration (Sephadex G-75, Superfine grade) of rat cytosol, the elution volumes of enzyme activities with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and p-nitrobenzyl chloride as substrates were identical (rat Y-fractions; M(r) 45000). In contrast, two peaks of enzyme activity for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene with elution volumes corresponding to M(r) 52000 (PLAT Y(1)) and M(r) 45000 (PLAT Y(2)) were detected on gel filtration of P. triseriata cytosol. Only fraction PLAT Y(2) had enzyme activity with p-nitrobenzyl chloride. Enzyme kinetic studies showed that rat Y-fraction had higher affinities for both 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and glutathione than PLAT Y(1)- and PLAT Y(2)-fractions. The two forms of P. triseriata glutathione S-transferases differed greatly in affinity for glutathione. At a glutathione concentration that we found to be physiological in P. triseriata, PLAT Y(2) accounted for approx. 70% of the total glutathione S-transferase activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Binding studies revealed that PLAT Y(1) and PLAT Y(2) fractions had much lower affinities for sulphobromophthalein and bilirubin than rat Y-fraction. In contrast, binding affinities of PLAT Y(1) and PLAT Y(2) for Rose Bengal and 1-anilino-8-naphthalenesulphonate were comparable with that of rat Y-fraction. Inhibitory kinetics suggested that sulphobromophthalein and Rose Bengal were non-competitive inhibitors of glutathione S-transferase activities when 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was used as substrate for both PLAT Y(1) and PLAT Y(2). The major glutathione S-transferase from the PLAT Y(2) fraction was purified 81-fold by sequential chromatography on Sephadex G-75, DEAE-Sephadex and hydroxyapatite, and consisted of two identical subunits with pI7.7. The highly enriched Y(2)-fraction retained high affinity binding of Rose Bengal and 1-anilino-8-naphthalenesulphonate.
The mechanisms by which 2(3)- tert -butyl-4-hydroxyanisole (BHA) protects against chemical carcinogenesis and toxicity include enhancement of the activities of several detoxification enzymes. In previous studies, 14-day administration of BHA to female CD-1 mice at 0.75% of the diet led to large increases in cytosolic glutathione transferase (EC 2.5.1.18) and reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (phosphate) dehydrogenase (quinone) (EC 1.6.99.2) [NAD(P)H:quinone reductase; DT-diaphorase] specific activities in several tissues, and elevated hepatic glutathione transferase messenger RNA. In the present study, one day of dietary BHA significantly increased NAD(P)H:quinone reductase and glutathione transferase activities in the liver, kidney, and proximal small intestine, and NAD(P)H:quinone reductase activity in the forestomach and lung. In the proximal small intestine, glutathione transferase specific activities toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene rose to 2.6 and 8 times those of control, respectively, and NAD(P)H:quinone reductase specific activity doubled, within 1 day on the BHA diet Six hr after a single p.o. dose of BHA (620 mg/kg), intestinal glutathione transferase specific activities were 30 to 50% above those of control mice. In liver, the kinetics of increase of glutathione transferase messenger RNA were in accord with increased synthesis as the mechanism of elevation of glutathione transferase activity in response to BHA. Although changes in mixed-function oxygenase activities have been reported to occur more rapidly, the kinetics of the response of glutathione transferase and NAD(P)H:quinone reductase specific activities to BHA indicates that nonoxidative detoxification potential is substantially enhanced within 24 hr or less after initiation of BHA administration.
Objective: Lignin consists of cell wall phenylpropanoid polymers widespread in all vascular plants and is present in lignocellulosic waste such as oil palm empty fruit bunch (OPEFB). The presence of valuable compounds in OPEFB lignin such as vanillin, syringaldehyde, and p-hydroxybenzaldehyde promise additional value to lignin especially in pharmaceutical and food supplement industries. Methods: In this study, lignin was isolated from OPEFB using three types of extraction techniques (soda, kraft, and organosolv)and characterized via calorimetric, chromatographic, and spectroscopic methods. The antioxidant activity of all three types of OPEFB lignin by 2,2-diphenyl-1- picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) radical-scavenging effect was examined. OPEFB lignin extracts were therefore further investigated for their influence on glutathione-S- transferase enzymes activity in rat liver cytosolic fractions using spectrophotometer assay. Results: The kraft OPEFB lignin showed the highest DPPH free radical scavenging effect compared to the other. High-performance liquid chromatography analysis revealed that all OPEFB lignin were mainly formed by p-hydroxyphenyl (H) guaiacyl (G) and syringyl (S) units whereas vanillin and syringaldehyde were the main compounds in soda, kraft, and organosolv OPEFB lignin. Soda OPEFB lignin showed the most effective inhibition of rat liver cytosolic glutathione S-transferases activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene followed by kraft OPEFB lignin. Conclusion: This study found that the antioxidant activities of all three types of OPEFB lignin were related to the phenolic hydroxyl group (ArOH) contents and their Mw, Mn, and Mw/Mn values. The effect of OPEFB lignin on the inhibition of GST enzymes activity shows good correlation with the total flavonoid content of each OPEFB lignin. Keywords: Oil palm empty fruit bunch lignin, Antioxidant activity, Glutathione-S-transferase, Syringaldehyde, Vanillin.
A study has been made, using High Pressure Liquid Chromatography, of the migration of TMQ (a quinoline type) and 6PPD (a paraphenylenediamine type) antidegradants from a tyre sidewall compound into adjacent casing and liner compounds containing no antidegradant. Migration takes place at a rapid rate, even during the vulcanisation of the composite. After 4000 hours ageing in nitrogen at 100oC, there is a higher level of antidegradants in the casing than in the sidewall. An equilibrium distribution is not obtained. After 114 days at 50oC in 95% relative humidity, the level of solvent extractable 6PPD fell to zero, but subsequent ageing for 2 years in 50 pphm ozone showed no evidence of sidewall cracking. It is suggested that the antidegradant is still active but linked to the polymer chain. An analytical method, for the type and amount of sulphenamide accelerators in vulcanised rubber compounds, has been developed. During the vulcanisation process, the accelerators decay, liberating specific amines which have been solvent extracted, derivatised with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and the yellow coloured zwitter ion analysed using High Pressure Liquid Chromatography. The decay of the accelerator and sulphur during the vulcanisation process, has been studied. It has been demonstrated that the sulphur crosslinking with a styrenebutadiene polymer is a first order reaction, after an initial period during which the accelerator content falls to zero. Variations in sulphur to accelerator ratios gave consistent rate constants for the crosslinking, except for a sulphur level of less than 1% by weight and a ratiio of accelerator to sulphur of 1:1.3. The retention time of the reaction product between sulphur and accelerator from an HPLC column changes with cure time, showing that the precurser to crosslinking is an ever changing material. One of these reaction products has been analysed.
The distribution of glutathione transferase (GST) in the major organs of African river prawn (Macrobrachium vollenhovenii) was studied. All the organs studied had GST activity. The specific activity of the extract from the hepatopancreas was highest while that from the muscle lowest. Purified GST from the hepatopancreas which could conjugate glutathione (GSH) with only 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and 7-chloro-4-nitrobenzo-2-oxa-1,3-diazole (NBDCl) among some electrophilic substrates tested, had a K(m)(NBDCl) of 2.2+/-0.12 mmol l(-1) while the K(m)CDNB was 2.03+/-0.29 mmol l(-1). Chloride ion, a product of the enzymatic reaction readily inhibited the conjugation of CDNB with GSH with an I50 of 0.12 mmol l(-1), whereas chloride ion up to 0.6 mol l(-1) had no inhibitory effect on the conjugation of GSH with NBDCl. However, nitrite inhibited the two reactions but the K(i) for the conjugation of NBDCl was lower than the K(i) for the conjugation of CDNB. The enzyme had an optimum temperature of 40 degrees C and an activation energy of 35.1 kJ/mol. The overall results show that M. vollenhovenii GST (mvGST) uses different mechanisms for different electrophilic substrates. The high K(m) of mvGST for the electrophilic substrates may be a special physiological adaptation for effective xenobiotic detoxication.
The rates of reaction of a series of substituted naphthoxides with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in methanol, and the pKa values of the naphthols in 50% methanol have been measured. A linear free energy relationship applies well to these reactions. The rate constants are correlated with the pKa values of the corresponding naphthols via the Bronsted equation giving a β values of 0.94. A linear correlation between ΔH‡ and ΔS‡ is indicative of single mechanism. The nmr spectra of the substituted naphthols have been measured in DMSO·d6.
Abstract The protective effects of lobenzarit, an antioxidative agent and antirheumatic drug, on the cytotoxicity of paracetamol in rat hepatocytes were studied, as well as the inhibitory effects of lobenzarit on cytochrome P-450s and glutathione S -transferases (GSTs) in rat liver. Paracetamol was selected as a model toxin, since it is known to be bioactivated by specific cytochrome P-450s presumably to N -acetyl- p -benzoquinoneimine, a reactive metabolite which upon overdasage of paracetamol causes protein and non-protein thiol depletion, lipid peroxidation and cytotoxicity measurable as LDH leakage. At concentrations of lobenzarit of 0.2 and 0.3 mM, added 30 min before paracetamol, the drug prevented paracetamol-induced leakage of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) almost completely and lipid peroxidation (LPO) and depletion of glutathione (GSH) substantially and also the formation of the 3-glutathionyl conjugate of paracetamol. However, at a concentration of 0.05 mM lobenzarit did not protect anymore against the paracetamol toxicity. When added to the hepatocytes 1 h and 2 h before paracetamol, 0.05 and 0.2 and 0.3 mM concentrations of lobenzarit did not protect against the cytotoxicity induced by paracetamol either. Lobenzarit did not inhibit cytochromes P-450 1A1/1A2, 2B1/2B2 abd 2E1 which were measured as ethoxyresorufin O -deethylation (EROD) activity in β-naphthoflavone-induced rat liver microsomes, as pentoxyresorufin de-pentylation (PROD) activity in phenobarbital-induced microsomes and as p -nitrophenol hydroxylation (PNPH) activity in pyrazol-induced microsomes. Lobenzarit did not show inhibition of glutathione S -transferase (GST) activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) in cytosol from liver of rats treated with phenobarbital, pyrazol and β-naphthoflavone either. It is concluded that the cytoprotective effect of lobenzarit is most likely due to its antioxidant effects and/or to its ability to stimulate GSH reductase.
Previous studies have shown that washed human platelets attenuate oxidant oedema in isolated perfused rabbit lungs through mechanisms dependent on platelet glutathione. We hypothesized that the platelet glutathione redox cycle scavenges hydrogen peroxide in this model and thereby protects vascular endothelial cells from oxidant injury. This hypothesis was tested by asking two questions: (1) do glutathione-supplemented platelets demonstrate augmented lung protection compared with control platelets, and (2) does conjugation of platelet glutathione with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene or inactivation of catalase with 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole decrease in vitro platelet metabolism of hydrogen peroxide? We incubated washed human platelets with reduced glutathione or glutathione monoester and observed platelet glutathione contents of 181% and 189%, respectively, compared with control values. Incubation of platelets with N-acetylcysteine did not alter platelet glutathione content. Infusion of glutathione-supplemented platelets into isolated lungs injured by purine and xanthine oxidase did not augment platelet protection compared with untreated platelets. We also found that conjugation of platelet glutathione and/or inactivation of platelet catalase did not decrease the rate constant for platelet metabolism of hydrogen peroxide. We conclude that platelets attenuate oxidant lung oedema through glutathione-dependent mechanisms other than direct scavenging of hydrogen peroxide.
The effect of structurally related cannabinoid quinones, Δ 8 -tetrahydrocannabinol p-quinone (Δ 8 -THCPQ) and cannabidiol hydroxy-quinone (CBDHQ) on the activity of glutathione S-transferase (GST) in mouse hepatic microsomes (Ms) and 105,000 x g supernatant (SP) was studied. GST activities in Ms and SP from untreated (UT) and phenobarbital (PheB)-treated mice were measured using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB) as substrates. In the all case, both cannabinoid quinones concentration-dependently inhibited GST activities. In the case of the GST activity with CDNB, Δ 8 -THCPQ (91.5 μM) inhibited the activity by 32 (UT-Ms), 34 (UT-SP), 59 (PheB-Ms) and 59 (PheB-SP)% of the control, respectively. The activities in the corresponding control were 147.3 ± 2.7 (UT-Ms) and 698.7 ± 9.7 (PheB-Ms) nmol/min/mg protein, 6.69 ± 0.11 (UT-SP) and 8.36 ± 0.14 (PheB-SP) μmol/min/mg protein. CBDHQ (91.5 μM) inhibited the activity by 4 (UT-Ms), 10 (UT-SP), 15 (PheB-Ms) and 14 (PheB-SP)% of the control, respectively. In the case of the GST activity with DCNB, both cannabinoid quinones also concentration-dependently inhibited. In either case, CBDHQ inhibited the GST activity to a great extent than did Δ 8 -THCPQ. The kinetic parameters for CDNB, DCNB and glutathione (GSH) on the GST activity were determined using Lineweaver-Burk reciprocal plots. For CDNB and GSH in all GST activities, the type of inhibition by CBDHQ was competitive, but that by Δ 8 -THCPQ was non-competitive in those except for UT-Ms. The inhibitory constant (K i ) values of Δ 8 -THCPQ were 30.5 μM for CDNB and 33.9 μM for GSH in UT-Ms, and those values were 57.1 μM for CDNB and 68.9 μM for GSH in UT-SP. The K i values of CBDHQ were 11.1 μM for CDNB and 25.6 μM for GSH in UT-Ms, and those values.
Age-associated alterations of hepatic cytosolic glutathione S-transferase activities towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene were investigated in Brown Norway rats of both sexes (11-144 weeks old), under control conditions and after administration of phenobarbital. With both substrates, small changes in glutathione S-transferase activities are observed for the control rats (15-53 weeks old). For these specific age groups, male glutathione S-transferase activities are significantly higher than those of their female counterparts, with sex-related differences being most pronounced after 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene conjugation. Using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as a 'general' substrate, the sex-differences tend to decrease from the age of 53 weeks onwards to become non-significant at the age of 112 weeks. Phenobarbital administration significantly increases the total and the isoenzymes 3-3 and 3-4 activities in both sexes, with the highest and the lowest increase being observed in the youngest and oldest animals, respectively. It therefore can be concluded that some age-related variations exist as far as the glutathione S-transferase activity of both control and phenobarbital-treated rats are concerned, but that the changes observed are rather small. On the contrary, the parameters 'Sex' and 'Phenobarbital treatment' are found to be responsible for the major activity changes observed.
The main aim of this work is to develop and validate two spectrophotometric methods for the quantitative analysis of rabeprazole sodium in commercial dosage forms. Method A is based on the reaction of drug with 3- methyl-2-benzothiazolinone hydrazone hydrochloride (MBTH) in the presence of ammonium cerium(IV) nitrate in acetic acid medium at room temperature to form red-brown product which absorbs maximally at 470 nm. Method B utilizes the reaction of rabeprazole sodium with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) in dimethyl sul- foxide (DMSO) at 45� 1 °C to form yellow colored Meisenheimer complex. The colored complex has a character- istic band peaking at 420 nm. Under the optimized reaction conditions, proposed methods are validated as per ICH guidelines. Beer's law is obeyed in the concentration ranges of 14—140 and 7.5—165 m gm l � 1 with linear re- gression equations of A� 6.041� 10 � 4 � 1.07� 10 � 2 C and A� 1.020� 10 � 3 � 5.0� 10 � 3 C for methods A and B, re- spectively. The limits of detection for methods A and B are 1.38 and 0.75 m gm l � 1 , respectively. Both methods have been applied successfully for the estimation of rabeprazole sodium in commercial dosage forms. The results are compared with the reference UV spectrophotometric method.
The heat shock transcription factor Hsf1 of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae regulates the transcription of a set of genes that contain heat shock elements (HSEs) in their promoters and function in diverse cellular processes, including protein folding. Here, we show that Hsf1 activates the transcription of various target genes when cells are treated with oxidizing reagents, including the superoxide anion generators menadione and KO2 and the thiol oxidants diamide and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). Similar to heat shock, the oxidizing reagents are potent inducers of both efficient HSE binding and extensive phosphorylation of Hsf1. The inducible phosphorylation of Hsf1 is regulated by the intramolecular domain-domain interactions and affects HSE structure-specific transcription. Unlike the heat shock, diamide, or CDNB response, menadione or KO2 activation of Hsf1 is inhibited by cyclic-AMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) activity, which negatively regulates the activator functions of other transcriptional regulators implicated in the oxidative stress response. These results demonstrate that Hsf1 is a member of the oxidative stress-responsive activators and that PKA is a general negative regulator in the superoxide anion response.
In order to gain insight into the phylogeny and physiological significance of organic-anion-binding proteins in the liver, the hepatic glutathione S-transferases of rat and a typical elasmobranch, the thorny-back shark (Platyrhinoides triseriata), were compared with respect to both glutathione S-transferase activites and organicanion-binding properties. On gel filtration (Sephadex G-75, Superfine grade) of rat cytosol, the elution volumes of enzyme activities with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and p-nitrobenzyl chloride as substrates were identical (rat Y-fractions; Mr 45000). In contrast, two peaks of enzyme activity for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene with elution volumes corresponding to Mr 52000 (PLAT Y,) and Mr 45000 (PLAT Y2) were detected on gel filtration of P. triseriata cytosol. Only fraction PLAT Y2 had enzyme activity with p-nitrobenzyl chloride. Enzyme kinetic studies showed that rat Y-fraction had higher affinities for both 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and glutathione than PLAT Y1-and PLAT Y2-fractions. The two forms of P. triseriata glutathione S-transferases differed greatly in affinity for glutathione. At a glutathione concentration that we found to be physiological in P. triseriata, PLAT Y2 accounted for approx. 70% of the total glutathione S-transferase activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Binding studies revealed that PLAT Y1 and PLAT Y2 fractions had much lower. affinities for sulphobromophthalein and bilirubin than rat Y-fraction. In contrast, binding affinities of PLAT Y1 and PLAT Y2 for Rose Bengal and 1-anilino-8-naphthalenesulphonate were comparable with that of rat Y-fraction. Inhibitory kinetics suggested that sulphobromophthalein and Rose Bengal were non-competitive inhibitors of glutathione S-transferase activities when 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was used as substrate for both PLAT Y1 and PLAT Y2. The major glutathione S-transferase from the PLAT Y2 fraction was purified 81-fold by sequential chromatography on Sephadex G-75, DEAE-Sephadex and hydroxyapatite, and consisted of two identical subunits with pI7.7. The highly enriched Y2-fraction retained high affinity binding of Rose Bengal and 1 -anilino-8-naphthalenesulphonate.
The enzymatic activity of recombinant PcGST1 was investigated after synthesis in Escherichia coli . The 25-kD protein revealed considerable transferase activity (114 units/mg protein) for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene substrate, whereas the phenylpropanoid p -coumaric acid was not accepted as a substrate. In contrast to the transferase activity, the protein showed negligible glutathione peroxidase activity (0.4 unit/mg protein). These substrate specificities are comparable with those of other type III GSTs (Dixon et al., 1998) and provide evidence that PcGST1 can act as a transferase.
Abstract Human placenta glutathione transferase π is irreversibly inhibited when incubated with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) in the absence of the cosubstrate glutathione. The enzyme is protected against CDNB inactivation by the presence of S -methylglutathione and glutathione. The kinetics of inactivation is pseudo-firstorder with k obs = 0.04 min −1 when 44 μ m enzyme is incubated in presence of 1 m m CDNB at pH 6.5. The inhibition is saturable with respect to the CDNB concentration and the enzyme-CDNB complex shows a K i = 2.7 mM. Concomitant to the inhibition process is formation of an absorption band at 340 nm. After trypsin digestion and HPLC analysis, the CDNB-reacted enzyme gives a single peptide absorbing at 340 nm. Automated Edman degradation of this peptide indicates cysteine 47 to be the residue alkylated by CDNB.
Pulmonary conjugation pathways may be important for the metabolism of xenobiotics introduced via airways of systemically. The objective of this study was to determine the pulmonary conjugating capacity in both the isolated perfused rabbit lung (IPRL) and in vitro, and the ability of ethanol to alter the above. The IPRL was capable of conjugating glutathione (GSH) with either 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) of 1,2-epoxy-(p-nitrophenoxy) propane(ENP). The pulmonary GSH conjugation with ENP was inhibited by cibacron blue, indicating the presence of glutathione-S-transferase (GST) u and/or classes, but it was not altered by buthionine sulfoximine, a selective inhibitor of Gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase.
We investigated the role of cMOAT/MRP2 (canalicular multispecific organic anion transporter/multidrug resistance-associated protein 2) in the intestinal secretion of organic anions by comparing the behavior in Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats and Eisai hyperbilirubinemic rat (EHBR) whose cMOAT/MRP2 is hereditarily defective. After i.v. administration of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (30 micromol/kg), the biliary and intestinal excretion of its glutathione conjugate 2, 4-dinitrophenyl-S-glutathione (DNP-SG), a substrate for cMOAT/MRP2, was significantly reduced in EHBR compared with SD rats. This result also was confirmed by Ussing chamber studies; DNP-SG showed 1.5-fold greater serosal-to-mucosal flux compared with the mucosal-to-serosal flux in SD rats, whereas a similar flux was observed in both directions in EHBR. In addition, metabolic inhibitors reduced the preferential serosal-to-mucosal flux of DNP-SG in SD rats. In everted sac studies, intestinal secretion clearance, defined as the efflux rate of DNP-SG into the mucosal side divided by the area under the curve on the serosal side, was significantly lower in the jejunum of EHBR than that in SD rats. Northern blot analyses demonstrated the highest mRNA level of cMOAT/MRP2 in the jejunum, which is in good agreement with the results of the everted sac studies. These results suggest that cMOAT/MRP2 is involved in the secretion of organic anions in the small intestine.
Glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity was measured in adult rat hepatocytes during either pure culture or coculture with another rat liver cell type in various media. Addition of nicotinamide, selenium, or dimethylsulfoxide, deprivation of cyst(e)ine and the use of two complex media were tested. Whatever the conditions used, after a constant decrease during the first 24 h, GST remained active over the whole culture period (1-2 wk). However, various patterns were observed: GST activity either remained relatively stable to approximately 50% of the initial value or showed a moderate or strong increase. The highest values were found in pure hepatocyte cultures maintained in the presence of nicotinamide or dimethylsulfoxide. Similar changes were observed using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene or 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene as substrates for GST. Addition of 10(-4) M indomethacin resulted in 37 to 60% inhibition of enzyme activity. Thus, these results demonstrate that GST remained expressed during culture but its levels markedly varied depending on the medium composition and type and age of culture.
Mouse colon adenocarcinoma Co38 is widely used as a screening model for human colon tumors. To understand better the influence of tumor size on the main drug-metabolizing enzyme systems, we tested 15 mouse Co38 tumors at different sizes. The average weight was 917 +/- 444 mg (range, 300-1,400 mg). Cytochromes P-450 (1A1/1A2, 2B1/B2, 2C8-10, 2E1, 3A4), epoxide hydrolase (EH), and glutathione-S-transferases (GST-alpha, -mu, and -pi) were assayed by immunoblotting. The activities of the following enzymes or cofactors were determined by spectrophotometric or fluorometric assays: 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene-GST (CDNB-GST), selenium-independent glutathione peroxidase (GPX), 3,4-dichloronitrobenzene-GST (DCNB-GST), ethacrynic acid-GST (EA-GST), total glutathione (GSH), uridine diphosphate-glucuronosyltransferase (UDP-GT), beta-glucuronidase (beta G), sulfotransferase (ST), and sulfatase (S). Our results showed the absence of all probed P-450s and EH in Co38 tumors. No relationship was found between the Co38 tumor weights and GPX, GST-alpha, and EA-GST (regression analysis). However, a significant correlation was found between the tumor weights and all other enzymes investigated. For certain enzymes or cofactors, a linear decrease (P < 0.05) was observed as a function of tumor weight (CDNB-GST, DCNB-GST, GST-mu, GST-pi, GSH, and beta G). Other enzymatic activities (UDP-GT, S, and ST) were found to decrease in medium-size tumors and to increase in large tumors (P < 0.05; quadratic correlation). These data demonstrate that the expression of many drug-metabolizing enzyme systems is altered during tumor growth and suggest that tumoral response to chemotherapy could be altered as a function of tumor size.
Calculated second-order rate constants for the reactions of ethane-1,2- diamine and propane-1,3-diamine with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in methanol and with 2,4-dinitro-1-phenoxybenzene in dioxan/water (3 : 2) are mildly dependent on amine concentration. The catalysis is no weaker than that for monoamines and this is adduced as evidence suggesting that it does not represent base catalysis in the second stage of the intermediate-complex mechanism for activated aromatic nucleophilic substitution. The aromatic amines m-anisidine, aniline, p-toluidine and p- anisidine mildly catalyse their own aminolysis reactions with 1-fluoro- 2,4-dinitrobenzene in methanol; the catalytic effects are not significantly smaller than that for the more strongly basic aliphatic amine butylamine. Contrary to an earlier report, there is no kinetic evidence to support charge-transfer complexing in the reaction of aniline with 1-fluoro-2,4-dinitrobenzene.
The glutathione S -transferases that were purified to homogeneity from liver cytosol have overlapping but distinct substrate specificities and different isoelectric points. This report explores the possibility of using preparative electrofocusing to compare the composition of the transferases in liver and kidney cytosol. Hepatic cytosol from adult male Sprague–Dawley rats was resolved by isoelectric focusing on Sephadex columns into five peaks of transferase activity, each with characteristic substrate specificity. The first four peaks of transferase activity (in order of decreasing basicity) are identified as transferases AA, B, A and C respectively, on the basis of substrate specificity, but the fifth peak (pI6.6) does not correspond to a previously described transferase. Isoelectric focusing of renal cytosol resolves only three major peaks of transferase activity, each with narrow substrate specificity. In the kidney, peak 1 (pI9.0) has most of the activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, peak 2 (pI8.5) toward p -nitrobenzyl chloride, and peak 3 (pI7.0) toward trans -4-phenylbut-3-en-2-one. Renal transferase peak 1 (pI9.0) appears to correspond to transferase B on the basis of pI, substrate specificity and antigenicity. Kidney transferase peaks 2 (pI8.5) and 3 (pI7.0) do not correspond to previously described glutathione S -transferases, although kidney transferase peak 3 is similar to the transferase peak 5 from focused hepatic cytosol. Transferases A and C were not found in kidney cytosol, and transferase AA was detected in only one out of six replicates. Thus it is important to recognize the contribution of individual transferases to total transferase activity in that each transferase may be regulated independently.
The role of human foetal liver glutathione S-transferases in the detoxification of methyl parathion was investigated. Glutathione S-transferases were partially purified by affinity chromatography utilizing reduced glutathione as the ligand coupled to epoxy-activated Sepharose 4B. This resulted in the isolation of material with an average activity (mean +/- S.E.) of 58.90 +/- 4.83 mumol 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene conjugate formed/min per mg, representing a purification of 70-fold. These partially purified foetal liver transferases catalysed the metabolism of methyl parathion exclusively to desmethyl parathion via O-dealkylation. High-performance liquid chromatography, radiometric analysis of the enzymic reaction, and co-chromatography with reference standard on thin-layer chromatography confirmed the sole metabolite as desmethyl parathion. The range of foetal liver activity towards methyl parathion was from 30 to 122 nmol desmethyl parathion formed/min per mg. Analysis of the kinetic parameters of three partially purified foetal liver preparations with gestational ages of 14, 16 and 21 weeks resulted in Km values for methyl parathion of 0.24, 0.38 and 0.86 mM, respectively; whereas, the Km values assessed for glutathione were 0.20, 0.10 and 0.18 mM. The ability of human foetal liver glutathione S-transferases to catalyse the metabolism of methyl parathion exclusively to desmethyl parathion via O-dealkylation represents a major qualitative biochemical difference from the rat-liver isozymes.
DJ-1, which is linked to recessively inherited Parkinson's disease when mutated, is a multi-functional protein with anti-oxidant and transcription regulatory activities. However, the mechanism(s) through which DJ-1 and the genes it regulates provide neuroprotection is not fully understood. Here, we show that wild-type DJ-1 induces the expression of thioredoxin 1 (Trx1), a protein disulfide oxidoreductase, whereas pathogenic mutant isoforms L166P and M26I cannot. Conversely, DJ-1 knockdown in SH-SY5Y cells and DJ-1 knockout in mice result in significant decrease in Trx1 protein and mRNA expression levels. The importance of Trx1 in the cytoprotective function of DJ-1 is confirmed using a pharmacological inhibitor of Trx reductase, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, and Trx1 siRNA. Both approaches result in partial loss of DJ-1-mediated protection. Additionally, knockdown of Trx1 significantly abrogates DJ-1-dependent, hydrogen peroxide-induced activation of the pro-survival factor AKT. Promoter analysis of the human Trx1 gene identified an antioxidant response element (ARE) that is required for DJ-1-dependent induction of Trx1 expression. The transcription factor Nuclear factor erythroid-2 related factor 2 (Nrf2), which is a critical inducer of ARE-mediated expression, is regulated by DJ-1. Overexpression of DJ-1 results in increased Nrf2 protein levels, promotes its translocation into the nucleus and enhances its recruitment onto the ARE site in the Trx1 promoter. Further, Nrf2 knockdown abolishes DJ-1-mediated Trx1 induction and cytoprotection against hydrogen peroxide, indicating the critical role of Nrf2 in carrying out the protective functions of DJ-1 against oxidative stress. These findings provide a new mechanism to support the antioxidant function of DJ-1 by increasing Trx1 expression via Nrf2-mediated transcriptional induction.
Glutathione S-transferase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase and gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase activities were measured in fetal rat liver and placenta supernatant at the 16th and 20th days of pregnancy. Compared with adult liver, low activities were found in both fetal liver and placenta. Both selenium-dependent and selenium-independent glutathione peroxidase activities were present in fetal liver, but only the selenium-dependent activity augmented as parturition advanced. Selenium-independent glutathione peroxidase was found to be absent in placenta. The progress of gestation is accompanied by a significant increase in conjugating capacity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene and a significant decrease toward 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)propane in fetal liver. Glutathione S-transferase activity in rat placenta diminished from day 15 to day 20 of gestation. The elevation of enzymatic activities involved in the synthesis and recovery of glutathione, which takes place in fetal liver and placenta, was thought to be adaptively responsive to the changes that occurred in glutathione-consuming enzymes.
Two forms of glutathione transferase were isolated by means of isoelectric focusing of human fetal liver cytosol preparations. The enzyme activity was measured with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as the electrophilic substrate. One peak focused at pH 9-10 (basic form) and the other at pH 4-5 (acidic form). The basic and the acidic forms are representatives of glutathione transferase classes alpha and tau, respectively. These classes constitute two of the three classes defined for cytosolic forms of the enzyme in several mammalian species [Mannervik et al., Proc. natn. Acad. Sci. USA 82: 7202-7206, 1985]. Only the basic fraction isolated from human fetal liver catalyzed the conjugation of styrene oxide with glutathione at a significant rate. The kinetics of this form were studied keeping the concentration of styrene oxide constant (6 mM) and varying the glutathione concentration from 0.05 to 25 mM. The enzyme activity displayed non-Michaelis-Menten kinetics. The basic and acidic forms of glutathione transferase from a fetal liver were purified to homogeneity. Both purified forms catalyzed the conjugation of glutathione with styrene oxide. The kinetics were studied at varying glutathione concentrations and for both forms, it was found to be of a non-Michaelis-Menten type. The results are consistent with previous findings in the cytosolic fraction [Pacifici et al., Biochem. Pharmac. 30: 3367-3371, 1981] and show that the non-Michaelian kinetics observed with glutathione in human fetal liver cytosol are reflections of the intrinsic properties of the basic as well as the acid form of this enzyme and not primarily depending on the simultaneous catalytic action of the two forms.
Members of the glutathione S-transferase superfamily can protect organisms against oxidative stress. In this study, we characterized an omega glutathione S-transferase from Spodoptera exigua (SeGSTo). The SeGSTo gene contains an open reading frame (ORF) of 744 nucleotides encoding a 248-amino acid polypeptide. The predicted molecular mass and isoelectric point of SeGSTo are 29007 Da and 7.74, respectively. Multiple amino acid sequence alignment analysis shows that the SeGSTo sequence is closely related to the class 4 GSTo of Bombyx mori BmGSTo4 (77 % protein sequence similarity). Homologous modeling and molecular docking reveal that Cys35 may play an essential role in the catalytic process. Additionally, the phylogenetic tree indicates that SeGSTo belongs to the omega group of the GST superfamily. During S. exigua development, SeGSTo is expressed in the midgut of the fifth instar larval stage, but not in the epidermis or fat body. Identification of recombinant SeGSTo via SDS-PAGE and Western blot shows that its molecular mass is 30 kDa. The recombinant SeGSTo was able to protect super-coiled DNA from damage in a metal-catalyzed oxidation (MCO) system and catalyze the 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), but not 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB), 4-nitrophenethyl bromide (4-NPB), or 4-nitrobenzyl chloride (4-NBC). The optimal reaction pH and temperature were 8 and 50 °C, respectively, in the catalysis of CDNB by recombinant SeGSTo. The mRNA expression of SeGSTo was up-regulated by various oxidative stresses, such as CdCl2, CuSO4, and isoprocarb, and the catalytic activity of recombinant SeGSTo was noticeably inhibited by heavy metals (Cu(2+) and Cd(2+)) and various pesticides. Taken together, these results indicate that SeGSTo plays an important role in the antioxidation and detoxification of pesticides.
The availability of intracellular reduced thiols, such as L-cysteine or glutathione (GSH), may be critically important for the biosynthesis of endothelium-derived relaxing factor (EDRF). We have, therefore, investigated the effects of various sulfhydryl (SH) reagents, such as 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), diamide, 2,2'-dithiodipyridine (DTDP), or N-ethyl-maleimide (NEM), on the release of EDRF from cultured endothelial cells. None of the SH reagents tested affected the flow-induced EDRF release, but DTDP and NEM inhibited the release of EDRF stimulated by ADP, ionomycin, or poly-L-lysine. In contrast, NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester, an inhibitor of EDRF biosynthesis, blocked both the flow- and agonist-induced release of EDRF. Although NEM substantially potentiated the flow-induced release of prostacyclin (PGI2), probably due to a blockade of the reacylation of arachidonic acid, it inhibited the stimulated release of PGI2, whereas diamide did not significantly affect either release. Like CDNB or diamide, NEM, but not DTDP, caused a significant decrease in endothelial GSH. In contrast, both NEM and DTDP, but not CDNB or diamide, inhibited the ADP-induced mobilization of intracellular calcium, suggesting that they act on specific target proteins involved in endothelial cell calcium homeostasis rather than intracellular free SH groups. Moreover, the selective inhibition by these two SH reagents of the stimulated release of EDRF implies that a fundamental regulatory difference exists between agonist- and flow-induced EDRF biosynthesis.
The expression of arachidonate 5-lipoxygenase (arachidonate:oxygen 5-oxidoreductase, EC 1.13.11.34) and the 5-lipoxygenase-activating protein (FLAP) genes in human tonsillar B cells and lymphoblastoid B-cell lines was demonstrated at the transcriptional level by reverse transcription-PCR analysis. Also, five lymphoblastoid T-cell lines were investigated and found to express the FLAP gene but not the 5-lipoxygenase gene, suggesting that the transcriptional regulation of these two genes is different. Western blot analysis of the cytosolic proteins from a lymphoblastoid B-cell line with an antiserum raised against purified human leukocyte 5-lipoxygenase revealed an immunoreactive band that comigrated with recombinant human 5-lipoxygenase. Intact B cells produced very low amounts of leukotriene B4 and 5-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid upon stimulation with the calcium ionophore A23187 and arachidonic acid, in comparison to the amounts formed by sonicates of these cells. However, preincubation of intact lymphoblastoid B cells with the glutathione-depleting agents azodicarboxylic acid bis(dimethylamide) or 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene prior to the addition of the calcium ionophore A23187 and arachidonic acid led to similar amounts of leukotriene B4 as were formed by sonicated cells. In contrast, the glutathione synthesis inhibitor buthionine sulfoximine diminished the cellular level of glutathione by greater than 90% but did not influence the production of leukotriene B4 or 5-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid in intact cells. These results demonstrate that certain drugs affecting the redox status can stimulate the cryptic 5-lipoxygenase activity in intact lymphoblastoid B cells but that the mechanism of this activation is unclear and appears not to be directly related to intracellular glutathione levels.
Age-associated alterations of hepatic cytosolic glutathione-S-transferase (GST) activities towards sulfobromophthalein sodium tetrahydrate (BSP), styrene oxide (STOX), trans-4-phenyl-3-butene-2-one (PBO), 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB), and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) were investigated in Fischer-344 rats of both sexes with ages ranging from 1.5 to 28 months. The GST activities towards PBO and DCNB in male rats increased with age till 6-12 months when maximum values were attained, and then gradually decreased till 28 months when the values became the lowest. The GST activities towards STOX and BSP did not show any significant increase after 1.5 months and stayed at this level till 12 months, followed by a gradual decrease till 28 months when the values were the lowest. In contrast, the GST activity towards CDNB in male rats did not show much of an age-associated alteration. Age-associated alterations in GST activities in females were much smaller than those observed in males. Sex differences in GST activities (significantly higher male values than female values) were observed with all the substrates examined at least at some time of the animal life. The kinetic studies of GST activities indicated that alterations in the relative abundance as well as the total quantity of GST isozymes caused the substrate selective alterations of GST activities with age.
The polymerization of acrylonitrile(AN) initiated by a σ-complex of tetramethyltetrazene(TMT) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene(DNCB) was carried out in dimethylformamide(DMF). The molar ratio of TMT and DNCB in the complex was spectroscopically determined to be 1: 1. The polymerization was confirmed to proceed through a radical mechanism. The rate of polymerization was found to be 0.6-order in [TMT], approximately 0.5-order in [DNCB], and sscond-order in [AN]. The overall activation energy for the polymerization was estimated as 17.8 kcal/mol. A kinetic reaction scheme and a possible initiation mechanism for the polymerization are proposed to explain the experimental results.
Objective : The objective of this study was to evaluate the enzymic and non-enzymic antioxidant levels in various solvent extracts of Vernonia cinerea leaves. Methods: The fine powder of leaf (180 g) was extracted successively with methanol, ethanol, petroleum ether (40–60°C), benzene, acetone, ethyl acetate, chloroform, and aqueous in a Soxhlet extractor for 18 h. The extracts were concentrated under reduced pressure at low temperature (40– 50°C), and the extracts were analyzed for the antioxidant enzymes such as catalase (CAT), superoxide dismutase (SOD), peroxidise, glutathione S-transferase (GST), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), polyphenol oxidase, glutathione (GSH) reductase, and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase and non-enzymic antioxidants such as Vitamin A, C, E, reduced GSH, and total phenol. Results: Significant activities of enzymic antioxidants such as CAT (23.68 μ mole of H2O2 decomposed/min/mg protein, SOD (19.75 inhibition of 50% nitrite form/min/mg protein), and GST (73.28 μ mole of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene conjugate formed/min) were observed higher in the methanolic extracts. Whereas, ethanolic extract exhibits maximum activity of GPx (1.054 μ mole of GSH utilized/min) and Px (102.1 μ mole of pyrogallol oxidized/ min/mg protein). Total GSH (172.3 μM/g), Vitamin E (23.76 μM/g), and total phenols were significantly predominant in the ethanolic extracts followed by methanol and ethyl acetate extracts. Conclusion: V. cinerea seems to be a promising plant in respect of its antioxidant potential, there is a lot more to be done to understand the mechanisms behind these effects as well as to employ them as possible therapeutic agents.
The alpha-class glutathione S-transferases are proposed to play a prominent role in catalyzing the conjugation of glutathione with electrophilic aldehydic products of lipid peroxidation. The effect of iron-induced lipid peroxidation on induction of glutathione S-transferase (GST) isozymes A1 and A4 in the livers of male C57/BL6Ibg and DBA/J2Ibg mice was studied. C57 and DBA mice were fed for 4 months on a diet supplemented with iron as ferrocene and then were assessed for liver injury, hepatic iron loading, indices of lipid peroxidation, GST activity, and induction of GST isozymes A1 and A4. Iron-treated animals displayed a loss in body weight from pair-fed controls and had large increases in hepatic non-heme iron with concomitant liver injury, as measured by serum alanine aminotransferase. Hepatic lipid hydroperoxides, a direct measure of oxidized membrane lipids, were significantly increased only in C57 mice, but hepatic concentrations of reduced glutathione (GSH) were significantly increased in both inbred strains. Total GST activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was significantly increased in C57 mice but not in DBA. Western blot studies using polyclonal antibodies specific for GST A1 and A4 revealed significant increases of 1.5-2.0-fold in these GST isoforms in both inbred strains. These results in a unique murine model for hepatic iron overload further support recent in vivo studies (Khan et al., Toxicol. Appl. Pharmacol., 131, 63-72, 1995) that have associated induction of GST A4 with protection against oxidative stress-induced lipid peroxidation. The observed increases in lipid hydroperoxides, hepatic GSH, GST activity, and GST A1 and A4 protein strongly support the hypothesis that induction of GST A1 and A4 represents an important protective event in the detoxification of electrophilic products of lipid peroxidation.
We developed and validated an HPLC method for determination of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and its glutathione conjugate 2,4-dinitrophenyl-S-glutathione (DNP-SG) to study the kinetics and mechanisms involved in DNP-SG formation and efflux, as a probe for human placental metabolism and transport. This method combines use of 3 μm solid phase, rapid mobile phase gradient with dual wavelength ultraviolet detection to permit determination of a lipophilic parent compound and its hydrophilic metabolites in a single short run. The selectivity, linearity, accuracy, precision, relative recovery and stability of the assay are sufficient for determining CDNB, DNP-SG and its metabolites from buffer and tissue samples to support placental drug metabolism and transport studies.
Abstract Acetaminophen (APAP)-induced nephrotoxicity is age dependent in male Sprague-Dawley rats: nephrotoxicity occurs at lower dosages of APAP in 12- to 14-month olds compared with 2- to 3-month olds. The mechanisms responsible for enhanced nephrotoxicity in 12-month-old Sprague-Dawley rats are not entirely clear, but may be related to age-dependent differences in APAP metabolism in liver and/or kidney. Major pathways of hepatic APAP metabolism include sulfation and glucuronidation; glutathione conjugation represents a pathway for detoxification of reactive oxidative APAP metabolites. The present studies were designed to quantify in vitro activity of three Phase II enzyme activities: glutathione S-transferase using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate, UDP-glucuronyl transferase using APAP as substrate, and sulfo-transferase using APAP as substrate, in subcellular fractions of liver and kidney of 3-, 12-, 18-, and 30-month-old naive male Sprague-Dawley rats. In liver, glutathione S-transferase, UDP glucuronyl transferase, and sulfotransferase activities were not significantly different in rats from 3 through 30 months of age. Renal UDP glucuronyl transferase and sulfotransferase activities were similar in rats from 3 through 30 months of age. In contrast, renal glutathione S-transferase activity was characterized by a lower Km in 12- and 30-month olds when compared with 3-month olds. These data suggest that the reduced total systemic clearance of APAP in 12-month-old male Sprague-Dawley rats previously observed cannot be attributed to age-dependent differences in hepatic APAP metabolism. In addition, it is unlikely that differences in renal APAP metabolism contribute to age-dependent APAP nephrotoxicity.
Abstract Treatment of human oral squamous carcinoma HSC-2 cells and normal GN46 fibroblasts with theaflavin-3,3′-digallate (TF-3), a polyphenol in black tea, showed a concentration and time dependent inhibition of growth, with the tumor cells more sensitive than the fibroblasts. In buffer and in cell culture medium, TF-3 generated reactive oxygen species, with lower levels detected in buffer amended with catalase and superoxide dismutase, indicating the generation of hydrogen peroxide and superoxide, respectively, and suggesting that TF-3 may be an inducer of oxidative stress. The toxicity of TF-3 was decreased in the presence of catalase, pyruvate, and divalent cobalt, all scavengers of reactive oxygen species, but was potentiated in the presence of diethyldithiocarbamate, an inhibitor of superoxide dismutase. The intracellular level of glutathione in HSC-2 cells was lessened after a 4-h exposure to 250 and 500 μM TF-3. However, for GN46 fibroblasts, a 4-h exposure to 250 μM TF-3 stimulated, but to 500 μM TF-3 lessened, intracellular glutathione. Treatment of the cells with the glutathione depleters, 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-N-nitrosourea, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, and d,l -buthionine-[S,R]-sulfoximine potentiated the toxicity of TF-3. Induction of apoptotic cell death in HSC-2 cells treated with TF-3 was noted by apoptotic cell morphologies, by TUNEL staining, by PARP cleavage, and by elevated activity of caspase-3. Apoptosis was not noted in GN46 fibroblasts treated with TF-3.
Mice with inflammation. Skin inflammation was induced with 4 drops of 5% (weight/volume) 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (Sigma-Aldrich) in acetone applied onto the right ear of VAP-1 KO and VAP-1 KOTG mice one day before the PET imaging. The inflammation uptake kinetics and whole-body distribution of intravenously injected 68 Ga-DOTA peptide were evaluated in KO (7.4 Ϯ 1.8 MBq) and KOTG (7.5 Ϯ 3.0 MBq) mice. Dynamic PET imaging for 30 minutes was performed using Inveon Multimodality scanner (Siemens) and reconstructed with OSEM2D. The results are expressed as SUV and verified by ex vivo measurements.
The glutathione S-transferases that were purified to homogeneity from liver cytosol have overlapping but distinct substrate specificities and different isoelectric points. This report explores the possibility of using preparative electrofocusing to compare the composition of the transferases in liver and kidney cytosol. Hepatic cytosol from adult male Sprague-Dawley rats was resolved by isoelectric focusing on Sephadex columns into five peaks of transferase activity, each with characteristic substrate specificity. The first four peaks of transferase activity (in order of decreasing basicity) are identified as transferases AA, B, A and C respectively, on the basis of substrate specificity, but the fifth peak (pI6.6) does not correspond to a previously described transferase. Isoelectric focusing of renal cytosol resolves only three major peaks of transferase activity, each with narrow substrate specificity. In the kidney, peak 1 (pI 9.0) has most of the activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, peak 2 (pI8.5) toward p-nitrobenzyl chloride, and peak 3 (pI7.0) toward trans-4-phenylbut-3-en-2-one. Renal transferase peak 1 (pI9.0) appears to correspond to transferase B on the basis of pl, substrate specificity and antigenicity. Kidney transferase peaks 2 (pI8.5) and 3 (pI7.0) do not correspond to previously described glutathione S-transferases, although kidney transferase peak 3 is similar to the transferase peak 5 from focused hepatic cytosol. Transferases A and C were not found in kidney cytosol, and transferase AA was detected in only one out of six replicates. Thus it is important to recognize the contribution of individual transferases to total transferase activity in that each transferase may be regulated independently.
DJ-1, which is linked to recessively inherited Parkinson's disease when mutated, is a multi-functional protein with anti-oxidant and transcription regulatory activities. However, the mechanism(s) through which DJ-1 and the genes it regulates provide neuroprotection is not fully understood. Here, we show that wild-type DJ-1 induces the expression of thioredoxin 1 (Trx1), a protein disulfide oxidoreductase, whereas pathogenic mutant isoforms L166P and M26I cannot. Conversely, DJ-1 knockdown in SH-SY5Y cells and DJ-1 knockout in mice result in significant decrease in Trx1 protein and mRNA expression levels. The importance of Trx1 in the cytoprotective function of DJ-1 is confirmed using a pharmacological inhibitor of Trx reductase, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, and Trx1 siRNA. Both approaches result in partial loss of DJ-1-mediated protection. Additionally, knockdown of Trx1 significantly abrogates DJ-1-dependent, hydrogen peroxide-induced activation of the pro-survival factor AKT. Promoter analysis of the human Trx1 gene identified an antioxidant response element (ARE) that is required for DJ-1-dependent induction of Trx1 expression. The transcription factor Nuclear factor erythroid-2 related factor 2 (Nrf2), which is a critical inducer of ARE-mediated expression, is regulated by DJ-1. Overexpression of DJ-1 results in increased Nrf2 protein levels, promotes its translocation into the nucleus and enhances its recruitment onto the ARE site in the Trx1 promoter. Further, Nrf2 knockdown abolishes DJ-1-mediated Trx1 induction and cytoprotection against hydrogen peroxide, indicating the critical role of Nrf2 in carrying out the protective functions of DJ-1 against oxidative stress. These findings provide a new mechanism to support the antioxidant function of DJ-1 by increasing Trx1 expression via Nrf2-mediated transcriptional induction.
Abstract Members of the glutathione S-transferase superfamily can protect organisms against oxidative stress. In this study, we characterized an omega glutathione S-transferase from Spodoptera exigua (SeGSTo). The SeGSTo gene contains an open reading frame (ORF) of 744 nucleotides encoding a 248-amino acid polypeptide. The predicted molecular mass and isoelectric point of SeGSTo are 29007 Da and 7.74, respectively. Multiple amino acid sequence alignment analysis shows that the SeGSTo sequence is closely related to the class 4 GSTo of Bombyx mori BmGSTo4 (77 % protein sequence similarity). Homologous modeling and molecular docking reveal that Cys35 may play an essential role in the catalytic process. Additionally, the phylogenetic tree indicates that SeGSTo belongs to the omega group of the GST superfamily. During S. exigua development, SeGSTo is expressed in the midgut of the fifth instar larval stage, but not in the epidermis or fat body. Identification of recombinant SeGSTo via SDS-PAGE and Western blot shows that its molecular mass is 30 kDa. The recombinant SeGSTo was able to protect super-coiled DNA from damage in a metal-catalyzed oxidation (MCO) system and catalyze the 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), but not 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB), 4-nitrophenethyl bromide (4-NPB), or 4-nitrobenzyl chloride (4-NBC). The optimal reaction pH and temperature were 8 and 50°C, respectively, in the catalysis of CDNB by recombinant SeGSTo. The mRNA expression of SeGSTo was upregulated by various oxidative stresses, such as CdCl 2, CuSO 4 , and isoprocarb, and the catalytic activity of recombinant SeGSTo was noticeably inhibited by heavy metals (Cu 2+ and Cd
Chemopreventive agents induce a battery of genes whose protein products can protect cells from chemical-induced carcinogenesis. In this study, we isolated three different coumarins compounds (1; poncimarin, 2; heraclenol 3'-methyl ester and 3; oxypeucedanin methanolate) from Poncirus trifoliata Raf., and studied whether these compounds increase glutathione S-transferase (GST) expression and activity in the H4IIE cell-line (a rat hepatocyte cell line). CDNB (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene; GST subtype-nonspecific) and NBD (7-chloro-4-nitrobenzo-2-oxa-1,3-diazole; GSTalpha-type-specific) assays revealed that compound 1 most potently increased GST enzyme activities. Western blot analysis using subtype-specific antibodies confirmed that these three coumarins also selectively increased GSTalpha-protein expression, and that compound 1 most actively induced GSTalpha. In contrast, the expressions of the GSTmu and GSTmu subtypes were not altered by these three coumarins. Reporter gene analysis using an antioxidant response element (ARE) containing construct and subcellular fractionation assays, revealed that GSTalpha-induction by compound 1 might be associated with Nrf2/ARE activation. These results suggest that these three coumarin compounds from Poncirus trifoliata Raf possess phase II enzyme inducible functions, and in particular, that poncimarin has chemopreventive potential.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) (EC 2.5.1.18) are multifunctional proteins involved in such diverse intracellular events as primary and secondary metabolism, signaling and stress metabolism. In this study, we found a senescence-induced tau-class GST (SIGST) in senescent leaves of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). The SIGST was purified 19-fold to homogeneity from initial crude extracts by three steps of chromatography with a yield of 5%. The purified SIGST had a GSH-conjugating activity and peroxidase (POD) activity at the same level of 1.7 micromol min(-1) mg protein(-1), although restricted substrate selectivity could be seen in POD activity. Barley SIGST is a slightly acidic protein with a molecular weight of 49 k and is composed of two subunits. The enzyme exhibited a single pH optimum at pH 8.3. The K(m) values were 0.285 mM for GSH and 0.293 mM for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. In most respects, the barley enzyme resembles those that have been reported from other higher plants. The SIGST gene was cloned from cDNA of senescent barley leaves. DNA sequence analysis shows that the cloned SIGST had only one base different from the barley embryo GST, ECGST. The obtained sequence indicates that SIGST is classified into the plant-specific tau class. mRNA expression analysis showed that in addition to senescence, SIGST was strongly induced by treatment with a herbicide and low temperature. The responses to these stresses suggest that SIGST may be involved at least partly in the secondary metabolism as an antioxidant and enhancement of enzymatic activity during senescence.
The objective of this research is to develop a simple, sensitive and validated kinetic spectrophotometric method for the determination of nortriptyline hydrochloride in pure and pharmaceutical formulations. The method is based on derivatization of drug with1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) in dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) medium at room temperature (30 10C). The reaction was followed spectrophotometrically by measuring the increase in absorbance at 390 nm as a function of time. Under the optimized experimental conditions, Beers law obeyed in the concentration range of 20-100 g/ml for both initial rate and fixed time methods. The limits of quantitation are 2.975 and 3.680 g/ml for initial rate and fixed time methods, respectively. The method has been successfully applied to the determination of nortriptyline in pharmaceutical formulations. Statistical comparison of the results with the reference method shows excellent agreement and indicates no significant difference in accuracy and precision.
The isolation and characterization of a family of maize glutathione-S-transferases (GST's) has been described previously. These enzymes are designated GSTs I, II and III based on size, substrate specificity and responsiveness to safeners. GST III has been shown to act on the herbicide alachlor as well as the commonly used substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). Clones were isolated from a maize cDNA library in lambda gt10. Three clones contained the entire coding region for GST III. The sequences of these clones were consistent with the known amino terminal GST III protein sequence. Moreover, expression of one of these clones in E. coli resulted in a GST activity as measured with both CDNB and alachlor, proving that at least one of the clones encodes an active GST III species. With the enzyme expressed in E. coli it will become possible to study enzyme structure-function relationships ex planta. While a number of different GST proteins are present in maize tissue the GST III gene is present in single or low copy in the genome.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs), are a family of enzymes belonging to the phase II metabolism that catalyse the formation of thioether conjugates between the endogenous tripeptide glutathione and xenobiotic compounds. The voltammetric behaviour of glutathione (GSH), 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and glutathione S-transferase (GST), as well as the catalytic conjugation reaction of GSH to CDNB by GST was investigated at room temperature, T=298.15K (25°C), at pH6.5, for low concentration of substrates and enzyme, using differential pulse (DP) voltammetry at a glassy carbon electrode. Only GSH can be oxidized; a sensitivity of 0.14nA/μM and a LOD of 6.4μM were obtained. The GST kinetic parameter electrochemical evaluation, in relation to its substrates, GSH and CDNB, using reciprocal Michaelis-Menten and Lineweaver-Burk double reciprocal plots, was determined. A value of KM~100μM was obtained for either GSH or CDNB, and Vmax varied between 40 and 60μmol/min per mg of GST.
This study deals with the role of glutathione transferase (GST)-mediated conjugation of (+)-7 beta,8 alpha-dihydroxy-9 alpha,10 alpha-oxy-7,8,9,10- tetrahydrobenzo[a]pyrene (BPDE) in two mammalian cell lines, human mammary carcinoma cells (MCF-7) and rat hepatoma cells (H4IIE), in relation to their capacity to metabolize (-)-trans-7,8-dihydroxy-7,8-dihydrobenzo[a]pyrene [(-)-BP-7,8-diol] to products that induce mutations in co-cultivated V79 cells. Both MCF-7 and H4IIE cells metabolized (-)-BP-7,8-diol to BPDE, but mutations in co-cultivated V79 cells were only detected with MCF-7 cells. However, depletion of glutathione (GSH) in H4IIE cells increased the mutagenicity of (-)-BP-7,8-diol to a similar level to that found with MCF-7 cells. Measurements of GST activity using GSH and post-microsomal supernatants from H4IIE, V79 and MCF-7 cells indicated a substantial difference in conjugation capacity. Although preparations from all three cell-lines showed GST activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as the substrate, GST activity towards BPDE could only be detected in supernatants from H4IIE cells. This is consistent with the presence of GST 7-7 an isoenzyme highly efficient in catalysing BPDE-GSH conjugation. The difference in GSH-conjugation activity towards BPDE was confirmed using intact H4IIE and MCF-7 cells in culture. These results indicate that GSH-conjugation plays a pivotal role in mutagenesis induced by polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH). Accordingly, a deficiency in GSH-conjugation capacity may be regarded as one important factor in defining a target cell population with an increased risk for tumour initiation following exposure to PAH.
Abstract In this work we have fabricated a glutathione-S-transferase based amperometric biosensor for pesticides by immobilizing the enzyme on platinum electrode using graphene oxide-gelatin matrix, evaluated various biosensor parameters, applied the same for detection and quantification of four different classes of pesticides and validated the biosensor results with GC–MS analysis. The enzyme immobilization was confirmed through scanning electron microscopy, electrochemical impedance spectroscopy, cyclic voltammetry and chronoamperometry. The apparent Michaelis-Menten constant for the immobilized glutathione-S-transferase in the said matrix was found to be 0.083 mmol L−1 and 0.15 mmol L−1 respectively for glutathione and 1-Chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Substrate specificity found to be 2.56 × 107 s−1 M−1 for glutathione and 2.15 × 107 s−1 M−1 for 1-Chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Pesticide analysis was done in 25% methanol solution. The biosensor is a promising new tool for pesticide analysis as it can be applied for analysis of a broad spectrum of pesticides covering at least six different classes namely - benzamidazole, organochlorine, organothiophosphate, organocarbamate, polyphenol and pyrethroid.
Abstract ::: We have characterized a Drosophila glutathione S-transferase (RX:glutathione R-transferase, EC 2.5.1.18) cDNA encoding a protein of 209 amino acids. The cDNA was expressed in Escherichia coli harboring the expression plasmid construct pGTDml-KK. The active enzyme, designated as Drosophila glutathione S-transferase 1-1, had a specific activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene comparable to that for the mammalian glutathione S-transferases but did not have as broad a substrate specificity pattern. There is a region of 44 amino acids in this enzyme that shares 66% identity with an analogous region of maize glutathione S-transferase III. Drosophila glutathione S-transferase 1-1 had no obvious homology to any mammalian or parasitic glutathione S-transferases. The gene was found to be a member of a multigene family.
The reaction of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene with p-anisidine in benzene is catalysed by the nucleophile and by tetra-n-butylammonium chloride. When the nucleophile is N-methyl-p-anisidine the reaction is not catalysed by the nucleophile, tetra-n-butylammonium chloride, DABCO, or pyridine. The reactions of both p-anisidine and N-methyl-p-anisidine with 1-fluoro-2,4-dinitrobenzene have been shown to be catalysed by the nucleophile, tetra-n-butylammonium chloride, and (in the case of N-methyl-p-anisidine) by DABCO and pyridine. Mechanisms are proposed to rationalize the results.
Abstract Addition of either 2(3)-tert-butyl-4-hydroxyanisole (BHA) or 1,2-dihydro-6-ethoxy-2,2,4-trimethylquinoline (ethoxyquin) to the diet greatly decreases the levels of mutagenic metabolites of benzo(a)pyrene in CD-1 mice. (R. P. Batzinger, S-Y. L. Ou, and E. Bueding, Cancer Res., 38:000, 1978). The mutagenic activity of the urinary metabolites of benzo(a)pyrene is markedly reduced in the presence of glutathione together with the liver cytosols of rats or mice fed on a diet containing BHA. The liver cytosols of mice and rats maintained on control diets are much less effective in this respect. Dietary BHA causes increases in mouse and rat hepatic glutathione S-transferase (EC 2.5.1.18) specific activities with 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, p-nitrobenzylchloride, and Δ5-androstene-3,17-dione. In the mouse the increases are larger (5- to 10-fold) and are dependent on the dose and duration of administration of BHA. Increases in these glutathione S-transferase specific activities were also observed in mouse hepatic cytosols after feeding of ethoxyquin. Direct addition of reduced glutathione and purified glutathione S-transferases A and B obtained from rat liver to the mutagenicity assay system mimicked the effect of the rodent cytosols. Since BHA and ethoxyquin are known to reduce the neoplastic effects of a variety of potent carcinogens, we suggest that the protective effects of these antioxidants may be accounted for, at least in part, by their ability to elevate the glutathione S-transferases. These enzymes inactivate arene oxides and other hydrophobic electrophiles by catalyzing their conjugation with glutathione.
The rate of formation of the major glutathione conjugate of the antitumor alkylating agent melphalan can be directly measured by high pressure liquid chromatography. Rates of melphalan-glutathione conjugate formation were determined in the presence and in the absence of human melanoma cell homogenates, or cell fractions from various tissue sources, and the relative contributions of enzyme-catalyzed and nonenzymatic conjugate formation to the overall rates of conjugation were determined. Significant rates of conjugation were observed in the absence of any enzyme-containing cell fractions. These rates were not increased by the addition of melanoma cell homogenates, animal liver microsomes or human liver cytosol or microsomes, even though these preparations all enhanced the rate of conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Animal liver cytosol contains enzymes that provided a significant contribution to the overall rate of melphalan conjugate formation. We conclude that although liver cytosol contains enzymes that significantly enhance the rate of glutathione conjugation with melphalan, in the case of the tumor cells studied, cellular glutathione S-transferase-catalyzed activity appears to be, at best, a very minor determinant of the overall rate of melphalan-glutathione conjugate formation.
Retroviral gene transfer technology is frequently used to establish stable transgenic cell lines. However, no studies to date have evaluated antioxidant defense systems in cells infected with retroviral particles. In the present study, we examined the effects of retroviral infection on antioxidant defense systems using H4IIE cells infected with a retrovirus that overexpresses green fluorescent protein (retro-H4IIE cells). Total oxyradical scavenging capacity and glutathione (GSH), malondialdehyde, and peroxide levels were not significantly altered in retro-H4IIE cells; however, retro-H4IIE cells showed a higher resistance against cytotoxicity, GSH depletion, and malondialdehyde elevation under H(2)O(2)-induced oxidative stress conditions. Immunoblot analysis showed that alpha-class GSH S-transferase (GST) was increased 2.5-fold in retro-H4IIE cells as compared with H4IIE cells; however, catalase, GSH peroxidase-1, peroxiredoxin-1, and thioredoxin-1 remained unaltered or slightly decreased. l-Buthionine-(S,R)-sulfoximine, a GSH synthesis inhibitor, and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, a GST substrate and competitive inhibitor, decreased the difference in H(2)O(2) responses between the two cell types. These results support the hypothesis that the resistance of retro-H4IIE cells to H(2)O(2) can be attributed to an increase in alpha-class GST expression, as levels of GSH and GSH peroxidase-1 were not altered. The present study suggests that antioxidant enzyme expression may change during the establishment of stable transformed cell lines using retroviral techniques.
Selenium-independent enzymes, found in the liver cytosol of selenium deficient rats, that are capable of reducing dilinoleoyl phosphatidylcholine hydroperoxide in the presence of reduced glutathione [Guan et al., (1995) Biochem. Mol. Biol. Int., 37, 1103-1110] were purified to homogeneity by use of successive chromatography on glutathione affinity and Mono P columns. The molecular weight of the purified protein was estimated by gel filtration to be approximately 50 kDa. Upon isoelectric focusing, the purified preparation showed two protein bands having pI values of 8.6 and 8.8. Both proteins had reactivity against both 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and dilinoleoyl phosphatidylcholine hydroperoxide in the presence of reduced glutathione. Each of them consisted of two subunits having molecular weights of 24.3 kDa and 26 kDa, as estimated by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The large subunit was identified as rat glutathione S-transferase (GST) 2 (Yc subunit) based on the amino-terminal amino acid sequence analysis. The small subunit was considered to be most probably rat GST 1 (Ya subunit). From these results, we conclude that the basic alpha-class isozymes of GST in rat liver cytosol possess glutathione peroxidase activity toward phospholipid hydroperoxide.
Supplementation of selenium in the form of selenomethionine (8 ppm) in drinking water daily has been found to be highly effective in reducing cancer incidence in male Sprague-Dawley rats fed 2-acetylaminofluorine (2-AAF) (0.05%) in the basal diet daily for 16 weeks. Selenomethionine treatment before initiation, during initiation or during the selection/promotion phases of hepatocarcinogenesis has been found to be effective in elevating hepatic microsomal cytochrome b5, cytochrome P-450 contents, triphosphopyridine nucleotide-cytochrome c-reductase and cytosolic aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase activities to a statistically significant level measured either in the hyperplastic nodules or in the non-nodular surrounding liver parenchyma compared with 2-AAF control rats. Moreover, selenomethionine treatment throughout the study also decreased the cytosolic 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene conjugated glutathione-S-transferase and microsomal UDP-glucuronyl transferase activities to a significant level when compared with 2-AAF control rats. Furthermore, direct correlations between hyperplastic nodules and non-nodular liver areas were observed with the hepatic selenium content and also with the rates and patterns of hepatic drug metabolism. Selenomethionine was also found to protect and improve the histopathological indices without any toxic side effects as revealed from the haematoxylin and eosin staining. Our results establish the fact that selenium is particularly protective in limiting the action of 2-AAF during the initiation phase of hepatocarcinogenesis.
A simple and sensitive kinetic spectrophotometric method for the determination of perindopril in pharmaceutical preparations is described. The method is based on the interaction of drug with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) in dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) at 40+/-1 degrees C. The reaction is followed spectrophotometrically by measuring the rate of change of the absorbance at 420 nm. Under the optimized experimental conditions, the calibration curve showed a linear relationship over the concentration range of 20-140 microg/ml. The activation parameter such as E(a), deltaH*, deltaS* and deltaG* for this reaction were calculated and found to be 27.31 kJ/mol, 24.69 kJ/mol, -138.84 J/K/mol and 61.50 kJ/mol, respectively. The method has been successfully applied to the determination of perindopril in commercial dosage forms. Statistical comparison of the results with the Abdellatef's spectrophotometric method shows excellent agreement and indicates no significant difference between the methods compared in terms of accuracy and precision.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) (EC 2.5.1.18) are multifunctional proteins involved in such diverse intracellular events as primary and secondary metabolism, signaling and stress metabolism. In this study, we found a senescence-induced tau-class GST (SIGST) in senescent leaves of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). The SIGST was purified 19-fold to homogeneity from initial crude extracts by three steps of chromatography with a yield of 5%. The purified SIGST had a GSH-conjugating activity and peroxidase (POD) activity at the same level of 1.7 µmol min -1 mg protein -1 , although restricted substrate selectivity could be seen in POD activity. Barley SIGST is a slightly acidic protein with a molecular weight of 49 k and is composed of two subunits. The enzyme exhibited a single pH optimum at pH 8.3. The K m values were 0.285 mM for GSH and 0.293 mM for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. In most respects, the barley enzyme resembles those that have been reported from other higher plants. The SIGST gene was cloned from cDNA of senescent barley leaves. DNA sequence analysis shows that the cloned SIGST had only one base different from the barley embryo GST, ECGST. The obtained sequence indicates that SIGST is classified into the plant-specific tau class. mRNA expression analysis showed that in addition to senescence, SIGST was strongly induced by treatment with a herbicide and low temperature. The responses to these stresses suggest that SIGST may be involved at least partly in the secondary metabolism as an antioxidant and enhancement of enzymatic activity during senescence.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs), are a family of enzymes belonging to the phase II metabolism that catalyse the formation of thioether conjugates between the endogenous tripeptide glutathione and xenobiotic compounds. The voltammetric behaviour of glutathione (GSH), 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and glutathione S-transferase (GST), as well as the catalytic conjugation reaction of GSH to CDNB by GST was investigated at room temperature, T = 298.15 K (25°C), at pH 6.5, for low concentration of substrates and enzyme, using differential pulse (DP) voltammetry at a glassy carbon electrode. Only GSH can be oxidized; a sensitivity of 0.14 nA/μM and a LOD of 6.4 μM were obtained. The GST kinetic parameter electrochemical evaluation, in relation to its substrates, GSH and CDNB, using reciprocal Michaelis-Menten and Lineweaver-Burk double reciprocal plots, was determined. A value of K M~1 00 μM was obtained for either GSH or CDNB, and V max varied between 40 and 60 μmol/min per mg of GST.
Specific substrates of GSTs have been already described [9] . Ethacrynic acid has been shown to be a very specific substrate for GST-P1 [10] and trans-stilbene oxide is a diagnostic substrate for GST-M1 [11] . Relatively small molecules, e.g. methylene chloride, ethylene dibromide or isoprene derivate have been shown to be conjugated by GST-T [12] . The 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) has been described as a universal GST substrate [13, 14] , except for theta-class enzymes which lack activity with this substrate [15] .
We have characterized a Drosophila glutathione S-transferase (RX:glutathione R-transferase, EC 2.5.1.18) cDNA encoding a protein of 209 amino acids. The cDNA was expressed in Escherichia coli harboring the expression plasmid construct pGTDml-KK. The active enzyme, designated as Drosophila glutathione S-transferase 1-1, had a specific activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene comparable to that for the mammalian glutathione S-transferases but did not have as broad a substrate specificity pattern. There is a region of 44 amino acids in this enzyme that shares 66%
Abstract It has previously been shown that TEMPOL, n-propyl gallate and deferoxamine, compounds that limit the availability of Fe +2 and prevent the generation of hydroxyl radicals, protect cultured rabbit lens epithelial cells from H 2 O 2 -induced damage. In view of the importance of glutathione as an antioxidant and the decrease in GSH that is known to accompany most forms of cataract, we investigated whether these compounds protected cultured lens epithelial cells from H 2 O 2 when the cells were artificially depleted of glutathione. Treatment of lens epithelial cells with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), a compound that irreversibly binds to glutathione, or buthionine sulfoximine (BSO), an inhibitor of glutathione biosynthesis, reduced the glutathione content to an average of 15–20% of the control values without a concomitant increase in oxidized glutathione. Morphological changes were assessed by phase contrast and electron microscopy. In order to assess growth, cells in 5 ml serum-free MEM were exposed to an initial concentration of 0.05 m m H 2 O 2 (for 50,000 cells) or 2 doses of 0.5 m m H 2 O 2 (for 800,000 cells). After exposure to H 2 O 2 , medium was replaced with MEM plus 8% rabbit serum; cells were fed on days 3 and 6 and counted on day 7. When 50,000 or 800,000 cells with decreased glutathione were exposed to 0.05 or 0.5 m m H 2 O 2 the H 2 O 2 was cytotoxic, whereas cells treated with H 2 O 2 alone remained viable but showed inhibited proliferation. An unexpected finding was that cells continued to remove H 2 O 2 from the medium at normal rates even when the GSH level was reduced. Cells treated with CDNB or BSO alone exhibited morphological and growth properties comparable to untreated cells. Cells treated with CDNB or BSO and then with H 2 O 2 exhibited decreased cell-to-cell contact, nuclear shrinkage, and arborization when viewed with phase-contrast microscopy and showed extensive nuclear and cytoplasmic degeneration at the EM level. Cell death was determined by dye exclusion and confirmed by video microscopy. When cells were treated with CDNB or BSO and subsequently treated with TEMPOL, n-propyl gallate or deferoxamine and then challenged with H 2 O 2 cytotoxicity was prevented and the cells were capable of growth. The data show that H 2 O 2 was not lethal to glutathione-depleted lens epithelial cells when they were treated with compounds that prevented the generation of reactive oxygen species. In addition, the results indicate that GSH has an important protective role independent of its ability to decompose H 2 O 2 via glutathione peroxidase.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the improvement of allergic dermatitis in chemical allergen-induced mice by Lactobacillus sakei probio 65. L. sakei probio-65 was isolated from kimchi, a traditional Korean fermented food. This strain was resistant to gastric acidity, bile, and several antibiotics and possessed antimicrobial activity against several pathogenic microorganisms. To investigate whether the probiotic activity of L. sakei probio 65 was effective for treating allergic dermatitis, the organism was supplied to mice triggered by allergen (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene). Mice that received L. sakei probio 65 showed a more rapid recovery compared to control mice, as assessed by visual evaluation of the severity of allergic dermatitis and levels of immunoglobulin (Ig) E and interleukin (IL)-4. L. sakei probio 65 exhibited good probiotic properties in vitro and in mice and was effective in reducing allergen-induced skin inflammation through the regulation of both elevated IgE and IL-4 in sensitized mice.
Genetic studies have previously implicated the prp1 gene family in the defence of potato against infection with the late blight fungus Phytophthora infestans. Here, we show that the concentrations of PRP1 mRNA as well as protein rapidly increase in potato leaves after fungal infection and stay at high levels during an extended period of the infection cycle. After separation of subcellular components by differential centrifugation, PRP1 protein was identified in the cytosolic fraction. Expression studies with chimeric promoter/beta-glucuronidase gene constructs in transgenic potato plants provided evidence that transcription of the prp1-1 gene, representing one member of the prp1 gene family, is at least partly responsible for the accumulation of PRP1 mRNA and protein upon fungal infection. After expression of the prp1-1-coding sequence in Escherichia coli, the corresponding 26-kDa protein exhibited glutathione S-transferase activity with Km values of 9.8 mM and 0.11 mM for the artificial standard substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and glutathione, respectively. Photoaffinity labeling of the protein with tritiated 5-azido-indole-3-acetic acid suggested that the phytohormone indole-3-acetic acid or a structurally related compound serve as a regulator or substrate of the prp1-1 encoded glutathione S-transferase. This assumption was further supported by the inhibitory effect of the phytohormone on the enzyme activity in vitro. The implications of these findings for a potential involvement of indole-3-acetic acid in the control of defence reactions are discussed.
Chromatofocusing separated the glutathione S-transferases of trout liver cytosol into species termed cationic (eluted from pH 8-5) and anionic (eluted by 1.0 M NaCl at pH 5). The cationic enzymes were separated from cytosol by S-hexylglutathione affinity chromatography, ultrafiltration and chromatofocusing (pH 9-7) into 4 major (C1, C2, C4 and C5) and 3 minor fractions. The anionic material was not purified in this way because only 50% of the activity bound to the S-hexylglutathione column. The major cationic enzymes had similar half-saturation concentrations for GSH (0.2 mM) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (0.4 mM); those of the anionic material were higher (0.7 mM, 1.9 mM respectively). The substrate specificities of the cationic enzymes C1 and C2 were similar (e.g., conjugation of bromosulphophthalein) as were those of C4 and C5 (e.g., conjugation of 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy) propane). The anionic material had a different specificity (e.g., rapid conjugation of p-nitrobenzyl chloride). SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis showed C1 and C2 to be homodimers of subunit Mr 22,400, C4 to be a heterodimer (Mr's 22,400 and 24,500), and C5 predominantly an Mr 22,400 homodimer.
The level of glutathione S-transferase (GSH0ST) activity was determined in growing cultures and in washed resting cells of Beauveria strains with and without addition of isosorbide dinitrate (ISDN), by following the reaction with o-dinitrobenzene (o-DNB). The level of GSH-ST varied according to the pH changes of the medium and decreased during culture. The enzymatic activity measured with o-DNB did not correlate with ISDN bioconversion carried out either with B. sulfurescens or B. tenella. Immediately after starting incubation of the resting cells with ISDN, the level of GSH-ST activity initially increased, but declined afterwards, whereas the bioconversion process continued and reached 500 mg/l isosorbide 5-mononitrate. When 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was used as a substrate for the evaluation of GSH-ST activity using B. tenella, a conjugation product having a UV absorption at 410 nm was formed.
1. Glutathione S-transferase isoenzymes from Mytilus edulis and M. galloprovincialis have been partially purified by glutathione-sepharose affinity chromatography followed by Mono Q anion exchange fast protein liquid chromatography (f.p.l.c.). 2. The tissue distribution of glutathione S-transferase in M. edulis has been studied. Using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate, highest specific activity is observed in the gill, the main feeding organ. Affinity-purified extracts of this organ give a characteristic f.p.l.c. profile. A similar profile is obtained with affinity-purified extracts of the digestive gland of M. galloprovincialis. 3. The subunit structure of the purified isoenzymes has been studied by SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and reversed-phase h.p.l.c. The subunits have similar molecular weights and h.p.l.c. retention times to rat glutathione S-transferases.
Abstract This research explores biochemical mechanisms underlying the differential susceptibility of two related species of Ictaluridae (channel catfish and brown bullhead) to polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH)-mediated liver cancer. The hypothesis is that the observed difference in the relatively insensitive catfish versus more sensitive bullhead is due to differences in hepatic phase II or epoxide hydrolase (EH) activities which could enhance excretion of PAHs. Fish of each species were treated with either corn oil or β-naphthoflavone (10 mg/kg in corn oil) at both 3 and 2 days prior to first sampling. Microsomal and cytosolic liver preparations from four fish per treatment were prepared 2, 7, and 14 days after the final dosing. EROD activities were higher in catfish as previously reported. In contrast, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene-GST activities were significantly higher in bullhead. GST was not induced in either species in dosed versus control animals. An EH assay using benzo[a]pyrene-7,8-epoxide was optimized with catfish microsomes. Activities were 5.2±0.57 nmol/mg/min and did not show time or dose-related differences. Bullhead appear to have higher constitutive EH activities compared to catfish. Current studies are ongoing with EH inhibitors to investigate this difference.
The yeast cadmium factor gene (YCF1) from Saccharomyces cerevisiae, which was isolated according to its ability to confer cadmium resistance, encodes a 1,515 amino acid ATP-binding cassette (ABC) protein with extensive sequence homology to the human multidrug resistance-associated protein (MRP1) (Szczypka, M., Wemmie, J. A., Moye-Rowley, W. S., and Thiele, D. J. (1994) J. Biol. Chem. 269, 22853-22857). Direct comparisons between S. cerevisiae strain DTY167, harboring a deletion of the YCF1 gene, and the isogenic wild type strain, DTY165, demonstrate that YCF1 is required for increased resistance to the toxic effects of the exogenous glutathione S-conjugate precursor, 1-chloro-2,4-di-nitrobenzene, as well as cadmium. Whereas membrane vesicles isolated from DTY165 cells contain two major pathways for transport of the model compound S-(2,4-dinitrophenyl)glutathione (DNP-GS), an MgATP-dependent, uncoupler-insensitive pathway and an electrically driven pathway, the corresponding membrane fraction from DTY167 cells is more than 90% impaired for MgATP-dependent, uncoupler-insensitive DNP-GS transport. Of the two DNP-GS transport pathways identified, only the MgATP-dependent, uncoupler-insensive pathway is subject to inhibition by glutathione disulfide, vanadate, verapamil, and vinblastine. The capacity for MgATP-dependent, uncoupler-insensitive conjugate transport in vitro strictly copurifies with the acuolar membrane fraction. Intact DTY165 cells, but not DTY167 cells, mediate vacuolar accumulation of the quorescent glutathione-conjugate, monochlorobimane-GS. Introduction of plasmid borne, epitope-tagged gene encoding functional YCF1 into DTY167 cells alleviates the 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene-hypersensitive phenotype concomitant with restoration of the capacity of vacuolar membrane vesicles isolated from these cells for MgATP-dependent, uncoupler-insensitive DNP-GS transport. On the basis of these findings, the YCF1 gene of S. cerevisiae is inferred to encode an MgATP-energized, uncoupler-insensitive vacuolar glutathione S-conjugate transporter. The energy requirements, kinetics, substrate specificity, and inhibitor profile of YCF1-mediated transport demonstrate that the vacuolar glutathione conjugate pump of yeast bears a strong mechanistic resemblance to the MRP1-encoded transporter of mammalian cells and the cognate, but as yet molecularly undefined, function of plant cells.
We report an experimental study on the effect of solvents on the model SN Ar reaction between 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and morpholine in a series of pure ionic liquids (IL). A significant catalytic effect is observed with reference to the same reaction run in water, acetonitrile, and other conventional solvents. The series of IL considered include the anions, NTf2 (-) , DCN(-) , SCN(-) , CF3 SO3 (-) , PF6 (-) , and FAP(-) with the series of cations 1-butyl-3-methyl-imidazolium ([BMIM](+) ), 1-ethyl-3-methyl-imidazolium ([EMIM](+) ), 1-butyl-2,3-dimethyl-imidazolium ([BM2 IM](+) ), and 1-butyl-1-methyl-pyrrolidinium ([BMPyr](+) ). The observed solvent effects can be attributed to an "anion effect". The anion effect appears related to the anion size (polarizability) and their hydrogen-bonding (HB) abilities to the substrate. These results have been confirmed by performing a comparison of the rate constants with Gutmann's donicity numbers (DNs). The good correlation between rate constants and DN emphasizes the major role of charge transfer from the anion to the substrate.
The monocyclic monoterpenoid compounds limonene and sobrerol have anticarcinogenic activity when fed during the initiation stage of dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA)-induced rat mammary carcinogenesis. Here we investigated the potential roles of hepatic glutathione-S-transferase (GST; EC 2.5.1.18) and uridine diphosphoglucuronosyl transferase (UDPGT; EC 2.4.1.17) in monoterpene-mediated chemoprevention. Diets containing the isoeffective anticarcinogenic terpenes, 5% limonene or 1% sobrerol, elevated hepatic GST activity >2-fold when measured using the general substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 3,4-dichloronitrobenzene for the GST dimer 3-3
The yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae contains two glutaredoxins, encoded by GRX1 and GRX2, that are required for resistance to reactive oxygen species. We recently reported that Grx1 is active as a glutathione peroxidase and can directly reduce hydroperoxides (Collinson, E. J., Wheeler, G. L., Garrido, E. O., Avery, A. M., Avery, S. V., and Grant, C. M. (2002) J. Biol. Chem. 277, 16712-16717). We now show that Grx2 is also a general hydroperoxidase, and kinetic data indicate that both enzymes have a similar pattern of activity, which is highest with hydrogen peroxide, followed by cumene hydroperoxide and tert-butyl hydroperoxide. Furthermore, both Grx1 and Grx2 are shown be active as glutathione S-transferases (GSTs), and their activity with model substrates such as 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene is similar to their activity with hydroperoxides. Analysis of the Grx1 active site residues shows that Cys-27, but not Cys-30, is required for both the peroxidase and transferase activities, indicating that these reactions proceed via a monothiol mechanism. Deletion analysis shows that Grx1 and Grx2 have an overlapping function with yeast GSTs, encoded by GTT1 and GTT2, and are responsible for the majority of cellular GST activity. In addition, multiple mutants lacking GRX1, GRX2, GTT1, and GTT2 show increased sensitivity to stress conditions, including exposure to xenobiotics, heat, and oxidants. In summary, glutaredoxins are multifunctional enzymes with oxidoreductase, peroxidase, and GST activity, and are therefore ideally suited to detoxify the wide range of xenobiotics and oxidants that can be generated during diverse stress conditions.
Herbicide safeners selectively protect crops from herbicide injury while maintaining the herbicidal effect on the target weed. To some extent, the detoxification of herbicides is related to the effect of herbicide safeners on the level and activity of herbicide target enzymes. In this work, the expression of the detoxifying enzyme glutathione S-transferase (GST) and antioxidant enzyme activities in maize seedlings were studied in the presence of three potential herbicide safeners: 3-dichloroacetyl oxazolidine and its two optical isomers. Further, the protective effect of chiral herbicide safeners on detoxifying chlorsulfuron in maize was evaluated. All safeners increased the expression levels of herbicide detoxifying enzymes, including GST, catalase (CAT), and peroxidase (POD) to reduce sulfonylurea herbicide phytotoxicity in maize seedlings. Our results indicate that the R-isomer of 3-(dichloroacetyl)-2,2,5-trimethyl-1,3-oxazolidine can induce glutathione (GSH) production, GST activity, and the ability of GST to react with the substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) in maize, meaning that the R-isomer can protect maize from damage by chlorsulfuron. Information about antioxidative enzyme activity was obtained to determine the role of chiral safeners in overcoming the oxidative stress in maize attributed to herbicides. The interaction of safeners and active target sites of acetolactate synthase (ALS) was demonstrated by molecular docking modeling, which indicated that both isomers could form a good interaction with ALS. Our findings suggest that the detoxification mechanism of chiral safeners might involve the induction of the activity of herbicide detoxifying enzymes as well as the completion of the target active site between the safener and chlorsulfuron.
Abstract The mechanism for formation of high-affinity binding of 1-(2,6-dichlorobenzylidene-amino)-3-hydroxyguanidine (guanoxabenz) to α 2 -adrenoceptors was studied in particulate fractions from the rat spleen. The proportion of apparent high versus low-affinity α 2 -adrenoceptor binding sites increased with increasing incubation time and was also augmented by Mg 2+ ions. The formation of high-affinity guanoxabenz binding seemed to be inhibited by a series of N -hydroxyguanidine analogs to guanoxabenz, as well as by a series of metabolic inhibitors that included allopurinol, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 5,5′-dithiobis-(2-nitrobenzoic acid), cibacron blue, phenyl- p -benzoquinone, didox, and trimidox. The formation of guanoxabenz high-affinity binding was also inhibited in a time- and concentration-dependent fashion by preincubating the membranes with the LW03 N -hydroxyguanidine analogue of guanoxabenz. Moreover, when the spleen membranes were extensively washed for 30 min with buffers at 25°, the guanoxabenz high-affinity binding disappeared. However, when these washed membranes were supplemented with xanthine, the apparent affinity of guanoxabenz increased four to five-fold. Taken together, all data were compatible with the theory that the formation of high-affinity binding was dependent on the generation of a guanoxabenz metabolite that showed an approximate 100-fold greater affinity for the α 2 -adrenoceptors than guanoxabenz itself. Because the most potent blocker of the formation of high-affinity binding was allopurinol (apart from some N -hydroxyguanidine analogs to guanoxabenz) and since the activity could be restored with xanthine, a likely candidate responsible for the metabolic activation is xanthine oxidase.
The in vitro interaction of 1,4-benzoquinone, 1,2- and 1,4-naphthoquinone, and 2-methyl-1,4-naphthoquinone with rat liver glutathione S-transferases (GST) was studied, using reduced glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrates. The inhibition of the GST activity by quinones in crude extracts was dose dependent. While most of the dihydroxynaphtalenes investigated also inhibited the GST activity, dihydroxybenzenes and catecholamines did not. The quinones inhibited all the GST isoenzymes, albeit at different degrees. Kinetic studies revealed mixed type function inhibition towards glutathione and competitive inhibition towards CDNB, implicating that quinones are GST substrates. This was further confirmed by titration of remaining glutathione in appropriate incubation mixtures. These results indicate that GST could have a protective function against quinones, and that catecholamines are conjugated with glutathione via a reactive quinone intermediate.
Herbicide safeners selectively protect crops from herbicide injury while maintaining the herbicidal effect on the target weed. To some extent, the detoxification of herbicides is related to the effect of herbicide safeners on the level and activity of herbicide target enzymes. In this work, the expression of the detoxifying enzyme glutathione S-transferase (GST) and antioxidant enzyme activities in maize seedlings were studied in the presence of three potential herbicide safeners: 3-dichloroacetyl oxazolidine and its two optical isomers. Further, the protective effect of chiral herbicide safeners on detoxifying chlorsulfuron in maize was evaluated. All safeners increased the expression levels of herbicide detoxifying enzymes, including GST, catalase (CAT), and peroxidase (POD) to reduce sulfonylurea herbicide phytotoxicity in maize seedlings. Our results indicate that the R-isomer of 3-(dichloroacetyl)-2,2,5-trimethyl-1,3-oxazolidine can induce glutathione (GSH) production, GST activity, and the ability of GST to react with the substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) in maize, meaning that the R-isomer can protect maize from damage by chlorsulfuron. Information about antioxidative enzyme activity was obtained to determine the role of chiral safeners in overcoming the oxidative stress in maize attributed to herbicides. The interaction of safeners and active target sites of acetolactate synthase (ALS) was demonstrated by molecular docking modeling, which indicated that both isomers could form a good interaction with ALS. Our findings suggest that the detoxification mechanism of chiral safeners might involve the induction of the activity of herbicide detoxifying enzymes as well as the completion of the target active site between the safener and chlorsulfuron.
Synthetic SF was a gift from Dr Gary H.Posner (Department of Chemistry, Johns Hopkins University). Allyl-ITC, benzyl-ITC, phenethyl-ITC, 2,5-bis(2-hydroxybenzylidene)-cyclopentanone (HBCP) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) were purchased from Aldrich (Milwaukee, WI).
Reagents. The mouse CYP2F2 cDNA clone in pBluescript SKϪ was a gift from Dr. J. Ritter (Medical College of Virginia, Richmond, VA). Recombinant CYP2F2 was previously produced in our laboratory (Shultz et al., 1999) . Spodoptera frugiperda (Sf9) and Trichoplusia ni (Tn5) cells were obtained from American Type Culture Collection (Manassas, VA) and Invitrogen (Carlsbad, CA), respectively. Ex-Cell 405 medium was purchased from JRH Biosciences (Lenexa, KS). Rat NADPH cytochrome P-450 oxidoreductase (reductase) was purified from rat liver using standard procedures (Strobel and Dignam, 1978) . Reductase was quantified by the standard cytochrome c reduction assay (Guengerich, 1994) . Glutathione S-transferase (GST) from mouse liver cytosol was purified by standard procedures using affinity column chromatography (Simons and Vander Jagt, 1981) , and activities were assessed with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate. Unless otherwise stated, all other reagents were purchased from commercial vendors and were of reagent/analytical grade.
Abstract Oxidative stress is known to induce cholestasis, but the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. In this study we have characterized the short-term effects of tert-butyl hydroperoxide (t-BOOH)- and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) on the mrp2 gene encoded canalicular export pump (Mrp2). The effects of t-BOOH and CDNB on bile formation, tissue GSH levels and subcellular Mrp2 localization were studied in perfused rat liver. Both, t-BOOH (0.5 mM) and CDNB (0.1mM) induced within 60 min a decrease of hepatic GSH levels by more than 90% and an almost complete cessation of bile flow. As revealed by confocal laser scanning microscopy, this cholestasis was accompanied by a loss of immunoreactive MRP2 from the canalicular membrane and its appearance inside the hepatocytes in putative intracellular vesicles. On the other hand, the intracellular distribution of dipeptidyl peptidase IV (DPPIV), another canalicular protein, and of zonula occludens associated polypeptide (ZO-1) remained unaffected, indicating selectivity of the Mrp2 retrieval pattern. Both, t-BOOH and CDNB induced a rapid net K+ efflux from the liver and a significant decrease of liver cell hydration. We conclude that severe glutathione depletion induces cholestasis by a retrieval of Mrp2, but not of DPPIV from the canalicular membrane. The underlying mechanism is unclear; however, a decrease in liver cell hydration, which occurs under these conditions, may contribute to this effect.
Abstract Glutathione S -transferases (GSTs) from a susceptible (Sete Lagoas) and two pyrethroid-resistant populations (Jacarezinho and Juiz de Fora) of the maize weevil Sitophilus zeamais Motschulsky (Coleoptera: Curculionidae) were characterized through in vitro colorimetric assays. GSTs showed higher activity peaks at pH 9.0 and 30 °C. The K m -values for GSTs were similar among the populations except for the resistant population from Juiz de Fora, which was about two-fold higher than the susceptible population from Sete Lagoas when using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrate (and a fixed concentration of reduced glutathione—GSH). The V max of this same resistant population was also over two-fold higher than that of the pyrethroid-susceptible population when CDNB and GSH were used as substrates. The resistant population from Jacarezinho also had a slightly, but significantly, higher V max than the susceptible population when using these two substrates. However, there were no significant differences among the kinetic parameters of GSTs from the maize weevil populations when DCNB and GSH were used as substrates. These results provide evidence of the involvement of enhanced GST activity as an additional pyrethroid-resistant mechanism in at least some maize weevil populations from Brazil.
Abstract Background Radix Saposhnikovia (RS), called “Fangfeng” in China, is commonly used in Chinese medicinal formulae to treat allergic and inflammatory diseases. However, the underlying mechanisms of RS in ameliorating allergy remain unknown. Purpose To study the effects of RS extract on allergic contact dermatitis (ACD) in a mouse model and to investigate the underlying mechanisms in vivo and ex vivo . Methods ACD was induced by sensitizing the mice and treating an ear auricle with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB). RS extract was administered during the sensitization and/or elicitation phase. Ear swelling was noted and lymphocytic infiltration was investigated with hematoxylin and eosin staining. The cytokines in the sera and the supernatants of lymphocyte cultures were determined with enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. Lymphocyte proliferation was assessed with a 3-(4,5)-dimethylthiazol-2-y1)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay. The maturation of dendritic cells (DCs) and the differentiation of T cells were examined with flow cytometry. The mRNA expression of T -bet, GATA-3, and forkhead box p3 (Foxp3) was evaluated with real-time PCR. Results RS extract (1.3 or 2.6 g/kg) markedly reduced the ear swelling and the intense cellular infiltration of inflammatory cells in the ear tissue. The ratio of interferon γ (IFN-γ)/interleukin 4 (IL-4) was reduced in the sera of the DNCB-sensitized mice and the lymphocyte culture supernatants after treatment with the extract. Further study of the initial stage of ACD revealed that RS extract prevented the differentiation of naive T cells into Th1 cells, reduced the proportion of CD3 + CD4 + (Th) cells, and suppressed the secretion of IFN-γ and the expression of T -bet mRNA in lymphocytes. The RS extract also reduced the proportion of DCs in the sensitized mouse lymphocytes and the expression of CD40 + CD86 + cells in the DCs. Conclusion RS extract is effective in treating ACD because it regulates the development of DCs and DC-activated Th1 differentiation.
Abstract The cytosolic glutathione S-transferase from an Aedes albopictus cell line, C6/36, was sensitive to tetranitromethane, phenylglyoxal or pyridoxal phosphate modification, but was unaffected by N -acetylimidazole or diethyl pyrocarbonate. The extent of inactivation of the enzyme by those sensitive reagents was dependent on reagent concentrations but was biphasic in nature and did not follow pseudo-first-order kinetics. Glutathione, ethacrynic acid, S -(hexyl)glutathione, or S -(2,4-di-nitrophenyl)glutathione gave substantial protection of the enzyme from inactivation by these reagents. The modified enzyme showed varying Michaelis constants for glutathione ( K mGSH ) or 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene ( K mCDNB ) and a smaller catalytic constant ( k cat . These results indicate the involvement of tyrosine, arginine and lysine residues in the reaction mechanism of the mosquito C6/36 cell glutathione S-transferase. From the results of chemical modification and previous pH studies [Chang G.-G., Tsai L.-N., Tang S.-S., and Wang T.-C. (1994) Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 310, 134–143, we propose that tyrosine residue functions as a general base, promoting ionization of the thiol group of enzyme-bound glutathione and resulting in formation of a more reactive nucleophile thiolate that facilitates conjugation. The essential arginine and lysine residues may participate in maintenance of the correct active center structure.
Aqueous extracts of green tea, at concentrations of 2.5, 5.0 and 7.5%, were administered to rats as the sole drinking fluid for 4 weeks. Hepatic glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity, determined using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and 3,4-dichloronitrobenzene (DCNB) as substrates, and UDP-glucuronosyl transferase activity, determined using 2-aminophenol as substrate, were induced but the effect was not always dose dependent. At the two highest doses, hepatic catalase activity was inhibited. In a second study, animals were exposed for 4 weeks to aqueous extracts (2.5%, v/v) of green tea, black tea (which has a much lower content of flavanols compared with green tea) and decaffeinated black tea. Treatment with the black tea enhanced GST activity, whether monitored using CDNB or DCNB, and the glucuronidation of 2-aminophenol. Treatment with decaffeinated black tea failed to modulate any of these activities, whereas treatment with green tea only enhanced the glucuronidation of 2-aminophenol. Finally, at this concentration of tea extract administration, black and decaffeinated black tea, but not green tea, suppressed catalase activity. It is concluded that neither flavanols nor caffeine are responsible for the induction of hepatic Phase II activities and inhibition of catalase activity in the rat.
Glutathione S-transferase from the mediterranean fruit fly Ceratitis capitata was purified to apparent homogeneity. The enzyme has an iso-electric point near pH 5.7, and a molecular weight of 43,000. The protein is composed of two, almost identical subunits of 22,000 and 21,000 molecular weight. The purified enzyme catalyzed bisubstrate reaction involving 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and reduced glutathione followed a steady-state random mechanism. The inhibitory effect of the S-substituted reduced glutathione derivative, S-(4,6-dinitrophenyl)glutathione on the conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene displayed noncompetitive inhibition pattern. The organophosphorus insecticide malathion was a competitive inhibitor of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene conjugation. An Arrhenius plot for the conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene yielded a straight regression line with no apparent temperature breaks being evident. The same enzyme catalyzed the conjugation of reduced glutathione with methyl iodide, styrene oxide, and parathion.
The inducing activities of two alkaloids, strychnine and brucine, on the hepatic drug metabolizing enzymes were studied in rats. Administration of strychnine in the drinking water to rats significantly increased the hepatic microsomal activities of benzphetamine N-demethylation, strychnine 2-hydroxylation and testosterone hydroxylations at positions 16 alpha and 16 beta. These results together with that of immunostaining of microsomal proteins revealed that strychnine is a potent inducer of CYP2B1 and 2B2. The comparable induction of CYP2B1/2 was observed by brucine treatment with less toxic effect. Although this inducer increased CYP2B cytochrome P450s (P450s) to the maximum levels after 4 consecutive days of administration, the maximal increase by strychnine was attained after 3 days of administration. Immunoblotting experiment suggested that significant proteolysis of CYP2B1 occurs during treatment by strychnine and brucine. These alkaloids exhibited no ability to induce the activities of testosterone hydroxylations at positions 2 alpha, 6 beta and 7 alpha, benzo[a]pyrene 3-hydroxylation and aniline hydroxylation. In addition to the CYP2B P450, strychnine and brucine induced glutathione S-transferase toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and UDP-glucuronosyltransferase toward 4-nitrophenol. On the other hand, the glucuronidations of 4-hydroxybiphenyl and morphine were not enhanced by alkaloid treatments. These results indicated that strychnine and brucine cause phenobarbital-like induction of the P450 enzyme, but show a different profile from phenobarbital in the induction of UDP-glucuronosyltransferase.
BACKGROUND ::: Clonorchis sinensis causes a major food-borne helminthic infection. This species locates in mammalian hepatobiliary ducts, where oxidative stressors and hydrophobic substances are profuse. To adapt to the hostile micromilieu and to ensure its long-term survival, the parasite continuously produces a diverse repertoire of antioxidant enzymes including several species of glutathione transferases (GSTs). Helminth GSTs play pertinent roles during sequestration of harmful xenobiotics since most helminths lack the cytochrome P-450 detoxifying enzyme. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: We isolated and analyzed the biochemical properties of two omega-class GSTs of C. sinensis (CsGSTo1 and CsGSTo2). We observed spatiotemporal expression patterns in accordance with the maturation of the worm's reproductive system. Possible biological protective roles of CsGSTos in these organs under oxidative stress were investigated. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: The full-length cDNAs of CsGSTo1 and 2 constituted 965 bp and 1,061 bp with open reading frames of 737 bp (246 amino acids) and 669 bp (223 amino acids). They harbored characteristic N-terminal thioredoxin-like and C-terminal α-helical domains. A cysteine residue, which constituted omega-class specific active site, and the glutathione-binding amino acids, were recognized in appropriate positions. They shared 44 % sequence identity with each other and 14.8-44.8 % with orthologues/homologues from other organisms. Bacterially expressed recombinant proteins (rCsGSTo1 and 2) exhibited dehydroascorbate reductase (DHAR) and thioltransferase activities. DHAR activity was higher than thioltransferase activity. They showed weak canonical GST activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. S-hexylglutathione potently and competitively inhibited the active-site at nanomolar concentrations (0.63 and 0.58 nM for rCsGSTo1 and 2). Interestingly, rCsGSTos exhibited high enzyme activity toward mu- and theta-class GST specific substrate, 4-nitrobenzyl chloride. Expression of CsGSTo transcripts and proteins increased beginning in 2-week-old juveniles and reached their highest levels in 4-week-old adults. The proteins were mainly expressed in the elements of the reproductive system, such as vitelline follicles, testes, seminal receptacle, sperm and eggs. Oxidative stressors induced upregulated expression of CsGSTos in these organs. Regardless of oxidative stresses, CsGSTos continued to be highly expressed in eggs. CsGSTo1 or 2 overexpressing bacteria demonstrated high resistance under oxidative killing. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: CsGSTos might be critically involved in protection of the reproductive system during maturation of C. sinensis worms and in response to oxidative conditions, thereby contributing to maintenance of parasite fecundity.
J. Econ. Entomol. 88(4): 777-781 (1995) The intensive use of insecticides to control the beet armyworm, Spodoptera exigua, in greenhouse crops in The Netherlands may lead to tolerance. Differences in toxicity to commonly used insecticides are explored in a laboratory susceptible population obtained from France (L) and a population collected from greenhouses in The Netherlands (G), in which reduction in pesticide efficacy was observed. The greatest reduction in susceptibility for the G strain was noticed with deltamethrin (6- to 8-fold). We detected no difference in biological activity toward methomyl between the 2 pest populations. The G:L ratio at the LC 50 level for L 5 larvae was 2.2 and 3.1 for diflubenzuron and teflubenzuron, respectively. Rates of enzyme activity were significantly greater in the greenhouse population than in larvae from the laboratory-susceptible population for the substrates of glutathione S-transferases (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene [CDNB] [1.2-fold], 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene [DCNB] [1.4-fold]), microsomal oxidases (N-demethylase [1.4-fold], and O-demethylase [2-fold]), carboxylamidases (1.7-fold), and acetylcholinesterases (1.5-fold). We observed no significant differences between the rates of general ester hydrolysis for α- and β-naphthyl acetate. The G strain appears to have less sensitive acetylcholinesterases, because bimolecular order rate constants were 1.9-and 2.7-fold lower for methomyl and dichlorvos, respectively. In addition to target site insensitivity in the G population, the diversity of enhanced detoxifying enzymes may contribute to a reduced susceptibility to a wide range of insecticides.
Cattle represent an important source of animal-derived foodproducts; nonetheless, our knowledge about the expression of drug-metabolizing enzymes (DMEs) in present and other foodproducing animals still remains superficial, despite the obvious toxicological consequences. Breed represents an internal factor that modulates DME expression and catalytic activity. In the present work, the effect of breed upon relevant phase I and phase II DMEs was investigated at the pretranscriptional and post-translational levels in male Charolais (CH), Piedmontese (PM) and Blonde d’Aquitaine (BA) cattle. Because specific substrates for cattle have not yet been identified, the breed effect upon specific cytochrome P450 (P450), UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT), or glutathione S-transferase (GST) DMEs, in terms of catalytic activity, was determined by using human marker substrates. Among P450s, benzphetamine N-demethylase, 16-, 6-, and 2-testosterone hydroxylase, aniline and p-nitrophenol hydroxylase, and -naphthol and p-nitrophenol UGT activities were significantly higher in CH; in contrast, lower levels of CYP1A1-, CYP1A2-, CYP2B6-, CYP2C9-, CYP2C18-, CYP3A4-, and UGT1A1-like mRNAs were noticed, with CH < PM < BA as a trend. CYP2B and CYP3A mRNA results were confirmed with immunoblotting, too. As regards conjugative DMEs, UGT1A6like mRNA levels were consistent with respective catalytic activities. Both 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 3,4-dichloronitrobenzene GST activities were higher in BA, and these results agreed with GSTA1-, GSTM1-, and GSTP1-like mRNA amounts. Correlation analysis between catalytic activities and mRNAs showed either significant or uneven results, depending on the substrate. These findings confirm previous data obtained in laboratory species; however, further studies are required to ascribe this behavior to pretranscriptional or post-translational phenomena.
Abstract Studies were conducted to determine the effects of the antioxidant nutrients selenium (Se) and vitamin E (VE) on the concentrations of glutathione (GSH) and activities of two GSH-metabolizing enzymes, Se-dependent GSH-peroxidase (SeGSHpx) and GSH S-transferase (GSH-T), in the chick. The hepatic activity of GSH-T, assayed using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate (GSH-T CDNB ), was greater in chicks depleted of both Se and VE than in chicks fed adequate levels of either nutrient. This effect was only observed when the Se deficiency was severe enough to result in a very substantial loss of SeGSHpx activity (e.g., 8% of control levels); it was not observed unless chicks were also deficient in VE. Chicks fed the Se-deficient diet supplemented with a low level of VE (2 IU/kg) failed to show hepatic GSH-T CDNB activities greater than controls. Chicks fed the Se-deficient diet had plasma GSH concentrations greater than those of Se-fed chicks, which difference was intensified by concomittant VE deficiency. These results show that GSH metabolism in the chick can be affected by nutritional status with respect to VE as well as Se. It is suggested that the increased hepatic activity of GSH-T CDNB that occurs in nutritional Se- and VE-deficiency may be a response to altered GSH metabolism rather than a compensation for loss of SeGSHpx.
Noninbred Long-Evans rats fed the reduced form of glutathione (GSH) 2 hours before injection with 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene [(DMBA) CAS: 57-97-6)] showed a significant suppression of DMBA-induced chromosome aberrations (CA) in bone marrow cells. However, rats given injections of ethyl maleate [(EM) CAS: 141-05-9; (z)-2-butenedioic acid diethyl ester] 0.5 or 2 hours before being killed showed a remarkable fall in the hepatic GSH level. Furthermore, the administration of EM and bromosulfophthalein [CAS: 71-67-0; 3,3'-(4,5,6,7-tetrabromo-3-oxo-1(3H)-isobenzofuranylidene) bis(6-hydroxy)benzenesulfonic acid disodium salt] shortly before the DMBA injection inhibited the suppressive effects of Sudan III on DMBA-induced CA. A clear positive correlation was found between the capacity of Sudan III and related azo dyes to protect against DMBA-induced CA in bone marrow cells and glutathione transferase (GST) activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in the liver cytosol induced by these azo dyes. DMBA activation with hepatic S-9 obtained from rats treated by polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB), phenobarbital, and Sudan III in the Ames system was high in this order as was also the case for the cytochrome P450 content. The addition of GSH to the Ames system containing S-9 from PCB-treated rats resulted in a substantial loss in the mutagenicity of DMBA. The present results suggest that GST and GSH play important roles in DMBA inactivation in rats previously administered Sudan III.
1. ::: 1. Properties of the GSH S-transferases of one Enchytreidae and 9 species of earthworms were investigated. ::: ::: 2. ::: 2. All species had relatively high activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and ethacrynic acid, but many other candidate substrates gave low or no activity. The worms seem to be devoid of transmethylase activity and “ligandin” properties. ::: ::: 3. ::: 3. The nephridia had the highest specific activity, but the enzymes were present in all the tissues investigated. ::: ::: 4. ::: 4. The stability of GSH S-transferase activity was low in all species and very low in the genus Lumbricus if GSH was not present. ::: ::: 5. ::: 5. The molecular weight, as established by gel filtration, was slightly lower for GSH S-transferase in the worm Eisenia foetida than in rat liver. ::: ::: 6. ::: 6. Anion exchange and hydroxyl apatite adsorption chromatography showed that the activity of E. foetida GSH S-transferase was due to several enzymes.
1.Octodon degus shows greater tolerance to pentobarbital as compared with the Wistar rat. ::: ::: 2. Mixed function oxidase activities in liver microsomes were higher in Octodon degus than in the Wistar rat. The reactions assayed were: aminopyrine N-demethylation, aniline and naphthalene hydroxylation and p-nitroanisole O-demethylation. These higher activities seem to be due mainly to the greater cytochrome P-450 content of liver microsomes of Octodon degus. ::: ::: 3. Glutathione S-transferase activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was 30 times higher in Octodon degus than in the Wistar rat. ::: ::: 4. These results may explain the tolerance of Octodon degus to pentobarbital and other drugs.
Glutathione transferases (GSTs) catalysing the conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, the chloro-s-triazine herbicide atrazine, the chloroacetanilide herbicides metolachlor and alachlor and the diphenyl ether herbicide fluorodifen have been identified in suspension-cultured cells derived from the grass weed giant foxtail (Setaria faberi Herrm.). In contrast to suspension-cultured cells of maize, where atrazine-conjugating GSTs are lost during de-differentiation, the GSTs active toward this herbicide in S. faberi plants were also expressed in cultures, suggesting that these isoenzymes are subject to different regulation in the crop and weed. As a result, glutathione conjugation was the major route of atrazine metabolism in S. faberi cultures. Activities of these GSTs were maximal three days after sub-culturing when the cells were dividing most actively, when they were determined to be in the order CDNB>alachlor>metolachlor= fluorodifen>atrazine. This indicated that GSTs which are enhanced during cell division can metabolise herbicides. On the basis of activity per mg protein, GST activities in the cultures were between 20 and 60-fold higher than those determined in the foliage of S. faberi seedlings. The GSTs with activity towards CDNB were resolved into three peaks following anion-exchange chromatography at pH 7·8 using Q-Sepharose. Peak 1 GSTs were not retained, while peak 2 and peak 3 were sequentially resolved with an increasing concentration of salt. Peak 1 GSTs showed activity toward metolachlor and atrazine but showed little activity toward fluorodifen. Peak 2 and peak 3 GSTs were active toward atrazine and metolachlor, with peak 3 being particularly associated with activity toward fluorodifen. The GSTs in these peaks were then further purified using S-hexyl-glutathione-agarose affinity chromatography. In each case, the affinity-bound fraction of the GSTs consisted of 28 kDa and 26 kDa polypeptides, suggesting that the GST isoenzymes in S. faberi cultures are composed of related subunits. Our results demonstrate that the GST isoenzymes involved in herbicide metabolism in suspension cultures of a grass weed show a similar level of complexity to that determined in maize cell cultures. © 1998 SCI
Summary The effects of (+)-catechin (CAT) and dithiocarb (DTC) on the glutathione-conjugating system of rat liver were investigated after a single dose as well as after repeated treatment for 7 and for 28 days. The hepatic levels of reduced glutathione (GSH) remained unaffected in all cases. Both agents exerted a significant reduction of the glutathione S-transferase activity towards an epoxide substrate (1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy) propane, ENPP) following the application of a single dose (200 mg/kg p.o.). Seven-days treatment with either agent had no effect, whereas the treatment for 28 days evoked a dose-dependent inhibition of the epoxide transferase activity. The GSH S-transferase activity towards an aryl substrate (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, CDNB) was depressed only after treatment with (+)-catechin for seven days or for four weeks. In vitro studies revealed for the aryl transferase activity an inhibition by DTC being of the competitive type with respect to GSH and of the non-competitive type with respect to CDNB. Mixed-type inhibition was found with CAT with respect to either substrate. As for the epoxide transferase activity DTC exerted a mixed-type inhibition with respect to GSH and a competitive type inhibition with respect to ENPP. CAT was inhibitory only with respect to GSH giving rise to a non-competitive type inhibition. Apparant K I -values lay between 0.3 and 1 mmol/1.
Diabetes mellitus leads to a series of metabolic disturbances; they are found not only in the metabolism of carbohydrates, lipids, and proteins, but also in xenobiotic metabolism. Cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2B1, 2E1, 3A, and 4A protein and activity levels have been reported to be increased in experimental animals and humans with diabetes (Bellward et al., 1988; Barnett et al., 1990; Song et al., 1990 GSTs, H89,ethyl]-5-isoquinoline sulfonamide; PI3-kinase, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase; Br-cAMP, 8-bromo-cAMP; DB-cAMP, dibutyryl-cAMP; PKA, protein kinase A; LDH, lactate dehydrogenase; CDNB, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene; DCNB, 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene; NBD, 7-chloro-4-nitrobenzo-2-oxa-1,3-diazole; EA, ethacrynic acid; ARE, antioxidant response element; MAP, mitogen-activated protein; PBS, phosphate-buffered saline; PBS-T, 0.05% Tween 20 in PBS.
Results: The full-length cDNAs of CsGSTo1 and 2 constituted 965 bp and 1,061 bp with open reading frames of 737 bp (246 amino acids) and 669 bp (223 amino acids). They harbored characteristic N-terminal thioredoxin-like and C-terminal α-helical domains. A cysteine residue, which constituted omega-class specific active site, and the glutathione-binding amino acids, were recognized in appropriate positions. They shared 44 % sequence identity with each other and 14.8-44.8 % with orthologues/homologues from other organisms. Bacterially expressed recombinant proteins (rCsGSTo1 and 2) exhibited dehydroascorbate reductase (DHAR) and thioltransferase activities. DHAR activity was higher than thioltransferase activity. They showed weak canonical GST activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. S-hexylglutathione potently and competitively inhibited the active-site at nanomolar concentrations (0.63 and 0.58 nM for rCsGSTo1 and 2). Interestingly, rCsGSTos exhibited high enzyme activity toward mu-and theta-class GST specific substrate, 4-nitrobenzyl chloride. Expression of CsGSTo transcripts and proteins increased beginning in 2-week-old juveniles and reached their highest levels in 4-week-old adults. The proteins were mainly expressed in the elements of the reproductive system, such as vitelline follicles, testes, seminal receptacle, sperm and eggs. Oxidative stressors induced upregulated expression of CsGSTos in these organs. Regardless of oxidative stresses, CsGSTos continued to be highly expressed in eggs. CsGSTo1 or 2 overexpressing bacteria demonstrated high resistance under oxidative killing.
Cattle represent an important source of animal-derived foodproducts; nonetheless, our knowledge about the expression of drug-metabolizing enzymes (DMEs) in present and other foodproducing animals still remains superficial, despite the obvious toxicological consequences. Breed represents an internal factor that modulates DME expression and catalytic activity. In the present work, the effect of breed upon relevant phase I and phase II DMEs was investigated at the pretranscriptional and post-translational levels in male Charolais (CH), Piedmontese (PM) and Blonde d'Aquitaine (BA) cattle. Because specific substrates for cattle have not yet been identified, the breed effect upon specific cytochrome P450 (P450), UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT), or glutathione S-transferase (GST) DMEs, in terms of catalytic activity, was determined by using human marker substrates. Among P450s, benzphetamine N-demethylase, 16␤-, 6␤-, and 2␤-testosterone hydroxylase, aniline and p-nitrophenol hydroxylase, and ␣-naphthol and p-nitrophenol UGT activities were significantly higher in CH; in contrast, lower levels of CYP1A1-, CYP1A2-, CYP2B6-, CYP2C9-, CYP2C18-, CYP3A4-, and UGT1A1-like mRNAs were noticed, with CH < PM < BA as a trend. CYP2B and CYP3A mRNA results were confirmed with immunoblotting, too. As regards conjugative DMEs, UGT1A6-like mRNA levels were consistent with respective catalytic activities. Both 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 3,4-dichloronitrobenzene GST activities were higher in BA, and these results agreed with GSTA1-, GSTM1-, and GSTP1-like mRNA amounts. Correlation analysis between catalytic activities and mRNAs showed either significant or uneven results, depending on the substrate. These findings confirm previous data obtained in laboratory species; however, further studies are required to ascribe this behavior to pretranscriptional or post-translational phenomena.
GSTs have been classified based on biochemical and structural properties, including their catalytic activity towards CDNB (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene), a standard substrate for almost all GSTs (Rossjohn et al., 1998; Travensolo et al., 2008) . In eukaryotes, the soluble GSTs have been grouped into several independent classes, i.e. , , , !, , , and (mammals), , " and U (insects), , ' and (plants) and (fish), on the basis of similarity of the N-terminal amino-acid sequence, substrate specificity, immunological crossreactivity and structural properties (Mannervik et al., 1985; Board et al., 1997 Board et al., , 2000 Sawicki et al., 2003; Hayes et al., 2004; Kosloff et al., 2006) . However, only -class GSTs have been identified in prokaryotes, with members having been isolated and characterized from bacteria such as Escherichia coli, Haemophilus influenzae, Proteus mirabilis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Streptomyces griseus (Di Ilio et al., 1988; Iizuka et al., 1989; Jung et al., 1996; Dainelli et al., 2002; Dhar et al., 2003) . The majority of prokaryotic GSTs have also been shown to possess peroxidase activity, to act as epoxide thiolases and to catalyse reactions in the metabolism of some compound (Bartels et al., 1999) .
Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) are the non-selective amine re-uptake inhibitors, well absorbed from small intestine, cross the blood–brain barrrier, distributed in the brain, and are bound to glutathione S-transferase-π (GST-π). TCAs can pass through placenta, accumulate in utero baby, and cause congenital malformations. Thus, the study of the interaction of GST-π with antidepressants is crucial. In this study, the interaction of GST-π with amitriptyline and clomipramine was investigated. The K m values for glutathione (GSH) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) were found to be 0.16 ± 0.04 and 3.60 ± 1.67 mM, respectively. The V m values were varying according to the fixed substrate; [CDNB] fixed, 53 ± 3 and [GSH] fixed 182 ± 63 U/mg protein. At variable [GSH] and variable [CDNB], the k cat values of 7.0 × 106 and 1.42 × 107 s−1 and the k cat/K m values of 4.38 × 1010 and 3.94 × 109 M−1 s−1 were obtained, respectively. At fixed [CDNB] and variable [GSH], amitriptyline (K s = 0.16 ± 0.03 mM; α = 2.08; and K i = 1.75 ± 0.37 mM) and clomipramine (K s = 0.24 ± 0.05 mM; α = 1.57; and K i = 3.90 ± 2.26 mM) showed linear mixed-type inhibition whereas when the varied substrate is CDNB, amitriptyline (K i = 4.90 ± 0.68 mM) and clomipramine (K i = 3.37 ± 0.39 mM) inhibition were noncompetitive. The inhibition of GST-π by TCAs means the destruction of its protective role against toxic electrophiles. The effect of antidepressants on fetus will be much severe, thus, the antidepressant therapy of pregnant women should be done with caution.
The regulation of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon-inducible enzymes, cytochrome P450IA1, NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase, and glutathione S-transferases, by glucocorticoids was investigated using primary fetal rat hepatocyte culture. Treatment of cells in culture with 1,2-benzanthracene (100 microM, 72 hr) resulted in 60-, 2-, and 6-fold increases in cytochrome P450IA1, glutathione S-transferase, and NAD(P)H:quinone reductase activities, respectively. The inductive effect of 1,2-benzanthracene on cytochrome P450IA1 and glutathione S-transferase (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene conjugation) activities was potentiated approximately 3- and 2- to 3-fold, respectively, when dexamethasone (0.01-1 microM) was included in the culture medium. In contrast, 1 microM dexamethasone was found not to potentiate the induction of NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase activity by 1,2-benzanthracene. Treatment of cultured hepatocytes with dexamethasone alone, at concentrations of up to 100 microM, resulted in a 2- to 4-fold increase in glutathione S-transferase and NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase activity. Both the induction of glutathione S-transferase activity by high concentrations of dexamethasone alone and the potentiation of 1,2-benzanthracene induction by lower concentrations of dexamethasone were observed for other steroids of the glucocorticoid class in conjunction with a variety of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons. Western immunoblot analyses indicated that low concentrations of dexamethasone (0.1-1 microM) potentiated 1,2-benzanthracene-dependent induction of cytochrome P450IA1, glutathione S-transferase Ya/Yc subunit and NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase content. Additionally, increased glutathione S-transferase activity in response to concentrations of dexamethasone exceeding 1 microM was associated with concomitant increases in Ya/Yc and Yb subunit content. Potentiation of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon induction of cytochrome P450IA1, glutathione S-transferase, and NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase protein content by low concentrations of glucocorticoids and induction of glutathione S-transferase and NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase by high concentrations of glucocorticoids alone indicates the importance of these endogenous compounds in the regulation of some hepatic enzymes involved in xenobiotic metabolism.
Abstract Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are known to alter the mammalian antioxidant defense system. To determine whether similar detoxification processes are activated in human neuronal cells, we investigated activities of antioxidant enzymes and the glutathione status (i.e., the levels of reduced and oxidized glutathione, GSH and GSSG) in human neuronal SK-N-MC cells exposed to 2,2′,5,5′-tetrachlorobiphenyl (PCB 52). Upon PCB 52 treatment, time- and concentration-dependent inhibitions of cell viability were observed. PCB 52 did not affect GSH contents upon increasing the concentration up to 15 μg/ml, but significant depletions in GSH were observed at the concentrations of 20 and 25 μg/ml. PCB 52 exposure increased GSSG levels in the SK-N-MC cells, while GSH levels were decreased, and these changes naturally modified the GSSG/GSH ratios. Cytosolic glutathione S -transferase (GST) activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate was enhanced by two-fold in neuronal cells after exposure to PCB 52 versus controls. In contrast, neuronal cells showed a sustained decrease in glutathione peroxidase activity with increasing concentrations of PCB 52, and a sustained decrease in Cu/Zn–superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity with increasing concentrations of PCB 52. Catalase activity was increased until 12 h after exposure to PCB 52, but was decreased 24 h after exposure. Overall, these results imply a major effect of PCB 52 on GSH status and upon the activities of antioxidant enzymes in human neuronal SK-N-MC cells, and upon the overall process of detoxification in human neuronal cells.
Hepatic glutathione S-transferase activities were determined with the substrates 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Sexual differentiation of glutathione S-transferase activities is not evident during the prepubertal period, but glutathione conjugation with 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene is 2-3-fold greater in adult males than in females. Glutathione conjugation with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene is slightly higher in adult males than adult females. No change in activity was observed after postpubertal gonadectomy of males or females. Neonatal castration of males results in a significant decrease in glutathione conjugation with 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene. Hypophysectomy, or hypophysectomy followed by gonadectomy did result in significantly higher glutathione S-transferase activities in both sexes. These increases can be reversed by implanting an adult male or female pituitary or four prepubertal pituitaries under the kidney capsule. Postpubertal sexual differentiation of glutathione S-transferase activities is neither dependent on pituitary sexual differentiation nor pituitary maturation. Prolactin concentrations are inversely related to glutathione S-transferase activities in hypophysectomized rats with or without ectopic pituitaries. Somatotropin exogenously administered to hypophysectomized rats results in decreased glutathione S-transferase activities, whereas prolactin has no effect. Adult male rats treated neonatally with monosodium l-glutamate to induce arcuate nucleus lesions of the hypothalamus have decreased glutathione S-transferase activities towards 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene and decreased somatotropin concentrations. Our experiments suggests that sexual differentiation of hepatic glutathione S-transferase is a result of a hypothalamic inhibiting factor in the male (absent in the female). This postpubertally expressed inhibiting factor acts on the pituitary to prevent secretion of a pituitary inhibiting factor (autonomously secreted by the female), resulting in higher glutathione S-transferase activities in the adult male than the adult female.
The purpose of this study was to compare two methods of testing for allergenicity: in vivo and in vitro modifications of local lymph node assays (LLNA) in mice and the maximization and epicutaneous skin tests in guinea pigs as per the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (1981). Two pesticides—the synthetic pyrethroid insecticide supermethrin (SM) and the herbicide phenoxyacetic acid (PAA)—were evaluated using this testing battery. 1-Chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB) was selected as a reference allergen for the local lymph node assay. ::: ::: ::: ::: In vitro modification of LLNA proliferative response per standard cell count in lymphocyte cultures derived from treated Balb/c mice did not differ from control mice. Results of the in vivo modification showed that treatment with 50% PAA and 50% SM resulted in a lower proliferation response of lymphocytes in lymph nodes compared with control animals. The vigour of the proliferative response varied more in in vivo modification of LLNA. Stimulation indices were <3, so PAA and SM did not indicate classification as allergens. ::: ::: ::: ::: Lymphocyte proliferation in 1% DNCB-activated lymph nodes was approximately fivefold higher than in those derived from control mice. Proliferation response in vitro calculated as stimulation index was higher in DNCB-treated mice than those observed in vivo, but differences were not dramatic. ::: ::: ::: ::: Auricular lymph node weight and cellularity in mice treated with PAA and SM were similar to controls. The DNCB stimulation index for lymph node cellularity was 5.5. Lymph node weight was three times higher in comparison with controls. ::: ::: ::: ::: In the maximization test in guinea pigs SM and PAA acid resulted in 40% and 50% of animals demonstrating sensitization, respectively. Epicutaneous administration resulted in weaker reaction. Both SM and PAA are mildly strong sensitizers by this battery. Copyright © 2001 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Glutathione transferases (GSTs) play an important role in the detoxification of insecticides, and as such, they are a key contributor to enhanced resistance to insecticides. In the housefly (Musca domestica), two epsilon-class GSTs (MdGST6A and MdGST6B) that share high sequence homology have been identified, which are believed to be involved in resistance against insecticides. The structural determinants controlling the substrate specificity and enzyme activity of MdGST6s are unknown. The aim of this study was to crystallize and perform structural analysis of the GST isozyme, MdGST6B. The crystal structure of MdGST6B complexed with reduced glutathione (GSH) was determined at a resolution of 1.8 Å. MdGST6B was found to have a typical GST folding comprised of N-terminal and C-terminal domains. Arg113 and Phe121 on helix 4 were shown to protrude into the substrate binding pocket, and as a result, the entrance of the substrate binding pocket was narrower compared to delta- and epsilon-class GSTs from Africa malaria vector Anopheles gambiae, agGSTd1-6 and agGSTe2, respectively. This substrate pocket narrowing is partly due to the presence of a π-helix in the middle of helix 4. Among the six residues that donate hydrogen bonds to GSH, only Arg113 was located in the C-terminal domain. Ala substitution of Arg113 did not have a significant effect on enzyme activity, suggesting that the Arg113 hydrogen bond does not play a crucial role in catalysis. On the other hand, mutation at Phe108, located just below Arg113 in the binding pocket, reduced the affinity and catalytic activity to both GSH and the electrophilic co-substrate, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene.
Human carcinoma HSC-2 cells were more sensitive to a 24 h exposure to gallic acid than were normal human gingival fibroblasts. Acting as a prooxidant, gallic acid generated hydrogen peroxide in cell culture medium. The potency of gallic acid to HSC-2 cells was significantly lessened in the presence of scavengers of hydrogen peroxide, including catalase, pyruvate, and divalent cobalt cations, and was potentiated in the presence of the intracellular glutathione depleters, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, bis(2-chloroethyl)-N-nitrosourea, and DL-buthionine-[S,R]-sulfoximine. Exposure of HSC-2 cells to gallic acid decreased the level of intracellular reduced glutathione, caused lipid peroxidation, and increased the level of intracellular reactive oxygen species. Flow cytometric analyses of gallic acid-treated HSC-2 cells indicated a concentration-dependent response for the induction of apoptosis, which was reversed in the presence of divalent cobalt. Immunoblot analyses of gallic acid-treated cells showed proteolytic inactivation of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase, an indication of apoptosis, which was also reversed in the presence of divalent cobalt cations. These studies demonstrated that the cytotoxic activities of gallic acid to HSC-2 cells were mediated through autooxidation of the polyphenol, leading to the induction of oxidative stress and thereby apoptotic cell death.
Abstract Multiple glutathione S-transferase (GST; EC 2.5.1.18) activity peaks were characterized by fast protein liquid chromatography (FPLC) in three genetic lines of rice (Oryza sativa L.). Root-applied pretilachlor (0.15 μM) inhibited root growth of 5-day-old etiolated seedlings by 67% in Teqing (indica type), 54% in Koshihikari (japonica type), and 34% in Lemont (indica x japonica type). The safener fenclorim (1 μM) prevented the injury caused by pretilachlor in all genotypes. GST activity from 5-day-old untreated or fenclorim-treated seedlings of the three genetic lines was assayed using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), radiolabeled pretilachlor, and radiolabeled fenclorim as substrates. GST activity with each substrate was greater in roots than in shoots of the three genotypes. Treatment with fenclorim increased GST activity in roots and shoots by 20 to 90%. GST activity in all genotypes was greater with CDNB, followed by pretilachlor, and then fenclorim. GST(CDNB) and GST(pretilachlor) activities were greater in Lemont, followed by Koshihikari, and then Teqing. In contrast, GST(fenclorim) activity was greater in Koshihikari and least in Lemont. FPLC elution patterns (MonoQ column) of partially purified GST extracts from untreated and fenclorim-treated seedlings of the three rice genotypes revealed the presence of multiple GST activities. Teqing shoots had six GST activity peaks with fenclorim. Four of them were also active with CDNB and pretilachlor. Koshihikari shoots had six GST activity peaks with pretilachlor. Five of them were also active with fenclorim, but only three were active with CDNB. Lemont shoots exhibited three GST activity peaks with fenclorim, five with CDNB, and seven with pretilachlor. Multiple GST activity peaks using CDNB and pretilachlor as substrates were also present in the roots of Teqing, Koshihikari, and Lemont seedlings. Fenclorim increased the activity of GST peaks conjugating pretilachlor and CDNB more than those active with fenclorim. Induction of GST peaks was more evident in Lemont, followed by Koshihikari, and then Teqing. The differential patterns of GST peaks active toward pretilachlor show that rice japonica lines may be more tolerant to pretilachlor than indica lines.
Abstract In order to evaluate the gill glutathione S -transferase (GST) activity as a biomarker of effect of fungicide exposure in juvenile brown trout ( Salmo trutta ), the fungicides propiconazole {(R,S)-1-[2-(2,4-diclophenyl)-4-propyl-1,3-dioolan-2-ylmetyl]-1H-1,2,4-triazole} and fenpropimorph {(±)- cis -4-[3-(4- tert -butylphenyl)-2-metyl propyl]-2,6 dimetylmorfolinc} were administrated in the water separately and together in a static system (80 μg/l for each pesticide) for 5 days. The combined fungicides gave a significant decrease in gill GST activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), whilst hepatic GST-activity was not significantly changed. Furthermore, continuous exposure to 540 ug/l thiabendazole{ 2-(thiazol-4′-yl)benzimidazole} in a flow-through system for 4 days significantly increased the gill glutathione S -transferase (GST) activity towards CDNB, whilst hepatic GST and cytochrome P450 (CYP 1A) activities were not increased by the treatment.
Abstract The effect of spironolactone pretreatment on glutathione S-transferase activity and on the relative content of the principal subunits (Ya, Yc, Yb1, Yb2 and Yp or 1, 2, 3, 4 and 7 respectively) was studied in rat liver, jejunum and colon. Male Wistar rats were injected with spironolactone i.p. at daily doses of 50, 100 and 200 μmol kg body wt for 3 consecutive days. Glutathione S-transferase activities were assayed using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate. Changes in subunit composition were evaluated by Western blot analysis in rats treated with the highest dose of spironolactone. The results demonstrated a dose-dependent increase in enzyme activity in liver, while in jejunum the three tested doses exhibited the same magnitude of induction. No significant difference in glutathione S-transferase activity was observed between control and treated rats for the colon. Immunoblot analysis revealed more Ya and Yp protein in liver (140 and 118 % increase respectively) and jejunum (45 and 145 % increase respectively) from treated rats. While Ya and Yp relative contents were similar in jejunum, the latter subunit slightly contributed to total GST in liver, even in SL-treated animals. The inducer produced no change in subunit composition in colon. In conclusion, spironolactone was able to increase glutathione S-transferase activity mainly by induction of Ya subunit in liver and Yp subunit in jejunal mucosa, without affecting colonic enzyme.
The in vitro interaction of the three aminobenzenesulfonic acids sulfanilic-, metanilic- and orthanilic acid, and their N-acetylated derivatives with rat liver glutathione S-transferase (GST) was studied. All inhibited the enzymatic conjugation of 1-chloro-2, 4-dinitro-benzene with glutathione. The sulfonate group and the benzene ring are molecular parts required for this inhibition. Each of the GST isoenzymes (AA, A, B, C, E and M) was inhibited, albeit at different degrees. Kinetic studies always revealed a mixed type function inhibition, towards glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as well. Conjugates of the six investigated compounds with glutathione were not formed. The results indicate that the aminobenzenesulfonic acids and their N-acetylates interact with GST by direct binding to this protein. It is suggested that the binding to GST of these compounds, from which several are metabolites of colors used in human food, could have a protective function against these dyes.
Exploring the vicinity around a locus of a protein in sequence space may identify homologs with enhanced properties, which could become valuable in biotechnical and other applications. A rational approach to this pursuit is the use of 'infologs', i.e. synthetic sequences with specific substitutions capturing maximal sequence information derived from the evolutionary history of the protein family. Ninety-five such infolog genes of poplar glutathione transferase were synthesized and expressed in Escherichia coli, and the catalytic activities of the proteins determined with alternative substrates. Sequence-activity relationships derived from the infologs were used to design a second set of 47 infologs in which 90% of the members exceeded wild-type properties. Two mutants, C2 (V55I/E95D/D108E/A160V) and G5 (F13L/C70A/G122E), were further functionally characterized. The activities of the infologs with the alternative substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and phenethyl isothiocyanate, subject to different chemistries, were positively correlated, indicating that the examined mutations were affecting the overall catalytic competence without major shift in substrate discrimination. By contrast, the enhanced protein expressivity observed in many of the mutants were not similarly correlated with the activities. In conclusion, small libraries of well-defined infologs can be used to systematically explore sequence space to optimize proteins in multidimensional functional space.
Activation of glutathione transferase activity in rat liver microsomes under a variety of conditions producing oxidative stress was investigated. Neither hydrogen peroxide (10 mM) (added or produced endogenously by glucose + glucose oxidase) nor duroquinone together with an NADPH-regenerating system (which generates the superoxide anion radical) had any significant effect on the glutathione transferase activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. On the other hand, incubation of microsomes with 1 mM noradrenaline (which autooxidizes and generates superoxide anion radical) gave a 160% activation, as shown earlier (Aniya and Anders, J Biol Chem 264: 1998-2002, 1989). This was taken as an indication that microsomal glutathione transferase could be activated by oxidative stress. Here, we demonstrate that activation by this compound is due to covalent binding (presumably of the quinone formed during autooxidation). The xanthine/xanthine oxidase system, which generates the superoxide anion radical and hydrogen peroxide, increases microsomal glutathione transferase activity, but this activation was not dependent on the presence of xanthine. Western blots of microsomes treated with xanthine oxidase revealed that activation was due to proteolysis (presumably by contaminating proteases in the xanthine oxidase). In conclusion, there is no firm evidence that rat liver microsomal glutathione transferase is activated directly by reduced oxygen species in the microsomal system. The possibility remains that oxidative stress triggers secondary mechanisms such as generation of reactive intermediates and/or activation of proteolysis, which can in turn increase enzyme activity.
Herbicide safeners increase herbicide tolerance in cereals but not in dicotyledenous crops. The reason(s) for this difference in safening is unknown. However, safener-induced protection in cereals is associated with increased expression of herbicide detoxifying enzymes, including glutathione S-transferases (GSTs). Treatment of Arabidopsis seedlings growing in liquid medium with various safeners similarly resulted in enhanced GST activities toward a range of xenobiotics with benoxacor, fenclorim, and fluxofenim being the most effective. Safeners also increased the tripeptide glutathione content of Arabidopsis seedlings. However, treatment of Arabidopsis plants with safeners had no effect on the tolerance of seedlings to chloroacetanilide herbicides. Each safener produced a distinct profile of enhanced GST activity toward different substrates suggesting a differential induction of distinct isoenzymes. This was confirmed by analysis of affinity-purified GST subunits by two-dimensional sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. AtGSTU19, a tau class GST, was identified as a dominant polypeptide in all samples. When AtGSTU19 was expressed in Escherichia coli, the recombinant enzyme was highly active toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, as well as chloroacetanilide herbicides. Immunoblot analysis confirmed that AtGSTU19 was induced in response to several safeners. Differential induction of tau GSTs, as well as members of the phi and theta classes by safeners, was demonstrated by RNA-blot analysis. These results indicate that, although Arabidopsis may not be protected from herbicide injury by safeners, at least one component of their detoxification systems is responsive to these compounds.
Experiments were conducted to determine whether the increased glutathione S-transferase (GSH-T) activity associated with selenium (Se) deficiency is necessarily related to losses in the activity of Se-dependent glutathione peroxidase (SeGSHpx) in chicks. Nutritional Se status was altered in two ways: by treatment with an antagonist of Se utilization, aurothioglucose (AuTG), and by feeding diets containing excess Se. Chicks given AuTG (10-30 mg AU/kg, sc) had growth rates and hepatic GSH concentrations that were comparable to those of saline-treated controls; however, their plasma GSH levels exceeded those of either Se-deficient (6-fold) or -adequate (3-fold) saline-treated chicks. Hepatic SeGSHpx activities of AuTG-treated chicks were half those of controls under conditions of Se-adequacy; however, this effect was not detected when Se was deficient. Hepatic GSH-TCDNB (assayed with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene) activities of AuTG-treated chicks were significantly greater than those of controls when Se was deficient (i.e., when SeGSHpx activity was 12% of the Se-adequate level); however, deprivation of Se did not affect GSH-TCDNB activity in the absence of AuTG. Chicks fed excess Se (6-20 ppm as Na2SeO3) in diets containing either low (2 IU/kg) or adequate (100 IU/kg) VE, showed hepatic GSH-TCDNB activities and GSH concentrations greater than those of Se-adequate (0.2 ppm Se) chicks by 100% and 40%, respectively. That increased hepatic GSH-TCDNB activity can occur because of either AuTG or excess Se status under conditions wherein SeGSHpx activity is not affected indicates that the transferase response is not directly related to changes in the peroxidase.
The conjugation of 4-nitroquinoline 1-oxide with GSH by human, rat and mouse liver cytosols, by purified mouse GSH transferases and by extrahepatic organ cytosols of male and female mice was investigated. 4-Nitroquinoline 1-oxide was as effectively conjugated by human liver cytosol as was 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, at a substrate concentration of 0.1 mM. Mouse isoenzymes composed of Yb1 and Yf subunits exhibited high activity towards 4-nitroquinoline 1-oxide. Human, rat and mouse hepatic activities towards this substrate correlated with the hepatic isoenzyme compositions.
1. The acute combined effects of cadmium (Cd) and nickel (Ni) on rat hepatic glutathione S-transferase (GST) activities toward the substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB) and ethacrynic acid (EAA) were determined and compared to those of Cd or Ni alone. 2. Male adult rats (225-275 g) were administered either a single dose of Cd (3.58 mg CdCl2.H2O/kg, i.p.) 72 hr prior to sacrifice or a single dose of Ni (59.5 mg NiCl2.6H2O/kg, s.c.) 16 hr prior to sacrifice. For the combined treatment, animals received the single dose of Ni 56 hr after the single dose of Cd and they were killed 16 hr later. 3. Cd treatment alone did not produce any changes in the hepatic GST activities toward the substrates studied. 4. Ni treatment alone, however, significantly increased hepatic GST activity toward EAA whereas it was ineffective on GST activities for CDNB and DCNB. 5. Combined treatment of metals did not alter hepatic GST activities toward the substrates CDNB and DCNB. Hepatic GST activity for EAA, however, was significantly increased by the combined treatment. Nevertheless, the combined treatment did not augment the increase in GST activity for EAA noted by Ni treatment alone.
Abstract The subcellular distribution of glutathione S -transferase (GST) activity extracted from roots and shoots of 3-day-old etiolated seedlings of rice ( Oryza sativa L., cv. Lemont) and the induction of soluble and microsomal GST activity by the safener fenclorim were investigated. Fenclorim increases the tolerance of rice to the herbicide pretilachlor. Bioassays using etiolated rice seedlings grown either in 0.3% agar or in liquid media containing pretilachlor showed that this chloroacetanilide herbicide is a strong inhibitor of rice root growth ( I 50 = 0.15 μ M ). The protective action of fenclorim seems to result from an enhancement of the metabolic detoxification of pretilachlor rather than an alteration of the uptake or translocation of pretilachlor by safened rice seedlings. The formation of the glutathione conjugate of pretilachlor in roots and shoots of safened rice seedlings was enhanced by 50 and 25%, respectively. GST activity extracted from rice shoots and roots was found in both soluble and membrane-bound (microsomes) fractions and utilized 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), pretilachlor, metolachlor, and trans -cinnamic acid as substrates. Soluble GST activity extracted from rice tissues was greater than microsomal regardless of the substrate used. Pretreatment with fenclorim (1 μ M ) induced soluble GST activity extracted from rice roots and shoots in the following order of substrate specificity: CDNB > pretilachlor > metolachlor > cinnamic acid. The fenclorim-mediated induction of root soluble GST pretilachlor activity matched the increased formation of the pretilachlor–glutathione conjugate in roots of fenclorim-safened rice seedlings. Fenlclorim was not as effective in inducing microsomal GST activity in roots or shoots of rice seedlings regardless of the substrate used. These results suggest that rice plants may contain multiple GST isozymes that differ in their substrate specificity and inducibility by safeners.
Trypanothione is a thiol unique to the Kinetoplastida and has been shown to be a vital component of their antioxidant defenses. However, little is known as to the role of trypanothione in xenobiotic metabolism. A trypanothione S-transferase activity was detected in extracts of Leishmania major, L. infantum, L. tarentolae, Trypanosoma brucei, and Crithidia fasciculata, but not Trypanosoma cruzi. No glutathione S-transferase activity was detected in any of these parasites. Trypanothione S-transferase was purified from C. fasciculata and shown to be a hexadecameric complex of three subunits with a relative molecular weight of 650,000. This enzyme complex was specific for the thiols trypanothione and glutathionylspermidine and only used 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene from a range of glutathione S-transferase substrates. Peptide sequencing revealed that the three components were the alpha, beta, and gamma subunits of ribosomal eukaryotic elongation factor 1B (eEF1B). Partial dissociation of the complex suggested that the S-transferase activity was associated with the gamma subunit. Moreover, Cibacron blue was found to be a tight binding inhibitor and reactive blue 4 an irreversible time-dependent inhibitor that covalently modified only the gamma subunit. The rate of inactivation by reactive blue 4 was increased more than 600-fold in the presence of trypanothione, and Cibacron blue protected the enzyme from inactivation by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, confirming that these dyes interact with the active site region. Two eEF1Bgamma genes were cloned from C. fasciculata, but recombinant C. fasciculata eEF1Bgamma had no S-transferase activity, suggesting that eEF1Bgamma is unstable in the absence of the other subunits.
Cancer cells showing low apoptotic effects following oxidative stress-induced DNA damage are mainly affected by growth arrest. Thus, recent studies focus on improving anti-cancer therapies by increasing apoptosis sensitivity. We aimed at identifying a universal molecule as potential target to enhance oxidative stress-based anti-cancer therapy through a switch from cell cycle arrest to apoptosis. A cDNA microarray was performed with hydrogen peroxide-treated oesophageal squamous epithelial cancer cells TE7. This cell line showed checkpoint activation via p21WAF1 , but low apoptotic response following DNA damage. The potential target molecule was chosen depended on the following demands: it should regulate DNA damage response, cell cycle and apoptosis. As the transcription factor ATF2 is implicated in all these processes, we focused on this protein. We investigated checkpoint activation via ATF2. Indeed, ATF2 knockdown revealed ATF2-triggered p21 WAF1 protein expression, suggesting p21 WAF1 transactivation through ATF2. Using chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP), we identified a hitherto unknown ATF2-binding sequence in the p21 WAF1 promoter. p-ATF2 was found to interact with p-c-Jun, creating the AP-1 complex. Moreover, ATF2 knockdown led to c-Jun downregulation. This suggests ATF2-driven induction of c-Jun expression, thereby enhancing ATF2 transcriptional activity via c-Jun-ATF2 heterodimerization. Notably, downregulation of ATF2 caused a switch from cell cycle arrest to reinforced apoptosis, presumably via p21WAF1 downregulation, confirming the importance of ATF2 in the establishment of cell cycle arrest. 1-Chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene also led to ATF2-dependent G2/M arrest, suggesting that this is a general feature induced by oxidative stress. As ATF2 knockdown also increased apoptosis, we propose ATF2 as a target for combined oxidative stress-based anti-cancer therapies.
The common fold shared by members of the glutathione-transferase (GST) family has a topologically conserved isoleucine residue at the N-terminus of helix 3 which is involved in the packing of helix 3 against two β-strands in domain 1. The role of the isoleucine residue in the structure, function and stability of GST was investigated by replacing the Ile71 residue in human GSTA1-1 by alanine or valine. The X-ray structures of the I71A and I71V mutants resolved at 1.75 and 2.51 A, respectively, revealed that the mutations do not alter the overall structure of the protein compared with the wild type. Urea-induced equilibrium unfolding studies using circular dichroism and tryptophan fluorescence suggest that the mutation of Ile71 to alanine or valine reduces the stability of the protein. A functional assay with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene shows that the mutation does not significantly alter the function of the protein relative to the wild type. Overall, the results suggest that conservation of the topologically conserved Ile71 maintains the structural stability of the protein but does not play a significant role in catalysis and substrate binding.
Glutathione is an important thiol-containing compound involved in the detoxification process in erythrocytes. Its thiol group reacts with a variety of xenobiotics in a glutathione S-transferase catalyzed reaction to form conjugates that are effluxed from the erythrocytes by an ATP dependent transport mechanism. A well studied experimental system is the transport of the conjugate of glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. We investigated whether N-acetyl-L-cysteine protects the free-SH content and restores 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene detoxification in erythrocytes or replaces glutathione in detoxification process in glutathione predepleted erythrocytes. Our results indicate that N-acetyl-L-cysteine restores the intracellular free-SH content following depletion by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and N-ethylmaleimide. N-acetyl-L-cysteine (10 mM) increased the intraerythrocyte free-SH level to 14 - 1 µmol/ml erythrocytes in 10 min in erythrocytes treated with N-ethylmaleimide. The control level was 5 - 0.1 µmol/ml RBC. Results showed that N-acetyl-L-cysteine, in the presence and absence of L-buthioninesulfoximine, significantly recovered the 1-cloro- 2,4-dinitrobenzene detoxification process in erythrocytes. The rate of conjugate transport in glutathione predepleted and N-acetyl- L-cysteine treated erythrocytes was 449 - 38 nmol/ml erythrocytes. In the absence of N-acetyl-L-cysteine the rate of transport was 214 - 21 nmol/ml erythrocytes which remained similar to the control. Our results suggest that N-acetyl-L-cysteine recovers the dinitrophenyl-glutathione transport and also replaces glutathione in the detoxification of 1-cloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in glutathione predepleted erythrocytes.
Exploring the vicinity around a locus of a protein in sequence space may identify homologs with enhanced properties, which could become valuable in biotechnical and other applications. A rational approach to this pursuit is the use of 'infologs', i.e. synthetic sequences with specific substitutions capturing maximal sequence information derived from the evolutionary history of the protein family. Ninety-five such infolog genes of poplar glutathione transferase were synthesized and expressed in Escherichia coli, and the catalytic activities of the proteins determined with alternative substrates. Sequence-activity relationships derived from the infologs were used to design a second set of 47 infologs in which 90% of the members exceeded wild-type properties. Two mutants, C2 (V55I/E95D/ D108E/A160V) and G5 (F13L/C70A/G122E), were further functionally characterized. The activities of the infologs with the alternative substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and phenethyl isothiocyanate, subject to different chemistries, were positively correlated, indicating that the examined mutations were affecting the overall catalytic competence without major shift in substrate discrimination. By contrast, the enhanced protein expressivity observed in many of the mutants were not similarly correlated with the activities. In conclusion, small libraries of well-defined infologs can be used to systematically explore sequence space to optimize proteins in multidimensional functional space.
A recent study of tau class GSTU45 from poplar (Populus trichocarpa), which was of interest as an enzyme inducible by 2,4,6-trinitrotoluene (TNT), demonstrated that the enzyme had minimal activity with 16 alternative substrates, including TNT, and only modest activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), the standard GST substrate (Musdal and Mannervik, 2015) . Considering its structural similarity to homologous GSTs displaying higher activity it was of interest to find out if the functions of GSTU45 could be enhanced, in support of the evolutionary principle that modest mutagenesis could yield proteins with novel and useful properties. In the present investigation GSTU45 was therefore subjected to protein engineering based on the infolog approach. The enzyme activity was primarily monitored by CDNB and phenethyl isothiocyanate (PEITC), the latter substrate being a natural product serving as an effective substrate for many GSTs (Zhang et al., 2015) . In addition, the catalytic function with TNT, structurally similar to CDNB, was tested. Two of the secondgeneration mutants with enhanced functions were characterized and found to have elevated activities with additional substrates.
Herbicide safeners increase herbicide tolerance in cereals but not in dicotyledenous crops. The reason(s) for this difference in safening is unknown. However, safener-induced protection in cereals is associated with increased expression of herbicide detoxifying enzymes, including glutathione S-transferases (GSTs). Treatment of Arabidopsis seedlings growing in liquid medium with various safeners similarly resulted in enhanced GST activities toward a range of xenobiotics with benoxacor, fenclorim, and fluxofenim being the most effective. Safeners also increased the tripeptide glutathione content of Arabidopsis seedlings. However, treatment of Arabidopsis plants with safeners had no effect on the tolerance of seedlings to chloroacetanilide herbicides. Each safener produced a distinct profile of enhanced GST activity toward different substrates suggesting a differential induction of distinct isoenzymes. This was confirmed by analysis of affinity-purified GST subunits by two-dimensional sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. AtGSTU19, a tau class GST, was identified as a dominant polypeptide in all samples. When AtGSTU19 was expressed in Escherichia coli, the recombinant enzyme was highly active toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, as well as chloroacetanilide herbicides. Immunoblot analysis confirmed that AtGSTU19 was induced in response to several safeners. Differential induction of tau GSTs, as well as members of the phi and theta classes by safeners, was demonstrated by RNA-blot analysis. These results indicate that, although Arabidopsis may not be protected from herbicide injury by safeners, at least one component of their detoxification systems is responsive to these compounds.
2, trypanothione and trypanothione disulphide, respectively; GSH and GSSG, glutathione and glutathione disulphide, respectively; GspdSH, glutathionylspermidine; CDNB, 1-Chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene; T[SDNB] 2 , trypanothione bis-dinitrobenzene; TCEP, tris(2-carboxyethyl)phosphine; BS 3 , bis(sulfosuccinimidyl)suberate; GST, glutathione S-transferase; TST, trypanothione S-transferase; eEF1A, eukaryotic elongation factor 1A (formerly eEF-1α); eEF1B, the eukaryotic elongation factor 1B complex (formerly eEF-1βγδ); eEF1Bα was formerly eEF-1β; eEF1Bβ was formerly eEF-1δ and eEF1Bγ was formerly eEF-1γ; ARS, amino-acyl tRNA synthetase; PCR, polymerase chain reaction. Trypanothione S-transferase was purified from C. fasciculata and shown to be a hexadecameric complex of three subunits with a relative molecular mass of 650,000. This enzyme complex was specific for the thiols trypanothione and glutathionylspermidine, and only used 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene from a range of glutathione S-transferases substrates. Peptide sequencing revealed that the three components were the alpha, beta and gamma subunits of ribosomal eukaryotic elongation factor 1B (eEF1B). Partial dissociation of the complex suggested that the S-transferase activity was associated with the gamma subunit. Moreover, Cibacron blue was found to be a tight-binding inhibitor and reactive blue 4 an irreversible time-dependent inhibitor that covalently modified only the gamma subunit. The rate of inactivation by reactive blue 4 was increased more than 600-fold in the presence of trypanothione and Cibacron blue protected the enzyme from inactivation by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, confirming that these dyes interact with the active site region. Two eEF1Bγ genes were cloned from C. fasciculata but recombinant C. fasciculata eEF1Bγ had no S-transferase activity, suggesting that eEF1Bγ is unstable in the absence of the other subunits.
Cancer cells showing low apoptotic effects following oxidative stress-induced DNA damage are mainly affected by growth arrest. Thus, recent studies focus on improving anti-cancer therapies by increasing apoptosis sensitivity. We aimed at identifying a universal molecule as potential target to enhance oxidative stress-based anti-cancer therapy through a switch from cell cycle arrest to apoptosis. A cDNA microarray was performed with hydrogen peroxide-treated oesophageal squamous epithelial cancer cells TE7. This cell line showed checkpoint activation via p21 WAF1 , but low apoptotic response following DNA damage. The potential target molecule was chosen depended on the following demands: it should regulate DNA damage response, cell cycle and apoptosis. As the transcription factor ATF2 is implicated in all these processes, we focused on this protein. We investigated checkpoint activation via ATF2. Indeed, ATF2 knockdown revealed ATF2-triggered p21 WAF1 protein expression, suggesting p21 WAF1 transactivation through ATF2. Using chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP), we identified a hitherto unknown ATF2-binding sequence in the p21 WAF1 promoter. p-ATF2 was found to interact with p-c-Jun, creating the AP-1 complex. Moreover, ATF2 knockdown led to c-Jun downregulation. This suggests ATF2-driven induction of c-Jun expression, thereby enhancing ATF2 transcriptional activity via c-Jun-ATF2 heterodimerization. Notably, downregulation of ATF2 caused a switch from cell cycle arrest to reinforced apoptosis, presumably via p21 WAF1 downregulation, confirming the importance of ATF2 in the establishment of cell cycle arrest. 1-Chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene also led to ATF2-dependent G2/M arrest, suggesting that this is a general feature induced by oxidative stress. As ATF2 knockdown also increased apoptosis, we propose ATF2 as a target for combined oxidative stress-based anti-cancer therapies.
The common fold shared by members of the glutathione-transferase (GST) family has a topologically conserved isoleucine residue at the N-terminus of helix 3 which is involved in the packing of helix 3 against two -strands in domain 1. The role of the isoleucine residue in the structure, function and stability of GST was investigated by replacing the Ile71 residue in human GSTA1-1 by alanine or valine. The X-ray structures of the I71A and I71V mutants resolved at 1.75 and 2.51 Å , respectively, revealed that the mutations do not alter the overall structure of the protein compared with the wild type. Ureainduced equilibrium unfolding studies using circular dichroism and tryptophan fluorescence suggest that the mutation of Ile71 to alanine or valine reduces the stability of the protein. A functional assay with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene shows that the mutation does not significantly alter the function of the protein relative to the wild type. Overall, the results suggest that conservation of the topologically conserved Ile71 maintains the structural stability of the protein but does not play a significant role in catalysis and substrate binding.
The activities of several representative biotransformation enzymes were determined in male and female spiny mouse tissues. Cytochrome P450 monooxygenase activity toward benzo(a)pyrene was significantly greater in female spiny mouse intestine than in males. Activity toward benzphetamine in both sexes was high in the liver, with little activity in the kidney and intestine. Sulfotransferase activity was high in kidney and intestine of female spiny mice but undetectable in the same tissues in males. Hepatic glutathione S-transferase activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in females was significantly higher than in males. UDP-Glucuronosyltransferase activity toward 1-naphthol in both sexes in the kidney was significantly higher than hepatic and intestinal activity. Intestinal N-acetyltransferase activity towards 2-aminofluorene and beta-naphthylamine was significantly greater in females than males. No consistent relation appeared to exist between biotransformation activities in spiny mouse and those in other related rodent species.
The basic glutathione S-transferases in human liver are composed of at least two immunochemically distinct polypeptides, designated B1 and B2. These subunits exist as homodimers, but can hybridize to form the B1B2 heterodimer [Stockman, Beckett & Hayes (1985) Biochem. J. 227, 457-465]. Although these basic glutathione S-transferases possess similar catalytic properties, the B2 subunit exhibits significantly greater selenium-independent glutathione peroxidase activity than subunit B1. The use of the ligands haematin, tributyltin acetate and Bromosulphophthalein as inhibitors of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene-GSH-conjugating activity clearly discriminate between the B1 and B2 subunits and should help facilitate their identification. Peptide mapping experiments showed that B1 and B2 are structurally distinct, but related, subunits; subunit B1 yielded 43 tryptic peptides, seven of which were unique, whereas subunit B2 yielded 40 tryptic peptides, four of which were unique.
In order to explore the protective function of human glutathione S-transferase pi (GST-pi) in vitro and in vivo, transfected NIH 3T3 clones were examined in cytotoxicity assays using the carcinogen (+/-)anti-benzo(a)pyrene 7,8-diol-9,10-epoxide (BPDE) or inoculated into nude mice and treated with the carcinogen benzo(a)pyrene (BP) to induce tumor formation. The human GST-pi cDNA under the control of the murine alpha 2(I)collagen promoter was transfected into NIH 3T3 cells and G418 resistant clones were analyzed by Southern, northern, western, and two-dimensional analysis. Clone A2 stably expressed human GST-pi and has 2.5-fold greater activity toward the substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and a 1.7-fold increase in LD50 for BPDE in vitro when compared to control-transfected clone G3. This increase in protection, however, did not prevent the formation of BP-induced tumors in vivo.
Anthocyanin (Acy) contents and GST activities of bilberry (Vaccinium myrtillus L.) were investigated in two experiments conducted in June (Exp. I: active growth) and in August–September (Exp. II: beginning of frost hardening) in Northern Finland (65°N). Bilberry plants were subjected to +2°C and +18°C in Exp. I or +5/0°C (day/night) and +18/+13°C (day/night) in Exp. II. GST activities were assessed using either 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) or trans-cinnamic acid (tCA) as substrates. We found temperature to have no effect on Acy during either active growth or frost hardening. Acy increased several-fold from active growth to the beginning of frost hardening, but no increment was observed during the development of frost hardening. This suggests a role of Acy in photoprotection at low temperatures rather than their direct involvement in the development of freezing tolerance. The lack of response of GST activity to frost hardening and to temperature in autumn may indicate an indirect role of GSTs in frost hardening as protective enzymes. GST activity was the same with the two substrates studied (CDNB, tCA), supporting the assumption that GSTs could catalyze reactions with endogenous phenylpropanoids.
Electrophilic compounds are ubiquitous in the environment and aquatic life is inevitably affected. Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are a class of enzymes that facilitate the detoxification of these electrophiles in phase II metabolism. In this study, cytosolic GSTs were isolated and characterized from striped bass liver (Morone saxitilis). Nanospray liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) was used to elucidate peptide sequences, and the proteins were found to have homology to rho and alpha by searching against the NCBI non-redundant database (nrDB). Catalytic activities of the cytosolic GSTs towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) were determined to be 141+/-34 and 155+/-65nmol/min/mg for males and females, respectively (both n=3). However, sex differences in classes expressed and activity toward CDNB were not statistically significant (p>0.05).
Glutathione S-transferase pi (GSTP1) is a crucial enzyme in detoxification of electrophilic compounds and organic peroxides. Together with Se-dependent glutathione peroxidase (Se-GSHPx) it protects cells against oxidative stress which may be a primary factor implicated in motor neuron disease (MND) pathogenesis. We investigated GSTP1 polymorphisms and their relationship with GST and Se-GSTPx activities in a cohort of Polish patients with MND. Results were correlated with clinical phenotypes. The frequency of genetic variants for GSTP1 exon 5 (I105V) and exon 6 (A114V) was studied in 104 patients and 100 healthy controls using real-time polymerase chain reaction. GST transferase activity was determined in serum with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, its peroxidase activity with cumene hydroperoxide, and Se-GSHPx activity with hydrogen peroxide. There were no differences in the prevalence of GSTP1 polymorphism I105V and A114V between MND and controls, however the occurrence of CT variant in codon 114 was associated with a higher risk for MND. GSTP1 polymorphisms were less frequent in classic ALS than in progressive bulbar palsy. In classic ALS C* (heterozygous I /V and A /V) all studied activities were significantly lower than in classic ALS A* (homozygous I /I and A/A). GST peroxidase activity and Se-GSHPx activity were lower in classic ALS C* than in control C*, but in classic ALS A* Se-GSHPx activity was significantly higher than in control A*. It can be concluded that the presence of GSTP1 A114V but not I105V variant increases the risk of MND, and combined GSTP1 polymorphisms in codon 105 and 114 may result in lower protection of MND patients against the toxicity of electrophilic compounds, organic and inorganic hydroperoxides.
Bivoltine strain of Bombyx mori produces diapause and non-diapause eggs when embryogenesis of the parental eggs was induced at 25℃ and 15℃,respectively.Meanwhile,diapause status can be prevented and terminated by immediate hydrochloric acid treatment and low temperature treatment around 5℃,respectively.In this study,effects of the above treatments on activity of glutathione S-transferase(GST,EC 2.5.1.18) in eggs during diapause process was determined by using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene(CDNB) as the color displaying agent.It was discovered that,when eggs at their late embryonic stage were incubated at 25℃,the eggs' GST activity was significantly higher than that incubated at 15℃.GST activity in eggs was not significantly changed by immediate hydrochloric acid treatment at the diapause initiation phase.During the 5℃ chilling,activity of GST in diapause eggs was significantly enhanced while that in diapause eggs with immediate hydrochloric acid treatment was not changed significantly.The above results suggest that variation of GST activity in eggs is closely related to embryonic diapause induction and termination in bivoltine strain of Bombyx mori.
Yields of the expected nitro products from 1-chloro-4-nitrobenzene and 1,3-dichloro-2-nitrobenzene nitrated at 25 °C in sulphuric acid or oleum containing 1 mol dm–3 nitric acid were quantitative. The rate profile for nitration of 1,3-dichloro-2-nitrobenzene is normal, but sulphonation is a competing process when the concentration of nitric acid is low. Kinetics of nitration of 1,3-dinitrobenzene at 150 °C are reported; yields of 1,3,5-trinitrobenzene, the only detected aromatic product, are low. The title chlorodinitrobenzenes each give, on nitration at 130 °C, a dichlorodinitrobenzene as well as a chlorotrinitrobenzene. The kinetics and yields of the two products from 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene under a variety of conditions are reported and discussed in relation to a previously proposed mechanism.
Nucleophilic attack of tert-butyl/phenylpyridines 3 on 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene 4 results in the formation of tert-butyl/phenyl substituted 2,4-dinitrophenylpyridinium chlorides 5. Benzoyl hydrazide and pyridyl acid hydrazides 6 were reacted with the pyridinium chlorides 5 furnishing the 2,4-dinitroanilino derivatives 7, which were subsequently hydrolyzed with water: p-dioxane to yield N-[pyridyl(phenyl)carbonylimino]-tert-butyl/phenylpyridinium ylides 8. The title compounds 9, N-[pyridyl(phenyl)carbonylamino]-tert-butyl/phenyl-1,2,3,6- tetrahydropyridines, were obtained by sodium borohydride reduction of the pyridinium ylides 8. The anti-inflammatory activities of compounds 9a-p were determined using the carrageenan-soaked sponge model of inflammation in Sprague Dawley rats. All compounds tested showed moderate to good anti-inflammatory effects compared to indomethacin. Compounds 9b, 9c and 9p were the most active analogs of the group in this model.
Helix 9, the major structural element in the C-terminal region of class Alpha glutathione transferases, forms part of the active site of these enzymes where its dynamic properties modulate both catalytic and ligandin functions. A conserved aspartic acid N-capping motif for helix 9 was identified by sequence alignments of the C-terminal regions of class Alpha glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) and an analysis by the helix-coil algorithm AGADIR. The contribution of the N-capping motif to the stability and dynamics of the region was investigated by replacing the N-cap residue Asp-209 with a glycine in human glutathione S-transferase A1-1 (hGST A1-1) and in a peptide corresponding to its C-terminal region. Far-UV circular dichroism and AGADIR analyses indicate that, in the absence of tertiary interactions, the wild-type peptide displays a low intrinsic tendency to form a helix and that this tendency is reduced significantly by the Asp-to-Gly mutation. Disruption of the N-capping motif of helix 9 in hGST A1-1 alters the conformational dynamics of the C-terminal region and, consequently, the features of the H-site to which hydrophobic substrates (e.g. 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB)) and nonsubstrates (e.g. 8-anilino-1-naphthalene sulfonate (ANS)) bind. Isothermal calorimetric and fluorescence data for complex formation between ANS and protein suggest that the D209G-induced perturbation in the C-terminal region prevents normal ligand-induced localization of the region at the active site, resulting in a less hydrophobic and more solvent-exposed H-site. Therefore, the catalytic efficiency of the enzyme with CDNB is diminished due to a lowered affinity for the electrophilic substrate and a lower stabilization of the transition state.
Summary Glutathione S-transferase (GST) isoenzyme composition, isoenzyme quantities and enzymatic activity were investigated in benign (n = 4) ovarian tumours and malignant ovarian tumours, before (n = 20) and after (n = 16) chemotherapy. Enzymatic activity of GST in cytosols was measured by determining 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene conjugation with glutathione, cytosolic GST subunits were determined by wide pore reversed phase HPLC, using a S-hexylglutathione-agarose affinity column, and isoelectric focussing. Both GST activity and GST pi amount were not related to histopathologic type, differentiation grade, or tumour volume index in untreated malignant tumours. GST isoenzyme patterns were identical in benign tumours and malignant tumours before and after platinum/cyclophosphamide chemotherapy, while GST pi was the predominant transferase. Mean GST activity and GST pi amount were decreased (P < 0.05) in malignant ovarian tumours after platinum/cyclophosphamide chemotherapy compared to untreated ovarian malignant tumours. No relation was found in untreated ovarian tumours between GST pi amount and response to platinum/cyclophosphamide chemotherapy. Thus, within the limitations of the current study no arguments were found for a role of GST in in vivo drug resistance of malignant ovarian tumours to platinum/ cyclophosphamide chemotherapy.
A number of active site mutants of human Alpha class glutathione transferase A1-1 (hGST A1-1) were made and characterized to determine the structural determinants for alkenal activity. The choice of mutations was based on primary structure alignments of hGST A1-1 and the Alpha class enzyme with the highest alkenal activity, hGST A4-4, from three different species and crystal structure comparisons between the human enzymes. The result was an enzyme with a 3000-fold change in substrate specificity for nonenal over 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB).The C-terminus of the Alpha class enzymes is an α-helix that folds over the active site upon substrate binding. The rate-determining step is product release, which is influenced by the movements of the C-terminus, thereby opening the active site. Phenylalanine 220, near the end of the C-terminus, forms an aromatic cluster with tyrosine 9 and phenylalanine 10, positioning the β-carbon of the cysteinyl moiety of glutathione. The effects of phenylalanine 220 mutations on the mobility of the C-terminus were studied by the viscosity dependence of kcat and kcat/Km with glutathione and CDNB as the varied substrates. The compatibility of slightly different subunit interfaces within the Alpha class has been studied by heterodimerization between monomers from hGST A1-1 and hGST A4-4. The heterodimer was temperature sensitive, and rehybridized into homodimers at 40 ˚C. The heterodimers did not show strictly additive activities with alkenals and CDNB. This result combined with further studies indicates that there are factors at the subunit interface influencing the catalytic properties of hGST A1-1.
We have detected glutathione transferase (GST) activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and benzo[a]-pyrene 4,5-oxide (BPO) in freshly isolated peripheral lymphocytes, phytohaemagglutinin (PHA)-stimulated lymphocytes, interleukin-2 (IL-2)-dependent T-cells and lymphoblastoid B-cell lines. The detection of conjugating activity with BPO implies the expression of a neutral, 'mu-like' GST form by both resting and cultured lymphocytes. In a sample of 12 unrelated individuals, BPO conjugating activity of freshly isolated lymphocytes showed a polymorphic distribution. In comparison with freshly isolated cells, BPO activity was increased 2- to 5-fold in IL-2-dependent T-cells and 4- to 10-fold in B-cell lines. The CDNB activity of T-cells was not significantly different to that of freshly isolated cells (P greater than 0.05) but activity in B-cell lines showed a significant increase (P less than 0.01). These data indicate that measurement of BPO activity in freshly isolated lymphocytes may allow the study of the human GST-mu polymorphism. However, IL-2-dependent culture of T-cells or viral immortalization of resting lymphocytes appears to cause the activation or induction of a GST form or forms which conjugate BPO efficiently. In the T-cells this effect may be mediated through addition of IL-2 to the culture since PHA treatment alone did not elevate activity.
Glutathione S-transferases from larvae of the Australian sheep blowfly, Lucilia cuprina, were purified using ammonium sulphate fractionation, DEAE-Sepharose chromatography and GSH-affinity chromatography. The transferases were separated into two fractions on a column of DEAE-Sepharose. Fraction I enzyme had a subunit molecular weight of 25,500, and was purified to apparent homogeneity; it was active towards 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and p-nitrobenzyl chloride, and had a pI of 7.0. On the other hand, fraction II enzyme was resolved on isoelectric focusing into a series of activity peaks between pH 4.6 and 5.2. This fraction showed substantial activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene only, and yielded, on SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, a single protein band corresponding to a subunit molecular weight of 24,500. Fraction I enzyme showed GSH peroxidase activity towards tert-butylhydroperoxide, whilst fraction II showed no activity with this substrate. Substrate kinetics on fraction I and II enzymes, and product inhibition studies using S-(2,4-dinitrophenyl)glutathione with fraction II enzyme were consistent with a random sequential mechanism. Both fraction I and II enzymes were present in larval fat body (including parts of the Malpighian tubules), while only fraction II enzyme was present in larval cuticle (with the muscles and central nervous system) and gut.
The eye lens crystallins of the octopus Octopus dofleini were identified by sequencing abundant proteins and cDNAs. As in squid, the octopus crystallins have subunit molecular masses of 25-30 kDa, are related to mammalian glutathione S-transferases (GST), and are encoded in at least six genes. The coding regions and deduced amino acid sequences of four octopus lens cDNAs are 75-80% identical, while their non-coding regions are entirely different. Deduced amino acid sequences show 52-57% similarity with squid GST-like crystallins, but only 20-25% similarity with mammalian GST. These data suggest that the octopus and squid lens GST-like crystallin gene families expanded after divergence of these species. Northern blot hybridization indicated that the four octopus GST-like crystallin genes examined are lens-specific. Lens extracts showed about 40 times less GST activity using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate than liver extracts of the octopus, indicating that the major GST-like crystallins are specialized for a lens structural role. A prominent 59-kDa crystallin polypeptide, previously observed in octopus but not squid and called omega-crystallin (Chiou, S.-H. (1988) FEBS Lett. 241, 261-264), has been identified as an aldehyde dehydrogenase. Since cytoplasmic aldehyde dehydrogenase is a major protein in elephant shrew lenses (eta-crystallin; Wistow, G., and Kim, H. (1991) J. Mol. Evol. 32, 262-269) the octopus aldehyde dehydrogenase crystallin provides the first example of a similar enzyme-crystallin in vertebrates and invertebrates. The use of detoxification stress proteins (GST and aldehyde dehydrogenase) as cephalopod crystallins indicates a common strategy for recruitment of enzyme-crystallins during the convergent evolution of vertebrate and invertebrate lenses. For historical reasons we propose that the octopus GST-like crystallins, like those of the squid, are called S-crystallins.
Abstract The murine α-class glutathioneS-transferase mGSTA4-4 displays a high catalytic activity with 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE), a cytotoxic product of lipid peroxidation. The X-ray crystal structure of mGSTA4-4 was used to design mutations targeting the 4-HNE binding site, with the goal of defining the structural elements of the mGSTA4-4 protein necessary for the high conjugative activity with 4-HNE. Two candidate positions, 107 and 108, were investigated. Of these, residue 108 appears to be significant in codetermining the catalytic properties of mGSTA4-4 toward 4-HNE. Systematic mutagenesis of amino acid 108 indicated that high activity toward 4-HNE is contingent on the presence of an aliphatic, hydrophobic side chain in this position. In particular, replacement of the wild-type V108 with leucine led to a more than fivefold increase in both absolute activity of the enzyme for 4-HNE and its selectivity for 4-HNE over the model substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, due to a selective increase of the turnover number for 4-HNE with no change in the affinity of the protein for this substrate and no changes in the kinetic parameters for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. In contrast, the A107L mutation decreased activity of the enzyme for both 4-HNE and CDNB and partially reversed the positive effect of the V108L mutation in a double mutant.
Abstract Affinity-purified cytosolic glutathione transferases from adult female rat liver, adult human liver and human term placenta were used. Of the 8 retinoids tested, all-trans retinoic acid was found to be the most potent inhibitor of placental glutathione transferase. The inhibition was non-competitive and exhibited Ki values of 20 and 41 μM for all-trans retinoic acid in the presence of varying concentrations of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and glutathione, respectively. Micromolar all-trans retinoic acid also caused significant (30–90%) inhibition of rat and human liver glutathione transferases. Taken together, the data suggest that inhibition of glutathione transferase(s) may represent yet another mechanism of retinoid action.
DDT-resistant Anopheles gambiae Giles from Zanzibar, Tanzania, had increased levels of DDT-dehydrochlorination compared to a DDT-susceptible strain. Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are responsible for conversion of DDT to DDE in both the susceptible and resistant strains. Sequential column chromatography, including Q-Sepharose, S-hexylglutathione agarose, hydroxylapatite and phenyl Sepharose, allowed the partial purification of seven GSTs. All seven GSTs possessed different degrees of DDTase activity. There was an eight-fold increase in total DDTase activity in the resistant compared to the susceptible enzymes. Characterization with three substrates, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB) and DDT, revealed the different substrate specificity for each isolated GST indicating different isoenzymes. GST Va possessed 60% of total DDTase activity suggesting that it contributed most to DDT-metabolism in this insect species. The DDTase activity of the GSTs in both strains of A. gambiae were found to be correlated with the GST activities toward DCNB. Preliminary studies on DDT-resistant and susceptible A. gambiae showed that both DDT-resistance and the increased levels of GST activity were stage specific which suggested that different GSTs may be involved in DDT-resistance in adults and larvae of A. gambiae .
The 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene + OH- reaction was studied in tetradecyltrimethylammonium bromide aqueous micellar solutions. Influence of changes in [surfactant] as well as in [NaOH] on the observed rate constant were rationalized by using pseudophase kinetic models. At high hydroxide ions concentration an additional pathway across the micellar boundary had to be considered.
Until recently the Theta-class glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) were largely overlooked due to their low activity with the model substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and their failure to bind to immobilized glutathione affinity matrices. Little is known about the number of genes in this class. Recently, Pemble et al. (Biochem J. 300: 271-276, 1994) reported the cDNA cloning of a human Theta-class GST, termed GSTT1. In this study, we describe the molecular cloning of a cDNA encoding a second human Theta-class GST (GSTT2) from a lambda gt11 human liver 5'-stretch cDNA library. The encoded protein contains 244 amino acids and has 78.3% sequence identity with the rat subunit 12 and only 55.0% identity with human GSTT1. GSTT2 has been mapped to chromosome 22 by somatic cell hybrid analysis. The precise position of the gene was localized to subband 22q11.2 by in situ hybridization. The absence of other regions of hybridization suggests that there are no closely related sequences (e.g., reverse transcribed pseudogenes) scattered throughout the genome and that if there are closely related genes, they must be clustered near GSTT2. Southern blot analysis of human DNA digested with BamHI shows that the size of the GSTT2 gene is relatively small, as the coding sequence falls within a 3.6-kb BamHI fragment.
Abstract The ability of cattle and deer liver to catalyse xenobiotic conjugation reactions was investigated and compared with that of the rat. Marked differences in the activity of these enzymes were noted between the domestic animals and rats. Hepatic microsomal epoxide hydrolase activity in cattle and deer, determined using benzo[ a ]pyrene 4,5-oxide as substrate, was nearly twice that of the rat. In contrast, glutathione S -transferase activity in hepatic cytosol, determined with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate, was significantly lower in the cattle and deer. When 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene served as the accepting substrate, no activity was detectable in the cattle and deer. Similarly, glutathione reductase activity and total glutathione levels were markedly lower in the cattle and deer compared with the rat. Cytosolic sulfotransferase activity, monitored using 2-naphthol as substrate, was higher in cattle compared with the rat. Finally, microsomal UDP-glucuronosyl transferase activity, determined using 1-napththol as substrate, did not differ significantly among the three species.
A major glutathione S-transferase form (pI 5.7) in rat testis (MT) purified by S-hexyl-glutathione affinity chromatography, followed by chromatofocusing, showed two polypeptide of pI 6.7 (Yn1) and 6.0 (Yn2), having apparently the same molecular mass of 26 kDa on two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. Rechromatofocusing of the MT preparation after 4 M guanidine hydrochloride treatment revealed two additional protein peaks (pI 6.2 and 5.4). These were identified as the two homodimers consisting of the subunits of MT, Yn1Yn1 and Yn2Yn2, respectively. Furthermore, MT could be reconstituted from Yn1Yn1 and Yn2Yn2. These results indicate that MT is a heterodimer, Yn1Yn2, consisting of subunits with very similar molecular masses but different isoelectric points. The Yn1Yn1 form had glutathione S-transferase activities towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene. However, the Yn2Yn2 form had no activity towards any of the substrates examined. N-terminal amino acid sequences of subunits Yn1 and Yn2 revealed differences at two positions in the first 20 residues; the amino acid compositions of these subunits were also similar but not identical, indicating that these two subunits are different in the primary structure. Subunits Yn1 and Yn2 are immunologically related to each other and also to subunits 3 (Yb1) and 4 (Yb2) but they are not identical. These four subunits also showed a high degree of similarity in N-terminal amino acid sequences. Subunits Yn1 and Yn2 seem to belong to the rat GST 3-4 family or class mu. Subunits Yn1 and 4 can make a heterodimer, which is detectable not only in rat testis, but also in the heart, kidney and lung. The Yn1Yn1 form was not detected in the testis, but is present in rat brain [Tsuchida et al. (1987) Eur. J. Biochem. 170, 159-164]. The Yn2Yn2 form seemed to differ from GST 5-5 and may be a new form of rat glutathione S-transferase.
Abstract The glutathione S -transferases (GSTs) are a family of phase II detoxification enzymes which protect against chemical injury. In contrast to mammals, GST expression in fish has not been extensively characterized, especially in the context of detoxifying waterborne pollutants. In the Northwestern United States, coho salmon ( Oncorhynchus kisutch ) are an important species of Pacific salmon with complex life histories that can include exposure to a variety of compounds including GST substrates. In the present study we characterized the expression of coho hepatic GST to better understand the ability of coho to detoxify chemicals of environmental relevance. Western blotting of coho hepatic GST revealed the presence of multiple GST-like proteins of approximately 24–26 kDa. Reverse phase HPLC subunit analysis of GSH affinity-purified hepatic GST demonstrated six major and at least two minor potential GST isoforms which were characterized by liquid chromatography electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry (LC/ESI MS–MS) and Fourier transform-ion cyclotron resonance (FT-ICR) MS analyses. The major hepatic coho GST isoforms consisted of a pi and a rho-class GST, whereas GSTs representing the alpha and mu classes constituted minor isoforms. Catalytic studies demonstrated that coho cytosolic GSTs were active towards the prototypical GST substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, as well as towards ethacrynic acid and nitrobutyl chloride. However, there was no observable cytosolic GST activity towards the pesticides methyl parathion or atrazine, or products of oxidative stress, such as cumene hydroperoxide and 4-hydroxynonenal. Interestingly, coho hepatic cytosolic fractions had a limited ability to bind bilirubin, reflecting a potential role in the sequestering of metabolic by-products. In summary, coho salmon exhibit a complex hepatic GST isoform expression profile consisting of several GST classes, but may have a limited a capacity to conjugate substrates of toxicological significance such as pesticides and endogenous compounds associated with cellular oxidative stress.
Abstract 1. 1. Glutathione S -transferase activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was measured in 27 different tissues of rat, and in 21 different tissues of humans. 2. 2. In rat the highest activity was present in liver, while in humans the highest activities were found in kidney and liver. 3. 3. Most tissues of the same type from rat and human origin had comparable activities, excepted rat liver and testes which were 7- and 3-fold higher respectively, and rat muscle which was 10-fold lower than similar activities in human tissues.
The optical biosensor consisting of a glutathione-S-transferase (GST)-immobilized gel film was developed to detect captan in contaminated water. The sensing scheme was based on the decrease of yellow product, s-(2,4-dinitrobenzene) glutathione, produced from substrates, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and glutathione (GSH), due to the inhibition of GST reaction by captan. Absorbance of the product as the output of enzyme reaction was detected and the light was guided through the optical fibers. The enzyme reactor of the sensor system was fabricated by the gel entrapment technique for the immobilized GST film. The immobilized GST had the maximum activity at pH 6.5. The optimal concentrations of substrates were determined with 1 mM for both of CDNB and GSH. The optimum concentration of enzyme was also determined with 100 microg/ml. The activity of immobilized enzyme was fairly sustained during 30 days. The proposed biosensor could successfully detect the captan up to 2 ppm and the response time to steady signal was about 15 min.
Several methods have been used by various groups to measure GSH and GSSG. Classic approaches such as spectrophotometric-based methods are well described in the literature; the most common of these methods are the glutathione S-transferase 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) endpoint method and the GSH-5,5′-dithio-bis (2-nitrobenzoic acid) "enzymatic recycling assay" [15] [16] [17] . Despite its popularity, however, the CDNB endpoint method measures only GSH and lacks sensitivity [15] ; moreover, in both methods GSH can be readily oxidized during sample preparation, leading to an error when calculating GSH and GSSG levels [18, 19] . Thus, these methods provide unsatisfactory levels of specificity and selectivity. Chromatographic methods such as HPLC-UV, HPLC-FL, LC-MS, and GC-MS are commonly used to measure glutathione [20, 21] . Capillary electrophoresis coupled to mass spectrometry (CE-MS) is particularly well suited due to its high separation efficiency, high selectivity, and low solvent and sample consumption [22, 23] .
We confirmed the computational prediction experimentally: after heterologous expression in E. coli GST activity of purified PfEXP1 toward the standard substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was measured. The link to malaria parasite biology was further strengthened by our next observation that PfEXP1 as well as its close ortholog Plasmodium yoelii PyHEP17 (17 kDa hepatocyte 
Despite this, some studies highlighted the existence of specificities among GSTF members. A study focusing on six GSTFs from T. aestivum induced upon herbicide, safener, and flavonoid exposures showed that they have variable biochemical and enzymatic properties [25] . Two of these GSTFs have a high peroxidase activity compared to the others. Among the GSTFs exhibiting a moderate peroxidase activity, the two isoforms with the highest GSH-conjugating activities with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) are also inhibited by flavonoids, while the two others are not [25] . In fact, this glutathione peroxidase activity seems to represent another important facet of Ser-GSTs. Indeed, when A. thaliana plants express such a GST with high peroxidase activity from the black-grass Alopecurus myosuroides, which is found at a high constitutive level in this species, they acquire multiple herbicide resistance, concomitantly with the accumulation of flavonoids [26] . Hence, this activity could be critical to control the level of fatty acid hydroperoxides whose byproducts can be harmful but at the same time can act as signaling molecules.
Abstract Male Wistar rats were treated with hexachlorobenzene, benzyl isothiocyanate, phenobarbital or 3-methylcholanthrene. Hepatic cytosolic glutathione S -transferase (GST) activity was determined with the substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, ethacrynic acid and trans -4-phenyl-3-buten-2-one. Cytosolic glutathione peroxidase activity was measured with cumene hydroperoxide. GST activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene and ethacrynic acid was enhanced by all compounds, hexachlorobenzene and 3-methylcholanthrene causing the largest and the smallest increase respectively. Trans -4-phenyl-3-buten-2-one-conjugating activity exhibited only small changes, while peroxidase activity with cumeme hydroperoxide was not changed by any of the inducing agents. GST isoenzymes were purified on S -hexylglutathione Sepharose 6B and separated by means of FPLC-chromatofocusing, to evaluate effects on the GST isoenzyme pattern. Hexachlorobenzene and phenobarbital both caused an increase in the relative amounts of subunits 1 and 3 when compared with subunits 2 and 4 respectively. For 3-methylcholanthrene only induction of subunit 1 was observed, possibly due to the relatively low induction levels of total GST activity. In benzyl isothiocyanate-treated animals, an induction of subunit 3 was found as well as an increase in the relative amount of subunit 2. Thus, benzyl isothiocyanate behaves differently from hexa-chlorobenzene, phenobarbital and 3-methylcholanthrene as an inducing agent of rat hepatic glutathione S -transferases.
Ovarian carcinoma cells 10-fold resistant to the alkylating agent chlorambucil (CBL) were isolated after repeated exposure of the parent cells to gradually escalating concentrations of the drug. The resistant variant, A2780(100), was highly cross-resistant (9-fold) to melphalan and showed lower-level resistance to other cross-linking agents. The resistant A2780(100) cells had almost 5-fold higher glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity than the parental A2780 cells with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrate. The pi-class GST(s) was the major isoform(s) in both cell lines. However, the resistant A2780(100) cells had at least 11-fold higher GST mu as compared with the parental cells, in which this isoform was barely detectable. A significant induction of GST mu was observed in A2780 cells, but not in the resistant cells, 18 hr after a single exposure to 100 microM CBL. The induction of GST mu by CBL was both time- and concentration-dependent. Assays of the conjugation of CBL with GSH showed that the human mu-class GST had 3.6- and 5.2-fold higher catalytic efficiency relative to the pi- and alpha-class GSTs, respectively. This difference was reflected in the relatively higher (about 6-fold) efficiency of CBL conjugation in A2780(100) cells as compared with the parental cells. These results have demonstrated for the first time a near-linear correlation between CBL resistance and overexpression of mu-class GSTs and suggest that this overexpression maybe responsible, at least in part, for the acquired resistance of ovarian carcinoma cells to CBL, and possibly the other bifunctional alkylating agents. Consistent with this hypothesis, we found evidence for decreased formation of DNA lesions in A2780(100) compared with the drug-sensitive A2780 cells after exposure to CBL.
Glutathione-S-tranferase (GST) is an enzyme able to conjugate glutathione to electrophilic molecules such as 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene or some triazinic pesticides, such as atrazine, with production of protons. The Langmuir-Blodgett (LB) technique was utilized and optimized to obtain stable monolayers of this enzyme. The film was then characterized by means of circular dichroism spectroscopy, nanogravimetry, and spectrophotometry in order to determine the structure, surface density, and functional activity of the enzyme when packed in the monolayers. The functional analysis of the LB film was also conducted as a function of the number of layers and of the temperature. While the kinetic response as a function of layers suggested that only the external layer was active, the film activity as a function of temperature indicated that, as shown earlier for other proteins, GST in a LB film appears to strictly preserve its functional activity and thus its structure up to 423 K. The enzymatic activity was finally tested in solution with the potentiometric alternating biosensor (PAB) system, with the minimum detectable amount of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene being 25 μM. The analysis was highly encouraging for a biosensor application, considering that both structure and function appear largely preserved after the deposition.
It is often difficult to discriminate between chemically induced skin irritation and sensitization due to their similar clinical, pathological, and immunological responses. More information than that currently available from local lymph node assays (LLNAs), such as data from gene expression and pathway analysis, can provide more insightful data than the assay itself for distinguishing skin sensitization from skin irritation. This study investigated the gene expression profiles and pathways in ear skins of mice topically exposed daily for three consecutive days to the known strong contact sensitizer 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, the skin contact sensitizer 2-phenyl-4-ethoxymethylene-5-oxazolone, the skin or respiratory sensitizer toluene 2,4-diisocyanate, or to the non-sensitizing irritant croton oil. All the sensitizers induced histological changes in ear tissues similar to those induced by the croton oil. In gene expression microarrays, sensitizers up-regulated 193 genes and down-regulated 61 genes in ear skin following chemical exposure. 13 genes whose expression was affected by more than two-fold by all three of the sensitizers, but not by the irritant, were selected by microarray analysis. Microarray and real-time RT-PCR analyses revealed that, of these genes, the allergic inflammation-related genes Oasl2 and Zbp1 were up-regulated in skin inflammation by the sensitizers. In gene expression pathway analysis of all the sensitizers and the croton oil, the top functions of the 48 genes were related to cytokine and cytokine receptors interactions, and only two genes (Cxcl9 and Cxcl10) were specific to skin sensitizer-induced skin inflammation. Thus, although contact sensitizer-induced skin inflammation is similar to irritant-induced responses in terms of histological changes and gene expression profiles, the regulation of allergic inflammation-related gene transcripts, such as those of Oasl2 and Zbp1 or Cxcl9 and Cxcl10, could help to discriminate skin sensitization from chemically induced skin inflammation.
Our recent studies have shown that ellagic acid, a naturally occurring dietary plant phenol, protects BALB/c mice against 3-methylcholanthrene-induced skin tumorigenesis. To further elucidate the mechanism of the antineoplastic action of ellagic acid its effect on hepatic and pulmonary benzo[a]pyrene (BP) metabolism, cytochrome P-450-dependent monooxygenases and glutathione S-transferase activities were studied in BALB/c mice. Chronic oral feeding of the compound in drinking water (0.3 mg/l for 16 weeks) or acute intraperitoneal administration (50 mg/kg for five consecutive days) of ellagic acid resulted in 20-25% decreases in hepatic and pulmonary cytochrome P-450 levels. Hepatic and pulmonary aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase and 7-ethoxycoumarin O-deethylase activities in both groups of ellagic acid-treated animals were 33-52% and 28-43% lower than their respective non-ellagic acid-treated controls. Hepatic as well as pulmonary aminopyrine N-demethylase and epoxide hydrolase activities were unchanged in both groups of ellagic acid-treated mice. Hepatic glutathione S-transferase activity towards BP-4,5-oxide or 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrates was found to be enhanced 51-79% and 38-58% in both groups of animals. H.p.l.c. analysis of organic solvent-soluble metabolites of BP by liver and lung microsomes indicated a substantial inhibition of diol formation (including BP-7,8-diol), as well as of phenols and quinones. In liver, these inhibitory effects were more pronounced after oral feeding than after intraperitoneal administration. Our results indicate that both acute and chronic administration of ellagic acid inhibits BP metabolism and/or enhances glutathione S-transferase activity. Thus the modulation of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon metabolism by ellagic acid may be related to the anticarcinogenic effects of this compound.
Glutathione transferase from the hepatopancreas of fresh water crayfish Macrobrachium vollenhovenii was purified to apparent homogeneity by ion-exchange chromatography on DEAE-cellulose and by gel filtration on Sephadex G-100. The enzyme appeared to be a homodimer with molecular weight (Mr) of 46.0 ± 1.4 kDa and a subunit Mr of 24.1 ± 0.35 kDa. Chromatofocusing of the apparently pure enzyme revealed microheterogeneity and resolved it into two isozymic peaks, which were eluted at pH 8.36 and 8.22 respectively. Inhibition studies showed that the I50 value for cibacron blue, S-hexylglutathione, hematin, and N-ethylmaleimide (NEM) were 0.01 μM, 340μM, 5 μM and 33 mM respectively. Out of the several substrates tested, only 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and 7-chloro-4-nitrobenzo-2-oxa-1,3-diazole could be conjugated with glutathione. Chemical modification studies with DTNB revealed that two sulphydryl groups per dimer were essential to the activity of the enzymes. On the basis of structural and catalytic characteristics, M. vollenhovenii GST seems close, tentatively, to the omega and zeta classes of GST. Initial-velocity studies of the enzyme are consistent with a steady-state random kinetic mechanism. Denaturation and renaturation studies with guanidine HCl (Gdn-HCl) revealed that though low Gdn-HCl concentrations (less than 0.5 M) denatured the enzyme, the enzyme was able to renature completely (100%). At higher concentration of the denaturant (0.5–4 M), refolding studies indicated that complete renaturation was not achieved. The extent of renaturation was however a function of protein concentration. Our results are consistent with a three-state unfolding process. © 2005 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Biochem Mol Toxicol 18:332–344, 2004; Published online in Wiley InterScience (www.interscience.wiley.com). DOI 10.1002/jbt.20044
A membrane-bound enzyme responsible for generating nitric oxide (NO) from nitroglycerin (NTG) in vascular smooth muscle cells has been characterized. The enzyme could be solubilized from vascular microsomes by several detergents, the most effective of which was 3-[(3-cholamidopropyl)-dimethylamino]-1-propanesulfonate (CHAPS). A partially purified enzyme preparation was obtained with CHAPS-solubilized vascular microsomes that were processed sequentially through an ion exchange column and a gel filtration column. The activity of this partially purified enzyme showed a dependence on substrate concentration, protein concentration and the duration of incubation. Enzyme activity was enhanced 2.7- to 4.2-fold by several thiols such as cysteine, N-acetylcysteine, reduced glutathione, and dithiothreitol. On the other hand, N-ethylmaleimide, iodoacetic acid, p-chloromercuric benzoic acid and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, reagents known to bind with the free sulfhydryl groups, inactivated the NO-generating activity from NTG. The enzyme activity could be reversibly bound to an organomercurial column. These results suggested the presence of a free thiol group in the enzyme and that this thiol group was required for enzyme activity. The partially purified enzyme was active in the presence of 0.1% sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS). The enzyme was purified to near homogeneity using several sequential chromatographic steps including DEAE-Sephacel, Biogel A 1.5 m, hydroxylapatite and organomercurial columns, resulting in an increase in enzyme activity of about 94-fold. The subunit of this enzyme, as identified on an SDS-treated electrophoresis gel, had an apparent molecular size of 58 kDa.
Abstract Down syndrome (DS) is the phenotypic manifestation of trisomy 21. Our study was concerned with the characterization and purification of glutathione S -transferase enzyme (GST) from normal and Down syndrome (DS) erythrocytes to illustrate the difference in the role of this enzyme in the cell. Glutathione S -transferase and glutathione (GSH) was determined in ten DS and ten healthy children matched for age (3–10 years). DS group exhibited significantly lower GST value (2.7 units/g Hb) as compared to controls (6.6 units/g Hb) (40.9%). GST activity was significantly decreased to 40.9% in the DS group as compared to controls. Also GSH concentration was significantly decreased to 60.6% in the DS group compared to the controls. Glutathione transferase was purified from erythrocytes of normal and DS pooled blood samples by affinity chromatography with specific activity of 23.7% and 7.9%, respectively. The effect of freezing and thawing, storage time of freezing and GSH concentration on the stability of the enzyme were examined. Normal GST exhibited a pH optimum at pH 7 followed by sharp decrease, however DS GST exhibited pH optimum between pH 7.5 and 8. The K m values for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and GSH were 0.205 mM and 0.786 mM, respectively, for normal GST, and 0.318 mM and 1.307 mM, respectively for DS GST. The activation energy ( E a ) was calculated to be 2.25 and 4.25 cal/mol for normal GST and 3.8 cal/mol for DS GST. Normal and DS GST were inhibited by the same inhibitors (hematin, bromosulfophthalein and cibacron blue), but with different degree. On kinetic basis, the individuals with lower overall GST activity and slight differences in some kinetic characters are at greater risk from xenobiotic contamination as compared to those with higher overall GST activity observed in normal individuals.
The steady-state kinetics of glutathione S-transferase I1 (GST I1) from housefly Musca domestica expressed in Escherichia coli were investigated with glutathione (GSH) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). Concentrations of the varied substrates were from 0.03 to 1 mM for GSH and 0.05 to 1 mM for CDNB. Within this range, Michaelis–Menten behaviour was observed and convergent straight lines in double reciprocal plots excluded a ping-pong kinetic mechanism. Instead, data were consistent either with rapid-equilibrium random or with steady-state ordered sequential mechanisms because of abscissa convergence. Discrimination was achieved by studying the reaction with another electrophilic partner, p-nitrophenyl-acetate (PNPA). Concentrations of PNPA and GSH varied within the ranges 0.5 to 10 mM and 0.03 to 0.6 mM, respectively. The complete set of data supports the proposal of a rapid-equilibrium random-sequential model with strictly independent sites for GSH and CDNB or PNPA. Kinetic parameters are thus true dissociation equilibrium constants with values of 0.15 mM for GSH, 0.15 mM for CDNB, and 7 mM for PNPA. Analysis of the inhibition by the product (S-(2,4-dinitrophenyl)-glutathione, 10 to 100 μM), on the coupling reaction between GSH and CDNB with either GSH (0.05 to 0.5 mM, CDNB 0.2 mM) or CDNB (0.05 to 0.5 mM, GSH 0.2 mM) varied, consistent with the proposed mechanism. Binding of product to the free enzyme excludes GSH (competitive inhibition pattern with Kp=12 μM) but only slightly hinders binding of CDNB. Binding free energies, together with the inhibition pattern, suggest that the non-peptidic moiety of product interacts with an alternative sub-site within the large open pocket accommodating the various electrophilic substrates. These results lead us to propose a model for intra-pocket shifting of the non-peptidic moiety upon product formation which contributes to the product release.
Responses of hepatic glutathione S-transferase (GST) activities to protein-free diet (PFD) and normal diet (ND) refeeding were compared for young (6-month-old) and old (22-month-old) C57/BL male mice. Enzyme activities toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) were not significantly different between young and old rat livers in the basal condition without diet manipulation. When animals were fed PFD for 1 week, GST activities toward CDNB significantly declined in both age groups in comparison to respective basal values, but there was no significant difference in activities between the two age groups after a 7-day PFD. When they were refed with ND for 2 days (on day 2 of ND), the activities in young mice rose to a level significantly higher than the corresponding basal value. In contrast, in old animal livers, the activity slightly but further tended to decline on day 2 of ND. Activities in old rat livers returned to the basal level on day 5 of ND, while activities in young animal livers that increased to levels higher than basal levels due to the overshoot returned to the basal level on day 7 of ND. Enzyme activities toward 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB) were significantly higher in young rat livers than in old ones at the basal period. However, enzyme activities also overshot the basal level on day 2 of ND after 7-day PFD in young mouse livers, while in old mouse livers the activities were lowest on this day. Activities returned to the basal level on day 7 of ND in both age groups. Thus, the greatest difference in enzyme activities between young and old mouse livers for both substrates was observed on day 2 of ND after 7-day PFD, rather than at either the basal period or immediately after 7-day PFD. The results essentially agree with our previous findings on female C57/BL mice as well as female Fischer-344 rats, suggesting that the age-induced changes in the GST system become clearly manifest after diet manipulation of PFD followed by ND refeeding, rather than in values during a basal period without diet manipulation, regardless of sex or species of animal.
1. Addition of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene to isolated perfused rat liver results in the rapid formation of its glutathione-S-conjugate [S-(2,4-dinitrophenyl)glutathione], which is released into both, bile and effluent perfusate. Anisotonic perfusion did not affect total S-conjugate formation, but release of the S-conjugate into the perfusate was increased (decreased) following hypertonic (hypotonic) exposure at the expense of excretion into bile. Stimulation of S-conjugate release into the perfusate following hypertonic exposure paralleled the time course of volume-regulatory net K+ uptake. 2. Basal steady-state release of oxidized glutathione (GSSG) into bile was 1.30 +/- 0.12 nmol.g-1.min-1 (n = 18) during normotonic (305 mOsmol/l) perfusion and was 3.8 +/- 0.3 nmol.g-1.min-1 in the presence of t-butylhydroperoxide (50 mumol/l). Hypotonic exposure (225 mOsmol/1) lowered both, basal and t-butylhydroperoxide (50 mumol/l)-stimulated GSSG release into bile by 35% and 20%, respectively, whereas hypertonic exposure (385 mOsmol/l) increased. Anisotonic exposure was without effect on t-butylhydroperoxide removal by the liver. GSSG release into bile also decreased by 33% upon liver-cell swelling due to addition of glutamine plus glycine (2 mmol/l, each). 3. Hypotonic exposure led to a persistent stimulation 14CO2 production from [1-14C]glucose by about 80%, whereas 14CO2 production from [6-14C]glucose increased by only 10%. Conversely, hypertonic exposure inhibited 14CO2 production from [1-14C]glucose by about 40%, whereas 14CO2 production from [6-14C]glucose was unaffected. The effect of anisotonicity on 14CO2 production from [1-14C]glucose was also observed in presence of t-butylhydroperoxide (50 mumol/l), which increased 14CO2 production from [1-14C]glucose by about 40%. 4. t-Butylhydroperoxide (50 mumol/l) was without significant effect on volume-regulatory K+ fluxes following exposure to hypotonic (225 mOsmol/l) or hypertonic (385 mOsmol/l) perfusate. Lactate dehydrogenase release from perfused rat liver under the influence of t-butylhydroperoxide was increased by hypertonic exposure compared to hypotonic perfusions. 5. The data suggest that hypotonic cell swelling stimulates flux through the pentose-phosphate pathway and diminishes loss of GSSG under conditions of mild oxidative stress. Hypotonically swollen cells are less prone to hydroperoxide-induced lactate dehydrogenase release than hypertonically shrunken cells. Hypertonic cell shrinkage stimulates the excretion of glutathione-S-conjugates into the sinusoidal circulation at the expense of biliary secretion.
The effects of cigarette smoke (CS) on hepatic and pulmonary monooxygenase (MO) activities (aniline␣4-hydroxylase, AH; aminopyrine N-demethylase, AMND; 7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase, EROD; p-nitroanisole O-demethylase, p-NAOD), lipid peroxidation (LP), and reduced glutathione (GSH) levels and glutathione S-transferase (GST) activities toward several substrates (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, CDNB; 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, DCNB; ethacrynic acid, EAA; 1,2-epoxy-3-( p-nitrophenoxy)-propane, ENPP) were determined in 20-, 90- and 360-day-old male rats. The animals were exposed to CS five times a day, with 1 h intervals, for 3 days in a chamber supplied alternatively with smoke and fresh air, and were killed 16 h after the last treatments. The hepatic AH activity increased significantly in 20-day-old rats and remained unaltered in older age groups. The hepatic AMND activity unaltered, significantly increased and decreased in 20-, 90- and 360-day-old rats, respectively. The pulmonary AH activity increased significantly in 20- and 90-day-old rats whereas no alteration was noted in 360-day-old rats. CS was ineffective on pulmonary AMND activity at all ages. CS increased hepatic and pulmonary EROD and p-NAOD activities significantly in all age groups compared to controls. In liver, LP level was significantly increased, decreased, and unaltered in 20-, 90- and 360-day-old rats, respectively. CS increased hepatic GSH level significantly in 90-day-old rats but was not effective in the other age groups. In lung, LP level was increased in 90- and 360-day-old rats and unaltered in 20-day-old rats. CS increased pulmonary GSH level significantly in 90-day-old rats and did not have any effect in the other age groups. The hepatic GST activities toward CDNB and DCNB decreased significantly in 360-day-old rats and were unaltered in the younger age groups. The hepatic GST activity toward EAA was unaltered, significantly increased and decreased in 20-, 90- and 360-day-old rats, respectively. The hepatic GST activity toward ENPP decreased significantly in 20- and 90-day-old rats but was unaltered in the oldest group of rats. In 20-day-old rats, the pulmonary GST activity toward ENPP increased significantly whereas the other GST activities did not alter. In 90-day-old rats, however, CS significantly decreased all the pulmonary GST activities studied. Unaltered DCNB GST, significant increase in EAA GST and decrease in CDNB and ENPP GST activities of lung were noted in 360-day-old rats. These results reveal that the regulation in rats of hepatic and pulmonary MO and GST activities are differentially influenced by CS as a function of age.
Glutathione S-transferase (GST) specific enzymatic activity, assayed with the model substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, was 45% higher in adult Heligmosomoides polygyrus passaged through a slow responder mouse strain, C57/BL10 compared to worms passaged through a fast-responder strain (SWR x SJL) F1. Western analysis using polyclonal antisera raised to purified H. polygyrus GSTs did not appear to positively correlate the expression of GST protein with functional enzymatic activity. However, western blotting did indicate a sex-linked expression pattern of GST protein, with male worms expressing a higher ratio of the 24 kDa to the 23 kDa GST family than female worms.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) from Liposcelis bostrychophila Badonnel and L. entomophila (Enderlein) (Psocoptera: Liposcelididae) were purified by glutathione-agarose affinity chromatography, and characterized subsequently by their Michaelis-Menten kinetics toward the artificial substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and reduced glutathione (GSH), respectively. The specific activity of the purified GST toward CDNB was 2.3-fold higher in L. bostrychophila than in L. entomophila. Though the specific activities of purified enzymes varied between the two species, the purification yields were similar. SDS-PAGE revealed one band at 23 kDa for both the species. GSTs of L. entomophila exhibited higher Michaelis-Menten constants (Km) but lower maximal velocity (Vmax) values than those of L. bostrychophila. The optimum pH for CDNB conjugation of L. bostrychophila and L. entomophila GSTs was 7.0 and 7.5, and optimum temperature was 35 and 40°C, respectively. Inhibition kinetics showed that cibacron blue, curcumin, bromosulfalein, ethacrynic acid, and carbosulfan had excellent inhibitory effects on GSTs in both species, but the inhibitory effects of beta-cypermethrin, fenpropathrin, tetraethylthiuram disulfide, and diethyl maleate were not significant.
The kinetics of glutathione 5-transferase (GST) catalysis were investigated in largemouth bass (Micropterus salmoides) and brown bullheads (Amerius nebulosus), two freshwater fish species found in a variety of polluted waterways in the eastern US. The initial rates of hepatic GST activity toward four GST substrates, including 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, ethacrynic acid, {Delta}5-androstene-17-dione, and nitrobutyl chloride, were significantly higher in brown bullheads than in largemouth bass. Hepatic GST activity toward 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, a {mu}-class GST substrate in rodents, was not detectable in either species. Liver cytosolic GSTs were more efficient in bullheads than in bass at catalyzing 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene-reduced glutathione (CDNB-GSH) conjugation over a broad range of electrophile (CDNB) concentrations, including those representative of environmental exposure. In contrast, largemouth bass maintained higher ambient concentrations of GSH, the nucleophilic cofactor for GST-mediated conjugation, than brown bullheads. Biphasic kinetics for GST-CDNB conjugation under conditions of variable GSH concentration were apparent in Eadie-Hofstee plots of the kinetic data, suggesting the presence of at least two hepatic GST isozymes with markedly different K{sub m} values for GSH in both species. The GST-CDNB reaction rate data obtained under conditions of variable GSH were well fitted (R{sup 2} = 0.999) by the two-enzyme Michaelis-Menten equation. In addition, Western blotting experiments confirmedmore » the presence of two different hepatic GST-like proteins in both largemouth bass and brown bullhead liver. Collectively, these findings indicate that largemouth bass and brown bullhead GSTs catalyze the conjugation of structurally diverse, class-specific GST substrates, and that brown bullheads exhibit higher initial rates of GST activity than largemouth bass. The relatively higher rates of in vitro liver GST activity at the low substrate concentrations relevant to environmental exposure is expected to protect brown bullheads from the toxic effects of sediment-associated electrophilic chemicals. The somewhat lower rates of GST activity in largemouth bass liver compared with brown bullhead liver, however, may be offset by maintenance of higher ambient hepatic GSH concentrations in largemouth bass.« less
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) deficiency has been implicated in pathogenesis of Huntington's disease (HD). 3-Nitropropionic acid (3-NP), an irreversible mitochondrial complex II inhibitor, has been commonly used as a pharmacological model recapitulating HD phenotypes in rodents and nonhuman primates. Herein we test whether BDNF may exert neuroprotective effects against mitochondrial dysfunction caused by 3-NP in primary culture of fetal rat cortical neurons. Preconditioning of neuronal cells with BDNF (100 ng/ml for 8h) attenuated 3-NP toxicity (2.5 mM for additional 24h) based on Hoechst and propidium iodide (PI) staining. BDNF effects can be inhibited by the nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor L-nitroarginine methylester (L-NAME, 100 microM), the cGMP-dependent protein kinase (PKG) inhibitor KT5823 (2 microM), the thioredoxin reductase inhibitor 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB, 5 microM), and a membrane-permeable Bcl-2 inhibitor (12.5 microM). 8-Br-cGMP is a cGMP analogue capable of activating PKG independent of NO. Exogenous application of 8-Br-cGMP (3-30 microM) and purified thioredoxin (3-5 microM) partially mimicked BDNF effects in conferring 3-NP resistance to cortical cells. These results, together with our previous report showing NO donor S-nitrosoglutathione (GSNO)-mediated neuroprotective effects against 3-NP toxicity, suggest that BDNF may protect neurons from mitochondrial dysfunction at least partly via activation of the signaling cascades involving NOS/NO, PKG, thioredoxin and Bcl-2.
derivative of 1,2-dithiole-3-thione, is a potent inducer of these Oltipraz (OPZ) is a potent chemopreventive agent against enzymes. Recently, we demonstrated that OPZ can also affect chemically-induced carcinogenesis in several animal the activity of cytochrome P450 enzymes. It has a strong models. It affects the expression and/or activity of inhibitory effect on CYP1A2 and 3A4 in primary human xenobiotic-metabolizing enzymes and its effects are altered hepatocyte cultures (10) and increases the levels of CYP1A1 in the course of inflammation in liver. The present study and CYP2B1/2 mRNA in the rat after transiently inhibiting was undertaken to analyse the effect of OPZ alone or in their activities in the early stages of treatment (11). Thus both combination with Escherichia coli lipopolysaccharide (LPS) inhibition of CYPs and induction of electrophile detoxification on the expression and activities of glutathione S-trans- enzymes are likely to contribute to chemoprevention by OPZ. ferases (GSTs) and cytochrome P450 (CYPs) in rat lung Although most tissues possess lower levels of carcinogenand kidney. Male Wistar rats were fed a diet containing metabolizing enzymes than the liver, it is becoming increasOPZ for 1–5 days. LPS was injected 24 h before the end ingly evident that extrahepatic metabolism of carcinogens of OPZ treatment (from 48 to 72 h). Total GST activity, can modify their bioactivity. Thus, intestinal and pulmonary measured using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as a substrate, detoxification enzymes could represent the first body protection increased slightly in both lung and kidney during OPZ against harmful agents. The kidney is also a key organ for the treatment. As previously demonstrated in the liver, OPZ elimination of noxious agents, but only few data are available induced rat GSTP1 in both kidney and lung and this effect on the effects of dithiolethiones on renal xenobiotic-metabolizwas totally (kidney) or partially (lung) inhibited by co- ing enzymes (12). Moreover, most of these reports have treatment with LPS. CYP1A expression and activity were focused on the effects of dithiolethiones on phase II enzymes strongly increased in both tissues 24 h after starting OPZ (12), and few studies have been performed on the modulation treatment and maintained for 5 days. This increase was of CYP enzymes by these compounds in kidney and lung. suppressed during the acute-phase response to endotoxin. The expression or activities of drug-metabolizing enzymes OPZ has no effect on CYP2B1 mRNA expression in the can be altered by environmental, genetic or physiopathological lung, but it dramatically decreased the amount and activity factors. Recently, we have demonstrated that the effect of OPZ of the corresponding apoprotein. The OPZ-dependent is altered in the course of inflammation induced by Escherichia decrease in the CYP2B1 apoprotein was abolished and coli lipopolysaccharide (LPS), a classical inducer of the acute its corresponding activity partially reversed during LPS phase response (13). A strong increase in rGSTA1/2, rGSTM1, treatment. In reconstitution experiments using cytosol from rGSTP1, CYP1A2 and CYP2B1/2 was observed in rat liver OPZ-treated or control rat lungs and microsomal fractions, after 3 days’ treatment with OPZ, but the induction of these CYP2B1 apoprotein was rapidly degraded in the presence enzymes was suppressed at the mRNA, protein and activity of cytosol from treated rats. This effect was partially levels during the acute phase response to endotoxin (13). A reversed in the presence of MG132, a proteasome inhibitor. number of physiopathological situations are known to impair These observations support the conclusion that the decrease the balance between activation and detoxification of carcinoof CYP2B1 by OPZ involves proteasome-dependent gens and other chemicals. Moreover, epidemiological studies degradation and represents a new mechanism of regulation indicate that chronic inflammation associated with ulcerative by this compound. colitis, gastritis or hepatitis manifested during bacterial, parasitic or viral infections is linked to increased risk of development of malignant neoplasms (14–16). These latter
Danggui Buxue Tang (DBT) is a herbal decoction that has been used in Chinese medicine to enhance qi and blood circulation. Previously, we found that DBT can suppress allergy-related asthma in mice, leading us to hypothesize that DBT might ameliorate allergy disease. In this study, we evaluated whether DBT can attenuate atopic dermatitis (AD) symptoms and have an anti-inflammatory effect on AD-like mice. The dorsal skin of female mice was shaved and sensitized cutaneously (skin smear) with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Mice were then given various doses of DBT from days 14 to 29 cutaneously. DBT treatment suppressed ear swelling and skin inflammation and decreased mast cell and eosinophil infiltration into skin and ear tissue. DBT also inhibited levels of IgE and Th2-associated cytokine levels in serum. These results demonstrate that cutaneous administration of DBT reduced the development of AD-like skin lesions in mice.
The purpose of this investigation was to determine age-related changes of some hepatic drug-metabolizing activities in Lacaune ewes in the foetal, neonatal (1 and 4 weeks), growing (7 months), pregnant (11 months) and adult (6 years) stages. Although microsomal cytochrome P-450 was not detected in 3-month-old foetuses, it increased regularly from 1-week- to 11-month-old animals. Among mixed-function oxidases, the development of aminopyrine and ethylmorphine N-demethylases, benzo(alpha)pyrene hydroxylase and ethoxycoumarin O-deethylase were correlated to that of total cytochrome P-450. Due to their presence in foetal liver or their more rapid evolution, cytochrome b5, NADPH cytochrome c reductase, aniline hydroxylase, benzphetamine N-demethylase and erythromycin N-demethylase did not parallel the ontogenesis of cytochrome P-450. Hepatic transferases showed different developmental patterns from mono-oxygenases, so UDP glucuronyltransferase was detected in the foetus, reached maximum activity in all young ages up to the pregnant stage and subsequently fell in adult ewes. Concerning glutathione S-transferase accepting 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate, similar values were obtained in the foetus and all young animals, whereas five- to tenfold higher values were obtained in both pregnant and adult female sheep. N-acetyltransferase using sulphamethazine did not significantly change from foetuses to adults but there were large differences in the capacity of hepatic acetylation between animals belonging to the same group.
Hexaploid wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) has very low constitutive glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity when assayed with the chloroacetamide herbicide dimethenamid as a substrate, which may account for its low tolerance to dimethenamid in the field. Treatment of seeds with the herbicide safener fluxofenim increased the total GST activity extracted from T. aestivum shoots 9-fold when assayed with dimethenamid as a substrate, but had no effect on glutathione levels. Total GST activity in crude protein extracts from T. aestivum, Triticum durum, and Triticum tauschii was separated into several component GST activities by anion-exchange fast-protein liquid chromatography. These activities (isozymes) differed with respect to their activities toward dimethenamid or 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrates and in their levels of induction by safener treatment. A safener-induced GST isozyme was subsequently purified by anion-exchange and affinity chromatography from etiolated shoots of the diploid wheat species T. tauschii (a progenitor of hexaploid wheat) treated with the herbicide safener cloquintocet-mexyl. The isozyme bound to a dimethenamid-affinity column and had a subunit molecular mass of 26 kD based on sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The purified enzyme (designated GST TSI-1) was recognized by an antiserum raised against a mixture of maize (Zea mays) GSTs. Amino acid sequences obtained from protease-digested GST TSI-1 had significant homology with the safener-inducible maize GST V and two auxin-regulated tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) GST isozymes.
Abstract 1. 1. The major glutathione S -transferase (GST) from the common squid Loligo vulgaris has been purified and shown to be a homodimer of subunit molecular mass 24,000 and pI 6.8. 2. 2. It has high activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, p -nitrobenzyl chloride, 4-hydroxynon-2-enal and linoleic acid hydroperoxide, low activity with 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene and no activity with ethacrynic acid, trans -4-phenyl-3-buten-2-one and 1,2-epoxy-3-( p -nitrophenoxy)propane. 3. 3. The L. vulgaris GST did not cross-react with any of the available polyclonal antibodies raised against mammalian GSTs. 4. 4. Forty amino acids of its N -terminal sequence have been determined. 5. 5. Its activities and primary structure are compared with related proteins from other species.
Abstract 1. Phase I and phase II biotransformation was compared in streptozotocin-induced hypo-insulinemic (STZ) and genetic hyperinsulinemic (WKY-fatty) rats. 2. Total cytochrome P-450 concentrations were reduced in both STZ and WKY, whereas styrene oxide hydrolase and benzphetamine N -demethylase activities were normal in STZ and reduced in WKY. 3. UDP-glucuronosyltransferase activity was decreased toward testosterone and 1-naphthol in STZ and WKY, and was increased toward estrone in the obese female WKY. 4. Glutathione S -transferase activity was decreased in STZ toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, ethacrynic acid and sulfobromophthalein, but was similar to that in normal rats for WKY.
Acrylamide (AA) is a toxic compound formed in thermally prepared foods by Maillard reaction. Besides foods, AA may be found in cosmetic products as an impurity of the widely-used non-toxic polyacrylamide. We present a novel, fast and selective detection method based on the amperometric monitoring of the coupling reaction between reduced glutathione (GSH) and AA catalyzed by glutathione S-transferase (GST) to produce an electrochemically inactive compound. We have used electrodes modified with cobalt-phthalocyanine to monitor the decrease of GHS concentration at +300 mV. Our system is simple, does not require supplementary substrates such as 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) nor have disadvantageous competitive kinetics characteristic to inhibition like signals. Using the optimum concentration of 100 μM GSH we have obtained a linear calibration graph from 7 to 50 μM AA and a limit of detection of 5 μM AA. The method is not affected by interfering compounds usually found in foods and was applied for real sample analysis.
Solutions of sulphuric acid or oleum containing HCl or Cl2 and nitric acid have been found both to chlorinate and nitrate deactivated aromatic compounds. The kinetics and products of the chlorination of 1,3-dinitrobenzene and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in sulphuric acid or oleum containing HCl and nitric acid at 130 °C, and the kinetics and products of the chlorination of 2,4-dinitrotoluene at 90 °C in sulphuric acid or oleum containing Cl2 and nitric acid, are reported. 1,3-Dinitrobenzene and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene were predominantly chlorinated. 2,4-Dinitrotoluene gave approximately equal amounts of 6-chloro-2,4-dinitrotoluene and 2,4,6-trinitrotoluene. The results show that under these conditions, chlorination and nitration are competing electrophilic reactions, and that chlorination is less selective than nitration. Possible mechanisms for chlorination are discussed.
Formation of glutathione disulfide (GSSG) was used as an index of reactive oxygen generation in the isolated perfused liver of male Fischer rats during normoxia and hypoxia. Low oxygen tension may affect GSSG formation, rereduction, and transport mechanisms. The effect of short-term hypoxia (15 min) on the biliary and sinusoidal transport of GSSG was tested with the glutathione S-conjugates of sulfobromophthalein and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Hypoxia inhibited S-conjugate excretion through both pathways by 15-20%. tert-Butyl hydroperoxide (75 microM tBHP) or diquat (200 microM) in the perfusate increased hepatic GSSG release by 430 and 1,550%, respectively, and increased the tissue GSSG content by 47 and 124%, respectively, under normoxia. Hypoxia reduced the stimulated GSSG export by 38 (tBHP) and 83% (diquat) and also caused an additional increase of the tissue GSSG content by 112% during tBHP infusion but caused a reduction by 32% during diquat infusion. Inhibition of the biliary export of GSSG and S-conjugates is mainly compensated by the sinusoidal efflux. Therefore, it is concluded that hypoxia reduces GSSG formation predominantly through suppression of reactive oxygen formation with only marginal effects on the biliary and sinusoidal excretion mechanism. Thus hepatic GSSG formation is a sensitive indicator of oxidant stress during normoxia and hypoxia. Because single parameters may vary considerably, simultaneous monitoring of GSSG in bile, perfusate, and tissue is essential for qualitative and quantitative estimation of reactive oxygen formation.
Abstract The effects of in vivo administration of six hypolipidemic drugs on rat liver glutathione S - transferase activity were compared. This activity was measured with sulfobromophthalein (BSP), 1,2 dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB) or 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrate. Except for the nicotinic acid derivative ethanolamine oxiniacate, all the compounds tested significantly reduced it, whether or not they were related to clofibrate. The hepatic glutathione concentration either remained unchanged or only increased slightly after treatment with the various drugs. When measured, the maximal excretion rate of bile BSP dropped significantly, but not that of phenol-3,6-dibromophthalein (DBSP). Hepatic dye uptake and storage were not impaired. These results show that hypolipidemic drugs of the peroxisome proliferator type inhibit rat liver glutathione S -transferase activity and may reduce transport of anions conjugated with glutathione before excretion.
Abstract Extensive herbicide usage has led to the evolution of resistant weed populations that cause substantial crop yield losses and increase production costs. The multiple herbicide resistant (MHR) Avena fatua L. populations utilized in this study are resistant to members of all selective herbicide families, across five modes of action, available for A. fatua control in U.S. small grain production, and thus pose significant agronomic and economic threats. Resistance to ALS and ACCase inhibitors is not conferred by target site mutations, indicating that non-target site resistance mechanisms are involved. To investigate the potential involvement of glutathione-related enzymes in the MHR phenotype, we used a combination of proteomic, biochemical, and immunological approaches to compare their constitutive activities in herbicide susceptible (HS1 and HS2) and MHR (MHR3 and MHR4) A. fatua plants. Proteomic analysis identified three tau and one phi glutathione S -transferases (GSTs) present at higher levels in MHR compared to HS plants, while immunoassays revealed elevated levels of lambda, phi, and tau GSTs. GST specific activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was 1.2-fold higher in MHR4 than in HS1 plants and 1.3- and 1.2-fold higher in MHR3 than in HS1 and HS2 plants, respectively. However, GST specific activities towards fenoxaprop-P-ethyl and imazamethabenz-methyl were not different between untreated MHR and HS plants. Dehydroascorbate reductase specific activity was 1.4-fold higher in MHR than HS plants. Pretreatment with the GST inhibitor NBD-Cl did not affect MHR sensitivity to fenoxaprop-P-ethyl application, while the herbicide safener and GST inducer mefenpyr reduced the efficacy of low doses of fenoxaprop-P-ethyl on MHR4 but not MHR3 plants. Mefenpyr treatment also partially reduced the efficacy of thiencarbazone-methyl or mesosulfuron-methyl on MHR3 or MHR4 plants, respectively. Overall, the GSTs described here are not directly involved in enhanced rates of fenoxaprop-P-ethyl or imazamethabenz-methyl metabolism in MHR A. fatua . Instead, we propose that the constitutively elevated GST proteins and related enzymes in MHR plants are representative of a larger, more global suite of abiotic stress-related changes.
Glutathione transferases (GSTs) catalyze the nucleophilic attack of the thiolate of glutathione on a variety of noxious, often hydrophobic, electrophiles. The interactions responsible for the binding of glutathione have been deduced in great detail from the 3-dimensional structures that have been solved for three different GSTs, each a member of a distinct structural class. However, the interactions of the electrophilic substrates with these enzymes are still largely unexplored. The contribution of the active-site Met208 to aromatic and benzylic chloride substitution reactions catalyzed by human class Alpha GST A1-1 has been evaluated by comparison of wild-type enzyme with variants mutated in position 208. The results show that the amino acid residue at position 208 primarily affects the aromatic substitution reaction, tested with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate, possibly by interacting with the delocalized negative charge of the substituted ring structure in the transition state.
Cytosolic glutathione S-transferase (GSH transferase) activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was elevated approximately three to four-fold in intestine and liver of mummichog (Fundulus heteroclitus) collected from a creosote-contaminated site in the Elizabeth River, Virginia. Intestinal GSH transferase activity at the most heavily contaminated site, at a moderately contaminated site and at a relatively clean site averaged 3.64, 2.83 and 1.11µmoles/min/mg respectively, while values for liver at these sites averaged 2.84, 1.75 and 0.93µmoles/min/mg. In addition, densitometric tracings of sodium dodecylsulfate-polyacrylamide gels of intestine and liver cytosol revealed a similar trend in the staining intensity of a 25.8 kD protein band, which lies within the molecular weight range of GSH transferase subunits. Activity in putative preneoplastic and neoplastic hepatic lesions of fish collected from the creosote-contaminated site was not significantly different from that of adjacent normal tissue. In the laboratory, dietary betanaphthoflavone (ßNF) treatment resulted in a three-fold increase in intestinal GSH transferase. Hepatic GSH transferase activity in the same fish was not affected by dietary ßNF although hepatic monooxygenase activity, measured as ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase (EROD), was. The results of this study indicate a response of the intestinal detoxification system to environmental contaminants and supports previous studies on the importance of intestinal metabolism of foreign compounds. Further, our results indicate the trend towards elevated GSH transferase in liver of feral fish could not be attributed to a cancerous disease state in these fish but indicates chemical induction in this organ as well.
Danggui Buxue Tang (DBT) is a herbal decoction that has been used in Chinese medicine to enhance qi and blood circulation. Previously, we found that DBT can suppress allergy-related asthma in mice, leading us to hypothesize that DBT might ameliorate allergy disease. In this study, we evaluated whether DBT can attenuate atopic dermatitis (AD) symptoms and have an antiinflammatory effect on AD-like mice. The dorsal skin of female mice was shaved and sensitized cutaneously (skin smear) with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Mice were then given various doses of DBT from days 14 to 29 cutaneously. DBT treatment suppressed ear swelling and skin inflammation and decreased mast cell and eosinophil infiltration into skin and ear tissue. DBT also inhibited levels of IgE and Th2-associated cytokine levels in serum. These results demonstrate that cutaneous administration of DBT reduced the development of AD-like skin lesions in mice.
Short-chain aliphatic amines are presented widely in the aquatic environment due to their wide spread use in several industrial, chemical and manufacturing applications (1, 2) , Also; these amines are common components of biological systems as degradation products of organic materials such as amino acids and proteins. In addition to hygienic problems due to stinging smell, these compounds may be hazardous to human health as they are sensitizers and irritants to skin, eyes, mucus membranes and respiratory tract. Also; they can react with certain nitrogen-containing compounds to form nitrosamines, which are potentially carcinogenic substances (3) . The charge transfer (CT) complex formation reactions have been used in the spectrophotometric determination of amines as n-donor using various π-acceptors such as p-chloranil (4) (5) (6) , p-fluoranil (7) , p-bromanil (8) and 2,3-dichloro-5,6-dicyano-1,4-benzoquinone(DDQ) (9) . The reaction between 1-fluoro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (10) or 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (11) and aliphatic amines have also been studied. However; the above methods suffer from the selectivity for determination of primary aliphatic amines in the presence of other amines. The goal of this study is to develop of selective spectrophotometric method for the determination of some primary aliphatic amines in the presence of aromatic primary amines, secondary and tertiary amines and other excipients with a DClNQ reagent which does not require any derivatization or catalyst but simply and rapidly reacts and forms stable colored products in addition to application of the proposed method for the determination of ethanolamine in its pharmaceutical formulation.
Extensive herbicide usage has led to the evolution of resistant weed populations that cause substantial crop yield losses and increase production costs. The multiple herbicide resistant (MHR) Avena fatua L. populations utilized in this study are resistant to members of all selective herbicide families, across five modes of action, available for A. fatua control in U.S. small grain production, and thus pose significant agronomic and economic threats. Resistance to ALS and ACCase inhibitors is not conferred by target site mutations, indicating that non-target site resistance mechanisms are involved. To investigate the potential involvement of glutathione-related enzymes in the MHR phenotype, we used a combination of proteomic, biochemical, and immunological approaches to compare their constitutive activities in herbicide susceptible (HS1 and HS2) and MHR (MHR3 and MHR4) A. fatua plants. Proteomic analysis identified three tau and one phi glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) present at higher levels in MHR compared to HS plants, while immunoassays revealed elevated levels of lambda, phi, and tau GSTs. GST specific activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was 1.2-fold higher in MHR4 than in HS1 plants and 1.3-and 1.2-fold higher in MHR3 than in HS1 and HS2 plants, respectively. However, GST specific activities towards fenoxaprop-P-ethyl and imazamethabenz-methyl were not different between untreated MHR and HS plants. Dehydroascorbate reductase specific activity was 1.4-fold higher in MHR than HS plants. Pretreatment with the GST inhibitor NBD-Cl did not affect MHR sensitivity to fenoxaprop-P-ethyl application, while the herbicide safener and GST inducer mefenpyr reduced the efficacy of low doses of fenoxaprop-P-ethyl on MHR4 but not MHR3 plants. Mefenpyr treatment also partially reduced the efficacy of thiencarbazone-methyl or mesosulfuron-methyl on MHR3 or MHR4 plants, respectively. Overall, the GSTs described here are not directly involved in enhanced rates of fenoxaprop-P-ethyl or imazamethabenz-methyl metabolism in MHR A. fatua.Instead, we propose that the constitutively elevated GST proteins and related enzymes in MHR plants are representative of a larger, more global suite of abiotic stress-related changes.
Abstract : Glutathione S-transferase GST is a major phase II drug-metabolizing enzyme. Several isoforms of human GST as well as different GST genetic polymorphisms are known, but limited data exists concerning the relationship between GST polymorphisms and GST activity using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in human liver. To resolve this query, we analyzed the genetic polymorphisms of four main GST isoforms GST mu 1 GSTM1 , GST theta 1 GSTT1 , GST alpha 1 GSTA1 , GST pi 1 GSTP1
GSTM1 null gene deletion 5 , GSTT1 null gene deletion 6 , GSTA1 B 567T G 69C T 52G A 7 , and GSTP1 B exon 5, 313A G 8 are the major polymorphisms that affect GST activity. Zhou et al have reported that GSTM1 null formally known as GST-µ negative decreases GST activity when compared with GST-µ positive 9 . On the other hand, Arakawa et al have recently revealed that the GSTM1 null genotype does not alter GST activity 10 . GST plays an important role in the detoxification of many electrophilic compounds with reduced glutathione in the liver. Unfortunately, there is no reliable data on the relationship between GST variants and GST activity using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene CDNB as a substrate in the human liver.
Abstract Cytosolic glutathione transferases (GSTs) are a major reserve of high-capacity ligand binding proteins which recognise a large variety of hydrophobic compounds. In the present study, the binding of non-substrate xenobiotic compounds (herbicides and insecticides) to maize GST I was investigated by employing kinetic inhibition studies, site-directed mutagenesis and molecular modelling studies. The results showed that the xenobiotics bind at the substrate binding site. Based on in silico docking analysis, two residues were selected for assessing their contribution to xenobiotic binding. The mutant Gln53Ala of GST I Exhibits 9.2-fold higher inhibition potency for the insecticide malathion, compared to the wild-type enzyme. A potentiometric assay was developed for the determination of malathion using the Gln53Ala mutant enzyme. The assay explores the ability of the xenobiotic to promote inhibition of the GST-catalysing 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB)/glutathione (GSH) conjugation reaction. The sensing scheme is based on the pH change occurring in a low buffer system by the GST reaction, which is measured potentiometrically using a pH electrode. Calibration curve was obtained for malathion, with useful concentration range 0–20 μM. The method's reproducibility was in the order of ±3–5% and malathion recoveries were 96.7 ± 2.8%. Immobilized Gln53Ala mutant GST was used to assemble a biosensor for malathion. The enzyme was immobilized by crosslinking with glutaraldehyde and trapped behind a semipermeable membrane in front of the pH electrode. The results demonstrated that the immobilized enzyme behaved similar to free enzyme.
Summary The viable but nonculturable (VBNC) suppression mutant formed platable cells at low temperature stress after inoculation in artificial seawater (ASW). Suppression subtractive hybridization was used to identify differentially expressed genes among cDNAs of the VBNC suppression mutant and the wild-type Vibrio vulnificus strain. Glutathione S -transferase was identified as a responsive gene of the VBNC suppression mutant in our assay, and was highly expressed from the VBNC suppression mutant at low temperature stress. Culturability tests revealed that the wild-type cells were sensitive to oxidative stress in the hydrogen peroxide (H 2 O 2 ) and to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) compared with the VBNC suppression mutant cells. Adding glutathione showed that many wild-type V. vulnificus cells maintained culturability in cold ASW. These results suggest that non-nutritional growth inhibitors, such as peroxide that accumulates at low temperatures, influence VBNC in V. vulnificus cells.
The inducibility of hepatic cytosolic glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) was examined in brown bullheads, a freshwater fish that is highly susceptible to hepatic neoplasia following exposure to carcinogen-contaminated sediments. Juvenile bullheads were fed a semi-purified antioxidant-free diet supplemented with ethoxyquin (0.5% w/w dissolved in 3% corn oil), a prototypical rodent GST-inducing agent, twice daily for 14 days. Control bullheads received the antioxidant-free diet supplemented with corn oil (3% w/w). A significant increase (1.6-fold, p < or = 0.01) in hepatic cytosolic GST activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was observed in the ethoxyquin-treated bullheads relative to control fish. A trend toward increased GST-NBC activity was observed in the ethoxyquin-treated fish (1.2-fold, p = 0.06), whereas no treatment-related effects were observed on GST activities toward ethacrynic acid (ECA). In contrast, GST activity toward (+/-)-anti-benzo[a]pyrene-trans-7,8-dihydrodiol-9,10-epoxide (BPDE) was repressed in affinity-purified cytosolic fractions prepared from ethoxyquin-treated bullheads relative to control bullheads. Silver staining and densitometric analysis of isoelectric-focused, affinity-purified GST proteins revealed increased expression of two basic GST-like isoforms in ethoxyquin-treated fish. In summary, exposure to ethoxyquin increases brown bullhead GST-CDNB catalytic activity and hepatic cationic GST protein expression. However, the increase in overall GST-CDNB activity by ethoxyquin is associated with repression of GST-BPDE activity, suggesting differential effects on hepatic bullhead GST isoforms by ethoxyquin. The potential repression of bullhead GST isoforms that conjugate the carcinogenic metabolites of PAH metabolism under conditions of environmental chemical exposure could be a contributing factor in the sensitivity of bullheads to pollutant-associated neoplasia.
Depending on the reaction temperature, the reaction of 2,3-dihydro-3-thioxo-1,2,4-triazin-5(4H)-ones 1 with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and picryl chloride afforded 3-(2,4-dinitrophenylthio)-4,5-dihydro-6-phenyl-1,2,4-triazin-5(4H)-one (2) and 2-substituted 6,8-dinitro-3H-1,2,4-triazino[3,2-b]benzothiazol-3-ones 3.
Abstract In insects, glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) play essential roles in the detoxification of xenobiotic toxins and elimination of oxidative stress induced by toxic compounds. In the present study, a delta class GST gene (AiGSTd) was identified and characterized in the black cutworm, Agrotis ipsilon (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae). The deduced protein sequence of AiGSTd contained highly conserved features of GST enzymes and shared high identities with its orthologs from other lepidopteran species. Recombinant AiGSTD protein was expressed in Escherichia coli and purified. The protein displayed the GSH-dependent conjugating activity toward the substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). Moreover, AiGSTD had the ability to protect DNA from oxidative damage, and the E. coli cells overexpressing AiGSTD showed long-term resistance to oxidative stress. The AiGSTd transcripts were most abundant in the larval midgut. Exposure to chlorpyrifos and lambda-cyhalothrin increased lipid peroxidation in larvae and significantly upregulated AiGSTd expression levels. This study is the first report of molecular characterization of a GST in A. ipsilon, and the present study suggest that AiGSTD might be involved in protecting against the oxidative stress induced by insecticides.
Effects of diets on hepatic aflatoxin B1 (AFB1)- DNA binding and AFB1-induced glutathione S- transferase placental (GST-P) form positive hepatic foci have been examined in young male Fischer rats. Animals were fed either AIN-76A or Purina Chow (PC) diet for 1 wk before AFB1- DNA binding studies in vivo and in vitro. Animals were injected i.p. with AFB1 (1 mug/kg body wt) and 3 days later were given either AIN-76A or PC diet with or without 0.1% phenobarbital (PB) in their drinking water. All animals were sacrificed 10 wks after AFB1 dosing for analysis of AFB1-induced GST-P positive hepatic foci by immunochemistry. Two h after i.p. injection of AFB1, hepatic AFB1-DNA binding in AIN-76A fed rats was twice as much as those in PC fed animals without affecting GSH levels. There was no significant effect of diet on either cytochrome P-450 content, GSH levels or microsomal cytochrome P-450 mediated AFB1-DNA binding to exogenous DNA. There was a 40% increase in cytosolic GSH S-transferase activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as a substrate in PC fed animals compared to those given AIN- 76A diet. The number and area of AFB1-induced GST-P positive hepatic foci were twice and fivefold as much in AIN-76A fed compared to those in PC fed rats. The number of AFB1-induced GST-P positive foci was increased 5-10 fold in the presence of PB in both groups. In summary, the present data indicate that feeding of PC diet compared to AIN-76A diet inhibits the initiation phase whereas AIN-76A stimulates the promotion phase of AFB1 hepatocarcinogenesis in rats by inhibiting AFB1-DNA binding and increasing AFB1-induced hepatic foci respectively.
The occurrence of soluble glutathione S-transferase (GST) in the prostate of rat, guinea pig and rabbit is reported. With 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as the second substrate a specific activity of 59 nmol product/min/mg protein was found in the rat. A value of approx. 2 x and 25 x higher was found for guinea-pig and rabbit respectively. GST activity was also demonstrated with 3 other substrates. GST C was the most abundant CDNB-GST isoenzyme (76%) in rat prostate, followed by GST A (17%) and GST AA (7%), significant amounts of other isoenzymes not being found. The presence of GST in the prostate suggests that these enzymes may play a role in the metabolism and detoxification of electrophilic xenobiotics.
Sertraline (SER), a tricyclic antidepressant, is considered to belong to the group of selective amine reuptake inhibitors. Its ability to cross the blood–brain barrier and transplacental transport has been reported previously. It is widely distributed in the brain and is bound to human glutathione S-transferase-π (GST-π). If SER is taken during pregnancy, it gets accumulated in the embryo and fetus, and some studies have suggested it may cause congenital malformations, thus the study of the interaction of GST-π with antidepressants is crucial. In this study, the interaction of human placental GST-π with SER in the presence of the natural ligand, reduced glutathione (GSH) and a xenobiotic ligand, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was investigated. The Vm values obtained at variable [CDNB] and variable [GSH] were 61.3 ± 2.3 and 46.4 ± 1.7 U/mg protein, respectively. The kcat and kcat/Km values for GSH and CDNB were 3.63 × 106 s−1, 2.59 × 1010 M−1 s−1 and 4.79 × 106 s−1, 1.29 × 1010 M−1 s−1, respectively. T...
Glutathione transferase P1-1 (EC 2.5.1.18) is a dimeric enzyme composed of identical subunits each containing one binding site for GSH and a second for the co-substrate e.g. 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Steady-state kinetics are strictly hyperbolic toward both these substrates. Replacement of Cys-47 with alanine or serine decreases the affinity for GSH and triggers a positive kinetic cooperativity with respect to the substrate. Hill coefficients were 1.31 and 1.43 for the C47A and C47S mutants. C47A/C101S and C47S/C101S double mutants display lower affinity for GSH and higher Hill coefficients (1.57 and 1.56, respectively) when compared with C47A and C47S single mutants. Conversely, replacement of Cys-101 with alanine or serine does not yield any cooperativity and any marked change of kinetic parameters. Fluorometric experiments gave sigmoidal isothermic GSH binding curves for all the Cys-47 mutants, with Hill coefficients similar to that obtained by the kinetic approach. These data, together with the activation experiments performed in the presence of S-hexylglutathione, suggest that the substitution of Cys-47 yields a dimeric low-affinity enzyme which may be revealed by the lack of a peculiar electrostatic bond between the thiolate form of Cys-47 and the protonated amino group of Lys-54.
Through the inhibition of monoamine oxidase type B (MAO-B), (-)-deprenyl (selegiline) prevents the conversion of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) to the toxic metabolite 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP+) and also prevents the neurotoxicity in the dopaminergic neurons in animal models. Cumulative observations suggest that selegiline may also protect against MPP+-induced neurotoxicity, possibly through the induction of pro-survival genes. We have observed that thioredoxin (Trx) mediates the induction of mitochondrial manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) and Bcl-2 during preconditioning-induced hormesis. We therefore investigated whether the redox protein Trx plays any role in the neuroprotective mechanism of selegiline against MPP+-induced cytotoxicity in human SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells and also in primary neuronal cultures of mouse midbrain dopaminergic neurons. After confirming that selegiline protects against MPP+-induced cytotoxicity, we observed further that selegiline, at 1 μM or less, induced Trx for protection against oxidative injury caused by MPP+. The induction of Trx was blocked by protein kinase A (PKA) inhibitor and mediated by a PKA-sensitive phospho-activation of mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase Erk1/2 and the transcription factor c-Myc. Selegiline-induced Trx and associated neuroprotection were concomitantly blocked by the antisense against Trx mRNA, but not the sense or antisense mutant phosphothionate oligonucleotides, not only in human SH-SY5Y cells but also in mouse primary neuronal culture of midbrain dopaminergic neurons. Furthermore, the redox cycling of Trx may mediate the protective action of selegiline because the inhibition of Trx reductase by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene ameliorated the effect of selegiline. Trx (1 μM) consistently increased the expression of mitochondrial proteins MnSOD and Bcl-2, supporting cell survival (Andoh et al., 2002). In conclusion, without modifying MAO-B activity, selegiline augments the gene induction of Trx, leading to elevated expression of antioxidative MnSOD and antiapoptotic Bcl-2 proteins for protecting against MPP+-induced neurotoxicity.
The glutathione S-transferases from the porina moth, Wiseanna cervinata, were purified by affinity chromatography, cation-exchange chromatography and preparative isoelectrofocusing. The major transferase (IV) was purified to homogeneity by a factor of 530-fold with a yield of 83%. Other transferases present were purified to a smaller degree (approx. 50-fold) to a stage of near-homogeneity. The transferases examined all had Mr values about 45 000-50 000. They appeared to be homodimers of either of two types of subunit, of Mr 22 800 and 24 600. Enzymes consisting of the different types of subunit were not immunologically cross-reactive. The major enzyme fractions separated by cation-exchange chromatography were both active with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, ethacrynic acid and iodomethane, but were inactive with 4-nitropyridine N-oxide, 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)propane, bromosulphophthalein and p-nitrobenzyl chloride. The kinetics of the enzyme-catalysed reaction with enzyme IV were non-Michaelean with respect to both substrates. Both products were inhibitory. The results appear to be compatible with a random steady-state mechanism. It is concluded that these enzymes are very similar, in their physical and chemical constitution, in their catalytic properties and in their relationships with each other, to those enzymes that have been isolated from vertebrate organisms.
During allergic and irritant contact dermatitis in guinea pigs produced by application of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and croton oils, respectively, the white cells of the peripheral blood were counte
Mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) play an important role in both physiological cell signaling processes and numerous pathological states, including neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson disease. While mitochondria are considered the major cellular source of ROS, their role in ROS removal remains largely unknown. Using polarographic methods for real-time detection of steady-state H2O2 levels, we were able to quantitatively measure the contributions of potential systems toward H2O2 removal by brain mitochondria. Isolated rat brain mitochondria showed significant rates of exogenous H2O2 removal (9–12 nmol/min/mg of protein) in the presence of substrates, indicating a respiration-dependent process. Glutathione systems showed only minimal contributions: 25% decrease with glutathione reductase inhibition and no effect by glutathione peroxidase inhibition. In contrast, inhibitors of thioredoxin reductase, including auranofin and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, attenuated H2O2 removal rates in mitochondria by 80%. Furthermore, a 50% decrease in H2O2 removal was observed following oxidation of peroxiredoxin. Differential oxidation of glutathione or thioredoxin proteins by copper (II) or arsenite, respectively, provided further support for the thioredoxin/peroxiredoxin system as the major contributor to mitochondrial H2O2 removal. Inhibition of the thioredoxin system exacerbated mitochondrial H2O2 production by the redox cycling agent, paraquat. Additionally, decreases in H2O2 removal were observed in intact dopaminergic neurons with thioredoxin reductase inhibition, implicating this mechanism in whole cell systems. Therefore, in addition to their recognized role in ROS production, mitochondria also remove ROS. These findings implicate respiration- and thioredoxin-dependent ROS removal as a potentially important mitochondrial function that may contribute to physiological and pathological processes in the brain.
Blastoschizomyces capitatus is an uncommon, opportunistic pathogenic fungus, which causes invasive and disseminated infections. This microorganism is normally present in both environmental and normal human flora. Within a host, B. capitatus is able to grow in both unicellular yeast and multicellular filamentous growth forms. In this study, we obtained in vitro morphological conversion of B. capitatus from yeast-to-mycelial phase to investigate the presence and expression of glutathione transferase (GST) enzymes in both cell forms. A protein with GST activity using the model substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was detected in both morphologies and identified by tandem mass spectrometry as a eukaryotic elongation factor 1Bγ (eEF1Bγ) protein, a member of the GST superfamily. No significant difference in GST-specific activity and kinetic constants were observed between mycelial and yeast forms, indicating that eEF1Bγ protein did not show differential expression between the two phases.
Inhibition of the enzyme activity of glutathione S-transferase (GST) by a physiological concentration of bilirubin was studied using various substrates. When rat liver cytosol was used as an unfractionated GST, its GSH-conjugation activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was decreased to one-half by bilirubin, while the activity toward 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, p-nitrobenzyl chloride, or 1,2-epoxy-(p-nitrophenoxy)propane and also the non-selenium dependent GSH-peroxidase activity toward cumene hydroperoxide (CHPx activity) were hardly affected under the same conditions. In contrast, bilirubin inhibited each of the purified GST isozymes and no remarkable difference in bilirubin inhibition was observed with any of the substrates tested. From the chromatographic analysis of the cytosol incubated with [3H]bilirubin, it was found that a major part of the added bilirubin binds to subunit 1 (Ya) of GST isozyme, leaving not only the conjugation activity derived from 3-4 type GST but also the CHPx activity of subunit 2 (Yc) quantitatively intact. The bilirubin inhibition of both the conjugation activity of GST 3-4 and the CHPx activity of GST 2-2 was prevented almost completely by addition of a 3-fold molar excess of GST 1-1. From these results, it was assumed that the enzyme activities of both 3-4 type GSTs and subunit 2 (Yc) were protected from the inhibitory action of bilirubin by the scavenger effect of subunit 1 (Ya).
Rat liver parenchymal cells (PC) were isolated by EDTA perfusion and were purified by a subsequent Percoll centrifugation. The isolated PC had a viability of 95%, as judged by trypan blue exclusion. Freshly isolated PC were cryopreserved with an optimized protocol in a computer-controlled freezer. After thawing, the PC still retained a viability of 89%. The activities of representative xenobiotic metabolizing enzymes were compared between freshly isolated and cryopreserved PC after thawing. The cytochrome P450 content and the cytochrome P450 2C11 isoenzyme activity, determined by hydroxylation of testosterone in intact cells, were not affected by the cryopreservation. The following phase II enzyme activities were also well maintained after cryopreservation: Phenol sulfotransferase (92%), 1-naphthol UDP-glucuronosyl transferase (95%), soluble epoxide hydrolase (87%), and glutathione S-transferase (88%), determined with broad spectrum substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. However, there was a significant decrease in plating efficiency between freshly isolated (86%) and cryopreserved (57%) PC when they were cultured. The initial quality of the freshly isolated PC is decisive for the success of cryopreservation. These results support the use of cryopreserved PC in pharmacology and toxicology with the aim to reduce the number of experimental animals used.
The inducibility of hepatic cytosolic glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) was examined in brown bullheads, a freshwater fish that is highly susceptible to hepatic neoplasia following exposure to carcinogen-contaminated sediments. Juvenile bullheads were fed a semi-purified antioxidant-free diet supplemented with ethoxyquin (0.5% w/w dissolved in 3% corn oil), a prototypical rodent GSTinducing agent, twice daily for 14 days. Control bullheads received the antioxidant-free diet supplemented with corn oil (3% w/w). A significant increase (1.6-fold, p < 0.01) in hepatic cytosolic GST activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was observed in the ethoxyquin-treated bullheads relative to control fish. A trend toward increased GST-NBC activity was observed in the ethoxyquin-treated fish (1.2-fold, p ‫؍‬ 0.06), whereas no treatmentrelated effects were observed on GST activities toward ethacrynic acid (ECA). In contrast, GST activity toward (؎)-anti-benzo-[a]pyrene-trans-7,8-dihydrodiol-9,10-epoxide (BPDE) was repressed in affinity-purified cytosolic fractions prepared from ethoxyquin-treated bullheads relative to control bullheads. Silver staining and densitometric analysis of isoelectric-focused, affinitypurified GST proteins revealed increased expression of two basic GST-like isoforms in ethoxyquin-treated fish. In summary, exposure to ethoxyquin increases brown bullhead GST-CDNB catalytic activity and hepatic cationic GST protein expression. However, the increase in overall GST-CDNB activity by ethoxyquin is associated with repression of GST-BPDE activity, suggesting differential effects on hepatic bullhead GST isoforms by ethoxyquin. The potential repression of bullhead GST isoforms that conjugate the carcinogenic metabolites of PAH metabolism under conditions of environmental chemical exposure could be a contributing factor in the sensitivity of bullheads to pollutant-associated neoplasia.
Currently, relatively little is known regarding the inducibility of hepatic GST activity in fish. Several studies have reported increased fish GST activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (GST-CDNB activity) following exposure to inducing agents in the laboratory (Celander et al., 1993; Leaver et al., 1992; Petrivalsky et al., 1997) or in fish inhabiting polluted environments (Otto and Moon, 1996; Van Veld et al., 1991) . Typically, a modest induction (2-fold or less) of overall GST-CDNB activity is observed under these conditions. However, studies of GST-CDNB activities in fish may be complicated by variations in diet, water temperature, gender, and reproductive cycling (McFarland et al., 1999; Swain and Melius, 1984; Vigano et al., 1993). Furthermore, GST-CDNB activity represents an integration of the activity of multiple isoforms and treatment effects on GST isoforms may not always be distin- guishable by analysis of GST-CDNB activity. The importance in ascertaining effects of inducing agents on multiple fish GST isoforms is underscored by the fact that selective modulation of those GST isoforms with high specific activity toward environmental toxicants or their metabolites may be missed if GST-CDNB activity is the only endpoint. Ultimately, modulation of key GST isoforms that contribute to the conjugation of environmental agents or their metabolites will be the critical determinants of chemical susceptibility.
Chemicals. Ethoxyquin (6-ethoxy-1,2-dihydro-2,2,4-trimethylquinoline), 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), ethacrynic acid (ECA), 4-nitrobenzyl chloride (NBC), reduced glutathione (GSH), dithiothreitol (DTT), phenyl methyl sulfonamide (PMSF), Coomassie brilliant blue R-250, bicinchoninic acid, and bovine serum albumin were obtained from Sigma Chemical Co. (St. Louis, MO). Racemic (Ϯ)-anti-benzo[a]pyrene-trans-7,8-dihydrodiol-9,10-epoxide (BPDE) was purchased from the National Cancer Institute Chemical Carcinogen Reference Standard Repository (Bethesda, MD). Acrylamide, N, N, NЈ, NЈ-tetra-methyl-ethylenediamine (TEMED), and ammonium persulfate were obtained from Bio-Rad Laboratories (Hercules, CA). Other reagents were purchased from Fisher Scientific (Pittsburgh, PA) and were of reagent grade quality or better.
The substrates 7-ethoxycoumarin, 7-ethoxyresorufin, 7-pentoxyresorufin, 7-benzyloxyresorufin, resorufin and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene are some of the model compounds used to investigate the kinetics of phase I and II reactions in fish. These substrates help to characterize the catalytic activity of various isoforms of phase I and II enzymes. The O-deethylation of 7 ethoxyresorufin (EROD activity) is a model reaction used to study the expression of CYP1A, an inducible cytochrome P450 isoform in fish (Whyte et al., 2000) . Other substrates and their respective phase I activities are used as model compounds as well (e.g. 7-ethoxycoumarin -ECOD-, 7-pentoxyresoroufin -PROD -, 7-benzyloxyresoroufin -BROD -); however, the isoforms involved in such activities are either not determined yet in all fish species or represent the expression of different P450 isoforms depending on the species. Resorufin is a phase I metabolite obtained after EROD, that is used as substrate for phase II reactions such as glucuronidation and sulfation (George, 1994 ). Glutathione-s-transferase activity, an important phase II activity performed to conjugate electrophilic compounds, is commonly assessed using reference substrates such as 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) (Habig et al., 1974; George, 1994) .
Through the inhibition of monoamine oxidase type B (MAO-B), (Ϫ)-deprenyl (selegiline) prevents the conversion of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) to the toxic metabolite 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP ϩ ) and also prevents the neurotoxicity in the dopaminergic neurons in animal models. Cumulative observations suggest that selegiline may also protect against MPP ϩ -induced neurotoxicity, possibly through the induction of pro-survival genes. We have observed that thioredoxin (Trx) mediates the induction of mitochondrial manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) and Bcl-2 during preconditioning-induced hormesis. We therefore investigated whether the redox protein Trx plays any role in the neuroprotective mechanism of selegiline against MPP ϩ -induced cytotoxicity in human SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells and also in primary neuronal cultures of mouse midbrain dopaminergic neurons. After confirming that selegiline protects against MPP ϩ -induced cytotoxicity, we observed further that selegiline, at 1 M or less, induced Trx for protection against oxidative injury caused by MPP ϩ . The induction of Trx was blocked by protein kinase A (PKA) inhibitor and mediated by a PKAsensitive phospho-activation of mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase Erk1/2 and the transcription factor c-Myc. Selegiline-induced Trx and associated neuroprotection were concomitantly blocked by the antisense against Trx mRNA, but not the sense or antisense mutant phosphothionate oligonucleotides, not only in human SH-SY5Y cells but also in mouse primary neuronal culture of midbrain dopaminergic neurons. Furthermore, the redox cycling of Trx may mediate the protective action of selegiline because the inhibition of Trx reductase by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene ameliorated the effect of selegiline. Trx (1 M) consistently increased the expression of mitochondrial proteins MnSOD and Bcl-2, supporting cell survival (Andoh et al., 2002) . In conclusion, without modifying MAO-B activity, selegiline augments the gene induction of Trx, leading to elevated expression of antioxidative MnSOD and antiapoptotic Bcl-2 proteins for protecting against MPP ϩ -induced neurotoxicity.
ABBREVIATIONS: MAO-B, monoamine oxidase type B; MPP ϩ , 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion; MPTP, 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine; Trx, thioredoxin; SOD, superoxide dismutase; DNCB, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene; H-89, N-[2-(4-bromocinnamylamino)ethyl]-5-isoquinoline; MEK, mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase; MAP, mitogen-activated protein; MAPK, mitogen-activated protein kinase; Erk, extracellular signal-regulated kinase; PKA, protein kinase A; PKC, protein kinase C; BIM, bisindolylmaleimide; AP-1, activator protein 1.
1. The glutathione S-transferases from the porina moth, Wiseana cervinata, were purified by affinity chromatography, cation-exchange chromatography and preparative isoelectrofocusing. The major transferase (IV) was purified to homogeneity by a factor of 530-fold with a yield of 83%. Other transferases present were purified to a smaller degree (approx. 50-fold) to a stage of near-homogeneity. 2. The transferases examined all had Mr values about 45000-50000. They appeared to be homodimers of either of two types of subunit, of M, 22 800 and 24 600. Enzymes consisting of the different types of subunit were not immunologically cross-reactive. 3. The major enzyme fractions separated by cation-exchange chromatography were both active with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, ethacrynic acid and iodomethane, but were inactive with 4-nitropyridine N-oxide, 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)propane, bromosulphophthalein and p-nitrobenzyl chloride. 4. The kinetics of the enzymecatalysed reaction with enzyme IV were non-Michaelean with respect to both substrates. Both products were inhibitory. The results appear to be compatible with a random steady-state mechanism. 5. It is concluded that these enzymes are very similar, in their physical and chemical constitution, in their catalytic properties and in their relationships with each other, to those enzymes that have been isolated from vertebrate organisms.
Abstract A hydrogen peroxide (H 2 O 2 ) electrode was used to continuously monitor H 2 O 2 concentrations in vitro in a system designed to determine some of the factors which influence cellular H 2 O 2 production and reduction. 1-Chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), a clinical and analytical agent, was found to alter electron transport in Ehrlich ascites tumor cells (EATC), causing formation of H 2 O 2 . H 2 O 2 accumulation in the cell suspension began after an initial lag period required for glutathione (GSH) depletion. N -Ethylmaleiraide (NEM), which removes thiols, shortened the lag period but did not alter the rate at which H 2 O 2 accumulated. H 2 O 2 accumulation was influenced by glucose and drug concentrations and glucose was important in determining the total amount of H 2 O 2 that eventually accumulated. The metabolic reduction of exogenously added H 2 O 2 in the absence of CDNB was stimulated by glucose, unaffected by azide (a catalase inhibitor), and inhibited by NEM. The data show that glutathione peroxidase is chiefly responsible for inactivating intracellularly produced H 2 O 2 and that at least three mechanisms may operate to remove glutathione in CDNB-treated cells. The findings imply that artificially low levels of GSH may be found when CDNB is used as an analytical reagent in whole cells and that topical use of CDNB may pose a genetic health hazard.
: Upon intraperitoneal administrationof N-(1-14C)-acetylpenicillamine (NAPA) to rats, at a dose of 1-2 mmol/ kg body weight, a 14C-labelled metabolite of NAPA together with unchanged NAPA were excreted in bile. The NAPA metabolite was characterized by acid hydrolysis and thin-layer chromatography. Rats previously depleted of liver glutathione by intraperitoneal injection of cyclohexene oxide. 2.5 mmol/kg body weight, were given intraperitoneal injections of 14C-cysteine, 0.5mmol/kg, or14C-NAPA, 1-2 mmol/kg, together with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNB), 1 mmol/kg, or bromo-sulphophtalein (BSP), 0.5 mmol/kg body weight. Simultaneous administration of 14C-cysteine and DNB or BSP lead to rapid incorporation of 14C-activity in glutathione and glutathione conjugates of DNB and BSP being excreted in bile. Upon simultaneous administration of 14C-NAPA and DNB or BSP, 14C-labelled metabolite of NAPA not conjugated to DNB or BSP, and unchanged NAPA, together with non-labelled glutathione conjugates of DNB or BSP, were excreted in bile. This is interpreted as indicating that neither NAPA nor NAPA metabolite are capable of forming conjugates of DNB or BSP in rat liver.
The glutathione thiol/disulfide couple is the major redox buffer in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER); however, mechanisms by which it contributes to the tightly regulated redox environment of this intracellular organelle are poorly understood. The recent development of genetically encoded, ratiometric, single green fluorescent protein-based redox-sensitive (roGFP) sensors adjusted for more oxidative environments enables non-invasive measurement of the ER redox environment in living cells. In turn, Forster resonance energy transfer (FRET) sensors based on two fluorophore probes represent an alternative strategy for ratiometric signal acquisition. In previous work, we described the FRET-based redox sensor CY-RL7 with a relatively high midpoint redox potential of −143 mV, which is required for monitoring glutathione potentials in the comparatively high oxidative environment of the ER. Here, the efficacy of the CY-RL7 probe was ascertained in the cytosol and ER of live cells with fluorescence microscopy and flow cytometry. The sensor was found to be fully reduced at steady state in the cytosol and became fully oxidized in response to treatment with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, a depletor of reduced glutathione (GSH). In contrast, the probe was strongly oxidized (88%) upon expression in the ER of cultured cells. We also examined the responsiveness of the ER sensor to perturbations in cellular glutathione homeostasis. We observed that the reductive level of the FRET sensor was increased two-fold to about 28% in cells pretreated with N-acetylcysteine, a substrate for GSH synthesis. Finally, we evaluated the responsiveness of CY-RL7 and roGFP1-iL to various perturbations of cellular glutathione homeostasis to address the divergence in the specificity of these two probes. Together, the present data generated with genetically encoded green fluorescent protein (GFP)-based glutathione probes highlight the complexity of the ER redox environment and indicate that the ER glutathione pool may be more oxidized than is currently considered.
: An enzyme that possesses glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity was found in the fall webworm, Hyphantria cunea. The enzyme was purified to homogeneity for the first time by ammonium sulphate fractionation and affinity chromatography. The N-terminal sequence of the purified protein was similar to those of Sigma-class GSTs. The purified GST retained more than 75% of its original GST activity after incubation at pH 5–8. Incubation for 30 min at temperatures below 50°C scarcely affected the activity. The enzyme was able to catalyse the reaction of glutathione with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, a universal substrate for GST, as well as with 4-hydroxynonenal, a product of lipid peroxidation.
Abstract The role of shoot and root glutathione (GSH) content and glutathione S -transferase (GST) activity in the response of the ‘A632 × A635’ and ‘Anjou SC256’ hybrids of maize ( Zea mays L.) and of ‘Jubilejnaja 50’ wheat ( Triticum aestivum L.) to the chloroacetanilide herbicide acetochlor was evaluated. The concentrations of root-applied acetochlor causing a 50% inhibition of plant shoot height were 20 μ M for the tolerant ‘A632 × A635’ maize, 1 μ M for the sensitive ‘Anjou SC256’ maize, and 0.1 μ M for the very sensitive ‘Jubilejnaja 50’ wheat. The nonprotein thiol (mainly GSH) level in the roots of the tolerant ‘A632 × A635’ maize hybrid was 2-fold greater than that found in the roots of the sensitive maize hybrid and of wheat. Pretreatment with 10 μ M of acetochlor induced the root nonprotein thiol levels of all three genotypes. The highest induction of root thiol content compared to controls was observed at 48 hr after acetochlor treatment and was 2.23-fold in the tolerant maize and 1.72-fold for the sensitive wheat. GST activities of etiolated maize and wheat seedlings were evaluated using both CDNB (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene) and [ 14 C]-acetochlor as substrates. GST (CDNB) activity was greater in the roots than in the shoots of both maize hybrids. The shoot GST (CDNB) activity of both maize genotypes was similar, but the tolerant ‘A632 × A635’ maize had slightly higher root GST (CDNB) activity. In the sensitive wheat, similar shoot and root GST (CDNB) activities were observed. GST (CDNB) activity in roots of the maize hybrids and of wheat was enhanced by 70–100% at 48 hr after pretreatment with 10 μ M of acetochlor. Shoot GST (CDNB) activity of maize or wheat was not induced significantly by acetochlor pretreatment. Root and shoot GST (acetochlor) activities of the maize hybrids and wheat were much lower than GST (CDNB) activities. Root GST (acetochlor) activities of the two maize hybrids were greater and more inducible by acetochlor pretreatment than those of the sensitive wheat. These results demonstrate the important role of endogenous levels of GSH and of GST activity in chloroacetanilide herbicide detoxication and selectivity.
Drosophila melanogaster glutathione S-transferase DmGSTS1-1 (earlier designated as GST-2) is related to sigma class GSTs and was previously described as an indirect flight muscle-associated protein with no known catalytic properties. We now report that DmGSTS1-1 isolated from Drosophila or expressed in Escherichia coli is essentially inactive toward the commonly used synthetic substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), but has relatively high glutathione-conjugating activity for 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE), an electrophilic aldehyde derived from lipid peroxidation. 4-HNE is thought to have signaling functions and, at higher concentrations, has been shown to be cytotoxic and involved in the etiology of various degenerative diseases. Drosophila strains carrying P-element insertions in the GstS1 gene have a reduced capacity for glutathione conjugation of 4-HNE. In flies with both, one, or none of the GstS1 alleles disrupted by P-element insertion, there is a linear correlation between DmGSTS1-1 protein content and 4-HNE-conjugating activity. This correlation indicates that in adult Drosophila 70 +/- 6% of the capacity to conjugate 4-HNE is attributable to DmGSTS1-1. The high abundance of DmGSTS1-1 (approximately 2% of the soluble protein in adult flies) and its previously reported localization in tissues that are either highly aerobic (indirect flight muscle) or especially sensitive to oxidative damage (neuronal tissue) suggest that the enzyme may have a protective role against deleterious effects of oxidative stress. Such function in insects would be analogous to that carried out in mammals by specialized alpha class glutathione S-transferases (e.g. GSTA4-4). The independent emergence of 4-HNE-conjugating activity in more than one branch of the glutathione S-transferase superfamily suggests that 4-HNE catabolism may be essential for aerobic life.
A soluble glutathione S-transferase isoenzyme, designated SmGST-4 was purified to apparent homogeneity in a single step from the cytosol of adult Schistosoma mansoni by selective elution of the enzyme from a glutathione-agarose affinity column using glutathione disulfide. SmGST-4, which comprised about 5% of the bound glutathione S-transferase activity, could be distinguished from the previously characterized glutathione S-transferase isoenzyme family (SmGST-1/2/3), by its unique chromatographic behavior, lower subunit M(r) (26,000), differences in substrate specificity and inhibitor sensitivity, and a lack of reactivity with antiserum to SmGST-3. The purified isoenzyme catalyzed the conjugation of several model xenobiotics including 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, ethacrynic acid, and trans-4-phenyl-3-buten-2-one. Like the SmGST-1/2/3 isoenzyme family, SmGST-4 failed to catalyze the conjugation of a model epoxide substrate, 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)propane. Because glutathione S-transferases from other organisms play a role in protecting cells against the toxic products of lipid peroxidation, SmGST-4 and the members of the SmGST-1/2/3 isoenzyme family were tested for their capacity to reduce cumene hydroperoxide and to catalyze the conjugation of 4-hydroxyalk-2-enals. Although all four isoenzymes catalyzed both reactions, the specific activity of SmGST-1, SmGST-2, and SmGST-3 toward cumene hydroperoxide was at least 10-fold greater than that of SmGST-4. In contrast, the latter more effectively conjugated a homologous series of 4-hydroxyalk-2-enal isomers.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Abstract The reversible and irreversible inhibition of glutathione S -transferases (GST) by caffeic acid [3-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)-2-propenoic acid] was studied in vitro using purified rat isoenzymes, and in vivo in male Wistar (WU) rats. The concentrations of caffeic acid that inhibited reversibly 50% of the activity of different GST isoenzymes towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) (I 50 values) were 58 (GST 4-4), 360 (GST 3-3) and 470 μ m (GST 7-7), and higher than 640 μ m for GST isoenzymes of the α class (GST 1-1 and 2-2). The major glutathione conjugate of caffeic acid, 2- S -glutathionylcaffeic acid (2-GSCA), was a much more potent reversible inhibitor of GST, with I 50 values of 7.1 (GST 3-3), 13 (GST 1-1), 26 (GST 4-4), 36 (GST 7-7) and more than 125 μ m (GST 2-2). On the other hand, caffeic acid was a much more efficient irreversible inhibitor of GST than 2-GSCA. In this respect, GST 7-7 was by far the most sensitive enzyme. The remaining activity towards CDNB (expressed as percentage of control) after incubating 1.25 μ m -GST with 100 μ m -caffeic acid for 6 hr at 37°C was 34 (GST 2-2), 24 (GST 1-1), 23 (GST 4-4), 10 (GST 3-3) and 5% (GST 7-7). Almost no irreversible inhibition of GST 1-1 and 3-3 occurred during incubation with 2-GSCA. Incubation of caffeic acid with liver microsomes from dexamethasone-induced rats catalysed the oxidation of caffeic acid about 18 times more effectively as compared with the spontaneous oxidation, as determined by the formation of GSH conjugates from caffeic acid. In vivo , the effect of single oral doses of caffeic acid (50–500 mg/kg body weight) on the cytosolic GST activity towards CDNB was studied 18 hr after dosing in the liver, kidney and intestinal mucosa. A marginal but significant linear relationship was found between the amount of caffeic acid dosed and the irreversible inhibition of GST activity in the liver, with a maximum of about 14% inhibition in the highest dose group. This inhibition coincided with a small decrease in the μ-class GST subunits, which was only significant for GST subunit 4.
Abstract Ethnopharmacological relevance Huang-Lian-Jie-Du Decoction (HLJDD), is a well-known traditional Chinese herbal formula first written in the Tang dynasty. In Chinese medicine practice, HLJDD is commonly prescribed to treat various inflammatory skin diseases, such as atopic dermatitis (AD) and psoriasis. Aim of the study The present study aimed at investigating the therapeutic effect of HLJDD extract (HLJDE) and to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms of action in the 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB)-induced AD-like mice. Materials and methods Female Balb/c mice were sensitized with DNCB for three days. After sensitization, mice were challenged with DNCB every three days and orally administrated with HLJDE (150, 300 and 600 mg/kg) daily from day 14 to day 29 for consecutive 16 days. At the end of experiment, the clinical AD scores of the mice were calculated to evaluate the therapeutic effect of HLJDE, and serum, ears and dorsal skin of the mice were collected for unravelling molecular mechanisms. Results HLJDE significantly reduced the clinical symptoms in the AD-like mice by inhibiting eosinophil and mast cell infiltration, suppressing the production of Th2-associated cytokine (IL-4) and pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α). In addition, HLJDE significantly suppressed the NF-κB and MAPKs pathways. Moreover, HLJDE was able to accentuate filaggrin expression in the skin lesion when compared to the sensitized mouse without treatment. Conclusion HLJDE significantly improved the AD-like symptoms on the DNCB-sensitized mice through mitigating the production of inflammatory mediators via suppressing MAPKs and NF-κB pathways. Additionally, the elevated expression of filaggrin in the skin lesion by HLJDE contributes to the recovery of dysfunctional skin barrier on the DNCB-sensitized mice.
Tert-butyl 2,2-bis(2,4-dinitrophenyl)ethanoate was prepared from the ethanolic solution of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, tert-butyl 3-oxobutanoate and triethylamine. Acetyl group in tert-butyl 3-oxobutanoate has cleaved off during the formation of the title molecule. UV-VIS, IR, 1H NMR, 13C NMR, Proton-Proton COSY data and single crystal XRD results support the proposed structure. Flammability test, impact sensitivity test and TG/DTA studies at different heating rates on the synthesized molecule imply that it is an insensitive high energy density material.
Glutathione S-transferase activity has been shown to be associated with the microsomal fraction of Taenia solium. Electron microscopy and subcellular enzyme markers indicate the purity of the microsomal fraction that contains the glutathione S-transferase activity. T. solium microsomes were solubilized under conditions used to solubilize integral microsomal proteins. This procedure proved necessary to obtain enzymatic activity. To characterize this parasite enzyme activity, several substrates and inhibitors were used. The optimum activity for microsomal glutathione S-transferase was found to be pH 6.6, with a specific enzyme activity of 0.9, 0.1, 0.067, 0.03, and 0.05 μmol min−1 mg−1 with the substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, 4-hydroxynonenal, 2,4-hexadienal, and trans-2-nonenal, respectively. No activity of glutathione peroxidase was observed. T. solium microsomes had an app K m (GSH) = 0.161 μM, app K m (CDNB) = 14.5 μM, and app V max of 0.15 and 27.9 μmol min−1 mg−1 for GSH and CDNB, respectively. T. solium microsomes were inhibited by several glutathione S-transferase enzyme inhibitors, and it was possible to establish a simple inhibition system as well as corresponding K i ’s for each inhibitor. These results indicate that the T. solium microsomal glutathione S-transferase is different from the parasite cytoplasmic enzymes that catalyze similar reactions.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) play central roles in phase II detoxification of both xenobiotics (drugs, insecticides, and herbicides) and endogenous compounds in almost all living organisms. In this study, we successfully purified the GSTs from the citrus red mite, Panonychus citri, by affinity chromatography on Glutathione Sepharose 4B and compared the biochemical characterizations of the purified GSTs from three field populations [beibei (BB), wanzhou (WZ), and zhongxian (ZX)]. SDS-PAGE revealed that the molecular weight of GSTs from three populations consisted of two subunits of 27.3 and 26.1 kDa. The specific activity of the purified GSTs from the WZ and ZX populations was increased 1.5- and 3.8-fold, respectively, compared with the BB population. Accordingly, the pyridaben susceptibility of WZ and ZX populations was less compared with BB population. Kinetic analyses showed that the WZ and ZX populations had higher substrate specificity compared with the BB population based on the values of k (cat) and k (cat) /K (m) to both reduced glutathione (GSH) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). The in vitro inhibition studies of GSTs indicated that the I (50) values of pyridaben from WZ and ZX populations of P. citri expressed 1.6- and 4.4-fold decreases, respectively, compared to the I (50) value of pyridaben from the BB population. In conclusion, all evidence suggested that the purified GSTs may partially contribute to the susceptibility of acaricide pyridaben in field populations of P. citri.
Glutathione transferases (GSTs) are known as promiscuous enzymes capable of catalyzing the conjugation of glutathione with a broad range of electrophilic substrates. A previous study based on recombinant chimeras derived from human GST M1-1 and GST M2-2 demonstrated the formation of a subset of F1 generation GSTs, which had lost high activity with substrates distinguishing parental enzymes. In the present study, the members of this subset were recombined by DNA shuffling to produce an F2 generation of GSTs. Screening of 930 bacterial clones demonstrated that 83% of recombinant enzyme variants were active with at least one of three alternative substrates: phenethyl isothiocyanate (PEITC), 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, or p-nitrophenyl acetate. The majority had similar low activity as the parental GSTs in the F1 generation. However, 17 novel enzymes displayed high activity with PEITC. Half of these enzymes were similar to GST M1-1, which also has high activity with the same substrate, and all of these GSTs featured Tyr116/Ser210 in the active site. This group of F2 variants apparently had reverted to the GST M1-1 type. A second group of F2 variants with high PEITC activity was characterized by His116 in the active site. This category represented a new variety of GSTs, which demonstrated higher selectivity for isothiocyanate substrates than the GST M1-1 type. The different groups of GSTs can be considered as distinct molecular quasi-species, each of which comprises variant amino acid sequences. The quasi-species are structurally distinguished by active-site residues that govern their substrate selectivities. Clearly, minimal alterations of the active site can generate enzymes with highly distinctive functional properties.
The binding of non-substrate ligands to the glutathione S-transferase (RX:glutathione R-transferase, EC 2.5.1.18) from bovine brain has been investigated kinetically by monitoring the inhibition of the enzyme-catalyzed reaction between glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Bilirubin, thyroxine, lithocholic acid, retinoic acid and retinol are competitive inhibitors with respect to glutathione. Cooperative binding effects are observed with lithocholic acid, retinoic acid and retinol while cooperative binding is not observed with thyroxine or bilirubin. Bilirubin is the most potent inhibitor with constants of 0.1 and 110 microM. 50% of the total activity is lost upon binding to the high-affinity site and the remainder is lost at higher bilirubin concentrations. In spite of the apparently favorable binding for bilirubin, it is estimated that the high intracellular concentrations of reduced glutathione will saturate the enzyme and allow only a small fraction of the bilirubin in brain to bind to the enzyme. It is concluded that the binding of these ligands may be of minor importance in vivo.
Microsomal and cytosolic epoxide hydrolase (mEH and cEH respectively) and glutathione S-transferase (GST) activities were measured in the liver, kidney, and gills of rainbow trout. Assays were optimized for time, pH, and temperature, using trans-stilbene oxide (TSO) and cis-stilbene oxide (CSO) as substrates for cEH and mEH, respectively. Optimal pH values for mEH, cEH, and GST were similar to mammalian values (i.e. 8.5, 7.5, and 9). Temperature optima differed between tissues and cell fractions. Specific activity of cEH-TSO was 3-14 times greater than mEH-CSO for all three tissues, and 8-60 times greater on a tissue weight basis. Liver and, to a lesser extent, kidney mEH were active against benzo[a]pyrene 4,5-oxide, whereas gill mEH was not active against this substrate. Liver cytosolic GST was active against CSO and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) but not TSO, whereas gill and kidney cytosolic GST were active only against CDNB. Liver and kidney microsomal GST were active against CDNB, but no activity was found in gill microsomes. The results are discussed in relation to possible endogenous substrates and uninduced xenobiotic metabolizing capacities of different trout tissues.
Glutathione S-transferases (GST) form an important family of biotransformation enzymes catalyzing the conjugation of glutathione to a great variety of xenobiotic compounds. The objective of this study was to compare the different characteristics of GST from freshly isolated rainbow trout hepatocytes with those corresponding to the total liver of the same fish, in order to establish the similarities. GST was purified by affinity chromatography and enzymatic activity was determined towards two substrates, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and ethacrynic acid (ETHA). The different isoenzymes were determined by HPLC associated with SDS-PAGE. Slight differences between the samples were obtained when the results corresponding to the enzyme activity were compared. HPLC results showed that all GST isoforms present in the total liver samples were represented in the isolated cells too, corresponding to isoforms with molecular masses of approximately 25.5 and 23.0 kDa.
In this paper, we describe the synthesis and characterization of four novel pyrene labeled compounds, some of them dendritic, which can act as potential sensors for the detection of nitro compounds in methanol solution. Methanol was selected as solvent due to its polar properties, which provide similar characteristics to water. The obtained pyrene labeled molecules (PyOH, Pytb, PyNK1OH and PyNK1tb) were studied by UV–Vis and steady state fluorescence spectroscopy. Their application as sensors has been tested with three different nitro compounds: nitrobenzene, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and nitromethane. PyOH and Pytb showed a detection concentration limit for the analyzed quenchers in the order of nM, making these compounds suitable for high-sensitive sensoring. PyNK1OH and PyNK1tb displayed high sensibility at µM concentration. All the sensors showed an accurate response towards quencher analytes.
The requirements and influence of thiols on the production of nitric oxide (NO) were examined in cultured porcine aortic endothelial cells. NO production was diminished when cells were pretreated with thiol-depleting agents (IC50: N-ethylmaleimide, 30 microM; 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 200 microM; diamide, 1.5 mM; diethyl maleate, 20 mM). The depletion of glutathione (45-99% loss at the various IC50 values) and protein thiols (3-25% loss at IC50) showed no consistent relationship to decreased NO production. The effects of the agents on NO production were not linked to altered sensitivity to the stimulant (calcium ionophore A23187; maximal effect at 10 microM), but roughly paralleled the appearance of cell damage (17-44% lactate dehydrogenase release at IC50). The decrease in NO production due to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was partially reversed by cysteine, dithioerythritol, and dihydrolipoate, whereas cystine partially reversed the decrease due to diamide or diethyl maleate. On the other hand, several thiols diminished NO production in control cells. Overall, alterations of NO production did not parallel the depletion or replenishment of either glutathione, protein thiol, or soluble thiol pools, and so the results argue against hypotheses that cellular thiols are either substrates or necessary cofactors in the pathway of NO synthesis in endothelial cells.
A series of GSH analogues with modifications at the gamma-glutamyl moiety was synthesized and purified by following peptide chemistry methodology. Benzyl, benzyloxycarbonyl and t-butyloxycarbonyl protective groups were used to protect individual amino acid functional groups. The formation of peptide bonds was accomplished through coupling of free amino groups with active esters, generated by reaction of the carboxylate functions with dicyclohexylcarbodi-imide and 1-hydroxybenzotriazole. The protecting groups in the tripeptides were removed in a single step by using Na in liquid NH3. Precautions were taken in order to prevent oxidation of the thiol function in the cysteine residue. Thus GSH analogues containing both L- and D-glutamic acid and L- and D-aspartic acid, coupled to cysteinylglycine through both the alpha- and the omega-carboxylate group, were synthesized. Also, decarboxy-GSH and deamino-GSH, lacking one functional group in the glutamate moiety, were prepared. The spontaneous non-enzyme-catalysed nucleophilic reaction of these GSH analogues with the electrophilic model substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene showed appreciable rate differences, indicating the importance of intramolecular interactions in determining the nucleophilic reactivity of the thiol function in the cysteine residue. In particular, the free amino group in the gamma-L-glutamic acid residue appears to play a crucial role in activating the thiol group in GSH. In an adjacent paper [Adang, Brussee, Meyer, Coles, Ketterer, van der Gen & Mulder (1988) Biochem. J. 255, 721-724] these results are compared with those obtained in a study on the ability of these GSH analogues to act as a co-substrate in the glutathione S-transferase-catalysed conjugation reaction with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene.
We investigated the effect of xanthine (X) plus xanthine oxidase (XO) on pulmonary microvascular endothelial permeability in isolated rabbit lungs perfused with Krebs buffer containing bovine serum albumin (5 g/100 ml). Addition of five mU/ml XO and 500 microM X to the perfusate caused a twofold increase in the pulmonary capillary filtration coefficient (Kf,c) 30 min later without increasing the pulmonary capillary pressure. This increase was prevented by allopurinol or catalase but not by superoxide dismutase or dimethyl sulfoxide. Because these data implicated hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) as the injurious agent, we measured its concentration in the perfusate after the addition of X and XO for a 60-min interval. In the absence of lung tissue and albumin, H2O2 increased with time, reaching a concentration of approximately 250 microM by 60 min. If albumin (5 g/100 ml) was added to the perfusate, or in the presence of lung tissue, the corresponding values were 100 microM and less than 10 microM, respectively. To understand the mechanisms of H2O2 scavenging by lung tissue, we added a 250 microM bolus of H2O2 to the lung perfusate. We found that H2O2 was removed rapidly, with a half-life of 0.31 +/- 0.04 (SE) min. This variable was not increased significantly by inhibition of lung catalase activity with sodium azide or inhibition of the lung glutathione redox cycle with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. However, inhibition of both enzymatic systems increased the half-life of H2O2 removal to 0.71 +/- 0.09 (SE) min (P less than 0.05).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Abstract. In general, the biological activation of nephrocarcinogenic chlorinated hydrocarbons proceeds via conjugation with glutathione. It has mostly been assumed that the main site of initial conjugation is the liver, followed by a mandatory transfer of intermediates to the kidney. It was therefore of interest to study the enzyme activities of subgroups of glutathione transferases (GSTs) in renal cancers and the surrounding normal renal tissues of the same individuals (n=21). For genotyping the individuals with respect to known polymorphic GST isozymes the following substrates with differential specificity were used: 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene for overall GST activity (except GST θ); 7-chloro-4-nitrobenzo-2-oxa-1,3-diazole for GST α; 1,2-dichloro-4-nitro-benzene for GST µ; ethacrynic acid and 4-vinylpyridine for GST π; and methyl chloride for GST θ. In general, the normal tissues were able to metabolize the test substrates. A general decrease in individual GST enzyme activities was apparent in the course of cancerization, and in some (exceptional) cases individual activities, expressed in the normal renal tissue, were lost in the tumour tissue. The GST enzyme activities in tumours were independent of tumour stage, or the age and gender of the patients. There was little influence of known polymorphisms of GSTM1, GSTM3 and GSTP1 upon the activities towards the test substrates, whereas the influence of GSTT1 polymorphism on the activity towads methyl chloride was straightforward. In general, the present findings support the concept that the initial GST-dependent bioactivation step of nephrocarcinogenic chlorinated hydrocarbons may take place in the kidney itself. This should be a consideration in toxicokinetic modelling.
Abstract 1. 1. Trout gills contain 1.6 mmol GSH/kg. 2. 2. The cytosolic glutathione S-transferase activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate is 0.5 μmol/min/mg protein. There is no detectable activity with 1,2-epoxy-3-( p -nitrophenoxy)propane, ethacrynic acid or p -nitrobenzyl chloride. 3. 3. The activity does not bind to cholate-, glutathione- or S-hexylglutathione-affinity matrices. It was partially purified by ammonium sulphate fractionation and chromatography on Sephadex G-75. 4. 4. The half-saturation concentrations for GSH and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene are 1.9 mM and greater than 1.0 mM respectively. 5. 5. The activity is inhibited by cholate, 1.0 mM giving 50% inhibition. 6. 6. About 70% of the activity is inhibited progressively by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene with a rate-constant of 0.09/min.
The glutathione thiol/disulfide couple is the major redox buffer in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER); however, mechanisms by which it contributes to the tightly regulated redox environment of this intracellular organelle are poorly understood. The recent development of genetically encoded, ratiometric, single green fluorescent protein-based redox-sensitive (roGFP) sensors adjusted for more oxidative environments enables non-invasive measurement of the ER redox environment in living cells. In turn, Fö rster resonance energy transfer (FRET) sensors based on two fluorophore probes represent an alternative strategy for ratiometric signal acquisition. In previous work, we described the FRET-based redox sensor CY-RL7 with a relatively high midpoint redox potential of 2143 mV, which is required for monitoring glutathione potentials in the comparatively high oxidative environment of the ER. Here, the efficacy of the CY-RL7 probe was ascertained in the cytosol and ER of live cells with fluorescence microscopy and flow cytometry. The sensor was found to be fully reduced at steady state in the cytosol and became fully oxidized in response to treatment with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, a depletor of reduced glutathione (GSH). In contrast, the probe was strongly oxidized (88%) upon expression in the ER of cultured cells. We also examined the responsiveness of the ER sensor to perturbations in cellular glutathione homeostasis. We observed that the reductive level of the FRET sensor was increased two-fold to about 28% in cells pretreated with N-acetylcysteine, a substrate for GSH synthesis. Finally, we evaluated the responsiveness of CY-RL7 and roGFP1-iL to various perturbations of cellular glutathione homeostasis to address the divergence in the specificity of these two probes. Together, the present data generated with genetically encoded green fluorescent protein (GFP)-based glutathione probes highlight the complexity of the ER redox environment and indicate that the ER glutathione pool may be more oxidized than is currently considered.
When male guinea pigs were given a single dose of Cd (2.0 mg Cd2+/kg, ip) 72 hr prior to sacrifice, the hepatic reduced glutathione (GSH) level did not change although glutathione S-transferase (GST) activities toward the substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB), ethacrynic acid (EAA), and 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy) propane (ENPP) increased significantly as compared to controls. Cd did not change the renal GSH level and GST activities toward CDNB and EAA. However, significant increase was observed in the GST activity for DCNB whereas GST activity for ENPP was significantly inhibited by Cd. When the animals were given a single dose of Ni (14.8 mg Ni2+/kg, sc) 16 hr prior to sacrifice, significant increases were observed in hepatic GSH level and GST activities toward CDNB, DCNB, EAA and ENPP. Ni, however, depressed the renal GSH level and GST activities toward CDNB, DCNB and ENPP significantly. The renal GST activity toward EAA remained unaltered. For the combined treatment, guinea pigs received the single dose of Ni 56 hr after the single dose of Cd and then they were killed 16 hr later. In these animals, no significant alteration was observed in the hepatic GSH level. The augmentation of elevation was observed in hepatic GST activities toward CDNB and DCNB. Combined metal treatment did not potentiate the elevation of hepatic GST activities toward EM and ENPP to any greater degree. The depression of renal GSH level was significantly ameliorated by the combined treatment. Combination treatment potentiated the depression of renal GST activity for ENPP but not for CDNB. The renal GST activities toward DCNB and EAA, however, were unaltered by the combined metal treatment. These results reveal that the hepatic and renal GSTs of the guinea pig are differentially regulated by Cd or Ni alone and in combination, and that the combination of Cd and Ni does have an additive effect on hepatic and renal GSTs depending on the substrates of GSTs.-Environ Health Perspect 102(Suppl 9): 69-72 (1994) 
Abstract The cytotoxicity of the pro-oxidant fungicide dichlone (2,3-dichloro-1,4-naphthoquinone), to the human endothelial cell line, ECV304, was evaluated. The sensitivity of these cells to dichlone was intermediate between that of human hepatoblastoma HepG2 cells (least sensitive) and that of human GMO5757 fibroblasts. The midpoint cytotoxicity values for a 24-hr exposure to dichlone was about 0.02 m m when evaluated with the neutral red, acid phosphatase, and XTT tetrazolium assays. Lactic acid dehydrogenase leakage, after a 4-hr exposure, occurred initially at 0.05 m m dichlone. As with other naphthoquinones, cellular metabolism of dichlone presumably could proceed either by a one- or a two-electron reduction reaction. The enhancement of potency of dichlone towards ECV304 cells pretreated with the glutathione-depleting agents, dl -buthionine-[S,R]-sulfoximine, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, and 1,3-bis(chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea; the reduction in potency of dichlone to cells pretreated with (−)-2-oxo-4-thiazolidine carboxylic acid; the decrease in intracellular glutathione on exposure to dichlone; the subtle damage to the plasma membrane of dichlone-treated cells (as detected by the leakage of lactate dehydrogenase from these cells); and the lack of potentiation of dichlone toxicity by pretreatment with dicoumarol, are all consistent with the one-electron reduction reaction as the dominant pathway and with the subsequent generation of reactive oxygen molecules. The ECV304 cell line proved to be a useful research tool to study cytotoxic injury to endothelial cells.
The correlation between sequence diversity and enzymatic function was studied in a library of Theta class glutathione transferases (GSTs) obtained by stochastic recombination of fragments of cDNA encoding human GST T1-1 and rat GST T2-2. In all, 94 randomly picked clones were characterized with respect to sequence, expression level, and catalytic activity in the conjugation reactions between glutathione and six alternative electrophilic substrates. Out of these six different compounds, dichloromethane is a selective substrate for human GST T1-1, whereas 1-menaphthyl sulfate and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene are substrates for rat GST T2-2. The other three substances serve as substrates for both enzymes. Through this broad characterization, we have identified enzyme variants that have acquired novel activity profiles that differ substantially from those of the original GSTs. In addition, the expression levels of many clones were improved in comparison to the parental enzyme. A library of mutants can thus display a distribution of properties from which highly divergent evolutionary pathways may emerge, resembling natural evolutionary processes. From the GST library, a clone was identified that, by the point mutation N49D in the rat GST T2-2 sequence, has a 1700% increased activity with 1-menaphthyl sulfate and a 60% decreased activity with 4-nitrophenethyl bromide. Through the N49D mutation, the ratio of these activities has thus been altered 40-fold. An extensive characterization of a population of stochastically mutated enzymes can accordingly be used to find variants with novel substrate-activity profiles and altered catalytic properties. Recursive recombination of selected sequences displaying optimized properties is a strategy for the engineering of proteins for medical and biochemical applications. Such sequential design is combinatorial protein chemistry based on remodeling of existing structural scaffolds and has similarities to evolutionary processes in nature.
Five structurally related nitrobenzenes (1,2-dinitrobenzene, 1,3-dinitrobenzene, 1,4-dinitrobenzene, 1,3,5-trinitrobenzene, and picric acid) and Meisenheimer complex [1-(S-glutathionyl)-2,4,6-trinitrocyclohexadienate] were evaluated as possible inhibitors of affinity purified mammalian glutathione transferases (GSTs) isolated from human liver or human term placenta and rat fiver. The results suggest that the degree of GST inhibition depends upon both the chemical in question and the enzyme source. Among the nitrobenzenes tested, 1,3,5-trinitrobenzene (TNB) was found to be the most potent inhibitor of GST activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) from all the sources, whereas 1,3-dinitrobenzene (1,3-DNB) was the least effective. TNB-caused inhibition of GST activity toward CDNB appeared to be isozyme specific in that compared to the enzyme from human term placenta (GSTP1–1), the degree of inhibition of the mixture of GST isozymes present in the fivers of adult rats and humans was low. The enzyme a...
Rat liver glutathione S-transferases with isoelectric points near 6.7 were resolved from more basic forms of the protein. This anionic fraction represented about 30% of the total activity in liver with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and was the preponderant form utilizing trans-4-phenyl-3-butene-2-one as a substrate. The anionic transferases are dimeric proteins composed of two subunits designated as Yb and were distinguished from the cationic transferases on the basis of structural, immunological, and binding properties. Amino acid compositions and immunological properties of the anionic protein were similar to those of glutathione S-transferases A and C. The anionic forms had substantially less ordered secondary structure than cationic forms composed of subunits Ya and Yc. Stoichiometric ratios of two high affinity binding sites per dimer, also differentiated between the anionic and all of the cationic transferases which bind only a single mole of ligand. Affinity matrices composed of corticosterone or cholate, and circular dichroism methods, were used to demonstrate selective binding of steroids and bile acids to the anionic glutathione S-transferases. Glucocorticoids and progestins were shown to bind with high affinity whereas estrogens were bound at distinct lower affinity sites. In contrast to the cationic transferases, glutathione had no effect on binding of the steroids to the anionic forms, which suggested that these proteins have the capacity to bind these substances even in a milieu with high concentrations of glutathione.
Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a chronic inflammatory skin disease with a complex etiology that encompasses immunologic responses. AD is frequently associated with elevated immunoglobulin (Ig) E levels, and common environmental factors contribute to its pathogenesis. Several recent studies have documented the role of specific lactic acid bacteria in the treatment and prevention of AD in humans and mice. In this study, the efficacy of Duolac ATP, a probiotic preparation, was determined in a mouse model with AD-like skin lesions. Alterations in the cytokine levels and histological staining suggested the alleviation of AD. The in vivo test showed that T helper (Th)2 cytokines, IgE, interleukin (IL)-4, and IL-5, were significantly downregulated, whereas Th1 cytokines, IL-12p40 and interferon (IFN)-γ, were upregulated in all groups of mice treated with Duolac ATP compared to that observed in the group of mice treated with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB) alone. Moreover, the scratch score decreased in all mice treated with Duolac ATP. Staining of the dorsal area of the mice in each group with hematoxylin and eosin and toluidine blue further confirmed the alleviation of AD in mice orally treated with Duolac ATP. These results suggest that Duolac ATP inhibits the development of AD-like skin lesions in NC/Nga mice by suppressing the Th2 cell response and increasing the Th1 cell response. Thus, Duolac ATP is beneficial and effective for the treatment of AD-like skin lesions.
The choroid plexuses (CPs) form a protective interface between the blood and the ventricular cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). To probe into the pathways by which CPs provide brain protection, we sought to evaluate the efficiency of glutathione conjugation in this barrier as a mechanism to prevent the entry of blood-borne electrophilic, potentially toxic compounds into the CSF, and we investigated the fate of the resulting metabolites. Rat CPs, as well as human CPs from both fetal and adult brains, displayed high glutathione-S-transferase activities. Using an in vitro model of the blood-CSF barrier consisting of choroidal epithelial cells cultured in a two-chambered device, we showed that glutathione conjugation can efficiently prevent the entry of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) into the CSF, a model for electrophilic compounds. The duration of this enzymatic protection was set by the concentration of CDNB to which the epithelium was exposed, and this barrier effect was impaired only on severe epithelial intracellular glutathione and cysteine depletion. The conjugate was excreted from the choroidal cells in a polarized manner, mostly at the blood-facing membrane, via a high-capacity transport process, which is not a rate-limiting step in this detoxification pathway, and which may involve transporters of the ATP-binding cassette c(Abcc) and/or solute carrier 21 (Slc21) families. Supplying the choroidal epithelium at the blood-facing membrane with a therapeutically relevant concentration of N-acetylcysteine sustained this neuroprotective effect. Thus, glutathione conjugation at the CP epithelium coupled with the basolateral efflux of the resulting metabolites form an efficient blood-CSF enzymatic barrier, which can be enhanced by pharmacologically increasing glutathione synthesis within the epithelial cells.
The ability of retinoic acid to modulate glutathione S-transferase P1-1 (GSTP1-1) activity has important implications both for cancer prevention and for anticancer therapy. We investigated GSTP1-1 expression and activity in the human neuroblastoma cell line SK-N-BE(2) (genotype A*/B*) under basal conditions and during 48-h incubation with 0.1 microM all-trans-retinoic acid. The steady-state levels of glutathione transferase P1-1 mRNA and protein during 48-h incubation with all-trans-retinoic acid did not increase substantially, but we detected a significant reduction of GSTP1-1 specific activity. This reduction in enzymatic activity could not be ascribed to a differential action of retinoic acid on the gene variants A* and B*; indeed, the two GSTP1-1 isoforms have different affinities toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), while we found a substantial invariance of the K(m) (CDNB) in the cytosol during retinoid treatment. A modulatory effect of retinoic acid on other enzymes involved in glutathione transferase P1-1 metabolism, such as the retinoic acid-induced tissue trans-glutaminase, might be hypothesized, as well as a direct inactivation of GSTP1-1 by the oxidative stress that characterizes the early phases of apoptosis.
Abstract The induction by the central stimulant picrotoxin of hepatic drug-metabolizing enzymes was studied in rats. The hepatic content of P450 and the activity of benzphetamine N-demethylation increased gradually after administration of picrotoxin dissolved in drinking water (2 mg/mL), to three-times higher levels than the initial values at the third day of treatment. The increase in benzphetamine N -demethylase activity by picrotoxin was somewhat higher than the increase produced by phenobarbital. Supporting these results, immunoblot analysis showed that CYP2B1 and 2B2 proteins in the liver microsomes were increased by picrotoxin. Picrotoxinin and picrotin, which are components of the picrotoxin molecule, had the same ability to induce the hepatic activity of benzphetamine N-demethylation. The liver microsomal activities of testosterone 16β- and 16β-hydroxylation were enhanced significantly after treatment with picrotoxinin and picrotin. However, benzo[a]pyrene 3-hydroxylation, aniline 4-hydroxylation, and testosterone hydroxylations at the 2α- and 7α-positions were not increased by picrotoxinin and picrotin treatment. In addition to monooxygenase, significant induction of glutathione S -transferase activity for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and UDP-glucuronyltransferase activity for 4-hydroxybiphenyl and 4-nitrophenol was also observed by pretreatment of picrotoxin. These results clearly indicate that picrotoxin is an inducer of phenobarbital-inducible liver enzymes.
The glutathione transferase from T. infestans is able to render aqueous metabolites when incubated in vitro with malathion, parathion and fenitrothion. It is a soluble enzyme present in every developmental stage and widely distributed in all insect organs. The purification procedure applied, consisting of fractionation with ammonium sulfate and Bio-Gel P-60 chromatography, gives an unique molecular form catalytically active using methyl iodide as substrate in polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE). One of the most active substrates is the 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), with an activity maximum at pH 7.5 and at 45 degrees C temperature. Its activation energy calculated from an Arrhenius plot is 14,846 cal mol-1. The enzyme susceptibility to inhibition by thiol reagents shows three degrees of responses; slight, moderate or high, depending on the compounds used. The kinetics of the enzyme catalysed reaction with the purified fraction is complex, and resembles that reported for glutathione S-transferase A from rat liver, showing a biphasic kinetic mechanism in which the reaction pathway depends on the concentration of GSH. In general, the properties of this insect enzyme are similar to those enzymes isolated from vertebrate organisms.
Lipophilic azo compounds possessing 1-phenylazo-2-naphthol or 1-phenylazo-2-naphthylamine moieties induced cytochrome P-448 and related mono-oxygenase activities, UDP-glucuronyltransferase activity towards p-nitrophenol, glutathione-S-transferase activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, aldehyde dehydrogenase, and menadione reductase activities. This pattern of induction by azo dyes is very similar to that by 3-methylcholanthrene. None of the hydrophilic azo compounds tested and none of the other lipophilic azo compounds tested including 4-phenylazo-1-naphthol induced these activities. It is suggested that the formation of a third six-membered ring fused to naphthalene in a phenanthrene-like arrangement by hydrogen bonding between the phenolic hydroxyl and azo nitrogen is required for induction.
Allylamine (AA) is a cardiovascular toxin that causes lesions resembling atherosclerosis in several mammalian species. AA's toxic effects are thought to be exerted through its conversion to acrolein (AC), a potent electrophilic alkylating agent and atherogen. Semicarbazide sensitive amine oxidase (SSAO) catalyzes the oxidation of AA to AC. Glutathione S-transferases (GST) can catalyze the first step of detoxification of AC to mercapturic acid. Our previous studies suggest that the isozyme rGST8-8 is a principal defense against electrophilic stress exerted by α,β-unsaturated carbonyls such as AC. In the present studies, we use cultured rat vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC) to examine the relative roles of SSAO and rGST8-8 in the cytotoxic effects of the atherogens, AA and AC. Exposure derived AA-resistant cells (VSMC-AA) were 3.5-fold more resistant to AA when compared to VSMC and 1.8-fold more resistant to acrolein. SSAO activity was 2-fold higher in VSMC-AA than in VSMC. Consistent with the role of SSAO in biotransformation of AA, the SSAO inhibitor semicarbazide (SC; 100 μM) provided nearly complete protection from AA to both VSMC-AA and VSMC. As expected, SC did not affect the cytotoxicity of AC. Pretreatment with 100 μM sulfasalazine (SS), a GST inhibitor, potentiated AA and AC toxicity in both VSMC-AA and VSMC, indicating a protective role of GST. Catalytic efficiency (Kcat/Km) of GSTs was higher toward 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE) (0.65 mM−1 s−1) than toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) (0.14 mM−1 s−1) for VSMC. In VSMC-AA, Kcat/Km was increased 4.1-fold toward CDNB (0.58 mM−1 s−1) and 6-fold toward 4HNE (3.9 mM−1 s−1) when compared to VSMC, indicating a preferential increase in VSMC-AA of GST isozymes which utilize α,β-unsaturated carbonyls. Western blots confirmed induction of rGST8-8 in VSMC-AA. Expression of recombinant mGSTA4 (the mouse homolog of rGST8-8) in VSMC caused a 1.6-fold increase in resistance to AA and AC. This resistance was fully reversed by 50 μM SS. Our results demonstrate that GSTs are an important defense against electrophilic atherogens and that isozymes with high activity toward α,β-unsaturated carbonyls are particularly important in the vascular wall.
We investigated for 1 month the capacity of aggregated trout hepatocytes to metabolize xenobiotics and steroids. As a first approach, the cytochrome P450 content and markers of phase I and II metabolic reactions were examined in subcellular fractions prepared from cultured liver cells. Ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase (EROD) was chosen as a marker of CYP1A1. The induction of this enzyme was studied using β-naphthoflavone as inducer. For phase II reactions, glutathione-S-transferase (GST) activity was measured using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate. A control of monooxygenase and transferase activities in intact cells was obtained by measuring selective hydroxylation of testosterone, and glucuronidation of 4-nitrophenol and testosterone. All the results were compared with those obtained for freshly isolated hepatocytes or conventional primary culture. The cytochrome P450 content decreased gradually until day 5 and then maintained on the same level (ca 50% of the initial content) for 1 month in aggregate culture. EROD and GST activities were constant or even increasing during 1 month. After 1 month culture, 2 days exposure of cells to β-naphthoflavone led to a 10-fold increase. After 30 days, testosterone hydroxylase activities were about 30% of the activities found on freshly isolated hepatocytes. A similar decrease appeared for testosterone glucuronidation, whereas a stable UDPGT activity was observed during the same period when 4-nitrophenol was used as substrate.
Rat lenses in which all the glutathione has been conjugated with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene remain apparently transparent for extended periods of time (up to 24 hours), but are more susceptible to oxidative damage by oxidants such as superoxide anions and hydrogen peroxide. Reduced glutathione has an additional role of detoxification of xenobiotics to form the corresponding mercapturic acids and protection of lens by conjugating the xenobiotics which could be transported out of the lens. The GSH-xenobiotic conjugate transport system is probably shared by GSSG.
Abstract The objectives of the present study were two-fold: (a) to evaluate the role of molecular shape on the interaction of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) with the Ah receptor and CYP1A1 upregulation, and (b) to evaluate the potential of PAHs to induce epoxide hydrolase and glutathione S -transferase, two major enzymes involved in their metabolism. In order to achieve these objectives, precision-cut rat liver slices were incubated with a range of concentrations of seven 5-ring isomeric PAHs, namely benzo[ c ]chrysene, benzo[ b ]chrysene, benzo[ g ]chrysene, dibenzo[ a , j ]anthracene, dibenzo[ a , c ]anthracene, picene and pentacene, for 24 h. All compounds, with the exception of pentacene, elevated the O -deethylation of ethoxyresorufin, an activity associated with CYP1A1; induction of this enzyme by the various PAHs correlated with their avidity for the Ah receptor. None of the PAHs studied increased epoxide hydrolase activity, monitored using benzo[ a ]pyrene 4,5-oxide. Of the seven PAHs, only benzo[ g ]chrysene elevated glutathione S -transferase activity, measured using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene or 7-chloro-4-nitrobenzo-2-oxa-1,3-diazole as substrates. No relationship could be established between length or length/width and interaction with the Ah receptor and CYP1A1 up-regulation indicating that other structural or electronic factors are likely to be more important. Finally, 5-ring PAHs are poor inducers of the epoxide hydrolase and glutathione S -transferase enzyme systems.
Abstract ::: Evidence is presented that ligandin, an intracellular protein involved in the binding of such anions as bilirubin, indocyanine green, and penicillin, is identical to glutathione S-transferase B (EC 2.5.1.18), an enzyme catalyzing the conjugation of glutathione with such electrophiles as 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, iodomethane, ethacrynic acid, and bromosulfophthalein. The proteins, isolated by distinct methods, have the same specificity for substrates and for ligands, react in identical fashion to antibody produced against ligandin, bear entirely similar physical characteristics and amino acid composition, and are both induced in response to phenobarbital. Indocyanine green, one of the ligands that is not effective as a substrate, was shown to competitively inhibit the conjugation reaction. It is suggested that specificity is directed toward compounds with electrophilic sites.
Glutathione S-transferase activity (EC 2.5.1.18) was demonstrated in six species of earthworms of the family Lumbricidae: Eisenia foetida, Lumbricus terrestris, Lumbricus rebellus, Allolobophora longa, Allolobophora caliginosa and Allolobophora chlorotica. Considerable activity was obtained with 1-chlorl-2,4-dinitrobenzene and low activity with 3,4-dichloro-1-nitrobenzene, but no enzymic reaction was detectable with sulphobromophthalein 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)propane of trans-4-phenylbut-3-en-2-one as substrates. Enzyme prepartations from L. rubellus and A. longa were the most active, whereas A. chlorotica gave the lowest activity. The ratio of the activities obtained with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 3,4-cichloro-1-nitrobenzene was very different in the various species, but no phylogenetic pattern was evident. Isoelectric focusing gave rise to various activity peaks as measured with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as a substrate, and the activity profiles of the species examined appeared to follow a taxonomic pattern. The activity of Allolobophora had the highest peak in the alkaline region, whereas that of Lumbricus had the highest peak in the acid region. Eisenia showed a very complex activity profile, with the highest peak ne pH 7. As determined by an enzymic assay, all the species contained glutathione, on an average about 0.5 mumol/g wet wt. Conjugation with glutathione catalysed by glutathione S-transferases may consequently be an important detoxification mechanism in earthworms.
Abstract Setaria is a grass genus of about 125 species that includes both food crops and a number of important agricultural weeds. Setaria viridis , S. faberii , S. glauca , and S. geniculata are major agricultural weeds worldwide and in North America. There is currently an inadequate knowledge of inter- and intraspecific herbicide-resistance variation in these foxtail species despite the importance of this knowledge to understanding evolution of herbicide resistance and improving weed management. Previous isozyme analyses of these species indicate that significant variation in genetic diversity exists among foxtail populations. It is unknown whether this genetic diversity is correlated with variability in important adaptive traits such as herbicide resistance. Studies were conducted to determine if inter- and intraspecific differences in atrazine and metolachlor resistance exist in foxtail species. Three assays were utilized to make these determinations: whole plant dose response, in vivo leaf chlorophyll fluorescence, and glutathione S-transferase (GST) conjugation assays. Significant variations in atrazine and metolachlor resistance were revealed within and among foxtail species. Green and giant foxtail were more resistant to atrazine than was yellow foxtail. Although green and giant foxtail again had a similar level of resistance, yellow foxtail was the most resistant species to metolachlor. These results indicated that the resistance mechanisms (quantitative or qualitative) to these two herbicides may be different in yellow, green, and giant foxtail. Intraspecific differences in atrazine resistance were found within both green foxtail populations and with yellow foxtail populations. Intraspecific metolachlor resistance differences were detected among green foxtail populations, but not in other foxtail species. No evidence for population shifts to more resistant foxtail variants with prolonged atrazine exposure was found in several detailed studies. When populations from several farms with a long history of atrazine use were compared, no differences in atrazine resistance were detected among populations from treated areas and adjacent untreated areas. Chlorophyll fluorescence assays indicated a similar pattern of atrazine resistant among foxtail populations, although it was less sensitive in detecting differences than the whole plant assay. No differences in GST-mediated atrazine or metolachlor conjugation were detected within or between foxtail species. These results may indicate that GST-mediated glutathione-herbicide conjugation may not be the primary detoxification mechanism for these herbicides in these foxtail species. Alternatively, these results may be a reflection of mitigating factors, such as differences at the target site, or in fitness related to growth rate at critical growth stages, among the populations. Several foxtail species had significant inter- and intraspecific differences in GST-mediated 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene conjugation activity. In some instances these responses were similar to those observed in the whole plant responses to metolachlor, although the significance of these similarities was not clear.
The effects of the dichloroacetamide safener benoxacor on maize (Zea mays L. var Pioneer 3906) growth and glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity were evaluated, and GST isozymes induced by benoxacor were partially separated, characterized, and identified. Protection from metolachlor injury was closely correlated with GST activity, which was assayed with metolachlor as a substrate, as benoxacor concentration increased from 0.01 to 1 [mu]M. GST activity continued to increase at higher benoxacor concentrations (10 and 100 [mu]M), but no further protection was observed. Total GST activity with metolachlor as a substrate increased 2.6- to 3.8-fold in response to 1 [mu]M benoxacor treatment. Total GST activity from maize treated with or without 1 [mu]M benoxacor was resolved by fast protein liquid chromatography anion-exchange chromatography into four major activities, designated activity peaks A, B, C, and D in their order of elution. These GST activity peaks were enhanced to varying degrees by benoxacor. Activity peak B showed the least induction, whereas activity peak A was absent constitutively and thus highly induced by benoxacor. In contrast to earlier reports, there appear to be not one, but at least two, major constitutive isozymes (activity peaks A and D) having activity with metolachlor as substrate; there were at least three such isozymes in benoxacor-treated maize (activity peaks A, C, and D). The elution volumes of activity peaks A, B, C, and D were compared with those of partially purified maize GST I and GST II; also, the reactivity of polypeptides in these activity peaks with antisera to GST I or GST I/III (mixture) was evaluated. Evidence from these experiments indicated that activity peak B contained GST I, and activity peak C contained GST II and GST III. Activity peaks A and D contained unique GSTs that may play a major role in metolachlor metabolism and in the safening activity of benoxacor in maize. Isozymes present in activity peaks A and D were not detected in earlier reports because of the very low activity with the artificial substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Immunoblotting experiments also indicated the presence of numerous unidentified GST subunits, including multiple subunits in chromatography fractions containing single peaks of GST activity; this is indicative of the likely complexity and diversity of the maize GST enzyme family.
Increased expression of certain glutathione S-transferase (GST) isoenzymes has frequently been associated with the development of resistance to alkylating agents and other classes of antineoplastic drugs in drug-selected cell lines. The question arises whether this phenomenon is causal or is a stress-induced response associated with drug resistance in these cell lines. We have constructed mammalian expression vectors containing the human GST mu and GST alpha 2 (Ha2) cDNAs and stably transfected them into the human breast cancer cell line MCF-7. Whereas the parental and pSV2neo-transfected cell lines display low GST activity, three individual transfected clones were identified in each group that expressed either GST mu or GST alpha 2. The range of GST activities was similar to those observed in cells selected for anticancer drug resistance. The GST mu specific activities were 56, 150, and 340 mlU/mg, compared with 10 mlU/mg of endogenous GST mu in control lines. Specific activities in GST alpha 2-transfected clones were 17, 28, and 52 mlU/mg, compared with no detectable alpha class GST in control lines. These clonal lines and the parental and pSV2neo-transfected control lines were tested for sensitivity to antineoplastic agents and other cytotoxic compounds. The clones with the highest activity in each group were 1.7-fold (GST alpha 2) to 2.1-fold (GST mu) resistant to the toxic effects of ethacrynic acid, a known substrate for GSTs. However, the GST-transfected cell lines were not resistant to doxorubicin, L-phenylalanine mustard, bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea, cisplatin, chlorambucil, or the GST substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene or tert-butyl hydroperoxide. Thus, although L-phenylalanine mustard, bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea, chlorambucil, tert-butyl hydroperoxide, and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene are known to be metabolized by glutathione-dependent GST-catalyzed reactions, there was no protection against any of these agents in MCF-7 cell lines overexpressing GST mu or GST alpha 2. We conclude that, at the levels of GST obtained in this transfection model system, overexpression of GST mu or GST alpha 2 is not by itself sufficient to confer resistance to these anticancer agents. These studies do not exclude the possibility that GST may be a marker of drug resistance or that other gene products not expressed in MCF-7 cells might cooperate with GST to confer drug resistance.
Glutathione-S-transferases constitute a family of enzymes involving in the detoxification of xenobiotics, signalling cascades and serving as ligandins or/and catalyzing the conjugation of various chemicals and drugs. The widely expressed cytosolic GST-pi is a marker protein in various cancers and its increased concentration is linked to drug resistance. GST-pi is autoregulated by S-glutathionylation and it catalyzes the S-glutathionylation of other proteins in response to oxidative or nitrosative stress. S-glutathionylation of GST-pi results in multimer formation and the breakage of ligand binding interactions with c-Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase (JNK). Another widely expressed GST enzyme, GST-alpha is assumed as a marker in hepatocellular damage, is implicated in cancer, asthma, cardiovascular disease and response to chemotherapy. Although, it was shown that hypericin binds and inhibits GST-alpha and GST-pi, the inhibition characteristics have not been investigated in detail. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of hypericin on major GSTs; GST-alpha and GST-pi purified from rat small intestine. When GSH used as varied substrate the inhibition pattern with hypericin was uncompetitive for GST-alpha (K(i)=0.16 + or - 0.02 microM) and noncompetitive for GST-pi (K(i) = 2.46 + or - 0.43 microM). While using CDNB (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene) as the varied substrate, the inhibition patterns were noncompetitive for GST-alpha and competitive for GST-pi; K(i) values for GST-alpha and GST-pi were 1.91 + or - 0.21 and 0.55 + or - 0.07 microM, respectively. Since hypericin accumulated in cancer cells and important in photodynamic therapy (PDT), inhibition of GST-alpha and GST-pi by hypericin might increase the effectivity of the treatment. Considering that GST-pi is responsible for the drug resistance its inhibition might increase the benefit obtained from chemotherapy.
(R,S)-2-iodooctane and (R,S)-2-bromooctane were found to be substrates for the glutathione S-transferases from rat liver. The conjugation reactions of the enantiomeric 2-halooctanes and glutathione were found to proceed with inversion of configuration at the chiral carbon of the substrate. Selective titration of the free cysteine residues of the glutathione S-transferases provided no observable effect on the stereochemical course of these conjugation reactions. No evidence for substrate stereoselectivity was observed. The diastereomeric S-(2-octyl)glutathiones were produced in approximately equal amounts from racemic 2-halooctane substrates. With S-(+)-2-iodooctane as the electrophilic substrate, a biphasic double reciprocal plot of glutathione concentration vs. initial velocity of product formation was observed suggesting complex kinetics. The S-2-octylglutathione diastereomers were found to be potent inhibitors of the glutathione S-transferase-catalyzed conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. These results provide support for a single displacement mechanism for the conjugation of 2-halooctanes and glutathione catalyzed by the glutathione S-transferases with product inhibition at low glutathione concentrations.
Enzymatic properties of five human glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) and non-enzymatic conjugation rates of GST substrates were examined as a function of glutathione (GSH) concentration and pH. GSTP1-1 showed a broad substrate specificity with both low and high GSH (10 mM) concentrations at pH 7.0, and the inhibitor insensitivity was then prominent. Among the GST substrates tested, ethacrynic acid, p-nitrophenylacetate, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and trans-4-phenyl-3-buten-2-one conjugated nonenzymatically with half-times of 0.39, 3.1, 9.4 and 10.0 min respectively at 10 mM GSH, pH 7.0 and 35 degrees C. The half-time for acrolein estimated by extrapolation was approximately 0.5 s. While the enzymatic reaction rates were independent of GSH at concentrations larger than Km values according to Michaelis-Menten kinetics and relatively insensitive to a pH change from 6.5 to 7.0, the non-enzymatic ones were linearly proportional to the GSH concentration and sensitive to pH. The enhanced non-enzymatic conjugation of various electrophiles at high GSH concentrations may in part account for the physiological significance of GSH elevation in preneoplastic and neoplastic cells.
Erythrocyte glutathione (GSH) can be rapidly depleted by incubating the cells with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), which forms 2,4-dinitrophenyl-S-glutathione with GSH through the reaction catalyzed by glutathione S-transferase. GSH-CDNB conjugate thus formed stays undegraded within the erythrocytes. This indicates that in the erythrocytes, mercapturic acid pathway is inoperative. Depletion of GSH in the intact erythrocytes by CDNB results in rapid oxidation of large amounts of hemoglobin to methemoglobin. When glutathione S-transferase-free hemolysate of erythrocytes is incubated with CDNB, the depletion of GSH as well as methemoglobin formation are minimal. Glutathione peroxidase and glutathione reductase activities of the erythrocytes are not affected by CDNB. These studies provide a specific enzymatic method for rapid removal of erythrocyte GSH and also indicate that GSH is vital in maintaining a reduced environment within the erythrocytes.
Pugc is a unique glutathione S-transferase subunit species that is absent in normal pumpkin plants, but GST3c (homodimer of Pugc) accumulates in cultured pumpkin cells treated with 40 ppm 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid for six days. GST3c was purified by DEAE-cellulose, hydroxylapatite, and S-hexylglutathione-agarose column chromatography, and its homogeneity was confirmed by SDS-PAGE analysis. The specific activity of GST3c was 124 μmol/min/mg protein with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. This was higher than those of the other plant and animal glutathione S-transferases. Mouse antiserum raised against the purified GST3c recognized only Pugc, but not Puga, Pugb, nor Pugd when the reactivity of pumpkin glutathione S-transferase subunits was tested.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) conjugate activated xenobiotics with glutathione; thus, GST induction may improve detoxification and excretion of potentially harmful compounds. Using a randomized cross-over design, we tested the hypothesis that, in humans, serum GST-alpha concentration (GST-alpha) and GST activity increase with vegetable consumption and that this effect is GSTM1 genotype dependent. Twenty-one men (10 GSTM1-null and 11 GSTM1+) and 22 women (15 GSTM1-null and 7 GSTM1+), nonsmokers, 20-40 years of age and not on medications, ate four 6-day controlled diets: basal (vegetable-free), and basal supplemented with three botanically defined groups of vegetables (i.e., brassica, allium, and apiaceous). Fasting blood samples, collected on the last 2 days of each feeding period, were analyzed for GST-alpha, serum GST activity [against 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and 7-chloro-4-nitrobenzo-2-oxa-1,3-diazole (NBD-Cl)] and peripheral-lymphocyte GST-mu activity (against trans-stilbene oxide). The brassica, but not allium or apiaceous, vegetable diets (relative to the basal diet) increased GST-alpha by 26% (P = 0.005) and GST (NBD-Cl) activity by 7% (P = 0.02) in the GSTM1-null individuals, particularly the women. Apiaceous vegetable supplementation decreased GST-alpha in the GSTM1+ men (P = 0.03). Among the GSTM1+ women, both brassica and the allium diets increased GST-mu activity by 18% (P = 0.02) and 26% (P = 0.001), respectively. The vegetable diets had no effect on GST (CDNB) activity, irrespective of GSTM1 genotype or sex. These results demonstrate that GSTM1 genotype has a significant effect on GST responses to diet and that brassica vegetables are most effective at inducing GST-alpha, whereas both brassica and allium vegetables induce GST-mu. GST responses were more pronounced in women than men, but it is not clear from this study whether this is a dose-per-body-weight or a sex-specific effect.
Abstract Glyoxalase I and glutathione transferase (GST) are two glutathione-dependent enzymes which are enhanced in plants during cell division and in response to diverse stress treatments. In soybean, a further connection between these two enzymes has been suggested by a clone (Accession No. X68819) resembling a GST being described as a glyoxalase I. To characterize glyoxalase I in soybean, GmGlyox I resembling the dimeric enzyme from animals has been cloned from a cDNA library prepared from soybean suspension cultures. When expressed in Escherichia coli, Gm Glyox I was found to be a 38-kDa dimer composed of 21-kDa subunits and unlike the enzyme from mammals showed activity in the absence of metal ions. Gm Glyox I was active toward the hemithioacetal adducts formed by reacting methylglyoxal, or phenylglyoxal, with glutathione, homoglutathione, or γ-glutamylcysteine, showing no preference for homoglutathione adducts over glutathione adducts, even though homoglutathione is the dominant thiol in soybean. When the clone X68819 was expressed in E. coli, the respective recombinant enzyme was active as a GST rather than a glyoxalase and was termed Gm GST 3. Gm GST 3 was active as a homodimer (45 kDa) composed of 26-kDa subunits and showed a preference for glutathione over homoglutathione when conjugating 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Both enzymes are associated with cell division in soybean cultures, but Gm GST 3 (0.4% total protein) was 40 times more abundant than Gm Glyox I (0.01%).
Female C57Bl/6J mice were given drinking water containing 0.05% propylthiouracil to induce a hypothyroid condition. Mitochondrial glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase activity, used as an index of hypothyroidism, was 57.1 +/- 4.5 and 29.4 +/- 3.8 nmol/min per mg of protein for control and propylthiouracil-treated animals respectively. Administration of tri-iodothyronine resulted in an approx. 4.5-fold increase in dehydrogenase activity in propylthiouracil-treated animals. A dose-dependent increase in hepatic GSH S-transferase activity in propylthiouracil-treated animals was observed at tri-iodothyronine concentrations ranging from 2 to 200 micrograms/100 g body wt. This increase in transferase activity was seen only when 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)propane was used as substrate for the transferase. Transferase activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene as substrate was decreased by tri-iodothyronine. Administration of actinomycin D (75 micrograms/100 g body wt.) inhibited the tri-iodothyronine induction of transferase activity. Results of these studies strongly suggest that tri-iodothyronine administration markedly affected the activities of GSH S-transferase by inducing a specific isoenzyme of GSH S-transferase and suppressing other isoenzymic activities.
Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a chronic inflammatory skin disease with a complex etiology that encompasses immunologic responses. AD is frequently associated with elevated immunoglobulin (Ig) E levels, and common environmental factors contribute to its pathogenesis. Several recent studies have documented the role of specific lactic acid bacteria in the treatment and prevention of AD in humans and mice. In this study, the efficacy of Duolac ATP, a probiotic preparation, was determined in a mouse model with AD-like skin lesions. Alterations in the cytokine levels and histological staining suggested the alleviation of AD. The in vivo test showed that T helper (Th)2 cytokines, IgE, interleukin (IL)-4, and IL-5, were significantly downregulated, whereas Th1 cytokines, IL-12p40 and interferon (IFN)-γ, were upregulated in all groups of mice treated with Duolac ATP compared to that observed in the group of mice treated with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB) alone. Moreover, the scratch score decreased in all mice treated with Duolac ATP. Staining of the dorsal area of the mice in each group with hematoxylin and eosin and toluidine blue further confirmed the alleviation of AD in mice orally treated with Duolac ATP. These results suggest that Duolac ATP inhibits the development of AD-like skin lesions in NC/Nga mice by suppressing the Th2 cell response and increasing the Th1 cell response. Thus, Duolac ATP is beneficial and effective for the treatment of AD-like skin lesions.
The choroid plexuses (CPs) form a protective interface between the blood and the ventricular cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). To probe into the pathways by which CPs provide brain protection, we sought to evaluate the efficiency of glutathione conjugation in this barrier as a mechanism to prevent the entry of blood-borne electrophilic, potentially toxic compounds into the CSF, and we investigated the fate of the resulting metabolites. Rat CPs, as well as human CPs from both fetal and adult brains, displayed high glutathione-S-transferase activities. Using an in vitro model of the blood-CSF barrier consisting of choroidal epithelial cells cultured in a two-chambered device, we showed that glutathione conjugation can efficiently prevent the entry of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) into the CSF, a model for electrophilic compounds. The duration of this enzymatic protection was set by the concentration of CDNB to which the epithelium was exposed, and this barrier effect was impaired only on severe epithelial intracellular glutathione and cysteine depletion. The conjugate was excreted from the choroidal cells in a polarized manner, mostly at the bloodfacing membrane, via a high-capacity transport process, which is not a rate-limiting step in this detoxification pathway, and which may involve transporters of the ATP-binding cassette c(Abcc) and/or solute carrier 21 (Slc21) families. Supplying the choroidal epithelium at the blood-facing membrane with a therapeutically relevant concentration of N-acetylcysteine sustained this neuroprotective effect. Thus, glutathione conjugation at the CP epithelium coupled with the basolateral efflux of the resulting metabolites form an efficient blood-CSF enzymatic barrier, which can be enhanced by pharmacologically increasing glutathione synthesis within the epithelial cells.
In this paper, we report a high enzymatic glutathione conjugation activity in both human and rodent choroidal tissues. Then, using a highly differentiated in vitro cellular model of the choroidal epithelium that allows to study transport, metabolic and polarized secretion processes at the blood-CSF barrier (Strazielle and Ghersi-Egea, 1999; Strazielle et al, 2003a, b) , we investigated the neuroprotective capability of this interface towards electrophilic, potentially toxic species, taking 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as a model for such molecules. We show that the CSF can be protected from blood-borne reactive molecules by a glutathione-dependent detoxification mechanism involving both a metabolic and a transport step, and that the efficiency of this neuroprotective choroidal function can be pharmacologically sustained.
Evidence is presented that ligandin, an intracellular protein involved in the binding of such anions as bilirubin, indocyanine green, and penicillin, is identical to glutathione S-transferase B (EC 2.5.1.18), an enzyme catalyzing the conjugation of glutathione with such electrophiles as 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, iodomethane, ethacrynic acid, and bromosulfophthalein. The proteins, isolated by distinct methods, have the same specificity for substrates and for ligands, react in identical fashion to antibody pioduced against ligandin, bear entirely sinlilar physical characteristics and amino acid composition, and are both induced in response to phenobarbital. Indocyanine green, one of the ligands that is not effective as a substrate, was showh to competitively inhibit the conjugation reaction. It is suggested that specificity is directed toward compounds with electrophilic sites.
Mice lacking the selenoprotein thioredoxin reductase 1 (TXNRD1) in liver manifested a dramatically higher incidence of tumor development than control mice expressing TXNRD1 when both mouse lines were treated with a liver carcinogen, DEN [30] . Tumors from the TXNRD1-deficient mice exhibited upregulated expression of enzymes involved in the GSH system and elevated levels of another selenoprotein, glutathione peroxidase 2 (GPX2), as well as an enrichment of additional nuclear factor (erythroid-derived 2)-like 2 (NRF2)-regulated enzymes. These increases in NRF2-regulated enzymes likely compensated for the oxidative burden of TXNRD1-deficient hepatoma cells once tumor formation occurred (see also [31] [32] [33] [34] [35] ). Lung epithelial cells, on the other hand, appear to utilize selenoproteins and selenium in a different manner than hepatocytes in protecting lung from oxidative stress and disease. The targeted removal of TXNRD1 in a mouse lung cancer cell line, LLC1 cells, resulted in the cells reversing many of their malignant properties to those more similar to normal cells, including a dramatic reduction in tumorigenic and metastatic properties [36] . The data suggested that the reduction in TXNRD1 levels in lung cancer cells is anti-tumorigenic. TXNRD1-deficient A549 human lung cancer cells, however, were found to have only minor changes in growth properties compared to control TXNRD1-sufficient cells, but no other apparent phenotypic alterations [37] . Even though the knockdown of TXNRD1 in these cells was almost 90%, the authors concluded that sufficient amounts of this enzyme remained to keep TXN in the reduced state. Interestingly, A549 TXNRD1-deficient cells were highly sensitive to the drugs, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and menadione, but not to auranofin and juglone, compared to control cells, suggesting roles of this selenoenzyme independent of TXN [37] .
The potential of the epithelial cells of the villus-to-crypt surface of the small intestine of the rat to conjugate xenobiotics was studied. The cells were isolated sequentially in the villus-to-crypt gradient and were found to exhibit heterogeneous distribution patterns and inducer-sensitivities of the conjugating enzymes and their cofactors. UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (GT) activities towards 3-hydroxybenzo[a]pyrene (GT1) and 4-hydroxybiphenyl (GT2) were present in all the cells. The mature upper villus cells were rich in both GT1 and GT2 activities, which declined toward the highly replicating undifferentiated crypt cells. The specific enzyme activities were four times lower in crypt cells than in upper villus cells. The presence of GT1 activity always predominated over GT2 activity. 3-Methylcholanthrene (3-MC) given orally increased GT1 activity by 2-fold in villus cells and about 6-fold in crypt cells, while phenobarbital sodium salt (PB) also markedly induced GT1 of the crypt region. Unlike GT1, GT2 activity was distinctly induced only by PB in all the cells. Both GT1 and GT2 of crypt cells were highly sensitive to inducers, in comparison to the villus cells. The uridine-5-diphosphoglucuronic acid (UDPGA) content ranged from about 0.07 to 0.2 mM in cells from crypts to villus-tip respectively. 3-MC caused a 3-fold increase in UDPGA content in all the cells; PB, however, did not affect UDPGA. The highest glutathione-S-transferase (GST) activity, however, was towards the substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene; the basal specific enzyme activity varied from about 0.05 to 0.2 mumol per min per mg protein in cells from crypt to upper villus. The enzyme was induced by both types of inducers, being about 2-fold in villus cells and 3- to 5-fold in crypt cells. In contrast, the GSH content was lower in cells with higher GST activity. The endogenous GSH content ranged from 0.8 mM in the upper-villus cells to 3 mM in the crypt cells. The GSH content, however, was not altered by 3-MC or PB treatment of rats. The results demonstrate that xenobiotic conjugation reactions in intestinal cells are much stronger than monooxygenase reactions. The differential and higher sensitivity of the intestinal cells to inducers appears to provide protection to the intestine against xenobiotics during intestinal "first pass".
Allergic contact dermatitis (ACD) is a hapten-specific CD4(+) T-cells mediated inflammatory response of the skin. Its pathomechanism involves 2 phases, an induction phase and an elicitation phase. Langerhans cells (LCs) and dendritic cells (DCs) in the skin play key roles in presenting low molecular weight chemicals (haptens) to the lymph nodes. Therefore, inhibition of the migration of LCs or DCs and T-cell proliferation is each expected to control ACD disease. To explore the effectiveness of paeoniflorin (PF) on the migration of LCs and T-cell proliferation in vivo, we establish a murine model of ACD, promoted by repeated exposure to an allergen (specifically 1-Chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB)). Administration of PF inhibits DC migration in this DNCB-induced model in the induction phase. As a result, epidermal LC density in the elicitation phase increased in PF-treated mice when compared to PF-untreated mice. At the same time, PF reduced IFN-γ(+)CD4(+) and IL-17(+)CD4(+) T cells proliferation (but not IL-4(+)CD4(+) T cells proliferation), leading to an attenuated cutaneous inflammatory response. Consistent with this T-cell proliferation profile, secretions of IFN-γ and IL-17 were reduced and IL-10 secretion increased in PF-treated mice, but production of IL-4 and IL-5 remained unchanged in the skin and blood samples. These results suggest that oral administration of PF can treat and prevent ACD effectively through inhibition of DC migration, and thus decrease the capacity of DCs to stimulate Th1 and Th17 cell differentiation and cytokine production.
Abstract A glutathione S -transferase (GST) was purified 266-fold from adult workers of the red imported fire ant, Solenopsis invicta (Hymenoptera: Formicidae) by affinity chromatography and preparative isoelectric focusing. The purified enzyme appeared as a single band on SDS-PAGE and had a M r of 25.5 kDa. Steady state kinetics assays of the enzyme with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate were conducted. The V max , K m CDNB , K m GSH , k cat , k cat / K m CDNB , and k cat / K m GSH for the purified fire ant GST were 87.4 μmol/min/mg, 0.13 mM, 0.84 mM, 74.5 s −1 , 573.1 mM −1 s −1 , and 88.7 mM −1 s −1 , respectively. An internal fragment of the enzyme, released by endoproteinase Lys-C digestion, was sequenced and used to design a degenerate oligonucleotide primer. Purified cDNA from a λ-phage expression library produced from worker fire ants was used as template to amplify a fragment of the GST transcript which was subsequently cloned and sequenced. 5′ and 3′ rapid amplification of cDNA ends were subsequently conducted after cDNA production by RT-PCR of mRNA from adult worker fire ants. An open reading frame comprising 202 amino acids with a calculated molecular weight of 23,433 and a theoretical p I of 7.84 was located within the transcript beginning at nucleotide 85 and terminating in a stop codon at nucleotide 691. The transcript contained 5′ and 3′ untranslated regions of 84 and 296 nucleotides, respectively. The sequences of the internal fragments from the purified fire ant GST were identical to corresponding translated regions of the transcript (nucleotides 214–258, and 457–477). Comparison of the deduced amino acid sequence with GSTs from other species revealed that the enzyme was most closely related to sigma class GSTs.
Glutathione transferases (GSTs) are a group of multifunction isoenzymes coded by many genes. A cDNA encoding a novel cytosolic GST enzyme was cloned from a Clonorchis sinensis (Cs) adult worm cDNA library by large-scale sequencing. This new cDNA contains 786 bp with a putative open reading frame of 212 amino acids. The deduced amino acid sequence exhibits 61% identity to C. sinensis cytosolic 28-kDa GST. Recombinant CsGST was overexpressed in Escherichia coli BL21(DE3) and was purified by Ni-NTA Agarose. Enzymatic assays showed that the recombinant CsGST had a high activity of 22.7 U mg(-1). The average K (m) of the CsGST for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene is 111 microM. Cibacron blue F3GA and albendazole inhibited the CsGST activity with respective average IC(50) of 1.1 and 247.1 microM. It provides a model for the structure and physiological function analysis on CsGST. The nucleotide sequence reported in this paper has been submitted to the GenBank Database with accession number DQ179264.
The level of quinone oxidoreductases (microsomal and cytosolic DT-diaphorase, NADPH-cytochrome P450 reductase and NADH-cytochrome b5 reductase), superoxide dismutase and glutathione-related enzymatic activities in diethylstilbestrol (DES)-induced carcinogenesis in kidney from Syrian golden hamsters are presented. Animals that exhibited two different stages of DES-induced carcinogenesis in kidney--pre- and neoplastic lesions and tumorous lesions (after 6 and 8 months of continuous exposure to DES respectively)--were studied in comparison to kidneys from control animals. A dramatic decrease in microsomal and cytosolic DT-diaphorase activities (13.6 and 37.8% of controls), as well as in glutathione disulphide reductase (39.5%), and less marked in superoxide dismutase (45.6%), NADH cytochrome b5 reductase (61.9%) glutathione transferase (GST) towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) (66.2%) and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) (80%) activities, were observed in kidneys with pre- and neoplastic lesions. NADPH-cytochrome P450 reductase and GST activity towards 4-hydroxy-2,3-trans-nonenal (4-HNE) showed no statistically significant variation at this stage of carcinogenesis. In kidney from animals with tumorous lesions, all the enzymatic activities mentioned above decreased, except for superoxide dismutase, which was increased to 186% of the control activity. GST activity towards 4-HNE again showed no statistically significant variation. These results suggest that if one-electron reduction of diethylstilbestrol-4',4''-quinone (DESQ) occurs, it may play a very important role in the development of DES carcinogenesis (pre- and neoplastic lesions), since at this stage of carcinogenesis the primary defense mechanisms against the oxygen free radicals generated in this way, i.e. SOD activity, is reduced to less than a half of control values. Both cytosolic and microsomal DT-diaphorase activities are unable at this stage of carcinogenesis to promote effectively the two-electron reduction of DESQ, which would avoid the initial formation of superoxide anion. The consequences of these decreases may be an increased steady-state concentration of superoxide anion and hydrogen peroxide, which in the presence of iron might lead to lipid peroxidation. GST activity towards 4-HNE could be responsible for the possible higher steady-state concentration of this lipid peroxidation product during DES treatment. The induction of DT-diaphorase and its protective role in the prevention of the development of pre- and neoplastic lesions in kidney from Syrian golden hamster during DES treatment is also discussed.
Cell glutathione scavenges free radicals, degrades peroxides, removes damaging electrophiles and maintains the redox state. The aim of this study was to develop an effective and efficient method to measure the rate of glutathione synthesis from its constituent amino acids in whole erythrocytes (RBCs). RBCs (10% haematocrit) were exposed to 0.3 mM 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) to lower their total glutathione content by 70% and then incubated with glucose, and N-acetylcysteine as a cysteine source. Over 3 h, glutathione levels increased at a constant rate of 1.2 micromol (L RBC)(-1)min(-1), almost 5 times faster than the rate of glutathione synthesis in RBCs with normal glutathione levels. Glutathione at concentrations normally found in RBCs is known to inhibit glutamate cysteine ligase (the major rate controlling enzyme for glutathione synthesis). The rate of glutathione recovery was substantially reduced in RBCs treated with buthionine sulfoximine, a specific inhibitor of glutamate cysteine ligase. Our results indicate that the measurement of glutathione recovery rate after CDNB treatment can be used to estimate de novo synthesis of glutathione. Application of this direct method for measuring glutathione synthesis will increase understanding of the interactions of effectors that determine glutathione levels in RBCs under various physiological and pathological conditions.
Abstract A glutathione S -transferase (GST) from Oryza sativa was purified to electrophoretic homogeneity approximately 742-fold with a 16% activity yield by DEAE-Sephacel and glutathione (GSH)-Sepharose column chromatography. The molecular weight of the enzyme was determined to be ≈23 000 by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and 48 000 by gel chromatography, indicating a homodimeric structure. The p I value of the enzyme was 6.4 by chromatofocusing using a Mono P column and the optimum pH was 7.5. The enzyme was retained on GSH affinity column and its K m value for GSH was 0.36 mM. The activity of the enzyme was significantly inhibited by S -hexyl-GSH and S -(2,4-dinitrophenyl)glutathione. The enzyme displayed activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, a general GST substrate and high activities towards 4-nitrophenethyl bromide and 1,2-epoxy-3-( p -nitrophenoxy) propane, a marker substrate for the theta-class GSTs. It also exhibited glutathione peroxidase activity toward cumene hydroperoxide.
The substrate specificity of purified rat liver glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) for a series of gamma-glutamyl-modified GSH analogues was investigated. GST isoenzyme 3-3 catalysed the conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene with six out of the nine analogues. alpha-L-Glu-L-Cys-Gly and alpha-D-Glu-L-Cys-Gly showed catalytic efficiencies of 40% and 130% that of GSH respectively. The GSH analogue with an alpha-D-glutamyl moiety appeared to be a highly isoenzyme-3-3-specific co-substrate: kcat./Km with GST isoenzyme 4-4 was only about 5% that with GST isoenzyme 3-3, and no enzymic activity was detectable with GST isoenzymes 1-1 and 2-2. GST isoenzyme 4-4 showed some resemblance to GST 3-3: five out of nine co-substrate analogues were accepted by this second isoenzyme of the Mu multigene family. Isoenzymes 1-1 and 2-2, of the Alpha multigene family, accepted only two alternative co-substrates, which indicates that their GSH-binding site is much more specific.
We report about the general biotransformation activity based on the activities of glutathione S-transferases (GST's: EC 2.5.1.18) on different model substrates, of five species of the macrophyte genera Myriophyllum (M. hippuroides, M. mattogrossense, M. aquaticum, M. quitense, M. verticillatwn), under controlled conditions of water quality, temperature and photoperiod. The model substrates for the GST's we employed were 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), 4-nitrophenyl-2-nitro-4-trifluoromethyl phenyl ether (Fluorodifen, FL), 2,4-dichlor-1-nitrobenzene (DCNB), para-nitrobenzoylchloride (pNBC), 1,2-epoxy-3-(4-nitrophenoxy)propane (EPNP) and ethacrynic acid (EA). All species showed response to all GST conjugating substrates in the cytosol, except M. hippuroides and M. verticillatum which showed no conjugation reaction with DCNB. The use of different model substrates give an insight on basic biotransformation capacity of the different macrophyte species. This might indicate which species may have enhanced ability to handle xenobiotics of different molecular structure. Under maintenance in our standard testing medium and conditions the biotransformation profile of all analyzed species show that highest GST-activities were measured using ethacrynic acid and fluorodifen as conjugating substrates. This suggests that they are well equipped to conjugate xenobiotics of different structures.
The main result of reaction between 2-bromonitrobenzene and copper(I) oxide in boiling pyridine was Ullmanntype coupling, giving up to 70% of 2,2′-dinitrobiphenyl; other products were 2-nitrophenol (0–40%), nitrobenzene (0–70%), and bis-2-nitrophenylamine (ca. 1%), formed via 2-nitroaniline resulting from opening of the pyridine ring. Brief reaction of 1-bromo- or 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene under similar conditions produced 2,4-dinitroaniline. Reactions like those of 2-bromonitrobenzene were shown by some other ortho-nitrosubstituted aryl bromides or iodides, and by methyl ortho-iodobenzoate. If the appropriate element was added to reaction mixtures, biaryl formation (ArHal → ArAr) was suppressed in favour of formation of the aryl derivatives Ar2Hg, Ar2Se2(or Ar2Se), and Ar2Te. Good yields of the biaryl were produced by use of copper metal or copper(I) sulphide (also giving Ar2S) in place of the oxide, but not by copper(I) halides. Effects of various additives are reported and a mechanistic scheme is suggested.
Abstract Glutathione S -transferases (GSTs) are essential drug-metabolizing enzymes, involved in conjugation of various endogenous and exogenous substrates. Cynomolgus macaque is an important primate species in drug metabolism studies; however, cynomolgus GSTs have not been fully characterized. In this study the cDNAs of 12 GSTs (GSTA3-A5, GSTK1, GSTM2-M4, GSTO2, GSTP1, GSTS1, and GSTT1/2) were isolated from cynomolgus macaque and rhesus macaque liver. Cynomolgus GSTM1 cDNA was not amplified and only an aberrantly spliced GSTM1 transcript was isolated from rhesus macaque. Amino acid sequences of these 12 GSTs shared high sequence identities (93–98%) and were clustered into the same clades as the human orthologs in the phylogenetic tree. The 12 GSTs had exon–intron structures similar to the human orthologs, and exhibited distinct tissue expression patterns. GSTA3 , GSTA5 , and GSTM3 / O2 were expressed predominantly in adrenal gland, jejunum, and testis, respectively, whereas the other GSTs showed universal expression patterns in the 10 tissues analyzed. Comparison of expression levels showed that GSTA1 , GSTK1 , GSTA3 , and GSTM3 were most abundantly expressed in liver/jejunum, kidney, adrenal gland, and testis, respectively. Metabolic assays of proteins expressed heterologously in Escherichia coli , showed that all 12 GSTs and 5 previously identified GSTs, GSTA1/2, GSTM5, GSTO1, and GSTZ1, catalyzed the conjugation of GST substrate(s) 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and/or 1,2-epoxy-3-( p -nitrophenoxy)propane, indicating that these 17 GSTs are functional drug-metabolizing enzymes. These results suggest that the 12 GST genes examined in this study are expressed and encoded functional enzymes in cynomolgus macaque.
Glutathione-S-transferases (GST) are multifunctional enzymes (cytosolic, mitochondrial and microsomal) involved in the metabolism of a broad range of xenobiotics including carcinogens and endogenous compounds. These enzymes catalyze the nucleophilic reaction of reduced glutathione with nonpolar compounds that contain electrophilic carbon, nitrogen, or sulphur atom. GSTs are also involved in the biosynthesis of leukotrienes, prostaglandins, testosterone, progesterone, and degradation of tyrosine. GSTs are important in antiasthmatic and antitumor therapy too because these cells are able to metabolize both cancer chemotherapeutic agents, carcinogens and products of oxidative stress. In contrast, decreased levels of GST may lead to the formation of various tumors. GST activity is mostly determined by spectrophotometric method at 340 nm. This setting uses the standard substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, which is suitable for ?, ? and ?-class GST isoenzymes, glutathione is used as a co-substrate. The rate of increase of absorbance is directly proportional to GST activity in the sample. The aim of this study was to estimate the influence of various parameters of the method (temperature, pH, incubation time, buffer type) on the activity of glutathione-Stransferase in rat hepatocytes lysates and in purified equine GST. We determined the optimal parameters of the method: potassium phosphate buffer pH 7.4, T = 21 ° C. We also estimated an influence of various concentrations of GSH and CDNB; interestingly, the concentration of CDNB higher than 3.6 mmol/l was observed to decrease the final GST activity. GST is stable at 4 °C for 24 hours, but repeated freeze/thaw cycles caused lost of the activity. Furthermore, the inhibitory influence of ethacrynic acid on GST activity was assessed. The activity in samples and standards, expressed as U/mg protein, was compared with the control activity and expressed as a percentage ratio of the control signal. When using 50 mM EA concentration, GST activity in samples and standards decreased to 14 % of the control signal. The advantage of this assay is time modesty, thus the possibility of measuring large numbers of samples within a short time. Micromolar concentration of ethacrynic acid could be used in cell cultures, despite their type, to inhibition of GST activity in vitro.
Abstract Glutathione S -transferases from rat lung cytosol were purified about 200-fold in one step by chromatography on S -hexylglutathione bound to epoxy-activated Sepharose 6B. Further purification on hydroxyapatite resolved the lung transferases into five peaks of activity as measured with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate. Three of the peaks were identified with transferases A, B, and C of rat liver on the basis of chromatographic properties, immunochemical reactivity, and substrate specificity. The other two activity peaks were not detectable in liver: one originated from the lung tissue and one appeared to result from blood in the lung.
Abstract Glutathione S-transferases containing Yb3 subunits are relatively uncommon forms that are expressed in a tissue-specific manner and have not been identified unequivocally or characterized. A cDNA clone containing the entire coding sequence of Yb3 glutathione S-transferase mRNA was incorporated into a pIN-III expression vector used to transform Escherichia coli. A fusion Yb3-protein containing 14 additional amino acid residues at its N terminus was purified to homogeneity. Recombinant Yb3 was enzymatically active with both 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene as substrates but lacked glutathione peroxidase activity. Substrate specificity patterns of recombinant Yb3 were more limited than those of glutathione S-transferase isoenzymes containing Yb1- or Yb2-type subunits. Peptides corresponding to unique amino acid sequences of Yb3 as well as a peptide from a region of homology with Yb1 and Yb2 subunits were synthesized. These synthetic peptides were used to raise antibodies specific to Yb3 and others that cross-reacted with all Yb forms. Immunoblotting was utilized to identify the natural counterpart of recombinant Yb3 among rat glutathione transferases. Brain and testis glutathione S-transferases were rich in Yb3 subunits, but very little was found in liver or kidney. Physical properties, substrate specificities, and binding patterns of the recombinant protein paralleled properties of the natural isoenzyme isolated from brain.
The hepatic transformation of glyceryl trinitrate (GTN), commonly known as nitroglycerin, was studied in subcellular fractions prepared from rabbit livers. Both the cytosolic and microsomal fractions show activity toward GTN metabolism. Moreover, the formation of glyceryl dinitrates (GDNs) seems to be governed by different enzymatic processes in the two fractions. 1,2-GDN was preferentially formed in cytosolic fractions, whereas in microsomal fractions, 1,3-GDN was the predominant product. In cytosolic fractions, increasing starting concentrations of GTN led to a decrease in both the GTN degradation rate and the GDN ratio (1,2-GDN/1,3-GDN), which was mainly accounted for by saturation of the 1,2-GDN formation pathway. Various glutathione S-transferase (GST) inhibitors affected the rate of GDN formation differentially. In cytosolic fractions, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and iodomethane caused no change in the GDN ratio, while sulfobromophthalein, ethacrynic acid, and p-nitrobenzyl chloride decreased the GDN ratio, suggesting that different GST isozymes are inhibited by these agents. In microsomal fractions, no dose-dependent GTN metabolism and related change in the GDN ratios could be observed. With the exception of ethacrynic acid, addition of GST inhibitors did not decrease GDN metabolite production, and even in this case, no change in the GDN ratio was observed. The results suggest that different GTN metabolic pathways are present in the liver, most likely involving different GST isozymes.
Human liver microsomal glutathione transferase displays the following glutathione peroxidase/transferase activities: dilinoleoylphosphatidylcholine hydroperoxide (0.03 and 0.17 mumol/min.mg, unactivated and N-ethylmaleimide-activated enzyme, respectively), linoleic acid hydroperoxide (0.09 and 0.15 mumol/min.mg), cumene hydroperoxide (0.04 and 3 mumol/min.mg), methyl linoleate ozonide (0.02 and 1.2 mumol/min.mg) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (1.9 and 24 mumol/min.mg). The activation of glutathione peroxidase activities are much higher than previously observed. The activity towards a phospholipid hydroperoxide is noteworthy since protection against lipid peroxidation has been implied. Methyl linoleate ozonide has not previously been characterised as substrate for any microsomal glutathione transferase. Human liver microsomal glutathione transferase displays an isoelectric point of 9.4 and a structure in agreement with that deduced from the cDNA sequence. Gel electrophoretic analysis shows that proteolytic activation of the human enzyme corresponds to cleavage at Lys-41, thus defining the critical activation site.
A major detoxification pathway used by aerobic organisms involves the conjugation of the tripeptide glutathione (GSH) to the electrophilic center of toxic substances. This reaction is catalyzed by a class of enzymes referred to as the glutathione S-transferases (GST) (EC 2.5.1.18). These enzymes activate the cysteine thiol group of GSH for nucleophilic addition to a variety of substrates, including aryl halides, {alpha}{beta}-unsaturated aldehydes and ketones, and epoxides. Despite the availability of X-ray crystal structures, the mechanism whereby glutathione transferases catalyze these addition reactions remains unclear. In order to gain a greater understanding of this important biological transformation, as well as to generate new detoxification catalysts, we have asked whether antibodies can be generated that catalyze similar nucleophilic addition reactions. Our initial efforts focused on the addition reaction of thiol nucleophiles to the nitro-substituted styrene derivative 1. The ratio of k{sub cat}/K{sub m} reported for the reaction of the isozyme 4-4` of rat liver GST with the good substance, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, is approximately 10{sup 4} M{sup -1} s{sup -1} compared to a calculated pseudo-first-order rate constant for the uncatalyzed reaction of approximately 3 x 10{sup -2} s{sup -1} (60 mM GSH, pH = 80). These comparisons suggest that with further improvements inmore » hapten design, catalytic antibodies may prove a good source of detoxification catalysts. 19 refs., 1 fig.« less
The present study examines the effects of thiabendazole (TBZ), its metabolites, 5-hydroxythiabendazole (5-OH TBZ) and 2-acetylbenzimidazole (ABI), and structural related compounds, thiazoles and thioamides on glutathione (GSH) concentration and GSH-related enzymes in the livers of ICR 11 week-old female mice. GSH concentration in liver and kidney of mice given orally TBZ 0.65 mol/kg (TBZ group) increased significantly compared with control mice from 24 h to 48 h after administration of TBZ. Even in mice to which TBZ at 0.175 mol/kg was administered in combination with L-buthionine sulfoximine (BSO) 4 mmol/kg (i.p.) (BSO-TBZ group), kidney GSH showed significant increase compared with BSO-control mice 48 h after the administration of TBZ. gamma-Glutamylcysteine synthetase (gamma-GCS) activity in the livers of the TBZ group markedly increased at 48 h and that of BSO-TBZ group increased from 24 h to 48 h. gamma-GCS in mice liver is thus enhanced by TBZ regardless of BSO administration. Hepatic glutathione peroxidase activity of the TBZ group did not change in response to cumene hydroperoxide assubstrate. That of BSO-treated mice decreased by TBZ-coadministration and significant differences was noted between BSO-control and BSO-TBZ group from 1 h to 48 h later. Hepatic glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity toward 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB) was significantly elevated 24 h after administrations of TBZ in TBZ and BSO-TBZ groups. GST activity toward 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy) propane of TBZ group increased from 0.5 h to 24 h. Hepatic GST activity toward DCNB and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene did not change by administration of 0.65 mol/kg 5-OH TBZ or ABI but increased by administrations of 0.33 mol/kg of thiazole, 4-methylthiazole, 4,5-dimethylthiazole or 2,4-dimethylthiazole. Increase in GSH concentration and GST activity in mice liver by TBZ administration may be considered to provide protection from TBZ or its active metabolites.
Glutathione S-transferase was isolated from supernatant of camel kidney homogenate centrifugation at 37,000 xg by glutathione agarose affinity chromatography. The enzyme preparation has a specific activity of 44 mumol/min/mg protein and recovery was more than 85% of the enzyme activity in the crude extract. Glutathione agarose affinity chromatography resulted in a purification factor of about 49 and chromatofocusing resolved the purified enzyme into two major isoenzymes (pI 8.7 and 7.9) and two minor isoenzymes (pI 8.3 and 6.9). The homogeneity of the purified enzyme was analyzed by sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and gel filtration on Sephadex G-100. The different isoenzymes were composed of a binary combination of two subunits with molecular weight of 29,000 D and 26,000 D to give a native molecular weight of 55,000 D. The substrate specificities of the major camel kidney glutathione S-transferase isoenzymes were determined towards a range of substrates. 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was the preferred substrate for all the isoenzymes. Isoenzyme III (pI 7.9) had higher specific activity for ethacrynic acid and isoenzyme II (pI 8.3) was the only isoenzyme that exhibited peroxidase activity. Ouchterlony double-diffusion analysis with rabbit antiserum prepared against the camel kidney enzyme showed fusion of precipitation lines with the enzymes from camel brain, liver and lung and no cross reactivity was observed with enzymes from kidneys of sheep, cow, rat, rabbit and mouse. Different storage conditions have been found to affect the enzyme activity and the loss in activity was marked at room temperature and upon repeated freezing and thawing.
Abstract Glutathione S -transferase (GST) activity assays in insects are usually performed by spectrophotometric kinetic measurements of conjugated product formation with substrates such as reduced glutathione (GSH) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). This requires a spectrophotometer that can measure absorbance in the UV range and microcentrifugation to remove the particulates from crude homogenates which absorb light at 340 nm. Such an assay is not ideal for detecting elevated levels of GST activity in insects under field conditions, which is a requirement in, for example, insecticide resistance management programs. We have developed a simple quantitative assay for visually determining GST activity in individual insects. The substrates GSH and CDNB are used in this assay. After the linear enzyme reaction has run for a fixed time, free GSH is determined stoichiometrically by iodometric titration. The results can be determined visually from the discrete color change. We demonstrate the equivalence of this iodometric end point assay and the standard kinetic assay for a five-fold range of purified recombinant Anopheles gambiae agGST1-6 enzyme concentrations and for crude homogenates of individual insects. Results of the application of this test in the diagnosis of GST-based insecticide resistance are presented, demonstrating its practicality for field use.
Nephrotoxic haloalkenes undergo glutathione- and cysteine conjugate beta-lyase-dependent bioactivation, and glutathione S-conjugate formation with haloalkenes as substrates is preferentially catalyzed by the hepatic microsomal glutathione S-transferase (mGST). Porcine kidney-derived LLC-PK1 cells, which are competent to bioactivate glutathione and cysteine S-conjugates of haloalkenes, show low mGST activity. Stable transfection of LLC-PK1 cells with the gene encoding mGST would be expected to increase glutathione S-conjugate formation and, therefore, to increase haloalkene cytotoxicity. Transfection of LLC-PK1 cells with human mGST genes resulted in increased expression of mGST protein in microsomal fractions, in increased glutathione S-conjugate formation with hexachloro-1,3-butadiene and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as the substrates, and in increased cytotoxicity of hexachloro-1,3-butadiene. In addition, transfection with mGST gene also increased the activity of cytosolic glutathione S-transferases.
BACKGROUND ::: Recent work has shown that two codling moth (Cydia pomonella) glutathione S-transferase genes (GSTs), CpGSTd1 and CpGSTd3, can metabolize λ-cyhalothrin, one of the recommended insecticides for C. pomonella control worldwide. However, systematical characterization of delta and epsilon GSTs, especially their potential contributions in metabolism of λ-cyhalothrin is currently still lacking in C. pomonella. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: In this study, a total of nine cDNA sequences were identified in C. pomonella, including 4 in the delta, 5 in epsilon subclasses. RT-qPCR showed that 7 GSTs were ubiquitously expressed at all developmental stages, and CpGSTe2, CpGSTe3, and CpGSTe4 were mainly expressed in larvae. The mRNA levels of CpGSTd2, CpGSTd4 and CpGSTe5 were significantly higher in male than in female adults. Tissue-specific expression analysis revealed that the CpGSTe2, CpGSTe3, and CpGSTe4 were highly expressed in the midgut while CpGSTd2 and CpGSTd4 were predominantly expressed in the Malpighian tubules. The transcripts of these GSTs (except CpGSTe1) were co-expressed following exposure to LD10 of λ-cyhalothrin for 3 h. Recombinant CpGSTd4, CpGSTe2, and CpGSTe3 proteins expressed in Escherichia coli displayed glutathione-conjugating activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). In addition, λ-cyhalothrin could inhibit the activity of recombinant CpGSTd4, CpGSTe2, and CpGSTe3 enzymes, but only recombinant CpGSTe3 showed λ-cyhalothrin metabolic capacity, with 21.88±1.09 % of parental compound being depleted within 1 h. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: These data show that CpGSTe3 is a third GST gene, encoding an enzyme that metabolizes λ-cyhalothrin in C. pomonella. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
Control of the tarnished plant bug, Lygus lineolaris (Palisot de Beauvois), in cotton in the mid-South relies heavily on pesticides, mainly organophosphates. Continuous and dominant use of chemical sprays has facilitated resistance development in the tarnished plant bug. A natural population in Mississippi with resistance to malathion was studied to examine whether and how glutathione S-transferases (GST) played an important role in the resistance. Bioassays were first conducted to examine synergism of two GST inhibitors. Both ethacrynic acid (EA) and diethyl maleate (DM) effectively abolished resistance and increased malathion toxicity against two resistant strains by more than 2- and 3-fold, whereas incorporation of GST inhibitors did not significantly increase malathion toxicity against a susceptible strain. GST activities were compared in vitro between malathion susceptible and resistant strains by using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as a GST substrate. The resistant strain had significantly higher (1.5-fold) GST activity than the susceptible strain. Up to 99%, 75%, and 85% of the GST activities were inhibited by EA, sulfobromophthalein (SBT), and DM, respectively. The GST activities tended to increase from May to October by 1.76-fold. All three inhibitors significantly suppressed the GST activity to a constant low level over the season. Further examination of GST cDNA indicated that in the coding region only one nucleotide variation was revealed between the susceptible and resistant strain. This variation did not cause a protein sequence change, and an identical amino acid sequence was predicted for both strains. Multiple sequence alignment and phylogenetic analysis showed that the 216-residue GST from the tarnished plant bug was highly similar (up to 68% of amino acid sequence identity) to the GSTs from other insects, which conferred organophosphate resistance. GST gene expression levels were examined using real-time PCR, and the results indicated that GST gene transcripts were elevated in the resistant strain by 1.3-fold.
Abstract Two simple and sensitive kinetic methods for the determination of ampicillin (AMP) are described. The first method is based on kinetic investigation of the oxidation reaction of the drug with alkaline potassium permanganate at room temperature for a fixed time of 25 min. The absorbance of the colored manganate ions is measured at 610 nm. The second method is based on the reaction of AMP with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) in the presence of 0.1 mol L −1 sodium bicarbonate. Spectrophotometric measurement was achieved by recording the absorbance at 490 nm for a fixed time of 60 min. All variables affecting the development of the color were investigated and the conditions were optimized. Plots of absorbance against concentration in both procedures were rectilinear over the ranges 5–30 and 50–260 μg mL −1 , with mean recoveries 99.80 and 99.91, respectively. The proposed methods were successfully applied for the determination of AMP in bulk powder and in capsule dosage form. The determination of AMP by the fixed concentration method is feasible with the calibration equations obtained, but the fixed time method proves to be more applicable.
Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a chronic inflammatory skin disease in humans. In this study, we evaluated the effects of a mixture (NCM 1921) of omega-3 butter, omega-3 beef tallow oil, omega-3 lard oil, caprylic acid, lauric acid, choline, and Fe on AD in 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB)-treated NC/Nga mice. NCM 1921 significantly ameliorated the macroscopic and microscopic signs and reduced skin thickness and mast cell incorporation in the skin lesions of mice with DNCB-induced AD. Furthermore, it reduced serum immunoglobulin E levels; reduced the number of IgE-producing B cells, peripheral blood mononuclear cells, white blood cells, and differential white blood cells; and increased the number of lymphocytes. NCM 1921 normalized the total cell number in dorsal skin tissue, the axillary lymph node, and spleen following DNCB exposure and reduced the number of CD23+/B220+ cells in the axillary lymph node and CD3+ cells in dorsal skin tissue. Moreover, it reduced the levels of interleukin (IL)-4 and IL-13 but increased the levels of interferon-γ in anti-CD3-stimulated splenocytes. Immunohistofluorescence staining showed that NCM 1921 treatment significantly increased claudin1, filaggrin, and Sirt1 protein expressions in AD skin lesions. These results suggest that NCM 1921 could be a valuable remedy for the treatment of AD.
The in vitro interaction of four chlorophenoxyalkyl (CPA) acid herbicides with rat-liver glutathione S-transferase (GST) was studied using reduced glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrates. Inhibition of GST activity by the CPA acids in crude extracts was dose dependent. Ring substitution and side-chain length were shown to be of importance in determining the extent of GST inhibition. While GST AA, an isoenzyme of GST, was stimulated by two CPA acids, each of the other GST isoenzymes (A, B, C, E and M) was inhibited, to different degrees. Kinetic studies revealed a mixed type inhibition of the isoenzymes. Conjugates of CPA acids with glutathione were not formed. These results indicate that CPA acids interact with GST by binding directly to these proteins, possibly at a different locus from that of the substrate. The binding of CPA acids to GST may, therefore, have a protective function against these herbicides.
Plasmodium berghei infection in Mastomys natalensis impaired the hepatic mitochondrial, microsomal and cytosolic glutathione-S-transferase(s) activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate. The enzyme activity was concomitantly decreased with rise in parasitaemia. The decreased enzyme activity due to infection was almost normalized with oral treatment of 16 mg (kg body wt)-1 of chloroquine for 4 days.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are an important enzyme family which play a critical role in detoxification system. In our study, GST was purified from muscle tissue of Chalcalburnus tarichii Pallas with 301.5-fold purification and 19.07% recovery by glutathione agarose affinity chromatography. The purity of enzyme was checked by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, showing a two band, because of having heterodimer structure. KM values were 1.59 and 0.53 mM for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and glutathione (GSH), respectively. Vmax values for CDNB and GSH were also determined as 5.58 and 1.88 EU/mL, respectively. In addition, inhibition effects of Ag(+), Cu(2+), Cd(2+), Fe(3+), Pb(2+), Cr(2+), Co(2+) and Zn(2+) metal ions were investigated on the enzyme activity and IC50, Ki values were calculated for these metal ions.
Gender-related differences and the regulation by testosterone of glutathione S-transferase were studied in rat jejunum. We analyzed enzyme activity and the relative content of GST subunits. Four experimental groups of adult rats were studied: normal males, castrated males, castrated males injected with testosterone and normal females. Glutathione S-transferase activity was assayed using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene as substrates. Differences in subunit composition among groups were evaluated by western blot analysis. The results demonstrated that 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene conjugation rate is higher in normal males than in normal females and castrated males. Testosterone administration to castrated males raised the activity up to the level observed in normal males. No significant difference in glutathione S-transferase activity towards 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene was observed among groups. Western blot analysis revealed that males and females differ in all subunits tested that is, rGSTA2, rGSTM1, rGSTM2 and rGSTP1, and that testosterone regulates the content of rGSTM1, rGSTM2 and rGSTP1. In conclusion, jejunal GST shows a gender-dependent regulation affecting both enzyme activity and subunit composition, and testosterone appears to be one of the factors involved.
This study compares the abilities of the glutathione (GSH) and thioredoxin (Trx) antioxidant systems in defending cultured human lens epithelial cells (LECs) against UVA light. Levels of GSH were depleted with either L-buthionine-(S,R)-sulfoximine (BSO) or 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). CDNB treatment also inhibited the activity of thioredoxin reductase (TrxR). Two levels of O2 , 3% and 20%, were employed during a 1 h exposure of the cells to 25 J cm(-2) of UVA radiation (338-400 nm wavelength, peak at 365 nm). Inhibition of TrxR activity by CDNB, combined with exposure to UVA light, produced a substantial loss of LECs and cell damage, with the effects being considerably more severe at 20% O2 compared to 3%. In contrast, depletion of GSH by BSO, combined with exposure to UVA light, produced only a slight cell loss, with no apparent morphological effects. Catalase was highly sensitive to UVA-induced inactivation, but was not essential for protection. Although UVA light presented a challenge for the lens epithelium, it was well tolerated under normal conditions. The results demonstrate an important role for TrxR activity in defending the lens epithelium against UVA light, possibly related to the ability of the Trx system to assist DNA synthesis following UVA-induced cell damage.
Atopic dermatitis (AD) is an allergic, inflammatory skin disease characterized by chronic eczema and mechanical injury to the skin, caused by scratching. Korean red ginseng (RG) has diverse biological activities, but the molecular effects of RG on allergic diseases, like AD, are unclear. The present study was designed to investigate whether RG inhibits 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB)-induced AD in a mouse model. DNCB was applied topically on the dorsal surface of Balb/c mice to induce AD-like skin lesions. We observed the scratching behavior and examined the serum IgE level and interleukin (IL)-4 and IL-10 in splenocytes compared with dexamethasone. We also evaluated the DNCB-induced mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), NF-κB, and Ikaros activities after RG treatment using reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, Western blotting, and ELISA. Our data showed that the topical application of RG significantly improved the AD-like skin lesions and scratching behavior. RG decreased not only the mRNA expression of IL-4 and IL-10, but also the secretion of IL-4 protein and serum IgE in mice. Additionally, RG treatment decreased the DNCB-induced MAPKs activity and subsequent Ikaros translocation irrespective of NF-κB. We suggest that RG may be useful as a therapeutic nutrition for the treatment of AD.
The C-terminal region in class alpha glutathione transferases (GSTs) modulates the catalytic and nonsubstrate ligand binding functions of these enzymes. Except for mouse GST A1-1 (mGST A1-1), the structures of class alpha GSTs have a bulky aliphatic side chain topologically equivalent to Ile219 in human GST A1-1 (hGST A1-1). In mGST A1-1, the corresponding residue is an alanine. To investigate the role of Ile219 in determining the conformational dynamics of the C-terminal region in hGST A1-1, the residue was replaced by alanine. The substitution had no effect on the global structure of hGST A1-1 but did reduce the conformational stability of the C-terminal region of the protein. This region could be stabilized by ligands bound at the active site. The catalytic behavior of hGST A1-1 was significantly compromised by the I219A mutation as demonstrated by reduced enzyme activity, increased K(m) for the substrates glutathione (GSH) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), and reduced catalytic efficiencies. Inhibition studies also indicated that the binding affinities for product and substrate analogues were dramatically decreased. The affinity of the mutant for GSH was, however, only slightly increased, indicating that the G-site was unaltered by the mutation. The binding affinity and stoichiometry for the anionic dye 8-anilino-1-naphthalene sulfonate (ANS) was also not significantly affected by the I219A mutation. However, the lower DeltaC(p) for ANS binding to the mutant (-0.34 kJ/mol per K compared with -0.84 kJ/mol per K for the wild-type protein) suggests that ANS binding to the mutant results in the burial of less hydrophobic surface area. Fluorescence data also indicates that ANS bound to the mutant is more prone to quenching by water. Overall, the data from this study, together with the structural details of the C-terminal region in mGST A1-1, show that Ile219 is an important structural determinant of the stability and dynamics of the C-terminal region of hGST A1-1.
H69AR is a multidrug-resistant small cell lung cancer cell line derived from a drug-sensitive cell line, H69, by selection in doxorubicin. It is cross-resistant to a wide variety of natural product-type antineoplastic agents but does not overexpress P-glycoprotein. In the present study, the levels of GSH and GSH-related enzymes in the H69AR cell line were determined and compared with those found in H69 cells. Unlike other drug-resistant cell lines, GSH levels were diminished 6-fold in H69AR cells (0.67 +/- 0.28 microgram/mg of protein), compared with H69 cells (4.23 +/- 1.17 micrograms/mg of protein) (p less than 0.01). This unusually low level of GSH may explain the pronounced collateral sensitivity of H69AR cells to buthionine sulfoximine (BSO), an inhibitor of the rate-limiting enzyme in GSH biosynthesis (ID50 of 4.4 microM BSO for H69AR cells versus ID50 of 300 microM BSO for H69 cells). BSO did not enhance doxorubicin cytotoxicity in the H69AR cell line, despite further depletion of GSH. GSH-reductase (EC 1.6.4.2) activity was elevated 2-fold in H69AR cells, compared with sensitive H69 cells (75.34 +/- 14.94 versus 38.62 +/- 5.06 nmol of NADPH/min/mg of protein) (p less than 0.05). Both selenium-dependent and -independent GSH-peroxidase (EC 1.11.1.9) activities were unchanged in the resistant H69AR cell line, compared with its parent cell line. gamma-Glutamyl transpeptidase (EC 2.3.2.2) activity was 5-fold elevated in H69AR cells, compared with H69 cells (2.50 +/- 0.44 versus 0.46 +/- 0.21 nmol of p-nitroaniline/min/mg of protein) (p less than 0.01), whereas GSH-S-transferase (EC 2.5.1.18) activity was 10-fold higher (201.98 +/- 43.62 versus 19.77 +/- 1.72 nmol of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene/min/mg of protein in H69AR and H69 cells, respectively) (p less than 0.01). The GSH-S-transferases from both cell lines were purified by affinity chromatography and immunoblot analysis identified the GSH-S-transferases as belonging to the anionic pi class. GSH-S-transferases from the mu or alpha classes were not detectable in either cell line. In conclusion, marked differences in GSH levels and the activities of three of four GSH-related enzymes were observed between the multidrug-resistant H69AR cell line and its parent cell line. Further study is required to determine whether these changes are causally related to the development of drug resistance in this model system.
The hepatic cytosolic glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity in four strains of the mouse and one strain of the rat was studied with the substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB), ethachrynic acid (ETHA), cumene hydroperoxide (CU) and atrazine as the in vitro substrates. In the mouse, significant gender, strain and age-related differences in the GST activity towards CDNB and atrazine were found between adolescent and sexually mature males and females of the CD-1, C57BL/6, DBA/2 and Swiss-Webster strains, and the differences were larger with atrazine as the substrate. With DCNB and CU a similar tendency was observed, however not significant for all strains. The GST activity towards ETHA was also gender and strain specific, but revealed no age-related differences. The herbicide atrazine seems to be a useful substrate in the study of strain and age-related differences in the mouse GST class Pi.
We recently reported that co-administration to female mice of tamoxifen or 4-hydroxytamoxifen (4-OH-tamoxifen) with pentachlorophenol (PCP), but not with 2,6-dichloro-4-nitrophenol (DNCP) results in strong intensification of a specific subgroup, termed group I, of tamoxifen-DNA adducts in female mouse liver. As both PCP and DCNP are sulfotransferase inhibitors, we concluded that the intensification of tamoxifen group I adducts is probably not due to inhibition of sulfation by these phenols of a tamoxifen metabolite. Since epoxide derivatives of 4-OH-tamoxifen are potential candidates involved in tamoxifen-induced DNA damage, the hypothesis was developed and tested that PCP inhibits epoxide detoxication. As 4-OH-tamoxifen metabolites were unavailable to us, we employed indirect approaches to test this hypothesis. In the first set of experiments we determined whether PCP would augment DNA adduct formation from the benzo[a]pyrene metabolite, 9-hydroxybenzo[a]pyrene (9-OH-BP), as 9-OH-BP-4,5-epoxide is known to be involved in the metabolic activation of this compound. Female mice were given a single i.p. dose of 9-OH-BP (50 mumol/kg) either alone or in combination with PCP (75 mumol/kg), and hepatic DNA adducts were measured 24 h later by nuclease P1-enhanced bisphosphate 32P-postlabeling. Co-administration of PCP with 9-OH-BP resulted in a statistically significant 1.5- to 1.7-fold increase in 9-OH-BP adduct levels versus 9-OH-BP controls. In order to determine whether PCP inhibits the enzymatic detoxication of epoxides in vitro, in a second set of experiments, the effects of PCP on liver microsomal epoxide hydrolase (mEH) and purified equine liver glutathione S-transferase (GST) activities were studied using, respectively, styrene-7,8-oxide and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrates. Incubation of mouse liver microsomes with PCP (10-100 microM) strongly inhibited (by 21-97%) mEH activity in a dose-dependent manner, the IC50 being 35 microM. DCNP was ineffective as a mEH inactivator. PCP also inhibited purified equine liver GST activity, with an IC50 of 23.5 microM. Taken together, the results of this study strongly support the hypothesis that PCP inhibited enzymatic detoxication of epoxides in vivo and in vitro. By this mechanism PCP would lead to enhancement of DNA damage caused by 9-OH-BP, and possibly other drugs and their metabolites, which undergo epoxidation prior to DNA binding.
In Chinese hamster fibroblasts, we previously detected an expressed gene located near the AMP deaminase gene. This gene was named Y1. Upon selection for resistance to coformycin, an inhibitor of AMP deaminase activity, both genes were amplified in several mutants. We have determined the complete nucleotide sequence of Y1 cDNA and identified the Y1 gene as a mu class glutathione S-transferase gene by comparison with sequences present in a data bank. Accordingly, Y1-amplified mutants express an increased glutathione S-transferase activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene; this activity, as well as the abundance of the corresponding RNA, appears, however, to reach a limit despite further increase in the Y1 gene copy number during successive amplification steps. Southern blot experiments showed that Y1 belongs to a multigene family, all or part of which has been amplified in mutant lines. These data provide a method to amplify and to overexpress the mu class of the glutathione S-transferase gene family on the basis of its linkage with the AMP deaminase gene.
Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a chronic inflammatory skin disease in humans. In this study, we evaluated the effects of a mixture (NCM 1921) of omega-3 butter, omega-3 beef tallow oil, omega-3 lard oil, caprylic acid, lauric acid, choline, and Fe on AD in 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB)-treated NC/Nga mice. NCM 1921 significantly ameliorated the macroscopic and microscopic signs and reduced skin thickness and mast cell incorporation in the skin lesions of mice with DNCB-induced AD. Furthermore, it reduced serum immunoglobulin E levels; reduced the number of IgE-producing B cells, peripheral blood mononuclear cells, white blood cells, and differential white blood cells; and increased the number of lymphocytes. NCM 1921 normalized the total cell number in dorsal skin tissue, the axillary lymph node, and spleen following DNCB exposure and reduced the number of CD23+/B220+ cells in the axillary lymph node and CD3+ cells in dorsal skin tissue. Moreover, it reduced the levels of interleukin (IL)-4 and IL-13 but increased the levels of interferon-γ in anti-CD3-stimulated splenocytes. Immunohistofluorescence staining showed that NCM 1921 treatment significantly increased claudin1, filaggrin, and Sirt1 protein expressions in AD skin lesions. These results suggest that NCM 1921 could be a valuable remedy for the treatment of AD.
Cytochrome P450 2E1 (P450 2E1*), one of the P450 isoforms in human liver and other human tissues, is considered to be a major catalyst responsible for the metabolism of many low molecular wt carcinogens and potentially toxic chemicals including ethanol, nitrosamines, halogenated alkanes and aromatic compounds (1, 2) . P450 2E1 can be induced by ethanol *Abbreviations: P450 2E1, cytochrome P450 2E1; NDMA, N-nitrosodimethylamine; GSH, glutathione; 7EC, 7-ethoxycoumarin; PNP, p-nitrophenol; ECL, enhanced chemiluminescence; BSO, DL-buthionine-[S,R]-sulfoximine; CDNB, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene; 4MP, 4-methylpyrazole; ISON, isoniazid; HPLC, high-performance liquid chromatography; α-MEN, α-modified minimal essential medium; SDS, sodium dodecyl sulfate. resulting in enhanced susceptibility to the hepatic damage caused by these compounds (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) .
Atopic dermatitis (AD) is an allergic, inflammatory skin disease characterized by chronic eczema and mechanical injury to the skin, caused by scratching. Korean red ginseng (RG) has diverse biological activities, but the molecular effects of RG on allergic diseases, like AD, are unclear. The present study was designed to investigate whether RG inhibits 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB)-induced AD in a mouse model. DNCB was applied topically on the dorsal surface of Balb/c mice to induce AD-like skin lesions. We observed the scratching behavior and examined the serum IgE level and interleukin (IL)-4 and IL-10 in splenocytes compared with dexamethasone. We also evaluated the DNCB-induced mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), NF-κB, and Ikaros activities after RG treatment using reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, Western blotting, and ELISA. Our data showed that the topical application of RG significantly improved the AD-like skin lesions and scratching behavior. RG decreased not only the mRNA expression of IL-4 and IL-10, but also the secretion of IL-4 protein and serum IgE in mice. Additionally, RG treatment decreased the DNCB-induced MAPKs activity and subsequent Ikaros translocation irrespective of NF-κB. We suggest that RG may be useful as a therapeutic nutrition for the treatment of AD.
The selenoprotein thioredoxin reductase 1 (TrxR1) is currently recognized as a plausible anticancer drug target. Here we analyzed the effects of TrxR1 targeting in the human A549 lung carcinoma cell line, having a very high basal TrxR1 expression. We determined the total cellular TrxR activity to be 271.4 +/- 39.5 nmol min(-1) per milligram of total protein, which by far exceeded the total thioredoxin activity (39.2 +/- 3.5 nmol min(-1) per milligram of total protein). Knocking down TrxR1 by approx 90% using siRNA gave only a slight effect on cell growth, irrespective of concurrent glutathione depletion (> or = 98% decrease), and no increase in cell death or distorted cell cycle phase distributions. This apparent lack of phenotype could probably be explained by Trx functions being maintained by the remaining TrxR1 activity. TrxR1 knockdown nonetheless yielded drug-specific modulation of cytotoxic efficacy in response to various chemotherapeutic agents. No changes in response upon exposure to auranofin or juglone were seen after TrxR1 knockdown, whereas sensitivity to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene or menadione became markedly increased. In contrast, a virtually complete resistance to cisplatin using concentrations up to 20 microM appeared upon TrxR1 knockdown. The results suggest that high overexpression of TrxR has an impact not necessarily linked to Trx function that nonetheless modulates drug-specific cytotoxic responses.
In order to examine the roles of cysteine and histidine residues in the activity of human class Pi glutathione S-transferase (GST pi), site-directed mutagenesis was used to replace each of the four cysteine residues (at positions 14, 47, 101 and 169) with serine and each of the two histidine residues (at positions 71 and 162) with asparagine using a cDNA for the enzyme (Kano, T. et al. (1987) Cancer Res., 47, 5626-5630) and an E. coli expression system. The replacements of Cys101, Cys169, His71 and His162 did not affect the GSH-conjugating activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and ethacrynic acid. On the other hand, the activities were partly decreased by the replacements of Cys47 and Cys14. These results indicated that the cysteine and histidine residues in GST pi are not essential for the catalytic activity, although Cys47 and Cys14 may contribute to some extent to the catalytic efficiency.
Liver, kidney, gill and olfactory epithelium cytosolic fractions of rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) were examined for glutathione S-transferase (GST) contents. Proteins retained on a glutathione (GSH)-affinity matrix were separated as monomers by reversed-phase HPLC and characterized by immunoblotting, mass spectrometry and partial amino acid sequence. For each organ concerned, a specific pattern of these proteins was determined and appeared similar for liver and kidney on one hand, and for gill and olfactory epithelium on the other hand. It was confirmed that the prominent hepatic GST is a class π enzyme, also constitutively expressed as a major isoform in the four organs studied. Moreover, a class π variant and two new class μ GST subunits were characterized in minor fractions. An unknown protein, which was found major in gills and olfactory epithelium, exhibited some characteristics of class θ GSTs. Occurrence of possible GSH-adduct formation observed on two distinct monomers in specific experimental conditions is discussed. These results and methods were used to investigate the effect of 3,3′,4,4′-tetrachlorobiphenyl (TCB), a polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB), on GST expression in trout liver. From HPLC-profiling, significant co-induction of the major class π and the two minor class μ GST subunits was observed in trout after waterborne exposure to TCB which was followed by a slight increase in 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) activity. The present work allows qualitative evaluation of the specific detoxification potential of rainbow trout. The use of HPLC-profiling of GSTs as a possible tool for the biomonitoring of polluted aquatic environment is suggested.
The vasodilating action of organic nitrates, such as nitroglycerin (NTG), is thought to be mediated through metabolic conversion to nitric oxide (NO) in vascular smooth muscle. Although the pertinent enzyme(s) that carries out this crucial step has not been identified, previous studies have shown that the primary enzymatic site is located within cellular membrane fractions. In these studies, we examined the binding of [14C]NTG to microsomal fractions from bovine coronary arteries. Specific binding was linearly related to protein concentration, and binding equilibrium was reversible, reached equilibrium within 1 hr, and remained stable for 4 hr at 25 degrees. Competition experiments with unlabeled NTG demonstrated the presence of two binding sites of differing affinities (high-affinity site: Bmax 24.1 +/- 0.9 pmol/mg protein, Kd 554 +/- 22 pM; low-affinity site: Bmax 79.0 +/- 2.9 pmol/mg protein, Kd 151 +/- 3 microM). Both of the thiol alkylators 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and N-ethylmaleimide were found to inhibit [14C]NTG binding, as well as enzymatic generation of NO from NTG, in a concentration-dependent manner. Competition of [14C]NTG was also observed with five other organic nitrate vasodilators, and the degree of competition was linearly related to the in vitro vaso-relaxing potencies of these agents. Parallel experiments also showed that in the absence of thiol cofactor, the enzymatic production of NO from NTG was antagonized competitively by less potent organic nitrates. Intact blood vessel experiments using rat aorta also showed that the presence of isosorbide dinitrate (ISDN), at concentrations that did not induce relaxation alone, caused a slight but significant shift in the relaxation potency of NTG (EC25 9 +/- 2 versus 28 +/- 7 nM, in the presence and absence of 0.3 microM ISDN, respectively; P < 0.05). These results demonstrate the presence of specific binding of organic nitrates to microsomal proteins in vascular smooth muscle, and the observed binding is apparently related to enzymatic conversion to NO and the vasodilating properties of these compounds.
The commonly occurring cyanobacterial toxin microcystin-LR (MC-LR) was rapidly taken up by the emergent reed plant Phragmites australis with clear distribution in the different cormus parts of the plant. Highest uptake was detected in the stem, followed by the rhizome. Enzyme extracts of the rhizome system, the stem, and the leaf revealed the presence of soluble glutathione S-transferases (sGST) measured with the model substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. A significant elevation of sGST activity in the rhizome and stem parts of P. australis was detected after a 24-h exposure to 0.5 microg/L MC-LR. Rhizome, stem, and leaf tissues were also able to conjugate several microcystin toxins. However, no conjugation, either chemical nor enzymatic, was detected using the related cyanobacterial toxin nodularin as substrate. Highest glutathione S-transferase activity for the toxin substrates was detected in the pkat/mg range in the stem of P. australis. For MC-LR, a complete metabolism from the formation of a glutathione conjugate to the degradation of a cysteine conjugate in all cormus parts of the plant is reported. The stepwise degradation of the MC-LR-glutathione conjugate to a gamma-glutamylcysteine and a cysteine conjugate was demonstrated by comparison with chemically formed reference compounds and by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry. This is the first evidence for the uptake and metabolism of cyanobacterial toxins by an emergent aquatic macrophyte.
The induction of pulmonary glutathione-S-transferase (GST) by ethanol was investigated using the isolated perfused rabbit lung (IPRL) preparation with particular attention paid to the duration and route of ethanol administration. For perfusion with buffer containing 0.2% ethanol or acute ethanol treatment (4 g/kg by gastric intubation) 4 h before the IPRL preparation, there were no differences in the rate of glutathione (GSH) conjugation with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) at low substrate concentrations (100–400 μM) but a decrease was observed in the rate at high substrate concentrations (500–1000 μM). Lungs from rabbits treated acutely showed the lowest maximal rate of GSH conjugation in the IPRL. Prolonged treatment with ethanol (10% in drinking water for 3 weeks) increased GSH conjugation (CDNB concentration of 300–750 μM). None of these ethanol treatments altered GSH conjugation with 1,2-epoxy(p-nitrophenoxy)propane (ENP). Upon termination of perfusion, there were no differences in pulmonary GSH concentration between control and ethanol-treated groups. Therefore, the effect of altered GSH level as a co-substrate on GST activity in lung might be excluded as an explanation for the effects of ethanol. These data suggest that ethanol has differential effects on GST activity depending upon the substrate and duration of ethanol administration.
The glutathione S-transferase superfamily play key roles in the metabolism of numerous xenobiotics. We report herein the identification and characterization of a novel glutathione S-transferase in the silkworm, Bombyx mori. The enzyme (bmGSTu2) conjugates glutathione to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, as well as metabolizing diazinon, one of the organophosphate insecticides. Quantitative reverse transcription–polymerase chain reaction analysis of transcripts demonstrated that bmGSTu2 expression was induced 1.7-fold in a resistant strain of B. mori. Mutagenesis of putative amino acid residues in the glutathione-binding site revealed that Ile54, Glu66, Ser67, and Asn68 are crucial for enzymatic function. These results provide insights into the catalysis of glutathione conjugation in silkworm by bmGSTu2 and into the detoxification of organophosphate insecticides.
Abstract The effects of the herbicide antidotes CGA-92194 (α-[(1,3-dioxolan-2-yl-methoxy)-imino]benzeneacetonitrile), flurazole [phenylmethyl 2-chloro-4-(trifluoromethyl)-5-thiazolecarboxylate], dichlormid (2,2-dichloro- N,N -di-2-propenylacetamide), and naphthalic anhydride (1 H ,3 H -naphtho(1,8- cd )-pyran-1,3-dione) on nonprotein thiol content, glutathione content, and glutathione S -transferase (GST) activity in etiolated sorghum ( Sorghum bicolor L.) Moench) shoots were examined. CGA-92194 and naphthalic anhydride had no effect on nonprotein thiol or reduced glutathione (GSH) content of sorghum shoots. In contrast, dichlormid and flurazole increased nonprotein thiol content of sorghum shoots by 24 and 48%, respectively. These increases were largely attributable to an increase in GSH. The antidotes increased GST activity less than twofold when using CDNB (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene) as a substrate. In contrast, when using metolachlor [2-chloro- N -(2-ethyl-6-methylphenyl)- N -(2-methoxy-1-methylethyl)acetamide] as a substrate, the increase in GST activity in response to antidote treatment was much greater: flurazole (30-fold), CGA-92194 (20-fold), naphthalic anhydride (17-fold), dichlormid (5-fold). The degree of protection from metolachlor injury conferred by a particular antidote was strongly correlated ( R 2 = 0.95) with its ability to enhance GST activity, as evaluated with metolachlor as substrate. A comparison of GST activity in untreated and CGA-92194-treated seedlings, over a range of metolachlor concentrations (0.5–500 μ M ), indicated that the relative enhancement of enzyme activity by CGA-92194 was greater at lower metolachlor concentrations. The rate of nonenzymatic conjugation of metolachlor and GSH in vitro was much less (on a gram fresh weight equivalent basis) than the enzymatic rate. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that the above antidotes protect sorghum by enhancing GST activity which results in accelerated detoxification of metolachlor via GSH conjugation.
Astragalus membranaceus (AM) is one of the most popular health-promoting herbs in East Asia, and has been used in traditional medicine for more than 2000 years. This study was performed to examine whether AM suppresses atopic dermatitis (AD)-like skin lesions in BALB/c mice. Seven-week-old female BALB/c mice were sensitized with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB) to induce allergic dermatitis. Skin sections were stained with hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) to assess epidermal and dermal hyperplasia, which were determined by measuring the thicknesses of the epidermis and dermis, respectively. The serum immunoglobulin G (IgE) concentration was quantified by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). In addition, the levels of interleukins (IL)-4, -5, -6, and -13 and tissue necrosis factor (TNF)-α were measured in mouse serum. Significance was determined by one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA). Topical AM markedly improved the AD skin lesions in DNCB-induced mice. The AD skin lesions were significantly thinner in the AM treatment group compared with untreated controls, and the hyperkeratosis disappeared. Topical treatment of AM also restored nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) expression. In addition, the serum IgE level was reduced. AM suppressed the expression of Th2 cytokines (IL-4, -5, -6, and -13) and significantly decreased the TNF-α level. AM is effective for treating AD by regulating cytokines. AM may be an alternative or complementary therapeutic option for treating patients with AD. More in-depth studies are necessary to clarify the mechanisms of AM.
BACKGROUND: The Marin strain of Culex pipiens Say is a pyrethroid-resistant population that was collected in Marin County, California, in 2001 and subsequently maintained in the laboratory under regular permethrin exposure. RESULTS: In this study, two cDNAs, CpGSTd1 and CpGSTd2, encoding glutathione S-transferase (GST) were cloned from Cx. pipiens Marin. Phylogenetic analysis of the deduced amino acid sequences, CpGSTD1 and CpGSTD2, of these genes indicated that they belong to the Delta class of insect GSTs. The nucleotide and deduced amino acid sequences of CpGSTd1 and CpGSTd2 were 59 and 48% identical respectively. CpGSTD1 and CpGSTD2 were expressed in Escherichia coli and purified by affinity chromatography. The recombinant GSTs exhibited unique selectivity towards the general GST substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB), and also differed in their sensitivity to known inhibitors of GSTs. CpGSTD1 exhibited peroxidase activity with cumene hydroperoxide, while CpGSTD2 appeared to lack this activity. CpGSTD1 was able to metabolize 1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis(4-chlorophenyl)ethane (DDT), while DDT metabolism by CpGSTD2 was not detectable. CpGSTD1 and CpGSTD2 showed no detectable metabolism of permethrin. Gene expression of CpGSTd1 and CpGSTd2 in Marin mosquitoes was elevated about twofold in comparison with that found in a pyrethroid-sensitive mosquito strain. CONCLUSION: The results indicate that CpGSTD1 and CpGSTD2 have unique biochemical characteristics, but they do not appear to play major roles in permethrin resistance in Marin mosquitoes. c © 2012 Society of Chemical Industry
A simple, single step chromatographic method was developed to separate the liver cytosolic glutathione S-transferase (GSH-S-t) isozymes from each other and from the bulk of the cytosolic protein. Five peaks of GSH-S-t activity, tested with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as a substrate, were eluted. By comparison of the activities with CDNB and the other substrate 3,4-dichloronitrobenzene (DCNB) the five peaks could be identified as GSH-S-t isozymes C, B, A, and AA, being GSH-S-t isozyme C eluted in two different peaks. The method was used to detect a decrease of specific GSH-S-t isozymes in the cytosol of rats intoxicated with carbon tetrachloride, as compared with control rats.
The influence of lactation on hepatic and intestinal glutathione S-transferase activities in mother rats was studied. Cytosolic and microsomal activities were assessed 7, 14 and 21 days after delivery, using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate. Cytosolic and microsomal activities from liver and small intestine determined 7 days post partum did not differ from those of virgin female rats. The hepatic cytosolic activity was significantly increased with respect to that of virgin females 14 days after delivery and tended to revert to the control value on day 21 of lactation, whereas the intestinal activity was increased on day 14 and remained augmented even 21 days post partum. Although the respective microsomal activities showed percent increases higher than those of the cytosolic enzymes, they both exhibited a similar pattern of stimulation in response to lactation.
Micromolar concentrations of polyunsaturated fatty acids and ascorbate esters of saturated fatty acids were found to cause a marked inhibition of rat and mouse hepatic glutathione-S-transferase (GST) activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Arachidonic acid was approximately 25 times more potent in inhibiting rat GST than palmitic acid which was the least effective. Both linoleic and arachidonic acids did not inhibit rat liver GST when ethacrynic acid was used as substrate while the reverse was true with 1,2-dichoro-4-nitrobenzene. In contrast, all the chemicals tested inhibited rat liver GST activity towards 4-nitropyridine N-oxide, indicating isozyme specificity.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are important phase II drug-metabolizing enzymes that play a major role in protecting cells from the toxic insults of electrophilic compounds. Curcumin, a promising chemotherapeutic agent, inhibits human GSTA1-1, GSTM1-1, and GSTP1-1 isoenzymes.In the present study, the effect of three series of curcumin analogues, 2,6-dibenzylidenecyclohexanone (A series), 2,5-dibenzylidenecyclopentanone (B series), and 1,4-pentadiene-3-one (C series) substituted analogues (n = 34), on these three human GST isoenzymes, and on human and rat liver cytosolic GSTs, was investigated using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as a substrate.Most of the 34 curcumin analogues showed less potent inhibitory activities towards GSTA1-1, GSTM1-1, and GSTP1-1 than the parent curcumin. Compounds B14 and C10 were the most potent inhibitors of GSTA1-1 and human liver cytosolic GSTs, with IC50 values of 0.2–0.6 μM. The most potent inhibitors of GSTM1-1 were C1, C3 and C10, with IC50 values of 0.2–0.7 μM. Si...
Here, we report a combination of homology-dependent and homology-independent methods for the construction of chimeric theta-class GSTs. This superfamily represents an ideal model system because the highly conserved GST 3D fold lends itself to homology-independent recombination and the enzymes themselves have biomedical relevance. High-throughput flow cytometric screening of chimeric libraries using the rGSTT2-2-specific fluorogenic substrate CMAC yielded enzymes exhibiting k cat values Ͼ3-fold higher than the parental rat protein. Notably, one of the isolated clones (SCR23) substituted two H site helices from rGSTT2-2 into the hGSTT1-1 framework and resulted in an enzyme that possessed 3.5-fold and 300-fold higher k cat values for the selection substrate relative to rGSTT2-2 and hGSTT1-1, respectively. Additionally, SCR23 catalyzed the GSH conjugation of ethacrynic acid, an activity absent in both parental Abbreviations: GSH, glutathione; GSTT, GST; rGSTT2-2, rat GSTT2-2; hGSTT1-1, human GSTT1-1; CMAC, 7-amino-4-chloromethyl coumarin; ITCHY, incremental truncation for the creation of hybrid enzymes; C͞O, crossover; r-h, rat-human; h-r, human-rat; CDNB, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene; PEITC, phenethyl isothiocyanate. ‡ Present address:
The glutathione S-transferase superfamily play key roles in the metabolism of numerous xenobiotics. We report herein the identification and characterization of a novel glutathione S-transferase in the silkworm, Bombyx mori. The enzyme (bmGSTu2) conjugates glutathione to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, as well as metabolizing diazinon, one of the organophosphate insecticides. Quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis of transcripts demonstrated that bmGSTu2 expression was induced 1.7-fold in a resistant strain of B. mori. Mutagenesis of putative amino acid residues in the glutathione-binding site revealed that Ile54, Glu66, Ser67, and Asn68 are crucial for enzymatic function. These results provide insights into the catalysis of glutathione conjugation in silkworm by bmGSTu2 and into the detoxification of organophosphate insecticides.
The aflatoxin B 1 -8,9-epoxide (AFBO) is hepatocarcinogenic intermediate of aflatoxin B 1 (AFBJ and is detoxified by glutathione S-transferases (GSTs). In this study, we investigated whether sulforaphane (SFN) could increase the rate of conjugation between AFBO and glutathione (GSH) as well as which of the GST isozymes were involved in the conjugation reaction. The conjugation potential was inhibited dose dependently with curcumin, an inhibitor of GSTs. SFN induced the expression of GST A 3 , GST A 4 , GST M1, GST P1, and GST Ti in alpha mouse line (AML) 12 cells. The cells treated with SFN (10 μM) for 12 h showed a 35 -fold increase in conjugation potential of AFBO with GSH compared with the vehicle-treated cell. The conjugation potential was blocked partially by transfection of cells with siRNAs against each of the GST isozymes. The activity of GST A 3 had the strongest effect on the conjugation potential. SFN treatment also increased total GST activity detected with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) up to 4 . 3 -fold. The induction fold was much lower than that detected with AFBO. These results suggest that the chemopreventive effect of SFN on the decomposition of AFBO is related to the upregulation of several GST isozymes genes. The increase of GST activity by SFN was extremely specific toward the conjugation reaction of AFBO compared with CDNB. Therefore, this system for detecting GST activity seems to be an excellent method for screening chemopreventive compounds toward AFB 1 toxicity.
1. Activities of several biotransformation enzymes were determined in male and female Sigmodon hispidus. Benzphetamine N-demethylase and glutathione S-transferases toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and sulfobromophthalein were higher in male Sigmodon hispidus than the female animals. 2. The study also determined the effect of microsomal enzyme inducing agents on hepatic biotransformation in male Sigmodon hispidus. 3. Cytochrome P-450 concentration was similar in cotton and Sprague-Dawley rats, and was increased after phenobarbital, pregnenolone-16 alpha-carbonitrile, or 3-methylcholanthrene treatment. 4. Benzphetamine N-demethylase was 4-fold higher in Sigmodon hispidus and was induced by 75-100% after phenobarbital. 5. UDP-Glucuronosyltransferase toward estrone, 1-naphthol, diethylstilbestrol and testosterone was 2- to 4-fold higher in cotton rats and was not altered by treatment with the inducing agents. 6. Conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, ethacrynic acid and sulfobromophthalein with glutathione was similar in both rodent species and was not inducible. 7. Sulfation of 2-naphthol was 15-30% of that in Sprague-Dawley rats and was not increased by inducer administration.
1. Female and male adult mouse and rat liver was analyzed for glutathione peroxidase activity, mRNA levels, and other selected liver enzymes. 2. Species and sex differences in liver protein, total RNA and total mRNA were minor. 3. Glutathione peroxidase activity, mRNA levels, and selenium concentration was lower in male rats when compared to female rats, male mice or female mice. 4. Plasma ceruloplasmin activity, but not liver mRNA levels, were lower in mice compared to rats. 5. Cu,Zn-superoxide dismutase activity and mRNA were not greatly influenced by species or sex. 6. Glutathione transferase activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was highest in male mice and equivalent in the other three groups.
Abstract The binding of two different reaction products (p-nitrobenzyl glutathione and the aflatoxin-glutathione conjugate) to mouse glutathione S-transferase A3-3 (mGSTA3-3) has been measured using equilibrium dialysis and a direct fluorescence quenching technique. As expected, p-nitrobenzyl glutathione was found to bind with a stoichiometry of 2.24 ± 0.17 mol/mol of dimeric enzyme. However, the much larger aflatoxin-glutathione conjugate, 8,9-dihydro-8-(S-glutathionyl)-9-hydroxyl-aflatoxin B1 (AFB-GSH), was found to bind with a stoichiometry of 1.12 ± 0.08 mol/mol of dimeric enzyme. p-Nitrobenzyl glutathione bound mGSTA3-3 with a dissociation constant (Kd) of 59 ± 17 µM while the aflatoxin-glutathione conjugate bound the enzyme with a Kd of 0.86 ± 0.19 µM. Glutathione competitively inhibited binding of AFB-GSH to mGSTA3-3 with a Ki of 1.5 mM, suggesting that AFB-GSH was binding to the enzyme active site. Although AFB-GSH bound to mGSTA3-3 with a stoichiometry of 1 mol/mol of dimeric enzyme, AFB-GSH completely inhibited activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, indicating that AFB-GSH binding to one active site alters affinity for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in the active site of the other subunit. To our knowledge, this is the first report of a glutathione S-transferase reaction product which binds to the enzyme with a stoichiometry of 1 mol/mol of dimer.
We have isolated and characterized a cDNA and partial gene encoding a murine subfamily 1 Theta class glutathione transferase (GST). The cDNA derived from mouse GSTT1 has an open reading frame of 720 bp encoding a peptide of 240 amino acids with a calculated molecular mass of 27356 Da. The encoded protein shares only 51% deduced amino acid sequence identity with mouse GSTT2, but greater than 80% deduced amino acid sequence identity with rat GSTT1 and human GSTT1. Mouse GSTT1-1 was expressed in Escherichia coli as an N-terminal 6x histidine-tagged protein and purified using immobilized-metal affinity chromatography on nickel-agarose. The yield of the purified recombinant protein from E. coli cultures was approx. 14 mg/l. Recombinant mouse GSTT1-1 was catalytically active towards 1, 2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)propane, 4-nitrobenzyl chloride and dichloromethane. Low activity towards 1-menaphthyl sulphate and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was detected, whereas mouse GSTT1-1 was inactive towards ethacrynic acid. Recombinant mouse GSTT1-1 exhibited glutathione peroxidase activity towards cumene hydroperoxide and t-butyl hydroperoxide, but was inactive towards a range of secondary lipid-peroxidation products, such as the trans-alk-2-enals and trans,trans-alka-2,4-dienals. Mouse GSTT1 mRNA is most abundant in mouse liver and kidney, with some expression in intestinal mucosa. Mouse GSTT1 mRNA is induced in liver by phenobarbital, but not by butylated hydroxyanisole, beta-napthoflavone or isosafrole. The structure of mouse GSTT1 is conserved with that of the subfamily 2 Theta class GST genes mouse GSTT2 and rat GSTT2, comprising five exons interrupted by four introns. The mouse GSTT1 gene was found, by in situ hybridization, to be clustered with mouse GSTT2 on chromosome 10 at bands B5-C1. This region is syntenic with the location of the human Theta class GSTs clustered on chromosome 22q11.2. Similarity searches of a mouse-expressed sequence tag database suggest that there may be two additional members of the Theta class that share 70% and 88% protein sequence identity with mouse GSTT1, but less than 55% sequence identity with mouse GSTT2.
Murine L1210 leukemia cells, which display sensitivity or resistance to the chemotherapeutic alkylating agent, melphalan, are equivalently sensitive or resistant to the poorly permeable mercurial, p-chloromercuribenzenesulfonate. Cells of both lines do not differ in sensitivity to the sulfhydryl reagents, N-ethylamaleimide, iodoacetamide and iodoacetate or to the glutathione transferase substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and p-nitrobenzyl chloride. The results are interpreted in terms of the known biological reactivity of p-chloromercuribenzenesulfonate as a selective reagent for sulfhydryl groups of membrane proteins associated with monovalent cation permeability.
Two cytosolic glutathione S-transferase (GST) classes were isolated and characterized from California halibut (Paralichthys californicus) liver. Nanospray liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) was used to elucidate peptide sequences and the proteins were identified as theta and alpha by searching against the NCBI non-redundant database (nrDB). Catalytic activity of the cytosolic GSTs towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was determined to be 0.23+/-0.003 U/mg cytosolic protein.
Multiple glutaredoxins (Grx) and glutathione reductase (Glr) are vital for the thiol-disulfide redox system in budding yeast but generally unexplored in filamentous fungi. Here we characterized the Beauveria bassiana redox system comprising dithiol Grx1, monothiol Grx2-4, Grx-like Grx5, and Glr orthologue. Each grx or glr deletion was compensated by increased transcripts of some other grx genes in normal cultures. Particularly, grx3 compensated the absence of grx1, grx2, grx5, or glr under oxidative stress while its absence was compensated only by undeletable grx4 under normal conditions but by most of other undeleted grx and glr genes in response to menadione. Consequently, the redox state was disturbed in Δglr more than in Δgrx3 but not in Δgrx1/2/5. Superoxide dismutases were more active in normal Δgrx1-3 cultures but less in Δgrx5 or Δglr response to menadione. Total catalase activity increased differentially in all the mutant cultures stressed with or without H2O2 while total peroxidase activity decreased more in the normal or H2O2-stressed culture of Δglr than of Δgrx3. Among the mutants, Δgrx3 showed slightly increased sensitivity to menadione or H2O2; Δglr exhibited greater sensitivity to thiol-oxidizing diamide than thiol-reducing 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as well as increased sensitivity to the two oxidants. Intriguingly, all the mutants grew slower in a Fe(3+)-inclusive medium perhaps due to elevated transcripts of two Fe(3+) transporter genes. More or fewer phenotypes linked with biocontrol potential were altered in four deletion mutants excluding Δgrx5. All the changes were restored by targeted gene complementation. Overall, Grx3 played more critical role than other Grx homologues in the Glr-dependent redox system of the fungal entomopathogen.
Glutathione transferases exhibit both isomerase and transferase activity. The acceptance of steroids as substrates for or inhibitors of these activities was studied using a 350-fold enriched preparation of the enzyme from human placenta. As an isomerase, the enzyme preparation catalyzed the conversion of pregn-5-ene-3,20-dione (Km 0.03 mmol/l) and androst-5-ene-3,17-dione (Km 0.05 mmol/l) to the respective 4-ene-3-oxosteroids (specific activity 0.8 U/mg protein). This isomerase activity strictly depended on the presence of glutathione (Km 0.04 mmol/l). As a transferase, the enzyme preparation catalyzed the conjugation of glutathione (Km 0.5 mmol/l) with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (Km 1.0 mmol/l) (specific activity 100 U/mg protein). This transferase activity was inhibited by all phenolic (KI values 0.2-1.5 mmol/l) and some of the neutral steroids (KI values 1.4-3.5 mmol/l) tested. Phenolic steroids inhibited the enzyme activity competitively to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and non-competitively to both substrates. The results indicate that steroids can interact with the placental glutathione transferase in vitro both as substrates and as inhibitors. Since, however, the observed Km and KI values of the steroids are far above the values of their concentrations in the placenta, these interactions are of only minor physiological relevance.
Solidago canadensis is typical of a flavonoid-rich herb and the effect of an aqueous ethanol extract on glutathione-S-transferase (GST) activity using HepG2 cells was compared with those of the flavonol quercetin and its glycosides quercitrin and rutin, found as major constituents. The composition of the extract was determined by HPLC and rutin was found to be the major flavonoidal component of the extract. Total GST activity was assessed using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as a substrate. The glycosides rutin and quercitrin gave dose-dependent increases in GST activity, with a 50% and 24.5% increase at 250 mM, respectively, while the aglycone quercetin inhibited the enzyme by 30% at 250 mM. The total extract of the herb gave an overall dose-dependent increase, the fractions corresponding to the flavonoids showed activating effects while those containing caffeic acid derivatives were inhibitory. The activity observed corresponds to that reported for similar compounds in-vivo using rats, thus the HepG2 cell line could serve as a more satisfactory method of assessing the effects of extracts and compounds on GST.
The glutathione-gated K(+) efflux (GGKE) system represents a protective microbial stress response that is activated by electrophilic or thiol-reactive stressors. It was hypothesized that efflux of cytoplasmic K(+) occurs in activated sludge communities in response to shock loads of industrially relevant electrophilic chemicals and results in significant deflocculation. Novosphingobium capsulatum, a bacterium consistent with others found in activated sludge treatment systems, responded to electrophilic thiol reactants with rapid efflux of up to 80% of its cytoplasmic K(+) pool. Furthermore, N. capsulatum and activated sludge cultures exhibited dynamic efflux-uptake-efflux responses very similar to those observed by others in Escherichia coli K-12 exposed to the electrophilic stressors N-ethylmaleimide and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and the reducing agent dithiothreitol. Fluorescent LIVE/DEAD stains were used to show that cell lysis was not the cause of electrophile-induced K(+) efflux. Nigericin was used to artificially stimulate K(+) efflux from N. capsulatum and activated sludge cultures as a comparison to electrophile-induced K(+) efflux and showed that cytoplasmic K(+) efflux by both means corresponded with activated sludge deflocculation. These results parallel those of previous studies with pure cultures in which GGKE was shown to cause cytoplasmic K(+) efflux and implicate the GGKE system as a probable causal mechanism for electrophile-induced, activated sludge deflocculation. Calculations support the notion that shock loads of electrophilic chemicals result in very high K(+) concentrations within the activated sludge floc structure, and these K(+) levels are comparable to that which caused deflocculation by external (nonphysiological) KCl addition.
Abstract The Episyrphus balteatus hoverfly is commonly found in very diversified biotopes including Brassicaceae crop fields. Glutathione S -transferases (GST) are detoxification enzymes that are involved in the metabolization of plant allelochemicals such as glucosinolates and related volatile products (mainly isothiocyanates) from Brassica plants. Developmental expression of E. balteatus glutathione S -transferases was studied. With regard to the high level of glutathione S -transferase activity in syrphid adults, the latter stage was also used to assess the glutathione S -transferase distribution in several parts of the insect. Higher glutathione S -transferase activities were found in the thorax (47.5 and 38.5%) followed by the abdomen (32.4 and 32.9%) and the head (20.4 and 28.5%) with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, and 2,4-dinitro-l-iodebenzene, respectively. Analysis of Brevicoryne brassicae , the cabbage aphid, by GC-MS revealed the presence of isothiocyanates. The latter are the main degradation products of the glucosinolate from the host plant at neutral pH. Feeding the predators with this aphid species and with the generalist Myzus persicae reared on Brassica napus induced glutathione S -transferase activity. Impact of volatiles from the host plant on the glutathione S -transferase activity was also determined by exposure of syrphid larvae to isothiocyanates (allyl- and benzyl-isothiocyanates). Enzyme inductions were observed only from a 1 ppm concentration. Enzymatic activity evolution was discussed as an adaptation to cope with allelochemicals from plants. Finally, the glutathione S -transferase activities of several hoverfly species were compared in relation to their feeding behavior (coprophagous, saprophagous, and aphidophagous) at the larval stages. The results seem to indicate quantitative and qualitative differences of glutathione S -transferases according to the feeding behavior of the larvae.
Background: Mas cotek or Ficus deltoidea is conventionally used to treat various diseases and often consumed with other medication and this may give rise to herb–drug interaction. The potential of F. deltoidea for interactions with drug-metabolizing enzymes of UDP-gucuronosytranserase (UGT) and glutathione S-transferase (GST) have not been investigated. Objective: We had evaluated the potential of methanol, ethanol, and aqueous extracts of F. deltoidea to cause UGT- and GST-mediated herb–drug interaction in vitro. Materials and Methods: The total phenolic content and total phenolic content were determined using modified colorimetric method. In the UGT study, para -nitrophenol (p -NP) was employed as a substrate to determine the UGT enzymes activity in rat liver microsomes (RLM) and human liver microsomes (HLM). For the GST study, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was employed as a substrate to determine GST activity in rat liver cytosolic fraction. Results: The total phenolic content in F. deltoidea extracts can be ranked as follows: Methanol extract > aqueous extract > ethanol extract, whereas the content of flavonoid compounds in F. deltoidea extracts can be ranked as: Methanol extract > ethanol extract > aqueous extract. Assessment using the UGT enzymes of RLM (IC50 [Half-maximal inhibitory concentration] = 881.40 ± 1.14 μg/mL) and HLM (IC50 =63.44 ± 1.20 μg/mL) showed that the methanol extract of F. deltoidea significantly inhibited p -NP glucuronidation compared with ethanol and aqueous extracts. For GST inhibition study, methanol extract strongly inhibited GST activity (IC50 =70.73 ± 1.07 μg/mL), whereas no IC50values were determined for ethanol and aqueous extracts. Conclusion: The methanol extract of F. deltoidea containing the highest flavonoid content highlights the possibility of herb–drug interaction through the modulation of p -NP UGT and GST activity.
A mu-class glutathione S-transferase (GST) cDNA clone, pHMB1, from rabbit liver has been constructed, using a 748-base-pair fragment of GST Yb1 cDNA as a probe. The nucleotide sequence of pHMB1 has been determined, and the complete amino acid sequence has been deduced. Recombinant clone pHMB1 contains a cDNA insert of 1443 base pairs with 654 nucleotides of open reading frame, 33 nucleotides of 5'-untranslated region, and 756 nucleotides of 3'-untranslated region. The open reading frame encodes a polypeptide (rbGST mu I) comprising 218 amino acids with molecular weight of 25,417. Compared to published mu-class GST sequences, rbGST mu I is 73 and 77% identical to rat Yb1 and human GST4 in amino acid sequence, respectively. The pHMB1 was expressed in Escherichia coli using expression vector pIH821 and the expressed GST was purified as a single band on polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis by maltose- and glutathione-affinity column chromatography. Rabbit liver GST protein expressed by this system was catalytically active. The functional characterization was done on the expressed protein. The rabbit liver GST expressed in E. coli showed greater activity toward 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene than mu-class isozymes in rabbit hepatic tissue (T. Primiano and R.F. Novak (1993) Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 301, 404-410). Enzymatic activity of expressed protein toward the substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was inhibited by triethyltin bromide, Cibacron blue, triphenyltin chloride, bromosulfophthalein, and hematin. RNA blot hybridization demonstrated that the pHMB1 mRNA was well expressed in rabbit liver, brain, and kidney.
Several non-GST proteins have been shown known to contain the topological and ligand-binding features of cytosolic GSTs. These include the intracellular chloride ion channels (CLICs) (Harrop et al. 2001; Cromer et al. 2007; Littler et al. 2010) , microsomal prostaglandin E synthase type-2 (mPGES-2) (Yamada et al. 2005) , yeast elongation factor 1Bγ (Jeppesen et al. 2003) , and the yeast prion protein Ure2p (a nitrogen catabolite repression regulator) (Bousset et al. 2001) . It is noteworthy that Ure2p shows glutathione-dependent peroxidase (GPx) activity, (a frequent adjunct activity of GSTs), but no GST activity toward the classic GST substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). The GSH conjugating activity of Ure2p can be restored by site-directed mutagenesis (Zhang et al. 2008) . The structure of Stringent starvation protein A (sspA), an RNA-polymerase-associated protein, represents a distinct class of bacterial GST-like proteins (Hansen et al. 2005) . SspA lacks GST activity and does not bind glutathione.
The key observation of Lawrence, and of Jeter, Tremaine, and Seebohm, was that extracts prepared from the leukocytes of the sensitized individuals contained a substance that could transmit immunological memory (or preparedness) to a naive individual. Thus, the naive individual, upon receipt of the leukocyte extract, could immediately mount a secondary immune response upon hisfirst exposure to the antigen.* In subsequent years the transfer factor phenomenon was extended to include several other immune reactions; for instance, responses against transplantation antigens (5), bacterial spores (6, 7), and such foreign proteins as tuberculin Abbreviations: DNCB, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene; OCBC, ortho-chlorobenzoylchloride. *This is the traditional definition of transfer factor. In the more recent literature, the term "transfer factor" has been increasingly used to refer to any leukocyte-derived material that can elicit an immune system-related response. As the nature of these substances and the responses they elicit becomes further understood, it may be advisable to assign independent names to the substances involved.
Thioredoxin (Trx), the oxidized form of which is converted to a reduced form by Trx reductase, regulates cell proliferation and survival. We investigated the effect of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB), an inhibitor of Trx reductase, on cell death in neuronal PC12 cells and rat glial cells. In both types of cells, culture with DNCB for 4 h stimulated lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) leakage. LDH leakage by DNCB was inhibited by an inhibitor of caspases. Addition of 2,2-(hydroxynitrosohydrazino)bis-ethanamine, of which 50% decays and releases nitric oxide (NO) in 21 h, inhibited DNCB-induced LDH leakage. Addition of 10 μM N-ethyl-2-(1-ethyl-2-hydroxy-2-nitrosohydrazino)-ethanamine (NOC-12), of which 50% decays and releases NO in 100 min, inhibited DNCB-induced LDH leakage, although 0.2 mM NOC-12 enhanced the leakage in PC12 cells. These findings suggest that DNCB induces cell death of neuronal and glial cells accompanied by caspase(s) activation. NO inhibits DNCB-induced cell death in both types of cells, although excess NO showed a toxic effect.
We are investigating the effects of in vivo exposure of prototypical enzyme inducing agents on hepatic biotransformation enzyme expression in largemouth bass (Micropterus salmoides), a predatory game fish found throughout the United States and Canada. The current study targeted those genes involved in biotransformation and oxidative stress that may be regulated by Ah-receptor-dependent pathways. Exposure of bass to beta-naphthoflavone (beta-NF, 66 mg/kg, i.p.) elicited a 7-9-fold increase in hepatic microsomal cytochrome P4501A-dependent ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase (EROD) activities, but did not affect cytosolic GST catalytic activities toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) or 5-androstene-3,17-dione (ADI). Glutathione S-transferase A (GST-A) mRNA expression exhibited a transient, but non-significant increase following exposure to beta-NF, and generally tracked the minimal changes observed in GST-CDNB activities. Expression of the mRNA encoding glutamate-cysteine ligase catalytic subunit (GCLC), the rate-limiting enzyme in glutathione (GSH) biosynthesis, was increased 1.7-fold by beta-NF. Changes in GCLC mRNA expression were paralleled by increases in intracellular GSH. In summary, largemouth bass hepatic CYP1A-dependent and GSH biosynthetic pathways, and to a lesser extent GST, are responsive to exposure to beta-NF.
Two cDNA species, aggst1-5 and aggst1-6, comprising the entire coding region of two distinct glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) have been isolated from a 1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis-(p-chlorophenyl)ethane (DDT) resistant strain (ZANDS) of Anopheles gambiae. The nucleotide sequences of these cDNA species share 80.2% identity and their derived amino acid sequences are 82.3% similar. They have been classified as insect class I GSTs on the basis of their high sequence similarity to class I GSTs from Drosophila melanogaster and Musca domestica and they are localized to a region of an An. gambiae chromosome known to contain further class I GSTs. The genes aggst1-5 and aggst1-6 were expressed at high levels in Escherichia coli and the recombinant GSTs were purified by affinity chromatography and characterized. Both agGST1-5 and agGST1-6 showed high activity with the substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 1, 2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene but negligible activity with the mammalian theta class substrates, 1,2-epoxy-3-(4-nitrophenoxy)propane and p-nitrophenyl bromide. Despite their high level of sequence identity, agGST1-5 and agGST1-6 displayed different kinetic properties. Both enzymes were able to metabolize DDT and were localized to a subset of GSTs that, from earlier biochemical studies, are known to be involved in insecticide resistance in An. gambiae. This subset of enzymes is one of three in which the DDT metabolism levels are elevated in resistant insects.
Background ::: Asthma exacerbations evoke emergency room visits, progressive loss of lung function and increased mortality. Environmental and industrial toxicants exacerbate asthma, although the underlying mechanisms are unknown. We assessed whether 3 distinct toxicants, salicylic acid (SA), toluene diisocyanate (TDI), and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB) induced airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR) through modulating excitation-contraction coupling in human airway smooth muscle (HASM) cells. The toxicants include a non-sensitizing irritant (SA), respiratory sensitizer (TDI) and dermal sensitizer (DNCB), respectively. We hypothesized that these toxicants induce AHR by modulating excitation-contraction (EC) coupling in airway smooth muscle (ASM) cells.
Abstract Previous studies suggested that dietary composition affected glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity in catfish intestine, and this activity varied along the intestine. In this study, catfish were fed a semi-purified diet or a commercial chow for at least 2 weeks. GST activity, percent protein cross-reacting with anti-catfish GST π antibody, and immuno-cross-reactivity with antibodies specific for human α, μ, π and θ class GSTs were determined in cytosol prepared from sections of proximal, medial, and distal intestine. The bulk of GST activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and ethacrynic acid, and the percent protein cross-reacting with anti-catfish GST π were in the more proximal segments and dropped off distally in the two diet groups. The percent of cross-reacting GST protein in the proximal section of fish fed on commercial chow was significantly higher (4.3±1.7%) than in fish fed purified diet (2.3±0.2%). Further Western blot analysis revealed a differential expression of GST isoforms only in the distal segment of fish fed commercial chow that recognized human anti-α GST antibody. Distal intestinal segments of catfish exposed to 3,3′,4,4′-tetrachlorobiphenyl (TCB) and β-naphthoflavone (BNF) also revealed expression of distinct α-like GST isoforms. Results strongly suggest the distal segment as a site for potential biomarkers for polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH)- and co-planar polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB)-type contaminants.
ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE ::: Indirubin, isolated from Indigo naturalis (Apiaceae) is a purple 3,2- bisindole and a stable isomer of indigo. Although it is known to have anti-inflammatory activities, its mechanism of action has not been elucidated. ::: ::: ::: MATERIALS AND METHODS ::: Seven-week-old female BALB/c mice were sensitized with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB) to induce skin inflammation. Hematoxylin and eosin staining was performed to assess epidermal and dermal hyperplasia, which were determined by measuring the thicknesses of the epidermis and dermis, respectively. We also evaluated serum immunoglobulin E (IgE) levels and cytokines production, such as tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, interleukin (IL)-4, 6 and Interferon (IFN)-gamma. In addition, we investigated nuclear factor (NF)-κB, IκB-α and mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase activities for verifying the molecular mechanism of inflammation. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Indirubin treatment suppressed skin inflammation in DNCB-exposed mice. The skin lesions were significantly thinner in the Indirubin-treated group than in untreated controls, and the hyperkeratosis disappeared. Indirubin reduced the total serum IgE level and cytokines production. In addition, it normalized NF-κB, IκB-α and MAP kinase expression. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: Indirubin might be a useful treatment for allergic contact dermatitis via regulating the co-expression of T helper (Th) 1 and 2 cell-mediated immune responses.
As an essential element, copper ion (Cu2+) plays important roles in human beings for its participation in diverse metabolic processes as a cofactor and/or a structural component of enzymes. However, excessive uptake of Cu2+ ion gives rise to the risk of certain diseases. So, it is important to develop simple ways to monitor and detect Cu2+ ion. In this study, a simple, facile colorimetric sensor for the ultrasensitive determination of Cu2+ ion was developed based on the following principle: L-cysteine and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) could be conjugated to form the yellow product 2,4-dinitrophenylcysteine (DNPC), which was measurable at 355 nm; however, upon addition of Cu2+ ion, the absorbance of DNPC would be decreased owing to the Cu2+ ion catalytic oxidation of L-cysteine to L-cystine in the presence of O-2. Thus, the colorimetric detection of Cu2+ ion could be achieved. The optimal pH, buffer, temperature and incubation time for the colorimetric sensor were obtained of pH 6.8 in 0.1 M HEPES solution, 90 degrees C and 50 min, respectively. A good linearity within the range of 0.8-10 nM (r = 0.996) was attained, with a high detectability up to 0.5 nM. Analyses of Cu2+ ion in drinking water, lake water, seawater and biological samples were carried out and the method performances were found to agree well with that obtained by ICP-MS. The developed simple colorimetric sensor proved applicable for Cu2+ ion determination in real samples with high sensitivity and selectivity. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
A method for specific determination of glutathione (GSH) is described. This method utilizes the enzymatic conjugation of GSH to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene through reaction catalyzed by glutathione S-transferase. The recovery of GSH as determined by this method is comparable to that in currently used methods. The method is specific for GSH determination. Other sulfhydryl (-SH) compounds including the protein -SH or beta-mercaptoethanol, which are often included in tissue homogenates, do not interfere with GSH determination. Acid extraction of the tissue is not required in this method and comparatively smaller amounts of tissue samples (as little as 20 microliters of a 10% w/v tissue homogenate) are needed for the analyses. The method when applied for GSH determination in ocular tissues yielded results in agreement with the reported values in literature. Evidence for the sensitivity, accuracy, and convenience of the method is provided by analysing the sample containing GSH in the range of 1-200 nmol by this method.
The SNAr reactions in methanol of the title compound with a selected range of anionic and neutral nucleophiles, viz., azide, benzenethiolate, and methoxide ions, and with the amines N,N-diethylethane-1,2-diamine, guanidine, morpholine, pyrrolidine and piperidine have been studied. We have also studied the reaction with azide ion in N,N-dimethylformamide (DMF). As far as possible we have compared these reactions with those of the nucleophiles with the convenient reference substrate, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene.With all the nucleophiles we verified large differences in the Arrhenius parameters by comparing the mesoionic with reference substrates. For the former, values of log B and of ΔE‡ were always much higher. This has been ascribed to the betaine character of the mesoionic substrate with wellseparated positive and negative regions and the marked effects of this on solvation energy and solvation entropy.We have also verified significant changes in relative reactivities of azide and benzenethiolate ions, the former being better and the latter poorer than that of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. The rationale involves the high polarity of the covalently bound azido group and its distance from the main region of negative charge in the σ-complex (and rate-limiting transition state), and adverse steric interactions in the reactions of benzenethiolate ion.Comparing DMF and MeOH as solvents in the azide-ion reactions, we found an increase in reactivity in DMF similar to the well known solvent effects with typical SNAr substrates.
A procedure for the simultaneous analysis of reduced and oxidized glutathione together with glutathione conjugates of electrophilic organic compounds by capillary isotachophoresis is described. This method can be applied to quality control of such synthetic conjugates, which are commonly employed as affinity ligands in the chromatographic purification of glutathione S-transferases (EC 2.5.1.18). Using this new assay procedure, it has been found that the glutathione conjugate of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene is unstable in neutral to alkaline solution, degrading to glutathione and 2,4-dinitrophenol. Anomalies in the electrophoretic mobilities of a homologous series of alkylglutathione derivatives were observed. A possible explanation is provided on the basis of the formation of micelle-like aggregates, this tendency increasing with increasing length of the hyrocarbon chain. A useful and widely applicable aspect of this analytical procedure is as a method of monitoring glutathione S-transferase. The major advantages of this new assay technique can be summarized as follows: (1) the assay does not depend on optical properties of the acceptor, (2) the reaction can be monitored in the presence of unrefined biological material;aliquots can be injected without pretreatment and (3) the spontaneous oxidation of glutathione in the assay mixture can be monitored simultaneously.
Biotransformation in carcinogen-induced diploid and polyploid hepatocytes was studied using isozyme-selective substrates for several enzyme pathways. Diploid hepatocytes were induced by partial hepatectomy, a single injection of diethylnitrosamine, and 4 weeks of 2-acetylaminofluorene (2-AAF) feeding. Then, after an additional 3-5 weeks on the control diet, diploid and polyploid hepatocytes were separated from freshly isolated hepatocytes by centrifugal elutriation. Benzo(a)pyrene hydroxylase, ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase, and methoxycoumarin O-demethylase activities were approximately 15-40% lower in the diploid hepatocyte fraction than in the polyploid cell fraction. Activities of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, glutathione S-transferase, 3-hydroxy-benzo(a)pyrene or 4-hydroxybiphenyl UDP-glucuronosyltransferase, and DT-diaphorase were not different in the two cell fractions. Determination of activity during the 2-AAF treatment indicated that 2-AAF increased 7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase and 3-hydroxybenzo(a)pyrene glucuronosyltransferase activities by 300 and 200%, respectively, in both the diploid and polyploid hepatocyte fractions. Administration of phenobarbital for 4 days at the end of the control diet period increased ethoxyresorufin and methoxycoumarin dealkylations by 2- and 4-fold, and 3-hydroxybenzo(a)pyrene glucuronidation and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene conjugation with glutathione by 1.5- to 2-fold in both hepatocyte fractions. Slight increases in benzo(a)pyrene hydroxylation and 4-hydroxybiphenyl glucuronidation were also evident in diploid cells. Although there is a slight decrease in cytochrome P-450-dependent monooxygenase activities, these data indicate that carcinogen-induced diploid hepatocytes do not show the typical toxicant-resistant phenotype observed in preneoplastic hepatocytes of altered liver foci, which are characterized by large decreases in monooxygenase biotransformations as well as increased activities of several phase II enzymes. This finding is compatible with the hypothesis that 2-AAF-induced nonploidizing growth of diploid hepatocytes is caused by nontoxic mechanisms in the present experimental paradigm. In addition, carcinogen-induced diploid cells respond to phenobarbital in a manner similar to that of polyploid hepatocytes.
To investigate the effects of the predominant nonprotein thiol, glutathione (GSH), on redox homeostasis, we employed complementary pharmacological and genetic strategies to determine the consequences of both loss- and gain-of-function GSH content in vitro. We monitored the redox events in the cytosol and mitochondria using reduction-oxidation sensitive green fluorescent protein (roGFP) probes and the level of reduced/oxidized thioredoxins (Trxs). Either H(2)O(2) or the Trx reductase inhibitor 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB), in embryonic rat heart (H9c2) cells, evoked 8 or 50 mV more oxidizing glutathione redox potential, E(hc) (GSSG/2GSH), respectively. In contrast, N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC) treatment in H9c2 cells, or overexpression of either the glutamate cysteine ligase (GCL) catalytic subunit (GCLC) or GCL modifier subunit (GCLM) in human embryonic kidney 293 T (HEK293T) cells, led to 3- to 4-fold increase of GSH and caused 7 or 12 mV more reducing E(hc), respectively. This condition paradoxically increased the level of mitochondrial oxidation, as demonstrated by redox shifts in mitochondrial roGFP and Trx2. Lastly, either NAC treatment (EC(50) 4 mM) or either GCLC or GCLM overexpression exhibited increased cytotoxicity and the susceptibility to the more reducing milieu was achieved at decreased levels of ROS. Taken together, our findings reveal a novel mechanism by which GSH-dependent reductive stress triggers mitochondrial oxidation and cytotoxicity.
The hydrazinolysis of 2,4-dinitrophenyl acetate in methanol proceed exclusively through acyl-oxygen scission by a concerted mechanism. The reaction of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene with hydrazine in methanol, acetonitrile and dimethyl sulfoxide undergo uncatalyzed substitution and the formation of the zwitterionic intermediate is the rate-determining step. While 2,4-dinitrobenzene derivatives 1, 2, 3, 4, 5a-i, 6 with hydrazine in DMSO undergo uncatalyzed substitution and the departure of the leaving group is the rate-determining step. The process depends on the basicity of the leaving group and its steric hindrance as well as the possible intramolecular hydrogen bond in the transition state. The reactivity of compounds 5a-i depends on the substituent of the thioaryl ring while the small ? Y value is due to the sulfides existing preferentially in the skew conformation. The small ? lg value (-0.18, r = 0.99) indicated that the reaction of sulfides with hydrazine proceeds with advanced bond formation to the nucleophile and the bond cleavage proceed in a slow extent in the transition state.
An HPLC-based assay system has been developed to measure the reactivity of agrochemicals with glutathione (GSH) with and without catalysis by glutathione transferases (GSTs). Metabolism-related parameters based on second-order related rate constants from non-enzymatic GSH and enzymatic GSH+GST assays have been derived for use in structure–activity and structure–reactivity relationship studies of exploratory agrochemicals. The versatility and sensitivity of the assay system has been established using a diverse range of agrochemicals and model compounds, e.g. 4-nitrobenzyl chloride, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, atrazine, acetochlor, fluorodifen, fluazifop-butyl, tridiphane, fluazinam, chlorothalonil and diazinon. For the enzymatic GSH+GST assay, second-order related rate constants, ratioed to the assay standard, 4-nitrobenzyl chloride to provide a parameter independent of assay conditions, spanned five orders of magnitude, fluazinam being the most reactive and atrazine the least. Within chemical classes significant variations in reactivity were observed, alachlor being c.15-fold more reactive than pretilachlor. Applications of this assay system based on comparative measures of reactivity across and within chemical classes are discussed. © 1998 Society of Chemical Industry
Glutathione (GSH) conjugation of trichloroethylene (Tri) to form S-(1,2-dichlorovinyl)glutathione (DCVG) has been implicated in the nephrotoxicity and nephrocarcinogenicity of Tri. Marked sex- and species-dependent differences exist, however, in the susceptibility to Tri-induced renal toxicity, with the male rat being the most susceptible. The present study, therefore, focuses on potential differences in the initial step of the GSH pathway. Rates of DCVG formation were measured in suspensions of isolated renal cortical cells and isolated hepatocytes from male and female Fischer 344 rats and in kidney and liver microsomes and cytosol from male and female Fischer 344 rats and B6C3F1 mice to determine if sex- and species-dependent differences in GSH conjugation correlate with susceptibility to renal toxicity from Tri. Rates of gamma-glutamyltransferase (GGT) with gamma-glutamyl-p-nitroanilide and glycylglycine as substrates and GSH S-transferase (GST) with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate were also measured in liver and kidney subcellular fractions to provide further information on the biochemical basis of susceptibility to Tri. Rates of DCVG formation in rat kidney cells and kidney subcellular fractions were 5- to 20-fold lower than those in rat hepatocytes and liver subcellular fractions. Rates of DCVG formation in kidney cells and subcellular fractions were comparable in male and female rats with the exception of male rat kidney microsomes, where DCVG formation was below the limit of detection, and those in liver cells and subcellular fractions were >3-fold higher in male rats than in female rats. Rates of DCVG formation in mouse kidney subcellular fractions were approximately 10-fold higher than in corresponding fractions from the rat, whereas those in mouse liver subcellular fractions were 4- to 8-fold higher than in corresponding rat tissues, with rates in male mouse liver cytosol and microsomes being modestly higher than in corresponding fractions from female mice. GGT activity was barely detectable in livers, was about 20-fold higher in rat kidneys than in mouse kidneys, and was slightly higher in female rat kidneys than in male rat kidneys. GST activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate exhibited tissue-, sex-, and species-dependent patterns that were generally similar to those with Tri as the substrate. These results suggest that the higher susceptibility to Tri-induced renal toxicity of male rats as compared with female rats correlates with rates of DCVG formation. The high rates of DCVG formation in mice, however, indicate that other factors, possibly including differences in activities of cysteine conjugate beta-lyase or N-acetyltransferase, may also be important determinants of the susceptibility to Tri.
Screening of a liver tumour cDNA library from Xenopus laevis resulted in the isolation of a full-length cDNA clone encoding a novel Pi-class amphibian glutathione transferase (GST) isoenzyme (designated as XlGSTP1-1). The gene encodes a protein of 212 amino acids with a calculated molecular mass of 24428 Da. The product of the gene has been overexpressed in Escherichia coli and characterized. XlGSTP1-1 has one of the highest specific activities towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (1310 micromol/min per mg of protein) obtained with any GST. A notable feature of XlGSTP1-1 is the presence in the H-site of Phe(111) and Pro(208) in place of tyrosine and glycine residues respectively, present in other mammalian Pi-class GSTs. Site-directed mutagenesis indicate that Phe(111) is involved in substrate specificity of XlGSTP1-1. We provide evidence showing that XlGSTP1-1 is present only in the embryo and its expression might be associated with cellular proliferation.
Substrate enantioselectivity in the conjugation of phenethyl halides catalyzed by the glutathione S-transferases was studied with partially purified isozymes from rat liver. All of the isozymes tested possessed measurable activity with phenethyl chloride. Tranferase A was the most active isozyme tested. Each of the isozymes demonstrated a high degree of substrate enantioselectivity, with transferase A being the most enantioselective isozyme. The enantioselectivity was determined by high-pressure liquid chromatographic analysis of the enzymatically formed diastereomeric products. The effect of limiting glutathione concentrations on the stereochemical outcome of the transferase A catalyzed conjugation of the chiral substrate, (S)-phenethyl chloride (4 mM), was investigated. The stereochemical course of the enzymatic reaction was not significantly altered at glutathione concentrations as low as 25 microM. The major product of conjugation had the opposite stereochemistry at the benzylic carbon, indicating that the reaction proceeded primarily with inversion of configuration. The glutathione conjugates, S-[(R)-1-phenylethyl]glutathione, S-[(S)-1-phenylethyl]glutathione, S-benzylglutathione, and S-methylglutathione were studied as inhibitors of the transferase A catalyzed conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. The order of the inhibitory potency was S-[(S)-1-phenylethyl]glutathione = S-benzylglutathione greater than S-[(R)-1-phenylethyl]glutathione greater than S-methylglutathione. This represented the first demonstration of the stereoselective product inhibition of the glutathione S-transferases.
Background: Asthma exacerbations evoke emergency room visits, progressive loss of lung function and increased mortality. Environmental and industrial toxicants exacerbate asthma, although the underlying mechanisms are unknown. We assessed whether 3 distinct toxicants, salicylic acid (SA), toluene diisocyanate (TDI), and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB) induced airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR) through modulating excitation-contraction coupling in human airway smooth muscle (HASM) cells. The toxicants include a non-sensitizing irritant (SA), respiratory sensitizer (TDI) and dermal sensitizer (DNCB), respectively. We hypothesized that these toxicants induce AHR by modulating excitation-contraction (EC) coupling in airway smooth muscle (ASM) cells.
As an essential element, copper ion (Cu 2 þ ) plays important roles in human beings for its participation in diverse metabolic processes as a cofactor and/or a structural component of enzymes. However, excessive uptake of Cu 2 þ ion gives rise to the risk of certain diseases. So, it is important to develop simple ways to monitor and detect Cu 2 þ ion. In this study, a simple, facile colorimetric sensor for the ultrasensitive determination of Cu 2 þ ion was developed based on the following principle: L-cysteine and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) could be conjugated to form the yellow product 2,4-dinitrophenylcysteine (DNPC), which was measurable at 355 nm; however, upon addition of Cu 2 þ ion, the absorbance of DNPC would be decreased owing to the Cu 2 þ ion catalytic oxidation of L-cysteine to L-cystine in the presence of O 2 . Thus, the colorimetric detection of Cu 2 þ ion could be achieved. The optimal pH, buffer, temperature and incubation time for the colorimetric sensor were obtained of pH 6.8 in 0.1 M HEPES solution, 90°C and 50 min, respectively. A good linearity within the range of 0.8-10 nM (r ¼0.996) was attained, with a high detectability up to 0.5 nM. Analyses of Cu 2 þ ion in drinking water, lake water, seawater and biological samples were carried out and the method performances were found to agree well with that obtained by ICP-MS. The developed simple colorimetric sensor proved applicable for Cu 2 þ ion determination in real samples with high sensitivity and selectivity.
Over the past decades, analytical methods were developed to detect Cu 2 þ ion including inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS), atomic absorption spectroscopy (AAS), electrochemical techniques, fluorescence methods and chromogenic sensors. Methods such as ICP-MS (Wu and Boyle, 1997; Dai et al., 2012) and AAS (Chan and Huang, 2000; Lima et al., 2012) can detect Cu 2 þ ion with high sensitivity and selectivity but with requirements of large instruments. Compared with electrochemical techniques (Liu et al., 1999; Salaun and van den Berg, 2006; Lin et al., 2012) and fluorescence methods (Chan et al., 2010; Yu et al., 2011; Yuan et al., 2013; Zhang et al., 2013) , colorimetric methods are much simpler with detection by naked eyes and UV-vis spectroscopy (Lou et al., 2011; Liu et al., 2013; Shen et al., 2013; Wang et al., 2014) . However, till now, the reported colorimetric methods usually present higher detection limit and cannot easily accomplish real samples analysis. In this study, an ultrasensitive and selective sensor for detection of Cu 2 þ ion based on its catalytic activity on the oxidation of L-cysteine was developed. The concentration of Cu 2 þ ion was quantitatively determined by UV-vis absorbance of 2,4-dinitrophenylcysteine (DNPC), which was formed through the conjugation of L-cysteine and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). The effects of pH, temperature and incubation time on the colorimetric sensor were investigated. Under the optimized conditions, good analytical performances were attained. Furthermore, the potential application of the sensor to real samples including drinking water, lake water, seawater and biological sample was also explored. (Shanghai, China) . Amino acids including L-cysteine, Lcystine, glutathione (GSH), homocysteine (Hcy), tryptophan (Trp), glycine (Gly), threonine (Thr), proline (Pro), arginine (Arg), serine (Ser), methionine (Met) and valine (Val), 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), 4-(2-hydroxyethyl)-1-piperazineethanesulfonic acid (HEPES), phosphate buffer saline (PBS), Britton-Robinson (B-R) and 3-(n-morpholino) propanesulfonic acid (MOPS) were purchased from Sangon Biotechnology Co. Ltd. (Shanghai, China). All other chemicals used in this study were of analytical reagent grade or better. L-cysteine was dissolved in 0.1 M HEPES solution to make the stock concentration of 2 mM (pH 6.8). CDNB was dissolved in ethanol at a concentration of 72 mM. UV-vis spectra were measured on a μ-Quant microplate reader Nanodrop 2000C (Thermo Scientific, USA) with a 1 cm quartz cell.
The hydrazinolysis of 2,4-dinitrophenyl acetate in methanol proceed exclusively through acyl-oxygen scission by a concerted mechanism. The reaction of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene with hydrazine in methanol, acetonitrile and dimethyl sulfoxide undergo uncatalyzed substitution and the formation of the zwitterionic intermediate is the rate-determining step. While 2,4-dinitrobenzene derivatives 1, 2, 3, 4, 5a-i, 6 with hydrazine in DMSO undergo uncatalyzed substitution and the departure of the leaving group is the rate-determining step. The process depends on the basicity of the leaving group and its steric hindrance as well as the possible intramolecular hydrogen bond in the transition state. The reactivity of compounds 5a-i depends on the substituent of the thioaryl ring while the small ρ Y value is due to the sulfides existing preferentially in the skew conformation. The small β lg value (-0.18, r = 0.99) indicated that the reaction of sulfides with hydrazine proceeds with advanced bond formation to the nucleophile and the bond cleavage proceed in a slow extent in the transition state.
The reactions of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene with hydrazine in MeOH, MeCN and DMSO at different www.ccsenet.org/ijc International Journal of Chemistry Vol. 5, No. 3; temperatures were followed spectrophotometrically. Kinetic results suggest that the reaction proceeds by uncatalysed process with the rate determining formation of the zwitterionic intermediate. The plot of H # against log -S # indicates a common mechanism for the reaction in these solvents. The reactivity sequence for the reactions of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene with hydrazine is the order DMSO > MeCN > MeOH. This order depends on the intramolecular and intermolecular hydrogen bonding interactions. Reactions of 1-methoxy-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 2,4-dinitrophenyl phenyl ether, 2,4-dinitrophenyl phenyl sulfide and 2,4-dinitrophenyl phenyl sulfone with hydrazine in DMSO show absence of general base catalysis by a second hydrazine molecule. The plot of S # versus H # values give straight line, except for X = Cl, which indicates a common mechanism for all X-substituent, except for the chlorine leaving group. The reaction proceeds by the mechanism in which the departure of the leaving group at all temperatures is the rate determining step. The mechanism is compatible with the second order kinetic, the electronic nature of the leaving group, the basicities of the leaving groups and the steric effects of the bulky leaving group, the difference in the stabilization of the corresponding transition states TS and the charge polarization of the leaving group X.
Screening of a liver tumour cDNA library from Xenopus laevis resulted in the isolation of a full-length cDNA clone encoding a novel Pi-class amphibian glutathione transferase (GST) isoenzyme (designated as XlGSTP1-1). The gene encodes a protein of 212 amino acids with a calculated molecular mass of 24 428 Da. The product of the gene has been overexpressed in Escherichia coli and characterized. XlGSTP1-1 has one of the highest specific activities towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (1310 µmol/min per mg of protein) obtained with any GST. A notable feature of XlGSTP1-1 is the presence in the H-site of Phe 111 and Pro 208 in place of tyrosine and glycine residues respectively, present in other mammalian Pi-class GSTs. Sitedirected mutagenesis indicate that Phe 111 is involved in substrate specificity of XlGSTP1-1. We provide evidence showing that XlGSTP1-1 is present only in the embryo and its expression might be associated with cellular proliferation.
May 201 5 Received 2 Abstract This study was included 69 persons (26 patients with insulin dependence diabetes mellitus IDDM with mean ages ( 49.57.66) years , and 43 patients with non- insulin dependence diabetes mellitus NIDDM with mean ages (46.167.22) years , for patients admitted to Medical city of Margan in Hilla, Babylon Governorate, Iraq. and 25 healthy person with mean ages (30.724.46) years, as control group. The blood glucose, sera malondialdehyde (MDA), sera glutathione (GSH), glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) and conductivity for erythrocyte suspension are measured and compare with control group. The purified enzyme activity glutathione S-transferase (GST) from erythrocyte using anionic exchanger was measured at 340 nm with using 1-Chloro-2,4-Dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as a substrate at 37 °C. The specific activity of enzyme was calculated .The levels of variables are contacted together with these relationships to the erythrocyte cell wall by comparing with control group.
Glutathione S-transferase (EC 2.5.1.18) was detected in the cytosolic and microsomal fractions of adult Dirofilaria immitis females at respective levels of 30 nmol and 3 nmol min−1 (mg protein)−1 activity with the substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). The transferase activity in the cytosolic fraction of adult Brugia pahangi females was 10 nmol min−1 mg−1 with CDNB; determination of its activity in the microsomal fraction of this filariid was not attempted. These filarial glutathione S-transferases were further characterized after their purification by glutathione-affinity chromatography. Sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of the cytosolic transferase from D. immitis, molecular weight 47 000, yielded a single subunit of around 28 kDa. The cytosolic and microsomal transferases from D. immitis differed in their activity with CDNB, 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, 4-benzylchloride and ethacrynic acid. The cytosolic transferase from B. pahangi was distinguished by its high activity with ethacrynic acid. Both glutathione S-transferases from D. immitis also functioned as a glutathione peroxidase, strongly preferring cumene hydroperoxide as a substrate over hydrogen peroxide. Both were equiactive inhibitors of malonaldehyde formation in the NADPH-microsomal lipid peroxidation system. Thus, in addition to the ability of filarial glutathione S-transferases to detoxify electrophilic xenobiotics, at least those from D. immitis also exhibited selenium-independent glutathione peroxidase activity. Their glutathione S-transferase function suggests a potential role for these enzymes in the leukotriene synthetic pathway, if filariae can form such eicosanoids from arachidonate. Functioning as a glutathione peroxidase, they could serve to protect filarial membrane lipids from peroxidation.
In the present investigation, the safety of novel combinational silver sulfadiazine-bFGF-loaded hydrogel was assured by performing acute skin irritation, sensitization, acute dermal toxicity, and eye irritation in compliance with the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development guidelines. In the skin irritation study, placebo, test, and positive control (0.8% w/v aqueous solution of formaldehyde) were applied on New Zealand rabbits and monitored for abnormal skin responses including erythema and edema. The placebo and test formulation did not induce any adverse reactions and were classified as nonirritating materials. In the skin sensitization test, guinea pigs were sensitized by positive control (0.1% w/v 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in 10% of propylene glycol as a standard skin sensitizing agent), placebo, and test formulations. Weak sensitization was observed in the placebo and test formulation treated groups. Additionally, acute dermal toxicity test was performed in Wistar rats, where no signs of toxicity were observed in biochemical, hematological, and histopathological studies. Moreover, the acute eye irritation test was carried out in rabbits and no abnormal clinical signs were evident in the cornea or iris. As a whole, these findings suggest that the hydrogel formulation does not cause any skin irritation, skin sensitizationand dermal toxic effects, and eye irritation following dermal and ocular applications, respectively. Therefore, all the findings obtained from this preclinical study indicated that this hydrogel formulation is nontoxic and safe for use in animal models.
4-Chlorobenzoate dehalogenase from Pseudomonas sp. strain CBS3 converted 4-chloro-3,5-dinitrobenzoate to 3,5-dinitro-4-hydroxybenzoate and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene to 2,4-dinitrophenol. The activities were 0.13 mU/mg of protein for 4-chloro-3,5-dinitrobenzoate and 0.16 mU/mg of protein for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene compared with 0.5 mU/mg of protein for 4-chlorobenzoate.
The glutathione transferases (GSTs) of maize with activities toward chloroacetanilide herbicides are relatively well characterised, but their range of substrate specificities has not been determined in detail. GST activities toward an extensive range of chemically diverse xenobiotic substrates, including the herbicides atrazine, alachlor, metolachlor and fluorodifen, have been determined in crude and purified preparations from the roots and shoots of dark-grown maize seedlings treated with and without the herbicide-safener dichlormid. With the exception of the activity toward atrazine, specific activities were higher in the roots than in the shoots in all cases. In untreated shoots activities were in the order atrazine = alachlor = metolachlor > fluorodifen with safener-treatment selectively increasing the activity toward the chloroacetanilides and fluorodifen. In the roots the highest GST activities toward herbicides were toward the chloroacetanilides. Dichlormid treatment resulted in an increase in activities toward all four herbicides in the roots of one maize cultivar (Pioneer 3394) but only enhanced the activities toward the chloroacetanilides and fluorodifen in cultivar Artus. Using the non-herbicide 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrate, anion-exchange chromatography showed that the roots and shoots contained a similar range of GST isoenzymes. All of these isoenzymes were enhanced in response to safeners, though the extent of this induction was organ-dependent. GST isoenzymes containing the GST I subunit were purified from safener-treated roots by a combination of hydrophobic interaction chromatography and affinity chromatography using Orange A agarose. Three isoenzymes could then be purified following resolution by anion-exchange chromatography. The three GSTs were termed GST I/I, GST I/II and GST I/III with GST I, II and III referring to the presence of 29 kDa, 27 kDa and 26 kDa subunits respectively. This revised nomenclature for the maize GSTs was considered necessary in view of the continued discovery of new isoenzymes, such as GST I/III, composed of subunits which have been previously described. GST I/I had measurable activity toward atrazine, low activities toward the other herbicides and appreciable activities toward a range of other xenobiotic substrates. GST I/II and the novel GST I/III isoenzymes both showed high activities toward the chloroacetanilides and fluorodifen but lower activities toward the other substrates and negligible activities toward atrazine. The GST II subunit of GST I/II also had activity as a glutathione peroxidase. Our results show that the GST I subunit can form dimers with the GST III subunit in addition to the GST I and GST II subunits and that the degree of specificity toward herbicide substrates of the respective isoenzymes is greater than previously reported. Our results also suggest that the safener-inducible GST II subunit has additional activities as a glutathione peroxidase.
Abstract 2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo- p -dioxin (2,3,7,8-TCDD) was administered intragastrically twice with 4 days interval, to juvenile cod and rainbow trout, total dose 8 μg/kg body weight. Fish were killed after 9 and 17 days and the effects on hepatic xenobiotic metabolizing enzymes were determined by examining aldrin epoxidase (AE), glutathione-S-transferase (GST) against 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and the cytochrome P450-dependent ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase (EROD) activities, and by immunoquantitating cytochrome P4501A1 using an indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). AE and GST activities were not induced. However, 2,3,7,8-TCDD significantly induced EROD activities in rainbow trout and cod to 1450% and 415%, respectively, of the corresponding controls 9 days after the first treatment. The increase in EROD activity was supported by induction of the main catalyst P4501A1 as revealed by ELISA analyses. The distribution pattern of 14 C-labelled 2,3,7,8-TCDD was studied by whole-body autoradiography. The liver concentration of radiolabelled compound in cod exceeded that of the rainbow trout. However, the degree of hepatic enzyme induction did not correspond to the concentration of radiolabelled 2,3,7,8-TCDD in the liver. Despite of the substantially higher level of 2,3,7,8-TCDD in the liver of cod, the EROD induction was lower in this species compared to rainbow trout.
The safener-induced maize (Zea mays L.) glutathione S-transferase, GST II (EC 2.5.1.18) and another predominant isoform, GST I, were purified from extracts of maize roots treated with the safeners R-25788 (N,N-diallyl-2-dichloroacetamide) or R-29148 (3-dichloroacetyl-2,2,5-trimethyl-1,3-oxazolidone). The isoforms GST I and GST II are respectively a homodimer of 29-kDa (GST-29) subunits and a heterodimer of 29- and 27-kDa (GST-27) subunits, while GST I is twice as active with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as GST II, GST II is about seven times more active against the herbicide, alachlor. Western blotting using antisera raised against GST-29 and GST-27 showed that GST-29 is present throughout the maize plant prior to safener treatment. In contrast, GST-27 is only present in roots of untreated plants but is induced in all the major aerial organs of maize after root-drenching with safener. The amino-acid sequences of proteolytic fragments of GST-27 show that it is related to GST-29 and identical to the 27-kDa subunit of GST IV.
In the present study it has been shown that ethacrynic acid can inhibit glutathione S-transferase (GST) of the pi-class irreversibly. [14C]Ethacrynic acid, 0.8 nmol/nmol human P1-1 and 0.8 nmol/nmol rat GST 7-7 could be incorporated, resulting in 65-93% inhibition of the activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). Isoenzymes of the alpha- and mu-class also bound [14C]ethacrynic acid, however without loss of catalytic activity. Incorporation ranged from 0.3 to 0.6 and 0.2 nmol/nmol enzyme for the mu- and alpha-class GST isoenzymes, respectively. For all isoenzymes, incorporation of [14C]ethacrynic acid could be prevented by preincubation with tetrachloro-1,4-benzoquinone, suggesting, that a cysteine residue is the target site. Protection of GST P1-1 against inhibition by ethacrynic acid by the substrate analog S-hexylglutathione, indicates an active site-directed modification. The monobromo and dibromo dihydro derivatives of ethacrynic acid were synthesized in an effort to produce more reactive compounds. The monobromo derivative did not exhibit enhanced irreversible inhibitory capacity. However, the dibromo dihydro derivative inhibited both human and rat GST isoenzymes of the pi-class very efficiently, resulting in 90-96% inhibition of the activity towards CDNB. Interestingly, this compound is also a powerful irreversible inhibitor of the mu-class GST isoenzymes, resulting in 52-70% inhibition. The two bromine atoms only marginally affect the strong (reversible) competitive inhibitory capacity of ethacrynic acid, with IC50 (microM) of 0.4-0.6 and 4.6-10 for the mu- and pi-class GST isoenzymes, respectively.
Curcumin, an antioxidant present in the spice turmeric (Curcuma longa), has been shown to inhibit chemical carcinogenesis in animal models and has been shown to be an anti-inflammatory agent. While mechanisms of its biological activities are not understood, previous studies have shown that it modulates glutathione (GSH)-linked detoxification mechanisms in rats. In the present studies, we have examined the effects of curcumin on GSH-linked enzymes in K562 human leukemia cells. One micromolar curcumin in medium (16 h) did not cause any noticeable change in glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione reductase, and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase activities. Gamma-glutamyl-cysteinyl synthetase activity was induced 1.6-fold accompanied by a 1.2-fold increase in GSH levels. GSH S-transferase (GST) activities towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, and 4-hydroxynonenal (4HNE) were increased in curcumin-treated cells 1.3- and 1.6-fold, respectively (P = 0.05). The GST isozyme composition of K562 cells was determined as follows: 66% of GST Pl-1, 31% of Mu class GST(s), and 3% of an anionic Alpha-class isozyme hGST 5.8, which was immunologically similar to mouse GSTA4-4 and displayed substrate preference for 4HNE. The isozyme hGST 5.8 appeared to be preferentially induced by curcumin, as indicated by a relatively greater increase in activity toward 4HNE. Immunoprecipitation showed that GPx activity expressed by GST 5.8 contributed significantly (approximately 50%) to the total cytosolic GPx activity of K562 cells to lipid hydroperoxides. Taken together, these results suggest that GSTs play a major role in detoxification of lipid peroxidation products in K562 cells, and that these enzymes are modulated by curcumin.
The catalytic characteristics and structure of the M1-1 isoenzyme of rat glutathione (GSH) transferase in which all four tryptophan residues in each monomer are replaced with 5-fluorotryptophan are described. The fluorine-for-hydrogen substitution does not change the interaction of the enzyme with GSH even though two tryptophan residues (Trp7 and Trp45) are involved in direct hydrogen-bonding interactions with the substrate. The rate constants for association and dissociation of the peptide, measured by stopped-flow spectrometry, remain unchanged by the unnatural amino acid. The 5-FTrp-substituted enzyme exhibits a kcat of 73 s-1 as compared to 18 s-1 for the native enzyme toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. That the increase in the turnover number is due to an enhanced rate of product release in the mutant is confirmed by the kinetics of the approach to equilibrium for binding of the product. The crystal structure of the 5-FTrp-containing enzyme was solved at a resolution of 2.0 A by difference Fourier t...
Glutathione transferase (GST) was investigated with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate in tissues specimens of human nasal mucosa. The average +/- (SD) of GST activity in the cytosol was 76.8 +/- 21 nmol/min/mg with a range of 47-113. Using affinity chromatography and isoelectric focusing, the isozymes of GST from human nasal mucosa have been purified and characterized. On the criteria of isoelectric point, substrate specificities, apparent subunit molecular weight, sensitivity to characteristic inhibitors and immunological properties the major GST purified (about 85% of total activity) can be identified as class pi GST. Although a limited amount of class alpha GST was expressed by human nasal mucosa, no class mu isoenzymes was noted. In addition, we have also identified a GST subunit that cannot be related to any of three major classes of human GST.
The resistance mechanism of vetiver (Chrysopogon zizanioides Nash) to atrazine was investigated to evaluate its potential for phytoremediation of environment contaminated with the herbicide. Plants known to metabolise atrazine rely on hydroxylation mediated by benzoxazinones, conjugation catalyzed by glutathione-S-transferases (GST) and dealkylation probably mediated by cytochromes P450. All three possibilities were explored in mature vetiver grown in hydroponics during this research project. Here we report on the role of glutathione-S-transferase in the detoxification of atrazine, as determined in vetiver leaf and root of 5-week- and 8-month-old plants grown in hydroponics. Fresh vetiver roots and leaves were cut to extract and study their GST activities toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and atrazine, using HPLC to quantify the biosynthesis of atrazine conjugates. The global GST activity was three orders of magnitude higher than that of GST isoform able to conjugate atrazine. In vitro activities of conjugation of CDNB were similar in all root and leaf vetiver extracts, whereas activities on atrazine were only detected in leaf extracts. Entire vetiver plants exposed to 14C-atrazine were found to accumulate radioactivity at the tip of leaves under moderate transpiring conditions (75% humidity). Vetiver transformed atrazine mainly into polar compounds, identified as conjugates by TLC analyses. After 20 days of exposure, the proportion of atrazine and metabolites compared to the total penetrated radioactivity into plants was: 50% of conjugates, 28% of atrazine plus possible dealkylates and 22% of unidentified products. The maximum conjugates production was observed at the tip of leaves (29 nmol g−1 fresh biomass), as compared to roots (6 nmol g−1 fresh biomass). Altogether, these metabolic features indicate that conjugation to glutathione was a major metabolic pathway to detoxify atrazine in vetiver.
Summary: This paper reports the adaptation of Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. phaseoli to oxidative stress and the investigation of its overlap with other environmental stress responses. Treatment of R. leguminosarum bv. phaseoli cells with low concentrations of either menadione (MD, a superoxide generating agent) or 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB, which depletes GSH levels) induced an adaptive response which resulted in cells becoming resistant to subsequent treatment with high concentrations of these oxidative stress compounds. There was overlap between the adaptive response to MD-generated superoxide stress and the response previously demonstrated in this organism to H2O2 (A. J. Crockford, G. A. Davis & H. D. Williams, 1995, Microbiology 141, 843-851); pretreatment with H2O2 was protective against cell killing by MD and vice versa. In contrast, similar experiments indicated only a limited overlap between the responses to H2O2 and CDNB-mediated GSH depletion. It was also found that H2O2, but not MD or CDNB, adaptation protected cells against subsequent osmotic challenge and heat shock. Carbon-starved cells were more resistant to H2O2 and MD killing than exponentially growing cultures, but were more sensitive to CDNB-mediated GSH depletion. Therefore, this work shows that there is a substantial, but incomplete overlap between the responses of R. leguminosarum to different forms of oxidative and other environmental stresses.
A population of mummichog (Fundulus heteroclitus) inhabit a site (Atlantic Wood) in the Elizabeth River, VA, heavily contaminated with creosote. Although chronic effects including hepatic neoplasms have been observed in adult mummichog, these fish are resistant to the acute effects (mortality within a few days of exposure) of the creosote-contaminated sediments while fish from a reference site are not. Increased levels and activity of glutathione S-transferases (GST) in Atlantic Wood fish may play a role in this resistance. In the present study, hepatic GSTs from Atlantic Wood and reference site fish were isolated by S-hexylglutathione affinity chromatography. A monoclonal antibody was produced that recognizes a GST that is elevated approximately six-fold in Atlantic Wood fish and two-fold in fish from a moderately contaminated site relative to fish from the reference site. GST activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was elevated approximately four-fold and two-fold in these fish relative to fish from the reference site. The elevated GST has a molecular mass of approximately 27.2 kDa and isoelectric point of 8.1. The N-terminus of the isoform was blocked, preventing N-terminal amino acid determination.
1. The cestode Moniezia expansa and the nematode Ascaris suum both possess enzymes catalysing the conjugation of glutathione (GSH) with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. 2. The GSH-S-aryl transferase (GSH-S-transferase A) was present in the cytosol of the cestode proglottids and of the nematode intestinal epithelial cells. Other tissues did not contain measurable activity. The enzymes from both species had mol. wt. of about 37 000 and broad pH optima around pH 8.3. Both enzymes were inhibited by Cu2+, Fe3+ and Hg2+ at 1 mM and stimulated by Co2+. 3. Neither M. expansa nor A. suum possessed measurable DDT dehydrochlorinase activity. GSH-S-epoxide transferase (GSH-S-transferase E) activity was indicated in both species; neither species effected the conjugation of bromo- or chlorobenzene. 4. Halogenated anthelmintics were not metabolized to GSH conjugates in the helminths studied and did not inhibit GSH-S-aryltransferase activity towards chlorodinitrobenzene.
It is believed that the chemopreventive activity of cruciferous vegetables in the lung and other tissues is exclusively the result of exposure to degradation products of glucosinolates, such as the isothiocyanates, and that the parent glucosinolates make no contribution. In the present study, evidence is presented for the first time that, in rat lung, the intact glucosinolates, glucoraphanin and glucoerucin, can modulate carcinogen-metabolising enzyme systems. The glucosinolates were isolated from cruciferous vegetables and incubated (1-25 μM) with precision-cut rat lung slices for 24h. Both glucosinolates, at concentrations as low as 1 μM, up-regulated the O-deethylation of ethoxyresorufin and the apoprotein levels of CYP1A1 and CYP1B1; supplementation of the incubation medium with myrosinase, the enzyme that converts glucosinolates to their corresponding isothiocyanates, abolished the rise in ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase activity. In contrast, neither glucosinolate, at the concentrations studied, influenced quinone reductase activity in the lung slices, but addition of myrosinase to the glucosinolate incubations led to a marked rise in activity. Glutathione S-transferase activity, monitored using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as the accepting substrate, was elevated in lung slices exposed to glucoraphanin. GSTα protein levels were increased by glucoraphanin and, to a much lesser extent, glucoerucin. It may be concluded that intact glucosinolates can modulate the activity of pulmonary carcinogen-metabolising enzyme systems, and can thus contribute to the documented chemopreventive activity of cruciferous vegetables in the lung.
Cholestatic liver disease decreases the activity of a basic hepatic defensive enzyme, glutathione S-transferase (GST), but the underlying molecular mechanisms are poorly understood. Reduction of GST level in hepatocytes may have a major impact on the decreased activity of the enzyme in cholestasis. To test this hypotheses, we analyzed the enzymatic activity and concentration of the principal isoenzymes (class alpha and class mu) of hepatic GSTs during cholestasis induced by bile duct ligation (BDL) in rats. The total and specific class mu isoenzymes GST activities in the liver cytosol were measured colorimetrically, using as a substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, respectively. The level of isoenzymes was estimated by measuring the concentration of different GST subunits separated by sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) electrophoresis. The total GST activity did not change during the first week and decreased about two-fold during the second week after BDL. The activity of the class mu isoenzymes increased during the first week and returned to the control level on Day 10 of cholestasis. On Days 3-14 after BDL, SDS electrophoresis revealed progressive reduction in the concentration of the Y a and Y c subunits comprising the class alpha isoenzymes of GST. The concentration of the Y b1 and/or Y b2 subunits comprising the class mu isoenzymes increased during the first week of cholestasis and returned to the control level thereafter. These results suggest that the reduction of total GST activity in the rat liver cytosol after BDL is caused by a selective depletion of the class alpha isoenzymes.
The mechanism for the biosynthesis of PGE 1 and PGF 1␣ (formed by using dihomo-␥-linolenic acid instead of arachidonic acid) (5) by sheep vesicular glands was postulated to proceed via a cyclic endoperoxide (6) later designated PGH 2 (7-9). In short, the reactions catalyzed by cyclooxygenase start by stereospecific abstraction of a hydrogen atom from carbon 13 of arachidonic acid. The resulting carbon radical reacts with molecular oxygen followed by the formation of the 9,11-endoperoxide and the bond between C-8 and C-12. Thereafter, a second molecule of oxygen is incorporated at C-15 followed by reduction to a hydroperoxy group, and PGG 2 is formed. This hydroperoxy group can subsequently be reduced by the peroxidase activity of the cyclooxygenase (in the presence of a reducing agent: e.g., glutathione) thus forming PGH 2 . The enzyme(s) responsible for the isomerization of PGH 2 into PGE 2 are not well known. Attempts have been made to isolate the microsomal PGE synthase from ovine and bovine seminal vesicles, an organ known to contain high levels of activity (10, 11) . These studies have shown that the microsomal PGE synthase can be solubilized and partly purified. However, the enzyme activity, which depended on glutathione, rapidly deteriorated during the purification attempts. Two monoclonal antibodies, designated IGG 1 (hei-7) and IGG 1 (hei-26) and raised against partly purified PGE synthase from sheep seminal vesicles, could immunoprecipitate two proteins from sheep seminal vesicles with molecular masses of 17.5 and 180 kDa, respectively (12). Both of these precipitated proteins were found to possess glutathione-dependent PGE synthase activity but no glutathione Stransferase activity. The 17.5-kDa protein showed a K m for PGH 2 of 40 M, similar to what had been described by others investigating the microsomal PGE synthase (11). In contrast, the larger protein demonstrated a K m for PGH 2 of 150 M. Of interest, the IGG 1 (hei-7) antibody [but not the IGG 1 (hei-26) antibody], when incubated with intact sheep vesicular gland microsomes, caused coprecipitation of PGE synthase and cyclooxygenase activities, thereby demonstrating that the 17.5-kDa protein and the cyclooxygenase both are associated with the same membrane systems. Microsomal PGE synthase activity also has been measured in various rat organs (13), and high glutathione-dependent activity was found in the deferens duct, genital accessory organs, and kidney. In the same study, glutathione-independent microsomal PGE synthase activity was observed in heart, spleen, and uterus. Additional proteins, belonging to the cytosolic glutathione Stransferase superfamily, also have been described to possess PGE, PGD, and PGF synthase activities (14). Recently, a microsomal 16.5-kDa protein was purified from sheep seminal vesicles possessing glutathione-dependent PGF 2␣ synthase activity (15). The enzyme (prostaglandin endoperoxide reductase) also could catalyze the reduction of cumene hydroperoxide whereas 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (typical substrate for various glutathione S-transferases) was not a substrate. In this paper, we describe the identification and characterization of human PGE synthase.
Abstract Increases of glutathione S -transferase (GST) activity were evaluated in cell suspension cultures of Zea mays (cv. Black Mexican Sweet) treated with the herbicide safener benoxacor. A time course analysis of [ 14 C]benoxacor uptake indicated that increases of extractable radioactivity were detected as early as 15 min after benoxacor treatment and continued increasing through 48 h after treatment. A time course analysis of benoxacor-induced increases of GST activity determined that GST activity, assayed with the herbicide metolachlor as a substrate, was detectably increased 4 h after 10 μ M benoxacor treatment and continued increasing until it reached maximum levels 24 h after treatment. Anion exchange chromatography (on Mono-Q resins) of total GST activity extracted from 7-day-old cultures resolved several constitutively expressed GST activities that were detected when metolachlor or 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene were used as substrates. Three of these activities were increased by 10 μ M benoxacor treatment. Proteins in anion exchange chromatography fractions containing GST activity were immunoblotted and probed with polyclonal antisera raised against maize GST I or a mixture of maize GST I and GST III. No more than two polypeptides were detected in three fractions, indicating that GST I, GST III, or polypeptides with sequence homology to GST I or GST III are expressed in BMS cultures. The results obtained from anion exchange chromatography and immunoblotting analyses of protein extracts from benoxacor-treated BMS cells were similar to previously reported results obtained from the same analyses using benoxacor-treated maize seedlings. Both basal levels and benoxacor-induced increases of GST activity, as well as the incorporation of [ 3 H]leucine into total soluble protein, were reduced by 10 and 100 μ M cycloheximide treatment. This suggests that de novo protein synthesis is required for both basal levels and benoxacor-induced increases of GST activity. Similarly, 10 and 100 μM cordycepin treatment reduced both benoxacor-induced increases of GST activity and the incorporation of [ 3 H]uracil into total RNA. This suggests that benoxacor induces the de novo synthesis of mRNA transcripts required for increases of GST activity.
Abstract The equilibrium binding of the non-substrate ligands 8-anilino-1-naphthalene sulfonate and bromosulfophthalein to porcine class π glutathione S -transferase (pGSTP1-1) was studied using a variety of techniques (size-exclusion HPLC, steady-state fluorescence, second-derivative spectroscopy, and chemical modification of cysteines). Both ligands share the same binding site which has a highly hydrophobic surface. Occupation of the site inhibits catalytic function with glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in a non-competitive manner. Data obtained from different structural probes either located at strategic regions of pGSTPI-1 (Trp-28, Trp-38 and Cys-45) or distributed throughout the protein molecule (tyrosine residues) suggest that binding induces a microstructural change that impacts on the functional conformation of the active site.
Treatment of rats with cisplatin or with cisplatin after chronic pre-exposure to cadmium induced a decrease in kidney cytochrome P-450 and glutathione levels, and in glutathione peroxidase and reductase activities. Furthermore, cadmium and cisplatin enhanced lipid peroxidation, oxidized glutathione and N-glucuronyl transferase activity. Glutathione S-transferase (substrate: 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene) was increased and decreased by cadmium and cisplatin respectively. On morphological observation, cadmium nephrotoxicity was characterized by tubular proximal damage with mitochondrial and lysosomal changes and a widespread vesiculation of tubular cells. A marked focal tubular necrosis associated with cyst formation was observed in cisplatin nephrotoxicity. On the basis of the measured biochemical, functional and histological parameters, it is concluded that cadmium pretreatment did not potentiate the nephrotoxic effect of cisplatin.
The kinetics of the reaction between the haem-peptide microperoxidase-8 and human placental glutathione S-transferase π have been followed using the quenching of the MP-8 Soret absorbance, which is observed on mixing the two species. Under pseudo-first-order conditions ([MP-8]≫[GST]) and over a concentration range in which the MP-8 is monomeric in aqueous solution, the binding curves are biphasic. The rapid phase of binding is associated with a hydrophobic site at or close to the binding site for the co-substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), while the slow-binding phase reflects hydrophobic interaction with or spatially close to the bilirubin binding site on the enzyme. The mechanism for the interaction has been shown to be of the random sequential form with perturbation due to solvational elimination of the fast site. These studies recommend MP-8 as a useful non-substrate ligand model for monomeric haemin with which to study the kinetics and mechanism of ligand binding to the glutathione S-transferases.
Glutathione transferases (GSTs) comprise a major detoxification system in helminth parasites, displaying both catalytic and non-catalytic activities. The kinetic mechanism of these enzymes is complex and depends on the isoenzyme which is being analyzed. Here, we characterized the kinetic mechanism of rEgGST1, a recombinant form of a cytosolic GST from Echinococcus granulosus (EgGST1), which is related to the Mu-class of mammalian enzymes, using the canonical substrates glutathione (GSH) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). Initial rate and product inhibition studies were consistent with a steady-state random sequential mechanism, where both substrates are bound to the enzyme before the products are released. Kinetic constants were also determined (pH 6.5 and 30 °C). Moreover, rEgGST1 lowered the pKa of GSH from 8.71 ± 0.07 to 6.77 ± 0.08, and enzyme-bound GSH reacted with CDNB 1 × 105 times faster than free GSH at pH 7.4. Finally, the dissociation of the enzyme-GSH complex was studied by means of intrinsic fluorescence, as well as that of the complex with the anthelminth drug mebendazole. This is the first report on mechanistic issues related to a helminth parasitic GST.
Glutathione S-transferases (GST) are phase II biotransformation enzymes influenced by exposure to foreign compounds and are proposed as biomarkers of environmental pollution. The hepatic and renal cytosolic GST isoenzymes from juvenile Atlantic eels were isolated and partially characterized. In both organs, three different GST isoenzymes were purified using HPLC and the final subcellular purified fraction resulted in enzymatic subunits of approximately 24,500 Da. Total GST activity was significantly higher towards the substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) than the ethacrynic acid (ETHA). Induction of isoenzymes of GST was studied after intraperitoneal treatment with a single dose (25 mg/kg bw) of a polychlorinated biphenyls mixture. In the hepatic cytosol, an inductory effect on the major enzymatic isoform was observed when comparing treated with control eels. This was directly related to statistically significant (P < 0.05) differences in total GST activity toward the CDNB between treated and control groups, with an increase of 33.6% of GST total activity measured in the last subcellular purified samples. In the kidney cytosol, PCB treatment did not affect GST activity. Significant differences were observed when analyzing the effect of PCB treatment on the main GST subunit height (retention time of 27 min). These results indicate that hepatic GST profiles could be considered as a good tool in environmental studies as specific biomarkers of contamination.
1. The influence of the antifungal agent clotrimazole on cytosolic glutathione S-transferase activities was studied in male Wistar rats. 2. Animals received clotrimazole by gastric lavage for 3 days (75 mg/kg per day). Hepatic glutathione S-transferase activity was determined with five different substrates: 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB), p-nitro-benzyl chloride (PNBC), ethacrynic acid (EA) and trans-4-phenyl-3-buten-2-one (TPBO). 3. The largest increases in glutathione S-transferase activity were found with CDNB, DCNB and PNBC (+61%, +50% and +50%, respectively, when expressed per mg of cytosolic protein). Enzyme activity toward EA was induced to a lower extent (+33%). Changes in the formation of the conjugate of TPBO were relatively small (+22%). 4. These data indicate a differential induction of glutathione S-transferase isoenzymes and suggest that clotrimazole is a phenobarbital-type inducer of enzyme activity.
The resistance to methamidophos and dichlorvos in the field populations of Plutella xylostella (Lepidoptera: Yponomeutidae), collected from Fuzhou, Fujian, China from October 1998 to January 2003, was determined using a leaf-dipping method with 3rd instar larvae. P. xylostella's resistance to insecticides, methamidophos and dichlorvos, was significantly higher in autumn and spring than in summer. Apparently, seasonal variations of the insecticide resistance existed in the field population of Plutella xylostella. Therefore, the effects of temperature on the activities of acetylcholinesterase (AChE), carboxyesterase (CarE) and glutathione-S-transferase (GST), and the bimolecular rate constant ( Ki ) of AChE in the larvae of P. xylostella were investigated.The AChE activity was determined with acethythiochloine (ATCh) iodide as a substrate in the presence of 5,5′-dithiobis (2-nitrobenzoic acid) (DTNB) in the pH 7.8 phosphate buffer at 25 ℃. The CarE activity was measured with 1-naphthyl acetate (α-NA) as a substrate in the pH 7.8 phosphate buffer containing eserine at 37 ℃. The GST activity was measured with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as a substrate in the pH 7.4 phosphate buffer at 25 ℃. To determine the Ki of AChE, AChE solutions were mixed with insecticides and incubated at various constant temperatures in a water bath. At different time periods, the incubated solutions were sampled for residual enzymatic activities in an ATCh solution. All experiments were carried out in triplicate, in the presence or absence of the insecticides. In order to study the temperature effects of AChE, CarE and GST on the enzymatic activities, P. xylostella larvae were reared in an environmental chamber at 35 ℃ and 25 ℃ for 2 days, and at 5 ℃ for 4 and 30 days. Then, the 4th instar larva was used for the determination of AChE, CarE and GST activities. The biochemical analysis for the larvae with the different rearing temperatures was conducted simultaneously. In comparison with the larvae reared at 25 ℃ for 2 days, the activities of CarE and GST were significantly inhibited when reared at 35 ℃ for 2 days or 5 ℃ for 30 days. The AChE activity was also considerably inhibited when reared at 35 ℃ for 2 days. There was no apparent activity inhibition on the three enzymes observed when the P. xylostella larvae were reared at 5 ℃ for 4 days. P. xylostella larvae were also reared in an environmental chamber at 35 ℃ and 25 ℃ for 2 days and 5 ℃ for 30 days to study the rearing temperature on the Ki value of AChE. The 4th instar larva was subsequently used for the Ki determination. The enzyme and insecticide mixtures were incubated at 25 ℃. No significant effect on the Ki of AChE to the methamidophos and carbofuran in P. xylostella larvae was found. Under the constant 25 ℃ rearing temperature, the incubating temperature was found to significantly affect the Ki of AChE of P. xylostella larvae to the insecticides. The Ki values to methamidophos, dichlorvos and carbofuran at 37 ℃ were 1.33, 1.60 and 1.75 times higher than those incubated at 25 ℃, respectively. The results suggested that the environmental temperature could affect the detoxifying metabolism and the inhibition of AChE in P. xylostella . The effects of the seasonal variation of temperature on the resistance to organophosphates and its toxicological mechanism in P. xylostella were discussed.
Because acute infection and inflammation affect drug metabolism and drug-metabolizing enzymes, the effect of the acute-phase response on the expression of glutathione S-transferase (GST) isoenzymes, glutathione synthesis, and several antioxidant enzymes was investigated. Hepatic expression of GST isozymes, positive and negative acute-phase reactants, and antioxidant enzymes were determined by Northern blotting and hybridization with gene-specific oligonucleotide probes after lipopolysaccharide treatment of rats. Lipopolysaccharide caused the expected acute-phase response as judged by the increased expression of positive and decreased expression of negative acute-phase proteins. The messenger RNA (mRNA) expression of the major hepatic rat GST isozymes A1, A2, A3, M1, and M2 was decreased 50% to 90%. Total hepatic GST activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was also significantly decreased. mRNA expression of γ-glutamylcysteine synthetase (GCS) large subunit and catalase was reduced by approximately 60%. GCS enzyme activity was also decreased, resulting in a 35% decrease in the hepatic content of reduced glutathione 4 days after lipopolysaccharide challenge. Mn-Superoxide dismutase expression was increased 13-fold, and thioredoxin level was elevated 3-fold after lipopolysaccharide challenge. The expression of all parameters determined returned to near control levels 7 days after treatment. Together, these data show that GSTs and GCS are negative acute-phase proteins and that decreased GCS activity results in a decrease in hepatic glutathione content. Thus, in addition to the phase I drug-metabolizing enzymes known to be decreased during the acute-phase response, some phase II enzymes involved in the elimination of xenobiotics and carcinogens are also decreased.
The electrophilic compound diethyl maleate (DEM, 10−5–10−3M) decreased the content of non-protein sulfhydryl groups in mouse thymocytes in vitro and affected mitotic activity, spontaneous migration and viability of the cells. The mitotic activity of mouse thymocytes was most sensitive to DEM. It is probable that the decrease of the cell content of reduced glutathione (GSH) led to a failure of GSH-dependent cellular functions, such as mitosis and migration. Cytosolic supernatants of mouse and rat thymocytes exhibited GSH S-transferase activities on DEM and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as electrophilic substrates.
Quantitative estimations of glutathione S-transferase activities with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as the electrophilic second substrate, in 142 postmortem human tissue specimens derived from 34 different organs of one or more of 13 individuals belonging to various age groups, are presented. Collectively the data indicate: (1) all tissues examined have appreciable levels of enzyme activity; (2) liver, kidney, lung, muscle, heart, adrenal glands, pancreas, and stomach of fetal origin possess higher enzyme activities than those of the adults, and (3) there are wide interindividual variations in the tissue enzyme activities.
The in vitro effect of phenobarbital on glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) in rat hepatocyte culture was investigated. Treatment of hepatocytes with a medium containing 6 or 8 mM phenobarbital for 20 h increased the specific activity of GST approx. 140% and 160% of control, respectively. When induction of GST by phenobarbital treatment was observed, the cellular level of phenobarbital determined by HPLC was approx. 10 - 15 micrograms/mg of 20000 x g supernatant protein of hepatocytes. Thus, an inductive effect of phenobarbital on GST was observed in vitro as well as in rat liver. It was suggested that a certain level of cellular phenobarbital was necessary for the induction.
The postnatal development of glutathione S-transferase activities was investigated in post-microsomal supernatants of the livers of male rats. A period of up to the age of 200 days was covered, using styrene 7,8-oxide as the electrophilic substrate for the transferase. Activity in animals on the day of delivery was small but significantly above the level of spontaneous conjugation. During 5 weeks postpartum the specific activity increased regularly to about sixfold when expressed as per mg of cytosolic protein, thereafter the activity slightly decreased. During the 5th postnatal week a sudden decrease in activity was observed, but it returned to the original value within about 5 days. The effect of weaning on this phenomenon was studied by comparing weaned with non-weaned rats in an investigation of glutathione S-transferase maturation in the 4th and 5th week postpartum, using styrene 7,8-oxide and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as the electrophilic substrates. Weaned rats exhibited the decrease in activity only when styrene oxide was the substrate. It is concluded that glutathione S-transferase levels in rat liver are low at birth, and develop gradually during the first 5 postnatal weeks. Transferase activities towards styrene oxide and chlorodinitrobenzene appears to mature independently and are partly associated with weaning.
In previous studies, the transport of dinitrophenyl-glutathione from erythrocytes has been extensively investigated. However, the effect of treatment of erythrocytes with such xenobiotics on free-SH status of cells has not been well documented. Also, the effects of N-acetyl-L-cysteine or other-SH containing compounds on glutathione conjugate transport have not been investigated. The objectives of the present study were to investigate how the presence N-acetyl-L-cysteine and L-cysteine affect the free-SH status of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene treated erythrocytes and how N-acetyl-L-cysteine or L-cysteine affects the rate of dinitrophenyl-glutathione conjugate transport form erythrocytes. Our results indicated that L-cysteine is more efficient than N-acetyl-L-cysteine in increasing the free-SH content of erythrocytes in the presence of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. At the end of 20 min of exposure, free-SH levels remained at 5.3 mumol/ml erythrocyte in the presence of L-cysteine. However, in the presence of N-acetyl-L-cysteine the free-SH level was 2 mumol/ml erythrocyte. In the absence of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenze, L-cysteine uptake by erythrocytes was not efficient compared to N-acetyl-L-cysteine. The free-SH concentrations in the presence of N-acetyl-L-cysteine and L-cysteine, in this case were, 9 +/- 1 and 1.5 +/- 0.1 mumol/ml erythrocytes respectively. These results clearly suggest that 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene stimulates the L-cysteine uptake in eryhtrocytes by a mechanism not described before. Our results also indicated that 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene induced L-cysteine uptake is a Na(+) and ATP dependent process. Replacement of NaCl with LiCl decreased the L-cysteine uptake by about 5-fold and in the presence of NaF decrease in L-cysteine uptake was about 2 fold. Our results conclude the presence of an in vitro L-cysteine uptake mechanism in erythrocytes stimulated by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene.
In the present paper we describe both spontaneous dilutional inactivation of GST π and inactivation induced by the non-substrate ligand microperoxidase-8 (MP-8), a monomeric aqueous phase model for ferriprotoporphyrin IX in its reactions with heme-binding proteins [4]; the GST co-substrate, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB); and the xenobiotic pre-carcinogen ethylene dibromide (EDB). A common origin for the inactivation, namely active site solvation, is suggested on the basis of an invariant inactivation rate constant
Incubation of Ca2(+)-loaded rat liver mitochondria with N-acetyl-p-benzoquinone imine (NAPQI) or its two dimethylated analogues resulted in a concentration dependent Ca2+ release, with the following order of potency: 2,6-(Me)2-NAPQI greater than NAPQI greater than 3,5-(Me)2-NAPQI. The quinone imine-induced Ca2+ release was associated with NAD(P)H oxidation and was prevented when NAD(P)+ reduction was stimulated by the addition of 3-hydroxybutyrate. Mitochondrial glutathione was completely depleted within 0.5 min by all three quinone imines, even at low concentrations that did not result in Ca2+ release. Depletion of mitochondrial GSH by pretreatment with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene enhanced quinone imine-induced NAD(P)H oxidation and Ca2+ release. However, 3-hydroxybutyrate protected from quinone imine-induced Ca2+ release in GSH-depleted mitochondria. Mitochondrial membrane potential was lost after the addition of quinone imines at concentrations that caused rapid Ca2+ release; however, subsequent addition of EGTA led to the complete recovery of the transmembrane potential. In the absence of Ca2+, the quinone imines caused only a small and transient loss of the transmembrane potential. Taken together, our results suggests that the quinone imine-induced Ca2+ release from mitochondria is a consequence of NAD(P)H oxidation rather than GSH depletion, GSSG formation, or mitochondrial inner membrane damage.
Curcumin, an antioxidant isolated from turmeric (curcuma longa), has been shown to attenuate chemical carcinogenesis in rodents. Previous studies have shown that curcumin causes an increase in glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity in rodent liver which may contribute to its anti-cancer and anti-inflammatory activities. Since the effects of curcumin on specific GST isozymes and other glutathione (GSH)-linked enzymes are incompletely defined, we have examined in the present studies the effect of curcumin on hepatic non-protein sulfhydryls and GSH-linked enzymes in male Sprague-Dawley rats. When rats were fed curcumin at doses from 1 to 500 mg kg-1 body weight daily for 14 days, the induction of hepatic GST activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was found to be biphasic, with maximal induction of about 1.5 fold at the 25 to 50 mg kg-1 body weight dosage. At higher doses, a decrease was observed in the activity and in the rats treated with 500 mg kg-1 curcumin this activity was below the levels observed in controls. In contrast, GST activity towards 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE) increased in a saturable, dose dependent manner. Western-blot analyses of liver cytosols revealed that curcumin caused a dose dependent induction of rGST 8-8, an isozyme which is known to display the highest activity towards 4-HNE, a highly toxic product of lipid peroxidation. Glutathione peroxidase (GPx) activity towards cumene hydroperoxide in liver homogenate was also found to be increased in a saturable manner with respect to curcumin dose. Our results suggest that induction of enzymes involved in the detoxification of the electrophilic products of lipid peroxidation may contribute to the anti-inflammatory and anti-cancer activities of curcumin.
The postnatal development in male Sprague-Dawley rats of hepatic glutathione S-transferase B (ligandin) in relation to the other glutathione S-transferases is described. The concentration of glutathione S-transferase B in 1-day-old male rats is about one-fifth of that in adult animals. The enzyme reaches adult concentrations 4-5 weeks later. When assessed by substrate specificity or immunologically, the proportion of transferase B relative to the other glutathione S-transferases is high during the first week after birth. At this age, 67.5% of the transferase activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene is immunoprecipitable by anti-(transferase B), compared with about 50% in adults and older pups. Between the second and the fifth postnatal week, the fraction of transferase B increases in parallel fashion with the other transferases in hepatic cytosol. Neither L-thyroxine nor cortisol induce a precocious increase in glutathione S-transferase activity. Phenobarbital did induce transferase activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene in both pups and adults. The extent of induction by phenobarbital was a function of basal activity during development such that the percentage stimulation remained constant from 5 days postnatally to adulthood.
Drosophila melanogaster glutathione S-transferase D3 (DmGSTD3) has a shorter amino acid sequence as compared to other GSTs known in the fruit flies. This is due to the 15 amino acid N-terminal truncation in which normally active amino acid residue is located. The work has made use of homology modeling to visualize the arrangement of amino acid side chains in the glutathione (GSH) substrate cavity. The identified amino acids were then replaced with amino acids without functional groups in the side chains and the mutants were analyzed kinetically. Homology modeling revealed that the side chains of Y89 and Y97 were shown facing toward the substrate cavity proposing their possible role in catalyzing the conjugation. Y97A and Y89A GSH gave large changes in Km (twofold increase), Vmax (fivefold reduction), and Kcat /Km values for GSH suggesting their significant role in the conjugation reaction. The replacement at either positions has not affected the affinity of the enzyme toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as no significant change in values of Kmax was observed. The replacement, however, had significantly reduced the catalytic efficiency of both mutants with (Kcat /Km )(GSH) and (Kcat /Km )(CDNB) of eight- and twofold reduction. The recombinant DmGSTD3 has shown no activity toward 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, 2,4-hexadienal, 2,4-heptadienal, p-nitrobenzyl chloride, ethacrynic acid, and sulfobromophthalein. Therefore, it was evident that DmGSTD3 has made use of distal amino acids Y97 and Y89 for GSH conjugation.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are a family of multifunctional proteins playing important roles in detoxification of harmful physiological and xenobiotic compounds in organisms. In our study, a gene encoding a GST from Proteus mirabilis strain V7, gstPm-4, was cloned and conditionally expressed in Escherichia coli strain BL21(DE3). The purified GstPm-4 protein, with an estimated molecular mass of approximately 23kDa, was able to conjugate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and bind to the GSH-affinity matrix. Real-time reverse transcriptase PCR suggested that mRNA level of gstPm-4 was increased in the presence of CdCl2, CuCl2, HgCl2 and PbCl2, respectively. Correspondingly, overexpression of gstPm-4 in the genetically engineered bacterium Top10/pLacpGst exhibited higher heavy metal resistance compared to the control Top10/pLacP3. Another genetically engineered bacterium Top10/pBATGst, in which the DNA encoding GstPm-4 protein was fused with the DNA encoding Pfa1-based auto surface display system, was built. Top10/pBATGst could constitutively express the chimeric GstPm-4 and anchor it onto the cell surface subsequently. Almost 100% of the Hg(2+) within the range of 0.1-100 nM was adsorbed by Top10/pBATGst, and 80% of the bounded Hg(2+) could be desorbed from bacterial cells when pH was adjusted to 6.0. Thus, Top10/pBATGst can be potentially used for efficient treatment of Hg(2+)-contaminated aquatic environment.
The protective effect of quercetin against oxidant-induced cell injury (hypoxanthine/xanthine oxidase system) was studied in the renal tubular epithelial cell line LLC-PK1. Pretreatment with quercetin provided protection from structural and functional cell damage in a concentration-dependent manner (10–100 μM). Comparison with structural variants revealed that the protective property of quercetin depends on the number of hydroxyl substituents in the B-ring, the presence of an extended C-ring chromophore, 3-D-planarity and lipophilicity, indicating that membrane affinity is essential for protection. The hypothesis that quercetin exerts its protective effects via inhibition of lipid peroxidation was further examined. Protection by quercetin was found when lipid peroxidation, assessed by the release of malondialdehyde, was initiated by H2O2 or by the combination of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and aminotriazole. In contrast, the bioflavonoid was not protective when oxidative cell damage was induced by menadio...
Microsomal glutathione transferase has hitherto only been purified from mammalian species. N-ethylmaleimide and trypsin activation (discriminating features of this enzyme) has only been observed in microsomes from mammals. In this paper we describe the first isolation and characterization of a non-mammalian microsomal glutathione transferase from frog (Xenopus laevis) liver. This protein has a molecular weight similar to that of the mammalian enzyme (approximately 17 kDa), but cannot be activated by N-ethylmaleimide or trypsin. In fact the enzyme is rapidly inactivated by this sulfhydryl reagent and protease. It thus appears that N-ethylmaleimide activation is not an obligatory property of microsomal glutathione transferase. The frog liver microsomal glutathione transferase has one of the highest specific activities towards the second substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) (200 mumol/min mg) obtained with any glutathione transferase and accounts for the high activity found in frog liver microsomes. The kcat/K(m) for glutathione and CDNB are 0.017 and 1.1 x 10(6) M-1 s-1, respectively. The enzyme also functions as a glutathione peroxidase (dilinoleoyl phosphatidylcholine hydroperoxide is reduced (5.2 mumol/min mg)). It is now evident that a highly active microsomal glutathione transferase, with a molecular weight similar to that of the mammalian enzymes also exists in a non-mammal species.
Abstract Non-selenium glutathione peroxidase was isolated from calf liver to approximately 70% of purity (by analytical and sodiumdodecyl sulfate-gel electrophoresis) by a simple purification procedure. The preparation had a specific activity of 74 units/mg with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrate and 14 units/mg with cumene hydroperoxide (COP). Both the peroxidase and transferase activities of the enzyme were markedly inhibited by cadmium, methylmercury, mercury, and lead. Of the various metal ions tested, cadmium was the most potent inhibitor. The nature of the inhibition of the transferase activity by metal ions was noncompetitive with respect to glutathione and CDNB. The peroxidase activity also was inhibited noncompetitively with respect to glutathione and COP. The inhibition constants ( K i ) for cadmium, methylmercury, mercury, and lead were calculated to be 2, 4, 6.5, and 9 × 10 −5 m , respectively, for the transferase activity and 1.5, 7, 9, and 3 × 10 −6 m , respectively, for the peroxidase activity. These findings suggest that metal ion-induced lipid peroxidation may be mediated in part via inhibition of non-selenium glutathione peroxidase activity. In addition, metal ion toxicity may be expressed in part through inhibition of glutathione transferase activity which plays an important role in the detoxification of a broad spectrum of compounds.
A predicted tau Glutathione S-transferase (GST) subunit encoding gene, named GhGST, was isolated from Gossypium hirsutum with RACE method from SSH library based on Verticillium dahliae stress. The data revealed an open reading frame of 678 bp encoding a protein of 225 amino acids with a molecular weight of 25.821 kDa. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR analysis showed that the mRNA of GhGST was expressed in root, stem and leaf. And the content of GhGST expression increased under Verticillium dahliae stress in root. The expression of GhGST gene was verified by transformation in E. coli BL21 (DE3) strain with the recombinant expression vector pET-32A. GST activity assay showed the crude GhGST protein had obvious activity to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) substrate.
The rate of glutathione conjugation with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was measured in specimens of human liver (n = 93), sigmoid colon (n = 56), renal cortex (n = 67) and lung (n = 68). In the liver there was a weak but significant (r = - 0.247 p = 0.017) negative correlation between the activity of glutathione transferase and the liver donor's age. Such a correlation was not found in the renal cortex, lung and colon. In the renal cortex and in lung the rate of glutathione conjugation with CDNB was a little but significantly (p < 0.05) higher in women than men, whereas no sex-dependent difference was observed in the liver and colon. The distribution of glutathione transferase activity was polymorphic in the mucosa of colon and renal cortex of men but not in that of women. Smoking seems not to affect the glutathione conjugation rate with CDNB in lung. The activity of glutathione transferase was 2-, 6-, and 7-fold greater in liver than in the renal cortex, lung and colon, respectively. There was a large interindividual variability of the hepatic glutathione transferase activity, and because this variability, 15% of the population studied catalyzed the glutathione conjugation with CDNB at a rate similar to those of the renal cortex and duodenum. The subjects with low expression of the hepatic glutathione transferase should be more exposed to the effects of toxic and carcinogenic compounds.
Regional differences in vulnerability to xenobiotic liver damage may relate to the distribution of the detoxication capacity of the glutathione S-transferases (GST). HPLC analysis of cell lysates obtained by digitonin infusion from either the periportal or the perivenous region revealed that the content of all the GST subunits investigated (1, 2, 3, 4 and 8) was higher in the perivenous region. The strongest perivenous dominance was observed for subunit 1 (Ya) and the alpha class appeared to be more zonated that the mu class. A similar perivenous dominance was observed by analysis of GST activity with either 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), 1,2-dichloronitrobenzene (DCNB) or trans-4-phenyl-3-buten-2-one (PBO) as substrate. In contrast, with cumene hydroperoxide (CuOOH) or tert-butyl hydroperoxide (tBOOH) as substrate a reciprocal twofold periportal dominance was observed. Induction by pretreatment with beta-naphthoflavone reduced or abolished the perivenous dominance of the alpha-subunits 1, 2 and 8. In contrast, after pretreatment with 3-methylcholanthrene, only the acinar gradient of subunits 2 (Yc) was abolished, while the strong perivenous gradient subunit 1 (Ya) was maintained and that of subunit 8 (Yk) increased. CDNB based assays demonstrated that beta-naphtoflavone treatment reduced (from 2.1 to 1.4) while 3-methyl cholanthrene enhanced (to 2.6) the perivenous/periportal GST activity ratio. Assays based on CuOOH or tBOOH indicated that neither the Se-dependent nor the Se-independent glutathione peroxidase activity nor its acinar distribution was affected by the inducers. These results demonstrated that although the expression of all investigated members of the alpha and mu classes is higher in the perivenous region, there are marked isozyme differences, the acinar gradient being particularly prominent for subunit 1 (Ya). The distinct difference in the acinar induction pattern of GST Ya between beta-naphthoflavone and 3-methylcholanthrene resembles that reported for cytochrome P450 (CYP1A1 and CYP1A2), also members of the aryl hydrocarbon (Ah) receptor genes, suggesting common regionally acting regulatory elements in the expression of these genes in the liver.
Three glutathione S-transferases from Lucilia cuprina (Australian sheep blowfly) pupae were purified by affinity chromatography and anion-exchange chromatography. One isoenzyme was composed of M(r)-24,800 subunits, and two isoenzymes had subunits of M(r) 23,900. The M(r)-23,900 subunits showed immunological identity and were immunologically distinct from the M(r)-24,800 subunits. All three enzymes were active with the substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and had low activity with 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene. A cDNA clone encoding a M(r)-23,900 subunit (LuGST1) was isolated and sequenced. The sequence has close similarities (> 81%) to that of GSTs from the fruitfly Drosophila melanogaster and Musca domestica (housefly). The deduced amino acid sequence of the Lu GST1 subunit showed no significant similarity to that of the mammalian GSTs to the Alpha, Mu and Pi classes, but shows some similarity (33%) over the first 100 residues with the rat subunit 12 Theta-class GST. Southern blots of genomic DNA hybridized with the LuGST1 cDNA identified many hybridizing fragments. Taken together, these data indicated that the L. cuprina genome contains multiple glutathione S-transferase genes.
The capacity of rat liver mitochondria to reduce 23 non-protein disulphides to their thiols has been examined. The best reduced include the three intermolecular disulphides, bis(2-aminoethyl)disulphide (cystamine, basic), bis(2-hydroxyethyl)disulphide (HED, neutral and bis(3-carboxypropyl)disulphide (CPD, acidic). Their behaviour has been compared. In each case the thiol formed is found in highest concentration in the mitochondrial matrix. The three disulphides require an NAD-reducing substrate and respond similarly to changes in the initial disulphide concentration, pH of the medium and inhibitors. The most effective of these are N-ethylmaleimide, phenylarsenoxide (shown to be a potent swelling agent), triethyltin and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). The fall in GSH induced by the latter correlates with the extent of inhibition. An uncoupler (carbonylcyanide-m-chlorophenylhydrazone, CCCP) inhibits reduction of HED and CPD but not that of cystamine. After lysis of mitochondria there is no significant reduction even in the presence of NADH or NADPH. Reduction is observed in sonicates if lipoamide is added with NADH but this reaction is insensitive to CDNB and CPD is not reduced. Also neither cystamine nor HED supports pyruvate dehydrogenation. There is also reduction if GSH and glutathione reductase are added with NADPH. All three disulphides are reduced to some extent but the rates for HED and especially CPD are inadequate to account for the rates in intact mitochondria.
Abstract The human glutathione S-transferase cDNAs encoding subunits 1 and 2 contain intrinsic ribosome-binding sites in their 5'-untranslated regions for direct expression in Escherichia coli. We show that functional human GSH S-transferases 1-1 and 2-2 are synthesized from lambda gt11 cDNA clones lambda GTH1 and lambda GTH2 in phage lysates of E. coli Y1090, in lysogens of E. coli Y1089, and from the plasmid expression constructs in pKK223-3. The E. coli-expressed human GHS S-transferases 1-1 and 2-2 do not have blocked N termini in contrast to those directly purified from human livers. These two isozymes, with 11 amino acid substitutions between them, are similar in their Km values for GSH and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and Kcat values for this conjugation reaction. The human GSH S-transferase 2-2, however, is a more active GSH peroxidase than transferase 1-1 toward cumene hydroperoxide and t-butyl hydroperoxide. Our results indicate that different members of a GSH S-transferase gene family with limited amino acid substitutions have different with limited amino acid substitutions have different but overlapping substrate specificities. We propose that accumulation of single amino acid replacements may be an important mechanism for generating diversity in GSH S-transferases with various xenobiotic substrates. In situ chromosomal hybridization results show that the GSH transferase Ha genes are located in the region of 6p12.
Abstract Pretreatment of experimental animals with cyclophosphamide (CY) markedly potentiates the acquisition of T-cell-mediated immunity to an antigen given 1 to 4 days later. We have examined the primary induction of delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) and antibody to keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH) and DTH to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB) in 22 patients receiving CY for metastatic cancer, 12 with melanoma and 10 with colorectal carcinoma. Sixteen days before CY, one-half of the patients received KLH and one-half received DNCB; 3 days after CY, they received KLH or DNCB, whichever they had not received initially. Blood was drawn for antibody titer and/or skin testing was performed 14 days after administration of antigen. For each antigen, the responses of pre-CY patients were compared with those of post-CY patients. We found that pretreatment of patients with CY significantly augmented the development of DTH to KLH. The DTH reactions of the group of patients given KLH 3 days after CY were significantly greater than those of the group of patients given KLH without CY (medians: KLH alone, 0; KLH after CY, 18 mm; p = 0.025). With CY pretreatment, 11 of 11 patients developed a DTH response of greater than 5 mm compared with 4 of 11 patients without CY ( p = 0.002). No patient developed DTH to DNCB when it was given without CY whereas 3 of 11 patients developed DTH when DNCB was given 3 days after CY ( p = 0.082). CY pretreatment neither augmented nor suppressed the antibody response to KLH; the proportion of patients with antibody 14 days after antigen was 2 of 11 without CY and 4 of 11 with CY pretreatment ( p = 0.24). It appears that CY pretreatment resulted in the development of DTH responses in otherwise unreactive patients. Reversal of the T-cell anergy of advanced cancer could lead to augmentation of the immune response to tumor-associated antigens.
Activities of trout liver microsomal glutathione S-transferase (GST) and a series of cytosolic glutathione-dependent detoxifying enzymes were determined after a single intraperitoneal treatment with phenobarbital, 2,2-bis (p-chlorophenyl)-1,1-dichloroethane (p,p{prime}-DDE), 2,3-dimethoxynaphthoquinone (NQ), or 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD). This study aimed to find xenobiotic-specific parameters applicable as biochemical markers of the impacts of the prototypal xenobiotics. The effects of xenobiotics on cytosolic GST activities were substrate dependent. The rate of conjugation of p-nitrobenzyl chloride was significantly induced by higher doses of p,p{prime}-DDE or NQ. The conjugation of ethacrynic acid was enhanced by phenobarbital, p,p{prime}-DDE, and NQ. The GST activity against 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)propane was induced only by phenobarbital and by lower doses of p,p{prime}-DDE. The cytosolic GST activity, measured with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as a substrate, was only weakly increased by phenobarbital, TCDD, higher doses of p,p{prime}-DDE, or by NQ at the lowest dose of 1 mg/kg. Although the latter activity is frequently used as a biomarker in ecotoxicology, various factors (including its weak inducibility) indicate that this biochemical parameter is probably not a suitable indicator of contamination in fish. Similarly, cytosolic glutathione peroxidase was not affected by the prototypal xenobiotics and appeared to be an unsuitable bioindicator of oxidative impacts of the tested compounds. On the other hand,more » microsomal GST activity was nonspecifically increased by phenobarbital, NQ, TCDD, and high doses of p,p{prime}-DDE. Glutathione reductase, another potential biomarker of oxidative stress, was induced by phenobarbital, NQ, and, to a lesser extent, p,p{prime}-DDE; therefore it appeared to be a less sensitive indicator to the exposure to prototypal xenobiotics than the microsomal GST.« less
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are a family of multifunctional proteins playing important roles in detoxification of harmful physiological and xenobiotic compounds in organisms. In our study, a gene encoding a GST from Proteus mirabilis strain V7, gst Pm -4, was cloned and conditionally expressed in Escherichia coli strain BL21(DE3). The purified Gst Pm -4 protein, with an estimated molecular mass of approximately 23 kDa, was able to conjugate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and bind to the GSH-affinity matrix. Real-time reverse transcriptase PCR suggested that mRNA level of gst Pm -4 was increased in the presence of CdCl 2 , CuCl 2 , HgCl 2 and PbCl 2 , respectively. Correspondingly, overexpression of gst Pm -4 in the genetically engineered bacterium Top10/pLacpGst exhibited higher heavy metal resistance compared to the control Top10/pLacP3. Another genetically engineered bacterium Top10/pBATGst, in which the DNA encoding Gst Pm -4 protein was fused with the DNA encoding Pfa1-based auto surface display system, was built. Top10/pBATGst could constitutively express the chimeric Gst Pm -4 and anchor it onto the cell surface subsequently. Almost 100% of the Hg 2+ within the range of 0.1-100 nM was adsorbed by Top10/pBATGst, and 80% of the bounded Hg 2+ could be desorbed from bacterial cells when pH was adjusted to 6.0. Thus, Top10/pBATGst can be potentially used for efficient treatment of Hg 2+ -contaminated aquatic environment.
Bacterial GSTs are mainly referred as four different classes: beta, chi, theta and zeta [1, 2, 4, 6, 7] . Beta class of cytoplasmic GSTs (cGSTs), characterized by the presence of a cysteine residue at the GSH site, is able to conjugate the model substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and bind to the GSH-affinity matrix [6] . Theta class of GSTs in bacteria exhibits high amino acid sequence similarity to eukaryotic theta class GSTs, which were lack of activity with CDNB and inability to bind to GSH affinity matrices [8] . Zeta class is characterized by the distinctive two serine and a cysteine residues in the GSH site [9] [10] [11] [12] . Chi class of bacterial GSTs is completely lack cysteines, however, it was argued against its incorporation into the beta class [7] . In Proteus mirabilis, three forms of GSTs had been explored [13] . P. mirabilis GST B1-1, the first cGST of beta class, was extensively studied relating to its structure and function [6, [14] [15] [16] [17] [18] [19] [20] [21] [22] . But little information about the character and function of other forms of GSTs from P. mirabilis was reported.
Glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity. The GST activity was expressed as the amount of enzyme, in units that catalyzes the conjugation of GSH to 1 mmol of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) in 1 min at room temperature in 100 mM potassium phosphate buffer, pH 6.5 (Habig et al., 1974; Jakoby, 1981) .
Effect of inhibitors on and pH dependence of the export of dinitrophenyl-S-glutathione (DNP-SG), a glutathione S-conjugate formed upon in vivo conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene to glutathione, was studied in intact human erythrocytes. The transport was inhibited by orthovanadate (IC50 = 80 microM) and fluoride (IC50 = 9 nM). Erythrocyte anion exchange (Band 3) protein inhibitors DIDS and SITS did not exert any significant effect on the transport. The transport rate increased with increasing extracellular pH in the range of 6.0-8.0. The Arrhenius activation energy of the process was 72.4 +/- 1.3 kJ/mol. Membrane potential, extracellular sodium/potassium concentration ratio and extracellular osmolality in the range 300-600 mOsm did not influence the export rate.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are principally involved in detoxification. These enzymes can be induced by an increased flux of substrate, such as occurs during pro-oxidative stress or antioxidant deficiency. We tested the hypothesis that the postulated oxidative stress in severe malnutrition would result in induction of GSTs in erythrocytes. Erythrocyte GST activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was measured in 271 malnourished children (22 undernourished; 92 marasmic; 82 kwashiorkor; 75 marasmic-kwashiorkor) and 48 healthy children. GST activity in the malnourished children was significantly higher than the control group (P < 0.01). The GST activity in the four classes of malnutrition did not differ. There was a weak relationship between GST activity and the height deficit, but not with the weight deficit, or the clinical features displayed by the children. The 11 children that died had a higher value than the survivors. There was no change in GST with anthropometric recovery. We conclude that erythrocyte GST has been induced in children with malnutrition. Induction of erythrocyte GST may be the result of exposure of the children to oxidative stress during the months prior to their presentation with severe malnutrition.
Abstract The metabolism of mitozantrone, a chemotherapeutic agent used in the treatment of breast cancer, has been studied in vitro using rat liver subcellular fractions. This compound would appear to be metabolized by two interesting pathways. One involves conjugation with glucuronic acid, catalyzed most effectively by a 3-methylcholanthrene-inducible glucuronosyi transferase. The other pathway appears to be a glutathione conjugation reaction which requires prior metabolism by cytochrome P-450. The reaction with glutathione appears to be enzymatic as 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was a potent inhibitor of this reaction. Liver cytosol did not enhance the microsomal rate of glutathione-conjugate formation, suggesting an important role for the microsomal glutathione transferases in the disposition of this compound. The relationship between these reactions and the mode of action of mitozantrone is discussed.
The role of the hydroxyl group of tyrosine 6 in the catalytic mechanism of isoenzyme 3-3 of rat glutathione S-transferase has been examined by x-ray crystallography and site-specific replacement of the residue with phenylalanine and evaluation of the catalytic properties of the mutant enzyme. This particuar tyrosine residue is conserved in the sequences of all of the cytosolic enzymes and is found, in crystal structures of both isoenzyme 3-3 from the mu-gene class and an isoenzyme from the pi-gene class, to be proximal to the sulfur of glutathione (GSH) or glutathione sulfonate bound at the active site. The 2.2-A structure of the binary complex of isoenzyme 3-3 and GSH indicates that the hydroxyl group of Tyr6 is located 3.2-3.5 A from the sulfur of GSH, well within hydrogen bonding distance. Removal of the hydroxyl group of Tyr6 has essentially no effect on the dissociation constant (22 +/- 3 microM) for GSH. Nevertheless the Y6F mutant exhibits a turnover number which is only about 1% that of the native enzyme when assayed at pH 6.5 with either 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) or 4-phenyl-3-buten-2-one. UV difference spectra of the binary enzyme-GSH complexes suggest that the predominant ionization state of GSH in the active site of the Y6F mutant is the neutral thiol (e.g. EY6F.GSH) which is in contrast to the native enzyme in which the thiol is substantially deprotonated (e.g. E.GS-). Spectrophotometric titration suggests that the pKa of the thiol is 6.9 +/- 0.3 in the E.GSH complex and greater than or equal to 8 in the EY6F.GSH binary complex. In addition, the pH dependence of kcat/KmCDNB reveals that the reactions catalyzed by the native enzyme and the Y6F mutant are dependent on a single ionization in the E.GSH and EY6F.GSH complexes with pKa = 6.2 +/- 0.1 and 7.8 +/- 0.3, respectively. The results suggest that the hydrogen bond between Tyr6 and the enzyme-bound nucleophile helps to lower the pKa of GSH in the binary enzyme-substrate complex.
BACKGROUND/AIM ::: To discover new 5-lipoxygenase (5-LO) inhibitors applicable to inflammation-related skin disease, we identified and examined antiinflammatory properties of a novel 5-LO inhibitor, KR-33749, in vitro and in vivo. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: 5-LO enzyme activity was assayed using insect cell lysates overexpressing rat 5-LO. The leukotriene B(4) (LTB(4)) level was assayed in rat basophilic leukemia (RBL-1) cell line. Mouse ear edema was induced by topical application of arachidonic acid. Atopic dermatitis-like skin lesion was induced by topical application of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB) to NC/Nga mice. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: KR-33749 inhibited 5-LO activity with an IC(50) value of 70.5 +/- 6.0 nmol/l in parallel with LTB(4) inhibition in RBL-1 cells. The compound exhibited a >1,000-fold selectivity against 12-LO and 15-LO. KR-33749 showed in vivo protective effects against arachidonic acid-induced ear edema and DNCB-induced atopic dermatitis-like symptoms in NC/Nga mice. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Our results show that KR-33749, a new 5-LO inhibitor exhibits potent antiinflammatory activities in vitro as well as in vivo.
Cytosolic GSTs (glutathione S-transferases) are a major reserve of high-capacity binding proteins and exhibit ligand-binding properties for a large variety of compounds. In the present study, the binding of two non-substrate anthraquinone dyes VBAR (Vilmafix Blue A-R) and CB3GA (Cibacron Blue 3GA) to maize (Zea mays) GST I was investigated. The results showed that the enzyme was specifically and irreversible inactivated by VBAR with a Kd of 35.5±2.2 μM and a k3 of 0.47 min−1. Proteolytic cleavage of the VBAR-modified enzyme and subsequent separation of peptides gave only one modified peptide. Sequencing of the modified peptide revealed the target site of VBAR reaction to be Lys41. CB3GA binds reversibly to GST I and behaves as a competitive inhibitor towards CDNB (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene) and glutathione. CB3GA binding to GST I is accompanied by a characteristic spectral change in the absorption at positive maximum (670 nm) which exhibited a hyperbolic dependence on dye concentration with a Kd of 12.1±0.5 μM. Site-directed mutagenesis of selected residues (Trp12, Phe35, Lys41, Asn49, Gln53, Ser67 and Ile118) was employed, and the mutated enzymes were assessed for CB3GA binding. These results, together with molecular-modelling studies, established that the ligandin-binding site of GST I is located mainly in the hydrophobic binding site. The ability of VBAR to specifically inactivate GST I was exploited further to demonstrate the specific binding of several plant hormones and flavonoids to GST I. The inactivation of other GST isoenzymes by VBAR was also investigated, and it was concluded that VBAR may have wide applicability as an affinity label for probing structure–function relationships of GST isoenzymes.
Abstract A plant-specific tau class GST gene homolog was successfully cloned from an Oryza sativa cDNA library by PCR using oligonucleotide primers based on the Os GSTU4 (GenBank Accession No. AF309378) sequence. The cDNA was composed of a 720-bp open reading frame encoding 239 amino acids. The deduced amino acid sequence of this gene shared over 65% sequence identity with the sequences of the tau class Ta GST28e45 and Zm GST42. Conversely, the Os GSTU4 sequence showed very low identity to the GST sequences of phi, theta and zeta classes. This gene was expressed in Escherichia coli with the pET vector system, and the gene product was purified to homogeneity using GSH–Sepharose affinity column chromatography. The expressed Os GSTU4 formed a homodimer with subunits of approximately 25.5 kDa. Os GSTU4 displayed very high activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. The activity of the Os GSTU4 was significantly inhibited by S -hexylglutathione and hematin. Plant Os GSTU4 had a unique herbicide specificity and played an important role in the detoxification reaction against fluorodifen and chloroacetanilide herbicides.
Repletion of depleted cellular reduced glutathione (GSH) levels in oxidative stress and exposure to arylating agents is a strategy for the development of antidotes to chemical toxicity. The effect of GSH, reduced glutathione ethyl monoester (GSHEt), and reduced glutathione ethyl diester (GSHEt2) on the cytotoxicity of hydrogen peroxide, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), and menadione to P388D1 macrophages in vitro was investigated. The median toxic concentration TC50 values of the toxicants were hydrogen peroxide 24 +/- 2 mM (N = 19), CDNB 63 +/- 6 microM (N = 18), and menadione 30 +/- 4 microM (N = 22). Reduced glutathione, GSHEt, and GSHEt2 were poor antidotes to hydrogen peroxide toxicity. Indeed, the observed antidote effects were attributed to the nonenzymatic reaction of the GSH derivatives with hydrogen peroxide in the extracellular medium. Reduced glutathione ethyl diester was a more potent antidote of CDNB- and menadione-mediated toxicity than GSHEt and GSH. For cell incubations with the approximate median toxic concentration TC50 values of hydrogen peroxide, CDNB, and menadione, the respective median effective antidote concentration EC50 values were GSHEt 23.8 +/- 4.1 mM (N = 9), 3.6 +/- 0.6 mM (N = 11), and 226 +/- 93 microM (N = 12); and GSHEt2 20.4 +/- 1.9 mM (N = 6), 603 +/- 2 microM (N = 9), and 7.6 +/- 2.3 microM (N = 12). Reduced glutathione ethyl diester was a potent antidote to CDNB- and menadione-induced toxicities but not to hydrogen peroxide-induced toxicity under acute intoxication conditions.
Cell extracts of the filamentous fungus Cunninghamella elegans contain epoxide hydrolase (EC 3.3.2.3), glutathione S-transferase (EC 2.5.1.18) and UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (EC 2.4.1.17) activities. Epoxide hydrolase activity was determined with p-nitrostyrene oxide as substrate and was shown to be associated with the 100 000 g pellet obtained from disrupted mycelia. Glutathione S-transferase activity was demonstrated with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and p-nitrobenzyl chloride as substrates. The presence of two or more glutathione S-transferase activities was indicated by different activity ratios for the two substrates in different extracts, and by distinct thermal denaturation curves. UDP-glucuronosyltransferase activity with 3-hydroxybenzo[a]pyrene as substrate was found only with the non-sedimentable fraction prepared from ruptured mycelia.
Kinetics of various kinds of nucleophilic substitution were studied in ethanol and in [hydroxy-2H1]ethanol in order to evaluate the rate ratios due to pure medium effects. The values of kEtOD/kEtOH were 1·84 and 1·83 for substitution of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and of 1-chloro-2,2-di-(p-nitrophenyl)ethylene, respectively, by ethoxide ion at 25°; 1·30 for substitution of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene by pyridine at 90°; 1·3–1·4 for substitution, and 1·7–1·8 for elimination, in the concurrent reactions of n-butyl chloride with ethoxide ion at 60–80°.
Zebrafish has in recent years emerged as a popular vertebrate model for use in pharmacological and toxicological studies. While there have been sporadic studies on the zebrafish glutathione S-transferases (GSTs), the zebrafish GST gene superfamily still awaits to be fully elucidated. We report here the identification of 15 zebrafish cytosolic GST genes in NCBI GenBank database and the expression, purification, and enzymatic characterization of the zebrafish cytosolic GST Pi-1 (GSTP1). The cDNA encoding the zebrafish GSTP1 was cloned from a 3-month-old female zebrafish, expressed in Eschelichia coli host cells, and purified. Purified GSTP1 displayed glutathione-conjugating activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as a representative substrate. The enzymatic characteristics of the zebrafish GSTP1, including pH-dependency, effects of metal cations, and kinetic parameters, were studied. Moreover, the expression of zebrafish GSTP1 at different developmental stages during embryogenesis, throughout larval development, onto maturity was examined.
St John’s Wort (SJW) extracts are herbal products which are available without prescription in most countries and widely used in the treatment of mild to moderate depression. Since it is a herbal product and available without prescription, use of SJW is common among pregnant and/or lactating woman. The principal of the study was to clarify the effects of hypericin, one of the components of SJW, on glutathione S-transferase-pi (GST-pi) purified from human placenta. The K m values of GST-pi were 0.21 ± 0.03 mM for glutathione (GSH) and 2.29 ± 0.54 mM for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). At fixed [GSH], the V m value calculated was about 3 times higher than the conditions in which [CDNB] was fixed; 201 ± 30 U/mg protein versus 74 ± 3 U/mg protein. At constant substrate concentrations (1 mM), an average IC 50 value of 0.70 ± 0.02 μM was obtained. Hypericin inhibited GST-pi competitively with respect to both substrates. When GSH was the varied substrate a K i value of 0.31 ± 0.05 μM was found; when CDNB was the varied substrate, a K i value of 0.85 ± 0.02 μM was obtained. On the basis of these data considering transplacental transfer of hypericin and immature hepatic clearance of the baby, using this herbal product may cause abnormalites due to the inhibition of one of the most important placental detoxification enzymes, GST-pi.
Previously, we found an unclassified glutathione S-transferase 2 (bmGSTu2) in the silkworm Bombyx mori that conjugates glutathione to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and also metabolises diazinon, an organophosphate insecticide. Here, we provide a structural and genome-editing characterisation of the diazinon-metabolising glutathione S-transferase in B. mori. The structure of bmGSTu2 was determined at 1.68 Å by X-ray crystallography. Mutation of putative amino acid residues in the substrate-binding site showed that Pro13, Tyr107, Ile118, Phe119, and Phe211 are crucial for enzymatic function. bmGSTu2 gene disruption resulted in a decrease in median lethal dose values to an organophosphate insecticide and a decrease in acetylcholine levels in silkworms. Taken together, these results indicate that bmGSTu2 could metabolise an organophosphate insecticide. Thus, this study provides insights into the physiological role of bmGSTu2 in silkworms, detoxification of organophosphate insecticides, and drug targets for the development of a novel insecticide.
Abstract Molluscs and especially bivalves are able to accumulate dinoflagelates, diatoms and cyanobacteria toxins, and, being vectors for these toxins, transfer them along food chains. The data obtained from laboratory experiments showed that bivalve molluscs are resistant to cyanobacteria toxins. In this work, we wanted to test if Mytilus galloprovincialis organs react to microcystins and other cyanobacteria compounds by inducing or decreasing its GST activity. Acclimated mussels M. galloprovincialis were exposed to the toxic Microcystis aeruginosa M13 strain. Exposure of mussels to toxins was done in three ways: living Microcystis cells, crude Microcystis extracts and pure toxins. The measurement of soluble and microsomal GST activity in the different mussel organs was done by using the substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and 2,4-dichloro-1-nitrobenzene (DCNB). Analysis of the GST activity of the control mussels using CDNB as a substrate showed that cytosolic activity is much more significant than microsomal. Intact M. aeruginosa cells did not induce any significant response from the mussels, showing that these animals are quite resistant to the cyanobacteria if they are intact. On the other hand, cell extracts caused an important effect in the gut, in the gills and in the labial palps, although in different ways. There was an increase in GST activity in the gut and gills of mussels exposed to Microcystis extracts, showing a response of this detoxication pathway, but in the labial palps a severe reduction in GST activity occurred. Pure MC LR+YR induced an increase in GST activity in all organs but the labial palps. The results showed that other substances apart from microcystins may cause stress to mussels and affect detoxication enzymes such as GST.
Abstract Acetonitrile (AN) and seven of its halogenated derivatives known to be water disinfectant by-products were evaluated for their action on hepatic cytosolic glutathione S -transferase (GST) activity using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrate. Increasing concentrations of acetonitrile, monofluoroacetonitrile (MFAN), monochloroacetonitrile (MCAN), and monobromoacetonitrile (MBAN) up to 10 m m failed to produce 50% inhibition of the activity of GST enzyme. However, dichloroacetonitrile (DCAN), trichloroacetonitrile (TCAN), dibromoacetonitrile (DBAN), and monoiodoacetonitrile (MIAN) were potent inhibitors with I50 values of 2.49, 0.34, 0.82, and 4.44 m m , respectively. At concentrations equivalent to their I50, MIAN, DCAN, and DBAN decrease both apparent K m and V max of the enzyme activity toward glutathione (GSH) to 20–50% of control. TCAN significantly increases both apparent K m and V max for GSH to 650 and 120% of control values, respectively. The inhibitory effect of haloacetonitriles (HAN) on hepatic GST activity toward CDNB was found to be of a mixed type. The inhibitory effect of DCAN, DBAN, and TCAN on the hepatic GST activity was found to be reversible and the activity was completely recovered after dialysis of the inhibited enzyme. MIAN, however, inhibited GST activity in an irreversible manner. Haloacetonitriles' induced inhibition of hepatic GST activity in vitro is consistent with that observed in vivo . The data presented in this study show that haloacetonitriles induced reversible inhibition of hepatic GST activities, and this effect may lead to decreased detoxification of other electrophilic chemicals.
The potential to metabolize endogenous and exogenous substances may influence breast cancer development and tumor growth. Therefore we investigated GST activity and the protein expression of glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) isoenzymes known to be involved in the metabolism of endogenous and exogenous carcinogens in breast cancer tissue to obtain new information on their possible role in tumor progression. The interindividual variation in the conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and of 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy) propane (EPNP) with glutathione (GSH) by cytosolic glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) were investigated in human breast matched normal and tumor samples. The GSTA, GSTM, GSTP and GSTT isoenzymes from the crude extracts of matched breast normal and tumor tissues in terms of their immunological properties using western blotting were compared. In most of the samples, the GST activities were higher in the tumor than in the normal cytosolic fractions against both CDNB and EPNP. In the western blotting analysis, it was proved statistically that in normal and tumor epithelial cells, there was difference between GST pi and theta isoenzymes expressions (p0.05). In normal epithelium there was a stronger GST theta expression than in invasive tumor tissues (p=0.013). However, the stronger GST pi expression was observed in tumor epithelium than in normal epithelium in human breast cancers (p=0.000). We found the GSTP protein level and GST activities were higher in the breast tumor than in the normal cytosolic fractions against both CDNB and EPNP, thus implicating a certain biological importance.
Total GSH (GSHϩglutathione disulfide [GSSG]), 17 glutathione peroxidase (GPx), 18 and glutathione reductase (GR) 19 activities were measured as previously described. The GR activity in samples was compared with that of GR from Bakers Yeast (Sigma), and the specific activity was expressed as units per milligram protein, in which 1 U will reduce 1.0 mol GSSG per minute at pH 7.6 and 25°C. Glutathione-S-transferase (GST) activity was measured by using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate. 20 The GSH/GSSG ratio was measured by high-performance liquid chromatography as in Moellering et al. 19 
Cytosolic GSTs (glutathione S-transferases) are a major reserve of high-capacity binding proteins and exhibit ligand-binding properties for a large variety of compounds. In the present study, the binding of two non-substrate anthraquinone dyes VBAR (Vilmafix Blue A-R) and CB3GA (Cibacron Blue 3GA) to maize (Zea mays) GST I was investigated. The results showed that the enzyme was specifically and irreversible inactivated by VBAR with a K d of 35.5 + − 2.2 µM and a k 3 of 0.47 min −1 . Proteolytic cleavage of the VBAR-modified enzyme and subsequent separation of peptides gave only one modified peptide. Sequencing of the modified peptide revealed the target site of VBAR reaction to be Lys 41 . CB3GA binds reversibly to GST I and behaves as a competitive inhibitor towards CDNB (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene) and glutathione. CB3GA binding to GST I is accompanied by a characteristic spectral change in the absorption at positive maximum (670 nm) which exhibited a hyperbolic dependence on dye con- ) was employed, and the mutated enzymes were assessed for CB3GA binding. These results, together with molecularmodelling studies, established that the ligandin-binding site of GST I is located mainly in the hydrophobic binding site. The ability of VBAR to specifically inactivate GST I was exploited further to demonstrate the specific binding of several plant hormones and flavonoids to GST I. The inactivation of other GST isoenzymes by VBAR was also investigated, and it was concluded that VBAR may have wide applicability as an affinity label for probing structure-function relationships of GST isoenzymes.
Previously, we found an unclassified glutathione S-transferase 2 (bmGSTu2) in the silkworm Bombyx mori that conjugates glutathione to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and also metabolises diazinon, an organophosphate insecticide. Here, we provide a structural and genome-editing characterisation of the diazinon-metabolising glutathione S-transferase in B. mori. The structure of bmGSTu2 was determined at 1.68 Å by X-ray crystallography. Mutation of putative amino acid residues in the substrate-binding site showed that Pro13, Tyr107, Ile118, Phe119, and Phe211 are crucial for enzymatic function. bmGSTu2 gene disruption resulted in a decrease in median lethal dose values to an organophosphate insecticide and a decrease in acetylcholine levels in silkworms. Taken together, these results indicate that bmGSTu2 could metabolise an organophosphate insecticide. Thus, this study provides insights into the physiological role of bmGSTu2 in silkworms, detoxification of organophosphate insecticides, and drug targets for the development of a novel insecticide.
The GST omega class (GSTO) contains two expressed genes GSTO1 (12.5 kb) and GSTO2 (24.5 kb) beside a pseudo gene GSTO3p. GSTO1 and GSTO2 are 12.5 and 24.5 kb, respectively, and lie 7.5 kb on chromosome 10q25.1 (Polimantia et al., 2011) . Members of this family do not display activity with "classical" GST substrates such as 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, dichloromethane, or ethacrynic acid, but they do exhibit several enzymatic characteristics of glutaredoxins (Board et al., 2000 , Whitbread et al., 2003 . Although most GSTs have a serine or tyrosine residue at the active site, the GSTOs have cysteine, as well as a 19-amino acid extension at the N terminus that is not present in other cytosolic GSTs (Board et al., 2000) . The genes encoding GSTO1 and GSTO2 map to chromosome 10 and are separated by approximately 1.5 kb (Whitbread et al., 2003) . Both GSTO1 and GSTO2 catalyze the reduction of monomethyl arsenate from an oxidation state of +V to +III (Schmuck et al., 2005 , Mukherjee et al., 2006 . GSTO1 and GSTO2 have been identified in many organisms, including humans, and have poor activity with common GST substrates (Whitbread et al., 2003 , Pongstaporn et al., 2008 . GSTO1 plays a role in apoptosis and is a potential reservoir of intracellular glutathione (GSH), which protects against cellular oxidative stress (Ada et al., 2013) . The gene polymorphisms of GSTO1 have been associated with the risk of human cancers, such as hepatocellular carcinoma, cholangiocarcinoma, and breast cancer (Marahatta et al., 2006) . While GSTO2 polymorphism has been reported in ovarian cancer (Pongstaporn et al., 2006) . Genetic studies of common complex diseases have focused on identifying risk genes as targets for developing new treatments and improved diagnoses. This approach led to the identification of several genes (Li et al., 2003) . Genetic variation in GSTs has been reported to represent a risk factor for a variety of cancers (Strange et al., 2001) .
The interindividual variation in the conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and of 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy) propane (EPNP) with glutathione (GSH) by cytosolic glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) were investigated in human breast matched normal and tumor samples. The GSTA, GSTM, GSTP and GSTT isoenzymes from the crude extracts of matched breast normal and tumor tissues in terms of their immunological properties using western blotting were compared.
The relationships between smoking and the expression of glutathione S-transferase (GST * ) isozymes GSTM1-1, GSTM3-3, GSTP1-1 and GSTA1-1/2-2 (GSTA1/2), or between smoking and activities of epoxide hydrolase (EH) and aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase (AHH) were investigated in lung samples from 27 patients with lung cancer and 11 control patients by immunoblot analysis and enzyme assays. Determination of genotypes in blood leucocyte DNA showed that possession of the μ-class GSTM1 gene was closely related to the expression of GSTM1-1 and GSTM3-3 enzymes in lung cytosol: patients with the GSTM1 null genotype had no detectable GSTM1 protein and less GSTM3 protein than patients with the GSTM1 gene (P<0.001). Absence of the GSTM1 gene did not affect the content of π-class GSTP1-1 or α-class GSTA1/2. GST activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was lower (P<0.01) in patients lacking the GSTM1 gene than in those expressing GSTM1; in general, patients with a low GSTM3-3, GSTP1-1 or GSTA1/2 content also had significantly less overall GST activity. The pulmonary content of GSTP1-1 was greater in cancer than in non-cancer patients (P<0.05), Smoking did not influence the levels of GST isozymes or the EH activity. In contrast, the AHH activity was significantly (P<0.01) increased by smoking. Neither AHH nor EH showed a correlation with GSTM1 polymorphism. Our data support the idea that in smokers who lack the GSTM1 gene, activation of carcinogens in tobacco smoke (e.g. benzo[a]pyrene) is increased, while the efficacy of detoxification is limited both qualitatively (absence of GSTM1-1 enzyme and low expression of GSTM3-3 enzyme) and quantitatively (low overall GST activity). This imbalance in the metabolism of carcinogens may explain the increased susceptibility to lung cancer reported in smokers with the GSTM1 null genotype
In the absence of any added base in ionic liquids [Bmim][BF4], benzotriazole replaces the halogen atom of an a-halogenated ketone or a-halogenated carboxylic ester to give the corresponding N-1-substituted benzotriazole as the only isomer, and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene reacted similarly with benzotriazole to afford the N-1-substituted benzotriazole in a good yield. Alkyl halides reacted regioselectively to afford the N-1-alkylbenzotriazole in ratios of more than 15 to 1 over the N-2-isomer.
An experiment was conducted to study the effects of the coplanar non-ortho-chlorinated congener 3,3′,4,4′,5-pentachlorobiphenyl (PCB-126) in rats exposed during fetal development and postnatal suckling period. Two groups of eight dams were administered by gavage six doses of 10 and 20 μg/kg body weight of PCB-126 dissolved in corn oil every second day from days 9 to 19 of gestation. The corresponding control rats were treated with corn oil only. The physical development of the offspring was observed. From age 5 to 18 weeks, 12 randomly selected pups from each group were tested daily for visual discrimination with successively more demanding tasks in Skinner boxes. The effects of PCB-126 on hepatic xenobiotic metabolizing enzyme activities and the concentrations of PCB in the liver and brain were investigated in samples from pups of different age and from their mothers. The litter size, the body weights, and the survival of the exposed sucklings were reduced, and the onset of spontaneous movement and neuromuscular maturation were delayed, whereas the development of reflexes was not affected, as compared to controls The body weight was still reduced in a dose-related manner up to 18 weeks postpartum. Also, the postpartum body weight of the PCB-exposed mothers was reduced as compared to controls, but the difference disappeared at weaning. The hepatic enzyme activities of cytochrome P450 1A1 examined by ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase (EROD) and glutathione S-transferase (GST) toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) were increased in both the exposed pups and their mothers, and the relative liver weight was increased in the exposed pups. The behavior training in Skinner boxes did not reveal PCB effects on the learning performance or the activity level Hepatic PCB-126 residues were detected in samples collected throughout the experiment, whereas no detectable concentration was found in the brain We conclude that exposure of this PCB congener in utero and through lactation showed fetotoxic effects, delayed physical maturation, and induced liver xenobiotic metabolizing enzymes without causing neurobehavioral effects
Murine mGSTA4-4 is a glutathione S-transferase with high activity and specificity for products of lipid peroxidation, including the cytotoxic 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE). Physiological relevance of this enzyme in the defense against effects of oxidative stress can be inferred from the above biochemical properties, and has been also directly demonstrated by us in vivo. The identification of residues responsible for the high activity toward 4-HNE is facilitated by the availability of X-ray crystal structures of mGSTA4-4 and of hGSTA1-1, a structurally related enzyme which lacks activity for 4-HNE. Residues likely to be involved in 4-HNE recognition were identified by molecular modeling. One such residue, M104, was mutated to E104, as present in hGSTA1-1. The resulting M104E mutant had unchanged catalytic properties toward the model substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. However, the Km of mGSTA4-4(M104E) for 4-HNE was increased more than sevenfold, while the Vmax for that substrate remained essentially unchanged. We conclude that M104 codetermines the recognition and binding of 4-HNE to the active center of mGSTA4-4.
The soluble S-crystallin constitutes the major lens protein in cephalopods. The primary amino acid sequence of S-crystallin shows an overall 41% identity with the digestive gland sigma-class glutathione transferase (GST) of cephalopod. However, the lens S-crystallin fails to bind to the S-hexylglutathione affinity column and shows very little GST activity in the nucleophilic aromatic substitution reaction between GSH and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. When compared with other classes of GST, the S-crystallin has an 11-amino acid residues insertion between the conserved alpha4 and alpha5 helices. Based on the crystal structure of squid sigma-class GST, a tertiary structure model for the octopus lens S-crystallin is constructed. The modeled S-crystallin structure has an overall topology similar to the squid sigma-class GST, albeit with longer alpha4 and alpha5 helical chains, corresponding to the long insertion. This insertion, however, makes the active center region of S-crystallin to be in a more closed conformation than the sigma-class GST. The active center region of S-crystallin is even more shielded and buried after dimerization, which may explain for the failure of S-crystallin to bind to the immobilized-glutathione in affinity chromatography. In the active site region, the electrostatic potential surface calculated from the modeled structure is quite different from that of squid GST. The positively charged environment, which contributes to stabilize the negatively charged Meisenheimer complex, is altered in S-crystallin probably because of mutation of Asn99 in GST to Asp101 in S-crystallin. Furthermore, the important Phe106 in authentic GST is changed to His108 in S-crystallin. Combining the topological differences as revealed by computer graphics and sequence variation at these structurally relevant residues provide strong structural evidences to account for the much decreased GST activity of S-crystallin as compared with the authentic GST of the digestive gland.
Selective removal of intracellular glutathione (GSH) and inhibition of the GSH-dependent peroxidase (GSH-Px) by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was used to evaluate the role of GSH and GSH-Px in arachidonic acid (AA) metabolism in human platelets. Although total conversion of AA through the lipoxygenase pathway is lowered by GSH depletion, significant 12-HETE formation was observed suggesting that GSH and GSH-Px are not required for the generation of 12-HETE in human platelets. Prolonged treatment of platelets with CDNB (2 h) completely destroyed GSH-Px activity creating a model in which the effects of GSH alone could be determined. Platelet homogenates replenished with GSH, but lacking GSH-Px activity converted significantly higher amounts of AA to 12-HPETE and 12-HETE than control. Platelet cytosolic metabolism of 15-HPETE to 15-HETE decreased after CDNB, while the membrane metabolism remained similar to control due to high GSH-independent peroxidase activity associated with the membranes. These results indicate that GSH and GSH-Px function to enhance lipoxygenase activity, rather than catalyse the reduction of 12-HPETE to 12-HETE.
1. The circadian variation in glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity was studied in the hepatic cytosolic fraction of the male and female mouse. A circadian variation in GST activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was observed in the male, the activity being higher in the light phase (07:00-19:00h) than in the dark phase (19:00-07:00h) during a day under normal lighting conditions. 2. The circadian variation was only existed from June to October. The difference between the lowest activity (at 01:00h) and the highest activity (at 13:00h) was maximum in August. 3. In both the normal and reversed light dark cycle (lights on 07:00 and 19:00h, respectively), reduced glutathione (GSH) content was lowest in the middle of the light period and highest in the middle of the dark period and GST activity toward 1,2-epoxy-3- (p-nitrophenoxy)propane (EPNP) exhibited opposite peaks and troughs. GST activities toward CDNB and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB) during the normal lighting schedule was higher a...
Abstract The charge-transfer complexes of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene with donors such as p -dichlorobenzene, p -chloroaniline and naphthalene were prepared by adding the acceptor to the molten donor and then cooling the mass to 15°C. The NQR frequencies of these complexes were measured at room temperature. The observed frequency shift, Δγ, was positive with respect to the acceptors and donors having a quadrupole nucleus. The frequency shift was used to calculate the ionicity of the CCl bond in the donor and acceptor molecules participating in the formation of the complexes.
Perchloroethene (Per) is a widely used industrial solvent and common environmental contaminant. In rats, long-term inhalation of Per is known to cause a small increase in the incidence of renal tubule cell tumors in males only; renal toxicity is seen in female rats and in both sexes of mice after prolonged Per exposure. The renal toxicity of Per is likely mediated by a glutathione-dependent bioactivation reaction. Glutathione S-transferase mediated formation of S-(1,2,2-trichlorovinyl)glutathione is the first step in a sequence of reactions finally resulting in the formation of reactive intermediates in the kidney. In this study, we compared the enzymatic rates of formation of S-(1,2,2-trichlorovinyl)glutathione in liver and kidney subcellular fractions from rats, mice, and from both sexes of humans (n = 11). In microsomal fractions from the liver and kidney of all three species, enzymatic formation of S-(1,2,2-trichlorovinyl)glutathione from Per could not be observed. S-(1,2,2-Trichlorovinyl)glutathione formation (the structure was confirmed by electrospray mass spectrometry) was observed in liver cytosol from both male and female rats and mice. However, the rates of S-(1,2,2-trichlorovinyl)glutathione formation in liver cytosol from male rats (84.5+/-12 pmol/mg per min) were approximately four times higher than from female rats (19.5+/-8 pmol/mg per min) and from both sexes of mice (27.9+/-6 and 26.0+/-4 pmol/mg per min). Low rates of S-(1,2,2-trichlorovinyl)glutathione formation were also seen in kidney cytosol from mice (12+/-6 pmol/mg per min), but not from rats. In human liver subcellular fractions, enzymatic formation of S-(1,2,2-trichlorovinyl)glutathione could not be detected. The human liver cytosolic fractions, however, exhibited glutathione S-transferase activity (as determined using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and hexachlorobutadiene as marker substrates) in the same order of magnitude as rat and mouse liver cytosol. In contrast to other marker activities for glutathione S-transferases, the ability of all human liver cytosol samples to catalyze the glutathione conjugation of 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene was three orders of magnitude lower compared to rat and mouse liver cytosol. 1,2-Dichloro-4-nitrobenzene conjugation was also four times higher in liver cytosol from male rats compared to female rats. The results suggest that the ability of the human liver to catalyze the formation of S-(1,2,2-trichlorovinyl)glutathione from Per is at least two orders of magnitude lower than that of rat liver, and that sex-specific differences in the extent of hepatic conjugation of Per with glutathione, which may be relevant for nephrotoxicity, occur in rats.
A new unsymmetrical diamine monomer, 2,4-diaminophenyl [4′-(2′′,6′′-diphenyl-4′′-pyridyl)phenyl]ether, was successfully synthesized by nucleophilic substitution of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene with 4-(2′,6′-diphenyl-4′-pyridyl) phenol. The diamine monomer was characterized by FTIR, 1H and 13C NMR, and elemental analysis techniques and used for the preparation of novel polyimides (PIs) by reaction with commercially available tetracarboxylic dianhydrides such as pyromellitic dianhydride, 3,3′,4,4′-benzophenone tetracarboxylic dianhydride, and bicyclo[2.2.2]-oct-7-ene-2,3,5,6-tetracarboxylic dianhydride. These PIs with inherent viscosities ranged from 0.43 to 0.48 dL/g were readily soluble in many organic solvents and afforded tough and flexible films by solution casting. These polymers exhibited Tgs between 237 and 294°C, and 10% weight loss temperatures in excess of 500°C with up to 56% char yield at 600°C in air. Their maximum fluorescence emission in dilute (0.2 g/dL) NMP solution appeared at 450 nm. © 2010 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Appl Polym Sci, 2010
Abstract 1. The epimastigotes of Trypanosoma cruzi catalyze in vivo and in vitro the conjugation of styrene oxide and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene at substantial rates. 2. Conjugation of drugs possessing an electrophilic grouping to the thiol group of glutathione may represent an important detoxication factor in the resistance of the parasite to known antiprotozoal agents.
The substituted 1,2-dithiole-3-thione oltipraz [5-(2-pyrazinyl)-4-methyl-1,2-dithiole-3-thione] protects against the acute and chronic toxicities of many xenobiotics, including aflatoxin B1, in rodents. These protective effects are mediated, in part, through elevation of glutathione S-transferase (GST) activities. Because studies by Coles et al. [Carcinogenesis (Lond.), 6: 693-697, 1985] suggested that the detoxication of aflatoxin through conjugation with glutathione is principally catalyzed by GST homodimer YaYa, we have investigated the regulation of the gene coding for the Ya subunit in the liver of F344 rats following dietary administration of oltipraz. Overall GST activity, as measured by conjugation with 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene or 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, as well as the levels of GST Ya protein, was elevated 1.5-fold by 24 h and maximally (2.7- to 3.5-fold) and persistently after 5 days on a purified diet supplemented with 0.075% oltipraz. Steady state mRNA levels for GST subunit Ya, as quantified by slot blot analysis using rat liver GST complementary DNA clone pGTB38, were also elevated by 24 h, with a maximal elevation of 3-fold observed at 3 days. However, mRNA levels decreased thereafter, despite continued feeding of oltipraz. Northern blot analyses demonstrated that oltipraz did not alter the size of GST mRNA. Transcriptional activity of the GST Ya gene, as determined by nuclear run-off analysis, was increased 2-fold after 24-h feeding of oltipraz, was maximally induced 2.4-fold at 3 days, and returned to near control levels at 7 days, despite sustained feeding of oltipraz. Modulation of GST activity by oltipraz was not accompanied by changes in the methylation pattern at internal sites of the GST Ya gene. These results show that the initial induction of hepatic GST activity during oltipraz exposure correlates with changes in steady state levels of GST mRNA and rates of GST gene transcription; however, the continued elevation of GST enzymatic activities and GST Ya protein levels in the face of declining GST Ya mRNA levels and transcription rates suggests that additional mechanisms may be involved in regulating GST Ya expression by oltipraz.
The binding of glutathione (GSH) to the tyrosine 7 to phenylalanine mutant of Schistosoma japonicum glutathione S-transferase (SjGST-Y7F) has been studied by isothermal titration calorimetry (ITC). At pH 6.5 and 25 degrees C this mutant shows a higher affinity for glutathione than wild type enzyme despite an almost complete loss of activity in the presence of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as second substrate. The enthalpy change upon binding of GSH is more negative for the mutant than for the wild type GST (SjGST). Changes in accessible solvent areas (ASA) have been calculated based on enthalpy and heat capacity changes. ASA values indicated the burial of apolar surfaces of protein and ligand upon binding. A more negative DeltaC(p) value has been obtained for the mutant enzyme, suggesting a more hydrophobic interaction, as may be expected from the change of a tyrosine residue to phenylalanine.
Using a rat liver cytosol source of enzyme trialkyl phosphorothioates have been shown to be substrates of glutathione S-transferases. Using OSS-trimethyl phosphorodithioate (OSS-Me(O] and OOS-trimethyl phosphorothioate (OOS-Me(O] the methyl transferred to the sulphydryl of glutathione is that attached to phosphorus via an oxygen atom. Fractionation of liver cytosol has shown that although the bulk activity is due to the three isozymes (1-1; 3-4; 1.2), OSS-Me(O) is a general substrate for glutathione S-transferases. The specific activity is low compared with the substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene.
Abstract The minimum number of glutathione S -transferase species in adult chicken liver cytosol is four, as judged by O -(carboxymethyl)-cellulose chromatography. One species of enzyme, the second activity peak eluted from O -(carboxymethyl)-cellulose with a linear 0–200 m m KCl gradient, was purified by various procedures including DEAE-cellulose chromatography, ammonium sulfate precipitation, O -(carboxymethyl)-cellulose chromatography, and preparative isoelectric focusing. The purified protein had a specific activity of 3.4 units/mg of protein when 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was used as a substrate. The molecular weight of the protein, as determined by gel filtration, was 45,000. Electrophoresis under denaturing conditions revealed a single band of molecular weight about 23,000, indicating the enzyme is composed of two subunits of approximately equal size. The enzyme had a pH optimum of 8.8, and isoelectric point of 8.9, and an apparent K m of 0.35 m m for reduced glutathione and 1.92 m M for the substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. The enzyme exhibited an obligate requirement for reduced glutathione as the thiol donor. Like the mammalian enzyme, the purified chicken hepatic glutathione S -transferase also demonstrated multiple substrate specificities and was able to conjugate 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene, p -nitrobenzyl chloride, 1,2-epoxy-3-( p -nitrophenoxy) propane, trans -4-phenyl-3-buten-2-one, and ethacrynic acid. In addition to its catalytic activity, the purified transferase was also able to bind hemin. Fluorescence quenching studies of the binding of hemin to the enzyme indicated a dissociation constant of 2.2 × 10 −8 , m and a 1:1 molar ration of hemin binding to the purified enzyme. Kinetic analyses showed that hemin inhibited enzyme activity; inhibition by hemin was competitive with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene but noncompetitive with reduced glutathione ( K i ∼- 10 −6 m ). The ability of the enzyme to bind hemin suggests a possible role for glutathione S -transferase in the modulation of free intracellular heme levels, which may regulate the induction of S -amino-levulinic acid synthase, the rate-limiting enzyme in the heme biosynthetic pathway.
Oxidative stress is implicated in the pathogenesis and complications of type 2 diabetes mellitus (NIDDM). Glycoxidation may damage the enzymes that synthesise glutathione (GSH), an endogenous intracellular antioxidant. Erythrocytes (RBCs) taken from NIDDM subjects, and non-diabetic controls, were GSH-depleted using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, incubated in a solution containing GSH-rebuilding substrates, and sampled for GSH using a 5,5'-gamma-dithiobis-(2-nitrobenzoic acid)/enzymatic recycling procedure. NIDDM subjects, on average, had the same GSH concentration and synthesising ability as non-diabetic controls, indicating normal function of the synthesis enzymes. A positive correlation between synthesis and concentration of GSH seen in non-diabetic controls did not exist in NIDDM, due to their putatively larger oxidative load. The results, to the best of our knowledge, provide the first evidence that, despite a higher oxidative load, intact RBCs from NIDDM subjects are able to synthesise GSH normally. It is hypothesised that increased rates of GSH synthesis would maintain a normal steady-state GSH concentration.
Glutathione S-transferase (GST) of class Pi (GST Pi) is known to detoxify the mutagenic and carcinogenic (+)-anti-benzo[a]pyrene-7, 8-dihydrodiol 9,10-epoxide [(+)-anti-BPDE] by conjugation with glutathione. Previously, we have shown that Chinese hamster V79 cells contain GST Pi, but seem to lack the capacity to conjugate (+)-anti-BPDE, although these cells do conjugate other substrates with GSH [Romert, Dock, Jenssen and Jernström (1989) Carcinogenesis 10, 1701-1707; Swedmark, Romert, Morgenstern and Jenssen (1992) Carcinogenesis 13, 1719-1723; Swedmark and Jenssen (1994) Gene 139, 251-256]. In the present study we have compared four cell lines derived from different hamster species with respect to GST cDNA sequences and capacity to conjugate (+)-or(-)-anti-BPDE. The cell lines were V79 and Chinese hamster ovary cells (CHO), Armenian hamster lung (AHL) cells and baby hamster kidney (BHK) cells. The sequencing revealed a complete homology between the V79 and CHO cDNA for GST Pi, whereas the corresponding amino acid sequences predicted from the corresponding AHL and BHK cDNAs differed by six and nine amino acids, respectively, from the predicted V79 sequence. None of these changes alone was found to influence the xenobiotic substrate-binding site. The cytosolic fractions from BHK and AHL cells were found to catalyse conjugation of (+)-anti-BPDE with GSH, whereas the corresponding activity in CHO cells was non-detectable. As shown previously, V79 cells were devoid of activity towards (+)-anti-BPDE. All the cell lines studied demonstrated appreciable GST activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, but no activity with (-)-anti-BPDE. The latter result suggests that GST Pi is the sole or predominant GST in these cell lines. This was confirmed by HPLC analysis of purified enzymes obtained by affinity chromatography. However, when the catalytic activities of the pure enzymes were determined, all four different GST Pi enzymes were found to be highly capable of conjugating (+)-anti-BPDE with GSH. This observation indicates the existence of an intracellular factor that selectively inhibits conjugation of (+)-anti-BPDE, but not of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in the V79 and CHO cell lines. This new phenomenon seems to be specific for Chinese hamster, since both these cell lines originate from this species.
Abstract The isolation to purity of a rat liver mitochondrial thioredoxin reductase is reported. The mitochondrial enzyme shows a chromatographic behavior different from that of the cytosolic enzyme. The purified enzyme, after sodium dodecylsulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, yields a single band with a molecular weight of approximately 54 kDa. The apparent K m for E. coli thioredoxin is about 13 μM, while the apparent K m for 5,5′-dithiobis (2-nitrobenzoic acid) is 530 μM, values comparable to those reported for the cytosolic enzyme. Mitochondrial thioredoxin reductase, in addition to its natural substrate thioredoxin, is also able to reduce chemically unrelated compounds such as 5,5′-dithiobis (2-nitrobenzoic acid), selenite, and alloxan; the enzyme is inhibited by classical inhibitors of the cytosolic enzyme such as 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 13- cis -retinoic acid. A strong inhibitory action is also elicited by Mn 2+ and Zn 2+ ions. Thiol status appears critically involved in the control of membrane permeability and, therefore, a thiol/disulfide transition involving reduced pyridine nucleotides, matrix soluble thiols, and inner membrane thiols appears to play a fundamental role. The potential role of thioredoxin/thioredoxin reductase system in the control and redox regulation of the mitochondrial membrane permeability, is discussed.
An operationally simple colorimetric method for measuring glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity was developed using cysteamine-capped gold nanoparticles (AuNPs) in this work. This method was based that GST can catalyze the reaction of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and glutathione (GSH) to produce a conjugate (CDNB-SG). GSH could induce the aggregation of AuNPs, whereas the conjugate could not induce the aggregation of AuNPs. Thus, GST activity can be facilely assayed with the naked eye or a simple colorimetric reader. The convenient and simple colorimetric response of the assay makes them an attractive approach for drug-screening application.
Levels of glutathione S-transferase, carboxylesterase, and microsomal monooxygenases in two species of Lepidoptera ( Plutella xylostella L. and Ostrinia furnacalis Guenee) and five species of Homoptera ( Nilaparvata lugens Stal, Laodelphax striatellus Fallen, Nephotettix cincticeps Uhler, Hyadaphis erysimi (Kaltenbach), and Myzus persicae (Sulzer) were determined. For all species, activity of glutathione S-transferase was higher when 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was used as the substrate than when 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene was used. Nilaparvata lugens, L. striatellus , and Nephotettix cincticeps had 10 to 30 times more carboxylesterase activity toward both 1-naphthyl acetate and 2-naphthyl acetate than the two aphids, H. erysimi and M. persicae , and the two lepidopterans. More microsomal monooxygenase activity (50–100 times) toward several substrates was detected in larvae of the two lepidopterous insects as compared with all five homopterous insects. The very low microsomal monooxygenase activity in the sucking insects may be due to their contact only with water-soluble materials in plant saps. The metabolic mechanisms of insecticide resistance observed in these species may reflect this fundamental difference in the makeup of detoxifying enzymes.
To assess the biotransformational capability of ocular tissues in the rabbit, representative phase II enzymes were assayed in five tissues from the eye, and in the liver, kidney, and intestine. Within the eye, the iris/ciliary body exhibited the highest glutathione S-transferase activity, whereas the cornea possessed the highest specific activities for N-acetyl-, sulfo-, and UDP-glucuronosyl-transferases. Cornea, iris/ciliary body, choroid, and retina exhibited significant activities of p-aminobenzoic acid N-acetyltransferase, 2-naphthol sulfotransferase, and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene glutathione S-transferase. Despite its size and protein content, lens displayed little or no biotransformational activity. Only the iris/ciliary body conjugated sulfobromophthalein with glutathione. UDP-glucuronsyltransferase activity varied depending on tested substrates and tissues. When compared to liver, kidney, or intestine, N-acetyltransferase activity in the iris/ciliary body nearly matched the rate measured in kidney, glutathione S-transferase activity in cornea and iris/ciliary body was nearly 70 and 89%, respectively, of the rate in intestine, and corneal sulfotransferase activity was greater than that in kidney. These data suggest that biotransformation pathways are present in the eye, and particularly in ocular tissues having adequate blood supply or interfacing with the external environment.
Brown bullheads (Ameriurus nebulosus) are a demersal freshwater species that can be found in a number of polluted ecosystems. The purpose of the present study was to determine the overall capacity for in vitro glutathione S-transferase (GST) detoxification by brown bullheads, and to see if bullhead GST catalysis was altered in bullheads from a polluted site. Brown bullhead liver cytosolic GSTs catalyzed the conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) over a large range of substrate concentrations, with apparent Km and Vmax for CDNB at fixed nucleophile (glutathione, GSH) concentrations of 1.8-1.9 mM and 12.1-14.6 mumol CDNB conjugated/min/mg, respectively. Bullhead GSTs were also highly active toward other substrates such as ethacrynic acid (ECA), delta 5-androstene-3,17-dione (ADI), and nitrobutyl chloride (NBC). Initial rate GST catalytic activities toward CDNB, NBC, ECA, and ADI were significantly lower in female bullheads from a contaminated lake (Lake Apopka Marsh) as compared to female bullheads inhabiting a nearby control site (Lake Woodruff). No site differences were observed with respect to male bullhead GST activities. These studies suggest that brown bullheads efficiently carry out GST conjugation of diverse electrophilic substrates. However, bullhead GST catalysis may be compromised in bullheads inhabiting polluted ecosystems.
Atrazine (1000 ppm), endosulfan (1 ppm) or butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA) (1000 ppm) added to a semi-synthetic diet of Orthosia gothica for 2 days in the last instar did not change the soft tissue cytosolic glutathione-S-transferase (GST) activities towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB) and cumene hydroperoxide (CU). However, all three pesticides changed the GST subunit composition compared with the control as observed by reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography of the isozymes purified by glutathione–Sepharose affinity chromatography. The changes seem to have occurred mainly in the GST class 2 subunit. There is no obvious explanation for the changes, which may be a result of interactions between xenobiotic and GST in the cytosol as well as changes in the level of regulation of synthesis. However, the observation added to our knowledge of the processes involved when pesticides are degraded by GSTs in vivo.
The comparative inhibition of ethacrynic acid (EA) and its known metabolites against glutathione S-transferase (GST) was investigated using human livers procured from kidney donors. EA and all three metabolites of EA had an inhibitory effect against conjugation between 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and glutathione (GSH). The GSH adduct of EA (EA-GSH) was the most potent inhibitor of GSTs; EA-GSH was approximately one order of magnitude more potent than the parent EA, while l-cysteine conjugate of EA (EA-cysteine) and N-acetyl-l-cysteine conjugate of EA (EA-mercapturate) were approximately two orders of magnititude less potent than the parent EA. Further metabolism of EA-GSH conjugate is suggested to be a detoxification process in terms of GST activities.
Glutathione (GSH) is the most prominent antioxidant in cells and the co-factor of an important set of enzymes involved in the skin metabolic clearance system, glutathione S-transferases (GST). Here, we describe an LC-MS (liquid chromatography-mass spectroscopy) method to measure GSH and its disulfide form (GSSG) in HaCaT cells and a 3D Reconstructed Human Epidermis (RHE) model. In our assay, the basal level of GSH in both systems was in the low nmol/mg soluble protein range, while the level of GSSG was systematically below our limit of quantification (0.1 μM). We found that 2,4-dinitrohalobenzenes deplete the GSH present in HaCaT cells within the first hour of exposure, in a dose dependent manner. The level of GSH in HaCaT cells treated with a single non-toxic dose of 10 μM of dinitrohalobenzene was also shown to increase after two hours. While cells treated with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB) and 1-fluoro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNFB) repleted GSH to levels similar to untreated control cells within 24h, 1-bromo-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNBB) seemed to prevent such a repletion and appeared to be the most toxic compound in all assays. A mathematical modelling of experimental results was performed to further rationalise the differences observed between test chemicals. For this purpose the biological phenomena observed were simplified into two sequential events: the initial depletion of the GSH stock after chemical treatment followed by the repletion of the GSH once the chemical was cleared. Activation of the nuclear factor E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) pathway was observed with all compounds within two hours, and at concentrations less than 10 μM. These data show that GSH depletion and repletion occur rapidly in skin cells and emphasize the importance of conducting kinetic studies when performing in vitro experiments exploring skin sensitization.
The preparation of hepatocytes using the two-stage perfusion technique usually involves the use of collagenase (CII) alone or in combination with dispase (C/D) or trypsin inhibitor (CA/TI) as digestion enzymes. The effect of CII, C/D and CA/TI on cell viability, yield, cytochrome P450 mediated oxidation of testosterone, glucuronidation and sulfation of 7-hydroxycoumarin, glutathione content, glutathione-S-transferase activity and glutathione-conjugation capacity of hepatocytes has been assessed. Cytochrome P450 mediated oxidation of testosterone was significantly (p < 0.05) decreased with CII isolated hepatocytes (81.7 +/- 3.3 nmol/10(6) cells, mean +/- S.E.M., n = 3), compared with those isolated using CA/TI (96.6 +/- 1.9 nmol/10(6) cells) or C/D (95.1 +/- 2.1 nmol/10(6) cells). In contrast, glutathione conjugation of the non-specific substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was significantly (p < 0.05) increased with CII isolated hepatocytes (56.9 +/- 5.9 nmol/10(6) cells, mean +/- S.E.M., n = 3), compared with those isolated using CA/TI (36.0 +/- 3.7 nmol/10(6) cells) or C/D (31.6 +/- 3.7 nmol/10(6) cells). These findings have significant implications for the interpretation of metabolism data derived from hepatocytes in suspension, particularly in terms of glutathione conjugation of potentially toxic reactive intermediates of xenobiotic metabolism. Indeed, data presented show that the presence of trypsin inhibitor in the preparation of isolated rat hepatocytes significantly affects the formation of glutathione conjugates of reactive intermediate products of troglitazone metabolism.
Thiobarbituric acid (TBA), hydrogen peroxide (H 2 O 2 ), glutathione (GSH), 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), epinephrine, and 5,5'-dithiobis-2-nitrobenzoic acid (DTNB)
The GST superfamily is a multifunctional superfamily with important roles in vital activities. For example, several studies have demonstrated that GSTs exert a regulatory influence on the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway, especially when the MAPK signaling pathway takes part in cellular survival and death signaling caused by UV irradiation, H 2 O 2 treatment, and other stresses (Adler et al. 1999; Yin et al. 2000) . Moreover, mtDNA mutations caused by ROS can enhance tumor cell metastasis, while GST expression is upregulated in a large variety of tumor types, as previously reported (Tang and Tu 1994; Mapp et al. 2002; Segura-Aguilar and Paris 2014; Ishikawa et al. 2008) . GSTs are divided into three categories: cytosolic, microsomal, and mitochondrial; only two types of GSTs (cytosolic and microsomal) have been found in insects (Wang et al. 2019) . MGSTs differ from cytosolic GSTs in two aspects. First, MGSTs are located in microsomes and are integral membrane proteins (Mannervik et al. 2005) . Second, MGSTs are also members of the membraneassociated proteins in eicosanoid and glutathione metabolism (MAPEG) superfamilies, which are related to inflammatory reactions (Ekström et al. 2003) . Moreover, each member of the MAPEG superfamily plays a separate role in eicosanoid and glutathione metabolism (Jakobsson et al. 2010) . For example, MGST2 has been reported to accelerate the conjugation of the xenobiotic substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), as well as that of leukotriene A4 (LTA4), with glutathione, while MGST1 is linked to cellular defense against external substances or metabolites resulting from oxidative stress (Jakobsson et al. 2010; Scoggan et al. 1997; Morgenstern et al. 1996; Dejong et al. 1988; Mosialou et al. 1995; Ahmad et al. 2013 ).
Abstract An operationally simple colorimetric method for measuring glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity was developed using cysteamine-capped gold nanoparticles (AuNPs) in this work. This method was based that GST can catalyze the reaction of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and glutathione (GSH) to produce a conjugate (CDNB-SG). GSH could induce the aggregation of AuNPs, whereas the conjugate could not induce the aggregation of AuNPs. Thus, GST activity can be facilely assayed with the naked eye or a simple colorimetric reader. The convenient and simple colorimetric response of the assay makes them an attractive approach for drug-screening application.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) constitute a family of detoxification enzymes that catalyze the conjugation of glutathione (GSH) with a variety of hydrophobic compounds, including drugs and their metabolites, to yield water-soluble derivatives that are excreted in urine or bile. GSTs are involved in multiple biological functions, including xenobiotic detoxification, clearance of oxidative stress products, protein transport, modulation of cell proliferation, and induction of the apoptosis signaling pathway [1] . Moreover, GST isozymes (Alpha, Mu, and Pi) are frequently over-expressed in neoplastic tissues and have been considered as an important marker for a number of tumors such as lung, ovarian, breast, and gastric carcinoma [2, 3] . The assay of GST activity is of high importance for the development of efficient therapeutics and the screening of new anticancer drugs. To date, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), a ultraviolet chromogenic substrate, is the most prevalent probe for the assay of GST activity [4] . However, the chromogenic probe faces some obvious flaws like short absorption wavelength (340 nm), high background, and low sensitivity. While several elegant methods have so far been developed for GST activity assay [5, 6] , these methods are limited by the expensive materials, sophisticated instruments, or their time-consuming experimental procedures. As a consequence, a facile, cheap, and sensitive method for GST activity assay is still highly desired.
Abstract 1. Hepatic cytosolic glutathione S -transferase (GST) activities, toward five substrates, were shown to vary markedly among three laboratory rodent species. 2. Basal GST activities for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (hamster > mouse > rat), 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (mouse > rat > hamster), p -nitrobenzyl chloride (rat = mouse = hamster), bromosulfophthalein (rat > mouse > hamster) and 1,2-epoxy-3-( p -nitrophenoxy)propane (mouse > rat = hamster) differed with respect to magnitude and distribution among species. 3. GST substrate activities in response to phenobarbital, butylated hydroxy-anisole or 5,5'-diphenylhydantoin treatment were increased more often in mouse and rat as compared to the hamster. 4. These results suggest that basal GST activity, as well as inducibility, differ among rodent species. Since GST are involved in detoxication processes, differences in GST properties may underlie variability in species sensitivity to toxicants.
In the present study, we report the effect of several acaricides on the enzyme activity of a Boophilus microplus recombinant glutathione S-transferase (rGST). GST was expressed in Escherichia coli and was purified with glutathione (GSH) affinity column chromatography. The kinetic constants were determined by reacting GST with the substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and glutathione. We report the effect of several acaricides on the enzyme activity of rGST. Some acaricides (ethion, amitraz, chlorpyrifos, DDT, cypermethrin, diazinon, ivermectin, deltamethrin and flumethrin) inhibited rGST. Contrarily, coumaphos had an activating effect. Although the accurate mechanisms of the B. microplus resistance to acaricides remain elusive, this work helps in understanding how acaricides can interact with GST.
Chlorambucil (CMB), an anticancer drug, was cytotoxic at concentrations of 5-20 microM to human colon adenocarcinoma cells. It inhibited [14C]thymidine uptake in a dose-dependent manner. Both effects were potentiated by simultaneous exposure of the cells to 10 microM plant polyphenols. In an attempt to explain the possible mechanism of action of the polyphenols in relation to these observations, an HPLC-radiometric method was developed to measure the conjugation of CMB with glutathione in these cells and to monitor the export of monochloromonoglutathionyl CMB (MG-CMB), its main glutathione conjugate. At micromolar concentrations, five polyphenols, namely quercetin, butein, tannic acid, 2'-hydroxychalcone and morin, inhibited the efflux of CMB significantly; an inhibition of 40% was observed with 10 microM quercetin. The glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity of the cancer cells, measured with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, was also inhibited by the polyphenols. Their combined action on GST and on the efflux of MG-CMB conjugate could provide an enhanced positive modulation of sensitivity of the tumour cells to CMB.
The evolution of proteins for novel functions involves point mutations and recombinations of domains or structural segments. Mimicking this process by rational design in vitro is still a major challenge. The present report demonstrates that the active site of the enzyme glutathione transferase (GST) A1-1 can be tailored for high catalytic efficiency with alkenals. The result is a >3,000-fold change in substrate selectivity involving a noteworthy change in preferred catalyzed reaction from aromatic nucleophilic substitution to Michael addition. The hydrophobic substrate binding pocket of GST A1-1 is formed by three structural modules, which were redesigned sequentially with four point mutations and the exchange of a helical segment. The substitutions were made to mimic first-sphere interactions with a substrate in GST A4-4, which naturally has high activity with alkenals. These substrates are toxic lipid peroxidation products of pathophysiological significance, and glutathione conjugation is a route of their inactivation. The final product of the sequential redesign of GST A1-1, mutant GIMFhelix, had a 300-fold increase in catalytic efficiency with nonenal and a >10 times decreased activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. In absolute values, GIMFhelix is more efficient than wild-type GST A4-4 with some alkenal substrates, with a k(cat)/K(m) value of 1.5 +/- 0. 1 10(6) M(-1) small middle dots(-1) for nonenal. The pKa value of the active-site Tyr-9 of GIMFhelix is 7.3 +/- 0.1, approaching the unusually low value of GST A4-4. Thus, rational redesign of the active-site region of an enzyme may be sufficient for the generation of efficient catalysts with altered chemical mechanism and novel selectivity.
Abstract Glutathione transferase (GST) activity and GST isoenzyme composition have been determined for 24 human neoplasms and 6 human tumor cell lines. Substantial activity (40–1010 milliunits/mg protein) was identified in all tumor specimens examined and three of the tumor cell lines. Three tumor cell lines, the human small cell carcinoma line SW2-10S, the Burkitt9s lymphoma derived cell line Raji, and the human breast carcinoma cell line MCF-7, contained minimal GST activity. Although the small size of the tumor samples precluded isoenzyme analysis by substrate specificities, analysis of GST activity following sample separation by isoelectric focusing indicated that the predominant (comprising at least 70% of the 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene-conjugating activity) GST isoenzyme in each of these primary tumor (17 of 17) and tumor cell line (3 of 3) extracts was anionic (isoelectric point, 4.5–4.8). In three tumor samples, adenocarcinomas of the lung, colon, and stomach, analysis by isoelectric focusing identified minor but detectable (10–20% of total) cationic GST. The anionic form of GST has been purified to homogeneity from three primary human tumors: a malignant melanoma; a mesothelioma; and a breast carcinoma. GST from these tumors consists of two subunits each of M r 25,200. On Western blot analysis, antibodies raised against the anionic GST purified from mesothelioma detect protein of M r ∼ 25,000 in extracts of both normal kidney and tumors containing anionic GST activity but not in extracts of human liver that did not contain detectable anionic activity. The amino acid compositions of these proteins were quite similar to that previously described for GST-π and the amino-terminal amino acid sequences for these tumor-derived isoenzymes are identical to one another and to that previously described for GST-π from human placenta. GST is a major enzymatic activity in many human malignancies, comprising as much as 3% of the cytosolic protein of some tumors. Anionic GST is the predominant form of glutathione transferase activity in many human tumors and human tumor cell lines. In selected tumor samples the predominant anionic GST isoenzyme has been identified as a member of the pi class of this enzyme family. In addition, at least 3 of 17 tumor samples contained lesser but detectable amounts of cationic GST, probably of the alpha class. By conjugating glutathione with electrophilic anticancer drugs, the substantial levels of GST in human tumors may have a role in the innate or acquired resistance of these neoplasms to anticancer therapy.
An inducible, cytosolic glutathione S-transferase (GST) was purified from Streptomyces griseus. GST isoenzymes with pI values of 6.8 and 7.9 used standard GST substrates including 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. GST had subunit and native M(r)s of 24 and 48, respectively, and the N-terminal sequence SMILXYWDIIRGLPAH.
The flower of Chrysanthemum boreale has traditionally been used for treatment of various inflammatory disease including atopic dermatitis (AD). However, its action on AD is unclear. Therefore, we investigated the effect of CB on AD using NC/Nga mice as an AD model. The effect of CB on 1-Chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB) induced NC/Nga mice was evaluated by examining skin symptom severity, itching behavior, ear thickness, levels of serum Immunoglobulin E (IgE), tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), and interleukin-4 (IL-4), skin histology. The CB significantly reduced the total clinical severity score, itching behavior, ear thickness and the level of serum IgE in AD mouse model. CB not only decreased TNF-α but also IL-4. These results suggest that CB may be a potential therapeutic modality for AD.
The influence of the glutathione status of human polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMN) on 5-lipoxygenase activity was studied by treating cells with increasing concentrations of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (Dnp-Cl) or azodicarboxylic acid bis(dimethylamide) (Diamide). Subsequent incubation with arachidonate resulted in an up to tenfold-stimulated formation of 5-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid, leukotriene B4, leukotriene B4 isomers and omega-hydroxyleukotriene B4. Higher concentrations of the GSH reagents were inhibitory. At maximal stimulation by Dnp-Cl, 5-hydroperoxyeicosatetraenoic acid started to be built up at the expense of 5-HETE at glutathione levels which were diminished by about 50% compared to resting cells. No increase in cytosolic Ca2+ could be measured under these conditions by the fura-2 method. In PMN homogenates Dnp-Cl and Diamide were without effect and even caused inhibition when 5-lipoxygenase was stimulated by Ca2+ and ATP. 15-Lipoxygenase was either unchanged in the case of Diamide, or even increased after pretreatment with Dnp-Cl. The results allow us to conclude that 5-lipoxygenase activity in intact PMN is regulated not only by Ca2+ but in a complex manner also by the glutathione redox status. Conditions of oxidative stress increase the activity which may reflect the in vivo situation under phagocytosis and oxidative burst.
Two cDNAs encoding glutathione S-transferase (GST) of the tobacco cutworm, Spodoptera litura, were cloned by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. The deduced amino acid sequences of the resulting clones revealed 32-51% identities to the epsilon-class GSTs from other organisms. The recombinant proteins were functionally overexpressed in Escherichia coli cells in soluble form and were purified to homogeneity. The enzymes were capable of catalyzing the bioconjugation of glutathione with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 1,2-epoxy-3-(4-nitrophenoxy)-propane, and ethacrynic acid. A competition assay revealed that the GST activity was inhibited by insecticides, suggesting that it could be conducive to insecticide tolerance in the tobacco cutworm.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are multifunctional phase II detoxification enzymes that catalyze the attachment of electrophilic substrates to glutathione. The pi-class GST cDNA (leGSTp) was cloned from the cold-adapted Antarctic bivalve Laternula elliptica. We used degenerated primers designed based on highly conserved regions of known mollusk GSTs to amplify the corresponding L. elliptica mRNA. Full-length cDNA was obtained by rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE). The full sequence of the GST cDNA was 1189 bp in length, with a 5' untranslated region (UTR) of 74 bp, a 3' UTR of 485 bp, and an open reading frame of 630 bp encoding 209 amino acid residues with an estimated molecular mass of 23.9 kDa and an estimated isoelectric point of 8.3. Quantitative RT-PCR confirmed basal expression of leGSTp, which was up-regulated upon heat treatment (10 degrees C for different time periods) by a factor of 2.3 (at 24 h) and 2.7 (at 48 h) in the digestive gland and gill tissues, respectively. The recombinant leGSTp expressed in Escherichia coli was purified by affinity chromatography and characterized. The purified leGSTp exhibited high activity towards the substrates ethacrynic acid (ECA) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). The recombinant leGSTp had a maximum activity at approximately pH 8.0, and its optimum temperature was 35 degrees C.
The aim of the present study was to characterise developmental changes in glutathione S-transferase (GST) isoforms expression and in glutathione conjugation capacity in intrasplenic liver tissue transplants. For this purpose, syngenic fetal liver tissue suspensions were transplanted into the spleens of adult male Fischer 344 rats. Three days, 1, 2, 4 weeks, 2, 4, 6 months and 1 year later, transplant-recipients and control animals were sacrificed and class alpha, mu and pi GST isoforms expression and GST activities using the substrates o-dinitrobenzene and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene were assessed in livers and spleens. In the hepatocytes of the adult livers no class pi, but a distinct class alpha and mu GST expression was seen. The bile duct epithelia were class pi GST positive. Fetal livers displayed almost no class alpha and mu, but a slight class pi GST expression. The same pattern was seen in 3-day-old intrasplenic liver tissue transplants. Up to 2 weeks after surgery the class alpha and mu GST expression increased in the hepatocytes of the transplants, whereas the immunostaining for class pi GST disappeared. No remarkable changes were seen thereafter. Normal conjugation capacities were observed with the livers of both groups of rats. Control spleens displayed only low GST activities. From 2 months after transplantation on activities were significantly higher in transplant-containing spleens than in respective control organs with a further increase up to one year after grafting. These results show that intrasplenically transplanted fetal liver cells proliferate and differentiate into mature cells displaying a GST expression pattern with respective enzyme activities similar to adult liver.
Abstract Arg15, conserved in class Alpha GSTs (glutathione transferases), is located at the interface between the G- and H-sites of the active site where its cationic guanidinium group might play a role in catalysis and ligand binding. Arg15 in human GSTA1-1 was replaced with a leucine and crystallographic, spectroscopic, thermodynamic and molecular docking methods were used to investigate the contribution made by Arg15 towards (i) the binding of glutathione (GSH) to the G-site, (ii) the p K a of the thiol group of GSH, (iii) the stabilization of an analog of the anionic transition state of the S N Ar reaction between 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and GSH, and, (iv) the binding of the anionic non-substrate ligand 8-anilino-1-naphthalene sulphonate (ANS) to the H-site. While the R15L mutation substantially diminishes the CDNB–GSH conjugating activity of the enzyme, it has little effect on protein structure and stability. Arg15 does not contribute significantly towards the enzyme's affinity for GSH but does determine the reactivity of GSH by reducing the thiol's p K a from 7.6 to 6.6. The anionic σ -complex formed between GSH and 1,3,5-trinitrobenzene is stabilized by Arg15, suggesting that it also stabilizes the transition state formed in the S N Ar reaction between GSH and CDNB. The trinitrocyclohexadienate moiety of the σ -complex binds the H-site where the catalytic residue, Tyr9, was identified to hydrogen bond to an o -nitro group of the σ -complex. The affinity for ANS at the H-site is decreased about 3-fold by the R15L mutation implicating the positive electrostatic potential of Arg15 in securing the organic anion at this site.
Ten male, albino rabbits, weighing about 2,5 kg, were sensitized with 0.05% of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB) in complete Freund's adjuvant. Ten controls received the complete Freund's adjuvant only. Fourteen days later, the animals were submitted to a dental test. The four incisor pulps were exposed under general anesthesia. A sterile cotton pellet with 10-(-4) mg of DNCB was sealed inside the cavity. A skin test was also performed with 0.1% DNCB. The operative trauma was evaluated on five additional control animals. Twenty four hours after the challenge, the animals were killed and their teeth were studied histologically. Three different pulpitis were observed: 1) in animals without DNCB, a traumatic pulpitis with a mild focal necrosis and serous infiltrate; 2) a toxic pulpitis induced by the DNCB in the controls. They were killed and their teeth were studied histologically. Three different kinds of pulpitis induced in sensitized animals. A considerable necrosis is present close to the pulp exposure. This pulpitis is characterized by a marked serous exudate and by an accumulation of lymphocytes, eosinophils and macrophages, either perivascularly or in the pulpal mesenchyme. A modification of the present classification of pulpitis is proposed.
MHC class II molecules play an important role during tile sensitization phase of allergic contact dermatitis. To Study the influence of contact allergens on the expression of these molecules by murine epidermal Langerhans cells (LC), we performed a flow-cytofluorometric analysis of the Ia-antigen expression after in vivo application of contact allergens. A distinct decrease in the Ia-antigen expression of the entire LC population was noticed 3 h after in vivo application of the contact allergen 2,4-dinitrofluorobenzene(DNFB). This decrease was transient and balanced 24 h after in vivo application of DNFB. A downregulation was also detectable after in vivo application of the contact allergens 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB), oxazolone, K2Cr2O7, 2,4,6-trinitrochlorobenzene (TNCB), and toxic concentrations of the irritant compound sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS). In vitro studies showed that freshly prepared as well as 3-d cultured LC downregulated their Ia-antigen expression in the presence of DNFB, which was used as a model compound. This decrease was not inhibited by the MHC class II molecule transport-inhibitor brefeldin A nor by the ionophore monensin. The inhibition of receptor-mediated end0cytosis with hypertonic media (0.45 M sucrose) abolished the DNFB-mediated downregulation of Ia-antigen expression. An accelerated clearance of cell-surface-expressed antibody-labeled IA molecules was detectable in the presence of DNFB. Internalization studies carried out with peroxidase-labeled anti-IA-antibody complexes showed remarkable alterations in the intracellular distribution of endocytosed material under the influence of subtoxic concentrations of DNFB, DNCB, K2Cr2O7, and TNCB. The irritant substance sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) influenced the intracellular distribution pattern of internalized material only when used in toxic concentrations. An augmented participation of MHC class II molecules in endocytotic processes is mediated by reactive substances like contact allergens and might contribute to the processing and presentation of these compounds.
Glutathione transferases (GSTs) perform several catalytic and non-catalytic roles in the defense against toxicities of electrophile compounds and oxidative stress, and therefore are involved in stress-response and cell detoxification. Previously, we have provided evidence indicating that EgGST2 and EgGST3, two phylogenetically distant Echinococcus granulosus GSTs, can naturally form a heterodimeric structure (EgGST2-3). In the present work, the recombinant heterodimer GST (rEgGST2-3) is characterized. Hence, rEgGST2-3 was able to conjugate GSH to three substrates: 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB, general substrate for GSTs), 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (specific substrate for mammalian Mu class) and trans,trans-deca-2,4-dienal (reactive carbonyl). The canonical activity was considerably reduced by all the conventional inhibitors (cybacron blue, triphenylthin chloride and bromosulfophthalein) and by other inhibitors (ellagic acid, alizarin and chenodeoxycholic acid). Besides this, rEgGST2-3 activity was inhibited by a number of anthelmintic drugs, where the halogenated phenolic drugs (mainly bithionol and hexachlorophene) acted as stronger inhibitors, suggesting they may bind to the EgGST2-3. Moreover, rEgGST2-3 exhibited glutathione-peroxidase activity, and its specific constant (kcat/KM) was calculated. Finally, rEgGST2-3 displayed the ability to bind non-substrate molecules, particularly anthelmintic drugs, suggesting that ligandin activity may have potential to act as a passive protection parasite mechanism. Overall, the rEgGST2-3 behavior was shown to be both complementary and redundant to that reported for rEgGST1, another characterized GST from E. granulosus. It would be appropriate that different enzymes in the same organism do not have exactly the same functional properties to develop a better adaptation to life in the host.
The evolution of proteins for novel functions involves point mutations and recombinations of domains or structural segments. Mimicking this process by rational design in vitro is still a major challenge. The present report demonstrates that the active site of the enzyme glutathione transferase (GST) A1-1 can be tailored for high catalytic efficiency with alkenals. The result is a >3,000-fold change in substrate selectivity involving a noteworthy change in preferred catalyzed reaction from aromatic nucleophilic substitution to Michael addition. The hydrophobic substrate binding pocket of GST A1-1 is formed by three structural modules, which were redesigned sequentially with four point mutations and the exchange of a helical segment. The substitutions were made to mimic first-sphere interactions with a substrate in GST A4 -4, which naturally has high activity with alkenals. These substrates are toxic lipid peroxidation products of pathophysiological significance, and glutathione conjugation is a route of their inactivation. The final product of the sequential redesign of GST A1-1, mutant GIMFhelix, had a 300-fold increase in catalytic efficiency with nonenal and a >10 times decreased activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. In absolute values, GIMFhelix is more efficient than wild-type GST A4 -4 with some alkenal substrates, with a k cat͞Km value of 1.5 ؎ 0.1 10 6 M -1 ⅐s ؊1 for nonenal. The pKa value of the active-site Tyr-9 of GIMFhelix is 7.3 ؎ 0.1, approaching the unusually low value of GST A4 -4. Thus, rational redesign of the active-site region of an enzyme may be sufficient for the generation of efficient catalysts with altered chemical mechanism and novel selectivity.
An inducible, cytosolic glutathione S-transferase (GST) was purified from Streptomyces griseus. GST isoenzymes with pI values of 6.8 and 7.9 used standard GST substrates including 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. GST had subunit and native M r s of 24 and 48, respectively, and the N-terminal sequence SMILXYWDIIRGLPAH.
Chemicals. 4,4Ј-Diaminodiphenylmethane (DAPM, 99% purity) and 1-bromoheptane (BH, 99% purity) were purchased from Aldrich Chemical Co. (Milwaukee, WI). Buthionine-[S,R]-sulfoximine (BSO), 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), CoASH (reduced form), CoASSG, N-ethylmaleimide (NEM), 5,5Ј-dithio-bis-2-nitrobenzoic acid (DTNB), 3␣-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase, GSH (reduced form), GSSG, glutathione reductase, glycine, hydrazine sulfate, ␤-nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (␤-NAD), ␤-nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (reduced form, ␤-NADPH), tetrabutylammonium hydrogen sulfate (TBAH), 1,1,3,3-tetraethoxypropane, and taurocholate were obtained from Sigma Chemical Co. (St. Louis, MO).
Previous studies have demonstrated the presence of glutathione S-transferases in the skin of rodents and humans. This study represents the first attempt to purify cytosolic glutathione S-transferases from skin of 3-day-old rats. 2. A partial purification of the enzyme was achieved by a two-step procedure: affinity chromatography followed by HPLC. Two peaks, one major (P-l) and one minor (P-2), were resolved by HPLC containing about 82% and 10% of the recovered activity, respectively. 3. The major form exhibited an overall purification of about 2270-fold with a specific activity of about 73 #moles/min/mg protein towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. 4. The kinetic data for P-I yielded mean Km values of 2.39 mM for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 0.72 mM for reduced glutathione, while the respective average Vma x values were found to be 212 and 101/~moles/min/mg protein. 5. Significantly inhibition of enzyme activity was noted in the presence of 0.2 mM HgCI 2, 0.63 pM 1.2-naphthoquinone, 1.0 #M triphenyltin chloride, and 12.5 #M 17fl-estradiol-3-sulfate.
The placenta possesses the ability to metabolize a number of xenobiotics and endogenous compounds by processes similar to those seen in the liver. Animal and in vivo studies have observed that the presence of diabetes alters the expression of hepatic metabolizing enzymes (cytochrome P450 and glutathione S -transferase); however, it is unknown whether similar alterations occur in the human placenta. To evaluate whether diabetes has any effect of placental xenobiotic metabolizing activity, the catalytic activities of 7-ethoxyresorufin O -deethylation (EROD, CYP1A1), chlorzoxazone 6-hydroxylation (CYP2E1), dextromethorphan N -demethylation (CYP3A4), dextromethorphan O -demethylation (CYP2D6), and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) conjugation with glutathione (glutathione S -transferase, GST) from placentas of diet (class A1) and insulin-dependent (class A2) gestational diabetics and overt diabetics were compared with matched controls. EROD activity (CYP1A1) ranged from 0.29 to 2.67 pmol/min/mg protein. However, no differences were observed among overt or gestational diabetics and their respective matched controls. CDNB conjugation (GST) ranged from 0.275 to 1.65 units/min/mg protein. In contrast to that observed with CYP1A1, a small but statistically significant reduction in GST activity was noted in overt diabetics as compared with their matched controls and gestational diabetics. CYP2E1, 2D6, and 3A4 enzymatic activities were not detected in human placental tissue. GST protein was detectable in all tissues studied, but no CYP protein could be detected in any of the tissues. Thus, it seems that pregnant women with overt diabetes have reduced GST activity in the placenta, which could potentially result in the exposure of the fetus to harmful electrophiles. However, the full clinical significance of this finding remains to be elucidated.
Modulations of hepatopancreatic activities of cytochrome P4501A (CYP1A) and glutathione-dependent enzymes were investigated in carp collected in five ponds with different levels of contamination. The CYP1A-dependent 7-ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase activity was markedly induced by polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons present in the sediment at a total concentration of 0.9 mg/kg. Even a low organic contamination increased some of the glutathione-dependent enzymatic activities, namely cytosolic glutathione reductase, glutathione S-transferase toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, ethacrynic acid and l,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)propane, and microsomal glutathione S-transferase. These parameters should be considered as potential tools for the biomonitoring of exposure to chemicals and/or impacts of exposure. An example of a multivariate cluster and discriminant analysis of the obtained analytical and biochemical data proved to be very effectiv tools for the characterization of the level of contamination.
Abstract The biochemical properties and immunohistochemical localization of prostaglandin D synthetase were investigated in adult rat skin. The activity of prostaglandin D synthetase, which isomerizes prostaglandin H 2 to prostaglandin D 2 , was detected in the 100,000 g supernatant of the homogenate of adult rat skin. Whole skin showed considerable activity (1.9 nmol/min/mg protein), and prostaglandin D 2 was the major prostaglandin among those formed from prostaglandin H 2 in the presence of glutathione. The epidermis, which was separated from whole skin by heating (55°C, 30 s), exhibited about three times higher activity (3.5) than the dermis (1.0). The enzymatic properties of both layers were similar; they were absolutely glutathione-dependent, were inhibited only a few percent by 1 mM 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, and were completely absorbed by anti-rat spleen prostaglandin D synthetase antibody. Immunohistochemical studies, using anti-rat spleen prostaglandin D synthetase antibody and the immunoperoxidase method, showed that prostaglandin D synthetase was localized in Langerhans cells (not in keratinocytes) in the epidermis, in macrophages or histiocytes, and also in mast cells in the dermis. Immunoelectron microscopy also supported these findings. These results suggest that prostaglandin D 2 is one of the most important arachidonic acid metabolites and plays a significant role in immunological function in the skin via Langerhans cells and macrophages.
Abstract 1. Specific activities of glutathione S-transferase towards four model substrates were determined in guinea-pig brain 50,000 g supernatant and compared with those obtained for liver and kidney extract. 2. By using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate, glutathione S-transferase activity was measured in different anatomical regions of brain; cerebellum expressed the highest conjugating capacity. 3. Brain glutathione S-transferase was resolved into four major peaks (PI 6.10, 6.60, 7.15, 7.65) each having similar kinetic constants for both substrates GSH and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. 4. Likewise, four forms, focused at pH 6.45, 7.14, 7.50 and 8.88, were obtained from liver. 5. Unlike hepatic tissue, brain does not possess the highly alkaline form which displays Se-independent GSH peroxidase activity. 6. Several psychotropic agents, including chlorpromazine and chlorazepate, produced a considerable in vitro inhibition on brain transferase activity.
A kinetic study is reported for SNAr reaction of 1-fluoro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (5a) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (5b) with alkali-metal ethoxides (EtOM, M = Li, Na, K and 18-crown-6-ether complexed K) in anhydrous ethanol. The second-order rate constant increases in the order kEtOLi < kEtO− < kEtONa < kEtOK < kEtOK/18C6 for the reaction of 5a and kEtOLi < kEtONa < kEtO− < kEtOK < kEtOK/18C6 for that of 5b. This indicates that M ion behaves as a catalyst or an inhibitor depending on the size of M ion and the nature of the leaving group (F vs. Cl). Substrate 5a is more reactive than 5b, although the F in 5a is ca. 10 pKa units more basic than the Cl in 5b, indicating that the reaction proceeds through a Meisenheimer complex in which expulsion of the leaving group occurs after the rate-determining step (RDS). M ion would catalyze the reaction by increasing either the nucleofugality of the leaving group through a four-membered cyclic transition state or the electrophilicity of the reaction center through a π-complex. However, the enhanced nucleofugality would be ineffective for the current reaction, since expulsion of the leaving group occurs after the RDS. Thus, it has been concluded that M ion catalyzes the reaction by increasing the electrophilicity of the reaction center through a π-complex between M ion and the π-electrons in the benzene ring.
Based on the EST sequence of glutathione S-transferase gene from Tamarix androssowii (TaGST) published on GenBank, a TaGST cDNA was cloned with 3' and 5' RACE techniques. The full length of TaGST was 1 175 bp with ORF of 672 bp that encoded 224 amino acid residues(GenBank accission No. DQ683363). The deduced amino acid sequence encoded by TaGST was homologous with that of known plant GST and the identity was 48% (GST10 of Glycine max ). To characterize its function, the TaGST expression vector was constructed with pET-28a(+) and transformed into Escherichia coli BL21. The SDS-PAGE result showed that the TaGST protein was expressed and the molecular weight was about 26 kD which was similar to the expected one. The enzyme activity assay of the TaGST indicated that TaGST could catalyze the substrate reaction of CDNB(1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene) with GSH (reduced glutathione). It was confirmed that the TaGST did encode a functional GST protein.
Bioassay using diet incorporation of azinphosmethyl showed six strains of light brown apple moth to have varying levels of resistance to azinphosmethyl (3- to 15-fold) compared with three susceptible strains. Two of these strains were products of a selection and backcrossing program providing resistant insects that had a common genome with that of one of the susceptible strains. Individual male moths from each strain were tested for (i) glutathione S-transferase and (ii) non-specific esterase activity. Larvae were assayed for (iii) mixed function oxidase activity. Each enzyme group was assayed with two substrates. Significant positive regressions between LC50 and enzyme activity were observed for all three groups: (i) r2 = 0.84 for 3,4-dichloronitrobenzene conjugation, (ii) 0.64 for α-naphthyl acetate hydrolysis, 0.54 for α-naphthyl butyrate hydrolysis, and (iii) 0.88 for p-nitroanisole oxidation and 0.86 for aniline oxidation. No correlation with the LC50 was found for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene conjugation (r2 = 0.001). Activities of all three groups were significantly higher in the two backcross resistant strains compared to the susceptible parent strain (P < 0.05). The gene(s) for high enzyme activity had thus been successfully transferred with the factor for resistance. The results suggest a close relationship between detoxication enzyme activity and azinphosmethyl resistance.
The complementary DNAs of rat glutathione S-transferase (GST, EC 2.5.1.18) Yc1 and of mouse Yc were expressed from a prokaryotic expression vector in E. coli. The purified proteins were analyzed for their activity toward aflatoxin B1-8,9-epoxide (AFBO), the reactive intermediate of the fungal mycotoxin aflatoxin B1 (AFB). The mouse Yc isozyme had about 50-fold higher conjugating activity toward AFBO than the rat Yc1 isozyme (144 nmol/mg/min versus 3.3 nmol/mg/min). The rat Yc1 isozyme had specific activities toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, cumene hydroperoxide and ethacrynic acid of 10.7, 0.98 and 0.92 mumol/mg/min, respectively, whereas the mouse Yc isozyme had specific activities of 5.7, 2.1 and 0.1 mumol/mg/min for these substrates, respectively. These data provide further support for the hypothesis that the constitutive presence of the alpha class GST Yc isozyme in mouse liver protects mice from the hepatocarcinogenic effects of aflatoxin B1.
Glutathione S-transferases in the small intestine function in detoxification of electrophilic compounds ingested in foods, dietary supplements, and orally administered drug preparations. Although the required substrate glutathione (GSH) is synthesized in the intestinal enterocytes, the rate of synthesis is slow compared to both the maximal GST activity and the rate of uptake of luminal GSH. GSH is supplied to the intestinal lumen in the bile, and normal luminal concentrations in the rat are about 250 μM. The present study was designed to test the hypothesis that exogenous GSH is used for intestinal conjugation by glutathione S-transferase. The results show that 250 μM of extracellular GSH stimulated conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene by approximately 300% in rat intestinal enterocyte preparations. However, an unexpected finding was that most of this stimulated activity did not depend upon uptake of GSH by the enterocytes but was due to glutathione S-transferase associated with mucus. Immunohistochemistry of glutathione S-transferase in the intact small intestine confirmed that a portion of the GST is present in the mucus layer. The presence of this detoxication enzyme in the extracellular mucus layer provides a novel mechanism for preventing direct contact of potentially toxic dietary electrophiles with the intestinal enterocytes.
Abstract A test for the detection of certain ketones is based on the reaction with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in the presence of an anion-exchange resin in the OH − form, to give a violet colour on the resin bead surface.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) have been demonstrated to reduce cancer rates in oesophagus, stomach and colon of humans and animals. Earlier, we showed that high human gastrointestinal tissue levels of glutathione S-transferase (GST), a family of detoxification enzymes consisting of class alpha, mu, pi and theta isoforms, were inversely correlated with cancer risk. We investigated whether the NSAIDs indomethacin, ibuprofen, piroxicam, acetyl salicylic acid (ASA), and sulindac, supplemented in the diet for 2 weeks at 25, 400, 400, 400, and 320 ppm, respectively, influenced gastrointestinal GSTs in male Wistar rats. In cytosolic fractions of oesophagus, stomach, intestine and liver, GST activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was measured, GST isozyme levels were determined by densitometrical analysis of Western blots after immunodetection with monoclonal antibodies, and glutathione levels were determined by HPLC. GST activity and GST mu levels were increased (1.2-1.8 x) in oesophagus and small intestine by indomethacin, ibuprofen, piroxicam and sulindac. GST alpha levels were induced (1.2-2.8 x) in stomach by piroxicam, in small intestine by indomethacin, ibuprofen, piroxicam and sulindac, and in liver by piroxicam. GST pi levels were raised (1.9-3.6 x) in stomach by ibuprofen, ASA, and sulindac, and in small intestine by indomethacin, piroxicam, ASA, and sulindac. Glutathione levels were raised (1.2-2.3 x) by indomethacin and ASA in small intestine and by piroxicam in oesophagus. Enhancement of GSTs in the upper part of the digestive tract, resulting in a more efficient detoxification, may explain in part the anticarcinogenic properties of NSAIDs.
Abstract 1. 1. The Tribolium castaneum glutathione -S- transferase (GST) enzyme was purified from the cytosolic fraction of whole larvae to apparent homogeneity, using sequential steps of ammonium sulphate fractionation, DEAE—Sepharose gel filtration and affinity chromatography on glutathione (GSH)-agarose column. The effective last step resulted in a substantial 167-fold purification and a relatively good yield of 50%. 2. 2. The K m values for the conjugating activity of the purified GST were estimated to be 3.6 × 10 −4 M for GSH and 2.7 × 10 −5 M for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. 3. 3. Sodium dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of the purified enzyme gave two distinct polypeptides corresponding to apparent mol. wts of 24,000 and 26,000.
The kinetics of the reaction between 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and piperidine was studied in several completely non-aqueous binary solvent mixtures where the preferential solvation is the rule at 15, 25 and 40°C. The reaction was chosen as the simplest example of aromatic nucleophilic substitutions (ANS). For (aprotic solvent + aprotic co-solvent) binary systems the co-solvent was toluene, and the rest of the solvents used were selected with different structural characteristics and an extensive range of polarity. In this kind of mixture a property of mixed binary solvents would be defined by means of ET(30) values and the solvent effects on this simple model of ANS reactions are similar to those of aprotic pure solvents, especially if hydrogen-bond donor solvent mixtures are excluded from the analysis. For (aprotic solvent + protic co-solvent) binary systems the co-solvent used was methanol. The presence of a protic solvent in the mixture strongly determines the solvent effects on the reaction. In this type of binary mixture, the chemical probe under consideration may not be generally valid to interpret solvation effects. Additionally, empirical solvent polarity parameters ET(30) were determined UV-VIS spectrophotometrically for some pure aprotic solvents and, as a function of the composition, for (dimethylformamide + toluene), (toluene + methanol) and (1,1,1-trichloroethane + methanol) at 15 and 40°C, with the purpose of extending the studies on the empirical polarity indices in binary solvent mixtures to the thermo-solvatochromic area.
3. The major form exhibited an overall purification of about 2270-fold with a specific activity of about 73 #moles/min/mg protein towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene.
4. The kinetic data for P-I yielded mean Km values of 2.39 mM for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 0.72 mM for reduced glutathione, while the respective average Vma x values were found to be 212 and 101/~moles/min/mg protein.
A kinetic study is reported for S N Ar reaction of 1-fluoro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (5a) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (5b) with alkali-metal ethoxides (EtOM, M = Li, Na, K and 18-crown-6-ether complexed K) in anhydrous ethanol. The second-order rate constant increases in the order k EtOLi < k EtO − < k EtONa < k EtOK < k EtOK/18C6 for the reaction of 5a and k EtOLi < k EtONa < k EtO − < k EtOK < k EtOK/18C6 for that of 5b. This indicates that M + ion behaves as a catalyst or an inhibitor depending on the size of M + ion and the nature of the leaving group (F -vs. Cl -). Substrate 5a is more reactive than 5b, although the F -in 5a is ca. 10 pK a units more basic than the Cl -in 5b, indicating that the reaction proceeds through a Meisenheimer complex in which expulsion of the leaving group occurs after the rate-determining step (RDS). M + ion would catalyze the reaction by increasing either the nucleofugality of the leaving group through a four-membered cyclic transition state or the electrophilicity of the reaction center through a π-complex. However, the enhanced nucleofugality would be ineffective for the current reaction, since expulsion of the leaving group occurs after the RDS. Thus, it has been concluded that M + ion catalyzes the reaction by increasing the electrophilicity of the reaction center through a π-complex between M + ion and the π-electrons in the benzene ring.
Abbreviations used: AD, 5 -androstene-3,17-dione; Aza, azathioprine; CDNB, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene; CuOOH, cumene hydroperoxide; DiEt, 1,2-diiodoethane; EA, ethacrynic acid; ESP, electrostatic potential; GST, glutathione transferase; A2*E, GST A2-2*E; MD, molecular dynamics; Non, nonenal; PCA, principal component analysis; PEITC, phenethyl isothiocyanate; pNPA, p-nitrophenyl acetate; vdw, van der Waals.
Glutathione S-transferases in the small intestine function in detoxification of electrophilic compounds ingested in foods, dietary supplements, and orally administered drug preparations. Although the required substrate glutathione (GSH) is synthesized in the intestinal enterocytes, the rate of synthesis is slow compared to both the maximal GST activity and the rate of uptake of luminal GSH. GSH is supplied to the intestinal lumen in the bile, and normal luminal concentrations in the rat are about 250 M. The present study was designed to test the hypothesis that exogenous GSH is used for intestinal conjugation by glutathione Stransferase. The results show that 250 M of extracellular GSH stimulated conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene by approximately 300% in rat intestinal enterocyte preparations. However, an unexpected finding was that most of this stimulated activity did not depend upon uptake of GSH by the enterocytes but was due to glutathione S-transferase associated with mucus. Immunohistochemistry of glutathione S-transferase in the intact small intestine confirmed that a portion of the GST is present in the mucus layer. The presence of this detoxication enzyme in the extracellular mucus layer provides a novel mechanism for preventing direct contact of potentially toxic dietary electrophiles with the intestinal enterocytes.
Key Words: glutathione; 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene; conjugation; electrophiles; diet.
The purpose of the present study was to determine whether exogenous glutathione increased the rate of the conjugation of an electrophilic compound by rat small intestinal enterocytes. For this purpose, we used rat freshly isolated intestinal cells and examined the conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), a general substrate for major isoforms of GST (Ketterer, 1988) . The results showed that transported GSH stimulated intracellular metabolism, but also revealed that a substantial conjugation rate occurred extracellularly. The study of the distribution of the activity and immunohistochemistry showed that this extracellular activity was due to GST associated with the layer of mucus lining the intestinal epithelium.
Materials. GSH, GSSG, acivicin, iodoacetic acid, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 1-fluoro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (Sanger's reagent), heparin, and trichloroacetic acid were obtained from Sigma, St. Louis, MO. Dithiothreitol (DTT) and glacial acetic acid were purchased from Baxter, McGaw Park, IL. Collagenase D was purchased from GIBCO BRL, Gaithersburg, MD. The methanol was HPLC-grade and was purchased from Curtin Matheson Scientific, Inc., Houston, TX. Pentobarbitol sodium (Wyeth Laboratories) was obtained from the Emory University Hospital. Solvable™ was purchased from Dupont NEN Research Products, Boston, MA. Primary antibody (raised in rabbit) that reacted with and forms of GST (Biotrin International, Dublin, Ireland) was a generous gift from Dr. Thomas Boyer, Emory University, Atlanta, GA. Secondary antibody (anti-rabbit IgG with a fluorescein isothiocyanate label, raised in goat) was purchased from Sigma, St. Louis, MO. All other chemicals were reagent grade or better.
GSTP1 is polymorphic with two common functional variants described based on substitutions at amino acids 105 (Ile-Val) and 114 (Ala-Val). Thus, four haplotypes have been identified: the wildtype GSTP1 Ã A (Ile 105 þAla 114 ) and three variant haplotypes, GSTP1 Ã B (Val 105 þAla 114 ), GSTP1 Ã C (Val 105 þVal 114 ) and GSTP1 Ã D (Ile 105 þVal 114 ) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) . The Val 105 variant, compared with Ile 105 , appears to confer a higher catalytic efficiency for polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon diol epoxides but a lower efficiency for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) . The crystal structure of GSTP1 Val 105 reveals that it is probable to fit less bulky substrates but has broader substrate specificity than the GSTP1 Ile 105 variant of the enzyme (12) . In addition, heat stability of the proteins is different with half-lives of 19 min (GSTP1 Ile 105 ) and 51 min (GSTP1 Val 105 ) described. Amino acid 105 lies in close proximity to the active centre of the enzyme and it is therefore not surprising that this residue influences catalytic activity (12) . The effect of the Ala 114 -Val 114 substitution is unclear, though there is some evidence that it enhances the effect of the Ile 105 -Val 105 substitution (8) .
The Omega class glutathione transferases (GSTs) have been identified in many organisms, including human, mouse, rat, pig, Caenorhabditis eglands and Drosophila melanogaster. These GSTs have poor activity with common GST substrates, but exhibit novel glutathione-dependent thioltransferase, dehydroascorbate reductase and monomethylarsonate reductase activities, and modulate Ca release by ryanodine receptors. An investigation of the genomic organization of human GSTO1 identified a second actively transcribed member of the Omega class (GSTO1). Both GSTO1 and GSTO2 are composed of six exons and are separated by 7.5 kb on chromosome 10q24.3. A third sequence that appears to be a reverse-transcribed pseudogene (GSTO3p) has been identified on chromosome 3. GSTO2 has 64% amino acid identity with GSTO1 and conserves the cysteine residue at position 32, which is thought to be important in the active site of GSTO1. Expression of GSTO2 mRNA was seen in a range of tissues, including the liver, kidney, skeletal muscle and prostate. The strongest GSTO2 expression was in the testis, which also expresses a larger transcript than other tissues. Characterization of recombinant GSTO2 has been limited by its poor solubility. Two functional polymorphisms of GSTO1 have been identified. One alters a splice junction and causes the deletion of E155 and another results in an A140D substitution. Characterization of these variants revealed that the A140D substitution affects neither heat stability, nor activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene or hydroxyethyl disulphide. In contrast, deletion of residue E155 appears to contribute towards both a loss of heat stability and increased enzymatic activity.
Background Occupational asthma can be caused by chemicals. Previously, we established a murine model of immunologically mediated chemical-induced asthma using toluene diisocyanate. Objective We sought to verify this model using trimellitic anhydride (TMA), a respiratory sensitizer, and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB), a dermal sensitizer. Methods BALB/c mice received dermal applications (vehicle or chemical) on days 1 and 7. On day 10, they received an intranasal instillation (vehicle or chemical). Whole-body plethysmography (enhanced pause) was used to monitor changes in ventilatory function and methacholine reactivity. Pulmonary inflammation was assessed by using bronchoalveolar lavage (cells, TNF-α levels, and macrophage inflammatory protein 2 levels). Immunologic parameters included total serum IgE levels, lymphocyte distribution in auricular and cervical lymph nodes, and IL-4 and IFN-γ levels in supernatants of lymph node cells incubated with or without concanavalin A. Results Mice dermally treated and intranasally challenged with TMA experienced markedly increased enhanced pause immediately after intranasal challenge and increased methacholine reactivity (24 hours later). Mice similarly treated with DNCB did not show any ventilatory changes. Neutrophil influx and increased macrophage inflammatory protein 2 and TNF-α levels were found in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid in both TMA- and DNCB-treated mice. The proportion of CD19 + B cells was increased in auricular and cervical lymph nodes of TMA-treated mice. IL-4 and IFN-γ levels were increased in supernatants of concanavalin A–stimulated auricular and cervical lymph node cells of TMA- or DNCB-treated mice; however, the relative proportions of IL-4 and IFN-γ levels differed between TMA- and DNCB-treated mice. Serum total IgE levels were increased in TMA-treated mice only. Conclusion Both compounds induce a mixed T H 1-T H 2 response, but only TMA induced ventilatory changes. Clinical implications In the workplace avoiding skin contact with chemical sensitizers might be advised to prevent chemical-induced asthma.
Abstract Fish hepatic glutathione transferases are connected with the elimination of intracellular pollutants and detoxification of organic micro-pollutants in their aquatic ecosystem. The two-substrate steady state kinetic mechanism of Silver catfish ( Synodontis eupterus ) major hepatic glutathione transferases purified to apparent homogeneity was explored. The enzyme was dimeric enzyme with a monomeric size of 25.6 kDa. Initial-velocity studies and Product inhibition patterns by methyl glutathione and chloride with respect to GSH-CDNB; GSH-ρ-nitrophenylacetate; and GSH-Ethacrynic acid all conforms to a rapid equilibrium sequential random Bi Bi kinetic mechanism rather than steady state sequential random Bi Bi kinetic. α was 2.96 ± 0.35 for the model. The pH profile of V max / K M (with saturating 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and variable GSH concentrations) showed apparent pKa value of 6.88 and 9.86. Inhibition studies as a function of inhibitor concentration show that the enzyme is a homodimer and near neutral GST. The enzyme poorly conjugates 4-hydroxylnonenal and cumene hydroperoxide and may not be involved in oxidative stress protection. The se GST is unique and overwhelmingly shows characteristics similar to those of homodimeric class Pi GSTs, as was indicated by its kinetic mechanism, substrate specificity and inhibition studies. The rate- limiting step, probably the product release, of the reaction is viscosity-dependent and is consequential if macro-viscosogen or micro-viscosogen.
Abstract 1. 1. Multiple forms of glutathione S -transferase (GST) isoenzymes present in human tissues are dimers of subunits belonging to three distinct gene families namely α, μ and π. Only the subunits within each class hybridize to give active dimers. 2. 2. These subunits are differentially expressed in a tissue-specific manner and the composition of glutathione S -transferases in various tissues differs significantly. 3. 3. Minor GST subunits not belonging to these three classes are also present in some tissues. 4. 4. An ortholog of rat GST 8-8 and mouse mGSTA4-4 is selectively expressed in some human tissues including bladder, brain, heart, liver, and pancreas. This isoenzyme designated as GST 5.8 expresses several fold higher activity towards 4-hydroxy-2,3-trans-nonenal as compared to the routinely used substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene.
Abstract The effects of murine AIDS infection on endogenous antioxidant defenses in mice fed the AIN-76A liquid diet were investigated. C57BL/6 female mice were divided into 2 groups: one group was injected interperitoneally with LP-BM5 murine retrovirus (MAIDS) stock, and the other group served as the non-infected control. Two weeks after the infection, the mice were killed and livers were excised for biochemical analysis of the antioxidant defenses. Liver reduced glutathione (GSH) levels and activities of both cytosolic Superoxide dismutase (SOD) and mitochondrial SOD were significantly depressed by MAIDS infection. Activities of glutathione reductase (GR), selenium (Se)-dependent glutathione peroxidase (GPx), catalase and glutathione-S-transferase (GST) toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) were not affected by MAIDS infection. A previous study by this laboratory using the Lieber-DeCarli (L-D) all purpose liquid diet caused a decline in total SOD activity and GPx activity, but not GSH levels. The results suggest that MAIDS infection depresses liver antioxidant defenses; however, MAIDS infection of mice fed the AIN-76A liquid diet depresses different liver antioxidant defense parameters when compared to those of the mice fed the L-D all purpose liquid diet.
A mouse glutathione S-transferase (GST) isozyme designated as GST 5.7 or mGSTA4-4 belongs to a distinct subclass of the alpha-class isozymes of GST. It is characterized by kinetic properties intermediate between the alpha- and pi-classes of GSTs. We have recently cloned and expressed this isozyme (rec-mGSTA4-4) in E. coli and have reported its complete primary sequence (Zimniak, P., et al. (1992) FEBS Lett., 313, 173-176). Using antibodies raised against the homogenous rec-mGSTA4-4 expressed in E. coli, we now demonstrate that an ortholog of this isozyme was selectively expressed in various human tissues. The human ortholog of mGST A4-4 purified from liver had a pI value of 5.8 and constituted approx. 1.7% of total GST protein of human liver. Similar to other alpha-class GSTs, the N-terminus of this isozyme (GST 5.8) was also blocked. CNBr digestion of the enzyme yielded two major fragments with M(r) values of 12 kDa and 6 kDa. The sequences of these two fragments showed identities in 16 out of 20 residues and 17 out of 20 residues with the corresponding sequences of its mouse ortholog (mGSTA4-4), and showed significant homologies with the rat and chicken orthologs, GST 8-8 and GST CL3. Human liver GST 5.8 showed more than an order of magnitude higher activity towards t-4-hydroxy-2-nonenal as compared to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. This isozyme also expressed glutathione-peroxidase activity towards fatty acid, as well as phospholipid hydroperoxides suggesting its role in protection mechanisms against the toxicants generated during lipid peroxidation. Western blot analysis of human tissues revealed that this GST isozyme was selectively expressed in human liver, pancreas, heart, brain and bladder tissues, but absent in lung, skeletal muscle, spleen and colon.
Glutathione transferases purified from plasma membrane and microsomal fractions from rat liver share similar enzymic properties. The activity of both proteins with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene can be stimulated about 10–15-fold by N-ethylmaleimide. No activation is observed using p-nitrobenzylchloride as a substrate. ::: ::: ::: ::: The enzymes are immunologically related as indicated by Western-blot analysis using antibodies against the microsomal glutathione transferase or against a synthetic peptide corresponding to the amino acid positions 55–64 of microsomal glutathione transferase. Isolated plasma membrane and microsomal glutathione transferases possess the same amino-terminal amino acid sequence and digestion with different proteases results in identical fragment patterns as displayed by SDS/PAGE. These data suggest that plasma membrane and microsomal glutathione transferase are identical proteins.
Abstract Human glutathione transferase π (GST π) has been crystallized as a homodimer, with a subunit molecular mass of ∼23 kDa; however, in solution the average molecular mass depends on protein concentration, approaching that of monomer at <0.03 mg/ml, concentrations typically used to measure catalytic activity of the enzyme. Electrostatic interaction at the subunit interface greatly influences the dimer-monomer equilibrium of the enzyme and is an important force for holding subunits together. Arg-70, Arg-74, Asp-90, Asp-94, and Thr-67 were selected as target sites for mutagenesis, because they are at the subunit interface. R70Q, R74Q, D90N, D94N, and T67A mutant enzymes were constructed, expressed in Escherichia coli, and purified. The construct of N-terminal His tag enzyme facilitates the purification of GST π, resulting in a high yield of enzyme, but does not alter the kinetic parameters or secondary structure of the enzyme. Our results indicate that these mutant enzymes show no appreciable changes in Km for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and have similar CD spectra to that of wild-type enzyme. However, elimination of the charges of either Arg-70, Arg-74, Asp-90, or Asp-94 shifts the dimer-monomer equilibrium toward monomer. In addition, replacement of Asp-94 or Arg-70 causes a large increase in the KmGSH, whereas substitution for Asp-90 or Arg-74 primarily results in a marked decrease in Vmax. The GST π retains substantial catalytic activity as a monomer probably because the glutathione and electrophilic substrate sites (such as for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene) are predominantly located within each subunit.
The pathogenesis of cataract is influenced by a number of factors including oxidative stress. Glutathione-S-transferase (GST) catalyses the nucleophilic addition of the thiol of GSH to electrophilic acceptors. It is important for detoxification of xenobiotics in order to protect tissues from oxidative damage. In humans, GSTT1 and GSTM1 deletion genotypes are associated with a variety of pathological conditions including certain ophthalmic diseases. In the present study, it is aimed to determine the risk of genetic polymorphisms of GSTM1 and GSTT1 isoforms of GST for developing of age related cataracts (ARCs). We compared the prevalence of GSTT1 and GSTM1 deletion genotypes, which were determined by multiplex polymerase chain reaction, in 455 patients with ARCs (108 with nuclear (NC), 105 with cortical (CC), 96 with posterior subcapsular, (PSC) and 146 with mixed type (MT)) and 205 age and sex matched controls. The GST activity in erythrocytes (RBC) and cataractous lenses was measured spectrophotometrically using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrate. The frequency of GSTM1 positive individuals was significantly higher in MT cataracts followed by NC, CC and PSC types with corresponding decrease in the GSTM1 null genotypes as compared to controls. Considering the GSTT1 locus, GSTT1 null genotypes showed high frequency in patients in general as compared to controls with corresponding reduction in the GSTT1 positive genotype. The activity of GST in RBC was higher in all the types of cataracts as compared to that in controls and in cataractous lenses the mean values were slightly higher in cases of NC cataracts as compared to CC, PSC and MT. The data suggests that GSTM1 positive, GSTT1 null and double null (GSTM1 null and GSTT1 null) genotypes may confer risk for the development of ARC. The increased activity of GST found in the present study could be due to a compensatory mechanism operating in response to increased oxidative stress.
Abstract Streptozotocin (STZ) increased the activity of mouse hepatic glutathione (GSH) S -transferases assayed with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Nicotinamide administered prior to STZ prevented the hyperglycemia indicative of STZ-induced diabetes, but had no effect on the increase in GSH S -transferase activity caused by the drug. Another diabetogenic agent, alloxan, did not alter GSH S -transferase activity. Thus, streptozotocin may be increasing GSH S -transferase activity directly, and not as a result of the diabetic state the drug induces. Two transferases were characterized from mouse liver cytosol. One was a homodimer with a subunit molecular weight of about 28,000 and a pI of about 8.2. The other was also a homodimer with a subunit molecular weight of about 27,500 and a pI of about 9.2. The pI 8.2 GSH S -transferase was induced by STZ, while the pI 9.2 transferase was decreases by the drug. At least one other transferase appeared to be induced by STZ. Two other nitroso compounds, chlorozotocin and diethylnitrosamine, also increased GSH S -transferase activity, suggesting that this effect may be nitroso related.
Thyroid hormones play a role in the regulation of glutathione S-transferase (GST) expression. Here, co-cultures of rat hepatocytes with bile duct epithelial cells have been used to study the direct effects of both triiodothyronine (T3) and thyroxine (T4) on GST activities and proteins. Because T3 and T4 are poorly water soluble and organic solvents used to dissolve them often interfere with biotransformation pathways, an alternative delivery system namely hydroxypropyl-beta-cyclodextrin (HPBC) has been applied. Appropriate control cultures contained either 0.02 or 0.10% (w/v) HPBC, the concentrations necessary to supply T3 and T4 (10(-9) to 10(-5) M) to the cells, respectively. No effect of the vehicle HPBC on the different GST isoenzyme activities and proteins could be observed. On the contrary, after 10 days of co-culture, T3 and T4 decreased GST protein concentrations as well as GST activities measured by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (broad spectrum), 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (Mu class M1/M2-specific) and 7-chloro-4-nitrobenzo-2-oxa-1,3-diazole (Alpha class A1/2-specific) in a concentration-dependent manner. The Alpha class subunits A1/2 and A3, and the Mu class subunit M2 were mostly affected. No effect was observed on the Pi class enzyme. These findings indicate that a combination of co-cultured hepatocytes with an HPBC-based delivery system for hydrophobic compounds represents a powerful in vitro tool in drug development.
21-aminosteroids ("lazaroids") have recently excited much interest by virtue of their ability to inhibit lipid peroxidation in vitro and to protect against neural injury in vivo. We tested the effect of these compounds in models of heme protein-mediated renal injury in vitro and in vivo. We devised an in vitro model of heme protein-induced toxicity in which renal epithelial cells were exposed to heme proteins for one hour, after which they were subjected to glutathione depletion by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). This model was associated with more than a threefold increase in lipid peroxidation (as measured by thiobarbituric acid reactive substances, TBARS) and a marked reduction in cellular glutathione content. In this model, 21-aminosteroids virtually prevented cytotoxicity as measured by the 51-chromium release assay, and significantly reduced TBARS in a dose-dependent manner. Catalase was partially protective in this model, thereby indicating hydrogen peroxide-dependent toxicity. While pursuing mechanisms accounting for enhanced cellular generation of hydrogen peroxide, we uncovered the first direct evidence that the heme prosthetic group per se directly stimulates cellular generation of hydrogen peroxide; complementing these findings is the remarkable efficacy of 21-aminosteroids in protecting against cytotoxicity induced by hydrogen peroxide. We also tested the capacity of 21-aminosteroids to protect against heme protein-mediated renal injury in vivo. Prior administration of 21-aminosteroids attenuated reductions in GFR and renal blood flow rates following the systemic infusion of methemoglobin in normal rats. 21-aminosteroids also attenuated renal injury observed over three successive days in the glycerol model of heme protein-mediated injury when this model was induced at a higher dose of glycerol (8 ml/kg body wt) but not at a lower dose (5 ml/kg body wt). We conclude that 21-aminosteroids protect against heme protein-mediated renal injury in vitro and in vivo. We suggest that these compounds are potentially useful in such clinical conditions as rhabdomyolysis, intravascular hemolysis and renal injury associated with hemoglobin-based red blood cell substitutes.
Nonsynonymous single nucleotide polymorphisms in glutathione s-transferase pi 1 (GSTP1; Ile/Val 105, Ala/Val 114) have been associated with altered toxicant metabolism in epidemiological cohorts. We explored the impact of GSTP1 genotype on enzyme kinetics and heavy metal inhibition in vitro. Four GSTP1 allozymes (105/114: Ile/Ala, Val/Ala, Ile/Val, Val/Val) were expressed in and purified from Escherichia coli. Enzyme activity assays quantifying the rate of glutathione conjugation with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) revealed significant differences in kinetic parameters depending on genotype (p<0.01). Allozymes with Ile105 had better catalytic efficiency and greater affinity for CDNB (mean ± SEM: Ile105 Ala114 K(m)=0.33 ± 0.07 mM vs. Val105 Ala114 K(m)=1.15 ± 0.07 mM). Inhibition of GSTP1 activity by heavy metals was assessed following treatment with mercury (inorganic-HgCl(2), methylmercury-MeHg), selenium, cadmium, lead, arsenic, and manganese. All allozymes were inhibited by HgCl(2) (IC(50) range: 24.1-172 μM), MeHg (93.9-480 μM), and selenium (43.7-62.8 μM). Genotype significantly influenced the potency of mercury with GSTP1 Ile105 Val114 the least sensitive and Val105 Ala114 the most sensitive to inhibition by HgCl(2) and MeHg. Overall, genotype of two nonsynonymous polymorphisms in GSTP1 influenced enzyme kinetics pertaining to an electrophilic substrate and inhibition by two mercury species.
The use of lactic-acid bacteria (LAB) is effective for preventing and curing immune disorders by activating the immune system in the digestive tract and the consequent immune response in the blood. In this study, LAB and mixed LABs were used in an atopic dermatitis (AD) mouse model. Alleviation of AD was observed based on the change in cytokine level and immunohistochemical staining. An ex vivo test showed that immunoglobulin-E and interleukin (IL)-4 levels were significantly lower in all groups treated with LAB than in the group treated with only 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Results of an in vivo test based on the ex vivo results showed that the scratch score decreased in all groups treated with the LAB and particularly decreased in the group treated with mixed LABs. Additionally, the T helper (Th) 1 cytokines interferon-gamma and IL-12p40 were upregulated by the LAB and mixed-LABs, whereas levels of the Th2 cytokine IL-4 were downregulated in a mouse model of AD-like skin lesions. Furthermore, hematoxylin & eosin and immunohistochemical staining of the dorsal area of the mice in each group showed that AD improved in the LAB-treated groups. These results suggest that LAB and mixed LABs inhibit the development of AD in NC/Nga mice by suppressing the Th2 cell response and increasing the Th1 cell response. Our results indicate that mixed LABs are better than LAB for treating AD-like skin lesions.
The role of reduced glutathione (GSH) in lens membrane function was studied by depleting GSH with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), a reaction catalyzed by GSH-S-transferase. Depletion of GSH in the lens epithelium by 70-90% led to a decrease in uptake and increase in efflux of 86Rb. ATP levels and Na+/K+-ATPase activity were normal while there was a slight decrease in lactate production. The results provide the first direct evidence that depletion of endogenous GSH per se does not lead to inactivation of Na+/K+-ATPase. However, lenses deficient in GSH when challenged with a normally tolerated level of H2O2 showed significant inactivation of membrane ATPase without a further increase in membrane permeability. Pretreatment with CDNB resulted in a 3-fold stimulation of the hexose monophosphate shunt activity which is attributed to the unexpected finding of a significant increase in the level of oxidized glutathione in the lens. It is concluded that deficiency of GSH causes a marked increase in membrane permeability and such lenses are susceptible to oxidative damage resulting in inactivation of the Na+/K+ pump, thus leading to ionic changes and cataract development.
AIM OF THE STUDY ::: Chelidonium majus (CM) has traditionally been used for treatment of various inflammatory diseases including atopic dermatitis (AD). However its action on atopic dermatitis (AD) is unclear. Therefore, we investigated the effect of CM on AD using NC/Nga mice as an AD model. ::: ::: ::: MATERIALS AND METHODS ::: The effect of CM on 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB) induced NC/Nga mice was evaluated by examining skin symptom severity, itching behavior, ear thickness, levels of serum immunoglobulin E (IgE), tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), and interlukin-4 (IL-4), skin histology. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: The CM significantly reduced the total clinical severity score, itching behavior, ear thickness and the level of serum IgE in AD mouse model. CM not only decreased TNF-α but also IL-4. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: These results suggest that CM may be a potential therapeutic modality for AD.
The in vitro interaction of acetic acid and its chlorinated derivatives with rat liver glutathione S-transferases (GST) was studied, using glutathione (GSH) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrates. The investigated compounds inhibited the GST activity in crude extracts in a dose dependent manner. Each of the different GST isoenzymes was inhibited by each of the compounds under study, albeit at very different degrees. Kinetic studies never revealed competitive inhibition kinetics, with GSH nor CDNB as the variable substrate. Titration of remaining GSH in appropriate incubation mixtures revealed no GST catalyzed conjugation with GSH. It is concluded that acetic acid and its chlorinated derivatives interact with GST by direct binding to these proteins. This binding could have a protective function against these compounds.
Prostaglandins (PGs) are lipid mediators, which act as local hormones. PGs are formed in most cells and are synthesized de novo from membrane-released arachidonic acid (AA) upon cell activation. Prostaglandin H synthase (PGHS) –1 or 2, also referred to as COX-1 and COX-2, metabolize AA to PGH2, which is subsequently converted in a cell-specific manner by downstream enzymes to biologically active prostanoids, i.e. PGE2, PGD2, PGF2α, PGI2 or TXA2. PGHS-1 is constitutively expressed in many cells and is mainly involved in housekeeping functions, such as vascular homeostasis, whereas PGHS-2 can be induced by proinflammatory cytokines at sites of inflammation. Prostaglandin E synthase (PGES) specifically catalyzes the conversion of PGH2 to PGE2, which is a biologically potent prostaglandin involved in several pathological conditions; including pain, fever, inflammation and possibly some forms of cancers and neurodegenerative diseases. mPGES-1 was initially identified as a homologue to microsomal glutathione transferase-1 (MGST1) with 37% identity on the amino acid sequence level and referred to as MGST1-like 1 (MGST1L1). Based on the properties of MGST1-L1, regarding size, amino acid sequence, hydropathy and membrane localization, the protein was identified as a member of the MAPEG-superfamily (membraneassociated proteins in eicosanoid and glutathione metabolism). The superfamily consists of 16-18 kDa, integral membrane proteins with typical hydropathy profiles and diverse functions. The MAPEG family comprises six human members, which in addition to mPGES-1 are; 5-lipoxygenase activating protein (FLAP), leukotriene C4 synthase (LTC4S), MGST1, MGST2 and MGST3. MGST1 -2 and -3 are glutathione transferases as well as glutathione-dependent peroxidases, while FLAP and LTC4S are crucial for leukotriene biosynthesis. Human mPGES-1 was cloned and characterized as a 16 kDa, inducible GSH-dependent microsomal PGE synthase. Northern dot blot analysis of mPGES-1 mRNA demonstrated a low expression in most tissues, medium expression in reproductive organs and a high expression in two cancer cell lines (A549 and HeLa). A549 cells had been used earlier as a model system to study PGHS-2 induction by the proinflammatory cytokine IL-1β and mPGES-1 was also induced by IL-1β in these cells. A protein of similar size was detected in microsomes from sheep vesicular glands, which are known to contain a highly efficient microsomal PGES, indicating that mPGES-1 was the long-sought membrane bound PGES. Furthermore, a time study of PGHS-2 and mPGES-1 expression revealed a coordinate induction of these enzymes, which was correlated with increased PGES activity in the microsomal fraction. Tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) also induced mPGES-1 in these cells and dexamethasone was found to counteract the effect of these cytokines on mPGES-1 induction. A method based on RP-HPLC and UV-detection was developed to efficiently quantify PGES activity. A small set of potential mPGES-1 inhibitors were tested and NS-398, Sulindac sulfide and LTC4 were found to inhibit PGES activity with IC50-values of 20 μM, 80 μM and 5 μM, respectively. The human mPGES-1 gene structure was investigated. The mPGES-1 gene span a region of approximately 15 kb, is divided into three exons and is localized on chromosome 9q34.3. A 682 bp fragment directly upstream of the translation start site exhibited promoter activity when transfected in A549 cells. The putative promoter is GC-rich, lacks a TATA box at a functional site and contains numerous potential transcription factor binding-sites. Two GC-boxes, two tandem Barbie-boxes and an aryl hydrocarbon response element were identified. The putative promoter region of mPGES-1 was transcriptionally active and reporter constructs were regulated by IL-1β and phenobarbital. The expression of mPGES-1 was investigated in synovial tissues from patients suffering from rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Primary synovial cells obtained from patients with RA were treated with IL-1β or TNF-α. Both cytokines were found to induce mPGES-1 mRNA from low basal levels to maximum levels after 24 hours and the induction by IL-1β was inhibited by dexamethasone in a dose-dependent manner. The protein expression of mPGES-1 was also induced by IL-1β with a linear increase up to 72 h. In contrast, the PGHS-2 induction demonstrated an earlier peak expression (4-8 h). Furthermore, the protein expression of mPGES-1 was correlated with increased microsomal PGES activity. In these biochemical experiments any significant contribution of cytosolic PGES or other cytosolic or non-inducible membrane bound PGE synthases was ruled out. A purification protocol for mPGES-1 was developed. Human mPGES-1 was expressed with a histidine tag in Eschericha coli, solubilized by Triton X-100 and purified by a combination of hydroxyapatite and immobilized metal affinity chromatography. mPGES-1 catalyzed a rapid GSH-dependent conversion of PGH2 to PGE2 (170 μmol/min mg). The enzyme, also displayed a high GSH-dependent activity against PGG2, forming 15-hydroperoxy PGE2 (250 μmol/min mg). In addition, mPGES-1 possessed several other activities; glutathione-dependent peroxidase activity towards cumene hydroperoxide, 5-HpETE and 15hydroperoxy-PGE2, as well as conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) to GSH. These activities likely reflect the relationship with other MAPEG enzymes. Two-dimensional crystals of purified mPGES-1 were obtained and a 10 A projection map was determined by electron crystallography. Hydrodynamic studies were also performed on the mPGES-1-Triton X-100 complex to investigate the oligomeric state of the protein. Electron crystallography and hydrodynamic studies independently demonstrated a trimeric organization of mPGES-1. Together with other studies published to date, mPGES-1 has been verified biologically as a drug target and the next step in this validation process requires specific inhibitors to be tested in animal disease models.
Incubation of 4-(fluorosulfonyl)benzoic acid (4-FSB), a xenobiotic substrate analogue, with the 4-4 isozyme of rat liver glutathione S-transferase at pH 7.5 and 25 degrees C results in a time-dependent inactivation of the enzyme. The rate of inactivation exhibits a nonlinear dependence on 4-FSB concentration from 0.50 to 7.85 mM, with kmax = 0.082 min-1 and a KI of 1.95 mM. Nearly 1 mol of reagent/mol of enzyme subunit is incorporated when the enzyme is maximally inactivated. Protection against incorporation and inactivation is provided by bromosulfophthalein, a competitive inhibitor with respect to the hydrophobic substrate, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), suggesting that the reaction occurs in the binding site of the xenobiotic substrate. Fractionation by high-performance liquid chromatography of a tryptic digest of inactivated enzyme yields a single, modified, 14-residue peptide containing Tyr115 as the altered amino acid. Modified and control enzymes have comparable affinities for glutathione, as indicated by fluorescence titration. In contrast, as distinguished from the control enzyme, modified enzyme does not adsorb to a column of an agarose-linked Cibacron Blue derivative, indicating that it has lost its ability to bind a hydrophobic substrate analogue. These results are supported by kinetic characteristics of modified and control enzymes: upon modification of the enzyme with 4-FSB, the apparent Km for glutathione is unchanged, while the apparent Km for CDNB increases dramatically from 193 to 1690 microM. When the reaction of 4-FSB with enzyme is monitored, the final percent residual activity is found to be dependent on the substrate used in the assay: 11% for CDNB, 20% for ethacrynic acid, 2.5% for trans-stilbene oxide, and 2% for trans-4-phenyl-3-butene-2-one. Analysis of the kinetics of modified enzyme suggests that Tyr115 of glutathione S-transferase, isozyme 4-4, contributes to xenobiotic substrate binding and, when certain types of substrates are employed, is involved in catalysis.
Human glutathione transferase P1-1 (GSTP1-1) is polymorphic in amino acid residue 105, positioned in the substrate binding H-site. To elucidate the role of this residue an extensive characterization of GSTP1-1/Ile105 and GSTP1-1/Val105 was performed. Mutant enzymes with altered volume and hydrophobicity of residue 105, GSTP1-1/Ala105 and GSTP1-1/Trp105, were constructed and included in the study. Steady-state kinetic parameters and specific activities were determined using a panel of electrophilic substrates, with the aim of covering different types of reaction mechanisms. Analysis of the steady-state kinetic parameters indicates that the effect of the substitution of the amino acid in position 105 is highly dependent on substrate used. When 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was used as substrate a change in the side-chain of residue 105 seemed primarily to cause changes in the KM value, while the kcat value was not distinctively affected. With other substrates, such as 7-chloro-4-nitrobenzo-2-oxa-1,3-diazole and ethacrynic acid both kcat and KM values were altered by the substitution of amino acid 105. The constant for formation of the sigma-complex between 1,3, 5-trinitrobenzene and glutathione was shown to be dependent upon the volume of the amino acid in position 105. The nature of the amino acid in position 105 was also shown to affect the thermal stability of the enzyme at 50 degrees C, indicating an important role for this residue in the stabilization of the enzyme. The GSTP1-1/Ile105 variant was approximately two to three times more stable than the Val105 variant as judged by their half-lives. The presence of glutathione in the incubation buffer afforded a threefold increase in the half-lives of the enzymes. Thus, the thermal stability of the enzyme and depending on substrate, both KM values and turnover numbers are influenced by substitutions in position 105 of GSTP1-1.
The reaction between potassium isopropoxide and 1-chloro-(3) or 1-iodo-(4) 2,4-dinitrobenzene has been studied in propan-2-ol-benzene (1 : 1) with and without added crown ethers dicyclohexano-18-crown-6 (1), and 18-crown-6 (2). Substantial amounts of 2,4-dinitrophenol are formed upon addition of the crown ethers together with the expected 1-isopropoxy-2,4-dinitrobenzene derived from normal nucleophilic substitution. The kinetic order in base in the presence of the potassium complexing agents is less than unity. The radical anion of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene has been identified in the system containing (1). These results are explained in terms of the intervention of a nucleophilic-radical reaction pathway of the SRN1 type leading to the phenol.
The effects of 3-methylcholanthrene, butylated hydroxyanisole, and phenobarbital on the expression of glutathione S-transferase (GST, EC 2.5.1.18) were examined in the human parasite Schistosoma mansoni. GST specific activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene increased by 170% in parasites recovered from mice injected with 3-methylcholanthrene and 230% in parasites recovered from mice maintained on a diet containing butylated hydroxyanisole. These increases in specific enzyme activity were paralleled by accumulation of mRNA hybridizing to pGT16.4, a cDNA clone that encodes the most abundant GST subunit, SmGST-3. Northern hybridization analysis showed a 5-fold increase in mRNA hybridizing to pGT16.4 72 h after exposure to 3-methylcholanthrene, a 10-fold increase after 12 days exposure to butylated hydroxyanisole, and a 6-fold increase 16 h after treatment with phenobarbital. In contrast, no accumulation of mRNA hybridizing to either of two other cDNA clones that encode the SmGST-4 and SmGST-6 subunits was detected. Hybrid select translation using pGT16.4 combined with reverse-phase high-pressure liquid chromatographic analysis demonstrated that in addition to SmGST-3 mRNA, the clone also hybridized to mRNA species encoding the SmGST-1 subunit, a member of the same isoenzyme family. High-pressure liquid chromatographic analysis of GST affinity purified from butylated hydroxyanisole-exposed parasites revealed a 2.5-fold increase in the concentration of SmGST-1 and SmGST-3 present compared with an equivalent amount of tissue from control organisms. There was no change, however, in the SmGST-1 to SmGST-3 ratio (1:6), indicating that both subunits were induced to the same extent by this agent. The results of these studies suggest that alterations in GST expression may influence the parasite's survival within the host environment.
The kinetics of reactions of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene with aniline and several substituted aromatic amines, B, in toluene shows a quadratic dependence of the second-order rate constant, kA, on [B], which is preserved even in the presence of increasing amounts of dimethylaniline, while the reaction with N-methylaniline shows a linear dependence of kA vs [B]. All these results are interpreted by the "dimer nucleophile" mechanism, and confirmed by the effects of a non-nucleophilic hydrogen bond acceptor tertiary amine which show the relevance of the structure of the nucleophile and the role of mixed aggregates in defining the mechanisms of aromatic nucleophilic substitutions with amines in aprotic solvents.
Fish hepatic glutathione transferases are connected with the elimination of intracellular pollutants and detoxification of organic micro-pollutants in their aquatic ecosystem. The two-substrate steady state kinetic mechanism of Silver catfish (Synodontis eupterus) major hepatic glutathione transferases purified to apparent homogeneity was explored. The enzyme was dimeric enzyme with a monomeric size of 25.6 kDa. Initial-velocity studies and Product inhibition patterns by methyl glutathione and chloride with respect to GSH-CDNB; GSH--nitrophenylacetate; and GSH-Ethacrynic acid all conforms to a rapid equilibrium sequential random Bi Bi kinetic mechanism rather than steady state sequential random Bi Bi kinetic. ␣ was 2.96 ± 0.35 for the model. The pH profile of V max /K M (with saturating 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and variable GSH concentrations) showed apparent pKa value of 6.88 and 9.86. Inhibition studies as a function of inhibitor concentration show that the enzyme is a homodimer and near neutral GST. The enzyme poorly conjugates 4-hydroxylnonenal and cumene hydroperoxide and may not be involved in oxidative stress protection. The seGST is unique and overwhelmingly shows characteristics similar to those of homodimeric class Pi GSTs, as was indicated by its kinetic mechanism, substrate specificity and inhibition studies. The rate-limiting step, probably the product release, of the reaction is viscosity-dependent and is consequential if macro-viscosogen or micro-viscosogen.
Abbreviations: Caco-2, human colon adenocarcinoma cell line; CDNB, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene; DMSO, dimethyl sulfoxide; GSH, glutathione; GST, glutathione S-transferase; hGSTA1-1, human glutathione S-transferase isoenzyme A1-1; IPTG, isopropyl-b-D-thiogalactopyranoside; MDR, multiple drug resistance; SM, supplementary material.
Abstract The formation of the glutathione S-conjugate of monochlorobimane (GSH-bimane) in human colon adenocarcinoma cells was identified by HPLC-fluorimetry and its transport from the cells was found to be temperature-sensitive, saturable and ATP-dependent. The apparent K m and V max values were 2.4 ± 0.5 nmol GSH-bimane/10 6 cells and 0.5 ± 0.1 nmol GSH-bimane/min per 10 6 cells, respectively. This active transport of GSH-bimane was inhibited by low micromolar concentrations of classical uncouplers of oxidative phosphorylation, namely carbonylcyanide p -trifluoromethoxyphenylhydrazone (FCCP), carbonylcyanide m -chlorophenylhydrazone (CCCP) and 2,4-dinitrophenol (DNP). The efflux of GSH-bimane was competitively inhibited by chlorambucil (CMB) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), two other substrates of GST. This study demonstrates the presence and kinetic measurements of the glutathione S-conjugate export (GS-X) pump in human colon cancer cells, an export pump whose function has been implicated in the phenomenon of multidrug resistance.
The status of cytochrome P450-dependent oxidative biotransformation of aminopyrine and benzo(a)pyrene (Phase I reaction) and glutathione S-transferase (GST) catalyzed conjugation with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) (Phase II reaction) was evaluated in diabetic rats sacrificed 3 weeks after alloxan treatment (2 doses of 75 mg/kg at an interval of 48 h, i.p.). Alloxan treatment caused 3-4 fold increase in blood glucose level and 68% rise in glycosylated hemoglobin content. There were significant decreases in the activities of the hepatic aminopyrine N-demethylase and aromatic hydrocarbon hydroxylase (AHH) in diabetic rats as compared with the controls. The activity of GST was also significantly reduced in liver and kidney, whereas remained unchanged in the brain. These results suggest that a prolonged diabetic state depresses the metabolism of xenobiotics and probably of some endogenous compounds as well in liver and kidney.
Hepatic cytosolic glutathione transferase activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate was induced by 3-methylcholanthrene or β-naphthoflavone in C57BL/6N inbred mice and in (C57BL/6N)(DBA/2N)F1 but not in DBA/2N inbred mice. High doses of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin induced the transferase activity in both C57BL/6N and DBA/2N mice. The glutathione transferase activity with benzo[a]pyrene 4,5-oxide as substrate was induced by 3-methylcholanthrene in C57BL/6N but not DBA/2N mice. The transferase activity with styrene 7,8-oxide as substrate was different from either of the above activities in that about twofold induction by 3-methylcholanthrene occurred in both C57BL/6N and DBA/2N mice. Among progeny from the (C57BL/6N)(DBA/2N)F1 x DBA/2N backcross, however, no association was found between the transferase induction process by 3-methylcholanthrene and the presence of the Ah receptor [i.e., inducible aryl hydrocarbon (benzo[a]pyrene) hydroxylase activity]. It is therefore concluded that induction of glutathione transferase activity by polycyclic aromatic compounds is mediated by a gene(s) distinct from the Ah regulatory genes. These data emphasize the importance of examining progeny from the appropriate backcross before making conclusions about the genetic linkage of any two expressed traits.
Mechanisms of hepatic glutathione and glutathione S-conjugate efflux were investigated in isolated hepatocytes and perfused liver of the little skate (Raja erinacea). Glutathione was released by isolated skate hepatocytes at a rate of 0.12 +/- 0.03 nmol.hr-1.(mg protein)-1. In the perfused liver, glutathione concentrations in bile were high (approximately 0.7 mM) compared to hepatic tissue levels (0.61 +/- 0.11 mumol.g-1). During the first hour of perfusion, the biliary glutathione excretion rate was 3 nmol.hr-1.(g liver)-1, whereas glutathione accumulated in the recirculating perfusate at a rate of only 1.5 nmol.hr-1.(g liver)-1. Release of glutathione by isolated hepatocytes and perfused liver was not affected by the addition of acivicin, an inhibitor of gamma-glutamyltransferase (EC 2.3.2.2), to cell suspension medium or liver perfusate. 1-Chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was taken up by isolated hepatocytes, conjugated to glutathione, and released as S-(2,4-dinitrophenyl) (DNP)-glutathione. After infusion of 0.5 mumol CDNB in perfused liver, S-DNP-glutathione was concentrated in bile (0.5 mM) and was associated with choleresis. S-DNP-Conjugates of cysteinylglycine, cysteine and N-acetylcysteine, were also found in bile, suggesting intrahepatic breakdown of S-DNP-glutathione and subsequent acetylation of the resulting cysteine conjugate to form the mercapturic acid, S-DNP-N-acetylcysteine. This mercapturic acid accounted for 31% of the total S-DNP-conjugates collected in bile. In contrast, neither S-DNP-glutathione nor other S-DNP-conjugates were detected in the perfusate (less than 0.5 microM). These findings demonstrate that biliary excretion is the predominant route for efflux of glutathione and a glutathione S-conjugate from skate liver. The results also identify an intrahepatic pathway for mercapturic acid biosynthesis facilitated by biliary glutathione S-conjugate excretion.
The reaction of morpholine with 2,4-dinitrophenyl phenyl ether is base-catalysed in all the solvents investigated. The values of k3/k2 provide information about the mechanism of the uncatalysed decomposition of the intermediate formed in nucleophilic aromatic substitution in solvents of high dielectric constant.The reaction of morpholine with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in ethyl acetate is not base-catalysed. Comments are made on the mechanism of base-catalysed nucleophilic aromatic substitution in solvents of low dielectric constant and basicity.
Glutathione may be linked to an agarose matrix which has been activated by treatment with epichlorhydrin. The resulting resin displayed group selectivity for the glutathione S-transferases of the housefly Musca domestica (L). The isoenzymes of low isoelectric point, which have little activity with substrates other than 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, bound strongly to this matrix and were eluted with 10 mM glutathione at pH 7.4. On the other hand, the group of isoenzymes of higher isoelectric point, showing activity with other substrates such as 3,4-dichloronitrobenzene, did not bind. These isoenzymes did bind to a sulfobromophthalein-glutathione conjugate immobilized on agarose and could be eluted with 5 mM sulfobromophthalein at pH 7.4. The immobilized glutathione resin bound rat liver glutathione S-transferase subunits from all three molecular weight classes.
A triple mutant of rat liver glutathione S-transferase 3-3 that has all three cysteine residues replaced with serine (CallS) and a quadruple mutant with a Tyr-115 to phenylalanine substitution on CallS (CallSY115F) were reacted with 2-(S-glutathionyl)-3,5,6-trichloro-1,4-benzoquinone (GS-1,4-TCBQ). The modified proteins were analysed on a triple-quadrupole mass spectrometer equipped with an electrospray ionization source. At an enzyme: GS-1,4-TCBQ ratio of 1:10, the enzymes were modified at multiple sites. Covalent attachment of a single inhibitor on to the protein was achieved by lowering the enzyme: GS-1,4-TCBQ ratio to 1:1. Results from m.s. analyses suggest that the inhibitor on the CallSY115F mutant exists as a glutathionyl dichlorobenzoquinone derivative. The modifiers of the CallS mutants are glutathionyl monochlorobenzoquinone derivatives. Therefore, GS-1,4-TCBQ reacts at a single site on CallSY115F, but probably cross-links two regions on wild-type and CallS mutant. To confirm our observation, CallS was modified with 1-chloro2,4-dinitrobenzene, which specifically labels Tyr-115, before reacting with GS-1,4-TCBQ. The inhibitor formed a glutathionyl dichlorobenzoquinone adduct on the dinitrophenyl-CallS mutant. In addition, the benzoquinone derivative on the protein can be partially removed by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Peptide mapping and sequencing analysis of the GS-1,4-TCBQ-modified CallS mutant revealed that the C-terminal 16-amino-acid fragment is labelled. Molecular modelling suggests the C(5) and C(6) on the benzoquinone ring of the inhibitor interact with the oxygen atoms of Tyr-115 and Ser-209 respectively.
Significant increases in activities of epoxide hydrolase, UDP-glucuronosyltransferase, and glutathione S-transferase, and marked reductions in cytochrome P-450 mixed-function oxidase systems occur in hyperplastic nodules induced in rat liver by chemical mutagens. In contrast, activities of both oxidative (Phase I) and conjugative (Phase II) enzymes are decreased in hepatocellular carcinomas induced by peroxisome proliferators. The present work compares alterations induced by chemical mutagens or peroxisome proliferators with changes in enzyme activities that occur in primary and secondary hepatic tumors in man. The above activities, along with beta-glucuronidase and arylsulfatase, were measured in liver samples from 6 normal livers obtained at immediate autopsy, and liver specimens obtained by surgical biopsy from the following patients: 8 with hepatomas, 5 with nonmetastatic colorectal carcinomas, and 14 with metastatic colorectal carcinomas. Cytochromes P-450MP and P-450NF in addition to epoxide hydrolase were measured by immunoquantitation. Enzymes involved in conjugation reactions were either assayed fluorometrically (UDP-glucuronosyltransferase, beta-glucuronidase, sulfotransferase, and sulfatase) or spectrophotometrically (glutathione S-transferase) using umbelliferyl substrates or 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Secondary hepatic tumors showed no significant change in drug-metabolizing enzymes, in contrast to primary hepatomas, which displayed decreases in all of the measured drug metabolizing enzymes. Arylsulfatase was markedly depressed in primary hepatomas (14% of normal values). Thus, activities of drug-metabolizing enzymes in human primary tumors resemble those associated with altered hepatic foci induced by peroxisome proliferators such as ciprofibrate. The marked decreases in sulfatase that occurred in primary but not in secondary human tumors suggest that sulfation of endogenous compounds and xenobiotics may differ in patients with primary and secondary hepatic tumors.
A series of comparative analysis including bioassay,biochemical studies to the locust collected from Tianjin beidagang and Hebei cangzhou were conducted.The bioassay indicated that Tianjin Beidagang population was tolerance to malathion(tolerance ratio=13.2).The carboxylesterases(CarEs) specific activity with α-naphthyl butyrate(α-NB) and β-naphthyl acetate(β-NA) substrates of the Hebei Cangzhou population was significantly higher compared with Tianjin Beidagang population.While the α-naphthyl acetate(α-NA) was used as substrate,the significant difference of CarEs specific activity between two populations was not detected.The specific activity of glutathione S-transferases(GSTs) of Hebei Cangzhou population was significantly higher than these of Tianjin Beidagang population when 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene(CDNB) was used as substrate.All these results suggested that the observed tolerance to malathion in the Tianjin Beidagang population was not conferred by the CarEs and GSTs,but possibly related to the reduction of the target sensitivity.
Drug metabolizing enzyme activities have been determined in cultured porcine urinary bladder epithelial cells (PUBEC) in order to evaluate this system as an in vitro model for studies of urinary bladder carcinogens. Activities of several phase I and II enzymes were measured in cells cultured for various periods and compared with the activities determined in freshly isolated PUBEC. Prostaglandin H synthase mediated production of prostaglandin E2 was found both in freshly isolated and in cultured PUBEC, whereas cytochrome P450 1A1-associated EROD activity was only detectable in freshly isolated bladder cells. The latter activity was not inducible by benz(a)anthracene or 3-methylcholanthrene in PUBEC cultures. N-acetyltransferase (NAT) activity measured with p-aminobenzoic acid, a diagnostic substrate for human NAT-1, was stable and even higher during the culture period compared to freshly isolated cells. In contrast, isoniazid (a substrate for NAT-2) was not acetylated either in fresh or cultured PUBEC. Glutathione S-transferases activity determined with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene decreased gradually to 50% after 1 week and to 20% after 4 weeks in culture compared to fresh cells. A similar decline was also observed for UDP-glucuronyltransferase activities measured with 1-naphthol. In accordance with the reported lack of sulfotransferases in pigs, no sulfation of 1-naphthol or 2-naphthylamine was detected in PUBEC. Our results show that cultured porcine urinary bladder epithelial cells maintain several enzyme activities required for the biotransformation of xenobiotics. In future investigations on the mechanism of action of bladder carcinogens PUBEC cultures may thus provide a useful in vitro model for this target tissue.
Abstract Levels of the tripeptide glutathione (GSH) and the activity of glutathione S -transferases were investigated in S9 fractions of rats and mice and in Salmonella typhymurium tester strains TA1535, TA100, TA1538 and TA98. The S9 and Salmonella typhimurium tester strains had high levels of glutathione. Compared with S9, the activity of GSH S -transferases was lower in the bacteria. However, electrophiles such as 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), diethyl maleate and styrene oxide were effectively bound to bacterial GSH. The mutagenicity of the direct mutagen CDNB was drastically lowered in presence of S9 fractions but not in presence of microsomes. A comparable decrease was obtained when microsomal supernatant, which contains GSH and GSH S -transferases, was added to the microsomes. Addition of GSH in excess completely abolished mutagenicity of CDNB. These results demonstrate that the conjugation of electrophiles with GSH mediated by the S9 fraction or the bacterial tester strains represents an important detoxication mechanism which may influence the results obtained with the Salmonella typhimurium mammalian-microsome mutagenicity test.
The oxidation of protein sulphydryls to disulphides and their reduction back to sulphydryls is an early cellular response to oxidative stress. Hydrogen-peroxide-mediated oxidation of class-pi glutathione S-transferase results in the formation of disulphide bonds, which inhibits its catalytic function yet allows it to retain its non-substrate-ligand-binding properties. The overall hydrodynamic volume of the oxidised class-pi glutathione S-transferase type-1 homodimer (GSTP1-1) is decreased, and its tertiary-structural and secondary-structural elements are changed with respect to the native protein. Structural differences appear to be prominent in domain 1 of oxidised GSTP1-1, in that the exposure of both tryptophan residues is increased, while the electric potential about one of them is altered. Treatment of the oxidised protein with dithiothreitol or glutathione restores its enzymatic capabilities, albeit with lower specific activities for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and ethacrynic acid. The hydrophobic binding site (H-site) for electrophilic substrates is negatively affected in that the K(m) and catalytic-efficiency values are diminished significantly with respect to those values obtained for the native protein. The dithiothreitol-treated oxidised GSTP1-1 is able to regain its overall hydrodynamic volume; however, both its secondary-structural and tertiary-structural elements remain modified with respect to the native protein, as do both tryptophanyl environments. Furthermore, the oxidised glutathione S-transferase and dithiothreitol-treated oxidised glutathione S-transferase are less thermostable (tM = 55.5 degrees C and 56.3 degrees C, respectively) than the native enzyme (tM = 59 degrees C). These results indicate that the class-pi glutathione S-transferase is unable to regain its native conformation after oxidative inactivation.
Preliminary experiments confirmed the work of others showing that the total glutathione peroxidase (GSH-px) activity of rat liver supernatant fraction may be resolved into two peaks of activity (peaks I and II) by gel filtration, and that peak I is the selenium-containing enzyme and peak II is another peroxidase indistinguishable from glutathione S-transferase (GST). In selenium and vitamin E deficiency, the total activity of the GSH-px became very low, and the total activity of GST with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrate was enhanced. Study of the time course of these changes as deficiency progressed indicated that the stimulus for the rise in GST (CDNB) activity was the fall in GSH-px activity which preceded it. The peroxidase activity of GST was found to reside only in the GST AA, B and B2 forms of the enzyme, which were shown to be respectively a homodimer of the Yc subunit, a homodimer of the Ya subunit and a heterodimer of the YaYc subunit. As vitamin E and selenium deficiency progressed, the B2 and AA forms of the enzyme showed enhanced activity, which was interpreted as implying that the Yc subunit of the enzyme becomes enriched as a consequence of the withdrawal of selenium from the animal's diet. Densitometric measurements of the Yc and Ya subunits confirmed that the amount of the Yc subunit was nearly doubled in selenium deficiency, relative to the Ya subunit.
Using extracts from suspension-cultured cells of soybean (Glycine max cv. Mandarin) as a source of active enzymes, the activities of glutathione transferases (GSTs) catalysing the conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and selective herbicides were determined to be in the order CDNB fomesafen > metolachlor = acifluorfen > chlorimuron-ethyl. GST activities showed a thiol dependence in a substrate-specific manner. Thus, GST activities toward acifluorfen and fomesafen were greater when homoglutathione (hGSH), the endogenously occurring thiol in soybean, was used as the co-substrate rather than glutathione (GSH). Compared with GSH, hGSH addition either reduced or had no effect on GST activities toward other substrates. In the absence of enzyme, the rates of hGSH conjugation with acifluorfen, chlorimuron-ethyl and fomesafen were negligible, suggesting that rapid hGSH conjugation in soybean must be catalysed by GSTs. GST activities were subsequently determined in 14-day-old plants of soybean and a number of annual grass and broadleaf weeds. GST activities of the plants were then related to observed sensitivities to post-emergence applications of the four herbicides. When enzyme activity was expressed on a mg -1 protein basis, all grass weeds and Abutilon theophrasti contained considerably higher GST activity toward CDNB than soybean. With fomesafen as the substrate, GST activities were determined to be in the order soybean Echinochloa crus-galli > Digitaria sanguinalis > Sorghum halepense = Setaria faberi with none of the broadleaf weeds showing any activity. This order related well to the observed selectivity of fomesafen, with the exception of A. theophrasti, which was partially tolerant to the herbicide. Using metolachlor as the substrate the order of the GST activities was soybean > A. theophrasti S. halepense > Amaranthus retroflexus > Ipomoea hederacea, with the remaining species showing no activity. GST activities toward metolachlor correlated well with the selectivity of the herbicide toward the broadleaf weeds but not toward the grass weeds. Acifluorfen and chlorimuron-ethyl were selectively active on these species, but GST activities toward these herbicides could not be detected in crude extracts from whole plants.
Abstract 1-Chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 1-fluoro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 1,3-dinitrobenzene form Meisenheimer complexes with tetra-n-butylammonium fluoride and alumina supported alkali metal fluorides. Both kinetically controlled and thermodynamically controlled complexes are observed.
Glutathione S-transferases are involved in phase II detoxification processes and catalyze the nucleophilic attack of the tripeptide glutathione on a wide range of endobiotic and xenobiotic electrophilic substrates. The rho-class glutathione S-transferase from Laternula elliptica was overexpressed in Escherichia coli, purified and crystallized with two substrates: glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). Diffraction data were collected to 2.20 A resolution for the glutathione-complex crystals and to 2.00 A resolution for the CDNB-complex crystals using a synchrotron-radiation source. Both crystals belonged to the C-centred monoclinic space group C2. The unit-cell parameters for the CDNB-complex crystals were a = 89.66, b = 59.27, c = 55.45 A, beta = 124.52 degrees . The asymmetric unit contained one molecule, with a corresponding V(M) of 2.36 A(3) Da(-1) and a solvent content of 47.8%.
Abstract Post-microsomal supernatants from Drosophila melanogaster and rat liver homogenates were investigated with respect to their glutathione S -transferase (GST) activity. It appeared that the Drosophila transferase did not conjugate the epoxides styrene-7,8-oxide and 1,2 epoxy( p -nitrophenoxy)-propane. Attempts to isolate the Drosophila GST isozymes by means of the well-documented method for the purification of the rat liver transferases failed, because the Drosophila transferases did not bind to CM-cellulose. Purification by subsequent ion exchange on DEAE-cellulose, molecular sieving on Sephadex G-100 and hydroxylapatite chromatography, revealed three active fractions from Drosophila cytosol and five active fractions from rat liver cytosol, using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as the electrophilic substrate. None of the Drosophila active fractions catalyzed the conjugation of glutathione with the epoxides mentioned. It is concluded that there are important differences between the GST systems of both species, resulting in differences in the metabolic fate of chemicals that are substrates for glutathione conjugation. This has to be taken into account in the evaluation of genotoxicity testing in Drosophila of potentially harmful compounds.
Abstract 5,5'-Dithiobis(2-nitrobenzoate) (DTNB) is reduced in mitochondrial suspensions to 5-mercapto-2-nitrobenzoate (MNB) by 3-hydroxybutyrate and isocitrate. Although most of the MNB produced is found in the suspension medium, there is also some within the particles. The amount of MNB found in these fractions varies with the DTNB concentration used and is much lower if mitochondrial glutathione (GSH) is depleted with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. If hydroxybutyrate is present, the reduction of DTNB is increased by ATP and oligomycin. The pellet contains only a little MNB and GSH but these are considerably elevated by antimycin and rotenone as well as by ATP and oligomycin. If isocitrate is present, the reduction of DTNB is greatly stimulated by valinomycin, triethyltin and, to a lesser extent, oligomycin. MNB in the pellet falls and GSH concentrations are unchanged. The results suggest that with hydroxybutyrate (an NAD reducing substrate), the rate of reduction of DTNB is limited by the rate of regeneration of GSH while with isocitrate (an NADP reducing substrate) it is limited by the rate of export of MNB from the matrix.
Abstract Kinetic properties of purified Clarias gariepinus glutathione transferase (CgGST) was studied in the presence of Ficoll 70, Polyethylene glycol (PEG) 6000, bovine serum albumin (BSA) and in dilute solution. This was done to mimic the cytosol thereby unraveling the actual mechanism of detoxication involving glutathione transferase (GST) in the crowded intracellular milieu. CgGST from the liver of Clarias gariepinus was purified to homogeneity by affinity chromatography on glutathione (GSH) - agarose. Initial-velocity study was performed by varying the concentrations of GSH at various fixed concentrations of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and vice-versa. Data obtained were fitted to the three equations representing random-ordered, compulsory-ordered and ping-pong mechanisms to obtain kinetic parameters. Product inhibition studies using sodium chloride (NaCl) was done by varying the concentrations of NaCl and CDNB at a fixed concentration of GSH and vice-versa. Data obtained were fitted to three equations representing competitive, non-competitive and uncompetitive inhibitions to obtain the inhibition constants (KiGSH and KiCDNB). Optimal temperature of CgGST activity was 20 °C both in dilute and crowded solutions. Maximum velocity (Vmax) in dilute solution was decreased, while KmGSH and KmCDNB were increased in the presence of the crowding agents. Turnover number (kcat), catalytic efficiency - kcat/KmGSH, kcat/KmCDNB and inhibition constants – (KiGSH and KiCDNB) were reduced in crowded solutions. Mechanism of catalysis was steady – state random sequential in both dilute and crowded solutions. The study concluded that although the catalytic efficiency of the enzyme was reduced in crowded solution, mechanism of catalysis remains the same in both crowded and dilute solutions.
Rationale:Androgenetic alopecia is not considered a life threatening disease but can have serious impacts on the patient's psychosocial life. Genetic, hormonal, and environmental factors are considered responsible for the presence of androgenetic alopecia. Recent literature reports have proved the presence of inflammation and also of oxidative stress at the level of dermal papilla cells of patients with androgenetic alopecia Objective:We have considered of interest to measure the oxidative stress parameters in the blood of patients with androgenetic alopecia Methods and results:27 patients with androgenetic alopecia and 25 age-matched controls were enrolled in the study. Trolox Equivalent Antioxidant Capacity (TEAC), malondialdehyde (MDA) and total thiols levels were measured on plasma samples. Superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), catalase (CAT) activities, and also non protein thiols levels together with TEAC activity were determined on erythrocytes samples No statistically significant changes were observed for TEAC erythrocytes, non-protein thiols, GPx and CAT activities. Significantly decreased (p<0.01) SOD activity was found in patients with androgenetic alopecia. For plasma samples decreased TEAC activity (p<0.001), increased MDA levels (p<0.001) and no change in total thiols concentration were found in patients when compared with the controls. Discussions:Decreased total antioxidant activity and increased MDA levels found in plasma samples of patients with androgenetic alopecia are indicators of oxidative stress presence in these patients. Significantly decreased SOD activity but no change in catalase, glutathione peroxidase, non protein thiols level and total antioxidant activity in erythrocytes are elements which suggest the presence of a compensatory mechanism for SOD dysfunction in red blood cells of patients with androgenetic alopecia. ::: ::: ::: ABBREVIATIONS ::: AAG = androgenetic alopecia, MDA = malondialdehyde, SOD = superoxide dismutase, CAT = catalase, GPx = glutathione peroxidase, GSH = glutathione, GST = glutathione transferase, SH = thiols, TEAC = trolox equivalent antioxidant capacity, ABTS = 2,2'-azino-bis (3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulfonic acid), CDNB = 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene.
The title compound was prepared by the reaction of 4-amino-5-(2-ethoxyphenyl)-2H-1,2,4-triazole-3(4H)-thione (0.002 mol) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (0.002 mol) in the mixed solution of triethylamine (10 ml) and ethanol (20 ml). The triazole was synthesized following the literature method of [1] . The desired product was obtained by filtration, drying and recrystallization from ethanol. Single crystals suitable for ray data collection were obtained by slow evaporation of amethanol solution.
Keywords: androgenetic alopecia, oxidative stress, antioxidants, erythrocytes, trolox equivalent antioxidant capacity Abbreviations: AAG = androgenetic alopecia, MDA = malondialdehyde, SOD = superoxide dismutase, CAT = catalase, GPx = glutathione peroxidase, GSH = glutathione, GST = glutathione transferase, SH = thiols, TEAC = trolox equivalent antioxidant capacity, ABTS = 2,2'-azino-bis (3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulfonic acid), CDNB = 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene
Reaction of rat liver glutathione S-transferase, isozyme 1-1, with 4-(fluorosulfonyl)benzoic acid (4-FSB), a xenobiotic substrate analogue, results in a time-dependent inactivation of the enzyme to a final value of 35% of its original activity when assayed at pH 6.5 with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrate. The rate of inactivation exhibits a nonlinear dependence on the concentration of 4-FSB from 0.25 mM to 9 mM, characterized by a KI of 0.78 mM and kmax of 0.011 min-1. S-Hexylglutathione or the xenobiotic substrate analogue, 2,4-dinitrophenol, protects against inactivation of the enzyme by 4-FSB, whereas S-methylglutathione has little effect on the reaction. These experiments indicate that reaction occurs within the active site of the enzyme, probably in the binding site of the xenobiotic substrate, close to the glutathione binding site. Incorporation of [3,5-3H]-4-FSB into the enzyme in the absence and presence of S-hexylglutathione suggests that modification of one residue is responsible for the partial loss of enzyme activity. Tyr 8 and Cys 17 are shown to be the reaction targets of 4-FSB, but only Tyr 8 is protected against 4-FSB by S-hexylglutathione. DTT regenerates cysteine from the reaction product of cysteine and 4-FSB, but does not reactivate the enzyme. These results show that modification of Tyr 8 by 4-FSB causes the partial inactivation of the enzyme. The Michaelis constants for various substrates are not changed by the modification of the enzyme. The pH dependence of the enzyme-catalyzed reaction of glutathione with CDNB for the modified enzyme, as compared with the native enzyme, reveals an increase of about 0.9 in the apparent pKa, which has been interpreted as representing the ionization of enzyme-bound glutathione; however, this pKa of about 7.4 for modified enzyme remains far below the pK of 9.1 for the -SH of free glutathione. Previously, it was considered that Tyr 8 was essential for GST catalysis. In contrast, we conclude that Tyr 8 facilitates the ionization of the thiol group of glutathione bound to glutathione S-transferase, but is not required for enzyme activity.
Several mutants with decreased levels of reduced glutathione (GSH) were isolated from the sensitive mutagen tester strain Salmonella typhimurium TA100 after treatment with u.v. and selection for resistance to N-ethyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (ENNG) and its methyl analogue MNNG. Estimation of the GSH concentration and GSH S-transferase activity in extracts of these strains and of TA100 indicates that the GSH- derivatives contain 10-30% of the GSH level found in TA100, and that they exhibit normal GSH S-transferase activity. The mutagenic activities of 7 chemicals, namely, MNNG, ENNG, 1,2-dibromoethane (DBE), 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), styrene-7,8-oxide (STOX), N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea (ENU) and methyl methane sulphonate (MMS) were compared in TA100 and in one representative GSH- strain, denominated NG-57. MNNG, ENNG, DBE and CDNB are potent to extremely potent mutagens in TA100, but induce very low levels of His+ mutants in NG-57. Pretreatment of NG-57 with 1 mM GSH (partially) restores the mutant yields to the levels usually found in TA100. The mutagenic activities of STOX, ENU and MMS are similar in both strains. These results support some previous findings, namely that ENNG, MNNG and DBE, but not ENU are activated to mutagens inside the test bacteria, and also suggest that CDNB is activated by bacterial GSH. The latter finding is in contrast with the current view that CDNB is detoxified by GSH, as is also presently evidenced by a strong reduction of the compound's mutagenicity in the presence of extracts of rat liver, which contains GSH and GSH S-transferase activity. The results with STOX indicate that GSH plays in bacteria a much less important role in the detoxification of xenobiotics than in mammalian tissue, presumably due to a much lower GSH S-transferase activity in the first organism.
Glutathione S-transferase CL 3 subunits purified from 1-day-old-chick livers were digested with Achromobacter proteinase I and the resulting fragments were isolated for amino acid sequence analysis. An oligonucleotide probe was constructed accordingly for cDNA library screening. A cDNA clone of 1342 bases, pGCL301, encoding a protein of 26209 Da was isolated and sequenced. Including conservative substitutions, this protein has 75-79% sequence similarity to other Alpha family glutathione S-transferases. The coding sequence of pGCL301 was inserted into a baculovirus vector for infection of Spodoptera frugiperda (SF9) cells. The expressed protein has a high relative activity with ethacrynic acid (47% of the specific activity with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene). The enzyme has a subunit molecular mass of 25.2 +/- 1.2 kDa (by SDS/PAGE), a pI of 9.45 and an absorption coefficient A1%1cm of 13.0 +/- 0.5 at 280 nm.
Several chemical agents have been used to exert oxidative stress in the study of stress response, but differences in the effects of different reagents have received little attention. To elucidate whether such differences exist, the response of Schizosaccharomyces pombe to menadione (MD), 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), hydrogen peroxide and cumene hydroperoxide (CHP), which are frequently used to exert oxidative stress, was investigated. Sensitivity to these reagents differed among mutants deficient in genes involved in oxidative stress resistance. N-Acetylcysteine restored resistance to MD, CHP and hydrogen peroxide but did not change sensitivity to CDNB. The induction kinetics of genes induced by oxidative stress differed for each reagent. MD, CDNB and hydrogen peroxide caused a transient induction of genes, but the peak times of induction differed among the reagents. CHP gave quite different kinetics in that the induction continued for up to 2 h. The ctt1(+) gene was not induced by CHP. GSH rapidly decreased in the cells treated with high concentrations of these reagents, but at a low concentration only CDNB decreased GSH. These results indicated that S. pombe responded differently to the oxidative stress exerted by these different reagents.
Conjugation of xenobiotics with glutathione occurs commonly within the liver, and these glutathione conjugates are then preferentially excreted into bile. We have characterized this excretory process using primary cultured hepatocytes (24 h). 1-Chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene rapidly entered the cells and formed a glutathione conjugate, S-(dinitrophenyl)glutathione, irrespective of the temperature of incubation. In contrast, the efflux of the glutathione conjugate was essentially absent in the cold but recovered rapidly upon rewarming of the cells. Therefore, initial rates of efflux of the conjugate at 37 degrees C were measured from cells preloaded biosynthetically at 10 degrees C. Efflux was a saturable process with respect to intracellular S-(dinitrophenyl)glutathione with an apparent Km of 0.58 +/- 0.12 mM and Vmax of 0.15 +/- 0.05 nmol/min/mg of protein. The excretion of S-(dinitrophenyl)glutathione had an energy of activation of 15.3 kcal/mol. The glutathione conjugate of p-nitrobenzylchloride when formed within the hepatocytes acted as a competitive inhibitor of S-(dinitrophenyl)glutathione efflux. Cultured hepatocytes, therefore, appeared to have a specific transport process for the excretion of glutathione conjugates. The addition of S-(dinitrophenyl)glutathione, but not GSH, GSSG, or methionine, to the medium caused a decrease in the rate of efflux of radiolabeled S-(dinitrophenyl)glutathione. The hepatocytes were able, however, to excrete the glutathione conjugate against an excess of extracellular S-(dinitrophenyl)glutathione. This observation suggested that extracellular S-(dinitrophenyl)glutathione, although capable of binding to the carrier, entered the hepatocytes quite slowly relative to rates of efflux. This carrier may function in a manner that would minimize the reuptake by hepatocytes of conjugates that have been excreted into the bile.
Domestic turkeys (Meleagris gallopavo) are one of the most susceptible animals known to the toxic effects of the mycotoxin aflatoxin B1 (AFB1), a potent human hepatocarcinogen, and universal maize contaminant. We have demonstrated that such susceptibility is associated with the inability of hepatic glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) to detoxify the reactive electrophilic metabolite exo-AFB1-8,9-epoxide (AFBO). Unlike their domestic counterparts, wild turkeys, which are relatively AFB1-resistant, possess hepatic GST-mediated AFBO conjugating activity. Here, we characterized the molecular and functional properties of hepatic alpha-class GSTs (GSTAs) from wild and domestic turkeys to shed light on the differences in resistance between these closely related strains. Six alpha-class GST genes (GSTA) amplified from wild turkeys (Eastern and Rio Grande subspecies), heritage breed turkeys (Royal Palm) and modern domestic (Nicholas strain) turkeys were sequenced, and catalytic activities of heterologously-expressed recombinant enzymes determined. Alpha-class identity was affirmed by conserved GST domains and four signature motifs. All GSTAs contained single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in their coding regions: GSTA1.1 (5 SNPs), GSTA1.2 (7), GSTA1.3 (3), GSTA2 (3), GSTA3 (1) and GSTA4 (2). E. coli-expressed GSTAs possessed varying activities toward GST substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB), ethacrynic acid (ECA), cumene hydroperoxide (CHP). As predicted by their relative resistance, livers from domestic turkeys lacked detectable GST-mediated AFBO detoxification activity, whereas those from wild and heritage birds possessed this critical activity, suggesting that intensive breeding and selection resulted in loss of AFB1-protective alleles during domestication. Our observation that recombinant tGSTAs detoxify AFBO, whereas their hepatic forms do not, implies that the hepatic forms of these enzymes are down-regulated, silenced, or otherwise modified by one or more mechanisms. These data may inform of possible molecular mechanisms of resistance to AFB1, and may also have the benefit of identifying genetic markers which could be used to enhance AFB1 resistance in modern domestic strains.
A homo-dimeric subfamily 2 glutathione (GSH) S-transferase (GST) mYrs-mYrs of the class theta was isolated from mouse liver cytosol and purified to homogeneity. The first 28 N-terminal amino acid sequence of the GST was completely identical to that of rat subfamily 2 GST Yrs-Yrs of the class theta. GST mYrs-mYrs cross-reacted with anti-rat GST Yrs-anti-sera but not with anti-sera raised against rat GSTs Ya-Ya (alpha), Yb1-Yb1 (mu), and Yp-Yp (pi) and represented more than 95% of the mouse liver cytosolic GST activity to scavenge the reactive sulfate ester 5-sulfoxymethylchrysene of the potent carcinogen 5-hydroxymethylchrysene. The mouse class theta GST had little activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and was unretainable on GSH and an S-hexyl-GSH affinity columns. GST mYrs-mYrs had a much higher GSH peroxidase activity toward fatty acid hydroperoxides than did the other classes of mouse GSTs.
Soluble guanylyl cyclase (GC) is a heme-containing protein that is a predominant target of nitric oxide (NO). This study examined whether the reductant, ascorbate (ASC), the oxidant, dehydroascorbate (DHAA), or other redox agents modulated the sensitivity of isolated rat coronary arteries to NO-induced vasodilations. Based on NO measurements with a NO-sensitive electrode, NO dilated the arteries with a pEC50 of 8.24 +/- 0.05. The potency of NO was significantly enhanced in the presence of ASC (pEC50 = 8.70 +/- 0.02) but was diminished in the presence of DHAA (pEC50 = 7.91 +/- 0.15). The potency of NO was not affected by other redox agents including dithiothreitol, beta-mercaptoethanol, diamide, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, ferricyanide, or ferrocyanide. Experiments involving the cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) analog, 8-Br-cGMP, and the phosphodiesterase inhibitor, isobutyl-methylxanthine, indicated that neither ASC nor DHAA has an effect on the degradation or potency of cGMP. ASC and DHAA also failed to affect vasodilations induced by diltiazem or forskolin. However, ASC and DHAA affected the potency of NO in human mesenteric arteries. The results are consistent with other evidence that ASC and DHAA affect the redox state of GC, and through this modulate arterial sensitivity to NO. This suggests that the regulation of the redox state of GC may be an additional site of modulation of the NO/cGMP pathway.
Once regarded as a "by-product" of aerobic metabolism, the production of superoxide/H2O2 is now understood to be a highly specialized and extensively regulated process responsible for exerting control over a vast number of thiol-containing proteins, collectively referred to as the redox-sensitive proteome. Although disruptions within this process, secondary to elevated peroxide exposure, have been linked to disease, the sources and mechanisms regulating increased peroxide burden remain poorly defined and as such are difficult to target using pharmacotherapy. Here we identify the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDC) as a key source of H2O2 within skeletal muscle mitochondria under conditions of depressed glutathione redox buffering integrity. Treatment of permeabilized myofibers with varying concentrations of the glutathione-depleting agent 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene led to a dose-dependent increase in pyruvate-supported JH2O2 emission (the flux of H2O2 diffusing out of the mitochondrial matrix into the surrounding assay medium), with emission rates eventually rising to exceed those of all substrate combinations tested. This striking sensitivity to glutathione depletion was observed in permeabilized fibers prepared from multiple species and was specific to PDC. Physiological oxidation of the cellular glutathione pool after high-fat feeding in rodents was found to elevate PDC JH2O2 emission, as well as increasing the sensitivity of the complex to GSH depletion. These findings reveal PDC as a potential major site of H2O2 production that is extremely sensitive to mitochondrial glutathione redox status.
Ten paired samples of primary human colorectal carcinoma and adjacent non-neoplastic mucosa were analysed for total glutathione S-transferase (GST) activities as determined by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene assays. These tissues were also investigated for the expression of acidic (pi), basic (alpha) and neutral (mu) GSTs using Western blotting procedures and immunohistochemical staining. For each of the paired samples examined the total GST activity was higher in tumour than in adjacent non-neoplastic mucosa. Western blotting, using an antibody against acidic GST also showed strong immunoreactivity in all the samples with more intense reactions in tumour compared to mucosa in nine out of the ten paired samples. Low levels of basic GST were also expressed in all samples of tumour and mucosa. Neutral GST was not detectable in two samples of tumour and corresponding mucosa, but low levels of expression were demonstrated in the remaining eight. Immunohistochemical staining for acidic GST showed a dark brown reaction in all tumour cells; in non-neoplastic mucosa there was positive immunoreactivity for epithelial cells situated deep within the crypts and a negative reaction for surface epithelial cells. Immunohistochemical staining for basic GST was negative except for one sample of tumour and two of mucosa. Neutral GST was expressed only in two samples of tumour and two samples of mucosa. We therefore conclude that there is enhanced expression of GSTs, acidic GST being the predominant form, in tumour compared to normal mucosa, in keeping with a role for GSTs in colonic carcinogenesis and acquired or innate drug resistance.
1. Treatment of female Sprague-Dawley rats with 3-methylcholanthrene, butylated hydroxyanisole, ethoxyquin, propyl gallate or methylcholanthrene plus butylated hydroxyanisole was undertaken to determine the effects on glutathione S-transferase activity in liver, small intestine, lung and kidney. 2. A significant increase in hepatic transferase activity was found following all treatments, except after propyl gallate, when 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was used as substrate. 3. When 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene was the substrate, only butylated hydroxyanisole and the combination of butylated hydroxyanisole and methylcholanthrene resulted in a significant increase. 4. In the extra-hepatic tissues using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as a substrate, all treatments caused an increase in transferase activity in the lung; ethoxyquin and combined methylcholanthrene plus butylated hydroxyanisole increased this activity in the kidney, whereas only the combined methylcholanthrene plus butylated hydroxyanisole increased activity in the small intestine. 5. All treatments caused a notable decrease in the composite Km and had varying effects on the composite Vmax of hepatic transferase activity.
A number of freshwater lakes and reclaimed agricultural sites in Central Florida have been the receiving waters for agrochemical and municipal runoff. One of these sites, Lake Apopka, is also a eutrophic system that has been the focus of several case studies reporting altered reproductive activity linked to bioaccumulation of persistent organochlorine chemicals in aquatic species. The present study was initiated to determine if brown bullheads (Ameiurus nebulosus) from the north marsh of Lake Apopka (Lake Apopka Marsh) exhibit an altered capacity to detoxify environmental chemicals through hepatic glutathione S-transferase (GST)-mediated conjugation as compared with bullheads from a nearby reference site (Lake Woodruff). We also compared plasma sex hormone concentrations (testosterone, 17-beta estradiol, and 11 keto-testosterone) in bullheads from the two sites. Female bullheads from Lake Apopka had 40% lower initial rate GST conjugative activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), 50% lower activity towards p-nitrobutyl chloride (NBC), 33% lower activity toward ethacrynic acid (ECA), and 43% lower activity toward Delta5-androstene-3,17-dione (Delta(5)-ADI), as compared with female bullheads from Lake Woodruff. Enzyme kinetic analyses demonstrated that female bullheads from Lake Apopka had lower GST-catalyzed CDNB clearance than did female Lake Woodruff bullheads. Western blotting studies of bullhead liver cytosolic proteins demonstrated that the reduced GST catalytic activities in female Lake Apopka bullheads were accompanied by lower expression of hepatic GST protein. No site differences were observed with respect to GST activities or GST protein expression in male bullheads. Female Lake Apopka bullheads also had elevated concentrations of plasma androgens (testosterone and 11-ketotestosterone) as compared with females from Lake Woodruff. In contrast, male Lake Apopka bullheads had elevated levels of plasma estrogen but similar levels of androgens as compared with male bullheads from Lake Woodruff. Collectively, our studies indicate the presence of reduced GST protein expression, reduced GST conjugative capacity and altered sex steroid homeostasis in female bullheads from a contaminated field site in Central Florida. The implications of these physiological alterations in terms of pollutant biotransformation and reproduction are discussed.
The activities of hepatic cytosolic glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) towards 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene in male rats were higher than those in females, however, the enzyme activities towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene were not significantly different between the two sexes. SDS-PAGE analysis of GSTs purified from male and female rat hepatic cytosols by affinity column chromatography showed that there was a significant difference in the subunit composition between the two sexes. With regard to the several isozymes of GSTs in male and female rats, isozymes with basic and neutral/acidic isoelectric points were separated into seven molecular species by chromatofocusing. These sex differences in the quantitative proportions of GST isozymes were also confirmed by immunotitration using anti-GST-BL and -AC antibodies. On the other hand, glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) activities in rat hepatic cytosol towards hydrogen peroxide and cumene hydroperoxide were markedly higher in females than in males. Of the two types of GSH-Px, selenoenzyme (Se-GSH-Px) and the Se-independent enzyme (non-Se-GSH-Px), the former was found to be mainly responsible for the sex difference in the enzyme activities. Moreover, the GSH-Px activity of GSTs, non-Se-GSH-Px, was also higher in females than that in males. Since GST isozymes of the BL type are known to possess GSH-Px activity towards cumene hydroperoxide, the increased activities of non-Se-GSH-Px in the female hepatic cytosol seemed to be mainly due to the increased transferase activities of the isozymes, GST-L2 and -BL.
The effect of lactation on UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) and Glutathione S-transferase (GST) activities was studied in jejunum from mother rats, 14 (LM14) and 21 (LM21) days after delivery. p-Nitrophenol glucuronidation rate was increased in LM14 and LM21 rats while conjugation of bilirubin and estrone was not affected and androsterone glucuronidation was decreased. Additional studies, including Western blotting and microsomal lipid analysis, revealed that the enhancement in p-nitrophenol UGT activity is most likely associated with an inductive process rather than with a modification in enzyme constraint. GST activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was also increased in LM14 and LM21 while activity towards 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB) was not affected. Western blotting revealed a significant increase in the cytosolic content of mu (rGSTM2) and pi (rGSTP1) class subunits in LM14 and LM21 groups, while the alpha class subunit rGSTA2 remained unchanged. To evaluate the potential modulatory role of prolactin on the same enzyme systems, ovariectomized rats were treated with ovine prolactin (oPRL) at doses of 100, 200 and 300 microg/100 g body wt. per day for 4 days. Hormone administration affected UGT activities towards p-nitrophenol and androsterone and GST activity towards CDNB in a way and magnitude consistent with those produced in lactating rats, while conjugation of estrone, bilirubin and DCNB were unchanged. Western blotting data were also consistent with those of lactating rats. These results indicate that UGT and GST activities are increased in rat jejunum during lactation, due to induction of some specific isoforms, and that prolactin is the likely mediator of these effects.
Abstract Glutathione S -transferase (GST) isozymes were purified from the GG strain of Aedes aegypti , a strain having ≥4-fold higher total GST activity compared to the wild-type lab strain. Purification involved S-hexyl-glutathione affinity chromatography in high salt buffer, and GST specific elution with S -( p -bromobenzyl)-glutathione. Final purification was accomplished on DEAE-Sepharose. Two isozymes, GST-1b and GST-2 were purified using this procedure, and an additional isozyme, GST-1a, was partially purified. The GST-2 isozyme has one of the highest specific activities reported for a GST, with a specific activity of 739 μmol/min/mg using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), and 16.4 μmol/min/mg using 3,4-dichloronitrobenzene (DCNB) as substrates. GST-2, GST-1a, and GST-1b were analyzed for amino acid composition and subjected to N-terminal sequencing. All three GSTs showed amino acid differences, especially among the nonpolar and polar amino acids. The amino acid composition of GST-1b was found to be more similar to GST 1-1 from Drosophila melanogaster than to GST-2 or GST-1a from Aedes aegypti . Only GST-2 gave N-terminal sequence data, raising the possibility that GST-1a and 1b are N-terminally blocked. The A. aegypti GST-2 showed amino acid sequence identity or similarity in all but one residue between residue numbers 31 through 41 compared to the D. melanogaster and Musca domestica GST 1-1 isozymes. The pattern of GST isozyme expression was analyzed in various tissues and stages of development of the GG and wild type strains using isozyme-specific antisera and substrates. GST-1a was constitutively overexpressed in all tissues examined in the GG strain compared to the wild type strain. The expression of GST-1b was similar in both strains for all tissues and developmental stages examined. GST-2 was constitutively overexpressed in head, thorax and abdomen, but was not detected in ovaries of the GG strain. These results suggest that elevated GST activity in the GG strain is due to constitutive overexpression of GST-2 and GST-1a. GST-1a, GST-1b and GST-2 apparently are the products of 3 independently regulated genes and appear to be expressed in a tissue-specific manner.
The effect of dietary administration of 0.5% ethoxyquin (EQ) on the in vivo induction of enzymes and effect on aflatoxin B1 (AFB1)-DNA binding in liver and the consequent in vitro metabolism of AFB1 by male Fischer F344 rat liver-derived fractions have been examined. EQ increased microsomal cytochrome P-450s, in particular those isozymes classed as phenobarbital inducible, and the in vitro rate of metabolism of AFB1. The formation of the presumed detoxified metabolites, aflatoxins M1 and Q1, was enhanced to a greater extent than was the formation of the active metabolite, aflatoxin B1-8,9 epoxide (assessed by the level of aflatoxin B1-8,9-dihydrodiol). Prolonged feeding with EQ was accompanied eventually by a reduction in the initially elevated cytochrome P-450 content, but this was not reflected in any significant decrease in the rate of AFB1 metabolism in vitro. EQ increased the glutathione S-transferase activity of the liver cytosol fractions as assessed with the model substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. The capacity of these fractions specifically to catalyze the conjugation of AFB1 with glutathione was induced to a far greater extent than was the conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. gamma-Glutamyl transpeptidase was induced in the periportal areas of the liver lobule. Reduced in vivo binding of [3H]AFB1 to DNA of liver and kidney was found to result from EQ treatment. It is concluded that the reduced hepatocarcinogenesis which results from feeding EQ simultaneously with AFB1 is due to the reduction in DNA-adduct formation which in turn is due at least in part to increased detoxifying metabolism in the microsomal, cytosolic, and plasma membrane compartments of the liver cells.
Glutathione S-transferase activity was identified in cytosol from human lymphoid-cell lines and peripheral leucocytes (polymorphonuclear-leucocyte/monocyte and small-lymphocyte fractions) and compared with human liver enzyme. The findings of closely similar elution volume in gel filtration, substrate (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene) and inhibitory (probenecid) kinetics indicate that the liver, leucocyte and lymphoid-cell transferases are closely related. The interaction of reduced glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was shown to occur in intact-lymphoid-cell culture, to be linear with time and quantity of cells and to have kinetics similar to those of the enzyme reaction catalysed by cytosol.
Assay conditions of human liver glutathione S-transferase and its activity in human serum from liver disease patients were investigated. ::: ::: One mmol/l reduced glutathione, and 1 mmol/l 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, pH 6.5, were used for the measurement, because of the very low non-enzymatic conjugation. Glutathione S-transferase activity was inhibited by bilirubin, but this inhibition was counteracted by the presence of a low concentration of albumin. The normal human serum glutathione S-transferase activity was 5.2 ± 2.4 I.U./l (mean ± S.D.), and was not influenced by any differences of age, sex or leukocyte count. ::: ::: A significant increase in serum enzyme activity was noted in cases of acute hepatitis with GPT exceeding 200 I.U./l, primary hepatoma and metastatic liver cancer. Some of the cases with fulminant hepatitis showed extremely high values. The degree of correlation between serum glutathione S-transferase and GOT or GPT was high in acute hepatitis, with GOT or GPT exceeding 200 I.U./l, in fulminant hepatitis, primary hepatoma and gall stones, while in chronic hepatitis and liver cirrhosis it was low. ::: ::: In cases of acute hepatitis and fulminant hepatitis, the disappearance of serum glutathione S-transferase from the blood was much faster than that of GOT and GPT. Serum glutathione S-transferase measurements will provide new and unique information for the diagnosis of acute liver diseases.
The functional role of three conserved amino acid residues in Proteus mirabilis glutathione S-transferase B1-1 (PmGST B1-1) has been investigated by site-directed mutagenesis. Crystallographic analyses indicated that Glu 6 5 , Ser 1 0 3 and Glu 1 0 4 are in hydrogen-bonding distance of the N-terminal amino group of the γ-glutamyl moiety of the co-substrate, GSH. Glu 6 5 was mutated to either aspartic acid or leucine, and Ser 1 0 3 and Glu 1 0 4 were both mutated to alanine. Glu 6 5 mutants (Glu 6 5 → Asp and Glu 6 5 → Leu) lost all enzyme activity, and a drastic decrease in catalytic efficiency was observed for Ser 1 0 3 → Ala and Glu 1 0 4 → Ala mutants toward both 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and GSH. On the other hand, all mutants displayed similar intrinsic fluorescence, CD spectra and thermal stability, indicating that the mutations did not affect the structural integrity of the enzyme. Taken together, these results indicate that Ser 1 0 3 and Glu 1 0 4 are significantly involved in the interaction with GSH at the active site of PmGST B1-1, whereas Glu 6 5 is crucial for catalysis.
Ure2, the protein that negatively regulates GATA factor (Gln3, Gat1)-mediated transcription in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, possesses prion-like characteristics. Identification of metabolic and environmental factors that influence prion formation as well as any activities that prions or prion precursors may possess are important to understanding them and developing treatment strategies for the diseases in which they participate. Ure2 exhibits primary sequence and three-dimensional homologies to known glutathione S-transferases. However, multiple attempts over nearly 2 decades to demonstrate Ure2-mediated S-transferase activity have been unsuccessful, leading to the possibility that Ure2 may well not participate in glutathionation reactions. Here we show that Ure2 is required for detoxification of glutathione S-transferase substrates and cellular oxidants. ure2 Delta mutants are hypersensitive to cadmium and nickel ions and hydrogen peroxide. They are only slightly hypersensitive to diamide, which is nitrogen source-dependent, and minimally if at all hypersensitive to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, the most commonly used substrate for glutathione S-transferase enzyme assays. Therefore, Ure2 shares not only structural homology with various glutathione S-transferases, but ure2 mutations possess the same phenotypes as mutations in known S. cerevisiae and Schizosaccharomyces pombe glutathione S-transferase genes. These findings are consistent with Ure2 serving as a glutathione S-transferase in S. cerevisiae.
Abstract Both isomers of N -(2′,4′-dinitrophenyl)benzotriazole, the 1(3)- and the 2-substituted, have been characterized and their reciprocal isomerism was studied. Cross-experiments in the presence of 5(6)-nitro-1 H -benzotriazole proved that the isomerization of 2-(2′,4′-dinitrophenyl)-2 H -benzotriazole into the 1-isomer occurs by an intermolecular mechanism. The reported reaction of 5(6)-nitro-1 H -benzotriazole with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene has been reexamined discovering that there is an error in the proportions of N -substituted isomers. A possible explanation for the observed isomerizations was proposed. Identification of all compounds by multinuclear magnetic resonance, including solid-state studies, has been achieved.
Recombinant human theta class glutathione transferase T1-1 has been heterologously expressed in Escherichia coli and a simple purification method involving immobilized ferric ion affinity chromatography and Orange A dye chromatography is described. The catalytic properties of the enzyme differ significantly from those of other glutathione transferases, also within the theta class, with respect to both substrate selectivity and kinetic parameters. In addition to 1,2-epoxy-3-(4-nitrophenoxy)propane, the substrate used previously to monitor the enzyme, human glutathione transferase T1-1 has activity with the naturally occurring phenethylisothiocyanate and also displays glutathione peroxidase activity with cumene hydroperoxide. Further, the enzyme is active with 4-nitrobenzyl chloride and 4-nitrophenethyl bromide, but shows no detectable activity with the more chemically reactive 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. The Michaelis constant for glutathione, K(m)GSH, with 1,2-epoxy-3-(4-nitrophenoxy)propane as second substrate, is high at low pH values but decreases at higher pH values. This is mirrored in kcat/K(m)GSH which increases with an apparent pKa value of 9.0, reflecting the ionization of the thiol group of glutathione in solution. The same results are obtained with 4-nitrophenethyl bromide as electrophilic substrate, although the K(m)GSH value (0.72 mM at pH 7.5), as well as the pKa (8.1) derived from the pH dependence of kcat/K(m)GSH, are lower with this substrate. In contrast, kcat and kcat/K(m)electrophile display either a maximum or a plateau at pH 7.0-7.5, and an apparent pKa value of 5.7 was determined for the pH dependence of kcat with both 4-nitrophenethyl bromide and 1,2-epoxy-3-(4-nitrophenoxy)propane as electrophilic substrates. This pKa value reflects an ionization of enzyme-bound GSH, most probably involving the sulfhydryl group, whose pKa value thus is lowered by the enzyme. Three differences in the cDNA as compared to the sequence previously published were found. One of these differences causes a change in the deduced amino acid sequence and involves the nucleotide triplet encoding amino acid 126, which was determined as GAG (Glu), instead of the published GGG (Gly).
Abstract A full-length cDNA of a glutathione S -transferase (GST) was cloned from a cDNA library of the local Egyptian cattle tick Boophilus annulatus . The 672 bp cloned fragment was sequenced and showed an open reading frame encoding a protein of 223 amino acids. Comparison of the deduced amino acid sequence with GSTs from other species revealed that the sequence is closely related to the mammalian mu-class GST. The cloned gene was expressed in E. coli under T7 promotor of pET-30b vector, and purified under native conditions. The purified enzyme appeared as a single band on 12% SDS-PAGE and has a molecular weight of 30.8 kDa including the histidine tag of the vector. The purified enzyme was assayed upon the chromogenic substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and the recombinant enzyme showed high level of activity even in the presence of the β-galactosidase region on its 5′ end and showed maximum activity at pH 7.5. The K m values for CDNB and GSH were 0.57 and 0.79 mM, respectively. The over expressed rBaGST showed high activity toward CDNB (121 units/mg protein) and less toward DCNB (29.3 units/mg protein). rBaGST exhibited peroxidatic activity on cumene hydroperoxide sharing this property with GSTs belonging to the GST α class. I 50 values for cibacron blue and bromosulfophthalein were 0.22 and 8.45 μM, respectively, sharing this property with the mammalian GSTmu class. Immunoblotting revealed the presence of the GST molecule in B. annulatus protein extracts; whole tick, larvae, gut, salivary gland and ovary. Homologues to the GSTmu were also detected in other tick species as Hyalomma dromedarii and Rhipicephalus sp. while in Ornithodoros moubata , GSTmu homologue could not be detected.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) of wood-degrading fungi play essential roles in cellular detoxification processes and endogenous metabolism. Fungal GSTs of GSTFuA class are suggested to be involved in lignin degradation. Ceriporiopsis subvermispora is one of the important model fungi of the selective lignin degraders, we found it interesting to study its GSTs. Here, we characterized the activities of two GSTs of the GSTFuA class of C. subvermispora (CsGST63524 and CsGST83044). A high-yield expression systems involving Escherichia coli was developed for each of these enzymes. Both enzymes were found to exhibit GSH-conjugation activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, and GSH-peroxidase activity toward cumene hydroperoxide. Both enzymes showed high GSH-conjugation activity under basic conditions (pH8.0 to 9.0), and the optimum temperature for their activity was 40°C. In addition, three fluorescent compounds were used i.e., methylumbelliferyl acetovanillone was used to monitor etherase activity, and 5-chloromethylfluorescein diacetate and 4-methylumbelliferyl acetate to monitor esterase activity. CsGST83044 exhibited both etherase and esterase activities, while CsGST63524 displayed only esterase activity, which was much higher than that of CsGST83044. These findings imply the functional diversity of the GSTFuA class GSTs of C. subvermispora, suggesting that each protein plays distinctive roles in both the fungal detoxification system and wood compound metabolism.
Following conjugation with glutathione, xenobiotics are converted into cysteinylglycine conjugates, cysteine conjugates, and finally, mercapturic acids. The structural factors determining the activities of dipeptidases for the metabolism of toxicologically-relevant cysteinylglycine conjugates are not well understood. We purified porcine kidney cortex membrane dipeptidase (MDP) to homogeneity, via phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C-mediated cleavage of the protein's membrane anchor and cilastatin affinity chromatography. The homodimeric structure of the MDP protein was confirmed by mass spectrometry. The cysteinylglycine conjugates of 1-(chloromethyl)naphthalene, 4-nitrobenzyl chloride, and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene were synthesized and HPLC separation methods for their quantitation were developed. MDP catalyzed the hydrolysis of all three conjugates, but the rate of this activity was strongly dependent on the nature of the substituent on the cysteine sulfur atom.
Glutathione S-transferase from the digestive gland of the cold-adapted marine bivalve Icelandic scallop was purified to apparent homogeneity by single GSTrap chromatography. The enzyme appeared to be a homodimer with subunit M(r) 22,000 having an optimum catalytic activity at pH 6.5-7. Enzymatic analysis of scallop GST using the substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and glutathione resulted in apparent values for K(m)(GST) and K(m)(CDNB) of 0.3 mM and 0.4 mM, respectively. The scallop GST lost activity faster than porcine GST when exposed to increased temperatures, but both enzymes needed 10 min incubation at 60 degrees C for complete inactivation. A partial coding sequence was identified in cDNA synthesised from digestive gland mRNA. Comparison to known sequences indicates that the gene product is a glutathione S-transferase, and the predicted Icelandic scallop GST protein scores 40% sequence identity and 60% sequence similarity to mu-class proteins.
1-Chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) is widely used as a model substrate for measuring the enzyme activity of glutathione S-transferases in toxicity studies and in studies focusing on the metabolic capacity of different test systems. To allow the quantification of CDNB at low, nontoxic concentrations, we developed a sensitive liquid chromatography–mass spectrometry (LC–MS) technique, which is based on electron capture ionization using atmospheric pressure chemical ionization (APCI) in negative ion mode. Gas-phase reactions occurring under atmospheric pressure produce specific ions that allow direct CDNB quantification down to 17 ng/mL in water. Using the new technique, we were able to verify CDNB exposure concentrations applied in two typical toxicity studies with early life stages of the common model organisms, zebrafish (Danio rerio) and a zebrafish embryonic cell line (PAC2).
A full-length cDNA of a sigma-like glutathione S-transferase (GST) was identified from Hyriopsis cumingii (HcGSTS). The deduced amino acid sequence of HcGSTS was found to comprise 203 amino acid residues and to contain the distinct highly conserved glutathione binding site of N-terminal and the relatively diverse substrate binding site of C-terminal. Alignment analysis and phylogenetic relationship suggested that the HcGSTS is a sigma-class GST. The mRNA of HcGSTS was constitutively expressed in all tested tissues, the strongest expression being in the hepatopancreas. The mRNA expression of HcGSTS was significantly up-regulated (P < 0.05) in all assessed tissues after stimulation of the mussels with peptidoglycan (PGN) and LPS, the only exception being when the gills were challenged with PGN. The expression of HcGSTS mRNA in kidney and foot was also significantly up-regulated (P < 0.05) by microcystin-LR. Recombinant HcGSTS exhibited high activity towards the substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. The optimal pH was 8.0 and temperature 35 °C.
A protective Mr28K antigen of Schistosoma mansoni, expressed from its cDNA, has been purified in a single step and shown to possess glutathione (GSH) transferase activity as predicted from sequence homologies with two mammalian GSH transferase multigene families. It is notable for its high 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene GSH transferase and linoleic acid hydroperoxide GSH peroxidase activities. The major GSH transferase of S. mansoni has been purified and its subunit is identical to this Mr28K antigen by criteria of Mr, immunochemistry, substrate specificity and peptide sequence analysis. In the parasite, the antigen is present in the tegument, protonephridial cells and subtegumental parenchymal cells. No significant immunological cross-reactivity between the S.mansoni and mammalian (human and rat) GSH transferases was observed.
Glutathione peroxidase activity with both hydrogen peroxideand cumene hydroperoxide was measured in the cytosolic fractions prepared from five human hearts obtained from post-mortem victims. In all the samples the activity with cumene hydroperoxide was higher than that obtained with hydrogen peroxide, suggesting that the selenium-independent glutathione peroxidase could also be present in this tissue. To determine its presence in heart tissue we fractionated the cardiac cytosol fraction on a column of Sephadex G-100 and measured glutathione peroxidase activity with both the substrates. Glutathione transferase activity was measured with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in the fractionated cytosol. The results indicated that a selenium-independent glutathione peroxidase activity was present (about 30% of total activity). Fractionation of the cytosol by gel filtration showed that peroxidase activity co-eluted with glutathione transferase activity. Subsequently the fractions containing glutathione transferase and selenium-independent glutathione peroxidase activity obtained from gel filtration experiments were passed through an affinity column and analyzed by isoelectric focusing. It was found that the selenium-independent glutathione peroxidase copurified with three isoenzymes of glutathione transferase which had a pI of 9.2, 8.9 and 8.6 respectively. In contrast the acidic isoenzymes of glutathione transferase lacked peroxidase activity. It is suggested that the selenium-independent glutathione peroxidase may play an important role in neutralizing oxygen toxicity in heart when the selenium-dependent glutathione peroxidase activity is impaired.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs)—an especially plant-specific tau class of GSTs—are key enzymes involved in biotic and abiotic stress responses. To improve the stress resistance of crops via the genetic modification of GSTs, we predicted the amino acids present in the GSH binding site (G-site) and hydrophobic substrate-binding site (H-site) of OsGSTU17, a tau class GST in rice. We then examined the enzyme activity, substrate specificity, enzyme kinetics and thermodynamic stability of the mutant enzymes. Our results showed that the hydrogen bonds between Lys42, Val56, Glu68, and Ser69 of the G-site and glutathione were essential for enzyme activity and thermal stability. The hydrophobic side chains of amino acids of the H-site contributed to enzyme activity toward 4-nitrobenzyl chloride but had an inhibitory effect on enzyme activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and cumene hydroperoxide. Different amino acids of the H-site had different effects on enzyme activity toward a different substrate, 7-chloro-4-nitrobenzo-2-oxa-1,3-diazole. Moreover, Leu112 and Phe162 were found to inhibit the catalytic efficiency of OsGSTU17 to 7-chloro-4-nitrobenzo-2-oxa-1,3-diazole, while Pro16, Leu112, and Trp165 contributed to structural stability. The results of this research enhance the understanding of the relationship between the structure and function of tau class GSTs to improve the abiotic stress resistance of crops.
Recently, the structures of four MAPEG membrane proteins were solved confirming the trimeric arrangement of identical subunits [4, [13] [14] [15] [16] previously demonstrated by hydrodynamic and crosslinking experiments [17, 18] . The active sites are situated between subunits suggesting that each trimeric enzyme should harbour three catalytic sites. This observation contrasts with earlier data on MGST1 where binding studies by equilibrium dialysis revealed one bound glutathione (GSH) per MGST1 trimer, with a K d of 20 lM [19] . Furthermore, pre-steady state kinetic experiments suggest the formation of one GSH thiolate anion (the catalytically competent form of GSH) and one GS À -trinitrobenzene Meisenheimer dead-end complex per trimer. Active site titrations revealed one active site per trimer as well [20, 21] . Taken together these data point to a third-ofthe-sites mechanism that most likely reflects a heterogeneous behaviour of the individual subunits. In contrast, H/D exchange experiments favours global conformational alterations upon GSHbinding [2, 22] E-mail addresses: johan.alander@ki.se, johan.alander@live.se (J. Ålander). 1 These two authors are contributed equally to this work. 2 Abbreviations used: CDNB, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene; GSDNB, 1-S-glutathionyl-2,4-dinitrobenzene; GSH, glutathione; GS À , glutathione thiolate anion; GSOH, glutathione sulfenic acid; GSO 3 À , glutathione sulphonate; GST, glutathione transferase;
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs)-an especially plant-specific tau class of GSTs-are key enzymes involved in biotic and abiotic stress responses. To improve the stress resistance of crops via the genetic modification of GSTs, we predicted the amino acids present in the GSH binding site (G-site) and hydrophobic substrate-binding site (H-site) of OsGSTU17, a tau class GST in rice. We then examined the enzyme activity, substrate specificity, enzyme kinetics and thermodynamic stability of the mutant enzymes. Our results showed that the hydrogen bonds between Lys42, Val56, Glu68, and Ser69 of the G-site and glutathione were essential for enzyme activity and thermal stability. The hydrophobic side chains of amino acids of the H-site contributed to enzyme activity toward 4-nitrobenzyl chloride but had an inhibitory effect on enzyme activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and cumene hydroperoxide. Different amino acids of the H-site had different effects on enzyme activity toward a different substrate, 7-chloro-4-nitrobenzo-2-oxa-1,3-diazole. Moreover, Leu112 and Phe162 were found to inhibit the catalytic efficiency of OsGSTU17 to 7-chloro-4-nitrobenzo-2-oxa-1,3-diazole, while Pro16, Leu112, and Trp165 contributed to structural stability. The results of this research enhance the understanding of the relationship between the structure and function of tau class GSTs to improve the abiotic stress resistance of crops.
In a previous study [31] , a specific tau class GST (OsGSTU17) was cloned from rice (Oryza sativa). This GST showed significant variation in transcription in response to aryl halides, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), and hydrogen peroxide treatments. OsGSTU17 protein also showed activities toward aryl halides and peroxides. The predicted structure of OsGSTU17 is similar to that of mango MiGSTU, wheat TaGSTU4, and rice OsGSTU1 (Protein Data Bank (PDB) 5G5F, 1GWC, and 1OYJ, respectively). Based on protein sequence and structure similarity among OsGSTU17, MiGSTU, TaGSTU4, and OsGSTU1, we speculate that Ser15, Lys42, Val56, Glu68, and Ser69 of OsGSTU17 are the G-site residues, while Pro16, Met17, Asn109, Leu112, Tyr113, Phe116, Trp161, Phe162, and Trp165 form the H-site. The role of Ser15 of OsGSTU17 in the activation and stabilization of GSH was demonstrated in the previous study [31] . In this study, we used site-directed mutagenesis to characterize the roles of the other residues of OsGSTU17 at the G-and H-sites on enzymatic activity. This research deepens our understanding of the structural and enzymological properties of the predicted residues involved in GSH and toxic substance binding, and may thereby serve as a basis for improving the abiotic stress resistance of crops.
We have shown earlier that there are large, hereditary interindividual differences in the cytosolic glutathione transferase activity towards trans-stilbene oxide in human mononuclear leukocytes. In the present study we ask whether these differences reflect the presence or absence of a particular isozyme(s) of glutathione transferase. First, in order to measure the high glutathione transferase activity optimally it was necessary to modify our previous assay by increasing the concentration of reduced glutathione from 3 to 5 mM and of the substrate from 50 to 250 microM. It was then found that the low activity demonstrates an apparent Km for trans-stilbene oxide of 28.3 microM, whereas the corresponding value for the high activity was 127 microM. Secondly, it was found that while glutathione transferase activity towards trans-stilbene oxide in different individuals segregated into three groups, low, high and very high, glutathione transferase activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene in these same mononuclear leukocyte fractions formed only a single group with no tendency towards such segregation. Thirdly, the SDS-poly-acrylamide gel electrophoretic pattern obtained with the supernatant fraction from mononuclear cells demonstrating high glutathione transferase activity towards trans-stilbene oxide contained a band of 25 000 molecular weight which was either absent or present at a much lower level in cells demonstrating low activity. We conclude that high activity towards trans-stilbene oxide in circulating, resting human mononuclear cells is catalyzed by a particular isozyme(s) of glutathione transferase. cis-Stilbene oxide, styrene oxide and, possibly, benzo[a]pyrene 4,5-oxide are also substrates for this isozyme(s).
Kinetic and equilibrium data are reported for the reaction of three nitro-compounds with tetramethylammonium hydroxide in t-butyl alcohol containing water. In all solvent systems studied the reactive nucleophile is thought to be the hydroxide ion rather than the t-butoxide ion. The reaction of 1,3,5-trinitrobenzene with base gives a σ-adduct, while 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene gives 2,4-dinitrophenol. The rates of both these reactions fall rapidly with increasing water in the solvent. In contrast the rate of formation of picric acid from the third substrate, picryl chloride, increases with water content due to the initial formation of the 3-hydroxy-adduct.
Abstract The Keap1-Nrf2 system plays a critical role in cellular defense against electrophiles and reactive oxygen species. Keap1 possesses a number of cysteine residues, some of which are highly reactive and serves as sensors for these insults. Indeed, point mutation of Cys151 abrogates the response to certain electrophiles. However, this mutation does not affect the other set of electrophiles, suggesting that multiple sensor systems reside within the cysteine residues of Keap1. The precise contribution of each reactive cysteine to the sensor function of Keap1 remains to be clarified. To elucidate the contribution of Cys151 in vivo, in this study we adopted transgenic complementation rescue assays. Embryonic fibroblasts and primary peritoneal macrophages were prepared from mice expressing the Keap1-C151S mutant. These cells were challenged with various Nrf2 inducers. We found that some of the inducers triggered only marginal responses in Keap1-C151S-expressing cells, while others evoked responses in a comparable magnitude to those observed in the wild-type cells. We found that tert-butyl hydroquinone, diethylmaleate, sulforaphane, and dimethylfumarate were Cys151 preferable, whereas 15-deoxy-Δ12,14-prostaglandin J2 (15d-PG-J2), 2-cyano-3,12 dioxooleana-1,9 diene-28-imidazolide (CDDO-Im), ebselen, nitro-oleic acid, and cadmium chloride were Cys151 independent. Experiments with embryonic fibroblasts and primary macrophages yielded consistent results. Experiments testing protective effects against the cytotoxicity of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene of sulforaphane and 15d-PG-J2 in Keap1-C151S-expressing macrophages revealed that the former inducer was effective, while the latter was not. These results thus indicate that there exists distinct utilization of Keap1 cysteine residues by different chemicals that trigger the response of the Keap1-Nrf2 system, and further substantiate the notion that there are multiple sensing mechanisms within Keap1 cysteine residues.
Abstract An 8-kilobase mouse genomic fragment containing two intact glutathione S-transferase (GST) genes has been isolated from a mouse lambda genomic library. Each of the genes (designated mGSTpiA and mGSTpiB) is less than 3 kilobases in size and is comprised of seven exons that give rise to a 630-base pair open reading frame encoding 209 amino acids. The deduced amino acid sequences of the gene products differ in only 6 amino acids at positions 10, 11, 89, 104, 106, and 109. These two genes are highly homologous to rat GST-P and to a lesser extent to human GST-pi. Northern blot analysis of mRNAs from a variety of mouse tissues demonstrated that mGSTpiB is ubiquitously expressed, whereas mGST-piA is more selectively expressed in gallbladder, colon, heart, and skeletal muscle. Primer extension analysis revealed four potential transcription start sites in mGST-piB and one in mGSTpiA. Although both genes were expressed in vitro and in vivo only mGSTpiB product metabolized 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, a common GST substrate. Further in vitro expression studies of three chimeric mGSTpi genes suggested that one or both of the amino acids at positions 10 and 11 of mouse GSTpi enzymes are important for the enzyme's ability to metabolize 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene.
A microsomal glutathione S-transferase (GST) was purified from human liver. This enzyme was shown to have characteristics similar to those of the rat microsomal GST described by Morgenstern & De Pierre [(1983) Eur. J. Biochem. 134, 591-597]. The specific activity of human microsomal GST towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene or cumene hydroperoxide can be stimulated by treating the enzyme with N-ethylmaleimide. This enhancement of activity is accompanied by increased sensitivity to inhibition by haematin and cholic acid. The subunit Mr values of the rat and human enzymes are similar (approx. 17,300), and the proteins are immunologically related. During purification, both human and rat microsomal GST enzymes are the only hepatic proteins obtained from Triton X-100-solubilized microsomal fractions that show activity towards the nephrotoxin hexachlorobuta-1,3-diene. The involvement of microsomal GST in toxification reactions is discussed.
A model experiment for the 'on-line' screening of substrate libraries by enzymes using combinatorial libraries in combination with electrospray ionization-Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance (ESI-FTICR) mass spectrometry has been performed. The reaction between the electrophilic substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and component of a H-gamma-Glu-Cys-Xxx-OH library, catalyzed by glutathione-S-transferase, has been monitored. It shows the feasibility of 'two-dimensional' screening of substrate libraries by ESI-FTICR mass spectrometry.
The innate immune system is the first line of defence against invading microorganisms, and neutrophils are the most abundant leukocyte and the first to arrive at a site of infection. Periodontitis is a highly prevalent chronic non communicable disease and in its most severe form is the sixth most prevalent human disease, affecting 11.2% of the world’s population. It has been associated various systemic diseases and conditions, such as diabetes. In periodontitis it is known that neutrophils have aberrant chemotactic behaviour (Roberts et al PMID: 25360483), as well as increased reactive oxygen species production whilst resting (hyper activity) and when stimulated (hyper-reactivity) (Matthews et al PMID: 17223966). This combination may lead to enhanced tissue damage in the periodontal lesion. We have also shown that levels of glutathione in the periodontal lesion (Grant et al PMID: 19968740) and within circulating peripheral neutrophils (Dias et al PMID: 23826097) are decreased, demonstrating a loss in redox buffering and capacity. Previous studies have shown the importance of glutathionylation of actin in chemotactic movement of neutrophils (Sakai et al 2012 PMID: 23159440). With the long term aim to examine how diminished glutathione levels in periodontitis effect chemotaxis, we examined the effect of glutathione modulation by buthioninesulfoximine (BSO), N-acetylcysteine (NAC), bis-chloroethylnitrosourea (BCNU) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) on neutrophil intracellular glutathione, viability and chemotaxis towards interleukin 8 and N-formylmethionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine (fMLP). BSO, BCNU and CDNB decreased the chemotaxis and glutathione levels in peripheral neutrophils isolated from healthy donors. Future studies will translate this work into a periodontal cohort and examine protein glutathionylation by mass spectrometry.
During fetal development, the liver serves as the primary hematopoietic organ in which hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) capable of initiating long-term hematopoiesis comprise a large proportion of the hepatic cell population. Although HSC are potential targets for transplacental chemicals, little is known regarding their xenobiotic biotransformation ability. We quantitated the steady-state mRNA expression of six cytochrome P450 (P450) and 11 glutathione S-transferase (GST) isoforms in CD34(+)-selected HSC isolated from second trimester human fetal liver donors, genotyped donors for polymorphic hGSTM1 and hGSTT1 status, and analyzed gene expression in HSC relative to total liver from donors of similar gestational ages. Several P450 isoforms, including CYP1A1, CYP2E1, CYP3A4, and CYP3A5, were expressed at low levels in HSC (relative mRNA expression CYP3A5 > CYP1A1 > CYP2E1 > CYP3A4). CYP1A2 and CYP3A7 were not detected in HSC. The CYP3A4/5 mRNA expression in HSC was accompanied by detectable CYP3A protein and low midazolam oxidation activity. Several GST isoforms, including hGSTM1, hGSTM2, hGSTM4, and hGSTP1, were significantly higher in HSC as compared with total fetal liver. With the exception of hGSTA4, alpha class GST were not detected in HSC. GST expression in HSC was accompanied by substantial GST catalytic activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. In summary, our data indicate that fetal liver CD34(+)-derived HSC constitutively express several P450 isoforms at low levels relative to total hepatic cell populations but have a higher capacity for GST conjugation reactions through mu and pi class isoforms. The functional ramifications of these observations are discussed relative to the sensitivity of human fetal HSC to transplacental chemical injury.
In the present study we show that repeated exposure of the rat intestinal epithelial cell line IEC-18 to 2-hydroxyamino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (N-OH-PhIP), from a toxicological point of view the most relevant phase-1 metabolite of 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP, the main heterocyclic aromatic amine present in processed meat), led to the selection of N-OH-PhIP-resistant IEC-18 cells. This phenomenon was accompanied by a fivefold increase in total glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity, measured with the broad-spectrum substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, in the N-OH-PhIP-resistant IEC-18 cells. Furthermore, a Western blotting analysis revealed that the expression of GST subunits A1, A3, A4, M1 and P1 was enhanced in the N-OH-PhIP-resistant IEC-18 cells.
Glutathione transferase (GST) activity towards racemic as well as the resolved enantiomers of 7 beta,8 alpha-dihydroxy-9 alpha,10 alpha-epoxy-7,8,9,10-tetrahydrobenzo[a] pyrene (anti-BPDE) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was measured in post-microsomal supernatants (PMS) obtained from eight human skin samples. All preparations showed significant activity towards anti-BPDE and an almost exclusive preference for the more tumourigenic (+)-enantiomer. The specific activity towards (+)-anti-BPDE varied about five-fold between different PMS (range 147-781 pmol/min per mg protein) whereas the variation in specific activities towards CDNB was about two-fold (range 30-71 nmol/min per mg protein). The activities obtained with PMS at saturating concentrations of racemic anti-BPDE were about half of the activity towards the (+)-enantiomer indicating that (-)-anti-BPDE competitively inhibits conjugation of the (+)-form. No correlation was evident between the activities towards (+)-anti-BPDE and CDNB implying that different classes of GST isoenzymes participated in the two different reactions. Immunoblot analysis revealed the presence of Class Alpha and Pi isoenzymes whereas Class Mu isoenzymes seemed to be absent in the human skin samples analyzed. Quantitatively, the Class Pi isoenzyme(s) predominated in all skin samples and the amount of enzyme was about 1-3 micrograms GST Pi/mg PMS protein. The almost exclusive conjugation of (+)-anti-BPDE by PMS and previous results with GST Pi enzymes from human placenta suggested that this type of enzymes catalysed the conjugation reaction. The five-fold variation in specific activity towards (+)-anti-BPDE observed among the different PMS may be explained by individual differences in GST Pi content or by the presence of endogenous modifiers of GST activity towards the diol-epoxide.
In this study, feral leaping mullet (Liza saliens) liver cytosolic glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) were investigated and characterized using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and ethacrynic acid (EA) as substrates. The average GST activities towards CDNB and EA were found to be 1365 +/- 41 and 140 +/- 20 nmol/min per mg protein, respectively. The effects of cytosolic protein amount and temperature ranging from 4 to 70 degrees C on enzyme activities were examined. While both activities towards CDNB and EA showed similar dependence on protein amount, temperature optima were found as 37 and 42 degrees C, respectively. In addition, the effects of pH on GST-CDNB and -EA activities were studied and different pH activity profiles were observed. For both substrates, GST activities were found to obey Michaelis-Menten kinetics with apparent V(max) and K(m) values of 1661 nmol/min per mg protein and 0.24 mM and 157 nmol/min per mg protein and 0.056 mM for CDNB and EA, respectively. Distribution of GST in Liza saliens tissues was investigated and compared with other fish species. Very high GST activities were measured in tissues from Liza saliens such as liver, kidney, testis, proximal intestine, and gills. Moreover, our results suggested that GST activities from Liza saliens would be a valuable biomarker for aquatic pollution.
Abstract An enzyme that possesses the glutathione S -transferase (GST) activity was found in the rice leaffolder moth, Cnaphalocrocis medinalis . The enzyme was purified to homogeneity for the first time by ammonium sulfate fractionation and affinity chromatography. The resultant enzyme revealed a single band with a molecular mass of 24 kDa by SDS–polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis under reduced conditions. When assayed with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, a universal substrate for GST, the purified GST had an optimum pH at 8.0, and was fairly stable at pH 3–10 and at temperatures below 50 °C. The enzyme was also able to conjugate glutathione to 4-hydroxynonenal, a cytotoxic lipid peroxidation product. The present GST was inhibited by fenitrothion, permethrin, and deltamethrin, suggesting that the GST could be involved in metabolizing these organophosphorus and pyrethroid insecticides.
Valencene (VAL) isolated from Cyperus rotundus possesses various biological effects such as antiallergic and antimelanogenesis activity. We investigated the effect of VAL on atopic dermatitis (AD) skin lesions and their molecular mechanisms. We topically applied VAL to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB) sensitized NC/Nga mice. Modified scoring atopic dermatitis index, scratching behavior, and histological/immunohistochemical staining were used to monitor disease severity. RT-PCR, western blotting, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay were used to determine the level of IgE, proinflammatory cytokines/chemokines production, and skin barrier proteins expression. Topical application of VAL significantly reduced AD-like symptoms and recovered decreased expression of filaggrin in DNCB-sensitized NC/Nga mice. The levels of serum IgE, IL-1β, IL-6, and IL-13 in skin/splenic tissue were reduced. In vitro studies using TNF-α and IFN-γ treated HaCaT cells revealed that VAL inhibited the exaggerated expression of Th2 chemokines including TARC/CCL17, MDC/CCL22, and proinflammatory chemokines such as CXCL8, GM-CSF, and I-CAM through blockade of the NF-κB pathway. In addition, expression of the skin barrier protein, involucrin, was also increased by VAL treatment. VAL inhibited the production and expression of proinflammatory cytokines IL-1β and IL-6 in LPS-stimulated RAW 264.7 cells. These results suggest that VAL may serve as a potential therapeutic option for AD.
Glutathione-S-transferases (GST) are a group of enzymes which detoxify electrophilic xenobiotics (including drugs, carcinogens and their metabolites), and thus may be involved in the age-related pathologic process. Effects of a 30% dietary restriction on liver GST activities toward seven substrates were studied in male Lobund-Wistar (L-W) rats at 6, 12, 18, 24 and 30 months of age. The enzyme activities in the ad libitum (AL) group toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), bromosulfophthalein (BSP), 4-nitropyridine-N-oxide (NPNO), p-nitrobenzyl chloride (NBC), trans-4-phenyl-3-buten-2-one (PBO) and styrene oxide (STOX) did not change with age, while those toward 1,2-dicholoro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB) decreased after middle age. The enzyme activities in the dietary restricted (DR) group toward CDNB and STOX did not change with age, while those toward DCNB, BSP, NPNO, NBC and PBO decreased after middle age. The DR group had significantly higher GST activities than the AL group, especially at 18 months, when BSP, NPNO, NBC and PBO were used as the substrates. Dietary restriction did not affect GST activities toward all seven substrates at old age. These results are substrate-specific, indicating that isozyme-specific changes in GST activities occur with dietary restriction and aging. The results suggest that dietary restriction enhances liver detoxification capability associated with GSH conjugation in middle age, which may contribute to the delaying of the age-related pathologic process until a later point in life in this animal model.
BACKGROUND ::: There is considerable interindividual variation in the activity of enzymes which metabolize polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon constituents of tobacco smoke. Low activity of enzymes which detoxify carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon metabolites may be associated with increased susceptibility to cancers etiologically related to cigarette smoking. ::: ::: ::: PURPOSE ::: We conducted a population-based, case-control study to determine whether patients with cancers related to smoking had lower activity of detoxifying isoenzymes of glutathione S-transferase (GST) and epoxide hydrolase (EH) than control subjects. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Enzyme activities were measured in leukocytes from 113 King County (Washington) residents diagnosed during 1987 with one of three smoking-related cancers (lung, oropharynx/oral cavity, or bladder), 50 King County residents with cancers believed unrelated to smoking (prostate cancer or non-Hodgkin's lymphoma), and 120 persons selected at random from the King County population. Enzyme activity measurements were made for leukocyte cytosolic GST toward transstilbene oxide (TSO), 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, and benzo[a]pyrene-4,5-oxide (BaPO), and for microsomal EH toward BaPO. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Overall, the distribution of activity levels of GST toward TSO and BaPO did not differ in case patients with smoking-related cancer compared with control subjects. The activities of GST toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and of EH toward BaPO were somewhat lower on average in case patients with smoking-related cancers than in control subjects, but these differences were well within the limits of chance. Among the heaviest smokers, there were proportionately fewer patients with smoking-related cancers than control subjects with intermediate or high GST activity toward TSO (odds ratio = 0.6), but this difference was also plausibly due to chance (95% confidence interval = 0.3-1.1). ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: While the findings of this study are compatible with a moderate protective effect of high or intermediate enzyme activity among persons heavily exposed to tobacco, as suggested by an earlier report, the data are by no means conclusive.
1. The effects of garlic oil (GO) on the expression of P4502E1, glutathione S-transferase (GST) and microsomal epoxide hydrolase (mEH) were assessed by metabolic activities, immunoblot and RNA blot analyses in the rat. 2. p-Nitrophenol (PNP) hydroxylase activity decreased in the hepatic microsomes isolated from rats treated with GO at 200 mg/kg b.w. by 10-30% as compared with control. Pyrazine-inducible P4502E1 expression was decreased by approximately 40% following concomitant treatment of animals with GO at the dose of 200 mg/kg from day 1 to 3 post-treatment, as evidenced by PNP hydroxylase activity. The rates of aniline hydroxylase and NDMA demethylase activities in GO-treated animals were consistent with those of PNP hydroxylase activity. Treatment of animals with 500 mg/kg GO resulted in suppression of P4502E1-mediated catalytic activities, as monitored by both PNP and aniline hydroxylase activities, whereas the effects at the dose of 1000 mg/kg were identical with those at 500 mg/kg b.w. 3. Immunoblot analyses of hepatic microsomes, using an anti-P4502E1 antibody, showed that GO minimally suppressed constitutive P4502E1 expression at 24, 48 and 72 h post-treatment at the daily doses from 200 to 1000 mg/kg b.w., as compared with vehicle-treated animals. Time-dependent pyrazine induction of P4502E1, however, was substantially blocked by concomitant treatment of animals with 200 mg/kg GO to the levels of control. Treatment at the dose of 1000 mg/kg failed to further suppress P4502E1 levels. GO treatment caused no changes in the levels of P4502E1 mRNA, as assessed by slot blot analyses. 4. Cytosol produced from the GO-treated rat showed approximately 40% increases in GST conjugating activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, whereas mEH protein levels were 1.5-2.0-fold greater than control with similar increases in the mRNA levels noted. 5. These results demonstrate that GO suppresses inducible P4502E1 expression more significantly than constitutive expression, and that GO induces GST and mEH expression to a certain extent.
With the fast growth of cancer research, new analytical methods are needed to measure anticancer drugs. This is usually accomplished by using sophisticated analytical instruments. Biosensors are attractive candidates for measuring anticancer drugs, but currently few biosensors can achieve this goal. In particular, it is challenging to have a general method to monitor various types of anticancer drugs with different structures. In this work, a biosensor was developed to detect anticancer drugs by modifying carbon paste electrodes with glutathione-s-transferase (GST) enzymes. GST is widely studied in the metabolism of xenobiotics and is a major contributing factor in resistance to anticancer drugs. The measurement of anticancer drugs is based on competition between 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and the drugs for the GST enzyme in the electrochemical potential at 0.1V vs. Ag/AgCl by square wave voltammetry (SWV) or using a colorimetric method. The sensor shows a detection limit of 8.8μM cisplatin and exhibits relatively long life time in daily measurements.
Context: Schizandra chinensis Baillon (SC) is traditionally used as a medicinal plant in the Orient. Recently, SC has become recognized as an adaptogen by the mainstream medical community. Phytoadaptogens influence respiratory, cardiovascular, uterus myotonic, and immune activities. Atopic dermatitis (AD) is an allergic inflammatory skin disease caused by aberrant and over-reactive immune responses.Objective: This study assessed the suppressive effect of SC extract (SCE) on 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB)-induced AD in a NC/Nga mouse model.Materials and methods: AD was induced by topically applying 0.2% DNCB to the hairless-back of NC/Nga mice for 4 weeks. Treated mice received SCE or dexamethasone after AD induction.Results: SCE markedly suppressed DNCB-induced dermatitis, as determined by a count of scratching frequency; measurement of IgE, IgM, and histamine levels in serum; and histological observation of epidermal hyperplasia and mast-cell infiltration. Additionally, SCE lessened DNCB-induced hist...
High glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity may contribute to colorectal cancer prevention. Functional polymorphisms are known in the GSTM1, GSTT1, GSTA1 and GSTP1 genes. The influence of these GST polymorphisms and recent fruit and vegetable consumption on GST levels and activity has not been investigated simultaneously in a human population. Also, it is not clear if blood GST activity reflects rectal GST activity. Therefore, we determined GST polymorphisms in 94 patients scheduled for sigmoidoscopy. Rectal GST isoenzyme levels (GSTM1, GSTM2, GSTT1, GSTA and GSTP1) were measured by quantitative western blotting, and rectal and white blood cell total GST activities were measured spectrophotometrically using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as a substrate. Vegetable and fruit consumption was assessed by dietary record. As expected, the GSTM1 and GSTT1 deletion polymorphisms, and the GSTA1 g.-69C-->T polymorphism significantly affected the respective isoenzyme levels. Also, rectal GST isoenzyme levels differed between those with and without recent consumption of Alliaceae, Cucurbitaceae, Apiaceae and citrus fruit. Rectal GST activity, however, was not clearly influenced by fruit and vegetable consumption. It was most significantly determined by the GSTP1 c.313A-->G polymorphism; compared with the 313AA genotypes, the 313AG and 313GG genotypes showed 36 and 67 nmol/min/mg protein (P < 0.001) lower GST activity, respectively. The correlation between rectal and white blood cell GST activities was low (r = 0.40, P < 0.001), and the relevance of the various genetic and dietary factors appeared to differ between the two tissues. In conclusion, this study indicates that the GST enzyme system is influenced by both GST polymorphisms and consumption of fruits and vegetables. The latter appeared more important for individual rectal GST isoenzyme levels than for total GST activity, which could affect detoxification of isoenzyme-specific substrates. The study results do no support the use of white blood cell GST activity as a surrogate measure for rectal GST activity.
Abstract The glutathione transferases (GSTs) mediate the detoxification of a broad spectrum of electrophilic chemicals. We report here the identification and characterisation of a novel naturally occurring transition that changes codon 169 from GGC (Gly) to GAC (Asp) in the human Pi class GST, GSTP1. Expression of the variant in human HepG2 cells led to a small increase in 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) conjugation compared to the wild-type protein. Asp169 GSTP1-1 expressed at high levels in Escherichia coli displayed a small but significant increase in specific activity towards CDNB compared to Gly169 GSTP1-1. The catalytic efficiency with CDNB was higher for Asp169 GSTP1-1 compared to the wild-type enzyme, although the kinetic constants of the mutant and the wild-type enzyme towards glutathione were not different. Modelling indicated that the mutation does not appear to change protein conformation. The distribution of the genotypes in a normal healthy population (217 individuals) was 94.3% for the Gly/Gly genotype and 5.7% for the Gly/Asp genotype; no Asp/Asp genotypes were detected in this population. The frequency of the Asp169 allele in the only oxidative stress-linked pathology that we have studied to date, i.e. alcoholic liver disease, was not significantly different from healthy controls. In conclusion, we have detected and characterised a novel SNP in GSTP1 that may play a role in modulating the activity of GSTP1-1.
Glutathione S-transferases (GST) form an important family of biotransformation enzymes catalyzing the conjugation of glutathione to a great variety of xenobiotic compounds. The objective of this study was to compare the different characteristics of GST from freshly isolated rainbow trout hepatocytes with those corresponding to the total liver of the same fish, in order to establish the similarities. GST was purified by affinity chromatography and enzymatic activity was determined towards two substrates, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and ethacrynic acid (ETHA). The different isoenzymes were determined by HPLC associated with SDS-PAGE. Slight differences between the samples were obtained when the results corresponding to the enzyme activity were compared. HPLC results showed that all GST isoforms present in the total liver samples were represented in the isolated cells too, corresponding to isoforms with molecular masses of approximately 25.5 and 23.0 kDa.
The kinetic mechanism of the endogenous glutathione transferase (GST) activity of octopus S-crystallin was investigated by steady-state kinetics. Biphasic double-reciprocal plots were obtained for both glutathione and the hydrophobic substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). Substrate inhibition was observed only for CDNB with Ksi value of 29.7 +/- 0.01 mM. The catalytic constant for S-crystallin was three orders of magnitude smaller than that for the digestive gland GST of the same species. The initial-velocity studies indicated that the enzyme reaction might conform to a steady-state random Bi-Bi kinetic mechanism, being similar to the reaction of GST from other sources. The pH-rate profiles also suggest that the same chemical mechanism for the nucleophilic aromatic substitution between GSH and CDNB was employed for S-crystallin. The interaction of Tyr7 with the bound GSH lowered the pKa value of the sulfhydryl group of GSH to 6.82-6.85, which is 2.32-2.35 pH unit smaller than that found in aqueous solution. This lowering of pKa value produces the thiolate anion of GSH, a better nucleophile to attack the ipso carbon of CDNB, resulting in formation of Meisenheimer complex intermediate. Removing the chloride ion from this intermediate complex produces the conjugate product. Using the method devised by Wang and Srivastava (Anal. Biochem. 216, 15-26, 1994), the functional unit of the dimeric S-crystallin was estimated to be a monomer. The possible biological implications of the endogenous detoxification ability of cephalopods S-crystallin are discussed.
Glutathione depletion, a major effect of cigarette smoke on biological tissues exposed to high concentrations of smoke, substantially slowed the consumption of tert-butyl hydroperoxide (tBH) in human erythrocytes in vitro, as shown by electron spin resonance (ESR) analyses of the rate of disappearance of extracellular tBH. Glutathione depletion by the reagent 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene induced a structural alteration of intracellular hemoglobin by tBH, which was inferred from an increase in hydrophobicity of erythrocyte proteins. Protein hydrophobicity was analyzed with a new ESR assay comprising detection of an increased binding of both anionic and cationic amphiphilic paramagnetic probes in membrane-depleted hemolysates. An increased affinity of oxidant-damaged proteins for amphiphilic probes was also observed in myoglobin and in protein fractions of erythrocytes treated with tBH subsequent to hemolysis. Smoke exposure enhanced the formation of reactive free radicals from tBH by chelated iron and ascorbate. Reactive radical formation, as monitored by spin-trapping methods, was substantially prolonged in erythrocyte suspensions that had been exposed to cigarette smoke. The results of this study suggest that the susceptibility of cells to peroxide-mediated damage, including damage associated with iron-mediated free radical production, is increased after exposure to high concentrations of cigarette smoke.
Abstract Microsomal glutathione S-transferase-II (GST-II) has recently been discovered and characterized as a member of the 5-lipoxygenase-activating protein (FLAP)/5(S)-hydroxy-6(R)-S-glutathionyl-7,9-trans-11,14-cis-eicosatetraenoic acid (LTC4) synthase gene family, which also includes microsomal glutathione S-transferase-I (GST-I) as a distant member of this gene family. This new enzyme is unique as it is the only member of this family capable of efficiently conjugating reduced glutathione to both 5,6-oxido-7,9,11,14-eicosatetraenoic acid (LTA4) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Although microsomal GST-II has been demonstrated to display both general glutathione S-transferase (GST) and specific LTC4 synthase activities, its biological function remains unknown. In this study, we investigated the physiological location of microsomal GST-II as well as the relative importance of this enzyme versus LTC4 synthase for the production of LTC4 in various human tissues and cells that have been previously demonstrated to possess LTC4 synthase activity. As determined by Western blot, microsomal GST-II was predominantly expressed in human liver microsomes, human endothelial cell membranes, and sparsely detected in human lung membranes. In contrast, LTC4 synthase was prevalent in human lung membranes, human platelet homogenates, and human kidney tissue. Concomitant to the formation of LTC4, microsomal GST-II also produces a new metabolite of LTA4, a postulated LTC4 isomer. This isomer was used to distinguish between microsomal GST-II and LTC4 synthase activities involved in the biosynthesis of LTC4. Based on the relative production of LTC4 to the LTC4 isomer, microsomal GST-II was demonstrated to be the principal enzyme responsible for LTC4 production in human liver microsomes and human endothelial cells and played a minor role in the formation of LTC4 in human lung membranes. In comparison, LTC4 synthase was the main enzyme capable of catalyzing the conjugation of reduced glutathione to LTA4 in human lung membranes and human platelet homogenates. Therefore, microsomal GST-II appears to be an integral component in the detoxification of biological systems due to its marked presence in human liver, in accordance with its known GST activity. Microsomal GST-II, however, may also be pivotal for cysteinyl leukotriene formation in endothelial cells, and this could change our current understanding of the regulation of leukotriene biosynthesis in inflammatory disorders such as asthma.
Adult worms of Schistosoma mansoni recovered from mice treated with oltipraz (OPZ) showed a significant diminution in their ability to reduce 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide (MTT) to formazan, a measure of parasite viability. Incubation of glutathione S-transferase (GST) from S. mansoni with OPZ resulted in a time- and concentration-dependent inhibition of enzyme activity. RP 36 642 (an inactive oxy-derivative of OPZ) had a minimal effect on the viability of the worms and no effect on GST activity. The structural integrity of OPZ, particularly the thione sulphur, appears to be necessary for expression of the antischistosomal effects of the drug. OPZ-induced inhibition of GST was non-competitive with either reduced glutathione (GSH) or 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), indicating that the drug is not a substrate for GST-catalysed conjugation reactions. In addition, the inhibition of GST could not be reversed by dialysis or repurification of the enzyme via a GSH-agarose affinity column. The effects of OPZ on GST activity could render the parasite vulnerable to damage by host-derived reactive oxygen species and aldehydic products of lipid peroxidation. The effects of OPZ on GST activity may play a role in the antischistosomal action of OPZ.
Glutathione S-transferases activity was assayed spectrophotometrically at 25 0C at 340 nm, with 1 mM-GSH and 1 mm-1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrates (Habig et al., 1974; Nimmo et al., 1979) .
CYP1A2 and CYP3A7 were not detected in HSC. The CYP3A4/5 mRNA expression in HSC was accompanied by detectable CYP3A protein and low midazolam oxidation activity. Several GST isoforms, including hGSTM1, hGSTM2, hGSTM4, and hGSTP1, were significantly higher in HSC as compared with total fetal liver. With the exception of hGSTA4, alpha class GST were not detected in HSC. GST expression in HSC was accompanied by substantial GST catalytic activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. In summary, our data indicate that fetal liver CD34 ؉ -derived HSC constitutively express several P450 isoforms at low levels relative to total hepatic cell populations but have a higher capacity for GST conjugation reactions through mu and pi class isoforms. The functional ramifications of these observations are discussed relative to the sensitivity of human fetal HSC to transplacental chemical injury.
Valencene (VAL) isolated from Cyperus rotundus possesses various biological effects such as antiallergic and antimelanogenesis activity. We investigated the effect of VAL on atopic dermatitis (AD) skin lesions and their molecular mechanisms. We topically applied VAL to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB) sensitized NC/Nga mice. Modified scoring atopic dermatitis index, scratching behavior, and histological/immunohistochemical staining were used to monitor disease severity. RT-PCR, western blotting, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay were used to determine the level of IgE, proinflammatory cytokines/chemokines production, and skin barrier proteins expression. Topical application of VAL significantly reduced AD-like symptoms and recovered decreased expression of filaggrin in DNCB-sensitized NC/Nga mice. The levels of serum IgE, IL-1 , IL-6, and IL-13 in skin/splenic tissue were reduced. In vitro studies using TNF-and IFN-treated HaCaT cells revealed that VAL inhibited the exaggerated expression of Th2 chemokines including TARC/CCL17, MDC/CCL22, and proinflammatory chemokines such as CXCL8, GM-CSF, and I-CAM through blockade of the NF-B pathway. In addition, expression of the skin barrier protein, involucrin, was also increased by VAL treatment. VAL inhibited the production and expression of proinflammatory cytokines IL-1 and IL-6 in LPS-stimulated RAW 264.7 cells. These results suggest that VAL may serve as a potential therapeutic option for AD.
Biosensors are attractive candidates for measuring anticancer drugs, but currently few biosensors can achieve this goal. In particular, it is challenging to have a general method to monitor various types of anticancer drugs with different structures. In this work, a biosensor was developed to detect anticancer drugs by modifying carbon paste electrodes with glutathione-s-transferase (GST) enzymes. GST is widely studied in the metabolism of xenobiotics and is a major contributing factor in resistance to anticancer drugs. The measurement of anticancer drugs is based on competition between 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and the drugs for the GST enzyme in the electrochemical potential at 0.1 V vs Ag/AgCl by square wave voltammetry (SWV) or using a colorimetric method. The sensor shows a detection limit of 8.8 M cisplatin and exhibits relatively long life time in daily measurements.
High glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity may contribute to colorectal cancer prevention. Functional polymorphisms are known in the GSTM1, GSTT1, GSTA1 and GSTP1 genes. The influence of these GST polymorphisms and recent fruit and vegetable consumption on GST levels and activity has not been investigated simultaneously in a human population. Also, it is not clear if blood GST activity reflects rectal GST activity. Therefore, we determined GST polymorphisms in 94 patients scheduled for sigmoidoscopy. Rectal GST isoenzyme levels (GSTM1, GSTM2, GSTT1, GSTA and GSTP1) were measured by quantitative western blotting, and rectal and white blood cell total GST activities were measured spectrophotometrically using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as a substrate. Vegetable and fruit consumption was assessed by dietary record. As expected, the GSTM1 and GSTT1 deletion polymorphisms, and the GSTA1 g.-69C!T polymorphism significantly affected the respective isoenzyme levels. Also, rectal GST isoenzyme levels differed between those with and without recent consumption of Alliaceae, Cucurbitaceae, Apiaceae and citrus fruit. Rectal GST activity, however, was not clearly influenced by fruit and vegetable consumption. It was most significantly determined by the GSTP1 c.313A!G polymorphism; compared with the 313AA genotypes, the 313AG and 313GG genotypes showed 36 and 67 nmol/min/mg protein (P < 0.001) lower GST activity, respectively. The correlation between rectal and white blood cell GST activities was low (r ¼ 0.40, P < 0.001), and the relevance of the various genetic and dietary factors appeared to differ between the two tissues. In conclusion, this study indicates that the GST enzyme system is influenced by both GST polymorphisms and consumption of fruits and vegetables. The latter appeared more important for individual rectal GST isoenzyme levels than for total GST activity, which could affect detoxification of isoenzyme-specific substrates. The study results do no support the use of white blood cell GST activity as a surrogate measure for rectal GST activity.
Glutathione S-transferase pi; 1-Cys peroxiredoxin; Heterodimer Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs 1 ), which catalyze the nucleophilic attack by the thiol of glutathione on electrophilic substrates, constitute a family of enzymes important in the detoxification of xenobiotics, endogenous compounds, and the products of oxidative stress [1, 2] . The pi isozyme (GST pi), crystallized as a homodimer with a subunit molecular * Corresponding author. Fax: +1 302 831 6335. rfcolman@chem.udel.edu (R.F. Colman). 1 Abbreviations used: GST, glutathione S-transferase; GST pi, pi-class glutathione S-transferase; 1-Cys Prx, 1-Cysteine peroxiredoxin; Ni-NTA, nickel-nitriloacetic acid agarose; TRIS, tris (hydroxymethyl) aminomethane; EDTA, disodium ethylenediamine tetraacetate; MES, 2-(N-morpholino) ethane-sulfonate; WT, wild-type; GSH, glutathione; CDNB, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene; SDS-PAGE, sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. 
Reduced GSH, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), S-hexylglutathione Sepharose, Shexylglutathione, imidazole, and chemicals for the preparation of buffers were obtained from Sigma Chemical Co. Nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid agarose (Ni-NTA) was purchased from Qiagen, Inc. 1,6-Hexanediol was supplied by ACROS Organics. Synthetic GST pi peptide fragments were obtained from EZBiolab. Centriplus YM-10 concentrators were from Millipore. Staphylococcal Protease V8 was purchased from Worthington Biochemical
Enzymatic activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was measured in a total volume of 1.0 mL using a Hewlett-Packard 8453 spectrophotometer by monitoring the formation of the conjugate of CDNB (3 mM) and GSH (2.5 mM) at 340 nm (Δε = 9600 M −1 cm −1 ) in 0.1 M potassium phosphate buffer (pH 6.5), containing 1 mM EDTA and 2.5% ethanol at 25 °C, according to the method of Habig et al. [15] . An enzyme unit is defined as the amount of enzyme that converts 1 μmol/min of CDNB to the conjugate. All measurements were corrected for the spontaneous nonenzymatic rate of formation of the conjugate of GSH and CDNB.
Glutathione transferase (GST) activity revealed in vacuoles of red beetroot (Beta vulgaris L.) cells was investigated in comparison with the GST activity of plastids and extracts of tissues. The level of GST activity determined by spectrophotometric method proved fairly high in water extracts and membrane fractions of isolated vacuoles and plastids, as well as in water extracts of tissues. In the objects studied, pH dependence of the GST activity slightly differed. Optimal pH for the vacuolar GST activity was in the range 7.0–7.5, for the GST of plastids and tissue extracts it was 7.5. The GSTs differed in specificity to the substrates fluorodifen and ethacrynic acid. The activity of the vacuolar and tissue extract GSTs with fluorodifen was significantly higher than that of the GST from plastids. Ethacrynic acid, often used as a competitive inhibitor of GST, almost completely inhibited the GST activity assayed with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as a main substrate. However, ethacrynic acid was a substrate only for the GSTs of vacuoles and tissue extract, but not for the GST of plastids. Using zymography allowing estimation of the GST activity in a gel after electrophoresis of proteins, several zones of enzymatic activity were revealed in all objects that may correspond to different isozymes. It was found that the composition of the vacuolar GST isoforms and their substrate specificity may differ from the GSTs of other cellular structures. It is assumed that vacuole, having quite high activity of GST, should make a significant contribution to intracellular detoxification processes.
The second-order rate coefficients for aromatic nucleophilic substitution reaction between 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and aniline have been measured in aqueous solutions of ethanol and methanol at 25°C. The plots of rate constants versus mole fraction of water show a maximum in all-aqueous solutions. The effect of four empirical solvent parameters including hydrogen bond donor acidity (α) dipolarity/polarizability (π*) normalized polarity (ENT) and solvophobicity (Sp) has been investigated. This investigation has been carried out by means of simple and multiple regression models. A dual-parameter equation of log k2 versus Sp and α was obtained in all-aqueous solutions (n = 41, r = 0.962, s = 0.053, p = 0.0000). This equation shows that solvophobicity and hydrogen bond donor acidity are important factors in the occurrence of the reaction and they have opposite effects on reaction rate. © 2004 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Int J Chem Kinet 37: 90–97, 2005
The proximal tubule is a frequent target for nephrotoxic compounds due to it's ability to transport and accumulate xenobiotics and their metabolites, as well as by the presence of an organ-selective set of biotransformation enzymes. The aim of the present study was to characterize the activities of different biotransformation enzymes during primary culturing of rat proximal tubular cells (PT cells). Specific marker substrates for determining cytochrome P450 (CYP450) activity of primary cultured PT cells include 7-ethoxyresorufin (CYP1A1), caffeine (CYP1A), testosterone (CY2B/C, CYP3A), tolbutamide (CYP2C) and dextromethorphan (CYP2D1). Activities of the CYP450 isoenzymes decreased considerably during culture with the greatest loss in activity within 24 h of culture. In addition, expression of CYP450 apoprotein, including CYP1A, CYP2C, CYP2D, CYP2E and CYP4A, was detected in microsomes from freshly isolated PT cells by immunoblotting using specific antibodies. CYP2B and CYP3A apoprotein could not be detected. Activity of the phase II biotransformation enzymes GST, GGT, beta-lyase and UGT was determined with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, L-glutamic acid gamma-(7-amido-4-methyl-coumarin), S-(1,1,2,2-tetrafluoroethyl)-L-cysteine and 1-naphthol, respectively, as marker substrates. Activity of the phase II enzymes remained more stable and, in contrast to CYP450 activity, significant activity was still expressed after 1 week of PT cell culture. Thus, despite the obvious advantages of PT cells as an in-vitro model for studies of biotransformation mediated toxicity, the strong time dependency of especially phase I and, to a lesser extent, phase II biotransformation activities confers limitations to their application.
Quinuclidine reacts with 2-iodotropone in benzene to give 1-{2-[N-(7-oxocyclohepta-1,3,5-trien-1-yl)piperidin-4-yl]ethyl}-(II) or 1-(7-oxocyclohepta-1,3,5-trien-1-yl)-1-azoniabicyclo[2,2,2]octane iodide (III), or a mixture of both according to the conditions. Experiments with 2-iodo[3,5,7-2H3]tropone show that the quinuclidine nitrogen atom attacks the 2-position to give compound (III) which kinetic experiments on solutions in dimethyl sulphoxides show to be an intermediate in the formation of (II). The iodide (III) readily rearranges to 2-[4-(2-iodoethyl)piperidino]cyclohepta-2,4,6-trien-1-one (IV). The reaction of 2-chlorotropone with quinuclidine in benzene gives a mixture of the chloride analogues of (II) and (III), whereas in dimethyl sulphoxide, as with 2-bromotropone, only a compound of type (II) is formed with kinetics similar to those for 2-iodotropone. The reaction of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene with quinuclidine in benzene fails to give quaternary salts of type (III); only 1-{2-[N-(2,4-dinitrophenyl)piperidin-4-yl]ethyl}-1-azoniabicyclo[2,2,2]octane chloride is obtained, in low yield.
Culicoides variipennis sonorensis is the primary vector of bluetongue viruses in North America. Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are enzymes that catalyze nucleophilic substitutions, converting reactive lipophilic molecules into soluble conjugates. Increased GST activity is associated with development of insecticide resistance. Described here is the isolation of the first cDNA encoding a C. variipennis GST. The clone consists of 720 translated bases encoding a protein with a Mr of ∼24,800 composed of 219 amino acids. The deduced amino acid sequence is similar (64%–74%) to class Delta (previously named Theta) GSTs from the dipteran genera Musca, Drosophila, Lucilia and Anopheles. The cDNA was subcloned into pET-11b, expressed in Epicurian coli BL21 (DE3) and has a specific activity of ∼28,000 units/mg for the substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene.
Selenium (Se) deficiency in rats produced significant increases in the activity of hepatic glutathione S-transferase (GST) with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate and in various GST isoenzymes when determined by radioimmunoassay. These changes is GST activity and concentration were associated with Se deficiency that was severe enough to provoke decreases of over 98% in hepatic Se-containing glutathione peroxidase activity (Se-GSHpx). However, decreases in hepatic Se-GSHpx of 60% induced by copper (Cu) deficiency had no effect on GST activity or concentration. Increased GST activity in Se deficiency has previously been postulated to be a compensatory response to loss of Se-GSHpx, since some GSTs have a non-Se-glutathione peroxidase (non-Se-GSHpx) activity. However, the GST isoenzymes determined in this study, GST Yb1Yb1, GST YcYc and GST YaYa, are known to have up to 30-fold differences in non-Se-GSHpx activity, but they were all significantly increased to a similar extent in the Se-deficient rats.
1. Glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity in the cytosol of renal cortex and tumours from eight men and eight women was measured using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as a substrate. GST activities ranged from 685 to 2192 nmol/min/mg protein in cortex (median 1213) and from non-detectable (minimum 45) to 2424 nmol/min/mg protein in tumours (median 469).The activities in the tumours were lower than those in the normal cortices (p 0·05). 3. The age of the patients ranged from 42 to 81 years (median 62) and was not found to play a role in the levels of GST activity observed in cortex or in renal tumours from either sex. 4. Immunoblotting and immunohistochemical studies confirmed that GST-α was the predominant form expressed both in normal cortex and tumour and pro...
Mitochondrial thioredoxin reductase was purified from bovine adrenal cortex. The enzyme is a first protein component in the mitochondrial thioredoxin-dependent peroxide reductase system. The purified reductase exhibited an apparent molecular mass of 56 kDa on SDS/PAGE, whereas the native protein was about 100 kDa, suggesting a homodimeric structure. It catalysed NADPH-dependent reduction of 5,5′dithiobis(2-nitrobenzoic acid) and thioredoxins from various origins but not glutathione, oxidized dithiothreitol, dl-α-lipoic acid, or insulin. Amino acid and nucleotide sequence analyses revealed that it had a presequence composed of 21 amino acids which had features characteristic of a mitochondrial targeting signal. The amino acid sequence of the mature protein was similar to that of bovine cytosolic thioredoxin reductase (57%) and of human glutathione reductase (34%) and less similar to that of Escherichia coli (19%) or yeast (17%) enzymes. Human and bovine cytosolic thioredoxin reductase were recently identified to contain selenocysteine (Sec) as one of their amino acid constituents. We also identified Sec in the C-terminal region of mitochondrial (mt)-thioredoxin reductase by means of MS and amino acid sequence analyses of the C-terminal fragment. The four-amino acid motif, Gly-Cys-Sec-Gly, which is conserved among all Sec-containing thioredoxin reductases, probably functions as the third redox centre of the enzyme, as the mitochondrial reductase was inhibited by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, which was reported to modify Sec and Cys covalently. It is known that mammalian thioredoxin reductase is different from bacterial or yeast enzyme in, for example, their subunit molecular masses and domain structures. These two different types of enzymes with similar activity are suggested to have evolved convergently. Our data clearly show that mitochondria, which might have originated from symbiotic prokaryotes, contain thioredoxin reductase similar to the cytosolic enzyme and different from the bacterial one.
Summary ::: The ability of the herbicide safeners, BAS-145138 (1-dichloroacetyl-hexahydro-3,3,8a-trimethyl-pyrrolo(1,2a)pyrimidin-6(2H)-one), dichlormid (N,N-diallyl-2,2-dichloroacetamide), flurazole (phenylmethyl ester), and MG-191 (2-dichloromelhyl-2-methyl-1,3-dioxolane) for preventing metazachlor injury to maize (Zea mays L.) and sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L.) seedlings were compared with their effects on 14C-metazachlor metabolism to a glutathione (GSH) conjugate, effects on non-protein thiol contents (mainly GSH) and effects on Glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity in these two species. ::: ::: Sorghum shoot growth was reduced by 41% and maize shoot growth was reduced by 54%, by metazachlor concentrations in vermiculite nutrient culture of 0·6 μM and 7·5μM, respectively. In this system, all four compounds had significant activity as safeners for metazachlor in both sorghum and maize seedlings. BAS-145138 and flurazole were the most effective safeners in maize and sorghum, respectively. In the absence of safeners, the rate of non-enzymatic conjugation of metazachlor and GSH was much greater than the enzymatic rate. However, the rate of enzymatic conjugation of metazachlor with GSH was increased by safener treatment in both maize and sorghum. Safener effectiveness was highly correlated with increases in 14C-metazachlor uptake and metabolism in both species. Safener effectiveness was more highly correlated with safener effects on GST activity in maize or sorghum when 14C-metazachlor was used as the substrate than when the non-specific CDNB (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene) was used as the substrate. Safener effectiveness was also strongly correlated with safener effects on GSH levels in sorghum, but not in maize, possibly because of the greater importance of non-enzymatic conjugation of metazachlor with GSH in sorghum as compared to maize.
Untreated rabbit liver microsomes demonstrated the highest content of cytochrome P450 and activity of NADPH cytochrome c reductase compared to rat and monkey. The sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of microsomes from untreated rabbit demonstrated a greater quantity of 50 KDa polypeptide than in rat and monkey. The activity of glutathione-S-transferase towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and the band intensity of 26 KDa polypeptide was found to be at maximum in untreated rabbits, while rat liver demonstrated the highest activity of glutathione-S-transferase towards ethacrynic acid. The extent of hepatic microsomal lipid peroxidation was at maximum in untreated rats. The activity of catalase was higher in untreated monkeys compared to untreated rats and rabbits. Lindane at a dose of 10 mg kg-1 body weight for a period of six days increased the hepatic content of cytochrome P450 and the activities of NADPH cytochrome c reductase, aminopyrine N-demethylase, glutathione-S-transferases, haem oxygenase and lipid peroxidation, decreased non-protein thiols and concomitantly intensified the 50 and 26 KDa polypeptides in the microsomes and 100,000 x g supernatants respectively, in the rat but not in the rabbit or monkey. The results demonstrate that lindane is a bifunctional inducer in the rat and non-functional in rabbit and monkey. It also increased the activities of hepatic drug metabolizing enzymes with concomitant production of oxidative stress in the rat, whereas in rabbit and monkey it did not alter the drug metabolizing enzymes nor produced any oxidative stress.
GST-pi can be purified as a major molecular form of glutathione S-transferase (GST) in human placenta. In this paper, the localization of GST-pi as well as of neutral and basic GSTs in the first, second and third trimester placental tissues (10, 3 and 14 samples, respectively) was investigated immunohistochemically using antibodies to acidic GST-pi from the placenta, neutral GST-mu and basic GST-I from the liver. Total GST activity was assayed using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as a substrate, and the relative activity and content of GST-pi were determined by activity inhibition test and single radial immunodiffusion, respectively, on 4 first and 5 third trimester placental tissues. The results obtained were as follows. In early placenta, cytotrophoblasts were strongly stained by anti-GST-pi antibody, while in third placenta mainly syncytiotrophoblasts were stained. GST-mu was stained only in syncytiotrophoblast in early placenta, while basic GST-I was weakly stained in the various cells in early to term placenta. Total GST activity in early and term placentas was 5.8 +/- 2.0 units/g of tissue (mean +/- S.D.) and 14.8 +/- 3.4 units/g, respectively. GST-pi relative activities were 90 +/- 4% and 85 +/- 6%, and GST-pi content was 41 +/- 31 micrograms/g and 106 +/- 29 micrograms/g, respectively. These results indicate that GST-pi is a major form of GST and localized mainly in trophoblasts at any developmental stage of the placenta, and it increases with development.
Hepatic glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity is increased in postpartum female rats, a phenomenon that depends on the lactation stimulus. Here we evaluated the effect of prolactin (PRL) administration on hepatic enzyme activity and on the expression of the major subunits of the alpha- (rGSTA1, rGSTA2, rGSTA3) and mu-classes (rGSTM1, rGSTM2). A similar study was conducted in lactating (LM) and in nonlactating (NLM) mother rats 14 days after delivery and in virgin female rats (V). Ovine PRL (oPRL) was administered to ovariectomized rats at daily doses of 75, 150, 200, and 300 microg/100 g b.wt. (PRL1, PRL2, PRL3, and PRL4, respectively) for 4 consecutive days. GST activity was measured using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate. The relative content of the different subunits was determined by Western blot. oPRL produced a dose-dependent increase in GST activity (60% at the highest dose). Subunit analysis performed in PRL2 and PRL4 revealed a substantial enhancement in rGSTM2 and to a lesser extent in rGSTM1, in response to oPRL. The effect was also dose-dependent. alpha-Class subunits were increased only slightly after hormone treatment. A 60% increase in GST activity was observed for LM relative to NLM and V. As was observed for PRL treatment, the increase was associated with changes in the expression of mu-class subunits whereas alpha-class subunits were not affected by lactation. Taken together these data would indicate a role of PRL in regulating GST activity postpartum via an increase in the content of mu-class subunits, particularly rGSTM2.
Abstract Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are enzymes that catalyze xenobiotic metabolism in the phase II detoxification process. GSTs have a potential for use as indicators or biomarkers to assess the presence of organic and inorganic contaminants in aquatic environments. In this study, a full-length cDNA of a mu (μ) class GST (RpGSTμ) was identified from Manila clam (Ruditapes philippinarum) and biochemically characterized. The 1356 bp of the cDNA included an open reading frame of 651 bp encoding a polypeptide of 217 amino acid residues with a molecular mass of 25.04 kDa and an estimated pI of 6.34. Sequence analysis revealed that the RpGSTμ possessed several characteristic features of μ class GSTs, such as a thioredoxin-like N-terminal domain containing binding sites for glutathione (GSH), a C-terminal domain containing substrate binding sites, and a μ loop. The recombinant RpGSTμ (rRpGSTμ) protein exhibited GSH-conjugating catalytic activity towards several substrates, and significantly strong activity was detected against 4-nitrophenethyl bromide (5.77 ± 0.55) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB, 3.19 ± 0.05). Kinetic analysis as a function of GSH and CDNB concentrations revealed relatively low Km values of 1.03 ± 0.46 mM and 0.56 ± 0.20 mM, respectively, thereby indicating a GSH-conjugation attributed with high rates. The optimum pH and temperature for the catalytic activity of the rRpGSTμ protein were 7.7 and 37 °C, respectively. The effect of two inhibitors, Cibacron blue and hematin, on the activity of rRpGSTμ was evaluated and the IC50 values of 0.65 μM and 9 μM, respectively, were obtained. While RpGSTμ transcripts were highly expressed in gills and hemocytes, a significant elevation in mRNA levels was detected in these tissues after lipopolysaccharide (LPS), polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid (poly I:C) and live bacterial (Vibrio tapetis) challenges. These findings collectively suggest that RpGSTμ functions as a potent detoxifier of xenobiotic toxicants present in the aquatic environment, and that its mRNA expression could be modulated by pathogenic stress signal(s).
Cytosolic glutathione transferase (GST) was investigated in four human livers. The profile of GST activity was determined by isoelectric focusing using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as the electrophilic substrate. Three livers contained at least one basic and a near-neutral isoenzyme (GST mu). GST mu was not detectable in the fourth liver. The kinetics of GST with styrene oxide as the electrophilic substrate were studied in the cytosolic fraction, with the pooled fractions from isoelectric focusing containing high activity of GST mu transferase, and with GST mu purified to homogeneity. The cytosol obeyed Michaelis-Menten kinetics when styrene oxide was used as the variable substrate. The average (+/- s.e.m.) of the Vmax and Km were 21.9 +/- 7.9 nmol min-1mg-1 and 4.9 +/- 0.4 mM, respectively. At varying concentrations of glutathione, the enzyme did not obey Michaelis-Menten kinetics. Such kinetics were also observed with the fractions from isoelectric focusing and with the homogeneous GST mu fraction. The Eadie-Hofstee plot showed two phases: one with a low and another with a high Km value. The apparent Km values for the cytosol were 0.035 +/- 0.022 and 0.88 +/- 0.36 mM. The kinetic pattern of purified GST mu is consistent with that found in the cytosol.
Abstract A specific radioimmunoassay (RIA) has been developed that has sufficient sensitivity to allow measurement of the changes in plasma and tissue glutathione S -transferase (GST) YaYa concentrations which occur following thyroid hormone administration in the rat. Using the RIA it was demonstrated that the only tissues that had significant amounts of GST YaYa were liver, small gut and kidney. Administration of triiodothyronine (T 3 ) or thyroxine (T 4 ) resulted in increases in plasma GST YaYa concentration and in animals given high doses of T 4 plasma alanine aminotransferase activity was also elevated. Thyroid hormone administration produced a significant fall in the hepatic content of GST YaYa and in total GST activity, as assessed using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrate. It is concluded that the elevated plasma GST YaYa concentrations observed following administration of thyroid hormones result from hepatic damage, not from induction of hepatic synthesis of the enzyme.
A cDNA encoding glutathione S-transferase (GST) of the fall webworm, Hyphantria cunea, was cloned by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. The resulting clone (hcGST) was sequenced and deduced for amino acid sequence, which revealed 87, 59, and 42% identities to Sigma-class GSTs from Bombyx mori, Manduca sexta, and Blattella germanica respectively. A recombinant hcGST protein (rhcGST) was functionally overexpressed in Escherichia coli cells in a soluble form and purified to homogeneity. rhcGST retained more than 75% of its original GST activity after incubation at pHs 6 to 11. Incubation for 30 min at temperatures below 50 degrees C scarcely affected the activity. rhcGST was able to catalyze the reaction of glutathione with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, a universal substrate for GST, as well as with 4-hydroxynonenal, a product of lipid peroxidation. We also found that as compared to B. mori Sigma-class GST, rhcGST had a higher affinity for fenitrothion, an organophosphorus insecticide.
Abstract To test the proposition that a histidine residue is essential in the catalytic mechanism of glutathione S-transferase, rat liver isoenzyme 3-3 specifically labeled with [ring-2-13C]histidine was prepared. The 13C NMR spectrum of the labeled enzyme revealed four resonances corresponding to the 4 histidine residues in the mu gene class type 3 subunit. Titration of the four resonances in the range of pH 4-9 both in the presence and absence of glutathione gave pK alpha values of much less than 4, 5.2, 7.1, and 7.8 for the four side chains that were identified by site-specific mutagenesis as His14, His83, His84, and His167, respectively. The magnetic resonance properties and titration behavior of His14 suggest that this residue is buried in a hydrophobic environment. Conservative replacement of each histidine with asparagine results in mutant enzymes that have catalytic properties very close to the native protein as assessed with three different substrates, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 4-phenyl-3-buten-2-one, and phenanthrene 9,10-oxide. The results indicate clearly that none of the histidine residues of isoenzyme 3-3 is essential for stabilization of the bound glutathione thiolate or for any other aspect of catalysis.
Effects of twelve flavonoids and five catechins as well as gallic acid on two kinds of glutathione-related enzymes were investigated. Glutathione 5-transferase (EC 2.5.1.18) activity was measured by S-2,4-dinitrophenyl glutathione formation from 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and reduced glutathione. Glutathione reductase (EC 1.6.4.2) activity was followed by NADPH dehydrogenation. Fisetin and myricetin were potent inhibitors of glutathione S-transferase, while kaempferol, quercetin, baicalein, and quercitrin were medium inhibitors. Epicatechin gallate and epigallocatechin gallate also showed medium inhibition. Kinetic analyses indicated that fisetin was a mixed type inhibitor of glutathione S-transferase with respect to both substrates, while myricetin was a competitive inhibitor of the same enzyme with both substrates. Fisetin and myricetin were noncompetive inhibitors of glutathione reductase with both NADPH and oxidized glutathione. The inhibition patterns of GT and GR as well as the results of kinetic a...
Abstract A study was carried out to examine the use of glutathione S-transferase (GST) in freshwater bivalves as a short-term biochemical marker for organic contaminants. In contrast with earlier reports, induction of GST activity towards 1-Chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was not found in any of the experiments performed. These included 10–12 days exposures to sediments spiked with 2,3′,4,4′,5-pentachlorobiphenyl, benzo[a]pyrene or lindane and 7–8 days exposures to dieldrin, lindane or benzo[a]pyrene in a water-only system. A nonsignificant decrease in GST activity (ca. − 20%) was found at the highest sediment concentration of lindane (10,000 μg/kg) and at the highest water concentrations of dieldrin (4.9 and 29 μg/l). Between experiments differences in GST activity were found that were ascribed to seasonal influences and maintenance in the laboratory. It is concluded that under the applied conditions glutathione S-transferase activity of Sphaerium corneum towards CDNB is not a suitable short-term biomarker with respect to the toxicants tested.
Studies of glutathione S-transferase (GST) induction were performed in the Mediterranean clam Ruditapes decussatus after controlled exposure to organics in holding tanks. Clams were treated with phenobarbital (PB), benzo[a]pyrene (BaP), and 2,2-bis-(p-chlorophenyl)-1,1-dichlorethylene (p,p'-DDE). Three different substrates, i.e., 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), ethacrynic acid (ETHA), and paranitrobenzene chloride (PNBC), were used to determine GST activities in order to distinguish the isoenzymes induced by contamination. The isoforms conjugating ETHA were significantly induced by treatment with PB and BaP, whereas exposure to p,p'-DDE induced isoforms conjugating CDNB and ETHA. An antibody against affinity-purified GSTs from R. decussatus was prepared by injection into rabbit. The serum containing the antibody gave a positive reaction with both the purified GSTs from R. decussatus and the low molecular weight GSTs from rat. Subcellular fractions from both control and treated animals were analyzed by Western blot. Cytosolic extracts from clams contaminated with PB and p,p'-DDE showed a 24-kDa band in addition to the 26-kDa band recognized by the antibody. Results of these studies suggest that, in R. decussatus, organics may induce GSTs belonging to the pi class.
Two ATP-dependent efflux systems for methotrexate have been identified in inside-out vesicles from an L1210 mouse cell variant with a defective influx carrier for methotrexate. Transport at 40 muM [3H]methotrexate was separated by inhibitors into two components comprising 62 and 38% of total transport activity. The predominant route was inhibited by low concentrations of indoprofen (Ki=2.5 muM, 4-biphenylacetic acid (Ki=5.3 muM), and flurbiprofen (Ki=5.2 muM, whereas the second component showed a high sensitivity to the glutathione conjugates of bromosulfophthalein (Ki=0.08 muM), ethacrynic acid (Ki=0.52 muM, and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (Ki=0.77 muM). Bilirubin ditaurate was a potent inhibitor of both transport components (Ki=1.5 and 0.17 muM, respectively). Separation of transport activities without interference from the other route was achieved by adding an excess (100 muM) of either the glutathione conjugate of ethacrynic acid or biphenylacetic acid. Double-reciprocal plots of transport at various substrate concentrations gave Km values of 170 and 250 muM for methotrexate transport via the anion-sensitive and conjugate-sensitive routes, respectively. A comparison of inhibitor specificities indicated that the anion-sensitive transport activity in vesicles represents efflux system II for methotrexate in intact cells and is the same system identified previously in vesicles as an anion/anion conjugate pump. The conjugate-sensitive activity corresponds to efflux system I for methotrexate in intact cells and is the same system identified in vesicles as the high-affinity glutathione conjugate pump.
A cDNA encoding glutathione S-transferase (GST) of the fall webworm, Hyphantria cunea, was cloned by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. The resulting clone (hcGST) was sequenced and deduced for amino acid sequence, which revealed 87, 59, and 42% identities to Sigma-class GSTs from Bombyx mori, Manduca sexta, and Blattella germanica respectively. A recombinant hcGST protein (rhcGST) was functionally overexpressed in Escherichia coli cells in a soluble form and purified to homogeneity. rhcGST retained more than 75% of its original GST activity after incubation at pHs 6 to 11. Incubation for 30 min at temperatures below 50 C scarcely affected the activity. rhcGST was able to catalyze the reaction of glutathione with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, a universal substrate for GST, as well as with 4-hydroxynonenal, a product of lipid peroxidation. We also found that as compared to B. mori Sigma-class GST, rhcGST had a higher affinity for fenitrothion, an organophosphorus insecticide.
Abstract A wide distribution of glutathione S-transferase activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 1,2-dichloro-4-dinitrobenzene has been detected in a range of non-transformed, transformed and hybrid cell lines. The levels of transferase activity are lower in these in vitro cell lines than are corresponding in vivo levels. A majority of the cell lines tested contain proteins that are antigenically related to rat liver glutathione S-transferase B (ligandin).
A complementary DNA that encodes an omega-class glutathione S-transferase (GST) of the brown planthopper, Nilaparvata lugens (nlGSTO), was isolated by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction. A recombinant protein (nlGSTO) was obtained via overexpression in the Escherichia coli cells and purified. nlGSTO catalyzes the biotransformation of glutathione with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, a general substrate for GST, as well as with dehydroascorbate to synthesize ascorbate. Mutation experiments revealed that putative substrate-binding sites, including Phe28, Cys29, Phe30, Arg176, and Lue225, were important for glutathione transferase and dehydroascorbate reductase activities. As ascorbate is a reducing agent, nlGSTO may participate in antioxidant resistance.
The association between glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity as measured by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) conjugation and genotype at exon 5 and exon 6 of the human GSTP1 gene was investigated in normal lung tissue obtained from 34 surgical patients. These samples were genotyped for previously identified polymorphisms in exon 5 (Ile105Val) and exon 6 (Ala114Val) by PCR-RFLP and direct sequencing. GST enzyme activity was significantly lower among individuals with the 105 Val allele. Homozygous Ile/Ile samples (n = 18) had a mean cytosolic CDNB conjugating activity of 74.9 +/- 3.8 nmol/mg per min; heterozygotes (n = 13) had a mean specific activity of 62.1 +/- 4.2 nmol/mg per min and homozygous Val/Val (n = 3) had a mean specific activity of 52.5 +/- 4.5 nmol/mg per min. The CDNB conjugating activity measured for the Ile/Ile genotype group was significantly different from that observed in the Ile/Val group (P = 0.03), and from Ile/Val and Val/Val genotypes combined (P = 0.009). Mean GST activity values were consistently lower in individuals with genotypes containing the 105 valine allele, regardless of smoking exposure. Genotypes at codon 114 were also assessed but the mean GST activity was not significantly lower in individuals with the 114 valine allele. A new haplotype, present in two samples who were homozygous 105Ile and had a 114Val, was identified and proposed as GSTP1*D. Frequencies of the exon 5 and exon 6 polymorphisms were determined in samples obtained from European-Americans, African-Americans and Taiwanese. The differences observed were highly significant suggesting the possibility of GSTP1 genotype-associated, ethnic differences in cancer susceptibility and chemotherapeutic response.
1 ::: S-Conjugates of glutathione influence the glutathione/glutathione disulfide (GSH/GSSG) status of hepatocytes in at least two ways, namely by inhibition of GSSG transport into the bile [Akerboom et al. (1982) FEBS Lett. 140, 73–76] and by inhibition of the enzyme GSSG reductase (EC 1.6.4.2). ::: ::: 2 ::: The interaction of GSSG reductase with a well-studied conjugate, namely S-(2,4-dinitrophenyl)-glutathione and its electrophilic precursor 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene are described. For short exposures both compounds are reversible inhibitors of the enzyme, the Ki values being 30 μM and 22 μM respectively. After prolonged incubation, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene blocks GSSG reductase irreversibly, which emphasizes the need for rapid conjugate formation in situ. ::: ::: 3 ::: As shown by X-ray crystallography the major binding site of S-(2,4-dinitrophenyl)-glutathione in GSSG reductase overlaps the binding site of the substrate, glutathione disulfide. However, the glutathione moiety of the conjugate does not bind in the same manner as either of the glutathiones in the disulfide.
Abstract Cytochrome P-450-dependent and independent metabolism of xenobiotics in the liver of C57BL/10ScSn male mice was investigated in relation to age and the age-related differences in response to treatment with polyriboinosinic-polyribocytidylic acid (poly IC), an interferon inducing agent. Young (3 months), middle-aged (15 months) and old (27 months) animals were studied. Mean survival time of males of this strain is 30–33 months. Age-related changes in the metabolism of xenobiotics included significant decreases between middle and old age in activities of the microsomal P-450-dependent mixed function oxidases (MFO), aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase (AHH) and p-nitroanisole (pNA) O-demethylase, but not 7-ethoxy-coumarin (7-Ec) O-deethylase. Analysis of P-450-independent enzymes revealed a significant decrease in the epoxide hydrolase activity in the microsomes and cytosol from old compared to middle-aged or young mice. Glutathione S-transferase activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was lower in cytosols of middle-aged and old than young mice. Carboxy-lesterase activity was not altered by age. Hepatic microsomal protein content was significantly higher in middle-aged and old than in young mice. Intraperitoneal treatment with a single dose of 5 mg/kg poly IC 24 hours before sacrifice resulted, for mice of all age groups, in a marked inhibition of activities of all 3 microsomal cytochrome P-450-dependent enzymes, without any changes in activities of the P-450-independent enzymes. The inhibition of AHH by poly IC was much higher in old and middle-aged than in yo3ng mice, averaging 87.1%, 74.5%, and 41.9%, respectively, in the 3 age groups. Poly IC treatment increased lipid peroxidation in liver homogenates of all groups of mice. Body and liver weights were not altered in animals of the 3 age groups by poly IC treatment, but hepatic microsomal protein contents were significantly decreased.
The effect of aging on epoxide hydrolase (EH) and glutathion-S-transferase (GST) activities was investigated in testes of C57BL/6 mice 1-30 months of age. Microsomal EH (mEH) activity, as monitored with cis-stilbene oxide (CSO), showed statistically insignificant changes throughout the lifespan of mice. Although cytosolic EH (cEH) was detected in testes by immunoblotting, the enzyme activity towards trans-stilbene oxide (TSO) could not be measured under the experimental conditions used. Gonadal GST monitored with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrate displayed an increasing trend until the mice reached senescence, showing a 3.7-fold increase in the enzyme activity in old animals (30 months) when compared with that in young animals (2 months). However, with CSO as substrate, GST showed no change in activity in mice of different ages.
Abstract 1. The activities of aldrin epoxidase, NADPH cytochrome c reductase, and glutathione S -transferase (GST) towards 1,2-dichloro-4-nitro benzene (DCNB), and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) in peach-potato aphids ( Myzus persicae Sulzer) on swedes ( Brassica napus rapifera Metzger) were respectively 0.4, 1.6, 2.0, and 4.6 times the corresponding activities in aphids on paprika ( Capsicum annuum L.). 2. Isoelectric focusing and SDS-PAGE of a GSH-affinity chromatography eluate with high CDNB and DCNB activities revealed the presence of one protein with pI 7.7 and a subunit molecular weight of 23 kDa in aphids on paprika. The corresponding values of a protein purified by the same methods from aphids on swedes were pI 4.9 and 24 kDa. 3. The change in GST isozyme following the change of host plant appeared to be a physiological adaptation process connected to the preceeding host plant and not heritable to aphids bom on the new host.
Curcumin, a yellow compound naturally occurring in the plant Curcuma longa Linn, was studied for its in vivo short term and long term effects on the activities of some glutathione S-transferase (GST) and cytochrome P450 isozymes in livers of rats. The rats were fed 1% curcumin in an AIN 76 diet which contained 15% protein for a duration of approximately two weeks for short term studies and for a duration of approximately six weeks for long term studies. Glutathione S-transferase (GST) activities were measured in liver cytosols by using 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB) as substrates. Cytochrome P450 1A1/2 and 2B1 activities were measured as ethoxyresorufin deethylation (EROD) and pentoxyresorufin depentylation (PROD) respectively in liver microsomes. Curcumin treatment was found to significantly inhibit GST activities in the long term studies as compared to controls when CDNB and DCNB were used as substrates. There was no significant inhibition of glutathione S-transferase (GST) activities by curcumin in the short term studies, as compared to controls. Curcumin treatment in both the short term and long term studies showed no significant effects on cytochrome P450 IAI/2 and 2Bl activities, as compared to controls. In vitro, curcumin was found to be a potent inhibitor of cytochrome P450 1A1/2 and 2B1 activities. These results suggest that short term administration of curcumin can lead to no significant effects on glutathione S-transferase (GST) and cytochrome P450 activities. However, long term administration of curcumin can lead to inhibition of glutathione S-transferase activities (GST) but no significant effects on cytochrome P450 activities.
We have reported previously (C. N. Robson et al., Cancer Res., 46: 6290-6294, 1986) the isolation of a Chinese hamster ovary cell line, designated CHO-Chlr, that exhibits resistance to bifunctional nitrogen mustards while maintaining the normal parental level of sensitivity to several other alkylating agents. We have compared the rate of formation and repair of DNA cross-links induced by mechlorethamine in CHO-Chlr and parental CHO-K1 cells, both in intact cells and in isolated nuclei. Equimolar doses of mechlorethamine induce significantly fewer DNA interstrand cross-links in CHO-Chlr cells than in CHO-K1 cells, but levels of DNA-protein adducts are approximately equivalent in the two lines. There is a correlation between the relative resistance of CHO-Chlr cells to mechlorethamine (34-fold) and the amount of drug required to induce approximately equal numbers of DNA interstrand cross-links in the two cell lines. This strongly implicates DNA-DNA adducts in the cytotoxic action of mechlorethamine. DNA cross-linking studies on isolated nuclei reveal only minor differences between the two lines even with identical drug treatments. The rate of cross-link repair is comparable in the two cell lines. These results, taken together with our earlier observation that the rate of drug accumulation is identical in these two lines, suggest that enhanced cytoplasmic drug detoxification is the underlying resistance mechanism in CHO-Chlr cells. We have measured cellular glutathione S-transferase activity, using both the general substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, and substrates with some specificity for the different classes of transferase isoenzymes. Total enzyme activity (as measured with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene) is elevated 3-fold in the resistant cells. A 2- and 5-fold increase, respectively, in activity against ethacrynic acid and cumene hydroperoxide is detectable in CHO-Chlr cells. This elevation in catalytic activity in the resistant cells is reflected in higher levels of both the Yf- and Ya-type transferase subunits.
Glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity of 10 house sy laboratory strains and 21 Þeld populations are described with two substrates, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and 3,4- dichloronitro-benzene (DCNB), commonly associated with resistance. Three laboratory strains se- lected by tetrachlorvinphos, lindane (-HCH) and dimethoate, respectively, had signiÞcantly ele- vated CDNB- and DCNB-GST activities. The multiresistant Þeld population 791a had signiÞcantly elevated CDNB- and DCNB-GST activities. Many strains recorded several individuals with high CDNB- and/or DCNB-GST activity and to evaluate these differences, phenotypes were deÞned by cluster analysis. A phenotype, GST-R, indicating high CDNB- and DCNB-GST activities, was found in 23 of 31 laboratory strains or Þeld populations. GST-R was likely to be involved in-HCH resistance in strain 17e, tetrachlorvinphos resistance in strain 39m2b, and dimethoate resistance in strain 49r2b. The frequency of GST-R in selected laboratory strains and Þeld population correlated with the frequency of house sies surviving the organophosphate azamethiphos either topically applied or by ingestion. There was no signiÞcant correlation between GST activity and the toxicity of the organo- phosphate dimethoate or the pyrethroids bioresmethrin and pyrethrin.
Aldose reductase is believed to be involved in teh etiology of diabetic complications, including cataractogenesis, nephropathy, and neuropathy. AL-1576 and AL-4114, two spirohydantoin aldose reductase inhibitors, were specifically developed for prevention of diabetic cataractogenesis. This study has determined whether AL-1576 and AL-4114 are inducers of biotransformation by assaying the activities of some phase I and phase II enzymes in the liver, kidney, intestine, and five ocular tissues (cornea, lens, iris-ciliary body, retina, and choroid). The aldose reductase inhibitors were administered topically (the intended route for use in preventing cataractogenesis) in two concentrations (0.5 and 5.0%) each 3 times/day to both eyes of New Zealand white rabbits for 14 days. Lenticular aldose reductase activity was decreased by 30-75% by the aldose reductase inhibitors. Monooxygenase activity toward benzo(a)pyrene, ethoxyresorufin, and methoxycoumarin was not increased by AL-1576 or AL-4114 treatment in any tissue. Activities of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene glutathione S-transferase, 2-naphthol sulfotransferase, and 1-naphthol UDP-glucuronosyltransferase were not significantly induced in the eight tissues. Clearly, ocular dosing with AL-4114 and AL-1576 for 14 days had little effect on hepatic, intestinal, and ocular biotransformation.
Abstract The effect of prolonged exposure to buthionine sulfoximine (BSO) on rat hepatic Phase I and Phase II drug-metabolizing enzymes has been examined. Exposure to 30 mM BSO in drinking water for 7 days induced hepatic microsomal UDP-glucuronosyltransferase activity (detergent-activated) toward p -nitrophenol (250%), 1-naphthol (210%), morphine (130%) and testosterone (140%), but not estrone. Glucuronosyltransferase activities were also induced after exposure for as short as 3 and as long as 13 days. When rats were returned to unsupplemented drinking water for 1 day prior to sacrifice following 6 days on 30 mM BSO, comparable induction to that seen after 7 consecutive days on the BSO solution was observed despite liver glutathione concentration having rebounded to 127% of control. Daily ingestion of BSO was similar (1 mmol/rat/day) for all periods of 30 mM BSO-drinking water exposure, with a body weight-adjusted dose range of 3.2–6.3 mmol/kg/day. An analogous inductive response caused by drinking 30 mM BSO for 3 days was elicited for p -nitrophenol and morphine glucuronidation by 6 mmol/kg doses of BSO given as single daily intraperitoneal or intragastric injections for 3 days. Intraperitoneal, intragastric and all BSO-drinking water exposures also significantly induced (130–195%) cytosolic glutathione S -transferase activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Significant increases in UDP-glucuronosyltranferase and glutathione S -transerase activities were also observed following 3 days of exposure to BSO in the drinking water at a concentration as low as 5 mM. Cytosolic p -nitrophenol sulfotransferase activity, with one minor exception, was not enhanced by any BSO treatment regimen. Alterations in transferase activities were not accompanied by any major changes in either overall cytochrome P -450 concentration or oxidative reactions selective for two isozymes. Thus, in addition to its well-documented glutathione-depleting property, BSO also selectively induces several Phase II drug-metabolizing enzymes, and effect to be considered in studies employing extended BSO treatment.
Conventional aerobic nitrification was adversely affected by single pulse inputs of six different classes of industrially relevant chemical toxins: an electrophilic solvent (1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, CDNB), a heavy metal (cadmium), a hydrophobic chemical (1-octanol), an uncoupling agent (2,4-dinitrophenol, DNP), alkaline pH, and cyanide in its weak metal complexed form. The concentrations of each chemical source that caused 15, 25, and 50% respiratory inhibition of a nitrifying mixed liquor during a short-term assay were used to shock sequencing batch reactors containing nitrifying conventional activated sludge. The reactors were monitored for recovery over a period of 30 days or less. All shock conditions inhibited nitrification, but to different degrees. The nitrate generation rate (NGR) of the shocked reactors recovered over time to control reactor levels and showed that it was a more sensitive indicator of nitrification inhibition than both initial respirometric tests conducted on unexposed biomass and effluent nitrogen species analyses. CDNB had the most severe impact on nitrification, followed by alkaline pH 11, cadmium, cyanide, octanol, and DNP. Based on effluent data, cadmium and octanol primarily inhibited ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (AOB) while CDNB, pH 11, and cyanide inhibited both AOB and nitrite-oxidizing bacteria (NOB). DNP initially inhibited nitrification but quickly increased the NGR relative to the control and stimulated nitrification after several days in a manner reflective of oxidative uncoupling. The shocked mixed liquor showed trends toward recovery from inhibition for all chemicals tested, but in some cases this reversion was slow. These results contribute to our broader effort to identify relationships between chemical sources and the process effects they induce in activated sludge treatment systems.
Abstract Background The skin acts as a barrier to protect organisms against harmful exogenous agents. Compound K (CK) is an active metabolite of ginsenoside Rb1, Rb2 and Rc, and researchers have focused on its skin protective efficacy. In this study, we hypothesized that increased expression of the serine protease inhibitor Kazal type-5 (SPINK5) may improve skin barrier function. Methods We screened several ginsenosides to increase SPINK5 gene promoter activity using a transactivation assay and found that CK can increase SPINK5 expression. To investigate the protective effect of CK on the skin barrier, RT-PCR and Western blotting were performed to investigate the expression levels of SPINK5, Kallikrein 5 (KLK5), KLK7 and PAR2 in UVB-irradiated HaCaT cells. Measurement of transepidermal water loss (TEWL) and histological changes associated with the skin barrier were performed in a UVB-irradiated mouse model and a 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB)-induced atopic dermatitis-like model. Results CK treatment increased the expression of SPINK5 and decreased the expression of its downstream genes, such as KLKs and PAR2. In the UVB-irradiated mouse model and the DNCB-induced atopic dermatitis model, CK restored increased TEWL and decreased hydration and epidermal hyperplasia. In addition, CK normalized the reduced SPINK5 expression caused by UVB or DNCB, thereby restoring the expression of the proteins involved in desquamation to a level similar to normal. Conclusions Our data showed that CK contributes to improving skin barrier function in UVB-irradiated and DNCB-induced atopic dermatitis-like models through SPINK5. These results suggest that therapeutic attempts with CK might be useful in treating barrier-disrupted diseases.
1. Four different rat glutathione S-transferase (GST) isoenzymes, belonging to three different classes, were examined for their GSH conjugating capacity towards 11 2-substituted 1-chloro-4-nitrobenzene derivatives. Significant differences were found in their enzyme kinetic parameters Km, kcat and kcat/Km. 2. Substrates with bulky substituents on the ortho-position appeared to have high affinities (low Km's) for the active site of the GST-isoenzymes, suggesting that there is sufficient space in this area of the active site. A remarkably high Km (low affinity) was found for 2-chloro-5-nitropyridine towards all GST-isoenzymes examined. 3. GST 3-3 catalysed the reaction between GSH and the substrates most efficiently (high kcat) compared with the other GST-isoenzymes. Moreover, GST 3-3 showed clear substrate selectivities towards the substrates with a trifluoromethyl-, chlorine- and bromine-substituent. 1-Chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 2-chloro-5-nitrobenzonitrile were most efficiently conjugated by all four GST-isoenzymes examined. 4. When the rate of the conjugation reactions was followed, a linear increase of formation of GS-conjugate could be seen for 2-chloro-5-nitrobenzonitrile during a much longer period of time than for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene with all GST-isoenzymes examined. Therefore, it is suggested that 2-chloro-5-nitrobenzonitrile might be recommended as an alternative model substrate in GST-research.
The glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) of hepatic cytosol of rats, mice, guinea pigs, rabbits and hamsters were simultaneously investigated with respect to substrate specificity, subunit composition and elution profile of GSTs. The activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was the highest in hamsters, followed by rabbits, guinea pigs, mice and rats. On the analysis of SDS-PAGE, Ya subunit band of GST was detected in only rats, not others. There was also seen a marked species difference in elution profile of GST activity on S-sepharose column. The elution patterns from rats, mice and rabbits were quite different from hamsters and guinea pigs.
The in vitro interaction of organic copper (II) compounds with rat liver glutathione S-transferases (GST) was studied using reduced glutathione (GSH) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) as substrates. The inhibition of the GST activity was dose dependent. The different GST isoenzymes were inhibited to different degrees. Kinetic studies never revealed competitive inhibition. Titration of remaining GSH in appropriate incubation mixtures with organic copper (II) compounds revealed no GST catalyzed conjugation of these compounds with GSH. These experiments showed a spontaneous conjugation of the copper (II) compounds with GSH, explaining the parabolic inhibition observed in the kinetic studies with GSH as the variable substrate. Both organic and inorganic copper (II) are spontaneously conjugated with GSH, but interact with GST by direct binding to these proteins. This binding could have a protective function against copper (II).
The association between glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity as measured by 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) conjugation and genotype at exon 5 and exon 6 of the human GSTP1 gene was investigated in normal lung tissue obtained from 34 surgical patients. These samples were genotyped for previously identified polymorphisms in exon 5 (Ile105Val) and exon 6 (Ala114Val) by PCR-RFLP and direct sequencing. GST enzyme activity was significantly lower among individuals with the 105 Val allele. Homozygous Ile/Ile samples (n ⍧ 18) had a mean cytosolic CDNB conjugating activity of 74.9 ⍨ 3.8 nmol/mg per min; heterozygotes (n ⍧ 13) had a mean specific activity of 62.1 Ϯ 4.2 nmol/mg per min and homozygous Val/Val (n ⍧ 3) had a mean specific activity of 52.5 ⍨ 4.5 nmol/ mg per min. The CDNB conjugating activity measured for the Ile/Ile genotype group was significantly different from that observed in the Ile/Val group (P ⍧ 0.03), and from Ile/Val and Val/Val genotypes combined (P ⍧ 0.009). Mean GST activity values were consistently lower in individuals with genotypes containing the 105 valine allele, regardless of smoking exposure. Genotypes at codon 114 were also assessed but the mean GST activity was not significantly lower in individuals with the 114 valine allele. A new haplotype, present in two samples who were homozygous 105Ile and had a 114Val, was identified and proposed as GSTP1*D. Frequencies of the exon 5 and exon 6 polymorphisms were determined in samples obtained from European-Americans, African-Americans and Taiwanese. The differences observed were highly significant suggesting the possibility of GSTP1 genotype-associated, ethnic differences in cancer susceptibility and chemotherapeutic response.
Glutathione transferases (GSTs*) consist of a super-family of dimeric phase II metabolic enzymes that catalyze the conjugation of reduced glutathione with electrophilic groups of a wide variety of compounds. In general, the reactions catalyzed by GSTs are considered detoxifying, and serve to protect cellular macromolecules from damage caused by cytotoxic and carcino-genic agents (1, 2) . In some cases, however, glutathione conjugation can result in chemical intermediates that may be more reactive than the parent compounds (3) . Biochemical characteristics separate the cytosolic GST isozymes into four major classes: alpha, mu, theta and pi (4) . Different classes of GSTs have distinct substrate specificities, although some substrates, such as 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), are conjugated by several classes (2) . GST composition varies among tissues and the particular combination of GSTs expressed in a tissue may influence detoxifying capability (2) . There is evidence to suggest that GSTs are involved in the metabolism of chemotherapeutic agents, and that they are over-expressed in tumors that are refractory to treatment (5) . GST isoforms have been shown to be polymorphic (GSTM1 and GSTT1) resulting in reduced enzyme activity (6) (7) (8) , and may confer an increased risk for developing specific types of cancer (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) .
