Pregnant women are a unique group undergoing profound structural modifications in uterus, breast, adipose tissue and extracellular fluids. Amino acid metabolic stress is a unique physical process that occurs during pregnancy. Metals constitute a fundamental part of the maternal body and have a universal effect on amino acid metabolism. However, the exact interaction between metals and amino acid metabolism during pregnancy is unknown. The aim of the present study was to determine the correlations of metals with amino acid metabolic intermediates in the urine of 232 healthy pregnant women in their first, second and third trimesters during normal pregnancy. Sixteen metals in the urine of 232 healthy pregnant women in their first, second and third trimesters were quantified using inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS). An ultra-performance liquid chromatography quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometer (UPLC-QTOFMS)-based metabolomics approach was conducted to detect intermediate products involved in amino acid metabolism during the entire pregnancy period. A panel regression model was established to investigate the relationship between urine metals and amino acid metabolism. Seven metals—cadmium, cobalt, copper, cesium, manganese, thallium and vanadium—showed significant association with amino acid metabolic intermediates, including 2-oxoarginine, 3-indoleacetonitrile, indole, indole-5,6-quinone, N2-succinyl-L-glutamic acid 5-semialdehyde, N-methyltryptamine and N-succinyl-L,L-2,6-diaminopimelate, in the healthy pregnant women. These findings indicated that exposure to cadmium, cobalt, copper, cesium, manganese, thallium and vanadium significantly affected the metabolic status of tryptophan, arginine, proline, tyrosine and lysine metabolism in the maternal body during normal pregnancy.
Malignant glioma is one of the most lethal adult cancers, yet its etiology remains largely unknown. We conducted a prospective serum metabolomic analysis of glioma based on 64 cases and 64 matched controls selected from Alpha-Tocopherol, BetaCarotene Cancer Prevention (ATBC) Study. Median time from collection of baseline fasting serum to diagnosis was nine years (inter-decile range 3-20 years). LC/MS-MS identified 730 known metabolites, and conditional logistic regression models estimated odds ratios for one-standard deviation differences in log-metabolite signals. Forty-three metabolites were associated with glioma at P<0.05. 2-Oxoarginine, cysteine, alpha-ketoglutarate, chenodeoxycholate and argininate yielded the strongest metabolite signals and were inversely related to overall glioma risk (0.0065≤P<0.0083). Also, seven xanthine metabolites related to caffeine metabolism were higher in cases than in controls (0.017≤P<0.042). Findings were mostly similar in high-grade glioma cases, although prominent inversely associated metabolites included the secondary bile acids glycocholenate sulfate and 3β-hydroxy-5-cholenoic acid, xenobiotic methyl 4-hydroxybenzoate sulfate, sex steroid 5alpha-pregnan3beta, 20beta-diol-monosulfate, and cofactor/vitamin oxalate (0.0091≤P<0.021). A serum metabolomic profile of glioma identified years in advance of clinical diagnoses is characterized by altered signals in arginine/proline, antioxidant, and coffeerelated metabolites. The observed pattern provides new potential leads regarding the molecular basis relevant to etiologic or sub-clinical biomarkers for glioma.
// Jiaqi Huang 1 , Stephanie J. Weinstein 1 , Cari M. Kitahara 2 , Edward D. Karoly 3 , Joshua N. Sampson 4 and Demetrius Albanes 1 1 Metabolic Epidemiology Branch, Division of Cancer Epidemiology and Genetics, National Cancer Institute, NIH, Department of Health and Human Services, Bethesda, MD, USA 2 Radiation Epidemiology Branch, Division of Cancer Epidemiology and Genetics, National Cancer Institute, NIH, Department of Health and Human Services, Bethesda, MD, USA 3 Director of Project Management, Metabolon, Inc., Morrisville, NC, USA 4 Biostatistics Branch, Division of Cancer Epidemiology and Genetics, National Cancer Institute, NIH, Department of Health and Human Services, Bethesda, MD, USA Correspondence to: Demetrius Albanes, email: DAA@NIH.GOV Keywords: malignant glioma, metabolomics, prospective, arginine/proline metabolism, antioxidant Received: April 23, 2017 Accepted: June 29, 2017 Published: July 31, 2017 ABSTRACT Malignant glioma is one of the most lethal adult cancers, yet its etiology remains largely unknown. We conducted a prospective serum metabolomic analysis of glioma based on 64 cases and 64 matched controls selected from Alpha-Tocopherol, Beta-Carotene Cancer Prevention (ATBC) Study. Median time from collection of baseline fasting serum to diagnosis was nine years (inter-decile range 3-20 years). LC/MS-MS identified 730 known metabolites, and conditional logistic regression models estimated odds ratios for one-standard deviation differences in log-metabolite signals. Forty-three metabolites were associated with glioma at P <0.05. 2-Oxoarginine, cysteine, alpha-ketoglutarate, chenodeoxycholate and argininate yielded the strongest metabolite signals and were inversely related to overall glioma risk (0.0065≤ P <0.0083). Also, seven xanthine metabolites related to caffeine metabolism were higher in cases than in controls (0.017≤ P <0.042). Findings were mostly similar in high-grade glioma cases, although prominent inversely associated metabolites included the secondary bile acids glycocholenate sulfate and 3β-hydroxy-5-cholenoic acid, xenobiotic methyl 4-hydroxybenzoate sulfate, sex steroid 5alpha-pregnan-3beta, 20beta-diol-monosulfate, and cofactor/vitamin oxalate (0.0091≤ P <0.021). A serum metabolomic profile of glioma identified years in advance of clinical diagnoses is characterized by altered signals in arginine/proline, antioxidant, and coffee-related metabolites. The observed pattern provides new potential leads regarding the molecular basis relevant to etiologic or sub-clinical biomarkers for glioma.
Malignant glioma is one of the most lethal adult cancers, yet its etiology remains largely unknown. We conducted a prospective serum metabolomic analysis of glioma based on 64 cases and 64 matched controls selected from Alpha-Tocopherol, BetaCarotene Cancer Prevention (ATBC) Study. Median time from collection of baseline fasting serum to diagnosis was nine years (inter-decile range 3-20 years). LC/MS-MS identified 730 known metabolites, and conditional logistic regression models estimated odds ratios for one-standard deviation differences in log-metabolite signals. Forty-three metabolites were associated with glioma at P<0.05. 2-Oxoarginine, cysteine, alpha-ketoglutarate, chenodeoxycholate and argininate yielded the strongest metabolite signals and were inversely related to overall glioma risk (0.0065≤P<0.0083). Also, seven xanthine metabolites related to caffeine metabolism were higher in cases than in controls (0.017≤P<0.042). Findings were mostly similar in high-grade glioma cases, although prominent inversely associated metabolites included the secondary bile acids glycocholenate sulfate and 3β-hydroxy-5-cholenoic acid, xenobiotic methyl 4-hydroxybenzoate sulfate, sex steroid 5alpha-pregnan3beta, 20beta-diol-monosulfate, and cofactor/vitamin oxalate (0.0091≤P<0.021). A serum metabolomic profile of glioma identified years in advance of clinical diagnoses is characterized by altered signals in arginine/proline, antioxidant, and coffeerelated metabolites. The observed pattern provides new potential leads regarding the molecular basis relevant to etiologic or sub-clinical biomarkers for glioma.
Acrylamide (ACR) is known to induce neurotoxicity in humans and occupational exposure to ACR has an effect on human health. Since some animal experiments indicate the metabolic change caused by the ACR based on the metabolomics, increasing concern is the change of metabolite profiles by the low-dose ACR. In the present study, a low-dose of ACR (18 mg kg(-1)) was administered to male Wistar rats for 40 days. Ultra performance liquid chromatography/time of flight mass spectrometry (UPLC-Q-TOF MS) was used to examine urine samples from ACR-dosed and control animals. Multiple statistical analyses with principal component analysis (PCA) were used to investigate metabolite profile changes in urine samples, and to screen for potential neurotoxicity biomarkers. PCA showed differences between the ACR-dosed and control groups 20 days after the start of dosing; a bigger separation between the two groups was seen after dosing for 40 days. Levels of 4-guanidinobutanoic acid and 2-oxoarginine were significantly higher in urine from the ACR-dosed group than in urine from the control group after 10 days (p < 0.05). Receiver operator characteristic (ROC) curve analysis suggested that 4-guanidinobutanoic acid and 2-oxoarginine were the major metabolites. Our results suggest that high levels of 4-guanidinobutanoic acid and 2-oxoarginine may be related to ACR neurotoxicity. These metabolites could, therefore, act as sensitive biomarkers for ACR exposure and be useful for investigating toxic mechanisms. They may also provide a scientific foundation for assessing the effects of chronic low-dose ACR exposure on human health.
BACKGROUND ::: Metabolomics is the study of metabolome which describes the full repertoire of small molecules, and the analysis of salivary metabolomics may help in identifying tumor-specific biomarkers for early diagnosis and prediction of tumor progression. The aim of the study was to evaluate the clinical utility of salivary metabolites in oral leukoplakia and oral squamous cell carcinoma. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Salivary metabolomic profile of patients diagnosed with oral leukoplakia (n = 21) and oral squamous cell carcinoma (n = 22) was compared with apparently normal controls (n = 18) using Q-TOF-liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. MassHunter profile software and Metlin database were used for metabolite identification. ANOVA to identify the regulation of metabolites between the three groups, t test (P < 0.05) to signify the changes between two groups, and chi-square test (P < 0.05) to indicate the presence or absence of metabolites in the study participants of the three groups were performed. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Significant upregulation of 1-methylhistidine, inositol 1,3,4-triphosphate, d-glycerate-2-phosphate, 4-nitroquinoline-1-oxide, 2-oxoarginine, norcocaine nitroxide, sphinganine-1-phosphate, and pseudouridine in oral leukoplakia and OSCC was noted. Downregulated compounds in the diseased groups included l-homocysteic acid, ubiquinone, neuraminic acid, and estradiol valerate. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: A range of salivary metabolites were significantly altered in oral leukoplakia and oral squamous cell carcinoma. Further, it is necessary to evaluate the clinical utility of the individual metabolites in preventing malignant transformation of oral leukoplakia and to improve prognosis of oral squamous cell carcinoma.
A key step in the biosynthesis of the polyene polyketide ECO-0501 by Amycolatopsis orientalis ATCC 43491 is thought to involve oxidative decarboxylation of arginine or Nδ-methylarginine to the corresponding primary amide. This reaction is the centerpiece of a recently identified biosynthetic cassette that generates 4-guanidinobutyryl thioesters to serve as starter units for polyketide synthesis. We examined the reaction of ORF7, the predicted ECO-0501 biosynthetic decarboxylase, with arginine, and saw no evidence of decarboxylation. Instead, we observed exclusive amine oxidation to generate 2-oxoarginine, with a kcat/KM,Arg of 5.6×106M-1s-1, typical of values measured for physiological amino acid decarboxylases. In contrast, when ORF7 was incubated with Nδ-methylarginine, we observed exclusive decarboxylation to generate 4-(N1-methylguanidino)butyramide. These differing reactive pathways provide insight into the biosyntheses of guanidinobutyryl-derived polyketides and demonstrate the biosynthetic versatility of arginine-processing decarboxylases. In addition, it suggests that ORF7 may be an incisive model system for dissecting the determinants of flavoprotein-catalyzed oxidase and monooxygenase modes of reactivity.
Most plants exhibit strong tolerance to excess molybdenum (Mo). However, the metabolic profile and tolerance mechanisms of plants in response to excess Mo remain unknown. We comprehensively analyzed changes in the metabolic profiles of leaves and roots in soybean (Glycine max L.) seedlings cultured under normal-Mo and excess-Mo conditions by using ultra performance liquid chromatography (UPLC) combined with MS/MS (mass spectrometry). There were 42 differential metabolites in the roots and 19 differential metabolites in the leaves in response to excess Mo stress. In roots, the organic acids, levels of gluconic acid, D-glucarate and citric acid increased by 107.63-, 4.42- and 2.87-folds after excess Mo exposure. Several hormones (salicylic acid, jasmonic acid) and lipids (PG, MG, DG etc) also increased significantly under excess Mo condition. Metabolites related to ascorbate-glutathione metabolism and flavonoid and isoflavone biosynthesis notably accumulated in roots. Only lipid metabolism and salicylic acid accumulation were induced in leaves under excess Mo stress. It is speculated that organic compounds such as 2-oxoarginine, L-nicotine, gluconic acid, D-glucurate, and citric acid played important roles to chelate Mo and reduce its toxicity. Signaling molecules (JA, SA, and some lipids) and non-enzyme antioxidants such as flavonoids/isoflavones act synergistically to detoxify ROS and contribute to Mo tolerance in soybean seedlings. More metabolic pathways were induced by Mo excess in roots than in leaves, suggesting that roots play more implant role in Mo tolerance.
