A Pseudomonas species grown on polyamines was found to have the following enzymes that can dehydrogenate succinic semialdehyde: a constitutive nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADP)-linked dehydrogenase, an inducible NAD-linked dehydrogenase specific for succinic semialdehyde (EC 1.2.lb), and more than one inducible NAD-linked aminoaldehyde dehydrogenase which can act on succinic semialdehyde, 3-aminopropanal, and 4-aminobutanal. These enzymes have been separated from each other by ammonium sulfate precipitation, column chromatography on diethylaminoethyl-Sephadex, and electrophoresis on polyacrylamide gel. The level of NAD-linked succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase in cells grown on various C and N sources has been determined and found to be as expected of an inducible enzyme with, however, two slight variations: the basal level of the enzyme in cells grown on Casamino Acids is relatively high and readily detectable, and the level of this enzyme is the same when the cells are grown on γ-aminobutyrate with or without glucose and is, therefore, not subject to the classical glucose effect.
A vast amount of data has been generated over the last 30 years regarding neurodegenerative mechanisms. The basic question that has still not been answered is, how can selective cell populations degenerate? Specifically, N. basalis cholinergic neurons in Alzheimer's disease (AD), nigral dopaminergic neurons in Parkinson's disease, upper and lower motor neurons in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), oliogodendrocytes in multiple sclerosis (MS) and neurons in the penumbra of an ischemic focus. Perhaps the most pivotal observation from studies of preclinical models may be that, after the loss of mitochondrial integrity and the associated efflux of cytochrome c with activation of the caspase cascade, the cell death cascade has probably passed a point of potential pharmacological intervention. Despite intense efforts to define points of intervention to stop this loss of mitochondrial function, translation of basic research knowledge into clinical practice has been extremely limited. ::: ::: Another question that has been interrogated by several research groups is that of the possibility that there might be a common mediator or class of mediators responsible for a diverse number of neuropathologies involving selective neuronal losses. In this regard, the production of reactive aldehydes and the associated accumulation of their adducts in neurological disorders is well established.1 The potential sources of these aldehydes are complex, involving lipid peroxidation, glycation reactions, polyamine metabolism, pyrimidine catabolism, monoamine metabolism, and the intermediary metabolism of carbohydrates, amino acids and phospholipids. ::: ::: In models of ischemia-reperfusion injury, work from the laboratory of Kevin J. Tracey2 has established a key role for the aminoaldehyde, 3-aminopropanal in the delayed cell death of the penumbra, acting at the premitochondrial phase of apoptosis and necrosis. The source of 3-aminopropanal is metabolism of the polyamines spermine and spermidine to putrescine by polyamine oxidase (PAO) and spermine oxidase. In this regard, inhibition of PAO and the use of aldehyde-sequestering agents have both been demonstrated to be neuroprotective in the rat middle cerebral artery occlusion and global brain ischemia models and in the gerbil global brain ischemia model. ::: ::: These data have formed a sound groundwork for the study of aldehydes in cell death in models of delayed neuronal cell death not involving ischemia. Such studies of the trimethyltin model of delayed CA3 hippocampal cell death in the rat have revealed that, as in brain ischemia, massive increases in 3-aminopropanal precede neuronal cell death and that aldehyde-sequestering agents provide 100% neuroprotection in this model.3 ::: ::: These data are the first to suggest that reactive aldehydes are key mediators of neuronal cell death in both ischemic and non-ischemic paradigms. Therefore, the next logical question might be, “Which clinical conditions are associated with increased aldehyde load, as reflected by accumulation of protein-aldehyde adducts?” First, in the case of MS, oligodendrocytes possess high levels of polyamines and PAO. Arginase and ornithine decarboxylase (ODC), enzymes that supply the precursors for augmented polyamine metabolism, are elevated in murine models of MS, and aldehyde-protein adducts are elevated in both animal models and in MS patients. In ALS, increases in CSF arginase and aldehyde-protein adducts have been reported. In AD, neocortical ODC, putrescine and aldehyde-protein adducts are all elevated. Of major consequence is the recent demonstration that increased aldehydes and aldehyde-protein adducts are present in the CSF of patients with mild cognitive impairment, a clinical condition that generally precedes AD.4 ::: ::: In summary, a number of neurodegenerative diseases are associated with a high aldehyde load. The efficacy of aldehyde-sequestering agents in preclinical models of delayed neurodegeneration suggests that these agents may provide a new generation of therapeutics for the treatment of devastating neurological disorders.
Stroke is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in the US, with secondary damage following the initial insult contributing significantly to overall poor outcome. Prior investigations have shown that the metabolism of certain polyamines such as spermine, spermidine, and putrescine are elevated in ischemic parenchyma, resulting in an increase in their metabolite concentration. Polyamine metabolites tend to be cytotoxic, leading to neuronal injury in the penumbra following stroke and expansion of the area of infarcted tissue. Although the precise mechanism is unclear, the presence of reactive aldehydes produced through polyamine metabolism, such as 3-aminopropanal and acrolein, have been shown to correlate with the incidence of cerebral vasospasm, disruption of oxidative metabolism and mitochondrial functioning, and disturbance of cellular calcium ion channels. Regulation of the polyamine metabolic pathway, therefore, may have the potential to limit injury following cerebral ischemia. To this end, we review this pathway in detail with an emphasis on clinical applicability.
This data article is related to the subject of a publication in Process Biochemistry, entitled “Chloroperoxidase-catalyzed amino alcohol oxidation: Substrate specificity and novel strategy for the synthesis of N-Cbz-3-aminopropanal” (Masdeu et al., 2016) [1]. Here, the products of the chemical reaction involving the amino aldehyde (N-Cbz-3-aminopropanal) and peroxides (tert-butyl hydroperoxide and H2O2) are characterized by NMR. 1H and 13C NMR full characterization of the products was obtained based on 2D NMR, 1D selective NOESY and diffusion spectroscopy (DOSY) experiments.
A growing body of evidence links the polyamine spermine (Spm) catabolism to neurodegeneration, as observed in various in vitro and in vivo models [8] [9] [10] [11] . Endogenous Spm is a ubiquitous cell component that is essential for normal cellular functions and growth [12, 13] . Spm is directly oxidized by the flavoprotein spermine oxidase (SMO), producing spermidine, the aldehyde 3-aminopropanal (3-AP) and hydrogen peroxide (H 2 O 2 ) [14] . These oxidative products may act as negative regulators of cell growth and survival. Indeed, in several neurodegenerative diseases, augmented polyamine catabolism results in the generation of H 2 O 2 and of a number of reactive aldehydes that participate in the death of compromised tissues [11] . Our previous data have shown that Tat is able to induce ROS generation through an upregulation of SMO activity and to reduce cell viability in SH-SY5Y cell cultures, thus providing a link between Spm catabolism and HIV neuropathogenesis [5] . Interestingly, we have also observed that Tatinduced SMO activation (which leads to ROS generation and neurotoxicity) is mediated by the stimulation of NMDA receptor (NMDAR) [5] .
Polyamines (PAs), including spermine (Spm), spermidine (Spd), and putrescine (Put), are low-molecular-mass aliphatic polycations that are ubiquitously distributed in organisms. Due to the cationic nature of PAs, they bind to macromolecules, such as DNA, RNA, and proteins, through electrostatic linkages that can cause either stabilization or destabilization (Kusano et al. 2008 ). Thus, they have been implicated in a range of fundamental cellular processes, including the regulation of gene expression, translation, cell proliferation, cell growth, differentiation, modulation of cell signaling, membrane stabilization, and modulation of ion-channel function and stability (Kusano et al. 2008 , Jiménez-Bremont et al. 2014 , Minocha et al. 2014 , Tiburcio et al. 2014 . Endogenous PA contents depend upon the regulation of biosynthesis, transport, and catabolism in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes, including plants (Kusano et al. 2008 , Takahashi et al. 2010 . PAs are oxidatively deaminated by two types of amine oxidases: copper-containing amine oxidases (CuAOs, EC 1.4.3.6 ) and FAD-dependent polyamine oxidases (PAOs, EC 1.5.3.6) (Cona et al. 2006) . The extracellular PAOs, such as the PAOs from monocotyledonous plants oxidize the carbon on the endo-side of the N 4 -nitrogen of Spd and Spm to produce 4-aminobutanal and N-(3-aminopropyl)-4-aminobutanal, respectively, along with 1,3-diaminopropane and H 2 O 2 , and are thus considered involved in the terminal catabolism of PAs. Differently, intracellular (cytosolic and peroxisomal) PAOs oxidize the carbon at the exo-side of the N 4 -nitrogen of Spd and Spm with the production of Spd from Spm and Put from Spd, 3-aminopropanal, and H 2 O 2 , and are considered involved in a polyamine back-conversion pathway (Planas-Portell et al. 2013 , Ahou et al. 2014 . Although it has been explained that PAOs in monocotyledonous plants are involved in the terminal catabolism of PAs, four rice PAOs were found to be involved in the PA back-conversion pathway (Ono et al. 2012) . This suggests that the PA back-conversion pathway also exists in monocotyledonous plants.
Mammalian polyamine oxidases (PAOs) catalyze the oxidation of N1-acetylspermine and N1-acetylspermidine to produce N-acetyl-3-aminopropanaldehyde and spermidine or putrescine. Structurally, PAO is a member of the monoamine oxidase family of flavoproteins. The effects of pH on the kinetic parameters of mouse PAO have been determined to provide insight into the protonation state of the polyamine required for catalysis and the roles of ionizable residues in the active site in amine oxidation. For N1-acetylspermine, N1-acetylspermidine, and spermine, the kcat/Kamine−pH profiles are bell-shaped. In each case, the profile agrees with that expected if the productive form of the substrate has a single positively charged nitrogen. The pKi−pH profiles for a series of polyamine analogues are most consistent with the nitrogen at the site of oxidation being neutral and one other nitrogen being positively charged in the reactive form of the substrate. With N1-acetylspermine as the substrate, the value of kred, the limi...
3-Aminopropanal (3-AP), a degradation product of polyamines such as spermine, spermidine and putrescine, is a lysosomotropic small aldehyde that causes apoptosis or necrosis of most cells in culture, apparently by inducing moderate or extensive lysosomal rupture, respectively, and secondary mitochondrial changes. Here, using the human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cell line, we found simultaneous occurrence of apoptotic and necrotic cell death when cultures were exposed to 3-AP in concentrations that usually are either nontoxic, or only cause apoptosis. At 30 mM, but not at 10 mM, the lysosomotropic base and proton acceptor NH3 completely blocked the toxic effect of 3-AP, proving that 3-AP is lysosomotropic and suggesting that the lysosomal membrane proton pump of neuroblastoma cells is highly effective, creating a lower than normal lysosomal pH and, thus, extensive intralysosomal accumulation of lysosomotropic drugs. A wave of internal oxidative stress, secondary to changes in mitochondrial membrane potential, followed and gave rise to further lysosomal rupture. The preincubation of cells for 24 h with a chain-breaking free radical-scavenger, alpha-tocopherol, before exposure to 3-AP, significantly delayed both the wave of oxidative stress and the secondary lysosomal rupture, while it did not interfere with the early 3-AP-mediated phase of lysosomal break. Obviously, the reported oxidative stress and apoptosis/necrosis are consequences of lysosomal rupture with ensuing release of lysosomal enzymes resulting in direct/indirect effects on mitochondrial permeability, membrane potential, and electron transport. The induced oxidative stress seems to act as an amplifying loop causing further lysosomal break that can be partially prevented by alpha-tocopherol. Perhaps secondary brain damage during a critical post injury period can be prevented by the use of drugs that temporarily raise lysosomal pH, inactivate intralysosomal 3-AP, or stabilize lysosomal membranes against oxidative stress.
Abstract The last step of polyamine catabolism involves the oxidation of 3-aminopropanal or 4-aminobutanal via aminoaldehyde dehydrogenase. In this study, two apple (Malus x domestica) AMADH genes were selected (MdAMADH1 and MdAMADH2) as candidates for encoding 4-aminobutanal dehydrogenase activity. Maximal activity and catalytic efficiency were obtained with NAD+ and 3-aminopropanal, followed by 4-aminobutanal, at pH 9.8. NAD+ reduction was accompanied by the production of GABA and β-alanine, respectively, when 4-aminobutanal and 3-aminopropanal were utilized as substrates. MdAMADH2 was peroxisomal and MdAMADH1 cytosolic. These findings shed light on the potential role of apple AMADHs in 4-aminobutyrate and β-alanine production.
Cerebral ischemia stimulates increased activity of polyamine oxidase, a ubiquitous enzyme that catabolizes polyamines to produce 3-aminopropanal. 3-Aminopropanal is a reactive aldehyde that mediates progressive neuronal necrosis and glial apoptosis. Here we report that increased levels of 3-aminopropanal-modified protein levels in humans after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage correlate with the degree of cerebral injury as measured by admission Hunt/Hess grade. In vitro screening of clinically approved drugs reveals that N-2-mercaptopropionyl glycine (N-2-MPG), an agent clinically approved for prevention of renal stones in patients with cysteinuria, significantly inhibits the cytotoxicity of 3-aminopropanal. N-2-MPG reacts with 3-aminopropanal to yield a nontoxic thioacetal adduct, as confirmed by electrospray ionization mass spectroscopy. Administration of N-2-MPG in clinically relevant doses to rats significantly reduces cerebral 3-aminopropanal-modified protein immunoreactivity and infarct volume in a standardized model of middle cerebral artery occlusion, even when the agent is administered after the onset of ischemia. These results implicate 3-aminopropanal as a therapeutic target for cerebral ischemia.
The flavoprotein oxidase Fms1 from Saccharomyces cerevisiae catalyzes the oxidation of spermine and N(1)-acetylspermine to yield spermidine and 3-aminopropanal or N-acetyl-3-aminopropanal. The kinetic mechanism of the enzyme has been determined with both substrates. The initial velocity patterns are ping-pong, consistent with reduction being kinetically irreversible. Reduction of Fms1 by either substrate is biphasic. The rate constant for the rapid phase varies with the substrate concentration, with limiting rates for reduction of the enzyme of 126 and 1410 s(-1) and apparent K(d) values of 24.3 and 484 μM for spermine and N(1)-acetylspermine, respectively. The rapid phase is followed by a concentration-independent phase that is slower than turnover. The reaction of the reduced enzyme with oxygen is monophasic, with a rate constant of 402 mM(-1) s(-1) with spermine at 25 °C and 204 mM(-1) s(-1) with N(1)-acetylspermine at 4 °C and pH 9.0. This step is followed by rate-limiting product dissociation. The k(cat)/K(amine)-pH profiles are bell-shaped, with an average pK(a) value of 9.3 with spermine and pK(a) values of 8.3 and 9.6 with N(1)-acetylspermine. Both profiles are consistent with the active forms of substrates having two charged nitrogens. The pH profiles for the rate constant for flavin reduction show pK(a) values of 8.3 and 7.2 for spermine and N(1)-acetylspermine, respectively, for groups that must be unprotonated; these pK(a) values are assigned to the substrate N4. The k(cat)/K(O(2))-pH profiles show pK(a) values of 7.5 for spermine and 6.8 for N(1)-acetylspermine. With both substrates, the k(cat) value decreases when a single residue is protonated.
B66 Recurrent or chronic inflammation has been implicated in thedevelopment of many human epithelial cancers, including those of the stomach, lung, colon and prostate. Tumor necrosis factor α (TNFα) is a potent pleiotropic, proinflammatory cytokine produced by many cells in response to inflammation. Chronically produced TNFα acts as an endogenous tumor promoter by contributing to the tissue remodeling and stromal development necessary for tumor growth and spread. Our previous studies with H. pylori in gastric epithelial cells suggest that spermine oxidase (SMO/PAOh1), a polyamine catabolic enzyme which oxidizes spermine into spermidine, 3-aminopropanal and H2O2, is an inflammatory response gene. Here we show that TNFα exposure leads to a significant increase in the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), with a concomitant increase in the production of 8-oxo-deoxyguanosine, a marker for oxidative DNA damage, in the Beas-2B and HBEC-3K human lung bronchial epithelial cells. Further, inhibition of TNFα-induced SMO/PAOh1 activity with MDL 72,527 or with a targeted siRNA prevented ROS production and oxidative DNA damage, thereby indicating SMO as the source of ROS in TNFα-treated Beas-2B cells. Further, similar induction in SMO/PAOh1 is observed with treatment of another inflammatory cytokine, IL-6. The data are consistent with a model that directly links inflammation and DNA damage through the production of H2O2 by SMO/PAOh1. Further, these results suggest a common pathway by which inflammation from multiple sources can lead to the mutagenic changes necessary for the development and progression of epithelial cancers.
MBP-YfaU catalyzed aldol additions of pyruvate to a structural variety of unsubstituted and -substituted N-Cbz-amino aldehydes derivatives furnishing a collection of new proline, pyrrolizidine-3-carboxylic acid derivatives and 4-hydroxypipecolic acid. N-Cbz-3-aminoethanal (2a) and -substituted derivatives with methyl (2b), ethyl (2c), isopropyl (2d) as well as pyrrolidine structures 2i rendered high isolated yields (70-91%), whereas N-Cbz-3-aminopropanal (2h), -isobutyl (2e) and -sec-butyl (2f) derivatives were prepared in good to moderate yields (51-68%). Among them, -isopropyl and -sec-butyl gave enantioselective ratios of 95:5, whereas the rest of -substituted derivatives gave mixtures of enantiomers within a range of 30:70 to 13:87. Achiral N-Cbz-3-aminoethanal and N-Cbz-3-aminopropanal gave racemic aldol adducts. It is noteworthy that -substituted (S)-N-Cbz-amino aldehydes gave preferentially (R)-aldol adducts, and the contrary is true for the (R)-N-Cbz-amino aldehydes, therefore, an asymmetric induction occurred during the catalysis. An exception was the reaction with -isobutyl derivatives 2e, where both enantiomers furnished the (R)-enantiomer as major aldol adduct. In the reductive amination reaction hydrogen was preferentially added to the face that rendered a cis relation between the carboxylic and hydroxyl groups. Molecular models of the pre-reaction ternary complexes YfaU-pyruvate enolate-acceptor aldehyde may be instrumental for future developments to improve both the substrate tolerance and stereoselectivity of the YfaU catalysis. Work on this line is currently in progress in our lab.
Abstract In mammals, the polyamines affect cell growth, differentiation, and apoptosis; their levels are increased in malignant and proliferating cells, thus justifying an interest in a chemotherapeutic approach to cancer. The flavoprotein SMO is the most recently characterized catabolic enzyme, preferentially oxidizing SPM to SPD, 3-aminopropanal and H 2 O 2 . In this report, we describe a novel functional characterization of the recently cloned splice variant isoforms from mouse brain, encoding, among others, the nuclear co-localized spermine oxidase mSMOμ. The over-expression of the active isoforms mSMOα and mSMOμ, and the inactive mSMOδ and mSMOγ in mouse neuroblastoma cells, demonstrated the first evidence of the direct oxidative DNA damage by the SMO activities, either alone or, in a higher extent, when associated with radiation exposure, thus working as radio sensitizer. These effects were reverted by treatment with 50 μM and 100 μM doses of the inhibitor of SMO activity MDL 72,527. The over-expression of all SMO isoforms failed to influence the expression of the regulating enzymes of polyamines metabolism ODC and SSAT. Dealing with the unbalanced tissue specific SMO activities, these results could indicate a new direction to tailor chemotherapy-associated radiotherapy, improving dose-rate protocol and allowing the modulation of deleterious side effects on healthy tissues.
The cellular PA level is controlled in part by the action of amine oxidases including copper diamine oxidases (CuAOs) and flavoprotein PA oxidases (PAOs). The former catalyse the oxidation of Put to 4-aminobutanal with concomitant production of NH 3 and H 2 O 2 , and the resulting aldehyde is further converted to γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) via Δ 1 -pyrroline. PAOs are involved in the catabolism of Spd and Spm leading to the formation of 1,3-diaminopropane (Dap), H 2 O 2 , and the corresponding aldehyde (Rea et al., 2002; Cona et al., 2006) . Some PAO isoforms catalysing the backconversion of Spm to Spd and Spd to Put have also been described in Arabidopsis thaliana (Moschou et al., 2008b) , with concomitant production of 3-aminopropanal and H 2 O 2 . PA oxidation has been correlated with cell-wall maturation and lignification during development, as well as with cell-wall reinforcement during pathogen invasion (Cona et al., 2006) . As a signal molecule, H 2 O 2 derived from PA oxidation mediates cell death, the hypersensitive response and the expression of defence genes (Yoda et al., 2006; Moschou et al., 2008a; Angelini et al., 2010) . Furthermore, aminoaldehydes and Dap derived from PA oxidation are involved in secondary metabolite synthesis and abiotic stress tolerance (Bouchereau et al., 1999) . In tobacco plants overexpressing PAO, systemic acquired resistance marker genes as well as an increase in the cell-wall-based defence were observed . These transgenic plants showed pre-induced disease tolerance against the biotrophic bacterium Pseudomonas syringae and the hemibiotrophic oomycete Phytophthora parasitica but not against cucumber mosaic virus.
The flavoprotein oxidase Fms1 from Saccharomyces cerevisiae catalyzes the oxidation of spermine and N1-acetylspermine to spermidine and 3-aminopropanal or N-acetyl-3-aminopropanal. Within the active site of Fms1, His67 is positioned to form hydrogen bonds with the polyamine substrate. This residue is also conserved in other polyamine oxidases. The catalytic properties of H67Q, H67N, and H67A Fms1 have been characterized to evaluate the role of this residue in catalysis. With both spermine and N1-acetylspermine as the amine substrate, the value of the first-order rate constant for flavin reduction decreases 2–3 orders of magnitude, with the H67Q mutation having the smallest effect and H67N the largest. The kcat/KO2 value changes very little upon mutation with N1-acetylspermine as the amine substrate and decreases only an order of magnitude with spermine. The kcat/KM–pH profiles with N1-acetylspermine are bell-shaped for all the mutants; the similarity to the profile of the wild-type enzyme rules out His67 ...
AbstractD-Fagomine is an iminosugar found in nature that lowers blood glucose peak after meal and reduces fat-induced weight gain and insulin resistance. The immediate precursor of D-fagomine is accessible straightforward via D-fructose-6-phosphate aldolase catalyzed aldol addition of dihydroxyacetone to Cbz-N-3-aminopropanal (Cbz = benzyloxycarbonyl). In this work, the performance and kinetics of the abovementioned reaction catalyzed by FSA A129G variant was studied. The reaction was investigated in two reactors; batch reactor and microreactor, and kinetic parameters were estimated from the steady state experiments in the batch reactor. This enzyme has improved stability, better Km value for Cbz-N-3-aminopropanal and lower retro-aldol activity in comparison with previously studied aldolase variants FSA A129S and A129S/A165G. Mathematical model for both reactors was developed and validated experimentally.
Spermine oxidase (SMOX) catalyzes oxidation of spermine to generate spermidine, hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) and 3-aminopropanal, which is spontaneously converted to acrolein. SMOX is induced by a variety of stimuli including bacterial infection, polyamine analogues and acetaldehyde exposure. However, the physiological functions of SMOX are not yet fully understood. We investigated the physiological role of SMOX in liver cells using human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line HepG2. SMOX localized to the bile canalicular lumen, as determined by F-actin staining. Knockdown of SMOX reduced the formation of bile canalicular lumen. We also found that phospho-Akt (phosphorylated protein kinase B) was localized to canalicular lumen. Treatment with Akt inhibitor significantly reduced the formation of bile canalicular lumen. Acrolein scavenger also inhibited the formation of bile canalicular lumen. PTEN, phosphatase and tensin homolog and an inhibitor of Akt, was alkylated in a SMOX-dependent manner. Our results suggest that SMOX plays a central role in the formation of bile canalicular lumen in liver cells by activating Akt pathway through acrolein production.
ABSTRACT D-Fagomine is an iminosugar found in nature that lowers blood glucose peak after meal and reduces fat-induced weight gain and insulin resistance. The immediate precursor of Dfagomine is accessible straightforward via D-fructose-6-phosphate aldolase catalyzed aldol addition of dihydroxyacetone to Cbz-N-3-aminopropanal (Cbz ¼ benzyloxycarbonyl). In this work, the performance and kinetics of the abovementioned reaction catalyzed by FSA A129G variant was studied. The reaction was investigated in two reactors; batch reactor and microreactor, and kinetic parameters were estimated from the steady state experiments in the batch reactor. This enzyme has improved stability, better K m value for Cbz-N-3-aminopropanal and lower retro-aldol activity in comparison with previously studied aldolase variants FSA A129S and A129S/A165G. Mathematical model for both reactors was developed and validated experimentally.
Spermine oxidase (SMOX) catalyzes oxidation of spermine to generate spermidine, hydrogen peroxide (H 2 O 2 ) and 3-aminopropanal, which is spontaneously converted to acrolein. SMOX is induced by a variety of stimuli including bacterial infection, polyamine analogues and acetaldehyde exposure. However, the physiological functions of SMOX are not yet fully understood. We investigated the physiological role of SMOX in liver cells using human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line HepG2. SMOX localized to the bile canalicular lumen, as determined by F-actin staining. Knockdown of SMOX reduced the formation of bile canalicular lumen. We also found that phospho-Akt (phosphorylated protein kinase B) was localized to canalicular lumen. Treatment with Akt inhibitor significantly reduced the formation of bile canalicular lumen. Acrolein scavenger also inhibited the formation of bile canalicular lumen. PTEN, phosphatase and tensin homolog and an inhibitor of Akt, was alkylated in a SMOXdependent manner. Our results suggest that SMOX plays a central role in the formation of bile canalicular lumen in liver cells by activating Akt pathway through acrolein production.
Spermine oxidase (SMOX) is classified as a FAD (flavine adenine dinucleotide)-containing enzyme 1 and catalyzes oxidative degradation of the polyamine spermine to produce spermidine 2 . SMOX is induced by a variety of stimuli including bacterial infections and oxidative stresses [3] [4] [5] . In the case of Helicobacter pylori infection, the induction of high SMOX activity increased reactive oxygen species dependent DNA damage 6 . Infection by Bacteroides fragilis induces SMOX activity and DNA damage in colon epithelial cells 4 . Furthermore, we have reported that acetaldehyde induced SMOX in the hepatocellular cell line HepG2 and increased acetaldehyde toxicity 5 .The cell damage caused by SMOX was mainly mediated by byproducts of spermine oxidation. Besides spermidine, SMOX also generates hydrogen peroxide (H 2 O 2 ) and 3-aminopropanal, that is non-enzymatically converted to acrolein 7, 8 . Acrolein is an unsaturated aldehyde and because of its high reactivity, the toxicity is 10 times higher than hydrogen peroxide 9 . Acrolein can react with amino acid residues in proteins, preferably cysteine, lysine and histidine, consequently modifying protein function and inducing apoptosis 10 or tissue damage 11, 12 . For degradation of spermine, mammalian cells employ an alternative pathway in addition to SMOX that involves spermidine/spermine N 1 -acetyltransferase (SSAT) and acetylpolyamine oxidase (PAOX) 13 . Spermine is acetylated by SSAT and then degraded by PAOX with less associated toxicity than that produced by the SMOX dependent pathway 14 due to low production of acrolein. The existence of a less toxic, safer PAOX pathway suggests that SMOX has a physiological role other than regulation of spermine and spermidine contents in cells. Ever since it was identified and cloned by Wang et al. 15 , the role of SMOX has been actively investigated. However, research conducted so far has focused on the cytotoxic aspects of SMOX. In the present study, we investigated the physiological role of SMOX in the liver cells.
A Pseudomonas species grown on polyamines was found to have the following enzymes that can dehydrogenate succinic semialdehyde: a constitutive nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADP)-linked dehydrogenase, an inducible NAD-linked dehydrogenase specific for succinic semialdehyde (EC 1.2.lb), and more than one inducible NAD-linked aminoaldehyde dehydrogenase which can act on succinic semialdehyde, 3-aminopropanal, and 4-aminobutanal. These enzymes have been separated from each other by ammonium sulfate precipitation, column chromatography on diethylaminoethyl-Sephadex, and electrophoresis on polyacrylamide gel. The level of NAD-linked succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase in cells grown on various C and N sources has been determined and found to be as expected of an inducible enzyme with, however, two slight variations: the basal level of the enzyme in cells grown on Casamino Acids is relatively high and readily detectable, and the level of this enzyme is the same when the cells are grown on gamma-aminobutyrate with or without glucose and is, therefore, not subject to the classical glucose effect.
In this report we show that recombinant Saccharomyces cerevisiae Fms1 protein is a polyamine oxidase that binds FAD with an FAD:Fms1 stoichiometry of 1:1. Biochemical characterization of Fms1 shows that it can oxidize spermine, N1-acetylspermine, N1-acetylspermidine, and N8-acetylspermidine, but not spermidine. The products of spermine oxidation are spermidine and 3-aminopropanal. A kinetic analysis revealed that spermine, N1-acetylspermine, and N1-acetylspermidine are oxidized with similar efficiencies, while N8-acetylspermidine is a poor substrate. The data support a previous report, suggesting that Fms1 is responsible for the production of β-alanine from spermine for the synthesis of pantothenic acid.
1. ::: 1. The comparative physiology and biochemistry of twelve species of bioluminescent earthworms from six genera (Diplocardia, Diplotrema, Fletcherodrilus, Octochaetus, Pontodrilus and Spenceriella) from the U.S., Australia and New Zealand indicated considerable similarity in the mechanism of bioluminescence. ::: ::: 2. ::: 2. With the exception of Pontodrilus bermudensis where the fluid is exuded from the mouth, all species exude bioluminescent coelomic fluid from their dorsal pores. ::: ::: 3. ::: 3. Microscopic observation, isolation of active particulate fractions from seven species and comparison to the previous study of D. longa (Rudie & Wampler, 1978) suggests that the site of luminescence is the free chloragogen cell. ::: ::: 4. ::: 4. The emission spectra (eight species) were broad, unimodal with maxima ranging from 500 nm to greater than 570 nm. ::: ::: 5. ::: 5. The spectral and biochemical data supports the hypothesis that earthworm bioluminescence involves the reaction of hydrogen peroxide with N-isovaleryl-3-aminopropanal or its close analog, and that spectral distribution is determined by the luciferase or other luciferase-association components.
Abstract The intramolecular interactions in the local minima on the potential energy surfaces of β-alanine, 3-aminopropanal and 3-aminopropanol are discussed on the basis of electron density maps. The resulting characterization is in agreement with criteria using bond lengths and vibration frequencies. The CO group is found to be the most important structural feature in these compounds.
Polyamines (spermidine, Spd and spermine, Spm) are aliphatic cations that interact with nucleic acids and proteins. Through their interactions, polyamines play important roles in maintenance of nucleic acid structure, gene transcription, signal transduction and cell proliferation [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] . The cellular levels of polyamines are tightly regulated through their import, export, synthesis and catabolism. Polyamines are catabolized by back-conversion through their stepwise acetylation and oxidation by spermidine/ spermine N 1 -acetyltransferase (SSAT) and N 1 -acetylpolyamine oxidase (APAO), respectively, or oxidation of Spm by spermine oxidase (SMO). Oxidation of acetylated Spm and Spd by APAO generates H 2 O 2 and 3-acetoaminopropanal, whereas oxidation of Spm by SMO generates H 2 O 2 , 3-aminopropanal. Both H 2 O 2 and the respective aldehydes can lead to cell injury.
Putrescine (Put), spermidine (Spd), and spermine (Spm) are polyamines. Polycationic polyamines are essential factors in mammalian development, and in eukaryotic cell differentiation and proliferation [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] . The concentration of cellular polyamines is typically low and is precisely controlled by metabolic modulation including polyamine uptake, transport, and interchange [8] ; thus the intracellular concentration of polyamines is generally in the millimolar range. Polyamine metabolism (summarized in Figure 1 ) is strictly regulated Ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) is required for the first step of polyamine synthesis in which ornithine is decarboxylated to produce putrescine. In turn, putrescine is converted sequentially to spermidine and spermine by the action of adenosylmethionine decarboxylase and spermidine and spermine synthases, respectively. The conversion to lower level polyamines is made in either two steps, by the spermidine/spermine N 1 -acetyltransferase (SSAT)/N 1 -acetylpolyamine oxidase (APAO) mechanism, or directly from spermine to spermidine by spermine oxidase (SMO). The activities of both APAO and SMO lead to the production of H 2 O 2 and aldehydes 3-acetoaminopropanal (3-AAP) and 3-aminopropanal (3-AP).
Spermine oxidase (SMOX) is a flavin-containing enzyme that specifically oxidizes spermine to produce spermidine, 3-aminopropanaldehyde and hydrogen peroxide. While no crystal structure is available for any mammalian SMOX, X-ray crystallography showed that the yeast Fms1 polyamine oxidase has a dimeric structure. Based on this scenario, we have investigated the quaternary structure of the SMOX protein by native gel electrophoresis, which revealed a composite gel band pattern, suggesting the formation of protein complexes. All high-order protein complexes are sensitive to reducing conditions, showing that disulfide bonds were responsible for protein complexes formation. The major gel band other than the SMOX monomer is the covalent SMOX homodimer, which was disassembled by increasing the reducing conditions, while being resistant to other denaturing conditions. Homodimeric and monomeric SMOXs are catalytically active, as revealed after gel staining for enzymatic activity. An engineered SMOX mutant deprived of all but two cysteine residues was prepared and characterized experimentally, resulting in a monomeric species. High-sensitivity differential scanning calorimetry of SMOX was compared with that of bovine serum amine oxidase, to analyse their thermal stability. Furthermore, enzymatic activity assays and fluorescence spectroscopy were used to gain insight into the unfolding process.
Abstract A molecular weight of 164,000 was determined for an NAD-specific succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase from a Pseudomonas species by gel filtration, polyacrylamide electrophoresis with reference proteins, and ultracentrifugation. Electrophoresis in sodium dodecyl sulfate gave rise to a single subunit band with a molecular weight of 54,500, indicating that this enzyme is a three-subunit enzyme. Ultracentrifugal studies show that the enzyme dissociates into subunits at pH values of 9.7 or higher. Under conditions of low ionic strength and absence of sulfhydryl protective reagents, the enzyme reversibly associates to form a dimer with a molecular weight of about 320,000 as calculated from the Svedberg equation and from polyacrylamide electrophoresis with reference proteins. Immunodiffusion in the absence of NaCl gave one precipitin line corresponding to the monomer, while immunodiffusion in the presence of 0.15 m NaCl gave three precipitin lines which can be correlated to the subunit, the monomer, and the dimer. Antisuccinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase cross-reacts with other enzyme fractions from this Pseudomonas which are active toward 3-aminopropanal and 4-aminobutanal as well as succinic semialdehyde. It is suggested that these fractions represent hybrids of succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase and aminoaldehyde dehydrogenases.
Cytotoxic polyamine-derived amino aldehydes, formed during cerebral ischaemia, damage adjacent tissue (the so-called 'penumbra') not subject to the initial ischaemic insult. One such product is 3-aminopropanal (3-AP), a potent cytotoxin that accumulates in ischaemic brain, although the precise mechanisms responsible for its formation are still unclear. More relevant to the present investigations, the mechanisms by which such a small aldehydic compound might be cytotoxic are also not known, but we hypothesized that 3-AP, having the structure of a weak lysosomotropic base, might concentrate within lysosomes, making these organelles a probable focus of initial toxicity. Indeed, 3-AP leads to lysosomal rupture of D384 glioma cells, a process which clearly precedes caspase activation and apoptotic cell death. Immunohistochemistry reveals that 3-AP concentrates in the lysosomal compartment and prevention of this accumulation by the lysosomotropic base ammonia, NH(3), protects against 3-AP cytotoxicity by increasing lysosomal pH. A thiol compound, N-(2-mercaptopropionyl)glycine, reacts with and neutralizes 3-AP and significantly inhibits cytoxocity. Both amino and aldehyde functions of 3-AP are necessary for toxicity: the amino group confers lysosomotropism and the aldehyde is important for additional, presently unknown, reactions. We conclude that 3-AP exerts its toxic effects by accumulating intralysosomally, causing rupture of these organelles and releasing lysosomal enzymes which initiate caspase activation and apoptosis (or necrosis if the lysosomal rupture is extensive). These results may have implications for the development of new therapeutics designed to lessen secondary damage arising from focal cerebral ischaemia.
OBJECTIVE ::: Delayed cerebral ischemia (DCI) is a significant contributor to poor outcomes after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (aSAH). The neurotoxin 3-aminopropanal (3-AP) is upregulated in cerebral ischemia. This phase II clinical trial evaluated the efficacy of tiopronin in reducing CSF 3-AP levels in patients with aSAH. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: In this prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter clinical trial, 60 patients were assigned to receive tiopronin or placebo in a 1:1 ratio. Treatment was commenced within 96 hours after aSAH onset, administered at a dose of 3 g daily, and continued until 14 days after aSAH or hospital discharge, whichever occurred earlier. The primary efficacy outcome was the CSF 3-AP level at 7 ± 1 days after aSAH. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Of the 60 enrolled patients, 29 (97%) and 27 (93%) in the tiopronin and placebo arms, respectively, received more than one dose of the study drug or placebo. At post-aSAH day 7 ± 1, CSF samples were available in 41% (n = 12/29) and 48% (n = 13/27) of patients in the tiopronin and placebo arms, respectively. No difference in CSF 3-AP levels at post-aSAH day 7 ± 1 was observed between the study arms (11 ± 12 nmol/mL vs 13 ± 18 nmol/mL; p = 0.766). Prespecified adverse events led to early treatment cessation for 4 patients in the tiopronin arm and 2 in the placebo arm. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: The power of this study was affected by missing data. Therefore, the authors could not establish or refute an effect of tiopronin on CSF 3-AP levels. Additional observational studies investigating the role of 3-AP as a biomarker for DCI may be warranted prior to its use as a molecular target in future clinical trials.Clinical trial registration no.: NCT01095731 (ClinicalTrials.gov).
Abstract Pyrrolidines, piperidines, and azepanes with annulated isoxazole, isoxazoline or isoxazolidine rings were prepared by intramolecular 1,3-dipolar cycloadditions of nitrones or nitrile oxides. The corresponding 1,3-dipoles were obtained from N -Boc-protected and N -allyl-, N -propargyl- or N -(3-butenyl)-substituted 2-aminoethanal or 3-aminopropanal.
For the first time, luciferin from a bioluminescent earthworm has been purified, identified, and synthesized. This luciferin from the North American species, Diplocardia longa, is a simple aldehyde compound, N-isovaleryl-3-aminopropanal, with an amide functional group. It is a clear, odorless oil at room temperature. It is nonvolatile and has no near-uv-visible absorption or fluorescence. Derivatives of this compound were made to facilitate its identification: the luciferin 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazone (mp 174 degrees C), a yellow crystalline solid; and the luciferin alcohol, a clear oil. Synthesis of Diplocardia luciferin yielded an oil of identical spectroscopic (proton nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR), 13C NMR, mass, and ir), chemical (dinitrophenylhydrazone and alcohol derivatives, bioluminescence activity), and physical (thin-layer chromatography, volatility) properties to those of the purified native Diplocardia luciferin.
N1-Acetylspermine oxidase (APAO) catalyzes the conversion of N1-acetylspermine or N1-acetylspermidine to spermidine or putrescine, respectively, with concomitant formation of N-acetyl-3-aminopropanal and hydrogen peroxide. Here we present the structure of murine APAO in its oxidized holo form and in complex with substrate. The structures provide a basis for understanding molecular details of substrate interaction in vertebrate APAO, highlighting a key role for an asparagine residue in coordinating the N1-acetyl group of the substrate. We applied computational methods to the crystal structures to rationalize previous observations with regard to the substrate charge state. The analysis suggests that APAO features an active site ideally suited for binding of charged polyamines. We also reveal the structure of APAO in complex with the irreversible inhibitor MDL72527. In addition to the covalent adduct, a second MDL72527 molecule is bound in the active site. Binding of MDL72527 is accompanied by altered conformations in the APAO backbone. On the basis of structures of APAO, we discuss the potential for development of specific inhibitors.
Abstract An NAD-specific succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase from a Pseudomonas species has been purified. The enzyme has been shown to have low activity toward aminoaldehydes (3-aminopropanal or 4-aminobutanal) as substrate. It contains 24 sulfhydryls per molecule (164,000 daltons). The kinetic constants and the pH profiles with different substrates are documented.
The potential of dihydroxyacetone phosphate (DHAP)-dependent aldolases to catalyze stereoselective aldol additions is, in many instances, limited by the solubility of the acceptor aldehyde in aqueous/co-solvent mixtures. Herein, we demonstrate the efficiency of emulsion systems as reaction media for the class I fructose-1,6-bisphosphate aldolase (RAMA) and class II recombinant rhamnulose-1-phosphate aldolase from E. coli (RhuA)-catalyzed aldol addition between DHAP and N-benzyloxycarbonyl (N-Cbz) aminoaldehydes. The use of emulsions improved the RAMA-catalyzed aldol conversions by three to tenfold relative to those in conventional DMF/water mixtures. RhuA was more reactive than RAMA towards the N-Cbz aminoaldehydes regardless of the reaction medium. With (S)- or (R)-Cbz-alaninal, RAMA exhibited preference for the R enantiomer, while RhuA had no enantiomeric discrimination. The linear N-Cbz aminopolyols thus obtained were submitted to catalytic intramolecular reductive amination to afford the corresponding iminocyclitols. This reaction was diastereoselective in all cases examined; the face selectivity was controlled by the stereochemistry of the newly formed hydroxyl group originating from the aldehyde. Characterization of the resulting iminocyclitols allowed the assessment of the diastereoselectivity of the enzymatic aldol reactions with respect to the N-protected aminoaldehyde. RAMA formed single diastereoisomers from N-Cbz-glycinal and from both enantiomers of N-Cbz-alaninal, while 14 % of the epimeric product was observed from N-Cbz-3-aminopropanal. Diastereoselectivity from RhuA was lower than that observed from RAMA. Interestingly, a single diastereoisomer was formed from (S)-Cbz-alaninal, whereas only a 34 % diastereomeric excess was observed from its enantiomer (i.e., (R)-Cbz-alaninal).
Mutations in the late endosomal/lysosomal membrane protein Niemann-Pick C1 (NPC1) are known to cause a generalized block in retrograde vesicle-mediated transport, resulting in the hyper-accumulation of multiple lysosomal cargos. An important, yet often overlooked, category of lysosomal cargo includes the vast array of small molecular weight amine-containing molecules that are substrates for ion trapping in the highly acidic organelle lumen. We show here that the introduction of amine-containing molecules in lysosomes can significantly stimulate NPC1-mediated late endosome/lysosome fusion, and subsequently the secretion of lysosomal cargo. To illustrate the physiological importance of this NPC1-mediated transport pathway, we show that NPC1-deficient cells are more susceptible to the toxic effects of a lysosomotropic polyamine metabolite 3-aminopropanal. Moreover, NPC fibroblasts are shown to have higher levels of polyamine oxidase, an enzyme involved in the formation of 3-aminopropanal. Collectively, these findings provide strong support for a novel functional role for NPC1 and may also provide clues toward understanding NPC disease progression.
BACKGROUND: The neurotoxic aldehyde 3-aminopropanal (3-AP) contributes to brain injury following cerebral ischemia. Tiopronin (N-2-mercaptopropionyl-glycine[N-2-MPG]) is a US Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved drug for the treatment of cystinuria and a putative neuroprotective agent that has been shown to bind and neutralize 3-AP and reduce infarct volumes. OBJECTIVE: The objective of this trial was to establish the safety of tiopronin administration in patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (aSAH) in preparation for further trials of its efficacy as a neuroprotective agent in this disease process. METHODS: This Phase I dose-escalation trial enrolled three-patient cohorts using a conventional "3 + 3" study design. Tiopronin dose began at 1 g/d until aSAH Day 14. Each subsequent cohort received a dose of tiopronin based on predetermined guidelines. A maximum dose of 3 g/d was selected, because this is the maximum FDA-approved dose for long-term cystinuria treatment. Subjects were monitored for known side effects of tiopronin. RESULTS: Nine patients were enrolled, the minimum number required based on the study design. None of these patients experienced serious side effects attributable to tiopronin, and no adverse events were noted that could not be attributed to the pathophysiology of aSAH. CONCLUSION: The administration of 3 g/d of tiopronin following aSAH for up to 14 days appears to be safe and without the side effects associated with long-term use. Plans for a randomized, placebo-controlled Phase II trial of tiopronin for neuroprotection following aSAH are underway.
Inflammation has been implicated in the development of many human epithelial cancers, including those of the stomach, lung, colon, and prostate. Tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) is a potent pleiotropic, proinflammatory cytokine produced by many cells in response to injury and inflammation. Here, we show that TNF-α exposure results in increased production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), with a concomitant increase in the production of 8-oxo-deoxyguanosine, a marker for oxidative DNA damage, in human lung bronchial epithelial cells. The source of the ROS in TNF-α–treated cells was determined by both pharmacologic and small interfering RNA (siRNA) strategies to be spermine oxidase (SMO/PAOh1). SMO/PAOh1 oxidizes spermine into spermidine, 3-aminopropanal, and H2O2. Inhibition of TNF-α–induced SMO/PAOh1 activity with MDL 72,527 or with a targeted siRNA prevented ROS production and oxidative DNA damage. Further, similar induction in SMO/PAOh1 is observed with treatment of another inflammatory cytokine, interleukin-6. The data are consistent with a model that directly links inflammation and DNA damage through the production of H2O2 by SMO/PAOh1. Further, these results suggest a common mechanism by which inflammation from multiple sources can lead to the mutagenic changes necessary for the development and progression of epithelial cancers. (Cancer Res 2006; 66(23): 11125-30)
Intracellular spermine and spermidine are degraded by spermidine/spermine N 1 -acetyltransferase (SSAT) and N 1 -acetylpolyamine oxidase (APAO). SSAT, a highly inducible enzyme, catalyzes the transfer of an acetyl group from acetyl-coenzyme A to the aminopropyl moiety of spermine and spermidine. APAO was previously described as polyamine oxidase but it preferentially catalyzes the oxidation of the N 1 -acetylspermine and N 1 -acetylspermidine produced by SSAT activity. This oxidation results in the production of H 2 O 2 , 3-acetoaminopropanal, and putrescine or spermidine (Spd), depending on the initial substrate [15] [16] [17] . Mammalian spermine oxidase (SMO) is an inducible enzyme that specifically oxidizes spermine, with the production of H 2 O 2 , 3-aminopropanal (3AP) and spermidine [16, 17] .
Aromatic components are difficult substrates for enzymes catalyzing stereoselective carboligation reactions. We have engineered transketolase from Geobacillus stearothermophilus by directed evolution to utilize arylalkanals and benzaldehyde as the electrophilic substrate in highly stereoselective C–C bond forming conversions. Enzyme variants were discovered with rate accelerations up to 28-fold that convert 2-phenylethanal, 3-phenylpropanal, phenyloxyethanal, benzyloxyethanal, and (N-Cbz)-3-aminopropanal with formation of the corresponding aryl-substituted 1,3-dihydroxyketones in good yields (60–72%) and virtually complete (3S)-stereoselectivity (>99% ee). Novel double-site variants were also found for the conversion of benzaldehyde.
Aromatic components are difficult substrates for enzymes catalyzing stereoselective carboligation reactions. We have engineered transketolase from Geobacillus stearothermophilus by directed evolution to utilize arylalkanals and benzaldehyde as the electrophilic substrate in highly stereoselective C-C bond forming conversions. Enzyme variants were discovered with rate accelerations up to 28-fold that convert 2-phenylethanal, 3-phenylpropanal, phenyloxyethanal, benzyloxyethanal, and (N-Cbz)-3-aminopropanal with formation of the corresponding aryl-substituted 1,3-dihydroxyketones in good yields (60-72%) and virtually complete (3S)-stereoselectivity (>99% ee). Novel double-site variants were also found for the conversion of benzaldehyde.
Abstract This work examines the influence of N -protecting groups on the conversion and stereoselectivity of dihydroxyacetone phosphate (DHAP) dependent aldolase-catalyzed aldol additions of DHAP to N -protected-3-aminopropanal. Phenylacetyl-(PhAc-), tert -butyloxycarbonyl- ( t Boc-) and fluoren-9-ylmethoxycarbonyl- (Fmoc-)-3-aminopropanal were evaluated as substrates for d -fructose 1,6-bisphosphate aldolase from rabbit muscle (RAMA), and l -rhamnulose-1-phosphate aldolase (RhuA) and l -fuculose-1-phosphate aldolase (FucA), both from Escherichia coli . Using PhAc and t Boc ca. 70% conversions to the aldol adduct were achieved, whereas Fmoc gave maximum conversions of ca. 25%. The stereoselectivity of the DHAP-aldolases did not depend on the N -protected-3-aminopropanal derivative. Moreover, inversion of FucA stereoselectivity relative to that obtained with the natural l -lactaldehyde was observed. Both N -PhAc and t Boc adduct product derivatives were successfully deprotected by penicillin G acylase (PGA)-catalyzed hydrolysis at pH 7 and by treatment with aqueous TFA (6% v/v), respectively. However, the corresponding cyclic imine sugars could not be isolated, presumable due to the presence of a highly reactive primary amine and a keto group in the molecule, which lead to a number of unexpected reactions.
Synthesis of L-[2,3,4,5-D4]ornithine in which all of the diastereotopic hydrogens were stereoselectively labeled with deuterium was investigated. The chirally deuterated 3-aminopropanal derivative, a key intermediate in this synthesis, was prepared by a catalytic deuteration of an unsaturated γ-lactone derived for L-glutamic acid followed by several functional group interconversions. Condensation of the obtained deuterium-labeled 3-aminopropanal derivative with a chiral glycine template afforded unsaturated ornithine. The dehydroornithine was then subjected to a catalytic deuteration followed by deprotection to give the L-[2,3,4,5-D4]ornithine. Copyright © 2002 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Abstract 4-Aminobutanal dehydrogenase has been purified from a Pseudomonas species. The enzyme has high activity toward aminoaldehydes (4-aminobutanal or 3-aminopropanal) and low activity toward succinic semialdehyde as substrate. The kinetic constants, effect of p-hydroxymercuribenzoate, and pH profile with different substrates are documented. The enzyme has a molecular weight of 228,000 as determined by gel filtration and polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis with reference proteins. Electrophoresis in sodium dodecyl sulfate gave a subunit molecular weight of 75,000 indicating that this is a three-subunit enzyme.
Several other pathways are believed to exist in other organisms to supply β -alanine: degradation of propionate into malonic semialdehyde (MSA) and subsequent transamination 13 , a reductive uracil degradation pathway using dihydrouracil as an intermediate 14 , and an oxidative degradation of spermine into β -alanine using 3-aminopropanal as an upstream precursor 15 . However, within E. coli, these pathways are not known to exist. Here, we show that to overcome damage to the β -alanine pathway, E. coli metabolism can be repaired through the emergence of at least three novel metabolic pathways to produce β -alanine. Our results demonstrate the intrinsic pliability of biological systems.
Spermine oxidase (SMOX) is a flavin-containing enzyme that oxidizes spermine to produce spermidine, 3-aminopropanaldehyde, and hydrogen peroxide. SMOX has been shown to play key roles in inflammation and carcinogenesis; indeed, it is differentially expressed in several human cancer types. Our previous investigation has revealed that SMOX purified after heterologous expression in Escherichia coli actually consists of monomers, covalent homodimers, and other higher-order forms. All association forms oxidize spermine and, after treatment with dithiothreitol, revert to SMOX monomer. Here, we report a detailed investigation on the thermal denaturation of SMOX and its association forms in native and reducing conditions. By combining spectroscopic methods (circular dichroism, fluorescence) and thermal methods (differential scanning calorimetry), we provide new insights into the structure, the transformation, and the stability of SMOX. While the crystal structure of this protein is not available yet, experimental results are interpreted also on the basis of a novel SMOX structural model, obtained in silico exploiting the recently solved acetylspermine oxidase crystal structure. We conclude that while at least one specific intermolecular disulfide bond links two SMOX molecules to form the homodimer, the thermal denaturation profiles can be justified by the presence of at least one intramolecular disulfide bond, which also plays a critical role in the stabilization of the overall three-dimensional SMOX structure, and in particular of its ﬂavin adenine dinucleotide-containing active site.
Polyamines represent a potential source of 4-aminobutyrate (GABA) in plants exposed to abiotic stress. Terminal catabolism of putrescine in Arabidopsis thaliana involves amine oxidase and the production of 4-aminobutanal, which is a substrate for NAD+-dependent aminoaldehyde dehydrogenase (AMADH). Here, two AMADH homologs were chosen (AtALDH10A8 and AtALDH10A9) as candidates for encoding 4-aminobutanal dehydrogenase activity for GABA synthesis. The two genes were cloned and soluble recombinant proteins were produced in Escherichia coli. The pH optima for activity and catalytic efficiency of recombinant AtALDH10A8 with 3-aminopropanal as substrate was 10.5 and 8.5, respectively, whereas the optima for AtALDH10A9 were approximately 9.5. Maximal activity and catalytic efficiency were obtained with NAD+ and 3-aminopropanal, followed by 4-aminobutanal; negligible activity was obtained with betaine aldehyde. NAD+ reduction was accompanied by the production of GABA and β-alanine, respectively, with 4-aminobutanal and 3-aminopropanal as substrates. Transient co-expression systems using Arabidopsis cell suspension protoplasts or onion epidermal cells and several organelle markers revealed that AtALDH10A9 was peroxisomal, but AtALDH10A8 was cytosolic, although the N-terminal 140 amino acid sequence of AtALDH10A8 localized to the plastid. Root growth of single loss-of-function mutants was more sensitive to salinity than wild-type plants, and this was accompanied by reduced GABA accumulation.
To elucidate endogenous mechanisms underlying cerebral damage during ischemia, brain polyamine oxidase activity was measured in rats subjected to permanent occlusion of the middle cerebral artery. Brain polyamine oxidase activity was increased significantly within 2 h after the onset of ischemia in brain homogenates (15.8 +/- 0.9 nmol/h/mg protein) as compared with homogenates prepared from the normally perfused contralateral side (7.4 +/- 0.5 nmol/h/mg protein) (P <0.05). The major catabolic products of polyamine oxidase are putrescine and 3-aminopropanal. Although 3-aminopropanal is a potent cytotoxin, essential information was previously lacking on whether 3-aminopropanal is produced during cerebral ischemia. We now report that 3-aminopropanal accumulates in the ischemic brain within 2 h after permanent forebrain ischemia in rats. Cytotoxic levels of 3-aminopropanal are achieved before the onset of significant cerebral cell damage, and increase in a time-dependent manner with spreading neuronal and glial cell death. Glial cell cultures exposed to 3-aminopropanal undergo apoptosis (LD50 = 160 microM), whereas neurons are killed by necrotic mechanisms (LD50 = 90 microM). The tetrapeptide caspase 1 inhibitor (Ac-YVAD-CMK) prevents 3-aminopropanal-mediated apoptosis in glial cells. Finally, treatment of rats with two structurally distinct inhibitors of polyamine oxidase (aminoguanidine and chloroquine) attenuates brain polyamine oxidase activity, prevents the production of 3-aminopropanal, and significantly protects against the development of ischemic brain damage in vivo. Considered together, these results indicate that polyamine oxidase-derived 3-aminopropanal is a mediator of the brain damaging sequelae of cerebral ischemia, which can be therapeutically modulated.
Polyamines represent a potential source of 4-aminobutyrate (GABA) in plants exposed to abiotic stress. Terminal catabolism of putrescine in Arabidopsis thaliana involves amine oxidase and the production of 4-aminobutanal, which is a substrate for NAD + -dependent aminoaldehyde dehydrogenase (AMADH). Here, two AMADH homologs were chosen (AtALDH10A8 and AtALDH10A9) as candidates for encoding 4-aminobutanal dehydrogenase activity for GABA synthesis. The two genes were cloned and soluble recombinant proteins were produced in Escherichia coli. The pH optima for activity and catalytic efficiency of recombinant AtALDH10A8 with 3-aminopropanal as substrate was 10.5 and 8.5, respectively, whereas the optima for AtALDH10A9 were approximately 9.5. Maximal activity and catalytic efficiency were obtained with NAD + and 3-aminopropanal, followed by 4-aminobutanal; negligible activity was obtained with betaine aldehyde. NAD + reduction was accompanied by the production of GABA and β-alanine, respectively, with 4-aminobutanal and 3-aminopropanal as substrates. Transient co-expression systems using Arabidopsis cell suspension protoplasts or onion epidermal cells and several organelle markers revealed that AtALDH10A9 was peroxisomal, but AtALDH10A8 was cytosolic, although the N-terminal 140 amino acid sequence of AtALDH10A8 localized to the plastid. Root growth of single loss-of-function mutants was more sensitive to salinity than wild-type plants, and this was accompanied by reduced GABA accumulation.
To elucidate endogenous mechanisms underlying cerebral damage during ischemia, brain polyamine oxidase activity was measured in rats subjected to permanent occlusion of the middle cerebral artery. Brain polyamine oxidase activity was increased significantly within 2 h after the onset of ischemia in brain homogenates (15.8 Ϯ 0.9 nmol/h/mg protein) as compared with homogenates prepared from the normally perfused contralateral side (7.4 Ϯ 0.5 nmol/h/mg protein) ( P Ͻ 0.05). The major catabolic products of polyamine oxidase are putrescine and 3-aminopropanal. Although 3-aminopropanal is a potent cytotoxin, essential information was previously lacking on whether 3-aminopropanal is produced during cerebral ischemia. We now report that 3-aminopropanal accumulates in the ischemic brain within 2 h after permanent forebrain ischemia in rats. Cytotoxic levels of 3-aminopropanal are achieved before the onset of significant cerebral cell damage, and increase in a time-dependent manner with spreading neuronal and glial cell death. Glial cell cultures exposed to 3-aminopropanal undergo apoptosis (LD 50 ϭ 160 M), whereas neurons are killed by necrotic mechanisms (LD 50 ϭ 90 M). The tetrapeptide caspase 1 inhibitor (Ac-YVAD-CMK) prevents 3-aminopropanal-mediated apoptosis in glial cells. Finally, treatment of rats with two structurally distinct inhibitors of polyamine oxidase (aminoguanidine and chloroquine) attenuates brain polyamine oxidase activity, prevents the production of 3-aminopropanal, and significantly protects against the development of ischemic brain damage in vivo. Considered together, these results indicate that polyamine oxidase-derived 3-aminopropanal is a mediator of the brain damaging sequelae of cerebral ischemia, which can be therapeutically modulated.
Plant aminoaldehyde dehydrogenases (AMADHs, EC 1.2.1.19) belong to the family 10 of aldehyde dehydrogenases and participate in the metabolism of compounds related to amino acids such as polyamines or osmoprotectants. Their broad specificity covers ω-aminoaldehydes, aliphatic and aromatic aldehydes as well as nitrogen-containing heterocyclic aldehydes. The substrate preference of plant AMADHs is determined by the presence of aspartic acid and aromatic residues in the substrate channel. In this work, 15 new N-acyl derivates of 3-aminopropanal (APAL) and 4-aminobutanal (ABAL) were synthesized and confirmed as substrates of two pea AMADH isoenzymes (PsAMADH 1 and 2). The compounds were designed considering the previously demonstrated conversion of N-acetyl derivatives as well as substrate channel dimensions (5–8 A × 14 A). The acyl chain length and its branching were found less significant for substrate properties than the length of the initial natural substrate. In general, APAL derivatives were found more efficient than the corresponding ABAL derivatives because of the prevailing higher conversion rates and lower K m values. Differences in enzymatic performance between the two isoenzymes corresponded in part to their preferences to APAL to ABAL. The higher PsAMADH2 affinity to substrates correlated with more frequent occurrence of an excess substrate inhibition. Molecular docking indicated the possible auxiliary role of Tyr163, Ser295 and Gln451 in binding of the new substrates. The only derivative carrying a free carboxyl group (N-adipoyl APAL) was surprisingly better substrate than ABAL in PsAMADH2 reaction indicating that also negatively charged aldehydes might be good substrates for ALDH10 family.
The concept of "oxidative stress" has become a mainstay in the field of neurodegeneration but has failed to differentiate critical events from epiphenomena and sequalae. Furthermore, the translation of current concepts of neurodegenerative mechanisms into effective therapeutics for neurodegenerative diseases has been meager and disappointing. A corollary of current concepts of "oxidative stress" is that of "aldehyde load". This relates to the production of reactive aldehydes that covalently modify proteins, nucleic acids, lipids and carbohydrates and activate apoptotic pathways. However, reactive aldehydes can also be generated by mechanisms other than "oxidative stress". We therefore hypothesized that agents that can chemically neutralize reactive aldehydes should demonstrate superior neuroprotective actions to those of free radical scavengers. To this end, we evaluated hydroxylamines as aldehyde-trapping agents in an in vitro model of neurodegeneration induced by the reactive aldehyde, 3-aminopropanal (3-AP), a product of polyamine oxidase metabolism of spermine and spermidine. In this model, the hydroxylamines N-benzylhydroxylamine, cyclohexylhydroxylamine and t-butylhydroxylamine were shown to protect, in a concentration-dependent manner, against 3-AP neurotoxicity. Additionally, a therapeutic window of 3 h was demonstrated for delayed administration of the hydroxylamines. In contrast, the free radical scavengers TEMPO and TEMPONE and the anti-oxidant ascorbic acid were ineffective in this model. Extending these tissue culture findings in vivo, we examined the actions of N-benzylhydroxylamine in the trimethyltin (TMT) rat model of hippocampal CA3 neurodegeneration. This model involves augmented polyamine metabolism resulting in the generation of reactive aldehydes that compromise mitochondrial integrity. In the rat TMT model, NBHA (50 mg/kg, sc, daily) provided 100% protection against neurodegeneration, as reflected by measurements of KCl-evoked glutamate release from hippocampal brain slices and septal high affinity glutamate uptake. In contrast, ascorbic acid (100 mg/kg, sc, daily) failed to protect CA3 neurons from TMT toxicity. In summary, our data support further evaluation of the concept of "aldehyde load" in neurodegeneration and the potential clinical investigation of agents that are effective traps for reactive aldehydes.
Spermine is a constituent of all vertebrate cells. Nevertheless, it exerts toxic effects if it accumulates in cells. Spermine is a natural substrate of the FAD-dependent polyamine oxidase, a constitutive enzyme of many cell types. It has been reported that the toxicity of spermine was enhanced if polyamine oxidase was inhibited. We were interested to examine spermine toxicity to human colon carcinoma-derived CaCo-2 cells because, in contrast to most tumor cell lines, CaCo-2 cells undergo differentiation, which is paralleled by changes in polyamine metabolism. CaCo-2 cells were remarkably resistant to spermine accumulation, presumably because spermine is degraded by polyamine oxidase at a rate sufficient to provide spermidine for the maintenance of growth. Inactivation of polyamine oxidase increased the sensitivity to spermine. A major reason for the enhanced spermine cytotoxicity at low polyamine oxidase activity is presumably the profound depletion of spermidine, and the consequent occupation of spermidine binding sites by spermine. Hydrogen peroxide and the aldehydes 3-aminopropanal and 3-acetamidopropanal, the products of polyamine oxidase-catalyzed splitting of spermine and N1-acetylspermine, contribute little to spermine cytotoxicity. Activation of caspase by spermine was insignificant, and the formation of DNA ladders, another indicator of apoptotic cell death, could not be observed. Thus it appears that cell death due to excessive accumulation of spermine in CaCo-2 cells was mainly nonapoptotic. The content of brush border membranes did not change between days 6 and 8 after seeding, and it was not affected by exposure of the cells to spermine. However, the activities of alkaline phosphatase, sucrase, and aminopeptidase in nontreated cells were considerably enhanced during this period, but remained low if cells were exposed to spermine. These changes appear to indicate that differentiation is prevented by intoxication with spermine, although other explanations cannot be excluded.
A novel cascade reaction for the production of aldol adduct (3S,4R)-6-[(benzyloxycarbonyl)amino]-5,6-dideoxyhex-2-ulose was studied in this work. The strategy combines three enzymes in one pot: (i) horse liver alcohol dehydrogenase for the oxidation of N-Cbz-3-aminopropanol to the corresponding aldehyde, (ii) NADH oxidase for the regeneration of coenzyme NAD+ and (iii) D-fructose-6-phosphate aldolase from E. coli A129S variant for the aldol addition of dihydroxyacetone to N-Cbz-3-aminopropanal. On the basis of preliminary experiments, optimization of the initial reaction conditions was done using statistical methods, i.e. factorial design of experiments. 79% yield of aldol adduct was achieved in the batch reactor after optimization.
In mammalian cells, the flavoprotein spermine oxidase (SMO) catalyzes the oxidation of spermine to spermidine and 3-aminopropanal. Mechanistic studies have been conducted with the recombinant human enzyme. The initial velocity pattern in which the ratio between the concentrations of spermine and oxygen is kept constant establishes the steady-state kinetic pattern as ping-pong. Reduction of SMO by spermine in the absence of oxygen is biphasic. The rate constant for the rapid phase varies with the substrate concentration, with a limiting value (k3) of 49 s−1 and an apparent Kd value of 48 μM at pH 8.3. The rate constant for the slow step is independent of the spermine concentration, with a value of 5.5 s−1, comparable to the kcat value of 6.6 s−1. The kinetics of the oxidative half-reaction depend on the aging time after the spermine and enzyme are mixed in a double-mixing experiment. At an aging time of 6 s, the reaction is monophasic with a second-order rate constant of 4.2 mM−1 s−1. At an aging time of 0...
Multistep enzyme-catalyzed reactions 1 are gaining signicant attention, especially for the industrial production of ne chemicals in the pharmaceutical sector and of commodity bulk chemicals due to their low environmental impact and sustainability. 2, 3 One interesting approach to these reactions is the use of several different cell-free biocatalysts in one-pot (Systems Biocatalysis) 4-8 mimicking the biosynthetic pathways in living cells. 9 These reactions are simple to operate and analyze for pathway engineering and process optimization. There is no need for the isolation of reaction intermediates, which results in favorable yields and lower consumption of chemicals. 4, 9 Furthermore, unfavorable equilibrium reactions can also benet from the cascade concept since continuous removal of product in a subsequent reaction step can drive the reaction towards product formation. 6 Up to now, a large number of biocatalytic cascade reactions has been developed; from simple oxido-reduction reaction coupled with cofactor regeneration, to highly complex multi-enzyme synthesis. 4, 10 In this work, a novel enzymatic cascade consisting of amino alcohol oxidation to amino aldehyde and aldol addition reaction was developed for the synthesis of the aldol precursor (3, Scheme 1) of D-fagomine. D-Fagomine is a naturally occurring iminosugar which can be found in plants in small quantities. 11, 12 It is a known inhibitor of glycoprocessing enzymes [13] [14] [15] which reduces the risk of developing insulin resistance and obesity 16 and may promote the adhesion of benecial bacteria (e.g. Lactobacillus). 17 It can be used as dietary supplement or a component of functional food. 18 The synthesis of this compound via chemo-enzymatic pathway is a prime example of the efficiency of such method in comparison to purely chemical process. 19 The strategy devised in this work consisted of the simultaneous use of three enzymes: horse liver alcohol dehydrogenase (HLADH) used for the oxidation of N-Cbz-3-aminopropanol (1) to N-Cbz-3-aminopropanal (2), D-fructose-6-phosphate aldolase (FSA) variant A129S for the aldol addition, and a third enzyme; NADH oxidase (NOX) for coenzyme regeneration (Scheme 1). The product of this cascade reaction is (3S,4R)-6-[(benzyloxycarbonyl)amino]-5,6-dideoxyhex-2-ulose (3, Scheme 1), a precursor of D-fagomine. The aldol addition of dihydroxyacetone (DHA) to 2 catalyzed by FSA to furnish 3, was studied in detail in our previous works. 20, 21 Since the amino aldehyde 2 is unstable, the purpose of the cascade reaction was to produce it in situ by oxidation of 1. Similar amino alcohol was oxidized by different authors in reactions catalyzed by chloroperoxidase with the addition of tert-butyl hydroperoxide or hydrogen peroxide, 22 by laccase/O 2 /TEMPO 23 and alcohol oxidase. 23 These systems avoid the coenzyme addition, but all of them are unselective towards the substrate, and result in over-oxidation of the part of amino alcohol to amino acid. We propose the use of horse liver alcohol dehydrogenase, which was successfully tested for oxidation of different amino alcohols, 24 and the use of NADH oxidase (NOX) for coenzyme regeneration. NOX is a avoprotein which oxidizes NADH to NAD + , and was isolated and puried from Lactococcus lactis. 25, 26 To the best of our knowledge this kind of system (Scheme 1) was not investigated before. Amino alcohol oxidation combined with aldol addition was studied by Mifsud and co-authors 23 in one pottwo step consecutive reactions because of the incompatible reaction conditions for both biocatalysts. In the present approach, the reaction was carried out in one-pot with simultaneous addition of three enzymes. This system is a highly promising alternative to the one previously mentioned, since coenzyme regeneration is elegantly resolved by the addition of NADH oxidase, and the problem of thermodynamic equilibrium of oxidation 25, 27, 28 catalyzed by ADH could be overcome. The studied process uses environmentally friendly technology and offers a novel approach to the subject. It spares the enzymes of negative effect of peroxides used in previous works 22, 23 and of additional chemicals such as TEMPO which pollute the product and complicate its purication. Coenzyme regeneration by NADH oxidase does not add any new compounds to the system, and requires only a minimal amount of oxygen in the solution for the maximum enzyme activity. 25 
We have identified an apparent linkage between IRI and polyamine backconversion (4, 38). Our previous studies indicate that the expression of SSAT and to a lesser extent spermine oxidase (SMO) increase in the kidney and liver after IRI (4, 38). Polyamines are aliphatic cations that are important in interactions between nucleic acids and between nucleic acids and proteins, as well as between proteins (12, 16, 19, 27) . These molecules are critical in the regulation of DNA and chromatin structure, gene transcription, and signal transduction (12, 16, 19, 27) . Because of their physiological significance the metabolism of polyamines is tightly regulated. The synthetic arm of polyamine pathway consists of decarboxylation of ornithine by ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) to produce putrescine (Put) followed by sequential addition of aminopropyl groups to Put and spermidine (Spd) to form Spd and spermine (Spm), respectively (Fig. 1) . Polyamine catabolism, on the other hand, is mediated by the backconversion pathway in which Spm or Spd are first acetylated by SSAT and then oxidized by polyamine oxidase (PAO) to yield Spd or Put, respectively, along with stoichiometric amounts of hydrogen peroxide (H 2 O 2 ) and acetyl-3-aminopropanal. Alternatively, Spm can be directly converted to Spd via the spermine oxidase (SMO) reaction, which also generates H 2 O 2 and 3-aminopropanal.
On the other hand, polyamine oxidase produces 3-aminopropanal from spermine, which also forms acrolein Key words: acrolein, polyamine oxidase, spermine, uraemic toxin. Abbreviation used: FBS, fetal bovine serum. 1 To whom correspondence should be addressed (e-mail iga16077@p.chiba-u.ac.jp).
Abstract Spermine oxidase oxidizes spermine to produce H2O2, spermidine, and 3-aminopropanal. It is involved in cell drug response, apoptosis, and in the etiology of several pathologies, including cancer. Spermine oxidase is an important positive regulator of muscle gene expression and fiber size and, when repressed, leads to muscle atrophy. We have generated a transgenic mouse line overexpressing Smox gene in all organs, named Total-Smox. The spermine oxidase overexpression was revealed by β-Gal staining and reverse-transcriptase/PCR analysis, in all tissues analysed. Spermine oxidase activity resulted higher in Total-Smox than controls. Considering the important role of this enzyme in muscle physiology, we have focused our study on skeletal muscle and heart of Total-Smox mice by measuring redox status and oxidative damage. We assessed the redox homeostasis through the analysis of the reduced/oxidized glutathione ratio. Chronic H2O2 production induced by spermine oxidase overexpression leads to a cellular redox state imbalance in both tissues, although they show different redox adaptation. In skeletal muscle, catalase and glutathione S-transferase activities were significantly increased in Total-Smox mice compared to controls. In the heart, no differences were found in CAT activity level, while GST activity decreased compared to controls. The skeletal muscle showed a lower oxidative damage than in the heart, evaluated by lipid peroxidation and protein carbonylation. Altogether, our findings illustrate that skeletal muscle adapts more efficiently than heart to oxidative stress H2O2-induced. The Total-Smox line is a new genetic model useful to deepen our knowledge on the role of spermine oxidase in muscle atrophy and muscular pathological conditions like dystrophy.
Abstract A Pseudomonas species isolated in this laboratory was adapted to grow on spermidine, bis(3-aminopropyl)amine and putrescine as the sole source of C and N and the distribution pattern of aminoaldehyde dehydrogenases was studied. Ammonium sulfate fractionation of the crude extracts from cells grown on spermidine, bis(3-aminopropyl)amine, and putrescine revealed the presence of multiple nonspecific aminoaldehyde dehydrogenases. The aminoaldehyde dehydrogenase which is most likely involved in the dehydrogenation of 3-aminopropanal is composed of two isozymes which are separable by a DEAE-Sephadex column and electrophoresis on polyacrylamide gel. The isozymes of 3-aminopropanal dehydrogenase have been purified from 80- to 200-fold and have been shown to have different catalytic properties and electrophoretic mobilities.
There are many compounds for which the classical formula (Lewis structure) is apparently not consistent with the observed chemical behaviour. For example, an aminoaldehyde such as 3-aminopropanal has properties of both an amine and a carbonyl compound, and is well represented by the formula Open image in new window . But propanamide, which also has an amino group and a carbonyl group in its structure, Open image in new window , is appreciably less basic than an aliphatic amine, and does not react at all with many of the reagents (weak nucleophiles) which attack the carbonyl group in aldehydes and ketones. It would appear that when these two functional groups are adjacent to one another, they are each able to modify the properties of the other in a way which would not be predicted from the Lewis formula*.
Spermine oxidase (SMO) was discovered much more recently than other enzymes involved in polyamine metabolism; this review summarizes 10 years of researches on this enzyme. Spermine oxidase (SMO) is a FAD-dependent enzyme that specifically oxidizes spermine (Spm) and plays a dominant role in the highly regulated mammalian polyamines catabolism. SMO participates in drug response, apoptosis, response to stressful stimuli and etiology of several pathological conditions, including cancer. SMO is a highly inducible enzyme, its deregulation can alter polyamine homeostasis, and dysregulation of polyamine catabolism is often associated with several disease states. The oxidative products of SMO activity are spermidine, and the reactive oxygen species H2O2 and the aldehyde 3-aminopropanal each with the potential to produce cellular damages and pathologies. The SMO substrate Spm is a tetramine that plays mandatory roles in several cell functions, such as DNA synthesis, cellular proliferation, modulation of ion channels function, cellular signaling, nitric oxide synthesis and inhibition of immune responses. The goal of this review is to cover the main biochemical, cellular and physiological processes in which SMO is involved.
A new isosteric charge-deficient spermine analogue, 1,12-diamino-4,9-diaza-5-oxadodecan, and O-(7-amino-4-azaheptyl)oxime of 3-aminopropanal, a stable analogue of the Schiff base intermediate in the enzymatic oxidation of spermine, were synthesized. The possible use of these compounds for the inhibition of spermine oxidase is discussed.
Abstract Two d -fructose-6-phosphate aldolase variants namely, single variant FSA A129S and double variant FSA A129S/A165G, were used as catalysts in the aldol addition of dihydroxyacetone (DHA) to N -Cbz-3-aminopropanal. Mathematical model for reaction catalyzed by both enzymes, consisting of kinetic and mass balance equations, was developed. Kinetic parameters were estimated from the experimental data gathered by using the initial reaction rate method. The model was validated in the batch and continuously operated ultrafiltration membrane reactor (UFMR). The same type of kinetic model could be applied for both enzymes. The operational stability of the aldolases was assessed by measuring enzyme activity during the experiments. FSA A129S/A165G had better operational stability in the batch reactor (half-life time 26.7 h) in comparison to FSA A129S (half-life time 5.78 h). Both variants were unstable in the continuously operated UFMR in which half-life times were 1.99 and 3.64 h for FSA A129S and FSA A129S/A165G, respectively.
Cylindramide (1) was built up from three components: a hydroxyornithine derivative 7, a tetrazolylsulfone 8, and a substituted pentalene subunit 9. Derivative 7 was prepared in a six-step reaction sequence involving the Wittig reaction and a Sharpless asymmetric dihydroxylation starting from N-Boc-3-aminopropanal (12). Tetrazolylsulfone 8 was accessible in four steps from dioxinone 22. The synthesis of the pentalene fragment 9 started from cycloocta-1,5-diene 26, that was converted into enantiopure bicyclo[3.3.0]octanedione 29. The latter was functionalized to give derivative 9. The total synthesis was accomplished by inducing C-C bond formation by Sonogashira coupling of derivatives 9 and 7 followed by olefination with tetrazolylsulfone 8 under Julia-Kocienski conditions, macrocyclization, and subsequent Lacey-Dieckmann condensation to form the tetramic acid unit. As indicated by extensive 1H and 13C NMR spectroscopic investigations (DQF-COSY, ROESY spectra), the stereochemistry of synthetic cylindramide (1) corresponds with that of the naturally occurring product. ROE data were used for molecular modeling of the lowest-energy structures for cylindramide.
Polyamine oxidases are key enzymes responsible of the polyamine interconversion metabolism in animal cells. Recently, a novel enzyme belonging to this class of enzymes has been characterized for its capability to oxidize preferentially spermine and designated as spermine oxidase. This is a flavin adenine dinucleotide-containing enzyme, and it has been expressed both in vitro and in vivo systems. The primary structure of mouse spermine oxidase (mSMO) was deduced from a cDNA clone (Image Clone 264769) recovered by a data base search utilizing the human counterpart of polyamine oxidases, PAOh1. The open reading frame predicts a 555-amino acid protein with a calculated M(r) of 61,852.30, which shows a 95.1% identity with PAOh1. To understand the biochemical properties of mSMO and its structure/function relationship, the mSMO cDNA has been subcloned and expressed in secreted and secreted-tagged forms into Escherichia coli BL21 DE3 cells. The recombinant enzyme shows an optimal pH value of 8.0 and is able to oxidize rapidly spermine to spermidine and 3-aminopropanal and fails to act upon spermidine and N(1)-acetylpolyamines. The purified recombinant-tagged form enzyme (M(r) approximately 68,000) has K(m) and k(cat) values of 90 microm and 4.5 s(-1), respectively, using spermine as substrate at pH 8.0. Molecular modeling of mSMO protein based on maize polyamine oxidase three-dimensional structure suggests that the general features of maize polyamine oxidase active site are conserved in mSMO.
Abstract 1. 1) The oxidation of spermine in vitro by a mixture of polyamine oxidase and diamine oxidase from pig kidney gives rise to malondialdehyde via 3-aminopropanal as the intermediate. Conversely, with spermidine, under similar experimental conditions, no evidence could be obtained for malondialdehyde formation within the limits of sensitivity of the assay (2.0 nmol). 2. 2) The activities of both these enzymes show about a 2-fold increase in normal rat kidney cells (LA31 NRK) transformed by the temperature sensitive mutant of Rous sarcoma virus (LA31) and incubated at the non permissive temperature (39°C) compared to the activities in LA31 NRK at the permissive temperature (33°C). These same enzymatic activities show no temperature dependent changes in normal rat kidney cells (NRK) or in these same cells infected by the wild type virus (NRK B77). 3. 3) In extracts derived from Friend erythroleukemic cells induced to differentiate by dimethyl sulfoxide or hexamethylene bis acetamide, spermine oxidation takes place more efficiently than in non induced cells. 4. 4) A rise in diamine oxidase activity is seen in LA31 NRK (39°C) 12 h after the temperature shift, whereas morphological manifestations of normalcy are seen only at 48 h. 5. 5) The Km of diamine oxidase is 10−6 M for putrescine and 10−3 M for 3-aminopropanal. 6. 6) A possible mechanism involving the well documented acetylation of putrescine [23,26] is proposed for diverting intracellular putrescine away from cytosolic diamine oxidase and towards intramitochondrial monoamine oxidase.
Abstract Spermine oxidase (SMO) is a FAD-containing enzyme involved in animal cell polyamines (PA) homeostasis, selectively active on spermine and producing H2O2, spermidine, and the 3-aminopropanal. In the present study, we have examined the SMO gene expression during the mouse myoblast C2C12 cell differentiation induced with two different stimuli by RT-PCR analysis, polysome-mRNP distribution and enzyme activity. SMO transcript accumulation and enzymatic activity increases during C2C12 cell differentiation and correlates with the decrease of spermine content. Many proteins are highly regulated during the phenotypic conversion of rapidly dividing C2C12 myoblasts into fully differentiated post-mitotic myotubes. The SMO gene induction represents a novel and additional marker of C2C12 cell differentiation. The sub-cellular localization of the SMOα and SMOμ splice variants is not involved in the differentiation processes. Nuclear localization of only the SMOμ protein was confirmed.
This thesis describes new and original experimental results on Cu-dependent amine oxidases (CAOs), which show that these enzymes can be conveniently and specifically detected in situ using a peroxidase-coupled activity staining method with 4-Cl-1-naphtole as hydrogen donor substrate. Even more sensitive in situ detection can be achieved using a chemiluminescence-based coupled peroxidase assay which was applied to show that human placenta CAO activity is confined to maternal vessels. A general purification scheme for CAOs is described, and applied to purification of different CAOs. Peptide maps and immunological crossreactivity studies with monoclonal antibodies raised against the purified enzymes showed that they were closely related. Amino acid sequence data for the bovine serum CAO showed that they form a separate group (E.C. 1.4.3.6) with no homology to other enzymes. A cDNA sequence was obtained on the basis of the amino acid sequence data, and this was found to encode a bovine lung CAO, related to bovine serum CAO. The genes for bovine lung and bovine serum CAO are characterized, and Southern blotting analysis of bovine chromosomal DNA shows the existence of a least one more bovine CAO. The purification of human neutrophil CAO is attempted, but it is described how lactoferrin, a protein with many properties in common with CAOs, and with a low degree of sequence identity can account for many observations on human neutrophil CAO. The products of bovine serum CAO oxidation of polyamines are characterised, and 3-aminopropanal is found to be the principal aminoaldehyde produced. Finally, a polyamine-stimulated binding of human placenta CAO to single-stranded DNA is described, and it is reported that the DNA-bound CAO is enzymically active and that the oxidation of DNA-bound polyamines leads to degradation of DNA. In addition to the experimental results, the properties of polyamines and Cu-dependent amine oxidases are reviewed. The polyamines spermidine and spermine interact specifically with nucleic acids and several other molecules. They are synthesised from putrescine, which is a key regulatory molecule formed from ornithine by ornithine decarboxylase, a highly inducible and regulated enzyme. The polyamines can be converted to putrescine by CAOs or spermidine/spermine acetyltransferase and polyamine oxidase. Putrescine is degraded by CAOs, which are also involved in degradation of histamine, a mediator of inflammatory processes. CAOs catalyse the general reaction: R1CH2NHR2 + O2 + H2O-->R1CHO + R2NH2 + H2O2 and in addition to the catabolism of putrescine and histamine CAOs are involved in regulation of growth and apoptosis by to the generation of aminoaldehydes and hydrogen peroxide which have growth inhibitory properties. Several homologous CAOs have been purified and characterized and they form a family with two subgroups. They are homodimers with a relative molecular weight of 180,000 and contain Cu2+ and a modified tyrosine, topaquinone, in the active site. CAOs are present in most tissues with highest amounts in intestine, kidneys, liver and placenta, but the cellular distributions and functions of CAOs are still poorly described, partly due to the use of many different assays and partly due to a broad substrate specificity of the enzymes. However, polyamines and CAOs seem to form a universal system contributing to regulation of growth, differentiation, and apoptosis.
The amino acid beta-alanine is an intermediate in pantothenic acid (vitamin B(5)) and coenzyme A (CoA) biosynthesis. In contrast to bacteria, yeast derive the beta-alanine required for pantothenic acid production via polyamine metabolism, mediated by the four SPE genes and by the FAD-dependent amine oxidase encoded by FMS1. Because amine oxidases generally produce aldehyde derivatives of amine compounds, we propose that an additional aldehyde-dehydrogenase-mediated step is required to make beta-alanine from the precursor aldehyde, 3-aminopropanal. This study presents evidence that the closely related aldehyde dehydrogenase genes ALD2 and ALD3 are required for pantothenic acid biosynthesis via conversion of 3-aminopropanal to beta-alanine in vivo. While deletion of the nuclear gene encoding the unrelated mitochondrial Ald5p resulted in an enhanced requirement for pantothenic acid pathway metabolites, we found no evidence to indicate that the Ald5p functions directly in the conversion of 3-aminopropanal to beta-alanine. Thus, in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, ALD2 and ALD3 are specialized for beta-alanine biosynthesis and are consequently involved in the cellular biosynthesis of coenzyme A.
Abstract Results of ab initio SCF (4-31G) studies of the potential energy surfaces of 3-aminopropanol and 3-aminopropanal are reported. Geometry data of all local minima are given and various intramolecular interactions are deduced from these data. All reaction paths in the potential energy surface of 3-aminopropanal and selected reaction paths in the potential energy surface of 3-aminopropanol are discussed.
Polyamine oxidase (PAO), which requires FAD as a cofactor, functions in polyamine catabolism. Plant PAOs are classified into two groups based on their reaction modes. The terminal catabolism (TC) reaction always produces 1,3-diaminopropane (DAP), H 2 O 2 , and the respective aldehydes, while the back-conversion (BC) reaction produces spermidine (Spd) from tetraamines, spermine (Spm) and thermospermine (T-Spm) and/or putrescine from Spd, along with 3-aminopropanal and H 2 O 2 . The Oryza sativa genome contains seven PAO-encoded genes termed OsPAO1-OsPAO7. To date, we have characterized four OsPAO genes. The products of these genes, i.e. OsPAO1, OsPAO3, OsPAO4 and OsPAO5, catalyze BC-type reactions. Whereas OsPAO1 remains in the cytoplasm, the other three PAOs localize to peroxisomes. Here, we examined OsPAO7 and its gene product. OsPAO7 shows high identity to maize ZmPAO1, the best characterized plant PAO having TC-type activity. OsPAO7 seems to remain in a peripheral layer of the plant cell with the aid of its predicted signal peptide and transmembrane domain. Recombinant OsPAO7 prefers Spm and Spd as substrates, and it produces DAP from both substrates in a time-dependent manner, indicating that OsPAO7 is the first TC-type enzyme identified in O. sativa. The results clearly show that two types of PAOs co-exist in O. sativa. Furthermore, OsPAO7 is specifically expressed in anthers, with an expressional peak at the bicellular pollen stage. The physiological function of OsPAO7 in anthers is discussed.
It is thought that cell damage is mainly caused by reactive oxygen species (ROS) 3 such as superoxide anion radical (O 2 Ϫ⅐ ), hydrogen peroxide (H 2 O 2 ), and hydroxyl radical (⅐OH). However, when we compared the toxicity of acrolein (CH 2 ϭCHCHO) and ROS, we found that acrolein was more toxic than H 2 O 2 4 and slightly more toxic than ⅐OH 5 in cell culture systems. Furthermore, acrolein is thought to be produced by lipid peroxidation, 6 but we found that it was more effectively produced from 2 polyamines (spermine and spermidine), 1 which are abundant and essential for cell growth in eukaryotic cells. 7 Acrolein is spontaneously formed from 3-aminopropanal (NH 2 [CH 2 ] 2 CHO) produced from spermine by spermine oxidase (SMO) and less effectively from 3-acetamidopropanal (CH 3 CONH[CH 2 ] 2 CHO) produced from spermine and spermidine by spermidine/spermine N 1 -acetyltransferase (SSAT) and acetylpolyamine oxidase (AcPAO). 8, 9 In this report, we examined whether acrolein is indeed produced from spermine and spermidine at the locus of infarction using photo-induced thrombosis model mice and found that PC-Acro is increased together with a decrease in spermine and spermidine during infarction.
In this study, we found a striking correlation between brain infarction and the level of PC-Acro at the locus of infarction. It has been reported that free acrolein is increased in Alzheimer disease brain, 21 and that another unsaturated aldehyde, 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (HNE) produced from unsaturated fatty acids at 4 hours after oxidative injury, is correlated with infarct volume at 48 hours, 22 although HNE is less toxic than acrolein. 21 There is also a report that aldehyde dehydrogenase, an acrolein and HNE degrading enzyme, functions in protection against oxidative stress. 23 It has been also reported that hydrogen acts as a therapeutic antioxidant of mice. 24 Under these conditions, the decrease in HNE by hydrogen was more distinct than that in oxidized guanine (8-OH-G), which is produced by ROS. Thus, not only ROS, but also unsaturated aldehydes such as acrolein and HNE should be taken into consideration as the factors of cell damage such as brain infarction. These phenomena are probably general among mammals because the data are obtained with mice, rats, and humans. It has been reported that acrolein can be produced from membrane phospholipids, although the major aldehydes produced during lipid peroxidation are malondialdehyde and HNE. 25 However, acrolein production from arachidonic acid during lipid peroxidation was very low. 1 There are reports that 3-aminopropanal, which automatically produces acrolein, is generated from spermine and is strongly involved in cell damage during ischemia in rats. 26 Accordingly, data obtained thus far strongly suggest that acrolein is mainly produced from spermine and spermidine.
Spermine oxidase (SMO), the most recently characterized polyamine metabolic enzyme, catalyzes the direct back-conversion of spermine to spermidine in an FAD-dependent reaction that also yields the byproducts hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) and 3-aminopropanal. These metabolites, particularly H(2)O(2), have been implicated in cytotoxic cellular responses to specific antitumor polyamine analogs, as well as in the inflammation-associated generation of DNA damage. This chapter describes a rapid, sensitive, and inexpensive method for the chemiluminescent measurement of SMO (or alternatively, N (1)-acetyl polyamine oxidase, APAO) enzyme activity in cultured cell lysates, without the need for radioactive reagents or the use of high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Specifically, H(2)O(2) production by SMO is coupled to chemiluminescence generated by the horseradish peroxidase-catalyzed oxidation of luminol. Detailed protocols for preparation of reagents, harvesting cell lysates, generation of a standard curve, assaying of samples, and calculation of SMO enzyme activity are presented.
Publisher Summary This chapter discusses assaying hydrogen peroxide using the earthworm bioluminescence system, which involves a two-step reaction where hydrogen peroxide and Diplocardia luciferin ( N -isovaleryl-3-aminopropanal) react to form a fairly stable intermediate, which subsequently reacts with the protein Diplocardia luciferase to produce light and unknown products. Because luciferin can be easily synthesized and the preparation of luciferase is straightforward, an assay for hydrogen peroxide using the Diplocardia system has been developed and tested. This assay can also be coupled to peroxide-producing oxidases to give a convenient system for monitoring their action at low substrate or enzyme concentrations. This bioluminescence assay for hydrogen peroxide is sensitive in the range of nanomolar concentrations of peroxide and has advantages over polarographic methods, direct spectrophotometric analysis, and chemical methods in its broad range of linearity, tolerance of turbidity, specificity, and ability to measure the rate of peroxide production in coupled assays.
In neurodegenerative diseases augmented polyamine metabolism results in the generation of hydrogen peroxide and a number of reactive aldehydes that participate in the death of compromised tissue. The major aldehydes produced by polyamine oxidase and amine oxidases include the 2-alkenal acrolein, the acetoamidoaldehyde 3-acetamidopropanal (3-AAP) and the aminoaldehydes 3-aminopropanal (3-AP) and 4-aminobutanal (4-AB). Using retinal ganglion cell (E1A-NR.3) cultures, we confirmed the cytotoxicity of acrolein and 3-AP. For the first time we also demonstrated the cytotoxicity of 4-AB and the lack of toxicity of 3-AAP. Our data with 3-AAP, a product of N-acetylspermine and N-acetylspermidine metabolism, indicate that the aldehyde function of aminoaldehydes is insufficient to express toxicity since the free amino group of aminoaldehydes is also required to gain access to lysosomes where their cytotoxic actions are expressed via leakage of cathepsins that compromise mitochondrial integrity. Metabolism of 3-AP to beta-alanine by aldehyde dehydrogenase was also evaluated in retinal ganglion cell cultures and found to proceed at a linear rate of 24.3+/-1 nmol/mg protein/h. These are the first data demonstrating the dynamic cellular detoxification of 3-AP by neural cells and support the concept that decrements in aldehyde elimination leading to an increase in "aldehyde load" may play pivotal roles in the development and progression of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease, multiple sclerosis and Parkinson's disease.
Fms1 is a rate-limiting enzyme for the biosynthesis of pantothenic acid in yeast. Fms1 has polyamine oxidase (PAO) activity, which converts spermine into spermidine and 3-aminopropanal. The 3-aminopropanal is further oxidized to produce beta-alanine, which is necessary for the biosynthesis of pantothenic acid. The crystal structures of Fms1 and its complex with the substrate spermine have been determined using the single-wavelength anomalous diffraction (SAD) phasing method. Fms1 consists of an FAD-binding domain, with Rossmann fold topology, and a substrate-binding domain. The active site is a tunnel located at the interface of the two domains. The substrate spermine binds to the active site mainly via hydrogen bonds and hydrophobic interactions. In the complex, C11 but not C9 of spermine is close enough to the catalytic site (N5 of FAD) to be oxidized. Therefore, the products are spermidine and 3-aminopropanal, rather than 3-(aminopropyl) 4-aminobutyraldehyde and 1,3-diaminoprone.
Polyamines, namely putrescine, spermidine, and spermine, are essential polycations involved in growth and differentiation (Fozard et al., 1980; Tabor and Tabor, 1984; Pegg et al., 1988) . Because high intracellular polyamine levels are known to be detrimental to cells (Auvinen et al., 1992) , polyamine content needs to be narrowly regulated by biosynthesis, degradation, and transport systems. Ornithine decarboxylase (ODC;* enzyme classification no. 4.1.1.17) is the first and rate-limiting enzyme in the synthesis of endogenous polyamines. This enzyme catalyzes the conversion of ornithine into putrescine, which is the precursor for higher polyamines. The amount of ODC is regulated by various growth factors and by polyamines at the levels of transcription (Katz and Kahana, 1987) , translation (White et al., 1987) , and degradation (van Daalen Wetters et al., 1989; Murakami et al., 1992; Matsufuji et al., 1995) . Treatment of mammalian tissues with D , L -␣ -difluoromethylornithine (DFMO), an active-site inhibitor of ODC (Bey et al., 1978; Meyskens and Gerner, 1999) , leads to a decrease in intracellular polyamine contents (Hillary and Pegg, 2003) . Spermidine and spermine originate from the successive transfers of aminopropyl moiety of decarboxylated S-adenosylmethionine to the secondary amines of putrescine. Spermine and spermidine can be retroconverted in spermidine and putrescine, respectively, by the polyamine interconversion pathway, leading to the production of oxidative intermediate products such as 3-aminopropanal.
Abstract The ability of chloroperoxidase (CPO) to catalyze amino alcohol oxidations was investigated. The oxidations of compounds with different configurations with respect to the amine position towards hydroxyl – using H 2 O 2 and tert -butyl hydroperoxide ( t -BuOOH) – were analyzed in terms of the initial reaction rate, substrate conversion, and CPO operational stability. It was observed that the further the amino group from the hydroxyl, the lower the initial reaction rate. The effect of the amino-protecting group and other substituents (i.e., methyl and hydroxyl) was also examined, revealing an increase in steric hindrance due to the effect of bulky substituents. The observed reaction rates were higher with t -BuOOH, whereas CPO was more stable with H 2 O 2 . Moreover, CPO stability had to be determined case by case as the enzyme activity was modulated by the substrate. The oxidation of N -Cbz-3-aminopropanol (Cbz, carboxybenzyl) to N -Cbz-3-aminopropanal was investigated. Main operational conditions such as the reaction medium, initial amino alcohol concentration, and peroxide nature were studied. The reaction kinetics was determined, and no substrate inhibition was observed. By-products from a chemical reaction between the formed amino aldehyde and the peroxide were identified, and a novel reaction mechanism was proposed. Finally, the biotransformation was achieved by reducing side reactions and identifying the key factors to be addressed to further optimize the product yield.
The metabolic degradation of aldehydes is catalyzed by oxidoreductases from which aldehyde dehydrogenases (EC 1.2.1) comprise nonspecific or substrate-specific enzymes. The latter subset is represented, e.g., by NAD+-dependent aminoaldehyde dehydrogenases (AMADHs; EC 1.2.1.19) oxidizing a group of naturally occurring ω-aminoaldehydes including polyamine oxidation products. Recombinant isoenzymes from pea (PsAMADH1 and 2) and tomato (LeAMADH1 and 2) were subjected to kinetic measurements with synthetic aldehydes containing a nitrogenous heterocycle such as pyridinecarbaldehydes and their halogenated derivatives, (pyridinylmethylamino)-aldehydes, pyridinyl propanals and aldehydes derived from purine, 7-deazapurine and pyrimidine to characterize their substrate specificity and significance of the resulting data for in vivo reactions. The enzymatic production of the corresponding carboxylic acids was analyzed by liquid chromatography coupled to electrospray ionization mass spectrometry. Although the studied AMADHs are largely homologous and supposed to have a very similar active site architecture, significant differences were observed. LeAMADH1 displayed the broadest specificity oxidizing almost all compounds followed by PsAMADH2 and 1. In contrast, LeAMADH2 accepted only a few compounds as substrates. Pyridinyl propanals were converted by all isoenzymes, usually better than pyridinecarbaldehydes and aldehydes with fused rings. The K m values for the best substrates were in the range of 10−5–10−4 M. Nevertheless, the catalytic efficiency values (V max/K m) reached only a very small fraction of that with 3-aminopropanal (except for LeAMADH1 activity with two pyridine-derived compounds). Docking experiments using the crystal structure of PsAMADH2 were involved to discuss differences in results with position isomers or alkyl chain homologs.
For the prototype nanofactory we selected D-fagomine synthesis -coupling three nanomachines in 73 series to convert glycerol (1) and 3-aminopropanal (3) into a chiral drug precursor ( Figure 2 ). Total 74 synthesis of this anti-diabetic piperidine iminosugar using non-biological catalysts is challenging, due 75 to the complexity conferred by its two stereocenters, and eight possible diastereomers, with even 76 recent advances only resulting in yields up to 65% of each diastereomer 16 . In our nanofactory (a 77 cascade of nanomachines), glycerol is converted to dihydroxyacetone phosphate (DHAP) (4) Table 2 ). 99
The potential of L-fuculose-1-phosphate aldolase (FucA) as a catalyst for the asymmetric aldol addition of dihydroxyacetone phosphate (DHAP) to N-protected amino aldehydes has been investigated. First, the reaction was studied in both emulsion systems and conventional dimethylformamide (DMF)/H2O (1:4 v/v) mixtures. At 100 mM DHAP, compared with the reactions in the DMF/H2O (1:4) mixture, the use of emulsion systems led to two- to three-fold improvements in the conversions of the FucA-catalyzed reactions. The N-protected aminopolyols thus obtained were converted to iminocyclitols by reductive amination with Pd/C. This reaction was highly diastereoselective with the exception of the reaction of the aldol adduct formed from (S)-N-Cbz-alaninal, which gave a 55:45 mixture of both epimers. From the stereochemical analysis of the resulting iminocyclitols, it was concluded that the stereoselectivity of the FucA-catalyzed reaction depended upon the structure of the N-Cbz-amino aldehyde acceptor. Whereas the enzymatic aldol reaction with both enantiomers of N-Cbz-alaninal exclusively gave the expected 3R,4R configuration, the stereochemistry at the C-4 position of the major aldol adducts produced in the reactions with N-Cbz-glycinal and N-Cbz-3-aminopropanal was inverted to the 3R,4S configuration. The study of the FucA-catalyzed addition of DHAP to phenylacetaldehyde and benzyloxyacetaldehyde revealed that the 4R product was kinetically favored, but rapidly disappeared in favor of the 4S diastereoisomer. Computational models were generated for the situations before and after C-C bond formation in the active site of FucA. Moreover, the lowest-energy conformations of each pair of the resulting epimeric adducts were determined. The data show that the products with a 3R,4S configuration were thermodynamically more stable and, therefore, the major products formed, in agreement with the experimental results.
The toxicity of extracellular spermine, determined in the presence of fetal calf serum, was studied using three cell lines: FM3A, L1210, and NIH3T3 cells. Amine oxidase in fetal calf serum produces aminodialdehyde generating acrolein spontaneously, H(2)O(2), and ammonia from spermine. Spermine toxicity was prevented by aldehyde dehydrogenase, but not by catalase. Similar concentrations of spermine and acrolein were needed to produce toxicity. Other aldehydes (formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, and propionaldehyde) and hydrogen peroxide were less toxic than acrolein. Spermidine and 3-aminopropanal, which produces acrolein, also exhibited severe cytotoxicity. The degree of cytotoxicity of spermine, spermidine, and 3-aminopropanal was nearly parallel with the amount of acrolein produced from each compound. Thus, it was deduced that acrolein is a major toxic compound produced from polyamines (spermine and spermidine) by amine oxidase.
The toxicity of extracellular spermine was studied using three cell lines: FM3A, L1210, and NIH3T3 cells in the presence of fetal calf serum. Amine oxidase in fetal calf serum produces aminodialdehyde generating acrolein spontaneously, H2O2, and ammonia from spermine. Spermine toxicity was prevented by aldehyde dehydrogenase, but not by catalase. Similar concentrations of spermine and acrolein were needed to produce toxicity. Other aldehydes (formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, and propionaldehyde) and hydrogen peroxide were less toxic than acrolein. Spermidine and 3-aminopropanal, which produces acrolein, also exhibited severe cytotoxicity. The degree of cytotoxicity of spermine, spermidine, and 3-aminopropanal was nearly parallel with the amount of acrolein produced from each compound. These results suggested that acrolein is a major toxic compound produced from polyamines (spermine and spermidine) by amine oxidase.
In ongoing studies of the neuroprotective properties of monoamine oxidase inhibitors, we found that phenelzine provided robust neuroprotection in the gerbil model of transient forebrain ischemia, with drug administration delayed up to 3 h post reperfusion. Since ischemia-reperfusion brain injury is associated with large increases in the concentrations of reactive aldehydes in the penumbra area, we investigated if the hydrazine function of phenelzine was capable of sequestering reactive aldehydes. Both aminoaldehydes and acrolein are generated from the metabolism of polyamines to putrescine by polyamine oxidase. These toxic aldehydes in turn compromise mitochondrial and lysosomal integrity and initiate apoptosis and necrosis. Previous studies have demonstrated that pharmacological neutralization of reactive aldehydes via the formation of thioacetal derivatives results in significant neuroprotection in ischemia-reperfusion injury, in both focal and global ischemia models. In our studies of acrolein and 3-aminopropanal toxicity, using an immortalized retinal cell line, we found that aldehyde sequestration with phenelzine was neuroprotective. The neuroprotection observed with phenelzine is in agreement with previous studies of aldehyde sequestering agents in the treatment of ischemia-reperfusion brain injury and supports the concept that "aldehyde load" is a major factor in the delayed cell losses of the ischemic penumbra.
Abstract The paper reports a study on the reactions of grass pea (Lathyrus sativus) amine oxidase (GPAO) with several aliphatic diamines. The influence of the chain length and of unsaturations in the molecules was examined. Kinetic measurements confirmed that trans-, i.e., (E)-2-butene-1,4-diamine (TDABE) and cis-, i.e., (Z)-2-butene-1,4-diamine (CDABE) could be classified as good substrates. Propane-1,3-diamine (DAP) and propene-1,3-diamine (DAPE) were only weakly oxidized, whereas 1,3-diamino-2-propanol (DAPL) was not utilized as a substrate. Contrary to the inactivator 2-butyne-1,4-diamine (DABI), DAPE was shown to be only a competitive inhibitor. DAP itself did not inhibit the catalytic activity. Irreversible inhibition of the activity occurred only after the incubation of GPAO with DABI; other diamines were without this effect. Differential pulse polarography and chromatofocusing confirmed that the aminoaldehyde product of DABI oxidation binds to the enzyme. Activity assay of pea aminoaldehyde dehydrogenase enabled us to detect the products of the oxidation of TDABE, CDABE, and DAP by GPAO. As the product of DAP oxidation, 3-aminopropanal (APAL) was detected by mass spectrometry and confirmed to be a potent noncompetitive inhibitor of GPAO. The absorption changes that occurred in the course of the reaction of GPAO with the diamines were investigated using rapid-scanning spectrophotometry. DABI, TDABE, CDABE, DAP, and DAPE reacted with GPAO providing characteristic maxima of the Cu(I)-semiquinolamine species that is formed in the catalytic cycle. The results presented here confirm that with the exception of DAPL, all the studied diamines could be classified as GPAO substrates, but only DABI can be considered as a mechanism-based inhibitor.
Abstract Aldol addition of dihydroxyacetone to N-Cbz-3-aminopropanal catalyzed by two d -fructose-6-phosphate aldolase variants, FSA A129S and FSA A129S/A165G, overexpressed in Escherichia coli was studied in microreactors. The presence of organic solvent was necessary due to poor solubility of N-Cbz-3-aminopropanal in water. Hence, three co-solvents were evaluated: ethyl acetate, acetonitrile and dimethylformamide (DMF). The influence of these solvents and their concentration on the enzyme activity was independently tested and it was found that all solvents significantly reduce the activity of FSA depending on their concentration. The reaction was carried out in three different microreactors; two without and one with micromixers. By increasing enzyme concentration, it was possible to achieve higher substrate conversion at lower residence time. Enzyme activity measured at the outlet flow of the microreactor at different residence time revealed that enzymes are more stable at lower residence times due to shorter time of exposure to organic solvent. The reaction in the batch reactor was compared with the results in microreactor with micromixers. Volume productivity was more than three fold higher in microreactor with micromixers than in the batch reactor for both aldolases. It was found to be 0.88 M d −1 and 0.80 M d −1 for FSA A129S and FSA A129S/A165G, respectively.
Some of the chemicals other than bet-ald that are substrates of BADs and AADs include; 3-aminopropanaldehyde, 3-dimethylsulfoniopropionaldehyde, c-guanidinobutyraldehyde (GGBald) and c-aminobutyraldehyde (GABald) (Trossat et al. 1997; Incharoensakdi et al. 2000; Sebela et al. 2000; Oishi and Ebina 2005) . The latter of these, GABald, is a four carbon aminoaldehyde derived from proline via putrescine oxidation that in solution exists in equilibrium with its cyclic form, D 1 -pyrroline (Struve and Christophersen 2003) , a precursor of 2AP in B. cerus (Adams and De Kimpe 2007) . GABald is the immediate precursor of c-aminobutyric acid (GABA) a four carbon amino acid that purportedly plays a role as a natural pesticide (Shelp et al. 2006 ) and has been shown to play a role in pollen tube growth and guidance (Palanivelu et al. 2003) .
During cerebral ischemia and following trauma, potent cytotoxic polyamine-derived aminoaldehydes form, diffuse, and damage adjacent tissues not directly subjected to the initial insult. One such aldehyde is 3-aminopropanal (3-AP). The mechanisms by which such a small aldehydic compound is excessively cytotoxic have been unclear until recently when we showed that 3-AP, having the structure of a weak lysosomotropic base, concentrates within the acidic vacuolar compartment and causes lysosomal rupture that, in turn, induces caspase activation and apoptotic cell death. Here, using cultured J774 cells and 3-AP as a way to selectively burst lysosomes, we show that moderate lysosomal rupture induces a transient wave of oxidative stress. The start of this oxidative stress period is concomitant with a short period of enhanced mitochondrial membrane potential that later fades and is replaced by a decreased potential before the oxidative stress diminishes. The result of the study suggests that oxidative stress, which has often been described during apoptosis induced by agonists other than oxidative stress per se, may be a consequence of lysosomal rupture with direct and/or indirect effects on mitochondrial respiration and electron transport causing a period of passing enhanced formation of reactive oxygen species.
Spermine oxidase is a FAD-dependent enzyme that specifically oxidizes spermine, and plays a central role in the highly regulated catabolism of polyamines in vertebrates. The spermine oxidase substrate is specifically spermine, a tetramine that plays mandatory roles in several cell functions, such as DNA synthesis, cellular proliferation, modulation of ion channels function, cellular signalling, nitric oxide synthesis and inhibition of immune responses. The oxidative products of spermine oxidase activity are spermidine, H2O2 and the aldehyde 3-aminopropanal that spontaneously turns into acrolein. In this study the reconstruction of the phylogenetic relationships among spermine oxidase proteins from different vertebrate taxa allowed to infer their molecular evolutionary history, and assisted in elucidating the conservation of structural and functional properties of this enzyme family. The amino acid residues, which have been hypothesized or demonstrated to play a pivotal role in the enzymatic activity, and substrate specificity are here analysed to obtain a comprehensive and updated view of the structure–function relationships in the evolution of spermine oxidase.
It was thus very surprising to us to see the provocative claim by Houen et al. (10) that the metabolism of polyamines (spermine and spermidine) by plasma amine oxidases occurs principally at the secondary rather than primary amine centers. These workers provided data on the sequential conversion of spermine to spermidine and then to putrescine, which they claimed resulted from regiospecific oxidation at the two internal secondary amine positions of spermine, releasing 1 and then 2 eq of 3-aminopropanal (Scheme 1). Upon attempted isolation, the latter is unstable with respect to elimination to acrolein and ammonia and could only be identified qualitatively by ion-exchange chromatography (before and after borohydride reduction) and by 1 H NMR spectroscopy. A review of the literature published since the initial studies by the Tabor group reveals that the formation of spermidine and then putrescine had been consistently observed (11-13), although Bachrach and co-workers (14) interpreted this to be a consequence not of secondary amine oxidation but of spontaneous elimination of acrolein by the labile aminopropionaldehyde products of terminal deamination (Scheme 2).
[Structure: see text] D-fructose-6-phosphate aldolase (FSA) mediates a novel straightforward two-step chemo-enzymatic synthesis of D-fagomine and some of its N-alkylated derivatives in 51% isolated yield and 99% de. The key step is the FSA-catalyzed aldol addition of simple dihydroxyacetone (DHA) to N-Cbz-3-aminopropanal. The use of FSA greatly simplifies the enzymatic procedures that used dihydroxyacetonephosphate or DHA/esters. Some N-alkyl derivatives synthesized elicited antifungal and antibacterial activity as well as enhanced inhibitory activity, and selectivity against beta-galactosidase and alpha-glucosidase.
Spermine oxidase is a FAD-containing enzyme involved in polyamines catabolism, selectively oxidizing spermine to produce H2O2, spermidine, and 3-aminopropanal. Spermine oxidase is highly expressed in the mouse brain and plays a key role in regulating the levels of spermine, which is involved in protein synthesis, cell division and cell growth. Spermine is normally released by neurons at synaptic sites where it exerts a neuromodulatory function, by specifically interacting with different types of ion channels, and with ionotropic glutamate receptors. In order to get an insight into the neurobiological roles of spermine oxidase and spermine, we have deregulated spermine oxidase gene expression producing and characterizing the transgenic mouse model JoSMOrec, conditionally overexpressing the enzyme in the neocortex. We have investigated the effects of spermine oxidase overexpression in the mouse neocortex by transcript accumulation, immunohistochemical analysis, enzymatic assays and polyamine content in young and aged animals. Transgenic JoSMOrec mice showed in the neocortex a higher H2O2 production in respect to Wild-Type controls, indicating an increase of oxidative stress due to SMO overexpression. Moreover, the response of transgenic mice to excitotoxic brain injury, induced by kainic acid injection, was evaluated by analysing the behavioural phenotype, the immunodistribution of neural cell populations, and the ultrastructural features of neocortical neurons. Spermine oxidase overexpression and the consequently altered polyamine levels in the neocortex affects the cytoarchitecture in the adult and aging brain, as well as after neurotoxic insult. It resulted that the transgenic JoSMOrec mouse line is more sensitive to KA than Wild-Type mice, indicating an important role of spermine oxidase during excitotoxicity. These results provide novel evidences of the complex and critical functions carried out by spermine oxidase and spermine in the mammalian brain.
Spermine oxidase is a FAD-containing enzyme involved in polyamines catabolism, selectively oxidizing spermine to produce H 2 O 2 , spermidine, and 3-aminopropanal. Spermine oxidase is highly expressed in the mouse brain and plays a key role in regulating the levels of spermine, which is involved in protein synthesis, cell division and cell growth. Spermine is normally released by neurons at synaptic sites where it exerts a neuromodulatory function, by specifically interacting with different types of ion channels, and with ionotropic glutamate receptors. In order to get an insight into the neurobiological roles of spermine oxidase and spermine, we have deregulated spermine oxidase gene expression producing and characterizing the transgenic mouse model JoSMOrec, conditionally overexpressing the enzyme in the neocortex. We have investigated the effects of spermine oxidase overexpression in the mouse neocortex by transcript accumulation, immunohistochemical analysis, enzymatic assays and polyamine content in young and aged animals. Transgenic JoSMOrec mice showed in the neocortex a higher H 2 O 2 production in respect to Wild-Type controls, indicating an increase of oxidative stress due to SMO overexpression. Moreover, the response of transgenic mice to excitotoxic brain injury, induced by kainic acid injection, was evaluated by analysing the behavioural phenotype, the immunodistribution of neural cell populations, and the ultrastructural features of neocortical neurons. Spermine oxidase overexpression and the consequently altered polyamine levels in the neocortex affects the cytoarchitecture in the adult and aging brain, as well as after neurotoxic insult. It resulted that the transgenic JoSMOrec mouse line is more sensitive to KA than Wild-Type mice, indicating an important role of spermine oxidase during excitotoxicity. These results provide novel evidences of the complex and critical functions carried out by spermine oxidase and spermine in the mammalian brain. 
Putrescine (Put), spermidine (Spd), and spermine (Spm) are endogenous polyamines (PAs) essential for cell growth, proliferation, regeneration, and differentiation [1] [2] [3] [4] . The functional role of natural PAs in the normal and diseased brain is under active research [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] . Early reports on the effects of PAs on neuronal firing and transmitter release were followed by compelling evidences showing that PAs are potentially involved in the regulation of a number of metabolic and electrophysiological processes [10] . Alteration of PAs content and their synthetic enzyme ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) in response to injuries, such as ischemia, hypoglycaemia, epilepsy, or trauma have been reported [11] [12] [13] [14] [15] . Even though these results suggest that PAs play an important role in neurodegeneration, the mechanisms whereby they participate in neuronal death, as well as the role of endogenous PAs in normal brain functioning, are to be elucidated yet. Specific interactions of PAs, in particular Spm, with different types of ion channels, have been reported [16, 17] . Intracellular PAs are able to block some types of K + and Na + channels and the glutamatergic AMPA (a-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid) and kainate receptors, while extracellular PAs modulate glutamatergic NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptors [16, [18] [19] [20] [21] . The catabolism of polyamines is finely regulated by the concerted action of three enzymes: spermidine/spermine-N1-acetyltransferase (SSAT), which acetylates Spm and Spd; acetylpolyamine oxidase (APAO), which oxidizes these acetylated derivatives, regenerating Spd and Put, respectively; and the flavoprotein spermine oxidase (SMO), directly oxidizing Spm to produce Spd, 3-aminopropanal and hydrogen peroxide (H 2 O 2 ).
Polyamine catabolic enzymes include spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase (SSAT), N 1 -acetylpolyamine oxidase (APAO), and spermine oxidase (SMO). Our previous work has shown that SMO is an FAD-dependent enzyme and can be rapidly induced from nearly undetectable to very high levels 18 . Furthermore, SMO is found both in the cytoplasm and in the nucleus and catalyses Spm into the aldehyde 3-aminopropanal, H 2 O 2 , and Spd [19] [20] [21] . As an inducible flavoenzyme, expression level of SMO is frequently upregulated in response to various diseases including tumours, infection and inflammation [22] [23] [24] [25] [26] . In infected gastric mucosal epithelial cells, the bacterial toxin CagA can up-regulate the expression of SMO, resulting in increased ROS production and DNA damage, and long-term chronic accumulation of these lesions will eventually lead to gastric cancer [27] [28] [29] . Additionally, significant upregulation of SMO activity was found in invasive prostate cancer 5 , neuroblastoma cells 30 , and liver cancer cells 31, 32 . These data have strongly implied that inhibition of SMO is a rational drug target for cancer therapy.
In the presence of amine oxidases polyamines arrest cell proliferation owing to the generation of hydrogen peroxide and amino aldehydes. In this investigation the bovine serum amine oxidase catalyzed oxidation of polyamines has been studied by HPLC analysis of dansylated reaction products with or without NaBH4 reduction and by NMR spectroscopy of the reaction products and 3-aminopropanal was found to be a major reaction product. These findings were further substantiated by analysis of the reaction products by ion-exchange chromatography and by analysis of the products formed by oxidation of polyamines by the cofactor of Cu amine oxidases, 6-hydroxydopa. 3-Aminopropanal is unstable and can give rise to acrolein by beta-elimination.
Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1 has two possible catabolic pathways of spermidine and spermine; one includes the spuA and spuB products with unknown functions and the other involves spermidine dehydrogenase (SpdH; EC 1.5.99.6) encoded by an unknown gene. The properties of SpdH in P. aeruginosa PAO1 were characterized and the corresponding spdH gene in this strain identified. The deduced SpdH (620 residues, calculated Mr of 68,861) had a signal sequence of 28 amino acids at the amino terminal and a potential transmembrane segment between residues 76 and 92, in accordance with membrane location of the enzyme. Purified SpdH oxidatively cleaved spermidine into 1,3-diaminopropane and 4-aminobutyraldehyde with a specific activity of 37 units (mg protein)(-1) and a Km value of 36 microM. The enzyme also hydrolysed spermine into spermidine and 3-aminopropanaldehyde with a specific activity of 25 units (mg protein)(-1) and a Km of 18 microM. Knockout of spdH had no apparent effect on the utilization of both polyamines, suggesting that this gene is minimally involved in polyamine catabolism. However, when spdH was fused to the polyamine-inducible promoter of spuA, it fully restored the ability of a spuA mutant to utilize spermidine. It is concluded that SpdH can perform a catabolic role in vivo, but P. aeruginosa PAO1 does not produce sufficient amounts of the enzyme to execute this function.
Even though bioluminescent oligochaetes rarely catch people's eyes due to their secretive lifestyle, glowing earthworms sighting reports have come from different areas on all continents except Antarctica. A major breakthrough in the research of earthworm bioluminescence occurred in the 1960s with the studies of the North American Diplocardia longa. Comparative studies conducted on 13 earthworm species belonging to six genera showed that N-isovaleryl-3-aminopropanal (Diplocardia luciferin) is the common substrate for bioluminescence in all examined species, while luciferases appeared to be responsible for the color of bioluminescence. The second momentous change in the situation has occurred with the discovery in Siberia (Russia) of two unknown luminous enchytraeids. The two bioluminescent systems belong to different types, have different spectral characteristics and localization, and different temperature and pH optima. They are unique, and this fact is confirmed by the negative results of all possible cross-reactions. The bioluminescent system of Henlea sp. comprises four essential components: luciferase, luciferin, oxygen and calcium ion. For Friderica heliota, the luminescent reaction requires five components: luciferase, luciferin, ATP, magnesium ion and oxygen. Along with luciferin, more than a dozen analogues were isolated from worm biomass. These novel peptide-like natural compounds represent an unprecedented chemistry found in terrestrial organisms.
Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1 has two possible catabolic pathways of spermidine and spermine; one includes the spuA and spuB products with unknown functions and the other involves spermidine dehydrogenase (SpdH; EC 1.5.99.6) encoded by an unknown gene. The properties of SpdH in P. aeruginosa PAO1 were characterized and the corresponding spdH gene in this strain identified. The deduced SpdH (620 residues, calculated M r of 68 861) had a signal sequence of 28 amino acids at the amino terminal and a potential transmembrane segment between residues 76 and 92, in accordance with membrane location of the enzyme. Purified SpdH oxidatively cleaved spermidine into 1,3-diaminopropane and 4-aminobutyraldehyde with a specific activity of 37 units (mg protein) "1 and a K m value of 36 mM. The enzyme also hydrolysed spermine into spermidine and 3-aminopropanaldehyde with a specific activity of 25 units (mg protein) "1 and a K m of 18 mM. Knockout of spdH had no apparent effect on the utilization of both polyamines, suggesting that this gene is minimally involved in polyamine catabolism. However, when spdH was fused to the polyamine-inducible promoter of spuA, it fully restored the ability of a spuA mutant to utilize spermidine. It is concluded that SpdH can perform a catabolic role in vivo, but P. aeruginosa PAO1 does not produce sufficient amounts of the enzyme to execute this function.
It has been shown that spermine and spermidine levels are significantly increased in various types of cancers including liver, colon, and brain [8, 9] . In contrast, a decrease of spermine and spermidine content in vitro by inhibition of their biosynthesis or activation of their degradation leads to the inhibition of cell growth or even cell death [8] . Therefore, polyamine depletion in vivo has been considered as a promising anticancer strategy. Indeed, inhibitors of ODC or inducers of SSAT, such as α-difluoromethylornithine (DFMO) and N 1 ,N 11 -diethylnorspermine (DENSpm), were evaluated as anticancer agents both in laboratory model systems and in several clinical trials [10] [11] [12] [13] [14] [15] . DFMO blocks polyamine biosynthesis by acting as an irreversible ODC inhibitor and therefore causes depletion of putrescine and spermidine [8] . DENSpm is a bis-alkylated polyamine analogue which is capable of inducing SSAT expression by up to 10-1000 fold thus leading to rapid exhaustion of spermine and spermidine levels and production of hazardous hydrogen peroxide and N-acetyl-3-aminopropanal [8, 9] . DENSpm-treated cells exhibit slower proliferation rates or undergo apoptosis. In animal models DENSpm was shown to exhibit promising anticancer activity thus paving the way for clinical trials. However, in phase I trials for advanced hepatocellular carcinoma [10] and non-small cell lung carcinoma [11] or metastatic breast cancer [12] , disease progression failed to stabilize in patients on DENSpm. Treatment of the patients with lung cancer showed minimal toxicity [11] , whereas in other cases severe central neural system (CNS) toxicity was noted [13] . In addition, in clinical trials of liver cancer almost 30% of patients exhibited elevation of aspartate aminotransferase (AST), a marker for hepatotoxicity [10] . Currently, the efficacy of DENSpm and its possible adverse effects should be investigated in other pathologies.
