Natural products have been an invaluable source of inspiration for medicinal and organic chemists and this field is constantly expanding and evolving to explore more and more aspects of where these products come from, what they do, and how they can be improved upon. The Burkart lab has taken a well-rounded approach to natural product chemistry in which many aspects of natural product synthesis and biosynthesis are examined. Our group is very much interested in the biosynthesis of fatty acid, polyketide, and NRPS natural products. Regardless the pathway, all three utilize a carrier protein (ACP for fatty acid and polyketide, PCP for NRPS) which forms a thioester with the biosynthetic intermediate and shuttles this intermediates between enzymes. The thiol arm that extends out from the carrier proteins originates from 4'- phosphopantotheine. The molecule coenzyme A is transferred onto the carrier protein by phosphopantothenoyl transferase enzyme. Chapter 1 of this dissertation describes the total synthesis of CJ-15,801 as well as a number of analogs and characterizes the way in which is disrupts the biosynthesis of coenzyme A in Staphylococcus aureus. The following chapters focus on a class of polyketide natural products, the spirohexenolides. While our group was examining a strain of Streptomyces for new natural products we discovered the spirohexenolides. Their isolation and structure elucidation as well as initial bioactivity studies are described in Chapter 2. Knowing that this class of molecules are bioactive though not knowing their target, we fluorescently tagged spirohexenolide A and used this probe to pull down its molecular target, identifying it as human macrophage migration inhibitory factor. This work is described in chapter 3. To further explore the role the spirohexenolides play in modulating hMIF activity we looked toward analog development. To do this, a synthetic route to the spirohexenolides would need to be accessed. Chapter 4 describes the ongoing efforts towards finalizing our synthetic route
PROBLEM TO BE SOLVED: To provide a pharmaceutical composition containing a specific L- carnitine compound and a hydroxybarboxylic acid and useful for the treatment of cardiovascular disorder, atherosclerosis, hyperlipemia and obesity caused by lipid metabolism disorder, the control of appetite and the treatment of anorexia. SOLUTION: This composition contains an excipient and (A) L-carnitine or an alkanoyl-L-carnitine having a 2-8C (branched)alkanoyl, especially a 2-6C (branched)alkanoyl as the alkanoyl group [e.g., acetyl, propionyl, butyryl or (iso)valeryl] or its salt and (B) a hydroxycitric acid or its derivative (e.g. its calcium salt, ester or an extract of fruit of garcia, Malabar tamarind, etc.) or pantothenic acid or its derivative (e.g., 4'-phosphopantothenate, 4'- phosphopantothenylcysteine, 4'-phosphopantotheine, pantotheine or pantethine). COPYRIGHT: (C)1997,JPO
Mammalian fatty acid synthase (FAS) is a complex multifunctional enzyme that contains seven catalytic domains and a phosphopantotheine prosthetic group on a single polypeptide and catalyzes the synthesis of palmitate from the substrates acetylCoA, malonyl-CoA, and NADPH (1) . This enzyme also plays a pivotal role in energy homeostasis by converting excess carbon intake into fatty acids for storage, which, when necessary, provide energy via h-oxidation (1). The endogenous synthesis of fatty acid is usually minimal in cells because diet supplies most of the fatty acids, and, consequently, FAS is expressed at low or undetectable level in most normal human tissues, with the exception of lactating breast and cycling endometrium (1) . In contrast, FAS is specifically overexpressed in a variety of human malignancies and therefore is considered as an ideal therapeutic target (1) (2) (3) (4) . For breast cancer, FAS has been reported to be overexpressed in tumor cells, correlate with peritumoral lymphatic vessel invasion and inversely correlate with disease-free survival (5) (6) (7) . Moreover, treatment of tumor cells with pharmacologic inhibitors of FAS leads to cell growth arrest and apoptosis of breast tumor cells both in vitro and in vivo, indicating that the elevated level of FAS observed in tumor tissue actually reflects a causal role of the enzyme in tumorigenesis (8) (9) (10) . However, how up-regulation of FAS promotes tumorigenesis and how inhibition of FAS leads to apoptosis in tumor cells remain unknown, although several possibilities have been speculated. It has been suggested that cell death resulting from the blockade of FAS may be metabolic in origin and occurs due to inhibition of fatty acid h-oxidation (10) . Furthermore, malonyl-CoA, which accumulates after treatment of tumor cells with FAS inhibitors, has been implicated, at least in part, in mediating the cytotoxicity (10, 11) . However, how the supraphysiologic level of malonyl-CoA leads to apoptosis is not yet known. In this report, we explored the mechanism of induction of apoptosis resulting from direct and specific inhibition of the FAS gene by small interfering RNA (siRNA). Our results indicate that apoptosis due to inhibition of FAS in breast tumor cells is mediated by up-regulation of ceramide following induction of the proapoptotic genes BNIP3, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL), and death-associated protein kinase 2 (DAPK2).
A rapid and stoichiometric method for the synthesis of analogues of coenzyme A is described. The method links the enzymes pantothenate kinase, phosphopantotheine adenylyltransferase, and dephosphocoenzyme A kinase in vitro to generate a variety of CoA analogues from chemically synthesized pantothenic acid derivatives. The Escherichia coli CoA biosynthetic enzymes were overexpressed as hexa-histidine-tagged proteins, providing an abundant source of pure active catalysts for the reaction. The synthesis of five novel CoA derivatives is reported and the method is shown to be robust and tolerant of a number of different pantothenic acid structures, which indicates that the procedure should be widely applicable.
Abstract The induction kinetics of both acyl carrier protein activity and lipid biosynthesis has been investigated during seed maturation in oil seed rape. Acyl carrier protein is induced prior to the onset of lipid biosynthesis and remains at a high level even after lipid biosynthesis has ceased. Acyl carrier protein was purified from maturing seeds of oil seed rape (Brassica napus). The protein was found to have limited stability of biological activity, which precluded purification to homogeneity using conventional methods. Purification, to electrophoretic homogeneity, was achieved following specific radiolabelling of the pantotheine domain, of the partially purified protein, with [3H]palmitic acid using Escherichia coli acyl ACP synthetase. The acylation introduces both a radiolabel, with which to follow the protein, and a highly hydrophobic domain, which is used as the basis of its further purification. The amino-acid composition of the acyl carrier protein has been determined and is remarkably similar to that reported for the spinach acyl carrier protein. The N-terminal amino-acid sequence of the first 48 residues of rape acyl carrier protein was determined. The sequence shows considerable homology to other plant acyl carrier proteins purified. This report represents the first amino-acid sequence data on a seed acyl carrier protein.
Superfamily of type-III polyketide synthases (PKSs) catalyze iterative claisen-like decarboxylative condensation of coenzyme-A (CoA)-linked thioesters in plants, microbes and fungi to biosynthesize structurally diverse polyketide scaffolds. PKSs in conjunction with fatty acid synthases (FASs) generate long-chain lipids essential for the survival of mycobacteria. PKS18 shows broad specificity for acyl-CoA substrates (C6-C20) to produce tri-and tetra-ketide alpha-pyrones [1]. Earlier, our crystal structure of PKS18 revealed a 20Å long substrate-binding tunnel formed due to a conformational switch by subtle changes in the dihedral (psi-torsion) angles. Further, we showed a tunnel-blocking mutant, C205F, which resulted in altered substrate specificity [2,3]. Unlike plant type-III PKSs, active-site architecture in Mtb-PKS18 is strikingly different. With the advent of genome sequencing, type-III PKSs are identified in several organisms, e.g., Streptomyces griseus for melanin production, Azotobacter vinelandii for cyst formation, Neurospora crassa for resorcinolic lipid biosynthesis, and Dictyostelium discoideum for DIF-1 precursor synthesis, etc. In an attempt to elucidate the enzymatic mechanism, we present here the first snapshot of Mtb type-III PKS in complex with CoA, where C175A active-site mutant of PKS18 is crystallized in the presence of palmitoyl-CoA. We solved the structure by molecular-replacement method and refined to a resolution of 2.05Å (Rwork= 19%, Rfree= 25%). Analysis shows a 16Å long CoA-binding pocket oriented away from the dimeric interface. The bent conformation of CoA at the pyrophosphate shields the phosphopantotheine from the surface water and the phosphates point towards the solvent. The phosphopantotheine arm is held in place through Van der Waals and hydrogen bonding interactions with the adenine ring. At the entrance of the tunnel, basic residues R68 (replaced by lysine in other type-III PKS) and R71 participate in electrostatic interactions with the phosphates, stabilizing the bent conformation of CoA molecule. Such interactions are conserved among plant type-III chalcone synthases. K318 of Mtb PKS18 is not conserved among type-III PKS enzymes, which interacts with the phosphate of CoA that also connects the ribose and the pantetheine arm, a unique interaction observed only in Mtb type-III PKSs. The plasticity of such long binding pockets for catalysis in these condensing enzymes is being investigated to understand metabolite diversity.
Cultures of Lactobacillus bulgaricus often fail to grow on media commonly used for lactic acid bacteria such as standard plate count agar. This is considered dus to deficiencies of some growth factors required by the organisms. To determine the factors deficient in these media, a survay of growth requirements of six cultures of L. bulgaricus in chemically defined media was done.All of six cultures required “tween 80” and enzymatic digest of casein for their growth. “Tween 80” could be replaced with “tween 40” plus oleic acid, lecithin or cephalin.Three cultures required pantethine in a medium containing 0.4γ/ml of calcium pantothenate. However, pantethine could be replaced with higher amounts (e.g., 1γ/ml) or calcium pantothenate. When cysteine level in a medium was reduced to 10γ/ml (one-tenth of usual synthetic media) and cystine was omitted, calcium pantothenate in a concentration of 2γ/ml failed to replace pantotheine. This suggests that “activity coefficient” pantethine/pantothenate is a function of cysteine level in a medium.One culture identified asThermobacterium jugurtOLRA-JENSEN did not grow in the absence of lactose even after prolonged incubation period.None required erotic acid or thymidine, and the latter seemed to be inhibitory to some cultures.
Cell-free extracts from the uropygial gland of goose catalyzed the incorporation of malonyl-CoA into normal fatty acids and methylmalonyl-CoA into multimethyl branched acids with NADPH as the preferred reductant (J. S. Buckner and P.E. Kolattukudy (1975), Biochemistry 14, 1771). Purification of fatty acid synthetase from this extract was accomplished in one step by gel filtration with Sepharose 4B. Homogeneity of the fatty acid synthetase was shown by analytical ultracentrifugation, immunodiffusion assays, polyacrylamide disc gel electrophoresis, and sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide disc gel electrophoresis. At a pH of 7.0, apparent Km values of 3.6 X 10(-5) M and 1.5 X 10(-5) M were calculated for malonyl-C0A and NADPH, respectively. The major products synthesized by the enzyme from malonyl-CoA and methylmalonyl-C0A were free hexadecanoic acid and free 2, 4, 6, 8-tetramethyldecanoic acid, respectively, with acetyl-CoA as primer. A molecular weight value of 547 000 was determined for the goose fatty acid synthetase by sedimentation equilibrium centrifugation. The purified enzyme had an s20,w of 13.5S and was partially dissociated in low-ionic strength buffer into a 9.3S species, and this dissociation was accompanied by a corresponding partial inactivation of the enzymatic activity. Reassociation and reactivation of the partially dissociated fatty acid synthetase were accomplished in either 0.2 M KCl or 200 muM NADPH. These properties of the goose enzyme are similar to those of other animal fatty acid synthetases, as was the amino acid composition. Dissociation of the purified enzyme with sodium dodecyl sulfate resulted in only two equal molecular weight polypeptides (269 000), as determined by sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide disc gel electrophoresis. Injection of labeled pantothenic acid into the uropygial gland resulted in the synthesis of labeled fatty acid synthetase in which the label appeared to be located exclusively in the 4'-phosphopantotheine moiety. Analysis of the labeled enzyme by gel filtration and polyacrylamide disc gel electrophoresis in the presence of sodium dodecyl sulfate showed that the labeled pantothenate was contained exclusively in the half molecular weight moiety. The enzyme contained one 4'-phosphopantetheine residue per subunit (269 000), as determined by measurement of the taurine generated by hydrolysis of performic acid-treated enzyme. Sodium dodecyl sulfate-activated proteolytic activity was shown to be associated with goose fatty acid synthetase, and this proteolysis was shown to result in the formation of small-molecular-weight protein fragments (less than 200 000) during treatment of the enzyme with sodium dodecyl sulfate. This proteolysis could be prevented by diisopropyl fluorophosphate and p-chloromercuribenzoate. These results strongly suggest that the goose uropygial gland fatty acid synthetase consists of two multifunctional polypeptide subunits, each containing one covalently linked 4'-phosphopantetheine.
Abstract Control of coenzyme A synthesis was studied in isolated, perfused rat hearts. Pantothenic acid (PA), coenzyme A, and intermediates in the the pathway were separated by high pressure liquid chromatography. The amount of 14C label in each of the metabolites was determined in tissue extracts when [14C]PA was supplied in the perfusate. The rate-controlling steps in the pathway were determined by measuring the net rate of [14C]PA flux through each of the reactions. The data indicated that the primary site of control in the pathway was the pantothenate kinase-catalyzed reaction, the first intracellular step in the conversion of PA to CoA. The rate of this reaction was inhibited by including glucose, pyruvate, fatty acids, or beta-hydroxybutyrate in the perfusate of isolated hearts. Pyruvate and beta-hydroxybutyrate caused a much greater inhibition than did glucose. Insulin was a strong inhibitor, but only in the presence of glucose. Insulin had no effect in hearts receiving either no substrate or palmitate as substrate. Collectively, these data indicated that an unknown tissue metabolite whose level changed with each of these substrates and insulin is a strong regulator of pantothenate kinase. Synthesis of CoA occurred in both the cytosolic and mitochondrial compartments. Accelerated mitochondrial CoA synthesis appeared to be dependent upon the production and accumulation of 4'-phosphopantotheine, which occurred only when pantothenate kinase was stimulated.
Abstract The complete amino acid sequence of the acyl carrier protein (ACP) from Escherichia coli has been established. It contains 77 residues with NH2-terminal serine and COOH-terminal alanine. The pantotheine prosthetic group of ACP is attached covalently to the hydroxyl group of serine at residue 36, which is 1 of 3 seryl residues in the molecule. This unique sequence was deduced by sequence analysis of the tryptic, peptic, and thermolysin peptides isolated from enzymic hydrolysates of ACP as described earlier. Important overlaps in sequence were also obtained by partial sequence analysis of one of the two unique peptides formed on cleavage of ACP with CNBr, and by sequence analysis of a single tryptic peptide isolated from tryptic digests of ACP modified at its single arginyl residue with 1,2-cyclohexanedione.
The possibility of the chromatographic separation of pantothenic acid derivatives — 4′-phosphopantothenate, pantethine, 4′-phosphopantetheine, dephospho-CoA and CoA — on a column of DEAE-cellulose (DE-11 or Servacel DEAE 23 SH) has been studied, with their detection by radiometric, enzymatic, or spectrophotometric methods. The affinity of pantothenic acid and that of pantotheine for the ion-exchange resins used are identical. The phosphorylated derivatives of these compounds, which are eluted at higher values of a concentration gradient of lithium chloride, also have identical chromatographic characteristics. The separation of dephospho-CoA and CoA is not achieved on the chromatographic system investigated, but the elution of the fractions to free them from the retained nucleotide-containing precursors of the coenzyme can be used effectively for analytical purposes.
This chapter talks about fatty acid biosynthesis, linked to the citric acid cycle (CAC) through the utilization of acetyl-coenzyme A (CoA) as its starting point. The oxidative decarboxylation of pyruvate is an important reaction in archaea, bacteria, and eukaryotes alike, generating acetyl-CoA necessary for CAC reactions, fatty acid biosynthesis, and many other reactions requiring acyl-CoA. Citrate synthase catalyzes the first step in the oxidative branch of the CAC in which acetyl-CoA and oxaloacetate are condensed to generate citrate and CoA. Aconitase activity has been detected in the cytosolic fraction of Helicobacter pylori cells both by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) and spectrophotometric assays. In Escherichia coli isocitrate dehydrogenase acts as a critical branch point between the CAC reactions and the glyoxylate bypass during growth on C2 compounds like acetate. The study of the lipid and fatty acid profiles of eight Helicobacter species has revealed some characteristic features of the Helicobacter genus. Malonyl-acylcarrier protein (ACP) is required not only for initiation of fatty acid biosynthesis, but also for each subsequent round of elongation of the fatty acid chain. To function in fatty acid biosynthesis, the apo-ACP protein must first be activated by transfer of the 4'-phospho-pantotheine from CoA, and this reaction is predicted to be catalyzed by holo-ACP synthase, encoded by acpS in H. pylori.
Pantothenate, a member of the vitamin B complex, is synthesized by microorganisms and plants but not by mammals which require it as a nutritional factor. The biosynthesis of pantothenic acid in Escherichia coli consists of two convergent pathways requiring four biosynthetic genes (13). The initial step of one branch is the formation of ketopantoate from ␣-ketoisovalerate, an intermediate of the valine biosynthetic pathway, catalyzed by the panB-encoded enzyme ketopantoate hydroxymethyltransferase. Subsequent reduction to pantoate requires the action of the panE gene product, ketopantoate reductase. In the second branch of the pathway ␤-alanine is formed by the ␣-decarboxylation of aspartate, catalyzed by the panD-encoded enzyme L-aspartate-␣-decarboxylase. Finally, the panC gene product pantothenate synthase performs the combining reaction of the two branches, the ATP-dependent condensation of pantoate and ␤-alanine to form pantothenate. In subsequent reactions, pantothenate is converted to the essential phosphopantotheine moiety, the acyl group carrier found in acyl carrier proteins and coenzyme A (36). These essential compounds participate in various reactions of intermediary metabolism (1).
The Drg-1 gene encodes a 43-kDa cytoplasmic protein that has several noticeable features, although the biochemical function of the protein is yet largely unknown. Amino acid sequence of the Drg-1 protein reveals three serine phosphorylation sites, five calmodulin kinase 2 phosphorylation sites, five myristoylation sites, three protein kinase C phosphorylation sites, one tyrosine phosphorylation site, one thioesterase site, and one phosphopantotheine attachment site. It has been shown that protein kinase A and calmodulin kinase 2 are indeed involved in the phosphorylation of this protein in vitro (7, 8) . At the COOH-terminal end of the Drg-1 protein, there are three tandem repeats of the amino acids G-T-R-S-R-S-F-T-H-T-S. Murray et al. showed recently that the COOH-terminal stretch of the Drg-1 protein serves as a substrate for phosphorylation by serum-and glucocorticoid-induced kinase 1, which then primes it for phosphorylation by glycogen synthase kinase 3 (9, 10) . However, the physiologic relevance of such phosphorylation remains largely unknown. In addition, based on potentiometric and spectroscopic studies, Zoroddu et al. (11) have proposed that this COOH-terminal stretch may be important for nickel binding. The amino acid sequence of Drg-1 also indicates the presence of a prominent h-hydrolase fold, although it may not be enzymatically functional (12) . Thus, the Drg-1 protein presents several interesting features; however, the biochemical function of this protein in the context of tumor metastasis suppression remains to be elucidated.
Phosphotransferases (kinases) use ATP as the universal phosphoryl donor whereas sulfotransferases use PAPS as the universal sulfuryl donor. Once phosphoryl group is transferred to a recipient molecule, it receives total of two negative charges changing its physicochemical properties. Similarly, upon sulfuryl transfer the recipient molecule receives one negative charge from the sulfonate group. Aside from this difference are there any other advantages of choosing an additional element in the biological systems? It appears that the phosphoryl transfer reactions take place during cell cycle/signaling and in primary metabolism. Whereas, sulfuryl transfer reaction happens mainly to the secondary metabolites/protein transformations? In this paper, I have compared the overall biochemical aspects of phosphate/ sulfate metabolic activation and the variety of phosphate/sulfate based cofactors. ATP, CoA, PAPS, NADP+, NAD+, FAD+ and SAM, all share the presence of adenosyl moiety. ATP, SAM and FAD+ contain only 5’ phosphate. CoA and PAPS in addition to 5’ phosphate have 3’ phosphate. CoA has the terminal pantotheine sulfur in the reduced thiol form whereas PAPS contain sulfate (the most oxidized form of sulfur). SAM has sulfur in cationic form that is attached to adenosyl group. NADP+ has 2’ phosphate in addition to the unique 5’-5’ linked phosphates. Thus, the nucleotide cofactor varieties from sulfur and phosphates are intriguing and add interesting evolutionary combinations to the biological systems.
Abstract The rate of turnover of rat liver fatty acid synthetase has been measured in animals tested under steady state conditions. The value obtained for the half-life varied from 71 to 108 hours. The exchange rate of the covalently bound prosthetic group, 4'-phosphopantotheine, with unbound pantothenate compounds was found to be more than an order of magnitude greater than the half-life of the enzyme complex. A model is proposed in which the prosthetic group, or some small portion of the enzyme complex containing the prosthetic group, is periodically removed from and replaced on the larger fatty acid synthetase moiety, such action taking place many times before an individual complex is catabolized. Moreover, this exchange is not part of the catalytic function of an enzyme complex, but may be a means of control of over all fatty acid synthetase activity.
Background: Understanding the diversity of interactions between RNA aptamers and nucleotide cofactors promises both to facilitate the design of new RNA enzymes that utilize these cofactors and to constrain models of RNA World evolution. In previous work, we isolated six pools of high affinity RNA aptamers to coenzyme A (CoA), the principle cofactor in biological acyltransfer reactions. Interpretation of the evolutionary significance of those results was made difficult by the fact that the affinity resin attachment strongly influenced the outcome of those selections. Here we describe the selection of four new pools isolated on a disulfide-linked CoA affinity matrix to minimize context-dependent recognition imposed by the attachment to the solid support. Results: The four new aptamer libraries show no sequence or structural relation to a previously dominant CoA-binding species, even though they were isolated from the same initial random libraries. Recognition appears to be limited to the adenosine portion of the CoA – in particular the Hoogsteen edge – for most isolates surveyed, even when a counter selection was employed to remove such RNAs. Two of the recovered isolates are eluted with intact CoA more efficiently than with AMP alone suggesting a possible pantotheine interaction. However, a detailed examination of recognition specificity revealed that the 3' phosphate of CoA, and not the pantotheine arm, determined recognition by these two isolates. Conclusion: Most aptamers that have been targeted towards cofactors containing adenosine recognize only the adenosine portion of the cofactor. They do not distinguish substituents on the 5' carbon, even when those substituents have offered hydrogen bonding opportunities and the selection conditions discouraged adenosine recognition. Beyond hydrogen bonding, additional factors that guide the selection towards adenosine recognition include aromatic stacking interactions and relatively few rotational degrees of freedom. In the present work, a sterically accessible, disulfide-linked CoA affinity resin afforded the selection of a more diverse aptamer collection then previous work with a N6 linked CoA resin.
