A new series of transition metal complexes of Cu(II), Ni(II), Co(II), Mn(II), Zn(II), VO(IV), Hg(II) and Cd(II) have been synthesized from the Schiff base (L) derived from 4-aminoantipyrine, 3-hydroxy-4-nitrobenzaldehyde and o-phenylenediamine. Structural features were obtained from their elemental analyses, magnetic susceptibility, molar conductance, mass, IR, UV-Vis, 1H NMR and ESR spectral studies. The data show that these complexes have composition of ML type. The UV-Vis, magnetic susceptibility and ESR spectral data of the complexes suggest a square-planar geometry around the central metal ion except VO(IV) complex which has square-pyramidal geometry. The redox behaviour of copper and vanadyl complexes was studied by cyclic voltammetry. Antimicrobial screening tests gave good results in the presence of metal ion in the ligand system. The nuclease activity of the above metal complexes shows that Cu, Ni and Co complexes cleave DNA through redox chemistry whereas other complexes are not effective.
Abstract Accessibility of the nucleophilic site in organocatalysts is essential to ensure adequate catalytic activity. Gas-phase trimethylborane (TMB) Lewis basicity and Bronsted proton basicity of several amine based organocatalysts have been calculated using the CBS-QB3 model chemistry. This TMB basicity scale can, as opposed to the proton basicity scale, account for steric effects encountered in the initial nucleophilic attack of the nitrogen free electron pair on a substrate. Since such a step is the first one in several amine catalyzed reactions, severe steric hindrance of the nucleophilic center would render the catalyst ineffective. Comparing the TMB basicity and proton basicity with the experimentally observed catalytic activity of both homogeneous and heterogeneously supported amine sites found in literature for the aldol reaction of acetone with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde showed that, due to the inclusion of these steric effects, the TMB basicity scale is a much better predictor of catalytic activity than the proton basicity. According to this computational Lewis basicity scale, potential steric hindrance in alternative nitrogen containing active sites was probed. This resulted in 3-propylpyrrolidine being proposed among the most promising monofunctional amine groups and 1-(methylamino)propan-2-ol among the most promising bifunctional amine-hydroxyl groups for heterogeneous aldol reaction catalysts.
Abstract Chloramphenicol (CAP) is a micropollutant that resists to conventional residual water treatment. Therefore, the aim of this study was to assess CAP biodegradability by five endophytic fungi strains isolated from Bertholletia excelsa collected in the Brazilian Amazonia. The fungi strains were screened in solid and liquid medium, and then experimental design was performed to optimize culture conditions. In addition, an environmental toxicology assessment was carried out using the algae Chlorella vulgaris. Results from fungi cultures in solid medium demonstrated that CAP affected the strains growth and interfered in the development of conidia and spores. The biodegradation in liquid culture medium showed that all strains increased the degradation of this antibiotic. The most efficient strain Trichoderma sp. (BIORG 7) was subjected to an experimental design (Box-behnken) consisted of 15 experiments, having as variables: pH, time, and CAP concentration, and reaching 30% biodegradation determined by HPLC-UV analyses (24 h, pH 7.0 and 150 mg L−1). The main metabolite 4-nitrobenzaldehyde was identified by GC-MS analyses and presented a higher ecotoxicity to green algae than CAP.
Abstract An enzyme with 6-pyruvoyl tetrahydropterin (6PPH4) (2'-oxo)reductase activity was purified to near homogeneity from whole rat brains by a rapid method involving affinity chromatography on Cibacron blue F3Ga-agarose followed by high performance ion exchange chromatography and high performance gel filtration. The enzyme has a single subunit of Mr 37,000 and has a similar amino acid composition to previously described aldoketo reductases. The reductase activity is absolutely dependent on NADPH, will only catalyze the reduction of the C-2'-oxo group of 6PPH4, and is inactive towards the C-1'-oxo group. However, the enzyme also shows high activity towards nonspecific substrates, such as 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, phenanthrenequinone, and menadione. The role of this 6PPH4 reductase in the formation of tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) was investigated. Measurements were made of the rate of conversion of 6PPH4, generated from dihydroneopterin triphosphate with purified 6PPH4 synthase, to BH4 in the presence of mixtures of pure sepiapterin reductase and the 6PPH4 (2'-oxo)reductase purified from rat brains. The results suggest that when sepiapterin reductase activity is limiting, a large proportion of BH4 synthesis proceeds through the 6-lactoyl intermediate. However, when sepiapterin reductase is not limiting, most of the BH4 is probably formed via reduction of the other mono-reduced intermediate which is produced from 6PPH4 by sepiapterin reductase alone.
Abstract Four new primary aminonaphthols ( 4 , 5 , 9 and 10 ) were synthesized from 1- or 2-naphthol and 1- or 2-naphthaldehyde via naphthoxazines in modified Mannich condensations. Simple ring-closure reactions of these aminonaphthols with paraformaldehyde, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, phosgene or 4-chlorophenyl isothiocyanate led to new heterocyclic derivatives. In these transformations, either an sp 2 or an sp 3 carbon was inserted between the hydroxy and amino groups. The effects of substituents and the naphthyl ring on the conformation were investigated by means of NMR measurements, employing both dipolar and scalar couplings. The structures were confirmed by DFT quantum chemical calculations involving computed coupling constants, intramolecular distances between nuclei and the relative energies of the preferred conformers.
An l-proline-derived low molecular weight gelator forms gels in nitromethane and nitroethane and acts as a basic catalyst for the Henry nitroaldol reaction of these solvents with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and 4-chlorobenzaldehyde. The reported catalyst is efficient only upon aggregation into self-assembled fibrillar networks. The formation of the gels is associated to a basicity boost of the l-proline residues. Gel dissociation blocks the catalytic efficiency for the nitroaldol reaction but enhances a reaction pathway leading to alkenes. Because of the reversible nature of supramolecular gels, subtle temperature changes allow for a reversible sol−gel transition associated to an activation of the catalyst. The catalytic gel from nitroethane is significantly more active than the one from nitromethane probably because of its different structure as revealed by X-ray diffraction and thermal stability studies. The results shown indicate that in solution the l-proline moiety catalyzes the reaction of nitroalkanes with...
In aqueous solution, ozone reacts with 4-methoxycinnamate, cinnamate and 4-nitrocinnamate with rate constants of 6.8 × 105, 3.8 × 105 and 1.2 × 105 dm3 mol−1 s−1, respectively. The corresponding acids react somewhat more slowly. In product studies, material balance with respect to ozone consumption has been obtained. In the case of cinnamic acid and its 4-methoxy derivative, glyoxylic acid, H2O2 and the corresponding benzaldehydes are formed. In contrast, 4-nitrocinnamic acid affords, besides a full yield of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, 70% glyoxylic acid and 30% formic acid, while the H2O2 yield is also reduced to 70%. These results can be explained if in the latter case the Criegee intermediate decomposes not only into glyoxylic acid and 1-hydroperoxy-1-phenylmethanol (which rapidly releases H2O2 ::: yielding 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, k > 0.5 s−1), but also, to an extent of 30%, into 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and 2-hydroperoxy-2-hydroxyacetic acid. This product has been produced independently by ozonating fumaric acid and has been shown to decompose rapidly (k > 1 s−1) into formic acid and CO2. The reaction of H2O2 with the free carbonyl form of glyoxylic acid, present at 1.8% in equilibrium with its hydrate, is comparatively slow (k = 0.3 dm3 mol−1 s−1, based on total glyoxylic acid concentration). The reaction of the stronger nucleophile HO2−, present in basic solutions, is considerably faster (k = 1700 dm3 mol−1 s−1). Thus, in the cinnamate system, the substituents markedly influence the fate of the ::: Criegee intermediate, although they have only a small influence on the rate of the ozone reaction.
Abstract The solubility of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde in mixed solvents of ( N , N -dimethylformamide + ethanol), ( N , N -dimethylformamide + n -propanol) and ( N , N -dimethylformamide + n -butanol) were determined experimentally by using the isothermal dissolution method within the temperatures ranging from (273.15 to 313.15) K under atmosphere pressure (101.2 kPa). The solubility of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde increased with increasing temperature and mass fraction of N , N -dimethylformamide for the binary systems of ( N , N -dimethylformamide + ethanol), ( N , N -dimethylformamide + n -propanol) and ( N , N -dimethylformamide + n -butanol). At the same temperature and mass fraction of N , N -dimethylformamide, the mole fraction solubility of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde in ethanol was greater than those in the other two systems. The obtained solubility data were correlated by employing CNIBS/R-K model, Jouyban–Acree model, van't Hoff–Jouyban–Acree model, modified Apelblat–Jouyban–Acree and Sun model. The largest values of relative average deviation ( RAD ) and root-mean-square deviation ( RMSD ) between the experimental and calculated solubility were 0.92 × 10 − 2 and 6.22 × 10 − 4 , respectively, which were obtained with Jouyban–Acree model for the system of N , N -dimethylformamide + n -propanol. On the whole, the CNIBS/R-K model was proven to provide better representation of the experimental solubility data. Based on the measured solubility, the dissolution enthalpies of the dissolution process were computed. Dissolution process of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde in these mixed solvents was endothermic. The experimental solubility and solubility models could be helpful in purifying 4-nitrobenzaldehyde from its isomeric mixtures.
The reactivity of an azanonaborane cluster containing free amino groups {H2N(CH2)4H2NB8H11NH(CH2)4NH2} towards ketones and aldehydes is investigated. In a one step reaction, the reductive amination of some ketones and aldehydes (namely acetone, benzaldehyde, 3-hydroxybenzaldehyde, 4-hydroxybenzaldehyde, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, 4-acetoxybenzaldehyde, and 4-acetamidobenzaldehyde) with an azanonaborane cluster in the presence of H3BNH2(CH2)4NH2 gives monoalkylamino derivatives of the azanonaborane cluster {RHN(CH2)4H2NB8H11NH(CH2)4NHR} where (R =(Me)2CH-, C6H5CH2-, 3-OHC6H4CH2-, 4-OHC6H4CH2-, 4-NO2C6H4CH2-, 4-MeOCOC6H4CH2-, or 4-NH2COC6H4CH2-). The functionalized derivatives of the {B8N} cluster can be used in boron neutron capture therapy for tumors (BNCT). Similarly, the reductive amination of 5-(4"-formylphenyl)-10,15,20-triphenylporphyrin with the {B8N} cluster gave a porphyrin bearing azanonaborane cluster, while a porphyrin dimer linked by an azanonaborane moiety was obtained following the same method, starting with a 2:1 molar ratio of porphyrin:{B8N} cluster. 5,10,15,20-Tetraformylphenylporphyrin gave the chance to increase the percentage of boron in the resulting boronated porphyrin, which is considered an important factor for a BNCT delivery agent. With these compounds, the cell toxicity using V79 cells was carried out to determine whether these compounds would have favorable biological properties.
Nitro-functionalized polypyrrole films have been deposited on gold surfaces by copolymerization with pyrrole or by derivatization of the polymer. Electrochemical copolymerization of 2- and 4-nitrostyrenes or 2- and 4-nitrobenzaldehydes with pyrrole indicates that lower polymerization yields result from the 2-nitro aromatics due to steric factors
Most enzymatic transformations have a synthetic counterpart. Often though, the mechanisms by which natural and synthetic catalysts operate differ markedly. The catalytic asymmetric aldol reaction as a fundamental C-C bond forming reaction in chemistry and biology is an interesting case in this respect. Chemically, this reaction is dominated by approaches that utilize preformed enolate equivalents in combination with a chiral catalyst.1 Typically, a metal is involved in the reaction mechanism.1d Most enzymes, however, use a fundamentally different strategy and catalyze the direct aldolization of two unmodified carbonyl compounds. Class I aldolases utilize an enamine based mechanism,2 while Class II aldolases mediate this process by using a zinc cofactor.3 The development of aldolase antibodies that use an enamine mechanism and accept hydrophobic organic substrates has demonstrated the potential inherent in amine-catalyzed asymmetric aldol reactions.4 Recently, the first small-molecule asymmetric class II aldolase mimics have been described in the form of zinc, lanthanum, and barium complexes.5,6 However, amine-based asymmetric class I aldolase mimics have not been described in the literature.7 Here we report our finding that the amino acid proline is an effective asymmetric catalyst for the direct aldol reaction between unmodified acetone and a variety of aldehydes. Recently we developed broad scope aldolase antibodies that show very high enantioselectivities, have enzymatic rate accelerations, and use the enamine mechanism of class I aldolases.4 During the course of these studies, we found that one of our aldolase catalytic antibodies (Aldolase Antibody 38C2, Aldrich) is an efficient catalyst for enantiogroup-differentiating aldol cyclodehydrations of 2,6-heptanediones to give cyclohexenones, including the Wieland-Miescher ketone.8,9 These intramolecular reactions are also catalyzed by proline (Hajos-Eder-Sauer-Wiechert reaction)10 and it has been postulated that they proceed via an enamine mechanism.11 However, the proline-catalyzed direct intermolecular asymmetric aldol reaction has not been described. Further, there are no asymmetric small-molecule aldol catalysts that use an enamine mechanism.7 Based on our own results and Shibasaki’s work on lanthanum-based small-molecule aldol catalysts,4,6 we realized the great potential of catalysts for the direct asymmetric aldol reaction. We initially studied the reaction of acetone with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde. Reacting proline (30 mol %) in DMSO/acetone (4:1) with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde at room temperature for 4 h furnished aldol product (R)-1 in 68% yield and 76% ee (eq 1). This result
The beta-subunits of the voltage-gated potassium (Kv) channels modulate the kinetics and the gating of Kv channels and assists in channel trafficking and membrane localization. These proteins are members of the AKR6 family. They share a common (alpha/beta)(8) barrel structural fold and avidly bind pyridine nucleotides. Low catalytic activity has been reported for these proteins. Kinetic studies with rat Kvbeta2 revealed that the chemical step is largely responsible for the rate-limitation but nucleotide exchange could also contribute to the overall rate. Herein we report our investigations on the kinetics of cofactor exchange using nucleotide-free preparations of Kvbeta2. Kinetic traces measuring quenching of Kvbeta2 fluorescence by NADP(+) were consistent with a two-step binding mechanism which includes rapid formation of a loose enzyme:cofactor complex followed by a slow conformational rearrangement to form a tight final complex. Closing of the nucleotide enfolding loop, which in the crystal structure folds over the bound cofactor, provides the structural basis for this rearrangement. The rate of the loop opening required to release the cofactor is similar for NADPH and NADP(+) (0.9 min(-1)) and is of the same order of magnitude as the rate of the chemical step estimated previously from kinetic studies with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (0.3-0.8 min(-1), [S.M. Tipparaju, O.A. Barski, S. Srivastava, A. Bhatnagar, Catalytic mechanism and substrate specificity of the beta-subunit of the voltage-gated potassium channel, Biochemistry 47 (2008) 8840-8854]). Binding of NADPH is accompanied by a second conformational change that might be responsible for a 4-fold higher affinity observed with the reduced cofactor and the resulting difficulty in removing bound NADPH from the protein. These data provide evidence that nucleotide exchange occurs on a seconds-to-minutes time scale and set the upper limit for the maximal possible rate of catalysis by Kvbeta2. Slow cofactor exchange is consistent with the role of the beta-subunit as a metabolic sensor implicated in tonic regulation of potassium currents.
The title compound was prepared by the following procedure: To 1 ml of 1-butyl-3-methylimidazolium tetrafluoroborate ([bmim][BF 4 ]) were added 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (1 mmol), malononitrile (1 mmol) and 5-amino-3-methyl-1-phenylpyrazole
Various organocatalysts are successfully heterogenised to robust inorganic frameworks, such as mesoporous silicas, by following a developed methodology of covalent tethering. The structural integrity of the organocatalyst, the nature of the active-sites and verifying the covalent anchoring were characterised through spectroscopic and physical measurements. The benefits of a heterogeneous system were exemplified through recovery and recycle experiments as well as directly measuring improvements in activity and selectivity in catalytic reactions. The immobilisation technique was applied to covalently graft the amino acid lysine through the side chain functionality and the consequent heterogeneous systems were catalytically tested in the aldol reaction between acetone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde. Lysine functionalised silicas offered improved activity and chemoselectivity than that of the homogeneous system due to the immobilisation method creating well-defined, isolated sites. Maximising this isolated nature was achieved through increasing the spatial resolution of sites by solid-phase deprotection and governing the degree of catalytic loading on the mesoporous support. A similar methodology of immobilisation was applied to naturally occurring cinchona alkaloids (cinchonidine, cinchonine, quinidine and quinine) through the radical initiated formation of C-S bonds that covalently link the alkaloid to the surface of the silica support. All heterogeneous alkaloids were proven to be active catalysts in the Michael reaction of ethyl-2-oxocyclopentanecarboxylate (1,3 dicarbonyl) with N-benzylmaleimide, exhibiting the impressive stereoselectivities that are achieved in the homogeneous state. Furthermore, under solvent-free conditions the reaction could be completed within 2 hours with no detrimental effect on stereoselectivity. It was established in the heterogeneous organocatalytic systems that minimising spatial constraints, having a precise balance of substrate-catalyst-pore wall interactions and the polar, hydrophilic character of the mesoporous silica surface provides a favourable environment for facilitating asymmetric organocatalytic transformations. The versatility of organo-functionalised mesoporous silicas can be extended to hosts for coordinating transition-metals that create amino-acid complexes, which can functionally mimic the active site in metalloenzymes. This was achieved by covalently heterogenising Cu2+-valine and Fe3+-proline complexes onto inorganic (mesoporous silica) and organic (polystyrene) supports which acted as highly selective catalysts in the oxidation of benzyl alcohol, dimethyl sulfide and cyclohexene using benign oxidants such as O2 from air. The covalent strategies offer a more stable, well-defined active site, which is demonstrated through improved catalytic turnovers of the covalent analogues in the various oxidation reactions. Through controlling the degree of catalytic loading the creation of a more isolated single-site nature of the bio-derived complexes can be achieved which increases catalytic efficiency. Correlating the different catalyst environments upon immobilisation onto varying supports while concurrently measuring the catalytic activity, leads to the development of structure-property relationships for support optimisation.
The fluorescence spectra of 3,4,9,10-tetramethylperylene(TMP)has been studied by means of steady-state and transient fluorescence measurements and compared withthat of perylene(PE).The fluorescence of TMP and PE can be quenched by nitromethane,nitrobenzene and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde,and the quanching efficiency wais increased withthe increase of the electro-withdrawing ability of the quanchers.The derivation of F-o/Ffrom Stern-volmer equation was explained in terms of active sphere and the quanchingmechanism has been discussed, From the excitation spectrum,the charge transfer complexbrmed between TMP and tetrabutylammonium hexafluoroarsonate in electrochemical cellhas been detected.
Eleven strains of Pseudomonas were isolated by selective enrichment on 4-nitrotoluene (4NT). They all utilized 4NT, 4-nitrobenzyl alcohol (4NBA) or 4-nitrobenzoate (4NBZate) as sole sources of carbon and nitrogen. One strain, TW3, was used for more detailed studies. 4NT-grown cells of TW3 take up O2 when incubated in the presence of 4NBA, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (4NBZ) and 4NBZate. HPLC analysis of culture supernatants showed that 4NBZ and 4NBZate were formed when 4NT-grown cells wer incubated with 4NBA, whereas only 4NBZate was found when they were incubated with 4NBZ. Two dehydrogenases were detected in extracts of 4NT-grown cells. 4NBA dehydrogenase could be assayed by a dye-linked assay whereas 4NBZ dehydrogenase activity was linked to NAD+ reduction. No nitrite was detected in supernatants of 4NBZate-grown cells incubated with 4NBZate but the nitrogen appeared as ammonium. The only aromatic ring-cleavage dioxygenase that was induced during growth on the nitroaromatics was protocatechuate 3,4-dioxygenase. It is proposed that the pathway for 4NT catabolism proceeds via 4NBA, 4NBZ and 4NBZate and ultimately to protocatechuate with release of the nitro group as ammonium.
Abstract Synthesis of 4-nitro-α-bromo-α,α-difluorotoluene was accomplished in two steps starting from 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, with a 30% overall yield. Radiolabeling of 4-nitro-α-bromo-α,α-difluorotoluene with no-carrier-added [ 18 F]fluoride provided 4-nitro-α,α-difluoro-α-[ 18 F]fluorotoluene in 2–4% yields with a specific activity of 2590 GBq/mmol (70 Ci/mmol). The effect of the reaction temperature on the radiochemical yield and specific activity of the radiolabeling reaction was studied. Radiochemical yields increased, whereas specific activity decreased, with increasing temperature. Radiosynthesis of [ 18 F]fluoxetine involved coupling of 4-nitro-α,α-difluoro-α-[ 18 F]fluorotoluene with the sodium alkoxide of ( S )-3-(methylamino)-1-phenyl-1-propanol. The overall yield of HPLC purified [ 18 F]fluoxetine was 1–2% (decay-corrected; total radiosynthesis time, 150–180 min). The specific activity of the product was 1480 GBq/mmol (40 Ci/mmol).
A new class of tripodal N-ligands have been prepared under mild conditions by reaction of N-hydroxymethyl-3,5-dimethylpyrazole with 2-furylmethylamine; 2-pyridylmethylamine; 4-nitrobenzaldehyde hydrazone and (E)-1-((anthracen-9-yl)methylene)hydrazine in a double equimolar ratio (2:1). The tripodal ligands were characterized by IR, H-, and C-NMR, microanalysis, and mass spectrometry. The fluorescence properties of the ligands were analyzed.
A new series of β-ketoanilides, in which the keto group attached to an olefinic linkage, have been synthesized by the reaction of acetoacetanilide with p-substituted benzaldehydes (4-methoxybenzaldehyde, 4-ethoxybenzaldehyde, 4-dimethylaminobenzaldehyde and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde) under specified conditions. The existence of these β-ketoanilides predominantly in the intramolecularly hydrogen bonded enol forms has been well demonstrated from their IR, 1H NMR and mass spectral data. Details on the formation of [ML2] complexes of these compounds with Ni(II), Cu(II) and Zn(II) and their nature of bonding were discussed on the basis of analytical, IR, 1H NMR and mass spectral data.
The metabolism of aldehydes and ketones in yeast is important for biosynthetic, catabolic and detoxication processes. Aldo-keto reductases are a family of enzymes that are able to reduce aldehydes and ketones. The roles of individual aldo-keto reductases in yeast has been difficult to determine because of overlapping substrate specificities of these enzymes. In this study, we have cloned, expressed and characterized the aldo-keto reductase Ypr1p from the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae and we describe its substrate specificity. The enzyme displays high specific activity towards 2-methylbutyraldehyde, as well as other aldehydes such as hexanal. It exhibits extremely low activity as a glycerol dehydrogenase. The enzyme functions over a wide pH range and uses NADPH as co-factor. In comparison to other mammalian and yeast aldo-keto reductases, Ypr1p has relatively high affinity for D,L-glyceraldehyde (1.08 mM) and hexanal (0.39 mM), but relatively low affinity for 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (1.07 mM). It displays higher specific activity for 2-methylbutyraldehyde than does yeast alcohol dehydrogenase and has a K(m) for 2-methyl butyraldehyde of 1.09 mM. The enzyme is expressed during growth on glucose, but its levels are rapidly induced by osmotic and oxidative stress. Yeast in which the YPR1 gene has been deleted possess 50% lower 2-methylbutyraldehyde reductase activity than the wild-type strain. This suggests that the enzyme may contribute to 2-methyl butyraldehyde reduction in vivo. It may therefore play a role in isoleucine catabolism and fusel alcohol formation and may influence flavour formation by strains of brewing yeast.
The oxidation of a rhodium(I) complex containing a ferrocene-based heterodifunctional phosphine N-heterocyclic carbene (NHC) ligand produces a stable, planar chiral rhodium(III) complex with an unexpected C-H activation on ferrocene. The oxidation of rhodium(I) to rhodium(III) may be accomplished by initial oxidation of ferrocene to ferrocenium and subsequent electron transfer from rhodium to ferrocenium. Preliminary catalytic tests showed that the rhodium(III) complex is active for the Grignard-type arylation of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde via C-H activation of 2-phenylpyridine.
A two-necked 25 ml round-bottom flask was oven-dried, cooled under N 2 , and charged with a stir bar. 3-or 4-Nitrobenzaldehyde (0.907 g, 6 mmol), aniline (0.571 g, 6 mmol), and [1-(sulfanylmethyl)cyclopropyl] acetic acid (0.877 g, 6 mmol) were added. Pyridine (1.95 ml, 24 mmol) was added. Finally, 2,4,6-tripropyl-1,3,5,2,4,6-trioxatriphosphorinane-2,4,6-trioxide (T3P) in 2-methyltetrahydrofuran (50 weight %; 7.3 ml, 12 mmol) was added. The reaction was stirred at room temperature and followed by TLC. The mixture was poured into a separatory funnel with dichloromethane and distilled water. The layers were separated and the aqueous layer was then extracted twice with dichloromethane. The organic fractions were combined and washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate and saturated sodium chloride and then dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under vacuum. Further purification was carried out as indicated below for each compound. 6-(3-Nitrophenyl)-7-phenyl-5-thia-7-azaspiro[2.6]nonan-8-one (1): Chromatography on 30 g flash silica gel with mixtures of ethyl acetate and hexanes gave a solid. Recrystallization from 2-propanol solution gave crystals (0.5192 g, 26%), m.p. 457-458 K. X-ray-quality crystals were grown by slow evaporation from a 2-propanol solution.
Eleven strains of Pseudomonas were isolated by selective enrichment on 4-nitrotoluene (4NT). They all utilized 4NT, 4-nitrobenzyl alcohol (4NBA) or 4-nitrobenzoate (4NBZate) as sole sources of carbon and nitrogen, One strain, TW3, was used for more detailed studies. 4NT-grown cells of TW3 take up 0, when incubated in the presence of 4NBA, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (4NBZ) and 4NBZate. HPLC analysis of culture supernatants showed that 4NBZ and 4NBZate were formed when 4NT-grown cells were incubated with 4NBA, whereas only 4NBZate was found when they were incubated with 4NBZ. Two dehydrogenases were detected in extracts of 4NT-grown cells. 4NBA dehydrogenase could be assayed by a dye-linked assay whereas 4NBZ dehydrogenase activity was linked to NAD+ reduction. No nitrite was detected in supernatants of 4NBZate-grown cells incubated with 4NBZate but the nitrogen appeared as ammonium. The only aromatic ring-cleavage dioxygenase that was induced during growth on the nitroaromatics was protocatechuate 3,4-dioxygenase. It is proposed that the pathway for 4NT catabolism proceeds via 4NBA, 4NBZ and 4NBZate and ultimately to protocatechuate with release of the nitro group as ammonium.
Abbreviations: 4NBA, 4-nitrobenzyl alcohol ; 4NBZ, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde; 4NBZate, 4-nitrobenzoate; 4NT, group is sequentially oxidized to an alcohol, aldehyde and carboxylic acid.
The Cytochrome P450 family is a class of enzymes responsible for the breakdown of about 75% of the drugs that are administered (18). The 2E1 isoform of this family is known as the "ethanol-inducible" member, because ethanol has demonstrated the capacity to affect the metabolism of other 2E1 substrates (15, 16). It has been proposed that elevated concentrations of ethanol in the liver are responsible for the activation of acetaminophen and nitrosamine constituents found in cigarette smoke into hepatotoxic byproducts, and that an increase in polarity in a very hydrophobic active site may have a significant role in perpetuating these toxic effects (2-3, 23). In the present study, the objective was to probe the influence of ethanol and subsequently, increased active site polarity, on the catalytic scheme of other P4502E1 substrates. Additionally, due to the fact that many other P450 isoforms contain hydrophobic active sites and therefore, may also be affected by changing polarity in the active site environment, the implications of these studies were evaluated in the context of the P450 family as a whole. Potential evidence regarding the existence of an effector site adjacent to the catalytic site, and its role in 2E1 catalysis, was also probed. Designed to examine the effect of ethanol on the previously observed substrate inhibition pattern in p-nitrophenol oxidation, results from current studies indicated that ethanol potentially disrupts ligand-ligand interactions between the catalytic and effector sites. The ability of ethanol to potentially alter rate-limiting steps in 2E1-mediated benzyl alcohol oxidation was explored through intrinsic isotope effect studies. Despite being limited by the purity of the benzyl alcohol substrate, an apparent shift or "unmasking" of the isotope effect was observed when ethanol was added. Finally, reversibility studies were carried out to evaluate the capacity of ethanol to interfere with 2E1 inactivation by 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, a potent irreversible inhibitor of the 2B4 isoform (7). When ethanol was present in low concentrations, a synergistic effect was exhibited, where the activity of 2E1 was reduced to an even greater degree than reactions containing the aldehyde alone. An increase in enzyme activity was observed in reactions containing the aldehyde and higher concentrations of ethanol, relative to those containing only the aldehyde, suggesting that ethanol exerted a pseudo-protective effective in this case.
1-(4-Methylphenyl)-2-(4-aminophenyl)ethylene is one of the important intermediates for preparing hole transport materials of styryl triarylamines.In this paper,the objective compound was synthesized through the reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with the Wittig reagent prepared from 4-methylbenzyl chloride and triphenylphosphine and reduction of the resulting 1-(4-methylphenyl)-2-(4-nitrophenyl)ethylene.The influencing factors of reduction were studied and the optimum reaction conditions were obtained.Thus, the reaction was carried out at 95～100 ℃ for 7 h with n (Fe)/ n (nitro-compound)=5 and the nitro-compound of 0 .27 mol/L to get the highest yield of 78 .6%.
Tyrphostins comprise a class of synthetic protein tyrosine kinase (PTK) inhibitors structurally derived from tyrosine and aimed at the specific prevention of substrate phosphorylation. The tyrphostin AG126 revealed anti-inflammatory properties in numerous animal disease models, including septic shock induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) of gram-negative bacteria and bacterial meningitis induced by gram-positive cell walls. We now show beneficial effects in another CNS complication, in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) as a model of multiple sclerosis, where AG126 treatment ameliorated clinical signs and myelin damage. At a cellular level, AG126 affected several functions of microglia, the CNS macrophages, as triggered by the activation of Toll-like receptors (TLR s). These innate immune receptors can sense microbial structures as well as factors generated by tissue injuries. For the first time, the present work addressed molecular targets and mechanisms of AG126 action, with a focus on microglia. AG126 interfered in particular with gene inductions depending on the adapter protein MyD88, one of the two TLR signaling pathways. Bruton s tyrosine kinase (BTK), a MyD88-associated PTK, was found to be inhibited in molecular and cell-based assays. Yet its inhibition could not explain the full spectrum of AG126 effects and, thus, alternative mechanisms which are even PTK-independent were considered based on structural relatedness and functional similarity to tyrosine-derived and/or microglia-active molecules. Such alternative mechanisms included principles based on antioxidants, adrenergic agonists, glucocorticoids or uncouplers of oxidative phosphorylation. It was found that AG126 undergoes degradation and that 3-hydroxy-4-nitrobenzaldehyde (BZ) and malononitrile (MN) are major breakdown products. MN was then demonstrated to mimic the microglia activity of AG126 and the similar behavior of other tyrphostins containing the essential structural motif, while BZ could not. Animal experiments finally showed tha t only AG126 as the parent structure, but not MN or BZ, could deliver the full protective action in EAE. Taken together, an ultimate identification of the AG126/MN-affected target may reveal a potent mechanism for developing anti-neuroinflammatory drugs.
The self-assembly of L-proline functional thermoresponsive double hydrophlic block copolymers (DHBCs) can effectively catalyze aldol reaction in water. Considering the block content of copolymers influences the assemblies and catalytic activities, thermoresponsive DHBCs supported L-proline P(NIPAm-co-ProlA)-b-POEGA with different POEGA block content were prepared by reversible addition fragmentation chain transfer (RAFT) polymerization. The therm-triggered self-assemblies were investigated by dynamic light scattering (DLS) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Then, the resultant assemblies were used as catalysts for the aldol reaction with cyclohexanone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde as substrates. The results indicated that P(NIPAm-co-ProlA)-b-POEGA with ca. 18 mol% of POEGA can form stable catalytic system, which maintained high selectivity and productivity of product, accompanied with satisfactory reusability.
We report herein a convenient route to the synthesis of aryl-substituted γ-lactones bearing an α-phosphorus ylide moiety through the assembly of dimethyl acetylenedicarboxylate (DMAD), electron-deficient aldehydes, and triaryl- or trialkylphosphanes in moderate to good yields. The formation of γ-lactones is highly dependent on the reaction time, the phosphane nucleophile, and the molar ratio of DMAD, aldehyde, and phosphane. We found that reactions with a DMAD/aldehyde/tri-p-tolylphosphane molar ratio of 3:1:6 and more electron-deficient aldehydes, such as 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and 4-chloro-3-nitrobenzaldehyde, gave good yields. The isolated ylides reacted with aldehydes as Wittig reagents to give olefins in moderate yields.
6-Nitroquinoline 6 undergoes direct cyclocondensation with aromatic aldehyde hydrazones 9 in the presence of sodium hydride in DMF at low temperature, giving the corresponding 3-aryl-1H-pyrazolo[3,4-f]quinolines 10 and/or 3-aryl[1,2,4]triazino[6,5-f]quinolines 11 in low to moderate yield. With aromatic keto hydrazones 7, 3,3-disubstituted 2,3-dihydro[1,2,4]triazino[6,5-f]quinoline-4-oxides 8 are obtained in moderate to good yield. The mode of cyclocondensation is considerably dependent on the electronic nature of a ring substituent of the aromatic hydrazones; electron-donating substituents favor the formation of 11, while electron-withdrawing substituents ::: work favorably for the formation of 10. Monocyclic nitroarenes 15 react similarly with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde hydrazone 9a to give another type of cyclocondensation product, 3-aryl-1H-indazoles 16, in moderate yield. In contrast, nucleophilic substitution of a ring hydrogen atom takes place with 4-methylbenzaldehyde hydrazone 9f to yield N-arylated hydrazone 22b, which, however, fails to cyclize to 16 under the conditions employed. The reaction has been suggested to proceed through the initial attack of a hydrazone anion on the position adjacent to the nitro group, followed by migration of an ipso hydrogen atom to the nitro group in the Meisenheimer intermediate 18. The resulting N2-arylated hydrazone anion would undergo ring closure via either addition to the nitroso group or displacement of this moiety, eventually leading to the fused aza-arenes 8, 10/11, 13 or 16.
Chiral supramol. metal-org. frameworks assembled from copper complexes catalyze Henry and aza-Henry reactions of arom. and aliph. aldehydes and N-protected arom. imines in high yield and good to excellent enantioselectivity. Thus, a method for the synthesis of the title compds. [i.e., copper-chiral cyclohexanediamine complexes] is reported here. A Henry reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with nitromethane gave (alphaS)-4-nitro-alpha-(nitromethyl)benzenemethanol. Reactions can be performed in the absence of base in ethanol or water. An aza-Henry reaction of N-[(4-nitrophenyl)methylene]carbamic acid 1,1-dimethylethyl ester with nitromethane gave N-[(1S)-1-(4-nitrophenyl)-2-nitroethyl]carbamic acid 1,1-dimethylethyl ester.
In the centenary of the discovery of Chagas' disease (AD), this parasitosis caused by Trypanosoma cruzi neglected and important cause of morbidity and mortality in Latin America, no vaccines or chemotherapeutic agents satisfactory. This thesis aims to analyze activity, selectivity and mechanisms of action of T. cruzi on the 04 classes of compounds (fluoroquinolones - CF thiosemicarbazones - TS, aromatic diamidines - DA and arilimidamidas - AIA - a new class from DA) in vitro and in vivo. CF as NOR and SPAR are antibiotics with broad antibacterial action, acting on the DNA via toposoimerases. Although SPAR and NOR have not been active, their metallic complexes of copper-phenanthroline were effective on trypomastigotes and intracellular forms of T. cruzi (IC50 1.62 to 4.65 mM). TS are anti-tumor agents and microbicides that act on ribonucleotide reductase and cysteine ​​proteases. All TS showed low toxicity (> 200μM) on cells of mammals. Although N4-methyl-4-nitrobenzaldehyde thiosemicarbazone, N4-methyl-4-nitroacetophenone thiosemicarbazone and its metal complex of manganese (Mn) were not active, the complex of Mn N4-methyl-4-nitrobenzophenone thiosemicarbazone revealed was moderately active on blood forms (IC50 19μM). The third class was DA, DNA binders with excellent activity against many pathogens. Although all have low toxicity cardiomyocyte, only three (DB1645, DB1582 and DB1651) were active against blood forms and intracellular (IC 50 from 0.15 to 13.3 mM), activity related to the curvature of the molecules (the molecules being the non-linear effective). OF all located in the nucleus and kDNA from parasites, with greater accumulation in the ulti ::: In vitro analysis of EIA DB766 on T.cruzi revealed: (i) excellent activity against bloodstream forms (60nm) and intracellular (25nm), while maintaining optimal action even when the parasite and incubated with 96% blood of mice, thus suggesting a potential prophylactic use, (ii) act on different strains (peridomestic / wild), including naturally resistant to benznidazole (BZ), with higher efficacy than BZ, (iii) location compartments rich DNA damage inducing ultrastructural the mitochondria . Based on the excellent selectivity index (> 533 and 714), tests were conducted during experimental acute infection by T. cruzi (Y and Colombian strains) in daily doses or alternate = 100mg/kg/day of DB766 alone or associated with BZ, administered ip or po for up to 20 days with the first dose at the onset of parasitaemia. DB766 (25 100mg/kg/day and 50mg/kg/day ip and po) reduced (> 90%) the parasite load (blood and cardiac tissue) and 90-100% protected against mortality, with similar efficacy to the BZ. EIA reversed inflammation and cardiac electrical changes and protected against liver injury induced by infection and muscle. Sub-optimal doses of BZ associated with DB289 (DA - pro-drug of DB75 - via po) or DB766 (ip) resulted in ≥ 99% reduction of parasitemia and 100% protective on mortality. BZ (po) + DB766 (ip) resulted in parasitological cure (2, 15 dogs) assessed by blood culture and PCR. EIA was the most active and selective against T. cruzi, encouraging the continuation of pre-clinical trials with representatives of this class in order to identification of new drugs for AD
By the reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with ethyl acetoacetate, malononitrile and hydrazine hydrate, pyranopyrazole derivative as an active biological compound was synthsized and then reacted with salicylaldehyde and MnCl2.4H2O to afford nano-Mn-[4-nitrophenyl-salicylaldimine-methyl pyranopyrazole]Cl2 (nano-[Mn-4NSMP]Cl2) for the first time. The produced Schiff base complex with nanostructured was fully characterized by Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR), X-ray diffraction (XRD), thermal gravimetric analysis (TGA), differential thermal gravimetric (DTG) and scanning electron microscope (SEM) and used it as an efficient catalyst for the preparation of hexahydroquinolines.
Sodium acetate was applied as an efficient catalyst for the one-pot, three-component condensation reaction consisting of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde 2, malononitrile 3, and 4-hydroxycoumarin 1. For the first time, the kinetics and mechanism of the reaction has been investigated spectrally. The second-order rate constant dependency on the temperature was in agreement with the Arrhenius and Eyring equations. The kinetic and thermodynamic parameters of the reaction were calculated. Furthermore, useful information was obtained from studies of the solvent and concentration effects on the reaction rate. The results showed that the second step of the reaction mechanism is a rate-determining step. The proposed mechanism was also confirmed according to the obtained results and the steady-state approximation.
Abstract The direct aldol reaction between cyclic ketones and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde catalyzed by chiral Zn 2+ complexes of aminoacyl 1,4,7,10-tetraazacyclododecane is reported. The anti -aldol products were mainly formed in cyclohexanone/ N -methylpyrrolidone(NMP)/MeOH with good diastereo- and enantioselectivity, while syn -aldol adducts were obtained as major products with good enantioselectivity in cyclohexanone/H 2 O and cyclohexanone/NMP/H 2 O. The fact that the UV/vis spectra of 2,6-diphenyl-4-(2,4,6-triphenyl-1-pyridinio)phenolate (Reichardt’s dye) were nearly identical in these solvent systems suggests that the switch in the relative configuration of the aldol products is induced by a large excess of H 2 O rather than the polarity of the solvent system. Furthermore, the addition of a small amount of TFA improved the enantioselectivity of the syn -aldol adducts produced in cyclohexanone/H 2 O with up to 92% ee ( anti / syn ratio = 30:70).
4,7-Dihydro-6-nitro-7Ar-5-R-azolo[1,5-a]pyrimidines were obtained by the multicomponent reaction of aminoazoles, morpholino-nitroalkenes and aromatic aldehydes in the catalysis of boron trifluoride etherate. The optimal reaction conditions were determined and the formation of the target regioisomer was demonstrated. The pathway for multicomponent transformation, including the formation of azolyl-nitroalkene, was determined. Morpholino-nitroalkenes were assumed to convert into the corresponding nitroalkynes during catalysis of boron trifluoride etherate. For a multicomponent reaction with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, conditions have been proposed that exclude the formation of a side regioisomer.
The title ( E )-(3-nitrophenyl)-1-(pyrazin-2-yl)prop-2-en-1-ones were prepared by the Claisen- Schmidt condensation of acetylpyrazines and 2-nitro-, 3-nitro- and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde in pyridine using diethylamine as the catalyst. The compounds were bioassayed for in vitro antifungal, antimycobacterial and photosynthesis-inhibiting activity. The high potency of ( E )-1-(5- tert -butylpyrazin-2-yl)-3-(4-nitrophenyl)prop-2-en-1-one against Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MIC 0.78 μg/ml) and moderate activities of several compounds against Trichophyton mentagrophytes and Candida spp. do not support the assumption that phenolic groups are essential for antimycobacterial and antifungal activity of chalcones and their analogues. In fact, the nitro-substituted compounds were superior to the previously described hydroxylated congeners with antimycobacterial activity (MIC ≥ 12.5 μg/ml). The compounds also reduced chlorophyll content in green alga Chlorella vulgaris , and some of them inhibited photosynthetic electron transport in spinach chloroplasts as well. The photosynthesis-inhibiting activity of nitro derivatives was lower than that of the corresponding hydroxylated analogues.
Abstract We describe the effect of Li + on photoinduced charge transfer at TiO 2 in acetonitrile solutions at open circuit (photocatalytic conditions) or under potential control. Using 2-propanol and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde as probe scavengers of holes and electrons, respectively, we aim to demonstrate the importance of tuning the chemical role of electrons and holes through control of surface and interface properties. Adsorption of Li + in the dark causes a positive shift of the TiO 2 bands as revealed by cyclic voltammetry and Mott–Schottky analysis. Likewise, there is clear evidence that dark adsorption of 2-propanol brings about a redistribution of the bandgap states. Electrochemical measurements show that, upon illumination, the charge of photo-accumulated electrons is compensated by Li + that can undergo insertion at the surface/subsurface region, which prevents a negative shift of the bands and has important consequences on the overall photo(electro) catalytic processes. Concerning the fate of electrons, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde is selectively reduced to 4-aminobenzaldehyde probing that electron transfer specifically involves the NO 2 moiety while reduction of the aldehyde functional group is observed only at much more negative potentials than E fb and is cation insensitive. Regarding the fate of photogenerated holes, the effect of Li + is evident in the change of the mechanism of 2-propanol oxidation, as revealed by both electrochemical and EPR experiments. Adsorption as alcoholate occurs in the dark but it is strongly inhibited on pre-illuminated TiO 2 in the presence of Li + .
Abstract Changes in the cyclic voltammograms of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (1), (mediator) in the presence of perfluoroalkyl halides (2) with the addition of nucleophilic agents (3) have been used for estimating the relative reactivities of the named compounds (see Fig.). Some data on reactivities (γ) of several S-, C-, P- and N-nucleophilic agents toward perfluoropropyl iodide and the corresponding oxidation potentials of nucleophiles are shown in the Table. Nucleophilic agent E 1/2 ox , V γ 2-Nitropropane tetramethylammonium salt 0.05 1.00 2-Quinolinethiol sodium salt 0.00 0.59 2-Methylene-1,3,3-trimethylindoline 0.77 0.33 Potassium phthalimide 0.88 0.33 Aniline 1.04 0.020 Triethyl phosphite 0.83 0.0069
Abstract Three l -proline modulated zirconium based MOFs denoted as UiO-66, Zr-NDC (NDC = 2,6-Naphthalenedicarboxylate) and UiO-67 were synthesized, characterized and explored as heterogeneous catalyst in diastereoselective aldol addition reactions between 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and linear/cyclic ketones. Upon l -proline modulation, chirality was introduced into these Zr-MOFs which were consequently explored as chiral catalysts for asymmetric reactions. A systematic study was conducted to look into the effect of the synthesis temperature on the modulation in each Zr-MOF. The modulated UiO-66 material synthesized at 120 °C exhibited full conversion and a good diastereoselectivity whereas the homogeneous l -proline catalyst showed only 61% conversion and a reversed diastereoselectivity. The catalyst exhibited no leaching of the catalytically active species and was reused for at least three additional cycles. The observed high catalytic activity is a result of the electron withdrawing nature of the Zr-node coordinated to l -proline.
Copper(I) complexes of the formula [Cu(L)(PPh3)2]X (1-4) (X = Cl(1), ClO4(2), BF4(3) and PF6(4)) [where L = N-(2-{[(2E)-2-(4-nitrobenzylidenyl)hydrazinyl]carbonyl}phenyl)benzamide; PPh3 = triphenylphosphine] have been prepared by the condensation of N-[2-(hydrazinocarbonyl)phenyl]benzamide with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde followed by the reaction with CuCl, [Cu(MeCN)4]ClO4, [Cu(MeCN)4]BF4 and [Cu(MeCN)4]PF6 in presence of triphenylphosphine as a coligand. Complexes 1-4 were then characterized by elemental analyses, FTIR, UV-visible and 1H NMR spectroscopy. Mononuclear copper(I) complexes 1-4 were formed with L in its keto form by involvement of azomethine nitrogen and the carbonyl oxygen along with two PPh3 groups. A single crystal X-ray diffraction study of the representative complex [(Cu(L)(PPh3)2]CIO4 (2) reveals a distorted tetrahedral geometry around Cu(I). Crystal data of (2): space group = C2/c, a = 42.8596 (9) Å, b = 14.6207 (3) Å, c = 36.4643 (7) Å, V = 20,653.7 (7) Å3, Z = 16. Complexes 1-4 exhibit quasireversible redox behaviour corresponding to a Cu(I)/Cu(II) couple. All complexes show blue-green emission as a result of fluorescence from an intra-ligand charge transition (ILCT), ligand to ligand charge transfer transition (LLCT) or mixture of both. Significant increase in size of the counter anion shows marked effect on quantum efficiency and lifetime of the complexes in solution.
A packed-bed plug-flow reactor, denoted as the lab-scale liquid-solid (LS)² reactor, has been developed for the assessment of heterogeneous catalyst deactivation in liquid-phase reactions. The possibility to measure intrinsic kinetics was first verified with the model transesterification of ethyl acetate with methanol, catalyzed by the stable commercial resin Lewatit K2629, for which a turnover frequency (TOF) of 6.2 ± 0.4 × 10−3 s−1 was obtained. The absence of temperature and concentration gradients was verified with correlations and experimental tests. The potential for assessing the deactivation of a catalyst was demonstrated by a second intrinsic kinetics evaluation where a methylaminopropyl (MAP)-functionalized mesoporous silica catalyst was used for the aldol reaction of acetone with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde in different solvents. The cooperative MAP catalyst deactivated as a function of time on stream when using hexane as solvent. Yet, the monofunctional MAP catalyst exhibited stable activity for at least 4 h on stream, which resulted in a TOF of 1.2 ± 0.1 × 10−3 s−1. It did, however, deactivate with dry acetone or DMSO as solvent due to the formation of site-blocking species. This deactivation was mitigated by co-feeding 2 wt % of water to DMSO, resulting in stable catalyst activity.
Abstract To produce a novel class of anticancer compounds, an efficient method for synthesizing novel β-lactone and β-lactam frameworks was developed based on the reaction of a new ketene with C=O and C=N bonds. Functionalized 2-azetidinones were efficiently synthesized by employing 2,4-dichlorophenoxylketene, which was generated in situ. The reaction of the ketene with aldehydes was not successful and in all cases except for 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, a rearranged dimer of the ketene was obtained as a lactone. Anticancer cellular activity of all new β-lactams and lactones on breast cancer cells was studied. All new synthesized compounds exhibited potential anticancer activity which may guarantee their future application in moderate chemotherapy.
Abstract The work involves synthesis of novel Schiff base derivatives containing a pyrimidine unit starting with chalcones. 4-Aminoacetophenone was reacted with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde or 4-chlorobenzaldehyde in basic medium giving chalcones, [I]a and [I]b, respectively, by Claisen-Schemidt reaction. The chalcones [I]a and [I]b were reacted with urea in HCl medium giving oxopyrimidines, [II]a and [II]b. They were also reacted with thiourea in basic medium to give thioxopyrimidines, [III]a and [III]b. The novel mono and bis Schiff bases, [VIII]na, [VIII]nb, [IX]na, [IX]nb, [X]na, [X]nb, [XI]na, and [XI]nb were synthesized by the reaction of pyrimidine derivatives; oxopyrimdines, [II]a and [II]b and thioxopyrimidines, [III]a and [III]b with 4-(4′-n-alkoxybenzoloxy)benzaldehyde [VI] and polymethylene-α,ω-bis-4-oxybenzaldehydes [VII]m, respectively, in dry benzene using drops of glacial acetic acid as a catalyst. The synthesized compounds were characterized by melting points, elemental analysis, FTIR, and 1H NMR spectroscopy.
A series of SBA-15 materials with different legnths of linker immobilized L-prolinamide catalysts were prepared by thiol-ene reaction. The materials were characterized with XRD, N2 sorption isotherm, IR spectroscopy and solid-state NMR techniques. These catalysts with chiral centers could be reused by simple filtration to separate from the products. The SBA-15 anchored L-prolinamide could catalyze asymmetric Aldol reaction between cyclohexanone with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde under mild condition. Factors which might affect the catalytic performance including the type of solvents, the amount of water as solvent, the amount of catalysts, the linker length between L-prolinamide and SBA-15, the reaction time and temperature. The results showed that higher enentioselectivity could be reached over the catalysts with longer linker. The catalyst containing octyl chain between SBA-15 and L-prolinamide gave 66% of conversion, and greater than 99% of enantioselectivity. The conversion could be increased to 76% and the the enantioselectivity was still unchanged when the reaction was prolonged from 24 h to 48 h. These catalysts could be reused at least three times retaining the same activities.
A packed-bed plug-flow reactor, denoted as the lab-scale liquid-solid (LS) 2 reactor, has been developed for the assessment of heterogeneous catalyst deactivation in liquid-phase reactions. The possibility to measure intrinsic kinetics was first verified with the model transesterification of ethyl acetate with methanol, catalyzed by the stable commercial resin Lewatit K2629, for which a turnover frequency (TOF) of 6.2 ± 0.4 × 10 −3 s −1 was obtained. The absence of temperature and concentration gradients was verified with correlations and experimental tests. The potential for assessing the deactivation of a catalyst was demonstrated by a second intrinsic kinetics evaluation where a methylaminopropyl (MAP)-functionalized mesoporous silica catalyst was used for the aldol reaction of acetone with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde in different solvents. The cooperative MAP catalyst deactivated as a function of time on stream when using hexane as solvent. Yet, the monofunctional MAP catalyst exhibited stable activity for at least 4 h on stream, which resulted in a TOF of 1.2 ± 0.1 × 10 −3 s −1 . It did, however, deactivate with dry acetone or DMSO as solvent due to the formation of site-blocking species. This deactivation was mitigated by co-feeding 2 wt % of water to DMSO, resulting in stable catalyst activity.
The work involves synthesis of novel Schiff base derivatives containing a pyrimidine unit starting with chalcones. 4-Aminoacetophenone was reacted with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde or 4-chlorobenzaldehyde in basic medium giving chalcones, [I] a and [I] b , respectively, by Claisen-Schemidt reaction. The chalcones [I] a and [I] b were reacted with urea in HCl medium giving oxopyrimidines, [II] a and [II] b . They were also reacted with thiourea in basic medium to give thioxopyrimidines, [III] a and [III] b . The novel mono and bis Schiff bases, [VIII] na , [VIII] nb , [IX] na , [IX] nb , [X] na , [X] nb , [XI] na , and [XI] nb were synthesized by the reaction of pyrimidine derivatives; oxopyrimdines, [II] a and [II] b and thioxopyrimidines, [III] a and [III] b with 4-(4 0 -n-alkoxybenzoloxy)benzaldehyde [VI] and polymethylene-a,x-bis-4-oxybenzaldehydes [VII] m , respectively, in dry benzene using drops of glacial acetic acid as a catalyst. The synthesized compounds were characterized by melting points, elemental analysis, FTIR, and 1 H NMR spectroscopy. ª 2013 Production and hosting by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of King Saud University.
Pseudomonas fluorescens 410PR grows on 4-nitrobenzoate but does not metabolize 4-nitrotoluene. The TOL pWW0 delta pm plasmid converts 4-nitrotoluene into 4-nitrobenzoate through its upper pathway, but it does not metabolize 4-nitrobenzoate. P. fluorescens 410PR(pWW0 delta pm) transconjugants were isolated and found to be able to grow on 4-nitrotoluene. This phenotype was stable after growth for at least 300 generations without any selective pressure. P. fluorescens 410PR(pWW0 delta pm) converted 4-nitrotoluene into 4-nitrobenzoate via 4-nitrobenzylalcohol and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde. 4-Nitrobenzoate was metabolized via 4-hydroxylaminobenzoate and finally yielded NH4+ and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoate, which was mineralized.
Catalyst precursors 1 and 2, made by ion-pairing [H3Ru4(CO)12] � with NR þ 4 groups of functionalized MCM-41 and water-soluble poly(diallyldimethylammonium chloride), PDADMAC, respectively, have been evaluated for the chemoselective hydrogenation of nitro- and cyano-benzaldehydes. They are found to be inert toward –NO2 and –CN groups, but active for the reduction of –CHO and >C=C< functionalities. Thus, 3, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, nitrostyrene, and 3-cyanobenzaldehyde are hydrogenated with full selectivity to the corresponding nitrobenzylalcohols, 1-ethyl-3-nitrobenzene, and 3-cynaobenzylalcohol, respectively. No such chemoselectivity is observed either with PDADMAC-RuCl4 (3) or with (5%)RuAl2O3, where both the functional groups are hydrogenated. Kinetic analyses have been carried out for the hydrogenation of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with 2. Existence of an induction time and two competitive equilibriums followed by the product-forming rate-determining step are inferred from the empirically derived rate expression. The kinetic results, structural evidences, and previous work strongly suggest that the observed chemoselectivity is probably a result of the absence of multiple crystal planes, differing in Miller indices, in the cluster-derived catalysts.
Aldose reductase was prepared from a pool of 21 male and 16 female human retinas by ammonium sulphate fractionation (40-75% saturation) and chromatography on DEAE-Sephacel and Matrex-OA. The overall purification was 132-fold with 50% recovery of enzyme activity. The concentrations of the aldose reductase inhibitors Sorbinil, Statil and M79175 required to give 50% inhibition (IC50 value) of enzyme activity with the model substrate 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (4NB) were 3.4 microM, 2.3 microM and 0.22 microM respectively. This indicated that M79175 was the most effective inhibitor tested of aldose reductase with 4NB in vitro. These inhibitors were more effective when tested against aldose reductase activity with glucose, the substrate which might play a role in the pathogenesis of diabetic complications. Sorbinil gave an IC50 (glucose) of 0.40 microM; M79175 and Statil were more effective. At an inhibitor concentration of 0.1 microM the %-inhibitions observed were: Sorbinil 20% M79175 55%, Statil 76%. Thus Statil was the most potent compound tested against human retinal enzyme using the more physiological substrate in vitro. This report provides the first direct evidence that human retinal aldose reductase is susceptible to inhibition by compounds designed for chemotherapy of diabetic complications, and indicates that the concentrations of inhibitor required for a substantial block of activity in vitro are lower than those attained in plasma in man.
The reaction of the 1,2-dilithiated o-carborane with 1,2-dichlorotetraethyldisilane yielded the strained 3,4-carboranylene-1,1,2,2-tetraethyl-1,2-disilacyclobut-3-ene (2), which was found to be a good reactant for the double-silylation reaction. Thus, the reaction of 2 with RC⋮CR‘ in the presence of a catalytic amount of Pd(PPh3)4 yielded the six-membered disilyl ring compounds B10H10C2(SiEt2)2(RCCR‘) (R = Ph, R‘ = H (6); R = Ph, R‘ = CH3 (7); R = R‘ = COOCH3 (8); R = C4H9, R‘ = H (9)). The palladium-catalyzed reaction of 2 with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde afforded 5,6-carboranylene-2-oxa-1,4-disilacyclohex-5-ene (10). In contrast, the reaction of 2 with trans-cinnamaldehyde under the same reaction conditions yielded the insertion compound 11 formed via insertion of a carbonyl group into each of the C−Si bonds of 2. The structures of compounds 2, 6, and 11 were determined by single-crystal X-ray crystallography.
In search of new ways to improve catalyst design, the current research focused on using quantum mechanical descriptors to investigate the effect of proline as a catalyst for mechanism and rate of asymmetric aldol reaction. A plausible mechanism of reaction between acetone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde in acetone medium was developed using highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) and lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) energies calculated via density functional theory (DFT) at the 6-31G∗/B3LYP level of theory. New mechanistic steps were proposed and found to follow, with expansion, the previously reported iminium-enamine route of typical class 1 aldolase enzymes. From the elementary steps, the first step which involves a bimolecular collision of acetone and proline was considered as the rate-determining step, having the highest activation energy of 59.07 kJ mol-1. The mechanism was used to develop the rate law from which the overall rate constant was calculated and found to be 4.04×10-8dm3mol-1s-1 . The new mechanistic insights and the explicit computation of the rate constant further improve the kinetic knowledge of the reaction.
A new series of N,N′-(bicyclo[2,2,2]oct-7-ene-tetracarboxylic)-bis-L-amino acids 3a–g were synthesized by the condensation reaction of bicyclo[2,2,2]oct-7-ene-2,3,5,6-tetracarboxylic dianhydride 1 with two equimolars of various amino acids such as L-alanine 2a, L-valine 2b, L-leucine 2c, L-isoleucine 2d, L-phenyl alanine 2e, L-2-aminobutyric acid 2f and L-histidine 2g in an acetic acid solution. Also 1,5-bis(4-aminophenyl)penta-1,4-dien-3-one 7 was synthesized by using a two-step reaction. At first 1,5-bis(4-nitrophenyl)penta-1,4-dien-3-one 6 was prepared from the reaction of two equimolars 4-nitrobenzaldehyde 5 and one equimolar acetone 4 in ethanol and NaHCO3 and dinitro compound 6 was reduced by using Na2S. Then seven new photosensitive and optically active organo-soluble poly(amide–imide)s (PAIs) 8a–g with good inherent viscosities were synthesized from the direct polycondensation reaction of new N,N′-(bicyclo[2,2,2]oct-7-ene-tetracarboxylic)-bis-L-amino acids 3a–g with 1,5-bis(4-aminophenyl)penta-1,4-dien-3-one 7 by two different methods such as direct polycondensation in a medium consisting of N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone (NMP)/triphenyl phosphite (TPP)/calcium chloride (CaCl2)/pyridine (py) and direct polycondensation in a tosyl chloride (TsCl)/pyridine (py)/N,N-dimethylformamide (DMF) system. The polymerization reactions produced a series of photosensitive and optically active organo-soluble PAIs with high yield and good inherent viscosity. The resulted polymers were fully characterized by means of FTIR and 1H-NMR spectroscopy, elemental analyses, inherent viscosity, specific rotation, solubility tests, UV-vis spectroscopy, differential scanning calorimeter (DSC), thermogravimetric analysis (TGA), and derivative of thermaogravimetric (DTG). These macromolecules exhibited maximum UV-vis absorption at around 370 and 265 nm in a DMF solution.
Abstract A novel ambidentate tridentate pincer ligand based on a bis-triazole precursor, was prepared, characterized, and metallated with ZnCl 2 to give a new tridentate NNN-bound pincer zinc(II) pincer complex: dichloro(η 3 - N , N , N )-[2,6-bis(3-[ N -butyl]triazol-5-thione-1-yl)]pyridinezinc(II), [(NNN)ZnCl 2 ]. This compound has pseudo-trigonal bipyramidal geometry at the zinc(II) center and exhibits metal–ligand binding that contrasts with our previously reported SNS-bound systems despite the availability of these same donor atoms in the current ligand set. The zinc complex was characterized with single crystal X-ray diffraction, 1 H, 13 C, and HSQC NMR spectroscopies, and electrospray mass spectrometry. The ligand precursors were characterized with 1 H, 13 C, and HSQC NMR spectroscopies, and cyclic voltammetry, and were found to be redox active. Density functional calculations, which investigate and support the nature of the NNN binding suggest that the experimentally observed oxidation and reduction waves are not the result of a simple one-electron process. The zinc complex was screened for the reduction of electron-poor aldehydes in the presence of a hydrogen donor, 1-benzyl-1,4-dihydronicotinamide (BNAH), and it was determined that they enhance the reduction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde. Quantitative stoichiometric conversion was seen for the reduction of pyridine-2-carboxaldehyde.
2-Aminothiophenol (1) reacts with 3-chloro-2,4-pentanedione (2) in the presence of pyridine to form 2-acetyl-3-methyl-4H-1,4-benzothiazine (3) in high yields. Reaction of3 with hydrazine gives 4-(2′-aminophenylthio)-3,5-dimethylpyrazole (5). Condensation of3 with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde yields the corresponding Schiff base7. Hydroxylamine with benzothiazine3 affords 3,9a-dimethyl-3a, 9a-dihydro-9H-isoxazolo[4,5-b][1,4]benzothiazine (8).
An imidazolidine Schiff base ligand, (E)-N-(4-nitrobenzylidene)-2-(2-(4-nitrophenyl)imidazolidine-1-yl) ethaneamine (L) has been synthesized by a condensation reaction between N′-(2-aminoethyl)-ethane-1,2-diamine and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde in 1:2 ratio and then characterized by physical and spectral data. Some new complexes with general formula of MLX2(wherein M is Zn(II), Cd(II) and Hg(II) and X is chloride, bromide and/or iodide) have been prepared and characterized by physical and spectroscopic studies such as elemental analysis, molar conductance measurements, FT-IR, 1H and 13C NMR and UV–Visible electronic spectra. The spectral data indicate that the ligand is coordinated to zinc(II) as a bidentate ligand in imidazolidine form but it binds to other metal salts as bis-imine tridentate ligand. Furthermore, cyclic voltammetry technique was applied for recording the electrochemical behaviour of the ligand and its complexes. Cyclic voltamogram of the ligand showed that it is reduced at four cathodic potentials and then oxidized only in two anodic potentials in reverse direction. The electrochemical behaviour of ligand is affected by coordination. Thermal analysis of ligand and its complexes revealed that they are decomposed via 3-4 thermal steps. Moreover, some activation thermodynamic parameters such as A, E*, ΔH*, ΔS* and ΔG* were calculated based on TG/DTA plots using Coats–Redfern relation. The Schiff base ligand and its complexes have also been tested in vitro to evaluate their antimicrobial activities.
In search of new ways to improve catalyst design, the current research focused on using quantum mechanical descriptors to investigate the effect of proline as a catalyst for mechanism and rate of asymmetric aldol reaction. A plausible mechanism of reaction between acetone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde in acetone medium was developed using highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) and lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) energies calculated via density functional theory (DFT) at the 6-31G⁄/ B3LYP level of theory. New mechanistic steps were proposed and found to follow, with expansion, the previously reported iminium-enamine route of typical class 1 aldolase enzymes. From the elementary steps, the first step which involves a bimolecular collision of acetone and proline was considered as the rate-determining step, having the highest activation energy of 59.07 kJ mol
Proline was shown to possess catalytic activity as well as enantioselectivity upon asymmetric aldol reaction [5, 6] in previous studies, including the pioneering work of Hajos-Parrish-EderSauer-Wiechert [7, 8] . It is a viable organocatalyst for several other asymmetric transformations, such as Mannich and Michael additions [9] [10] [11] . The mechanism of the reaction, as seen in Scheme 2, was proposed to proceed via iminium-enamine transformation [5] as was discussed by Jung [12] and, later, Hoang et al. [13] . The enantioselectivity-determining step of the mechanism was found to be influenced by proline [14] [15] [16] . Blackmond et al. used Reaction Progress Kinetic Analysis (RPKA) to investigate the dependence of Scheme 1. catalysed aldol reaction between acetone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde taking place in acetone medium.
Scheme 2. Reported mechanism of proline-catalysed aldol reaction between acetone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde. the reaction rate on the reactants' concentrations and proposed a rate law [17] . More recently in 2016, Ceotto et al. improved upon the rate law, taking into consideration the reversibility of the elementary steps [18] . Previous works indicated that enamine formation and/or carbon-carbon bond formation is the rate-determining step [19] [20] [21] [22] . However, the work of Boyd et al., which utilizes the density-functional method in acetone medium, found that the initial complexation between proline and acetone required the highest activation energy [23] . However, there was a significant energy drop upon carrying out the reaction in a different medium (Dimethyl sulfoxide). As such, the step is the rate-limiting but only in acetone medium [23] .
Abstract Under ambient reaction conditions, a one-pot acetalization of carbonyl compounds with methanol was carried out over a series of solid acid catalysts. Ion-exchanged montmorillonite samples were prepared by a metal cation (Ce 3+ , Fe 3+ and Al 3+ ) exchange from the activated K-10 montmorillonite. These materials have been characterized by wide-angle X-ray scattering (WAXS), solid-state nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (solid-state NMR) , temperature programmed desorption of ammonia (NH 3 -TPD) and Brunauer–Emmett–Teller (BET) analysis. The catalytic results of montmorillonites were compared with those of H–Y, Ce,Na–Y, Ce,H–Y zeolites, SiO 2 and γ-Al 2 O 3 . Irrespective of the catalyst, the reaction yields the corresponding dimethoxyacetal in high yield. Comparison of the catalytic activity indicates that the montmorillonite catalysts are the most active catalysts for the reaction. The molecular size of the carbonyl substrates is one of the significant factors in determining the acetalization ability of the catalysts, and the activity of ketones follow the order cyclohexanone > 4-nitroacetophenone > acetophenone > 4-methoxybenzophenone > benzophenone. In the aromatic carbonyl compounds, the electron donor or acceptor properties of the substituents are also critical to the reactivity of the acetophenones and benzaldehydes. The aldehydes considered in the present investigation exhibit an activity order of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde > benzaldehyde > 4-methoxybenzaldehyde, which substantiates that electron-withdrawing groups favor the reaction. The reaction time studies indicate that the montmorillonite catalysts are more resistant to deactivation, predominantly due to the superior pore diffusional properties of these materials compared to microporous zeolites.
In this study, the gold clusters Au11(PPh3)7Cl3 and Au11(PPh2Py)7Br3 (PPh2Py = diphenyl-2-pyridylphosphine) are synthesized via a one-pot procedure based on the wet chemical reduction method. The Au11(PPh3)7Cl3 cluster is found to be active in the chemoselective hydrogenation of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde in the presence of hydrogen (H2) and a base (e.g., pyridine). Interestingly, the cluster with the functional ligand PPh2Py shows similar activity without losing catalytic efficiency in the absence of the base. The structure of the gold clusters and reaction pathway of the catalytic hydrogenation are investigated at the atomic/molecular level via UV–vis spectroscopy, electrospray ionization (ESI) mass spectrometry, and density functional theory (DFT) calculations. It is found that one ligand (PPh3 or PPh2Py) removal is the first step to expose the core of the gold clusters to reactants, providing an active site for the catalytic reaction. Then, the H–H bond of the H2 molecule becomes activated with the aid of ei...
Cellulose nanocrystals (CNCs) are demonstrated as effective, ordered supports for cooperative acid–base heterogeneous organocatalysis, offering an alternative to typical silica supports. CNC catalyst surface chemistry is optimized through quantitative control of the loadings of carboxylic acids, primary amines, and sulfate half-esters, as characterized by elemental analysis, conductometric titration, and FT–IR spectroscopy. Catalysts are evaluated in the liquid phase aldol condensation of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde or furfural with acetone. Carboxylic acids are effective cooperative acid partners in CNC organocatalysts, and site-specific activity is strongly correlated with the COOH:NH2 ratio. Partial sulfate half-ester removal, high acid/base ratios, and use of unprotected diamines in the catalyst synthesis lead to optimized CNC catalyst function (site-time yield = 1.0 × 10–4 s–1). High selectivities to dehydrated aldol products (>80%) are achieved due to the acid content of the CNC catalysts. CNC catalysts out...
A sensitive and selective colorimetric method has been devised for the micro-determination of copper (II) ions in pure form, some chemicals and multivitamin preparations. The method depends on the formation of stable blue complexes in ammonia medium peaking at 615 nm between copper (II) ions, oxalyldihydrazide and one of the following aldehydes: 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, 2-nitrocinnamaldehyde and formaldehyde with minimum detection limits 0.1, 0.16 and 1.1 ppm, respectively. Several metal ions do not interfere. The optimum reaction conditions were studied and the results obtained were favorably comparable to the diethyldithiocarbamate method.
In this contribution on fluorous biphasic catalysis (FBC), we present the synthesis and characterization of new copper complexes, and define their role, as precatalysts, in the FBC oxidation of hydrocarbons, olefins, and alcohols. Thus the previously reported, but poorly characterized, fluoroponytailed ligand, 2,2'-R f -bipyridine (R f = (CH 2 ) 3 C 8 F 1 7 ) 2, as well as the new Cu I I fluoroponytailed carboxylate synthon complex [Cu(C 8 F 1 7 (CH 2 ) 2 CO 2 ) 2 ] 3, will be addressed. Moreover, the reaction of previously described ligands, 1,4,7-R f -TACN 1, or 2,2'-R f -bipyridine 2 with 3 afforded new perfluoroheptane-soluble Cull complexes, [Cu(C 8 F 1 7 (CH 2 ) 2 CO 2 ) 2 (R f -tacn)] 4 and [Cu(C 8 F 1 7 (CH 2 ) 2 CO 2 ) 2 (R f -bpy)] 5, respectively. The reaction of 1 with [Cu(CH 3 CN) 4 ]PF 6 or [CuCl] provided new Cu I complexes, which could be isolated and fully characterized as [Cu(R f -tacn)X']X, in which X=PF 6 (6) or X'=Cl (7) (soluble in perfluoroheptane). The CU I I and Cu I complexes, 4-7, were characterized by elemental analysis, mass spectrometry, and IR, diffuse reflectance UV/Vis, and EPR spectroscopies; complex 7 was also characterized by 1 H and 1 9 F{ 1 H} NMR spectroscopy. Complexes 4 and 5, as well as 6 and 7 generated in situ, were evaluated as precatalysts for hydrocarbon and olefin functionalization. The oxidation reactions of these substrates in the presence of the necessary oxidants, tert-butyl hydroperoxide (TBHP) and oxygen gas, proceeded under FBC conditions for 5, 7, and Cu' salts with 2. However, the complexes with ligand 2 could not be recycled, owing to significant ligand dissociation. The Cu I I complex 4, with the ligand 1, provide the oxidation of 4-nitrobenzyl alcohol to 4-nitrobenzaldehyde under single-phase FBC conditions at 90°C with TEMPO (2,2,6,6-tetramethylpiperidinyl-1-oxy) and O 2 ; the precatalyst 4, can be utilized for an additional four catalytic cycles without loss of activity. Plausible mechanisms concerning these FBC oxidation reactions will be discussed.
The degradation of a series of nitroaromatic compounds by the lignin-degrading fungus Phanerochaete chrysosporium was examined. From 4-nitrotoluene (4-NT), several metabolic intermediates were identified. Initially, 4-NT was converted to 4-nitrobenzyl alcohol (4-NBA), followed by the oxidation reactions to form 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and 4-nitrobenzoic acid, albeit slowly. Exogenously added 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and 4-nitrobenzoic acid were predominantly reduced to 4-NBA. The fungal formation of 4-NBA was inhibited by piperonyl butoxide, a cytochrome P450 inhibitor, suggesting the involvement of cytochrome P450 in the hydroxylation of the methyl group. Similarly, 2-, and 3-nitrotoluenes and 4-chlorotoluene were converted to the corresponding arylalcohols by P. chrysosporium. On the other hand, toluene and 4-methoxytoluene were not converted. Thus, P. chrysosporium possesses an alkyl hydroxylation activity against aromatic compounds substituted with a strong electron-withdrawing group.
Abstract One-dimensional polymeric copper(I) complex [Cu((NO2-ba)2en)(μ-I)]n (1) and dinuclear silver(I) complex [Ag((NO2-ba)2en)(μ-ONO2)]2 (2), where {(NO2-ba)2en = N,N′-bis(4-nitrobenzaldehyde)ethane-1,2-diamine}, were synthesized, characterized by elemental analysis (CHN), FT-IR and 1H NMR spectroscopy, thermal analysis and their structure were confirmed by single crystal X-ray diffraction analysis. The Schiff base acts as NN-bidentate chelating ligand coordinated to Cu(I) and Ag(I) ions. The structural analysis revealed Cu(I) and Ag(I) centers were four-coordinated with N2I2 in 1 and N2O2 in 2 in form of a distorted tetrahedron. The complex 1 has a polymeric structure involving μ-I bridges while complex 2 has di-nuclear structure involving μ-O bridges with a molar proportion 1:1 of Cu(I) or Ag(I) to the Schiff base ligand. Thermogravimetric analysis of the complexes revealed their thermal stability and decomposition pattern.
Cinchona alkaloid and proline derivatives as enantioselective catalysts were covalently attached onto the inner walls of a microreactor using glycidyl methacrylate polymer brushes. The successful formation of the organocatalyst-functionalized brush layers on flat silicon oxide surfaces was confirmed by several techniques such as Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR), ellipsometry, and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). The applicability of the cinchona alkaloid (cinchonidine or quinidine)- and proline-containing polymer brushes in a microreactor was demonstrated for the Diels–Alder reaction between anthrone and N-substituted maleimides, and the aldol reaction between 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and cyclohexanone, respectively, which showed moderate conversions (up to 55% and 23%, respectively) and moderate to good enantioselectivities (up to 55% and 93%, respectively). The pristine catalytic activity of the microreactor was intact even after 1 month.
The reaction between acetone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde catalyzed by aniline prolinamide 1 was studied in depth. Working in different solvents with equimolar amounts of reagents and monitoring the reaction by 1H NMR, we detected and identified several imidazolidinones, such as those of the acetone 4, the aldol products 5a and 5b, and aldehydes 10a and 10b. According to our results, these compounds could influence the reaction rate and diminish product enantioselectivity. Furthermore, acetone imidazolidinone 4 was seen to react with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde to furnish the aldol product 3. This reaction can be catalyzed by different nucleophiles and acids. In fact, strong acids such as camphorsulfonic or trifluoroacetic acid, convert imidazolidinones into iminium salts and afford more enantioselective aldol reactions when different aromatic prolinamides are used. Enantiomeric excesses of ca. 82% are reached.
Sodium acetate was applied as an efficient catalyst for the one-pot, three-component condensation reactions consisting of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde 2, malononitrile 3, and thiobarbituric acid 1. Use of nontoxic reaction components, short reaction times, environmental, easy work-up, and high yields are some remarkable advantages of this method. Kinetics and mechanism of the reaction were spectrally studied and the second order rate constant (kovr = k1) was automatically calculated by the standard equations contained within the program. The second order rate constant [Ln(kovr = k1), Ln(kovr = k1)/T] that depended on reciprocal temperature was in good agreement with the Arrhenius and Eyring equations, respectively. This data provided the suitable plots for calculating the activation energy and parameters (Ea, ΔG‡, ΔS‡, and ΔH‡) of the reaction. Furthermore, from studying the effects of solvent, concentration, and catalyst on the reaction rate, useful information was obtained regarding the mechanism. The results showed that the first step of the reaction mechanism is a rate determining step (RDS). The proposed mechanism was confirmed in accordance with the experimental data and also the steady state approximation.
Reductive amination of the formyl-, and simultaneous reduction of the nitro group of 2-, 3- and 4-nitrobenzaldehydes were accomplished to yield 2-, 3- and 4-dialkylaminomethylanilines in a single step instead of the usual alkylation followed by reduction.
The degradation of a series of nitroaromatic compounds by the lignin-degrading fungus Phanerochaete chrysosporium was examined. From 4-nitrotoluene (4-NT), several metabolic intermediates were identified. Initially, 4-NT was converted to 4-nitrobenzyl alcohol (4-NBA), followed by the oxidation reactions to form 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and 4-nitrobenzoic acid, albeit slowly. Exogenously added 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and 4-nitrobenzoic acid were predominantly reduced to 4-NBA. The fungal formation of 4-NBA was inhibited by piperonyl butoxide, a cytochrome P450 inhibitor, suggesting the involvement of cytochrome P450 in the hydroxylation of the methyl group. Similarly, 2-, and 3-nitrotoluenes and 4-chlorotoluene were converted to the corresponding arylalcohols by P. chrysosporium. On the other hand, toluene and 4-methoxytoluene were not converted. Thus, P. chrysosporium possesses an alkyl hydroxylation activity against aromatic compounds substituted with a strong electron-withdrawing group.
Sodium acetate was applied as an efficient catalyst for the one-pot, three-component condensation reactions consisting of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde 2, malononitrile 3, and thiobarbituric acid 1. Use of nontoxic reaction components, short reaction times, environmental, easy work-up, and high yields are some remarkable advantages of this method. Kinetics and mechanism of the reaction were spectrally studied and the second order rate constant (k ovr = k 1 ) was automatically calculated by the standard equations contained within the program. The second order rate constant [Ln(k ovr = k 1 ), Ln(k ovr = k 1 )/T] that depended on reciprocal temperature was in good agreement with the Arrhenius and Eyring equations, respectively. This data provided the suitable plots for calculating the activation energy and parameters (Ea, ΔG ‡ , ΔS ‡ , and ΔH ‡ ) of the reaction. Furthermore, from studying the effects of solvent, concentration, and catalyst on the reaction rate, useful information was obtained regarding the mechanism. The results showed that the first step of the reaction mechanism is a rate determining step (RDS). The proposed mechanism was confirmed in accordance with the experimental data and also the steady state approximation.
The benzopyrans and their derivatives, in particular, have shown several biological and pharmacological properties, such as spasmolytic, diuretic, antianaphylactin, antisterility, and anticancer agents [7] [8] [9] [10] . The polyfunctionalized benzopyrans were used as cosmetics, pigments, and biodegradable agrochemicals [11, 12] . Due to their applications, the syntheses of heterocyclic derivatives of these ring systems have great importance in medicinal chemistry and organic synthesis. Strategies for the synthesis of these compounds have varied from one-pot to multistep approaches [13] . In recent years, the syntheses of pyrano [2,3-d] pyrimidine were reported using a plethora of reagents in the presence of catalyst, such as L-proline [14] , microwave irradiation [15] [17] , and diammonium hydrogen phosphate [18] . However, some of these methods have drawbacks, such as long reaction times, unsatisfactory yields. Furthermore, some of the used catalysts are either expensive or difficult to prepare. Owing to the importance of pyrano [2,3-d] pyrimidine from a pharmaceutical and biological point of view, there is still a need to develop an efficient, mild reaction benign protocol for the synthesis of pyrano [2,3-d] pyrimidine. As a part of our current studies on development of efficient multicomponent reactions for the preparation of interesting bioactive molecules [19] [20] [21] [22] , especially the synthesis of pyrano [2,3- and efficient procedure for the synthesis of pyrano [2,3-d] pyrimidine via a one-pot, three-component condensation reaction between 4-nitrobenzaldehyde 2, malononitrile 3, and thiobarbituric acid 1 in the presence of catalytic amounts of NaOAc 5 mol% in a mixture of aqueous ethanol at 50 ∘ C (Scheme 1).
The kinetics and mechanism of the mentioned reaction were monitored using the UV-vis spectrophotometery apparatus. Kinetics and mechanism of numerous reactions have been previously studied using the UV-vis technique [24] [25] [26] [27] [28] . In recent years, we have endeavored to expand the synthesis of phosphorous ylides along with developing experimental and theoretical studies on the kinetics and mechanisms of these reactions [29] [30] [31] [32] [33] [34] [35] [36] . In these studies, reactions occurred by at least three steps. The first step of the proposed mechanism was recognized as a rate-determining step and this was confirmed based upon the steady-state approximation. Moreover, the overall reaction order followed second-order kinetics. The rate of all reactions was increased in solvents with upper dielectric constant value that could be related to the differences in stabilization of the reactants and the zwitterionic intermediate by the solvents [29] [30] [31] [32] [33] [34] [35] [36] . In present work, we describe kinetic results together with detailed mechanistic studies for the one-pot, three-component condensation reactions consisting of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde 2, malononitrile 3, and thiobarbituric acid 1 in the presence of sodium acetate as a catalystin methanol and environmental friendless solvents (mixture of ethanol and H 2 O 50/50) based on a global kinetic analysis methodology using the UV-vis spectrophotometry apparatus.
(1) The overall order of the reaction followed secondorder kinetics and the reaction order of each reactant 4-nitrobenzaldehyde 2, malononitrile 3, and thiobarbituric acid 1 is one, one, and zero, respectively.
Reductive amination of the formyl-, and simultaneous reduction of the nitro group of 2-, 3-and 4-nitrobenzaldehydes were accomplished to yield 2-, 3-and 4-dialkylaminomethylanilines in a single step instead of the usual alkylation followed by reduction.
Monodisperse RhCu bimetallic nanoparticles (NPs) with various compositions were prepared by the co-reduction of Rh and Cu ions in the presence of poly(N-vinyl-2-pyrrolidone) (PVP). Powder X-ray diffraction analysis of the PVP-stabilized RhCu NPs revealed the formation of a novel solid-solution structure in which the Rh and Cu atoms are randomly distributed. The catalytic properties of the colloidal RhCu NPs were studied using hydrogenation of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde as a test reaction. We found that the RhCu NPs efficiently reduced 4-nitrobenzaldehyde using atmospheric hydrogen at room temperature and that the selectivity to 4-aminobenzaldehyde was enhanced from ~70 % with monometallic Rh NPs to ~97 % with RhCu NPs with a Cu content of 50 %.
Abstract This work describes the catalytic activity of 17 oxo–rhenium complexes containing heterocyclic ligands in the direct reductive amination of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with 4-chloroaniline, using phenylsilane as reducing agent. In general, all of the catalysts tested gave excellent yields of the secondary amine, although, the best result was obtained with the catalytic system PhSiH 3 /ReOBr 2 (Hhmpbta)(PPh 3 ) (2.5 mol %). This system was also applied to the synthesis of a large variety of secondary amines in good to excellent yields and tertiary amines in moderate yields, with tolerance of different functional groups.
BackgroundThe treatment of leishmaniasis with pentavalent antimonials is problematic because of their toxicity. Investigations of potentially active molecules are important to discover less toxic drugs that are viable economic alternatives for the treatment of leishmaniasis. Thiosemicarbazones are a group of molecules that are known for their wide versatility and biological activity. In the present study, we examined the antileishmania activity, mechanism of action, and biochemical alterations produced by a novel molecule, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde thiosemicarbazone (BZTS), derived from S-limonene against Leishmania amazonensis.ResultsBZTS inhibited the growth of the promastigote and axenic amastigote forms, with an IC50 of 3.8 and 8.0 μM, respectively. Intracellular amastigotes were inhibited by the compound with an IC50 of 7.7 μM. BZTS also had a CC50 of 88.8 μM for the macrophage strain J774A1. BZTS altered the shape, size, and ultrastructure of the parasites, including damage to mitochondria, reflected by extensive swelling and disorganization of the inner mitochondrial membrane, intense cytoplasmic vacuolization, and the presence of concentric membrane structures inside the organelle. Cytoplasmic lipid bodies, vesicles inside vacuoles in the flagellar pocket, and enlargement were also observed. BZTS did not induce alterations in the plasma membrane or increase annexin-V fluorescence intensity, indicating no phosphatidylserine exposure. However, it induced the production of mitochondrial superoxide anion radicals.ConclusionsThe present results indicate that BZTS induced dramatic effects on the ultrastructure of L. amazonensis, which might be associated with mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative damage, leading to parasite death.
C 60 -Containing self-assembled monolayers (SAMs) are of great current interest with respect to transferring unique C 60 properties to various materials by surface tailoring. 1,2 There have been several reports on the C 60 SAMs immobilized onto the surfaces such as indium-tin-oxide (ITO), 3 gold, 4-6 and silicon dioxide. 7 Nevertheless, the well-behaving electrochemistry of the surface confined C 60 could not be observed owing to the dispersion of formal potential. In this study, we present a modified approach introducing diamines (NH 2 (CH 2 ) n NH 2 ; n = 4, 6, 12) as a prelayer for immobilizing C 60 onto the ITO surface. The C 60 /diamine/ITO system shows nearly ideal electrochemical behaviors of surface-confined C 60 . Diamines have been employed as a prelayer because they show pronounced reactivity to both ITO and C 60 . Relevant studies on the spontaneous adsorption of amine moiety onto gold, 8 superconductor, 9 and indium-tin-oxide (ITO) 10 surfaces have been previously reported. Figure 1 shows a schematic representation of the formation of C 60 SAMs using diamine linkages. ITO glass was cleaned with acetone and dried by blowing N 2 stream over the surface. The amine-modified surfaces were formed by 3-day exposure of the ITO to 5 mM diamine in absolute ethanol at room temperature. After rinsing with ethanol, the substrates were dried in vacuum before use. The monolayer formation was confirmed by contact angle measurements. Water contact angle of the prelayers increased as the length of alkyl chains increased (θ = 50°, n = 4; θ = 59°, n = 6; θ = 71°, n = 12), which were comparable to those of the similar amine-terminated monolayer surfaces in other reports. 3, 4, 11 Surface coverages for these prelayers were measured with the method as previously used. 12 An imine was formed between terminal amine group of the layer and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde. After the hydrolysis of the imine, the amount of reproduced 4-nitrobezaldehyde was quantified with UV-vis absorption spectroscopy. The surface density for diaminododecane (n = 12) layer was ca. 5 × 10 -10 mol/cm 2 , consistent with that of previous report. 10 For the two shorter diamine (n = 4, 6) layers, the measurements gave the values ca. 2 × 10 -10 mol/cm 2 , respectively. To immobilize C 60 onto the prelayer, the diamine/ITO substrates were immersed in a 0.1 M chlorobenzene solution of C 60 at room temperature for 3 days under Ar atmosphere. The substrates were rinsed and sonicated in pure chlorobenzene to remove physisorbed C 60 , followed by washing with chlorobenzene and dichloromethane repeatedly. The substrates were dried in vacuum chamber before characterizations. The resulting C 60 SAMs were characterized by using cyclic voltammetry. Figure 2 shows typical cyclic voltammogram (CV) for the redox reaction of C 60 , which is on the diaminododecane prelayer. The formal potentials of the two-redox waves were -1.191 and -1.598 V (vs Fc/Fc + ) respectively, which were shifted by -0.123 and -0.128 V compared to those for unmodified C 60 (-1.068 and -1.470 V, inset Figure 2 ). These cathodic shifts reflect not only the modification of C 60 but also the presence of the special environment in the C 60 /diamine/ITO system such as less polar, more alkanelike interface than bulk. Similar anodic shifts for the monolayer of ferrocenylalkanethiol were previously reported. 13 The surface coverage of C 60 could be calculated as 1.6 × 10 -10 mol/cm 2 by integrating the first reductive current in this CV. The real electrode area was 0.38 cm 2 , which was determined using electrochemical method based on mass transfer processes. 14 The known coverage for closed packed monolayer of C 60 is 1.9 × 10 -10 mol/cm 2 . 15 The voltammetric responses of the C 60 SAM at three different scan rates are shown in Figure 3 . As expected for the 958 Chemistry Letters 2000
Background: The treatment of leishmaniasis with pentavalent antimonials is problematic because of their toxicity. Investigations of potentially active molecules are important to discover less toxic drugs that are viable economic alternatives for the treatment of leishmaniasis. Thiosemicarbazones are a group of molecules that are known for their wide versatility and biological activity. In the present study, we examined the antileishmania activity, mechanism of action, and biochemical alterations produced by a novel molecule, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde thiosemicarbazone (BZTS), derived from S-limonene against Leishmania amazonensis.
6-Acetylamino- and -benzoylamino-9-arylidenedeoxyvasicinones were synthesized by reaction of 6-amino(3), -acetylamino- (4), and -benzoylamino- (5) -deoxyvasicinones (DOV) with aromatic aldehydes and furfurol in glacial acetic acid. It was shown that the amino group of 6-aminodeoxyvasicinone underwent acylation upon reaction with aldehydes to form 6-acetylamino-DOV, which reacted with aldehydes to form 9-arylidene derivatives. Carrying out this condensation in toluene, o-xylene, and ethanol produced a mixture of condensation products at the 6-amino- and -CH 2 -groups. It was found that condensati on of 3 with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde in pyridine formed exclusively the Schiff bases. Methods for preparing 6-nitrodeoxyvasicinone and for its reduction were improved.
L-proline amides derived from various chiral beta-amino alcohols that bear substituents with various electron natures at their stereogenic centers are prepared and evaluated for catalyzing the direct Aldol reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with acetone. Catalysts with strong electron-withdrawing groups are found to exhibit higher catalytic activity and enantioselectivity than their analogues with electron-donating groups. The presence of 2 mol % catalyst 4g significantly catalyzes the direct Aldol reactions of a wide range of aldehydes with acetone and butanone, to give the beta-hydroxy ketones with very high enantioselectivities ranging from 96% to >99% ee. High diastereoselectivity of 95/5 was observed for the anti Aldol product from the reaction of cyclohexanone, and excellent enantioselectivity of 93% ee was provided for anti Aldol product from the reaction of cyclopentanone.
With the standard conditions in hand, we explored the scope of the o-and p-nitrobenzyl group cleavage reactions with various substrates (Table 2) . o-and p-Nitrobenzyl protected substrates were easily prepared by a variety of methods, including reductive amination, simple alkylation, EDCI coupling, and acylation. The o-nitrobenzyl group on a highly functionalized communesin F intermediate 5 was smoothly cleaved under our standard conditions in good yield (entry 1). 5 p-Nitrobenzyl groups on amide 7 and lactam 9 were also cleaved in moderate yields (entries 2 and 3). The p-nitrobenzyl group on urea 11 was also successfully cleaved and methyl 4-nitrobenzoate was isolated as a by-product (entry 4). An attempt to remove the p-nitrobenzyl group on secondary carbamate 13 proved unsuccessful (entry 5). Additionally, removal of the p-nitrobenzyl group on amine 15 was facile, furnishing aniline 16 in 65% yield (entry 6). Interestingly, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde was isolated as a by-product in this reaction, presumably resulting from the oxidation reaction at the benzylic position by oxygen dissolved in the solution. Furthermore, we successfully removed the p-nitrobenzyl groups from ethers 17 and 19 in moderate yields (entries 7 and 8). This work offers a one-step alternative to previous work by the Kusumoto group. 8 In the cases of deprotection reactions from urea 11 and ether 17, the corresponding hemiaminal ether and acetal intermediates were observed (see ref. 9). It is important to note that these deprotection conditions are compatible with free hydroxyl groups, aminals, aryl bromides, methyl carbamates, silyl ethers, and Boc groups present on the substrates.
Abstract New organotin(IV) complexes of the general formula R SnCl,4-n.L [where n = 3, R = CH3 or C6 H5, n = 2, R = C6 H5L = Schiff bases derived from the condensation of thiosemicarbazide with acetophenone (L-1), 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (L-2), glyoxal (L-3), 5-chlorosalicylaldehyde (L-4), cyclohexanone (L-5), 2-hydroxy-1-naphthaldehyde (L-6), 2-methoxybenzaldehyde (L-7), 4-methoxy-benzaldehyde (L-8), furfuraldehyde (L-9), salicylaldehyde (L-10) and benzylmethylketone (L-11)J have been synthesized and characterized by elemental analyses, conductance measurements, electronic, infra-red, far-infra-red, 1H NMR and Sri Mossbauer spectral studies. Thermal studies of some of the complexes have been carried out using TG, DTG, DTA techniques. Mass loss considerations at main decomposition stages indicate conversion of the complexes to tin(II) sulphide. A distorted octahedral structure has been proposed for all the complexes. The complexes have also been tested against various pathogenic bacteria and fungi. A few comp...
Starting from essential α-amino acids, four new benzo[ d ]imidazole and alkyl-chain-substituted primary amines were synthesized. The reaction sequence involves activation of the Boc-amino acid carboxylic acid, reaction with o -phenylenediamine, and subsequent cyclization to benzo[ d ]imidazole. N-Methylation and final Boc group removal afforded four new primary amines. The synthesized amines were preliminarily applied as organocatalysts in an asymmetric version of the aldol reaction between 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and acetone/cyclohexanone, achieving chemical yields of 40–64% and ee and de values up to 65 and 96%, respectively.
The refined (AUS concept, CCl4, external ref.) 1H NMR method provided association constants K and approximate complex shifts IK for stacking complexes of aromatic hydrocarbons D with A when A is 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (1) or is related to 1. D covers the benzene ring of A but torsionally vibrating substituents in A influence topology and K. In the absence of D, vibrations of A can be slowed by low temperatures making A signals go downfield in accord with an increased planarity of A. Vibration of CHO (a dipole) in complexes of 1 with benzene B or toluene T is made non-symmetric by interactions with the quadrupole of D. The large naphthalene (N) hinders vibrations thus enhancing the contact interface by a more planar 1 whose intramolecular ::: deshielding of protons is increased providing small IK values. Aldehyde 1 forms complexes both with T and with its stacking dimer T2 since IK values for 1–T are significantly greater than for 1–B. Complexing with T2 is not found when the molecular dimensions of A allow a dipole–dipole interaction with T as in face-to-face complexes of 1-ethyltheobromine or of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (7). Different protons give slightly different values of K for 7–T and this points to an isomeric edge-on complex with both T and T2 where K for the two edge-on protons (shortest distance to D) is the sum ::: of the binary K and the small K for the the ternary (7 + T2) complex. Compound 7 and 1,3,5-trimethylbenzene show some of the effect described for 1–N.
12À16 One study did report that salting-out enhanced the aldol reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with cyclohexanone in the presence of a catalyst. 18 The goal of this study was to measure the solubility of 2,4-DNBA and 2,6-DNBA in seawater over a range of salinity encompassing most coastal waters and at various temperatures.
Abstract Different l-proline derivatives were investigated as organocatalysts for the aldol condensation reaction between acetone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, in a conventional organic solvent (DMSO), in supercritical carbon dioxide, and in mixtures of this solvent and 1-allyl-3-alkyllimidazolium chlorides ionic liquids. The catalysts evaluated were: (S)-pyrrolidine-2-carboxylic acid (l-proline), (R)-thiazolidine-4-carboxylic acid (l-thioproline), (2S,4R)-4-[dimethyl(phenyl)silyl]oxy-pyrrolidine-2-carboxylic acid (dimethylphenylsilyloxy-l-proline), (2S,4R)-4-(tert-butyldimethylsilyl)oxy-pyrrolidine-2-carboxylic acid (butyldimethylsilyloxy-l-proline), and (2S,3R,4R,5S,6R)-6-(acetoxymethyl)-3-[(S)-pyrrolidine-2-carboxamido]-tetrahydro-2H-pyran-2,4,5-triyl triacetate (peracetylated glucosamine-l-proline). One of the catalysts tested, the tert-butyldimethylsilyloxy-l-proline, was very effective, allowing lower reaction times, resulting in better yields and enantiomeric excesses than l-proline itself, both in organic solvent (DMSO) and in sc-CO2 or a mixture of sc-CO2 and ionic liquids. The use of the ionic liquid resulted in better yields and enantiomeric excesses in sc-CO2. The other catalysts tested were not as effective, resulting in yields and enantiomeric excesses similar or inferior to the ones obtained with l-proline.
A novel aldo-keto reductase (AKR) from Escherichia coli has been cloned, expressed and purified. This protein, YghZ, is distantly related (<40%) to mammalian aflatoxin dialdehyde reductases of the aldo-keto reductase AKR7 family and to potassium channel β-subunits in the AKR6 family. The enzyme has been placed in a new AKR family (AKR14), with the designation AKR14A1. Sequences encoding putative homologues of this enzyme exist in many other bacteria. The enzyme can reduce several aldehyde and diketone substrates, including the toxic metabolite methylglyoxal. The Km for the model substrate 4-nitrobenzaldehyde is 1.06 mM and for the endogenous dicarbonyl methylglyoxal it is 3.4 mM. Overexpression of the recombinant enzyme in E. coli leads to increased resistance to methylglyoxal. It is possible that this enzyme plays a role in the metabolism of methylglyoxal, and can influence its levels in vivo.
It was shown that the process of dynamic sorption concentration of organic compounds of different natures on hydrophobic sorbents can be described in terms of the linear model of sorption dynamics. Using the model, the thermodynamic (distribution coefficient) and kinetic (mass-transfer coefficient) parameters of sorption were calculated. Optimum conditions were determined for the concentration of phenol on highly crosslinked polystyrene and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde N,N-dimethylhydrazone on silica chemically modified with hexadecyl groups from aqueous solutions.
Hydride Meisenheimer adducts, prepared by the reaction of 1,3,5-trinitrobenzene or 2,4-dinitroaniline with tetrahydridoborate ions, can transfer hydride to a range of quinones in dimethyl sulphoxide solution. Rate constants are reported for the 1,3,5-trinitrobenzene adduct and tetrachloro-1,4-benzoquinone, tetrabromo-1,4-benzoquinone, and 2,6-dichloro-1,4-benzoquinone, and for the 2,4-dinitroaniline adduct with 1,4-benzoquinone. The rates increase with increasing reduction potential of the quinone. In all cases the hydroquinones formed are slowly oxidised back to quinones.There are indications that the formation of the products of the hydride transfer is preceded by formation of a species having a low-intensity absorption maximum at > 700 nm, which is tentatively ascribed to a charge-transfer complex.4-Nitrobenzaldehyde reacts with the hydride adduct of 1,3,5-trinitrobenzene at a much lower rate.All the reactions observed are characterised by low energies of activation (in the range 36–51 kJ mol–1) and large negative entropies of activation.
The refined 1 H NMR method (AUS concept, CCl 4 ) provided association constants K and approximate complex shifts IK for complexes of nitroaromatics A with aromatic hydrocarbons D. 5-Nitrofurfural (1) and benzene (B) or toluene (T) form syn-1B or syn-1T, respectively; a proton dependence of K indicates about 10% anti complexes. The dimer T 2 of T additionally yields some 1T 2 since IK values are 29-34% higher than for 1B. With naphthalene (N) or phenanthrene all protons of 1 provide the same K. Picrylacetone (2) and B form 2B and at least one 2BB adduct; published parameters of 2B and 2BB are inconsistent. 2 and N or M (1,3,5-trimethylbenzene) form only 1:1 complexes. All results are in accord with CH 2 COMe standing perpendicular to picryl. 2,4-Dinitrophenylacetone (3) in a rather flat conformation coordinates with a single stacking N centred over C-6; 3 yields two isomeric stacking complexes 3B and at least one edge-on 3B complex. 2-Chloro-5-nitropyridine (5) forms stacking complexes under repulsion of D by the ring N. In contrast to 1 and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (6) 1,4-dinitrobenzene (7) and T form only a 1:1 complex that is stabilized by dipole-dipole attraction. Equal and unequal shielding of proton pairs (ortho or meta) in complexes of type 6B is discussed.
In addition to selecting a simple linear correlation to E 1 NAC as most appropriate model for developing a QSAR, we chose to focus on one reductant, Fe(II)P, as a model system for QSAR calibration. This choice was made to take advantage of the availability of existing data for nonenergetic model compounds and the simplicity of performing and analyzing experiments Calculated values were determined with density functional theory (DFT) using the 6-311++G(2d,2p) basis set with the specified exchange correlation functionals and solvation models. b Abbreviations: nitrobenzene (NB), 2-methylnitrobenzene (2-CH 3 -NB), 3-methylnitrobenzene (3-CH 3 -NB), 4-methylnitrobenzene (4-CH 3 -NB), 3-chloronitrobenzene (3-Cl-NB), 4-chloronitrobenzene (4-Cl-NB), 4-nitroaniline (4-NH 2 -NB), 3-acetylnitrobenzene (3-COCH 3 -NB), 4-acetylnitrobenzene (4-COCH 3 -NB), 1,2-dinitrobenzene (1,2-DNB), 1,3-dinitrobenzene (1,3-DNB), 1,4-dinitrobenzene (1,4-DNB), 2,4-dinitrotoluene (2,4-DNT), 2,6-dinitrotoluene (2,6-DNT), 2,4,6-trinitrotoluene (TNT), 2-nitrobenzaldehyde (2-CHO), 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (4-CHO), 4-nitrobenzyl alcohol (4-CH 2 OH), 2-amino-4,6-dinitrotoluene (2-ADNT), 4-amino-2,5-dinitrotoluene (4-ADNT), 2,4-diamino-6-nitrotoluene (2,4-DANT).
Abstract: Different l -proline derivatives were investigated as organocatalysts for the aldol condensation reaction between acetone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, in a conventional organic solvent (DMSO), in supercritical carbon dioxide, and in mixtures of this solvent and 1-allyl-3-alkyllimidazolium chlorides ionic liquids. The catalysts evaluated were:
In this work, the use of l -proline derivatives as organocatalysts for the aldol condensation reaction between acetone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde ( Scheme 1 ), in sc-CO 2 and in biphasic systems containing sc-CO 2 and ionic liquids derived from imidazole (1-allyl-3-alkyl-imidazolium chlorides) was investigated. l -Proline was used as a control, in order to compare the results of this work with those reported previously in the literature [ 17 ] .
Abstract A class of novel 2-aryl-3-(1,3,4-thiadiazolyl)-6(8)-methyl-1,3-benzoxazines was prepared by reactions of 2-methyl-6-((1,3,4-thiadiazolylamino)methyl)phenols or 4-methyl-2-((1,3,4-thiadiazolylamino)methyl)phenols and 2- or 4-nitrobenzaldehyde in the presence of TMSCl in refluxing toluene. The electron-donating methyl group on the benzene ring played an essential role on the reactivity of the substituted phenols, which was proved by DFT calculation. The fungicidal activity of the resultant products were also preliminarily evaluated, most of which displayed moderate to good fungicidal activity. Especially, compound 6f showed 98.0% activity against Sclerotonia sclerotiorum and Botrytis cinerea at concentration of 25 μg/mL.
A procedure has been developed for the determination of unsymmetrical dimethylhydrazine (UDMH) based on precolumn derivatization with glyoxal and determination of the produced derivative, mono-1,1-dimethylhydrazone of glyoxal, by reversed-phase HPLC (RP-HPLC) with UV detection at 305 nm. It has been demonstrated that the reaction of UDMH with an excess of glyoxal in solution quantitatively yields one stable product within 20 min at 25°C at pH 3.5. To increase the sensitivity of UDMH determination it has been proposed to perform solid-phase extraction preconcentration of the derivative from a 25-mL sample portion on cartridges containing Strata SDB-L polymer adsorbent. The analytical range of UDMH determination in water is 0.5–10000 μg/L or 0.01–20 μg/L using preconcentration. The relative standard deviations of UDMH determination (n = 3) do not exceed 0.12 and 0.25 without and with preconcentration, respectively. The accuracy of UDMH determination is confirmed by the analysis of spiked samples and by RP-HPLC determination with preliminary derivatization with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde as independent method.
The type of mass transfer in the sorption of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde N,N-dimethylhydrazone (BDH) on silica chemically modified with hexadecyl groups was determined using the linear model of sorption dynamics, and distribution and mass transfer coefficients of hydrazone were calculated. Optimal conditions of the dynamic sorption preconcentration and desorption of BDH and its subsequent determination by reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography were proposed. The detection limit of the compound for preconcentration from a sample of 100 mL was 1 μg/L.
Two sensitive color reactions of isoniazid are described. They are based on the formation of hydrazone Schiff bases when isoniazid is reacted with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde or pyridoxal. Linear curves were obtained with both reagents when absorbance values were plotted against concentrations.
The pursuit of efficient hydrogenation nanocatalysts with a desirable selectivity toward intricate substrates is state-of-the-art research but remains a formidable challenge. Herein, we report a series of novel PdCdx nanocubes (NCs) for ultraselective hydrogenation reactions with flexible tuning features. Obtaining a desirable conversion level of the substrates (e.g., 4-nitrophenylacetylene (NPA), 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (NBAD), and 4-nitrostyrene (NS)) and competitive selectivity for all potential hydrogenation products have been achieved one by one under optimized hydrogenation conditions. The performance of these PdCdx NCs displays an evident dependence on both the composition and the use of Cd and a need for a distinct hydrogen source (H2 or HCOONH4). Additionally, for the selectivity of hydrogen to be suitably high, the morphology of the NCs has a very well-defined effect. Density functional theory calculations confirmed the variation of adsorption energy for the substrate and hydrogenation products by c...
Abstract Organo-catalyzed aldol condensation of 2-hydroxyacetophenone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde underwent regio- and enantioselective cyclization via intramolecular 5 -exo-trigonal cyclization to give 4-nitroaryl-3-benzofuranones. The product formation indicated that the proline bases (organocatalysts) suppressed the effect of carbonyl group by iminium ion formation and hence Michael addition is not possible. The conjugation effect moved toward 4-nitroaryl moiety suitable for 5 -exo-trig cyclization (Baldwin’s rule). Thus, the non-equilibrating intermediates (NEIs) which gave in enantio-enriched 3-benzofuranones. A high enantioselectivity (80–96.6%) was obtained with ( S )-pyrrolidinyl-tetrazole V under a metal-free condition.
Materials. p-Toluenesulfonic acid monohydrate was purchased from Alfa Aesar. All other chemicals used were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich. Methyl methacrylate (MMA), ethyl methacrylate (EMA), n butyl methacrylate (n-BuMA), tert-butyl methacrylate ( t BuMA) and lauryl methacrylate (LMA) were filtered through a basic aluminium oxide column prior to use. 4-Nitrobenzaldehyde was filtered through a silica column prior to use. All other reagents were used without further purification.
Abstract Exploring and controlling chemical reactions in compartments opens new platforms for designing bioinspired catalysts and energy-autonomous systems. Aqueous polymer networks or hydrogels serve as a perfect model for biological tissues, allowing systematic investigations of chemical transformations in compartments. Herein, we report the synthesis of a versatile, colloidal microgel catalyst containing covalently bound l -proline as an organocatalyst. The key finding of our work is that the catalytic activity can be tuned by adjusting the distribution of the organocatalyst in the microgel network as well as the properties of the solvent. We demonstrate that l -proline groups integrated into microgels enable the reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and cyclohexanone in a heterogeneous reaction mixture in which free l -proline is not active. By controlling the localization of the l -proline groups within the microgel network (core or corona), the rate of the aldol reaction in homogenous and heterogeneous reaction mixtures can be modulated. Furthermore, microgels with covalently attached catalysts can be recycled and reused in sequential catalytic runs without deterioration of the catalyst performance in terms of activity and selectivity. The internal structure of the microgel in heterogeneous reaction mixtures was studied by computer simulations.
Saturated aqueous solutions of various common salts were examined for their effect on aqueous aldol reactions catalysted by a highly active C2-symmetric diprolinamide organocatalyst developed in our laboratory. With respect to the aldol reaction between cyclohexanone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, deionised water was always a superior medium to salt solutions though some correlation to increasing anion size and depression in enantiomeric excess could be observed. Additionally, the complete inhibition of catalyst activity observed when employing tap water could be alleviated by the inclusion of ethylenediaminetetraacetate (EDTA) into the aqueous media prior to reaction initiation. Extension of these reaction conditions demonstrated that these ionic effects vary on a case-to-case basis depending on the ketone/aldehyde combination.
Abstract In this work, the solubility of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde in methanol, ethanol, isopropanol, n -butanol, acetone, ethyl acetate, acetonitrile, 2-butanone, N , N -dimethylformamide, n -propanol and toluene was determined with the isothermal saturation method at the temperatures ranging from (273.15 to 313.15) K under atmosphere pressure. The mole fraction solubility increased with increasing temperature and obeyed the following order from high to low in the selected solvents except for acetonitrile: N , N -dimethylformamide > acetone > 2-butanone > ethyl acetate > methanol > toluene > ethanol > n -propanol > n -butanol > isopropanol. The results correlated with four models, which corresponded to the Apelblat equation, λh equation, Wilson model and NRTL model. The largest value of root-mean-square deviation ( RMSD ) was 11.53 × 10 −4 , and relative average deviation ( RAD ), 2.36%. The four thermodynamic models could all be employed to correlate the mole fraction solubility of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde in the selected solvents under studied conditions. In addition, the mixing Gibbs energy, mixing enthalpy, mixing entropy, activity coefficient at infinitesimal concentration ( γ 1 ∞ ) and reduced excess enthalpy ( H 1 E, ∞ ) were computed. The mixing process of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde in the solvents was spontaneous and endothermic. The acquired solubility and thermodynamic studies would be very helpful for optimizing the purification process and further study of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde.
An exhaustive study of the polymorphism found for aggregates and hydrogels of an L-proline based hydrogelator under different preparation conditions is undertaken. The effect of heating temperature, aging time, ultrasound and pH switching on the self-assembly in water has been studied. WAXD analysis of the freeze-dried materials revealed the presence of four polymorphs, three of which could be isolated under specific conditions. Polymorphic differences have been studied by DSC, FTIR, circular dichroism and electron microscopy. Furthermore, the catalytic activity of each polymorph has been tested for the direct aldol reaction between cyclohexanone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde revealing differences in the reaction rates that could be attributed to differences in molecular packing and aggregate morphology among them. The current study highlights the role that polymorphism plays in the application of functional supramolecular soft materials.
Chlorination of α-hydroxyphosphonate anthracen-9-yl(5,5-dimethyl-2-oxo-2λ 5 -1,3,2-dioxaphosphinan-2-yl)methanol ( 11) using thionyl chloride unexpectedly yields 10-(5,5-dimethyl-2-oxo-2λ 5 -1,3,2-dioxaphosphinan-2-ylmethylene)anthracen-9(10 H)-one ( 13), 2-(10-chloroanthracen-9-ylmethyl)-5,5-dimethyl-2λ 5 -1,3,2-dioxaphosphinan-2-one ( 14), and 10-(5,5-dimethyl-2-oxo-2λ 5 -1,3,2-dioxaphosphinan-2-ylmethylene)-9,10-dihydroanthracen-9-ol ( 15) in addition to 2-[anthracen-9-yl(chloro)methyl]-5,5-dimethyl-2λ 5 -1,3,2-dioxaphosphinan-2-one ( 12). The reaction of 2-chloro-5,5-dimethyl-1,3,2-dioxaphosphinane ( 5) with 9-anthraldehyde leads to 2-chloro-1,1-dimethylethyl hydrogen 10-(5,5-dimethyl-2-oxo-2λ 5 -1,3,2-dioxaphosphinan-2-ylmethylene)-4a,9,9a,10-tetrahydroanthracen-9-ylphosphonate ( 20) in addition to 12. Bromination of 11 with phosphorus tribromide affords the 10-bromoanthracen-9-yl product, 2-(10-bromoanthracen-9-ylmethyl)-5,5-dimethyl-2λ 5 -1,3,2-dioxaphosphinan-2-one ( 22). Reaction of 12 with 4-chloro- or 4-nitrobenzaldehyde in the presence of sodium hydride affords the products, 9-(2-arylvinyl)anthracenes 23 and 24 in an uncommon Horner-Wadsworth-Emmons-type reaction. Compound 22 underwent the normal Horner-Wadsworth-Emmons reaction with benzaldehydes or ferrocenecarbaldehyde to afford disubstituted alkenes. One of these alkenes, ( E)-9-bromo-10-[2-(4-bromophenyl)vinyl]anthracene ( 26), undergoes Sonogashira coupling with terminal alkynes to afford the conjugated alkynes ( E)-9-bromo-10-[2-(4-ethynylphenyl)vinyl]anthracenes 30- 32 in moderate yields. X-ray crystal structures of 12- 15, 20, 23 and ( E)-9-bromo-10-[2-(4-methoxyphenyl)vinyl]anthracene ( 27) have been determined.
A new series of transition metal complexes of Cu(II), Ni(II), Co(II), Mn(II), Zn(II), VO(IV), Hg(II) and Cd(II) have been synthesized from the Schiffbase (H 2 L) derived from 4-aminoantipyrine, 3-hydroxy-4-nitrobenzaldehyde and 2-aminophenol. The structural features have been arrived from their elemental analyses, magnetic susceptibility, molar conductance, mass, IR, UV-Vis, 1 H NMR and ESR spectral studies. The data show that the complexes have composition of ML type. The UV-Vis, magnetic susceptibility and ESR spectral data of the complexes suggest a square planar geometry around the central metal ion except VO(IV) complex which has square-pyramidal geometry. The redox behavior of copper and vanadyl complexes has been studied by cyclic voltammetry. The minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) values of the. investigated compounds indicate that the complexes have higher antimicrobial activity than the free ligand. The nuclease activity of the above metal complexes shows that only copper and nickel complexes cleave DNA through redox chemistry.
interaction between acidic and basic sites. Finally, as strongly basic catalysts such as 1 mol% Cs 2 O/MgO showed significantly increased propylene selectivity, 24 an E1cB mechanism different from the one leading to the dehydrogenation product acetaldehyde was considered. In this case, a surface alkoxide is formed first, after which a strong basic site abstracts a proton in β-position to the O atom; O elimination finally yields the alkene. León et al., in turn, ascribed the formation of ethylene during ethanol conversion over hydrotalcite-based mixed oxides to either strong basic sites or strong acidic ones. 25 It is worth noting that both the E2 and E1cB mechanisms require cooperative action between acidic and basic sites, meaning that not only active site number and strength, but also proximity is key to selective ethanol conversion. Finally, ether formation also involves cooperative action of acid and basic sites and is thought to proceed via the same E2 mechanism proposed for ethylene formation. 17 It has also been proposed that (moderate) acid sites alone catalyze the formation of (diisopropyl) ethers over TiO 2 , ZrO 2 and their mixed oxides. 26 The next, productive aldol condensation step of the mechanism shown in Scheme 1 is usually reported to be base-catalyzed, 27 but cooperativity between acidic and basic sites has also here been shown to be beneficial. Zeidan and Davis, for instance, showed this for the cross-aldolization of acetone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde by silica functionalized with amines and acidic functional groups. 28 Climent et al. also reported on the beneficial effect of having both acid and basic sites in the aldol condensation of benzaldehyde and heptanal.
Ethyl 3-iodobenzoate(1) was prepared by reaction of 3-iodobenzoic acid with anhydrous ethanol in sulfuric acid.Then this compound reacted with 80% hydrazine hydrate to get 3-iodobenzoylhydrazine(2).And then the reaction of compound(2) with 4-methylbenzaldehyde,2-chlorobenzaldehyde,4-chlorobenzaldehyde,4-hydroxybenzaldehyde,2,4-dichlorobenzaldehyde,4-methoxybenzaldehyde 3-nitrobenzaldehyde,4-nitrobenzaldehyde and dimethylaminobenzaldehyde respectively produced corresponding hydrazones(3a—3i).Then 3a—3i respectively cyclodehydrated with propanoic anhydride to afford 3-N-propanoyl-2-aryl-5-(3-iodophenyl)-1,3,4-oxadiazolines(4a—4i),structures of 4a—4i were confirmed by IR spectroscopy.
Abstract Thermal and magnetic dual-responsive l -proline nanohybrids ( l -Pro-based- TMNHs) were prepared by grafting thermal-responsive thiol-terminated P(NIPAM- co- l -ProlA)-b-POEGA-SH (PNLPO-SH) to vinyl-functionalized Fe3O4@SiO2-MPS through the thiol-ene click chemistry. The catalytic activity, selectivity and recyclability of l -Pro-based-TMNHs were evaluated in a model asymmetric aldol reaction of cyclohexanone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde in water. Thermal responsiveness of the l -Pro-based-TMNHs induced self-assembly to produce a hydrophobic microenvironment in aqueous medium for catalyzing asymmetric aldol reaction. The catalytic performance can be tuned by the molar ratio of PNLPO-SH to Fe3O4@SiO2-MPS, and l -Pro-based-TMNHs-2 with a ratio of 1:6 exhibited best catalytic activity and selectivity. At 50 °C and 5 mol% catalyst loading, 94% conv., 81/19 anti/syn and 95% ee were obtained. On the other hand, magnetic responsiveness of the l -Pro-based-TMNHs facilitates catalyst separation and reuse in the presence of an external magnetic field, and these results indicated no loss of both catalytic activity and selectivity associated with the course of recycling.
Abstract Acid–base bifunctionalized heterogeneous catalysts may be capable of exhibiting reactivity not achievable with homogeneous catalysts. We investigated the effect of p K a of the acid component of mesoporous solids containing acid–base bifunctionality on their catalytic ability toward aldol condensation between 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and acetone. We found that higher levels of aldol product conversion were obtained when weaker acid components (phosphoric, carboxylic vs sulfonic) were used, an indication of the importance of the equilibrium between free acid and free base and the resulting neutralized ion pair in the catalytic capability of acid–base functionalized materials. A catalyst containing primary amine groups in combination with carboxylic acid groups (with similar chemical functionalities to proline) was found to be a superior catalyst in this aldol reaction with a number of different electrophilic components.
New 30-membered achiral and chiral polyaza macrocyclic ligands, L1 and L2 were synthesized directly from [3 + 3] condensation of phthalic dicarboxaldehyde with cis- and (1R,2R)-diaminocyclohexane, respectively. The trimeric macrocyclic structures were confirmed by electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (ESI-MS), 1H NMR, 13C NMR spectroscopy and elemental analysis. Potentiometry was used to determine the protonation constants of the ligands. UV–vis spectrophotometric titration was employed to investigate the coordination and conformational properties of the chiral ligand (L2). Direct enantioselective aldol reaction has been successfully performed using 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and acetone in the presence of the chiral macrocycle and its zinc(II) complexes as catalysts.
Abstract This work focuses on the effect of electrolyte cations on the behaviour of a probe photocatalytic system comprising 2-propanol and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (O2NC6H4CHO) as the hole and electron scavenger, respectively. Photo-reduction of the latter occurs via a stepwise pathway involving 4-aminobenzaldehyde (H2NC6H4CHO) as the stable intermediate and 4-aminobenzyl alcohol (H2NC6H4CH2OH) as the final product. 2-propanol photo-oxidation produces protons at the surface. The complete reduction of O2NC6H4CHO to H2NC6H4CH2OH needs photo-charging. Excess negative charge is compensated by cations adsorption and by lattice insertion. In the case of bulky K+ and TEA+ (tetraethylammonium ions) that apparently are not inserted, protons are inserted instead. In contrast, Li+ (and to a lesser degree Na+) ions favour selective reduction of O2NC6H4CHO to H2NC6H4CHO. Electrochemical measurements in the dark provide evidence of a strong interaction of 2-propanol with the surface and of the influence exerted by cations thereon. Additionally, electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spin trapping spectroscopy gives information about the formation of radicals intermediates from the alcohol photo-oxidation. Repeated illumination/dark runs showed that alkoxy (R-O ) radicals always formed when the electrolyte contains K+ or TEA+. Conversely, in prolonged experiments, Li+ favours the formation of hydroxyalkyl radicals (R-C HOH), which indicates a non-dissociative interaction of 2-propanol with the surface. This weaker interaction can be reasonably ascribed to the know ability of TiO2 inserted Li+ to cause the formation of a new phase of the type LixTiO2.
Abstract A chiral zirconium-based catalyst, DUT-67-Pro containing 8-connected Zr6-clusters is obtained by post synthetic functionalization of Zr6O6(OH)2(TDC)4(HCOO)2 (DUT-67, TDC = 2,5-thiophenedicarboxylate) with the chiral monocarboxylic acid, L -proline. 13C and 15N solid state MAS and DNP NMR studies of DUT-67-Pro confirm the integration of L -proline into the porous framework. The chiral MOF catalyst exhibits an excellent catalytic activity at low temperature (298 K) with an unprecedented syn-(S,S)-product selectivity in an asymmetric aldol addition reaction of cyclohexanone to 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (yield = 95%, ee = 96%). Comparative catalytic studies using a molecular Zr6-cluster model compound indicate the Zr6-moiety to be responsible for this inverse diastereoselectivity compared to well-established L -proline organocatalysis and a mechanism is proposed to explain the Zr6-cluster-mediated syn-selectivity. Masking residual acidic active sites in the cluster of the framework was found to be a key prerequisite to achieve the high enantioselectivity. The purely heterogeneous catalytic system based on DUT-67-Pro is highly stable and can be recycled several times.
This study include the synthesis of the ketonic compound 1 through (the reactance equal moles from morpholine, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, 3-nitro acetophenone) and then the reactance compound 1 with different aromatic amines (4-aminoantipyrine, p-phenylenediamine, 2-aminopyridine) to prepare Schiff bases compounds ( 2-4 ) that contains a set of one or more of groups azomethine (-C=N-) that have been used in preparation of many heterocyclic compounds, that when they reacted with maleic anhydride gives 1,3-oxazepine compounds (a ring with seven atoms) ( 5-7 ) and with phthalic anhydride gives benzo[1,3]oxazepine compounds (a ring with seven atoms) ( 8-10 ), the synthesized compounds were identified using physical and spectral methods (melting points, colour change, thin layer chromatography, infrared spectra, ultraviolet spectra and nuclear magnetic resonance spectra), as biological effectiveness has been measured for some of the prepared compounds.
AbstractA series of valine dipeptide organocatalysts containing a primary amine group and two amide units have been developed and evaluated in the direct asymmetric intermolecular aldol reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and cyclohexanone. When 2,4-dinitrophenol (DNP) was used as an acidic additive, the catalyzed reactions of various aldehydes and ketones gave the corresponding aldol products with moderate to high enantioselectivities (up to 95%) and diastereoselectivities (up to >99/1, anti/syn) in the presence of 3c in brine.Graphical Abstract[IMAGE].
Abstract The compound 3-((ethylthio)(4-nitrophenyl)methyl)-1H-indole was synthesized at room temperature through one-pot three-component reaction from 1H-indole, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, and ethanethiol using hydrated ferric sulfate as a Lewis acid catalyst. The structure was characterised by single crystal XRD, FTIR (4000–400 cm −1 ), FT-Raman (4000–50 cm −1 ) and 1 H and 13 C NMR analysis. The compound crystallizes in the monoclinic with volume 3238.3(9) A 3 . The experimental vibrational data find the theoretical support through anharmonic frequency calculations using DFT/B3LYP level of theory in combination with 6-31G(d,p) basis set. It is observed that the predicted geometry well reproduces the XRD structural parameters. The experimental 1 H and 13 C NMR spectra in CDCl 3 solvent and the simulated spectra predicted using gauge independent atomic orbital (GIAO) approach are also found in agreement with each other. HOMO–LUMO, MEP, atomic charges and various other thermodynamic and NLO properties of the title molecule are also reported in this paper.
Asymmetric alkynylation reactions to mono-, di-, and trisubstituted aromatic aldehydes have been accomplished in good yields and with a range of selectivities. For salicylaldehyde derivatives both the yield and the enantioselectivity of the alkynylation reaction appears to depend not only upon the electron-donating/ electron-withdrawing nature of substituents but also upon their position in the ring relative to the carbonyl. For benzaldehyde derivatives this observation is exemplified with nitrobenzaldehyde wherein asymmetric alkynylation with 3-nitrobenzaldehyde occurs in virtually quantitative yield and enantioselectivity. In contrast our attempts at asymmetric alkynylations with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde failed.
A kind of effective asymmetric catalyst(3R,8R,9S)-10,11-dihydro-3.9-oxido-6′-hydroxy-deoxy cinchonine(QD-4) was prepared utilizing cheap quinidine sulfate as starting materials.The structure was confirmed by 1-HNMR and IR.(R)-1,1,1,3,3,3-Hexa fluoropropan-2-yl 2-(hydroxy(4-nitrophenyl)methyl)acrylate was prepared by asymmetric Baylis-Hillman reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and 1,1,1,3,3,3-hexafluoropropan-2-yl acrylate using(3R,8R,9S)-10,11-dihydro-3.9-oxido-6′-hydroxy-deoxy cinchonine as catalysis.
7-Azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane-2-carboxylic acid 11 was prepared in enantiopure form, and its catalytic potential in the direct aldol reaction between acetone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde was assessed. The bicyclic system was found to be more selective than its monocyclic analogue beta-proline 5b. A comparative density functional theory study of proline 1, beta-proline 5b, and 11 in the latter reaction revealed the origin of the improved enantioselectivity of 11 over 5b. The geometry of the carboxylic acid group in the transition states, which depended critically on pyrrolidine ring conformation, was found to play a key role.
Abstract Two optical pure m -dimethylamino substituted inherently chiral calix[4]arene derivatives 8a and 8b bearing an l -prolinamido group have been synthesized by two routes, and structurally studied by the usual spectroscopic methods and X-ray crystallographic analysis. It was found that both of 8a and 8b could be utilized as bifunctional organocatalysts to efficiently promote the aldol reactions between aromatic aldehydes and ketones in the presence of acetic acid. Especially, with 8a as the catalyst, the reaction between 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and cyclopentanone at −20 °C gave the anti -aldol product up to 94% ee, while the anti -aldol product in up to 94:6 dr and 79% ee was obtained when 4-cyanobenzaldehyde was used as the aldol donor. Moreover, it was also demonstrated that the inherently chiral calixarene skeleton with ( cS )-conformation in 8a was identified as the matched configuration of the stereogenic elements, and the inherently chiral moiety might play an important role in helping to stereocontrol the reaction.
1, 1-Diacetates are useful protective groups for aldehyde [1]. Relative acid stability of 1, 1-diacetates compared to the corresponding acetal [2], is an interesting feature of such 1, 1-diacetates as carbonyl protecting groups. These are also important building blocks for the synthesis of dienes for Diels-Alder cycloaddition reaction [3]. Usually they are synthesized [4] from aldehydes and acetic anhydride using strong proton acids and Lewis acids as catalysts, typically such as sulfuric acid [5], phosphoric acid [6], methanesulfonic acid [6], Nafion-H [7], zinc chloride [8], ferric chloride [2], iodine [9] or phosphorous trichloride [10]. These methods have not been entirely satisfactory owing to drawbacks such as low yields (4% in the case of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde [10]), long reaction time (up to 120 h in the case of 2-furaldehyde [10]) and tedious work-up. In recent years, β-zeolite [11], sulfated zirconia [12], montmorillonite clays [13], expansive graphite [14], trimethylchlorosilane and sodium iodide [15], scandium triflate [16], N-bromo succinimide [17], and PVC-FeCl3 [18] or TiO2 / SO4 solid super acid [19] were employed as catalysts for this purpose to obtain relatively better results. Although some of these methods present a convenient procedure with good to high product yields, most of the currently available methods suffer from strong acidic conditions, or required high temperature and expensive catalyst loading. Therefore the discovery of a novel mild and catalytic protocol for the efficient conversion of aldehydes into 1, 1-diacetates is of general interest. Since the early work of Toda [20], application of solid state organic chemistry has been under intensive investigation and has recently been reviewed [21]. The observations obtained were: a) decreasing reaction time and b) cleaner reaction with easier work-up [20-22]. Here, we report a procedure using P2O5 / SiO2 (Silicaphos for short) as a catalyst for the preparation of 1, 1-diacetates from aldehydes in the absence of a solvent.
A.Armstrong@imperial.ac.uk -Proline Analogues in Organocatalytic Aldol Reactions 7-Azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane-2-carboxylic acid 11 was prepared in enantiopure form and its catalytic potential in the direct aldol reaction between acetone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde assessed. The bicyclic system was found to be more selective than its monocyclic analogue -proline 5b. A comparative Density Functional Theory study of proline 1, -proline 5b and 11 in the latter reaction revealed the origin of the improved enantioselectivity of 11 over 5b. The geometry of the carboxylic acid group in the transition states, which depended critically on pyrrolidine ring conformation, was found to play a key role.
Enantiopure amino acid 11 was prepared and its catalytic potential in the direct aldol reaction between acetone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde assessed. The bicyclic amino acid showed reduced activity compared to its monocyclic analogue -proline but exhibited greater selectivity, although it failed to reach the levels observed with the natural amino acid proline. DFT calculations revealed that -proline reacted via its syn enamine but exhibited no preference for facial selectivity of the aldehyde. Constraining the -proline ring in a bicyclic system led to stabilisation of the anti transition states compared to the syn counterparts. The anti enamine was able to differentiate between the two prochiral faces of the aldehyde, although the facial selectivity was reduced when compared to the proline system. Our studies provide the first computational rationalisation of the poor selectivity of -proline in the classic organocatalytic aldol reaction and show how constraining the pyrrolidine ring can modify the carboxylic acid geometry and contribute towards improving enantioselectivity. We believe that such rigidification strategies can 
The passage of carbon dioxide through a solution of dimethyl acetylenedicarboxylate during the addition of two equivalents of a trialkyl phosphite leads to the formation of an ylide (3) which reacts with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde to give a furan (5) in which the heterocyclic oxygen and one of the β-carbon atoms in the furan ring are derived from the carbon dioxide.
Lanthanum(III) and praseodymium(III) complexes of the type [Ln(L)Cl(H2O)]2 (Ln = La(III) or Pr(III); LH2 = dithiosemicarbazone ligands derived from piperazine dithiosemicarbazide and benzaldehyde, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, and 2-methoxybenzaldehyde) have been synthesized in methanol in the presence of sodium hydroxide. The complexes have been characterized by elemental analyses, molecular weight, molar conductance, electronic absorption, IR, and 1H and 13C NMR spectral studies. Nephelauxetic ratio, covalency parameter, and bonding parameter for these complexes have also been calculated. Thermal studies of the complexes have been carried out using TG, DTG, and DSC techniques. Kinetic parameters, such as apparent activation energy and order of reaction, were determined by the Coats-Redfern graphical method. The heats of reaction for different reaction steps were calculated from DSC curves.
Molecular dynamics simulations are performed to investigate the cooperatively catalyzed aldol condensation between acetone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde on alkylamine (or alkylenamine)-grafted silica surfaces, focusing on the mechanism of the catalytic activation of the acetone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde by the acidic surface silanols followed by the nucleophilic attack of the basic amine functional group toward the activated reactant. From the analysis of the correlations between the catalytically active acid–base sites and reactants, it is concluded that the catalytic cooperativity of the acid–base pair can be affected by two factors: (1) the competition between the silanol and the amine (or enamine) to form a hydrogen bond with a reactant and (2) the flexibility of the alkylamine (or alkylenamine) backbone. Increasing the flexibility of the alkylamine facilitates the nucleophilic attack of the amine on the reactants. From the molecular dynamics simulations, it is found that C3 propylamine and C4 butylamine link...
Pseudomonas sp. strain TW3 is able to metabolize 4-nitrotoluene to 4-nitrobenzoate and toluene to benzoate aerobically via a route analogous to the upper pathway of the TOL plasmids. We report the cloning and characterization of a benzyl alcohol dehydrogenase gene (ntnD) which encodes the enzyme for the catabolism of 4-nitrobenzyl alcohol and benzyl alcohol to 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and benzaldehyde, respectively. The gene is located downstream of the previously reported ntn gene cluster. NtnD bears no similarity to the analogous TOL plasmid XylB (benzyl alcohol dehydrogenase) protein either in its biochemistry, being NAD(P)(+) independent and requiring assay via dye-linked electron transfer, or in its deduced amino acid sequence. It does, however, have significant similarity in its amino acid sequence to other NAD(P)(+)-independent alcohol dehydrogenases and contains signature patterns characteristic of type III flavin adenine dinucleotide-dependent alcohol oxidases. Reverse transcription-PCR demonstrated that ntnD is transcribed during growth on 4-nitrotoluene, although apparently not as part of the same transcript as the other ntn genes. The substrate specificity of the enzyme expressed from the cloned and overexpressed gene was similar to the activity expressed from strain TW3 grown on 4-nitrotoluene, providing evidence that ntnD is the previously unidentified gene in the pathway of 4-nitrotoluene catabolism. Examination of the 14.8-kb region around the ntn genes suggests that one or more recombination events have been involved in the formation of their current organization.
The study on oxidative condensation of 4-nitrotoluene-2-sulfonic acid(NTS)was carried out with three kinds of process conditions.It was found that the reaction included two steps,the influence of the NTS concentration and the alkali concentration to reaction was more notable when NTS oxidized to form 4,4′-dinitrobibenzyl-2,2′-disulfonic acid(DND).However,the influence of temperature to reaction was more notable when DND oxidized to form 4,4′-dinitrostilbene-2,2′-disulfonic acid(DNS).The main by-product 4-nitrobenzaldehyde-2-sulfonic acid(NBS)and 4-nitro-2-sulfobenzoic acid(NSB)could not only be generated by the deep oxidation of the DNS′s bond-breaking as well as direct oxidation of NTS.At the condition of higher temperature and higher NTS concentration,DND and NTS quickly aggregated,which increased the viscosity of the material.So the air was uneven in the system and the oxidation was inadequate in the local area,which easily induced the phenomenon of red material.At the same time,The reaction system after red material became more viscous and aggravated the phenomenon of red material and accelerates over-oxidation of the DNS′s the bond-breaking more seriously and increases more NSB.
The dissertation is divided into two parts : synthesis of fully substituted furans (part I), and other development of new type of organocatalysts and their application in asymmetric catalysis (part II). Part I: Multi substituted furans are great importance for organic synthesis. Novel preparation of tetrasubstituted furans strating from the Michael acceptors 88, tributylphosphine, triethylamine and acyl chlorides 89, is realized according to our protocol. Various highly functional furans cab be prepared in very mild condition (RT) within 1.5-36 h in moderate to yields (32-98%). The reaction mechanism is proposed to undergo the Michael reaction of Bu3P and 88 followed by acylation with 90, deprotonation of the corresponding intermediate 93, and finally an intramolecular Wittig reaction of 91. Part II: Since 2000, the L-proline derivatives are one of the most well-known organocatalysts used in asymmetric reactions. The described new type of organocatalysts , bearing a pyrrolidine and a sulfone or sulfide moiety, are successfully prepared and applied in the asymmetric Michael addition and aldo reactions. After carefully screening the reaction condition (solvent, temperature), the organocatalyst 141 turned out to be the best one for the direct asymmetric Michael addition of cyclohexanone and β-nitrostyrene (98% yield, >99/1 dr, 98% ee). The other two aryl-substituted nitroolefins were examined with our designed catalyst in 40% or 90% yield and with 74/26 dr (30% ee) or 88/12 dr (94% ee), respectively. The reaction acetone or isobutyraldehyde withβ-nitrostyrene gave poor result (76% ee or 52% ee). The application of our catalysts in asymmetric aldol reaction of cyclohexanone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde gave good chemical yield (up to 99%), albeit poor stereoselectivity (56/44-70/30 dr, anti form: 9-51% ee).
Reversible switching between two states of the triangular nanoswitch [Cu(1)](+) was accomplished by alternate addition of 2-ferrocenyl-1,10-phenanthroline (2) and copper(I) ions. The two switching states regulate the binding and release of two distinct catalysts, piperidine and [Cu(2)](+), in a fully interference-free manner and allow alternating on/off switching of two orthogonal catalytic processes. In switching state I, piperidine is released from the nanoswitch and catalyzes a Knoevenagel addition between 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and diethyl malonate (ON-1 and OFF-2), while in state II the released [Cu(2)](+) catalyzes a click reaction between 4-nitrophenylacetylene and benzylazide (OFF-1 and ON-2). Upon addition of one equivalent of 2 to the (OFF-1 and ON-2)-state, both catalytically active processes are shut down (OFF-1 and OFF-2).
A new series of transition metal complexes of Cu(II), Ni(II), Zn(II) and VO(IV), were synthesized from the Schiff base (L) derived from 4-aminoantipyrine, 3-hydroxy-4-nitrobenzaldehyde and acetylacetone. The structural features were arrived from their elemental analyses, magnetic susceptibility, molar conductance, Mass, IR, UV-Vis., 1H NMR and ESR spectral studies. The data show that the complexes have composition of [ML]X type. The UV-Vis., magnetic susceptibility and ESR spectral data of the complexes suggest a square-planar geometry around the central metal ion except for VO(IV) complex which has square-pyramidal geometry. The redox behavior of copper and vanadyl complexes were studied by cyclic voltammetry. The antimicrobial screening tests were also recorded and gave good results in the presence of metal ion in the ligand system. The nuclease activity of the above metal complexes shows that the copper and nickel complexes cleave DNA through redox chemistry, whereas other complexes are not effective.
Abstract : Novel 4,4'-dithiodianil compounds are prepared by reacting 4,4'-dithiodianiline with an aromatic or pyridine aldehyde, such as 4-nitrobenzaldehyde. The novel dithiodianil compounds can be employed for detecting thiol compounds. They react with thiols to yield reaction products which possess a different color from the novel dithiodianil compound itself. The color change obtained in this manner with the novel compounds in many cases is stronger than that obtained with Ellman's reagent frequently employed for detecting thiols. (Author)
Many litter-decay fungi secrete heme-thiolate peroxygenases that oxidize various organic chemicals, but little is known about the role or mechanism of these enzymes. We found that the extracellular peroxygenase of Agrocybe aegerita catalyzed the H2O2-dependent cleavage of environmentally significant ethers, including methyl t-butyl ether, tetrahydrofuran, and 1,4-dioxane. Experiments with tetrahydrofuran showed the reaction was a two-electron oxidation that generated one aldehyde group and one alcohol group, yielding the ring-opened product 4-hydroxybutanal. Investigations with several model substrates provided information about the route for ether cleavage: (a) steady-state kinetics results with methyl 3,4-dimethoxybenzyl ether, which was oxidized to 3,4-dimethoxybenzaldehyde, gave parallel double reciprocal plots suggestive of a ping-pong mechanism (K(m)((peroxide)), 1.99 +/- 0.25 mM; K(m)((ether)), 1.43 +/- 0.23 mM; k(cat), 720 +/- 87 s(-1)), (b) the cleavage of methyl 4-nitrobenzyl ether in the presence of H2(18)O2 resulted in incorporation of 18O into the carbonyl group of the resulting 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, and (c) the demethylation of 1-methoxy-4-trideuteromethoxybenzene showed an observed intramolecular deuterium isotope effect [(k(H)/k(D))(obs)] of 11.9 +/- 0.4. These results suggest a hydrogen abstraction and oxygen rebound mechanism that oxidizes ethers to hemiacetals, which subsequently hydrolyze. The peroxygenase appeared to lack activity on macromolecular ethers, but otherwise exhibited a broad substrate range. It may accordingly have a role in the biodegradation of natural and anthropogenic low molecular weight ethers in soils and plant litter.
However, the structures of acridinediones whose dihydropyridine ring linking two unsymmetrical cyclohexanone rings are rare. Here we report the structure of unsymmetrical acridinedione(I). It was synthesized by the reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehydes, 3-(4-Methoxy-phenylamino)-5,5-dimethyl-cyclohex-2-enone and 1,3-cyclohexanedione in refluxing water.
The azomethine 1 was prepared as described elsewhere [1] . The 4-[4-(4-nitrobenzylideneiminophenylene)phenyleneimino methylidene] phenol (2) was obtained in a similar manner [2] by reacting the azomethine 1 with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde in stoichiometric ratio:
A mixture of 0.8 g (2.88 mmol) 1 and 0.42 g (2.77 mmol) 4-nitrobenzaldehyde was dissolved in 10 mL DMSO. The mixture was stirred under heating at 90 o C for 30 min. The reaction product was isolated by pouring the reaction mixture into water, washing with water and then with methanol. The purity was tested by the thin layer chromatography. IR spectra and elemental analysis confirmed that synthesised compound had the correct structure with a good degree of purity. The azomethine 2 has an orange-ochre powder aspect , yield 80 %. 
Two novel catalytic systems based on the CuII complexes with N-(3,5-dibromo-2-hydroxybenzyl)- and N-(2-hydroxy-3-nitrobenzyl)-(S)-α,α-diphenylprolinols were developed. These systems catalyze the condensation of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with nitromethane to produce S-nitroaldol with maximum enantiomeric excess of >90% (99% yield). The reactions of nitromethane with aliphatic aldehydes give the corresponding products in the yields above 80% and ee > 90%.
Abstract A variety of methylenemalononitriles and ethyl cyanoacrylates derived from both aromatic and heteroaromatic aldehydes were synthesized by Knoevenagel condensation catalysed with native and modified chitosan-based heterogeneous catalysts. The efficiency of our hydrogel organocatalysts, chitosan hydrogel beads and ureidyl-chitosan derivative hydrogel disks, was evaluated as function of pH, temperature and catalyst concentration by considering reaction rates, conversions, E/Z stereoselectivities, and kinetic studies of a model reaction between 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and ethyl cyanoacetate. An unprecedented study by solid state 13 C CP MAS NMR of the employed catalyst when reaction was quenched after a 50% of conversion, has demonstrated that an imine-chitosan intermediate is formed during this process. Analysis of E / Z ethyl cyanoacrylate isomer mixtures for determining the corresponding stereoselectivity was carried out by NMR measuring carbon-proton coupling constants ( 3 J C,H ) using a novel CLIP-HSQMCB experiment. Additionally, DFT calculations let us rationalise the observed E / Z stereoselectivities as well as to evaluate the role of ureidyl moiety on interaction with aldehydes and imine intermediate formation with chitosan derivative.
Abstract The surface of a fused silica and oxidized silicon wafer (SiO2/Si(100)) was treated with (3-aminopropyl)triethoxysilane in solution. The silane coupling agent (SCA) produces multilayers with variable thickness (6-100 A) depending upon the dipping time. The aminosilane layers were allowed to react with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, and formation of the corresponding imine was confirmed by UV-vis spectroscopy. In aqueous medium the imine was easily hydrolyzed to regenerate the amine group and the aldehyde. Surface density of the amine was calculated from the amount of produced 4-nitrobenzaldehyde. Tilt angles of the chromophore, the imine, obtained from the surface density and Asurf, absorbance of the derivatized substrate, are 23-32°.
Monomeric carbonyl reductases (CBRs) are enzymes that catalyze the reduction of many endogenous and xenobiotic carbonyl compounds, including steroids and prostaglandins. There are two monomeric CBR genes in the human genome, cbr1 and cbr3, which exhibit high homology in their amino acid sequences. Human CBR1 (hCBR1) is known as prostaglandin 9-keto reductase and 15-hydroxy dehydrogenase, and regulates the metastasis of cancer cells through the regulation of prostaglandin metabolism. However, there is little information concerning the molecular and enzymatic characteristics of human CBR3 (hCBR3). The present study demonstrated the tissue and cellular localization, and catalytic activity of hCBR3. Semi-quantitative PCR revealed the ubiquitous but lower expression of hCBR3 compared with that of hCBR1. Bacterially expressed hCBR3 exhibited limited catalytic activity toward menadione, 4-benzoylpyridine, and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde. Similar results were obtained when the cell lysates of CBR-overexpressing HEK293 cells were examined. Additionally, neither the prostaglandin 9-keto reductase nor the 15-hydroxy dehydrogenase activities of hCBR3 were significant. Immunofluorescence staining revealed that ectopically expressed hCBR3 proteins were localized in the cytosol of HEK293 cells. These results suggested that hCBR3 and hCBR1 play distinct physiological roles. This study expands our understanding of the relationship between the two monomeric hCBRs and prostaglandin metabolism.
Recently it was reported that lipase B from Candida antarctica (CAL-B) shows catalytic promiscuity in the decarboxylative aldol addition and Knoevenagel reaction between 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (4-NBA) and ethyl acetoacetate. We here provide experimental evidence that CAL-B simply catalyzed hydrolysis of the ester yielding the free acetoacetic acid, which under the reaction conditions readily reacts with 4-NBA to the described products.
The title compound, (2E)-1-(2,5-dimethyl-3-thienyl)3-(4-nitrophenyl)propenone (3) was synthesized in high yield by reaction of 3-acetyl-2,5-dimethythiophene and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde in the presence of sodium hydroxide. The structure of the compound was fully characterized by IR, 1H NMR, 13C NMR, GC-MS spectral analysis and elemental analysis.
Abstract The effects of heteroatom substitution on the cooperative catalytic activity of a series of bifunctional acid–base aminosilica catalysts are probed in aldol and nitroaldol condensations. Three M 3+ (B, Al, and Ga) and three M 4+ (Ti, Zr, and Ce) heteroatoms are incorporated into different samples of SBA-15 silica and then grafted with aminosilanes to produce bifunctional acid–base catalysts. The catalytic activity of each material is measured in the aldol condensation of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with acetone at 50 °C and the nitroaldol condensation of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with nitromethane at 40 °C and compared to the catalytic activity of a heteroatom-free aminosilica catalyst. The heteroatom substitutions produce catalysts with larger amounts of strong Lewis acid sites compared to the heteroatom-free aminosilica catalyst. We rationalize these results in the context of the physical (e.g. surface area, pore diameter, particle size) and chemical properties (e.g. total number and strength of acid sites) of each material and the proposed catalytic mechanisms of the two reactions. The increase in the number of strong Lewis acid sites of each heteroatom material decreased its activity in the aldol condensation, though four heteroatom substitutions (B, Al, Ga, and Ti) increased the catalytic activity of the aminosilica catalyst in the nitroaldol condensation. The results suggest that inclusion of a small amount of Lewis acid sites in aminosilica materials can increase the cooperative catalytic activity of the materials in the nitroaldol condensation. The results also suggest that inclusion of Lewis acid sites in aminosilica materials decreases the cooperative catalytic activity of the materials in the aldol condensation.
The use of protonated l-prolinethioamide instead of the free base derivative 1 as the organocatalyst for the direct aldol addition has a profound and appreciable effect on both the yield and the stereochemical course of the reaction. 4-Nitrobenzaldehyde (2) reacts with acetone in the presence of the protonated catalyst 1·TFA, affording aldol product 3 with a yield up to 99% and an ee up to 98%. The catalyst loading can be lowered to 2.5 mol %. More than 20 different acids were investigated as an additive, and its role as cocatalyst has been discussed. Furthermore, reactions of l-prolinethioamide salts with acetone have been monitored using ESI-MS and 1H NMR techniques, giving insight into the mechanism of the direct aldol reaction. The presumed formation of the iminium salt 10 has been unambiguously confirmed.
Gelatin protein was found to catalyze the aldol reaction between cyclohexanone and different aromatic aldehydes under mild reaction conditions. The aldol additions carried out in DMSO at 37° yielded the addition products with moderate diastereoselectivities favoring the syn isomers. Appropriate control experiments demonstrated the activity of the protein in the aldol reaction. The kinetic study of the model reaction between 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and cyclohexanone established a first-order rate constant k=(7.4±0.5)×10−3 h−1. Moreover, the scale-up of the process was successfully achieved at 1-g scale in a yield comparable to that in small scale.
Abstract Weak acids are known to enhance the activity of amines in aldol condensation reactions on silica-based catalysts. The effects of acid strength and arrangement of the promoting site with respect to a secondary amine have been investigated in the aldol condensation of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with acetone. Changing the substituent of this secondary amine from a methyl to an ethyl group decreases the activity. An intramolecular OH function provided by a primary alcohol incorporated on the β-carbon of the amine substituent exhibits a similar cooperativity as an intermolecular OH function provided by neighboring surface silanols. A maximum activity was achieved when the secondary amine with the same primary alcohol-containing substituent was surrounded by surface silanols, indicating the potential advantage of simultaneously activating both reactants by the formation of a hydrogen bond in contrast to the consecutive activation when there is only one promoting site in the vicinity of the amine. Changing the alcohol to stronger acids resulted in a reduced cooperativity with increasing acid strength. After removing the silanols from the surface, the activity of the catalysts which exhibit an intramolecular cooperativity retained about 68–83% of their activities while the activity of the conventional secondary amine was reduced by a factor of four compared to its intermolecularly cooperative counterpart.
This work describes the synthesis of novel 1,2,3-triazole-4-linked (2E,6E)-2-benzylidene-6-(4-nitrobenzylidene)cyclo-hexanones starting from cyclohexanone. 1-(Cyclohex-1-en-1-yl)piperidine, the enamine from cyclohexanone and piperidine, reacted with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde to obtain 2-(4-nitrobenzylidene)cyclohexanone. Condensation of the latter compound with (prop-2-yn-1-yloxy)benzaldehyde derivatives under acidic conditions gave (4-nitrobenzylidene)-[(prop-2-yn-1-yloxy)-benzylidene]cyclohexanones. Finally, ‘click reaction’ of these derivatives and various organic azides led to the title compounds. All compounds were examined by MTT assay for cytotoxic activity in one human breast cancer cell line, MDA-MB-231.
Abstract The acylation of substituted 2-aminopropanamides with (2 S )-Boc-proline, (2 S )-Cbz-proline and (2 S )-Bn-proline was used to prepare substituted 1-protected N -(1-carbamoyl-1,1-dialkyl-methyl)-( S )-prolinamides (74–89%), whose subsequent deprotection gave N -(1-carbamoyl-1,1-dialkyl-methyl)-( S )-prolinamides (94–95%). The enantiomerically pure N -(1-carbamoyl-1,1-dialkyl-methyl)-( S )-prolinamides obtained were tested as organocatalysts for the aldol reaction of cyclohexanone with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, with yields ranging from 38% to 79% ee. The highest enantioselectivity (89% ee) was achieved by catalysis with N -(1-carbamoyl-cyclopentyl)-( S )-prolinamide (methanol, l0% HCl). By the action of sodium methoxide, Boc -N -(1-carbamoyl-cyclopentyl)-( S )-prolinamide was quantitatively cyclised to 2-(1-Boc-pyrrolidin-2-yl)-1,3-diazaspiro[4.4]non-1-en-4-one, which was accompanied by racemisation at the stereogenic centre of the proline skeleton. Alternatively, the substituted 4,4-dialkyl-2-pyrrolidin-2-yl-4,5-dihydro-1 H -imidazol-5-ones were prepared by oxidation of 4,4-dialkyl-2-((2 S )-1-Boc-pyrrolidin-2-yl)-4,5-dihydro-1 H -imidazolidin-5-ones (54–69%). In an acid medium, 2-pyrrolidin-2-yl-1,3-diazaspiro[4.4]non-1-en-4-one and (4 S )-4-isopropyl-4-methyl-2-pyrrolidin-2-yl-4,5-dihydro-1 H -imidazol-5-one underwent racemisation. Conversely, the free base of (2 S )-2-pyrrolidin-2-yl-1,3-diazaspiro[4.4]non-1-en-4-one very easily underwent oxidation to give the achiral 2-(4,5-dihydro-3 H -pyrrol-2-yl)-1,3-diazaspiro[4.4]non-1-en-4-one.
However, there has been only one report on the properties of AKR1C12, in which two xenobiotic carbonyl compounds, 9,10-phenanthrenequinone (PQ) and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, were found to be good substrates. 11) Thus, the endogenous substrates of the enzyme remain unknown, and its ability to oxidize alcohol substrates has not been studied. In this study, we have examined the coenzyme and substrate specificity of recombinant AKR1C12 in both reduction and oxidation directions at physiological pH in order to elucidate the function related to the high expression levels in the stomach and myeloid cell differentiation.
The reaction of [(μ-EDBP)AlMe]2 (EDBP-H2 = 2,2‘-ethylidenebis(4,6-di-tert-butylphenol) with 2 mol equiv of 2-propanol at ambient temperature yields [(EDBP)Al(μ-OiPr)]2 (1), which has shown excellent catalytic activities toward hydrogen transfer reactions between aldehydes and 2-propanol (Meerwein−Ponndorf−Verley (MPV) reactions). The addition of 4 mol equiv of benzaldehyde, 4-methoxybenzaldehyde, or 4-chlorobenzaldehyde to [(EDBP)Al(μ-OiPr)]2 yields [(EDBP)Al(μ-OBz-p-X)(OCHC6H4-p-X)]2 (2, X = H; 3, X = OMe; 4, X = Cl). However, in the reaction of 1 with excess 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, only the four-coordinated complex [(EDBP)Al(μ-OBz-p-NO2)]2 (5) was obtained. Complex 1 further reacts with 2 mol equiv of OPPh3 or hexamethylphosphoramide (HMPA), yielding the four-coordinated monomeric complex [(EDBP)Al(OiPr)(S)] (6, S = OPPh3; 7, S = HMPA). Compounds 1, 3, 6, and 7 have been characterized by X-ray crystal structure determinations, enabling us to describe the intermediate of the MPV reactions.
Research in areas of science and technology critical to society, such as energy, medicine, electronics, protective equipment, and consumer goods relies on the ability to create new materials with desirable properties. The diversity in the properties of these materials is enormous. An important factor in the quest for developing exciting new materials is the ability to use synthetic chemistry to prepare new materials starting from a molecular point of view. It is this approach that I use in this work. ::: ::: I have used principles of synthetic organic chemistry to guide the molecular design of materials that contain a variety of functionalities. This thesis describes three types of designed functional materials. First, new heterogeneous catalysts have been prepared that incorporate two organic functional groups in a manner that allows for cooperativity between them in catalyzing organic reactions, giving increases in reaction rates and selectivities. In particular, thiol/sulfonic acid bi-functional mesoporous materials have been prepared that give significant enhancements in reactivity and selectivity towards bisphenol A synthesis. These enhancements arise from interactions between thiol and sulfonic acid sites due to their proximity on the surface of the catalyst. Acid-base bi-functional materials have also been synthesized that exhibit excellent reactivity in the aldol condensation between acetone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde. These catalysts are particularly important as the acid and base groups are mutually incompatible in solution and provide reactivity not achievable without immobilization on the surface of solids. Second, a method for incorporating traceable and quantifiable labels onto cyclodextrins and cyclodextrin containing polymers has been designed that utilizes the reactivity between the primary alcohols on cyclodextrins and ethylene oxide gas, and allows the cyclodextrins to be labeled for use in animal biodistribution studies. Third, polymers bearing aromatic disulfide groups have been prepared that can be degraded through a dual-trigger mechanism requiring simultaneous photochemical and hydrogen peroxide activation.
Complexes CH3ReO2L (L = 2-butyne, 3-hexyne, diphenylacetylene) are catalysts for the olefination of aldehydes, using 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (4-nba) as the standard aldehyde and ethyldiazoacetate (eda) as the diazo compound. Spectroscopic studies including in situ 31P, 17O, 13C, and 1H NMR spectroscopy are used to elucidate the mechanism and the nature of the active species. One of the key steps of the mechanism is the rapid formation of phosphazine at the beginning of the cycle and its subsequent reaction with the metal dioxide complex to form the catalytically active carbene species.
In continuation of our efforts to simplify the whole process, we envisaged that instead of using a tertiary amine as an organocatalyst, it should be possible to carry out a phosphine-catalyzed three-component reaction starting from the Baylis-Hillman reaction of aldehyde 1 and alkyl acrylate 2, which is followed by the Michael addition of dialkylmalonate 3 to the resulting adduct [25] [26] [27] [28] . Herein, dialkylmalonates 3 become activated by the action of the intermediate species formed in the phosphine-catalyzed MBH reaction, because phosphines were much poorer bases than amines though the former are stronger nucleophiles [29] . In particular, phosphines are known catalysts capable of promoting Michael reactions in the absence of added bases [30] [31] [32] [33] [34] . However, to the best of our knowledge, there is no report of a successful reaction or related study that utilizes 3 as the reacting partner. Therefore, we wish to report a highly efficient three-component reaction of 1, 2, and 3 catalyzed by ethyl diphenylphosphine (Scheme 1). Trace amounts of the product 4a were obtained when the less reactive PPh 3 was used (entry 2). Significant amounts of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (1a) and diethyl malonate (3a) were recovered, because the acrylate was prone to undergo polymerization when the extremely active PBu 3 was used as the catalyst (entry 3). DABCO, which has weaker nucleophilicity than that of EtPPh 2 , catalyzed the three component reaction of 1a, 2a and 3a and afforded 4a in only 25% yield within 24 h (entry 4). Inferior results were obtained when the reactions were carried out in i-PrOH, CH 2 Cl 2 and toluene (entries 5-7).
A steric effect was found in case of reactions with an ortho-substituted aromatic aldehydes. For example, aromatic aldehydes bearing a nitro group in the para-or meta-position, like 1a or 1b, reacted with 2a and 3a within 4 h to provide the corresponding adducts 4a or 4b with good stereoselectivities (18:82 dr, 13:87 dr) in 60% or 63% yield, respectively (entries 1 and 2). However, in the case of 2-nitrobenzaldehyde (1c), poor results for the formation of 4c were obtained (36% yield and 37:63 dr, entry 3). Other substituted aromatic aldehydes, such as 4-trifluoromethylbenzaldehyde (1d) or 4-cyanobenzaldehyde (1e), reacted like 2a and 3a, generating 4d or 4e in 57% or 50% yield with 20:80 dr or 17:83 dr, resepectively (entries 4 and 5). Moderate yield and good stereoselectivity of 4f was also produced when heteroaromatic aldehyde 1f was employed in our protocol (entry 6). The reaction of 1a, 1b, 1e, or 1f and 3a also proceeded well when ethyl acrylate (2b) was used as the activated olefin, furnishing the corresponding adducts 4g, 4h, 4i, or 4j in moderate yield with high stereoselectivity (entries 7-10). In addition to diethyl malonate (3a), dimethyl malonate (3b) and bis(phenylsulfonyl)methane (3c) were also investigated as carbon nucleophiles for this protocol. Both of them worked smoothly with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (1a) and methyl acrylate (2a, 2 equiv.) in the presence of EtPPh 2 to give the corresponding adducts 4k (39% yield, 13:87 dr) and 5 (54% yield, 47:53 dr) (entry 11 and Scheme 2) [35] . Remarkably, a tandem three-component reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (1a), methyl acrylate (2a, 1.2 equiv.) and a sterically bulky carbon nucleophile, diethyl methylmalonate (3d) (1.7 equiv.), ocurred successfully at room temperature within 9 h to provide the desired product 6n in 57% yield with good stereoselectivity (Scheme 3). 
Chloramphenicol is highly sensitive to light and photochemical decomposition of chloramphenicol results in a yellowing of the solution, development of an orange-yellow precipitate and lowering of the pH (Martindale, 1989) . The chemistry of the photo-degradation products of chloramphenicol aqueous solution at room temperature (21-30ºC) and in the presence of sunlight, suggest that under the influence of light and water the drug undergoes oxidation, reduction and condensation reactions. The photochemical degradation of chloramphenicol in various solvents was investigated and the following photolysis products isolated: hydrochloric acid, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, 4-nitrobenzoic acid, 4,4-azoxybenzoic acid and 2-amino-1-(4-nitrophenyl) propane-1,3-diol, as indicated by thin layer chromatography (Shih, 1971) . Later work concerning the quality control of a pharmaceutical preparation (0.24% eye drops), it has found that under the influence of sunlight, some nitrosocompounds: p-nitrobenzene, p-nitrobenzaldehyde and pnitrosobenzoic acid are formed.
As the electron-withdrawing core cyanine unit for the preparation of the C-C hybrid illustrated in Scheme 3, we selected 4-nitrophenyl and 5-(4-nitrophenyl)-2-thienyl groups to examine the effect of the core cyanine unit (Schemes 6 and 7). Introduction of 2,5-thiophenediyl spacer might further stabilize the presumed twoelectron reduction state by the extension of the π-electron system with the thienoquinoidal form. [22] [23] [24] [25] To exemplify the C-C hybrid illustrated in Scheme 5, we have examined the preparation of 3,3-bis(3,6-ditert-butyl-1-azulenyl)-1,1-bis (4-nitrophenyl) propenylium ion that employed 4-nitrophenyl groups as the electron-withdrawing terminal groups. We have also examined the substituent effects at the 1,1-diaryl moiety, i.e., diphenyl, bis(4-fluorophenyl), and fluorenylidene in addition to the bis(4-nitrophenyl) terminal groups (Schemes 8 and 9). Thus, the two-types of C-C hybrids constructed by di(1-azulenyl)methylium units as an end group 5a The reaction of 1,6-di-tert-butylazulene (3a) 10 with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (2) in acetic acid at room temperature afforded bis(3,6-di-tert-butyl-1-azulenyl)(4-nitrophenyl)methane (4a) in 76% yield (Scheme 6). Similarly, bis(3,6-di-tert-butyl-1-azulenyl)[5-(4-nitrophenyl)-2-thienyl)]methane (7a) was obtained by the reaction of 3a with 5-(4-nitrophenyl)thiophene-2-carbaldehyde (6), 26 which was prepared by Miyaura-Suzuki cross-coupling of 2-formylthiophene-5-boronic acid with 4-iodonitrobenzene, in acetic acid at room temperature in 62% yield (Scheme 7). Analogously, preparation of the corresponding bis(3-methoxycarbonyl) derivatives 4b and 7b for the precursors of 5b + and 8b + was accomplished via the reaction of methyl azulene-1-carboxylate (3b) with 2 and 6 in refluxing acetic acid 84% and 11% yields, respectively. The yield of 7b has been further improved to 35% by performing the reaction in a boiling mixture of acetic acid and toluene, probably due to the increasing solubility of 6 in the mixed solvent. Furthermore, reaction of 3a with β-phenylcinnamaldehyde (9a) in acetic acid at room temperature afforded 3,3-bis(3,6-di-tert-butyl-1-azulenyl)-1,1-diphenylpropene (10a) in 76% yield (Scheme 8). Preparation of the corresponding bis(3-methoxycarbonyl) derivative 10b for the precursor of 11b + was accomplished by the similar reaction of 3b with 9a in refluxing acetic acid in 27% yield. As similar to the reaction with 9a, 3,3-bis(3,6-di-tert-butyl-1-azulenyl)-1,1-bis(4-fluorophenyl)propene (10b) was obtained in 43% yield by the reaction of 3a with 3,3-bis(4-fluorophenyl)-2-propenal (9b), which was prepared from 4,4'-difluorobenzophenone by the reaction with Et 3 N in the presence of TiCl 4 followed by the hydration with saturated NH 4 Cl solution as reported in the literature. 27 Preparation of the 4,4'-dinitro derivative, 3,3-bis(3,6-di-tert-butyl-1-azulenyl)-1,1-bis(4-nitrophenyl)propene (10d), for the precursor of 11d + was established in 30% yield by the similar reaction of 3a with 3,3-bis(4-nitrophenyl)-2-propenal (9c), which was prepared in 27% yield by the reaction of 4,4'-dinitrobenzophenone 28 with Et 3 N in the presence of TiCl 4
Aim To synthesizea panipenem intermediate, p -nitrobenzyl (3R,5R,6S) -2-oxo-6-[ (1R) -1- hydroxyethyl] carbapenam-3-carboxylate.Methods Commercially available 4-nitrobenzaldehyde was used as starting material to give the target compound via reduction,esterification,diazotization,enolization,condensation,hydrolysis,and cyclization.Results and conclusion The target compound was prepared in 60.7% overall yield and its structure was identified by IR, 1H-NMR and MS.
Aromatic aldehydes are very important organic intermediates,which are widely used in pharmaceuticals,pesticides and other areas.In this paper,an improved synthetic method of aromatic aldehydes containing electrowithdrawing groups in ortho or para(or both) position of the aromatic ring was introduced.4-choloro-2-nitrotoluene,4-nitrotoluene and 4-cyanotoluene were used as raw materials,respectively,via enamination with N,N-dimethylformamide dimethyl acetal(DMFDMA) in the present of N,N-dimethylformamide(DMF) as solvent and under reflux,the corresponding styrylamine compounds were produced;then the intermediates were further oxidized by H2O2 under different reaction conditions.The effects of solvent species,reaction temperature and the used amount of H2O2 on the product yield were studied,and the optimal reaction conditions were determined.Under those optimal conditions,the best yields of different aldehydes are 75.6%(4-chloro-2-nitrobenzaldehyde),58.3%(4-nitrobenzaldehyde) and 68.2%(4-cyanobenzaldehyde),respectively with the advantages of simple process,low cost and being environment-friendly..The main intermediates and objective products were confirmed by HPLC and 1H-NMR.
A new method for the histochemical visualization of lysosomal aminopeptidase dipeptidyl peptidase II activity (DPP II) is developed. The substrate L-Lys-L-Ala-5-chloro-1-anthraquinonylhydrazide-2HBr (Lys-Ala-CAH) is readily hydrolyzed by the enzyme to release 5-Cl-1-anthraquinonylhydrazine (CAH). The last compound is simultaneously coupled to an aromatic aldehyde, e.g. 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (p-NBA) or piperonal (3,4-methylenedioxybenzaldehyde; PPL), to form a highly insoluble deeply colored hydrazone, marking the enzyme locations. Using the new method, DPP II is successfully localyzed in tissue sections from different rat organs.
The objective was to prepare and optimise solid acid and solid base catalysts for liquid phase reactions. The approach has been to functionalize porous silica support materials with acid and base catalytic groups. Solid acid, solid base and bifunctional solid acid/base catalysts were studied. Evidence for acid-base cooperative catalytic mechanisms was found, suggesting that these bifunctional catalysts could show significant advantages over singly functionalized materials of mixtures thereof. ::: ::: Silicas functionalized with tethered aminopropyl groups were prepared by both a grafting method and a sol–gel method. The solids were fully characterized and were tested in the nitroaldol condensation between nitromethane and benzaldehyde to afford nitrostyrene and the aldol reaction between 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and acetone to afford 4-(4-nitrophenyl)-4-hydroxy-2-butanone. The catalytic activities of these materials were found to be dependent on the dispersion and accessibilities of the active sites which, in turn, depend on the methods utilized for the catalyst preparation. ::: ::: Solid acid catalysts were prepared by grafting silica with mercaptopropyl-trimethoxysilane (MPTS) followed by oxidation. The influence of the oxidation procedure on the acidity of the catalyst is described. The use of concentrated HNO3 optimizes the oxidation process and increases the concentration of active sites in comparison to H2O2. The activities of these catalysts were tested in the deacetalization of benzaldehyde dimethyl acetal to benzaldehyde. ::: ::: The use of solid acid and solid base catalysts in the same system was examined, in a two-stage acid-catalyzed deacetalization and base-catalyzed Henry reaction. ::: ::: Solid bifunctional acid-base catalysts were prepared by grafting on amorphous silica in two ways: 1) by grafting propylsulfonic acid and aminopropyl groups to the silica surface ::: (NH2-SiO2-SO3H) and 2) by grafting aminopropyl groups and then partially neutralizing with phosphotungstic acid, relying on the H2PW12O40- ion for surface acidity (NH2-SiO2-NH3+[H2PW12O40-]. These two bifunctional catalysts were compared with each other and with the singly functionalised catalysts described above. Surface acidities and basicities were characterized by adsorption calorimetry, using SO2 as a probe for surface basicity and NH3 for surface acidity. Catalytic activities were measured in the tandem deacetalization/Henry reaction described above, and in an aldol reaction in which a cooperative acid-base catalytic mechanism is thought to be effective. Overall NH2-SiO2-SO3H catalysts showed higher concentrations and strengths of both acid and base sites, and higher activities. Both catalysts showed evidence of cooperative acid-base catalytic sites. Even in the deacetalization/Henry reaction, the bifunctional catalysts exhibited a catalytic advantage over physical mixtures of singly functionalized catalysts. ::: ::: A further bifunctional acid-base catalyst was prepared and studied by tethering proline to silica. In this case, the catalyst was chiral and was tested in the asymmetric aldol reaction between acetone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde. Grafting methods with and without protecting groups for the active sites on proline were investigated. Remarkably the optimised supported proline catalysts showed higher activities and higher enantioselectivities than proline in homogeneous solution, and showed minimal loss in activity with time. Both activity and enantioselectivity depended strongly on the nature of the reaction solvent.
The competition between oxidation to the corresponding benzoic acid and nitration in the aromatic ring of some substituted benzaldehydes has been probed by kinetic and product studies. Nitrodeformylation was not detected. 4-Carboxybenzaldehyde is nitrated but nitro- and dinitro-substituted benzaldehydes are predominantly oxidised. Rapid reversible gem-dinitrate formation occurs in concentrated solutions of dinitrogen pentaoxide in nitric acid, and the equilibrium extent of formation of dinitrato-(4-nitrophenyl)methane from 4-nitrobenzaldehyde is reported. Both species are oxidised in processes in which α-hydrogen loss is at least partially rate determining, as shown by kinetic hydrogen isotope effects. There is evidence for the intrusion of radical mechanisms in concentrated solutions of dinitrogen pentaoxide.
A series of immobilized bipyridine-proline based on mesoporous silica with different structures were synthesized via grafting followed by coordination method. All catalysts were used in asymmetric aldol reaction of cyclohexanone with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, and their catalytic performance including activities and stabilities have been investigated. The results indicated that the pore structure, morphology, and even the particle dispersity all showed the effects on the catalytic performance of immobilized catalysts.
Functionalization of dicarboxylate linkers with proline was used to generate catalytically active metal–organic frameworks (MOFs) for diastereoselective aldol addition. Due to high robustness and chemical stability, zirconium based MOFs, namely UiO-67 and UiO-68, were chosen as catalyst hosts. During the MOF synthesis, utilizing Boc protected proline functionalized linkers H2bpdc-NHProBoc and H2tpdc-NHProBoc, in situ deprotection of the Boc groups without racemization is achieved, enabling direct application of the enantiopure, homochiral MOFs in catalytic reaction, without further postsynthetic treatment. Solvent screening and kinetic studies as well as cycling tests were used to evaluate the conditions for diastereoselective aldol addition using a model reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and cyclohexanone. High yields (up to 97%) were achieved in reasonable reaction time using ethanol as solvent. In comparison to homocatalytic reactions catalyzed by l-proline and its derivatives, MOFs showed opposite diast...
Ethylene and propylene carbonates, which can be prepared from epoxides and carbon dioxide, are effective solvents for the proline-catalysed, 100% atom economical, asymmetric aldol reaction between enolisable and non-enolisable carbonyl compounds. The optimal cyclic carbonate to use for a particular aldol reaction along with the need for water as a cosolvent appear to be determined by the polarities of the various components present in the reaction mixture. Both cyclic and acyclic ketones can be used as the enamine precursor and react best with electron-deficient aldehydes, such as 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and pentafluorobenzaldehyde. Chemical yields of up to 99%, diastereoselectivities of up to 100% and enantioselectivities of up to 99% can be obtained. The relative and/or absolute configuration of three of the aldol products are determined unambiguously by X-ray diffraction.
9-Substituted 2-(5-nitrofuran-2-yl)-9H-imidazo[1,2-a]benzimidazoles were synthesized for the first time by cyclization of quaternary salts obtained from 1-substituted benzimidazol-2-amines and 2-bromo-1-(5-nitrofuran-2-yl)ethan-1-one. 9-R-2-Methyl(aryl)-9H-imidazo[1,2-a]benzimidazoles reacted with 5-nitrofuran-2-carbaldehyde and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde to give the corresponding secondary alcohols as a result of aldehyde addition to the 3-position of the tricyclic system. The Witting olefination of ethyl 2-(bromomethyl)-9-methyl-9H-imidazo[1,2-a]benzimidazole-3-carboxylate afforded 2-ethenylimidazo[1,2-a]benzimidazoles.
Abstract Amine functionalized silicas have frequently been investigated as potential aldol reaction catalysts. However, active site leaching due to hydrolysis cannot be avoided, limiting the long-term stability of these catalysts in aqueous aldol reactions. Therefore, novel catalysts based on an organic resin have been developed starting from a suspension polymerized poly(ethylene glycol) methacrylate (PEGMA) hydrogel with poly(ethylene glycol) dimethacrylate (PEGDMA) as cross-linker. Amine functionalization was performed by chlorination of the terminal hydroxyl groups in the resulting PEGMA resin and subsequent nucleophilic substitution with an amine precursor, i.e., ethylenediamine (EDA), N,N′-dimethylethylenediamine (DED), or methylamine (MA). The successful synthesis of the catalysts was confirmed by 13C NMR, FT-IR, and elemental CHN analysis. Performance evaluation in a batch reactor for the aqueous aldol reaction of acetone with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde resulted in a turnover frequency (TOF) of the PEGMA-EDA catalyst amounting to 6.3 ± 0.4 · 10−4 s−1, which is of the same order of magnitude as that of the corresponding state-of-the-art amine functionalized silica evaluated using hexane as solvent. The PEGMA-DED catalyst exhibited a somewhat lower TOF of 3.1 ± 0.2 · 10−4 s−1, while the PEGMA-MA catalyst did not exhibit any turnover, indicating that the secondary amine in the backbone of the active site in the PEGMA-EDA catalyst is inactive. Continuous-flow evaluation of the PEGMA-EDA catalyst in a packed-bed reactor indicated that, as opposed to a primary amine functionalized silica catalyst, a stable catalytic activity as a function of time on stream could be achieved for at least 8 h and, hence, that no deactivation has occurred in this timeframe.
Effects of TFA on the direct asymmetric Aldol reaction of cyclohexanone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde catalyzed by different L-α-amino acids were systematically studied.For most amino acid catalysts,significant effects of TFA were observed on the catalytic efficacy,in many cases affording improved yield and enantioselectivity,albeit no obvious trend observed with the diastereoseletivity.
Abstract A series of tridentate pincer ligands, each possessing two sulfur- and one nitrogen-donor functionalities (SNS), based on bis-imidazole or bis-triazole salts were metallated with ZnCl 2 to give new tridentate SNS pincer zinc(II) complexes [(SNS)ZnCl] + . The zinc complexes serve as models for the zinc active site in liver alcohol dehydrogenase (LADH) and were characterized with single crystal X-ray diffraction, 1 H, 13 C, and HSQC NMR spectroscopies, electrospray mass spectrometry, and elemental analysis. The zinc complexes feature SNS donor atoms and pseudotetrahedral geometry about the zinc center, as is seen for liver alcohol dehydrogenase. The bond lengths and bond angles of the zinc complexes correlate well to those in horse LADH. The SNS ligand precursors were characterized with 1 H, 13 C, and HSQC NMR spectroscopies, elemental analysis, and cyclic voltammetry, and were found to be redox active. Gaussian calculations were performed and agree with the experimentally observed oxidation potentials for the pincer ligand precursors. The zinc complexes were screened for the reduction of electron-poor aldehydes in the presence of a hydrogen donor, 1-benzyl-1,4-dihydronicotinamide (BNAH), and it was determined that they enhance the reduction of electron-poor aldehydes. The SNS zinc pincer complexes with bis-triazole ligand precursors exhibit higher activity for the reduction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde than do SNS zinc pincer complexes with bis-imidazole ligand precursors. Quantitative stoichiometric conversion was seen for the reduction of pyridine-2-carboxaldehyde via SNS zinc pincer complexes with either bis-imidazole or bis-triazole ligand precursors.
Amine functionalized silicas have frequently been investigated as potential aldol reaction catalysts. However, active site leaching due to hydrolysis cannot be avoided, limiting the long-term stability of these catalysts in aqueous aldol reactions. Therefore, novel catalysts based on an organic resin have been developed starting from a suspension polymerized poly(ethylene glycol) methacrylate (PEGMA) hydrogel with poly(ethylene glycol) dimethacrylate (PEGDMA) as cross-linker. Amine functionalization was performed by chlorination of the terminal hydroxyl groups in the resulting PEGMA resin and subsequent nucleophilic substitution with an amine precursor, i.e., ethylenediamine (EDA), N,N 0 -dimethylethylenedia mine (DED), or methylamine (MA). The successful synthesis of the catalysts was confirmed by 13 C NMR, FT-IR, and elemental CHN analysis. Performance evaluation in a batch reactor for the aqueous aldol reaction of acetone with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde resulted in a turnover frequency (TOF) of the PEGMA-EDA catalyst amounting to 6.3 ± 0.4 Á 10 À4 s À1 , which is of the same order of magnitude as that of the corresponding state-of-the-art amine functionalized silica evaluated using hexane as solvent. The PEGMA-DED catalyst exhibited a somewhat lower TOF of 3.1 ± 0.2 Á 10 À4 s À1 , while the PEGMA-MA catalyst did not exhibit any turnover, indicating that the secondary amine in the backbone of the active site in the PEGMA-EDA catalyst is inactive. Continuous-flow evaluation of the PEGMA-EDA catalyst in a packed-bed reactor indicated that, as opposed to a primary amine functionalized silica catalyst, a stable catalytic activity as a function of time on stream could be achieved for at least 8 h and, hence, that no deactivation has occurred in this timeframe.
The oxidation of 4-t-butylcatechol catalyzed by mushroom tyrosinase was inhibited by 4-bromobenzaldehyde, 4-chlorobenzaldehyde, 4-fluorobenzaldehyde, 4-cyanobenzaldehyde, and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with 50% inhibitory concentrations of 114 μM, 175 μM, 387 μM, 822 μM, and 1846 μM, respectively. The inhibition kinetics were analyzed by Dixon plots, which indicated that a series of 4-hallogenated benzaldehydes acted as partial noncompetitive inhibitors in the same manner as benzaldehyde. Although β values were decreased with an increase of the tyrosinase inhibitory activity, full inhibition could not be observed. In contrast, 4-cyanobenzaldehyde and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde acted as mixed and noncompetitive inhibitors, respectively. Full inhibition was particularly represented by 4-nitrobenzaldehyde. According to a previous report, 4-alkylbenzaldehyde and 4-alkoxybenzaldehyde with a bulky substituent acted as full inhibitors. Those results suggested that the steric factor at the 4-position triggered the alternation between partial or full tyrosinase inhibition irrespective of electronic or hydrophobic effects.
The title compound, C 16 H 12 F 3 N 3 O 5 SÁH 2 O, was prepared by reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, 4,4,4-trifluoro-1-(thiophen-2-yl)butane-1,3-dione and urea. The asymmetric unit contains two independent molecules, with essentially identical geometries and conformations. The dihydropyrimidine rings adopt a half-chair conformation. The dihedral angles between the benzene ring and the thiophene ring are 54.82 (8) and 58.72 (8) in the two molecules. The molecular conformation of one of the molecules is stabilized by two intramolecular O-HÁ Á ÁO hydrogen bonds, generating an S(6) ring. The crystal structure is stabilized by intermolecular O-HÁ Á ÁO and N-HÁ Á ÁO hydrogen bonds. 
In this study, an indirect competitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay with chemiluminescent (CLELISA) detection for 3-amino-5-morpholinomethyl-2-oxazolidone (AMOZ) was developed. A monoclonal antibody (MAb) against AMOZ was prepared through immunizing BALB/c mice with 4-carboxybenzaldehyle derivatized AMOZ (CPAMOZ), conjugated with bovine serum albumin (BSA) as antigen. The effects of the substrates luminol, p-iodophenol and urea peroxide on the performance of the assay were studied and optimized. In addition, the specificity of the MAb, estimated as the cross-reactivity values with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde derivatized AMOZ (NPAMOZ), CPAMOZ and AMOZ, was 100%, 27.45% and 0.18%, respectively. The sensitivity of the developed CLELISA was estimated as 50% inhibitory concentration (IC50) value (0.14μg/l) with a linear working range between 0.03 and 64μg/l, and a limit of detection of 0.01μg/l. The CLELISA described in this study was 5-fold more sensitive than the indirect competitive ELISA previously developed in our laboratory. Finally, this new CLELISA was compared with a commercial kit to detect NPAMOZ in spiked fish, shrimp, honey and egg samples. The recovery values from four spiked fish, shrimp, honey and egg samples with different concentrations of NPAMOZ in CLELISA were 92.1-107.7%. Thus, the immunoassay method described here has a broad detection range and high sensitivity and is a valid and cost-effective means for high throughput monitoring of residual AMOZ levels in fish, shrimps, honey and eggs with potential applications in other animal tissues.
In this work boehmite was used as an acid-base bifunctional catalyst for aldol condensation reactions of aromatic aldehydes and ketones. The catalyst was prepared by simple sol-gel method using Al(NO3)3·9H2O and NH4OH as precursors. The catalyst has been characterized by X-ray diffraction (XRD), Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR), Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM), UV-visible spectroscopy (DRS), BET surface area analyses. Boehmite is successfully applied as catalyst for the condensation reaction between 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and acetone as a model substrate giving α, β-unsaturated ketones without any side product. The scope of the reaction is extended for various substituted aldehydes. A probable mechanism has been suggested to explain the cooperative behavior of the acidic and basic sites. The catalyst is environmentally friendly and easily recovered from the reaction mixture. Also the catalyst is reusable up to 3 catalytic cycles.
A series of novel proline-based organocatalysts with amide and thiourea-amine units (7a–7f) were developed and evaluated in the asymmetric aldol reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with cyclohexanone. ...
Zn-proline complex was found to be a good and recyclable catalyst for Henry reaction of activated aromatic aldehydes and nitroalkanes in aqueous media.The reactions proceed smoothly at room temperature to produce 2-nitroalcohols with higher yields. Importantly, Zn-proline complex is soluble in water but not soluble in organic solvents,which allowed of recycle of the catalyst.When the reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and CH_3NO_2 using same load of Zn-proline catalyst was repeated about 5 times,the catalytic activity of catelyst have not any reduction.
Reaction of the ligand precursor, 4-benzyloxybenzoylhydrazine (1) with benzaldehyde and substituted benzaldehydes (e.g., 4-methoxybenzaldehyde, 4-chlorobenzaldehyde, 4-bromobenzaldehyde, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, 4-methylbenzaldehyde, 4-ethylbenzaldehyde) with nickel(II) acetate yields the complexes bis[N-4-substituted benzylidene (4-benzyloxy) benzoyl-hydrazinato]nickel (II) 3-9, respectively. The complexation proceeds via the intermediate ligand formation (2), not the template method. Complexes having the electron withdrawing groups of the benzylidene moiety (=CHC 6 H 4 X) are more soluble than having the electron donation groups. Among the compounds, only 3, 4 and 8-11 show activity against the pathogenic bacteria (E. coli, S. dysentria, B. subtitles, St.β-haemolytica), while other compounds 5-7 and 12 do not show any activity. The electron donating group (X = H, OCH 3 , CH 3 , C 2 H 5 ) of the benzylidene moiety (=CHC 6 H 4 X) may be responsible for the activity of the compounds.
Abstract Background Glucose is considered as one of the main sources of cell damage related to aldose reductase (AR) action in hyperglycemic conditions and a worldwide effort is posed in searching for specific inhibitors of the enzyme. This AR substrate has often been reported as generating non-hyperbolic kinetics, mimicking a negative cooperative behavior. This feature was explained by the simultaneous action of two enzyme forms acting on the same substrate. Methods The reduction of different aldoses and other classical AR substrates was studied using pure preparations of bovine lens and human recombinant AR. Results The apparent cooperative behavior of AR acting on glucose and other hexoses and pentoses, but not on tethroses, glyceraldehyde, 4-hydroxynonenal and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, is generated by a partial nonclassical competitive inhibition exerted by the aldose hemiacetal on the reduction of the free aldehyde. A kinetic model is proposed and kinetic parameters are determined for the reduction of l -idose. Conclusions Due to the unavoidable presence of the hemiacetal, glucose reduction by AR occurs under different conditions with respect to other relevant AR-substrates, such as alkanals and alkenals, coming from membrane lipid peroxidation. This may have implications in searching for AR inhibitors. The emerging kinetic parameters for the aldoses free aldehyde indicate the remarkable ability of the enzyme to interact and reduce highly hydrophilic and bulky substrates. General significance The discovery of aldose reductase modulation by hemiacetals offers a new perspective in searching for aldose reductase inhibitors to be developed as drugs counteracting the onset of diabetic complications.
Mesoporous silicas functionalized with the l-prolinamide group in the mesopore were synthesized by co-condensation of silicon precursors with l-prolinamide modified organosilane (PCA) in HOAc-NaOAc buffer solution (pH = 4.4) using block copolymer P123 as a template. The highly ordered 2D hexagonal mesostructure was obtained through one-pot co-condensation of tetraethoxysilane (TEOS), Na2SiO3 and PCA as silicon source. The disordered foam-like mesostructure was also obtained when TEOS and PCA were used as silicon sources. In asymmetric aldol reaction of cyclohexanone with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, the materials with highly ordered mesostructure exhibit higher enantioslectivity (91% ee) than that with disordered foam-like mesostructure (75% ee), suggesting that the ordered pore structure imparts improved enantioselectivity. The l-prolinamide functionalized materials were also synthesized by graft- ing PCA onto mesoporous silicas, which showed catalytic efficiencies similar to the materials synthesized by the co-condensation method.
Electric eel AChE (EC.3.1.1.7), 5,5'-dithiobis-(2-nitrobenzoic acid) (DTNB), acetylthiocholine-iodide (ATCI), 2-pyridine aldoxime (2-PAM), parathion (O, Odiethyl O-4-nitrophenyl tiophosphate), 2-bromo-, 3-bromo-, 4-bromobenzaldehyde, 2-chloro-, 4-chlorobenzaldehyde, 4-hydroxy-3-methoxybenzaldehyde, 3,4-(methylenedioxy) benzaldehyde, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, 4-pyridinecarboxaldehyde and 4-cyanepyridine were acquired from Sigma-Aldrich (Brazil). Dichloromethane, ethyl acetate, hexane, ethanol and methanol were purchased from Tedia (Brazil).
In recent years, there has been an explosion of research concerning the area of organocatalysis. A multistep capstone laboratory project that combines traditional reactions frequently found in organic laboratory curriculums with this new field of research is described. In this experiment, the students synthesize a prolinamide-based organocatalyst that is then used to perform an enantioselective aldol reaction between acetone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde. The enantiomeric excess (ee) of the reaction is determined by chiral HPLC and polarimetry. Students obtained ee values ranging from 46 to 59%. This experiment is designed to be adaptable and can be performed with minimal equipment (glassware, IR, and polarimeter). It also provides flexibility to the instructor, due to the wide range of topics that may be emphasized in the experience.
A new class of hybrid Lewis acid/Lewis base catalysts has been designed and prepared with an initial objective of promoting stereoselective direct aldol reactions. Several scaffolds were synthesized that contain amine moieties capable of enamine catalysis, connected to heterocyclic metal-chelating sections composed of an oxazole–oxazoline or thiazole–oxazoline. Early screening results have identified oxa­zole–oxazoline-based systems capable of promoting a highly diastereo- and enantioselective direct aldol reaction of propionaldehyde with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, when combined with Lewis acids such as zinc triflate.
Abstract In the presence of Eu(fod) 3 , (1 E )-(2′,3′,4′,6′-tetra- O -acetyl-β- d -glucopyranosyloxy)buta-1,3-diene and its (3 Z )-4- O -acetyl derivative undergo Re -face and endo selective hetero Diels-Alder reactions with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, 5-nitrofuran-2-carbaldehyde and 5-nitrothiophene-2-carbaldehyde. The cycloadducts are converted into the title compounds, early examples of ‘free’ 5- C -arylpentopyranoses.
Surface chemistry is an important factor for quality control during production of nanomaterials and for controlling their behavior in applications and when released into the environment. Here we report a comparison of four methods for quantifying amine functional groups on silica nanoparticles (NPs). Two colorimetric assays are examined, ninhydrin and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, which are convenient for routine analysis and report on reagent accessible amines. Results from the study of a range of commercial NPs with different sizes and surface loadings show that the assays account for 50–100% of the total amine content, as determined by dissolution of NPs under basic conditions and quantification by solution-state 1H NMR. To validate the surface quantification by the colorimetric assays, the NPs are modified with a trifluoromethylated benzaldehyde probe to enhance sensitivity for quantitative 19F solid state NMR and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). Good agreement between the assays and the determination from solid-state NMR is reinforced by elemental ratios from XPS, which indicate that in most cases the difference between total and accessible amine content reflects amines that are outside the depth probed by XPS. Overall the combined results serve to validate the relatively simple colorimetric assays and indicate that the reactions are efficient at quantifying surface amines, by contrast to some other covalent modifications that have been employed for functional group quantification.
The reactions of 1,3-diethyl-2-thiobarbituric acid (detba) in ethanol at room temperature with 4-(dimethylamino)benzaldehyde (dmabza) or cinnamaldehyde afford the Knoevenagel products 3 and 4, respectively. Under identical conditions, pyridine-4-carbaldehyde, 4-methoxybenzaldehyde, benzaldehyde, 4-cyanobenzaldehyde, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and 4-ferrocenylbenzaldehyde yield exclusively the arylbis(1,3-diethyl-2-thiobarbitur-5-yl)methane Michael adducts 2, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9, respectively. Although 3 can be forced to react further by treatment with excess detba in refluxing ethanol, the product 10 is unstable in solution and readily reverts to 3. The stability of 4 is attributed to extended conjugation, and it is likely that the pronounced difference in reactivity between dmabza and the other arylaldehydes arises primarily from electronic factors, i.e. the strongly electron donating effect of the -NMe2 substituent. Single crystal X-ray structures have been determined for the products 3 and 6. The structure of 6 confirms the formation of the Michael adduct and shows that both of the detba rings are present in mixed keto–enol forms, although the oxygens differ slightly in their degree of enolic character. The bond distances in 3 provide clear evidence for extensive ground state polarisation, in accord with the marked molecular nonlinear optical properties of the analogous -N(nBu)2 compound.
Background/Aim Breast cancer is one of the world’s leading cause of deaths in women. This study evaluated the in-vitro anticancer activity of different thiosemicarbazones (HacTSc, HSTsc, 3-MBTSc, 4-NBTSc and 4-HBTSc) against MCF-7 human breast cancer cell line and MCF-10 normal cell. Materials and Methods The ligands were prepared and characterized by UV vis, IR, 1H NMR. MTT assay was used to determine cell viability. Then data were analyzed using two-way ANOVA with Tukey post-hoc test. Result: The ligands have IC50 value ranging from 2.271µg/ml to 7.081µg/ml. Acetone thiosemicarbazone and 3-Methoxybenzaldehyde thiosemicarbazone, were identified as the most potent against MCF-7 breast cancer cells with IC50 value of 2.271µg/ml and 2.743µg/ml respectively. Whereas 4-Nitrobenzaldehyde thiosemicarbazone was the least potent. Also, the IC50 of the normal MCF-10 cell indicated their activity were selective. Conclusion: The activity of the ligands were dose, position and substituents dependent. Acetone thiosemicarbazone and 3-Methoxybenzaldehyde thiosemicarbazone are promising anticancer agents for further study.
Abstract Several new classes of hybrid catalysts have been synthesized by tethering heterocyclic metal (Lewis acid) chelating scaffolds to several different amines capable of facilitating enamine catalysis. Oxazole, thiazole, and imidazole-based chiral precatalysts were prepared in several steps from amino acid starting materials, and these were combined with a variety of metal Lewis acids for potential use as catalysts for various carbon–carbon bond formations. Air- and moisture-tolerant catalysts for enantioselective direct aldol reactions with activated benzaldehyde acceptors were identified, with optimal results obtained with proline-derived oxazole–carboxamide precatalysts combined with Zn(OTf)2 or lanthanide (III) salts. Control studies support the hypothesis that these act as unimolecular hybrid catalysts for the aldol reaction of propionaldehyde and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde.
This study evaluated the in-vitro anticancer activity of different thiosemicarbazones (HacTSc, HSTsc, against MCF-7 human breast cancer cell line and MCF-10 normal cell. Materials and Methods: The ligands were prepared and characterized by UV vis, IR, 1 H NMR. MTT assay was used to determine cell viability. Then data were analyzed using two-way ANOVA with Tukey post-hoc test. Result: The ligands have IC50 value ranging from 2.271µg/ml to 7.081µg/ml. Acetone thiosemicarbazone and 3-Methoxybenzaldehyde thiosemicarbazone, were identified as the most potent against MCF-7 breast cancer cells with IC50 value of 2.271µg/ml and 2.743µg/ml respectively. Whereas 4-Nitrobenzaldehyde thiosemicarbazone was the least potent. Also, the IC50 of the normal MCF-10 cell indicated their activity were selective. Conclusion: The activity of the ligands were dose, position and substituents dependent. Acetone thiosemicarbazone and 3-Methoxybenzaldehyde thiosemicarbazone are promising anticancer agents for further study.
In an unrelated study, CAN in the presence of NaHCO 3 and acetonitrile was found to mediate the oxidative coupling between thiophenols and aromatic nitriles affording benzothiazoles. 16 4-hydroxy-and 4-aminophenols (not shown in Table 1 ) did not undergo nitration under similar conditions, but rather gave mixtures of oxidized products. Table 1 also lists the results for the nitration of 3-substituted phenols, i.e. 3-methoxy-(1e), 3-bromo-(1f), 3-methyl-(1g) and 3-chlorophenol (1h) and (1e-h), as well as ethyl 3-hydroxybenzoate (1n) and 3-hydroxybenzaldehyde (1o). With the exception of 1e, the 3-substituted derivatives were nitrated regioselectively at the unhindered site (C-6, in the case of the 3-substituted phenols and C-4, in the case of the 3-hydroxy derivatives) to give the 5-substituted 2-nitrophenols (2f-h), 3-hydroxy-4-nitro benzoate (2n) and 3-hydroxy-4-nitrobenzaldehyde (2o). The yields ranged from 87% to 93%. With the exception of methyl, the aforementioned substituents are -I groups (electron-withdrawing by induction) and thus would be expected to discourage electrophilic addition at the hindered site. Steric factor for these substituents as well as weakly activating methyl should also impede addition at the hindered site. In the exceptional case, 3-methoxyphenol (1e) underwent CAN nitration exclusively at the hindered C-2 site giving 3-methoxy-2-nitrophenol (2e) in 90% yield. This anomalous result indicates that the strong mesomeric effect of methoxy activates the hindered carbon site. Not only are the previous yields of substituted nitrophenols lower that those reported here, but most preparations involve at least two steps. For example, the highest yield of 2e previously reported was 70% using a two-step process of nitrosation of 1e followed by nitric acid oxidation. 19 Importantly, 3-hydroxybenzaldehyde (1o) and 3-methoxyphenol (1e) were not oxidized using the CAN/NaHCO 3 reagent.
The title hydrazone compound, C 15 H 13 N 3 O 3 , was prepared by the condensation of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with 2-methylbenzohydrazide in methanol. The dihedral angle between the two benzene rings is 14.8 (2) . In the crystal, molecules are linked through intermolecular N-HÁ Á ÁO hydrogen bonds, forming chains along the a axis.
Chalcones represent a group of compounds with interesting biological activities that are formed from Claisen- Schmidt reaction between a benzaldehyde and an acetophenone in the presence of NaOH as a catalyst and ethanol as a solvent. Four different chalcones were synthesized using various substituted aldehydes as 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, 4-hydroxybenzaldehyde, 4-chlorobenzaldehyde, and 2-furfuraldehyde. The designed molecules were successfully synthesized in the laboratory using literature methods and structures were confirmed by NMR and IR spectroscopy. For anti-diabetic activity detection alpha amylase inhibitory assaywas carried out.According to the results obtained, it can be concluded that of the synthesized compound 3-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-1-phenylprop-2-en-1-one has anAlpha amylase inhibitory activity.
Abstract A selective preparation of 2,5-dimethoxy-4-nitrobenzaldehyde is proposed in a procedure involving the transformation of the aldehyde group to a diacetoxymethyl group.
DFT/6-31G* calculations were applied to study the direct aldol reaction between acetone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde catalyzed by (S)-proline. Four transition states associated with the stereo-controlling step, corresponding to syn and anti arrangements of methylene moiety related to the carboxylic acid group in enamine intermediate and re and si attacks to the aldehyde carbonyl carbon have been obtained. The solvent effect of DMSO was investigated with polarized continuum model. The computed energies of transition states reveal the stereo-selectivity of the reaction.
The synthesis of 4-[ ‘8F]fluoroguaiacol (4-[ ‘“FJfluoro-2-methoxyphenol) has been achieved in no-carrieradded form starting from 2-methoxy-4-nitrobenzaldehyde, using nucleophilic aromatic substitution by [ ‘“Flfluoride followed by Baeyer-Villiger oxidation of the benzaldehyde to the phenol. Demethylation with boron tribromide gave 4-[ ‘*F]fluorocatechol (1,2-dihydroxy-4-[ ‘sF]fluorobenzene) with an overall yield of 18.-28% (EOB) in less than 2 h synthesis time. The fluorine-18 labeled intermediates and products were identical to standards of 4-fluoroguaiacol and 4-fluorocatechol prepared by the same methods. This represents a new approach to the synthesis of fluorinated phenols in fluorine-19 and fluorine-18 forms.
Abstract The direct aldol reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and cyclohexanone, catalyzed by a protonated prolinamide catalyst in water, proceeds with the formation of aldol product that has high diastereoselectivity and enantioselectivity in an optimal pH range of 4–5.
The present paper describe synthesis, spectral and antibacterial investigations on tweleve semicarbazones derived from 2-Hydroxybenzaldehyde, 3-Hydroxybenzaldehyde, 4-Hydroxybenzaldehyde, 2-Chlorobenzaldehyde, 3-Chlorobenzaldehyde, 4-Chlorobenzaldehyde, 2-Nitrobenzaldehyde, 3-Nitrobenzaldehyde, 4-Nitrobenzaldehyde. 2-Methoxybenzaldehyde, 3-Methoxybenzaldehyde, 4-Methoxybenzaldehyde. The synthesized complexes have been characterized on the basis of IR, NMR and elemental analysis after checking purity. Antibacterial studies have been studied on staphylococcus aureus and order of antibacterial activity was found in the following order CBSC > MBSC ≈HBSC > NBSC. The effect of structure and position of secondary group on antibacterial activity have also been investigated and in general it has been found that ortho effect reduces the antibacterial activity.
New green organic molecules as corrosion inhibitor namely, 2-amino-4-(4-nitrophenyl)-3-cyano-4, 5-dihydropyrano (3,2-c) coumarin (AND) was synthesized starting from 4-hydroxycoumarin, malonitraile and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and tested on mild steel (MS) in 1 M HCl media by a weight loss method and identification of the surface technique employee scanning/electron/microscope (SEM) studies. The AND as an inhibitor compound have been elucidate spectroscopically (FT-IR ,1HNMR and 13CNMR) The weight loss investigation demonstrated that inhibition performances have been improved via concentration raising of inhibitor. To support our results scanning electron microscopy was employed to clarify the surface of the MS with and without AND in 1.0 M HCl media. The inhibition performance rate was 96% at the maximum utilized concentration of AND
1. Comparison of structure-inhibition relationships and kinetic data between the N-[(4-benzoylamino)phenyl]sulfonyl]amino acids (BAPS-amino acids) and phenylsulfonylamino acids (PS-amino acids) suggests that the additional benzoyl moiety present in the BAPS-amino acids enhances inhibition by direct interaction with aldose reductase (EC 1.1.1.21) without altering the mode of interaction with the enzyme. 2. Also the 2-, 3- and 4-nitro regioisomers of BAPS-glycine (NBAPSG) display parallel structure- inhibition relationships with the 2-, 3- and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde substrates and the 2-, 3- and 4-nitroacetophenone competitive inhibitors. 3. Competition studies and multiple inhibition analyses demonstrate that the 4-nitrobenzoyl group of 4-NBAPSG binds at the substrate site of aldose reductase, while the PS-glycine moiety of 4-NBAPSG binds cooperatively at a distinct site.
The reactions of the phenylhydrazone and 2-chlorophenyl-, 2,4-difluorophenyl-, 4-nitrophenyl-, and 2-pyridylhydrazones of dimedone with benzaldehyde, 4-bromo-, 4-fluoro-, 4-(dimethylamino)-, 4-nitrobenzaldehydes, 2-, 3-, and 4-pyridinecarbaldehydes and 2-thiophenecarbaldehyde have given 24 novel 2,3-diaryl-4-oxo-4,5,6,7-tetrahydroindazoles. Treatment of the tosylhydrazones of dimedone and 1,3-cyclohexanedione with pyridine- and thiophenecarbaldehydes yielded 7 novel 3-pyridyl- and 3-thienyl-4-oxo-4,5,6,7-tetrahydroindazoles.
The condensation reaction of 5-(4-aminophenyl)-4-phenyl-1,2,4-triazole-3-thione with salicylaldehyde, 4-hydroxybenzaldehyde, 5-chlorosalicylaldehyde, 5-bromosalicylaldehyde, 2-nitrobenzaldehyde, 3-nitrobenzaldehyde, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and 4-methoxybenzaldehyde in methanol results in series of new Schiff bases. The structure of Schiff bases were confirmed by 1 H NMR, 13 C NMR, IR and mass spectroscopy. The synthesized compounds were tested for their antimicrobial activity against bacterial (Gram negative and Gram positive) strains in-vitro. The synthetic compounds showed different inhibition zones against tested bacterial strains. All compounds showed significant antiproliferative activity against Acinetobacter calcoaceticus ATCC 23055. In detail, Entrococcus faecalis (Gram positive) was resistant to all prepared compounds, whereas, A. calcoaceticus (Gram negative) was sensitive to all compounds especially 5c, 5d and 4. S. aureus (Gram positive, relatively resistant to antimicrobials) showed limited sensitivity to only 5c and 5d, and it was resistant to all other compounds and only 5c exhibited low activity against P. aeruginosa (Gram negative). The best results belonged to 5c that showed high activity against A. calcoaceticus (33 mm) as well as S. aureus (20 mm).
Three new Schiff bases containing 2,4,5-triphenyl-1H-imidazole(3a~3c) were synthesized by condensation reactions of aromatic aldehydes with 4,5-diphenyl-2-(4-aminophenyl)imidazole which was prepared by condensation and reduction reactions from benzil,4-nitrobenzaldehyde and ammonium acetate.The structures were characterized by1H NMR,IR and MS.The results of preliminary antibacterial activities test indicated that 3a~3c exhibited good antibacterial activities against Escherichia coli,Bacillus thuringiensis and Bacillus subtilis.
New green organic molecules as corrosion inhibitor namely, 2-amino-4-(4-nitrophenyl)-3-cyano-4, 5-dihydropyrano (3,2-c) coumarin (AND) was synthesized starting from 4-hydroxycoumarin, malonitraile and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and tested on mild steel (MS) in 1 M HCl media by a weight loss method and identification of the surface technique employee scanning/electron/microscope (SEM) studies. The AND as an inhibitor compound have been elucidate spectroscopically (FT-IR , 1 HNMR and 13 CNMR) The weight loss investigation demonstrated that inhibition performances have been improved via concentration raising of inhibitor. To support our results scanning electron microscopy was employed to clarify the surface of the MS with and without AND in 1.0 M HCl media. The inhibition performance rate was 96% at the maximum utilized concentration of AND.
We described results of comparative studies of the application ::: of Ce(III) cation supported on macroporous weakly acidic ::: polyacrylate resin as catalyst in two model three-component ::: domino syntheses, i.e. Kabachnik-Fields domino synthesis of ::: alpha-aminophosphonates, and Prins-Ritter domino synthesis of ::: 4-amidotetrahydropyrane derivatives, respectively. It was ::: discovered that cation Ce(III) supported on a weak acid ::: macroporous cation-exchanger shown in the studied reactions at ::: least the same or better catalytic activity as salt CeCl3.7H2O, ::: eventually doped by NaI. Further, we found that reactivity of ::: the low reactive 4-methoxybenzaldehyde as carbonyl compounds in ::: the presence of Ce(III) catalyst increases, while the ::: reactivity of the highly reactive 4-nitrobenzaldehyde in this ::: case strongly decreases due to its low coordination with the ::: catalyst. Finally, the presented synthetic protocols using ::: cerium(III) supported on low-cost industrial resin further ::: increases green impact of studied domino syntheses of ::: alpha-aminophosphonates, and 4-amidotetrahydropyrane ::: derivatives.
The environment-friendly three component condensation reactions of N,N′-dimethylbarbituric acid, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and alkyl or aryl isocyanides to afford the corresponding furo[2,3-d]pyrimidine-2,4(1H,3H)-diones, in water, in high yields after several minutes are reported.
The reduction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde to 4,4'-dihydroformylazoxybenzene was studied with Mg,Al,Zn or Fe and dilute HCl system in aqueous media.The influences of reaction conditions included the various metals,the amount of metal,reaction temperature and reaction time on the yield were studied.The reaction conditions were moderate and the operation was simple and convenient.Under the optimum conditions,the reaction yield was 83.8%.
Synthesis of 4-nitro-a-bromo-cc,a-difluorotoluene was accomplished in two steps starting from 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, with a 30% overall yield. Radiolabeling of 4-nitro-a-bromo-a,r-difluorotoluene with no-carrier-added [‘*F]fluoride provided 4-nitro-cc,r-difluoro-a-[ ‘sF]fluorotoluene in 24% yields with a specific activity of 2590 GBq/mmol (70 Ci/mmol). The effect of the reaction temperature on the radiochemical yield and specific activity of the radiolabeling reaction was studied. Radiochemical yields increased, whereas specific activity decreased, with increasing temperature. Radiosynthesis of [ ‘8F]fluoxetine involved coupling of 4-nitro-a,a-difluoro-cz-[ @F]fluorotoluene with the sodium alkoxide of (S)-3-(methylamino)-lphenyl-I-propanol. The overall yield of HPLC purified [ ‘8F]fluoxetine was l-2% (decay-corrected; total radiosynthesis time, 150-180 min). The specific activity of the product was 1480 GBq/mmol(40 Ci/mmol).
Abstract Voltage-dependent potassium channels (Kv) are involved in various cellular signalling processes by governing the membrane potential of excitable cells. The cytosolic face of these α subunit-containing channels is associated with β subunits that can modulate channel responses. Surprisingly, the β subunit of the mammalian Kv1 channels, Kvβ2, has a high level of sequence homology with the aldo–keto reductase (AKR) superfamily of proteins. Recent studies have shown that Kvβ2 can catalyze the reduction of aldehydes and, most significantly, that channel function is modulated when Kvβ2-bound NADPH is concomitantly oxidized. As a result, the redox chemistry of this subunit is crucial to understanding its role in K+ channel modulation. The present study has extended knowledge of the substrate profile of this subunit using a single turnover fluorimetric assay. Kvβ2 was found to catalyse the reduction of aromatic aldehyde substrates such as 2, 3 and 4-nitrobenzaldehydes, 4-hydroxybenzaldehyde, pyridine 2-aldehyde and benzaldehyde. The presence of an electron withdrawing group at the position para to the aldehyde in aromatic compounds facilitated reduction. Aliphatic aldehydes proved to be poor substrates. We devised a simple HPLC-based assay to identify Kvβ2 reaction products. Using this assay we showed, for the first time, that Kvβ2 can catalyze a slow aldehyde dismutation reaction using 4-nitrobenzaldehyde as substrate and have identified the products of this reaction. The ability of Kvβ2 to carry out both an aldehyde reduction and a dismutation reaction is discussed in the light of current thinking on the role of redox chemistry in channel modulation.
A novel and robust binaphthyl-based amino acid was designed and successfully applied to the direct asymmetric aldol reaction. In some cases, this catalyst leads to higher yields and selectivities than the well-known proline catalyst. For instance, the direct asymmetric aldol reaction of acetone with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde in the presence of the binaphthyl-based amino acid catalyst proceeded smoothly to give the aldol adduct in 82% yield with 95% ee. This catalyst was also found to catalyze effectively the reactions of cyclic or unsymmetrical ketones to give the corresponding aldol adducts with excellent diastereo- and enantioselectivities.
We described results of comparative studies of the application of Ce(III) cation supported on macroporous weakly acidic polyacrylate resin as catalyst in two model three-component domino syntheses, i.e. Kabachnik-Fields domino synthesis of α-aminophosphonates, and Prins-Ritter domino synthesis of 4-amidotetrahydropyrane derivatives, respectively. It was discovered that cation Ce(III) supported on a weak acid macroporous cation-exchanger shown in the studied reactions at least the same or better catalytic activity as salt CeCl3.7H2O, eventually doped by NaI. Further, we found that reactivity of the low reactive 4-methoxybenzaldehyde as carbonyl compounds in the presence of Ce(III) catalyst increases, while the reactivity of the highly reactive 4-nitrobenzaldehyde in this case strongly decreases due to its low coordination with the catalyst. Finally, the presented synthetic protocols using cerium(III) supported on low-cost industrial resin further increases green impact of studied domino syntheses of α-aminophosphonates, and 4-amidotetrahydropyrane derivatives.
In this work, nanosized Cu and Ni Schiff-base complexes, namely ahpvCu, ahpnbCu, and ahpvNi, incorporating imine ligands derived from the condensation of 2-amino-3-hydroxypyridine, with either 3-methoxysalicylaldehyde (ahpv) or 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (ahpnb), were synthesized using sonochemical approach. The structure and properties of the new ligands and their complexes with Ni(II) and Cu(II) were determined via infrared (IR), nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR), electronic spectra (UV-Vis), elemental analysis (CHN), thermal gravimetric analysis (TGA), molar conductivity (Λ m ), and magnetic moment (µ eff ). The combined results revealed the formation of 1:1 (metal: ligand) complexes for ahpvCu and ahpvNi and 1:2 for ahpnbCu. Additionally, CuO and NiO nanoparticles were prepared by calcination of the respective nanosized Cu/Ni complexes at 500 • C, and characterized by powder X-ray diffraction (XRD) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Significantly, the as-prepared nanosized Schiff-base Cu/Ni complexes and their oxides showed remarkable catalytic activity towards the selective oxidation of benzyl alcohol (BzOH) in aqueous H 2 O 2 / dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) solution. Thus, catalytic oxidation of BzOH to benzaldehyde (BzH) using both ahpvCu complex and CuO nanoparticles in H 2 O 2 /DMSO media at 70 • C for 2 h yielded 94% and 98% BzH, respectively, with 100% selectivity.
Herein, we extend the information on the substrate profile for this subunit in an attempt to identify compounds capable of interacting with Kvβ2. We identify the reduced reaction products for its optimum substrate, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde. In addition, the ability of Kvβ2 to catalyze an aldehyde dismutation reaction is established for 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and reduced and oxidized reaction products identified.
This work outlines two different projects. The first project was the study of a stereodivergent oxy-Michael cyclisation and its application towards the synthesis of natural products, diospongin A, diospongin B and psymberin/ircinistatin A. ::: The α,β-unsaturated thioesters under TBAF-mediated conditions gave the 2,6-trans-tetrahydropyran; under acid-mediated conditions gave the 2,6-cis-tetrahydropyran. The 4-hydroxyl group is crucial for the stereodivergence; when the hydroxyl group was removed or protected the stereodivergence vanished. ::: The second project was the study of (L)-proline benzyl ester-catalysed asymmetric aldol reactions in water. The reaction was carried out in a pH 7 buffered aqueous solution of cyclohexanone and a series of aryl aldehydes to provide anti aldol products in 7-89% ee. ::: The aldol reaction between various ketone donors with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde under the same conditions were also developed to provide products in 13-61% ee.
Novozym-435-initiated reaction of cyclohexanones, nitrostyrenes, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, and acetamide results in the formation of spirooxazines in a single step.
Abstract An efficient enantioselective synthesis of (−)-chloramphenicol ( 1 ) and (+)-thiamphenicol ( 2 ) is described. These antibiotics have been synthesized from commercially available 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and 4-(methylthio)benzaldehyde, respectively, using tethered aminohydroxylation and Sharpless asymmetric epoxidation as the chirality inducing steps.
Here we describe a potassium tert-butoxide-mediated regioselective direct C-S bond formation at the C(sp3)-H position of nitrotoluenes with disulfides in DMSO at room temperature. The developed reaction generated, in good yields, various dithioacetals having OMe, halogen, and NH2 functionalities at various positions of the arene rings of the disulfides. Interestingly, in the absence of nitrotoluene, diaryl disulfides and diselenides underwent one-carbon homologation to form dithioacetals and diselenoacetals. Synthesized dithioacetals were transformed into 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and 7-(bis(phenylthio)methyl)-1H-indole.
EW biocidal compounds were synthesized by reacting 4-hydroxy acetophenone with ethyl cyanoacetate and 2-chlorobenzaldehydes and ammonium acetate in absolute ethanol to give 4-(2-chlorophenyl)-2-hydroxy-6-(4-hydroxyphenyl) nicotinonitrile which by epoxidation gives 4-(2-chlorophenyl)-6-(4-(oxiran-2-ylmethoxy) phenyl)-2-oxo-1,2-dihydropyridine-3-carbonitrile. Another compound was synthesized by reacting 4-hydroxy acetophenone with ethyl cyanoacetate and 4-nitrobenzaldehydes and ammonium acetate in absolute ethanol to give 2-hydroxy-6-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-4-(4-nitrophenyl)nicotinonitrile witch by epoxidation gives 4-(4-nitrophenyl)-6-(4-(oxiran-2-ylmethoxy) phenyl)-2-oxo-1,2-dihydropyridine-3-carbonitrile. The synthesized four compounds and standard biocide (Zn omadine) were added separately to LDPE and HDPE and polystyrene in the same ratio (0.1 phr) followed by studying the melt flow rate and mechanical properties and electrical properties of LDPE and HDPE and polystyrene. In addition the biological activity of the prepared blends with LDPE or HDPE or PS were studied against two local isolates E. coli sero type O145 as gram-negative bacteria and S. epidermidis as gram-positive bacteria The antimicrobial test was performed quantitatively using the standard test method.
Another reaction was done between 4-hydroxyacetophenone, ethyl cyanoacetate, 4-nitrobenzaldehydes, and ammonium acetate in absolute ethanol as a solvent was heated under reflux for 12 hours which give anew compound known as 2-hydroxy-6-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-4-(4-nitrophenyl)nicotinonitrile which by epoxidation give 4-(4-nitrophenyl) -6-(4-(oxiran-2-ylmethoxy) phenyl) -2-oxo-1,2-dihydropyridine-3-carbonitrile.
Amidination of human liver aldehyde reductase (alcohol:NADP+ oxidoreductase, EC 1.1.1.2) with monofunctional n-alkane methylimidates increased the enzymic activity by 10--30%, whereas analogous bifunctional imidoesters caused a loss of activity of about 80%. Both effects were prevented in the presence of the coenzyme NADPH or NADP+, but not of the substrate 4-nitrobenzaldehyde. Amidination increased the apparent Michaelis constant of both the coenzyme (up to 20-fold) and the substrate (about 5-fold). Bifunctional imidoesters with at least 4 carbon atoms between the functional groups (approx. 0.7 nm) crosslinked the enzyme intramolecularly. This reaction was retarded in the presence of the coenzyme, whereas 4-nitrobenzaldehyde had no effect. The results suggest the presence of reactive amino groups at the coenzyme binding site of aldehyde reductase.
Zwitterionic hybrid SBA-15 mesoporous silica materials containing both amine and sulfonic acid groups have been synthesized through cocondensation from as-synthesized zwitterionic siloxane precursors (ZS) with tetraethoxysilane (TEOS). Characterization by XRD, TEM, and N2 adsorption–desorption measurements show that the as-synthesized materials have ordered mesostructures. Analysis with UV, 29Si/13C cross-polarization magic angle spinning (CP-MAS) NMR, and X-ray photelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and elemental analysis demonstrates that the zwitterionic parts have been successfully introduced into the silica framework, and the organic contents of 15 % hybrid samples are over 1.0 mmol/g. The presence of a secondary organoamine group enables the hybrid material to be further alkalized to achieve the desired basic properties. The materials were used as catalysts for the aldol condensation of acetone with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde. With a good catalytic performance, the catalyst could be easily separated, recycled, and reactivated by secondary basification.
The benzylation and allylation of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (1) could be controlled chemoselectively by using different phase transfer catalyst (FTC) and different metal catalysts. And then, benzylation and allylation of 1 with various organic halides has been realized in high yields in aqueous media.
No-carrier-added DL-alpha-methyl-beta-4-[18F]fluorophenyl-N-methyl-N-propynylethylamin e (DL-4-[18F]fluorodeprenyl) was synthesized via the following 3-step procedure: (1) nucleophilic aromatic substitution by [18F]fluoride on 4-nitrobenzaldehyde to produce 4-[18F]fluorobenzaldehyde (yield 65%); (2) the reaction of 4-[18F]fluorobenzaldehyde with (1-chloro-1-(trimethylsilyl)ethyl)lithium followed by hydrolysis to give 4-[18F]fluorophenylacetone (yield 50%); and (3) reductive alkylation of 4-[18F]fluorophenylacetone with N-methyl-propynylamine in the presence of NaBH3CN (yield 35%) followed by HPLC purification to give a racemic mixture of 4-[18F]fluorodeprenyl. The overall yield was 11% (EOB corrected), the synthesis time was 90 min and the specific activity greater than 0.57 Ci/mumol (end of synthesis). This synthesis approach, the conversion of an aromatic aldehyde to a homologous methyl ketone, extends the flexibility of the nucleophilic aromatic substitution reaction by applying it to the synthesis of radiotracers which do not bear electron-withdrawing activating groups on the aromatic ring. The tissue distribution of DL-4-[18F]fluorodeprenyl in mice at 1, 10 and 60 min was also measured and showed that metabolic defluorination was not significant. Clearance of radioactivity from brain after injection of DL-4-[18F]fluorodeprenyl was more rapid than that previously observed for [11C]L-deprenyl.
A UiO-66-MOF-based membrane UiO-66-TEM (1) was prepared by the assembly of methacrylamide-decorated UiO-66-NH-Met with a thiol side chain-attached polysiloxane (PSI-SH) via a photoinduced thiol–ene click reaction. The obtained membrane 1 can be a platform to support Au nanoparticles (Au NPs) to generate an Au–MOF–polymer composite membrane Au@UiO-66-TEM (2). 1 and 2 can be used to build highly efficient continuous flow-through membrane reactors for Knoevenagel condensation of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with malononitrile and 4-nitrophenol (4-NP) reduction at ambient temperature, respectively.
A bottom-up strategy was used for the synthesis of cross-linked copolymers containing the organocatalyst N-{(1R)-2′-{[(4-ethylphenyl)sulfonyl]amino}[1,1′-binaphthalen]-2-yl}-D-prolinamide derived from 2 (Scheme 1). The polymer-bound catalyst 5b containing 1% of divinylbenzene as cross-linker showed higher catalyst activity in the aldol reaction between cyclohexanone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde than 5a and 5c. Remarkably, the reaction in the presence of 5b was carried out under solvent-free, mild conditions, achieving up to 93% ee (Table 1). The polymer-bound catalyst 5b was recovered by filtration and re-used up to seven times without detrimental effects on the achieved diastereo- and enantioselectivities (Table 2). The catalytic procedure with polymer 5b was extended to the aldol reaction under solvent-free conditions of other ketones, including functionalized ones, and different aromatic aldehydes (Table 3). In some cases, the addition of a small amount of H2O was required to give the best results (up to 95% ee). Under these reaction conditions, the cross-aldol reaction between aldehydes proceeded in moderate yield and diastereo- and enantioselectivity (Scheme 2).
We have prepared a range of well-defined copolymers of styrene and L-proline functionalized styrene (5-11 kDa) using reversible addition-fragmentation chain transfer (RAFT) polymerization techniques and explored their use in supported catalysis. Upon deprotection of the L-proline functionalities, the solution self-assembly of these copolymers was investigated in mixed solvent systems. The resulting assemblies were characterized by dynamic light scattering, transmission electron microscopy (on graphene oxide substrates, along with cryo-TEM and tomography), and scanning electron microscopy. The application of these functional assemblies as supported catalysts for the aldol condensation reaction was explored using cyclohexanone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde. The rate and selectivity of solution catalysis in our self-assembled system were comparable to those of L-proline, and a significant advantage of our system was that the polymer support could be utilized at lower catalyst loadings with comparable activity and also could be recycled a number of times while maintaining activity and selectivity.
Organocatalyzed enantioselective reactions 1 have been proposed as ideal green processes, 2 as these procedures use only small organic molecules as catalysts in the absence of any type of metal. The epitome, among these processes, is the enantioselective cross-aldol reaction. 3 However, a close look at the reaction, as well as the synthetic protocols, forecasts some aspects that must not be obviated, concerning the twelve principles of Green Chemistry. 4 The first reported organocatalyzed enantioselective crossaldol reaction 5 showed that natural proline is an excellent catalyst for the reaction between acetone (1a) and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (2a), rendering the expected product 3a in good yield (Scheme 1). The chosen solvent, to improve the catalyst solubility, was DMSO; although the large excess of acetone used might also play a role as a solvent. The presence of large amounts of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) as the reaction medium makes the whole process not so "green" from an environmental point of view. This is due to the intrinsic toxicity of DMSO, 6 and the minimum sustainability, since the organic solvent comes from a finite resource such as petroleum.
Carbonyl reductase (CR) is an enzyme which can catalyze the oxidoreduction of various carbonyl compounds in the presence of NAD(P)H. With the PCR method, using primers carrying the conserved nucleotide sequence among mammalian CRs, we isolated three different cDNAs (CHCR1, CHCR2 and CHCR3) which encode a unique carbonyl reductase from the Chinese hamster. The PCR products of CHCR1 and CHCR2 were clearly isolated with Bpu1102I, BspEI and XmaI restriction enzymes. The nucleotide-sequence of CHCR3 was completely different from those of CHCR1 and CHCR2. The predicted double-wound betaalphabetaalpha-structures of the CHCRs suggests the presence of a typical NADP(+)-binding motif and is similar to the corresponding region of 3alpha,20beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase and mouse lung tetrameric carbonyl reductase. The deduced amino acid sequence of CHCR1 showed a high homology to CHCR2 (>96%) and the other mammalian CRs (>81%). However, CHCR3 showed a high homology to human CBR3 (>86%) and a relatively lower homology to the other CHCRs (<76%). Bacterial recombinant CHCRs showed typical carbonyl reductase activities towards 4-benzoylpyridine, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and pyridine 4-carboxyaldehyde. These three CRs showed not only 3-keto reductase of steroids, but also 20-keto reductase. However, these CRs did not show any activity of 17-keto reductase activity. Both CHCR1 and CHCR2 have prostaglandin 9-keto reductase and 15-hydroxyprostaglandin dehydrogenase activities towards PGE(2) and PGF(2alpha) from the analyses of enzymatic reaction products. The results of Western blotting and RT-PCR suggest these CHCRs have a tissue-dependent-distribution in the Chinese hamster.
Commercially available protease from Bacillus licheniformis has been used in different non-conventional biotransformations showing remarkable activity values. The promiscuous behaviour of this enzyme used in the cross-linked enzyme aggregates immobilized form (Alcalase-CLEA®), has been successfully demonstrated for the first time in CC bond formation processes such as aldol, Henry and Mannich reactions. On the other hand, the Bayllis–Hillman reaction between 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and methyl vinyl ketone occurred through unspecific catalysis. Interestingly, aza- Michael addition reactions of secondary amines (diethylamine, piperidine and pyrrolidine) to acrylonitrile have been also efficiently catalyzed, observing with diethylamine the most remarkable differences between the enzyme-mediated reaction and the one in the absence of catalyst. Higher reactivities were attained with pyrrolidine demonstrating the versatility of hydrolases in organic synthesis.
To date syntheses of nitrogen-doped TiO2 photocatalysts (TiO2-xNx) have been carried out under high temperatures and high pressures with either NH3 or urea as the nitrogen sources. This article reports for the first time the facile preparation of N-doped TiO2 (P25 titania) in aqueous media at ambient temperature and pressure under inert conditions (Ar- and N2-purged dispersions) with 4-nitrophenol (or 4-nitrobenzaldehyde) as the nitrogen source. The resulting N-doped P25 TiO2 materials were characterized by UV/Vis and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopies (XPS) that confirmed the presence of nitrogen within the photocatalyst; X-ray diffraction (XRD) techniques confirmed the crystalline phases of the doped material. The photocatalytic activity of N-doped TiO2 was assessed through examining the photodegradation of 4-chlorophenol in aqueous media and iso-propanol as a volatile pollutant under UV/Vis and visible-light irradiation. Under visible light irradiation, undoped P25 was inactive contrary to N-doped P25 that successfully degraded 95% of the 4-chlorophenol (after 10 h) and 23% of iso-propanol (after 2.5 h).
The oxidative condensation reaction of 4-nitrotoluene-2-sulfonic acid(NTS) was carried out by continuous stirred tank(CSTR),which was linked by two stirred tank.The stepped control process was applied to this reaction.It showed that the conversion of NTS to 4,4′-dinitrobibenzyl-2,2′-disulfonic acid(DND)could be completed well by reasonably control of feed concentration,reaction temperature and basic concentration.The feed concentration has a great influence on the oxidative condensation reaction of NTS.The high feed concent-ration was easy to aggravate the generation of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde-2-sulfonic acid(NBS)and 4-nitro-2-sulfobenzoic acid(NSB)as by-products.The optimum feed concentration was 20%,at which the oxidation reaction was carried out smoothly.Compared with traditional batch process,the volume of wastewater and the consumption of basic liquid decreased by 38.3%,48.25% respectively,and the equipment capacity increased by 38.3%.The production process was more stable.
The representative Baylis-Hillman (B-H) reaction of cyclopent-2-enone coupled with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde in the presence of imidazole was accelerated by using electric field as well as temperature manipulation in microreactors. The electric field was used to promote B-H reaction for the first time, the rate was approximately 4.0-fold to 5.2-fold than carried out in conventional vessels.
L-Proline catalysts have been immobilised in the hydrophobic domain of a polymersome via a copper(I)-catalysed azide–alkyne cycloaddition (CuAAC) reaction. Utilisation of these nanoreactors in the asymmetric aldol reaction of cyclohexanone with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde afforded the corresponding β-hydroxyketones in quantitative yields and with excellent enantio- and diastereoselectivities. The polymersomes were recycled up to five times without any loss in activity or selectivity.
Aldol reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with acetone gives 4-(4-nitrophenyl)-4-hydroxy-2-butanone in high yield in the presence of both secondary amine and mesoporous silica, whereas the yield is low in the absence of the mesoporous silica.
Piperidine—mediated reactions of 2-acylphenols and 4-nitrobenzaldehydes afforded 3-benzofuranones in high yield (82–95%) at reflux temperature in ethanol. The electron density calculation of HOMO–LUMO energy in the chalcone intermediates by DFT showed the influence of the 4-nitro group and alkyl chain at C-2 position for the regioselective products. However, the reaction of 2- and 3-nitrobenzaldehydes with 2-acylphenols afforded flavones and flavanones, respectively, under the same reaction conditions. The substituent position effects were further studied in respect of 2-, 3- and 4-nitro substituted benzaldehydes and 2-acylphenols in the product formation.
A screening of different metal triflates as catalysts was performed to get isochromans through an oxa-Pictet- Spengler reaction. Good to high yields were obtained for various aliphatic or aromatic aldehydes and ￻ -arylethanols. A mechanism involving catalysis by in situ liberated triflic acid to catalyse the isochroman ring formation is proposed. In the previous work, we described the synthesis of iso(thio)chromans from 2-phenylethanol derivatives or 2- phenylethanethiol and different aldehydes in the presence of catalytic amounts of bismuth(III) triflate (9). The catalytic activity of Bi(OTf)3 could be attributed to traces of triflic acid generated in situ (10). The numerous advantages of metal catalysts make them highly attractive for chemical synthesis from environmental and economic points of view. In this study, we disclose the usefulness of metal triflate to provide isochroman from ￻ -aryl ethanol. This work provides also insights into the catalytic role of metal triflates in the reaction. We have also examined the scope of the reaction in the presence of different reactants. Initially, the condensation of 3,4-dimethoxyphenyl ethanol (1 eq) and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (1 eq) was used as a model reaction for the screening of seven different metal triflate catalysts. The reaction was carried out in toluene at 80°C in the presence of a catalytic amount (0.01 eq) of metal triflate. The reaction was monitored by TLC analysis following the disappearance of the starting alcohol. The reaction was completed in maximum 1.5h and isochroman was obtained in almost quantitative yield (entries 2-8, Table 1) after work- up and silica gel purification. The same reaction was realized in the absence of metal to recover essentially the starting material and the isochroman product in 16% yield after 18 hours (entry 1, Table 1).
Abstract 4-Nitrobenzaldehyde reacts with sulphur tetrafluoride in the absence of solvent to give a 94% yield of bis-(4-nitro- α-fluorobenzyl) ether. The reaction in benzene solution gives 4-nitrobenzylidene fluoride as the only product.
A straightforward reaction path towards chiral primary amines bearing α-amino acid and benzo[d]imidazole pendants has been developed. Six starting essential α-amino acids were converted into the target chiral amines in a four-step synthesis. The prepared amines were screened as organocatalysts in the direct asymmetric aldol reaction between 4-nitrobenzaldehyde or isatin and acetone or cyclohexanone. The aldol adducts were obtained in good chemical yields, diastereoselectivity­ up to 97:3 (reactions with cyclohexanone), and enantioselectivity up to 71% ee. Trifluoroacetic acid and benzoic acid proved to be the best cocatalysts for the aldol process on 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and isatin, respectively.
The novel Pro/SBA-15 catalyst was prepared using SBA-15 zeolite as the support to immobilize L-proline(Pro) derivatives,which was synthesized from 4-hydroxy-L-proline.The Pro/SBA-15 catalyst was characterized by X-ray diffraction,N2 adsorption-desorption,scanning electron microscopy,and infrared spectroscopy.The catalytic performance of the catalyst was measured for asymmetric Mannich reaction.The results indicated that the mesoporous structure of SBA-15 was not affected by immobilization,however,the pore diameter,pore volume,and BET surface area were decreased.The Pro/SBA-15 catalyst had higher catalytic activity and enantioselectivity.Using 4-nitrobenzaldehyde as the reactant,the Mannich reaction product was obtained with high yield(80%) and moderate enantioselectivity(ee=60%).The supported catalyst could be easily separated from the reaction system and reused at least four times without loss of activity and enantioselectivity.
Abstract The rates of the Wittig reactions between 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and five stabilized phosphoranes, Ph3P=CHC(O)R, where R = OMe, OPh, NPh2, Me, and Ph, are studied in benzene, dimethyl formamid (DMF), and methanol, at 25, 35, and 45°C. The activation energies, E, when plotted as function of the corresponding activation entropies, ΔS∗, are found in two different regions in the E – ΔS∗ diagram, approximately described by two parallel lines, one belonging to the reactions in benzene and DMF, the other to the reactions in methanol. The differences in the activation parameters in aprotic and protic solvents are most likely a consequence of strong H-bonding in protic solvents. Reaction mechanisms in aprotic and protic solvents are discussed.
We investigate the catalytic properties of water-soluble Aun(SG)m nanocluster catalysts (H-SG = glutathione) of different sizes, including Au15(SG)13, Au18(SG)14, Au25(SG)18, Au38(SG)24, and captopril-capped Au25(Capt)18 nanoclusters. These Aun(SR)m nanoclusters (SR represents thiolate generally) are used as homogeneous catalysts (i.e., without supports) in the chemoselective hydrogenation of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (4-NO2PhCHO) to 4-nitrobenzyl alcohol (4-NO2PhCH2OH) with ∼100% selectivity in water using H2 gas (20 bar) as the hydrogen source. These nanocluster catalysts, except Au18(SG)14, remain intact after the catalytic reaction, evidenced by UV–vis spectra, which are characteristic of nanoclusters of each size and thus serve as spectroscopic “fingerprints”. We observe a drastic size dependence and steric effect of protecting ligands on the gold nanocluster catalysts in the hydrogenation reaction. Density functional theory (DFT) modeling of the 4-nitrobenzaldehyde adsorption shows that both the -CHO and ...
Treatment of [RuCl2(PPh3)3]2 with the azine phosphine Z,E-PPh2CH2C(But)N–NC(Me)But3a, derived from MeC(O)But, gave the δ-agostic tert-butyl complex mer,trans-[RuCl2(PPh3){PPh2CH2C(But)N–NC(Me)But}]4a, in which all nine hydrogens of the tert-butyl group are agostically interacting with ruthenium on the NMR time-scale at 20°C. The analogous δ-agostic tert-butyl complex mer,trans-[RuCl2(PPh3){PPh2CH2C(But)N–NC(H)But}]4b was also prepared. Treatment of 2 with the symmetrical azine diphosphine Z,Z-PPh2CH2C(But)N–NC(But)CH2PPh25 gave the δ-agostic tert-butyl complex mer,trans-[RuCl2(PPh3){PPh2CH2C(But)N–NC(But)CH2PPh2}]6, in which one of the PPh2 groups is unco-ordinated. Treatment of 2 with the azine phosphine Z,E-PPh2CH2C(But)N–NC10H167, derived from pinacolone–fenchone mixed azine, gave the δ-agostic methyl complex mer,trans-[RuCl2(PPh3){PPh2CH2C(But)N–NC10H16}]8, in which the methyl group (C10H3) in the 1-position of the fenchone residue interacts with ruthenium (fenchone = 1,3,3-trimethylbicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-one). The unsymmetrical camphor azine monophosphine Z,Z-PPh2C10H15N–NC10H169 also gave a similar δ-agostic methyl complex mer,trans-[RuCl2(PPh3){PPh2-C10H15N–NC10H16}]10(camphor = 1,7,7-trimethylbicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-one). Treatment of 2 with the azine Z,E-PPh2CH2C(But)N–NCH(C6H4NMe2-4)11a, derived from 4-dimethylaminobenzaldehyde, gave the δ-agostic complex mer,trans-[RuCl2(PPh3){PPh2CH2C(But)N–NCH(C6H4NMe2-4)}]12a, in which the hydrogens in the 2 and 6 positions of the aryl group are agostically interacting with ruthenium. Similarly, the azines 11b and 11c, derived from 4-methoxybenzaldehyde or 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, gave the δ-agostic complexes 12b and 12c, respectively. Treatment of 2 with the azine 13, derived from 1-methylpyrrole-2-carbaldehyde, gave the δ-agostic complex 14, in which the hydrogen in the 3-position of the heterocyclic group is agostically interacting with ruthenium. Treatment of 2 with the azine 15, derived from benzylideneacetone, gave the δ-agostic alkenyl complex 16. Proton, 31P-{1H} and some 13C-{1H} NMR data are given.
We address the role of the energetics of photogenerated electrons in the reduction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde on TiO2. This model molecule bears two functional groups featuring different reducibilities. Electrochemistry shows that reduction to 4-aminobenzyl alcohol occurs in entirely distinct potential ranges. Partial reduction of the -NO2 group, affording 4-aminobenzaldehyde, takes place through surface states at potentials positive of the flatband potential (E(fb)). Dark currents caused by reduction of the aldehyde group are observed only at potentials more negative than E(fb), and the process requires an electron accumulation regime. Photocatalysis with TiO2 suspensions agrees with the electrochemical data. In particular, reduction of the nitro group is a relatively fast process (k=0.059 s(-1)), whereas that of the aldehyde group is slower (k=0.001 s(-1)) and requires electron photoaccumulation. Control of the photogenerated charge is a prospective means for achieving chemoselective reductions.
In an effort to determine the details of the solid-state reaction mechanism of the Friedel–Crafts hydroxyalkylation between indole derivatives (indole, 1A, and N-methylindole, 1B) and an aromatic aldehyde (4-nitrobenzaldehyde), a series of solid-state NMR experiments have been performed. The reaction proceeds through a melted phase. By means of the DE pulse sequence the hydroxylic intermediate species (1H-indol-3-yl)(4-nitrophenyl)methanol (3A) and (1-methyl-1H-indol-3-yl)(4-nitrophenyl)methanol (3B) in the melt could be observed and characterized, providing evidence for elucidating the reaction mechanism. To support the experimental results, DFT calculations have been carried out showing that the first step of the reaction involving indole and nitrobenzaldehyde to give the intermediate 3A is energetically favored by 24.7 kJ mol−1, whereas the final product 3,3′-((4-nitrophenyl)methylene)bis(3a,7a-dihydro-1H-indole) (5A) is 54.8 kJ mol−1 lower in energy than the reactants. The calculated and experimental chemical shifts are also in good agreement providing further support to the proposed mechanism.
The activity and recyclability of Cu-MOF-74 as a catalyst was studied for the ligand-free C–O cross-coupling reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (NB) with phenol (Ph) to form 4-formyldiphenyl ether (FDE). Cu-MOF-74 is characterized by having unsaturated copper sites in a highly porous metal-organic framework. The influence of solvent, reaction temperature, NB/Ph ratio, catalyst concentration, and basic agent (type and concentration) were evaluated. High conversions were achieved at 120 °C, 5 mol % of catalyst, NB/Ph ratio of 1:2, DMF as solvent, and 1 equivalent of K2CO3 base. The activity of Cu-MOF-74 material was higher than other ligand-free copper catalytic systems tested in this study. This catalyst was easily separated and reused in five successive runs, achieving a remarkable performance without significant porous framework degradation. The leaching of copper species in the reaction medium was negligible. The O-arylation between NB and Ph took place only in the presence of Cu-MOF-74 material, being negligible without the solid catalyst. The catalytic advantages of using nanostructured Cu-MOF-74 catalyst were also proven.
Novel optically active polymers containing pendant proline moieties, poly{(−)-L- and (+)-D-proline-[5-(4′-tert-butylphenyl)-3-vinylpyridin-2-yl]amide}, were prepared through radical polymerization of (−)-L- and (+)-D-N-Boc-proline-[5-(4′-tert-butylphenyl)-3-vinylpyridin-2-yl]amide, followed by de-protection of the Boc group. Polarimetry and circular dichroism spectroscopy studies indicated that these polymers took chiral secondary structures. They were employed to catalyze the homogeneous asymmetric aldol reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with cyclohexanone. The polymeric catalysts showed obviously enhanced reaction rate but slightly reduced enantio-selectivity compared with (−)-L- and (+)-D-proline-[5-(4′-tert-butylphenyl)-3-vinylpyridin-2-yl]amide, the low molar mass counterparts. The lowered enantio-selectivity of the polymeric catalyst might be attributed to the antagonistic action of the configurational chirality of the side-group and the conformational chirality of the polymer backbone on the stereochemistry of aldol reaction.
The activity and recyclability of Cu-MOF-74 as a catalyst was studied for the ligand-free C-O cross-coupling reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (NB) with phenol (Ph) to form 4-formyldiphenyl ether (FDE). Cu-MOF-74 is characterized by having unsaturated copper sites in a highly porous metal-organic framework. The influence of solvent, reaction temperature, NB/Ph ratio, catalyst concentration, and basic agent (type and concentration) were evaluated. High conversions were achieved at 120 • C, 5 mol % of catalyst, NB/Ph ratio of 1:2, DMF as solvent, and 1 equivalent of K 2 CO 3 base. The activity of Cu-MOF-74 material was higher than other ligand-free copper catalytic systems tested in this study. This catalyst was easily separated and reused in five successive runs, achieving a remarkable performance without significant porous framework degradation. The leaching of copper species in the reaction medium was negligible. The O-arylation between NB and Ph took place only in the presence of Cu-MOF-74 material, being negligible without the solid catalyst. The catalytic advantages of using nanostructured Cu-MOF-74 catalyst were also proven.
A periodic mesoporous organosilica (PMO) that contains ethylene bridges was functionalized to obtain a series of cooperative acid-base catalysts. A straightforward, single-step procedure was devised to immobilize cysteine and cysteamine on the support material by means of a photoinitiated thiol-ene click reaction. Likewise, PMO materials capped with hexamethyldisilazane (HMDS) were used to support both compounds. This resulted in different materials in which the amine site was promoted by carboxylic acid groups, surface silanol groups, or both. The catalysts were tested in the aldol reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and acetone. It was found that silanol groups have a stronger promoting effect on the amine than the carboxylic acid group. The highest turnover frequency (TOF) was obtained for an amine-functionalized material that contained only silanol promoting sites. The loading of the active sites also had a significant effect on the activity of the catalysts, which was rationalized on the basis of a computational study.
Abstract A new family of bile acid derived organocatalysts was obtained by linking l - or d -proline to amino derivatives of cholic and deoxycholic acids, which were used to promote the asymmetric direct aldol reaction between acetone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde. Both the activity and enantioselectivity of the organocatalytic systems were dependent not only on the position of the proline moiety on the cholestanic backbone and its absolute configuration, but also on the presence of free hydroxyl group on the steroidal skeleton. The cholic acid derivative bearing a d -prolinamide moiety at the 12-position and free hydroxyl groups at the 3- and 7-positions emerged as the best organocatalytic system giving complete conversion of the substrate, even when using only 2% of catalyst loading and ee up to 80%.
Abstract Porous organic frameworks (POFs) are emerging as an important class of porous materials. The absence of functional groups in POFs, however, renders them relatively nonspecific as porous materials for applications such as in heterogeneous chiral catalysis. Although pre- and post-synthetic modifications have been developed for the functionalization of POFs, the introduction of functional groups into POFs remains a great challenge. Herein we have advanced a facile and versatile strategy to uniformly incorporate targeted functional groups into defect porous organic frameworks (dPOFs) by one-pot copolymerization of low-connected functional and primitive multi-connected building blocks. Based on this strategy, four proline-functionalized dPOFs were readily synthesized and developed as new platforms for heterogeneous chiral organocatalysis. The as-prepared dPOFs show higher catalytic activity and superior enantioselectivity than that of their homogeneous counterpart l -proline in the catalytic direct aldol reaction between 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and acetone, and could be reused at least five times without significant loss of catalytic activity and enantioselectivity.
Complementary DNA clones encoding human aflatoxin B(1) aldehyde reductase (AKR7A2), aldehyde reductase (AKR1A1), aldose reductase (AKR1B1), dihydrodiol dehydrogenase 1 (AKR1C1) and chlordecone reductase (AKR1C4) have been expressed in Escherichia coli. These members of the aldo-keto reductase (AKR) superfamily have been purified from E. coli as recombinant proteins. The recently identified AKR7A2 was shown to differ from the AKR1 isoenzymes in being able to catalyse the reduction of 2-carboxybenzaldehyde. Also, AKR7A2 was found to exhibit a narrow substrate specificity, with activity being restricted to succinic semialdehyde (SSA), 2-nitrobenzaldehyde, pyridine-2-aldehyde, isatin, 1,2-naphthoquinone (1,2-NQ) and 9,10-phenanthrenequinone. In contrast, AKR1A1 reduces a broad spectrum of carbonyl-containing compounds, displaying highest specific activity for SSA, 4-carboxybenzaldehyde, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, pyridine-3-aldehyde, pyridine-4-aldehyde, 4-hydroxynonenal, phenylglyoxal, methylglyoxal, 2,3-hexanedione, 1, 2-NQ, 16-ketoestrone and d-glucuronic acid. Comparison between the kinetic properties of AKR7A2 and AKR1A1 showed that both recombinant enzymes exhibited roughly similar k(cat)/K(m) values for SSA, 1,2-NQ and 16-ketoestrone. Many of the compounds which are substrates for AKR1A1 also serve as substrates for AKR1B1, though the latter enzyme was shown to display a specific activity significantly less than that of AKR1A1 for most of the aromatic and aliphatic aldehydes studied. Neither AKR1C1 nor AKR1C4 was found to possess high reductase activity towards aliphatic aldehydes, aromatic aldehydes, aldoses or dicarbonyls. However, unlike AKR1A1 and AKR1B1, both AKR1C1 and AKR1C4 were able to catalyse the oxidation of 1-acenaphthenol and, in addition, AKR1C4 could oxidize di- and tri-hydroxylated bile acids. Specific antibodies raised against AKR7A2, AKR1A1, AKR1B1, AKR1C1 and AKR1C4 have been used to show the presence of all of the reductases in human hepatic cytosol; the levels of AKR1B1 and AKR1C1 were markedly elevated in livers with alcohol-associated injury, and indeed AKR1B1 was only detectable in livers with evidence of alcoholic liver disease. Western blotting of extracts from brain, heart, kidney, liver, lung, prostate, skeletal muscle, small intestine, spleen and testis showed that AKR7A2 is present in all of the organs examined, and AKR1B1 is similarly widely distributed in human tissues. These experiments revealed however, that the expression of AKR1A1 is restricted primarily to brain, kidney, liver and small intestine. The AKR1C family members proved not to be as widely expressed as the other reductases, with AKR1C1 being observed in only kidney, liver and testis, and AKR1C4 being found in liver alone. As human kidney is a rich source of AKR, the isoenzymes in this organ have been studied further. Anion-exchange chromatography of human renal cytosol on Q-Sepharose allowed resolution of AKR1A1, AKR1B1, AKR1C1 and AKR7A2, as identified by substrate specificity and Western blotting. Immunohistochemistry of human kidney demonstrated that AKR7A2 is expressed in a similar fashion to the AKR1 family members in proximal and distal convoluted renal tubules. Furthermore, both AKR7A2 and AKR1 members were expressed in renal carcinoma cells, suggesting that these groups of isoenzymes may be engaged in related physiological functions.
Abstract A biphenyl-based axially chiral amino acid ( S )- 2 has been designed and synthesized. The new amino acid ( S )- 2 has been found to be a more efficient catalyst than ( S )- 1 in the direct asymmetric aldol reaction of acetone with aldehydes. For instance, the use of only 0.1 mol % of ( S )- 2 was sufficient to complete the reaction between acetone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, giving the corresponding aldol adduct in good yield with an excellent enantioselectivity.
Condensation of 3-aminocoumarin (5) with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (8) afforded a 2-azadiene (9), which reacted with various electron-rich alkenes (10 examples) in the presence of Yb(OTf)3 to afford 1,2,3,4-tetrahydropyrido[2,3-c]coumarins. Yields were generally good, but the diastereomeric ratios were highly variable. The products arose through a formal [4 + 2] cycloaddition (inverse electron demand Diels−Alder reaction) followed by tautomerization. As such, these are examples of the Povarov reaction. A range of 1,2,3,4-tetrahydropyrido[2,3-c]coumarins was then synthesized using a three-component version of this reaction, which involves in situ formation of the 2-azadiene component. Some of these products were converted into the corresponding pyrido[2,3-c]coumarins upon treatment with various oxidants, the most effective of which proved to be nitrous gases.
Periodic mesoporous organosilicas (PMOs) are materials derived from a bridged silane of the form (R′O) 3 Si-R-Si(OR′) 3 in which R represents a functional organic bridge. The functional both. The catalysts were tested in the aldol reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and acetone. It was found that silanol groups have a stronger promoting effect on the amine than the carboxylic acid group. The highest turnover frequency (TOF) was obtained for an amine-functionalized material that contained only silanol promoting sites. The loading of the active sites also had a significant effect on the activity of the catalysts, which was rationalized on the basis of a computational study.
In this work, the catalytic activity of the functionalized PMO materials in the aldol reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and acetone was investigated. The acid promoting properties of the carboxylic acid groups were compared to that of the silanol groups, which are intrinsically present on the PMO surface. Subsequently, the influence of the loading of the catalytic center was investigated, as well as the potential of inducing chirality in the reaction products.
Catalysts for the asymmetric Henry reaction involving 1,6-bis(3-ethoxy-2-hydroxyphenyl)-(3S,4S)-(−)-diphenyl-2,5-diazahexane (H22) and copper salts have been investigated. Conditions for the conversion of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde to 2-nitro-1-(4-nitrophenyl)ethanol by reaction with nitromethane have been optimized (5 mol% H22, 10 mol% CuI, THF, 295 K and 2 hours or 273 K and 12 hours) resulting in 99% yield and 90–92% ee. These catalytic conditions are effective for other aromatic aldehydes containing electron-withdrawing substituents, and for pyridine carbaldehydes; representative aliphatic aldehydes were converted to the respective β-hydroxynitro derivatives with good enantioselectivities, and in moderate yields. These catalytic conditions were found to be ineffective for simple aromatic aldehydes or those containing electron-releasing substituents.
Drugs currently used for treatment of Trypanosoma cruzi infection, the ethiological agent of Chagas' disease, have shown side effects and variable efficiency. With the aim to describe parasite enzymes involved in the mechanisms of action of trypanocidal drugs and since it has been reported that reductases are crucial in their metabolism, we attempted to identify novel NADPH-dependent oxido-reductases from T. cruzi. The percolation of a soluble fraction of epimastigote lysates through a Cibacron Blue-Sepharose column followed by elution by NADPH yielded a predominant protein with an apparent molecular weight of 32 kDa. This protein was identified by MALDI-TOF as an aldo-keto reductase (AKR) and hence denominated TcAKR. TcAKR was mainly localized in the cytosol and was also present in trypomastigote and amastigote lysates. The recombinant TcAKR (recTcAKR) showed NADPH-dependent reductase activity with the AKR substrates 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and 2-dihydroxyacetone. The saturation curves for both substrates were consistent with the Michaelis-Menten model. We also tested whether recTcAKR may reduce naphthoquinones (NQ), since many of these compounds have displayed important trypanocidal activity. recTcAKR reduced o-NQ (1,2-naphthoquinone, 9,10-phenanthrenquinone and beta-lapachone) with concomitant generation of free radicals but did not exhibit affinity for p-NQ (5-hydroxy-1,4-naphthoquinone, 2-hydroxy-1,4-naphthoquinone, alpha-lapachone and menadione). The substrate saturation curve with o-NQ fitted to a sigmoidal curve, suggesting that recTcAKR presents a cooperative behavior. In addition, three peaks assigned to monomers, dimers and tetramers were obtained when recTcAKR was submitted to a Superose 12 gel chromatography column. TcAKR is the first member of the AKR family described in T. cruzi. Our results indicate that this enzyme may participate in the mechanisms of action of trypanocidal drugs.
Herein, we report a base-promoted Zn(II)–bis(oxazoline)-catalyzed one-pot Friedel–Crafts alkylation/Michael addition of 3-(indol-4-yl)acrylonitrile derivatives with trans-β-nitrostyrenes to yield the tricyclic core of the ergoline skeleton in up to 71% yield and 85% ee. During the purification of 3-(indol-4-yl)acrylonitrile, the key substrate for catalytic studies, a novel trans-cis-trans-cyclobutane derivative, thought to be formed via a [2+2] light-promoted cycloaddition, was identified by X-ray crystallographic analysis. Finally, a novel class of 4-substituted bis(indole)methane derivatives were serendipitously prepared in excellent yield by reacting 4-substituted indole derivatives with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde. One bis(indole)methane was characterized by X-ray crystallographic analysis.
Stable nitrones are formed in the condensation of 5-hydroxylaminothiazolidine-2-thiones with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde. At the same time, nitrones obtained from the isomeric 4-hydroxylaminothiazolidine-2-thiones, as well as 4-hydroxylaminoimidazolidin-2-one, can undergo rearrangement to E- or Z-O-substituted 4-nitrobenzaldoximes, depending on the structure and the reaction conditions.
A strain of Pseudomonas spp. was isolated from nitrobenzene-contaminated soil on 4-nitrotoluene as the sole source of carbon, nitrogen, and energy. The organism also grew on 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, and 4-nitrobenzoate. 4-Nitrobenzoate and ammonia were detected in the culture fluid of glucose-grown cells after induction with 4-nitrotoluene. Washed suspensions of 4-nitrotoluene- or 4-nitrobenzoate-grown cells oxidized 4-nitrotoluene, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, 4-nitrobenzyl alcohol, and protocatechuate. Extracts from induced cells contained 4-nitrobenzaldehyde dehydrogenase, 4-nitrobenzyl alcohol dehydrogenase, and protocatechuate 4,5-dioxygenase activities. Under anaerobic conditions, cell extracts converted 4-nitrobenzoate or 4-hydroxylaminobenzoate to protocatechuate. Conversion of 4-nitrobenzoate to protocatechuate required NADPH. These results indicate that 4-nitrotoluene was degraded by an initial oxidation of the methyl group to form 4-nitrobenzyl alcohol, which was converted to 4-nitrobenzoate via 4-nitrobenzaldehyde. The 4-nitrobenzoate was reduced to 4-hydroxylaminobenzoate, which was converted to protocatechuate. A protocatechuate 4,5-dioxygenase catalyzed meta-ring fission of the protocatechuate. The detection of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and 4-nitrobenzyl alcohol dehydrogenase and 4-nitrotoluene oxygenase activities in 4-nitrobenzoate-grown cells suggests that 4-nitrobenzoate is an inducer of the 4-nitrotoluene degradative pathway.
Abstract A practical, efficient and accelerated oxidation of secondary alcohols to the corresponding ketones has been achieved at rt in high yields by a modified Oppenauer oxidation system using diisopropoxyaluminium trifluoroacetate as catalyst and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde as a hydride acceptor.
Conventional methods do not meet the clinical need for rapid cyanide measurements. We report a procedure which can provide a result in 10 min. It should be of particular interest to laboratories serving cardiac or renal units which use the hypotensive agent sodium nitroprusside, and burns units to which fire victims may be admitted suffering the effects of HCN from inhaled smoke. A sample of blood (100 microL) is mixed with H3PO4, containing a surfactant, and the HCN is trapped in an alkaline mixture of 1,2-dinitrobenzene and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde in 2-methoxyethanol. The catalytic action of cyanide, which produces purple 2-nitrophenylhydroxylamine, is stopped with acetone after 6 min. The absorbance measured at 560 nm shows a linear relationship with the cyanide concentration, but the slope varies with the ambient temperature. Since KCN added to both 50 mmol/L NaOH and blood gives similar assay results, any inaccuracy arising from changes in temperature can be avoided by running standards at the same time as the blood sample.
l-Proline amides derived from various chiral β-amino alcohols that bear substituents with various electron natures at their stereogenic centers are prepared and evaluated for catalyzing the direct Aldol reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with acetone. Catalysts with strong electron-withdrawing groups are found to exhibit higher catalytic activity and enantioselectivity than their analogues with electron-donating groups. The presence of 2 mol % catalyst 4g significantly catalyzes the direct Aldol reactions of a wide range of aldehydes with acetone and butanone, to give the β-hydroxy ketones with very high enantioselectivities ranging from 96% to >99% ee. High diastereoselectivity of 95/5 was observed for the anti Aldol product from the reaction of cyclohexanone, and excellent enantioselectivity of 93% ee was provided for anti Aldol product from the reaction of cyclopentanone.
Abstract Direct asymmetric aldol reactions between 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and cyclohexanone were catalysed by trans -4-hydroxy-( S )-prolinamide (10 mol %) in the presence of CH 3 COOH (10 mol %) as the co-catalyst under solvent-free conditions at 15 °C. (2 S ,4 R )-4-Hydroxy- N -(( S )-1-phenylethyl)pyrrolidine-2-carboxamide 2 efficiently catalysed the asymmetric aldol reaction to afford the product in >99% yield and with 95% ee with an anti / syn ratio of 88:12 after 18 h. The additional trans -hydroxyl group on ( S )-prolinamide and ( S )-1-phenylethylamine both influenced the ee of the predominant anti aldol product. Different benzaldehyde derivatives with cyclohexanone gave the corresponding aldol products in 38–89% yields and with 56–94% ee with anti / syn (100:0–71:29). Catalyst 2 can be used up to 5 continuous cycles for asymmetric aldol reactions between 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and cyclohexanone with overall 91% yield and 86% yield of anti -product with anti / syn (98:2).
Novel monometallic and dendritic SCS-pincer palladium complexes 2, 3 and 4 have been synthesized in good yields (60-89%) and high purity (palladium loading >97%). These complexes were successfully used as catalysts in the stannylation of cinnamyl chloride with hexamethylditin and in the catalytic auto-tandem reaction consisting of this stannylation followed by an electrophilic addition with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, showing similar reaction rates and selectivities for all complexes. Dendritic complex 4 has furthermore been used in the compartmentalized catalysis of single and auto-tandem reactions, allowing catalyst reuse for four consecutive runs.
Co, Ni and Cu complexes have been prepared by reacting metal chloride with 4-chlorobenzaldehyde oxime, 4-methylbenzaldehyde oxime, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde oxime, 4-chlorobenzaldehyde semicarbazone, 4-methyl- benzaldehyde semicarbazone, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde semicarbazone, 4-chloro benzaldehyde phenylhydrazone, 4-methylbenzaldehyde phenyl hydrazone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde phenylhydrazone and their antibacterial activity have been studied and compared with their ligands against E. coli which gave significant results of activity.
Proline catalysis of the asymmetric direct aldol reaction involves both the secondary amine function and the carboxyl group of the amino acid. N-Sulfonylcarboxamides are known to be of similar acidity as carboxylic acids, and three N-arylsulfonyl derivatives of L-proline amide were synthesized as functionalized and versatile derivatives of L-Pro. Their catalytic performance was evaluated in the direct aldol addition of acetone to 4-nitrobenzaldehyde. Significantly improved reactivities and enantioselectivities were achieved in various solvents at low catalyst loadings (5–10 mol %) and at room temperature, with ees ranging up to 98%, whereas L-proline itself afforded a maximum ee of 80% (in DMSO). Thus, N-arylsulfonyl derivatives of proline amide represent a novel class of highly enantioselective catalysts for direct aldol reactions. Furthermore, the N-arylsulfonyl substituent suggests possibilities for incorporation into larger catalyst assemblies (including immobilization) without affecting the catalytically active functional groups.
The asymmetric aldol addition of 2-butanone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde catalyzed by a novel thermophilic esterase (APE1547) from the archaeon Aeropyrum pernix K1 was successfully conducted in organic solvents. APE1547 exhibited a good enzyme activity and enantioselectivity in the reaction. The effects of organic solvent, temperature, water content, and substrate concentration were investigated. The reaction provided optically active secondary alcohol with satisfying enantioselectivity (71.2 %ee) and enzyme activity (38.1 µmol/g/h) under the optimum conditions. A high yield (68.7%) could be obtained when the reaction time was approximately 120 h.
Co, Ni and Cu complexes have been prepared by reacting metal chloride with 4-chlorobenzaldehyde oxime, 4-methylbenzaldehyde oxime, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde oxime, 4-chlorobenzaldehyde semicarbazone, 4-methylbenzaldehyde semicarbazone, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde semicarbazone, 4-chloro benzaldehyde phenylhydrazone, 4-methylbenzaldehyde phenyl hydrazone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde phenylhydrazone and their antibacterial activity have been studied and compared with their ligands against E. coli which gave significant results of activity.
Synthesis of various oximes, semicarbazones, phenyl hydrazones and their complexes with different transition metals are reported in the literature [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] and found to be active as antibacterial [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] , antitubercular 8 , antilepral 10 , antiviral 11 , antimalarial 12 and active against certain kinds of tumours 13, 14 . Considering the importance of such transition metal complexes and in continuation of our earlier work 3, 6, 9 , on transition metal complexes with oxime, semicarbazone and phenylhydrazone derivatives, in the present paper, synthesis, characterization and antibacterial activity of Co(II), Ni(II) and Cu(II) complexes with 4chlorobenzaldehyde oxime, 4-methylbenzaldehyde oxime, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde oxime, 4-chlorobenzaldehyde semicarbazone, 4-methylbenzaldehyde semicarbazone, 4-nitro benzaldehyde semicarbazone, 4-chlorobenzaldehyde phenylhydrazone, 4-methyl benzaldehyde phenylhydrazone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde phenylhydrazone are reported, and difference in antibacterial activity between the free ligands and complexes were studied with out any focusing on the structure of the complexes.
Oximes (1-3), semicarbazones (4-6) and phenyl hydrazones (7-9) have been synthesized from 4-chlorobenzaldehyde, 4-methylbenzaldehyde and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and used as ligands in formation of complexes of Co, Ni and Cu, which show satisfactory antibacterial activity against -ve E coli, in complexes but poor antibacterial activity against -ve E coli, in case of some free ligands. This might come from the difference in total electron density between the mentioned compounds. By means that some ligands have higher electron density than complexes which prevents the inhabitation throw the body of the bacteria.
ABSTRACT: A hydrophilic, water-insoluble polymer was prepared, starting from com-mercial poly(vinyl alcohol) that was crosslinked and functionalized by means of glutar-aldehyde and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde. The resulting beads were then reduced and subse-quently diazotized, and ﬁnally contained diazonium moieties capable of covalently cou-pling with electron-rich aromatic systems such as histidine and/or tyrosine residuesof proteins. The described resin is therefore well suitable for protein immobilizationwhenever lysine residues (those involved in covalent coupling with several popularimmobilization procedures) are not available and/or cannot be used unless the biologi-cal activity of the protein is destroyed. q 1997 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. J Appl Polym Sci 66: 1433–1438, 1997 Key words: poly(vinyl alcohol); acetalation; diazotization; immobilization INTRODUCTION In the present work, the preparation of a nitro-aromatic derivative of crosslinked PVA is de-Poly(vinyl alcohol) (PVA) is a hydrophilic, water- scribed that in turn was reduced to the corre-soluble polymer, readily available in a wide range sponding amino aromatic substance and ﬁnallyof molecular weights at a very low price.
Although the α-proton extraction from 4-nitrobenzyl bromide or iodide by alkali in aqueous dioxan is much faster than that from the chloride (as proved by comparing the rates of interception of the halogenocarbanions on 4-nitrobenzaldehyde to form epoxides), yet the formed bromo- or iodo-carbanion (stabilised by d-orbital resonance) does not undergo the α-elimination of bromide or iodide ion to give the carbene as does the corresponding chlorocarbanion (the carbene subsequently changes to 4,4′-dinitrostilbene) but reverts to the original halide which undergoes two faster successive SN2 halogen displacements by the alkali leading to the formation of 4,4′-dinitrodibenzyl ether. 3-Hydroxy-4-nitrobenzyl bromide gives one SN2 displacement of the halogen forming the alcohol.
The crystal structures of four bis-phenols are reported to substantiate the fact that the weak interactions play a major role in the crystal packing of bis-phenols. The reaction of 2,4-dimethylphenol with aldehydes such as 2-naphthaldehyde, terephthaldehyde in the presence of trifluoracetic acid gave 2-[bis(2-hydroxy 3,5-dimethylphenyl)methyl]naphthalene (1) and 4-[bis(2-hydroxy 3,5-dimethylphenyl) methyl]benzaldehyde (2), respectively. The 2-[bis-(2-hydroxy 3,5-dimethylphenyl)-methyl]naphthalene (1) crystallizes in orthorhombic, Pbca, a = 11.905(3) Å, b = 18.788(5) Å, c = 18.894(5) Å, 4-[bis(2-hydroxy 3,5-dimethylphenyl)methyl] benzaldehyde (2) in monoclinic, Cc, a = 8.880(3) Å, b = 16.394(7) Å, c = 13.700(5) Å, γ = 104.542(2)°. The reaction of 2-nitrobenzaldehyde with 2,4-dimethylphenol gave 2-benzo[c] isoxazo-3-yl 4,6-dimethylphenol (3) and its crystal parameters are orthorhombic, P212121, a = 7.737(6) Å, b = 11.885(9) Å, c = 13.336(8) Å. The reaction of 2,6-dimethylphenol with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and 2-chlorobenzaldehyde gave bis(4-hydroxy 3,5-dimethylphenyl)(4-nitrophenyl)methane (4) and bis(4-hydroxy 3,5-dimethylphenyl)(2-chlorophenyl)methane (5), respectively. The bis(4-hydroxy 3,5dimethylphenyl)(4-nitrophenyl)methane (4) crystallizes in monoclinic, C2/c, a = 25.921(1) Å, b = 12.202(4) Å, c = 15.6084(7) Å, β = 122.172(4)°, and bis(4-hydroxy 3,5-dimethylphenyl) (2-chlorophenyl)methane crystallizes as acetonitrile solvate (5) in triclinic, P-1, a = 12.314(3) Å, b = 14.111(3) Å, c = 15.078(5) Å, α = 98.268(2)°, β = 111.268(2)°, γ = 114.304(1)˚. The unit cell of 5 contains two pairs of crystallographically unsymmetric molecules of bis-phenols.Index abstractThe crystal structures of four bis-phenols are reported to substantiate the fact that the weak interactions plays a major role in crystal packing and can induce symmetry non-equivalence among bis-phenols in unit cell of bis-phenols.
Abstract Equilibrium solubility data were determined for binary systems of 2-nitrobenzaldehyde in ethanol, isopropanol, n-butanol, n-butyl acetate, acetone, ethyl acetate, toluene, cyclohexane, n-propanol and for ternary system of 2-nitrobenzaldehyde + 4-nitrobenzaldehyde + ethyl acetate by the static method under atmospheric pressure of 101.1 kPa. The binary systems were measured at T = 278.15, 280.65, 283.15, 285.65, 288.15, 290.65, 293.15, 295.65 and 298.15 K, and the ternary system were determined at the three temperatures of 278.15 K, 288.15 K and 298.15 K. The solubility of 2-nitrobenzaldehyde in neat solvents increased with increasing temperature, and obeyed the following order from high to low in the selected solvents: acetone > ethyl acetate > n-butyl acetate > toluene > ethanol > n-propanol > n-butanol > isopropanol > cyclohexane. Three isothermal phase diagrams were constructed according to the ternary solubility data. Each ternary phase diagram included one invariant point, two boundary curves, and two crystalline regions which corresponded to pure 2-nitrobenzaldehyde and pure 4-nitrobenzaldehyde confirmed by Schreinemaker's method of wet residue. The crystallization region of 2-nitrobenzaldehyde is smaller than that of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde at each temperature. Two thermodynamic models, NRTL model and Wilson model were employed to correlate the experiment data. The maximum root mean square deviation was 36.41 × 10− 3; and the relative average deviation, 4.06 × 10− 2. Furthermore, the mixing properties were derived for 2-nitrobenzaldehyde in neat solvents.
Recently, AKR1B15 has been demonstrated to be a functional gene with low expression restricted to placenta, testes and adipose tissues. The AKR1B15 gene undergoes alternative splicing giving rise to two protein isoforms, designated as AKR1B15.1 and AKR1B15.2. The former is a 316-amino acid protein encoded by AKR1B15-201 mRNA (Ensembl database) and showing 92% amino acid sequence identity with AKR1B10, whereas AKR1B15.2 (AKR1B15-001, Ensembl) has a longer N-terminus not homologous to other AKRs, and does not exhibit enzymatic activity or nucleotide binding [16] . AKR1B15.1 (henceforth referred to in this manuscript as AKR1B15 for brevity) is localized in the mitochondrial fraction and the recombinant protein was purified and characterized, showing limited in vitro activity with steroids and acetoacetyl-CoA [16] . Previously, AKR1B15.1 had been expressed in the insoluble fraction of mammalian cells, showing low activity with D,L-glyceraldehyde and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde [6] . Similarly to AKR1B10, the AKR1B15 gene was found to be up-regulated in the airway epithelium by smoking [17] and by exposure to sulforaphane, a known activator of the antioxidant response [18] . Interest in the AKR1B15 gene has risen lately because some allelic variants have been linked to a mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation disease [19] , serous ovarian carcinoma [20] and increased longevity [21] .
It was confirmed that the suggested organocatalysts of pyrrolidin-2-yl-4,5-dihydro-1H-imidazol-5-one type are not stable under common conditions and thus cannot be used in organocatalysis, but their precursors, that is, N-(1-carbamoylcyclopentyl)-(S)-prolinamide and (1S)-N-(1-carbamoyl-2-methylpropyl)-(S)-prolinamide, appear to be suitable from the standpoint of their use in organocatalysis. These organocatalysts were successful in catalyzing the aldol reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with cyclohexanone, with yields 68% ee and 79% ee, respectively. ::: Imidazolidin-4-ones are less rigid, due to the sp3 configuration at the 2-carbon atom, as compared to 4,5-dihydro-1H-imidazol-5-ones, which as expected dramatically increased the enantioselectivity of Henry reaction catalyzed with the corresponding Cu(II) complexes (from 19% ee up to 96% ee). The geometry of the Cu(II) complex formed determined the enantioselectivity of Henry reaction, which in the case of anti arrangement gave 91-96% ee. In the case of the syn arrangement of the imidazolidin-4-one skaffold, the enantiomeric excess markedly decreased to as low as 25-27% ee. Also, the position of the methyl group on the imidazolidin-4-one skeleton substantially affected the enantioselectivity of the respective complexes. The aforementioned findings show that the studied ligands can be relatively easily prepared, are stable, and possess high catalytic potential for the Henry reaction; in the future these ligands may find applications in the organocatalysis of other reactions.
New (S)-proline derivatives (I) are synthesized and tested as organocatalysts for the asymmetric aldol reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with acetone.
Trypanosoma cruzi is the causative agent of Chagas' disease, a parasitic disease that remains a serious health concern with unsatisfactory treatment. Drugs that are currently used to treat Chagas' disease are partially effective in the acute phase but ineffective in the chronic phase of the disease. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the antitrypanosomal activity and morphological, ultrastructural and biochemical alterations induced by a new molecule, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde thiosemicarbazone (BZTS), derived from S-(-)-limonene against epimastigote, trypomastigote and intracellular amastigote forms of T. cruzi. BZTS inhibited the growth of epimastigotes (IC50 = 9·2 μ m), intracellular amastigotes (IC50 = 3·23 μ m) and inhibited the viability of trypomastigotes (EC50 = 1·43 μ m). BZTS had a CC50 of 37·45 μ m in LLCMK2 cells. BZTS induced rounding and distortion of the cell body and severely damaged parasite mitochondria, reflected by extensive swelling and disorganization in the inner mitochondrial membrane and the presence of concentric membrane structures inside the organelle. Cytoplasmic vacuolization, endoplasmic reticulum that surrounded organelles, the loss of mitochondrial membrane potential, and increased mitochondrial O2 •- production were also observed. Our results suggest that BZTS alters the ultrastructure and physiology of mitochondria, which could be closely related to parasite death.
A Schiff base N-methyl-4-(4-nitrobenzylidene amino)benzamide were prepared by solid state reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with 4-amino-N-methylbenzamide at room temperature.Element analysis and H1NMR confirmed the structure of the product and the color change process were studied by DSC spectra.The results indicated that the structure of the synthesized compound were consistent with that of the target product,the productive rate were higher,the melting ranges were narrower,the purity higher,and the reaction effect desirable.As a thermochromatic material the title compound has the advantages such as sharp swift color change speed,obvious color contrast,good reversibility and high color change temperature.In conclusion,the materials have good applied future.
New 2-(4-formyl-3-phenylpyrazolo-1-yl)-amidomethyl-5,6-dichloro-benzothiazole (III) was synthesized by reacting acetophenone-5,6-dichlorobenzothiazol-2-yl amidomethylhydrazone(II) with Vilsmeier-Haack reagent (DMF/POCl3). Benzaldehyde/4-nitrobenzaldehyde/4-methoxy benzaldehyde-5,6-dichlorobenzothiazol-2-yl amidomethylhydrazones (IV-VI) were obtained by the reaction of 2-hydrazinoamidomethyl-5,6- dichlorobenzothiazole (I) with various aromatic aldehydes. All these compounds were characterised by analytical and spectral data. Compound (III) exhibited good antiinflammatory and antibacterial properties while the rest of the compounds were moderately active, on evaluation.
Two possible diastereomers of the indole moiety of sespendole were synthesized from 3-hydroxy-4-nitrobenzaldehyde in a highly stereoselective manner. Comparison of 1H and 13C NMR spectra of the two synthetic materials with those sespendole leads us to propose that the relative stereochemistry of the epoxyalcohol is syn.
A new series of phthalazine substituted urea and thiourea derivatives were synthesized, and their inhibitory effects on the activity of purified human carbonic anhydrases (hCAs I and II) were evaluated. 2H-Indazolo[2,1-b]phthalazine-trione derivative (1) was prepared with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, dimedone, and phthalhydrazide in the presence of TFA in DMF, and nitro group was reduced to amine derivative (2) with SnCl2·2H2O. The compound was reacted with isocyanates and isothiocyanates to get the final products (3a–p). The results showed that all the synthesized compounds inhibited the CA isoenzymes activity. 3a (IC50 = 6.40 µM for hCA I and 6.13 µM for hCA II) has the most inhibitory effect. The synthesized compounds are very bulky to be able to bind near the zinc ion, and they much more probably bind as the coumarin derivatives.
Objective To establish a quantitative method for the determination of chloramphenicol,metronidazole,2-amino-1-(4-nitrophenyl) propane-1,3 diol and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde in collunarium by means of HPLC. Methods The chromatographic conditions included Intersil C18 column and mobile phase consisting of methanol,water and triethylamine(480∶520∶7,containing 1% NaH2PO4,0.2% 1-heptanesulfonate and sodium salt,to regulate pH to 3.0 with phosphoric acid).The flow rate was 1.0 ml·min-1.The detective wavelength was 270 nm performed at room temperature.Results The numbers of theoretical plates calculated by metronidazole,2-amino-1-(4-nitrophenyl) propane-1,3-diol,chloramphenicol and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde were 4700,4500,4400 and 1500 respectively;the regression equation was y=424 145.7 +19 156 100.5 x(r=0.9999),y=39 817 070.9x + 1 373 589.3(r=0.9998),y=65 390 024.2 x-5660.6(r=0.9999),and y=83 051 977.5 x284 191.7(r=0.9998) respectively;the linear range was 0.4230～2.115 μg,0.4500～2.250 μg,0.0330～0.1650 μg,0.022 20～0.1110 μg,respectively;the average recovery(±RSD)was 99.5%(±1.4%),98.7%(±1.3%),102.3%(±1.8%),96.3%(±1.9%),respectively;the measurable lowest limits were 0.0002,0.0002,0.0002,and 0.003 μg,respectively. Conclusion This method is rapid,accurate and reliable for the determination of metronidazole,and chloramphenicol and its catabolic products in collunarium.
The aim of the research were to obtain of 3-(benzylideneamino)-2-(2,4- ::: dichlorophenyl)quinazolin-4(3H)-one derivatives and anticancer activity in breast ::: cancer test on T47D cell. ::: The compounds are synthesized by three reaction stages. The first stage, ::: 2-aminobenzoic acid was reacted with 2,4-dichlorobenzoyl chloride to obtaining ::: 2-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4H-benzo[1,3]oxazin-4-one. The second stage, 2-(2,4- ::: dichlorophenyl)-4H-benzo[1,3]oxazin-4-one was reacted with hydrazine to ::: obtaining 3-amino-2-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)quinazolin-4(3H)-one. The third stage, ::: 3-amino-2-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)quinazolin-4(3H)-one was reacted with ::: benzaldehyde and derivatives such as 4-methoxybenzaldehyde, 4-dimethylaminobenzaldehyde ::: and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde. The melting point and TLC checks ::: showed that the compounds are pure and continued for the structural confirmation ::: test. The results of the confirmation structure of the compounds by the IR spectra, ::: 1HNMR, 13CNMR and MS exhibited the compounds and can be synthesized from ::: the starting material of 2-aminobenzoic acid with the percentage of yield between ::: 45-53 %. The addition of substituents to the benzaldehyde group affects the length ::: of reaction time. The duration of reaction time is -N (CH3)2 > -H > -OCH3 > ::: -NO2. ::: The 3-(benzylideneamino)-2-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)quinazolin-4(3H)-on ::: compounds were tested for anticancer activity by MTT method on T47D cells. ::: The four compounds have weaker anticancer activity than Celecoxib and ::: predicted to qualitatively inhibit the cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) enzyme. The ::: addition of dimethylamino substituents does not affect anticancer activity, ::: whereas the addition of nitro substituents will decrease anticancer activity in ::: T47D breast cancer cells.
The aldol reaction between acetone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde catalyzed by single l-prolinamide and its zinc complexes has been studied. An increase in the rate and the stereoselectivity of the reaction has been shown by using zinc derivatives. A mechanistic proposal, based on NMR and ESI studies, has been put forward to explain the experimental data: zinc–prolinamide complexes catalyze the reaction following the general mechanism of stereoselective enamine nucleophilic addition to the acceptor aldehyde. Zn2+ prevents the nonspecific base-catalyzed reaction by diminishing the basicity of the amine nitrogen of prolinamide.
A new series of phthalazine substituted urea and thiourea derivatives were synthesized, and their inhibitory effects on the activity of purified human carbonic anhydrases (hCAs I and II) were evaluated. 2H-Indazolo[2,1-b]phthalazine-trione derivative (1) was prepared with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, dimedone, and phthalhydrazide in the presence of TFA in DMF, and nitro group was reduced to amine derivative (2) with SnCl 2 ⋅2H 2 O. The compound was reacted with isocyanates and isothiocyanates to get the final products (3a-p). The results showed that all the synthesized compounds inhibited the CA isoenzymes activity. 3a (IC 50 = 6.40 M for hCA I and 6.13 M for hCA II) has the most inhibitory effect. The synthesized compounds are very bulky to be able to bind near the zinc ion, and they much more probably bind as the coumarin derivatives.
AbstractA new series of 2-((1-furan-2-yl)ethylidene)hydrazono)-4-substitutedphenylthiazol-3(2H)-amines (2a–2o) and their Schiff bases (3a–3o) from 4-nitrobenzaldehyde were synthesized. The chemical structures of all the synthesized compounds were confirmed by their IR, 1H-NMR, 13C-NMR spectroscopy and mass spectrometry. They were screened for their antimicrobial and antifungal activities. Additionally, in vitro cytotoxic acivity of the most active antifungal compound (3o) and ketoconazole was determined in NIH/3T3 cells by MTT assay. Compound 2i (4-{3-Amino-2-[(1-(furan-2-yl)ethylidene)hydrazono]-2,3-dihydrothiazol-4-yl}phenol) showed the greatest antifungal activity among the newly synthesized derivatives. Schiff bases (3c-3n) displayed an undeniable fungicidal action against Candida parapsilosis ATCC 22019 as intense as the reference ketoconazole. In addition, the most active Schiff base 3o (2-[(1-(Furan-2-yl)ethylidene)hydrazono]-N-(4-nitrobenzylidene)-4-(2,3,4-trichloro phenyl)thiazol-3(2H)-amine) sho...
We have designed a new hydrophobic ionic liquid derived from bromoester of trans-4-hydroxy-(L)-prolinamide and N-methylimidazole. (L)-Prolinamide imidazolium hexafluorophosphate ionic liquid (2 mol%) found to be an excellent organocatalyst for direct asymmetric aldol reaction between 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and cyclohexanone using acetic acid (2 mol%) as an additive at −15 °C in solvent-free condition, the aldol product was afforded in excellent yield with diastereomeric ratio (anti/syn; 97 : 3) and 94% ee of anti-aldol product. Ionic liquids can catalyze the direct aldol reaction between benzaldehyde derivatives and cycloalkanones and the best dr (anti/syn; 99.9/0.01) and 99% ee was obtained for aldol product of 2-trifluoromethyl benzaldehyde and cyclohexanone. (L)-Prolinamide imidazolium hexafluorophosphate ionic liquid was reused up to 6 continuous cycles without decrease in the conversion of the product with 92% ee and found to be superior than its counterpart trans-4-hydroxy-(L)-prolinamide. Continuous cycle experiments do not require isolation of the catalyst after each cycle. The results of reusability of the ionic liquid catalyst were found to be better than most of other reported reusable catalysts.
Addition of an ordered mesoporous silica to a mixture of an aldol reaction, comprising 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with acetone catalyzed by organic amines, caused significant increase in the reaction rate to afford the β-hydroxyketone in high yield. A cooperative effect between the surface silanol and amine was considered to be the likely reason for the rate-enhancement, which was supported by FTIR spectroscopy.
CF3SO3SiMe3-catalysed one-to-one exchange of oxathioacetals to carbonyl compounds in the presence of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde is performed efficiently at room temperature, the protocol developed provided selective and effective deprotection of oxathiolanes in the presence of thioacetals.
The further metabolism of N-desisopropylpropranolol (NDP), a side-chain metabolite of propranolol (PL), was investigated in isolated rat hepatocytes. Propranolol glycol (PGL) was generated from NDP as a major metabolite. Naphtetrazole (NTE), a potent inhibitor of monoamine oxidase (MAO), significantly retarded the disappearance of NDP from the incubation medium, suggesting the involvement of MAO in the deamination of NDP to an aldehyde intermediate. In a reaction mixture of rat liver mitochondria and cytosol with NADPH, phenobarbital, a specific inhibitor of aldehyde reductase, and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (4-NBA), a substrate inhibitor of aldehyde reductase, decreased the formation of PGL from NDP. 4-NBA was a competitive inhibitor of the enzyme responsible for the PGL formation. The optimal pH for the formation of PGL from NDP in the reaction mixture was approximately 8.0. Based on these results, we propose the possibility that, in the rat liver, MAO catalyzes the oxidative deamination of NDP to an aldehyde intermediate and the formed aldehyde intermediate is subsequently reduced to PGL by aldehyde reductase. Furthermore, the enantioselective metabolism of NDP to PGL was examined. In isolated rat hepatocytes, the amount of PGL formed from S-NDP [S(-)-form of NDP] was larger than that of PGL formed from R-NDP [R(+)-form of NDP].
A new route to aryl [18F]fluorides without electron withdrawing ring substituents has been developed. [18F]Fluorobenzaldehydes, prepared from no-carrier-added (NCA) [18F]fluoride using nucleophilic aromatic substitution of fluoro or nitro groups, were decarbonylated using palladium on charcoal (Pd-C). By this approach 2-methoxy-4-nitrobenzaldehyde was converted to NCA 3-[18F]fluorophenol (25–30%, EOB) and 4-fluoro-2-methoxy-5-methylbenzaldehyde to carrier-added (CA) 3-[18F]fluoro-4-methylphenol (30–40%, EOB). Overall synthesis time was about 2 h. Since the 4-fluoro-2-methoxy-5-methylbenzaldehyde was in turn prepared by methylation and regiospecific formylation of 3-fluoro-4-methylphenol, the overall process represents use of a removable activating group for nucleophilic aromatic substitution with [18F]fluoride for preparation of CA and NCA aryl [18F]fluorides.
Dendrimers containing an encapsulated tertiary amine were prepared by coupling tris(2-aminoethyl)amine with dendritic branches derived from l-lysine. These dendrimers were used as catalysts in the Henry (nitroaldol) reaction between 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and nitroethane, and their catalytic performance was compared with that of triethylamine. Attachment of the dendritic shell alters the rate of reaction and influences the syn:anti ratio of products. It is proposed that the dendritic shell generates an encapsulated catalytically active site, mimicking the behavior of a protein superstructure.
Aldose reductase (EC 1.1.1.21) was purified approximately 5000-fold from bovine lens by ammonium sulphate fractionation and chromatography on DEAE-Sephacel and Matrex OA. Inhibition of this enzyme was found to depend upon the assay substrate. Tested against the purest form of enzyme, the inhibitor Sorbinil gave IC50 values of approximately 100 microM with the model substrate 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (4NB) and 0.4-1.4 microM with the physiological substrate glucose. A similar effect of substrate was found for the inhibitor Statil (IC50 450-750 nM with 4NB, 26-71 nM with glucose substrate). The implications of these results towards the assessment of aldose reductase inhibitors in vitro are discussed.
Syntheses of 2,6-bis[((3S)-3-(methoxycarbonyl)-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinolin-2-yl)carbonyl]pyridine and its coordination compounds with Cu2+, Co2+, Co3+, or Fe3+ are described. By means of 1H- and 13C-NMR spectra it was proved that 2,6-bis[((3S)-3-(methoxycarbonyl)-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinolin-2-yl)carbonyl]pyridine as well as its coordination compound with Co3+ exist in the form of a mixture of three conformers, differing in the conformations at the two amide groups present. The prepared coordination compounds were tested in the enantioselective catalysis of the nitroaldol addition of nitromethane with 2-nitrobenzaldehyde or 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, and in the Michael addition of ethyl 2-oxocyclohexanecarboxylate to but-3-en-2-one.
Abstract According to the biogenetic scheme of Schutte etal . ( An. Quim., 1972, 68, 899), agaritine [AG; β - N -( γ -glutamyl)-4-hydroxymethylphenylhydrazine (HMPH)], a constituent of the fruit body of the common mushroom Agaricus bisporus , is generally held to be a shikimate-derived metabolite. A critical evaluation of the methodological basis of this tenet showed it is not supported by the experimental data presented. A major doubt concerns the conditions used for hydrolysis of the hydrazide bond; therefore, two derivatives of HMPH, 2- and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde hydrazones, were synthesized as reference compounds for the assessment of the desglutamyl product. The UV-, IR- and 1 H NMR spectroscopic properties of the two new substances are listed. Using (i) the established shikimate-derived metabolite γ -glutaminyl-4-hydroxybenzene, which co-occurs with AG, as the positive control, (ii) the shikimate-chorismate pathway inhibitor ‘glyphosate’ as a tool, and (iii) complementary results from physiological experiments, it was demonstrated that there is no de novo synthesis of the desglutamyl moiety of AG in the fruit body. The likely site of AG synthesis is the vegetative hyphae in contact with the wheat straw compost. A speculative scheme is presented for the assembly of AG, which postulates an exogenous origin of both the aryl and the hydrazide moieties of this, resulting, respectively, from the breakdown of lignin by the fungus and the diazotrophic activity of a bacterial commensal in the substratum.
Quantum mechanics calculations were employed to study the stereoselectivities in the direct anti-andsyn-aldol reactions between α-fluoro(chloro) ketones and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde catalyzed by different amino acidderivatives(L-proline amino alcohol amides and L-leucine amino alcohol amides).Transition states of the ster-eochemistry-determining C—C bond-forming step with the enamine intermediate addition to the aldehyde arereported and compared with the observed d r and ee values.The calculated results provide a good explanationfor the opposite syn versus anti diastereoselectivities of these two kinds of catalysts(anti-selectivity for the pro-line derivative,syn-selectivity for the leucine derivative).
The reactions of mono(cyclopentadienyl)titanium(IV) trichloride and bis(cyclopentadienyl)titanium(IV)/ zirconium(IV) dichloride with a new class of dithiosemicarbazone, derived by condensing piperazine dithiosemicarbazide with benzaldehyde (L1H2), 2-chlorobenzaldehyde (L2H2), 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (L3H2) or salicylaldehyde (L4H4) have been studied and different types of binuclear products, viz. [{CpTiCl2}2L], [{Cp2MCl}2L], ((L=L1, L2 or L3), [{CpTiCI}2L4] and [{Cp2M}2L4] (M=Yi or Zr), have been isolated. Tentative structures are proposed for these complexes based upon elemental analyses, electrical conductance, magnetic moment and spectral (electronic, IR, 1H and 13C NMR) data. Attempts have been made to establish a correlation between antibacterial activity and the structures of the products.
In this work we reported the synthesis, characterization, electrochemical behavior, theoretical study and the amoebicidal activity of four new hydrazones that possess a nitrobenzyl group: (E)-2-nitrobenzaldehyde phenylhydrazone (1) , (E)-3-nitrobenzaldehyde phenylhydrazone (2) , (E)-4-nitrobenzaldehyde phenylhydrazone (3) and (E)-2,4-dinitrobenzaldehyde phenylhydrazone (4). The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of the nitro group position on the electronic and physicochemical properties as well as its consequences on the amoebicidal activity of these compounds.
The reactions of mono(cyclopentadienyl)titanium(IV) trichloride and bis(cyclopentadienyl)titanium(IV)/ zirconium(IV) dichloride with a new class of dithiosemicarbazone, derived by condensing piperazine dithiosemicarbazide with benzaldehyde (LIHz), 2-chlorobenzaldehyde (LzH2), 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (L3H2) or salicylaldehyde (L4H4) have been studied and different types of binuclear products, viz. [{CpTiC[z}2L],
The ylides (2)⇌(3) formed from trialkyl phosphites and dialkyl acetylenedicarboxylates in the presence of carbon dioxide react with proton donors, such as phenol or diethylamine, to give stabilised ylides (4). With water, proton transfer within the stabilised ylide results in the formation of a quasiphosphonium salt (6) which can then cyclise to a 1,2-oxaphospholane (7) or dealkylate to give phosphonates (5). In some cases, hydrolysis of the ylide (2)⇌(3) occurs to give phosphate and an acid (9). The formation of a furan (12) during the reaction of the ylide (2)⇌(3) with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde has been investigated.
4-Nitrobenzaldehyde is the synthetic raw material and an important photodegradation product of chloramphenicol. With a structural "alert" of human genotoxic potential and reported mutagenicity, this compound should be controlled in drug substances as a potential genotoxic impurity. However, current analysis methods require complex pre-treatment processes and/or lack sufficient specificity and sensitivity. Nitrophenylhydrazine is a common carbonyl derivatization reagent used to determine the residual aromatic aldehydes in drug samples. In the present study, we report an unexpected advantage of 3-nitrophenylhydrazine hydrochloride as a derivatization reagent in the derivatization high-performance liquid chromatography-ultraviolet detection method to determine 4-nitrobenzaldehyde in chloramphenicol samples. Compared with other nitro-substituted phenylhydrazines, 3-nitrophenylhydrazine hydrochloride can minimize drug matrix and derivatization reagent interferences, since the maximum absorption wavelength of its derivative is significantly red-shifted to 397 nm. The derivatization conditions have been optimized in terms of reaction efficiency, including reaction temperature, time, and diluting solvent, through a design of experiments. As a result, after reaction with 500 μg mL-1 of 3-nitrophenylhydrazine hydrochloride in acetonitrile-water (70:30, v/v) at 60 °C for 30 min, the developed HPLC method could be used to determine 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with a limit of detection of 0.009 μg mL-1. The method was then validated and applied for the determination of residual 4-nitrobenzaldehyde in chloramphenicol and its eye-drop samples.
Skeletal diseases have a major impact on the worldwide population and economy. Although several therapeutic agents and treatments are available for addressing bone diseases, they are not being fully utilized because of their uptake in nontargeted sites and related side effects. Active targeting with controlled delivery is an ideal approach for treatment of such diseases. Because bisphosphonates are known to have high affinity to bone and are being widely used in treatment of osteoporosis, they are well-suited for drug targeting to bone. In this study, a targeted delivery of therapeutic agent to resorption sites and wound healing sites of bone was explored. Toward this goal, bifunctional hydrazine-bisphosphonates (HBPs), with spacers of various lengths, were synthesized and studied for their enhanced affinity to bone. Crystal growth inhibition studies showed that these HBPs have high affinity to hydroxyapatite, and HBPs with shorter spacers bind more strongly than alendronate to hydroxyapatite. The HBPs did not affect proliferation of MC3T3-E1 preosteoblasts, did not induce apoptosis, and were not cytotoxic at the concentration range tested (10(-6)-10(-4) M). Furthermore, drugs can be linked to the HBPs through a hydrazone linkage that is cleavable at the low pH of bone resorption and wound healing sites, leading to release of the drug. This was demonstrated using hydroxyapatite as a model material of bone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde as a model drug. This study suggests that these HBPs could be used for targeted delivery of therapeutic agents to bone.
The 5,10,15,20-tetra(4-nitrophenyl)porphyrin (TNPP) has been synthesized using the reaction of pyrrole and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde in the presence of propionic acid. The TNPP was used as a new fluorescent chemosensor to determine Ru3+ with higher selectivity than other ions such as Hg2+, CH3Hg+, Ag+, Co2+, Cd2+, Ni2+, Cr3+, Fe3+, Cu2+, or Zn2+. The response of the new chemosensor is reported in the form of fluorescence quenching, which is attributed to the metalloporphyrin formation of Ru-TNPP complex with 1:1 stoichiometric ratio (K-stab = 2.04 x 10(8)). The synthesized fluorescence chemosensor can be used to determine Ru3+ with a detection limit of 0.89 mu M (90 ppb) and a linear quantification range between 3 and 25 mu M. Therefore, the synthesized chemosensor could be used as a new fluorescence chemosensor for the quantitative analysis of Ru3+ with satisfactory results.
The direct aldol reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde catalyzed by NaHCO3, with three different ketones, Znproline, NaHCO3/Znproline, and L-proline/Znproline in aqueous media, was studied to explore the selectivity of this environmentally benign type of reaction. Amazingly, NaHCO3 proper was found to be an efficient catalyst for the selective synthesis of β-hydroxy ketones, showing good regio- and diastereoselectivity, with all reactions being completed within 9 h. Cyclopentanone and cyclohexanone were found to give rise to reversed diastereoisomer ratios, the syn and anti isomers being the major products, respectively – an unprecedented result. Also, the observed syn diastereoselectivity of aldol reactions catalyzed by L-proline and Znproline is remarkable. The corresponding condensation products 7 and 8 were characterized by 1H-NMR and single-crystal X-ray analyses. Finally, a chelate- vs. nonchelate-type transition state is proposed to account for the differential diastereoselectivities.
Polydicyclopentadiene was reacted with m-chloroperoxybenzoic acid to yield a surface that was terminated with epoxides. The X-ray photoelectron spectrum (XPS) of the sample demonstrated that the top ten nm of the surface had been oxidized. The grazing angle attenuated total reflection-infrared spectrum of this surface was unchanged from that of native PDCPD which demonstrated that the oxidation was only on the surface and that the bulk PDCPD was unchanged. The PDCPD–epoxide surface was then reacted with two different amines that possessed F or Cl atoms to study the ring opening reaction between surface epoxides and amines. This reaction was rapid and completed within an hour. The method of Tougaard was applied to the F and Cl peaks in the XPS to investigate their locations and whether the amines were uniformly distributed in the top ten nm or were localized at the surface. This analysis clearly described the amines as being present only on the surface. The PDCPD–epoxide surface was also reacted with poly(ethylene imine) to generate a surface that exposed numerous amines. The amines bonded to Cu such that this metal did not flux through PCPCD while the flux of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde was unaffected.
Abstract Proline-functionalized MOFs MIL-53(Al) (based on the benzene-1,4-dicarboxylate, bdc linker) and DUT-5(Al) (based on the biphenyl-4,4′-dicarboxylate, bpdc linker) were synthesized using a mixed-linker approach. The proline-functionalized bdc and bpdc ligand was mixed with both the non-functionalized ligand as well as the amino functionalized one. The influence of the length of the linker on the catalytic activity showed a counterintuitive confinement effect and advantageous increase of ee with longer linker and higher porosity, that is a change of ee values from no selectivity in the MIL-53(Al) MOFs up to 16% ee for 27-L-Pro/H2N-DUT-5(Al) and 19% ee for 26-L-Pro/H-DUT-5(Al). The conversion of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde remains over 85% after three catalytic runs for l -proline functionalized MIL-53(Al) MOFs. For the DUT-5(Al) MOFs with l -proline groups this value even increases up to 97%.
An indicator displacement assay has been adapted to detect the diol products of the aldol reaction between 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and hydroxyacetone in crude reaction mixtures. This provides a rapid colorimetric method of detecting product formation and thus evaluating potential catalysts, which is demonstrated using multiple catalytic peptides.
ABSTRACT: The 5,10,15,20-tetra(4-nitrophenyl)porphyrin (TNPP) has been synthesized using the reaction of pyrrole and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde in the presence of propionic acid. 
Abstract Grafting of pairs of functional groups onto a silica surface was demonstrated by tethering both terminals of an organochlorosilane precursor molecule, Cl 2 (CH 3 )Si(CH 2 ) 4 (CO)(OSi(i-Pr) 2 )(CH 2 ) 2 Si(CH 3 )Cl 2 , that possess a cleavable silyl ester bond, onto a silica surface. Hydrolytic cleavage of the silyl ester bond of the grafted molecule resulted in the generation of organized pairs of carboxylic acid and organosilanol groups. This organosilanol moiety was easily transformed into other functional groups through condensation reactions to form, together with the neighboring acid group, pairs such as carboxylic acid/secondary amine, carboxylic acid/pyridine, and carboxylic acid/phosphine. In the case of carboxylic acid/amine pairing, there was evidence of the formation of amide. A sample grafted with amine–carboxylic acid pairs was three times more active (per free amine) than a sample without such pairs for the nitroaldol condensation of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and nitromethane.
Two novel bifunctional primary amine catalysts 1 (R A ,S,S) and 2 (R A ,R,R), which bear both central and axial chiral elements, have been developed to promote highly diastereoselective and enantioselective aldol reactions of arylaldehydes with cyclic and acyclic ketones in the presence of water at room temperature. The catalyst 2 (R A ,R,R) afforded the desired products with high levels of anti diastereoselectivity (up to 99:1) and enantioselectivity (up to 98%), showing that the two chiral elements of catalyst 2 (R A ,R,R) are matched, and enhance the stereochemical control. In addition, the catalyst 2 (R A ,R,R) was found to catalyze the direct aldol reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with 2-cyclohexanone under neat reaction conditions at room temperature with the high anti diastereoselectivity (98:2) and enantioselectivity (98%).
This paper describes a mechanistic study of the SCS-pincer PdII-catalyzed auto-tandem reaction consisting of the stannylation of cinnamyl chlo- ACHTUNGTRENUNGride with hexamethylditin, followed by an electrophilic allylic substitution of the primary tandem-reaction product with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde to yield homoallylic alcohols as the secondary tandem products. As it turned out, the anticipated stannylation product, cinnamyl trimethylstannane, is not a substrate for the second part of the tandem reaction. These studies have provided insight in the catalytic behavior of SCS-pincer PdII complexes in the auto-tandem reaction and on the formation and possible involvement of Pd0 species during prolonged reaction times. This has led to optimized reaction conditions in which the overall tandem reaction proceeds through SCS-pincer PdII-mediated catalysis, that is, true auto-tandem catalysis. Accordingly, this study has provided the appropriate reaction conditions that allow the pincer catalysts to be recycled and reused.
Intramolecular cooperativity in heterogeneous organocatalysts is investigated using alkanolamine-functionalized silica acid–base catalysts for the aldol condensation reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and acetone. Two series of catalysts, one with and one without silanol-capping, are synthesized with varied alkyl linker lengths (two to five) connecting secondary amine and terminal hydroxyl functionalities. The reactivity of these catalysts is assessed to determine the relative potential for intermolecular (silane amine–surface silanol) vs intramolecular (amine–hydroxyl within a single silane) cooperativity, the impact of inhibitory surface–silane interactions, and the role of alkyl linker length and flexibility. For the array of catalysts tested, those with longer linker lengths generally give increased catalytic activity, although the turnover frequency trends differ between catalysts with and without surface silanol capping. Catalysts with alkyl-substituted amines lacking a terminal hydroxyl demonstrate an...
In rat ovary, 20alpha-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (20alpha-HSD), a member of the aldo-keto reductase (AKR) superfamily, converts progesterone into the inactive progestin 20alpha-hydroxyprogesterone and has been implicated in the termination of pregnancy. Here we report a convenient overexpression system that permits the purification of milligram quantities of homogeneous recombinant 20alpha-HSD with wild-type enzyme activity. The availability of this enzyme has permitted detailed kinetic, inhibition and fluorescence analyses. The enzyme exhibited narrow steroid specificity, catalysing reactions only at C-20; it reduced progesterone and 17alpha-hydroxyprogesterone and oxidized 20alpha-hydroxypregnanes. It also turned over common AKR substrates, such as 9, 10-phenanthrenequinone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde. The intrinsic fluorescence spectrum of 20alpha-HSD was characterized and was quenched on the binding of NADP(H), yielding a KNADPd of 0.36 microM and a KNADPHd of 0.64 microM. NADP(H) binding generated an energy transfer band that could not be quenched by steroids. Inhibition studies conducted with non-steroidal and steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and synthetic oestrogens indicated that even though rat ovarian 20alpha-HSD and rat liver 3alpha-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3alpha-HSD) share more than 67% amino acid identity, their inhibition profiles are markedly different. Unlike 3alpha-HSD, most of these compounds did not inhibit 20alpha-HSD. Only meclofenamic acid and hexoestrol were potent competitive inhibitors for 20alpha-HSD, yielding K(i) values of 18.9 and 14.3 microM respectively. These studies suggest that selective non-steroidal AKR inhibitors could be developed for 20alpha-HSD that might be useful in maintaining pregnancy and that specific inhibitors might be developed from either N-phenylanthranilates or biphenols.
Oxidation of an alcohol to the aldehyde or ketone, and corresponding reduction back to the alcohol, are two of the most common transformations of preparative organic chemistry. As such, they have a place in the undergraduate laboratory course. We have found the exercises currently available in laboratory texts to be deficient in several ways: the oxidized products [camphor, cyclohexanone] are volatile and difficult to isolate, and do not visualize on TLC. While camphor is a solid, it is difficult to isolate and crystallize. We have found a much more satisfactory combination in 4-nitrobenzyl alcohol and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde. both are crystalline, neither is volatile, and both are strongly UV-absorbing, so they visualize well on TLC.
Abstract An easily accessible chemo-probe based on physical mixture of 2,4-dimethylpyrrole and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde has been developed. Based on NMR spectroscopic analysis, catalyst free formation of dipyrromethane was observed in the physical mixture of chemo-probe. The probe is utilized in effective colorimetric sensing of copper(II) ions present in environmental solutions by instantaneous appearance of red colour, even in the co-existence of various metal ions. The lowest detection limit of 2.51 μM for this chemo-probe towards copper(II) sensing is significantly lower than the WHO prescribed level (
ABSTRACT: Intramolecular cooperativity in heterogeneous organocatalysts is investigated using alkanolamine-functionalized silica acid−base catalysts for the aldol condensation reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and acetone. Two series of catalysts, one with and one without silanol-capping, are synthesized with varied alkyl linker lengths (two to five) connecting secondary amine and terminal hydroxyl functionalities. The reactivity of these catalysts is assessed to determine the relative potential for intermolecular (silane amine−surface silanol) vs intramolecular (amine−hydroxyl within a single silane) cooperativity, the impact of inhibitory surface−silane interactions, and the role of alkyl linker length and flexibility. For the array of catalysts tested, those with longer linker lengths generally give increased catalytic activity, although the turnover frequency trends differ between catalysts with and without surface silanol capping. Catalysts with alkyl-substituted amines lacking a terminal hydroxyl demonstrate an adverse effect of chain length, where the larger alkyl substituent on the amine provides steric hindrance depressing catalytic activity, while giving additional evidence for improved rates afforded by intramolecular cooperativity in the alkanolamine materials. The silanol-capped alkanolamine catalyst with the longest alkyl linker is found to be the most active alkanolamine catalyst due to its hydrophobized surface, which removes hypothesized silanol−alkanolamine inhibitory interactions, with the sufficient length and flexibility of its amine−hydroxyl linker allowing for favorable conformations for cooperativity. This study demonstrates the feasibility of and important factors affecting intramolecular cooperative activity in acid−base heterogeneous organocatalysis.
Environment-friendly three component condensation reactions of cyclic 1,3-diketones, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, and alkyl or aryl isocyanides to afford the corresponding tetrahydrobenzofuran derivatives in water in high yields within one hour are reported.
The carbonyl reductase activity exhibited by pig testicular 20β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (20β-HSD) was examined using a recombinant enzyme. Kinetic parameters were obtained for 48 carbonyl group-containing substrates, including aromatic aldehydes, aromatic ketones, cycloketones, quinones, aliphatic aldehydes and aliphatic ketones. 20β-HSD showed a high affinity towards quinones, such as 9, 10-phenanthrenequinone, α-naphthoquinone and menadione (Km values of 4, 2 and 5 μM, respectively), and the substrate utilization efficiency (Vmax/Km) of the enzyme against these quinones was very high. Cyclohexanone and 2-methylcyclohexanone were also reduced with a high Vmax/Km value, but not cyclopentanone or 2-methylcyclopentanone. Various aromatic aldehydes and ketones including benzaldehyde- and acetophenone-derivatives were reduced by 20β-HSD. Especially, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and 4-nitroacetophenone were reduced with high Vmax/Km values in related compounds. The enzyme also reduced the pyridine-derivatives, 2-, 3-, and 4-benzoylpyridine, with the Vmax/Km value for 2-benzoylpyridine being the highest. 20β-HSD reduced aliphatic aldehydes and aliphatic ketones, but was more effective on the former. The correlation between the structure of carbonyl compounds and their substrate Vmax/Km is discussed.
The covalent functionalization of multi-walled carbon nanotubes (MWCNTs) with a proline-based derivative is reported. Initially, MWCNTs were oxidized in order to introduce a large number of carboxylic units on their tips followed by N-tert-butoxycarbonyl-2,2'(ethylenedioxy)bis-(ethylamine) conjugation through an amide bond. Then, a proline derivative bearing a carboxylic terminal moiety at the 4-position was coupled furnishing proline-modified MWCNTs. This new hybrid material was fully characterized by spectroscopic and microscopy means and its catalytic activity in the asymmetric aldol reaction between acetone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde was evaluated for the first time, showing to proceed almost quantitatively in aqueous media. Furthermore, several amino-modified MWCNTs were prepared and examined in the particular aldol reaction. These new hybrid materials exhibited an enhanced catalytic activity in water, contrasting with the pristine MWCNTs as well as the parent organic molecule, which failed to catalyze the reaction efficiently. Furthermore, the modified MWCNTs proved to catalyze the aldol reaction even after three repetitive cycles. Overall, a green approach for the aldol reaction is presented, where water can be employed as the solvent and modified MWCNTs can be used as catalysts, which can be successfully recovered and reused, while their catalytic activity is retained.
NetState I of the communication-catalysis protocol is defined by a 1 : 1 mixture of the nanoswitches [Cu(1)]+ and 2. Upon one-electron oxidation at the ferrocenyl unit of the switch [Cu(1)]+, copper(I) ions are released that after translocation toggle nanoswitch 2 → [Cu(2)]+ (NetState II) within 4 min. NetState I was fully reset within 1 min by reduction of 1+ → 1. Running this redox-triggered switching protocol in the presence of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, diethyl malonate and piperidine (catalyst) allows toggling of a catalyzed Knoevenagel addition from ON to OFF and back to ON.
The molecular-imprinting approach was used to obtain a nanogel preparation capable of catalysing the cross-aldol reaction between 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and acetone. A polymerisable proline derivative was used as the functional monomer to mimic the enamine-based mechanism of aldolase type I enzymes. The diketone template used to create the cavity was designed to imitate the intermediate of the aldol reaction and was bound to the functional monomer using a reversible covalent interaction prior to polymerisation. By using a high-dilution polymerisation method, soluble imprinted nanogels were prepared with dimensions similar to those of an enzyme and with the advantage of solubility and flexibility previously unattainable with monolithic polymers. Following template removal and estimation of active-site concentrations, the kinetic characterisation of both imprinted and non-imprinted nanogels was carried out with catalyst concentrations between 0.7 and 3.5 mol %. Imprinted nanogel AS147 was found to have a k(cat) value of 0.25 x 10(-2) min(-1), the highest value ever achieved with imprinted polymers catalysing C--C bond formation. Comparison of the catalytic constants for both imprinted nanogel AS147 and non-imprinted nanogel AS133 gave a ratio of k(cat 147)/k(cat 133)=18.8, which is indicative of good imprinting efficiency and highlights the significance of the template during the imprinting process. This work represents a significant demonstration of the superiority of nanogels, when the molecular-imprinting approach is used, over "bulk" polymers for the generation of catalysts.
Aim A quantitative method was established for the determination of Chloramphenicol,Metronidazole,2-Amino-1-(4-nitrophenyl)propane-1,3-diol and 4-Nitrobenzaldehyde in Collunarium by means of HPLC.Method The chromatographic conditions includes Intersil C_(18) column and mobile phase consist of methanol-water-triethylamine(480∶520∶7,containing 1% NaH_2PO_4,0.2% 1-heptanesulfonate,sodium salt,to regulate pH to 3.0 with phosphoric acid).The flow rate is 1.0ml/min.The detective wavelength was 270 nm performed at room temperature.Results The number of theoretical plates caculated by metronidazole,chloramphenicol 2-Amino-1-(4-nitrophenyl)propane-1,3-diol and 4-Nitrobenzaldehyde peak were 4 700,4 500,4 400 and 1 500 respectively;the regression equations were Y=19 156 100.5X+424 145.7(r=0.999 9),Y=65 390 024.2X-5 660.6(r=0.999 9),Y=39 817 070.9X+1 373 589.3(r=0.999 8),Y=83 051 977.5X-284 191.7(r=0.999 8) respectively,the linear ranges were 0.423 0～2.115μg,0.4500～2.250μg,0.6600～3.300μg,0.444 0～2.220μg respectively;the average recovery RSD were 100.8%,1.4%;99.2%,1.2%;101.1%,1.5%;99.3%,1.6% respectively;the measurable lowest limit were 0.002,0.002,0.002,0.003μg respectively.Conclusion The method is rapid,accurate and reliable.
∞3[Cu2(mand)2(hmt)]·H2O (where mand is totally deprotonated mandelic acid (racemic mixture) and hmt is hexamethylenetetramine) proved to be a stable metal–organic framework (MOF) structure under thermal activation and catalytic conditions, as confirmed by both the in situ PXRD (Powder X-ray diffraction) and ATR–FTIR (Attenuated total reflection-Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy) haracterization. The non-activated MOF was completely inert as catalyst for the Henry reaction, as the accessibility of the substrates to the channels was completely blocked by H-bonded water to the mand entities and CO2 adsorbed on the Lewis basic sites of the hmt. Heating at 140 °C removed these molecules. Only an insignificant change in the relative ratios of the XRD facets due to the capillary forces associated to the removal of the guest molecules from the network has been observed. This treatment afforded the accessibility of nitromethane and various aldehydes (4-bromobenzaldehyde, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, and p-tolualdehyde) to the active catalytic sites, leading to conversions up to 48% and selectivities up to 98% for the desired nitroaldol products. The behavior of the catalyst is solvent-sensitive. Protic solvents completely inhibited the reaction due to the above-mentioned strong H-bonds. Accordingly, very good results were obtained only with aprotic solvents such as acetonitrile and 1,4-dioxane. The synthesized MOF is completely recyclable as demonstrated for five successive cycles.
The Lewis base N-methylpyrrolidine acts in water as an efficient promoter of tandem reactions between 2 cyclopenten-1-one and aqueous formaldehyde. The reaction pathway includes, as consecutive independent steps, a MBH reaction and a double cross-aldol reaction to furnish the new 2,5,5-tris(hydroxymethyl)-2-cyclopenten-1-one in excellent yield. A range of cyclic enones and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde undergo the tandem reaction similarly. The reaction mechanism was also investigated.
Free silanol groups are known to promote the activity of aminated silica. In this work the effect of the silanol-to-amine ratio on the aldol condensation of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and acetone is investigated in a range from 0 to 2.4. Irrespective of the amine density, identical, moderate turnover frequencies are obtained if the silica exclusively has amines on its surface. The turnover frequency increases with increasing silanol-to-amine ratio until an upper limit is reached at a silanol-to-amine ratio of 1.7. At this upper limit the turnover frequency is a factor5 higher than the turnover frequencies obtained with the monofunctional amine-based catalysts. This increase is ascribed to hydrogen-bridge interactions between the silanols and the carbonyl moiety of the reactants that provoke a more easy interaction between the carbonyl moiety and the amine as required for the aldol condensation. The observation that higher values than one for the silanol-to-amine ratio are required is rationalized by computer simulations. It was found that amine groups were grafted on the silica surface in a clustered manner, originating from positive deviations from ideality in the synthesis mixture, that is, from clustering of the amine precursor in the liquid phase.
Condensation of acetylacetone with 4-methoxybenzaldehyde, 2,4-dimethoxybenzaldehyde, 3,4-dimethoxybenzaldehyde, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and 2,4-dinitrobenzaldehyde in water and in the presence of cetyltrimethylammonium bromide (CTABr) as cationic surfactant in dilute sodium hydroxide at room temperature did not afford the expected arylideneacetylacetone but yielded 1H-inden-1-one derivatives 1, while, with piperonaldehyde under the same conditions afforded dipiperonylideneacetone 2. Also 3-acetylthiophene condensed with some aromatic aldehydes under the same conditions gave the expected stereoselective thienylpropenones 4. The structures of the products were identified by IR, NMR, Mass spectral data and elemental analysis.
Direct Aldol reaction of aromatic aldehydes with ketone were investigated using Brnsted acid as the catalyst and glycosyl-tolysulfonyhydraines as the cocatalyst in water. Effect of different catalyst and cocatalyst,HAc and glycosyl-tolysulfonyhydraines amount,substrates amount on aldol reaction were investigated by the reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with cyclohexanone to2-[hydroxy-( 4-nitrophenyl) ]methylcyclohexanone. The yield of 2-[hydroxy-( 4-nitrophenyl) ]methylcyclohexanone was 93% under optimum reaction conditions [HAc was 40 mol%,glycosyl-tolysulfonyhydraines was 30 mol%,r was 1∶ 5,at room temperature for 12 h]. Most acids can catalyze aldol reaction in water assisted by glycosyl-tolysulfonyhydraines. In comparison with surfactant assisted aldol reaction in water,the scope of substrates was improved.
The direct aldol reaction between acetone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde catalyzed by sterically hindered l-prolinamide derivative (64 atoms) of the (11S,12S)-9,10-dihydro-9,10-ethanoanthracene-11,12-diamine molecule has been investigated using density functional theory at the B3LYP/6-31G(d) level of theory. The reliability of the B3LYP/6-31G(d) calculations to elucidate the reaction mechanism and estimate activation and reaction energies was confirmed by energy calculation of the net reaction with full geometry optimizations of the reactants and product at the B3LYP/6-311++G(2d,2p) as well as B2PLYP/def2-TZVPP levels with correction to Van der Waals interaction. The calculations reveal that the l-prolinamide derivative catalyzes the reaction according to a multistep enamine mechanism with highly activated C–C bond and/or enamine formation in the proposed mechanism. The final elementary reaction – the C–N bond cleavage in the chiral diol adduct – is accompanied by a very large barrier, which may inhibit further progression of the reaction. The origin of the enantioselectivity and the corresponding reaction paths to a chiral product were unambiguously identified. Copyright © 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Abstract A new conjugated aromatic poly [(pyrrole-2, 5-diyl)-co-(4-nitrobenzylidene)] (PPNB) have been prepared by polycondensation of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and pyrrole catalyzed by Maghnite-H + was reported. Maghnite-H + is a montmorillonite sheet silicate clay, which was exchanged with protons. The results reveal that the yield of PTTM increases with time and Mag-H amount. The conjugated polymer was characterized by means of FT-IR spectroscopy, UV–vis spectroscopy, matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time of-flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry, thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) and X-ray diffraction. The X-ray data showed the presence of a backbone form of the PPNB formed. The new polymer is a useful precursors to small-bandgap polymers based on poly (heteroary1ene methines) and is also a useful model system for the investigation of the effects of π-conjugation length on the electronic and optical properties of the conjugated polymers. The electrical conductivity of the synthesized polymer was σ = 0.02251 Ω cm −1 . The results obtained by means of the optical measurements and analyzed by different models, show clearly that our material (PPNB) is a good semi-conductor, where the optical gap separating the extrema of the valence and the conduction band is estimated at 3.7 ± 0.2 eV. This result is in good agreement with those prepared with tetrahedral amorphous carbon.
A polystyrene surface (PS) was initially treated by cold nitrogen and oxygen plasma in order to incorporate in particular amine and hydroxyl functions, respectively. The evolution of the chemical nature of the surface was further monitored over a long time period (580 days) by chemical assay, XPS and contact angle measurements. Surface density quantification of primary amine groups was performed using three chemical amine assays: 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (4-NBZ), Sulfo succinimidyl 6-[3'(2 pyridyldithio)-pionamido] hexanoate (Sulfo-LC-SPDP) and iminothiolane (ITL). The results showed amine densities were in the range of 2 per square nanometer (comparable to the results described in the literature) after 5min of nitrogen plasma treatment. Over the time period investigated, chemical assays, XPS and contact angles suggest a drastic significant evolution of the chemical nature of the surface within the first two weeks. Beyond that time period and up to almost two years, nitrogen plasma modified substrates exhibits a slow and continuous oxidation whereas oxygen plasma modifed polystyrene surface is chemically stable after two weeks of storage. The latter appeared to "ease of" showing relatively mild changes within the one year period. Our results suggest that it may be preferable to wait for a chemical "stabilization" period of two weeks before subsequent covalent immobilization of proteins onto the surface. The originality of this work resides in the study of the plasma treated surface chemistry evolution over long periods of storage time (580 days) considerably exceeding those described in the literature.
Abstract The combination of (Sa)-binam- l -Pro (5 mol %) and benzoic acid (10 mol %) was used as catalysts in the direct aldol reaction between different aliphatic ketones and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde under solvent-free reaction conditions. Three different procedures are assayed: magnetic stirring (method A), magnetic stirring after previous dissolution in THF and evaporation (method B), and ball mill technique (method C), methods A and B being the simplest. These reaction conditions allowed us to reduce the amount of required ketone to 2 equiv to give the aldol product in similar reaction times and regio-, diastero-, and enantioselectivities than in organic or aqueous solvents.
Abstract To develop PET radiotracers for imaging of Alzheimer's disease, a new carbon-11 labeled potent and selective γ-secretase modulator (GSM) has been synthesized. The reference standard tetrahydrobenzisoxazole derivative 8 and its desmethylated precursor 9 were synthesized from cyclohex-2-en-1-one and 3-hydroxy-4-nitrobenzaldehyde in eight and nine steps with 11% and 5% overall chemical yield, respectively. The radiotracer [11C]8 was prepared from its corresponding precursor 9 with [11C]CH3OTf through O–11C-methylation and isolated by RP-HPLC combined with SPE in 45–50% radiochemical yield, based on [11C]CO2 and decay corrected to EOB. The radiochemical purity was >99%, and the molar activity (Am) at EOB was 555–740 GBq/μmol.
I found an efficient method to control the morphology of the organically monofunctionalized mesoporous silica materials by introducing different types of organoalkoxysilanes in a base-catalyzed co-condensation reaction. The monofunctionalized materials exhibit different particle morphologies relative to the pure MCM-41 material. The concentration dependence of the morphology is a critical factor to determine the final particle shape. A proposed mechanism of the shape evolution is also offered. After understanding the role of organoalkoxysilanes in producing various well-shaped nanomaterials, I also obtained a series of bifunctional mesoporous silica materials with certain particle morphology. A series of bifunctional mesoporous silica nanospheres (MSNs) whose physicochemical properties was investigated via solid state NMR techniques and Cu{sup 2+} adsorption capacity tests, The ratio of two different organic groups inside of mesopores of these MSNs could be fine-tuned. These MSNs serve as a useful model system to study substrate selectivity in catalytic reactions and sorption phenomena. For example, the Cu{sup 2+} adsorption capacity of these materials was dictated by the chemical nature of the mesopores generated by the different organic functional groups. An investigation of the substrate selectivity of the bifunctionalized MSNs in a competitive nitroaldol reaction using an equimolar amount of two competing 4-nitrobenzaldehyde derivatives wasmore » performed. Shape-controlled bifunctional MSNs were employed as the catalysts. The properties of the MSNs were investigated using various spectroscopic methods and electron microscopy. The more hydrophobic the surface organic groups are, the higher the ratio of hydrophobic final product. This is the first example to demonstrate the selection of substrate using physicochemical nature of the mesopore surface other than the conventional shape selection in zeolite systems. I also created a cooperative dual catalyst system that is capable of activating two different substrates in aldol reaction, Henry reaction and cyanosilylation. One catalytic group activates the nucleophile, another organic group simultaneously activates the electrophile to enhance the total reaction rate. I systematically vaned the amount of two organic groups and performed the three model reactions to compare rate enhancements.« less
Abstract Novel β-homoproline derivatives, 2-hydroxy-2-(pyrrolidin-2-yl)acetic acids ( R,S )- and ( S , S )- 1a – d , were synthesized. All of the prepared compounds were used as organocatalysts in the direct asymmetric aldol reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with several ketones. Among these catalysts, ( R )-2-hydroxy-2-(( S )-pyrrolidin-2-yl)acetic acid ( R,S )- 1a showed good catalytic ability in the formation of aldol product 13 (up to 69% ee, 95% yield), which was similar to the results catalyzed by l -proline (71% ee, 96% yield). Relatively low yields and low enantioselectivities were observed in aldol reactions catalyzed by ( S , S )- 1a , for example, 13 was obtained in 55% yield and 13% ee. The aldol reaction catalyzed by the methyl-protected carboxylic acid 1b and esters 1c , d produced much lower chemical yields and enantioselectivities during the formation of 13 . The cooperative effect of the ( R )-configured hydroxyl group and the carboxyl group was found to play an important role in inducing enantioselectivity in the aldol reaction. Relatively high diastereoselectivities ( anti : syn = 85:15) and enantioselectivity ( anti , 83% ee) were observed in the aldol reactions of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with cyclohexanone, which was catalyzed by ( R,S )- 1a .
Abstract The synthesis of several 2′-hydroxynitrochalcones has been accomplished by an aldol reaction of equimolar amounts of the appropriate 2′-hydroxyacetophenones with nitrobenzaldehydes in alkaline medium. The reaction of 2′-hydroxyacetophenones bearing a 6′-methoxy with 2- or 4-nitrobenzaldehydes gave the expected 2′-hydroxynitrochalcones and also 4-methoxynitroaurones, being the latter ones the unique reaction products when using 2 molar equiv of nitrobenzaldehydes. The reaction mechanisms for the formation of both products are discussed. The 13 C NMR chemical shifts have been discussed first by means of an empirical additive model and then by comparison with GIAO/B3LYP calculated absolute shieldings.
The Strecker reaction involves the formation of aminonitriles by the reaction of an aldehyde with an amine in the presence of cyanide ions. In this work kinetic, equilibrium and synthetic measurements have been made using benzaldehyde, or 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, as the aldehyde and benzylamine or allylamine as the amine. A side reaction involves the formation of a cyanohydrin from benzaldehyde and cyanide ion. The equilibria involved m the reaction and their pH dependence have been examined. For comparison values for the equilibrium constants for the reaction of benzaldehyde with sulfite are also reported. The syntheses and structural characterisations of N-benzylidene benzylamine, N-benzylidene allylamine and N-(4-nitro)-benzylidene benzylamine are reported. A major part of the thesis is concerned with the kinetics and equilibria involved in the reaction of N-benzylidene benzylamine and N-benzylidene allylamine with cyanide in aqueous solutions. The results are compatible with the rate-determining step involving reaction of the corresponding iminium ions with cyanide ions. The pH profile is bell-shaped with a plateau between pH = 6.5 and 8.5 defined by the pK(_a) values of the iminium ions and hydrogen cyanide. pK(_a) values of 6.14 ± 0.1 and 6.05 ± 0.1 have been calculated for N- benzylidene benzyliminium and N-benzylidene allyliminium ions respectively. Rate constants for reaction of cyanide ion with these cations are 6.70x10(^3) and 1.03x10(^4) dm(^3)mol(^-1)s(^-1) respectively. The hydrolysis reactions of imines to yield benzaldehyde have also been quantitatively investigated. The relatively low reactivity found for those iminium ions may be attributed to charge delocalisation in the aromatic ring. An important aspect of the Strecker reaction is the possibility of forming enantiomerically pure products. The asymmetric catalysis by Salen metal complexes of the reaction of the imines with trimethylsilyl cyanide in organic solvents has been investigated. Various methods for the determination of the enantiomeric excess were tested and the most reliable was found to be use of camphorsulfonic acid. The reaction carried out in the presence of a Salen V(V) complex was optimised to yield aminonitriles in a 80% e.e. at -30 C and 69% e.e. at room temperature. Trifluoroacetic anhydride (TFFA) has been reported in the literature as a reagent for reaction with aminonitriles to allow the separation of enantiomers. Here the reaction of imines with TFAA in acetonitrile and in benzene has been investigated In each solvent there are strong reactions yielding hifluoroacetylated derivatives which are thought to exist in both ionic and covalentiy-bound forms.
Some thiosemicarbazones such as 4-nitrobenzaldehyde-[N(4)-methyl, N(4)-phenyl thiosemicarbazone] (L1), Fluoren-9-one-[N(4)-(4-methylpiperidyl) thiosemicarbazone] (L2) and 4’-hydroxyacetophenone-[N(4)-(4-methylpiperidyl) thiosemicarbazone] (L3) were prepared by the classical method. Their components and structures were determined by the spectra of IR, UV-Vis, 1 H-NMR, 13 C-NMR, COSY, HSQC, HRMS. According to the results of SciFinder at KU Leuven (Belgium) on December 19 th 2014, the structures of L2 and L3 have not been reported in any scientific studies. Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE /* Style Definitions */ ::: table.MsoNormalTable ::: {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; ::: mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; ::: mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; ::: mso-style-noshow:yes; ::: mso-style-priority:99; ::: mso-style-parent:""; ::: mso-padding-alt:0cm 5.4pt 0cm 5.4pt; ::: mso-para-margin:0cm; ::: mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; ::: mso-pagination:widow-orphan; ::: font-size:10.0pt; ::: font-family:"Times New Roman","serif";}
The synthesis and catalytic applications of a new aryl-based unsymmetrical PCS-pincer complex are reported. Preparation of the robust air- and moisture-stable PCS-pincer palladium complex 5[X] started from the symmetrical alpha,alpha'-dibromo-meta-xylene and involved the selective substitution of one bromide by PPh(2)(BH(3)), followed by substitution of the second bromide by SPh and subsequent introduction of the palladium. The new PCS complexes (5[X]) were employed as catalysts in two important organic transformations. Firstly, complex 5[Cl] displays high catalytic activity in aldol reactions but enters the catalytic cycle as a precatalyst. Secondly, complex 5[BF(4)] displays tandem catalytic activity in the coupling of allyl chlorides with aldehydes and imines in the presence of hexamethylditin. In these tandem catalytic reactions the first process is the conversion of allyl chlorides into trimethylallyltin (and trimethyltin chloride) with Sn(2)Me(6), which is followed by catalytic allylation of aldehyde and sulfonimine substrates. In addition, we present a new catalytic process for the one-pot allylation of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with vinyloxirane. The catalytic performance of the novel PCS-pincer palladium complex was compared to those of its symmetrical PCP- and SCS-pincer complex analogues. It was concluded that the unsymmetrical PCS complex advantageously unifies the attractive catalytic features of the corresponding symmetrical pincer complexes including both (pi-) electron-withdrawing (such as phosphorus) or (sigma-) electron-donating (such as sulfur and nitrogen) heteroatoms. Thus, in the aldol reaction the PCS-pincer palladium complex 5[X] provides a high turnover frequency, while in the tandem process both reactions are catalysed with sufficiently high activity.
The photoconversion of 4-nitrophenylnitormethane into 4-nitrobenzaldehyde in an ethanol–water system was found to proceed by an intramolecular rearrangement of oxygen of adjacent nitro group. Cationic surfactant increased the quantum yield of this photorearrangement by a factor of 20, but β-cyclodextrin decreased it.
The original histochemical method for the visualization of tripeptidyl aminopeptidase I (TPP I, EC 3.4.14.9) is developed. The method is based on the new synthetic substrates Gly-L-Pro-L-Met(or L-Ala)-5-chloro-1-anthraquinonyl hydrazide (Gly-Pro-Met[Ala]-CAH). The final reaction product is represented as tripeptidyl-5-chloro-1 anthraquinonyl hydrazides (TPP-CAH). Upon the enzyme action the practically in aqueous media insoluble brown-reddish dye 5-chloro-1-anthraquinonyl hydrazine (CAH) is released, which reacts simultaneously with aromatic aldehydes as e.g. 4-anisaldehyde (p-AA) or 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (p-NBA), resulting in microcrystalline or amorphous deeply colored hydrazones. The last compounds mark accurately the locations of enzymatic activity. The biochemically suggested lysosomal localization of this collagen-degrading exopeptidase is thus confirmed on tissue sections. More information about the distribution of TPP I in different rat organs is presented as well.
As outlined in Scheme 2 , we envisioned that complexation of the carbonyl compound to the phosphonium salt might proceed via a phosphorane-type, trigonal-bipyramidal intermediate, possibly as a -complex, activating the carbonyl towards the addition process. In addition to their employment in Suzuki coupling reactions [10] , phosphonium salts have recently been used as solvents for hydroformylation [11] , transfer hydrogenation [12] and Diels-Alder reactions [13] . In addition, one recent report describes the use of a phosphonium salt as a solvent and promoter for the addition of trimethylsilyl cyanide to aldehydes [14] . It is likewise possible that the latter two reactions proceed through related phosphorane-type dienophile and carbonyl activation processes. Our initial experimentation consisted of screening a variety of trihexyl(tetradecyl) phosphonium salts containing a range of anionic partners through which we identified the decanoate salt as the most efficient promoter of the addition reaction. As an example, the reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (1a) in dry THF containing nitromethane (Table 1, entry a) and trihexyl(tetradecyl)phosphonium decanoate (2 mol%), proceeded to give the nitroaldol product (3a) in 100% yield [15] . The reaction was thus proven to be catalytic in respect to the phosphonium salt (50 turnovers) and no trace of the corresponding nitroolefin (4a) was detected in the reaction conducted under these conditions.
Abstract A facile preparative method for stable isotope labeled molecules is widely demanded in analytical standard chemicals, biochemical science and medical applications. A rapid 16 O– 18 O isotope exchange reaction of carbonyl group to attain a high isotopic purity has been demonstrated using a capillary column reactor packed with Dowex 50WX4 resin as a solid acid catalyst. Thus, carbonyl- 18 O compounds such as benzaldehyde - 18 O , 3-/4-nitrobenzaldehydes - 18 O , 1-naphthaldehyde - 18 O and acetophenone - 18 O were produced with more than 95 at.% purity under the stable flow operation at a moderate temperature within a residence time of 51 s, when the acetonitrile solutions of carbonyl - 16 O compounds were injected to the reactor with 100 eq. mol of H 2 18 O. The maximal product isotopic ratio, z max , has been formularized as z max = ( x 0 y + z 0 )/( y + 1), where x 0 and z 0 are isotopic ratio of H 2 O and carbonyl group as reactants, respectively, and y is the molar ratio [H 2 O]/[carbonyl group]. The achievement ratio of the actual isotopic ratio ( z ) to theoretical z max has reached 0.98 or higher.
l-Prolinamides 2, prepared from l-proline and simple aliphatic and aromatic amines, have been found to be active catalysts for the direct aldol reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with neat acetone at room temperature. They give moderate enantioselectivities of up to 46% enantiomeric excess (ee). The enantioselectivity increases as the amide N-H becomes a better hydrogen bond donor. l-Prolinamides 3, derived from the reaction of l-proline with alpha,beta-hydroxyamines such that there is a terminal hydroxyl group, show more efficient catalysis and higher enantioselectivities. In particular, catalyst 3h, prepared from l-proline and (1S,2S)-diphenyl-2-aminoethanol, exhibits high enantioselectivities of up to 93% ee for aromatic aldehydes and up to >99% ee for aliphatic aldehydes under -25 degrees C. Model reactions of benzaldehyde with three enamines derived from the condensation of prolinamides with acetone have been studied by quantum mechanics calculations. The calculations reveal that the amide N-H and the terminal hydroxyl groups form hydrogen bonds with the benzaldehyde substrate. These hydrogen bonds reduce the activation energy and cause high enantioselectivity. Our results suggest a new strategy in the design of new organic catalysts for direct asymmetric aldol reactions and related transformations.
A novel series of platinum(II) and palladium(II) complexes have been synthesized by template condensation of 4-methoxybenzaldehyde, benzaldehyde, 4-chlorobenzaldehyde and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, with appropriate 4-aminoantipyrine (4-AAP) in the presence of K(2)PtCl(4)/PdCl(2) to form complexes of the type [M(L(n))Cl(2)](where M=Pt(II) or Pd(II)). The corresponding Schiff base complexes mixed ligand were prepared by condensation of [M(L(n))Cl(2)] with ethanolamine (LH). The complexes have been characterized with the help of elemental analysis, IR, (1)H and (13)C NMR, electronic spectra, conductance measurements, magnetic susceptibilities and thermal analysis. On the basis of these studies, it is clear that ligands coordinated to metal atom in a mononuclear (NO) in (1-6), Schiff base complexes (NN(*)) in (7-9) and monobasic tridentate Schiff base complexes (NN(*)O) in (10-12). Thus, suitable square planar geometry for tetradentated state has been suggested for the metal complexes. Various ligand and nephelouxetic parameter have been calculated for the complexes. The thermal decomposition for complexes was studied.
Abstract We succeeded in the asymmetric nitroaldol (Henry) reaction of aromatic aldehydes with nitromethane using human serum albumin (HSA) in water at neutral pH. The reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde smoothly proceeded for 24 h at 30 °C to afford the corresponding ( R )-2-nitro-1-(4-nitrophenyl)ethanol (27% ee). Lowering the reaction temperature to 0 °C improved the enantioselectivity (53% ee). Although the denatured HSA also catalyzed the coupling reaction, no enantioselectivity was observed. The reaction was also applicable to other substrates bearing various substitutions on the benzene ring, and the ee of ( R )-1-(biphenyl-4-yl)-2-nitroethanol was up to 79% ee.
2-Nitrobenzaldehyde was found to efficiently block singlet oxygen generation in a series of different test samples upon exposure to UV and visible light under aerobic conditions. The effect of quenching singlet oxygen formation was monitored in the presence of 1, 4-diazabicyclo [2.2.2] octane (DABCO) acting as a well-known singlet oxygen scavenger. A comparison of different nitrobenzaldehyde isomers with other highly effective synthetic antioxidants used in the food industry such as butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT), butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA), tert-butylhydroquinone (TBHQ) revealed that the protection of materials from singlet oxygen decreases in the order of 2-nitrobenzaldehyde > DABCO > TBHQ > 3-nitrobenzaldehyde > BHA > 4-nitrobenzaldehyde > BHT. Upon addition of 2-nitrobenzaldehyde, the oxidation of fatty acids and the degradation of photosensitizers was found to be considerably diminished, which indicates that the presence of 2-nitrobenzaldehyde has a significant protective influence by restricting the singlet oxygen generation and photodegradation of dyes. Moreover, the compound turned out to display its highly suppressing effects on typical singlet oxygen-dependent reactions, such as fatty acid photooxidation and dye photosensitizer degradation, in a rather broad spectral region covering wavelengths from 300 nm (UV-B) to 575 nm (close to the maximum of ambient solar radiation).
L-Prolinamides 2, prepared from L-proline and simple aliphatic and aromatic amines, have been found to be active catalysts for the direct aldol reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with neat acetone at room temperature. They give moderate enantioselectivities of up to 46% enantiomeric excess (ee). The enantioselectivity increases as the amide NOH becomes a better hydrogen bond donor. L-Prolinamides 3, derived from the reaction of L-proline with ␣,␤-hydroxyamines such that there is a terminal hydroxyl group, show more efficient catalysis and higher enantioselectivities. In particular, catalyst 3h, prepared from L-proline and (1S,2S)-diphenyl-2-aminoethanol, exhibits high enantioselectivities of up to 93% ee for aromatic aldehydes and up to >99% ee for aliphatic aldehydes under ؊25°C. Model reactions of benzaldehyde with three enamines derived from the condensation of prolinamides with acetone have been studied by quantum mechanics calculations. The calculations reveal that the amide NOH and the terminal hydroxyl groups form hydrogen bonds with the benzaldehyde substrate. These hydrogen bonds reduce the activation energy and cause high enantioselectivity. Our results suggest a new strategy in the design of new organic catalysts for direct asymmetric aldol reactions and related transformations.
4.6. Catalytic Reactions Inside Microreactor 4.6.1. Knoevenagel Condensation Reaction. The Knoevenagel condensation reaction of salicylaldehyde (8, 50 μM) and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (9, 50 μM) with malononitrile (6, 60 mM) ( Table 1 , entries 1 and 2) was carried out in a catalytic microreactor using similar conditions mentioned above. The formation of the products was determined by following the increase in the extinction of the products (2-hydroxybenzylidene)malononitrile (13, ε 292 =8100/(M cm)) and 2-(4-nitrobenzylidene) malononitrile (14, ε 302 =32,640/(M cm)) at 292 nm and 302 nm, respectively. 4.6.2. Coumarin Derivatives. 3-Cyanocoumarin (15) and 3-(ethoxycarbonyl)coumarin (16) ( Table 1 , entries 3 and 4) were prepared by reacting salicylaldehyde (8, 50 μM) with ethyl cyanoacetate (10, 125 mM) and diethyl malonate (11, 125 mM), respectively, using the same reaction conditions as above, but with a residence time of 52 min. The formation of 15 and 16 was determined based on the extinction at 295 nm (ε 295 =14,940/ (M cm)) and 289 nm (ε 289 =12,880/(M cm)), respectively.
4.6.3. Nitroaldol Condensation Reaction. The nitroaldol condensation reaction between 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (9, 50 μM) and nitromethane (12, 30 mM) was also carried out under similar conditions mentioned above. The formation of the product trans-4-nitro-β-nitrostyrene (17) was determined based on the increase in the extinction of the product at 309 nm (ε 309 =19,580/(M cm)).
Abstract: 2-Nitrobenzaldehyde was found to efficiently block singlet oxygen generation in a series of different test samples upon exposure to UV and visible light under aerobic conditions. The effect of quenching singlet oxygen formation was monitored in the presence of 1, 4-diazabicyclo [2.2.2] octane (DABCO) acting as a well-known singlet oxygen scavenger. A comparison of different nitrobenzaldehyde isomers with other highly effective synthetic antioxidants used in the food industry such as butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT), butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA), tert-butylhydroquinone (TBHQ) revealed that the protection of materials from singlet oxygen decreases in the order of 2-nitrobenzaldehyde > DABCO > TBHQ > 3-nitrobenzaldehyde > BHA > 4-nitrobenzaldehyde > BHT. Upon addition of 2-nitrobenzaldehyde, the oxidation of fatty acids and the degradation of photosensitizers was found to be considerably diminished, which indicates that the presence of 2-nitrobenzaldehyde has a significant protective influence by restricting the singlet oxygen generation and photodegradation of dyes. Moreover, the compound turned out to display its highly suppressing effects on typical singlet oxygen-dependent reactions, such as fatty acid photooxidation and dye photosensitizer degradation, in a rather broad spectral region covering wavelengths from 300 nm (UV-B) to 575 nm (close to the maximum of ambient solar radiation).
Solvent-free asymmetric aldol reactions between cyclohexanone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde using chiral amine macrocycle–metal(II) complexes as catalysts in a ball mill afforded the anti-aldol product as the major isomer with up to 93% ee.
An NAD(P)-dependent 3 alpha-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (EC 1.1.1.50) was purified to homogeneity from rat liver cytosol, where it is responsible for most if not all of the capacity for the oxidation of androsterone, 1-acenaphthenol and benzenedihydrodiol (trans-1,2-dihydroxycyclohexa-3,5-diene). The dehydrogenase has many properties (substrate specificity, pI, Mr, amino acid composition) in common with the dihydrodiol dehydrogenase (EC 1.3.1.20) purified from the same source [Vogel, Bentley, Platt & Oesch (1980) J. Biol. Chem. 255, 9621-9625]. Since 3 alpha-hydroxysteroids are by far the most efficient substrates, the enzyme is more appropriately designated a 3 alpha-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase. It also promotes the NAD(P)H-dependent reductions of quinones (e.g. 9,10-phenanthrenequinone, 1,4-benzoquinone), aromatic aldehydes (4-nitrobenzaldehyde) and aromatic ketones (4-nitroacetophenone). The dehydrogenase is not inhibited by dicoumarol, disulfiram, hexobarbital or pyrazole. The mechanism of the powerful inhibition of this enzyme by both non-steroidal and steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs [Penning & Talalay (1983) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 80, 4504-4508] was examined with several substrates. Most non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are competitive inhibitors (e.g. Ki for indomethacin, 0.20 microM for 9,10-phenanthrenequinone reduction at pH 6.0, and 0.835 microM for androsterone oxidation at pH 7.0), except for salicylates, which act non-competitively (e.g. Ki for aspirin, 650 microM for androsterone oxidation). The inhibitory potency of these agents falls sharply as the pH is increased from 6 to 9. Most anti-inflammatory steroids are likewise competitive inhibitors, except for the most potent (betamethasone and dexamethasone), which act non-competitively. The enzyme is inhibited competitively by arachidonic acid and various prostaglandins.
A novel and simple organocatalyst derived from proline was designed, synthesized and tested for its catalytic potential in a direct asymmetric aldol reaction between 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and cychlohexanone in aqueous media. The relatively inexpensive and safe solvent, water stabilized the transition state, and increased reactivity and selectivity of catalyst. The diastereo- and enantio-selective products of the reaction were obtained in excellent yields. Graphical Abstract
Lipases catalyzed the reaction between 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and 2-cyclohexen-1-one in aqueous-DMSO co-solvent mixtures to give Morita–Baylis–Hillman product and aldol product. Among lipases, Burkholderia cepacia lipase gave the best overall conversion of 96 % in 50 % (v/v) DMSO while Mucor javanicus lipase showed highest stereoselectivity in the formation of the aldol (79 % ee) and Morita–Baylis–Hillman product (63 % ee) with 30 % (v/v) DMSO. Lipase catalysed Morita–Baylis–Hillman reaction
Abstract Two new 3-aryl-5-(4-nitrobenzylidene)-2-thioxothiazolidin-4-one derivatives ( 1 & 2 ) were synthesized by the Knoevenagel condensation reaction of 3-(4-aryl)-2-thioxo-1,3-thiazolidin-4-ones with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde. Both products were isolated as orange crystalline solids in good yields and were fully characterized by analytical, spectroscopic and structural methods. The interesting supramolecular assemblies of the title compounds observed in the solid state were analyzed by Density Functional Theory (DFT) calculations (M06-2X/def2-TZVP), Molecular Electrostatic Potential (MEP) surfaces and characterized by means of the Bader's theory of “atoms-in-molecules” (AIM) and NCIplot. The computation of the energy features of the diverse noncovalent interactions including C H⋯π, π⋯π and lp⋯π-hole interactions revealed their conspicuous role in the stabilization of the three-dimensional supramolecular frameworks for both compounds in addition to the C H⋯O/S H-bonding interactions.
In order to find new antimalarial drugs, an exploration about the chemical properties of the starting compounds 3-amino-6-chloro-4-phenyl-1H-quinolin-2-one (1) and 3-amino-4-methyl-1H-quinolin-2-one (2) was developed. Acylation with acyl chloride, sulfonyl chloride and acetic anhydride were carried out. Despite a previous report [2], when acetyl chloride or acetic anhydride were assayed on 1, only the diacetyl derivative 7 was obtained. When this compound was heated at reflux temperature in a mixture of acetic acid and acetic anhydride, it was transformed in the oxazoloquinoline 8. Further reactions of the acyl derivatives with diazomethane afforded 1-methylated compounds. Compound 2 gave the imine 16 by condensation with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde.
An innovative block copolymer capillary coating P(MAn-alt-St)(127)-b-PSt(592), synthesized by maleic anhydride and styrene, was developed as a new kind of coating for capillary electrophoresis. The covalent bond coating was effectively applied in the separation of raw material (4-nitrobenzaldehyde) and production (2-[hydroxy(4-nitrophenyl)methyl]-cyclopent-2-enone) in a Baylis-Hillman reaction using ammonium acetate with 20% tetrahydrofuran (v/v) as the buffer solution. Electroosmotic flow measurement gave an instantly stable value after 70 times continued injection in 5 days and showed that P(MAn-alt-St)(127)-b-PSt(592) coatings could suppress electroosmotic flow effectively compared with the bare capillary. The effects of tetrahydrofuran and the pH of buffer on the separation were investigated. The characteristics of the coatings to form micelles similar to surfactants were detected by atomic force microscopy. Moreover, the superiority of this coating was further applied in the separation of four aromatic amines.
The molecular geometry, vibrational frequencies, 1H and 13C NMR chemical shifts, UV-vis spectra, HOMO-LUMO analyses, molecular electrostatic potentials (MEPs), , thermodynamic properties and atomic charges of 3- and 4-Nitrobenzaldehyde oxime (C7H6N2O3) molecules have been investigated by using Hartree-Fock (HF) and density functional theory (DFT/B3LYP) methods with the 6-311++G(d, p) basis set. The calculated optimized geometric parameters (bond lengths and bond angles), the vibrational frequencies calculated and 13C and 1H NMR chemical shifts values for the mentioned compounds are in a very good agreement with the experimental data. Furthermore, the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) and the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) have been simulated and the transition states, energy band gaps and molecular electrostatic potential (MEP) maps for each oxime compound have been determined. Additionally, we also report the infrared intensities and Raman activities for the compounds under study.
A few other types of dendrimers have been compared to PAMAM dendrimers. For instance, the catalytic efficiency of carbosilane dendrimers bearing SCS-pincer palladium complexes as terminal functions has been compared to that of PAMAM dendrimers bearing the same type of terminal functions. The PAMAM dendrimers were found to be superior, by showing a higher reaction rate and a higher linear/branched ratio, in the cross coupling reaction between vinyl epoxide and styrylboronic acid. In the auto-tandem catalysis of cynnamyl chloride, hexamethylditin, and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, only small differences were observed in the efficiency of both families of dendrimers [27] . The effect of PAMAM dendrimers and of triazine dendrimers of comparable size and number of terminal functions, both families being capped with primary amines, was tested toward platelet aggregation, in human platelet-rich plasma. It was shown that triazine dendrimers provoked platelet aggregation less aggressively than PAMAM dendrimers did [28] . The cytotoxicity of a series of aliphatic polyester dendrimers and PAMAM dendrimers, both having alcohol terminal functions, was evaluated toward human cervical cancer (HeLa), acute monocytic leukemia cells (THP.1), and primary human monocyte-derived macrophages. The aliphatic polyester dendrimers were found to be less toxic than the PAMAM dendrimers, and more easily cleavable [29] .
A straightforward procedure to synthesize cysteine functionalized materials with tailored support properties has been developed. It allows tuning the hydrophobicity of the material via the incorporation of aliphatics, aromatics or silica in the framework structure. The aldol condensation of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and acetone, as a probe reaction for the catalytic activity of the produced materials, exhibited a remarkable interplay between the reactant, solvent, traces of water and support hydrophobicity. A selective enrichment in the catalyst pores of specific bulk phase molecules is believed to be the key to achieve the targeted catalyst performance.
Ethyl ester derivatives of 6- and 8-substituted 2-methyl-1,4-dihydro-4-oxo-3-quinolinecarboxylic acids have been synthesized by treatment of the diethyl ester of acetylmalonic acid with 2- or 4-substituted anilines. Condensation of these newly synthesized quinolinecarboxylic acid derivatives with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde resulted in the formation of 6- and 8-substituted 2-[2-(4-nitrophenyl)-vinyl]-1, 4-dihydro-4-oxo-3-quinolinecarboxylic acids and ethyl esters of 6- and 8-substituted 2-[2-(4-nitrophenyl)vinyl]-4-acetoxy-3-quinolinecarboxylic acids. The tautomeric and conformational transformations of these newly synthesized compounds have also been investigated, using IR, NMR, and UV spectroscopy.
A straightforward procedure to synthesize cysteine functionalized materials with tailored support properties has been developed. It allows tuning the hydrophobicity of the material via the incorporation of aliphatics, aromatics or silica in the framework structure. The aldol condensation of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and acetone, as a probe reaction for the catalytic activity of the produced materials, exhibited a remarkable interplay between the reactant, solvent, traces of water and support hydrophobicity. A selective enrichment in the catalyst pores of specific bulk phase molecules is believed to be the key to achieve the targeted catalyst performance.
In this work, the wide variety of organo(bis)silanes is used to probe the selective enrichment of reactant molecules in amino acid functionalized catalysts and, consequently, optimize the catalytic performance in different environments. A catalyst library comprising different cysteine functionalized materials is prepared and the effect of the incorporation of different organic moieties is investigated in the aldol reaction of acetone with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde. Additionally, the ability of the materials to cope with traces of water in the reaction mixture is studied.
Microwave (MW) energy is well known to induce reduction in time of various reactions, yield enhancement and cleaner chemistry. Recently, this energy has been widely used as an alternative to conventional heating to a number of research programs and development processes, 1 whereby microwave-assisted organic synthesis (MAOS) become a fashion in organic chemistry. On the other hand, imidazoles possess important biological, pharmacological and therapeutic activities. [2] [3] [4] [5] Substituted 2-thioimidazoles are present in compounds that have antiasthmatic, 6 antiinflammatory, 7 antiulcerative, 8 antithrombotic, 9 fungicidal 10 and herbicidal 11 activities. As 1 H NMR spectrum of 1 showed the presence of only one singlet at down field indicating that 1a may be the possible tautomers, but that of 2 may not lead decisively to the particular tautomers (see later). Alkylation of 1 with chloroacetic acid in aqueous sodium hydroxide under MWI for 4 min afforded (4,5-diphenylimidazol-2-yl)mercaptoacetic acid (4) in 91% yield; conventional heating required 3 h. 20 Cyclization of 4 to the respective 5,6-diphenyl-2,3-dihydroimidazo[2,1-b]thiazol-3-one (5) was carried out by irradiation in acetic anhydride in a closed Teflon vessel for 3 min, instead of 1 h under conventional boiling. 21 Carboethoxymethylation of 1 and 2 with ethyl chloroacetate in presence of triethylamine under MWI for 3-4 min gave the respective esters 6 and 7 in 98 and 94% yield; conventional heating required 2-3 h to give 86 and 82% yield of 6 and 7, respectively. Nucleophilic attack of hydrazine on the carbonyl-amide of the thiazolone ring in 5 has been also proceeded by MWI for 2 min to afford the corresponding acid hydrazide 8 in 99% yield. Alternatively, the hydrazides 8 and 9 were synthesized by treatment of 6 and 7 with hydrazine hydrate in ethanol under MWI for 2-3 min to give 99 and 98% yield, respectively. The IR spectra of 6 and 7 showed a characteristic absorption bands at 1737 and 1739 cm -1 ; respectively for the ester carbonyl group which did not exist in 8 or 9, but amide absorption was instead appeared at 1664 and 1661 cm -1 , respectively. The 1 H NMR spectra of 6 and 7 showed a triplet at δ 1.31 and 1.28 due to CH 3 , a singlet at δ 3.70 and 4.01 due to SCH 2 and a quartet at δ 4.25 and 4.23 due to CH 2 groups, respectively. The phenyl protons and the imidazolyl NH group were also assigned. The hydrazone derivatives 10-17 were prepared in 90-98%, via the irradiation under MW for 2-3 min of 8 and 9 with isatin, 4-chloroisatin, 4-chloro and 4-nitrobenzaldehydes; conventional heating gave 80-88%. The structures of the new synthesized hydrazones were elucidated from their elemental and spectral analyses. Thus, their IR spectra showed characteristic absorption bands at 1625-1688 cm -1 for the carbonyl-amide groups. The imidazole ring was found to exist in thione-thiol equilibrium due to the mobility of the NH proton where the C-2 flanked between the two nitrogen atoms and can be linked to a mercapto or thione group (Scheme 1). 22 Theoretical studies on the tautomerism in unsubstituted 2-mercaptoimidazole using the three semiemperical calculation methods (AM1, MNDO and PM3) has shown that the thiol form was more stable than the thione form. 23 We have attempted to study theoretical approach to predict the tautomerism in di-and triphenyl-2-mercaptoimidazoles 1 and 2 and its effect on regioselectivity of alkylation. This was performed by considering the theoretical calculations for 1 and 2 by means of semiemperical AM1 methods which were carried out with MOPAC7 program package. 24 The heat of formation, dipole moment, highest occupied molecular orbital energies E HOMO , lowest unoccupied molecular orbital energies E LUMO and the charge density on imidazole heteroatoms as well as the relative stability of the tautomers of 1-3 have been taken into account (Table 1) . The relative stability (RS) calculations from gas phase AM1 method for the diphenylimidazole favored the predominance of the thione form 1a over the thiol form 1b with relative stability energy (-0.629 Kcal.mol -1 ). In contrast, the thiol form 2b in triphenylimidazole has been found to be more stable over the thione form 2a with relative stability energy (0.152 Kcal.mol -1 ) (Table 1) . However, the value of RS for 2 is less than that of 1.
In the course of a research program devoted to spontaneous mirror-symmetry breaking and asymmetric organoautocatalysis, [33] [34] [35] [36] [37] [38] [39] [40] we needed to prepare both the syn (3a) and the anti (3b) stereoisomers of the Mannich adduct from hydroxyacetone (1) and the glyoxylate-derived imine 2. Whereas 3a was easily obtained by L-proline catalysis under the reaction conditions previously described by Barbas III (Scheme 1, (a)),[11] the preparation of 3b proved more troublesome, since in our hands the L-tryptophan (L-Trp) catalysis of the reaction between 1 and 2[28] afforded (as reported) an inseparable 2:1 (anti:syn) mixture of 3b and 3a in 67% yield, after chromatographic purification (Scheme 1, (b)). Although it had been described that the use of O-(tert-butyl)-L-threonine as a catalyst in the Mannich reaction of 1 with a 4-nitrobenzaldehyde-derived imine gave improved anti:syn ratios (up to 8:1 dr, determined by NMR analysis of the crude reaction mixture), [28] both the easier availability of L-tryptophan and the instability of the Mannich adduct 3b (that precludes its careful chromatographic purification) spurred us on to optimize the anti-stereoselectivity of the L-Trp-catalyzed process.
Nine new chiral Schiff-base ligands (2a-2i, 3) were prepared from (R)-(+)-2-amino-2′-hydroxy-6, 6′-dimethyl-1, 1′-biphenyl (1a ), (R)-(+)-2-amino-2′-hydroxy-4, 4′, 6, 6′-tetramethyl-1, 1′-biphenyl (1b) and substituted salicylaldehydes. The structures of these Schiff-base ligands were characterized with ~1H NMR, ~(13)C NMR and high resolution mass spectroscopy (HR-MS). The asymmetric hetero-ene reaction between 2-methoxypropene and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde catalyzed by Ti(O~iPr)_4/2g complex was carried out at -10 ℃ for 3 h, up to 79 % ee of product was obtained.
Initial-rate measurements and stopped-flow spectrophotometric experiments over a wide range of pH implicate an enzyme group of pKa approximately 6.6 affecting the aldehyde binding reactions. It is possible, though not proved, that the group involved is the cysteine residue involved in catalysis. Stopped-flow fluorescence studies show that a group of pKa greater than 8.5 facilitates hydrolysis of the NADH-containing acyl-enzyme species. The identity of this group is quite unknown. Studies with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde show that this substrate gives marked substrate inhibition at quite low (less than 20 microM) concentrations. The mechanism of catalysis seems to be the same as for propionaldehyde oxidation. It is argued that proton release occurs with both substrates on hydrolysis of the NADH-containing acyl-enzyme and not before hydride transfer, as has been previously suggested [Bennett, Buckley & Blackwell (1982) Biochemistry 21, 4407-4413].
The activity of gelatin and collagen proteins towards C-C bond formation via Henry (nitroaldol) reaction between aldehydes and nitroalkanes is demonstrated for the first time. Among other variables, protein source, physical state and chemical modification influence product yield and kinetics, affording the nitroaldol products in both aqueous and organic media under mild conditions. Significantly, the scale-up of the process between 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and nitromethane is successfully achieved at 1 g scale and in good yield. A comparative kinetic study with other biocatalysts shows an increase of the first-order rate constant in the order chitosan < gelatin < bovine serum albumin (BSA) < collagen. The results of this study indicate that simple edible gelatin can promote C-C bond forming reactions under physiological conditions, which may have important implications from a metabolic perspective.
The reusability of methylaminopropyl active sites grafted on mesoporous amorphous silica, either with cooperative silanol groups or trimethylsilated, was assessed in the aldol reaction of acetone with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde. Raman, C-13 NMR, and UV-Vis spectroscopy demonstrated the presence of stable enamines on the spent catalysts. These enamines are produced as a side product from iminium intermediates in the catalytic cycle. Water co-feeding enhances the desorption of the iminium intermediates and, hence, suppresses the formation of these stable enamine species. The reusability of the cooperative catalyst increased to 70% with co-feeding 0.69 wt% water, while an almost complete reusability was achieved for the trimethylsilated catalyst. Continuous-flow experimentation showed that the cooperative effect of the silanol groups was lost during the first 7 h on-stream, yet activity losses continued, most likely due to silica hydrolysis. Activity losses persisted on the more hydrophobic trimethylsilated catalyst, but were significantly less pronounced.
The reusability of methylaminopropyl active sites grafted on mesoporous amorphous silica, either with cooperative silanol groups or trimethylsilated, was assessed in the aldol reaction of acetone with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde. Raman,
The idea for using amines in aldol reaction reactions originates from natural aldolase enzymes, which catalyze aldol reactions via an enamine-type mechanism [42] . List et al. [43] employed the amino acid L-proline as a homogeneous catalyst in the aldol reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with acetone in dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO). They proposed a cooperative effect between the acidic carboxylate and the basic amine: the acid function promotes the nucleophilic attack of the basic amine on this carbonyl group, and assists in proton-transfers [43] . A heterogeneous amine catalyst can be synthesized by functionalizing aminosilanes on silica [19] [20] [21] [22] [23] [24] [25] [26] [27] [28] [29] [30] [31] [32] [33] [34] [35] 44] . The weakly acidic silanol groups, which are intrinsically present at the silica surface, act as the cooperative partner in the reaction mechanism, equivalent to the cooperative effect of the carboxyl group in L-proline [28, 37] . Secondary amines are preferred, since primary amines allow the formation of a stable inhibiting imine species, and tertiary amines do not allow the formation of the crucial enamine intermediate [22, 23] . However, care should be taken that the substituent on the secondary amine is not too large, in order to minimize steric hindrance when approaching the nitrogen lone electron pair [24] . It has been shown that a methyl substituted secondary amine with a propane linker on a mesoporous amorphous silica is an efficient catalyst for the aldol reaction when silanol groups are neighboring the amine [25] [26] [27] . Previously it was found that, when the amines are grafted randomly on the surface, at least 1.7 of these silanol groups are required per amine function to assure full promotion [29] . Increasing the acid strength of the promoting acid function has been observed to decrease the catalytic activity [30] [31] [32] [33] . This can be explained by an unfavorable shift in the equilibrium of the free acid base couple to the neutralized one [30] . Hence, currently the most active aminated mesoporous amorphous silica catalyst for aldol reactions is a secondary amine, with a small substituent such as a methyl group, promoted by an excess of silanol groups.
Understanding the ability of biopolymers to promote selective C–C bond formation could provide important insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying evolution, and could help in the design of safer and “greener” catalysts in the future. This work describes the preparation of metal ion-crosslinked alginate materials and the evaluation of their potential catalytic activity towards the Henry (nitroaldol) reaction between a variety of aldehydes and nitroalkanes. The results demonstrated broad substrate specificity and a remarkable influence of the solvent nature, metal ion, and physical state of the alginate-based catalysts. In this sense, Ca2+–alginate hydrogel beads in DMSO used as a heterogeneous and recyclable catalyst were found to be the most efficient system, although the reaction could also proceed in an aqueous medium. Moreover, both small and large-scale model reactions between 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and nitromethane were performed successfully at room temperature. The possibility of coupling the reaction with an enzymatic resolution of the so-obtained β-nitroalcohol products was also assessed. All materials were characterized using different techniques including, among others, FT-IR, TGA, ICP-OES, and FE-SEM.
Amino acids and supported amines that are promoted by surface silanol groups have frequently been used as ::: catalysts for aldol condensation reactions1-3. The reaction, among other steps, involves a nucleophilic attack of ::: the lone electron pair of the amine nitrogen atom on the carbon atom of the carbonyl function and, hence, ::: strongly depends on the nucleophilicity of the employed amine. Barbas and co-workers1, 2 were the first to ::: experimentally screen amino acids for catalyzing the asymmetric aldol condensation of acetone with ::: 4-nitrobenzaldehyde. They concluded that acyclic secondary amino acids do not catalyze the reaction. However, ::: Kitayama et al.4 have shown that homogeneous propylamine, and heterogeneously supported propyl amine, do ::: catalyze the aldol condensation reaction. It is thus not yet clear which acyclic secondary amines actually catalyze ::: the reactions, and which do not. Later on, Lauwaert et al.5 demonstrated how steric effects induced by the ::: substituents on the secondary acyclic amines are of crucial importance to reach appreciable catalytic activity. ::: There is, hence, a need for an activity descriptor that accurately predicts the activity of the amine active site by ::: not only considering the pure basicity, but also by taking steric effects into account. This descriptor can then be ::: used to rationally design novel amine based catalysts. ::: Since a proton has a minimal steric requirement, the Bronsted basicity is a poor activity descriptor for reactions ::: that start with a nucleophilic attack of the amine. Hence, in this work we propose a methodology for ::: computationally probing the activity of amine active sites that also accounts for steric interactions. After ::: validation of the computational strategy against literature data on homogeneous amino acid catalysts, and ::: heterogeneously supported amines, it is used to design new active sites for the amine catalyzed aldol ::: condensation.
Six new photosensitive and optically active poly(amide-imide)s 8a–8f with good inherent viscosities based on dibenzalacetone moiety were synthesized from the direct polycondensation reaction of N-Trimellitylimido-L-amino acids 3a–3f with 2,5-bis(4-aminobenzylidene)cyclopentanone 7 by two different methods such as direct polycondensation in a medium consisting of N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone/triphenyl phosphite/calcium chloride/pyridine and direct polycondensation in a tosyl chloride/pyridine (py)/N,N-dimethylformamide system. Diamine 7 was synthesized by using a two-step reaction. At first 2,5-bis(4-nitrobenzylidene)cyclopentanone 6 was prepared from the reaction of two equimolars 4-nitrobenzaldehyde 5 and one equimolar cyclopentanone 4 and dinitro compound 6 was reduced by using Na2S. Also N-trimellitylimido-L-amino acids 3a–3f were synthesized by the condensation reaction of trimellitic anhydride 1 with two equimolars of various L-amino acids 2a–2f in an acetic acid solution. The polymerization reactions produced a series of photosensitive and optically active poly(amide-imide)s with high yield and good inherent viscosity. The resulted polymers were fully characterized by means of FTIR and 1H-NMR spectroscopy, elemental analyses, inherent viscosity, specific rotation, solubility tests, UV-VIS spectroscopy, differential scanning calorimeter, thermogravimetric analysis, and derivative of thermogravimetric. These macromolecules exhibited maximum UV-VIS absorption at around 395 and 265 nm in a N,N-dimethylformamide solution.
Abstract Lanthanide complexes of Eu(III), Gd(III), Nd(III), Sm(III), and Tb(III) with the Schiff base derived from glycylglycine and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde were synthesized and characterized by elemental analysis, mass, IR, electronic spectra, molar conductance, TGA, and powder XRD. The results show that the Schiff base ligand acts as a tridentate monobasic donor coordinating through the azomethine nitrogen, deprotonated peptide nitrogen, and carboxylato oxygen atoms. Thermal decomposition profiles are consistent with the proposed formulations. The powder XRD studies show that all the complexes are amorphous in nature. Antimicrobial studies indicate that these complexes exhibit more activity than the ligand itself. The DNA cleavage activity of the ligand and its complexes were assayed on Escherichia coli DNA using gel electrophoresis in the presence of H 2 O 2 . The result shows that the Eu(III) and Nd(III) complexes have completely cleaved the DNA. The anticancer activities of the complexes have also been studied towards human cervical cancer cell line (HeLa) and Colon Cancer Cells (HCT116) and it was found that the Eu(III) and Nd(III) complexes were more active than the corresponding Gd(III), Sm(III), Tb(III) complexes and the free ligand on both the cancer cells.
An interaction of carbonyl compounds (isatins, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde) with azomethine imines generated by the diaziridine ring opening in 6-aryl-1,5-diazabicyclo[3.1.0]hexanes in the presence of BF 3 ·Et 2 O as a catalyst induced the metathesis to other azomethine imines with the elimination of aldehydes ArCHO. New azomethine imines were trapped with diethyl acetylenedicarboxylate, otherwise they transformed to the corresponding pyrazolines due to a 1,4-H shift.
Abstract This work describes the catalytic activity of several oxo-rhenium complexes containing the heterocyclic ligands 2-(2-hydroxy-5-methylphenyl)benzotriazole (Hhmpbta), 2-(2-hydroxyphenyl)benzothiazole (Hhpbt), 2-(2-hydroxyphenyl)benzoxazole (Hhpbo), 2-(2-hydroxyphenyl)-1 H -benzimidazole (Hhpbi), isoquinoline-1-carboxylic acid (iqcH), and 4-methoxy-2-quinolinecarboxylic acid (mqcH) in the reduction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde using phenylsilane as reducing agent. In general, all of the catalysts tested gave good to excellent yields of the 4-nitrobenzyl alcohol. Although, the best result was obtained with the catalytic system PhSiH 3 /[ReOBr 2 (hmpbta)(PPh 3 )] (5 mol %). This system was also applied to the reduction of a large variety of aldehydes, producing the corresponding primary alcohols in good to excellent yields and good chemoselectivity.
Understanding the ability of biopolymers to promote selective C-C bond formation could provide important insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying evolution, and could help in the design of safer and ''greener'' catalysts in the future. This work describes the preparation of metal ion-crosslinked alginate materials and the evaluation of their potential catalytic activity towards the Henry (nitroaldol) reaction between a variety of aldehydes and nitroalkanes. The results demonstrated broad substrate specificity and a remarkable influence of the solvent nature, metal ion, and physical state of the alginate-based catalysts. In this sense, Ca 2+ -alginate hydrogel beads in DMSO used as a heterogeneous and recyclable catalyst were found to be the most efficient system, although the reaction could also proceed in an aqueous medium. Moreover, both small and large-scale model reactions between 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and nitromethane were performed successfully at room temperature. The possibility of coupling the reaction with an enzymatic resolution of the so-obtained b-nitroalcohol products was also assessed. All materials were characterized using different techniques including, among others, FT-IR, TGA, ICP-OES, and FE-SEM.
(TOPO, 90 %), 1-octadecene, tech. (90%, ODE), Oleylamine, tech. (70%), zinc acetate (99.99%), sulfur powder (99.98%), (±)-α-lipoic acid, tellurium shot (99.999 %), sodium borohydride (99%, NaBH 4 ), dimedone (95%), 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (98%), ammonium acetate (98%), dicyclohexylcarbodiimide (99%, DCC) were purchased from Aldrich. Calcium chloride anhydrous (CaCl 2 ) was purchased from Daejung Chemicals. Zinc powder was purchased from Shinyo Pure Chemicals. Cadmium acetate dihydrates (99.999%), and selenium shots (99.99%) were purchased from Alfa Aesar and Strem, respectively.
The effects of Au particle size and support properties have been examined in the gas-phase hydrogenation of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde over Au/ZrO2, Au/TiO2 and Au/Al2O3. Gold particle size was varied using deposition–precipitation and impregnation syntheses. The catalysts have been characterised in terms of BET area/pore volume, temperature-programmed reduction (TPR), XRD, H2 chemisorption/TPD, TEM, XPS, and pyridine adsorption FTIR measurements. Reaction exclusivity to 4-aminobenzaldehyde was achieved over Au/ZrO2 and Au/TiO2 where a decrease in Au particle size (mean from 7.0 to 4.7 nm) generated a higher turnover frequency. Pyridine adsorption coupled with FTIR analysis has revealed stronger Lewis acidity associated with Au/Al2O3, which contributes to CO reduction via the formation of a benzoate intermediate. Selectivity to the alcohol is sensitive to Au size and reaction temperature with 100% 4-nitrobenzyl alcohol selectivity over Au/Al2O3 (mean Au size = 7.8 nm) at 423–443 K. Our results demonstrate the viability of controlling selective NO2 and CO reduction using oxide-supported Au catalysts.
The application of deep eutectic solvents has been demonstrated for the first time in promiscuous lipase-catalysed aldol reactions. The model reaction between 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and acetone was examined in depth, with excellent compatibility being found between porcine pancreas lipase and choline chloride/glycerol mixtures for the formation of the aldol product in high yields. The system was compatible with a series of aromatic aldehydes and ketones including acetone, cyclopentanone and cyclohexanone. In some cases, the corresponding α,β-unsaturated carbonyl compounds were found as minor products. Control experiments demonstrate that the enzymatic preparation was also responsible for a collateral dehydration reaction once the aldol product is formed.
Abstract A 30,000 MW, barbiturate sensitive TPNH-linked aldehyde reductase which reduces aromatic aldehydes (3-pyridinecarboxaldehyde, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, 4-cyanobenzaldehyde), d -glyceraldehyde, d -glucuronate and (+)-camphorquinone was found in liver, kidney, brain and heart tissue from a variety of animals. In livers, rabbit kidney, rabbit heart, and bovine brain a high molecular weight reductase was also found, which was less sensitive to barbiturate inhibition and had higher reactivity for cyclohexanone and d -ribose. The low molecular weight, TPNH-linked aldehyde reductases are probably homologous and should be classified under the systematic name alcohol:NADP oxidoreductase (EC 1.1.1.2). Since the substrate specificity of aldehyde reductase overlaps several previously described TPNH-linked reductases from the same tissues, reexamination of the properties of these enzymes for reclassification as EC 1.1.1.2 is necessary.
1) Semicarbazones and guanylhydrazones of 4-nitrocinnamaldehyde, 4-nitrobenzalacetone, α-bromo-4-nitrocinnamaldehyde, and 1-(4-nitrophenyl)-2-bromo-1-buten-3-one, nitromethane derivatives of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, 4-nitrocinnamaldehyde, and α-bromo-4-nitrocinnamaldehyde, and thiosemicarbazones of 4-amino, 4-acetamido-, and 4-nitroacetophen-ones were prepared for evaluation of their antibacterial activity. 2) Condensation of the acetophenones with thiosemicarbazide was found to proceed smoothly at pH 3.2 but not at pH 7.
Abstract Introduction of carbohydrate auxiliary into enanine-based catalyst provided a novel enantiocontrol for aqueous aldol reaction. Methyl 2-( l -prolyl)amido-2-deoxy-α- d -glucopyranosides led to the enantiocontrol as parent amino acids did in the reaction of acetone with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, and provided R -aldol in an improved efficiency compared with that of l -proline in aqueous media. The enantioreversal control of that with parent amino acid was observed in the reaction with methyl 2-( l - tert -leucyloxy)-α- d -glucopyranoside, which provided S -aldol predominantly in moderate efficiency. The novel enantiocontrol system was proposed to occur as a result of the generation of the transition state through the reaction of enamine with hydroxyl group on glucoside auxiliary.
Aldehydes from primary alcohols by oxidation with chromium trioxide: heptanal ::: ::: ::: ::: intermediate: dipyridine chromium(VI) oxide ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: reactant: 5.8 g. (0.050 mole) of 1-heptanol ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: product: heptanal ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: product: 2-methoxybenzaldehyde ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: product: 4-nitrobenzaldehyde ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: Keywords: ::: ::: oxidation, CH2OH CHO; ::: dichloromethane (methylene chloride); ::: dipyridine chromium (VI) oxide; ::: chromium trioxide, mixing with pyridine; ::: pyridine, poison
The applicability of deep eutectic solvents has been demonstrated for the first time in promiscuous lipase-catalysed aldol reactions. The model reaction between 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and acetone was examined in depth, an excellent compatibility being found between porcine pancreas lipase and choline chloride: glycerol mixtures for the formation of the aldol product in high yields. The system was compatible with a series of aromatic aldehydes and ketones including acetone, cyclopentanone and cyclohexanone. In some cases the corresponding ,β-unsaturated carbonyl compounds were found as minor products. Control experiments demonstrate that the enzymatic preparation was also responsible of the collateral dehydration reaction once the aldol product is formed.
Abstract A yellow laccase from the culture filtrate of Trametes hirsuta MTCC-1171 has been purified. The purification methods involved concentration of the culture filtrate by ammonium sulphate precipitation and an anion exchange chromatography on diethylaminoethyl cellulose. The sodium dodecyl sulphate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis gave single protein band indicating that the enzyme preparation was pure. The molecular mass of the enzyme determined from SDS-PAGE analysis was 55.0 kDa. Using 2,6-dimethoxyphenol, 2,2′[azino-bis-(3-ethylbonzthiazoline-6-sulphonic acid) diammonium salt] and 3,5-dimethoxy-4-hydroxybenzaldehyde azine as the substrates, the K m , k cat and k cat / K m values of the laccase were found to be 420 μM, 13.04 s −1 , 3.11 × 10 4 M −1 s −1 , 225 μM, 13.03 s −1 , 1.3 × 10 5 M −1 s −1 and 100 μM, 13.04 s −1 , 5.8 × 10 4 M −1 s −1 , respectively. The pH and temperature optima were 4.5 and 60 °C, respectively while pH and temperature stabilities were pH 4.5 and 50 °C. The activation energy for thermal denaturation of the enzyme was 18.6 kJ/mol/K. The purified laccase has yellow colour and does not show absorption band around 610 nm like blue laccases. The purified laccase transforms toluene, 3-nitrotoluene, 4-nitrotoluene, 3-chlorotoluene, 4-chlorotoluene and 3,4-dimethoxytoluene to benzaldehyde, 3-nitrobenzaldehyde, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, 3-chlorobenzaldehyde, 4-chlorobenzaldehyde and 3,4-dimethoxybenzaldehyde in the absence of mediator molecules in high yields.
Chiral salalen ligands derived from (S)-proline and derivatives of salicyaldehydes were synthesized, and their in-situ generated Cu (II) complexes were evaluated in the asymmetric Henry reaction. Salalen ligand of different substituents on the phenyl moiety showed remarkable effect on the enantioselectivity of nitro-aldol product of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and nitromethane. Cu (II) complex generated in situ with (S)-2-(tert-butyl)-6-((2-(((2-hydroxy-3-methylbenzylidene)amino)methyl)pyrrolidin-1-yl)methyl) phenol (10 mol%) and Cu (OAc)2 .H2 O (10 mol%), found to be better catalyst for nitro-aldol reaction between 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and nitromethane, gave corresponding product in 85% yield and 88% enantiomeric excess (ee) in isopropanol at 35°C after 40 hours. The catalyst also used for the Henry reaction with different substituted benzaldehydes and corresponding products were obtained in 22% to 99% yields with 66% to 92% ee. Henry reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and prochiral nitroethane gave anti-selective product (dr = 79/21; anti/syn) in a 91% yield with 80% ee.
The title compound, C 14 H 8 N 4 O 6 , a new 1,2,5-oxadiazole Noxide derivative, was formed by dimerization of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde oxime. The compound crystallizes with two independent molecules per asymmetric unit. The N-oxide O atom is disordered over two sites in each molecule; site occupancy factors are 0.57/0.43 and 0.5/0.5. The mean planes through the two benzene rings are inclined to the planar 1,2,3-oxadiazole ring by 25.03 (11) and 41.64 (11) in one molecule, and 22.58 (11) and 42.66 (11) in the other molecule, the smaller angle being for the ring on the oxide side of the oxadiazole ring in each case. In the crystal structure, the individual molecules form centrosymmetric dimers linked via C-HÁ Á ÁO hydrogen bonds. The dimers of one molecule are then linked to those of the other molecule via C-HÁ Á ÁO hydrogen bonds, forming a three-dimensional network. 
Three ligands, namely 4-nitrobenzaldehyde-[N(4)-methyl, N(4)-phenyl thiosemicarbazone] (HL1), fluoren-9-one-[N(4)-(4-methylpiperidinyl)thiosemicarbazone] (HL2), and 4’-hydroxyacetophenone-[N(4)-(4-methylpiperidinyl)thiosemicarbazone] (HL3) as well as three corresponding Pt(II) complexes ([Pt(Li) 2 ](i = 1;2;3)), were synthesized and fully characterized. The analysis of IR, UV-vis, MS, 1 H-NMR, 13 C-NMR, COSY, and HSQC illustrated that HL1, HL2, HL3 were bidentate ligands and bound to the metal through the imine nitrogen and the net negatively charged sulfur in thiol form. Furthermore, it was demonstrated that the chelating ligands in the Pt(II) complexes were in the trans configuration. Keywords. Thiosemicarbazone, platinum(II) complexes, coordination compounds, inorganic synthesis.
Objective: Marek's disease (MD) is a widespread, herpesvirus-induced neoplastic disease in the domestic chicken that is caused by Marek's disease virus (MDV). Marek’s disease virus (MDV) belongs to the alphaherpesvirus family such as Herpes simplex viruses 1 and 2 (HSV-1 and HSV-2). Recently Bag and co-workers 2014 reported that, 7-methoxy-1-methyl-4, 9-dihydro-3H-pyrido [3, 4-b]indole (Harmaline) showed potent anti-HSV1 activity against both wild type and clinical isolates of HSV-1. The present work aimed to synthesize some new heterocyclic systems incorporated to indole moiety starting from ethyl 2-(3-acetyl-1H-indol-1-yl)acetate (1) in order to evaluate their antiviral activity in a trail to explore potential antiviral agents against MDV to limit the disease course and losses. Methods: Reaction of ethyl 2-(3-acetyl-1H-indol-1-yl) acetate (1) with semicarbazide hydrochloride yielded semicarbazone derivative 2. The oxidative cyclization of 2 using thionyl chloride and selenium dioxide afforded 1, 2, 3-thia and 1, 2, 3-selenadiazole derivatives 3 and 4, respectively. On the other hand, reaction of 1 with 4-chloro and 4-nitrobenzaldehydes under Claisen-Schmidt conditions gave α, β-unsaturated keto derivatives 5a, b. Cyclization of 5a, b using hydrazine hydrate, phenyl hydrazine, urea, thiourea or guanidine led to the formation of pyrazoles 6a, b, 7a, b, and pyrimidines derivatives 8a, b-10a, b; respectively. Condensation of 1 with phenyl hydrazine followed by Vilsmeier Haack formylation gave pyrazole4-carboxaldehyde derivative 12. Reaction of aldehydic function group of 12 with different reagents led to the formation of pyrazol-5-ones 14-16, thiazolidinone 18, aziditine 19, 1, 6-diaminopyridine 21, triazolo(1, 5-a)pyridine 22 and pyrano(2, 3-c) pyrazole derivatives 23. The in vitro antiviral activity of the selected compounds 6a, b 7a, b 8a, b 9a, b and 10a, b was studied against Marek's disease virus (MDV). Results: Chicken embryo experiment showed that compounds 7b, 8b, 9b and 10a possessed significant antiviral activity with IC50 ranged between 5 and 6 µg/ml and substantial therapeutic indices (TI) of 80 and 83 were recorded. Cytotoxicity assay indicated that CC50 of 7b, 8b, 9b and 10 were greater than 400 and 500 mg/ml. Conclusion: Compounds 7b, 8b, 9b and 10a showed promising effect as anti-MDV infectivity application.
The condensation reaction of 5-(4-aminophenyl)-N-aryl-1,3,4-thiadiazol-2-ylamines with salicylaldehyde, 3-hydroxybenzaldehyde, 4-hydroxybenzaldehyde, 5-bromosalicylaldehyde, 5-chlorosalicylaldehyde, 4-methoxybenzaldehyde, 3-nitrobenzaldehyde, and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde results in series of new Schiff bases. The synthesized compounds were tested for their antimicrobial efficiency against Mycobacterium smegmatis PTCC 1307 in vitro. All compounds showed significant antiproliferative activity against M. smegmatis.
A gas-chromatographic procedure for the determination of 1,1-dimethylhydrazine in water was developed on the basis of its reaction with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde yielding the corresponding hydrazone, the extraction of the latter from water with an organic solvent, its subsequent preconcentration by evaporation, and the determination on a gas chromatograph with a nitrogen-phosphorus detector. The determination limit of 1,1-dimethylhydrazine is 0.03 μg/L. The relative error of the determination is no larger than 22% in the concentration range 0.06–0.60 μg/L and 33% at a level of 0.03 μg/L.
Several proteases, especially pepsin, were observed to directly catalyze asymmetric aldol reactions. Pepsin, which displays well-documented proteolytic activity under acidic conditions, exhibited distinct catalytic activity in a crossed aldol reaction between acetone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with high yield and moderate enantioselectivity. Fluorescence experiments indicated that under neutral pH conditions, pepsin maintains its native conformation and that the natural structure plays an important role in biocatalytic promiscuity. Moreover, no significant loss of enantioselectivity was found even after four cycles of catalyst recycling, showing the high stability of pepsin under the selected aqueous reaction conditions. This case of biocatalytic promiscuity not only expands the application of proteases to new chemical transformations, but also could be developed into a potentially valuable method for green organic synthesis.
A three-component condensation of 3-benzoylquinoxalin-2(1H)-one with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and ammonium acetate in AcOH gives 2-[2-(4-nitrophenyl)-5-phenylimidazol-4-yl]benzimidazole via a rearrangement involving the fragment C(2)-C(3)-C(O)Ph of the quinoxaline system and the other two reagents, which supply the fragment -N=C(Ar)-NH- for constructing the imidazole ring. Possible pathways of this reaction are discussed.
Abstract Thiosemicarbazones are an important class of compounds that have been extensively studied in recent years, mainly because of their broad profile of pharmacological activity. A new 4-nitrobenzaldehyde thiosemicarbazone compound (BZTS) that was derived from S-limonene has been demonstrated to have significant antiprotozoan activity. However, the hydrophobic characteristic of BZTS limits its administration and results in low oral bioavailability. In the present study, we proposed the synthesis of nanoparticle-based block copolymers that can encapsulate BZTS, with morphological evaluation of the nanoparticle suspensions being performed by transmission and cryo-transmission electronic microscopy. The mean particle sizes of the nanoparticle suspensions were determined by static light and dynamic light scattering (SLS/DLS), and the hydrodynamic radius (Rh) was determined using the Stokes-Einstein equation. The zeta potential (ζ) and polydispersity index (PDI) were also determined. The entrapment encapsulation efficiency of the BZTS nanoparticles was measured by ultraviolet spectrophotometry. In vitro activity of BZTS nanoparticle suspensions against intracellular amastigotes of Leishmania amazonensis and cytotoxic activity were also evaluated. The results showed the production of spherical nanoparticles with varied sizes depending on the hydrophobic portion of the amphiphilic diblock copolymers used. Significant concentration-dependent inhibitory activity against intracellular amastigotes was observed, and low cytotoxic activity was demonstrated against macrophages.
A new terpenoid-like bischalcone (1E,4E)-1-(4-nitrophenyl)-5-(2,6,6-trimethylcyclohex-1-enyl)-penta-1,4-dien-3-one was synthesized from a β-ionone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde by Claisen-Schmidt condensation reaction and its structure was determined by single crystal X-ray diffraction analysis. Additionally, this compound was featured by powder X-ray diffraction, 1H, 13C NMR and IR spectroscopy techniques. The molecule in the asymmetric unit showed disordered occupancy sites over two positions for the trimethylcyclohexene atoms. These two conformations were related by a rotation of about 180° around the axis of the C-C bond linking the six-membered ring and the olefin carbons. Single-molecule calculations using the DFT method have strengthened this structural finding, since our theoretical approaches also suggest two well-defined conformations of similar energies which resemble the molecular geometries determined by X-ray diffraction. Furthermore, the inspection of the crystal packing revealed that the hydrogen bonding patterns are different for each conformation of the compound reported here.
Abstract A common strategy for the synthesis of (−)-chloramphenicol and (+)-thiamphenicol is described. These antibiotics have been synthesized from commercially available 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and 4-(methylthio)benzaldehyde in three and four steps, respectively.
Aldehydes from acid chlorides by modified Rosenmund reduction: 3,4,5-trimethoxybenzaldehyde ::: ::: ::: ::: product: 3,4,5-trimethoxybenzaldehyde ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: product: 3,4-dimethylbenzaldehyde ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: product: 3-benzyloxy-4,5-dimethoxybenzaldehyde ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: product: 3-methoxy-4-nitrobenzaldehyde ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: Keywords: ::: ::: reduction, CX CH; ::: 3,4,5-trimethoxybenzoyl chloride; ::: palladium catalysts, pyrophoric; ::: autoclaves and pressure reactors, autoclave
Complexes [RuCl(H4NO(2)Fo4M)(bipy)(dppb)]PF(6) (1), [RuCl(H4NO(2)Fo4M)(Mebipy)(dppb)]PF(6) (2), [RuCl(H4NO(2)Fo4M)(phen)(dppb)]PF(6) (3), [RuCl(H4NO(2)Ac4M)(bipy)(dppb)]PF(6) (4), [RuCl(H4NO(2)Ac4M)(Mebipy)(dppb)]PF(6) (5) and [RuCl(H4NO(2)Ac4M)(phen)(dppb)]PF(6) (6) with N(4)-methyl-4-nitrobenzaldehyde thiosemicarbazone (H4NO(2)Fo4M) and N(4)-methyl-4-nitroacetophenone thiosemicarbazone (H4NO(2)Ac4M) were obtained from [RuCl(2)(bipy)(dppb)], [RuCl(2)(Mebipy)(dppb)], and [RuCl(2)(phen)(dppb)], (dppb = 1,4-bis(diphenylphospine)butane; bipy = 2,2'-bipyridine; Mebipy = 4,4'-dimethyl-2,2'-bipyridine; phen = 1,10-phenanthroline). In all cases the thiosemicarbazone is attached to the metal center through the sulfur atom. Complexes (1-6), together with the corresponding ligands and the Ru precursors were evaluated for their ability to in vitro suppress the growth of Trypanosoma cruzi. All complexes were more active than their corresponding ligands and precursors. Complexes (1-3) and (5) revealed to be the most active among all studied compounds with ID(50) = 0.6-0.8 microM. In all cases the association of the thiosemicarbazone with ruthenium, dppb and bipyridine or phenanthroline in one same complex proved to be an excellent strategy for activity improvement.
Abstract Condensation of some aromatic aldehydes with dimethyl sulfone using sodium amide has been studied. Majority of the aldehydes afforded cis-2,6-diaryl-1,4-oxathian-4,4-dioxides as the exclusive product. 4-Methoxybenzaldehyde, in addition, provided the bis α,β-unsaturated sulfone as the major product while 4-nitrobenzaldehyde yielded only the Tischenko product by self-condensation. The products have been characterised by elemental analysis and spectral data.
The site time yield (STY) and stability of the primary amine sites in low molecular weight chitosan have been quantified for the aldol reaction of acetone with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde in a mixture of water and acetone as a solvent. Crude chitosan with varying degrees of deacetylation (DDA), as well as chitosan in hydrogel and aerogel forms, was used. Apart from the main reaction, accumulation of an imine formed from 4-nitrobenzaldehyde occurred in the early stages of the reaction. This imine acted as an inhibitor of the primary amine sites and was formed until an equilibrium was reached, after which the catalytic activity remained constant. Chitosan with a DDA amounting to 70.4% exhibited a STY of 2.18 ± 0.05 × 10−5 molproduct molamine−1 s−1. This STY increased with decreasing DDA, as a direct result of an increase in amine pKa. No differences in activity were observed between the crude, hydrogel, and aerogel forms of chitosan with the same DDA. Recycling in a second batch experiment allowed reproducing the same performance as that in the first experiment. Under continuous-flow conditions, the activity of chitosan was found to stabilize as a function of the time on stream, after the imine formation has equilibrated. Even though the catalytic activity of these chitosan catalysts was found to be lower than those of the current state-of-the-art catalysts for the aldol reaction, their stability in an aqueous environment opens new perspectives for future catalyst development.
The condensation reaction of 5-(4-aminophenyl)-4-phenyl-1,2,4-triazole-3-thione with salicylaldehyde, 4-hydroxybenzaldehyde, 5-chlorosalicylaldehyde, 5-bromosalicylaldehyde, 2-nitrobenzaldehyde, 3-nitrobenzaldehyde, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and 4-methoxybenzaldehyde in methanol results in series of new Schiff bases. The structure of Schiff bases were confirmed by (1)H NMR, (13)C NMR, IR and mass spectroscopy. The synthesized compounds were tested for their antimicrobial activity against bacterial (Gram negative and Gram positive) strains in-vitro. The synthetic compounds showed different inhibition zones against tested bacterial strains. All compounds showed significant antiproliferative activity against Acinetobacter calcoaceticus ATCC 23055. In detail, Entrococcus faecalis (Gram positive) was resistant to all prepared compounds, whereas, A. calcoaceticus (Gram negative) was sensitive to all compounds especially 5c, 5d and 4. S. aureus (Gram positive, relatively resistant to antimicrobials) showed limited sensitivity to only 5c and 5d, and it was resistant to all other compounds and only 5c exhibited low activity against P. aeruginosa (Gram negative). The best results belonged to 5c that showed high activity against A. calcoaceticus (33 mm) as well as S. aureus (20 mm).
The catalytic and inhibitory profiles of xylose reductase isolated from the yeast Pachysolen tannophilus (PTXR) are compared to those of aldose reductase (AR) obtained from rat lens. While both PTXR and rat lens AR are NADPH-specific enzymes and have an affinity for a variety of substrates such as D-xylose, D,L-glyceraldehyde, and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, the enzymes differ in their substrate affinity profiles. Also, PTXR is not inhibited by standard inhibitors of AR thus supporting a hypothesis that this enzyme may not possess the inhibitor binding site found in rat lens AR.
The reactions of tetrathiacalix[4]arene functionalised by acetylhydrazide groups with an excess of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde or tetrathiacalix[4]arene functionalised by chlorocarbonylmethoxy groups with an excess of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde hydrazone lead to the preferable formation of tetrathiacalix[4]arene with an additional N,N’ -diacetylhydrazine bridge, but in the case of pyridine-2-carboxaldehyde, only to the formation of tetrathiacalix[4]arene functionalised by four acetylhydrazone fragments.
Abstract Selective bioconversion of the aromatic methyl group to its aldehyde group is one of the best applications of the laccases. In the present communication, crude laccase, obtained from the liquid culture medium of the fungal strain Pleurotus ostreatus MTCC-1801, has been used for the selective bioconversion of toluene, 3-nitrotoluene, 4-nitrotoluene, 2-fluorotoluene, 4-fluorotoluene, 2-chlorotoluene, 3-chlorotoluene, 4-chlorotoluene, and 3,4-dimethoxytoluene to benzaldehyde, 3-nitrobenzaldehyde, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, 2-fluorobenzaldehyde, 4-fluorobenzaldehyde, 2-chlorobenzaldehyde, 3-chlorobenzaldehyde, 4-chlorobenzaldehyde, and 3,4-dimethoxybenzaldehyde, respectively, in the presence of 2,2′-azino-bis (3-ethylbenzthiazoline-6-sulfonic acid) diammonium salt (ABTS) as a mediator molecule. Time taken by these conversions was 1–2 h, and average yield of products was more than 93%.
Abstract Two novel chiral thiophosphoramides and two chiral phosphoramidites were synthesized starting from (S)-α-phenylethylamine and (R)-(+) or (S)-(−)-1,1′-Bi-2-naphthol (BINOL), respectively, and their application in combination with Lewis acid as cocatalysts in asymmetric Morita–Baylis–Hillman (MBH) reaction was investigated. Dramatic rate acceleration (the corresponding adducts were obtained in fair to excellent chemical yield within 15 min–5 h) was observed in these chiral phosphorus reagents/Lewis acid cocatalyzed MBH reaction between 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and activated alkenes, and in one case, moderate enantioselectivity was achieved (the corresponding adduct's ee value is 44%).
The condensation reaction of 5-(4-aminophenyl)-4-phenyl-1,2,4-triazole-3-thione with salicylaldehyde, 4-hydroxybenzaldehyde, 5-chlorosalicylaldehyde, 5-bromosalicylaldehyde, 2-nitrobenzaldehyde, 3-nitrobenzaldehyde, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and 4-methoxybenzaldehyde in methanol results in series of new Schiff bases. The structure of Schiff bases were confirmed by 1 H NMR, 13 C NMR, IR and mass spectroscopy. The synthesized compounds were tested for their antimicrobial activity against bacterial (Gram negative and Gram positive) strains in-vitro. The synthetic compounds showed different inhibition zones against tested bacterial strains. All compounds showed significant antiproliferative activity against Acinetobacter calcoaceticus ATCC 23055. In detail, Entrococcus faecalis (Gram positive) was resistant to all prepared compounds, whereas, A. calcoaceticus (Gram negative) was sensitive to all compounds especially 5c, 5d and 4. S. aureus (Gram positive, relatively resistant to antimicrobials) showed limited sensitivity to only 5c and 5d, and it was resistant to all other compounds and only 5c exhibited low activity against P. aeruginosa (Gram negative). The best results belonged to 5c that showed high activity against A. calcoaceticus (33 mm) as well as S. aureus (20 mm).
Synthesis and Characterization of Porphyrin-Flavin Dyads (2-M, M = 2H, Zn, Pd). A precursor mononitroporphyrin (1-H2) was synthesized by condensation of meso- [3,5-di-(tertbutyl)phenyl]dipyrromethane with 3,5-di(tert-butyl)benzaldehyde and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde. [46, 47] A target free-base porphyrin-flavin linked dyad (H2Por-Fl, 2-H2) was prepared from 1-H2 via a fourstep synthesis that is a general synthetic route for flavin derivatives; [48] reduction of the nitro group, coupling with 2-bromonitrobenzene, reduction of the nitro group, and formation of the isoalloxazine ring (Scheme 1). Insertion of the Pd 2+ ion into the porphyrin core was made by the reaction of the mononitroporphyrin with Pd(OAc)2 in toluene. It should be noted that the Pd 2+ insertion should be done prior to the formation of the flavin skeleton to avoid the strong complexation of the Pd 2+ ion with the flavin moiety.
Complementary DNA clones encoding human aflatoxin B(1) aldehyde reductase (AKR7A2), aldehyde reductase (AKR1A1), aldose reductase (AKR1B1), dihydrodiol dehydrogenase 1 (AKR1C1) and chlordecone reductase (AKR1C4) have been expressed in Escherichia coli. These members of the aldo-keto reductase (AKR) superfamily have been purified from E. coli as recombinant proteins. The recently identified AKR7A2 was shown to differ from the AKR1 isoenzymes in being able to catalyse the reduction of 2-carboxybenzaldehyde. Also, AKR7A2 was found to exhibit a narrow substrate specificity, with activity being restricted to succinic semialdehyde (SSA), 2-nitrobenzaldehyde, pyridine-2-aldehyde, isatin, 1,2-naphthoquinone (1,2-NQ) and 9,10-phenanthrenequinone. In contrast, AKR1A1 reduces a broad spectrum of carbonyl-containing compounds, displaying highest specific activity for SSA, 4-carboxybenzaldehyde, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, pyridine-3-aldehyde, pyridine-4-aldehyde, 4-hydroxynonenal, phenylglyoxal, methylglyoxal, 2,3-hexanedione, 1, 2-NQ, 16-ketoestrone and d-glucuronic acid. Comparison between the kinetic properties of AKR7A2 and AKR1A1 showed that both recombinant enzymes exhibited roughly similar k(cat)/K(m) values for SSA, 1,2-NQ and 16-ketoestrone. Many of the compounds which are substrates for AKR1A1 also serve as substrates for AKR1B1, though the latter enzyme was shown to display a specific activity significantly less than that of AKR1A1 for most of the aromatic and aliphatic aldehydes studied. Neither AKR1C1 nor AKR1C4 was found to possess high reductase activity towards aliphatic aldehydes, aromatic aldehydes, aldoses or dicarbonyls. However, unlike AKR1A1 and AKR1B1, both AKR1C1 and AKR1C4 were able to catalyse the oxidation of 1-acenaphthenol and, in addition, AKR1C4 could oxidize di- and tri-hydroxylated bile acids. Specific antibodies raised against AKR7A2, AKR1A1, AKR1B1, AKR1C1 and AKR1C4 have been used to show the presence of all of the reductases in human hepatic cytosol; the levels of AKR1B1 and AKR1C1 were markedly elevated in livers with alcohol-associated injury, and indeed AKR1B1 was only detectable in livers with evidence of alcoholic liver disease. Western blotting of extracts from brain, heart, kidney, liver, lung, prostate, skeletal muscle, small intestine, spleen and testis showed that AKR7A2 is present in all of the organs examined, and AKR1B1 is similarly widely distributed in human tissues. These experiments revealed however, that the expression of AKR1A1 is restricted primarily to brain, kidney, liver and small intestine. The AKR1C family members proved not to be as widely expressed as the other reductases, with AKR1C1 being observed in only kidney, liver and testis, and AKR1C4 being found in liver alone. As human kidney is a rich source of AKR, the isoenzymes in this organ have been studied further. Anion-exchange chromatography of human renal cytosol on Q-Sepharose allowed resolution of AKR1A1, AKR1B1, AKR1C1 and AKR7A2, as identified by substrate specificity and Western blotting. Immunohistochemistry of human kidney demonstrated that AKR7A2 is expressed in a similar fashion to the AKR1 family members in proximal and distal convoluted renal tubules. Furthermore, both AKR7A2 and AKR1 members were expressed in renal carcinoma cells, suggesting that these groups of isoenzymes may be engaged in related physiological functions.
The 4-trimethylsilyl- and 4-tributylstannylbut-2-enyl(tributyl)stannanes 3 and 4 have been prepared by treatment of the allylic sulfones 6 and 7 with tributyltin hydride under free-radical conditions and shown to react under non-catalysed and Lewis acid promoted conditions with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde to give the anti- and syn-products 9/11 and 8/10, respectively, with reasonable levels of stereoselectivity. The 2-arylsulfinylpropenylstannanes 17 and 18 were also prepared from the sulfones 15 and 16, and found to undergo stereoselective titanium(IV) chloride promoted reactions with aldehydes.
A new ligand [C28H20N6O8] (L2) has been synthesized by the condensation reaction of 3-hydroxy-4-nitrobenzaldehydenephenylhydrazine (L1) with diethyloxalate. This ligand L2 is allowed to react with bis(ethylenediamine)Cu(II)/Ni(II)/Zn(II) complexes. It affords [(L2)Cu(en)2]Cl2(1)/[(L2)Ni(en)2]Cl2(2)/[(L2)Zn(en)2]Cl2(3) complexes, respectively. These complexes (1-3) have been characterized by the spectral and analytical techniques. The interaction of these complexes with calf thymus (CT) DNA is characterized by the absorption spectra which exhibit a slight red shift with hypochromic effect. Electrochemical analyses and viscosity measurements have also been carried out to determine the mode of binding. The shift in ΔEp, E1/2 and Ipc values explores the interaction of CT DNA with the above metal complexes. The slight increase in the viscosity of CT DNA indicates that these complexes bind to CT DNA through a partial non-classical intercalative mode. Cleavage experiments using pBR322 DNA in presence of H2O2 indicate that these complexes behave as efficient artificial chemical nucleases in the order of 1>2>3. Moreover, the antibacterial and antifungal studies reveal that complex 1 is highly active against the bacterial and fungal growth.
A new fluorous proline-derived ligand has been synthesized and applied to the copper-catalyzed Henry reaction.The reaction conditions were optimized in terms of ligand,Cu source,solvent and base taking the reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and nitromethane as a model reaction.The optimized conditions are:using fluorous proline imide as ligand,copper acetate as copper source,methanol as solvent and triethylamine as base and the reaction was carried out at room temperature.A wide range of substrates were investigated under the optimized conditions and the yields of the target products varied from 53% to 98%.
We herein report our first results on the use of simple acetalation chemistry in the service of dynamic combinatorial libraries (DCLs); the reaction between triethylene glycol and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde afforded a DCL of more than 15 cyclic and acyclic species; all of which were separated and characterized; the smaller macrocyclic compounds were successfully amplified by the use of ammonium ions.
Abstract Single chiral center C 1 symmetric salalen and salan ligands were synthesized from ( S )-proline and their Cu(II) complexes were used as catalysts for the asymmetric Henry reaction between aromatic aldehydes and nitromethane/nitroethane. The reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and nitromethane using salalen ligand (10 mol%) and Cu(OAc) 2 ·H 2 O (10 mol%) in isopropanol with 4-methoxyphenol (10 mol%) as an additive at room temperature, afforded the ( S )-2-nitro-1-(4-nitrophenyl)ethanol in 82% yield and 81% ee . We have also generalized the catalysis of nitro-aldol reaction for a variety of substrates using nitromethane, gave 67–94% yields with 49–98% ee after 96–120 h. The absolute configuration of nitro-aldol product was governed by the use of the metal, Mn(III) complex of the ligand 2 gives ( R )-enantiomer while Cu(II) complex of same ligand gives the ( S )-enantiomer.
The transformation of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with (I) leads to decomposition of the starting materials.
Abstract Two acid–base bifunctional mesoporous materials Benzyl-APS-S-SBA-15 and Anthracyl-APS-S-SBA-15 (APS: (3-trimethoxysilanyl-propyl)-amine) were successfully synthesized by a direct synthesis method. The influence of steric hindrance upon prevention of interaction between acid and base was investigated by using two different secondary amines, benzyl-(3-trimethoxysilanyl-propyl)-amine and anthracyl methyl-(3-trimethoxysilanyl-propyl)-amine. X-ray diffraction (XRD), N 2 adsorption, thermogravimetric analysis (TGA), scanning electron micrographs (SEM), transmission electron micrographs (TEM), elemental analysis, back titration, and 29 Si magic-anglespinning (MAS) NMR were employed to characterize the synthesized mesoporous bifunctional materials. The experimental results indicate that the guests can be well dispersed in the channel of SBA-15, and the obtained materials exhibit excellent acid–basic properties, which make it possess high activity for the aldol condensation of acetone with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde.
Whereas the reaction between 2-acylphenols and 4-nitrobenzaldehydes yields 3-benzofuranones, utilisation of 2-nitrobenzaldehyde provides the corresponding flavone product.
The four-membered cyclic nitrones (2,3-dihydroazete l-oxides) 1a-d and 2a-c react with a variety of nucleophiles by stereoselective addition to the nitrone moiety. Reaction of the nitrones 1 and 2 with alkyl-, allyl-, benzyl-, and arylmagnesium halides yields the l-hydroxyazetidines 3, 4, 5, and 6, with the nucleophile adding from the less hindered side of the molecule. The keto nitrone 1b reacts with potassium cyanide to give the l-hydroxyazetidine 4f. Reduction of nitrone 1b to give the l-hydroxyazetidines 7 and 8 is achieved by reaction with lithium aluminum hydride at 0°C and at room temperature, respectively. In contrast, nitrone 1d reacts with lithium aluminum hydride only at 45°C to give the l-hydroxyazetidine 11. The differences in the reactivity of the nitrones 1 and 2 towards nucleophilic reagents are explained in terms of steric hindrance in the addition step. Oxidation of the l-hydroxyazetidine 3b with lead(IV) oxide affords the 2,3-dihydroazete l-oxide 15. Reduction of nitrone 15 with sodium borohydride affords the 1-hydroxyazetidine 16, the epimer of compound 3b. Reaction of l-hydroxyazetidine 3d with PbO2 yields the dimeric structure 17. Nitrone 1a reacts with the sodium salt of nitromethane to yield the l-hydroxyazetidine 12. Keto nitrone 1b reacts with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde in the presence of a catalytic amount of potassium hydroxide to give the 4-benzylidene-2,3-dihydroazete l-oxide 13. Upon prolonged reaction, nitrone 13 isomerizes to oxime 14, probably by an electrocyclic ring opening of an intermediate l-hydroxy-1,2-dihydroazete.
Abstract Chiral macrocyclic salen ligands 1′–3′ derived from 1 R ,2 R -(−)-1,2-diaminocyclohexane, 1 R ,2 R -(+)-1,2-diphenyl-1,2-diaminoethane and ( R )-(+)-1,1 ′ -binaphthyl-2,2 ′ -diamine with trigol bis aldehyde were prepared and characterized by microanalysis, 1 H NMR, UV/Vis. spectroscopy, optical rotation and mass spectroscopy. Highly enantioselective nitroaldol reaction of various aromatic and aliphatic aldehydes with nitromethane in presence of several bases were carried out in the presence of in situ generated Cu(I)/Cu(II) complexes with chiral macrocyclic salen ligands 1′–3′ at RT. Excellent yields (up to 92% with respect to the aldehyde) of β -nitroalcohols with high enantioselectivity (ee, ∼95%) was achieved in case of 3-methoxy- and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde in ca. 30 h with the use of chiral macrocyclic salen ligands 3′ with CuCl 2 ·2H 2 O in presence of 2,6-lutidine as a base. Chiral macrocyclic salen catalyst 3 mediated nitroaldol process is recyclable (up to 8 cycles with no significant loss in its performance). This protocol is also used for the synthesis of enantiomerically pure ( R )-phenylephrine (α1-adrenergic receptor agonist) via asymmetric nitroaldol reaction of 3-methoxybenzaldehyde in three steps.
Carboxyl-, hydroxyl-, and nitro-functionalized porous polyaminals PAN-CP, PCN-HP, and PAN-NP are synthesized by using the commercially available 4-carboxylbenzaldehyde, 4-hydroxylbenzaldehyde, and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde as monomers to polymerize with melamine, respectively, by the one-step solution polymerization technique. The effects of functional substituents on CO2 adsorption energy and porosity parameters are studied. Compared with the unsubstituted polymer (PAN-P), PAN-CP and PAN-HP exhibit the increased BET surface areas, total pore volumes, and CO2 adsorption enthalpies, resulting in the simultaneously improved CO2 adsorption capacities and selectivities over other gases. For instance, at 273 K and 1 bar, PAN-HP exhibits 21.6% higher CO2 uptake than PAN-P, while the breakthrough experiment demonstrates that its CO2/N2 selectivity (103.8) is also twice that of PAN-P (51.8). Particularly, the selectivities of CO2/N2 and CO2/CH4 in the nitro-decorated PAN-NP reach 151.3 and 21.8, respectively, which can...
When treated with nitric acid in acetic acid 2-chlorotropone gave 2-chloro-7-nitrotropone as the major product. In addition, 2-chloro-4,6-dinitrophenol and two m-hydroxybenzaldehydes were obtained together with picric acid and 2,5-dinitrobenzoic acid. Nitration of 2-chlorotropone with dinitrogen tetroxide gave 2-chloro-7-nitro- and 2-chloro-4,7-dinitro-tropone and 2-chloro-3-hydroxy-4-nitrobenzaldehyde. Rearrangement of 2-chloro-4,7-dinitrotropone with sodium hydroxide gives a mixture of 2-chloro-4-nitro and 2,5-dinitro-benzoic acid, with sodium carbonate 2-chloro-4,6-dinitrophenol, and with aqueous acetic acid a mixture of the phenol and 4-chloro-3-hydroxy-2,6-dinitrobenzaldehyde as the sole tetrasubstituted benzaldhyde. In the light of these and other facts the course of nitration is discussed. The formation of the m-hydroxybenzaldehydes constitutes a new rearrangement.
Phenylhydrazines, which are important intermediates in pharmaceutical synthesis, are known as genotoxic or mutagenic impurities. They are only allowed to be present at trace levels in drug products and therefore their control is critical in pharmaceutical development. A conventional high-performance liquid chromatograph with an ultraviolet (UV) detector is always used for the test of phenylhydrazines in drugs, but the similar maximum UV absorption wavelengths of phenylhydrazines and the drug matrix or related substances make the method lack specificity. In this paper, a simple pre-column derivatization approach was applied to selectively move the maximum absorption wavelengths of residual phenylhydrazines in drug substances to the visible region, in which most drugs have little absorption. Phenylhydrazine was chosen as the model analyte for the establishment and validation of the method. Different derivatization reagents were systematically compared, and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde was finally selected as the most suitable choice. This was because the maximum absorption wavelength of its derivative had the largest redshift to 416 nm with a strong absorption intensity, which could not only reduce the matrix interference from drug substances and related substances, but also largely minimize the interference of the derivatization reagent itself. After optimizing the reaction conditions, the limits of detection and quantification were 0.008 μg mL−1 and 0.02 μg mL−1, respectively. This method was successfully applied for the determination of residual phenylhydrazine in antipyrine and indapamide, and 4-hydrazinylbenzenesulfonamide in celecoxib.
Abstract A novel enantiopure salen ligand bearing a diphenylphosphine oxide on the 3-position of one aromatic ring was synthesized and combined with Ti(O i -Pr) 4 as a monometallic bifunctional catalyst for asymmetric cyanosilylation reaction of aldehydes with trimethylsilyl cyanide (TMSCN). The catalyst system exhibited excellent activity and moderate enantioselectivity. The addition of TMSCN to 4-nitrobenzaldehyde in the presence of 1 mol% catalyst loading could complete within 10 min at ambient temperature. An intramolecularly cooperative catalysis was observed in this system wherein the central metal Ti(IV) is suggested to play a role of Lewis acid to activate aldehydes while the appended diphenylphosphine oxide worked as Lewis base to activate TMSCN.
1,3,4-Oxadiazines are accessible by cyclodehydration of N-phenacyl-N′-acylhydrazines. 1,3,4-Oxadiazin-2-ones are prepared by cyclization of ethoxycarbonylhydrazones of α-hydroxy ketones. Bicyclic 1,3,4-oxadiazine derivatives are synthetized by ring transformation. 1,3,4-Oxadiazines decompose to alkenes on thermolysis. 1,3,4-Oxadiazines undergo ring opening by treatment with amines, hydrazine, and alcohols to arylhydrazine derivatives. 1,3-Dipolar cycloadditions of 1,3,4-oxadiazin-6-ones with dienophiles are described. 1,3,4-Oxadiazines show a broad spectrum of biological activity. 1,3,4-Thiadiazines can be prepared well by condensation of thiohydrazides with α-halocarbonyl compounds. Further important details about the synthesis and reactivity of thiadiazines are reported. New ring transformations lead to 1,3,4-thiadiazine derivatives. Depending on the substituents, 1,3,4-thiadiazine can undergo rearrangement in the presence of strong acid to 2-alkyl(aryl)imino-4-alkyl-2,3-dihydro-1,3-thiazoles. An interesting ring cleavage of 2-amino- or 2-alkyl(aryl)amino is observed with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde. Ring contraction was observed by heating of 1,3,4-thiadiazines with aldehydes or ketones in the presence of acid. Ring transformations of 1,3,4-thiadiazines under sulfur extrusion in the presence of acids, basic reagents, or triphenylphospine are reported. Rearrangements of 1,3,4-thiadiazines to pyrazoles occur also by ultrasonic irradiation, heating above the melting point, or refluxing in ethanol or toluene. 1,3,4-Thiadiazines are biologically very active compounds. 1,3,4-Thiadiazines exhibit antituberculostatic, antiviral, antithrombotic, cardiotonic, and antihypertensive activity. 1,3,4-Thiadiazines can be used in agriculture as herbicides, fungicides, pesticides, insecticides, and plant-growth regulators.
To investigate the effects of the dendrimer backbone on catalysis, a series of monomeric and dendritic SCS-pincer Pd-complexes was synthesized and tested in two different Pd(II)-catalyzed reactions. To this end, the three novel polar PAMAM dendrimer-immobilized SCS-pincer Pd-complexes 3, 4, and 5, and the two apolar carbosilane dendrimer-immobilized complexes 7 and 8 were compared to three monomeric analogues 1, 2 and 6. These complexes were investigated in the cross-coupling reaction between vinyl epoxide and styrylboronic acid and the auto-tandem reaction of cinnamyl chloride, hexamethylditin, and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde. The differences in catalytic rate and product selectivity for these complexes are described and discussed. For the cross coupling reaction, the PAMAM dendrimer-immobilized complexes were found to give a similar reaction rate, but a higher product selectivity than their monomeric counterparts. The carbosilane complexes showed a lower reaction rate and similar product selectivity. These observations are explained in view of dendrimer aggregation and peripheral group backfolding.
Renal 9-ketoprostaglandin reductase activity from rabbits fed 0.3 g or 2.5 g NaCl per 100 g chow was measured in both centrifuged homogenates and in purified enzyme fractions. There was no salt related increase in 9-ketoprostaglandin reductase activity. PGA1-glutathione, 9, 10-phenanthrenequinone, and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde were better substrates for the purified 9-ketoprostaglandin reductases than was PGE2. Several carbonyl reductases were isolated which used PGA1-glutathione, 9, 10-phenanthrenequinone, and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, but not PGE2, as substrates. Although PGA1-glutathione was a more faithful indicator of PGE2-related 9-ketoprostaglandin reductase activity than either 9, 10-phenanthrenequione or 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, it did not always provide an accurate estimate of that activity.
Abstract l -Proline amides were evaluated for catalyzing the direct aldol reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with chloroacetone. The presence of 30 mol% ( S )-pyrrolidine-2-carboxylic acid (2,4,6-trimethyl-phenyl)-amide catalyzed the direct aldol reactions of a range of aldehydes with chloroacetone to give anti -α-chloro-β-hydroxyketones with high regio-, diastereo- and enantioselectivity.
Two novel chiral dimer and trimer strands composed of m-terphenyl groups linked through p-diethynylbenzene units with the chiral amidine group and achiral piperazine group introduced at the terminus or center of the strands, respectively, and its complementary achiral carboxylic acid dimer and trimer were synthesized. The complementary chiral/achiral strands form an excess-handed double-helical structure as supported by intense split-type Cotton effects in the absorption regions of the conjugated backbones biased by the chiral amidinium-carboxylate salt bridges. The double-helical trimer was found to catalyze the direct aldol reaction of cyclohexanone with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and produce the products with a moderate enantioselectivity despite the fact that the catalytically active bifunctional piperazine/carboxylic acid pair introduced in the middle is achiral, indicating the key role of the one-handed double-helical framework for supramolecular bifunctional organocatalysis.
Antiserum raised against human aflatoxin B(1) aldehyde reductase 1 (hAFAR1) has been used to identify a previously unrecognized rat aldo-keto reductase (AKR). This novel enzyme is designated rat aflatoxin B(1) aldehyde reductase 2 (rAFAR2) and it characteristically migrates faster during SDS/PAGE than does the archetypal ethoxyquin-inducible rAFAR protein (now called rAFAR1). Significantly, rAFAR2 is essentially unreactive with polyclonal antibodies raised against rAFAR1. Besides its distinct electrophoretic and immunochemical properties, rAFAR2 appears to be regulated differently from rAFAR1 as it is expressed in most rat tissues and does not appear to be induced by ethoxyquin. Multiple forms of rAFAR2 have been identified. Anion-exchange chromatography on Q-Sepharose, followed by adsorption chromatography on columns of Matrex Orange A and Cibacron Blue, have been employed to purify rAFAR2 from rat liver cytosol. The Q-Sepharose chromatography step resulted in the resolution of rAFAR2 into three peaks of AKR activity, two of which were purified and shown to be capable of catalysing the reduction of 2-carboxybenzaldehyde, succinic semialdehyde, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and 9,10-phenathrenequinone. The two most highly purified rAFAR2-containing preparations eluted from the Cibacron Blue column were 91 and 98% homogeneous. Analysis of these by SDS/PAGE indicated that the least anionic (peak CBA5) comprised a polypeptide of 37.0 kDa, whereas the most anionic (peak CBA6) contained two closely migrating polypeptides of 36.8 and 37.0 kDa; by contrast, in the present study, rAFAR1 was estimated by SDS/PAGE to be composed of 38.0 kDa subunits. Final purification of the 37 kDa polypeptide in CBA5 and CBA6 was accomplished by reversed-phase HPLC. Partial proteolysis of the two preparations of the 37 kDa polypeptide with Staphylococcus aureus V8 protease yielded fragments of identical size, suggesting that they represent the product of a single gene. Furthermore, the peptide maps from CBA5 and CBA6 differed substantially from that yielded by rAFAR1, indicating that they are genetically distinct from the inducible reductase. A peptide generated by CNBr digestion of the 37 kDa polypeptide from CBA6 was shown by Edman degradation to share 88% sequence identity with residues Tyr(168)-Leu(183) of rAFAR1. This provides evidence that the rat protein identified by its cross-reactivity with anti-hAFAR1 serum is an additional member of the AKR7 family.
Abstract The organic material 4-nitrobenzaldehyde single crystal has been grown using the single wall ampoule with nano-translation by modified vertical Bridgman technique. The grown crystal was confirmed by single and powder X-ray diffraction (XRD). Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) analysis was used to identify the functional groups present in the grown crystal. The optical property of the grown crystal was analyzed by UV–vis–NIR and photoluminescence (PL) spectral measurements. The thermal characteristics of the grown crystal were analyzed by thermogravimetric (TG) and differential thermal analyses (DTA). The dielectric measurements were carried out with four different frequencies and the results indicate an increase in dielectric and conductivity parameters with the increase of temperature at all frequencies. The microhardness measurements were used to analyze the mechanical property of the grown crystal.
Fischer 344 rats readily develop liver cancer when exposed to aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) but dietary administration of the antioxidant ethoxyquin (EQ) provides protection against hepatocarcinogenesis. Chemoprotection by EQ is accompanied by the overexpression of enzymes which detoxify activated AFB1. Aflatoxin-protein adduct formation takes place following metabolism of AFB1 to the dialdehydic form of AFB1-dihydrodiol. The dialdehyde can be detoxified by reduction to a dialcohol through the catalytic actions of an enzyme present in the hepatic cytosol from rats fed EQ-containing diets; this metabolite is essentially undetectable in reaction mixtures that use hepatic cytosol from rats fed control diets. The enzyme responsible for catalyzing the formation of dihydroxy-aflatoxin B1 has been purified from the livers of rats fed on diets supplemented with EQ. It is a soluble monomeric protein with an approximate M r of 36,600. Besides its activity toward AFB1 this enzyme also catalyzes the reduction of the model substrate 4-nitrobenzaldehyde. Amino acid sequencing of cyanogen bromide-derived peptides obtained from this reductase indicated that it has not been characterized hitherto, at least not at a molecular level. Therefore, this inducible enzyme has been designated aflatoxin B1-aldehyde reductase (AFB1-AR). The livers of adult rats administered dietary EQ contain at least 15-fold greater levels of AFB1-AR than the livers from rats fed control diets. Aflatoxin B1-AR was also found to be present in increased amounts in livers bearing preneoplastic nodules and in rat hepatoma, both of which are known to express increased resistance to AFB1. Kidney contains high constitutive levels of AFB1-AR and the administration of EQ increases its concentration in renal cytosol about 3-fold. Although AFB1-AR is present in trace amounts in rat lung it was not detected in brain and in neither tissue was it found to be induced by EQ. Evidence suggests that AFB1-AR is a previously unrecognized enzyme that could provide protection against the cytotoxic effects of aflatoxin B1 resulting from the formation of protein adducts. The relative importance of AFB1-AR and the glutathione- S -transferase Yc2 subunit in conferring resistance to aflatoxin B1 is discussed.
Abstract The direct aldol reaction between a protected dihydroxyacetone derivative and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde catalyzed by chiral Zn2+ complexes of 1-(n-carboxylalkyl)-7-aminoacyl-1,4,7,10-tetraazacyclododecane is reported. New Zn2+ complexes containing l -histidine and carboxylalkyl chains that mimic a class II aldolase, carboxypeptidase A and a serine protease were designed and synthesized. Syn-aldol products were mainly formed by an aldol reaction of acetonide-protected dihydroxyacetone with benzaldehydes and other benzaldehydes in N-methylpyrrolidone (NMP)/alcohol (MeOH, EtOH or 2-PrOH) in good yields with a high degree of diastereo- and enantioselectivity (56%∼quant., 57∼>99% ee). Mechanistic aspect based on ESI-HRMS, elemental analysis and pH titrations of model ligands is also discussed.
The condensation of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with 3-cyano-4,6,6-trimethyl-5,6-dihydropyran-2-one leads to the formation of a crotonization product and a compound of the Michael adduct type. The main product of the photochemical conversion of (E)-3-cyano-6,6-dimethyl-4-(4-nitrophenylvinyl)-5,6-dihydropyran-2-one is the Z-isomer. Investigation of the photoisomerization of 3-cyano-6,6-dimethyl-4-(4-nitrophenylvinyl)-5,6-dihydropyran-2-one by the semiempirical AM1 method showed that in the ground state the E-isomer was thermodynamically more stable than the E-isomer. E-Z-photoisomerization is effected most probably through the lowest excited singlet state S1.
With the aim of developing sustainable enantioselective reactions, the organocatalytic activity of three proline-based α,β-dipeptides was evaluated in the asymmetric aldol reaction between cyclohexanone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde according to three contrasting experimental protocols: (1) solvent-free, under high-speed ball milling (HSBM) activation, (2) neat conditions with conventional stirring, and (3) in solution with conventional stirring. The HSBM technique, providing “green” solvent-free reaction conditions, proved to be the synthetic strategy of choice, proceeding in shorter reaction times and affording the aldol products with higher stereoselectivity. The organocatalytic activity of two of the α,β-dipeptides was then compared in the solvent-free asymmetric aldol reaction under ball-milling activation in order to establish the influence of a stereogenic center in the β-amino acid residue on the stereoinducing ability of the organocatalyst. The organocatalyst with one stereogenic center and the organocatalyst with two stereogenic centers exhibit similar efficiency in the asymmetric aldol reaction between cyclohexanone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, affording the aldol product in excellent yield, and with high anti diastereoselectivity and good enantioselectivity. Thus, the presence of a second stereogenic center in the α,β-dipeptide organocatalysts does not result in a more stereoselective reaction relative to that induced by the α,β-dipeptide organocatalyst with one stereogenic center.
Abstract The effects of benzaldehyde, which has been found in figs as a carcinostatic element, were studied on the uptake of nucleosides, 2-deoxy-d-glucose, and amino acids into simian virus 40-transformed rat fibroblast cells (SV40-transformed cells) and into the parent normal cells (normal cells). Benzaldehyde, at the concentrations of 25 to 100 µg/ml at which the selective growth inhibition against SV40-transformed cells was revealed, markedly inhibited the uptake of thymidine, other nucleosides, and 2-deoxy-d-glucose into SV40-transformed cells without any significant inhibition of the uptake of these compounds into normal cells. The uptake of amino acids into both transformed and normal cells was not inhibited by benzaldehyde. Selectively cytotoxic benzaldehyde-related compounds such as 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, 4-acetaminobenzaldehyde, thiophene-3-carboxaldehyde, etc., showed a similar inhibitory effect on thymidine uptake. The deprivation of glucose from the incubation medium strikingly diminished the inhibitory effect of benzaldehyde on the uptake of thymidine and 2-deoxy-d-glucose into SV40-transformed cells. The intracellular adenosine 5′-triphosphate level of SV40-transformed cells was reduced to less than one-half by treatment with benzaldehyde (50 µg/ml) in glucose-containing medium. This effect was not observed in glucose-free medium. Treatment with benzaldehyde caused no change of the intracellular adenosine 5′-triphosphate level of normal cells. Based on the above results, the selective cytotoxicity of benzaldehyde was attributed to the reduction of intracellular adenosine 5′-triphosphate level of transformed cells, accompanied by the poor uptake of thymidine, glucose, etc., into SV40-transformed cells.
fac-[Re(CO)3(2-nben)Cl] and fac-[Re(CO)3(4-nbzen)Cl] complexes consisting of 2-nbzen = N,N′-bis(2-nitrobenzaldehyde)-1,2-diiminoethane and 4-nbzen = N,N′-bis(4-nitrobenzaldehyde)-1,2-diiminoethane were synthesized by the reaction of Re(CO)5Cl with nbzen ligands. These complexes were characterized by physico-chemical, spectroscopic methods and X-ray crystallography. The electrochemical behavior of the two complexes was investigated by cyclic voltammetry. In the crystal structure of [Re(CO)3(4-nbzen)Cl], the neighbouring molecules are linked together by intermolecular C–H···Cl interactions to form 1D extended chains along the b-axis.
Abstract Quantum mechanics calculations have been performed to study the stereoselectivities in the direct anti - and syn -aldol reactions catalyzed by different amino acid derivatives. The effects of two kinds of catalysts, l -proline amino alcohol amides and l -leucine amino alcohol amides, on the diastereoselectivity and enantioselectivity of the direct intermolecular aldol reactions between α-substituted ketones and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde have been studied. Transition states of the crucial C–C bond-forming step with the enamine intermediate addition to the aldehyde for the subject reactions are reported. These theoretical calculations provide a good explanation for the opposite syn versus anti diastereoselectivities of these two kinds of catalysts ( anti -selectivity for the proline derivative, syn -selectivity for the leucine derivative). Calculated and observed diastereomeric ratios and enantiomeric excess values are in good agreement.
As a part of metabolic studies of mosapride (1), a potential gastroprokinetic agent, the synthesis of 4-chloro-7-ethoxy-2(3H)-benzoxazolone-6-carboxylic acid (7) as a derivative of 4-amino-5-chloro-2-ethoxy-3-hydroxybenzoic acid (6), which has served a benzoic acid part of the metabolites 4 and 5, is described. Treatment of methyl 3-amino-4-substituted amino-5-chloro-2-ethoxybenzoate derivatives 11a-c with sodium nitrate in acidic medium gave the benzotriazole derivatives 13x,y instead of the objective 3-hydroxy counterpart. The synthesis of 7 started from o-vanillin acetate (15) and proceeded through the intermediates 2-hydroxy-3-methoxy-4-nitrobenzaldehyde (18), methyl 4-amino-2,3-dihydroxybenzoate (23), and methyl 7-hydroxy-2(3H)-benzoxazolone-6-carboxylate (30). Compound 30 was alternatively prepared from 23 via methyl 4-ethoxycarbonylamino-2-ethoxycarbonyloxy-3-hydroxybenzoate (29), which is the product resulting from the migration of the ethoxycarbonyl group of methyl 4-amino-2,3-diethoxycar-bonyloxybenzoate (27).
Source of material 1-Naphthylamine (0.1 mmol, 14.3 mg) and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (0.1 mmol, 15.1 mg) were dissolved in methanol (10 ml). The mixture was stirred for 60 min at room temperature to give a clear yellow solution. After allowing the resulting solution to stand in air for 10 d, yellow prismatic crystals were formed at the bottom of the vessel by slow evaporation of the solvent. The crystals were isolated by filtration, washed with methanol and dried in a vacuum desiccator using anhydrous CaCk (yield 86 %). Elemental analysis: found -C, 73.8 %; H, 4.4 %; N, 10.2 %; calc.
The paper describes different guidelines used to develop a procedure for gas chromatographic determination of N,N-asymmetric dimethylhydrazine (NDMH) in various environmental objects in the area of a missile-dismantling base. The authors showed that the use of a capillary column with a 5-microm liquid phase layer on a Kristall-5000 chromatograph with a nitrogenous phosphoric detector (Russia) allowed development of a unified gas chromatographic procedure for determining NDMH in air, water, soil, biological material (urine), and plant cover (moss, couch-grass). The procedures differ in the way how to prepare samples and the analysis itself is based on conversion of NDMH to N,N-dimethylhydrazone-4-nitrobenzaldehyde, its liquid extraction from water, concentration of the extract via evaporation and assay by the internal standard test.
Condensation of 4-nicotinic hydrazine with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde,4-chlorobenzaldehyde,2-chlorobenzaldehyde,2,4-dichlorobenzaldehyde,3-nitrobenzaldehyde,4-methoxybenzaldehyde,furaldehyde and acetylbenzene produced corresponding hydrazones.Cyclization of intermediates with acetic anhydide gave the title compounds in good yield.Structures products were confirmed by elementary analyses,IR,~1HNMR,and MS spectroscopy,and fragmentation mechanism of MS spectra was discussed as well.
2f,3b,8a Therefore, the vapor 50 phase aminosilylation is a promising way for all the applications described above. When we use an aminosilylated surface to some applications, one essential question, that is, "how much aminosilane molecules are packed on its surface?", comes to the front. There has been reported that absolute surface densities of 55 aminosilane monolayers formed by a liquid phase process. 9 In this first report on the estimation of amine density, surface amino groups were first labeled with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (NBA). NBA molecules were chemisorbed to the monolayer surface through imine bonding. Then, UV-Vis absorbance of nitro groups, from 60 which density of the attached NBA and consequently that of the amino groups of the monolayer surface, were estimated, was measured. The authors have successfully derived absolute molecular densities of a few of alkyl-amionsilane monolayers by assuming that all the amino groups were labeled with NBA.
The change of nitroaromatics into azoxy-and azobenzene structures has been known for many decades [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] . 4-Nitrophenylacetic acid reacts in aqueous methanolic alkali to give a mixture of dioxalo-azo and -azoxybenzenes [6] while the action of aqueous alkali on 4-nitrobenzyl-pyridinium salts [7] or -thioacids [8] gives 4, . The reported mechanisms were only schematic speculations that lead to the end products. 4-Ni trosobenzaldehyde (I) was expected to be a pre cursor for II [8] . Therefore, in the present work the reaction of sodium hydroxide with I in dioxanewater media was studied in order to see whether the expected products out of the Cannizzaro reaction, namely 4-nitrosobenzyl alcohol and 4-nitrosobenzoic acid, could change in the reaction medium to give the final reaction products. In fact sodium hydroxide reacts with a-(4-nitrobenzylthio)acetic acid to give 4,4'-diformylazoxybenzene (II), 4,4'-dicarboxyazoxybenzene and a nitrone acid [9] . o . Q c h o 0hc( > ) = n o Experimental Materials 4-Nitrosobenzaldehyde was prepared by a modi fication of the method described by Alway [10] : 4.0 g (0.026 M) of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde in 50 ml methanol and 6.0 ml glacial acetic acid was treated with 4.0 g zinc dust, in portions, with stirring at 60 °C. The produced yellow-orange solution was oxidised by heating with 50 ml of 10% potassium dichromate solution and 50 ml of 10% sulfuric acid for 20 min. The solution was diluted with water, and the precipitated solid was steam distilled, which gave 4-nitrosobenzaldehyde (3.1 g) which after three crystallisations from acetone gave a product with melting point 139-140 °C ([10] m.p. 137.5), IR (KBr disk): 1700 (C=0), 1600 cm"1 (N=0); UV (CH3OH): Amax = 290nrn log £ = 3.996; 'H-NMR (CDC13): < 3 = 8.2-8.4 (m, 4H, aromatic), 10.98 (s, H, CHO) . 4, 65.9: H, 3.9; N, 11.07. Calc. for C14H, oN203: C, 66.1; H, 3.9; N, 11.02%) . IR (KBr disk): 1700 (C=0), 1425 (N = N) and 1295 cm"1 (N-O); UV (dioxane) ;.max = 332 nm logs -4.44; 'H-NMR (d6-DMSO): <5=8. 8H. aromatic), 2H, CHO) . Acidifica tion of the alkaline filtrate with dilute sulfuric acid gave a yellow acid which was crystallised from acetic acid. m.p. > 360 °C. It was identified as 4,4'-dicarboxyazoxybenzene [6, 12] .
This project built upon previous work with amino acid derivatives in the Clarke group. Originally, L-valine nitrile 4 and L-proline nitrile 5 were investigated for the first time as catalysts for the aldol reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde 1 and cyclohexanone 2 in an array of organic solvents. Interestingly, a new proline derivative 6 was synthesised and also investigated for the first time. ::: ::: Aminonitrile 4 afforded the aldol adducts with an interesting major syn diastereomer but the results in terms of conversion and enantioselectivity were discouraging. Aminonitrile 5 showed a better catalytic efficiency than 4 in terms of conversion, however, the enantioselectivity was moderate. Proline imidate 6 was investigated as an organocatalyst for the first time and promising results were gained. L-Proline imidate 6 was trialled in an array of organic solvents and different aldehydes and 6 afforded the anti (major) aldol diastereomer in a good enantiomeric excess with up to 94% ee.
Abstract In this work, the solid-liquid phase equilibrium data for ternary system of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde + 3-nitrobenzaldehyde + ethyl acetate were determined by using an isothermal saturation method at three temperatures of 278.15 K, 288.15 K, and 298.15 K under atmosphere pressure (101.2 kPa). Three isothermal phase diagrams were built based on the measured solubility data. There were two pure solids formed in the ternary system at a certain temperature, which corresponded to pure 3-nitrobenzaldehyde and pure 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, and were confirmed by Schreinemaker's method of wet residue and X-ray powder diffraction. The crystallization region of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde was larger than that of 3-nitrobenzaldehyde at each temperature. Two thermodynamic models, NRTL and Wilson were employed to correlate and calculate the mutual solubility data for the system of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde + 3-nitrobenzaldehyde + ethyl acetate. The largest value of RMSD for the ternary system was 5.95 × 10− 3, and the maximum value of RAD was 3.02%. The calculated results with NRTL model agreed well than those with Wilson model. The solid-liquid equilibrium phase diagrams and the thermodynamic models for the ternary system can provide the foundation for separating high purity3-nitrobenzaldehyde or 4-nitrobenzaldehyde from its isomeric mixtures.
The effects of different amino acid catalysts on the stereoselectivity of the direct intermolecular aldol reactions between alpha-hydroxyketones and isobutyraldehyde or 4-nitrobenzaldehyde have been studied with the aid of density functional theory methods. The transition states of the crucial C-C bond-forming step with the enamine intermediate addition to the aldehyde for the proline and threonine-catalyzed asymmetric aldol reactions are reported. B3LYP/6-31+G** calculations provide a good explanation for the opposite syn vs anti diastereoselectivity of these two kinds of amino acid catalysts (anti-selectivity for the secondary cyclic amino acids proline, syn-selectivity for the acyclic primary amino acids like threonine). Calculated and observed diastereomeric ratio and enantiomeric excess values are in good agreement.
[(NHC)(PR3)PdX2] complexes (NHC = N-heterocyclic carbene) are active precatalysts in the palladium-catalyzed allylation of carbonyl compounds with allylic acetates and diethylzinc. A comparative study examining the catalytic activity of a series of six of these complexes was carried out with allyl and cinnamyl acetates. [(IMesMe)(PPh3)PdI2] was found to be the most versatile precatalyst (IMesMe = 1-mesityl-3-methylimidazol-2-ylidene) and the scope of the reaction was investigated with this complex. [(IMesMe)(PPh3)PdI2] catalyzes the allylation of aromatic (except 4-nitrobenzaldehyde) and aliphatic aldehydes (including enolizable aldehydes) with cinnamyl acetate to give the corresponding homoallylic alcohols in 57–98 % yields and diastereoselectivities ranging from 70:30 to 92:8. The allylation of acetone also takes place under the same conditions, leading to the expected adduct in 63 % yield. The reaction with cyclohexenyl acetate proceeds at room temperature to afford the homoallylic alcohols in 40–78 % yields with excellent diastereoselectivities (>98:2), but is limited to aromatic aldehydes. An experimental study concerning the mechanism of the transformation was also carried out. We first demonstrated that the phosphane ligand was not essential for the reaction to take place. [(NHC)Pd(allyl)Cl] complexes are active precatalysts and lead to similar yields in the presence or in the absence of PPh3. Transmetalation of [(NHC)Pd(allyl)Cl] complexes with diethyl- or dimethylzinc, which is a determining step for the mechanism, was studied by 1H NMR spectroscopy. The reaction of [(IPr)Pd(allyl)Cl] with dimethylzinc affords rapidly [(IPr)Pd(η3-allyl)(Me)] but no detectable trace of allylzinc species [IPr = 1,3-bis(2,6-diisopropylphenyl)imidazol-2-ylidene]. [(IPr)Pd(η3-allyl)(Me)] was found to be a nucleophilic species able to react smoothly at room temperature with an aldehyde in the absence of zinc to form the corresponding homoallylic alcohol. (© Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, 69451 Weinheim, Germany, 2009)
Acid-base bifunctional organic polymeric catalysts were synthesized with tunable structures. we demonstrated two synthesis approaches for structural fine-tune. In the first case, the framework flexibility was tuned by changing the ratio of rigid blocks to flexible blocks within the polymer framework. In the second case, we precisely adjusted the acid-base distance by distributing basic monomers to be adjacent to acidic monomers, and by changing the chain length of acidic monomers. In a standard test reaction for the aldol condensation of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with acetone, the catalysts showed good reusability upon recycling and maintained relatively high conversion percentage.
The Schiff base ligand N-(4-nitrobenzylidiene)-N,N’-Dimethyl-4-aminoantipyrine was prepared by the condensation between 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and 4-aminoantipyrine.. The Cu and Ni complexes of the corresponding ligand were prepared and was characterized by different methods like IR, UV spectra, magnetic studies and CHN analysis . The antibacterial studies of copper and nickel complexes were also conducted. From the CHN analysis and IR spectral data the structure of Cu complex is octahedral and Ni complex are found to be tetrahedral. The complexes were studied for its antibacterial activity.
The reactions of bis(cyclopentadienyl)titanium(IV) dichloride with Schiff bases derived by condensing 2- amino-5-phenyl-1,3,4-thiadiazole with benzaldehyde (SPT), 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (SNT), 4-methoxybenzaldehyde (SMT), 2-hydroxybenzaldehyde (SSTH) or 2-hydroxyacetophenone (SATH) have been studied in refluxing tetrahydrofuran and complexes of types [Cp2TiCl(SB)]Cl (SB= SPT, SNT or SMT) and [Cp2Ti(SB')]Cl (SB'H= SSTH or SATH) have been isolated. Tentative structural conclusions are drawn for these reaction products based upon elemental analyses, electrical conductance, magnetic moment and spectral (UV-vis, IR and 1H NMR) data. Studies were conducted to assess the growth-inhibiting potential of the complexes synthesized, and the ligands, against various fungal and bacterial strains.
Tetraphenyl N-confused porphyrins (NCTPP) bearing amino substituents were synthesized for the purpose of functionalization toward water-soluble and biocompatible molecules. The Pd-catalyzed coupling reaction of 4-ethynylaniline with the 2-bromo NCTPP Ag(III) complex yields Pd(II) and Ag(III) coupling products (4a and 4b), at 39% and 55%, respectively. The identities of these products were confirmed by the differences in the isotope patterns of their molecular ion peaks as well as other spectroscopic data. The Ag(III) coupling product, 4b, was demetallated to form the final product, 5, with a yield of 85%. The meso-tetrakis(4-nitrophenyl) N-confused porphyrin, 6, was synthesized through a methanesulfonic acid catalyzed condensation of pyrrole with the 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with a yield of 6.8%. Reduction of the compound to meso tetrakis(4-aminophenyl) N-confused porphyrin, 7, was achieved with a yield of 90%.
Abstract The present paper deals with the Syntheses and Characterization of metal complexes of some substituted chalcones of 2-Hydroxy-4,5-dimethylacetophenone with aromatic aldehyde like benzaldehyde, 4-hydroxybenzaldehyde, 4-Nitrobenzaldehyde and 3-Chlorobenzaldehyde. The resulting compounds were characterized by elemental analysis, conductivity measurement, IR spectra, ESR spectra, UV-Visible and TGA analysis. The chalcones acts as bidentate ligand and coordinating through deprotonated oxygen and ketonic oxygen atoms.
Three kinds of polymer-supported catalysts loaded L-proline 6a～6c were prepared and their catalytic activity were screened by the direct asymmetric aldol reaction of acetone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde.The catalyst 6b was the best one among them.The yields and ee values(yield 60 %～68 %,62 %～82 %ee) catalyzed by 6b were as well as that of L-proline(yield 60 %～68 %,60 %～85 %ee).6b could be recoveried and reused by crystallization,and after reuse of the catalyst five times,there was no loss in activity.The DMSO and DMF was the suitable solvent and n(catalyst)∶n(aldehyde)=1∶4 was best.
1 In the L-prolinecatalyzed reaction, the necessity of using the carboxylic acid of proline remains unclear. Since Tang and co-workers reported prolinamide-catalyzed aldol reactions of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with acetone, 2 effective organocatalysts have been developed based on proline to afford facile atom economic access to optically pure compounds. 3 In 2010, Moorthy demonstrated the use of double-H potential catalysts based on L-proline and ophenylenediamine to catalyze the aldol reaction of p-nitrobenzaldehyde with cyclohexanone in DMF in the presence of TFA with desirable yield (94%), stereoselectivity (>98%), and diastereoselectivity (97 : 3). 4 Yang et al. used benzyl chloride instead of nitrobenzene sulfonic acid to synthesize prolinamide catalysts, which resulted in faster reactions with good diastereoselectivity in brine at room temperature.
Acid-base bifunctional organic polymeric catalysts were synthesized with tunable structures. we demonstrated two synthesis approaches for structural fine-tune. In the first case, the framework flexibility was tuned by changing the ratio of rigid blocks to flexible blocks within the polymer framework. In the second case, we precisely adjusted the acid-base distance by distributing basic monomers to be adjacent to acidic monomers, and by changing the chain length of acidic monomers. In a standard test reaction for the aldol condensation of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with acetone, the catalysts showed good reusability upon recycling and maintained relatively high conversion percentage.
In this work, we developed a simple and general method for preparing acid-base bifunctional polymeric catalysts. The flexibility of the framework can be tuned by changing the ratio of rigid blocks to flexible blocks that comprise the polymer (Figure 1a) . The distance between the acidic and basic sites can be adjusted precisely either by distributing the basic monomer to be adjacent to the acidic monomer units or by altering the linker length of the acidic monomers (Figure 1b) . By keeping the amount of basic monomer 3 and acidic monomer 4a constant and varying the amount of styrene 5a from 0 to 7 equivalents, we synthesized catalysts with a variety of flexible backbones and used them to evaluate the relationship between framework flexibility and catalytic activity. It should be noted that poly [(N-4-vinylbenzyl butylamine)-co-(acrylic acid)] (Poly[2-co-4]) is insoluble in acetone, whereas polystyrene is soluble; hence, the blocks of Poly[2-co-4] and polystyrene are rigid and flexible, respectively. Using an array of catalysts synthesized with acrylic acid and acrylyl-amino acids as acidic monomers with different chain length, we investigated the effects of the distance between the acidic and basic sites on the catalytic performance of the aldol condensation of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and acetone.
The reactions of bis(cyclopentadienyl)titanium(IV) dichloride with Schiff bases derived by condensing 2-amirio-5-phenyl-1,3,4-thiadiazole with benzaldehyde (SPT), 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (SNT), 4-methoxybenzaldehyde (SMT), 2-hydroxybenzaldehyde (SSTH) or 2-hydroxyacetophenone (SATH) have been studied in refluxing tetrahydrofuran and complexes of types [Cp2TiCI(SB)]C1 (SB= SPT, SNT or SMT) and [Cp2Ti(SB')]CI (SB'H SSTH or SATH) have been isolated. Tentative structural conclusions are drawn for these reaction products based upon elemental analyses, electrical conductance, magnetic moment and spectral (UV-vis, IR and IH NMR) data. Studies were conducted to assess the growth-inhibiting potential of the complexes synthesized, and the ligands, against various fungal and bacterial strains.
The oxidation of p-nitrotoluene-2-sulfonic acid to prepare 4,4′-dinitrostilbene-2,2′-disulfonic acid(DNS) was monitored,and the mechanism for the formation of by-products 4-nitrobenzaldehyde-2-sulfonic acid (NBS) and 4-nitro-2-sulfobenzonic acid(NSB) was suggested.By investigating the influences of temperature,pH value,recrystallization times and solar light on the purity and recovery of DNS,optimized conditions for the recrystallization of DNS were obtained: about 85 ℃ and pH=9—10.Finally,4,4′-diaminostilbene-2,2′-disulfonic acid(DSD) with high quality was synthesized from DNS after purification.
A procedure was developed for the determination of 1,1-dimethylhydrazine by reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography with spectrophotometric detection and preliminary derivatization by the reaction with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde. Conditions were selected for the chromatographic separation and the detection of the peaks of the reagent and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde dimethylhydrazone. The optimum conditions were found for the derivatization of 1,1-dimethylhydrazine with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde. The determination limit of 1,1-dimethylhydrazine in aqueous solutions was 120 μg/L (2 μM/L).
Two different hybrid secondary amine-functionalized mesoporous SBA-15 silica materials were synthesized by a direct synthesis method.X-ray diffraction(XRD),N2 physisorption and transmission electron micrographs(TEM) showed that the prepared materials possessed similar mesoporous structure to pure siliceous SBA-15.Thermogravimetric analysis(TGA),FTIR and elemental analysis of nitrogen indicated the successful introduction of corresponding organic functional groups into mesoporous materials.In the Aldol condensation of acetone with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde,two different hybrid secondary amine-functionalized mesoporous materials displayed enhanced catalytic performance in comparison to primary amine-functionalized materials.The possible reason is that the presence of organic functional groups with larger steric hindrance led to the enhanced catalytic performance of basic amino groups.
Abstract We present design, synthesis and application of basic chiral ionic liquids based on commercially available (S)-proline. This new set of chiral ionic liquids was specifically designed to replace trifluoroacetic acid in enamine-based organocatalysis for asymmetric C C bond formation. Based on their permanent charge, these chiral ionic liquids could be applied as organocatalysts in asymmetric aldol reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and acetone, and good yields and selectivities up to 80%ee could be obtained without additional acid.
Aromatic aldehyde 4-(2,3,4,6-tetra-O-acetyl-β-d-glucopyranosyl)semicarbazones were synthesized by the addition of different hydrazones onto O-peracetylated β-d-glucopyranosyl isocyanate. Oxidative transformations of these precursors gave O-protected 2-(β-d-glucopyranosylamino)-5-substituted-1,3,4-oxadiazoles. Removal of the O-acetyl protecting groups under Zemplen conditions gave test compounds to show low micromolar inhibition against rabbit muscle glycogen phosphorylase b. Best inhibitors of these series were 4-(β-d-glucopyranosyl)semicarbazones of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (Ki = 4.5 μM), 2-naphthaldehyde (Ki = 5.5 μM) and 2-(β-d-glucopyranosylamino)-5-(4-methylphenyl)-1,3,4-oxadiazole (Ki = 12 μM). © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Abstract Anti-rheumatic agent (±)-epoxyquinomicin B was synthesized for a 22% overall yield in eight steps from commercially available 3-hydroxy-4-nitrobenzaldehyde via the intermediate quinone 6 prepared by selective phenol oxidation of 5 by use of Fremy's salt as the key step.
In this study, we synthesized two new Schiff bases derived from metformin hydrochloride, 2-nitrobenzaldehyde, and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde via an eco-friendly methodology. Compounds 1 and 2 were successfully synthesized and characterized using elemental analysis, Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy, UV-Visible (UV-Vis) spectroscopy, 1 H nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy, 13 C NMR spectroscopy, mass spectroscopy, and differential scanning calorimetry (DSC). The antibacterial activity of both metformin-derivative Schiff bases was evaluated against a range of Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria using an agar well diffusion method.
Abstract A nonspecific NADPH-dependent carbonyl reductase from human brain (formerly designated as aldehyde reductase 1; Ris, M. M., and von Wartburg, J. P. (1973) Eur. J. Biochem. 37, 69-77) has been purified to homogeneity. The enzyme reduces a number of biologically and pharmacologically active carbonyl compounds. Quinones, e.g. menadione, ubiquinone, and tocopherolquinone are the best substrates, followed by aldehydes containing an activated carbonyl moiety, e.g. 4-nitrobenzaldehyde or methylglyoxal. The enzyme also reduces ketones, e.g. prostaglandins of the E and A class, the anthracycline antibiotic daunorubicin and 3-ketosteroids. During catalysis the pro 4S hydrogen atom of the nicotinamide ring of NADPH is transferred to the substrate. Flavonoids, e.g. quercetin and rutin, indomethacin, ethacrynic acid, and dicoumarol inhibit the enzyme activity. 4-Hydroxymercuribenzoate and iodoacetate inactivate the enzyme. NADPH and substrate do not protect against the loss of activity. Carbonyl reductase consists of a single polypeptide chain with a molecular weight of 30,000. The native enzyme occurs in three molecular forms with similar substrate specificity and inhibitor sensitivity. The isoelectric points of the three enzyme species are 6.95, 7.85, and 8.5. In the presence of coenzyme the isoelectric points are shifted to 5.2 to 5.9. The comparison of structural and enzymic features of carbonyl reductase with other monomeric oxidoreductases suggests a close relationship of carbonyl reductase with prostaglandin 9-keto-reductase and xenobiotic ketone reductase.
BACKGROUND: The conversion of hydroxybenzyl alcohols, nitro-benzyl alcohol and methoxybenzyl alcohols into the corresponding aldehydes is attempted in aqueous solution by Cu(II) (which reduces to Cu(0)), at room temperature, under acidic and deaerated conditions, using TiO2 solar simulated light photocatalysis. ::: ::: ::: ::: RESULTS: Under the experimental conditions adopted, the yields of the corresponding hydroxyaldehydes, when Cu(II) was completely reduced to Cu(0), were 21.6% for 4-hydroxybenzaldehyde, 11.5% for 3-hydroxybenzaldehyde and 20.2% for 2-hydroxybenzaldehyde. ::: ::: ::: ::: Higher conversions of 2-methoxybenzyl alcohol and 4-methoxybenzyl alcohol were recorded relative to unsubstituted benzyl alcohol. A selectivity of 5.2%, at 50% conversion of the substrate, was observed for the oxidation of 4-nitrobenzyl alcohol to 4-nitrobenzaldehyde. For high degrees of aromatic alcohols conversion, oxidation of the generated aldehydes to the corresponding benzoic acid derivatives is observed. ::: ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION: The introduction of substituents into the aromatic alcohols structure changes the photocatalytic oxidation rate and product selectivities with respect to that previously observed for unsubstituted benzyl alcohol. In particular, the presence of both electron donating (hydroxy, methoxy groups) and electron withdrawing (nitrogroup) groups on the aromatic ring of the substrate causes a detrimental effect on the selectivity of the process with respect to the case of benzyl alcohol. © 2012 Society of Chemical Industry
After hydrolyzation the condensation compound 3 of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with 2-ethoxycarbonyl-3, 4-dimethylpyrrole was converted to the corresponding diacid 4, from which six chiral porphyrin-resembling bis(oxazoline) compounds were synthesized by reacting with chiral aminoalcohol in one step.
Pyrrolidine catalyzed direct aldol reaction of methyl ketones other than acetone with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde in water affords linear aldol addition product arising from the selective attack of the unsubstituted carbon of the unsymmetrical ketone. The present methodology provides an experimentally simple and green process for regioselective synthesis of β-hydroxyketones in water.
Eight new pinene based tridentate Schiff bases of (+)-(1S,2R,3S,5S)-3-amino-6,6-dimethylbicyclo[3.1.1]heptan-2-ol were synthesized from (+)-(α)-pinene. Copper complexes of these Schiff bases were prepared for asymmetric nitroaldol (Henry) reaction. Among the eight copper complexes, 3-methylsalicylaldehyde-derived [CuSBADBH-4]2 32 showed high chiral induction (85 % ee) for the catalytic asymmetric Henry reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde. Under optimal reaction conditions, 1 mol% [CuSBADBH-4]2 32 catalyzed enantioselective Henry reaction of various aromatic and poly aromatic aldehydes afforded the corresponding (R)-β-hydroxy nitroalkanes with high ee (up to 92 %) and yield (up to 99 %).
The vCH and 2δCH Fermi resonance doublet and unperturbed vCH and unperturbed 2δCH for 4-x-benzaldehydes increase in frequency as the mole % CHCl3/CCl4 increases. One portion of the vCH and 2δCH Fermi doublet occurs in the region 2726-2746 cm−1 and the other portion of the Fermi doublet occurs in the region 2805-2845 cm−1. The unperturbed vCH for 4-x-benzaldehydes is assigned in the region 2760-2810 cm−1. Submaxima are also noted for 4-x-benzaldehydes in the region 2726-2810 cm−1 and these bands are assigned to combination tones. The vasym.NO2 mode occurs in the region 1533.60-1538.73 cm−1 and the vsym.NO2 mode occurs in the region 1344.07-1345.63 cm−1 for 4-nitrobenzaldehyde in CHCl3/CCl4 solutions. The vsym.NO2 mode shifts to lower frequency by ∼4.8 cm−1, while the vsym.NO2 mode shifts to higher frequency by ∼1.6 cm−1 in going from CCl4 solution to CHCl3 solution. The vCN mode for 4-cyanobenzaldehyde increases in frequency in a nonlinear manner as the mole % CHCl3/CCl4 increases. The vOH mode for 4-hydroxybenzaldehyde decreases in frequency in essentially a linear manner as the mole % CHCl3/CCl4 increases. The δCH mode for 4-x-benzaldehydes increases in frequency as the mole % CHCl3/CCl4 increases; however, neither unperturbed vCH nor δCH correlates with Hammett σp values.
Abstract A phosphorylated derivative of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde based on the Pudovik reaction, has been synthesized and characterized by X-ray, IR and NMR 1H, 31P and 13C spectroscopy. Single crystal X-ray diffraction showed that crystal is formed by the cation of N-didodecylphosphinoxido-4-nitrobenzyledenetetradecylammonium and the anion of 4-methylbenzenesulfonate in a 1:1 ratio and crystallizes in the triclinic space group P-1. Cations form dimers via N–H⋯O contacts with phosphoryl oxygen.
A series of chiral amino acids were found to be effective catalysts in an asymmetric aldol reaction between 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and acetone. Lewis acids and bases were found to effectively promote this reaction. Enantioselectivities greater than 74% (ee) and product yields over 85% were achieved under optimum conditions.
Abstract The nature of the product(s) in lipase-catalyzed reaction of acetyl acetone with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde was found to depend upon the source of lipase and the reaction medium. Mucor javanicus lipase was found to give 70% aldol with 80% enantiomeric excess in anhydrous t-amyl alcohol. A 2:2 adduct was formed by the dimerization of the aldol along with an unsaturated cyclic ether as the side products in varying proportions depending upon the reaction medium and the lipase used. [Supplementary materials are available for this article. Go to the publisher's online edition of Synthetic Communications® for the following free supplemental resource(s): Full experimental and spectral details.]
Abstract Sulpholane, a commercially available solvent, is used for the first time as a new solvent for the Baylis–Hillman reaction under ambient conditions; a wide variety of olefins as well as aldehydes participate very efficiently resulting in good to excellent yields of products. Acrylamide also underwent the Baylis–Hillman reaction with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde under these reaction conditions.
An NAD(P)-dependent 3 alpha-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (EC 1.1.1.50) was purified to homogeneity from rat liver cytosol, where it is responsible for most if not all of the capacity for the oxidation of androsterone, 1-acenaphthenol and benzenedihydrodiol (trans-1,2-dihydroxycyclohexa-3,5-diene). The dehydrogenase has many properties (substrate specificity, pI, Mr, amino acid composition) in common with the dihydrodiol dehydrogenase (EC 1.3.1.20) purified from the same source [Vogel, Bentley, Platt & Oesch (1980) J. Biol. Chem. 255, 9621-9625]. Since 3 alpha-hydroxysteroids are by far the most efficient substrates, the enzyme is more appropriately designated a 3 alpha-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase. It also promotes the NAD(P)H-dependent reductions of quinones (e.g. 9,10-phenanthrenequinone, 1,4-benzoquinone), aromatic aldehydes (4-nitrobenzaldehyde) and aromatic ketones (4-nitroacetophenone). The dehydrogenase is not inhibited by dicoumarol, disulfiram, hexobarbital or pyrazole. The mechanism of the powerful inhibition of this enzyme by both non-steroidal and steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs [Penning & Talalay (1983) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 80, 4504-4508] was examined with several substrates. Most non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are competitive inhibitors (e.g. Ki for indomethacin, 0.20 microM for 9,10-phenanthrenequinone reduction at pH 6.0, and 0.835 microM for androsterone oxidation at pH 7.0), except for salicylates, which act non-competitively (e.g. Ki for aspirin, 650 microM for androsterone oxidation). The inhibitory potency of these agents falls sharply as the pH is increased from 6 to 9. Most anti-inflammatory steroids are likewise competitive inhibitors, except for the most potent (betamethasone and dexamethasone), which act non-competitively. The enzyme is inhibited competitively by arachidonic acid and various prostaglandins.
MOFs have attracted considerable attention because of their enormous varieties of interesting molecular topologies and wide potential applications as functional materials [18] [19] [20] [21] [22] [23] [24] [25] [26] [27] [28] . In recent years, numerous studies have focused on the heterogenization of homogeneous catalysts based on MOFs [29] [30] [31] [32] [33] [34] . An important characteristic of MOFs is the possibility of post-synthesis modification as a practical approach to incorporate a wide range of functional groups into MOFs to produce materials with new functionalities [35] [36] [37] [38] [39] . Post-synthesis modification could be implemented to impart functionality to MOFs depending on their intrinsic chemical and structural characteristic [40] [41] [42] [43] [44] [45] . Recently, Kutzscher et al. successfully synthesized proline functionalization UiO-67 and UiO-68 catalysts (UiO-67-NHPro and UiO-68-NHPro) by post-synthesis modification [21] . Both catalysts showed reversed diastereoselectivity in aldol addition, preferring syn-aldol adduct formation for reaction of cyclohexanone with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, in contrast to homogeneous catalysis preferring the antialdol adduct [21] . Additionally, Saedi et al. synthesized two MOF-supported Mo(VI) oxidation catalysts bearing N,O-chelating ligand via dative and covalent-dative post-synthesis modifications of a two-fold interpenetration pillared-layer amine-functionalized MOF known as TMU-16-NH 2 [19] . Both of the modified MOFs exhibited good selectivity toward epoxide compared with the other oxidative products, and full reusability for alkenes epoxidation by tert-butylhydroperoxide.
Abstract Periodic mesoporous organosilica materials (PMOs) offer unique possibilities towards catalysis due to their high stability and tunable organic bridges. Moreover, the presence of the organic bridges make them, in comparison with the traditional silica materials, much more robust in an aqueous environment. As a result, these materials can be applied as catalysts for the valorization of biomass-based resources which are, typically, performed in the presence of water. In this work, we post-synthetically modified benzene bridged PMO with L-serine, thus obtaining a bifunctional PMO bearing a primary amine with an alcohol group on the β-carbon. The promoting effect of the alcohol, in combination with the amine as a base catalyst, is beneficial in the aldol condensation of acetone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde. Thorough characterization, including a solid state NMR study, of the L-serine modified PMO was performed as well as a successful catalytic test in an aqueous environment. We obtained a TOF value of 1.61 × 10−4 ± 0.08 × 10−4 s−1 and a high selectivity towards the aldol product.
Abstract Thiosemicarbazones are known to be active against different pathogenic microorganisms including Trypanosoma cruzi, the etiological agent of Chagas disease. In the search for new therapeutic drugs against this illness, the complexes [Mn(H4NO2Fo4M)2Cl2] (1), [Mn(H4NO2Ac4M)2Cl2] (2) and [Mn(H4NO2Bz4M)2Cl2] (3) of N4-methyl-4-nitrobenzaldehyde thiosemicarbazone (H4NO2Fo4M), N4-methyl-4-nitroacetophenone thiosemicarbazone (H4NO2Ac4M) and N4-methyl-4-nitrobenzophenone thiosemicarbazone (H4NO2Bz4M) were obtained and screened in vitro against bloodstream and intracellular forms of T. cruzi. H4NO2Fo4M, H4NO2Ac4M and their Mn(II) complexes displayed poor effect on bloodstream trypomastigotes, with IC50 values ranging from 68 to >200 μM. However, although H4NO2Bz4M was also not active, its corresponding Mn(II) complex presented high effect on this T. cruzi form, with an IC50 value of 19 μM. The effect of complex (3), against trypomastigotes of T. cruzi supports further in vitro as well as in vivo studies.
Combined experimental and theoretical studies on molecular and vibrational structure of 2-nitrobenzaldehyde and 4-nitrobenzaldehydes are reported. The Fourier transform infrared and Fourier transform Raman spectra of 2NB and 4NB has been recorded in the solid phase. The optimized geometry has been calculated by HF and B3LYP methods with 6-311++G(d,p) basis set. The harmonic vibrational frequencies of the title compounds have been performed at the same level of theories. The scaled theoretical wave numbers show very good agreement with the experimental values. The thermodynamic functions of the title compounds have also been computed at HF/6-311++G(d,p) and B3LYP/6311++G(d,p) levels of theory. A detailed interpretation of the infrared and Raman spectra of 2NB and 4NB is reported. The theoretical FT-IR spectra of the title molecules have also been constructed. Green and Harrison 1 reinvestigated the vibrational spectra of o-, m- and p-benzaldehydes. They carried out band contour analysis for IR fundamentals in vapour phase, measured depolarization ratios for liquids in Raman spectra and proposed tentative assignments. Hankin et al . 2 studied the vibrational
Abstract N4-Methyl-4-nitrobenzaldehyde thiosemicarbazone (H4NO2Fo4M), N4-methyl-4-nitrobenzophenone thiosemicarbazone (H4NO2Bz4M) and their ruthenium(II) complexes [Ru(4NO2Fo4M)2(PPh3)2] (1), [Ru(4NO2Bz4M)2(PPh3)2] (2), [Ru(4NO2Fo4M)2(dppb)] (3) and [Ru(4NO2Bz4M)2(dppb)] (4) (dppb = 1,4-bis(diphenylphospine)butane) were obtained and characterized. The crystal structure of H4NO2Fo4M has been determined. Electrochemical studies have shown that the nitro anion radical, one of the proposed intermediates in the mechanism of action of nitro-containing anti-trypanosomal drugs, is formed at approximately −1.00 V in the free thiosemicarbazones as well as in their corresponding ruthenium(II) complexes, suggesting their potential to act as antitrypanosomal drugs. The natural fluorescence of H4NO2Fo4M, H4NO2Bz4M and complexes (1)–(4) provides a way to identify and to monitor their concentration in biological systems.
New allylphosphonates have been prepared; an X-ray structural proof for the major Z-isomer has been given for phospho- nate 3. Horner-Wadsworth-Emmons reaction of 3 or 6 (Z isomer) with aromatic aldehydes leads to carbomethoxy/ cyano substituted butadienes. In the reaction using cyanoallylphosphonate 6, use of either Z or E isomer leads to the same E,Z product; stereochemistry of one such cyano product is confirmed by X-ray crystallography. In the reaction of 3 with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde stereochemistry for the (E,E) isomer is confirmed by X-ray crystallography.
AbstractThe effects of the choice of lipase, reaction medium, immobilization, presence of additives and temperature on conversion and stereoselectivity during a lipase catalysed decarboxylative aldol reaction were examined. It was shown that Candida antarctica lipase B (CALB) catalysed a decarboxylative aldol reaction between 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and ethyl acetoacetate in a 60% acetonitrile–40% aqueous buffer co-solvent mixture. Interestingly, free and immobilized forms of CALB showed opposite enantioselectivity in this media. The addition of 30 mol% imidazole increased the reaction rate from 8.5 to 55.7 μM min− 1 mg− 1. A 98% conversion could be achieved in 14 h (instead of 168 h) by adding imidazole. Other lipases also catalysed this reaction in different reaction media to a varying extent. With Mucor javanicus lipase in 30% DMSO, 20% enantiomeric excess (ee) of the (R)-product was observed. CALB also catalysed this reaction in nearly anhydrous acetonitrile. In the presence of cross-linked protein coated...
Abstract Saccharomyces cerevisiae has been employed as a whole cell catalyst for a number of asymmetric transformations. This work explores the ability of this microorganism to carry out the asymmetric aldol condensation between 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and acetone. For this purpose, lyophilized cells of the FY86 laboratory strain from stationary phase cultures were employed. This reaction shows stereoselectivity, and its progress is affected by the water concentration in the medium, temperature and the growth stage of the yeast culture. Cell lysis experiments indicate that activity responsible for this biotransformation is located in the soluble fraction.
A new series of phthalazine substituted β-lactam derivatives were synthesized and their inhibitory effects on the activity of purified human carbonic anhydrase (hCA I and II) were evaluated. 2H-Indazolo[2,1-b]phthalazine-trione derivative was prepared with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, dimedone, and phthalhydrazide in the presence of TFA in DMF, and the nitro group was reduced to 13-(4-aminophenyl)-3,3-dimethyl-3,4-dihydro-2H-indazolo[1,2-b]phthalazine-1,6,11(13H)-trione with SnCl2 · 2H2O. The reduced compound was reacted with different aromatic aldehydes, and phthalazine substituted imines were synthesized. The imine compounds undergo (2+2) cycloaddition reactions with ketenes to produce 2H-indazolo[2,1-b]phthalazine-trione substituted β-lactam derivatives. The β-lactam compounds were tested as inhibitors of the CA isoenzyme activity. The results showed that all the synthesized compounds inhibited the CA isoenzyme activity. 1-(4-(3,3-dimethyl-1,6,11-trioxo-2,3,4,6,11,13-hexahydro-1H-indazolo[1,2b]phthalazin-13-yl)phenyl)-2-oxo-4-p-tolylazetidin-3-yl acetate (IC50 = 6.97 µM for hCA I and 8.48 µM for hCA II) had the most inhibitory effect.
Water was found to be a suitable solvent for the l-prolinethioamide catalysed aldol reaction of various cyclic ketones with aromatic aldehydes. Treatment of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with as little as 1.2 equiv. of cyclohexanone in the presence of the protonated catalyst 1-TFA, afforded aldol products in high yields (up to 97%) with high diastereo- and enantioselectivity (up to >5 : 95 dr and 98% ee). The use of a high excess of ketone was avoided by conducting the aldol addition in the presence of water. Furthermore, different 'salting-out' and 'salting-in' salts were investigated and it was proven that the rate of acceleration and the stereochemical outcome of the reaction are affected by hydrophobic aggregation. Scope and limitation studies revealed that electron deficient aldehydes afforded aldol products with high stereoselectivity in the presence of 1-Cl(2)CHCO(2)H. It was shown that various cyclic ketones, under the conditions found, gave aldol products with fair yields, even if they are used in substoichiometric amounts (1.2 to 2.0 equiv.).
A transient release of protons with an amplitude corresponding to one proton per active site has been observed for the oxidation of propionaldehyde, acetaldehyde, and benzaldehyde by sheep liver cytoplasmic aldehyde dehydrogenase at pH 7.6 with phenol red as indicator. At saturating substrate levels, the rate constants for the proton burst are in each case the same, and for acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde show the same dependence on the concentrations of the substrates, as the rate constants for the transient production of NADH reported previously [MacGibbon, A.K.H., Blackwell, L.F., & Buckley, P.D. (1977) Biochem. J. 167, 469-477]. Although, with propionaldehyde as a substrate, a full proton burst is also observed at pH 6.0, no proton burst is observed at pH 9.0. For 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, there is no burst in NADH production, but a burst in proton release is observed, showing that proton release precedes hydride transfer. No protons were released during the binding of the substrate analogues acetone and chloral hydrate nor on reaction of the enzyme with the inhibitor tetraethylthiuram disulfide (disulfiram). A model is proposed in which the rate-limiting step in the pre-steady-state phase of the reaction is a conformational change which occurs after the binding of aldehydes to the enzyme. As a result of the conformational change, the environment of a functional group on the enzyme, which initially has a pKa of about 8.5, is perturbed to give a final pKa value for the group of less than 5. Computer simulations were used to show that the model accurately reproduces all of the experimental data. The lack of observation of a second transient proton release, as required by the overall stoichiometry, argues that its release occurs in a slow step prior to NADH dissociation.
By reaction of aldehydic polystyrene and ethylene diamine, polystyrene–imine–amine reagent was produced. Reaction of this reagent with benzaldehyde and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde resulted in polystyrene-diimines (3a and 3b). These reagents were used for the immobilization of molybdenum hexacarbonyl. The functionalized polystyrene and supported-diimine molybdenum carbonyl catalysts were characterized by FT-IR spectrum and CHN analysis. The molybdenum content of catalysts was determined by neutron activation analysis. Supported-diimine molybdenum carbonyl pre-catalysts (3aM and 3bM) were used in epoxidation of cyclooctene, and the reaction parameters such as solvent and oxidant were optimized and the epoxidation of different alkenes was investigated in optimizing these conditions. The obtained results in the presence of polymer-supported diimine molybdenum carbonyl pre-catalysts (3aM and 3bM) showed that they were very active and selective in the epoxidation of a wide range of alkenes. The reusability of the supported pre-catalysts was also studied. The results showed that they were highly reusable in epoxidation of alkenes.
Abstract Miniemulsion systems presented a great potential for biocatalytic reactions. However, different limitations jeopardized the applications of this non-conventional medium. In this work, miniemulsion systems (emulsion reactors) were applied for the first time to the aldol reaction between cyclohexanone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde by Rhizopus niveus lipase allowing a decrease in the catalyst concentration from 20 mg mL-1 to 6 mg mL-1 in comparison with organic solvents. Moreover, the yield increased from ∼25% to ∼65% for 48 h reactions and the enantiomeric excess increased from ∼10% to ∼30% for (R,S)-anti-product, showing the potentiality of this non-conventional reaction medium. The advances reported in this work expands the possibilities of the miniemulsion reaction medium to a whole new level, increasing the scope to solid reagents and products, and also different reactions (biocatalytic or not) that requires pH control by buffers with a simple product isolation procedure, enabling future applications of this poorly studied reaction medium.
The neuromodulator γ-hydroxybutyrate is synthesized in vivo from γ-aminobutyrate by transamination to succinic semialdehyde and subsequent reduction of the aldehyde group. In human brain, succinic semialdehyde reductase is thought to be responsible for the conversion of succinic semialdehyde to γ-hydroxybutyrate. In the present work, we cloned the cDNA coding for succinic semialdehyde reductase and expressed it in Escherichia coli. A data bank search indicated that the enzyme is identical with aflatoxin B1-aldehyde reductase, an enzyme implicated in the detoxification of xenobiotic carbonyl compounds. Structurally, succinic semialdehyde reductase thus belongs to the aldo–keto reductase superfamily. The recombinant protein was indistinguishable from native human brain succinic semialdehyde reductase by SDS/PAGE. In addition to succinic semialdehyde, it readily catalyzed the reduction 9,10-phenanthrene quinone, phenylglyoxal and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, typical substrates of aflatoxin B1 aldehyde reductase. The results suggest multiple functions of succinic semialdehyde reductase/aflatoxin B1 aldehyde reductase in the biosynthesis of γ-hydroxybutyrate and the detoxification of xenobiotic carbonyl compounds, respectively.
Abstract In this work, we investigated the catalytic aldolase activity of the porcine pancreas lipase (PPL) for 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (4-NBA) and acetone in different deep eutectic solvent (DES) compared with bovine serum albumin (BSA)-catalyzed aldol reaction. The PPL catalyzed the aldol addition specifically towards the desired aldol product, especially in hydrophobic DES. In contrast to this result, BSA-catalyzed aldol additions did not exhibit specificity for neither aldol nor olefin formation. For the PPL-catalyzed reactions, the product composition could be directly correlated with the choice of DES, differing in their hydrophobicity. The initial reaction velocity of the aldol addition was higher in the hydrophilic DES ChCl:Gly. However, this DES was limited by the solubility for the 4-NBA substrate. The 4-NBA containing DES exhibited the highest solubility for 4-NBA. However, the fastest reaction with a final yield of 1296.5 mM, which corresponds to 71% yield and 82% conversion after 32 h, was achieved in the co-solvent acetone, making this reaction solvent-less and improving the productivity up to 40.5 mM h−1 compared to reactions performed in DES.
A novel chiral ionic liquid, compound 1, based on camphorsulfonic acid, was prepared. A catalytic amount of 1 readily promotes L-proline-catalyzed aldol reactions, with good chemoselectivity, both in H2O and in organic solvents. Further, the aldol reaction of cyclohexanone with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde afforded 2-[hydroxy(4-nitrophenyl)methyl]cyclohexanone (6) in 98% yield with high enantioselectivity (94% ee) when large amounts of 1 (5 equiv.) were used as promoter.
The invention relates to 5-(4-nitrophenyl)-3-hydroxylisoxazole and a preparation process and use thereof. The preparation process comprises the following steps: 1) by taking 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, triphenyl phosphine and ethyl chloroformate as initial raw materials, generating corresponding 3-(4-nitrophenyl) ethyl acrylate by Witting reaction; 2) carrying out additive reaction on 3-(4-nitrophenyl) ethyl acrylate and bromine to generate corresponding ethyl 3-(4-nitrophenyl)-2, 3-dibromo propionate; and 3) carrying out reaction on ethyl 3-(4-nitrophenyl)-2, 3-dibromo propionate and hydroxylamine hydrochloride under the effect of sodium hydroxide to close the ring to generate corresponding 5-aryl-3-hydroxylisoxazole. The 5-(4-nitrophenyl)-3-hydroxylisoxazole provided by the invention has the beneficial effects that the 5-(4-nitrophenyl)-3-hydroxylisoxazole can be developed as an insecticide and has a wide application prospect.
Abstract We have compared the catalytic activity of horse liver alcohol dehydrogenase (LADH) with a synthetic zinc model complex in the presence of N-benzyl-1,4-dihydronicotinamide (BNAH), a cofactor which serves as a biomimetic for the natural cofactor NADH. We have used five different substrates (benzaldehyde, p-anisaldehyde, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, 2-pyridine carboxaldehyde, and 5-pyrimidine carboxaldehyde) in this study. These substrates vary in their substituent inductive effect, which is the ability to donate or withdraw electron density away from their carbonyl-functional group. Our results reveal that in the presence of NADH, geometric factors (induced fit of the substrate and cofactor in the enzyme active site) are vital. However, reactivity assays show that in the presence of BNAH, there is a strong correlation between substrate electronic environment and the observed catalytic rate, i.e. the more electron withdrawn the substrate, the greater the speed at which the reduction reaction occurs. NMR spectroscopy reveals that a synthetic zinc model complex catalyzes the reduction of substrates in a manner consistent with LADH enzyme.
Chiral diamines with C 1 and C 2 symmetry have been synthesized from 2-hydroxypinan-3-one and tested as ligands in Cu-catalyzed asymmetric nitroaldol reaction of nitromethane with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde.
The surface of a fused silica and oxidized silicon wafer (SiO2/Si(100)) was treated with (4-aminophenyl)trimethoxysilane (1), (3-aminopropyl)triethoxysilane (2), (3-aminopropyl)diethoxymethylsilane (3), and (3-aminopropyl)ethoxydimethylsilane (4) in solution. The thickness of thus formed aminosilane layers was determined with ellipsometry. In most cases silane coupling agents produce monolayers of 6−10 A thickness, but reagent 2 gives multilayers with variable thickness (6−100 A) depending upon the dipping time. The aminosilane layers were allowed to react with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, and formation of the corresponding imines was confirmed by UV−vis spectroscopy. Relative surface density of the amines was calculated from the observed absorbance. In aqueous medium the imines were easily hydrolyzed to regenerate the amine group. The process, the formation, and the subsequent hydrolysis of the imines, can be repeated several times without any noticeable degradation of the absorption characteristics. The ellipso...
Abstract Various substituted benzaldehydes were converted into benzoate esters with household bleach and sodium iodide in an alcohol solvent. The reaction works best with methanol. Only 4-chlorobenzaldehyde, 3-nitrobenzaldehyde, and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde reacted completely with 1-propanol under these conditions. [Supplementary materials are available for this article. Go to the publisher's online edition of Synthetic Communications® for the following free supplemental resource(s): Full experimental and spectral details.]
The surface of a fused silica and oxidized silicon wafer (SiO2/Si(100)) was treated with (3-aminopropyl)triethoxysilane (1), (3-aminopropyl)diethoxymethylsilane (2), and (3-aminopropyl)ethoxydimethylsilane (3) for 72 h in solution. Thickness of the aminosilylated film out of 1 increases rapidly, and it turns out to be around 100 A in 72 h. Rather slow increase of the thickness is observed for 2, which produces the layers of 8 and 14 A in 10 and 72 h, respectively. The reagent 3 produces the monolayers of constant thickness 7−8 A during the whole span of the reaction. The aminosilane layer was allowed to react with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde to form an imine, and absorbance (Asurf) of the imine was recorded by UV−vis spectroscopy. The imine was hydrolyzed in a known volume of water to produce 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, and subsequently its absorbance was measured. Thus observed number of the aldehyde molecules is equivalent to the number of the imine molecules on the surface. With the known surface area of the substrat...
The (S)-proline derivative (PRO) is found to be the most efficient catalyst for the asymmetric aldol reaction between cyclohexanone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde.
The isomeric compounds (E)-2-nitrobenzaldehyde 3-nitrophenylhydrazone and (E)-3-nitrobenzaldehyde 2-nitrophenylhydrazone, both C13H10N4O4, are isomorphous and effectively isostructural, and in both, the molecules are disordered across centres of inversion in the space group P21/c. The molecules are linked into complex chains of rings by N-H...O and C-H...O hydrogen bonds. In the isomeric compound (E)-4-nitrobenzaldehyde 2-nitrophenylhydrazone, the fully ordered molecules are linked by N-HO hydrogen bonds into centrosymmetric dimers.
New copper(II), zinc(II) and nickel(II) Schiff base complexes derived from 2,3-diaminopyridine (DAPY) and selected aldehydes, namely salicylaldehyde (SalH), 4-hydroxybenzaldehyde (4-OHBenz) and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (4-NO2Benz), and one mixed Schiff base, DAPY-{4-OHBenz}{SalH} were prepared and characterized by a combination of elemental analyses, i.r. and n.m.r. spectra, and magnetic susceptibility measurements. The Schiff bases and some of the metal complexes display antibacterial properties.
This paper reports an investigation into organocatalytic hydrogels as prebiotically relevant systems. Gels are interesting prebiotic reaction media, combining heterogeneous and homogeneous characteristics with a structurally organized active “solid-like” catalyst separated from the surrounding environment, yet in intimate contact with the solution phase and readily accessible via “liquid-like” diffusion. A simple self-assembling glutamine amide derivative 1 was initially found to catalyze a model aldol reaction between cyclohexanone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, but it did not maintain its gel structure during reaction. In this study, it was observed that compound 1 could react directly with the benzaldehyde to form a hydrogel in situ based on Schiff base 2 as a low-molecular-weight gelator (LMWG). This new dynamic gel is a rare example of a two-component self-assembled LMWG hydrogel and was fully characterized. It was demonstrated that glutamine amide 1 could select an optimal aldehyde component and preferent...
Abstract 18 F Labelled MR18445 (4-[4-(4-[ 18 F]fluorobenzyl)piperazino]-7-methoxypyrrolo[1,2-α] quinoxaline), a selective 5-HT 3 receptor partial agonist with nanomolar affinity, was synthesized and examined as a potential radioligand for PET imaging of brain 5HT 3 receptors. Radiotracer was prepared by N -alkylation of the MR18491 precursor with 4-[ 18 F]fluorobenzyl iodide. This latter was synthesized in a three-step procedure from 4-[ 18 F]fluorobenzaldehyde obtained by 18 F-nucleophilic displacement of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, subsequently reduced to 4-[ 18 F]fluorobenzyl alcohol and converted into reactive 4-[ 18 F]fluorobenzyl iodide. The reduction step was performed on a column filled with NaBH 4 /Al 2 O 3 and 4-[ 18 F]fluorobenzyl alcohol was obtained with high reproducible yield (82–93% from 4-[ 18 F]fluorobenzaldehyde) if there were traces of water in the system. The radiosynthesis of [ 18 F]MR18445 required approximately 120 min. Semi-preparative HPLC purification followed by formulation gave injectable solutions of [ 18 F]MR18445 with a radiochemical purity >99%. The overall yield of the synthesis was mainly dependent upon the first step efficiency of aromatic incorporation of 18 F − and varied from 12% to 29%. All the synthetic procedure was realized on a ZYMARK robotic system. Biological in vivo studies in rats showed that uptake of [ 18 F]MR18445 in brain was rapid and high. No evidence of radiolabeled metabolites could be observed in the brain as late as 40 min after injection, despite the rapid appearance of metabolites in the plasma. However, neither phosphorimaging autoradiographic studies in rats nor PET experiments in baboons revealed specific binding of the radiotracer in brain, suggesting [ 18 F]MR18445 is not suitable for 5-HT 3 receptors PET studies.
Abstract The 4-R-benzaldehyde thiosemicarbazones ( L - R ) are known to react with [Rh(PPh 3 ) 3 Cl] in refluxing ethanol in the presence of a base (NEt 3 ) to afford organorhodium complexes ( 2 - R ), where the thiosemicarbazones are coordinated to rhodium as tridentate CNS donors with the sulfur atom oxidized by aerial oxygen to sulfone. Two triphenylphosphines and a hydride are also coordinated to the metal center. From the reaction with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde thiosemicarbazone, a second organorhodium complex ( 1 - NO 2 ) is obtained, in which the sulfur atom is not oxidized. Reaction of the 4-R-benzaldehyde thiosemicarbazones with [Rh(PPh 3 ) 3 Cl] in refluxing ethanol in the absence of NEt 3 affords another group of organorhodium complexes ( 3 - R ), in which the thiosemicarbazones are coordinated to rhodium as tridentate CNS donors, along with two triphenylphosphines and a chloride. In these 3 - R complexes also the sulfur atom is not oxidized. Structures of all the complexes have been optimized by DFT calculations and compared with the already known X-ray crystallographic structures. Also the experimentally observed electronic absorption bands have been assigned to specific transitions based on the TDDFT studies. Molecular electrostatic potential (MESP) topographical analysis performed to find the deepest MESP point on the coordinated sulfur atom ( V min ) is used as a probe for assessing the oxidizability of the coordinated sulfur in 1 - R and 3 - R complexes. Energy differences between the three sets of complexes have been estimated and based on the results obtained, 3 - R has been experimentally transformed into 2 - R , via formation of 1 - R as the intermediate.
Catalysis of the aldol reaction between cyclohexanone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde by mixtures of L-Arg and of L-Glu in wet dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) takes place with higher enantioselectivity (up to a 7-fold enhancement in the anti-aldol for the 1:1 mixture) than that observed when either L-Glu or L-Arg alone are used as the catalysts. These results can be explained by the formation of a catalytically active hydrogen-bonded complex between both amino acids, and demonstrate the possibility of positive cooperative effects in catalysis by two different α-amino acids. Chirality 28:599-605, 2016. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
the nanocomposites formed by SO3H-hollow-nanosphere and chiral amine are highly efficient catalysts for the direct asymmetric aldol reaction of cyclohexanone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde. The catalyst showed 91% yield with 96% ee under optimized reaction conditions. The nanocomposites showed much higher reaction rate than the catalyst formed be the combination of chiral amine and SO3H-mesoporous-organosilica(ribbon shaped particle with particle size of tens of micrometers)in the direct asymmetric aldol trection. This is mainly attributed to the hollow spherical morpholigy and nano-scaled partical size (16-20nm)of the SO3H-hollow-nanospheres.Our results show that the hollow nanosphere is an excellent catalysts or catalyst support for heterogeneous catalysis, and its applications in other fields can be expected.
NADPH-dependent 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone 3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3 beta-HSD) was purified to apparent homogeneity from mature pig testicular cytosol. The purified enzyme catalyzed the conversion of 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone (5 alpha-DHT) to 5 alpha-androstane-3 beta, 17 beta-diol. The molecular weight was estimated to be 31 kDa by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and 28 kDa by gel filtration chromatography, indicating that the native 3 beta-HSD is a monomer. The isoelectric point of the purified enzyme was 5.8 as determined by chromatofocusing. The purified enzyme reduced not only 5 alpha-DHT but also 5 beta-DHT, 5 alpha(or 5 beta)-androstanedione, 5 alpha(or 5 beta)-dihydroprogesterone, prostaglandin E1, 13,14-dihydro-15-keto-prostaglandin F2 alpha, glyceladehyde, xylose and glucuronic acid. Moreover, the enzyme reduced other carbonyl compounds including aromatic aldehydes, aromatic ketones and quinones such as 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, 4-benzoylpyridine, phenylglyoxal, cyclohexanone and 9,10-phenanthrenequinone at high rates when compared with steroids, prostaglandins and sugars. The purified enzyme was inhibited by AgNO3, SH-reagent, disulfiram, hexesterol, stilbestrol, disulfiram and divalent cations such as Cu2+, Hg2+, Cd2+ and Co2+. Furthermore, the enzymatic properties of the purified enzyme, including catalytic activity, inhibitory effects by various agents and immunological properties, were compared with those of 3 alpha/beta-HSD enzymes from pig testicular cytosol.
The synthesis of the title compounds by dye-sensitized photooxygenation of 2-methoxyfurans in the presence of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde oxime is described. The crystal structure determination of a derivative is also reported.
A new oxypyrone diamine, 2,6-bis(4-aminophenyl)-3,5-dimethyltetrahydro-4H-pyran-4-one (DAPP), was prepared from 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and 3-oxa-n-pentane in a two-step reaction with a high yield and a high purity. Aromatic polyamides were obtained from this novel condensation monomer and several diacid chlorides through the conventional low-temperature solution method in N,N-dimethylacetamide. Polycondensation results were consistent with a high reactivity for DAPP because high yields and high molecular weight polyamides were obtained with inherent viscosities up to 1.8 dL/g. The reactivity of DAPP was also estimated with theoretical calculations from computer programs for molecular simulation, with orbital and charge factors considered. The polymers showed improved solubility in organic solvents, relative to conventional wholly aromatic polyamides, and high glass-transition temperatures (from differential scanning calorimetry) over 270 °C. However, the thermal resistance, as estimated by thermogravimetric analysis, was lower than that of conventional aromatic polyamides; nevertheless, decomposition temperatures well beyond 300 °C were observed in nitrogen and air. © 2001 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. J Polym Sci A: Polym Chem 39: 1825–1832, 2001
Abstract Activated carbons catalysts from different raw materials as Orbignya phalerata , Cocus nucifera , ox bone and Elaies guineensis were tested on Claisen-Schmidt condensation reaction to obtain chalcone. The activated carbons were used in both forms, raw and treated with NaOH and were characterized by scanning electron microscopy, thermogravimetric and differential thermal analysis, determination of specific surface area by adsorption/desorption of N 2 at 77 K method, infrared spectroscopy, X-ray diffraction and basic sites by Boehm Method. Finally, the performance of catalysts was evaluated on the Claisen-Schmidt reaction between acetophenone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde at atmospheric pressure and room temperature during 24 h.
The isomeric compounds (E)-2-nitrobenzaldehyde 3-nitrophenylhydrazone and (E)-3-nitrobenzaldehyde 2-nitrophenylhydrazone, both C 13 H 10 N 4 O 4 , are isomorphous and effectively isostructural, and in both, the molecules are disordered across centres of inversion in the space group P2 1 /c. The molecules are linked into complex chains of rings by NÐHÁ Á ÁO and CÐ HÁ Á ÁO hydrogen bonds. In the isomeric compound (E)-4-nitrobenzaldehyde 2-nitrophenylhydrazone, the fully ordered molecules are linked by NÐHÁ Á ÁO hydrogen bonds into centrosymmetric dimers.
The asymmetric aldol addition reaction is not only one of the most useful tools for the formation of carbon-carbon bonds in the stereocontrolled synthesis of chiral organic compounds, but also plays a key role in metabolic pathways. 1 Aldolase enzymes (or catalytic antibodies) are able to exert an exquisite control of the regio-and the stereoselectivity of the direct aldol reaction, 2, 3 and much effort has been devoted to the development of purely chemical catalytic asymmetric versions of this fundamental process .1,4-7 Arguably the most important recent achievement in this area was the pioneering finding by List, Barbas III and coworkers, in 2000, [8] [9] [10] of the ability of proline to catalyze the direct intermolecular aldol reaction of acetone with aromatic and aliphatic aldehydes in high yields and with up to more than 99% ee. Since then, the asymmetric organic catalysis of the aldol reaction has become an actively pursued area of research. 5, 6, [11] [12] [13] [14] [15] [16] In contrast with proline, acyclic amino acids were initially considered to be poor catalysts for intermolecular enantioselective aldol reactions, since in the conditions used for the proline-catalyzed reactions (pure DMSO as a solvent at r.t.), less than 10% yields of aldol adducts were obtained. 9 However, in 2005 both Amedjkouh 17 and the Córdova group 18, 19 reported independently that, in aqueous DMSO, several unmodified acyclic amino acids (especially L-valine and L-alanine) were able to catalyze the direct catalytic asymmetric intermolecular aldol reaction with good yields and enantioselectivities. Also in 2005, Tsogoeva disclosed the use of L-histidine-based dipeptides (in dry DMSO) as catalysts for the aldol reaction. 20 Subsequent work by other groups has shown that the reaction medium is crucial in determining the catalytic efficiency of acyclic amino acids in aldol reactions. A systematic study of the twenty proteinogenic amino acids in the aldol reaction between cyclohexanone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde in DMSO and in aqueous DMSO was performed by Hayashi and co-workers. A positive water effect on the diastereoselectivity was observed for most amino acids, while the enantioselectivity was increased only when proline, serine or histidine were used. 21 In pure water tryptophan appears to be the best catalyst, 22 although in the presence of 2,4-dinitrophenol isoleucine was the most effective one. 23 Interestingly enough, both in aqueous micelles 24 and in ionic liquids 25 arginine showed a high catalytic efficiency, even if in the first case the enantiomeric excesses of the aldol products were rather low.
where n = 1 -9 for x = 1 with X = Glu or Asp, have been observed in the gas phase. 43 Theoretical DFT calculations (including the effect of water as a solvent) indicate that the preferred arrangements of Arg / amino acid pairs are those where it is possible to establish guanidinium-carboxylate bridges like that of Figure 1 . The strongest interactions (ΔE = -35.6 kcal mol -1 ) are with the carboxylate group of Glu. 44 In fact, it has been shown that the well-known property of equimolar, relatively concentrated Arg/Glu aqueous solutions of enhancing the solubility of poorly soluble proteins up to 4-8 times 45 is due to the formation of a structured, hydrogen-bonded molecular polyelectrolyte mixture. 46, 47 Bearing these precedents in mind, set out to study the catalytic properties of Arg/Glu mixtures, taking as a benchmark reaction the aldol addition of cyclohexanone (1) to 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (2), as a promising system for the observation of cooperative effects between two different α-amino acids in the catalysis of the aldol reaction.
Control experiments. Initially, the Mannich reaction of cyclohexanone, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and aniline was used as a model reaction. We found that SGP was able to catalyse the model reaction in MeCN in the presence of water, which gave the product in a moderate yield of 66% with a good enantioselectivity of 82% e.e. for the synisomer and 85:15 dr (syn:anti) (Table 1, entry 1). To verify the specific catalytic effect of SGP on the Mannich reaction, some control experiments were performed (Table 1, entries 2-12). In the absence of the enzyme, the Mannich product was only obtained in a yield of 28% (Table 1 , entry 2), indicating that SGP indeed had a catalytic effect on the Mannich reaction. To further confirm the effect of background and SGP on the reaction, we profiled both the blank reaction and the SGP-catalysed model Mannich reaction (for details, please see Supplementary  Tables S1-S2) . Next, the albumins from chicken egg white and from bovine serum were used separately in the 
The title compound, C 24 H 26 N 2 O 8 , was synthesized by the cycloaddition reaction of methyl 2-phenylacrylate, diethyl 2-aminomalonate and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde. The pyrrolidine ring exhibits an envelope conformation. The two benzene rings are located on opposite sides of the pyrrolidine ring and subtend a dihedral angle of 59.16 (14) . The crystal packing is stabilized by N-HÁ Á ÁO and weak C-HÁ Á ÁO hydrogen bonding. 
where  mn is the stability constant of the complex M m L n . Spectrophotometric titration is a common technique used for the determination of the stability constants  mn . Thus, such titration Figure 1 . This picture clearly shows that the complex stability is approximately linearly dependent on the extent of the inductive effect of the substituents appended to nitrogen atoms of the hydrazido group. This relationship can be described by the following regression equation (2) log Me). The value of this constant is probably small showing that this particular complex is not being formed. However, the predicted log  21 value for 3a is shown in Figure 1 . Although the alkyl substituents appended to nitrogen atoms are sterically different, the dependence is linear. This implies that steric effects do not play significant role in the formation of M 2 L complex. This is in accordance with the theoretically calculated spatial arrangement of the M 2 L complex as shown in Figure 2 . In this complex, two Cu 2+ ions are peripherally coordinated by the carbonyl oxygens and terminal nitrogens of the each hydrazido group. A dependence of the log  11 values (ML complex) on the substituent constants  i is shown in Figure 3 . In this case, the dependence is not linear any more. However, Figure 3 shows a clear trend within the series of tetra-alkylated carbohydrazides 4a-4e. The complex stability raises with the increasing donating ability of the appended alkyl substituents (similar to M 2 L), passes through the maxima, and subsequently decreases for bulkier substituents. This is most probably caused by the higher steric demands of the particular substituents (Pr, Bu, and Pe), which hinder formation of stable complex. This situation is even more pronounced for ligands 3a (R = Me) and 3b (R = t-Bu). Similarly, the steric effects affect the coordination ability of ligand 3c (R = -(CH 2 ) 5 -), which possesses the electron density of the coordinating atoms comparable to ligand 4c (R = Pr), but is formed by a rigid six-membered ring (piperidine). From these observations we can deduce that the formation of ML complex is significantly affected by both electronic and steric effects. This is in accordance with the calculated structure of the ML complex as shown in Figure 2 . In this complex, one Cu 2+ ion is centrally coordinated by the two terminal nitrogens of the hydrazido groups. Moreover, in this case other coordinating ligands such as methanol (solvent) may sterically affect the formation of the ML complex. Starting from (R,R)-tartaric acid, we have synthesized the diester 1 and dicarbohydrazide 2. Both intermediates were used for the construction of N-and N,N-(di)-alkylated dicarbohydrazides 3 and 4. Whereas the synthesis of compounds 3 involved the reaction of diester 1 with N-alkyl hydrazines (R = Me, Bu, -(CH 2 ) 5 -), derivatives 4 were synthesized by tetra-fold N-alkylation of dicarbohydrazide 2 (R = Me, Et, Pr, Bu, Pe). The reaction course of N-alkylation was strongly affected by the length of the used alkyl iodides. All well-purified target compounds 3a-c and 4a-e were further used as model nitrogen ligands coordinating Cu 2+ ions and some important features were revealed. In general, both ligands 3 and 4 form two complex types with the ratio metal:ligand of 2:1 and 1:1. Whereas the formation of the M 2 L complex is linearly dependent on the increasing electron-donating nature of the appended alkyl substituents, the steric effects are engaged only negligible. On the other hand, the formation of ML complexes was affected by both electronic and steric effects. These observations are in accordance with the theoretical PM3/PM6 calculations of both complex types. Whereas M 2 L complex possesses two Cu 2+ ions coordinated peripherally to each carbohydrazide group, one Cu 2+ ion in the complex ML is bound centrally employing both dicarbohydrazide moieties. According to our previous studies, 6,10-11 we have attempted to employ Cu 2+ complexes of chiral ligands 3a-c and 4a-e as catalysts of the asymmetric Henry reaction. Using 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and nitromethane as reagents under standard condition, 6 the best results were achieved with ligand 3a (62% yield, 15% ee; R = Me). All other ligands provided the corresponding nitro-aldol but the enantiomeric excesses were almost zero. However, such behavior reflects the above discussed complexation ability. Compared to our previous TADDOL-like derivatives, 12 the stability constants of ligands 3 and 4 with Cu 2+ ions are generally lower. Considering ML type of the complex as an active catalyst of the Henry reaction, the stability constants of M 2 L complexes of 3-4 are higher (Table 2 ). It is anticipated that in the M 2 L complex, the asymmetric induction will be generally lower. Moreover, the investigation of ML complexes ( Figure 3) showed clearly a steric repulsion caused by the increasing alkyl chain length. Hence, only the ligand 3a which feature very low log  21 value (see Figure 1 ) and less sterically demanding methyl substituent showed some asymmetric induction.
Supramolecular templating of mesoporous inorganics with structure-directing agents (SDAs) is considered to be one of the most impactful discoveries in materials synthesis in recent decades. 1 In particular, this general approach has enabled the synthesis of mesoporous silica materials featuring high surface areas, tunable mesopore sizes in the 2 -15 nm range, and ordered morphologies. [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] A variety of SDAs and syntheses have been exploited to achieve control over the physical properties of the mesoporous silicas; however, the resulting materials are rarely applied in the pure phase. Indeed, chemical tailoring of their surfaces is required for use in catalysis achieving control over their spatial arrangement. [28] [29] [30] [31] One of the key motivating factors that drove these efforts was to induce cooperativity in complex catalyst architectures. For example, MCM-41-type silica functionalized with both acidic (ureidopropyl) and basic ([2-(2-aminoethylamino)ethylamino]-propyl) groups, which are mutually incompatible in solution, showed higher catalytic performance in reactions involving carbonyl activation than the silicas monofunctionalized with the corresponding acidic or basic groups, and their physical mixtures. 32 Similarly, cooperative reactivity in the aldol condensation of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and acetone has been achieved by immobilizing both acidic (2-(4-sulfonylphenl)ethyl) and basic (aminopropyl) groups on SBA-15 silica. 33 The cooperative catalysis is not limited to acid/base pairs; adding a second type of acidic group (mercaptopropyl) to 4-ethylbenzensulfonic acid on SBA-15-type silica accelerated the condensation reaction between acetone and phenol, and shifted the regioselectivity toward the formation of p,p'-bisphenol isomer over the o,p'-bisphenol isomer. 34 The introduction of secondary hydrophobic groups (phenyl or allyl) to SBA-15-based catalyst for esterification of fatty acids improved its performance by creating a hydrophobic environment that excluded the reaction byproduct (water) from the pores. 35 The observed reactivity enhancements showed a strong dependence on the incorporation method of those functionalities (post-synthesis grafting and co-condensation were used), implying the importance of their spatial arrangement. Similarly, a combination of co-condensation and grafting may allow for preferential functionalization of the exterior or interior surfaces of mesoporous silica nanoparticles, e.g., to achieve the so-called gatekeeping effect. 36 In the case of monofunctional materials, site isolation also can play an important role in catalysis; among the strategies proposed to control the spacing between functional groups are molecular patterning 37 and the use of solvents with different polarity. 38 Whereas the chemical identities and overall concentrations of organic functionalities can be assessed using a variety of analytical techniques, understanding their spatial distribution is very challenging. This derives from the fact that the studies on the uniformity of surface functionalization necessitate quantitative analysis of interactions between adjacent molecules such that, e.g., uniform and agglomerated organizations of molecules on monofunctionalized surface (see Figure 1a) can be explicitly differentiated. Similarly, the ability to discriminate between random, mixed-agglomerated and segregated distributions of species present in multifunctionalized mesoporous silicas ( Figure 1b ) is needed to guide the synthetic efforts and to foster new applications, e.g. in cooperative catalysis. The long-standing challenge of explaining the intermolecular order on surfaces of amorphous materials can now be faced using solid-state nuclear magnetic resonance (SSNMR). This is largely attributable to the emergence of dynamic nuclear polarization (DNP), 39 which directly addresses NMR's Achilles heel-its inherently low sensitivity. In short, DNP provides a boost to SSNMR response by exciting the highly polarizable unpaired electrons at their paramagnetic resonance frequency and transferring this polarization to 1 H and other nuclei. High-field DNP currently offers extraordinary savings of experimental time, of several orders of magnitude, which has revolutionized the studies of surfaces and interfaces. [40] [41] [42] [43] [44] In addition, the development of SSNMR probes capable magic angle spinning (MAS) at stunningly high rates of up to 120 kHz has afforded an improvement of resolution, and enabled exploitation of methods hitherto practiced exclusively in solution state NMR. [45] [46] As a result of these developments, conventional and DNP-enhanced SSNMR methods can now be used for determination of the three-dimensional (3D) positioning of reacting and nonreacting components of catalytic systems with atomic-scale precision.
Abstract We have determined the substrate specificity of a mouse aldo–keto reductase (AKR) AKR7A5, an enzyme that is similar to rat aflatoxin aldehyde reductase (AKR7A1) and to human brain succinic semialdehyde reductase (AKR7A2). Previously, we have shown that the mouse enzyme is present in a range of tissues including liver, kidney, testis and brain, and is able to reduce several carbonyl compounds, including succinic semialdehyde, 2-carboxybenzaldehyde, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and 9,10-phenanthrenequinone [FEBS Lett. 523 (2002) 213]. It has been suggested that it may represent the mouse equivalent of human succinic semialdehyde reductase which is responsible for the biosynthesis of gamma-hydroxybutyrate. In this study, we show that the enzyme is also able to reduce other aromatic aldehydes such as 4-chloro-3-nitrobenzaldehyde, and 3-nitrobenzaldehyde, and has particular high specific activity towards dicarbonyls such as acenapthenequinone, 2,3-bornanedione (camphorquinone), and phenylglyoxal. It has low specific activity towards ketones, and α,β-unsaturated carbonyls such as acrolein and 4-hydroxynonal. The enzyme is inhibited by several compounds including quercitin, ethacrynic acid, indomethacin and sodium valproate. Developing selective inhibitors may lead to a means of modifying the activity of the enzyme in vivo.
Abstract Two novel C 60 –proline hybrids 1 and 2 were synthesized in which the active proline unit is located either in close proximity to C 60 or away from the fullerene sphere. The synthesis of 1 and 2 was achieved by condensation reactions of the fulleropyrrolidines formed upon the 1,3-dipolar cycloaddition reaction of in-situ generated azomethineylides onto C 60 with proline derivatives. The catalytic activity of 1 and 2 in typical aldol reactions between acetone or cyclohexanone and 2- or 4-nitrobenzaldehyde in terms of yield and enantioselectivity was evaluated. The effect of solvent, the organocatalyst loading as well as the amount of base added were examined.
Papain was first used as the catalyst for the synthesis of 5-benzylidene rhodanine derivative through the condensation reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and rhodanine. The result showed that the yield could be up to 86% by optimizing the reaction conditions.
Herein, we present the successful synthesis, characterization and sensing application of a hydrazine functionalized Zr(IV)-based UiO-66 metal–organic framework (MOF) called Zr-UiO-66-N2H3 (1). The guest-free material 1′ shows selective and sensitive fluorimetric detection (turn-on mechanism) of phosphate (PO43−) anions in HEPES buffer (10 mM, pH = 7.4) and aqueous medium. It can also fluorimetrically detect (turn-off mechanism) 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (4-NB) in a HEPES : DMSO (9 : 1, v/v) medium with high selectivity and sensitivity. The selectivity for both analytes is retained in the presence of other potentially competitive analytes. The detection limit for PO43− ions is 0.196 μM, which is far below the PO43− level present in the aqueous environment. MOF 1′ can detect intracellular phosphate and it also has the capacity to exhibit differences in the intracellular phosphate level. Furthermore, the probe is capable of sensing PO43− ions in real samples such as tap water, lake water, human urine and human blood serum. The sensitivity of the probe for sensing 4-NB is very high (detection limit = 4.7 μM). The possible mechanisms for sensing PO43− ions and 4-NB have been explored in detail by experimental techniques.
The aldol reaction between acetone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde run in the nominal absence of any enantioselective catalyst was monitored by chiral HPLC with the aid of an internal standard. The collected data show the presence of a detectable initial enantiomeric excess of the aldol product in the early stages of the reaction in about 50 % of the experiments. Only a small fraction of the reaction contained the non-racemic aldol product after 24 h. This temporary emergence of natural optical activity could be the signature of a coupled reaction network that leads to a spontaneous mirror-symmetry-breaking process, which originates at very low conversions (i.e., strongly depends on events taking place at the very first stages of the process). The reaction is not autocatalytic in the aldol product, which rules out a simple Frank-type reaction network as the source of the observed symmetry breaking. On the other hand, the isolation and characterisation of a double-aldol adduct suggested a reaction network that involved both indirect autocatalysis and indirect mutual inhibition between the enantiomers of the reaction product.
A novel 4-nitrotoluene-degrading bacterial strain was isolated from pesticides contaminated effluent-sediment and identified as Rhodococcus pyridinivorans NT2 based on morphological and biochemical properties and 16S rDNA sequencing. The strain NT2 degraded 4-NT (400 mg l−1) with rapid growth at the end of 120 h, reduced surface tension of the media from 71 to 29 mN m−1 and produced glycolipidic biosurfactants (45 mg l−1). The biosurfactant was purified and characterized as trehalose lipids. The biosurfactant was stable in high salinity (10 % w/v NaCl), elevated temperatures (120 °C for 15 min) and a wide pH range (2.0–10.0). The noticeable changes during biodegradation were decreased hydrophobicity; an increase in degree of fatty acid saturation, saturated/unsaturated ratio and cyclopropane fatty acid. Biodegradation of 4-NT was accompanied by the accumulation of ammonium (NH4 +) and negligible amount of nitrite ion (NO2 −). Product stoichiometry showed a carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) mass balance of 37 and 35 %, respectively. Biodegradation of 4-NT proceeded by oxidation at the methyl group to form 4-nitrobenzoate, followed by reduction and hydrolytic deamination yielding protocatechuate, which was metabolized through β-ketoadipate pathway. In vitro and in vivo acute toxicity assays in adult rat (Rattus norvegicus) showed sequential detoxification and the order of toxicity was 4-NT >4-nitrobenzyl alcohol >4-nitrobenzaldehyde >4-nitrobenzoate >> protocatechuate. Taken together, the strain NT2 could be used as a potential bioaugmentation candidate for the bioremediation of contaminated sites.
Lewis basic DABCO-functionalized 3D-like metal-organic framework, Zn-MOF, catalyzes nitroaldol (Henry) reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with nitroalkanes in a size-dependent manner. Small nitroalkanes give rise to higher conversion than larger ones. This MOF-based heterogeneous catalyst is very robust and can be recycled several times without losing its activity.
Abstract We report the first femtosecond time-resolved photoelectron spectroscopy study of 2-, 3- and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (NBA) and nitrobenzene (NBE) in the gas phase upon excitation at 200 nm. In 3- and 4-NBA, the dynamics follow fast intersystem crossing within 1–2 picoseconds. In 2-NBA and NBE, the dynamics are faster ( ∼ 0.5 ps). 2-NBA undergoes hydrogen transfer similar to solution phase dynamics. NBE either releases NO 2 in the excited state or converts internally back to the ground state. We discuss why these channels are suppressed in the other nitrobenzaldehydes.
The compounds 3-hydroxy-4-nitrobenzaldehyde and 3-hydroxy-4-nitrobenzyl alcohol are introduced as new chromophoric substrates for probing the catalytic mechanism of horse liver alcohol dehydrogenase (LADH). Ionization of the phenolic hydroxyl group shifts the spectrum of the aldehyde from 360 to 433 nm (pKa = 6.0), whereas the spectrum of the alcohol shifts from 350 to 417 nm (pKa = 6.9). Rapid-scanning, stopped-flow (RSSF) studies at alkaline pH show that the LADH-catalyzed interconversion of these compounds occurs via the formation of an enzyme-bound intermediate with a blue-shifted spectrum. When reaction is limited to a single turnover of enzyme sites, the formation and decay of the intermediate when aldehyde reacts with enzyme-bound reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide E(NADH) are characterized by two relaxations (lambda f approximately equal to 3 lambda s). Detailed stopped-flow kinetic studies were carried out to investigate the disappearance of aldehyde and NADH, the formation and decay of the intermediate, the displacement of Auramine O by substrate, and 2H kinetic isotope effects. It was found that NADH oxidation takes place at the rate of the slower relaxation (lambda s); when NADD is substituted for NADH, lambda s is subject to a small primary isotope effect (lambda Hs/lambda Ds = 2.0); and the events that occur in lambda s precede lambda f. These findings identify the intermediate as a ternary complex containing bound oxidized nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) and some form of 3-hydroxy-4-nitrobenzyl alcohol. The blue-shifted spectrum of the intermediate strongly implies a structure wherein the phenolic hydroxyl is neutral. When constrained to a mechanism that assumes only the neutral phenolic form of the substrate binds and reacts and that the intermediate is an E(NAD+, product) complex, computer simulations yield RSSF and single-wavelength time courses that are qualitatively and semiquantitatively consistent with the experimental data. We conclude that the LADH substrate site can be divided into two subsites: a highly polar, electropositive subsite in the vicinity of the active-site zinc and, just a few angstroms away, a rather nonpolar region. The polar subsite promotes formation of the two interconverting reactive ternary complexes. The nonpolar region is the binding site for the hydrocarbon-like side chains of substrates and in the case of 3-hydroxy-4-nitrobenzaldehyde conveys specificity for the neutral form of the phenolic group.
Arabinose (99%), 4-nitrobenzonitrile (97%), 4-aminobenzonitrile (98%), 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (99%), orthoaminoacetophenone (98%), ethyl-4-nitrobenzoate (98%), 1-iodo-4-nitrobenzene (98%), 4-iodoaniline (98%), 4-aminostyrene (98%), nitroethane (99%), ethylamine (70%), 4-nitroacetophenone (98%), and 4-aminoacetophenone (99%) were purchased from Alfa Aesar. PdCl 2 (99.5%) was obtained from Jinke Chemical Reagent Shenyang Co., Ltd, China. Hydroxyacetic acid (95%), 4-nitrophenylacetylene (97%), and 4-ethynylaniline (97%) were provided by Ark. Glucose (99%), formic acid (99%), 4-chloronitrobenzene (99%), 4-chloroaniline (99%), aniline (99%) and benzaldehyde (98%) were supplied by J&K Scientific Co., Ltd. Erythrose (75%) was provided by Aladdin. Deuterium oxide (99.9%) was offered by Beijing InnoChem Science & Technology Co., Ltd. TiO 2 , acetophenone (98%), ortho-nitroacetophenone (95%), metanitroacetophenone (98%), ethyl-4-aminobenzoate (98%), 1-phenylethanol (97%) and benzyl alcohol (97%)
DFT-B3LYP calculations were carried out to study the enantioselectivity of the (S)-4-hydroxylproline-catalyzed direct aldol reaction between acetone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde. Four transition structures associated with the stereo-controlling step of the reaction have been determined. They are corresponding to the anti and syn arrangements of the methylene moiety related to the carboxylic acid group in enamine intermediate and the si and re attacks to the aldehyde carbonyl carbon. The effect of DMSO solvent on the stereo-controlling step was investigated with polarized continuum model (PCM). The computed energies of the transition states reveal the moderate enantioselectivity of the reaction.
The condensation product of Meldrum's acid and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde reacts smoothly with alkyl isocyanides in the presence of alcohols to produce dialkyl 2-[1-p-nitrophenyl-2-(alkylamino)-2-oxoethyl]malonates in excellent yield. This reaction provides a useful synthetic route to highly functionalized amidodiesters.
Azulene has been shown to react with pyrrole and a series of aromatic aldehydes in the presence of boron trifluoride etherate to give meso-tetraarylazuliporphyrins 6. Good yields of azuliporphyrins were obtained for benzaldehyde, 4-chlorobenzaldehyde, 4-bromobenzaldehyde, and 4-iodobenzaldehyde, and under dilute conditions p-tolualdehyde gave respectable yields. In each case, substantial amounts of meso-tetraarylporphyrins were also formed and a minor fraction of carbaporphyrin by-products could be detected, but otherwise no other macrocyclic products could be identified. 4-Nitrobenzaldehyde gave relatively poor yields of the corresponding azuliporphyrin, while p-anisaldehyde only gave trace amounts of product. Pentafluorobenzaldehyde gave variable results, although in this case a large number of additional by-products were identified including N-fused pentaphyrin, hexaphyrin, and higher order porphyrinoids, but no expanded azulene-containing macrocycles could be detected. Azuliporphyrins undergo reversible nucleophilic substitution on the seven-membered ring with pyrrolidine, benzenethiol, hydrazine, or benzylamine to give carbaporphyrin adducts. This property appears to facilitate an oxidative ring contraction of azuliporphyrins 6 with tert-butyl hydroperoxide in the presence of potassium hydroxide to produce mixtures of benzocarbaporphyrins 19 and 20. Tetraaryl-benzocarbaporphyrins exhibit slightly reduced diatropic ring currents compared to their meso-unsubstituted counterparts, although their UV/Vis spectra are very porphyrin-like and exhibit strong Soret bands near 450 nm. The benzocarbaporphyrins undergo reversible protonation to give monocationic and dicationic species. The latter involves C-protonation to generate an internal CH2 within the macrocyclic cavity. X-ray crystallography of tetraphenylbenzocarbaporphyrin 19a confirms that the preferred tautomer has the two NHs on either side of the indene subunit, in agreement with previous theoretical and spectroscopic studies. In addition, the presence of phenyl substituents at the 5,20-positions was found to tilt the indene moiety substantially by 27.4(1)° relative to the [18]annulene substructure. (© Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, 69451 Weinheim, Germany, 2003)
The asymmetric direct aldol reactions of aliphatic ketones (acetone, butanone, and cyclohexanone) with 4-nitrobenzaldehyde catalyzed by a chiral primary–tertiary diamine catalyst (trans-N,N-dimethyl diaminocyclohexane) have been investigated by performing density functional theory calculations to rationalize the experimentally observed stereoselectivities. Focused on the crucial C–C bond-forming steps, we located several low-lying transition states and predicted their relative stabilities. The calculated results demonstrate that the catalytic direct aldol reactions of acetone favors the (S)-enantiomer and that butanone prefers the branched syn-selective product, while cyclohexanone yields predominantly the opposite anti-selective product. The theoretical results are in good agreement with the experimental findings and provide a reasonable explanation for the high enantioselectivity and diastereoselectivity, as well as regioselectivity, of the aldol reactions under consideration.
Abstract 1. 1. Comparison of structure-inhibition relationships and kinetic data between the N -{[(4-benzoylamino) phenyl]sulfonyl}amino acids (BAPS-amino acids) and phenylsulfonylamino acids (PS-amino acids) suggests that the additional benzoyl moiety present in the BAPS-amino acids enhances inhibition by direct interaction with aldose reductase (EC 1.1.1.21) without altering the mode of interaction with the enzyme. 2. 2. Also the 2-, 3- and 4-nitro regioisomers of BAPS-glycine (NBAPSG) display parallel structureinhibition relationships with the 2-, 3- and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde substrates and the 2-, 3- and 4-nitroacetophenone competitive inhibitors. 3. 3. Competition studies and multiple inhibition analyses demonstrate that the 4-nitrobenzoyl group of 4. 4-NBAPSG binds at the substrate site of aldose reductase, while the PS-glycine moiety of 4-NBAPSG binds cooperatively at a distinct site.
Abstract A novel schiff base derivative containing 1, 2, 4-triazole moiety (NBTMPA) has been synthesized from 4- [1, 2, 4] triazol-1-ylmethyl-phenylamine and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde in the presence of glacial acetic acid in an ethanolic medium. The absorbance and fluorescence spectra of (4-nitro-benzylidene)-(4- [1, 2, 4] triazol-1-ylmethyl-phenyl)-amine (NBTMPA) were recorded in various solvents to investigate their solvatochromic behaviour. Dipole moments of the two electronic states of NBTMPA were calculated from solvatochromic spectral shifts. These were correlated with the refractive index (n) and dielectric constant (e) of various solvents. Theoretical calculations were performed to estimate the excited state dipole moment on the basis of different solvent correlation methods, like the Bilot–Kawski, Bakhshiev, Lippert–Mataga, Kawski–Chamma–Viallet and Reichardt methods. The dipole moment in the excited state was found to be higher than that in the ground state due to a substantial redistribution of electron densities and charges. Using a multiple regression analysis, the solvent–solute interactions were determined by means of Kamlet Taft parameters (α, β, π*). Computational studies were performed by Gaussian 09 W software using a time-dependent density functional theory (TDDFT) in order to calculate the atomic charges and frontier molecular orbital energies in the solvent phase. The calculations indicated that the dipole moment of the molecule in an excited state is much higher than that in a ground state. The chemical stability of NBTMPA was determined by means of chemical hardness (η) using HOMO–LUMO energies. The reactive centres in the molecule were also identified by molecular electrostatic potential (MESP) 3D plots as a result of a TDDFT computational analysis.
5-Formylindole (2) was synthesized in good overall yield starting from 3-methyl-4-nitrobenzaldehyde (4) by utilization of the Batcho-Leimgruber indole synthesis.
A highly purified NADP-linked 15-hydroxyprostaglandin (prostacyclin) dehydrogenase has been isolated from rabbit kidney. This enzyme has a molecular weight of 56,000-62,000 and is composed of two subunits which are presumably identical. It is not a flavoprotein. Fluorometric titrations with NADPH revealed that the cofactor was bound to the free enzyme with a dissociation constant of 0.04 microM. The results of kinetic studies were compatible with either a random mechanism or an ordered mechanism with NADP binding first. Although this enzyme oxidizes prostacyclin more rapidly than any other prostaglandin, it reduces 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, phenanthrenequinone, and menadione more rapidly than it oxidizes prostacyclin.
This is the first report of a successful asymmetric aldol reaction of acetone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde catalyzed by only 0.01 mol % of proline tetrazole (5-pyrrolidin-2-yltetrazole). Amazingly, 3 mol % of water as an additive has significantly improved the efficiency of the aldol reaction in terms of yield and enantioselectivity, up to a 0.1-mol-scale production (up to 99 % isolated yield, 84 % ee).
The role of water and stereoselectivity in the direct syn-aldol reaction involving 3-pentanone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde catalyzed by amino acid derivatives on water has been investigated by density functional theory. Calculations indicate that the formation of intermediate enamine is the rate determining step via a three-step process with activation enthalpies of 50 kcal/mol in the gas phase and 21 kcal/mol in the presence of water. The subsequent nucleophilic addition of enamine to aldehyde is relatively easier with activation enthalpies below 10 kcal/mol both in the gas phase and in the presence of water. The diastereoselective formation of syn- and anti-aldol products results from the preferential formation of Z-enamine to E-enamine, kinetically and thermodynamically. The enantioselectivity of both syn- and anti-products is controlled by the steric repulsive interactions between the amino alcohol moiety of catalyst and the phenyl ring of aldehyde. Calculations show that water molecule can act as a proton shuttle in the proton-transport catalytic processes. The water-assisted proton-transfer is very efficient to reduce the activation barriers via protonation and deprotonation in the formation of C-N and C-C bonds, dehydration, and β-elimination processes by inhibiting the generation of zwitterionic transition states. The theoretical discoveries indicate that in the present proton-transport assistance, the amino alcohol moiety of the catalyst plays a critical role as hydrogen bond donor to anchor substrates with carbonyl group close to the amine or enamine moiety so that the water molecule can bridge the NH of amine and the oxygen of carbonyl by hydrogen bonding interaction around the reactive site to activate the reactants and promote the reaction effectively.
A highly sensitive and specific monoclonal antibody was prepared to detect semicarbazide (SEM). Hapten 4-{[(aminocarbonyl)hydrazono]methyl}benzoic acid (4-CPSEM) was synthesised through the condensation reactions of SEM and 4-carboxybenzaldehyde (4-CBA). The active ester method was employed to couple the hapten to bovine serum albumin, keyhole limpet hemocyanin and ovalbumin (OVA) to obtain conjugates of immunogens and coating antigens. A novel hapten 2-[(aminocarbonyl)hydrazono]acetic acid (SEM-A) was also synthesised from SEM and oxoacetic acid to prepare a heterologous coating antigen (SEM-A-OVA). The linear ranges of inhibition curves in the optimised indirect competitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (icELISA) method were in the range of 0.0071–0.056 ng mL−1 and 0.018–0.209 ng mL−1 for coating antigens SEM-A-OVA and 4-CPSEM-OVA, respectively. The IC50 was 0.019 ng mL−1 for SEM (SEM in the form of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde semicarbazone) and 0.13 ng mL−1 for 2-nitrobenzaldehyde semicarbazone, both of wh...
Several oxorhenium compounds in the formal oxidation states V and VII are examined as catalysts for the aldehyde-olefination starting from diazo compounds, phosphines, and aldehydes. Of these, [ReMeO2(eta2-alkyne)] complexes provide the simplest catalysts to study, although [ReOCl3(PPh3)2] still remains the most efficient rhenium catalyst for aldehyde-olefination described to date. Prior to the reaction with the Re catalysts the phosphine and the diazo compound react to form a phosphazine. No catalytic reaction occurs in cases where no phosphazine formation is observed. The first step of the catalytic cycle involves the formation of a carbene intermediate by the reaction of phosphazine and catalyst under extrusion of phosphine oxide and dinitrogen. In a second step the carbene reacts with aldehyde under olefin formation and catalyst regeneration. Excess of alkyne as well as the presence of ketones slows down the catalytic reaction. The olefination of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with diazomalonate is possible with these Re catalysts. In contrast, this reaction does not take place either in the classical Wittig fashion from Ph3P=C(CO2Et)2 and aldehyde or by use of all other catalysts for aldehyde olefination reactions reported to date. Catalytic ylide formation from diazo compounds seems therefore not to be the only pathway through which catalytic aldehyde-olefination reactions can proceed.
(2S)-N-2-[(R)-Hydroxy(phenyl)methyl]phenylpyrrolidine-2-carboxamide, (2 S)-N-{2-[(S)-hydroxy(phenyl)methyl]phenyl}pyrrolidine-2-carboxamide, and (S)-N-{2-[hydroxy-(diphenyl)methyl]phenyl}pyrrolidine-2-carboxamide were obtained and tested as catalysts for an asymmetric aldol reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde with acetone.
Density functional theory calculations were performed to study the stereo-controlling step of the direct aldol reaction between acetone and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde catalyzed by (S,S)-proline dipeptide. Four transition state structures have been determined using B3LYP functional with the 6-31G* basis set, corresponding to the anti and syn arrangements of the methylene moiety with respect to the carbonyl group in enamine intermediate, and to the si and re attacks to the aldehyde carbonyl carbon, respectively. Solvent effects of DMSO on the stereo-controlling step were investigated with Onsager model. The energy results of the transition states reveal the origin of poor enantioselectivity for the reaction. © 2007 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Int J Quantum Chem, 2008
AbstractA series of Cinchona alkaloids derived organocatalysts have been developed and evaluated in the direct asymmetric intermolecular aldol reaction of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde and cyclohexanone. The catalyzed reactions of various aldehydes and ketones gave the corresponding aldol products with moderate to high enantioselectivities (up to 92%) and diastereoselectivities (up to >99/1, anti/syn) in the presence of 3e in brine.Graphical Abstract[IMAGE]
Molecules of (E)-2-nitrobenzaldehyde 4-nitrophenylhydrazone, C13H10N4O4, exhibit a strongly polarized molecular-electronic structure. The molecules are linked into sheets of some complexity, where pairs of hydrogen bonds act co-operatively to generate two independent substructures, each in the form of a chain of rings. In the isomeric compound (E)-4-nitrobenzaldehyde 4-nitrophenylhydrazone, the molecules exhibit orientational disorder; an extensive series of hydrogen bonds links the molecules into a continuous three-dimensional framework, whose formation is independent of the disorder.
Molecules of (E)-2-nitrobenzaldehyde 4-nitrophenylhydrazone, C 13 H 10 N 4 O 4 , exhibit a strongly polarized molecular± electronic structure. The molecules are linked into sheets of some complexity, where pairs of hydrogen bonds act co-operatively to generate two independent substructures, each in the form of a chain of rings. In the isomeric compound (E)-4-nitrobenzaldehyde 4-nitrophenylhydrazone, the molecules exhibit orientational disorder; an extensive series of hydrogen bonds links the molecules into a continuous three-dimensional framework, whose formation is independent of the disorder.
We have recently reported the molecular and supramolecular structures of the three isomeric nitrobenzaldehyde hydrazones, all of which crystallized with the E con®guration (Glidewell et al., 2004a,b). In 2-nitrobenzaldehyde hydrazone, the molecules are linked by paired NÐHÁ Á ÁN hydrogen bonds into isolated R 2 2 (6) dimers; in 3-nitrobenzaldehyde hydrazone, a combination of one NÐHÁ Á ÁN hydrogen bond and one NÐ HÁ Á ÁO hydrogen bond links the molecules into a threedimensional framework structure; and in 4-nitrobenzaldehyde hydrazone, the molecules are linked into sheets of R 4 4 (26) rings by two independent NÐHÁ Á ÁO hydrogen bonds. Intrigued by the different combinations of hydrogen bonds utilized in these simple isomers and by the different supramolecular structures that result, no two of which are even of the same dimensionality, we have now investigated an analogous and closely related series of isomers, namely the 4-nitrophenylhydrazones of the isomeric nitrobenzaldehydes. We report here on two of these, viz. 2-nitrobenzaldehyde 4-nitrophenylhydrazone, (I), and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde 4-nitrophenylhydrazone, (II). Despite considerable effort, we have so far been unable to obtain any crystalline samples of 3-nitrobenzaldehyde 4-nitrophenylhydrazone that are suitable for single-crystal X-ray diffraction.
A chemical derivatization technique in time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectrometry (TOF-SIMS) has been developed to quantify the surface density of amine groups of plasma-polymerized ethylenediamine thin film deposited on a glass surface by inductively coupled plasma chemical vapor deposition. Chemical tags of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde or pentafluorobenzaldehyde were hybridized with the surface amine groups and were detected in TOF-SIMS spectra as characteristic molecular secondary ions. The surface amine density was controlled in a reproducible manner as a function of deposition plasma power and was also quantified using UV−visible spectroscopy. A good linear correlation was observed between the results of TOF-SIMS and UV−visible measurements as a function of plasma power. This shows that the chemical derivatization technique in TOF-SIMS analysis would be useful in quantifying the surface density of specific functional groups that exist on the organic surface.
Quantum mechanical calculations have been performed to study the stereoselectivities in the direct cross-aldol reactions of aldehydes catalyzed by simple chiral diamines. The detailed computational studies on the stereochemistry-controlling step of the subject reactions have been presented by DFT calculations at the B3LYP/6-31G* level. The poor agreement between the calculated and the observed diastereomeric ratio and enantiomeric excess values is obtained for all diamines catalysts. Further M06-2X calculations can provide a reasonable explanation for the observed syn-selectivities of the asymmetric cross-aldol reaction between propionaldehyde and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde.
4-Chlorobenzenesulfonyl chloride (0.01 mol) was added to glycine (0.02 mol) dissolved in an aqueous solution of potassium carbonate (0.06 mol, 50 ml). The reaction mixture was stirred at 373 K for 6 h, left overnight at room temperature, then filtered and treated with dilute hydrochloric acid. The solid N-(4-chlorobenzenesulfonyl)glycine (L1) obtained was crystallized from aqueous ethanol. Sulfuric acid (0.5 ml) was added to L1 (0.02 mol) dissolved in ethanol (30 ml) and the mixture was refluxed. The reaction mixture was monitored by TLC at regular intervals. After completion of the reaction, the reaction mixture was concentrated to remove the excess ethanol. The product, N-(4-chlorobenzenesulfonyl)glycine ethyl ester (L2) obtained was poured into water, neutralized with sodium bicarbonate and recrystallized from acetone. The pure L2 (0.01 mol) was then added in small portions to a stirred solution of 99% hydrazine hydrate (10 ml) in 30 ml ethanol and the mixture was refluxed for 6 h. After cooling to room temperature, the resulting precipitate was filtered, washed with cold water and dried to obtain N-(4-chlorobenzenesulfonyl)glycinyl hydrazide (L3). A mixture of L3 (0.01 mol) and 4-nitrobenzaldehyde (0.01 mol) in anhydrous methanol (30 ml) and two drops of glacial acetic acid was refluxed for 8h. After cooling, the precipitate was collected by vacuum filtration, washed with cold methanol and dried. It was recrystallized to a constant melting point from methanol (493-496 K).
