Fingerling rainbow trout (Salmo gairdneri) were exposed to 14C-labeled 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) for 8 h in a static exposure (0.018 mg/l) or for 35 d in a continuous-flow exposure (0.020 mg/l) followed by a subsequent elimination period. For the 2 d after the 8-h exposure, the half-time (t 1/2) of elimination of 14C from muscle and liver was 0.4 d, while after the 35-d exposure an early rapid elimination of 14C from these tissues (t 1/2 = 0.4 d) was followed by a slower elimination (t 1/2 = 50 d) during d 4-36. The maximum bioconcentration factors for 14C in muscle and liver were 51 and 102 after the 8-h exposure and 89 and 389 during the 35-d exposure. The values for bile were much greater, reaching 240 after the 8-h exposure and 1400 during the 35-d exposure. When larger trout and carp (Cyprinus carpio) were exposed to [14C] TCB (0.2-0.4 mg/l) the bioconcentration factor for bile 14C to water 14C was less than 100. Pretreatment of trout with beta-naphthoflavone, an inducer of hepatic mixed-function oxidase, increased this bioconcentration factor for bile to several hundred. Solvent partitioning and thin-layer chromatography (TLC) indicated that about 60% of the 14C in bile of control trout or carp was present as highly polar biotransformation products, while for induced trout the value was more than 90%. TLC in two solvent systems suggested that at least two such products were present in bile from control fish and at least three in bile from induced fish. About half of the 14C in bile from induced trout was more polar than the 14C in bile from normal trout.
A one-dimensional, steady-state mass balance model was applied to describe instream and sediment concentrations of four hydrophobic organic chemicals in a discharge canal and receiving water bayou. The chemicals examined were hexachlorobenzene, hexachlorobutadiene, hexachloroethane, and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. The objective of the study was to test a mass balance modeling approach for relating point source effluents to resulting sediment concentration, in support of future implementation of national sediment quality criteria (SQC). The modeling effort relied upon ambient monitoring data that were collected for purposes other than supporting a modeling effort. Given data uncertainties and assumptions in the modeling framework, model results were reasonably consistent with observations in the receiving water bayou. There were large discrepancies between model results and observed sediment concentrations in the discharge canal. These discrepancies are likely caused by an undocumented source of chemicals to the canal sediments, due to historical landfilling of wastes; and/or canal sediment concentrations being in temporal disequilibrium, due to historically higher chemical loading. The merits of steady-state versus time-variable models for describing sediment quality are compared. Steady-state models are most appropriate for effluent permitting purposes, where the objective is to determine the long-term relationship jbetween wastewater loads and resulting sediment concentrations. A time-variable model framework will be required to establish model credibility for situations where the steady-state assumption is violated, although the required information on historical chemical loads is often unavailable.
The wide though not ubiquitous distribution of chlorobenzene-dechlorinating bacteria in anaerobic sludge from German sewage plants is demonstrated. The model substrates 1,2,3- and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) were dechlorinated to dichlorobenzenes (DCBs) and monochlorobenzene (MCB) via distinct pathways. For easy visualization and differentiation of the pathways, a novel plotting method was developed. While many of the cultures showed a dechlorination pattern similar to that previously found for Dehalococcoides species, removing doubly flanked rather than singly flanked chlorine substituents from TCBs, some cultures formed 1,2-DCB from 1,2,3-TCB and/or 1,3-DCB from 1,2,4-TCB. Stable cultures preferentially catalyzing the removal of singly flanked chlorines were obtained by repeated subcultivation in sediment-free synthetic medium. This dechlorination pattern is potentially of great benefit for remediation as the accumulation of persistent intermediates such as 1,3,5-TCB from highly chlorinated compounds can be avoided. In addition, the cultures dechlorinated 1,3,5-TCB, pentachlorobenzene (PeCB), and hexachlorobenzene (HCB). Nested PCR demonstrated the presence of low numbers of Dehalococcoides species. However, the observed insensitivity of the dechlorinating bacteria in our cultures to oxygen and sensitivity to vancomycin is not in accordance with the reported properties of Dehalococcoides species, suggesting that other bacteria than Dehalococcoides catalyzed the removal of singly flanked chlorines from TCB.
Abstract This study measured the chemical uptake of three hydrophobic chemicals (1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB), 1,2,3,4,5-pentachlorobenzene (PeCB) and 2,2′,4,4′,6,6′-hexachlorobiphenyl (HCBP) with differing octanol-water partition coefficients (log K ow values of 3.95, 5.05 and 7.55, respectively) in juvenile rainbow trout ( Oncorhynchus mykiss ) after 2-day and 4-day aqueous exposures. Because of the affinity of hydrophobic compounds for dissolved organic carbon (DOC) and previous work demonstrating that fish gills take up these three hydrophobic chemicals, we predicted that chemical uptake into the fish would be lowered by the addition of humic acid to the water (1.54, 4.81 and 14.3 mg/l) compared with control fish (no humic acid added to the water). As predicted, humic acid concentrations of ≥4.81 mg/l significantly reduced the whole body concentrations of all three chemicals when compared with 1.54 mg/l humic acid. This effect of humic acid was greatest for HCBP, the chemical with the highest log K ow , such that chemical uptake was reduced by 3.4-fold for 14.3 mg/l humic acid compared with the control exposure. However, an unexpected finding was that, compared with the control exposure, the lowest concentration of humic acid tested (1.54 mg/l humic acid) significantly increased chemical uptake by up to 112% for the two chemicals with the lower log K ow , PeCB and 1,2,4-TCB, and did not affect uptake of the high log K ow chemical HCBP. We conclude that the ability of DOC to inhibit aqueous uptake of hydrophobic chemicals was dependent on both the concentration of DOC and the log K ow of the chemical, but that low humic acid concentrations of approximately 1.5 mg/l can significantly increase uptake of certain chemicals with a log K ow between 4 and 5.
The AlCl3 catalyzed reaction of 1,1-d2-1-chloropropane with benzene was carried out in excess benzene at about 5° or in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene as solvent at 0°. The products, n-propylbenzene and isopropylbenzene, were examined by nuclear magnetic resonance and mass spectrometry. The results indicated only very minor amounts of isotope position scrambling in the propyl side chain, suggesting no major involvement of protonated cyclopropane intermediates in the reaction. The mass spectral data, however, demonstrated that the products are quite labile in the reaction medium, with extensive intermolecular hydride and deuteride transfers taking place.
The rate of the bromine-exchange reaction of antimony tribromide with benzyl bromide in nitrobenzene or 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene has been measured, using Br-82 labelled antimony tribromide. The result of the study indicates that the exchange reaction is first order with respect to benzyl bromide, and either second or first order with respect to antimony tribromide depending on its concentrations. The second-order kinetics with respect to antimony tribromide have been observed at relatively high concentrations, and the first-order kinetics at lower concentrations. Reaction mechanisms are proposed for the exchange reaction.
The self-assembly of a series of hexadehydrotribenzo[12]annulene (DBA) derivatives has been scrutinized by scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) at the liquid−solid interface. First, the influence of core symmetry on the network structure was investigated by comparing the two-dimensional (2D) ordering of rhombic bisDBA 1a and triangular DBA 2a (Figure 1). BisDBA 1a forms a Kagome network upon physisorption from 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) onto highly oriented pyrolytic graphite (HOPG). Under similar experimental conditions, DBA 2a shows the formation of a honeycomb network. The core symmetry and location of alkyl substituents determine the network structure. The most remarkable feature of the DBA networks is the interdigitation of the nonpolar alkyl chains: they connect the π-conjugated cores and direct their orientation. As a result, 2D open networks with voids are formed. Second, the effect of alkyl chain length on the structure of DBA patterns was investigated. Upon increasing the length of the alkyl c...
Scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) and molecular mechanics calculations were used to investigate the long-range packing and the structure of an heptanuclear ruthenium (II) dendritic species, as a PF6- salt. STM imaging was carried out on a mono-add layer of the ruthenium dendrimer formed by physisorption from a 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene solution at the liquid-graphite interface. The packing of the molecules on the surface was visualised by the formation of ordered patterns and a distance of 27 +/- 2 A was measured between two adjacent lamellae. The comparison of this dimension with the molecular-modelling data indicates that the lamellae were formed by rows of dendrimer molecules in which the counterions (PF6-) were strongly associated with the Ru atoms. The images acquired with higher spatial resolution revealed the presence of repeating units within the lamellae. The comparison of the STM images with the modelling results allowed the attribution of the repeating units observed in the imaged pattern to the STM signature of single dendrimer molecules.
The presence of a mixture of unknown compounds in the reaction region of an ion mobility spectrometer presents a significant research challenge for ion mobility spectroscopists. Dealing with co-eluting peaks is difficult and assigning responses needs to be done with care. Failure to do this will lead to errors in assignment and quantitation. This paper is the second on this subject, [1], and studies the behaviour of dodecane and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene as they coelute from a GC column into an atmospheric pressure chemical ionisation source, in this case it was an UV unit but the findings apply equally to other ionisation approaches. The effect on peak shapes, resolution and sensitivity of the observed responses were characterised. Differential mobility spectrometry was used as the detection method and the use of programming the electric field strength was found to be a sensitive test for the detection and extraction of coleluting species.
Excess volumes (V E ) ultrasonic sound velocities (u), isentropic compressibilities (K s ) and viscosities (η) have been measured for the binary mixtures of dimethylsulphoxide (DMSO) with 1,2-dichlorobenzene, 1,3-dichlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, o-chlorotoluene, m-chlorotoluene, p-chlorotoluene, o-nitrotoluene and m-nitrotoluene at T=303.15 K. The measured V E values were positive over the cise composition and density data. Further, deviation in isentropic compressibility (ΔK s ) have been computed for the same systems from preentire composition range in all the binary mixtures. Isentropic compressibilities (K s ) have been computed for the same systems from precise sound velocity and density data, Further deviation in isentropic compressibility (ΔK s ) from ideal behaviour was also calculated. The viscosity data are analysed on the basis of corresponding states approach. Deviation in viscosities are positive over the entire composition range. The measured data is explained on the basis of intermolecular interactions between unlike molecules.
The procedure of aggregate-free poly(vinyl chloride) (PVC) solutions for size-exclusion chromatography (SEC) at room temperature using tetrahydrofuran (THF) as the mobile phase is proposed. PVC was dissolved in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) at 130 or 140°C for 6 h, precipitated in methanol, filtrated, and dried. The pretreated PVC was again dissolved in THF and SEC measurements were performed at room temperature. High molecular weight (MW) PVC required a higher pretreatment temperature of 140°C. The existence of aggregates sometimes could not be observed by a refractive index detector, but a light-scattering detector attached to the SEC columns could detect them clearly. The slope of the relationship between the MW and retention volume at the high MW region was steep compared with that at the other part of the peak and it was also a good indicator of the existence of aggregates. The pretreatment of PVC resulted in the decrease in MW averages, which was attributed to the disappearance of aggregates and not to the degradation of PVC. The pretreatment at 150°C resulted in the degradation of PVC. © 1998 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. J Appl Polym Sci 68: 1801–1809, 1998
Treatment of 2,3,7,8,12,13,17,18-octakis(ethylsulfanyl)-5,10,15,20-porphyrazine (H2OESPz) with CrCl2 in a 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene–n-BuOH mixture resulted in one ethylsulfanyl branch at the pyrrolic β positions of the macrocycle being replaced by an hydrogen atom with >40% yield. The structure of the asymmetric pyrrolic subunit and of the nearest pyrrolic subunits have been determined by NMR spectroscopy. The reaction path leading to the asymmetric porphyrazine implies the formation of a two-electron reduced diprotonated porphyrazine, [H2OESPz(−4)(2H+)], that, as a consequence of charge and structural intramolecular rearrangements at high temperature, undergoes nucleophilic substitution of an ethyl sulfide group by H−. UV-Vis and near-IR results suggest that the asymmetric substitution modifies the (sulfanyl)porphyrazine π and nSulfur levels. On the contrary, ESR spectroscopy shows that the electronic properties of the coordinated Cu2+ ion are affected only marginally. The half-waves of the ligand first reductive processes sensibly shift towards cathodic potentials in the asymmetric metal porphyrazines, but not in the asymmetric free-base porphyrazine, probably due to conflicting electronic and structural effects induced by removal of an ethylsulfanyl tail.
The radiolytic decompositions of low-concentration polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB) and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCBz) in a transformer oil have been studied using a 60Co gamma ray irradiation facility. Significant decompositions of PCB and TCBz were observed in the oil at tens of kGy absorbed dose without any additive. We derived the required dose for KC500 decomposition in transformer oil using a power function, which indicates that oil with lower PCB concentration needs less dose to treat PCB wastes. We also observed that the gamma radiolyses of PCB and TCBz did not affect each other; the decompositions of PCB and TCBz proceed independently. Both PCB concentration analysis and total chlorine mass concentration analysis indicated that most dechlorinated chlorine atoms react to generate other chlorine compounds in the oil. We found that the gamma radiolysis without additional compounds in the oil can be a useful way of reusing PCB-contaminated transformer oil.
The phase behavior of syndiotactic polystyrene in solvents with different qualities has been investigated. The concentration dependence of the melting points of the β- and δ-phases has been measured, and the experimental data have been used to construct the corresponding liquidi. The different solvents can therefore be classified in order of increasing solvent quality for polystyrene: decalin< 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene< o-xylene< 1,2-dichlorobenzene< chlorobenzene< chloroform. The stability of the β-phase increases with decreasing solvent quality. The opposite influence of this solvent quality is observed for the δ-phase
The present study attempts to clean up 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) vapor of the flue gas from the laboratory-scale bubbling reactor. Experiments were carried out to examine the effects of input TCB vapor concentration, pH of reaction medium, reaction temperature, and the other experimental conditions on TCB removal efficiency. The optimum experimental conditions for removing 1,2,4-TCB are that the ratio of NaClO2 /NaClO in complex absorbent is 2, reaction temperature is 50°C , and pH of reaction medium is 8. TCB removal efficiency above 90% was achieved under the optimized conditions. The reaction products were determined by gas chromatograph/mass spectrometer, as such, the reaction route was revealed, 4-methyl-1-pentanol and succinic acid are considered to be the major intermediate products.
Abstract The catalytic liquid phase chlorination of 1,2-dichlorobenzene (1,2-DCB) is investigated over a number of zeolite catalysts. Both K-L and K-beta are effective catalysts for the selective conversion of 1,2-DCB to 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB). The performance of zeolite K-L ( 1,2,4-TCB 1,2,3-TCB =6.2 ) is compared with that of conventional catalyst, FeCl3 ( 1,2,4- TCB 1,2,3-TCB =2.1 ). The selectivity for 1,2,4-TCB ( 1,2,4- TCB 1,2,3-TCB =15 ) is found to markedly increase when a combination of a co-catalyst (ClCH2COOH) and zeolite K-L is used. The IR spectra of K-L impregnated with ClCH2COOH show the transformation of some ClCH2COOH molecules into ZeolOH..OCCH2Cl; by reaction with K+-ions of the zeolite which creates steric hindrance in the zeolite channels and enhances the selectivity for 1,2,4-TCB. The rate of 1,2-DCB conversion catalysed by zeolite K-L at 428 K is about 49.1 mmol g−1h−1. For comparison, the rates of 1,2-DCB conversion catalysed by zeolite H·K-L and FeCl3 under identical conditions are estimated to be 63.3 and 61.7 mmol g−1 h−1, respectively. Acidic H·K-L is found to be more active but poorly selective compared to basic K-L. The reaction temperature, catalyst concentration and ratio of ClCH2COOH/catalyst are the important parameters for controlling catalyst activity. The rate of 1,2-DCB conversion and product yields increase with the increase in reaction temperature (up to 418 K) and catalyst concentration, whereas both decrease monotonically with the increase in ClCH2COOH/catalyst ratio. HCl treated zeolite K-L shows a lower activity than the untreated K-L. The zeolite K-L is recycled four times without the loss of 1,2,4- TCB 1,2,3-TCB isomer ratio but with a decline in trichlorobenzene catalytic activity resulting from a minor dealumination and K+-exchange of zeolite K-L with HCl (produced in the reaction). A reaction path is proposed in which chlorine gas (Cl2) is first polarised (Clδ+ xh Clδ−) by the zeolite catalyst. Thus the generated electrophile (Cl+) attacks the ring of 1,2-DCB resulting in the formation of trichlorobenzenes.
In summary, a review of the recent achievements in largescale OPVs (mainly based on P3HT : PCBM BHJ structures) by spray coating technology, has identified several important parameters such as nozzle-substrate distance, choice of solvent, mixture of cosolvent that influence morphology optimization. Using these parameters in this work, we have explored the possibility of fabricating solar cell devices by a hand-held airbrush with an active layer composed of a new low band gap copolymer poly[(4,8-bis(1-pentylhexyloxy)benzo[1,2-b : 4,5-b ]dithiophene-2,6-diyl-alt-2,1,3-benzothiadiazole-4,7-diyl] and phenyl-C 61 -butyric acid methyl ester (PC 61 BM). 1,2-Dichlorobenzene is shown as an appropriate carrier solvent by comparing the solar cell performance with other two solvents (chlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene) under identical conditions, and we obtain a promising PCE∼ 3.00% on average without any special treatment under room temperature conditions. We believe these results may give some guidance to spray approaches in this class of donor acceptor polymers.
Salicyl-o-toluide ::: ::: ::: ::: reactant: 42.8 g. (0.2 mole) of phenyl salicylate ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: solvent: 60 g. of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: solvent: 75 ml. of ligroin ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: product: salicyl-o-toluide ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: product: Salicylanilide ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: Keywords: ::: ::: replacement reactions, alkoxy by amino
The halogenated benzenes, inducers of xenobiotic metabolism, were studied for their effects on the metabolism of malathion, malaoxon, and paraoxon and on the toxicity and lethality of these organophosphorus insecticides and parathion. One millimole per kilogram of 1,4-dichlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, 1,4-dibromobenzene, 1,2,4-tribromobenzene, or hexabromobenzene or 0.1 mmol/kg hexachlorobenzene was administered po to male mice daily for 7 days. In general, the trihalogenated benzenes increased the LD50 of all four insecticides two- to sixfold. These increases were larger than those observed with the di- or hexahalogenated isomers. The bromine-substituted benzenes were usually more active than the chlorinated ones with the exception being hexabromobenzene. There was a good correlation between their effects on lethality and increases in in vitro carboxylesterase activity with either malathion or malaoxon as the substrate. The trihalogenated benzenes decreased the inhibitory effect of malathion on cholinesterase activity in the brain and to a lesser degree in the red blood cells, but not in liver or plasma. There was also a good correlation between protection against parathion and paraoxon lethality, protection against inhibition of cholinesterase in the brain and liver by paraoxon, and increases in the dearylation of paraoxon by microsomal mixed-function oxidases but not by hepatic or plasma esterases. It appears that the halogenated benzenes are able to protect against organophosphorus insecticide toxicity. With malathion increases in carboxylesterase activity may be important, and with paraoxon increases in microsomal mixed-function oxidase dearylation may play a role. Other changes such as in dealkylation and tissue binding cannot be excluded from contributing to the protection seen.
Abstract Di- and tri-halobenzenes undergo ipso -substitution on reaction with benzyl radicals, generated by thermolysis of dibenzyl mercury, to give halo- and dihalo-diphenylmethanes respectively. The relative reactivities of the dihalobenzenes and of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene are consistent with the reactions proceeding via a transition state with significant charge transfer character to give cyclohexadienyl radicals.
Chlorinated benzenes are common groundwater contaminants in the United States, so demonstrating whether they undergo degradation in the subsurface is important in determining the best remedy for this contamination. The purpose of this work was to use a new data mining approach to investigate chlorinated benzene degradation pathways in the subsurface. Positive Matrix Factorization (PMF) was used to analyze long-term measurements of chlorinated benzene concentrations in groundwater at a contaminated site in New Jersey. A dataset containing 597 groundwater samples and 5 chlorinated benzenes and benzene collected from 144 wells over 20 years was investigated using PMF2 software. Despite the heterogeneity of this dataset, PMF analysis revealed patterns indicative of microbial dechlorination in the groundwater and provided insight about where dechlorination is occurring, to what extent, and under which geochemical conditions. PMF resolved a factor indicative of a source of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and 1,2-dichlorobenzene and two factors representing stages of dechlorination, one more advanced than the other. The PMF results indicated that virtually all of the 1,2-dichlorobenzene at the site arises from its use onsite, not from the dechlorination of trichlorobenzenes. Factors were further interpreted using ancillary data such as geochemical indicators and field parameters also measured in the samples. Analysis suggested that the partial and advanced dechlorination signals occur under different subsurface physical conditions. The results provided field validation of the current understanding of anaerobic dechlorination of chlorinated benzenes in the subsurface developed from laboratory studies. PMF is thereby shown to be a useful tool for investigating chlorinated benzene dechlorination.
Propylene was copolymerized with the linear α-olefins 1-octene, 1-decene, 1-tetradecene, and 1-octadecene. The metallocene catalyst Me2Si(2-MeBenz[e]Ind)2ZrCl2, in conjunction with methylalumoxane as a cocatalyst, was used to synthesize the copolymers. The copolymers were characterized by 13C and 1H NMR with a solvent mixture of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) and benzene-d6 (9/1) at 100 °C. Thermal analyses were carried out to determine the melting and crystallization temperatures, whereas the molecular weights and molecular weight distributions were determined by gel permeation chromatography with TCB at 140 °C. Glass-transition temperatures were determined with dynamic mechanical analysis. Relationships among the comonomer type and amount of incorporation and the melting/crystallization temperatures, glass-transition temperature, crystallinity, and molecular weight were established. Moreover, up to 3.5% of the comonomer was incorporated, and there was a decrease in the molecular weight with increased comonomer content. Also, the melting and crystallization temperatures decreased as the comonomer content increased, but this relationship was independent of the comonomer type. In contrast, the values for the glass-transition temperature also decreased with increased comonomer content, but the extent of the decrease was dependent on the comonomer type. © 2000 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. J Polym Sci A: Polym Chem 38: 4110–4118, 2000
Chlorobenzenes(CBs),one of the typical precursors of dioxin in the exhaust gas during waste incineration,can be considered as the indicators for on-line monitoringof dioxin.Based on windowless RF discharge,a single photon ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometer with high photon density was designed to detect the chlorobenzenes with low concentrations in exhaust gas during waste incineration.With the combination of automatic trap and release system,the on-line and rapid detection of chlorobenzenes was investigated.With krypton as the discharge gas,windowless RF discharge photoionization source was employed instead of commercial vacuum ultraviolet(VUV)lamp,which not only improved the radiation efficiency of photons as well as the sensitivity of instrument,but also avoided the pollution of lamp window.In the single measurement period of 36 min,a TA trap tube that filled with 200 mg Tenax was used to implement the sample preconcentration for 10 min,resulting in the linear response ranges of0.5-50,0.64-65 and 0.8-80ng/L for monochlorobenzene,1,3-dichlorobenzene and1,2,4-trichlorobenzene,with limit of detections(S/N10)of 6.4,9.7and 15.2pg/L,respectively.From the continuous monitoring result for 6h,the relative standard deviations(RSD)of signal intensities for monochlorobenzene,1,3-dichlorobenzene and1,2,4-trichlorobenzene are obtained to 7.5%,5.8% and 11.1%,respectively,demonstrating the good stability of windowless RF discharge single photon ionization timeof-flight mass spectrometer,which can be applied in the on-line monitoring of typical precursors of dioxin in the exhaust gas during waste incineration dioxin.
A series of nickel (2–15 wt%) catalysts supported on niobia were prepared. Their catalytic efficiency in the vapour phase hydrodechlorination of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene was studied. The catalyst samples were characterized by X-ray diffraction (XRD), temperature programmed reduction (TPR) and hydrogen chemisorption methods. Hydrogen chemisorption studies suggest that the hydrogen spillover culminates at 6 wt% of Ni/Nb2O5. The partial hydrodechlorination ability of 6 wt% Ni/Nb2O5 was also found to be the highest. Niobia supported nickel catalysts were found to be highly active for the partial hydrodechlorination of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. It was also found that the catalytic properties are related to dispersion of nickel on niobium oxide.
In order to investigate contributions of cellulose (CEL), hemicellulose (HEM), lignin (LIG) to the sorption capacity of biochar derived from lignocellulose, the individual component and their artificially modeled biomass mixture (C-H-L) were pyrolyzed under oxygen-limited condition at various pyrolytic temperatures (i.e. 250, 350, 500, 700 °C). The characterization analysis of biochars and sorption batch experiments were carried out. Variations in physiochemical property of different component biochars resulted in discrepancies in their ability to function as sorbents to 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB). The maximum mass sorption capacity (Qfm) of 1,2,4-TCB was the greatest on CEL biochars ranging from 58.31 to 601.20 mg g−1, and can be best explained by their huge surface area and micropore volume. Hydrophobic partitioning-sorption into ‘soft’ amorphous alkyl carbon may account for the second greatest Qfm (45.09–56.57 mg g−1) on HEM biochars under low pyrolytic temperatures (250–350 °C) with the lowest surface area. LIG biochars with more compact and smooth aromatic structure surface may undergo a surface monolayer specific adsorption. The Qfm (87.86–196.53 mg g−1) on C-H-L biochars were largely dependent on CEL and HEM components for their outstanding sorption capacity and higher content in biomass. Therefore, the results highlighted the importance of CEL and HEM components for 1,2,4-TCB sorption to biochar.
Abstract The transesterification of three ethylene and alkyl acrylate random copolymers (alkyl = methyl, ethyl and n-butyl) with 3-phenyl 1-propanol (PPOH) was studied in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene solution and in the melt. Various catalysts were used, with dibutyltin dilaurate (DBTDL) and dibutyltin oxide (DBTO) showing the highest activities. The reaction between the poly(ethylene- co -methyl acrylate) and PPOH in solution in a closed reactor confirmed that this reaction is reversible. When operated in the melt in a semi-open batch mixer at temperatures between 170 and 190°C the equilibrium was totally shifted to the product side due to effective removal of the lighter alcohols generated from the reaction. The mechanism and rate constants of reaction are identical, regardless of the reaction medium chosen. The reactivity of an alkyl acrylate group towards PPOH depends, to a large extent, on the chemical structure of the alkyl group, and it follows the order: methyl > ethyl > n-butyl. This is primarily attributed to the fact that the longer the alkyl group, the lower the electrophilicity of the carbonyl carbon of the acrylate, and the higher the steric hindrance, both being detrimental to the reactivity. The steric hindrance argument is supported by the activation energies observed in the presence of DBTO as the catalyst: 69.0, 81.6 and 96.6 kJ mol −1 for the methyl, ethyl and n-butyl, respectively. Mechanical mixing favoured the reaction rate.
Two sandwich-type heteroleptic tetrapyrrole cerium complexes, Ce2(dap)2(pc) (1) [dap = 2,8,12,18-tetraethyl-3,7-13,17-tetramethyl-5,15-diazaporphyrinate; pc = phthalocyaninate] and Ce(dap)(oep) (2) (oep = octaethylporphyrinate), were prepared by a one-pot reaction of [Ce(acac)3]·nH2O (acac = acetylacetonate), metal-free diazaporphyrin H2dap, and Li2pc or H2oep in refluxing 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. These sandwich double- and triple-decker complexes were characterized by a wide range of spectroscopic methods in addition to elemental analysis. Their electrochemistry was also studied by cyclic voltammetry and differential pulse voltammetry. The molecular structure of Ce2(dap)2(pc) (1) was determined by X-ray diffraction analysis, indicating an unexpected asymmetrical disposition of the ligands, with two adjacent dap moieties and one outer pc ring.(© Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, 69451 Weinheim, Germany, 2009)
The chromatographic separation of ethylene-propylene (EP) copolymers with regard to chemical composition was accomplished by a new technique - high-temperature gradient HPLC. Using a mobile phase of ethylene glycol monobutylether (EGMBE) and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB), and silica gel as the stationary phase, copolymers with different ethylene contents were separated according to their chemical compositions. Using a sample solvent of n-decanol and a column temperature of140°C, chromatographic conditions were established that correspond to separation in a precipitation-redissolution mechanism. With the aim to obtain further information on the separation process, the HPLC system was coupled to FTIR spectroscopy through a LC-Transform interface. The FTIR data confirmed that the copolymers were separated according to the ethylene content of the eluted samples.
This work introduces a new gradient fiber coating for microextraction of chlorobenzenes. Nanoclusters of organoclay-Cu(II) on a copper wire were fabricated by wireless electrofunctionalization. The resultant gradient coatings are more robust, and thermally and mechanically stable. Wireless electrofunctionalization was carried out in a bipolar cell under a constant deposition potential and using an ethanolic electrolyte solution containing stearic acid and montmorillonite. Stearic acid acts as an inexpensive and green coating while montmorillonite acts as a modifier to impart thermal stability. The gradient morphology of the nanoclusters was investigated by scanning electron microscopy, thermogravimetric analysis and energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy. The coated wire was placed in a hollow needle and used for headspace in-tube microextraction (HS-ITME) of chlorobenzenes (CBs). Effects of various parameters affecting synthesis and extraction were optimized. Following extraction, the needles were directly inserted into the GC injector, and the CBs (chlorobenzene, 1,4-dichlorobenzene, 1,2-dichlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, 1,2,3,4-tetrachlorobenzene) were quantified by GC-MS. The limits of detection under optimized conditions range from 0.5 to 10 ng.L-1. The intra- and inter-day relative standard deviations (RSDs) (for n = 10, 5 respectively) using a single fiber are 6-10 and 10-15%, respectively. The fiber-to-fiber RSDs (for n = 3) is between 17 and 24%. The method was successfully applied to the extraction of CBs from real water samples, and relative recoveries are between 91 and 110%. Graphical abstract A gradient coating of organoclay-Cu nanoclusters was fabricated on a copper wire by wireless electrofunctionalization. The oxidation of copper takes place at the anodic pole (red) while dissolved oxygen in ethanol solution is reduced at the cathodic pole (blue).
Stereoselectivities in the coupling reactions between 1-α-chloro-2-deoxyribose derivative and silylated adenine have been examined under various conditions. The best result was obtained when the coupling reaction was carried out in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene in the presence of triethylamine.
The synthesis, spectral characterization, and crystal structure determination of novel lanthanoid porphyrins, i.e., cerium(IV) bis(octaethylporphyrinate) (Ce(OEP)/sub 2/) and dicerium(III) tris(octaethylporphyrinate)(Ce/sub 2/(OEP)/sub 3/), are described. Synthesis is achieved by prolonged boiling of cerium(III) acetylacetonate (Ce(acac)/sub 3/) and octaethylporphyrin (H/sub 2/(OEP)) in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, C/sub 6/H/sub 3/Cl/sub 3/, followed by chromatography on basic alumina. Solutions of reddish-brown, diamagnetic Ce(OEP)/sub 2/ slowly decompose, depositing scarcely soluble, brown paramagnetic Ce/sub 2/(OEP)/sub 3/. The solution structures are deduced from /sup 1/H resonance spectra, and the solid-state structures are proved by X-ray crystallography of monoclinic Ce(OEP)/sub 2/ (P2/sup 1//n) and monoclinic (P2/sub 1//c) or tetragonal (I 4) modifications of bis(trichlorobenzene) or tetrakis(benzene) solvates of Ce/sub 2/(OEP)/sub 3/. The bisporphyrinate is a double-decker while the trisporphyrinates are triple-decker molecules. The cerium ions appear in an approximate square-antiprismatic geometry with Ce-N distances of 2.48 A for the Ce/sup IV/ and of about 2.50 A (external porphyrinate) and 2.75 A (internal porphyrinate) for the Ce/sup III/ sandwich systems. The external porphyrinates are bent away from the cerium ions in a saucer-like shape, whereas the internal porphyrinate is planar. The two mean planes of the 24 core atoms of the individual porphyrin rings lie 3.40 or 3.54 A away from eachmore » other in the double-decker or triple-decker, respectively.« less
Abstract Biodegradation or bioremediation is a more efficient and environmental friendly method for detoxification of hexachlorocyclohexane (HCH) residues compared to physical and chemical methods. Here, we report the functional expression of dehydrochlorinase (LinA) and enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) in Pseudomonas nitroreducens for efficient biodegradation of γ-HCH. The broad-host-range plasmid pVAG33, harboring dehydrochlorinase gene ( linA ) and enhanced green fluorescent protein gene ( egfp ), was constructed and transformed into the soil-isolated 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB)-degrading strain P. nitroreducens J5-1. Functional expression of LinA and EGFP was confirmed in the recombinant strain by Western-blotting analysis and by determining their enzymatic activities and fluorescence intensity. The recombinant strain could rapidly degrade 10 μg ml −1 γ-HCH in 28 h determined by GC-ECD analysis. It could completely mineralize γ-HCH via γ-HCH through 1,2,4-TCB and 3,4,6-trichlorocatechol and eventually entered the TCA cycle as determined by GC-MS analysis. The engineered strain can be applied in the form of a biocatalyst in a bioreactor for rapid degradation of HCH and chlorobenzene residues. Meanwhile, it can be easily monitored on-line by fluorescence of EGFP for its activity and fate.
This test series developed methods for testing a compliment of aquatic organisms in a single test that satisfies the freshwater acute toxicity requirements for setting water quality criteria. Species tested included fathead minnowsPimephales promelas, rainbow troutSalmo gairdneri, bluegillLepomis macrochirus, channel catfishIctalurus punctatus, goldfishCarassius auratus, white suckerCatostomus commersoni, daphnidDaphnia magna, midgeTanytarsus dissimilis, crayfishOrconectes immunis, snailAplexa hypnorum, tadpoleXenopus laevis, and leechNephelopsis obscura. Five to nine of the preceding species were simultaneously exposed in individual tests. The chemicals tested were acrolein, aniline, dibutylfumarate, 2,4-dinitrophenol, Guthion®, nicotine sulfate, phenol, rotenone, silver, Systox®, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, 2,4,6-trichlorophenol, ando-xylene. This method of simultaneously exposing aquatic organisms in separate compartments of each exposure tank allows more accurate comparisons of species sensitivity with a tested chemical. Use of this method can also produce the minimum acute data set for the derivation of a water quality criterion in less time and with a substantial cost saving for labor, materials, and chemical analyses when compared with measured concentration tests conducted separately with each individual species.
Nanoporous silica gels with well-defined textural properties have been used to calibrate the thermoporosimetry technique with various aromatic solvents including o-, m-, and p-xylene, p-dichlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, and naphthalene. The calibration has been validated on a test alumina sample, and the results are in good agreement with the one derived from gas sorption. The data obtained for the three xylene isomers indicate a linear variation of Tp, the temperature of crystallization of the solvent inside the pore of size Rp, with To, the normal crystallization temperature (Tp = aT 0 + b). A linear fit of these curves gives a constant value for the slope (a 1), but the value of the intercept b depends strongly on the size of the pore. These fitting curves describe perfectly the behavior of the other solvents showing that extrapolation within a structure-related family of solvents is possible. The expression b = -196.41/R p is derived from the data collected for the xylene isomers, and the final expression Tp = 1.02T 0 - 196.41/R p can be used directly to predict the crystallization temperature of any solvent in a pore of size Rp. This general law is derived for benzene-substituted solvents. Nevertheless, this work provides the first evidence of a possible predictive use of thermoporosimetry without fastidious preliminary calibration. The solvents studied in this paper are particularly valuable for swelling of polyolefins.
Pseudomonas sp. strain P51 is able to use 1,2-dichlorobenzene, 1,4-dichlorobenzene, and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene as sole carbon and energy sources. Two gene clusters involved in the degradation of these compounds were identified on a catabolic plasmid, pP51, with a size of 110 kb by using hybridization. They were further characterized by cloning in Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas putida KT2442, and Alcaligenes eutrophus JMP222. Expression studies in these organisms showed that the upper-pathway genes (tcbA and tcbB) code for the conversion of 1,2-dichlorobenzene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene to 3,4-dichlorocatechol and 3,4,6-trichlorocatechol, respectively, by means of a dioxygenase system and a dehydrogenase. The lower-pathway genes have the order tcbC-tcbD-tcbE and encode a catechol 1,2-dioxygenase II, a cycloisomerase II, and a hydrolase II, respectively. The combined action of these enzymes degrades 3,4-dichlorocatechol and 3,4,6-trichlorocatechol to a chloromaleylacetic acid. The release of one chlorine atom from 3,4-dichlorocatechol takes place during lactonization of 2,3-dichloromuconic acid.
Organochlorines (OCs) are persistent chemicals found in various environmental compartments. The differences in the uptake of (14)C-labeled 1,4-dichlorobenzene (DCB), 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) and γ-hexachlorocyclohexane (γHCH) by Phragmites australis were investigated under hydroponic conditions. The first step in sorption appears to be correlated with the hydrophobic nature of the compounds, since log-linear correlations were obtained between root concentration factor and partition coefficient (LogK(ow)). After 7 days of exposure, plant uptake of DCB, TCB, γHCH was significant with bioconcentration factors reaching 14, 19 and 15, respectively. Afterwards, uptake and translocation were seen to be more complex, with a loss of the simple relationship between uptake and LogK(ow). Linear correlations between the bioconcentration/translocation factors and the physico-chemical properties of OCs were shown, demonstrating that translocation from roots to shoots increases with solubility and volatility of the OCs. This suggests that OC-translocation inside plants might result from the combination of two processes, xylem sap flow and vapor fluxes. (14)C-phytovolatilization was measured and was correlated with the volatility of the compounds; the more volatile OCs being most the likely to be phytovolatilized from foliar surfaces (p=0.0008). Thus, OC-uptake/translocation appears to proceed at a rate that depends mostly on the OCs hydrophobicity, solubility and volatility.
The 'ene' reaction is a pericyclic reaction related to the Diels-Alder reaction. It can be used to synthesise products of commercial importance. An example is its use to attach a 'succinic acid functionality' (via maleic anhydride -MA-), to the ene-terminated polyisobutylene (PIB) to yield PIBSA. While there have been a limited number of studies of the ene reaction, none have concentrated on the reactivity of the vinylidene fragment (CH2-C(=CH2)-CH3) which is found in PIB. In addition there are difficulties in the determination of the kinetics of the PIBSA reaction, because of several competitive processes, which may occur. Therefore the overall aim of the project is to investigate the kinetics and mechanism of the ene reaction between a range of simple vinylidene alkenes (including PIB) and maleic anhydride. A small range of alkenes, 2-methyl-4-phenylbut-1-ene, 2-methyl-4-phenylpent-1-ene, 2.4-dimethyl-4-phenylpent-1-ene and 2,4-dimethyl-4-(-4-fluorophenyl)pent-1-ene, were synthesised, in overall yields of 10 to 35 %. Syntheses were achieved using 1,4-conjugate addition, Friedel-Crafts and Wittig methodologies, and purification involved column chromatography and distillation. Product identification was by 1H NMR and 13C NMR spectroscopy. NMR monitoring of the reaction of 4-phenylbut-1-ene under conditions of equimolar MA in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene solvent allowed the identification of the adduct 3-(4- phenyl-2-butenyl)dihydro-2,5-furandione as a 9:1 mixture of E and Z isomers. No evidence for further reaction to yield a di-adduct. Similar monitoring of the reactions of the other enes yielded no clear evidence of the adduct. However, under conditions of excess MA, 2,4-dimethyl-4-phenylpent-1-ene, 2.4-dimethyl-4-(-4-fluorophenyl)pent-l-ene yielded the expected adduct. PIB showed evidence of the adduct. A comparison of the 1H-NMR spectra for 2,4-dimethyl-4-phenylpent-1-ene, 2,4-dimethyl-4-(-4-fluorophenyl)pent-1-ene, PIB showed that, in all cases, only product derived from migration of the 1° H was found. Furthermore, no di-adduct was formed even for 2,4-dimethyl-4-phenylpent-1-ene, 2,4-dimethyl-4-(-4-fluorophenyl)pent-1-ene, with large excess of MA. The rate constants in the range 160 °C to 190 °C were determined for all alkenes mostly under conditions of excess MA, but some under conditions of excess alkene. Second order rate constants at 180°C varied from 4*10-5 to 100*10-5 with 4-phenylbut-1-ene being significantly slower than the others. A small medium effect of ca. 2 was identified as resulting from the change from excess ene to excess maleic anhydride. The activation parameters were in the range DeltaH+ 48 to 120 kJ mol-1 and DeltaS+ -53 to -229 J mol K-1. A computational calculation using Hartree-Fock and Semi-Empirical methods of the FMO, HOMOene-LUMOenophile gap allowed ranking of the alkenes. In general the gross trend in reactivity found experimentally was reflected in the computational work. The findings are compared to others and rationalised in terms of a pericyclic, exo Transition State, with the incipient C=C preferring an E configuration.
A new host compound TTPP (tris(2,3-triphenylenedioxy)cyclotriphosphazene), which is able to form a porous network, has been synthesized in five steps. When it crystallizes as a single component, TTPP exhibits a crystal structure with a monoclinic unit cell, the space groupP21/c (no. 14) and unit cell dimensions of a = 14.909(2) A, b = 31.013(4) A, c = 9.074(1) A, β = 102.12(1)°. Co-crystallization of TTPP with 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene forms an inclusion crystal having a triclinic unit cell with a P space group (no. 2) and unit cell dimensions of a = 8.769(2) A, b = 15.024(2) A, c = 21.216(2) A, α = 94.82(0)°, β = 99.98(0)°, γ = 98.23(1). The guest lies in two kinds of channel-like cavities with dimensions of 6.1 × 8.4 A2 and 10.7 × 12.4 A2 respectively. This represents the biggest porous network built up by spirocyclotriphosphazene derivatives to date.
The ABC-type NMR spectra of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and methyl vinyl ketone were re-examined. Improved sets of coupling constants have been obtained for these compounds.
A fast, eco-friendly and reliable method combining dispersive liquid-liquid microextracion (DLLME) with capillary gas chromatography (GC) was developed for the simultaneous determination of p-dichlorobenzene (p-DCB), o-dichlorobenzene (o-DCB), nitrobenze (NB), 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB), and 3-nitrotoluene (NT) in wastewater. To achieve this goal, dispersive liquid-liquid microextraction (DLLME) was applied as a sample preparation technique. The DLLME parameters such as the types and volume of extraction solvent, the types and volume of the disperser solvent, pH value and salt addition were investigated and optimized. The method was linear in the ranges from 2.2 × 10 -2 to 200 µg·mL -1 for aforementioned compounds with R 2 ≥ 0.9987. The DLLME procedure allowed efficient recovery of these compounds ranging between 89 % and 104 % with a relative standard deviation (RSD) ≤ 9.6 (n=6) for genuine wastewater samples spiked with 10, 50 and 100 µg·mL -1 of standard substances, respectively. These results showed the potential of this technique for chlorobenzenes and nitrobenzoates monitoring in wastewater samples. Furthermore, the methods are simple, reproducible, and inexpensive.
A fast, eco-friendly and reliable method combining dispersive liquid-liquid microextracion (DLLME) with capillary gas chromatography (GC) was developed for the simultaneous determination of p-dichlorobenzene (p-DCB), o-dichlorobenzene (o-DCB), nitrobenze (NB), 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB), and 3-nitrotoluene (NT) in wastewater. To achieve this goal, dispersive liquid-liquid microextraction (DLLME) was applied as a sample preparation technique. The DLLME parameters such as the types and volume of extraction solvent, the types and volume of the disperser solvent, pH value and salt addition were investigated and optimized. The method was linear in the ranges from 2.2 × 10 -2 to 200 µg·mL -1 for aforementioned compounds with R 2 ≥ 0.9987. The DLLME procedure allowed efficient recovery of these compounds ranging between 89 % and 104 % with a relative standard deviation (RSD) ≤ 9.6 (n=6) for genuine wastewater samples spiked with 10, 50 and 100 µg·mL -1 of standard substances, respectively. These results showed the potential of this technique for chlorobenzenes and nitrobenzoates monitoring in wastewater samples. Furthermore, the methods are simple, reproducible, and inexpensive.
At U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) sites, significant amounts of job control waste (JCW) need to be disposed. This JCW is generated and contaminated with polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) during cleanup operations. A commercial, plant-based absorbent material, “Toxi-dry,” is used extensively for decontamination and decommissioning of DOE waste sites and is classified a hazardous JCW after use. In this investigation, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) was chosen as the surrogate for PCBs. As a promising separation technology, supercritical fluid extraction (SFE) was investigated for removing and recovering PCBs from contaminated of JCW. TCB was extracted from Toxi-dry using both pure and modified supercritical carbon dioxide. It was found that at constant pressure, increasing temperature from 40 to 80°C greatly improved the recoveries, while the pressure effect of SFE was not as clear as the temperature effect. With 5wt% acetone or ethanol added as cosolvent, the efficiency of SFE of TCB was also significantly im...
Autooxidation of low density polyethylene has been studied in melt and in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene solution. The kinetics of oxygen-absorption, concentrations of hydroperoxides, carboxyl, and other oxo groups and average number of scissions have been investigated. It has been found that the main features of the oxidative processes in solution and in melt do not differ significantly. However, the concentration of hydroperoxides as a function of conversion and the dependence of the maximum concentration of hydroperoxides on temperature make exception. There is a very good agreement between average number of chain scissions and carboxyl groups and this is independent of phase, concentration, temperature, and conversion. From one mole consumed oxygen approximately 0.6 § 0.7 mole remains in the polymer backbone in the form of oxygen-containing functional groups. The ratio of average chain scissions to the formed carbonyl groups is 1:5, i.e., functional groups form both at the chain ends, in consecutive reactions after the scission, and along the polymer chain.
With rice varieties Shanyou 63 (indica hybrid) and Wuyujing 7 (japonica) as materials, the effects of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) and naphthalene (NAP) on grain yield, yield components, and grain quality were studied and regulation strategies to reduce the residue in rice grain were proposed. The survival percentage of rice seedlings was significantly reduced by TCB, which was the main reason for the decrease of the grain yield, while NAP had little effect. Both TCB and NAP delayed the heading date of rice. Among the yield components, decreases in number of panicles per pot and seed setting rate were two main reasons for the yield reduction. Both of the organic pollutants affected the grain quality, and their effects on chalkiness were the greatest, the next was on milled rice rate, head rice rate, protein content and amylose content in order, and the both pollutants had little effect on brown rice rate of the two tested varieties. The NAP content was as ten times as TCB content in grains, indicating that the bioavailability of NAP was higher than that of TCB. Shanyou 63 accumulated more organic pollutants than Wuyunjing 7. Application of organic and inorganic fertilizer could reduce the harm of TCB and NAP, and increase grain yield. The results suggested that in sewage water irrigation practice, the supply of irrigation water in good quality is necessary for higher survival percentage of seedlings after transplanting, and controlling TCB, especially NAP content, and adoption of reasonable cultivation strategies are very important for high grain yield and food safety.
A chlorobenzene reductive dehalogenase of the anaerobic dehalorespiring bacterium Dehalococcoides sp. strain CBDB1 was identified. Due to poor biomass yields, standard protein isolation procedures were not applicable. Therefore, cell extracts from cultures grown on trichlorobenzenes were separated by native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and analyzed directly for chlorobenzene reductive dehalogenase activity within gel fragments. Activity was found in a single band, even though electrophoretic separation was performed under aerobic conditions. Matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization mass spectrometry (MALDI MS) and nano-liquid chromatography-MALDI MS analysis of silver-stained replicas of the active band on native polyacrylamide gels identified a protein product of the cbdbA84 gene, now called cbrA. The cbdbA84 gene is one of 32 reductive dehalogenase homologous genes present in the genome of strain CBDB1. The chlorobenzene reductive dehalogenase identified in our study represents a member of the family of corrinoid/iron-sulfur cluster-containing reductive dehalogenases. No orthologs of cbdbA84 were found in the completely sequenced genomes of Dehalococcoides sp. strains 195 and BAV1 nor among the genes amplified from Dehalococcoides sp. strain FL2 or mixed cultures containing Dehalococcoides. Another dehalogenase homologue (cbdbA80) was expressed in cultures that contained 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, but its role is unclear. Other highly expressed proteins identified with our approach included the major subunit of a protein annotated as formate dehydrogenase, transporter subunits, and a putative S-layer protein.
Reactions of OH radicals with aromatics were investigated in the presence of He at pressures ranging from 5 to 800 mbar using pulsed vacuum uv photolysis of H2O for the production of OH and time resolved resonance fluorescence for the detection of OH. At room temperature (296 K) in the presence of 133 mbar He the rate constants, k, were observed to be in the high pressure limit. The rate constants, (k ± Δk)/10−12 cm3 s−1, were determined to be: (1.0 ± 0.2) for benzene; (120 ± 24) for aniline; (28 ± 6) for phenol, (0.50 ± 0.10) for 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. — For the temperature dependence of the rate constant for 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene the Arrhenius expression (k ± 3σ) = (2.3 ± 1) · 10−12 exp [ — (430 ± 125) K/T] cm3 s−1 is obtained from measurements at 273 to 368 K. — The rate constants at room temperature can be correlated with the ionization potential, I, of the aromatics, yielding the equation: logk/cm3s−1 = 0.74–1.36 · I/eV. This equation is seen to represent the rate data on 18 aromatics to within a precision of a factor of two; with some precautions it might be used to predict rate constants for further substituted benzene aromatics. Outliers in such a diagram are benzaldehyde and the cresols (being more reactive than predicted), and diphenyl and chlorinated aromatics (being less reactive).
Several alkoxy/aryloxy-substituted phosphazene polymers [P(OR)2 N]n, where R = C6H5, CH2CF3, C8H10, were prepared by the reaction of polydichlorophosphazene with their corresponding sodium salts. The polydichlorophosphazene was obtained by the solution polymerization of hexachlorocyclotriphosphazene in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. Sulfamic acid and ammonium sulfamate were used as catalysts. Apparently, sulfamic acid functions as a catalyst through its acid group in some decomposed form. New catalysts, p-toluenesulfonic acid and sulfobenzoic aicd, have been developed for this solution polymerization. The polymerization favors a cationic mechanism. A promoter, CaSO4·2H2O, was found to speed up the polymerization reaction. Effect of several parameters such as dilution, catalyst concentration, and promoter concentration on the properties of the final polymer were investigated. The polymers were characterized by differential scanning calorimetry, gel permeation chromatography, and 31P solution NMR spectroscopy.
Gas chromatography in hyphenation with mass spectrometry was applied to the determination of volatile organic compounds(VOC′s) on the surface of crop seeds.The analytes were purge-trapped,thermodesorbed,and determined by GC-MS.Internal standard was adopted in the determination.Linear relationships between values of peak area and mass concentration of 5 kinds of VOC′s,including dichloromethane,1,2-dichloroethane,chloro-benezene,1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and naphthalene,were obtained in definite ranges,with detection limits(3s) in the range of 0.20-0.40 μg·kg-1.Tests for recovery and precision were made by standard addition method,values of recovery found were in the range of 86.5%-96.3% and values of RSD′s(n=7) were less than 5.5%.
Surfactants may be used in remediation of subsoil and aquifer contaminated with hydrophobic compounds. The objectives of this study were to examine the effect of soil texture on hydrophobic organic contaminant (HOC; toluene, or 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene [TCB]) removal from six soils and to evaluate the optimal composition of soil texture for maximum HOC removal using aqueous surfactant solution. Selected surfactants were 4% (vol/vol) sodium diphenyl oxide disulfonate (DOSL) and 4% (wt/vol) sodium lauryl sulfate (LS). Toluene and TCB were selected as the lighter-than-water nonaqueous phase liquid (LNAPL) and denser-than-water nonaqueous phase liquid (DNAPL) model substances, respectively. Soil types used for this study were Ottawa sand and five Iowa soils (Fruitfield, Keomah, Crippin, Webster, and Galvar). The greatest recovery of toluene and TCB in batch tests was 73% and 84%, respectively, which was obtained with DOSL surfactant in Ottawa sand. The toluene removal of 95% in column tests has been achieved in the Ottawa sand and three Iowa soils (Fruitfield, Keomah, Crippin) with DOSL after effluent volume of 3750 ml (about 32 pore volume) passed. TCB removal of 98% in column tests has been achieved in Ottawa sand and three Iowa soils (Fruitfield, Keomah, Crippin) with DOSL after effluent volume of 2500 ml (about 21 pore volume) passed. These results were related with soil texture (clay content 30%), clay mineralogy (kaolinite and smectite), as a function of transported pore volume.
Anionic surfactants and cationic polymers are two classes of anthropogenic chemicals that are released to the environment in significant amounts. In particular, this occurs in the land disposal of sludges, potentially altering the terrestrial mobility of other contaminants such as hydrophobic organics. Thus, we examined the 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) sorption-desorption on soil with sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) and/or a cationic polyelectrolyte (Percol 757) present. Initial experiments varying sorbent mass resulted in nonconstant partitioning and a nonlinear isotherm; a model of incomplete colloidal separation by centrifugation could not explain the nonlinearity. A proposed model quantifies this isotherm behavior with a BET isotherm equation related to the limiting sorption capacity of the organic matter phase, Q{sub om}{degrees}. Additions of SDS and/or polyelectrolyte led to significant changes in TCB sorption. The SDS decreased TCB sorption significantly, but only with SDS exceeding the critical micelle concentration (CMC). The CMC value itself varied with electrolyte and soil presence. Increasing the SDS concentration above the CMC caused TCB desorption from soil. The SDS also increased residual colloidal solids, but primarily below the CMC. Percol 757 slightly increased TCP sorption. With polymer added to soil containing SDS, TCB sorption was unaffected until charge equivalence was approached, whereupon sorption more » increased severalfold. This trend reversed when the SDS exceeded the sum of the polymer equivalence and the CMC. These results are explained in terms of polymer-surfactant interactions. Environmental implications include effects on transport of hydrophobic organics resulting form sludge disposal on land. 27 refs., 10 figs. « less
The effect of solvation on the adsorption of organic molecules on graphite at room temperature has been addressed with force-field molecular dynamics simulations. As a model system, the solvation of a bis(terpyridine) isomer in water and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene was studied with an explicit solvation model. The inclusion of solvation has a noticeable effect on adsorption energies. Although the results of the various considered force fields differ quite significantly, they all agree that the adsorption of BTP from the TCB solvent is almost thermoneutral. The substrate simply acts as a template to allow a planar arrangement of the network, which is stabilized by the intermolecular interaction. Using an atomic thermodynamics approach, the order of the stability of various network structures as a function of the chemical potential is derived yielding a sequence in agreement with the experiment.
The authors use solvents with different boiling points and a mixture of these solvents to tune the morphology of blends formed from poly[2,5-dimethoxy-1,4-phenylenevinylene-2-methoxy-5-(2-ethylhexyloxy)-1,4-phenylenevinylene] (M3EH-PPV) and poly[oxa-1,4-phenylene-1,2-(1-cyano)-ethylene-2,5-dioctyloxy-1,4-phenylene-1,2-(2-cyano)-ethylene-1,4-phenylene] (CN-ether-PPV). In photoluminescence (PL), the emission of as-prepared films spin-coated from chloroform (CF) is entirely dominated by an exciplex, with no evidence for the radiative decay of either the M3EH-PPV or the CN-ether-PPV exciton. Evidently these intrachain excited species dissociate rapidly by intermolecular charge transfer, pointing to a highly intermixed blend morphology. On the other hand, the PL of films deposited from 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) exhibits predominant emission from the M3EH-PPV exciton, indicating the presence of rather pure M3EH-PPV domains in the phase-separated polymers layers. The blend morphology is shown to have a large ...
Abstract The mathematical relationship between the gel permeation chromatography calibration curves of polystyrene and linear polyethylene has been determined in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene at 130, 135 and 140°C. The experimentally determined relationship is in good agreement with that predicted from application of the principles of the universal calibration technique and published Mark-Houwink coefficients. Definition of this relationship enables the use of polystyrene as a secondary standard for gel permeation chromatographic determination of linear polyethylene molecular weight determinations.
Effects of exposure-water pH on chemical uptake at rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) gills were investigated for nine weakly acidic, chlorinated phenols with different ionization constants and hydrophobicities and for a moderately hydrophobic, nonionizable reference chemical (1,2,4-trichlorobenzene). Uptake rates for all chemicals varied little from pH 6.3 to 8.4, despite ionization of the chlorinated phenols ranging from less than 1 to greater than 99.9% among these pH values and chemicals. At pH 9.2, uptake rates were reduced substantially for the chlorinated phenols but not for the reference chemical. These results indicate greater bioavailability of neutral chemical forms but also considerable bioavailability of ionized forms that varies with pH. Three mechanisms were evaluated regarding such ionized chemical bioavailability. First, reduced pH at the gill surface causes net conversion of ionized molecules to more readily absorbed neutral molecules. This mechanism was tested by increasing exposure-water alkalinity, which increased gill surface pH and reduced uptake of the chlorinated phenols but not of the reference chemical. Magnitudes of these effects were close to predictions from a mathematical model for chemical exchange at fish gills that incorporated this mechanism. Second, ionized molecules contribute to uptake by maintaining high gradients of neutral molecules across epithelial membrane barriers, even if the barriers are impermeable to these ions. This mechanism was demonstrated to explain the similarity of uptake among pH values and chemicals at pH less than 8.4 and the degree to which uptake declined at pH 9.2. Third, membrane barriers can have some permeability to the ionized forms, but this was not important for the chemicals and conditions of the present study. Increased exposure-water pH also was demonstrated to increase elimination rates of these chemicals, which also was in accord with model expectations.
Reaction of the half-sandwich complexes MIII(Pc)(acac) (M = La, Eu, Y, Lu; Pc = phthalocyaninate; acac = acetylacetonate) with the metal-free N-confused 5,10,15,20-tetrakis[(4-tert-butyl)phenyl]porphyrin (H2NTBPP) or its N2-position methylated analogue H(CH3)NTBPP in refluxing 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) led to the isolation of MIII(Pc)(HNTBPP) (M = La, Eu, Y, Lu) or YIII(Pc)[(CH3)NTBPP] in 8–15% yield. These represent the first examples of sandwich-type rare earth complexes with N-confused porphyrinato ligands. The complexes were characterized with various spectroscopic methods and elemental analysis. The molecular structures of four of these double-decker complexes were also determined by single-crystal X-ray diffraction analysis. In each of these complexes, the metal center is octa-coordinated by four isoindole nitrogen atoms of the Pc ligand, three pyrrole nitrogen atoms, and the inverted pyrrole carbon atom of the HNTBPP or (CH3)NTBPP ligand, forming a distorted coordination square antiprism. For Eu...
The novel, low-melting-point (19 °C) salt [N-pentylpyridinium]+ [closo-CB11H12]−(2) was synthesized in 93% yield and characterized by elemental analysis, IR spectroscopy, and 1H, 13C, and 11B NMR spectroscopy. The salt was used as a solvent in several dehalogenation reactions of mono- and poly-chlorides and -bromides, catalyzed by the palladium complexes PdCl2(PPh3)2, PdCl2(dppe), and PdCl2(dppf). Complete debromination of C6Br6, 1,2,4,5-tetrabromobenzene, C60Br8, and C60Br24 was accomplished quite rapidly, whereas dechlorination of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene proceeded more slowly, but with excellent products selectivity. Copyright © 2003 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
The effect of solvation on the adsorption of organic molecules on graphite at room temperature has been addressed with force-field molecular dynamics simulations. As a model system, the solvation of a bis(terpyridine) isomer in water and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene was studied with an explicit solvation model. The inclusion of solvation has a noticeable effect on adsorption energies. Although the results of the various considered force fields differ quite significantly, they all agree that the adsorption of BTP from the TCB solvent is almost thermoneutral. The substrate simply acts as a template to allow a planar arrangement of the network, which is stabilized by the intermolecular interaction. Using an atomic thermodynamics approach, the order of the stability of various network structures as a function of the chemical potential is derived yielding a sequence in agreement with the experiment.
As a solvent, we have taken into account 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB), which was used in the experimental work [6] . Additionally, we have also considered water as a reference since many organic molecules are deposited from aqueous solutions.
Objective To establish a method for determination of organochlorine pesticides and chlorobenzene compounds in water by using headspace solid-phase microextraction(HS-SPME)coupled with GC. Methods 100 μm PDMS was used as SPME fiber. At 1 150 r/min with magnetic stiring,extraction time was 30 min,temperature was 80 ℃. The injector temperature was held at 270 ℃ and desorption time was 5 min. The column pressure was set at 80 kPa. Make-up flow rate was at a constant of 20 ml/min. The septum purge was set at 5 ml/min. The injector was used in splitless mode for 3 min and then in split mode at the rate of 24∶1. The ECD system was maintained at 300 ℃. Results The limit of detection (LOD) of 1,4-dichlorobenzene was 8.633 ng/L in the range of 0.39 to 19.56 μg/L. The LOD of 1,2-dichlorobenzene was 4.023 ng/L in 0.35 to 17.68 μg/L. The LOD of 1,3,5- trichlorobenzene was 0.148 ng/L in 0.007 7 to 0.38 μg/L. The LOD of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene was 0.124 ng/L in 0.009 to 0.48 μg/L. The LOD of 1,2,3-trichlorobenzene was 0.099 ng/L in 0.007 9 to 0.39 μg/L. The LOD of hexachlorobenzene was 0.005 ng/L in 0.000 4 to 0.02 μg/L. The LOD of heptachlor was 0.073 ng/L in 0.001 to 0.05 μg/L. The LOD of chlorothalonil was 0.277 ng/L in 0.096 to 4.83 μg/L. The LOD of α-HCH was 0.013 ng/L in 0.008 to 0.40 μg/L. The LOD of β-HCH was 0.353 ng/L in 0.04 to 2.00 μg/L. The LOD of γ-HCH was 0.06 ng/L in 0.008 to 0.40 μg/L. The LOD of δ-HCH was 1.25 ng/L in 0.04 to 2.00 μg/L. The LOD of p,p’-DDE was 0.03 ng/L in 0.030 to 0.10 μg/L. The LOD of o,p’-DDT was 0.122 ng/L in 0.008 to 0.40 μg/L. The LOD of p,p’- DDD was 0.066 ng/L in 0.004 to 0.20 μg/L. The LOD of p,p’-DDT was 0.464 ng/L in 0.02 to 1.00 μg/L. A good linearity was obtained,r 0.99. The recovery rates were 72.25% -109.0% with the relative standard deviation (RSD) of 1.82% -11.61% . Conclusion The method is fast,simple,sensitive and needs no organic solvent and it is applicable to the determination of organochlorine pesticides and chlorobenzene compounds in water.
The rates of degradation of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB), 2,5-dichloronitrobenzene (DCNB), diuron and isoproturon by Fe(II)/H2O2 and Fe(III)/H2O2 have been investigated in dilute aqueous solution ([Organic compound]0 approximately 1 microM, at 25.0 +/- 0.2 degrees C and pH < or = 3). Using the relative rate method with atrazine as the reference compound, and the Fe(II)/H2O2 (with an excess of Fe(II)) and Fe(III)/H2O2 systems as sources of OH radicals, the rate constants for the reaction of OH* with TCB and DCNB were determined as (6.0 +/- 0.3)10(9) and (1.1 +/- 0.2)10(9) M(-1) s(-1). Relative rates of degradation of diuron and isoproturon by Fe(II)/H2O2 were about two times smaller in the absence of dissolved oxygen than in the presence of oxygen. These data indicate that radical intermediates are reduced back to the parent compound by Fe(II) in the absence of oxygen. Oxidation experiments with Fe(III)/H2O2 showed that the rate of decomposition of atrazine markedly increased in the presence of TCB and this increase has been attributed to a regeneration of Fe(II) by oxidation reactions of intermediates (radical species and dihydroxybenzenes) by Fe(III).
For the first time polyolefins are separated according to tacticity by liquid chromatography. High-temperature gradient HPLC is shown to be suitable for the separation of polyethylene and polypropylene. As the stationary phase a porous carbon-based material is used; the mobile phase is composed of 1-decanol and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. It is shown that at an operating temperature of 160 °C linear polyethylene as well as syndiotactic and atactic polypropylenes are fully adsorbed on the stationary phase from 1-decanol. In contrast, isotactic polypropylene is fully eluted. This behavior provides a novel way for liquid chromatographic separation of polyolefins. After the isocratic elution of isotactic polypropylene with 1-decanol, all retained components are desorbed from the column packing in a gradient of 1-decanol/1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. Nearly baseline-separated peaks are obtained for all components even in the case where the components do not differ in their molar masses.
Chinese hamster ovary, rabbit alveolar macrophage, Syrian hamster embryo, BALB 3T3 mouse, and human neonatal fibroblast cells were employed in a statistical evaluation of the relative sensitivity of the cells to toxic substances. The cells were exposed to 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, 2,4-dimethylphenol, Aroclor 1248, cadmium chloride, lead sulfate, nickel nitrate, lead oxide-coated fly ash, and a fine particulate from coal combustion. A filter-disk technique was used to measure the inhibition of protein and DNA synthesis. A quantitative ranking of cell-system sensitivity was determined from comparisons of statistically significant differences (P less than or equal to 0.01) in protein and DNA synthesis expressed as a percentage of control. An overall ranking of sensitivity showed that rabbit alveolar macrophages, Syrian hamster embryo cells, and Chinese hamster ovary cells were more sensitive than another of the five cell systems in 75, 68, and 62% of the experiments, respectively. The corresponding values for BALB 3T3 mouse and human neonatal fibroblast cells were 38 and 28%, respectively, under our experimental conditions. Detailed data on the control cell cultures are also presented.
The addition of powdered activated carbon (PAC) to activated sludge treatment systems to enhance removal of specific toxic organic compounds from wastewater was evaluated. Nine organic compounds encompassing a range of solubility, volatility, biodegradability, and adsorptive properties were studied. Kate and equilibrium investigations were conducted to quantify the removal mechanisms of volatilization, biodegradation, biosorption, and carbon adsorption. Results from steady-state bioreactor studies showed that the addition of less than 100 mg/l powdered activated carbon to the influent did not enhance the removal of the biodegradable target compounds investigated: benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, o-xylene, chlorobenzene, and nitrobenzene. Significantly improved removals of the poorly degradable and non-biodegradable compounds 1,2-dichlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, and lindane occurred at influent powdered carbon concentrations in the 12.5 to 25 mg/l range. Influent powdered carbon concentrations of 100 mg/l effected overall removals of greater than 90%. The addition of powdered activated carbon not only reduced effluent concentrations but also reduced the amounts of the volatile compounds stripped to the atmosphere.
Herein, poly(3-hexylthiophene-2,5-diyl) (P3HT) nanofiber-based organic field-effect transistors were successfully prepared by coaxial electrospinning technique with P3HT as the core polymer and poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA) as the shell polymer, followed by extraction of PMMA. Three different solvents for the core polymer, including chloroform, chlorobenzene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, were employed to manipulate the morphologies and electrical properties of P3HT electrospun nanofibers. Through the analyses from dynamic light scattering of P3HT solutions, polarized photoluminescence and X-ray diffraction pattern of P3HT electrospun nanofibers, it is revealed that the P3HT electrospun nanofiber prepared from the chloroform system displays a low crystallinity but highly oriented crystalline grains due to the dominant population of isolated-chain species in solution that greatly facilitates P3HT chain stretching during electrospinning. The resulting high charge-carrier mobility of 3.57 × 10−1 cm2·V−1·s−1 and decent mechanical deformation up to a strain of 80% make the P3HT electrospun nanofiber a promising means for fabricating stretchable optoelectronic devices.
A 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene-degrading strain THSL-1 was isolated from the soil of Tianjin chemical plant using 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene as sole carbon source. The strain was identified preliminarily as Pseudomonas stutzeri through morphologic survey and 16S rDNA sequence determination. A plasmid strip was found from strain THSL-1 through plasmid detection. When the plasmid obtained was transformed to E. coli JM109, the transformant could grow using 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene as sole carbon source and had degradation function of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. Therefore, it could be deemed that the plasmid carried the gene for 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene degradation. The plasmid average size was determined finally to be 40.2kb using selectively 3 kinds of restricted inscribed enzyme (HindIII、BamHI、XholI) for single cutting and double cutting the plasmid pTHSL-1 respectively.
Breakthrough across high-density polyethylene (HDPE) was measured for 2,3',4',5-tetrachlorobiphenyl and a higher-solubility surrogate, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. Addition of powdered activated carbon (0.14 g carbon/cm(3) membrane) reduced pseudo-steady-state flux through thin HDPE membranes by approximately 60%. Breakthrough curves for activated carbon-containing membranes were best described by a model in which sorption to the carbon was limited by the rate of diffusion from the bulk membrane to the carbon particle surfaces. Field-scale estimates based on this model show a substantial (over 10 orders of magnitude) reduction in flux for the activated carbon-containing HDPE compared with pure HDPE. The flux of 2,3',4',5-tetrachlorobiphenyl through a composite membrane with thin layers of poly(vinyl alcohol) (PVA) with 0.05 g carbon/cm(3) and pure HDPE was 69% lower than expected for a similar layered membrane without the sorptive scavenger. This flux reduction was achieved with less than a third of the carbon used in the HDPE case, an improvement that is likely the result of better solute uptake in the hydrophilic PVA layer.
A five-year site investigation was conducted at a former chemical plant in Nanjing, China. The main contaminants were 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) reaching concentrations up to 7300 μg/L, dichlorobenzene (DCB) isomers, monochlorobenzene (MCB), and benzene. Over time, these contaminants naturally attenuated to below regulatory levels under anaerobic conditions. To confirm the transformation processes and to explore the mechanisms, a corresponding laboratory microcosm study was completed demonstrating that 1,2,4-TCB was dechlorinated to 1,2-DCB, 1,3-DCB, and 1,4-DCB in approximately 2%/10%/88% molar proportions. The DCB isomers were dechlorinated via MCB to benzene, and, finally, benzene was degraded under prevailing sulfate-reducing conditions. Dechlorination could not be attributed to known dechlorinators Dehalobacter or Dehalococcoides, while anaerobic benzene degradation was mediated by microbes affiliated to a Deltaproteobacterium ORM2, previously associated with this activity. Unidentified organic com...
The ZSM-5 zeolites with varying silica to alumina ratios and with both hydrogen and sodium counter ions (Z1000H:SiO2/Al2O3 = 1000, Z900Na:SiO2/Al2O3 = 900, Z25H:SiO2/Al2O3 = 25 and Z25Na:SiO2/Al2O3 = 25) and γ-alumina have been selected as catalysts. The first investigation was initiated to study the mechanisms of catalytic ozonation on zeolites and alumina. The formation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) such as hydroxyl radicals (oOH), hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) and superoxide ion radical (oO2-) have been investigated by using coumarin (COU), amplex red and 4-chloro-7-nitrobenzo-2-oxa-1,3-dizole (NBD-Cl) as probes respectively. The effects of hydroxyl radical scavenger and phosphates have also been studied to investigate the mechanism. The results show that alumina catalyses radical pathways involving ROS, showing its highest activity at pH close to the point of zero charge. However, zeolites do not promote the formation of ROS. The presence of phosphates and t-butanol (TBA) significantly reduces the formation of ROS in the case of alumina. However, in the case of zeolites TBA and phosphates do not have a significant effect on ROS formation. ::: ::: The second investigation involved the study of the efficiency of catalysts to remove organic contaminants. The ibuprofen and volatile organic chemicals (VOCs) such as cumene, 1,2-dichlorobenzene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene have been selected as target pollutants. The results show that within the family of zeolites, silica to alumina ratio is important for the adsorption of pollutants and for catalytic efficiency of zeolites. Therefore, Z1000H and Z900Na have been found to effectively catalyse the removal of VOCS and Z25H and Z25Na were the better catalysts for the removal of ibuprofen in its ionized form. The alumina was found to be ineffective for the removal of VOCs. However, alumina effectively removes ibuprofen. This is because of high adsorption of ibuprofen on alumina. Therefore, it is hypothesized that zeolites operate through a simple mechanism involving the direct reaction of adsorbed species on their surfaces; their activity depends upon their silica to alumina ratios and is insensitive to the nature of counter ions. The alumina operates through a radical mechanism involving the formation of ROS. Furthermore, the adsorption of pollutants plays an important role in the catalytic ozonation process.
Abstract Nanocomposites based on Pd and Ni encapsulated (@) in carbon have been prepared by condensation of nanoparticles in the flow of gas mixture (Ar and hydrocarbons) and characterized by TEM, TGA-MS, XRD spectroscopy and BET adsorption measurements. Ni@C, NiPd@C nanocomposites consist of metal core 3–10 nm in size covered by a few carbon layers; Pd particles are 10–15 nm in size, have no carbon shell and are joined in chains. Catalytic properties were investigated in hydrodechlorination (HDC) of chlorobenzene in gas phase and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene in liquid phase. Totally carbon covered particles of Ni and Pd-Ni demonstrate high activity and stability in gasphase hydrodechlorination of chlorobenzene at 100–350 °C and in liquid phase HDC of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene at 130 °C under middle pressure.
A natural shale and four synthetic organoclays were compared as potential sorbent additives to containment barriers at hazardous waste sites. Trimethylphenyl ammonium bentonite (TMPA-bent) was shown in batch experiments to have the greatest sorption capacities for 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, trichloroethylene, and methyl isobutyl ketone, followed by the shale and a commercial organoclay. Sorption capacities were lowest for hexadecyltrimethyl ammonium bentonite (HDTMA-bent) and hexadecyl pyridinium bentonite (HDP-bent). Operative sorption mechanisms for the organoclays depended on the size of the organic modifier, i.e., uptake by the TMPA-bent occurred via adsorption onto mineral surfaces, while that for the HDTMA-bent and HDP-bent took place by absorption into organic phases formed by their long hydrocarbon tails. The shale was found to be by far the most cost-effective sorbent, an important factor for large scale applications. Solids concentration effects (i.e., higher apparent sorption capacities at lower experimental sorbent concentrations) were exhibited by HDTMA-bent and HDP-bent. This can be attributed to aggregation of sorbent particles as a result of interactions among their hydrocarbon chains. Solids effects were observed to decline and eventually disappear as sorbent concentrations were increased. Such effects must be considered in applying batch sorption results to flow-through systems.
Herein, poly(3-hexylthiophene-2,5-diyl) (P3HT) nanofiber-based organic field-effect transistors were successfully prepared by coaxial electrospinning technique with P3HT as the core polymer and poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA) as the shell polymer, followed by extraction of PMMA. Three different solvents for the core polymer, including chloroform, chlorobenzene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, were employed to manipulate the morphologies and electrical properties of P3HT electrospun nanofibers. Through the analyses from dynamic light scattering of P3HT solutions, polarized photoluminescence and X-ray diffraction pattern of P3HT electrospun nanofibers, it is revealed that the P3HT electrospun nanofiber prepared from the chloroform system displays a low crystallinity but highly oriented crystalline grains due to the dominant population of isolated-chain species in solution that greatly facilitates P3HT chain stretching during electrospinning. The resulting high charge-carrier mobility of 3.57 × 10 −1 cm 2 ·V −1 ·s −1 and decent mechanical deformation up to a strain of 80% make the P3HT electrospun nanofiber a promising means for fabricating stretchable optoelectronic devices.
In this report, we prepared P3HT electrospun nanofiber-based OFETs by a coaxial electrospinning technique. The nanofibers consist of a P3HT core and poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA) shell, followed by a solvent extraction of PMMA, as schematically illustrated in Figure 1 . Three different solvents for the core polymer including chloroform, chlorobenzene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene were utilized to manipulate the P3HT solution properties. We investigated the solvent-regulated, morphological and structural features of the P3HT electrospun nanofibers through dynamic light scattering (DLS), scanning electronic microscopy (SEM), X-ray diffraction (XRD) and photoluminescence (PL) characterizations, as well as their influences on the ductility of P3HT electrospun nanofibers and the corresponding charge-carrier mobility for OFETs. Our experimental results and analyses indicate that a higher solubility in the chloroform system greatly facilitates P3HT chain stretching along the long axis of the nanofiber during electrospinning, which in turn enables the formation of highly oriented crystalline grains after thermal annealing and leads to improvement both on the ductility of P3HT electrospun nanofibers and the performance of P3HT electrospun nanofiber-based OFETs.
Polychloroarenes can be dehalogenated with sodium formate in propan-2-ol using RhCl(PPh3)3 as the catalyst. The hydrogenolysis of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene is selective to 1,2-dichlorobenzene, whereas the hydrogenolysis of 1,3- and 1,4-dichlorobenzene is sequential and selective according to the sequence: chlorobenzene > benzene.
Abstract Binary mixtures of various liquids (components 1) with the n-alkane series (components 2) have given many results for the following excess or mixing functions (X E or ΔX). Of particular interest are: (1) the trend of X E with n; (2) change of X E when the n-C n are replaced by the corresponding series of highly-branched alkane isomers, and (3) comparison with theoretical predictions. Certain theories, e.g. van der Waals 1, fail in their present form due to neglecting the Prigogine number of external degrees of freedom, c, whereas the Flory, incorporating c, gives useful predictions which form a “base-line” against which to see special effects. For instance, when component 1 is a quasi-spherical inert molecule, e.g. cyclohexane or CCl 4 , anomalous positive contributions occur in H E , S E and V E , but negative in C P E , ΔC v and ΔαγVT, dV E /dT and ΔγVT, while G E and dV E /dP seem little affected. These effects are usually attributed to a net decrease of structure during mixing due to a destruction of short-range orientational order in n-C n . When component 1 is a plate-like molecule, e.g. 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene or chloronaphthalene these effects are decreased or reversed in sign. This has been ascribed to a net increase of structure due to a change of molecular conformation or a hindrance of molecular motion. When component 1 is an alcohol, the n-C n are relatively inert while component 1 is associated in both the pure and solution states leading to + or - effects in C P E depending on whether the solution or pure component 1 is the more structured. Recently Grolier, Wilhelm and Inglese have shown that when component 1 is an ether or ketone, C P E may show an unusual concentration dependence with a double minimum, perhaps again due to molecular association or to conformational changes.
All three isomers of trichlorobenzene were reductively dechlorinated to monochlorobenzene via dichlorobenzenes in anaerobic sediment columns. The dechlorination was specific: 1,2,3- and 1,3,5-trichlorobenzene were solely transformed to 1,3-dichlorobenzene, while 1,4-dichlorobenzene was the only product of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene transformation. Microorganisms were responsible for the observed transformations. Since monochlorobenzene and dichlorobenzene are mineralized by bacteria in the presence of oxygen, the process of reductive dechlorination may be an important initial step to obtain complete mineralization of otherwise recalcitrant trichlorobenzenes. This is especially true for the 1,3,5-isomer, which seems to resist biodegradation in oxic environments.
Four new mixed 3(4), 12(13), 21(22), 30(31)-tetra(tert-butyl)phthalocyaninato tetrakis(4-pyridyl)porphyrinato rare earth triple-decker complexes M2(TPyP)(TBPc)2 (M˭Ce, Sm, Tb, and Tm) have been prepared by treating M(acac)(TPyP) with corresponding homoleptic substituted bis(phthalocyaninato) rare earth complexes M(TBPc)2 in refluxing 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB), typical for the light, middle, and heavy rare earths, respectively. Typical IR marker bands of the substituted phthalocyanine dianion Pc(TBPc)2− show strong bands at ca. 1323 cm−1, and are attributed to pyrrole C˭C stretchings. The TPyP2− IR marker band at ca. 1270–1300 cm−1 was not observed for these compounds. A very strong band at 1500 cm−1 with contributions from both pyrrole C˭C and aza C˭N stretchings and also isoindole stretching was the marker Raman band of (TBPc)2−. Their electrochemical properties were investigated by cyclic voltammetry and differential pulse voltammetry. The four complexes were also characterized by EA, MS, and UV-vis ...
The influence of Pd loading was studied for the gas phase catalytic hydrodechlorination of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene over Pd supported on Mg-Al mixed oxide support with Mg:Al ratio 2:1. The Mg-Al support was prepared from hydrotalcite precursor. A series of catalysts was prepared with different loadings of Pd (1–6 wt%) on Mg-Al mixed oxide support. The performance of catalytic material was evaluated at different temperatures ranging from 425–575K. The fresh and used catalysts were characterized with different analytical techniques such as BET surface area, X-ray diffraction studies, Temperature programmed reduction, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy and CO-chemisorption studies. H2-Temperature programmed desorption studies was also performed to understand the metal-support interaction and suitable active sites. The 4wt% of Pd on Mg-Al mixed oxide catalyst showed the highest conversion and selectivity among all catalysts and maintained steady activity with 10 h of time-on-stream studies. The main reasons for high activity are suitable metal-support interactions, Pd particle size, high surface area, and high surface Pd atomic concentration. The influence of Pd loading was studied for gas phase catalytic hydrodechlorination of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene over Pd supported on Mg-Al mixed oxide support with Mg:Al ratio 2:1. The different Pd-loadings in catalyst was studied for hydrodechlorination. The 4wt% of Pd on Mg-Al mixed oxide catalyst showed the highest performance among all the catalysts.
Single-molecule conductance measurements have focused primarily on organic molecular systems. Here, we carry out scanning tunneling microscope-based break-junction measurements on a series of metal chalcogenide Co6Se8 clusters capped with conducting ligands of varying lengths. We compare these measurements with those of individual free ligands and find that the conductance of these clusters and the free ligands have different decay constants with increasing ligand length. We also show, through measurements in two different solvents, 1-bromonaphthalene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, that the conductance decay of the clusters depends on the solvent environment. We discuss several mechanisms to explain our observations.
Abstract The concentrations of the nicotinamide adenine dinucleotides in rat liver following the administration of substances known to induce acute hepatic porphyria have been studied. The substances investigated were allyl isopropyi acetamide (AIA), Sedormid, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, 1,2,3,4-tetrachlorobenzene and Griseofulvin. Two major points were considered: is there any significant decrease in the total concentration of these nucleotides ? and is there any gross disturbance in their redox state in whole liver samples? Although AIA and the chlorinated benzenes produced an overall decrease in the sum NAD + NADH 2 + NADP + NADPH 2 in the livers of rats exhibiting porphyria this was not true of rats poisoned with Sedormid. There was no consistently significant change in the ratios of NAD:NADH 2 and NADPH 2 :NADP with the various agents tested although the ratio NADP + NAD: NADPH 2 + NADH 2 tended to be elevated with all the drugs studied. Long-term Griseofulvin treatment produced enormous increases in liver size with concomitant increases in the total amount of nucleotide/ whole liver. These changes are discussed.
posure to 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene produces the greatest number of alterations in morphological and fatty acid composition after longer exposure periods (Sicko-Goad et al. 1989b ) whereas exposure to 1,3,5-trichlorobenzene results in large numbers of alterations in these components within 24 hr (Sicko-Goad et al. 1989a) We speculated that either lipid content of the diatoms which fluctuates with the daily photocycle ,or chemical reactivity of the two isomers could explain the pattern of change we observed.
A novel method was developed for the determination of p-isopropyl thiophenol and it 's isomers including m-isopropyl thiophenol,o-isopropyl thiophenol and 4,4′-diisopropyl diphenyl disulfide by capillary gas chromatography(GC) with flame ionization detector(FID) on a DB-5 capillary column.Quantitative analysis was carried out by using 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene as an internal standard.Under the optimal conditions,the calibration curves were linear in the range of 51.2-1 280.5 mg/L for p-isopropyl thiophenol,1.8-46.0 mg/L for m-isopropyl thiophenol,2.1-53.0 mg/L for o-isopropyl thiophenol,and 2.0-51.0 mg/L for 4,4′-diisopropyl diphenyl disulfide.The detection limits of the four compounds were 0.43,0.45,0.53,0.50 mg/L and the RSDs were 0.07%,1.58%,2.32%,2.18%,respectively.The spiked recoveries were in the range of 98%-101%.The method was simple,accurate,convenient and was suitable for the analysis of p-isopropyl thiophenol and its isomers in the real sample.
The kinetic study on the bromine-exchange reaction of antimony tribromide with t-butyl bromide in nitrobenzene or 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene has been carried out, using Br-82 labelled antimony tribromide. The results show that the exchange reaction is first order with respect to t-butyl bromide and 1.5th order with respect to antimony tribromide. It is assumed that the 1.5th order indicates the coexistance of first- and second-order kinetics. Reaction mechanisms for the exchange reaction are proposed.
High resolution gas chromatography (HRGC) coupled to a “purge and trap” extraction-injection technique is described as a method of determining 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene in water at levels as low as parts-per-trillion (ppt). In order to investigate the interference from other volatile organic compounds (VOCs) several detection systems were compared: flame ionization, electron capture, and mass spectrometry-multiple ion detection. Concentrations ranging from 15 to 600 ng/L were analyzed in 20 ml standard aqueous solutions. The mean accuracy of the method varied from 89 to 103%, and its mean precision varied from ± 0.85 to ± 7.5 % for all detectors. The detection limits were 20 ng/L for FID, 2 ng/L for ECD and 0.5 ng/L for MID-MS detectors. The procedure was successfully applied to the analysis of industrial waste waters. The necessity of an appropriate internal standard to improve the quantitative determination and to determine possible losses or degradation of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene during handling or storage is discussed.
Based on the properties of organic contaminants, two representative compounds, 1,4-dichlorobenzene (DCB) and aniline, were chosen to study the influences of them on 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) sorption by CTMAB-bentonite. Both isotherm and kinetics tests of TCB were conducted using fresh CTMAB-bentonite and CTMAB-bentonite preloaded with the representative compounds. In isotherm tests, the results showed that for both fresh and preloaded CTMAB-bentonites, DCB depressed TCB sorption in the lowest residual solution phase concentration ranges of that target solute investigated, while the suppression effect disappeared in its higher residual solution ranges. Aniline showed the same influence as DCB did on TCB sorption by fresh CTMAB-bentonite in isotherm tests. While, aniline enhanced the sorption capacity of TCB in the whole residual solution ranges of TCB in the preloading system. For fresh CTMAB-bentonite system, when co-contaminants concentrations were changed, aniline and DCB decreased TCB sorption at lower co-contaminants concentrations, whereas at the higher co-contaminants concentrations, the competition effect leveled off for DCB, while the TCB sorption was even enhanced for aniline. In kinetics tests, TCB sorption rate was lowered in all bi-solutes systems, except for CTMAB-bentonite preloaded with aniline, which had no influence on TCB sorption rate at all.
A new gas chromatographic procedure for the analysis of trace amount of nitrite ion in water has been developed. The procedure involves the conversion of nitrite ion into 3,4-dichlorobromobenzene which is subsequently determined by electron capture gas chromatography. The coexistence of chloride ion in a large amount with nitrite ion gives rise to the production of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene in addition to 3,4-dichlorobromobenzene.
Abstract Chlorobenzens and heavy metals are frequently detected in the environment, but few studies have assessed the joint toxicity of organic and inorganic contaminants. The joint toxicity of heavy metals and chlorobenzenes was evaluated in the present study. Growth metabolism of the joint toxicity was studied by microcalorimetry at 28 °C, the growth constant ( k ) and inhibitory ratio ( I ) were calculated. Toxic unit ( TU ) and additional index ( AI ) were introduced to determine the outcome in combined tests, and the coexistence of Cu, Cd, Cr(III) and p-chlorobenzene was antagonism, and the effect of Cu, Cd, Cr(III) and o-chlorobenzene, Cu and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene were synergism. In addition, micro-situation of the cell membrane surface of pyriformis Tetrahymena was observed by SEM. The cells suffered serious damage after sufficient acting time. ATR-FTIR spectra revealed that amide groups and PO 2 - of the phospholipid phospho-diester, both in the hydrophobic end exposed to the outer layer, were the easiest to be damaged.
The solubilities of hydrogen bromide and methyl bromide in nitrobenzene and in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene have been measured in the presence and absence of gallium bromide. When gallium bromide does not exist in the system, the solubilities of HBr and MeBr in nitrobenzene are greater than in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, indicating the greater basicity of nitrobenzene than 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. When there exists gallium bromide in the system, the addition compounds, GaBr3·HBr and GaBr3·CH3Br, have been found to exist in solution. The addition compound of GaBr3·HBr is stable in nitrobenzene but unstable in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. On the other hand the addition compound of is unstable in both solvents. All of these unstable addition compounds dissociate into components to large extents according to one of the following equilibria or both: $.$ where R denotes either hydrogen atom or methyl group.
Excess molar volumes, V E , for binary mixtures of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene with 1-butanol, 1-pentanol, 1-hexanol, 1-heptanol, and 1-octanol have been measured at 303.15 K. V E is negative in mixtures rich in alcohols and positive in those rich in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene
The primary objective of this study was to determine if the dissolved oxygen (DO) concentration affects the toxicity of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) to fathead minnows, Pimephales promelas, exposed during the embryonic-to-larval-juvenile development stage. This stage in the growth of the fathead minnow and several other species of fish has been found to be the most sensitive, or among the most sensitive, to chemical pollutants in life-cycle toxicity tests. The chemical 1,2,4-TCB has been identified as a priority pollutant by the US Environmental Protection Agency. It is used as an intermediate in the synthesis of a number of herbicides and insecticides and has been found as a contaminant in fish. It was selected as the chemical stressor in this study in order to provide information useful to the Agency in deriving water quality criteria for the protection of aquatic life.
Abstract Catalytic hydrodehalogenation of aromatic halides was carried out in an alcohol solution containing base compounds in the presence of carbon-supported noble metal catalysts. It was found that dechlorination of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene to benzene effectively occurred in a 2-propanol solution of a base compound such as NaOH or KOH in the presence of Rh/C or Pd/C at temperatures below 65°C. When deuorium-labeled 2-propanol, CD 3 CD(OD)CD 3 , was used as a solvent, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene was dechlorinated to give benzene containing D atoms with high yield, indicating that the hydrodechlorination reaction includes hydrogen-transfer from 2-propanol to chlorobenzenes. Iodo-, bromo- and fluoro-benzenes were also readily dehalogenated in the catalytic system.
Ethylene−vinyl acetate (EVA) copolymers can be semicrystalline or amorphous materials, depending on their chemical composition. A variety of different methods were used for the analysis of the chemical composition distribution of these copolymers, which in general were time- and labor-consuming and could be applied only for a limited range of compositions. In the present work a novel chromatographic method is presented that can be used for chemical composition analysis regardless of the composition of the copolymer. High-temperature gradient HPLC has been found to be suitable for chemical composition separation of semicrystalline and amorphous EVA copolymers. In addition, separation is achieved from the respective homopolymers. We have found that gradients of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene/cyclohexanone, decalin/cyclohexanone, and decalin/1-decanol enable the selective elution of the copolymers from silica gel at 140 °C. The EVA copolymers elute in dependence of their content of the polar vinyl acetate comonomer....
The study presents the possibility to replace the 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) for the analysis by gel permeation chromatography (GPC) of low-density polyethylenes (LDPE) with dibutoxymethane (DBM, butylal), a halogen free and less toxic solvent. The molecular weight distributions and the viscosity plots were measured for commercial LDPE samples solubilized in TCB, and DBM, using a GPC system with triple detection (light scattering, differential refractive index and viscometer). Similar results were obtained in both solvents for the molecular weight and long chain branching distributions of the analyzed resins, thus confirming the possibility to replace TCB with DBM for the analysis by high-temperature GPC of all types of polyolefins.
By the method of water culture, this paper studied the effects of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) on the seed germination and seedling growth of rice, with the chlorophyll, protein and proline contents and cytomembrane permeability of seedling leaf measured. The results showed the seed germination rate and vigor index were decreased with increasing concentration of 1,2,4-TCB, showing a definite dose-response relationship, and the seedling growth and root length were inhibited, showing definite time-response and dose-response relationships. The chlorophyll a, chlorophyll b, total chlorophyll, and protein contents in seedling leaf decreased with increasing concentration of 1,2,4-TCB, while the free proline content and cytomembrane permeability had a sharp increase when the concentration of 1,2,4-TCB was higher than 15 mg x L(-1). All of these suggested that the damage of rice seedling was a complicated process, which might be related to the structural and functional damage of cellular membrane, protein, and organelles.
Abstract We evaluated the attractiveness of novel synthetic host plant volatiles alone and in combination with the synthetic aggregation pheromone, grandisoic acid (GA), to overwintered adult plum curculio, Conotrachelus nenuphar (Herbst) (Coleoptera: Curculionidae) in association with black masonite pyramid traps deployed in an unsprayed apple orchard in 2003 and 2004. Synthetic host plant volatiles evaluated included (1) those identified from foliar and woody tissues of a nonfruiting Stanley plum tree (6-Tree) or the two major components (2-Tree); (2) those identified from Stanley plum fruit (7-Plum) or two components eliciting positive GC-EAD response from plum curculios (2-Plum); and (3) benzaldehyde formulated into rubber septa and replaced weekly [Ben(s)] or dispensed into polyethylene vials and replaced weekly [Ben(r)], not replaced [Ben(nr)], and formulated with 10% 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and not replaced [Ben(TCB)]. In 2003, the greatest numbers of plum curculios were captured in traps baited wit...
ABSTRACT We evaluated the attractiveness of novel synthetic host plant volatiles alone and in combination with the synthetic aggregation pheromone, grandisoic acid (GA), to overwintered adult plum curculio, Conotrachelus nenuphar (Herbst) (Coleoptera: Curculionidae) in association with black masonite pyramid traps deployed in an unsprayed apple orchard in 2003 and 2004. Synthetic host plant volatiles evaluated included (1) those identiÞed from foliar and woody tissues of a nonfruiting Stanley plum tree (6-Tree) or the two major components (2-Tree); (2) those identiÞed from Stanley plum fruit (7-Plum) or two components eliciting positive GC-EAD response from plum curculios (2-Plum); and (3) benzaldehyde formulated into rubber septa and replaced weekly [Ben(s)] or dispensed into polyethylene vials and replaced weekly [Ben(r)], not replaced [Ben(nr)], and formulated with 10% 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and not replaced [Ben(TCB)]. In 2003, the greatest numbers of plum curculios were captured in traps baited with 6-Tree ϩ GA and Ben(TCB) ϩ GA, with responses to these baits signiÞcantly greater than responses to unbaited control traps. In 2004, the greatest number of plum curculios was captured in traps baited with 6-Tree(h) (high release rate dispenser) ϩ Ben(TCB) ϩ GA, with response to this bait signiÞcantly greater than responses to unbaited traps. Combined results indicate that volatiles released by foliar and woody tissues of plum are at least as attractive as the single fruit-based attractant, benzaldehyde, when combined with GA and point toward more competitive attractants for plum curculio based on multiple component blends of volatiles released by the entire tree.
A soil-borne microbial community isolated from a contaminated site was previously shown to mineralize 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) under aerobic conditions. The key degrader in this community was identified as Bordetella sp. F2. The objective of the study was to test the capacity of the microbial community to degrade a complex mixture of 27 organochlorine compounds and pesticides (OCPs) commonly detected in the environment. The hypothesis was that the microbes would utilize the OCPs as carbon sources at the low concentrations of these compounds, found in natural waters and soil solution. The study was carried out in liquid culture and the changes in concentration of the OCPs were monitored using GC-MS. Data analysis was done using a multivariate analysis method similar to Principal Response Curve (PRC) analysis. Contrary to expectations, the data analysis showed a general trend where higher concentrations were observed in the microbially treated samples relative to the controls. The observed trend was attributed to decreased volatilization due to sorption of the chemicals by microbes since most of the compounds in the cocktail had high Kow values. Nevertheless, when using adequate statistical methods for analysing the very complex data set, correlation of Kow and K(H) values with the loadings of the PRCs showed that three chlorinated mono-aromatics - pentachlorobenzene, pentachloroanisole and octachloroanisole - were amenable to degradation. This provided indications that the community could hold promise for the degradation of higher-chlorinated mono-aromatic OCPs.
Aim: To screen and identify bacteria from contaminated soil samples which can degrade hexachlorocyclohexane (HCH)-isomers based on dechlorinase enzyme activity and characterize genes and metabolites. ::: ::: ::: ::: Methods and Results: Dechlorinase activity assays were used to screen bacteria from contaminated soil samples for HCH-degrading activity. A bacterium able to grow on α-, β-, γ- and δ-HCH as the sole carbon and energy source was identified. This bacterium was a novel species belonging to the Sphingomonas and harbour linABCDE genes similar to those found in other HCH degraders. γ-Pentachlorocyclohexene 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and chlorohydroquinone were identified as metabolites. ::: ::: ::: ::: Conclusions: The study demonstrates that HCH-degrading bacteria can be identified from large environmental sample-based dehalogenase enzyme assay. This kind of screening is more advantageous compared to selective enrichment as it is specific and rapid and can be performed in a high-throughput manner to screen bacteria for chlorinated compounds. ::: ::: ::: ::: Significance and Impact of the Study: The chlorinated pesticide HCH is a persistent and toxic environmental pollutant which needs to be remediated. Isolation of diverse bacterial species capable of degrading all the isomers of HCH will help in large-scale bioremediation in various parts of the world.
Powdered graphite has been explored as column material for adsorption gas chromatography (GC). Surface of graphite has been coated with polyethylene glycol (PEG-6000) for improved separation of halobenzenes. The qualitative performance comparison of bare and coated graphite columns has been carried out with commercial packed and capillary columns regarding various chromatographic kinetic parameters. The reported graphite column can effectively separate three commonly known halocarbons and halobenzenes. Coating of graphite has increased the sensitivity of the halobenzenes due to improvement in peaks symmetry. The RSD values of measured number of theoretical plates for 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene for bare and coated graphite and on commercial PEG-20M are 2.5, 1.4 and 1.3, respectively.
The cytotoxic and genotoxic effects of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB), chlorobenzene (CB), and hexachlorobenzene (HCB) on root growth and DNA strand breakage damage of soybean nuclei in the test soil were studied using the comet assay. Results indicated that the root growth was significantly inhibited, and DNA strand breaks and the comet tail in the root tip nuclei were both induced after 48 h exposure with TCB concentrations of 50, 100, 200, 300 microg g(-1) in the soil. DNA strand breakage was more sensitive to the TCB than the root growth. There was a significant dose-response relationship between the TCB exposure and DNA strand breakage in the soybean nuclei. Thus it is possible for DNA strand breakage to be used as a biomarker of soybean exposed to TCB contamination. Significant cytotoxic threshold concentration of the TCB exposure on the root growth inhibition was determined as 61 microg g(-1) in the soil. The toxicity of 100-1,000 microg g(-1) CB and HCB to the soybean seedlings in the soil were not observed after 48 h or longer exposure.
Poly(Phenylene Sulfide)(PPS) was synthesized from Sodium Sulfide and p-dichlorobenzene in the presence of catalysts and additives.Some catalysts(CH3COONa,PhCOONa,Li3PO3,CaL) and some additives(N,N-dimethylaniline,2,5-dichloronitrobenzene,1,2,4-trichlorobenzene,p-nitrophenol) were investigated,and the solvents(triamylamine,tetramethylene sulfone,N-methylimidazole(NMI),N-methylpyrrolidone(NMP),morpholine) were tested,respectively.The reaction was carried out from 170-210 ℃ for 3 h to 220-240 ℃ for 4 h.The resulting PPS was characterized by FT-IR,Element analysis,TGA and DSC.The molecular weight was determined by intrinsic viscosity method.The results show that: NMI containing 15% NMP can replace NMP as the solvent,and 92% PPS can be obtained at the melting point of 289 ℃ and the average viscosity molecular weight of 48199(Mr),using synthesized complex CaL as a catalyst and N,N-dimethylaniline as an additive.
Ground waters are increasingly vulnerable to pollution by organic chemicals that migrate through the soil mantle. To assess the minimal protection that soil can be expected to provide ground water, the transport and fates of 13 organic pollutants were studied in a sandy soil with low organic matter content (0.087% organic C). Glass columns were packed with soil to a depth of 140 cm in a manner that preserved to the maximum extent possible the characteristics of the original soil profile. In separate experiments, the columns received 14 cm/day of water containing a mixture of approximately 1.0 or 0.2 mg/liter of each of the organic compounds. Quantities of compunds that volatilize from the soil surface were measured, as well as concentrations in the column effluent. Chloroform (trichloromethane), 1,2-dibromo-3-chloropropane, dichlorobromomethane, 1,2-dichloroethane, tetrachloroethene, 1,1,2-trichloroethane, and trichloroethene were not degraded in this soil. These compounds percolated rapidly through the soil; their retardation factors (velocity of tritiated water through soil divided by apparent velocity of pollutant through soil) were 2.5 or less. Between 19 and 65% of the material applied to the surface percolated to a depth of 140 cm, and the remainder volatilized. Chlorobenze e 1,4-dichlorobenzene, and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene also percolated through the soil;more » retardation factors were 1.7, 3.4, and 9.4, respectively. Between 26 and 49% of the material applied reached 140 cm. Toluene and nitrobenzene degraded in some of the columns but not in others. In the absence of degradation, 60 and 80% of nitrobenzene and 13% of toluene applied to the soil surface reached 140 cm. The retardation factors were 2.3 or less. Bis(2-chloroethyl)ether did not degrade; 86% of the material applied reached 140 cm, and the compounds's retardation factor was <1.5.« less
Abstract We present quantitative UV-absorption spectra in the wavelength range 200 to 400 nm and the temperature range 150 to 600 °C for anthracene, xanthone, pyrene, 1-bromopyrene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene obtained at 1 atm of air in a slowly flowing gas mixture. As a general trend, the spectra shift to the red with increasing temperature and decrease in peak intensity thus leading to a loss of the characteristic structure of the spectrum. The absorption integrated over a particular band generally stays constant or slightly decreases with increasing temperature.
Hexachlorobenzene (HxCBz) owns the chemical structure of one benzene ring and six H atoms substituted by Cl atoms and it is a persistent organic pollutant present in flue gas from municipal solid waste incineration as an important precursor of dioxins. Its removal was studied using gliding arc plasma treatment, coupled downstream with a V2O5–WO3–TiO2 catalyst. Several parameters (input voltage, O2 concentration, catalytic temperature and catalyst position) all influenced its removal efficiency (RE). Optimal parameter settings were tentatively determined, i.e., an input voltage of 15 kV, the temperature of the catalyst (250 °C), and the O2 concentration (30 vol% O2) tested at a single, fixed concentration of gaseous HxCBz (71.6 ng Nm−3). A maximum RE of 76 ± 3% HxCBz was attained, with the plasma and coupled catalyst combined. Two destruction pathways, incorporating dechlorination and oxidation reactions, were recognised, both based on the detection of end- and intermediate products as well as of active species produced by the plasma. These end- and intermediate products included: low chlorinated polychlorobenzenes (mainly 1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene) as well as hydrocarbons (mainly C2H6), HCOOH, CH4, CO, CO2, etc.
Abstract We present the preparation of giant organic thin single-crystals of 2,5-bis(4-biphenylyl)thiophene (BP1T), a thiophene/phenylene co-oligomer (TPCO). Large-size well-defined hexagon crystals of BP1T were obtained by recrystallization from 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene solution using the constant-volume decreasing-temperature method under various conditions. The largest crystal had a size of 7.6 × 4.4 mm. We describe the detailed growth procedure and characterization of the resulting crystals. The polarizing microscope observation of the crystals confirms that they are present as single-crystals. In virtue of the large size of the crystal we were able to fabricate three field-effect transistor (FET) devices on one single crystal. The devices showed normal p-type FET characteristics. Furthermore, the emission features are examined. Major emission peaks were spectrally narrowed with increasing excitation energies. Several crystals exhibited the narrowed emission lines accompanied by many concentric fringes of various sizes. These observations strongly indicate that the emission is a coherent radiation.
The degradation effects and mechanism of 1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene(1,2,4-TCB) in Selenastrum carpricornutum were discussed in this paper.The results showed that the degradation abilities differs with initial 1,2,4-TCB concentrations.The highest degradation rate was 52.8% occurs at 1.0 mg·L-1,and the half life of degradation was 6.62 d.The growth of Selenastrum carpricornutum was inhibited when initial concentration of 1,2,4-TCB was above 5 mg·L-1,but the growth ability of Selenastrum carpricornutum was recovered when the alga lived through the adaptive phase.Further determination with GC-MS analysis technique showed that the major degradation pathway of 1,2,4-TCB was the replacement of chloric substituent by other active groups.
A GC-MS method was developed for the determination of 16 kinds of harmful substances(e.g.methanol,volatile halohydrocarbons,benzene homologues,the free toluene diisocyanate and hexane diisocyanate)in solvent based coatings.The extraction and separation efficiencies of targeted compounds by using organic solutions of ethyl acetate,n-hexane,tetrahydrofuran and acetonitrile were investigated.The procedure of sample pre-treatment and the conditions of instruments were optimized.The quantitative analysis of compounds were carried out by using 2-bromopropane and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene as the internal standard,and acetonitrile as extraction reagent.The result indicated that the calibration curves of the 16 harmful substances were linear in the range of 5-200 mg/L with correlation coefficients no less than 0.999.The spiked recoveries ranged from 80% to 105% with relative standard deviations less than 5.0%.The detection limits ranged from 0.08 mg/L to 1.41 mg/L.The method was rapid,sensitive and accurate.
The aggregation of conjugated polymers is found to have a significant influence on the surface organization of deposited films. Difluorobenzothiadiazole-based polymers show a strong pre-aggregation in solution, but the addition of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene efficiently reduces such aggregates, leading to the transition of the surface organization from edge- to face-on orientation in deposited films.
Administration of monochlorobenzene (MCB), p-dichlorobenzene (DCB), or 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) at single doses of 800 mg/kg produced an increase in the total porphyrin content of liver of day-old chicks. Porphyrinogenic activity was higher in DCB- and TCB-treated chicks than in MCB-treated chicks. Administration of any of these compounds to chick embryos (40 mg/egg) failed to produce an induction of liver porphyrins. TCB enhanced the excretion of porphyrin in bile of chicks but not of chick embryos. In day-old chicks TCB increased hepatic cytochrome P-450 levels and the activity of 7-ethoxyresorufin deethylase. However, 7-ethoxycoumarin deethylase activity was decreased while cytosolic glutathione S-transferase activity was unchanged. These results point out the differential response of chick embryos and day-old chicks to chlorobenzene-induced changes in porphyrin metabolism as well as the differential induction of microsomal monooxygenases in chicks by TCB.
A pot experiment was conducted to study the effects of UV-B radiation enhancement alone, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) contamination soil alone, and the combined stress on the growing process, stomatal resistance and leaf structure of green vegetable. The results showed that 1,2,4-TCB contamination alone had more significant inhibitory effect on the growth of green vegetable than the combined stress. Both UV-B radiation enhancement and 1,2,4-TCB contamination reduced the stomatal resistance of front and reverse leaves. Enhanced UV-B radiation resulted in the albino of leaves. 1,2,4-TCB contamination resulted in the fading of leaf color and the appearing of black spots on leaf surfaces, and the enhanced UV-B radiation strengthened the black-spot symptom. In conclusion, the effects of UV-B radiation enhancement alone, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) contamination soil alone and the combined stress on the growth indicators of green vegetable were different.
Lindane is a persistent organic pollutant (POP) and its removal from various environmental compartments is a global priority. In the present study, three lindane degrading bacterial cultures, viz. Pseudoarthrobacter sp., Pseudomonas sp. and Klebsiella sp., were selected from among ten isolates obtained from lindane-exposed soils by enrichment culture technique. The cultures exhibited a maximum lindane degradation efficiency of ~50%, having little significance in bioremediation. However, in the presence of protozoa (ciliates) obtained from the same enrichment culture, lindane degradation efficiency of bacterial cultures increased to the tune of 90-92% with concomitant formation of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, a key degradation product. Lindane degradation by the bacterial cultures was also found to get enhanced by 10-15% in the presence of root exudates of lindane-tolerant plants, viz. corn, chili and coriander, even though these plants were unable to uptake any lindane and thus were unsuitable for phytoremediation per se. These data highlight the need for an intensive investigation on (a) bacteria-protozoa interactions for bioremediation of POPs and (b) use of POP-degrading bioinoculants in the rhizospheric soil of resistant plants as a possible alternative, in the absence of a viable conventional remedial option.
Rats were continuously exposed to 0, 25, 100, or 400 ppm 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) in the drinking water, beginning with birth of the F0 generation and continuing through weaning of the F2 generation. The treatment did not affect fertility, growth, viability, locomotor activity, or blood chemical analysis. Adrenal gland enlargement was observed in both the F0 and F1 animals at 95 d of age. To further examine the adrenal enlargement found in the reproduction study, an acute toxicity study was undertaken in which immature females were given ip injections of 0, 250, or 500 mg/kg TCB on 3 consecutive days. It was found that TCB had no estrogenic activity and that the livers and adrenals of treated females were significantly larger than those of controls. Rather than being estrogenic, TCB in this treatment regimen resulted in a decrease in uterine weight. These two studies demonstrate that chronic or acute doses of TCB can produce adrenal enlargement in rats.
General. All reagents were of the highest grade available and used as received. Sarcosine and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene were purchased from Wako Pure Chemicals (Osaka), and fullerene was from Tokyo Kasei. Deionized water purified with a Milli-Q water purification system (Millipore) was used throughout the experiments. STM observation was performed on a Nanoscope E (Digital Instruments, Santa Barbara, CA) at ambient temperature under air.
atives. Cobalt(II) 5,15-bis-(4-octadecyloxyphenyl)porphyrin (CoPor) (Fig. 1a) was dissolved in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene at a concentration of 0.5 mg͞ml. Zinc(II) 5,15-bis(4-octadecyloxyphenyl)porphyrin (ZnPor) and 5,15-bis(4-octadecyloxyphenyl)-porphyrin (FBPor) (Fig. 1a) were codissolved in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene at a molar ratio of 1:3 and total concentration of 1.0 mg͞ml. Either one of the solutions was applied onto a basal plane of a freshly cleaved surface of HOPG. Within minutes after the deposition of the solution, STM observations were performed at the solution͞HOPG interface typically with a bias voltage of Ϫ1.2 to Ϫ1.5 V and a tunneling current of 0.3-0.5 nA. In the STM observations, a chemically selective change in image contrast (see below) was observed by using 50-60% of Ϸ80 MPF tips that exhibited molecular resolution. The remainder of the This paper was submitted directly (Track II) to the PNAS office.
Hexachlorobenzene was dechlorinated to tri-and dichlorobenzenes in anaerobic sewage sludge. The complete biotransformation of 190 ,uM hexachlorobenzene (-50 ppm) occurred within 3 weeks. The calculated rate of hexachlorobenzene dechlorination was 13.6 ,umol liter-' day-l. Hexachlorobenzene was dechlorinated via two routes, both involving the sequential removal of chlorine from the aromatic ring. The major route was hexachlorobenzene -* pentachlorobenzene -* 1,2,3,5-tetrachlorobenzene -* 1,3,5-trichlorobenzene. Greater than 90% of the added hexachlorobenzene was recovered as 1,3,5-trichlorobenzene, and there was no evidence for further dechlorination of 1,3,5-trichlorobenzene. The minor route was hexachlorobenzene --pentachlorobenzene -* 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene --1,2,4-trichlorobenzene -* dichlorobenzenes. These results extend reductive dechlorination to poorly water soluble aromatic hydrocarbons which could potentially include other important environmental pollutants like polychlorinated biphenyls.
A propylene-ethylene random copolymer was fractionated by preparative temperature rising elution fractionation (TREF). The structural heterogeneity of the bulk sample and its TREF fractions was studied by high temperature liquid chromatography with a solvent gradient elution from 1-decanol to 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. HPLC alone cannot resolve those propylene-ethylene copolymers with high ethylene content in the bulk sample, due to their low weight fractions in the bulk sample and a small response factor of these components in the ELSD detector, as well as their broad chemical composition distribution. These components can only be detected after being separated and enriched by TREF followed by HPLC analysis. Chemical composition separations were achieved for TREF fractions with average ethylene contents between 2.1 and 22.0mol%, showing that copolymers with higher ethylene contents were adsorbed stronger in the Hypercarb column and eluted later. All TREF fractions, except the 40°C fraction, were relatively homogeneous in both molar mass and chemical composition. The 40°C fraction was rather broad in both molar mass and chemical composition distributions. 2D HPLC showed that the molar masses of the components containing more ethylene units were getting lower for the 40°C fraction. HPLC revealed and confirmed that co-crystallization influences the separation in TREF of the studied propylene-ethylene copolymer.
Abstract In laboratory experiments the mineralisation of 14 C-labelled 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) in soils was studied by direct measurement of the evolved 14 CO 2 . The degradation capacity of the indigenous microbial population was investigated in an agricultural soil and in a soil from a contaminated site. Very low mineralisation of 1% within 23 days was measured in the agricultural soil. Whereas in the soil from the contaminated site the mineralisation occurred very fast and in high rates; up to 62% of the initially applied amount of 1,2,4-TCB were mineralised within 23 days. The transfer of the adapted microbial population into the agricultural soil significantly enhanced the mineralisation of 1,2,4-TCB in this soil, reflecting, that the transferred microbial population survived and maintained its degradation ability in the new microbial ecosystem. Additional nutrition sources ((NH 4 ) 2 HPO 4 ) increased the mineralisation rates in the first days significantly in the contaminated soil. In the soil from the contaminated site high amounts of non extractable 14 C-residues were formed.
The toxicity data were the foundation of carrying on environmental risk assessment for the chemicals.Chronic toxicity data could truly reflect the influence of poisonous substance to growth,multiplication and physiological function of the aquatic organism.The toxicity-lgNOEC of 17 chlorobenzenes to the bacteria in the Yangtze River was determined by using the bacteria growth inhibition test,and the range of toxicity was from 4.27 for chlorobenzene to 5.22 for 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene.The quantitative structure-activity relationship(QSAR) models were developed for the toxicity by using Quantum chemical descriptors.The results indicated that the chronic toxicity to the river bacteria was mainly related to the size of space of molecule.The chronic toxicity of chlorobenzenes to the river bacteria was described perfectly by Vander waals area of Quantum chemical descriptors(S_(VdW)) and(H_f).
Grass shrimp (Palaemonetes pugio) were exposed to either waterborne or sediment-source concentrations of fenvalerate, cypermethrin, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB), tributyltin oxide (TBTO), triphenyltin oxide, and di-n-butylphthalate in static or flow-through test systems. Similarly, amphioxus (Branchiostoma caribaeum) were tested with fenvalerate, TCB, and TBTO. The LC50 and no-effect and 100% mortality concentrations are reported from 96-hr and 10-day tests. The toxicity of contaminated sediments could be explained by chemical partitioning into overlying or interstitial water. Amphioxus is not recommended as a routine test species because of (1) difficulty in distinguishing severely affected from dead individuals, (2) inability to determine the status of burrowed animals without disrupting sediment, (3) their relative lack of sensitivity in acute exposures to toxic chemicals, and (4) difficulty in routine collection of sufficient numbers of animals. Grass shrimp, however, are useful as an epibenthic test species for waterborne and sediment-source toxicants.
We present here the construction of a self-assembled two-dimensional network at the liquid/solid interface using a hexagonal pyridine macrocycle which binds an organic cation in its intrinsic porous space by electrostatic interactions. For this purpose, a hexagonal pyridinylene-butadiynylene macrocycle (PyBM) having six octyloxymethyl groups, PyBM-C8, was synthesized. As guests, tropylium (Tr) tetrafluoroborate and trioxatriangulenium (TOTA) hexafluorophosphate were used. In this study, we focused on (i) the network patterns of PyBM-C8 which change in response to its concentration and (ii) the position of the guest immobilized in the porous space of the macrocycle. Scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) observations at the interface of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) and highly oriented pyrolytic graphite (HOPG) revealed that PyBM-C8 formed four different polymorphs, oblique, loose hexagonal, linear, and rectangular, depending on the solute concentration and annealing treatment. Solvent TCB molecules are likely...
1 Raw materials: 5,10,15,20-tetrakis-(4-aminophenyl) porphyrin (TAPP) and 5,10,15,20-tetrakis-(4-aminophenyl) porphyrin-Zinc(II) (Zn-TAPP) were synthesized according to a previously published method. S1 Bezene-1,4dicarboxaldehyde (BDA); copper(II) sulfate pentahydrate (CuSO 4 ·5H 2 O); toluene (anhydrous, 99.8%); chloroform (anhydrous> 99%); and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (anhydrous> 99%) where purchased from Sigma-Aldrich and used without further purification. Highly-oriented pyrolytic graphite (HOPG) substrates (12 mm, grade ZYB) where purchased from Bruker AXS. Glass reaction tubes were 15 mL pressure tubes with PTFE screw cap and CAPFE O-ring seal purchased from ACE Glass Inc.
The effects of the higher chlorinated benzene and phenol congeners as inducers of the hepatic microsomal drug-metabolizing enzymes have been determined in the immature male Wistar rat by comparing the enzymic, electrophoretic, and spectral properties of the microsomes. 3,4,5-Trichlorophenol, 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene, 1,2,3,5-tetrachlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, and pentachlorobenzene induced 4-dimethylaminoantipyrine (DMAP) N-demethylase, an enzyme induced by phenobarbitone (PB) and several PB-type inducers. Hexachlorobenzene induced DMAP N-demethylase and aldrin epoxidase, two PB-inducible enzymes, and benzo[a]pyrene hydroxylase and ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase, two enzymes induced by 3-methylcholanthrene (MC). This mixed-type induction pattern has been previously reported for hexachlorobenzene. The remaining higher chlorinated benzene and phenol congeners were inactive as inducers of the drug-metabolizing enzymes in the immature male Wistar rats.
Abstract Clay-based adsorbents were synthesized by incorporating anionic surfactants, sodium octylsulfate (SOS), sodium dodecylsulfate (SDS), sodium 4-octylbenzenesulfonate (SOBS), and sodium dodecylbenzenesulfonate (SDBS), into magnesium aluminum layered double hydroxide (Mg–Al LDH) via ion exchange. Adsorption isotherms indicated the amount of surfactants intercalated decreased in the order: SDS>SOBS>SDBS>SOS. X-ray diffraction analysis of the organo-LDHs revealed that surfactant molecules could adopt various configurations within the Mg–Al LDH interlayer space, with SOS forming bilayers whereas others exhibited monolayer arrangements. Intercalation of surfactants into Mg–Al LDH resulted in a decrease in surface area as determined by BET analysis. The products were also examined for their ability to adsorb organic pollutants. The adsorption results indicated that both 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and 1,1,1-trichloroethane could be adsorbed by all of the organo-LDHs studied, presumably due to partitioning, with adsorption affinity dependent upon the type of surfactant used. Adsorption results indicated anionic surfactants intercalated into Mg–Al LDH form a more effective partition phase than octanol.
The chlorocatechol 1,2-dioxygenase gene,designated as tcbC(J5-2)(GenBank Accession No.EF111021),was cloned from total DNA of Pseudomonas aeruginosa J5-2 which can degrade 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene.The deduced amino acid sequence analysis of tcbC(J5-2)shows that it is different from tcbC(P51)cloned from another 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene-degrader Pseudomonas sp.P51.tcbC(J5-2)is only 95% similar to tcbC(P51)at the amino acid level.Three critical amino acid residues in tcbC(J5-1)are Leu-48,Ala-52,and Ile-73.Otherwise,they are Val-48,Ala-52,and Met-73 in tcbC(P51).mRNA accumulation of tcbC in J5-2 was quantified by real-time reverse transcription-PCR,when J5-2 grew on 1,2-dichlorobenzene,1,3-dichlorobenzene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene respectively.The results show that 1,2,4-trichlorobenzen is a better inducer than 1,2-and 1,3-dichlorobenzene.
A study of the spin-crossover (SCO) behavior of the tridimensional porous coordination polymer {Fe(bpac)[Pt(CN)4]} (bpac=bis(4-pyridyl)acetylene) on adsorption of different mono- and polyhalobenzene guest molecules is presented. The resolution of the crystal structure of {Fe(bpac)[Pt(CN)4]}⋅G (G=1,2,4-trichlorobenzene) shows preferential guest sites establishing π⋅⋅⋅π stacking interactions with the host framework. These host-guest interactions may explain the relationship between the modification of the SCO behavior and both the chemical nature of the guest molecule (electronic factors) and the number of adsorbed molecules (steric factors).
Gel-permeation chromatography (GPC) was utilized for fractionating poly(γ-benzyl-L-glutamate) (PBLG) polymerized from N-carboxylanhydrides. The resolving power of this GPC column was checked by several monodisperse materials such as Gramicidin D, carbobenzoxy-L-Leu-L-Leu-L-Val-L-Phe-methyl ester, diketopiperazine, and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB). The fractionation efficiency was analyzed by comparison of the molecular-weight distribution of fractionated PBLG and that of unfractionated PBLG, which was determined by the relation between molecular weights of PBLG samples and their elution volumes. On the basis of these results we conclude that GPC offers a useful method of obtaining the monodisperse PBLG whose Mw/Mn ratio is less than 1.1.
The conductance and the decay of conductance as a function of molecular length within a homologous series of oligoynes, Me3Si—(C≡C)n—SiMe3 (n = 2, 3, 4, or 5), is shown to depend strongly on the solvent medium. Single molecule junction conductance measurements have been made with the I(s) method for each member of the series Me3Si—(C≡C)n—SiMe3 (n = 2, 3, 4, and 5) in mesitylene (MES), 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB), and propylene carbonate (PC). In mesitylene, a lower conductance is obtained across the whole series with a higher length decay (β ≈ 1 nm–1). In contrast, measurements in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and propylene carbonate give higher conductance values with lower length decay (β ≈ 0.1 and 0.5 nm–1 respectively). This behavior is rationalized through theoretical and computational investigations, where β values are found to be higher when the contact Fermi energies are close to the middle of the HOMO–LUMO gap but decrease as the Fermi energies approach resonance with either the occupied or unoccupied ...
Heptakis(6-O-tert-butyldimethylsilyl)-β-cyclodextrin (TBDMS-β-CD) effectively forms inclusion complexes with chlorinated benzenes in nonpolar solvents such as benzene-d6 and cyclohexane-d12. The inclusion selectivity toward 1,2- and 1,3-dichlorobenzenes can be switched by changing the solvent from benzene-d6 to cyclohexane-d12. Moreover, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (90 ppm) is perfectly removed from insulating oil by using TBDMS-β-CD as an adsorbent.
The effects of 5 mg/L 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) and 0.1 mmol/L mercury ion (Hg2+) stresses on Ca2+ fluxion and protein phosphorylation in rice seedlings were investigated by isotope exchange kinetics and in vitro phosphorylation assay. The Ca2+ absorption in rice leaves and Ca2+ transportation from roots to leaves were promoted significantly in response to Hg2+ and TCB treatments for 4-48 h. The Ca2+ absorption peaks presented in the leaves when the rice seedlings were exposed to Hg2+ for 8-12 h or to TCB for 12-24 h. Several Ca2+ absorption peaks presented in the roots during rice seedlings being exposed to Hg2+ and TCB, and the first Ca2+ absorption peak was at 8 h after being exposed to Hg2+ and TCB. The result of isotope exchange kinetic analysis confirmed that short-term (8 h) Hg2+ and TCB stresses caused Ca2+ channels or pumps located on plasmalemma to open transiently. The phosphorylation assay showed that short-term TCB stress enhanced protein phosphorylation in rice roots (TCB treatment for 4-8 h) and leaves (TCB treatment for 4-24 h), and short-term (4-8 h) Hg2+ stress also enhanced protein phosphorylation in rice leaves. The enhancement of protein phosphorylation in both roots and leaves corresponded with the first Ca2+ absorption peak, which confirmed that the enhancement of protein phosphorylation caused by TCB or Hg2+ stress might be partly triggered by the increases of cytosolic calcium. TCB treatment over 12 h inhibited protein phosphorylation in rice roots, which might be partly due to that TCB stress suppressed the protein kinase activity. Whereas, Hg2+ treatment inhibited protein phosphorylation in rice roots, and Hg2+ treatment over 12 h inhibited protein phosphorylation in rice leaves. This might be attributed to that not only the protein kinase activity, but also the expressions of phosphorylation proteins were restrained by Hg2+ stress.
Supramolecular nanopatterns of arylene-alkynylene squares with side chains of different lengths are investigated by scanning tunneling microscopy at the solid/liquid interface of highly oriented pyrolytic graphite and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. Self-sorting leads to the intermolecular interdigitation of alkoxy side chains of identical length. Voids inside and between the squares are occupied by intercalated solvent molecules, which numbers depend on the sizes and shapes of the nanopores. In addition, planar and non-planar coronoid polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (i.e., butyloxy-substituted kekulene and octulene derivatives) are found to be able to intercalate into the intramolecular nanopores.
The genetic information encoding metabolic pathways for xenobiotic compounds in bacteria often resides on catabolic plasmids. The aim of the present work was to know the location of the genes for degrading 1,2,4-trichlorobenzen. In this paper a 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene-degrading strain THSL-1 was isolated from the soil of Tianjin Chemical Plant using 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene as the sole carbon source. The strain was identified as Pseudomonas stutzeri through morphologic survey and 16S rDNA sequence determination. A plasmid was discovered from strain THSL-1 by using the alkali lysis method. When the plasmid was transformed into E. coli. JM109 by the CaCl2 method, the transformant could grow using 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene as the sole carbon source and had the degradation function of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. Therefore, it could be deemed that the plasmid carried the degradative genes of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. The average size of the plasmid was finally determined to be 40.2 Kb using selectively three kinds of restricted inscribed enzymes (HindIII, BamHI, and XholI) for single cutting and double cutting the plasmid pTHSL-1, respectively.
The synthesis of the title compound was conducted in analogy to a published procedure [1] . (E)-4,4'-dichlorostilbene (35 mmol), Al powder (2 equiv.), and excess ferrocene (5.5 equiv.) were mixed with hexane (90 ml) and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (90 ml). Anhydrous AlCl 3 (10 equiv.) was added, and the mixture was exposed to microwave irradiation (100°C, 25 min). Ice water (150 ml) was added, the mixture was filtered, the aqueous layer was washed with hexane, and treated with HPF 6 (70 %, 1.2 equiv.). The precipitate was collected, dried and purified by chromatography (neutral aluminium oxide, acetonitrile/dichloromethane 1:4, v/v) to yield 10 %ofthe product. Orange crystals were obtained from acetonitrile. IR and 1 HNMR spectra are available in the CIF.
The conductance, and the decay of conductance, as a function of molecular length within a homologous series of oligoynes, Me 3 Si-(CC) n -SiMe 3 (n = 2, 3, 4, 5) is shown to depend strongly on the solvent medium. Single molecule junction conductance measurements have been made with the I(s) method for each member of the series Me 3 Si-(CC) n -SiMe 3 (n = 2, 3, 4 and 5) in mesitylene (MES), 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) and propylene carbonate (PC).
Supramolecular nanopatterns of arylene-alkynylene squares with side chains of different lengths are investigated by scanning tunneling microscopy at the solid/liquid interface of highly oriented pyrolytic graphite and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. Self-sorting leads to the intermolecular interdigitation of alkoxy side chains of identical length. Voids inside and between the squares are occupied by intercalated solvent molecules, which numbers depend on the sizes and shapes of the nanopores. In addition, planar and non-planar coronoid polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (i.e., butyloxy-substituted kekulene and octulene derivatives) are found to be able to intercalate into the intramolecular nanopores.
Arylene-alkynylenes that carry alkoxy side chains form, after adsorption to graphite, a nanopattern with intra-and intermolecular nanopores. Clusters of otherwise unhinderedly mobile 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene solvent molecules are found in these nanopores. Subtle changes of the pore geometries and/or side chains pointing towards the pore interior translate into varying numbers of intercalated solvent molecules in the intraannular regions. In addition, the intermolecular pores are scalable by the lengths of the alkoxy side chains in a certain range. We showed that the nanopores host alkoxy-substituted kekulene and octulene derivatives.
Abstract Great Lakes Herring Gulls (Larus argentatus) and their eggs have proven to be useful integrators on a lakewide basis of high molecular weight, relatively involatile organochlorine pollutants such as PCRs. A search for relatively volatile organochlorine compounds by GC/MS also revealed the presence of tri- and tetrachloroethylene, and isomers of di-, tri-, tetra-, penta- and hexachlorobenzene in the body lipid of adult Herring Gulls from Lake Ontario. Analysis of pooled eggs from colonies throughout the Great Lakes in 1978 showed that pentachlorobenzene and hexachlorobenzene were ubiquitous contaminants at levels from 14–50 ng/kg and 90–350 ng/kg, respectively. Hexachlorobenzene levels were 2–3 times higher in Lake Ontario than the other lakes, whereas pentachlorobenzene was more evenly distributed geographically. Levels of 1,2,3,4-tetra-, 1,2,4,5-tetra- and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene near the detection limit of 10–20 ng/kg were found in a few samples.
The interaction of 1,2,3,4-tetrachlorobenzene, 2,4,5-trichlorobiphenyl, 2,5,4′-trichlorobiphenyl, a mixture of 1,2,3- and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, and industrial mixtures of polychlorinated biphenyls with potassium persulfate in the presence of potassium perfluorobutyrate has been investigated. The oxidation of highly chlorinated benzenes and biphenyls proceeds with lower conversion than that of the low-chlorinated compounds. The oxidation of the highly chlorinated aromatic substrates is not selective; the reaction mixture contains products of several competitive reactions: addition and elimination of radical species, disproportionation, isomerization, etc. The structures of the products have been determined by means of gas chromatography with mass spectrometric detection.
For naphthalene (NAPH) and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCBz), lethal body burdens (LBB) of 8 ± 3.1 mmol/kg wet wt (ww) and 14 ± 4.5 mmol/kg (ww), respectively, were determined in fathead minnow (Pimephales promelas). LBBs of both compounds were found to increase with increasing lipid content and time-to-death of fish within the same aquarium. The correlation with time-to-death suggests that besides lipid content at least one other factor causes intraspecies variation in LBBs. When intraspecies variation is excluded by comparing mean LBBs from different aquaria and exposure regimes, LBBs still vary with time-to-death. In contrast to the situation within one aquarium, between different aquaria and exposure regimes often a decrease in LBB with time-to-death is found. The present study and others indicate that LBBs can vary with time-to-death. Therefore, a time-independent LBB cannot be assumed.
Microwave irradiation under solvent-free conditions induces 1-acetyl-4-styrylpyrazoles to undergo Diels–Alder cycloaddition reactions with N-methyl- or N-phenylmaleimide to give tetrahydroindazoles in good yields and with high selectivities. With conventional heating, these reactions either do not occur or afford only traces of the cycloadducts. These cycloadducts were then converted into the corresponding 1H-indazoles by dehydrogenation with DDQ in dry 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene under microwave irradiation or classical heating conditions. The structures of all new derivatives and the stereochemistries of the cycloadducts were assigned by NMR spectroscopy. (© Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, 69451 Weinheim, Germany, 2009)
Abstract1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene (TCB) labeled with C-14 was given perorally to rats at a dosage of 50 mg/kg for excretion and distribution studies.About 66% and 17% of the oral dose was excreted in the urine and feces, respectively, within 7 days. Trapped radioactivity in the expired air amounted to 2.1% of the dose, but production of labeled carbon dioxide was negligible. Tissue residues were evenly distributed throughout the organs and tissues examined, except for the adipose tissue which consistently had a little higher concentration.The urinary, fecal and expiratory metabolites were identified. Free 2,4,5- and 2,3,5-trichlorophenol (TCP) and their conjugates were mainly detected in the urine. 5- or 6-Sulfhydryl, methylthio, methylsulfoxide and methylsulfone derivatives of TCB were also detected as minor metabolites. Dichlorobenzenes and unchanged TCB were confirmed in the expired air. Reductive dechlroination seems to be catalysed by intestinal microflora enzymes.
Abstract : Angular distributions of absolute scattered intensity and translational diffusion coefficients of linear (DSM-L30-4-6) and branched (IUPAC sample alpha) polyethylene in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene have been studied by using classical light scattering measurements and Rayleigh line width spectroscopy over a range of concentrations at 135 C. The light scattering intensity studies were used to compare our results on the molecular characterization of polyethylene samples with those reported by the Dutch State Mines (DSM) and by the Working Party, which was formed under the auspices of IUPAC. Evaluation of the time correlation function was performed according to the methods of cumulants, histogram, multiexponentials, and regularization. In addition to determining the molecular weight, the radius of gyration, and the second virial coefficient of the IUPAC alpha branched polyethylene (BPE), we were able to establish the variance of a moderately broad normalized line width distribution function for the DSM sample and to approximate the line width distribution function by using either the histogram, the multiexponential, or the regularization approach for BPE. Originator supplied keywords include: Light scattering, Polyethylene, Chlorobenzene, Diffusion coefficients.
Abstract Strong evidence has been obtained which indicates that film diffusion controls the retention of non-polar organics of low aqueous solubility by the sorbent Tenax-GC. Model compounds which have been studied in this context include the four U.S. Environmental Protection Agency priority pollutants o -dichlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, napththalene, and hexachloro-1,3-butadiene. The data indicate that compounds such as these have large aqueous retention volumes on this sorbent. Once sorbed, little loss occurs for μg/l concentrations and sample volumes of several liters. Equations are developed which predict the percent recovery as a function of cartridge dimensions and sample volume flow rate.
The damage effects of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene(1,2,4-TCB) on the chromosome abnormalities in root meristematic cells of A.sativum seedlings were studied.The results show that 1,2,4-TCB inhibited the mitosis of root meristematic cells of A.sativum seedlings.The mitotic index in root meristematic cells decreased in treated time-response and dose-response manners.Kinds of chromosome abnormalities were induced in root meristematic cells by 1,2,4-TCB such as micronuclei,binucleated cells,pycnosis,nuclear fragmentation,lagging in division cells,equatorial plate deflexion、unequal division.The ratio of chromosome abnormalities increased in dose-response manner.Pycnosis dominated among various kinds of chromosome abnormalities.Conclusion is that 1,2,4-TCB could inhibit the mitosis and damage the chromosomes of root meristematic cells of A.sativum seedlings,suggesting that 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene has clear genetic toxic effects on plant cells.
We present a systematic scanning tunneling microscopy study on the 2D self-assembly of pentagonal shaped macrocycles at the liquid/solid interface to gain insight about 2D pentagonal molecular crystallization. Macrocycles with alkyl ester groups form an anti-parallel type linear pattern mainly via favorable intermolecular interactions between the interdigitated alkyl chains at the 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB)/graphite interface. On the other hand, at the TCB/Au(111) interface, they showed a random pattern and an anti-parallel type linear pattern. The selection between both motifs is ascribed to the balance between the intermolecular and molecule–substrate interactions. Most interestingly, the parent molecule forms dense anti-parallel and parallel linear patterns reflecting the intrinsic pentagonal core shape. Moreover, bright and mobile spots were often observed in the networks to occupy free spaces, including the cavity of the macrocycles, which we attribute to a co-adsorbed solvent molecule or Au ion.
Environmental chemicals are thought to adversely affect human reproductive function, however there are no studies that have explored the association between failed fertilization and exposure of both partners to environmental contaminants. Therefore, we collected blood and follicular fluid from the female partner and seminal plasma from the male partner of 21 couples attending an in vitro fertilization (IVF) program, in order to determine the extent of the existence of environmental chemicals in these fluids. Any relationship to the outcome of IVF was also considered. Sera and fluids were analysed for a variety of contaminants, including polychlorinated biphenyls, pesticides, cotinine, and the steroids progesterone and estradiol. Of the couples examined, 18 had fertilizations, three of whom became pregnant. There were no fertilizations in three other couples. The contaminants most frequently found in follicular fluid, more than 50% of the samples tested, were p,p′-DDE, mirex, hexachloroethane, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, PCB 49, PCB 153, and PCB 180. Cadmium was detected in eight of 21 (38.1%) samples of follicular fluid whereas cotinine was detected in 18 (85.7%). Residue levels of p,p′-DDE, endosulfan I, PCB 99, PCB 138, PCB 153, PCB 180 were quantified in more than 50% of the sera samples examined. Seminal plasma was relatively free of pollutants with mirex being the most frequently detected contaminant found in seven of 21 (33.3%) samples. Mirex could not be detected in the seminal plasma of the husbands whose partner's oocytes failed to fertilize whereas significant levels of mirex were found in the seminal plasma of all couples who had a pregnancy. Cadmium was also found in the follicular fluid of these pregnant subjects. No relationship was found between follicular fluid cotinine in pregnant and non-pregnant subjects. Where identical contaminants were found in both sera and follicular fluids, the levels were about twofold higher in serum and were positively correlated in both fluids. Fertilization was negatively correlated with serum and follicular fluid p,p′-DDE whereas pregnancy was positively correlated with follicular fluid PCB 49. These data reveal that more than 50% of the population of women attending a fertility program have had exposure to environmental chemicals sufficient to produce detectable concentrations in their serum and ovarian follicular fluid. Of the chemical contaminants detected in the serum and follicular fluid of these women, p,p′-DDE was the most frequently detected, had the highest residue levels, and was associated with failed fertilization.
Fullerenes were extracted from graphite soot produced by the Huffman-Kratschmer process by using a number of solvents, including refluxing in xylenes, 1,3,5-trimethylbenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, α,α,α-trichlorotoluene, and 1-methylnaphthalene, and by using high-pressure, high-temperature o-xylene and supercritical carbon tetrachloride. The extract was dried and analyzed using laser desorption/Fourier transform mass spectrometry in order to measure fullerene molecular weight distributions.
Abstract The microstructure of small molecular semiconductors can be readily altered via side group-engineering although they have same conjugated core. Here, we study a variation of morphology and charge transport properties about derivatives of triethylsilylethynyl-modified dibenzochrysene (TES-DBC) depending on side group size. It was verified that the TES-DBC combined with smaller side group developed more favorable morphology to charge carrier transport. The TES-DBC derivative with thienyl ( DTTES-DBC ), the smallest side group, formed well-connected crystal domain with well-ordered molecular assemblies which facilitate fast charge carrier transport. In addition, a high (1,2,4-trichlorobenzene; TCB) and low (chlorobenzene; CB) boiling point was used as processing solvent to observe the effect of the film fabrication time on the molecular ordering according to side group size.
The development of a distributed-feedback dye laser, with a pulse width and a line width of 25 ps and 8.78 pm, respectively, is described. Using this nearly Fourier-transform-limited pulse, we measured the first singlet-excited-state lifetime of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. The tunable picosecond dye laser developed herein has a potential for the lifetime measurement and the efficient multiphoton ionization of aromatic hydrocarbons with a larger number of chlorine atoms and shorter excited-state lifetimes.
A series of amphiphilic heteroleptic tris(phthalocyaninato) europium complexes with hydrophilic poly(oxyethylene) heads and hydrophobic alkoxy tails {Pc[(OC2H4)2OCH3]8}Eu{Pc[(OC2H4)2OCH3]8}Eu[Pc(OCnH2n + 1)8] (n = 6, 8, 10,12) (1−4) were designed and prepared from the reaction between homoleptic bis(phthalocyaninato) europium compound {Pc[(OC2H4)2OCH3]8}Eu{Pc[(OC2H4)2OCH3]8} and metal-free 2,3,9,10,16,17,23,24-octakis(alkoxy)phthalocyanine H2Pc(OCnH2n + 1)8 (n = 6, 8, 10,12) in the presence of Eu(acac)3·H2O (Hacac = acetylacetone) in boiling 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB). These novel sandwich triple-decker complexes have been characterized by a wide range of spectroscopic methods and have been electrochemically studied. With the help of the Langmuir−Blodgett (LB) technique, these typical amphiphilic triple-decker complexes have been fabricated into organic field effect transistors (OFET) with an unusual bottom contact configuration. The devices display good OFET performance with the carrier mobility for ho...
Polyisobntene solutions in n-hexadecane and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene have been mechanically degraded in laminar flow under known and homogeneous stresses up to 105 dyne/cm.2 and at several temperatures in a thin-film, rotational concentric cylinder viscometer. The polymer studied had an Mv of 8.0 × 105 and a broad and completely defined molecular weight distribution. The molecular weight distribution of the starting polymer and the distributions resulting from polymer exposure to shear fields of various intensities were established by both gradient elution and gel permeation fractionation techniques. The data provide an evaluation of the threshold for shear degradation and the efficiency of energy input in achieving polymer reaction. The results aid in understanding the mechanism of reaction and the effect of shear degradation on molecular weight distribution.
Abstract A model was designed and calibrated with accumulation data to calculate the internal concentrations of microcontaminants in organisms as a function of a few constants and variables. The main factors are the exposure time, the external exposure concentration, the partition ratio of the compound, and the size of the taxon concerned. The model was applied to calculate tile lethal and sublethal body burdens of several priority compounds and some major taxa. Estimations were generally confirmed at the order of magnitude level by measured residues and applied doses if available. According to the estimations, most priority compounds chosen were critical for most taxa above internal concentrations of 0.1 mmol · kg −1 wet wt. Trichloromethane, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, and hexachlorobenzene were lethal above this level only, whereas other organic microcontaminants affected at least some taxa at lower body burdens. The log( K ow ) of the organic compounds ranged from 2.0 to 7.0. Keeping in mind that bioconcentration and -magnification ratios for metals may be quite variable, the lowest critical residues estimated were just below the value of 0.1 mmol · kg −1 wet wt. Here, external concentrations encountered in natural habitats seem to be a promising tool for predictive comparative ecotoxicology. The critical body burdens for plants and invertebrates may have been overestimated due to uncertainty about the parameters. Among the different taxa, however, the fish families chosen (Salmonidae and Cyprinidae) seem to be most sensitive to most compounds. Internal response concentrations of the herbicide atrazine were the lowest in micro and macrophytes, whereas parathion affected invertebrates at low levels. The database that provided the external response concentrations was also consulted to estimate so-called extrapolation or safety factors. On average, long-term no effect concentrations in water are estimated to be about 10-30 times below short-term median lethal levels. In general, short-term versus long-term, lethal versus sublethal, and median versus no response concentration ratios each contributed factors of about 2-3 to this overall ratio. The model for internal concentrations indicated that the ratio between the short-term and the long-term LC 50 will be high for large species and high octanol-water partition ratios.
Polymeric photovoltaic (PV) solar cells have been fabricated using six solvents: chloroform (CHCl3), toluene (T), chlorobenzene (CB), orthodichlorobenzene (ODCB), 1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalene (THN) and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB). The active layers were composed of poly(3-hexyl)thiophene (P3HT) and [6,6]-phenyl C61 butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM). Special care has been taken to keep all experimental parameters constant (thickness of the active layers, donor/acceptor weight ratio, area of active surface and electrodes) in order to avoid artefacts and truly study the effect of solvents. Studies using atomic force microscopy (AFM) and optical absorption (UV-vis) showed the relationship between the photovoltaic performance and the evaporation rate of solvents. The use of solvents with high boiling point results in a higher degree of organization in the structure of P3HT. A direct comparison with devices processed with thermal treatment has also been performed. As often reported thermal annealing increases photo-conversion efficiency of devices created from common solvents, due to better separation of phase between the two materials of the blend. In the case of solvents with high boiling point such as THN and TCB, neither phase separation nor modification of P3HT crystallization induced by thermal annealing has been observed. However thermal treatment appears to enhance performance, ensuing the evaporation of remaining solvent in the active layers. An overview of the effect of solvent on the electrical properties of films containing pure P3HT and P3HT:PCBM blend reported in the literature has been completed for the discussion.
Crystalline monolayers of fullerene have been self-assembled at the interface between a 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene solution and an Au(111) surface. In situ scanning tunneling microscopy shows the adsorbate arrangement to be structurally equivalent to that found in films grown by sublimation in ultra-high vacuum. This new kind of ordered monolayer might be useful for performing reactions on fullerenes at the interface between their organic solutions and a solid substrate.
The treatment of phenyl chloroformates 1 with a Lewis acid in the liquid phase resulted in decarboxylation to the corresponding chloroaromatics 2. Fluoroaromatic compounds were synthesized from phenylchloroformates 1 through a sequential fluorination/decarboxylation in the liquid phase by treatment with excess anhydrous hydrogen fluoride under mild conditions. In all cases, yields were increased by performing the reaction in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, which is inert to Friedel-Crafts reactions.
Isobaric heat capacities Cp in the liquid and in the solid phase of 1,2-dichlorobenzene, 1,3-dichlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, 3-chlorophenol and 4-chlorophenol and in the liquid phase of 2-chlorophenol were measured by commercial Setaram heat conduction and power compensated calorimeters. Results obtained cover the following temperature range (depending on the compound and state of aggregation): 1,2-dichlorobenzene 208 to 323 K, 1,3-dichlorobenzene 183 to 323 K, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene 133 to 323 K, 2-chlorophenol from 293 to 353 K, 3-chlorophenol and 4-chlorophenol from 133 to 353 K. The heat capacity data obtained in this work were merged with available experimental data from literature, critically assessed and sets of recommended data were developed by correlating selected data as a function of temperature. Temperature and enthalpy of fusion of two isomeric chlorophenols and of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene were also determined.
In this study, a transform-limited DFB dye laser with a shorter pulse width (< 25 ps) was developed, using a picosecond Nd:YAG laser as a pump source and employing a thinner cuvette for oscillation. The excited-state lifetime of a highly chlorinated benzene derivative, i.e., 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, was then measured by means of a pump-probe method in SSJ/MPI-MS. Moreover, potential advantages in efficient ionization of highly chlorinated dioxins and their surrogates are discussed.
(1) University, Hakozaki, Japan The development of a distributed-feedback dye laser, with a pulse width and a line width of 25 ps and 8.78 pm, respectively, is described. Using this nearly Fourier-transform-limited pulse, we measured the first singlet-excited-state lifetime of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. The tunable picosecond dye laser developed herein has a potential for the lifetime measurement and the efficient multiphoton ionization of aromatic hydrocarbons with a larger number of chlorine atoms and shorter excited-state lifetimes.
In this study, a transform-limited DFB dye laser with a shorter pulse width (< 25 ps) was developed, using a picosecond Nd:YAG laser as a pump source and employing a thinner cuvette for oscillation. The excited-state lifetime of a highly chlorinated benzene derivative, i.e., 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, was then measured by means of a pump-probe method in SSJ/MPI-MS. Moreover, potential advantages in efficient ionization of highly chlorinated dioxins and their surrogates are discussed.
We present photovoltaic devices based on a blend of the conjugated polymer poly(3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT) with cadmium selenide nanorods, where the solvent for film deposition has been carefully chosen to optimize the film morphology. Using 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB), which has a high boiling point, as solvent for P3HT it is possible to obtain a fibrilar morphology, providing extended pathways for hole transport. Blend devices fabricated using this solvent gave solar power conversion efficiencies of 2.6%. This indicates that efficient transport of electrons and holes is achieved in these films, allowing them to operate effectively at solar illumination intensities.
Abstract Inoculating soil with an adapted microbial community is a more effective bioaugmentation approach than inoculation with pure strains in bioremediation. However, information on the potential of different inocula from sites with varying contamination levels and pollution histories in soil remediation is lacking. The objective of the study was to investigate the potential of adapted microorganisms in soil inocula, with different contamination levels and pollution histories, to degrade 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB). Three different soils from chlorobenzene-contaminated sites were inoculated into agricultural soils and soil suspension cultures spiked with 1,2,4-TCB. The results showed that 36.52% of the initially applied 1,2,4-TCB was present in the non-inoculated soil, whereas about 19.00% of 1,2,4-TCB was present in the agricultural soils inoculated with contaminated soils after 28 days of incubation. The soils inoculated with adapted microbial biomass (in the soil inocula) showed higher respiration and lower 1,2,4-TCB volatilization than the non-inoculated soils, suggesting the existence of 1,2,4-TCB adapted degraders in the contaminated soils used for inoculation. It was further confirmed in the contaminated soil suspension cultures that the concentration of inorganic chloride ions increased continuously over the entire experimental period. Higher contamination of the inocula led not only to higher degradation potential but also to higher residue formation. However, even inocula of low-level contamination were effective in enhancing the degradation of 1,2,4-TCB. Therefore, applying adapted microorganisms in the form of soil inocula, especially with lower contamination levels, could be an effective and environment-friendly strategy for soil remediation.
The influence of spatial and temporal environmental variations on rates of organic pollutant biodegradation were assessed by using heterotrophic uptake kinetics. These studies were conducted at three sites, representing the gradient from freshwater to estuarine to marine systems. Of the compounds tested, total uptake Vmax rates decreased in the order of nitrilotriacetic acid, m-cresol, chlorobenzene, and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. In general, the freshwater site exhibited the highest uptake rates, with somewhat lower rates at the estuarine site. Rates at the marine site were much lower than at the other sites, except during the winter. Metabolic rates at both the freshwater and estuarine areas were significantly decreased during periods of low water temperature. Rates at the marine site were relatively uniform throughout the year. Linear regression analysis was used to compare m-cresol biodegradation rates to characteristics of the microbial community, which included direct microscopic counts, CFU counts, and cellular incorporation of amino acids. The observed rates did not consistently correlate well with any of the measured characteristics of the microbial community.
The sorption kinetic of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene from aqueous solution onto CTMAB-bentonite was studied.The sorption experiments were conducted in an agitated batch reactor at various initial 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene concentrations,CTMAB-bentonite dose,solution temperature and the amount of CTMAB during modification.The results show that all sorption processes followed pseudo-second-order kinetics equation.The sorption rate of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene onto CTMAB-bentonite increased respectively with the increase of temperature,the amount of CTMAB during modification,CTMAB-bentonite dose and the decrease of initial 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene concentrations.
Four strains of microorganisms which were able to grow at the presence of 1,4-dichlorobenzene 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and hexachlorobenzene were isolated from the sludge collected from two different sites after incubating about 2 months. During the growth of the mixed microorganisims on chlorobenzenes, the accumulating consumption of oxygen, the microbial population curve and the concentration of released Cl- were investigated. The result showed that the mixed microorganisms were able to utilize 1,4-dichlorobenzen and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene as sole carbon source and energy source. The concentration of released Cl- may depend strongly on the activity of the living cells. The order in which the chlorobenzenes were readily degraded was 1,4-dichlorobenzenez[356.7 micrograms/(L.d)] > 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene[110.4 micrograms/(L.d)] > hexachlorobenzene[approximately 6 micrograms/(L.d)]. The number of the substituted chlorine on the chlorobenzenes directly resulted in the resistance to biodegradation.
Abstract Influences of anionic co-solutes on dechlorination of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (124TCB) by the nanoscale Pd/Fe particles were investigated in batch experiments in the presence of an anionic solute such as nitrate, nitrite, perchlorate, phosphate, carbonate, silica, sulfate, sulfite, or sulfide. Based on the extent of inhibitory effects on the 124TCB dechlorination, the anions can be ranked in the order of: control ≈ sulfate ≈ silica
The effects of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) and naphthalene (NAP) on photosynthetic characteristics of rice leaves were studied. The results showed that chlorophyll content, net photosynthetic rate (Pn), stomatal conductance (Gs), intercellular CO2 concentration (Ci), photochemical efficiency (Fv/Fm), quantum yield of PSII (ΦPSII), potential activity of PSII (Fv/Fo) and photochemical quenching (qP) and non-photochemical quenching (qN) decreased under TCB and NAP stress. The effects of TCB were more serious than that of NAP, while the sensitivity of Shanyou 63 was higher than that of Wuyunjing 7. Under low concentration of organic pollutants, stomatal limitation was a dominating factor for Pn decrease. Under high concentration of organic pollutants, the decrease of Pn was due mainly to stomatal limitation and the non-stomatal limitation. High concentration of pollutants suppressed the synthesis more strongly, and finally reduced the grain yield. Among all of the chlorophyll fluorescence kinetics of parameters, both Fv/Fo and qN are more sensitive to TCB and NAP than the other parameters. Therefore, both Fv/Fo and qN would be the sensitive reference indicator of harm of organic pollutants on rice.
The volatilization of VOC from groundwater into ambient air includes three processes: migration in unsaturated zone, molecular diffusion in viscous sub-layer, mixing and transportation in ambient air. With analysis of the migration mechanism of VOC in these three processes, a mathematical model is developed to calculate the volatilization factor of VOC volatilizing from groundwater into air under evaporation or infiltration.The effect of evaporation or infiltration on volatilization factor can be analyzed with this model, which is helpful to assess health risk caused by the volatilization of VOC in groundwater. With two representative VOCs of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and tetrachloroethylene, their volatilization factors are calculated in sandy soil and clayey soil respectively. The results show that the evaporation strengthens volatilization but the infiltration weakens volatilization. The effect of evaporation or infiltration on volatilization is relative obvious to both semi-volatile 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and volatilizable tetrachloroethylene. Under evaporation, the effect of unsaturated zone soil properties on volatilization factor is tiny; but under infiltration, that become more obvious. Furthermore, if the unsaturated zone soil is clay, the variation of volatilization factor of VOC induced by evaporation or infiltration is more significant.
Mercuration of boiling 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene with mercuric trifluoroacetate yields complex species, which were shown to contain mainly µ-(2,5,6-trichloro-1,3-phenylene)dimercury bridging units and 2,3,6-trichlorophenylmercury terminal groups by halogenodemercuration reactions, and bis(2,3,6-tri-chlorophenyl)mercury, which was independently synthesized from 2,3,6-trichlorophenyllithium and mercuric chloride. The organolithium compound was formed regiospecifically on reaction of 1,2,4-tri-chlorobenzene with butyllithium. Mercuration of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene with mercuric trifluoroacetate (mole ratio 1 : 1) in trifluoroacetic acid results in regiospecific monomercuration giving 2,4,5-trichlorophenylmercuric trifluoroacetate. This compound undergoes rearrangement in boiling 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene to give a 2,3,6-trichlorophenylmercurial, and is considered to be an intermediate in the mercuration synthesis of bis(2,3,6-trichloropheny1)mercury. Thus, in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, the kinetically and thermodynamically favoured mercuration positions differ by contrast with the reported behaviour of 1,2,3-trichlorobenzene. Formation of the complex mercuration products is considered to involve µ-(2,5,6-trichloro-1,3-phenylene)bis(trifluoroacetato)dimercury and bis(2,3,6-trichlorophenyl)mercury as intermediates. The new mercurials, bis(2,3,5-trichloro-phenyl)-, bis(3,4,5-trichlorophenyl)- and bis(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-mercury, have been prepared from the appropriate polychloroanilines by the diazonium route.
Liquid phase hydrodechlorination of chlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, hexachlorobenzene, polychlorinated biphenyls in the ethanol-containing solution, on Me0/C (where Me0-Pd, Ni or bimetallic Ni−Pd; C-carbon material “Sibunit”) with H2 have been studied at 20–70°C and PH 2=1–50 atm. Pd and Pd-promoted Ni catalysts exhibit the highest activity. Kinetic studies show hydrodechlorination of these compounds to be a consecutive reaction, which under the conditions described may produce less chlorinated compounds.
Molecular spoked wheels (MSWs) have gained increasing interest as two-dimensional (2D) carbon-based objects of adjustable sizes [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] . They can be viewed as shape-persistent arylene-alkynylene macrocycles in which the intraannular spoke system increases the stiffness (persistence length) of the ring. They are non-collapsible monodisperse cyclooligomers with a fixed and predictable conformation, and their side-chain substitution guarantees their solubility in organic media. Our previous works on freely rotating chains of rigid rod segments and on shape-persistent macrocycles [6, 7] have recently led us to a set of molecular polygons (macrocycles) of discrete sizes and symmetries, e.g., triangles, squares, pentagons, and hexagons [8] . These represent basic building blocks for a supramolecular Archimedean surface tessellation system [9] . Thereby, the highly oriented pyrolytic graphite (HOPG) acts as a template along the main axis directions of which the alkyl/ alkoxy side chains align [10, 11] , and consequently the superstructures can be viewed as commensurably aligned adlayers. Among a series of characteristic superstructures, a hexagonal pattern is observed for molecular hexagons that self-assemble at the liquid/solid interface of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) and HOPG, however, the molecules tend to collapse (by rotation around the single bonds of two corner units) in the presence of molecular squares [8] . Consequently, an increased under- standing of the 2D self-assembly of MSWs on HOPG should nominally pave the way towards a suitable molecular design for (stiffened) hexagons that is compatible with our previous series and might form cocrystals with other polygons, thus patterns of increased complexity and larger lattice constants become feasible. Our MSW 2 and its precursor 1 were recently investigated by means of single-molecule photoluminescence spectroscopy as model compounds for conjugated oligomers commonly used in polymer light emitting diodes [12] . The chemical structures of both compounds are shown in Figure 1 . Their synthesis and characterization has been reported before [11] . Here, we present scanning tunnelling microscopy (STM) investigations of both compounds, aiming at an extended description of the observed molecular geometries and their supramolecular monolayer and multilayer formation on HOPG.
Thermal gradient interactive chromatography (TGIC) is an emerging analytical tool to determine the chemical composition distribution of polyolefins. TGIC separates polyolefins based on their interaction with graphitic carbon at different temperatures in an isocratic mobile phase. In the case of copolymers of ethylene and 1-olefins, TGIC offers a larger commoner range of separation than crystallization based techniques. However, currently TGIC shows approximately only half of the resolution compared to crystallization based techniques for an ethylene content higher than 92 mol % when 1,2-dichlorobenzene (ODCB) and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) are used as the mobile phase. We conducted a systematic study exploring the potential of using different binary solvent mixtures as the mobile phase to increase the resolution in TGIC of poly(ethylene-stat-1-octene). Apart from the well-established chlorinated aromatic solvents like ODCB and TCB, for the first time, binary solvent mixtures containing alkanes and aliph...
1,2-Dichlorobenzene, 1,4-dichlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, 1,2,3,5-tetrachlorobenzene, and pentachlorobenzene were incubated with microsomes derived from cell lines expressing human CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP3A4, CYP2E1, or CYP2D6. The formation of phenolic metabolites as determined by gas chromatographic analysis revealed that CYP2E1 possessed the highest activity toward all chlorinated benzenes. Furthermore, CYP1A1 and CYP1A2 showed relatively high enzymatic activities toward the lower chlorinated benzenes (1,2-dichlorobenzene, 1,4-dichlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene) and CYP3A4 toward the higher chlorinated benzenes (1,2,3,5-tetrachlorobenzene, pentachlorobenzene). CYP2D6 only showed low or nondetectable activity toward the investigated chlorobenzenes. The ratio between the activities of CYP2E1 and CYP3A4 with respect to the oxidation of chlorinated benzenes decreased from 150 (1,2-dichlorobenzene) to 1.8 (pentachlorobenzene). In order to estimate the relative contribution of CYP2E1 in hepatic metabolism of 1,2-dichlorobenzene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene in vitro, the rate of oxidation of these compounds by microsomal preparations from 22 human livers was correlated with activities toward specific substrates for CYP2E1, CYP3A, and CYP1A. The results were supportive for the results obtained with single human P450 enzymes. CYP2E1 is the major, if not the only, enzyme involved in the formation of 2,3-dichlorophenol, 3,4-dichlorophenol, 2,3,5-trichlorophenol, and 2,3,4-trichlorophenol, while CYP3A4 is responsible for the formation of 2,3,6-trichlorophenol. The formation of the major metabolite from 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (2,4,5-trichlorophenol) was correlated with both CYP2E1 and CYP3A activity. Because of the decreasing ratio in activity between CYP2E1 and CYP3A4 with respect to the oxidation of chlorinated benzenes, it is concluded that the role of CYP2E1 toward chlorinated benzenes decreases with increasing number of chlorine atoms. The relative amount of CYP3A4 present then becomes an important determinant for metabolism.
We have demonstrated high mobility C60 single-crystal field-effect transistors formed by a solution process. 1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene (TCB) C60 solution formed plate like crystals with sizes exceeding 500 µm. We found that the C60 single crystals prepared from solution consist of two TCB molecules per C60 molecule, with a triclinic crystal structure. TCB molecules in C60 crystals are extracted by an annealing process, and the crystal structure was changed to a face-centered-cubic structure. The C60 single crystal prepared from TCB solution showed typical n-channel operation and high electron mobilities of up to 1.4 cm2 V-1 s-1.
Chlorobenzenes are ubiquitous contaminants in groundwater and soil at many industrial sites. Previously, we demonstrated the natural attenuation of chlorobenzenes and benzene at a contaminated site inferred from a 5 year site investigation and parallel laboratory microcosm studies. To identify the microbes responsible for the observed dechlorination of chlorobenzenes, the microbial community was surveyed using 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing. Members of the Dehalobacter and Dehalococcoides are reported to respire chlorobenzenes; however, neither were abundant in our sediment microcosms. Instead, we observed a significant increase in the relative abundance of Dehalogenimonas from <1% to 16–30% during dechlorination of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB), 1,2-dichlorobenzene (DCB), and 1,3-DCB over 19 months. Quantitative PCR (qPCR) confirmed that Dehalogenimonas gene copies increased by 2 orders of magnitude with an average yield of 3.6 ± 2.3 g cells per mol Cl– released (N = 12). In transfer cultures derived f...
The effects of acute toxicity of phenanthrene,pyrene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene in single or combined form on earthworms in meadow brown soils were determined.The results indicated that concentration of the three chemicals was significantly related to lethal rate of the earthworms (α=0.05,r PHE=0.87,r PY= 0.85,r TCB=0.95).However,the relationship of pollutant concentration with sub-lethal rate was not as significant as with acute lethal rate (α=0.05,r PHE=0.75,r PY=0.72,r TCB= 0.85).Tolerance of some individual earthworms to the toxicity of some individual pollutants varied greatly.The threshold value causing death of individual earthworm was 20 mg·kg -1 for phenanthrene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene,and 2 000 mg·kg -1 for pyrene.The threshold value resulting in weight loss of individual earthworms was 20 mg·kg -1 for phenanthrene,300 mg·kg -1 for 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, and 1 000 mg·kg -1 for pyrene.LC 100 was 100 mg·kg -1 for phenanthrene and 350 mg·kg -1 for 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene,and non-calculatable for pyrene due to its low water solubility and low toxicity.The experiment also revealed that combined pollution resulted in both synergism and antagonism.
Hydrodechlorination (HDC) of halons (halogenated hydrocarbons) such as ortho-dichlorobenzene (ODCB) and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TClBz) were carried out under vapor phase conditions at atmospheric pressure in a fixed-bed down flow tubular glass reactor using Pd supported catalysts. HDC of ODCB with H2 gave benzene (Bz) as the major product with chlorobenzene (ClBz) as intermediate. The effect of parameters, such as, time-on-stream, flow rates of ODCB and H2, temperature, Pd loading and effect of supports (γ-Al2O3, SiO2, carbon and MgO) were studied. HDC of TClBz using Pd/carbon gave high selectivity for ODCB. The reaction pathways of HDC of ODCB on Pd/γ-Al2O3 was established and supported by empirical kinetic modeling.
1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) has pervaded in natural environment and industrial production. It would cause a series of problems due to its longevity and amassment. The EPA has added it into the environmental pollutant list. In order to evaluate the tolerance of the fifty rice genotypes to 1,2,4-TCB stress and identify proper screening indices and concentration, the effects of 1,2,4-TCB on the rice seed germination and seedling were studied. At first, the concentrations of 1,2,4-TCB treated 20 genotypes were 0 mmol/Kg sand, 0.35 mmol/Kg sand and 3 mmol/Kg sand, and 1,2,4-TCB dissolved in 0.3 ml acetone were added into sands. The result of this experiment showed that 0.35 mmol/Kg sand was the better screening concentration. So 0 mmol/Kg sand and 0.35 mmol/Kg sand were adopted to treat 50 genotypes in the latter study. Germination potential, germination rate, the longest root length, root number, plant height, the dry weight of shoot and roots of different rice varieties at seedling stage were measured. Character relative values were got from measure values of treated groups and control groups. They were used as tolerance indices (TI) of early seedlings. Cluster analysis of different wheat varieties based on TI was adopted. The results showed that the fifty rice varieties could be grouped into four types, .i.e. TCB sensitive varieties, relatively sensitive varieties, tolerant varieties and relatively tolerant varieties.
Abstract Nitration of inexpensive 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene gave 2,4,5-trichloronitrobenzene (90%) which was treated with KF to form 2,4-difluoro-5-chloronitrobenzene (70%). This was selectively hydrogenated over Pd/C to give 2,4-difluoroaniline (80%). Deamination afforded 1,3-difluorobenzene. The sequence avoids the need for costly 1,3-dichlorobenzene.
Many environmental chemicals and pesticides have been found to alter neuroendocrine communication in exposed biological objects. The environmental loads have primary and secondary effects that can alter the homeostatic regulation potential. Since it is difficult to avoid human exposition, a potentially important area of research to develop in vivo and in vitro experimental models. In this context, the primary aim of this study was to demonstrate the effects of chlorobenzenes on adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) release. In our experimental study, male Wistar rats were exposed to 0.1, 1.0 and 10 μg/b.w. (body weight) kg of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and hexachlorobenzene (ClB) mix via gastric tube for 30, 60 or 90 days. At the endpoints of the experiment blood samples were taken and animals were decapitated. Primary, monolayer adenohypophysis cell cultures were prepared by enzymatic and mechanical digestion. The ACTH hormone content in serum and supernatant media was measured by immuno-chemiluminescence assay. The Mg 2+ -dependent ATPase activity was determined by modified method of Martin and Dotty. Significant differences were detected in the hormone release between the control and treated groups. The hormone release was enhanced characteristically in exposed groups depending upon the dose and duration of exposure. The Mg 2+ -ATPase activity enhanced after chronic and subtoxic ClB exposition. Light microscopy revealed that the adenohypophysis seemed to be more abundant. Results indicate that Wistar rats exposed to subtoxic ClB have direct and indirect effects on hypothalamus-hypophysis-adrenal axis.
High-performance transistors require homogeneous crystalline thin films with high charge carrier mobilities on large substrates. We report a versatile solution process that uses a good solvent additive with a high boiling point. This method enables the fabrication of uniform, large-area, polymer thin films with improved thin film crystallinity and electrical characteristics and high reliability organic transistors. We demonstrate here that the addition of a small amount of a good solvent additive with a high boiling point to the processing solution is highly effective in not only inducing the strong self-assembly of the conjugated polymer during film solidification by increasing the solvent evaporation time but also in ensuring the formation of a uniform film morphology. These characteristics were found to enhance the device performance of a poly(3-hexylthiophene) film processed from a mixed solvent containing chlorobenzene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, which was found to exhibit a highest average field-eff...
Abstract We investigated the effects of the solvent boiling point on organic field-effect transistor (OFET) device performances in devices prepared using two newly synthesized anthradithiophene derivatives: 9,10-di(4′-pentylphenylethynyl)-anthra[2,3-b:6,7-b′]dithiophene (DPPEADT) and 9,10-bi([9′,9′-dimethyl-fluoren-2-ylethynyl])-anthra[2,3-b:6,7-b′]dithiophene (DFEADT). DPPEADT exhibited a distinct crystalline morphology whereas DFEADT was amorphous. We characterized the relationship between the molecular structures, film morphologies, and OFET device performances in devices prepared using solvents having one of three different boiling points (chlorobenzene, 1,2-dichlorobenzene, and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene). 1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene, which provided the highest boiling point among the solvents tested and acted as a good solvent for DPPEADT, significantly improved the field-effect mobilities of DPPEADT devices up to 0.16 cm 2 /V by enhancing the crystallinity of the film. OFETs based on amorphous DFEADT films prepared using the three solvents did not provide enhanced electrical performances. The differences between the transistor performances were attributed to the degree of π-overlap, the molecular structures, and the morphological properties of the films.
The influence of the solvent and annealing temperature on the field-effect mobilities and morphologies of poly(3-hexylthiophene)-b-poly(γ-benzyl-L-glutamate) (P3HT-b-PBLG) rod-rod diblock copolymer has been investigated. Thin film X-ray diffraction studies show peaks originating from both P3HT and PBLG indicating that the crystalline nature of both the blocks is conserved after the formation of the block copolymer. It has been observed that the field-effect mobilities of the diblock copolymer are independent of the annealing temperatures for thin films deposited from both 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and chloroform solvents. The correlation between the field-effect mobility and morphology indicates that the P3HT block self-assembles at the surface SiO(2) dielectric.
Article on excess volumes of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene + methyl ethyl ketone + 1-alkanols at 303.15 K.
Soot particles vary in pore structure, surface properties, and content of authigenic (native) extractable organic chemicals. To better understand the effects of these properties on sorption, aqueous sorption isotherms for 14C-labeled phenanthrene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene were obtained for four soots of varying properties: two diesel reference soots, a hexane soot, and an ozonated hexane soot. Substantial isotherm nonlinearity was observed. In comparison to diesel soot SRM 2975, diesel soot SRM 1650b had a much higher content of extractable authigenic organic chemicals, showed less sorption of 14C-labeled sorbate at low relative concentrations (Ce/Sw), and showed higher sorption at high Ce/Sw. In comparison to normal hexane soot, the ozonated hexane soot had a higher surface O/C ratio and showed substantially less sorption at all concentrations studied. The sorption differences were attributed to the noted differences in properties, and results were interpreted through a dual-mode sorption model that included the possibility of both surface adsorption (modeled using a Polanyi-based approach) and simple phase partitioning (linear absorption). Generally, such modeling indicated that overall uptake at low concentrations in all four soots was dominated by surface adsorption but that sorption at higher sorbate concentrations in SRM 1650b was heavily influenced by linear absorption within the natively bound organic phase.
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene (TCB) has pervaded in industrial and agricultural production. Because of a series of problems caused by its stableness and fatalness, TCB has been added into the environmental pollutant list. In order to know how TCB affects the rice seed germination, seedling growth and its physiological characteristics, the seed germination, seedling biomass, soluble protein, and malnodialdehyde (MDA) contents, as well as activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), peroxidase (POD), and catalase (CAT) in leaves and roots of seedlings treated with TCB were investigated in a sand culture experiment using rice cultivars, Xiangjing 20-18 (TCB tolerant genotype)and Siyang 1382 (TCB sensitive genotype). The results indicated that TCB had little effect on the seed germination rate and index, however caused the significant reduction of seedling biomass, with Xiangjing 20-18 being more affected than Siyang 1382. With TCB stress degree strengthening, soluble protein content of Xiangjing 20-18 leaves and roots presented an increasing tendency, while that of Siyang 1382 leaves decreased significantly, and that of its roots decreased too under treatment of high TCB concentration. O 2. producing velocity of leaves in two genotypes decreased firstly, then increased with increasing TCB concentration. That of Xiangjing 20-18 roots presented the same tendency, and significantly higher than the control at TCB≥0.6 mmol kg-1, while that of Siyang 1382 roots had no significant difference with that of the control. SOD activity of Xiangjing 20-18 leaves increased, and that of roots increased significantly. After TCB≥0.2 mmol kg-1,SOD activity of Xiangjing 20-18 leaves was significantly higher than that of the control, that of Siyang 1382 leaves and roots was not significantly different with that of the control. POD activity of Xiangjing 20-18 leaves increased firstly, then decreased, and that of roots was significantly higher than the control, while that of Siyang 1382 leaves and roots decreased significantly. CAT activity of Xiangjing 20-18 leaves was higher or significantly higher than that of the control, and that of Siyang 1382 was contrary to the result of Xiangjing 20-18. MDA content of leaves decreased firstly, then increased, being significantly higher than that of the control at high TCB concentration, and that of roots increased significantly in two genotype. In conclusion, lower reduction of seedling biomass, high protein content of leaves and roots, the better active oxygen's elimination ability and lower MDA content in plants would be considered as the physiological traits in TCB-tolerant genotypes of rice.
Excess volumes for 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene + methyl ethyl ketone + 1-propanol, + 1-butanol, + 1-pentanol, and + 1-hexanol were measured at 303.15 K. Excess volumes are negative over the entire range of composition in the four mixtures. The results were compared with those predicted by empirical equations proposed by Hwang et al. and Redlich-Kister. 
Hwang et al. (1) have recently developed a semiempirical equation that includes contributions from both two-body and three-body interactions. The relation has been used to predict ternary Gibbs free energies of several aqueous-organic systems. Acree and Naidu (3) extended the relation to excess volumes of six ternary mixtures and noted that the equation gives a satisfactory estimate of the excess property. Recently Raja Sekar, Naidu, and Acree (4) and also Siva Kumar, Naidu, and Acree (5) analyzed excess volumes of seven ternary mixtures on the basis of the equation and concluded that it gives a rough estimate of the excess volume. We report here new experimental excess volumes for the binary mixture 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene + methyl ethyl ketone, and for four ternary mixtures containing 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, methyl ethyl ketone, and four 1-alkanols (1-propanol, 1-butanol, l-pentanol, and 1-hexanol). The results were used to check the capability of the predictive expressions developed by Hwang et al. (1) and Redlich-Kister (2).
The area of olefin polymerization catalysis has endured a remarkable increase in research outcome over the past 20 years, with many academic and industrial research centers involving in the design of a new organometallic precatalysts for the controlled synthesis of polyolefin products. In the early 1970s researches on the Group 4 metallocenes gave more detailed understanding of the chemistry around of the activated sites [6] . In the early 1990s new classes of ''post-metallocene'' catalysts were developed which overcame the inherent problems in Group 4 cyclopentadienyl systems, by using late transition metal systems enabling the incorporation of polar comonomers into polyolefin materials, and gave a new morphology surface at low levels of comonomer incorporation and changed the bulk properties of the polyolefin at higher levels of incorporation [2, 5] . In the late 1990s, a new type of catalysts was developed, based on late transition complexes such as nickels' which are very active towards ethylene polymerizations coupled with, the last decade, breakthrough by utilizing such a system to do what is so called living polymerization of olefinic monomers. In this process, the absence of chain-transfer or chain-termination gives rise to a polyolefinic material with very narrow molecular weight distributions (typically \1.1), block copolymers, and polymers with novel topologies [3, 4, 7] . All manipulations of air and/or water-sensitive compounds were carried out under dry nitrogen atmosphere using a dry box or Schlenk line techniques. The molecular weight (MW) and polydispersity index (PDI) of PE were determined by GPC (PL-GPC220/FTIR) in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene/THF using polystyrene columns as standard.
A new separation principle was recently introduced into the analytical characterization of polyolefins by researchers from the German Institute for Polymers in Darmstadt. It was demonstrated that polyolefins can be selectively separated via high-performance liquid chromatography on the basis of their adsorption/desorption behaviours at temperatures as high as 160 °C. A Hypercarb® column packed with porous graphite gave the best results. The mobile phase consisted of a mixture of 1-decanol and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. In this work, the same chromatographic system is applied to the separation of ethylene/alkene and ethylene/norbornene copolymers. It was found that the elution volumes of the samples correlate linearly with the average chemical composition of samples. The elution volume is indirectly proportional to the concentration of branches in the ethylene/alkene copolymer. Branching shortens the length of continuous methylene sequences of the polymer backbone, thus decreasing the probability of orientation of a methylene sequence in a flat conformation on the graphite surface, which enables the most intensive van der Waals interactions between the methylene backbone and the carbon surface. An opposite trend in the elution order has been found for ethylene/norbornene copolymers. The elution volume of the ethylene/norbornene copolymers increased with the concentration of norbornene. It indicates pronounced attractive interactions between graphite and the cyclic comonomer.
The biological in situ remediation of a former pesticide production site, highly contaminated with chlorobenzenes, chlorophenols and hexachlorocyclohexanes, was studied for a period of one year. Field experiments testing the remediation technology were carried out in the subsurface to a depth of 5.5 m. Detailed monitoring of several chemical and microbiological parameters was made in order to evaluate the remediation success. The initial pollution of this site ranged from 0.03–0.30 g EOX (extractable halogenated organic compounds)/kg soil in the saturated layer to 1–20 g kg−1 EOX in the unsaturated layer, whereas the impounded water was polluted with 8–13 mg L−1 AOX (adsorbable halogenated organic compounds). No significant decrease of the pollutants in the subsoil was observed, although oxygen and nutrients were supplied in sufficient concentrations. In contrast, several of the chlorinated organic compounds were eliminated from the water treatment plant, either by physical or biological processes. Based on measurements of AOX in different parts of the plant, 26% of the pollutants was found adsorbed on the activated carbon and 3% was found in the sludge of the filter back-wash. Dependent on these measurements, elimination of ∼ 70% of the pollutants was attributed to microbial degradation. The latter fact is supported by oxygen consumption data, by increase in the microbial counts and by changes in the distribution of the pollutants in the plant effluent. Among the chlorobenzenes, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, and among the hexachlorocyclohexanes, a-hexachlorocyclohexane were eliminated preferentially. The results suggest that an in situ remediation of a site polluted with chlorinated organic compounds cannot be recommended; however, an on site circulation water treatment is possible by a combination of physical and biological processes.
Despite a significant body of literature on the photocatalytic decomposition of 4-chlorophenol by TiO2 at liquid/solid and gas/solid interfaces, a fundamental understanding of the interaction of 4-chlorophenol with TiO2 is lacking. We present the first study of this interaction under well-defined UHV conditions by means of NEXAFS, time-dependent XPS, and UPS. XPS data show that the molecule adsorbs with the carbon framework intact and no scission of the C-Cl bond. The NEXAFS results indicate a coverage-dependent tilted geometry for the adsorbed molecule that is attached to the surface via a phenolate link. In contrast, because of the absence of an OH functionality, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene lies flat. The adsorption of 4-chlorophenol is accompanied by a decrease in the TiO2 work function pointing to adsorbate --> substrate charge transfer. Interestingly, the UPS data suggest that 4-chlorophenol adsorption leads to the photosensitization of TiO2, thus providing a basis for understanding recent results on the visible light photocatalytic activity of TiO2 for 4-chlorophenol decomposition. It is also found that the molecule is stable against thermal decomposition at temperatures of up to approximately 473 K, which is well above the temperature range used for photocatalytic decomposition studies.
An existing substitution reaction method was improved as part of a system to measure the persistency of selected chemicals in the environment by evaluating their chemical reactivity. Hexachlorobenzene (HCB), pentachlorobenzene, 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene were selected as model compounds. Sodium methoxide in methanol was used as a nucleophile and found to be stable for at least 35 days after preparation. The substitution reaction system was modified so that nitrogen protection was not necessary to avoid oxidation and hydrolysis effects, which led to improved results. The reactivity of polychlorinated benzenes (PCBz), which substituted chlorine for methoxide according to a second-order rate constant, increased as the number of chlorine atoms on the benzene ring increased. HCB was selected as a standard for the k(2) calculations of the substitution reactions. A normalized k(2) (k(N)) was calculated as k(N)=k(PCBz)/k(HCB). GC-MS analysis confirmed that the reactions were pure nucleophilic aromatic substitutions without side reactions.
Abstract The influence of reaction vessel diameter on the sonochemical yield was investigated by using reaction vessels with five different diameters. It was revealed that the formation of H2O2 and chloride ion, from the sonolysis of pure water and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene aqueous solution, was affected by the reaction vessel diameter. That is, these yields increased as the reaction vessel diameter increased up to o 90 mm and then decreased over o 90 mm. From the analyses of the measurement of sonochemiluminescence and the calorimetry, it was suggested that active cavitation bubbles were formed at certain zones. In the case of a larger diameter reaction vessel, it was suggested that bubble nuclei that have not grown up to the resonance size, escaped from the sonication zone to the non-sonication zone and dissolved away. As a result, the number of active cavitation bubbles and the yields of H2O2 and chloride ion would decrease in the case of a larger diameter reaction vessel.
k1. The alpha-isomer of 1,2,3,4,5,6-hexachlorocyclohexane (HCH) is converted in rats to 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, 2,3,4-trichlorophenol, 2,4,6-trichlorophenol, other trichlorophenols, and 2,3,4,6-tetrachlorophenol, which were excreted in urine. 2. Alpha-HCH is also converted to 3,4,6/5-pentachlorocyclohexene which is detectable in kidneys, but not in urine. 3. The results of this study are discussed with references to earlier work and to gamma-HCH metabolism.
Abstract Background Love Canal, in Niagara Falls, NY is among the earliest and most significant hazardous waste sites in the USA, but no study has ever measured chemical body burdens in nearby residents to document that human exposure occurred. This study measured concentrations of selected organochlorines and chlorinated benzenes in archived serum samples collected from former Love Canal residents. Methods We analyzed serum samples collected from 373 former residents in 1978–1979 for compounds disposed of at Love Canal, and we compared their concentrations according to surrogate indicators of exposure such as residential proximity, adjusting for potential confounders. Results Three compounds were detectable in the serum of most participants: 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB), β-hexachlorocyclohexane (β-HCH) and 1,2-dichlorobenzene (1,2-DCB). Concentrations of 1,2,4-TCB and 1,2-DCB were 2–14 times greater among persons who at the time their blood was collected lived closest to the Canal compared to those living further away. We found no consistent trends for β-HCH with respect to any exposure definition. Conclusions These results provide evidence that residential proximity to Love Canal contributed to the body burden of certain contaminants, and helps validate the use of surrogate exposure measures in health effect studies. Further surveillance of the Love Canal cohort is warranted.
Phragmites australis shows potential for the phytoremediation of chlorinated chemicals. Also there has been some attempt to determine the phytotoxic effects of organochlorines (OC). This study reports for lindane (HCH), monochlorobenzene (MCB), 1,4-dichlorobenzene (DCB) and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB), a no-observed-effect-concentration (NOEC(7d)) that was 1000-300,000 times higher than environmental concentrations. Nevertheless, the combined OC mixture (NOEC(7d) level of each congener) induced a synergistic toxic effect, causing a severe drop (70%) in chlorophyll concentration. The mixture 0.2 mg L(-1) MCB+0.2 mg L(-1) DCB+2.5 mg L(-1) TCB+0.175 mg L(-1) HCH, that was 15 times more concentrated than environmental OC mixture, did not cause phytotoxicity during 21 days. Antioxidant enzymes were affected immediately after the start of exposure (3 days), but the plants showed no signs of stress thereafter. These data suggest that environmental OC mixtures do not pose a significant risk to P. australis.
The sorption of 12 neutral organic compounds (NOCs) contained in mixtures to both hydrophilic mineral surfaces (uncoated, iron (hydr)oxide-coated, and aluminum (hydr)oxide-coated sands) and humic acid-mineral complexes with different fractions of organic carbon, f oc (¼ 0:051, 0.119, and 0.221%) was evaluated using batch equilibrium sorption tests. The 12 compounds included six nonpolar NOCs (1,2,4-trichlorobenzene; 1,4-dichlorobenzene; chlorobenzene; m-xylene; toluene; and benzene) and six polar NOCs (2,4-dimethyl phenol; p-cresol; phenol; 2-hexanone; 2-butanone; and acetone). For sorption of the nonpolar NOCs, mixture effects (e.g., competitive or cooperative effects) were not statistically significant (95% confidence level) regardless of changes in mixture composition or type of sorbent. In contrast, mixture effects for some of the polar NOCs (2,4-dimethyl phenol; p-cresol; phenol; and 2-hexanone) were statistically significant and depended on both the mixture compositions (concentration and polarity of the NOC) and the type of sorbent (availability of hydro- philic interaction sites). These results suggest that direct experimental measurement of sorption coefficients for polar NOCs contained in mixtures may be required to reduce errors in predicting the fate and transport of the polar NOCs and the risk posed to potential receptors. DOI: 10.1061/(ASCE)HZ.1944-8376.0000070. © 2011 American Society of Civil Engineers. CE Database subject headings: Acids; Minerals; Mixtures; Organic compounds; Sorption. Author keywords: Humic acid-mineral complexes; Mineral surfaces; Mixture effects; Neutral organic compound; Sorption.
Abstract The molecular response of wheat ( Triticum aestivum L., cv. Yangmai 13) seedlings to heavy metal (Cd, Hg) and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) stresses were examined by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, image analysis, and peptide mass fingerprinting. The results showed inhibitions of root and shoot growth by Cd, Hg, and TCB. These stresses led to water deficit and lipid phosphorylation in the seedling which also promoted protein phophorylation in the leaves. Hg stress inhibited protein synthesis while Cd and TCB stresses induced or up-regulated more proteins in the leaves. Most of these induced proteins played important roles in the biochemical reactions involved in tolerance of wheat to Cd and TCB stresses. The primary functions of Cd- and TCB-induced proteins included methionine metabolism, Rubisco modification, protein phosphorylation regulation, protein configuration protection, H + transmembrane transportation and also the synthesis of ethylene, defense substances and cell wall compounds.
The microbial degradation of monochloro-, 1,2-dichloro-, 1,4-dichloro-, and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene in soil slurries was examined with single compounds as well as in mixtures. The indigenous soil populations brought about the degradation of monochlorobenzene when incubated at 27 degrees C in slurries with 29% (w/w) suspended solids. In contrast, the other chlorobenzenes persisted during an incubation period of 1 month. Supplementation with buffer, mineral salts and acetate did not significantly influence the degradation. However, inoculation with Pseudomonas aeruginosa strain RHO1, a monochloro- and 1,4-dichlorobenzene-degrading organism, to a titre of 1 x 10(5) cells/g soil, led to rapid and complete degradation of 0.8 mM growth substrate within 30 h. In addition, the strain was able to degrade 1,2-dichloro- and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene with stoichiometric release of chloride in the presence of acetate, ethanol, monochloro- or 1,4-dichlorobenzene as growth substrates. In mixtures of chlorobenzenes the co-metabolism of 1,2-dichloro- and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene occurred until the growth substrates monochloro- and 1,4-dichlorobenzene were degraded. The degradation was faster in the slurries of garden soil containing 8% organic carbon than in soil with the lower content of 2.6%.
The heat capacities at constant pressure and densities of chlorobenzene (ClBz), bromobenzene (BrBz), 1,2-dichlorobenzene (1,2-DClBz), 1,3-dichlorobenzene (1,3-DClBz), 1,2-dibromobenzene (1,2-DBrBz), 1,3-dibromobenzene (1,3-DBrBz), 2-bromochlorobenzene (1,2-BrClBz), and 3-bromochlorobenzene (1,3-BrClBz) were measured within the temperature range from (283.15 to 353.15) K. The heat capacities of four other compounds [1,4-dichlorobenzene (1,4-DClBz), 1,2,3-trichlorobenzene (1,2,3-TClBz), 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TClBz), and 1,2,3,4-tetrachlorobenzene (1,2,3,4-TClBz)] were also measured between their melting point and 353.15 K. All measurements were performed by means of DSCIII (Setaram) differential scanning calorimeter. Assuming that the molar heat capacity shows an additive character, a simple equation was proposed that allows one to predict Cp values of liquid chloro and bromo derivatives of benzene as a function of temperature with an accuracy below 1 %. Densities of some of the investigated compoun...
cis-beta-[Ru-II(salen(A))(CO)(2)] (salen(A) = N,N'-bis(3-R-1-5-R-2-salicylidene)-1,2-cyclohexenediamine dianion; R-1 = R-2 = Bu-1, 1a; R-1 = Pr-i, R-2 = H, 1b; R-1 = Bu-1, R-2 = H, 1c) complexes were prepared by treating Ru-3(CO)(12) with the respective H(2)salen(A) in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and structurally characterized by X-ray crystallography. Complexes 1a-c catalyze intramolecular cyclopropanation of trans-allylic diazoacetates N2CHCO2CH2CH=CHR (3, R = Ph, 4-CIC6H4, 4-BrC6H4, 4-MeC6H4, 4-MeOC6H4, 2-MeC6H4, 2-furanyl) under light irradiation to give cyclopropyl lactones 4 in up to 96% yield and up to 98% ee. DFT calculations on intramolecular cyclopropanation of 3a (R = Ph) with model catalyst cis-beta-[Ru-II(salen(A0)) (CO)(2)] (salen(A0) = N,N'-bis(salicylidene)-1,2-cyclohexenediamine dianion) reveal the intermediacy of both cis-beta- and trans[Ru(salen (A0))(CHCO2CH2CH=CHPh)(CO)] bearing salen(A0) in a nonplanar and planar coordination mode, respectively, with the cis-beta-carbene species being a major intermediate in the catalytic carbenoid transfer reaction. The intramolecular cyclopropanation from the cis-beta-carbene species is the most favorable pathway and features an early transition state and an asynchronous concerted [2 + 1) addition mechanism. Enantioselectivities in the reactions involving [Ru(salen(A0))(CHCO2CH2CH=CHPh)(CO)] were predicted to be 77% ee for the trans-carbene species and 96% ee for the cis-beta-carbene species; the former dramatically increases to 98% ee, whereas the latter slightly increases to 99% ee, upon replacing salen(A0) with salen(A1) (RI = R 2 = B). The observed variation in enantioselectivity (90-98% ee) for the conversion of 3a to 4a catalyzed by 1a-c could result from an equilibrium between cis-beta (major) and trans (minor) ruthenium-carbene intermediates.
A detailed study of the synthesis of (η-arene)(η-cyclopentadienyl)iron(II) hexafluorophosphates has been made using microwave dielectric heating. Reactions were carried out in a conventional 850 W microwave oven in a very simple solid CO2-cooled apparatus. A wide range of arene ligands were used. The microwave technique reduced the normal reaction times for the AlCl3-mediated ligand exchange with ferrocene (with aluminium powder to prevent ferricinium ion formation) from several hours to a few minutes and generally resulted in higher yields. 1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene was found to be an excellent solvent for such reactions. A preliminary survey of the efficacy of the type of the metal powder used revealed that zinc and copper were as effective as aluminium, but that nickel and tin gave little or no reaction. Better yields were usually obtained when an excess of ferrocene was used. This was particularly true of alkylarene ligands where almost quantitative yields were obtained in some cases. The microwave method is particularly suited to the synthesis of bis and more highly complexed species. Arylamine complexes can also be made in high yields. Complexes of triphenylphosphine are reported together with a wide range of other arenes.Decomplexation of these complexes can be efficiently achieved by a slight variant of the above microwave procedure. High yields of free ligand were obtained by irradiating an admixture of the complexes with flaked graphite.
Abstract: The sorption of 12 neutral organic compounds (NOCs) contained in mixtures to both hydrophilic mineral surfaces [uncoated, iron (hydr)oxide-coated, and aluminum (hydr)oxide-coated sands] and humic acid-mineral complexes with different fractions of organic carbon, f oc (¼ 0:051, 0.119, and 0.221%) was evaluated using batch equilibrium sorption tests. The 12 compounds included six nonpolar NOCs (1,2,4-trichlorobenzene; 1,4-dichlorobenzene; chlorobenzene; m-xylene; toluene; and benzene) and six polar NOCs (2,4-dimethyl phenol; p-cresol; phenol; 2-hexanone; 2-butanone; and acetone). For sorption of the nonpolar NOCs, mixture effects (e.g., competitive or cooperative effects) were not statistically significant (95% confidence level) regardless of changes in mixture composition or type of sorbent. In contrast, mixture effects for some of the polar NOCs (2,4-dimethyl phenol; p-cresol; phenol; and 2-hexanone) were statistically significant and depended on both the mixture compositions (concentration and polarity of the NOC) and the type of sorbent (availability of hydrophilic interaction sites). These results suggest that direct experimental measurement of sorption coefficients for polar NOCs contained in mixtures may be required to reduce errors in predicting the fate and transport of the polar NOCs and the risk posed to potential receptors.
Chlorinated insecticide technical-hexachlorocyclohexane (t-HCH) consists of four major isomers; a-(60-70%), b-(5-12%), c-(10-15%) and d-HCH (6-10%), which differ in spatial distribution of chlorine atoms on cyclohexane ring (Willett et al. 1998) . Sites contaminated by these isomers are present all around the world and are potential sources of toxicity (Willett et al. 1998; Lal et al. 2010) . Several HCH-degrading microorganisms have been characterized from different parts of world (Lal et al. 2010) . Pathway for the degradation c-HCH has been worked out in considerable detail, and some information is also available about the degradation of other isomers. Briefly, enzyme 'HCH-dehydrochlorinase LinA' mediates first step in the biodegradative pathway of a-, cand d-HCH i.e., their dehydrochlorination to 1,3,4,6-tetrachloro-1,4-cyclohexadiene via the corresponding pentachlorocyclohexene (Fig. 1) . The formed product is further metabolized by sequential activity of other Lin enzymes of the pathway into readily utilizable products (Imai et al. 1991; Nagata et al. 2007; Lal et al. 2010) . When LinA activity is tested in isolation, the formed 1,3,4,6-tetrachloro-1,4-cyclohexadiene is converted non enzymatically to 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (Imai et al. 1991) .
Hydrodehalogenation of TeCB gives at first 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) and then, in order: the three dichlorobenzene isomers (DCB), chlorobenzene and benzene (Scheme 1). If this reaction is carried out in the presence of a large amount of catalyst, as in previously reported the rate increases considerably and the reduction to benzene was effective even in absence of the hydrogen source.? This high activity is probably due to hydrogen already present on the carbon support. In effect, the catalyst is used as a reagent.
The molecular weights were estimated using a Waters Alliance GPC 2000 instrument equipped with three Styragel HT-type columns (HT3, HT5, and HT6E). 1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene was used as solvent, at a flow rate of 1 mL min -1 and temperature of 135 ºC. The columns were calibrated with polystyrene standards.
Monochlorobenzene (MCB), dichlorobenzenes (DCBs), and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (124TCB) dechlorination experiments in water were carried out with freshly synthesized Pd/Fe particles. The pre- and postreacted Pd/Fe samples were characterized by applying various analytical techniques (XRD, SEM, TEM, and XPS). Chlorinated benzenes could be completely reduced by the Pd/Fe to benzene and the reaction followed the pseudo-first-order kinetics. The reaction rates followed the order TCB < DCBs < MCB, while among the DCBs the order was 1,4-dichlorobenzene >1,3-dichlorobenzene > or = 1,2-dichlorobenzene. Insignificant reactions were observed with the unpalladized iron, suggesting that Pd was the only reactive site in the Pd/Fe particles. The aged Pd/Fe particles exhibited significant decrease in its dechlorination reactivity. The loss of Pd/Fe reactivity could be due to Pd dislodgment from the aged Pd/Fe particles and Pd islets encapsulation by the iron oxides film developed over aging period. Reactivity of the aged Pd/Fe could be only partially restored after HCI treatment, while regeneration with the NaBH4 reduction method could not restore its activity, although zerovalent state of the iron was reinstated.
Outdoor experiments with [14C]hexachlorobenzene, [14C]pentachlorobenzene, [14C]1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, and [14C]benzene in soil-crop systems indicate that the formation rate of bound residues in soil and plants, expressed as bound residues in percentage of total residue in the sample, decreases with increasing number of chlorine in the molecule and, thus, with increasing chemical stability. The time course of formation and fate of bound residues in soil and plants is characterized by a very slow decrease of residue levels in soil, indicating that biodegradation of bound residues hardly exceeds their reformation from the parent compound during one vegetation period, and by a decrease of residue levels in plants. The portion of bound residues as compared to the total residue increases with time, indicating that bound residues are more persistent than the parent compounds and their soluble metabolites; benzene is an exception. Cress plants, in general, contain less bound residues than do barley plants. Again, benzene is an exception. In deeper soil layers, soil-bound residues occur also. The ratio between bound and extractable residues does not differ to a larger extent between the soil layers.
The compression and thermal expansion of crystalline 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, C6H3Cl3, 124TCB, investigated under isobaric and isothermal conditions, are in reverse relation, as for most of crystals, however, the isochoric strain along direction c is clearly different from those along a and b. Single crystals of 124TCB have been in situ grown under isochoric and isobaric conditions, at 270 K/0.1 MPa and 295 K/0.16 GPa, and also at 100 K/0.1 MPa and 295 K/0.64 GPa, when the unit-cell volume is similar. All crystallizations yielded the same phase, of monoclinic space group P21/n, with two symmetry-independent molecules (Z′ = 2). The structure is governed by Cl⋯Cl and Cl⋯H interactions and the molecules are all nearly parallel to the [001] direction. Systematic differences of these specific contacts afford rationalizing the isochoric strain of the crystal. The phase diagram of 124TCB has been outlined.
Abstract Dechlorination of hexachlorobenzene (HCB) was achieved by a liquid potassium–sodium (K–Na)-alloy. HCB in a cyclohexane/benzene solution (22 mmol/l, 4.67 g/l as chlorine) was dechlorinated by almost 100% after a 30-min reaction, indicating high reactivity of K–Na alloy and high proton donating power of cyclohexane. Decreasing orders of chlorobenzenes identified after a 15-min reaction, by amount were 1,2,3,4- > 1,2,3,5- > 1,2,4,5- for tetrachlorobenzenes, 1,2,4- > 1,2,3- > 1,3,5- for trichlorobenzenes, and 1,4- > 1,3- > 1,2- for dichlorobenzenes. It was hypothesized that once one chlorine atom in HCB was replaced with a proton, the adjacent chlorine atom to the proton tended to be replaced with another hydrogen atom. A total of 63 PCBs formed via the Wurtz–Fittig reaction were identified as by-products in the sample after a 15-min reaction. Among PCBs found, 2,3 ′ ,4 ′ ,5-tetrachlorobiphenyl, which was a product from 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene formed via the Wurtz–Fittig reaction, was detected in relatively high concentration (48.9 nmol/ml). The sample obtained from a reaction mixture after 30 min contained only 14 PCBs in trace amounts, indicating that the PCBs formed were also further dechlorinated by K–Na alloy. Non-chlorinated compounds––such as methylbenzene, dimethylbenzene, dimer of tetrahydrofuran, and dicyclohexyl (dimer of cyclohexane)––were also identified in the samples. A method using K–Na alloy developed in the present study dechlorinated satisfactorily HCB at room temperature.
Abstract Sorption of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, o-chlorotoluene and dimethylphthalate to a series of subsurface samples collected with depth is reported. Desorption of sorbate from the sorbent matrix provides better precision than conventional solution phase concentration differences when sorption is low. Clay mineral content influences sorption on low carbon sorbents.
Batch technique experiments were conducted to study the sorption and desorption behavior of chlorobenzene,1,4-dichlorobenzene,1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene on 5 sediments with different natural organic matter(NOM)characteristics.The results showed that the sorption-desorption isotherms of 4 CBs from water on several sediments with various NOM properties exhibited distinct nonlinearity and sorption-desorption hysteresis.The sorption nonlinearity and hysteresis index of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene increased with the increase of the degree of sediment NOM condensation.In addition,the CBs properties themselves influenced the sorption-desorption behavior.The smaller the CBs molecule is,the more significant the sorption nonlinearity and sorption-desorption hysteresis are.
Aqueous biphasic systems (ABS) are suitable for the separation of small organic molecules in industrial and environmental applications and thus, it is important to correlate partitioning behavior of model organic solutes with their structure in order to develop predictive models. The partitioning behavior of five, uncharged, substituted benzenes (benzene, toluene. chlorobenzene, 1,4-dichlorobenzene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene) were studied in ABS prepared from stock solutions of 40% (w/w) PEG-2000 and increasing concentrations of four water-structuring salts (K3PO4, K2CO3, (NH4)2SO4 and NaOH). For a given solute and a defined concentration of salt, the partition coefficients increase as the deltaGhyd value of the salt anion becomes more negative (e.g., Dbenzene increases in the order OH- <SO42- <CO32- <PO43-). In a given salt, the distribution ratios increase in the order benzene<toluene<chlorobenzene< 1,4-dichlorobenzene< 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. The partitioning behavior of the solutes in PEG-salt ABS was found to be strongly correlated with their partitioning coefficients in 1-octanol-water biphasic systems.
Iodomethane and the two bromoalkanes were chosen to show the effect of solute size, the other descriptors being almost the same. On the other hand, the solutes from 4-chloroaniline to benzamide have very similar V descriptors but differ markedly in other properties. The pairs of solutes 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene-bromohexane and fluoranthene-bromooctane were included to examine any effect of the RTIL systems on aromatic solutes. A comparison of the three haloalkanes shows very clearly that an increase in the solute volume results in much larger increases in log P for the three conventional systems than for the two RTIL systems and the ABS system. If we take bromohexane as a standard "nonpolar" solute, then a polar hydrogen-bond base such as 4-chloroaniline has very much smaller log P values in the three conventional systems, smaller values in the two RTIL systems, but a nearly unchanged one in the ABS system (-0.26 log units). However, polar hydrogenbond acids are very difficult to extract into cyclohexane or chloroform, moderately extractable into octanol and the two RTILs, but easily extracted into the ABS system. An examination of the final two pairs of solutes shows that the three unconventional systems have a slight extra affinity for 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and a substantial affinity for the polyaromatic hydrocarbon fluoranthene. None of the conventional systems would separate fluoranthene from bromooctane, but there are considerable differences in the log P values in the three unconventional systems.
A monodendron molecule, 5-(benzyloxy)isophthalic acid derivative (BIC, C47H76O7), has been employed to fabricate self-assembly on graphite surface. The molecules were dissolved in different solvents of 1-phenyloctane, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB), and 1-octanoic acid. The effects of these solvents on BIC self-assemblies were investigated by scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) at the liquid/graphite interface. It is found that 1-phenyloctane exerts as a dispersant without coadsorption in the self-assembly, although a structural transformation of BIC adlayer from lamella to hexamer can be seen with concentration decrease. TCB solvent coadsorbs with BIC molecules and affects the structure and stability of the BIC adlayer. In contrast, a stable BIC linear adlayer is formed with the coadsorption of 1-octanoic acid. The intermolecular hydrogen bonds between solvent molecule 1-octanoic acid and the BIC molecule are responsible for the formation of the linear structure. Furthermore, the effect of mixed solvents o...
The acute toxicity of a number of chlorinated benzenes, ranging from monosubstituted to pentasubstituted benzenes, was studied in rats. Toxic effects on the liver, the kidneys, and the thyroid were monitored after a single ip administration of 1, 2, or 4 mmol/kg monochlorobenzene (MCB), 1,2-dichlorobenzene (1,2-DICB), 1,4-dichlorobenzene (1,4-DICB), 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TRCB), and pentachlorobenzene (PECB). Due to its low solubility, 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene (1,2,4,5-TECB) was tested at a highest dose of 0.8 mmol/kg. 1,2-DICB and 1,2,4-TRCB produced the most severe hepatotoxic effects when compared with an equimolar dose of the other chlorinated benzenes, as determined by plasma ALT profile and histopathological changes after 72 hr. MCB was considerably less hepatotoxic. Severe degenerative damage to the kidney was only observed in a few rats treated with 1,2,4-TRCB. However, protein droplets in the tubular epithelial cells were observed at 72 hr after administration of 1,4-DICB, 1,2,4-TRCB, 1,2,4,5-TECB, and PECB. In the latter two groups, these protein droplets were still observed 9 days after administration. All chlorinated benzenes tested excluding MCB induced a reduction in plasma thyroxine levels. The extent of decrease in plasma thyroxine was more severe in rats treated with 1,2,4-TRCB or PECB and correlated well with the relative binding affinities of the phenolic metabolites to the plasma transport protein for thyroxine, i.e., transthyretin. The present study indicates that the establishment of a structureactivity relationship with regard to toxicity depends on the sensitivity of the respective target organs. In the series of (poly)chlorinated benzenes studied, ranging from mono- to pentachlorobenzene, the most severe effects on liver, kidney, and thyroid were observed for 1,2,4-substitution.
For efficient development assessment, and calibration of new chemical analyzers a large number of independently prepared samples of target analytes is necessary. Whereas mixing units for gas analysis are readily available, there is a lack of instrumentation for accurate preparation of liquid samples containing volatile organic compounds (VOCs). Manual preparation of liquid samples containing VOCs at trace concentration levels is a particularly challenging and time consuming task. Furthermore, regularly scheduled calibration of sensors and analyzer systems demands for computer controlled automated sample preparation systems. In this paper we present a novel liquid mixing device enabling extensive measurement series with focus on volatile organic compounds, facilitating analysis of water polluted by traces of volatile hydrocarbons. After discussing the mixing system and control software, first results obtained by coupling with an FT-IR spectrometer are reported. Properties of the mixing system are assessed by mid-infrared attenuated total reflection (ATR) spectroscopy of methanol–acetone mixtures and by investigation of multicomponent samples containing volatile hydrocarbons such as 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and tetrachloroethylene. Obtained ATR spectra are evaluated by principal component regression (PCR) algorithms. It is demonstrated that the presented sample mixing device provides reliable multicomponent mixtures with sufficient accuracy and reproducibility at trace concentration levels.
In this paper, the effects of solvent mixtures on the morphology, charge transport, and light trapping of poly[N-900-hepta-decanyl-2,7-carbazole-alt-5,5-(40,70-di-2-thienyl-20,10,30-benzothiadiazole)](PCDTBT) and [6,6]- phenyl C71-butyric acid methyl ester(PC71BM) based solar cells were investigated. As a good solvent for PCDTBT, o-dichlorobenzene(ODCB) was selected to mix with chloroform(CF), chlorobenzene(CB), and 1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene(TCB) for optimizing the morphology of the PCDTBT:PC71BM active layer. It can be found that the device performance of polymer solar cells(PSCs) has been greatly improved when using a optimal blend ratio. Especially, the PSCs fabricated via ODCB(90%)/CF(10%, volume fraction) mixture exhibit a remarkable enhancement of photon-to-current efficiency(PCE) from 5.16% to 7.47%. The enhanced performance of the PSCs can be attributed to the higher absorption, the lower resistance, and the optimized surface morphology of the active layers modified by the solvent mixtures.
Changes in solutions of ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene Hostalen GUR in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene with time were studied by means of viscometry and light scattering. The decrease of viscosity during ageing indicates that both the degradation of polyethylene chains and destroying of aggregates may occur. The former fact makes questionable the ultra-high molecular weight character of the sample.
The rate of the bromine-exchange reaction between gallium bromide and n-propyl bromide in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and in nitrobenzene was measured at 19, 25 and , using n-propyl bromide labelled with Br-82. The results indicated that the exchange reaction was second order with respect to gallium bromide and first order with respect to n-propyl bromide. The third-order rate constant determined at is in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and . in nitrobenzene. The activation energy, the enthalpy of activation and the entropy of activation for the exchange reaction were also determined. Reaction mechanism for the bromine exchange of n-propyl bromide seemed to be similar to those observed in earlier studies with other alkyl bromides.
Abstract Extraction of insoluble metallofullerenes, La@C2n (n = 36–38), was conducted with dichlorobenzene, chlorobenzene, and iodobenzene as a solvent under reflux condition. When iodobenzene was used, La@C2n (n = 36–38) was successfully extracted as the corresponding phenyl adducts, such as La@C72(C6H5), La@C74(C6H5), and La@C76(C6H5). The number of isomers of corresponding adducts, La@C72(C6H5) and La@C74(C6H5), were reduced to one-third of that in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene extracts, which was reported previously. Based on the spectroscopic analysis, the carbon cages of La@C72(C6H5) and La@C74(C6H5) were deduced to be La@C2(10612)-C72(C6H5) and La@D3h-C74(C6H5), respectively. The addition site carbon possessing very high radical character suggests that the corresponding adducts were produced by the addition of phenyl radical generated from iodobenzene on metallofullerenes.
Biochar has shown great potential for immobilizing organic contaminants in soil. In this study, pentachlorobenzene (PeCB), 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene (1,2,4,5-TeCB), and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) artificially spiked soil was amended with wheat straw biochar at 0.1%, 0.5%, 1%, and 2% application rates, respectively. The sorption, dissipation, and bioavailability of chlorobenzenes (CBs) in soil were investigated. The sorption of PeCB by biochar was significantly higher than that of its sorption by both biochar-amended and unamended soil (p < 0.05). The dissipation and volatilization of CBs from biochar-amended soil significantly decreased relative to unamended soil (p < 0.05). Bioavailability of CBs, expressed as butanol extraction efficiency and earthworm (Eisenia fetida) bioaccumulation factor, significantly decreased with increasing aging time and biochar application rate. The effect of biochar content in soil on the bioavailability of CBs was more pronounced for 1,2,4-TCB relative to other CBs. This study suggested that wheat straw biochar, even at low application rates, could effectively immobilize the semivolatile CBs in soil and thus reduce their volatilization and bioavailability.
A synthesis method of 2,5-dichlorophenol was described,it was 2,5-dichlorophenol synthesized from a relatively low toxicity intermediate 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene in a solvent by alkaline hydrolyzation.In the presence of PTC,1,2,4-trichlorobenzene was hydrolyzed with NaOH in methanol at 195 ℃ for 6 hours.The content of recrystallized crude product 2,5-dichlorophenol was up to 97% with the yield 83%.The synthesis process was simple with convenient post-processing and a high purity of product.
β-Nitro-5,10,15,20-tetraphenylporphyrin and its zinc complex, or 2,7-dinitro-5,10,15,20-tetraphenylporphyrin, react with 1,3-dihydrobenzo[c]thiophene 2,2-dioxide in refluxing 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, giving rise to chlorins, bacteriochlorins or isobacteriochlorins. The products obtained are attractive intermediates for further functionalization of porphyrins and may be of potential use as sensitizers in photodynamic therapy.
ABSTRACTMale rats, rabbits and dogs were exposed to 0, 30 or 100 ppm of 1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene (TCB) for 7 hours/day, 5 days/week for 30 exposures in 44 days. In all 3 species, there were no significant effects on body weight gain, hematologic and serum biochemical tests or gross and histopathologic appearance of tissues. At 100 ppm TCB, both rats and dogs had increased liver weights, and the rats also had increased relative kidney weight at this higher exposure level. Urinary excretion of porphyrins were increased in rats exposed to 30 or 100 ppm TCB, most likely as a result of hepatic induction by TCB. In view of the reversibility of this porphyrin induction noted in a companion study, and the absence of other indications of discernible toxicity, this increased urinary excretion of porphyrins is best considered more of a compound-specific physiologic effect rather than a toxic effect.
In a study to evaluate its acnegenic potential, increasing concentrations of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene were applied topically to the ventral surface of the rabbit ear three times weekly for 13 weeks. Additional groups of rabbits received similar treatment with petroleum ether (solvent controls), received no treatment (negative controls), and received four once-weekly treatments with hexachlorodiphenyloxide, a known chloracnegenic agent (positive controls). Skin response to 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene was characterized grossly by dermal irritation directly related to the concentration of test material; there were the associated histologic changes of acanthosis and hyperkeratosis; there was no primary follicular involvement characteristic of acneform dermatitis. Dermal responses to hexachlorodiphenyloxide consisted of gross follicular enlargement, with waxy excretion on pressure, and severe scaling. The affected ear appeared thickened up to three times normal size and histologic sections showed primary follicular i...
The radiolytic decompositions of low-concentration polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB) and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCBz) in a transformer oil have been studied using a 60 Co gamma ray irradiation facility. Significant decompositions of PCB and TCBz were observed in the oil at tens of kGy absorbed dose without any additive. We derived the required dose for KC500 decomposition in transformer oil using a power function, which indicates that oil with lower PCB concentration needs less dose to treat PCB wastes. We also observed that the gamma radiolyses of PCB and TCBz did not affect each other; the decompositions of PCB and TCBz proceed independently. Both PCB concentration analysis and total chlorine mass concentration analysis indicated that most dechlorinated chlorine atoms react to generate other chlorine compounds in the oil. We found that the gamma radiolysis without additional compounds in the oil can be a useful way of reusing PCB-contaminated transformer oil.
Excess volumes (VE), ultrasonic velocities (u), isentropic compressibility (ΔKs) and viscosities (η) for the binary mixtures of dimethyl formamide (DMF) with 1,2-dichlorobenzene, 1,3-dichlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, o-chlorotoluene, m-chlorotoluene, p-chlorotoluene, o-nitrotoluene and m-nitrotoluene at 303.15 K were studied. Excess volume data exhibit an inversion in sign for the mixtures of dimethyl formamide with 1,2- and 1,3-dichlorobenzenes and the property is completely positive over the entire composition range for the mixtures of dimethyl formamide with 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, o-nitrotoluene and m-nitrotoluene. On the other hand, the quantity is negative for the mixtures of dimethyl formamide with chlorotoluenes. Isentropic compressibility (Ks) has been computed for the same systems from precise sound velocity and density data. Further, deviation of isentropic compressibility (ΔKs) from ideal behavior was also calculated. ΔKs values are negative over the entire volume fraction range in all the binary mixtures. The experimental sound velocity data were analysed in terms of Free Length Theory (FLT) and Collision Factor Theory (CFT). The viscosity data were analysed on the basis of corresponding state approach. The measured data were discussed on the basis of intermolecular interactions between unlike molecules.
The prepns. are described of the local anesthetic compds. MeO2CCH2CHRNHCHRCH2CH2OBz and the N-methyl derivs. 3-Amino-1-butanol (I), b11 63-5 Deg, was prepd. in 37.8% yield by dropwise addn. of a suspension of 28.5 g. LiAlH4 in 900 ml. abs. Et2O to an abs. Et2O soln. (500 ml.) of 0.4 mole methyl acetoacetate oxime (II), and stirring the gently boiling mixt. for 5 hrs. Me beta -[(3-hydroxy-1-methylpropyl)amino]crotonate (III), b0.01 125-6 Deg, was prepd. in 85.5% yield by mixing 23.2 g. Me acetoacetate and 8.9 g. I, adding anhyd. (ignited) Na2SO4, and shaking. Me beta -[(3-hydroxy-1-methylpropyl)amino] butyrate (IV), b0.06 90-1 Deg was prepd. in 69% yield by H-Pt redn. of 14.04 g. III in 100 ml. of abs. MeOH. Dropwise addn. of 2.8 g. BzCl in 20 ml. abs. Et2O to 40 ml. abs. Et2O contg. 3.8 g. IV and refluxing the stirred soln. for 1 hr. yielded 8.5% MeO2CCH2CHMeNHCHMeCH2CH2OBz (V), b0.01 144-5 Deg, purified by countercurrent extn. with 12:28:40 MeOH-2% HCl-CHCl3. V also was prepd. by dropwise addn. of 1.9 g. IV (in 10 ml. abs. Et2O) to Et2O satd. with HCl gas, and evapg. the Et2O from the mixt. in vacuo. The residue was dissolved in 100 ml. 1:1 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene-CHCl3. BzCl (1.4 g.) was added, and the soln. was refluxed for 24 hrs. to give 19.2% V, b0.1 144-8 Deg. Me beta -methylaminobutyrate (VI) was prepd., at 1 atm., by mixing 105 ml. 8.7% MeNH2 in MeOH with 30 g. Me crotonate and allowing the mixt. to stand 1 day at 25 Deg. Alc. MeNH2 was prepd. by adding aq. 33% MeNH2 to solid NaOH, and absorbing the MeNH2 in abs. MeOH. The reaction of Me crotonate and MeNH2 in MeOH also was performed at >1 atm. by heating the mixt. for 3 hrs. at 60 Deg in a 1-1. autoclave. After distg. MeOH, the residue was distd. in vacuo, giving 30.1 g. (at 1 atm.) or 50 g. (at >1 atm.) VI, b12 53 Deg. 3-Methylamino-1-butanol (VII), b13 77-9 Deg, was prepd. in 83.2% yield by redn. of 26.2 g. VI in 400 ml. abs. Et2O with 19 g. LiAlH4 suspended in 800 ml. abs. Et2O. Me beta -[N-methyl-N-(3-hydroxy-1-methylpropyl)amino] butyrate (VIII), b0.01 94-5 Deg, was prepd. by 28.6% yield by mixing 10.3 g. VII in 10 ml. abs. MeOH with 10 g. Me crotonate, and allowing the soln. to stand for 14 days at 25 Deg. Dropwise addn. of 1.4 g. BzCl in 20 ml. abs. Et2O to a stirred soln. of 2 g. VIII and 1 g. Et3N in 20 ml. abs. Et2O and keeping .apprx.1 hr. gave MeO2CCH2CHMeNMeCHMeCH2CH2OBz, b0.01 162-4 Deg, in 45.6% yield. 21 references.
The degradation of a mixture of 13 chloroaromatics, 2-chloro-, 3-chloro-, 4-chloro- and 3,4-dichloroaniline,2-chloro-, 3-chloro-,4-chloro-, 3,4-dichloro-and 3,5-dichlorobenzoate, and chloro-,1,2-dichloro-, 1,4-dichloro- and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene in soil slurries by a mixed culture of Pseudomonas acidovorans strain BN 3.1, Pseudomonas ruhlandii strain FRB2, Pseudomonas cepacia strain JH230 and Pseudomonas aeruginosa strain RHO1 was studied. About 70% of the organic bound chlorine was eliminated after 25 days from soil with a carbon content of 8% (soil 1) when 2–3 × 105 cells/g soil of each of the strains were added to the slurries. The effect of the clean-up was demonstrated by a biological test using cress and wheat. Both plants showed good germination and growth on both non-contaminated soils and the contaminated soil 1 after the biotreatment with the strains. No growth was observed when the plants were incubated with the contaminated soil 1 and with the contaminated and biotreated soil 2 (carbon content 2.6%). This indicates that the remaining 30% of organic chlorine in soil 1 after biotreatment does not influence the germination and growth of the two plants tested. *** DIRECT SUPPORT *** AG903062 00010
Abstract Microsomal mixed-function oxidase systems from rat liver and house fly abdomen effectively metabolized isomers of 3,4,5,6-tetrachlorocyclohexene, 1,3,4,5,6-pentachlorocyclohexene, and 1,2,3,4,5,6-hexachlorocyclohexene to tetrachlorocyclohexenol isomers, 2,4,5,-trichlorophenol, and 2,3,4,6-tetrachlorophenol, respectively. The ( 346 5 )-isomer of pentachlorocyclohexene gave also an abundant amount of pentachlorocyclohexenol isomers. As the metabolites of ( 36 45 )-, ( 35 46 )-, and ( 34 56 )-hexachlorocyclohexene , some compounds such as 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, 1,2,3,4-tetrachlorobenzene, and pentachlorobenzene were more abundantly formed, respectively, than 2,3,4,6-tetrachlorophenol. These oxidative metabolic reactions were shown to mainly proceed via “ene-like” hydroxylation accompanied by double bond migration. Inhibition by CO, piperonyl butoxide, and SKF 525-A suggested that the “ene-like” hydroxylating enzyme was cytochrome P -450 dependent. The formation of an isomer of pentachlorocyclohexenol from ( 36 45 )-hexachlorocyclohexene was also observed, and this reaction was activated by SKF 525-A.
Abstract In the presence of excess dimethylacetylene dicarboxylate (DMAD), nickel(II) pyrrolo[3,4- b ]porphyrins undergo both Diels–Alder cycloaddition and Michael addition in toluene to give two bis-adducts, identified as compounds 4 and 5 ; the reaction can be accelerated by the addition of Lewis or Bronsted–Lowry acids. Refluxing the reaction mixture in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (220 °C) leads to a nickel(II) monobenzoporphyrin 2 as the main product. The structure of compound 4 was confirmed by X-ray crystallography.
Abstract A three compartment (root, stem and leaf) model of a plant is described in which chemical uptake from soil and/or air is quantified. Chemical partitioning between the various compartments is described using fugacity as an equilibrium criterion. Simple steady state, equilibrium partitioning calculations are described for an illustrative plant (soybean) and four chemicals — hexachlorobenzene, 2,4-D, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and a hexachlorobiphenyl. An unsteady state non-equilibrium model describing the time-course of chemical uptake is developed. This model can be solved by numerical integration, or a simple, approximate algebraic solution can be used in which the extent of approach to a steady state condition is estimated using inter-compartment transfer delay terms. The model is illustrated, its features are described, and future developments towards establishing a fully validated model are discussed.
Four xenobiotics, benzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, cyclohexane and γ-1,2,3,4,5,6-hexachlorocyclohexane were orally administered at 17 LD50 dose levels to Sprague Dawley rats. Seventy-two hours after dosing, the specific activity of the hepatic MFO system of each animal was determined in vitro by measuring NADPH utilization when each of the four xenobiotics was added as the substrate. For each of the four dose types, the specific activity in vitro showed no dependence on substrate stereo-chemistry, but was inversely related to the C-H bond strength of the substrate. For each substrate, the specific activities of each of the four types of MFO preparations varied directly with the C-H bond strength of the inducer. This implies that the specific activity of the induced MFO enzyme system is adjusted to the C-H bond breaking requirement which leads to the hydroxylation of the xenobiotic. ::: ::: This hypothesis was further examined following in vivo exposure of rats to six polychlorinated derivatives of dibenzo-p-dioxin (PCDD). The specific activity of each MFO extract was determined by use of all other PCDD's as substrates. The dioxins showed a consistent ranking for both activity as substrate and as inducer but, unlike the monocyclic hydrocarbons, the two rankings were not a simple inverse of each other. ::: ::: By combining a series of in vivo and in vitro tests, a structure-activity-relationship can be developed to relate the mixed function oxidase (MFO) response to the physico-chemical properties of a xenobiotic. Following in vivo exposure to one of a series of hydrocarbons or their chlorinated
Abstract The reaction of 2.5-di- and 2,3,5,6-tetrachloroterephthalate esters with both alkyl and arylmercaptides in triglyme solvent at room temperature gave the corresponding di- and tetra-substituted alkylthio- and arylthio-substituted terephthalate esters. Similarly, the reaction of both 2,5-di- and 2,3,5,6-tetrachloroterephthalate thioesters with potassium n-octylmercaptide, 2a, in triglyme gave the bis- and tetrakis(n-octylthio)terephthalate thioesters respectively. Both activated and unactivated aryl chlorides reacted with a suspension of a potassium alkylmercaptide in xylene using 18-crown-6 as a solid-liquid phase-transfer catalyst to give the corresponding alkylthio-substituted benzenes. The reaction of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene with sodium n-dodecylmercaptide in tetraglyme solvent gave 1,2,4-tris(n-dodecylthio)benzene.
A systematic study of the effect of chlorinated aromatic solvents such as monochlorobenzene (MCB), 1,2-dichlorobenzene (o-DCB), 1,3-dichlorobenzene (m-DCB) and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) on the dispersion of HiPco SWNTs has been conducted. UV-Vis-NIR absorption spectroscopy coupled with an integrating sphere is employed to differentiate absorbance and scattering. An investigation of the effect of sonication time on sample preparation shows that sonication has a significant effect on the dispersion of SWNTs in organic solvents. The effect of eentrifugation of the samples is also explored. For each solvent, a concentration dependent study demonstrates a clear transition between aggregates and dispersed tubes. A critical examination of the efficacy of the solvents in dispersing and solubilising the nanotubes is presented.
Ethylene–vinyl acetate (EVA) copolymers are in dependence on their chemical composition, amorphous, or semicrystalline materials. Therefore, fractionation techniques which are based on crystallization, such as temperature rising elution fractionation (TREF) and crystallization fractionation (CRYSTAF), cannot offer information about the chemical composition distribution of these polymers in the case of amorphous samples. Liquid chromatography has been shown to be a valuable alternative; yet, systems based on silica gel lacked in terms of long-term stability. Using porous graphite, this drawback may be overcome. An HPLC column packed with porous graphite Hypercarb™ and a solvent gradient 2-ethyl-1-hexanol (or cyclohexanone) → 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene can separate EVA copolymers over the full range of VA content at temperatures above 100 °C. A linear dependence between the VA content of the copolymers and their elution volume could be established. Moreover, the chromatographic resolution is larger than obtained using silica gel as stationary phase.
Abstract Molar excess volumes V m E at 298.15 K were obtained, as a function of mole fraction x for the four binary liquids 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene + n -hexane, + n -nonane, + n -decane, and + n -tetradecane from measurements of the density with a vibrating-tube densimeter. In addition, a Picker flow calorimeter was used to determine molar excess heat capacities C p .m E at constant pressure at 298.15 K for three of these mixtures: 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene + n -hexane, + n -nonane, and + n -decane. V m E for { x 1,2,4-C 6 H 3 Cl 3 + (1 − x )C 6 H 14 ) is negative and rather large (at x = 0.5, V m E = −0.941 cm 3 ·mol −1 ), and becomes more positive with increasing chain length n of the alkane C n H 2 n + 2 . For example, for ( x 1,2,4-C 6 H 3 Cl 3 + (1 − x )C 14 H 30 ) we observe V m E = 0.103 cm 3 ·mol −1 at x = 0.5. The C p. m E 's are all negative. For the range of n considered (6 ⩽ n ⩽ 10), the absolute value | C p .m E | decreases with increasing n .
Two Pseudomonas sp. strains, capable of growth on chlorinated benzenes as the sole source of carbon and energy, were isolated by selective enrichment from soil samples of an industrial waste deposit. Strain PS12 grew on monochlorobenzene, all three isomeric dichlorobenzenes, and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB). Strain PS14 additionally used 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene (1,2,4,5-TeCB). During growth on these compounds both strains released stoichiometric amounts of chloride ions. The first steps of the catabolism of 1,2,4-TCB and 1,2,4,5-TeCB proceeded via dioxygenation of the aromatic nuclei and furnished 3,4,6-trichlorocatechol. The intermediary cis-3,4,6-trichloro-1,2-dihydroxycyclohexa-3,5-diene (TCB dihydrodiol) formed from 1,2,4-TCB was rearomatized by an NAD+-dependent dihydrodiol dehydrogenase activity, while in the case of 1,2,4,5-TeCB oxidation the catechol was obviously produced by spontaneous elimination of hydrogen chloride from the initially formed 1,3,4,6-tetrachloro-1,2-dihydroxycyclohexa-3,5-diene. Subsequent ortho cleavage was catalyzed by a type II catechol 1,2-dioxygenase producing the corresponding 2,3,5-trichloromuconate which was channeled into the tricarboxylic acid pathway via an ordinary degradation sequence, which in the present case included 2-chloro-3-oxoadipate. From the structure-related compound 2,4,5-trichloronitrobenzene the nitro group was released as nitrite, leaving the above metabolite as 3,4,6-trichlorocatechol. Enzyme activities for the oxidation of chlorobenzenes and halogenated metabolites were induced by both strains during growth on these haloaromatics and, to a considerable extent, during growth of strain PS12 on acetate.
The reaction with hydroxyl radicals appears to be the major transformation route for many organic compounds in the atmosphere. To avoid the difficulties of measuring the rate constants for these reactions in the gas phase for some compounds, we have developed a solution-phase system for measuring relative rates. This system involves photolysis of continuously extracted 90% hydrogen peroxide into 1,1,2-trichlorotrifluoroethane solution, which contains two or more organic compounds, one of which serves as a reference standard whose gas-phase rate constant is known. Reasonable correlations (r/sup 2/ = 0.84, 0.87) were obtained between the relative solution-phase rates and the absolute gas-phase rate constants, which varied over 4 orders of magnitude for n-hexane, 2,2,4-trimethylpentane, cyclohexane, 1,1,1,-trichloroethane, cyclohexene, trichloroethene, tetra-chloroethene, ethyl acetate, toluene, n-propylbenzene, o-xylene, p-isopropyltoluene, 1,2,4-trimethylbenzene, 1,3,5-trimethylbenzene, biphenyl, naphthalene, hexafluorobenzene, o-dichlorobenzene, m-dichlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, anisole, and nitrobenzene. This method allows estimations of the gas-phase rate constants to within 1 order of magnitude or better.
Two Pseudomonas sp. strains, capable of growth on chlorinated benzenes as the sole source of carbon and energy, were isolated by selective enrichment from soil samples of an industrial waste deposit. Strain PS12 grew on monochlorobenzene, all three isomeric dichlorobenzenes, and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB). Strain PS14 additionally used 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene (1, 2, 4, . During growth on these compounds both strains released stoichiometric amounts of chloride ions. The first steps of the catabolism of 1,2,4-TCB and 1,2,4,5-TeCB proceeded via dioxygenation of the aromatic nuclei and furnished 3,4,6-trichlorocatechol. The intermediary cis-3,4,6-trichloro-1,2-dihydroxycyclohexa-3,5-diene (TCB dihydrodiol) formed from 1,2,4-TCB was rearomatized by an NAD+-dependent dihydrodiol dehydrogenase activity, while in the case of 1,2,4,5-TeCB oxidation the catechol was obviously produced by spontaneous elimination of hydrogen chloride from the initially formed 1,3,4,6-tetrachloro-1,2-dihydroxycyclohexa-3,5-diene. Subsequent ortho cleavage was catalyzed by a type II catechol 1,2-dioxygenase producing the corresponding 2,3,5-trichloromuconate which was channeled into the tricarboxylic acid pathway via an ordinary degradation sequence, which in the present case included 2-chloro-3-oxoadipate. From the structure-related compound 2,4,5-trichloronitrobenzene the nitro group was released as nitrite, leaving the above metabolite as 3,4,6-trichlorocatechol. Enzyme activities for the oxidation of chlorobenzenes and halogenated metabolites were induced by both strains during growth on these haloaromatics and, to a considerable extent, during growth of strain PS12 on acetate.
Aim To investigate the serption mechanism of chlorobenzenes on CTMAB modified kaolinite.Methods Conducting sorption experiments to research the sorption mechanism of 4 chlorebenzenes(CBs),such as chloroben- zene,1,4-dichlorobensene,1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene,by CTMAB modified kaolin- ires.Results He sorption isotherms for CBs were nearly linear;the distribution coefficient Koc values of 4 CBs were relatively constant for different CTMAB-kaolinites,and were much larger than those on soils;the relationship between Koe on CTMAB-kaolinites and properties of CBs can be described as that Koc increases respectively with the increase of Kow and the decrease of their water solubilities.Conclusion CBs are petitioned into the organic phase created by the surfactant tails of the CTMAB modified kaolinite;the Koc on CTMAB-kaolinites and properties of CBs are nearly related,which is very important for remediation technology of contaminated soils and groundwa- ters.
The invention provides a synthesis of phenanthrenequinone derivative with strong fluorescence which is used for the preparation of green ink on a color printer. The quinine derivative is synthesized by three steps as follows: step 1: neutralizing 4-butylaniline by diphenylglyoxal and mesitylene diphenylglyoxal with the existence of zinc chloride, refluxing and condensing the mixture for 7-8 hours and dehydrating the mixture, keeping the condensation product for the use of reaction in step 2; step 2: adding the product of step 1 in tetrahydrofuran and protecting the product with inert gas, performing a reflux reaction with lithium for 4.5 hours, decomposing the reactant with ethanol, and then hydrolyzing the decomposed reactant, extracting the hydrolysate with toluene, washing, drying and filtering the extract, and then vaporizing the product till the product gets dry, and devitrifying the product with ethanol; step 3: heating copper and potassium carbonate above 150 DEG C in isolated air for 1 hour, after cooling, reacting the cooled copper and potassium carbonate with p-iodotoluene and the product of step 2 in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene at a temperature of 220-224 DEG C, and separating out produced water, wherein the p-iodotoluene is required to add during the reaction, after the reaction is finished, removing 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and p-iodotoluene by a reduced pressure distillation way; as the obtained oily matter is dissolved in cyclohexane, adding dehydrated active carclazyte and cyclohexane respectively in the product, filtering the product, devitrifying the product with ethanol after condensing the product, obtaining light yellow green solids after being cooled and filtered, and drying the solids in a reduced pressure below 60 DEG C. The structure of the product is as shown in the following formula.
Transformation of 1,2,3- and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene in the presence of 20 mM sodium formate, by the methanotrophic bacterium Methylosinus trichosporium OB3b, was studied using cells grown in batch and continuous culture. Only 1,2,3-trichlorobenzene was transformed and transformation was strictly co-metabolic, only catalysed in the presence of the soluble form of methane monooxygenase. The kinetics of transformation could be described by simple first-order kinetics (0.00193 l min-1 g-1). Also the kinetics of transformation were found to be linearly proportional to cell density. No chloride ion release was observed during the reaction and the products of transformation (2,3,4- and 3,4,5-trichlorophenol) were identified by gas chromatography/mass spectroscopy and 1H-NMR and a 1.84:1 ratio of products in favour of para hydroxylation was observed. It was also observed that the relationship between mass of substrate transformed and cell density was linear giving a transformation capacity of 88.8±11.8 μmol g-1, after which the transformation of 1,2,3-trichlorobenzene was inhibited. This inhibition was not due to O2 limitation, co-substrate (CHOONa) limitation or product inhibition. Recovery and washing of the cells did not reverse this inhibition, indicating that inhibition was irreversible. During transformation a substantial decrease in the endogenous and formate-dependent O2 consumption rates was observed, although the methanol-dependent O2 consumption rate varied little between fresh cell samples and samples that had been used to transform 1,2,3-trichlorobenzene.
Adsorption of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB), 2,4,6-trichlorophenol (TCP), 2-naphthol and naphthalene (NAPH) on graphene (G) and graphene oxide (GO) was investigated using a batch equilibration method and micro-Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy. All adsorption isotherms of four aromatics on G and GO were nonlinear, indicating that except for hydrophobic interaction, some specific interactions were involved in adsorption. For G, four aromatics had similar adsorption capacity at pH 5.0 in despite of their different chemical properties. A series of pH-dependent experimental results showed that 2-naphthol had higher adsorption capacity on G at alkaline pH than that at acidic pH. Theoretical calculation ascribed this to higher pi-electron density of anionic 2-naphthol than that of neutral 2-naphthol, which facilitated the pi-pi interaction formation with G. For GO, the adsorption affinity of four aromatics increased in the order: NAPH < TCB < TCP < 2-naphthol. FTIR results revealed that TCB, TCP and 2-naphthol were adsorbed on G mainly via pi-pi interaction. In contrast, high adsorption of TCP and 2-naphthol on GO was attributed to the formation of H-bonding between hydroxyl groups of TCP and 2-naphthol and O-containing functional groups on GO. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Hydrophobic and volatile chemicals have proven to be difficult to dose in cell assays. Cosolvents are often needed to dissolve these chemicals in cell culture medium. Moreover, the free concentration of these chemicals in culture medium may diminish over time due to metabolism, evaporation, and nonspecific binding to well plate surfaces and serum constituents. The aim of this study was to develop a partitioncontrolled dosing system to maintain constant concentrations of benzo(a)pyrene, 1,2-dichlorobenzene, and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene in an ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase (EROD) assay and a cytotoxicity assay with the rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) cell lines RTL-W1 and RTgill-W1. Polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) sheets were loaded with test chemicals in a spiked methanol/water solution and placed in the wells, filled with culture medium, of a 24-well culture plate. Cells were grown on inserts and were subsequently added to the wells with the PDMS sheets. The system reached equilibrium within 24 h, even for the very hydrophobic chemical benzo(a)pyrene. The reservoir of test chemical in PDMS was large enough to compensate for the loss of >95% of the test chemical from the culture medium. The PDMS sheets maintained medium concentrations constant for >72 h. Nominal median effect concentrations (EC50) were 1.3-7.0 times lower in the partition-controlled dosing systems than in conventional assays spiked using dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) as a carrier solvent, thus indicating that the apparent sensitivity of the bioassay increased when controlled and constant exposure conditions could be assured. The EC50 values of the test chemicals based on free concentrations were estimated in the partition-controlled dosing systems using measured PDMS-bare culture medium partition coefficients. Results indicated that 61, 70, and 99.8% of 1,2-diclorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, and benzo(a)pyrene were bound to serum constituents in the culture medium.
2 Abstract: Soil and sludge samples polluted with petroleum waste from Cairo Oil Refining Company, Mostorod, Al-Qalyubia, Egypt for more than 41 years were used for isolation of indigenous microbial communities. These communities were grow on four chloroaromatic compounds (3-chlorobenzoic acid (3-CBA); 2,4-dichlorophenol (2,4-DCP); 2,6-dichlorophenol indole phenol (2,6-DCPP) and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB)) as a sole carbon and energy source. The abilities of the eight different communities to grow and degrade these chlorinated compounds had been investigated by recording their growth (OD) and secretion of extracellular protein at zero time (initial), 7, 15 and 28 days of incubation period. Count of these communities was determined after 28 days incubation. The increase in bacterial count of the eight communities was ranging from 0.2 to 1.5 log cycles on 3-CBA, 1.0 to 2.3 log cycles on 2,4-DCP, 0.6 to 1.7 log cycles on 2,6-DCPP and 0.4 to 2.7 log cycles on 1,2,4-TCB. The highest total bacterial count (zero time) was 3.0×10 CFU/ml and 6
Using rice cultivars of Shanyou 63(indica hybrid) and Wuyujing 7(japonica) as materials,the effects of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene(TCB)and naphthalene(NAP) on the seed germination,growth and physiology of rice seedlings were studied.The results were as follows: ① TCB and NAP had little effects on the seed germination,but suppressed significantly the plant height,root length and root number.Under solution cultured conditions,lower concentration of TCB(10 mg·L-1)and NAP(20 mg·L-1)suppressed significantly root growth,but increased the root number of Wuyunjing 7;② TCB and NAP had a little effect on root activity at low concentration,but had significant influence at higher concentration;③ TCB and NAP also influenced chlorophyll content and Rubisco activity in leaves of rice seedling;④ ATP content in shoot and root increased firstly and then decreased with increasing concentration both of TCB and NAP;⑤ Malondialdehyde(MDA) content in shoot and root of rice seedling increased strongly proportionally to TCB and NAP concentration.The results suggested that a low content of TCB and NAP would significantly influence the growth of rice seedling,presenting an important suggestion for water quality management during rice seedling period,and root length could act as an inference plant morphologic indicator for organic incident of TCB or NAP.
Environmental pollution by polychlorinated chlorinated organic wastes is of great concern. Catalytic hydrodechlorination is considered clean and efficient methodology for safe disposal of chlorinated organic wastes. This work aims at studying the catalytic hydrodechlorination reaction for the removal of environmentally polluting chlorinated organic wastes: 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) and Trichloroethylene (TCE). The research has focused on evaluation of the activity, selectivity and stability of newly synthesized Pd based catalysts for hydrodechlorination of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and trichloroethylene. The first part, related to the HDC of 1,2,4-TCB, is to obtain active and stable catalyst for the hydrodechlorination of C-Cl bond of aromatic compounds to non chlorinated organic aromatic compound (benzene). While the second part aims at obtaining catalysts that allow high selectivity to ethylene formation during the HDC Trichloroethylene. Pd based hydrotalcite derived mixed oxides with different surface property were explored as catalysts for hydrodechlorination reaction. In addition, bimetallic and monometallic heterogeneous catalytic systems were investigated for selective hydrodechlorination reaction. Detailed characterization of the active centers of the newly synthesized catalysts by different techniques was achieved. This work presents original ideas, which could find a practical application, for the treatment of organo-halogenated pollutants.
Abstract Chlorobenzene, 1,4-dichlorobenzene, 1-bromo-4-chlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, and hexachlorobenzene were administered po for 14 days to adult male rats. All but chlorobenzene decreased hexobarbital sleeping times immediately and/or 14 days following treatment. Cytochrome c reductase, cytochrome P-450, EPN detoxification, glucuronyltransferase, benzypyrene hydroxylase, and azoreductase were increased to varying degrees by the administration for 14 days of these four chlorinated benzenes at doses from 10 to 40 mg/kg/day. Administration of 1,4-dichlorobenzene or 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene for 90 days at these doses resulted in increases in EPN detoxification, benzpyrene hydroxylase and azoreductase. The former two were still elevated 30 days after cessation of the administration of the compounds. 1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene was found to be a more potent inducer with cytochrome c reductase and cytochrome P-450 also being elevated and remaining so through the 30-day recovery period. It is concluded that even simple chlorinated benzenes can induce the metabolism of foreign organic compounds.
Polyphosphazenes bearing cationic moieties were synthesized from poly(dichloro)phosphazene, which in turn was obtained by thermal polymerization of hexachlorocyclotriphosphazene in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. Next, either 2-dimethylaminoethanol (DMAE) or 2-dimethylaminoethylamine (DMAEA) side groups were introduced by a substitution reaction. The polymers were purified by dialysis against water and tetrahydrofuran, lyophilized and evaluated as polymeric transfectants. The polyphosphazenes were able to bind plasmid DNA yielding positively charged particles (polyplexes) with a size around 80 nm at a polymer/DNA ratio of 3:1 (w/w). The polyphosphazene-based polyplexes were able to transfect COS-7 cells in vitro with an efficiency comparable to a well-known polymeric transfectant [poly(2-dimethylaminoethyl methacrylate), pDMAEMA]. The toxicity of both polyphosphazenes was lower than pDMAEMA. The transfection efficiency for the poly(DMAE)phosphazene-based polyplexes was about threefold higher in the absence of serum than in the presence of 5.0% fetal bovine serum. This is probably caused by unfavorable interactions of the polyplexes with serum proteins. In contrast, the poly(DMAEA)phosphazene-based polyplexes showed a threefold lower transfection activity in the absence of serum. For this system, serum proteins likely masked the toxicity of the polyplexes, as shown by the XTT cell viability assay and confocal laser scanning microscopy studies. Preliminary degradation studies indicate that the polymers were indeed degradable. The half-life at pH 7.5 and 37 degrees C was around 7 days for poly(DMAE)phosphazenes and 24 days for poly(DMAEA)phosphazenes. This study shows that polyphosphazenes are a suitable and promising new class of biodegradable polymeric carriers for gene delivery.
Hydrophobic and volatile chemicals have proven to be difficult to dose in cell assays. Cosolvents are often needed to dissolve these chemicals in cell culture medium. Moreover, the free concentration of these chemicals in culture medium may diminish over time due to metabolism, evaporation, and nonspecific binding to well plate surfaces and serum constituents. The aim of this study was to develop a partitioncontrolled dosing system to maintain constant concentrations of benzo(a)pyrene, 1,2-dichlorobenzene, and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene in an ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase (EROD) assay and a cytotoxicity assay with the rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) cell lines RTL-W1 and RTgill-W1. Polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) sheets were loaded with test chemicals in a spiked methanol/water solution and placed in the wells, filled with culture medium, of a 24-well culture plate. Cells were grown on inserts and were subsequently added to the wells with the PDMS sheets. The system reached equilibrium within 24 h, even for the very hydrophobic chemical benzo(a)pyrene. The reservoir of test chemical in PDMS was large enough to compensate for the loss of >95% of the test chemical from the culture medium. The PDMS sheets maintained medium concentrations constant for >72 h. Nominal median effect concentrations (EC 50 ) were 1.3-7.0 times lower in the partition-controlled dosing systems than in conventional assays spiked using dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) as a carrier solvent, thus indicating that the apparent sensitivity of the bioassay increased when controlled and constant exposure conditions could be assured. The EC 50 values of the test chemicals based on free concentrations were estimated in the partition-controlled dosing systems using measured PDMS-bare culture medium partition coefficients. Results indicated that 61, 70, and 99.8% of 1,2-diclorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, and benzo(a)pyrene were bound to serum constituents in the culture medium.
The selective oxidation of cyclohexene is particularly interesting as it can yield, depending on the catalyst and the reaction conditions, several products as shown in Scheme 1. In this study, the reaction was carried out with tert-butyl hydroperoxide (70 wt% TBHP in water) as oxidant and chloroform as solvent. The internal standard used was 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. The molar ratios were chloroform : cyclohexene : TBHP : 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene = 462 : 1 : 2 : 1. The reaction temperature was kept constant at 323 K. Samples were taken out from the reaction mixture at certain times and analyzed by gas chromatography. Next, MIL-47 was compared with a homogeneous vanadium catalyst vanadyl acetylacetonate VO(acac) 2 . Prior to the reaction, all the catalysts were dried under vacuum. Blank tests were performed without catalyst and no cyclohexene conversion was observed. Fig. 1 depicts the cyclohexene conversion and the detailed product distributions for MIL-47 and the homogeneous VO(acac) 2 catalyst. In both reactions, we used an identical amount of V-sites (0.4 mmol, 0.095 g MIL-47 and 0.106 g VO(acac) 2 ). The four main reaction products formed are cyclohexene oxide 2, cyclohexane-1,2-diol 3, tert-butyl-2-cyclohexenyl-1-peroxide 4 and 2-cyclohexen-1-one 5. From these figures it can be seen that the homogeneous catalyst VO(acac) 2 and the MIL-47 show high reaction rates for the conversion of cyclohexene. The initial turnover frequencies considered at the first 20 min are 57 h À1 and 43 h À1 for the VO(acac) 2 and the MIL-47 respectively. Both catalysts showed an almost linear conversion rate during the first 2 h of reaction and finally topped out at 60% conversion. The turnover numbers calculated at the end of the reaction were 62 and 68 for VO(acac) 2 and MIL-47 respectively. Moreover, considering the product distributions, truly interesting similarities between both catalysts are observed. Firstly, the cyclohexene oxide is formed during the first 2 h and is topped out at 15%, but its yield decreases with increasing reaction time. At the same time and at the same reaction rate the oxide is decreasing, the cyclohexane-1,2-diol formation is observed, indicating a consecutive reaction is taking place. After 5 h, the diol formation reaches a plateau at 15%. Additionally, both catalysts produce a significant amount of tert-butyl-2-cyclohexenyl-1-peroxide 4 (30%) as determined by GC-GC-TOF-MS and a minimal amount of 2-cyclohexen-1-one 5 (5%).
Five seasonal vegetables from three growing sites in Hangzhou city, Zhejiang Province, were studied for the levels of four chlorobenzenes(CBs): o-dichlorobenzene (o-DCB), p-dichlorobenzene (p-DCB), m-dichlorobenzene (m-DCB), and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB). Samples of each vegetable from each site were subdivided into leaves, stems, and roots, and these subsamples were analyzed separately for the levels of accumulated CBs. Relations between the levels of CBs in vegetables with the total organic carbon (TOC) of the soil, the lipid content of the vegetable, and the physicochemical properties of CBs were established. Results showed that o-DCB, p-DCB, m-DCB, 1,2,4-TCB were present in all vegetables analyzed. For spinaches (Spinacia oleracea), Chinese cabbages (Brassica rapa var. pekinensis), and celery (Apium graveolens var. dulce), the highest level of CBs was with roots, followed by leaves. While for radishes (Raphanus sativus), and carrots (Daucus carota subsp. sativus), the highest level was with leaves, followed by stems. The accumulation of CBs was found to have a good correlation with the plant-tissue lipid content, the contaminant air–water Henry's coefficient (H), the contaminant octanol–water partition coefficient (Kow), and the physiological characteristics of the vegetables.
In this article, we present a detailed study combining the kinetic studies and in-situ FTIR experiments to investigate the oxidation behavior of chlorobenzene over V2O5/TiO2 catalysts. The catalytic data show the 3-5 wt.% V2O5/TiO2 catalysts are best fit for the oxidation of chlorobenzene. The calculated apparent reaction orders are about 0.6 and 0.2, respectively. The results of in-situ FTIR provided mechanism insights into the catalytic reaction, which supports the following proposal: (i) a nucleophilic substitution on V=O species and (ii) attacking by surface oxygen through a electrophilic substitution, then (iii) followed by the cracking of ring structure, and further oxidation of the resulting species to form final products. The above results further suggest that the nucleophilic substitution process and surface reaction are kinetically significant steps for chlorobenzene oxidation, determining the overall rate of the reaction. Furthermore, 1,2-dichlorobenzene, 1,3-dichlorobenzene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene as additional reactants were tested together with chlorobenzene in binary mixtures to examine their competition reactions. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Dehalobacter sp. strain TeCB1 was isolated from groundwater contaminated with a mixture of organohalides and is able to respire 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. Here, we report its 3.13-Mb draft genome sequence.
A simple and convenient one-pot synthesis of THF solutions of high molecular weight poly(dichlorophosphazene) [NPCl(2)](n), or the (15)N isotopomer [(15)NPCl(2)](n), starting directly from PCl(5) and NH(4)Cl or (15)NH(4)Cl in a solution of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene in the presence of sulfamic acid and calcium sulfate dihydrate, is described. The solutions of [NPCl(2)](n) in THF, which are obtained free of poly(tetrahydrofuran) by preparing them in the presence of K(2)CO(3), can be reacted directly with phenols, biphenols, or even HO-CH(2)CF(3) in the presence of K(2)CO(3) or Cs(2)CO(3) to obtain, after a very simple workup, the corresponding polyphosphazene derivatives almost free of chlorine.
As a part of the study on the surfactant-aided remediation of organic contaminants, solvent extraction was investigated to determine its efficiency for used surfactant recycling. The experiments used a glass column 70 cm height with an internal diameter of 3 cm. The convex orifice with four holes (4 mm outer diameter) was installed at the base of the column. Four percent aqueous surfactant solutions solubilizing toluene or 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) as model contaminants were injected in the column. Acetone, hexane, and methylene chloride were used as the solvent, and the solvent was allowed to flow upward through the surfactant solution in the column and circulated by a pump. Toluene and 1,2,4-TCB were effectively removed from the aqueous solution of anionic surfactant diphenyl oxide disulfonate (DOSL, trade name Dowfax 8390) using hexane and methylene chloride as the solvent. The times required for 98% removal of the toluene and 1,2,4-TCB were 5 h with methylene chloride or hexane flow rates of 30 ml/min. This indicates that the present solvent extraction method may help recycle anionic surfactant solutions used for remediation of contaminated soil. © 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
Cross-linked polymers are used in many commercial products and are traditionally incapable of recycling via melt reprocessing. Recently, tough and reprocessable cross-linked polymers have been realized by incorporating cross-links that undergo associative exchange reactions, such as transesterification, at elevated temperatures. Here we investigate how cross-linked polymers containing urethane linkages relax stress under similar conditions, which enables their reprocessing. Materials based on hydroxyl-terminated star-shaped poly(ethylene oxide) and poly((±)-lactide) were cross-linked with methylene diphenyldiisocyanate in the presence of stannous octoate catalyst. Polymers with lower plateau moduli exhibit faster rates of relaxation. Reactions of model urethanes suggest that exchange occurs through the tin-mediated exchange of the urethanes that does not require free hydroxyl groups. Furthermore, samples were incapable of elevated-temperature dissolution in a low-polarity solvent (1,2,4-trichlorobenzene) ...
The acyclic diene metathesis (ADMET) polymerization of 6-hydroxy-1,10-undecadiene (M1) and 6-acetoxy-1,10-undecadiene (M2) by the action of two different catalysts, i.e., the second-generation Grubbs-Hoveyda system ([RuCl2(IMesH2)(CH-2-(2-PrO-C6H4)]) (1) and the dicationic ruthenium alkylidene [Ru(DMF)3(IMesH2)(CH-2-(2-PrO-C6H4)] (2, IMesH2 = 1,3-dimesitylimidazolin-2-ylidene) is reported. Biphasic conditions using 1-butyl-2,3-dimethylimidazolium tetrafluoroborate ([BDMIM(+)BF4(-)]) and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) are applied. Under the chosen conditions (T = 75 °C, 20 mbar), the use of catalyst 1 results only in the formation of low-molecular-weight polymers (Mn ≤ 10,000 g mol(-1)), while catalyst 2 allows for the high yield synthesis of high-molecular-weight polymers (Mn ≤ 40,000 g mol(-1), yields ≤ 99%). Irrespective of the catalyst used, all polymers display a high trans-content (>95%). Notably, Ru-contamination of the target polymers without any additional purification is as low as 1.2 ppm with catalyst 2. Together with the high yields and high molecular weights, the low Ru-contaminations clearly illustrate the advantages of the biphasic setup.
The self-assembly of the molecules trimesic acid (TMA) and 1,3,5-tris(4-carboxphenyl) benzene (BTB) on HOPG at the solid-liquid interface was investigated using STM. The effect of the solvent on bias-induced conformational switching of supramolecular structures of these molecules was studied. According to literature, TMA and BTB dissolved in nonanoic acid (NA) showed bias-induced switching between supramolecular structures. TMA in the 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) solvent was not soluble enough to show self-assembly. TMA in the nonpolar n-octylbenzene (OB) solvent showed two porous networks (the ‘chickenwire’ structure and the ‘flower’ structure) and BTB in OB also showed two porous networks (the ‘chickenwire’ structure and the ‘oblique’ structure), but both showed no bias-induced switching. It was concluded that bias-induced switching does depend on the solvent. Moreover, the coexistence of the ‘chickenwire’ structure and the ‘flower’ structure was observed for TMA in OB, which was not reported yet.
Diffusion coefficients in an aquitard material were measured by conducting miscible solute transport experiments through a specially constructed macropore column. Stainless steel HPLC columns were prepared in a manner that created an annular region of repacked aquitard material and a central core of medium-grained quartz sand. The column transport approach minimizes volatilization and sorption losses that can be problematic when measuring hydrophobic organic chemical diffusion with diffusion-cell methods or column-sectioning techniques. In the transport experiments, solutes (tritiated water, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, and tetrachloroethene) were transported through the central core by convection and hydrodynamic dispersion and through the low-permeability annulus by radial diffusion. All transport parameters were independently measured except for the effective diffusion coefficient in the aquitard material, which was obtained by model fitting. Batch-determined retardation factors agreed very closely with mom...
The synthesis of novel ruthenium(II) meso-tetra-(benzo-15-crown-5)-porphyrinates, meso-[(B15C5)4Por]Ru(CO)(MeOH) (1) and meso-[(B15C5)4Por]Ru(L)2 (2)-(4) (meso-[(B15C5)4Por]2-= 5,10,15,20-tetrakis-(benzo-15-crown-5)-porphyrinato-dianion; L = pyridine (py), pyrazine (pyz), 4,4′-bipyridyl (4,4′-bpy)), where CO and MeOH, or two N-donor ligands are axially coordinated to the central metal, are reported. The metalation of the free ligand performed by the reaction of Ru3(CO)12 with meso-[(B15C5)4Por]H2 in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB, bp = 215°C), gives (1) in a high yield. The synthesis of (2)-(4) involves the decarbonylation of (1) with trimethylamine N-oxide ((CH3)3NO) in the presence of an excess of the N-donor ligand. The coordination of the axially bonded ligands is evidenced by different spectroscopic data.
ABSTRACT Dehalobacter sp. strain TeCB1 was isolated from groundwater contaminated with a mixture of organohalides and is able to respire 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. Here, we report its 3.13-Mb draft genome sequence.
Four photocolorimetric methods have been comparatively studied for determining soluble silicon in freshwater. Meanwhile,the effects of glass containers on the determination and the interference of the phosphate ion on chromogenesis were also investigated. It was demonstrated that 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene amino phenol sulfonic acid reduction-silicon molybdenum blue method is highly sensitive and accurate for the determination of soluble silicon in fresh water,and has an optimal concentration range from 0. 05-20 mg / L. Ascorbic acid reduction-silicon molybdenum blue method and metol reduction-silicon molybdenum blue method are highly sensitive but less accurate; silicon molybdenum yellow method is simple in operation but with low sensitivity. Glass containers used do not influence the determination by the four methods,and the interference of phosphate ion could be eliminated.
The effects of m- and o-dichlorobenzenes (DCBs), 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) and their methylsulfonyl metabolites on the activities of hepatic microsomal reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH)-cytochrome c reductase, reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH)-cytochrome b5 reductase and uridine diphosphate (UDP)-glucuronyltransferase (UDPGT) were studied. The treatment of rats with m-DCB, 1,2,4-TCB, 2,4-, 3,5- or 3,4-dichlorophenyl methyl sulfone (DCPSO2Me) or 2,4,5-trichlorophenyl methyl sulfone (TCPSO2Me) significantly increased NADPH-cytochrome c reductase activity, but o-DCB had no effect on this enzyme activity. All three chlorinated benzenes slightly reduced NADH-cytochrome b5 reductase activity, whereas the methylsulfonyl compounds elicited no change in the enzyme activity. Treatments with m- and o-DCBs, 1,2,4-TCB and 2,4,5-TCPSO2Me enhanced UDPGT activities toward both chloramphenicol (CP) and p-nitrophenol (NP). 2,4-, 3,5- and 3,4-DCPSO2Mes increased the activity of UDPGT toward CP but not toward p-NP. These findings concerning the effects of 2,4-, 3,5- and 3,4-DCPSO2Mes on the activities of NADPH-cytochrome c reductase and UDPGT support our hypothesis that the methylsulfonyl metabolites derived from m- and o-DCBs are phenobarbital-type inducers of the hepatic microsomal drug-metabolizing enzymes. It is concluded that the methyl sulfone derivatives of m- and o-DCBs and 1,2,4-TCB are inducers of phase I reactions in hepatic microsomal drug metabolism, and they have increasing effects on the phase II enzyme activities, such as UDPGT. Thus, the methyl sulfones seem to play an important role in the inducing effects of their parent compounds, m- and o-DCBs and 1,2,4-TCB, on the drug-metabolizing enzyme systems.
The bacterium, Burkholderia (previously Pseudomonas) sp. strain PS12, reported earlier to degrade 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene is shown here to utilize also 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene (Cl4-benzene) as a growth substrate. To investigate the possibility that this organism attacks Cl4-benzene with a chlorobenzene dioxygenase which concomitantly causes dehalogenation, and to analyze the substrate range of the initial enzyme, a 5503-bp DNA fragment from PS12, exhibiting high similarity to genes coding for class IIB dioxygenases, was cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli. The sequence includes the tec genes coding for the alpha-subunit and beta-subunit of a terminal dioxygenase, a ferredoxin and a reductase. E. coli cells producing these proteins were able to dioxygenolytically attack a range of aromatic compounds including chlorinated benzenes and toluene, and also dinuclear aromatics such as biphenyl and dibenzo-p-dioxin. The enzyme was shown by (18)O2 incorporation experiments to dioxygenolytically attack a chlorosubstituted carbon atom of Cl4-benzene, thereby forming an unstable diol intermediate which spontaneously rearomatizes with concomitant chloride elimination to the corresponding 3,4,6-trichlorocatechol (Cl3-catechol).
Metal-promoted NaBH4 and NaBH2(OCH2CH2OCH3)2 dechlorinations were carried out on the aromatic chloro compounds pentachlorophenol and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. The best results were obtained by dropwise addition of NiCl2 in solution to NaBH2(OCH2CH2OCH3)2 and the substrate in THF solutions.
Subsurface contamination by nonaqueous phase liquids, such as 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, is a widespread problem at numerous sites. In this work, the behaviour of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene in the saturated zone was investigated using two natural porous media. To this end, cylindrical columns were packed with different materials and the initial water saturation was displaced by loading a constant level of trichlorobenzene on top of the porous bed. The experiments were carried out with different configurations to simulate natural media with several stratigraphic units. Also, the effect of pressure gradient on nonaqueous phase liquid flow was investigated. Both the pressure gradient and the configuration of the layers of porous media have shown a strong effect on water recoveries and fluxes through the column.
The 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene-degrading Burkholderia sp. strain PS12 was reported to mineralize not only a variety of chlorosubstituted benzenes, but also 4-chloro-and some dichlorotoluenes (21). However, 2-and 3-chlorotoluene are not growth substrates. As chlorobenzenes were reported to be subject to an initial dioxygenation by chlorobenzene dioxygenase, a pathway similar to that reported by Haigler and Spain (12) can be assumed for 4-chlorotoluene metabolism by Burkholderia sp. strain PS12. However, the reason why this strain cannot use 2-and 3-chlorotoluene as growth substrates is not evident. In the present study, we analyzed the metabolism of 2-chloro-and 3-chlorotoluene by PS12 and P. putida F1, a strain which degrades toluene by a dioxygenolytic pathway (8), to determine why a dioxygenolytic pathway cannot deal with these compounds.
With the view to creating novel sandwich-type tetrapyrrole rare earth complexes toward potential applications in material science and chiral catalysis, two new optically active mixed (phthalocyaninato)(porphyrinato) rare earth triple-decker complexes with both (R)- and (S)-enantiomers [M(2)(Pc)(2)(TCBP)] {TCBP = Meso-tetrakis [3,4-(11,12:13,14-di(1',2'-naphtho)-1,4,7,10,15,18-hexaoxacycloeicosa-2,11,13-triene)-phenyl] porphyrinate; M = Eu (1), Y (2)} have been designed and prepared by treating optically active metal free porphyrin (R)-/(S)-H(2)TCBP with M(Pc)(2) in the presence of corresponding M(acac)(3)·nH(2)O (acac = acetylacetonate) in refluxing 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB). These novel mixed ring rare earth triple-decker compounds were characterized by a wide range of spectroscopic methods including MS, (1)H NMR, IR, electronic absorption, and magnetic circular-dichroism (MCD) spectroscopic measurements in addition to elemental analysis. Perfect mirror image relationship was observed in the Soret and Q absorption regions in the circular-dichroism (CD) spectra of the (R)- and (S)-enantiomers, indicating the optically active nature of these two mixed (phthalocyaninato)(porphyrinato) rare earth triple-decker complexes. This result reveals the effective chiral information transfer from the peripheral chiral binaphthyl units to the porphyrin and phthalocyanine chromophores in the triple-decker molecule because of the intense π-π interaction between porphyrin and phthalocyanine rings. In addition, their electrochemical properties have also been investigated by cyclic voltammetry (CV).
The hypothesis of constancy of the tissue residues in animals succumbed to narcotic organic chemicals is tested by determining the effect of body length, time, and ambient concentration on tissue concentration in Daphnia magma narcotized by exposure to toxic levels of nine 14 C-labeled, narcotic organic compounds: acetone, acetophenone, benzene, butanol, 1,2-dichlorobenzene, 2-methylnaphthalene, 1,1,2,2-tetrachloroethane, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, and toluene. The average tissue concentration of immobilized D. magma was 3.1 mmol/kg (95% confidence limits =1,1-5,1 mmol/μg), but ranged from 0.15 mmol/μg for 2-methylnaphthalene to 200 mmol/kg for butanol
Article commenting on the 'solubility of buckminsterfullerene in tetrahydrofuran, thiophene, tetrahydrothiophene, 1,2-dichlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and n-butylamine.'
In this work, we report on the discovery of naturally occurring fullerenes (C60 to C400) in the Allende and Murchison meteorites and some sediment samples from the 65 million-year-old Cretaceous/Tertiary boundary layer (KTB). Unlike the other pure forms of carbon (diamond and graphite), fullerenes are extractable in an organic solvent (e.g., toluene or 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene). The recognition of this unique property led to the detection and isolation of the higher fullerenes in the Kratschmer/Huffmann arc evaporated graphite soot and in the carbon material in the meteorite and impact deposits. By further exploiting the unique ability of the fullerene cage structure to encapsulate and retain noble gases, we have determined that both the Allende and Murchison fullerenes and the KTB fullerenes contain trapped noble gases with ratios that can only be described as extraterrestrial in origin.
The rearrangement of a mixture of Ph13CH2OPh and PhCH218OPh (with some unlabelled ether) catalysed by AlBr3 in homogeneous solution in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and in nitrobenzene has been examined. The literature report of this reaction was shown to be substantially correct: the reaction is very rapid, and ortho-migration of the benzyl group predominates, but does not (in contrast to the earlier report) occur exclusively. The ortho : para ratio of the rearrangement products is ca. 11 in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and ca. 4.7 in nitrobenzene. The ether undergoes rearrangement in both solvents without prior scrambling of isotopic labels. In trichlorobenzene, the reaction appears to be almost completely intramolecular, even for para-rearrangement: o-benzylphenol is unscrambled, the para-isomer almost so. In nitrobenzene, o-benzylphenol is virtually unscrambled, the para-isomer ca. 25% so. A mechanism involving a tight ion-pair (from which some leakage occurs in nitrobenzene) is proposed, and possible explanations of the high ortho : para ratios are considered.
Synthesis and kinetics of dichloro-methoxybenzenes were studied from 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and sodium methoxide in a temperature range of 353–383 K. Effects of molar ratio of reactants, solvent and reaction temperature were investigated. Reaction products include three isomers. The order of selectivity for the three isomers was 1,4-dichloro-2-methoxybenzene>>2,4-dichloro-1-methoxybenzene>1,2-dichloro-4-methoxybenzene. Kinetic equations for the parallel liquid-solid interface reaction between 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and sodium methoxide were established in the absence of catalyst. Kinetic parameters such as the pre-exponential factors and the activation energy were determined with the Arrhenius equation.
In Gram-negative bacteria, quorum sensing systems are based on the N-acyl-homoserine lactone (AHL) molecule. The objective of this study was to investigate the role of quorum sensing systems during biofilm formation by a microbial community while degrading the pollutant. Our model system included 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) and its mineralizing Gram-negative bacterial community to investigate the relationships between AHL dynamics, cell growth and pollutant degradation. Biomineralization of 1,2,4-TCB was monitored for both the planktonic bacterial community with and without sterile clay particles in liquid cultures. The bacterial growth and production of AHLs were quantified by fluorescent in situ hybridization and immunoassay analysis, respectively. A rapid production of AHLs which occurred coincided with the biofilm formation and the increase of mineralization rate of 1,2,4-TCB in liquid cultures. There is a positive correlation between the cell density of Bodertella on the clay particles and mineralization rate of 1,2,4-TCB. 3-oxo-C12:1-HSL appears to be the dominant AHL with the highest intensity and rapidly degraded by the bacterial community via two main consecutive reactions (lactone hydrolysis and decarboxylic reaction). These findings suggest that the integrated AHLs and their degraded products play a crucial role in biofilm formation and biomineralization of 1,2,4-TCB in culture.
The effect and persistence of six organic xenobiotics was tested under sulfate-, iron-, and nitrate-reducing conditions in primary sewage sludge suspensions. The xenobiotics tested were acenaphthene, phenanthrene, di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate (DEHP), 4-nonylphenol (4-NP), linear alkylbenzene sulfonate (LAS), and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) added to initial analytical concentrations of 54-117 mgL(-1). The suspensions were incubated at 30 degrees C for 15 weeks and rates of sulfate, iron, and nitrate reduction were estimated from the time course of hydrogen sulfide accumulation, Fe(II) accumulation, and nitrate depletion, respectively. Chemical analysis showed that the xenobiotics were persistent under the different electron acceptor regimes for the duration of the experiment. This was partly attributed to low bioavailability and microbial toxicity of the xenobiotics. Rates of anaerobic respiration in control suspensions (without added xenobiotics) showed a weekly reduction potential of 0.84 mM SO(4)(2-), 0.92 mM Fe(III), and 9.25 mM NO(3)(-). All three processes were completely inhibited by 1,2,4-TCB (54 mgL(-1)) whereas there was no significant (P<0.05) toxicity of phenanthrene (109 mgL(-1)) and DEHP (105 mgL(-1)). Sulfate reduction was inhibited completely by LAS (105 mgL(-1)), 76% by acenaphthene (54 mgL(-1)) and 57% by 4-NP (117 mgL(-1)), and likewise iron reduction was inhibited 62% by LAS and 55% by 4-NP (the latter though at P<0.10). Nitrate reduction was not significantly inhibited by acenaphthene and 4-NP and furthermore was resistant to LAS toxicity (105 mgL(-1)). Nitrate reduction also had the highest potential for mineralization of organic matter and thus was the most robust of the tested anaerobic processes in the sewage sludge suspensions.
Abstract A series of Ru/Nb 2 O 5 catalysts with Ru loadings from 0.5–7.18 wt.% were prepared and characterized by X-ray diffraction (XRD), temperature programmed reduction (TPR), temperature programmed desorption (TPD) of hydrogen and CO chemisorption measurements. XRD patterns reveal the presence of RuO 2 from 3.0 wt.% Ru loading. TPR profiles show only one peak due to reduction of RuO 2 to Ru 0 . The H 2 -TPD exhibits two peaks, one due to desorption of hydrogen from Ru metal and another due to spill over from metal to the support. The catalytic properties were evaluated for the vapor-phase hydrodechlorination of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and related to Ru dispersion.
In this work, we report on the discovery of naturally occurring fullerenes (C 60 to C400) in the Allende and Murchison meteorites and some sediment samples from the 65 million-year-old Cretaceous͞Tertiary boundary layer (KTB). Unlike the other pure forms of carbon (diamond and graphite), fullerenes are extractable in an organic solvent (e.g., toluene or 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene). The recognition of this unique property led to the detection and isolation of the higher fullerenes in the Kratschmer͞Huffmann arc evaporated graphite soot and in the carbon material in the meteorite and impact deposits. By further exploiting the unique ability of the fullerene cage structure to encapsulate and retain noble gases, we have determined that both the Allende and Murchison fullerenes and the KTB fullerenes contain trapped noble gases with ratios that can only be described as extraterrestrial in origin.
Abstract Experimental results on the solvent sublation of four hydrophobic compounds [pentachlorophenol (PCP), 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB), 2,3,6-trichloroanisole (TCA), and 2,4,6-trichlorophenol (TCP)] from the aqueous phase tc organic solvents are reported. The experiments were conducted with the aqueous and air phases in continuous countercurrent modes and the organic solvent as a stagnant layer. TCB, TCA, and TCP were sublated into mineral oil. PCP at pH 2.9 as neutral molecules were sublated into mineral oil and decyl alcohol while ionic PCP at pH 8.9 were sublated as a complex with hexadecyltrimethyl ammonium bromide into decyl alcohol. The effect of the two organic solvents were compared for neutral PCP sublation from the aqueous phase. The effects of air flow rates, influent feed rates, and the volume of organic solvent were studied. Comparisons were made between the bubble fractionation and solvent sublation of neutral PCP and TCP into mineral oil. The efficiency of sublation was largest for TCB...
Several commercial samples of linear polyethylene were fractionated by gel permeation chromatorgraphy (GPC); they had four columns of maximum nominal capacity of 107 A. The molecular weight distribution thus obtained revealed delicate variations: none of the results could be perfectly represented by a log-normal distribution. With selected samples the performances were compared among four GPC units, all having four columns. With columns of similar capacity satisfactory reproducibility could be achieved from different units, if sufficient care were taken in calibration and operation. The results with the two-column unit were significantly different from those with the four-column units. The difference in concentration of sample solutions appeared to be a part of the cause. The different elution times of two columns and four columns seemed also to have contributed. Among the four-column units slightly variant results were obtained in the high molecular weight tail, when the maximum capacity of the column was different. Two solvents, o-dichlorobenzene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, were used for this work. Solvent effects were found in neither GPC nor dilute-solution viscosity.
A novel dynamic fugacity-based model is described, developed, and tested that simulates the uptake of narcotic organic chemicals in fish from water as occurs in aquatic bioconcentration and toxicity tests. The physiologically based toxicokinetic model treats the time course of chemical distribution in 4 compartments (tissue groups) in the fish, including the liver, in which biotransformation may occur. In addition to calculating bioconcentration and toxicokinetics, 5 possible toxic endpoints are defined corresponding to chemical concentration, fugacity, or activity reaching a critical value that causes 50% mortality. The mathematical description of multicompartment uptake is simplified by expressing the equations in the fugacity format. The model is parameterized and tested against reported empirical data for the bioconcentration of pentachloroethane in rainbow trout and for uptake and mortality from aquatic exposures to naphthalene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene in fathead minnows. Model performance is evaluated, and it is concluded that with suitable parameterization it has potential for application for assessment of both bioconcentration and toxicity expressed as median lethal concentrations, critical body residues, and chemical activity as a function of time to death.
In this study, nanoscale Pd-Fe particles, with diameters less than 100 nm, were synthesized and dispersed over the chitosan and silica supports. Three different Pd-Fe particles were synthesized, namely 0.1% Pd-Fe, 0.5% Pd-Fe and 1.0% Pd-Fe. SEM images confirmed that the Pd-Fe particles were dispersed over the surface of the supports while SEM-EDX confirmed evenly distribution of Pd over Fe(zero-valent). alpha-Fe(zero-valent) crystallites were identified by means of XRD and observed in TEM. Reductive dechlorinations of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) with the nanoscale Pd-Fe/chitosan and Pd-Fe/silica were carried out in the batch experiment system. Disappearance of the parent species and formation of the reaction intermediates and end product were monitored at discrete times. The results show that the nano-scale Pd-Fe particles were able to completely dechlorinate the chlorinated benzenes within a very short timescale. Complete dechlorinations of 1,2,4-TCB to benzene were achieved within 60 min with the 1.0% Pd-Fe/chitosan and within 100 min with the 1.0% Pd-Fe/silica. Reaction rates were observed to increase with increasing Pd content of the Pd-Fe/support. The reactions apparently followed pseudo-first-order kinetics with respect to the 1,2,4-TCB transformation. A kinetic model is constructed to fit the experimental results for the reactions, enabling identification of the major and minor dechlorination pathways of 1,2,4-TCB. The model suggests that the 1,2,4-TCB transformation mainly followed the primary pathway of direct reductive dechlorination to benzene and secondary pathway of sequential hydrogenolysis to 1,2-dichlorobenzene (1,2-DCB) and then chlorobenzene (CB) or benzene.
A chlorinated benzene dechlorinating anaerobic microbial consortium was obtained by selective enrichment with hexachlorobenzene (HCB) and lactate from a freshwater sediment sample that originated from an area with proven in situ HCB dechlorination. The consortium was used to determine compound selectivity and relative dechlorination rates by incubation with the individual chlorinated benzenes under methanogenic conditions. The dechlorinating activity was restricted to benzenes with at least three adjacent chlorines, except for a relative slow transformation of 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene to 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. Optimal temperature for dechlorination was around 30 o C, significant dechlorinating activity was still observed at a temperature of 3 o C
The unusual tolerance of Pseudomonas putida DOT-T1E to toluene is based on the extrusion of this solvent by constitutive and inducible efflux pumps and rigidification of its membranes via phospholipid alterations. Pseudomonas putida DOT-T1E-109 is a solvent-sensitive mutant. Mutant cells were less efficient in solvent extrusion than the wild-type cells, as shown by the limited efflux of 14C-1,2,4-trichlorobenzene from the cell membranes, despite the fact that the efflux pumps are overexpressed as a result of increased expression of the ttgDEF and ttgGHI efflux pump operons. This limitation could be the result of alterations in the outer membrane because the mutant cells released more beta-lactamase to the external medium than the wild-type cells. The mutant P. putida DOT-T1E-109 showed negligible synthesis of fatty acids in the presence of sublethal concentrations of toluene as revealed by analysis of 13CH3-13COOH incorporation into fatty acids. In contrast, the mutant strain in the absence of solvents, and the wild-type strain, both in the presence and in the absence of toluene, incorporated 13CH3-13COOH at a high rate into de novo synthesized lipids. The mutation in P. putida DOT-T1E-109 increases sensitivity to the solvent because of a limited efflux of the solvent from the cell membranes with the concomitant inhibition of fatty acid biosynthesis.
Abstract In this study, we have assessed apoptotic effect of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, hexachlorobenzene, lindane and dieldrin on human peripheral blood lymphocytes. We observed an increase in ROS formation and a decrease in mitochondrial transmembrane potential in the cells incubated with low concentrations of all compounds studied, in particular lindane and dieldrin. ROS formation and changes in mitochondrial transmembrane potential may have influenced caspase-3 activation, a crucial enzyme in the apoptotic process. Moreover, chlorobenzenes, and in particular lindane and dieldrin changed cells’ membrane permeability and induced phosphatidylserine translocation, which confirmed that they are capable of inducing apoptosis in human lymphocytes. Apoptotic changes in human lymphocytes provoked by biologically relevant concentrations of these substances suggest that they may disturb function of immunological system especially among people occupationally exposed to their action.
Abstract A polychlorinated biphenyl mixture, Aroclor 1254, two commercial grade insecticides, mirex and kepone, and a pesticide breakdown product, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene were evaluated for mutagenicity and hepatic enzyme induction potential in the Salmonella/microsomal assay. None was found to revert strains TA1535, TA1537, TA98 or TA100 when tested with or without metabolic activation. Liver microsomal extracts (S9) from rats induced with 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene were shown to differ from S9 of either control or Aroclor 1254-induced rats in the capacity to activate 2-aminoanthracene mutagenesis.
Abstract 1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene at 90°C proved to be a universal solvent for the common organic components of PVC compounds except crosslinked impact modifiers. Size exclusion chromatography was carried out with 8 different components, with a PVC-U compound and plate out formed during its extrusion using both RI and IR detection. In the RI detector PVC shows a very low detector response. It is therefore possible to analyze the whole organic fraction of the compound without prior precipitation of PVC. Using RI/IR double detection, an “one shot” analysis of the PVC matrix and of all the soluble additives can be accomplished.
The umu -test which can detect the induction of DNA repair is applied in order to analyze the genotoxicity of by-products of chlorination and ozonation. In this research work, the genotoxicities of 37 comnercial chemicals which are expected to be involved in the by-products of chlorination and ozonation processes are checked and evaluated by the umu -test. The genotoxicities of the following organic halogenated compounds are clearly detected: Without microsomal activation; m -dichlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and bromoform: With microsomal activation; m -dichlorobenzene, dichloroacetic acid, trichloroacetic acid and chloral are detected. From the results on some compounds which are expected to be produced by ozonation, formaldehyde and ionone show positive genotoxicities without microsomal activation, and 5 compounds have positive genotoxicities with microsomal activation; formaldehyde, furfrol, carvone, glyoxal and acrolein. The effects of the concentration on genotoxicities of those chemicals are discussed and compared with the results obtained in other bacterial assays. Some of the selected organic compounds, chloroform and so on, are identified positive genotoxic, which were reported not to be mutagenic in other bacterial assays. As the Quantitative evaluation for genotoxicity on chemical dose, the time of DNA repairing on damaged spots by SOS genes and the induction rate of umu gene are experimentally evaluated.
Chlorinated aromatics, nitroaromatics, and azoaromatics are widely used in industry. As a result, these compounds are commonly present in industrial wastewater. Aerobic biological treatment processes are often inefficient for wastewaters containing these organic pollutants because most of these aromatic compounds are resistant to aerobic degradation. The goal of this research is to investigate the feasibility of elemental iron to pretreat wastewater through reduction of the azo and nitro functions, thus making these compounds more biodegradable prior to entering biological treatment processes, such as activated sludge. ::: ::: The experimental approach involved a series of batch reduction experiments to test the treatability, via chemical reduction, of a suite of compounds (nitrobenzene, 2,4-dinitrotoluene, orange G, orange II, orange IV, orange I, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, and pentachlorophenol) as well as the effects that various synthetic wastewater components would have on reduction rates. Once reduction products were identified in the batch reduction experiments, they were tested for their aerobic biodegradability through batch biodegradation and respirometric studies. A set of column experiments to examine iron life span were the final precursor to design and operation of a bench-scale integrated iron column-activated sludge treatment system for azo dyes. ::: ::: Results from batch reduction experiments indicate that azo dyes and nitroaromatics are rapidly transformed to their reduced counterparts. In all cases, the pretreatment of recalcitrant compounds via reduction with elemental iron enhanced their aerobic biodegradability ::: ::: This title belongs to WERF Research Report Series ::: ::: ISBN: 9781843396765 (eBook)
An experimentally practical and precise flocculation-based method was developed, tested, and applied to determine phenanthrene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene sorption with NIST SRM 2975 diesel particulate matter. Following an initial equilibration period, polyaluminum chloride (PACI) solution was added to the sorption tubes in order to facilitate the formation of flocculated aggregates of soot particles. After separation of the solids through centrifugation, supernatant concentrations were determined as with conventional batch methods. The flocculation-based method was tested on three kinds of soot and then used to evaluate sorption kinetics and equilibrium with SRM 2975. Kinetic results showed that wetting of the soot required more than 20 days, but that 60 days was sufficient to achieve equilibration with both water and phenanthrene. Sixty-day isotherms for both phenanthrene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene were strongly nonlinear. At approximate 10(-3) of solubility, carbon-normalized distribution coefficients (Koc) were 10-20 times higher than those for absorption to sediment organic matter. Measurements at closer to solubility indicated much lower Koc, suggesting a total sorption capacity at aqueous solubility that is of similar magnitude to that in sediment organic matter. Independent analysis of extractable hydrocarbons suggests that absorption into a native hydrocarbon phase was not a major component of sorption.
Attempts were made to prepare sodium and potassium thin section standards for analytical electron microscopy by introducing, in serial concentrations, a complex between the appropriate salt and macrocyclic polyether ([15] crown-5 for sodium and [18] crown-6 for potassium) into epoxy resin. Of the tested salts, sodium tetraphenylborate, tetrafluoroborate and cyanide failed to produce homogeneous standards, and those standards containing sodium or potassium iodide or bromide were analytically inhomogeneous at concentrations greater than 20 meq 1−1. Only sodium thiocyanate and potassium cyanide standards were analytically homogeneous at concentrations up to 600 meq 1−1. A chlorine standard, which was analytically homogeneous at concentrations up to 1000 meq 1−1, was prepared by incorporating 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene into an epoxy resin.
Effects and kinetics of photocatalytic degradation of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene with composite photocatalysts of TiO2 coated on carbon nanotubes and nano-TiO2 photocatalysts were studied,respectively.It was found that the composite photocatalysts was better than the nano-TiO2 for photocatalytic degradation of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene.After 60 min UV irradiation at 254 nm,there was 70% of the initial 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene degraded with the composite photocatalyst while only 51% of the initial 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene degraded with the nano-TiO2.Results of photocatalytic degradation kinetics also proved that the 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene degradation rate constant with the composite photocatalyst was 0.019 6 h-1,which was increased by 63.3% compared to that with nano-TiO2.According to molecular structure theory,analysis of dissociation energy of C—Cl bond of chlorobenzenes predicated that main pathway of photocatalytic degradation of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene followed that its ortho-Cl could be took off first to form 1,4-dichlorobenzene,and it might be further dechlorized and finally be mineralized.The first step of photodechlorination for 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene was also experimentally confirmed through identified 1,4-dichlorobenzene as its product.
Our aims were to investigate the effect of ED compounds ((PU, MU, and DU) and dClB and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene + hexachlorobenzene (chlorobenzene mixture, mClB)) on the basal release of the ACTH involved in the functioning of the adenohypophyseal-adrenocortical axis. This work focused on hormone secretion in the presence of EDC in two cell types: normal adenohypophysis (AdH) cells and prolactinoma (PRLOMA) cells. In this regard, the question was, Can EDC modify the feedback mechanism of ACTH release governed by arginine vasopressin (AVP) and corticosterone (B) ("AND" cycles)? Observing EDC effects on PRL hormone secretion was also a goal in this research ("OR" cycle).
Understanding and controlling the structural polymorphism in self-assembled networks of functional molecules merit special attention. In this contribution, we describe the concentration controlled structural evolution in self-assembled monolayers of a large triangular discotic macrocycle at the liquid-solid interface. Scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) reveals that the adlayers formed by an alkoxy substituted cyclo-tris(7,9-triphenylenylene) macrocycle exhibit concentration dependent 2D phase behavior at the 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene/HOPG interface. The self-assembled network evolves from high-density linear packing which is formed at relatively high concentrations to a low-density porous pattern at lower concentrations. A trimeric hexagonal phase exists at intermediate concentrations examined. The transformation of the trimeric hexagonal phase to the linear phase could be monitored by recording time-dependent STM images. The self-assembly behavior is affected significantly by the choice of the organic solvent where an amorphous network is formed along with high-density linear packing at the 1-phenyloctane/HOPG interface. The results presented here provide detailed insight into the polymorphism phenomenon exhibited by an organic semiconductor and furnish general guidelines to control the morphology of thin films of such technologically important materials.
Abstract Toxicokinetic studies with 1,2,3 and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and a mixture of the two were performed on early life stages of Salmo gairdneri . Results are discussed taking into account physico-chemical properties (log P) in order to predict theoretical BCFs for early life stages of fish.
Unlike several other practical heterogeneous catalysts, zeolites are highly crystalline and well characterized materials. The surfaces amenable for the approach of molecules, the catalytic active sites for adsorption and the space available for their reaction are well-defined. The above facts have led to the development of zeolites as the breeding ground for molecular modelling methods. In turn, the molecular modelling methods have played a crucial role in improving our understanding of several facets of zeolite catalysis, thus establishing a symbiotic relation. In this work, we bring out the application of molecular modelling methods to understand, interpret and to some extent predict the properties of zeolite based environment-friendly catalysts. The studies applied to design zeolite catalysts which are prospective candidates to replace environmentally hostile catalyst materials such as mineral acids, chlorides of aluminum, zirconium, iron etc. are presented. Two typical cases, where modelling has been carried out on zeolite catalysts in order to understand the mechanism of complex organic transformations, are described. In case I, the yields in the conversion of several spirolactones to enones were rationalized and the role of shape-selectivity in controlling the yield are brought out. In case II, the distribution of Na and RE in zeolite-Y and their consequence on the yield of S-N acetals are understood. Further, the adsorption and diffusion characteristics of alkylaromatics in various zeolites are studied by force-field based energy minimization calculations. These studies have brought out the power of molecular modelling methods for i) the initial screening of zeolite catalysts in shape selective reactions, ii) to identify the energetically favorable and unfavorable locations for the molecules insides the pores of zeolites and iII) to deduce the energy barriers for the diffusion of the molecules. The energetically favorable locations of 1,2-dichlorobenzene, its electronic interaction with C12 and promoter inside zeolite K-L are studied. The results are useful to understand the mechanism of selective formation of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. Additionally, the attempts based on molecular modelling studies towards the design of zeolite catalysts for pollution control such as deNOx and removal of chloroflurohydrocarbons by adsorption over zeolites are described. The mode of activation of CH4 and H2O over Ga-ZSM-5 are brought out. The influence of the extra framework cations on the adsorption of CF2C12 on CsNaY is revealed. Overall molecular modelling studies throw light on the underlying chemical forces — their nature and magnitude, which control the behavior of the reacting molecules inside the zeolite pores.
Incorporation of two biphenylene-bridged 4,4′-bipyridinium extended viologen units into a para-phenylene-based cyclophane results in a synthetic receptor that is ∼2 nm long and adopts a box-like geometry. This cyclophane, Ex2Box4+, possesses the ability to form binary and ternary complexes with a myriad of guest molecules ranging from long π-electron-rich polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, such as tetracene, tetraphene, and chrysene, to π-electron-poor 2,6-dinitrotoluene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, and both the 9,10- and 1,4-anthraquinone molecules. Moreover, Ex2Box4+ is capable of forming one-to-one complexes with polyether macrocycles that consist of two π-electron-rich dioxynaphthalene units, namely, 1,5-dinaphtho[38]crown-10. This type of broad molecular recognition is possible because the electronic constitution of Ex2Box4+ is such that the pyridinium rings located at the “ends” of the cyclophane are electron-poor and prefer to enter into donor–acceptor interactions with π-electron-rich guests, while the...
Abstract Monodispersed carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC)-stabilized Fe–Cu bimetal nanoparticles with an average diameter of less than 20 nm were successfully synthesized by a modified water-based approach. The as-resulting particles exhibit a core–shell structure and are quite uniform in size and shape. Batch experiments demonstrated that these nanoparticles could effectively dechlorinate 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB). Near 90% of reduction efficiency was achieved by CMC-stabilized Fe–Cu for 24 h treatment. By monitoring the reaction products with time by GC-MS, it was found that 1,2,4-TCB transformation mainly followed the sequential hydrogenolysis to 1,2-dichlorobenzene (12DCB), then chlorobenzene (CB) and eventually benzene. The pseudo first order 1,2,4-TCB degradation rate were 0.09 h −1 and 0.06 h −1 as CMC-to-Fe molar ratios were 0.00248 and 0.00124, respectively. Dechlorination mechanism was also proposed in this study.
Liquid−liquid equilibrium results for mixtures of furfural + a chlorinated aromatic compound + an alkane at T = 298.15 K are reported, where a chlorinated aromatic compound refers to chlorobenzene, 1,2-dichlorobenzene, 1,3-dichlorobenzene, or 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and an alkane refers to n-hexane, n-dodecane, or n-hexadecane. The compositions of the conjugated phases were correlated with the UNIQUAC equation and the NRTL equation.
The reaction of elemental sulfur with poly(vinyl chloride) is studied in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and without any solvent under various conditions. Black polymers containing 3.77–57.64% chemically bonded sulfur and, according to IR spectroscopy, including >C=C C=S groups in macromolecules are obtained. It is shown that the diffraction curves of poly(vinyl chloride) and of the reaction product containing 7.82% almost coincide but that the thermal stability of the latter is considerably higher than that of the initial polymer. The prospects of the practical use of the products of the reaction of poly(vinyl chloride) with elemental sulfur are demonstrated.
Infrared sensor, based on attenuated total reflection phenomenon, for the detection of chlorinated hydrocarbons (CHCs) represents a big advantage compared to chromatographic and mass spectroscopic techniques since it is a one step detector. Pre-concentration and separation take place in the polymer film with simultaneous identification of pollutants by the infrared beam. The analysis is rapid, sample does not require any initial preparation, and can be easily performed in the field. The main default of the latest version of the sensor was a low sensibility (above 1 ppm) compared to the threshold levels of the contaminants. In the present work, it is documented that the response dynamics of the optical sensor and its sensitivity depend strongly on the diffusion of pollutants through a boundary layer formed between polymer film and the monitored solution and in the polymer film. The reduction of thickness of the boundary layer through a controlled high flow rate, and the optimization of thickness (volume) of polymer films result in a tremendous improvement of the response dynamics. It is demonstrated that the sensor can detect simultaneously six CHCs: monochlorobenzene, 1,2-dichlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, chloroform, trichloroethylene, and perchloroethylene in their mixture with a sensitivity as low as a few ppb. This level of detection opens up numerous applications for the optical sensor.
The capacity of the β-Proteobacterium Pseudomonas sp. strain P51, which degrades chlorinated benzenes, to metabolize 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) under environmental conditions was tested by its release into two experimental systems. The first system consisted of laboratory scale microcosms which were operated with and without the addition of TCB and which were inoculated with sludge from a wastewater treatment plant. The second system consisted of a non sterile, water saturated soil column. We determined survival of strain P51 after its introduction and its ability to degrade TCB. The population dynamics was followed by selective plating and applying the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to detect strain P51 and the chlorobenzene ( tcb) genes on catabolic plasmid pP51. The results showed a completely different behaviour of strain P51 in the two habitats under the applied conditions. In the soil column the P51 bacteria inoculated the entire area and their population reached 2 × 106 cells/g soil. The population remained active since TCB was degraded to concentrations below the detection limit of 30 μg/l. In the sludge microcosms, the number of strain P51 cells immediately decreased from 4 × 107 cells/ml to 105 cells/ml over a period of 2 days after inoculation, and then the strain disappeared to levels below our detection limit (103–104 cells/ml). In the reactor without TCB the population of P51 maintained a stable value of 105 cells/ml during 8 days but then also decreased to levels below the detection limit. In addition, no significant TCB degradation was found in the sludge reactors. The influence of presence of TCB on maintenance of strain P51 in the two habitats is discussed. This work demonstrates the possibility to successfully apply preselected strains to degrade otherwise poorly degradable substances in complex mixed microbial communities. However, survival and activity may depend strongly on the type of system into which the strain is introduced.
Stepwise dechlorination of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene was observed at a glassy carbon electrode in dimethylformamide containing 0.1 M tetraethylammonium perchlorate. Especially, dechlorination to dichlorobenzene and further to monochlorobenzene or benzene was successfully demonstrated with a porous reticulated vitreous carbon electrode. Electrochemical dechlorination of polychlorobenzenes employing a flow cell with a reticulated vitreous carbon working electrode is also described. Preliminary experiments with a flow cell showed that dechlorination of trichlorobenzene to dichlorobenzene was partially completed while dechlorination to benzene or monochlorobenzene was not successful, suggesting that a flow rate and electrolysis time should be further optimized for the complete electrolysis.
This article presents the results of studying the reaction of nucleophilic substitution of chlorine in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene in its reaction with potassium heptylate. A one-factor experiment was designed to determine the optimal region of conducting the reaction with a yield of the dichlorophenylheptyl ethers of 53-93% (mol) and established the dependence of the yield of the ethers on the ratio of the reactants, the temperature, and the concentration of the catalyst - 18-crown-6
Abstract Macrobenthic animal communities that colonized sand-filled aquaria were exposed to 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB), a recent replacement for polycholorinated biphenyls in the electrical industry. In one test, communities established by planktonic larvae entrained in continuously supplied unfiltered seawater for 50 days were exposed to waterborne TCB for 6 days; in the second test, the toxicant was added to the sediment before 8 weeks of colonization. Concentrations that affected community structure were usually two orders of magnitude lower for waterborne TCB than for sediment-bound TCB, but the same types of organisms were affected by each route of exposure. The lowest TCB concentrations (measured) that affected average numbers of individuals exposed via the water were 0.04 mg/liter for mollusks, 0.4 mg/liter for arthropods, and 4 mg/liter for annelids. Average number of species was significantly lower than the control at 4 mg/liter. For TCB exposures via the sediment, the lowest concentrations (nominal) that affected average numbers of individuals were 100 μg/g for mollusks and echinoderms, and 1000 μg/g for arthropods and annelids. Average number of species in experimental aquaria was significantly lower than the control at ⩾ 100 μg/g. TCB persisted in sediments, but some leached into water throughout the 8-week exposure via sediment.
Present study was carried out to reduce residual toxicity of BHC insecticides inherent in the organochlorine pesticides. For This end, r-isomer, the most potent insecticidal component among the BHC stereoisomers, was isolated and thus fortified by means of solvent precipitation. In parallel, 3-(2,4,5-trichlorophenyl)-1-methyl urea was prepared in good yield from technical BHC via 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, 1,2,4,-trichloronitrobenzene, and 2,4,5-trichloroaniline. In addition, certain merit of the compound which make it possible to use as a herbicide is discussed. The results are summarized as follows; 1. Recrystallizing technical BHC from methanol-water binary solvent system, r-isomer was enriched to 49.7% at 95% recovery of r-isomer. 2. By partitioning technical BHC in 85% of methanolic solution into chloroform, r-isomer was fortified to 89.6% at 90.5% recovery of r-isomer. 3. Yield of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene from technical BHC was greatly dependent upon concentration of alkalies and to less degree on the alkalies. 4. Surfactants, in particular cationic a quartenary ammonium salt, increased yield of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene from technical BHC by alkaline hydrolysis. 5. Conversion of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene to 2,4,5-trichloronitrobenzene was effected almost quantitatively utilizing nitrating agent at low temperature. 6. Yield of 91.4% was observed for the synthesis of 2,4,5-trichloroaniline by reducing 2,4,5-trichloronitrobenzene in the presence of iron turning and hydrochloric acid. 7. Overall yield based on BHC of 3-(2,4,5-trichlorophenyl)-1- methyl urea was 60.8%. 8. Inhibition effects, both germination and growth, 3-(2,4,5-trichlorophenyl)-1-methyl urea on several crops were found comparable to or more potent than those of . In addition, it was also noted that susceptibility to the prepared compound depended upon the crops as well as specific part (shoots, roots) of the plant exposed to the chemicals.
Mono- and binuclear metal-organic compounds bearing long alkyl chains were synthesized and studied at the liquid/ graphite interface using scanning tunneling microscopy. Two different lamellar surface patterns as well as a star like structure were obtained driven by van der Waals interactions of the alkyl chains and weak hydrogen bonds of the phenoxy moieties. In the case of the star like structure solvent molecules (1,2,4-trichlorobenzene) are supposed to play an important role for the stabilization of the created pattern. Magnetic investigation of the bulk material by a superconducting quantum interference device magnetometer revealed magnetic moments up to 1.7 μ B (NiCo) and most likely antiferromagnetic coupling between the two metals within a single complex. The presented two-dimensional crystallization of the binuclear complexes may provide an easy access to new designable materials in molecular electronics.
In this work, the solubility of N,N-dibenzylhydroxylamine (DBHA) in 17 pure solvents, including methanol, ethanol, n-propanol, n-butanol, acetone, ethyl acetate, dichloromethane, acetonitrile, isopropanol, n-octanol, cyclohexanone, 1,2-dichlorobenzene, toluene, isobutanol, n-pentanol, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, and tetrahydrofuran, was determined by a static gravimetric method with the temperature ranging from 273.15 to 323.35 K under atmospheric pressure. The solubility of DBHA was positively related to temperature in all selected solvents. Besides, the experimental solubility data were correlated with four thermodynamic models, i.e., the modified Apelblat equation, λh equation, nonrandom two-liquid (NRTL) equation, and the Wilson equation. The results indicated that all of the models could give satisfactory results and the NRTL equation provided the best fitting result. Furthermore, the dissolution thermodynamic parameters in the used solvents, including the Gibbs energy (ΔdisG), molar enthalpy (ΔdisH), an...
A high-capacity stationary phase for the separation of fullerenes was prepared by immobilizing 3-[(pentabromobenzyl)oxy]propylsilyl (PBB) groups onto silica surfaces. The stationary phase was developed by a reciprocal approach. This was possible by finding the structure of solvents that provided high solubilities as well as high eluent strength for chromatographic elution of fullerenes. The increased solubility and increased eluent strength for C{sub 60} seen with solvents containing heavy heteroatoms suggested the preferential interaction of C{sub 60} with such solvent molecules. The stationary phases containing sulfur, chlorine, or bromine in fact resulted in longer retention of fullerenes. The PBB silica showed high retentivity with excellent efficiency for fullerenes, permitting the use of solvents providing high solubilities, such as carbon disulfide and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene for gramscale separations with ordinary HPLC equipment. 22 refs., 6 figs., 3 tabs.
Abstract In this study, nanoscale Pd–Fe particles, with diameters less than 100 nm, were synthesized and dispersed over the chitosan and silica supports. Three different Pd–Fe particles were synthesized, namely 0.1% Pd–Fe, 0.5% Pd–Fe and 1.0% Pd–Fe. SEM images confirmed that the Pd–Fe particles were dispersed over the surface of the supports while SEM-EDX confirmed evenly distribution of Pd over Fe 0 . α-Fe 0 crystallites were identified by means of XRD and observed in TEM. Reductive dechlorinations of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) with the nanoscale Pd–Fe/chitosan and Pd–Fe/silica were carried out in the batch experiment system. Disappearance of the parent species and formation of the reaction intermediates and end product were monitored at discrete times. The results show that the nano-scale Pd–Fe particles were able to completely dechlorinate the chlorinated benzenes within a very short timescale. Complete dechlorinations of 1,2,4-TCB to benzene were achieved within 60 min with the 1.0% Pd–Fe/chitosan and within 100 min with the 1.0% Pd–Fe/silica. Reaction rates were observed to increase with increasing Pd content of the Pd–Fe/support. The reactions apparently followed pseudo-first-order kinetics with respect to the 1,2,4-TCB transformation. A kinetic model is constructed to fit the experimental results for the reactions, enabling identification of the major and minor dechlorination pathways of 1,2,4-TCB. The model suggests that the 1,2,4-TCB transformation mainly followed the primary pathway of direct reductive dechlorination to benzene and secondary pathway of sequential hydrogenolysis to 1,2-dichlorobenzene (1,2-DCB) and then chlorobenzene (CB) or benzene.
Recent metabolic studies have demonstrated the importance of reactive intermediates like quinones or semiquinone radicals in the covalent binding of halobenzenes to liver protein. The current studies were designed to examine if quinone intermediates are involved in the toxicity of hepatotoxic halobenzenes, bromobenzene (BB) and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB). Two-electron reduction of the quinone intermediates by DT-diaphorase is considered to be a detoxication pathway since the resulting hydroquinone may be readily conjugated and excreted. Mice were pretreated with butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA; 0.5% in the diet, for 3 days), an inducer of DT-diaphorase, or dicoumarol (0.3 mmol/kg, p.o.), an inhibitor of this enzyme. The mice were then given BB (2.5 or 3.5 mmol/kg, i.p.) or 1,2,4-TCB (0.75 or 1.5 mmol/kg, i.p.). Dietary BHA markedly suppressed the hepatotoxicity caused by both BB and 1,2,4-TCB while dicoumarol significantly enhanced it, as judged by serum alanine aminotransferase activity. When mice were treated with BB at different times after the end of dietary BHA exposure, the degree of the protection against the hepatotoxicity appears to correlate to the extent of the induction of DT-diaphorase activity by BHA pretreatment. BHA pretreatment failed to protect against carbon tetrachloride-induced hepatotoxicity. These results seem to provide evidence for the involvement of the quinone metabolites in BB- and 1,2,4-TCB-induced hepatotoxicity and for the protective role of DT-diaphorase against the toxicity.
We describe the synthesis, supramolecular ordering on surfaces and in solution, and photophysical characterization of OPV4UT-PERY, an oligo(p-phenylenevinylene) (OPV) with a covalently attached perylene bisimide moiety. In chloroform, the molecule forms dimers through quadruple hydrogen bonding of the ureido-s-triazine array. This is supported by scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) studies, which reveal dimer formation at the liquid (1,2,4-trichlorobenzene)/solid (graphite) interface. Moreover, contrast reversal in bias-dependent STM imaging provides information on the ordering and different electronic properties of the oligo(p-phenylenevinylene) and perylene bisimide moieties. In dodecane, the molecule self-assembles into H-type aggregates that are still soluble as a result of the hydrophobic shell formed by the dodecyloxy wedges. The donor-acceptor molecule is characterized by efficient energy transfer from the photoexcited OPV to the perylene bisimide. Mixed assemblies with analogous OPVs lacking the perylene bisimide unit have been prepared in dodecane solution and energy transfer to the incorporated perylene bisimides has been studied by fluorescence spectroscopy.
A series of syndiotactic polystyrene (sPS) monoliths with controllable shapes, nanofibrous structures, hierarchical pores, superhydrophobicity, high specific surface area, and high strength have been fabricated for the first time by solidifying nonaqueous high internal phase emulsions (HIPEs) through crystallization-induced gelation. The nonaqueous HIPEs were formed by dispersing glycerol in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene stabilized by sulfonated sPS at a high temperature of 120 °C, and with sPS in the continuous phase, these HIPEs were solidified by cooling at room temperature to obtain sPS monoliths. The shapes of the sPS monoliths were controllable, and excitedly, nanofibrous structures were found at void walls, with fiber diameters ranging from 20 to 100 nm. The sPS monoliths exhibited pores in different scales: emulsion-templated voids at nearly 10 μm with pore throats ranging from 1 to 2 μm and macropores and mesopores between nanofibers, enabling the monoliths to exhibit extremely high specific surface are...
In the usual synthesis of s-triaminotrinitrobenzene (TATB), s-trichlorobenzene (TCB), is first nitrated to s-trichlorotrinitrobenzene (TCTNB) and then aminated with ammonia. The s-TCB is obtained as a byproduct from another synthesis operation or from 2,4,6-trichloroaniline. Isomerization of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene is another possible source. Eastman Chemical Company (Kingsport, Tennessee) is a large producer of 2,4,6-trichloroaniline (TCA) which is used in the synthesis of photographic chemicals; however, they are unwilling to convert this to either the s-TCB or trichloronitrobenzene due to environmental concerns. They have proposed instead to convert TCA to 1,3,5-trichloro-2-nitrosobenzene in large quantity.
A significant positive correlation between the lipid content of eight fish species and their bioconcentration factor (BCF) of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene is demonstrated. The log BCF value on a lipid basis is in good agreement with the log n-octanol/water partition coefficient.
The capacity of the β-Proteobacterium Pseudomonas sp. strain P51, which degrades chlorinated benzenes, to metabolize 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) under environmental conditions was tested by its release into two experimental systems. The first system consisted of laboratory scale microcosms which were operated with and without the addition of TCB and which were inoculated with sludge from a wastewater treatment plant. The second system consisted of a non sterile, water saturated soil column. We determined survival of strain P51 after its introduction and its ability to degrade TCB. The population dynamics was followed by selective plating and applying the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to detect strain P51 and the chlorobenzene (tcb) genes on catabolic plasmid pP51. The results showed a completely different behaviour of strain P51 in the two habitats under the applied conditions. In the soil column the P51 bacteria inoculated the entire area and their population reached 2 × 10 6 cells/g soil. The population remained active since TCB was degraded to concentrations below the detection limit of 30 µg/l. In the sludge microcosms, the number of strain P51 cells immediately decreased from 4 × 10 7 cells/ml to 10 5 cells/ml over a period of 2 days after inoculation, and then the strain disappeared to levels below our detection limit (10 3 -10 4 cells/ml). In the reactor without TCB the population of P51 maintained a stable value of 10 5 cells/ml during 8 days but then also decreased to levels below the detection limit. In addition, no significant TCB degradation was found in the sludge reactors. The influence of presence of TCB on maintenance of strain P51 in the two habitats is discussed. This work demonstrates the possibility to successfully apply preselected strains to degrade otherwise poorly degradable substances in complex mixed microbial communities. However, survival and activity may depend strongly on the type of system into which the strain is introduced.
To obtain more information on the applicability of selected bacterial strains to perform biodegradation under real-life conditions, we performed several experiments to study the population dynamics and activity of an introduced bacterium. The bacterium we used was a specifically selected strain for degradation of chlorinated benzenes. This strain, previously described as Pseudomonas sp. strain P51, is able to use monochlorobenzene, all isomers of dichlorobenzene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB), as sole source of carbon and energy (Van der Meer et al. 1991a ). Chlorinated benzenes are compounds which are resistant to microbial attack and not generally degraded by indigenous, non-adapted microorganisms. Therefore, they are more easily removed by specifically enriched strains, such as strain P51, and the catabolic activity of the strain can be addressed exclusively by measuring chlorobenzene disappearance.
Bacterial strains and plasmids. Anabaena sp. strain PCC 7120 and Nostoc ellipsosporum (an axenic culture derived from strain B1453-7 of the University of Göttingen algal culture collection) were grown in the light in liquid medium AA/8 with or without nitrate (22). Their growth was monitored by measurement of chlorophyll (27). The cultures were tested for the presence of contaminating heterotrophs microscopically and by plating on L agar and incubating for 1 week at 30ЊC. All cultures used were axenic. For determination of biodegradation, the basal medium was supplemented with lindane (␥-hexachlorocyclohexane [Sigma Chemical Co., St. Louis, Mo.]; 1% [wt/vol] stock solution in dimethyl sulfoxide [Mallinckrodt, Paris, Ky.]) at 0.5 g ml Ϫ1 (1.7 M), 0.6 mM 4-chlorobenzoate (4CB; p-chlorobenzoate), or 0.6 mM 4-iodobenzoate (4IB; p-iodobenzoate) (all from Sigma Chemical Co.). 4-Hydroxybenzoate (4HB; p-hydroxybenzoate) was also obtained from Sigma. Benzoate derivatives were dissolved in water upon titration with 10 N NaOH. 1,2,3-Trichlorobenzene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene were obtained from Aldrich Chemical Co., Milwaukee, Wis.
The objective of this study was two-fold: (i) to evaluate the effect of co-substrate supplementation and possible synergistic effect of the indigenous population and a lindane-acclimated inoculum on the removal of lindane in three-phase, aerobic slurry bioreactors (SB) , and (ii) to evaluate the effect final electron acceptor (O 2 , CO 2 and SO 4 -2 , or A, M, and SR, respectively) and supplementation with carbon source (sucrose, 1 and 0 g/L; C or NC, respectively) on the removal of lindane in triphasic lab scale SB. In a first experiment lindane was significantly removed in the first week of operation (55-70%); its reduction further continued at a lower rate. Both factors had a moderately significant effect; on the one hand, sucrose supplementation enhanced the removal of lindane (p < 0.08); on the other hand the indigenous microflora and lindane-acclimated inoculum exhibited some kind of antagonism (p < 0.07), since removals in SB with sterile soil were higher than those with live soil. In a second experiment, there was a significant effect of factor 'electron acceptors' on removal of lindane (p < 0.0001): lindane removal followed the order A > SR > M. Supplementation with sucrose had a significant positive effect (p < 0.004). Main metabolites from lindane degradation were chlorobenzene (CB), 1,2-dichlorobenzene (1,2-DCB) 1,3-dichlorobenzene (1,3-DCB) and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) in aerobic and sulfate reducing slurry bioreactors, only CB and 1,2-DCB were found in methanogenic units. Metabolites were consistent with those reported in aerobic and anaerobic degradation pathways of lindane.
Abstract-Binary systems consisting of 1,2-dichlorobenzene (12DCB) þ competitor were investigated over a range of concentrations of competitor in three natural sorbents with distinct characteristics. Two models, the ideal adsorbed solution theory (IAST) and the potential theory (Polanyi-based multisolute model), widely used in the prediction of multisolute sorption equilibrium from single-solute data, were used to simulate competitive sorption in our systems. The goal was to determine which multisolute model best represented the experimentally obtained multisolute data in natural sorbents of varied properties. Results suggested that for the sorbents and sorbates studied, the IAST model provided much better results. On average, the IAST model provided lower errors (23%) than the potential model (45%). The effect of competitor structure on the degree of competition was also investigated to identify any relationships between competition and structure using molecular descriptors. The competitors chlorobenzene, naphthalene, 1,4-dichlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene all showed very similar degrees of competition, while benzene, phenanthrene, and pyrene were the least effective competitors toward 12DCB across all sorbents. Different sorption sites or sorption mechanisms might be involved in the sorption of these molecules leading to a lack of competitive behavior. A significant relationship between competitor structure and the degree of competition was observed at environmentally relevant sorbed competitor concentrations for the soil containing the highest fraction of hard carbon (Forbes soil). Environ. Toxicol. Chem.
The solubilities of n-propyl bromide in nitrobenzene and in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene have been measured at 19, 25 and in the presence and absence of gallium bromide. When gallium bromide does not exist in the system, the solubility of n-propyl bromide in nitrobenzene is greater than in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, indicating a stronger interaction of n-propyl bromide with nitrobenzene than with 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. In the presence of gallium bromide, 1: 1 complex is formed in the solution. The instability constant K of the complex was evaluated. The change of enthalpy, free energy and entropy for the dissociation of the complex were also calculated. It seems that the stabilities of the complex, gallium bromide with alkyl bromide, are relatively concerned with the stabilities of the alkyl ion.
The effects of 2-chlorophenol, 2,4,6-trichlorophenol, 2,4-dimethylphenol, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, and butylbenzylphthalate on embryos and larvae of fathead minnows (Pimephales promelas) are presented and used to estimate their chronic toxicities. In conjunction with published toxicity data, structure-toxicity relationships are shown of acute (LC50) toxicity and chronic (MATC) toxicity endpoints with structure coefficients (SC’s) for chlorophenols and chlorobenzenes. Results indicate similar relationships of the SC’s with (LC50) values and of the SC’s with (MATC) values for chlorophenols. In contrast, chronic toxicity of chlorobenzenes increases significantly more than acute toxicity with increased chlorination. The chronic toxicity of 2,4-dimethylphenol is simil ar to that of chlorinated phenols. Acute toxicity of phthalate esters increases with increasing substituent carbon chain length, while chronic toxicity decreases. Substitution of a butyl group with a phenyl ring has little effect on acute toxicity but significantly increases chronic toxicity of the phthalate ester. The possible influence of metabolism and activation of parent compounds on structure-acute/chronic toxicity relationship differences is discussed.
Pd/Fe bimetal catalysts were utilized for the the mechanism of dechlorination of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene(1,2,4-TCB) in aqueous/heavy water medium at ambient temperature and pressure.Batch experiments demonstrated 1,2-DCB,1,3-DCB and 1,4-DCB represent stable partially dechlorination intermediates,then dechlorinate to chlorobenzene,and finally benzene.Heavy water was introduced into mechanical system and Deuterium was followed through the course of a process,providing it's evident that the content of 1,2-DCB was more than the content of 1,3-DCB and 1,4-DCB,in order to make the whole dechlorinated reaction carried out fast and thoroughly.
The heterotrophic uptake technique was modified to provide a rapid and simple technique for estimating the rates of biodegradation of organic pollutants under environmental conditions. The methodology is based on an evaluation of uptake into cells and subsequent respiration of radiolabeled organic substrates in short-term experiments. The resulting data can be used to calculate either turnover times or, if multiple concentrations of substrate are used, kinetic parameters. The procedure was applied to assess the biodegradation rates of m-cresol, chlorobenzene, nitrilotriacetic acid, and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene in fresh, brackish, and marine water samples from the coastal areas of North Carolina. Saturation kinetics for uptake were obtained with each of the compounds tested. Rates of metabolism were shown to be dependent on sample location and time of year.
The bioconcentration of three chlorobenzenes: 1,4-dichlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, and 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene, and three chlorophenols: 2,4,6-trichlorophenol, 2,3,5,6-tetrachlorophenol, and pentachlorophenol, was examined in a flow-through exposure system using juvenile American flagfish (Jordanella floridae) as the test organism. Exposure to the each chemical lasted for 28 days followed by a depuration period of 5 to 7 days. Uptake and elimination rate constants, as well as the steady state bioconcentration factor were determined for each chemical tested. The elimination rate constants determined from these bioconcentration tests compared favourably with elimination rate constants derived from non-linear curve fitting of time-toxicity data obtained in acute toxicity testing carried out with the same chemicals.
Electrochemical dechlorination of chlorobenzenes in the presence of various arene mediators such as naphthalene, biphenyl, phenanthrene, anthracene, and pyrene, was studied. The amount of mediator required was able to be reduced to 0.01 equiv. for all mediators except for anthracene, with the complete dechlorination of mono-, 1,3-di- and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene still achieved. This catalytic amount of mediator plays an important role in accelerating the dechlorination through the rapid formation of radical anions prior to reduction of the chlorobenzenes.
The conductor-like screening model for real solvents (COSMO-RS) is applied to the prediction of the aqueous solubility of chlorobenzenes (CBZs) in a liquid-liquid and liquid-solid equilibrium. The solubilities of CBZs at temperatures ranging from 5 to 60 degrees C are reported, and the enthalpies of solution are derived from van't Hoff plots. The salting effect of 12 chlorobenzenes is determined for sodium, potassium, and calcium solutions at concentrations ranging from 0.01 to 3.5 mol/L. A new experimental aqueous solubility value is given for the isotopic labeled 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene determined at 25 degrees C by the generator column procedure. The COSMO-RS method presented in this study can be useful to estimate the magnitude of the salt effect and temperature influence on the behavior of any chlorobezene under environmental conditions.
Abstract Excess volume ( V E ), excess isentropic compressibility ( κ S E ) and deviation in viscosity (Δ η ) were studied for eight binary systems of dimethylacetamide (DMA) with 1,2-dichlorobenzene, 1,3-dichlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, o -chlorotoluene, m -chlorotoluene, p -chlorotoluene, o -nitrotoluene and m -nitrotoluene in the entire composition range at 303.15 K and atmospheric pressure. Excess volume data for the studied mixtures were measured directly using a single composition loading type dilatometer and compared with predictive expressions proposed by Redlich–Kister and Hwang. Moreover, the V E data in the present investigation were analyzed by using Prigogine–Flory–Patterson (PFP) theory. The speed of sound data was measured with a single crystal interferometer at a frequency of 3 MHz and data were analyzed in terms of free length theory (FLT) and collision factor theory (CFT). Experimental viscosity data were measured by a suspended Ubbelohode-type viscometer, which in turn used to calculate deviation in viscosity and interaction parameters for various models such as Gruenberg–Nissan, Tamura and Kurata and Hind et al. The experimental data were discussed on the basis of intermolecular interactions between unlike molecules.
We measured densities (ρ), ultrasonic speeds (u) and viscosities (η) for binary binary mixtures of N-ethylaniline (N-EA) with chlorobenzene (CB), bromobenzene (BB), 1,2-dichlorobenzene (1,2-DCB), 1,3-dichlorobenzene (1,3-DCB), and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) and their pure liquids at 303.15 K and 308.15 K. These experimental data were used to calculate the excess volume (V E ), deviations in ultrasonic speeds (Δu), deviation in isentropic compressibility (Δ κ s ), deviation in intermolecular free length (ΔL f ), deviation in acoustic impedance (ΔZ), deviation in viscosity (Δη) and excess Gibbs free energy of activation of viscous flow (G* E ). The variations of these properties with composition of binary mixtures suggest loss of dipolar association, difference in size and shape of the component molecules, dipole-dipole interactions and hydrogen bonding between unlike molecules. The viscosity data were correlated with Grunberg and Nissan, Katti and Chaudhri, and Hind et al. equations and the results were compared with the experimental results. The excess parameters were fitted to the Redlich-Kister polynomial equation using multi parametric nonlinear regression analysis to derive the binary coefficients and to estimate the standard deviation.
Films of the semiconducting polymer poly[[4,8-bis[(2-ethylhexyl)oxy]benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene-2,6-diyl][3-fluoro-2-[(2-ethylhexyl)carbonyl]thieno[3,4-b]thiophenediyl]] with 40% fluorinated monomers, denoted PTB7-F40, are spin coated out of different solvents onto PEDOT:PSS films. The influence of the used solvents chlorobenzene, 1,2-dichlorobenzene, and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene as well as the influence of the additive 1,8-diiodooctane (DIO) is probed with grazing incidence small- and wide-angle X-ray scattering (GISAXS and GIWAXS). As seen with GISAXS, without DIO, the films are homogeneous and show roughness correlation with the PEDOT:PSS film surface. With DIO, an inner film structure with a size of 50–75 nm is found and the roughness correlations weaken. In addition, as seen in GIWAXS, the crystalline part of the films is influenced by the used solvent if DIO is added.
ABSTRACT Hybrid poplar trees were exposed to eleven organic compounds in hydroponic systems. The eleven contaminants were common pollutants with a wide range of physio-chemical properties such as the octanol-water partition coefficient, Henry's constant, vapor pressure, and molecular weight. Contaminants, 14C-labeled, were introduced into the root zone, and contaminant transport and fate were examined. Aqueous concentrations were monitored throughout each experiment as was vapor phase concentrations in the air stream passing over the leaves. At experiment conclusion, plant tissues were oxidized to determine 14C concentrations. The uptake, distribution, and volatilization of these contaminants varied greatly among the 11 contaminants in the study. Uptake and translocation of the contaminants ranged from < 0.3% (of the applied 14C-labeled compound) for 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene to 20% for benzene. Volatile compounds were volatilized from the leaves. Volatilization in the transpiration stream was related to the...
Abstract Four novel mixed (porphyrinato)(phthalocyaninato) rare earth double-deckers Eu III (TClPP)[Pc( t -BuPhO 2 ) 4 ] {H 2 TClPP = tetrakis(4-chlorophenyl)porphyrin, H 2 [Pc( t -BuPhO 2 ) 4 ] = 1,3,10,12(11,13),19,21(20,22),28,30(29,31)-octa- tert -butyl-tetrakis[1,4]benzodioxino[2,3- b :2′,3′- k :2″,3″- t :2‴,3‴- e 1 ]phthalocyanine}, HEu III (TClPP)[Pc(α-OC 4 H 9 ) 8 ] {H 2 [Pc(α-OC 4 H 9 ) 8 ] = 1,4,8,11,15,18,22,25-octa-butoxy-phthalocyanine}, Eu III (TClPP)[Pc(MeOPhO) 8 ]{H 2 [Pc(MeOPhO) 8 ] = 2,3,9,10,16,17,23,24-octakis(4-methoxyphenoxy)phthalocyanine} and Eu III (TClPP)[Pc(PhS) 8 ] {H 2 [Pc(PhS) 8 ] = 2,3,9,10,16,17,23,24-octakis(benzenesulfenyl)phthalocyanine} have been prepared for the first time by treating Eu(acac)(TClPP) with corresponding metal-free phthalocyanine in refluxing 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB). Typical IR marker bands of the monoanion radical Pc ( t - BuPhO 2 ) 4 - , Pc(MeOPhO) 8 - and Pc(PhS) 8 - show strong bands at 1310, 1319, and 1318 cm −1 , and are attributed to pyrrole C C stretchings. The TClPP − IR marker band at ca. 1270–1300 cm −1 was not observed for these compounds. These facts indicate that the hole in these double-deckers is mainly localized at the phthalocyanine ring. The marker IR band for phthalocyanine monoanionradical, Pc ( α - OC 4 H 9 ) 8 - , appearing at ca. 1312 cm −1 as a medium absorption band was not observed for HEu III (TClPP)[Pc(α-C 4 H 9 ) 8 ]. Instead, a significant peak appearing at ca. 1321 cm −1 with weak intensity is assigned to the pyrrole stretching of the phthalocyanine dianion, Pc ( α - OC 4 H 9 ) 8 2 - . This suggests that both the phthalocyanine and porphyrin rings exist as dianions in mixed (porphyrinato)(phthalocyaninato) complex, HEu III ( TClPP 2 - ) [ Pc ( α - OC 4 H 9 ) 8 2 - ] . The four complexes were characterized by MS, EA, UV–Vis and IR spectra.
[14C]Benzene, [14C]1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, [14C]pentachlorobenzene, and [14C]hexachlorobenzene were applied to soils in outdoor lysimeters to a 10-cm depth (2 mg/kg dry soil); barley and cress plants were grown for one vegetation period and analyzed after varying time intervals. The bioaccumulation factors (concentration of radioactive substances in plants divided by that in soils) of barley were higher than those of cress, except for hexachlorobenzene. In barley, bioaccumulation factors increased with decreasing chlorine content of the molecules, except for benzene, whereas in cress hexachlorobenzene exhibited the highest bioaccumulation factor. The conversion ratios of chlorinated benzenes (percentage of conversion products based on total radioactivity in plants) were negatively correlated to the chlorine content of the molecules and, in barley, positively correlated with time; in general, they were higher in barley than in cress. The concentration of radioactive substances in the plants, as well as bioaccumulation factors, decreased with time, except for a slight increase in benzene-derived residues in barley after 125 days. This effect is due to growth dilution. The percentage of radioactivity in barley seeds, based on that in the whole plant, was negatively correlated to the chlorine content of the molecule.
The excess volume of mixing of some electron-donating aromatic hydrocarbons like benzene, toluene,p-xylene, and mesitylene with an electronaccepting liquid 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene have been measured at 30°C. The results indicate that the interaction between the components increases as the electron-donating power of the hydrocarbons increases. The V m e values are related to the ionization potentials of the hydrocarbons.
A series of alkyl- and alkoxy-substituted rhombic-shaped bisDBA derivatives 1a−d, 2a, and 2b were synthesized for the purpose of the formation of porous networks at the 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB)/graphite interface. Depending on the alkyl-chain length and the solute concentration, bisDBAs exhibit five network structures, three porous structures (porous A, B, and C), and two nonporous structures (nonporous D and E), which are attributed to their rhombic core shape and the position of the substituents. BisDBAs 1a and 1b with the shorter alkyl chains favorably form a porous structure, whereas bisDBAs 1c and 1d with the longer alkyl chains are prone to form nonporous structures. However, upon dilution, nonporous structures are typically transformed into porous ones, a trend that can be understood by the effect of surface coverage, molecular density, and intermolecular interactions on the system’s enthalpy. Furthermore, porous structures are stabilized by the coadsorption of solvent molecules. The most intri...
Twenty-four-hour integrated ambient air samples were collected in canisters at 10 locations within Kuwait's major power station: Doha West Power Station to assess the spatial distribution of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) within the perimeter of the station. A total of 30 samples, i.e., three samples per location, were collected during February and March. The samples were analyzed using a gas chromatography with flame ionization detection (GC-FID) system and following the U.S. EPA Method TO-14A with modification. The results reflected the emission activities on the site and the meteorological conditions during sampling. Generally speaking, there was a negative correlation between the ambient temperature and the VOC concentrations, which indicates the sources were local. The halogenated compounds formed the highest proportion (i.e. 50-75 %) of the total VOC concentrations at the ten locations. 1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene and Vinyl Chloride concentrations were the highest amongst the other halogenated compounds. The aromatic compounds formed the least proportion (i.e. 1-4%) of the total VOC levels at all locations with Toluene having the highest concentrations amongst the aromatic compounds at seven locations. Propene, which is a major constituent of the fuel used, was the highest amongst the aliphatic compounds. The findings of this study and other relevant work suggests the measured VOC levels were the highest over the year, nevertheless, further work is required to assess the precisely temporal variation of VOC due to change in meteorological conditions and the emission rates. ::: ::: ::: IMPLICATIONS ::: Assessment of VOC concentrations around a power plant in Kuwait during the peak season showed halogenated compounds to be the dominant group. The calculated indoor concentrations were lower than those reported in a residential area about 12 km away.
Introduction Persistent organic pollutants (POPs) such as dioxins, polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), organochlorine pesticides (OCPs), dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylenes (DDTs) and brominated diethyl ethers (BDEs) are distributed globally. Exposure to POPs is an important subject, because of the potential hazards to human and animal development and health. Particular attention has been given to xenobiotic compounds that are capable of modulating or disrupting the endocrine system. It is critically important that we determine whether environmental concentrations of POPs, such as PCBs and OCPs, may elicit adverse effects in animals and ultimately humans, especially during sensitive stages of development, in, for example, gonadal cells. POPs may have adverse effects on reproductive function. Younglai et al. reported that the contaminants most frequently found in ovarian follicular fluid in a survey of women, were1,1-dichloro-2,2-bis(p-chlorophenyl)-ethylene (p,p'DDE), mirex, hexachloroethane,1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, and PCBs (i.e. PCB 49, PCB 153, and PCB 180). p,p'DDE was the most frequently detected chemical contaminant in the serum and follicular fluid , had the highest residue levels, and was associated with decreased reproductive success. Real-life mixtures of POPs are composed of different compounds, at different concentrations in different biological matrices. There are gaps in our knowledge on which agents occur in a mixture, and at which levels they exert toxicity. Moreover, there is also considerable uncertainty about their possible mechanisms of action. The fact that cod livers from the Baltic Sea may be unsuitable for human consumption because of heavy contamination with PCBs, DDTs, and hexachlorobenzene (HCB) has been known for many years. Ten years later Asplund et al. showed that fatty fish species, e.g., salmon and herring, in the Baltic Sea have high levels of (PCBs) and 1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis(p-chlorophenyl)ethane (p,p'-DDT), and its main metabolite p,p'-DDE. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects on steroid secretion by ovarian follicular cells of exposure to three different compounds of POPs (PCB 153, p,p-DDE and BDE-47), all of which are significantly associated with human exposure. These effects were compared with those of a real-life mixture of POPs harvested from cod liver oil from the Atlantic Ocean, in which the three compounds of interest are known to occur at high concentrations.
The transformation of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) at initial concentrations in nano- and micromolar ranges was studied in batch experiments with Burkholderia sp. strain PS14. 1,2,4-TCB was metabolized from nano- and micromolar concentrations to below its detection limit of 0.5 nM. At low initial 1,2,4-TCB concentrations, a first-order relationship between specific transformation rate and substrate concentration was observed with a specific affinity (a(0)(A)) of 0.32 liter. mg (dry weight)(-1). h(-1) followed by a second one at higher concentrations with an a(o)(A) of 0.77 liter. mg (dry weight)(-1). h(-1). This transition from the first-order kinetics at low initial 1,2,4-TCB concentrations to the second first-order kinetics at higher 1,2,4-TCB concentrations was shifted towards higher initial 1,2,4-TCB concentrations with increasing cell mass. At high initial concentrations of 1,2,4-TCB, a maximal transformation rate of approximately 37 nmol. min(-1). mg (dry weight)(-1) was measured, irrespective of the cell concentration.
Cells of the diatom Cyclotella meneghiniana were exposed in a closed system to 0.245 ppm 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. Response to this chlorinated benzene was monitored over a period of 5 days by quantitative ultrastructure and fatty acid percent composition. Over the time period examined, 41 significant morphological changes and 12 significant changes in fatty acid composition were observed. Autophagic-like vacuoles were frequently observed, indicating lysis of cellular constituents. In general, there was an increase in the C20:5 fatty acid, which may be indicative of photosynthetic impairment, since this fatty acid probably substitutes for linolenic acid in diatoms. The most significant numbers of changes were observed after 8 hr of exposure to this lipophilic toxicant, and these changes occurred in membranous organelles. It is suggested that the daily photoperiodic variation in lipid content of phytoplankton may be an important consideration in evaluating effects of lipophilic toxicants.
This work examines the hypothesis that exposure of Daphnia magna to sublethal levels of narcotic contaminants may affect subsequent sensitivity of the animals. Prior exposure (24 h) of Daphnia to sublethal levels of acetone, acetophenone, benzene, benzoic acid, butanol, 1,2-dichlorobenzene, 2-methylnaphthalene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, 1,1,2,2-tetrachloroethane, and toluene had no effect on their sensitivity to effective levels of these chemicals in eight of 10 cases. Effective burdens (24-h acute exposure) were independent of the sublethal body burdens (24-h sublethal exposure) and of the sublethal water concentrations (P < 0.025) in eight of 10 cases. Butanol and benzoic acid were the exceptions. The null hypothesis was then accepted in 80% of the cases. These results imply that animals from polluted sites should be no more resistantto high body residues of pollutants than those from clean sites and that the toxicity of narcotic organic contaminants may be independent of the time course of uptake.
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) and tetrachloroethene (PCE) were chosen to study their competitive effect on 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene (1,2,4,5-TeCB) sorption by three soils/sediments from South China with different fractions of natural organic matter (NOM) employing a batch technique. Results showed that cosolutes 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and tetrachloroethene exhibited apparent competition against 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene in all of the three sediments. 1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene was more effective competitor than tetrachloroethene because the structure of 1,2,4-TCB is very close to that of 1,2,4,5-TeCB. Furthermore, the extent of competition depended on the rigidity of sediment NOM matrixes. The more reduced and condensed the matrixes are, the larger extent of competitive effect would the corresponding sediment show at a given sorbed volume of competitor.
The O3/H2O2/UV combination process was employed to treat the simulated 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene(TCB) containing wastewater.The effect of initial TCB concentration,pH,H2O2 dosage and ozone transform rate on TCB removal efficiency was investigated.The potential degradation pathway of TCB was proposed with the help of GC,GC/MS and HPLC analysis.Results showed that the removal efficiency of TCB in 5 degradation system(H2O2,O3,UV,O3/H2O2,O3/H2O2/UV) followed the order of H2O2UVO3O3/H2O2O3/H2O2/UV.The single-factor test of O3/H2O2/UV degradation system showed that higher TCB removal efficiency always found in system with lower initial TCB efficiency or higher ozone transform rate.H2O2 dosage had an optimum value,below or above the optimum value could reduce the TCB removal efficiency.Alkaline condition of O3/H2O2/UV process was in favor to the TCB degradation.The mechanism of TCB degradation in O3/H2O2/UV system was the reaction between TCB and ·OH.In the early stages of degradation,the C-Cl bond in benzene rings was attacked by ·OH and produced hydroxylation chlorobenzene compounds;then,·OH continued attacking the activated benzene ring and produced low chlorinated benzene chlorine material;Finally,the hydroxylation compounds was broken and generating small molecule organic acid.
Abstract Samples of three series of homogeneous oxyethylene oligomers: (i) H(OCH 2 CH 2 ) m OH, m in the range 1 to 45; (ii) CH 3 (OCH 2 CH 2 ) m ,OCH 3 , m in the range 2 to 45; (iii) H(CH 2 ) n (OCH 2 CH 2 ) 4 O(CH 2 ) n H, n = 2, 3, 7, 9; were eluted through a PL-gel low-porosity gel permeation chromatographic column with several solvents; dichloromethane, tetrahydrofuran, 1,1,1-trichloroethane, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, and N,N′-dimethylacetamide. The elution volumes of the oligomers were determined by a combination of size-exclusion and partition—adsorption effects.
Significance: The authors demonstrated the first sequence-directed, dynamic covalent approach to unsymmetrical macrocycles like A 6 , (AB) 3 , A 5 B, A 4 B 2 , and A 3 B 3 using imine formation and exchange. Formation of macrocycle A 6 was carried out by treating 1 AA with Sc(OTf) 3 in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene at 75 ºC for 3 hours, followed by stirring under reduced pressure (1 mmHg) at room temperature for 5 hours. By combining corresponding monomer(s), (AB) 3 , A 5 B, A 4 B 2 , and A 3 B 3 were also obtained in similar manner.
Electron tunneling through an analyte molecule can yield chemical information. 6, 7, 8 Given that hydrogen bonds enhance electron tunneling rates over vacuum tunneling,9 we have proposed a new approach using self-assembled, hydrogen bonded tunnel junctions to give good contacts10 and chemical selectivity simultaneously.5,11 To demonstrate the feasibility of this approach, we functionalized a gold STM probe with a DNA base that was brought into contact with a monolayer of nucleosides on a gold surface under 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene ( Figure 1 and see Methods). A steady tunnel current set-point (I SP ) was established under servo-control, the servo broken, and the current recorded as the probe was pulled away from the surface. Current-decay curves for a number of hydrogen-bond molecular junctions are Users may view, print, copy, and download text and data-mine the content in such documents, for the purposes of academic research, subject always to the full Conditions of use:http://www.nature.com/authors/editorial_policies/license.html#terms * Correspondence and requests for materials should be addressed to SL. Stuart.Lindsay@asu.edu. Author contributions SC and JH carried out tunneling measurements. AK carried CAFM measurements. ML and OS performed the DFT calculations. PZ synthesized the materials. SL managed the experimental design and analyzed the data.
Preparation of reagents and surfaces is described in the supporting information. Tunneling measurements were carried out on a PicoSTM (Agilent, Chandler) with the sample and probe submerged in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. Approach and retraction curves were recorded using custom Labview software. Conducting AFM (PicoAFM, Agilent, Chandler) measurements used probes with nominal spring constants of 0.35 and 2 N/m (Mikromasch) sputter coated with alternating layers of chrome and gold (25Å Cr, 50 Å Au, 25 Å Cr, 50 Å Au, 25 Å Cr, 100 Å Au, 25 Å Cr and 300 Å Au). The final probe radii, determined by SEM lay between 100 and 200 nm. Probes were immersed in 1 mM solutions of 8-mercaptoadenine or 2-amino-8-mercaptoadenine in DMF or 1 mM thiophenol in methanol (control experiments) for 2 to 12 h immediately after removal from the sputter-coater. Simultaneous force and conductance measurements were taken at a series of nominal current setpoints between 0.5 and 9 nA with a bias of 0.4V in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene using thymidine monolayers and a probe retraction speed of 2000 nm/s. After taking measurements, each probe was calibrated using the thermal-noise method.23
Actinobacteria are well-known degraders of toxic materials that have the ability to tolerate and remove organochloride pesticides; thus, they are used for bioremediation. The biodegradation of organochlorines by actinobacteria has been demonstrated in pure and mixed cultures with the concomitant production of metabolic intermediates including γ-pentachlorocyclohexene (γ-PCCH); 1,3,4,6-tetrachloro-1,4-cyclohexadiene (1,4-TCDN); 1,2-dichlorobenzene (1,2-DCB), 1,3-dichlorobenzene (1,3-DCB), or 1,4-dichlorobenzene (1,4-DCB); 1,2,3-trichlorobenzene (1,2,3-TCB), 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB), or 1,3,5-trichlorobenzene (1,3,5-TCB); 1,3-DCB; and 1,2-DCB. Chromatography coupled to mass spectrometric detection, especially GC-MS, is typically used to determine HCH-isomer metabolites. The important enzymes involved in HCH isomer degradation metabolic pathways include hexachlorocyclohexane dehydrochlorinase (LinA), haloalkane dehalogenase (LinB), and alcohol dehydrogenase (LinC). The metabolic versatility of these enzymes is known. Advances have been made in the identification of actinobacterial haloalkane dehydrogenase, which is encoded by linB. This knowledge will permit future improvements in biodegradation processes using Actinobacteria. The enzymatic and genetic characterizations of the molecular mechanisms involved in these processes have not been fully elucidated, necessitating further studies. New advances in this area suggest promising results. The scope of this paper encompasses the following: (i) the aerobic degradation pathways of hexachlorocyclohexane (HCH) isomers; (ii) the important genes and enzymes involved in the metabolic pathways of HCH isomer degradation; and (iii) the identification and quantification of intermediate metabolites through gas chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry (GC-MS).
This study was carried out using various materials (carpet, gypsum board, upholstery, vinyl and wood flooring, acoustic tiles, and fruit) that were exposed to eight gaseous volatile organic compounds (VOCs) (isopropanol, MTBE, cyclohexane, toluene, ethylbenzene, tetrachloroethene, 1,2-dichlorobenzene, and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene) in electro-polished stainless-steel chambers. Dynamic responses in VOC concentrations were used to determine linear adsorption and desorption rate coefficients and equilibrium partition coefficients. A linear adsorption/desorption model was used to effectively describe the interactions between VOCs and indoor surface materials for short-term source events (10 h). Relationships between sorption parameters and chemical vapor pressure and the octanol-air partition coefficient were observed. Carpet was identified as the most significant sorptive sink for non-polar VOCs. Virgin gypsum board was observed to be a significant sink for highly polar VOCs. Sorptive interactions between non-polar VOCs and indoor materials were not affected by variations in relative humidity. However, increases in relative humidity were observed to increase the degree of sorption of isopropanol to carpet.
The alkylation of benzene by γ-valerolactone catalysed by aluminum bromide in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene solvent has a rate law: γ=k[benzene][lactone][Al2Br6–(lactone)0/2] where k= 0·61 M–2S–1 at 35°.
Combined effects of organic or inorganic pollutants on soil microbial activities were investigated in field plots grown with four types of covering plants. It was derived from this study that combined effects were dependent not only on the type and dose of pollutants, addition of soda lime, plant type and season variation, but also on test parameters. When jointly added, higher doses of Cd, Cu, Pb, Zn and As caused significant inhibition. Addition of soda lime could even enhance inhibition. Joint effects of phenanthrene, MET (active ingredient: paclobutrazol) and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene were not significant, and may be covered by other biotic or abiotic factors. Compared with other two parameters (respiration and microbial biomass), dehydrogenase activity appeared to be more sensitive for evaluating the toxicity of anthropogenic pollutants in soil. Soil samples collected in summer often had higher microbial activities than those in fall. The microbial activity in soil decreased with covering vegetation in the order alfalfa > pine > poplar and maize, albeit some exceptions were observed.
A simple gas chromatographic method is described for the determination of dichloro-, trichloro-, and tetrachlorobenzene impurities in 1,3,5-trichlorobenzene samples. The sample is dissolved in carbon disulfide, and an aliquot is chromatographed on a 6-ft. long 10% Bentone 34 column. The peak heights and peak areas are measured and related to concentration by means of calibration curves. 1,3,5-Trichlorobenzene samples were found to contain small amounts of m-dichlorobenzene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. From these data and thin-layer chromatographic analyses of crude 1,3,5-trichloro-2,4,6-trinitrobenzene, an explanation is proposed for the origin of the 1,3-dinitro-2,4,5,6-tetrachlorobenzene impurity found in 1,3,5-triamino-2,4,6- trinitrobenzene samples. It is concluded that 1,3-dinitro-2,4,5,6-tetrachlorobenzene is produced during the nitration of 1,3,5-trichlorobenzene.
We investigated the processes of phase segregation controlled by velocity of solvent drying in composite materials formed by mixing tert-butyl[60]fullerenoacetate (TBC-C60) with the conjugated polymer poly(3-hexylthiophene). When the high boiling solvent 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) was used as solvent to dissolve the composites, we found that vertical phase separation could be induced due to the ultra-slow evaporating velocity of TCB. In contrast, the film cast from o-dichlorobenzene displayed lateral phase segregation. The vertical phase segregation was verified by atomic force microscopy measurements, as well as photoluminescence lifetime lengthening in comparison with the lateral one determined by time-correlated single-photon counting techniques. Furthermore, external quantum efficiency (EQE) curves demonstrated different profile shapes when devices were illuminated from either indium tin oxide electrode side or semi-transparent metal electrode one. In addition, devices based on vertical phase segregation exhibited large open circuit voltage (Voc) compared with those with laterally segregated structures. The device based on the vertical phase segregation structure with a short circuit current density (Jsc) of 4.6 mA cm−2, an open circuit voltage (Voc) of 0.56 V and a fill factor of 0.54 yielded a power conversion efficiency of 1.4%. We described a simple model to explain the phase segregation in these blend composites, and showed how the absorption and EQE of the composite devices could be tuned by changing solvent drying velocity.
1,4-Dichlorobenzene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene were compared with hexachlorobenzene which is known to cause porphyria. Although hexachlorobenzene administration resulted in a manyfold increase in liver porphyrin levels and urinary excretion of porphyrins, the lesser chlorinated compounds did not do so.
The roles of mineral-bound humic acid (HA) and mineral surfaces in the sorption of six nonpolar neutral organic compounds with relatively high aqueous solubility, Sw , (1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, 1,4-dichlorobenzene, chlorobenzene, m-xylene, toluene, and benzene) to low-surface-area (i.e., ≤ 1.2 m2/g) metal (hydr)oxide- and HA-coated sands with low organic carbon fractions (i.e., 0.006% ≤ foc ≤ 0.044%) were investigated using well-characterized mineral surfaces [i.e., α-FeO(OH)- or Al2O3- coated sands], terrestrial HA, and solutions with relatively constant pH and ionic strength. Sorption isotherms of all six compounds to low-surface-area metal (hydr)oxide-and HA-coated sands were practically linear (i.e., 0.898 ≤ n ≤ 1.06), and resulted from a combination of sorption to both mineral-bound HA and mineral surfaces, with the dominance of either contribution depending on the properties of the sorbents (e.g., foc ) and organic compounds (e.g., Sw and Kow ). Compared to HA-associated high-surface-area, pure metal...
This study shows that surface-supported two-dimensional (2D) porous covalent organic frameworks (COFs) can selectively bind different molecules at specific sites via different types of interactions. Scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) images collected at the liquid/solid interface reveal the adsorption of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) in the hexagonal pore of a COF-1 template. A well-defined loop boundary formed by a chain of pentagonal and heptagonal pores allowed the investigation of the effect of pore shape and size on TCB adsorption, suggesting that both geometrical and size effects are important in binding TCB. When both C60 and TCB are present at the solution/solid interface, the TCB molecules are selectively trapped in the pore-site, whereas fullerenes are adsorbed on the top-site of COF-1. While the former structure is stabilized by Cl⋯H hydrogen bonds, the latter is controlled by van der Waals interactions. These results suggest that COFs may offer a powerful platform for the recognition and patterning of guest molecules.
Abstract The relation between dechlorination activities of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and anaerobic microbial activity were studied in the sediment collected at three sites in Ise Bay in Japan. The degradation rate of spiked 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (3nmol ml −1 ) ranged from 15 to 35 pmol day −1 ml −1 wet sediment and about 1 3 to 1 2 of degraded the trichlorobenzene was recovered as dechlorinated products. Among the dichlorobenzenes, the 1,2-isomer had the highest and 1,3-isomer had the lowest production rate. Comparing the three sampling sites, the trichlorobenzene degradation and dichlorobenzenes production rates were related to the sulfate reducing activity for the unit number of sulfate reducing bacteria. Production rates of dichlorobenzenes were completely inhibited by adding molybdate (20 mM), nitrate (60 mM), and formaldehyde solution (4 %). These results indicated that dechlorination activity in the Ise Bay sediment was supported by sulfate reduction activity in the sediment, and not supported by any other anaerobic microbial activity.
Abstract This study was carried out using various materials (carpet, gypsum board, upholstery, vinyl and wood flooring, acoustic tiles, and fruit) that were exposed to eight gaseous volatile organic compounds (VOCs) (isopropanol, MTBE, cyclohexane, toluene, ethylbenzene, tetrachloroethene, 1,2-dichlorobenzene, and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene) in electro-polished stainless-steel chambers. Dynamic responses in VOC concentrations were used to determine linear adsorption and desorption rate coefficients and equilibrium partition coefficients. A linear adsorption/desorption model was used to effectively describe the interactions between VOCs and indoor surface materials for short-term source events (10 h). Relationships between sorption parameters and chemical vapor pressure and the octanol-air partition coefficient were observed. Carpet was identified as the most significant sorptive sink for non-polar VOCs. Virgin gypsum board was observed to be a significant sink for highly polar VOCs. Sorptive interactions between non-polar VOCs and indoor materials were not affected by variations in relative humidity. However, increases in relative humidity were observed to increase the degree of sorption of isopropanol to carpet.
This study shows that surface-supported two-dimensional (2D) porous covalent organic frameworks (COFs) can selectively bind different molecules at specific sites via different types of interactions. Scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) images collected at the liquid/solid interface reveal the adsorption of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) in the hexagonal pore of a COF-1 template. A well-defined loop boundary formed by a chain of pentagonal and heptagonal pores allowed the investigation of the effect of pore shape and size on TCB adsorption, suggesting that both geometrical and size effects are important in binding TCB.
Host/guest (H/G) chemistry in two-dimensional (2D) supramolecular networks has been extensively studied as a means to immobilize a variety of guest molecules, with potential applications in separation technology, molecular recognition, sensing, catalysis and nanoscale patterning. 1, 2 In general, H/G networks rely on hierarchical interactions: the interactions binding the host together are stronger than the interactions binding the guest to the host. The host networks are typically sustained by hydrogen bonding, [3] [4] [5] [6] van der Waals (vdW) forces, 7, 8 or metal-ligand interactions, 9 whereas the adsorption of guest molecules mainly occurs via weaker interactions, typically dispersive interactions with the host as well as with the underlying substrate. However, moving away from selfassembled templates may offer some new opportunities for the stabilization of guest molecules. 2D covalent organic frameworks (COFs) have recently been explored as host systems, [10] [11] [12] opening the possibility of using stronger interactions to stabilize molecules into pores. COF-1, a well ordered 2D porous material that can be synthesized through the onsurface polycondensation of benzenediboronic acid (BDBA), 13 is a promising candidate for this application. The mutually specific recognition between the host network and the guest molecules, i.e., a form of molecular recognition, is at the core of host-guest chemistry. 14, 15 Design strategies for selectivity in guest bonding have often relied on tuning the host geometry, such as pore size, 16, 17 shape 18 and chirality. 19 Much less is known about design based on the interaction between a host and a guest. 20 This is mainly due to limitations of hierarchical interaction strength imposed by self-assembled host templates. This aspect can be addressed by using a covalentlybonded template, such as COF-1, which enables a route to molecular recognition through a range of different interactions, including hydrogen bonding, halogen bonding or vdW interactions. Here, we show that a template of COF-1 can host 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) guest molecules that are stabilized through X⋯H hydrogen bonding. The adsorption is enabled through a combination of factors, including the host pore size and shape, and the specific stereochemical arrangement of binding sites. By introducing a solution of C 60 in TCB onto the COF-1 template, we observe that selective adsorption of C 60 on top of the COF-1 template is obtained simultaneously with trapping of TCB within the pores. This work demonstrates a strategy to separate and recognize molecules through different interactions within a covalent porous 2D template.
High-temperature solvent gradient interaction chromatography (HT-SGIC) is a fast and efficient fractionation technique for the chemical composition analysis of olefin copolymers. The separation of ethylene-propylene random copolymers (EPRs) was achieved on a graphitic stationary phase, Hypercarb, at 160 °C by using linear solvent gradient elution from 1-decanol to 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB). In the present work, the solvent gradient profile was modified to improve the chromatographic separation of EPRs. With the aim to obtain a better resolution in separation, a slow increase in the volume fraction of TCB was applied. This allowed for a relatively large retention region for linear polyethylene (PE) chains on the column; thereby, a broader elution volume zone between the start of the gradient and the PE elution was achieved. The efficiency of this new gradient profile was demonstrated by analysing two fully amorphous EPR samples. Clear differences in the chemical composition of these EPR samples with similar ethylene contents have been proven by using this modified solvent gradient. The comprehensive chemical composition and microstructure analysis of the SGIC-separated fractions by FTIR revealed that ethylene/propylene (EP) copolymer chains were eluted according to their ethylene/propylene contents and E or P sequence lengths, even though they are distributed in a random manner. These results showed that the solvent composition is an important factor to affect the interactive adsorption or desorption behaviour of EP chains on Hypercarb. In this way, for the first time, the determination of the complex composition and chain structure of EPR samples was achieved within short analysis time, which is not possible till now using other fractionation techniques reported.
Bimolecular quenching of fluorescence was observed for fluoranthene, coronene and 3,4-benzophenanthrene in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene or tetrahydrofuran solution, and the rate constant of the process was determined at various temperatures between room temperature (295 K) and 77 K. The bimolecular quenching rate constant was found to be a little smaller than that for a diffusion-controlled process in a fluid solvent. From the temperature dependence of the rate constant the quenching was found to be due to the long-range interaction which is enhanced by diffusion of the excited molecules in fluid media.
1. Human- and rat-liver microsomes convert the lindane metabolite, β-PCCH (β-1,3,4,5,6-pentachlorocyclohex-1-ene (3,4,6/5-PCCH)) to the metabolites: 1,2,4-TCB (1,2,4-trichlorobenzene), 1,2,3,4-TTCB (1,2,3,4-tetrachlorobenzene), 2,4,5-TCP (2,4,5-trichlorophenol), 3,4,5/6-PCCOL (1,2,4,5,6-pentachlorocyclohex-1-en-3-ol) and β-PCCH oxide (1,2,3,4,5-pentachloro-7-oxabicyclo[4.1.0]heptane) or (3,4,6/5-PCCH oxide).2. The identity of the β-PCCH oxide is confirmed by column chromatography and g.l.c.-mass spectrometry, in comparison to characterized synthetic material.3. The stability of the β-PCCH oxide is indicated by its resistance to hydrolysis by microsomal epoxide hydrolase (EC. 3.3.2.3), or various aqueous acid conditions.4. It shows no mutagenicity using S. typhimurium strain TM677. However, in levels above 0-05 mg/ml it was lethal to the test cells.5. It is not a substrate for and is only a weak inhibitor of epoxide hydrolase.6. A stable halogenated hydrocarbon epoxide metabolite is described. Its toxicolo...
Pseudomonas paucimobilis UT26 is capable of growing on gamma-hexachlorocyclohexane (gamma-HCH). A genomic library of P. paucimobilis UT26 was constructed in Pseudomonas putida by using the broad-host-range cosmid vector pKS13. After 2,300 clones were screened by gas chromatography, 3 clones showing gamma-HCH degradation were detected. A 5-kb fragment from one of the cosmid clones was subcloned into pUC118, and subsequent deletion and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry analyses revealed that a fragment of ca. 500 bp was responsible for the conversion of gamma-HCH to 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene via gamma-pentachlorocyclohexene. Nucleotide sequence analysis revealed an open reading frame (linA) of 465 bp within the fragment. The nucleotide sequence of the linA gene and the deduced amino acid sequence showed no similarity to any known sequences. The product of the linA gene was 16.5 kDa according to sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Images
Adsorption behaviors of the chlorinated organic compounds (COCs) (i.e., trichloroethylene (TCE), 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB); 1,2-dichlorobenzene (1,2-DCB); and monochlorobenzene (MCB)) by the commercial rice husk-based biochar (RH500) and the laboratory-prepared biochars from corn stalks under different pyrolytic temperatures (i.e., CS300, CS500, CS700) were examined and interpreted by the pseudo-first-order kinetic model, the double layer model with two energies, and the Freundlich model. It is identified that the first-order adsorption rate constants (k 1 = 0.06∼0.51 h−1) were proportional to the high aromaticity and/or low polarity of biochars and the strong hydrophobicity of the COCs. The saturated adsorption capacity for the COCs was followed by the order of RH500 > CS500 > CS700 > CS300. RH500 showed the highest adsorption capacity for the COCs due to its high surface area (SA) and total pore volume (TPV). However, CS500 with low SA and TPV development highlighted the important roles of the aromaticity and/or low polarity on the COCs adsorption. In addition, 1,2,4-TCB showed the highest saturated adsorption capacity on all biochars, followed by TCE, 1,2-DCB, and MCB. The results further revealed the positive effects of the physical properties (α, N M, e 1, and e 2), the hydrophobicity and electrostatic forces (i.e., π-π interaction and electron donor-acceptor interaction) between the adsorbates and the aromatic moieties of biochar surfaces on the adsorption of COCs.
Abstract Ytterbium (III) acetylacetonate reacts with 5,10,15,20-tetraphenylporphyrin (H 2 TPP) and 5,10,15,20-tetra(4-bromophenyl)porphyrin (H 2 TBrPP) in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and forms unexpected acetate-bridged dimer and propionate-coordinated monomer of monoporphyrinate ytterbium (III) complexes, respectively, whereas interaction of ytterbium (III) acetate with H 2 TPP gives stable acetate-coordinated monomer with two labile methanol binding directly to metal center. This compound reacts readily with 1,10-phenanthroline derivatives to give eight-coordinate monoporphyrinate ytterbium (III) complexes with strong near infrared emission efficiency.
Abstract Pure and mixed δ/α-aluminas were prepared and modified (treated with HCl gas and aq HNO 3 ) in order to be studied as supports of nickel catalysts for the hydrodechlorination reaction of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene in the gas phase. All the samples were structurally characterized using XRD, BET, TPR, SEM and TPD techniques. The catalytic activities for the hydrodechlorination of 1,2,4 trichlorobenzene are higher for the catalysts containing the modified supports (especially those treated with HNO 3 ) and can be explained by the reduction degree (TPR), the structure (BET area, TPD and SEM) and the number and type of catalytic active sites (H 2 TPD). The activity can be related to the hydrogen available at the reaction temperature (423–523 K) while the selectivity towards benzene can be explained in terms of the hydrogen desorbed at lower temperatures (350–500 K) which competes with the aromatic compounds to be adsorbed on the surface of the catalyst. The selectivity towards benzene is directly related to the activity for each catalyst. Nevertheless, the most selective catalyst towards benzene is the one supported on α-alumina (73% of selectivity at 523 K) which is not the most active. This may be correlated to the hydrogen desorbed at low temperatures.
Pseudomonas paucimobilis UT26 is capable of growing on 'y-hexachlorocyclohexane (,y-HCH). A genomic library of P. paucimobilis UT26 was constructed in Pseudomonas putida by using the broad-host-range cosmid vector pKS13. After 2,300 clones were screened by gas chromatography, 3 clones showing y-HCH degradation were detected. A 5-kb fragment from one of the cosmid clones was subcloned into pUC118, and subsequent deletion and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry analyses revealed that a fragment of ca. 500 bp was responsible for the conversion of y-HCH to 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene via -y-pentachlorocyclohexene. Nucleotide sequence analysis revealed an open reading frame (linA) of 465 bp within the fragment. The nucleotide sequence of the linA gene and the deduced amino acid sequence showed no similarity to any known sequences.
1, 2, 4-TCB is one of the three isomerides of trichlorobenzene, in the category of chlorobenzene, which is common in industrial application, and has "three genicity" toxin. Chlorobenzene pollutant is easy to penetrate common water pollution control project shield to enter natural environment, stay and gather in organism for a long time, as a threat to human body health and ecological environment [1] . Since 1990s, a lot of domestic and foreign scholars have researched much on the bio-degradation of chlorobenzene, and now have separated to the degrading bacteria of monochlorobenzene, 1, 4-dichlorobenzene, 1, 3-dichlorobenzene, 1, 2-dichlorobenzene, 1, 2, 4-TCB and 1, 2, 4, 5-tetrachlorobenzene [2] . In which, there is few domestic and foreign report on suitable bacteria of 1, 2, 4-TCB, especially the research under low temperature condition. This research aims at the actual environmental condition of low-temperature groundwater in the northeast of China, 3 strain of low temperature and high efficiency 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene-degrading bacteria areobtained from the slurry of sewage factory as the research object, the environmental condition that affects the degradation effect of the strain is confirmed through experiment, the strain is preliminarily identified to provide theoretical support for the subsequent research on the construction and engineering application of high efficiency engineering bacteria.
A soil culture experiment was conducted to study the effects of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene(TCB) on morphological and physiological indexes of rice at maximum tillering stage, using rice cultivars of Ningjing 1(TCB sensitive genotype) and Yangfujing 8(TCB tolerant genotype), with four treatments of TCB concentrations including 0(CK), 20, 40, and 60 mg kg–1. The results indicated that the maximum root length, plant height, tillers per hill, shoot and root dry weight of Ningjing 1 were all decreased significantly(P0.05) under different concentrations of TCB. Low TCB stress(20 mg kg–1) significantly increased Yangfujing 8's maximum root length, shoot and root dry weight, root activity(P0.01), while medium and high TCB stresses(40 and 60 mg kg–1)decreased maximum root length, plant height, tillers per hill, shoot and root dry weight significantly(P0.05). Ningjing 1's root activity, chlorophyll content, soluble protein content in leaves and roots were relatively low under different concentrations of TCB, at the same time, its activities of superoxide dismutase(SOD), peroxidase(POD), and catalase(CAT) in leaves and roots decreased, while O2- producing velocity and malnodialdehyde(MDA) content increased significantly(P0.05). Low TCB stress(20 mg kg–1) significantly increased Yangfujing 8's soluble protein content and activities of SOD, POD, CAT in leaves and roots, and significantly(P0.05) decreased its O2- producing velocity and MDA content. Under medium TCB stress(40 mg kg–1), the activities of SOD, POD, CAT in leaves and roots were enhanced, however, its O2? producing velocity and MDA content increased significantly. High TCB stress(60 mg kg–1) decreased its root activity, chlorophyll content, the activities of SOD, POD, CAT in leaves and roots, and increased O2- producing velocity and MDA content significantly(P0.05). In a word, compared with sensitive genotype, well growth vigor, high protein content in leaves and roots, better ability of antioxidant system in scavenging reactive oxygen speciesand lower membrane lipid peroxidation under low concentration TCB stress(20 mg kg–1) are regarded as the main features of TCB tolerant genotype in rice.
The heteroleptic triple-decker complexes Eu2(Pc)(Por)2 and Eu2(Pc)2(Por) {Pc = dianion of phthalocyanine; Por = dianions of 5,10,15,20-tetrakis(4-tert-butylphenyl)porphyrin [T(4-Bu)PP2]}], 5,10,15,20-tetrakist(4-methoxylphenyl)porphyrin {T(4-OMe)PP2−} or 5,10,15,20-tetrakis(4-chlorophenyl)porphyrin [T(4-Cl)PP2−]} have been prepared by treating Eu(acae)(Por) (acac = acetylacetonate), generated in situ from Eu(acac) · nH2O and H2O and H2Por, with Li2Pc in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. These sandwich compounds undergo four reversible one-electron oxidations and up to three reversible one-electron reductions as revealed by cyclic voltammetry. The effect of substituents at the periphery of porphyrins on the redox potentials of complexes are discussed.
A porous hydrogen-bonded organic framework (HOF) responsive to acid was constructed from a hexaazatrinaphthylene derivative with carboxyphenyl groups (CPHATN). Precise structures of both 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene solvate [CPHATN-1(TCB)] and activated HOF with permanent porosity (CPHATN-1a) were successfully determined by single-crystalline X-ray diffraction analysis. Permanent porosity of CPHATN-1a was evaluated by gas sorption experiments at low temperature. CPHATN-1a also shows significant thermal stability up to 633 K. Its crystals exhibit a rich photochemistry thanks to intramolecular charge-transfer and interunit proton-transfer reactions. Femtosecond (fs) experiments on crystals demonstrate that these events occur in ≤200 fs and 1.2 ps, respectively. Moreover, single-crystal fluorescence microscopy reveals a shift of the emission spectra most probably as a result of defects and a high anisotropic behavior, reflecting an ordered crystalline structure with a preferential orientation of the molecular dipo...
The solubility enhancement of nonionic organic compounds (NOCs) by surfactants may represent an important tool in chemical and biological remediation of contaminated soils. In aqueous systems, the presence of dissolved surfactant emulsions or micelles may enhance the solubility of NOCs by acting as a hydrophobic partitioning phase for the NOCs. However, most environmental remediation efforts involve soil-water or sediment-water systems, where surfactant molecules may also interact with the solid phase. An understanding of the effect of surfactants on the sorption and distribution of NOCs in soil or sediment environments will provide an essential basis for utilizing surfactants in environmental remediation. In this study, the authors examined the effect of a micelle-forming surfactant (Triton X-100) on the sorption of 2,2{prime},4,4{prime},5,5{prime}-PCB, 1,1-bis(p-chlorophenyl)-2,2,2-trichloroethane (p,p{prime}-DDT) and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB). A conceptual model, which accurately describes the functional dependence of K* on Triton X-100 concentration, was developed based on the partition coefficients of these NOCs by soil, soil-surfactant, surfactant monomer and surfactant micelle phases. This model can be further modified to provide quantitative prediction of K* of a given NOC at different surfactant concentrations.
We herein investigated the effect of the number of alkoxy chains on the two-dimensional self-assembly of a trigonal molecular building block. To this end, a dehydrobenzo[12]annulene (DBA) derivative, DBA-OC14-OC1 having three tetradecyloxy chains and three methoxy groups in an alternating manner, was synthesized. Scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) observations at the 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB)/graphite interface revealed that DBA-OC14-OC1 forms three monolayer structures: porous honeycomb, parallelogram, and hexagonal A structures. At the 1-phenyloctane (PO)/graphite interface, DBA-OC14-OC1 also forms three structures: parallelogram, hexagonal B, and dense linear structures. In contrast to the previously reported DBA derivative DBA-OC14 having six tetradecyloxy chains, DBA-OC14-OC1 shows structural polymorphism with a variety of alkyl chain interaction modes. Because in the observed patterns DBA-OC14-OC1 adopts a low symmetric Cs or C1 geometry, the variation of the interaction modes and the resulting ...
1. After intraperitoneal administration, γ-hexachlorocyclohexane (Gammexane) and γ-2,3,4,5,6-pentachlorocyclohex-1-ene were converted by rats into 2,3,5- and 2,4,5-trichlorophenol, which were excreted as free phenols and as sulphuric acid and glucuronic acid conjugates. 2. Derivatives of 2,4,5-trichlorophenol and 2,4,5-trichlorophenyl glucosiduronic acid and 2,4-dichlorophenylmercapturic acid were isolated from the urine as metabolites of γ-2,3,4,5,6-pentachlorocyclohex-1-ene. 3. The phenolic metabolites of γ-hexachlorocyclohexane and γ-2,3,4,5,6-pentachlorocyclohex-1-ene isolated from urine were similar to those of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, which indicates that the two latter compounds are intermediates in γ-hexachlorocyclohexane metabolism in rats.
Abstract Adult Eisenia fetida earthworms were exposed to sub-lethal concentrations of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene to assess the toxicity of contaminated soils. The LC 50 of 1,2,4-TCB at 7 and 14 d were 945±175 and 890±169 mg kg −1 . A lower dose of 1,2,4-TCB (25 mg g −1 ) had stimulatory effects on SOD and AChE activities, but AChE activities were significantly inhibited at higher treatment levels (100 and 400 mg g −1 ). SOD activities increased after 2, 7, and 14 d of exposure, but AChE activities were significantly inhibited at 400 mg/kg 1,2,4-TCB after 2, 7, and 14 d of exposure, and the inhibition rates were 25.41%, 28.65%, and 25.05%. Ultrastructural observation of the intestinal epithelium at three concentrations (control, 50, and 400 mg g −1 ) revealed that the epicuticle, cuticle layer, and microvilli were damaged with increasing 1,2,4-TCB concentration. At 400 mg kg −1 , mitochondria were seriously injured and the smooth endoplasmic reticulum was seriously dilated.
Thermoplastic poly(ester-siloxane)s (TPES) and poly(ester-ether-silo- xane)s, (TPEES), based on poly(butylene terephthalate) (PBT) as the hard segment and different siloxane-prepolymers as the soft segments, were prepared. The TPES and TPEES were synthesized by catalyzed two-step transesterification from di- methyl terephthalate, (DMT), 1,4-butanediol, (BD) and a siloxane-prepolymer. In- corporation of dicarboxypropyl- or disilanol-terminated poly(dimethylsiloxane)s (PDMS) into the polar poly(butylene terephthalate) chains resulted in rather inho- mogeneous TPES copolymers, which was a consequence of a prononuced phase separation of the polar and non-polar reactants during synthesis. Two concepts were employed to avoid or reduce phase separation: 1) the use of siloxane-containing triblock prepolymers with hydrophilic terminal blocks, such as ethylene oxide (EO), poly(propylene oxide) (PPO) or poly(caprolactone) (PLC) when the terminal blocks serve as a compatibilizer between the extremely non-polar PDMS and the polar DMT and BD, and 2) the use of a high-boiling solvent (1,2,4-trichlorobenzene) dur- ing the first phase of the reaction. Homogeneity was significantly improved in the case of copolymers based on PCL-PDMS-PCL.
Concentrations of di, and trichlorobenzenes were determined in porewater and sediment of a sediment core from lake Ketelmeer, the Netherlands. Average in-situ partition coefficients for di, and trichlorobenzenes (log K oc ) ranged from 4.3 ± 0.2 for 1,2-dichlorobenzene to 5.0 ± 0.2 for 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. Concentrations of di- and trichlorobenzenes in porewater were 1 to 2 orders of magnitude lower than calculated from the sediment data using literature partition coefficients. In-situ partition coefficients differed from literature values for partition coefficients obtained in lab experiments by a factor of 8 to 160. Assuming that the low concentrations in porewater can be attributed to the presence of a slow desorbing fraction it can be calculated that for most compounds studied more than 95% of the measured sediment concentration was present in the slow desorbing fraction.
Electrochemical dechlorination of chlorobenzene in organic solutions was studied. Electrolysis of chlorobenzene in acetonitrile solution in a one-compartment cell fitted with a platinum cathode and a zinc anode at 60mA/cm(2) and 0 degrees C was found to be the optimum conditions, which gave complete dechlorination of chlorobenzene. However, similar result could not be achieved when applying these conditions to 1,3-dichlorobenzene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. We found that the use of naphthalene which reacted as a mediator in the appropriate system could accelerate the reduction and gave complete dechlorination of those chlorobenzenes. Moreover, in the presence of naphthalene the reaction time could be shortened by half compared to dechlorination in the absence of naphthalene.
Abstract: Thermoplastic poly(ester-siloxane)s (TPES) and poly(ester-ether-siloxane)s, (TPEES), based on poly(butylene terephthalate) (PBT) as the hard segment and different siloxane-prepolymers as the soft segments, were prepared. The TPES and TPEES were synthesized by catalyzed two-step transesterification from dimethyl terephthalate, (DMT), 1,4-butanediol, (BD) and a siloxane-prepolymer. Incorporation of dicarboxypropyl-or disilanol-terminated poly(dimethylsiloxane)s (PDMS) into the polar poly(butylene terephthalate) chains resulted in rather inhomogeneous TPES copolymers, which was a consequence of a prononuced phase separation of the polar and non-polar reactants during synthesis. Two concepts were employed to avoid or reduce phase separation: 1) the use of siloxane-containing triblock prepolymers with hydrophilic terminal blocks, such as ethylene oxide (EO), poly(propylene oxide) (PPO) or poly(caprolactone) (PLC) when the terminal blocks serve as a compatibilizer between the extremely non-polar PDMS and the polar DMT and BD, and 2) the use of a high-boiling solvent (1,2,4-trichlorobenzene) during the first phase of the reaction. Homogeneity was significantly improved in the case of copolymers based on PCL-PDMS-PCL.
High-surface area nickel spinels (220-180 m 2 /g) were synthesized to be used as supports of nickel catalysts for an exhaustive hydrodechlorination and ring hydrogenation of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene in the gas phase. The Ni/NiAl 2 O 4 catalysts were initially able to transform this polychlorinated compound to cyclohexane. The surface chlorination decreased the hydrogen coverage and there was a loss in the ability to hydrogenate the aromatic ring but the selectivities towards benzene were high (87%), as were the conversions (82%). These catalysts also gave high selectivities towards cyclohexane (100%) when benzene was directly hydrogenated.
Objective To establish the method of determining halogenated hydrocarbon in drinking water with headspace gas chromatography.Methods Halogenated hydrocarbon in the water were extracted by headspace technology(oven temperature: 70 ℃,vial equilibrium time: 20 min,NaCl: 380 g/L),then analyzed with Rtx-1701 capillary column,then were determined with GC by controlling the temperature.Retention time of the peaks was used for qualitative analysis,while external standard method was used for quantitative analysis.Results The linear ranges of 1,1-dichloroethylene,dichloromethane,trans-1,2-dichloroethylene,cis-1,2-dichloroethene,trichloromethane,1,1,1-trichloroethane,carbon tetrachloride,1,2-dichloroethane,trichloroethylene,dichloromomethane,1,2-dibromoethene,tetrachloroethylene,1,1,2-trichloroethane,dibromochloromethane,tribromomethane,1,3-dichlorobenzene,1,4-dichlorobenzene,1,2-dichlorobenzene,1,3,5-trichlorobenzene,1,2,4-trichlorobenzene,hexachlorobutadiene 1,2,3-trichlorobenzene,1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene,1,2,3,4-tetrachlorobenzene,pentachlorobenzene,hexachlorobenzene were 0.013-742.4 μg/L,the limit of detection were 0.001 2-1.10 μg/L,the rates of recovery were 85.2%-113.8% and RSDs were 1.7%-7.1%.Conclusion This method is simple,rapid,sensitive,accurate and applicable to the simultaneous determination of 26 kinds of halogenated hydrocarbon in the water.
Recently, an extraction of la metallofullerenes from soot using 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene has been reported for La@C80 and La@C82. In both cases, the cages were derivatized by the solvent (forming La@C80-C6H3Cl2 and La@C82-C6H3Cl2) and the following X-ray analysis disclosed rather unexpected cages: C80(C 2v ;3) and C82(C 3v ;7). In order to explain the challenging observations, a two-step computational treatment is presented. The first step deals with the high-temperature gas-phase formation of the underivatized endohedrals while the second step models the reaction with the solvent. The Gibbs free energies were evaluated for representative temperatures and the computational scheme was able to confirm high relative populations for the observed derivatized cages.
Reaction of metal-free N-confused 5,10,15,20-tetrakis(4-chlorophenyl)porphyrin (H2NTClPP) with metal-free 5,10,15,20-tetrakis[(4-tert-butyl)phenyl]porphyrin (H2TBPP) in the presence of M(III)(acac)3·nH2O (acac = acetylacetonate) in refluxing 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) led to the isolation of heteroleptic bis(porphyrinato) rare earth compounds M(III)(HNTClPP)(TBPP) (M = La, Pr) (1, 2) in 6.7-10% yield. These represent the first examples of sandwich-type porphyrin rare earth double-decker complexes that involve N-confused porphyrin ligand. Different from their homoleptic bis(porphyrinato) rare earth double-decker counterparts HM(III)(TBPP)2 (M = La, Pr) (3, 4), the acidic proton in the heteroleptic analogues was revealed to localize at the inverted pyrrole nitrogen atom of the N-confused porphyrin ligand on the basis of NMR spectroscopic studies. Nevertheless, their heteroleptic bis(porphyrinato) sandwich molecular nature was confirmed on the basis of single crystal X-ray diffraction analysis over the praseodymium double-decker complex.
Abstract A new ionic liquid based, multiphase reaction system was investigated for the catalytic hydrogenation of propionitrile. The reaction system under investigation consisted of a solid heterogeneous Ru-catalyst (Ru on carbon), two liquid phases and the hydrogen gas-phase. By using two liquid phases in the reactor – of which one was an ionic liquid – it was possible to improve significantly the selectivity for the formation of propylamine by suppressing consecutive reactions to dipropylamine and tripropylamine. This enhanced selectivity resulted either from the protonation of the primary formed amine (in case of the Bronsted acidic ionic liquids dimethylcyclohexylammonium hydrogensulfate and 1-butylimidazolium hydrogensulfate) or from the extraction of the primary amine into the organic phase (in case of a 1-ethyl-3-methylimidazolium ethylsulfate/1,2,4-trichlorobenzene biphasic system).
Objective To develop a method for analysis of eighteen organic pollutants in drinking water. Methods The eighteen organic pollutants including 1,4-dichlorobenzene,1,2-dichlorobenzene,1,3,5-trichlorobenzene,1,2,4-trichlorobenzene,1,2,3-trichlorobenzen,hexachlorobenzene,α-HCH,β-HCH,γ-HCH,δ-HCH,4,4'-DDE,4,4'-DDD,2,4'-DDT,4,4'-DDT,heptachlor,hexachlorobutadiene,chlorothalonil,deltamethrin in drinking water were simultaneously determined by DB-5 capillary column-gas chromatography(electron capture detector) using temperature programming. Qualitative analysis was done by retention time and quantitative analysis by external standard method. The chromatographic conditions and detection limits were studied and optimized,and applied to detect the eighteen organic pollutants in practical drinking water samples. Results Under the optimal experimental conditions,the eighteen organic pollutants were separated well. The average recoveries were in the range of 80% ~ 107%,the relative standard deviations were from 0. 9% to 3. 4%,and the detection limit was between 0. 001 μg /L and 0. 1 μg /L. Conclusion The developed method is simple,sensitive,accurate,with good accuracy and precision. It can be used to determine a variety of organic pollutants in drinking water simultaneously.
Fractionation of stable carbon isotopes upon degradation of trichlorobenzenes was studied under aerobic and anaerobic conditions. Mineralization of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene by the aerobic strain Pseudomonas sp. P51 which uses a dioxygenase for the initial enzymatic reaction was not accompanied by a significant isotope fractionation. In contrast, reductive dehalogenation by the anaerobic strain Dehalococcoides sp. strain CBDB1 revealed average isotope enrichment factors (η) between −3.1 and −3.7 for 1,2,3- and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, respectively. The significant isotope fractionation during reductive dehalogenation would allow tracing the in situ biodegradation of halogenated benzenes in contaminated anoxic aquifers, whereas the lack of isotope fractionation during aerobic transformation limits the use of this approach in oxic environments.
Fractionation of stable carbon isotopes upon degradation of trichlorobenzenes was studied under aerobic and anaerobic conditions. Mineralization of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene by the aerobic strain Pseudomonas sp. P51 which uses a dioxygenase for the initial enzymatic reaction was not accompanied by a significant isotope fractionation. In contrast, reductive dehalogenation by the anaerobic strain Dehalococcoides sp. strain CBDB1 revealed average isotope enrichment factors (e) between )3.1 and )3.7 for 1,2,3-and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, respectively. The significant isotope fractionation during reductive dehalogenation would allow tracing the in situ biodegradation of halogenated benzenes in contaminated anoxic aquifers, whereas the lack of isotope fractionation during aerobic transformation limits the use of this approach in oxic environments.
Under strictly anoxic conditions, some microbial consortia are able to reductively dehalogenate chlorobenzenes to less chlorinated benzene congeners (see [2] for a review). No efficient reductive dehalogenation of monochlorobenzene has been found yet. The different reductive dehalogenation pathways during anaerobic microbial transformation of chlorobenzenes have recently been summarized by Adrian and G€ orisch [3] . Only in some bacteria the reductive dehalogenation of chlorinated compounds is coupled to energy conservation known as dehalorespiration [7] . Dehalorespiration with chlorinated benzenes has been demonstrated with a mixed culture and with the pure culture Dehalococcoides sp. strain CBDB1 [8, 9] . Dehalococcoides sp. strain CBDB1 is able to dechlorinate 1,2,3,5-tetrachlorobenzene to 1,3,5-TCB, as well as 1,2,3,4-and 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene via 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) to a mixture of 1,3-and 1,4-dichlorobenzene. 1,2,3-TCB is dehalogenated to 1,3-dichlorobenzene (1, . Recently, also the reductive dechlorination of hexachlorobenzene and pentachlorobenzene to tri-and dichlorobenzenes by Dehalococcoides sp. strain CBDB1 and Dehalococcoides ethenogenes strain 195 by has been reported [10, 11] . Dehalogenation of chlorinated benzenes by Dehalococcoides sp. strain CBDB1 is catalyzed by a membrane associated dehalogenase. Crude cell extracts showed enzymatic activity towards 1,2,3-TCB, 1,2,4-TCB, all three tetrachlorobenzene congeners, penta-and hexachlorobenzene when methyl viologen was added as an artificial electron donor. Product patterns obtained with crude extracts and methyl viologen as an artificial electron donor were identical to patterns obtained in cultures growing with hydrogen as electron donor [12] . Similar to most other reductive dehalogenases described earlier [7] , the reductive dehalogenase of Dehalococcoides sp. strain CBDB1 seems to contain a corrinoid co-factor. The distantly related strain DF-1 that has been shown to dehalogenate polychlorinated biphenyls in a mixed culture was also shown to dehalogenate hexachlorobenzene, pentachlorobenzene and 1,2,3,5-tetrachlorobenzene [13, 14] . To date, no other bacteria have been described that dehalogenate chlorobenzenes at a significant respiratory rate.
Abstract After application of [ 14 C]lindane to the nutrient medium (1.45 ppm), 14.1% of the radioactivity was taken up by 12 lettuce plants during 4 weeks; in the nutrient medium, 7.8% was recovered after the same time interval. The radioactivity in the nutrient extract comprised: unchanged lindane (about 82%); free 2,3,4,6-tetrachlorophenol, free pentachlorophenol, conjugates of pentachlorophenol, and an unidentified polar compound (a total of 15%); 1,2,3-trichlorobenzene, 1,2,3,4-tetrachlorobenzene, pentachlorobenzene, hexachlorobenzene, 2,3,4,5,6-pentachlorocyclohex-1-ene, and probably 1,2,3,4,5,6-hexachlorocyclohexene (a total of 3%). The radioactivity extracted from plants consisted of unchanged lindane (about 77%); free 2,3,4,6-tetrachlorophenol, conjugates of a tetrachlorophenol and pentachlorophenol, and a strongly hydrophilic compound that was not identified (a total of 20%); 1,2,3-trichlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, pentachlorobenzene, 2,3,4,5,6-pentachlorocyclohex-1-ene, and probably 1,2,3,4,5,6-hexachlorocyclohexene (a total of 3%). Identification was carried out by means of comparisons of chromatographic properties and of the mass spectra with those of authentic reference compounds. The significance of hexachlorobenzene as a metabolite of lindane is discussed.
The effect of co-existing compounds on the decompositions of three target compounds (i.e., 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB), 1,4-dioxane, and 17β-estradiol) using the ozone/hydrogen peroxide (O3/H2O2) process was investigated. Their reactivities toward HO• are assumed to be of the order of 109 /M · s. The decomposition rate of TCB was much higher during the O3/H2O2 process than during ozonation in the presence of bicarbonate ion, an inhibitor of radical chain reactions. 17β-Estradiol, a highly reactive target compound toward ozone, was decomposed at lower ozone dose than TCB and 1,4-dioxane, lowly reactive target compounds toward ozone, in the presence of humic acid. The reactivities of the co-existing compounds toward HO• were significantly related to the treatment efficiency of TCB when their concentrations as TOC were similar. The effect of humic acid, fulvic acid, and glucose, target compounds highly reactive toward HO•, on the decomposition of TCB was similar regardless of co-existing compounds. On the other hand, significantly lower effect of acetate and oxalate ions, target compounds lowly reactive toward HO•, on the decomposition of TCB was observed. Ozone dose required for the decomposition of TCB was inversely proportional to TCB concentration when HO• generated was greatly scavengedby co-existing compounds. On the other hand, ozone dose required for the decomposition of TCB was less affected by TCB concentration when HO• generated was used effectively for the decomposition of TCB.
We have investigated the motion of growing pentacene single crystals in solution under various electric fields. The pentacene single crystals in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene responded to the electric field as if they were positively charged. By optimizing the strength and frequency of an alternating electric field, the pentacene crystals automatically bridged the electrodes on SiO2. The pentacene crystal with a large aspect ratio tended to direct the [110] orientation parallel to the conduction direction, which will be suitable from a viewpoint of anisotropy in mobility. The present result shows a possibility of controlling the position and orientation of organic single crystals by the use of an electric field, which leads to high throughput and low cost industrial manufacturing of the single crystal array from solution.
1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) is one of the most widely used persistent organic pollutants. However, the studies of 1,2,4-TCB on the algae were rarely discussed. Toxic effects of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB ) on three kinds of ocean tiny algae (Isochrysis Zhanjiangensis, Chaetoceros miielleri, Platymonas Subcordiformis) were studied through the changes of growth of algae, the protein contents and the chlorophyll contents. The results showed the growth of algae was inhibited by 1,2,4-TCB in treated time-response and dose-response manners. The protein contents and the chlorophyll contents were decreased after 4 d 1,2,4-TCB treatment in dose-response manners. It suggested that 1,2,4--trichlorobenzene has toxic effects on three ocean tiny algae. The mechanism may relate to the functional damage of algal photosynthesis and the damage of protein structures. 1,2,4-TCB decreased the values of algae as baits. Furthermore, 1,2,4-TCB would have potential toxic effects for the other kinds of organisms and human.
The transcription of reductive dehalogenase homologous (rdh) genes of "Dehalococcoides" sp. strain CBDB1 was investigated during the growth and reductive dechlorination of 1,2,3- and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB). A method was developed to monitor the expression of all 32 rdhA genes present in the genome based on reverse transcription-PCR amplification with 13 degenerate primer pairs and terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (t-RFLP) analysis. With this approach, the upregulation of the transcription of 29 rdhA genes was indicated in response to 1,2,3- and 1,2,4-TCB added after a substrate depletion period of 72 h. The transcription of the remaining three rdhA genes additionally was detected using specific primers. While most rdhA genes were upregulated similarly in cultures after induction with 1,2,3-TCB or 1,2,4-TCB, three rdhA genes responded differentially to 1,2,3- and 1,2,4-TCB, as revealed by the comparison of t-RFLP profiles. The enhanced transcription of cbdbA1453 and cbdbA187 was observed in the presence of 1,2,3-TCB, while the transcription of cbdbA1624 was strongly induced by 1,2,4-TCB. Comparison of t-RFLP profiles obtained from cDNA and genomic DNA indicated a particularly high induction of the transcription of cbrA (=cbdbA84) by both TCBs. As indicated by reverse transcription-quantitative PCR, the transcription of these plus two other rdhA genes (cbdbA1588 and cbdbA1618) increased within 48 to 72 h by one or two orders of magnitude. Subsequently, transcript levels slowly decreased and approached initial transcript levels several days after complete dehalogenation. Finally, cbrA was transcribed to a level of 22 transcripts per cbrA gene, suggesting that cbrA mRNA could be an appropriate biomarker for the investigation of the natural dechlorination potential at chlorobenzene-contaminated sites.
In the past century, human activities have released large amounts of chlorinated organic compounds into the environment, and these compounds are among the most pervasive groundwater pollutants. Chloroorganics with fewer chlorines can usually be biodegraded by aerobic microorganisms, whereas more highly chlorinated ones can be reductively dechlorinated by organisms using them as electron acceptors for anaerobic respiration. Several microbial groups carry out respiratory reductive dechlorination 1 , but one genus, Dehalococcoides, seems particularly adapted to a unique niche, and the bacteria are only known to use chloroorganics as electron acceptors and hydrogen as an electron donor for growth. Several studies have now shown successful application of Dehalococcoides-containing cultures for in situ remediation of contaminated sites 2,3 . The recently described genome sequence of D. ethenogenes, strain 195 (ref. 4), an organism that reductively dechlorinates the solvents tetrachloroethene and trichloroethene to vinyl chloride and ethene 5 , reflects this specialization: although only 1.47-megabases (Mb) long, the genome possesses 17 rdhAB pairs potentially encoding reductive dehalogenases and genes predicted to encode five different hydrogenase complexes. We describe here the genome sequence of Dehalococcoides sp. strain CBDB1, a bacterium that has in many ways a different dechlorination spectrum from strain 195. For instance, strain CBDB1 (refs. 6,7) dechlorinated 1,2,3-trichlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, 2,3-dichloro-p-dibenzodioxin and the 'Seveso dioxin ' 2,3,7,8-tetrachloro-p-dibenzodioxin, but strain 195 (ref. 8) did not. In contrast to strain 195, strain CBDB1 did not dechlorinate tetrachloroethene past dichloroethene 6 . By sequencing a second Dehalococcoides genome, we can now show that strain CBDB1 has an even greater potential as a reductive dechlorinator than strain 195 and, in addition, the comparison of the two genomes with each other provides insights into the evolution of reductive dechlorination in this unusual microbial group.
Fullerene-rich soot generated by resistive heating of graphite has been gently extracted with toluene, in order to remove some C60 and C70 compounds, followed by extraction with boiling 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene at 214°C. After filtration and removal of the solvent, the residue was re-dissolved in dichloromethane and characterized by non-aqueous reversed phase liquid chromatography coupled on-line with atmospheric pressure chemical ionization mass spectrometry. Several novel fullerenes were detected, including C72, C80, C86, and C88 as well as other fullerenes up to C108 and higher. The results indicate that chromatographic separation of large fullerene molecules can be achieved with low boiling point solvents and conventional liquid chromatographic techniques.
Four automatic compounds were evaluated in laboratory studies to investigate their accumulation and toxicant-induced changes in the rate of heat dissipation in the freshwater invertebrates Chironomus riparius and Lumbriculus variegatus. The sublethal energetic response detected by direct calorimetry was related to tissue chemical concentration by the threshold model and an attempt was made to apply the critical body residue (CBR) concept. Below the compound-specific tissue threshold concentration or CBR, no correlations were found between the dose and the metabolic rate, and the slopes of the regression were close to zero. Above the threshold, depending on the chemical, metabolic rate either increased or decreased. An increase in heat output produced by 2,4-dinitrophenol (2,4-DNP), pentachlorophenol (PCP), and 2,4,5-trichlorophenol (2,4,5-TCP) was closely correlated with the dose. The order of toxicity for these phenols was 2,4-DNP = PCP > 2,4,5-TCP, which reflects the interaction of compounds` lipophilicities and acidities and their combined influence on bioaccumulation and effects on the energy-transducing membrane by uncoupling oxidative phosphorylation. A decrease in the heat output caused by 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) was more variable relative to dose. Also, 1,2,4-TCB required a much higher molar tissue threshold concentration ({approximately}2.0 {micro}mol/g wet weight) than required by phenols to generate the response. Bothmore » the metabolic response and the chemical threshold value were those expected to result from narcosis. Results suggest that calorimetric measures can identify not only the integrated physiologic response but also have some resolution of the mechanism of toxic effects.« less
Abstract Excess molar volume (VE), excess isentropic compressibility (κsE), viscosity deviation (8η) and excess Gibbs free energy of activation of viscous flow (G*E) for binary mixtures of 2-chloroaniline (CA) with 1,2-dichlorobenzene (1,2-DCB), 1,3-dichlorobenzene (1,3-DCB), and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) at selected compositions were determined from the measured values of densities, speeds of sound, and viscosities of pure components and their mixtures at 303.15, 308.15, 313.15 and 318.15 K and atmospheric pressure. The excess molar volumes, excess isentropic compressibilities, viscosity deviation and excess Gibbs energy of activation of viscous flow have been analyzed in terms of interactions arising due to structural effect, charge-transfer complexes and dipole–dipole interaction between unlike molecules. The viscosity data have been correlated with Grunberg and Nissan, Katti and Chaudhri, Hind et al., and Heric–Brewer equations and the results are compared with the experimental results. The excess parameters have been fitted to the Redlich–Kister polynomial equation using multi-parametric nonlinear regression analysis to derive the binary coefficients and to estimate the standard deviation.
The tecB gene, located downstream of tecA and encoding tetrachlorobenzene dioxygenase, in Ralstonia sp. strain PS12 was cloned into Escherichia coli DH5α together with the tecA gene. The identity of the tecB gene product as a chlorobenzene dihydrodiol dehydrogenase was verified by transformation into the respective catechols of chlorobenzene, the three isomeric dichlorobenzenes, as well as 1,2,3- and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzenes, all of which are transformed by TecA into the respective dihydrodihydroxy derivatives. Di- and trichlorotoluenes were either subject to TecA-mediated dioxygenation (the major or sole reaction observed for the 1,2,4-substituted 2,4-, 2,5-, and 3,4-dichlorotoluenes), resulting in the formation of the dihydrodihydroxy derivatives, or to monooxygenation of the methyl substituent (the major or sole reaction observed for 2,3-, 2,6-, and 3,5-dichloro- and 2,4,5-trichlorotoluenes), resulting in formation of the respective benzyl alcohols. All of the chlorotoluenes subject to dioxygenation by TecA were transformed, without intermediate accumulation of dihydrodihydroxy derivatives, into the respective catechols by TecAB, indicating that dehydrogenation is no bottleneck for chlorobenzene or chlorotoluene degradation. However, only those chlorotoluenes subject to a predominant dioxygenation were growth substrates for PS12, confirming that monooxygenation is an unproductive pathway in PS12.
A large number of hydroxylated 2,3-diaryl-9H-xanthen-9-ones have been synthesised by two different approaches, starting either from 3-bromo-2-methyl-4H-chromen-4-one or from (E)-3-bromo-2-styryl-4H-chromen-4-ones. The former method involves Heck reactions between 3-bromo-2-methyl-4H-chromen-4-one and styrenes, leading to (E)-2-methyl-3-styryl-4H-chromen-4-ones; these condensed with benzaldehyde to give (E,E)-2,3-distyryl-4H-chromen-4-ones, which led to the desired 2,3-diaryl-9H-xanthen-9-ones under reflux in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. 3-Bromo-2-styryl-4H-chromen-4-ones were obtained either by aldol condensations between 3-bromo-2-methyl-4H-chromen-4-one and benzaldehydes, or through Baker–Venkataraman rearrangements of 2-acetylphenyl cinnamates, followed by one-pot bromination/cyclisation with phenyltrimethylammonium tribromide. The 2,3-diaryl-9H-xanthene-9-ones were obtained in one-pot transformations involving Heck reactions between (E)-3-bromo-2-styryl-4H-chromen-4-ones and styrenes, followed by electrocyclisation and oxidation processes. The 2,3-diaryl-3,4-dihydro-9H-xanthene-9-one intermediates were also isolated under these conditions, and so when 5-methoxy-2-styryl-4H-chromen-4-ones were used as starting materials the 1-hydroxy-6,7-diaryl-9H-xanthene-9-ones were also observed. The second method is a general one, because it allowed the synthesis of a great number of 2,3-diaryl-9H-xanthen-9-ones with several substitution patterns, whereas the first one is limited to certain derivatives. The last step in the synthesis of hydroxylated 2,3-diaryl-9H-xanthen-9-ones was the cleavage of the hydroxy protecting groups with boron tribromide. The structures and stereochemistry of all new compounds were established by NMR studies.(© Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, 69451 Weinheim, Germany, 2009)
The kinetics of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene in guppies (Poecilia reticulata) have been studied in an accumulation and elimination experiment. At a sublethal exposure, uptake and elimination rate constants of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene were determined, employing a first-order one-compartment model. The constants were found to be 492 ± 234 Lkg−1 d−1 (uptake), and 0.49 ± 0.22 d−1 (elimination) on the basis of wet weight. Exposing guppies to a time-varying lethal concentration of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene for three weeks, it was found that the model gives a satisfactorily prediction of fish residues at lethal exposures on the basis of toxicokinetic parameters determined at sublethal exposures. During the first days residues were over-estimated. This may be due to a period of immobility before fish are dying. Kinetic parameters may be lower during immobility.
Lindane is a notorious organochlorine pesticide due to its high toxicity, persistence in the environment and its tendency to bioaccumulate. A yeast strain isolated from sorghum cultivation field was able to use lindane as carbon and energy source under aerobic conditions. With molecular techniques, it was identified and named as Rhodotorula strain VITJzN03. The effects of nutritional and environmental factors on yeast growth and the biodegradation of lindane was investigated. The maximum production of yeast biomass along with 100 % lindane mineralization was noted at an initial lindane concentration of 600 mg l(-1) within a period of 10 days. Lindane concentration above 600 mg l(-1) inhibited the growth of yeast in liquid medium. A positive relationship was noted between the release of chloride ions and the increase of yeast biomass as well as degradation of lindane. The calculated degradation rate and half life of lindane were found to be 0.416 day(-1) and 1.66 days, respectively. The analysis of the metabolites using GC-MS identified the formation of seven intermediates including γ-pentachlorocyclohexane(γ-PCCH), 1,3,4,6-tetrachloro-1,4-cyclohexadiene(1,4-TCCHdiene), 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4 TCB), 1,4-dichlorobenzene (1,4 DCB), chloro-cis-1,2-dihydroxycyclohexadiene (CDCHdiene), 3-chlorocatechol (3-CC) and maleylacetate (MA) derivatives indicating that lindane degradation follows successive dechlorination and oxido-reduction. Based on the results of the present study, the possible pathway for lindane degradation by Rhodotorula sp. VITJzN03 has been proposed. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report on lindane degradation by yeast which can serve as a potential agent for in situ bioremediation of medium to high level lindane-contaminated sites.
Brine shrimp increase in length rapidly after hatching. A teratogen test system is based on disruption of elongation between 24 and 48 hr after wetting of the cysts. Teratogenicity of substances dissolved in the medium is assayed by comparison of average lengths of animals raised for the test period in suspect solution with average lengths of controls. The system is fast, inexpensive, and requires little skill. Brine shrimp are suited to testing industrial wastes, chemical formulations, drugs, and food additives that can be dissolved in water at 25 degrees C. The method appears unsuited to testing the teratogenicity of gases, particulates, very dilute wastes, or natural waters. Cadmium, mercury, lead, zinc, bromoform, n-butylphthalate, 1,2-dichloroethane, nitrobenzene, tetrachloroethylene, toluene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, and 1,1,3-trichloroethane were found teratogenic. Chromium (III), chromium (VI), copper, chlorobenzene, chloroform, dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), and phenol were found not teratogenic. Other aquatic organism teratogen test systems are surveyed.
) nanoparticles with silica via a sol-gel process using a mixture oftetraethoxysilane and triethoxyphenylsilane. The nanoparticles were characterized by SEM,energy-dispersive spectroscopy, and X-ray diffractometry. The nanoparticles were used forthe extraction of 1,4-dichlorobenzene (1,4-DCB), 1,2,3-trichlorobenzene (1,2,3-TCB), 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB), and 1,2,3,4-tetrachlorobenzene (1,2,3,4-TeCB) from water,followed by their determination by GC-electron capture detection. Under optimal condi-tions, enrichment factors ranging from 220 to 360 were obtained. All determination coef-ﬁcients (
A novel method for separating and enriching 4-chlorophenol,paradichlorobenzene,1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and hexachlorbenzene in the water samples by solvent sublation and determing them by high performance liquid chromatography has been developed.The effects of sublation solvent,pH of the solution,nitrogen flow rate and sublation time ect.The proposed method was used to determine five samples of water,the recoveries of the spiked sample were from 82.9% to 98.6%,and RSD values were from 0.82% to 3.42%.
The solubility of ethyl bromide in nitrobenzene and in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene has been measured at in the presence and absence of gallium bromide. When gallium bromide does not exist in the system, the solubility of ethyl bromide in nitrobenzene is greater than in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, indicating the stronger interaction of ethyl bromide with nitrobenzene than with 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. When there exists gallium bromide in the system, an unstable 1: 1 complex, C2H5Br·GaBr3, of gallium bromide with ethyl bromide is formed in the solution. The 1: 1 complex in solution dissociates into the components to a large extent according to one of the following equilibria or both: $C_2H_5Br{\cdot}GaBr_3{\rightleftarrows}C_2H_5Br+GaBr_3$ The stability of the 1: 1 complex of ethyl bromide with gallium bromide is compared with that of the corresponding complex of methyl bromide.
Abstract Large dumps of unused γ-hexachlorocyclohexane (γ-HCH) have become an issue of concern. The overall salinity of soil enhances due to the release of potassium cations by the insecticide in the polluted soil, which may limit microbial degradation. The current work addresses this problem through the isolation of γ-HCH degrading halophilic bacteria from HCH dumpsite using γ-HCH as a sole carbon source by selective enrichment technique. Strain LD2 was found to be the most efficient degrader, degrading 89.6% lindane in 7 days. Low amount of metabolites like 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) and 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP) were identified during the degradation. The strain was able to utilize lindane at a range of salt concentrations from 10 to 150 g L −1 NaCl where the highest degradation was achieved at 50 g L −1 of NaCl. The bacterial strain LD2 was identified as Chromohalobacter sp. LD2 on the basis of 16S rDNA sequence similarity (KU934224.1). These results revealed that Chromohalobacter sp. LD2 might be a potential candidate for bioremediation in saline environments to decontaminate γ-HCH from polluted sites.
Soil pollutin from mononuclear armatics due to fuel oil leakage has become a universal phenomenon and it is critical to precisely and efficiently determine volatile mononuclear aromatics in the soil.In Standard Method 5021 released by U.S.Environmental Protection Agency,headspace-GC-MS method is recommended to detect volatile mononuclear aromatics in the soil and the quantification library established based on aqueous solution is employed.But the accuracy of quantification results is still worth discussing.In this paper quartz sand and soil are added into the standard series to estabilish the quantification libraries and the slopes of calibration curves in the water,water-sand,water-soil are compared in order to study the matrix effect on quantification.The results indicate that,in general,the slope of mononuclear aromatics in soil matrix is less than that in quartz sand matrix,and the slope of mononuclear aromatics in water matrix is maximum.The slope of mononuclear aromatics in quartz sand matrix is approximately 1% (benzene) ～ 9% (n-butylbenzene) less than that in water matrix.Only for benzene,the slope in soil matrix can be nearly equal to that in water matrix.Other components in soil matrix have slopes which are about 9% (propyl benzene) ～ 24% (1,2,4-trichlorobenzene) less than that in water matrix.The relative slope of mononuclear aromatics in soil matrix negatively correlates to the boiling point of the compounds and the partition coefficient between octanol and water.The experiment results show that it is very critical to select suitable matrix to establish the quantification library for the calibration of soil samples.
The assumption of reversibility underpins the sorption term in current models dealing with the fate and impact of organic compounds in the environment, yet experimentally sorption of organic compounds in soils and sediments often shows "irreversible" behaviors such as hysteresis and the conditioning effect (enhanced repeat sorption). The objective of this study was to test whether a glassy polymer irreversibility model applies to natural organic matter (NOM) solids. Irreversible sorption in polymers is believed to be caused by irreversible expansion and creation of internal micropores by penetrating molecules, leading to enhanced affinity during desorption or subsequent resorption. Using chlorobenzene as a conditioning agent and polychlorinated benzenes as test compounds in a second sorption step, we observed conditioning effects for a peat soil, a soil humic acid, and a model glassy polymer, poly- (vinyl chloride), but not for a model rubbery polymer, poly- (ethylene). The conditioning effect for the two natural solids, probed bythe enhancement in the sorption distribution coefficient of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, relaxed upon sample annealing between 45 and 91 degrees C in a manner similar to the relaxation of free volume and enthalpy of glassy polymers. Relaxation of the conditioning effect in the NOM solids depended on annealing temperature and, at a given temperature, followed a double additive exponential rate law with a nonzero constant term descriptive of the final state that depends inversely on temperature. At environmentally relevant temperatures, the conditioning effect may "never" completely relax. The results provide compelling evidence for the glassy, nonequilibrium nature of natural organic matter solids and for irreversible structural expansion as a cause of irreversible sorption.
In seven successive outdoor experiments, lindane-14C was applied to lettuce or endive leaves as an aqueous formulation (about 12 mg on 20 plants for each experiment). The growing periods varied between 21 and 37 days. After this time, between 4.5% and 13.9% of the applied radiocarbon was recovered from the plants. Conversion rates to soluble metabolites as well as to unextractable residues appeared to be dependent on weather conditions. During the summer months, the radiocarbon in plants consisted of 36% soluble metabolites and of 30% unextractable residues (average of 4 experiments); in autumn, the conversion rates were much lower. The following metabolites were identified in both plant species by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry: a polar group (a free trichlorophenol, 2,3,4,6-tetrachlorophenol, pentachlorophenol, conjugates of the latter two compounds, and unidentified water-soluble products) amounting to 35% of the radioactivity in plants cultivated in summer, and a nonpolar group (a dichlorobenzene, 1,2,3-trichlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, 1,2,3,5, and/or 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene, pentachlorobenzene, hexachlorobenzene, and gamma-pentachlorocyclohexene) amounting to 1% of the radioactivity in plants cultivated in summer. The 20 cm top-soil layer had about 14% of the total radioactivity applied to all plants. Six % of the radioactivity recovered from the soil was soluble metabolites and about 50% was not extractable. The soluble metabolites comprised a polar group (free and conjugated 2,3,4,6-tetrachlorophenol, pentachlorophenol, and unidentified water soluble products) amounting to 5% of the radioactivity in the soil as well as a nonpolar group (1,2,3-trichlorobenzene, 1,2,3,4-tetrachlorobenzene, 1,2,3,5 and/or 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene, pentachlorobenzene, hexachlorobenzene, and gamma-pentachlorocyclohexene) amounting to 1% of the radioactivity in the soil.
The toxicity of 1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene(1,2,4-TCB) to adult zebrafish and embryo was studied by static test method.Several enzyme activities,such as superoxide dismutase(SOD),catalase(CAT) and alkaline phosphatase(AKP),in adult zebrafish and embryo under the exposure of different concentrate 1,2,4-TCB were detected to analyze the toxicant mechanism.Results showed that low concentrate 1,2,4-TCB(2,4,8 mg/L) had certain stress effect on SOD activity;the SOD activity in treatment groups were higher than that in control groups on 8 d post-exposure.High concentrate 1,2,4-TCB(16 mg/L) had significant inhibition effect on SOD activity.CAT activities in 4 mg/L treatment groups had significant difference with control groups during 4-10 d;CAT activities in 2,4,8 mg/L treatment groups was increased first and then decreased with prolonging the exposure time.AKP activity presented no significant difference with control group on 4 d post-exposure,while significant difference of AKP activity were found in 2 and 4 mg/L treatment groups on 8 d.The activities of AKP in 16 mg/L exposure were significantly lower than that of control groups.The zebrafish embryos exposed to 1,2,4-TCB were studied after hatching for 6 d.The proteins in embryos were no significantly activated except 3.46 mg/L treatment groups.The activities of SOD,CAT and AKP in treatment groups showed no significant difference with control groups.The embryo was more sensitive to 1,2,4-TCB than adult zebrafish.
The invention relates to a preparation method of dicamba and belongs to the technical field of preparation of herbicide dicamba. The preparation method of dicamba comprises the following technical steps of: performing directional chlorination, catalysis and melt crystallization on benzene used as a raw material so as to generate 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene; then hydrolyzing by use of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene so as to generate a 2,5-dichlorophenol and 2,4-dichlorophenol mixture; then separating and purifying so as to obtain 2,5-dichlorophenol; preparing 3,6-dichlorosalicylic acid by use of 2,5-dichlorophenol; and performing methylation, saponification and acidification reaction on 3,6-dichlorosalicylic acid so as to obtain dicamba. By virtue of optimization of technical steps and parameters, the whole preparation process is simple, the cost is low, the yield is high, the selectivity is high, the wastewater quantity is obviously reduced, and the equipment utilization ratio is improved.
Sorption isotherms of chlorobenzene,1,4-dichlorobenzene,1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene on 5 sediments were examined to understand its sorption behavior.All systems examined exhibits nonlinear sorption.All sorption isotherms are nonlinear as evidenced by the Freundlich n values of 5 sediments being between 0.858 to 0.956.Sorption nonlinearity is found to be a function of the polarity index of sediments natural organic matter(NOM) with a high correlative coefficient of(0.994?7),suggesting that the degree of condensation of NOM,characterized by its polarity index,is correlated with the sorption behavior of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene.In addition,the sorption affinity(K_(oc)) of the sediments for 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene increases with decreasing of NOM polar,indicating that a higher sorption affinity in the sediments is associated with a higher degree of condensation of NOM.The Freundlich n values of chlorobenzene, 1,4-dichlorobenzene,1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene are 0.755,0.788,0.858,0.949 respectively,indicating that the smaller CBs molecule may result in more significant sorption nonlinearity.
The coordination number of the gadolinium atom and bond distances in the crystal of monomeric porphyrinate, [Gd(TPP)acac·8H2O·3TCB] (TCB: 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, acac: anion of acetylacetone), were determined by EXAFS method. The Gd atom is eight-coordinated to the four nitrogen atoms of a tetraphenylporphyrin ring, to the two oxygen atoms of one acetylacetonato anion and to two water molecules with Gd—N=0.232 nm, Gd—O=0.243 nm.
[Objective] To study the mechanisms of toxicity of chlorobenzenes on aquatic organisms so as to provide a scientific basis on selection of toxicological doses and toxicological endpoints for further experimental study.[Methods] The chlorobenzenes studied in our experiment included chlorobenzene,o-dichlorobenzene,m-dichlorobenzene,p-dichlorobenzene,and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene.The zebrafish embryos were used to test their individual acute toxicities.In this experiment we used 24 wells cell culture plate as the embryonic exposure experiment container.The exposed embryos were observed under microscope every 4 h,chlorinated benzene compounds on zebrafish embryos,including lethal effects and sublethal effects were recorded,and the changes in the corresponding toxicological endpoints were described,until the end of 72 h.[Results] The EC50 values of all toxicological endpoints of chlorinated benzene compounds were measured experimentally,for example,4 h embryonic development of the termination of EC50 values(mg/L)were:24.72 for 2,4-trichlorobenzenes,76.47 for p-dichlorobenzene,77.35 for m-dichlorobenzene,86.31 for o-dichlorodebenzene,89.43 for chlorobenzene and so on.The results showed that the embryotoxicities of chlorobenzenes decreased in the order as:1,2,4-trichlorobenzenesp-dichlorobenzenem-dichlorobenzeneo-dichlorodebenzenechlorobenzene.[Conclusion] The toxicity of chlorobenzenes on zebrafish was correlated with their molecular weight,number and position of substituting groups.The greater of molecular weight and the number of substituents,the severer of their toxicity.
Dehalobacter sp. strain TeCB1 was isolated from groundwater near Sydney, Australia that is polluted with a range of organochlorines. The isolated strain is able to grow by reductive dechlorination of 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene to 1,3- and 1,4-dichlorobenzene with 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene being the intermediate daughter product. Transient production of 1,2-dichlorobenzene was detected with subsequent conversion to monochlorobenzene. The dehalogenation capability of strain TeCB1 to respire 23 alternative organochlorines was examined and shown to be limited to the use of 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. Growth on 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene resulted in the production of predominantly 1,3- and 1,4-dichlorobenzene. The inability of strain TeCB1 to grow on 1,2-dichlorobenzene indicated that the production of monochlorobenzene during growth on 1,2,4,5-tetarchlorobezene was cometabolic. The annotated genome of strain TeCB1 contained only one detectable 16S rRNA gene copy and genes for 23 full-length and one truncated Reductive Dehalogenase (RDase) homologs, five unique to strain TeCB1. Identification and functional characterization of the 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene RDase (TcbA) was achieved using native-PAGE coupled with liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry and. Interestingly, TcbA showed higher amino acid identity with tetrachloroethene reductases PceA (95% identity) from Dehalobacter restrictus PER-K23 and Desulfitobacterium hafniense Y51 than with the only other chlorinated benzene reductase (i.e. CbrA (30% identity)) functionally characterized to date.
Abstract Excess volumes (V E ), isentropic compressibilities (κ s ) and excess isentropic compressibilities (κ s E ) for the binary mixtures of {1,2-dichlorobenzene, 1,3-dichlorobenzene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene with 1-nonanol} at temperature range from 298.15 to 308.15 K and at atmospheric pressure were derived from experimental density (ρ) and ultrasonic speed (u) data. The measured excess properties were correlated with the Redlich–Kister Polynomial equation. The calculated excess properties were discussed in terms of molecular interactions between dichloro/trichlorobenzenes and 1-nonanol molecules. Furthermore, the measured data were also analyzed with Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR) spectroscopy since FT-IR is a powerful tool to get information regarding the existence of molecular interactions between component molecules.
Linear polyethylene and isotactic polypropylene standards were injected into columns which contained MFI (SH-300 and silicalite) or faujasite (CBV-780) type zeolites. 1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene, cyclohexanone, 2-ethyl-hexanol, decalin and tetralin were used as mobile phases at 140 degrees C. It was found that polyethylene is fully retained on zeolite SH-300 when decalin is used as a mobile phase. Moreover, polyethylene is partially retained on zeolite SH-300 from tetralin and from 1,2,4-tichlorobenzene, on silicalite from decalin and in a very small extent on zeolite CBV-780 from decalin. Using all other solvents, polyethylene and polypropylene were not retained in any of the columns tested. This is the first experimental observation of polyethylene adsorption from a solvent on a chromatographic stationary phase.
Electron transfer (ELT) and energy transfer (ENT) from the higher excited triplet state (Tn) (n > 1) of various naphthalene derivatives (NpDs) to some polychlorobenzenes (CBs) such as chlorobenzene, 1,4-dichlorobenzene, and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene were examined. It is confirmed that the ELT process from the NpDs (Tn) to CBs obeys Marcus's theory from the driving force dependence of the ELT yield. This is the first example of the Marcus-type ELT from the Tn state. As a competitive process of the ELT, the ENT from NpDs (Tn) to CBs giving the higher excited state of CBs (Tn) (NpD (Tn) + CB (S0) → NpD (S0) + CB (Tn)) was observed although a part of CBs (Tn) decomposed by the C−Cl bond dissociation giving chlorocyclohexadienyl radical and chloride radical. This is also the first example of intermolecular ENT from molecules in the Tn state to quenchers giving the quenchers in the Tn state.
New syntheses of acridin-9(10 H)-oneswere developed. One involves a two-step transformation, namely theDiels-Alder -reactions of ( E)-1-methyl-2-styrylquinolin-4(1 H)-ones with N-methylmaleimidein refluxing toluene, followed by oxidation of the formed adducts.The second consists in an one-pot procedure using 1,2,4-trichlorobenzeneas solvent at 180 ˚C. The effect of microwave irraditionand Lewis acid catalysts in these cycloaddition -reactionswas also investigated.
Toxic effects of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) on Scenedesmus obliquus were studied through investigating the growth, the content of protein and the content of chlorophyll. The toxic mechanisms of 1,2,4-TCB were analyzed by determining the SOD and POD activities, the content of MDA and TOC in the algae. The growth of algae was inhibited by 1,2,4-TCB in time-response and dose-response manners. Compared with the control, the content of soluble protein in S. obliquus decreased by 62.89% and 80.22%, respectively, after treated with 10 mg·L-1 and 15 mg·L-1 1,2,4-TCB. The contents of chlorophyll a, b and total chlorophyll, especially the content of the chlorophyll a, decreased significantly when treated with 1,2,4-TCB for 4 d. The activities of SOD and POD decreased 40.57% and 77.42% than those of the control, respectively. The content of MDA increased in dose-response manners. Furthermore, the content of TOC in the culture with 10 mg·L-1 and 15 mg·L-1 1,2,4-TCB increased 57.95% and 72.55%, respectively. These results suggested that 1,2,4-TCB affected the physiological activities of S. obliquus, and the toxic mechanism was related to the permeability of cellular membrane and the lipidperoxidation of other organic macromolecules of S. obliquus cells.
In this study, 45 ambient samples were collected in the summer of 2011 and spring of 2012 on Mount Lushan. The concentrations and seasonal distributions of aromatic hydrocarbons and halocarbons were measured and discussed. Moderate concentrations of individual species were found compared with other mountain sites; however, the measured concentrations were much lower than the values reported in cities. For aromatic hydrocarbons, benzene and m/p-xylene were the most abundant species in the spring, while benzene and toluene exhibited the largest contributions in the summer. For halocarbons, the concentrations of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, dichlorodifluoromethane and chloromethane were higher than other gases measured in the spring; and dichlorodifluoromethane and chloromethane contributed largest in the summer. The OH loss rates demonstrated that 1,3,5-trimethylbenzene and 1,2,4-trimethylbenzene were the dominant aromatic hydrocarbons for OH loss rates in the spring, while styrene and toluene contributed the largest to reactivity in the summer. For the ozone formation potential (OFP), 1,2,4-trimethylbenzene and m/p-xylene accounted for the largest fraction of the OFPs in the spring (24.3% and 23.7%), while toluene was the most abundant source of OFP (i.e., 43.7%) in the summer. M/p-xylene exhibited large contributions to OFP in both spring and summer (23.7% and 19.2%) of the OFPs. The T/B (0.80 and 0.73 in spring and summer respectively) ratios indicated that the sampled air masses were primarily influenced by automotive emissions. The 36-h backward trajectories of the sampled air masses and the corresponding daily concentrations of individual species suggested that long-range transport had a large effect on the atmosphere at the sampling site.
Achieving the full control over the production as well as processability of high-quality graphene represents a major challenge with potential interest in the field of fabrication of multifunctional devices. The outstanding effort dedicated to tackle this challenge in the last decade revealed that certain organic molecules are capable of leveraging the exfoliation of graphite with different efficiencies. Here, a fundamental understanding on a straightforward supramolecular approach for producing homogenous dispersions of unfunctionalized and non-oxidized graphene nanosheets in four different solvents is attained, namely N-methyl-2-pyrrolidinone, N,N-dimethylformamide, ortho-dichlorobenzene, and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. In particular, a comparative study on the liquid-phase exfoliation of graphene in the presence of linear alkanes of different lengths terminated by a carboxylic-acid head group is performed. These molecules act as graphene dispersion-stabilizing agents during the exfoliation process. The efficiency of the exfoliation in terms of concentration of exfoliated graphene is found to be proportional to the length of the employed fatty acid. Importantly, a high percentage of single-layer graphene flakes is revealed by high-resolution transmission electron microscopy and Raman spectroscopy analyses. A simple yet effective thermodynamic model is developed to interpret the chain-length dependence of the exfoliation yield. This approach relying on the synergistic effect of a ad-hoc solvent and molecules to promote the exfoliation of graphene in liquid media represents a promising and modular strategy towards the rational design of improved dispersion-stabilizing agents.
A new, simple and sensitive method was developed for the determination of silicon tetrahydride in the air of workplace in this study. The alkaline resin-based spherical activated carbon was used to collect sample of silicon tetrahydride at workplace. Silicon tetrahydride was then desorbed from active carbon in 100°C hot water. After reacting with ammonium molybdate, oxalic acid and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene alpha-naphthol amino sulfonic acid under acid condition, silicon tetrahydride was transformed into silicon molybdenum blue. The absorbance of silicon molybdenum blue was quantitatively measured at the wavelength of 680 nm. The results showed that the average sampling efficiency and desorption efficiency were 97.53% and 94.94%, respectively by this method. Detection limits were 0.054 μg/mL for the spectrophotometric method and 0.14 mg/m3 for the determination of silicon tetrahydride in the air of workplace (sampling volume was 7.5 L). The conversion rate of silicon tetrahydride gradually decreased when storage time of samples was extended. The descent rate of sample was less than 10% when the sample was sealed for 7 days in the room temperature. It was concluded that this spectrophotometric method can be successfully used to determine silicon tetrahydride in the worksites.
Semicrystalline aromatic poly(ether ketone)s are an industrially-important class of high-performance thermoplastics with outstanding physico-chemical properties. 1, 2 For example, PEEK (Chart 1) is widely used in situations that require thermo-oxidative and mechanical stability at high temperatures, or in contact with organic solvents, and it finds increasing application as a matrix polymer in carbon-fibre composites for aerospace applications. 3 However, the very resistance to dissolution of such materials is a major obstacle to their detailed characterization, so that a full understanding of the relationship between properties and structure at the molecular level is often difficult to achieve. Gel-permeation chromatographic analysis of PEEK and some related semi-crystalline poly(ether ketone)s may be carried out in a mixture of phenol and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, 4, 5, 6, 7 but this technique requires a combination of high column temperatures (typically >115 °C) and corrosive/hazardous solvents, so that relatively specialized GPC systems are required. An alternative approach to the characterization of poly(ether ketone)s, for example by GPC or light scattering, would be to convert the polymer, without degrading its molecular weight or changing its polydispersity, to an amorphous and therefore more soluble chemical derivative. For example, PEEK may be sulfonated at the hydroquinone residue simply by dissolving it at ambient temperature in concentrated (96-98%) sulfuric acid, and the resulting, amorphous, polysulfonate ionomer is soluble in dipolar aprotic solvents. 8, 9 Lithium salts of sulfonated PEEK can then be analyzed by roomtemperature GPC in N-methylpyrrolidone. 10 However this approach is limited, in that many potentially important poly(ether ketone)s such as PEK, PEKEKK and PEKK (Chart 1) are not sulfonated under such conditions (since every ring carries at least one deactivating carbonyl group), and so cannot be characterized by this method. We have recently reported a more general methodology which depends on derivatization of the carbonyl groups by converting these to cyclic dithioketal units in the presence of an alkanedithiol and boron trifluoride, using strong-acid solvents such as chloroform/trifluoroacetic acid mixtures to dissolve the starting polymer. 11, 12 Here we report a different but related approach to the problem, in which we show that semicrystalline aromatic poly(ether ketone)s, including PEEK, can be converted cleanly to amorphous, soluble poly(ether imine)s by reaction with low-volatility aralkyl amines at high temperatures.
In this study, 45 ambient samples were collected in the summer of 2011 and spring of 2012 on Mount Lushan. The concentrations and seasonal distributions of aromatic hydrocarbons and halocarbons were measured and discussed. Moderate concentrations of individual species were found compared with other mountain sites; however, the measured concentrations were much lower than the values reported in cities. For aromatic hydrocarbons, benzene and m/p-xylene were the most abundant species in the spring, while benzene and toluene exhibited the largest contributions in the summer. For halocarbons, the concentrations of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, dichlorodifluoromethane and chloromethane were higher than other gases measured in the spring; and dichlorodifluoromethane and chloromethane contributed largest in the summer. The OH loss rates demonstrated that 1,3,5-trimethylbenzene and 1,2,4-trimethylbenzene were the dominant aromatic hydrocarbons for OH loss rates in the spring, while styrene and toluene contributed the largest to reactivity in the summer. For the ozone formation potential (OFP), 1,2,4-trimethylbenzene and m/p-xylene accounted for the largest fraction of the OFPs in the spring (24.3% and 23.7%), while toluene was the most abundant source of OFP (i.e., 43.7%) in the summer. M/p-xylene exhibited large contributions to OFP in both spring and summer (23.7% and 19.2%) of the OFPs. The T/B (0.80 and 0.73 in spring and summer respectively) ratios indicated that the sampled air masses were primarily influenced by automotive emissions. The 36-h backward trajectories of the sampled air masses and the corresponding daily concentrations of individual species suggested that long-range transport had a large effect on the atmosphere at the sampling site.
Moiré patterns, i.e. the expression of a superperiodicity upon the superposition of two periodic structures, are abundant and can even be observed in daily life. Particularly in surface science, moiré patterns play an important role for epitaxy, when a periodic adsorbate structure grows on a crystalline substrate. True epitaxy implies congruence of adsorbate and substrate lattice at the unit cell level. However, often this strict criterion cannot be met, and one possible alternative is the formation of a higher order superstructure that can be accompanied by a moiré pattern. Experimentally, these moiré patterns can be observed in reciprocal space by low energy electron diffraction (LEED) and other diffraction techniques, or more directly in real space by high resolution scanning tunneling microscopy (STM). Moiré patterns occur in diverse epitaxial system such as sulfur, noble gas or halogen monolayers, [1] [2] [3] for graphene and hexagonal boron-nitride (h-BN) monolayers on crystalline supports, 4-8 but also for selfassembled molecular monolayers. [9] [10] [11] [12] Even the surface of pristine graphite can already show moiré patterns caused by rotational misalignment of the topmost layer. An important distinction of moiré patterns is between commensurate and incommensurate. Commensurate moiré patterns are strictly periodic and originate from the coincidence of adsorbate and substrate lattice at some point. On the other hand, even in the absence of any coincidence incommensurate moiré patterns can emerge. Albeit not strictly periodic, incommensurate moiré patters exhibit defined spatial beating frequencies. Although this allows definition of a moiré lattice, the corresponding unit cells are not equivalent. Graphene grown by chemical vapour deposition on transition metal surfaces is a versatile example, where both types of moiré patterns are observed, for instance incommensurate on Cu(111) 8 and commensurate on Ru(0001). 4 Especially for very large moiré unit cells, the experimental distinction between commensurate and incommensurate moirés can become challenging, if not impossible. More complex epitaxial systems can also show a combination with commensurate domains separated by incommensurate soliton walls. 7, 14 Commensurate moiré patterns can be viewed as actual superstructures and accordingly be described by a unit cell and a lattice defined through base translation vectors é and é . These are simultaneously lattice vectors of both adsorbate and substrate lattice: Moiré patterns were subject of many experimental and theoretical studies over the last decades, and their emergence in the context of graphene and other 2D materials has led to a renaissance. An interesting, but understudied model system for moiré patterns are self-assembled molecular monolayers on crystalline surfaces. The present contribution focusses on weakly interacting graphite surfaces, where moiré patterns are more commonly observed than on metal surfaces. In addition, straightforward experiments can be carried out at liquid-solid interfaces: Molecules are dissolved in appropriate dielectric solvents (e.g. phenyloctane, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, alkanoic acids, etc.) and the solution is then applied to inert substrates, mostly graphite. In most cases, STM is used for characterization in facile experiments, where the tip is directly immersed into solution. [15] [16] [17] [18] However, moiré patterns are more than just a peculiar phenomenon, and profound insights can be obtained from their detailed analysis. As a result of the subtle balance between molecule-molecule and molecule-surface interactions, moiré patterns can provide evidence on the relative strength of intermolecular and surface potential. Moreover, the moiré structure parameters can be utilized to determine adsorbate lattice parameters with unprecedented precision, exceeding that of standard STM measurements by orders of magnitude. 12, 19 These precise and reliable data can serve as pivotal benchmark for structure simulations. The moiré patterns of molecular adlayers exhibit important differences in comparison to graphene or h-BN: lattice parameter differences between molecular adlayers and surface are typically large, whereas graphene ( ) and its supports feature almost similar lattice parameters (e.g.
We explore both experimentally and theoretically the conductance and packing of molecular junctions based on oligo(phenyleneethynylene) (OPE) diamine wires, when a series of functional groups are incorporated into the wires. Using the scanning tunnelling microscopy break-junction (STM BJ) technique, we study these compounds in two environments (air and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene) and explore different starting molecular concentrations. We show that the electrical conductance of the molecular junctions exhibits variations among different compounds, which are significant at standard concentrations but become unimportant when working at a low enough concentration. This shows that the main effect of the functional groups is to affect the packing of the molecular wires, rather than to modify their electrical properties. Our theoretical calculations consistently predict no significant changes in the conductance of the wires due to the electronic structure of the functional groups, although their ability to hinder r...
The effect of solvent mixtures on the morphologies of poly[N-9'-hepta-decanyl-2,7-carbazole-alt-5,5-(4',7'-di-2-thienyl-2',1',3'-benzothiadiazole)] (PCDTBT):[6,6]-phenyl C-71-butyric acid methyl ester (PC71BM) blend films is investigated. 1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene (TCB) which is a good solvent for PCDTBT is selected to mix with chloroform (CF), chlorobenzene (CB) and o-dichlorobenzene (oDCB) for tuning the morphology of the PCDTBT:PC71BM blend. It is found that formation of nanoscale phase separation with a fibrillar PCDTBT nanostructure of PCDTBT:PC71BM blend which is favorable for exciton separation and charge carrier transport is strongly dependent on the solubility parameters of the solvent mixtures. A clearly defined nanoscale phase separation of the PCDTBT:PC71BM blend can be obtained with TCB:CF mixture. The resulted morphology is similar to that produced with sole DCB solvent that is currently the best solvent for PCDTBT:PC71BM blend solar cells. Moreover, the TCB:CF mixture demonstrates better solubility and processibility for PCDTBT:PC71BM blend and allows us to prepare thick active layer that is required in large-area roll-to-roll process. The polymer solar cells with 250 nm- thick active layer are fabricated by using TCB:CF solvent mixture and the power conversion efficiency of the devices reaches 6.45%. A highest short-circuit current of 13.6 mA/cm(2) is achieved due to enhanced optical absorption of thick active layer. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In this review, the second in a series, the viscosity-molecular weight (MarkHouwink-Sakurada) relationships have been critically evaluated for atactic polystyrene for a variety of solvents often used for viscosity measurements. These are benzene, toluene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, tetrahydrofuran, o-dichlorobenzene, 2-butanone, and two theta solvents, cyclohexane and decalin. In addition, the Mark-Houwink-Sakurada parameters for several other solvents. not used as frequently, are provided.
The data for seven commonly used solvents have been evaluated, and for each a recommended relation between intrinsic viscosity ([1] ]) and molecular weight is given. In the case of both benzene and toluene, a quadratic relation rather than a linear one is suggested for log[ 1]] versus log M. The other solvents are 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, o-dichlorobenzene. 2-butanone. tetrahydrofuran. and cyc1ohexane. The last is a theta solvent.
In addition to a possible effect on the electronic transmission of the compound, long substituent groups such as alkoxys are known to promote intermolecular interactions by chain interdigitation (see Hoeben et al 36 and references therein). This effect can promote junctions with a large number of wired molecules, which will subsequently display higher conductances. In order to separate steric from electronic effects, we performed experiments using different environments (air and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene), as the environment has proved to be a relevant in some cases. [37] [38] [39] We also explored different concentrations of the molecule in solution, which is a parameter mostly overlooked for this kind of experiment. 40 We included in the study a compound with long alkyl groups, for which we expect steric influence similar to that of alkoxy groups, but no significant effect on the energies and charge distributions of the OPE molecular orbitals.
Using high-pressure liquid chromatography with ultraviolet-visible (UV) diode-array and mass spectrometric detection, we have analyzed the supercritical pyrolysis products of toluene and of a Fischer-Tropsch synthetic jet fuel. Three polycyclic hydrocarbons, dibenzo[b,ghi]perylene, 8H-dibenzo[a,jk]pyrene, and benzo[pqr]dinaphtho[8,1,2-bcd:2′,1′,8′-lmn]perylene have been unequivocally identified among the products. First, the mass spectra established the families of the unknown compounds as C26H14, C23H14, and C34H16. Next, the experimental UV absorption spectra of the three products, each obtained in either acetonitrile/dichloromethane or dichloromethane, were compared, respectively, to the published UV spectra of standards of the C26H14 dibenzo[b,ghi]perylene, in ethanol and benzene; the C23H14 8H-dibenzo[a,jk]pyrene, in benzene; and the C34H16 benzo[pqr]dinaphtho[8,1,2-bcd:2′,1′,8′-lmn]perylene, in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. Small differences (of a few nm) between the UV spectra of each product/reference-s...
Abstract Nine new mixed rare earth triple-decker complexes M 2 [TO(OH)PP](Pc) 2 [M = La…Dy, except Pm; H 2 Por = 5-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-10,15,20-tris(4-octyloxyphenyl)porphyrin] have been prepared by treating M(acac)[TO(OH)PP] with corresponding homoleptic unsubstituted bis(phthalocyaninato) rare earth complexes M(Pc) 2 in refluxing 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB). The origin of the electronic absorptions of these triple-decker complexes was tentatively revealed. For M 2 III [TO(OH)PP](Pc) 2 ], typical IR marker bands for the unsubstituted phthalocyanine dianion Pc 2− are strong bands at 1327–1329 cm −1 , and a weak band around 1370–1383 cm −1 . They can be assigned to pyrrole C C stretchings. Under excitation at 632.8 nm, typical Raman marker bands of the phthalocyanine dianions Pc 2− were observed at 1514–1526 cm −1 as medium band, resulting from the coupling of pyrrole C C and aza C N stretchings. The IR and Raman spectra for Ce 2 [TO(OH)PP](Pc) 2 are very slightly different from those of their other rare earth(III) counterparts. The nine complexes were also characterized by EA, MS and UV–vis spectra.
A hydroponic experiment was carried out to study the effects of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene(1,2,4-TCB) on physiological characteristics of Hydrocotyle vulgarisl.The changes of chlorophyll,carotenoid,soluble protein and malondialdehyde(MDA) contents and the activities of antioxidant enzymes such as superoxide dismutase(SOD),catalase(CAT) and peroxidase(POD) were determined.The results showed that the physiological indics of Hydrocotyle vulgarisl changed in a concentration-dependent and time-dependent manner with low concentrations of 1,2,4-TCB(5,10 mg · L-1) treatment,but there was no statistically significant difference between the control group and the treatment group.Total chlorophyll,chlorophyll a/b and soluble proteins all rose first and then fell with treatment time.The content of MDA first increased then decreased with the treatment time,and showed positive correlation with treatment concentration.Activity of SOD and POD first boosted and then declined with treatment time,and the trend with concentration was similar,up first then down.In contrast,activity of CAT changed insignificantly during the experiment.The maximum activity of antioxidant enzymes all reached 10 mg · L-1 during 4—6 d treatment.In high concentration treatment groups(15,20 mg · L-1),activity of every antioxidant enzyme decreased significantly compared to the control,and showed statistical differences among the groups.
Abstract The use of lindane (γ-1,2,3,4,5,6-hexachlorocyclohexane) for the protection of stored wheat grain against insects leads to the contamination of milled flour with residues. The fate of lindane residues in wheat flour under normal conditions of bread making was studied with the 14 C-labeled compound. About 75 to 82% of the radioactivity in wheat flour was retained by the baked bread and 94% of this was present as lindane. γ-PCCH, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and three isomers of tetrachlorobenzene were tentatively identified as degradation products in the bread. In view of the fact that more than 72% of the lindane in flour may be retained by baked bread, the desirability of using lindane for stored grain protection should be re-examined.
Abstract Many chemicals utilized by humans are present as environmental pollutants and may influence homeostasis from neurological, immunological, endocrinological and/or behavioral aspects. Such agents, acting alone or in ambient mixtures, may be biologically active even at extremely low doses, and it may be postulated that stable, bioaccumulative, reactive endorine disruptors may affect central and/or peripheral secretion of arginine–vasopressin (AVP) and oxytocin (OXT) and thereby related physiological and behavioral functions, potentially leading to disorders in exposed subjects. The primary aim of this study was to demonstrate effects of chronic exposure to a low dose of an orally administered chlorobenzene mixture on anxiety-related and aggressive behavior mediated largely by AVP and OXT. Chlorobenzenes were applied to model ambient mixtures of endocrine disruptors. Adult, male Wistar rats were exposed daily to 0.1 μg/kg of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and hexachlorobenzene via a stomach tube for 30, 60 or 90 days, after which anxiety-related and aggressive behavioral elements were examined in open-field, elevated plus maze and resident–intruder tests. The plasma levels of AVP, OXT and adrenocorticotrophic hormone at the endpoints were measured by radioimmunoassay or immunochemiluminescence assay. The levels of basal and serotonin- or norepinephrine-stimulated AVP and OXT secretion in pituicyte cultures prepared from the posterior lobe of the pituitaries were also measured. The hormone levels proved to be increased to extents depending on the duration of exposure to the chlorobenzenes. Several anxiety-related and aggressive behavioral elements were also enhanced following chlorobenzene exposure, while certain explorative and locomotive elements of the animals were decreased. As both physiological and behavioral elements were modulated by chronic, subtoxic doses of chlorobenzenes, it is concluded that doses of such environmental pollutants low enough to fall outside the range of legal regulation may pose potential risks of anxiogenic and/or aggressive consequences in exposed subjects, including humans.
Self-assembled monolayers of a series of tetraalkoxy-substituted octadehydrodibenzo[12]annulene (DBA) derivatives 1c-g possessing butadiyne linkages were studied at the 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) or 1-phenyloctane/graphite interface by scanning tunneling microscopy (STM). The purpose of this research is not only to investigate the structural variation of two-dimensional (2D) monolayers, but also to assess a possibility for peri-benzopolyacene formation by two-dimensionally controlled polymerization on a surface. As a result, the formation of three structures, porous, linear, and lamella structures, were observed by changing the alkyl chain length and the solute concentration. The formation of multilayers of the lamella structure was often observed for all compounds. The selection of molecular networks is basically ascribed to intermolecular and molecule-substrate interactions per unit area and network density. The selective appearance of the linear structure of 1d is attributed to favorable epitaxial registry matching between the substrate lattice and the overlayer lattice. Even though the closest interatomic distance between the diacetylenic units of the DBAs in the lamella structure (approximately 0.6 nm) is slightly larger compared to the typical distances necessary for topochemical polymerization, the reactivity toward external stimuli (electronic-pulse irradiation from an STM tip and UV irradiation) was investigated. Unfortunately, no evidence for polymerization of the DBAs on the surface was observed. The present results indicate the necessity for further designing a suitable system for the on-surface construction of structurally novel conjugated polymers, which are otherwise difficult to prepare.
It is well known the great biological relevance of oxygen and nitrogen heterocycles. Herein, the reactivity of 2-(4-aryl-1,3-dienand 1-en-3yn-1-yl)chromones are explored in order to establish new synthetic routes towards the preparation of new heterocyclic compounds such as xanthones and triazoles. The reactive sites of the starting chromone derivatives (the double and triple bonds) allow them to be involved in reactions such as DielsAlder and Huisgen cycloadditions. These reactions are used separately or subsequently in order to prepare new biologically active compounds emphasizing the synthetic potential of the referred chromone derivatives. Using these new synthetic routes we were able to develop new compounds, such xanthones bearing triazole moiety, which are expected to enclosure interesting biological properties. Oxygen and nitrogen heterocyclic compounds, such as xanthones and triazoles, have great importance in life and science because of their numerous applications. Xanthones are very appellative compounds to medicinal chemists because of their pronounced biological activity within a notably broad spectrum of disease states, as a result of their interaction with a correspondingly diverse range of target biomolecules. Regarding the triazoles, its substituted derivatives are best known as antifungals. Actually, the most common antifungals in the market are indeed triazole derivatives. As consequence of this remarkable potential, new synthetic strategies are being developed in order to synthesize new xanthone and triazole derivatives. Herein, we are presenting two versatile molecules which can be used as synthons towards the synthesis of xanthone and/or triazole derivatives. Chromone derivatives 1a-e and 2a-e are useful synthons to synthesize other heterocyclic compounds, and are prepared through the aldol condensation of methylchromone with the appropriate α,β-unsaturated aldehydes (Scheme 1). 2-(4-Arylbuta-1,3-diene)chromones 1a-e are transformed in 1-arylxanthones 3a-e by refluxing them in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. The single bonds of the conjugated double bond system of 2-(4-arylbuta-1,3-diene)chromones 1a-e are able to rotate under strongly energetic conditions (high temperature), and undergo electrocyclization and oxidation processes to afford the desired 1-arylxanthone derivatives 3a-e (Scheme 2). The yields were worst in the cases of derivatives with electron-withdrawing substituents. Scheme 1: Synthesis of chromone derivatives 1 and 2; Conditions: (i) CH3COCl, pyridine, rt, 1h; (ii) NaH, THF, reflux, 2h; (iii) p-TSA, DMSO, 100oC, 2h; (iv) Na, EtOH, rt, 4h; a) R=H, b) R=OMe; c) R=Me; d) R=Br; e) R=NO2 Helio Albuquerque,a Clementina M. M. Santos,a,b Artur M. S. Silva,a Jose A. S. Cavaleiroa aDepartment of Chemistry, QOPNA, University of Aveiro, 3810-193 Aveiro, Portugal bDepartment of Vegetal Production and Technology, School of Agriculture, Polytechnic Institute of Braganca, 5301-855 Braganca, Portugal Scheme 2: Synthesis of xanthone derivatives 3; Conditions: (i) I2, 1,2,4-TCB, reflux, 48h; a) R=H, b) R=OMe; c) R=Me; d) R=Br; e) R=NO2 Scheme 3: Synthesis of xanthone and triazole derivatives 4-6; Conditions: (i) NaN3, DMF, reflux, 2h; (ii) N-methylmaleimide, DMF, MW, 170oC, 40min; a) R=H, b) R=OMe; c) R=Me; d) R=Br; e) R=NO2 References Kye-Simeon Masters, Stefan Brase, (2012), Xanthones from Fungi, Lichens, and Bacteria: The Natural Products and Their Synthesis, Chem. Rev., 112, 3717-3776 Catia I. C. Esteves, Clementina M. M. Santos, Cristela M. Brito, Artur M. S. Silva, Jose A. S. Cavaleiro, (2011), Synthesis of novel 1-Aryl-9H-xanthe-9-ones, Synlett, 1403-1406 2-(4-Arylbuta-1-en-3-yn-1-yl)chromones 2a-e, have two important reactive sites (the diene system and the triple bond), which can be used separately to synthesize xanthones, 1,2,3-triazoles and xanthones bearing a 1,2,3-triazole moiety. Taking advantage of the triple bond and exploring the Huisgen cycloaddition reaction with sodium azide we are able to synthesize triazole derivatives 4a-e (Scheme 3) bearing aryl and chromone substituents, in almost quantitative yields. Once again, the derivatives with electron-withdrawing substituents gave worst results. The Diels-Alder reaction of N-methylmaleimide and the dienic system of chromones 2a-e afforded tetrahydroxanthones, which under further oxidation provided the xanthone derivatives 5a-e (Scheme 3). Contrary to the previous reactions, the effect of electron-withdrawing substituents did not has particular relevance in this reaction. In chromones 2a-e, it is possible to explore two different reactions (Diels-Alder and Huisgen cycloaddition) towards the synthesis of xanthones and 1,2,3-triazoles. Therefore, if we use the two reactions subsequently, in order words, Diels-Alder reactions to prepare xanthones 5a-e and Huisgen cycloadditions to obtain triazoles 4a- e, we can obtain pyrroloxanthones bearing a 1,2,3-triazole moiety 6a-e (Scheme 3). The structures of the obtained compounds were elucidated by using 1D and 2D NMR techniques. Conclusion In this work we established new synthetic routes towards the synthesis of new heterocyclic compounds, emphasising the synthetic potential of the previous mentioned chromone derivatives 1 and 2. We observed an electron-withdrawing substituent effect in the electrocyclization reaction and in Huisgen cycloaddition, however, this effect was not detected in Diels-Alder reactions. The newly complex synthesized structures evidence the synthetic potential of the referred chromone derivatives. Acknowledgements Thanks are due to the University of Aveiro, the Portuguese Fundacao para a Ciencia e a Tecnologia (FCT), EU, QREN, FEDER and COMPETE for funding the Organic Chemistry Research Unit (project PEst-C/QUI/UI0062/2013), and the Portuguese National NMR Network (RNRMN). Helio Albuquerque also thanks FCT for his PhD grant (SFRH/BD/86277/2012).
A hybrid disklike/rodlike molecule comprising central triphenylene core symmetrically substituted with six azobenzene moieties (C-12) has been adsorbed at the 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene/Au(111) interface, revealing the potential of azobenzene moieties for the control of two-dimensional (2D) chiral networks. The C-12, which due to its complex molecular structure possesses a relatively large number of degrees of freedom, surprisingly forms monolayers of only one kind of structure, namely a hexagonal network of large period, 3.5 nm. By combining scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) and DFT calculations, we evidence that this specific 2D-ordering is due to cooperative weak hydrogen bonds between neighboring azobenzenes and azobenzene-Au(111) interactions. The crystallographic network is hexagonal, but azobenzene-azobenzene pairing, associated with hydrogen bonding renders the network chiral with a chirality spanning all ranges, from the molecular C-12 configuration, to the configuration of the azobenzene dimers, t...
Sorption of hydrophobic compounds in soils often shows nonlinearity, competition, and hysteresis. Since such behaviors have been associated with organic polymers in glassy state, it has been postulated that some forms of soil humic substances are glassy. The glassy state is favored by properties that decrease the flexibility of macromolecules, such as cross-linking, presence of unsaturated bonds, and high molecular weight. Polyvalent metal ions, which are abundant in soils, may cross-link humic substances by coordinating to multiple functional groups on different strands. Accordingly, we prepared an Al(3+)-cross-linked humic acid (Al-HA) from the H(+) form (H-HA) of a soil humic acid by a flocculation technique that leaves Al ions bound to organic groups. Sorption of naphthalene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) on H-HA was nonlinear, competitive, and slightly hysteretic, in agreement with previous studies showing glass transition temperatures of humic acids that lie above room temperature. Nonlinearity, competition, and hysteresis were all enhanced in Al-HA, validating the hypothesis that metal ion cross-linking enhances nonideal sorption. Application of a glassy polymer sorption model reveals that cross-linking increases the affinity of solutes for the hole domain relative to the dissolution domain. The results (i) indicate that isolated, purified soil humic acid behaves like a glassy solid, (ii) indicate that metal-ion cross-linking creates a more rigid-chain structure and supports a link between nonideal sorption and the glassy character of soil organic matter, and (iii) underscore the importance of metal ions on humic structure in relation to sorption of hydrophobic organic compounds.
Abstract 2,3,5- and 2,4,5-trichiorophenyl methyl sulfides, 2,3,5- and 2,4,5-trichlorophenyl methyl sulfoxides, and 2,3,5- and 2,4,5-trichlorophenyl methyl sulfones (TCPSO 2 Mes) were detected in the urine of rats dosed with 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB). After the administration of 1,2,4-TCB to rats, swift decreases in concentrations of 1,2,4-TCB in blood, liver, kidneys, and adipose tissue were observed. On the other hand, 2,3,5-TCPSO 2 Me appeared in blood, liver, kidneys, and adipose tissue and remained detectable in the blood and the three tissues until 120 hr. The increases in the activities of aminopyrine N -demethylase and aniline hydroxylase and the contents of cytochromes P450 and b 5 in hepatic microsomes produced by 1,2,4-TCB occurred after increases in the hepatic concentration of 2,3,5-TCPSO 2 Me. 2,3,5- and 2,4,5-TCPSO 2 Me increased the above four parameters in rat liver microsomes. The inducing intensity of 2,3,5-TCPSO 2 Me was much higher than that of 2,4,5-TCPSO 2 Me. 2,3,5-TCPSO 2 Me was considered to be a potent inducer and to play a principal role in the induction by l,2,4-TCB. When l,2,4-TCB was injected ip into bile duct-cannulated rats, little 2,3,5-TCPSO 2 Me was detected in blood, liver, kidneys, and adipose tissue. In the antibiotic-pretreated rats dosed with 1,2,4-TCB, 2,3,5-TCPSO 2 Me concentrations in the blood and the three tissues markedly decreased. These findings suggest that the formation of methylsulfonyl metabolites from 1,2,4-TCB depends largely upon the metabolism of some precursor(s) excreted in the bile by intestinal microflora. The increasing effects of 1,2,4-TCB administration on the activities of aminopyrine- and aniline-metabolizing enzymes and the contents of cytochromes P450 and b 5 in hepatic microsomes were not observed in the bile duct-cannulated rats. These findings provide evidence that the induction of drug-metabolizing enzymes by 1,2,4-TCB is not due to the action of 1,2,4-TCB itself but is due to its methylsulfonyl metabolite, 2,3,5-TCPSO 2 Me.
Photolysis of chlorobenzene, 2- and 4-chlorobiphenyl, and 2- and 4-chlorobiphenyl ethers in water with 250-300-nm light produce corresponding phenols or, in the case of 2-chlorobiphenyl ether, dibenzofuran exclusively. Quantum yields in most cases are very similar to those reported in hexane for the reduction process. 1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene and 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzodioxin (TC-DD) photolyze much less efficiently in water than in hexane. A common pathway for photolysis of monochloroaromatics involving aryl cations accounts well for the experimental observations. C-O rather than C-Cl cleavage in TCDD may be a major pathway for its loss. Half-lives for photolysis of these chloroaromatics in sunlight in water range from 460 years to 5 days; TCDD photolyzes in water with a half-life of about 4-5 days in summer at 40/sup 0/ latitude. 40 references, 1 figure, 8 tables.
Abstract : Several alkoxy/aryloxy substituted phosphazene polymers P(OR)2=Nn, where R=CH3, C6H5, C6H5CH3, CH,2CF3, C6H4-C6H5, C6H5-CI, C6H5Br, C8H10 were prepared by the reaction of polydichlorophosphazene with their corresponding sodium salts. The polydichlorophosphazene was obtained by the solution polymerization of hexachlorocyclotriphosphazene in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. Sulfamic acid and ammonium sulfamate were used as catalysts Apparently sulfamic acid functions as a catalyst through its acid group in some decomposed form. Toluenesulfonic acid and sulfobenozic acid were new calalysts developed for solution polymerization. The polymerization favors a cationic mechanism. Promoters were found to speed up the polymerization reaction and reduce branching. Effect of different parameters including dilution, catalyst concentration and promoter concentration on the properties of the final polymer were investigated.
Biochar pyrolysed at 300 °C, 500 °C, 700 °C was modified by hydrochloric acid (HCl), hydrofluoric acid (HF), sodium hydroxide (NaOH), hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), nitric acid (HNO3) and potassium permanganate (KMnO4), and subsequently evaluated for removal efficiency of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) by biochar supported nanoscale zero-valent iron (nZVI) and palladium (Pd) composites. Under the initial 1,2,4-TCB concentration of 10 mg L-1 and the solid-liquid ratio of 0.16 g L-1, the synthesized composites of nZVI-Pd with BC700 modified by HF (FBC700-nZVI-Pd) and nZVI-Pd with BC300 modified by NaOH (SBC300-nZVI-Pd) demonstrated significantly enhanced removal efficiencies for 1,2,4-TCB achieving 98.8% and 94.7% after 48 h, respectively. The physicochemical properties of biochar including specific surface area, aromaticity and hydrophobicity after the modification by HF and NaOH were improved. Increased the supporting sites for Fe/Pd nanoparticles and the contact between composites and 1,2,4-TCB were mainly responsible for enhanced removal efficiency for 1,2,4-TCB. Both the adsorption by biochar and reduction by Fe/Pd nanoparticles effectively contributed to the removal of 1,2,4-TCB. It is estimated that the proportion of reduction was about twice that of adsorption in the first 12 h, which produced 1,2-DCB, benzene and other degradation products. Therefore, biochar treated with HF and NaOH and supported Fe/Pd nanoparticles could be effective functional materials for remediation of groundwater contaminated by 1,2,4-TCB.
Abstract The sorption of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and tetrachloroethene was investigated in a series of well-controlled batch experiments, using authigenic soil materials from a profile extending to 2.5 m below ground surface. Batch experiment techniques were verified by study with both pulverized and unpulverized soil at different times of equilibration, using two widely different soil:water ratios, and at a wide range of aqueous concentration. Sorption isotherms were approximately linear, with sorption distribution coefficients ( K d ) found to decrease roughly 100-fold down the soil profile. K d decreased with depth to an extent greater than could be predicted on the basis of the only 10-fold decrease in natural solid organic matter (SOM) content and despite significantly higher specific surface area in the lower horizons. All base-extractable SOM in these deeper soil horizons was operationally defined as fulvic acid (FA), although there was also a significant fraction that was not extracted by the standard base technique. The lower K d of the deeper soil horizons is believed to reflect a complex combination of (1) lower SOM content; (2) a more hydrophilic form of SOM; and (3) a more intimate association of the SOM with the mineral fraction, affecting its accessibility, sorptivity, or both. For the deeper horizons, an increase in overall K d by more than 4-fold was observed on solids treated by either base extraction or H 2 O 2 treatment, demonstrating that sorption to remaining soil components could be dramatically increased by fractional SOM removal and/or chemical alteration of the soil. A simple regression model that divides SOM into only two types (shallow and deep SOM) provides a reasonably good explanation of sorption in all seven horizons and suggests an order-of-magnitude variability in K oc among surface soil and deeper horizons.
The reactions of a mixture of 1,2,3- and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and polychlorinated biphenyls congeners of the industrial mixture Sovol with neopentyl glycol in the presence of alkali in DMSO medium was studied. In the conditions of nucleophilic substitution the aromatic compounds are converted completely. Using the method of gas chromatography with flame ionization and mass spectrometric detectors the structure of all synthesized compounds was studied and the following series of increasing reactivity of the polychlorinated biphenyls congeners was revealed: tetra- < penta- < hexachlorobiphenyls. The process can serve as a preliminary step of the preparation of industrial waste for the subsequent biological degradation.
Xenobiotics generally enter fish via the gills from the water when they breathe or via the gastrointestinal (GI) tract from ingested food. The relative contribution of gll uptake versus GI tract uptake to the overall chemical burden in fish is still under much debate and is the general focus of my thesis. Of particular interest was the influence of the lipid solubility of chemicals (as expressed by the octanol-water partition coefficient, log KO,) and of the presence of suspended particles in the water (with low or high organic carbon content) on chemical uptake via these two routes. I used rainbow trout (Oncorhychus mykiss) as the test animal and three test chemicals that had different lipid solubilities, i.e., 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB), log KO, 3.98, l,2,3,4,5pentachlorobenzene (PeCB), log KO, 5.03 and 2,2'4,4'6,6'-hexachlorobiphenyl (HCBP), log K(,, 7.55. My first objective was to test the hypothesis that the gills are a more important uptake route for lipophilic chemicals than GI tract. Experiments were performed in which fish were exposed to either contaminated water or food. Uptake rate constants and concentration factors were calculated from measurements of water chemical concentrations, food chemical concentrations and fish body burden. Gill uptake rate constants for all three test chemicals were about 5-orders of magnitude greater than those for GI tract uptake. Further, a model simulating simultaneous exposure to water and food of differing chemical concentration ratios indicated that the two uptake routes would contribute equally to the fish body burden only when the food:water concentration ratio was between 10' to los3 for the three test chemicals. According to the expected foodlwater chemical ratios in nature, the gills are predicted to act as the primary uptake route for 1,2,4-TCB and PeCB with log KO, values of 3.98 and 5.03, respectively, while the GI tract will contribute mostly to the uptake of HCBP with a log &, value of 7.55. My second objective was to test the hypothesis that the chemicals associated with suspended sediments containing low organic carbon from the Fraser River are bioavailable for gill uptake. Fish, with and without pharyngeal plugs to prevent ingestion, were exposed to the three test chemicals in aquaria containing sediments from the Fraser River. Uptake from the bottom sediments did not occur because the body burden did not differ between fish exposed to suspended sediments only and to both suspended sediments and bottom sediments. A 6to 18-day exposure to sediment-laden water resulted in a rapid gill uptake of test chemicals within the first two days. A mass balance of the test chemicals in the water, sediment and fish compartments revealed that the body burden of the fish could not be accounted for solely by the amount of chemicals dissolved in the water at the time when the fish were introduced to the aquaria. I concluded that lipophilic chemicals associated with the suspended sediments were bioavailable to the fish via the gills. My third objective was to test the hypothesis that dissolved organic matter does not necessarily reduce the uptake of lipophilic chemicals in fish. Body burdens of test chemicals were measured after exposure to different concentrations of hurnic acid. The results showed that only higher concentrations of hurnic acid (4.81 and 14.32 m a ) reduced the uptake of HCBP to fish but did not influence the uptake of 1,2,4-TCB and PeCB. A low concentration of humic acid (1.54 m a ) actually elevated the accumulation of 1,2,4-TCB and PeCB compared with other concentrations of humic acid. Collectively, my results show that the role of gdl uptake of lipophilic chemicals from water, from suspended sediment and from humic acid may have been underestimated in the past, and that the factors affecting uptake of lipophilic xenobiotics in natural waters are likely more complex than previously thought.
Abstract Catalytic hydrodechlorination (HDC) is an efficient way to remove chloride species from chlorinated hydrocarbons. Hydrodechlorination reaction of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene was studied over a series of palladium (1 wt.%) catalysts supported on calcined Mg/Al hydrotalcite-like materials (HT) prepared with different Mg/Al ratios. The fresh catalysts were characterized using ICP-OES, XRD, N2-physisorption, H2-chemisorption, TPR, and TEM. It has been observed that the activity, stability and selectivity of the catalysts in the hydrodechlorination reaction of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene were strongly dependent on the Mg/Al molar ratio in the Mg(Al)O support. The sample with Mg/Al ratio of 4 exhibited the highest activity and selectivity towards total hydrodechlorination reaction giving benzene. Rehydration of the calcined hydrotalcite catalyst resulted in an enhancement of the hydrodechlorination performance. The spent samples were characterized by TPO/MS, TGA and ESEM–EDS techniques. Based on our results it was revealed that catalyst deactivation was mainly due to coke formation. The amount of coke decreased with the base character of the support. The amount of coke formed during the reaction can be eliminated by combustion recovering the initial activity.
Co3O4 was synthesized with cabbage-like, plate-like and sphere-like morphologies. The effect of different morphologies on the degradation of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TrCB) was evaluated, and the cabbage-like Co3O4 exhibited the highest reactivity. The degradation of 1,2,4-TrCB on the cabbage-like Co3O4 is hypothesized to act competitively via hydrodechlorination and oxygen-attacking pathways. By the hydrodechlorination pathway, 1,2,4-TrCB is successively dechlorinated into the three dichlorobenzenes (DCBs) and then monochlorobenzene (MCB). The yield of the DCBs was in the order of p-DCB > m-DCB > o-DCB, which can be explained by the calculated C–Cl bond dissociation energies in 1,2,4-TrCB and DCBs. Derivatization and electron spin resonance experiments identified that lattice oxygen and superoxide anions may take part in the oxidation pathway. The lattice oxygen initiated a partial oxidation of 1,2,4-TrCB, leading to the formation of chlorinated phenols. The superoxide anions caused ring-cracking oxidation of 1,2,4-TrCB, possibly producing some low-molecular-weight products, thus explaining a mass imbalance in the chlorine atoms and total organic carbon.
Some polyhalogenated hydrocarbons, such as hexachlorobenzene (HCB), (1) 1 ,4-dichlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB) (different commercial brands), hexachlorobiphenyls, 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzop-dioxin, y-hexachlorocyclohexane, polybrominated biphenyls (BP-6), methyl chloride, vinyl chloride (2) , and hexabromobenzene (3) , are able to produce porphyria in man and animals and pose health hazards because of their presence in human and animal food, in the work place, and in wildlife. PBB is a strong porphyrinogenic compound in avian systems. Compared to the porphyrinogenic action of HCB and PCB, PBB is respectively 80 and 10 times more active (4, 5) . A feature of the porphyria evoked by these polyhalogenated aromatics is its slow onset. A long chronic exposure is needed, especially in mammals (6) . This type of porphyria is related to liver damage (7) .
Three shape-persistent naphthylene-phenylene-acetylene macrocycles of identical backbone structures and extraannular substitution patterns but different (empty, apolar, polar) nanopore fillings are self-assembled at the solid/liquid interface of highly oriented pyrolytic graphite and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. Submolecularly resolved images of the resulting two-dimensional (2D) crystalline monolayer patterns are obtained by in situ scanning tunneling microscopy. A concentration-dependent conformational polymorphism is found, and open and more dense packing motifs are observed. For all three compounds alike lattice parameters are found, therefore the intermolecular macrocycle distances are mainly determined by their size and symmetry. This is an excellent example that the graphite acts as a template for the macrocycle organization independent from their specific interior.
Abstract To elucidate the effect of structure and property of biochar on the structure-activity relationship among the composites of biochar supported Pd/Fe and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) and its dechlorination products, biochar supported Pd/Fe nanoparticles with different mass ratios were investigated for the enhanced removal of 1,2,4-TCB (52 μmol/L) and its dechlorination products. 1,2,4-TCB was removed through the electrochemical dechlorination by Pd/Fe and adsorption by biochar simultaneously. As the mass ratio of CS700 to Pd/Fe was 0.1:1, biochar within the Pd/Fe-CS7000.1 system played a significant role in the adsorption of 1,2,4-TCB. However, there is little adsorption to biochar for dechlorination products due to strong competition by 1,2,4-TCB. As the mass ratio of CS700 to Pd/Fe was increased to 5:1, 1,2,4-TCB was completely removed from the solution by the composites within 0.5 h. The dechlorination products (1,2-DCB, MCB, benzene and trace 1,3-DCB) were completely sequestered on solid phase but absent in aqueous solution. However, the excessive biochar increased the inaccessibility of 1,2,4-TCB or decreased the reactive sites of Pd/Fe leading to the less dechlorination of 1,2,4-TCB. The alkaline biochar did not influence the chemical reactivity of Pd/Fe in the composites and buffered the acid and alkaline solutions with pH being maintained at neutral conditions under initial pH ranging from 3.07 to 10.03. The highly hydrophobicity of biochar could maintain the affinity of the composite for the chlorinated compounds even if the concentration of 1,2,4-TCB was up to 80.9% of its aqueous solubility. This study provides efficient synergistic removal support for the treatment of TCB affected groundwater.
The standard serum bottle experiment was employed to analyze the degradation activities of microorganisms acquired by long-term anaerobic domestication cultivation with hexachlorobenzene(HCB)under different conditions.The results showed that the activity of microorganisms to degrade HCB was increased significantly with the glucose(250 mg/L).The degradation activities of microorganisms didn't increased with the increase of glucose concentrations.The nitrogen sources showed significant effects on the degradation of HCB.The degradation ability was decreased with the decrease of concentrations of nitrogen sources.The degradation was enhanced by Fe 3+,and the optimal concentration of Fe 3+ was 5 mg/L.The HCB degradation activity was decreased by the co-existence pollutants,1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene.
Chlorobenzenes are widespread pollutants and accumulate in the food chain due to their hydrophobicity and strong persistence against chemical and microbial degradation (34). Anaerobic reductive dechlorination of chlorinated benzenes was demonstrated for enrichment cultures from biofilm reactors, sewage sludge, river sediment, and soil (3, 4, 15, 16, 22, 31, 37). Dechlorination pathways for all multiply chlorinated benzenes were elucidated (4, 15). Some dechlorination patterns can be rationalized by thermodynamic considerations (3, 13), but little is known about the microorganisms participating in chlorobenzene dechlorination. ::: ::: Anaerobic bacteria transforming chlorobenzoates and/or chlorophenols have been isolated in pure cultures (5, 7, 18, 27, 39, 40, 45, 48). Desulfomonile tiedjei (12), strain 2CP-1 (7), Desulfitobacterium chlororespirans (39), and Desulfitobacterium sp. strain PCE1 (18) grow anaerobically by chlororespiration. So far, it has not been possible to evaluate whether the anaerobic dechlorination of chlorobenzenes proceeds via a similar mechanism, since pure cultures are not available. ::: ::: While the effect of oxygen and nitrate on the dechlorination of chloroaromatics is reported to be negative for most cultures (32), the effect of sulfur oxyanions is controversial. Some reports stated an inhibitory role of sulfate in the reductive dehalogenation of various chlorinated or fluorinated aromatics (17, 19, 25, 26); other studies found only slight inhibition (24), no inhibition (14), or even a stimulated rate of dechlorination (17, 23). For one mixed culture, the mineralization of chlorophenols was concomitantly coupled to the reduction of sulfur oxyanions (20, 21). With pure cultures of D. tiedjei, it could be shown that sulfite and thiosulfate inhibited the dechlorination of 3-chlorobenzoate in growing cells, nongrowing cells, and cell extracts, while sulfate inhibited dechlorination only in growing cells (46). ::: ::: The high toxicity (22) and the low solubility of chlorobenzenes in water prevented the successful isolation of bacteria with chlorobenzenes as electron acceptors. It is therefore essential to study alternative electron acceptors that could be used by chlorobenzene-dechlorinating bacteria and that could substitute for chlorobenzenes during enrichment and isolation. Information about reductive dechlorination of chlorobenzenes in the presence of other electron acceptors is also needed for the evaluation of dechlorination processes at natural sites and for in situ remediation projects. To our knowledge, detailed studies of the effects of alternative electron acceptors on the dechlorination of chlorobenzenes have not been reported so far. ::: ::: The aim of the present study was to describe the physiological properties of a mixed culture effectively dechlorinating trichlorobenzenes and to determine the effects of various specific inhibitors and alternative electron acceptors. For these experiments, we used a stable, sediment-free mixed consortium growing in a defined, synthetic mineral medium. This consortium has been established in our laboratory from a fluidized bed bioreactor (1, 33) and reductively dechlorinates 1,2,3-trichlorobenzene to 1,3-dichlorobenzene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene to 1,4- and 1,3-dichlorobenzene. By inhibiting the activity of methanogenic bacteria using the specific inhibitor bromoethanesulfonate (BES), we showed that dechlorination occurs independently from methanogenic bacteria (1), as has also been shown for other enrichment cultures dechlorinating chlorobenzenes (22, 31).
Chlorobenzene, hexachlorobenzene, and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene are included in this category. The 1,2-, 1,3-, and 1,4-dichlorobenzenes are listed under the heading “dichlorobenzenes” (q.v.).
A bacterium capable of utilizing 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene as sole carbon source was isolated from the polluted soil sample.This baterium was identified as Pseudomonas nitroreducens according to its physiological biochemical analysis and its 16S rDNA sequence(GenBank Accession No.EF107515).When the initial concentration of(1,2,4-TCB) is 400(mg/L),J5-1 can achieve a maximum degradation rate of 90%.When the initial concentration of(1,2,4-TCB) is 20(mg/L),the effect of degradation is the best.Degradation of(1,2,4-TCB) by strain J5-1 obeys the first order dynamics.The total gene of chlorocatechol 1,2-dioxygenase was cloned from genomic DNA of J5-1.
Water-soluble lanthanoid mono- and bisporphyrins, Ln(TPyP)acac (Ln = Ce, Pr) and Ln(TPyP)2 (Ln = Ce) [TPyP = tetra(4-pyridyl)-porphyrin, acac = acetylacetone] were synthesized by refluxing Ln(acac)3·nH2O (Ln = Ce, Pr) and H2TPyP in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. The complexes were characterized based on UV/vis absorption and 1H-NMR spectra, respectively.
Electrochemical dechlorination of chlorobenzenes in the presence of various arene mediators such as naphthalene, biphenyl, phenanthrene, anthracene, and pyrene, was studied. The amount of mediator required was able to be reduced to 0.01 equiv. for all mediators except for anthracene, with the complete dechlorination of mono-, 1,3-di- and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene still achieved. This catalytic amount of mediator plays an important role in accelerating the dechlorination through the rapid formation of radical anions prior to reduction of the chlorobenzenes.
Nickel (salen) in conjunction with methylaluminoxane (MAO) catalyzes the polymerization of norbornene to poly (2,3-bicyclo [2.2.1] hept-2-ene) [poly (norbornene)]. Methylaluminoxane (MAO) was used as cocatalyst as such (MAO-I) and after distilling off free trimethylaluminium (MAO-II). The catalyst system was very active in chlorobenzene at room temperature. It was also found that MAO-II gave higher activity as compared to MAO-I. The samples of polynorbornene were soluble in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. The poly (norbornene)s were characterized by intrinsic viscosity and thermal properties.
Hysteresis, or isotherm nonsingularity, is a confounding issue in sorption research that undermines the commonplace assumption of reversibility in environmental fate and effects models for organic compounds in soil media. Until now, a molecular-level mechanism for true hysteresis when the sorbate is retrievable, structurally intact, has not been forthcoming. We show here that two organic soils exhibit the "conditioning effect", which refers to the enhancement in sorption of a compound following brief exposure of the sorbent to high concentrations of the same or a similar compound. The conditioning effect has been used in support of a pore deformation mechanism for hysteresis in glassy polymers. By this mechanism, the sorbate causes irreversible changes in the structure of internal nanopores (holes) in the organic matrix upon its sorption. Trichloromethane was the test solute for dichloromethane-conditioned Pahokee soil (44.6% organic carbon), and chlorobenzene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene were the test solutes for benzene-conditioned Mount Pleasant silt loam (4.5% organic carbon). In each case, the isotherm of the test solute in the conditioned soil was shifted upward of, and was less linear than, the corresponding isotherm in the nonconditioned control. Application of the polymer-based Dual-Mode (partitioning-hole filling) Model shows an expansion of the hole domain as a result of conditioning. The memory of the conditioning effect persists for longer than 96 days at 21 degrees C but is lost upon heating the sample at 100 degrees C. A three-step (sorption-desorption-resorption) experiment demonstrated hysteresis followed by enhanced resorption, implying a mechanistic relationship between hysteresis and the conditioning effect. The results indicate that irreversible pore deformation is a mechanism for hysteresis in natural organic matter materials and suggest that slow matrix relaxation may contribute to the often-observed long-term resistance of some contaminants to desorption.
A new, fast, easy to handle, and environmentally friendly magnetic headspace single-drop microextraction (Mag-HS-SDME) based on a magnetic ionic liquid (MIL) as an extractant solvent is presented. A small drop of the MIL 1-ethyl-3-methylimidazolium tetraisothiocyanatocobaltate(II) ([Emim]2[Co(NCS)4]) is located on one end of a small neodymium magnet to extract nine chlorobenzenes (1,2-dichlorobenzene, 1,3-dichlorobenzene, 1,4-dichlorobenzene, 1,2,3-trichlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, 1,3,5-trichlorobenzene, 1,2,3,4-tetrachlorobenzene, 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene, and pentachlorobenzene) as model analytes from water samples prior to thermal desorption-gas chromatography-mass spectrometry determination. A multivariate optimization strategy was employed to optimize experimental parameters affecting Mag-HS-SDME. The method was evaluated under optimized extraction conditions (i.e., sample volume, 20 mL; MIL volume, 1 μL; extraction time, 10 min; stirring speed, 1500 rpm; and ionic strength, 15% NaCl (w/v)), obtaining a linear response from 0.05 to 5 μg L-1 for all analytes. The repeatability of the proposed method was evaluated at 0.7 and 3 μg L-1 spiking levels and coefficients of variation ranged between 3 and 18% (n = 3). Limits of detection were in the order of nanograms per liter ranging from 4 ng L-1 for 1,4-dichlorobenzene and 1,2,3,4-tetrachlorobenzene to 8 ng L-1 for 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene. Finally, tap water, pond water, and wastewater were selected as real water samples to assess the applicability of the method. Relative recoveries varied between 82 and 114% showing negligible matrix effects. Graphical abstract Magnetic headspace single-drop microextraction followed by thermal desorption-gas chromatography-mass spectrometry.
Three shape-persistent naphthylene-phenylene-acetylene macrocycles of identical backbone structures and extraannular substitution patterns but different (empty, apolar, polar) nanopore fillings are self-assembled at the solid/liquid interface of highly oriented pyrolytic graphite and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. Submolecularly resolved images of the resulting two-dimensional (2D) crystalline monolayer patterns are obtained by in situ scanning tunneling microscopy. A concentration-dependent conformational polymorphism is found, and open and more dense packing motifs are observed. For all three compounds alike lattice parameters are found, therefore the intermolecular macrocycle distances are mainly determined by their size and symmetry. This is an excellent example that the graphite acts as a template for the macrocycle organization independent from their specific interior.
Abstract A new, fast, easy to handle, and environmentally friendly magnetic headspace single-drop microextraction (Mag-HS-SDME) based on a magnetic ionic liquid (MIL) as an extractant solvent is presented. A small drop of the MIL 1-ethyl-3-methylimidazolium tetraisothiocyanatocobaltate(II) ([Emim] 2 [Co(NCS) 4 ]) is located on one end of a small neodymium magnet to extract nine chlorobenzenes (1,2-dichlorobenzene, 1,3-dichlorobenzene, 1,4-dichlorobenzene, 1,2,3-trichlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, 1,3,5-trichlorobenzene, 1,2,3,4-tetrachlorobenzene, 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene, and pentachlorobenzene) as model analytes from water samples prior to thermal desorption-gas chromatography-mass spectrometry determination. A multivariate optimization strategy was employed to optimize experimental parameters affecting Mag-HS-SDME. The method was evaluated under optimized extraction conditions (i.e., sample volume, 20 mL; MIL volume, 1 μL; extraction time, 10 min; stirring speed, 1500 rpm; and ionic strength, 15% NaCl (w/v)), obtaining a linear response from 0.05 to 5 μg L −1 for all analytes. The repeatability of the proposed method was evaluated at 0.7 and 3 μg L −1 spiking levels and coefficients of variation ranged between 3 and 18% (n = 3). Limits of detection were in the order of nanograms per liter ranging from 4 ng L −1 for 1,4-dichlorobenzene and 1,2,3,4-tetrachlorobenzene to 8 ng L −1 for 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene.
Abstract Eisenia fetida was tested to assess terrestrial ecotoxicity in microcosms contaminated by copper (Cu), lead (Pb), and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) separately and in combinations. Toxicity endpoints were the median lethal concentration (LC50) and acid phosphatase (ACP), adenosine triphosphatase (ATPase), and glutathione S-transferase (GST) activities. Single toxicity tests revealed that the toxicity order was 1,2,4-TCB>Cu>Pb for E. fetida with LC50 as the toxicity criterion. A binary combination of Cu (25 or 200 mg/kg) and TCB (25 or 200 mg/kg) caused increased ACP and ATPase activities but decreased GST activities in all treatments. A combination of Pb (50 or 400 mg/kg) and TCB (50 or 400 mg/kg) caused increased (days 2 and 14) and decreased (day 7) ACP activities, initially increased (day 2) and then decreased (days 7 and 14) ATPase activities, and decreased GST activities in all treatments. In general, antagonistic and/or synergistic responses reflected bioaccumulation patterns in some binary c...
In the present work, a rapid method for the extraction and determination of chlorobenzenes (CBs) such as monochlorobenzene, 1,2-dichlorobenzene, 1,3-dichlorobenzene, 1,4-dichlorobenzene, 1,2,3-trichlorobenzene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene in water samples using the headspace solvent microextraction (HSME) and gas chromatography/electron capture detector (ECD) has been described. A microdrop of the dodecane containing monobromobenzene (internal standard) was used as extracting solvent in this investigation. The analytes were extracted by suspending a 2.5 microl extraction drop directly from the tip of a microsyringe fixed above an extraction vial with a septum in a way that the needle passed through the septum and the needle tip appeared above the surface of the solution. After the extraction was finished, the drop was retracted back into the needle and injected directly into a GC column. Optimization of experimental conditions such as nature of the extracting solvent, microdrop and sample temperatures, stirring rate, microdrop and sample volumes, the ionic strength and extraction time were investigated. The optimized conditions were as follows: dodecane as the extracting solvent, the extraction temperature, 45 degrees C; the sodium chloride concentration, 2M; the extraction time, 5.0 min; the stirring rate, 500 rpm; the drop volume, 2.5 microl; the sample volume, 7 ml; the microsyringe needle temperature, 0.0 degrees C. The limit of detection (LOD) ranged from 0.1 microg/l (for 1,3-dichlorobenzene) to 3.0 microg/l (for 1,4-dichlorobenzene) and linear range of 0.5-3.0 microg/l for 1,2-dichlorobenzene, 1,3-dichlorobenzene and from 5.0 to 20.0 microg/l for monochlorobenzene and from 5.0 to 30 microg/l for 1,4-dichlorobenzene. The relative standard deviations (R.S.D.) for most of CBs at the 5 microg/l level were below 10%. The optimized procedure was successfully applied to the extraction and determination of CBs in different water samples.
Treatment of octaethylporphyrin with hydrogen peroxide in concentrated sulphuric acid in the cold gives a monoxy-derivative: the earlier structures advanced for this type of compound are disproved, and this particular example is formulated as 2,3,7,8,12,13,18,18-octaethyl-17-oxochlorin. By-products are observed, one of which is formulated as a dioxo-b-tetrahydroporphyrin.Benzoyl peroxide reacts with octaethylporphyrin in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene at 95° to give 5-benzoyloxy-octaethylporphyrin. Hydrolysis of this gives octaethyloxophlorin, aspects of the chemistry of which are discussed. The location of the oxygen function at the meso-position is confirmed by ring synthesis.
[Objective] The aim was to explain the toxicity mechanism of halogenated benzenes on aquatic organisms and provide the basis for environmental risk evaluation on chemicals.[Method] By using growth inhibition test on bacteria,the chronic toxicities of 17 kinds of halogenated benzenes on mixed bacteria in Yangtze River water were determined.The quantitative structure and activity relationship(QSAR) research was performed on toxicity data by using valence molecular connectivity index method.[Result] The MATC values of the 17 halogenated benzenes were determined and their toxicity range was 4.31(chlorobenzene)-5.25(1,2,4-trichlorobenzene).The chronic toxicity of halogenated benzenes on bacteria in Yangtze River water was mainly related to the kind and number of substituent on benzene ring.The contributions of substituent to toxicity were shown to be: BrClNH2OH.The more the substitute was,the stronger the toxicity of compound was.[Conclusion] The chronic toxicity of halogenated benzenes on bacteria in Yangtze River water could be described well by using the equation-lgMATC=1.1906XVPC-0.3723XVP+4.611.
A series of thermoplastic poly(ester-olefin) elastomers, based on poly(ethylene-stat-butylene), HO-PEB-OH, as the soft segment and poly (butylene terephthalate), PBT, as the hard segment, were synthesized by a catalyzed transesterification reaction in solution. The incorporation of soft hydrogenated poly(butadiene) segments into the copolyester backbone was accomplished by the polycondensation of α, ω-dihydroxyl telechelic HO-PEB-OH, (PEB Mn = 3092 g/mol) with 1,4-butanediol (BD) and dimethyl terephthalate (DMT) in the presence of a 50 wt-% high boiling solvent i.e., 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. The molar ratio of the starting comonomers was selected to result in a constant hard to soft weight ratio of 60:40. The synthesis was optimized in terms of both the concentration of catalyst, tetra-n-butyl-titanate (Ti(OBu)4), and stabilizer, N,N'-diphenyl-p-phenylenediamine (DPPD), as well as the reaction time. It was found that the optimal catalyst concentration (Ti(OBu)4) for the synthesis of these thermoplastic elastomers was 1.0 mmol/mol ester and the optimal DPPD concentration was 1.0 wt-%. The extent of the reaction was followed by measuring the inherent viscosity of the reaction mixture. The effectiveness of the incorporation of the soft segments into the copolymer chains was proved by Soxhlet extraction with chloroform. The molecular structures, composition and the size of the synthesized poly(ester-butylene)s were verified by 1H NMR spectroscopy, viscometry of dilute solutions and the complex dynamic melt viscosity. The thermal properties of poly(ester-olefin)s were investigated by differential scanning calorimetry (DSC). The degree of crystallinity was also determined by DSC. The thermal and thermo-oxidative stability were investigated by thermogravimetric analysis (TGA). The rheological properties of poly(ester-olefin)s were investigated by dynamic mechanical spectroscopy in the melt and solid state.
1. The α-isomer of 1,2,3,4,5,6-hexachlorocyclohexane (HCH) is converted in rats to 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, 2,3,4-trichlorophenol, 2,4,6-trichlorophenol, other trichlorophenols, and 2,3,4,6-tetrachlorophenol, which were excreted in urine.2. α-HCH is also converted to 3,4, 6/5-pentachlorocyclohexene which is detectable in kidneys, but not in urine.3. The results of this study are discussed with references to earlier work and to γ-HCH metabolism.
A microcosm system was used to investigate and compare transfers of 14C labeled-1,2-dichlorobenzene (DCB), 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) and hexachlorobenzene (HCB) in an air-soil-plant system using single grass tillers planted into spiked soil. This study was the second phase of a development investigation for eventual study of a range of xenobiotic pollutants. Recoveries from the system were excellent at >90%. The predominant loss pathway for 14C labeled-1,2-DCB and 1,2,4-TCB was volatilisation with 85% and 76% volatilisation of parent compound and volatile metabolites over 5 weeks respectively. Most of the added label in the hexachlorobenzene spiked system remained in soil. Mineralisation was <1% for all compounds. 14C plant burdens expressed as microg parent compound/g plant fresh weight were significant and suggest that plant uptake of chlorobenzenes from soil may be an important exposure pathway for grazing herbivores. Both shoot and root uptake of 14C was detected, with foliar uptake of volatilised compounds dominating shoot uptake, and being greatest in TCB spiked systems. The microcosm is shown as potentially an ideal system with which to investigate organic xenobiotic partitioning in air-soil-plant systems to improve understanding of the equilibria and kinetics of exchanges. However, limitations imposed by the lab based conditions must be recognized and data should be compared with field based data sets as a consequence.
Abstract Densities (ρ) of pure liquids and their mixtures have been measured at 298.15 K to 313.15 K and atmospheric pressure over the entire composition range for the binary mixtures of benzylalcohol, with 1,2-dichlorobenzene, 1,3-dichlorobenzene, and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene by using Rudolph Research Analytical digital densitometer (DDH-2911 model). Further, the ultrasonic sound velocities for the above said mixtures were also measured at 303.15 K and 313.15 K. The measured density data were used to compute excess molar volumes (VE) and these were compared with Hwang equation. Isentropic compressibility (κS) and excess isentropic compressibilities (κSE) were evaluated from experimental sound velocity and density data. Moreover, the experimental sound velocities were analyzed in terms of theoretical models namely collision factor theory (CFT) and free length theory (FLT). The experimental results were discussed in terms of intermolecular interactions between component molecules.
Plum curculio, Conotrachelus nenuphar Herbst (Coleoptera: Curculionidae), is a key pest of stone and pome fruits in North America. The behavioral response of adults of different physiological states (sex, age, diet, and mating status) to three commercially available synthetic lures, benzaldehyde (BZ) and plum essence (PE), the male-produced aggregation pheromone, grandisoic acid (GA), or their combinations, was studied in the laboratory. Four choice olfactometer bioassays demonstrated significant attraction of both sexes to PE lure. Both BZ and GA lures were not attractive to plum curculio when tested as commercially formulated. PE had higher release rate (1.51 mg/hr) than BZ (0.36 mg/hr) and GA (ca. 0.04 mg/hr), suggesting that the higher attractiveness of PE may be due to its relatively higher release rates. Tests with combined lures showed a neutral effect of combining GA with PE and an inhibitory effect of combining BZ with PE. The physiological conditions of the weevils had no significant effect on their response to the lures. Olfactometer tests with pure 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) confirmed that this compound was inhibitory to plum curculio. These results are discussed in relation to the contrasting field reports which implicated BZ
Column tests were conducted to investigate the optimal condition of surfactant solution pH that can affect the removal efficiency in surfactant-assisted remediation. Toluene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene were chosen as the model hydrophobic substances. Two Iowa soils, Fruitfield sand and Webster clay loam, were leached with solutions of 4%(v/v) sodium diphenyl oxide disulfonate (DOSL, trade name Dowfax 8390), or 4%(v/v) trideceth-19-carboxylic acid (TDCA, trade name Sandopan JA36), or 4% (v/v) octylphenoxypoly ethoxyethanol (OPEE, trade name Triton X100). The test results revealed that a maximum removal of toluene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene was obtained at pH 10 of surfactant solution, and maximum recoveries of added toluene (94%) or 1 ,2,4- trichlorobenzene (97 %) were obtained for DOSL surfactant solution in Fruitfield sandy soil column. Increased removal efficiency by pH control of both toluene and 1,2,4trichlorobenzene was 16% and 20% for DOSL with Fruitfild sandy soil, respectively. In addition, the maximum recoveries of added toluene or I ,2,4-trichlorobenzene were 89% and 93% for DOSL surfactant solution in Webster clay loam soil column. The maximum increase of toluene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene removal was 26% and 19% for DOSL with Webster clay loam soil, respectively. These experimental results indicate that maintaining a high pH surfactant solution in surfactant-assisted remediation is desirable for efficient removal of NAPLs from contminated soils.
A series of novel poly(ester-imide)s were prepared by the reaction of meta- and para-substituted trimellitimide dicarboxylic diacid chlorides with various diols containing four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10, and 12 methylene groups by a solution polymerization technique utilizing refluxing 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene as a solvent. The poly(ester-imide)s were characterized by dilute solution viscosity, infrared spectroscopy, differential scanning calorimetry, and polarized light microscopy. The inherent viscosities of the meta-substituted poly(ester-imide)s ranged from 0.06 to 0.25 dL/g while those of the para-substituted poly(ester-imide)s ranged from 0.10 to 0.65 dL/g and were obviously of higher molecular weight. The meta series were amorphous and showed no mesophase formation. All para-substituted poly(ester-imide)s exhibited monotropic mesophase identified as smectic A order. © 1994 John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
Plum curculio, Conotrachelus nenuphar Herbst (Coleoptera: Curculionidae), is a key pest of stone and pome fruits in North America. The behavioral response of adults of different physiological states (sex, age, diet, and mating status) to three commercially available synthetic lures, benzaldehyde (BZ) and plum essence (PE), the male-produced aggregation pheromone, grandisoic acid (GA), or their combinations, was studied in the laboratory. Four choice olfactometer bioassays demonstrated significant attraction of both sexes to PE lure. Both BZ and GA lures were not attractive to plum curculio when tested as commercially formulated. PE had higher release rate (1.51 mg/hr) than BZ (0.36 mg/hr) and GA (ca. 0.04 mg/hr), suggesting that the higher attractiveness of PE may be due to its relatively higher release rates. Tests with combined lures showed a neutral effect of combining GA with PE and an inhibitory effect of combining BZ with PE. The physiological conditions of the weevils had no significant effect on their response to the lures. Olfactometer tests with pure 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) confirmed that this compound was inhibitory to plum curculio. These results are discussed in relation to the contrasting field reports which implicated BZ + GA as an effective attractant for plum curculio.
The aminolysis of poly(styrene-co-methyl acrylate) (SMA) by octadecylamine was studied in solution and in the melt at temperatures around 200°C. This reaction is rather slow, so several types of catalysts were tested to accelerate it. The most efficient is 2-pyridone, a compound in tautomeric equilibrium with 2-hydroxypyridine. A mechanism of the catalytic reaction is proposed whereby the tautomeric nature of the catalyst plays a key role in a very important step of the reaction, namely the proton transfer. This mechanism is confirmed by the kinetic data determined in a 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene solution and in the melt. In addition, it was found that the kinetic data obtained in both media are very close, indicating no significant difference of local polarity in the two reaction media. Data also show only a minor effect due to difference in viscosity. Finally, the question of the homogeneity of the molten medium is discussed.
Polyphosphazenes with higher molecular weight and narrow polydispersities were synthesized from hexachlorocyclotriphosphazene by solution polymerization and then characterized.A bubble-observing method,a substitute of traditional viscosity-observing,was developed to determine the end-point of the reaction.The factors of polymerization such as the amount of catalyst,solvent and temperature were investigated.The Purifying of two polyphosphazene derivatives were also discussed.The results show that polyphosphazenes with molecular weight above 2×105 and polydispersity index of 1.6~1.7 can be obtained with 30%~40% yield based on poly(dichlorophosphazene).Polymerization conditions are as follows: hexachlorocyclotriphosphazene 24 g,sulfamic acid 50~55 mg,CaSO4·2H2O 45 mg,1,2,4-trichlorobenzene 20 mL,reaction temperature 210~215 ℃.
This work aims to highlight the promising adsorption capacity and kinetic of (poly)chlorobenzene pollutants in the hybrid MIL-101(Cr) type material for technological uses in industrial waste exhaust decontamination. The influence of the MIL-101(Cr) crystal size (nano- and microcrystals) on the adsorption behavior was studied in static and dynamic modes. For this purpose, crystals of MIL-101(Cr) in nano- and micrometric sizes were synthesized and fully characterized. Their sorption properties regarding 1,2-dichlorobenzene were examined using gravimetric method in dynamic (p/p° = 0.5) and static (p/p° = 1) modes at room temperature. 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene adsorption was only performed under static mode because of its too low vapor pressure. 1,2-dichlorobenzene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene were used to mimic 2,3-dichlorodibenzo-p-dioxin and 1,2,3,4-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin, respectively, and more largely dioxin compounds. Adsorptions of these probes were successfully carried out in nano- and microcrystals of MIL-101(Cr). Indeed, in static mode (p/p° = 1) and at room temperature, nanocrystals adsorb 2266 molecules of 1,2-dichlorobenzene and 2093 molecules of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene per unit cell, whereas microcrystals adsorb 1871 molecules of 1,2-dichlorobenzene and 1631 molecules of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene per unit cell. In dynamic mode, the 1,2-dichlorobenzene adsorbed amounts are substantially similar to those obtained in static mode. However, the adsorption kinetics are different because of a different scheme of diffusivity of the adsorbate between the two modes. To the best of our knowledge, these adsorption capacities of MIL-101(Cr) as adsorbent for polychlorobenzenes trapping have never been referenced. MIL-101(Cr) appears as a promising material for technological uses in industrial waste exhaust decontamination.
The possible maternal hepatic and reproductive effects of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) were assessed in rats given 0, 36, 120, 360, and 1200 mg/kg/day of TCB on Days 9–13 of gestation. The animals were sacrificed on Day 14 of pregnancy. Maternal deaths (29 rats, 66 rats) were recorded in the 360 and 1200 mg/kg/day treatment groups and body weight gain was significantly decreased in the 360 mg/kg/day TCB group. Maternal liver weight, liver/body weight ratio, and hepatic microsomal protein content were unaffected by TCB treatment. Although Day 14 NADPH-cytochrome c reductase activity was affected only at 360 mg/kg/day TCB, the maternal hepatic microsomal cytochrome P-450 content was significantly increased by administration of both 120 and 360 mg/kg/day of TCB. Hepatic microsomal aminopyrine N-demethylase, ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase, and UDP-glucuronyl transferase activity towards p-nitrophenol were also increased at 120 and 360 mg/kg TCB. Glutathione S-transferase activity to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 1,2 dichloro-4-nitrobenzene were both increased by pretreatment with TCB. Although pretreatment with 360 mg/kg/day TCB did not increase resorptions, embryolethality, or teratogenicity, embryonic development was significantly retarded by all four growth criteria used (head length, crown-rump length, somite number, and protein content).
Abstract Physico-chemical properties as well as sorption and long term sorption kinetics of phenanthrene were measured in various size fractions and characteristic lithocomponents of heterogeneous aquifer material from the Horkheim Aquifer Test Site in southwest Germany. High contents of organic carbon as well as high equilibrium sorption capacities were found in the silt and the gravel fraction. The relatively high sorption capacities in the gravel sized fraction is due to high amounts of Triassic and Jurassic carbonate lithofragments which contain a significant amount of fossil organic matter (presumably kerogen). However, since sorption kinetics is slow in the coarse fraction, sorption equilibrium is not reached. Therefore under nonequilibrium conditions retardation factors will be orders of magnitudes lower than expected. INTRODUCTION Aquifer sediments are often a heterogeneous mixture of various lithocomponents which differ in size and properties. Fate and transport of contaminants depend on the relevant chemical and physical properties of specific lithocomponents of the aquifer sediments. These "reactive" lithocomponents may constitute only a relatively small fraction of the bulk material. Weber et al. (1992), for example, report that shale-like materials in soil samples showed sorption capacities of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene approximately 100 times higher than the parent bulk material. The paramagnetic fraction of aquifer sediments from the Cape Cod Test Site in Massachusetts showed higher sorption of chlorobenzene (factor 3) and a much higher organic carbon content (factor 5) than the nonmagnetic fraction (Barber et al., 1992). Studies on the sorption kinetics of hydrophobic organic contaminants in various aquifer materials show that diffusive mass transfer was limiting the sorptive uptake and the desorption rates (Karickhoff & Morris, 1985; Wu & Gschwend, 1986; Steinberg et al., 1987; Ball & Roberts, 1991; Brusseau, 1991). In many cases very low rates were observed (Grathwohl & Reinhard, 1993 ; Farrell & Reinhard, 1994; Harmon & Roberts, 1994). The time periods required in order to reach sorption equilibrium or to desorb the pollutants from contaminated material ranged from several months to many years (Steinberg et al, 1987; Pignatello et al, 1993; Schuth & Grathwohl, 1994). If the sorption kinetics are slow compared to the advective contaminant transport in groundwater, retardation factors become velocity or time dependent (Roberts et al, 1986; Schuth & Grathwohl, 1994) and extended tailing in aquifer remediation
The effects of single oral administration of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB), 200, 400, 800 or 1600 mg/kg, and of daily oral administration of TCB, 400 mg/kg, for 3 consecutive days, on components of the microsomal monooxygenase system, glutathione, and the activities of cytosolic glutathione S-transferase and microsomal epoxide hydrolase in Japanese quail liver were studied. Cytochromes P-450 and b5 contents of liver microsomes and the activities of 7-ethoxyresorufin deethylase (7-ERD) and glutathione S-transferase were significantly increased 1 day after administration of single doses of TCB. Liver GSH and 7-ethoxycoumarin deethylase (7-ECD) activity were unchanged. Microsomal epoxide hydrolase activity was significantly decreased at TCB doses above 400 mg/kg. Increases in cytochromes and activities of 7-ERD and glutathione S-transferase were also seen following the 3-day administration of TCB, 400 mg/kg. In addition, liver GSH and the activity of NADPH-cytochrome c reductase were significantly increased whereas 7-ECD was significantly decreased by the 3-day treatment. These findings indicate that in Japanese quail, TCB is an inducer of 7-ERD and glutathione S-transferase but not of 7-ECD and epoxide hydrolase.
The use of lanthanide triple-decker sandwich molecules containing porphyrins and phthalocyanines in molecular information storage applications requires the ability to attach monomeric triple deckers or arrays of triple deckers to electroactive surfaces. Such applications are limited by existing methods for preparing triple deckers. The reaction of a lanthanide porphyrin half-sandwich complex ((Por)M(acac)) with a dilithium phthalocyanine (PcLi2) in refluxing 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (bp 214 degrees C) affords a mixture of triple deckers of composition (Pc)M(Pc)M(Por), (Por)M(Pc)M(Por), and (Pc)M(Por)M(Pc). We have investigated more directed methods for preparing triple deckers of a given type with distinct metals in each layer. Application of the method of Weiss, which employs reaction of a (Por)M(acac) species with a lanthanide double decker in refluxing 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, afforded the desired triple decker in some cases but a mixture of triple deckers in others. The approach we developed employs in situ formation of the lanthanide reagent EuCl[N(SiMe3)2]2 or CeI[N(SiMe3)2]2, which upon reaction with a porphyrin affords the half-sandwich complex (Por)EuX or (Por)CeX' (X = Cl, N(SiMe3)2; X' = I, N(SiMe3)2). Subsequent reaction with PcLi2 gives the double decker (Por)M(Pc). The (Por(1))EuX half-sandwich complex gave the desired triple decker upon reaction with (Pc)Eu(Pc) but little of the desired product upon reaction with (Por(2))Eu(Pc). The (Por(1))CeX' half-sandwich complex reacted with europium double deckers (e.g., (tBPc)Eu(Por(2)), (tBPc)2Eu) to give the triple deckers (Por(1))Ce(tBPc)Eu(Por(2)) and (Por(1))Ce(tBPc)Eu(tBPc) in a rational manner (tB = tetra-tert-butyl). The reactions yielding the half-sandwich, double-decker, and triple-decker complexes were performed in refluxing bis(2-methoxyethyl) ether (bp 162 degrees C). The porphyrins incorporated in the various triple deckers include meso-tetrapentylporphyrin, meso-tetra-p-tolylporphyrin, octaethylporphyrin, and meso-tetraarylporphyrins bearing iodo, ethynyl, or iodo and ethynyl substituents. The triple deckers bearing iodo and/or ethynyl substituents constitute useful building blocks for information storage applications.
Solvent effect on chirality of 1,4-di[4-N-(trihydroxymethyl)methyl carbamoylphenyl]-2,5-didodecyloxybenzene (DTCD) self-assembled adlayer on highly oriented pyrolytic graphite (HOPG) is investigated by in situ scanning tunneling microscopy using tetrahydrofuran (THF), 1-phenyloctane (PO), 1-octanol, and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) as solvent. Different chiral patterns are acquired in these solvents, suggesting that the chiral assembly of DTCD is solvent-dependent. With use of THF or PO as solvent, chiral patterns with windmill-shaped tetramer units are observed. In contrast, a racemic lamellar structure is revealed in 1-octanol. The coadsorption of 1-octanol molecules makes an important contribution to the formation of racemic lamellar structure. A structure transition from racemic lamellar structure to tetramer-based chiral patterns is observed with removal of 1-octanol molecules by thermal annealing. When TCB is used as solvent, a chiral meshy structure is formed at the TCB/HOPG interface. The results ...
The effect of mass transfer factors on the selectivity of a consecutive reaction was studied. A theoretical analysis, based on the film model, was made for different cases to bring out the effect of mass transfer on the selectivity with respect to the intermediate product. The experimental work was concerned with the chlorination of p-cresol dissolved in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. A good agreement between the experimental and the predicted values was observed.
Uptake of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) by rice paddy was measured under pot cultivation condition. Concentrations of 1,2,4-TCB in various tissues of rice paddy were found to correlate excellently with the application levels of the chemical at cropping and residual levels at harvest, implying the potential risk of accumulation of 1,2,4-TCB in rice paddy grown in soil containing high concentration of the chemical. In the study, root uptake of 1,2,4-TCB rather than atmospheric entrance into rice paddy was observed. After one growing season, the residue of 1,2,4-TCB in soil were low, nevertheless, proportional to-the initial concentration. Copyright (C) 1996 Elsevier Science Ltd
(Solid + liquid) phase diagrams have been determined for (N -methyl-2-pyrrolidinone + benzene, or toluene, or 1,3,5-trimethylbenzene, or ethylbenzene, or chlorobenzene, or 1,2-dichlorobenzene, or 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, or 1,1,1-trichloroethane, or dichloromethane). Solid addition compounds form with the empirical formulae: { (C5H9NO)2· C6H6}, (C5H9NO · 2ClC6H5),(C5H6NO · Cl2C6H4) ,(2C5H9NO · Cl3C6H3) . All are congruently melting compounds. Compound formation is attributed to a charge-transfer interaction with the benzene, or chlorobenzene, or 1,2-dichlorobenzene, or 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene acting as electron acceptors and the nitrogen, or oxygen in N -methyl-2-pyrrolidinone acting as electron donors.
A pot experiment was conducted to study the effects of UV-B radiation enhancement alone,1,2,4-trichlorobenzene( TCB) contamination soil alone,and the combined stress on the growing process,stomatal resistance and leaf structure of green vegetable. The results showed that 1,2,4-TCB contamination alone had more significant inhibitory effect on the growth of green vegetable than the combined stress. Both UV-B radiation enhancement and 1,2,4-TCB contamination reduced the stomatal resistance of front and reverse leaves. Enhanced UV-B radiation resulted in the albino of leaves. 1,2,4-TCB contamination resulted in the fading of leaf color and the appearing of black spots on leaf surfaces,and the enhanced UV-B radiation strengthened the black-spot symptom. In conclusion,the effects of UV-B radiation enhancement alone,1,2,4-trichlorobenzene( TCB) contamination soil alone and the combined stress on the growth indicators of green vegetable were different.
The automated procedure for the monitoring of the adsorption process in the solute-sorbent-solvent system has been elaborated. It uses commercially available instrument CRYSTAF model 200. The application of CRYSTAF enabled monitoring of adsorption of linear polyethylene with weight average molar masses of 2, 14, and 53 kg/mol from 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene onto zeolite SH-300 at temperature as high as 140∘C. It is the authors' understanding that this is the first demonstration of an adsorption isotherms for polyethylene. The measurement with the CRYSTAF instrument reduces manual manipulations with dangerous solvents at high temperature and enables automated long-time monitoring of the concentration of the solute in an adsorption system.
Abstract A series of ten radiotracer experiments were conducted in controlled experimental ecosystems (mesocosms) to investigate the behavior of volatile organic compounds (VOC) in seawater. Time-series measurements of the redistribution of 14 C-activity within several major pools—dissolved, particulate, intermediate metabolite, and CO 2 —in the ecosystem made possible an evaluation of the rates of processes—volatilization, biodegradation, Sorption and sedimentation—acting to remove VOC from seawater in summer. The behavior of the model 14 C-VOC fell into three categories. Aromatic hydrocarbons (benzene, toluene, naphthalene) were subject to both volatilization and biodegradation, with mineralization dominating in summer. Chlorinated C 2 -hydrocarbons (tetrachloroethylene) and chlorinated benzenes (chlorobenzene, 1,4-dichlorobenzene, and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene) were affected only by volatilization and were relatively resistant to biodegradation. Of all the model VOC studied, only aliphatic hydrocarbons (decane and octadecane) were sorbed onto suspended paniculate matter; however, the primary route of loss from the water column appeared to be biodegradation rather than sedimentation. The mesocosm-derived removal rate constants were then applied to estimate summer VOC residence times in Narragansett Bay, Rhode Island of about 1 day for aromatic hydrocarbons, 1 week for the chlorinated VOC and about 1 day for aliphatic hydrocarbons. Residence times in winter might be on the order of 1 week for all VOC.
The automated procedure for the monitoring of the adsorption process in the solute-sorbent-solvent system has been elaborated. It uses commercially available instrument CRYSTAF model 200. The application of CRYSTAF enabled monitoring of adsorption of linear polyethylene with weight average molar masses of 2, 14, and 53 kg/mol from 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene onto zeolite SH-300 at temperature as high as 140
We have recently observed the adsorption of polyethylene in chromatographic columns packed with zeolites from a series of mobile phases [24] [25] [26] . For example, polyethylene was adsorbed from 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene on zeolite SH-300 at a temperature of 140
The solvents o-, m-, p-xylene, p-dichlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, and naphthalene were calibrated as condensates used in the thermoporosimetry technique. Exponential relationships were found connecting the pore radii R(p) (in nm) and the freezing-point depression of the swelling solvent deltaT (in degrees C) on the one hand and the apparent energy of crystallization W(a) (in J cm(-3)) and deltaT on the other hand: R(p) = t exp[-1/(c deltaT)]; W(a) = W0 exp(deltaT/f). Pore- or mesh-size distributions can be derived from differential scanning calorimetry results by using the following equation: dV(p)/dR(p) = k{[cY(T)deltaT2]/[W(a)R(p)]}. All the numerical parameters were determined. Polyethylene and polypropylene samples, cross-linked with high-energy electrons or gamma-rays, were submitted to thermoporosimetry study. Relative mesh-size distributions, which depend on the polymer/solvent pair, were calculated for these polyolefins with o-, m-, and p-xylene as solvent and were found to be in the same sequence as those of their degrees of swelling and the irradiation doses received.
A newly isolated Pseudomonas species, strain P51, growing aerobically on all dichlorobenzene isomers and on 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene as sole carbon and energy sources was tested for its ability to mineralize these components also in a non-sterile soil environment. Untreated sand from the river Rhine in which none of the dichloro- and trichlorobenzenes were degraded was placed in a percolation column and inoculated with Pseudomonas sp. strain P51. The column was fed continuously with synthetic river water containing the chlorinated compounds at concentrations between 10 μg/1 and 1 mg/1. The inoculated microorganisms were able to degrade the chlorinated benzenes and survived for at least 60 days in the column. For each compound a specific threshold concentration was observed below which no further degradation took place, and which was independent of the initial concentration. These threshold were 6 ± 4 μg/1 for 1,2-dichlorobenzene, 20 ± 5 μg/1 for 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and more than 20 μg/1 for the 1,3- and 1,4-isomers. Repeated inoculation of the column with strain P51 did not affect this minimal concentration. In noninoculated soil columns the native microbial population adapted to degrade 1,2-dichlorobenzene after a long lag phase, and reduced it from 25 μg/1 to a threshold concentration of 0.1 μg/1.
The role of regular/persistent free radicals on the catalytic activity of K+-tuned MnO2 tunnel structures is poorly understood to date. Herein, three MnO2 polymorphs (α-, β-, and δ-MnO2) were synthesized and examined toward the degradation of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TrCBz) at 300 °C. δ-MnO2, with a two-dimensional-layered tunnel structure tuned by K+, exhibited the highest activity among the three MnO2 polymorphs. The electron spin resonance spectroscopy results confirmed that δ-MnO2 featured the most abundant reactive oxygen species (ROS: O2-•, •OH, and 1O2), followed by α-MnO2 (O2-• and 1O2), and β-MnO2 (O2-•), being supported by the calculated energy barrier. It was, intriguingly, noted that persistent organic free radicals, newly recognized as emerging surface-stabilized compound, were remarkably detected in α- and β-MnO2/1,2,4-TrCBz systems but not in more reactive δ-MnO2/1,2,4-TrCBz system. These might contribute to discrepant oxidative degradation process. During the oxidative process, intermediates, including benzoic acid and glycerol, formed via attack by ROS. Upon further attack, these intermediates fragmented into smaller molecules such as formic, acetic, propionic, and butyric acids. The present findings give deeper insights into the role of free radicals on the catalytic degradation of chlorinated aromatics.
An analytical method consisting of extraction, clean-up, and analysis by gas chromatography-electron-capture detection (GC-ECD) was developed for the determination of trichlorobenzenes (TCBs) in fish samples. Two extraction methods, saponification and liquid-liquid extraction (S-LLE), and microwave-assisted extraction (MAE), were evaluated. In both cases, n-pentane was used as the extraction solvent. For S-LLE, the recoveries ranged from 66.6+/-9.1% for 1-bromo-4-chlorobenzene (4-BCB) to 93.5+/-4.9% for 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB). The recoveries were significantly lower, between 31.0+/-3.9% for 1,2,3-trichlorobenzene (1,2,3-TCB) and 52.3+/-3.0% for 1,3,5-trichlorobenzene (1,3,5-TCB), in the absence of fish. Proteins and glycerides of the fish tissue seemed to compete with TCBs for the base, and hence decreased their decomposition rate. In the case of MAE, the recoveries were highly dependent on the pressure applied during extraction. At 5 bar, much higher recoveries were obtained, from 66.7+/-15.6% for 4-BCB to 79.9+/-13.6% for 1,2,4-TCB, than at 1 bar. Sulfur formation was, however, observed at 5 bar, and interfered with the GC-ECD analysis of TCBs. Sulfur was adequately removed by copper powder treatment, which was shown not to affect the recovery of analytes. The recoveries of target analytes by S-LLE and MAE did not differ statistically (t-test, alpha = 0.01). Both methods were appropriate for the detection of TCBs at concentration levels typically observed in marine biota, i.e. approximately 1 ng/g. S-LLE was, however, more time consuming, and required larger volumes of high-purity organic solvents than MAE.
Abstract A method is presented for calculating the Cartesian displacement dispersions from the uncertainties of force constants and their correlation coefficients. Selected examples of uncertainty caused by vibrational coupling of modes are shown for a least-squares refined force field (1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and monochlorobenzene) and an assumed force field (coumarin) where the reliability of the transferred force constants is doubtful. The advantage of determining the displacement uncertainties prior to consideration of their possible physical significance is graphically illustrated.
The proteomic analysis of rice (Oryza sativa L.) roots and leaves responding to1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) stress was carried out by two dimensional gel electrophoresis, mass spectrometric (MS), and protein database analysis. The results showed that 5 mg/L TCB stress had a significant effect on global proteome in rice roots and leaves. The analysis of the category and function of TCB stress inducible proteins showed that different kinds of responses were produced in rice roots and leaves, when rice seedlings were exposed to 5mg/L TCB stress. Most responses are essential for rice defending the damage of TCB stress. These responses include detoxication of toxic substances, expression of pathogenesis-related proteins, synthesis of cell wall substances and secondary compounds, regulation of protein and amino acid metabolism, activation of methionine salvage pathway, and also include osmotic regulation and phytohormone metabolism. Comparing the TCB stress inducible proteins between the two cultivars, the β-glucosidase and pathogenesis-related protein family 10 proteins were particularly induced by TCB stress in the roots of rice cultivar (Oryza sativa L.) Aizaizhan, and the glutathione S-transferase and aci-reductone dioxygenase 4 were induced in the roots of rice cultivar Shanyou 63. This may be one of the important mechanisms for Shanyou 63 having higher tolerance to TCB stress than Aizaizhan.
An analytical strategy for comprehensive screening of target and non-target volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in surface water was developed, and it was applied to the analysis of VOCs in water samples from Daliao River. The target VOCs were quantified using purge and trap-gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (P&T-GC/MS). Among 20 water samples, 34 VOCs were detected at least once. For the screening of non-target VOCs, the double distillation apparatus was used for the pre-concentration of VOCs prior to P&T-GC/MS analysis. Subsequently, deconvolution software and NIST mass spectral library were applied for the identification of the non-target compounds. A total of 17 non-target VOCs were identified. The most frequently detected VOCs (detection frequencies >80 %) included toluene, benzene, naphthalene, 1,2-dichloroethane, 1,1,2-trichloroethane, and methyl tert-butyl ether. The distribution of VOCs obviously varied according to the sampling sites. The total concentrations of VOCs in water samples collected from the heavily industrialized cities (Anshan and Liaoyang) and the busy port city (Yingkou) were relatively high. The top ten priority VOCs, including naphthalene, 1,2-dichloroethane, o-xylene, 1,3-dichlorobenzene, tetrachloroethene, 1,2-dichlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, ethylbenzene, m-xylene, and p-xylene, were obtained by the ranking of the detected VOCs according to their occurrence and ecological effects. These compounds should be given more attention in monitoring and drainage control strategies.
Abstract The effects of phenol, 2-chlorophenol (2-CP), 2,4-dichlorophenol (2,4-DCP) and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) on the biodegradation kinetics of the conventional activated sludge system (CASS) and the selector activated sludge system (SASS) were investigated. Experiments were carried out using a respirometric method on unacclimated biomass from two lab-scale systems that were operated with the sludge age of 8 days. Toxicity of the test compounds for both reactors were arranged according to EC 50 (effective concentration) values in order as: 1,2,4-TCB > 2,4-DCP > 2-CP > phenol. All selected test compounds induced higher inhibition effect in the CASS. The SASS appeared to reduce inhibition effect in comparison to the CASS, by 21.36%, 66.95%, 64.37% and 33.33% for phenol, 2-CP, 2,4-DCP and 1,2,4-TCB, respectively. Consequently, the SASS may be recommended as a promising configuration alternative for the waste streams containing toxic compounds.
Gas chromatography of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and 1,3,5-trichlorobenzenes in water samples has been performed after adsorption from 80-mL sample on to a cartridge containing 200 mg cyanopropyl-bonded porous silica. The two trichlorobenzenes are desorbed with 500 μL carbon disulfide or pentane, which is concentrated and analysed by gas chromatography with electron-capture detection (GC-ECD). The recovery of 1–15 ppb trichlorobenzenes from distilled water and from Aniene and Tiber river water samples is ≥ 90% (standard deviation ≤ 5.5). The limit of detection is 0.02 ng mL−1 and 0.03 ng mL−1 for 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and 1,3,5-trichlorobenzene (standard deviation ≤ 9), respectively. The method described is fast, simple and reproducible.
Abstract In this work, we report the development and validation of an analytical method for the trace level determination of 14 selected (EU-directive) priority organic pollutants (namely, 1,2,3-trichlorobenzene (1,2,3-TCB), 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, 1,3,5-trichlorobenzene, hexachloro-1,3-butadiene, pentachlorobenzene, hexachlorobenzene, alachlor, α-hexachloro-cyclohexane (α-HCH), β-HCH, γ-HCH (lindane), δ-HCH, tetra-brominated diphenyl ether (tetra-BDE), penta-brominated diphenyl ether and hepta-brominated diphenyl ether) in wastewater samples from 5 different sewage treatment plants (STPs) located in Spain. The proposed methodology is based on liquid–liquid extraction with n-hexane followed by identification and confirmation of the selected pollutants by gas chromatography high-resolution mass spectrometry in selected ion recording acquisition mode. Recovery studies performed with spiked wastewater samples at two different concentration levels (0.1 and 1 μg L−1) gave mean recoveries in the range 80–120% (except for trichlorobenzenes, ca. with 50%) with RSD values below 10% in most cases, thus confirming the usefulness of the proposed methodology for the analyses of this kind of complex samples. The obtained detection limits in effluent wastewater matrices were in the low nanogram per liter range, with values as low as 0.09 ng L−1 for tetra-BDE and 0.3 ng L−1 for hexachlorobenzene. Finally, the proposed methodology was successfully applied to a monitoring study intended to characterize wastewater effluents of 5 different sewage treatment plants with different major activities (Industrial, Coastal, Urban). Most of the compounds targeted were detected in the ng L−1 range at concentrations ranging from 0.19 ng L−1 to 135 ng L−1 (hexachlorobenzene).
Syndiotactic polystyrene was lightly sulfonated in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene using acyl sulfate complexes. The sulfonation efficiency of the acyl sulfate increased significantly when anhydrides containing long aliphatic groups were used to complex fulfuric acid. The high sulfonation efficiencies, relative to acetyl sulfate, were attributed to the increased solubility of the longer hydrocarbon complexes in trichlorobenzene. The incorporation of small quantities (less 3.4 mol%) of sulfonic acid groups onto the syndiotactic polystyrene backbone was found to have little effect on the T g of these new materials. However, a much more pronounced effect of sulfonation was observed in the ionomer crystallization
We have studied the exfoliation and dispersion of hexabenzocoronene (HBC) in 28 different solvents. We see a wide range of dispersed concentrations and aggregation states, all of which can be related to the solvent properties. To a first approximation, the dispersed concentration is maximized for solvents with Hildebrand solubility parameter close to 21 MPa(1/2), similar to graphitic materials such as nanotubes and graphene. We have also studied the concentration dependence of the absorbance and photoluminescence of HBC for both a good solvent, cyclohexyl pyrrolidone (CHP), and a poor solvent, tetrahydrofuran (THF). In both cases, we observe features that can be associated with either individual molecules or aggregates, allowing us to establish metrics both for aggregate and individual molecule content. While the aggregate content always increases with concentration, good solvents disperse individual molecules at relatively high concentrations while poor solvents display aggregation even at low concentrations. Using these metrics, we determine that large populations of individual molecules are present at low concentrations in certain solvents with Hildebrand solubility parameters close to 21 MPa(1/2). However, the aggregation state of HBC is considerably more sensitive to solvent Hildebrand parameter for halogenated solvents than for amide solvents. We find a combination of high overall concentrations and large populations of individual molecules in four solvents: cyclohexyl pyrrolidone, 1-chloronaphthalene, 1-bromonaphthalene, and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. Scanning tunnelling microscopy (STM) measurements show the formation of self-assembled monolayers at the interface between a HBC-solvent dispersion and a highly oriented pyrolytic graphite (HOPG) substrate. Similar structures were observed on ultrathin supports by aberration-corrected transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Also observed were graphitic objects of size ~1 nm consistent with monomers or aggregated stacks of very few monomers. We believe this is strong evidence of the presence of individual molecules in dispersions prepared with appropriate solvents.
Rigid rod oligo(phenylene-ethynylene-butadiynylene)s (oPEBs), “half-rings” of two rigid rods connected via a molecular clamp unit, and shape-persistent macrocycles (cyclic “half-ring dimers”) are synthesized and their self-assembled monolayers (SAMs) are investigated by scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) at the interface of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB)/highly oriented pyrolytic graphite (HOPG). The results are important for the design of molecular building blocks for two-dimensional nanoscale architectures on solid surfaces.
Batch kinetic and equilibrium partitioning experiments were performed to determine the desorption rate and extent of chlorobenzenes and hexachlorobutadiene found in a contaminated estuarine sediment. A small fraction (less than 3%) of most sediment contaminants desorbed in a single-step batch test performed over 62 d. When a desorption test was conducted with contaminated sediment and successive replenishment of the supernatant, the desorbed contaminant fraction increased to as high as 17% after 33 successive desorption steps were completed. The 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene isomer attained the highest extent of desorption. The desorbed contaminant fraction strongly correlated to the organic carbon-based partition coefficient (Koc) of the contaminants. The two-site model was used to describe the desorption of chlorinated organic compounds from the sediment. Partition coefficients were determined both experimentally and by a computer optimization technique based on the batch desorption kinetic data and the two-site model. The first-order rate constant for the desorption of the contaminants from the “slow” desorption sites ranged from 1.1 × 10−4 to 2.5 × 10−2/d and was negatively correlated with the contaminant hydrophobicity (Koc).
Using inoculum from a microcosm study that exhibited aerobic transformation of cis-1,2-dichloroethene (cDCE) and trichloroethene (TCE) commensurate with biodegradation of monoaromatic compounds, enrichment cultures were developed by providing benzene, chlorobenzene (CB), dichlorobenzene (DCB) isomers and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene as carbon and energy sources. Isolates that grow on benzene, CB, 1,2-DCB and 1,3-DCB were identified as Rhodococcus, Ralstonia, Variovorax and Ralstonia spp., respectively. Cometabolic transformation of cDCE and TCE by resting cells was demonstrated. Transformation capacities (T(c)=0.47-1.0 μg TCE mg(-1)biomass; 1.3-5.3 μg cDCE mg(-1)biomass), transformation yields (T(y)=0.18-0.27 μg TCE mg(-1)substrate; 0.46-2.1 μg cDCE mg(-1)substrate), and pseudo-first-order cometabolic degradation rate constants (0.00081-0.0031 L mg TCE(-1)d(-1); 0.0012-0.030 L mg cDCE(-1)d(-1)) for resting cells grown on benzene, CB, 1,2-DCB and 1,3-DCB were generally lower in comparison to phenol and toluene-grown isolates. Cometabolic transformation of cDCE and TCE also occurred while the cultures concurrently consumed their growth substrate (T(c)(')=0.15-0.33 μg TCE mg(-1)biomass; 4.9-11 μg cDCE mg(-1)biomass; T(y)(')=0.06-0.11 μg TCE mg(-1)substrate; 1.7-4.6 μg cDCE mg(-1)substrate), a condition that is more likely to be encountered in situ compared to cometabolic transformations by resting cells. This study is the first to report transformation rates, capacities, and yields for cometabolism of cDCE and TCE during aerobic growth on benzene, CB, 1,2-DCB and 1,3-DCB. This type of information is needed to predict the potential for natural attenuation when these compounds occur as co-contaminants.
Abstract The ordering of electrically conducting polyaniline particles dispersed in a non-conducting liquid, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, in a weak electric field (of the order V mm −1 ) has been studied. The time needed for the formation of conducting chains, depending on the applied voltage, the polyaniline concentration and the viscosity of the suspension medium, was used to calculate the effective relative electric permittivity for polyaniline, ɛ p = 4.8, responsible for the dipole-dipole interaction leading to the structure formation. Nonlinear limit current-voltage characteristics typical of electrorheological suspensions were observed. The formation of the conducting chains could be followed in an optical microscope.
A series of metal–metal bonded osmium corrole dimers, {Os[TpXPC]}2, were synthesized in reasonably good yields (35–46%) via the interaction of the corresponding free-base meso-tris(p-X-phenyl)corroles (H3[TpXPC], X = CF3, H, CH3, and OCH3), Os3(CO)12, and potassium carbonate in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene under an inert atmosphere at 180 °C over several hours. The complexes are only the second class of Os corroles reported to date (the first being OsVIN corroles) and also the second class of metal–metal bonded metallocorrole dimers (the other being Ru corrole dimers). Comparison of the X-ray structures, redox potentials, and optical spectra of analogous Ru and Os corrole dimers, along with scalar-relativistic DFT calculations, has provided an experimentally calibrated account of relativistic effects in these complexes. Three of the Os corrole dimers (X = CF3, H, and OCH3) were analyzed with single-crystal X-ray diffraction analysis, revealing inversion-related corrole rings with eclipsed Os–N bonds and Os–Os d...
Elucidation of molecular-level interactions controlling the sorption of organic compounds in soils is of major theoretical and practical interest. Sorption of π-electron donor compounds, pentamethylbenzene (PMB), naphthalene (NAPH), and phenanthrene (PHEN), in a number of soils was found to increase with decreasing pH in the range of approximately pH 2.5−7. This behavior could not be attributed to pH-dependent alteration of the hydrophobic character of humic substances, π-H-bonding, interaction with mineral surfaces, interaction with black carbons, solute coplanarity, or pH effects on solute activity coefficient. No significant effect of pH was observed for non-π-donor hydrophobic compounds, whether planar or not: trans-1,2-dichlorocyclohexane (DCCH), hexachloro-1,3-butadiene (HCBD), 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB), 2,2‘,5,5‘-tetrachlorobiphenyl, and 3,3‘,4,4‘-tetrachlorobiphenyl. The opposite pH effect was observed for 2-nonanol and 2-nonanone, which are non-π-donors, but capable of H-bonding. Also, no pH-...
We carried out a detailed study of the capabilities and limitations of two force field models (MMP2 and MOLBD3) for calculating thermodynamic properties of -diene and -ene hydrocarbons. New force field parameters were introduced for the MOLBD3 program for unsaturated five-member rings and for methylene-bridged compounds. We investigated the Diels-Alder condensation of 1,3-cyclopentadiene in the temperature range 273 to 500K by use of MOLBD3. Equilibrium constants, standard enthalpies of reaction, and standard entropies of reaction were calculated. The calculated results were compared with experimental data reported in the literature. Anthracene derivatives, maleic anhydride derivatives, and Diels-Alder adducts were synthesized and purified in preparation for future experimental determination of equilibrium constants for various Diels-Alder reactions. The structure of the 9-phenylanthracene-maleic anhydride adduct was determined by x-ray crystallography. Equilibrium constants for the Diels-Alder reaction of 9-phenylanthracene and maleic anhydride in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene were determined for seven temperatures between 124 and 175/sup 0/C. 27 refs., 1 fig., 13 tabs.
Measured concentrations of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) in soil and groundwater detected in an industrial contaminated site were used to test several probabilistic options for refining site-specific ecological risks assessment, ranging from comparison of single effects and exposure values through comparison of probabilistic distributions for exposure and effects to the use of distribution based quotients (DBQs) obtained through Monte Carlo simulations. The results of the deterministic approach, which suggest that risk exceeds a level of concern for soil organisms, were influenced mainly by the presence of hot spots reaching concentrations able to affect acutely a large proportion of species, while the large majority of the area presents 1,2,4-TCB concentrations below those reported as toxic. Ground(pore)water concentrations were compared with aquatic ecotoxicity data in order to obtain an estimation of the potential risk for aquifers and streams in the adjacent area as well as for soil-dwelling orga...
Abstract Three corrole dimers were obtained by heating a 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene solution of 5,10,15-tris(pentafluorophenyl)corrole at 200 °C. The corrole units are linked by the β,β′-positions. In one of these dimers the corrole units are linked by the 2,2′,18,18′ carbons, giving rise to an eight-membered ring.
New experimental data for excess enthalpies of 1,2-dichlorobenzene and 1,3-dichlorobenzene with 1-heptanol and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene with 1-hexanol have been determined at 298.15 K. HE is positive over the whole range of composition in the three mixtures. However, the positive HE values of these mixtures exceed those for the mixtures which included the corresponding alkanes, n-heptane and n-hexane respectively. The difference in HE values suggests that the former group of mixtures include an additional factor, viz., break-up of hydrogen bonds in alcohol aggregates.
Abstract Several Ni/Mg/Al and Ni/Al hydrotalcite-like precursors have been prepared to study their catalytic properties in the hydrodechlorination of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene in the gas phase. All the samples were characterised by X-ray diffraction (XRD), BET, scanning electron microscopy (SEM), temperature-programmed desorption (TPD) and hydrogen chemisorption techniques. When the magnesium content increases in the catalysts, both the activity and selectivity to benzene greatly increases and the deactivation of the catalysts becomes slower. The highest TOF and selectivity to benzene values at 523 K (100%) are achieved by the catalyst which has the most content of Mg without any significant change in activity even at reaction times higher than 500 min. This catalytic behaviour can be explained because the MgO modifies the electronic properties of the nickel particle causing the hydrogen desorption at lower temperatures and also adsorbs the HCl produced during the hydrodechlorination reaction.
Tuning and characterizing the interfacial structure of organic semiconductors on graphene is essential for graphene-based devices. Regulation of the supramolecular assembling structure of oligothiophenes on graphene by changing functional groups attached to the backbone of oligothiophenes is described and the assembling behavior is compared with that on the basal plane of highly oriented pyrolytic graphite. It reveals that terminal functional groups attached to the conjugated backbone of oligothiophene can entirely change the assembling structures. Significant solvent and substrate effects have also been confirmed by comparing the assembling structures of oligothiophenes deposited from tetrahydrofuran, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, and octanoic acid onto graphene and graphite.
A degradation method via radicals is described for polypropylene in a solution of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene in an inert nitrogen atmosphere at a temperature of 160°C, by the action of the peroxide 2,5-dimethyl-2,5-di-terc-butylperoxihexane over the concentration range from 8.6 x 10 - 6 to 4.3 x 10 - 5 M. Under the abovementioned reaction conditions the structure, isotacticity level and stability remain invariable as a function of the reaction time, whereas a reduction in the average molecular weight and polydispersity are observed as a result of the scission of the longest polymer chains. The maximum in rate of decrease in the values of these parameters is observed in the first instants of the reaction, and increases with the amount of peroxide up to a critical concentration of 2.6 x 10 - 5 M, where a competition between chain scission and recombination takes place.
The contributions of organic matter and the mineral surface to the overall sorption of six nonpolar neutral organic compounds (1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, 1,4-dichlorobenzene, chlorobenzene, m-xylene, toluene, benzene) by five humic acid (HA)-coated sands with different fractions of organic carbon (f(oc)) ranging from 0.024% to 0.154% were evaluated on the basis of measured data and four different sorption models. Sorption of all six sorbates to both uncoated and heated sands was nearly linear due to the coverage of hydrophilic mineral surface with the ordered vicinal water region. Sorption of all six sorbates to the HA-coated sands was also essentially linear, and resulted from a combination of sorption to both organic matter and the mineral surface, with the dominance of either contribution depending on the properties of the sorbents (e.g., f(oc)) and the sorbates (e.g., K(ow)). A proposed two-component model for sorption including blocking effect was appropriate for quantifying the contributions of organic matter and the mineral surface to the overall sorption. However, conventional sorption models considering the contributions of both organic matter and the mineral surface provided essentially as good agreement between predicted and measured distribution coefficients as the more complicated, two-component model for sorption that takes into account mineral surface blocking by HA.
Although hexachlorobutadiene (HCBD) was recently proposed as a candidate persistent organic pollutant (POP) under the Stockholm Convention, information about its environmental levels and distributions is still very limited. In this work, HCBD was determined in the sewage sludge from 37 wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) in 23 cities and 17 soils near a chemical plant in China. Three chlorobenzenes (CBs) (1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene, and hexachlorobenzene) were simultaneously studied to help better understand the environmental behavior of HCBD. Concentrations of HCBD in sludge samples ranged from <0.03 to 74.3 ng/g dry weight (dw) with a median value of 0.30 ng/g dw, which was lower than those of the three CBs. Levels of HCBD were not correlated with capacity of the WWTPs and total organic carbon. For soils, high level of HCBD was found in the sample within the plant, with a rapid decreasing concentration trend with the increase of distance from the plant. It was suspected that rele...
Concentration analysis was performed for six substituted aromatic hydrocarbons in water samples from 15 different sites of the Yangtze River Estuary.In addition,the acute toxic effects(L(E)C50) was analyzed from three basic levels of aquatic organisms(alga,daphnia magna and fish).Based on this,the quotient method from the Technical Guidance Document(TGD) on Risk Assessment of Chemical Substances by the European Union was adopted to assess the ecological risk of 1,3-dichlorobenzene,1,4-dichlorobenzene,1,2-dichlorobenzene,hexachlorobenzene,2,4-dinitrotoluene,1,2,4-trichlorobenzene in water of the Yangtze River Estuary.The results showed that the quotient of PEC/PNEC of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene was higher than 1 and those of the others were lower than 1.This indicated that the six substituted aromatic hydrocarbons except 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene did not cause serious pollution to the Yangtze River Estuary ecosystem.
A swollen bulk polymerization approach for the preparation of a preform for manufacturing graded-index plastic optical fibers was examined. The preform prepared by the proposed approach was transparent and bubble-free and had a parabolic profile of the refractive index, with the highest refractive index at the center of the rod. The influences of the polymerization temperature and the type of dopant on the properties of the prepared preform were discussed. A higher temperature resulted in a steeper parabolic profile of the refractive index for the formed preform, and a lower temperature resulted in a higher refractive index near the core-cladding region of the preform. The refractive-index profiles of the preform were affected by the addition of the different types of dopants used. The concentration distribution of the dopant in the preform correlated to the refractive-index distribution. In a comparison of bromobenzene (BB) and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TB) as dopants, it was observed that BB distributions along the profile were more uniform than TB distributions, and a dopant with a larger molecular volume was more concentrated in the core center. It was concluded that the refractive-index distribution of the graded-index preform could be controlled by the both temperature and the addition of different types of dopants during the swollen bulk polymerization process. © 2003 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Polym Sci Part A: Polym Chem 41: 1813–1818, 2003
This demonstration of triple buoyancy reversal uses ammonium chloride, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, and 1,2,3-tribromopropane.
Abstract This paper reports the effect on the performance of the solar cells based on poly(3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT):[6,6]-phenyl C 61 -butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM) with different casting solvents. These blend films are characterized by UV–vis absorption spectra, photoluminescence spectra, charge-transport dark J – V curve, X-ray diffraction pattern curve, and AFM images. The results indicate that high boiling point solvent leads to an enhanced self-organization of P3HT in the active layer, which causes an increased charge transport. Increased incident light absorption and higher carrier mobility in the active layer contribute to the enhancement in the device performance, the power conversion efficiency of 3.69% and fill factor up to 65.3% are achieved with 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene as casting solvent without further heat treatment under Air Mass 1.5, 100 mW/cm 2 .
Abstract Nickel spinels were synthesized in order to be used as supports of nickel catalysts for the hydrodechlorination of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene in the gas phase. All the samples were structurally characterized using X-ray diffraction (XRD), BET, temperature-programmed reduction (TPR), scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and temperature-programmed desorption (TPD) techniques. The Ni/NiAl 2 O 4 catalysts tested had high conversions and selectivities towards benzene. This is due to their reduction degree (XRD) and structural surface properties (BET area, SEM, TPD). The most active and selective catalyst yields 87% benzene at 523 K for a conversion of 82%. These Ni/spinel catalysts desorb large amounts of hydrogen at lower temperatures (
Human- and rat-liver microsomes convert the lindane metabolite, beta-PCCH (beta-1,3,4,5,6-pentachlorocyclohex-1-ene (3,4,6/5-PCCH] to the metabolites: 1,2,4-TCB (1,2,4-trichlorobenzene), 1,2,3,4-TTCB (1,2,3,4-tetrachlorobenzene), 2,4,5-TCP (2,4,5-trichlorophenol), 3,4,5/6-PCCOL (1,2,4,5,6-pentachlorocyclohex-1-en-3-ol) and beta-PCCH oxide (1,2,3,4,5-pentachloro-7-oxabicyclo[4.1.0]heptane) or (3,4,6/5-PCCH oxide). The identity of the beta-PCCH oxide is confirmed by column chromatography and g.l.c.-mass spectrometry, in comparison to characterized synthetic material. The stability of the beta-PCCH oxide is indicated by its resistance to hydrolysis by microsomal epoxide hydrolase (EC. 3.3.2.3), or various aqueous acid conditions. It shows no mutagenicity using S. typhimurium strain TM677. However, in levels above 0.05 mg/ml it was lethal to the test cells. It is not a substrate for and is only a weak inhibitor of epoxide hydrolase. A stable halogenated hydrocarbon epoxide metabolite is described. Its toxicological role, if any, remains unaccounted for.
Tetraphenylporphinatomanganate(III) tetracyanoethenide, [MnTPP][TCNE], is the prototype of a growing family of linear chain (1-D) coordination polymers that magnetically order as ferrimagnets. [MnTPP][TCNE].xS [S = PhMe (x = 2), 1,2-C(6)H(4)Me(2) (x = 1), 1,2-C(6)H(4)Cl(2) (x = 3), 1,2,4-C(6)H(3)Cl(3) (x = 2), and 1,3-C(6)H(4)Cl(2) (x = 2)] have been prepared and structurally and magnetically characterized. All form 1-D chain structures with intrachain Mn.Mn separations ranging from 9.202 to 10.218 A. The 173 K crystal structure of [MnTPP][TCNE].2PhMe has been rerefined, revealing that the [TCNE](*)(-) is 2-fold-disordered and coordinated to Mn(III) by a pair of trans cyano nitrogen atoms to form parallel one-dimensional chains. The two orientations of [TCNE](*)(-) are related by a 180 degrees rotation about the diagonal axis joining the trans nitrogen atoms bound to Mn(III). The major form has an occupancy of 83.3(4)% with a Mn-N(TCNE) distance of 2.328(3) A and a MnNC angle of 146.8(8) degrees. The minor form, with 16.7(4)% occupancy, has a Mn-N(TCNE) distance of 2.176(15) A and a MnNC angle of 152.3(39) degrees. Lattice packing and molecular bonding imply static as opposed to dynamic disorder. The magnetic properties depend on the type and quantity of the solvent present in the structure. Desolvation via heating in n-octane (127 degrees C), n-dodecane (216 degrees C), and/or vacuum thermolysis (175 degrees C) leads to numerous different desolvated materials with differing magnetic properties. At higher temperatures the magnetic susceptibility can be fit by the Curie-Weiss expression, chi varies with (T - theta)(-1), with theta = 44, 52, 72, 55, and 77 K for the toluene, 1,2-xylene, 1,2-dichlorobenzene, 1,3-dichlorobenzene, and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene solvates, respectively. The T(c)'s were taken as the maximum in 10 Hz chi'(T) and are 7.8, 9.2, 11.3, 10.8, and 8.2 K for the PhMe, 1,2-xylene, 1,2-dichlorobenzene, 1,3-dichlorobenzene, and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene solvates, respectively. Upon desolvation the T(c)'s increase for the PhMe, 1,2-xylene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene solvates and decrease for the 1,2- and 1,3-dichlorobenezene solvates. The compounds show one-dimensional ferrimagnetic exchange behavior at high temperatures with intrachain exchange of J/k(b) = -63, -99, -234, -100, and -200 K for toluene, 1,2-xylene, 1,2-dichlorobenzene, 1,3-dichlorobenzene, and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene solvates, respectively, as determined from fits to the Seiden expression, which models isolated 1-D interactions among alternating S = 2 classical and S = (1)/(2) quantum spins. For variation in the temperature at which the peak occurs per decade of frequency, phi, (DeltaT(f)/T(f))/Delta(log omega) is 0.167, 0.168, 0.066, 0.171, and 0.024 for toluene, 1,2-xylene, 1,2-dichlorobenzene, 1,3-dichlorobenzene, and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, respectively, typical of spin glass behavior. Since [TCNE](*)(-) is only disordered for the PhMe solvate and all five solvates exhibit spin glass behavior, the spin glass behavior cannot be attributed to this disorder.
LDPE sample. LDPE F200-0 produced by Sumitomo Chemical Co., Ltd. (Tokyo, Japan) was used as a sample material. This LDPE was prepared by a tubular process. The LDPE sample was fractionated according to its molecular weight using a tailor-made fractionation system produced by Tosoh Co. (Tokyo, Japan). The system comprises of a manual injector, an oven, a column filled with glass beads, valves and two pumps equipped with vacuum degassers. The oven temperature was set to 125 °C. Xylene (good solvent) and 2-ethoxyethanol (poor solvent) were used as the components of the mobile phase. The xylene concentration in the mobile phase gradually increased, and the sample for atomic force microscope (AFM) observation was collected at a xylene concentration of 59.1-59.6 vol%. The average molecular weights (M w and M n ) and molecular weight distribution (MWD) were estimated with an HLC-8121GPC/HT GPC (gel permeation chromatography) or SEC (size exclusion chromatography) system (Tosoh) with three GMH6-HT columns (Tosoh). The SEC system was operated at 140 °C with a flow rate of 1.0 mL/min. The solvent and the eluent used for the analysis were o-dichlorobenzene (ODCB) stabilized with 500 ppm of 2,6-di-tert-butyl-p-cresol (BHT). The concentration of the sample solution and the injection volume were 1.0 mg/mL and 0.3 mL, respectively. Calibration of the system was performed with narrow MWD polystyrene (PS) standards obtained from Tosoh. To transform the molecular weight values of PS to those of PE, the Q-factor 12 of 41.3 (PS) and 17.7 (PE) was used. The absolute weight-average molecular weight (M w ) and branching index g′ (M) (the ratio of the intrinsic viscosities of branched and linear polymer at the same molecular weight) were estimated using a GPCIR SEC (GPC) system (Polymer Char, Spain) with three PLgel Olexis columns (Agilent Technologies, CA, USA), equipped with a HELEOS 8 multi-angle laser light scattering detector (MALLS, Wyatt Technology, CA, USA), a viscometer (Visc, Polymer Char) and an IR5 infrared detector (Polymer Char). Here the SEC-MALLS system provided the structural information of a polymer chain in dilute solution 13, 14 . This SEC system was operated at 160 °C with a flow rate of 1 mL/min. The solvent and the eluent used for the analysis was 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) stabilized with 300 ppm of BHT. The concentration of the sample solution and the injection volume were 2 mg/mL and 0.4 mL, respectively. NIST 1475a (a linear PE
Abstract A series of ethylene/1-octene copolymers with different chemical composition was separated in six binary mobile phases using solvent gradients and a column packed with porous graphite Hypercarb ™ . It was found that the elution volumes of the samples were to a larger extent influenced by the choice of desorption promoting solvent (desorli: 1,2-dichlorobenzene vs. 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene) than by the choice of adsorption promoting solvent (2-ethyl-1-hexanol, 1-decanol, n-decane). Elution volumes increased with decreasing number of chlorine atoms in the desorlis as well as with increasing polarity of the adsorlis. The resolution of HPLC systems depended pronouncedly on the choice of solvent pair: While in the majority of the tested HPLC systems, the chromatograms of the polymer samples indicate a shoulder, in n-decane→TCB the samples eluted without indication of a shoulder. In addition to the influence of different solvents on the samples elution behavior, the response of the employed detector, an evaporative light scattering detector (ELSD), was investigated. Its response was found to depend pronouncedly on the nature of the used solvents. Overall, the solvent pair 1-decanol→TCB appears to be the optimal compromise between the considered parameters and thus the best choice for HPLC of ethylene/1-octene copolymers.
We report the electrochemical fabrication of a poly(2,2-bithiophene-co-3-methylthiophene)-graphene composite coating and its application in the headspace solid-phase microextraction and gas chromatography determination of benzenes (i.e., bromobenzene, 4-bromotoluene, 2-nitrotoluene, 3-nitrotoluene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene). The coating was uniform and showed cauliflower-like microstructure. It had high thermal stability (up to 375°C) and could be used for at least 180 times of solid-phase microextraction without a decrease in extraction performance. Furthermore, it presented high extraction capacity for the benzenes due to the hydrophobic effect and π-π interaction between the analytes and the coating. Under optimized extraction conditions, good linearity (correlation coefficients higher than 0.9946), wide linear range (0.01-50 μg/L), and low limits of detection (5.25-12.5 ng/L) were achieved for these analytes. The relative standard deviation was lower than 5.7% for five successive measurements with one fiber, and the relative standard deviation for fiber-to-fiber was 4.9-6.8% (n = 5). The solid-phase microextraction and gas chromatography method was successfully applied for the determination of three real samples, and the recoveries for standards added were 89.6-106% for nail polish, 85.8-110% for hair dye, and 90-106.2% for correction fluid, respectively.
Both absolute molecular weight and molecular sizes (radius of gyration and hydrodynamic radius) of a vinyl-type polynorbornene eluting from size-exclusion chromatography columns were determined by combined with a static and dynamic laser light scattering detector. The hydrodynamic radius of polymer fraction eluting from size-exclusion chromatography columns was obtained from dynamic laser light scattering measurements at only a single angle of 90° by introducing a correction factor. According to the scaling relationship between molecular sizes and molecular weight and the ratio between radius of gyration and hydrodynamic radius, the vinyl-type polynorbornene took a random coil conformation in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene at 150 °C.
Abstract In the present study, we investigated the contribution of methylsulfonyl metabolite derived from 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) on the δ-aminolevulinic acid (ALA) synthetase induction by the parent compound in rats. The time courses of increasing of hepatic microsomal total cytochrome P450 content after a single ip administration of 1,2,4-TCB (1.36 mmol/kg), and 2,3,5- and 2,4,5-trichlorophenyl methyl sulfones (2,3,5- and 2,4,5-TCPSO 2 Mes) (50 μmol/kg each) were in parallel with those of increasing of the total heme content in liver microsomes. 1,2,4-TCB significantly increased the heme oxygenase activity, but 2,3,5- and 2,4,5-TCPSO 2 Mes did not. On the other hand, 1,2,4-TCB and 2,3,5-TCPSO 2 Me markedly enhanced the ALA synthetase activity. No change was observed in this enzyme activity after the administration of 2,4,5-TCPSO 2 Me. After the administration of 1,2,4-TCB to the rats treated with dl -buthionine-( S , R )-sulfoximine (BSO) and to the non-BSO-treated rats, the concentrations of both 2,3,5- and 2,4,5-TCPSO 2 Mes were significantly lower in liver of the BSO-treated rats than in liver of the non-BSO-treated rats. Additionally, the 1,2,4-TCB did not elevate the ALA synthetase activity in the BSO-treated rats. On the other hand, the administration of 2,3,5-TCPSO 2 Me to BSO-treated rats resulted in induction of ALA synthetase. The results strongly suggest that the methyl sulfone derived from 1,2,4-TCB, i.e., 2,3,5-TCPSO 2 Me, contributes highly to the induction of the ALA synthetase activity by the parent compound.
Vapor sorption isotherms on dry Woodburn soil at 20-30 /sup 0/C were determined for benzene, chlorobenzene, p-di-chlorobenzene, m-dichlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, and water as single vapors and for benzene, m-dichlorobenzene, and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene as functions of relative humidity (RH). Isotherms for all compounds on dry soil samples are distinctively nonlinear, with water showing the greatest capacity. Water vapor sharply reduced the sorption capacities of organic compounds with the dry soil; on water-saturated soil, the reduction was about 2 orders of magnitude. The markedly higher sorption of organic vapors at subsaturation humidities is attributed to adsorption on the mineral matter, which predominates over the simultaneous uptake by partition into the organic matter. At about 90% RH, the sorption capacities of organic compounds become comparable to those in aqueous systems. The effect of humidity is attributed to adsorptive displacement by water of organics adsorbed on the mineral matter. A small residual uptake is attributed to the partition into the soil-organic phase that has been postulated in aqueous systems. The results are essentially in keeping with the model that was previously proposed for sorption on the soil from water and from organic solvents.
The cobalt-catalysed methoxycarbonylation of polysubstituted bromo,fluoro- and chloro,fluorobenzenes and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene with emphasis on the chemo- and regio-selectivity of the reaction is described. The structures of isolated products of 1,4-dichloro-2-fluorobenzene carbonylation were determined by single-crystal X-ray diffraction. The fact that the fluorine substituents in the studied compounds remain intact indicates in favor of the anion-radical activation of aryl halides by a cobalt catalyst. For the first time, a universal method of preparation of the various fluorobenzoic acid derivatives from available raw materials with a good yield has been elaborated.
Melting curves, viscosities and densities have been determined for the mixtures of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene + n-decane and + n-tetradecane. Derived thermodynamic excess properties (excess Gibbs energy gE and excess volume vE) can be combined with literature data on trichlorobenzene + n-alkane systems to establish an unusual trend of mixing properties with chain length of n-alkane. Also viscosities of equimolar mixtures of trichlorobenzene with various n-alkanes and of benzene with various n-alkanes have been measured, in order to collect more material on the behaviour of n-alkane mixtures.
Light scattering, viscosity and GPC measurements were performed on a homologous series of linear polyethylenes with viscosity average molar masses in decahydronaphthalene at 135°C between 1,0 · 105 and 2,7 · 106 g · mol−1 and relatively broad molar mass distributions. 1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene, α-chloronaphthalene, decahydronaphthalene (decalin) and decane were used as solvents. In the case of linear polyethylene in decahydronaphthalene and decane relationships between intrinsic viscosity and weight average molar mass were established. The values of the weight average molar masses obtained by light scattering are considerably higher than those obtained by viscosity and GPC measurements. These discrepancies are explained by molecular aggregation of the polyethylene macromolecules.
We examined sorption of two apolar compounds in three samples of macromolecular natural organic matter (NOM) in order to test whether history-dependent ("irreversible") behaviors, including sorption hysteresis and the conditioning effect, agree with a pore deformation/creation hypothesis applicable to the glassy organic solid state as proposed in the polymer literature. The compounds are 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) and naphthalene (Naph). The NOM samples are a soil humic acid (H-HA), an Al3+-exchanged form of the same humic acid (Al-HA), and a low-rank coal (Beulah-Zap lignite, BZL). The HAs, at least, are believed free of environmental black carbon. The degree of nonlinearity in the isotherm and the ratio of hole-filling to solid-phase dissolution increased in the order of hardness (stiffness) of the solid: H-HA < Al-HA < BZL. Independent of solid, solutes show a 14-18 kJ/mol preference for hole "sites" as compared to dissolution "sites", which we attribute to the free energy needed in the dissolution domain to create a cavity to accommodate the solute. All solids exhibited hysteresis and the conditioning effect, which refers to enhanced re-sorption after pretreatment with a conditioning agent (in this case, chlorobenzene). Conditioning the sample results in increased sorption and increased contribution of hole-filling relative to dissolution. The effects of original hole population, matrix stiffness, and solute concentration on the hysteresis index and on the magnitude of the conditioning effect are consistent with a pore-deformation mechanism as the underlying cause of sorption irreversibility. This mechanism involves concurrent processes of irreversible hole expansion and the creation of new holes by the incoming sorbate (or conditioning agent). The results show that nonlinear and irreversible behavior may be expected for macromolecular forms of NOM that are in a glassy state and emphasize the case that NOM is not a passive sorbent but may be physically altered by the sorbate.
The catalytic hydrogenolysis of hexachlorobenzene and hexachlorocyclohexanes (isomer mixture) on a nickel–chromia catalyst and hexachlorobenzene hydrogenolysis intermediates (1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, 1,2-dichlorobenzene, and chlorobenzene) are studied. The hydrogenation of an aromatic ring does not occur in the presence of chemisorbed chlorine atoms on the catalyst surface. A reaction mechanism for chlorobenzene hydrogenation was proposed taking into account experimental evidence that, in the presence of chemisorbed chlorine on the catalyst surface, hydrogen in a dissociated state is firmly bound to the surface. It is found that the desorption of the resulting hydrogen chloride is the slowest step in chlorobenzene hydrogenolysis. The hydrogenolysis of hexachlorocyclohexanes occurs via a dehydrochlorination stage with the formation of trichlorobenzenes, which are subsequently converted into chlorobenzene and benzene.
The effects and fate in fish of a number of chemicals, including hydrocarbons and chlorinated hydrocarbons, have been examined. The interactions between these chemicals and fish have been studied using several approaches. The uptake and elimination of 14C-labeled napthalene, 2-methylnapthalene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, pentachlorophenol, and pentachloroanisole were studied. Each of these chemicals was taken up rapidly by rainbow trout. Increasing the duration of exposure to 14C-napthalene or 14C-2-methylnapthalene affected the elimination of 14C-containing components from these fish. Activities of cytochrome P-450-related xenobiotic metabolizing enzymes in rainbow trout livers were induced. The quantities of biliary metabolites in these fish were considerably higher than those found in non-induced trout. Piperonyl butoxide reduced levels of biliary metabolites of pentachloranisole and di-2-ethylhexyl-phthalate in trout and increased tissue levels of these chemicals. The high levels of biotransformation products of these chemicals found in fish bile during and after exposure to the chemicals in these studies support the possible use of bile sampling in pollutant-modelling programs.
The chlororespiring anaerobe Dehalococcoides sp. strain CBDB1 used hexachlorobenzene and pentachlorobenzene as electron acceptors in an energy-conserving process with hydrogen as electron donor. Previous attempts to grow Dehalococcoides sp. strain CBDB1 with hexachlorobenzene or pentachlorobenzene as electron acceptors failed if these compounds were provided as solutions in hexadecane. However, Dehalococcoides sp. strain CBDB1 was able to grow with hexachlorobenzene or pentachlorobenzene when added in crystalline form directly to cultures. Growth of Dehalococcoides sp. strain CBDB1 by dehalorespiration resulted in a growth yield ( Y) of 2.1+/-0.24 g protein/mol Cl(-) released with hexachlorobenzene as electron acceptor; with pentachlorobenzene, the growth yield was 2.9+/-0.15 g/mol Cl(-). Hexachlorobenzene was reductively dechlorinated to pentachlorobenzene, which was converted to a mixture of 1,2,3,5- and 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene. Formation of 1,2,3,4-tetrachlorobenzene was not detected. The final end-products of hexachlorobenzene and pentachlorobenzene dechlorination were 1,3,5-trichlorobenzene, 1,3- and 1,4-dichlorobenzene, which were formed in a ratio of about 3:2:5. As reported previously, Dehalococcoides sp. strain CBDB1 converted 1,2,3,5-tetrachlorobenzene exclusively to 1,3,5-trichlorobenzene, and 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene exclusively to 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. The organism therefore catalyzes two different pathways to dechlorinate highly chlorinated benzenes. In the route leading to 1,3,5-trichlorobenzene, only doubly flanked chlorine substituents were removed, while in the route leading to 1,3-and 1,4-dichlorobenzene via 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene singly flanked chlorine substituents were also removed. Reductive dehalogenase activity measurements using whole cells pregrown with different chlorobenzene congeners as electron acceptors indicated that different reductive dehalogenases might be induced by the different electron acceptors. To our knowledge, this is the first report describing reductive dechlorination of hexachlorobenzene and pentachlorobenzene via dehalorespiration by a pure bacterial culture.
A γ-hexachlorocyclohexane (HCH)-degrading bacterium, Sphingomonas sp. MM-1, was isolated from soil contaminated with HCH isomers. Cultivation of MM-1 in the presence of γ-HCH led to the detection of five γ-HCH metabolites, γ-pentachlorocyclohexene, 2,5-dichloro-2,5-cyclohexadiene-1,4-diol, 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, and 2,5-dichlorophenol, strongly suggesting that MM-1 has the lin genes for γ-HCH degradation originally identified in the well-studied γ-HCH-degrading strain Sphingobium japonicum UT26. Southern blot, PCR amplification, and sequencing analyses indicated that MM-1 has seven lin genes for the conversion of γ-HCH to β-ketoadipate (six structural genes, linA to linF, and one regulatory gene, linR). MM-1 carried four plasmids, of 200, 50, 40, and 30 kb. Southern blot analysis revealed that all seven lin genes were dispersed across three of the four plasmids, and that IS6100, often found close to the lin genes, was present on all four plasmids.
A -hexachlorocyclohexane (HCH)-degrading bacterium, Sphingomonas sp. MM-1, was isolated from soil contaminated with HCH isomers. Cultivation of MM-1 in the presence of -HCH led to the detection of five -HCH metabolites, -pentachlorocyclohexene, 2,5-dichloro-2,5-cyclohexadiene-1,4-diol, 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, and 2,5-dichlorophenol, strongly suggesting that MM-1 has the lin genes for -HCH degradation originally identified in the wellstudied -HCH-degrading strain Sphingobium japonicum UT26. Southern blot, PCR amplification, and sequencing analyses indicated that MM-1 has seven lin genes for the conversion of -HCH to -ketoadipate (six structural genes, linA to linF, and one regulatory gene, linR). MM-1 carried four plasmids, of 200, 50, 40, and 30 kb. Southern blot analysis revealed that all seven lin genes were dispersed across three of the four plasmids, and that IS6100, often found close to the lin genes, was present on all four plasmids.
The coordination number of the gadolinium atom and bond distances in the crystal of inonomeric porphyrinate,[Gd(TPP)acac-8H2O 3TCB] (TCB: 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene,acac: anion of acetylacetone),were determined by EXAFS method.The Gd atom is eight-coordinated to the four nitrogen atoms of a tetraphenylporphyrin ring,to the two oxygen atoms of one acetylacetonato anion and to two water molecules with Gd-N=0.232 nm,Gd-O=0.243 nm.
The authors examined the uptake of three hydrophobic chemicals, TCB (1,2,4-trichlorobenzene), PeCB (1,2,3,4,5-pentachlorobenzene), and HCBP (2,2{prime}, 4,4{prime},6,6{prime}-hexachlorobiphenyl), by unfed juvenile rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) in test aquaria containing sediments from the Fraser River. The working hypothesis was that the low organic carbon content of the Fraser River sediments would increase the bioavailability of xenobiotics associated with these sediments. The test chemicals and sediments were introduced into aquaria 9 d before the fish were introduced.Measured concentrations of he chemicals in the bottom sediments, suspended sediments, and filtered (0.45 {micro}m) water suggested that the test system had reached a quasiequilibrium state by day 9. Subsequently, a 6-d exposure of fish in the test aquaria resulted in a significant accumulation of the test chemicals in the fish tissues and significant reductions in the chemical concentration of the bottom sediments, suspended sediments, and filtered water. Mass balance analysis suggests that the appearance of HCBP and PeCB in the fish after 6 d could not be accounted for solely by the amount of chemical dissolved in the water at the time when the fish were introduced. A large unaccounted-for fraction of TCB, possibly due to fish metabolism, precluded an accurate mass balance analysis for thismore » chemical. Because chemical uptake in fish with the pharynx plugged (to eliminate the gut uptake route) was similar to that in control fish and because direct access to bottom sediments did not alter chemical uptake, the authors conclude that hydrophobic chemicals such as PeCB and HCBP associated with suspended sediments from the Fraser River can readily desorb and be taken up across the gill.« less
Publisher Summary This chapter discusses the hydrodechiorination of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene on Ni/Al-MCM-41 catalysts. Several Ni/Al-MCM-41 catalysts are prepared by the incipient wetness method followed by calcination and reduction. These catalysts are highly active (100%) and selective (100%) toward benzene in the hydrodechlorination of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene in the gas phase at mild conditions of work: 1 atm pressure and reaction temperatures between 473–523K. This catalytic behavior has been correlated with the structural characteristics of the catalysts.
Cells of the diatom Cyclotella meneghiniana were exposed in a closed system to 0.245 ppm 1,3,5-trichlorobenzene. Response of the diatom was measured by quantitative ultrastructure and fatty acid percent composition over a 5-day period. During that time, 28 significant morphological and 13 significant fatty acid percent composition changes occurred. Autophagic-like vacuoles were observed consistently through the sampling periods. In comparison with exposure to 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, 1,3,5-trichlorobenzene exerts fewer effects in the parameters studied, and these effects were observed most frequently in membranous components during the initial eight hours of exposure. It is suggested that the amount of cellular lipid and the relative reactivity of the isomer are responsible for the observed effects.
Abstract Carbon nanotube addition has been shown to improve the mechanical properties of some polymers. Because of their unique adsorptive properties, carbon nanotubes may also improve the barrier performance of polymers used in contaminant containment. This study compares the barrier performance of poly(vinyl alcohol) (PVA) membranes containing single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWCNTs) to that for PVA containing powdered activated carbon (PAC). Raw and surface-functionalized versions of each sorbent were tested for their abilities to adsorb 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and Cu 2+ , representing the important hydrophobic organic and heavy metal contaminant classes, as they diffused across the PVA. In both cases, PAC (for 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene) and functionalized PAC (for Cu 2+ ) outperformed SWCNTs on a per mass basis by trapping more of the contaminants within the barrier membrane. Kinetics of sorption are important in evaluating barrier properties, and poor performance of SWCNT-containing membranes as 1,2,4-TCB barriers is attributed to kinetic limitations.
The title transformation, particularly the conversion of anthranils into acridones, is shown to be critically sensitive to temperature, solvent, substituent, and metal catalysts. Thus the conversion of 3-(p-tolyl)-anthranil into an acridone gives a ratio of 2- and 3-methyl derivatives varying from 0.6:1 to 4.7:1 with changing temperature and solvent. In other similar thermolyses, solvents (e.g. 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene) were incorporated into the product and traces of metals and their derivatives had a dramatic effect on the rate and course of the reaction. The most effective catalysts were iron powder and aluminium acetylacetonate. 3-(2,6-Disubstituted phenyl)anthranils gave acridones in which the substituents were either lost or rearranged onto N or C, the last cases involving sequential [1,5]-sigmatropic shifts.3-Thienylanthranils gave related thienoquinolones on thermolysis; again the reactions were very sensitive to catalysis. Blocked thienylanthranils also gave rearrangement products, but the non-aromatic intermediates could be isolated.
Abstract Three groups composed of rats, rabbits, and monkeys were exposed for 26 weeks to 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (-TCB), and one group of each species was used as a control group. TTie nominal exposure concentrations of 1,2,4-TCB were 25.0, 50.0, and 100.0 ppm. Pulmonary function and operant behavior tests in monkeys, ophthalmoscopic examinations in rabbits and monkeys, and measurement of body weights and hematologic and serum biochemical determinations in all species were conducted before and during the exposure period. At termination of 1, 3, and 6 months of exposure, microscopic examination of selected rat tissues was performed. Microscopic changes were seen in the parenchymal cells of livers and kidneys from all groups of rats exposed to 1,2,4-TCB when sacrificed after 4 and 13 weeks of exposure, but no exposure-related abnormalities or other effects were seen after 26 weeks of exposure in any species.
The groundwater resources of the U.S. have been extensively contaminated by a wide variety of organic pollutants. The sorption-desorption process is one of the most important processes influencing contaminant movement in groundwater systems. Laboratory experiments were performed and mathematical models were developed and used to analyze sorption and desorption processes of hydrophobic organic solutes to subsurface materials. The work included consideration of both single and multisolute systems, while experiments were performed in both batch and one-dimensional column reactor systems. Mathematical model development included a variety of batch, one-dimensional, and two-dimensional models for simulating single and multicomponent sorption processes described by nonlinear equilibrium expressions and diffusional rate models. Petrov-Galerkin finite element methods were used to accommodate sharp-front problems, while sorption rates were simulated using a method of lines solution procedure. Numerical procedures used also included operator splitting methods and consideration of parallel processing. A complete and consistent set of multicomponent sorption rate and equilibrium experiments were performed for both solid materials using the solute lindane and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. These experiments reinforced the findings that time scales for equilibration are on the order of months, and sorption equilibrium relationships are nonlinear. Competition was not observed in batch experiments, either with regard to sorptionmore » equilibrium or with regard to the rate of sorption. This lack of competition did not agree well with predictions made using ideal adsorbed solution theory. However, significant competition was observed in a set of column experiments. It is concluded that column experiments provide a more sensitive indicator of competitive sorption than batch experiments.« less
A novel synthetic scheme for constructing cyclic porphyrin oligomers is presented: bisporphyrin derivative 1 reacts with La(acac)3 in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene to yield porphyrin polygons, such as cyclic dimer 12·2La(III) and cyclic trimer 13·3La(III).
Abstract High-temperature two-dimensional liquid chromatography (HT 2D-LC) was developed for the separation and characterization of functional polyolefins. Therefore, the key experimental parameters, namely the injection volume, the mobile phase composition, the flow rate in SEC and the time and phase of sampling into the second dimension, were systematically varied and their influence on the resolution of separation were studied. The HPLC separation of ethylene-vinylacetate waxes was realized using silica gel as stationary phase and a solvent gradient decalin → cyclohexanone, while SEC separations were realized in the chromatographic system polystyrene divinyl benzene column/1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. By choosing suitable experimental parameters, the run time needed for one complete 2D-LC analysis of a polymer sample was shortened from about 200 min to 100 min. However, the developed method failed to adsorb polypropylene and ethylene/1-butene copolymers grafted with 13 or 3 mol.% of methyl methacrylate respectively. Using porous graphite as a stationary phase and a solvent gradient 1-decanol → 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene as mobile phase 2D-LC separations of both grafted polyolefins were realized.
Abstract. Cells of the diatom Cyclotella meneghiniana were exposed in a closed system to 0.245 ppm 1,3,5-trichlorobenzene. Response of the diatom was measured by quantitative ultrastructure and fatty acid percent composition over a 5-day period. During that time, 28 significant morphological and 13 significant fatty acid percent composition changes occurred. Autophagic-like vacuoles were observed consistently through the sampling periods. In comparison with exposure to 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, 1,3,5-trichlorobenzene exerts fewer effects in the parameters studied, and these effects were observed most frequently in membranous components during the initial eight hours of exposure. It is suggested that the amount of cellular lipid and the relative reactivity of the isomer are responsible for the observed effects.
Downloaded from the University of Groningen/UMCG research database (Pure): http://www.rug.nl/research/portal. For technical reasons the number of authors shown on this cover page is limited to 10 maximum. Chromatograph equipped with a differential refractive index detector and calibrated using polystyrene standards. Samples were run in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (145ºC), using three Shodex GPC AT-80 M/S columns in series. Numerical analyses were performed using Expert Ease® software available from Waters Corporation.
Liquid-phase degradation of PVC blended with PE was examined. In solutions in 1,2,3-trichloropropane and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, the rate of thermal degradation of PVC blended with PE rises with an increase in PE content in the blend, as compared to the rate of dehydrochlorination of pure PVC in these solvents. In cyclohexanol, however, it decreases, while in coprecipitated PVC-PE powders, the latter component has no effect on thermal stability of PVC. The effect of PE on the thermal stability of PVC is essentially dependent on the physical state of PVC in the polymer blend (presence or absence of a solvent) and on the nature of solvent, in the case of liquid-phase degradation
Abstract The rate of sorption and desorption of substituted benzenes was investigated in a series of batch and column experiments using surface-modified silica of known chemical composition. Porous silicas with patchy surface coatings of aliphatic-chain groups (C 1 , C 8 and C 18 ) and an aliphatic chain terminating in a phenyl group were prepared; these were less hydrophobic and more easily wetted by water than similar, commercially available, chromatography materials. The surfaces were chosen to represent important functional groups found in soil and aquifer materials. Batch desorption of p-nitrobenzene, nitrotoluene, 1,4-dichlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, and 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene required up to 100 hours to reach equilibrium. Slow sorption and desorption of 1,4-dichlorobenzene in column experiments was evidenced by tailing in breakthrough curves. Results were interpreted considering three possible rate-limiting steps: diffusion through immobile liquid, diffusion through a bound organic phase, and slow chemical binding and release. Diffusion through immobile fluid caused some but not all of the observed slow sorption, as evidenced by experiments with different particle size and pore size (toruosity). Desorption on C 8 - and C 18 - modified silicas was at least one order of magnitude faster than on phenyl and C 1 surfaces, illustrating the importance of the nature of the surface organic phase. Simple diffusion through the bound organic phase is not an adequate explanation for the behavior, due to the small distances. Slow binding and release at strong sites for sorption of 1,4-dichlorobenzene on the phenyl-polymer-modified silica apparently caused most of the observed tailing. First-order rate coefficients observed for all modified surfaces were in the range of 10 −4 -10 −1 s −1 . As equilibrium is reached within hours, slow sorption is observed at the laboratory scale, but local equilibrium applies to most field situations.
Abstract Alkali-modified Pd (wt%)/HT catalysts, where HT is calcined Mg/Al hydrotalcite (Mg(Al)O), were studied for the HDC reaction of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene at mild conditions (atmospheric pressure and 373 K) using a continuous reactor. Characterization of the alkali-modified Pd/HT catalysts by H 2 -chemisorption, N 2 -physisorption, SEM, HRTEM and CO 2 -TPD analysis revealed different textural, metallic and basic properties depending on the type of alkaline metal and precursor. The hydrodechlorination reaction of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene was strongly dependent on the type of alkaline additives (Li, Na or Cs) and alkaline precursors (OH − or NO 3 − ). The basic properties of the catalysts showed a predominant role in activity, selectivity and stability of the catalysts. Furthermore the HDC catalytic activity is highly dependent in the intrinsic property of alkali metal species. The affinity of the chloride produced during the reaction to the strong basic alkali surface contributes for the higher stability of the alkali-modified catalyst. Calcination–reduction and reduction treatments were employed to regenerate the catalyst. The initial catalytic activity was recovered when the used sample was regenerated by reduction treatment.
1. After intraperitoneal administration, gamma-hexachlorocyclohexane (Gammexane) and gamma-2,3,4,5,6-pentachlorocyclohex-1-ene were converted by rats into 2,3,5- and 2,4,5-trichlorophenol, which were excreted as free phenols and as sulphuric acid and glucuronic acid conjugates. 2. Derivatives of 2,4,5-trichlorophenol and 2,4,5-trichlorophenyl glucosiduronic acid and 2,4-dichlorophenylmercapturic acid were isolated from the urine as metabolites of gamma-2,3,4,5,6-pentachlorocyclohex-1-ene. 3. The phenolic metabolites of gamma-hexachlorocyclohexane and gamma-2,3,4,5,6-pentachlorocyclohex-1-ene isolated from urine were similar to those of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, which indicates that the two latter compounds are intermediates in gamma-hexachlorocyclohexane metabolism in rats.
Effects and kinetics of photocatalytic degradation of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene with composite photocatalysts of TiO2 coated on carbon nanotubes and nano-TiO2 photocatalysts were studied,respectively.It was found that the composite photocatalysts was better than the nano-TiO2 for photocatalytic degradation of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene.After 60 min UV irradiation at 254 nm,there was 70% of the initial 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene degraded with the composite photocatalyst while only 51% of the initial 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene degraded with the nano-TiO2.Results of photocatalytic degradation kinetics also proved that the 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene degradation rate constant with the composite photocatalyst was 0.019 6 h-1,which was increased by 63.3% compared to that with nano-TiO2.According to molecular structure theory,analysis of dissociation energy of C—Cl bond of chlorobenzenes predicated that main pathway of photocatalytic degradation of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene followed that its ortho-Cl could be took off first to form 1,4-dichlorobenzene,and it might be further dechlorized and finally be mineralized.The first step of photodechlorination for 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene was also experimentally confirmed through identified 1,4-dichlorobenzene as its product.
The effects of the solvent type and operation conditions on the high-temperature thermal gradient interaction chromatography (HT-TGIC) of ethylene homopolymers, ethylene–1-octene copolymers, and their blends are investigated. While the HT-TGIC profiles of single polymers measured with 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) and chloronaphthalene (CN) are similar, they are always narrower when o-dichlorobenzene (ODCB) is used, particularly for samples with lower 1-octene fractions. Significant differences between the experimental and the calculated profiles of binary blends are observed with all three solvents, but better peak separation is seen when the ODCB is used. Having higher fractions of a 1-octene-poor component in the blend causes a more significant distortion of the shape expected for the peak from the component with the higher 1-octene fraction. The effect of the molecular weight on HT-TGIC profiles is also studied using samples with the same comonomer content and different molecular weights. Samples with low molecular weight have broader distributions and significant lower-temperature tails, particularly when TCB is used. Chain crystallization after adsorption effects may also play a minor role for low-comonomer samples. Finally, HT-TGIC profiles are compared with their equivalent crystallization elution fractionation (CEF) profiles. The HT-TGIC curves are broader than the equivalent CEF profiles, but these differences decrease as the comonomer content increases.
Abstract The simultaneous separation and determination of a mixture of hydrocarbons and organochlorine compounds was successfully carried out by using sorption chromatography on a two-step microcolumn of silica and aluminium oxide for their fractionation, and a dual detector system. In addition to the separation and identification of hydrocarbons and heterocompounds containing nitrogen, oxygen and sulphur atoms, separation and identification of chlorinated hydrocarbons (dichlorobenzenes, p -chlorotoluene, hexachlorobutadiene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and 2-chloronaphthalene), pesticides (chlorpicrin, aldrin, lindane, α-and β-benzene hexachloride (BHC), endrin, dieldrin, endosulphan, methoxychlor) and herbicides (propanil, dichlobenil, trifluralin, difolatan) were achieved in mixtures containing polychlorinated biphenyl, strobane and chlordane.
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene (TCB) and 1,2,4-tribromobenzene (TBB) were administered for 7 d to rats at a dose of 1 mmol/kg.d. The animals were sacrificed at various times to observe the decline in enzyme induction. Carbon 14-labeled TCB and TBB were administered and the disposition of the radioactivity was determined. The influence of starvation and phenobarbital on the inductive effects of TCB and TBB was observed. p-Nitroanisole demethylation and EPN (O-ethyl O-p-nitrophenyl phenylphosphonothionate) detoxification increases declined with time but were still elevated 16 d after the last dose of TBB. Cytochorme P-450 and NADPH-cytochrome c reductase were alsoinduced. Tissue analysis showed greater retention of TBB than of TCB, with highest levels in the fats. More TCB than TBB was excreted in the urine, and fecal excretion was only 5-10% of the dose. The highest enzyme levels were found after 4 d of starvation following the 7 d of treatment and 6 d of recovery. Starvation resulted in increased plasma, fat, and liver concentrations and increased urinary excretion of 14C after TBB dosing. Phenobarbital treatment decreased the levels of induction by the halogenated benzenes. The results demonstrate that, on an equimolar basis, TBB leads to higher levels of induction that are maintained for longer periods than does TCB. Treatments, such as starvation and phenobarbital, that after storage in fat of these materials change the decline with time of the level of induction.
Abstract Ni 2 P and CoP catalysts (5 wt.% of metal) supported on a commercial SiO 2 were tested in the gas phase catalytic hydrodechlorination (HDCl) of mono (chlorobenzene-ClB) and polychlorobenzenes (PCBs) (1,2- dichlorobenzene (1,2-DClB), 1,3-dichlorobenzene (1,3-DClB), 1,4-dichlorobenzene (1,4-DClB), and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TClB)) at atmospheric pressure. It was investigated how the number and position of chlorine atoms in the molecule influence the HDCl activity. The prepared catalysts were characterized by X-ray diffraction (XRD), CO chemisorption, N 2 adsorption–desorption at −196 °C, and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). Characterization results indicated better active phase dispersion and greater amount of P on the Ni 2 P catalyst surface. Catalytic results showed that the Ni 2 P was more active and stable in this type of reactions. The hydrodechlorination activity decreased by increasing the number of chlorine atoms in the molecule and chlorine substituents in close proximity. The observed trend in the HDCl activity was: ClB > 1,4-DClB > 1,3-DClB > 1,2-DClB > 1,2,4-TClB. The exception was the catalytic response after 24 h on stream observed for the Ni 2 P in the HDCl reaction of 1,2,4-TClB, which was equal to that observed for the 1,4-DClB molecule, and also yielding benzene as the main reaction product.
A new synthesis of 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxyacetic add (2,4,5-T) is described. ::: ::: ::: ::: A mixture of the insecticidally inactive α- and β-isomers of hexachlorocyclohexane, obtained as a by-product in the manufacture of the γ-isomer is converted into 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. After converting the 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene into 2,5-dichlorophenol, the latter is reacted with monochloroacetic add to 2,5-dichlorophenoxyacetic add and chlorinated into 2,4,5-T. The overall yield of 2,4,5-T calculated on H.C.H. is ca. 40-50%.
The feasibility of the rapid degradation of hexachlorobenzene (HCB) by micron-size silver (Ag)/iron (Fe) particles was investigated. Ag/Fe particles with different ratios (0, 0.05%, 0.09%, 0.20%, and 0.45%) were prepared by electroless silver plating on 300 mesh Fe powder, and were used to degrade HCB at different pH values and temperatures. The dechlorination ability of Fe greatly increased with small Ag addition, whereas too much added Ag would cover the Fe surface and reduce the effective reaction surface, thereby decreasing the extent of dechlorination. The optimal Ag/Fe ratio was 0.09%. Tafel polarization curves showed that HCB was rapidly degraded at neutral or acidic pH, whereas low pH levels severely intensified H2 production, which consumed the reducing electrons needed for the HCB degradation. HCB degradation was more sensitive to temperature than pH. The rate constant of HCB dechlorination was 0.452 min- at 85 degrees C, 50 times higher than that at 31 degrees C. HCB was degraded in a successive dechlorination pathway, yielding the main products 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene within 2 hr.
The covalent attachment of [60] fullerene (C60) to isotactic polypropylene (i-PP) is achieved by direct reaction in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) solution in the presence of dicumyl peroxide (DCP). The chemically modified pendant C60/i-PP polymers are soluble in chlorinated solvents and have been characterized by ultraviolet–visible and fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, scanning electron microscopy, X-ray diffraction, differential scanning calorimetry, cyclic voltametry, and thermogravimetric analysis. From the results it can be concluded that the modification of i-PP by grafting via a free-radical reaction competes with the possibility of chain scission of i-PP due to the presence of DCP. The functionalized polymers crystallize in the monoclinic crystal modification, and have high crystallinity. The incorporation of C60 significantly enhances the thermal stability of the i-PP. Electrochemical measurements demonstrate good electron acceptor properties of the fullerenated i-PP samples. © 2008 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Polym Sci Part A: Polym Chem 46: 6722–6733, 2008
Mixed pollution is a characteristic of many industrial sites and constructed wetlands. Plants possessing an enzymatic detoxifying system that is able to handle xenobiotics seems to be a viable option for the removal of mixed persistent contaminants such organochlorines (OCs: monochlorobenzene (MCB), 1,4-dichlorobenzene (DCB), 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB), γ-hexachlorocyclohexane (HCH)). In this study, Phragmites australis plants were exposed to sub-lethal concentrations of OCs (7 days), in single-exposure (0.8 to 10 mg l−1) and in mixture of OCs (0.2 mg l−1 MCB + 0.2 mg l−1 DCB + 2.5 mg l−1 TCB + 0.175 mg l−1 HCH). Studies were conducted on the detoxification phase II enzymes; glutathione S-transferases (GST), and glucosyltransferases (UGT). Measurements of GST and UGT activities revealed that OCs may be buffered by glutathione and glucose conjugation. There appeared to be a correlation between the effects on phase II enzymes and the degree of chlorination of the benzene ring with, for example, the greatest effects being obtained for HCH exposure. In the case of mixed pollution, the induction of some GST isoenzymes (CDNB, 35 % non-significant) and UGT (118 %) in leaves and the inhibition of phase II enzymes in the other organs were measured. UGTs appear to be key enzymes in the detoxification of OCs.
Abstract Benzene and certain halogenated benzenes at a dose of 5.0 mmol/kg, ip, increased bile duct-pancreatic fluid (BDPF) flow and decreased its protein concentration 24 hr after treatment. Agents which produced this effect were benzene, bromobenzene (BB), chlorobenzene, 1,2-dichlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, and 1,3,5-trichlorobenzene. 1,4-Dichlorobenzene had no effect. The mechanism by which these hydrocarbons increase BDPF flow is not known, but it does not involve secretin or cholinergic stimulation of the pancreas. Moreover, the increase in BDPF flow does not occur secondary to liver damage because benzene and 1,2-dichlorobenzene which did not increase SGPT activity increased BDPF flow and reduced its protein concentration. Also pretreatments known to protect against or potentiate BB-induced liver necrosis did not consistently alter effects of BB on the pancreas. This lack of parallelism between effects of BB on the two organs suggests that the mechanism by which BB produces liver necrosis is different from that for increasing BDPF flow.
The biodegradation of radiochemically pure (99%) 1,2,3- and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) in soil was investigated. Experimental difficulties posed by the high volatility and slow biodegradation rate of the TCBs were partially overcome by using a specially designed incubation and trapping apparatus. Evolution of (14)CO(2) from active versus poisoned soil dosed with 50 mug of the individual TCBs per g gave conclusive proof that both isomers are biodegradable. At 20 degrees C, 1,2,4-TCB was mineralized at an approximate rate of 1 nmol/day per 20 g of soil sample, and 1,2,3-TCB was mineralized at one-half to one-third that rate. Mineral fertilizers or cosubstrates failed to increase TCB mineralization rates in soil. Anaerobic conditions had a negative effect on mineralization, and increased temperatures had a positive effect. With increasing 1,2,4-TCB concentrations, (14)CO(2) evolution exhibited saturation kinetics with an apparent K(m) of 55.5 nmol per g of soil. Recovery of total radioactivity was good from soil containing high organic matter concentrations. From low-organic-matter soil, some of the radioactivity was recovered only on combustion, and overall recovery was lower. In soil-inoculated liquid culture, the cosubstrates glucose and benzene caused a slight stimulation of 1,2,4-TCB mineralization. Cochromatography of known standards with the extracts of soil pretreated with [(14)C]TCBs indicated that 3,4,5-trichlorophenol, 2,6-dichlorophenol and, to a lesser degree, 2,3-dichlorophenol were present in soils incubated with 1,2,3-TCB. 2,4-, 2,5-, and 3,4-dichlorophenol were present in soils incubated with 1,2,4-TCB.
Silver p-tert-butylbenzoate decomposes at 300/sup 0/C to products that retain the tert-butyl group intact. Among these products are five isomeric di-tert-butylbiphenyls, evidently resulting by isomerization of the first-formed p-tert-butylphenyl radical. With labeled benzophenone and benzene, the silver salt gives products in which much protium--deuterium exchange has occurred. The photolyzed silver salt arylates 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene; thermal decomposition in benzonitrile yields triphenyltriazine in addition to the radical arylation product. 9 tables.
In this study, we have investigated the miscibility of octene-mLLDPE/LDPE blends by using SANS and small-angle X-ray scattering (SAXS). The Flory-Huggins interaction parameter () and the radii of gyration (R g ) of the polymer molecules were calculated with the random phase approximation (RPA) for both the melt and the quenched states. The distributions of the hydrogenous (H) and deuterated (D) chain stems in the crystalline lattice are also discussed. Table 1 . Octene-mLLDPE and LDPE (the total amount of the polymers was 0.5-1.0 g) were blended in 350 ml of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene containing about 0.1 g of 2,6-di-tert-butyl-4-methyl phenol (an antioxidant) at 453 K under nitrogen and stirred for 2 h. Then, the solution was quickly coprecipitated in excess methanol at ice-water temperature, filtered on a fine glass filter and washed with acetone. The washed sample was again immersed in several millilitres of acetone containing 0.05 wt% (corresponding to the total amount of the polymer mixture) of the antioxidant for a day and then predried under low vacuum (about 50 mmHg, 1 mmHg = 133 Pa) at room temperature. The predried sample was finally dried under high vacuum (less than 0.01 mmHg) at about 333 K for a week. The blend samples were melted again on a Carver press at 428 K for 10-15 min and pressed to produce flat pellet-type specimens, which were then quenched in ice-water. During the specimen molding process, the cycle of pressurizing the sample for a short time (for example, a half to one minute) and subsequently releasing the pressure was conducted several times to remove any air bubbles possibly trapped in the specimen. The obtained specimens were checked by SAXS analysis before use in this study to ensure that they contained no air bubbles. The thickness of the blend specimens was controlled at 1.50 (1) mm. For the melt miscibility measurements at 413 K, cells with Kapton windows were used to hold the melt samples. After the SANS measurements had been carried out, the blend specimens were quenched in liquid nitrogen, and then room temperature measurements were performed. Table 1 Details of polyethylene samples used in this study.
solvent shifts. The preliminary molecular weights (Mn and Mw) and polydispersity indices (Mw/Mn) were measured by a Waters Alliance GPCV 2000 size exclusion chromatograph (SEC). The SEC columns (four Waters HT 6E and one Waters HT 2) were eluted with 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene containing 0.01 wt % ditert-butylhydroxytoluene (BHT) at 1.0 mL/min at 140°C. DSC analysis was performed on a TA Instruments Q1000 equipped with a liquid nitrogen cooling system and automated sampler. Typical DSC experiments were made in crimped aluminum pans under nitrogen with a heating rate of 10°C/min from -50 to +200°C. The reported DSC data from the second heating run were processed with the TA Q Series software. The T g values of the amorphous P(E-co-P) segments were around -59°C.
The toxicity of chlorobenzenes to Tetrahymena growth metabolism was studied by microcalorimetry. The growth constant (k), peak time (T) and generation times (T(G)) were calculated. IC(50) of chlorobenzenes was obtained through the kinetic parameters. The results suggested that the order of toxicity was 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene>o-dichlorobenzene>p-dichlorobenzene>m-dichlorobenzene>chlorobenzene. ATR-FTIR spectra revealed that amide groups and PO(2)(-) of the phospholipid phospho-diester, both in the hydrophobic end exposed to the outer layer, were the easiest to be damaged. The relationship between IC(50) and chemicals structure parameters (E(LUMO), E(HOMO), logK(OW), ∑Q(R), ΔQ(πR) and ΔE), indicated that the more chlorine atoms were substituted, the greater the toxicity was. Chlorobenzenes have toxicity of non-polar narcosis. Their toxicity is proportional to their concentrations at the site of action, and caused by membrane perturbation.
Dioxin-like chlorinated aromatics and NOx are toxic compounds that are typically co-released from thermal industrial processes. Nevertheless, there are few studies reporting their synergetic disposal technology. A designed two-step coprecipitation method was developed to synthesize a novel three-dimensional ball-like Ce–Ti–Al composite oxide (Ce0.2TiAlαOx) micro/nanomaterial to simultaneously dispose 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TrCBz, as the model compound) and NO in a fixed-bed flow reactor at 300 °C. The prepared Ce0.2TiAlαOx micro/nanomaterial exhibited superior activities to Ce0.2TiOx. This featured the relative increase of 1,2,4-TrCBz degradation and NO conversion efficiencies by 8.0–14.1% and 5.2–33.3%, respectively. NO had a positive effect on the degradation of 1,2,4-TrCBz and induced a significant increase in the activity of the Ce0.2TiAlαOx catalysts. In the presence of NO, 1,2,4-TrCBz was slightly dechlorinated in a stepwise manner to monochlorobenzene and oxidized to small molecules such as formic acid. The oxidative degradation pathway of 1,2,4-TrCBz over Ce0.2TiAlαOx was proposed to proceed via the Mars–van Krevelen mechanism that accounts for the high mobility of the reactive oxygen species, such as O2−, O2−, and O−, the unique redox properties of CeO2, the positive effect of NO, and the interactive effect among the different material components.
A study was undertaken to find means by which bacteria may degrade phenanthrene initially dissolved in toxic nonaqueous-phase liquids (NAPLs). In shaken cultures containing 5% NAPLs, bacteria readily mineralized phenanthrene initially present in di-n-butyl phthalate or 2,2,4,4,6,8,8-heptamethylnonane but not in 1,2-dichlorobenzene, toluene, 2-chlorotoluene, or 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. Attempts to acclimate bacteria to tolerate higher concentrations of the first two NAPLs were unsuccessful. However, bacteria sensitive to 1,2-dichlorobenzene and toluene extensively degraded phenanthrene initially present in these toxic NAPLs in a system containing the toxic NAPL, a water phase, and a separate nontoxic NAPL to lower the toxicant concentration in the aqueous phase.
In the presence of scandium triflate and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, the reaction gives acridinones (III) via oxidation of the initially formed Diels—Alder adducts.
The influence of natural organic matter (NOM) rigidity on the sorption, desorption, and competitive displacement rates of 1,2-Dichlorobenzene (1,2-DCB) was evaluated using batch reactor experiments with two surface soils (Yolo and Forbes) and a shale (Ohio). Previous characterization suggests that the shale NOM is the most reduced and condensed, the Yolo soil is the most oxidized and amorphous, and Forbes soil has an intermediate NOM structure. The rate study for each sorbent was conducted under the same reactor parameters, and 1,2-DCB mass-transfer rates were determined using the distributed first-order mass-transfer rate model based on the gamma probability density function. To measure competitive displacement rates, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) was delivered as a competitor after 34 days pre-equilibration. Higher fractions of contaminant subject to instantaneous mass transfer and much faster rates of approach to apparent sorption equilibrium are found in Yolo soil when compared with Forbes soil and the shale. The size of the instantaneously desorbing fraction thus appears inversely related to the hard carbon fraction. In the NOM compartment where mass transfer is rate-limited, rate coefficient distributions are shifted toward lower rates for desorption and competitive displacement of 1,2-DCB in Ohio shale, followed by Forbes soil. Sorption and desorption rate distributions are almost the same for the shale, while desorption rates are a few times greater than sorption rates in Yolo and Forbes soils. Mass-transfer coefficients for competitive displacement are considerably slower than those for desorption in Forbes soil and the shale. However, the mass-transfer rates for the two processes seem to be similar in Yolo soil, which has a NOM matrix comprising a relatively larger soft organic carbon fraction. The concept of "solute induced softening" is discussed as a mechanistic rationale for the experimental observations.
A fluvo-aquic soil from Shandong Province was artificially contaminated with hexachlorobenzene( HCB),and thermally treated under different temperatures and times to study the removal efficiencies of HCB and its decomposition products. The results indicated that thermal desorption could effectively remove hexachlorobenzene from the soil. The removal rates of HCB increased with increasing temperature and extending treatment time. The removal rate of HCB was 94. 2% when the soil was treated at 400 ℃ for 10 min,and increased to 99. 4% when the soil was treated at 450 ℃ for 60 min. The residual concentration was less than the Class A standard of soil quality assessment for exhibition sites( ≤ 0. 66 mgkg). Further increases of temperature andor treatment time had no effects on the removal rate of HCB. The thermal desorption process of HCB was not only a physical separation process,but also a reductive dechlorination process. The residual contaminants in soil after thermal desorption were HCB,1,3,5-trichlorobenzene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. The optimal operating conditions of thermal desorption were 450 ℃,60 min.
Pot culture experiment on the effects of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) stress on active oxygen metabolism of germinated soybean seeds indicated that during the beginning (1st-3rd day) of 100-300 micrograms.g-1 TCB treatment, the respiratory peak appeared earlier, and the respiratory rate, the accumulation of superoxide radical (O2-.) and H2O2, as well as the malondialdehyde (MDA) content were all enhanced. During 1-6 days of TCB stress, peroxidase (POD) activity gradually increased, and superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity increased firstly, and decreased afterward. These results suggested that the injury effects of TCB stress on germinated soybean seeds were achieved by excessive accumulation of active oxygen resulted from the degradation of active oxygen scavenging enzyme system.
Soil organic matter and plant litter layers are largely responsible for the immobility of organic compounds in agronomic environments. The objective of this research was to determine the sorption of nonionic organic compounds by turfgrass leaves and thatch and to correlate the sorption data with water solubilities (S w ) and octanol/water partition coefficients (K ow ). Batch suspension experiments for phenanthrene, fenarimol (α-(2-chlorophenyl)-α-(4-chlorophenyl)-5-pyrimidinemethanol), 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, ethoprop (o-ethyl s,s-dipropyl phosphorodithioate), and acetanilide (acetylaminobenzene) with S w from 1 to 5405 mg L -1 were completed on Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis L. cv. Touchdown) leaves and thatch. The resulting linear sorption isotherms (r 2 > 0.922) for these organic compounds are consistent with a partitioning mechanism between water and leaves or thatch. The partition coefficients (K) for thatch ranged from 6.32 for acetanilide to 793 for phenanthrene. The K coefficients for leaves ranged from 3.53 for acetanilide to 2520 for phenanthrene. Sorption coefficients normalized for organic C content of the sorbent (K oc ) were smaller for leaves and thatch than K oc values for soil organic C. The sorption coefficients for Kentucky bluegrass leaves had linear relationships with both the S w and K ow of the organic compounds. The K values for Kentucky bluegrass leaves could be predicted from S w and K ow , but values for thatch were highly variable. Both leaves and thatch were strong sorbents for organic compounds and should be expected to have a significant impact on the sorption and fate of chemicals applied to turf.
1,2,4-trichlorobenzene is a more toxic compound.Short term or long term exposure to it in experimental animals could lead to toxic injuries in their livers and kidneys.This paper reviews the recent progress in research on 1,2,4 trichlorobenzene,focusing on its toxicology.
The effect of solvent on a two-dimensional (2D) self-assembly of 1,3,5-tris(10-ethoxycarbonyldecyloxy)benzene (TECDB) has been systematically investigated by scanning tunneling microscopy. Through careful investigation of the solvent effect on molecular self-assembly, the solution concentration is also found to be a factor in assembly formation and transition. The same self-assembled structure is obtained using 1-phenyloctane, 1-octanol, n-tridecane, and n-tetradecane as a solvent under high solution concentrations. When the solution concentration decreases, a structural transition of the TECDB adlayer in 1-phenyloctane can be seen and n-tetradecane molecules coadsorb with TECDB molecules, forming two kinds of patterns. Furthermore, the affect of mixed solvents on the TECDB adlayer is also investigated. No self-assembled monolayer of TECDB is observed in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. After all samples are placed in ambient conditions over 24 h, a denser-packed structure appears, which corresponds to the result ...
A degradation plasmid was drawn in Pseudomonas Stutzeri T7 using 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) as the degradation bacteria of only carbon source. For studying the function of this plasmid, it was transformed in E. coli JM109, thus obtaing the ability to degrade 1,2,4-TCB. In the process of E. coli JM109 (containing plasmid pT7) degrading 1,2,4-TCB, the partial intermediate products were inspected and surveyed as 2,3,5-trichloromuconate, 2,5-dichloro- carboxymethylenebut-2-en-4-olide, and 2,5-dichloro-4-oxohex-2-enedioate respectively, adopting gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) technique. The enzyme activities of trichlorobenzene dioxygenase, dihydrodiol dehydrogenase, and catechol 1,2-dioxygenase, the enzymes were inspected and surveyed respectively.
In this work, a novel poly(aniline-co-m-aminobenzoic acid)–ionic liquid composite coating is presented for the head-space solid phase microextraction (HS-SPME) of aryl halides (i.e. chlorobenzene, bromobenzene, 1,4-dichlorobenzene, 4-bromotoluene, and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene). This coating was prepared on a platinum wire by electrochemical deposition in an aqueous solution containing 0.1 mol L−1 aniline, 0.1 mol L−1m-aminobenzoic acid, 0.02 mol L−1 1-butyl-3-methylimidazolium tetrafluoroborate and 1.0 mol L−1 HNO3. It showed high mechanical stability, thermal stability (up to 320 °C) and durability (repetitively used for more than 120 times). When it was applied to the HS-SPME and gas chromatographic detection of aryl halides, it presented high repeatability and sensitivity. Under the optimized conditions (i.e. extraction temperature: 30 °C; extraction time: 30 min; stirring rate: 600 rpm; NaCl concentration: 0.35 g mL−1), the linear detection ranges were 0.2–100 μg L−1 with correlation coefficients above 0.9922; the detection limits were 0.01–0.05 μg L−1 (S/N = 3). The relative standard deviations (RSDs) of chromatographic peak areas were smaller than 5.3% for five successive measurements with a single fiber, and the fiber to fiber RSD was 2.4–9.5% (n = 3) for different aryl halides (50 μg L−1). This method was successfully applied to the determination of real samples (i.e. moth balls) and the recoveries for the standard added were 85.7 % to 121%.
As increasing amounts of anthropogenic chemicals are released into the environment, it is vital to human health and the preservation of ecosystems to evaluate the fate of these chemicals in the environment. It is useful to predict whether a particular compound is biodegradable and if alternate routes can be engineered for compounds already known to be biodegradable. In this work, we describe a computational framework (called BNICE) that can be used for the prediction of novel biodegradation pathways of xenobiotics. The framework was applied to 4-chlorobiphenyl, phenanthrene, gamma-hexachlorocyclohexane, and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, compounds representing various classes of xenobiotics with known biodegradation routes. BNICE reproduced the proposed biodegradation routes found experimentally, and in addition, it expanded the biodegradation reaction networks through the generation of novel compounds and reactions. The novel reactions involved in the biodegradation of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene were studied in depth, where pathway and thermodynamic analyses were performed. This work demonstrates that BNICE can be applied to generate novel pathways to degrade xenobiotic compounds that are thermodynamically feasible alternatives to known biodegradation routes and attractive targets for metabolic engineering.
Several Ni/Al-MCM-41 catalysts were tested in the gas phase hydrodechlorination of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene at atmospheric pressure. They showed high activity and selectivity towards benzene at reaction temperatures between 473 and 523 K with values of 100% conversion and 100% benzene selectivity at 523 K for all of them.
Two amphiphilic heteroleptic tris(phthalocyaninato) europium complexes with hydrophilic crown ether heads and hydrophobic octyloxy tails [Pc(mCn)(4)]Eu[Pc(mCn)(4)]Eu[Pc(OC(8)H(17))(8)] [m = 12, n = 4, H(2)Pc(12C4)(4) = 2,3,9,10,16,17,23,24-tetrakis(12-crown-4)phthalocyanine; m = 18, n = 6, H(2)Pc(18C6)(4) = 2,3,9,10,16,17,23,24-tetrakis(18-crown-6)phthalocyanine; H(2)Pc(OC(8)H(17))(8) = 2,3,9,10,16,17,23,24-octakis(octyloxy)phthalocyanine] (1, 2) were designed and prepared from the reaction between homoleptic bis(phthalocyaninato) europium compound [Pc(mCn)(4)]Eu[Pc(mCn)(4)] (m = 12, n = 4; m = 18, n = 6) and metal-free H(2)Pc(OC(8)H(17))(8) in the presence of Eu(acac)(3).H(2)O (Hacac = acetylacetone) in boiling 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. These novel sandwich triple-decker complexes were characterized by a wide range of spectroscopic methods and electrochemically studied. With the help of the Langmuir-Blodgett technique, these typical amphiphilic triple-decker complexes were fabricated into organic field effect transistors (OFET) with top contact configuration on bare SiO(2)/Si substrate, hexamethyldisilazane-treated SiO(2)/Si substrate, and octadecyltrichlorosilane (OTS)-treated SiO(2)/Si substrate, respectively. The device performance is revealed to be dependent on the species of crown ether substituents and substrate surface treatment. OFETs fabricated from the triple decker with 12-crown-4 hydrophilic substituents, 1, allow the hole transfer in the direction parallel to the aromatic phthalocyanine rings. In contrast, the devices of a triple-decker compound containing 18-crown-6 as hydrophilic heads, 2, transfer holes in a direction along the long axis of the assembly composed of face-to-face aggregated triple-decker molecules, revealing the effect of molecular structure, specifically the crown ether substituents on the film structure and OFET functional properties. The carrier mobility for hole as high as 0.33 cm(2) V(-1) s(-1) and current modulation of 7.91 x 10(5) were reached for the devices of triple-decker compound 1 deposited on the OTS-treated SiO(2)/Si substrates, indicating the effect of substrate surface treatment on the OFET performance due to the improvement on the film quality as demonstrated by the atomic force microscope investigation results.
Abstract The photolysis of 1,2,3,- 1,2,4- and 1,3,5-trichlorobenzene was studied in cyclohexane, 2-propanol and methanol. The main photoreaction observed was reductive dechlorination. Quantum yields were determined for HCl and the corresponding dichlorobenzenes; they were independent of concentration, with the exception of meta -dichlorobenzene photolysis of 1,2,4- and 1,3,5-trichlorobenzene in cyclohexane where the quantum yield decreased when the concentration of the trichlorobenzenes was increased. The HCl quantum yields for 1,2,3,- and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene were around 0.4 in the three solvents. For 1,3,5-trichlorobenzene the quantum yield was lower, 0.1 – 0.2. A good mass balance between the dechlorination products and HCl was obtained only in 2-propanol. The relative yields of the dichlorobenzenes reflect the reactivity of the different positions in the ring in 2-propanol. Triplet quenching experiments with anthracene showed no effect on the HCl quantum yields. The results suggest that the excited singlet is the intermediate in the primary process.
Thermal polymerization of cyclotriphosphazenes fully substituted with 2-, 3-, and 4-pyridinoxides have been attempted both in the solid state and in solution. Among these ring-strain-free trimeric isomers, hexakis(3-pyridinoxy)cyclotriphosphazene (1) did not undergo polymerization either in the solid state or in solution, but 4-pyridinoxy (2) and 2-pyridinoxy analogues (3) have been found to undergo polymerization at 150 and 200 °C, respectively, in the absence of any catalyst. In particular, the thermal solution polymerization of 2 in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene at 200 °C resulted in a linear polymer in 80% yield which was the same as the product obtained by a nucleophilic substitution of poly(dichlorophosphazene) with 4-pyridinoxide. DSC analysis of the trimers has shown that 2 and 3 have exothermic peaks at 179.4 and 224.1 °C, respectively, whereas 1 does not have an exothermic peak, and it has been found that the polymerizability and temperature range for polymerization of the cyclic trimers are closely re...
Competitive reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT/PCR) was used to quantify the mRNA of the tcbC gene of Pseudomonas sp. strain P51. The tcbC gene encodes the enzyme chlorocatechol-1,2-dioxygenase involved in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) degradation. The mRNA content per cell was monitored in a batch culture growing on 1,2,4-TCB. No mRNA could be detected in the first 2 days of the lag phase. mRNA production became maximal with 20 molecules per cell in the early exponential growth phase but then decreased to less than 10 molecules per cell. When TCB was depleted and the cells entered the stationary phase, the mRNA content decreased slowly below the detection limit within 4 days. In order to compare detection of tcbC mRNA in pure culture and in river sediment, cells of strain P51 pregrown on TCB were added to sediment and RNAs extracted. In sediment samples containing 5 x 10(8) cells per gram the tcbC mRNA was quantifiable by RT/PCR. The mRNA recovery was about 3% as compared to the inoculum. The detection limit of the RT/PCR method was about 10(7) mRNA molecules per gram sediment or 10(6) copies per ml culture medium which corresponded in our case to 10(5) molecules per reaction vial.
Abstract Chlorobenzenes have often been applied to study persistent organic pollutants with endocrine disruptor effects (POP/EDCs), but with the focus mainly on physiological aspects. Few data exist on the effects of chlorobenzenes and most POP/EDCs on anxiety or other arginine-vasopressin (AVP)- and oxytocin (OXT)-mediated behavior, albeit exposure to POP/EDCs or their ambient mixtures, even in low doses, may pose health risks for subjects living in contaminated areas and/or consuming polluted food. Our primary aim was therefore to demonstrate behavioral effects of longterm exposure to a discrete dose of a chlorobenzene mixture, and to draw attention to the results of subtoxic oral exposure on anxiety-related elements and the possible underlying endocrine processes. Adult male Wistar rats were treated daily with a mixture (ClB) of 1 μg/kg each of hexachlorobenzene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene via a gastric tube for 30, 60 or 90 days. After exposure, anxiety-related behavioral elements were determined in open-field and elevated plus maze tests. At euthanasia, the plasma levels of AVP, OXT and adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) were measured. Simultaneously, pituicytes from subjects were cultured to study the levels of basal and serotonin- or norepinephrinestimulated AVP and OXT secretion. Various anxiety-related behavioral elements were observed to be increased in both tests. The plasma AVP, OXT and ACTH concentrations were increased, to extents depending on the duration of exposure. The basal and monoamine-stimulated levels of AVP and OXT secretion of pituicytes prepared from the ClB-exposed rats were also elevated. Thus, certain anxietyrelated behavioral and endocrine elements were modulated by long-term exposure to ClB. As adult subjects were involved, which are generally less susceptible to toxic agents, it may be concluded that discrete doses of POP/EDC chlorobenzenes that are low enough to fall below the range of legal regulation may exert anxiogenic effects, which suggests that certain anxiogenic disorders may be induced environmentally in exposed human populations.
It REVEALS A NEW COPOLYMER styrenic comprising: (A) styrene units REPETITIVE of general formula (I), wherein R1 represents a hydrogen atom or halogen atom, a hydrocarbon group with 20 or fewer carbon atoms and n is an integer of 1 to 3, provided that groups of R1 may be the same or different each other when n is 2 or 3 and (B) olefin units rEPETITIVE of general formula (II), wherein R2 represents a hydrogen atom hydrogen or a saturated hydrocarbon group having 20 or less carbon atoms, or (C) rEPETITIVE diene units, wherein the ratio UNITS olefin (B) or diene units (C) is 0.1 to rEPETITIVE WEIGHT 99.9%. The copolymer has an intrinsic viscosity of 0.07 to 20 dl / g as measured in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene at 135 (degrees) and stereoregularity CHAIN ​​STYRENE UNITS IS HIGHLY REPETITIVE syndiotactic. It is excellent in resistance to heat, chemicals and other products and ADMITS injection molding at low temperatures. It also presents good compatibility with other resins.
Abstract Insoluble organic matter (IOM) has been obtained from two carbonaceous chondrite meteorites and subjected to analysis by laser desorption mass spectrometry (LDMS) using standard operating conditions that were optimized for fullerene detection (3–6 μJ pulses at 337 nm focused to a spot size of approximately 100 μm in diameter). The preparation process yields no free C 60 in the IOM, and other experiments suggest that this material does not contain appreciable amounts of fullerenes. Nevertheless, a pronounced high-mass envelope is observed in LDMS, extending from 720 amu to about 4000 amu, with peaks spaced apart every 24 amu (corresponding to the gain or loss of C 2 units). We attribute this high-mass envelope to the existence of various fullerene molecules. The present work demonstrates that these fullerene molecules are created by the laser desorption laser ionization process under typical laser conditions used for studying free fullerenes in organic solvent extracts of natural samples (toluene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene). The implications of this false positive detection of fullerene molecules on the reports of fullerenes in other meteoritic samples have been investigated by introducing IOM into typical fullerene extraction procedures and examining the LDMS results. We found that IOM is capable of producing false positive signals in these experiments. The effect of ambient laboratory contamination producing fullerene signals is also described. It is found that extensive centrifugation of the meteoritic extracts is able to reduce the observed fullerene envelope, which points to an association of this envelope with IOM particulates that have passed through the filtering steps. We suggest the exercise of extreme caution in interpreting fullerene data from LDMS experiments.
Abstract The pyrimidine sulfones 10 , R = Me; Nu = OMe, NEt 2 , SPh, H and 11 , R = Ph; Nu = OMe were synthesised from the dihydrothienopyrimidones 7 , R = Me, Ph by conversion to the chloro derivatives 8 followed by oxidation with mCPBA and reaction with the appropriate nucleophile or hydrogen and Pd. Heating of the sulfones in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene gave the pyrimidine o -quinodimethanes which were intercepted in Diels-Alder reactions to give tetrahydroquinazolines.
The natural attenuation of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) in shallow aquifer was investigated at the Luhuagang's landfill site (LLS), where the subsoil and shallow aquifer have been contaminated by certain chemicals owning to a lack of protective structures and leachate collection systems. Batch natural attenuation experiments and molecular biology experiments were conducted to study the natural attenuation characteristics of 1,2,4-TCB, the relative contributions of the primary natural attenuation processes and the functional microorganisms degrading 1,2,4-TCB, respectively. The results indicated that the relationship between degradation rate and 1,2,4-TCB concentrations was in line with first-order decay kinetics, and the natural attenuation rate of 1,2,4-TCB in the three media followed the order silt>fine sand>medium sand, which was related to the size of the media and the microbial population. The relative contribution of adsorption to natural attenuation was 97.7%, 98.2%, and 95.7% in unsterilized silt, fine sand and medium sand, respectively, and that of biodegradation was 2.3%, 1.8%, and 4.3%, respectively. These properties are related to the characteristics of the pollutants and the specific conditions at the contaminated sites, such as the characteristics of the aquifer media and microbial communities. The functional microorganisms degrading 1,2,4-TCB at the site were proved to be primarily Pseudomonas sp. This study indicates the feasibility of bioremediation (bioaugmentation and biostimulation) by indigenous microorganisms to treat 1,2,4-TCB contamination at the site.
Abstract Like hexachlorobenzene, the lower chlorinated benzenes are able to induce experimental hepatic porphyria in rats. Feeding of mono-, di-, tri and tetrachloro-benzenes to male albino rats was followed first by increased urinary coproporphyrin excretion, later by rise in porphobilinogen and δ-aminolaevulic acid. There are differences in the excretory pattern between animals treated with lower chlorinated benzenes and Sedormid or allylisopropylacetamide (AIA). Liver GSH content was found to be reduced in starved rats after administration of 1, 2, 4-trichlorobenzene. GSH given to rats, highly porphyric due to 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene-intoxication, had a protective effect. Preliminary investigations were made of hepatic pyridine nucleotide levels in rats made porphyric by intoxication with chlorinated benzenes, AIA or Sedormid. Some deviations from normality were observed. Hair loss was noted due to follicular hyperkeratosis similar to the acneiform eruptions seen in man due to chlorinated compounds. The experimental animals showed no signs of photosensitivity.
Chlorobenzenes are a kind of organic contaminants which are difficult to be decomposed by normal methods.Decomposition of five organic compounds including chlorobenzene ,o-,m-,p-dichlorobenzene and trichlorobenzene with electron beam(current:1 mA,energy:1.5 MeV) were studied.Radiation doses of the electron beam were 35,70,105,140,210 kGy respectively.The results show that chlorobenzenes can be decomposed efficiently with electron beam.At the same dose,the decomposition rates of the chlorobenezenes are as follows:chlorobenzenedichlorobenzene1,2,4-trichlorobenzene.Doses needed for 50% degradation of o-,m-,p-dichlorobenzene and chlorobenzene are 38,35,46 and 206 kGy respectively.The mass concentration of chlorine ion increases during irradiation and pH of the irradiated solution is at the range of 2～3.
Abstract 1,1,2-Trichloro-trifluoroethane, 1,2-dibromo-tetrafluoroethane, 2,3,4,6-tetrachlorophenol, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, and 2,4,6-trichloroanisole were dissolved in alkaline isopropyl alcohol and irradiated with 60 Co gamma rays after purged with pure nitrogen gas. The concentration of the hydroxide ions and the parent molecules decreased with the dose, while that of the halide ions and the organic products, with less halogen atoms than the parent, increased. Chain degradation will occur in alkaline isopropyl alcohol.
Abstract The behavior of isotactic, syndiotactic and atactic polypropylene stereoisomers on porous graphitic carbon (PGC) at different column temperatures is investigated with 1-decanol, decalin and decane as the adsorption promoting solvents using gradient interaction chromatography (SGIC). Column temperatures between 120 – 180 °C are investigated for the three adsorption promoting solvents with 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) as the desorption promoting solvent. Owing to the different stereochemistry of the isomers, their interaction with the atomic level flat surface (ALFS) of porous graphitic carbon is observed to be different when injected from the three different adsorption promoting solvents. Atactic and isotactic polypropylene are not separable when 1-decanol is used as the adsorption solvent but can be separated from syndiotactic PP at column temperatures of between 120 – 180 °C. The three stereoisomers have almost similar elution volumes when decalin is used as the adsorption promoting solvent between 120 – 170 °C. Decane allows for both adsorption and desorption of the stereoisomers at distinct peak elution volumes at the studied column temperatures of 120 – 160 °C. Furthermore, it is shown that increasing the column temperature while maintaining other chromatographic conditions can either decrease or increase retention depending on the adsorption promoting solvent. More importantly, retention is influenced by adsorption conditions (temperature and adsorption promoting solvent) which may affect macromolecular conformations upon injection onto the PGC stationary phase. This is the first study on PP stereoisomers highlighting this behaviour.
The reaction of 5,10,15-tris(4-tert-butylphenyl)corrole with 2,3-bis(bromomethyl)-5,6-dicyanopyrazine provides a new example of corrole ring expansion to a hemiporphycene derivative. The ring expansion is regioselective, with insertion of the pyrazine derivative at the 5-position of the corrole ring, affording the corresponding 5-hemiporphycene. Different macrocyclic products accompany formation of the 5-hemiporphycene, depending on the reaction experimental conditions. Br-substitued 5-hemiporphycenes and the 2-Br substituted corrole were obtained in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, while in refluxing toluene traces of an inner core substituted corrole were observed together with a significant amount of the unreacted corrole. These results provide an important indication of the reaction pathway. The coordination behavior of the 5-hemiporphycene, together with detailed electrochemical characterization of the free-base and some metal complexes, provides evidence for the reactivity of the peripheral pyrazino group.
The utilization of 1,2,4,5-tetrachloro-, 1,2,4-trichloro-, the three isomeric dichlorobenzenes and fructose as the sole carbon and energy sources at nanomolar concentrations was studied in batch experiments with Burkholderia sp. strain PS14. In liquid culture, all chlorobenzenes were metabolized within 1 h from their initial concentration of 500 nM to below their detection limits of 0.5 nM for 1,2,4,5-tetrachloro- and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and 7.5 nM for the three dichlorobenzene isomers, with 63% mineralization of the tetra- and trichloroisomers. Fructose at the same initial concentration was, in contrast, metabolized over a 4-h incubation period down to a residual concentration of approximately 125 nM with 38% mineralization during this time. In soil microcosms, Burkholderia sp. strain PS14 metabolized tetrachlorobenzene present at 64.8 ppb and trichlorobenzene present at 54.4 ppb over a 72-h incubation period to below the detection limits of 0.108 and 0.09 ppb, respectively, with approximately 80% mineralization. A high sorptive capacity of Burkholderia sp. strain PS14 for 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene was found at very low cell density. The results demonstrate that Burkholderia sp. strain PS14 exhibits a very high affinity for chlorobenzenes at nanomolar concentrations.
The mechanism of microbial degradation of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene includes aerobic degradation,reductive dechlorination and co-metabolism.This paper provided a brief review of the research progress in the biodegradation of 1,2,4-TCB.The potential biodegradability was analyzed.The pathway of aerobic degradation of 1,2,4-TCB and the related microbial strains,as well as the reductive dechlorination of 1,2,4-TCB by microbial community or single strain were discussed.The aim of this paper is to provide a guide for microbial remediation of 1,2,4-TCB contaminated soil.
Abstract A series of nickel (2–15 wt.%) catalysts supported on niobia were prepared. Their catalytic efficiency in the vapour phase hydrodechlorination of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene was studied. The catalyst samples were characterized by X-ray diffraction (XRD), scanning electron microscopy (SEM), X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), temperature programmed desorption of hydrogen (TPD), temperature programmed reduction (TPR) and hydrogen chemisorption method. Hydrogen chemisorption studies suggest that the hydrogen spillover culminates at 6 wt.% of Ni/Nb 2 O 5 . The partial hydrodechlorination ability of 6 wt.% Ni/Nb 2 O 5 was also found to be the highest. Niobia supported nickel catalysts were found to be highly active for the partial hydrodechlorination of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. It was also found that the catalytic properties are related to dispersion of nickel on niobium oxide.
Pseudomonas nitroreducense J5-1 can use 1,2-dichlorobenzene and 1,3-dichlorobenzene as sole carbon and energy source, whereas another 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene-degrader Pseudomonas sp. P51 cannot use 1,3-dichlorobenzene. This study focus on investigating the difference by analyzing the amino acid sequences of the two CCD genes from J5-1 and P51 despite their high similarity. This indicated that tcbC of strain J5-1 had diverged from other CCDs. CCD gene was taken as the target sequence for the detection of specific mRNA for chloroaromatic compounds degradation because it is the first gene of the MOCP. Real-time reverse transcription-PCR was used that allows the comparison of quantitative mRNA accumulation under different substrates. The expression of chlorocatechol 1,2-dioxygenase in strain J5-1 grown on 1,3-dichlorocatechol was higher than on 1,2-dichlorobenzene. The data analysis showed a general trend where 1,3-dichlorocatechol might be a better inducer than 1,2-dichlorocatechol.
The ability of molecules to self-assemble into highly ordered architectures has gained increasing importance in the past decade, as these nano-objects are applicable in the field of optical and electronic devices. 6 (1), bearing six side chains each consisting of an alkylated and a perfluoroalkylated section. The alkylated section acts as a four-carbon spacer between the core structure and the six-carbon perfluorinated tail. Preliminary investigations on aliphatic spacers of variable length n (n 5 2-6) indicate that the four-carbon aliphatic spacer chosen for this investigation presents an optimum for the following parameters: i) total isolation of the electron withdrawing effect of the perfluoro chain from the core structure; ii) allowing for maximum flexibility between the rigid core structure and the semi-rigid perfluoroalkyl tail; 11 iii) short enough to prevent crystalline alkyl chain-alkyl chain interactions. The seemingly very minor change in the length of the perfluorinated part, six carbons instead of eight as in our previous work, 12 had a tremendous impact on the solubility of the new compound in a range of solvents such as 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB), benzotrifluoride (BTF) and hexafluorobenzene (HFB), whereas the compound with (CH 2 ) 4 (CF 2 ) 8 F side chains showed very low solubility in all solvents, severely hampering its purification. Nevertheless, the most important property of HBC-[(CH 2 ) 4 (CF 2 ) 8 F] 6 , i.e. its tendency to form very long monostranded molecular stacks, was fully retained in the new variant. Scheme 1 illustrates the six step synthesis of 1 which is obtained as a bright yellow solid.
Representative film-preparation parameters in a solution process to control the molecular arrangement in an organic thin film are "solvent" [28, 29] and "film-preparation technique." [2] For instance, chloroform (Chl) and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB), known as representative organic solvents exhibiting high and low volatile characters, respectively, yield largely different molecular arrangements. [28, 29] In addition, the spin-coating (SC) technique slowly in a drop-casted (DC) film. Therefore, an appropriate combination of a solvent (Chl or TCB) and a film-preparation technique (SC or DC) controls the solvent "evaporation time," which finally controls the molecular arrangement in the film. Another important film-preparation parameter is the "thermal annealing" technique, which is often used to order or convert the molecular arrangement in a thin film. [30, 31] For example, the thermal annealing improves the semiconductor properties (i.e., charge mobility, on/off ratio, etc.) of an etioporphyrin-I thin film. [32] In the present study, the film structure of a ZnTPP thin film is studied comprehensively and systematically for all the combinations of the three film-preparation parameters in terms of the molecular orientation and the crystal structure.
Abstract Carbon soot produced by the graphite arc-synthesis method was solvated to varying extents in four different solvents, after previous removal of some fullerenes, particularly C 60 and C 70 , by toulene extraction. The solvents and weight percentages of soot solvated (in parentheses) are: xylene (3.5), 1,3,5-trimethylbenzene (7.4), 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (31.1), and 1-methylnaphthalene (22.5). If one accounts for the C 2 n fullerene molecules, primarily C 60 and C 70 , extracted from virgin soot by toluene, roughly 37% of the virgin carbon soot can be solvated by the use of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. A rough value for the enthalpy of solvation difference is determined for C 70 and C 60 , by van't Hoff analysis, to be ΔΔ H = 5 kcal/mol. This method is suggested as a valuable indicator for the difference of enthalpies of binding of C 2 n molecules to the soot matrix. After filtration and removal of the solvents used in the extractions, the residues can be redissolved in low-boiling-point solvents such as methylene chloride and toluene, two solvents which dissolved essentially none of the (previously) toluene-extracted starting material. This underscores the importance of the soot matrix in inhibiting solvation of C 2 n fullerene molecules, and suggests that chromatographic separation of large fullerene molecules can be done with low-boiling-point solvents, and may therefore be feasible.
Three-dimensional (3D) polyamide scaffolds were fabricated by applying a solvent bath as the collecting element. Electrospun nanofibers were immersed into the solvent bath to give a material with a laminated 3D texture. In parallel, 2D nanofibers were synthesized and utilized as microextractive phases in a needle trap device to compare the capabilities of 2D and 3D materials in terms of headspace extraction of various chlorobenzenes (chlorobenzene, 1,2-dichlorobenzene, 1,4-dichlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and 1,2,3,4-tetrachlorobenzene). The results demonstrate the superiority of 3D nanofibrous scaffolds over 2D mats. The porosity, morphology, and thermal stability of the 3D scaffolds were characterized using FT-IR, scanning electron microscopy, confocal laser scanning microscopy and thermogravimetric analysis. The CLSM images were reconstructed and analyzed by Image J software, and eventually the enhancement of porosity using 3D scaffolds was confirmed. The type of solvent bath, polyamide solution concentration and other parameters were optimized. Following thermal desorption of the chlorobenzenes, they were quantified by GC-MS. Under optimum conditions, the calibration plots cover the 0.004-1.0 pg μL-1 concentration range and the limits of detection are in the range from 0.8-3 pg mL-1. The relative standard deviations (RSDs) are between 3 and 8% and 3-10% (n = 3) at spiking levels of 200 and 1000 ng L-1, respectively. The RSDs for the needle-to-needle repeatability are <15% (for n = 3). This needle trap microextraction method was applied to the analysis of river water, sea water, and of inlet water of a water treatment plant. Graphical abstract Schematic diagram symbolizing the extractive effectiveness of sponge-like 3D nanofibrous scaffolds with respect to smooth 2D electrospun nanofibers. Under the same experimental conditions, higher porosity of 3D scaffolds is amazingly contributed to the more accessible adsorptive sites which in turn makes them drastic and innovative candidate for micro-oriented extraction purposes.
Chloro[2,6-bis{1-(phenyl)iminoethyl}pyridine]rhodium(I) complexes (RhCl(N,N,N); 1−11) have been prepared by reaction of the dimer [Rh(μ-Cl)(η2-C2H4)2]2 with the corresponding nitrogen donor ligand. These complexes afford nanoparticles with a mean diameter of 1.5 ± 0.2 nm stabilized by the partially hydrogenated ligand, under 1 atm of hydrogen, in 2-propanol as solvent, at 60 °C, and in the presence of KtBuO. Under a constant atmospheric pressure of hydrogen, the nanoparticles catalyze the dehalogenation of the chlorobenzene 1,2-, 1,3-, and 1,4-dichlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, fluorobenzene, 2-, 3-, and 4-chlorobiphenyl, and 4,4′- and 3,5-dichlorobiphenyl and the hydrogenation of benzene, toluene, p-xylene, styrene, α-methylstyrene, biphenyl, aniline, phenol, and pyridine. A Hg(0) poisoning test reveals that homogeneous and heterogeneous catalysis coexist during the dehalogenation reactions, whereas the hydrogenation processes are heterogeneous. The nanoparticles can be also generated in the presen...
A high-sensitive vacuum ultraviolet time-of-flight mass spectrometer(VUV-TOFMS) researched and developed independently was applied to the on-line detection of three chlorobenzenes used as dioxins precursors including monochlorobenzene, 1, 2-dichlorobenzene,and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. The simulated flue gas generated by the combustion of PVC and the real-time concentration of monochlorobenzene was on-line monitored. The dioxins concentration generated by combustion was quantitatively analyzed. The results show that the detection of dioxins products from waste incineration is indirectly realized by VUV-TOFMS. Accurate and distinct parent molecular ions are observed. The signal intensity of the molecular ion shows a good linear relation with real concentration of the standard gas. The detection limits for monochlorobenzene, 1, 2-dichlorobenzene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene are respectively 4.7 ×10-9, 8.7 ×10-9and11.9×10-9.
Abstract Molecular dynamics simulations have been carried out to assess event details in the adsorption of the hydrophobic substrate 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) on the hydrophilic TiO 2 particle surface in the presence of the biosurfactant 4-O-(4′,6′-di-O-acetyl-2′,3′-di-O-alkanoyl-β- d -mannopyranosyl)- d -erythritol (MEL) and the SDS (sodium dodecylsulfate) surfactant in aqueous media at ambient temperature with interaction forces between organic molecules and TiO 2 calculated from Lennard–Jones and Coulomb potential models. The surfactant and the TCB substrate were arranged in the vicinity of TiO 2 using 768 water molecules in the simulations. Results indicate that the MEL molecules adsorb on the TiO 2 surface in ca. 5 ps ( k = 2 × 10 11 s −1 ) through the oxygen atoms of the hydrophilic functions. Contact distance between the MEL and the TiO 2 surface shortened further after 10 ps with adsorption controlled mostly by van der Waals’ forces. The TCB molecules are trapped within the alkyl chains of the MEL system, which subsumes TCB to a greater extent by the repulsion of water, thereby facilitating the TCB molecules to approach the highly hydrophilic and positively charged TiO 2 particle surface. Along with the simulations, also examined was the photodegradation of this hydrophobic TCB substrate that takes place at the TiO 2 /water interface in the presence of the MEL biosurfactant. For comparison, the advantages of the MEL in this task and of the commonly used SDS surfactant were determined under otherwise identical experimental conditions (200 mg L −1 of surfactants) by examining the dynamics of the photo-induced degradation and dechlorination of TCB. The photodegradation of TCB was nearly quantitative in MEL/TiO 2 in contrast to only ca. 22% complete in SDS/TiO 2 dispersions. It is deduced that wastewater treatments with the highly hydrophilic TiO 2 are seriously limited in their photodegradation of hydrophobic pollutants, an issue easily resolvable by the presence of biodegradable surfactants.
The root growth, changes in superoxide dismutase (SOD, EC 1.15.1.1) activity, malonyldialdehyde (MDA) and total soluble protein level of broadbean (Vicia faba) seedlings were researched at different soil concentrations of chlorobenzene (CB), 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) and hexachlorobenzene (HCB). The results showed that root growth of seedlings was interrupted after 5 d of 50-200 microg x g(-1) TCB treatment. During a 3 d recovery period, root growth was, however, restored to some extent although there was a delay in returning to the control level. The total soluble protein content in seedlings increased with TCB concentration and duration of exposure. Effect of TCB stress on SOD activity in seedlings displayed a significant dose-effect relationship for 1-5 d of 50-200 microg x g(-1) treatment. When broadbean seedlings were placed in clean tap water for 3 d following exposure to 5 d of TCB stress to clear tap water for 3 d, SOD activity at 50 microg x g(-1) TCB recovered towards control level (P>0.05) while a significant increase in SOD activity was observed at 100 and 200 microg x g(-1) TCB compared to control (P<0.05). The experiments also revealed that a significant increase of MDA level in seedlings occurred after 3 and 5 d of 100 and 200 microg x g(-1) TCB treatment (P<0.05 and P<0.01), and there was a positive correlation between TCB concentration and MDA level. All the above results showed that SOD activity and MDA level of broadbean seedlings might be proposed as the biomarkers for short-term TCB contamination in soil. Compared to TCB, the toxicity of 50-1000 microg x g(-1) CB or HCB in soil to broadbean seedlings was not observed after a 3 d exposure.
Catalysts comprising metal oxides dispersed on porous carbon supports are shown to be very effective in the decomposition of halogenated hydrocarbons by air at and below 250 o C. A wide range of substrates, including methylene chloride, 1,2-dichloroethane, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, tetrachloroethylene, 1, 1,2,2-tetrachloroethane, and carbon tetrachloride, are converted selectively to CO 2 , CO, and HCl. The carbon supports also show significant activity in the absence of metal species. Trends in reactivity with catalyst variation suggest that the carbon micropore content and acidity are determining factors in the catalgic activity
A modified procedure for the electrocrystallization of organic conductors with paramagnetic anions of the (BEDT-TTF)4AI[MIII(C2O4)3]·G family has been proposed. It is found that single crystals of different phases of the family can be prepared if the electrocrystallization medium is represented by the mixture of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (or 1,3-dibromobenzene), 96% ethanol and different solvents (G), only the latter being included into the composition of the resulting salts as neutral guest molecules (G = benzonitrile, fluorobenzene, chlorobenzene, 1,2-dichlorobenzene, bromobenzene, nitrobenzene). Using this approach, a number of known and new BEDT-TTF salts with the tris(oxalato)ferrate anion have been synthesized. Among them, there are superconducting crystals of monoclinic β′′-series with different guest solvents (G) and their mixtures. For the first time, crystals of a triclinic phase (G = 1,2-dibromobenzene), with alternating α- and ‘pseudo-κ’ BEDT-TTF layers and metallic behaviour down to 1.5 K, were obtained. Additionally, monoclinic crystals having another stoichiometry and α-type donor packing were prepared.
Abstract The U.S. Air Force is currently evaluating a mobile, full-scale incinerator for restoration of sites contaminated with 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD). The field trial has been divided into three phases: (1) verification trial burn using TCDD contaminated soils, (2) TCDD surrogate trial burn employing clean soil spiked with the surrogates hexachloroethane (HCE) and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB), and (3) a long-term operational test of 150 days to evaluate the reliability, maintainability and cost associated with the rotary-kiln incinerator. The subject of this paper, the surrogate trial burn, was conducted in May, 1987 to demonstrate the ability of the incinerator to destroy at least 99.9999 percent of the two TCDD surrogates. The surrogate trial burn shows that the ENSCO rotary-kiln incinerator is capable of removing TCDD and other related chemicals from a soil matrix in a manner protective of the environment. Future tests of this unit will include the thermal processing of 11,000 cubic yards of TCDD contaminated soil during a heavily documented field trial.
A series of tris[2,3,9,10,16,17,23,24-octakis(octyloxy)phthalocyaninato] rare earth(III) complexes M2[Pc(OC8H17)8]3 [M = Eu, Gd, Y, Lu] has been prepared by the reaction of corresponding bis[2,3,9,10,16,17,23,24-octakis(octyloxy)phthalocyaninato] rare earth complexes with M(acac)3·nH2O in refluxing 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. These liquid crystalline sandwich, triple-decker complexes were characterized by elemental analysis and various spectroscopic methods including 1H NMR, UV-vis, IR and mass spectroscopies. Their liquid crystal phase transition behavior was studied by Polarized Optical Microscope, Differential Scanning Calorimeter and X-ray diffraction. The complexes, with octyloxy attached as side chains, showed rectangular columnar liquid crystal phases in a liquid crystal temperature range between 83 and 305°C. In addition to the rare earth contraction, both the transition temperature and the wide temperature range of the mesophase show a slight but obvious trend to decrease, respectively, in the same o...
Experimental combination of genes encoding the first two enzymes of a toluene degradation pathway with those coding for chlorocatechol degradation produced a functional metabolic sequence for the mineralization of chlorobenzenes via a modified ortho pathway (31). It has been proposed that the 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene degrader Pseudomonas sp. strain P51 evolved by recruitment of the tod pathway genes of the toluene-degrading bacterium Pseudomonas putida F1, followed by mutational drift of the todCBA toluene dioxygenase and todD dehydrogenase genes to yield the tcb genes encoding the first two enzymes in the transformation of chlorobenzenes (40-44). Sequences flanking the tcb genes were suggested to be evolutionary remnants of the todE extradiol dioxygenase and todF hydrolase genes, which had become inactivated by major DNA deletions such that misrouting of catechol into the unproductive meta pathway would no longer be possible (44).
1,2,4-trichlorobenzene(1,2,4-TCB) has pervaded in natural environment and industrial production.It would cause a series of problems due to its longevity and amassment.The EPA has added it into the environmental pollutant list.In order to evaluate the tolerance of the fifty rice genotypes to 1,2,4-TCB stress and identify proper screening indices and concentration,the effects of 1,2,4-TCB on the rice seed germination and seedling were studied.At first,the concentrations of 1,2,4-TCB treated 20 genotypes were 0 mmol·kg-1 sand,0.35 mmol·kg-1 sand and 3 mmol·kg-1 sand,and 1,2,4-TCB dissolved in 0.3 mL acetone were added into sands.The result of this experiment showed that 0.35 mmol·kg-1 sand was the better screening concentration.So 0 mmol·kg-1 sand and 0.35 mmol·kg-1 sand were adopted to treat 50 genotypes in the latter study.Germination potential,germination rate,the longest root length,root number,plant height,the dry weight of shoot and roots of different rice varieties at seedling stage were measured.Character relative values were got from measure values of treated groups and control groups.They were used as tolerance indices(TI) of early seedlings.Cluster analysis of different wheat varieties based on TI of the longest root length,plant height,the dry weight of shoot and roots was adopted.The results showed that the fifty rice varieties could be grouped into four types,.i.e.TCB sensitive varieties,relatively sensitive varieties,tolerant varieties and relatively tolerant varieties.
Two strains,E3 and F2,capable to mineralize 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene(1,2,4-TCB) were isolated from a chlorinated benzenes contaminated soil using 14C-1,2,4-TCB as carbon source.They were identified by their 16S rDNA coding genes and fluoresence in situ hybridization(FISH) analysis as members of the genus Bordetella.A similarity of 100% were observed between strains E3 and F2 with their 16S rDNA sequences.They had the highest homology of 100% with Bordetella sp.QJ2-5 and the closest relation to described species,Bordetella petrii(GDH030510) with a similary of 99.4%.Strains E3 and F2 could degrade about 90% of 1,2,4-TCB and mineralize 58% and 46% of 1,2,4-TCB to CO_2 within 30 days in mineral liquid cultures,respectively.Biomass was formed during the mineralization process.
The soluble fraction (105,000 x g, 30 min) of chicken liver homogenates contained an enzyme(s), probably a dehydrochlorinase(s), which metabolized lindane in vitro. The reaction was glutathione dependent and took place anaerobically. The enzyme(s) also metabolized the alpha- and delta-isomers but not the beta-isomer. About 66% of the in vitro metabolites were soluble in petroleum ether. From the ether-soluble fraction, o-, p- amd m-dichlorobenzene, 1,2,3- and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, gamma-2,3,4,5,6-pentachlorocyclohex-1-ene (gamma-PCCH), 2,3- and 2,4-dichlorophenol and 2,4,6-trichlorophenol were identified by comparison of mass spectra and gas chromatographic data with those of reference compounds. Seven additional metabolites were tentatively identified from their mass spectra data. These metabolites were: chlorobenzene, 2 isomers of trichlorocyclohexene, dichlorocyclohexadienetriol, chlorophenol, trichlorocyclohexenol and trichlorocyclohexanediol. The petroleum ether-extracted aqueous phase contained a number of unidentified conjugated metabolites. It was concluded that the metabolic pathway for lindane in the chicken is quite similar to that in the pheasant.
Abstract γ-1,3,4,5,6-Pentachlorocyclohexa-1-ene (γ-PCCH), 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) and 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP) were identified as aerobic initial degradation products of γ-hexachlorocyclohexane (γ-HCH) by Pseudomonas paucimobilis UT26. The dehydrochlorination of γ-HCH to γ-PCCH was thought to occur stereoselectively at a trans and diaxial pair of hydrogen and chlorine (TD-pair) by P. paucimobilis UT26. Conformational analysis with molecular orbital calculations revealed that γ-PCCH also possesses a TD-pair of 5-position hydrogen and 6-position chlorine in its cyclohexene ring. Lineweaver-Burk plot suggested that γ-PCCH was a specific competitive inhibitor of the dehydrochlorination of γ-HCH. Considering these results, γ-PCCH was suggested to be dehydrochlorinated in a similar way to γ-HCH to yield an unidentified intermediate, 1,3,4,6-tetrachlorocyclohexa-1,4-diene (1,4-TCDN). 1,2,4-TCB and 2,5-DCP were considered to be produced from 1,4-TCDN by different reaction routes: 1,2,4-TCB was through a non-enzymatic dehydrochlorinative rearrangement of 1,4-TCDN and 2,5-DCP was through a similar rearrangement of 2,4,5-trichloro-2,5-cyclohexadiene-1-ol (2,4,5-DNOL), another unidentified intermediate from 1,4-TCDN.
Methods for measuring the hydroxyl-, ozone-, and direct photochemical reactivity of a substance in one specially designed medium size smog chamber are described. Rate coefficients for the reaction of OH with n-hexane, n-heptane, ethene, ethyne, chloroform, trichloroethene, methanol, 2-propanol, benzene, o-xylene, 1,4-dichlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, p-chloroaniline, naphthalene, acenaphthene, 1,4-dichloronaphthalene, biphenyl, and fluorenone are given and discussed. An upper limit of 5 X 10(-13) cm3/sec is given for the sum penta- and hexa-chlorobiphenyls (PCB). Rate coefficients for the ozone reaction are given for beta-pinene, limonene, delta 3-carene, cineol, vinyl chloride and 1,3-butadiene. In cases where the literature data are available for comparison, the rate coefficients (kappa OH and kappa O3) reported here compare favorably with the best data reported. The direct photochemical reactivity has been shown to be measurable if the chamber is cleaned carefully. Preliminary results on benzophenone are reported. The methods described here, except that of direct photochemical reactivity, are in agreement with those proposed to OECD. Moreover, part of the Draft OECD Test Guideline (Berlin, 1987) on "Photochemical-Oxidative Degradation in the Atmosphere" is based on work described here and on closely related work in other laboratories (Becker et al., 1984).
Sorption isotherms of chlorobenzene, 1,4-dichlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene on 5 sediments were examined to understand its sorption behavior. All systems examined exhibits nonlinear sorption. All sorption isotherms are nonlinear as evidenced by the Freundlich n values of 5 sediments being between 0.858 to 0.956. Sorption nonlinearity is found to be a function of the polarity index of sediments natural organic matter (NOM) with a high correlative coefficient of 0.9947, suggesting that the degree of condensation of NOM, characterized by its polarity index, is correlated with the sorption behavior of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. In addition, the sorption affinity (Koc) of the sediments for 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene increases with decreasing of NOM polar, indicating that a higher sorption affinity in the sediments is associated with a higher degree of condensation of NOM. The Freundlich n values of chlorobenzene, 1,4-dichlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene are 0.755, 0.788, 0.858, 0.949 respectively, indicating that the smaller CBs molecule may result in more significant sorption nonlinearity.
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene, 1,3,5-trichlorobenzene, hexachlorobenzene, 1,2,4-tribromobenzene, 1,3,5-tribromobenzene and hexabromobenzene were compared for their abilities to induce acetanilide esterase, acentailide hydroxylase and procaine esterase. Except for hexabromobenzene all induced acetanilide esterase whereas the hydroxylation of acetanilide was seen only with the fully halogenated benzenes and with 1,3,5-tribromobenzene. Hepatic procaine esterase activity was increased by the three chlorinated benzenes and 1,2,4-tribromobenzene.
The elution behavior of polyethylene (PE) and the three stereoisomers of polypropylene (PP) was studied on porous graphite along with three other carbon-based sorbents, carbon-clad zirconia particles, activated carbon, and exfoliated graphite in a systematic way in this work. Decahydronaphthalene, 1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalene, 1,3,5-trimethylbenzene, tetrachloroethylene, xylene and p-xylene were used as mobile phases. While PE is adsorbed to various extents on all the tested carbonaceous sorbents from the majority of the solvents, PP is fully adsorbed only in selected cases. Testing alcohols (C7-C9) as mobile phase with Hypercarb™ indicates that all stereoisomers of PP are selectively adsorbed and desorbed when a solvent gradient alcohol→1,2,4-trichlorobenzene is used at 160°C. The retention of all stereoisomers of PP increases with the polarity of the alcohol. Linear PE is retained on Hypercarb™ even from 1,2-dichloro- and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, when a temperature below 120°C is applied, while it is not retained from these solvents at higher temperatures. All stereoisomeric forms of PP are not adsorbed under the same conditions. Some of the tested new sorbent/solvent systems have potential to be applied in routine analysis of industrially synthesised polyolefins.
Abstract The lack of adequate analytical methods for the quantification of plastic debris in soil challenges a better understanding of their occurrence and fate in the terrestrial environment. With this proof-of-principle study, we developed a simple and fast method for the selective quantification of the three most environmentally relevant polymers polyethylene (PE), polypropylene (PP), and polystyrene (PS) in soil using pyrolysis-gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (Py-GC/MS). In order to facilitate the preparation of calibration series and to better account for the heterogeneity of soil matrix, polymers were dissolved in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) at 120°C. Thereby, liquid sample aliquots from up to 4 g of solid sample became amenable to pyrolysis without further preparation. To evaluate the performance of this approach, three reference soils with 1.73–5.16% organic carbon (Corg) were spiked at 50 and 250μg g−1 of each polymer and extracted with TCB. A prior cleanup step with methanol, flocculation with KAl ( SO 4 ) 2 , and Fenton digestion were tested for their suitability to reduce potentially interfering Corg. Calibration curves responded linearly (adj. R2 > 0.996) with instrumental detection limits of 1–86 ng corresponding to method detection limits of 1–86μg g−1. The measurement repeatability was 3.2–7.2% relative standard deviation. Recoveries of 70–128% were achieved for plastic contents of 250μg g−1 extracted with TCB without prior cleanup from soils with less than 2.5% Corg. A higher Corg particularly interfered with the quantification of PE. The addition of non-target polymers (polyethylene terephthalate, polyvinyl chloride, poly(methyl methacrylate), and tire wear particles) did not interfere with the quantification of the analytes highlighting the selectivity of the method. Further research is needed to determine low plastic contents in soils exceeding 2.5% Corg. With 1–3 h processing time per sample, our method has the potential for routine analyses and screening studies of agricultural systems to be complemented with microspectroscopic techniques for additional information on particle shapes and sizes.
Different 13C NMR methods of determining triad distributions in two poly(ethylene-co-1-hexene) copolymers are examined using high signal-to-noise ratio 13C NMR spectra of the copolymers dissolved in deuterated 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene at 398 K. This examination includes a comparison of three integration techniques. The experimental impact of decoupler sidebands and significantly nonequal 13C NOE values are examined. A least-squares regression analysis technique for solving for triad mole fractions is tested and appears to be more reliable than two published algebraic expressions (and other expressions examined in the work reported here). The resultant triad mole fractions are compared to sequence distribution parameters expected by Bernoullian and first-order Markovian statistical models. On the basis of 13C NMR-determined average reactivity ratios, the copolymer designated sample B (5.3 mol % 1-hexene) appears to be a Bernoullian copolymer resulting from a single-site catalytic system. The copolymer designated sample S (3.6 mol % 1-hexene overall) is better described as a mixture of polyethylene and a Bernoullian copolymer with 6.4 mol % 1-hexene content, and thus appears to result from a multisite catalytic system.
A three-dimensional metal organic framework (3D-MOF) and a two-dimensional polyoxometalate (2D-POM), both incorporating nanostructured molybdenum (VI) oxide, were synthesized and implemented for headspace needle trap extraction of traces of chlorobenzenes (CBs). The 3D-MOF of type {(Mo2O6)(4,4'-bpy)}n and the 2D-POM of type [4,4'-bpy][Mo7O22] were synthesized by a solvothermal process and characterized by FT-IR, powder X-ray diffraction, scanning electron microscopy, transmission electron microscopy, thermogravimetry, energy dispersive X-ray, elemental mapping and Brunner-Emmet-Teller adsorption analyses. The 3D-MOF proved to be superior. Following thermal desorption, the CBs (monochlorobenzene, 1,4-dichlorobenzene, 1,2-dichlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and 1,2,3,4-tetrachlorobenzene) were quantified by GC-MS. Under optimized conditions, the calibration plots are linear in the 1-1000 ng.L-1 concentration range, and the limits of detection range from 0.2 to 2 ng.L-1. The intra- and inter-day relative standard deviations for three replicates at levels of 10 and 200 ng.L-1 are in the range of 5-12% and 10-15%, respectively. The needle-to-needle reproducibility was also found to be in the range of 6-13%. The application of the method to the analysis of various spiked real water samples resulted in recoveries between 84 and 114%. Graphical abstract A comparison of extraction efficiency between 3D-MOF and 2D-POM, in which 3D-MOF is superior to isolate organic pollutants, due to possession of more 4,4'-bpy ligands and interaction sites.
Chronic effect and no effect concentrations (28 day) and acute toxicity (48 hr, LC50 and EC50) values were determined forDaphnia magna with some chlorinated benzenes, chlorinated ethanes, and tetrachloroethylene. Acute and chronic toxicity generally increased with the degree of chlorine substitution with these chemicals. The 48 hr LC50 values for hexachloroethane, pentachloroethane, 1,1,2,2-tetrachloroethane, 1,1,2-trichloroethane, 1,2-dichloroethane, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, 1,3-dichlorobenzene, and tetrachloroethylene were 2.9, 7.3, 62, 190, 270, 2.1, 7.4, and 18 mg/L, respectively. The lowest observable effect concentrations (LOEC) based on either reproductive impairment or growth for 1,1,2,2-tetrachloroethane, 1,1,2-trichloroethane, 1,2-dichloroethane, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, 1,3-dichlorobenzene, and tetrachloroethylene were 14, 26, 20, 0.69, 1.5, and 1.1 mg/L, respectively. Length of animals at the end of chronic exposure was at least as sensitive a measure of toxic effect as reproduction with every chemical tested except 1,2-dichloroethane. The acute-chronic ratio ranged from 3 to 16 with these chemicals.
Linear polyethylene standards in the range of 1-500 kg/mol, dissolved in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, were injected into a column packed with oligo(dimethylsiloxane) modified silica gel. Fifteen polar solvents (cyclohexanone, cyclohexylacetate, cyclohexanol, nonylalcohol, dimethylformamide, dimethyl sulfoxide, ethylene- and diethylene glycol monobutyl ether, benzylalcohol, hexylacetate, bis(2-ethyl-hexyl)phthalate, N,N-dimethylacetamide, propylene carbonate, dipropylene glycol and N-methyl-pyrrolidone) were evaluated as mobile phases. Depending on the type of mobile phase evaluated, different elution behaviors are observed for polyethylene: (1) polyethylene was eluted in the size exclusion mode, (2) polyethylene was eluted together with the sample solvent peak at constant elution volume, (3) polyethylene was partially or fully retained on the column. The retained polymer was easily removed from the column by injecting a small volume of trichlorobenzene. The use of ethylene glycol monobutyl ether as the mobile phase enabled separation of the polyethylene from polypropylene. In this case polypropylene is eluted in the size exclusion mode, while polyethylene is eluted at a constant elution volume or remains in the column.
Abstract Treatment of dilithium phthalocyaninate [Li 2 (Pc)] with Ln III (acac)(TPP) (Ln=Sm, Eu, Gd; acac=acetylacetonate; TPP=5,10,15,20-tetraphenylporphyrinate) prepared in situ from Ln(acac) 3 · n H 2 O and (TPP)H 2 in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene led to the formation of heteroleptic triple-decker complexes (TPP)Ln III (Pc)Ln III (TPP) and (Pc)Ln III (Pc)Ln III (TPP) along with a small amount of the double-decker complexes Ln III (Pc)(TPP). The new compounds were characterised with 1 H NMR, UV–Vis, near-IR and Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance (FTICR) mass spectrometry.
Reaction of tris(2,4-pentanedionato)yttrium(III) with octaethylporhyrin, H2oep in refluxing 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) produces a trace (2%) of the double-decker, Y(oep)2 (3A) besides major amounts (72%) of the yttrium(III) monoporphyrinate, Y(oep)(acac) which are separated by chromatography. Appreciable yields of Y(oep)2 (3A) (25%) are obtained from dilithium octaethylporphyrinate, Li2(oep), formed in situ and Y(oep)(acac) in refluxing TCB. The constitution of the double-decker 3A is proved by UV/VIS, IR, 1H NMR, ESR, ENDOR, and mass spectra. The well-defined composition Y(oep)2 requires that one of the porphyrin rings is electron-deficient, i.e. the charge of the YIII ion is compensated by the normal porphyrinate dianion and a porphyrinate monoanion radical. The magnetic moment in the solid state, μeff=1.5 B.M. (5–100 K), demonstrates the radical nature of 3A as well. Under the time resolution of the methods used, the unpaired electron is delocalized between the two porphyrin rings. The wavenumber of ...
The degradation of aqueous 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) by ultrasound combined with element iron (US/Fe0) was investigated, the pseudo-first-order rate constant, kUS/Fe0, for TCB degradation by US/Fe0 was 0.0459 min-1, which was almost threefold as large as kUS, and greater than the sum of kUS and kUS, these evidences suggested that synergistic effect between US and Fe0 existed. The influence of Fe0 dose ([Fe0]), solution initial pH, initial TCB concentration, solution ionic strength and ultrasonic power, on the rate constant of TCB degradation by US/Fe0, were studied. The rate constant was found the largest at [Fe0] of 6 g·L-1, and initial pH 8.1 respectively, and increase with the increasing of solution ionic strength and ultrasonic power, but decrease with initial TCB concentration increasing.
Elucidation of molecular-level interactions controlling the sorption of organic compounds in soils is of major theoretical and practical interest. Sorption of pi-electron donor compounds, pentamethylbenzene (PMB), naphthalene (NAPH), and phenanthrene (PHEN), in a number of soils was found to increase with decreasing pH in the range of approximately pH 2.5-7. This behavior could not be attributed to pH-dependent alteration of the hydrophobic character of humic substances, pi-H-bonding, interaction with mineral surfaces, interaction with black carbons, solute coplanarity, or pH effects on solute activity coefficient. No significant effect of pH was observed for non-pi-donor hydrophobic compounds, whether planar or not: trans-1,2-dichlorocyclohexane (DCCH), hexachloro-1,3-butadiene (HCBD), 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB), 2,2',5,5'-tetrachlorobiphenyl, and 3,3',4,4'-tetrachlorobiphenyl. The opposite pH effect was observed for 2-nonanol and 2-nonanone, which are non-pi-donors, but capable of H-bonding. Also, no pH-dependent sorption was observed between the pi-donor PHEN and alumina, a model inorganic surface. We propose that the pi-donor solutes interact with pi-acceptor sites in soil organic matter (SOM), including aromatic rings with multiple carboxyl groups, aromatic amines, or heteroaromatic amines. The pi-acceptor ability of such aromatic moieties would increase with protonation. pi-pi Interactions between PMB, NAPH, and PHEN, and model SOM acceptors, 1,3,5-benzenetricarboxylic acid (BTA), 1,4,5,8-naphthalenetetracarboxylic acid (NTA), and pyridine (PY) in methanol and methanol-water, were verified by the appearance of pH-dependent upfield 1H NMR chemical shifts induced by ring current effects. UV/vis spectra showed pH-dependent charge-transfer bands for various donors with NTA. No NMR shifts or charge-transfer bands were found for nondonor compounds paired with the model acceptors.
Active methylene groups, substituted by ::: 9H-carbazol-9-yl (Carb) and aryl or 2-phenylethenyl ::: groups, condense with arylmethyleneanilines in DMF at 75 °C ::: in the presence of ButOK to form the ::: corresponding enamines [(Carb)(Ar1)C=C(Ar2)H] and ::: dienamines ::: [(Ar3)HCC(Carb)CHCHPh] in ::: almost quantitative yield. The 1H and 13C NMR ::: spectra for the enamine 1′Z-isomers [16 ::: (Ar1 = Ar2 = ::: 4-fluorophenyl), 17 (Ar1 = 4-fluorophenyl, ::: Ar2 = 4-tert-butoxyphenyl), ::: 19 ::: (Ar1 = Ar2 = 4- ::: tert-butoxyphenyl)], dienamine ::: 1′Z-isomers [14a ::: (Ar3 = 1-naphthyl), 14b ::: (Ar3 = 4-methoxyphenyl), 14c ::: (Ar3 = Ph)] and ::: 1′E-isomers [15a ::: (Ar3 = 1-naphthyl), 15c ::: (Ar3 = Ph)] and precursors are assigned with ::: the aid of COSY, HMBC, and HMQC techniques. The geometrical isomerism of ::: the different dienamines 14–15 is established by ::: 3JC-H NMR couplings and that of ::: enamine 12 by a difference NOE experiment. X-Ray crystal structures for ::: 16, 14a and 15c corroborate the isomerism results deduced by NMR ::: studies. Dienamines 14a and 15a hydrolyse to the ketone under relatively ::: strong acid conditions [AcOH–HCl–H2O ::: (18∶1∶1 v/v)] under reflux over 7 h. There is an equilibrium ::: between 14c and 15c in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene at ::: 180 ± 1 °C with ::: K = 15c/14c = 0.77 as ::: estimated from the kinetic rate profiles from HPLC data acquired over 4 ::: days. However, under the same conditions, 14a and 15a undergo an ::: equilibration concurrent with a reaction (monitored over 9 days) giving ::: apparently a carbazolyl-substituted phenylphenanthrene. In contrast, ::: enamine 16 is thermally stable with no detectable change after boiling ::: for 4 days in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene.
A soil which has been polluted with chlorinated benzenes for more than 25 years was used for isolation of adapted microorganisms able to mineralize 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB). A microbial community was enriched from this soil and acclimated in liquid culture under aerobic conditions using 1,2,4-TCB as a sole available carbon source. From this community, two strains were isolated and identified by comparative sequence analysis of their 16S-rRNA coding genes as members of the genus Bordetella with Bordetella sp. QJ2-5 as the highest homological strain and with Bordetella petrii as the closest related described species. The 16S-rDNA of the two isolated strains showed a similarity of 100%. These strains were able to mineralize 1,2,4-TCB within two weeks to approximately 50% in liquid culture experiments. One of these strains was reinoculated to an agricultural soil with low native 1,2,4-TCB degradation capacity to investigate its bioremediation potential. The reinoculated strain kept its biodegradation capability: (14)C-labeled 1,2,4-TCB applied to this inoculated soil was mineralized to about 40% within one month of incubation. This indicates a possible application of the isolated Bordetella sp. for bioremediation of 1,2,4-TCB contaminated sites.
This paper reports the synthesis of cellulose nanocrystals grafted by polystyrene chains via surface-initiated ATRP. Naturally occurring cellulose was first hydrolyzed to obtain cellulose nanocrystals. Their surface was then chemically modified using 2-bromoisobutyryl bromide to introduce initiating sites for ATRP. A varying extent of surface modification was achieved by changing reaction conditions. Further initiation of styrene polymerization from these modified nanocrystals with a CuBr/PMDETA (N,N,N',N',N''-pentamethyldiethylenetriamine) catalytic system and in the presence of a sacrificial initiator produced polysaccharide nanocrystals grafted by polystyrene chains. A range of nanocrystals-g-polystyrene with different graft lengths (theoretical polymerization degree = 27-171) was synthesized through this method and characterized by elemental analysis, XPS, FT-IR, TEM, and contact angle measurements. We are thus able to produce cellulose nanoparticles with varying grafting densities (by altering extent of initiator surface modification) and varying polymer brush length (through polymerization control). The nanocrystals-g-polystyrene (NC-g-PS) particles were tested for their capacity to absorb 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene from water. The results obtained show that they can absorb the equivalent of 50% of their weight in pollutant compared to 30 wt % adsorption for nonmodified nanocrystals, while also displaying faster absorption kinetics.
The ability of various types of cyclodextrin (CD) derivatives to adsorb chlorinated aromatics in insulating oil was evaluated. 6-O-tert-Butyldimethylsilylated β-CD (Si-β-CD) exhibited the highest ability to adsorb chlorinated aromatics in insulating oil among the CD derivatives examined in this work. In particular, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (90 ppm) was almost completely removed from the insulating oil by using this CD adsorbent. On the other hand, 6-O-tert-butyldimethylsilylated α-CD (Si-α-CD), which has a smaller ring than that of Si-β-CD, showed no affinity towards the chlorinated aromatics. The adsorption ability of native β-CD towards the chlorinated aromatics was much lower than that of Si-β-CD. These results show that both the ring size and the chemical modification of CD play an important role in the adsorption of chlorinated aromatics in insulating oil.
Adsorption of linear polyethylene and isotactic polypropylene on columns packed with zeolites ZSM-5, Y, and silicalite was studied using high-temperature liquid phase chromatography. Linear polyethylene was fully retained on a column packed with ZSM-5 zeolite from non-polar solvents, such as 1,1,2,2-tetrachloroethane and 1,3,5-trimethylbenzene at a temperature of 140°C. Partial adsorption on ZSM-5 zeolite was found for polyethylene in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and on silicalite from 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and 1,3,5-trimethylbenzene. On the other hand, adsorption of polyethylene was not found from polar liquids, such as 2-ethylhexyl acetate, cyclohexyl acetate, and cyclohexanone. Isotactic polypropylene was not adsorbed on any tested sorbent.
The aluminum chloride catalyzed reaction between β-14C-ethyl iodide and benzene in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene as solvent was studied under different conditions of temperature and reaction time. Yields of ethylbenzene were estimated by isotopic dilution. Up to 20% rearranged product, α-14C-ethylbenzene, was found. The trend indicated that yield of ethylbenzene was lower and side chain rearrangement greater when the reaction mixture was heated at higher temperature for longer time. The rearrangement apparently occurred after the initial formation of β-14C-ethylbenzene. After a reaction time of 5 min at 154 °C, only 0.1–0.3% unreacted and unrearranged β-14C-ethyl iodide was recovered while the ethylbenzene obtained from the reaction showed about 2% rearrangement. When β-14C-ethylbenzene was heated with aluminum chloride in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene for 2 or 24 h, rearrangement to α-14C-ethylbenzene was observed. In some experiments, a fragmentation product, toluene, was isolated. Its specific activity suggested tha...
The two-dimensional (2D) self-assembled networks of 2,7,12-trihexyloxytruxene (Tr) are shown to accommodate coronene guest molecules on highly oriented pyrolytic graphite (HOPG) surfaces. The host−guest structures are revealed by scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) at liquid/solid interfaces. The effect of solvents on the host−guest structures is intensively investigated in different solvents such as 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB), 1-phenyloctane, 1-octanol, and tetradecane. In contrast to the similar 2D hexagonal self-assembly of Tr host template on HOPG in different solvents, the formation of host−guest nanostructures of coronene in Tr 2D network strongly depend on the polarity of the solvents. The thermodynamic equilibrium during the host−guest assembly process is discussed, and the solvent−guest interaction is proposed as a main contributor for the observed solvent effect in the 2D host−guest self-assembly process. The results are significant to surface host−guest chemistry and nanopatterning.
In this paper,the degradation of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene(TCB) in water was studied using ozone-hydrogen peroxide-photocatalytic technology(O3/H2O2/UV),and the effects of pH,TCB initial concentration,O3 conversion,H2O2 dosage on TCB degradation and its dynamics were examined and analysed.Response surface methodology was employed for the optimization of degradation conditions by O3/H2O2/UV.The results showed that the degradation process was in line with pseudo-first order reaction kinetics and the kinetic equation was y=0.0219x-0.0127,pseudo-first order rate constant was 0.0219 min-1,with a linear correlation coefficient of 0.983.The response surface methodology analysis results showed that the optimal operating conditions were as follows: TCB initial concentration of 0.3 mg · L-1,pH=10.1,H2O2 dosage of 0.33 mmol · L-1 and O3 conversion rate of 99.8%.Under these conditions,the average removal rate of TCB was 94.2%,which matched well with the predicted value of 95.0%.
The reductive dechlorination kinetics of hexachlorobenzene and all other chlorinated benzene congeners (CBs) were evaluated using a mixed enrichment culture derived from a contaminated estuarine sediment. The predominant, sequential hexachlorobenzene dechlorination pathway was hexachlorobenzene → pentachlorobenzene → 1,2,3,5-tetrachlorobenzene → 1,3,5-trichlorobenzene → 1,3-dichlorobenzene. Very low levels of 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, and 1,4-dichlorobenzene were also detected. Batch dechlorination assays were performed separately for all CBs with an initial biomass concentration of 330 mg/L as volatile suspended solids, initial concentrations of CBs of 180 nM, and electron donor in excess. The maximum dechlorination rate (k‘) and the half-saturation coefficient (KS) as well as the pseudo-first-order rate constant (kobs) for eight dechlorination reactions were estimated by nonlinear regression of CBs progress curves data based on a Michaelis−Menten-type and the pseudo-first-order...
The ability of subsurface microbial communities to adapt to the biodegradation of xenobiotic compounds was examined in aquifer solids samples from a pristine aquifer. An increase in the rates of mineralization of radiolabeled substrates with exposure was used as an indication of adaptation. For some compounds, such as chlorobenzene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, slight mineralization was observed but no adaptation was apparent during incubations of over 8 months. Other compounds demonstrated three patterns of response. For m-cresol, m-aminophenol, and aniline intermediate rates of biodegradation and a linear increase in the percent mineralized with time were observed. Phenol, p-chlorophenol, and ethylene dibromide were rapidly metabolized initially, with a nonlinear increase in the percent mineralized with time, indicating that the community was already adapted to the biodegradation of these compounds. Only p-nitrophenol demonstrated a typical adaptation response. In different samples of soil from the same layer in the aquifer, the adaptation period to p-nitrophenol varied from a few days to as long as 6 weeks. In most cases the concentration of xenobiotic added, over the range from a few nanograms to micrograms per gram, made no difference in the response. Most-probable-number counts demonstrated that adaptation is accompanied by an increase in specific degrader numbers. This study has shown that diverse patterns of response occur in the subsurface microbial community.
The ability of subsurface microbial communities to adapt to the biodegradation of xenobiotic compounds was examined in aquifer solids samples from a pristine aquifer. An increase in the rates of mineralization of radiolabeled substrates with exposure was used as an indication of adaptation. For some compounds, such as chlorobenzene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, slight mineralization was observed but no adaptation was apparent during incubations of over 8 months. Other compounds demonstrated three patterns of response. For m-cresol, m-aminophenol, and aniline intermediate rates of biodegradation and a linear increase in the percent mineralized with time were observed. Phenol, p-chlorophenol, and ethylene dibromide were rapidly metabolized initially, with a nonlinear increase in the percent mineralized with time, indicating that the community was already adapted to the biodegradation of these compounds. Only p-nitrophenol demonstrated a typical adaptation response. In different samples of soil from the same layer in the aquifer, the adaptation period to p-nitrophenol varied from a few days to as long as 6 weeks. In most cases the concentration of xenobiotic added, over the range from a few nanograms to micrograms per gram, made no difference in the response. Most-probable-number counts demonstrated that adaptation is accompanied by an increase in specific degrader numbers. This study has shown that diverse patterns of response occur in the subsurface microbial community.
An anaerobic mixed bacterial culture was enriched for bacteria dechlorinating 1,2,3- and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) to dichlorobenzenes by exclusive use of non-fermentable substrates and the application of vancomycin. Growth and dechlorination occurred in a purely synthetic medium with formate or hydrogen, acetate, and TCB. Neither acetogenesis nor methanogenesis was detected in the culture. Repeated subculturing maintaining high dechlorinating activities was also achieved when only hydrogen and TCB were supplied. This indicated that reductive dechlorination of TCB was the primary energy conservating process. The number of dechlorinating bacteria was strictly limited by the amount of TCB supplied in the medium. In addition, the dechlorinating activity could be maintained only in the presence of TCB. A most probable number analysis showed that the dechlorinating species amounted to at least 6 x 10(5) cells per ml at a total cell number of about 2 x 10(6) cells per ml. Vitamin B12 significantly stimulated the dechlorinating activity.
Polyethylenes and azide-terminated polyethylenes can be converted to macroradicals and nitrenes, respectively followed by addition reactions onto the unsaturated system of graphite oxide sheets. For the first time, the addition of these macroradicals to graphite oxide sheets was compared by performing grafting reactions at 190 °C in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene as a solvent and at 100 °C followed by a solvothermal reduction at 150 °C in a solvent mixture of 1,4-dioxane and 1,2-dichlorobenzene. Dispersion of PE coated graphite oxide in a DMF–heptane mixture was utilised to follow the introduction of polyethylene onto the GO sheet surface while the thermogravimetric analysis indicated the extent of this grafting. The grafting ratio was found to be in the 1.5 wt% range and despite this low grafting content, the amount of grafted PE was high enough to dramatically improve the affinity of GO with the heptane phase in the DMF–heptane (50/50 v/v) mixture. Polyethylene functionalised GO was imaged by scanning electron microscopy showing a significant difference in morphology between the two grafting paths. It was found that a higher level of grafting was obtained using a radical grafting reaction in the presence of benzoyl peroxide rather than the thermal cleavage of PE-N3 onto GO while a similar grafting content was obtained with the thermal cleavage of PE-N3 onto GO grafted trimethoxy(7-octen-1-yl)silane.
Abstract Hydrodechlorination of 1,2,4-trichlorbenzene was carried out over ruthenium catalysts supported on γ-Al 2 O 3 , CeO 2 , ZrO 2 , SiO 2 , SBA-15 and activated carbon. In the hydrodechlorination of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, higher catalytic activities and longer catalyst life was achieved for Ru catalysts supported on carbon compared to Ru catalysts supported on other supports. The higher catalytic activity exhibited by carbon supported ruthenium catalysts was attributed due to high dispersion of Ru, metal area and smaller crystallite size owing to strong chemisorption of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene leading to complete hydrodechlorination.
Saturated vapor pressures have been measured for liquid 1,2-dichlorobenzene, 1,3-dichlorobenzene, 1,4-dichlorobenzene, and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene by precision comparative ebulliometry over an approximate pressure range from 6 to 105 kPa. The relative error in pressure is estimated to be less than or equal to ±0.05% of the measured value and the absolute error in temperature is estimated at less than or equal to ±0.01 K on ITS-90. The results have been represented by the Antoine and Wagner-type equations within experimental uncertainties and compared with the data so far available in the literature. On the basis of the present and previous measurements, vapor pressure equations for the chlorobenzenes covering the entire range of liquid existence have been constructed and discussed.
The sorptive and desorptive behavior of 1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene (TCB) was studied in a mixture of river sediments and TCB at initial aqueous concentrations of 0.5, 4, and 21 mg/L. All experiments were performed at a temperature of 20∘C and at pH 5.58. Grain size, fraction of organic carbon (FOC), and pH analyses were conducted to determine the initial condition of the sediment. Adsorption experiments reached equilibrium 8 hours after the start of the experiment. Adsorption data were used to calculate the monolayer sorption capacity (Q), the Langmuir entropy constant (b), the Freundlich adsorption coefficients (Kd, Kd′), and the Freundlich characteristic constant (n) as well as R-square values. Desorption experiments utilized a 4 g/L persulfate solution added to soils “pre-contaminated” with TCB during the adsorption experiments. Studies indicated that persulfate was an effective oxidizer of both sediment organic matter and TCB. After a contact time of 5 hours, the mass of sediment organic carbon was reduced from 4.45% to 0.44%. The TCB released to solution with organic matter oxidation was then oxidized to non-detectable levels by persulfate and the possible presence of free radicals. The conclusions were made that persulfate has the potential to be an effective oxidizer of both TCB and sediment organic matter.
The degradation of 1,2,3-, 1,3,5- and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) by the white-rot fungus Trametes versicolor was studied. Time course experiments showed a degradation rate of 2.27 and 2.49 nmol d(-1)mg(-1) dry weight of biomass during the first 4d of incubation in cultures spiked with 6 mg L(-1) of 1,2,3- and 1,2,4-TCB, respectively. A high percent of degradation of 91.1% (1,2,3-TCB) and 79.6 (1,2,4-TCB) was obtained after 7d. However, T. versicolor was not able to degrade 1,3,5-TCB under the conditions tested. For a range of concentrations of 1,2,4-TCB between 6.5 and 23 mg L(-1), a complete dechlorination of the molecule was observed. Cytochrome P450 monooxygenase appears to be involve in the first step of 1,2,4-TCB degradation, as evidenced by marked inhibition of both dechlorination and degradation of 1,2,4-TCB in the presence of the known cyt P450 inhibitors 1-aminobenzotriazole and piperonyl butoxide. Four intermediates formed from 1,2,4-TCB degradation were detected the second day of incubation, which did not appear the seventh day: 2,3,5-trichloromuconate, its corresponding carboxymethylenebutenolide, 2- or 5-chloro-4-oxo-2-hexendioic acid and 2- or 5-chloro-5-hydroxy-4-oxo-2-pentenoic acid. Based on these results, a degradation pathway of 1,2,4-TCB through cyt P450 monooxygenase and epoxide hydrolase was proposed.
A risk assessment on 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene was carried out specifically for the marine environment according to the methodology laid down in the EU Risk Assessment Regulation 1488/94 and the Guidance Documents of the EU Existing Substances Regulation 793/93. The study consists of the collection and evaluation of data on effects and environmental concentrations from analytical monitoring programs in large rivers and estuaries in the North Sea area. The risk is indicated by comparing the predicted environmental concentration (PEC) with the predicted no-effect concentrations (PNEC) for the marine aquatic environment. A PNECwater) value of 0.3 microg/l and a PNECsed value of 38 microg/kgdw were derived from the results of toxicological studies in organisms representing three trophic levels, i.e. aquatic plants, invertebrates and fish. Based on monitoring data two situations are distinguished: a typical case and a worst case with a PECwater of <0.047 and 0.1 microg/l, respectively, and a PECsed of 40 and 90 microg/kgdw, respectively. The calculated PEC/PNEC ratios were 0.16 and 0.3 for water and 1 and 2.4 for sediment, respectively. It was concluded that no risks are expected for aquatic organisms. Based on the combination of worst-case assumptions risks to benthic organisms could not be fully excluded, but since all open uses of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene will be ended following the EU risk assessment outcome of 2001 any potential risk is expected to be reduced accordingly. 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene is not considered toxic according to the EU criteria and the available data on persistence of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene indicate a half-life in water of a few days and a significant biodegradation potential. The bioaccumulation potential is low to moderate with most BCF ratios for fish ranging from 600 to 1400 and one highest of 2020. Based on an extensive evaluation of persistence, biodegradation and bioaccumulation data it is concluded that 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene is not a PBT, since it does not fulfill any of the EU criteria. Biomagnification in the food chain is not expected due to the relatively high elimination rate constants.
Abstract A study leading to the development of a piezoelectric sensing device for environmental monitoring of aromatic micropollutants in water is reported. A Piezoelectric Quartz Crystal (PQC) was functionalized through electropolymerization of a quinoxaline cavitand, known to possess remarkable capabilities in selectively trapping aromatic compounds through multiple π-π and CH-π interactions. The obtained film was characterized via X-ray Photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) to elucidate its chemical composition. The design and synthesis of the new quinoxaline cavitand functionalized at the upper rim with a bithiophene moiety suitable for electropolymerization is described. The molecular structure of the new receptor was elucidated via X-ray diffraction analysis. The performance of the obtained sensor towards selected chlorinated and not chlorinated hydrocarbons in water was tested. Excellent limit of detection (0.17 ppm), below the present stringent Italian value, was achieved for 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, outperforming conventional systems. The frequencymetric sensor showed high reproducibility from independent functionalized PQCs, with RSD values lower than 5%.
Sodium hydroxide (NaOH, pellet), sodium hydride (NaH, 60% in oil), potassium carbonate (K 2 CO 3 , 98%), tetrabutylammonium bromide (TBABr, 99%), hexylamine (99%), dimethyl carbonate (DMC, 99%), 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB, 99%), 1,5,7-triazabicyclodec-5-ene (TBD, 98%), 2,2-bis(hydroxymethyl)propionic acid (DMPA, 98%), ammonium chloride (99.5 %), sodium sulfate (Na 2 SO 3 , magnesium sulfate (MgSO 4 ), sodium carbonate (NaHCO 3 ), 1-thioglycerol (>99%), 1-decene (94%), meta-chloroperbenzoic acid (mCPBA, 77%), O-
The self-assembly of an adsorbate as a function of the strength of solvent-substrate adsorption is an important yet relatively unexplored subject. In this study, how the strength of solvent-substrate adsorption and solvent-solvent attraction affects the assembly of tetrakis(octadecylthio)tetrathiafulvalene (1) is scrutinized by scanning tunneling microscopy (STM). For solvents with strong intermolecular interactions and adsorption onto graphite, such as long n-alkanes (C(n)H(2n+2), n ≥ 13), STM reveals that the solvent molecules form lamellae which become a template to direct the assembly of 1 into one-dimensional arrays. The lengths of one of the unit cell vectors for the assemblies are increased and well correlated with the solvent sizes. In situ STM monitoring of 1 introduced onto graphite with preadsorbed n-tetradecane adlattices shows that the developed assemblies of 1 have striped features aligned parallel to the underlying template. In contrast, for solvents with weak adsorption, such as short n-alkanes (C(n)H(2n+2), n ≤ 12), toluene, and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, the adlattice structures of 1 are solvent-independent.
We report on an experimental study of the charge transport through tunnel gaps formed by adjustable gold electrodes immersed into different solvents that are commonly used in the field of molecular electronics (ethanol, toluene, mesitylene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, isopropanol, toluene/tetrahydrofuran mixtures) for the study of single-molecule contacts of functional molecules. We present measurements of the conductance as a function of gap width, conductance histograms as well as current–voltage characteristics of narrow gaps and discuss them in terms of the Simmons model, which is the standard model for describing transport via tunnel barriers, and the resonant single-level model, often applied to single-molecule junctions. One of our conclusions is that stable junctions may form from solvents as well and that both conductance–distance traces and current–voltage characteristics have to be studied to distinguish between contacts of solvent molecules and of molecules under study.
The invention belongs to the technical field of herbicide dicamba preparation and relates to a dicamba preparation process. The dicamba preparation process includes steps: taking benzene as a raw material to generate 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene through directional chlorination, catalysis, re-chlorination and rectification; hydrolyzing the 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene to generate a mixture of 2,5-dichlorophenol and 2,4-dichlorophenol, and separating and purifying to obtain 2,5-dichlorophenol; using the 2,5-dichlorophenol to prepare 3,6-dichlorosalicylic acid; subjecting the 3,6-dichlorosalicylic acid to methylation, saponification, acidification and the like to obtain dicamba. By optimization of technical steps and parameters, the whole dicamba preparation process has advantages of simplicity, low cost, high yield, high selectivity, remarkable reduction of wastewater and increase of equipment utilization rate.
Extractive distillation is one of the most effective processes for the separation of ethylbenzene and p-xylene. The goal was to find single solvents or combinations of multi-solvents with good properties while minimizing the ratio of solvent to feed. The distillations were performed at equilibrium to determine the relative volatility of ethylbenzene to p-xylene with the extractive solvents under isothermal condition. For a single extraction solvent, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene had the highest relative volatility at 1.123. In some cases, combinations of two or three solvents were used as well as different ratios of solvent to feed to investigate the synergy effect of the mixture solvents. The binary solvent mixture of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and maleic anhydride (2: 1) had the best performance with a relative volatility of 1.228 at the solvent/feed ratio of 1: 1. Some of the solvents were further studied at different solvent/feed (S/F) ratios. Selected solvents generally tended to have higher relative volatilities at high S/F ratios, but the operation cost will increase. Therefore, it is important to find the proper conditions to optimize the S/F ratio for extractive distillation from the industrial point of view.
Treatment of 5,10,15,20-tetra-4-pyridylporphyrin [(TPyP)H2] with europium(III) or gadolinium(III) acetylacetonate [Ln(acac)3 · nH2O] (Ln = Eu, Gd) in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene produced Ln(acac)(TPyP), which reacted with dilithium phthalocyaninate [Li2(Pc)] to give Li[Ln(Pc)(TPyP)] in moderate yields. Upon exposure to air, solutions of these compounds converted slowly to the corresponding neutral complexes Ln(Pc)(TPyP). The new compounds were spectroscopically characterized.
AbstractSurface soil contamination is a worldwide problem that is often addressed by the use of regulatory guidance values (RGVs) that establish the maximum amount of contamination that may exist without prompting a regulatory response. Chlorinated benzenes are a family of 12 synthetic aromatic contaminants for which at least 168 jurisdictions have promulgated guidance values. Analysis of the 973 RGVs for the eight most commonly regulated chlorinated benzenes is presented. The RGVs of chlorobenzene, 1,2-, 1,3- and 1,4-diclorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene, and hexachlorobenzene vary by over six orders of magnitude. The RGVs for pentachlorobenzene vary by five orders of magnitude. The RGV distributions resemble those of lognormal random variables, but contain nonrandom clusters and extreme values that deviate from the lognormal distribution model. Point clusters appear to reflect the influence of organizations such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) and the Can...
The effects of environmental loads (physical, chemical, biological) interfere with human homeostatic psycho-neuroendocrine-immune mechanisms. Clarifying the role of the triggered effects and their impact factors became an acute task for the 21st century. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of chemical (aromatic/halogenated hydrocarbons) and physical (extreme low frequency and dose electromagnetic fields: ELF-EMF) environmental loads as endocrine disruptors (ED). In addition, we have investigated the role of these factors in cell and individual exposure to clarify the mechanisms induced. We considered it particularly important to ::: study the relationship between indirect and direct effects in cell transformation events associated with endocrine regulatory disorders. In our work, we developed in vivo (Wistar rat chlorobenzene treatment through gastric tube; ♀ Wistar rats treatment by subcutaneous estrogen implantation; treatment of turkey with ELF-EMF), and in vitro (neurohypophysis, adenohypophysis monolayer cell culture) exposure models and standardized them for general viability and/or specific functional attractors (mechanism ::: cycles). The chemical agents tested were hexachlorobenzene: 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene = 1:1 (mClB); 1,4-dichlorobenzene (dClB); phenuron (PU), monuron (MU) and diuron (DU) as ED investigated for dose and time dependence. It has been found that said agents have ED effects on ::: OT, AVP, ACTH and PRL release. Furthermore, we have determined the human toxicity potential(HTP) values for dClB in the chemical exposures studied. We have demonstrated that ELF-EMF is a cellular ED which modifies the functions of cell membrane receptors (G proteins) involved in regulatory mechanisms. We developed an adenohypophyseal prolactinoma (PRLOMA) model by ::: estrogen stimulation through a positive feed-back mechanism. We have experimentally demonstrated that the functional derangement of the PRLOMA-like adenohypophysis with ED agents often triggers a non-compensable event cascade when compared to normal cell function. Based on our in vitro results, we also investigated the role of ED effects in the background of ::: thyroid cell transformation disorders diagnosed in medical practice. We found a correlation between ED exposures and anti-TG or anti-TPO-labeled thyroid malignant tumors, respectively. Our findings reveal that mClB, PU, MU, DU, and ELF-EMF can be regarded as ED. In addition, we have demonstrated that chronic endocrine regulatory disorders may induce cell transformation ::: so that the target cells of which show different behavior in their regulation compared to healthy cells. We have found a relationship between the real thyroid cell transformations (malignant tumors), the presence of anti-TG/anti-TPO markers and ED in the medical histories of the patients.
High-resolution 13C NMR spectra of cyclic paraffins, n-paraffins and polyethylene were measured in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene solution, and the results were compared with the solid state 13C high resolution NMR data measured previously. It is proposed that in cyclic paraffins up to C32, the conformation in the solid state is retained even in solution, all the methylene carbons within the cyclic paraffin exhibiting identical gauche-trans population with fast transition between the conformers in the ring plane, whereas in cyclic paraffins of larger carbon number, the conformation in the solid state is not retained in solution, the gauche-trans populations being different in this case. The conformation of n-paraffins and polyethylene is also discussed.
The influences of amphiphiles on the catalytic dechlorination of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (124TCB) bythe nanoscale Pd/Fe particles were comprehensively examined. The fresh and reacted Pd/ Fe particles were characterized with XRD, TEM, SEM, FTIR spectrometry, and goniometry. Adsorption of amphiphiles on the Pd/Fe particles, iron dissolution, and H2 evolution in the Pd/Fe-water system were quantified to expound the influences of the various amphiphiles on the dechlorination process. The Langmuir-Hinshelwood model is used to elucidate the dechlorination kinetics, and it provides insight into the influence of amphiphiles on 124TCB partitioning to the interfacial layer and the resulting dechlorination rates. The rate constants increased by a factor of 1.5--2.5 with the presence of cationic cetyltrimethylammonium bromide (CTAB). In the anionic sodium deodecyl sulfate(SDS) or nonionic nonylphenol ethoxylate (NPE) and octylphenolpoly (ethylene glycol ether)x (TX-100) surfactant solutions, the 124TCB dechlorination rates were slightly increased over those observed in ultrapure water. However, when concentrations of the surfactants were above their CMCs, the dechlorination rates decreased. The findings also showed that DPC (dodecylpyridinium chloride) and NOM (natural organic matter) might be the competitive H2 acceptors to 124TCB, and they significantly retarded its catalytic dechlorination by the Pd/Fe particles. CTAB at a concentration below the CMC appeared to be the most benign to the 124TCB dechlorination.
We report on an experimental study of the charge transport through tunnel gaps formed by adjustable gold electrodes immersed into different solvents that are commonly used in the field of molecular electronics (ethanol, toluene, mesitylene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, isopropanol, toluene/tetrahydrofuran mixtures) for the study of single-molecule contacts of functional molecules. We present measurements of the conductance as a function of gap width, conductance histograms as well as current-voltage characteristics of narrow gaps and discuss them in terms of the Simmons model, which is the standard model for describing transport via tunnel barriers, and the resonant single-level model, often applied to single-molecule junctions. One of our conclusions is that stable junctions may form from solvents as well and that both conductance-distance traces and current-voltage characteristics have to be studied to distinguish between contacts of solvent molecules and of molecules under study.
Hepatic arylesterase activity was induced by 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, hexachlorobenzene, 1,2,4-tribromobenzene, and 1,3,5-tribromobenzene but not by 1,3,5-trichlorobenzene or hexabromobenzene. Serum arylesterase was not induced by any of the halogenated benzenes and was inhibited in vivo by 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, hexachlorobenzene, and 1,3,5-tribromobenzene. It was also inhibited in vitro.
Abstract Lindane and other hexachlorocyclohexane isomers produced 2,4,6-trichlorophenol as the major oxidative metabolite when incubated in the presence of NADPH under aerobic condition. A mechanism for the formation of 2,4,6-trichlorophenol is proposed, which includes direct oxygenation of the cyclohexane ring. The proposed mechanism is supported by data from studies of model chemical reactions of the pentachlorocyclohexanol isomers. Pathways leading to 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, tetrachlorobenzene isomers, 2,4,5-trichlorophenol, and tetrachlorophenol isomers are discussed, and are considered to include the route through pentachlorocyclohexene and hexachlorocyclohexene. Reductive dechlorination of lindane under anaerobic condition was observed using microsomes and NADPH.
PURPOSE: A process of preparing new crystal polymorphs by phase conversion of a methyl-substituted, benzimidazolone-fused dioxazine pigment, an isomer thereof or a tautomer thereof is provided. Whereby, the polymorphs have low solubility, good fastness properties and violet colorations and can be used in coating materials, plastics, cosmetics, printing inks, electrophotographic toner and developers, powder coating materials, inks, preferably inkjet inks, and color filter, a coloring seed and the like. CONSTITUTION: The process for phase conversion of a methyl-substituted, benzimidazolone-fused dioxazine pigment of a compound C22H12Cl2N6O4 of formula 1, an isomer thereof, a tautomer or isomeric tautomer thereof comprises: treating the compound 1 with a solvent, a mixture of the solvent or a mixture of 1,2-dichlorobenzene and trifluoroacetic acid at 0 to 250deg.C, wherein the solvent is selected from the group consisting of N-methylpyrrolidone, C1-20 alcohol, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, trifluoroacetic acid and dichloroacetic acid.
Abstract This work investigated the formation of carbonaceous and nitrogenous disinfection by-products (C-DBPs, N-DBPs) upon chlorination of water samples collected from a surface water and a ground water treatment plant (SWTP and GWTP) where the conventional treatment processes, i.e., coagulation, sedimentation, and filtration were employed. Twenty DBPs, including four trihalomethanes, nine haloacetic acids, seven N-DBPs (dichloroacetamide, trichloroacetamide, dichloroacetonitrile, trichloroacetonitrile, bromochloroacetonitrile, dibromoacetonitrile and trichloronitromethane), and eight volatile chlorinated compounds (dichloromethane (DCM), 1,2-dichloroethane, tetrachloroethylene, chlorobenzene, 1,2-dichlorobenzene, 1,4-dichlorobenzene, 1,2,3-trichlorobenzene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene) were detected in the two WTPs. The concentrations of these contaminants were all below their corresponding maximum contamination levels (MCLs) regulated by the Standards for Drinking Water Quality of China (GB5749-2006) except for DCM (17.1 μg/L detected vs. 20 μg/L MCL). The SWTP had much higher concentrations of DBPs detected in the treated water as well as the DBP formation potentials tested in the filtered water than the GWTP, probably because more precursors (e.g., dissolved organic carbon, dissolved organic nitrogen) were present in the water source of the SWTP.
cis-β-[RuII(salenA)(CO)2] (salenA = N,N′-bis(3-R1-5-R2-salicylidene)-1,2-cyclohexenediamine dianion; R1 = R2 = But, 1a; R1 = Pri, R2 = H, 1b; R1 = But, R2 = H, 1c) complexes were prepared by treating Ru3(CO)12 with the respective H2salenA in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and structurally characterized by X-ray crystallography. Complexes 1a−c catalyze intramolecular cyclopropanation of trans-allylic diazoacetates N2CHCO2CH2CH═CHR (3, R = Ph, 4-ClC6H4, 4-BrC6H4, 4-MeC6H4, 4-MeOC6H4, 2-MeC6H4, 2-furanyl) under light irradiation to give cyclopropyl lactones 4 in up to 96% yield and up to 98% ee. DFT calculations on intramolecular cyclopropanation of 3a (R = Ph) with model catalyst cis-β-[RuII(salenA0)(CO)2] (salenA0 = N,N′-bis(salicylidene)-1,2-cyclohexenediamine dianion) reveal the intermediacy of both cis-β- and trans-[Ru(salenA0)(CHCO2CH2CH═CHPh)(CO)] bearing salenA0 in a nonplanar and planar coordination mode, respectively, with the cis-β-carbene species being a major intermediate in the catalytic carbenoid tran...
The rate of the bromine-exchange reaction between gallium bromide and n-butyl bromide in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and in nitrobenzene was measured at 19, 25 and 40., using n-butyl bromide labelled with Br-82. The results indicated that the exchange reaction was second order with respect to gallium bromide and first order with respect to n-butyl bromide. The third-order rate constant determined at is in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and in nitrobenzene. The activation energy, the enthalpy of activation and the entropy of activation for the exchange reaction were also determined
Palladium-catalyzed hydrodehalogenation (HDH) was applied for destroying 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene (TeCB) in mixtures of water and ethanol. This investigation was performed as a critical step in the development of a new technology for clean-up of soil contaminated by halogenated hydrophobic organic contaminants. The main goals of the investigation were to demonstrate the feasibility of the technology, to determine the effect of the solvent composition (water:ethanol ratio), and to develop a model for the kinetics of the dehalogenation process. All experiments were conducted in a batch reactor at ambient temperature under mild hydrogen pressure. The experimental results are all consistent with a Langmuir-Hinshelwood model for heterogeneous catalysis. Major findings that can be interpreted within the Langmuir-Hinshelwood framework include: (1) the rate of hydrodehalogenation depends strongly on the solvent composition, increasing as the water fraction of the solvent increases; (2) the HDH rate increases as the catalyst concentration in the reactor increases; (3) when enough catalyst is present, the HDH reaction appears to follow first-order kinetics, but the kinetics appear to be zero-order at low catalyst concentrations. TeCB is converted rapidly and quantitatively to benzene, with only trace concentrations of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene appearing as a reactive intermediate. The results obtained here have important implications for the further development of the proposed soil remediation technology, and may also be important for the treatment of other hazardous waste streams.
The use of a calibrated two-component model with a single blocking parameter for both adsorption onto mineral surfaces and partitioning into soil organic matter of two nonpolar sorbates (i.e., 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and benzene) was evaluated by using several humic acid (HA)-coated sands with different fractions of organic carbon (f(oc)) ranging from 0.006 to 0.154%. Sorption of nonpolar sorbates to both untreated and heated sands was nearly linear due to the reduction of heterogeneous adsorption potential by strongly adsorbed vicinal water molecules over hydrophilic mineral surfaces. Sorption of nonpolar sorbates to the HA-coated sands was also essentially linear, and resulted from a combination of adsorption onto mineral surfaces and partitioning into soil organic matter, with the dominance of either contribution depending on the properties of the sorbents (e.g., f(oc)) and the sorbates (e.g., K(ow)). Contrary to the previous studies suggesting that surface area is the only variable affecting the magnitude of the adsorption coefficient onto modified high-surface-area clay minerals, the difference in adsorptive affinity of nonpolar sorbates onto modified mineral surfaces (i.e., K(S,c)) relative to that for pure mineral surfaces (i.e., K(S)) also may be important for low-surface-area, coarse-grained model aquifer sands. However, the improvement in predicted sorption behavior by incorporating the blocking effect is insignificant for low-surface-area, coarse-grained model aquifer sands.
The solubilities and activity coefficients of six chlorinated organic compounds were determined in aqueous electrolyte solutions by UV-vis spectrophotometry at 25 o C. The salting-in and salting-out constants were determined. The systems studied were chlorobenzene, 1,3-dichlorobenzene, 1,4-dichlorobenzene, and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene in solutions of NaCl, HCl, Na 2 CO 3 , H 2 SO 4 , and CaCl 2 , chlorobenzene in solutions of (C 2 H 5 ) 4 -NBr, and 2,4-dichlorophenol and 2,4,6-trichlorophenol in solutions of NaCl. The experimental values were compared with these calculated from five salt effect theories. The modified internal pressure theory gives the most satisfactory results
Marine sediments and bivalves were sampled at 20 stations from coastal regions of Korea, to investigate the levels and patterns of some chlorobenzene isomers. Total chlorobenzenes were in the range of 0.32-3.55 ng/g dry weight in marine sediments and 0.26-0.84 ng/g wet weight in bivalves. Hexachlorobenzene levels in marine sediments and bivalves were lower thar or comparable to those levels of reported in other countries. Isomeric patterns of some chlorobenzenes in marine sediments and bivalves were slightly different. However, the pre-dominant isomer in marine sediments and bivalves was 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. Hexachlorobenzene contribution to total concentrations was higher in sediments than in bivalves.
Metal-organic frameworks (MOFs) are attractive stationary phases in the field of separation sciences for their unique properties such as large specific surface areas, high porosity, and diverse structures. However, there are few MOFs, which have ultrahigh porosities and gas uptake capacities. In this work, MOF-180 with exceptional porosity, a cage size of 15 × 23 Å, was grown on inner wall of capillary as a novel stationary phase for open-tubular CEC. It has been demonstrated that the MOF-180-modified capillary column exhibited good performance for separation of acidic, basic, and neutral analytes. As compared with MOF-199-modified column, MOF-180-modified column exhibited specific recognition and size selectivity to the tested compounds. The characteristics observed by SEM and FTIR indicated that MOF-180 was successfully grafted on the inner wall of the capillary. The precisions (RSDs) of retention time, peak area, and W1/2 for methylbenzene, ethylbenzene, n-propylbenzene, chlorobenzene, o-dichlorobenzene, and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene were 0.50-0.54%, 3.31-4.13%, 0.35-1.61%, 1.73-4.22%, 2.67-4.37%, and 1.60-3.38%, respectively. Besides, the run-to-run, day-to-day, and column-to-column RSDs of EOF were 0.6%, 4.19%, and 4.31%, respectively.
Unusual regiochemistry is observed in the products arising from the reaction of lithiated 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene with N,N-dimethylformamide and tetraalkyloxamides.
Clostridium rectum strain S-17 converts γ-1,2,3,4,5,6-hexachlorocyclohexane (HCH) related compounds to chlorobenzenes. The metabolites from γ-1,2,3,4,5,6-hexachlorocyclohexene and γ-1,3,4,5,6-pentachlorocyclohexene are identified as 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and 1,4-dichlorobenzene, respectively. ATP synthesis, converting these chlorinated compounds, is observed in the cell suspension of C. rectum as indicated by luciferase-luciferin reaction and phosphorylation of 32P-labeled phosphate. These observation lead to the conclusion that HCH and related compounds serve as artificial electron acceptors of the Stickland reaction, and therefore, the reductive dechlorination is associated with ATP synthesis.
The objective of the present study was to get more insight into the mechanisms that govern the high mineralization potential of a microbial community attached on a carrier material, as we found in an earlier study (Wang et al., 2010). A 1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) degrading microbial community - attached (MCCP) and non-attached (MCLM) on clay particles - was inoculated into a simplified mineral medium system. Signaling molecules (AHLs), cell growth and 1,2,4-TCB mineralization were measured at different sampling points. The production of AHLs in the MCCP system increased continuously with increasing key degrader (Bordetella sp.) cell growth and a positive correlation was observed between the production of AHLs and 1,2,4-TCB mineralization. In the MCLM system, however, 1,2,4-TCB mineralization was lower than in the MCCP system; the AHLs production per Bordetella cell was higher than in MCCP and there was no correlation between AHLs and mineralization. Moreover, in the MCCP system less different AHLs were produced than in the MCLM system. These results indicate that a microbial community attached on a carrier material has an advantage over a non-attached community: it produces signaling molecules with much less energy and effort to achieve a well-directed cell-to-cell communication resulting in a high and effective mineralization.
A detailed synthetic procedure based on the use of urea, dichlorophthalic acid, respective transition metal halides and [NH₄]₂[MoO₄] as a catalyst in the melt or by using 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene as a high-boiling inert solvent is described to gain 2,3,9,10,16,17,23,24-metallooctachlorophthalocyanines (MPcCl₈ compounds with M=Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu). In cases that a first purification by subsequent treatment of the crude materials with HCl, NaOH and HCl would not give rise to analytically pure compounds, a second novel purification by using pyridine is described. The degree of purity, exceeding always 98%, is determined by thermogravimetric analysis. Comparative IR, UV/Vis and PXRD studies of the MPcCl₈ compounds are reported.
Abstract trans -1,3,5-Trimethyl-1,3,5-triphenylcyclotrisilthiane (I) was prepared by treating methylphenyldichlorosilane with hydrogen sulfide in the presence of pyridine. Compound(I) exists in the boat form in the solid state. Rapidly interconverting twist boat or boat forms and possibly chair forms of (I) are believed to be present in solution on the basis of PMR data. Upon distillation at reduced pressure, (I) is converted into an equimolar mixture of cis and trans isomers of 1,3-dimethyl-1,3-diphenylcyclodisilthiane (II), and (III). One of these isomers was isolated by recrystallization from solution. The interconversion of the cis,trans -isomers (II) and (III) was found to be complete in 30 min at 179° in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. The interconversion of cyclosilthianes (I), (II), and (III) in solution was studied by NMR.
Abstract In order to test the influence of molecular shape and electrical properties on the anisotropic reorientation of small molecules in liquids, we have considered the following series: 1,2,3-trichlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, 2,6-dichloroanisole, 2-chloropyrimidine, orthodichlorobenzene, monochlorobenzene and benzene. All experimental results correspond to 0.1 M solutions in carbon disulfide at 300 K. Most of them were already available in the literature; the others (1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, monochlorobenzene and benzene) have been obtained in the present work. The relation η = C i η + τ 1 FR (τ i : experimental correlation time of reorientation relative to the i axis: τ 1 FR : calculated free-rotor correlation time; η: viscosity of the medium; C i : coefficient depending on the molecular shape) is verified for reorientations about the axis perpendicular to the aromatic plane and about the principal axis in the molecular plane which is close (or coincident forsymmetry reasons) to the dipole moment direction. In the former case, the inertial contribution is important and C iη has its slip limit value. whereas in the latter case the inertial contribution is less important and for C iη , a situation between the slip and stick limits prevails. This is in contrast to the motion around the axis which reorients the dipole moment; it is little dependent on the molecular shape and does not involve any inertial contribution but is reasonably well correlated with the dipole moment value.
Organochlorine compounds (OOCs) with a low boiling point in desalted crude oil were identified via gas chromatography (GC) with electron capture detection (ECD), and the possibility of their hydrolysis was evaluated thermodynamically under the conditions of industrial distillation of desalted crude oil. Six fractions, namely, gasoline, aviation kerosene, light diesel, heavy diesel, lubricating oil, and residual oil, were obtained via true boiling point distillation. Chlorine concentration results indicated that OOCs with low and high boiling points were concentrated in the gasoline fraction and residual oil, respectively. Qualitative and quantitative analyses of low-boiling-point OOCs, such as carbon tetrachloride, tetrachloroethylene, 1,1,1,3-tetrachloropropane, and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzenem were performed via GC–ECD. The four types of OOCs coexisted in the gasoline, aviation kerosene, and light diesel fractions. Thermodynamic analysis results indicated that the four types of OOCs could hydrolyze to form c...
Excess molar values (V E) and speeds of sound (u) for the binary mixtures of acetophenone with 1,2-dichlorobenzene, 1,3-dichlorobenzene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene have been measured at 303.15 K. Excess volumes are positive over the entire composition range in all the three binary mixtures. Isentropic compressibilities (K s) have been computed for the same systems from precise sound velocity and density data. Further, deviation in isentropic compressibility (ΔK s) from ideal behaviour was also calculated. ΔK s, values exhibit negative sign in all the mixtures. The experimental sound velocity data are analyzed in terms of free length theory (FLT) and collison factor theory (CFT). The measured data is explained on the basis of intermolecular interactions between unlike molecules.
Loading of zeolite NaZSM-5 with benzene and chlorine from the gas phase at −100 °C resulted in spontaneous reaction to form chlorobenzene and 1,4-dichlorobenzene as the sole products. Thermal reaction at elevated temperature (up to 0 °C) accelerates the rates toward these products and yields, in addition, some 1,3-dichlorobenzene and a small (<3%) amount of 1,2-dichlorobenzene. No higher chlorinated benzenes or chlorocyclohexanes are formed even upon 90% conversion of the loaded benzene. Reactions were monitored by in situ FT-infrared spectroscopy. Irradiation of 1,4-dichlorobenzene in the presence of Cl2 in the zeolite with green or blue light produced 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene as the only product at high conversion. Such selectivities of benzene chlorination by elemental chlorine are much higher than obtained currently by traditional methods. The sharp increase of the reaction rate in NaZSM-5 compared to that in homogeneous liquid or gas phase and the effect of electronic excitation by visible light are at...
Ralstonia eutropha (formerly Alcaligenes eutrophus) NH9 degrades 3-chlorobenzoate via the modified ortho-cleavage pathway. A ca. 5.7-kb six-gene cluster is responsible for chlorocatechol degradation: the cbnABCD operon encoding the degradative enzymes (including orfX of unknown function) and the divergently transcribed cbnR gene encoding the LysR-type transcriptional regulator of the cbn operon. The cbnRAB orfXCD gene cluster is nearly identical to the chlorocatechol genes (tcbRCD orfXEF) of the 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene-degrading bacterium Pseudomonas sp. strain P51. Transcriptional fusion studies demonstrated that cbnR regulates the expression of cbnABCD positively in the presence of either 3-chlorobenzoate or benzoate, which are catabolized via 3-chlorocatechol and catechol, respectively. In vitro transcription assays confirmed that 2-chloro-cis,cis-muconate (2-CM) and cis,cis-muconate (CCM), intermediate products from 3-chlorocatechol and catechol, respectively, were inducers of this operon. This inducer-recognizing specificity is different from those of the homologous catechol (catBCA) and chlorocatechol (clcABD) operons of Pseudomonas putida, in which only the intermediates of the regulated pathway, CCM for catBCA and 2-CM for clcABD, act as significant inducers. Specific binding of CbnR protein to the cbnA promoter region was demonstrated by gel shift and DNase I footprinting analysis. In the absence of inducer, a region of ca. 60 bp from position −20 to position −80 upstream of the cbnA transcriptional start point was protected from DNase I cleavage by CbnR, with a region of hypersensitivity to DNase I cleavage clustered at position −50. Circular permutation gel shift assays demonstrated that CbnR bent the cbnA promoter region to an angle of 78° and that this angle was relaxed to 54° upon the addition of inducer. While a similar relaxation of bending angles upon the addition of inducer molecules observed with the catBCA and clcABD promoters may indicate a conserved transcriptional activation mechanism of ortho-cleavage pathway genes, CbnR is unique in having a different specificity of inducer recognition and the extended footprint as opposed to the restricted footprint of CatR without CCM.
Pseudomonas nitroreducens J5-1 is able to use monochlorobenzene,1,2-dichlorobenzene,1,3-dichlorobenzene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene as sole carbon and energy sources,and it differs from those 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene degrading bacteria reported in substrate utilizing characters.PCR technique was used to amplify the genes of chlorobenzene dioxygenase and dehydrogenase of J5-1,and they were named as tcbA and tcbB,respectively.Homology analysis indicated that these genes and gene products were most closely related to those of Burkholderia sp.PS12.By alignment of the amino acid sequences of the α subunits of TcbAa(from J5-1) and TecA1(from PS12),four amino acid residues from site 307 to site 310 were found to be different(I307L,M308T,I309V,Q310E),which probably retarded the preference for the substrate 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene.Furthermore,the phylogenetic analysis of the dioxygenase α subunits showed that TcbAa was belong to the toluene/diphenyl subfamily,and was most closely related to the polychlorinated benzene dioxygenase α subunit.
Surface reactivity has become one of the most important issues in surface chemistry over the past few years. In this work, we, for the first time, have investigated the homo-coupling of a special terminal alkyne derivative on the highly oriented pyrolitic graphite (HOPG) surface. Using scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) technique, we have found that such coupling reaction seriously depends on the supramolecular assembly of the monomer on the studied substrate, whereas the latter appears an obvious solvent effect. As a result, the reaction in our system undergoes polymerization and cyclic dimerization process in 1-phenyloctane and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, respectively. That is to say, the solvent effect can be extended from the two-dimensional (2D) supramolecular self-assembly to surface chemical reactions, and the selective homo-coupling has been successfully achieved at the solid/liquid interface.
1. More than 60% of oral doses of 14C-1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (ca. 21 mg/kg) administered to rats were excreted in bile as S-trichlorophenyl-mercapturic acid pathway metabolites. 2. The biliary metabolites were ultimately excreted in urine mainly as the isomeric mercapturic acids. 3. An acetylated glutathione conjugate was isolated as a major metabolite in bile (8% dose). The acetyl group was shown by mass spectrometry to be on the glutamyl moiety. 4. A glutamylcysteine conjugate of trichlorobenzene was also isolated from bile as a major metabolite (8% dose). 5. Trichlorothiophenols were deduced not to be intermediates or end-products of enzymic metabolism of trichlorobenzene in rats because 14C-2,4,5-trichlorothiophenol dosed i.p. to rats was excreted as the S-glucuronide (17% dose) and as S-(methylsulphonyl-dichlorophenyl)-mercapturic acid (36% dose).
Treatment of octakis(octylthio)porphyrazine (H2OOSPz) with cis-bis(benzonitrile)dichloroplatinum(II) in a 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB)–n-BuOH mixture at 190 °C affords the asymmetric porphyrazine 2H-heptakis(octylthio)porphyrazine, H2HOSPz, in ca. 40% yield. In the key synthetic step the two-electron reduced diprotonated porphyrazine, [H2OOPz(4−)(H+)2] ::: (hemiporphyrazinogen), forms in nearly quantitative yield. This species undergoes nucleophilic substitution of an octylsulfide group by H−, affording the asymmetric porphyrazine, this process being favoured by the high-temperature induced charge and structural intramolecular rearrangements. The resulting molecule shows mesomorphic behaviour. Interestingly, in the presence of sodium acetate, or in neat TCB, the asymmetric porphyrazine does not form at all. Under these conditions, a PtCl2 molecular fragment coordinates both to a porphyrazine aza bridge and to a thioether moiety leading to the formation of the [H2OOSPz]PtCl2 complex. The S,N-coordination of the PtCl2 unit was proved by 1H, 195Pt{1H}, and 13C NMR spectroscopy, and supported by DFT (B3LYP) calculations. The complex conjugates high asymmetry with strong solvatochromism and, therefore, it is potentially interesting for nonlinear optics.
Abstract : A straightforward, efficient, and generalizable synthesis of symmetrically substituted 2,3,9,10,16,17,23,24-octaalkyl phthalocyanines and 2,3,9,10,16,17,23,24,30,31-decaalkyl uranyl superphthalocyanines from o-dialkyl benzenes is described. For phthalocyanines, the approach is illustrated for methyl and n-butyl substituents. and both metal-free and nickel complexes are reported. Uranyl superphthalocyanines have been prepared with methyl and n-butyl substituents. The new complexes have been characterized by a variety of chemical and physicochemical methods. Quantitative determination of the solubilities of substituted and unsubstituted phthalocyanine and superphthalocyanine complexes in both 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and toluene demonstrates decreasing solubility in the order (4,5-Bu2)5SPcUO2 (4-Me)5SPcUO2 (4,5-Me2)5SPcUO2 - SPcUO2 (4-Me)4PcH2 Ni(4,5-Bu2)Pc Ni(4,5-Me2) 4Pc - NiPc. Attempts to displace the uranyl ion from (4,5-R2)5SPcUO2 with acids or Cu(OAc)2 lead to the formation of (4,5-R2)4PcH2 or Cu(4,5-R2)4Pc, respectively. (Author)
The degradation of hexachlorobenzene (HCB) is of great concern and attracts considerable scientific and regulatory interests, due to the high toxicity, great bioaccumulation, and persistence of HCB in the environment. However, in the real HCB-contaminated soil, the effect of coexisting chlorobenzene congeners on the degradation capacity of HCB is poorly known. In this work, the anaerobic degradation behaviors of three coexisting chlorobenzene congeners pentachlorobenzene (PeCB), 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene (1,2,4,5-TeCB), and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) and the influence of initial pH and reaction temperature on the dechlorination of HCB in HCB-contaminated soil from the dye plant were studied. The amount and extent of accumulated coexisting chlorobenzenes was analyzed under different environmental conditions. The results indicate that the concentrations of three coexisting chlorobenzene congeners change in the form of wave. The anaerobic degradation activity of HCB is reduced due to the feedback inhibition caused by accumulation of coexisting chlorobenzene congeners, and the feedback inhibition varies from environmental conditions.
Twelve bacterial strains which were concerned with dechlorination of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) were isolated from the intestinal contents of rats and it was found that they belonged to Staphylococcus epidermidis (strain A-F), Staphylococcus saprophyticus (strain G), Streptococcus sp. (strains H and I), Bacillus sp. (strain J), Gram negative rod (strain K) and Lactobacillus sp. (strain L).In Staphylococcus epidermidis (Strain A), TCB was mainly converted to o-dichlorobenzene and the latter was preferentially converted to monochlorobenzene (MCB) among dichlorobenzenes (DCBs). These conversions proceeded only under a gas phase of hydrogen. Furthermore, dry and broken cells of intact bacteria also maintained the dechlorinating activities, which were stimulated by the addition of NADPH.Therefore, it was supposed that the conversion of TCB to MCB via DCBs was reductively carried out by enzymes originating from the isolated bacteria.
The development of a personal sampling and analytical method for the determination of three chlorinated benzenes in the air, including 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (120821), 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene (95943), and pentachlorobenzene (608935), are described. The selection of collection device and preliminary evaluation, an independent sampling method for the determination of the chlorinated benzenes, and evaluation of the total method are discussed. The personal air sampler consisted of a teflon filter in a stainless steel holder and a solid sorbent tube containing Amberlite XAD-s. The pooled relative standard deviations for the determinations of the compounds by the overall sampling and analytical method were 9.3 percent for 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, 9.7 percent for 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene, and 9.8 percent for pentachlorobenzene.
The concentration of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene that is additionally required within an organism for lethality, after long-term exposure to sediments, is evaluated as an endpoint for risk assessment. This additionally required body burden for lethality after 2 months of exposure to sediments from different locations, was significantly lower in sticklebacks exposed to the more polluted sediments. In two sediments a series of chemicals was analyzed; risk assessment using these data in combination with biota-to-sediment accumulation factors and supposing concentration-addition severely underestimated the ecotoxicological risk. The lethal body burden (LBB) of seawater acclimated sticklebacks did not differ from that of fish acclimated to fresh water. However, the LBB was significantly influenced by temperature. The use of the lethal body burden in risk assessment of sediments is discussed and compared to more conventional techniques.
The catalytic activity of the complexes FeCl2(PPh3)2, RuHCl (PPh3)3, RuH2(CO)(PPh3)3, RuHCl(CO)(AsPh3)3, RuHCl(CO) (PiPr3)2, OsHCl(CO)(PiPr3)2, OsH2Cl2(PiPr3)2, CoCl(PPh3)3, RhH2Cl(PiPr3)2, IrH2Cl(PiPr3)2, IrCl(PPh3)3, and IrH2(SiEt3) (COD)(PCy3) (COD=1,5-cyclooctadiene) in the simultaneous dehalogenation of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and the chlorination of HSiEt3 has been studied. The 3d metal complexes and the derivative IrH2(SiEt3)(COD)(PCy3) are unactive, while the 4d and 5d metal compounds simultaneously catalyze the dehalogenation of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and the chlorination of HSiEt3. The osmium and iridium derivatives are less effective catalysts than the derivatives of ruthenium and rhodium and undergo deactivation. Complexes RuHCl(PPh3)3 and RhH2Cl(PiPr3)2 also catalyze the dehalogenation of 1,2-, 1,3-, and 1,4-dichlorobenzene and chlorobenzene. The dehalogenation of 1,3- and 1,4-dichlorobenzene is favored over the dehalogenation of the 1,2-isomer.
An alternative way to chemically synthesize singleand few-layer graphene nanosheets, which has less defects and thereby much better conductivity, is via exfoliation from expanded graphite (EG) using organic solvents, such as N,N-dimethylformamide (DMF), N-methylpyrrolidone (NMP), chloroform and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene [9, 14, 15] . Nevertheless, these organic solvents are expensive, poisonous and require special care for handling.
gamma-Hexachlorocyclohexane dehydrochlorinase (LinA) catalyzes the initial steps in the biotransformation of the important insecticide gamma-hexachlorocyclohexane (gamma-HCH) by the soil bacterium Sphingomonas paucimobilis UT26. Stereochemical analysis of the reaction products formed during conversion of gamma-HCH by LinA was investigated by GC-MS, NMR, CD, and molecular modeling. The NMR spectra of 1,3,4,5,6-pentachlorocyclohexene (PCCH) produced from gamma-HCH using either enzymatic dehydrochlorination or alkaline dehydrochlorination were compared and found to be identical. Both enantiomers present in the racemate of synthetic gamma-PCCH were converted by LinA, each at a different rate. 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) was detected as the only product of the biotransformation of biosynthetic gamma-PCCH. 1,2,4-TCB and 1,2,3-TCB were identified as the dehydrochlorination products of racemic gamma-PCCH. delta-PCCH was detected as the only product of dehydrochlorination of delta-HCH. LinA requires the presence of a 1,2-biaxial HCl pair on a substrate molecule. LinA enantiotopologically differentiates two 1,2-biaxial HCl pairs present on gamma-HCH and gives rise to a single PCCH enantiomer 1,3(R),4(S),5(S),6(R)-PCCH. Furthermore, LinA enantiomerically differentiates 1,3(S),4(R),5(R),6(S)-PCCH and 1,3(R),4(S),5(S),6(R)-PCCH. The proposed mechanism of enzymatic biotransformation of gamma-HCH to 1,2,4-TCB by LinA consists of two 1,2-anti conformationally dependent dehydrochlorinations followed by 1,4-anti dehydrochlorination.
A Porous Graphitic Carbon (PGC) column was evaluated for the analysis of poly(phenylene ether) (PPE). This column appears particularly well-suited for the separation of this polymer. Conditions for the elution of PPE either in adsorption mode with chloroform or size exclusion with 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) as eluent were established. Elution of homologous species is obtained in chloroform that follows Martin's rule. A separation based on a gradient consisting of a sequence of non-solvent (acetonitrile), solvent/adsorli (chloroform) provided the highest peak capacity. In TCB, it is possible to obtain rapid size-based separation: with a flow rate of 0.7ml/min, the run time is less than two minutes for a series of polystyrene standards. The PGC column performs remarkably well in this mode and may be a viable solution when a short analysis time is critical such as in a combinatorial laboratory or in a two-dimensional chromatograph. In addition to its value as a sorbent for polymer separation, this column also deserves the attention of the materials engineer. Indeed, the PGC sorbent can be used as a model to probe the interaction between polymers and graphitic fillers such as carbon nanotubes or graphite nanosheets.
The responses of rice roots to 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene(TCB) stress were investigated by proteomic analysis,electron micrograph observation,and lipid peroxide estimation.The results showed that TCB stress inhibited root growth,led to water deficit in rice seedlings,affected cell structure and caused lipid peroxidation in rice roots.Moreover,TCB stress had significant effect on global proteome in rice roots.The analysis of the category and function of TCB stress inducible proteins showed that different groups of proteins were induced by 5 mg L-1 TCB stress.They are detoxification enzymes(including esterase,aldo/keto reductases,and glutathione S-transferase),cell wall compound metabolism related enzymes(including UDP-glucose protein transglucosylase and GDP-mannose 3,5-epimerase 1),phytohormone metabolism and regulation related enzymes or proteins(including aci-reductone dioxygenase 4,beta-glucosidase,two members of pathogenesis-related proteins from family 10),primary and secondary metabolism regulative enzymes(including translational elongation factor Tu,cytosolic orthophosphate dikinase,triosephosphate isomerases,alanine aminotransferase,and isoflavone reductase).Compared the TCB stress inducible proteins between two cultivars,β-glucosidase and PR10 proteins were particularly induced in Aizizhan roots, and glutathione S-transferase and aci-reductone dioxygenase 4 were induced in Shanyou 63 roots.This might be one of the important mechanisms for Shanyou 63 having higher tolerance to TCB stress than Aizizhan.
Radical cation salts of bis(ethylenedithio)tetrathiafulvane (BEDT-TTF) and its derivatives have been extensively studied owing to their ability to combine physical properties through crystal engineering of the cationic and anionic layers. 15 BEDT-TTF salts containing tris(oxalato)metallate anions have provided a large family of materials of the formula (BEDT-TTF) 4 tris(oxalato)metallate anion layers form a honeycomb-like network with a hexagonal cavity capable of including a guest solvent molecule from the electrolyte being used for electrochemical synthesis of the material. Changing the shape and size of the guest solvent molecule within the anion layer 25 causes subtle changes in the hydrogen bonding interactions between insulating anion layer and conducting cation layer and leads to a variety of ground states. β" donor packing is observed in many cases and depending on the guest solvent molecule leads to superconductivity (M = Fe 3+ , Guest = 30 PhCN, PhNO 2 , PhBr, PhF), 1,2 metallic (M = Fe 3+ , Guest = PhCl, DMF), 3 semiconducting (M = Fe 3+ , Guest = PhI) 4 or metal-insulator behaviour (M = Fe 3+ , Guest = pyridine). 5 In some cases the electrolyte molecule is not included in the hexagonal cavity due to its size/shape e.g. 1,2, trichlorobenzene, 6 carvone. 7 However it has been shown that 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene is an excellent solvent in which to grow crystals of this type in combination with a smaller guest molecule and ethanol. 6 When a guest solvent molecule is slightly too large to fit in 40 the cavity it protrudes from one side of the anion layer and results in the two faces of the anion layer having different interactions with the neighbouring donor layers. This gives rise to two different donor packing types with different electronic ground states in alternate layers. α-Pseudo-κ 45 packing has been found with 1,2-dibromobenzene giving metallic behaviour, 8 whilst a metal-insulator transition is observed in the α-β" phases obtained from PhN(CH 3 )COH, PhCH 2 CN or PhCOCH 3 .
Chlorobenzenes in 40 anaerobically digested, lagoon dried sewage sludges were analysed by a Soxhlet extraction, Florisil clean-up and capillary gas chromatography method. These sludges had been applied to the plots of a long-term agricultural experiment from 1942 to 1961. Before application, the sewage sludges had been stored in lagoons at a sludge disposal works for about 1–5 years. Although some of the chlorobenzenes may have been lost during this period, substantial fractions remained at the time of field application. The mean concentration of the sum of the chlorobenzenes in the sludges was 43.7 μg/kg, with a range of 7.90–219 μg/kg. The five priority pollutants, i.e. 1,4-dichlorobenzene, 1,3-dichlorobenzene, 1,2-dichlorobenzene, hexachlorobenzene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, were the most abundant. The concentrations of chlorinated benzenes generally decreased with increased chlorine substitution, although hexachlorobenzene and pentachlorobenzene were present at relatively high concentrations. 1,4-Dichlorobenzene and hexachlorobenzene increased over the period 1942–1961 in the sludges, whilst the other compounds analysed increased only from 1954 onwards. The relationship between organic matter contents and chlorobenzene recoveries from the sewage sludges was tested by experiments and the results are discussed. The results from the archived sewage sludges provide an outline of the chlorobenzene content in the environment of the West London area over a period when no monitoring was undertaken. Levels in the archived sludges are generally much lower, by perhaps an order of magnitude, than for contemporary samples.
The nature of structure-function relationships between the mixed-function oxidase (MFO) system and certain chemically related xenobiotics has been studied. The total hepatic induction index has been modified and used to investigate whether the induction of hepatic MFO is primarily a response to molecular shape (entropic) or to the strength of specific carbon-hydrogen bond strength (enthalpic). Using both Sprague-Dawley male rats and ring doves (Streptopelia risoria) and testing with benzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, cyclohexane and gamma-1,2,3,4,5,6-hexachlorocyclohexane as both inducers and substrates, a response of the MFO system to substrate C-H bond strength has been found.
The densities of pure liquids cyclohexanol, 1,2-dichlorobenzene, 1,3-dichlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and binary liquid mixtures of cyclohexanol with 1,2-dichlorobenzene, 1,3-dichlorobenzene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene over the entire composition range were measured at four different temperatures (303.15K, 308.15 K, 313.15 K, 318.15 K). From this experimental data, the excess molar volume values were calculated over whole composition range. Excess molar volume values were found positive for all the mixtures at each temperature studied and the extent of positive deviation in excess molar volume values follows the order 1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene > 1,3Dichlorobenzene > 1,2-Dichlorobenzene.
Aggregates that may exist in poly(vinyl chloride) (PVC) solutions at ambient temperatures compromise the accuracy of SEC measurements of molecular weight distributions. Aggregate-free solutions can be produced in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) by controlling the dissolution time and temperature. SEC measurements were made in trichlorobenzene at 110°C after dissolution for 12 h at 120°C. An on-line continuous viscometer can be used to determine when aggregate-free solutions have been produced. The Mark-Houwink parameters (K = 0.161 mL/g, α = 0.762) can be used for universal calibration procedures in TCB at 110°C. Complete dissolution of the PVC affects the high molecular weight end of the molecular weight distribution. Measured Mn values are not affected, but Mz's are much higher than those estimated, for example, from room-temperature SEC analyses in tetrahydrofuran. Molecular weight distributions are also seen to be broader, especially for higher molecular weight PVCs. © 1993 John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
The D. mccartyi strain CBDB1 is adapted to organohalide respiration with chlorinated aromatic compounds such as different chlorinated benzenes, phenols, biphenyls and even chlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins [32] [33] [34] [35] . Figure 1 shows three selected chloroaromatic compounds and the dechlorination route observed with strain CBDB1. With regard to the dechlorination of polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins, strain CBDB1 can even dechlorinate the most toxic congeners 1,2,3,7,8-penta-and 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin to 2,7-or 2,8-dichlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (DCDD), resulting in a strong reduction in the toxicity [33] . The transcriptional response of all 32 rdhA genes of strain CBDB1 during dechlorination of 1,2,3-and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzenes (TCBs) was investigated using a combined reverse transcription (RT)-PCR/terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis (t-RFLP) approach [36] . This approach enabled the simultaneous detection of 29 of 32 rdhA transcripts. The transcription of the remaining three rdhA genes was also detected by reverse transcription-quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR). In summary, the upregulation of all 32 rdhA genes could be observed following the addition of 1,2,3-or 1,2,4-TCB. However, a differential upregulation of at least two rdhA genes, cbdbA1453 and cbdbA1624, in response to 1,2,3-and 1,2,4-TCB, respectively, was suggested by the results. RT-qPCR revealed that the transcript levels of ten analysed rdhA genes differed by several orders of magnitude. As expected, the rdhA gene cbrA, encoding a chlorobenzene reductase [37] , was transcribed at the highest level in the presence of both TCBs [36] . Although cbrA is colocalized with genes encoding a TCS system, cbdbA1624 and cbdbA1453 are preceded by marR genes suggesting that different regulatory principles might be involved in controlling the dechlorination of 1,2,3-TCB and 1,2,4-TCB.
Abstract Dechlorinations of pentachlorophenol and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene were achieved using NaBH4 in tetraglyme at 290–315°C and by NaBH4/LiCl at 125–135°C in diglyme, triglyme or tetraglyme after premixing at room temperature.
Effects of different 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) concentrations on membrane lipid peroxidation in soybean hypocotyls were studied with pot culture experiment. The results indicated that during the beginning (1st-3rd day) of 100-300μg·g-1TCB treatments, the accumulation of H2O2, membrane electrolytic leakages and tissue autooxidation rates in soybean hypocotyls all enhanced. During 1-6 d of TCB stress, activities of peroxidase (POD) gradually increased, activities of catalase (CAT) were increased first and decreased afterwards.It may be suggested that injury effects of TCB stress on germinated soybean hypocotyls be achieved by excessive accumulation of active associated with the degradation of the active oxygen scavenging enzyme system.
Abstract Organo-clay sorbents were prepared by treating montmorillonite with four different quaternary ammonium compounds. The sorbents were then evaluated for the ability to remove a lower molecular weight hydrophobic organic, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB), from water in the presence of larger, more hydrophilic organics such as tannic acid. Removal of each sorbate species was characterized separately, then the organo-clays' removal of TCB was assessed in the presence of the tannic acid. The quaternary ammonium compounds used were tetramethylammonium chloride (TMA), hexadecyltrimethylammonium bromide (HDTMA), hexadecylbenzyldimethylammonium chloride (HDBDMA), and dioctodecyldimethylammonium bromide (DDDMA). The adsorption isotherms of tannic acid onto the organo-clays were all nonlinear; the TMA-modified clay led to unfavorable curvature, while the long-chain surfactants all produced favorable curvature. The ability of the organo-clays to remove tannic acid increased in the order TMA
Summary For (norbornene ethylene) copolymers with a preferably alternating structure two methods for the determination of chemical composition were tested: the differential refractometry (DR) and the differential scanning calorimetry (DSC). It was found, that the refractive index increments measured by DR in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene can be calculated by adding the refractive index increments of the homopolymers with regard to the composition of the copolymers. This was proved by comparing with results obtained by IH-N~-measurements. The temperatures of the glass transition determined by DSC yield a straight line correlation to the chemical composition. Errors of both methods due to the influence of molecular masses are negligible and of significance only in the range of low molecular masses.
The gas-liquid chromatographic (GLC) method of measuring the activity coefficient of the solute in a binary system has been extended from infinite dilution to the finite concentration range. An equation is presented relating the retention volume of the injected solute sample to the equilibrium solute concentration present in the column. This relation permits determination of the activity coefficient of the solute. Based on the experimental results obtained from the study of the two binary systems, benzene in diethylene glycol at 50°, 70°, and 90°C. and n-hexane in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene at 30°C., the activity coefficients of the solute measured by the GLC method were found to agree within about ±5% with those obtained by the static equilibrium method.
Allylic nitro compounds 1a–d undergo [2,3]-sigmatropic rearrangement in refluxing 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, to afford rearranged alcohols 3a–d and carbonyl compounds 4a–d; the heating, under the same conditions, of a mixture of nitroalkenes 7a–c, propargyl alcohols or amine 8 and ButOK promotes a one-pot formation of allylic alcohols 3a–c.
Abstract Excess volume (VE), excess isentropic compressibility (κsE), viscosity deviation (8η) and excess Gibbs energy of activation of viscous flow (G*E) for binary mixtures of 3-chloroaniline (CA) with 1,2-dichlorobenzene (1,2-DCB), 1,3-dichlorobenzene (1,3-DCB) and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) at selected compositions are determined from the measured values of densities, speeds of sound, and viscosities of pure components and their mixtures at (T) of 303.15–318.15 K, at atmospheric pressure of 0.1 MPa. The excess volume (VE), excess isentropic compressibility (κsE), viscosity deviation (8η) and excess Gibbs energy of activation of viscous flow (G*E) have been analyzed in terms of interactions arising due to structural effect, charge–transfer complexes and dipole–dipole interaction between unlike molecules from the experimental data. Excess properties are correlated by the Redlich–Kister equation. The partial molar volumes ( V m , 1 , V m , 2 ), partial molar isentropic compressibilities ( K s , m , 1 , K s , m , 2 ), excess partial molar volumes ( V m , 1 E and V m , 2 E ) and excess partial molar isentropic compressibilities ( K s , m , 1 E and K s , m , 2 E ) over whole composition range; partial molar volumes ( V m , 1 ° and V m , 2 ° ), partial molar isentropic compressibilities ( K s , m , 1 ° and K s , m , 2 ° ), excess partial molar volumes ( V m , 1 ° E and V m , 2 ° E ) and excess partial molar isentropic compressibilities ( K s , m , 1 ° E and K s , m , 2 ° E ) of the components at infinite dilution have also been calculated. The VE results have been analyzed in the light Prigogine–Flory–Patterson theory. An analysis of each of the three contributions viz. interactional, free volume and P* to VE shows that interactional contribution is positive for all binary systems. The free volume effect and P* contribution are negative for all mixtures. The variations of these parameters with composition and temperature have been discussed in terms of intermolecular interactions prevailing in these mixtures.
The molecular and crystal structures of complexes [Cu2(HL)2(CH3OH)2](BF4)2 ∙ C6H3Cl3 (I), [Cu2(HL)2(H2O)2](1,4-O2CС6Н4CO2) (II), and [Cu2(HL)2(H2O)2](4,4’-O2CС6Н4С6Н4CO2) (III) (H2L is 4,4’-[2-(3-hydroxyiminobutyl)imino]biphenyl, C6H3Cl3 is 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene) are determined by X-ray diffraction analyses. The crystalline lattices of complexes I and II contain discrete binuclear cations Cu2(HL) 2 2+ , whereas the crystalline lattice of compound III contains both discrete cations Cu2(HL) 2 2+ and polymer chains [Cu2(HL) 2 2+ ]n. In compounds I–III, the crystalline lattice units are joined by hydrogen bonds. The analysis of the temperature dependence of the magnetic susceptibility shows that the magnetic properties of compound III are determined only by antiferromagnetic interactions of the Cu2+ ions within the cations Cu2(HL) 2 2+
Abstract We investigated the effectiveness of different inoculation approaches in enhancing the mineralization of [U-14C] labeled 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) in soil. Inoculation was conducted with a soil-borne 1,2,4-TCB mineralizing microbial community (MC) as well as the Bordetella sp. strain F2 originally isolated from this community as the key degrader organism (IS). Both were applied either via liquid medium (LM) or attached on clay particles (CP). Fluorescence in-situ hybridization in combination with 14C-1,2,4-TCB mineralization measurements as well as measurements of 14C-residues in soil were used to investigate the bioaugmentation efficiency of the different approaches. Bordetella sp. cell numbers increased about 2–5 times during the incubation process, indicating that the bacteria could survive and develop in the new soil habitat. While the native soil showed negligible 1,2,4-TCB mineralization rates, soil inoculated with the MC attached on CP showed the highest 1,2,4-TCB mineralization rate per Bordetella cell, whereas the other inoculum approaches showed an increased but lower contaminant mineralization. Additionally, the MC-CP approach showed the highest cumulative 1,2,4-TCB mineralization as well as the highest formation of bound 14C-residues which is most likely equivalent to 14C incorporated into the microbial biomass. Thus, our results allow the conclusion that the application of a specific microbe-clay-particle-complex is the most promising approach for an accelerated in-situ mineralization of chemicals in agricultural soils.
The use of a single compound as the agent in modifying the apparent relative volatility in extractive distillation is well known. In the separation of ethylbenzene from para- and meta-xylenes by extractive distillation, it was found that mixtures containing from two to four components were more effective than any known single compound. Hundreds of combinations of extractive agents were investigated in vapor-liquid equilibrium stills, and from these, twenty-seven different combinations of chlorinated organic compounds showed merit. The relative volatility of ethylbenzene to p-xylene is 1.06 and to m-xylene 1.08. The promising combinations were investigated in three glass perforated plate extractive distillation columns containing twelve, fifteen and nineteen theoretical plates, respectively. Of the twenty-seven different extractive agents tested in the columns, sixteen yielded a relative volatility greater than 1.20. The best one, a mixture of pentachlorophenol, benzene hexachloride and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, gave a relative volatility of 1.27. Other combinations approaching this relative volatility are pentachlorophenol, benzene hexachloride and 2,4-dichlorotoluene giving 1.25 and polychlorobenzene, pentachlorophenol, benzene hexachloride and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene giving 1.26, when used in the ratio of two parts of extractive agent to one part of ethylbenzene-xylene mixture. All the extractive agents boil sufficiently above xylene to make their recovery by distillation easy and complete. Life studies showed no excessive decomposition of any of them while in use.
The boiler exit flue gas of a municipal waste combustor was sampled to evaluate an online monitoring system for chlorobenzene congeners as indicators of polychlorinated dibenzodioxin and dibenzofuran (PCDD/PCDF) concentrations. Continuous measurements of chlorobenzene congeners using gas chromatography coupled to a resonance-enhanced multiphoton ionization - time-of-flight mass spectrometry (GC-REMPI-TOFMS) system were compared over 5-min periods with conventional sampling methods for PCDD/PCDF. Three pairs of values were taken every hour over a period of three days to characterize the combustor's response to transient operating conditions (shutdowns and startups). Isolation of specific chlorobenzene congeners from other same-mass compounds was accomplished by using a GC column separator ahead of the REMPI-TOFMS. The 50-fold variation of PCDD/PCDF concentration was paralleled by similar changes in monitored compounds of 1,4-dichlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, 1,2,3-trichlorobenzene, and 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene. A correlation of R = 0.85 and 0.89 was established between 40 pairs of simultaneous 5-min GC-REMPI-TOFMS measurements of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and 5 min conventional sampling and analysis for the TEQ and Total measures of PCDD/PCDF, respectively. The GC-REMPI-TOFMS system can be used to provide frequent measures of correlative PCDD/PCDF concentration thereby allowing for an understanding of measures to minimize PCDD/PCDF formation and develop operational feedback to limit emissions.
BackgroundBioremediation offers a promising pollution treatment method in the reduction and elimination of man-made compounds in the environment. Computational tools to predict novel biodegradation pathways for pollutants allow one to explore the capabilities of microorganisms in cleaning up the environment. However, given the wealth of novel pathways obtained using these prediction methods, it is necessary to evaluate their relative feasibility, particularly within the context of the cellular environment.ResultsWe have utilized a computational framework called BNICE to generate novel biodegradation routes for 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) and incorporated the pathways into a metabolic model for Pseudomonas putida. We studied the cellular feasibility of the pathways by applying metabolic flux analysis (MFA) and thermodynamic constraints. We found that the novel pathways generated by BNICE enabled the cell to produce more biomass than the known pathway. Evaluation of the flux distribution profiles revealed that several properties influenced biomass production: 1) reducing power required, 2) reactions required to generate biomass precursors, 3) oxygen utilization, and 4) thermodynamic topology of the pathway. Based on pathway analysis, MFA, and thermodynamic properties, we identified several promising pathways that can be engineered into a host organism to accomplish bioremediation.ConclusionsThis work was aimed at understanding how novel biodegradation pathways influence the existing metabolism of a host organism. We have identified attractive targets for metabolic engineers interested in constructing a microorganism that can be used for bioremediation. Through this work, computational tools are shown to be useful in the design and evaluation of novel xenobiotic biodegradation pathways, identifying cellularly feasible degradation routes.
Abstract Second-order rate constants for the Diels-Alder reaction of 90 aromatic hydrocarbons with maleic anhydride, measured spectrophotometrically at 91.5° in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, are correlated with various reactivity indices, namely Herndon's structure count ratios, second-order perturbation energies, Brown's paralocalization energies, Hess-Schaad resonance energy differences and Polansky indices. Apart from the latter theory, all methods yield satisfactory correlations, with the Hess-Schaad theory being marginally better. An explanation is given why the Hess-Schaad theory is superior to para-localization theory although both are based on Huckel π-electron energies. The observed regioselectivity is correctly accounted for by all except Polansky's theory which yields incorrect results for certain phenes and starphenes.
Abstract A home-made analytical instrument based on thermal desorption gas chromatography coupled to resonance enhanced multiphoton ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (TD-GC-REMPI-TOFMS) was applied for atline measurement of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene for the prediction of polychlorinated dibenzodioxin and dibenzofuran (PCDD/F) concentrations in the stack gas of a municipal solid waste incinerator (400 ton/day). Conventional high resolution gas chromatography/high resolution mass spectroscopy (HRGC/HRMS) measurements for the determination of PCDD/F concentrations were performed to compare with TD-GC-REMPI-TOFMS measurements. 1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene correlated with I-TEQ at r = 0.867, 0.953 and 0.944 in unstable, stable and integrated conditions. The correlation was independent of the facility operating conditions observed in this study. Using a linear model to predict I-TEQ by 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene over the test, the average of the relative difference between predicted and measured I-TEQ was 18.9%. 1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene measured by TD-GC-REMPI-TOFMS can be used as a robust indicator of I-TEQ in stack gas.
Background: Bioremediation offers a promising pollution treatment method in the reduction and elimination of man-made compounds in the environment. Computational tools to predict novel biodegradation pathways for pollutants allow one to explore the capabilities of microorganisms in cleaning up the environment. However, given the wealth of novel pathways obtained using these prediction methods, it is necessary to evaluate their relative feasibility, particularly within the context of the cellular environment. Results: We have utilized a computational framework called BNICE to generate novel biodegradation routes for 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) and incorporated the pathways into a metabolic model for Pseudomonas putida. We studied the cellular feasibility of the pathways by applying metabolic flux analysis (MFA) and thermodynamic constraints. We found that the novel pathways generated by BNICE enabled the cell to produce more biomass than the known pathway. Evaluation of the flux distribution profiles revealed that several properties influenced biomass production: 1) reducing power required, 2) reactions required to generate biomass precursors, 3) oxygen utilization, and 4) thermodynamic topology of the pathway. Based on pathway analysis, MFA, and thermodynamic properties, we identified several promising pathways that can be engineered into a host organism to accomplish bioremediation.
Abstract Experiments were carried out concerning competition effects in slow desorption. Excess lab-added 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) decreased the slowly desorbing amounts of aged in situ polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and chlorobenzenes in sediment from Lake Ketelmeer (KM), The Netherlands, after 14 d of TCB-sediment contact time (factor of l.2–2.7). Another experiment showed that the presence of large quantities of in situ oil (15 g/kg) and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs; l.5 g/kg) strongly inhibited the formation of slowly desorbing amounts of lab-added pentachlorobenzene, PCB-30 and PCB-65. These results imply that (i) freshly sorbed contaminants can influence the desorption behavior of aged contaminants within weeks, and (ii) PAH, oil, PCBs and chlorobenzenes show competition for the same slow sorption sites in sediment. So, the occurrence of competitive effects on slow desorption indicates that the number of slow sorption sites is limited. This is in accordance with the recent finding that part of the sorption of organic compounds in soils and sediments occurs in a nonlinear way, the slowly desorbing fractions showing this nonlinear sorption.
Abstract Density (ρ) and speed of sound (u) data have been measured at temperatures 303.15 and 313.15 K and at atmospheric pressure for five binary mixtures of aniline with chlorobenzene, bromobenzene, 1,2-dichlorobenzene, 1,3-dichlorobenzene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene over the entire composition range. Experimental density and speed of sound data have been used to calculate the excess volumes (VE), isentropic compressibilities (κs) and excess isentropic compressibilities (κsE) of studied mixtures. The calculated VE data were correlated with Redlich–Kister and Hwang polynomial equations. The experimental speed of sound data were analyzed in terms of Schaaff's collision factor theory (CFT) and Jacobson's free length theory (FLT). Results, obtained by measurements as well as calculations, were discussed in terms of intermolecular interactions between component molecules.
The synthesis of shape-persistent macrocycles based on the phenyl-ethynyl backbone containing various extraannular alkyl side chains is described. Although compound solubility increases with increasing size of the side groups, decreasing the solvent polarity induces aggregation of the rings by nonspecific interactions. This was investigated by proton NMR spectroscopy. The magnitude of aggregation can be varied by using solvent mixtures of different hexane content, supporting the model of a solvophobic effect. From 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene solution the macrocycle 1c adsorbs at the surface of highly oriented pyrolitic graphite (HOPG). The two-dimensional order of the structure was investigated by scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) revealing the formation of a two-dimensional lattice of p12mm symmetry with lattice parameters A = 3.6 nm, B = 5.7 nm, and Γ = 74°.
The toxicity 24 h IC_(50) of 18 chlorobenzenes to the bacteria in the Yangtze River was determined by using the bacteria growth inhibition test,and the range of-lg IC_(50) was from 3.65 to 4.32,in which the least toxic compound was chlorobenzene and the most toxic compound was 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene.The quantitative structure-activity relationship(QSAR) models were developed for the toxicity by using the molecular connectivity index method.The toxicity of chlorobenzenes to the river bacteria is related to the kinds,amount and position of the substituents in benzene ring.The valence molecular connectivity index()~0Х~V and()~7X_(CH)~V can well describe the toxicity of the compounds under study.The equation-lg IC_(50)=(0.839())~0X~V-25.372()~7X_(CH)~V+0.802 is stable enough to predict the toxicity, and the correlation relationship between the predicted and observed toxicity is up to 0.948.
A systematic study of alkyne metathesis catalyzed by trialkoxymolybdenum(VI) alkylidyne complexes is reported, in which substrate functional groups, alkynyl substituents, and catalyst ligands are varied. Sterically hindered trisamidomolybdenum(VI) propylidyne complex 5 was prepared conveniently through a previously communicated reductive recycle strategy. Alcoholysis of 5 with various phenols/alcohols provides a set of active catalysts for alkyne metathesis at room temperature, among which the catalyst with p-nitrophenol as ligand shows the highest catalytic activity and is compatible with a variety of functional groups and solvents. A key finding that enabled the use of highly active molybdenum(VI) catalysts is replacement of the commonly used propynyl substituents on the starting alkyne substrates with butynyl groups. Under reduced pressure using 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene as an involatile solvent, the alkyne metathesis of butynyl substituted compounds proceeds well at 30 degrees C providing high yields (83%-97%) of dimers. Rationalization of the special role played by butynyl substrates is discussed.
The natural biotic capacity of soils to degrade gamma-hexachlorocyclohexane (gamma-HCH, lindane) was estimated using an enrichment technique based on the ability of soil bacteria to develop on synthetic media and degrade the xenobiotic compound, used as the sole source of carbon and energy. Bacterial inocula from relatively highly contaminated soils (from wood treatment factories) were found to promote efficiently the degradation of gamma-HCH, which subsequently permitted isolation of a competent gamma-HCH-degrading microorganism. The decrease of gamma-HCH concurrently with the release of chloride ions and the production of CO2 demonstrated the complete mineralization of gamma-HCH mediated by the isolate. This was confirmed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry analyses showing that degradation subproducts of gamma-HCH included an unidentified tetrachlorinated compound and subsequently 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and 2,5-dichlorophenol. The two linA- and linB-like genes coding, respectively, for a gamma-HCH dehydrochlorinase and a dehalogenase were characterized by using a PCR strategy based on sequence homologies with previously published sequences from Sphingomonas paucimobilis UT26. Nucleotide sequence analysis of the linA-like region revealed the presence of a 472-bp open reading frame exhibiting high homology with the linA gene from S. paucimobilis, while a preliminary study also indicated strong homology among the two linB genes. All enzymes involved in the gamma-HCH degradative pathway appear to be extracellular and encoded by genes located on the chromosome, although numerous cryptic plasmids have been detected.
One sentence summary: A Dehalococcoides-dominated chloroethene-degrading enrichment culture harboured untapped dehalogenation potential against 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene causing the emergence of an undetected native Dehalobacter population.
Chlorobenzenes are soil and groundwater pollutants of concern that can be reductively dehalogenated by organohalide-respiring bacteria from the genera Dehalococcoides and Dehalobacter. The bioaugmentation culture KB-1 R harbours Dehalococcoides mccartyi spp. that reductively dehalogenate trichloroethene to ethene. It contains more than 30 reductive dehalogenase genes; some of them are highly similar to genes found in the chlorobenzene-respiring Dehalococcoides mccartyi strain CBDB1. We explored the chlorobenzene dehalogenation capability of the KB-1 enrichment culture using 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB). We achieved adaptation of KB-1 to 1,2,4-TCB that is dehalogenated to a mixture of dichlorobenzenes, and subsequently to monochlorobenzene and benzene. Surprisingly, a native Dehalobacter population, and not a Dehalococcoides population, couples the dechlorination of 1,2,4-TCB to growth achieving an average yield of 1.1 ± 0.6 × 10 13 cells per mole of Cl − released. Interestingly, the dechlorination of 1,2,4-TCB occurs alongside the complete dechlorination of trichloroethene to ethene in cultures fed both electron acceptors. Dehalobacter was not previously identified as a major player in KB-1, but its ecological niche was favoured by the introduction of 1,2,4-TCB. Based on 16S rRNA phylogeny, Dehalobacter populations seem to cluster into specialised clades, and are likely undergoing substrate specialisation as a strategy to reduce competition for electron acceptors.
Thermolysis of arene/H2 mixtures at atmospheric pressure near 1 000 K leads to desubstitution via attack of hydrogen atoms: (Ar–X + H˙→ ArH). Rates of dechlorination (and, where appropriate, dehydroxylation and defluorination) have been examined for a variety of Chlorobenzene derivatives, including o,m,p-dichlorobenzenes, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, o-,m-chlorofluorobenzenes, o-,m-,p-chlorophenols, and 2,4-dichlorophenol. Employing competitive studies and computer analysis of product distributions, the rates of desubstitution have been determined relative to (1), (C6H5Cl + H˙→ C6H6). Observed per-site rate constants for dechlorination of the substrates were 0.66–1.44 times that of C6H5Cl. Electron-withdrawing substituents retard the reaction rate, and electron-donating groups lead to rate enhancement. Substituent effects on dehydroxylation were found to be similar; rates of defluorination were less affected by ring substituents. The results are discussed in terms of the reaction mechanisms.
Several soil and subsoil samples from a soil accumulation and from the aquifer of a site of a former pesticide production factory, which were contaminated with chlorinated benzenes (CB), chlorinated phenols (CP) and hexachlorocyclohexanes (HCH) were investigated chemically for their content of individual pollutants, and microbiologically for the presence and the activity of different microorganisms. The samples of the soil accumulation (until 2 m depth) showed a higher content of chlorinated organic compounds (> 1000 mg extractable halogenated organic substances (EOX) kg−1 soil; ratio CB:HCH:CP = 88:10:2), than the samples from the aquifer ( 50%) among the HCH. The major pollutant of samples from the aquifer was 1,2,4-tricholorobenzene (> 50% of CB). Among the HCH, δ-HCH was predominant, with only three exceptions. Degradation experiments with mixed bacterial cultures showed the aerobic degradation of monochlorobenzene, 1,3- and 1,4-dichlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, 1,2,3,4- and 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene 1,2,3-tricholorobenzene only in combination with 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, and α-HCH, whereas 1,2-dichlorobenzene, 1,3,5-trichlorobenzene, β-HCH, 4-chlorophenol, and 2,4,5-trichlorophenol were not significantly transformed. It should be stressed that the compounds which were biodegraded in the laboratory were present in relatively high concentrations in situ, indicating limiting factors in their in situ degradation. Soil and subsoil microorganisms were present in numbers up to 105 colony forming units (CFU) g−1 soil. In soil samples, Gram-positive bacteria (coryneforms and Bacillus spp.) were dominant, mainly in the upper layers, but in the subsoil samples of the aquifer the majority of isolates were Gram-negative and could be identified as Pseudomonas stutzeri, Ps. fluorescens, Aeromonas sp. and Acinetobacter sp. The degradation potential observed under laboratory conditions should be studied further under in situ conditions to assess the success of a bioremediation.
Black carbon (BC) plays a potentially important role in the availability of pollutants in soils and sediments. Recent evidence points to the possible attenuation of the high surface activity of raw BC by natural substances. We studied the effects of soil humic (HA) and fulvic (FA) acids on the surface properties and affinity for organic compounds of synthesized wood charcoal. Char powder suspended in a solution of HA or FA was loaded with organic matter via adsorption, evaporation of the water, or coflocculation with Al3+. These treatments were chosen to simulate initial and more advanced stages of environmental exposure. Coevaporation dramatically reduced the N2 Brunauer−Emmett−Teller total surface area of the char, but only moderately the CO2 cumulative surface area up to 1.4 nm. Organic compound adsorption was suppressed in proportion to molecular size, benzene < naphthalene < phenanthrene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene ≪ phenanthrene, for humics in the adsorbed and coflocculated states, respectively. Humi...
PEN (99%, anhydrous) and PQ (99%, anhydrous) were purchased from Aldrich Chem. Co. and used without any further purification. The single PEN and PQ crystals were grown through both vacuum sublimation and solution growth in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (99%, anhydrous, Aldrich). For the vapor-phase growth, a pyrex sublimator that was equipped with a heating mantle containing seasand was used as the reactor. Then 30 mg samples of PEN and PQ were placed in each reactor and then the sample containing reactors were heated to 250 o C. The samples were treated at a pressure of about 10 -2 torr for 3 h, and the crystal growth was continued. Thin dark blue PEN plates (PEN-V) and light yellow PQ plates (PQ-V) grew from the wall to the center of the reactors. The solution-phase single PEN and PQ crystals were obtained from the saturated solutions of PEN in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene in N2 for PEN and air for PQ at 180 o C. Upon slow cooling to room temperature, orange needlelike PQ crystals (PQ-S) were obtained, whereas only microcrystals were observed for PEN.
Trichloroethylene (TCE) has been widely used primarily as degreasing solvent by industry, since the 1900s [1] . TCE was considered as one of the most frequently detected organic contaminants in groundwater [2, 3] . Various methods have been developed for the determination of TCE including gas OPEN ACCESS chromatography (GC) coupled with either electron capture detectors (ECD) [4] [5] [6] , mass spectrometers (MS) [7] [8] [9] [10] , or flame ionization detectors (FID) [11] . Traditional sample preparation methods for TCE such as liquid-liquid extraction and solid phase extraction are labor-intensive and time-consuming [5] . Solid-phase microextraction (SPME) is suitable for the extraction of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and has been introduced for the analysis of TCE in recent years [6, 7, [9] [10] [11] . Solid phase microextraction was devised by Pawliszyn and co-workers in 1989 [12] and has been widely used for food, environmental, and bioanalytical applications [13] . As a volatile compound, TCE is generally extracted from the sample headspace with faster extraction times and improved selectivity [14] . The condensed phase, the headspace gas phase, and the SPME polymer film are involved in a regular headspace SPME process and the diffusion of analytes happens across two interfaces, the condensed/gas interface and the gas/polymer interface [15] . The extraction efficiency is limited by mass transfer between the two interfaces, especially between the condensed/gas interface [15] . Once the extraction conditions; such as extraction temperature, extraction time, sample agitation, pH, ionic strength, volume, etc.; for an analyte are optimized, it is difficult to improve the extraction efficiency further. A widely accepted standard by researchers for SPME method development is that the amount of organic solvents in the sample matrix should be kept to a minimum [16] . However, it is not always true. In our study, we found by introducing a microliter quantity of organic solvent that the extraction efficiency of SPME could be significantly improved. TCE in water was extracted by the liquid-liquid microextraction assisted headspace SPME (LLME-SPME) and was determined with a portable GC/MS instrument. A similar success for the improvement on the extraction efficiency was also found for the extraction of toluene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) from water by LLME-SPME.
The aqueous solubilities of chlorobenzene, 1,2- and 1,3-dichlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, toluene, 2-, 3-, and 4-chlorotoluene, 2,4- and 2,6-dichlorotoluene, 2,4,5-trichlorotoluene, and pentachlorotoluene are reported over the temperature range (5−45) °C.
Abstract Beef and pork fat, corn, peanut, rapeseed and paraffin oils, as well as vegetable shortening were used to investigate their suitability as fortification media for environmental chemicals in the evaluation of the sweep co-distillation technique. The animal fats produced considerable gas chromatographic background interference, while the oils were partly carried over during the sweep co-distillation process, except for rapeseed and peanut oil. Residue free rapeseed oil was fortified with 26 environmental chemicals in several groups at 20 and 200 ng/g of oil. Recoveries for most compounds were > 80% with a coefficient of variation of ≤ 10. At the 20ppb fortification level, recoveries for Aroclor 1260, Mirex and pentachlorobenzene were only 70–80%. A similar low recovery was observed for p, p'-DDT, Mirex, hexachloro-1,3-butadiene, while at the 200ppb level, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene was only 33% recovered. The sweep co-distillation technique was further evaluated by using rendered human fat and the same...
Ene reaction of allylbenzene and N-methylmaleimide was studied in water and ethanol solvents at subcritical temperatures (220–310 °C). Subcritical water was inappropriate for this reaction, because it rapidly hydrolyzed N-methylmaleimide. Subcritical ethanol was found to be a very promising solvent. The highest ene product yield in ethanol reached 40% in 480 min, and the highest trans-selectivity was 92%. The yields in pure ethanol were comparable to those in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene with 10% hydroquinone added as a polymerization inhibitor. Addition of hydroquinone had a negligible effect on the yield in ethanol, suggesting that the solvent ethanol itself acts as an inhibitor of the side reactions. It is also expected that the polar environment and the high vapor pressure of ethanol favored pericyclic association between the apolar starting compounds.
Abstract Bioremediation of anthropogenic organic pollutants in cold climates is often limited by lower microbial or enzyme activity induced by low temperature. The present study addressed this issue through the degradation of γ-hexachlorocyclohexane (γ-HCH) by three Sphingobium strains ( S. indicum B90A, S. japonicum UT26 and S. francense Sp+) under low temperature (4 °C). After 5 days incubation at 4 °C, 79.7% and 43.8% of 5 and 25 mg L −1 of γ-HCH added were degraded, respectively by the inoculation of 1.75 × 10 7 cells mL −1 of S. indicum B90A. An increase in inoculum concentration to 1.72 × 10 8 cells mL −1 significantly increased the degradation to 98.1 ± 1.7% of 5 mg L −1 within 24 h. Further, S. indicum B90A and S. japonicum UT26 can rapidly degrade γ-HCH at 4 °C, while the degradation capability of S. francense Sp+ is relatively low. At 4 °C, γ-HCH is transformed to extremely low amounts of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) and 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP) by S. indicum B90A, but most of γ-HCH were transformed to 2,5-Dichloro-2,5-cyclohexadiene-1,4-diol (2,5-DDOL) by S. japonicum UT26. These results revealed that haloalkane dehalogenases in some Sphingobium species are very active at temperature as low as 4 °C and S. indicum B90A might be a good candidate for developing novel bioremediation techniques for cold regions to decontaminate γ-HCH from soils/waters.
Remediation of the sites contaminated with organic contaminants, such as chlorobenzenes, remains a challenging issue. Electroosmotic flushing can be a promising approach which is based on mechanism of electrokinetic remediation for removal of organic contaminants from fluids in low-permeability soil. To select an optimum surfactant that can effectively enhance electroosmotic flushing, three common surfactants, Triton X-100 (EK2), Tween 80 (EK3), and a mixture of sodium dodecyl sulfate and Triton X-100 (EK4) buffered with Na2 HPO4 /NaH2 PO4 solution, were tested. The efficiency of each kind of surfactant was evaluated using a three-dimensional box filled with a clayey soil spiked with 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, and compared with a test (EK1) without surfactant. The results demonstrated that the buffer solutions efficiently neutralized H+ and OH- produced by electrolysis. EK3 with Tween 80 added in the flushing solution reached the highest electroosmotic permeability of 10-4 cm2 /v/s and achieved a notably high cumulative electroosmotic flow (EOF) of 5067 mL within 6 d, which was 6.3, 3.4, and 4.2 times higher than that in EK1, EK2, and EK4, respectively. There were 420 mL more cumulative EOF obtained after 50 h of electrical application in EK4 than in EK2. The introduction of nonreactive ions can increase the current, thereby benefiting the EOF. Both the higher pH caused by the buffer and the application of nonionic surfactants can make the zeta potential more negative, thereby increasing the EOF. Tween 80 can be recommended as the best flushing solution for removing organic contaminants from sites when electrokinetic remediation is applied.
A nanoporous carbon material was synthesized by heating potassium citrate without using a template or an activating agent. It is shown to represent a viable coating for use in solid-phase microextraction. The material is thermally stable and mainly consists of amorphous sheets of sp2-bonded carbon. It has an extensive pore structure and a surface area as large as 1236 m2·g-1. The nanoporous carbon was deposited on the surface of steel wires, and the resulting fibers were applied to the extraction of trace levels of chlorobenzenes in water samples. Following extraction by absorbing, the chlorobenzenes were quantified by gas chromatograph in combination with electron capture detection. Extraction temperature and time, and desorption temperature were optimized (80 °C, 10 min and 310 °C). Under optimized conditions, the calibration plots are linear in the following concentration ranges: 2.5 to 100 ng·L-1 (pentachlorobenzene), 5 to 200 ng·L-1 (1,2,3,4-tetrachlorobenzene), 10 to 100 ng·L-1 (hexachlorobenzene) and 10 to 500 ng·L-1 (1,2,3-trichlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, 1,3,5-trichlorobenzene). Other figures of merit include (a) high enrichment factors (8324 to 9920), (b) low limits of detection (0.10-1.03 ng·L-1), and (c) good reproducibility (relative standard deviations including intra-day and inter-day with a single fiber and fiber-to-fiber were below 6.4% at a mixed concentration level of 2.5, 5, and 10 ng·L-1 respectively in ultra-water). This method was successfully applied to the determination of chlorobenzenes in (spiked) lake waters where it gave recoveries between 82.3% and 104.5%. Graphical abstract A nanoporous carbon material was synthesized by heating potassium citrate without using a template or an activating agent and used as a viable coating of solid-phase microextraction for chlorobenzenes.
STM measurements. The gold surfaces were flamed annealed before endohedral fullerenes were deposited, using the drop casting, technique from solution in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) at very low concentration (10 -7 -10 -8 M). We used mechanically cut gold tips as STM probes. In order to measure the thermopower of molecular junctions, we modified our homebuilt STM 9 setup by adding a surface mount 1 kΩ resistor that acts as a heater for the tip holder 9 , while the substrate was kept at room temperature. Two thermocouples connected to the tip holder and to the substrate surface were used to monitor the resulting temperature difference. Measurements were performed at a temperature difference of 40 K and at ambient conditions. We found that the temperature stabilizes in about 15-30 minutes. The error in the determination of the thermopower is of about 0.6 µV/K. Further details are provided in the Supplementary Information.
In order to assess the potential of commercial humic products in environmental remediation, their binding to heptachlor, hexachlorobenzene, hexachloroethane, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and n-hexane was measured. The binding was similar in tests with two colloidal-phase humic products prepared from humalite (naturally occurring, oxidized organic deposits found adjacent to coal) from Alberta, Canada (Luscar Ltd.). There were minor or negligible changes in binding strength for these two products over the full range of aqueous concentrations tested (1.67 to 33.4 g organic C/L), and for Aldrich humic acid. Aldrich humic acid was a stronger binder of the hydrophobic organic compounds than the two Luscar humic products, by factors of approximately 3 to 7. The binding of hydrophobic organics to the two Luscar humic products was similar in strength to that predicted for humic substances that occur in natural aquatic environments. Our binding data suggest that the use of concentrated Luscar humic products as colloidal-phase flushing agents would increase the aqueous concentrations of some hydrophobic organic contaminants in soils or aquifers by up to several hundred fold.
A novel polycarbazole coating was prepared by cyclic voltammetry on a platinum wire. The solution for electropolymerization contained N,N-dimethylformamide, propylene carbonate (v/v = 1:9), 0.10 M carbazole and 0.10 M tetrabutylammonium perchlorate; the cyclic scan potential range was 0.8–2.0 V (versus Ag/AgCl). The resulting polycarbazole coating showed a porous structure and had a large specific surface area. When it was used for the headspace solid-phase microextraction of chlorobenzenes (i.e. chlorobenzene, 2-chlorotoluene, 1,2-dichlorobenzene, 1,3-dichlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene) followed by GC analysis, it presented excellent analytical performance. Under the optimized conditions the linear ranges were 0.25–250 μg/L with correlation coefficients >0.985, and the low detection limits were 15–61 ng/L (S/N = 3) for different chlorobenzenes. The RSDs were 2.4–4.9% for five successive measurements with a single fiber, and for fiber-to-fiber they were 6.3–13.1% (n = 5). Furthermore, the polycarbazole coating displayed good thermal stability (>350°C) and durability (more than 250 times). The proposed method was successfully applied to the extraction and determination of chlorobenzenes in waste water and lake water, and the recoveries for standards added were 86–114% for different analytes.
Stable carbon isotope fractionation is a valuable tool for monitoring natural attenuation and to establish the fate of groundwater contaminants. In this study, we measured carbon isotope fractionation during aerobic and anaerobic degradation of two chlorinated benzenes: monochlorobenzene (MCB) and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB). MCB isotope fractionation was measured in anaerobic methanogenic microcosms, while 1,2,4-TCB isotope experiments were carried out in both aerobic and anaerobic microcosms. Large isotope fractionation was observed in both the anaerobic microcosm experiments. Enrichment factors (ε) for anaerobic reductive dechlorination of MCB and 1,2,4-TCB were -5.0‰ ± 0.2‰ and -3.0‰ ± 0.4‰, respectively. In contrast, no significant isotope fractionation was found during aerobic microbial degradation of 1,2,4-TCB. The cleavage of a C-Cl σ bond occurs during anaerobic reductive dechlorination of MCB and 1,2,4-TCB, while no σ bond cleavage is involved during aerobic degradation via dioxygenase. The difference in isotope fractionation for aerobic versus anaerobic biodegradation of MCB and 1,2,4-TCB can be explained by the difference in the initial step of aerobic versus anaerobic biodegradation pathways.
The reaction of benzoyl peroxide with octaethylporphyrin (1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, 95°, N2) leads to side-chain and meso-substitution products (benzoyloxy-derivatives).
We present here the construction of a self-assembled two-dimensional (2D) porous monolayer bearing a highly polar 2D space to study guest co-adsorption through electrostatic interactions at the liquid/solid interface. For this purpose, a dehydrobenzo[12]annulene (DBA) derivative, DBA-TeEG, having tetraethylene glycol (TeEG) groups at the end of the three alternating alkoxy chains connected by p-phenylene linkers was synthesized. As a reference host molecule, DBA-C10, having nonpolar C10 alkyl chains at three alternating terminals, was employed. As guest molecules, hexagonal phenylene-ethynylene macrocycles (PEMs) attached by triethylene glycol (TEG) ester and hexyl ester groups, PEM-TEG and PEM-C6, respectively, at each vertex of the macrocyclic periphery were used. Scanning tunneling microscopy observations at the 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene/highly oriented pyrolytic graphite interface revealed that PEM-TEG was immobilized in the pores formed by DBA-TeEG at higher probability because of electrostatic interactions such as dipole-dipole and hydrogen bonding interactions between oligoether units of the host and guest, in comparison to PEM-C6 with nonpolar groups. These observations are discussed based on molecular mechanics simulations to investigate the role of the polar functional groups. When a nonpolar host matrix formed by DBA-C10 was used, however, only phase separation and preferential adsorption were observed; virtually no host-guest complexation was discernible. This is ascribed to the strong affinity between the guest molecules which form by themselves densely packed van der Waals networks on the surface.
Polymers containing pyrazole and triazole units in the polymer chain were obtained through the 1,3-dipolar addition reaction of bisnitrilimines generated from tetrazoles with diynes and dinitrile dipolarophiles. The reaction of 2,2′-diphenyl-5,5′-m- and p-phenyleneditetrazole with the dipolarophiles m- and p-diethynylbenzene, terephthalonitrile, tetrafluoroterephthalonitrile, perfluoroglutarylnitrile, and 4,4′-dicyanobiphenyl gave a series of thermally stable polymers of high molecular weight. The polypyrazoles were soluble in acid and in some cases in chlorobenzene or 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and had intrinsic viscosities as high as 1.67, while the polytriazoles were soluble in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and chlorobenzene, but not in acid, and had viscosities ranging up to 0.40. The thermogravimetric analyses of the finely powdered polymers showed breaks near 500°C in air and nitrogen atmospheres.
In order to assess the potential of commercial humic products in environmental remediation, their binding to heptachlor, hexachlorobenzene, hexachloroethane, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and n-hexane was measured. The binding was similar in tests with two colloidal-phase humic products prepared from humalite (naturally occurring, oxidized organic deposits found adjacent to coal) from Alberta, Canada (Luscar Ltd.). There were minor or negligible changes in binding strength for these two products over the full range of aqueous concentrations tested (1.67 to 33.4 g organic C/L), and for Aldrich humic acid. Aldrich humic acid was a stronger binder of the hydrophobic organic compounds than the two Luscar humic products, by factors of approximately 3 to 7. The binding of hydrophobic organics to the two Luscar humic products was similar in strength to that predicted for humic substances that occur in natural aquatic environments. Our binding data suggest that the use of concentrated Luscar humic products as colloidal-phase flushing agents would increase the aqueous concentrations of some hydrophobic organic contaminants in soils or aquifers by up to several hundred fold.
We tested the binding of four chlorinated organic compounds: heptachlor, hexachlorobenzene, hexachloroethane and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, as well as a representative petroleum hydrocarbon, n-hexane. Because of their hydrophobic nature, these five compounds bind strongly to AHPs, and their moderate to high volatility made them suitable for GC analyses using the headspace technique. The four chlorinated compounds are toxic and persistent organic pollutants (POPs) of global concern. Heptachlor and hexachlorobenzene, formerly in wide use as pesticides, are 2 of the 12 POPs targeted to be banned under the international Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants (May 22, 2001 ).
We have developed an oligonucleotide microarray for the detection of biodegradative genes and bacterial diversity and tested it in five contaminated ecosystems. The array has 60-mer oligonucleotide probes comprising 14,327 unique probes derived from 1,057 biodegradative genes and 880 probes representing 110 phylogenetic genes from diverse bacterial communities, and we named it as BiodegPhyloChip. The biodegradative genes are involved in the transformation of 133 chemical pollutants. Validation of the microarray for its sensitivity specificity and quantitation were performed using DNA isolated from well-characterized mixed bacterial cultures also having non-target strains, pure degrader strains, and environmental DNA. Application of the developed array using DNA extracted from five different contaminated sites led to the detection of 186 genes, including 26 genes unique to the individual sites. Hybridization of 16S rRNA probes revealed the presence of bacteria similar to well-characterized genera involved in biodegradation of various pollutants. Genes involved in complete degradation pathways for hexachlorocyclohexane (lin), 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (tcb), naphthalene (nah), phenol (mph), biphenyl (bph), benzene (ben), toluene (tbm), xylene (xyl), phthalate (pht), Salicylate (sal), and resistance to mercury (mer) were detected with highest intensity. The most abundant genes belonged to the enzyme hydroxylases, monooxygenases, and dehydrogenases which were present in all the five samples. Thus, the array developed and validated here shall be useful in assessing not only the biodegradative potential but also the composition of environmentally useful bacteria, simultaneously, from hazardous ecosystems.
Recent studies have shown that cationic surfactants can be used to increase the organic carbon content of aquifer materials, creating enhanced sorbent zones for hydrophobic organic contaminants (HOCs) migrating in groundwater. The coupling of nonionic surfactant-enhanced solubilization of HOCs to the cationic surfactant-enhanced sorption zone concept is examined as a possible groundwater remediation scheme. The partitioning behavior of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) and Igepal CO 730 (CO 730, a nonionic surfactant), both singly and jointly, were determined in batch hexadecyltrimethylammonium (HDTMA, a cationic surfactant) chloride-modified aquifer material/water systems. The apparent CO 730 critical micelle concentration (cmc) was found to decrease by a factor of 17 due to nonideal mixed micelle formation in the presence of low aqueous phase HDTMA concentrations that resulted from exposure to HDTMA-modified aquifer material. A greater portion of CO 730 will be present in the micellar psuedophase (the HOC so...
The maleylacetate reductase from Pseudomonas sp. strain B13 functioning in the modified ortho pathway was purified and digested with trypsin. The polypeptides separated by high-performance liquid chromatography were sequenced. Alignments with the polypeptides predicted from the tfdF and tcbF genes located on plasmids pJP4 of the 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetate-degrading Alcaligenes eutrophus JMP134 and pP51 of the 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene-degrading Pseudomonas sp. strain P51 as well as polypeptides predicted from the tftE gene located on the chromosome of the 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxyacetate-degrading Burkholderia cepacia AC1100 were obtained. In addition, the deduced protein sequence encoded by the nucleotide sequence downstream of clcD on plasmid pAC27 of the 3-chlorobenzoate-degrading Pseudomonas putida AC866 was tested for homology. Significant sequence similarities with the polypeptides encoded by the tfdF, tcbF, and tftE genes as well as the nucleotide sequence downstream of the clcD gene gave evidence that these genes might encode maleylacetate reductases. A NAD-binding motif in a beta alpha beta-element was detected.
A methanogenic microbial consortium capable of reductively dechlorinating 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) was enriched from a mixture of polluted sediments. 1,2,4-TCB was dechlorinated via 1,4-dichlorobenzene (1,4-DCB) to chlorobenzene (CB). Lactate, which was used as an electron donor during the enrichment, was converted via propionate and acetate to methane. Glucose, ethanol, methanol, propionate, acetate, and hydrogen were also suitable electron donors for dechlorination, whereas formate was not. The addition of 5% (wt/vol) sterile Rhine River sand was necessary to maintain the dechlorinating activity of the consortium. The addition of 2-bromoethanesulfonic acid (BrES) inhibited methanogenesis completely but had no effect on the dechlorination of 1,2,4-TCB. The consortium was also able to dechlorinate other chlorinated benzenes via various simultaneous pathways to 1,3,5-TCB, 1,2-DCB, 1,3-DCB, or CB as an end product. The addition of BrES inhibited several of the simultaneously occurring dechlorination pathways of 1,2,3,4- and 1,2,3,5-tetrachlorobenzene and of pentachlorobenzene, which resulted in the formation of CB as the only final product. Hexachlorobenzene and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) were dechlorinated after a lag phase of ca. 15 days, showing a dechlorination pattern that is different from those observed for lower chlorinated benzenes: only chlorines with two adjacent chlorines were removed. The results show that the consortium possesses at least three distinct dechlorination activities toward chlorinated benzenes and PCBs.
Nitroaromatic compounds (NACs) are commonly found as soil contaminants in military training sites and manufacturing facilities, and may adversely affect human and ecosystem health. Exchangeable cation effects on p-nitrocyanobenzene (p-NCB) and 1,4d-initrobenzene (1,4-DNB) sorption by the Webster (fine loamy, mixed, mesic Typic Haplaquoll) soil series A (WA) and B (WB) horizons were determined from batch sorption experiments. Smectite is the most abundant mineral in the horizons of this soil. Soil organic matter (SOM) removal increased p-NCB sorption to the WA and WB horizons by ∼1.5 times, and increased 1,4-DNB sorption to the A and B horizons by ∼1.2 to 2.2 times, respectively. Greater sorption of NACs by whole soils after SOM removal suggests that SOM suppresses p-NCB and 1,4-DNB sorption by soil mineral components. Clay (<2-μm fraction) removal decreased p-NCB sorption to the WA and WB horizons by ∼8 and 11 times, respectively; clay removal decreased 1,4-DNB sorption to the WA and WB horizons by ∼4.8 and 6.7 times, respectively. Nitroaromatic compound sorption to different soil fractions was measured to identify the independent effects of soil components and exchangeable cations on sorption. For this purpose, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) and 1,4-DNB sorption to two organic soils and a soil devoid of smectites, and p-NCB sorption to whole soil and the soil clay-sized fraction were determined. Exchangeable cation type was found to minimally affect sorption of 1,2,4-TCB, p-NCB, and 1,4-DNB by SOM. Sorption of p-NCB to homoionic soil clay-sized fractions was generally greater for clays saturated with monovalent cations than clays saturated with divalent cations. Greater p-NCB sorption followed decreases in cation hydration energy in the order Na + < Li + < < K + < Cs+ and Ca 2+ < Ba 2+ < Mg 2+ . Similar trends were observed for whole-soil samples exchanged with these cations. This indicates that differences in nitroaromatic sorption are due to exchangeable cation effects on the clay mineral fraction.
The anaerobic metabolism of chlorinated benzenes and toluenes was evaluated in soil slurry microcosms under methanogenic conditions. A mixture of hexachlorobenzene, pentachlorobenzene, and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) in soil slurries was biotransformed through sequential reductive dechlorination to chlorobenzene (CB). The metabolic pathway for hexachlorobenzene and pentachlorobenzene decay proceeded via 1,2,3,4-tetrachlorobenzene (TTCB)-->1,2,3-TCB + 1,2,4-TCB-->1,2-dichlorobenzene (DCB) + 1,4-DCB-->CB. In a mineral salts medium, the CB-adapted soil microorganisms dehalogenated individual 1,2,4,5-TTCB, 1,2,3,4-TTCB, 1,2,3-TCB, and 1,2,4-TCB but not 1,2,3,5-TTCB or 1,3,5-TCB. Similarly, a mixture of 2,3,6-trichlorotoluene (TCT), 2,5-dichlorotoluene (DCT), and 3,4-DCT was reductively dechlorinated in soil slurries to predominantly toluene and small amounts of 2-, 3-, and 4-chlorotoluene (CT). Toluene was further degraded. When tested individually in a mineral salts medium, the CT-adapted soil microorganisms dechlorinated several TCT and DCT isomers. Key metabolic routes for TCTs followed: 2,3,6-TCT-->2,5-DCT-->2-CT-->toluene; 2,4,5-TCT-->2,5-DCT + 3,4-DCT-->3-CT + 4-CT-->toluene. Among DCTs tested, 2,4-DCT and 3,4-DCT were dechlorinated via the removal of o- and m-chlorine, respectively, to 4-CT and subsequently to toluene via p-chlorine removal. Likewise, 2,5-DCT was dechlorinated via 2-CT to toluene. Evidently, microorganisms capable of removing o-, m-, and p-chlorines are present in the soil system, as reflected by the dechlorination of different isomers of CBs and CTs to CB and toluene, respectively. These findings help clarify the metabolic fate of chlorinated benzenes and toluenes in anaerobic environments.
Nitroaromatic compounds (NACs) are commonly found as soil contaminants in military training sites and manufacturing facilities, and may adversely affect human and ecosystem health. Exchangeable cation effects on p-nitrocyanobenzene (p-NCB) and 1,4-dinitrobenzene (1,4-DNB) sorption by the Webster (fine loamy, mixed, mesic Typic Haplaquoll) soil series A (WA) and B (WB) horizons were determined from batch sorption experiments. Smectite is the most abundant mineral in the horizons of this soil. Soil organic matter (SOM) removal increased p-NCB sorption to the WA and WB horizons by |1.5 times, and increased 1,4-DNB sorption to the A and B horizons by |1.2 to 2.2 times, respectively. Greater sorption of NACs by whole soils after SOM removal suggests that SOM suppresses p-NCB and 1,4-DNB sorption by soil mineral components. Clay (,2-mm fraction) removal decreased p-NCB sorption to the WA and WB horizons by |8 and 11 times, respectively; clay removal decreased 1,4-DNB sorption to the WA and WB horizons by |4.8 and 6.7 times, respectively. Nitroaromatic compound sorption to different soil fractions was measured to identify the independent effects of soil components and exchangeable cations on sorption. For this purpose, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) and 1,4-DNB sorption to two organic soils and a soil devoid of smectites, and p-NCB sorption to whole soil and the soil clay-sized fraction were determined. Exchangeable cation type was found to minimally affect sorption of 1,2,4-TCB, p-NCB, and 1,4-DNB by SOM. Sorption of p-NCB to homoionic soil clay-sized fractions was generally greater for clays saturated with monovalent cations than clays saturated with divalent cations. Greater p-NCB sorption followed decreases in cation hydration energy in the order
By the common Soxhlet extraction with 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene a mere 8 ::: mass % of virgin fullerene soot can be dissolved. The extracted soot was ::: subjected to a reactive extraction with ::: 5-hexadecanamido-1,3-dihydro-2-benzothiophene 2,2-dioxide(4), an ::: ortho-quinodimethane precursor. Through an irreversible ::: Diels–Alder cycloaddition an additional 12 mass % was solubilized. ::: Mass spectrometry, vapour pressure osmometry and elemental analysis ::: indicate that the soluble material consists of multiple adducts of ::: fullerenes C ::: 60 ::: –C ::: 418 ::: .
A micrometer-sized, nanostructured. flower-like Co3O4-CeO2 composite oxide was synthesized by an ethylene-glycol-mediated process. The composite oxide was an assembly of polycrystalline nanopartides, with a typical mesoporous structure. The composite's catalytic activity in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene degradation was evaluated usinga pulsed-flow microreactor-gas chromatography system, and compared with that of quartz sand, commercial CeO2, commercial Co3O4, and a Co3O4/CeO2 equimass mixture. The composite oxide was a promising catalyst for 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene degradation. This is attributed to the structural features of the composite oxide with a high specific surface area and a high total pore volume, and the synergistic effect between the two composite phases. The easy creation of high-mobility active oxygen on CeO2 and the easy cleavage of Co-O bonds at the interface of the two components promote reactivity of Co3O4 in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene degradation. Pulsed catalytic theory suggests a first-order reaction between the composite oxide and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, with an apparent activation energy of about 27 kJ/mol, and degradation on the Co3O4-CeO2 composite oxide would occur easily. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Abstract The elution behavior of linear polyethylene and isotactic, atactic and syndiotactic polypropylene was tested using three different carbon column packings: porous graphite (Hypercarb), porous zirconium oxide covered with carbon (ZirChrom-CARB), and activated carbon TA 95. Several polar solvents with boiling points above 150 °C were selected as mobile phases: 2-ethyl-1-hexanol, n-decanol, cyclohexylacetate, hexylacetate, cyclohexanone, ethylene glycol monobutyl ether and one non-polar solvent, n-decane. Polyethylene standards were completely or partially adsorbed in all tested sorbent/solvent systems. Polypropylene standards were partially adsorbed on Hypercarb and carbon TA95, but did not adsorb on ZirChrom-CARB. ZirChrom-CARB retained polyethylene pronouncedly when 2-ethyl-1-hexanol, cyclohexylacetate or hexylacetate were used as mobile phases at temperature 150 or 160 °C, while all three basic stereoisomers of polypropylene eluted in size exclusion mode in these sorbent/solvent pairs. This is very different from the system Hypercarb/1-decanol, which separated polypropylene according to its tacticity. The opposite elution behavior of polyethylene and polypropylene in system ZirChrom-CARB/2-ethyl-1-hexanol (polypropylene eluted, polyethylene fully adsorbed) enabled to realize separation of blends of polyethylene and polypropylene. Ethylene/1-hexene copolymers were separated according to their chemical composition using system Hypercarb/2-ethyl-1-hexanol/1,2,4-trichlorobenzene.
The aggregation of poly(1,3-cyclohexadiene) (PCHD), obtained by anionic polymerization with alkyllithium/amine systems, was examined using size exclusion chromatography (SEC) and size exclusion chromatography coupled with a multiangle laser light scattering photometer (SEC-MALS). The PCHD polymer chain has a structure consisting of a main chain formed by 1,2-addition (the 1,2-CHD unit) and 1,4-addition (the 1,4-CHD unit). Mild stirring with relatively low temperature in the polymerization reaction forms an aggregation of PCHD. The molecular weight and molar ratio of 1,2-CHD/1,4-CHD units in the polymer chain strongly influence the aggregation of PCHD. In a high molecular weight PCHD, containing ∼50% 1,2-CHD units, an aggregation of the polymer was observed in tetrahydrofuran (THF) solution at room temperature. This aggregation of PCHD was soluble in 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCBz) and could be separated into each polymer molecule. In contrast, a polymer chain with a high content of 1,4-CHD units having a relatively low cis-stereospecificity was easily soluble in THF and TCBz without aggregating. A long polymer chain structure with a high content of 1,2-CHD units is considered to be the reason for the generation of strong intermolecular forces contributing to the aggregation of PCHD with the solvophobic interactions. The degree of aggregation could be controlled by the conditions of the PCHD polymer solution. © 2006 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Polym Sci Part B: Polym Phys 44: 1442–1452, 2006
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene (TCB), a well known termite exterminator, is prepared selectively from 1,2-dichlorobenzene (DCB) using zeolite K-L as a catalyst and monochloroacetic acid as a promoter. An attempt has been made to apply the combination of molecular graphics, force field calculations and quantum chemical calculations to understand the mechanism of selective chlorination of 1,2-DCB to 1,2,4-TCB over K-L promoted by monochloroacetic acid. It was found that the zeolite lattice plays an important role in polarising the molecules. The peculiar “barrel shaped” pore architecture allows zeolite L to act as a reactor vessel where monochloroacetic acid, chlorine and 1,2-DCB can be accommodated on a molecular level.
Dramatic weight loss has been found to result in the remobilisation of HCB from adipose tissue into the blood stream, and subsequent redistribution to other tissues in mice. 18 This may be particularly problematic for humpback whales due to their unique life history traits, involving migration between feeding and breeding grounds, associated with extended periods of fasting and depletion of fat reserves. 8, 19 To date, however, nothing is known about the species-specic toxicity of HCB to baleen whales. Controlled experimentation on large, free-roaming cetaceans is neither logistically nor ethically feasible, hence novel effect assessment tools have been repeatedly sought by researchers and environmental agencies alike. 20, 21 Cell lines can be a powerful method to study mechanisms of toxicity and potential species differences. 22 Cell lines have been established and successfully applied in toxicity testing for several cetaceans, including a number of Mediterranean dolphin species and Arctic beluga whales. 23, 24 Recently, we developed a humpback whale broblast cell line (HuWa), for the rst time opening up the possibility for in vitro effect assessment for this species. 25 First toxicological investigations using this cell line highlighted human-whale interspecies differences in sensitivity to typical POP compounds accumulating in the blubber of humpback whales, underscoring the need for species-specic risk assessment. 25 HuWa cells have moreover been transfected by exogenous gene transfer with telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT), which enables longterm preservation of HuWa cell lines. 26 While the establishment of the HuWa cell line offers novel opportunities for exploring the toxicity of chemicals to humpback whales, HCB's physico-chemical properties comprise a challenge, especially in small-scale cell bioassay systems, which favour sorption of hydrophobic chemicals and are prone to losses through volatilisation. Most effect evaluation studies to date have been conducted by dissolving HCB in an organic solvent. [27] [28] [29] [30] However, stable exposure concentrations cannot be reached in this way. [31] [32] [33] It was, for example, shown that concentrations of a PAH and a chlorobenzene decrease dramatically over time in a solvent-spiked setup: concentrations of benzo(a)pyrene and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene were reduced to 64% and 11% of the original concentrations, respectively, 48 hours aer direct spiking. 33 As a consequence, effect concentrations derived from nominal concentrations may grossly underestimate toxicity. 33 One approach to achieve well-dened exposure conditions is silicone-based passive dosing. Silicone is chemically inert, biologically compatible, and features high absorption capacities for hydrophobic chemicals; it can thus be 'loaded' with hydrophobic chemicals and act as a reservoir. Based on the concentration gradient between the reservoir and the other compartments in the system, the chemical diffuses into the exposure medium where a stable concentration is achieved at the equilibrium level. Thus, losses in the exposure system can be compensated and the need for co-solvents eliminated. Both silicone discs, rods, and O-rings have been used in different toxicity assays and with various classes of organic chemicals, including chlorobenzenes. [33] [34] [35] [36] [37] [38] [39] [40] [41] In the present study, a ready-to-use passive dosing setup for HCB was established and all the necessary partitioning coefficients were determined. Silicon O-rings were used as a reservoir to achieve stable and predictable HCB concentrations in mammalian cell culture medium. The setup was employed to carry out in vitro cytotoxicity and genotoxicity tests with the novel HuWa TERT cell line. This is the rst study focussing on species-specic toxicity tests for humpback whales with HCB.
KEY MESSAGE ::: γ-HCH was successfully degraded using LinA-expressed transgenic hairy root cultures of Cucurbita moschata . Fusing an endoplasmic reticulum-targeting signal peptide to LinA was essential for stable accumulation in the hairy roots. The pesticide γ-hexachlorocyclohexane (γ-HCH) is a persistent organic pollutant (POP) that raises public health and environmental pollution concerns worldwide. Although several isolates of γ-HCH-degrading bacteria are available, inoculating them directly into γ-HCH-contaminated soil is ineffective because of the bacterial survival rate. Cucurbita species incorporate significant amounts of POPs from soils compared with other plant species. Here, we describe a novel bioremediation strategy that combines the bacterial degradation of γ-HCH and the efficient uptake of γ-HCH by Cucurbita species. We produced transgenic hairy root cultures of Cucurbita moschata that expressed recombinant bacterial linA, isolated from the bacterium Sphingobium japonicum UT26. The LinA protein was accumulated stably in the hairy root cultures by fusing an endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-targeting signal peptide to LinA. Then, we demonstrated that the cultures degraded more than 90 % of γ-HCH (1 ppm) overnight and produced the γ-HCH metabolite 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, indicating that LinA degraded γ-HCH. These results indicate that the gene linA has high potential for phytoremediation of environmental γ-HCH.
Rhodococcus sp. strain MS11 was isolated from a mixed culture. It displays a diverse range of metabolic capabilities. During growth on 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene (1,2,4,5-TeCB) and 3-chlorobenzoate stoichiometric amounts of chloride were released. It also utilized all three isomeric dichlorobenzenes and 1,2,3-trichlorobenzene as the sole carbon and energy source. Furthermore, the bacterium grew well on a great number of n-alkanes ranging from n-heptane to n-triacontane and on the branched alkane 2,6,10,14-tetramethylpentadecane (pristane) and slowly on n-hexane and n-pentatriacontane. It was able to grow at temperatures from 5 to 30 degrees C, with optimal growth at 20 degrees C, and could tolerate 6 % NaCl in mineral salts medium. Genes encoding the initial chlorobenzene dioxygenase were detected by using a primer pair that was designed against the alpha-subunit (TecA1) of the chlorobenzene dioxygenase of Ralstonia (formerly Burkholderia) sp. strain PS12. The amino acid sequence of the amplified part of the alpha-subunit of the chlorobenzene dioxygenase of Rhodococcus sp. strain MS11 showed >99 % identity to the alpha-subunit of the chlorobenzene dioxygenase from Ralstonia sp. strain PS12 and the parts of both alpha-subunits responsible for substrate specificity were identical. The subsequent enzymes dihydrodiol dehydrogenase and chlorocatechol 1,2-dioxygenase were induced in cells grown on 1,2,4,5-TeCB. During cultivation on medium-chain-length n-alkanes ranging from n-decane to n-heptadecane, including 1-hexadecene, and on the branched alkane pristane, strain MS11 produced biosurfactants lowering the surface tension of the cultures from 72 to </=29 mN m(-1). Glycolipids were extracted from the supernatant of a culture grown on n-hexadecane and characterized by (1)H- and (13)C-NMR-spectroscopy and mass spectrometry. The two major components consisted of alpha,alpha-trehalose esterified at C-2 or C-4 with a succinic acid and at C-2' with a decanoic acid. They differed from one another in that one 2,3,4,2'-trehalosetetraester, found in higher concentration, was esterified at C-2, C-3 or C-4 with one octanoic and one decanoic acid and the other one, of lower concentration, with two octanoic acids. The results demonstrate that Rhodococcus sp. strain MS11 may be well suited for bioremediation of soils and sediments contaminated for a long time with di-, tri- and tetrachlorobenzenes as well as alkanes.
The ability of the product of a desired reaction to activate a bacterial transcriptional regulator was exploited to develop genetic traps that render the catalytic activity born by a DNA clone into a selectable/scorable phenotype. We established this strategy with a system to expose the activity of dehydrochlorinases acting upon gamma-hexachlorocyclohexane (gamma-HCH or lindane). To this end, the effector-binding protein, XylR, was evolved by gene shuffling plus mutagenic polymerase chain reaction to be optimally responsive to the major product of gamma-HCH dehydrochlorination, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB). We then derived Escherichia coli strains that constitutively expressed the modified XylR variant (named XylR5) and had lacZ under control of the Pu promoter, which is activated by XylR. A robotic beta-galactosidase assay indicated that when the resulting strain was transformed with a linA+ clone (expressing a gamma-HCH dehydrochlorinase from Sphingomonas paucimobilis UT26), it had levels of beta-galactosidase that were dependent on the gamma-HCH concentration. This à la carte host thus translated the conversion of gamma-HCH to TCB into upregulation of lacZ. An alternate host additionally expressing LacY grew efficiently on lactose only when LacZ was upregulated in a fashion dependent on TCB or other effectors of XylR5. These results demonstrated the power of deriving a host for the genetic scrutiny, rather than enzymatic screening, of clones expressing a given catabolic enzyme.
A straightforward, efficient, and generalizable synthesis of symmetrically substituted 2,3,9,10,16,17,23,24-octaalkyl-phthalocyanines and uranyl 2,3,9,10,16,17,23,24,30,31-decaalkylsuperphthalocyaninates from o-dialkylbenzenes is described. For phthalocyanines, the approach is illustrated for methyl and n-butyl substituents, and both metal-free and nickel complexes are reported. Uranyl superphthalocyanines have been prepared with methyl and n-butyl substituents. The new complexes have been characterized by a variety of chemical and physicochemical methods. Quantitative determination of the solubilities of substituted and unsubstituted phthalocyanine and superphthalocyanine complexes in both 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and toluene demonstrates decreasing solubility in the order (4,5-Bu/sub 2/)/sub 5/SPcUO/sub 2/ > (4-Me)/sub 5/SPcUO/sub 2/ > (4,5-Me/sub 2/)/sub 5/SPcUO/sub 2/ > SPcUO/sub 2/ > (4-Me)/sub 4/PcH/sub 2/ > Ni(4,5-Bu/sub 2/)Pc > Ni(4,5-Me/sub 2/)/sub 4/Pc > NiPc. Attempts to displace the uranyl ion from (4,5-R/sub 2/)/sub 5/SPcUO/sub 2/ with acids or Cu(OAc)/sub 2/ lead to the formation of (4,5-R/sub 2/)/sub 4/PcH/sub 2/ or Cu(4,5-R/sub 2/)/sub 4/Pc, respectively.
The porphyrinogenic action of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) was examined in 17-day-old embryos, day-old chicks, 18-day-old chickens and adult Japanese quail. The quail was found to be the most sensitive species towards TCB induced porphyria whereas the chick embryo was totally non-responsive. The liver porphyrins of Japanese quail were increased in a dose-dependent manner 1 day after TCB. Elevation in porphyrin levels in quail was associated with comparable increases in delta-aminolevulinic acid synthetase (ALA-S) activity 1 day after TCB treatment. In contrast, ferrochelatase activity was found to be unchanged 1 day after TCB. Multiple administration of TCB produced only a slight increase in liver porphyrin levels and ALA-S activity in quail. However, there was a marked induction in ferrochelatase activity suggesting increased porphyrin turnover. Liver glutathione and glutathione S-transferase activity were also significantly increased following repeated administration of TCB in quail, which could indicate an enhancement of detoxication of reactive metabolites of TCB. Thus, it is suggested that the inability of low multiple doses of TCB to cause porphyria in Japanese quail may be related to the low responsiveness of ALA-S but high inducibility of ferrochelatase liver GSH and glutathione S-transferase.
Corresponding to the biochemical function in chlorocatechol degradation, the following maleylacetate reductase genes have been shown to be associated with dioxygenase, cycloisomerase, and dienelactone hydrolase genes as components of specialized chlorocatechol catabolic operons: tfdF and tfdF II on pJP4 from the 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetate-utilizing strain Ralstonia eutropha (Alcaligenes eutrophus) JMP134 (29, 33, 37, 44), tcbF on pP51 from the 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene-degrading strain Pseudomonas sp. strain P51 (45), and clcE from the 3-chlorobenzoate catabolizing strains Pseudomonas sp. strain B13 and Pseudomonas putida AC866(pAC27) (15, 20, 21) . Catechol degradation, in contrast, does not require a maleylacetate reductase activity, and corresponding genes do not belong to the known catechol operons. Thus, while at least two of the chlorocatechol catabolic enzymes, i.e., the dioxygenases and cycloisomerases, appear to have been recruited from catechol catabolism, maleylacetate reductase genes must have had a different origin and original function (34).
Rhodococcus sp. strain MS11 was isolated from a mixed culture. It displays a diverse range of metabolic capabilities. During growth on 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene (1,2,4,5-TeCB) and 3-chlorobenzoate stoichiometric amounts of chloride were released. It also utilized all three isomeric dichlorobenzenes and 1,2,3-trichlorobenzene as the sole carbon and energy source. Furthermore, the bacterium grew well on a great number of n-alkanes ranging from n-heptane to n-triacontane and on the branched alkane 2,6,10,14-tetramethylpentadecane (pristane) and slowly on n-hexane and n-pentatriacontane. It was able to grow at temperatures from 5 to 30 6C, with optimal growth at 20 6C, and could tolerate 6 % NaCl in mineral salts medium. Genes encoding the initial chlorobenzene dioxygenase were detected by using a primer pair that was designed against the a-subunit (TecA1) of the chlorobenzene dioxygenase of Ralstonia (formerly Burkholderia) sp. strain PS12. The amino acid sequence of the amplified part of the a-subunit of the chlorobenzene dioxygenase of Rhodococcus sp. strain MS11 showed >99 % identity to the a-subunit of the chlorobenzene dioxygenase from Ralstonia sp. strain PS12 and the parts of both a-subunits responsible for substrate specificity were identical. The subsequent enzymes dihydrodiol dehydrogenase and chlorocatechol 1,2-dioxygenase were induced in cells grown on 1,2,4,5-TeCB. During cultivation on medium-chain-length n-alkanes ranging from n-decane to n-heptadecane, including 1-hexadecene, and on the branched alkane pristane, strain MS11 produced biosurfactants lowering the surface tension of the cultures from 72 to
