9-Ethyladenine was used as the basis for a series of non-xanthine adenosine receptor antagonists at human adenosine receptors. The adenine-based compounds were substituted in 2- or 8-position with a variety of side chains including some aryl or arylalkynyl groups previously tested as 2-substituents in adenosine and 5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine (NECA) for their effect on agonist affinity. The affinity of the novel compounds was tested in radioligand binding assays (A1, A2A and A3) and inhibition of NECA-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity (A2B) in membranes prepared from CHO cells stably transfected with the respective human receptor subtype. High affinity antagonists were identified for A1 (9-ethyl-8-phenyl-9H-adenine, compound 2; 6-(1-butylamino)-9-ethyl-8-phenyl-9H-purine, compound 3), A2A (8-ethoxy-9-ethyladenine; compound 8) and A3 (9-ethyl-8-phenylethynyl-9H-adenine, compound 5) with selectivities versus other receptor subtypes in the range of 10 to 600. These results demonstrate that adenine is a useful template for further development of high-affinity antagonists with distinct receptor selectivity profiles.
Riboflavin-2′,3′,4′,5′-tetraacetate and tetrabutyrate have been found to associate with 9-ethyladenine. They form stronger complexes with each other than with themselves and with other nucleic acid purine and pyrimidine derivatives. The association constants of the formation of the complexes were determined from the infrared spectra to be 130 and 95M−1 respectively. The complex is a 1 : 1 cyclic hydrogen bonded dimer through the imino and the 2-C carbonyl groups of the isoalloxazine ring and the amino group of the adenine residue. 9-Ethyladenine is an effective quencher of the fluorescence of riboflavin tetraacetate. The quenching appears mainly due to the coplanar interaction through hydrogen bonds and partly due to the collision interaction with the purine rings. Some barbiturates were found to prevent the formation of the complex of the adenine and riboflavin derivatives by the formation of more stable complexes with ethyladenine.
In the present study an investigation of the structure-activity relationships in 9-ethylpurine derivatives, aimed at preparing A1, A2A, A2B, and A3 selective adenosine receptor antagonists, was undertaken. Our synthetic approach was to introduce various substituents (amino, alkoxy and alkynyl groups) into the 2-, 6-, or 8-positions of the purine ring. The starting compounds for each series of derivatives were respectively: 2-iodo-9-ethyladenine (9), obtained from 2-amino-6-chloropurine (5); 9-ethyl-6-iodo-9H-purine (11), 8-bromo-9-ethyl-adenine (3) and 8-bromo-9-ethyl-6-iodo-9H-purine (13), obtained from 9-ethyl-adenine (2). The synthesized compounds were tested in in vitro radioligand binding assays at A1, A2A, and A3 human adenosine receptor subtypes. Due to the lack of a suitable radioligand the affinity of the 9-ethyladenine derivatives at A2B adenosine receptors was determined in adenylyl cyclase experiments. In general, the series of 9-ethylpurine derivatives exhibited a similar pharmacological profile at A1 and A2A receptors whereas some differences were found for the A3 and the A2B subtypes. 8-Bromo-9-ethyladenine (3) showed higher affinity for all receptors in comparison to the parent compound 2, and the highest affinity in the series for the A2A and A2B subtypes (Ki = 0.052 and 0.84 microM, respectively). Analyzing the different substituents, a phenethoxy group in 2-position (10a) gave the highest A2A versus A2B selectivity (near 400-fold), whereas a phenethylamino group in 2- and 6-position (10b and 12b, respectively) improved the affinity at A2B receptors, compared to the parent compound 2. The presence of a hexynyl substituent in 8-position led to a compound with good affinity at the A3 receptor (4d, Ki = 0.62 microM), whereas (ar)alkynyl groups are detrimental for the potency at the A2B subtype. These differences give raise to the hope that further modifications will result in the development of currently unavailable leads with good affinity and selectivity for A2B adenosine receptors.
Adeninylethylcobalamin (AdeEtCbl) underwent cleavage of the C-Co bond by interaction with apoprotein of diol dehydrase from Klebsiella pneumoniae ATCC 8724, although this analog was quite inactive as coenzyme. Spectroscopic observation indicates that AdeEtCbl was converted to the enzyme-bound hydroxocobalamin without intermediates. The conversion was stoichiometric (1:1) and obeyed the second-order reaction kinetics (k = 0.027 min-1 microM-1 at 37 degrees C) depending upon concentrations of apoprotein and AdeEtCbl. This suggests that the complex formation is the rate-determining step and that AdeEtCbl undergoes rapid C-Co bond cleavage once it binds to the apoenzyme. Substrates and oxygen did apparently not affect the rate of the C-Co bond cleavage. The experiments using [adenine-U-14C]AdeEtCbl and [1(3)-3H]glycerol demonstrated that 9-ethyladenine was the only product formed from the adeninylethyl group of AdeEtCbl during the conversion and that an additional hydrogen atom in the 9-ethyladenine is not derived from the substrate. 1H NMR measurement of the 9-ethyladenine formed enzymatically from AdeEtCbl and DL-1,2-[1,1,2-2H3]propanediol also led to the same conclusion. All of these results indicate that the C-Co bond of AdeEtCbl is activated by diol dehydrase and undergoes heterolysis forming Co(III) and a carbanion or a carbanion-like species, in clear contrast to the homolysis of the C-Co bond of adenosylcobalamin in the normal catalytic process. 9-Ethyladenine formed remained tightly associated with the enzyme. Longer chain homologs, i.e. adeninylpropylcobalamin, adeninylbutylcobalamin, and adeninylpentylcobalamin did not undergo such cleavage of the C-Co bond by diol dehydrase.
Adenosine A2A receptor antagonists have emerged as an attractive non-dopaminergic target in clinical trials aimed at evaluating improvement in motor deficits in Parkinson's disease (PD). Moreover, preclinical studies suggest that A2A receptor antagonists may slow the course of the underlying neurodegeneration of dopaminergic neurons. In this study, we evaluated the efficacy of the new adenosine A2A receptor antagonist 8-ethoxy-9-ethyladenine (ANR 94) in parkinsonian models of akinesia and tremor. In addition, induction of the immediate early gene zif-268, and neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory effects of ANR 94 were evaluated. ANR 94 was effective in reversing parkinsonian tremor induced by the administration of tacrine. ANR 94 also counteracted akinesia (stepping test) and sensorimotor deficits (vibrissae-elicited forelimb-placing test), as well as potentiating l-dopa-induced contralateral turning behavior in 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion model of PD. Potentiation of motor behavior in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats was not associated with increased induction of the immediate early gene zif-268 in the striatum, suggesting that ANR 94 does not induce long-term plastic changes in this structure. Finally, in a subchronic 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) mouse model of PD, ANR 94 protected nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons from degeneration and counteracted neuroinflammatory processes by contrasting astroglial (glial fibrillary acidic protein, GFAP) and microglial (CD11b) activation. A2A receptor antagonism represents a uniquely realistic opportunity for improving PD treatment, since A2A receptor antagonists offer substantial symptomatic benefits and possibly disease-modifying activity. The characterization of ANR 94 may represent a further therapeutic opportunity for the treatment of PD with this new class of drugs.
Abstract The association between 1-cyclohexyluracil (U) and 9-ethyladenine (A) in chloroform is found to be much stronger than the self association of either, which confirms the work of Kyogoku, Lord & Rich (1967). The equilibrium constants for association are 92 ± 10, 13 ± 2 and 19 ± 4 mole −1 l. at 25 °C for AU, A 2 and U 2 , respectively. Enthalpy changes for the association are −4.9 ± 0.3, −1.31 ± 0.10 and −1.99 ± 0.06 kcal, mole −1 , respectively. If the ethyl alcohol commonly used as a preservative in chloroform is removed, the association constant for AU is 98 ± 10 mole −1 l. and the change in enthalpy is −6.2 ± 0.3 kcal. mole −1 . The method used in these determinations is the measurement of heats of dilution of the associated species over a series of concentrations. Equilibrium constants are tabulated against heat ratios at different concentrations. A range of equilibrium constants which can be calculated practically is thereby established.
The energetic of complexation of highly flexible model receptors with adenine derivatives is reported. These cleftlike receptors, which are complementary to both hydrogen bonding edges of adenine, consist of two imides acylated to an alkyl chain. NMR titration studies reveal that intramolecular hydrogen bonding of these receptors can compete with the chelation of 9-ethyladenine (in CDCl 3 ), resulting in lowered association constants. This phenomenon is probeb by comparing the behavior of receptors with alkyl chains of varying lengths. The binding behavior of a triimide derived from tris(2-aminoethyl)amine (tren) is also described
Numerous studies, both experimental and theoretical, were initiated to understand the specificity of base pairing and to evaluate quantitatively the energetics involved in this interaction. The mass spectroscopic values of -13.0 kcal/mol and -21.0 kcal/mol for AT and GC, respectively, 16 have been valuable reference points for studies on base pairing enthalpies in the gas phase. Early attempts to estimate the base pairing energies in solution 17, 18 revealed that base stacking, rather than pairing of mononucleotides, is favored in aqueous environment, as considerable competition is expected from the solvent. Experimental studies thus employed nonaqueous solvents to study the properties of specific H-bonded complexes. Kyogoku et al. [19] [20] [21] reported a value of -6.2 ( 0.2 kcal/mol (-3.1 kcal/mol per H-bond) for the enthalpy of formation of 9-ethyladenine and 1-cyclohexyluracil base pair in chloroform. Newmark and Cantor 22 estimated, from NMR spectra, an enthalpy change of -5.8 kcal/mol (-1.9 kcal/mol per H-bond) and an entropy change of -16 eu for the formation of a GC base pair from solvated monomers in dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO). They rationalized the observed enthalpy change as being due to the formation of hydrogen bonds. As DMSO is a strong proton acceptor, the degree of H-bonding was considered to be closer to that in water. 22 Turner et al. 23 derived free energy increments for H-bonds in nucleic acid base pairs from measurements of optical melting curves. They predicted a maximum ∆∆G HB of -2.0 kcal/mol per H-bond for double helical oligoribonucleotides of GC in aqueous medium. The enthalpic contribution may be expected to be slightly larger since pairing involves some entropy loss. It is equally conceivable that this loss in entropy attendant upon pairing of bases, which are already anchored to the sugar-phosphate backbone, is offset by a favorable hydrophobic contribution originating in the formation of a smaller cavity in water for a pair than for unpaired bases, leading to similar magnitudes for both enthalpy and free energy of pairing. Also, there is no a priori reason to expect that the hydrogen bond energetics is drastically different in oligodeoxyribonucleotides. A subtle point to be noted is that the values of Turner et al. are more a reflection of the interaction strength of a hydrogen bond in a base pair and the associated free energy cost for switching off a hydrogen bond, rather than free energy of base pair formation/H-bond. Sinden (ref 3, p 13) proposes a value of -2 to -3 kcal/mol as the strength of hydrogen bond in DNA.
Summary Absorption studies of hydrogen bonding association between nucleic acid bases and amino acid side chains show that association constants can be determined from difference absorption spectra in cyclohexane and chloroform. Association constants for the binding of 9-ethyladenine, 1-cyclohexyluracil and 1-cyclohexylcytosine to side chains of serine, threonine, aspartic acid, lysine, cysteine, methionine and tyrosine are reported. Results obtained in chloroform and cyclohexane are compared.
1. ::: 1. Phenobarbital and barbital modified the absorption and circular dichroism (CD) spectra of d-amino acid oxidase [d-amino acid:O2 oxidoreductase (deaminating), EC 1.4.3.3] and inhibited the enzyme in competition with the substrate, but barbituric acid did not. 1-Methyl-5-bromouracil, 1-methyluracil, 1-methyl-4-thiouracil and 9-ethyladenine also produced changes in the absorption and CD spectra of the enzyme, and acted as inhibitor. Among these, 1-methyl-4-thiouracil was unique in that it produced diffuse absorption extending to 700 nm and positive CD in the corresponding wavelength region. However, uridine, 5-bromouridine and adenosine did not affect the absorption and CD spectra of the enzyme, indicating that bulky, hydrophilic groups attached to bases disturbed the binding. ::: ::: 2. ::: 2. The Ki of phenobarbital was not lowered with decreasing pH from 8 to 6. Since the pKa of phenobarbital is 7.5, this result indictes that the non-ionized form of the compound effectively combines with the enzyme. No correlation was found between the Ki values (at pH 8.3) and the pKa values of barbiturates and uracil derivatives. Thus, these compounds are considered to bind to the enzyme without essential participation of an anionic group, in contrast to the other known inhibitors such as benzoate.
The synthesis of a series of 9-ethyladenine derivatives bearing alkynyl chains in 2- or 8-position was undertaken, based on the observation that replacement of the sugar moiety in adenosine derivatives with alkyl groups led to adenosine receptor antagonists. All the synthesized compounds were tested for their affinity at human and rat A1, A2A, and A3 adenosine receptors in binding assays; the activity at the human A2B receptor was determined in adenylyl cyclase experiments. Biological data showed that the 2-alkynyl derivatives possess good affinity and are slightly selective for the human A2A receptor. The same compounds tested on the rat A1 and A2A subtypes showed in general lower affinity for both receptors. On the other hand, the affinity of the 8-alkynyl derivatives at the human A1, A2A, and A2B receptors proved to be lower than that of the corresponding 2-alkynyl derivatives. On the contrary, the affinity of the same compounds for the human A3 receptor was improved, resulting in A3 selectivity. As in the case of the 2-alkynyl-substituted compounds, the 8-alkynyl derivatives showed decreased affinity for rat receptors. However, it is worthwhile to note that the 8-phenylethynyl-9-ethyladenine was the most active compound of the two series (Ki in the nanomolar range) at both the human and rat A3 subtype. Docking experiments of the 2- and 8-phenylethynyl-9-ethyladenines, at a rhodopsin-based homology model, gave a rational explanation of the preference of the human A3 receptor for the 8-substituted compound.
The synthesis of a series of 9-ethyladenine derivatives bearing alkynyl chains in 2-or 8-position was undertaken, based on the observation that replacement of the sugar moiety in adenosine derivatives with alkyl groups led to adenosine receptor antagonists. All the synthesized compounds were tested for their affinity at human and rat A 1 , A 2A , and A 3 adenosine receptors in binding assays; the activity at the human A 2B receptor was determined in adenylyl cyclase experiments. Biological data showed that the 2-alkynyl derivatives possess good affinity and are slightly selective for the human A 2A receptor. The same compounds tested on the rat A 1 and A 2A subtypes showed in general lower affinity for both receptors. On the other hand, the affinity of the 8-alkynyl derivatives at the human A 1 , A 2A , and A 2B receptors proved to be lower than that of the corresponding 2-alkynyl derivatives. On the contrary, the affinity of the same compounds for the human A 3 receptor was improved, resulting in A 3 selectivity. As in the case of the 2-alkynyl-substituted compounds, the 8-alkynyl derivatives showed decreased affinity for rat receptors. However, it is worthwhile to note that the 8-phenylethynyl-9-ethyladenine was the most active compound of the two series (K i in the nanomolar range) at both thehuman and rat A 3 subtype. Docking experiments of the 2-and 8-phenylethynyl-9-ethyladenines, at a rhodopsin-based homology model, gave a rational explanation of the preference of the human A 3 receptor for the 8-substituted compound.
Moreover, we have published the synthesis and activities for the human AdoR subtypes of a series of 9-ethyladenines, substituted at the 2-, 6-and 8-positions, which behaved as AdoR antagonists [18Y20] . In fact, replacement of the sugar moiety of adenosine with a methyl group led to a rather unselective antagonist of AdoR and adenine itself is a weak adenosine antagonist [21] .N 6 -cyclopentyladenine derivatives were characterized as neutral antagonists endowed with high affinity for the A 1 AdoR [23] .
Hence, starting from these observations and in order to widen our study on 9-ethyladenine derivatives, a series of 9-ethyladenines bearing alkynyl chains at the 2-or 8-position were synthesized and tested at human and rat AdoR subtypes.
The low-spin 5d6 IrIII organometallic half-sandwich complexes [(η5-Cpx)Ir(XY)Cl]0/+, Cpx = Cp*, tetramethyl(phenyl)cyclopentadienyl (Cpxph), or tetramethyl(biphenyl)cyclopentadienyl (Cpxbiph), XY = 1,10-phenanthroline (4−6), 2,2′-bipyridine (7−9), ethylenediamine (10 and 11), or picolinate (12−14), hydrolyze rapidly. Complexes with N,N-chelating ligands readily form adducts with 9-ethylguanine but not 9-ethyladenine; picolinate complexes bind to both purines. Cytotoxic potency toward A2780 human ovarian cancer cells increases with phenyl substitution on Cp*: Cpxbiph > Cpxph > Cp*; Cpxbiph complexes 6 and 9 have submicromolar activity. Guanine residues are preferential binding sites for 4−6 on plasmid DNA. Hydrophobicity (log P), cell and nucleus accumulation of Ir correlate with cytotoxicity, 6 > 5 > 4; they distribute similarly within cells. The ability to displace DNA intercalator ethidium bromide from DNA correlates with cytotoxicity and viscosity of Ir−DNA adducts. The hydrophobicity and intercalative...
Abstract Novel molecular recognition materials were prepared from commercially available Torlon ® 4000T polyamide–imide by an alternative molecular imprinting. Torlon ® 4000T was converted into the molecularly imprinted film adopting 9-ethyladenine as a print molecule, whereby the adenosine recognition site was formed. The molecular recognition phenomena were studied by SPR spectroscopy. The apparent affinity constant toward adenosine, estimated by using apparent adsorption isotherms, ranged from 2.73×10 4 to 7.86×10 4 mol −1 dm 3 . The present work demonstrates that SPR spectroscopy is a facile method for the study of molecularly imprinted materials. The results obtained in the present study also suggest that Torlon ® 4000T is one of the more highly effective candidate materials to be converted into molecular recognition materials by applying an alternative molecular imprinting.
The synthesis and characterization of complexes [(η(6)-arene)Ru(N,N')X][PF(6)], where arene is para-cymene (p-cym), biphenyl (bip), ethyl benzoate (etb), hexamethylbenzene (hmb), indane (ind) or 1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalene (thn), N,N' is 2,2'-bipyrimidine (bpm) and X is Cl, Br or I, are reported, including the X-ray crystal structures of [(η(6)-p-cym)Ru(bpm)I][PF(6)], [(η(6)-bip)Ru(bpm)Cl][PF(6)], [(η(6)-bip)Ru(bpm)I][PF(6)] and [(η(6)-etb)Ru(bpm)Cl][PF(6)]. Complexes in which N,N' is 1,10-phenanthroline (phen), 1,10-phenanthroline-5,6-dione or 4,7-diphenyl-1,10-phenanthroline (bathophen) were studied for comparison. The Ru(II) arene complexes undergo ligand-exchange reactions in aqueous solution at 310 K; their half-lives for hydrolysis range from 14 to 715 min. Density functional theory calculations on [(η(6)-p-cym)Ru(bpm)Cl][PF(6)], [(η(6)-p-cym)Ru(bpm)Br][PF(6)], [(η(6)-p-cym)Ru(bpm)I][PF(6)], [(η(6)-bip)Ru(bpm)Cl][PF(6)], [(η(6)-bip)Ru(bpm)Br][PF(6)] and [(η(6)-bip)Ru(bpm)I][PF(6)] suggest that aquation occurs via an associative pathway and that the reaction is thermodynamically favourable when the leaving ligand is I > Br ≈ Cl. pK (a)* values for the aqua adducts of the complexes range from 6.9 to 7.32. A binding preference for 9-ethylguanine (9-EtG) compared with 9-ethyladenine (9-EtA) was observed for [(η(6)-p-cym)Ru(bpm)Cl][PF(6)], [(η(6)-hmb)Ru(bpm)Cl](+), [(η(6)-ind)Ru(bpm)Cl](+), [(η(6)-thn)Ru(bpm)Cl](+), [(η(6)-p-cym)Ru(phen)Cl](+) and [(η(6)-p-cym)Ru(bathophen)Cl](+) in aqueous solution at 310 K. The X-ray crystal structure of the guanine complex [(η(6)-p-cym)Ru(bpm)(9-EtG-N7)][PF(6)](2) shows multiple hydrogen bonding. Density functional theory calculations show that the 9-EtG adducts of all complexes are thermodynamically preferred compared with those of 9-EtA. However, the bmp complexes are inactive towards A2780 human ovarian cancer cells. Calf thymus DNA interactions for [(η(6)-p-cym)Ru(bpm)Cl][PF(6)] and [(η(6)-p-cym)Ru(phen)Cl][PF(6)] consist of weak coordinative, intercalative and monofunctional coordination. Binding to biomolecules such as glutathione may play a role in deactivating the bpm complexes.
The well-established mechanism of action of the cytotoxic drug cisplatin is the alteration of the secondary structure of DNA via coordination to the N7 atom of a guanine or an adenine base, which requires its prior aquation in the cell to generate the more reactive aqua complexes [1, 2] . In general, aquation can be an important activation step for transition metal complexes prior to their coordination to biomolecules [3] . Certain , where XY is a bidentate chelating ligand and Z is a leaving group, exhibit promising cytotoxic activity against a variety of cancer cell lines, including cisplatin-resistant cells [4, 5] . The nature of the arene, the chelating ligand and the leaving group can have a major influence on the rates of activation (towards hydrolysis and/or binding to biomolecules) as well as on the cytotoxic activity [6, 7] . It appears that the presence of a more hydrophobic arene ligand along with a single ligand-exchange site is often associated with significant anticancer activity. Blocking ligand-exchange reactions in the remaining two coordination sites can usually be achieved by coordination of a stable bidentate ligand; in this regard, particularly effective are those ligands containing N,N 0 heterocyclic groups [8] [9] [10] . In this work, we have studied and contrasted the chemical reactivity of a series of organometallic Ru II complexes of the type [(g 6 -arene)Ru(N,N 0 )X][PF 6 ] containing an N,N 0 chelating ligand, as well as various arenes, and different halides (X). Their aqueous solution chemistry and the nucleobase binding to 9-ethylguanine (9-EtG) and 9-ethyladenine (9-EtA) were investigated. Their potential as cytotoxic agents was explored not only by determining IC 50 values with regard to A2780 (human ovarian), A2780cis (human ovarian cisplatin resistant), A549 (human lung) or HCT116 (human colon) cancer cell lines but also by studying DNA interactions in cell-free media. c-Glutamyl-cysteinyl-glycine (glutathione, GSH) coordination to Pt II is known to inhibit DNA binding, contributing to cisplatin resistance in tumour cells [11] [12] [13] , and depending on its relative concentration [14, 15] , it can both facilitate and inhibit ruthenium interactions with DNA [16] . Reactions of GSH with a representative inactive Ru II arene complex (1; Fig. 1 ) in aqueous solution at 310 K were therefore investigated to establish whether GSH may play a role in the activity of this family of complexes.
— The photodimerization of 1-cyclohexylthymine (l-CT).and the effect of adding 9-ethyladenine (9-EA) on this reaction were studied in chloroform and/or acetonitrile solutions. The photodimerization of 1-CT is shown to occur through an excited triplet state. 9-EA works as an inhibitor against this reaction by quenching the excited singlet state of 1-CT. It is suggested that a singlet exciplex made up from the excited state 1-CT and the ground state 9-EA by hydrogen-bonding may play an important role in the quenching process.
Infrared absorption spectra, ultraviolet absorption spectra, phosphorescence spectra, phosphorescence lifetimes, and phosphorescence excitation spectra have been examined of 1-propyl-2-thiouracil in various solvents, including CCl4, CH3OH, CCl4+CH3OH, and CCl4+9-ethyladenine. For 1-cyclohexyluracil, and for 2-S-propyl-2-thiouracil, similar infrared spectroscopic examinations were also made. The results obtained are as follows: (1) In CCl4, the 2-thiouracil residue forms a hydrogen-bond complex with the adenine residue, in which the C4=O is involved in the hydrogen-bond. (2) The binding of 2-thiouracil and adenine is much stronger than that of 2-thiouracil and CH3OH; the 2-thiouracil·methanol binding is stronger than the uracil·methanol binding. (3) The hydrogen-bonding of the 2-thiouracil residue (with CH3OH or with adenine) causes an elevation of the lowest singlet excited state S1, which is probably an 1(nπ*), from 2.5×104 cm−1 to 2.6×104 cm−1, and the lowest triplet excited state T15 which is probably ...
The combination of electronic effects (PtII binding to N7 and N1) and a favourable conformation permitting efficient stabilization of the anion brings about a 109 fold increase in the exocyclic amino group acidity of 9-ethyladenine.
We present R2PI spectra of a series of purine nucleobases, nucleosides, and related derivatives, including adenine, guanine, guanosine, 2-aminopurine, 2,6-diaminopurine, 9-ethyladenine, and 9-methylguanine. We compare the results with models involving two interacting excited states, which have been proposed to explain the short excited-state lifetime of most nucleobases. The amino group in the 2 position appears to have a strong effect on the excited-state potentials, as does any substitution in the 9 position. This explains the very different fluorescence characteristics of 2-aminopurine, but it raises new questions concerning the short lifetime of guanine in solution.
We present R2PI spectra of a series of purine nucleobases, nucleosides, and related derivatives, including adenine, guanine, guanosine, 2-aminopurine, 2,6-diaminopurine, 9-ethyladenine, and 9-methylguanine. We compare the results with models involving two interacting excited states, which have been proposed to explain the short excited-state lifetime of most nucleobases. The amino group in the 2 position appears to have a strong effect on the excited-state potentials, as does any substitution in the 9 position. This explains the very different fluorescence characteristics of 2-aminopurine, but it raises new questions concerning the short lifetime of guanine in solution.
Novel molecular recognition films were prepared from modified polysulfone having perillaldehyde moiety as a side group. The molecular recognition films were obtained from perillaldehyde polysulfone by adopt- ing 9-ethyladenine as a print molecule. The molecular rec- ognition phenomena were studied by surface plasmon resonance (SPR) spectroscopy. Adsorption of adenosine (As) and guanosine (Gs) in the molecularly imprinted film was studied. Dual adsorption isotherms were observed for As in 9-EA imprinted films, while nonspecific adsorption isotherms for Gs in those films. This revealed that the mo- lecular recognition sites toward As were constructed in the films thus prepared. The apparent affinity constant to- ward As determined by using apparent adsorption iso-
In solution, the pyrazolylborate-zinc-nucleobase complexes show self-association and base pairing with external nucleobases. The self-association was studied quantitatively for Tp(Cum,Me)Zn-hypoxanthinate and Tp(Cum,Me)Zn-thyminate; the dimerization constants K(D) are 63 +/- 8 and 0.2 +/- 0.1 M(-1), respectively. Of the external nucleobases, 9-ethyladenine forms stable base pairs with the thyminate, uracilate, and xanthinate complexes, 9-isobutylguanine only with the cytosinate complex, 1-methylthymine with the adeninate and diaminopurinate complexes, and 1-methyluracil with the diaminopurinate complex. The association constant for the base pair Tp(Cum,Me)Zn-thyminate:9-ethyladenine was determined by NMR methods as K = 66 +/- 10 M(-1). Structure determinations of the crystalline adducts have confirmed the base pairing for Tp(Cum,Me)Zn-thyminate:9-ethyladenine, Tp(Cum,Me)Zn-cytosinate:9-isobutylguanine, and Tp(Cum,Me)Zn-xanthinate:9-ethyladenine. Both Watson-Crick and Hoogsteen base pairs have been observed. In the solid state, extended base pairing leads to quartet and polymer arrangements.
A mixed-purine nucleobase complex of composition trans-[(NH 3 ) 2 -Pt(9-EtA-N1)(9-MeHx-N7)](N0 3 ) 2 .2H 2 O (1) (9-EtA = 9-ethyladenine; 9-MeHx = 9-methylhypoxanthine) has been prepared and characterized by X-ray crystallography. Cations of 1 are self-complementary as far as hydrogen bonding properties are concerned and form H bonded dimers, containing four intermolecular hydrogen bonds in addition to two intramolecular ones. The resulting mixed-purine square is considered a model compound for a putative mixed-purine tetrad consisting of two adenines and two guanines. In this model, the one-metal, four-nucleobase quartet motif, as seen in guanine or uracil quartets of nucleic acids, with the metal located in the center of the base tetrad, has been altered to a two-metal, four-nucleobase motif, with the two metal ions localized at the periphery.
A cyclic arrangement of the four model nucleobases 1-methyluracilate (mura), 9-ethyladenine (eade), 9-ethylguanine (Hegua) and 1-methylcytosine (mcyt), held together by two metal entities [trans-(NH3)2PtII and trans-(MeNH2)2PtII] and multiple H bond interactions, is presented.
Cisplatin has been used to treat various types of cancers for over 30 years, ::: however, a number of serious side-effects of cisplatin have stimulated the quest for ::: other metal-based anticancer agents. Iridium complexes are generally thought to be ::: too inert to possess high reactivity, and therefore, there are only a few previous ::: reports of the antitumour activity of iridium complexes. ::: In this thesis a wide range of organometallic IrIII cyclopentadienyl complexes of ::: the type [(η5-Cpx)Ir(XY)Cl]0/+ (where Cpx = pentamethylcyclopentadienyl (Cp*), ::: tetramethyl(phenyl)cyclopentadienyl (Cpxph) or tetramethyl(biphenyl)cyclopentadienyl ::: (Cpxbiph), XY = N,N-, N,O- or C^N-chelating ligand) has been synthesised ::: and characterised. All the complexes hydrolyse rapidly in aqueous solution. ::: Complexes with N,N-chelating ligands readily form adducts with 9-ethylguanine ::: but not 9-ethyladenine; C^N- or N,O-chelated complexes bind to both purines. ::: Guanine residues are preferential binding sites for 1,10-phenanthroline complexes ::: on plasmid DNA. Replacement of the neutral N,N-bound chelating ligand by the ::: negatively-charged C,N-bound analogues can improve biological activity. In ::: addition, cytotoxic potency towards A2780 human ovarian cancer cells increases ::: with phenyl substitution on Cp*: Cpxbiph > Cpxph > Cp*. This can be rationalised by ::: increased hydrophobicity with more extended phenyl ring, resulting in increased ::: cellular uptake and increased intercalative ability. Notably, several complexes ::: exhibited submicromolar anticancer activity. ::: The interconversion of 1,4-NADH and NAD+ through hydride-transfer reactions ::: in the presence of cyclopentadienyl IrIII aqua complexes was studied. It is shown ::: that the IrIII aqua complexes not only converts NAD+ to 1,4-NADH using formate ::: as the hydride source, but can also catalyse the reverse reaction with hydride ::: donation from 1,4-NADH to a iridium centre, recovered by protonation of bound ::: hydride with generation of H2. ::: This work demonstrates how the aqueous chemistry, nucleobase binding and ::: anticancer activity of the IrIII cyclopentadienyl complexes can be controlled and ::: fine-tuned by the modification of the chelating and cyclopentadienyl ligands. The ::: results suggest that this new class of organometalic Ir(III) complexes is well suited ::: for development as anticancer agents.
The Lesch-Nyhan syndrome results from a complete or virtually complete deficiency of the purine salvage enzyme, hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyl transferase (HPRT). The disease is characterized by hyperuricemia, choreoathetosis, spasticity, compulsive self-mutilation, and mental retardation. Patients with a partial deficiency of HPRT are spared most of the neurological disorder of Lesch-Nyhan syndrome. The specific relationship between HPRT deficiency and the neurological dysfunction in the Lesch-Nyhan syndrome is not known, at present. The genetic lesion which result in HPRT deficiency are heterogeneous. About 90 different mutations were found in over 110 families. The DNA-based mutation detection technique can be used for the diagnosis of affected males and for the determination of carrier status of asymptomatic females. This technique is also applicable for the prenatal diagnosis for Lesch-Nyhan syndrome. Transgenic mice, deficient in HPRT activity, have been obtained but they do not show any neurological dysfunction. After administration of 9-ethyladenine, however, they showed the self-injury behavior.
Evidence, obtained in rodent and primate models of Parkinson's disease (PD) and in preliminary clinical trials, indicates that adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonists might represent a promising non-dopaminergic therapeutic tool for the treatment of PD. Recently, we have reported the biological evaluation of 8-substituted 9-ethyladenines (ANR) as new A(2A) receptor antagonists, three of which (ANR 82, ANR 94, and ANR 152) showed high efficacy in in vivo models for Parkinson's. Understanding the metabolic pathways of new drug candidates is an important aspect of drug discovery. The ANR compounds have been investigated in order to clarify their activity on rat liver microsomes, and more specifically on recombinant human cytochrome P450 2D6 (CYP2D6). The metabolites of all three compounds were detected by liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). The results indicate that this class of 9-ethyladenines is metabolized only to a fraction of 1.5-5%. These compounds also act as potent mechanism-based inhibitors of CYP450 and in particular of human isoform CYP2D6. Kinetic-analysis of enzyme inactivation was used to describe the effect of these time-dependent inhibitors and to derive the inhibition parameters K(inact) and K(i) defined with respect to the O-demethylation of dextromethorphan.
Alkynyl chains in the 8 position of adenosine comprise a very selective ligand for the A 3 receptor subtype. Thus, it is possible to modulate the activity at the adenosine receptor subtype by introduction of alkynyl chains in either the 2 or 8 positions of 9-ethyladenine (Volpini et al. 2001 . 8-Substituted 2-alkynyl-N9-propynyladenine derivatives were found to antagonize the receptor and may be effective in the treatment of Parkinson's disease (Endo et al. 2014; Ivachtchenko et al. 2013 ). 2-Propynyladenosinyl phenyl ether compositions as A 2A receptor agonists stimulate mammalian coronary vasodilatation and can be useful as therapeutics for coronary artery disease (Zablocki et al. 2001) .
Abstract The design and synthesis of a novel tricyclic scaffold for the modular assembly of receptor models and other molecular devices is described. Its structural features are exemplified by the preparation of a simple molecular tweezer for 9-ethyladenine.
Rebek imides (3), formed from Kemp's triacid, were developed in the mid-1980's as model receptors for adenine derivatives. We report here the first account of their hydrogen-bonding preferences upon binding 9-ethyladenine (1a) in the solid state. Structural analysis begins with simple imides 3a-e that form discrete dimers, while bis-imide 4 forms ribbon-like structures in the crystalline phase. The hydrogen-bonding interface within each of the representative assemblies features short intermolecular N(3)imide...O(8*)imide* distances (ca. 2.95 A), indicative of two-point hydrogen bonding. Imides 3f-h could be co-crystallized with 1a; single-crystal X-ray analysis of the resulting complexes reveals hydrogen-bonding geometries nearly identical to those observed in nucleobase complexes of adenine and pyrimidine derivatives. Imides 3f and 3g form 2:1 ternary assemblies with 1a; the complex of the former, (3f)2 x 1a, displays both Watson-Crick- and Hoogsteen-type hydrogen bonding, whereas the complex of the latter, (3g)2 x 1a, shows the Hoogsteen motif and imide hydrogen bonding to N(3) of the purine base (N(3)adenine...N(3'')imide = 3.07(1) A). Imide 3h forms a 1:1 complex with 1a (3h x 1a x CHCl3) and displays Hoogsteen binding exclusively. All of the 3 x 1a assemblies show C(adenine)...O(imide) distances (3.38-3.75 A) that are consistent with C-H...O hydrogen bonding. Base-pairing preferences for the Rebek imides are further explored in solution by 1H NMR one-dimensional NOE experiments and by computational means; in all cases the Hoogsteen motif is modestly favored relative to its Watson-Crick counterpart.
To induce “molecular memory” in a membrane substrate at the same time that the membrane was prepared from its polymer solution, an alternative molecular imprinting technique was applied. Upon membrane formation, a “molecular memory” of the imprint molecule is retained by the formed membrane that recognizes or favors interaction with print molecule analogues. In the present study, polystyrene resin bearing a tetrapeptide derivative, a derivative of natural polymer, and an entirely non-chiral synthetic polymer were adopted as candidate materials to form molecular recognition sites. 9-Ethyladenine was adopted as a print molecule. These molecularly imprinted polymeric membranes recognized and adsorbed adenosine (As), which is an analogue of the print molecule, in preference to guanosine (Gs) from As/Gs mixtures. However Gs was permeated in preference to As contrary to adsorption selectivity, possibly because of the relatively high affinity between As and the membrane.
Requests for reprints should be sent to H. Zehner, In stitut für Biophysik und physikalische Biochemie, Fach bereich Biologie, Universität Regensburg, Postfach 397, D-8400 Regensburg. radicals in single crystals of 9-methyladenine and 9-ethyladenine. It will be concluded that the ob served relative concentrations of both H-addition radicals in adenine derivatives crystals depend prin cipally on two factors: the preferred site of attack on the adenine base, which in turn depends on the protonation state of the ring, and the differential stability of the produced radicals in the crystalline environment. 
The four adenosine receptor subtypes have been stably transfected into Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells allowing for comparative studies in a similar cellular background, using radioligand binding studies (A 1 , A 2A , A 3 ) or adenylyl cyclase activity assays (A 2B ). We are currently using the transfected CHO cells for extensive screening of nucleosides and purine derivatives of our library. Screening of a number of 2-alkynyl analogs of 5' -N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine (NECA) indicated that introduction of particular substituents, such as the racemic 2-phenylhydroxypropynyl group, led to a highly potent, nonselective agonist at A 1 , A 2A , and A 3 subtypes (PHPNECA, K i in the low nanomolar range at the three subtypes). In the A 2B functional assay, it has been found that PHPNECA (EC 50 A 2B = 0.88 μM) is threefold more potent than NECA. This article is the first report in which the introduction of a bulky group in the 2-position of NECA led to a compound that is active as an agonist at the human A 2B subtype. On the other hand, the presence of a phenyl ring conjugated to the triple bond as in phenylethynylNECA (PENECA) enhanced selectivity for the A 3 subtype. In the purine series (potential antagonists), 8-bromo-9-ethyladenine (8-BEA) showed good affinity toward all adenosine receptor subtypes (K i A 1 = 0.28 μM, K i A 2A = 0.052 μM, K i A 2B = 0.84 μM, K i A 3 = 27.8 μM). On the other hand, the introduction of alkynyl chains in the 8-position resulted in an increased affinity at the A 3 receptor (8-hexynyl-9-ethyladenine, 8-H EEA, K i A 3 = 0.62 μM and 8-phenylethynyl-9-ethyladenine, 8-PEEA, K i A 3 = 0.086 μM).
A molecularly imprinted polymer (MIP) comprising 9-ethyladenine was polymerized in situ inside the capillary for the electrochromatographic separation of nucleotide bases. The capillary wall was first functionalized with 3-trimethoxysilylpropyl methacrylate (10% v/v) and 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (0.01% w/v) in toluene. Following this treatment, the capillary was filled with acetonitrile containing 9-ethyladenine, methacrylic acid, ethylene glycol dimethacrylate, and initiator. After polymerization, the MIP was shrunk into a film against the inner wall of the capillary with the syringe pump. The template was then removed with methanol under nitrogen flow. For evaluation the feasibility of the MIP column for the separation of nucleotide bases, some parameters including the pH, concentration of the background electrolyte, the applied voltage as well as the effect of organic modifier were studied. The migration behavior of nucleotide bases on the MIP column was also compared with that on the bare fused-silica column. The results indicated that the MIP columns demonstrated better recognition properties at a pH range of 6-8. The efficiency (plates/m) at pH 8 for the nonimprinted analyte was 75,300 for cytosine, 50,200 for thymine, and 14,800 for guanine. However, the efficiency for the imprinted analyte, adenine, was quite low. This was evidenced by the broad peak, yielding only 2600 plates/m.
Specific binding of diphenylhydantoin and other substituted hydantoins to 9-ethyladenine was demonstrated using proton magnetic resonance and infrared spectroscopy. Downfield resonance shifts of the N-1 and N-3 protons of diphenylhydantoin occurred upon mixing with 9-ethyladenine in dimethyl sulfoxide, whereas no such resonance shift occurred upon the addition of 9-ethylguanine in this solvent. Chemical shifts of the exchangeable protons in deuterochloroform solutions of 9-ethyladenine with 1,5,5-trimethylhydantoin or 3,5,5-trimethylhydantoin are characteristic of a hydrogen-bonded cyclic interaction; this interaction involves one of the three -NH-CO-sites available on the hydantoin nucleus in a 1:1 complex with the acceptor-donor sites on 9-ethyladenine. By measuring the change in intensity of the adenine NH (antisymmetrical) monomer band in the normal infrared region, association constants [ Kxy , M-1] were estimated for the interaction (in deuterochloroform) of 9-ethyladenine with the given hydantoin: 5,5-dimethylhydantoin, 63; 1,5,5-trimethylhydantoin, 16; 3,5,5-trimethylhydantoin, 2.7; 5,5-diphenylhydantoin, 178; 5-ethyl-1-methyl-5-phenylhydantoin, 179; 5-ethyl-3-methyl-5-phenylhydantoin, 5.4; 3-ethyl-5-phenylhydantoin, 2.6; and 3-methyl-5,5-diphenylhydantoin, 5.1. ::: ::: ACKNOWLEDGMENTS We thank Dr. A. D. Broom and R. Snow for their assistance with the NMR spectroscopy, and Dr. Donald J. Lyman for making available for our use the Perkin-Elmer 521 infrared spectrophotometer.
The crystal structure of a 1: 1 complex of 9-ethyladenine and indole has been determined by the X-ray method. The crystal system is monoclinic with the space group of P21/c. The cell dimensions are a=15.712(2), b=8.098(1), c=11.838(1)A, and β=103.90(1)°C. Adenines form walls made of double layer. An overlap of adenines is found between layers. The adenine molecule in the front layer is found to be joined by the hydrogen bond with the molecule in the back layer. An intermolecular hydrogen bond is found between adenine and indole rings. The significance of these observations in the interaction of adenine with tryptophan in biological systems is discussed.
Abstract The synthesis and binding properties of a molecular cleft for adenine recognition based on a new hydroxyimide scaffold is described. NMR titration experiments in various solvents as well as isothermal titration calorimetry results are presented which demonstrate that, in chloroform, the cleft gives association constants for 9-ethyladenine that are 20 times greater than for the corresponding cleft derived from Kemp's triacid.
Abstract A brief account of the historical development of molecular imprinting introduces the connection between materials properties and recognition in molecularly imprinted polymers (MIPs). Polymers imprinted with DNA derivatives were investigated to understand the underlying principles governing the design, synthesis and application of imprinted polymer materials. A survey of 9-ethyladenine (9EA) imprinted polymers revealed an optimum mol% of cross-linking monomer to be in the range 70–80%, due to a balance of pre-polymer complexation and restriction of random polymer chain motion. MIPs to 9-ethyladenine using different porogens determined that binding site fidelity is best preserved when rebinding solvent matches the porogen. Colder temperatures and initiator concentration of 1 mol% or higher also improve the performance of 9EA imprinted polymers. All nucleosides were imprinted, revealing that only those with the 2-aminopyridine substructure show binding affinity and selectivity. Last, polymer complements to an adenine dimer and tetramer showed selectivity for the dimer, however, the tetramer exhibited little affinity for any imprinted or control polymers. If the lack of binding exhibited by the tetramer is due to size effects, this would set the upper limit of molecular size for molecular imprinting at approximately 20–30 A.
The ultraviolet absorption band of a complex between 9-ethyladenine and ∈-caprolactam has been observed at a wavelength longer than that of the absorption band for the 9-ethyladenine monomer. Absorbance values (at 277.5 mμ) of solutions that contained 9-ethyladenine and different concentrations of ∈-caprolactam in cyclohexane were determined at different temperatures. Linear plots were utilized to determine the apparent association constant (K′ ) of the 9-ethyladenine-caprolactam complex over the range of 25° to 60°. The K′ values for the complex of 4-aminopyrimidine and ∈-caprolactam were determined for the same temperature range from the absorbance of cyclohexane solutions at 282.5 mμ. The K' values of the two complexes are the same at 25°, but ∈-caprolactam is more strongly bonded to 9-ethyladenine than to 4-aminopyrimidine at elevated temperatures. The synthesis of 4-amino-1-ethylbenzimidazole hydro-chloride was performed. An attempt to detect a complex between ∈-caprolactam and 4-amino-1-ethylbenzimidazole in a cyclohexane solution was not successful.
Crosslinking of three different model nucleobases (9-ethyladenine, 9-EtA; 9-ethylguanine, 9-EtGH; 1-methyluracil, 1-MeU) by two linear trans-a2PtII (a= NH3 or CH3NH2) entities leads to a flat metal-modified base triplet, trans,trans-[(NH3)2Pt(1-MeU-N3)(μ-9-EtA-N7,N1)Pt(CH3NH2)2(9-EtGH-N7)]3+ (4 b). Upon hemideprotonation of the 9-ethylguanine base at the N1 position, 4 b spontaneously dimerizes to the metalated nucleobase sextet 5, [(4 b)≡(4 b-H)]5+. In this dimeric structure a neutral and an anionic guanine ligand, which are complementary to each other, are joined through three H bonds and additionally by two H bonds between guanine and uracil nucleobases. Four additional interbase H bonds maintain the approximate coplanarity of all six bases. The two base triplets form an exceedingly stable entity (KD=500±150 M−1 in DMSO), which is unprecedented in nucleobase chemistry. The precursor of 4 b and several related complexes are described and their structures and solution properties are reported.
The specific barbituric acid dyes 1-n-butyl-5-(2,4-dinitro-phenyl) barbituric acid and 1-n-butyl-5-{4-[(1,3-dioxo-1H-inden-(3 H)-ylidene)methyl]phenyl}barbituric acid were used to study complex formation with nucleobase derivatives and related model compounds. The enol form of both compounds shows a strong bathochromic shift of the UV/Vis absorption band compared to the rarely coloured keto form. The keto-enol equilibria of the five studied dyes are strongly dependent on the properties of the environment as shown by solvatochromic studies in ionic liquids and a set of organic solvents. Enol form development of the barbituric acid dyes is also associated with alteration of the hydrogen bonding pattern from the ADA to the DDA type (A=hydrogen bond acceptor site, D=donor site). Receptor-induced altering of ADA towards DDA hydrogen bonding patterns of the chromophores are utilised to study supramolecular complex formation. As complementary receptors 9-ethyladenine, 1-n-butylcytosine, 1-n-butylthymine, 9-ethylguanidine and 2,6-diacetamidopiridine were used. The UV/Vis spectroscopic response of acid-base reaction compared to supramolecular complex formation is evaluated by (1)H NMR titration experiments and X-ray crystal structure analyses. An increased acidity of the barbituric acid derivative promotes genuine salt formation. In contrast, supramolecular complex formation is preferred for the weaker acidic barbituric acid.
Abstract EDAMURA K., AND H. SASAI. No self-injurious behavior was found in HPRT-deficient mice treated with 9-ethyladenine. PHARMACOL BIOCHEM BEHAV 61 (2) 175–179, 1998.—It has been reported that 9-ethyladenine (9-EA) is an efficient inhibitor of APRT (adenine phosphoribosyltransferase) and that its administration causes self-injurious behavior (Lesch-Nyhan Syndrome–like symptoms) in HPRT (hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase)-deficient mice. In contrast, we found neither any self-injurious behavior (SIB), such as visible injury or hair loss, nor any apparent decrease in APRT activity in HPRT-defecient mice treated with 9-EA. We also found that 9-EA has little irreversible or competitive inhibitory effect on APRT in vitro, even at a concentration of 10 −2 M. In light of the negative finding of SIB in APRT/HPRT double-deficient mice, it seems unlikely that SIB in HPRT-deficient mice is caused by lowered APRT activity. It is concluded that 9-EA is not a sufficient APRT inhibitor and cannot be used in experiments that mimic lowered APRT status in an animal model.
Treatment of [(η 5 -C 5 Me 5 )Ir(H 2 O) 3 ](CF 3 SO 3 ) 2 with adenine (AH) and 9-ethyladenine (9-EtA) affords the respective tetra- and trinuclear complexes [{(η 5 -C 5 Me 5 )Ir(A)} 4 ](CF 3 SO 3 ) 4 ( 1 ) and [{(η 5 -C 5 Me 5 )Ir(9-EtAH −1 )} 3 ](CF 3 SO 3 ) 3 ( 2 ), whose structures were established by X-ray analysis. The former compound exhibits a μ-1κ N 9 :2κ 2 N 6 , N 7 coordination mode for the bridging adeninate ligands, the latter a μ-1κ N 1 :2κ 2 N 6 , N 7 binding pattern, associated with a wide IrN7C8 angle of 149° and substantial respectively upfield ( δ 7.65) and downfield ( δ 8.82) shifts for the purine ring protons H2 and H8. Exclusive formation of analogous diastereomeric trimers is likewise observed in the pH* range 3.5–9.0 for equimolar equilibrium systems of [(η 5 -C 5 Me 5 )Ir(H 2 O) 3 ] 2+ with 5′-AMP 2− and 5′-ATP 4− . Reaction of this organometallic fragment with guanine (GH) and hypoxanthine (HxH) also provides tetramers [{(η 5 -C 5 Me 5 )Ir(B)(H 2 O)} 4 ](CF 3 SO 3 ) 4 3 (B=G) and 4 (B=Hx) in which, however, O6 only participates in outer-sphere coordination through O6⋯H–O interactions to the water ligand. The μ- N 7 , N 9 coordination mode in 3 and the analogous complex [{(η 6 -C 6 H 6 )Ru(Hx)(H 2 O)} 4 ](CF 3 SO 3 ) 4 ( 5 ) was confirmed by X-ray analysis. Two cyclic (presumably trimeric) oligomers with respectively μ-1κ N 9 :2κ 2 O 6 , N 7 and μ-1κ N 1 :2κ 2 N 7 , O (H 2 O) binding patterns are present at an approximately 1:1 ratio in weakly acid equimolar equilibrium systems of [(η 5 -C 5 Me 5 )Ir(H 2 O) 3 ] 2+ with 5′-IMP 2− and 5′-ITP 4− . Phosphate coordination is absent for this fragment in the presence of purine nucleoside 5′-triphosphates, in striking contrast to (η 6 -C 6 H 6 )Ru(II) and (η 5 -C 5 Me 5 )Rh(III), whose pH-dependent reaction behaviour is reported for comparison purposes.
The A2A adenosine receptor (A2A AR) is a key target for the development of pharmacological tools for the treatment of central nervous system disorders. Previous works have demonstrated that the insertion of substituents at various positions on adenine leads to A2A AR antagonists with affinity in the micromolar to nanomolar range. In this work, a series of 9-ethyladenine derivatives bearing phenylalkylamino, phenylakyloxy or phenylakylthio groups of different lengths at the 2-position were synthesised and tested against the human adenosine receptors. The derivatives showed sub-micromolar affinity for these membrane proteins. The further introduction of a bromine atom at the 8-position has the effect of improving the affinity and selectivity for all ARs and led to compounds that are able bind to the A2A AR subtype at low nanomolar levels. Functional studies confirmed that the new adenine derivatives behave as A2A AR antagonists with half-maximal inhibitory concentration values in the nanomolar range. Molecular modelling studies provide a description of the possible binding mode of these compounds at the A2A AR and an interpretation of the affinity data at this AR subtype.
[2] As a consequence, a number of medicinal chemistry and pharmacology studies on AR ligands have been reported by industry or academic research groups, which have led to the discovery and development of compounds with potential applications as drugs. The A 2A AR is the target subtype for which the first AR ligand has been approved for market (the selective agonist Regadenoson, commercialised as Lexiscan by the Astellas Pharma Company, for myocardial perfusion imaging). [3] This protein is of particular interest for its roles in the CNS and in neurodegenerative disorders, that is, Parkinson's disease, and selective antagonists of the A 2A AR are currently being developed for therapeutic applications. The recent approval for manufacturing and marketing of the A 2A AR selective antagonist Istradefylline by Nouriast, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd., in Japan represents the first authorisation to the market of an AR antagonist as an anti-parkinsonian agent. [4] In many papers, we have described the effect of the introduction of substituents at the 2-, 8-and 9-position on the adenine scaffold for the affinity and selectivity of the four AR subtypes. [5] In particular, the substitution of the ribose moiety of the natural agonist Ado with an ethyl group leads to the compound 9-ethyladenine, which behaves as an AR antagonist endowed with micromolar affinity for the human A 1 and A 2A AR subtypes (inhibition constants K i A 1 = 7 440 nm, K i A 2A = 2 200 nm). However, this molecule is not able to bind the A 2B and A 3 ARs at concentrations up to 100 mm. Further modification by introduction of a bromine atom in the 8-position of this molecule led to 8-bromo-9-ethyladenine, a compound that shows enhanced affinity at all receptor subtypes. This compound behaves as an A 2A AR receptor antagonist and is endowed with moderate selectivity, especially against the A 1 AR subtype.
[5g] From investigation of the other positions of the purine core, it was found that the presence of a hindered phenethylamino or a phenylethyloxy group in the 2-position of 9-ethyladenine favours the interaction of the reThe A 2A adenosine receptor (A 2A AR) is a key target for the development of pharmacological tools for the treatment of central nervous system disorders. Previous works have demonstrated that the insertion of substituents at various positions on adenine leads to A 2A AR antagonists with affinity in the micromolar to nanomolar range. In this work, a series of 9-ethyladenine derivatives bearing phenylalkylamino, phenylakyloxy or phenylakylthio groups of different lengths at the 2-position were synthesised and tested against the human adenosine receptors. The derivatives showed sub-micromolar affinity for these membrane proteins. The further introduction of a bromine atom at the 8-position has the effect of improving the affinity and selectivity for all ARs and led to compounds that are able bind to the A 2A AR subtype at low nanomolar levels. Functional studies confirmed that the new adenine derivatives behave as A 2A AR antagonists with half-maximal inhibitory concentration values in the nanomolar range. Molecular modelling studies provide a description of the possible binding mode of these compounds at the A 2A AR and an interpretation of the affinity data at this AR subtype.
[5d] Furthermore, a study on AR agonists showed that the introduction of arylalkylthio groups in the 2-position of Ado leads to compounds presenting nanomolar affinity for the ARs with a fair selectivity for the A 2A AR. [6] We also recently reported a series of 2-alkylamino-substituted 9-propyladenine derivatives that showed that the different length of the alkyl spacer (methyl to propyl) within the substituent at the 2-position has the effect to modulate the affinity for the different AR subtypes. [7] On this basis, in the search for novel A 2A AR antagonists, we designed and synthesised compounds 4-9 and 11-20, which consist of 9-ethyladenine and 8-bromo-9-ethyladenine analogues bearing, in the 2-position, phenylalkylamino, phenylakyloxy or phenylakylthio groups of various lengths and flexibilities (Schemes 1-4, Table 1 below). The new compounds were tested in binding assays with human recombinant A 1 , A 2A and A 3 ARs and in a functional cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) assay with the human recombinant A 2B AR. Functional studies with the GloSensor cAMP assay were performed to assess the antagonist profile of selected synthesised derivatives. Furthermore, molecular modelling studies were performed to interpret and explain the affinity of the newly synthesised adenine derivatives at the A 2A AR.
Abstract The association constant, K A − U , for the 1:1 hydrogen-bonded complex of 9-ethyladenine and 1-cyclohexyluracil in [2H]chloroform at 25°C has been measured by infrared to be 96.1 M−1 at both 3527 and 3414 cm−1. Bromine substitution at C8 of the adenine derivative increases the self-association constant, K BrA − BrA , to 13.1 M−1 over that for 9-ethyladenine, K A − A = 3.1 M −1 . The resonance forms of 8-bromo-9-ethyladenine favor hydrogen bonding at N7, giving a dimer structure consistent with X-ray results. Its constant for association with 1-cyclohexyluracil, K BrA − U , has the low value of 46.4 M−1, because of steric hindrance which limits the dimer to the Watson—Crick form.
There are several different types of adenosine receptors found in the brain and molecules capable of interact - ing with the adenine ring system may have an effect on brain activity. Phenobarbital and diphenylhydantoin, two com- monly used antiepileptic drugs have been shown to form hydrogen bonded complexes with adenine derivatives. Although 5,5-diphenylbarbituric acid has anticonvulsant properties equivalent to phenobarbital, neither its structure nor possible interactions with adenine have been investigated. 5,5-Diphenylbarbituric acid and 9-ethyladenine were, there - fore, cocrystallized and the three-dimensional 1:1 hydrogen bonded complex was determined by X-ray diffraction. The crystals are monoclinic, C2/c, a = 28.457(9), b = 10.633(3), c = 13.995(4) A, β = 100.20(2)°, Z =8 ,R = 0.067 for 1680 reflections with I >3 σ(I). The molecules propagate along the b crystallographic axis in an alternating fashion in which adjacent adenine and barbiturate molecules interact through a pair of hydrogen bonds. Two-fold symmetry related barbiturate carbonyl groups in neighboring planes of hydrogen bonded ribbons are involved in dipole-dipole attractive interactions. This hydrogen bonding pattern is compared to patterns found in other barbiturate-adenine complexes.
Single crystals of the co-crystalline complex of 1-methyl-uracil and 9-ethyladenine were X-irradiated and studied using EPR, ENDOR and FSE spectroscopic techniques at 10 K. All together seven radicals were identified, and experimental evidence for at least one more species, as well as for a very low population of radical pairs, is available. Oxidation and reduction products appear to be stabilized at both base constituents of the pair. Of the 1-methyluracil moiety, the product formed by net hydrogen abstraction from the methyl group was observed, together with the 1-methyluracil anion and the 1-methyluracil-5-yl radical. From the 9-ethyladenine moiety, the N3-protonated 9-ethyladenine anion is stabilized. In addition, the 9-ethyladenine cation as well as traces of the amino-deprotonated cation were observed, together with the C8-H hydrogen adduct. The presence of oxidation and reduction products in each of the two bases may indicate that negligible energy transfer takes place between them. This behavior is different from that observed in the similar pair of 1-methylthymine-9-methyladenine. There also seems to be minor proton exchange between the two stacks of molecules: Interbase protonation-deprotonation channeled through the hydrogen-bonding scheme seems to be almost completely suppressed.
Blocking of Watson-Crick or Hoogsteen edges in purine nucleobases by a metal entity precludes involvement of these sites in interbase hydrogen bonding, thereby leaving the respective other edge or the sugar edge as potential H bonding sites. In mixed guanine, adenine complexes of trans-a2PtII (a = NH3 or CH3NH2) of composition trans-[(NH3)2Pt(9-EtA-N1)(9-MeGH-N7)](NO3)2 (1a), trans-[(NH3)2Pt(9-EtA-N1)(9-MeGH-N7)](ClO4)2 (1b), and trans,trans-[(CH3NH2)2(9-MeGH-N7)Pt(N1-9-MeA-N7)Pt(9-MeGH-N7)(CH3NH2)2](ClO4)4*2H2O (2) (with 9-EtA = 9-ethyladenine, 9-MeA= 9-methyladenine, 9-MeGH = 9-methylguanine), this aspect is studied. Thus, in 1b pairing of two adenine ligands via Hoogsteen edges and in 2 pairing of two guanine bases via sugar edges is realized. These situations are compared with those found in a series of related complexes.
Abstract The formation of hydrogen-bonded complexes between 9-ethyladenine and acetamide in chloroform solution has been studied by infrared spectroscopy. Comparison of the mixed solution spectra with the sum of the spectra of the separate monomers in solution shows that cyclic heterodimers are formed when acetamide binds to adenine base. Information is also obtained about the atomic arrangement of these heterodimers, where acetamide is bound to adenine base predominantly through the pyrimidine ring. Hydrogen bonds of this nature have been also observed for concentrated aqueous solutions of adenosine 5′-monophosphate in the presence of acetamide using Raman spectroscopy.
The synthesis and X-ray structures of a half-sandwich Ru(II)p-cymene beta-diketonato complex as chlorido-, aqua-, 9-ethylguanine- and 9-ethyladenine-adducts are reported. Structural features which contribute to stabilisation of adducts through non-covalent, weak interactions are discussed. The X-ray crystal structure of the cytotoxic complex [(eta(6)-p-cym)Ru(Ph(2)acac)Cl] (1), where Ph(2)acac=1,3-diphenyl-1,3-propanedionate and p-cym=para-cymene, shows that the phenyl rings of the acac-type ligand form a hydrophobic face, conferring lipophilic character on the complex. The structure of the aqua adduct [(eta(6)-p-cym)Ru(Ph(2)acac)H(2)O]CF(3)SO(3).H(2)O.Et(2)O (4.H(2)O.Et(2)O), a possible activated species, possesses a comparatively short Ru-OH(2) bond. In the structure of [(eta(6)-p-cym)Ru(Ph(2)acac)9EtG-N7]CF(3)SO(3).2tol (5.2tol), where tol=toluene and 9EtG=9-ethylguanine, a comparatively long Ru-N7 bond is observed in addition to weak G CH8cdots, three dots, centeredO (Ph(2)acac) H-bonds. The crystal structure of [(eta(6)-p-cym)Ru(acac)9EtA-N7]PF(6) (6), where acac=acetylacetonate and 9EtA=9-ethyladenine, a rare example of a ruthenium complex containing monodentate adenine, shows a strong H-bonding interaction between N6Hcdots, three dots, centeredO(acac), which may contribute to the selectivity of {(eta(6)-p-cym)Ru(acac)}(+) towards adenine bases.
A water-soluble oxacyclophane based upon p-xlylenebis[4-hydroxy-3-car- boxybenzene] and p-xylene units tethered trough an aliphatic chain has been synthesized. The receptor binds selectively to neutral adenine de- rivatives forming an intracavity 1:1 complex. The interaction energies for the complexes range from 7 to 13 kJ mol -1 in alkaline D 2 O. The geometry of the complex between 1(dicarboxylate) and 9-ethyladenine has been mapped out through NMR studies and is also supported by molecular modeling and theoretical AM1 calculations
Abstract 9-Ethyladenine (9-EtAd) reacts with cis -[(PMe 3 ) 2 Pt(μ-OH)] 2 (NO 3 ) 2 in aqueous solution at ambient temperature to give the adduct cis -[(PMe 3 ) 2 Pt(μ-9-EtAd(-H))] 2 (NO 3 ) 2 which has been characterized in the solid state by single-crystal X-ray analysis. The complex crystallizes in the triclinic system, space group P 1 , with a = 10.359(5), b = 11.224(5), c = 21.056(9) A, α= 85.09(3), β= 88.69(4), γ= 83.90(4)°, Z = 2. The structure was solved from 3455 reflections to R = 0.075. The molecular structure of the cationic complex exhibits two cis -(PMe 3 ) 2 Pt units which are bridged by two NH 2 -deprotonated adenine molecules through the N(1) and N(6) atoms (mean Pt-N distance of 2.10 A) in a head-to-tail fashion. The two purine rings are virtually perpendicular (dihedral angle of 101.4°) and each ring forms with the platinum coordination planes angles of 87.6 and 89.3°. The complex has been characterized in solution by 1 H and 31 P NMR spectroscopy. The H(2) and H(8) resonances, which are indistinguishable in the proton spectrum of the free base, appear well differentiated upon platination of the nucleobase, with the H(2) proton coupled to the metal centre ( 3 J (PtH) 15.5 Hz). The presence of long-range platinum-phosphorus interactions in the 31 P spectrum indicates that the dinuclear structure found in the solid state is maintained in solution.
The glutamate metabotropic receptor 5 (mGluR5) and the adenosine A2A receptor (A2A R) represent major non-dopaminergic therapeutic targets in Parkinson's disease (PD) to improve motor symptoms and slow down/revert disease progression. The 6-hydroxydopamine rat model of PD was used to determine/compare the neuroprotective and behavioral impacts of single and combined administration of one mGluR5 antagonist, 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)pyridine (MPEP), and two A2A R antagonists, (E)-phosphoric acid mono-[3-[8-[2-(3-methoxyphenyl)vinyl]-7-methyl-2,6-dioxo-1-prop-2-ynyl-1,2,6,7-tetrahydropurin-3-yl]propyl] (MSX-3) and 8-ethoxy-9-ethyladenine (ANR 94). Chronic treatment with MPEP or MSX-3 alone, but not with ANR 94, reduced the toxin-induced loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta. Combining MSX-3 and MPEP further improved the neuroprotective effect of either antagonists. At the behavioral level, ANR 94 and MSX-3 given alone significantly potentiated L-DOPA-induced turning behavior. Combination of either A2A R antagonists with MPEP synergistically increased L-DOPA-induced turning. This effect was dose-dependent and required subthreshold drug concentration, which per se had no motor stimulating effect. Our findings suggest that co-treatment with A2A R and mGluR5 antagonists provides better therapeutic benefits than those produced by either drug alone. Our study sheds some light on the efficacy and advantages of combined non-dopaminergic PD treatment using low drug concentration and establishes the basis for in-depth studies to identify optimal doses at which these drugs reach highest efficacy. Combined treatment with low concentrations of known adenosine A2A receptor (A2A R) and metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR5) antagonists results in a therapeutic benefit and provides better results than those produced by either drug given alone, both in terms of motor performance and neuroprotection. Future trials should involve careful optimization of drug combinations and concentrations that may avoid the emergence of debilitating side effects and slow-down/revert disease progression.
The glutamate metabotropic receptor 5 (mGluR5) and the adenosine A 2A receptor (A 2A R) represent major non-dopaminergic therapeutic targets in Parkinson's disease (PD) to improve motor symptoms and slow down/revert disease progression. The 6-hydroxydopamine rat model of PD was used to determine/ compare the neuroprotective and behavioral impacts of single and combined administration of one mGluR5 antagonist, 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)pyridine (MPEP), and two A 2A R antagonists, (E)-phosphoric acid mono- [3-[8-[2-(3-methoxyphenyl) vinyl]-7-methyl-2,6-dioxo-1-prop-2-ynyl-1,2,6,7-tetrahydropurin-3-yl]propyl] (MSX-3) and 8-ethoxy-9-ethyladenine (ANR 94). Chronic treatment with MPEP or MSX-3 alone, but not with ANR 94, reduced the toxin-induced loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta. Combining MSX-3 and MPEP further improved the neuroprotective effect of either antagonists. At the behavioral level, ANR 94 and MSX-3 given alone significantly potentiated L-DOPA-induced turning behavior. Combination of either A 2A R antagonists with MPEP synergistically increased L-DOPA-induced turning. This effect was dosedependent and required subthreshold drug concentration, which per se had no motor stimulating effect. Our findings suggest that co-treatment with A 2A R and mGluR5 antagonists provides better therapeutic benefits than those produced by either drug alone. Our study sheds some light on the efficacy and advantages of combined non-dopaminergic PD treatment using low drug concentration and establishes the basis for in-depth studies to identify optimal doses at which these drugs reach highest efficacy.
High resolution proton magnetic resonance measurements provide evidence for the formation of hydrogen-bonded complexes between 9-ethyladenine and p-cresol used as a model of tyrosine side chain in CDCl3. We have calculated the sum of the association constants corresponding to the three existing 1:1 complexes: K=6.3+/-0.15. By methylation of the amino group of adenine, we were able to calculate the ratio of the two strongest equilibrium constants K7/K1=1.6+/-0.3. Theoretical computations by the complete neglect of differential overlap (CNDO/2) method indicate that several hydrogen-bonded planar complexes can form between 9-methyladenine and phenol. The computed energy of the complexes with 6-dimethylamino adenine removes some ambiguity concerning the computed ratio of the association constants. Comparison of the calculated energies with free energies experimentally determined in organic solvent shows that despite the competition with CDCl3, which associates with both solute molecules, the preferential order of association is conserved. The small variations of charge density of adenine carbon atoms when complexed with phenol are in agreement with very small chemical shifts observed by 13C-nuclear magnetic resonance.
Of the numerous ways in which two adenine and two guanines (N9 positions blocked in each) can be cross-linked by three linear metal moieties such as trans-a2 Pt(II) (with a=NH3 or MeNH2 ) to produce open metalated purine quartets with exclusive metal coordination through N1 and N7 sites, one linkage isomer was studied in detail. The isomer trans,trans,trans-[{Pt(NH3 )2 (N7-9-EtA-N1)2 }{Pt(MeNH2 )2 (N7-9-MeGH)}2 ][(ClO4 )6 ]⋅3H2 O (1) (with 9-EtA=9-ethyladenine and 9-MeGH=9-methylguanine) was crystallized from water and found to adopt a flat Z-shape in the solid state as far as the trinuclear cation is concerned. In the presence of excess 9-MeGH, a meander-like construct, trans,trans,trans-[{Pt(NH3 )2 (N7-9-EtA-N1)2 }{Pt(MeNH2 )2 (N7-9-MeGH)2 }][(ClO4 )6 ]⋅[(9-MeGH)2 ]⋅7 H2 O (2) is formed, in which the two extra 9-MeGH nucleobases are hydrogen bonded to the two terminal platinated guanine ligands of 1. Compound 1, and likewise the analogous complex 1 a (with NH3 ligands only), undergo loss of an ammonia ligand and formation of NH4 (+) when dissolved in [D6 ]DMSO. From the analogy between the behavior of 1 and 1 a it is concluded that a NH3 ligand from the central Pt atom is lost. Addition of 1-methylcytosine (1-MeC) to such a DMSO solution reveals coordination of 1-MeC to the central Pt. In an analogous manner, 9-MeGH can coordinate to the central Pt in [D6 ]DMSO. It is proposed that the proton responsible for formation of NH4 (+) is from one of the exocyclic amino groups of the two adenine bases, and furthermore, that this process is accompanied by a conformational change of the cation from Z-form to U-form. DFT calculations confirm the proposed mechanism and shed light on possible pathways of this process. Calculations show that rotational isomerism is not kinetically hindered and that it would preferably occur previous to the displacement of NH3 by DMSO. This displacement is the most energetically costly step, but it is compensated by the proton transfer to NH3 and formation of U(-H(+) ) species, which exhibits an intramolecular hydrogen bond between the deprotonated N6H(-) of one adenine and the N6H2 group of the other adenine. Finally the question is examined, how metal cross-linking patterns in closed metallacyclic quartets containing two adenine and two guanine nucleobases influence the overall shape (square, rectangle, trapezoid) and the planarity of a metalated purine quartet.
The 8-substituted 9-ethyladenine derivatives: 8-bromo-9-ethyladenine (ANR 82), 8-ethoxy- 9-ethyladenine (ANR 94), and 8-furyl-9-ethyladenine (ANR 152) have been characterized in vitro as adenosine receptor antagonists. Adenosine is deeply involved in the control of motor behaviour and substantial evidences indicate that adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonists improve motor deficits in animal models of Parkinson's disease. On this basis, the efficacy of ANR 82, ANR 94, and ANR 152 in rat models of Parkinson's disease was evaluated. All compounds tested reversed the catalepsy induced by haloperidol. However, in unilaterally 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats, only ANR 94 and ANR 152 potentiated l-dihydroxy-phenylalanine (l-DOPA) effect on turning behaviour and induced contralateral turning behaviour in rats sensitised to l-DOPA. Taken together the results of this study indicate that some 8-substituted 9-ethyladenine derivatives ameliorate motor deficits in rat models of Parkinson's disease, suggesting a potential therapeutic role of these compounds.
The discovery of new drugs for the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders, such as Parkinson's disease, has become an attractive field of research. Due to the regulation of D 2 receptor activity by A 2 A adenosine receptor, potent and selective ligands of A 2 A subtype could be useful tools to study neurodegenerative disorders. A series of 2,8-disubstituted-9-ethyladenine derivatives was synthesized and tested in binding affinity assay at human adenosine receptors. New compounds showed good affinity and selectivity at A 2 A receptor versus the other subtypes. The introduction of a bromine atom in 8-position increased the affinity of these compounds, leading to ligands with K i in the nanomolar range.
Treatment of 9-ethy-1-(2-hydroxythyl)adenide hydrobromide (1a) in boiling N, N-dimethylformamide (DMF) with an excess of thiourea for 7 h or with an excess of ammonium thiocyanate for 3 h provided 3-ethyl-7, 8-dihydro-3H-imidazo[2, 1-i]purinium thiocyanate (8) in 51% or 58% yield, respectively. On treatment with an excess of triphenyl phosphite in boiling DMF for 20 min, 1 a underwent a similar cyclization to from the same tricycle, which was isolated in 81% yield (from 1 a)in the form of the perchlorate salt (12). A similar treatment of 1 a with triethyl phosphite furnished the 9-ethyl analogue (15) in 83% yield. Conversion of 12 into the free base and oxidation of latter with active MnO2 in boiling CH2Cl2 for 16 h gave 3-ethyl 3-ethyl-3H-imidazo[2, 1-i]purine (13) (66% overall yield from 12), which was identical with a sample synthesized from 9-ethyladenine (9) and chloroacetaldehyde according to the general N6, 1-etheno bridgeing procedure. On treatment with methanolic ammonia at room temperature, the tricycle 15 afforded 9-ethyl-N6-[2-(ethylamino)ethyl]adenine hydrobromide (26) in 79% yield. Mechanisms are proposed for the above intramolecular cyclizations of 1 a caused by the S- and P-atom nucleophiles.
Abstract The association constants for the dimerization of a series of β,β-disubstituted glutarimides, and for the association of these CNS active molecules with 9-ethyladenine, have been measured in chloroform using an infrared method. All of the associations are cyclic and changes in the substituent groups which markedly effect physiological activity do not significantly influence the observed association constants. The results support a possible mode of action for the glutarimides in the respiratory chain, but do not explain their convulsant or anticonvulsant activities.
Dithioether- or diamine-tethered adenine derivatives react with Pt", Pd", and Rh | | | ions to give N3-coordinated complexes of the types [MCI(SSN)] + (M = Pt or Pd), [RhCl 3 (SSN)], or [RhCl 3 (NNN)] (where SSN = 1-(N9-adenine)-3,6-dithia-heptane or 1-(N9-adenine)-4,7-dithia-octane; NNN = ethylenediamine-N,9-ethyladenine). Single-crystal X-ray analysis confirms the nature of the metal-nucleobase interaction and highlights a conserved intermolecular hydrogen-bonding motif for all the complexes, irrespective of the metal-ion geometry. Coordination significantly reduces the basicity of the adeninyl group, as indicated by a pK a value of -0.16 for [PtCl(N3-1-(N9-adenine)-3,6-dithia-heptane)]BF 4 , compared to a pK a value of 4.2 for 9-ethyladenine. The site of proton binding, N1 or N7, could not be unambiguously assigned from the 1 H NMR data, because of the similar effect on the chemical shifts of the H2 and H8 protons. Density functional calculations at the BP-LACVP* level suggest N1 as the site of protonation for this type of complex. This is in contrast to the N7-protonation reported for [Pt(dien)(N3-6,6',9-trimethyladenine)] 2 + , as reported elsewhere (Meiser et al., Chem.-Eur. J. 1997, 3, 388). However, further electronic structure calculations in the gas phase reveal that the preferred site for protonation for N3-bound complexes is conformationally dependent. N3 coordination was also found to reduce the extent of base pairing between adenine and thymine in dimethylsulfoxide for the self-complementary complex [Ptcl(L3)] + (L3 = 1-(N9-adenine)-3,6-dithia-9-(N1-thymine)nonane), compared to that for the uncomplexed ligand.
Adenosine (Ado) is involved in the regulation of many physiological and pathophysiological processes through the activation of four cell membrane receptors termed A1, A2A, A2B and A3, which belong to the family of G-proteins coupled receptors and are ubiquitously expressed in the body. Adenosine receptors (ARs) are present on virtually every tissue and are often co-expressed in the same cell type, and their activation is predominantly responsible for the wide variety of effects produced by adenosine throughout several organ systems. Research on adenosine receptors during the past 20 years has resulted in considerable progress in identifying selective agonists and antagonists and an increased understanding of the particular roles adenosine receptor subtypes play in physiological processes. With this research work new ligands for the ARs have been synthesized and tested on A1, A2A, A2B and A3 subtypes. Hence, in the search for agonists for the A2B AR subtypes, 2-phenylhydroxypropynyl-5’-N-alkylcarboxamidoadenosine derivatives and N6-substituted 2-phenylhyroxypropynyladenosine derivatives were synthesized on the basis that the introduction of a phenylhydroxypropynyl chains in 2-position of Ado derivatives resulted in compounds with reasonably good A2B potency. Adenylyl cyclase assay, performed with cloned human A2B ARs, showed that these modifications did not produce the expected increase of potency at A2B receptors. ::: Furthermore, in the search for A3 AR agonists, the synthesis of 2-phenylethynylAdo derivatives, bearing different substituents in the phenyl ring of the alkynyl chain and a methoxy group in the N6-position, was undertaken on the bases that these modifications are reported to favour the interaction of Ado derivatives with the A3 AR subtype. Selective compounds were also modified in the 4’ position of the sugar moiety by introduction of a methyl or an ethyl carboxamido substituent. ::: The new 2-aralkynyl-N6-methoxyAdo derivatives were found to possess high affinity and in some cases very high selectivity for the human A3 receptor subtype. ::: Finally, based from the observation that the replacement of the sugar moiety in adenosine derivatives with alkyl groups led to adenosine receptor antagonists, in the last part of this work, the ribose moiety of Ado has been substituted with a ethyl group and alkynyl chains were introduced in the 2- and 8- positions, respectively. Binding studies (A1, A2A, A3) and adenylyl cyclase assay (A2B) performed at both human and rat ARs showed that all the synthesized compounds bound the ARs with good affinity. It is worthwhile to note that, in the series of the 2-substituted derivatives, the 2-cyclohexylethynyl-9-ethyladenine and 2-phenylhydrxypropynyl-9-ethyladenine are the ones endowed with the highest affinity at both human and rat A1 and A2A receptors. The same trend has been observed with the 8-substituted derivatives: in fact the 8-phenylethynyl-9-ethyladenine resulted the most active and selective compound at both human and rat A3 subtype. From these results it is possible to conclude that the selectivity of these two series of derivatives for the A1, A2A, and A3 receptor subtypes is strictly correlated to the nature of the alkynyl chain, and that there is a good correlation between the affinity at human and rat receptors.
Abstract A new zinc (II) compound with 9-ethyladenine (9-EtA) of formula [Zn(9-EtA– N7 )Cl 3 ](9-EtAH) has been synthesized and characterized by X-ray diffraction. Its X-structure consists of an Zn(II) anionic complex and 9-ethyladeninium as counteranion. The Zn(II) complex shows a distorted tetrahedral geometry in which three Cl and an 9-EtA coordinates through N(7) position are the ligands. An indirect chelation via intramolecular H-bond between N(6)H and an Cl ligand is present in the complex. The network of [Zn(9-EtA– N7 )Cl 3 ](9-EtAH) shows interesting features. Thus, self-association of coordinated adenine–adeninium takes place by H-bonding of N(6)–H⋯N(1) and N(6)–H⋯N(7), leading to a polymeric ribbon-like 1D supramolecular arrangement. Ab initio calculations have been applied in order to study the stability of the adenine–adeninium interaction due to the coordination of the Zn(II) to the N(7) position and to compare experimental and theoretical structural data.
We reinvestigated the self-association of 9-substituted adenine derivatives in CDCl3 solutions and present the infrared spectra of 9-ethyladenine and N-methyl-9-ethyladenine and its aggregates in the spectral regions between 1500 and 1800 cm(-1) and between 2700 and 3600 cm(-1). Wavelength dependent absolute extinction coefficients of the monomer and dimers are presented on the basis of a simple deconvolution method. Comparison of the deconvoluted dimer spectra with quantum chemical calculations allows for a structural assignment of the two dimer structures that coexist in 9-ethyladenine/CDCl3 solutions. In contrast, the dimer spectrum of N-methyl-9-ethyladenine is dominated by a single isomer.
We reinvestigated the self-association of 9-substituted adenine derivatives in CDCl 3 solutions and present the infrared spectra of 9-ethyladenine and N-methyl-9-ethyladenine and its aggregates in the spectral regions between 1500 and 1800 cm −1 and between 2700 and 3600 cm −1 . Wavelength dependent absolute extinction coefficients of the monomer and dimers are presented on the basis of a simple deconvolution method. Comparison of the deconvoluted dimer spectra with quantum chemical calculations allows for a structural assignment of the two dimer structures that coexist in 9-ethyladenine/CDCl 3 solutions. In contrast, the dimer spectrum of N-methyl-9-ethyladenine is dominated by a single isomer.
Abstract Polysulfone with an oligopeptide derivative of glutamyl residues (PSf-E 5.8 ) was evaluated as a candidate material for molecular recognition. PSf-E 5.8 was prepared from the N -carboxyanhydride of γ-benzyl- l -glutamate (Glu(OBzl)-NCA) initiated by aminomethylated polysulfone (PSf). Films with molecular recognition sites with preference to adenosine (As) were prepared from PSf-E 5.8 by an alternative molecular imprinting method using 9-ethyladenine (9-EA) as a print molecule. The molecular recognition phenomena were studied by surface plasmon resonance (SPR) spectroscopy. The apparent affinity constant of the molecular recognition sites toward As was dependent on the imprinting condition and was increased from 1.30×10 4 to 1.60×10 4 mol −1 dm 3 with the decrease in the molecular imprinting ratio from 1.0 to 0.25. From the present study, it was shown that SPR is a convenient and facile method to detect molecular recognition interactions.
Polysulfone with an oligopeptide derivative of glutamyl residues (PSf-E 5.8 ) was evaluated as a candidate material for molecular recognition. PSf-E 5.8 was prepared from the N-carboxyanhydride of ␥-benzyl-l-glutamate (Glu(OBzl)-NCA) initiated by aminomethylated polysulfone (PSf). Films with molecular recognition sites with preference to adenosine (As) were prepared from PSf-E 5.8 by an alternative molecular imprinting method using 9-ethyladenine (9-EA) as a print molecule. The molecular recognition phenomena were studied by surface plasmon resonance (SPR) spectroscopy. The apparent affinity constant of the molecular recognition sites toward As was dependent on the imprinting condition and was increased from 1.30 × 10 4 to 1.60 × 10 4 mol −1 dm 3 with the decrease in the molecular imprinting ratio from 1.0 to 0.25. From the present study, it was shown that SPR is a convenient and facile method to detect molecular recognition interactions.
Molecular imprinting, which was first proposed by Wulff and Sarhan in 1972 [1] , is now a well-known method for preparing molecular recognition sites by applying a simple radical polymerization [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] . Molecularly imprinted polymers have been applied to stationary phase in chromatography [8, 9] , catalysis [10] , membranes [6, 11] , sensors [4, 7, [12] [13] [14] , and so forth. Since 1994, the authors' research group has proposed an alternative molecular imprinting method in ଝ NRCC publication 46446. * Corresponding author. Tel.: +81-75-7247800; fax: +81-75-7247816. E-mail address: masahiro@ipc.kit.ac.jp (M. Yoshikawa). which polymeric materials are directly converted into molecular recognition materials [15] . By applying this, polymeric materials such as oligopeptide derivatives [16, 17] , natural polymer derivatives [16, 18] , and synthetic polymers [16, [19] [20] [21] [22] [23] [24] were converted into molecular recognition materials, membranes and sensors. Attention was focused on molecularly imprinted materials from oligopeptide derivatives. These derivatives were attached to cross-linked chloromethylated or aminomethylated polystyrene resins used in solid phase peptide synthesis and adopted as materials forming molecular recognition sites. In those cases, each molecular recognition site is constructed from a single strand of oligopeptide in the presence of print molecule [25] . If each site is prepared from multi oligopeptide derivatives, its molecular recognition 0003-2670/$ -see front matter © 2003 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. doi:10.1016/S0003-2670(03)00760-8 ability will be enhanced compared with that from a single strand oligopeptide derivative. Accordingly, a novel material for molecular recognition sites was synthesized from aminomethylated polysulfone (PSf) and their recognition ability was studied by using SPR spectroscopy, in connection with a potential sensor device. In the present study, the nucleic acid component adenosine was adopted as a model target molecule, since recognition of nucleic acid components is of interest and importance in connection with biosensors, drug therapy, genetic engineering, and so forth. Pioneering studies on recognition and transport of nucleic acid components have been investigated by using molecularly imprinted membranes [26] [27] [28] [29] .T o this end, recognition sites towards adenine were constructed by adopting 9-ethyladenine (9-EA) as a print molecule. The recognition of adenosine/guanosine (As/Gs) was studied as a model mixture.
Splitting of the amino proton signals of 9-ethyladenine derivatives was found in proton nuclear magnetic resonance spectra at low temperature (ca. -30 degrees C). One of the separated signals corresponds to the syn amino proton relative to the N(1) nitrogen in the adenine ring and the other to the anti one. The phenomenon is ascribable to slowing down of the hindered rotation around the N(6)-C(6) bond, which has partial double bond character. On the addition of 1-cyclohexyluracil derivatives, one of the separated signals shifts downfield. From the analysis of the concentration dependence of the signals we could estimate the population of two kinds of adenine-uracil (AU) dimers that employ the syn and anti protons, respectively. i.e. the Watson-Crick-type and the Hoogsteen-type dimers. Independent of the substitution on the uracil ring, the Hoogsteen type is predominant at 70% and the Watson-Crick type at 30% (at -56 degrees C). On the other hand, with mixtures of general kinds of 9-ethyladenine derivatives with 1-cyclohexyluracil. the substituents on the adenine ring cause the population to deviate to extreme values; i.e., either the Watson-Crick-type or the Hoogsteen-type dimer predominates. 2-Chloro-9-ethyladenine and N2-(dimethylamino)-9-ethyladenine take almost completely the Hoogsteen-type dimers, while 8-bromo-9-ethyladenine, N2-(methylamino)-9-ethyladenine, and 2-amino-9-ethylpurine predominant in the Watson-Crick-type dimers.
Abstract Treatment of 2′-deoxyadenosine with acrolein at pH 4.6 in 37 °C affords unstable adducts containing either one or two fused ring systems where the hydroxypropano units are derived from acrolein. Since the use of 2′-deoxyadenosine resulted in the creation of at least four diastereoisomers for the adduct made up of two fused rings, therefore, for identification and assignment of the products, 9-ethyladenine was used instead as the starting material in the reaction. The products, 3 E and 4 E , were structurally characterised by UV, mass spectrometry and NMR spectroscopy.
The interaction of benzamide with the isolated components of calf thymus poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase and with liver nuclei has been investigated. A benzamide-agarose affinity gel matrix was prepared by coupling o-aminobenzoic acid with Affi-Gel 10, followed by amidation. The benzamide-agarose matrix bound the DNA that is coenzymic with poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase; the matrix, however, did not bind the purified poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase protein. A highly radioactive derivative of benzamide, the 125I-labelled adduct of o-aminobenzamide and the Bolton-Hunter reagent, was prepared and its binding to liver nuclear DNA, calf thymus DNA and specific coenzymic DNA of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase was compared. The binding of labelled benzamide to coenzymic DNA was several-fold higher than its binding to unfractionated calf thymus DNA. A DNA-related enzyme inhibitory site of benzamide was demonstrated in a reconstructed poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase system, made up from purified enzyme protein and varying concentrations of a synthetic octadeoxynucleotide that serves as coenzyme. As a model for benzamide binding to DNA, a crystalline complex of 9-ethyladenine and benzamide was prepared and its X-ray crystallographic structure was determined; this indicated a specific hydrogen bond between an amide hydrogen atom and N-3 of adenine. The benzamide also formed a hydrogen bond to another benzamide molecule. The aromatic ring of benzamide does not intercalate between ethyladenine molecules, but lies nearly perpendicular to the planes of stacking ethyladenine molecules in a manner reminiscent of the binding of ethidium bromide to polynucleotides. Thus we have identified DNA as a site of binding of benzamide; this binding is critically dependent on the nature of the DNA and is high for coenzymic DNA that is isolated with the purified enzyme as a tightly associated species. A possible model for such binding has been suggested from the structural analysis of a benzamide-ethyladenine complex.
The new cationic complex cis-Rh2(μ-DTolF)2(CH3CN)6][BF4]2 (1) was prepared and reacted with the purine 9-ethyladenine to afford the novel compound cis-[Rh2(μ-DTolF)2(μ-9-EtAH)2(CH3CN)][BF4]2 (2) with two bridging 9-EtAH ligands. The solid-state and solution structures of 1 and 2 have been determined by X-ray crystallography and 1H NMR spectroscopy. Compound 2 represents the first reported dirhodium compound with bridging adenines rather than the expected axially coordinated form.
The association of chloroform-soluble derivatives of uracil and adenine has been examined in chloroform solution in the presence of dissolved water. Analysis by infrared spectroscopy shows that complex formation still occurs in these conditions, and that the extent of association is substantially unchanged by the presence of water. Evidence is presented for the coexistence of two kinds of base pair (involving, respectively, the C2 and C4 carbonyl groups of the pyrimidine) in the solutions, and for some displacement in their relative balance by the added water. The binding of water to the C2 and C4 carbonyl groups can be separately observed in both the free uracil derivative and its 1:1 complex with 9-ethyladenine. Little or no competition has been found to occur between the formation of base pairs and binding of water to the bases, as judged by measurements of water solubility in chloroform solutions of the bases individually and in 1:1 mixtures. The evidence suggests that this phenomenon can be largely explained by the formation of double hydrogen bonds by the uracil carbonyl groups. Taken together with recent published observations, the results indicate that hydrogen bonding may make a much greater energetic contribution to conformational stability of biopolymers in aqueous solution that has been supposed.
A new series of 8-substituted 9-ethyladenine derivatives has been synthesized and tested at rat and human adenosine receptors. Binding data demonstrates that some compounds could represent new tools suitable for in vivo studies in rat models of Parkinson's disease and for the design of new molecules with improved affinity and selectivity at human AA(2A)R.Clinical evidence has demonstrated that AA(2A)R antagonists could be an alternative approach to the treatment of Parkinson's disease. Recently, three 9-ethyladenine derivatives bearing a bromine atom, an ethoxy group, and a furyl ring, respectively, in the 8-position have been reported to ameliorate motor deficits in rat Parkinson's disease models, suggesting a potential therapeutic role for these compounds. Starting from these observations, a new series of 9-ethyladenine derivatives, bearing different substituents such as halogens, alkoxy groups, aromatic and heteroaromatic rings in the 8-position, were synthesized. Radioligand binding assays demonstrated that some of the new compounds bind rat AA(2A)R with higher affinity than the previously reported congeners and that there is a good correlation between binding to rat and human receptors. Hence, the new molecules could represent new tools suitable for the in vivo studies in rat models of Parkinson's disease. Finally, a molecular docking analysis of the compounds was performed using a homology model of rat AA(2A)R, built using the human crystal structure as the template, and results are in agreement with the binding data.
Abstract : The development of synthetic receptors that recognize nucleotide bases and their derivatives is an important area of research 1-3. Applications are envisioned in separation science, biosensors, drug therapy and genetic engineering. Previously in this laboratory, we have developed a molecularly imprinted synthetic receptor for 9-ethyladenine (9-EA). The network polymer has an affinity for adenine and its derivatives with an average association constant (K(a)) of 75,000 M(-1) in CHCl3.
In this work, we report the cocrystallization of N9-ethyladenine with 1,2,4,5-tetrafluoro-3,6-diiodobenzene (TFDIB), a classical XB donor. As far as our knowledge extends, this is the first cocrystal reported to date where an adenine derivative acts as a halogen bond acceptor. In the solid state, each adenine ring forms two centrosymmetric H-bonded dimers: one using N1···HA6–N6 and the other N7···HB6–N6. Therefore, only N3 is available as a halogen bond acceptor that, indeed, establishes an N···I halogen bonding interaction with TFDIB. The H-bonded dimers and halogen bonds have been investigated via DFT (Density Functional Theory) calculations and the Bader’s Quantum Theory of Atoms In Molecules (QTAIM) method at the B3LYP/6-311+G* level of theory. The influence of H-bonding interactions on the lone pair donor ability of N3 has also been analyzed using the molecular electrostatic potential (MEP) surface calculations.
Reactions of nucleic acid bases and related heterocycles 1–5, 18 and 22 with tetra-, tri- and dichloroethylenes 6–9 in hexamethylphosphoric triamide gave the corresponding N-trichloro-, -dichloro- and -chloro- enamines 11–17, 19, 20, 23 and 24 in high regioselectivity (N9 for purines and N1 for pyrimidines). Bases 1, 5, 18, 22 and trichloroethylene 7 gave the respective E-dichloro enamines 15, 16, 20 and 24. Compounds 16 and 20 were identical with the products obtained by addition of bases 1 and 18 to dichloroacetylene. Thymine 18 and compound 7 gave N1,N3-bisdichloro enamine 21 as the major product. The latter exists at room temperature as a mixture of rotamers 28 and 29(ΔG‡≅ 18 kcal mol–1). The reaction of adenine 1 with (Z)-1,2- or 1,1-dichloroethylene 8 or 9 furnished Z-chloro enamine 17 whereas thymine 18 and tetrachloroethylene 6 in dimethyl sulfoxide afforded a reduction product 20. Benzoylation of N9-(trichlorovinyl)adenine 11 gave N6,N6-dibenzoyl derivative 26. The reaction of N1-(dichlorovinyl)cytosine 24 with N,N-dimethylformamide dimethyl acetal afforded amidine 25. Interaction of (E)-N9-(dichlorovinyl)adenine 16 with sodium methoxide gave exclusively E-enamine 27. Trichloro enamines 11–14, 19, 23 and 26 were transformed to ynamines 30–35. Hydrogenation of compounds 30 and 35 furnished N9-ethyladenine 36 and N1-ethylthymine 37. Alkylation of ynamine 30 with acetone 38 gave only carbinol 41 whereas cyclohexanone 39 gave both compound 42 and cyclic ketal 43. The reaction of ynamines 30 and 35 with ketone 40 afforded only ketals 44 and 45. The reaction of compound 30 with N,N-dimethylformamide dimethyl acetal led to N-dimethylaminomethylene derivative 46. Ynamine 30 is a substrate for adenosine deaminase.
9-Ethyladenine and 1-methyl-5-bromouracil crystallize together in a 1:1 complex. The molecular structure of this complex was solved by analysis of 3-dimensional X-ray diffraction data. The two molecules form a nearly planar hydrogen-bonded pair, connected by two hydrogen bonds, N-H…N from the uracil N 3 to the adenine imidazole N 7 and N-H…O from the adenine amino group nitrogen N 6 to the uracil O 2 . The hydrogen-bonded pairs are connected to pairs in neighboring unit cells through additional hydrogen bonds. The crystal structure has an unusual disordering feature. Approximately 6% of the uracil derivatives have an alternative hydrogen bonding to the adenine residue involving the carbonyl oxygen O 4 instead of O 2 . The effect of the bromine atom on the hydrogen-bonding interaction as well as its possible mode of action in mutagenesis are discussed.
The aqueous photochemistry of cis-[Ru(bpy)2(CO)Cl]+ (1) was investigated at 310 K and under visible light (white) irradiation by NMR and ESI-HR-MS. Complex 1 releases a Cl ligand, coordinates a solvent molecule, and forms the complex cis-[Ru(bpy)2(CO)(H2O)]2+ (2). Also, irradiation experiments were performed in the presence of the nucleobase derivatives 9-ethylguanine (9-EtG) and 9-ethyladenine (9-EtA). Formation of Ru-9-EtG adducts was observed after 3 h irradiation by NMR and HR-MS, while only very small amounts of a Ru-9-EtA adduct could be detected by HR-MS. Solution structural data were obtained by X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) for both 1 and 2. EXAFS gave a Ru−Cl distance of 2.416(7) A for 1 and a Ru−OH2O distance of 2.102(6) A for 2. DFT and TDDFT were employed to study the photophysical and photochemical properties of 1. Calculations show that dissociative metal-centered states can be related to the light-induced release of a Cl ligand and subsequent coordination of a solvent molecule. The compound showed no antiproliferative activity in three human carcinoma cell lines (lung, bladder, pancreas) under the testing conditions, either with or without irradiation with UV light.
(2). Also, irradiation experiments were performed in the presence of the nucleobase derivatives 9-ethylguanine (9-EtG) and 9-ethyladenine (9-EtA). Formation of Ru-9-EtG adducts was observed after 3 h irradiation by NMR and HR-MS, while only very small amounts of a Ru-9-EtA adduct could be detected by HR-MS. Solution structural data were obtained by X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) for both 1 and 2. EXAFS gave a Ru-Cl distance of 2.416(7) Å for 1, and a Ru-O H2O distance of 2.102(6) Å for 2. DFT and TDDFT were employed to study the photophysical and photochemical properties of 1. Calculations show that dissociative metal-centered states can be related to the light-induced release of a Cl ligand and subsequent coordination of a solvent molecule. The compound showed no antiproliferative activity in three human carcinoma cell lines (lung, bladder, pancreas) under the testing conditions, either with or without irradiation with UV-light.
In this study we describe the structural, photochemical and nucleobase binding properties of the ruthenium carbonyl complex cis-[Ru(bpy) 2 (CO)Cl] + (1) . Complex 1 has been previously studied as a photocatalyst for the water gas shift reaction 13 and for CO 2 photoreduction. 14 Although there has been some disagreement 13,14,16a UV-visible, XAS and DFT calculations) were carried out to elucidate the mechanism of ligand photodissociation from 1. Nucleobase binding experiments with 9-ethylguanine (9-EtG) and 9-ethyladenine (9-EtA) using NMR and mass spectrometry both in the dark and under irradiation were performed to investigate whether complex 1 might be a candidate for photoactivated targeting of DNA in cells.
[figure: see text] 9-Ethyladenine forms a unique molecular complex with N-methylcyanuric acid consisting of homomeric and heteromeric hydrogen-bonding patterns. Also, the homomeric hydrogen bond pattern is different than that observed in its pure crystal structures.
This thesis describes the synthesis of macrocyclic trinuclear ruthenium(II) “bowls” ::: that incorporated 9-methyladenine, 9-benzyl-9H-purin-6-amine, 9-ethyladenine and ::: 9-(4-methoxybenzyl)-9H-purin-6-amine as ligands with good yields and high ::: purities. Their binding to a variety of anion guests was investigated through nuclear ::: magnetic resonance as well as electrochemical studies. These macrocycles possess ::: extremely interesting binding affinity:1H-NMR investigations revealed selectivity in ::: the macrocycles-host binding, particularly with medium sized halide anions, namely ::: chloride and bromide, being most strongly bound. Generally, electrochemistry-based ::: titrations showed good agreement with the NMR host-guest titrations results, with ::: potential shifts being dependent on binding affinities -although there are some ::: specific differences in the results with fluoride and iodide. In the case of nuclear ::: magnetic resonance we found that the fluoride ion is too small in size to be suitable ::: for the macrocycle cavity to bind strongly, whilst in the case of electrochemistry ::: titrations larges shifts are seen after addition of fluoride due to the high charge ::: density of this ion. ::: It was found that more complex oxo-anions also bound to the host and affected the ::: RuII based oxidations. However, in general, the binding affinities for these more ::: complex anions were lower than the highest values for halide guests. Again ::: electrochemical potential shifts generally correlated with binding affinity. Studies ::: also revealed that the electrochemical response to addition of anion guest was ::: complex, as the guest induced shifts of the three RuII oxidations of the bowls were ::: not always the same.
Adenosine (Ado) is a naturally occurring nucleoside, involved in the regulation of many physiological and pathophysiological processes through the activation of four specific cell membrane receptors (AA1R, AA2AR, AA2BR, and AA3R), which belong to the superfamily of G protein-coupled receptors. Ado receptors (ARs) are responsible for the wide variety of effects produced by Ado throughout several organ systems. As they are ubiquitously expressed in the body and are often coexpressed in the same tissue, medicinal chemistry research has been focused, since their first identification, on the discovery of selective ARs agonists and antagonists, to exploit the therapeutic potential, but also to improve the knowledge about the complicate physiological role of Ado and its receptors. ::: Among the four AR subtypes, AA3R is the most enigmatic one, and little is still known about its physiological pleiotropic effects. Hence, with the aim at finding new potent and selective agonists for AA3R, disubstituted 5’-N-methylcarboxamidoAdo (MECA) derivatives bearing a methyl group in the N6-position and an aralkynyl substituent in the C2-position were designed, synthesized, and tested both in binding and functional assays. The new compounds showed affinity in the sub-nanomolar range, and very high selectivity for the target subtype, resulting among the most potent and selective AA3R ligands reported so far. Functional studies, carried out by performing a new Eu-GTP functional assay, which avoids the use of any radiolabelled compound, displayed that all the new molecules behave as AA3R full agonists. ::: Afterwards, the attention has been focused on the importance of AA2AR as novel target for the non-dopaminergic treatment of Parkinson’s disease (PD). ::: Starting from the observation that three 9-ethyladenine derivatives, bearing in the C8-position a bromine atom, an ethoxy group, or a furyl ring ameliorate motor deficits in rat models of PD, new series of molecules were designed and synthesized with the aim at finding new potential tools suitable for in vivo studies on rat models of PD. ::: Firstly, 9-ethyladenine derivatives bearing halogens, alkoxy groups, and aromatic rings in the C8-position have been prepared together with the three known above mentioned ::: molecules, which were used as reference compounds. Binding studies, performed both at rat and human ARs, showed that the three reference 9-ethyladenine derivatives were the most active AA2AR antagonists at human, but not at rat receptors. In fact, the newly synthesized 8-iodo, 8-methoxy, 8-phenethoxy, and 8-trifluoromethyl derivatives exhibited higher affinity at rat than the reference compounds, thus resulting as potential new tools suitable for in vivo studies on rat models of PD. ::: Secondly, a new series of C2/C8-disubstituted 9-ethyladenines was designed on the basis of the results obtained with the C8-substituted derivatives and taking into account previous observations demonstrating that the presence of alkoxy groups in the C2-position of 9-ethyladenine favours the interaction with AA2AR. Biological studies revealed that the most active compounds were those bearing a phenethoxy group in the C2-position. These molecules showed affinity at AA2AR in the low nanomolar range and good AA2AR selectivity in particular vs the AA3R subtype, the 8-bromo and 8-iodo derivatives being the most active.
Molecularly imprinted polymers are synthetic materials that contain specic binding sites, complementary to a compound of interest in terms of size, shape and functional group orientation. [1] [2] [3] Such imprinted sites are generated by locking in place solution complexes between the template of interest and a complementary functional monomer, by co-polymerising these complexes with an excess of a cross-linking monomer. Upon completion of the polymerisation reaction, the removal of the template reveals the specic binding sites that are then able to reversibly rebind the template or closely related substances and, depending on the application in hand, extract it from a complicated sample matrix (MI-SPE), 4 resolve enantiomeric forms in a racemic mixture of chiral compounds (MI-CSP) 5 or signal the binding event acting as a sensing element. 6 The requirement of a template or a mould around which the molecularly imprinted polymer will be built can in some cases be a limiting factor, as quite oen the targeted compound can be prohibitively expensive, incompatible with the polymerisation protocol, e.g. heat or light sensitive, insoluble in polymerisation solvents of choice, dangerous to the researchers' health or simply unavailable. In such cases scientists have employed template substitutes or "dummy" templates, as they are oen called, whereby a compound of closely related structure to the substance of interest is imprinted instead of the actual target itself. The resulting polymers have been shown to exhibit excellent recognition properties not only for the substitute template, but also for the actual target, largely depending on the similarity of the chosen template to the targeted structure. 7-9 9-Ethyladenine is a typical example of such a template, used by Spivak et al. as an organic solvent soluble analogue of adenine in the study of nucleotide base imprinted polymers. [10] [11] [12] In the present report, our aim was to develop molecularly imprinted polymers that will enable selective separation and quantitation of imiquimod (IMQ), a highly potent prescribed medication that acts as an immune response modier. Imiquimod was approved by the FDA for treatment of various types of skin cancer, as well as genital warts, in 1997, and it is formulated as a 5% patient-applied cream under the trade name AldaraÔ (3M Healthcare). Although imiquimod is applied topically, a systemic release of the drug is known to occur, with severe side-effects reported in some patient cases. 13, 14 Thus, a rapid and robust method for isolation and pre-concentration of imiquimod from biological uids could be an invaluable tool in early detection of systemic release and curtailment of its impact on patient well-being.
An investigation of 9-ethyladenine (9-EA) imprinted polymers has provided insight into the origins of binding and recognition by imprinted polymers. Porogens and polymerization temperature are important variables during the polymerization. Factors that influence rebinding of the 9-EA imprinted polymer include pH and utilization of the porogen as mobile phase. Finally, quantitative structure−binding relationship studies elicited the substructures of 9-EA primarily responsible for creating the binding sites within the polymers.
The gas-phase acidities of adenine, 9-ethyladenine, and 3-methyladenine have been investigated for the first time, using computational and experimental methods to provide an understanding of the intrinsic reactivity of adenine. Adenine is found to have two acidic sites, with the N9 site being 19 kcal mol-1 more acidic than the N10 site; the bracketed acidities are 333 ± 2 and 352 ± 4 kcal mol-1, respectively. Because measurement of the less acidic site can be problematic, we benchmarked the adenine N10 measurement by bracketing the acidity of 9-ethyladenine, which has the N9 site blocked and allows for exclusive measurement of the N10 site. The acidity of 9-ethyladenine brackets to 352 ± 4 kcal mol-1, comparable to that of the N10 site of the parent adenine. Calculations and experiments with 3-methyladenine, a harmful mutagenic nucleobase, uncovered the surprising result that the most commonly written tautomer of 3-methyladenine is not the most stable in the gas phase. We have found that the most stable t...
A hydrogen-bonded complex of diphenylhydantoin (DPH) and 9-ethyladenine (EtAd) crystallizes from 2,4-pentanedione with the asymmetrical unit consisting of two DPH molecules, one EtAd molecule, and one solvent molecule. The crystal structure was solved by direct methods and refined to a residual of R = 0.054. Structure determination reveals that one DPH hydrogen-bonds to EtAd in a Watson-Crick scheme while the second DPH N(3)--H bonds to EtAd N(3) to form a 2:1 DPH-EtAd complex. Comparisons are made with barbiturate-adenine complexes and with an earlier postulation of a 1:1 DPH-EtAd complex derived from NMR and IR data. The 2,4-pentanedione molecule adopts the keto-enol configuration with an asymmetrical intramolecular hydrogen bond.
Detailed EPR and ENDOR experiments on the cocrystalline complex of 1-methyluracil:9-Ethyladenine (MUEA) have revealed that the major radiation-induced products observed at 10 K on MU are: MUEA1, a radical formed by net hydrogen abstraction from the N1-CH3 methyl group, MUEA2, the MU radical anion, and MUEA3, the C5 H-addition radical. The following four products were observed on the adenine moiety at 10 K, MUEA4, the N3 protonated adenine anion, MUEA5, the native adenine cation, MUEA6, the amino deprotonated adenine cation, and MUEA7, the C8 H-addition radical formed by net H-addition to C8 of the adenine base. The geometries, energetics, and hyperfine properties of all possible radicals of MU and EA, the native anions and cations, as well as radicals formed via net hydrogen atom abstraction (deprotonated cations) or addition (protonated anions) were investigated theoretically. All systems were optimized using the hybrid Hartree–Fock–density functional theory functional B3LYP, in conjunction with the 6-31G(d,p) basis set of Pople and co-workers. Calculations of the anisotropic hyperfine couplings for all the radicals observed in MUEA are presented and are shown to compare favorably with the experimentally measured hyperfine couplings. The calculated ionizations potentials indicate that EA would be the preferred oxidation site. In MUEA, both the adenine cation and its N4-deprotonated derivative were observed. The calculated electron affinities indicate that MU would be the preferred reduction site. In MUEA radical, MUEA2 is a uracil reduction product, however the protonation state of this radical could not be determined experimentally. Calculations suggest that MUEA2 is actually the C4=O protonated anion.
The acidities of multiple sites in the purine nucleobase adenine (1) and adenine alkyl derivatives 9-ethyladenine (2), 3-methyladenine (3), 1-methyladenine (4), and N,N-dimethyladenine (5) have been investigated for the first time, using computational and experimental methods to provide an understanding of adenine reactivity. We have previously measured two acidic sites on adenine, with the N9 site being 19 kcal mol(-)(1) more acidic than the N10 site (333 +/- 2 versus 352 +/- 4 kcal mol(-)(1), respectively). In this work, we have established that 9-ethyladenine has two sites more acidic than water: the N10 (352 +/- 4 kcal mol(-)(1)) and the C8 (374 +/- 2 kcal mol(-)(1)). We have likewise measured two acidities for 3-methyladenine, the N10 (347 +/- 4 kcal mol(-)(1)) and the C2 (370 +/- 3 kcal mol(-)(1)). For 1-methyladenine and N,N-dimethyladenine, we measure the N9H acidity to be 331 +/- 2 and 333 +/- 2 kcal mol(-)(1), respectively. We believe that the bracketing of only one site for the latter species is a kinetic effect, which we discuss further in the paper. Computationally, we have found the interesting result that some of the vinylic C-H sites in these purine bases are predicted to be much more acidic than water (DeltaH(acid) = 390.7 kcal mol(-)(1)) in the gas phase, on the order of 373 kcal mol(-)(1). The acidic vinylic C-H sites are always adjacent to an N-R group, and this pattern is maintained regardless of whether the site is on the five- or six-membered ring of the purine. Vinylic C-H sites elsewhere on the purine have calculated acidities of about 400 kcal mol(-)(1). The differing acidities are interpreted through electrostatic potential calculations. We also relate our results to the intriguing biochemical decarboxylation of orotate ribose monophosphate, which involves a vinylic anion adjacent to an N-R group; this decarboxylation is the last step in the de novo biosynthesis of pyrimidine nucleotides, and the enzyme that catalyzes the reaction, orotate ribose monophosphate decarboxylase, has been the subject of intense study recently, as its mechanism remains elusive.
The dirhenium complex Re2(i-C3H7COO)4Cl2 was synthesized and characterized by X-ray crystallography, (1)H NMR and electronic spectroscopies, and electrospray ionization-mass spectrometry. The reactions of Re2(i-C3H7COO)4Cl2 with the substituted DNA purine nucleobases guanine (9-methylguanine and 9-ethylguanine) and adenine (9-methyladenine and 9-ethyladenine) were investigated by proton nuclear magnetic resonance and electronic spectroscopies as well as electrospray ionization-mass spectrometry. The data corroborate binding of two 9-methylguanine (or 9-ethylguanine) and 9-methyladenine (or 9-ethyladenine) bases per dirhenium unit in a bidentate fashion, in equatorial positions, via sites N7/O6 and N1/N6, respectively, with concomitant substitution of two carboxylate groups to form a single isomer of cis-Re2(i-C3H7COO)2(nucleobase)2Cl2. The binding of the bases to the dirhenium core disrupts important nucleobase interactions and may have important biological implications with respect to the anticancer activity of dirhenium complexes.
The selfassociation of N6,N9-dimethyladenine and N6-dimethyl-N9-ethyladenine has been studied by means of NMR technique. The thermodynamic quantities have been calculated using an isodesmic NMR model with three NMR parameters (the monomer shift δM and two complex shifts δ2 and δ3).
The barbiturates are derivatives of uracil, a component of the nucleic acids. They have been used extensively in medical and biological studies for many years, but the molecular basis of their mode of action is unknown. Recent infrared studies have shown that the barbiturates have a high selective affinity for forming hydrogen-bonded complexes with molecules containing adenine.I This phenomenon may be related to the way in which the barbiturates act in living systems. Selectivity in hydrogen-bond formation is an important component of biological organization, especially in the nucleic acids. The purine and pyrimidine components of these molecules have an affinity for each other. Derivatives of adenine form hydrogen bonds selectively with thymine or uracil derivatives, whereas guanine derivatives bond selectively with cytosine derivatives.24 These effects, called electronic complementarity,5 reinforce the geometrical complementarity which is found as a structural component of the double-helical form of the nucleic acids. In the infrared study,' it was found that association constants for hydrogen bonding between the barbiturates and adenine derivatives are an order of magnitude greater than those found between uracil and adenine derivatives. In the course of that investigation, intermolecular crystalline complexes were observed to form between a variety of barbiturates and several different adenine derivatives. Here we report the structure of the intermolecular complex containing one phenobarbital and two 8-bromo-9-ethyladenine molecules. It is found that one adenine derivative is hydrogen-bonded to the barbiturate ring using the same bonds found between the adenine and thymine pair in the double-helical form of DNA.6 The other adenine derivative is hydrogenbonded to a second site on the same barbiturate ring. In addition, the adenine derivatives are hydrogen-bonded to each other using the same system of hydrogen bonds found in the helical form of polyadenylic acid.7
Materials and Methods.-Commercial phenobarbital tablets were dissolved in chloroform and the phenobarbital was purified by solvent extraction. 8-Bromo-9-ethyladenine was purchased from Cyclo Chemical Company, Los Angeles, California. Phenobarbital and 8-bromo-9-ethyladenine were initially dissolved separately in chloroform solutions. When the two solutions were mixed together in an equimolar ratio, a white precipitate formed which was collected on filter paper and dissolved in hot water. The aqueous solution was allowed to cool and then evaporate at room temperature until well-formed, clear prismatic crystals appeared. The crystals had edges over a millimeter in length. Individual crystals were isolated and dissolved in water. The ultraviolet absorption spectrum revealed the presence of the two components in the solution. However, due to the character of the phenobarbital absorption spectrum, it was not possible to determine the mole ratio of the constituents. The unit-cell and space-group determinations were carried out with Weissenberg and precession cameras, and the density of the crystals was measured by the flotation tech-402
Abstract 9-Ethyladenine and 1-methyl-5-iodouracil form a 1:2 hydrogen-bonded complex in the crystalline state. The structure has been determined by three-dimensional X-ray diffraction methods and refined by block diagonal least squares to a final residual of 9.2%. The crystals are monoclinic, space group P2 1 c , with a = 15.13 A , b = 8.60 A , c = 20.11 A and β = 119 ° 42′. Two iodouracil residues interact with one adenine residue to form a planar trimer complex containing two different hydrogen-bonded configurations. One configuration is similar to that found in previous co-crystallization studies of adenine and uracil derivatives, and involves a Hoogsteen type base-pairing arrangement. The other base-pairing configuration resembles the Watson-Crick adenine-thymine base-pairing configuration, except that the iodouracil residue is reversed in its orientation, hydrogen-bonding involving the O(2) carbonyl oxygen, rather than O(4) as in the Watson-Crick scheme. The over-all crystal structure consists of an angulated sheet-like arrangement of trimer base pairs, held together by van der Waals' type interactions. The relationship of this structure to previous structures containing adenine and uracil derivatives is discussed.
A method is described for determining homologous and heterologous interactions between nucleic acid bases. Derivatives soluble in both water and an immiscible solvent, such as chloroform, are partitioned between the solvent and solutions of mononucleotides, at pH corresponding to substantial ionization of the secondary phosphate, so that self-association of the nucleotide is minimised. The concentration of the base derivative is kept 2–3 orders of magnitude below that of the nucleotide, the partition ratio being determined spectrophotometrically by sampling the non-aqueous phase. Adenine and uracil, but not so far guanine and cytosine, derivatives with the requisite solubility characteristics have been found. 9-Ethyladenine and 1-cyclohexyluracil were partitioned against a series of nucleotide solutions and association constants were determined and were found invariant with nucleotide concentration. Purine-purine associations are much the strongest, followed by purine-pyrimidine; the pyrimidine-pyrimidine associations which have been investigated are vanishingly small. Published data, based on other methods, are largely confined to self-associations; where comparison with results on uncharged derivatives, principally the nucleosides, is possible, agreement is satisfactory.
Heteroassociation of O- and N-isopropyl derivatives of barbital and phenobarbital with 9-ethyladenine (9-EA) in CCl4 solutions were studied by infrared spectroscopy. Cyclic heterodimers of high stability (725 less than KH less than 1960 1 X mol-1) compared to the corresponding homodimers (20 less than KD less than 60 1 X mol-1) were formed. The heteroassociation constants are interpreted in terms of both the hydrogen bonding tendency of the donor and acceptor centres and the number of sites available for the formation of hydrogen bonds. Such measurements may contribute to the understanding of the interactions between barbiturates, adenosine and their receptors in the brain.
In concentrated solutions of either 9-ethyladenine or 1-cyclohexyluracil in deuterochloroform, absorption bands in the infrared spectrum demonstrate hydrogen bonding of the adenine and uracil derivatives with themselves. In dilute solutions, there is very little hydrogen bonding. However, when dilute solutions of 9-ethyladenine and 1-cyclohexyluracil are mixed, a series of bands appear which show that these molecules are hydrogen-bonding with each other much more strongly than with themselves. A study of the stoichiometry of this association indicates formation of 1:1 hydrogen-bonded pairs in solution.
Reactions of the anticancer active compound cis-[Rh2(DTolF)2(CH3CN)6](BF4)2 with 9-ethyladenine (9-EtAdeH) or the dinucleotide d(ApA) proceed with bridging adenine bases in the rare imino form (A*), spanning the Rh-Rh bond at equatorial positions via N7/N6. The inflection points for the pH-dependent H2 and H8 NMR resonance curves of cis-[Rh2(DTolF)2(9-EtAdeH)2](BF4)2 correspond to N1H deprotonation of the metal-stabilized rare imino tautomer, which takes place at pKa approximately 7.5 in CD3CN-d3, a considerably reduced value as compared to that of the imino form of 9-EtAdeH. Similarly, coordination of the metal atoms to the N7/N6 adenine sites in Rh2(DTolF)2{d(ApA)} induces formation of the rare imino tautomer of the bases with a concomitant substantial decrease in the basicity of the N1H sites (pKa approximately 7.0 in CD3CN-d3), as compared to the imino form of the free dinucleotide. The presence of the adenine bases in the rare imino form, due to bidentate metalation of the N6/N7 sites, is further corroborated by DQF-COSY H2/N1H and ROE N1H/N6H cross-peaks in the 2D NMR spectra of Rh2(DTolF)2{d(ApA)} in CD3CN-d3 at -38 degrees C. Due to the N7/N6 bridging mode of the adenine bases in Rh2(DTolF)2{d(ApA)}, only the anti orientation of the imino tautomer is possible. The imino form A* of adenine in DNA may result in AT-->CG transversions or AT-->GC transitions, which can eventually lead to lethal mutations. The HH arrangement of the bases in Rh2(DTolF)2{d(ApA)} is indicated by the H8/H8 NOE cross-peaks in the 2D ROESY NMR spectrum, whereas the formamidinate bridging groups dictate the presence of one right-handed conformer HH1R in solution. Complete characterization of Rh2(DTolF)2{d(ApA)} by 2D NMR spectroscopy and molecular modeling supports the presence of the HH1R conformer, anti orientation of both sugar residues about the glycosyl bonds, and N-type conformation for the 5'-A base.
Di- and trinuclear complexes of trans-a2PtII (a = NH3 or NH2CH3) and the purine model nucleobases 9-methyladenine (9-MeA), 9-ethyladenine (9-EtA), 9-methylguanine (9-MeGH), and 9-ethylguanine (9-EtGH) have been prepared and characterized. The following five compounds have been studied using X-ray crystallography: trans-[(NH3)2Pt(9-EtA-N7)(9-MeGH-N7)](NO3)2·1.4H2O (1b), trans,trans-{[Cl(NH2CH3)2Pt]2(9-EtA-N1,N7)}(ClO4)2 (2), trans,trans-{[Cla2Pt](N1-9-MeA-N7)Pt(NH3)2(9-MeGH-N7)}(ClO4)3·nH2O (a = NH2CH3, n = 1 (3a); a = NH3, n = 1.8 (3b)), and trans,trans,trans-{[Cl(NH3)2Pt]2(N1-9-MeA-N7)2Pt(NH3)2}(ClO4)4·H2O (5). In all diplatinated adenine species (2, 3a, 3b, and 5) the Pt−N(1) and Pt−N(7) vectors are approximately at right angles, therefore making these complexes potential building blocks for molecular squares, rectangles, and meanders. Two open nucleobase quartets, 4 and 6, consisting of three trans-diamineplatinum(II) entities and four purine nucleobases (two bridging 9-MeA‘s and two terminal 9-MeGH (...
The complexity of DNA oligomers can be considerably reduced by focussing on the base pair building blocks. There are a number of high-resolution IR+UV spectroscopic studies in the gas phase by the groups of de Vries and Kleinermanns. In Ref. [8] , for instance, it was shown that Watson-Crick (WC) pairing is not the most favorable case in the gas phase (see also simulation in Ref. [9] ). WC pairing can be enforced by substitutions as shown, e.g., for adenine and uracil derivatives in deuterochloroform solution (9-ethyladenine, 1-cyclohexyluracil) [10] . Recently, the first subpicosecond time-resolved study of the vibrational relaxation of the H-bonded NH stretching fundamental transition in a substituted adenine-uracil pair has been reported by Wouterson and Cristalli [11] . In particular they observed that base-pairing decreases the relaxation time by a factor of three as compared to monomeric uracil. Since vibrational energy flow in H-bonded nucleic acid bases is of apparent importance for the understanding of DNA dynamics, not at least in the context of DNA photoprotection, there is a need to develop a microscopic picture for this process.
In H2O at near neutrality, the 1-(ω-hydroxyalkyl)adenine derivatives 8a, b·HBr and 8c·HClO4 underwent hydrolytic deamination to give the 1-(ω-hydroxyalkyl)hypoxanthine derivatives 10a-c, in competition with the usual Dimroth rearrangement to produce the N6-(ω-hydroxyalkyl)adenine derivatives 9a-c. The rates of these competitive reactions were measured in H2O at various pH's and ionic strength 1.0 at 40°C, and the relative rate of deamination with respect to Dimroth rearrangement was found to increase as the pH of the reaction medium was decreased. Under similar conditions, the corresponding 1-alkyl analogues 8d-g·HClO4 and the 1-(modified benzyl) analogues 8h, i·HBr underwent only Dimroth rearrangement to afford the N6-isomers 9d-i. In the Dimroth rearrangements of all of the substrates 8a, b, d-i·HX (X=Br or ClO4), attack of hydroxide ion on the protonated species (8a, b, d-i·H+) at the 2-position was faster than that on the neutral species by a factor of 100-640. In the reaction of the protonated species, the 1-(ω-hydroxyalkyl) analogues 8a, b·HBr rearranged faster than the corresponding 1-alkyl analogues 8e, f·HClO4 by a factor of 1.6-2.7. It has been concluded that this rate enhancement is attributable solely to the electron-withdrawing effect, and not to intramolecular participation in catalysis, of the hydroxy group in the 1-substituent chain. In the syntheses of 8a, i·HBr from 9-ethyladenine (6) according to a general 1-alkylation procedure, the 7-alkylated products 13 and 16 were also obtained as by-products in 9% and 6% yields, respectively.
A new ferrocenyl uracil peptide nucleic acid (PNA) monomer, tert-butyl-2-(N-(2-(((9H-floren-9-yl)-methoxy)carbonylamino)ethyl)-2-(5-(N-ferrocenylmethylbenzamido)-2,4-dioxo-3,4-dihydropyrimidin-l(2H)-yl)acetamido)acetate (1), has been successfully prepared in good yield by a procedure involving the one-pot reaction of the key synthon, 5-(ferrocenylmethylamino)pyrimidine-2,4(1H,3H)-dione (4), itself prepared from the reaction of (ferrocenylmethyl)trimethylammonium iodide and 5-aminouracil, with benzoyl chloride followed by ethyl bromoacetate. After hydrolysis of the ester, the acid was coupled with a protected PNA backbone to generate 1. NMR spectroscopy showed that 1 hydrogen bonds 9-ethyladenine (EA) in a 1:1 mixture of CD 3 CN:CDCl 3 with an association constant K a of 70 M -1 at 30 °C. This value is comparable with those observed for model receptors and shows that the ferrocenyl moiety of 1 does not hinder the hydrogen bonding of our new PNA monomer to the complementary DNA base or if it does, not significantly. 1 is oxidized to 1 + with a reversible potential of +538 mV vs the DMFc 0+ (decamethylferrocene) couple under voltammetric conditions in a 1:1 mixture of CH 3 CN: CHCl 3 (0.1 M Bu 4 NPF 6 ). For this reversible process, a slightly larger diffusion coefficient of 4.2 x 10 -6 cm 2 ·s -1 than usually found for these compounds was determined from these electrochemical studies, which should be analytically useful as it will readily afford submicromolar voltammetric detection limits.
The use of hydrogen-bonding patterns in the same way as is known from DNA building blocks is a challenge for the construction of novel types of suitable chromophoric probes. This feature has been utilised for the construction of a novel type of UV/Vis probe for detection of supramolecular AAD or DAD sequences (A=hydrogen bond acceptor, D=hydrogen bond donor). Here we report on the structure of the enolisable chromophore 1-n-butyl-5-(4-nitrophenyl)barbituric acid (1), which has an adjustable hydrogen-bonding pattern. The position of the keto-enol equilibrium of this dye is strongly influenced both by the solvent polarity and by the chemical environment. Furthermore, the recognition properties of the barbiturate were examined by the use of seven artificial receptors: the pyridine bases 2,6-diaminopyridine (DAP), 2,6-diacetamidopyridine (DAC) and 2,6-bis(trifluoroacetamido)pyridine (TFA), as well as the nucleic acid bases 9-ethyladenine (EtAd), 9-ethylguanine (EtGu), 1-n-butylcytosine (BuCy) and 1-n-butylthymine (BuTy). It was found that 1 can interact with these bases either through acid-base interaction or by hydrogen-bonding complexation. The balance between the interactions is dependent both on the basicity strength and on the presence of a suitable recognition sequence in the base. The induced formation of the enol form of 1 thus causes a significant UV/Vis shift as function of the nature of the base.
A molecularly imprinted polymer capable of spectroscopic change based upon molecular recognition was prepared using a metalloporphyrin-based functional monomer. The effectiveness of the metalloporphyrin functional monomer was demonstrated on molecular imprinting of a nucleobase derivative, 9-ethyladenine (9-EA). When the concentration of 9-EA was increased, the visible absorbance spectra of the polymer dispersed in chloroform showed a red shift and the degree of the shift was dependent upon the concentration change. This readable molecular recognition phenomenon suggests a potential application of the molecularly imprinted polymer as optical sensor materials.
Transient electronic and vibrational absorption spectroscopies have been used to investigate whether UV-induced electron-driven proton transfer (EDPT) mechanisms are active in a chemically modified adenine–thymine (A·T) DNA base pair. To enhance the fraction of biologically relevant Watson–Crick (WC) hydrogen-bonding motifs and eliminate undesired Hoogsteen structures, a chemically modified derivative of A was synthesized, 8-(tert-butyl)-9-ethyladenine (8tBA). Equimolar solutions of 8tBA and silyl-protected T nucleosides in chloroform yield a mixture of WC pairs, reverse WC pairs, and residual monomers. Unlike previous transient absorption studies of WC guanine–cytosine (G·C) pairs, no clear spectroscopic or kinetic evidence was identified for the participation of EDPT in the excited-state relaxation dynamics of 8tBA·T pairs, although ultrafast (sub-100 fs) EDPT cannot be discounted. Monomer-like dynamics are proposed to dominate in 8tBA·T.
Rebek imide-type molecular clefts with pi-stacking platforms attached to the imide scaffold by an acetylene linker have been prepared by Sonogashira cross-coupling. In the solid state, a novel dimerisation mode for this class of imide receptors was found by crystal structure analysis, whereas efficient 1 : 1 complexation with 9-ethyladenine was observed in CDCl3 solution.
In deuterochloroform solution theophylline hydrogen bonds strongly with 9-ethyladenine, the strength of the association being comparable with that of the hydrogen bonding between 1-cyclohexyluracil and 9-ethyladenine reported previously, while caffeine associates relatively weakly with the latter. In a hydrophobic medium caffeine has greater solubility while theophylline self-associates extensively. The alleged role of caffeine in interfering with a DNA repair mechanism is discussed.
Detailed EPR and ENDOR experiments on the cocrystalline complex of 1-methyluracil:9-Ethyladenine (MUEA) have revealed that the major radiation-induced products observed at 10 K on MU are: MUEA1, a radical formed by net hydrogen abstraction from the N1-CH3 methyl group, MUEA2, the MU radical anion, and MUEA3, the C5 H-addition radical. The following four products were observed on the adenine moiety at 10 K, MUEA4, the N3 protonated adenine anion, MUEA5, the native adenine cation, MUEA6, the amino deprotonated adenine cation, and MUEA7, the C8 H-addition radical formed by net H-addition to C8 of the adenine base. The geometries, energetics, and hyperfine properties of all possible radicals of MU and EA, the native anions and cations, as well as radicals formed via net hydrogen atom abstraction (deprotonated cations) or addition (protonated anions) were investigated theoretically. All systems were optimized using the hybrid Hartree–Fock–density functional theory functional B3LYP, in conjunction with the 6-31G(d,p) basis set of Pople and co-workers. Calculations of the anisotropic hyperfine couplings for all the radicals observed in MUEA are presented and are shown to compare favorably with the experimentally measured hyperfine couplings. The calculated ionizations potentials indicate that EA would be the preferred oxidation site. In MUEA, both the adenine cation and its N4-deprotonated derivative were observed. The calculated electron affinities indicate that MU would be the preferred reduction site. In MUEA radical, MUEA2 is a uracil reduction product, however the protonation state of this radical could not be determined experimentally. Calculations suggest that MUEA2 is actually the C4=O protonated anion.
Abstract Treatment of [{RuCl 2 ( η 6 -arene} 2 ] (arene = p -cymene, C 6 H 6 ) with adenine (adeH), 9-ethyladenine (9etade) and adenosine (aden) provides the complexes [{Ru(ade) ( η 6 - p -cymene)} 4 ] (CF 3 SO 3 ) 4 ( 2 ). [{Pu(9etadeH −1 ) ( η 6 - p -cymene)}] (CF 3 SO 3 ) 3 ( 3 ) and [{Ru(adenH −1 )( η 6 -C 6 H 6 )} 3 ] (CF 3 SO 3 ) 3 4 . The structures of complexes 2 and 3 were established by X-ray structural analysis. 2 cyrstallises in the tetragonal space group /4 1 / a with a = b = 15.870(2), c = 35.710(7) A , Z = 4 ; 3 ·1.5H 2 O in the monoclinic space group C 2/ c with a = 35.985(3), b = 13.094(2), c = 28.406(3) A , Z = 8 . Common to 2–4 is the participation of N6 and N7 in a five-membered chelate ring, which leads to a characteristic upfield shift in the 1 H NMR signal of the pyrimidine proton H2. The tetrameric complex 2 exhibits the μ -1 κN 9 :2 κ 2 N 6 , N 7 coordination mode for the bridging adeninate ligands, the trimeric complexes 3 and 4 the μ -1 κN 1 :2 κ 2 N 6 , N 7 mode for the 9-substituted derivatives.
Abstract The single crystal X-ray structures of two different polynuclear metal–nucleobase complexes are reported. Crystals isolated from the reaction of CdBr 2 with ethylenediamine-N9-ethyladenine, A-Et-en, were characterised by X-ray structural analysis as a coordination polymer [μ-{CdBr( N 3, N 7-A-Et-en)} 2 CdBr 4 ] ( 2 ). Reaction of the Pd(II)–adenine complex, [PdCl( N 3-A-Et-en)] + , with sodium uracilate yielded [(Pd( N 3-A-Et-en) 2 ( N 1, N 3-U)][ClO 4 ] 2 ( 3 ). Despite the considerable differences in the nature of the compounds the crystal structures feature essentially similar supramolecular architectures. A building block analysis demonstrates how this arises and reveals an approach, based on bond-type substitution and molecular replacement, to conserving such features. This may be a useful approach that could be more widely adopted in crystal engineering strategies.
Molecular imprinting technology was used to create polymeric receptors for the DNA and RNA bases. The binding affinity and selectivity of ethylene glycol dimethacrylate (EGDMA) methacrylic acid (MAA) imprinted copolymers were evaluated chromatographically. Specific binding was found for adenine, cytosine, and guanosine derivatives. These bases contain a 2-aminopyridine substructure previously found important for the binding and specificity of polymers imprinted with 9-ethyladenine. Thymine and uracil derivatives, which do not contain the 2-aminopyridine substructure, exhibited little specific binding to the imprinted polymers. The magnitude of the binding affinity for each of the nucleoside derivatives to its own imprinted polymer follows the order A > G > C > T, U. This differs from the order of binding between butyric acid and the RNA base derivatives in solution (G > C > A > U: Lancelot, G. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1977, 99, 7037) or between control polymers that contain randomly distributed carboxylic acid ...
Fast-atom bombardment (FAB) mass spectrometry, linked with tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS), was employed for the identification of methylated purine bases in four urinary extracts of healthy subjects and fourteen urinary extracts of patients bearing colorectal tumors. In order to obtain an easy structural identification of the species present in urinary extracts, the MS/MS spectra of MH+ species of twenty nine diagnostically relevant purine bases were studied. Even if definitive quantitative data cannot be obtained by this approach, FAB mass spectra of urine extracts lead to a readily reproducible mapping of endogenous purine bases, allowing a distinction between healthy and sick subjects. Bases such as 9-ethyladenine, N6-2-isopentenyladenine and N6-benzyladenine were detected only in urine samples of colorectal tumor bearing patients. The detection in urine of compounds such as 7-methylguanine and 1-methylguanine, and their increase in the urine of colorectal tumor bearing patients, has been justified either by a more rapid turnover of nucleic acids in tumor tissue or by an increase in the extent of their methylation. The obtained results indicate that the method can be employed for diagnostic purposes.
G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) are a large family of receptor proteins that play important roles in many physiological and pathological conditions. In drug discovery, they are one of the most important drug targets. In particular, adenosine receptors, classified as A1, A2A, A2B and A3 (A1AR, A2AAR, A2BAR, and A3AR) subtypes, have been actively studied as potential therapeutic targets in several disorders such as cardiovascular and CNS pathologies. ::: The aim of the present work is the development of innovative and non-radioactive screening systems in order to study a large number of adenosine P1 receptor ligands. On the other hand, since new assays could be useful to contribute to receptor deorphanization, the task work has been focused to characterize the putative guanosine receptor and the novel dual uracil nucleotide/cysteinyl-leukotriene receptor, GPR17. In particular, functional cAMP and DELFIA GTP-Eu binding assays were used. ::: The cAMP immuno-competitive assay, performed in homogeneous time resolved fluorescence (HTRF), was optimized and validated using as reference agonists NECA at A2AAR and A2BAR, and Cl-IBMECA at A3AR. Hence, after this assay validation, the biological profile of a series of 8-substituted 9-ethyladenines was assessed at A2AAR. Results showed that all compounds behave as A2AAR antagonists. ::: On the other hand, an innovative luminescence cAMP assay, that uses a genetically modified form of firefly luciferase containing a cAMP-binding protein moiety, was developed for ARs. Two new improved plasmids containing the gene for the modified form of firefly luciferase were optimized and validated at ARs in order to verify their efficacy at Gαs and Gαi systems. In particular, the experiments were carried out by transiently expressing these new vectors at CHO cell line stably transfected with A2A and A3 ARs. Results showed that both plasmids can be used at ARs and since this assay demonstrated to be robust and reproducible, it was used as new tool to investigate the novel “dual” GPR17. Furthermore, the better evaluation of the “dual” nature of the human GPR17 could be carried out in 1321N1 cells since they do not constitutively express nucleotide and cysteinyl-leukotriene receptors. In particular, different transient transfection methods such as calcium phosphate, lipofectamine, fugene, arrest-InTM and microporation, have been investigated. Experiments were performed using also in parallel GFP as reporter gene and results analyzed by RT-PCR suggested that microporator as well as Arrest-In are both the best method to promote an enriched hgpr17 delivery into 1321N1 cell line. ::: Moreover, DELFIA GTP-Eu binding assay was carried out using CHO-A3 membranes. The standardization of DELFIA GTP-Eu assay is a long process, in which the determination of the specific receptor buffer stimulation was the first crucial step investigated. The assay validation was carried out using know ligands and subsequently, a new series of 2-alkynyl-N6-methyl-5’-N-methylcarboxamidoAdo derivatives were screened and results suggested that they are full agonists at A3AR. Subsequently, the assay potentialities were extended at native tissue. In particular, rat brain membranes were prepared from Male Wistar rat and used to investigate putative guanosine receptor by testing known and novel ligands. Results obtained suggested the presence of a G-protein coupled receptor able to be activated by guanosine and some guanosine derivatives. ::: The AGC is a family of kinase that is composed of 60 different enzymes including PKC isoforms, PKB/AKT, S6K and their upstream kinase, the phosphoinositide-dependent protein kinase 1 (PDK1). In particular, located in the small loop of the kinase domain is present a pocket called PIF-binding pocket that is involved in the regulation of the intrinsic activity of these kinases. The molecular mechanism of allosteric activation of PDK1 by small molecular weight prodrugs and their effects in C2C12 cells were evaluated. In particular experiments were carried out incubating C2C12 with PS423 and PS0403, small chemical entities synthesized by the PhosphoSites research group, and after cell insulin stimulation the PDK1 pathway was investigated. Results obtained suggested that these compounds were able to bind the PIF-binding pocket inhibiting the S6K phosphorylation without affecting the PKB activity. On the other hand, the in cell western was optimized at C2C12, as new assay to screen and to evaluate in a throughput way the effects of several PS-compounds on the S6K phosphorylation by PDK1. Results demonstrated that the in cell western is a robust, reproducible and easy to use assay to screen directly in the cell several compounds in the same experiments.
The synthesis and characterization of products from reactions of Rh2(form)2(O2CCF3)2(CH3CN)2 (form = N,N‘-p-ditolylformamidinate, N,N‘-diphenylformamidinate) and the partially solvated [Rh2(DTolF)2(CH3CN)6][BF4]2 (DtolF = N,N‘-p-ditolylformamidinate) with the DNA purine analogues, 9-ethylguanine, and 9-ethyladenine are described. X-ray crystallography was used to characterize Rh2(DTolF)2(O2CCF3)2(CH3CN)2 (1) which crystallizes in the space group P21/n with a = 10.849 (3) A, b = 21.435 (6) A, c = 18.677 (3) A, V = 4340 A3, Z = 4, R = 0.0451, and Rw = 0.0904. The two rhodium centers are bridged by four O2CCF3- ligands with a Rh−Rh distance of 2.24743(5) A. Compound 1 reacts with 9-ethylguanine to form Rh2(DTolF)2(9-EtGH)2(O2CCF3)2 (3) which exists as two isomers, namely head-to-head and head-to-tail as confirmed by 1H NMR spectroscopy. [Rh2(DTolF)2(CH3CN)6][BF4]2 (5) crystallizes in the Pbca space group with a = 21.646 (3) A, b = 31.272 (3) A, c = 14.561(4) A, V = 9857 A3, Z = 8, R = 0.046, and Rw = 0.063. ...
