Oligomerization of trichloroacetaldehyde (chloral) was carried out with the lithium salt of (1 S, 2 R, 4 S)-(–)-borneol as the initiator. The unimer and dimer fractions consisted of two and four diastereomers, respectively; the individual isomers were isolated from the fractions by crystallization from methanol or by high performance liquid chromatography. The X-ray single-crystal analysis showed that the major isomer in the unimer fraction is the (R)-form which has the acetal carbon in (R)-configuration. The diastereomeric ratios were determined by 1H NMR as R/S = 57/43 for the unimers and RS/SR/RR/SS = 34/25/23/18 for the dimers. The conformations of the meso-dimers [(R,R)- and (S,S)-isomers] in the crystalline form corresponded to a half turn of the 41-helix of isotactic polychloral, whereas the conformations of the racemo-dimers (the (R,S)- and (S,R)-isomers) were different from the helical structure in the crystal and in solution. The trimer fraction consisted of six of the eight possible diastereomers; among these isomers, the mm isomers (the (R,R,R)- and (S,S,S)-isomers) were highly predominant. The amount of the (R,R,R)-trimer formed was only slightly larger than that of the (S,S,S)-isomer. (a) Part 42, cf. G. D. Jaycox, O. Vogl, J. Am. Chem. Soc., submitted.
Abstract Reaction of trichloroacetaldehyde and acrylonitrile in the presence of a catalytic amount of copper (I) chloride in ionic liquid afforded 2,3,5‐trichloropyridine, fluorination of which with KF and CsF in ionic liquid afforded 3,5‐dichloro‐2‐fluoropyridine and 5‐chloro‐2,3‐dichloropyridine. Reaction of 2,3,5‐trichloropyridine, 3,5‐dichloro‐2‐fluoropyridine, or 5‐chloro‐2,3‐dichloropyride with 2‐(4‐hydroxyphenoxy)propionates in ionic liquid afforded the corresponding 2‐aryloxylpropionates in good yields.
The rotational isomerism of α-fluoroacetaldehyde (FAL), α-chloroacetaldehyde (CAL) and α-bromoacetaldehyde (BAL) has been studied through ab initio and density functional theory. Potential energy surfaces have been obtained and the equilibrium was found to be between the cis and trans forms for FAL and between the cis and gauche forms for CAL and BAL. The trans or gauche conformer was found to be more stable in the three cases. Natural bond orbital analysis was conducted and led to the conclusion that steric repulsion prevail over electron delocalization in determining the conformational preference.
Abstract ::: 2-Hydroperoxytetrahydrofuran (THF-OOH) can be employed to sequence cytosine (C) and to probe for non-canonical DNA structures involving C. Using 32P-labeled oligomers and a DNA restriction fragment, it is demonstrated that THF-OOH has a strong preference for Cs in single-stranded (s-s) DNA regions, and in bulges, loops and mismatches. The reactivity of C is diminished below pH 6.0, but is not affected by substitution of 5-methylcytosine. To demonstrate the utility of the reagent, it is directly compared to methoxylamine and chloroacetaldehyde, two other reagents commonly used to chemically probe C residues in non-Watson-Crick DNA structures.
The principle of ethanol chlorination to produce trichloroacetaldehyde was introduced.The step chlorination process was analyzed as well as the problems occurred during production and the corresponding solutions.
By using cytoplasmic and mitochondrial serine transhydroxymethylase isoenzymes from rabbit liver, it was shown that both enzymes exhibited similar ratios of serine transhydroxymethylase/threonine aldolase activities. Both enzymes catalysed the removal of the pro-S hydrogen atom of glycine, which was greatly enhanced by the presence of tetrahydrofolate. The cytoplasmic as well as the mitochondrial enzyme catalysed the synthesis of serine from glycine and [3H2]formaldehyde in the absence of tetrahydrofolate. The results are consistent with our previous suggestion that a role of tetrahydrofolate in the serine transhydroxymethylase reaction is to transport formaldehyde in and out of the active site (Jordan & Akhtar, 1970). The isoenzymes, however, showed remarkable differences in their inactivation by inhibitors. The serine transhydroxymethylase as well as the threonine aldolase activities of the cytoplasmic enzyme were inactivated in a similar fashion by chloroacetaldehyde, iodoacetamide, bromopyruvate and glycidaldehyde (2,3-epoxypropionaldehyde). These inhibitors had no effect on the two activities of the mitochondrial enzyme. The rate of inactivation of the cytoplasmic enzyme by glycidaldehyde was enhanced by the presence of glycine but decreased by the presence of serine. The implications of these results to the mechanism of catalysis and the nature of the active site of the enzymes are discussed.
An on-column isotachophoretic (ITP)-capillary electrophoresis (CE) system capable of preconcentrating polyhydroxyl species is reported. The ITP-CE system utilizes borate complexation of the neutral diol species to form anionic compounds that can be directly separated by CE. Borate buffer fuctions as both the terminating electrolyte for the ITP preconcentration and the operating buffer for the subsequent CE separation. Isotachophoretic preconcentration allows injection volumes as large as 50% of the column volume, without compromising separation integrity, to yield detection limits about 70-fold lower than direct CE separation (with borate operating buffer). In this paper we also present an application of the ITP-CE system, with laser-induced fluorescence (LIF) detection, to the quantitative analysis of adenosine from urine. Nanomolar concentration levels of adenosine are successfully derivatized with chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) to form a fluorescent derivative whose spectral characteristics match the HeCd laser. The technique is shown to be capable of quantitative measurement of adenosine as low as 10−9 M, the levels expected in plasma and urine.
Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) is a curative treatment strategy for malignancies, such as leukemia and lymphomas, and nonmalignant disorders such as metabolic disorders and aplastic anemia. Prior to HSCT, chemotherapy with or without radiation is used as a conditioning regimen to eliminate malignant cells, provide space for donor cells, and avoid graft rejection by suppressing the immune system [1] . Cyclophosphamide (Cy) in combination with busulphan or with total body irradiation (TBI) belong to the most common used conditioning regimens [2] . Cyclophosphamide is an alkylating agent that is widely used in the treatment of hematological malignancies as well as solid tumors. Cy is also a potent immunosuppressive agent that affects both T-and B-lymphocytes, thus having effect on both humoral and cell-mediated immunity. Cy can also be used to treat rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, Sjögren´s syndrome, glomerulonephritis, multiple sclerosis, and in preconditioning of hosts to prevent transplant rejection [3] . Cy is a prodrug that is metabolized by several CYPs to become cytotoxic and effective in cancer chemotherapy [4] . The 4-hydroxylation product is the active metabolite of Cy that yields an active alkylating agent, phosphoramide mustard and a toxic by-product, acrolein. Acrolein is responsible for urotoxicity (hemorrhagic cystitis). Through another pathway, N-dechloroethylation, Cy is metabolized to an inactive metabolite (2-dechloroethyl-Cy) and the neurotoxic agent chloroacetaldehyde (CA) [5] .
By using cytoplasmic and mitochondrial serine transhydroxymethylase isoenzymes from rabbit liver, it was shown that both enzymes exhibited similar ratios of serine transhydroxymethylase/threonine aldolase activities. Both enzymes catalysed the removal of the pro-S hydrogen atom of glycine, which was greatly enhanced by the presence of tetrahydrofolate. The cytoplasmic as well as the mitochondrial enzyme catalysed the synthesis of serine from glycine and [3H2]formaldehyde in the absence of tetrahydrofolate. The results are consistent with our previous suggestion that a role of tetrahydrofolate in the serine transhydroxymethylase reaction is to transport formaldehyde in and out of the active site (Jordan & Akhtar, 1970) . The isoenzymes, however, showed remarkable differences in their inactivation by inhibitors. The serine transhydroxymethylase as well as the threonine aldolase activities of the cytoplasmic enzyme were inactivated in a similar fashion by chloroacetaldehyde, iodoacetamide, bromopyruvate and glycidaldehyde (2,3-epoxypropionaldehyde). These inhibitors had no effect on the two activities of the mitochondrial enzyme. The rate of inactivation of the cytoplasmic enzyme by glycidaldehyde was enhanced by the presence of glycine but decreased by the presence of serine. The implications of these results to the mechanism of catalysis and the nature of the active site of the enzymes are discussed.
Abstract When 1,2-propanediol is added to dioldehydrase-coenzyme B12, electron spin resonance signals appear which indicate the presence of at least two paramagnetic species. One signal, at g = 2.2, is attributed to Co(II) of B12(r). Other signals, at g ≈ 2.0, which show different power saturation behavior, are tentatively assigned to organic radicals, possibly derived from the substrate and the adenosyl moiety of the coenzyme. The occurrence of such species is in accord with a previously proposed mechanism (Finlay, T. H., Valinsky, J., Sato, K., and Abeles, R. H. (1972) J. Biol. Chem. 247, 4197–4207). Integration of the signal indicates that approximately 0.75 unpaired electrons are present per molecule of enzyme-coenzyme complex. Signals with similar but not identical g values were obtained with the substrate analogues chloroacetaldehyde and glycolaldehyde. With chloroacetaldehyde the signal at g = 2.0 shows pronounced fine structure and non-uniform saturation behavior, confirming the multiplicity and substrate dependence of this signal. With both substrate analogues nearly two unpaired electrons are detected per molecule of enzyme-coenzyme complex. The paramagnetic species have only a small effect on the longitudinal relaxation rate of the water protons, suggesting that they are shielded from the solvent. The distance of closest approach of the water protons to the paramagnetic center was estimated to be 10.2 A. These experiments established that dioldehydrase can bring about the homolytic cleavage of the carbon-cobalt bond of coenzyme B12 and suggest the possibility that radical species may be intermediates in the catalytic reaction. A kinetic analysis will be required to establish conclusively that the radicals play a significant role in the catalytic process.
Exposure to occupationally relevant concentrations of the environmental pollutant, trichloroethylene (TCE), in the drinking water of autoimmune-prone MRL+/+ mice has been shown to promote the generation of lupus and autoimmune hepatitis in association with the activation of Interferon-γ (IFN-γ)-producing CD4+ T cells. Since blocking TCE metabolism suppressed the TCE-induced alteration in immune function, the present study was initiated to determine whether the major metabolites of TCE, trichloroacetaldehyde hydrate (TCAH) and trichloroacetic acid (TCA) could also mediate these immunoregulatory affects in vivo. TCAH and TCA were administered to the drinking water of MRL+/+ mice for 4 weeks. CD4+ T cells from TCAH and TCA-treated MRL+/+ mice, unlike CD4+ T cells from control mice, demonstrated functional and phenotypic signs of activation, as evidenced by increased IFN-γ production in association with the increased percentage of CD62Llo CD4+ T cells. Interestingly, it was also found that the CD4+ T cells from the TCAH and TCA-treated mice showed a decreased susceptibility to the activation-induced cell death (AICD) form of apoptosis following re-stimulation in vitro. By demonstrating that TCAH and TCA can activate CD4+ T cells and inhibit their apoptosis following in vivo exposure represents a mechanism by which environmental toxicants may induce or accelerate the development of autoimmune disease.
Palifosfamide, the DNA-alkylating metabolite of ifosfamide (IFOS), has been synthesized as a stabilized tris or lysine salt and found to have preclinical and clinical antitumor activity. Stabilized palifosfamide overcomes limitations of IFOS because of patient-to-patient variability in response resulting from variable prodrug activation, resistance and toxicities of metabolic byproducts, acrolein and chloroacetaldehyde. Palifosfamide represents an effective alternative to IFOS and other DNA-alkylating prodrugs. The antitumor activities of stabilized palifosfamide were investigated in vivo. Dose response, route and schedule of administration, and interaction with docetaxel or doxorubicin were investigated in NCr-nu/nu mice bearing established orthotopic mammary MX-1 tumor xenografts. Oral activity was investigated in P388-1 leukemia in CD2F1 mice. Oral and intraperitoneal bioavailabilities were compared in Sprague-Dawley rats. Stabilized palifosfamide administered by optimized regimens suppressed MX-1 tumor growth (P<0.05) by greater than 80% with 17% complete antitumor responses and up to three-fold increase in time to three tumor doublings over controls. Median survival in the P388-1 (P<0.001) model was increased by 9 days over controls. Oral bioavailability in rats was 48-73% of parenteral administration, and antitumor activity in mice was equivalent by both routes. Treatment with palifosfamide-tris combined with docetaxel or doxorubicin at optimal regimens resulted in complete tumor regression in 62-75% of mice. These studies support investigation of stabilized palifosfamide in human cancers by parenteral or oral administration as a single agent and in combination with other approved drugs. The potential for clinical translation of the cooperative interaction of palifosfamide-tris with doxorubicin by intravenous administration is supported by results from a recent randomized Phase-II study in unresectable or metastatic soft-tissue sarcoma.
Abstract H-NS inhibits transcription by forming repressing nucleoprotein complexes next to promoters. We investigated repression by binding of H-NS within the transcription unit using the bgl and proU operons. Repression of both operons requires a downstream regulatory element (DRE) in addition to an upstream element (URE). In bgl, H-NS binds to a region located between 600 to 700 bp downstream of the transcription start site, whereas in proU the DRE extends up to position +270. We show that binding of H-NS to the bgl-DRE inhibits transcription initiation at a step before open complex formation, as shown before for proU. This was shown by determining the occupancy of the bgl transcription unit by RNA polymerases, expression analysis of bgl and proU reporter constructs, and chloroacetaldehyde footprinting of RNA polymerase promoter complexes. The chloroacetaldehyde footprinting also revealed that RNA polymerase is “poised” at the osmoregulated σ70-dependent proU promoter at low osmolarity, whereas at high osmolarity poising of RNA polymerase and repression by H-NS are reduced. Furthermore, repression by H-NS via the URE and DRE is synergistic, and the efficiency of repression by H-NS via the DRE inversely correlates with the promoter activity. Repression is high for a promoter of low activity, whereas it is low for a strong promoter. Inefficient repression of strong promoters by H-NS via a DRE may account for high induction levels of proU at high osmolarity and for bgl upon disruption of the URE.
Abstract Naphtho[1,2-b]furan-4,5-dione (NFD), prepared from 2-hydroxy-1,4-naphthoquinone and chloroacetaldehyde in an efficient one-pot reaction, exhibits anti-carcinogenic effect. The results of present study showed that NFD inhibited the proliferation of breast cancer MDA-MB-231 cells through the induction of S-phase arrest and apoptosis. NFD-induced S-phase arrest was associated with a marked decrease in the protein expression of cyclin A, cyclin B, and cyclin-dependent kinase (Cdk)2. NFD-induced apoptosis was characterized by increase of sub-G1 population, phosphatidylserine (PS) externalization, and activation of caspases. Moreover, up-regulation of Bad and down-regulation of Bcl-2, Bcl-XL, and survivin led to the loss of mitochondrial membrane potential (ΔΨm), the release of cytochrome c and sequential activation of caspase-9 and caspase-3. NFD activated c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38 MAPK) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) in MDA-MB-231 cells. Inhibitors of JNK (SP600125) and ERK (PD98059), but not p38 MAPK (SB203580) suppressed NFD-induced S-phase arrest and apoptosis in MDA-MB-231 cells. Both SP600125 and PD98059 attenuated Bad up-regulation, and reversed down-regulation of Bcl-2, Bcl-XL, survivin, cyclin A, cyclin B, and Cdk2 in NFD-treated cells. Taken together, our data show that JNK and ERK-signaling pathways play important roles in NFD-mediated S-phase arrest and apoptosis of MDA-MB-231 cells.
Fluorescence spectroscopy was used to investigate the binding of Escherichia coli recA protein to a single-stranded polynucleotide. Poly(deoxy-1,N6-ethenoadenylic acid) was prepared by reaction of chloroacetaldehyde with poly(deoxyadenylic acid). The fluorescence of poly(deoxy-1,N6-ethenoadenylic acid) was enhanced upon recA protein binding. The kinetics of the binding process were studied as a function of several parameters: ionic concentration (KCl and MgCl2), pH, nature of the nucleoside triphosphate [adenosine 5'-triphosphate or adenosine 5'-O-(gamma-thiotriphosphate)], protein and polynucleotide concentrations, polynucleotide chain length, and order of sequential additions. The observed kinetic curves exhibited a lag phase followed by a slow binding process characteristic of a nucleation-elongation mechanism with an additional slow step governing the rate of the association process. The lag phase reflecting the nucleation step was not observed when the protein was first bound to the polynucleotide before addition of adenosine 5'-triphosphate. Adenosine 5'-triphosphate induced a dissociation of the recA protein, which was immediately followed by binding of the recA-adenosine 5'-triphosphate-Mg2+ ternary complex. The origin of this "mnemonic effect" and of the different kinetic steps is discussed with respect to protein conformational changes and aggregation phenomena.
Formal net charges, bond populations, atomic orbital coefficients, energy components and conformation of dimethyl-2,2-dichlorovinylphosphate have been studied theoretically by using the CNDO/2 molecular orbital calculation method in attempt to describe the reactivity and the stability of the molecule. From the analysis of rate equation, molecular orbital calculations and identification of the hydrolysis products, 2,2-dichloroacetaldehyde and dimethylphosphoric acid, a mechanism of the hydrolysis of dimethyl-2,2-dichlorovinylphosphate(DDVP) has been proposed. The hydrolysis of DDVP proceeds through the mechanism of nucleophilic addition, typical Micheal reaction in basic media. Therefore, it appears probable that the attack by strong nucleophile, hydroxide ion occurs at the increased positive charge atom of a staggered conformation due to the inductive effect (-)I>(+)R of 2,2-dichlorovinyl, electron-attracting group. And then, the hydrolytic scission involves the , in the subsequent reaction in aqueous solution.
Abstract 2-Chloroacetaldehyde (CAA)-induced cytotoxicity in isolated hepatocytes was enhanced markedly if hepatocyte alcohol or aldehyde dehydrogenase was inhibited prior to CAA addition. Hepatocyte GSH depletion, ATP depletion and lipid peroxidation by CAA were also enhanced markedly. Furthermore, CAA was about 10- and 70-fold more cytotoxic than its oxidative or reductive metabolite chloroacetate or chloroethanol, respectively. Nutrients such as lactate, xylitol, sorbitol or glycerol, which increase cytosolic NADH levels, prevented CAA cytotoxicity in normal hepatocytes but further enhanced cytotoxicity toward alcohol dehydrogenase inactivated hepatocytes, suggesting that increased cytosolic NADH reduces CAA via alcohol dehydrogenase in normal hepatocytes but prevents CAA oxidation in alcohol dehydrogenase inactivated hepatocytes. However, increasing cytosolic NADH levels with ethanol or NADH-generating nutrients after CAA had been metabolized also prevented cytotoxicity and caused a partial ATP recovery, whereas oxidation of cytosolic NADH with pyruvate markedly increased cytotoxicity. This indicates that cytotoxic CAA concentrations cause oxidative stress and that ATP levels can be restored if cellular redox homeostasis is normalized with reductants. Furthermore, except for fructose, nutrients that did not increase NADH did not affect CAA-induced cytotoxicity. Fructose also caused a partial ATP recovery, and its protection was prevented by the glycolytic inhibitor fluoride. Hepatocytes isolated from fasted animals were 4- to 6-fold more susceptible to CAA-induced ATP depletion and cytotoxicity. No lipid peroxidation occured at these lower CAA concentrations. Furthermore, all nutrients, including alanine, glutamine and glucose, prevented cytotoxicity toward hepatocytes isolated from fasted animals. The susceptibility of hepatocytes to CAA cytotoxicity, therefore, depends on both cellular redox homeostasis and cellular energy supply.
The nephrotoxicity of chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), one of the main products of hepatic ifosfamide metabolism, was compared in isolated human pediatric and adult renal tubules. Tubules metabolizing lactate were incubated in the presence of various concentrations of CAA (0.1-0.5 mM). Both at low, clinically relevant (0.2 mM), and at higher concentrations (0.3, 0.4 and 0.5 mM), CAA induced a cellular depletion of thiol compounds, i.e. glutathione, coenzyme A and acetyl-coenzyme A that are involved in CAA detoxication and cellular energy metabolism, respectively. The toxicity to renal cells was clearly observed in the presence of 0.4 and 0.5 mM CAA, which led to a fall of the cellular ATP level, to the accumulation of pyruvate and the inhibition of glucose synthesis from lactate. Inhibition of lactate uptake and an increase in the release of lactate dehydrogenase were observed only in the presence of 0.5 mM CAA. The sensitivity of pediatric tubules to the toxic effects of CAA and the rate of their CAA uptake were not statistically different from those found in adult tubules. It is concluded that an increased susceptibility of pediatric tubules to CAA toxicity cannot be put forward to explain the increased risk for ifosfamide-induced nephrotoxicity in children relative to adults.
The prodrome form of IFO in vitro is inactive. In order to express its alkylating action on DNA, IFO is metabolically reactivated with the help of enzymes of the P-45 cytochrome (Johnstone et al. 2000) . IFO is either converted to chloroacetaldehyde, presenting with severe nephrotoxicity (Lameire et al. 2011) , or is hydroxylated to C-4 of its oxynitrophosphoric ring in order to form the metabolites 4-hydroxy-ifosfamide and isoaldofosfamide (Storme et al. 2009 ). Isoaldofosfamide, through its spontaneous dissociation gives rise to akrolein and its alkylating metabolite, the isofosfamide mustard (Broadhead et al. 1998; Johnstone et al. 2000) . The derivatives, hydroxyl-ifosfamide and chloroacetaldehyde reduce the intracellular levels of glutathione, leading to the reinforcement of cytotoxicity of other cytostatic factors, such as doxorubicine (Malik et al. 1997) . Administration of IFO is related to the emergence of haemorrhagic cystitis through the action of akroleinis (Lawson et al. 2008; Glezerman 2009) .
It was shown earlier that the most convenient, and sometimes the only possible approach to the N-sulfonylimines of chloral and of dichloroacetaldehyde, involves radical reaction of N,Ndichloroamides of sulfonic acids with trichloroethylene and 1,2-dichloroethylene, respectively. [1] [2] [3] 
The separation of common and modified deoxyribonucleosides derived from DNA hydrolyzates was examined under different chromatographic conditions on silica-based octadecyl (C18) columns, involving hydrophobic interactions with the matrix. A novel method for the analysis of the DNA composition is described. It involves the removal of RNA contaminants and enzymatic hydrolysis of DNA, first to deoxyribonucleoside monophosphates and then dephosphorylation of the latter to deoxyribonucleosides. Hydrolysis conditions were sought to avoid deamination of dA and dC residues to dI and dU contaminants, respectively. Elution of these contaminants and the artifacts (ribonucleosides derived from RNA) is described in relation to the elution of deoxyribonucleosides. Chromatographic separation of the hydrolyzate derived from a 15-micrograms sample of DNA under selected separation conditions and on one high-performance liquid chromatographic column is achieved in 18 min at room temperature. Detection of modified components (and contaminants) present in minute amounts is enhanced with the use of a diode-array detector. The power of this technique lies in its ability to characterize and quantitate accurately the amount of modified species present in the DNA structure (less than 2% of all the other residues). Examples of the composition analysis of DNA derived from a prokaryote (Escherichia coli B) and a eukaryote (salmon sperm) are described. Details of quantitation (calibration graphs) of different nucleosides are furnished for peak-area integration by commercially available software, and spectral properties of the nucleoside in the elution buffer are described for quantitation by other means. Application of the composition analysis is shown here for probing the DNA conformation in solution by chemical means, while using chloroacetaldehyde as the modifying agent.
The synthesis of several α-substituted N-Boc-protected prolines has been achieved by cross metathesis (CM) of N-Boc-allylproline 5 with terminal long chain alkenes and alkenes bearing hydroxy, silyloxy, ester, and O-acetylglucosamido groups. The CM occurred with good selectivity and short reaction time under microwave heating conditions, affording yields in the range of 40–92 %. Addition of Ti(OiPr)4 as a Lewis acid allowed a slight increase of the yield in the case of alkenes with Lewis basic substituents. The CM was also successfully applied to allylproline protected with trichloroacetaldehyde 4, but the intermediate products were less practical for further deprotection and elaboration. (© Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, 69451 Weinheim, Germany, 2008)
Abstract A detector tube is described in which amine vapors cause decomposition of a chloral-dichloroacetaldehyde copolymer. Detection signal is based on the dissolution of the dye pinacyanole by the liberated chloroacetaldehyde monomers. Of the 77 amines tested, ammonia, allylamine, n -butylamine, isobutylamine, sec -butylamine, cyclohexylamine, diethylamine, dibutylamine, dipropylamine, and piperidine gave strongest tests. The limit of detection of diethylamine is approximately 2 μg. The sensitivity is increased about one order of magnitude if solution techniques are employed. Interferences appear to be few since 71 compounds representing 21 classes of compounds did not give a test.
8) The first involves 4-hydroxylation to the active metabolite, 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide (4-OH-CPA). This conversion is carried out predominantly by cytochrome P450 CYP2B6 in humans. 9, 10) 4-OH-CPA exists in equilibrium with aldophosphamide, which is broken down to form the DNA cross-linking agent phosphoramide mustard and the toxic metabolite acrolein. [11] [12] [13] The alternative pathway involves a CYP3A4-mediated N-dechloroethylation of CPA to form the inactive metabolite 3-dechloroethylcyclophosphamide (DECP) and the toxic byproduct chloroacetaldehyde. 11, 14, 15) In humans, this pathway is secondary to the activation pathway and accounts for less than 10% of the dose.
[10] With this regard, it has been shown that halohydrins could additionally be stabilized by the presence of an intramolecular H-bond between the alcohol moiety and the halogen atom, [11] which, on the other hand, could also block the ADH-catalyzed oxidation. Therefore, this behavior seems not to be a particular feature of ADH-catalyzed processes, but rather a general aspect of this type of substrate. Thus, the MPVO-HT (Scheme 1B) of α-halogenated carbonyl compounds also proceeds quasi-irreversibly. In particular, chloral (trichloroacetaldehyde), [12] α-chloroacetophenone, [13] α-bromoacetophenone, [13a] and 1,1,1-trifluoroacetone [14] have been quantitatively reduced when employed as stoichiometric hydrogen acceptors in the presence of alcohols like 2-propanol by using different Al or Zr complexes as catalysts. [15] Ketones bearing electron-withdrawing groups (EWGs) are tacitly regarded as electron-deficient ketones and, hence, can be more readily attacked by nucleophiles (e.g., hydride) than "nonactivated" ketones, which would lead to higher reduction rates. On the other hand, it has also been argued that α-halo substituents increase the stability of the corresponding alcohols by destabilizing the partial positive charge formed during their oxidation, [16] thus leading to higher energy transition states for the reverse reaction and, hence, to an increase of the activation energy for the oxidation of halohydrins. This aspect is in favor of both a kinetic blockade of the oxidation of this kind of alcohol and the commonly accepted fact that the Oppenauer oxidation of alcohols is under thermodynamic control, i.e. the final composition of the reaction mixture is solely determined by the reduction potentials of the ketones/aldehydes involved. [4] In summary, to explain the conversion in this type of process a variety of kinetic and thermodynamic hypotheses have been put forward. In order to provide an unambiguous rationale for the final conversion of these HT reductions we have studied here the redox equilibrium of a series of selected ketones. The main goals were the correlation of the conversions observed with the catalyst employed and the structure of the substrates, as well as the extent of the influence of kinetics and thermodynamics. To achieve this goal, we undertook a combined experimental and theoretical approach in which, first, several ketone/alcohol complexes bound to the Rspecific NADPH-dependent alcohol dehydrogenase from Lactobacillus brevis (LBADH) [17] were structurally analyzed. Next, the corresponding aluminum-catalyzed MPVO-HT reactions were carried out to observe the influence of the catalyst in these processes. Finally, the enzymatic initial rates and the IR absorption bands of the carbonyl groups were measured, and ab initio calculations of the ketone/alcohol pairs were performed. As a result, a general method to predict the degree of conversion in the HT-reduction of a given ketone was proposed, and a strategy to achieve the HT oxidation of halohydrins was developed.
Nine male and eight female healthy volunteers were exposed to 50 or 100 ppm trichloroethylene vapors for 4 h. Blood, urine, and exhaled breath samples were collected for development of a physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) model for trichloroethylene and its two major P450-mediated metabolites, trichloroacetic acid and free trichloroethanol. Blood and urine were analyzed for trichloroethylene, chloral hydrate, free trichloroethanol and trichloroethanol glucuronide, and trichloroacetic acid. Plasma was analyzed for dichloroacetic acid. Trichloroethylene was also measured in exhaled breath samples. Trichloroethylene, free trichloroethanol, and trichloroacetic acid were found in blood samples of all volunteers and only trace amounts of dichloroacetic acid (4-12 ppb) were found in plasma samples from a few volunteers. Trichloroethanol glucuronide and trichloroacetic acid were found in urine of all volunteers. No chloral hydrate was detected in the volunteers. Gender-specific PBPK models were developed with fitted urinary rate constant values for each individual trichloroethylene exposure to describe urinary excretion of trichloroethanol glucuronide and trichloroacetic acid. Individual urinary excretion rate constants were necessary to account for the variability in the measured cumulative amount of metabolites excreted in the urine. However, the average amount of trichloroacetic acid and trichloroethanol glucuronide excreted in urine for each gender was predicted using mean urinary excretion rate constant values for each sex. A four-compartment physiological flow model was used for the metabolites (lung, liver, kidney, and body) and a six-compartment physiological flow model was used for trichloroethylene (lung, liver, kidney, fat, and slowly and rapidly perfused tissues). Metabolic capacity (Vmaxc) for oxidation of trichloroethylene was estimated to be 4 mg/kg/h in males and 5 mg/kg/h in females. Metabolized trichloroethylene was assumed to be converted to either free trichloroethanol (90%) or trichloroacetic acid (10%). Free trichloroethanol was glucuronidated forming trichloroethanol glucuronide or converted to trichloroacetic acid via back conversion of trichloroethanol to chloral (trichloroacetaldehyde). Trichloroethanol glucuronide and trichloroacetic acid were then excreted in urine. Gender-related pharmacokinetic differences in the uptake and metabolism of trichloroethylene were minor, but apparent. In general, the PBPK models for the male and female volunteers provided adequate predictions of the uptake of trichloroethylene and distribution of trichloroethylene and its metabolites, trichloroacetic acid and free trichloroethanol. The PBPK models for males and females consistently overpredicted exhaled breath concentrations of trichloroethylene immediately following the TCE exposure for a 2- to 4-h period. Further research is needed to better understand the biological determinants responsible for the observed variability in urinary excretion of trichloroethanol glucuronide and trichloroacetic acid and the metabolic pathway resulting in formation of dichloroacetic acid.
Minimum potential energy helical conformations for a family of four isotactic polyacetaldehydes have been determined. Our results indicate that all of the polymers form irrational helices. Comparisons have been made with the reported structures for two of these stereoregular polymers based on earlier X-ray diffraction data. c-Axis values associated with the pitch of the helix for polyacetaldehyde and for polytrichloroacetaldehyde (polychloral) were experimentally measured to be 0.48 and 0.51 nm, respectively. Our calculated conformations afforded values for a helix pitch of 0.47 and 0.52 nm, respectively, which derive from a 3.9/1 helix for polyacetaldehyde and a 3.7/1 helix for polychloral. The structure for polytribromoacetaldehyde (polybromal) was predicted to be similar to that for polychloral. For polytrifluoroacetaldehyde (polyfluoral) and polyacetaldehyde, a number of helical conformations with similar energies were found. All of these conformations could be related to the polychloral helical structure. © 1998 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. J Polym Sci A: Polym Chem 36: 1855–1860, 1998
Ifosfamide is an antineoplastic agent that requires hepatic activation to the cytotoxic active metabolite ifosforamide mustard. During metabolism, the byproduct, chloroacetaldehyde, which is structurally similar to both chloral hydrate and acetaldehyde, is produced. Secondary to its ability to cross the blood-brain barrier, this metabolite may be responsible for the neurotoxicity observed with ifosfamide. Any case of suspected ifosfamide-induced neurotoxicity, together with a decision to treat, must be determined on an individual patient basis. The differential diagnosis should include infection, laboratory abnormalities, and concomitant drugs. At this time, literature to support treatment modalities such as intravenous albumin and methylene blue is minimal.
1,N6-Etheno-2'-deoxyadenosine (epsilon dAdo) and 3,N4-etheno-2'-deoxycytidine (epsilon dCyd) are formed in vitro by reaction of DNA with the electrophilic metabolites of vinyl chloride (VC), chloroethylene oxide and chloroacetaldehyde. To detect and quantitate these DNA adducts in vivo, we have raised a series of specific monoclonal antibodies (Mab). Among those, Mab EM-A-1 and Mab EM-C-1, respectively, were used for detection of epsilon dAdo and epsilon dCyd by competitive radioimmunoassay (RIA), following pre-separation of the etheno adducts from DNA hydrolysates by high performance liquid chromatography. At 50% inhibition of tracer-antibody binding, both Mab had a detection limit of 187 fmol and antibody affinity constants (K) of 2 x 10(9) l/mol. The levels of epsilon dAdo and epsilon dCyd were quantitated in the DNA of lung and liver tissue of young Sprague-Dawley rats exposed to 2000 p.p.m. of VC for 10 days. The epsilon dAdo/2'-deoxyadenosine and epsilon dCyd/2'-deoxycytidine molar ratios were 1.3 x 10(-7) and 3.3 x 10(-7), respectively, in lung DNA, and 5.0 x 10(-8) and 1.6 x 10(-7) in liver DNA. When hydrolysates of 3 mg of DNA were analyzed by RIA at 25% inhibition of tracer-antibody binding, epsilon dAdo and epsilon dCyd were not detected in liver DNA from untreated rats above the limiting epsilon dAdo/2'-deoxyadenosine and epsilon dCyd/2'-deoxycytidine molar ratios of 2.2 x 10(-8) and 3.1 x 10(-8), respectively.
Haloacetaldehydes can be employed for probing unpaired DNA structures involving cytosine and adenine residues. Using an enzyme that was structurally proven to flip its target cytosine out of the DNA helix, the HhaI DNA methyltransferase (M.HhaI), we demonstrate the suitability of the chloroacetaldehyde modification for mapping extrahelical (flipped-out) cytosine bases in protein–DNA complexes. The generality of this method was verified with two other DNA cytosine-5 methyltransferases, M.AluI and M.SssI, as well as with two restriction endonucleases, R.Ecl18kI and R.PspGI, which represent a novel class of base-flipping enzymes. Our results thus offer a simple and convenient laboratory tool for detection and mapping of flipped-out cytosines in protein–DNA complexes.
Chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) is a chlorination by-product in finished drinking water and a toxic metabolite of a wide variety of industrial chemicals (e.g. vinyl chloride) and chemotherapeutic agents (e.g. cyclophosphamide and ifosfamide). In this research, the cytotoxic mechanisms of CAA in freshly isolated rat hepatocytes were investigated.CAA cytotoxicity was associated with reactive oxygen species (ROS) formation and glutathione depletion suggesting that oxidative stress contributed to the CAA cytotoxic mechanism. CAA-induced oxidative stress cytotoxicity markers were significantly prevented by antioxidants, ROS scavengers, mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT) pore sealing agents, endocytosis inhibitors, ATP generators and xanthine oxidase inhibitor. In our study the hepatocyte mitochondrial membrane potential was rapidly decreased by CAA which was prevented by antioxidants and ROS scavenger indicating that mitochondrial membrane damage was a consequence of ROS formation. CAA cytotoxicity was also associated with lysosomal membrane rupture. Our findings showed that at least four different intracellular sources including: metabolic enzymes cytochrome P 450 and xanthine oxidase, mitochondrial respiratory chain disruption and lysosomal Haber-weiss reaction, were involved in CAA induced ROS formation and other subsequent cytotoxic events. Our other interesting finding was that the lysosomotropic agents prevented CAA induced mitochondrial membrane potential collapse and mitochondrial MPT pore sealing agents inhibited lysosomal membrane damage caused by CAA. It can therefore be suggested that there is probably a toxic interaction (cross-talk) between mitochondrial and lysosomal oxidative stress generating systems, which potentiates each organelle damage and ROS formation in CAA- induced hepatotoxicity.
Haloacetaldehydes can be employed for probing unpaired DNA structures involving cytosine and adenine residues. Using an enzyme that was structurally proven to flip its target cytosine out of the DNA helix, the HhaI DNA methyltransferase (M.HhaI), we demonstrate the suitability of the chloroacetaldehyde modification for mapping extrahelical (flippedout) cytosine bases in protein-DNA complexes. The generality of this method was verified with two other DNA cytosine-5 methyltransferases, M.AluI and M.SssI, as well as with two restriction endonucleases, R.Ecl18kI and R.PspGI, which represent a novel class of base-flipping enzymes. Our results thus offer a simple and convenient laboratory tool for detection and mapping of flipped-out cytosines in protein-DNA complexes.
Chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) is a chlorination by-product in finished drinking water and a toxic metabolite of a wide variety of industrial chemicals (e.g. vinyl chloride) and chemotherapeutic agents (e.g. cyclophosphamide and ifosfamide).
Hydroperoxytetrahydrofuran (THF-OOH) can be employed tosequence cytosine (C)andtoprobefor non-canonical DNA structures involving C.Using 32P-labeled oligomers andaDNArestriction fragment, itisdemonstrated that THF-OOHhasastrong prefer- enceforCsinsingle-stranded (s-s) DNAregions, and inbulges, loops andmismatches. Thereactivity ofCis diminished belowpH 6.0,butisnotaffected by substitution of5-methylcytosine. Todemonstrate the utility ofthereagent, itisdirectly compared to methoxylamine andchloroacetaldehyde, twoother reagents commonlyusedtochemically probeC residues innon-Watson-Crick DNAstructures.
A novel series of tricyclic, etheno-bridged purine analogs was sythesized from 2-amino-6-(substituted amino)-9-methylpurines by cyclization with chloroacetaldehyde, with particular focus on the regioselectivity of the cyclization reaction and fluorescence properties. The analogs as well as the starting purines were alkylated with iodomethane, affording a new class of quaternary salts with potential biological activity. Neither significant fluorescence nor cytostatic effect was found.
Among the chemotherapeutics endowed with nephrotoxicity, oxazaphosphorine alkylating agents should be mentioned. These compounds include cyclophosphamide (CP), ifosfamide and less frequently used trofosfamide. CP is used in chemotherapy of both solid tumors and acute leukemia and is used as an immunosuppressant in nonneoplastic disorders (systemic lupus erythematosus and rheumatoid arthritis). Ifosfamide (IF) is also an effective agent used in treatment of solid tumors, including testicular cancer, rhabdomyosarcoma, Wilms' tumor, Ewing's sarcoma, bone sarcomas, osteosarcoma and neuroblastoma as well as some forms of lymphoma [3, 5] . The main ADR of CP is hemorrhagic cystitis, induced by acrolein -a toxic product released during CP biotransformation. Ifosfamide shares with cyclophosphamide a toxic profile characterized by urotoxicity. Moreover, IF is considered to be more nephrotoxic compared to CP [2, 3, 5] . That is due to the fact that biotransformation of IF leads to a principal release of chloroacetaldehyde that is attributed to exert a more powerful nephrotoxic effect compared to acrolein [6] . To sum up, nephrotoxicity of oxazaphosphorine agents depends on the type of drug (CP vs. IF), the applied dose, the route of administration, the total time of treatment, the presence of other co-existing factors predisposing to nephrotoxicity [2, 4] . That multitude of nephrotoxicity-determining factors also results in a varied clinical description of kidney damage evoked by use of those agents. Moreover, published reports of kidney damage evoked by oxazaphosphorine administration are only partial, based on the different nature of the assessment (imaging studies, selected biochemical parameters), so any more complex laboratory analysis of the issue is still missing.
The synergistic effect of chlorinated chemicals and 0.1% griseofulvin (GF) on porphyrin metabolism was investigated. Drinking water containing 0.03% trichlorosalicylanilid, 0.1% 4-chloro-m-cresol, 0.1% trichlorophenoxyacetic acid, 0.3% trichloroethanol, 0.1% trichloromethiazide, 0.3% trichlorofon and 0.1% trichloroacetaldehyde was given separately to dd-y strain mice. Each group was divided into two subgroups, one treated with feed containing 0.1% GF and the other treated with normal feed. The treatments were continued for 45 to 165 days, after which porphyrins in the erythrocytes, feces and liver were analyzed by a chromatographic method. In the 0.03% trichlorosalicylanilid and 0.1% GF group, 0.1% 4-chloro-m-cresol and 0.1% GF group, 0.1% trichlorophenoxyacetic acid and 0.1% GF group and 0.3% trichloroethanol and 0.1% GF group, a slight elevation of fecal coproporphyrin and protoporphyrin was seen. There was no elevation of hepatic and erythrocytic porphyrins. This result shows that the chemicals used in this study did not have a potential for porphyria, but that they are capable of inducing slight porphyrin abnormalities in a synergistic reaction with 0.1% GF.
Ifosfamide (IF) nephrotoxicity is a serious adverse effect in children undergoing chemotherapy. Previous studies have shown that, in addition to the renal production of chloroacetaldehyde, a toxic metabolite of IF, lower levels of glutathione (GSH) may predispose the kidney to damage. The antioxidant N-acetylcysteine (NAC) is used extensively as an antidote for acetaminophen poisoning in children by replenishing GSH levels. As it has been safely and effectively used clinically, the objective of this study was to test whether the reversal of ifosfamide-induced nephrotoxicity can be achieved by administering NAC. Supplementation with NAC may reduce or prevent the degree of cellular cytotoxicity induced by IF. Porcine renal proximal tubular (LLCPK-1) cells were treated with NAC (0.4 mM or 2.5 mM) concurrently with 1 mM IF and 50 microM L-buthionine sulfoximine (BSO). Cellular viability was assessed by alamarBlue assay at 96 h. Intracellular GSH and oxidized GSH (GSSG) levels were determined using a GSH/GSSG colorimetric detection kit. A significant 60% decrease in cellular viability occurred when cells were treated daily with BSO and IF for 96 h. This decrease was significantly reduced when cells were concurrently treated with NAC in a concentration-dependent manner. Intracellular and total GSH levels in cells receiving concurrent treatment of NAC were significantly higher than those without NAC treatment. NAC protects renal tubular cells from IF-induced cytotoxicity. It is likely that NAC is protecting the cells by partially acting as a precursor for GSH synthesis. This mode of therapy may allow for protecting children from life-threatening nephrotoxicity induced by IF.
Chloral-1,2-14C hydrate was prepared by direct chlorination of labeled acetaldehyde in an overall 47% radiochemical yield. The reaction was carried out without a catalyst by heating at one temperature in a single stage reaction. No lower chloroacetaldehydes were detected.
In vitro studies have demonstrated that two different metabolic pathways, glutathione conjugation mediated by the glutathione S-transferases and microsomal oxidation, may be involved in the genotoxicity and carcinogenicity of 1,2-dichloroethane (DCE). To evaluate the importance of microsomal oxidative metabolism in the bioactivation of DCE in vivo, male B6C3F1 mice were pretreated with piperonyl butoxide (PIB), an inhibitor of microsomal oxidative metabolism, and the effect of this pretreatment on the extent of hepatic DNA damage produced by DCE was determined 4 hr after DCE administration. The in vivo genotoxicity of 2-chloroethanol, a product of the microsomal oxidative metabolism of DCE, was also investigated. Hepatic DNA damage was measured with a sensitive, alkaline DNA unwinding assay for the presence of single-strand breaks and alkali-labile lesions in DNA. Pretreatment of mice with PIB to inhibit microsomal oxidative metabolism significantly potentiated the hepatic DNA damage observed 4 hr after a single, 200-mg/kg, ip dose of DCE. Treatment of mice with single, ip doses of 2-chloroethanol as high as 1.2 mmol/kg failed to produce any evidence of single-strand breaks and/or alkali-labile lesions in hepatic DNA. When diethyl maleate (DEM) was used to deplete hepatic glutathione levels prior to administration of 2-chloroethanol, the acute hepatotoxicity of 2-chloroethanol was potentiated but again there was no evidence of hepatic damage. These results indicate that microsomal, oxidative metabolism of DCE to 2-chloroethanol and/or 2 chloroacetaldehyde is not responsible for the hepatic DNA damage observed in these studies after DCE administration.
In vitro studies have demonstrated that two different metabolic pathways, glutathione conjugation mediated by the glutathione S-transferases and microsomal oxidation, may be involved in the genotoxicity and carcinogenicity of 1,2-dichloroethane (DCE). To evaluate the importance of microsomal oxidative metabolism in the bioactivation of DCE in vivo, male B6C3F1 mice were pretreated with piperonyl butoxide (PIB), an inhibitor of microsomal oxidative metabolism, and the effect of this pretreatment on the extent of hepatic DNA damage produced by DCE was determined 4 hr after DCE administration. The in vivo genotoxicity of 2-chloroethanol, a product of the microsomal oxidative metabolism of DCE, was also investigated. Hepatic DNA damage was measured with a sensitive, alkaline DNA unwinding assay for the presence of single-strand breaks and alkali-labile lesions in DNA. Pretreatment of mice with PIB to inhibit microsomal oxidative metabolism significantly potentiated the hepatic DNA damage observed 4 hr after a single, 200-mg/kg, ip dose of DCE. Treatment of mice with single, ip doses of 2-chloroethanol as high as 1.2 mmol/kg failed to produce any evidence of single-strand breaks and/or alkali-labile lesions in hepatic DNA. When diethyl maleate (DEM) was used to deplete hepatic ghrtathione levels prior to administration of 2-chloroethanol, the acute hepatotoxicity of 2-chloroethanol was potentiated but again there was no evidence of hepatic DNA damage. These results indicate that microsomal, oxidative metabolism of DCE to 2-chloroethanol and/or 2 chloroacetaldehyde is not responsible for the hepatic DNA damage observed in these studies after DCE administration. 8 1985 Academic press. IW.
2-Chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) formed during the metabolism of the anti-cancer drug ifosfamide (IP) has been implicated in ifosfamide-related neurotoxicity during chemotherapy but the neurotoxic mechanisms are unknown. We have found that IP (900 mg kg-1, p.o.) caused lethargy and mild hind limb paralysis after 6 h. Neurotoxicity and IP-induced mortality was markedly enhanced in mice pretreated with either phenobarbital or dexamethasone to induce cytochrome P4503A. Cerebral glutathione (GSH) levels were also markedly depleted in these pretreated mice. 2-Chloroethanol (92 mg kg-1, i.p.) (CE) also caused a 50% reduction in cerebral GSH 6 h after administration to mice. At this time maximum lethargy and unresponsiveness to touch was apparent in CE-treated mice. Severe hind limb paralysis developed and death ensued 12-18 h later. Prior depletion of cerebral GSH with 2-cyclohexene-1-one greatly accelerated the onset of CE-induced neurotoxicity suggesting that cerebral GSH status is an important determinant of CE-induced neurotoxicity. Furthermore, pretreatment with N-acetylcysteine delayed both CE-induced neurotoxicity and cerebral GSH depletion. Induction of cerebral but not hepatic CYP2E1 by ethanol before CE challenge also potentiated CE-induced cerebral GSH depletion and neurotoxicity. Hepatic GSH depletion was unaffected suggesting that CE-induced paralysis is dependent on a cerebral but not a hepatic CYP2E1 catalysed oxidation of CE to CAA. Ethanol was neuroprotective even if given 60 min after CE and prevented further cerebral GSH depletion. 4-Methylpyrazole, a CYP2E1 and alcohol dehydrogenase inhibitor, prevented both CE-induced hepatic and cerebral GSH depletion and paralysis. This suggests that the neurotoxicity associated with IP chemotherapy involves activation of chloroethanol by cerebral CYP2E1 to chloroacetaldehyde which mediates cerebral GSH depletion. Neurotoxicity may be prevented by restoring cerebral GSH status and/or by preventing activation of CE by CYP2E1 with ethanol.
The complete mineralization of trichloroethylene (Cl2CCClH), in dilute aqueous solutions, to HCl and CO2 is demonstrated with heterogeneous photoassisted catalysis using illuminated titanium dioxide (TiO2). An intermediate, dichloroacetaldehyde, is identified, and a photoassisted reaction sequence is proposed. A simple Langmuirian rate equation satisfactorily represents both the disappearance of initial reactant, trichloroethylene, and intermediate, dichloroacetaldehyde, as well as the inhibitory influence of product HCl. The present paper and two related reports (A. L. Pruden and D. F. Ollis, Environ. Sci. Technol., in press; C.-Y. Hsiao, C.-L. Lee, and D. F. Ollis, J. Catal. 82, 418 (1983)) establishing mineralization of chloromethanes, indicate some potential for removal of the two most common chlorocarbon contaminants from water via heterogeneous photocatalysis.
2-Chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) induced a loss in hepatocyte viability in a concentration- and time-dependent manner. Three phases before cytotoxicity ensued could be distinguished. Glutathione (GSH) was depleted immediately upon addition of CAA but only partial depletion occurred with subtoxic CAA concentrations. GSH-depleted hepatocytes were much more susceptible to CAA toxicity, indicating that CAA was detoxified by GSH. The second phase of changes involved a steady decrease in protein thiol levels, mitochondrial respiration, transmembrane potential and ATP levels. The third phase involved lipid peroxidation which commenced at around 60 min with a CAA concentration that caused 50% cytotoxicity in 120 min. Addition of antioxidants (diphenylphenylenediamine, butylated hydroxyanisole) and iron chelators (desferoxamine) at 40 min prevented lipid peroxidation and delayed CAA-induced cytotoxicity without restoring protein thiols, hepatocyte respiration or preventing further ATP depletion. Addition of dithiothreitol at 40 min, however, restored protein thiols and hepatocyte respiration, and prevented further ATP depletion and cytotoxicity. CAA-induced hepatocyte cytotoxicity therefore involved reversible thiol protein adduct formation, mitochondrial toxicity and lipid peroxidation.
Abstract Haloacetaldehydes (HAs) are becoming the most widespread disinfection by-products (DBPs) found in drinking water, besides trihalomethanes and haloacetic acids, generated by the interaction of chemical disinfectants with organic matter naturally present in water. Because of their high potential toxicity, HAs have currently received a singular attention, especially trichloroacetaldehyde (chloral hydrate, CH), the most common and abundant compound found in treated water. The aims of this study are focused on the miniaturisation of EPA Method 551.1, including some innovations such as the use of ethyl acetate as the extracting solvent, the enhancement of HAs stability in aqueous solutions by adjusting the pH ∼3.2 and the use of a large-volume sample injection (30 μL) coupled to programmed temperature vaporizer–gas chromatography–mass spectrometry to improve both sensitivity and selectivity. In optimised experimental conditions, the limits of detection for the 7 HAs studied ranged from 6 to 20 ng/L. Swimming pools have recently been recognized as an important source of exposure to DBPs and as a result, in this research for the first time, HAs have been determined in this type of water. Two HAs have been found in the analysed water: CH at concentrations between 1.2–38 and 53–340 μg/L and dichloroacetaldehyde between 0.07–4.0 and 1.8–23 μg/L in tap and swimming pool waters, respectively.
Abstract Transmission infrared spectra of untreated titania reveal that the surface is highly hydrated and contains both hydroxyl groups and chemisorbed water, and that in this state the surface does not chemisorb trichloroethylene (TCE). Near-ultraviolet (UV) illumination in the presence of TCE vapor leads to desorption of molecular water and subsequent formation of several adsorbed hydrocarbon intermediates and carbon dioxide. Formation of bands at 1609 and 1302 cm −1 suggests the presence of an adsorbed dichlorinated olefin. An intense band at 1743 cm − is assigned to the symmetric CO stretch of dichloroacetaldehyde. Comparison of the OH stretching regions of the spectra collected during illumination in the absence of TCE to those collected during illumination shows that hydroxyls are consumed in the TCE oxidation reaction. These observations are consistent with a mechanism in which water desorption is a prerequisite “trigger” step for oxygen adsorption and subsequent reactive hydroxyl radical and hydroperoxide radical formation, as well as for TCE adsorption. The evidence suggests that attack of adsorbed olefinic derivatives of TCE by hydroxyl radicals or by hydroperoxide radicals leads to production of the aldehydic intermediate. Ultraviolet illumination stimulates desorption of product CO 2 molecules formed by further attack of the aldehyde by reactive radicals and surface decomposition of the resulting intermediates.
The invention relates to a synthetic method of ethyl 3-aldehyde-6-bromoimidazo[1,2-a]pyridine-8-formate. The method comprises the following steps: carrying out a substitution reaction on ethyl 2-aminonicotinate and N-bromosuccinimide in a certain solvent at normal temperature to prepare ethyl 2-amino-5-bromonicotinate; and reacting2-amino-5-bromonicotinate with N,N-dimethylformamide dimethyl acetal at 30-150DEG C to prepare an intermediate, reacting the intermediate with chloroacetaldehyde in a certain solvent at 60-160DEG C without purifying the intermediate, cooling, and drying to obtain ethyl 3-aldehyde-6-bromoimidazo[1,2-a]pyridine-8-formate. The method has the advantages of easily available reaction raw materials, reasonable price, mild reaction conditions, easy operation, easy control and simple post-treatment, and the above obtained product has the advantages of stable quality and high purity.
The Fanconi syndrome is a common side effect of the chemotherapeutic agent ifosfamide. Current evidences suggest that chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), one of the main metabolites of ifosfamide activation, contributes to its nephrotoxicity. However, the pathophysiology of CAA-induced Fanconi syndrome is not fully understood. The present work examined the adverse effects of CAA on precision-cut rat renal cortical slices, which allowed studying the toxic effect of CAA on proximal endocytosis. We demonstrated that clinically relevant concentrations of CAA (< or =200 microM) are able to inhibit the uptake of horseradish peroxidase, a marker of proximal tubular cell endocytosis in renal tubular proximal cells. CAA > or =75 microM has adverse effects, both on viability parameters and on energy metabolism, as shown by the great decrease in total glutathione and ATP levels. In addition, the V-ATPase, which plays a crucial role in intracellular vesicle trafficking, was inhibited by 100 microM of CAA. By contrast, the slight decrease in Na-K-ATPase activity observed for CAA> or = 125 microM (maximum inhibition: 33%) could not totally explain the inhibition of the reabsorption processes. In conclusion, the addition of the two main adverse effects of CAA (decrease in ATP levels and inhibition of the V-ATPase) could explain the inhibition of endocytosis and the Fanconi syndrome observed during ifosfamide treatments.
Etheno-derivatives of 2-aminopurine, 2-aminopurine riboside, and 7-deazaadenosine (tubercidine) were prepared and purified using standard methods. 2-Aminopurine reacted with aqueous chloroacetaldehyde to give two products, both exhibiting substrate activity towards bacterial (E. coli) purine-nucleoside phosphorylase (PNP) in the reverse (synthetic) pathway. The major product of the chemical synthesis, identified as 1,N2-etheno-2-aminopurine, reacted slowly, while the second, minor, but highly fluorescent product, reacted rapidly. NMR analysis allowed identification of the minor product as N2,3-etheno-2-aminopurine, and its ribosylation product as N2,3-etheno-2-aminopurine-N2-β-d-riboside. Ribosylation of 1,N2-etheno-2-aminopurine led to analogous N2-β-d-riboside of this base. Both enzymatically produced ribosides were readily phosphorolysed by bacterial PNP to the respective bases. The reaction of 2-aminopurine-N9-β -d-riboside with chloroacetaldehyde gave one major product, clearly distinct from that obtained from the enzymatic synthesis, which was not a substrate for PNP. A tri-cyclic 7-deazaadenosine (tubercidine) derivative was prepared in an analogous way and shown to be an effective inhibitor of the E. coli, but not of the mammalian enzyme. Fluorescent complexes of amino-purine analogs with E. coli PNP were observed.
Chemotherapeutic drugs affect the metabolism of tumor cells regardless of the specific target of action. Basic parameters of cell metabolism are extrusion of acids into the microenvironment and oxygen consumption. To analyze these changes on living cells in real-time, a test system based on multiparametric chips with an array of sensors for monitoring pH and O(2) as well as electric impedance has been developed. Cells are cultivated on these chips and supplied with medium by a fluid perfusion set-up which mimics microphysiological conditions and allows for drug addition and removal. Human colon carcinoma cells LS174T were used as a model to test the effect of drugs. Cells growing on chips were monitored for 24 h and longer. Untreated cells showed a continuous increase in the rate of acidification, while the rate of respiration remained fairly constant. Addition of chloroacetaldehyde (50 microM) rapidly attenuated O(2) consumption with a gradual decrease in acidification following. In contrast, with cisplatin (16.7 microM) a delayed and gradual decrease in both the rates of acidification and respiration effect occurred over 2-3 days. These results provide insights to the mechanisms of action of these drugs, which are coherent with those already known. Thus, multiparametric sensor chips provide elementary information on drug action.
Abstract A novel method has been developed for the coupling of modified polysaccharides to proteins or other amines. Chloroacetaldehyde dimethyl acetal has been used for the introduction of O -(2,2-dimethoxyethyl) groups into amylose, dextran, and a linear (1→3)-β- d -glucan. In amylose and the (1→3)-β- d -glucan, these groups were attached preponderantly at O-6 and in dextran at O-2. Mild treatment with acid then gave polysaccharide derivatives substituted with aldehyde groups which were coupled in good yields to proteins and other amines by reductive amination with sodium cyanoborohydride in aqueous solution at pH 7. An aminated (1→3)-β- d -glucan derivative that induced antitumor activity in mouse macrophages in vitro is reported.
Abstract Objectives. The hypothesis of this study was that metabolites of trichloroethylene (TCE), dichloroethylene (DCE) and related compounds were responsible for fetal cardiac teratogenic effects seen when TCE or DCE is consumed by pregnant rats during organogenesis. Identification of teratogenic metabolites would allow more accurate assessment of environmental contaminants and public health risks from contaminated water or possibly municipal water supplies which, when chlorinated, may produce these potentially dangerous chemicals. Background. Human epidemiologic studies and previous teratogenic studies using chick embryos and fetal rats have shown an increased incidence of congenital cardiac lesions in animals exposed to TCE and DCE. Methods. Metabolites and compounds studied in drinking water exposure included: trichloroacetic acid (TCAA), monochloroacetic acid (MCAA), trichloroethanol (TCEth), carboxy methylcystine (CMC), trichloroacetaldehyde (TCAld), dichloroacetaldehyde (DCAld), and dichlorovinyl cystine (DCVC). Compounds were administered to pregnant rats during fetal heart development. Results. Fetuses of rats receiving 2,730 ppm TCAA in drinking water were the only group that demonstrated a significant increase in cardiac defects (10.53%) compared with controls (2.15%) on a per fetus basis (p = 0.0001, Fischer’s exact test), and a per litter basis (p = 0.0004, Wilcoxon and p = 0.0015, exact permutation tests). Trichloroacetic acid also demonstrated an increased number of implantation and resorption sites (p Conclusions. Of the metabolites tested, only TCAA appeared to be a specific cardiac teratogen in the fetus when imbibed by the maternal rat.
Renal injury is a common side effect of the chemotherapeutic agent ifosfamide. Current evidence suggests that the ifosfamide metabolite chloroacetaldehyde contributes to this nephrotoxicity. The present study examined the effects of chloroacetaldehyde and acrolein, another ifosfamide metabolite, on rabbit proximal renal tubule cells in primary culture. The ability of the uroprotectant medications sodium 2-mercaptoethanesulfonate (mesna) and amifostine to prevent chloroacetaldehyde- and acrolein-induced renal cell injury was also assessed. Chloroacetaldehyde and acrolein (25-200 M) produced dose-dependent declines in neutral red dye uptake, glucose transport and glutathione content. Chloroacetaldehyde was a more potent toxin than acrolein. Pretreatment of cells with the glutathione-depleting agent buthionine sulfoximine enhanced the toxicity of both chloroacetaldehyde and acrolein while co-administration of mesna or amifostine prevented metabolite toxicity. These results support the hypothesis that chloroacetaldehyde is responsible for ifosfamide-induced nephrotoxicity. The protective effect of mesna and amifostine in vitro contrasts with clinical experience showing that these medications do not eliminate ifosfamide nephrotoxicity.
Nicotinamide 1,N(6)-ethenoadenine dinucleotide, a fluorescent analog of the coenzyme nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide, has been synthesized by the reaction of chloroacetaldehyde with the coenzyme. The technical fluorescence emission maximum of the analog is 410 nm, upon excitation at 300 nm. Its fluorescence yield is about 8% of that of the 1,N(6)-ethenoadenine 5'-phosphate, and its fluorescence lifteime is shorter. Upon hydrolysis of the modified coenzyme analog with Neurospora crassa NADase or phosphodiesterase I at room temperature, the intensity of fluorescence was increased 10-fold, corresponding to separation of the nicotinamide and ethenoadenine rings. The spectroscopic results with nicotinamide 1,N(6)-ethenoadenine dinucleotide are consistent with the concept of an intramolecular interaction between the modified adenine and pyridine moieties of the dinucleotide that is disrupted by enzymatic hydrolysis. The fluorescent analog showed reasonable activity as a substitute for NAD(+) in four different dehydrogenase-catalyzed reactions.
Kinetics of the liquid-phase acetaldehyde chlorination to monochloroacetaldehyde was studied in the medium of water-free carbon tetrachloride containing a catalyst, trichloroacetic acid or hydrogen chloride. The apparent activation energy and reaction orders for all components of the reacting mixture were determined. A mechanistic scheme for the reaction in a nonpolar medium was proposed: A + catalyst ↔ I 1 → l 2 (+Cl 2 ) → CH 2 CICHO + HCl + catalyst. The mechanism involves three steps: (1) the reaction of acetaldehyde with the catalyst, which yields an intermediate species I 1 ; (2) the isomerization of I 1 into another intermediate I 2 ; and (3) the reaction of I 2 with chlorine dissolved in the mixture. Isomerization is a rate-limiting step of the process, and the rate is independent of the chlorine concentration. The kinetic description is presented for the pseudo-steady-state chlorination in the nonpolar medium in the presence of Bronsted acids. The effect of association of catalyst molecules on the apparent rate order (n) with respect to the catalyst (HCI) in homogeneous reactions was analyzed. The value of n varies depending on the dominating catalyst structure and activities of various structures: I /p < n < p, where p is the maximum number of associated monomer molecules. The fractional reaction order with respect to the catalyst in acetaldehyde chlorination results from specific features of equilibria in the stcps preceding the limiting step, rather than HCI association.
Abstract It is shown that 2-chloroacetaldehyde, iodoacetamide and bromopyruvate irreversibly inactive the serine transhydroxymethylase ( l -serine:tetrahydrofolate 5,10-hydroxymethyltransferase, EC 2.1.2.1) and threonine aldolase ( l -threonine acetaldehyde-lyase, EC 4.1.2.5) activities in a coordinated fashion. Glycine, l -serine and dl -allothreonine partially protect both the activities against inactivation. These results confirm the conclusion of Schirch and Gross 8 that the serine transhydroxymethylase and threonine aldolase activities from the rabbit liver may be the property of the same or very similar enzymes.
The proteolysis of the LexA repressor in the presence of RecA and various polynucleotides was studied by measuring the fluorescence decrease of LexA upon cleavage. The results were compared with the DNA binding of RecA to investigate the presence of multiple DNA-RecA complexes. All single-stranded polydeoxyribonucleotides (DNA) efficiently stimulated the proteolysis and the maximum activation was reached in the presence of three or four nucleotides of polynucleotide per monomer of RecA. The stimulative effect was decreased in the presence of larger amounts of poly(dA), poly(dT) or heat-denatured DNA, whereas the excess of single-stranded DNAs chemically modified with chloroacetaldehyde did not present such an inhibitory effect, despite the fact that a second DNA molecule is likely to interact with RecA as monitored by the intrinsic fluorescence of these DNA species. The complicated cleavage promotion and inhibition pattern is tentatively explained by a three-state model assuming that RecA may interact with three single-stranded DNA molecules. According to this model, occupation of the first site would be necessary and sufficient for cleavage promotion, the second site would be neutral with respect to cleavage and the occupation of the third site would inhibit LexA cleavage at least partially. Double-stranded natural DNA did not stimulate cleavage, even under conditions where RecA binds quantitatively to the DNA. No polyribonucleotides (RNA) examined showed a significant stimulative effect either, nor did they appear to interact with RecA.
Chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) reacts with DNA bases, forming hydroxyethano derivatives of different stability, which are subsequently converted into etheno (epsilon) adducts: epsilon A, epsilon C, epsilon G. DNA polymerase fingerprint analysis was used to study the distribution of CAA-induced modifications in the p53 sequence. A plasmid bearing cDNA containing the human p53 gene was reacted in vitro with CAA, then dehydrated for conversion of hydroxyethano into etheno adducts, and primer extension by T7 DNA polymerase in the presence of four dNTPs was performed. The DNA repair enzymes methylpurine-DNA glycosylase and Escherichia coli exonuclease III were used to convert epsilon A residues in the template into DNA strand breaks, which enabled precise localization of the epsilon A residues within the p53 gene. Hydroxyethano derivatives of adenine and cytosine in a template blocked T7 DNA polymerase and caused premature chain termination opposite adenine or one base before cytosine. After dehydration, both epsilon A and epsilon C were much more easily by-passed by T7 DNA polymerase. Formation of epsilon G was identified as 'stop bands' one base before guanine residues. Modification of cytosine and guanine was additionally recognized by weakening or disappearance of non-specific stops on an undamaged template, probably due to steric hindrance by the tertiary DNA structure for polymerase. Etheno adduction of cytosine and guanine relaxed the compact DNA structure and enabled DNA polymerase to by-pass. In exons 5-8 of p53, 143 out of 500 sites appeared to be damaged by CAA, with four particularly densely modified regions between codons 135-147, 218-222, 234-255 and 284-292. The pattern of modification followed the pattern of p53 mutations found in vinyl chloride-associated liver angiosarcomas in humans and rats, but only in regions that showed 100% homology with the human sequence. The factors that influence DNA damage and induction of mutations in the p53 gene by CAA and vinyl chloride are discussed.
Abstract Photocatalytic oxidation of HD simulant, 2-chloroethyl ethyl sulfide (CEES), was studied in a specially designed coil and flow photocatalytic reactor by means of GC-MS and FTIR techniques. TiO 2 Hombikat UV 100 photocatalyst was deactivated after a few hours of operation, which was signaled by the appearance of incomplete oxidation products in the reactor effluent and accumulation of incomplete oxidation products on the TiO 2 surface. Complete reactivation of the photocatalyst was achieved by washing the photocatalyst with water. Compared to diethyl sulfide, CEES showed lower reactivity in photocatalytic oxidation and was accumulated on the TiO 2 surface after catalyst deactivation. Without UV irradiation, hydrolysis of CEES proceeded on the TiO 2 surface. Major gaseous products of CEES incomplete photocatalytic oxidation are acetaldehyde, chloroacetaldehyde, SO 2 , diethyl disulfide, and chloroethylene. Surface products extracted from the TiO 2 surface with acetonitrile and water include mainly 2-chloroethyl ethyl sulfoxide and ethanesulfinic and ethanesulfonic acids, as well as diethyl di-, tri-, and tetrasulfides mono and disubstituted in the β position with a chlorine or hydroxyl group. While surface monodentate sulfates can be removed upon washing, surface bidentate species stayed on the surface and possibly contribute to the permanent catalyst deactivation.
Trichloroacetaldehyde was successfully used for the cyclisation of bis-amidines of oxalic acid 1 to afford cycloaminals in good yields. Although prototropism is a characteristic feature of the amidines the cyclisation reaction can be realized in a regioselective manner to give three types of cycloaminals 6, 7 and 8. Starting from cycloaminals 8 carbenes can be generated which immediately dimerize to the corresponding 2,3,6,7-tetrakis(arylamino)-1,4,5,8-tetraazafulvalenes 5.
1'3-Dioxolanes were synthesized by reactions of 3-cyclohexenecarboxaldehyde, 5-norbornene-2-endo-carboxaldehyde with 1,2-ethanedithiol and 3-(2-propenyloxy)- and 3-propoxy-1,2-propanediols, aswell as of propionaldehyde, benzaldehyde, and trichloroacetaldehyde with the latter two thiols. Dichlorocarbene addition, bromination, and epoxidation of the ring C = C were accomplished, and activity of the resulting products as dienophiles in Dield-Alder reactions was assessed.
A novel rapid method for the analysis of adenine nucleotides in cells and tissues using post-column derivatisation with chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) followed by fluorescence detection is described. The CAA is incorporated in the eluent, but only reacts post-column when the temperature is elevated to 100 degrees C. Samples are chromatographed following neutralisation of acid extracts. Examples are given using both trichloroacetic acid extraction for cells in culture, and perchloric acid for murine liver.
Renal injury is a common side effect of the chemotherapeutic agent ifosfamide. Current evidence suggests that ifosfamide metabolites, particularly chloroacetaldehyde, produced within the kidney contribute to nephrotoxicity. The present study examined the effects of ifosfamide and its metabolites, chloroacetaldehyde and acrolein, on rabbit proximal renal tubule cells in primary culture, using a transwell culture system that allows separate access to apical and basolateral cell surfaces. The ability of the uroprotectant medications sodium 2-mercaptoethanesulfonate (mesna) and amifostine to prevent chloroacetaldehyde-and acrolein-induced renal cell injury was also assessed. Ifosfamide (2,000–4,000 μM) did not affect transcellular inulin diffusion but caused a modest but significant impairment in organic ion transport; this impairment was greater when ifosfamide was added to the basolateral compartment of the transwell. Chloroacetaldehyde and acrolein (6.25–100 μM) produced dose-dependent impairments in transcellular inulin diffusion and organic ion transport. Chloroacetaldehyde was a more potent toxin than acrolein. Co-administration of mesna or amifostine prevented metabolite toxicity. Amifostine was only protective when added to the apical compartment of transwells. These results show that ifosfamide is taken up by renal tubule cells preferentially through their basolateral surfaces, and supports the hypothesis that chloroacetaldehyde is primarily responsible for ifosfamide-induced nephrotoxicity. The protective effect of mesna and amifostine in vitro contrasts with clinical experience showing that these medications do not eliminate ifosfamide nephrotoxicity in vivo.
The oxazaphosphorines belong to the alkylating drug class with a wide spectrum of antineoplasic activity. Ifosfamide (IFO) demonstrated activity against various tumour types, from soft tissue sarcomas to lymphomas both in adult and paediatric patients. Oxazaphosphorines are metabolised by cytochromes, leading to ring opening and subsequent production of active nitrogen mustards, which display DNA cross-links. Associated toxicities of IFO are due to 1) acrolein, a urotoxic metabolite concomitantly generated with the release of the alkylating mustard and 2) chloroacetaldehyde, a metabolite derived from oxidation of side chains of the molecule via the action of cytochrome P450 (CYP) known to be responsible for neurotoxicity and nephrotoxicity (Kerbusch et al., 2001). To circumvent the oxidative related-toxicities, we have designed pre-activated oxazaphosphorines. (Paci et al., 2001) through electrochemical oxidation and engraftment of various moieties such as O-alkyl groups (fatty acids, alcohols, polyols, or sugars) and S-alkyl (thionyl) groups. Actually, IFO is activated by substitution at position 4 with labile moieties leading to the release of the cytotoxic entity without enzyme activity. These moieties can bring tissue specificity or physico-chemical characteristics leading to nanoassemblies for drug delivery purposes. Some of these pre-activated prodrugs may be constitutive of drug delivery systems, such as nanoparticles, aiming to address alkylating moieties to their target. We present here the use of squalene conjugation as squalene-based drug delivery systems have been favourably used for drug delivery (Couvreur et al. 2006). The designed compounds, SQ-IFO and SQ-thioIFO, have then two interesting properties. First, they are pre-activated formulations of IFO with C4-oxidation allowing to by-pass the CYP activation with the direct release of the alkylating mustard. The second property is the described capacity of squalenic derivatives for self-assembly in aqueous medium leading to nanoparticles. The SQ-IFO and SQ-thioIFO nanoparticles have been fully characterized with a mean diameter of 182 nm when prepared at 1mg/mL in 5% Dextrose. The cytotoxic activity of these nanoassemblies has been studied in vitro on a panel of 9 human and murine cancer lines (A549, MCF-7, B16F10, M109, MiaPaCa-2, KB 3.1, SK-N-MC, UW 479, IGR-OV1). Squalenoyl IFO derivatives present high activity in vitro while IFO has no activity on these cells even it is used in clinical practices to treat these cancers. This proves the pre-activated property of these new compounds and the lack of CYP activation needs. Their therapeutic activity is currently studied in vivo on human Ewing sarcoma xenografts in mice after i.v. administration. These new formulations of IFO could constitute promising candidates for both oral and IV administration in a wide panel of tumours. Citation Format: {Authors}. {Abstract title} [abstract]. In: Proceedings of the 103rd Annual Meeting of the American Association for Cancer Research; 2012 Mar 31-Apr 4; Chicago, IL. Philadelphia (PA): AACR; Cancer Res 2012;72(8 Suppl):Abstract nr 5702. doi:1538-7445.AM2012-5702
In this study, the formation of by-products resulting from the decomposition of trichloroethylene with a negative DC glow discharge has been investigated. By combining the qualitative data from mass spectrometry and Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy, the formation of phosgene, dichloroacetylchloride and trichloroacetaldehyde have been confirmed as incomplete oxidation products. Hydrogen chloride, chlorine, carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide were also detected. Also, formation of ozone was found in the outlet stream. Based on this information, it is possible to chose an appropriate catalyst to combine with non thermal plasma. In this way emission of harmful, incomplete oxidation products can be further reduced at a lower energy cost.
Chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) is the putative metabolite responsible for ifosfamide-induced nephrotoxicity. Whereas evidence suggests that sodium 2-mercaptoethanesulfonate (mesna) and amifostine protect renal cells against CAA toxicity in vitro, their efficacy in clinical studies is controversial. To better understand the discrepancy between in vivo and in vitro results, we combined the in vivo intraperitoneal administration of either saline or mesna (100 mg/kg) or amifostine (200 mg/kg) in rats and the in vitro study of CAA toxicity to both proximal tubules and precision-cut renal cortical slices. The measured renal cortical concentrations of mesna and amifostine were 0.6+/-0.1 micromol/g and 1.2+/-0.2 micromol/g, respectively; these drugs did not cause renal toxicity. Despite this, none of the adverse effects of 0.5 mM CAA was prevented by the previous in vivo administration of mesna or amifostine. Toxicity of 0.5 mM CAA to rat proximal tubules was shown by the fall of cellular adenosine triphosphate (ATP), total glutathione and coenzyme A + acetyl-coenzyme A levels and by the altered metabolic viability of renal cells. Long-term exposure of cortical slices to CAA concentrations > or =30 microM caused severe cell toxicity (i.e. decrease in cellular ATP, total glutathione, and coenzyme A + acetyl-coenzyme A levels), which was not prevented by the in vivo administration of mesna or amifostine.
The gas-phase reactions of Cl atoms with allyl alcohol (k(1)), 3-buten-2-ol (k(2)), and 2-methyl-3-buten-2-ol (k(3)) at 296 +/- 2 K have been investigated using absolute and relative rate methods in 1-700 Torr of N(2) diluent. Absolute rate studies were performed using pulsed laser photolysis/vacuum ultraviolet laser-induced fluorescence spectroscopy techniques. Relative rate studies were performed using smog chamber/Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy techniques. The absolute and relative rate studies gave consistent results. The kinetics of the reactions are dependent on pressure over the range studied. Molar yields for HCl production in 700 Torr of N(2) for reactions of chlorine atoms with allyl alcohol, 3-buten-2-ol, and 2-methyl-3-buten-2-ol were measured to be 0.26 +/- 0.03, 0.23 +/- 0.03, and 0.12 +/- 0.02, respectively. The chlorine-atom-initiated oxidation of 2-methyl-3-buten-2-ol in 700 Torr of air gave the following products (molar yields): acetone (47 +/- 4%), chloroacetaldehyde (47 +/- 5%), and HCHO (7.2 +/- 0.6%). The observation of substantial and indistinguishable yields of acetone and chloroacetaldehyde products indicates that a major fraction of the reaction proceeds via addition of chlorine atoms to the terminal carbon atom. The results are discussed with respect to the literature data.
Etheno-derivatives of 2-aminopurine, 2-aminopurine riboside, and 7-deazaadenosine (tubercidine) were prepared and purified using standard methods. 2-Aminopurine reacted with aqueous chloroacetaldehyde to give two products, both exhibiting substrate activity towards bacterial (E. coli) purine-nucleoside phosphorylase (PNP) in the reverse (synthetic) pathway. The major product of the chemical synthesis, identified as 1,N 2 -etheno-2-aminopurine, reacted slowly, while the second, minor, but highly fluorescent product, reacted rapidly. NMR analysis allowed identification of the minor product as N 2 ,3-etheno-2-aminopurine, and its ribosylation product as N 2 ,3-etheno-2-aminopurine-N 2 -β-d-riboside. Ribosylation of 1,N 2 -etheno-2-aminopurine led to analogous N 2 -β-d-riboside of this base. Both enzymatically produced ribosides were readily phosphorolysed by bacterial PNP to the respective bases. The reaction of 2-aminopurine-N 9 -β -d-riboside with chloroacetaldehyde gave one major product, clearly distinct from that obtained from the enzymatic synthesis, which was not a substrate for PNP. A tri-cyclic 7-deazaadenosine (tubercidine) derivative was prepared in an analogous way and shown to be an effective inhibitor of the E. coli, but not of the mammalian enzyme. Fluorescent complexes of amino-purine analogs with E. coli PNP were observed.
Tricyclic analogs of natural purine bases and their glycosides have been applied as fluorescent probes in the investigations of structure and function of nucleic acids (DNA, RNA) and enzymes related to nucleic acid metabolism and/or those utilizing nucleotide cofactors [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] . The most popular probe of this kind is 1,N 6 -etheno-adenosine (εAdo), prepared from adenosine reacting with chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), and related nucleotides [1] . Tri-cyclic nucleosides and nucleotides are also utilized as dimensional probes for enzymatic studies [5, 6] . Some of the tri-cyclic analogs and their derivatives reveal promising anti-viral properties [7] , recently reviewed by Janz-Wechmann et al. [8, 9] . They are (1) , N 2 ,3-etheno-2-aminopurine (2) , and the ribosides of the ε2AP isomers (3-5, R = β-d-ribofuranosyl). Compound 6 is 1,N 6 -etheno-tubercidine (R = β-d-ribo-furanosyl). Only one tautomeric form of the bases is shown for simplicity. Note that the purine numbering is applied (except for the etheno-group atoms, numbered as 10 and 11).
Methods. Metabolites and compounds studied in drinking water exposure included: trichloroacetic acid (TCAA), monochloroacetic acid (MCAA), trichloroethanol (TCEth), carboxy methylcystine (CMC), trichloroacetaldehyde (TCAld), dichloroacetaldehyde (DCAld), and dichlorovinyl cystine (DCVC). Compounds were administered to pregnant rats during fetal heart development.
Nicotinamide 1,N6-ethenoadenine dinucleotide, a fluorescent analog of the coenzyme nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide, has been synthesized by the reaction of chloroacetaldehyde with the coenzyme. The technical fluorescence emission maximum of the analog is 410 nm, upon excitation at 300 nm. Its fluorescence yield is about 8% of that of the 1,N6-ethenoadenine 5'_ phosphate, and its fluorescence lifetime is shorter. Upon hydrolysis of the modified coenzyme analog with Neurospora crassa NADase or phosphodiesterase I at room temperature, the intensity of fluorescence was increased 10-fold, corresponding to separation of the nicotinamide and ethenoadenine rings. The spectroscopic results with nicotinamide 1,N6-ethenoadenine dinucleotide are consistent with the concept of an intramolecular interaction between the modified adenine and pyridine moieties of the dinucleotide that is disrupted by enzymatic hydrolysis. The fluorescent analog showed reasonable activity as a substitute for NAD+ in four different dehydrogenasecatalyzed reactions.
The preparation of a fluorescent and enzymatically active derivative of NAD+ would permit, at the oxidized level, the same kind of fluorescence studies that have been so useful with the reduced form, NADH (9). Accordingly, we have applied the chloroacetaldehyde reaction which, with adeninecontaining moieties, introduces an etheno bridge between the 1-and N6-positions of the adenine ring (10-15) and renders the molecule fluorescent. The coenzyme NAD+ can be converted, thereby, to nicotinamide 1,N6-ethenoadenine dinucleotide, abbreviated "eNAD+"t, and shown in I as the doubly zwitterionic form. In the neutral pH range 6-8, the ethenoadenosine moiety will be unprotonated (15). Adenosine-modified analogs of NAD + previously examined include, inter alia, deamino (or desamino) NAD+, which is the corresponding hypoxanthine compound (16)(17) (18) (19), and the 1-and N6-hydroxyethyl compounds (20 Crotalus adamanteus Venom Phosphodiesterase (EC 3.1.4.1). The assay was performed at 23°in 3-ml reaction mixtures containig 25 mM phosphate buffer (pH 7.0) and 0.50 ,umol of eNAD+ by following the increase in fluorescence intensity at 410 nm when phosphodiesterase I was added to a final con-2039 * To whom to address reprint requests. t In the abbreviation eNAD + for nicotinamide 1,N6-ethenoadenine dinucleotide, e stands for etheno and is also suggestive of the molar absorbance term and of fluorescence emission.
Trichloroacetaldehyde was successfully used for the cyclisation of bis-amidines of oxalic acid 1 to afford cycloaminals in good yields. Although prototropism is a characteristic feature of the amidines the cyclisation reaction can be realized in a regioselective manner to give three types of cycloaminals 6, 7 and 8. Starting from cycloaminals 8 carbenes can be generated which immediately dimerize to the corresponding 2,3,6,7-tetrakis(arylamino)-1,4,5,8-tetraazafulvalenes 5.
Stimulated by the work of Wanzlick 3 our further attempts were guided to cyclisation reactions of 1 with trichloroacetaldehyde. The resulting cyclic aminals should possess a typical substructure for α-elimination that was applied earlier for the synthesis of numerous electronrich olefins.
Naphtho[1,2-b]furan-4,5-dione (NFD), prepared from 2-hydroxy-1,4-naphthoquinone and chloroacetaldehyde in an efficient one-pot reaction, exhibits an anti-carcinogenic effect. NFD-induced apoptosis in MDA-MB-231 cells, as indicated by the accumulation of sub-G1 population, externalization of phosphatidylserine, loss of mitochondrial membrane potential (DeltaPsim) with subsequent release of cytochrome c, and activation of both capase-9 and caspase-3. This correlated with up-regulation in Bax and Bad, and down-regulation of various anti-apoptotic proteins, including Bcl-2, Bcl-X(L), Mcl-1, and survivin in NFD-treated cells. In the analysis of signal transduction pathway, NFD suppressed the phosphorylation of JAK2 in MDA-MB-231 cells without altering the expression of JAK2 protein. Activation of STAT3, Src, and PI3K/Akt were also inhibited by NFD. Moreover, the JAK2 inhibitor AG490 blocked JAK2, STAT3, Src, PI3K, and Akt activation, whereas both Src inhibitor PP2 and PI3K inhibitor wortmannin did not affect JAK2 activation. This suggests that STAT3, Src, and PI3K/Akt are downstream molecules of the JAK2 signaling pathway. AG490 treatment also mimics the cytotoxic effects of NFD. Taken together, these results indicate that NFD disrupts JAK2 pathway and induces apoptosis in MDA-MB-231 cells.
The enthalpy of reaction of the 2-chloroethylideneaminocarbamic acid ethylester formation from (chloroacetaldehyde) and hydrazinoformic acid ethylester in water at 298.15 K was determined by a microcalorimeter. The experiment concluded the following parameters: the enthalpy of formation Δ_rH~_m=(-13.035±0.088) kJ/mol; the reaction order n = 1; the rate constant k=2.018×10~(-3)s~(-1)and the free energy of activation ΔG~_≠=(88.408) kJ/mol. The result indicates that the reaction takes place easily at room temperature in water.
A solution of 0.1 M 1,2-dichloroethane in 1 M H2SO4 was anodically converted to CO2, Cl2 and HCIO4 as the main products at smooth platinum. The current efficiency for CO2 exceeds 60% at low current densities, while HClO4 is obtained with about 20% current efficiency. Chlorinated products such as 1,2′,2-trichloroethane are formed in negligible amounts. Platinum plays a distinctive role as anode material and shows a reaction limited anodic prewave. Our experimental findings lead to a mechanism, whereby DCE is initially hydroxylated to form chloroacetaldehyde chlorohydrin which releases HCl and becomes rapidly further oxidized to monochloroacetic acid. The cleavage of the CC bond proceeds via its anodic decarboxylation. Possible practical applications in the field of anodic water purification and in the direct electrosynthesis of vinyl chloride are discussed.
Background/Aims: Chronic renal proximal tubule dysfunction after therapy with the antineoplastic agent ifosfamide (IFO) is often attributed to the metabolite chloroacetaldehyde (CAA). Chronic IFO-nephropathy is reported to result in tubulointerstitial fibrosis and inflammation. Methods: To elucidate possible effects of CAA on extracellular matrix homeostasis, we investigated the action of CAA on markers of extracellular matrix (ECM) homeostasis in human proximal tubule cells (RPTEC) by use of direct ELISA for extracellular collagens and gelatin zymography. Results: An increase in type III collagen and a decrease in type IV collagen abundance in the media of RPTEC could be observed after exposure to CAA in clinically relevant concentrations. CAA increased intracellular type III and decreased intracellular type IV collagen. MMP-2 activity was decreased but MMP-9 activity unchanged. The enhanced CAA-induced collagen III formation could be attenuated by the intracellular Ca2+-chelator BAPTA-AM, the PKA-antagonist H-89 and by extracellular acidification. CAA-induced collagen III abundance was enhanced by db-cAMP and IBMX and by protein overload. Conclusions: CAA exerts profibrotic effects on RPTEC dependent on Ca2+ and cAMP/PKA-signaling. These effects are enhanced by additional protein burden and attenuated by acidification.
The polymers of monochloroacetaldehyde and dichloroacetaldehyde have been examined by infrared spectroscopy. They are homologues of polyformaldehyde, having the formula HO(CHR•O)nH. X-ray-diffraction powder photographs show that they are fairly crystalline.
Background/Aims: Chronic renal proximal tubule dysfunction after therapy with the antineoplastic agent ifosfamide (IFO) is often attributed to the metabolite chloroacetaldehyde (CAA). Chronic IFO-nephropathy is reported to result in tubulointerstitial fibrosis and inflammation. Methods: To elucidate possible effects of CAA on extracellular matrix homeostasis, we investigated the action of CAA on markers of extracellular matrix (ECM) homeostasis in human proximal tubule cells (RPTEC) by use of direct ELISA for extracellular collagens and gelatin zymography. Results: An increase in type III collagen and a decrease in type IV collagen abundance in the media of RPTEC could be observed after exposure to CAA in clinically relevant concentrations. CAA increased intracellular type III and decreased intracellular type IV collagen. MMP-2 activity was decreased but MMP-9 activity unchanged. The enhanced CAA-induced collagen III formation could be attenuated by the intracellular Ca 2+ -chelator BAPTA-AM, the PKA-antagonist H-89 and by extracellular acidification. CAA-induced collagen III abundance was enhanced by db-cAMP and IBMX and by protein overload. Conclusions: CAA exerts profibrotic effects on RPTEC dependent on Ca 2+ and cAMP/PKA-signaling. These effects are enhanced by additional protein burden and attenuated by acidification.
Chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) is a metabolite of the cancer therapeutic ifosfamide (IFO) generated mainly in liver by cytochrome P450-dependent mechanisms [1] . IFO is included in therapy protocols for the treatment of malignant solid tumors, especially in pediatric oncology, with response rates up to 80 % [2] . Yet, there is a significant number of patients developing chronic renal dysfunction, sometimes even years after the end of treatment [3, 4] . The predominant target for IFO-induced renal disease is the proximal tubule [5, 6] . The severity of renal impairment ranges from mild renal tubular acidosis (in up to 40% of all patients) to full blown Fanconi-syndrome (in up to 5 % of all patients) [3, 7, 8] . In pediatric patients treated with IFO wasting of phosphate by damaged proximal tubules often requires phosphate substitution to prevent hypophosphatemic rickets [3] . Additionally, the toxic effects of IFO treatment can persist over a long time period in children [9] . Thus, renal toxicity of IFO is of concern in oncology patients and especially in children. Until now, there are few prognostic parameters to identify patients who will develop chronic nephrotoxicty, since acute and chronic damage are not well correlated [10] . Furthermore, the mechanisms by which IFO leads to proximal tubular damage are poorly understood. Among IFO and its metabolites, CAA is most probably responsible for chronic renal disease [11] [12] [13] [14] . Cell culture studies could show impairment of several transport mechanisms by CAA in renal proximal tubule cells and a concentration-dependent necrotic rather than apoptotic cell death [15] [16] [17] [18] [19] . Recently we could provide evidence for cAMP-dependent alterations in Ca 2+ -signaling by CAA in human proximal tubule cells in primary culture [20] . CAA acts as a sulfhydryl reagent and thereby impairs the proper function of proteins necessary for the balance of proliferation and apoptosis by inhibition of caspases. We could also show that CAA inhibits cathepsin B, a lysosomal cysteine protease of importance for digestion of endocytosed protein [21] . Depletion of non-protein-sulfhydryl groups such as reduced glutathione (GSH) impairs the capacity of the cells to scavenge free radicals, thereby increasing the susceptibility to oxidative stress. The latter mechanism should account for acute toxicity that is frequently observed during IFO-infusion. It may also be a mechanism of antitumor action of ifosfamide [22] . Consequently, providing alternative free sulfhydryl group-carrying molecules protects renal cells in culture (GSH, mesna or cysteine [19, 23] ) and probably also in vivo (by N-acteylcysteine in combination with its antioxidative action [24] ). Inhibition of cysteine proteases and disturbed Ca 2+ -handling do not necessarily lead to acute renal cell death, but are capable to induce chronic functional modifications leading to proximal tubule cell dysfunction, finally resulting in organ damage.
Abstract ::: We have previously reported that human cells and tissues contain a 1,N6-ethenoadenine (epsilon A) binding protein, which, through glycosylase activity, releases both 3-methyladenine (m3A) and epsilon A from DNA treated with methylating agents or the vinyl chloride metabolite chloroacetaldehyde, respectively. We now find that both the partially purified human epsilon A-binding protein and cell-free extracts containing the cloned human m3A-DNA glycosylase release all four cyclic etheno adducts--namely epsilon A, 3,N4-ethenocytosine (epsilon C), N2,3-ethenoguanine (N2,3-epsilon G), and 1,N2-ethenoguanine (1,N2-epsilon G). Base release was both time and protein concentration dependent. Both epsilon A and epsilon C were excised at similar rates, while 1,N2-epsilon G and N2,3-epsilon G were released much more slowly under identical conditions. The cleavage of glycosyl bonds of several heterocyclic adducts as well as those of simple methylated adducts by the same human glycosylase appears unusual in enzymology. This raises the question of how such a multiple, divergent activity evolved in humans and what may be its primary substrate.
Abstract Two CeMn x O y (CeMn x ) catalysts ( x = 1, CeMn; x = 4; CeMn 4 ) were synthesized via a modified “redox-precipitation” route followed by calcination at 500 °C. XRD analysis showed only the presence of ceria. Raman spectroscopy gave a featureless spectrum for CeMn while peaks characteristic of a birnessite-type structure were observed for CeMn 4 oxide. A large surface area of 165 m 2 /g was obtained for CeMn which decreased to 95 m 2 /g with x = 4. Furthermore XPS characterizations showed homogeneous distribution of the active phase. Trichloroethylene (TCE) abatement was investigated at 150 °C with catalyst alone, non-thermal plasma (NTP) alone at ambient conditions and with a post plasma-catalytic (PPC) system using these cerium–manganese oxides as well as a reference Mn oxide as catalysts positioned downstream of the plasma. At 150 °C, without NTP, MnO y converted specifically 5% of TCE into CO 2 while volatile organic compound (VOC) adsorption mainly occurred over the other catalysts. With NTP alone, 87% TCE removal was achieved at 240 J/L but formation of unwanted polychlorinated by-products, such as phosgene, dichloroacetylchloride and trichloroacetaldehyde occurred resulting in a low CO x ( x = 1, 2) selectivity of about 27%. In comparison, a significant improvement was observed in TCE abatement performance when using the PPC configuration. Indeed, TCE conversion up to about 100% as well as CO x selectivity up to 56% were achieved thanks to the high efficiency of the catalysts to completely decompose O 3 leading to the production of active oxygen species which are able to oxidize the by-products. The best plasma-assisted catalyst performance observed for CeMn 4 may be linked to the presence of residual potassium allowing to avoid the poisoning of catalytic sites with chlorinated organic species as well as slowing down the formation of chlorinated mineral phases.
31P NMR spectroscopy was used to study the products of the decomposition of the antitumor drug ifosfamide (IF, 1d) and its N-dechloroethylated metabolites, namely, 2,3-didechloroethylIF (1a) and 2- (1b) and 3-dechloroethylIF (1c), in buffered solutions at acidic pH. The first stage of acid hydrolysis of these four oxazaphosphorines is a P-N bond cleavage of the six-membered ring leading to the phosphoramidic acid monoesters (2a-d) of type R'HN(CH 2 ) 3 OP(O)(OH)-NHR, with R and/or R' = H or (CH 2 ) 2 Cl. The electron-withdrawing chloroethyl group at the endocyclic and/or exocyclic nitrogens counteracts the endocyclic P-N bond hydrolysis. This effect is even more marked when the N-chloroethyl group is in the exocyclic position since the order of stability is 1d > 1c > 1b > 1a. In the second stage of hydrolysis, the remaining P-N bond is cleaved together with an intramolecular attack at the phosphorus atom by the non-P-linked nitrogen of the compounds 2a-d. This leads to the formation of a 2-hydroxyoxazaphosphorine ring with R = H (3a coming from compounds 2a,c) or (CH 2 ) 2 Cl (3b coming from compounds 2b,d) and to the release of ammonia or chloroethylamine. The third step is the P-N ring opening of the oxazaphosphorines 3a,b leading to the phosphoric acid monoesters, H 2 N(CH 2 ) 3 OP(O)(OH) 2 (4a) and Cl(CH2)2HN(CH2) 3 OP(O)(OH)2 (4b-1), respectively. For the latter compound, the chloroethyl group is partially (at pH 5.5) or totally (at pH 7.0) cyclized into aziridine (4b-2), which is then progressively hydrolyzed into an N-hydroxyethyl group (4b-3). Compounds 3a,b are transient intermediates, which in strongly acidic medium are not observed with 31 P NMR. In this case, cleavage of the P-N bond of the type 2 phosphoramidic acid monoesters leads directly to the type 4 phosphoric acid monoesters. The phosphate anion, derived from P-O bond cleavage of these latter compounds, is only observed at low levels after a long period of hydrolysis. Compounds 1a-c and some of their hydrolytic degradation products (4b-1, 4b-2, diphosphoric diester [Cl(CH2)2NH(CH2)30P(O)(OH)] 2 O (5), and chloroethylamine) did not exhibit, as expected, any antitumor efficacy in vivo against P388 leukemia. 31 P NMR determination of the N-dechloroethylated metabolites of IF or its structural isomer, cyclophosphamide (CP), and their degradation compounds could provide an indirect and accurate estimation of chloroacetaldehyde amounts formed from CP or IF.
The nephrotoxic effects of the antineoplastic drug ifosfamide have been attributed to its hepatic metabolite chloroacetaldehyde. The effects of chloroacetaldehyde on isolated human kidney cortex tubules metabolizing lactate (a physiologic substrate in human kidneys) were investigated. At concentrations of > or =0.5 mM, chloroacetaldehyde was toxic to the human kidney tubules, as demonstrated by a dramatic decrease in cellular ATP levels and a large increase in lactate dehydrogenase release; chloroacetaldehyde also stimulated pyruvate accumulation and inhibited lactate removal and glucose synthesis. These effects, which were associated with incomplete disappearance of chloroacetaldehyde and extensive depletion of the cellular CoA, acetyl-CoA, and glutathione contents, were prevented by the addition of thiol-protecting drugs (mesna and amifostine). Human kidney tubules were demonstrated to metabolize chloroacetaldehyde at high rates, presumably via aldehyde dehydrogenase, which is very active in human kidneys. Carbon-13 nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy measurements indicated that human kidney tubules converted [2-(13)C]chloroacetaldehyde to [2-(13)C]chloroacetate, the further metabolism of which was very limited. At equimolar concentrations, chloroacetate was much less toxic than chloroacetaldehyde, indicating that chloroacetate synthesis from chloroacetaldehyde by human kidney tubules represents a detoxification mechanism that could play a role in vivo in preventing or limiting the nephrotoxic effects observed during ifosfamide therapy.
The synthesis of a new modified etheno-2'-deoxyguanosine is reported. N2,3-Ethenodeoxy-guanosine (epsilon dGuo) is a product in double-stranded DNA treated with the carcinogen vinyl chloride in vivo or its metabolite chloroacetaldehyde in vitro. The lability of its glycosyl bond has, however, interfered with its isolation from DNA. The synthesis, starting with O6-benzyl-2'-deoxyguanosine 5'-phosphate, reacted with bromoacetaldehyde, could only be accomplished in slightly alkaline media, which prevented significant loss of the sugar. The 5'-phosphate also decreased the lability of the glycosyl bond. The resulting compound, when deprotected, was converted to N2,3-ethenodeoxyguanosine 5'-triphosphate, as well as the corresponding nucleoside. Fluorescence, UV, and 1H NMR data were consistent with the assigned structures and almost identical with those of the previously synthesized much more stable ribo analogues [Kuśmierek et al. (1987) J. Org. Chem. 52, 2374-2378]. A systematic study of the pH-dependent glycosyl bond cleavage gave a t1/2, 37 degrees C, pH 6, of approximately 3.5 h for the nucleoside and 7-10 h for the nucleotides. Comparison, under the same conditions, of stability of the glycosyl bond in poly(dG,epsilon dG-dC) showed an increased stability of 2 orders of magnitude, t1/2 = approximately 600 h. The rate of sugar loss was, in all cases, greatly decreased at higher pH's, over the range of pH 5-9. These stability data indicate that when slightly alkaline conditions can be used, studies on incorporation of epsilon dGuo into polymers for in vitro mutagenesis studies are possible.
Abstract ::: Flavin 1,N6-ethenoadenine dinucleotide (eFAD) was prepared by the action of chloroacetaldehyde on flavin adenine dinucleotide. This compound, which has two potential fluorophores, e-adenine and isoalloxazine, shows extremely efficient energy transfer from the former to the latter. The fluorescences of both moieties are greatly diminished in the intact molecule. Determination of the fluorescence yields and lifetimes leads to the conclusion that at 20° in neutral aqueous solution eFAD exists mainly (90%) as an internally complexed or stacked form.
Flavin 1,N6-ethenoadenine dinucleotide (eFAD) was prepared by the action of chloroacetaldehyde on flavin adenine dinucleotide. This compound, which has two potential fluorophores, e-adenine and isoalloxazine, shows extremely efficient energy transfer from the former to the latter. The fluorescences of both moieties are greatly diminished in the intact molecule. Determination of the fluorescence yields and lifetimes leads to the conclusion that at 200 in neutral aqueous solution eFAD exists mainly (90%) as an internally complexed or stacked form. In the shortened forms of the names, the abbreviation "e" now generally in use stands for the etheno bridge. * To whom to address reprint requests.
Similar purine/pyrimidine mirror repeat (PMR) DNA sequences have been identified in the 5'-flanking regions of the human cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (hCFTR) and mucin (hMUC1) genes, and supercoiled (but not linearized) plasmids containing these promoter regions were previously shown to be sensitive to digestion by S1 nuclease. The PMR element derived from the hCFTR promoter region is now sub-cloned and characterized at nucleotide resolution with respect to its reactivity toward nucleases S1 and P1, and toward the chemical probes dimethyl sulfate, chloroacetaldehyde, diethylpyrocarbonate and osmium tetroxide. These probes confirm the presence, at pH 4.5 (but not at pH 7.1), of a non-B-DNA structure. This non-B-DNA structure is distinct from H-DNA, because enzymatic and chemical probing detect single-stranded character in the absence of a stable intramolecular triple helix or extruded purine strand.
The photoassisted catalytic degradation of chloroethylene was studied in a tubular photoreactor packed with TiO2 pellets prepared by a sol−gel method. The experiments were performed in a noncirculating mode. Kinetic data and the reaction products were compared with those for the photodegradation of ethylene, trichloroethylene, and tetrachloroethylene. The theoretical calculations at the MP4/6-31G**//B3LYP/6-31G** level indicated that the addition of OH radicals to chlorinated ethylenes is more exothermic than that of Cl radicals by 14.6−29.5 kcal mol-1. Examination of Cl mass balance indicated that the concentration of Cl- collected from the TiO2 surface was higher than that from the product gas stream. When the photodegradation of ethylene was performed on the TiO2 pellets which had been used for that of TCE or which were pretreated with HCl, the formation of chloroacetaldehyde was confirmed by the GC/MS. We proposed that during the photodegradation of the chlorinated ethylenes, the Cl-, as one of the re...
The invention relates to a process for the preparation of chloroacetaldehyde acetals monohydric, dihydric or higher aliphatic alcohols in which from a chloroacetaldehyde aqueous solution in the presence of the acetalizing alcohol and an acid catalyst by azeotropic removal of water by means of a solvent chloroacetaldehyde acetal is obtained, characterized in that the solvent is a halogenated solvent.
The t-butoxy-initiated, acetate end-capped, purely-isotactic oligomers of trichloroacetaldehyde (chloral)—from dimer to nonamer—were resolved into the two enantiomers (RRR···R and SSS···S isomers) by HPLC using a chiral stationary phase. The (−)-isomer eluted faster than the (+)-isomer for each oligomer racemate. The (−)-isomers were identified as the RRR···R isomers which exist in a right-handed 41-helical conformation in solution as well as in the crystalline state. The specific rotation of the oligomer in solution was not significantly dependent on the degree of polymerization, and gave a value, [α]D=−23.7° in chloroform for the (−)-pentamer. CD spectra of the optically pure dimer and pentamer were also examined.
Ifosfamide (IF), a potent chemotherapeutic agent for solid tumors, is known to cause high rates of nephrotoxicity in children with cancer, which is most likely due to the renal production of the metabolite chloroacetaldehyde. Using plasma samples obtained from pediatric oncology patients, we developed a simple nonderivatizing enantioselective liquid chromatography mass spectrometry method to detect the (R) and (S)-2- and 3-dechloroethylifosfamide metabolites. The (R) and (S)-enantiomers of the 2- and 3-DCEIF (N-3-dechlroethylifosfamide) were detectable in all 22 patients' samples with levels ranging from 9.9 to 238.7 ng/ml for (R)-2-DCEIF, 15.8 to 663.0 ng/ml for (S)-2-DCEIF, 20.8 to 852.8 ng/l for (R)-3-DCEIF and 28.0 to 862.0 ng/ml for (S)-3-DCEIF. In addition, the lower limit of quantification for this method is 1 ng/ml. Future studies should concentrate on (R) or (S) production of the 2-DCEIF and 3-DCEIF and subsequently chloroacetaldehyde formation with the aim of considering the administration of only the (R)-IF as its metabolism results in a lower production of chloroacetaldehyde.
The antineoplastic drug ifosfamide (IFO) in the treatment of solid tumors, particularly in children, is the cause of severe nephrotoxicity. Although it is a potent and effective chemotherapeutic agent, the associated nephrotoxicity has a serious impact on the health and the quality of life of exposed children. The toxic metabolite of IFO thought to be responsible for IFO-induced kidney damage is chloroacetaldehyde (CAA). Those suffering from nephrotoxicity typically develop tubular and glomerular toxicities, with the most severe form being Fanconi's syndrome. As the mode of toxicity of CAA seems to be primarily owing to oxidative stress, the use of antioxidants as a protective measure for the kidneys is a promising strategy. In this review, we highlight recent research that supports the local renal production of CAA as the proximate cause of IFO-induced nephrotoxicity with age as an important risk factor, those under the age of three being the most vulnerable. Most importantly, we focus on the potential advantages of the antioxidant N-acetylcysteine owing to both its antioxidant properties and its current use clinically in pediatrics.
Vinyl chloride selectivity during epoxidation on an atomic oxygen pre-adsorbed Ag(100) surface using density functional theory (DFT) with the periodic slab model was investigated. The reaction mechanism is a two-step process where chloroethylene oxametallacycle intermediate (OMMC) is first formed and then converted to the products. Because of the asymmetry of vinyl chloride, two competitive reaction pathways are evident. The reaction energies and the activation energies of the processes were determined by the DFT calculations. Compared with the reaction activity energy, in one pathway the formation of chloroethylene epoxide (CE) is more favorable than the formation of chloroacetaldehyde (CA) whereas in the other pathway, the formation of CA is more favorable than the formation of CE and acetyl chloride. To further understand the reason for the selectivity difference in these different paths the projected density of states of the C atom and the Ag atom involved in the OMMC was calculated.
The reaction of chloroacetaldehyde with adenine bases in DNA to give a fluorescent product was used to study the availability to intermolecular reaction of positions 1 and 6 of adenine in DNA complexes with calf thymus DNA helix-destabilizing protein. No inhibition of this reaction was observed when heat-denatured DNA was complexed with the protein at a protein/DNA weight ratio of 10:1, compared to free DNA. On the contrary, the same reaction was inhibited markedly for denatured DNA in the presence of calf thymus histone HI at protein/DNA weight ratio of 2:1. Furthermore, the exchange rate for hydrogens of amino and imide groups of DNA bases in DNA strands with deuterium in the solvent was totally unaffected upon complexing of DNA with the DNA helix-destabilizing protein as examined by stopped-flow ultraviolet spectroscopy. These results indicate that the DNA helix-destabilizing protein forms a complex with single-stranded DNA, leaving DNA bases uncovered by the protein. The fluorescence intensity of DNA pretreated with chloroacetaldehyde was amplified by nearly 3-fold upon addition of the DNA helix-destabilizing protein. The possibility of "unstacking" of DNA bases induced by the protein is discussed.
The reactions of chloroacetaldehyde with adenosine 3′,5′-cyclic phosphate, and with several analogs modified at C8 of the purine ring or C5, of the sugar, lead to the corresponding 1,N6-etheno derivativesd. Similar reactions using other 2-bromoaldehydes or phenacyl bromide give 1,N6-ethenonucleotides substituted at the α- or β-positions of the etheno bridge respectively. The ability of these compounds to activate the protein kinases from rabbit muscle and calf brain has been evaluated over a wide range of concentrations. While no derivative proved to be more active than adenosine 3′,5′-cyclic phosphate itself using the enzyme from rabbit muscle, a wide spectrum of activities was found using that from calf brain.
An investigation into the reactions between Cl atoms and acrolein (1), methacrolein (2) and methyl vinyl ::: ketone (3) ::: ::: is presented. Values of the rate constants for the reactions have been determined by an absolute technique for ::: the first time. At a pressure of 1.6 Torr, the rate constants obtained were: k1 ::: = 1.1 ± 0.2, k2 ::: = 3.3 ± 0.6 and ::: k3 ::: = 0.99 ± 0.20 in units of 10−10 cm3 molecule−1 s−1. k1 was also determined at atmospheric pressure using ::: a relative-rate technique. The rate constant obtained was (2.2 ± 0.3) × 10−10 cm3 molecule−1 s−1; the larger ::: value compared with that for 1.6 Torr is thought to reflect a true dependence of the reaction rate on pressure. ::: The final products of the reactions performed under an atmosphere of synthetic air were investigated using ::: FTIR spectroscopy. The only chlorinated organic species identified as products of the reactions were ::: chloroacetaldehyde in the case of reaction of Cl atoms with acrolein; chloroacetone with methacrolein; and ::: chloroacetaldehyde with methyl vinyl ketone. Branching ratios for abstraction (the fraction of reactions ::: occurring by abstraction relative to the sum of addition and abstraction processes) were found to be ::: 0.22 ± 0.13 for acrolein, 0.18 ± 0.02 for methacrolein and <0.03 for methyl vinyl ketone. The reaction of Cl ::: atoms with methacrolein proceeds ia ::: a mechanism that involves the decomposition of the methyl vinyl ::: radical. The decomposition of this radical in synthetic air, and in the absence of NO, appears to lead to the ::: formation of significantly more CO than previously thought. This observation is in agreement with the work of ::: J. J. Orlando, S. E. Paulson and G. S. Tyndall, Geophys. Res. Lett., 1999, 26, 2191 (ref. 1), who studied the ::: decomposition of the radical under different conditions.
The aldehydo-derivatives of monosaccharides readily react with malonic acid in pyridine in the presence of piperidine catalyst [4] . The Knoevenagel-Doebner reaction of open-chain and protected monosaccharides is known in the literature [4, [10] [11] [12] [13] [14] . For instance, 2,3-dehydro-2,3-dideoxyaldonic acids of starting monosaccharides were obtained via Knoevenagel-Doebner condensation of free Larabinose, D-xylose and D-galactose with malonic acid [10] . Furthermore, the condensation products of protected monosaccharides such as aldehydo -1,2;3,4- Chloralose was firstly synthesized by Arthur Heffter in 1889 from the condensation of D-glucose and trichloroacetaldehyde (chloral) in the presence of an acid catalyst [15] . While two optical isomers were obtained α-glucochloralose (1) (α-chloralose) and β-glucochloralose (4) (β-chloralose) from the reaction of D-glucose with chloral, only β-isomers were obtained in the syntheses of β-xylochloralose [16] from D-xylose, β-arabinochloralose [17] from D-arabinose, β-galactochloralose [18] from Dgalactose, β-mannochloralose (7) [19] from D-mannose via the same synthetic procedure.
The reaction of chloroacetaldehyde with adenine bases in DNA to give a fluorescent product was used to study the availability to intermolecular reaction of positions 1 and 6 of adenine in DNA complexed with calf thymus DNA helix-destabilizing protein. No inhibition of this reaction was observed when heat-denatured DNA was complexed with the protein at a protein/DNA weight ratio of 10:1, compared to free DNA. On the contrary, the same reaction was inhibited markedly for denatured DNA The DNA helix-destabilizing protein (HD-protein) has been isolated from various organisms by virtue of its strong preferential affinity for single-stranded DNA. It lowers the melting temperatures (tms) of double-stranded nucleic acids and stimulates the activity of the homologous DNA polymerase in vitro (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) .
For understanding the in vivo role of HD-protein in DNA replication, knowledge of the mechanism of the molecular interaction between the protein and DNA is of primary importance. For an explanation of the stimulative effect of HDprotein on DNA polymerase activity, a "bases-out" model for the DNA-HD-protein complex has been proposed (12, 13). It was assumed that DNA bases of the DNA-HD-protein complex are oriented in such a way that they are easily recognized by the enzyme. It is not yet clear, however, whether or not base residues of DNA are actually exposed and are accessible to intermolecular reactions when single-stranded DNA is fully covered by HD-protein. In this communication, we report a few pieces of evidence that DNA bases remain uncovered after the binding of HDprotein to DNA. The reaction of chloroacetaldehyde with adenosine and adenylic acid takes place at position 1 (nitrogen) and position 6 (amino group) of the adenine residue (14, 15).
The product of this same reaction with DNA, e-DNA, has a fluorescence maximum at 400 nm when excited at 305 nm in aqueous solution at pH 6.8 (16-17). Thus, availability of positions 1 and 6 of the adenine residue in a DNA system can be detected with great sensitivity. For instance, the reaction takes place only with single-stranded DNA and not with doublestranded DNA purified by treatment with nuclease SI followed by hydroxylapatite chromatography (16-18). We have examined mild conditions for the reaction of chloroacetaldehyde with DNA to avoid inactivation of HD-protein during the reaction and then studied the reactivity of chloroacetaldehyde with adenine bases in poly(dA-dT) and calf thymus heat-denatured DNA in the presence of calf thymus HD-protein (UPi).
To confirm the results obtained from the above experiments, the rate of the hydrogen-deuterium exchange reaction of denatured DNA in the presence and in the absence of UPi were compared. The exchange of protons of amino and imide hydrogens of DNA bases was monitored by stopped-flow ultraviolet spectroscopy (19). In this system we can eliminate the possible effect of chemicals such as chloroacetaldehyde on the structure of DNA-protein complex. We also explored the possibility that UPI "unstacks" DNA bases upon binding to DNA by examining the effect of UPi on the fluorescence intensity of e-DNA (DNA pretreated with chloroacetaldehyde). 
Abstract Vinyl chloride (VC) is widely used in industry in the production of polyvinyl chloride (PVC), which is used to manufacture a large variety of materials. VC was classified as a known (Group 1) human carcinogen by IARC on the basis of increased risk for liver angiosarcoma and hepatocellular cancer, and the carcinogenicity of VC was shown to be mediated by a genotoxic mechanism. Following inhalation, the compound is rapidly absorbed and metabolized in the liver to the electrophilic metabolites chloroethylene-oxide and chloroacetaldehyde, which form DNA adducts that can be processed into point mutations in cancer-related genes detected in humans and rats exposed to VC. A number of genotoxicity biomarkers were applied in workers exposed to VC to detect early biological responses associated with the carcinogenesis process. The present systematic review analyzed the published studies in which the cytokinesis-block micronucleus assay in peripheral lymphocytes (L-CBMN) was applied in VC-exposed subjects. Thirteen out of fifteen retrieved studies performed in China showed increased MN frequencies (FR 1.92–3.98) associated with increased cumulative exposure or employment time. Twofold and more than threefold increases were detected in PVC-exposed workers exposed to a mean of 50 ppm of VC in the former Yugoslavia and in South India, respectively. The meta-analysis of MN frequency from six eligible studies confirmed this tendency (pooled MR 2.32 – 95% CI 1.64–3.27). The benchmark dose lower limit for 10% excess risk (BMDL 10) calculated from three studies resulted in an estimated exposure limit of 0.03–0.07 mg/m 3 . Overall the results of this review showed the need for further studies, especially because PVC products from China may contain high levels of uncoupled VCM that could represent a source of exposure to workers and consumers. Moreover, the results underline the importance of re-evaluating the recommended exposure limits using new biomonitoring methods in addition to MN.
Ethylene dichloride (EDC) is metabolized by two competing pathways both of which consume glutathione (GSH). EDC undergoes oxidation to form chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) which is detoxified by GSH and also reacts directly with GSH to form 2-(s-chloroethyl)-GSH. A physiological pharmacokinetic model developed for EDC was extended to describe tissue GSH turnover and its depletion after EDC exposures. This GSH model was necessary to keep track of GSH concentrations with time, as EDC metabolism is affected by GSH status. Reactions of GSH with EDC and GSH with CAA were defined as second-order. Steady-state GSH formation was modeled as zero-order and GSH loss as first-order. GSH rebound effects after its depletion were controlled by a GSH synthetase reaction, which allowed time- and GSH concentration-dependent feedback for increased GSH resynthesis. The model was developed for liver GSH in the rat and was extrapolated to include the lung. Allometric scaling was used to extrapolate the model to other animal species. Experimental observations in the rat and mouse were consistent with model predictions.
The invention provides a novel method for synthesizing 4-chloropyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidine, belonging to the technical field of chemical synthesis. The method comprises the steps of carrying out four-step reaction by using ethyl cyanoacetate, thiourea, caustic alcohol, 2-chloroacetaldehyde and sodium acetate as raw materials and using alcohol, ammonia water, water and phosphorus oxychloride as solvents as well as using active nickel as a catalyst to obtain the 4-chloropyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidine as a target product; and carrying out data representation by liquid chromatogram, nuclear magnetism spectrogram and mass spectrum. The invention has short process route and production cycle, low synthesis cost, safe and reliable synthesis and simple and convenient posttreatment method, and avoids the use of dangerous goods of sodium hydride. The product prepared by the method has high yield (50-58 percent) and high purity (98-99 percent).
The anti-cancer prodrug ifosfamide (IF) is metabolized by liver P450 enzymes by two alternative pathways. IF is activated to 4-hydroxy IF (4-OH-IF), which ultimately yields the alkylating mustard isophosphoramide, whereas IF N-dechlororethylation inactivates the drug and produces the neurotoxic metabolite chloroacetaldehyde (CA). Both reactions are catalysed by multiple liver P450 enzymes in vitro in isolated rat liver microsomes. The present pharmacokinetic study investigates the potential for modulation of these alternative pathways of IF metabolism in vivo using the adult male Fischer 344 rat model. Rats were treated with IF alone or in conjunction with various P450 inducers and inhibitors in an effort to improve the balance between drug activation and drug inactivation. Plasma concentrations, areas under the curve (AUC) and half-lives were calculated for 4-OH-IF and CA, allowing estimations of the extent of IF activation and deactivation/toxification. Induction of liver P450 2B enzymes by 4-day high-dose phenobarbital (PB) pretreatment significantly decreased the fraction of IF undergoing 4-hydroxylation (AUC(4-OH-IF)/AUC(4-OH-IF)+AUC(CA)), from 37% to 22% of total metabolism (P < 0.05), consistent with in vitro findings that the PB-inducible P450 enzyme 2B1 plays a major role in IF N-dechloroethylation. Pretreatment with the P450 3A inducer dexamethasone proportionally decreased the AUC for both IF metabolites, without any net impact on the fraction of IF undergoing metabolic activation. By contrast, the P450 2B1 inhibitor metyrapone preferentially increased the AUC for the 4-hydroxylation pathway in 3-day low-dose PB-induced rats, thereby increasing the total fraction of IF metabolized via the activation pathway from 36% to 54% (P < 0.05), whereas the P450 inhibitors orphenadrine and troleandomycin had no significant affect on AUC values. These findings demonstrate specific roles for P450 2B and 3A enzymes in catalysing these pathways of IF metabolism in vivo, and demonstrate the potential for modulation of IF's alternative metabolic pathways in a therapeutically useful manner. These studies also highlight several clinically relevant drug interactions that may occur during concomitant administration of IF with drugs and other compounds that modulate hepatic P450 enzyme levels.
The amides of dichloroacetaldehyde were synthesized and their physical and chemical constants were determined. None of the compounds showed any appreciable hypnoticor analgetic activity. Two of the compounds, the isovaleramide and 2-ethylbutyramide derivatives showed some anticonvulsant activity.
Publisher Summary This chapter discusses the various reactions of interest in medicinal chemistry, such as aromatic substitution, halogenation, oxidation, by the use of oxidants absorbed on alumina or silica, reactions regarding carboxylic acids and derivatives, and various miscellaneous reactions. Several improvements in the aldol reaction have been noted. Coupling of an α-bromocarbonyl compound with another carbonyl compound via dialkylaluminum chloride–zinc, produces aldol regiospecifically in high yield. Fluoride ion catalyzed reaction of enol sily ethers and carbonyl compounds prepares aldol products regiospecifically. Aldol type products are stereoselectively synthesized by Claisen rearrangement of silylketene acetals. For aromatic substitution, arylamines are directly converted to aromatic hydrocarbons by alkyl nitrites in DMF­. Alternatively, an aryl halide is produced when cupric halides are added in acetonitrile. The alkyl-nitrite deamination method also provides a convenient variant of the meerwein arylation reaction. In a related method, diazonium ions are converted to phenols with cuprous oxide-cupric nitrate. This radical process avoids the problems of the strongly acidic classical transformation. Phenols may also be converted to anilines via smiles rearrangement that is greatly accelerated by HMPA solvent. An interesting anionic equivalent of the Friedel–Crafts cycloacylation is demonstrated in this chapter. The oxidative reagents absorbed on alumina or silica are generally milder and more selective, and provide for convenient reaction workup. Oxidations of cyclobutanol to cyclobutanone, and β-hydroxysulfides and selenides to the β-keto compounds are accomplished by trichloroacetaldehyde on alumina.
Abstract Previous investigations have shown that the carcinogen vinyl chloride causes base-pair substitution in the bacterium Salmonella typhimurium. The ability of four conceivable metabolites — chloroethylene oxide, chloroacetaldehyde, 2-chloroethanol and chloroacetic acid — to cause base-pair substitution directly in Salmonella typhimurium TA1535 has been compared. The main comparison was performed at initial concentrations from 0.1 to 1.5 mM. In this region, however, a mutagenic effect was observed only with chloroethylene oxide and chloroacetaldehyde, the former being approximately 20 times more effective than the aldehyde when compared on a molar basis. 2-Chloroethanol and chloroacetic acid were studied also at higher concentration (1 mM-1 M), and a weak mutagenic response was found with 1 M 2-chloroethanol solution. With chloroacetic acid no enhancement of the mutation frequency could be detected. Chloroethylene oxide was found to be approximately 450 times more effective as a mutagen than chloroacetaldehyde when the comparison is based on exposure doses, defined as the time-dependent concentrations of the compounds in the treatment solutions, integrated between the times of onset and termination of treatment. Similarly, chloroethylene oxide was 10 000–15 000 times more effective as a mutagen than ethylene oxide, used as a positive control.
The clinical use of cyclophosphamide and ifosfamide is limited by a resultant bladder toxicity which has been attributed to the metabolite acrolein. Another metabolite chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) associated with nephrotoxicity, has not been investigated for toxicity in the bladder and this study investigates the effects of acrolein and CAA on human urothelial cells in vitro. Human urothelial cells (RT4 and T24) were treated with acrolein or CAA and changes in cell viability, reactive oxygen species, caspase-3 activity and release of urothelial mediators ATP, acetylcholine, PGE2 were measured. The protective effects of N-acetyl cysteine (NAC) were also assessed. Both metabolites were toxic to human urothelial cells, however, CAA significantly decreased cell viability at a ten-fold lower concentration (10 µM) than acrolein (100 µM). This was associated with increased ROS production and caspase-3 activity. NAC protected cells from these changes. In RT4 cells 100 µM acrolein caused a significant increase in basal and stretch-induced ATP, Ach and PGE2 release. In T24 cells chloroacetaldehyde (10 µM) increased basal and stimulated ATP and PGE2 levels. Again, NAC protected against changes in urothelial mediator release following acrolein or CAA. This study is the first to report that CAA in addition to acrolein contributes to the urotoxicity of cyclophosphamide and ifosfamide. Both metabolites altered urothelial mediator levels which could contribute to the sensory and functional bladder changes experienced by patients after treatment with cyclophosphamide or ifosfamide. Alterations in urothelial cell viability and mediator release may be causally linked to oxidative stress, with NAC providing protection against these changes.
Abstract The white-rot fungus Trametes versicolor degraded trichloroethylene (TCE), a highly oxidized chloroethene, and produced 2,2,2-trichloroethanol and carbon dioxide as the main products of degradation, based on the results obtained using [ 13 C]-TCE as the substrate. For a range of concentrations of TCE between 2 and 20 mg l −1 , 53% of the theoretical maximum chloride expected from complete degradation of TCE was observed. Laccase was shown to be induced by TCE, but did not appear to play a role in TCE degradation. Cytochrome P-450 appears to be involved in TCE degradation, as evidenced by marked inhibition of degradation of TCE in the presence of 1-aminobenzotriazole, a known inhibitor of cytochrome P-450. Our results suggested that chloral (trichloroacetaldehyde) was an intermediate of the TCE degradation pathway. The results indicate that the TCE degradation pathway in T. versicolor appears to be similar to that previously reported in mammals and is mechanistically quite different from bacterial TCE degradation.
The diphenylboron chelates of ketoxime adducts to formaldehyde and trichloroacetaldehyde (chloral) have been synthesized. The reactions were carried out as three-component one-pot reactions, and al...
Formaldehyde,acetaldehyde,acrolein and trichloroacetaldehyde have been a focus in the environment because of their toxicity and harmfulness as potential carcinogens.The four aldehydes were listed in the environmental quality standard for surface water in China and were monitored each month by the environmental monitoring department.According to the standard methods for determination of the four aldehydes,formaldehyde was determined by spectrophotometry and acetaldehyde,acrolein and trichloroacetaldehyde were detected by Gas Chromatography.A new analytical method has been developed for the determination of the four aldehydes by High Performance Liquid Chromatography(HPLC) after the 2,4-dinitrophenylhadrazine(DNPH) derivatization.The four aldehydes were separated by HPLC with a ternary gradient program,which mobile phase changed by linear gradient from pump A(Φwater=100%) 40%,B(Φmethanol=100%)50%,C(Φacetonitrile=100%) 10% to pump A(Φwater=100%) 20%,B(Φmethanol=100%) 60%,C(Φacetonitrile=100%) 20% in 15 min.Effect factors of acidity,temperature and reaction time on derivatization were studied,and the conditions for separation of four aldehydes were optimized.The water sample initially reacted with DNPH for one hour under the condition of pH=3 and 40℃,and then was extracted by dichloromethane.The recoveries of four compounds were in the range of 73.1%-115%,relative standard deviations were in the range of 0.71%-5.30%,and the detection limits were in the range of 3.50-28.6 μg/L.This method is simple,rapid and sensitive for the determination of the four aldehydes in surface water.
A new method for the rapid determination of plasma adenosine concentrations was developed by using high-performance liquid chromatography with a column switching technique and fluorometric detection. Several "stop solutions" were used to prevent the enzymatic degradation and cellular uptake and release of adenosine in blood samples. Red blood cells and certain denatured proteins were separated by centrifugation. Subsequently, the supernatant was transferred directly into autosample vials and adenosine was reacted with chloroacetaldehyde to form a strong fluorescent, 1-N6-ethenoadenosine. The adenosine derivative was injected directly and separated on a shielded hydrophobic phase column coupled with a C18 reverse-phase column using a column switching valve. Macromolecules and other interfering substances were excluded by the shielded hydrophobic phase column and bypassed to waste. Then, the adenosine derivative and other retained compounds were switched onto the reverse-phase column for further separation and subsequently to the fluorescence detector. The system reduces the analysis time and contamination of the column and hence allows a shorter cleanup time and a longer column lifetime. Adenosine as low as 30 fmol (signal-to-noise ratio, S/N = 3) can be detected by this method. The percentage of recovery of adenosine in plasma treated with adenosine deaminase was above 90%. This method is very rapid (without tedious sample preparation) and sensitive for determining adenosine in canine blood and should prove to be useful in analyzing the effects of ischemia and reperfusion on arterial and coronary venous adenosine concentrations in blood or perfusate samples released from the ischemic or hypoxic myocardium.
Summary The anti-cancer prodrug ifosfamide (IF) is metabolized by liver P450 enzymes by two alternative pathways. IF is activated to 4-hydroxy IF (4-OH-IF), which ultimately yields the alkylating mustard isophosphoramide, whereas IF N-dechlororethylation inactivates the drug and produces the neurotoxic metabolite chloroacetaldehyde (CA). Both reactions are catalysed by multiple liver P450 enzymes in vitro in isolated rat liver microsomes. The present pharmacokinetic study investigates the potential for modulation of these alternative pathways of IF metabolism in vivo using the adult male Fischer 344 rat model. Rats were treated with IF alone or in conjunction with various P450 inducers and inhibitors in an effort to improve the balance between drug activation and drug inactivation. Plasma concentrations, areas under the curve (AUC) and half-lives were calculated for 4-OH-IF and CA, allowing estimations of the extent of IF activation and deactivation/toxification. Induction of liver P450 2B enzymes by 4-day high-dose phenobarbital (PB) pretreatment significantly decreased the fraction of IF undergoing 4-hydroxylation (AUC4 OH -1 AUC4-OH IF+AUCCA), from 37% to 22% of total metabolism (P < 0.05), consistent with in vitro findings that the PBinducible P450 enzyme 2B1 plays a major role in IF N-dechloroethylation. Pretreatment with the P450 3A inducer dexamethasone proportionally decreased the AUC for both IF metabolites, without any net impact on the fraction of IF undergoing metabolic activation. By contrast, the P450 2B1 inhibitor metyrapone preferentially increased the AUC for the 4-hydroxylation pathway in 3-day low-dose PB-induced rats, thereby increasing the total fraction of IF metabolized via the activation pathway from 36% to 54% (P < 0.05), whereas the P450 inhibitors orphenadrine and troleandomycin had no significant affect on AUC values. These findings demonstrate specific roles for P450 2B and 3A enzymes in catalysing these pathways of IF metabolism in vivo, and demonstrate the potential for modulation of IF's alternative metabolic pathways in a therapeutically useful manner. These studies also highlight several clinically relevant drug interactions that may occur during concomitant administration of IF with drugs and other compounds that modulate hepatic P450 enzyme levels.
Abstract A new mutagenesis assay is described which detects the induction of forward mutations in isolated DNA. The assay utilizes replicative from DNA of the temperate Bacillus subtilis phage φ105 and tests the ability of chemicals to induce lesions which inactivate phage genes involved in lysogen formation. There is a cluster of such genes tightly linked to the φ105 genetic marker Jsus11 which restricts the host range of the phage to cells capable of suppressing sus mutations. In the actual assay chemically treated DNA, from wild-type J + phage, is added to competent cells which are infected with φ105 Jsus11 . Wild-type phage, capable of producing plaques on cells which are nonpermissive for φ105 Jsus11 , are produced by recombination between the added chemically-treated DNA and infecting φ105 Jsus11 DNA. If the added DNA also carried mutagenic lesions in any of the genes controlling lysogeny, clear plaque mutants are produced which are readily distinguishable from the turbid plaquing wild-type phage. This report demonstrates the capacity of this marker rescue-based assay to detect as mutagens the following DNA-reactive chemicals: hydroxylamine (HA); N -methyl- N ′-nitro- N -nitrosoguanidine (MNNG); chloroacetaldehyde (CAA); propylene oxide (PO) and N -acetyl- N -acetoxy-2-amino-fluorene (AAAF). The effect of using a host cell, defective for excision repair, on the sensitivity with which the assay detected the mutagenic activities of CAA, PO and AAAF also was examined. The new mutagenesis assay offers 2 advantages over several other previously described transformation-based assays: (1) in contrast to assays based on the induction of ribosome-associated drug resistances, the new assay can detect frameshift as well as base-substitution-type mutagens and (2) the mutants generated can be detected at high plating densities. The assay thus may be useful for general mutagen screening especially with highly bactericidal compounds which are not readily tested in other microbial assays.
The formation of an intramolecular dG.dG.dC triplex in Escherichia coli cells is demonstrated at single-base resolution. The intramolecular dG.dG.dC triplex structure was probed in situ for E. coli cells containing plasmid DNAs with varying lengths of poly(dG).poly(dC) tracts employing chloroacetaldehyde. This chemical probe reacts specifically with unpaired DNA bases. The triplex structure formed with the poly(dG).poly(dC) tracts of 35 and 44 base-pairs, but not with 25 base-pairs. The triplex was detected only one to two hours after the chloramphenicol treatment: the period at which the extracted plasmid DNA revealed the maximal superhelical density.
The results indicate that 2-chloroethylene oxide is formed from vinyl chloride, that 2-chloroethylene oxide is a substrate for epoxide hydratase, and that the rearrangement product 2-chloroacetaldehyde is an important alkylating agent derived from vinyl chloride. The work suggests that a highly electrophilic metabolite can form a less reactive compound which may be more effective in biological alkylations.
Functionalized furans were prepared by 'Feist-Benary-cyclocondensation' of (2,4-dioxobutylidene)phosphoranes with chloroacetaldehyde and subsequent Wittig reactions.
High-dose cyclophosphamide (HD-CTX) treatment often leads to severe nephrotoxicity and neurotoxicity, which are mainly caused by one of its metabolites, chloroacetaldehyde (CAA). However, there are no effective antidotes to prevent these side effects. The objective of this study was to evaluate the effect of Wuzhi Capsule (WZC) on the pharmacokinetics of CTX and its metabolites in rats, and the attenuation of CAA induced kidney and brain injuries, which was produced at equimolar with 2-dechloroethylcyclophosphamide. Rats were treated with single- or multiple-dose of WZC when giving HD-CTX, and the plasma concentration of CTX and its metabolites were quantitated by UHPLC-MS/MS Single-dose, not multiple-dose of WZC co-administration (300 mg/kg) significantly reduced Cmax and AUC0→24 h of DC-CTX by 33.10% and 35.51%, respectively. Biochemical assay suggested oxidative stress was involved in kidney and brain injuries by HD-CTX, which were attenuated by single-dose WZC (300 mg/kg) pre-treatment, with increased glutathione, glutathione peroxidase and superoxide dismutase contents/or activities in both tissues and plasma (P < 0.05). Meanwhile, WZC pre-treatment could also significantly decrease the plasma levels of creatinine, blood urea nitrogen and malondialdehyde (P < 0.05). Additionally, WZC treatment improved the morphology and pathology condition of the kidneys and brains in rats. In conclusion, single-dose WZC co-administration decreased CAA production and exerted protective effect on CTX-induced oxidative stress in kidney and brain, whereas repetitive WZC co-administration with CTX was probably not recommended.
AbstractBackground: Epidemiologic studies suggest that variability in DNA damage from vinyl chloride monomer (VCM) may be partially mediated by genetic polymorphisms in DNA repair. This study aimed to corroborate these observations with controlled experiments in vitro using cell lines from individuals with differing DNA repair genotypes to determine damage following VCM metabolite exposure.Methods: Matched pairs of lymphoblast cell lines (homozygous wild-type versus homozygous variant for either XRCC1 399 or XPD 751 polymorphism) were exposed to chloroacetaldehyde and analyzed by the cytokinesis-block micronucleus assay.Results: All cell lines demonstrated a dose–response of increasing micronuclei with increasing exposure, but for both XRCC1 and XPD, the polymorphic cells peaked at higher micronucleus frequencies and declined at a slower rate to baseline than the wild-type cells.Conclusion: This supports the findings that XRCC1 and XPD polymorphisms may result in deficient DNA repair of VCM-induced geneti...
Osmium tetraoxide, in the presence of ligands such as pyridine and bipyridine, adds across the etheno bridge of 1,N6-etheno-9-methyladenine and poly-1,N6-ethenoadenylic acid. The Os:P ratio in the labeled polynucleotide was approximately equal to 1 when bipyridine was used as the stabilizing ligand. A similar study with polycytidylic acid, which had been partially modified with chloroacetaldehyde so that some bases were converted to 3,N4-ethenocytosine, gave an OS:P ratio of approximately equal to 1.3. Calf-thymus DNA, in which the adenine and cytosine bases were modified by chloroacetaldehyde, gave an Os:P ratio of approximately equal to 1 after 24 h. These results suggest that 3,N4-ethenocytosine will add two Os labels.
Vinyl chloride monomer (VCM) is a human carcinogen. However, the exact mechanism of carcinogenesis remains unclear. 2-Chloroethylene oxide (CEO) and 2-chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), the metabolic intermediates of VCM, induce DNA damage which is mainly repaired by the nucleotide excision repair (NER) pathway. The XPD gene product and the related XPB protein are DNA helicases that are involved in transcription and NER. Polymorphisms of XPD have been implicated in chemical exposure-related health effects. In order to explore the mechanism of VCM-related health effects, a special matched case-control design (exposed workers with DNA damage and without damage) was used to investigate the association between the gene polymorphisms of XPD and DNA damage in 106 male and 44 female workers occupationally exposed to VCM. Exposure and anthropometrics information was collected through in-person interview. Such information was then used to calculate cumulative exposure doses of the workers. DNA damage in peripheral lymphocytes was measured by the single cell gel electrophoresis (SCGE) assay that identified DNA strand breaks. Genomic DNA from lymphocytes was used in genotyping assays. Genotypes of XPD Ile199Met, XPD Asp312Asn, and XPD Lys751Gln were identified by the polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) procedure. The results indicate that the genotypes of XPD 751Lys/Gln and Gln/Gln were significantly associated with the expression of DNA damages (OR 2.21, P<0.05, 95% CI 1.01-5.13). An interesting observation is the reduction of DNA damage for workers with high VCM exposure and possessing the XPD Asp/Asn and Asn/Asn genotypes (OR 0.33, 95% CI 0.11-0.95). Polymorphisms of XPD may therefore be a major reason of genetic susceptibility in VCM-induced DNA damage and health consequences.
N alpha-tosyl-L-lysine chloromethyl ketone (TLCK) stimulates lipid synthesis in locust fat body in vitro, and is able to reverse the inhibitory effects of AKH-I on lipid synthesis. Effective stimulatory concentrations of TLCK were in the range of 0.2-1.0 mM. Similar stimulatory effects were also achieved with phenylalanine chloromethyl ketone (PheCK) and leucine chloromethyl ketone (LeuCK), but not with tosyl-phenylalanine chloromethyl ketone (TPCK), dansyl-glu-gly-arg-CK, chloroacetone, chloroacetic acid, chloroacetamide, chloroacetaldehyde, chloroacetyl-L-leucine or acetylated or fluorescamine-labelled TLCK, PheCK, and LeuCK. The level of stimulation caused by TLCK was dependent on incubation time, so that after a 5-h preincubation of fat body tissue with TLCK the stimulated rate was severalfold higher than the control. TLCK also increased the rate of uptake of trehalose and uridine, but not glucose, deoxyglucose or glycine. Increasing concentrations of bovine serum albumin (BSA) in the incubation medium caused a reduction in the rate of TLCK-stimulated acetate uptake, such that levels of uptake were no higher with 1% BSA than in the controls. A range of more specific protease and kinase inhibitors was tested, but none caused stimulation; thus the mode of action of TLCK on the stimulation of acetate uptake has yet to be identified. Elucidation of the mode of action of TLCK may facilitate the development of novel compounds for insect pest control.
N-(Polychloroethylidene)arene-and -trifluoromethanesulfonamides reacted with indole and N-substituted indoles to give the corresponding N-[2,2-dichloro(or 2,2,2-trichloro)-1-(1H-indol-3-yl)ethyl]-substituted sulfonamides. Unlike N-(2,2,2-trichloroethylidene)trifluoromethanesulfonamide, less electrophilic N-(poly-chloroethylidene)arenesulfonamides failed to react with 1-(4-nitrophenyl)-1H-indole. Previously unknown N,N’-bis(2,2-dichloroethylidene)biphenyl-4,4’-disulfonamide reacted with 1-benzyl-1H-indole at both azomethine fragments. Likewise, reactions of 1,6-bis(1H-indol-1-yl)hexane and 1,4-bis(1H-indol-1-ylmethyl)-benzene with N-sulfonyl trichloroacetaldehyde imines involved both indole rings in the former.
Chemical probing studies by single-strand specific enzymes or reagents have shown that S/MARs can undergo strand separation in vivo (reviewed in Bode et al., 1996) or under the negative superhelicity of a plasmid in vitro (Bode et al., 1992) . Interestingly, these reactivity data can be matched by computer analysis after applying superhelical tension (Benham et al., 1997 and Fig. 2). For these analyses the sequences in question are analyzed as part of a plasmid, i.e. under the superhelical density as it exists for the in vitro experiment (σ = -0.055). Although prokaryotes do not contain S/MAR-type sequences (which is most evident from the fact that prokaryotic DNA at any excess does not interfere with a S/MAR-scaffold re-association in vitro) common bacterial 3 plasmids show two well characterized, narrow unwinding elements (UEs) that flank the ampicillin resistance gene (Benham, 1997) . Although these sites are too restricted to mediate scaffold attachment, they serve as convenient internal standards for the quantification of the related, but more extensive features in prototype S/MARs. If we clone a 2.2 kb S/MAR sequence, derived from the human interferon-ß upstream domain border, into our standard pTZ18R vector, it forms an extended base-unpairing region (BUR). This BUR consists of multiple UEs some of which compete efficiently with the mentioned internal markers. Among the UEs there may be a prominent one, the so called `core-unwinding elementA (CUE) and this is usually the nucleation center of unwinding which is preferentially modified by single-strand specific reagents such as chloroacetaldehyde or potassium permanganate (see the signal at the CUE-position in Fig. 2 ). The S/MAR insert, called `IA in Mielke et al. (1990) , and an 800 bp subfragment (`IVA, ibid.) which include the CUE are prototype elements that have been used by us and others in a variety of biological test systems.
It is established that dissolved organic nitrogen (DON) precursors, for example, the amino acids, can react with chlorine to form halogenated N-DBPs [4, 6, [15] [16] [17] . Nonetheless, recent studies have reported that chloramines may provide the nitrogen in HANs and HNMs, during reactions with organic nitrogen precursors [18, 19] . And, it was found that non-nitrogenous lignin phenols and chloroacetaldehyde could react with chloramines to form dichloroacetonitrile (DCAN) and chloroacetonitrile, respectively [20, 21] . However, knowledge gaps remain regarding whether chloramine may also contribute the nitrogen in HAcAms, and more broadly whether chloramine can also react with non-nitrogenous precursors to produce nitrogenous HAcAms.
Polaromonas sp. strain JS666 grows on cis-1,2-dichoroethene (cDCE) as the sole carbon and energy source under aerobic conditions, but the degradation mechanism and the enzymes involved are unknown. In this study, we established the complete pathway for cDCE degradation through heterologous gene expression, inhibition studies, enzyme assays, and analysis of intermediates. Several lines of evidence indicate that a cytochrome P450 monooxygenase catalyzes the initial step of cDCE degradation. Both the transient accumulation of dichloroacetaldehyde in cDCE-degrading cultures and dichloroacetaldehyde dehydrogenase activities in cell extracts of JS666 support a pathway for degradation of cDCE through dichloroacetaldehyde. The mechanism minimizes the formation of cDCE epoxide. The molecular phylogeny of the cytochrome P450 gene and the organization of neighboring genes suggest that the cDCE degradation pathway recently evolved in a progenitor capable of degrading 1,2-dichloroethane either by the recruitment of the cytochrome P450 monooxygenase gene from an alkane catabolic pathway or by selection for variants of the P450 in a preexisting 1,2-dichloroethane catabolic pathway. The results presented here add yet another role to the broad array of productive reactions catalyzed by cytochrome P450 enzymes.
Ifosfamide (IF) improves survival in children with solid tumors but causes a high rate of nephrotoxicity. We hypothesized that this is caused by an oxidative metabolite of IF, chloroacetaldehyde, which is produced locally by the cells of the renal tubule (RT). For this hypothesis to be viable, one must document that chloroacetaldehyde concentrations in the RT cell are consistent with levels shown to cause nephrotoxicity in experimental systems. Using pharmacokinetic modeling of experimental data, we show that the median level of chloroacetaldehyde in RT cells is 80 micromol/L, ranging from 35 to 320 micromol/L. These concentrations are consistent with levels shown experimentally to cause functional and structural RT damage and lends validity to the hypothesis that local renal production of chloroacetaldehyde causes nephrotoxicity.
The condensation reactions of ferrocene with various ketones and with trichloroacetaldehyde in the presence of aluminum chloride were investigated. The formation of carbinol (7) as an intermediate was postulated in these reactions. In the reaction of acetone with ferrocene, the intermediate carbinol underwent further condensation with other ferrocene molecules to give oligomers (9). On the other hand, in the cases of methyl ethyl ketone, acetophenone, propiophenone, cyclohexanone, and trichloroacetaldehyde, the condensation reactions produced olefinic compounds via the intermediate carbinols. The intermediate carbinol was isolated together with the olefin in the reaction with trichloroacetaldehyde.
The reaction of DNA with certain bis-electrophiles such as chlorooxirane and chloroacetaldehyde produces etheno adducts. These lesions are highly miscoding, and some of the chemical agents that produce them have been shown to be carcinogenic in laboratory animals and in humans. An intermediate in the formation of 1,N2-ethenoguanine is 6-hydroxy-3,5,6,7-tetrahydro-9H-imidazo[1,2-a]purin-9-one (6-hydroxyethanoguanine), which undergoes conversion to the etheno adduct. The chemical properties and miscoding potential of the hydroxyethano adduct have not been previously studied. A synthesis of the hydroxyethano-adducted nucleoside was developed, and it was site specifically incorporated into oligonucleotides. This adduct had a half-life of between 24 and 48 h at neutral pH and 25 degrees C at the nucleoside and oligonucleotide levels. The miscoding potential of the hydroxyethano adduct was examined by primer extension reactions with the DNA polymerases Dpo4 and pol T7-, and the results were compared to the corresponding etheno-adducted oligonucleotide. Dpo4 preferentially incorporated dATP opposite the hydroxyethano adduct and dGTP opposite the etheno adduct; pol T7- preferentially incorporated dATP opposite the etheno adduct while dGTP and dATP were incorporated opposite the hydroxyethano adduct with nearly equal catalytic efficiencies. Collectively, these results indicate that the hydroxyethano adduct has a sufficient lifetime and miscoding properties to contribute to the mutagenic spectrum of chlorooxirane and related genotoxic species.
Encephalopathy is a well-known adverse effect of ifosfamide caused by the accumulation of chloroacetaldehyde, a neurotoxic metabolite. It commonly develops within 2 hours to 6 days in about 2– 30% of patients who are exposed to ifosfamide and usually fades away in a few hours to few days after the discontinuation of ifosfamide in some cases. However, it may progress to severe, progressive encephalopathy that ends with death. Accumulation of chloroacetaldehyde to high levels interferes with the functions of flavoproteins in the mitochondria and leads to the observed central nervous system (CNS) disturbances. Methylene blue has been successfully administered for the reversal of this unfavorable event. We report the case of a 19-year-old woman, with relapsed Hodgkin's lymphoma, who developed ifosfamide-induced encephalopathy 16 days after the first exposure to rituximab, ifosfamide, carboplatin, and etoposide (R-ICE) protocol as second-line chemotherapy. R-ICE consisted of rituximab 375 mg/m2 and ifosfamide 5000 mg/ m2 along with mesna 5000 mg/m2, carbopaltin AUC 5, and etoposide 100 mg/ m2 and was given every 21 days. The patient presented with drowsiness, agitation, altered sensorium, and tonic clonic convulsions [National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria (NCI-CTC) stage IV]. Her laboratory investigations, including blood and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) chemistry, septic screen, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain were normal, and electroencephalogram (EEG) showed diffuse slow wave, which was indicative of metabolic encephalopathy. Ifosfamide-induced encephalopathy was suspected, and the patient was given methylene blue 50 mg intravenously every 6 hours for 3 days, with dramatic response within 6 hours and complete recovery in 24 hours after the first dose of methylene blue. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first case of ifosfamide-induced encephalopathy presented 16 days after ifosfamide exposure.
ABSTRACT Chlorinated ethylenes are activated metabolically to epoxides. Evidence for this first step reaction is obtained from the excreted metabolites, chlorinated ethanols and acetic acids. These can be derived from the epoxide rearrangement products, chlorinated aldehydes or acyl chlorides. An exception to this rule is encountered with trichloroethylene the epoxide of which rearranges in vitro to dichloroacetyl chloride whereas the metabolites are oxidation or reduction products, respectively of trichloroacetaldehyde. Since the rearrangement to the aldehyde can be forced by the presence of Lewis acids it is concluded that in vivo trichloroethylene expoxide is converted, by virtue of the trivalent iron of P450, at the site of formation in the hydrophobic premise to chloral. According to results in a modified Ames test system vinyl chloride, vinylidene chloride and trichloroethylene exert mutagenic activity after activation by induced liver microsomes, whereas tetra- and 1.2-dichloroethylenes (cis and trans) are inactive. A molecular rule is derived from these findings that unsymmetric chlorine substitution induces, by an imbalanced electron withdrawing effect, the epoxides highly electrophilic, as a prerequisite for mutagenicity and carcinogenicity.
Abstract Biological activated carbon (BAC) is widely used as a polishing step at full-scale drinking water plants to remove taste and odor compounds and assimilable organic carbon. BAC, especially with pre-ozonation, has been previously studied to control regulated disinfection by-products (DBPs) and DBP precursors. However, most previous studies only include regulated or a limited number of unregulated DBPs. This study explored two full-scale drinking water plants that use pre-chloramination followed by BAC and chloramine as the final disinfectant. While chloramine generally produces lower concentrations of regulated DBPs, it may form increased levels of unregulated nitrogenous and iodinated DBPs. We evaluated 71 DBPs from ten DBP classes including haloacetonitriles, haloacetamides, halonitromethanes, haloacetaldehydes, haloketones, iodinated acetic acids, iodinated trihalomethanes, nitrosamines, trihalomethanes, and haloacetic acids, along with speciated total organic halogen (total organic chlorine, bromine and iodine) across six different BAC filters of increasing age. Most preformed DBPs were well removed by BAC with different ages (i.e., operation times). However, some preformed DBPs were poorly removed or increased following treatment with BAC, including chloroacetaldehyde, dichloronitromethane, bromodichloronitromethane, N-nitrosodimethylamine, dibromochloromethane, tribromomethane, dibromochloroacetic acid, and tribromoacetic acid. Some compounds, including dibromoacetaldehyde, bromochloroacetamide, and dibromoacetamide, were formed only after treatment with BAC. Total organic halogen removal was variable in both plants and increases in TOCl or TOI were observable on one occasion at each plant. While calculated genotoxicity decreased in all filters, decreases in overall DBP formation did not correlate with decreases in calculated cytotoxicity. In three of the six filters, calculated toxicity increased by 4–27%. These results highlight that DBP concentration alone may not always provide an adequate basis for risk assessment.
The reaction of 2-mercaptonaphth[1,2-d]imidazole with chloroacetaldehyde, bromoacetaldehyde, and α-bromopropionaldehyde diethylacetals leads to the formation of (naphth[1,2-d]-2-mercaptoimidazolyl)acetaldehyde and α-(naphth[1,2-d]-2-mercaptoimidazolyl)propionaldehyde which in the solid state exist as tautomeric forms — 3-hydroxy derivatives of naphth[1,2-d]-imidazo[3,2-d]thiazoline. The corresponding naphth[1,2-d]imidazo[3,2-b]thiazoles were obtained by dehydration of the latter. The structure of the four-ring compounds was proved by reductive desulfurizatton to 3-alkylnaphth[1,2-d]imidazoles and alternative synthesis from 2-chloro-3-acylnaethylnaphth[1,2-d]imidazoles.
Research on crystallization of hydrate trichloroacetaldehyde was reported. To a mixture of equal molars of trichloroacetaldehyde and water, chloroform was added at temperature of 40℃～50℃, and modifier HS was added at the beginning of crystallization. This shortened the time of crystallization and drying 50%, and yield and purity of product 84% and 99.5%, respectively.
DNA sequences surrounding the immunoglobulin heavy chain (IgH) enhancer contain negative regulatory elements which are important for the tissue specificity of the enhancer. We have shown that sequences located both 5' and 3' of the enhancer, corresponding to the negative regulatory elements, become stably and uniformly unpaired over an extended length when subjected to torsional stress. These DNA sequences are also included within matrix association regions. The ability of the sequences to assume a stably unpaired conformation was shown by reactivity with chloroacetaldehyde which is specific for unpaired DNA bases, as well as two-dimensional gel electrophoresis of topoisomers. The sequences located 3' of the enhancer induce base unpairing in the direction of the enhancer. This unpaired region progressively expands to include as much as 200 base pairs as the ionic concentration decreases or superhelical density increases. When an ATATAT motif within a negative regulatory element located 3' of the enhancer was mutated, the extensive base-unpairing property was abolished. This base-unpairing property of DNA may be important for negative regulation of gene expression and attachment to the nuclear matrix.
If rats are exposed to 14C-vinyl chloride, radioactivity is incorporated into nucleic acids of the liver. In previous investigations (Toxicology 8, 185, 1977) we showed incorporation of radioactivity from 14C-vinyl chloride into the physiological bases of RNA. In addition, alkylation of adenosine and cytidine moieties occurred leading to formation of radioactive 1,N6-ethenoadenosine and 3,N4-ethenocytidine. The time courses of 1,N6-ethenoadenosine and 3,N4-ethenocytidine in rat liver RNA after vinyl chloride inhalation are dissimilar: 92 hrs after ending exposure the ethenoadenosine is only 1/5 of its original value whereas the content of ethenocytidine persists. This ought to be indicative for the relative importance of cytidine alkylation. Formation of labelled etheno derivatives of adenosine and cytidine was also observed if rats were exposed to 14C-vinyl bromide. To establish possible changes in DNA due to alkylation by vinyl chloride metabolites, DNA was incubated with rat liver microsomes, NADPH and 14C-vinyl chloride. Re-isolation of the DNA, hydrolysis and separation of the nucleosides on Aminex-A-6 showed that small amounts of radioactive 1,N6-etheno 2′deoxyadenosine and 3,N4-etheno 2′deoxycytidine were formed. Besides, a major alkylation product, presumably of 2′deoxy guanosine was isolated which, on Aminex-A-6-columns, showed the same chromatographic behavior as a compound which was obtained from chemical reaction of 2′deoxyguanosine with chloroacetaldehyde.
Summary Urinary drug metabolites were measured in 21 patients receiving ifosfamide by continuous infusion over 3 days. Mean values for the proportion of drug excreted as parent compound, 2-dechloroethylifosfamide (2-DC), 3-dechloroethylifosfamide (3-DC), carboxyifosfamide (CX) and ifosforamide mustard (IPM) were 19, 6, 10, 7 and 8% of dose respectively. The proportion of urinary drug products in the form of ifosfamide fell considerably over the course of the 3 days. This was mirrored by an increase in the proportion of 2-DC, 3 al., 1974; Sladek, 1988 ) (see Figure 1 for a summary of the metabolic pathways). Ifosfamide is converted to its active intermediate (4-OH-IFOS) by the cytochrome P450 enzymes (Connors et al., 1974) . There is evidence for enzyme induction by repeated administration (Nelson et al., 1976; Piazza et al., 1984; Wagner & Drings, 1986; Lind et al., 1989; Lewis et al., 1990) , and this may alter the proportions of metabolites formed. Toxicity is common and may be severe. Whereas some sideeffects -myelosuppression and alopecia -are related to the tumoricidal metabolite ifosforamide mustard, other toxicities appear to be due to other products. Bladder toxicity and nephrotoxicity are almost certainly caused by acrolein (Brock et al., 1981) , formed in equimolar amounts with ifosforamide mustard (Alarcon et al., 1972) . The cause of the neurotoxicity seen following ifosfamide therapy is less certain, but it may be related to chloroacetaldehyde formed during the loss of the chloroethyl moieties (Norpoth, 1976; Goren et al., 1986) . This compound could also contribute to renal damage (Skinner et al., 1993) . The co-products of these pathways are 2-dechloro-and 3-dechloroifosfamide. Clearly, the efficacy and toxicity of ifosfamide will relate to the activity of the products of not only the above pathways, but also other inactivating pathways, notably 4-keto ifosfamide and carboxyifosfamide.
Abstract Cardiovascular effects have often been found in 2-chloroethanol (2-CE) intoxicated patients, but the 2-CE elicits cardiovascular toxicity mechanism is not clear. Recently, we have found that chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) accumulation in 2-CE-intoxicated rat’s blood and play an important role in 2-CE intoxication. In this study, we used an isolated rat atrium model to examine the cardiotoxicity of 2-CE and CAA. Results indicated that 2-CE did not cause tension arrest in isolated rat right atria, but CAA did. 2-CE caused tension inhibition in the isolated rat left atria. In addition, CAA caused significant tension inhibition and contracture in the isolated rat left atria. Nifedipine, an L-type calcium channel blocker, decreased CAA-induced tension inhibition and contracture. Meanwhile, atrial nNOS and calmodulin (CaM) had significantly greater expression in the 2-CE group and the CAA group than control group. Nifedipine could decrease CAA-induced nNOS and CaM expression. 2-CE-induced cardiovascular toxicity might be due to its metabolite CAA. CAA-induced cardiovascular toxicity might be mediated by calcium channel and nifedipine protected against nNOS-triggered cardiovascular effects.
1. The formation of a stable fluorescent product between chloroacetaldehyde and adenine or its derivatives provides the basis of a rapid simple assay for total adenine compounds in blood platelets and in plasma. The assay will measure down to 200pmol of adenine nucleotides. An evaluation of the method established the optimum conditions for the production of maximum fluorescence. 2. Values obtained for total adenine compounds in platelets were 12.9nmol/10(8) cells in man and 7.8nmol/10(8) cells in rat. These closely agree with previous values for total platelet adenine nucleotides found by using a firefly luciferase assay, or a recycled NAD-linked photometric assay. This supports the concept that the chloroacetaldehyde reaction measures total adenine nucleotides in platelets. 3. Platelet aggregation induced by collagen was studied photometrically in 0.1ml volumes of citrated platelet-rich plasma, and total adenine nucleotides were assayed in platelets and plasma before and after aggregation. During aggregation 58% of adenine nucleotides were released from human platelets, and 36% from rat platelets. 4. The chloroacetaldehyde assay is no substitute for more sophisticated procedures, but is a simple sensitive means of monitoring the release of adenine nucleotides from blood platelets and is particularly valuable when small plasma samples must be used.
Renal proximal tubule dysfunction has been reported in patients treated with the chemotherapeutic agent ifosfamide. The present study investigated whether ifosfamide or its metabolites acrolein and chloroacetaldehyde would impair function in the isolated perfused rat kidney. Renal function was monitored before and after these chemicals were added to a modified Krebs-Ringer-bicarbonate perfusion medium containing 6.6 g/dl albumin and a mixture of substrates. No functional changes were observed when ifosfamide (470 microM) or acrolein (470 microM) was added to the perfusate. Addition of chloroacetaldehyde (210 microM) resulted in significant decreases in the fractional reabsorption of sodium (from 92 to 32%), glucose (from 97 to 46%), inorganic phosphate (from 88 to 22%), and inorganic sulfate (from 94 to 86%). There were no changes in glomerular filtration rate. PAH clearance also significantly decreased from 4.1 to 0.7 ml/min per gram of kidney weight, indicating impairment of proximal tubule organic acid secretion. This impairment was associated with a significant decline in the extraction ratio for PAH, suggesting abnormal PAH uptake at the basolateral membrane. These results show that chloroacetaldehyde causes generalized renal proximal tubule dysfunction and that it may be the ifosfamide metabolite responsible for nephrotoxic side effects.
An improved assay was used to investigate the effects of hypoxia or ischemia on interstitial fluid and coronary venous effluent levels of adenosine in isolated perfused nonworking rat hearts. The adenosine in 5- to 10-microliter samples of left ventricular epicardial surface transudates and coronary effluents was reacted with chloroacetaldehyde, and the fluorescent derivative (1,N6-ethenoadenosine) was quantitated using high pressure liquid chromatography and fluorescence detection. Hearts responding to hypoxia could be separated into two groups. In one group of hearts, the control (normoxic) transudate and effluent adenosine concentrations were 94 +/- 24 and 41 +/- 6 pmol/ml, respectively. These values increased by 118 and 96%, respectively, with 5 minutes of hypoxia (30% O2), and returned to control levels 5 minutes after resumption of normoxia. In a second group of hearts, the normoxic control levels of adenosine in the transudates (42 +/- 7 pmol/ml) and coronary effluents (62 +/- 17 pmol/ml) were increased with hypoxia by 174 and 1,178%, respectively. However, the transudate levels continued to rise for 5 minutes after resumption of normoxic perfusion while effluent levels fell. In another series of hearts, global ischemia for 30 seconds elicited an elevation of transudate adenosine levels by 362 to 641% above control (58 +/- 15 pmol/ml) as determined 30 seconds after resumption of perfusion flow.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Cellular assays have become a fundamental technique in scientific research, pharmaceutical drug screening or toxicity testing. Therefore, the requirements of technical developments for automated assays raised in the same rate. A novel measuring platform was developed, which combines automated assay processing with label-free high-content measuring and real-time monitoring of multiple metabolic and morphologic parameters of living cells or tissues. Core of the system is a test plate with 24 cell culture wells, each equipped with opto-chemical sensor-spots for the determination of cellular oxygen consumption and extracellular acidification, next to electrode-structures for electrical impedance sensing. An automated microscope provides the optical sensor read-out and allows continuous cell imaging. Media and drugs are supplied by a pipetting robot system. Therefore, assay can run over several days without personnel interaction. To demonstrate the performance of the platform in physiologic assays, we continuously recorded the kinetics of metabolic and morphologic parameters of MCF-7 breast cancer cells under the influence of the cytotoxin chloroacetaldehyde. The data point out the time resolved effect kinetics over the complete treatment period. Thereby, the measuring platform overcomes problems of endpoint tests, which cannot monitor the kinetics of different parameters of the same cell population over longer time periods.
Combination the non-thermal plasma technique by photocatalytic oxidation can enhance volatile organic compounds degradation. In this study, the decomposition of chloroform vapors in a novel non-thermal plasma reactor as well as an integrated system of this reactor in conjunction with the photocatalysis process was investigated. Expanded graphite was used as discharge electrode of dielectric barrier discharge reactor and the support of TiO2 and ZnO catalysts as well. Results showed that chloroform degradation increased in hybrid system. The non-thermal plasma reactor had high content of NO and NO2, whereas the concentration of these two pollutants dropped dramatically in hybrid system; moreover, the generated ozone from the non-thermal plasma process was degraded on the photocatalyst and consequently was not detected in the output gas of the combined system. The generated organic by-products in non-thermal plasma process (phosgene and trichloroacetaldehyde) were reoxidized with un-oxidized chloroform in the second stage of the combined system. This increased the selectivity of CO2 and Cl2.
DNA base modifications and mutations are observed in all genomes throughout the kingdoms of life. Proteins involved in their establishment and removal were shown to use a base flipping mechanism to access their substrates. To better understand how proteins flip DNA bases to modify or remove them, we optimized and developed a pipeline of methods to step-by-step detect the process starting with protein-DNA interaction, base flipping itself and the ensuing DNA base modification or excision. As methylcytosine is the best-studied DNA modification, here we focus on the process of writing, modifying and reading this DNA base. Using multicolor electrophoretic mobility shift assays, we show that the methylcytosine modifier Tet1 exhibits little DNA sequence specificity with only a slight preference for methylated CpG containing DNA. A combination of chloroacetaldehyde treatment and high-resolution melting temperature analysis allowed us to detect base flipping induced by the methylcytosine modifier Tet1 as well as the methylcytosine writer M.HpaII. Finally, we show that high-resolution melting temperature analysis can be used to detect the activity of glycosylases, methyltransferases and dioxigenases on DNA substrates. Taken together, this DNA base flipping analytical pipeline (BaFAP) provide a complete toolbox for the fast and sensitive analysis of proteins that bind, flip and modify or excise DNA bases.
Poster Sessions substitution induced stabilizing effects via more number of inter molecular hydrogen bonds. The strong intramolecular N-H...N bond locks the molecular conformation and eliminates conformational flexibility in all derivatives. The comparative study on detailed structural features, intermolecular interactions and modes of packing will be presented. 1. Thalladi, V.R., et al,(1998). J.Am. Chem. Soc.120, 8702-8710. 2. Chandrakumar et al. Acta Cryst. (2005). E61, o2444-o2446. 3. Mohan, S. et al, (2003). Asian J. Chem. 15, 67-70. 4. Anilkumar G.N. et al, Acta Cryst. (2007). E63, o2077-o2079. The synthesis and design of the compounds possessing important pharmacological and biological properties is an important area of research. In this respect, Schiff bases and their related thiophene derivatives containing amino and carboxyl functions have been synthesized. They have been found to exhibit broad spectrum of biological activities such as antiviral, antiinflammatory and antimicrobial activities 1 . Specifically, 2-aminothiophene-3-carboxylates and carboxamides were recognized as allosteric enhancers for A1 adenosine receptors 2 . In view of the above and in continuation of our work on structural studies of thiophene 3-carboxamide derivatives 3 , crystal structure of "2-{[(1E)-(2-chlorophenyl)methylene]amino}-N-(2-furylmethyl)-4,5-dimethylthiophene-3-carboxamide" was determined. The compound C24H25N3O2S, crystallizes under Orthorhombic system, P212121 space group, a = 6.1105(19), b = 15.977(5) and c = 18.575(6) Å, V = 1813.5(10) Å -3 , Z= 4, & D= 1.366 Mgm -3 . The intensity data were collected using Bruker Smart CCD diffractometer using graphite monochromated MoKα radiation. The structure was solved using SIR92 program and refined using fullmatrix least squares on F 2 to an R value of 0.056 using SHELXL-97 for 2842 reflections with I>2 σ(I). In the non-planar molecule, the furan and chlorophenyl ring making dihedral angle of 89.1(2) and 15.8 (7) Thiophene derivates containing amino and carboxyl functions have been found to exhibit broad spectrum of biological activities like anti-viral, anti-inflammatory, antimicrobial activities. Specifically, the 2-amino-carboxylic acid esters were recognized as allosteric enhancers for A1 adenosine receptors. Recent Structure activity relation studies have shown that the amides also exhibit similar properties. Our earlier investigations on the structures of biologically active thiophene 3-carboxamides, has shown that the chloro substitution in the aryl amide group had a significant effect 1 . The ortho -chloro group reversed the orientation of the amide linkage and favoured the formation of more intra molecular hydrogen bonds. The para-chloro substitution induced stabilizing effects via more number of inter molecular hydrogen bonds. The titled compound in the present study bears a close structural relationship with the reported allosteric enhancers for adenosine 2 and hence its structure has been investigated. The compound C9H12N2OS, crystallizes under Tetragonal system, I 41/a space group, a = b = 20.5807(16) Å and c = 8.9233(13) Å, V = 3779.6(7) Å 3 , Z= 16, µ = 0.303 mm -1 , & D= 1.38 gm -3 .The three dimensional intensity data were collected using Bruker Smart CCD diffractometer using graphite monochromated MoKα radiation. The structure was solved using SIR92 program and refined till R value converges to 0.0576. The crystal structure stabilized by both intra and intermolecular N-H...O hydrogen bonds. The title compound, C13H15ClO, crystallize in orthorhombic space group Pca21, and has a nonplanar conformation. The phenyl ring and chloroacetaldehyde group are in cis positions. The cyclobutane ring is puckered, with a dihedral angle of 26.81 (13) C396
Cells were freshly prepared and adjusted to 1 × 10 8 cells/mL before implantation. An intracranial xenograft was performed according to protocols approved by the China Medical University Animal Care and Use Committee. Briefly, nude mice were anesthetized and placed in a stereotactic frame, and the skulls were exposed by incision. In each skull, a hole was made 0.6 mm anterior, 1.8 mm to the right of the bregma, and cells (5 mL) were injected using a 10-mL Hamilton syringe with a 26S-gage needle mounted in a stereotactic holder. The syringe was lowered to a depth of 3 mm, and the cells were injected at a rate of 10 mL/min. After intracranial implantation, a 5-min waiting period was observed before slowly withdrawing the syringe to prevent any reflux. The skull was then cleaned and the incision was sutured. Tumors were allowed to grow, and animals were sacrificed on day 28. Under deep anesthesia with trichloroacetaldehyde, each mouse was transcardially perfused with a saline solution (0.9% NaCl) and then fixed with 4% paraformaldehyde dissolved in 0.1 M PBS. The brains were removed from the skulls, postfixed overnight in buffered 4% paraformaldehyde at 48C, stored in a 30% sucrose solution at 48C until they sank, and were frozen sectioned on a sliding microtome in 10-mm-thick coronal sections. To determine the brain volume, brain sections were stained with hematoxylin.
An improved assay was used to investigate the effects of hypoxia or ischemia on interstitial fluid and coronary venous effluent levels of adenosine in isolated perfused nonworking rat hearts. The adenosine in 5-to 10-/il samples of left ventricular epicardial surface transudates and coronary effluents was reacted with chloroacetaldehyde, and the fluorescent derivative (l,A*-ethenoadenosine) was quantitated using high pressure liquid chromatography and fluorescence detection. Hearts responding to hypoxia could be separated into two groups. In one group of hearts, the control (normoxic) transudate and effluent adenosine concentrations were 94 ± 24 and 41 ± 6 pmol/ml, respectively. These values increased by 118 and 96%, respectively, with 5 minutes of hypoxia (30% 6^, and returned to control levels 5 minutes after resumption of normoxia. In a second group of hearts, the normoxic control levels of adenosine in the transudates (42 ± 7 pmol/ml) and coronary effluents (62 ± 17 pmol/ml) were increased with hypoxia by 174 and 1,178%, respectively. However, the transudate levels continued to rise for 5 minutes after resumption of normoxic perfusion while effluent levels fell. In another series of hearts, global ischemia for 30 seconds elicited an elevation of transudate adenosine levels by 362 to 641 % above control (58 ± 15 pmol/ml) as determined 30 seconds after resumption of perfusion flow. These data suggest that 1) the adenosine concentration in the interstitium of the oxygenated nonworking rat heart is 4 x 10" 8 to 1 x 10" A denosine modulates heart function and blood / \ flow by interacting with sarcolemmal adeno-A. X . sine receptors of myocardial and vascular smooth muscle cells. Heart levels of adenosine are known to fluctuate; for example, ischemia, hypoxia, or /3-adrenergic stimulation results in enhanced adenosine levels in the heart. 1 "* These elevated levels of adenosine affect the heart by 1) reducing tension development of coronary vascular smooth muscle, 4 2) curtailing the impulse conduction velocity in atrioventricular nodal tissue, 7 and, 3) antagonizing /3-adrenergic-induced contractile and metabolic activity of the myocardium.
15 " 17 In this study, the adenosine in microliter samples of interstitial fluid (transudates) obtained from the epicardial surface of normoxic, hypoxic, or postischemic rat ventricles was derivatized with chloroacetaldehyde, and the fluorescent derivative was assayed to reveal those concentrations of adenosine in interstitial space fluid to which cardiac cells are exposed.
Combination the non-thermal plasma technique by photocatalytic oxidation can enhance volatile organic compounds degradation. In this study, the decomposition of chloroform vapors in a novel non-thermal plasma reactor as well as an integrated system of this reactor in conjunction with the photocatalysis process was investigated. Expanded graphite was used as discharge electrode of dielectric barrier discharge reactor and the support of TiO 2 and ZnO catalysts as well. Results showed that chloroform degradation increased in hybrid system. The non-thermal plasma reactor had high content of NO and NO 2 , whereas the concentration of these two pollutants dropped dramatically in hybrid system; moreover, the generated ozone from the non-thermal plasma process was degraded on the photocatalyst and consequently was not detected in the output gas of the combined system. The generated organic by-products in non-thermal plasma process (phosgene and trichloroacetaldehyde) were reoxidized with un-oxidized chloroform in the second stage of the combined system. This increased the selectivity of CO 2 and Cl 2 .
The objective of this study was to investigate the effect of the combined system of PCO with NTP on the removal of chloroform vapors. For this reason, the effects of plasma discharge electrode, the applied voltage, the inlet concentration and flow rate on the chloroform removal were studied. Furthermore, the effects of this system on the elimination of by-products such as phosgene, trichloroacetaldehyde, ozone and NO x were investigated. The research was conducted from November 2013 to April 2014 in the laboratory of Hamedan University of Medical Sciences.
In this study, the decomposition of chloroform vapors in a NTP reactor as well as a combined system of this reactor in conjunction with photocatalyst was investigated. The findings showed that the efficiency decreased by increasing flow rate, which was because of the fact that residence time decreased. However, by increasing the inlet concentration in NTP system higher efficiency was seen, because the reactor had larger discharge gap. Analysis of the output gas showed that the NTP system had high concentration of NO and NO 2 , but in combined system the concentration of these two pollutants dropped dramatically. NO x removal efficiency for the PCO system was a function of flow rate and it increased when flow rate increased. The content of effluent ozone from the DBD reactor was little and constant which might be on account of the EG in the reactor, which acted as a catalyst in the presence of ozone and degraded ozone. The generated ozone from the NTP system was degraded in PCO and consequently was not detected in output gas of the combined system. The generated organic by-products in NTP process were: phosgene and trichloroacetaldehyde, which were reoxidized with un-oxidized chloroform in the second stage of the combined system. This increased the selectivity of CO 2 and Cl 2 . Based on these results, the combined system is preferred due to higher removal efficiency, complete mineralization and lower harmful by-products.
DNA base modifications and mutations are observed in all genomes throughout the kingdoms of life. Proteins involved in their establishment and removal were shown to use a base flipping mechanism to access their substrates. To better understand how proteins flip DNA bases to modify or remove them, we optimized and developed a pipeline of methods to step-by-step detect the process starting with protein-DNA interaction, base flipping itself and the ensuing DNA base modification or excision. As methylcytosine is the best-studied DNA modification, here we focus on the process of writing, modifying and reading this DNA base. Using multicolor electrophoretic mobility shift assays, we show that the methylcytosine modifier Tet1 exhibits little DNA sequence specificity with only a slight preference for methylated CpG containing DNA. A combination of chloroacetaldehyde treatment and high-resolution melting temperature analysis allowed us to detect base flipping induced by the methylcytosine modifier Tet1 as well as the methylcytosine writer M.HpaII. Finally, we show that high-resolution melting temperature analysis can be used to detect the activity of glycosylases, methyltransferases and dioxigenases on DNA substrates. Taken together, this DNA base flipping analytical pipeline (BaFAP) provide a complete toolbox for the fast and sensitive analysis of proteins that bind, flip and modify or excise DNA bases.
To date, several methods are used to detect DNA base flipping, including X-ray crystallography [2] and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy [20] . Although X-ray crystallography provides the absolute proof of DNA base flipping, it is very demanding and time-consuming and depends on sophisticated equipment. The above makes it also not the method of choice to analyze the effect of mutations. The 2-aminopurine (2AP), an analog of the base adenine, has been used to detect base flipping in real time [21] . The fluorescence signal of 2AP is highly quenched when it is incorporated into DNA and located inside of the DNA helix. Conformational changes (bending/kinking) of the DNA increase 2AP fluorescence; however, the highest fluorescence intensities were observed when 2AP is flipped out of the DNA helix [22] . Moreover, several chemicals that react with flipped DNA bases have been identified. The resulting reaction products can be subsequently visualized by piperidine-induced strand cleavage and electrophoresis on denaturing gels [23] [24] [25] . Chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), for instance, reacts with the unpaired bases A and C to form 1,N 6 -ethenoadenine and 3,N 4 -ethenocytosine, respectively [26] . In combination with piperidine treatment, several Dnmts and endonucleases were successfully verified to use a base flipping mechanism to modify DNA bases [24] . Although M.HpaII belongs to the DNA methyltransferase family, several studies failed to detect that it induces base flipping [24] , indicating that the current detection methods do not provide sufficient sensitivity and require optimization.
Abstract A suite of 34 disinfection by-products (DBPs), including eight halomethanes, nine haloacetic acids, six haloacetonitriles, six haloaldehydes, four haloketones and the halonitromethane chloropicrin, were monitored in two microfiltration (MF) and reverse osmosis (RO) treatment plants as part of a larger study of chemical removal by MF/RO treatment for water recycling purposes. Both DBP detection frequency and concentration increased during treatment, and this was attributed to a chloramination step used to minimize RO membrane fouling. The degree of DBP formation was particularly related to plant residence time, with DBPs falling into two distinct groups; the first group in which DBP concentration increased with increasing residence time (e.g. chloroform and bromochloroacetaldehyde) and a second group in which increased residence time did not affect the concentration (e.g. dichloroacetic acid and 1,1-dichloropropanone). These results indicate that MF/RO plant design and wastewater quality are both important factors in minimizing DBP formation within MF/RO treatment. RO rejection was influenced by several chemical-specific properties, including pKa, log Kow and DBP class. Rejection of haloacetic acids, present as charged molecules, was consistently better than 90% and did not alter with log Kow. For all other DBPs, present as neutral molecules, rejection was much more variable, and decreased with decreasing log Kow, although the effect of MW and log Kow on rejection could not be separated. The DBP formation described in this study lead to variable estimations of DBP removal by RO and thus it is recommended that DBPs are used as indicators of RO removal efficiency with caution, and only after DBP formation within RO treatment has been studied.
Abstract A study has been made of the metal-catalyzed exchange of silica OH groups of an indium-silica catalyst with deuterium gas at 25 °C. This catalytic reaction proceeds more slowly on ‘hydrogen-covered’ than on ‘bare’ indium, and does not proceed measurably on silica alone at this temperature. However, a considerable number of preadsorbed molecules have been found to promote this catalytic reaction; acetal-dehyde, chloral (1,1,1-trichloroacetaldehyde), and acetonitrile lead to an OH → OD reaction with a half life of less than 5 min. A few experiments indicate that chloral-promoted platinum-silica also leads to very rapid exchange.
The kinetics of the oxidation of aliphatic aldehydes, formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, n-butyraldehyde, and trichloroacetaldehyde by Peroxomonosulphate (PMS) was carried out in aqueous perchloric acid medium (0.1–1 M H+) at constant ionic strength of 1.2 M in the temperature range 10°–60°C. The reactions of all the aldehydes were found to obey a total second-order kinetics, first order each with respect to [Peroxomonosulphate] and [aldehyde]. Acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, and n-butyraldehyde exhibited acid catalysis with the concurrent occurrence of acid-independent reaction path conforming to the rate law ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: Formaldehyde was found to undergo oxidation only by acid-dependent path (kb = 0) and trichloroacetaldehyde exhibited only the acid-independent reaction path (ka = 0). The products of oxidation were found to be the respective carboxylic acids in each case. The stoichiometry of the reaction, [Peroxomonosulphate]:[Aldehyde] = 1:1, indicated the absence of carbonyl-assisted decomposition and self-decomposition of peroxomonosulphate. The kinetic and thermodynamic parameters evaluated pointed to the mechanism of a fast nucleophilic attack of the oxidant on the aldehyde followed by slow acid catalyzed and/or uncatalyzed decomposition of the intermediate to product. A sharp comparison is made with the corresponding reactions of the similar peroxides, S2O and H2PO.
Resting cell suspensions of the soil methylotroph Methylosinus trichosporium OB-3b rapidly metabolize vinyl chloride The half-life of the reaction, based on Cl release at pH 7 4, 0 1 in phosphate buffer with a cell density of 0 1 g/ml, is 0 61 h The path of metabolism is complicated but proceeds through the intermediacy of chloroethylene oxide Independent studies of the hydrolysis of this oxirane in water set its chemical half life at 3 9 min The products of its reaction with water are chloroacetaldehyde and hydroxyacetaldehyde They are produced in a ratio of 2 1, as judged by Cl release and 1H and 13C nuclear magnetic resonance analysis Incubations with vinyl chloride 1,2-13C and vinyl chloride 1,2 14C establish that the dominant metabolic pathway entails a quick reduction of chloroethylene oxide to ethylene oxide Ethylene oxide is then converted in sequence to ethylene glycol, hydroxyacetaldehyde, glycolic acid, and CO2 This process is competitive with the chemical hydrolysis of chloroethylene oxide Similarly, chloroacetaldehyde is con verted to chloroacetic acid The latter is only slowly metabolized by this organism, and it accumulates throughout incubation to a final yield of 10% It is concluded that the organism participates in the hydrolysis of both chloroethylene oxide and ethylene oxide
A novel synthesis for sphydrofuran 1 has been developed. Starting with achiral materials the chiral centers of the target molecule were introduced via enzymatic methods as well as via a diastereoselective Grignard reaction. Rabbit muscle aldolase (RAMA)-catalyzed aldol condesation of chloroacetaldehyde 3 with dihydroxyacetone phosphate (DHAP) 4 affords the C-5 skeleton of 5 which was transformed to sphydrofuran 1 and its analogue 10 via a Grignard addition of allylmagnesium bromide followed by a Wacker reaction.
Abstract Phenylpyruvate decarboxylase from Achromobacter eurydice was used to catalyse the asymmetric acyloin condensation of phenylpyruvate 1 with various aldehydes 2 to produce optically active acyloins PhCH 2 COCH(OH)R 3 . The specific activity of the phenylpyruvate decarboxylase enzyme was increased by a factor of 332 after its purification. The molecular weight of the purified enzyme was shown to be 150 kDa by gel filtration chromatography, while SDS gel electrophoresis showed two sub-units with molecular weights of 90 and 40 kDa. The acyloin condensation yield decreased with increasing chain length for straight chain aliphatic aldehydes from 76% for acetaldehyde to 24% for valeraldehyde. The e.e.s of the acyloin products were 87–98%. Low yields of acyloin products were obtained with chloroacetaldehyde (13%) and glycoaldehyde (16%). Indole-3-pyruvate was a substrate of the enzyme and provided acyloin condensation product 3-hydroxy-1-(3-indolyl)-2-butanone 5 with acetaldehyde in 19% yield, while benzoylformate was not a substrate for the enzyme.
Alkylation of DNA by acrolein and/or chloroacetaldehyde may result in the mutations that lead to the therapy-induced leukemia associated with cyclophosphamide (and ifosfamide) treatment. O 6 -(n-Propanalyl)guanine (O 6 -PAG) and O 6 -(ethanalyl)guanine (O 6 -EAG) were synthesized for use as authentic standards in investigations of DNA alkylation by acrolein and chloroacetaldehyde, respectively. Preparation of the O-methyl oximes of these aldehydes aided in confirming the structural assignments of O 6 -PAG and O 6 -EAG. HPLC was used to study the stability of O 6 -PAG under a variety of conditions. The decomposition of O 6 -PAG was attributed to an α,β-elimination reaction resulting in the formation of guanine and acrolein. In 0.1 M phosphate-DMSO (9:1), O 6 -PAG (1-10 mM) had a half-life of approximately 1 h (pH 7.4, 37 °C). In 0.05 M Tris-DMSO (9:1), the apparent half-life of O 6 -PAG (1-10 mM) was approximately 16 h (pH 7.4, 37 °C). The increased lifetime under the latter conditions was attributed to a reversible reaction between Tris and the aldehydic functionality of O 6 -PAG to give a more stable oxazolidine. Under conditions similar to those that would be used for hydrolysis of DNA [0.1 M HCl-DMSO (98:2), pH 1.3, 70 °C, 30 min], there was an estimated 10-35% loss of O 6 -PAG. Under the same conditions, O 6 -EAG had apparent half-lives of 6.6 h (phosphate-DMSO) and 2.5 days (Tris-DMSO) and the estimated loss at pH 1.3 over 30 min (70 °C) was 15-20%. Ab initio quantum chemical calculations were used to understand the energy factors that underlie the occurrence of O- versus N-alkylations as well as possible, subsequent intramolecular cyclizations. Simulations of the free energies of reactions between acrolein and guanine indicated that N-alkylation was favored over O 6 -alkylation and that cyclizations to tautomers were most favorable if they involved the N-1 or NH 2 positions.
Fluorescence depolarization was used to measure the rate of renaturation of T2 DNA, which had been modified by chloroacetaldehyde. Rates were measured on DNA samples with 5–15% of the base pairs modified and were found to agree with rates determined by DNA absorbance kinetics at 260 nm. The renaturation rate of a modified T2 DNA was unchanged in the presence of a ninefold abundance of unlabeled calf thymus DNA.
A suite of 34 disinfection by-products (DBPs), including 8 halomethanes, 9 haloacetic acids, 6 haloacetonitriles, 6 haloaldehydes, 4 haloketones and the halonitromethane chloropicrin, were monitored in two microfiltration (MF) and reverse osmosis (RO) treatment plants as part of a larger study of chemical removal by MF/RO treatment for water recycling purposes. Both DBP detection frequency and concentration increased during treatment, and this was attributed to a chloramination step used to minimize RO membrane fouling. The degree of DBP formation was particularly related to plant residence time, with DBPs falling into two distinct groups; the first group in which DBP concentration increased with increasing residence time (e.g. chloroform and bromochloroacetaldehyde) and a second group in which increased residence time did not affect the concentration (e.g. dichloroacetic acid and 1,1-dichloropropanone). These results indicate that MF/RO plant design and wastewater quality are both important factors in minimising DBP formation within MF/RO treatment. RO rejection was influenced by several chemical-specific 2 properties, including pKa, log Kow and DBP class. Rejection of haloacetic acids, present as charged molecules, was consistently better than 90% and did not alter with log Kow. For all other DBPs, present as neutral molecules, rejection was much more variable, and decreased with decreasing log Kow, although the effect of MW and log Kow on rejection could not be separated.
The metabolism of 2-(13)C-chloroacetaldehyde at doses of 1.5, 2, 3 and 4 mg/kg b.w. and that of 2-(13)C-chloroacetaldehyde at a dose of 5.9 mg/kg b.w. were studied in the isolated perfused rabbit heart model using carbon-13 nuclear magnetic resonance. We have shown that, whereas chloroacetaldehyde is cardiotoxic at doses above 2 mg/kg b.w., this toxic effect is not accompanied by an increase in intramyocardial citrate levels. Chloroacetate, its main metabolite, is not cardiotoxic. The metabolism of chloroacetaldehyde is complex and leads, in addition to chloroethanol, glycolic acid, conjugates of glutathione with chloroacetate or chloroethanol (and/or their metabolites, S-(2-carboxymethyl) cysteine, N-acetyl-S-(2-carboxymethyl) cysteine, S-(2-hydroxymethyl)cysteine) and thiodiglycolic acid. Low amounts of chloroacetate are metabolized by isolated perfused rabbit hearts into glycolic acid and glutathione conjugate (and/or its metabolites, S-(2-carboxymethyl) cysteine, N-acetyl-S-(2-carboxymethyl)cysteine). The present results suggest the need to evaluate further the role that chloroacetaldehyde may play in the cardiotoxic effects of ifosfamide and cyclophosphamide.
The principal means for microbial degradation of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) is through the biphenyl pathway. Although molecular aspects of the regulation of the biphenyl pathway have been studied, information on environmental facets such as the effect of alternative carbon sources on (polychlorinated) biphenyl degradation is limited. Here we explore the effect of environmental conditions (e.g., carbon source and growth phase) on the variation in PCB degradation profiles of Burkholderia xenovorans LB400. Genome-wide expression patterns reveal 25 genes commonly up-regulated during PCB degradation and growth on biphenyl to be upregulated in the transition to stationary phase (relative to growth on succinate) including two putative detoxification pathways. Quantitative reverse transcription PCR (Q-RT-PCR) analysis of the upper biphenyl pathway (bphA, bphD, and bphR1), and detoxification genes in response to environmental conditions suggest associated regulation of the biphenyl pathway and chloroacetaldehyde dehydrogenase. The response of genes in the upper biphenyl pathway to carbon source competition and growth phase reveals inhibition of the biphenyl pathway by PCBs. Although PCBs are not degraded during growth on succinate with PCBs, expression data indicate that the biphenyl pathway is induced, suggesting that post-transcriptional regulation or active transport of biphenyl maybe limiting PCB degradation. Identification of the involvement of peripheral pathways in degradation of PCBs is crucial to understanding PCB degradation in an environmental context as bacteria capable of biodegradation experience a range of carbon sources and growth phases.
Chlorination of 2-thiophenesulfonamide gave unstable N,N-dichloro-2-thiophenesulfonamide which was brought into reactions with 1,2-polyhaloethenes. The condensation of 2-thiophenesulfonamide with trichloroacetaldehyde afforded N-(2,2,2-trichloro-1-hydroxyethyl)-2-thiophenesulfonamide which reacted with benzene, toluene, 2-chlorothiophene, and phenol to form the corresponding N-(1-aryl-2,2,2-trichloroethyl)-2-thiophenesulfonamides. Under more severe conditions, the latter were converted into 1,1-diaryl-2,2,2-trichloroethanes. The reaction of N-(2,2,2-trichloro-1-hydroxyethyl)-2-thiophenesulfonamide with substituted arenes, including phenol, was regioselective: only the corresponding para-substituted products were obtained. Hydrolysis of N-[2,2,2-trichloro-1-(4-tolyl)ethyl]-2-thiophenesulfonamide yielded N-(2-thienylsulfonyl)-2-(4-tolyl)glycine.
Abstract A specific and sensitive gas chromatographic method for the quantitative determination of chloral hydrate and its metabolites trichloroethanol, trichloroethanol glucuronide and trichloroacetic acid in blood and urine is described. Use is made of the relative volatility of trichloroacetaldehyde, trichloroethanol and trichloroacetic acid methyl ester, which offers the possibility of head-space analysis. A known volume of the head-space gas, in equilibrium with its liquid phase (blood or urine), is directly injected into the gas chromatograph, which is equipped with an electron capture detector. Samples are divided in two portions: 1.0 ml for the determination of unconjugated trichloroethanol and 2.0 ml+1.0 ml of concentrated sulphuric acid for the determination of chloral hydrate, trichloroethanol (conjugated+unconjugated) and trichloroacetic acid after esterification with dimethyl sulphate. Detection limits for chloral hydrate and trichloroethanol are 0.5 μg/ml in blood or urine and for trichloroacetic acid 0.1 μg/ml. Some preliminary pharmacokinetic studies on chloral hydrate and its metabolites in dogs and humans are reported.
Mutants of Escherichia coli resistant to chloroethanol or to chloroacetaldehyde were selected. Such mutants were found to lack the fermentative coenzyme A (CoA) linked acetaldehyde dehydrogenase activity. Most also lacked the associated fermentative enzyme alcohol dehydrogenase. Both types of mutants, those lacking acetaldehyde dehydrogenase alone or lacking both enzymes, mapped close to the regulatory adhC gene at 27 min on the E. coli genetic map. The previously described acd mutants which lack acetaldehyde dehydrogenase and which map at 63 min were shown to be pleiotropic, affecting respiration and growth on a variety of substrates. It therefore seems likely that the structural genes for both the acetaldehyde and alcohol dehydrogenases lie in the adhCE operon. This interpretation was confirmed by the isolation of temperature sensitive chloracetaldehyde-resistant mutants, some of which produced thermolabile acetaldehyde dehydrogenase and alcohol dehydrogenase and were also found to map at the adh locus. Reversion analysis indicated that mutants lacking one or both enzymes carried single mutations. The gene order in the adh region was determined by three point crosses to be trp - zch:: Tn10 - adh - galU- bglY - tyrT - chlC.
By the use of samarium diiodide (SmI2), a cross-coupling reaction of aldehydes with α-diketones smoothly proceeds in the presence of water to give the corresponding adducts in moderate to good yield. In this reaction, it is possible to use the substrates such as phenylglyoxal monohydrate, aqueous methylglyoxal, formalin, and aqueous α-chloroacetaldehyde.
Polyamines such as spermidine (Spd) and spermine (Spm), produced by aminopropyltransferase (Apt), play roles in cell growth and differentiation. A sensitive and simple fluorometric high-performance liquid chromatographic determination for Apt activity of spermidine synthase (Spdsyn) and spermine synthase (Spmsyn) was developed in order to examine cellular functions of polyamine synthesis. The derivatization procedure for methylthioadenosine (MTA) produced from decarboxylated S-adenosylmethionine by Apt was the reaction with 2-chloroacetaldehyde to give fluorescent 1, N(6)-etheno methylthioadenosine. The reaction conditions for derivatization were optimized. A calibration curve was established, ranging from 0.01 to 25 pmol. Quantification of derivatized MTA was confirmed to be identical to Spd or Spm production. The developed method determined Spdsyn and Spmsyn activities in HepG2 cells treated with oleic acid as a cellular lipid accumulation model.
Ifosfamide is a well known prodrug for cancer treatment with cytochrome P450 metabolism. It is associated with both antitumor activity and toxicities. Isophosphoramide mustard is the bisalkylating active metabolite, and acrolein is a urotoxic side product. Because acrolein toxicity is limited by coadministration of sodium mercaptoethanesulfonate, the incidence of urotoxicity has been lowered. Current evidence suggests that chloroacetaldehyde, a side-chain oxidation metabolite, is responsible for neurotoxicity and nephrotoxicity. The aim of our research is to prevent chloroacetaldehyde formation using new enantioselectively synthesized ifosfamide analogs, i.e., C7,C9-dimethyl-ifosfamide. We hypothesize that reduced toxicogenic catabolism may induce less toxicity without changing anticancer activity. Metabolite determinations of the dimethyl-ifosfamide analogs were performed using liquid chromatography and tandem mass spectrometry after in vitro biotransformation by drug-induced rat liver microsomes and human microsomes expressing the main CYP3A4 and minor CYP2B6 enzymes. Both human and rat microsomes incubations produced the same N -deschloroalkylated and 4-hydroxylated metabolites. A coculture assay of 9L rat glioblastoma cells and rat microsomes was performed to evaluate their cytotoxicity. Finally, a mechanistic study using 31P NMR kinetics allowed estimating the alkylating activity of the modified mustards. The results showed that C7,C9-dimethyl-ifosfamide exhibited increased activities, although they were still metabolized through the same N -deschloroalkylation pathway. Analogs were 4 to 6 times more cytotoxic than ifosfamide on 9L cells, and the generated dimethylated mustards were 28 times faster alkylating agents than ifosfamide mustards. Among these new ifosfamide analogs, the 7 S ,9 R -enantiomer will be assessed for further in vivo investigations for its anticancer activity and its toxicological profile.
Eight fluorine-containing compounds, seven of which are derivatives of bromal or dichloroacetaldehyde, were synthesized and their physical constants determined. These compounds have been screened for anticancer, antispasmodic, tranquilizing, and blood pressure effects. Acute toxicity studies have also been carried out.
Polyamines such as spermidine (Spd) and spermine (Spm), produced by aminopropyltransferase (Apt), play roles in cell growth and differentiation. A sensitive and simple fluorometric high-performance liquid chromatographic determination for Apt activity of spermidine synthase (Spdsyn) and spermine synthase (Spmsyn) was developed in order to examine cellular functions of polyamine synthesis. The derivatization procedure for methylthioadenosine (MTA) produced from decarboxylated S-adenosylmethionine by Apt was the reaction with 2-chloroacetaldehyde to give fluorescent 1, N 6 -etheno methylthioadenosine. The reaction conditions for derivatization were optimized. A calibration curve was established, ranging from 0.01 to 25 pmol. Quantification of derivatized MTA was confirmed to be identical to Spd or Spm production. The developed method determined Spdsyn and Spmsyn activities in HepG2 cells treated with oleic acid as a cellular lipid accumulation model.
Several assays for Apt activity have been reported. These use radioisotope (RI), 10 high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), 11, 12 homogeneous time-resolved fluorescence 13 or mass spectrometry 14 methods. The RI method with 35 S-dcSAM as a substrate for Apt activity measurement needs preparation of 35 S-dcSAM by enzymatic reaction with S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) synthase, ATP, radio isotope-labeled methionine and SAM decarboxylase, followed by manual column chromatographic purification because dcSAM is not commercially available. Fluorescent HPLC determination for Spd or Spm contents produced by Spdsyn or Spmsyn, respectively, is commonly carried out by derivatization such as precolumn dansylation or postcolumn o-phthalaldehyde reaction with amines. 15 These methods measure the incremental increase of Spd or Spm produced by cellular Spdsyn or Spmsyn activity over that already present in the extract. Since high levels of polyamines exist endogenously in organisms, such assays need large amounts of tissues, longer enzymatic reaction time or dialysis to remove endogenous polyamines. Here, precolumn derivatization of MTA, which is another product of Apt which is present in much lower endogenous amount because of its metabolism, has been chosen for the assay because it is fully sensitive and convenient and easy to handle. An adenine analog of MTA was determined by etheno-derivatization with chloroor bromo-acetaldehyde, 16, 17 indicating that an adenine analogue of the MTA produced by Spdsyn or Spmsyn could be also etheno-derivatized to be fluorescent. In this report, cellular Spdsyn and Spmsyn activitiy assay methods were developed by using etheno-derivatization with chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) (Fig. 1) . The developed method determined Spdsyn and Spmsyn activities in HepG2 cells treated with oleic acid as a cellular lipid accumulation model 18 in order to examine the relationship between lipid accumulation and polyamine synthesis.
Ifosfamide is a well known prodrug for cancer treatment with cytochrome P450 metabolism. It is associated with both antitumor activity and toxicities. Isophosphoramide mustard is the bisalkylating active metabolite, and acrolein is a urotoxic side product. Because acrolein toxicity is limited by coadministration of sodium mercaptoethanesulfonate, the incidence of urotoxicity has been lowered. Current evidence suggests that chloroacetaldehyde, a side-chain oxidation metabolite, is responsible for neurotoxicity and nephrotoxicity. The aim of our research is to prevent chloroacetaldehyde formation using new enantioselectively synthesized ifosfamide analogs, i.e., C7,C9-dimethyl-ifosfamide. We hypothesize that reduced toxicogenic catabolism may induce less toxicity without changing anticancer activity. Metabolite determinations of the dimethyl-ifosfamide analogs were performed using liquid chromatography and tandem mass spectrometry after in vitro biotransformation by drug-induced rat liver microsomes and human microsomes expressing the main CYP3A4 and minor CYP2B6 enzymes. Both human and rat microsomes incubations produced the same N-deschloroalkylated and 4-hydroxylated metabolites. A coculture assay of 9L rat glioblastoma cells and rat microsomes was performed to evaluate their cytotoxicity. Finally, a mechanistic study using 31 P NMR kinetics allowed estimating the alkylating activity of the modified mustards. The results showed that C7,C9-dimethyl-ifosfamide exhibited increased activities, although they were still metabolized through the same N-deschloroalkylation pathway. Analogs were 4 to 6 times more cytotoxic than ifosfamide on 9L cells, and the generated dimethylated mustards were 28 times faster alkylating agents than ifosfamide mustards. Among these new ifosfamide analogs, the 7S,9R-enantiomer will be assessed for further in vivo investigations for its anticancer activity and its toxicological profile.
Mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase 2 (ALDH2) metabolizes acetaldehyde produced from ethanol into acetate and plays a major role in the oxidation of acetaldehyde in vivo (Bosron and Li 1986) . A mutant allele, ALDH2*2, has a single point mutation (G fi A) in exon 12 of the active ALDH2*1 gene and is confined to Asians (Yoshida et al. 1984) . The mutation results in a substitution of glutamic acid 487 to lysine (E487 K), acting in a dominant negative fashion (Crabb et al. 1989 , Singh et al. 1989 , Xiao et al. 1996 . Individuals with the ALDH2*2 allele exhibit the alcohol-flushing syndrome attributable to an elevated blood acetaldehyde level (Goedde et al. 1979 , Crabb 1990 ). The ALDH2*2 allele has been also reported to affect the metabolism of other aldehydes such as benzaldehyde, which is a metabolite of toluene (Kawamoto et al. 1994) , and chloroacetaldehyde, which is generated during the metabolism of vinyl chloride (Farres et al. 1994 , Yokoyama et al. 1996 . In addition, ALDH2 deficiency was found to contribute to risks of hypertension (Takagi et al. 2001 , Amamoto et al. 2002 and myocardial infarction (Takagi et al. 2002) . However, the risks have been mainly argued through an association with alcohol consumption.
Abstract Vinyl chloride (VC) is a trans-species carcinogen, producing tumors in a variety of tissues, from both inhalation and oral exposures, across a number of species. In particular, exposure to VC has been associated with a rare tumor, liver angiosarcoma, in a large number of studies in mice, rats, and humans. The mode of action for the carcinogenicity of VC appears to be a relatively straightforward example of DNA adduct formation by a reactive metabolite, leading to mutation, mistranscription, and neoplasia. The objective of the present analysis was to investigate the comparative potency of a classic genotoxic carcinogen across species, by performing a quantitative comparison of the carcinogenic potency of VC using data from inhalation and oral rodent bioassays as well as from human epidemiological studies. A physiologically-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) model for VC was developed to support the target tissue dosimetry for the cancer risk assessment. Unlike previous models, the initial metabolism of VC was described as occurring via two saturable pathways, one representing low capacity-high affinity oxidation by CYP2E1 and the other (in the rodent) representing higher capacity-lower affinity oxidation by other isozymes of P450, producing in both cases chloroethylene oxide (CEO) and chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) as intermediate reactive products. Depletion of glutathione by reaction with CEO and CAA was also described. Animal-based risk estimates for human inhalation exposure to VC using total metabolism estimates from the PBPK model were consistent with risk estimates based on human epidemiological data, and were lower than those currently used in environmental decision-making by a factor of 80.
Abstract The enthalpy of reaction of the 2-chloroethylideneaminocarbamic acid ethylester formation from chloroacetaldehyde and hydrazinoformic acid ethylester in ethanol at the temperature of 298.15 K has been determined by a microcalorimeter. Experimental results gave the enthalpy of formation Δ r H m θ =(−16.07±0.079) kJ mol −1 , the reaction order of this reaction n =1; the rate constant k =1.190×10 −3 s −1 and the free energy of activation Δ G ≠ θ =89.718 kJ mol −1 . The result indicates that the reaction takes place easily at room temperature.
The reaction of diethylenetriamine with chloroacetaldehyde yielded a bicyclic aminal intermediate for the synthesis of 1,4,7-triazacyclononane (TACN), a macrocyclic polyamine the derivatives of which find applications as catalysts, bleaching agents, and chelators for medical imaging. This new synthetic protocol outperforms the synthetic methods described so far because it does not involve any cyclization step. Moreover, this aminal intermediate allowed access to a new family of TACN derivatives functionalized on the carbon skeleton, for example, C-aminomethyl-TACN. This novel compound is a precursor of valuable bifunctional chelating agents for nuclear medicine, in particular, for the preparation of PET imaging agents after bioconjugation and metallation with 68Ga or 64Cu.
Laser photolysis-resonance fluorescence at 298 K is used to obtain absolute rate constants for the gas-phase reactions of OH radicals with three trichloroacetaldehydes and acetaldehyde. The rate constants for all but trichloroacetaldehyde are in good agreement with previous literature with the discrepant one being lower by a factor of 2, which is possibly due to reactivity trend among chlorine substituted carbonyl compounds. 28 refs., 5 figs., 1 tab.
Renal injury is a common side effect of the chemotherapeutic agent ifosfamide. Current evidence suggests that the ifosfamide metabolite chloroacetaldehyde may contribute to this nephrotoxicity. The present study examined the effects of ifosfamide and chloroacetaldehyde on rabbit proximal renal tubule cells in primary culture. The ability of the uroprotectant medication sodium 2-mercaptoethanesulfonate (mesna) to prevent chloroacetaldehyde-induced renal cell injury was also assessed. Chloroacetaldehyde (12.5-150 microM) produced dose-dependent declines in neutral red dye uptake, ATP levels, glutathione content, and cell growth. Coadministration of mesna prevented chloroacetaldehyde toxicity while pretreatment of cells with the glutathione-depleting agent buthionine sulfoximine enhanced the toxicity of chloroacetaldehyde. Ifosfamide (1000-10,000 microM) toxicity was detected only at concentrations of 4000 microM or greater. Analysis of media collected from ifosfamide-treated cell cultures revealed the presence of several ifosfamide metabolites, demonstrating that renal proximal tubule cells are capable of biotransforming this chemotherapeutic agent. This primary renal cell culture system should prove useful in studying the cause and prevention of ifosfamide nephrotoxicity.
The binding of 1,1-dichloroethane (1,1-DCE) to the substrate binding site of hepatic microsomal cytochrome P-450, and the stimulation of hepatic microsomal CO-inhibitable NADPH oxidation by 1,1-DCE and 1,2-dichloroethane (1,2-DCE) were enhanced by induction with phenobarbital but not with beta-naphthoflavone. Incubation of the dichloroethanes with hepatic microsomes from phenobarbital-treated rats, NADPH-generating system and EDTA resulted in the conversion of 1,1-DCE to acetic acid and to a lesser extent to 2,2-dichloroethanol and probably also mono- and dichloroacetic acid and the conversion of 1,2-DCE to chloroacetaldehyde and to a lesser extent to chloroacetic acid and probably 2-chloroethanol. In addition, reaction mixtures constituted as described above resulted in slight but significant losses (ca. 13%) of hepatic microsomal cytochrome P-450. The omission of dichloroethane or the NADPH-generating system from incubation mixtures eliminated the above effects, and SKF-525A or CO diminished or eliminated the effects. Pathways for the metabolism of 1,1-DCE and 1,2-DCE are proposed.
Abstract Structural parameters for both the more stable s-cis (chlorine atom s-cis to the aldehyde hydrogen atom) and high energy s-trans conformers of chloroacetaldehyde, ClCH 2 CHO, have been obtained from ab initio Hartree-Fock gradient calculations employing the 3-21G ∗ and 6-31G ∗ basis sets with electron correlation. The results are compared to the r a values obtained for the s-cis rotamer from an electron diffraction study as well as with some r o values determined from some previously reported rotational constants for both the s-cis and s-trans conformers. Potential surface calculations have been carried out to determine the barrier to internal rotation and the conformational stability. At the 6-31G ∗ basis set level the s-cis to s-trans barrier is 1203 cm −1 (3.44 kcal mol −1 ) with the s-cis conformer being more stable by 509 cm −1 (1.46 kcal mol −1 ) than the s-trans form. There is a small “hump” of 12 cm −1 (34 cal mol −1 ) at the s-cis position which is below the first torsional energy level for this conformer. Infrared band contour simulation of the carbon-chlorine stretching mode for fluoroacetyl chloride predicts an s-trans to gauche equilibrium which is inconsistent with the ab initio results where the high energy conformer is predicted to have the s-cis structure. All of these results are compared with the corresponding data for some similar molecules.
Depending upon reaction conditions, 2-mercaptobenzimidazole (I) treated with α-chloroacetaldehyde dimethylacetal under acidic or with ethylene dichloride under alkaline conditions undergo cyclization (V and VIII). Thioethers (IX and XI) are treated with acetic anhydride in pyridine to yield 2-alkyl-3-oxothiazolidino [3, 2-α] benzimidazoles (X) and p-substituted 3-phenylthiazolo [3, 2-α] benzimidazoles (XII).
In mono-layered primary cell cultures baseline AMP and ADP levels are found nominally in the mid to low picomolar range and are thus difficult to measure with conventional HPLC methods that often require the pooling of samples or require indirect detection methods using radiotracers or enzyme coupled assays. To address this issue, we developed a highly sensitive and selective ion-pairing HPLC method with fluorescence detection to quantify adenine nucleotides and the adenylate energy charge in primary astrocyte cell cultures. To accomplish this, we optimized the fluorescence derivatization conditions and the HPLC parameters to achieve baseline separation and quantification of all adenine nucleotides. Nucleotides were converted to their respective 1, N(6)-etheno derivatives by incubating with chloroacetaldehyde at pH 4.5 and 60°C for 60 min. Under these conditions, the loss of the adenine nucleotides due to hydrolysis was minimized with a derivatization yield of 94.1% for 1, N(6)-ethenoadenosine. The optimal concentration of tetrabutylammonium phosphate, the ion-pairing reagent, required to achieve a reproducible separation of the adenine nucleotides was found to be 0.8mM. Calibration curves of nucleotide standards were linear within the range of 0.16-10.4 pmol for adenosine, 0.16-20.6 pmol for AMP, 0.15-19.2 pmol for ADP, and 0.15-19.5 pmol for ATP. The limits of detection and quantification for all adenine nucleotides were approximately 0.08 and 0.16 pmol, respectively. The intra- and inter-day variability for this method was less than 5.1 and 3.4%, respectively. This method was successfully used to measure all adenine nucleotides and an adenylate energy charge of 0.92±0.02 in primary astrocyte cell cultures.
Degradation products of diazinon and dichlorvos, organophosphorus pesticides, were investigated, and their degradation time-courses were also examined. The degradation of both compounds was carried out under the condition of static state in aqueous solution and hydrochloric acid solution (pH 2.0) at 37°C. By gas chromatography (GC), peaks of diazinon and dichlorvos were not observed in sample solutions after about 20 d. Degradation products of diazinon, and dichlorvos were identified to be 2-isopropyl-4-methyl-6-hydroxypyrimidine and dichloroacetaldehyde by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS), respectively. These degradation products were determined by thin layer chromatography, GC and (GC-MS).
The results of allowing tetrahydro-as-triazine-3(2H)-thiones to react with various α,β-diiunctional compounds, such as, α-bromoethyl p-toluenesulfonate, chloroacetaldehyde, α-bromophenylacet-uldehyde, phenaeyl bromide, chloroacetonitrile, α-bromophenylaeelonitrile, and α-cyanobenzyl p-toluenesulfonate are discussed. These condensations give either a 5H-thiazolo[3,2-b]-as-triazine or a 2H-thiazolo[2,3-c]-as-triazine.
Published results and work from this laboratory permit the characterization of the possible promutagenic lesions induced by chloroethylene oxide (CEO) and chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), both known as bifunctional alkylating metabolites of vinyl chloride (VC). The mutagenic effectiveness of CEO and CAA in Escherichia coli, when compared to their nucleophilic selectivity, suggests that the critical target site in DNA bases is not an oxygen atom, and/or that the reaction mechanism of CEO and CAA is different from a simple alkylation. CEO-mutagenicity in E. coli is recA-independent, and CEO preferentially induces GC----AT transitions; accordingly, the mutagenicity of CEO in bacteria may result mainly from a miscoding guanosine or cytosine adduct. Two observations argue against the role of 1,N6-ethenoadenine (epsilon A) and 3,N4-ethenocytosine (epsilon C) in VC-induced mutagenesis/carcinogenesis: i) the lack of detection in double-stranded DNA in vivo and in vitro; ii) the inconsistency between mutational specificity of CEO and miscoding properties of epsilon A and epsilon C. The lack of miscoding properties of 7-(2-oxoethyl)guanine (oxet-G), the major in-vivo VC-DNA adduct, suggests a minor miscoding base adduct. Several lines of evidence point to N4-(2-chlorovinyl)cytosine as one possible putative promutagenic lesion produced by VC, but this compound has yet to be identified in DNA.
Vinyl chloride monomer (VCM) is a colorless gas used in the plastic industry for manufacturing polyvinyl chloride. VCM is mutagenic and carcinogenic, being associated with the development of liver angiosarcoma, hepatocellular carcinoma, and cholangiocarcinoma in humans. The metabolites of VCM chloroethylene oxide and chloroacetaldehyde react with all four bases in DNA by alkylation to form exocyclic etheno adducts. An adenine adduct, 1, N6-etheno adenine (eA), is specifically recognized and excised by N-methylpurine DNA glycosylase (MPG) leaving an abasic (AP) site that is subsequently recognized and cleaved by apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease (APE1), forming a nick in the DNA during Base Excision Repair (BER). Unrepaired eA results in A to T transversions, and these mutations are specifically found at hotspot codons in the p53 gene in liver angiosarcoma patients: codons 179, 249, and 255. We hypothesized that eA at these codons is excised less efficiently than at non-mutation hotspot codons due to differences in sequence context. We modified an existing real time PCR-based method to monitor BER in vivo, which utilizes a phagemid construct (M13mp18) containing a single eA placed in the p53 sequence. The phagemid is transfected into mammalian cells and retrieved at various time points post-transfection. The retrieved phagemid is treated with MPG and APE1 to convert any unrepaired eA to nicked DNA. The products are then analyzed by real time PCR utilizing primers that flank the damage site. Nicked DNA will be less amplifiable than intact DNA, which will indicate the amount of repair that occurred in the cell. We transfected HepG2 cells with phagemid constructs containing a single eA at the mutation hotspot codons 179, 249, and 255, as well as the non-mutagenic codon 246. We observed that 50% of eA placed at a non-mutagenic codon in the p53 gene (codon 246) is repaired in less than 5 hours post-transfection, while 50% of eA placed at the hotspot codons (codons 179, 249, or 255) is repaired in more than 16 hours. The in vivo results were confirmed in vitro utilizing purified MPG and oligonucleotide substrates containing eA in the sequence context of the non-hotspot and hotspot codons. We observed a 2.5 fold decrease in product formation by MPG when eA is placed at codon 249 compared to codon 246. We observed a 1.5 fold decrease in product formation by MPG when eA is placed at codon 179 or 255 compared to codon 246. These results indicate that sequence context affects the excision activity of MPG which suggests a potential mechanism for the presence of mutation hotspots in p53 (supported by RO1 CA92306 grant from NCI/NIH). Citation Format: Jordan Woodrick, Suhani Gupta, Sanchita Sarangi, Sanjay Adhikari, Rabindra Roy. Sequence-specific repair of etheno-adenine at mutation hotspots in p53. [abstract]. In: Proceedings of the 104th Annual Meeting of the American Association for Cancer Research; 2013 Apr 6-10; Washington, DC. Philadelphia (PA): AACR; Cancer Res 2013;73(8 Suppl):Abstract nr 1282. doi:10.1158/1538-7445.AM2013-1282
Two human carcinogens that have been extensively studied are vinyl chloride and benzene. The active metabolites used in this study are chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) and para-benzoquinone (pBQ). Each forms exocyclic adducts between the N1 and N6 of A, the N3 and N4 of C and the N1 and N2 of G. Only CAA has been found to form the N2,3 adduct of G. CAA and pBQ adducts differ structurally in size and in the number of added rings, pBQ adding two rings to the base, while etheno bases have a single five-membered ring. The mechanism of repair of these two types of adducts by human enzymes has been studied in our laboratory with defined oligodeoxynucleotides and a site-specific adduct. The etheno derivatives are repaired by DNA glycosylase activity; two mammalian glycosylases are responsible: alkylpurine-DNA-N-glycosylase (APNG) and mismatch-specific thymine-DNA glycosylase. The former repairs 1,N6-ethenoA (epsilon A) as rapidly as the original substrate, 3-methyladenine, while the latter repairs 3,N4-ethenoC (epsilon C) more efficiently than the G/T mismatch. Our finding that there are separate enzymes for epsilon A and epsilon C has been confirmed by the use of tissue extracts from an APNG knockout mouse. As pBQ is much less efficient than CAA in modifying bases, the biochemical studies required total synthesis of the nucleosides. Furthermore, the pBQ adduct-containing oligomers are cleaved, to various extents by a different class of enzyme: human and bacterial N-5'-alkylpurine (AP) endonucleases. The enzyme incises such oligomers 5' to the adduct and generates 3'-hydroxyl and 5'-phosphoryl termini but leaves the modified base on the 5'-terminus of the 3' cleavage fragment ('dangling base'). Using active-site mutants of the human AP endonuclease, we found that the active site for the primary substrate, abasic (AP) site, is the same as that for the bulky pBQ adducts. There appears to be no clear rationale for the widely differing recognition and repair mechanisms for these exocyclic adducts, as shown for the repair of the same types of modification on different bases (e.g. epsilon A and epsilon C) and for completely unrelated lesions (e.g. AP site and pBQ adducts). Another important variable that affects the rate and extent of repair is the effect of neighbouring bases. In the case of epsilon A, this sequence-dependent repair correlates with the extent of double-strandedness of the substrate, as demonstrated by thermal stability studies.
A series of new 2-[(arylsulfonyl)imino]-2,3-dihydrothiazolyl derivatives substituted on the heterocyclic N by a phenoxyacetic moiety was prepared according to a Hantzsch's synthesis between N, N' -disubstituted thioureas and chloroacetaldehyde. The regiochemistry of the cyclocondensation reaction was established by high resolution NMR methods. Potential thromboxane A 2 /prostaglandin H 2 (TxA 2 /PGH 2 ) receptor antagonism was evaluated using human platelet aggregation assays and radioligand binding studies. The results showed that the affinity for the TxA 2 /PGH 2 receptor was strongly dependent on the position of the oxyacetic acid side chain. On the basis of the X-ray crystal analysis of compound 9f , a molecular modelling was undertaken on compounds 3d , 3e , and 3f . Comparison with the 3D structure of sulotroban was discussed.
Abstract A one-pot synthesis of isoxindigos 4 is described via o -specific alkylation of dichloroaluminum phenolates 2 with trichloroacetaldehyde and subsequent basic alumina-promoted thermal conversion of 2-(2,2,2-trichloro-1-hydroxyethyl)phenol intermediates 3.
This paper provides a novel method for preparation of 2,3-dichlorobenzoic acid.The cheap available starting material,O-chloroaniline,reacted with trichloroacetaldehyde monohydrate and hydroxylamine hydrochloride to produe N-(2-chlorophenyl)-2-(hydroxyimino) acetamide;which was treated with concentrated sulfuric acid to obtained 3-chlorolisatin,then 3-chlorolisatin was oxidized by hydrogen peroxide to afford 2-amino-3-chlorobenzoic acid.Through other four steps,such as esterification,diazotization,Sandmeyer-chloronati-on and hydrolysis,the target compound 2,3-dichlorobenzoicacid was obtained in overall yield of 49% with 3-chlorolisatin as intermediate.It is an important chemical for the synthesis of Lamotrigine.The structure of the target compound was identified by IR 1 H NMR,13C NMR.
Chlorinated hydrocarbons belong to the most frequently encountered contaminants in soil and groundwater. Many of them were found to be toxic and recalcitrant, which causes a potential threat to the environment. Therefore, it is of great importance that sites contaminated with chlorinated hydrocarbons are remediated. In this thesis we focus on anaerobic microbial oxidation of low-chlorinated hydrocarbons. These low-chlorinated hydrocarbons can enter soil and groundwater by direct release or by partial dechlorination of higher chlorinated hydrocarbons. Their fate strongly depends on microbial processes in soil and groundwater systems. Since many contaminated aquifers contain large volumes that are dominated by anaerobic processes it is apparent that anaerobic microorganisms play an important role in the degradation of contaminants. The tendency of low-chlorinated hydrocarbons to undergo oxidative dehalogenation increases when the number of chlorine substituents decreases. Whether low-chlorinated hydrocarbons are more likely to be degraded by oxidation than by reduction processes under anoxic conditions depends primarily on environmental conditions (e.g. redox conditions, availability of electron acceptors/donors, present microorganisms). The potential for anaerobic oxidation of different pollutants was studied by performing both up-flow soil columns and batch experiments, inoculated with contaminated soil and supplied with a mixture of different (chlorinated) hydrocarbons. They were operated in the absence of oxygen under nitrate-, iron( III)- or manganese(IV)-reducing conditions or in the absence of an externally supplied electron acceptor. It was found that 1 ,2 -dichloroethane (DCA), 2-chloroethanol (CE), vinyl chloride (VC), monochlorobenzene (MCB) and octane could be removed in the absence of oxygen. From a enrichment culture that showed DCA degradation with nitrate as sole electron acceptor, Pseudomonas stutzeri stain JJ was isolated. This bacterium is the first isolate known that can grow anaerobically with CE as sole carbon and energy source and nitrate as electron acceptor. Strain JJ was however not able to grow on DCA. The degradation pathway of CE under denitrifying conditions by strain JJ seems to be the same as found in aerobic bacteria that degrade CE . According to this pathway, CE is first oxidized to chloroacetaldehyde, then chloroacetaldehyde is oxidized to chloroacetate and subsequently chloroacetate is dehalogenated to glycolate, which enters the central metabolic pathways. MCB removal was studied in a nitrate-reducing up-flow soil column. Different observations and calculations suggests that MCB was oxidized in the absence of oxygen with nitrate as electron acceptor. These results underline the potential importance of anaerobic oxidation processes for the clean-up of sites polluted with low-chlorinated hydrocarbons as pointed out by others. Anaerobic oxidation pathways can be of particular importance when plumes contaminated with chlorinated compounds spread from reduced (e.g. methanogenic, sulfate-reducing) to more oxidized (e.g. iron-reducing and denitrifying) redox zones. These redox situations frequently occur at polluted sites in Western Europe.
The title compounds 2-phenylsulfonylhydrazono-3-(3-trifluoromethylphenyl)-2(3H)-thiazoline derivatives were designed and synthesized via the reaction of thiosemicarbazides with chloroacetaldehyde, and their chemical structures were characterized by 1H NMR, 13 C NMR, elemental analysis and MS. Furthermore, 4a was characterized by single-crystal X-ray diffraction. The target compound 4a(C16H12F3N3O2S2, Mr = 399.41) crystallized in monoclinic system, P21/c space group with a = 7.7457(4), b = 13.5850(7), c = 16.5455(10) , β = 99.698(2)°, V = 1656.30(16) 3, Dc = 1.602 g/cm3, Z = 4, F(000) = 816, λ = 0.71070, μ(Mo Kα) = 0.370 mm-1, R = 0.072 and w R = 0.0867. The crystal structure of 4a revealed the cyclization of thiosemicarbazide moiety with chloroacetaldehyde at the N(1) position. The title compounds exhibited good insecticidal activity against spider mite(Tetranychus cinnabarinus Boisduval) and favorable fungicidal activity against Corynespora cassiicola.
PURPOSE ::: O6-benzylguanine (BG) is a unique purine analog that has been shown to influence nitrogen mustard activity and increase cytotoxicity. Ifosfamide is a nitrogen mustard with growing clinical applications; effective modulation may lead to improved efficacy. We thus undertook a preliminary investigation of BG's effects on ifosfamide and ifosfamide derivatives in vitro. ::: ::: ::: EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN ::: BG's effect on ifosfamide toxicity was studied in CHO cells transfected with O6-alkylguanine-DNA alkyltransferase (AGT) (CHOwtAGT) or control plasmid pcDNA3 (CHOpcDNA) using five ifosfamide derivatives and two control compounds: 4-hydroperoxyifosfamide (4HI), isophosphoramide mustard (IPM), phenylketoifosfamide (PKIF), 4-hydroperoxydidechloroifosfamide (4HDI), chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), didechloroisophosphoramide mustard (d-IPM), didechlorophenylketoifosfamide (d-PKIF). To further explore the mechanism of interaction, BG's effect on apoptosis (annexin V-FITC) and cell cycle distribution in cells exposed to ifosfamide was also analyzed. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: BG substantially enhanced cytotoxicity induced only by agents that produce IPM (4HI, IPM, PKIF) in both CHOwtAGT and CHOpcDNA cell lines. BG did not modulate 4HDI or CAA cytotoxicity. The addition of BG to IPM in CHO cells increased the percentage of apoptotic cells from 5.5% to 28.9% at 72 h after treatment. Cell cycle analysis showed that BG exposure was associated with G1 arrest. At 16 h following treatment with IPM, PKIF, or phosphoramide mustard (PM), BG increased the percentage of cells in G1 from 16-20% to 29-64%. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: BG's ability to increase 4HI-, IPM-, and PKIF-mediated cytotoxicity in cells devoid of AGT activity suggests a novel AGT-independent mode of action that is associated with increased apoptosis and may involve G1 arrest. BG selectively enhanced IPM toxicity without enhancement of acrolein and CAA toxicity. The data strongly support further investigation into combinations of BG and nitrogen mustards.
The oxazaphosphorine agent cyclophosphamide (CP) is an alkylating agent with a relative low stem cell toxicity. The aim of this study was to further evaluate the stem cell toxicity of the active metabolites of CP and its structural analogue ifosfamide (IFO) in comparison to their antileukemic efficacy. Cells of different malignant hematologic disorders (HL-60, HS-Sultan and THP-1) and CD34+ stem cells were treated with cytotoxic CP-metabolite mafosfamide (MAFO) and IFO-metabolites 4-hydroxy-IFO (4-OH-IFO) and chloroacetaldehyde. The clonogenity of the cells was investigated by using a colony-forming assay. All metabolites reduced the formation of both tumor-derived colonies and stem cell-derived CFU-GMs in a concentration-dependent manner. Our data showed a relative tumor-specific, stem cell protecting action of the substances tested with a higher toxicity against tumor cells (IC(50) against HS-Sultan: MAFO 1.1 microM; 4-OH-IFO 1.3 microM; CAA 3 microM) than against stem cells (IC(50) MAFO 14.8 microM; 4-OH-IFO 16.9 microM; CAA 14 microM). However, while the cytotoxic action of 4-OH-IFO corresponded to MAFOs activity, CAAs cytotoxic effect against the hematologic tumor cells was lower. In conclusion, the results confirm the observed cytotoxicity of CAA against solid tumors for cells of malignant hematologic disorders. Although the relative cytotoxic specificity of CAA is lower than for 4-OH-IFO and MAFO, also CAA, like 4-OH-IFO and MAFO, was found to be in part a tumoricidal, stem cell protecting substance.
We previously reported our finding that human cells contain glycosylase activity toward all four etheno bases formed in DNA by chloroacetaldehyde and related bi-functional aldehydes. By enzyme purification, including FPLC, we isolated two separate glycosylase activities for 1,N 6 -ethenoadenine (EA) and for 3,N 4 -ethenocytosine (EC) respectively, from crude HeLa cell-free extracts, which also contained a number of well-described glycosylases. When Mono-S FPLC purified proteins were assayed against defined oligomers containing either EA or EC, it was found that EA and EC glycosylases were completely separated. It could also be demonstrated that each enzyme bound to and cut only eA- or eC-containing oligomers respectively. There was no overlap in specificity for these two substrates. Several other human glycosylase substrates were also tested and none were cleaved by EC glycosylase. The EC glycosylase activity identified in the present study apparently represents a previously unknown glycosylase. This work also suggests that enzyme recognition of closely related DNA adducts may depend upon subtle changes in local conformation.
A new laser-induced fluorescence spectrum has been observed in the region 320-360 nm. Since this spectrum is observed when reacting oxygen atoms with chlorinated ethylenes such as CH2CHCl, CH2CCl2, CHClCHCl, and CHClCHF and also when chlorine atoms react with chloroacetaldehyde, the fluorescing molecules are identified as cisand trans-2 chlorovinoxy radicals (cisand trans-CHClCHO). From an analysis of the laserinduced single vibronic level fluorescence, some of the vibrational frequencies can be assigned for the ground electronic state (X 2A′′): ν3(CO str) ) 1567, ν4(CH rock.) ) 1380, ν5(CH rock.) ) 1309, ν6(CC str) ) 1060, ν7(CCl str) ) 820, ν8(CCO bend.) ) 677, and ν9(CCCl bend.) ) 220 cm-1 for cis-CHClCHO; ν3 ) 1581, ν4 ) 1379, ν5 ) 1267, ν6 ) 1145, ν7 ) 942, ν8 ) 472, and ν9 ) 324 cm-1 for trans-CHClCHO. Some of the vibrational frequencies for the excited B2A′′ state also are assigned. These vibrational assignments are supported by ab initio calculations. The calculated geometries of the cisand trans-CHClCHO radicals are planar in the ground state and slightly nonplanar in the excited state. Radiative lifetimes of the excited cisand trans-CHClCHO radicals are also reported. The experimental results showed that the C-C-O skeleton and spectroscopic character of the cisand trans-CHClCHO are closer to those of CH2CHO than to those of CH2CFO. The mechanisms of the O + halogenated ethylene reactions are discussed.
Abstract The products of the chlorine atom initiated oxidation of different unsaturated alcohols were determined at atmospheric pressure and ambient temperature, in a 400 L teflon reaction chamber using GC–FID and GC–MS for the analysis. The major products detected (with molar yields in brackets) are: chloroacetaldehyde (50 ± 8%) and acrolein (27 ± 2%) from allyl alcohol; acetaldehyde (77 ± 11%), chloroacetaldehyde (75 ± 18%), and methyl vinyl ketone (17 ± 2%) from 3-buten-2-ol; acetone (55 ± 4%) and chloroacetaldehyde (59 ± 8%) from 2-methyl-3-buten-2-ol; chloroacetone (18 ± 1%) and methacrolein (8 ± 1%) from 2-methyl-2-propen-1-ol; acetaldehyde (20 ± 1%), crotonaldehyde (6 ± 3%), 3-choloro-4-hydroxy-2-butanone (2 ± 2%) and 2-chloro-propanal (4 ± 5%) from crotyl alcohol; and acetone (24 ± 3%) from 3-methyl-2-buten-1-ol. The experimental data suggests that addition of Cl to the double bond of the unsaturated alcohol is the dominant reaction pathway compared to the H-abstraction channel.
Ifosfamide (IFO) undergoes metabolic activation by hydroxylation of the ring system to exert cytotoxic activity. A second metabolic pathway produces the cytostatically inactive metabolites 2-dechloroethylifosfamide (2-DIFO) and 3-dechloroethylifosfamide (3-D-IFO) releasing chloroacetaldehyde. This pathway of side-chain metabolism has been discussed as a source of CNS and renal toxicity. As regards neurotoxicity, the incidence seems to be strongly schedule dependent. We compared the urinary excretion of 2-DIFO and 3-D-IFO on short-term and continuous ifosfamide infusion (3000 mg/m2) and, in addition, schedules with dosages ranging from 400 mg to 3 g/m2. Urine was sampled for up to 72 h and investigated by gas chromatography; 46.5% ± 13.2% of the applied dose could be recovered in the urine (n = 26 patients). The main metabolite was IFO (22.5% ± 8.5%) followed by 3-DIFO (14.4% ± 4.2%), and 2-D-IFO (8.8% ± 3.4%). Neither the total amount formed nor the excretion kinetics of side-chain metabolites were found to be schedule dependent. Even with 1-h infusion, there was a lag of 3-6 h until excretion of side-chain metabolites set in. The excretion patterns of side-chain metabolites as well as unmetabolized IFO were nearly superimposable on short-term and on continuous infusion. We conclude that differences in toxicity and efficacy cannot be explained by an influence of the application time on the metabolic profile of IFO.
Abstract MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are associated with physiological and pathological processes. They are recognized as biomarkers for diseases diagnosis and treatment evaluation. Herein we propose a simple and cost-effective HPLC method for quantitative assay of target miRNAs with femtomolar sensitivity, single-base discrimination selectivity and low background. The assay is based on an innovative signal-on strategy. In this strategy, polyadenylation of poly(A) polymerase extends an all ‘A’ sequence at the end of target miRNA, and the substantially increased number of adenine bases are labeled with 2-Chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) to open a signal-on mode and realize a signal amplification. The linearly amplified fluorescence signal is separated from other inference signals and quantified by high performance liquid chromatography with fluorescence detection (HPLC-FD). Combining with affinity magnetic solid phase extraction (MSPE), the method is well suited for analysis of complex biological samples such as serum and cell lysate with nearly zero background fluorescence. Taking miRNA-21 as the model analyte, this absolute quantification method has a limit of detection of 200 fM and a linear calibration curve (R2 = 0.999) in the range from 2.00 pM to 1.00 nM. Using locked nucleic acid (LNA) modified probes rather than ssDNA probes, the assay selectivity is improved. Moreover, analysis of bovine serum and cell lysate samples by using the method is demonstrated. Intracellular content of miRNA-21 is found to be 0.0150 amol/cell in MCF-7 cells with an assay repeatability of 4.0% (RSD, n = 3). The present HPLC quantification of miRNA offers an accurate, reliable, and cost-effective means for quantitative assay of miRNAs occurring in biological samples. Also importantly, it eliminates the need for total RNA isolation for the analysis. It may be useful for more effective diagnosis of diseases and therapeutic evaluation.
The purpose of this work was to analyze at the nucleotide level the distortions induced by the binding of cis-diamminedichloroplatinum(II) (cis-DDP) to DNA by means of chemical probes. In order to test the chemical probes, experiments were first carried out on two platinated oligonucleotides. It has been verified by circular dichroism and gel electrophoresis that the binding of cis-DDP to an AG or to a GTG site within a double-stranded oligonucleotide distorts the double helix. The reactivity of the oligonucleotide platinated at the GTG site with chloroacetaldehyde, diethyl pyrocarbonate, and osmium tetraoxide, respectively, suggests a local denaturation of the double helix. The 5'G residue and the T residue within the adduct are no longer paired, while the 3'G residue is paired. The double helix is more distorted (but not denatured) at the 5' side of the adduct than at the 3' side. The reactivities of the chemical probes with six platinated DNA restriction fragments show that even at a relatively high level of platination only a few base pairs are unpaired but the double helix is largely distorted. No local denaturation has been detected at the GG sites separated from the nearest GG or AG sites by at least threemore » base pairs. The AG sites separated from the nearest AG or GG sites by at least three base pairs do not denature the double helix locally when they are in the sequences puAG/pyTC. It is suggested that the distortion within these sequences is induced by adducts located further away along the DNA fragments, these sequences not being the major sites for the binding of cis-DDP.« less
The far infrared spectrum [350 to 25 cm−1] of gaseous chloroacetaldehyde, ClCH2CHO, has been recorded at a resolution of 0.10 cm−1. The first excited-state transition of the asymmetric torsion of the more stable near s-cis [chlorine atom s-cis to the aldehyde hydrogen atom] conformer has been observed at 26.9 cm−1, with seven additional upper state transitions falling to higher frequency. Additionally, the fundamental torsional transition of the s-trans conformer has been observed at 58.9 cm−1 with two excited states also falling to higher frequency. From these data, the asymmetric torsional potential coefficients have been determined to be:V1=414±11;V2 = 191±3;V3=−203±5;V4=44±1 andV6=−26±1 cm−1. The s-cis to s-trans barrier is 500±5 cm−1 (1.43±0.01 kcal mol−1) with the s-cis conformer being more stable by 267±19 cm−1 (0.76±0.05 kcal mol−1) than the s-trans form. The Raman [4000 to 100 cm−1] and infrared (4000 to 400 cm−1] spectra of the gas have been recorded. Additionally, the Raman spectrum of the liquid has been recorded and qualitative depolarization values obtained. Complete vibrational assignments are proposed for both conformers based on band contours, depolarization values, and group frequencies. The assignments are supported by ab initio Hartree-Fock gradient calculations employing the 3–21G* basis set to obtain the frequencies and the potential energy distributions for the normal vibrations for both rotamers. Additional ab initio calculations at the MP4/6-31G* level have been carried out to determine the structural parameters for both conformers. The results are discussed and compared with the corresponding quantities obtained for some similar molecules.
Objective To study relative position and chemical quatity of functiono structural area in medullary visceral zone of pyloric antrum in rats.Methods The rats were anaesthetized with trichloroacetaldehyde demonhydrate (300μg/kg).Pour the HRP into subserosa layer and muscle layer of pyloric autrum.The animals were alive for 48 hours after operation and then anaesthetized and instilled once again.The pyloric antrum was taken out and mede into frozen slices which were treated by retrograde tracing and immunocytochemistry double labeling.The neurons with the signs HRP/VIP(vasoactive intestinal polypeptide),HRP/ENK(enkephalin) and HRP/CGRP (calcilonin generelated peptide) double labeing structurs were respectively observed in medullary visceral zone.Results Both HRP labled fiber and HRP/VIP,HRP/ENK,HRP/CGRP double labeled cells were observed in the lateral side of the medial nucleus of intermediary and caudal segment of nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS).In these regions the cell body of neurons were mostly shaping in fusiform with the diameter of 40～60 μm.There were a few of larger multiporal neurons (80～100 μm in diameter) in caudal segment of NTS.Conclusion The lateral side of medial nucleus in caudal segment of NTS is the correspording fuctiono structural centrum of pyloric antrum,and the peptides such as ENK,VIP and CGRP etc.participate in its regulation.
The biodegradation of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) relies on the ability of aerobic microorganisms such as Burkholderia xenovorans sp. LB400 to tolerate two potential modes of toxicity presented by PCB degradation: passive toxicity, as hydrophobic PCBs potentially disrupt membrane and protein function, and degradation-dependent toxicity from intermediates of incomplete degradation. We monitored the physiological characteristics and genome-wide expression patterns of LB400 in response to the presence of Aroclor 1242 (500 ppm) under low expression of the structural biphenyl pathway (succinate and benzoate growth) and under induction by biphenyl. We found no inhibition of growth or change in fatty acid profile due to PCBs under nondegrading conditions. Moreover, we observed no differential gene expression due to PCBs themselves. However, PCBs did have a slight effect on the biosurface area of LB400 cells and caused slight membrane separation. Upon activation of the biphenyl pathway, we found growth inhibition from PCBs beginning after exponential-phase growth suggestive of the accumulation of toxic compounds. Genome-wide expression profiling revealed 47 differentially expressed genes (0.56% of all genes) under these conditions. The biphenyl and catechol pathways were induced as expected, but the quinoprotein methanol metabolic pathway and a putative chloroacetaldehyde dehydrogenase were also highly expressed. As the latter protein is essential to conversion of toxic metabolites in dichloroethane degradation, it may play a similar role in the degradation of chlorinated aliphatic compounds resulting from PCB degradation.
Chlorination of paraldehyde gave chloroacetaldehydes which were treated with concd sulfuric acid to afford cyclic trimer (3) of chloroacetaldehyde (CA). Depolymerization of 3 yielded pure CA satisfactory
A method has been developed for the synthesis of (3,5,6-trichloro-1,4-benzoquinone-2-yl)chloroacetaldehyde by the oxidative ring opening of 2,5-dihydroxy-3,4,6,7-tetrachlorocoumaran with nitrogen oxides. The ion-radical salt of (3,5,6-trichloro-1,4-benzoquinone-2-yl)chloroacetaldehyde with N,N,N′,N′-tetramethyl-p-phenylenediamine (1∶1) has been synthesized. The reaction of 2,5-dihydroxy-3,4,6,7-tetrachlorocoumaran-3-yl) with pyridine gave N-(2,5-dihydroxy-4,6,7-trichlorocoumaran-3-yl)pyridine chloride, which is also formed from the opening of the coumaran ring.
Chloroacetaldehyde, a rearranged metabolic product of the human carcinogen vinyl chloride, reacts with the DNA-like polymers poly(dA-dT) and poly(dC-dG) to form etheno-adducts of the adenine and cytosine bases. These treated polymers, when used as templates for E. coli DNA polymerase I in an in vitro assay, show a decreased ability to direct DNA synthesis. At the same time, increased relative levels of non-complementary nucleotides are incorporated. With the poly(dA-dT) templates 1 dGMP residue is incorporated for every approx 60 ethenoadenine residues present whilst no increased misincorporation of dCMP was detected. With the poly(dC-dG) templates 1 misincorporation of dAMP or dTMP occurred in the presence of approx 30 and 80 ethenocytosine residues respectively. A nearest neighbour analysis shows that with the modified poly(dC-dG) templates the majority of the errors were incorporated opposite cytosine (or modified cytosine) bases.
The copolymerization of chloral and dichloroacetaldehyde (DCA) has been studied with the use of organometallic compounds as initiators. The alkylzincs were the most effective catalysts, giving good conversions to copolymers of apparently high molecular weight. The polymerizations were best carried out at temperatures below −40°C. at an initiator concentration of at least 0.4 mmole/mole of monomers. The copolymerization proceeds to high conversions in toluene as the solvent, but the presence of small amounts of either n-heptane or tetrahydrofuran greatly decreases the yield. This, coupled with the fact that little polymerization occurs at DCA concentrations above 70 mole-%, leads to the proposal of a propagation reaction mechanism involving the coordination of the monomeric aldehydes with a cyclic zinc alkoxide dimer. Monomer reactivity ratios with chloral as M1 and DCA as M2 were r1 = 1.50 and r2 = 0.65. The copolymer is stiff and inelastic with a tensile strength of ca. 6000 psi.
Chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) is formed in the body from the chemotherapeutically used drug ifosfamide (IFO). CAA leads to cell death in proximal tubule cells mainly through the mechanism of necrosis rather than apoptosis. During chemotherapy, 2-mercaptosulfonic acid (mesna) is used with IFO to protect the urothel from cell damage. Little is known of the effect of mesna on renal proximal tubule cells, the primary site of damage after IFO treatment. Mesna contains a sulfhydryl (SH) group. To clarify whether SH-group-containing molecules can prevent CAA-induced cell death, we studied the effect of mesna and cysteine on necrosis, apoptosis, and protein content in a human proximal tubule-derived cell line (IHKE cells) treated with CAA. Both substances prevented CAA-induced necrotic cell death and protein loss and restored CAA-inhibited caspase-3 activity. CAA also prevented cisplatin-induced apoptosis. This inhibition was reversible in the presence of glutathione (GSH). We conclude that SH-containing molecules can protect proximal tubule cells from cell death because they interact with CAA before CAA can disturb other important cellular SH groups. A sufficient supply of intra- and extracellular SH groups during IFO chemotherapy may therefore have the ability to protect renal tubule cells from cell death.
The reaction of 7-amino[1,2,3] triazolo[4,5-d]pyrimidine (1a) with chloroacetaldehyde gave imidazo[1,2-c][1,2,3]triazolo[4,5-e]pyrimidine (2a) which underwent facile ring opening in dilute hydrochloric acid. The methyl derivatives (2b,c,d) were similarly made from the appropriate triazolopyrimidine (1b,c,d) and chloroacetaldehyde.
2,6-Dialkyl-5-methylene-1,3-dioxan-4-ones were prepared in good diastereomeric excess by treating pantolactone acrylate with a series of selected aldehydes in the Baylis-Hillman reaction. With benzaldehyde and trichloroacetaldehyde, non-cyclic products resulted. In the case of the latter aldehyde the α1-hydroxyalkyl acrylate 5b was isolated as a single diastereomer and its absolute configuration established by X-ray crystallography.
We used crossed laser-molecular beam scattering to study the primary photodissociation channels of chloroacetaldehyde (CH2ClCHO) at 157 nm. In addition to the C-Cl bond fission primary photodissociation channel, the data evidence two other photodissociation channels: HCl photoelimination and C-C bond fission. This is the first direct evidence of the C-C bond fission channel in chloroacetaldehyde, and we found that it significantly competes with the C-Cl bond fission channel. We determined the total primary photodissociation branching fractions for C-Cl fission:HCl elimination:C-C fission to be 0.65:0.07:0.28. The branching between the primary channels suggests the presence of interesting excited state dynamics in chloroacetaldehyde. Some of the vinoxy radicals from C-Cl photofission and most of the ketene cofragments formed in HCl photoelimination have enough internal energy to undergo secondary dissociation. While our previous velocity map imaging study on the photodissociation of chloroacetaldehyde at 157 nm focused on the barrier for the unimolecular dissociation of vinoxy to H + ketene, this work shows that the HCl elimination channel contributed to the high kinetic energy portion of the m/z = 42 signal in that study.
The induction by some cross-linking agents of forward mutations leading to nalidixic acid resistance in Escherichia coli K12/343/113 was considerably enhanced when a 24-h period of liquid holding was interpolated between treatment and growth phase. Liquid holding increased the mutagenic effectiveness of nor-nitrogen mustard (NNM) 28-fold, of phosphoramide mustard (PAM) 10-fold, and of tris-ethyleneimino)-phosphineoxide (TEPA), tris(chloroethyl)amine (TCEA) and chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) 3-fold, over the complete concentration range. By contrast, the activities of cisplatin (CDDP), transplatin (TDDP) and chloracetamide-N-metholol (CAM) were slightly decreased after liquid holding. Liquid holding did not measurably influence the mutagenicity of formaldehyde at low concentrations, whereas at higher concentrations an 8-fold increase was observed. As opposed to the considerable activity in the Uvr+ strain, formaldehyde was found not to be mutagenically active in an E. coli strain carrying a deletion of the uvrB gene.
Furano-1,2-naphthoquinone (FNQ), prepared from 2-hydroxy-1,4-naphthoquinone and chloroacetaldehyde in an efficient one-pot reaction, exhibits an anti-carcinogenic effect. FNQ exerted anti-proliferative activity with the G(2)/M cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in A549 cells. FNQ-induced G(2)/M arrest was correlated with a marked decrease in the expression levels of cyclin A and cyclin B, and their activating partner cyclin-dependent kinases (Cdk) 1 and 2 with concomitant induction of p53, p21, and p27. FNQ-induced apoptosis was accompanied with Bax up-regulation and the down-regulation of Bcl-2, X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis (XIAP), and survivin, resulting in cytochrome c release and sequential activation of caspase-9 and caspase-3. Western blot analysis revealed that FNQ suppressed EGFR phosphorylation and JAK2, STAT3, and STAT5 activation, but increased in activation of p38 MAPK and c-Jun NH2-terminal kinase (JNK) stress signal. The combined treatment of FNQ with AG1478 (a specific EGFR inhibitor) significantly enhanced the G(2)/M arrest and apoptosis, and also led to up-regulation in Bax, p53, p21, p27, release of mitochondrial cytochrome c, and down-regulation of Bcl-2, XIAP, survivin, cyclin A, cyclin B, Cdk1, and Cdk2 in A549 cells. These findings suggest that FNQ-mediated cytotoxicity of A549 cell related with the G(2)/M cell cycle arrest and apoptosis via inactivation of EGFR-mediated signaling pathway.
[203205-37-2] C15H30OSn (MW 345.11) ::: ::: InChI = 1S/3C4H9.C3H3O.Sn/c4*1-3-4-2;/h3*1,3-4H2,2H3;2H3; ::: ::: InChIKey = YSJYWUMTKCDPSN-UHFFFAOYSA-N ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: (reagent used as a nucleophilic component in metal-catalyzed cross-coupling reactions and as an electrophilic partner in Dotz reactions) ::: ::: ::: ::: Physical Data: colorless oil. ::: ::: ::: ::: Form Supplied in: not commercially available. ::: ::: ::: ::: Analysis of Reagent Purity: elemental analysis. ::: ::: ::: ::: Preparative Method: the reagent is prepared in a one-pot two-step procedure starting from 1,1-dimethoxy-2-chloroacetaldehyde.1 ::: ::: ::: ::: Purification: distilled by Kugelrohr. ::: ::: ::: ::: Handling, Storage, and Precautions: not reported.
A novel approach of periodate oxidation coupled with high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC)–fluorescence detection (FLD) for the quantitative determination of 3-chloro-1,2-propanediol (3-MCPD) has been established. The essence of this approach lies in the production of chloroacetaldehyde by the oxidization cleavage of 3-MCPD with sodium periodate and the HPLC analysis of chloroacetaldehyde monitored by an FLD detector after fluorescence derivatization with adenine. The experimental parameters relating to the efficiency of the derivative reaction such as concentration of adenine, chloroacetaldehyde reaction temperature, and time were studied. Under the optimized conditions, the proposed method can provide high sensitivity, good linearity (r2 = 0.999), and repeatability (percent relative standard deviations between 2.57% and 3.44%), the limits of detection and quantification were 0.36 and 1.20 ng/mL, respectively, and the recoveries obtained for water samples were in the range 93.39–97.39%. This meth...
The hydrogen abstraction reactions between chlorine-substituted acetaldehydes and OH radicals have been investigated by using ab initio molecular orbital theory. Equilibrium geometries and transition-state structures have been optimized at the (U)MP2/6-311G(d,p) level. Activation barriers and heats of reaction for different reaction channels have been estimated from the single-point calculations at the (U)MP2/6-311G(2df,2p) level. Three, two, and one hydrogen abstraction channel have been found for the mono-, di-, and trichloroacetaldehyde, respectively. At a higher temperature region, hydrogen abstraction from the formyl group is found to be the major reaction channel for all the three chloroacetaldehydes. The effect of halogen substitution on reactivity toward hydrogen abstraction has been discussed. © 2001 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. J Comput Chem 22: 1509–1521, 2001
Searching for a relationship between chemical reactivity and safener activity, we determined and compared the hydrolysis rate constants of differ ent acetals and ketals in kinetic studies as well as their safener effectiveness against EPTC (S-ethyl dipropylthiocarbam ate) injury to maize in growth room experiments. Fig. 1) were synthesized [12] in a con densation reaction of acetaldehyde, chloroacetaldehyde, dichloroacetaldehyde, trichloroacetaldehyde or benzaldehyde and m ethanol, ethanol or ethylene glycol using a trace of /?-toluenesulfonic acid (PTS) as catalyst: Ketals ( Fig. 1) were prepared from acetone, chloroacetone, dichloroacetone or acetophenone on the same manner. The equim olar quantities of the alcohol and the carbonyl com pound were refluxed in benzene until the theoretical quantity of water was removed by azeotropic distillation with the solvent (2 -2 0 h). To neutralize the reaction mix ture, it was washed with 5% sodium hydrogen car bonate solution and then the benzene extract was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The solvent was removed by vacuum evaporation, the residue was distilled either at atmospheric or under dim in ished pressure and the pure acetal or ketal was identified by elementary analysis.
A sensitive and selective assay method for adenine compounds (purines) using high-performance liquid chromatography with fluorescent detection was developed. The 1,N6-ethenoderivatives of adenine, adenosine, AMP, ADP, and ATP formed by reaction with chloroacetaldehyde at 80°C were separated by ion-pair reversed-phase chromatography within 15 min under isocratic conditions. α,β-Methylene adenosine 5′-diphosphate could be used as an internal standard for the determination of purines. The calibration graphs constructed with peak area ratios against amounts were linear between 0.1 and 10.0 pmol of each purine. The repeatability and intermediate precision were less than 6% (RSD,n= 5) and 8% (RSD,n= 3), respectively, at 0.5 pmol of each purine. A method for calculation of each purine amount which considers hydrolysis by derivatization is described. The optimized method was applied to determine the purines released from the rat caudal artery stimulated by noradrenaline.
Abstract The properties of an intramolecular triplex formed in vitro at the 5′-flanking region of the human γ-globin genes were studied by chemical and physical probes. Chemical modifications performed with osmium tetroxide, chloroacetaldehyde, and diethyl pyrocarbonate revealed the presence of non-paired nucleotides on the “coding strand” at positions −209 through −217. These reactivities were induced by negative supercoiling, low pH, and magnesium ions. Downstream point mutations associated with hereditary persistence of fetal hemoglobin (HPFH) altered the extent of the modifications and some of the patterns. Specifically, C−202 → G and C−202 → T significantly decreased the reactivities, whereas the patterns were increased and altered in the T−198 → C. C−196 → T and C−195 → G caused local decreases in reactivity. Modifications at the upstream flanking duplex were modulated by the composition of the vector sequence. In summary, our data indicates the formation of an intramolecular triplex between nucleotides −209 to −217 of the “non-coding strand” and the downstream sequence containing the HPFH mutations. All of the HPFH point mutations altered the structure. More than one sequence alignment is possible for each of the triplexes. In addition, a consequence of some of the point mutations may be to facilitate slippage of the third strand relative to the Watson-Crick duplex.
A sensitive and rapid method was developed for the determination of cAMP inLocusta migratoria manilensis Meyen by high-performance liquid chromatography withfluorescence detection. The cAMP was derivatized using chloroacetaldehyde and TBASbuffer/methanol was used as the mobile phase. A detection quantification of 40 fmol/mlcould be achieved when using fluorescence detection. An HPLC-MS method using DMHAas an ion-pair agent to analyze cAMP was also demonstrated. We studied the effect ofdopamine and other stimulants on cAMP levels from isolated locust central nervoussystems. The new method is well suited for the analysis of cAMP in small biologicalsamples.
Bromodichloroacetaldehyde was synthesized by two methods. The first synthesis started from chloral, which was allowed to react with Ph3P and the resultant compound brominated and hydrolyzed to give bromodichloroacetaldehyde in an overall yield of 60%. Purification by repeated distillation from P2O5 gave polymerization grade bromodichloroacetabldehyde. Bromodichloroacetaldehyde could also be synthesized by bromination of dichloroacetaldehyde diethyl acetal. The yields of this synthesis were only 20–30%, and the aldehyde could not be purified readily to give polymerization grade monomer. Bromodichloroacetaldehyde could be homopolymerized at −30°C with anionic and also some cationic initiators to a polymer which was insoluble and did not melt but degraded to monomer above 200°C. The ceiling temperature of the polymerization was −15°C in 1M solution. Bromodichloroacetaldehyde could also be copolymerized with isocyanates, primarily aryl isocyanates, and also with chloral.
Several methods for the preparation of imidazo[1,2-c]pyrimidines are presented. Compound 12 was prepared from 11 and chloroacetaldehyde in water using a buffer to control pH. Compound 12 was converted in two steps to 14, the etheno bridged analog of the coccidiostat 1. Several methods were used to prepare 8-phenylimidazo[1,2-c]pyrimidine (16). In terms of yield the best method was the reaction of the aminopyrimidine 15 with chloroacetaldehyde in acetone and in the presence of calcium carbonate as an acid scavenger. Reaction of the 4-chloro-pyrimidine 19 with aminoacetaldehyde diethyl acetal gave 16 directly in modest yield.
Exposure to 1,1-dichloroethylene (DCE) causes lung and liver toxicities in mice. The lesions are characterized by damage preferentially to bronchiolar Clara cells in the lung and necrosis of centrilobular hepatocytes in the liver. The primary metabolites formed from DCE in lung and liver microsomal incubations are the epoxide, 2,2-dichloroacetaldehyde and 2-chloroacetyl chloride, which undergo hydrolysis and/or conjugation with glutathione (GSH). The major products formed are the epoxide-derived GSH conjugates 2-(S-glutathionyl) acetyl glutathione [B] and 2-S-glutathionyl acetate [C]. The hydrate of 2,2-dichloroacetaldehyde (acetal) is also detected. These metabolites are detected in vivo in murine lung and liver cytosol and in bile, and importantly, also in human lung and liver microsomal incubations. Formation of the epoxide is mediated mainly by CYP2E1. Immunohistochemical studies localized the epoxide-derived GSH conjugate [C] and cysteine-containing proteins in Clara cells and centrilobular hepatocyt...
Ifosfamide is an alkylating agent which has poorly understood toxic side effects such as encephalopathy. We hypothesized that ifosfamide and concomitantly applied mesna could have an influence on the flow properties of blood, and thus carried out an in vitro study. Whole blood was incubated in vitro with increasing concentrations of ifosfamide (0-50 mg/ml), mesna (0-20 mg/ml) and combinations thereof. Chloroacetaldehyde, a major metabolite of ifosfamide, was also studied (0-5 mmol/l). Ifosfamide led to a dose-dependent stomatocytic shape transformation and mesna to an echinocytic shape transformation of erythrocytes. These shape changes were reversible upon removal of the causing agent. Both shape changes increased whole blood viscosity. Erythrocyte aggregation was decreased by both drugs at high concentration. Erythrocyte deformability, as measured with the transit time through 5-microm pores, was decreased by mesna and remained unaffected by ifosfamide. These effects were seen at concentrations which may be reached in vivo at the infusion site of the drugs into a vein and in the urinary tract. We conclude that ifosfamide and mesna interact with the lipid bilayer of the cell membrane, which may contribute to the toxicity of the compounds.
Metabolic activation of ifosfamide (IFO) leads to the active 4-hydroxy-metabolite and to a substantial liberation of chloroacetaldehyde (CAA). CAA has been presumed responsible for side effects of IFO. We recently have shown cytotoxic effects of CAA against human tumor cells in vitro. The aim of this study was to demonstrate antitumor effects of CAA in vivo, and to compare its potency to 4-OH-IFO. Pharmacokinetics of IFO and metabolites were evaluated after infusion of 250 mg/kg IFO in mice. The area under the curve (AUC) for 4-hydroxyifosfamide (4-OH-IFO) and CAA were 138.5 and 102.4 μmol · h/liter, respectively. To compare pharmacokinetics and antitumor effects, the mice received isolated infusion of 4-OH-IFO or CAA in equimolar doses to IFO. Administration of 4-OH-IFO yielded AUC values comparable with those obtained after administration of the parent drug. In contrast, infusion of isolated CAA via tail vein gave a low AUC value of 51.5 μmol · h/liter due to slow flow in the tail vein and rapid degradation. Administration of the parent drug gave highly cytotoxic intratumoral peak concentrations of 25 and 12 μmol/kg tumor weight for 4-OH-IFO and CAA in MX1 xenotransplanted nude mice. Both IFO and isolated 4-OH-IFO led to complete remissions. Administration of isolated CAA (75 mg/kg) delayed tumor growth significantly. The equitoxic dose of isolated 4-OH-IFO was 40 mg/kg. On a molar basis CAA was seven times less potent as 4-OH-IFO. However, on the basis of achieved AUC values, CAA seems to exhibit a similar antitumor activity to 4-OH-IFO.
Distribution system storage facilities are a critical, yet often overlooked, component of the urban water infrastructure. This study showed elevated concentrations of N-nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA), total N-nitrosamines (TONO), regulated trihalomethanes (THMs) and haloacetic acids (HAAs), 1,1-dichloropropanone (1,1-DCP), trichloroacetaldehyde (TCAL), haloacetonitriles (HANs), and haloacetamides (HAMs) in waters with ongoing nitrification as compared to non-nitrifying waters in storage facilities within five different chloraminated drinking water distribution systems. The concentrations of NDMA, TONO, HANs, and HAMs in the nitrifying waters further increased upon application of simulated distribution system chloramination. The addition of a nitrifying biofilm sample collected from a nitrifying facility to its non-nitrifying influent water led to increases in N-nitrosamine and halogenated DBP formation, suggesting the release of precursors from nitrifying biofilms. Periodic treatment of two nitrifying facilities with breakpoint chlorination (BPC) temporarily suppressed nitrification and reduced precursor levels for N-nitrosamines, HANs, and HAMs, as reflected by lower concentrations of these DBPs measured after re-establishment of a chloramine residual within the facilities than prior to the BPC treatment. However, BPC promoted the formation of halogenated DBPs while a free chlorine residual was maintained. Strategies that minimize application of free chlorine while preventing nitrification are needed to control DBP precursor release in storage facilities.
Abstract The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of stress and the role of locally infused anxiogenic-like neuropeptides galanin, CCK-8, vasopressin, substance P and neurokinin A, and anxiolytic-like peptides NPY, nociceptin/orphanin FQ, somatostatin and neurotensin, on modulation of noradrenaline (NA) and cAMP efflux monitored simultaneously by microdialysis in the medial prefronatal cortex of awake rats. Concentrations of cAMP were determined by a newly developed method based on derivatization of cAMP with 2-chloroacetaldehyde followed by HPLC with fluorescence detection. Local infusion of forskolin (10 and 30 μM) dose-dependently increased the cAMP levels to 417% and 1050% of the control group, respectively. Similarly, local infusion of NA (10 μM) increased the cAMP to the peak level of 168%. A 5-min tail pinch and a 10-min swim stress rapidly increased the NA and cAMP levels to 167% and 203% (NA) and 141% and 161% (cAMP), respectively. Infusion of galanin and CCK-8 (0.5 nmol, and 1.5 nmol/0.5 μl) dose-dependently increased NA to the peak levels of 191% and 179% and cAMP levels to 174% and 166%, respectively. The peak levels following infusions of vasopressin, substance P and neurokinin A were 91%, 135% and 86% for NA and 131%, 83% and 76% for cAMP, respectively. Infusions of anxiolytic-like peptides at highest concentrations significantly increased (NPY, 136%) or decreased (nociceptin, 71%; somatostatin, 86%) the NA levels, whereas neurotensin had no effect. The cAMP levels decreased to 86% (NPY, neurotensin), 78% (nociceptin), somatostatin infusion was without effect. The present findings confirmed a close correlation between the stress-induced increases in prefrontal cortical NA and cAMP levels, as well as, concurrent changes in NA and cAMP levels following infusions of galanin and CCK-8 (increased levels) and nociceptin/orphanin FQ (decreased levels). Infusions of other neuropeptides showed a more complex pattern of NA and cAMP responses.
A method for reducing 4-carboxybenzaldehyde (4- CBA) in the terephthalic acid production (TPA) or 3-carboxybenzaldehyde (3-CBA) in isophthalic acid production (IPA), comprising: (a) dissolving the crude TPA (or crude IPA) in a solvent at a temperature of 50 to 250 ° C to form a solution; (B) crystallizing purified acid from said solution by reducing the temperature and / or pressure; (C) separating said crystallized purified TPA and said solution; (D) adding an oxidant to CBA oxidizer to oxidize said filtered solution (c) causing 4-CBA or 3-CBA become TPA (or IPA); (E) evaporating the solvent from said solution (d); (F) cooling the concentrated solution (e) crystallizing purified TPA additional and filtering said suspension, and recycling the main part of the mother liquor from (f) to a dissolution unit in (a) and a minor portion of water mothers (f) to a purge stream, wherein said oxidant is selected from the group consisting of anhydrous hydrogen peroxide in organic solvents, air, enriched air, pure oxygen, hydrogen peroxide in water, ozone, carbon tetrachloride, trichloroacetaldehyde, hexamine, acetone, cyclohexane, benzophenone, cinnamaldehyde, dimethyl sulfoxide, sulfides, chiral oxidants, glyoxals, organic peroxy acids, such cocmo performic acid, peracetic acid, perbenzoic acid, perpropionic acid, permaleic acid, perphthalic acid and.
A simple, sensitive HPLC method using fluorescence detection was developed for determination of adenosine in fetal venous perfusates of dual-perfused cotyledons from human term placentas. Maternal and fetal circuits of in vitro placental cotyledons were perfused with physiological salt solution containing dextrose and dextran (Earle's medium). Conditions were established for optimal formation of fluorescent 1,N6-ethenoadenosine from adenosine and chloroacetaldehyde in Earle's medium and for optimal resolution of 1,N6-ethenoadenosine by reversed-phase HPLC of the reaction mixture. The yield of 1,N6-ethenoadenosine was enhanced by dilution and acidification of the sample matrix. Perfusate samples in autosampler vials were diluted 40% with water and reacted with chloroacetaldehyde for 40 min at 100 degrees C; replicate 100-microliters injections were made automatically from each reaction mixture for HPLC analysis with fluorescence detection on a column packed with 3 microns octadecylsilica (Hypersil). Calibration curves were prepared similarly from 4-100 nM adenosine in Earle's medium. Alternatively, perfusate samples were diluted twofold with dilute phosphoric acid to give a final pH of 5.4 before reaction with chloroacetaldehyde, and replicate 50-microliters injections were made automatically for HPLC; calibration curves were prepared from 2-400 nM adenosine in Earle's medium. 1,N6-Ethenoadenosine was well resolved from Earle's-derived artifactual peaks on chromatography with either a linear or a concave gradient of methanol in ammonium phosphate buffer. Total run times were 15 and 19 min, respectively. Sensitivity of measurement of adenosine was 2-4 nM. Derivatization of adenosine using the acidified reaction mixture gave a limit of detection of 100 fmol of adenosine per injection. Application of the method to analysis of adenosine in fetal venous perfusates of eight dual-perfused cotyledons, each from a different placenta, gave a range of 3.5-52 nM adenosine. Ischemia, imposed by cessation of maternal perfusion, caused a two- to sixfold increase in fetal venous perfusate adenosine concomitant with an increase in fetoplacental perfusion pressure; perfusion pressure and perfusate adenosine returned to baseline levels on reperfusion of the maternal circuit. This facile method of determination of perfusate adenosine should allow investigation of the role of placental adenosine release in regulation of fetoplacental vascular resistance and should be applicable to study of adenosine released by other isolated perfused organs.
9beta-D-2'-Deoxyribofuranosyl-imidazo-[2,1-i]purine ("etheno-deoxyadenosine") and 1beta-D-2'-deoxyribofuranosyl-1,2-dihydro-2-oxo-imidazo-[1,2-c]pyrimidine ("etheno-deoxycytidine") are identified in the enzyme hydrolysates obtained (i) from calf-thymus DNA which had been modified by chemical reaction with chloroacetaldehyde and (ii) from liver DNA prepared from rats which had been exposed orally to vinyl chloride in their drinking water (250 ppm) for approx. 2 years. Thus, vinyl chloride-derived chloroethylene oxide and/or chloroacetaldehyde behaves as a bifunctional alkylating agent towards deoxyadenosine and deoxycytidine residues of DNA. The separation of deoxyribonucleosides and the two etheno-deoxyribosyl-nucleosides by liquid chromatography, and the mass spectra of etheno-deoxyadenosine and etheno-deoxycytidine and of their O-bis-(trimethylsilyl) derivatives are described. In the animal experiment (ii), the resulting proportion of etheno-deoxyadenosine is small compared with that of etheno-deoxycytidine. Imidazo-[2,1-i]purine (etheno-adenine) is identified: (a) in the supernatant after sedimentation of the modified DNA in the model experiment (i), and (b) in the product resulting from the reaction between chloroacetaldehyde and deoxyadenosine. The effect on the structure of DNA of the imidazo-cyclization of deoxyadenosine and deoxycytidine residues and of the depurination of etheno-deoxyadenosine residues is discussed in relation to vinyl chloride oncogenicity.
Cyclophosphamide (CPA) and ifosfamide (IFO) belong to oxazaphosphorine drugs and for a few decades have been widely used for treatment of solid tumours and haematological malignancies. Both drugs are administered in pharmacologically inactive form and require metabolic activation by cytochrome P-450 (CYP). Metabolic transformations taking place under the action of specific CYP isoenzymes lead to the formation of therapeutically essential metabolites and some toxic compounds affecting quality of therapy. The first stage of these conversions is connected with hydroxylation reactions occurring on the C-4 carbon atom within a ring and C-1 atoms of 2-chloroethyl chains. As a result of C-4 hydroxylation 4-hydroxy derivatives (4-OH-CPA and 4-OH-IFO) are formed and remain in tautomeric equilibrium with aldo compounds which in cancer cells spontaneously release cytotoxic phosphoramide mustards and urotoxic acrolein. At the same time hydroxychloroethyl compounds formed during hydroxylation of side-chains are unstable and collapse with the release of inter alia nephro- and neurotoxic chloroacetaldehyde (CAA). Due to formation of toxic metabolites it is essential to use some preventive agents such as mesna and recently examined agmatine. Since CPA and IFO are widely used anticancer drugs, their efficacy is limited not only by their toxicity but also due to occurring resistance. This resistance seems to be a result of changes of expression and activity of enzymes such as CYP and aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) and increase of intracellular levels of glutathione (GSH) and glutathione S-transferase (GST). At present a few methods of overcoming this resistance are being examined including the use of metabolism modulators, antisense oligonucleotides selectively inhibiting gene expression, and introducing genes of some CYP isoenzymes to a cancer tissue.
The condensed products 2-10 of 4-amino-5-mercapto-3-(5-methylisoxazol-3-yl)-1,2,4-triazole (1) with chloroacetaldehyde, 2-bromocyclohexanone, chloranil, omega -bromo-omega-(1H-1, 2,4-triazol-1-yl)acetophenone, 2-bromo-4'-substituted acetophenones and 2-bromo-6'-methoxy-2'-acetonaphthone were described. The antibacterial activities were also evaluated.
Ifosfamide is a prodrug which is metabolised in vivo to produce a variety of active and potentially toxic metabolites ( Figure 1 ). The bioactivation is mediated by a cytochrome p450 enzyme (CYP3A4) and results in hydroxylation at the carbon-4 position of the oxazaphosphorine ring. This 4-hydroxy-ifosfamide (4-OH-IFO) is unstable and exists in equilibrium with its tautomeric form aldoifosfamide (aldo-IFO). Aldo-IFO decomposes spontaneously to form the alkylating agent isophosphoramide mustard (IPM) and acrolein. By its alkylating ability IPM is assumed to be the active metabolite of IFO. The by-product acrolein is believed to be responsible for the urotoxic effects of IFO [20] . Alternatively aldo-IFO can be oxidised by an aldehyde dehydrogenase enzyme (ALDH1) to carboxy-IFO (CX) which is an inactive metabolite. Approximately half of the dose of IFO undergoes oxidative N-dealkylation to produce either 2-or 3-dechloroethyl-IFO (2-DCI, 3-DCI respectively). An equimolar quantity of chloroacetaldehyde (CA) is formed in each of these reactions and this toxic metabolite has been implicated in the neurotoxicity which may accompany IFO-therapy [21] and may furthermore be associated with nephrotoxicity. Oxidation of 4-hydroxyifosfamide results in another inactive metabolite which is 4-keto-IFO (KETO). Pharmacokinetic and metabolism data are scarce for patients treated with high-dose IFO [22, 23] . Since IFO is a prodrug and needs to be activated in vivo, there may be saturation of metabolism which would preclude very high dose treatment with this agent. A similar saturation phenomenon has been noted with cyclophosphamide [24, 25] . We therefore examined the pharmacokinetics of IFO and its metabolites in patients with high-dose IFO/mesna, in combination with hematopoietic growth factors, where indicated, in this dose escalation study. Pharmacokinetic data for high-dose mesna and endogenous sulphydrils have been published elsewhere [26] .
Abstract: A sensitive and rapid method was developed for the determination of cAMP in Locusta migratoria manilensis Meyen by high-performance liquid chromatography with fluorescence detection. The cAMP was derivatized using chloroacetaldehyde and TBAS buffer/methanol was used as the mobile phase. A detection quantification of 40 fmol/ml could be achieved when using fluorescence detection. An HPLC-MS method using DMHA as an ion-pair agent to analyze cAMP was also demonstrated. We studied the effect of dopamine and other stimulants on cAMP levels from isolated locust central nervous systems. The new method is well suited for the analysis of cAMP in small biological samples.
The requisite substrate 9 was prepared from benzylamine according to the reported procedure 19, 36) as follows. The alkylation of benzylamine with a-chloroacetaldoxime ether 7, 42) prepared from chloroacetaldehyde 6 and O-methylhydroxylamine hydrochloride, gave the amide 8 which was acylated with acryloyl chloride to give the oxime ether 9 in 97% Relationship between a radical species and radical acceptors of three different types of double bond in radical addition-cyclization was systematically investigated. Substrates carrying a a,b b-unsaturated amide, isolated olefin, and oxime ether moieties underwent radical addition-cyclization to give differently substituted lactams depending upon the radicals used. The sulfanyl radical addition-cyclization of the substrate proceeded smoothly to give the 5-membered lactam having an alkoxyamino group as a result of preferable addition of an intermediary a a-carbonyl radical to the oxime ether. On the other hand, the triethylborane-mediated radical additioncyclization gave the lactam bearing an iodomethyl group as a result of addition to an intermediary a a-carbonyl radical to isolated olefin. The different regioselectivity was explained by the stability of the intermediary radical and the interaction between SOMO and HOMO.
Over the years, several methods were reported for the preparation of TFAc from TFAE: (i) H 3 PO 4 /polyphosphoric acid (PPA);9 (ii) P 2 O 5 ; 10 (iii) H 2 SO 4 .11 Other approaches involved the reduction of trifluoroacetic acid 7f or its esters12; fluorination of trichloroacetaldehyde;13 oxidation of trifluoroethanol;14 oxidative nitration of trifluoropropane;15 and reduction of trifluoroacetyl chloride.16 Most of these methods required high temperatures (~400 °C − 450 °C)17 and were carried out in the vapor phase. Considering the synthetic importance of TFAc, developing a low temperature, rapid, and easy to handle method is highly desirable.
Abstract The molecular structure of gaseous ( E )-chloroacetaldehyde oxime has been determined from electron diffraction data. The geometrical molecular parameters obtained, with estimated limits of error, are r g ( CCl ) = 1.799 ± 0.002 A , r g ( CC ) = 1.516 ± 0.007 A , r g ( CN ) = 1.287 ± 0.003 A , r g ( NO ) = 1.418 ± 0.005 A , ∠CCCl = 109.6 ± 0.4°, ∠CCN = 116.4 116.4 ± 0.7°, ∠CNO = 110.7 ± 0.5° and the torsional angle ф( NCCCl ) = 123.2 ± 1.4° . A least-squares analysis of the data have given the fraction of the E -isomer in the gas phase to be 66 ± 2% at 43°C.
The ability of environmental contaminant trichloroethylene to alter immune function and promote autoimmunity was tested in female MRL(+/+) mice. MRL(+/+) mice exposed to occupationally relevant doses of trichloroethylene in their drinking water for 32 weeks developed autoantibodies and pathological evidence of autoimmune hepatitis. The ability of trichloroethylene (TCE) to promote autoimmunity was associated with the expansion of activated (CD44(hi) CD62L(lo)) CD4(+) T-lymphocytes that produced increased levels of the pro-inflammatory cytokine interferon (IFN)-gamma. Activated T-lymphocytes can accumulate if activation-induced apoptosis is suppressed. Consequently, the effect of TCE on apoptosis in CD4(+) T-lymphocytes was investigated. These experiments were conducted with TCE and one of the major oxidative metabolites of trichloroethylene, namely trichloroacetaldehyde hydrate (TCAH). CD4(+) T-lymphocytes isolated from MRL(+/+) mice exposed to TCE or TCAH in their drinking water for 4 weeks were resistant to activation-induced apoptosis in vitro. The TCE-or TCAH-induced decrease in activation-induced apoptosis was associated with decreased expression of FasL, one of the cell surface molecules that mediate apoptosis. These results suggest that exposure to the common water contaminant TCE or its metabolite TCAH inhibits activation-induced apoptosis in CD4+ T-lymphocytes, thereby promoting autoimmune disease by suppressing the process that would otherwise delete activated self-reactive T-lymphocytes.
Abstract A method for the detection of small amounts of double stranded DNA by a simple incubation procedure involving the reaction of the nucleotide bases in DNA with chloroacetaldehyde is described. Following incubation, the presence of DNA may be visualized by the orange fluorescence emitted when ethidium bromide (EtBr) is added. Alternatively, the aldehyde/DNA mixture may be separated by agarose gel electrophoresis and individual double stranded DNA visualized by exposing the gel to ethidium bromide and observing the orange ultraviolet light induced fluorescence of the aldehyde modified double stranded ethidium bromide complex (Waring, M.J. (1965) J. Mol. Biol. 13, 269–282). At least a 20-fold increase in the detection of double stranded DNA is possible by this procedure. An important aspect of this method is that the visualization of single stranded DNA is not enhanced.
Structural distortions on the boundary between right-handed B and left-handed Z DNA segments in plasmid pRW751 (a derivative of pBR322 containing (dC-dG)13 and (dC-dG)16 segments) were studied by means of chemical probes. Samples of supercoiled DNA were treated with the respective chemical probe, linearized with EcoRI and inhibition of BamHI (whose recognition sequence GGATCC lies on the boundary between the (dC-dG)n segments and the pBR322 nucleotide sequence) cleavage was tested. Treatment with osmium tetroxide in the presence of pyridine or 2,2'-bipyridine, respectively, resulted in a strong inhibition of the BamHI cleavage at both restriction sites, provided the (dC-dG)n segments were in the left-handed form. In the presence of 2,2'-bipyridine submillimolar concentrations of OsO4 (at 26 degrees C) were sufficient to induce the inhibition of BamHI. Chloroacetaldehyde was used as a probe reacting selectively with atoms involved in the Watson-Crick hydrogen bonding. Similarly as in the case of osmium tetroxide treatment of pRW751 with this agent resulted in the inhibition of BamHI cleavage. It was concluded that the B-Z junction regions in pRW751 contain few solitary bases with disturbed hydrogen bonding or non-Watson-Crick base pairs.
Long-term exposure to the environmental contaminant trichloroethylene (TCE) in drinking water has been shown to promote autoimmune disease in association with the expansion of activated CD4+ T cells. The effects of TCE on CD4+ T cells were linked in the present study to the ability of TCE metabolite, trichloroacetaldehyde hydrate (TCAH), to inhibit activation-induced cell death (AICD) in CD4+ T cells. TCAH attenuated AICD in CD4+ T cells by decreasing FasL (CD178) expression but not by altering Fas (CD95) expression or by interfering with Fas-signaling events following direct engagement of the Fas receptor. The TCAH-induced decrease in FasL expression did not appear to be mediated at the transcriptional level but was instead due to increased shedding of FasL from the surface of the CD4+ T cells. The ability of TCAH to cleave FasL and thereby decrease AICD appeared to be mediated by metalloproteinases and correlated with a TCAH-induced increase in matrix metalloproteinase-7. Thus, this study presents the novel finding that the environmental contaminant TCE works via its metabolite TCAH to attenuate AICD by increasing metalloproteinase activity that cleaves FasL from CD4+ T cells. This represents a mechanism by which an environmental trigger inhibits AICD in CD4+ T cells and may thereby promote CD4+ T cell-mediated autoimmune disease.
Abstract Reaction between 4-(O-acetyl-β-D-glycopyranosylamino)-6-oxopyrimidines 1 and chloroacetaldehyde leads to the corresponding 7-glycopyranosyl-4-oxopyrrolo [2,3-d]pyrimidines 3 in moderate yields. The reaction of 1a yields also 4-glucopyranosylaminofuro[2,3-d] pyrimidine 2. The anticancer and antimicrobiological activities of these products are noticed.
Adenosine (ADO) has an antiadrenergic action in the heart that causes an attenuation of contractile and metabolic responses elicited by beta-adrenergic stimulation. The effect of an increase in oxygen consumption elicited by either beta-adrenergic stimulation or an increase in contraction frequency on interstitial fluid and coronary effluent ADO levels was investigated in isolated perfused isovolumically contracting rat hearts. ADO in left ventricular surface transudates and coronary effluents was rendered fluorescent with chloroacetaldehyde, and the formed ethenoadenosine derivative was quantitated with high-performance liquid chromatography fluorescence detection. Heart preparation integrity was verified by determining the activities of lactate dehydrogenase and ADO deaminase in the transudates. Isoproterenol (10(-8) M) elicited a 45% increase in oxygen consumption and a 54% increase in developed left ventricular pressure in hearts paced at 240 beats/min. With isoproterenol the control transudate ADO concentration (304 pmol/ml) increased 493%, and the control effluent ADO concentration (48 pmol/ml) increased 259%. Increasing the contraction frequency from 180 to 300 beats/min in the presence of 10(-6) M propranolol increased oxygen consumption by 45% and decreased left ventricular pressure by 29%. With the increase in contraction frequency, the transudate ADO concentration did not increase significantly. However, the ADO concentration in the effluent was an average of 269% greater in hearts contracting at the higher frequency. Increasing the contraction frequency of hearts treated with both 10(-6) M propranolol and 10(-5) M atropine also had no significant effect on the level of transudate ADO. The effluent level of ADO increased only 78%. Levels of ADO in transudates were not significantly affected by mesothelial cell metabolism. These results suggest that the beta-adrenergic stimulation the interstitial level of ADO in the heart increases to levels that are sufficient to manifest its antiadrenergic effects. Furthermore, there is not always a correlation between the levels of ADO found in the interstitial and effluent fluid compartments.
Abstract ::: 2-Thiouridine, 4-thiouridine and the corresponding thiouracils were quantitatively modified with aqueous chloroacetaldehyde /37 degrees C, pH 3.0--6.5/. The rate-pH dependence found for the disappearance of the substrates suggested initial S-alkylation. The unstable S-acetaldehydyl intermediates were not detected due to their further rapid transformations. The following possibilities of such transformations are discussed: 1. intramolecular addition of the endocyclic nitrogen atom to the aldehyde carbonyl group to form the "hydroxyethano" bridged compounds, 2. hydrolysis to the corresponding "oxo" analogues of the substrates, 3. hydrolysis of the N-glycoside bond. The structures of new compounds formed in these reactions were assigned on the basis of their FD-MS, UV, IR and PMR spectra. The reaction rates were similar to those found for modification of adenosine and cytidine with chloroacetaldehyde.
Different chemicals react with different bases and at different atoms on them, as discussed under “▶ Selectivity of Chemicals for DNA Damage.” In addition, damage is usually not random, and some selectivity is seen along the DNA depending upon neighboring effects. The selectivity varies for different types of damage and may or may not predict mutational spectra. Damage by hydroxyl radicals (OH•) is very nonselective because of the very short lifetime of the species (Fig. 1). Therefore, hydroxyl radicals can be used in “footprinting” for agents that generate OH•. Dimethyl sulfate has also been used as a footprinting agent because of its nonselective reactivity. Some of the larger, more complex drugs show considerable sequence selectivity (Fig. 1; Hurley et al 1988). Some compounds bind in the major groove of DNA and some in the minor. However, this difference does not have a pronounced effect on sequence selectivity in that the grooves are continuous in Β-DNA. However, certain compounds may target regions of DNA that adopt unusual forms. For example, chloroacetaldehyde has been reported to preferentially cross-link regions of Z-DNA. There is interest in developing drugs that will specifically bind to the G-quadruplex regions of telomeres for cancer therapy. For the majority of carcinogens, there is modest sequence selectivity. Our experience is that there is generally <10-fold difference. In some cases the selectivity is the result of intercalation of aromatic rings between purines, e.g., with aflatoxin B1 (Iyer et al. 1994). In general, the sequence selectivity for forming cross-links is greater than for “mono”-adduct formation, in that the initial binding event occurs, but the second is highly dependent upon achieving the correct distance for completing the cross-link. A number of attempts have been made to devise paradigms for the sequence selectivity of bindings of certain carcinogens. However, these have not proven to be reliable. Several comparisons have been made between sites of modification and mutation. There is some evidence for such a relationship with the p53 gene and cancer (Denissenko et al. 1996), although one might not expect an exact relationship. An investigation with the half-mustard formed from glutathione and ethylene dibromide did not show a good relationship between the initial sites of adduction and mutation in a human p53 yeast system (Fig. 2; Valadez and Guengerich 2004). However, much better correlation
Long-term exposure to the environmental contaminant trichloroethylene (TCE) in drinking water has been shown to promote autoimmune disease in association with the expansion of activated CD4 + T cells. The effects of TCE on CD4 + T cells were linked in the present study to the ability of TCE metabolite, trichloroacetaldehyde hydrate (TCAH), to inhibit activationinduced cell death (AICD) in CD4 + T cells. TCAH attenuated AICD in CD4 + T cells by decreasing FasL (CD178) expression but not by altering Fas (CD95) expression or by interfering with Fassignaling events following direct engagement of the Fas receptor. The TCAH-induced decrease in FasL expression did not appear to be mediated at the transcriptional level but was instead due to increased shedding of FasL from the surface of the CD4 + T cells. The ability of TCAH to cleave FasL and thereby decrease AICD appeared to be mediated by metalloproteinases and correlated with a TCAH-induced increase in matrix metalloproteinase-7. Thus, this study presents the novel finding that the environmental contaminant TCE works via its metabolite TCAH to attenuate AICD by increasing metalloproteinase activity that cleaves FasL from CD4 + T cells. This represents a mechanism by which an environmental trigger inhibits AICD in CD4 + T cells and may thereby promote CD4 + T cell-mediated autoimmune disease.
Abstract Base-excision (BER) and nucleotide-excision (NER) repair play pivotal roles in protecting the genomes of dividing cells from damage by endogenous and exogenous agents (i.e. environmental genotoxins). However, their role in protecting the genome of post-mitotic neuronal cells from genotoxin-induced damage is less clear. The present study examines the role of the BER enzyme 3-alkyladenine DNA glycosylase (AAG) and the NER protein xeroderma pigmentosum group A (XPA) in protecting cerebellar neurons and astrocytes from chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) or the alkylating agent 3-methyllexitropsin (Me-Lex), which produce ethenobases or 3-methyladenine (3-MeA), respectively. Neuronal and astrocyte cell cultures prepared from the cerebellum of wild type (C57BL/6) mice or Aag −/− or Xpa −/− mice were treated with 0.1–50 μM CAA for 24 h to 7 days and examined for cell viability, DNA fragmentation (TUNEL labeling), nuclear changes, and glutathione levels. Aag −/− neurons were more sensitive to the acute (>20 μM) and long-term (>5 μM) effects of CAA than comparably treated wild type neurons and this sensitivity correlated with the extent of DNA fragmentation and nuclear changes. Aag −/− neurons were also sensitive to Me-Lex at comparable concentrations of CAA. In contrast, Xpa −/− neurons were more sensitive than either wild type or Aag −/− neurons to CAA (>10 μM), but less sensitive than Aag −/− neurons to Me-Lex. Astrocytes from the cerebellum of wild type, Aag −/− or Xpa −/− mice were essentially insensitive to CAA at the concentrations tested. These studies demonstrate that BER and NER are required to protect neurons from genotoxin-induced cell death.
Chloroacetaldehyde (CA) is a nephrotoxic and neurotoxic metabolite of the anticancer drug ifosfamide (IFA) and is a dose-limiting factor in IFA-based chemotherapy. Plasma levels of CA in IFA-treated cancer patients are often difficult to determine due to the lack of a sufficiently sensitive and specific analytical method. We have developed a simple and sensitive HPLC method with fluorescence detection to measure CA formation catalyzed by liver cytochrome P450 enzymes, either in vivo in IFA-injected rats or in vitro in liver microsomal incubations. This method is based on the formation of the highly fluorescent adduct 1-N(6)-ethenoadenosine from the reaction of CA with adenosine (10 mM) at pH 4.5 upon heating at 80 degrees C for 2 h. The derivatization mixture is directly injected onto a C18 HPLC column and is monitored with a fluorescence detector. Calibration curves are linear (r > 0.999) over a wide range of CA concentrations (5-400 pmol). The limit of detection of CA in plasma using this method is <0.1 microM and only 50 microl of plasma is required for the assay. By coupling this method with a recently described HPLC-fluorescent method to determine acrolein, a cytochrome P450 metabolite of IFA formed during the activation of the drug by 4-hydroxylation, the two major, alternative P450-catalyzed pathways of IFA metabolism can be monitored from the same plasma samples or liver microsomal incubations and the partitioning of drug between these two pathways thereby quantitated. This assay may prove to be useful for studies of IFA metabolism aimed at identifying factors that contribute to individual differences in CA formation and in developing approaches to minimize CA formation while maximizing IFA cytotoxicity.
[1,2-14C]1,2-Dichloroethane was metabolized by rat liver enzyme systems to nonvolatile products and to products irreversibly bound to protein and calf thymus DNA. Cytosolic metabolism to all three types of metabolites was dependent upon the presence of reduced glutathione (GSH), suggesting the role of GSH transferases. Microsomal metabolism to all three types of products occurred via mixed function oxidation; microsomal GSH transferase(s) catalyzed the formation of metabolites irreversibly bound to DNA. GSH blocked microsomal mixed function oxidase (MFO)-catalyzed binding to protein but stimulated binding to DNA in a synergistic manner. 2-Chloroacetaldehyde, S-(2-chloroethyl)-GSH, and 1-chloroso-2-chloroethane are proposed as major species involved in irreversible binding but vinyl chloride, 2-chloroethanol, and chloroethyl radicals are not. The microsomal MFO, synergistic microsomal MFO-GSH transferase, and cytosolic GSH transferase systems differed in their preferences for irreversible binding of label from dichloroethane to various homopolyribonucleotides and only the latter system produced metabolites mutagenic to Salmonella typhimurium TA 1535. We postulate that several 1,2-dichloroethane activation pathways are operative which produce different adducts; the relative contribution of each pathway to total nonvolatile metabolites, mutagenic metabolites, and DNA and protein adducts under these in vitro assay conditions was estimated.
A detailed conformational analysis of 2-methoxypropanal including solvent effects and electron correlation is reported. It is found that the conformer distribution is substantially different from that obtained in vacuo. In general, conformations in which the carbonyl and alkoxy dipoles are synperiplanar to each other are stabilized with respect to the gas phase. Donating groups such a methyl or hydrogen groups are preferably orthogonally disposed with respect to the carbonyl groups. A computational study on the conformational analysis of chloroacetaldehyde is also reported. It is found that the conformer distribution is reversed with respect to the gas phase. The differences in energy are in excellent agreement with the experimental values.
Frameshift mutations are particularly deleterious to protein function and play a prominent role in carcinogenesis. Most commonly these mutations involve the insertion or omission of a single nucleotide by a DNA polymerase that slips on a damaged or undamaged template. The mismatch DNA repair pathway can repair these nascent polymerase errors. However, overexpression of enzymes of the base excision repair (BER) pathway is known to increase the frequency of frameshift mutations suggesting competition between these pathways. We have examined the fate of DNA containing single nucleotide bulges in human cell extracts and discovered that several deaminated or alkylated nucleotides are efficiently removed by BER. Because single nucleotide bulges are more highly exposed we anticipate that they would be highly susceptible to spontaneous DNA damage. As a model for this, we have shown that chloroacetaldehyde reacts more than 18-fold faster with an A-bulge than with a stable A.T base pair to create alkylated DNA adducts that can be removed by alkyladenine DNA glycosylase. Reconstitution of the BER pathway using purified components establishes that bulged DNA is efficiently processed. Single nucleotide deletion is predicted to repair +1 frameshift events, but to make -1 frameshift events permanent. Therefore, these findings suggest an additional factor contributing to the bias toward deletion mutations.
An expanded-bed anaerobic reactor with granular activated carbon (GAC) medium has been developed to treat wastewaters that contain a high concentration of inhibitory and/or refractory organic compounds as well as readily degradable organic compounds. The process is characterised by a combination of two removal mechanisms; adsorption on GAC and biological degradation by microorganisms grown on GAC. Applicability of the reactor to treatment of phenol, chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), pentachlorophenol (PCP) and tetrachloroethylene (PCE) was discussed based on experimental data. All chemicals focused on here were removed well and stably at a removal efficiency of more than 98% even during starting operation and shock load operation. Chemicals in influent that exceeded biological degradation capacity was initially adsorbed on GAC and then gradually degraded, and hence the adsorptive capacity of GAC was regenerated biologically. These results proved that a biological activated carbon anaerobic reactor was effective for treatment of wastewater containing hazardous chemicals, especially for strongly absorbable chemicals, as well as readily degradable organic compounds at high concentration.
Chloroacetaldehyde (CA) is a nephrotoxic and neurotoxic metabolite of the anticancer drug ifosfamide (IFA) and is a dose-limiting factor in IFA-based chemotherapy. Plasma levels of CA in IFA-treated cancer patients are often difficult to determine due to the lack of a sufficiently sensitive and specific analytical method. We have developed a simple and sensitive HPLC method with fluorescence detection to measure CA formation catalyzed by liver cytochrome P450 enzymes, either in vivo in IFA-injected rats or in vitro in liver microsomal incubations. This method is based on the formation of the highly fluorescent adduct 1-N 6 -ethenoadenosine from the reaction of CA with adenosine (10 mM) at pH 4.5 upon heating at 80°C for 2 h. The derivatization mixture is directly injected onto a C18 HPLC column and is monitored with a fluorescence detector. Calibration curves are linear (r > 0.999) over a wide range of CA concentrations (5-400 pmol). The limit of detection of CA in plasma using this method is <0.1 M and only 50 l of plasma is required for the assay. By coupling this method with a recently described HPLC-fluorescent method to determine acrolein, a cytochrome P450 metabolite of IFA formed during the activation of the drug by 4-hydroxylation, the two major, alternative P450-catalyzed pathways of IFA metabolism can be monitored from the same plasma samples or liver microsomal incubations and the partitioning of drug between these two pathways thereby quantitated. This assay may prove to be useful for studies of IFA metabolism aimed at identifying factors that contribute to individual differences in CA formation and in developing approaches to minimize CA formation while maximizing IFA cytotoxicity.
2-Deoxy-D-ribose-5-phosphate aldolase DERA catalyzes the reversible aldol reaction of acetaldehyde and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate (G3P) to give 2-deoxyribose-5-phosphate (DR5P) (Scheme 3). Interestingly, this enzyme is special among aldolases; in that, it uses an aldehyde rather than a ketone as the natural donor; the only other exception being the promiscuous activity observed for FSA (see above). All known DERAs work according to the class I mechanism. DERA accepts a number of aldehydes with long chains up to four carbon atoms (Clapés 2015) and generates (S)-configured stereogenic center in G3P and equivalent stereochemistry in other molecules. Another interesting property of DERA is the fact that it can catalyze sequential aldol reactions yielding 2,4,6-trideoxyhexoses, which can be valuable intermediates for the production of atorvastatin and cholesterol-lowering drugs (Gijsen and Wong 1994; Wong et al. 1995; Patel 2018) . The sequential addition of two molecules of acetaldehyde and chloroacetaldehyde was found to give highly stereospecific polyol systems where the stereo selectivity was controlled by the enzyme and not the substrate (Gijsen et al. 1996) . This sequential aldol reaction is thermodynamically controlled and stops when a stable intramolecular hemiacetal is formed.
SUMMARY Chloroethylene oxide and 2-chloroacetaldehyde, two me tabolites of vinyl chloride, and 2-chloroethanol, a putative metabolic intermediate, were assayed for their genetic ac tivity in the yeasts SChizosaCCharomyCes pombe and Sac charomyces cerevisiae. Chlonoethylene oxide was found to be the most effective in inducing forward mutations in Sch. pombe and gene conversions in S. cerevisiae, increasing the mutation and conversion frequencies 340 and 50 times, respectively, over those of the controls. In either the pres ence or the absence of mouse liver microsomes, 2-chlo roacetaldehyde showed only feeble genetic activity, and 2chloroethanol was completely inactive in both yeast strains. In contrast to vinyl chloride, 2-chloroacetaldehyde did not induce forward mutations in Sch. pombe in the host-me diated assay in mice. The results strongly support the hy pothesis that chloroethylene oxide is one of the principal mutagenic agents formed from vinyl chloride in the pres@ ence of mouse liver enzymes.
The mutagenicity and repair of cytosine adducts formed in reactions of chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), a metabolite of the human carcinogen vinyl chloride, have been studied. The treatment of single-stranded DNA M13 JCM15472 (glyU313) phase with CAA and subsequent transfection of Escherichia coli K-12 JC15419 (trpA461) tester strain resulted in a dose-dependent increase of phage C-T transitions and a decrease of phage survival. The induction of the adaptive response to alkylating agents in bacterial cells significantly decreased the frequency of examined C-T transitions and increased phage survival
Abstract It has been reported that single stranded viral DNA reacts with the carcinogen, chloroacetaldehyde at specific hot spots (Premaratne et al., 1993 Int. J. Biochem. 25, 1669–1672). We tested this occurrence with several other mutagens and potential carcinogens. A series of chemicals (chloroacetaldehyde, methyl, ethyl, and propyl nitro nitrosoguanidine, hydrazine, 2,4 dinitrophenyl hydrazine, hydroxylamine and methyl methanesulfonate) were each separately reacted with viral M13mp18 DNA for 2 hr at 37°C and pH 4.9. The locations of adduction were identified as points of chain termination (or polymerase fall off) when the reacted DNA was subjected to a modified sequencing procedure that had ample regular labeled and unlabeled nucleotides but lacked dideoxy chain termination mixtures. Chain termination was observed to occur at specific, non-random, sites rather than with equal probability at all bases of the DNA. Chemicals with similar structures had identical points of “fall off”. The pattern of chain termination appears to be unique to each class of compounds and is independent of temperature, pH, and salt concentration. Termination is believed to occur when the DNA polymerase encounters an adduct. Mutagens of different unrelated structures when reacted with this DNA produced different sites of adduct formation, while the alkyl nitro nitrosoguanidines, compounds with homologous structure showed identical points of chain termination.
Trichloroacetaldehyde tosylhydrazone acts as an excellent precursor of diazodithioacetate which is generated by treatment of the hydrazone with sulfide ion. This spontaneously cyclizes it to 5-mercapto-1,2,3-thiadiazole. The precursor also gives a 5-amino-1,2,3-triazole on reaction with an amine. α,α-Dichloro ketone tosylhydrazones similarly cyclize to give 1,2,3-thiadiazoles and 1,2,3-triazoles.
A new reagent has been developed for spectrophotometric quantification and thin-layer chromatographic (TLC) detection of the insecticides dichlorvos (DDVP) and diptrex (Trichlorfon), after extraction from biological tissues, blood, and commercial formulations. The reagent is prepared from strong alkali, for example 10% sodium hydroxide, and 0.5% aqueous sodium sulfide solution. The color system obeys the Beer-Lambert law at λ = 401 nm in the concentration range 2–100 μg mL−1. TLC plates coated with a 0.25-mm layer of silica gel G were loaded with microgram quantities of dichlorvos and diptrex standards (from solution) and ethereal extracts of biological samples, for example stomach-intestine, liver-spleen-kidney, and blood. The plate was developed with hexane-acetone, 8 + 2, as mobile phase, dried in air, and sprayed with the reagent. Red spots of dichlorvos and diptrex were obtained at RF 0.26 and 0.42 respectively. The sensitivity of the reagent is ~20 μg for both dichlorvos and diptrex. The reagent is based on the well-known ‘Ogston Reaction’ in which dichloroacetaldehyde produced by alkaline hydrolysis of dichlorvos and diptrex reacts with sodium sulfide giving yellow spots which turn wine red after some time. Dichloroacetaldehyde is reported to be the major metabolite of dichlorvos and diptrex. Other carbamate, organophosphorus, organochlorine, and synthetic pyrethroid insecticides and other components of biological tissue extracts do not interface with the reagent.
The kinetics of the reaction of chloroacetaldehyde with thiourea in water at the C=O and C-Cl bonds were studied. The first step of the formation of the 2-aminothiazole is the reaction of the NH2 group of thiourea with the C=O group of chloroacetaldehyde. Hydrogen chloride evolution and the formation of a thiazole ring are secondary processes that occur simultaneously.
In this study, the catalytic effect of TiO2-ZnO/GAC coupled with non-thermal plasma was investigated on the byproducts distribution of decomposition of chlorinated VOCs in gas streams. The effect of specifi c input energy, and initial gas composition was examined in a corona discharge reactor energized by a high frequency pulsed power supply. Detected by-products for catalytic NTP at 750 J L –1 included CO, CO2, Cl2, trichloroacetaldehyde, as well as trichlorobenzaldehyde with chloroform feeding, while they were dominated by CO, CO2, and lower abundance of trichlorobenzaldehyde and Cl2 with chlorobenzene introduction. Some of the by-products such as O3, NO, NO2, and COCl2 disappeared totally over TiO2-ZnO/GAC. Furthermore, the amount of heavy products such as trichlorobenzaldehyde decreased signifi cantly in favor of small molecules such as CO, CO2, and Cl2 with the hybrid process. The selectivity towards COx soared up to 77% over the catalyst at 750 J L –1 and 100 ppm of
Abstract A highly sensitive HPLC method for the determination of decarboxylated S -adenosylmethionine (dc-SAM) by fluorometric detection was developed. The reaction of dc-SAM and its analogs with chloroacetaldehyde leads to the corresponding 1, N 6 -etheno derivatives. These highly fluorescent derivatives were fully characterized through their proton nuclear magnetic resonance spectra and/or mass spectra. This derivatization procedure has been applied to the analysis of dc-SAM in rat and human urine. After a simple cation exchange column prepurification, the urine extracts were derivatized with chloroacetaldehyde and analyzed by reversed-phase HPLC with fluorometric detection. The method allowed the determination of subpicomole amounts of dc-SAM and was shown to be highly reproducible with the use of decarboxylated S -adenosylethionine as internal standard. The application of the method to the analysis of urine of rats treated with MDL 72175, a potent ornithine decarboxylase inhibitor, showed that the dc-SAM levels increased in a doserelated fashion.
Binding of the recA gene product from Escherichia coli to single-stranded polynucleotides has been investigated using poly(dA) that have been modified by chloroacetaldehyde to yield fluorescent 1,N6-ethenoadenine (epsilon A) bases. A strong enhancement of the fluorescent quantum yield of poly(d epsilon A) is induced upon RecA protein binding. A 4-fold increase is observed in the absence of ATP or ATP gamma S and a 7-fold increase in the presence of either nucleoside triphosphate. RecA protein can bind to poly(d epsilon A) in the absence of both Mg2+ ions and ATP (or ATP gamma S) but Mg2+ ions are required to observe RecA protein binding in the presence of ATP (or ATP gamma S) at pH 7.5. ATP binding to the RecA-poly(d epsilon A) complex induces a dissociation of RecA from the polynucleotide followed by re-binding of [RecA-ATP-Mg2+] ternary complex. Whereas ATP-induced dissociation of RecA-poly(d epsilon A) complexes is a fast process, the subsequent binding reaction of [RecA-ATP-Mg2+] is slow. A model is proposed whereby [RecA-ATP-Mg2+] binding to poly(d epsilon A) involves slow nucleation and elongation processes along the polynucleotide backbone. The nucleation reaction is shown to involve at least a trimer or a tetramer. Polymerization of the [RecA-ATP-Mg2+] ternary complex stops when the polynucleotide is entirely covered with 6 +/- 1 nucleotides per RecA monomer. ATP hydrolysis then induces a release of RecA-ADP complexes from the polynucleotide template.
In this study, the catalytic effect of TiO 2 -ZnO/GAC coupled with non-thermal plasma was investigated on the byproducts distribution of decomposition of chlorinated VOCs in gas streams. The effect of specifi c input energy, and initial gas composition was examined in a corona discharge reactor energized by a high frequency pulsed power supply. Detected by-products for catalytic NTP at 750 J L -1 included CO, CO 2 , Cl 2 , trichloroacetaldehyde, as well as trichlorobenzaldehyde with chloroform feeding, while they were dominated by CO, CO 2 , and lower abundance of trichlorobenzaldehyde and Cl 2 with chlorobenzene introduction. Some of the by-products such as O 3 , NO, NO 2 , and COCl 2 disappeared totally over TiO 2 -ZnO/GAC. Furthermore, the amount of heavy products such as trichlorobenzaldehyde decreased signifi cantly in favor of small molecules such as CO, CO 2 , and Cl 2 with the hybrid process. The selectivity towards CO x soared up to 77% over the catalyst at 750 J L -1 and 100 ppm of chlorobenzene.
Abstract Thiouracils and thiouridines were quantitatively modified under mild conditions with aqueous chloroacetaldehyde. The “hydroxyethano” bridged thiouracils, uracil or uridine were formed.
Dichloroacetaldehyde, an intermediate of organic insecticide, can be synthesized by the catalytic chlorination of paraldehyde or aldehyde. The selection of catalysts, the temperature of various stages of the reaction, etc., were investigated and dichloroaldehyde was obtained in good yields. ::: The experimental results indicate that antimony trichloride is more active than sulfur for catalytic chlorination of paraldehyde or aldehyde. It is necessary to control the reaction temperature, the quantity of catalyst and the molar ratio of the reactants accurately. The product, containing 90~95% of dichloroacet-aldehyde, was obtained in 75~78% yields. ::: Formation of tarry distillation residue due to the polymerization increases with the increasing of the reaction temperature or the quantity of antimony trichloride.
Abstract As the third largest group of identified disinfection by-products (DBPs) by weight, halogenated acetaldehydes (HALs), were monitored for one year at numerous locations in two full-scale drinking water systems applying an ozone-chlorine sequential disinfection strategy. The HALs that were targeted included four trihalogenated acetaldehydes (THALs): chloral hydrate (CH), bromodichloroacetaldehyde (BDCAL), dibromochloroacetaldehyde (DBCAL) and tribromoacetaldehyde (TBAL). Three dihalogenated acetaldehydes (DHALs) were also included: dichloroacetaldehyde (DCAL), bromochloroacetaldehyde (BCAL) and dibromoacetaldehyde(DBAL). In addition to various sampling points in two distribution networks, this study also investigated the formation of HALs during water treatment and for the first time, reports the formation of DBAL before chlorine is applied. Low bromide levels in source waters from both systems resulted in the rare detection of DBAL and TBAL. CH accounted for >50% of total HALs (HAL7) with DHALs accounting for as little as 10% of HAL7, presumably due to the use of ozone-chlorine instead of ozone-chloramine. In the presence of chlorine residuals and with increasing water residence times, most HALs continued to form, more readily in warm water than in cold water. However, the spatial and temporal patterns for each HAL differed depending on speciation (THAL vs. DHAL) and water temperature. Compared to the relatively stable bromine incorporation factor (BIF) of THMs in the distribution systems, the decreasing BIFs of HALs according to water residence time increases suggested that bromine-containing THMs are more stable than their corresponding HALs. Re-chlorination at the extremities of the distribution networks demonstrated a significant impact on the occurrence and speciation of DBPs. In both full-scale systems, water temperature was shown to be the biggest contributing factor to HAL formation. The strong correlations between THM levels and THAL levels make it possible to predict the occurrence of THALs based on THMs.
Abstract The field of poly(haloaldehydes) is reviewed, with emphasis on recent developments. The poly(chloroaldehydes) described by the early investigators had the common characteristics of being formed “spontaneously” from the monomer, and dissociating on being heated. Characterization of these meta polymers by Novak and Whalley showed them to be crystalline and of low molecular weight and to have an OH-ended substituted polyoxymethylene structure. Recently, high-molecular-weight polymers of chloral, dichloroacetaldehyde (DCA), and chloroacetaldehyde (MCA) have been prepared and characterized. The preferred mechanisms of polymerization of chloral and DCA are quite different, being anionic and cationic, respectively. The two polymers are also end-capped by different techniques for thermal stability. The differences in requirements for both polymerization and end-capping are attributed to differences in structure. Polychloral is intractable, but PDCA is a soluble, amorphous polymer, which readily forms str...
Configurationally and conformationally regular polymers can now be synthesized based on sterically restrictive considerations. Trihaloacetaldehyde polymerization provided a fertile field for the investigation of the factors for such polymer formations. The convenient ceiling temperature of trihaloacetaldehyde polymerizations allowed the study of the genesis of these polymerizations. Oligomers were prepared by alkoxide initiation, followed by the establishment of the oligomer alkoxide equilibrium and end-capping. Stereoregularity and conformational regularity were observed in trichloroacetaldehyde (chloral) and tribromoacetaldehyde (bromal) polymerizations. This result was confirmed by solid state magic angle spinning NMR investigations of polychloral, of polybromal as well as of a copolymer of chloral and bromal. Solid state NMR techniques allowed also to investigate copolymers of chloral and aromatic isocyanates. Quantification of the solid state investigation suggests the possibility of a molecular weight estimation of chloral and other insoluble trihaloacetaldehyde polymers by end-group analysis.
Chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) and chloroethylene oxide (CEO), two reactive metabolites of vinyl chloride, were used to introduce increasing amounts of 1,N6-ethenoadenine (eA) and 3,N4-etheno cytosine (eC) residues in poly(dA) and poly(dC), respectively. The modified polynucleotides were assayed with E. coli DNA polymerase I for their template activity and for misincorporation. The miscoding properties of eA and eC that we observed may explain the mutagenic effects reported for vinyl chloride and its metabolites; these lesions may also represent one of the initial steps in vinyl chloride or CEO-induced carcinogenesis.
Capillary electrophoresis coupled with laser-induced fluorescence detection provides a selective analysis of mixtures of adenine-containing compounds (adenine, adenosine, cAMP, AMP, ADP, and ATP) that are derivatized using chloroacetaldehyde as a fluorogenic reagent. The components can be detected with linear response over the concentration range of 10(-4) to 10(-9) M, and the detection limit corresponds to 5 to 10 x 10(-19) mol for each nucleotide. Analysis is achieved in less than 10 min with high separation efficiencies (up to 400,000 theoretical plates) and shows good reproducibility for migration times (0.5 to 1.0%) and peak heights (2.8 to 7.7%). To demonstrate the rapid analysis of small-volume samples, the adenine-containing compounds present in an oocyte from Xenopus laevis are determined.
The high fluorescence of adenine-containing compounds after reaction with chloroacetaldehyde was used to measure the adenine released from rat liver and Artemia salina ribosomes by the action of ricin A chain and gelonin, two ribosome-inactivating proteins (RIPs) that share the same mechanism of action, consisting in the hydrolysis of the N-glycosidic bond of A-4324 of 28 S rRNA. Two methods were employed: (i) h.p.l.c. of the chloroacetaldehyde-reactive material released by RIPs; h.p.l.c. associated with a fluorescence detector allows the identification of adenine and its dosage at quantities as low as 2 ng; (ii) the direct fluorimetric measurement of the material that had reacted with chloroacetaldehyde. The amount of adenine released increases when ribosomes are pretreated in conditions that lead to their dissociation into subunits. Adenine protects ribosomes from the inhibition by ricin A-chain. When ribosomes were incubated with ricin A-chain in the presence of [14C]adenine no incorporation of radioisotope in ribosomes was observed, indicating that neither exchange nor reversal reactions occurred. A binding of [14C]adenine to ricin A chain was not detected by equilibrium dialysis.
Cell extracts and the metabolites of ATP released from the cells were converted into ethenopurines [14, 20] . In brief, 10 µl of chloroacetaldehyde (40%, Wako, Osaka, Japan) was added to a mixture of 250 µl of samples and 90 µl of citrate-phosphate. The reaction mixture was incubated in a dry bath at 80°C for 40 min after addition of 9-β-D-arabinofuranosyladenine (Sigma, St. Louis, MO) as an internal standard. The separation of the ethenopurine derivatives was achieved by reverse-phase chromatography on an analytical Ultron N-phenyl HPLC column (0.46 × 15 cm, 5 µm particle size, Shinwa Chemical Industries, Tokyo) connected to a guard column (0.46 × 1 cm). Fluorescence of derivatives was measured using a spectrofluorometer (FP-540D, Jasco, Tokyo). The wavelengths for excitation and emission were set at 300 nm and 420 nm, respectively. The mobile phase contained 5 mM citrate buffer with 0.2% acetonitrile, the pH of which was adjusted to 4.5 with 2-diethylaminoethanol. The mobile phase was run at a flow rate of 1.0 ml/min at room temperature.
The formation of the trihalogenated acetaldehydes (e.g., chloral hydrate) resulting from chlorination (range = 7.4-85 µg/L, median = 30 µg/L) was substantially higher than that caused by chloramination (range = ND-5.9 µg/L, median =1.3 µg/L). On a median basis, dihalogenated acetaldehyde (e.g., dichloroacetaldehyde) formation resulting from chlorination and chloramination was similar (medians = 2.1 and 2.5 µg/L, respectively). However, the maximum dihalogenated acetaldehyde FP resulting from chloramination (11 µg/L) was higher than chlorination (7.1 µg/L). For the DWTP that had a dihalogenated acetaldehyde FP resulting from chloramination of 11 µg/L, its dihalogenated acetaldehyde FP caused by chlorination was only 2.8 µg/L.
Increasing bromide/DOC will result in more bromine incorporation and more DBP formation, on both a weight and molar basis (Symons et al, 1993) . Because bromide levels often increase during low-flow seasons (e.g., summer) and most of the plants in this study were sampled in the summer when the algal activity or wastewater impact was higher (except for five plants that were resampled in year 2 in the winter or spring), bromide-to-DOC ratios may have been relatively higher. Figure 7 shows the bromine incorporation factor for trihalogenated acetaldehydes and THMs, which is the molar sum of bromine incorporated into a class of DBPs divided by the molar concentration of that class of DBPs (Symons et al, 1993) . For the trihalogenated acetaldehydes, bromine incorporation values ranged from 0 (e.g., all chloral hydrate) to 3 (e.g., all tribromoacetaldehyde). A bromine incorporation factor of 1.0 for trihalogenated acetaldehydes corresponds to a water in which the "average" species is bromodichloroacetaldehyde. In this comparison, there was a good correlation (R 2 = 0.84) in bromine incorporation factors for the THMs and trihalogenated acetaldehydes. However, the slope was less than 1.0 (i.e., 0.75). There may have been less apparent bromine incorporation in the trihalogenated acetaldehydes because of steric hindrance and/or the instability of these DBPs. Xie and Reckhow (1996) found that the bromine-containing trihalogenated acetaldehydes could undergo base-catalyzed hydrolysis. In most studies, chloral hydrate is the only haloacetaldehyde measured. This study demonstrated that bromine-containing and/or dihalogenated species are also important. (A similar analysis was not done for the dihalogenated acetaldehydes because their occurrence was too low to see the effect of bromine incorporation.)
S-(carboxymethyl)-L-cysteine (CMC) and thiodiglycollic acid (TGA) were identified by gas chromatographic-mass spectrometric measurements in the urine of rats after intraperitoneal injections of 2,2'-bis-(chloroethyl)-ether (BCEE). It is therefore probable that BCEE is O-dealkylated by a mixed-function oxidation. The hepatocarcinogenic effect of BCEE may be explained by the liberation of chloroacetaldehyde in vivo.
Abstract Polyriboadenylic acid may be converted to a fluorescent derivative by treatment with chloroacetaldehyde, which leads to the introduction of e-adenylate groups. The properties of such fluorescent derivatives, and of their complexes with polyribouridylic acid, have been examined. The emission properties, including the intensity and polarization of fluorescence, respond to helix → coil transitions involving the polyriboadenylate chain. The conversion of the labeled polyriboadenylic acid to a more rigid bi- or trihelical species is reflected by an increase in apparent rotational relaxation time.
Illustrative discussion is made in chronological order on six select catalysts for asymmetric carbon−carbon bond formations that are scalable and are reported to be potentially scalable: (1) thiamine diphosphate (TPP)-bound pyruvate decarboxylase (PDC) used in the industrial production of (R)-l-phenyl acetyl carbinol (PAC; 5); (2) bimetallic Lewis acid−Bronsted base catalyst (9) for asymmetric Michael addition of dialkyl malonates; (3) Lewis acid−Lewis base catalyst (11) for asymmetric cyanosilylation of aryl alkyl ketones; (4) a chiral Schiff base chelated titanium(IV) alkoxide catalyst (32) for asymmetric addition of diketene to aldehydes; (5) 2-deoxyribose-5-phosphate aldolase (DERA) used in the preparation of (3R,5S)-6-chloro-2,4,6-trideoxy-erythro-hexose in its lactol form (50) from acetaldehyde (43)/chloroacetaldehyde (47) (2:1); and (6) chiral C2-symmetric quaternary ammonium bromides, such as 63 of an N-spiro type, for asymmetric alkylation of Schiff bases of glycine and α-substituted glycine der...
Most halogenated compounds showing genotoxicity do not themselves react with macromolecules but are transformed to reactive metabolites. In order to explain the widely different genotoxicities of halogenated ethylenes, the 'optimum stability' theory of epoxides has been developed recently. An epoxide must be reactive to alkylate DNA, but stable enough to reach the target from the place of its formation. Also, pharmacokinetic aspects are important in accounting for differences in genotoxicities of closely related compounds; examples are provided. Reactive metabolites may bind to proteins, to lipids and coenzymes, and to DNA, but binding to targets other than DNA is far more common than DNA alkylation. An example is provided by investigations on 2,2'-dichlorodiethyl ether from which chloroacetaldehyde is formed. In contrast to vinyl chloride, which generates chloroethylene oxide (chlorooxirane) as well as chloroacetaldehyde, this compound leads to extensive covalent protein binding of metabolites, but not to DNA binding.
Several imidazo[1,2-c]pteridines with a functional group such as amino, alkylamino, alkoxyl, or hydroxyl group at the 6-position were synthesized by a nucleophilic replacement of 6-methylthioimidazo[1,2-c]pteridine with an appropriate nucleophile. The key intermediate methylthio compound was synthesized by condensation of 4-amino-2-methylthiopteridine with chloroacetaldehyde. Similarly, 4-amino-6,7-dimethyl-2-methylthiopteridine and chloroacetaldehyde gave 2,3-dimethyl-6-methylthioimidazo[1,2-c]pteridine, which was also used as a precursor to synthesize several imidazopteridines analogous to above.
Abstract ::: Chemical modification was used to study the conformational changes occurring in yeast tRNAPhe after the Y-base excision. The chemical probe was the adenine- and cytosine-specific reagent chloroacetaldehyde. Comparison of the modification patterns in tRNAPhe and tRNAPhe-Y shows that seven bases, adenines 35, 36 and 38 in the anticodon loop and adenines 73, 76 and cytosines 74, 75 in the 3'-terminus were modified in both tRNAs with a quantitative difference in the modification level of the anticodon loop bases. The most interesting, however, is the qualitative difference consisting in modification of cytosine-60 in the T psi C loop of tRNAPhe-Y. Some aspects of the mechanism of this long-distance conformational transition are briefly discussed.
Smog chamber/gas chromatography techniques are used to investigate the atmospheric degradation of fluroxene, an anesthetic, through oxidation with OH and Cl radicals at 298 K and under atmospheric pressure of N2 or air. The measured rate constants (k) are: k(fluroxene+OH.)=(2.96±0.61)×10−11 and k(fluroxene+Cl.)=(1.62±0.19)×10−10 cm3 molecule−1 s−1. The only product detected after the oxidation of fluroxene with OH radicals is 2,2,2-trifluoroethyl formate (79 % and 83 % molar yield in the absence and presence of NOx, respectively). However, after oxidation with Cl radicals, the detected products are 2,2,2-trifluoroethyl formate (78 %), 2,2,2-trifluoroethyl-1-chloroacetate (5 %), and chloroacetaldehyde (4 %), in the absence of NOx, and 2,2,2-trifluoroethyl formate (93 %), 2,2,2-trifluoroethyl-1-chloroacetate (6 %), and chloroacetaldehyde (5 %), in the presence of NOx. The results indicate that, both in the absence and presence of NOx, the main fate of fluroxene is the addition of the oxidant to the double bond and, once the alkoxy radical is formed, the main decomposition pathway is by means of degradation. Moreover, it is expected that 2,2,2-trifluoroethyl formate is the only oxidation product able to actively contribute to climate change. To successfully assess the contribution of fluroxene to global warming, we measure the infrared spectra of fluroxene and 2,2,2-trifluoroethyl formate, and calculate the radiative efficiencies (REs) to be 0.27 and 0.28 W m−2 ppbv−1, respectively. In addition, the cumulative effect owing to the formation of 2,2,2-trifluoroethyl formate is investigated, and the direct, indirect, and net global-warming potentials are calculated by using the REs and lifetimes of fluroxene and 2,2,2-trifluoroethyl formate.
Themouse c-Ki-ras protooncogene promoter contains ahomopurine-homopyrimidine domain that exhibits S1 nuclease sensitivity invitro. We havestudied the structure ofthisDNAregion ina supercoiled state using a numberofchemical probes fornon-BDNA conformations including diethyl pyrocarbonate, osmiumtetroxide, chloroacetaldehyde, anddimethyl sulfate. Theresults demonstrate thattwotypesof unusualDNA structures formedunderdifferent environmental conditions. A 27-bphomopurinehomopyrimidine mirror repeat adopts atriple-helical HDNAconformation under mildly acidic conditions. This H-DNAseemstoaccount fortheSihypersensitivity of thepromoter invitro, since theobserved pattern ofSi hypersensitivity atasingle baselevel fits well withthe H-DNAformation. Underconditions ofneutral pHwe havedetected Z-DNAcreated by a (CG)5-stretch, located adjacent tothehomopurine-homopyrimidine mirror repeat. Theability ofthepromoter DNAsegment toformnon-Bstructures hasimplications formodels
Four derivatives of 2,6-diaminopurine (1) were synthesised and characterised. When 1 was reacted with chloroacetaldehyde, 5-aminoimidazo[2,1-i]purine (2), 9-aminoimidazo[2,1-b]purine (3), 9-aminoimidazo[1,2-a]purine (4) and diimidazo[2,1-b:2',1'-i]purine (5) were formed. The purified products (3-5) were fully characterised by MS, complete NMR assignments as well as fluorescence and UV spectroscopy. The purified, isolated yields of these products (3-5) varied from 2.5 to 30%. The relative stability of different tautomers was investigated by theoretical calculations. Fluorescence characteristics are also discussed and compared to the starting material 1 and a reference molecule 2-aminopurine.
The bronchiolar Clara cell cytotoxicant, 1,1-dichloroethylene (DCE), is selectively metabolized by CYP2E1 to metabolites including 2,2-dichloroacetaldehyde and DCE-epoxide. We have performed comparative studies in the lungs of adult and weanling male and female mice to determine their relative capacities to metabolize DCE. Levels of activities of p-nitrophenol hydroxylase, N-nitrosodimethylamine demethylase and NADPH-cytochrome P450 reductase were all significantly higher in adult female mice than in either adult male or weanling mice of both sexes. The quantities of 2,2-dichloroacetaldehyde (identified as its hydrolysis product, acetal) and the DCE-epoxide (identified as the GSH conjugates, 2-(S-glutathionyl) acetyl glutathione [B] and 2-S-glutathionyl acetate [C]) formed were significantly higher in lung microsomes from adult female mice than in those from either adult male or weanling mice of both sexes. Also, the metabolite levels formed in weanling mice were significantly higher than in adult male mice. The amounts of DCE-metabolites produced correlated with the relative severities of DCE-induced bronchiolar damage. The severities of bronchiolar injury were in the rank order adult female > weanling male and female > adult male mice, and coincided with the rank order of DCE-epoxide formation in these experimental groups of mice. In comparison with adult male and weanling male and female mice, adult female mice expressed highest levels of activities of CYP2E1-selective and reductase enzymes, formed most of the DCE-epoxide and were most susceptible to DCE-induced pneumotoxicity. These findings demonstrated sex-related differences in expression of activating enzymes and DCE metabolism in lung, and only in the adult female vs. female weanling mice were there age-related effects in regard to formation of both DCE-metabolites and cytotoxicity.
Rapid and quantitative dephosphorylation of the new anticancer nucleotide analogue fludarabine phosphate to its nucleoside 9-beta-D-arabinofuranosyl-2-fluoroadenine (F-ara-A) renders this metabolite the target for pharmacologic investigations. At clinically effective doses of fludarabine phosphate (18-30 mg/m2 per day) comprehensive pharmacokinetic analysis of F-ara-A has been limited by the sensitivity of UV based HPLC assays. To address this problem we developed a sensitive test based on the condensation of F-ara-A with chloroacetaldehyde to form the fluorescent derivative, arabinosyl-1,N6-etheno-isoguanine. Combined with a solid-phase extraction step prior to derivatization and separation of the reaction products by reverse-phase HPLC, this assay had a quantitation limit of 2 pmol F-ara-A per ml plasma. Slightly modified, the system was also applicable to urine specimens, with a quantitation limit of 1 nmol F-ara-A per ml urine.
This review is of a series of the authors' studies designed to test the hypothesis that administration of trichloroethylene (TCE), dichloroethylene (DCE), their metabolites, and related compounds are responsible for fetal cardiac teratogenesis when given to pregnant rats during organogenesis. Identification of teratogenic compounds will allow more accurate assessment of environmental contaminants and public health risks. Epidemiologic studies and previous teratogenic studies using chick embryos and fetal rats have reported an increased number of congenital cardiac defects when exposed to TCE or DCE during fetal development. Metabolites of TCE and DCE studied in the drinking-water exposure study include trichloroacetic acid (TCAA), monochloroacetic acid, trichloroethanol, carboxymethylcysteine, trichloroacetaldehyde, dichloroacetaldehyde, and dichlorovinyl cysteine. Varying doses of each were given in drinking water to pregnant rats during the period of fetal heart development. 
According to Hempel et al. [1997] , TRO is transformed mainly to IFO in the liver, being dechloroethylated at the exocyclic nitrogen. Only a minor quantity of TRO is converted to CYC. Previous pharmacokinetic studies on IFO have shown that up to 50% are metabolized by side-chain oxidation, which results in the formation of inactive 2-dechloroethylifosfamide (2-DCE) and 3-dechloroethylifosfamide (3-DCE) and the release of cytotoxic chloroacetaldehyde [Börner et al. 2000 , Brüggemann et al. 1997 , Wagner 1994 . To date, our knowledge about the metabolism of TRO is mainly based on the pharmacokinetic study of Hempel et al. [1997] . Earlier investigations of TRO metabolism used only indirect methods as the 4-nitrobenzylpyridine (NBP) method [Brock 1973] , which gives only an estimate of the whole alkylating activity, because this test cannot discriminate between the different metabolites.
The bacterium Xanthobacter autotrophicus is capable of growing on short-chain haloalkanes as its sole source of carbon and energy (2). Its natural substrate 1,2-dichloroethane is degraded via 2-chloroethanol, chloroacetaldehyde, and chloroacetate to glycolate in four successive enzymatic reactions before it enters the organism's central metabolic routes. Brominated compounds can also be processed in this way. Two different dehalogenases are used to cleave off the halogen atoms in the first and fourth step. In the first step, a haloalkane dehalogenase catalyzes the conversion of 1,2-dichloroethane into 2-chloroethanol and chloride. The three-dimensional structure (3) and catalytic mechanism (4) of this enzyme have been elucidated by x-ray crystallography.
We studied the effects of ifosfamide and major metabolites on intracellular glutathione (GSH) levels in human peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL). In vitro exposure of PBL to 4-hydroperoxyifosfamide (4-OOH-IF), acrolein or chloroacetaldehyde at 37 degrees C for 60 min led to a concentration dependent depletion of intracellular GSH. The concentration of the three metabolites to cause a 50% depletion of GSH in PBL was in the micromolar range (acrolein: 16 +/- 4 microM; 4-OOH-IF: 22 +/- 9 microM; chloroacetaldehyde: 30 +/- 7 microM). Exposure to ifosfamide, the non-activated drug, had no effects on the intracellular GSH levels. Pretreatment with 4-OOH-IF suppressed dose-dependently the interleukin-2-induced proliferation of PBL. Incubation of PBL together with 2-mercaptoethanesulfonate (mesna) and 4-OOH-IF, acrolein or chloroacetaldehyde prevented the GSH depletion. The protecting effect of mesna in combination with 4-OOH-IF was independent of GSH biosynthesis, because addition of buthionine sulfoximine had no significant influence on this effect. These findings indicate a novel protective mechanism of mesna against intracellular GSH depletion of PBL during exposure to metabolites of ifosfamide.
The industrial solvent trichloroethylene (TCE) is a widespread environmental contaminant known to impact the immune system. In the present study, female MRL+/+ mice were treated for 40 weeks with trichloroacetaldehyde hydrate (TCAH), a metabolite of TCE, in the drinking water. The results were compared with the data from an earlier study in which MRL+/+ mice were exposed to TCAH for 4 weeks. Following a 40-week exposure, the mice developed skin inflammation and dose-dependent alopecia. In addition, TCAH appeared to modulate the CD4(+) T-cell subset by promoting the expression of an activated/effector (i.e., CD62L(lo)) phenotype with an increased capacity to secrete the proinflammatory cytokine interferon-gamma. However, unlike what was observed after only 4 weeks of exposure, TCAH did not significantly attenuate activation-induced cell death (AICD) or the expression of the death receptor FasL in CD4(+) T cells. Some metalloproteinases (MMPs) are thought to play a role in susceptibility to AICD by inducing FasL shedding. Thus, both the 4- and 40-week sera were tested for MMP-7 levels in an attempt to explain the disparate results of TCAH on AICD and FasL expression. Serum MMP-7 levels were significantly higher in mice exposed to TCAH for 4 weeks. In contrast, the serum MMP-7 levels were increased in all the mice by 40 weeks when compared with a nonautoimmune strain. Taken together, a chronic exposure to TCAH promotes alopecia and skin inflammation. The early effects of TCAH on MMP-7 levels may provide a mechanism by which TCAH promotes skin pathology.
Summary Polyriboadenylic acid was treated with chloroacetaldehyde under conditions known to introduce e-adenosine groups. The degree of modification was monitored by increase in fluorescence intensity. Modified e-poly rA was found to be inhibitory when unprimed 70S AMV RNA was used as a substrate, suggesting direct competition with the poly rA tract of the RNA. Since e-poly rA cannot effectively base pair with nucleic acids normally involved in cellular processes, it has the potential of being useful as an inhibitor of oncogenic viral polymerases.
Images in Clinical Neurology The Neurohospitalist 2017, Vol. 7(1) 49-50 a The Author(s) 2016 Reprints and permission: sagepub.com/journalsPermissions.nav DOI: 10.1177/1941874416637407 journals.sagepub.com/home/nhos Wernicke-Like Encephalopathy Associated With Ifosfamide John Kent Lin, MD 1 , Daniel S. Chow, MD 2 , Leslie Sheu, MD 1 , and Bhavya Rehani, MD 2 Keywords imaging, Wernicke encephalopathy, dyskinesia, drug induced A 73-year-old female with maxillary chondroblastic sarcoma, chronic kidney disease, and undernutrition presented with ataxia, myoclonus, and confusion 1 week after ifosfamide and etoposide. Three days later, she became obtunded. Magnetic resonance imaging of the brain revealed abnorm- alities in the bilateral thalami (Figure 1) and mammillary bod- ies (Figure 2), suggestive of thiamine deficiency. Treatment dose of intravenous thiamine was administered, and her neu- rologic status normalized within 24 hours. Ifosfamide rarely causes a Wernicke-like encephalopathy, particularly in patients with sarcoma, elevated creatinine, and hypoalbuminemia. 1 Toxicity is likely mediated through its metabolite Chloroacetaldehyde, which may impair thiamine function, and is treated with methylene blue or thiamine. 2 Figure 2. Axial fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) magnetic resonance (MR) image demonstrates increased signal intensity in the mammillary bodies, bilaterally (arrows). Author’s Note John Kent Lin, Daniel Chow, Leslie Sheu, and Bhavya Rehnai contrib- uted to drafting or revising the manuscript for intellectual content. Bha- vya Rehani is the corresponding author, principal author, and guarantor. Department of Medicine, University of California–San Francisco, San Fran- cisco, CA, USA Department of Radiology and Biomedical Imaging, University of California– San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA Figure 1. Axial fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) magnetic resonance (MR) image demonstrates increased signal intensity involving the thalami, bilaterally (arrows). Corresponding Author: Bhavya Rehani, University of California–San Francisco, 505 Parnassus Ave, San Francisco, CA 94143, USA. Email: bhavya.rehani@ucsf.edu
Abstract A synthetic method of producing (E)- and (Z)-isomers of 1-benzhydryl-4-cinnamylpiperazines in a specific ratio from corresponding benzhydrylpiperazine is described. Of the three compounds synthesized (5a–c), the ratio of E/Z-isomers remained around 15:85. The key intermediates, 1-benzhydryl-4-(2,2-dimethoxyethyl)piperazine derivatives (3a–c), were prepared by nucleophilic substitution reaction of benzhydrylpiperazines (2a–c) with chloroacetaldehyde dimethylacetal in good yield (up to 88%). Hydrolysis of 3a–c gave the corresponding aldehydes 4a–c, which when subjected to the Wittig reaction followed by column purification to afford 1a–c (E-isomers) and 6a–c (Z-isomers) in pure form. The isolated compounds were characterized by NMR and mass spectral analysis. [Supplementary materials are available for this article. Go to the publisher's online edition of Synthetic Communications® for the following free supplemental resource(s): Full experimental and spectral details.]
Treatment of 2-hydrazinothiazole (1) with methyl isocyanate gave 4-methyl-1-(thiazol-2-yl)semicarbazide (2), identical with the product obtained from 1-(methylcarbamoyl)thiosemicarbazide (4) and chloroacetaldehyde diethyl acetal. At room temperature 1-isopropylidene-2-(thiazol-2-yl)hydrazine (6a) and methyl isocyanate afforded 2-(isopropylidenehydrazono)-3-methylcarbamoyl-Δ4-thiazoline (7), but in boiling methyl cyanide a 2 : 1 mixture of the thiazoline (7) and the isomeric 1-isopropylidene-4-methyl-2-(thiazol-2-yl)semicarbazide (8) was obtained. Hydrolysis of the isopropylidene derivative (8) to 4-methyl-2-(thiazol-2-yl)semicarbazide (3) occurred during column chromatography on silica gel. The thiazoline (7) rearranged to give the isomeric thiazole (8) in boiling methyl cyanide, and was converted into the semicarbazide derivative (2) in boiling dilute hydrochloric acid.
The genetic toxicity profiles of vinyl chloride (VCl), vinyl bromide (VBr), ethyl carbamate (EC), vinyl carbamate (VC) and some structurally related chemicals were investigated in both somatic and germ cells of Drosophila melanogaster. In the white/white+ eye mosaic assay, a screening system measuring predominantly homologous recombination in somatic cells, only marginal genotoxic activities were observed for acetyl chloride (ACl), glycolaldehyde (GCA), 2,2'-dichlorodiethyl ether (DDE) and methyl carbamate (MC), whereas VCl, 2-chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), VBr, 2-bromoacetaldehyde (BAA) and EC were clearly recombinogenic in the assay. Those chemicals proven to be recombinogenic in somatic cells were investigated further in postmeiotic male germ cells, utilizing as descriptors of their genotoxicity I(CL/RL) and M(exr-)/M(exr+) indices. The I(CL/RL) index is the rate of induced chromosome loss (CL), a clastogenic event, divided by the forward mutation rate, measured as recessive lethal (RL) mutations in 700 loci of the X-chromosome. The M(exr-)/M(exr+) mutation enhancement ratio is obtained by determining RL under excision repair deficient versus repair proficient conditions. With I(CL/RL) values (2.7-6.9) similar to those obtained for cross-linking agents, vinyl chloride, vinyl bromide, ethyl carbamate and vinyl carbamate are all efficient clastogenic agents in Drosophila germ cells. In the absence of excision repair, however, neither CEO nor CAA gave a hypermutability response (M(exr-)/M(exr+) approximately 1). By contrast, VCl, VBr, EC and VC showed clearly enhanced M(exr-)/M(exr+) ratios, suggesting that these compounds produce some repairable DNA modification(s) that are not generated by their epoxides. This unexpected finding points to the formation of other, yet unknown, metabolites of vinyl chloride, vinyl bromide, ethyl carbamate and vinyl carbamate. Our results support the concept that the epoxides chloroethylene oxide (CEO), bromoethylene oxide (BEO) and vinyl carbamate epoxide (VCO) are the most essential mutagenic intermediates. Compared to chloroethylene oxide (CEO), 2-chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) was approximately 50 times less effective in the induction of RL, whereas BAA was inactive as a mutagen. These findings are consistent with the general view that CAA and BAA play no major role in the genotoxic action of vinyl halides.
2-Chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), a metabolite of the carcinogen vinyl chloride, reacts with DNA to form cyclic etheno ()-lesions. AlkB, an iron-/alpha-ketoglutarate-dependent dioxygenase, repairs 1, N (6)-ethenodeoxyadenosine (A) and 3, N (4)-ethenodeoxycytidine (C) in site-specifically modified single-stranded viral genomes in vivo and also protects the E. coli genome from the toxic effects of CAA. We examined the role of AlkB as a cellular defense against CAA by characterizing the frequencies, types, and distributions of mutations induced in the double-stranded supF gene of pSP189 damaged in vitro and replicated in AlkB-proficient (AlkB (+)) and AlkB-deficient (AlkB (-)) E. coli. AlkB reduced mutagenic potency and increased the survival of CAA-damaged plasmids. Toxicity and mutagenesis data were benchmarked to levels of -adducts and DNA strand breaks measured by LC-MS/MS and a plasmid nicking assay. CAA treatment caused dose-dependent increases in A, C, and 1, N (2)-ethenodeoxyguanosine (1, N (2)-G) and small increases in strand breaks and abasic sites. Mutation frequency increased in plasmids replicated in both AlkB (+) and AlkB (-) cells; however, at the maximum CAA dose, the mutation frequency was 5-fold lower in AlkB (+) than in AlkB (-) cells, indicating that AlkB protected the genome from CAA lesions. Most induced mutations in AlkB (-) cells were G:C to A:T transitions, with lesser numbers of G:C to T:A transversions and A:T to G:C transitions. G:C to A:T and A:T to G:C transitions were lower in AlkB (+) cells than in AlkB (-) cells. Mutational hotspots at G122, G123, and G160 were common to both cell types. Three additional hotspots were found in AlkB (-) cells (C133, T134, and G159), with a decrease in mutation frequency and change in mutational signature in AlkB (+) cells. These results suggest that the AlkB protein contributes to the elimination of exocyclic DNA base adducts, suppressing the toxic and mutagenic consequences induced by this damage and contributing to genetic stability.
Ifosfamide (IF) is an alkylating cytostatic with urotoxic and tubulotoxic side effects which may result in the development of Fanconi syndrome in children. While the urotoxicity of IF is effectively prevented by the uroprotective thiol compound sodium-2-mercaptoethanesulfonate (Mesna), tubulo-toxicity of IF may occur even in the presence of Mesna and in the absence of any signs of urotoxicity. Using the renal tubular cell line LLC-PK1, we investigated whether there is a protective effect of Mesna or of its major dimeric metabolite Dimesna against metabolites of IF with respect to the Na/H exchanger activity. We tested the major IF metabolites 4-hydroperoxy-IF (4-OOH-IF), chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), and acrolein. All metabolites significantly inhibit the Na/H exchanger activity. Half-maximal inhibition of transport occurs at concentrations of 120 mumol/l (4-OOH-IF), 80 (CAA), and 60 mumol/l (acrolein) after 2 h of incubation. The onset of the inhibitory effect of all three metabolites is rapid. Complete inhibition of Na/H exchange by acrolein and CAA is present after a 6-hour exposure to 100 mumol/l of the respective metabolite, while 100 mumol/l 4-OOH-IF causes only 50% inhibition after 24 h of incubation. Dimesna, which the proximal tubular cell has to reduce to Mesna at the expense of intracellular glutathione before it exerts a uroprotective effect, has no protective effect in LLC-PK1 cells. Dimesna (0.3 mmol/l) displaces the dose-response curve for acrolein to the left, indicating an increased toxicity of the combination of acrolein plus Dimesna. Mesna (0.3 mmol/l) has a complete protective effect with respect to acrolein and CAA, while the protective effect versus 100 mumol/l of 4-OOH-IF is incomplete. We conclude that the function of the Na/H exchanger in LLC-PK1 cells is altered by metabolites of IF. The incomplete protection against the toxic effect of 4-OOH-IF by Mesna may explain the pathomechanism by which IF causes tubulotoxicity in the absence of urotoxicity.
The industrial solvent trichloroethylene (TCE) is a widespread environmental contaminant known to impact the immune system. In the present study, female MRL+/+ mice were treated for 40 weeks with trichloroacetaldehyde hydrate (TCAH), a metabolite of TCE, in the drinking water. The results were compared with the data from an earlier study in which MRL+/+ mice were exposed to TCAH for 4 weeks. Following a 40-week exposure, the mice developed skin inflammation and dose-dependent alopecia. In addition, TCAH appeared to modulate the CD4 + T-cell subset by promoting the expression of an activated/effector (i.e., CD62L lo ) phenotype with an increased capacity to secrete the proinflammatory cytokine interferon-g. However, unlike what was observed after only 4 weeks of exposure, TCAH did not significantly attenuate activation-induced cell death (AICD) or the expression of the death receptor FasL in CD4 + T cells. Some metalloproteinases (MMPs) are thought to play a role in susceptibility to AICD by inducing FasL shedding. Thus, both the 4-and 40-week sera were tested for MMP-7 levels in an attempt to explain the disparate results of TCAH on AICD and FasL expression. Serum MMP-7 levels were significantly higher in mice exposed to TCAH for 4 weeks. In contrast, the serum MMP-7 levels were increased in all the mice by 40 weeks when compared with a nonautoimmune strain. Taken together, a chronic exposure to TCAH promotes alopecia and skin inflammation. The early effects of TCAH on MMP-7 levels may provide a mechanism by which TCAH promotes skin pathology.
Ifosfamide rarely causes a Wernicke-like encephalopathy, particularly in patients with sarcoma, elevated creatinine, and hypoalbuminemia. 1 Toxicity is likely mediated through its metabolite Chloroacetaldehyde, which may impair thiamine function, and is treated with methylene blue or thiamine. 2
The qualitative composition and concentrations of volatile organic compounds released from FPP, FPP/S, and FPM polymeric filter materials of Petryanov filters into air under static and dynamic conditions at 20 and 50°C were determined. The volatile components were identified by chromatography–mass spectrometry and gas chromatography, and their concentrations were determined by gas chromatography. Chlorinated hydrocarbons, trichloroacetaldehyde, styrene, ethyl acetate, and n-butyl acetate were detected as the constituents of the air (headspace) phase over the FPP, FPP/S, and FPM materials of Petryanov filters.
Abstract : Vinyl Chloride Monomer is one of the few chemical s identified as a human carcinogen. In this report, the toxicity and mutagenicity of VCM and its two metabolic products, 2-chloroethylene oxide (CEO and 2-chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) were studied in a human B-lymphoblastoid line containing cloned cytochrome P450IIE1. Cytochrome P450IIE1 is capable of metabolizing VCM to CEO which non- enzymatically rearranges to CAA. Toxicity was determined by plating cells immediately after exposure and comparing their clone-forming ability to that of untreated cells. Mutagenicity at the hprt locus was determined by plating cells in the presence of the selective agent 6-thioguanine. Delivered doses of 25 um to 400 um VCM x 24 hours produced no measureable toxicity but resulted in induced mutation frequencies that ranged from 0.5x10 EXP-6 to 5.6x10 EXP-6. Although increases in mutation frequency were consistently seen, a clear dose- response was not apparent. Dose dependent increases in toxicity and mutagenicity were observed with both CEO and CAA. Treatments of 25 um CEO x 24 hours resulted in survival of 0.82 and induced mutation frequency of 8x10-6, while similar treatments with CAA produced a survival of 0.06 and induced mutation frequency of 9x10 exp-6. Comparison of mutation frequency/survival ratios for three compounds at the same induced mutation frequency suggest the majority of mutations induced by VCM must be produced by CEO. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) was used to identify unique VCM, CEO, and CAA mutations in exon 3 of the hprt gene.
Dichloroacetaldehyde, a presumed metabolite of the insecticides dichlorvos and trichlorphon, is mutagenic in the Salmonella/microsome test. Its mutagenic potency is higher than that of the established mutagen dichlorvos. It is possible that the bacterial mutagenicity test only or mainly detects the effect of methylation by dichlorvos.
The nucleophilic addition of secondary phosphine chalcogenides to 2,2,2-trichloroacetaldehyde proceeds under mild noncatalytic conditions (12–25dgC, 15–90 min) with the formation of functional tertiary phosphine chalcogenides, containing hydroxy groups in up to 98% yield. Using the method of concurrent reactions the reactivity of secondary phosphine chalcogenides in this reaction was shown to decrease in the order: (PhCH2CH2)2P(O)H ≫ (PhCH2CH2)2P(S)H > (PhCH2CH2)2P(Se)H, and the secondary bis[2-(2-pyridyl) ethyl]-phosphine oxide was more reactive than bis(2-phenethyl)phosphine oxide.
32P-Postlabelling procedures coupled with HPLC have been developed to detect and measure a range of cyclic DNA adducts formed by bifunctional genotoxic agents. The methods are based on reverse-phase HPLC, particularly column-switching HPLC, to enrich adduct 3'-monophosphates before labelling. Following 3'-dephosphorylation of the 3'5'-[5'-32P]bisphosphates with nuclease P1, the resulting 5'-[32P]monophosphate adducts are resolved, identified and characterized by co-chromatography with synthetic reference standards. The procedures have been applied to a number of cyclic adducts including those formed by chloroacetaldehyde, glycidaldehyde and malonaldehyde. In general, labelling efficiencies measured as chromatographed 5'-[32P]monophosphates were in the range 30-40%. However, the values for the malonaldehyde deoxyguanosine adduct were much lower. The techniques have been applied to studies on the formation of DNA adducts in the skin of male C3H mice treated cutaneously with glycidaldehyde. The HPLC-32P-postlabelling analysis of epidermal DNA hydrolysates indicated that a single major cyclic adduct was formed by reaction with deoxyadenosine residues in mouse skin DNA. The adduct was identified as a hydroxymethyl ethenodeoxyadenosine adduct by comparison with a synthetic standard. This adduct was highly fluorescent and it was possible to make quantitative comparisons of the amounts of adduct determined by either HPLC-32P-postlabelling or HPLC-fluorescence detection.
Reactions of 6-amino-3,4-dihydro-2-methoxy-4-oxopyrimidine 1a and its 3-methyl derivative 1b with chloroacetaldehyde and chloroacetyl chloride are discussed in this paper. Amongst others compounds, we have obtained, in low yield, the novel ring system oxazolo[3,2-c]pyrrolo[3,2-e]pyrimidine. The anticancer and antimicrobial activities of some of the obtained products are described.
N-(2-Azidoethyl)chitosan was synthesized from low-molecular-weight chitosan (molecular weight 37 000 and degree of deacetylation 0.74) in three steps: (1) reaction of chitosan with chloroacetaldehyde to form a Schiffbase, (2) reduction of the Schiffbase with sodium borohydride, and (3) treatment of the reduction product with sodium azide. The course of the formation of the Schiffbase (this step is determining for the degree of substitution of the final product) was affected by the molar ratio of the reagents, the reaction time, and, primarily, the pH value of the medium. This method for selective to an amino group, does not require harsh conditions, and can be proposed for the azide pre-click modification of chitosan.
This article reviews the metabolism and pharmacokinetics of ifosfamide and their implications for the cytostatic efficacy and toxicity pattern of this alkylating agent. Ifosfamide is a prodrug that requires biotransformation to become cytotoxic. It is a structural isomer of cyclophosphamide from which it differs only in having the chlorethyl functions on different nitrogen atoms. This causes a considerable change in initial metabolism, although overall metabolism remains the same. Beside the formation of 4-hydroxy-ifosfamide ('activated ifosfamide'), a second pathway with liberation of chloroacetaldehyde exists. Therefore, less activated drug is formed than during cyclophosphamide metabolism. This fact may well explain why higher doses of ifosfamide are required during treatment. Chloroacetaldehyde may account for the adverse effects and therapeutic effects of the parent drug. This metabolite has been associated with central nervous system toxicity during ifosfamide treatment and was shown to deplete intracellular glutathione concentrations. Glutathione depletion may support the activity of alkylating metabolites in tumour cells, thus overcoming the relative resistance of the cells to alkylating agents. Possibly, this mechanism explains the lack of complete cross-resistance between ifosfamide and cyclophosphamide as well as the greater antitumour activity of ifosfamide in some tumours. Urotoxicity of ifosfamide, which was the dose-limiting adverse effect, can be successfully attenuated by the use of mesna. Distinct pharmacokinetic properties of mesna are responsible for the fact that in contrast to other sulphydryl compounds the uroprotective activity of mesna does not imply a loss of therapeutic efficacy.
The reaction of chemical carcinogens with DNA is well documented, but whether this interaction occurs at specific sites in chromatin is unknown. We have examined in vivo the reaction of a known carcinogen, chloroacetaldehyde, with the active and inactive major immediate early gene of human cytomegalovirus. We found that during active transcription of the gene, this chemical carcinogen reacts with a unique DNA site in the 5' flanking sequence of the major immediate early gene. However, no reaction was detected in infected nonpermissive cells in which the gene was inactive. The chloroacetaldehyde-reactive site is located at -836 +/- 10 bp from the mRNA cap site in the part of the regulatory region that can both negatively and positively affect promoter activity [Nelson et al., Mol Cell Biol 7:4125-4129, 1987]. These results suggest, at least in the case of chloroacetaldehyde, the possibility that the molecular mechanism of chemical carcinogenesis involves a chemical reaction at specific sites in chromatin within the sequences responsible for regulation of gene expression. Such carcinogen-DNA interaction occurs as a consequence of a non-B DNA structure that contains unpaired DNA bases existing at specific sites in chromatin.
After incubation of chloroacetaldehyde-treated DNA with cell-free homogenates, the excision of N2,3-ethenoguanine and 1,N6-ethenoadenine was observed with a rat brain tumour cell line. The repair mechanism was that of an N-glycosylase. The high specificity of all known DNA N-glycosylases and some unique properties of the enzymatic reaction indicate the existence of N-glycosylases specific for the repair of etheno, or similar, adducts.
The mouse c-Ki-ras protooncogene promoter contains a homopurine-homopyrimidine domain that exhibits S1 nuclease sensitivity in vitro. We have studied the structure of this DNA region in a supercoiled state using a number of chemical probes for non-B DNA conformations including diethyl pyrocarbonate, osmium tetroxide, chloroacetaldehyde, and dimethyl sulfate. The results demonstrate that two types of unusual DNA structures formed under different environmental conditions. A 27-bp homopurine-homopyrimidine mirror repeat adopts a triple-helical H-DNA conformation under mildly acidic conditions. This H-DNA seems to account for the S1 hypersensitivity of the promoter in vitro, since the observed pattern of S1 hypersensitivity at a single base level fits well with the H-DNA formation. Under conditions of neutral pH we have detected Z-DNA created by a (CG)5-stretch, located adjacent to the homopurine-homopyrimidine mirror repeat. The ability of the promoter DNA segment to form non-B structures has implications for models of gene regulation.
Ifosfamide (IF) and cyclophosphamide (CP) are common chemotherapeutic agents. Interestingly, while the two drugs are isomers, only IF treatment is known to cause nephrotoxicity and neurotoxicity. Therefore, it was anticipated that a comparison of IF and CP drug metabolites in the mouse would reveal reasons for this selective toxicity. Drug metabolites were profiled by ultra-performance liquid chromatography-linked electrospray ionization quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry (UPLC-ESI-QTOFMS), and the results analyzed by multivariate data analysis. Of the total 23 drug metabolites identified by UPLC-ESI-QTOFMS for both IF and CP, five were found to be novel. Ifosfamide preferentially underwent N-dechloroethylation, the pathway yielding 2-chloroacetaldehyde, while cyclophosphamide preferentially underwent ring-opening, the pathway yielding acrolein (AC). Additionally, S-carboxymethylcysteine and thiodiglycolic acid, two downstream IF and CP metabolites, were produced similarly in both IF- and CP-treated mice. This may suggest that other metabolites, perhaps precursors of thiodiglycolic acid, may be responsible for IF encephalopathy and nephropathy.
Poster Sessions substitution induced stabilizing effects via more number of inter molecular hydrogen bonds. The strong intramolecular N-H...N bond locks the molecular conformation and eliminates conformational flexibility in all derivatives. The comparative study on detailed structural features, intermolecular interactions and modes of packing will be presented. 1. Thalladi, V.R., et al,(1998). J.Am. Chem. Soc.120, 8702-8710. 2. Chandrakumar et al. Acta Cryst. (2005). E61, o2444-o2446. 3. Mohan, S. et al, (2003). Asian J. Chem. 15, 67-70. 4. Anilkumar G.N. et al, Acta Cryst. (2007). E63, o2077-o2079. The synthesis and design of the compounds possessing important pharmacological and biological properties is an important area of research. In this respect, Schiff bases and their related thiophene derivatives containing amino and carboxyl functions have been synthesized. They have been found to exhibit broad spectrum of biological activities such as antiviral, antiinflammatory and antimicrobial activities 1 . Specifically, 2-aminothiophene-3-carboxylates and carboxamides were recognized as allosteric enhancers for A1 adenosine receptors 2 . In view of the above and in continuation of our work on structural studies of thiophene 3-carboxamide derivatives 3 , crystal structure of "2-{[(1E)-(2-chlorophenyl)methylene]amino}-N-(2-furylmethyl)-4,5-dimethylthiophene-3-carboxamide" was determined. The compound C24H25N3O2S, crystallizes under Orthorhombic system, P212121 space group, a = 6.1105(19), b = 15.977(5) and c = 18.575(6) Å, V = 1813.5(10) Å -3 , Z= 4, & D= 1.366 Mgm -3 . The intensity data were collected using Bruker Smart CCD diffractometer using graphite monochromated MoKα radiation. The structure was solved using SIR92 program and refined using fullmatrix least squares on F 2 to an R value of 0.056 using SHELXL-97 for 2842 reflections with I>2 σ(I). In the non-planar molecule, the furan and chlorophenyl ring making dihedral angle of 89.1(2) and 15.8 (7) Thiophene derivates containing amino and carboxyl functions have been found to exhibit broad spectrum of biological activities like anti-viral, anti-inflammatory, antimicrobial activities. Specifically, the 2-amino-carboxylic acid esters were recognized as allosteric enhancers for A1 adenosine receptors. Recent Structure activity relation studies have shown that the amides also exhibit similar properties. Our earlier investigations on the structures of biologically active thiophene 3-carboxamides, has shown that the chloro substitution in the aryl amide group had a significant effect 1 . The ortho -chloro group reversed the orientation of the amide linkage and favoured the formation of more intra molecular hydrogen bonds. The para-chloro substitution induced stabilizing effects via more number of inter molecular hydrogen bonds. The titled compound in the present study bears a close structural relationship with the reported allosteric enhancers for adenosine 2 and hence its structure has been investigated. The compound C9H12N2OS, crystallizes under Tetragonal system, I 41/a space group, a = b = 20.5807(16) Å and c = 8.9233(13) Å, V = 3779.6(7) Å 3 , Z= 16, µ = 0.303 mm -1 , & D= 1.38 gm -3 .The three dimensional intensity data were collected using Bruker Smart CCD diffractometer using graphite monochromated MoKα radiation. The structure was solved using SIR92 program and refined till R value converges to 0.0576. The crystal structure stabilized by both intra and intermolecular N-H...O hydrogen bonds. The title compound, C13H15ClO, crystallize in orthorhombic space group Pca21, and has a nonplanar conformation. The phenyl ring and chloroacetaldehyde group are in cis positions. The cyclobutane ring is puckered, with a dihedral angle of 26.81 (13) C396
Since the discovery that the neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) can induce parkinsonian symptoms in primates including man (Burns et al. 1983; Davis et al. 1979 ) it has been suggested that environmental toxins may play a role in the aetiology and pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. The search for structural analogues of MPTP in the environment has identified several compounds such as herbicides (e.g. paraquat), alkaloids (e.g. 1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinolines) and b-carbolines. The neurotoxin 2, 3, belongs to the group of b-carbolines and bears striking similarities to MPTP, a neurotoxin that is widely being used to produce an animal model of Parkinson's disease. TaClo is readily formed under physiological conditions from the biogenic amine tryptamine (Ta) and trichloroacetaldehyde (chloral, Clo; Bringmann and Hille 1990) . Chloral can be formed in vivo following exposure to the industrial solvent trichloroethylene (TRI) . An association between the exposure to trichloroethylene and Parkinson's disease in humans has been observed (Kochen et al. 2003) .
In the liver, VC is metabolized by cytochrome P450 2E1 (CYP2E1) to the reactive intermediates chloroethylene oxide (CEO) and chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), which can bind to cellular macromolecules causing damage to DNA, including specific mutations in cancer-related genes such as ras and TP53 (ATSDR 2006) ; as a result, we have been able to demonstrate that VC-exposed workers have an increasing prevalence of circulating biomarkers for the protein products of these VC-induced mutant genes (i.e., mutant ras-p21 and mutant p53) with increasing cumulative exposure to VC (Smith et al. 1998; Li et al. 1998a) . CAA is further metabolized by aldehyde dehydrogenase 2 (ALDH2), and CEO is furthered metabolized by glutathione-S-transferases (GSTs) to yield non-genotoxic products for excretion (ATSDR 2006) . Thus, it is possible that individuals who have polymorphisms in the genes for the various enzymes involved in VC metabolism could have different levels of electrophilic, genotoxic intermediates despite similar levels of exposure. For example, individuals with high-activity variants of CYP2E1 and/or low-activity variants of ALDH2 and GSTs could have elevated CEO/ CAA, increased DNA damage and increased biomarkers of mutant ras-p21 and mutant p53. In fact, we have recently found evidence in a cohort of 211 French VC workers that individuals who have the high-activity CYP2E1 c2 allele or who are GSTM1 or GSTT1 null may be more likely to have one or both of these mutant biomarkers than individuals who have only the wild-type CYP2E1 c1 allele or who are wild-type for GSTM1 or GSTT1, respectively (Li et al. 2003 (Li et al. , 2005a .
The mouse c-Ki-ras protooncogene promoter contains a homopurine-homopyrimidine domain that exhibits S1 nuclease sensitivity in vitro. We have studied the structure of this DNA region in a supercoiled state using a number of chemical probes for non-B DNA conformations including diethyl pyrocarbonate, osmium tetroxide, chloroacetaldehyde, and dimethyl sulfate. The results demonstrate that two types of unusual DNA structures formed under different environmental conditions. A 27-bp homopurinehomopyrimidine mirror repeat adopts a triple-helical H-DNA conformation under mildly acidic conditions. This H-DNA seems to account for the Si hypersensitivity of the promoter in vitro, since the observed pattern of Si hypersensitivity at a single base level fits well with the H-DNA formation. Under conditions of neutral pH we have detected Z-DNA created by a (CG)5-stretch, located adjacent to the homopurine-homopyrimidine mirror repeat. The ability of the promoter DNA segment to form non-B structures has implications for models of gene regulation.
Cyclophosphamide (CP) and ifosfamide (IF) are isomeric oxazaphosphorine cytostatic drugs used widely in the chemotherapy of various cancers. CP was developed over 50 years ago as a innovative example of a pro-drug that might be transported to the tumor and then activated by tumor-specific enzymes, a strategy that had proven valuable for the treatment of prostate carcinoma with stilbestrol diphosphate [1] . High tumor expression and activity of phosphoramidase was the rational design principle [2] that lead to the incorporation of the highly cytotoxic nornitrogen mustard (NNM) into a stable and apparently inert oxazaphosphorine ring (Fig. 1A ). It soon transpired that NNM was generated only in trace amounts but rather CP was converted in the liver into a transported metabolite that could be readily taken up by tumors [3] . A somewhat complex hepatic metabolic scheme gradually unfolded with CP converted to 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide (4OHCP) [4] , which in turn taumomerized to aldophosphamide (AP) [5] that β-eliminated AC [6] [7] to yield phosphoramide mustard (PM) [7] [8] . This pathway can readily be reconciled with other observed metabolites of CP, such as 4-oxocyclophosphamide (4-ketocyclophosphamide; 4OCP) [9] , iminocyclophosphamide (ICP) [10] , and carboxyphosphamide (CXP) [11] (Fig.   1A ). Both AP [7] and PM [11] were postulated as transport forms of CP. Ifosfamide (IF) was developed a decade after CP [12] and its metabolic transformation was reported to bear similarities to its isomer CP (Fig. 1B) . Specifically, phenobarbital-induced rat liver microsomes converted IF to AC [7, 13] after the prior formation of 4-hydroxyifosfamide (4OHIF) [7] , which was later reported to be in equilibrium with its tautomer aldoifosfamide (AIF) [14] . However, a major metabolic pathway for IF was side-chain dealkylation to yield 4 2-and 3-dechloroethylifosfamide (2-DCIF and 3-DCIF), both in vitro [7] and in vivo [15] , together with 2-chloroacetaldehyde (CAL) [16] and 2-chloroethylamine (CEA) [17] [18] .
By using a gene-targeted random DNA adduction approach, we have recently shown that chloroacetaldehyde, a metabolite of vinyl chloride, induces mutations predominantly at cytosines under conditions in which both ethenoadenine (epsilon A) and ethenocytosine (epsilon C) are formed. Although the observed mutational specificity of epsilon C suggested that it was a noninstructional lesion, the high efficiency of mutagenesis and an apparent lack of SOS dependence were reminiscent of mispairing lesions. To obtain more direct evidence showing that epsilon C has properties of a noninstructional mutagenic lesion, we have examined the in vitro template properties of a single epsilon C residue at a unique position in a synthetic oligonucleotide. The oligonucleotide was constructed by use of the following steps: (a) in vitro treatment of the pentameric oligodeoxyribonucleotide TTCTT with chloroacetaldehyde to convert the central cytosine to ethenocytosine; (b) purification and characterization of TT epsilon CTT; and (c) ligation of purified TT epsilon CTT to two decamers to create a 25 nt long oligodeoxyribonucleotide with a centrally located epsilon C residue. The template characteristics of epsilon C were examined by the annealing of end-labeled primers to the purified epsilon C-containing oligonucleotide and primer elongation by Escherichia coli DNA polymerase I in the presence of one or more nucleotide precursors. The elongation products were analyzed by high-resolution gel electrophoresis followed by autoradiography and quantitated by computing densitometry.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Etheno(epsilon)-adducts such as 1,N(6)-ethenoadenine (epsilon A), 3,N(4)-ethenocytosine (epsilon C), N(2),3-ethenoguanine (N(2),3-epsilon G), and 1,N(2)-ethenoguanine (1,N(2)-epsilon G) are produced in cellular DNA by two independent pathways: (i) by reaction with oxidised metabolites of vinyl chloride, 2-chloroacetaldehyde and 2-chloroethylene oxide; (ii) by endogenous processes through the interaction of lipid peroxidation (LPO)-derived aldehydes and hydroxyalkenals. They have been found in DNA isolated from human and rodent tissues. However, the levels of adducts were significantly increased by cancer risk factors contributing to lipid peroxidation and oxidative stress. The highly mutagenic and genotoxic properties of epsilon-adducts have been established in vitro by analysing steady-state kinetics of primer extension assays and in vivo by site-specific mutagenesis in mammalian cells. Therefore, the repair processes eliminating exocyclic adducts from DNA should play a crucial role in maintaining the stability of genetic information. The epsilon-adducts are eliminated by the base excision repair (BER) pathway, with DNA glycosylases being the key enzymes of this pathway. They remove epsilon-adducts from DNA by hydrolysing the N-glycosidic bond between the damaged base and deoxyribose, leaving an abasic site in DNA. The ethenobase-DNA glycosylases have been identified and their enzymatic properties described. They are specific for a given epsilon-base although they can also excise different types of modified bases, such as alkylated purines, hypoxanthine and uracil. The fact that ethenoadducts are recognised and excised with high efficiency by various DNA glycosylases in vitro suggests that these enzymes may be responsible for repair of these mutagenic lesions in vivo, and thus constitute important contributors to genetic stability.
The structure and dynamics of Escherichia coli transcription elongation complex are now well documented. However, most of the studies have been conducted in vitro and frequently under artificial conditions that facilitate the biochemical characterization of the complex. Thus, little is known about relevance of these results for the regulatory aspects of transcription elongation inside the cell. Here, we describe the use of a single-strand-specific probe chloroacetaldehyde for in situ footprinting of E. coli elongation complex temporarily halted by a protein roadblock. The method provides valuable information on the dynamic features of transcriptionally engaged RNA polymerase within the cellular environment.
Abstract Some commercial batches of dichloroacetic acid (DCA) contain traces of chloral (trichloroacetaldehyde). Using such DCA to effect detritylation during solid-phase oligonucleotide synthesis results in the formation of a family of process impurities in which the atoms of chloral (Cl 3 CCHO) are incorporated between the 5′-oxygen and phosphorus atoms of an internucleotide linkage. The structure was elucidated by HPLC with UV and MS detection, digestion of the oligonucleotide, synthesis of model compounds, and 1 H and 31 P NMR spectroscopy. By understanding the chemistry behind its formation, we are now able to limit levels of this impurity in synthetic oligonucleotides by limiting chloral in DCA.
The use of sodium 1-(4-amino-5-mercapto-4 H -[1,2,4] triazol-3-yl) and heptadecane-1-sulfonate (2) as new precursors to synthesize some important biologically active heterocycles has been found to be effective. The reaction of 2 with carbon disulphide in pyridine and acid chlorides yielded the 1,2,4-triazole derivatives 3 , 4a and 4b .The condensation of 2 with appropriate aldehydes gave 5a-c which were cyclized by treating with thioglycollic acid to yield 6a-c . The reactions of 2 with phthalic anhydride and 4-methylbenzene-sulfonylchloride gave 7 and 8 . In addition, the reaction of 2 with chloroacetaldehyde, phenacyl bromide, urea and chloroacetyl chloride yielded 9 , 10 , 11 and 12 . At the same time, refluxing 2 with phenyl isothiocyanate gave 13 and 14 . All these products have antimicrobial activity and they can be used as surface active agents.
The roles of chloroethylene oxide (CEO) and chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) in carcinogenicity of vinyl chloride (VC) have been studied by comparing biological effects of VC exposure with those of 2,2'-dichlorodiethylether (bis(chloroethyl)ether, BCEE) as a metabolic precursor of CAA. Biological end-points investigated were covalent protein binding, nucleic acid (RNA and DNA) alkylation and the potency of the two chemicals to induce preneoplastic ATPase-deficient foci in rat liver. After exposure of rats to [1-14C]BCEE, BCEE derived radioactivity was bound to liver proteins. Analysis of hydrolysates of liver RNA and DNA gave no indication for the formation of either 7-N-(2-oxoethyl)guanine, 1,N6-ethenoadenine or 3,N4-ethenocytosine residues within the nucleic acids. After application of VC, BCEE or chloroethanol [CE), also a precursor of CAA) to young rats, only animals exposed to VC developed preneoplastic hepatocellular ATPase-deficient foci. From these investigations it is concluded, that CEO (which is not formed during metabolism of BCEE and CE), not CAA, is the ultimate carcinogenic principle in VC carcinogenicity.
The DNA repair protein O 6 -methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) protects from toxicity and mutations incurred following alkylating agents by removing O 6 -alkylguanine lesions. Using Mgmt−/− mice, we examined MGMT's role in protecting from in vivo mutations induced by three different alkylating agents, temozolomide (TMZ), 1,3-bis (2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU) and cyclophosphamide. Mutant frequencies were determined in the hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase gene of splenic T-lymphocytes from C57BL/6 mice (Mgmt+/+ and Mgmt−/−) following TMZ, BCNU or cyclophosphamide. Following TMZ, the mutation frequency was significantly greater in Mgmt−/− mice (5.5 and 9.8 × 10 −6 for 7 and 10 mg/kg TMZ, respectively) compared with vehicle-treated mice (1.0 × 10 −6 , P ≤ 0.05). In contrast, TMZ-induced mutations were not increased over vehicle in Mgmt+/+ mice. The mutation frequency of mice treated with BCNU (7.5 mg/kg) was the same regardless of Mgmt status. Similarly, pretreatment of Mgmt+/+ mice with 30 mg/kg O 6 -benzylguanine, a potent inactivator of MGMT, prior to BCNU (15 mg/kg) did not result in significantly more mutations than mice treated with BCNU alone. Following cyclophosphamide, mutation frequencies significantly increased from 1.8 × 10 −6 in control-treated mice to 12.9 × 10 −6 in Mgmt+/+ and 18.1 × 10 −6 in Mgmt−/− mice, although the difference in Mgmt−/− compared with Mgmt+/+ was not significant. Acrolein and chloroacetaldehyde, metabolites of cyclophosphamide, were not mutagenic in Mgmt+/+ and Mgmt−/− mice. These results demonstrate that MGMT significantly protects against in vivo TMZ-induced mutations and that MGMT deficiency does not result in greater mutation frequency following cyclophosphamide or BCNU compared with wild-type mice.
The paper concerns estimation of significance of di fferences of mutagenesis level between the wild-typ e strain (wt ) and its derivatives which differ in DNA repair ab ility, namely alkA and alkB strain, devoided AlkA glycosylase and AlkB dioxygenase activity, respectively . The strains were analyzed for their ability to rep air 1,N 6 -ethenoadenine (� A) ‐ chloroacetaldehyde adduct to DNA. The analysis was done using classical statistical and pattern r ecognition
2-Chloroethanol (2-CE) has been used on grapevines to accelerate grape growth, and its metabolite, chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), accumulated in the liver and blood from rats intoxicated with 2-CE. Chronic occupational injury might be a possible reason for the 2-CE intoxication. In this study, we used the in vitro and in vivo tests to examine the genotoxicity of 2-CE and CAA. First, 2-CE did not induce chromosome aberration formation in Chinese ovary hamster cells, but CAA did induce chromosome aberration formation, especially the chromosome gap-type aberration after S9 activation. Second, 2-CE at high doses (1/2 LD50), but not at low doses, induced peripheral blood micronucleus formation in mice. CAA induced micronucleus formation at low and high dosages (1/8-1/2 LD50). These results indicated that CAA plays an important role in 2-CE chronic intoxication, and the genotoxic mechanisms of CAA require further study.
Expanded-bed granular activated carbon (GAC) anaerobic reactor was applied to treat artificial wastewater which contains high concentration of chloroacetaldehyde as well as sodium acetate. Organic loadings were changed from 1.0 to 6.1g-CODcr·kg-1-GAC·d-1 by changing concentrations of organics (from 90 to 900 mg·l-1 for chloroacetaldehyde, and from 1,000 to 2,000 mg·l-1 for sodium acetate). Hydraulic retention time was changed from 2.2 to 1.1 days based on expanded-bed volume. The operation of the reactor was successfully started without any dilution of the wastewater and the reactor could respond without any deterioration of treatment efficiency to shock load by the adsorption ability of GAC used as attached medium. COD and chloroacetaldehyde removal efficiencies were kept more than 87% and 97% respectively. Biomass in the reactor was 114μgDNA·g-1-GAC, which corresponds to 2,000 mgVSS·l-1 based on the expanded-bed volume.
: We describe a rapid, sensitive method to determine brain adenosine content by HPLC. Adenosine is first reacted with chloroacetaldehyde to form fluorescent 1, N6-ethenoadenosine. The derivative is then separated from interfering compounds by HPLC on a C18 reverse-phase column and quantitated by fluorometry. We found that adenosine was rather uniformly distributed in nine brain regions of animals killed by microwave radiation. In contrast, there was an increase of adenosine in hippocampus, frontal cortex, and especially striatum of animals killed by decapitation. Moreover, adenosine content increased approximately 10-fold in the thalamus, mesencephalon, and pons-medulla if the animals were exposed to CO2 for 1 min before they were killed by microwave radiation. Our method should be a useful aid for providing new information about the metabolic and proposed transmitter roles of brain adenosine.
In cancer chemotherapy with ifosfamide the occurrence of a drug-related encephalopathy represents a severe adverse-effect of unknown origin. We found that the underlying mechanism resides in the mitochondrial toxicity of ifosfamide metabolites. The electron accepting drug methylene blue can substitute for the demonstrated flavoprotein deficiency and its administration leads to resolution of the encephalopathy in patients. The prophylactic administration of methylene blue is equally effective via another principal mechanism, namely oxidation of the excessive quantity of NADH formed during ifosfamide metabolism. The inhibition by methylene blue of multiple amine oxidase activities also prevents formation of the neurotoxic chloroacetaldehyde from ifosfamide-derived chloroethyl amine. Thus, methylene blue exhibits several synergistic modes of actions which enable the dose-limiting neurotoxicity of alkylating chemotherapy with ifosfamide in cancer patients to be overcome
SummaryIfosfamide, like cyclophosphamide, belongs to the group of oxazaphosphorines. Regarding the profile of action of both compounds, there are important differences:Chemical structure: One of the two 2-chloroethyl groups of the exocyclic nitrogen mustard moeity of cyclophosphamide is transposed in ifosfamide onto the cyclic phos-phamide nitrogen of the oxazaphosphorine ring.Pharmacodynamics: Ifosfamide differs from cyclophosphamide in the behavior of the time constants for the curative and lethal action. Its cumulation of curative action is increased and that of the toxic action is reduced. Therefore, fractionated dosage regimens or continuous infusion over 1–5 days increase the tolerability and remission rates with ifosfamide.Metabolism: Like cyclophosphamide, ifosfamide is also ‘activated’ in the liver. As with cyclophosphamide, the basis of cytotoxic specificity and cancerotoxic selectivity is the oxidized oxazaphosphorine ring hydroxylated at the carbon 4 atom. ‘Side chain oxidation’ with formation of chloroacetaldehyde plays a more important role with ifosfamide than with cyclophosphamide.Pharmacokinetics: The spontaneous toxification of activated ifosfamide is slower than that of cyclophosphamide, and the alkylation rate of the end product of ifosfamide toxification is much slower than that of nitrogen mustard phosphoric acid diamide which is the toxification product of cyclophosphamide.Pharmacotherapeutic characteristics: 4-hydroxy-ifosfamide has the highest cytotoxic specificity of all oxazaphosphorine metabolites. Therapeutic comparisons conducted with optimal dosages confirm the superior therapeutic range of ifosfamide in numerous experimental animal tumors.Detoxification: The wider therapeutic range of ifosfamide is based on the reduction in toxicity by dose fractionation. A further increase in selectivity was made possible by an effective uroprotector (mesna) which obviates the therapy-limiting urotoxic side-effects, especially hemorrhagic cystitis.
Oxidative stress and certain environmental carcinogens, e.g. vinyl chloride and its metabolite chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), introduce promutagenic exocyclic adducts into DNA, among them 1,N 6 -ethenoadenine (eA), 3,N 4 -ethenocytosine (eC) and N 2 ,3-ethenoguanine (eG). We studied sequence-specific interaction of the vinyl-chloride metabolite CAA with human p53 gene exons 5–8, using DNA Polymerase Fingerprint Analysis (DPFA), and identified sites of the highest sensi tivity. CAA-induced DNA damage was more extensive in p53 regions which revealed secondary structure perturbations, and were localized in regions of mutation hot-spots. These perturbations inhibited DNA synthesis on undamaged template. We also studied the repair kinetics of CAA-induced DNA lesions in E. coli at nucleotide resolution level. A plasmid bearing full length cDNA of human p53 gene was modified in vitro with 360 mM CAA and transformed into E. coli DH5α strain, in which the adaptive response system had been induced by MMS treatment before the cells were made competent. Following transformation, plasmids were re-isolated from transformed cultures 35, 40, 50 min and 1–24 h after transformation, and further subjected to LM-PCR, using ANPG, MUG and Fpg glycosylases to identify the sites of DNA damage. In adaptive response-induced E. coli cells the majority of DNA lesions recognized by ANPG glycosylase were removed from plasmid DNA within 35 min, while MUG glycosylase excised base modifications only within 50 min, both in a sequence-dependent manner. In non-adapted cells resolution of plasmid topological forms was perturbed, suggesting inhibition of one or more bacterial topoisomerases by unrepaired e-adducts. We also observed delayed consequences of DNA modifica tion with CAA, manifesting as secondary DNA breaks, which appeared 3 h after transformation of damaged DNA into E. coli, and were repaired after 24 h.
The DNA repair protein O 6 -methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) protects from toxicity and mutations incurred following alkylating agents by removing O 6 -alkylguanine lesions. Using MgmtÀ/À mice, we examined MGMT's role in protecting from in vivo mutations induced by three different alkylating agents, temozolomide (TMZ), 1,3-bis (2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU) and cyclophosphamide. Mutant frequencies were determined in the hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase gene of splenic T-lymphocytes from C57BL/6 mice (Mgmtþ/þ and MgmtÀ/À) following TMZ, BCNU or cyclophosphamide. Following TMZ, the mutation frequency was significantly greater in MgmtÀ/À mice (5.5 and 9.8 Â 10 À6 for 7 and 10 mg/kg TMZ, respectively) compared with vehicle-treated mice (1.0 Â 10 À6 , P 0.05). In contrast, TMZ-induced mutations were not increased over vehicle in Mgmtþ/þ mice. The mutation frequency of mice treated with BCNU (7.5 mg/kg) was the same regardless of Mgmt status. Similarly, pretreatment of Mgmtþ/þ mice with 30 mg/kg O 6 -benzylguanine, a potent inactivator of MGMT, prior to BCNU (15 mg/kg) did not result in significantly more mutations than mice treated with BCNU alone. Following cyclophosphamide, mutation frequencies significantly increased from 1.8 Â 10 À6 in control-treated mice to 12.9 Â 10 À6 in Mgmtþ/þ and 18.1 Â 10 À6 in MgmtÀ/À mice, although the difference in MgmtÀ/À compared with Mgmtþ/þ was not significant. Acrolein and chloroacetaldehyde, metabolites of cyclophosphamide, were not mutagenic in Mgmtþ/þ and MgmtÀ/À mice. These results demonstrate that MGMT significantly protects against in vivo TMZ-induced mutations and that MGMT deficiency does not result in greater mutation frequency following cyclophosphamide or BCNU compared with wild-type mice.
In contrast to TMZ and BCNU, the role of MGMT in protecting from the oxazaphosphorine, cyclophosphamide is less clear. Cyclophosphamide is metabolized into phosphoramide mustard and acrolein, both of which form adducts on DNA (18) . Although phosphoramide mustard is thought to produce an antitumor effect by causing interstrand cross-links, acrolein is thought to contribute to bladder toxicity and carcinogenesis. Through a minor pathway (,10%), cyclophosphamide can also undergo N-dechloroethylation to produce chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) (18, 19) , a neuro-and nephrotoxic by-product. Recent evidence demonstrates that cells overexpressing MGMT are less sensitive to the toxic and mutagenic effects of acrolein (20, 21) that suggests that acrolein may be producing lesions that are recognized and repaired by MGMT.
2-Chloroethanol (2-CE) has been used on grapevines to accelerate grape growth, and its metabolite, chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), accumulated in the liver and blood from rats intoxicated with 2-CE. Chronic occupational injury might be a possible reason for the 2-CE intoxication. In this study, we used the in vitro and in vivo tests to examine the genotoxicity of 2-CE and CAA. First, 2-CE did not induce chromosome aberration formation in Chinese ovary hamster cells, but CAA did induce chromosome aberration formation, especially the chromosome gap-type aberration after S9 activation. Second, 2-CE at high doses (1/2 LD 50 ), but not at low doses, induced peripheral blood micronucleus formation in mice. CAA induced micronucleus formation at low and high dosages (1/8-1/2 LD 50 ). These results indicated that CAA plays an important role in 2-CE chronic intoxication, and the genotoxic mechanisms of CAA require further study.
Oxidative stress and certain environmental carcinogens, e.g. vinyl chloride and its metabolite chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), introduce promutagenic exocyclic adducts into DNA, among them 1,N 6 -ethenoadenine (εA), 3,N 4 -ethenocytosine (εC) and N 2 ,3-ethenoguanine (εG). We studied sequence-specific interaction of the vinyl-chloride metabolite CAA with human p53 gene exons 5-8, using DNA Polymerase Fingerprint Analysis (DPFA), and identified sites of the highest sensitivity. CAA-induced DNA damage was more extensive in p53 regions which revealed secondary structure perturbations, and were localized in regions of mutation hot-spots. These perturbations inhibited DNA synthesis on undamaged template. We also studied the repair kinetics of CAA-induced DNA lesions in E. coli at nucleotide resolution level. A plasmid bearing full length cDNA of human p53 gene was modified in vitro with 360 mM CAA and transformed into E. coli DH5α strain, in which the adaptive response system had been induced by MMS treatment before the cells were made competent. Following transformation, plasmids were re-isolated from transformed cultures 35, 40, 50 min and 1-24 h after transformation, and further subjected to LM-PCR, using ANPG, MUG and Fpg glycosylases to identify the sites of DNA damage. In adaptive response-induced E. coli cells the majority of DNA lesions recognized by ANPG glycosylase were removed from plasmid DNA within 35 min, while MUG glycosylase excised base modifications only within 50 min, both in a sequence-dependent manner. In non-adapted cells resolution of plasmid topological forms was perturbed, suggesting inhibition of one or more bacterial topoisomerases by unrepaired ε-adducts. We also observed delayed consequences of DNA modification with CAA, manifesting as secondary DNA breaks, which appeared 3 h after transformation of damaged DNA into E. coli, and were repaired after 24 h.
The efficacy of ifosfamide (IFO), an antineoplastic drug, is severely limited by a high incidence of nephrotoxicity of unknown etiology. We hypothesized that inhibition of complex I (C-I) by chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), a metabolite of IFO, is the chief cause of nephrotoxicity, and that agmatine (AGM), which we found to augment mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation and beta-oxidation, would prevent nephrotoxicity. Our model system was isolated mitochondria obtained from the kidney cortex of rats treated with IFO or IFO + AGM. Oxidative phosphorylation was determined with electron donors specific to complexes I, II, III, or IV (C-I, C-II, C-III, or C-IV, respectively). A parallel study was done with (13)C-labeled pyruvate to assess metabolic dysfunction. Ifosfamide treatment significantly inhibited oxidative phosphorylation with only C-I substrates. Inhibition of C-I was associated with a significant elevation of [NADH], depletion of [NAD], and decreased flux through pyruvate dehydrogenase and the TCA cycle. However, administration of AGM with IFO increased [cyclic AMP (cAMP)] and prevented IFO-induced inhibition of C-I. In vitro studies with various metabolites of IFO showed that only CAA inhibited C-I, even with supplementation with 2-mercaptoethane sulfonic acid. Following IFO treatment daily for 5 days with 50 mg/kg, the level of CAA in the renal cortex was approximately 15 micromol/L. Taken together, these observations support the hypothesis that CAA is accumulated in renal cortex and is responsible for nephrotoxicity. AGM may be protective by increasing tissue [cAMP], which phosphorylates NADH:oxidoreductase. The current findings may have an important implication for the prevention of IFO-induced nephrotoxicity and/or mitochondrial diseases secondary to defective C-I.
Abstract ::: Naturally occurring contiguous deoxyguanine residues and their surrounding sequences in the chicken adult beta A globin gene promoter were analyzed for their inherent potential to adopt non-B DNA structures in supercoiled plasmid DNA. In particular, cationic effects on structure were studied by treating the supercoiled plasmid DNA harboring the chicken adult beta A globin 5' flanking sequence with an unpaired DNA base-specific probe, chloroacetaldehyde in the presence of either Mg++, Cu++, Zn++, Ca++ or Co++ ions. The chloroacetaldehyde-reactive bases were mapped at a single base resolution by a chemical cleavage method that specifically cleaves DNA at the chloroacetaldehyde modified sites. These experiments revealed that while Mg++ and Ca++ ions induce a dG.dG.dC triple helix structure at the contiguous dG residues, Zn++, Cu++ and Co++ ions induce yet another structure at the direct repeats immediately 5' of the dG residues. When Mg++ and Zn++ ions are both present, Zn++ inhibits the dG.dG.dC triplex at the contiguous dG residues and induces a particular non-B DNA structure at the adjacent direct repeats. The specific induction of non-B DNA structures by metal ions at the two adjacent sequences within the promoter region may be of biological significance.
We investigated the cytochrome P-450-dependent metabolism of 1,1-dichloroethylene (DCE) by human lung and liver microsomes and compared the results from analogous experiments in mice. Metabolites were identified by HPLC analysis of their glutathione conjugates and/or hydrolyzed products and were detected by using [14C]DCE. The role of human CYP2E1 in the metabolic reactions was examined by comparing p -nitrophenol hydroxylase activities with levels of metabolites formed and by using the CYP2E1-selective inhibitor diallyl sulfone. The major products formed in microsomal incubations containing NADPH were the DCE-epoxide-derived glutathione conjugates 2-( S -glutathionyl)acetyl glutathione and 2- S -glutathionyl acetate. Lower levels of the acetal of 2,2-dichloroacetaldehyde were also detected. In lung samples from eight patients, the amounts of epoxide-derived conjugates formed ranged from 15.6 ± 4.23 to 34.9 ± 12.75 pmol/mg protein/min. The levels in murine lung were higher at 40.0 ± 3.8 pmol/mg protein/min. In liver samples from five patients, conjugate levels ranged from 46.5 ± 8.3 to 240.0 ± 10.5 pmol/mg protein/min, whereas levels in murine liver were 83.0 ± 6.2 pmol/mg protein/min. Conjugate levels formed in human liver correlated with the relative levels of p -nitrophenol hydroxylase activity present, but this relationship was equivocal in human lung. Diallyl sulfone inhibited the formation of the glutathione conjugates (20–65%) in liver samples from all four patients, whereas only one of five human lung samples exhibited this inhibition (27%). These results demonstrated that the DCE-epoxide is a major metabolite formed by human microsomes and is mediated by CYP2E1 in liver and in some individuals in lung.
Ifosfamide nephrotoxicity is attributed to the formation of a toxic metabolite, chloroacetaldehyde, via N-dechloroethylation, a reaction that is purportedly catalyzed by CYP3A and CYP2B6. Because allelic variants of CYP3A5 are associated with polymorphic expression of microsomal CYP3A5 in human liver and kidneys, we hypothesized that ifosfamide N-dechloroethylation depends on CYP3A5 genotype. We compared ifosfamide N-dechloroethylation activity in cDNA-expressed CYP3A4 and CYP3A5. Ifosfamide N-dechloroethylation was also assessed in liver (N = 20) and kidney (N = 21) microsomes from human donors with different CYP3A5 genotypes. Ifosfamide N-dechloroethylation was catalyzed by recombinant CYP3A5 at a rate comparable with recombinant CYP3A4. In human liver microsomes matched for CYP3A4 protein content, N-dechloroethylation was more than 2-fold higher in that from donors carrying CYP3A5*1 allele that express CYP3A5 relative to that from donors homozygous for the mutant CYP3A5*3. Correlation analysis revealed that ifosfamide N-dechloroethylation was significantly associated with CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 protein concentration but not with age, sex, or CYP2B6 protein concentration. In hepatic microsomes not expressing CYP3A5 protein, ifosfamide N-dechloroethylation was inhibited 53 to 61% and 0 to 3% by monoclonal antibodies specific for CYP3A4/5 or CYP2B6, respectively. Ifosfamide N-dechloroethylation was not detected in renal microsomes obtained from CYP3A5*3/*3 donors. In contrast, it was readily measurable in microsomes isolated from four kidneys of CYP3A5*1 carriers, which was almost completely inhibited by the CYP3A inhibitor ketoconazole. CYP2B6 protein could not be detected in this panel of human renal microsomes. In conclusion, CYP3A5*1 genotype is associated with higher rates of ifosfamide N-dechloroethylation in human liver and kidneys.
The efficacy of ifosfamide (IFO), an antineoplastic drug, is severely limited by a high incidence of nephrotoxicity of unknown etiology. We hypothesized that inhibition of complex I (C-I) by chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), a metabolite of IFO, is the chief cause of nephrotoxicity, and that agmatine (AGM), which we found to augment mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation and B-oxidation, would prevent nephrotoxicity. Our model system was isolated mitochondria obtained from the kidney cortex of rats treated with IFO or IFO + AGM.
Ifosfamide nephrotoxicity is attributed to the formation of a toxic metabolite, chloroacetaldehyde, via N-dechloroethylation, a reaction that is purportedly catalyzed by CYP3A and CYP2B6. Because allelic variants of CYP3A5 are associated with polymorphic expression of microsomal CYP3A5 in human liver and kidneys, we hypothesized that ifosfamide N-dechloroethylation depends on CYP3A5 genotype. We compared ifosfamide N-dechloroethylation activity in cDNA-expressed CYP3A4 and CYP3A5. Ifosfamide Ndechloroethylation was also assessed in liver (N ‫؍‬ 20) and kidney (N ‫؍‬ 21) microsomes from human donors with different CYP3A5 genotypes. Ifosfamide N-dechloroethylation was catalyzed by recombinant CYP3A5 at a rate comparable with recombinant CYP3A4. In human liver microsomes matched for CYP3A4 protein content, N-dechloroethylation was more than 2-fold higher in that from donors carrying CYP3A5*1 allele that express CYP3A5 relative to that from donors homozygous for the mutant CYP3A5*3. Correlation analysis revealed that ifosfamide N-dechloroethylation was significantly associated with CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 protein concentration but not with age, sex, or CYP2B6 protein concentration. In hepatic microsomes not expressing CYP3A5 protein, ifosfamide N-dechloroethylation was inhibited 53 to 61% and 0 to 3% by monoclonal antibodies specific for CYP3A4/5 or CYP2B6, respectively. Ifosfamide N-dechloroethylation was not detected in renal microsomes obtained from CYP3A5*3/*3 donors. In contrast, it was readily measurable in microsomes isolated from four kidneys of CYP3A5*1 carriers, which was almost completely inhibited by the CYP3A inhibitor ketoconazole. CYP2B6 protein could not be detected in this panel of human renal microsomes. In conclusion, CYP3A5*1 genotype is associated with higher rates of ifosfamide N-dechloroethylation in human liver and kidneys.
4-Chlorobenzo[h]quinolin-2(1H)-one (4) and its 4-sulfanyl derivative 6 were smoothly obtained via chlorination, hydrolysis, and sulfurization starting with 4-hydroxybenzo-[h]quinolin-2(1H)-one (1). Heterocyclization reaction of compound 6 with chloroacetaldehyde diethylacetal, phenacylbromide, chloroacetonitrile, ethyl chloroacetate, and bromomalononitrile under phase transfer catalysis (PTC) conditions was described affording benzo[h]thieno[3,2-c]quinolinones 7–9 , 11, 12, and 14. The PTC-nucleophilic substitution of compound 4 with malononitrile gave quinolinylmalononitrile 15, which subsequently cyclized with sulfur/triethylamine (TEA) to afford benzo[h]thieno[2,3-c]quinolinone 16. The PTC reaction of compound 6 with CS 2 and malononitrile gave benzo[h]thiopyrano[3,2-c]quinolinone 18. Similarly, cyclization of compound 4 with thiosalicylic acid furnished benzo[h]thiochromeno[3,2-c]quinolinedione 20. Thermal condensation of compound 6 with ethyl 2-cyano-3-ethoxyacrylate or ethyl 2-cyano-3,3-di(methylsul...
Abstract Under superhelical stress, oligopurine-oligopyrimidine mirror-repeat sequences are able to adopt H -DNA conformations where a triple-helical and a single-stranded structure co-exist. We have previously shown that a benzo[e]pyridonindole derivative (BePI), an antitumor drug interacting more tightly with triplex than with duplex DNA, strongly stabilizes intermolecular triple helices formed upon binding of homopyrimidine oligonucleotides to the major groove of double-stranded DNA at oligopurine-oligopyrimidine sequences. Here we show that an intramolecular triple helix is also strongly stabilized by this ligand. In vitro elongation performed by different DNA polymerases (bacteriophage T7, Escherichia coli or Taq polymerase) could be irreversibly inhibited by the H -DNA structure in the presence of BePI. A mirror-repeat polypurine-polypyrimidine sequence inserted between the E. coli β-lactamase gene (conferring ampicillin resistance) and its bla promoter strongly inhibited transcription of the β-lactamase gene in vivo . In the absence of supercoiling, transition to the H -conformation did not occur, but BePI stabilized the H -DNA structure induced by supercoiling as shown by chemical probes (chloroacetaldehyde). The results presented here open a new field of investigation for antitumor agents targeted to a novel class of genetic structures able to regulate gene expression.
OBJECTIVE ::: To establish a liquid-liquid extraction and gas chromatography method for the determination of trichloroacetaldehyde in drinking water. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Chromatography parameters and extraction parameters, such as extraction solvent, salting out reagents, internal standards and pH were tested and selected. Using the optimized parameters, methods validation and comparison with the national standard examination method was also conducted. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Employing the optimized extraction and instrumental analytic parameters, good correlation coefficient was obtained in the linear range of 0.20-20.0 μg/L, with r greater than 0.999. The methods detection limit was 0.030 μg/L. When spiked concentration was 1.0 μg/L for pure water and tap water, the recoveries were 94.8% and 93.7%, respectively, and relative standard deviation was 2.9% and 3.4%, respectively. When spiked concentration was 16.0 μg/L for pure water and tap water, the recoveries were both 101% and relative standard deviation was 1.0% and 1.3%, respectively. Paired samples t test showed that the result obtained with this method were generally lower than that acquired from the national standard examination method. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: This method is sensitive and accurate, and it is suitable for the determination of trichloroaldehyde in drinking water.
In drinking water disinfection, switching from free chlorine to alternative chemical disinfectants such as monochloramine may result in the formation of different classes of toxic disinfection byproducts (DBPs). Haloacetonitriles (HANs) and haloacetamides (HAMs) are two currently unregulated nitrogen-containing DBP (N-DBP) groups commonly found in water disinfected with monochloramine that have been shown to be more cyto- and genotoxic than regulated DBPs. For the first time, this study confirms the formation of HAN and HAM dominant species found in disinfected water, dichloroacetonitrile and dichloroacetamide, from the reaction between monochloramine and dichloroacetaldehyde via the aldehyde reaction pathway. Results from experiments with natural water treated with labeled 15N-monochloramine confirmed the relevance of the aldehyde pathway. Monochloramine reacted quickly with dichloroacetaldehyde reaching equilibrium with the carbinolamine 2,2-dichloro-1-(chloroamino)ethanol (K1 = 1.87 × 104 M–1 s–1). The...
9 the starting material 2,6-diamino-2,3-dihydropyrimidin-4(1H)-one (2) was condensed with chloroacetaldehyde (3) in the presence of NaOAc in water to provide the intermediate 2-amino-3,7-dihydro-4H-pyrrolo [2,3-d] pyrimidin-4-one (4). Chlorination of 4 in POCl3 using N,N-dimethylaniline and triethylbenzylammonium chloride (TEBAC) as catalysts afforded 4-chloro-7H-pyrrolo [2,3-d] pyrimidin-2-amine (5). 5 was first benzyl-protected, and then underwent a nucleophilic reaction with 4-hydroxy-3,5-dimethylbenzonitrile (7) to give intermediate 8. 8 passed through a Schiemann reaction in 60% HF-pyridine solution to supply the key intermediate 9. At last, 9 underwent another nucleophilic reaction and subsequent deprotection to afford RDEA427 (1). In the above synthesis route of RDEA427, obvious disadvantages exist as follows: 1) the overall yield is extremely low; 2) the route contains conditions under high temperature heating or rather low temperature cooling, which is very energy consuming; 3) the extremely toxic HF-pyridine solution and explosive t-butylnitrite were utilized, which was not suitable for large-scale industrialization; 4) silica gel chromatography was employed in the latter six steps to obtain the desired products, which is less environment-friendly and uneconomic for quantity production. Therefore, we became greatly interested in designing a more practical, more environment-friendly synthetic approach with improved total yield.
Adenosine content in the samples was analyzed by HPLC coupled to a spectrofluorometric detector with an excitation wavelength of 270 nm and an emission wavelength of 394 nm. 14 Adenosine was detected as a fluorescent derivative ethenoadenosine after mixing with chloroacetaldehyde. A Nucleosil C18 column (Waters) with particle size of 3.5 m was used. The mobile phase was 50 mmol/L acetate buffer, pH 5, with 5% acetonitrile and 1 mmol/L 1-octanesulfonic acid sodium salt.
Several mechanisms have been suggested to explain cognitive impairment associated with chemotherapy, including indirect chemical toxicity and oxidative damage, direct injury to neurons, inflammation, or induction of autoimmune responses (6). Studies of cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and 5FU indicated that toxicity resulted from metabolites of cyclophosphamide, such as acrolein or phosphoramide mustard (7), which induce lipid peroxidation by reducing antioxidant activity in erythrocytes, or 2-chloroacetaldehyde, which can deplete cerebral glutathione (8). Direct neurotoxicity of 5FU might occur via its monofluorinated metabolites (9). The overall effect is to reduce cellular resistance to oxidative stress which can damage the blood-brain barrier and thus allow the entry of possible neurotoxic molecules into the brain (10).
Abstract In order to determine whether vinyl chloride yields chloroethylene oxide in vivo, the biogenesis of the various urinary S-containing metabolites in rats has been investigated. N-Acetyl-S-(2-hydroxyethyl)cysteine is a major vinyl chloride metabolite in rats, but according to the method of protective esterification that is used, so either N-acetyl-S-(2-chloroethyl)cysteine or N-acetyl-S-(2-hydroxyethyl)cysteine may be isolated from the body fluids. N-Acetyl-S-vinylcysteine is a second related metabolite. These S-containing vinyl chloride metabolites are not mutagenic in S. typhimurium. Neutral methanol methylates N-acetyl-S-(2-hydroxyethyl)cysteine. N-Acetyl-S-(2-methoxyethyl)cysteine plus N-acetyl-S-vinylcysteine degrade to give the volatile S-(2-methoxyethyl)(prop-1 or 2-enyl)sulphide. Administration of several vinyl chloride metabolites and closely related compounds to rats shows that chloroacetaldehyde and S-(carboxymethyl)cysteine, but not chloroacetic acid, lie on a pathway or pathways connecting vinyl chloride with thiodiglycollic acid. The fact (a) that chloroacetaldehyde affords both thiodiglycollic acid and N-acetyl-S-(2-hydroxyethyl)cysteine in the animal and (b) that S-(carboxymethyl)cysteine has been identified amongst the hydrolytic products from an hepatic extract prepared from vinyl chloride-treated animals is consistent with the formation of chloroacetaldehyde, and with the reaction of chloroethylene oxide or chloroacetaldehyde with glutathione in the presence of a glutathione S-epoxide transferase to give the identified S-containing metabolites.
Abstract Preparation of the unknown title compound has been achieved by condensation of 2-amino-3-hydroxy-pyridine with chloroacetaldehyde. Activation by the free phenolic hydroxyl allows preferential nitration of the pyridine ring, in marked contrast to the behavior of the related ethers which suffer electrophilic substitution on the imidazole moiety, as usual in the series.
The N,O-acetal and N,O-ketal derivatives (oxazolidinones) formed from proline, and aldehydes or ketones are well-known today, and they are detectable in reaction mixtures involving proline catalysis, where they have been considered ‘parasitic dead ends’. We disclose results of experiments performed in the early 1970's, and we describe more recent findings about the isolation, characterization, and reactions of the oxazolidinone derived from proline and cyclohexanone. This oxazolidinone reacts (THF, room temperature) with the electrophiles β-nitrostyrene and chloral (=trichloroacetaldehyde), to give the Michael and aldol adduct, respectively, after aqueous workup (Scheme 5). The reactions occur even at −75° when catalyzed with bases such as 1,8-diazabicyclo[5.4.0]undec-7-ene (DBU) or EtN(i-Pr)2 (DIPEA) (10%; Table 1). It is shown by NMR (Figs. 1 and 3) and IR analysis (Figs. 2 and 4) that the primarily detectable product (before hydrolysis) of the reaction with the nitro-olefin is again an oxazolidinone. When dissolved in hydroxylic solvents such as MeOH, ‘hexafluoroisopropanol’ ((CF3)2CHOH; HFIP), AcOH, CF3COOH, or in LiBr-saturated THF, the ring of the oxazolidinone from cyclohexanone and proline opens up to the corresponding iminium ion (Tables 2–4), and when treated with strong bases such as DBU (in (D8)THF) the enamino-carboxylate derived from proline and cyclohexanone is formed (Scheme 8). Thus, the two hitherto putative participants (iminium ion and enamine) of the catalytic cycle (Scheme 9) have been characterized for the first time. The commonly accepted mechanism of the stereoselective C,C- or C,X-bond-forming step (i.e., A–D) of this cycle is discussed and challenged by thoughts about an alternative model with a pivotal role of oxazolidinones in the regio- and diastereoselective formation of the intermediate enamino acid (by elimination) and in the subsequent reaction with an electrophile (by trans-addition with lactonization; Schemes 11–14). The stereochemical bias between endo- and exo-space of the bicyclo[3.3.0]octane-type oxazolidinone structure (Figs. 5 and 6) is considered to possibly be decisive for the stereochemical course of events. Finally, the remarkable consistency, with which the diastereotopic Re-face of the double bond of pyrrolidino-enamines (derived from proline) is attacked by electrophiles (Schemes 1 and 15), and the likewise consistent reversal to the Si-face with bulky (Aryl)2C-substituents on the pyrrolidine ring (Scheme 16) are discussed by invoking stereoelectronic assistance from the lone pair of pyramidalized enamine N-atoms.
The chlorinated acetaldehydes, chloral hydrate (CH) and 2-chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), have been identified as chlorination by-products in finished drinking water supplies. Although both chemicals are genotoxic, their potential for carcinogenicity had not been adequately explored. The studies reported here are chronic bioassays conducted with male B6C3F1 mice exposed to levels of 1 g/liter CH and 0.1 g/liter CAA via the drinking water for 104 weeks. Distilled water (H2O) served as the untreated control and dichloroacetic acid (DCA; 0.5 g/liter), another chlorine disinfection by-product, was included. The mean daily ingested doses were approximately 166 mg/kg/day for CH, 17 mg/kg/day for CAA, and 93 mg/kg/day for DCA. Evaluations included mortality, body weight, organ weights, gross pathology, and histopathology. The primary target organ was the liver as the organ weights and pathological changes in the other organs (spleen, kidneys, and testes) were comparable between the treated groups and the H2O control group. Liver weights were increased for all three test chemicals at the terminal euthanasia with the greatest increase seen in the CH and DCA groups. Hepatocellular necrosis was induced by all three test chemicals, and it was also most prevalent and severe in the CH and DCA groups. A significant increase in the prevalence of liver tumors was seen for all three chemicals. The strongest response was with DCA, in which 63% of the 104-week survivors had hepatocellular carcinomas (carcinomas) and 42% possessed hepatocellular adenomas (adenomas) and the combined prevalence for carcinomas plus adenoma was 75%. The corresponding prevalence rate for carcinomas, adenomas, and combined tumors were 46, 29, and 71%; 31, 8, and 38%; and 10, 5, and 15% for CH, CAA, and H2O, respectively. In addition to the tumors we evaluated the prevalence of a possible preneoplastic lesion, the hepatocellular hyperplastic nodule (nodules), a lesion which occurred in all three treated groups but not in the H2O group.
Analysis of endogenous nucleotides in biologic media is hampered by rapid degradation and low final concentrations that are difficult to detect. A reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC) technique is described that efficiently detects a stable fluorescence derivative of adenosine 5'-diphosphoribose (ADPR), 1,N6-etheno-ADPR (epsilon-ADPR), at low femtomolar concentration range in vascular tissue superfusates. epsilon-ADPR was formed by the reaction of ADPR with chloroacetaldehyde at 80 degrees C and pH 4.0. Gradient elution with 0.1 M KH2PO4 (pH 6.0), increasing methanol (0-35% over 18 min), and a 25-cm by 4.5-mm (5 microm) silica ODS-AM column were employed. epsilon-ADPR was detected by fluorescence at an excitation wavelength of 230 nm and an emission wavelength of 410 nm. The detection sensitivity for epsilon-ADPR was approximately 10 fmol. Linearity of the HPLC detection method was demonstrated in the range from 0.0125 to 1 pmol epsilon-ADPR. The method was validated in terms of within-day and between-day reproducibility of retention times and peak areas of standard nucleotide. Matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry measurements confirmed the presence of an etheno ring after reaction of ADPR with chloroacetaldehyde. The method was applied to quantitate the overflow of ADPR upon electrical field stimulation (8 Hz, 0.3 ms, 15 V, 1-2 min) of both canine and guinea-pig isolated mesenteric artery segments.
The invention discloses a preparation method of amino aminoacetaldehyde dimethyl acetal, comprising steps of firstly adding chloroacetaldehyde dimethyl acetal and methyl alcohol in a pressure reaction kettle, mixing them uniformly; then adding liquid ammonia, heating up to 150 degrees centigrade for high pressure reaction; adding intermediate materials into a concentration kettle, carrying out distillation several times, reducing the pressure of distillation each time until the methyl alcohol is recovered successfully, and centrifugally filtering the solution; adding sodium hydroxide in the centrifugal liquid to regulate its Ph value; conducting rectification and extraction dehydration under a normal pressure, and carrying out a secondary rectification after purification, maintaining the secondary rectification as a pressure reduced rectification to ensure safety until qualified distillate is collected, thereby obtaining the product amino aminoacetaldehyde dimethyl acetal. The preparation method is simple in process and is applicable to industrialization, with high product purity.
Diadenosine 5',5'"-p1,p4-tetraphosphate (Ap4A) was converted with chloroacetaldehyde to the fluorescent di-1,N6-ethenoadenosine derivative within 60 min at 80 degrees C. It was separated by reversed-phase HPLC and detected fluorimetrically (excitation and emission wavelengths of 275 and 410 nm, respectively). The detection limit of Ap4A was ca. 0.2 microgram/ml in plasma when 10 microliters of the sample was applied to the column. The rate of degradation of Ap4A added to whole blood (5 micrograms/ml) was examined using this method. Half-lives (means +/- S.E., n = 3) were 0.88 +/- 0.30 min (in rat blood), 13.7 +/- 3.6 min (in dog blood) and 17.2 +/- 1.4 min (in human blood). A marked species difference in the degradation rate of Ap4A in blood was observed.
A fluorometric method based on the measurement of two nucleobase pairs of guanine-cytosine and adenine-thymine was developed for the accurate quantification of double-stranded DNA. Two fluorescence reactions with phenylglyoxal and chloroacetaldehyde are utilized for detection of the guanine and adenine moieties in DNA, respectively. The optimized conditions of the respective reactions permit quantitative determination of DNA at concentrations as low as 0.15μg ml-1. The DNA-content values determined for five commercial DNA preparations were 80-103% of their actual weights.
The effect of methylene blue on isolated rat liver mitochondria in the presence and absence of chloroacetaldehyde was investigated. Fatty acid oxidation was inhibited by chloroacetaldehyde and subsequently stimulated by methylene blue. Assessment of tightly coupled mitochondria revealed decreasing respiratory control ratios induced by increasing concentrations of methylene blue and methylene blue provoked mitochondrial swelling. In uncoupled mitochondria, methylene blue promoted a concentration-dependent stimulation of respiration. These findings provide evidence that methylene blue, the redox dye currently used as an antidote for encephalopathy associated with alkylating chemotherapy, uncouples oxidative phosphorylation and acts as an electron transfer mediator to stimulate mitochondrial respiration.
bis(2-Chloroethoxy)methane (BCM) is used primarily as a precursor in the synthesis of polysulfide elastomers. After administration of [14C]BCM, radioactivity is readily absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and moderately absorbed through skin. Following absorption, BCM-derived radioactivity is rapidly distributed to all tissues, rapidly metabolized and excreted primarily in urine. Minimal effects of sex, species or dose in the range studied (0.1–10 mg kg−1) were observed on the fate of BCM in rats and mice after all routes of administration. The major metabolite (about 40% of the dose) of BCM in rat was isolated and identified as thiodiglycolic acid (TDGA) indicating that the ether linkage of BCM is cleaved to form 2-chloroethyl fragments that may be further metabolized to 2-chloracetaldehyde, conjugated with glutathione and the latter subsequently metabolized to TDGA. 2-chloroacetaldehyde has also been shown to be cardiotoxic, possibly accounting for BCM cardiotoxicity observed in repeated dose studies.
Incorporation of labeled P i into ThDP-An aliquot (1 ml) of the mitochondrial suspension was incubated for 10 min at 37 °C in the presence of 1 mM ThDP, 5 mM pyruvate, 5 mM P i and 10 µl H 3 32 PO 4 (3.7 MBq final). The mitochondria were then washed twice, treated with 12% TCA and centrifuged for 3 minutes at 5000 x g. After extraction with diethyl ether, the supernatant was used for the assay of thiamine derivatives by HPLC and the pellet for the determination of protein Determination of thiamine derivatives and ATP-Thiamine and its phosphate esters were determined by HPLC after oxidation to fluorescent thiochromes (42). ATP was determined by HPLC using either UV detection (44) or fluorescence detection after ethenylation with chloroacetaldehyde by a slight modification of previously published methods (45, 46) . After precipitation, the TCA (12%) was extracted from the supernatants by diethyl ether. To 150 µl of sample were added 25 µl of sodium acetate (1 M, pH 4.0) and 25 µl of chloroacetaldehyde. After incubation (30 min, 72 °C), the samples were put on ice and 50 µl NH 4 HCO 3 (0.5 M) were added. Control solutions containing ATP, ADP or AMP were treated the same way and used as standards. Ethenylated adenine nucleotides were separated by HPLC and detected fluorimetrically (300 nm for excitation and 420 nm for emission) using a 5 µm Apollo C18 column (150 x 4.6 mm, Varian B.V. Middelburg, The Netherlands) at a flow rate of 1 ml/min using a gradient elution. Solvent A was composed of sodium phosphate buffer (100 mM, pH 6.0). Solvent B contained 70% solvent A and 30% methanol. A two-step gradient was applied : from 0-20% B in 9 min ; 20-100% B from 9 to 24 min ; 100-0% B from 24-30 min followed by 1 min at 0% B before the next injection.
The dose-limiting toxic effect of CY, observed only after administration of high-doses, is cardiotoxicity. Since its initial description 40 years ago [1] , the wide-spectrum incidence, manifestation, and severity of cardiotoxicity has been widely reported [7] [8] [9] . Most severely, with attendant risk of sudden death, this may manifest as hemorrhagic necrotic perimyocarditis. On the basis of postmortem examination, the pathophysiology of high-dose CY-associated cardiac toxicity is thought to depend upon toxic endothelial damage followed by extravasation of toxic metabolites with resultant myocyte damage and interstitial hemorrhage and edema [7, 10] . Since the mechanism underlying this phenomenon has not yet been elucidated, and no definitive risk factors have yet been identified, we investigated the cardiotoxic mechanisms of high- Cyclophosphamide metabolic pathways. Cyclophosphamide (CY) is metabolized to 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide (HCY) in the hepatic cytochrome P-450 enzyme (CYP) system (CYP2B6 and/or CYP2C19). HCY enters cells as tautomer aldocyclophosphamide (AldoCY). Through β-elimination, AldoCY can be converted to phosphoramide mustard (PM) and acrolein. Alternatively, AldoCY can also be oxidized to the inactive metabolite o-carboxyethylphosphoramide mustard (CEPM) by aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 (ALDH1). Other metabolites include chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), deschloroethyl-cyclophosphamide (DCCY), 4-keto-cyclophosphamide (KetoCY), hydroxypropyl-phosphoramide mustard (HPPM), iminocyclophosphamide (IminoCY), and glutathionyl-cyclophosphamide (GSCY).
RIPs were purified from members of various plant families as follows: Caryophyllaceae, Dianthus caryophyllus leaves (dianthins), Lychnis chalcedonica seeds (lychnin), and Saponaria officinalis leaves (saporin-L proteins), roots (saporin-R), and seeds (saporin-S proteins); Cucurbitaceae, Bryonia dioica roots (bryodin-R), Citrullus colocynthis seeds (colocins), Momordica cochinchinensis seeds (momorcochin-S), Momordica charantia seeds (momordin 1), and Trichosanthes kirilowii seeds (trichokirin); Euphorbiaceae, Gelonium multiflorum seeds (gelo- Chloroacetaldehyde was prepared as described by McCann et al. (19) . All other reagents were of analytical or molecular biology grade and, when possible, RNase free.
Mixtures of diacyl-terminated trichloroacetaldehyde (chloral) oligomers were synthesized using tertiary amines as initiators followed by end-capping with diacyl anhydrides. Not only were the oligomeric alkoxide molecules acyl end-capped when the reaction mixture was treated with the acid anhydride, but the initiator fragment that was attached to the initiated end was also replaced by an acylate group. Eight different anhydrides were used for end-capping reactions allowing us to synthesize a number of symmetric chloral oligomers diacylates. A mechanism for the oligomerization of the chloral monomer was proposed on the basis of the results obtained from these investigations. Similar oligomerizations of bromal initiated with tertiary amines, and end-capped with acetic anhydride, gave the corresponding oligomeric bromal diacetates. All the trihaloacetaldehyde oligomer mixtures were analyzed by gas chromatography and the individual components were identified by K+IDS mass spectrometry.
Benzo [b]thiophen-2-thiol and its 5- and 7-chloro-derivatives were prepared by treatment of the approriate 2-benzo[b]thienyl-lithium derivative with sulphur. Benzo [b]thiophen and its 5-bromo- and 7-chloro-derivatives were sulphonated in the 3-position. The resulting sulphonic acids were converted into the sulphonyl chlorides, which were reduced (LiAlH4) to the corresponding 3-thiols. The 2- and 3-thiols thus prepared condensed readily with chloroacetaldehyde diethyl acetal, chloroacetone, or 3-chlorobutan-2-one, and the products were cyclised with polyphosphoric acid to give thieno[2,3-b or 3,2-b][1] benzothiophen derivatives. Thieno[2,3-b][1]benzothiophen-2-carboxylic acid, its 5-bromo-derivative, and thieno[3,2-b][1]benzothiophen-2-carboxylic acid were prepared by cyclisation of the appropriate β-(3- or 2-benzo[b]thienyl)-α-mercaptoacrylic acid with iodine in either tetrahydrofuran or nitrobenzene. The formation of thieno[2,3-b or 3,2-b][1]benzothiophen SS-dioxides probably involves oxidation of the sulphur atom adjacent to the benzene ring in each case.
The asymmetric ortho-specific hydroxyalkylation of phenols with trichloroacetaldehyde in the presence of chiral alkoxyaluminium chlorides gives rise to optically active 2-(2,2,2-trichloro-1-hydroxyethyl) phenols, with good optical yields.
Abstract Ifosfamide is an alkylating antineoplastic prodrug used to treat many solid tumors. The metabolism of ifosfamide is via CYP450 3A4 and 2B6 and produces active ifosfamide mustard, the toxic metabolite acrolein and chloroacetaldehyde (CAA). Additionally, CAA is believed to induce proximal tubular dysfunction which results in Fanconi's syndrome. It is a condition not commonly encountered in adults receiving ifosfamide but relatively common in children. Herein, we have reported a 25-year-old woman with a history of synovial sarcoma with multiple lung metastasis and repetitive locoregional recurrence. She received chemotherapy with high dose ifosfamide as her antineoplastic treatment. Before her 4 th cycle of chemotherapy, the patient's pre-chemotherapy evaluation revealed proteinuria, glucosuria, phosphateuria, hypophosphatemia and non-anion gap metabolic acidosis. The above conditions were consistent with Fanconi's syndrome. We treated her with electrolyte supplement and close monitoring of the noted laboratory abnormalities. Fortunately, the laboratory abnormality gradually resolved. Our case highlights the rare potential complication of ifosfamide, especially in patients who had received a high cumulive dose. To avoid this rare but potentially debilitating condition, patients whose cumulative ifosfamide dose reaches threshold should be closely monitored.
[53689-87-5] C9H15IO2 (MW 282.12) ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: InChI = 1S/C9H15IO2/c1-7(5-6-10)8(11)12-9(2,3)4/h5H,6H2,1-4H3/b7-5+ ::: ::: ::: ::: InChIKey = UCEMUYZJXSEGHM-FNORWQNLSA-N ::: ::: ::: ::: (regioselective annulations;1 methyl vinyl ketone equivalent2) ::: ::: ::: ::: Alternate Name: tert-butyl γ-iodotiglate. ::: ::: ::: ::: Physical Data: bp 80 °C/0.005 mmHg.1 ::: ::: ::: ::: Preparative Method: treatment of Chloroacetaldehyde with the phosphorane shown in eq 1 followed by halogen exchange with Sodium Iodide/acetone affords the title reagent in 76% overall yield.1, 2 ::: ::: (1)
In vivo oxidation of chloroethyl side-chains on ifosfamide produces the toxin chloroacetaldehyde. Production of this labile metabolite can be indirectly quantitated by monitoring the excretion of the residual 2- and 3-dechloroethylated ifosfamide. Urinary ifosfamide and the two dechloroethylated metabolites were extracted into chloroform from alkalinized salt-saturated urine, followed by high-performance liquid chromatographic separation using an acetonitrile gradient on a reversed-phase column and ultraviolet detection at 190 nm. In five patients given 1.6 g/m2 ifosfamide, 11-30% of the dose was excreted over 24 h as unchanged drug, 11-21% as 3-dechloroethylated and 3-10% as 2-dechloroethylated ifosfamide.
The method for the determination of trichloroacetaldehyde in water by headspace GC and its relevant detection conditions were introduced in this paper.The result of analyzing trichloroacetaldehyde showed that the detection limit was 0.1 ug/L.The RSD(n=7)was between 2.42% and 5.42%,the recovery rate was between 93.3% and 103.3%.The results conformed the requirements of sanitary standards for drinking water promulgated by the Ministry of Health.
The in vitro reaction of the vinyl chloride metabolite chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) with cytosine and adenine residues in ribo- and deoxyribopolynucleotides leads to the formation of the relatively stable hydrated etheno derivatives 3,N4-(N4-alpha-hydroxyethene)adenine (epsilon C . H2O) and 1,N6-(N6-alpha-hydroxyethene)cytosine (epsilon A . H2O). Under physiological conditions the hydrates are slowly converted to 3,N4-ethenocytosine (epsilon C) and 1,N6-ethenoadenine (epsilon A). The half-life at pH 7.25 of epsilon C . H2O in poly(rC) is 4.9 h at 50 degrees C and of epsilon A . H2O in poly(rA) is 1.4 h at 37 degrees C. These dehydration rates in polymers are similar to those for hydrates in monomers. The reactivity of A and C residues is greatly suppressed in double-stranded polymers. Adenine residues are about 10 times less reactive in poly(rA) . poly(rU) than A in single-stranded polymers. Under similar reaction conditions no reaction of C residues in poly(rC) . poly(rG) was detected. In vinyl chloride exposed cells, where CAA is formed, the cyclic etheno derivatives of A and C are likely to occur preferentially in single-stranded regions of nucleic acids, with the hydrate forming a major proportion of the modification.
The epigenetic DNA modifications 5-methylcytosine (5mC) and 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC) in eukaryotes are recognized either in the context of double-stranded DNA (e.g., by the methyl-CpG binding domain of MeCP2), or in the flipped-out state (e.g., by the SRA domain of UHRF1). The SRA-like domains and the base-flipping mechanism for 5(h)mC recognition are also shared by the recently discovered prokaryotic modification-dependent endonucleases of the MspJI and PvuRts1I families. Since the mechanism of modified cytosine recognition by many potential eukaryotic and prokaryotic 5(h)mC “readers” is still unknown, a fast solution based method for the detection of extrahelical 5(h)mC would be very useful. In the present study we tested base-flipping by MspJI- and PvuRts1I-like restriction enzymes using several solution-based methods, including fluorescence measurements of the cytosine analog pyrrolocytosine and chemical modification of extrahelical pyrimidines with chloroacetaldehyde and KMnO4. We find that only KMnO4 proved an efficient probe for the positive display of flipped out pyrimidines, albeit the method required either non-physiological pH (4.3) or a substitution of the target cytosine with thymine. Our results imply that DNA recognition mechanism of 5(h)mC binding proteins should be tested using a combination of all available methods, as the lack of a positive signal in some assays does not exclude the base flipping mechanism.
Many studies of disinfection by-products (DBPs) in pools have focused on haloacetic acids, trihalomethanes, and chloramines, with less studies investigating the occurrence of other DBPs, such as haloketones, haloacetaldehydes, haloacetonitriles, halonitromethanes, and haloacetamides. Furthermore, while many studies have achieved a broadscreen analysis across several pools, fewer studies have followed the water quality of pools over time, with information regarding the production and fate of DBPs in pools over extended periods (e.g. > 1 year) being limited. This study reports the occurrence of 39 DBPs and several general water quality parameters in two newly built and filled swimming pools over 15 months, where investigations began prior to opening. DBP concentrations measured in this study were generally similar to or higher than those previously reported in chlorinated pools, with concentrations of chloroacetic acid, dichloroacetic acid, trichloroacetic acid, and chloral hydrate (trichloroacetaldehyde) in some samples being higher than previously reported maximum concentrations. Considering both pools, lower concentrations of DBPs were measured in the pool where a steady state non-purgeable organic carbon concentration was achieved, highlighting the importance of the establishment of a steady state balance of mineralisation versus addition of organic carbon to reduce precursors for DBP formation in pools. Pools were found to exhibit significantly higher estimated cytotoxicity than their filling water, which reflects the significantly higher concentrations of DBPs measured in the pools in comparison to the filling water. Chloral hydrate accounted for up to 99% the total estimated cytotoxicity and was found to be correlated to the number of pool entries, suggesting that swimmers may be a potential source of chloral hydrate precursors in pools. The presence and subsequent peak of non-purgeable organic carbon and DBPs prior to, and soon after, opening suggest that the building process and/or new pool infrastructure may have had a significant impact on the chemical water quality, particularly on DBP formation. This study includes the first quantification of bromochloroacetaldehyde, bromodichloroacetaldehyde, bromochloronitromethane, and dichloronitromethane in chlorinated swimming pools, and provides important new knowledge on the long-term trends of DBPs in pools.
Abstract 8 halogenated aliphatic hydrocarbons were assayed for their ability to induce somatic segregation in the mould Aspergillus nidulans . Induction of haploidization, mitotic non-disjunction and mitotic crossing-over was studied in heterozygous colonies exposed to the tested chemicals through the detection and phenotypic analysis of segregated sectors. The results obtained show that 1,2-dibromoethane induced all kinds of segregated sectors; 1,2-dichloroethane, allyl chloride, 2-chloroethanol, 2,2-dichloroethanol and 2,2-dichloroacetaldehyde significantly increased the frequency of haploid sectors and diploid non-disjunctional sectors; chloroform and 1,2-dichloropropane were ineffective.
CPA is metabolized by constitutive P450 enzymes belonging to the CYP2C subfamily as well as by the drug-inducible enzymes CYP2B and CYP3A. CYP2B1 is the most active catalyst of CPA in the rat liver, whereas the corresponding human enzyme is CYP2B6. CYP2B1 is responsible for about 45% of CPA hydroxylation, while CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 contribute to around 25% and 12%, respectively. CPA hydroxylation generates 4-OH-cyclophosphamide, an unstable compound that forms the phosphamide mustard, which is responsible for the antitumoral effect by DNA alkylation in proliferating cells. On the other hand, the lateral chains of CPA can be oxidized, this reaction is catalyzed mainly by CYP3A4 and it forms chloroacetaldehyde (CAA). CAA has neurotoxic, nefrotoxic, cardiotoxic, and myelosuppressive properties [5] [6] [7] [8] (Figure 1 ).
The epigenetic DNA modifications 5-methylcytosine (5mC) and 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC) in eukaryotes are recognized either in the context of double-stranded DNA (e.g., by the methyl-CpG binding domain of MeCP2), or in the flipped-out state (e.g., by the SRA domain of UHRF1). The SRA-like domains and the base-flipping mechanism for 5(h)mC recognition are also shared by the recently discovered prokaryotic modification-dependent endonucleases of the MspJI and PvuRts1I families. Since the mechanism of modified cytosine recognition by many potential eukaryotic and prokaryotic 5(h)mC ''readers'' is still unknown, a fast solution based method for the detection of extrahelical 5(h)mC would be very useful. In the present study we tested base-flipping by MspJI-and PvuRts1I-like restriction enzymes using several solution-based methods, including fluorescence measurements of the cytosine analog pyrrolocytosine and chemical modification of extrahelical pyrimidines with chloroacetaldehyde and KMnO 4 . We find that only KMnO 4 proved an efficient probe for the positive display of flipped out pyrimidines, albeit the method required either non-physiological pH (4.3) or a substitution of the target cytosine with thymine. Our results imply that DNA recognition mechanism of 5(h)mC binding proteins should be tested using a combination of all available methods, as the lack of a positive signal in some assays does not exclude the base flipping mechanism.
The NADPH-dependent, vinyl chloride-mediated destruction of cytochrome P-450 was demonstrated in rat liver microsomes and in highly purified reconstituted enzyme systems containing NADPH-cytochrome P-450 reductase (NADPH:ferricytochrome oxidoreductase, EC [1.6.2.4][1]) and cytochrome P-450. This loss of cytochrome P-450 could be attributed to heme destruction, but not to lipid peroxidation or binding of electrophiles to free sulfhydryl groups. The system required all components necessary for mixed-function oxidation, including molecular oxygen, and was inhibited by carbon monoxide, suggesting strongly that oxidative metabolism of vinyl chloride by cytochrome P-450 is necessary for the observed destruction. The NADPH-cytochrome P-450 reductase-catalyzed destruction of free and cytochrome P-450-bound heme was also observed in reconstituted systems in the absence of vinyl chloride. Inhibition experiments with carbon monoxide and catalase suggest that the vinyl chloride-mediated destruction of cytochrome P-450 heme differs from these processes. Two proposed metabolites of vinyl chloride, vinyl chloride epoxide and 2-chloroacetaldehyde, do not appear to be responsible for the heme destruction. Evidence for the involvement of free radicals could not be demonstrated when the reaction was examined by EPR spectroscopy or when attempts were made to inhibit cytochrome P-450 destruction with radical-trapping agents. ::: ::: ACKNOWLEDGMENT We wish to express our gratitude to Dr. T. Martin, Department of Chemistry, Vanderbilt University, for his help with the EPR spectroscopy. ::: ::: [1]: pending:yes
Personalized tumor chemotherapy depends on reliable assay methods, either based on molecular "predictive biomarkers" or on a direct, functional ex vivo assessment of cellular chemosensitivity. As a member of the latter category, a novel high-content platform is described monitoring human mamma carcinoma explants in real time and label-free before, during and after an ex vivo modeled chemotherapy. Tissue explants are sliced with a vibratome and laid into the microreaction chambers of a 24-well sensor test plate. Within these ~23 μl volume chambers, sensors for pH and dissolved oxygen record rates of cellular oxygen uptake and extracellular acidification. Robot-controlled fluid system and incubation are parts of the tissue culture maintenance system while an integrated microscope is used for process surveillance. Sliced surgical explants from breast cancerous tissue generate well-detectable ex vivo metabolic activity. Metabolic rates, in particular oxygen consumption rates have a tendency to decrease over time. Nonetheless, the impact of added drugs (doxorubicin, chloroacetaldehyde) is discriminable. Sensor-based platforms should be evaluated in explorative clinical studies for their suitability to support targeted systemic cancer therapy. Throughput is sufficient for testing various drugs in a range of concentrations while the information content obtained from multiparametric real-time analysis is superior to conventional endpoint assays.
Ifosfamide (IFO) is an anticancer drug, widely used against various types of human solid tumors. This prodrug produced active alkylating isophosphoramide mustard. But its side-chain oxidative metabolism is associated with toxicities in high-dose chemotherapy. As acrolein urotoxicity is limited by coadministration of mesna, chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) is responsible for neurotoxicity and nephrotoxicity. C7, C9 dimethyl-ifosfamide analogs have been synthesized to prevent these side effects. In vitro metabolism and anticancer activity investigations demonstrated that the generated dimethylated mustards were faster alkylating agents (28 fold faster) than isophosphoramide mustard and IC50 values on 9L glioblastoma cells showed higher cytotoxicity of analogs, especially the 7S,9S enantiomer (1). This later was selected for in vivo investigations. As these analogs were still metabolized through the same N-deschloroalkylation pathway, monoochloroacetone (MCA) is produced instead of CAA. In a first step, in vitro/ex vivo experiments were conducted to investigate its toxicity. The toxicity of both metabolites was compared by evaluation of cell viability using canine kidney cell lines (MDCK) and rabbit renal proximal tubules (RRPT). Cell viability experiments showed that similar IC50 values were obtained for CAA and MCA (21 and 23 µM) on MDCK. To determine detoxification pathways, several experiments were conducted on RRPT. Whereas these compounds could react directly with glutathione (GSH), identification of GSH and its conjugates (GSR) was performed by LC/MS after incubation of MDCK and RRPT with 200 µM CAA and MCA. Both enzymatic reduction and GSH conjugation pathways occurred. Conjugates were then quantified by LC-MS/MS over 1-650 µM for GSH and over 1-200 µM for GSR from 20 to 120 min. The results demonstrated a rapid depletion of GSH and few differences in detoxification9s kinetics for CAA and MCA. As MCA in vivo generated levels are still unknown, 7S,9S dimethyl-IFO analog is currently under investigation on human tumor cells xenografted in mice in order to confirm its antitumor activity and to evaluate its toxicity. (1) Storme T, Deroussent A, Mercier L, Prost E, Re M, Munier F, Martens T, Bourget P, Vassal G, Royer J and Paci A. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2009, 328(2):598-609. Note: This abstract was not presented at the AACR 101st Annual Meeting 2010 because the presenter was unable to attend. Citation Format: {Authors}. {Abstract title} [abstract]. In: Proceedings of the 101st Annual Meeting of the American Association for Cancer Research; 2010 Apr 17-21; Washington, DC. Philadelphia (PA): AACR; Cancer Res 2010;70(8 Suppl):Abstract nr 3523.
Gas-chromatographic method of trichloroacetaldehyde (TCAA) determination in ambient air was developed. Its possibilities for TCAA analysis are within 0.015-0.5 mg/m3. The threshold of its irritating olfactory action was determined. The maximal single-exposure permissible concentration of TCAA is 0.03 mg/m3.
S-Adenosyl-L-homocysteine hydrolase (SAHh) inhibitors have long been used as broad-range antivirals and have been recently evaluated as an experimental therapy of filovirus infections. In response to the need for a rapid laboratory testing method that could assess antiviral potency in vivo, our group developed a capillary electrophoresis (CE) method for the determination of the S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine (SAH) to S-adenosyl-L-methionine (SAM) ratio. After chloroacetaldehyde derivatization, SAH and SAM were detected using laser-induced fluorescence detection with a HeCd laser. Separation and quantitation of both SAH and SAM in human plasma were achieved in less than 1 min. The proposed method is rapid and reliable, and could be easily applied to routine monitoring of clinical and preclinical trials subjects.
Abstract Occupational medicamentosa-like dermatitis induced by trichloroethylene (OMLDT) is a hypersensitivity disease with autoimmune liver injury, which has increasingly become a serious occupational health problem in China. However, the pathogenesis of OMLDT remained undefined. In this study, 30 TCE-induced OMLDT patients, 58 exposure controls, and 40 non-exposure controls were recruited. We showed that the ratio of activated CD4+ T cells (downregulation of CD62 L) was dramatically increased in OMLDT patients compared to exposure and non-exposure control, suggesting that CD4+ T cells activation was a key cellular event in the development of OMLDT. In parallel, the expression of cytokine including IL-2, IFN-γ, TNF-α and IL-17A were increased obviously and IL-4 decreased in CD4+ T cells from OMLDT patients. in vitro assay, we found that trichloroethylene metabolites trichloroacetaldehyde (TCAH), not trichloroacetic acid (TCA) or Trichloroethanol (TCOH) could activate the naive CD4+ T cells characterized by a rise in intracellular calcium, down-regulated CD62 L and subsequently trigger the secretion of IL-2, IFN-γ and TNF-α. Notably, the phosphorylation status of NF-κB and p38MAPK were elevated in OMLDT patients. Moreover, TCAH also could activate the p38MAPK and NF-κB, suggesting the role of p38MAPK and NF-κB pathways in the activation of CD4+ T cells. In addition, we found that the inhibition of Schiff base formation decreased the ability of TCAH to induce the activation of naive CD4+ T cells and p38MAPK and NF-κB pathway. In conclusion, we revealed that the CD4+ T activation and increased the cytokines including IL-2, IFN-γ and TNF-α but decreased IL-4 in CD4+ T cells were associated with OMLDT. TCAH could activate naive CD4+ T cells through NF-κB and p38MAPK activation induced by Schiff base formation, which might contribute to the development of OMLDT. These findings provide a new insight into the pathogenesis of OMLDT.
We show that chloroacetaldehyde, a chemical compound known to be reactive with unpaired adenine and cytosine residues, reacts with adenine residues (syn conformation) but not with cytosine residues (anti conformation) within Z-DNA. These modified residues are sensitive to cleavage by piperidine, which allows mapping at the single nucleotide level.
Simultaneous quantification of adenosine and deoxyadenosine isomers, including 2′-deoxyadenosine (dA) and 3′-deoxyadenosine (cordycepin, COR) is a challenge because they are very similar in chemical structure. In some previous studies on food ingredients, adenine and dA might be mistakenly detected as COR that has been shown to have multiple health benefits. In this work, we developed a novel HPLC method with fluorescence detection (HPLC-FD) to simultaneously quantify COR, adenosine and dA. Pre-column derivatization with chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) was deployed. The proposed method has a limit of detection at the nM level for COR and adenosine, and is far more sensitive than the methods previously developed for COR determination. Using the present method, caterpillar fungi were analyzed as model food samples. The analysis revealed that COR was present in Cordyceps militaris and Cordyceps flowers in a concentration range from 0.314 to 0.735 mg g−1, but not in Cordyceps sinensis (C. sinensis), a natural and the priciest caterpillar fungus. These results suggest that the profile of active ingredients in C. sinensis has been wrongly claimed for many years. This finding was also supported by the results from further HPLC-MS/MS analyses.
Abstract A sensitive high-performance liquid chromatography method was developed with spectrofluorimetric detection for the determination of tenofovir, a new HIV reverse transcriptase inhibitor, in human plasma. After precipitation of 200 μl of plasma samples by methanol and evaporation of the supernatant, fluorescent derivatized compounds were obtained by a 40-min incubation at 80 °C with chloroacetaldehyde 0.34% at pH 4.5. The assay was performed isocratically using 5 m M Na 2 HPO 4 (pH 6), containing tetrabutylammonium (TBA) chloride 5 m M , and acetonitrile (85:15, v/v) as mobile phase, and a Cluzeau C 8 plus satisfaction column maintained at 35 °C. Detection was performed at excitation and emission wavelengths set at 236 and 420 nm, respectively. In these conditions, tenofovir can be separated from adefovir, the internal standard, and endogenous substances. The method was found to be linear and has been validated over a concentration range of 5–1000 μg/l. The average coefficient of the limit of quantification (5 μg/l) was 5.38% and at this concentration, a signal-to-noise ratio of 500 was measured
Abstract A ion-paired reverse-phase high-pressure liquid chromatographic method using fluorescence detection for the determination of adenine nucleotides in soil has been developed. Dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) was added to soil to stop biological activity; then, phosphate buffer (pH 11.7) was added for a further dispersion. An aliquot of soil suspension was mixed with an equal volume of nucleotide releasing agent (NRB) and then sonified. The adenylates separated from the mixture by passing through a membrane filter were reacted with chloroacetaldehyde to form their corresponding 1.N 6 -etheno-derivatives. These derivatives were eluted on an ODS (C-18) column with 0.05 M ammonium acetate, 1.0 mM EDTA and 0.2 mM tetrabutylammonium hydrogen sulfate (pH 6.3) mixed with methanol (water phase/methanol 9:1 v/v) as a mobile phase. The minimum detection limits of this analytical method were 0.2, 0.1 and 0.05 μg·g −1 dry soil for ATP, ADP and AMP in soil, respectively. The recoveries of soil samples fortified with 1.0, 2.0 and 5.0 μg·g −1 dry soil of the adenine nucleotides were > 80%.
The content of AdoMet and dcAdoMet was determined by converting them to the fluorescent 1,N 6 -etheno derivatives by reaction with chloroacetaldehyde and separation by HPLC essentially as described by Wagner et al. [38] . Tissue samples were lysed in 20 % trichloroacetic acid at 4
• C overnight. After centrifugation (13 000 g for 10 min at 4 • C), the supernatant was collected and derivatized by the addition of chloroacetaldehyde (final concentration of 2 M) and sodium acetate (0.44 M final concentration) followed by incubation at pH 3.0 at 40
Healthy Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were supplied by the Animal Center of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (Shanghai, China) and housed under controlled lighting (14 h light; 10 h darkness) at 21-22°C and were provided with water and libitum. In this study, we used 120 male rats (400-450 g) and 50 female rats (200 g for in vitro fertilization [IVF], 300 g for the mating test). Trichloroacetaldehyde monohydrate (6%, w/v) was used as an anesthesia for in vivo lentiviral procedures. The rats were killed by CO 2 asphyxiation. All the experiments were conducted according to a protocol approved by the Institute Animal Care Committee.
The reaction of trichloroacetaldehyde with fluorobenzene, followed by a series of transformations, gave 4-fluorobenzil and 4,4'-difluorobenzil which were used in the synthesis of new difluoroaromatic compounds with a heterocyclic central group. The 1H, 13C, and 19F NMR spectra of the newly synthesized difluoroaromatic compounds were studied. The charge densities on the carbon atoms attached to fluorine were calculated in terms of the PM3 and AM1 semiempirical approximations. A correlation was found between the charge on C(F) and the corresponding 13C and 19F chemical shifts. Using this correlation, the reactivity of difluoroaromatic compounds in nucleophilic substitution reactions was estimated.
Using a combination of mass spectrometry and infrared spectroscopy, disinfection byproducts were identified in ozonated drinking water containing elevated bromide levels and in ozonated water treated with secondary chlorine or chloramine. Only one brominated byproductdibromoacetonitrilewas found in the water treated with only ozone. This compound was found only in one of the three treatment rounds and was also present in the untreated, raw water but at levels 20 times lower than in the ozonated water. Many more byproducts were identified when secondary chlorine or chloramine was applied after ozonation. A number of these byproducts have not been reported previously. When comparing low-bromide water to water with elevated bromide, a tremendous shift in speciation was observed for samples treated with secondary chlorine or chloramine. Without high bromide levels, chlorinated species dominate (e.g., chloroform, trichloroacetaldehyde, tetrachloropropanone, dichloroacetonitrile, trichloronitromethane); with el...
3,N4-Etheno-O-persilyl derivatives of nucleotides and nucleosides of cytosine have been studied as derivatives for gas chromatography and mass spectrometry. Ethenylation blocks further derivatization of the base and therefore precludes chromatographic problems associated with trimethylsilylation at position N4 of cytosine. The mixed derivatives exhibit satisfactory gas chromatographic properties and produce molecular ions of greater abundance than in the case of the corresponding trimethylsilyl derivatives. Relative retention times and mass spectral data from three nucleotides and three nucleotides are presented. Reaction with chloroacetaldehyde to form etheno derivatives is selective for cytosine and adenine bases, and so the reaction is potentically useful for characterization of nucleotides or nucleosides of unknown structure.
Abstract Current drug development techniques are expensive and inefficient, partially due to the use of preclinical models that do not accurately recapitulate in vivo drug efficacy and cytotoxicity. To address this challenge, we report on an integrated, in vitro multi-organoid system that enables parallel assessment of drug efficiency and toxicity on multiple 3D tissue organoids. Built in a low-cost, adhesive film-based microfluidic device, these miniaturized structures require less than 200 µL fluid volume and are amenable to both matrix-based 3D cell culture and spheroid aggregate integration, each supported with an in situ photocrosslinkable hyaluronic acid hydrogel. Here, we demonstrate this technology first with a three-organoid device consisting of liver, cardiac, and lung constructs. We show that these multiple tissue types can be kept in common circulation with high viability for 21 days and validate the platform by investigating liver metabolism of the prodrug capecitabine into 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and observing downstream toxicity in lung and cardiac organoids. Then we expand the integrated system to accommodate six humanized constructs, including liver, cardiac, lung, endothelium, brain, and testes organoids. Following a 14-day incubation in common media, we demonstrate multi-tissue interactions by metabolizing the alkylating prodrug ifosfamide in the liver organoid to produce chloroacetaldehyde and induce downstream neurotoxicity. Our results establish an expandable, multi-organoid body-on-a-chip system that can be fabricated easily and used for the accurate characterization of drug interactions in vitro.
To provide supporting evidence for the hypothetical involvement of etheno-derivative formation in DNA in chloroacetaldehyde-mediated mutagenesis, etheno nucleosides were examined for their direct-acting mutagenicity in Salmonella typhimurium strain TA100. The results, however, have shown that 1,N6-ethenoadenosine, 1,N6-ethenodeoxyadenosine, 3,N4-ethenocytidine and 3,N4-ethenodeoxycytidine lack mutagenicity in this test system. A lesson learned in this study is that 3,N4-ethenocytosine nucleosides prepared synthetically or obtained from commercial sources can give false positive mutagenicity due to mutagenic contaminants.
Chloroethylene oxide and 2-chloroacetaldehyde, two possibly carcinogenic metabolities of vinyl chloride in mammals, caused a dose-dependent induction of 8-azaguanine- and ouabain-resistant mutants in Chinese hamster V79 cells in vitro. Up to one-hundred-fold higher concentrations of 2-chloroethanol or monochloroacetic acid, a urinary vinyl chloride metabolite in rats and man, were inactive.
1,1-Dichloro-2-( o -chlorophenyl)-2-( p -chlorophenyl- 14 C)ethane( o , p ′-DDD- 14 C), 1,1-sichlora-2-( m -chlorophenyl)-2-( p -chlorophenyl- 14 C)ethne(m, P′-DDD- 14 C) and 1,1-dichloro-2,2-bis-( p -chlorophenyl- 14 C)ethane( p , p′-DDD- 14 C) were synthesized by acid catalyzed condensation of chlorobenzene- 14 C with excess 2,2-dichloro-l-( o -, m -, and p -chlorophenyl)ethanols. The carbinols were prepared in good yields by reverse addition of the chlorophenyl Grignard reagent to dichloroacetaldehyde. Purity was determined by thin-layer and gas chromatography. The I.R., U.V., and NMR spectra of these compounds are discussed.
The metabolism of 1,2-dihaloethanes (DHEs) to glutathione-containing metabolites by freshly isolated rat hepatocytes was investigated. 1,2-Dichloroethane (DCE), 1,2-dibromoethane (DBE), and 1-bromo-2-chloroethane (BCE) were metabolized to S-(2-hydroxyethyl)glutathione (HEG), S-(carboxymethyl)glutathione (CMG), and S,S'-(1,2-ethanediyl)bis(glutathione) (GEG). The formation of these glutathione-containing metabolites was concomitant with the depletion of intracellular glutathione (GSH) and accounted for 58%, 84%, and 71% of the DCE-, BCE-, and DBE-induced loss of intracellular GSH, respectively. The covalent binding of [14C]DBE to hepatocyte protein reached 18.7 nmol/mL of cell suspension (7.8 nmol/mg of protein) within 2.0 h of incubation. Half of this covalent binding occurred within 0.5 h of incubation (4.0 nmol/mg of protein) in the presence of high levels of intracellular GSH (30% of initial GSH level at 0.5 h). Hepatocyte metabolism of 2-chloroacetic acid produced only CMG. 2-Chloroethanol metabolism gave rise to CMG and HEG in a 11.5:1.0 ratio; 2-chloroacetaldehyde produced almost equal amounts of CMG and HEG. GEG formation was increased significantly for DBE and BCE when GSH was added to the medium during treatment, suggesting that the GSH conjugates S-(2-haloethyl)glutathione are exported from the hepatocytes. These results indicate that the glutathione S-transferase-catalyzed conjugation of GSH with the DHEs is responsible for the majority of the DHE-induced GSH depletion. The S-(2-haloethyl)glutathione conjugates appear responsible for the extensive covalent binding to protein observed during [14C]DBE metabolism.
Vinyl chloride monomer (VCM) is hepatotoxic as well as carcinogenic in humans. There are reports that exposure to VCM seems to induce abnormal liver function, liver fibrosis, cirrhosis, portal hypertension, and angiosarcoma of the liver. In vivo, VCM is metabolized by cytochrome P450 2E1 (CYP2E1) to form the electrophilic metabolites, chloroethylene oxide (CEO) and chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), which may either cause cell damage or be further metabolized and detoxified by glutathione S-transferases (GSTs). This study investigated whether or not the genotypes CYP2E1, glutathione S-transferase theta (GST T1) and mu (GST M1) correlated with abnormal liver function found in vinyl chloride exposed workers. For this study, 251 workers from five polyvinyl chloride plants were enrolled. The workers were classified into two exposure groups (high and low) and the degree of exposure was determined based on their job titles and airborne VCM concentration. The activity of serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) was used as the parameter of liver function. The genotypes CYP2E1, GST T1 and GST M1 were determined by polymerase chain reaction and restriction fragment length polymorphism on peripheral white blood cell DNA. Other potential risk factors were also ascertained and the confounding effect was adjusted accordingly. Stratified analyses were used to explore the correlation between the alteration of liver function and the genotypes CYP2E1, GST T1 and GST M1 among the workers exposed to different levels of VCM. The following results were obtained (1) at low VCM exposure, the odds ratio (OR) of positive GST T1 on abnormal ALT was 3.8 (95% CI 1.2-14.5) but the CYP2E1 genotype was not associated with abnormal ALT. (2) At high VCM exposure, a c2c2 CYP2E1 genotype was associated with increased OR on abnormal ALT (OR 5.4, 95% CI 0.7-35.1) and positive GST T1 was significantly associated with decreased OR on abnormal ALT (OR 0.3, 95% CI 0.1-0.9). (3) Multiple linear and logistic regression also showed strong interactions of the VCM exposure to CYP2E1 as well as to the GST T1 genotype. These observations suggest that the two genotypes, CYP2E1 and GST T1, may play important roles in the biotransformation of VCM, the effect of which leads to liver damage.
Abstract The effect of 2-chloroacetaldehyde, CAA, a metabolite of vinyl chloride and 2-chloroacetal, CAC, an ethyl diester of chloroacetaldehyde, on DNA synthesis in animal cells has been investigated. Both compounds drastically inhibited DNA synthesis at 10 to 20 μM. The inhibitory effect of the chemicals appears to be directly on DNA synthesis rather than on the uptake of thymidine or the formation of nucleotides. Residual DNA made in the presence of CAA had an average chain length of 300 nucleotides compared to a length of several thousand nucleotides in the absence of CAA. Synchronization experiments revealed that the inhibitory effect is reversible if 2-chloroacetaldehyde is removed within two hours but not after longer exposures.
Abstract CTG·CAG, CGG·CCG, and AAG·CTT triplet repeats proximal to or in disease genes expand by a non-Mendelian genetic process to cause several human hereditary syndromes. As part of our physical, biological, and genetic studies on the 10 possible triplet repeats, we discovered that the TTA·TAA repeat, isolated from the upstream region of the variant surface glycoprotein gene of Trypanosoma brucei, shows a propensity to adopt a non-H bonded structure under appropriate conditions. The other nine triplet repeat sequences do not exhibit this property. (TTA·TAA)n, where n = 90, 60, 30, and 18, cloned into pUC19 was studied by chemical and enzymatic probes as well as two-dimensional gel electrophoretic analyses under a variety of conditions. The helix opening was observed for all four inserts in supercoiled plasmids as a function of temperature, pH, metal ions, and buffer conditions using OsO4, diethyl pyrocarbonate, and chloroacetaldehyde probes. This unusual property of the TTA·TAA repeat suggests that it plays a different role from the other nine triplet repeats in gene expression.
Naphtho[1,2-b]furan-4,5-dione (NFD), prepared from chloroacetaldehyde and 2-hydroxy-1,4-naphthoquinone in an efficient one-pot reaction, exhibits anti-carcinogenic effect. The results showed that NFD inhibited the proliferation of breast cancer MDA-MB-231 cells through the induction of S-phase arrest and apoptosis. NFD activated c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38 MAPK) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) in MDA-MB-231 cells. Inhibitors of JNK (SP600125) and ERK (PD98059), but not p38 MAPK (SB203580) suppressed NFD-induced S phase arrest and apoptosis in MDA-MB-231 cells. Taken together, our data show that JNK and ERK-signaling pathways play important roles in NFD mediated S-phase arrest and apoptosis of MDA-MB-231 cells. In the analysis of signal transduction pathway, NFD suppressed the phosphorylation of JAK2 in MDA-MB-231 cells. Activation of STAT3, Src, and PI3K/Akt were also inhibited by NFD. Moreover, the JAK2 inhibitor AG490 blocked JAK2, STAT3, Src, PI3K, and Akt activation, whereas both Src inhibitor PP2 and PI3K inhibitor wortmannin did not affect JAK2 activation. This suggests that STAT3, Src, and PI3K/Akt are downstream molecules of the JAK2 signaling pathway. Taken together, these results indicate that NFD disrupts JAK2 pathway and induces apoptosis in MDA-MB-231 cells. Cardiotoxin III (CTX III), a basic polypeptide with 60 amino acid residues isolated from Naja naja atra venom, has been reported to have anticancer activity. CTX III-induced cell apoptosis, this correlated with up-regulation in Bax and Bad, and down-regulation of various anti-apoptotic proteins. Mechanistic studies showed that CTX III suppressed the phosphorylation of JAK2, STAT3, Akt, and activation of PI3K. Moreover, the PI3K inhibitor wortmannin blocked activation of STAT3 and Akt without affecting the JAK2 activation, whereas JAK2 inhibitor AG490 suppressed the levels of phospho-STAT3, phospho-Akt, and PI3K, suggesting that PI3K activation occurs after JAK2 phosphorylation, and both PI3K and JAK2 kinases cooperate to mediate STAT3 and Akt phosphorylation. Taken together, these results indicate that CTX III induces apoptosis in MDA-MB-231 cells via concomitant inactivation of the JAK2, STAT3, PI3K, and Akt signaling pathways.
A series of 15 halogenated hydrocarbons of industrial and environmental importance were tested for carcinogenicity by chronic administration by one or more routes in Ha:ICR Swiss mice. Not all compounds were tested by the four routes of administration used. Allyl chloride, 1,2-dibromo-3-chloropropane, and vinylidene chloride were active as skin tumor initiators in the two-stage carcinogenesis assays; phorbol myristate acetate was used as a promoter. 1,2-Dibromoethane was the only compound that induced a significant incidence (p less than 0.05) of skin papillomas, skin carcinomas, and lung tumors by repeated skin application. 1,2-Dichloroethane, 1,1,2,2-tetrabromoethane, and 1,2-dibromo-3-chloropropane induced lung and/or stomach tumors by repeated skin application. Two compounds showed sarcomagenic activity by sc injection; they were cis-1,3-dichloropropene and 2-chloropropanal. By intragastric intubation, 1-chloropropene and 2-chloropropanal induced significant numbers of stomach tumors. Vehicle, no-treatment, and positive control groups were included in these tests. The following compounds were also tested by one or more of the four routes but were inactive by the criteria used; i.e., they showed P = 0.05 or greater than 0.05: trichloroethylene, tetrachloroethylene, hexachlorobutadiene, chloroacetaldehyde, 1-chloropropene oxide (cis and trans), and trichloroethylene oxide.
In this article, three materials including dimethyl carbanate, hydrazine hydrate and chloroacetaldehyde were reacted into key intermediate 5-amino-1,2,3-thiadiazole. It reacted with phenyl isocyanate to get thidiazuron. From this test, suitable solvent and optimal reaction conditions were found. Under such conditions the yield reached 18% and purity of product 96%. The process enjoys advantages of mild reaction conditions, less waste and easier industrialization.
The effect of ifosfamide and its metabolites on intracellular levels of glutathione in P388 cells in vitro has been studied. It is demonstrated that glutathione depletion occurs only in the presence of 4-hydroperoxyifosfamide and chloroacetaldehyde. In contrast isophosphoramide mustard had no effect on glutathione levels in intact cells. The concentration of 4-hydroperoxyifosfamide required to reduce glutathione levels by 50% was approximately 1 mM and this represents a concentration far in excess of that achievable in patients receiving the drug. However the concentration of chloroacetaldehyde (approximately 100 microM) required to reduce intracellular levels of glutathione to a similar extent is attained in patients receiving ifosfamide. The glutathione levels in lymphocytes isolated from a patient undergoing an eight hour infusion of ifosfamide showed a marked decrease to about 30% of their original value. We conclude that ifosfamide causes glutathione depletion in vivo and the majority of this can be accounted for by the production of chloroacetaldehyde.
Tetraacetylhexaazaisowurtzitane(TAIW),the precursor to CL-20,was condensed with formaldehyde,acetaldehyde or chloroacetaldehyde,and three new isowurtzitane derivatives,3,5,9,11-tetraacetyl-14-oxo-1,3,5,7,9,11-hexaazapentaacyclo-[5.5.3.02,6.04,1008,12]pentadecane,13,15-dimethyl-3,5,9,11-tetraacetyl-14-oxo-1,3,5,7,9,11-hexaazapentaacyclo [5.5.3.02,6.04,1008,12] pentadecane and 13,15-dichloromethyl-3,5,9,11-tetraacetyl-14-oxo-1,3,5,7,9,11-hexaazapentaacyclo [5.5.3.02,6.04,1008,12] pentadecane,were synthesized and structurally characterized by elemental analysis,IR,1H NMR,13C NMR and MS.The results show that characteristics of the proton spectra of this new type caged compound are two signals at δ=6.2 and 5.4 in a 2:1 ratio.The three new compounds may be used as potential precursors of new energetic materials.
Ifosfamide is an antineoplastic drug with efficacy and activity in numerous cancers. This drug can be administered safely in a hospital setting if toxicities and side effects are monitored frequently by a well-informed and educated nursing staff. Problems may occur in any bodily system, such as the kidney, central nervous system (CNS), gastrointestinal tract, and bone marrow. This article reviews appropriate ways to monitor for complications and plan correct nursing interventions. Ifosfamide (Ifex, Mead Johnson) is an alkylating agent that is not cell cycle specific. One of its metabolites, acrolein, is responsible for hematuria. Concurrent administration of mesna (Mesnex, Mead Johnson) is used to prevent this complication. The metabolite chloroacetaldehyde may be responsible for CNS toxicities. When kidney function and electrolytes are within normal limits and psychotropic medications are not given concomitantly, this rarely occurs. Gastrointestinal toxicities are usually not severe, but may include occasional nausea and vomiting. Hematologic toxicity includes platelet-sparing myelosuppression, which can be successfully supported with the administration of growth factors.
Vinyl chloride is recognized as a human carcinogen. 2-Chlorooxirane, its biological reactive intermediate formed by the P450 enzyme system in the liver, and the rearrangement product chloroacetaldehyde give rise to the etheno (e) DNA adducts. This type of modified DNA bases appears to be the molecular basis for the genotoxic effects of the parent compound, and site specific mutagenesis studies (Basu et al., 1993) show its mutagenicity. There is evidence that e adducts might not only be formed by vinyl chloride metabolites but also be present at a certain level due to endogeneous sources (Misra et al., 1994).
The dose-response relationships for mutation to streptomycin nondependence in E. coli Sd-4 were studied for three chemical agents (ethylene oxide, methyl methanesulfonate and ethyl methanesulfonate) with large scale experiments, and for ten agents (propylene oxide, 1, 2-butene oxide, glycidol, epichlorohydrin, chloroethylene oxide, chloroacetone, bromoacetone, chloroacetaldehyde, glycolaldehyde and glyceraldehyde) with normal scale experiments. The data for ethylene oxide could be fitted to a single straight line. The mutation curves for methyl and ethyl methanesulfonates were resolved into two components. The dose-response relationships were indicated to be linear for six out of the remaining ten agents tested. Marked contributions from the quadratic components were reflected in the curves obtained with chloroethylene oxide, chloroacetaldehyde, chloroacetone and bromoacteone.
The widely used anticancer prodrug cyclophosphamide (CPA) is activated in liver by a 4-hydroxylation reaction primarily catalyzed by cytochrome P-4502B and P-4502C enzymes. An alternative metabolic pathway involves CPA N -dechloroethylation to yield chloroacetaldehyde (CA), a P-4503A-catalyzed deactivation/neurotoxication reaction. The in vivo modulation of these alternative, competing pathways of P-450 metabolism was investigated in pharmacokinetic studies carried out in the rat model. Peak plasma concentrations ( C max) for 4-OH-CPA and CA were increased by 3- to 4-fold, and apparent plasma half-lives of both metabolites were correspondingly shortened in rats pretreated with phenobarbital (PB), an inducer of P-4502B and P-4503A enzymes. However, PB had no net impact on the extent of drug activation or its partitioning between these alternative metabolic pathways, as judged from AUC values (area-under-the-plasma concentration × time curve) for 4-OH-CPA and CA. The P-4503A inhibitor troleandomycin (TAO) decreased plasma C max and AUC of CA (80–85% decrease) without changing the C max or AUC of 4-OH-CPA in uninduced rats. In PB-induced rats, TAO decreased AUCCA by 73%, whereas it increased AUC4-OH-CPA by 93%. TAO thus selectively suppresses CPA N -dechloroethylation, thereby increasing the availability of drug for P-450 activation via 4-hydroxylation. By contrast, dexamethasone, a P-4503A inducer and antiemetic widely used in patients with cancer, stimulated large, undesirable increases in the C max and AUC of CA (8- and 4-fold, respectively) while reducing the AUC of the 4-hydroxylation pathway by ∼60%. Tumor excision/in vitro colony formation and tumor growth delay assays using an in vivo 9L gliosarcoma solid tumor model revealed that TAO suppression of CPA N -dechloroethylation could be achieved without compromising the antitumor effect of CPA. The combination of PB with TAO did not, however, enhance the antitumor activity of CPA, despite the ∼2-fold increase in AUC4-OH-CPA, suggesting that other PB-inducible activities, such as aldehyde dehydrogenase, may counter this increase through enhanced deactivation of the 4-hydroxy metabolite. Together, these studies demonstrate that the P-4503A inhibitor TAO can be used to effectively modulate CPA metabolism and pharmacokinetics in vivo in a manner that decreases the formation of toxic metabolites that do not contribute to antitumor activity.
[42520-09-2] C6H11O2Cl (MW 151.69) ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: InChI = 1S/C6H11ClO2/c1-3-8-6(5-7)9-4-2/h5H,3-4H2,1-2H3 ::: ::: ::: ::: InChIKey = VAHVMMZLTJXKGJ-UHFFFAOYSA-N ::: ::: ::: ::: (reagent used in lithation reactions, imidazole formation, cycloadditions, cyclopropanation reactions, etc.) ::: ::: ::: ::: Alternate Name: chloroketene diethyl acetal, 2-chloroketene diethyl acetal, 2-chloro-1,1-diethoxyethene. ::: ::: ::: ::: Physical Data: bp 73–76 °C/10 torr,1 166 °C / 732–740 torr.2 ::: ::: ::: ::: Solubility: soluble in common organic solvents. ::: ::: ::: ::: Form Supplied in: not commercially available; prepared as a colorless liquid.1 ::: ::: ::: ::: Preparative Methods: dichloroacetaldehyde diethyl acetal in THF is added slowly to a 0 °C suspension of potassium tert-butoxide in THF with vigorous stirring. The cooling bath is replaced by a heating mantle and the mixture is refluxed for 12 h. After cooling to room temperature, the brown reaction mixture is centrifuged. The pellets are washed with THF and centrifuged again. The combined supernatants are concentrated and the residue is fractionally distilled to give a quantitative yield of analytically pure ketene acetal.1 ::: ::: ::: ::: Purification: fractionally distilled at reduced pressure. ::: ::: ::: ::: Handling, Storage, and Precautions: the title compound is a mutagen and should be handled with caution in a well-ventilated hood. Suitable traps should be used.
The hepatotoxic effects induced by 1,1-dichloroethylene (DCE) are ascribed to cytochrome P-450 (CYP) 2E1-dependent formation of metabolites including 2,2-dichloroacetaldehyde and the DCE-epoxide. The DCE metabolites detected in incubations of liver microsomes are the acetal, the hydrate of 2,2-dichloroacetaldehyde, and the epoxide-derived GSH conjugates 2-S-glutathionyl acetyl glutathione ([B]) and 2-S-glutathionyl acetate ([C]). This study was undertaken to determine whether these DCE metabolites are also formed in vivo in murine liver. HPLC analysis of cytosol isolated from the livers of mice treated with [(14)C]DCE showed that [C] was the major conjugate formed, with lower levels of formation of [B]. The acetal was not detected in the cytosol. The formation of the epoxide-derived GSH conjugates was dose-dependent at 25 to 225 mg/kg DCE and occurred coincidentally with levels of covalent binding of DCE at the same doses. The acetal and conjugates [B] and [C] were also detected in bile collected from mice treated with DCE. Pretreatment of mice with buthionine sulfoximine decreased sulfhydryl levels and formation of conjugate [C], and increased DCE binding to liver proteins. In contrast, the levels of [C] and DCE binding were both reduced significantly in mice pretreated with the CYP2E1 inhibitor diallyl sulfone. Immunohistochemical studies indicated that protein adducts and conjugate [C] were localized in centrilobular hepatocytes and corresponded with the sites where CYP2E1 resided. Pretreatment with buthionine sulfoximine increased the amount of immunostaining. However, pretreatment with diallyl sulfone markedly decreased immunostaining for [C] in the hepatocytes. These results showed that 2,2-dichloroacetaldehyde and the epoxide are formed from DCE in vivo.
Abstract The 3, N 4 -ethenocytosine (ɛC) residue might have biological role in vivo since it is recognized and efficiently excised in vitro by the E. coli mismatch-specific uracil-DNA glycosylase (MUG) and the human thymine-DNA glycosylase (hTDG). In the present work we have generated mug defective mutant of E. coli by insertion of a kanamycin cassette to assess the role of MUG in vivo. We show that human TDG complements the enzymatic activity of MUG when expressed in a mug mutant. The ɛC-DNA glycosylase defective strain did not exhibit spontaneous mutator phenotype and did not show unusual sensitivity to any of the following DNA damaging treatments: methylmethanesulfonate, N -methyl- N ′-nitro- N -nitrosoguanidine, ultraviolet light, H 2 O 2 , paraquat. However, plasmid DNA damaged by 2-chloroacetaldehyde treatment in vitro was inactivated at a greater rate in a mug mutant than in wild-type host, suggesting that MUG is required for the in vivo processing of the ethenobases. In addition, 2-chloroacetaldehyde treatment induces preferentially G·C → C·G and A·T → T·A transversions in mug mutant. Comparison of the mutation frequencies induced by the site-specifically incorporated ɛC residue in E. coli wild-type versus mug indicates that MUG repairs more than 80% of ɛC residues in vivo. Furthermore, the results show that nucleotide excision repair and recombination are not involved in the processing of ɛC in E. coli . Based on the mutagenesis data we suggest that ɛC may be less toxic and less mutagenic than expected. The increased spontaneous mutation rate for G·C → A·T transition in the ung mug double mutant as compared to the single ung mutant suggest that MUG may be a back-up repair enzyme to the classic uracil-DNA glycosylase.
Etheno adducts are formed in the reactions of DNA bases with chloroacetaldehyde, with lipid peroxidation products, and also with metabolites of vinyl chloride and furan. The presence of such modifications in the genetic material may lead to errors in replication with consequences of mutations and even carcinogenesis. For an understanding of the biological significance of etheno adducts it is important to determine their structures. Structural identification is also essential for using these adducts as inflammatory or cancer biomarkers. This paper reports structural studies on two adducts formed in the reactions of malonaldehyde and glyoxal with adenosine (M1Gx-A), and malonaldehyde and methylglyoxal with 2′-deoxyadenosine (M1MGx-dA). NMR spectroscopy and theoretical methods have been used. DFT-GIAO calculations were performed at M06/6-311++G(2df,2pd), B3LYP/6-311++G(2df,2pd) and M06/6-31++G(d,p) levels both in the gas phase and taking into account the effect of solvents (water, methanol and DMSO) using PCM approximation. It has been shown that when M06 or B3LYP functionals with the 6-311++G(2df,2pd) basis set are used, 1H NMR chemical shifts very close to experimental values are obtained and that the results of GIAO calculations at the M06/6-31++G(d,p) level have a better correlation with measured 13C NMR chemical shift values. PCM improves the correlation of results in both cases.
Chlorinated acetaldehydes have been the focus of research due to their role as reactive intermediates and their possible occurrence in chlorinated drinking water. This study investigated the in vitro substrate specificity of cytosolic and mitochondrial rat liver aldehyde dehydrogenase toward these compounds. Monochloroacetaldehyde was found to be extensively metabolized by these enzymes, to an even greater extent than the standard substrate propionaldehyde. Dichloroacetaldehyde was metabolized to a much lesser extent, and chloral hydrate is not metabolized by this enzyme family. The Km (mM) and Vmax (Vmax for propionaldehyde set to 100) values with the low Km cytosolic enzyme were monochloroacetaldehyde 0.046 and 582, and dichloroacetaldehyde 0.13 and 54.9, and those with the high Km cytosolic enzyme were dichloroacetaldehyde 0.35 and 23.4. The values with the low Km mitochondrial enzyme were monochloroacetaldehyde 0.057 and 462 and dichloroacetaldehyde 0.038 and 12.9, and those with the high Km mitochondrial enzyme were monocloroacetaldehyde 0.024 and 55.5 and dichloroacetaldehyde 0.29 and 3.44. These data suggest that aldehyde dehydrogenase plays a significant role in the metabolism of monochloroacetaldehyde and, to some extent, dichloroacetaldehyde. Some evidence also suggested that alcohol dehydrogenase plays a significant role in the metabolism of dichloroacetaldehyde and chloral hydrate.
The structural distortions of the duplex dodecamer d(ATTAACGTTAAT)2 monofunctionally alkylated by mitomycin C have been studied by the use of chemical probes reactivity and resonance Raman spectroscopy. This sequence contains the 5'-ACGT sequence for which mitomycin C was determined to present the best affinity (S. Kumar, R. Lipman, and M. Tomasz, Biochemistry 31, 1399 (1992)). Raman spectroscopy as well as osmium tetroxyde reactivity indicate that the distortion of the double helix structure is located around the central CG bases. Mitomycin C reacts exclusively with the 2-amino group of guanine and this binding does not disrupt the inter bases H-bonds, as indicated by chloroacetaldehyde reactivity. Although resonance Raman spectroscopy does not allow the handedness of the monoalkylated CG/GC sequence to be determined, it indicates a similarity between the base stacking and that which would be observed for alternating purine/pyrimidine sequences at high salt concentration.
Etheno adducts are formed in the reactions of DNA bases with chloroacetaldehyde, with lipid peroxidation products, and also with metabolites of vinyl chloride and furan. The presence of such modifications in the genetic material may lead to errors in replication with consequences of mutations and even carcinogenesis. For an understanding of the biological significance of etheno adducts it is important to determine their structures. Structural identification is also essential for using these adducts as inflammatory or cancer biomarkers. This paper reports structural studies on two adducts formed in the reactions of malonaldehyde and glyoxal with adenosine (M 1 Gx-A), and malonaldehyde and methylglyoxal with 2 0 -deoxyadenosine (M 1 MGx-dA). NMR spectroscopy and theoretical methods have been used.
2-Chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), a metabolite of the carcinogenic industrial chemical vinyl chloride, reacts with single-stranded DNA to form the cyclic etheno lesions predominantly at adenine and cytosine. In both ethenoadenine and ethenocytosine, normal Watson-Crick hydrogen-bonding atoms are compromised. We have recently shown that CAA adduction leads to efficient mutagenesis in Escherichia coli predominantly at cytosines, and less efficiently at adenines. About 80% of the mutations at cytosines were C-to-T transitions, and the remainder were C-to-A transversions, a result similar to that of many noninstructional DNA lesions opposite which adenine residues are preferentially incorporated. It is widely believed that noninstructional lesions stop replication and depend on SOS functions for efficient mutagenesis. We have examined the effects of in vitro CAA adduction of the lacZ alpha gene of phage M13AB28 on in vivo mutagenesis in SOS-(UV)-induced E. coli. CAA adduction was specifically directed to a part of the lacZ sequence within M13 replicative form DNA by a simple experimental strategy, and the DNA was transfected into appropriate unirradiated or UV-irradiated cells. Mutant progeny were defined by DNA sequencing. In parallel in vitro experiments, the effects of CAA adduction on DNA replication by E. coli DNA polymerase I large (Klenow) fragment were examined. Our data do not suggest a strong SOS dependence for mutagenesis at cytosine lesions. While adenine lesions remain much less mutagenic than cytosine lesions, mutation frequency at adenines is increased by SOS. SOS induction does not significantly alter the specificity of base changes at cytosines or adenines.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The iridium-catalyzed asymmetric allylic substitution under biphasic conditions is reported. This approach allows the use of various unstable and/or volatile nucleophiles including hydrazines, methylamine, t-butyl hydroperoxide, N-hydroxylamine, α-chloroacetaldehyde and glutaraldehyde. This transformation provides rapid access to a broad range of products from simple starting materials in good yields and up to >99% ee and 20:1 d.r. Additionally, these products can be elaborated efficiently into a diverse set of cyclic and acyclic compounds, bearing up to four stereocenters.
5591 Ifosfamide (IFM) is an useful prodrug with cytochrome P450 metabolisation associated to both antitumor activity and toxicities such as urotoxicity, nephrotoxicity and neurotoxicity. Isophosphoramide mustard is the bisalkylating active metabolite and acrolein, the urotoxic one. Since acrolein toxicity is limited by systematic coadministration of mesna, the urotoxicity incidence has been lowered. Current evidence suggests that chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), a IFM metabolite from the side-chain oxidation is responsible for both neurotoxicity and nephrotoxicity (Kerbusch T,et. al. Clin. Pharmacokinet. 2001 , 40(1) , 41-62). To prevent CAA formation, side chain-methylated ifosfamide analogs ( i.e. C 7 , C 9 -dimethyl-ifosfamide) have been enantioselectively synthesised in our laboratory (Paci A, et. al. Bioorg. Med. Chem. Lett. 2001 , 11(10) , 1347-1349). To confirm our hypothesis, two topics have to be evaluated: anticancer activity, through the liberation of alkylating nitrogen mustard, and reduced toxicogenic catabolism. First a mechanistic study by phosphorus Nuclear Magnetic Resonance ( 31 P-NMR) kinetic is efficient to estimate oxazaphosphorine mustards alkylating activity (Boal JH, et. al . J. Med. Chem. 1989 , 32(8) , 1768-1773). The alkylating activity of the modified mustards generated by these new side chain-substituted IFM analogs in comparison to IFM mustard will be presented. Second, as metabolic and toxicologic studies, we developed a HPLC-MS/MS technique to evaluate in vitro biotransformation of the asymmetrically synthesised IFM analogs by human hepatic microsomes containing CYP3A4 and 2B6 (Storme T, et. al. J. Chrom. B Biomed. Anal. 2005 , 820(2), 251-259). In order to evaluate their cytotoxicities, co-culture of 9L glioblastoma cells and of induced rat microsomes was performed (Baldwin A, et. al. Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 2003 , 409(1), 197-206). These co-cultures experiences demontrate that these new analogs are more cytotoxic than IFM i.e. CI50 0.08 µM for analogs vs 0.5 µM for IFM. Cell cycle effect is under investigation. I n vitro biotransformation of analogs showed an N -deschloroethylation process as with IFM. Nevertheless, this metabolisation leads to chloroacetone, less reactive than CAA. Nephrotoxicity of chloroacetone will be compared with CAA on a rat model which is being developed. These new dimethylated analogs of IFM are more cytotoxic than IFM metabolites. After these first tests, the most promising component will be selected to attempt in vivo studies of its anti-tumor activity and nephrotoxic side effect.
Background ::: ALKBH proteins, the homologs of Escherichia coli AlkB dioxygenase, constitute a direct, single-protein repair system, protecting cellular DNA and RNA against the cytotoxic and mutagenic activity of alkylating agents, chemicals significantly contributing to tumor formation and used in cancer therapy. In silico analysis and in vivo studies have shown the existence of AlkB homologs in almost all organisms. Nine AlkB homologs (ALKBH1–8 and FTO) have been identified in humans. High ALKBH levels have been found to encourage tumor development, questioning the use of alkylating agents in chemotherapy. The aim of this work was to assign biological significance to multiple AlkB homologs by characterizing their activity in the repair of nucleic acids in prokaryotes and their subcellular localization in eukaryotes. ::: Methodology and Findings ::: Bioinformatic analysis of protein sequence databases identified 1943 AlkB sequences with eight new AlkB subfamilies. Since Cyanobacteria and Arabidopsis thaliana contain multiple AlkB homologs, they were selected as model organisms for in vivo research. Using E. coli alkB− mutant and plasmids expressing cyanobacterial AlkBs, we studied the repair of methyl methanesulfonate (MMS) and chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) induced lesions in ssDNA, ssRNA, and genomic DNA. On the basis of GFP fusions, we investigated the subcellular localization of ALKBHs in A. thaliana and established its mostly nucleo-cytoplasmic distribution. Some of the ALKBH proteins were found to change their localization upon MMS treatment. ::: Conclusions ::: Our in vivo studies showed highly specific activity of cyanobacterial AlkB proteins towards lesions and nucleic acid type. Subcellular localization and translocation of ALKBHs in A. thaliana indicates a possible role for these proteins in the repair of alkyl lesions. We hypothesize that the multiplicity of ALKBHs is due to their involvement in the metabolism of nucleo-protein complexes; we find their repair by ALKBH proteins to be economical and effective alternative to degradation and de novo synthesis.
Adenine-containing residues on thin-layer or paper chromatograms, when treated with chloroacetaldehyde at 70–80°C, produce highly fluorescent products which are readily visible at the 0.5-μg level under an ultraviolet lamp. In neutral aqueous solution, they can be detected at concentrations in the range of 10−8 M.
0 Chloroacetaldehyde, a probable metabolite of 2-chlorc- ethanol (ethylene chlorohydrin), was studied in a number of itz oiuo animal systems, in in oitro hemolysis tests, and in tissue cultures to obtain a toxicity profile of the compound. Acute toxicity tests were conducted in mice, rats, guinea pigs, and rabbits by one or more routes of administration. Tissue culture tests utilized both the agar- overlay and protein assay methods. Irritant activity was evaluated by intramuscular implantation, intradermal injection, and dermal and ophthalmic applications in the rabbit. Acute cardiovascular effects in rabbits were also determined. Sleeping-time tests in mice were con- ducted t o assess the effect of chloroaeetaldehyde pretreatment (in- halation and intraperitoneal) upon drug-metabolizing enzymes. The compound was tested in guinea pigs for its sensitizing potential. Cumulative (30 daily injections) and subacute (three injections per week for 12 weeks) toxicity studies were conducted to evaluate subtle toxic effects (e.g., weight gain, hematology, and histopathology) as well as lethality. Chloroacetaldehyde is a very toxic and irritating compound in acute tests; in tests of longer duration, most of the parameters measured appeared to be normal in animals that sur- vived its lethal activity. The acute toxic effects of chloroacetaldehyde are compared with those of 2-chloroethanol. The former is inher- ently more toxic and irritating, while the latter exhibits greater ease of quantitative penetration through the GI tract and the intact skin. Key phrases 0 Chloroacetaldehyde-toxicity, compared to ethylene chlorohydrin IJToxicity-chloroacetaIdehyde,compared to ethylene chlorohydrin Chloroacetaldehyde (CICH2CHO) is a liquid at room temperature. As the anhydrous material, it polymerizes on standing ( I ) and, in aqueous solutions in excess of 50z, forms a half-hydrate which precipitates as white crystals (2). It is intensely irritating to human eyes, skin, mucous membranes, and the respiratory tract ( I ) , and its highly toxic nature is suggested by its “threshold limit value” (TLV) of 1 p.p.m., which should not be allowed to fluctuate above this amount even for short periods of time (3). The uses of chloroacetaldehyde as well as its physical and chemical properties were pre- sented previously (1, 2). Ethylene oxide sterilization of plastics, spices, and foods, in the presence of chlorides, produces 2-chloro- ethanol as a reaction product. Johnson (4), in studies conducted on rats, indicated that 2-chloroethanol was Vol. 61, No. I , Jatiuary 1972 IJ 19
Chloroacetaldehyde-modified poly(rC) or poly(dC) was prepared containing either 8-36% 3,N4-ethenocytidine (epsilon C) or 8-36% of a mixture of epsilon C and the hydrated epsilon C (epsilon C . H2O), with the hydrate greatly predominating (greater than 90%). These ribo- and deoxyribonucleotide templates were transcribed with DNA-dependent RNA polymerases from Escherichia coli and calf thymus, in the presence of either Mn2+ or Mg2+ and all four ribonucleoside triphosphates. All the polymers tested were transcribed with either cation present. In an earlier report from this laboratory [Spengler, S., & Singer, B. (1981) Nucleic Acids Res. 9. 365], transcriptional ambiguities resulting from epsilon C residues in enzymatically synthesized poly(rC, epsilon rC) were studied with E. coli DNA-dependent RNA polymerase in the presence of Mn2+. The misincorporations there reported were confirmed when poly(rC, epsilon rC) and poly(dC, epsilon dC), prepared by reaction of poly(rC) and poly(dC) with CAA, were transcribed in the presence of either Mn2+ or Mg2+. We now report that the presence of hydrated epsilon C in polymers also leads to misincorporations but with reproducible differences from those found with epsilon C alone. Nearest-neighbor analysis of the transcription products showed that the hydrate caused misincorporation of A greater than U much greater than C while epsilon C caused misincorporation of U greater than A much greater than C. The extent of misincorporation in transcription was less with Mg2+ than with Mn2+, but the pattern of ambiguity was the same with both cations and with both ribo- and deoxyribocytidylate polymers. Calf thymus DNA-dependent RNA polymerase IIB was also used to transcribe deoxyribocytidine polymers with Mn2+ as the cation. epsilon C and epsilon C . H2O both caused a high level of misincorporation of U , A, and C, but the preferred misincorporations differed slightly from those found with E. coli DNA-dependent RNA polymerase. For both prokaryotic and eukaryotic enzymes, the type of misincorporation resulting from the loss of hydrogen bonding by modification of the N-3 of C not only differed between epsilon C and the hydrated intermediate but also both differed from the transcriptional errors resulting from the presence of 3-methylcytidine in poly(dC) or poly(rC). We conclude that the errors made by these polymerases during transcription do not result primarily from the conditions used (cation, ribo- or deoxyribotemplate) but must be at least in part attributed to the enzyme recognizing some facet of the modified base other than the lack of normal hydrogen bonding.
Abstract A derivatization high-performance liquid chromatographic method with ultraviolet detection to monitor the plasma concentration of chloroacetaldehyde, a neurotoxic metabolite of oxazaphosphorine drugs, is presented. To prevent the rapid degradation of chloroacetaldehyde, the plasma samples are stabilized with formaldehyde. The method is linear in the concentration range 1–250 nmol/ml. Blood samples from a patient who was treated with a ten-day continuous infusion of ifosfamide were assayed. The chloroacetaldehyde concentrations did not exceed 10 nmol/ml.
trans-1,2-Bis(2-pyrrolyl)ethenes (e.g. 18−20) are prepared by McMurry-type reductive coupling of the corresponding 2-formylpyrroles. The isomeric 1,1-bis(2-pyrrolyl)ethenes (e.g. 24) are prepared as a minor byproduct in the reaction of 2-unsubstituted pyrroles (e.g. 22) with acetic anhydride under Friedel−Crafts conditions; the major product, as expected is the 2-acetylpyrrole 23. However, 5-(chloromethyl)dipyrromethanes (e.g. 35) can be obtained in high yield by reaction of 2-unsubstituted pyrroles 22 with chloroacetaldehyde diethyl acetal. Base-catalyzed elimination of HCl from 35 affords the 1,1-bis(2-pyrrolyl)ethene 24 along with the trans- and cis-1,2-bis(2-pyrrolyl)ethenes 18 and 36, respectively. Conditions are optimized to afford a 66% yield of the 1,1-bis(2-pyrrolyl)ethene 24. In neutral organic solvents, 1,1-bis(2-pyrrolyl)ethenes exist in the ethene tautomeric form 2, rather than as the corresponding 5-methyldipyrromethene isomer 3; however, under acidic conditions, the 5-methyldipyrromethene s...
The invention relates to new 2,4-diphenyloxazoline compounds, and a synthesis method and acaricidal activity thereof. The structure of the compounds provided by the invention has certain similarities with that of the existing acaricide Etoxazole, and is disclosed as a structural formula I, wherein R1 is a substituent pyridyl group or substituent phenyl group. The synthesis method comprises the following steps: by using meta-tert-butyl phenol, 2,6-difluorobenzoic acid and chloroacetaldehyde dimethyl acetal as the initial raw materials, carrying out etherification, nitrification, amidation, condensation, Friedel-Craft reaction, cyclization, catalytic hydrogenation, amidation and the like to obtain the compounds. Most of the compounds have acaricidal activity. The inhibition rates of the compound 2a and the compound 2g with the test concentration of 100mg/L for carminespider mite eggs are respectively 100% and 95%.
Endogenous lipid peroxidation products such as malondialdehyde, crotonaldehyde, and 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal are particularly potent in forming adducts during periods of oxidative stress. 1 The type and quantity of fatty acids in the diet is also of significance in those trans-fatty acids, and their metabolic derivatives seem to lead to excessive formation of adducts. The initial identification of exocyclic adducts was in the 1960s; numerous studies have been reported on the identification, chemistry, and biology of various exocyclic adducts originating from both environmental and industrial sources 2 [1,N 2 -ethenodeoxyguanosine, N 2 ,3-ethenodeoxyguanosine ( dG), 3,N 4 -ethenodeoxycytidine ( dC), and 1,N 6 -ethenodeoxyadenosine ( dA) produced by chloroethylene oxide and chloroacetaldehyde, reactive metabolites of the human carcinogen, vinyl chloride]. dA and dC have also been identified in mice treated with vinyl carbamate or ethyl carbamate. 3 Recently, these two adducts were shown to exist in liver DNA of untreated rats and humans, 4 suggesting their formation from certain endogenous sources. In fact, Ghissassi et al. 5 have shown that lipid peroxidation products cause the formation of dA and dC. The levels of DNA adducts in human leucocytes has been found to vary with a number of lifestyle, environmental, and chemical-exposure factors. Cancers with poorly defined etiology may be explained once DNA adducts are identified. It has been reported that the existence of DNA adducts bring the danger of carcinogenesis because of mispairing with normal DNA bases. 4 Exocyclic DNA adducts are a unique class of ring-extended modifications 6 formed by a wild range of chemicals. DNA adducts play a role in vinyl chloride induced tumorigenisis. 7 DNA adducts are also implicated in many types of human cancer, especially where persistent oxidative stress leads to malignancy by increasing mutations and genomic instability at the DNA level. The detection of DNA adducts as promutagenic markers enables, in some patients, an understanding of cancer risk. It also defines and promotes active intervention measures aimed at reducing exposure to the offending chemicals or moderation of the endogenous processes responsible for some adducts. This is particularly so where the level of and destructive activity of metal adducts can be reduced by the use of nutritionally important.
Ab initioRHF/6-31G(d) calculations of 2,2-dichlorocyclohexanone, chloropropanone, and chloroacetaldehyde molecules were performed. In 2,2-dichlorocyclohexanone, the carbonyl group exerts different effects on the axial and equatorial C-Cl bonds. At rotation of the C(O)CH3 group in chloropropanone and C(O)H group in chloroacetaldehyde around the C-C bond, the population of the 3p component of the chlorine valence pz orbital varies in the opposite direction with the calculated 35Cl NQR frequency and, in the case of chloroacetaldehyde, with the charge on the oxygen atom.
Negative superhelical strain induces the poly(dG)-poly(dC) sequence to adopt two totally different types of triple-helices, either a dG.dG.dC triplex in the presence of Mg(+)+ at both neutral and acidic pHs or a protonated dC+.dG.dC triplex in the absence of Mg(+)+ ions at acidic pH (1). To examine whether there are still other types of non-B DNA structures formed by the same sequence, we constructed supercoiled plasmid DNAs harboring varying lengths of the poly(dG) tract, and the structures adopted by each supercoiled plasmid DNA were studied with a chemical probe, chloroacetaldehyde. The potential of a poly(dG)-poly(dC) sequence to adopt non-B DNA structures depends critically on the length of the tract. Furthermore, in the presence of Mg(+)+ and at a mildly acidic pH, in addition to the expected dG.dG.dC triplex detected for the poly(dG) tracts of 14 to 30 base pairs (bp), new structures were also detected for the tracts longer than 35 bp. The structure formed by a poly(dG) tract of 45 bp revealed chemical reaction patterns consistent with a dG.dG.dC triplex and protonated dC+.dG.dC triple-helices fused together. This structure lacks single-stranded stretches typical of intramolecular triplexes.
N-Halomethylpyridinium halides 1a-f (X-CH(2)Py(+)X(-), X = Cl, Br) have been synthesized from a three-component reaction mixture containing a thionyl halide 5, formaldehyde (6), and a pyridine 7. The salts 1a-f react readily with a variety of heterocyclic nucleophiles to yield (in general, nonsymmetrical) 1,1-bis(heteroarylium)methyl salts 2ea-hb, (pathway a). The use of trichloroacetaldehyde (9) instead of formaldehyde in this three-component reaction leads to a salt 10 in which one of the CH(2)-hydrogens was replaced by the electron-withdrawing CCl(3) substituent. This changes the standard reaction pathway a of 1 in solution toward nucleophiles completely: the chlorinated N-vinylpyridinium salts 11 and 12 were formed after the reaction of 10 with pyridine or triphenylphosphane. These are useful intermediates for the synthesis of new N- and 4-substituted 1,4-dihydropyridines 13-15 as could be demonstrated for compound 11. To explain the reactivity pattern of compounds 1 and 10 and the related structures (MeO-CH(2)Py(+), 16, and Me(3)SiO-CH(2)Py(+), 17) we calculated, using ab initio and DFT methods, reaction pathways a and b, both in the gas phase and in solution using ammonia as a model nucleophile. For all of these compounds, pyridine displacement (pathway b) dominates in the gas phase. As an example the energy gap between these two transition states for 1a turns out to be relatively small (11.6 kcal/mol in favor of pathway b, TS2). Solvation effects can therefore stabilize the corresponding transition state TS1 more effectively. In a MeCN solution, TS1 is 1.6 kcal/mol less energetic than TS2.
Abstract The misuse of dichlorvos (DDVP), an organophosphorus insecticide, results in many instances of poisoning. This paper describes a new spray reagent for selective detection of dichlorvos in biological materials by thin-layer chromatography. Dichlorvos in presence of moisture breaks down to dichloroacetaldehyde which in turn reacts with phenylhydrazine hydrochloride to give a yellowish red colour. In acidic media the colour is intensified and consequently the sensitivity of detection increases. The reagent is selective for dichlorvos, other organophosphorus insecticides failed to give a coloured spot. Moreover organochlorine, carbamate and synthetic pyrethroid insecticides or even constituents of visceral extracts (amino acids, peptides, proteins etc.) do not interfere. The limit of detection is ca 10 μg.
Abstract The addition of the substrate analog chloroacetaldehyde to the dioldehydrase-coenzyme B12 complex results in the appearance of an electron spin resonance signal at g = 2.2 and multiple signals at g = 2.0, amounting to a total of ∼2 unpaired electrons per molecule of enzyme-bound coenzyme. Substitution of deuterium for protium at the C-2 positions of chloroacetaldehyde results in a ∼5-G narrowing of the transition at g = 2.0 and in an additional transition in the g = 2.0 region, at 3285 G. Substitution of chloroacetaldehyde, uniformly enriched to 90% with 13C, results in a ∼10-G broadening of the signals at g = 2.0. No effect of such isotopic substitution is detected in the signal at g = 2.2, and little residual effect is noted at g = 2.0 after a 5-min preincubation. These results establish the transient appearance of spin density on carbon and possibly on hydrogen atoms derived from chloroacetaldehyde and partially assign the signals at g = 2.0 to radicals derived from chloroacetaldehyde. The presence of unpaired spin density on the methylene hydrogens of the substrate analog, the unusually wide ESR signals at g = 2.0 even at liquid nitrogen temperature, and the large kinetic isotope effects previously found with dioldehydrase, all suggest the participation of hydrogen atom transfer reactions in catalysis by coenzyme B12 enzymes.
Abstract This study investigated the relationship between both acute and chronic nephrotoxic effects of ifosfamide (IFO) and its metabolism. 15 paediatric patients (4 girls) were investigated. Each received 6–9 g/m 2 IFO over 15 days, repeated every 3 weeks for up to 16 courses. The pharmacokinetics and metabolism of IFO were measured during its administration, either as a continuous 72 h infusion or as three bolus doses of 3 g/m 2 on consecutive days. In 8 patients, the metabolism of IFO was investigated during one early course and one late course to determine the magnitude of any changes following repeated administration. Acute measures of renal toxicity were not correlated with any of the IFO pharmacokinetic or metabolic parameters in the same course, whether the drug was administered as a bolus or by continuous infusion. Chronic renal toxicity, determined 1 month ( n = 13) or 6 months ( n = 8) after treatment, did not correlate with any of the IFO pharmacokinetic or metabolic parameters in any individual course of treatment. The overall degree of nephrotoxicity, however, was correlated with the changes in metabolism between late and early courses ( n = 8). There was a negative correlation between the change in area under the curve of the dechloroethylated metabolites of IFO and the overall nephrotoxicity at 1 month or 6 months after treatment (both r 2 = 0.66, P = 0.014). The results imply that patients in whom metabolism via dechloroethylation decreases are at a greater risk of chronic nephrotoxicity. This is contrary to the hypothesis that the systemic production of chloroacetaldehyde is the mechanism by which IFO causes nephrotoxicity. The importance of acute and chronic changes in renal function for long-term outcome remains to be determined.
While natural organic matter (NOM) surrogates are established in disinfection byproduct (DBP) research, their use in fractionation studies is rare. To understand how surrogates relate to drinking waters, a range of NOM surrogates were fractionated with XAD resins. Their trihalomethane (THM), haloacetic acid (HAA), haloacetaldehyde, haloacetonitrile, and haloketone formations after chlorination were recorded. While compounds with higher log KOW values behaved as hydrophobic acids, fractionation of the more hydrophilic compounds did not clearly correlate to the log KOW. High HAA formation from ferulic and aspartic acids and 1,1,1-trichloropropanone (1,1,1-TCP) formation from 3-oxopropanoic acid were notable. Three amino acids, asparagine, aspartic acid, and tryptophan, formed significant levels of dichloroacetonitrile (DCAN) and trichloroacetaldehyde (TCA). Formation of DBPs did not correlate to any compound physical property; however, there were several correlations between DBP groups. The most significant were between dichloroacetic acid (DCAA) and dichloroacetonitrile (DCAN), DCAN and TCA, and dichloroacetaldehyde (DCA) and trichloroacetaldehyde, indicating the possibility of similar relationships in natural waters.
Dioldehydrase is an adenosylcobalamin-dependent enzyme that catalyzes the dehydration of (R)- or (S)-propane-1,2-diol to propanal. The reaction proceeds by a radical mechanism initiated by the homolytic scission of the covalent CoC(5′) bond in the coenzyme to form cob(II)alamin and the 5-deoxyadenosyl radical as transient intermediates. Dioldehydrase is subject to ‘suicide inactivation’ by substrate/product analogs. Inactivation by 2-chloroacetaldehyde converts the inactivator into the ‘cis-ethanesemidione’ radical. A mechanism for this process includes reaction of chloroacetaldehyde in the reverse of the normal catalytic process to a rearranged radical that eliminates HCl. K+ and other monovalent cations of similar size, including Tl+, are required for dioldehydrase activity and for suicide inactivation by glycolaldehyde or 2-chloroacetaldehyde. A K+ ion is bound to propane-1,2-diol in dioldehydrase. Both EPR and pulsed-EPR experiments show that the magnetic nuclei of thallous ions (203Tl+, 205Tl+) do not interact with the unpaired electron in the cis-ethanesemidione radical at the active site of dioldehydrase. Pulsed-EPR experiments implicate a 14NH group, possibly of His143, interacting with the radical at the active site.
Abstract The gas-phase structure of dichloroacetaldehyde oxime (Cl 2 CH–CH NOH, DCAO), was determined by gas-phase electron diffraction (GED) combined with microwave (MW) spectroscopic data. The nozzle temperature in the GED experiment was about 53°C. Structural constraints in the GED data analysis were obtained by the ab initio MO calculation of DCAO at the MP2/6-31G(d, p) level of theory. Vibrational amplitudes, shrinkage corrections for the data analysis of GED and vibrational corrections of the experimental rotational constants were calculated from the harmonic force constants given by normal coordinate analysis. The ( E )-isomer with the dihedral angle of φ (ClCCN)=119.7(2)° was the dominant conformer. The MW spectroscopic investigation and the optimized structure in the ab initio calculations were consistent with the present result. The population of the dominant conformer was 80(1)%. The results of the data analysis indicated that there were two other conformers involved, whose conformations and populations were: ( E )-isomer with one chlorine atom on the plane of the molecular skeleton (10(1)%) and ( Z )-isomer with φ of about 105° (10(1)%). The principal bond distances and angles ( r g /A and ∠ α /deg) of the dominant conformer, ( E )-isomer, were: r (C–C)=1.497(8); r (C N)=1.281(4); r (C–Cl)=1.784(2); r (N–O)=1.415(4); ∠CCN=117.0(8); ∠CCCl=109.4(3); ∠CNO=111.1(5); and ∠NOH=97.2(50). The values in parentheses were three times the standard deviations.
Etheno (ε) DNA adducts, including 1,N(6)-ethenoadenine (εA), are formed by various bifunctional agents of exogenous and endogenous origin. The AT→TA transversion, the most frequent mutation provoked by the presence of εA in DNA, is very common in critical codons of the TP53 and RAS genes in tumours induced by exposure to carcinogenic vinyl compounds. Here, using a method that allows examination of the mutagenic potency of a metabolite of vinyl chloride, chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), but eliminates its cytotoxicity, we studied the participation of alkA, alkB and mug gene products in the repair of εA in Escherichia coli cells. The test system used comprised the pIF105 plasmid bearing the lactose operon of CC105 origin, which allowed monitoring of Lac(+) revertants that arose by AT→TA substitutions due to the modification of adenine by CAA. The plasmid was CAA-modified in vitro and replicated in E.coli of various genetic backgrounds (wt, alkA, alkB, mug, alkAalkB, alkAmug and alkBmug). To modify the levels of the AlkA and AlkB proteins, mutagenesis was studied in E.coli cells induced or not in adaptive response to alkylating agents. Considering the levels of CAA-induced Lac(+) revertants in strains harbouring the CAA-modified pIF105 plasmid and induced or not in adaptive response, we conclude that the AlkB dioxygenase plays a major role in decreasing the level of AT→TA mutations, thus in the repair of εA in E.coli cells. The observed differences of mutation frequencies in the various mutant strains assayed indicate that Mug glycosylase is also engaged in the repair of εA, whereas the role the AlkA glycosylase in this repair is negligible.
Acetaldehyde and chloral were copolymerized using triethyl aluminum catalyst. The copolymer (ACC) obtained with equimolar monomer feed is not alternating in structure as it was once thought to be; it is comprised of two fractions differing in MW and composition. ACC has good thermal stability which is further improved by endcapping. Radiolysis in vacuo caused depolymerization with a G(M) value (number of monomers produced per 100 eV) of about 4000 to 80% completion. The G(S) value for chain scission is 1.9. These processes are effectively inhibited by benzoquinone. Oxygen markedly increases G(M) to ca. 18,000 and > 97% completion. Addition of tetrabutyl ammonium salt or tetramethyl urea has no effect on the depolymerization, whereas the addition of di-t-butyl-p-cresol causes an induction period after which normal unzipping ensues. Even UV photolysis of ACC in the presence of oxygen produces monomer with a quantum yield of 1.7, but very little photolysis occurs in the absence of oxygen. Gamma radiolysis sensitized by (C6H5)2IPF6 has G(M) value of 32,700. These results are very similar to the radiolysis and photolysis of the homopolymer of monochloroacetaldehyde and reinforce the mechanisms proposed for them. The E-beam sensitivity of ACC is about 3 × 10−6 C cm−2.
The photooxidation of allyl chloride was studied by irradiation either in 100-L Teflon bags or in a 22.7-m3 Teflon smog chamber in the presence of added NOx. In the absence of added hydrocarbons, the reaction involves a Cl atom chain, which leads to a highly reactive system. A reaction mechanism is presented to account for the following photooxidation products: chloroacetaldehyde, formaldehyde, 1,3-dichloroacetone, 3-chloroacrolein, acrolein, glyoxal, chloroperoxyacetyl nitrate, and peroxypropenyl nitrate. The rate constant for OH reaction with allyl chloride at 298 K was measured by a relative rate method under conditions where the Cl atom chain length was small and was found to be kOH = 1.7 × 10−11 cm3 molecule−1 s−1. The rate constant for O3 reaction with allylchloride at 298 K was found to be kO3 = 1.5 × 10−18 cm3 molecule−1 s−1.
High-level ab initio calculations have been used to study the mechanism for the inactivation of diol dehydratase (DDH) by glycolaldehyde or 2-chloroacetaldehyde. As in the case of the catalytic substrates of DDH, e.g., ethane-1,2-diol, the 5'-deoxyadenosyl radical (Ado*) is able to abstract a hydrogen atom from both substrate analogues in the initial step on the reaction pathway, as evidenced by comparable energy barriers. However, in subsequent step(s), each substrate analogue produces the highly stable glycolaldehyde radical. The barrier for hydrogen atom reabstraction by the glycolaldehyde radical is calculated to be too high ( approximately 110 kJ mol-1) to allow Ado* to be regenerated and recombine with the cob(II)alamin radical, the latter therefore remaining tightly bound to DDH. As a consequence, the catalytic pathway is disrupted, and DDH becomes an impotent enzyme. Interconversion of equivalent structures of the glycolaldehyde radical via the symmetrical cis-ethanesemidione radical is calculated to require 38 kJ mol-1. EPR indications of a symmetrical cis-ethanesemidione structure are likely to be the result of formation of an equilibrium mixture of glycolaldehyde radical structures, this equilibration being facilitated by partial deprotonation of the glycolaldehyde radical by the carboxylate of an amino acid residue within the active site of DDH.
Rate ::: constants for the reaction of OH radicals with trans-1,2-dichloroethene and 1,1-dichloroethene have been determined at a pressure of 1.6 Torr and at T ::: = 298 ± 2 K using the discharge-flow technique. The ::: same method was used to study for the first time the kinetics of the reactions of atomic Cl with trans-1,2-dichloroethene ::: and with 1,1-dichloroethene at low pressure. The values obtained for the rate constants for the Cl-atom ::: reactions are significantly lower than those published previously, which refer to atmospheric pressure. ::: The rate coefficients are therefore likely to be strongly pressure dependent over the range 1.6–760 Torr. The ::: value obtained at low pressure may be considered as the upper limit of the rate constant for the abstraction channel. The kinetic data obtained are summarised below. ::: The ::: release of atomic chlorine following the reaction of OH radicals with trans-1,2-dichloroethene, 1,1-dichloroethene ::: and vinyl chloride has been observed by a direct method for the first time. The reaction of ::: trans-1,2-dichloroethene with OH radicals gives a yield of Cl atoms that is essentially unity. The yield is ::: independent of the presence of molecular oxygen, suggesting that Cl is released promptly after the addition of ::: OH. Some release of Cl following the reaction of OH with 1,1-dichloroethene occurs in the absence of oxygen, ::: although the release is enhanced by the presence of NO2 in the system. The dominant channel leading to the ::: formation of Cl appears not to be the initial reaction with OH, but rather the decomposition of an alkoxy ::: radical that is formed in a secondary process. The presence of molecular oxygen increases the yield of Cl ::: atoms, probably as a result of increased formation of the alkoxy radical. The lower limit of the yield in the ::: absence of O2 and NO2 is estimated to be 0.03; the corresponding limit when O2 is present is 0.05. Roughly ::: 0.09 Cl atoms are released from vinyl chloride for each OH radical consumed. The release is due to the initial ::: reaction of OH radicals, and the yield appears to correspond to the branching ratio for addition of OH to the ::: more substituted end of the carbon–carbon double bond. FTIR spectroscopic studies were made of the ::: products of reaction of Cl with 2-chloroethanol in the presence of O2. This reaction provides a mimic of the ::: reaction of OH with vinyl chloride in that the same peroxy radical species, CH2(OH)CHClO2, is formed. The ::: only organic products observed are formyl chloride and chloroacetaldehyde. The formyl chloride results from ::: the abstraction of an H atom from the carbon atom bearing the Cl substituent. Formaldehyde formed in the ::: system is photolysed to produce CO, an observed product. Chloroacetaldehyde is formed following the ::: abstraction of a hydrogen from the carbon atom bearing the OH group. The oxidation of vinyl chloride by ::: OH in the atmosphere proceeds ia the formation of CH2(OH)CH2ClO2. In the absence of NOx, the peroxy ::: radical reacts with RO2 to yield the corresponding alkoxy radical. This alkoxy radical appears to decompose ::: in exactly the same way as it does when it has been formed by the reaction of CH2(OH)CH2ClO2 with NO.
Benzene is a ubitiquous human environment mental carcinogen. One of the major metabolites is hydroquinone, which is oxidized in vivo to give p-benzoquinone (p-BQ). Both metabolites are toxic to human cells. p-BQ reacts with DNA to form benzetheno adducts with deoxycytidine, deoxyadenosine, and deoxyguanosine. In this study we have synthesized the exocyclic compounds 3-hydroxy-3-N4-benzetheno-2'-deoxycytidine (p-BQ-dCyd) and 9-hydroxy-1,N6-benzetheno-2'-deoxyadenosine (p-BQ-dAdo), respectively, by reacting deoxycytidine and deoxyadenosine with p-BQ. These were converted to the phosphoamidites, which were then used to prepare site-specific oligonucleotides with either the p-BQ-dCyd or p-BQ-dAdo adduct (pbqC or pbqA in sequences) at two different defined positions. These oligonucleotides were efficiently nicked 5' to the adduct by partially purified HeLa cell extracts--the pbqC-containing oligomer more rapidly than the pbqA-containing oligomer. In contrast to the enzyme binding to derivatives produced by the vinyl chloride metabolite chloroacetaldehyde, the oligonucleotides up to 60-mer containing p-BQ adducts did not bind measurably to the same enzyme preparation in a gel retardation assay. Furthermore, there was no competition for the binding observed between oligonucleotides containing 1,N6-etheno A deoxyadenosine (1,N6-etheno-dAdo; epsilon A in sequences) and these oligomers containing either of the p-BQ adducts, even at 120-fold excess. When highly purified fast protein liquid chromatography (FPLC) enzyme fractions were obtained, there appeared to be two closely eluting nicking activities. One of these enzymes bound and cleaved the epsilon A-containing deoxyoligonucleotide. The other enzyme cleaved the pbqA- and pbqC-containing deoxyoligonucleotides. One additional unexpected fact was that bulk p-BQ-treated salmon sperm DNA did compete effectively with the epsilon A-containing oligonucleotide for protein binding. This raises the possibility that such DNA contains other, as-yet-uncharacterized adducts that are recognized by the same enzyme that recognizes the etheno adducts. In summary, we describe a previously undescribed human DNA repair activity, possibly a glycosylase, that excises from DNA pbqC and pbqA, exocyclic adducts resulting from reaction of deoxycytidine and deoxyadenosine with the benzene metabolite, p-BQ. This glycosylase activity is not identical to the one previously reported from this laboratory as excising the four etheno bases from DNA.
Determination of DNase activity. DNase activity was determined fluorometrically by using a fluorescent DNA analog, poly deoxyribo-1-N 6 ethenoadenylic acid [poly(dεA)] (16). Poly(dεA) substrate was prepared by a chemical modification of poly(dA) (fragment length, 50 bases) with chloroacetaldehyde according to the procedure of Cazenave et al. (3). Kinetic parameters of extracellular DNA hydrolysis were determined by incubating sediment and seawater samples with increasing concentrations of poly(dεA) that had previously been diluted with prefiltered and autoclaved seawater. Autoclaved sediment and seawater samples were utilized as blanks. All samples were incubated in the dark at the in situ temperature and subsequently analyzed fluorometrically. The fluorescence of the samples was converted into the amount of released mononucleotides by using calibration curves obtained from standard solutions of 1,N 6 -ethenoadenine deoxyribose-5Ј-monophosphate. The maximum velocity and half-saturation constant were calculated by using Lineweaver-Burke plots of the reaction velocity versus substrate concentrations. In order to test the specificity of poly(dεA) for the detection of extracellular
The short carbon-chain compounds,such as 1,4-dibromo-2-butene,dimethoxyacetone,2-bromo methyl propionate and chloroacetaldehyde,were used as raw materials to prepare 2,7-dimethyl-2,4,6-octatriene-1,8-dial and γ-chloro methyl tiglate respectively.Then crocetin dimethyl ester was synthesized from the two intermediates.Wittig and Wittig-Horner reaction were applied in the key steps of the construction of carbon carbon double bonds.The results showed that 2,7-dimethyl-2,4,6-octatriene-1,8-dial could be obtained by Wittig-Horner reaction with the yield of 58.7%,while γ-chloro methyl tiglate and crocetin dimethyl ester could be obtained by Wittig reaction with the yield respectively of 74.3% and 78.6%.
The addition of trichloroacetaldehyde (chloral) to an equimolar amount of the lithium alkoxide of (−)borneol gave, after acetylation with acetic anhydride, diastereomers which were separated by gas chromatography. The products resulted from meso and racemic addition of the (−)borneoxide on chloral. Di-addition products with two chloral residues were also isolated but the individual isomers were not identified. Similar studies with the alkoxides of racemic alcohols were also undertaken. An analysis of their addition products suggested that the individual (R) and (S) components of the chiral alkoxides added chloral in a stereochemically preferred manner. This preference was most pronounced for those alkoxides which possess a high degree of steric bulk around their chiral carbon atoms.
1,N6-Ethenodeoxyadenosine (epsilon dA) is one of four exocyclic DNA adducts produced by chloroethylene oxide and chloroacetaldehyde, reactive metabolites of vinyl chloride, a human carcinogen. epsilon dA has also been detected in DNA of the liver of humans and untreated animals, suggesting its formation from endogenous sources. The mutagenic potential of epsilon dA was studied using a single-stranded shuttle vector system in several E. coli strains and in simian kidney cells (COS7). This vector system enables quantitative analysis of translesional synthesis past a site-specifically placed DNA adduct in both hosts owing to the lack of the complementary strand. In experiments with five strains of E. coli, a very limited number of targeted mutations (one epsilon dA-->T, one epsilon dA-->dC, and two epsilon dA-->single base deletion) were observed among 756 transformants in hosts preirradiated with UV; no targeted mutations were observed among 563 transformants in nonirradiated hosts. These results indicate that nonmutagenic base pairings of epsilon dA:T are the almost exclusive events in E. coli. In COS7 cells, the frequency of targeted mutations was 70%, consisting of epsilon dA-->dG (63%), epsilon dA-->T (6%), and epsilon dA-->dC (1%), indicating that the insertion of dCMP opposite the adduct is predominant. When compared with the results for 3,N4-ethenodeoxycytidine (epsilon dC), which was studied previously in the same system [Moriya et al. (1994) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 91, 11899-11903], the results of this study indicate that the intrinsic mutagenic potency of epsilon dA is comparable to that of epsilon dC in mammalian cells.
AIMS ::: Naphtho[1,2-b]furan-4,5-dione (NFD), prepared from 2-hydroxy-1,4-naphthoquinone and chloroacetaldehyde in an efficient one-pot reaction, exhibits an anti-carcinogenic effect. This study was performed to elucidate whether EGFR and PI3K signaling pathways are involved in NFD-induced apoptosis of human lung adenocarcinoma A549 cells. ::: ::: ::: MAIN METHODS ::: The effect of NFD on cell viability and apoptosis was measured by the MTT assay and flow cytometry. The phosphorylation levels of EGFR and its regulatory molecules by NFD treatment were studied by immunoblots. ::: ::: ::: KEY FINDINGS ::: Immunoblot showed that NFD inhibited EGFR phosphorylation and the activation of PI3K/Akt, downstream molecules of EGFR pathway, in A549 cells. The levels of downstream targets of Akt, including phospho-glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (p-GSK-3beta), GSK-3beta, forkhead transcription factor (FKHR), and cyclin D1, were also reduced after NFD treatment. Moreover, inactivation of nuclear factor-kappaB (NFkappaB), modulation of IkappaKalpha/beta and IkappaBalpha, up-regulation of Bad and Bax, and down-regulation of anti-apoptotic proteins including phospho-Bad, Bcl-2, survivin, and XIAP were also found in NFD-treated cells. In addition, NFD treatment disrupted mitochondrial membrane potential (DeltaPsim) and resulted in release of mitochondrial cytochrome c and activation of both caspases-9 and caspase-3. ::: ::: ::: SIGNIFICANCE ::: These findings indicate that EGFR and PI3K/Akt signaling pathways play important roles in NFD-induced apoptosis of A549 cells.
Abstract When galactitol was allowed to react with chloroacetaldehyde diethyl acetal in concentrated hydrochloric acid, a di- O -chloroethylidenegalactiol was isolated. This product, on treatment with excess p -toluenesulfonyl chloride in pyridine, gave an extremely acid-stable di- O -chloroethylidene-di- O - p -tolylsulfonylgalactitol, which on acetolysis in boiling acetic anhydride-acetic acid containing sulfuric acid, was cleaved to give 1,3,4,6-tetra- O -acetyl-2,5-di- O - p -tolylsulfonylgalactitol in moderate yield. The identification of this tetra- O -acetyl-di- O - p -tolylsulfonylgalactitol supports the structure of 1,3:4,6-di- O -chloroethylidenegalactitol for the original diacetal.
Trichloroethene and tetrachloroethene are the most common pollutants in groundwater and two of the priority pollutants listed by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. In previous studies on TCE and PCE photolysis and photochemical degradation, concentration ranges exceeding environmental levels by far with millimolar concentrations of TCE and PCE have been used, and it is not clear if the obtained results can be used to explain the degradation of these contaminants at more realistic environmental concentration levels. Experiments with micromolar concentrations of TCE and PCE in aqueous solution using direct photolysis and UV/H2O2 have been conducted and product formation as well as transformation efficiency have been investigated. SPME/GC/MS, HPLC/UV and ion chromatography with conductivity detection have been used to determine intermediates of degradation. The results showed that chloride was a major end product in both TCE and PCE photodegradation. Several intermediates such as formic acid, dichloroacetic acid, dichloroacetaldehyede, chloroform, formaldehyde and glyoxylic acid were formed during both, UV and UV/H2O2 treatment of TCE. However chloroacetaldehyde and chloroacetic acid were only detected during direct UV photolysis of TCE and oxalic acid was only formed during the UV/H2O2 process. For PCE photodegradation, formic acid, di- and trichloroacetic acids were detected in both UV and UV/H2O2 systems, but formaldehyde and glyoxylic acid were only detected during direct UV photolysis. For water treatment UV/H2O2 seems to be favorable over direct UV photolysis because of its higher degradation efficiency and lower risk for the formation of harmful intermediates.
1. Following simultaneous i.v. administration of a mixture of [4-14C]cyclophosphamide (14C-CP) and [side-chain3H]CP to rats, a metabolite containing predominantly 3H radioactivity was excreted in the urine.2. The 3H-labelled urinary metabolite was identified as 2-chloroacetaldehyde.3. Chloro[3H]acetaldehyde accounted for approx. 3.8% of urinary3H radioactivity.4. The importance of chloroacetaldehyde as a toxic metabolite of CP is discussed. particularly in relation to haemorrhagic bladder disease.
Publisher Summary ::: Aldehydes and ketones resemble each other in containing the carbonyl group CO; in aldehydes, this is combined with either two hydrogen atoms, in formaldehyde, or with one alkyl group and a hydrogen atom, in the higher members of the series; in ketones, it is combined with two alkyl groups. Methods of preparation of the aldehydes and ketones are common. They can be prepared by the oxidation of alcohols, dry distillation of the calcium, barium, or other heavy metal salts of monobasic fatty acids or of a mixture of salts of two different acids, or the direct addition of water to acetylenic hydrocarbons in the presence of a mercury salt as catalyst. This chapter discusses specific preparation methods of aldehydes and ketones. Typical reactions of aldehydes, such as oxidation, color reactions, condensation (explained on the basis of Cannizzaro reaction), addition reactions, Grignard syntheses, Reformatsky reaction, as well as Wittig reaction are presented in detail. It then profiles individual compounds, such as formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, trichloroacetaldehyde, and several other derivatives of aldehydes, along with their preparation methods and typical reactions. The same approach has been adopted for ketones wherein individual compounds, such as acetone, chloroacetone, hexachloroacetone, nitroacetone, isopropylidenepropylimine, and many others have been covered.
The ability of a series of haloalkanes, haloethanols and haloacetaldehydes to induce mutations in Salmonella typhrimurium and preferentially to inhibit the growth of DNA polymerase-deficient E. coli (pol A(+)/pol A(-)) was investigated. For the haloalkanes investigated, the order of reactivities towards the E. coli pol A(+)/pol A(-), was: 1,1,2,2-tetrabromoethane > 1,1-dibromoethane > 1,1,2,2-tetrachlorethane > 1,2-dibromoethane = 1,5 dibromopentane > 1,2-dibromo-2-methylpropane > 1-bromo-2-chloroethane > 1,2-dichloroethane. In the standard Salmonella mutagenicity assay the order of these substances was 1,2-dibromoethane = 1,5-dibromopentane > 1,2-dibromo-2-methylpropane >/= 1-bromo-2-chloroethane > 1,1,2,2-tetrachloroethane = 1,1-dibromoethane > 1,2-dichloroethane. 1,1,2,2-Tetrabromoethane was negative in the standard assay but strongly mutagenic when tested in suspension. It would appear that the discrepancy between the two procedures is due to the fact that bactericidal mutagens cannot be scored reliably in the standard Salmonella assay. The order of reactivity of 2-haloethanols in E. coli pol. A(+)/pol A(-), was 2-iodo > 2-bromo-> 2-chloroethanol. In the Salmonella assay the order was 2-bromo-> 2 iodo- >2-chloro-ethanol. 2-Fluoroethanol and ethanol were devoid of activity in both assays. For the 2-haloacetaldehydes the reactivities in the E. coli system were 2-bromoethylacetate > 2-bromoacetaldehyde = acetaldehyde > 2-chloroacetaldehyde while in the Salmonella system the order was 2-bromoethylacetate > 2-chloroacetaldehyde. Acetaldehyde had minimal activity, while 2-bromoacetaldehyde was without activity but strongly bactericidal.
Etheno (epsilon) adducts are formed in reaction of DNA bases with various environmental carcinogens and endogenously created products of lipid peroxidation. Chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), a metabolite of carcinogen vinyl chloride, is routinely used to generate epsilon-adducts. We studied the role of AlkB, along with AlkA and Mug proteins, all engaged in repair of epsilon-adducts, in CAA-induced mutagenesis. The test system used involved pIF102 and pIF104 plasmids bearing the lactose operon of CC102 or CC104 origin (Cupples and Miller (1989) [17]) which allowed to monitor Lac(+) revertants, the latter arose by GC-->AT or GC-->TA substitutions, respectively, as a result of modification of guanine and cytosine. The plasmids were CAA-damaged in vitro and replicated in Escherichia coli of various genetic backgrounds. To modify the levels of AlkA and AlkB proteins, mutagenesis was studied in E. coli cells induced or not in adaptive response. Formation of varepsilonC proceeds via a relatively stable intermediate, 3,N(4)-alpha-hydroxyethanocytosine (HEC), which allowed to compare repair of both adducts. The results indicate that all three genes, alkA, alkB and microg, are engaged in alleviation of CAA-induced mutagenesis. The frequency of mutation was higher in AlkA-, AlkB- and Mug-deficient strains in comparison to alkA(+), alkB(+), and microg(+) controls. Considering the levels of CAA-induced Lac(+) revertants in strains harboring the pIF plasmids and induced or not in adaptive response, we conclude that AlkB protein is engaged in the repair of epsilonC and HEC in vivo. Using the modified TTCTT 5-mers as substrates, we confirmed in vitro that AlkB protein repairs epsilonC and HEC although far less efficiently than the reference adduct 3-methylcytosine. The pH optimum for repair of HEC and epsilonC is significantly different from that for 3-methylcytosine. We propose that the protonated form of adduct interact in active site of AlkB protein.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) modulate the expression of over 30% of mammalian genes during development and apoptosis, abnormal expression of miRNAs may lead to a range of human pathologies. Therefore, analysis of miRNAs is significantly valuable for disease diagnostics. In this work, a novel one pot fluorescence derivatization strategy was developed for miRNA analysis. The mechanism of the derivatization reaction was explored by using instrumental methods, including liquid chromatography, fluorescence, and mass spectrometry. Highly fluorescent N 6 -ethanoadenine (ε-adenine) was formed and detached from the miRNA sequence through the reaction of adenine in nucleic acids with 2-chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) at 100 °C. This is the first experimental evidence that the cooperation of formed ε-adenine and water-mediated H-bond interaction between the proton at 2՛ and the oxyanion at 3՛ positions stabilized the oxocarbenium significantly, which make the depurination and derivatization of miRNA highly effective. Based on this derivatization strategy, a facile and sensitive high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) method was developed for quantitative assay of miRNAs. In combination with magnetic solid phase extraction (MSPE), the HPLC method was proven useful for the determination of microRNAs at sub pico-molar level in serum samples.
An environmental isolate Comamonas testosteroni strain RF2, which has been found to cometabolize trichloroethene (TCE) in the presence of phenol and sodium lactate as growth substrates, was tested to investigate its capacity for degrading 1,2-cis-dichloroethene (cDCE), 1,2-trans-dichlorothene (tDCE), and 1,1-dichloroethene (1,1DCE). Degradation assays were performed for single DCEs, as well as for a mixture of DCEs with TCE, which resembled contaminated plume in groundwater. RF2 was capable of efficiently removing all three dichloroethenes (DCEs) at the initial aqueous concentrations of 6.01 mg L-1 for cDCE, 3.80 mg L-1 for tDCE and 0.65 mg L-1 for 1,1DCE, with a removal efficiency of 100% for cDCE, 65.8% for tDCE, and 46.8% for 1,1DCE. Furthermore, complete removal of TCE, cDCE and 1,1DCE (122.5 μg L-1, 84.3 μg L-1 and 51.4 μg L-1, respectively) was observed in a mixture sample that also contained 72.33 μg L-1 of tDCE, which was removed to the amount of 72.3%. Moreover, degradation of cDCE (6.01 mg L-1) led to a 93.8% release of inorganic chloride, and 2,2-dichloroacetaldehyde was determined as the first intermediate of cDCE transformation. The findings of this study suggest that the strain RF2 exhibits the potential to remediate groundwater contaminated with less chlorinated ethenes.
The results showed that chloride was a major end product in both TCE and PCE photodegradation. Several intermediates such as formic acid, dichloroacetic acid, dichloroacetaldehyede, chloroform, formaldehyde and glyoxylic acid were formed during both, UV and UV/H 2 O 2 treatment of TCE. However chloroacetaldehyde and chloroacetic acid were only detected during direct UV photolysis of TCE and oxalic acid was only formed during the UV/H 2 O 2 process. For PCE photodegradation, formic acid, di-and trichloroacetic acids were detected in both UV and UV/H 2 O 2 systems, but formaldehyde and glyoxylic acid were only detected during direct UV photolysis.
For the 2-haloacetaldehydes the reactivities in the E. coli system were 2-bromoethylacetate > 2-bromoacetaldehyde = acetaldehyde > 2-chloroacetaldehyde while in the Salmonella system the order was 2-bromoethylacetate > 2-chloroacetaldehyde. Acetaldehyde had minimal activity, while 2-bromoacetaldehyde was without activity but strongly bactericidal.
The method is based on the reaction of pyrimethamine with chloroacetaldehyde and measurement of the fluorescence of the resulting pyrimidoimidazole derivative. The limits of detection for pyrimethamine in ethanol, plasman and saliva were 2.7, 8.4 and 6.6 ng ml−1, respectively. Chloroquine and quinine do not interfere.
Numerous carcinogens or their bifunctional metabolites modify DNA bases by forming additional exocyclic rings on the base moiety. These modifications form exocyclic rings between N1 and N6 of dA, N3 and N4 of dC or N1 and N2 of dG, as well as the N2 and N3 of dG. This study focuses on the reaction products of dA and dC with chloroacetaldehyde, bis-chloroethyl nitrosourea and para-benzoquinone, which form etheno, ethano and para-benzoquinone derivatives, respectively. The three dC adducts and three dA adducts were each incorporated site-specifically into 25-nucleotide-long deoxyoligonucleotides. All duplexes with a single modified dA or dC adduct opposite the normal complement showed decreased thermal stability, as compared with the unmodified control duplex. The destabilizations ranges from -2 degrees C to -13 degrees C, depending on saturation, the size of the adduct and the nature of the base. Energy-minimized molecular models of the duplexes illustrate various degrees of distortions by the adducts, the para-benzoquinone adducts showing the greatest distortion.
1,N2-Etheno-2'-deoxyguanosine (1,N2-epsilon dGuo), not previously reported as a product of chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) reaction, has been synthesized and characterized. Reaction of deoxyguanosine with CAA in dimethylformamide in the presence of K2CO3 led to preparation of pure 1,N2-epsilon dGuo with 55% yield. pKa values are 2.2 and 9.2. The anionic form of the compound exhibits weak but defined fluorescence; the intensity is similar to that of N2,3-etheno-2'-deoxyguanosine (N2,3-epsilon dGuo) at neutrality. The stability of the glycosyl bond of 1,N2-epsilon dGuo (t1/2 = 2.3 h at 37 degrees C, pH 1) is 10-fold greater than of unmodified deoxyguanosine and at least one thousand-fold greater than of isomeric N2,3-epsilon dGuo. Reaction of CAA with model polynucleotides indicates that hydrogen bonding of guanine residues in the double-stranded structures is, as expected, an important factor in the formation of 1,N2-ethenoguanine. In contrast, the formation of isomeric N2,3-ethenoguanine is relatively independent of whether the DNA is single- or double-stranded. In salmon sperm DNA, reacted with CAA at neutrality, the formation of 1,N2-ethenoguanine could be demonstrated. However, we find the efficiency of formation of this adduct in double-stranded DNA to be lower than that of all other etheno derivatives.
Treatment of 9-ethy-1-(2-hydroxythyl)adenide hydrobromide (1a) in boiling N, N-dimethylformamide (DMF) with an excess of thiourea for 7 h or with an excess of ammonium thiocyanate for 3 h provided 3-ethyl-7, 8-dihydro-3H-imidazo[2, 1-i]purinium thiocyanate (8) in 51% or 58% yield, respectively. On treatment with an excess of triphenyl phosphite in boiling DMF for 20 min, 1 a underwent a similar cyclization to from the same tricycle, which was isolated in 81% yield (from 1 a)in the form of the perchlorate salt (12). A similar treatment of 1 a with triethyl phosphite furnished the 9-ethyl analogue (15) in 83% yield. Conversion of 12 into the free base and oxidation of latter with active MnO2 in boiling CH2Cl2 for 16 h gave 3-ethyl 3-ethyl-3H-imidazo[2, 1-i]purine (13) (66% overall yield from 12), which was identical with a sample synthesized from 9-ethyladenine (9) and chloroacetaldehyde according to the general N6, 1-etheno bridgeing procedure. On treatment with methanolic ammonia at room temperature, the tricycle 15 afforded 9-ethyl-N6-[2-(ethylamino)ethyl]adenine hydrobromide (26) in 79% yield. Mechanisms are proposed for the above intramolecular cyclizations of 1 a caused by the S- and P-atom nucleophiles.
A series of 4,7-dihydro-4-oxo-1H-pyrrolo[2,3-b]pyridine-5-carboxylic acids was synthesized from ethyl 5-methyl(or 5H)-2-aminopyrrole-3-carboxylate. The starting pyrroles were obtained by reaction of carbethoxyacetamidine with bromoacetone or chloroacetaldehyde. One compound (10) showed antibacterial activity in vitro.
The mechanism of action for the dichlorvos is mainly by blocking of acetylcholinesterase -an enzyme which in turn decomposes acetylcholine (Lewalter&Korallus, 1986; Harlin& Dellinger, 1993) . Overdose of this OP leads to symptoms which include weakness, headache, tightness in chest, blurred vision, salivation, sweating, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, respiratory failure, and abdominal cramps being an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, (CEPA, 1996) . It is mainly metabolized by esterase to dimethylphosphate and dichloroacetaldehyde. Dimethylphosphate is excreted in the urine, while dichloroacetaldehyde is rapidly metabolized via two pathways to dichloroethanolglucuronide, hippuric acid, urea and carbon dioxide, and excreted in the urine and expiration (CERI, 2007) . The mechanisms underlying these effects are not known, and the role of acetylcholinestrase (AChE) inhibition is controversial (Kamel and Hoppin, 2004; Abou-Donia, 2003 ) and may vary depending on the exposure parameters. Chronic neurotoxicity subsequent to a single acute exposure to dichlorvos ORIGINAL ARTICLE REVIEW ARTICLE ORIGINAL ARTICLE (Delvap Super ®) was purchased from the vendors of insecticides, pesticides and other Agro allied Chemicals at Sabongari market, Kano, Nigeria. The lethal concentration LC50 of dichlorvos which was reported as15mg/m3 (Lewis, 1996) was taken as a reference value. The present study was carried out with sublethal doses equivalent to 75% (11.25mg/ m3), 50% (7.50mg/m3) and 25% (3.75mg/m3) of the reference LC50dose.
On administration, CPA undergoes hepatic oxidation to form the therapeutically active intermediate metabolite, 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide (4-OH-CPA), primarily mediated by cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2B6 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A4 and CYP2C9. 6,7 4-OH-CPA is further tautomerized to aldophosphamide, followed by spontaneous ␤-elimination to release the phosphoramide mustard that exerts chemotherapeutic effects by attacking specific nucleophilic groups of DNA molecules in target cancer cells. 8 Alternatively, CPA is subject to significant side-chain oxidation, primarily N-dechloroethylation to generate the inactive dechloroethyl-CPA and the neurotoxic chloroacetaldehyde predominantly by CYP3A4. 9 In addition, 4-OH-CPA and aldophosphamide can be further deactivated by aldehyde dehydrogenases (ALDH) such as ALDH1A1, ALDH3A1, and ALDH5A1 ( Figure 1 ). 10 Notably, hydroxylation of CPA at the 4-carbon position represents the rate-limiting step of its bioactivation and the blood concentration of 4-OH-CPA has often been used as a biomarker monitoring the efficacy of CPA-based chemotherapy. 11, 12 It is worth noting that although induction of CYP expression generally increases the elimination of drugs and leads to therapeutic failures, in the case of CPA, increasing CYP-mediated biotransformation can generate more cytotoxic intermediate metabolites with or without therapeutic potential, which may lead to comprehensive clinical ramifications. 13,14 Currently, 2 orphan nuclear receptors, the constitutive androstane receptor (CAR, NR1I3) and the pregnane X receptor (PXR, NR1I2), are recognized as the primary regulators of drug-induced expression of CYP2B6 and CYP3A4, respectively, in the liver. 15, 16 Although activation of human (h) PXR induces both CYP3A4 and CYP2B6 with less discernible differences, recent evidence from our laboratory demonstrates that selective activation of hCAR leads to marked preferential induction of CYP2B6 over CYP3A4 in the liver. 17 Based on the fact that hCAR asymmetrically cross-regulates the inductive expression of CYP2B6 and CYP3A4, we hypothesize that selective activation of Submitted June 11, 2012; accepted November 6, 2012. Prepublished online as Blood First Edition paper, November 16, 2012; DOI 10.1182 DOI 10. /blood-2012 The online version of this article contains a data supplement.
As one of the key mechanisms of action, biotransformation of CPA has been extensively studied and many drug-metabolizing enzymes that differentially contribute to the bioactivation and deactivation of CPA have been identified. 5,13 Specifically, the CYP2B6 enzyme contributes primarily to the bioactivation of CPA, whereas CYP3A4 was responsible for approximately 95% of CPA N-dechloroethylation, generating the inactive dechloroethyl-CPA and the neurotoxic chloroacetaldehyde. 6, 34 In addition, several ALDHs convert the aldophosphamide to the carboxyphosphamide which represents a major stable nontherapeutic metabolite of CPA. 26, 35 Notably, although liver is often not the target for CPA-based chemotherapy, biotransformation of CPA to its active forms occurs predominantly in this metabolic organ before reaching the targeted cancer cells. 36, 37 In accord with this concept, our results revealed that endogenous expression of the major drugmetabolizing enzymes responsible for CPA metabolism is negligible in several leukemia and lymphoma cells, suggesting that in situ bioactivation of CPA in these cancer cells is generally insignificant. However, it is noteworthy that expression of ALDH1A1 in K562 cells is comparable with that in HPHs, and is markedly greater than the expression in other cancer cells tested.
On administration, CPA undergoes hepatic oxidation to form the therapeutically active intermediate metabolite, 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide (4-OH-CPA), primarily mediated by cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2B6 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A4 and CYP2C9. 6,7 4-OH-CPA is further tautomerized to aldophosphamide, followed by spontaneous ␤-elimination to release the phosphoramide mustard that exerts chemotherapeutic effects by attacking specific nucleophilic groups of DNA molecules in target cancer cells. 8 Alternatively, CPA is subject to significant side-chain oxidation, primarily N-dechloroethylation to generate the inactive dechloroethyl-CPA and the neurotoxic chloroacetaldehyde predominantly by CYP3A4. 9 In addition, 4-OH-CPA and aldophosphamide can be further deactivated by aldehyde dehydrogenases (ALDH) such as ALDH1A1, ALDH3A1, and ALDH5A1 ( Figure 1 ). 10 Notably, hydroxylation of CPA at the 4-carbon position represents the rate-limiting step of its bioactivation and the blood concentration of 4-OH-CPA has often been used as a biomarker monitoring the efficacy of CPA-based chemotherapy. 11, 12 It is worth noting that although induction of CYP expression generally increases the elimination of drugs and leads to therapeutic failures, in the case of CPA, increasing CYP-mediated biotransformation can generate more cytotoxic intermediate metabolites with or without therapeutic potential, which may lead to comprehensive clinical ramifications. 13, 14 Currently, 2 orphan nuclear receptors, the constitutive androstane receptor (CAR, NR1I3) and the pregnane X receptor (PXR, NR1I2), are recognized as the primary regulators of drug-induced expression of CYP2B6 and CYP3A4, respectively, in the liver. 15, 16 Although activation of human (h) PXR induces both CYP3A4 and CYP2B6 with less discernible differences, recent evidence from our laboratory demonstrates that selective activation of hCAR leads to marked preferential induction of CYP2B6 over CYP3A4 in the liver. 17 Based on the fact that hCAR asymmetrically cross-regulates the inductive expression of CYP2B6 and CYP3A4, we hypothesize that selective activation of hCAR can enhance the efficacy of CPA-based chemotherapy without simultaneously increasing off-target cytotoxicity.
Abstract The nucleotide sequence of tRNA4Val from Drosophila melanogaster was determined to be pGUUUmCCGUm1GGUG psi AGCGGDU(acp3U)AUCACA psi CUGCCmUIACAm5CGCAGAAGm7GCCCCCGGT psi CGm1AUCCCGGGCGGAAACACCA. It is probable that residue C 49 is modified to m5C. The use of tRNA modified with chloroacetaldehyde to overcome secondary structure problems in sequencing is described.
2-Amino-4,5-diphenylfuran-3-carbonitrile (2) reacted with N-[bis(methylthio)methylene]glycine ethyl ester (1) to afford a double cyclized product 5-methylthio-8,9-diphenylfuro[3,2-e]imida-zo[l,2-c]pyrimidin-2(3H)-one (3).Compound 2 also reacts with benzonitrile to give 4-amino-2.5,6-triphenylfuro[2,3-d]pyrimidine (4). Treatment of 2 with HCONH 2 , under reflux, afforded 4-amino-5,6-diphenylfuro[2,3-d]pyrimidine (5) which was then allowed to react with chloroacetaldehyde to give 8,9-diphenylfuro[3,2-e]imidazo[l,2-c]pyrimidine (6). Reaction of 2 with HCOOH gave 5,6-diphenylfuro[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4(3H)-one (7) which was then converted to its tosyl derivative (8). The antimicrobial activity of the synthesized compounds 2-8 was tested.
We studied theformation ofd(A-T)n cruciforms in E.coli cells byprobing intracellular plasmid DNAwith chloroacetaldehyde followed by fineanalysis of modifiedDNA bases.d(A-T)16 sequenceswere inserted intospecifically designed plasmids either upstream ofa single trcpromoter, orbetweentwo divergent trcpromoters. We foundthatinbothcases, induction oftranscription by IPTGleadstothe transition ofthed(A-T)16 stretch into acruciform state. Inthecaseoftwodivergent promoters, we observed cruciform formation even without IPTG.Enhanced cruciform formation correlates withtheelevation in promoter activity as defined bytheopening ofthe promoter atthe- 10to+2positions. Weconclude that transcriptionall y driven negative supercoiling provokes cruciform formation invivo.
The nucleophilic selectivity (Swain-Scott's constant s) of chloroethylene oxide (CEO), an ultimate carcinogenic metabolite of vinyl chloride, was determined to be 0.71 using the 4-(p-nitrobenzyl)pyridine (NBP) assay (Spears method). The molar extinction coefficient of the adduct formed between NBP and CEO was measured; and the second-order rate constants for the reactions of CEO with NBP and with thiosulfate were estimated at three temperatures. The disappearance of CEO and the formation of chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) and glycolaldehyde (GCA) were followed in D2O or a mixture of D2O/hexadeuterated acetone (acetone-d6), using Fourier transform proton nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (1H-FTNMR). Evidence was obtained that CEO reacts with chloride ions to yield CAA at a rate constant of about 17 M-1 h-1 in D2O/acetone-d6 (1 : 1, v/v) at 280 K. Under the same conditions, the first-order rate constant kr for the thermal rearrangement of CEO into CAA was estimated to be approximately 0.41 h-1. These data suggest that the isomerization of CEO may be a minor reaction in physiological saline. These chemical properties of CEO are discussed in relation to the mechanism of vinyl chloride-induced carcinogenesis.
Bromoacetaldehyde reacted with adenosine 5'-phosphate and cytidine more rapidly than chloroacetaldehyde to give 1, N6-ethenoadenosine 5'-phosphate and 3, N4-ethenocytidine, respectively. The pH-dependence of the rates of these reactions was similar to that of the chloroacetaldehyde modifications reported in the literature ; i.e. the reactions proceed smoothly in the pH range of 5 to 7. When applied to polynucleotides, bromoacetaldehyde reacted with adenine and cytosine residues located in single-stranded regions but not with those in double-stranded regions. Guanosine 5'-phosphate reacted with bromoacetaldehyde at pH 7 but only very slowly at pH 5. Bromoacetaldehyde may be useful as a more reactive subtitute for chloroacetaldehyde. Bromoacetaldehyde showed little mutagenic activity when assayed on Salmonella typhymurium TA 100.
Exocyclic adducts of DNA bases, such as etheno- and hydroxyalkano- ones, are generated by a variety of bifunctional agents, including endogenously formed products of lipid peroxidation. In this work we selectively modified cytosines in the 5'-d(TTT TTT CTT TTT CTT TTT CTT TTT T)-3' oligonucleotide using: chloroacetaldehyde to obtain 3,N(4)-alpha-hydroxyethano- (HEC) and 3,N(4)-etheno- (epsilonC), acrolein to obtain 3,N(4)-alpha-hydroxypropano- (HPC) and crotonaldehyde to obtain 3,N(4)-alpha-hydroxy-gamma-methylpropano- (mHPC) adducts of cytosine. The studied adducts are alkali-labile which results in oligonucleotide strain breaks at the sites of modification upon strong base treatment. The oligonucleotides carrying adducted cytosines were studied as substrates of Escherichia coli Mug, human TDG and fission yeast Thp1p glycosylases. All the adducts studied are excised by bacterial Mug although with various efficiency: epsilonC >HEC >HPC >mHPC. The yeast enzyme excises efficiently epsilonC>HEC>HPC, whereas the human enzyme excises only epsilonC. The pH-dependence curves of excision of eC, HEC and HPC by Mug are bell shaped and the most efficient excision of adducts occurs within the pH range of 8.6-9.6. The observed increase of excision of HEC and HPC above pH 7.2 can be explained by deprotonation of these adducts, which are high pK(a) compounds and exist in a protonated form at neutrality. On the other hand, since epsilonC is in a neutral form in the pH range studied, we postulate an involvement of an additional catalytic factor. We hypothesize that the enzyme structure undergoes a pH-induced rearrangement allowing the participation of Lys68 of Mug in catalysis via a hydrogen bond interaction of its epsilon-amino group with N(4) of the cytosine exocyclic adducts.
The causative interrelationship between long-term, low level exposure to chlorinated volatile organic solvents (VOSs) and neurodegenerative diseases (polyneuropathy, encephalopathy) are still an issue of controversial debate. Endogeneously formed chlorinated tetrahydro-beta-carbolines found by Bringmann 1995 (TaClo hypothesis) may contribute, in particular, to the development of (idiopathic) Parkinson's disease (PD) in the presence of the sufficient amount of trichloroacetaldehyde, an intermediate in metabolism of trichloroethylene (TRI). Long-term storage of specific VOSs over years, evident frrom exhalation pattern during the postexposure period, may serve as a promoting factor to form continuously TaClo non-enzymatically from tryptamine and trichloroacetaldehyde. Thus, the induction of TaClo-mediated neurotoxic processes extends over years. The onset of Parkinson's disease in three chronic TRI-exposed individuals during the postexposure period could be associated with the presence of TaClo in ng-range. Consequently, determination of TaClo and its derivatives in blood of humans exposed to chlorinated VOSs may serve as a marker of risk indicating either causative or supportive processes of neurodegeneration that may lead to manifestation of PD after many years.
The condensation of 4-amino-5-mercapto-3-(2-phenylquinolin-4-yl)/3-(1-p-chlorophenyl-5-methyl-1,2,3-triazol-4-yl)-1,2,4-triazoles 1a-b with chloroacetaldehyde 2a-b, ω-bromo-ω-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)acetophenone 3a-b, chloranil 4a-b, 2-bromocyclohexanone 5a-b, 2,4′-dibromoacetophenone 6a-b and 2-bromo-6′-methoxy-2′-acetonaphthone 7a-b are described. The structures of the compounds synthesized were confirmed by elemental analyses, IR, 1H NMR and mass spectra. The antibacterial activities were also evaluated.
Two structurally related organophosphorous insecticides, dichlorvos and trichlorfon, and their main metabolite dichloroacetaldehyde, were assayed for their ability to induce DNA repair, detected as unscheduled DNA synthesis in human epithelial-like cell (EUE) cultures in vitro. A dose-response relationship was found for treatment with the two pesticides, but negative results were obtained with dichloroacetaldehyde. Tests for induction of gene mutation, as ouabain resistance in Chinese hamster cells (V79), failed to show any mutagenic activity by these compounds.
As it is not yet known which are the important miscoding adducts formed in the reaction of the relatively unstable compound chloroethylene oxide (CEO) with double-stranded DNA, proton FTNMR and GC-mass spectroscopy were used to directly detect and characterize reaction intermediates. Reaction of CEO with cytidine gave the (hydrated) 2-oxoethyl derivative at the N-3 position prior to ring closure to 3,N4-ethenocytidine; 5-methylcytosine gave an analogous reaction. However, reactions of CEO or chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) with 3-methylcytidine - i.e., with the N-3 blocked as in double-stranded DNA (ds DNA) - were shown by GC-MS of the silylated products to give, at a much slower rate, a pattern of at least 17 adducts all of which contained chlorine. Based on MS fragmentation and considerations of positional, optical and cis/trans isomerism, the reaction products of the 3-methylcytosine moiety were assigned as cis/trans N4-(2-chlorovinyl)-3-methylcytosine which may have arisen from the corresponding N4-(1-hydroxy-2-chloroethyl) adduct. It is postulated that formation of these cytosine-N4 adducts would be more rapid in double-stranded DNA than in the model compound, and that the N4-(2-chlorovinyl) group may be a miscoding adduct. The kinetics for CEO rearrangement, hydrolysis and nucleophilic attack have been studied by proton FTNMR and lead to the hypothesis that concerted nucleophilic attack by cytosine-N4 and CEO rearrangement produce the N4 adducts.
Either 40 μmole or 160 μmole 2,2′-DDE was injected into male Wistar rats and the metabolites, TdGA and HEMA, were determined in the 24-h urine specimens. Comparative investigations were carried out giving equimolar amounts of chloroethanol and 2-chloroacetaldehyde diethyl acetal. In a further step, inhalation experiments were performed to determine urinary excretion of the two metabolites after an 8-h exposure of male Wistar rats to 10, 50, 100, and 500 ppm 2,2′-DDE and to 50, 200, und 1000 ppm vinyl chloride.
The oxazaphosphorine cyclophosphamide (CPA) and ifosfamide (IFO) are two commonly used DNA- alkylating agents in cancer chemotherapy. This review highlights the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of the two important agents. As alkylating agents, CPA and IFO are usually combined with other anticancer drugs in the chemotherapy of solid tumors and hematological malignancies to obtain synergistic or additive anticancer effect due to complementary mechanism of action. Both compounds are prodrugs that are activated via 4-hydroxylation by cytochrome P450s such as CYP2B6 and CYP3A4 to generate alkylating nitrogen mustards (phosphoramide mustard and ifosforamide mustard) and the byproduct acrolein. The resultant mustards can alkylate DNA to form DNA-DNA cross-links, leading to inhibition of DNA synthesis and cell apoptosis. Both CPA and IFO are also inactivated by N-dechloroethylation, resulting in N-dechloroethylated metabolites and the byproduct chloroacetaldehyde. Acrolein is the causative agent for hemorrhagic cystitis, whereas chloroacetaldehyde induces nephrotoxicity and neurotoxicity. Pharmacokinetics of CPA and IFO is markedly influenced by route of administration and duration of treatment, age, comedication, liver and renal function. Large interpatient variability in pharmacokinetics, clinical response rate and toxicity has been observed in cancer patients treated with CPA or IFO. Resistance to CPA or IFO occurs due to decreased activation by CYP3A4 and CYP2B6, increased deactivation of the agents, decreased entry into or increased efflux from tumor cells, increased cellular thiol level, increased DNA repair capacity, and/or deficient apoptotic response to DNA damage. A full understanding of factors affecting the pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, toxicology and pharmacogenetics of CPA and IFO is important to optimize the dose and regimens of CPA and IFO in cancer chemotherapy.
Rare earth metal trifluoromethanesulfonates (lanthanide and scandium triflates) were found to be stable Lewis acids in water and can act as Lewis acid catalysts in several carbon-carbon forming reactions In all cases, the reactions proceeded smoothly in the presence of a catalytic amount of the triflate under mild conditions in aqueous solution. For example, in the presence of a catalytic amount of rare earth metal triflate, formaldehyde in water solution (commercial formaldehyde solution) was activated and the hydroxymethylation reaction of silyl enol ethers proceeded smoothly Rare earth metal triflates were also quite effective in the aldol reaction of silyl enol ethers with aldehydes in aqueous media, and water-soluble aldehydes such as acetaldehyde, acrolein, and chloroacetaldehyde could be employed for direct use. Moreover, the allylation reaction of a wide variety of carbonyl compounds with tetraallyltin was successfully carried out in aqueous media by using scandium triflate as a catalyst. Unprotected sugars reacted directly to give the adducts in high yields. In all these reactions, lanthanide triflates were quantitatively recovered after the reactions were completed and could be reused.
Bronchiolar Clara cell damage ensues after treatment of mice with 1,1-dichloroethylene (DCE). The cytotoxicity is mediated by CYP2E1, a cytochrome P450 isozyme that is highly localized in the Clara cells. Bioactivation of DCE produces the primary metabolites 2,2-dichloroacetaldehyde, which hydrolyzes to the acetal, and DCE epoxide, which reacts with glutathione to form the conjugates 2-(S-glutathionyl) acetyl glutathione [B] and 2-S-glutathionyl acetate [C]. In this study, we investigated the potential of diallyl sulfone (DASO2) to inhibit CYP2E1, to suppress the bioactivation of DCE to reactive intermediates and to abrogate DCE-induced Clara cell cytotoxicity. Our results showed that treatment of mice with DASO2 (100 mg/kg p.o.) produced decreases in CYP2E1-dependent p-nitrophenol hydroxylation that were apparent at 1 h. Enzyme activity plummeted to about 20% of the control by 2 h and remained at this low level from 3 to 8 h. Recovery of activity was evident at 16 h and returned to the control level by 24 h. Immunoreactivity of the CYP2E1 protein was decreased in immunoblots of lung microsomes from DASO2-treated mice. Treatment with DASO2 did not cause any structural alterations in lung tissue; in contrast, treatment with DCE (75 mg/kg) produced Clara cell damage. This lesion was not manifested in mice treated with DASO2 in conjunction with DCE. The lack of cytotoxicity observed in vivo correlated with a reduction of about 45% in the levels of both the acetal and the DCE epoxide-derived conjugates [B] and [C] in vitro. These results demonstrated that DASO2 significantly inhibited the CYP2E1 enzyme, decreased the production of DCE metabolites and protected Clara cells from DCE-induced cytotoxicity.
X-ray and thermomechanical studies were made of the effect of chemically combined trichloroacetaldehyde residues on the behaviour of polyurethanes and polyester resins. For comparison and to show the causes of regularities observed, results are given concerning the effect of trifluoro and tribromoacetaldehydes on the behaviour of polymers of the same structure.
Abstract Structural variation of DNA within the promoter of the human Na,K-ATPase α2 gene, which contains a 35-base pair (bp) homopyrimidine·homopurine (Py·Pu) tract adjacent to a TATA box has been studied. The Py·Pu tract contains a 26-bp quasi-mirror repeat sequence with a potential for intramolecular triplex formation. As analyzed by two-dimensional agarose gel electrophoresis, a plasmid containing 151 bp of the promoter sequence including the 35-bp Py·Pu tract undergoes structural transitions under moderately acidic pH. Chemical probing with chloroacetaldehyde, dimethyl sulfate, and potassium permanganate is consistent with the formation of triplex DNA within the Py·Pu tract at native superhelical density as isolated from Escherichia coli. Chemical probing was used to determine a supercoil dependence for the formation of this combined unwound structure. At the superhelical density sufficient to locally unwind DNA, an H-y3 isomer of intermolecular triplex likely forms. However, at higher superhelical tension an H-y5 structure forms in the Py·Pu tract, and with increasing supercoiling the local DNA unwinding extends into the abutting TATA box. The H-y5/open TATA box combination structure might be favorable at higher superhelical densities since it relaxes more supercoils. The possible involvement of the H-y5/open TATA box structure in transcription is discussed.
Vinyl chloride (VC) is a ubiquitous environmental contaminant for which human risk is incompletely understood. We have previously reported that high occupational exposure to VC directly caused liver damage in humans. However, whether VC may also potentiate liver injury from other causes is not known. C57Bl/6J mice were administered chloroethanol (CE), a major metabolite of VC, and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) 24 h after CE. Samples were harvested for determination of liver damage, inflammation, and changes in carbohydrate and lipid metabolism. In mice, CE exposure alone caused no detectable liver damage. LPS exposure caused inflammatory liver damage, oxidative stress, lipid accumulation, and glycogen depletion; the effect of all of these variables was potentiated by CE pre-exposure. In vitro experiments suggest that VC metabolite chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) directly damages mitochondria, which may explain the sensitization effect observed in vivo Moreover, co-exposure of cells to CAA and TNFα caused increased cell death, supporting the hypothesis of sensitization by VC metabolites. Taken together, these data demonstrate that exposure to VC/metabolites at levels that are not overtly hepatotoxic can potentiate liver injury caused by another hepatotoxicant. This serves as proof-of-concept that VC hepatotoxicity may be modified by an additional metabolic stress such as endotoxemia, which commonly occurs in acute (eg, sepsis) and chronic (eg, NAFLD) diseases.
The invention relates to a method for synthesizing 6-chloro-8-bromoimidazo[1,2-a]pyridine. The method comprises the following steps: enabling 2-amino-5-chloropyridine and N-bromo succinimide to react at the temperature of 0-100 DEG C so as to prepare a 2-amino-3-bromo-5-chloropyridine intermediate, and enabling the intermediate to react with chloroacetaldehyde at the temperature of 70-160 DEG C in a certain solvent without being purified; after reaction ends, carrying out suction filtration, dissolving in a certain solvent, neutralizing in the presence of alkali, carrying out suction filtration, re-crystallizing, carrying out suction filtration, washing with water, and drying, thereby directly obtaining pure 6-chloro-8-bromoimidazopyridine. According to the method, the raw materials are relatively easily obtained and are reasonable in price; meanwhile, during preparation reaction, no heavy metal and corrosive gas are used, the reaction is mild, no special requirements on reaction equipment are required, and ordinary corrosion-resistant equipment can be applied to production; in addition, reaction conditions of the method are moderate.
The doctoral thesis deals with microbial degradation of chlorinated ethenes and its potential application for in-situ bioremediation. In a theoretical part of the thesis, the main reasons of soil and groundwater contamination by these compounds along with their transport and a fate in a subsurface environment are briefly outlined. The thesis then focuses on common procedures that must be undertaken prior to selecting a suitable remediation method at contaminated sites. Further, the thesis summarizes various microbial processes leading to a transformation and degradation of all chlorinated ethenes and outlines several options for the use of these processes within in-situ bioremediation of affected sites. Special attention is paid to aerobic cometabolic degradation of all three dichloroethenes by pure bacterial strains in a mineral salt medium. The theoretical part of the thesis ends with a chapter devoted to field demonstrations of in-situ bioremediation for clean-up of sites polluted by chlorinated ethenes. A following experimental part of the thesis deals with degradation of selected chlorinated ethenes by Comamonas testosteroni strain RF2 and by several consortia in the mineral salt medium. At first, strain RF2 was tested to investigate its capacity for degrading 1,2-cis-dichloroethene (cDCE), 1,2-trans-dichloroethene (tDCE), and 1,1-dichloroethene (1,1DCE). Degradation assays were performed for single DCEs, as well as for a mixture of DCEs with TCE, which resembled contaminated plume in groundwater. Strain RF2 was capable of efficiently removing all three dichloroethenes (DCEs) at the initial aqueous concentrations of 6.01 mg L-1 for cDCE, 3.80 mg L-1 for tDCE and 0.65 mg L-1 for 1,1DCE, with a removal efficiency of 100 % for cDCE, 65.8 % for tDCE, and 46.8 % for 1,1DCE. Furthermore, complete removal of TCE, cDCE and 1,1DCE (122.5 mikrog L-1, 84.3 mikrog L-1 and 51.4 mikrog L-1, respectively) were observed in a mixture sample that also contained 72.33 mikro g L-1 of tDCE, which was removed to the amount of 72.3%. Moreover, degradation of cDCE (6.01 mg L-1) led to a 92.2 % release of inorganic chloride, and 2,2-dichloroacetaldehyde was determined as the first intermediate of cDCE transformation. Further, a consortium composed of the strain RF2 and vinyl chloride (VC) utilizing Mycobacterium aurum DSM-6695 was tested to investigate its capacity for degrading TCE (115.7 mikrog L-1), cDCE (662 mikrog L-1), tDCE (42.01 mikrog L-1), 1,1DCE (16 mikrog L-1), and VC (7 mg L-1; "all in a liquid phase") in mixed samples. The consortium was able to nearly completely remove all the compounds in the mixed sample within 21 days of the assay. The findings of this thesis suggest that the consortium composed of the strain RF2 and M. aurum DSM-6695 exhibits the potential to remediate groundwater contaminated with chlorinated ethenes.
The stable intermediates formed in the reaction of cytosine, cytidine and adenosine with chloracetaldehyde were isolated. The -CH2CH/OH/- bridge between the exo and endo nitrogen atoms of the parent base was found in these compounds by means of PMR spectroscopy. Their acid-induced dehydration resulted in formation of appropriate ethenoderivatives. The rate constants of the intermediate formation and its dehydration were found to be 38x10(-4) and 47x10(-4) /min-1/ for adenosine, and 33x10(-4) and 10x10(-4) /min-1/ for cytidine. The PH range of 4.5--5.0 was found to be optimum for both adenosine and cytidine reactions. The quantitative modification of these two nucleosides in the presence of guanosine may be achieved with high selectivity only at a low pH of 3.0--4.0 N6-methyladenosine and N4-methylcytidine react quantitatively with chloroacetaldehyde and the reaction rate is higher than in the case of the parent nucleosides. The structure of the reaction products was assigned on the basis of PMR spectroscopy.
Plants are increasingly being employed to clean up environmental pollutants such as heavy metals; however, a major limitation of phytoremediation is the inability of plants to mineralize most organic pollutants. A key component of organic pollutants is halogenated aliphatic compounds that include 1,2-dichloroethane (1,2-DCA). Although plants lack the enzymatic activity required to metabolize this compound, two bacterial enzymes, haloalkane dehalogenase (DhlA) and haloacid dehalogenase (DhlB) from the bacterium Xanthobacter autotrophicus GJ10, have the ability to dehalogenate a range of halogenated aliphatics, including 1,2-DCA. We have engineered the dhlA and dhlB genes into tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum ‘Xanthi’) plants and used 1,2-DCA as a model substrate to demonstrate the ability of the transgenic tobacco to remediate a range of halogenated, aliphatic hydrocarbons. DhlA converts 1,2-DCA to 2-chloroethanol, which is then metabolized to the phytotoxic 2-chloroacetaldehyde, then chloroacetic acid, by endogenous plant alcohol dehydrogenase and aldehyde dehydrogenase activities, respectively. Chloroacetic acid is dehalogenated by DhlB to produce the glyoxylate cycle intermediate glycolate. Plants expressing only DhlA produced phytotoxic levels of chlorinated intermediates and died, while plants expressing DhlA together with DhlB thrived at levels of 1,2-DCA that were toxic to DhlA-expressing plants. This represents a significant advance in the development of a low-cost phytoremediation approach toward the clean-up of halogenated organic pollutants from contaminated soil and groundwater.
The oxazaphosphorine cyclophosphamide (CPA) and ifosfamide (IFO) are two commonly used DNAalkylating agents in cancer chemotherapy. This review highlights the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of the two important agents. As alkylating agents, CPA and IFO are usually combined with other anticancer drugs in the chemotherapy of solid tumors and hematological malignancies to obtain synergistic or additive anticancer effect due to complementary mechanism of action. Both compounds are prodrugs that are activated via 4-hydroxylation by cytochrome P450s such as CYP2B6 and CYP3A4 to generate alkylating nitrogen mustards (phosphoramide mustard and ifosforamide mustard) and the byproduct acrolein. The resultant mustards can alkylate DNA to form DNA-DNA cross-links, leading to inhibition of DNA synthesis and cell apoptosis. Both CPA and IFO are also inactivated by N-dechloroethylation, resulting in N-dechloroethylated metabolites and the byproduct chloroacetaldehyde. Acrolein is the causative agent for hemorrhagic cystitis, whereas chloroacetaldehyde induces nephrotoxicity and neurotoxicity. Pharmacokinetics of CPA and IFO is markedly influenced by route of administration and duration of treatment, age, comedication, liver and renal function. Large interpatient variability in pharmacokinetics, clinical response rate and toxicity has been observed in cancer patients treated with CPA or IFO. Resistance to CPA or IFO occurs due to decreased activation by CYP3A4 and CYP2B6, increased deactivation of the agents, decreased entry into or increased efflux from tumor cells, increased cellular thiol level, increased DNA repair capacity, and/or deficient apoptotic response to DNA damage. A full understanding of factors affecting the pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, toxicology and pharmacogenetics of CPA and IFO is important to optimize the dose and regimens of CPA and IFO in cancer chemotherapy.
Vinyl chloride (VC) is a ubiquitous environmental contaminant for which human risk is incompletely understood. We have previously reported that high occupational exposure to VC directly caused liver damage in humans. However, whether VC may also potentiate liver injury from other causes is not known. C57Bl/6J mice were administered chloroethanol (CE), a major metabolite of VC, and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) 24 h after CE. Samples were harvested for determination of liver damage, inflammation, and changes in carbohydrate and lipid metabolism. In mice, CE exposure alone caused no detectable liver damage. LPS exposure caused inflammatory liver damage, oxidative stress, lipid accumulation, and glycogen depletion; the effect of all of these variables was potentiated by CE pre-exposure. In vitro experiments suggest that VC metabolite chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) directly damages mitochondria, which may explain the sensitization effect observed in vivo. Moreover, co-exposure of cells to CAA and TNFa caused increased cell death, supporting the hypothesis of sensitization by VC metabolites. Taken together, these data demonstrate that exposure to VC/metabolites at levels that are not overtly hepatotoxic can potentiate liver injury caused by another hepatotoxicant. This serves as proof-of-concept that VC hepatotoxicity may be modified by an additional metabolic stress such as endotoxemia, which commonly occurs in acute (eg, sepsis) and chronic (eg, NAFLD) diseases.
Several commonly used chemotherapeutic agents, antibiotics, antivirals, and anti-epileptic medications can cause partial or full Fanconi syndrome. Fanconi syndrome is a metabolic disorder, which was first described by Lignac in 1924 and later defined by Fanconi in 1936 [1] [2] [3] . It is characterized by dysfunction of the proximal renal tubules, leading to impaired proximal tubular reabsorption of amino acids, glucose, phosphate, urate, and bicarbonate. This results in profound bone loss resistant to vitamin-D therapy, commonly rickets or osteomalacia [4] . Ifosfamide is a widely used chemotherapeutic agent with known renal toxicity, specifically altering filtration at the proximal tubule [5] [6] [7] [8] . Toxicity arises from tubular cell organic cation transporter-mediated uptake and metabolism of ifosfamide into chloroacetaldehyde [5, 9] . Ifosfamide-induced nephrotoxicity, proximal tubulopathy, and glomerulopathy were first described in 1972 [10] . Although ifosfamide toxicity is often associated with hypokalemia and diabetes insipidus, more worrisome complications include acute renal failure and severe bone demineralization from urinary phosphate loss, either through partial or full Fanconi syndrome. Herein, we discuss a case of metastatic undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma treated with combination chemotherapy (adriamycin, ifosfamide, mesna) with the subsequent development of partial Fanconi syndrome, illustrating both diagnostic features and therapeutic options.
Plants are increasingly being employed to clean up environmental pollutants such as heavy metals; however, a major limitation of phytoremediation is the inability of plants to mineralize most organic pollutants. A key component of organic pollutants is halogenated aliphatic compounds that include 1,2-dichloroethane (1,2-DCA). Although plants lack the enzymatic activity required to metabolize this compound, two bacterial enzymes, haloalkane dehalogenase (DhlA) and haloacid dehalogenase (DhlB) from the bacterium Xanthobacter autotrophicus GJ10, have the ability to dehalogenate a range of halogenated aliphatics, including 1,2-DCA. We have engineered the dhlA and dhlB genes into tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum 'Xanthi') plants and used 1,2-DCA as a model substrate to demonstrate the ability of the transgenic tobacco to remediate a range of halogenated, aliphatic hydrocarbons. DhlA converts 1,2-DCA to 2-chloroethanol, which is then metabolized to the phytotoxic 2-chloroacetaldehyde, then chloroacetic acid, by endogenous plant alcohol dehydrogenase and aldehyde dehydrogenase activities, respectively. Chloroacetic acid is dehalogenated by DhlB to produce the glyoxylate cycle intermediate glycolate. Plants expressing only DhlA produced phytotoxic levels of chlorinated intermediates and died, while plants expressing DhlA together with DhlB thrived at levels of 1,2-DCA that were toxic to DhlA-expressing plants. This represents a significant advance in the development of a low-cost phytoremediation approach toward the clean-up of halogenated organic pollutants from contaminated soil and groundwater.
The method for analysis of Trichloroacetaldehyde in water has been developed.Trichloroacetaldehyde in water was concentrated by Purge and Trap Sample Concentrator.It was separated by DB-5 capillary column in GC,and detected by Electrical Conductivity Detector(ECD).The limit of detection(LOD)was 0.2 ?g/L,the mean recoveries were between 90.6 % and 96.8 % with relative standard deviations of below 3 %.The proposed method was simple,rapid and accurate,suited to drinking water,groundwater.
SUMMARY: An inducible methanol dehydrogenase showing high activity with 2-chloroethanol was purified from 2-chloroethanol-grown cells of the 1, 2-dichloroethane utilizing bacterium Xanthobacter autotrophicus GJ10. The enzyme consisted of a 60 kDa polypeptide that was associated with a 10 kDa polypeptide and contained pyrrolo-quinoline quinone (PQQ) as a prosthetic group. Chloroethanol-grown cells of strain GJ10 also contained an inducible NAD-dependent chloroacetaldehyde dehydrogenase. Its involvement in the metabolism of 2-chloroethanol was inferred from its absence in a 2-chloroethanol non-utilizing mutant. Three different isolates of X. autotrophicus that do not utilize 2-chloroethanol for growth produced chloroethanol dehydrogenase and chloroacetaldehyde dehydrogenase activities at similar levels as strain GJ10. It is concluded that both dehydrogenases are involved in the metabolism of natural compounds and due to their broad substrate specificity fortuitously also play a role in the metabolism of the xenobiotic compounds 1,2-dichloroethane and 2-chloroethanol.
Bornyl oxide initiated, acetate endcapped unimers of trifluoroacetaldehyde, trichloroacetaldehyde and tribromoacetaldehyde were prepared and their optical rotations were determined. The value of the optical rotations of the unimers was correlated to the bulk size of the trihalomethyl group and they were compared to those of the unimer of formaldehyde and bornyl acetate. The bornyloxy terminated trihaloacetaldehydes consist of 2 diastereomeric unimers. In the cases of the chloral and bromal unimers they have been isolated. One diastereomer of the trichloroacetaldehyde unimers was crystallized and its absolute configuration was established by x-ray spectroscopy.
Chloroacetaldehyde, a probable metabolite of 2-chloroethanol (ethylene chlorohydrin), was studied in a number of in vivo animal systems, in in vitro hemolysis tests, and in tissue cultures to obtain a toxicity profile of the compound. Acute toxicity tests were conducted in mice, rats, guinea pigs, and rabbits by one or more routes of administration. Tissue culture tests utilized both the agar-overlay and protein assay methods. Irritant activity was evaluated by intramuscular implantation, intradermal injection, and dermal and ophthalmic applications in the rabbit. Acute cardiovascular effects in rabbits were also determined. Sleeping-time tests in mice were conducted to assess the effect of chloroacetaldehyde pretreatment (inhalation and intraperitoneal) upon drug-metabolizing enzymes. The compound was tested in guinea pigs for its sensitizing potential. Cumulative (30 daily injections) and subacute (three injections per week for 12 weeks) toxicity studies were conducted to evaluate subtle toxic effects (e.g., weight gain, hematology, and histopathology) as well as lethality. Chloroacetaldehyde is a very toxic and irritating compound in acute tests; in tests of longer duration, most of the parameters measured appeared to be normal in animals that survived its lethal activity. The acute toxic effects of chloroacetaldehyde are compared with those of 2-chloroethanol. The former is inherently more toxic and irritating, while the latter exhibits greater ease of quantitative penetration through the GI tract and the intact skin.
Abstract Copolymers of trichloroacetaldehyde (chloral) and 1,3,5-trioxane have been prepared in solvent-free systems with aluminium bromide as an initiator at 4 and −15°. CH2Cl2 inhibited polymerization. From i.r.-spectra and chlorine determinations, the copolymers were found to have degrees of polymerization of about 40 and to contain 4–17 mole % oxymethylene units. X-ray diffraction studies indicated a completely amorphous material and no melting was observed with differential scanning calorimetry. The latter method indicated a decomposition temperature of 300°, compared with 180 and 220° for polyoxymethylene and polychloral respectively. The copolymers were stable towards chemical treatments deleterious to the corresponding homopolymers viz. 10% aq. KOH at 25° and concentrated H2SO4 at 130°. The stability towards alkaline solutions shows that the haloform reaction with polychloral proceeds via depolymerization and not via direct attack on the polymer chain.
Abstract The degradation of 1,2-dichloroethane (DCE) by Xanthobacter autotrophicus GJ10 proceeds via chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), a toxic intermediate in the cells if it is not metabolized further by the NAD+-dependent CAA dehydrogenases. Here, we describe the cloning, sequence and expression in Escherichia coli of aldA, a plasmid-located CAA dehydrogenase-encoding gene of GJ10 as well as a chromosomal homolog, designated aldB. The DNA-predicted amino acid (aa) sequences of the two proteins (505 aa in AldA and 506 aa in AldB) are 84% identical. The cloned aldA and aldB genes were verified by their expression in the E. coli T7 polymerase/promoter and the pUC lac promoter systems. The expression level of AldA and its enzymatic activity towards CAA were both higher than those of AldB. In a hybrid construct, the 3′end of aldB was able to complement, although not completely, the corresponding portion of aldA to produce a functional gene. Both AldA and AldB proteins of GJ10 share the highest degree of sequence identity with an acetaldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) encoded by acoD of Alcaligenes eutrophus (77.3–78% identity). Together with at least three other ALDHs of prokaryotic origin, these proteins apparently form a special class of ALDHs whose expressions are dependent on RpoN factors. By pulsed-field gel electrophoresis the 225-kb pXAU1 plasmid encoding aldA was shown to be linear.
Abstract Reactive sorption of two chlorinated volatile organic compounds (CVOCs) has been investigated on ZSM-5 zeolites using in situ FTIR. Zeolites exchanged with different cations (Cr-ZSM-5, Ag-ZSM-5, and H-ZSM-5) and with atomic Si/Al ratios of 15, 25, and 40 were examined. Two dilute vapor phase CVOCs, trichloroethylene (TCE) and 1,3-dichloropropene (DCP) were added in N2 at both 25 and 120 °C to the zeolite samples in an FTIR transmission cell during separate experiments. For TCE, based on repetitive FTIR scans, a reaction mechanism that included formation of dichloroacetaldehyde and phosgene was proposed for the ambient data. Results show that chemisorbed oxygen, coordinated with the active catalytic sites, formed CO bonds with TCE under the oxygen depletive cell conditions studied. A dehydrochlorination mechanism was proposed to explain the ambient DCP data. Relative ambient reactivity by cation type for both CVOCs was Cr > H > Ag. This ordering is consistent with the oxygen pick-up capacities of the exchanged cations. Total acidity values of the catalysts and their relative site strengths appear to be of secondary influence. No clear trends could be found relating reactivity to Si/Al ratio, presumably because the range of values studied was too narrow. For both feeds and all catalysts, coke formation was the main reaction at 120 °C.
We studied the formation of d(A-T)n cruciforms in E.coli cells by probing intracellular plasmid DNA with chloroacetaldehyde followed by fine analysis of modified DNA bases. d(A-T)16 sequences were inserted into specifically designed plasmids either upstream of a single trc promoter, or between two divergent trc promoters. We found that in both cases, induction of transcription by IPTG leads to the transition of the d(A-T)16 stretch into a cruciform state. In the case of two divergent promoters, we observed cruciform formation even without IPTG. Enhanced cruciform formation correlates with the elevation in promoter activity as defined by the opening of the promoter at the -10 to +2 positions. We conclude that transcriptionally driven negative supercoiling provokes cruciform formation in vivo.
Vinyl carbamate epoxide (VCO) was found to possess strong electrophilic, mutagenic and carcinogenic activities. It reacted with water at 37 degrees C and pH 7.4 (phosphate buffer) to form glycolaldehyde and several related reducing compounds; none of these products were mutagenic for Salmonella typhimurium TA1535. Under these conditions VCO had a half-life (determined chemically and mutagenically) of approximately 10.5 min. This half-life was progressively lowered by increasing concentrations of chloride ion (liver, serum and isotonic levels). This ion reacted with VCO to form chloroacetaldehyde. VCO also reacted with other nucleophiles such as glutathione, DNA and its constituent guanine and adenine bases. The purine adducts formed by VCO in DNA in vitro and in vivo were released by weak acid treatment and consisted of 7-(2'-oxoethyl)guanine and N2,3-ethenoguanine as major products with 1,N6-ethenoadenine as a minor product. VCO was a strong direct mutagen in Salmonella typhimurium TA1535 and TA100 but was only weakly active in the TA98 mutant. VCO was a stronger initiator of carcinogenesis in the skin of CD-1 mice and in the liver of infant male B6C3F1 mice than its metabolic precursors vinyl carbamate (VC) and ethyl carbamate (EC). Unlike VC and EC, VCO was a strong complete carcinogen in the skin of CD-1 mice and induced papillomas and carcinomas following repetitive administration of sub-ulcerogenic doses. VCO also exhibited some carcinogenic activity in the lungs of mice and in the s.c. and mammary tissue of female Sprague-Dawley rats. These data and those from other recent studies support the conclusion that VCO is a major strong electrophilic, mutagenic and carcinogenic metabolite of EC and VC in the mouse.
An inducible methanol dehydrogenase showing high activity with 2-chloroethanol was purified from 2-chloroethanol-grown cells of the 1,2-dichloroethane utilizing bacterium Xanthobacter autotrophicus GJ10. The enzyme consisted of a 60 kDa polypeptide that was associated with a 10 kDa polypeptide and contained pyrrolo-quinoline quinone (PQQ) as a prosthetic group. Chloroethanol-grown cells of strain G J 10 also contained an inducible NAD-dependent chloroacetaldehyde dehydrogenase. Its involvement in the metabolism of 2-chloroethanol was inferred from its absence in a 2-chloroethanol non-utilizing mutant. Three different isolates of X . autotrophicus that do not utilize 2-chloroethanol for growth produced chloroethanol dehydrogenase and chloroacetaldehyde dehydrogenase activities at similar levels as strain GJ10. It is concluded that both dehydrogenases are involved in the metabolism of natural compounds and due to their broad substrate specificity fortuitously also play a role in the metabolism of the xenobiotic compounds 1,2-dichloroethane and 2-chloroethanol.
Xanthobacter autotrophicus GJ 10 is a nitrogen-fixing hydrogen bacterium that is able to utilize 1,2-dichloroethane or 2-chloroethanol as a sole carbon and energy source (Janssen et al., 1984 . The organism constitutively produces two dehalogenases, one specific for 1,2-dichloroethane and related haloalkanes (Keuning et a!., 1989, and one specific for halogenated carboxylic acids. It was proposed that 1,2-dichloroethane is degraded via 2-chloroethanol, chloroacetaldehyde and chloroacetic acid to glycolate. During growth on 1,2-dichloroethane or methanol, X . autotrophicus GJ 10 produced both methanol dehydrogenase and 2-chloroethanol dehydrogenase activities. This simultaneous induction raised the supposition that the activities are related to a single protein . Conversion of 2-chloroethanol by purified methanol dehydrogenase was observed by Anthony & Zatman (1967) for the enzyme of Pseudornonas M27 and by Beardsmore-Gray et al. (1983) for the enzyme of Methylophilus methylotrophus.
Further metabolism by the above route would require the presence of chloroacetaldehyde dehydrogenase. This activity has not yet been demonstrated in X . autotrophicus GJ10, but an NAD-dependent chloroacetaldehyde dehydrogenase was described in an unidentified 1,2-dichloroethane utilizing bacterium (Stucki et al., 1983) .
[2 ] first pointed out that beside overt for the urotoxicity seen after both drugs. Binding of renal FS most patients treated with high cumulative acrolein by mesna is highly eÂective in reducing ifosfamide doses develop subclinical renal impairment, haemorrhagic cystitis. Consequently, ifosfamide as well primarily located at the proximal tubular site. Distal as cyclophosphamide treatment is always combined tubular as well as glomerular dysfunction are secondary with mesna therapy. to the primary proximal tubular damage. Impairment DiÂerences in the metabolism of the two parent of tubular amino acid transport is the leading renal drugs concern side-chain oxidation, which is of minor symptom of ifosfamide-induced renal damage. importance in cyclophosphamide metabolism. Clinically, the most important manifestation of tubular Consequently the products of this side-chain oxidadysfunction is renal phosphate wasting which is seen tion-especially chloroacetaldehyde-have been specin approximately 30% of patients and which determines ulated to be responsible for the ifosfamide-induced the extent of hypophosphataemia and the resulting nephrotoxicity. Since this diÂerence in metabolism is metabolic bone disease. The aÂected patients may merely a quantitative diÂerence, at least some extent develop rickets, growth failure, fluid and electrolyte of proximal tubular damage should be expected followloss as well as renal tubular acidosis [1].
We studied the formation of d(A-T)n cruciforms in E.coli cells by probing intracellular plasmid DNA with chloroacetaldehyde followed by fine analysis of modified DNA bases. d(A-T)16 sequences were inserted into specifically designed plasmids either upstream of a single trc promoter, or between two divergent trc promoters. We found that in both cases, induction of transcription by IPTG leads to the transition of the d(A-T)16 stretch into a cruciform state.
An NADP+-linked acetaldehyde dehydrogenase (EC 1.2.1.4) from the ethanol producing bacterium Zymomonas mobilis was purified 180-fold to homogeneity. The enzyme is a cytosolic protein with an isoelectric point of 8.0 and has an apparent molecular weight of 210000. It showed a single band in sodium dodecylsulfate gel electrophoresis with a molecular weight of 55000, which indicates that it consists of four probably identical subunits. The apparent Km values for the substrate acetaldehyde were 57 μM and for the cosubstrate NADP+ 579 μM. The enzyme was almost inactive with NAD+ as cofactor. Several other aldehydes besides acetaldehyde were accepted as a substrate but not formaldehyde or trichloroacetaldehyde. In anaerobically grown cells of Zymomonas mobilis the enzyme showed a specific activity of 0.035 U/mg protein but its specific activity could be increased up to 0.132 U/mg protein by adding acetaldehyde to the medium during the exponential growth phase or up to 0.284 U/mg protein when cells were grown under aeration. The physiological role of the enzyme is discussed.
Objective. To provide an overview of the proposed pathophysiology of ifosfamide encephalopathy and the role of methylene blue for the treatment and prevention of this toxicity.Data Source. A Medline search using the terms ‘‘ifosfamide encephalopathy’’ and ‘‘methylene blue’’ was conducted for the period of 1990-2001. The reference lists from retrieved articles were reviewedData Extraction. The author reviewed the retrieved material and included animal and pharmacokinetic data related to ifosfamide and the pathophysiology of ifosfamide neurotoxicity. Additionally, preclinical data and case reports describing the clinical use and rationale for methylene blue were included.Data Synthesis. Encephalopathy is a unique toxicity described with ifosfamide, but not with cyclophosphamide. Ifosfamide undergoes a secondary ‘‘deactivation’’ metabolic pathway to yield dechloroethylated metabolites and chloroacetalde-hyde. Chloroacetaldehyde is a metabolite that contributes to both the nephrotoxicity and neurotoxicity des...
Abstract To determine the conditions for the migration of vinyl chloride monomer (VCM) into water from polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipes and to examine the reaction between VCM and the chlorine present in drinking water, we studied the migration of VCM into water. It was found that migration of VCM into water from PVC pipes (containing 29.5 ppm VCM) could only be detected by using an apparatus that prevented volatilization of VCM and increasing the surface area of the pipe wall in contact with the water. The amount of VCM which could undergo action of the chlorine in the water decreased markedly with the age of the pipes and when the pH was lowered. VCM occurred in the water was converted to chloroacetaldehyde, chloroacetic acid, etc., by its reaction with chlorine, while the amounts of these reactants varied with pH of the solution was changed.
Abstract Chloroacetaldehyde is a typical refractory toxic petrochemical wastewater to environment, whereas conventional treatment strategies in the wastewater treatment plants are inapplicable to transforming it into nontoxic forms. Therefore, we explored zero valent iron enhanced hydrolytic acidification solution to tackle this problem. Experimental results indicated that zero valent iron enhanced hydrolytic acidification technology possessed the capability to chloroacetaldehyde detoxication, 20.23% and 19.32% increasing dechlorination ratio achieved at initial CAE concentration of 50 and 100 mg/L with 5 g/L ZVI at 48 h. Moreover, ZVI reduced cell death resulted from 0.31, to 1.59 DNA/g VSS reduced at aforementioned parameters. Also, ZVI did not significantly affect predominant butyric acid-type fermentation, but it facilitated the total volatile fatty acids more 43.10, 26.06 and 25.39 mg COD/g VSS produced at 50 and 100 mg/L with at 48 h, particularly, it enhanced the yields of short-chain fatty acid Ac which can be directly used by microbes.
Ifosfamide is a bifunctional alkylating agent, used as a racemic mixture by intravenous route in the treatment of various tumors. It is an oxazaphosphorine derivative with a structural formula similar to that of cyclophosphamide. As a prodrug it requires activation in the liver by a cytochrome mixed-function oxidase system. Among various metabolites, ifosforamide mustard probably represents the most important cytotoxic compound able to produce irreparable cross-links between DNA strands. Resistance is due to the ability of neoplastic cells to repair DNA damages. Acrolein may induce hemorrhagic cystitis, whereas chloroacetaldehyde may be responsible both for nephro- and neurotoxicity. A thiol donor (mesna) can prevent urotoxic effects but not nephro- and neurotoxicity. Pharmacokinetics is markedly influenced by route of administration and duration of treatment, age, co-medication, liver and renal function.
1. A simple procedure for the accurate identification of the positions of adduct formation when viral M13mp18 single stranded DNA is treated with chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) is presented. 2. The normal dideoxy sequencing reaction protocol was employed except no dideoxy nucleotides were used to cause chain termination. 3. Instead, the CAA adducted bases of the template DNA act as points of polymerase fall off causing the appearance of bands of DNA sequencing gel autoradiographs marking locations where adduct formation may have occurred.
9-(2-Phosphonylmethoxyethyl)adenine (PMEA), (S)-9-(3-hydroxy-2-phosphonylmethoxypropyl)adenine (HPMPA), and (R,S)-9-(3-fluoro-2-phosphonylmethoxypropyl)adenine (FPMPA) are selective antiviral agents with activity against a broad spectrum of DNA viruses and retroviruses. A highly sensitive method has been developed to determine concentrations of these compounds in human plasma. Plasma samples containing PMEA, HPMPA, or FPMPA were treated with chloroacetaldehyde to yield the corresponding highly fluorescent 1,N6-ethenoadenine derivatives. Chromatographic separation combined with excitation at 254 nm and fluorescence detection at 425 nm allowed quantification of PMEA, HPMPA, and FPMPA within a concentration range of 0.25-4000 mumol/L. This method proved useful in accurately determining low PMEA concentrations in sera from PMEA-treated monkeys and cats. The assay should be applicable to the quantification of PMEA, HPMPA, and FPMPA in plasma and urine of humans treated with any of these drugs.
Thiopurines are S-substituted antimetabolites that are widely used in the treatment of hematological malignancies and as immunosuppressants. Because of extensive inter-individual variation in drug disposition and the significant toxicity associated with thiopurine therapy, there is a need for improved individualized treatment. We here present a fast and sensitive method for quantifying the pharmacological end-point of thiopurines, 6-thioguanine (TG) in chromosomal DNA. Purine nucleobases are released from DNA, etheno-derivatized with chloroacetaldehyde, separated by HILIC and quantified by tandem mass spectrometry using endogenous chromosomal guanine as internal standard. The method is linear up to at least 10 pmol TG/μg DNA and the limit of detection and quantification are 4.2 and 14.1 fmol TG/μg DNA, respectively. The matrix (DNA) had no effect upon quantification of TG. SPE recovery was estimated at 63% (RSD 26%), which is corrected for by the internal standard resulting in stable quantification. The TG levels found were above the LOQ in 18 out of 18 childhood leukemia patients on 6-mercaptopurine/methotrexate maintenance therapy (median 377, range 45-1190 fmol/μg DNA) with intra- and inter-day RSDs of less than 11%. The method uses 2 μg DNA/sample, which can easily be obtained from these patients.
The oxazaphosphorine antineoplastic ifosfamide (IF) is metabolized by two different initial pathways: ring oxidation (“activation”), forming 4-OH-IF (“activated IF”), and side-chain oxidation with liberation of chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), forming the inactive metabolites 3-dechloroethylifosfamide or 2-dechloroethylifosfamide (3-DCE-IF, 2-DCE-IF). 4-OH-IF and 4-OH-IF-derived acrolein are thought to be responsible for IF-induced urotoxicity (hemorrhagic cystitis), whereas CAA may be involved in IF-associated nephrotoxicity (renal tubular damage). The thiol compound 2-mercaptoethane sulfonate sodium (mesna) has proved to inactivate sufficiently the urotoxic metabolites of oxazaphosphorine cytostatics and is therefore routinely given to patients receiving IF chemotherapy. The cumulative urinary excretion of IF, 4-OH-IF, 3-DCE-IF, 2-DCE-IF, mesna, and its disulfide dimesna was studied in 11 patients with bronchogenic carcinoma receiving IF on a 5-day divided-dose schedule (1.5 g/m2 daily) with concomitant application of mesna (0.3 g/m2 at 0, 4, and 8 h after IF infusion). On day 1 the mean cumulative 24-h urinary recoveries (percentage of the IF dose) recorded for IF, 4-OH-IF, 3-DCE-IF, and 2-DCE-IF were 13.9%, 0.52%, 4.8%, and 1.5%, respectively. On day 5 the corresponding values were 12.2%, 0.74%, 9.9%, and 3.6%, respectively. This time-dependent increase in urinary excretion of IF metabolites, which is caused by rapid autoinduction of hepatic oxidative metabolism, may result in a higher probability for the development of urotoxic and nephrotoxic side effects during prolonged IF application. The mean 24-h urinary recoveries (percentage of the daily mesna dose) recorded for mesna/dimesna on day 1 (day 5) were 23.8%/45.2% (21.2%/39.8%), respectively. The mean molar excess of urinary reduced (“free”) mesna over 4-OH-IF ranged from 11 to 72 on day 1 and from 6 to 40 on day 5. This indicates that although urinary excretion of 4-OH-IF rises with repeated IF application, mesna in standard doses should sufficiently inactivate the urotoxic IF metabolites.
The condensation ofp-nitrothiophenol with formaldehyde and with trichloroacetaldehyde is described. 2,2-Bis(4′-nitro-1′-mercaptophenyl)-1,1,1-trichloroethane is monoclinic,P21/c,a=7.717(2),b=34.666(5),c=7.258(1) (A),β=116.32 (1) (deg.),V=1740.35 (A3),Z=4. The structure was solved by direct methods, from data collected at room temperature on an Enraf-Nonius CAD4 diffractometer, and refined by full-matrix least squares to a finalR value of 0.052 using 1722 reflections. The torsion angles S-C-S-CAr are 159.7(3) and −90.5(4) (deg). The mean planes of the aromatic rings are at 46.8(2) (deg.) to one another. Evidence of intramolecular crowding is given by the inequality of several pairs of angles which would otherwise have been expected to be equal. The bond lengths are normal.
DNAcanbechemically cleaved atthesite of chloroacetaldehyde-modified residues bythechemicals used forMaxam-Gilbert sequencing reactions. Useofthis technique facilitates fine structural analysis ofunpaired DNAbases in DNAwithnon-B-DNA structure. Thismethod wasusedto studythenon-B-DNAstructure adopted bythepoly- (dG)-poly(dC) sequence under torsional stress atvarious ionic conditions. Inthepresence of2mM Mg2+, the5'half ofthe deoxycytosine tract isvery reactive tochloroacetaldehyde, while the3'halfisvirtually unreactive. Inthepoly(dG) tract, chloroacetaldehyde reaction isrestricted tothecenter guanine residues. Intheabsence ofMg2+, however, itisthe5'half ofthe deoxyguanine tract that isreactive tochloroacetaldehyde, while the3'half isunreactive. Andchloroacetaldehyde reaction is restricted tothecenter cytosine residues inthepoly(dC) stretch. These results strongly suggest that thepoly(dG)-poly(dC) se- quence isfolded into halves fromthecenter ofthesequence to formatetra-stranded-like structure. Suchastructure contains either atriplex consisting ofpoly(dG) poly(dG) poly(dC) strands inthepresence ofMg2+oratriplex consisting ofpoly(dC)- poly(dG)'poly(dC)
The traditional Chinese medicine Schisandra chinensis has remarkable protective effects against chemical-induced toxicity. Cyclophosphamide (CTX), in spite advances in chemotherapy and immunosuppressive regimes, is prone to cause severe toxicity due to its chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) metabolite produced by CYP3A. Our previous study identified that S. chinensis extract (SCE) co-administration potently decreased CAA production and attenuated liver, kidney and brain injuries in CTX-treated rats. Gomisin A (Gom A) is proved to be one of the most abundant bioactive lignans in S. chinensis with a significant CYP3A inhibitory effect. To find out whether and how Gom A participated in the chemoprevention of SCE against CTX toxicity, the Gom A-caused CYP3A inhibition in vitro as well as the pharmacokinetic interactions between Gom A and CTX in vivo were examined in this study. Using human liver microsomes, a reversible inhibition assay revealed that Gom A was a competitive inhibitor with a KI value of 1.10 µM, and the time- and NADPH-dependent CYP3A inhibition of Gom A was observed in a time-dependent inhibition assay (KI = 0.35 µM, kinact = 1.96 min−1). Hepatic CYP3A mRNA expression experienced a significant increase in our rat model with Gom A administration. This explained why CAA production decreased in the 0.5 h- and 6 h-pretreatment rat groups while it increased in the 24 h- and 72 h-pretreatment groups, indicating a bidirectional effect of Gom A on CYP3A-mediated CTX metabolism. The present study suggested that Gom A participates like SCE in the pharmacokinetic intervention of CTX by blocking CYP3A-mediated metabolism and reducing CAA production, and thus plays an important role in the chemopreventive activity of S. chinensis against CTX toxicity, in addition to the previously recognized protective effects. Also, the combined use of S. chinensis preparation or other drugs containing Gom A as the main component with CTX needed to be addressed for better clinical intervention.
The traditional Chinese medicine Schisandra chinensis has remarkable protective effects against chemical-induced toxicity. Cyclophosphamide (CTX), in spite advances in chemotherapy and immunosuppressive regimes, is prone to cause severe toxicity due to its chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) metabolite produced by CYP3A. Our previous study identified that S. chinensis extract (SCE) co-administration potently decreased CAA production and attenuated liver, kidney and brain injuries in CTX-treated rats. Gomisin A (Gom A) is proved to be one of the most abundant bioactive lignans in S. chinensis with a significant CYP3A inhibitory effect. To find out whether and how Gom A participated in the chemoprevention of SCE against CTX toxicity, the Gom A-caused CYP3A inhibition in vitro as well as the pharmacokinetic interactions between Gom A and CTX in vivo were examined in this study. Using human liver microsomes, a reversible inhibition assay revealed that Gom A was a competitive inhibitor with a K I value of 1.10 µM, and the time-and NADPH-dependent CYP3A inhibition of Gom A was observed in a time-dependent inhibition assay (K I = 0.35 µM, k inact = 1.96 min −1 ). Hepatic CYP3A mRNA expression experienced a significant increase in our rat model with Gom A administration. This explained why CAA production decreased in the 0.5 h-and 6 h-pretreatment rat groups while it increased in the 24 h-and 72 h-pretreatment groups, indicating a bidirectional effect of Gom A on CYP3A-mediated CTX metabolism. The present study suggested that Gom A participates like SCE in the pharmacokinetic intervention of CTX by blocking CYP3A-mediated metabolism and reducing CAA production, and thus plays an important role in the chemopreventive activity of S. chinensis against CTX toxicity, in addition to the previously recognized protective effects. Also, the combined use of S. chinensis preparation or other drugs containing Gom A as the main component with CTX needed to be addressed for better clinical intervention.
Disturbed Ca 2+ -signaling by chloroacetaldehyde: A possible cause for chronic ifosfamide nephrotoxicity. Background Renal damage following chemotherapy with ifosfamide is attributed to the metabolic activation of the drug and the generation of chloroacetaldehyde (CAA). Little is known about the mechanism by which CAA impairs renal function. In this study the effect of CAA on intracellular Ca 2+ homeostasis in human renal proximal tubule cells (RPTEC) in primary culture was investigated. Methods Intracellular Ca 2+ was measured using the Ca 2+ -sensitive dye fura-2. Cell viability was determined by protein content and cell number. Oncotic and apoptotic cell death was assayed using trypan blue exclusion, caspase-3 activity, and 4′,6-diamino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) staining. Results CAA (1.5 to 150 μmol/L) induced sustained elevations of intracellular free calcium ([Ca 2+ ] i ) from 75 ± 3 nmol/L to maximal 151 ± 6 nmol/L. This effect was dependent on extracellular Ca 2+ , but not Ca 2+ entry. The rise in [Ca 2+ ] i mediated by CAA could be attributed to inhibition of Na + -dependent extrusion of intracellular Ca 2+ , indicating an inhibitory action of CAA on Na + /Ca 2+ exchange. Modulation of protein kinase A (PKA), but not protein kinase C (PKC) blunted the effect of CAA. Thus, CAA seems to inhibit Na + /Ca 2+ exchange by interaction with cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP)-PKA-signaling. A 48-hour exposure to 15 μmol/L CAA significantly reduced cell number and protein content of RPTEC by induction of necrosis. This effect of 15 μmol/L CAA could be overcome by coadministration of the intracellular Ca 2+ chelator 1,2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N′,N′-tetraacetic acid acetoxymethyl ester (BAPTA-AM). Conclusion First, CAA inhibits the Na+/Ca2+-exchanger. Second, this effect is dependent on PKA. Third, CAA induces necrotic rather than apoptotic cell death. Finally, disturbed Ca 2+ homeostasis via Na + /Ca 2+ exchange contributes to the nephrotoxic action of CAA in RPTEC.
N2,3-Ethenoguanine (epsilon G) is a product of vinyl chloride reaction with DNA in vivo and of its ultimate metabolite, chloroacetaldehyde, in vitro. The synthesis of the very labile 5'-triphosphate of N2,3-etheno-deoxyguanosine (epsilon dGuo) has made it possible to study the base pairing properties of this derivative placed opposite a defined normal base in a 25-base oligonucleotide template. The kinetic parameters, Km and Vmax were determined from elongation of a [32P]5'-end labeled primer annealed one base prior to the designated template base, epsilon G.T pairs, which would be mutagenic, were formed with a frequency 2- to 4-fold greater than the analogous wobble pair, G.T. The non-mutagenic pairing, epsilon G.C, occurs with a lower frequency than G.C but neither epsilon G.T or epsilon G.C constitute a significant block to replication. The frequency of epsilon G.T formation was similar with all polymerases tested: Escherichia coli DNA polymerase I (Klenow fragment), exonuclease-free Klenow, Drosophila melanogaster polymerase alpha-primase complex and human immunodeficient virus-I reverse transcriptase (HIV-RT). It is concluded that these prokaryotic and eukaryotic replicating enzymes apparently recognize the same structural features, and on replication G----A transitions would occur, which in turn, could initiate malignant transformation. In contrast to the G.T mismatch which is known to have a specific repair system, etheno derivatives are apparently not repaired in vivo.
Ifosfamide (IF) and cyclophosphamide (CP) are highly effective alkylating cytostatic drugs. IF and CP have to be activated through a metabolic step in vivo; numerous metabolites are known. While both IF and its structural isomer CP have severe urotoxic side effects, only IF is also a nephrotoxic drug, causing tubular damage resulting in Fanconi syndrome in some cases. Little information is available regarding the pathogenic mechanism of tubular damage by IF. We used the renal epithelial cell line LLC-PK1, which has many properties of the proximal tubule, in order to investigate the toxicity of IF and CP and of their reactive metabolites 4-hydroxy-IF (4-OH-IF), 4-hydroxy-CP (4-OH-CP), acrolein and chloroacetaldehyde (CAA). Protein content of monolayers, DNA and RNA synthesis were determined by standard techniques (thymidine and uridine incorporation). IF and CP had the lowest toxicities of all compounds tested. Both drugs inhibited thymidine incorporation by about 30% at a concentration of 300 mumol/l after 1 h incubation. 4-OH-IF and 4-OH-CP were significantly more toxic than the parent drugs. Thymidine incorporation, the most sensitive parameter, was reduced by about 70% by 300 mumol/l of either compound. In addition, 4-OH-CP reduced the total protein content of monolayers. 4-OH-IF did not effect protein content and RNA synthesis. Acrolein, the most toxic metabolite tested, reduced all three parameters significantly at concentrations of 50-75 mumol/l after 1 h.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Exposure of severaltrp-auxotrophicEscherichia coli strains, carrying base0pair substitutions, to chloroethylene oxide or chloroacetaldehyde (two metabolites of vinyl chloride) increased the mutation frequency to tryptophan prototrophy. Strong cytotoxic and mutagenic effects were observed with 2.5 mM chloroethylene oxide, while a higher concentration of chloroacetaldehyde (100 mM) exhibited a mutagenic effect which was 400 times lower.
We report a procedure for quantifying DNA methylation by combining the sodium bisulphite reaction (5,11) with the ability of chloroacetaldehyde to fluorescently label DNA. Sodium bisulphite catalyzes the deamination of cytosine into uracil (50°C, pH 5.0 for 4 h) (11) with negligible m5C deamination ( Figure 1A ). Chloroacetaldehyde reacts quantitatively with the cytosine and adenine bases to give the fluorescent adducts ethenocytosine and ethenoadenine, respectively ( Figure 1B) (1). Uracil, thymine and guanine do not undergo this reaction (1). DNA is rapidly depurinated under acidic conditions (15), so we can remove any adenine with acid and any cytosine with bisulphite. The extent of fluorescence after reaction with chloroacetaldehyde will be proportional to the amount of m5C in the genome.
In the nearly two centuries since the discovery of chloral (2,2,2-trichloroacetaldehyde), numerous nitrogenous reactants have been used to generate products resulting from attack at the carbonyl group by nitrogen. The resulting tetrahedral species, a carbinolamine, is often unstable and has been reported to lose water to produce an imine as well as to lose chloroform to produce an amide. We find that the path, and hence the product, is a function of the electron density at the nitrogen of the reacting amine. The weaker arylamines produce imine whilst the more strongly basic alkylamines produce amide.
Objective To determine the toxicity and mutagenic effect of trichloroacetaldehyde.[Methods]Acute toxicity test,mutation test and single-cell gel electrophoresis(SCGE)were used.[Results]LD 50 for trichloroacetaldehyde by intragastric and dermal administration in male and female rats are1000mg/kg,681mg/kg and1470mg/kg,1210mg/kg,respectively.The acute skin ir-ritation test and acute eye irritation test in rabbits showed that the tested chemical has meddle irritation.The micronucleus test at a dose of160mg/kg,Ames test at1mg/plate and SCGE of lymphocytes in mice and human were positive.[Conclusion] Trichloroacetalde-hyde shows a lowtoxicity,mutation tests are positive.
Mechanisms leading to ifosfamide (IF)-induced renal damage have not been fully elucidated. Recent work suggests that localized renal tubular metabolism of IF and the production of the nephrotoxic chloroacetaldehyde may lead to nephrotoxicity. Presently no pharmacological method to reduce IF nephrotoxicity has been identified. The objectives of this study were to establish a tubule cell model for IF nephrotoxicity, to verify whether renal proximal tubular cells have the necessary cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes to oxidize IF, and whether they can metabolize IF to chloroacetaldehyde. CYP3A, and 2B mRNA and protein were identified in LLCPK-1 cells. The cells metabolized the R- and S-IF enantiomers to their respective 2- and 3-dechloroethylifosfamide metabolites, by-products of chloroacetaldehyde formation. Metabolite production was both time and concentration-dependent. IF did not affect cell viability. In contrast, glutathione-depleted cells showed time and dose-dependent damage. The presence of the relevant CYP enzymes in renal tubular cells along with their ability to metabolize IF to its 2- and 3-dechloroethylifosfamide metabolites suggests that nephrotoxic damage may result from the localized production of chloroacetaldehyde. Glutathione is a major defence mechanism against IF toxicity, thus pharmacological methods for replenishing intracellular glutathione may be effective in modulating IF-induced nephrotoxicity.
Many different assays have been developed for testing the chemosensitivity of tumor cells in vitro, usually based on a single biochemical or cellular parameter. A multiparametric test system has been developed that accommodates on a single chip numerous sensors for metabolic parameters, ΔpH and ΔpO2, as well as for morphological changes. The cells grow directly on the chips and can be continuously monitored online up to several days. The effects of various chemotherapeutic drugs on the metabolic profile of several tumor cell lines have been investigated. In colon carcinoma-derived LS174T cells, cytochalasin B markedly increased oxygen consumption while decreasing the rate of extracellular acidification. These effects, which reflect the biochemical action of cytochalasin B, were reversible on drug removal. In contrast, chloroacetaldehyde markedly reduced respiration, which recovered when the drug was removed. Primary breast cancer cells also responded to chloroacetaldehyde with a marked reduction in ΔpO2, followed by a reduced rate of acidification. Comparing the metabolism of doxorubicin-sensitive and -resistant mouse sarcoma S180 cells, the rates of acidification and respiration were inhibited by doxorubicin only in the sensitive cells, whereas in the resistant cells oxygen consumption even increased. These examples demonstrate that this chipbased test system provides rapid and important information for assessing chemosensitivity of tumor cells.
A derivatization polarographic method was developed for the determination of trichlorfon in vegetables.The trichlorfon was hydrolyzed into dimethyl phosphate and dichloroacetaldehyde,and then the hydrazone was formed from the reaction of dichloroacetaldehyde with phenylhydrazine.A sensitive second derivation voltammetry wave of the hydrazone was obtained at -784 mV(vs.SCE)by single sweep oscilloplolarography.The sensitivity to hydrazone is 200 times larger than that to trichlorfom in optimum conditions.The peak current is proportional to the concentration of trichlorfon over the range of 1.6-83 μg/L(r=0.9912),and the limit of detection is 0.55 μg/L.This method has been used for the determination of trichlorfon in vegetables due to its simpletiy,reliableieity and rapidity.
In the nearly two centuries since the discovery of chloral (2,2,2-trichloroacetaldehyde), numerous nitrogenous reactants have been used to generate products resulting from attack at the carbonyl group by nitrogen. The resulting tetrahedral species, a carbinolamine, is often unstable and has been reported to lose water to produce an imine as well as to lose chloroform to produce an amide. We find that the path, and hence the product, is a function of the electron density at the nitrogen of the reacting amine. The weaker arylamines produce imine whilst the more strongly basic alkylamines produce amide.
In the first issue (1832) of Annalen der Pharmacie (later to become Justus Liebig's Annalen der Chemie) Justus Liebig published an abstract of his studies on the chlorination of ethanol. He subsequently provided (in the second issue) the full details of his investigations of the products of that reaction, one of which was chloral (trichloroacetaldehyde). 1 Little more of substance was published on the reactions of chloral until, nearly forty years later, Oscar Jacobsen showed that chloral reacted with amides to provide simple addition products (trichloromethylcarbinolamines) that retained the carbonyl oxygen (as a hydroxyl) as well as the trichloromethyl group. 2 Shortly thereafter August Hofmann reported that when chloral reacted with 1,2-diaminoethane (ethylenediamine) a bis-N-formylamide and chloroform resulted; 3 and, subsequently, Hugo Schiff showed that chloral reacts with aryl amines to produce imines (Schiff bases) and 1,1-bis-(aryl amines).
For investigation of the structure-activity relationship of xanthine derivatives, 2, 4-dioxo-1, 2, 3, 4-tetrahydropyrrolo [2, 3-d] pyrimidines (A), which belong to 7-deazaxanthine derivatives, were prepared from the corresponding 6-aminouracils and chloroacetaldehyde, and then were catalytically reduced to give 2, 4-dioxo-1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6-hexahydropyrrolo [2, 3-d]-pyrimidines (B). A new method for synthesis of compounds (A) was found by heating 6-hydrazinouracil derivatives with aldehydes or ketones. Diuretic, cardiac, and central nervous system stimulating activities of compounds (A and B) were tested to be compared with those of caffeine. Compounds (A and B) showed caffeine-like activities.
Chloroacetaldehyde has been shown by microwave spectroscopy to exist in two conformations, one with the chlorine and oxygen atoms cis and the other with these two atoms trans. The rotational constants in the ground vibrational states are, for the cis form: A=15 189.90, B=3858.50, C=3135.55 MHz, and for the trans form: A=33 609.44, B=2693.64, and C=2549.46 MHz. The quadrupole coupling constants are, cis: χAA=−18.03, χBB=−18.20, and χCC=36.24 MHz and trans: χAA=−50.09, χBB=12.56, and χCC=37.53 MHz. For the trans form, six excited vibrational states for the torsion were assigned, and the unusual change in rotational constants with vibrational quantum number was attributed to a small bump in the potential function at the trans position.
Oxidation of the vinyl halide carcinogen and hepatotoxin vinylidene chloride (VDC) by microsomal cytochrome P-450 yields 2,2-dichloroacetaldehyde, 2-chloroacetyl chloride, 2-chloroacetic acid, and 1,1-dichloroethylene oxide. The roles of these metabolites in covalent modification of proteins and reduced glutathione (GSH) were examined. 2-Chloroacetyl chloride reacted with model thiols at least 10(3)-fold faster than did 1,1-dichloroethylene oxide and at least 10(5)-fold faster than did 2,2-dichloroacetaldehyde or 2-chloroacetic acid. Microsomal covalent binding of (/sup 14/C)VDC was inhibited by GSH but not by lysine, suggesting that protein thiols, rather than amino groups, are major targets. Liver microsomes catalyzed the formation of three GSH:VDC metabolite conjugates, identified as S-(2,2-dichloro-1-hydroxy)ethylglutathione, 2-(S-glutathionyl)acetate, and S-(2-glutathionyl)acetylglutathione, a novel conjugate containing both stable (thioether) and labile (thioester) linkages. The latter two conjugates also were formed in isolated rat hepatocytes and measurable amounts of 2-(S-glutathionyl)acetate were released into the incubation medium. Both 2-(S-glutathionyl)acetate and S-(2-glutathionyl)acetylglutathione were formed with (/sup 35/S)GSH added to the hepatic medium, indicating that reactive VDC metabolites are capable of crossing the plasma membrane to react with extracellular targets. Unlabeled S-(2-glutathionyl)-acetylglutathione underwent carbonyl substitution with added (/sup 35/S)GSH, suggesting that this conjugate may participate in modification of protein thiols. This conjugate also underwent hydrolysis with a half-life of approximatelymore » 3 hr. GSH:VDC metabolite conjugates may serve as accessible models for labile covalent adducts formed between VDC metabolites and protein thiols.« less
Abstract The effects of inducing agents on the binding and metabolism of vinylidene chloride by hepatic microsomal cytochrome P-450 are reported. Hanes plots for the Type I binding of vinylidene chloride to cytochrome P-450 were biphasic with hepatic microsomes from untreated and β-naphthoflavone- or phenobarbital-treated male rats. Neither pretreatment affected the value of the Ks (ca. 0.22 mM) for the high-affinity binding site for vinylidene chloride, while phenobarbital induction, but not β-naphthoflavone treatment, decreased the value of the Ks for the low-affinity site by 3-fold to ca. 1.6 mM. The maximum extents of binding (ΔAmax or ΔAmax/nmole cytochrome P-450) of vinylidene chloride were decreased or not affected by β-naphthoflavone induction, while ΔAmax but not ΔAmax/ nmole cytochrome P-450 was elevated following phenobarbital induction. The rate of vinylidene chloride stimulated CO-inhibitable hepatic microsomal NADPH oxidation was not affected by β-naphthoflavone induction, but was increased significantly following phenobarbital induction. Vinylidene chloride was converted to monochloroacetate and to the previously unreported metabolite, dichloroacetaldehyde, by hepatic microsomes plus NADPH-generating system. Measurable levels of 2-mono- and 2,2-dichloroethanol, and of chloroacetaldehyde and dichloroacetic acid, were not produced from vinylidene chloride under these conditions. SKF-525A and CO:O2 (80:20, v/v) inhibited the conversion of vinylidene chloride to monochloroacetate and dichloroacetaldehyde by approximately 60%. The rates of production of monochloroacetate and dichloroacetaldehyde in the presence of NADH were ca. 15% of the rates seen with NADPH-generating system. The rate of monochloroacetate production per mg microsomal protein was not affected by β-naphthoflavone induction but was increased slightly following phenobarbital induction. In contrast, the Vmax values per mg microsomal protein for the metabolism of vinylidene chloride to dichloroacetaldehyde were not elevated by either pretreatment. Incubation of vinylidene chloride, NADPH-generating system, EDTA and hepatic microsomes from untreated and β-naphthoflavone- or phenobarbital-treated rats did not result in any significant alterations in the levels of microsomal cytochrome P-450 and heme or in the covalent binding of the mono- or dichloroacetyl moieties to microsomal or buffer constituents, but it did result in significant production of H2O2. It is concluded that multiple forms of cytochrome P-450 bind and metabolize vinylidene chloride. However, the form of the enzyme elevated by phenobarbital plays, at most, a minor role in these processes, while the form induced by β-naphthoflavone is not involved in either process. The effect of metabolism of vinylidene chloride by cytochrome P-450 on the relationship between the metabolism and toxicity of vinylidene chloride in vivo and its mutagenicity in vitro is considered.
A two-step sequence for the preparation of trimethylsilylketene, from chloroacetaldehyde diethyl acetal via ethoxyacetylene, has been modified and optimized.
Abstract Selective epoxidation of vinyl chloride on Ag(111), Pt(111) and Rh(111) with pre-adsorbed atomic oxygen has been studied by density functional theory (DFT) calculation with the periodic slab model. The reaction energies and activation energies of the epoxidation reaction are determined. Because of the asymmetry of vinyl chloride, three competitive reaction pathways are investigated. The results indicate that the most possible reaction pathway is pathway III. Compared the activation energies of the epoxidation reaction on Ag(111), Pt(111) and Rh(111), it is obvious that the reaction via OMMC(3) on Ag(111) is the most possible process. However, the selectivity to the target product over Ag(111) is the lowest among the three metals. The results also indicate that the formation of chloroacetaldehyde is more favorable than that of chloroepoxide.
Degradation of trichloroethylene (TCE) by the methanotrophic bacterium Methylosinus trichosporium OB3b was studied by using cells grown in continuous culture. TCE degradation was a strictly cometabolic process, requiring the presence of a cosubstrate, preferably formate, and oxygen. M. trichosporium OB3b cells degraded TCE only when grown under copper limitation and when the soluble methane monooxygenase was derepressed. During TCE degradation, nearly total dechlorination occurred, as indicated by the production of inorganic chloride, and only traces of 2,2,2-trichloroethanol and trichloroacetaldehyde were produced. TCE degradation proceeded according to first-order kinetics from 0.1 to 0.0002 mM TCE with a rate constant of 2.14 ml min-1 mg of cells-1. TCE concentrations above 0.2 mM inhibited degradation in cell suspensions of 0.42 mg of cells ml-1. Other chlorinated aliphatics were also degraded by M. trichosporium OB3b. Dichloromethane, chloroform, 1,1-dichloroethane, and 1,2-dichloroethane were completely degraded, with the release of stoichiometric amounts of chloride. trans-1,2-Dichloroethylene, cis-1,2-dichloroethylene, and 1,2-dichloropropane were completely converted, but not all the chloride was released because of the formation of chlorinated intermediates, e.g., trans-2,3-dichlorooxirane, cis-2,3-dichlorooxirane, and 2,3-dichloropropanol, respectively. 1,1,1-Trichloroethane, 1,1-dichloroethylene, and 1,3-dichloropropylene were incompletely converted, and the first compound yielded 2,2,2-trichloroethanol as a chlorinated intermediate. The two perchlorinated compounds tested, carbon tetrachloride and tetrachloroethylene, were not converted.
A sensitive method has been developed for spectrophotometric determination of an organophosphorous pesticide dichlorvos, also known as 2,2 dichlorovinyl methyl phosphate or dichlorophos. The method is based on hydrolysis of dichlorvos by sodium hydroxide to produce dichloroacetaldehyde, which on coupling with phloroglucinol in alkaline medium, gives orange colour. The orange dye shows absorption maxima at 475 nm and obeys Beer's law in the range of 10 -100μg/25 mL (0.4 to 4 ppm) of solution. The molar absorptivity and Sandell's sensitivity were found to be 4.53 x 10 4 1 mol - 1 cm - 1 and 0.0048 μg cm - 2 respectively. The method has been successfully applied for the determination of dichlorvos in water, agricultural soil and vegetables.
Detailed mechanisms are outlined for the chemical reactions involved In the atmospheric removal of four unsaturated chlorinated aliphatic contaminants, allyl chloride, chloroprene, hexachlorocyclopentadiene and vlnylldene chloride. Rate constants estimated from structure-reactivity relationships Indicate rapid removal for all four compounds by reactions with OH (major), ozone, and NO3, with half-lives of 2-16 hrs for removal by reaction with OH. Reaction products of allyl chloride (formaldehyde, chloroacetaldehyde, peroxychloroacetyl nitrate) and vinylidene chloride (formaldehyde, phosgene, chloroacetyl chloride) are consistent with OH addition-Initiated pathways that include Cl atom elimination. The chlorine atoms produced In the OH reaction sequence react rapidly with all four unsaturated compounds, but these reactions are of negligible Importance for atmospheric removal of the four toxic contaminants studied. Analogous mechanisms are discussed for chloroprene (leading to formaldehyde, CH2 = CCICHO, and...
Abstract The rate constant for the reaction of the hydroxyl radical with 1,1,1-trichloroacetaldehyde has been determined at 298 ± 2 K. Rate data were obtained at atmospheric pressure by a relative rate method. The rate constant was also measured at lower pressures (1–3.4 Torr) using the discharge flow technique with OH radical detection both by resonance fluorescence and electron paramagnetic resonance. The results provide a value of k (OH + CCl 3 CHO) = (1.1 ± 0.2) × 10 −12 cm 3 molecule −1 s −1 at room temperature giving an atmospheric lifetime for CCl 3 CHO with respect to reaction with OH radicals of 290 h.
HPLC Analysis of Ado and Its Nucleotides. Calu-3 epithelia were washed three times with Hanks' balanced salt solution buffer and loaded with 0.5 ml of buffer on the luminal surface. After 3 h at 37°C, 0.3 ml of the surface liquid was carefully collected for HPLC analysis. Adenine-containing species were derivatized with 2-chloroacetaldehyde (14), and the resulting fluorescent 1,N 6 -ethenopurines were separated by HPLC.
Xanthobacter autotrophicus GJ10 is a bacterium that can degrade short-chain halogenated aliphatic compounds such as 1,2-dichloroethane. A 200-kb plasmid, pXAU1, was isolated from this strain and shown to contain the dhlA gene, which codes for haloalkane dehalogenase, the first enzyme in the degradation pathway of 1,2-dichloroethane by GJ10. Loss of pXAU1 resulted in loss of haloalkane dehalogenase activity, significantly decreased chloroacetaldehyde dehydrogenase activity, and loss of resistance to mercuric chloride but did not affect the activity level of haloalkanoate dehalogenase, the second dehalogenase in the degradation of 1,2-dichloroethane.
Abstract An efficient and versatile synthesis of piperazine-2-carboxamides 5 is described. The preparation consists of a one-pot, 4-component Ugi condensation between an N-alkylethylenediamine 1 , chloroacetaldehyde ( 2 ), an isonitrile 3 and a carboxylic acid 4 .
The determination principle of trichloroacetaldehyde in water by pyrazolone-spectrophotometry is studied,and it is used in the determination of trace trichloroacetaldehyde in byproduct-waste sulfuric acid from trichloroacetaldehyde production.The pyrazolone-spectrophotometry method is determined as the final quantitative analysis method for determining the trace trichloroacetaldehyde in byproduct-waste sulfuric acide from trichloroacetaldehyde production of Nantong Jiangshan Pesticide Chemical Industry Co.,Ltd.
Toxic medium chain length alkanals, alkenals, and 4-hydroxyalkenals that are generated during lipid peroxidation are potential substrates for aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) isoforms. We have developed transgenic cell lines to examine the potential for either human ALDH1A1 or ALDH3A1 to protect against damage mediated by these toxic aldehydes. Using crude cytosols from stably transfected cell lines, these aldehydes were confirmed to be excellent substrates for ALDH3A1, but were poorly oxidized by ALDH1A1. Expression of ALDH3A1 by stable transfection in V79 cells conferred a high level of protection against growth inhibition by the medium-chain length aldehyde substrates with highest substrate activity, including hexanal, trans-2-hexenal, trans-2-octenal, trans-2-nonenal, and 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (HNE). This was reflected in a parallel ability of ALDH3A1 to prevent depletion of glutathione by these aldehydes. Expression of hALDH3 completely blocked the potent induction of apoptosis by HNE in both V79 cells and in a RAW 264.7 murine macrophage cell line, consistent with the observed total prevention of HNE-protein adduct formation. Structure-activity studies indicated that the rank order of potency for the contributions of HNE functional groups to toxicity was aldehyde >/=C2=C3 double bond>>C4-hydroxyl group. Oxidation of the aldehyde moiety of HNE to a carboxyl by ALDH3A1 expressed in stably transfected cell lines drastically reduced its potency for growth inhibition and apoptosis induction. In contrast, ALDH1A1 expression provided only moderate protection against trans-2-nonenal (t2NE), and none against the other six-nine carbon aldehydes. Neither ALDH1A1 nor ALDH3A1 conferred any protection against acrolein, acetaldehyde, or chloroacetaldehyde. A small degree of protection against malondialdehyde was afforded by ALDH1A1, but not ALDH3A1. Paradoxically, cells expressing ALDH3A1 were 1.5-fold more sensitive to benzaldehyde toxicity than control V79 cells. These studies demonstrate that expression of class 3 ALDH, but not class 1 ALDH, can be an important determinant of cellular resistance to toxicity mediated by aldehydes of intermediate chain length that are produced during lipid peroxidation.
Abstract The kinetics of enzymatic aldol reaction catalyzed by DERA (2-deoxyribose-5-phosphate aldolase) was studied. The reaction between acetyloxyacetaldehyde/acetaldehyde and chloroacetaldehyde/acetaldehyde in the presence of DERA produces chiral lactol intermediates, which are useful in the synthesis of optically pure super-statins. The experimental approach was designed studying batch and fed-batch reaction conditions adding different amounts of applied reactants. A three-step kinetic model was proposed including the formation of the intermediate product, synthesis of the main desired product and the synthesis of the side product by parallel non-desired secondary reaction. The kinetics of enzyme inactivation caused by reactants was also included in kinetic model design. The establishment of the kinetic model based on the two-substrates binding assuming random mechanism. After the development of the kinetic model, kinetic parameters were determined by non-linear least squares approximation search method, until the minimal differences between experimental and calculated data were achieved. The highest concentrations of the desired main product were produced in the case of fed-batch experiments applying such feeding regime that minimal surplus of reactants in the reaction mixture was attained, which consequently led to lower losses in the enzyme activity. Obtained kinetic parameters showed similar value of inactivation constant for acetyloxyacetaldehyde and acetaldehyde, whereas in the case of chloroacetaldehyde the number was significantly higher. To our knowledge, this is the first developed kinetic model describing the DERA catalyzed reaction of 2-substituted acetaldehydes to corresponding lactols. Obtained kinetic model can be used in further reactor design in the manner of optimizing the process by lowering the loss of enzyme activity in order to achieve higher amounts of the desired main product.
Vinyl chloride (VC), a known human and rodent carcinogen, is metabolically activated by cytochrome P450 to chloroethylene oxide (CEO), which can rearrange to chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) or undergo hydrolysis. To further understand the roles of CEO and CAA in VC mutagenesis, the types and frequencies of mutations induced at the hypoxanthine (guanine) phosphoribosyl-transferase (hprt) locus were examined in a human B-lymphoblastoid line constitutively expressing human cytochrome P450 2E1 (H2E1 cells). VC was toxic and mutagenic to H2E1 cells as a function of incubation time; exposure to 7.5% VC in air resulted in 75% survival and an hprt mutant frequency of 42 x 10(-6) after 48 h, compared to 5.7 +/- 2.7 x 10(-6) for unexposed cells. The exposure of H2E1 cells to 0.8 to 15.0% VC in air produced similar mutant frequencies without a clear dose-response relationship, suggesting saturation of metabolic activation. Both CEO and CAA exhibited dose-dependent increases in cell killing and mutant frequency in H2E1 cells. Treatment with 16 microM CEO for 24 h resulted in 75% survival and an induced mutant frequency of 23 x 10(-6), while 16 microM CAA produced 5% survival and an induced mutant frequency of 20 x 10(-6). Structural alterations at the hprt locus in independent thioguanine-resistant clones were examined by Southern blot analysis of Pst I-digested DNA with a full-length human hprt cDNA probe. Ten percent (5/50) of VC-induced and 18% (7/38) of CEO-induced mutants showed detectable deletions, compared with 45% (9/20) of CAA-induced mutants. Thus, VC and CEO displayed similar toxicity/mutation profiles and a similar frequency of large deletions, whereas CAA displayed greater toxicity and a larger frequency of deletion mutations. These results suggest that the majority of mutations induced by VC occur through its metabolite, CEO.
A simple fluorometric method for the determination of cAMP is presented. The fluorescent derivative is 1,N6-etheno cyclic 3,5-monophosphate (etheno-cAMP). Maximal formation of this derivative occurs after reacting cAMP with chloroacetaldehyde for 15 minutes at 100 degrees C. Fluorescent derivatives are also produced from compounds which contain a 6-amino purine. The specificity of the method resides in the use of a reverse phase/HPLC system. The derivatization as well as the fluorescent response of etheno-cAMP is linear between 2.5 and 700 picomoles of cAMP. Studies of brain adenylate cyclase by the fluorometric/HPLC method indicated that this method is comparable to the established radioenzymatic method. Thus, the present method provides a simple rapid nonradioactive means for the determination of adenylate cyclase activity.
A sensitive and selective reversed-phase liquid chromatographic assay for tenofovir in human plasma has been developed and validated. Tenofovir was isolated from a 200 microl plasma sample using protein precipitation with trichloroacetic acid. The fluorescent 1,N(6)-etheno derivative is formed at 98 degrees C in the buffered extract with chloroacetaldehyde. This derivative was analysed using gradient ion-pair liquid chromatography and fluorescence detection at 254 nm for excitation and 425 nm for emission. In the evaluated concentration range (20-1000 ng/ml), the intra-day precision was 4% and the inter-day precision was 5-6%. An accuracy of between 97 and 110% was determined. The lower limit of quantification was 20 ng/ml with an inter-day precision of 11%, an intra-day precision of 12% and an accuracy of 103%. The assay is subject to interference from co-administered abacavir. The usefulness of the assay was demonstrated for samples obtained from an HIV-infected patient treated with tenofovir.
Vertebrate chromatin is organized into loops by periodic attachment to the nuclear scaffold or matrix at positions whose average separations are approximately 60 kb in somatic cells Mirkovitch et al., 1987; Vogelstein et al., 1980) , and 27 kb in the male haploid genome (Barone et al., 1994) . The DNA elements mediating this attachment have been termed scaffold-attached or matrix associated regions (S/MARs). S/MARs are unique features of eukaryotic genomes, as demonstrated by the observation that S/MAR ± scaffold interactions cannot be disrupted by an up to 60,000-fold excess of double stranded bacterial DNA . Recently it has been demonstrated that centromeric regions have clusters of attachment sites concentrated along the chromosomal axis (Strissel et al., 1996) . S/MAR elements are associated with a variety of biological functions, apparently in consequence either of their structure and/or of their interactions with proteins. Experiments suggest they play important roles during gene expression. S/MARs are thought to support cell type-speci®c expression of genes (Bonifer et al., 1994; McKnight et al., 1992, Abbreviations used: a, linking difference; s, superhelical density; ARS, autonomously replicating sequence; bp, base pair; BRIGHT, B cell regulator of IgH transcription; BUR, base-unpairing region; CAA, chloroacetaldehyde; CUE, core-unwinding element; huIFN-b, human interferon-b; IFNB, gene encoding IFN-b; IR, inverted repeat; LINE, long interspersed reiterated element; ORF, open reading frame; ORI, origin of replication; SAR, scaffold-attached region; MAR, matrix-associated region; S/MAR, consensus term covering SARs and MARs; NF-mNR, nuclear factor-m negative regulator; SIDD, stress-induced duplex destabilization. 1996 ) and have been implicated in gene switching during development (Boulikas, 1995) . Evidence from several laboratories shows that some S/MARs coexist with enhancers (Gasser & Laemmli, 1986 ). This association is particularly intriguing, as most or all S/MARs also have the capacity to augment transcription via a non-enhancer mechanism (for a review, see Bode et al., 1995) . The most thoroughly studied example involves the immunoglobulin k and m-chain intronic enhancers, which are associated with one and with two distinct S/MAR elements, respectively (Cockerill & Garrard, 1986a,b; Cockerill et al., 1987) . They function in domain opening Ka È s et al., 1993) , which occurs in forming accessible chromatin domains during embryonic development (Forrester et al., 1994; Jenuwein et al., 1993) . The regional demethylation that must occur as a prerequisite for opening utilizes distinct cis-acting modules, including the intronic enhancer element and the S/MAR (Jenuwein et al., 1997; Lichtenstein et al., 1994) . While any S/MAR sequence appears to be able to function in this reaction, tissue speci®city is mediated by sequences within the intronic enhancer (Kirillov et al., 1996) . Some, and possibly all, of these enhancer-related activities are regulated by speci®c S/MAR binding factors. Among these, the nuclear factor-m negative regulator (NFmNR) and the B cell regulator of IgH transcription (BRIGHT) show a reciprocal lymphoid expression pattern. NF-mNR is expressed in non-B cells, where it attenuates the enhancer (Scheuermann & Chen, 1989; Zong & Scheuermann, 1995) , while BRIGHT upregulates IgH expression in mature B cells (Herrscher et al., 1995) . The sites speci®c for BRIGHT also are recognized by SATB1, which was the ®rst protein for which a S/MAR-related association was noted Herrscher et al., 1995) .
Quantification of Protein-Bound Poly(ADP-Ribose) in Hepatocellular Chromatin. Protein-bound poly(ADP-ribose) was determined by the method of Jacobson et al. (6). Briefly, acid-insoluble fractions were dissolved under alkaline conditions in the presence of EDTA to release poly(ADP-ribose) from its protein acceptors. Polymers of ADP-ribose were then purified by affinity chromatography on a boronate resin and subsequently digested to nucleosides by incubation with inake venom phosphodiesterase (Worthington) and bacterial Ikaline phosphatase (type III-S, Sigma). Following derivazation to the fluorescent 1,N6-ethenonucleoside analogues 'vith chloroacetaldehyde, the nucleosides were separated by reversed-phase HPLC, and the amount of 1,N6-ethenoribosyladenosine derived from internal residues of poly-(ADP-ribose) was determined with a fluorescence detector *T-lom reprint requests should be addressed.
• C) [1] , that has been used widely since its introduction in the United States in 1954. DDVP acts by inhibiting acetylcholine esterase, an enzyme that is very important in the nervous system of all vertebrates and some invertebrates. Since the mutagenicity of DDVP was suspected in Salmonella species [2] , some studies have been done on the degradation of this compound in the photochemical treatment [3, 4] and in the soil by some soil microorganisms [5] [6] [7] . It has been shown that DDVP is decomposed to dimethylphosphate and dichloroacetaldehyde and subsequently broken down into dichloroacetic acid, 2,2-dichloroethanol, and ethyl dichloroacetate [8] . DDVP is highly toxic by inhalation, dermal absorption and ingestion [9, 10] . Effects of DDVP on prokaryotic and eukaryotic microorganisms have been reviewed by health organizations [11] .
The cyclic ketene acetal, 2-methylene-4-phenyl-1,3-dioxolane (3), was shown to undergo free radical ring-opening polymerization to produce the polyester, poly[γ-(β-phenyl)butyrolactone]. The monomer 3 was synthesized by an acetal exchange reaction of chloroacetaldehyde dimethyl acetal with styrene glycol in an 87% yield followed by dehydrochlorination of the resulting cis and trans-2-chloromethyl-4-phenyl-1,3-dioxolane (2) with potassium tert-butoxide in tert-butyl alcohol in a 70% yield. 3 was shown to undergo essentially quantitative free radical ring-opening at all temperatures from 60–150°C and also nearly complete regioselective ring-opening with cleavage to give the more highly stable secondary benzyl free radical. Even in free radical copolymerization with styrene, methyl methacrylate, vinyl acetate, or 4-vinylpyridine, 3 gives essentially complete ring opening to introduce an ester groups into the backbone of the addition copolymer. The structures of the polymers were established by elemental analysis and 1H and 13C NMR spectroscopy.
Abstract When chloroacetaldehyde is added to dioldehydrase and coenzyme B12, tritium exchange with the C-5' hydrogen of enzyme-bound coenzyme B12 occurs without chemical modification of chloroacetaldehyde. The reaction also leads to loss of enzyme activity and the conversion of the adenosyl moiety of the enzyme-bound coenzyme to 5'-deoxyadenosine. 5'-Deoxyadenosine formation is stoichiometric with enzyme inactivation. We tentatively conclude that an enzyme-bound intermediate occurs which consists of 5'-deoxyadenosine or closely related compound and an adduct between chloroacetaldehyde and the cobalamin. The chloroacetaldehyde-cobalamin adduct, unlike that derived from other substrates, is unstable and decomposes to as yet unidentified products. As a result of this decomposition 5'-deoxyadenosine accumulates. Chloroacetaldehyde labels the enzyme covalently in the presence or absence of coenzyme. One mole of chloroacetaldehyde is introduced per mole of enzyme. This process is much slower than the enzyme inactivation which occurs when chloroacetaldehyde is added to the enzyme-coenzyme complex and is therefore not the cause of inactivation. Addition of chloroacetaldehyde to dioldehydrase-coenzyme B12, brings about a spectral change which is far more rapid than enzyme inactivation. The resulting spectrum is very similar to that of cob(II)alamin and indicates that essentially all of the enzyme-bound coenzyme is converted to cob(II)alamin. Addition of N2O to dioldehydrase-coenzyme B12 leads to a 10 to 15% reduction in rate, but no coenzyme inactivation was found. Our data do not warrant the conclusion, reached by others, that N2O reacts with cob(I)alamin derived from the coenzyme.
Abstract O 6 -Methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) is a DNA repair protein that protects cells from the biological consequences of alkylating agents by removing alkyl groups from the O 6 -position of guanine. Cyclophosphamide and ifosfamide are oxazaphosphorines used clinically to treat a wide variety of cancers; however, the role of MGMT in recognizing DNA damage induced by these agents is unclear. In vitro evidence suggests that MGMT may protect against the urotoxic oxazaphosphorine metabolite, acrolein. Here, we demonstrate that Chinese hamster ovary cells transfected with MGMT are protected against cytotoxicity following treatment with chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), a neuro- and nephrotoxic metabolite of cyclophosphamide and ifosfamide. The mechanism by which MGMT recognizes damage induced by acrolein and CAA is unknown. CHO cells expressing a mutant form of MGMT (MGMT R128A ), known to have >1000-fold less repair activity towards alkylated DNA while maintaining full active site transferase activity towards low molecular weight substrates, exhibited equivalent CAA- and acrolein-induced cytotoxicity to that of CHO cells transfected with plasmid control. These results imply that direct reaction of acrolein or CAA with the active site cysteine residue of MGMT, i.e. scavenging, is unlikely a mechanism to explain MGMT protection from CAA and acrolein-induced toxicity. In vivo, no difference was detected between Mgmt −/− and Mgmt +/+ mice in the lethal effects of cyclophosphamide. While MGMT may be important at the cellular level, mice deficient in MGMT are not significantly more susceptible to cyclophosphamide, acrolein or CAA. Thus, our data does not support targeting MGMT to improve oxazaphosphorine therapy.
High sensitivity (10(-7) to 10(-9) M) reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) analysis of adenine nucleosides and nucleotides, especially in a biological matrix, is difficult using only ultraviolet detection. Derivatization coupled with fluorescence detection has been investigated as a means of enhancing sensitivity for the reversed-phase HPLC analysis of 2'-beta-fluoro-2',3'-dideoxyadenosine (F-ddA), an experimental, acid-stable, anti-AIDS drug. The reaction of chloroacetaldehyde with the adenine base has been employed to form fluorescent 1,N(6)-etheno derivatives of F-ddA and 5'-deoxyadenosine, which is used as an internal standard. These derivatives give an analytically useful fluorescence emission at 416 nm after excitation at 230, 265, or 275 nm. Derivatization, fluorescence detection and reversed-phase chromatography have been optimized for the analysis of nanomolar concentrations of F-ddA in human plasma. This method has potential for the measurement of F-ddA at low concentration and in limited volume samples from in vivo biological studies.
A constraint in the reliability of predictive chemosensitivity assays is linked to the fact that they analyze only a single cellular or biochemical parameter. A multiparametric test system using microsensor chips has been developed which can detect online microphysiological changes in living cells. Tumor cells were grown directly on glass- or silicon-based electronic sensor chips. Changes in extracellular pH and pO(2), reflecting metabolic activities, and changes in impedance, reflecting morphological properties, were monitored. In this study, colon and breast cancer cells as well as doxorubicin-sensitive and doxorubicin-resistant sarcoma cell lines were exposed to cytochalasin B, chloroacetaldehyde, or doxorubicin. Results show (1) reduction in medium acidification, (2) marked and rapid changes in O(2) consumption, and (3) modulations in impedance correlating with morphological changes observed in the microscope. Drug-resistant cells do not show these changes. Therefore, this microphysiological monitoring is a versatile tool for chemosensitivity testing of tumor cells.
Following simultaneous i.v. administration of a mixture of [4-14C]cyclophosphamide (14C-CP) and [side-chain 3H]CP to rats, a metabolite containing predominantly 3H radioactivity was excreted in the urine. The 3H-labelled urinary metabolite was identified as 2-chloroacetaldehyde. Chloro[3H]acetaldehyde accounted for approx. 3.8% of urinary 3H radioactivity. The importance of chloroacetaldehyde as a toxic metabolite of CP is discussed, particularly in relation to haemorrhagic bladder disease.
Abstract When chloroethanol is given orally to rats, liver GSH is rapidly depleted and S-carboxymethylglutathione is formed. Release of 36 chloride ion from [ 36 Cl]-chloroethanol has been studied in vitro and shown to require stoichiometric amounts of GSH (1 mole) and NAD (2 moles). S-carboxymethyl-glutathione has been identified as the product in vitro . Ethanol inhibits the depletion of GSH in vivo and release of 36 chloride in vitro . Chloroethanol is readily dehydrogenated in vitro by purified yeast and horse liver alcohol dehydrogenases. The route from chloroethanol to S-carboxymethyl-glutathione has been studied in vitro . S-carboxymethyl-glutathione is degraded by kidney homogenate to glycine, glutamic acid and S-carboxymethylcysteine. Subsequent metabolism of the latter compound is discussed. It is suggested that the toxicity of chloroethanol is due to its conversion to chloroacetaldehyde in vivo .
The n.m.r. spectra of protonated α-chloroacetaldehyde and α-chlorobutyraldehyde in strong acid solution show the presence of two isomeric species, one of which can be explained in terms of intramolecular hydrogen bonding between the proton on oxygen and the chlorine atom.
The pathway of 2-chloroethanol degradation in the denitrifying Pseudomonas stutzeri strain JJ was investigated. In cell-free extracts, activities of a phenazine methosulfate (PMS)-dependent chloroethanol dehydrogenase, an NAD-dependent chloroacetaldehyde dehydrogenase, and a chloroacetate dehalogenase were detected. This suggested that the 2-chloroethanol degradation pathway in this denitrifying strain is the same as found in aerobic bacteria that degrade chloroethanol. Activity towards primary alcohols, secondary alcohols, diols, and other chlorinated alcohols could be measured in cell-free extracts with chloroethanol dehydrogenase (CE-DH) activity. PMS and phenazine ethosulfate (PES) were used as primary electron acceptors, but not NAD, NADP or ferricyanide. Cells of strain JJ cultured in a continuous culture under nitrate limitation exhibited chloroethanol dehydrogenase activity that was a 12 times higher than in cells grown in batch culture. However, under chloroethanol-limiting conditions, CE-DH activity was in the same range as in batch culture. Cells grown on ethanol did not exhibit CE-DH activity. Instead, NAD-dependent ethanol dehydrogenase (E-DH) activity and PMS-dependent E-DH activity were detected.
Ifosfamide is a chemotherapeutic agent with a long established history of clinical use that was approved some years ago for use in pancreatic cancer patients (Baxter Product Monograph: IFEX Ifosfamide for injection, [11] ), but serious toxicity-related side effects have precluded its use at conventional doses (2.5-3 g/m 2 /day) [12, 13] . Mid-range doses of ifosfamide (1.8-2 g/m 2 /day) result in less toxicity and partial treatment responses in the range of 60% with rare complete remissions [14] [15] [16] , whereas low dose ifosfamide treatment (≤1.6 g/m 2 /day) results in non-severe toxicity, but is accompanied by, at best, rare, mostly partial treatment responses (≤33%) [17, 18] . Like many chemotherapeutic agents, ifosfamide is a prodrug, i.e., it is not tumor toxic per se, but upon metabolization by cytochrome P450 enzymes (mainly those that are expressed in the liver), it is converted into short-lived tumor toxic metabolites [19] [20] [21] . The short half-life of these metabolites in plasma, however, necessitates relatively high systemic levels of ifosfamide to achieve therapeutic, tumor toxic metabolite levels in the tumor. At the same time, these doses cause debilitating and unacceptable side effects [22] . Moreover, there are a number of different cytochrome P450's, some of which produce metabolites that are neurotoxic due to the chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) catabolite [23] [24] [25] . Cytochrome 2B1 (CYP2B1), the rat isoform of the human cytochrome 2B6 [26] , is particularly efficient at producing mainly only the tumor toxic and not the neurotoxic metabolites [27] .
Materials Ado, AMP, adenosine 5Ј-diphosphate (ADP), and ATP were purchased from Yamasa Shouyu (Japan). 2-Chloro-N 6 -cyclopentyladenosine (CCPA), N 6 -cyclohexyladenosine (CHA), 5Ј-N-ethylcarboxaminoadenosine (NECA), dipyridamole, and reactive blue 2 were obtained from Sigma Chemical (U.S.A.). 2[p-(2-Carboxyethyl)phenethylamino]-5Ј-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine (CGS 21680) and coformycin were from Funakoshi Chemical (Japan) and Nakarai Tesque (Japan), respectively. Theophylline and chloroacetaldehyde were from Wako Chemicals (Japan). Fetal calf serum and inactivated horse serum were from IS Japan (Japan) and Gibco BRL (U.S.A.), respectively. Other chemicals of reagent grade were commercially obtained.
L carnitine (β-hydroxy-γ-trimethyl-amino-butyric acid) is an essential cofactor for the transport of long-chain fatty acids from cytoplasmic compartment into mitochondria, where β-oxidation enzymes are located [20, 21] . Humans cover their carnitine needs from endogenous synthesis, in liver, kidney, brain and testis, and exogenous dietary sources mainly red meat and dairy products [20, 22] . In rats, the final enzyme in carnitine biosynthetic pathway, γ-butyrobetaine hydroxylase, is found primarily in liver [20, 22] . The effect of L carnitine on long-chain fatty acid oxidation in the heart depends on its intracellular concentration which itself dependent on the activity of organic cation/carnitine transporter (OCTN2). Organic cation/carnitine transporter is sodium-dependent and high-affinity carnitine transporter which mediates carnitine transport across the plasma membrane into the cells and serves to maintain carnitine levels in serum by functioning as a reabsorption transporter of carnitine in proximal tubules after glomerular filtration [20, 23, 24] . Several studies reported that CP and IFO therapy is associated with increased secretion of carnitine derivatives in the urine with subsequent secondary deficiency of the molecule [8, 19, [25] [26] [27] [28] [29] . Visarius et al. reported that chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) and thiodiglycolic acid (TDGA), the two major toxic metabolites of oxazaphosphorines, inhibit the oxidation of long-chain fatty acids (carnitine dependent) but not medium chain-fatty acids (carnitine independent) indicating that these compounds either sequester carnitine or inhibit carnitine palmitoyl transferase system [25, 27] . Marthaler et al. was the first to report that IFO therapy is associated with 10-fold increase in urinary carnitine excretion [26] . Using an animal model of carnitine deficiency, recent studies in our laboratory reported, for the first time, that both IFO and CP are associated with severe cardiotoxicity secondary to the increase in urinary losses of carnitine and the decrease in myocardial carnitine content, intramitochondrial CoA-SH and ATP production [8, 19] . In rat kidney tissues, carnitine deficiency and energy starvation were reported to constitute risk factors and should be viewed as a mechanism during CP-induced nephrotoxicity in rats [29] . Recently, it has been demonstrated that carnitine supplementation prevents the development of IFO-induced Fanconi syndrome by increasing intracellular carnitine content and intramitochondrial CoA-SH, with the consequent improvement in ATP production [30] . Recent in vitro study by Ciarimboli et al. has demonstrated, for the first time, that IFO but not CP is a substrate for OCTN2, which provide a cell-specific explanation for IFO-induced fanconi syndrome and offer a new potential target for selective protective interventions in cancer treatment with oxazaphosphorines [31] . Although we have previously reported that CP and IFO induce its organ toxicity by altering carnitine and energy status in mitochondria [8, 19, 30] , no mechanism for these effects has been ascertained. Accordingly, the current study has been initiated to investigate whether oxazaphosphorines therapy alters the expression of OCTN2 gene in cardiac and kidney tissues, and if so, whether these alterations contribute to oxazaphosphorines-induced cardiotoxicity.
1,N6-Ethenoadenine (epsilon A) and 3,N4-ethenocytosine (epsilon C) are formed when electrophilic vinyl chloride (VC) metabolites, chloroethylene oxide (CEO) or chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) react with adenine and cytosine residues in DNA. They were assayed for their miscoding properties in an in vitro system using Escherichia coli DNA polymerase I and synthetic templates prepared by reaction of poly(dA) and poly(dC) with increasing concentrations of CEO or CAA. Following the introduction of etheno groups, an increasing inhibition of DNA synthesis was observed. dGMP was misincorporated on CAA- or CEO-treated poly(dA) templates and dTMP was misincorporated on CAA- or CEO-treated poly(dC) templates, suggesting that epsilon A and epsilon C may miscode. The error rates augmented with the extent of reaction of CEO or CAA with the templates. Base-pairing models are proposed for the epsilon A.G. and epsilon C.T pairs. The potentially miscoding properties of epsilon A and epsilon C may explain why metabolically-activated VC and its reactive metabolites specifically induce base-pair substitution mutations in Salmonella typhimurium. Promutagenic lesions may represent one of the initial steps in VC- or CEO-induced carcinogenesis.
A cross-adaptive response (CAR), defined as a reduction of the effects of an agent by pretreatment with another agent, was demonstrated when E. coli WP2 cells were pretreated with hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) followed by challenging treatment with aldehyde compounds. Pretreatment with a sublethal dose (60 microM) of H2O2 for 30 min made WP2 cells resistant to the killing effects of formaldehyde (FA), and 4 other mutagenic aldehydes: glutaraldehyde, glyoxal, methyl glyoxal and chloroacetaldehyde. CAR was also observed in WP2uvrA (uvrA-) and ZA12 (umuC-) cells, but not in ZA60 (recA-) and CM561 (lexA- (Ind-] cells. A role of recA and lexA in CAR was further suggested by the lack of beta-galactosidase induction in recA- and lexA- cells by H2O2. CAR and beta-galactosidase induction, however, were found to be separate events since CAR was recovered by introducing the recA+ gene into lexA- cells, but no induction of beta-galactosidase by H2O2 was observed in cells with the same gene transfer. These results suggest that H2O2 has the capacity to induce a function which reduces the killing effects of aldehydes, and the function is controlled by the recA gene without involvement of SOS response.
1,2-Dichloroethane (1,2-DCE) is oxidatively converted to a carcinogenic intermediate compound, chloroacetaldehyde by chloroacetaldehyde dehydrogenase (CAldA) during its biodegradation by many bacterial strains, including Xanthobacter autotrophicus and Ancylobacter aquaticus. In this study, a 55kDa NAD-dependent CAldA expressed by chromosomally encoded aldA gene, is reported in an indigenous Ancylobacter aquaticus UV5. A. aquaticus UV5 aldA gene was found to be 99% homologous to the plasmid (pXAU1) encoded aldA gene reported in X. autotrophicus GJ10. Pulse-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and PCR experiments revealed the absence of pXAU1 in A. aquaticus UV5 and that aldA was chromosomal encoded. A 6× His-tag fused CAldA cloned in pET15b, overexpressed and purified on Co-agarose affinity column using AKTA purification system showed Mr of 57,526. CAldA was active optimally at pH9 and 30°C. The Km and vmax for the substrate, acetaldehyde were found to be 115μM and 650mU/mg, respectively. CAldA substrate specificity was found to be low for chloroacetaldehyde, formaldehyde, propionaldehyde, butyraldehyde, benzaldehyde and glutaraldehyde as compared to acetaldehyde. Computational modeling revealed a predicted structure of CAldA consisting of five β-sheets that comprise seven antiparallel β-strands and 11 mix strands. The Molecular Dynamics and Docking studies showed that acetaldehyde bind to CaldA more tightly as compared to chloroacetaldehyde.
There is little doubt that exposure to high levels of VCM as a consequence of occupation can result in an increased incidence of ASL. A review of 20 epidemiological studies involving about 45,000 workers occupationally exposed to VCM showed that neoplasms of the liver showed an increase in incidence in the majority of studies. For brain cancer the association between exposure to VCM and an increased incidence was less clear because of the lower relative risk. Neoplasms of the respiratory tract, digestive system, lymphatic and haemopoietic system, buccal cavity, and pharynx, cardiovascular system and colon/stomach were reported to show an increased incidence in one or more studies, but to show no increase, or in some cases a decrease, in incidence in other studies. In view of the increased incidence of breast neoplasms in rodents exposed to VCM, the studies of Chaizze et al. (1980), who did not confirm these findings in humans, are of importance. The register of ASL cases now contains records of 99 persons with confirmed ASL and occupational exposure to VCM. The average latent period between first exposure to VCM and death from ASL is 21.9 years. The majority of cases occurred in autoclave workers, who are recognized as having been exposed to extremely high levels. Although precise estimates of exposure are not available for the periods of most interest, the pattern of cases roughly suggests that extremely high exposures were necessary for the induction of ASL. For example, ASL cases tended to occur in larger numbers in some plants than in others, a finding that can be explained most easily by differences in exposure patterns. There is an extensive series of animal studies on the carcinogenicity of VCM. Some of these precede the epidemiological studies confirming the association between VCM exposure and ASL in man. ASL and neoplasms of a number of other organs have been induced in laboratory rodents by VCM. Estimation of the exposure levels likely to cause a lifetime risk of ASL of 10(-6) on the basis of these data give extremely low levels (down to 3.9 X 10(-7) ppb) which appear to be unrealistic estimates for man. Part of the reason for this is that laboratory studies have shown that VCM is metabolized in the liver (and elsewhere in the body) to the reactive metabolites chloroethylene oxide and chloroacetaldehyde. The rate of conversion is limited at high levels of exposure giving inaccurate estimates of the slope of the dose-response relationship.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Most of the toxicological effects of TCE require its metabolism [10] . The majority of TCE is metabolized through a cytochrome P450 (CYP) pathway involving the enzyme CYP2E1 into oxidative byproducts, including trichloroacetaldehyde (TCAH), trichloroaceticacid (TCA) and dichloroaceticacid (DCA) [11] . As the metabolic intermediate of TCE, there were numerous in vivo and in vitro studies on TCAH [12] [13] [14] . However, how the downstream metabolites, TCA and DCA, act in the pathological process caused by TCE is still unknown.
Methylene blue is a phenothiazine derivative that is used in a variety of roles in clinical practice that range from a dye used in diagnostic applications to a therapeutic utilized for the treatment of methemoglobinemia. An off-label but common use of methylene blue in the oncology population is for the treatment of ifosfamide neurotoxicity. 1 Approximately, 10% to 40% of patients treated with ifosfamide develop encephalopathy. 2 Although most cases are self-limited and do not require treatment, the condition can be severe or even fatal. 3 Methylene blue is thought to help in cases of ifosfamide neurotoxicity due to its inhibition of monoamine oxidase (MAO). This enzyme is responsible for producing chloroacetaldehyde, the neurotoxic metabolite of ifosfamide. 4 Similar to other MAO inhibitors, a well-known potential toxicity of methylene blue is serotonin syndrome, particularly with concomitant use of other serotonergic drugs. 5 Based on this risk, the US Food and Drug Administration has issued a black box warning for the concomitant use of methylene blue with such agents. Serotonin syndrome is a potentially life-threatening condition. Early recognition and discontinuation of offending agents is essential in its management. We present a unique case of severe serotonin syndrome in a patient receiving methylene blue for the treatment of ifosfamide neurotoxicity. This case highlights the diagnostic challenge of identifying serotonin syndrome in a patient with preexisting encephalopathy. Serotonin syndrome should be suspected in patients with worsening mental status after methylene blue treatment for ifosfamide neurotoxicity, particularly if autonomic dysfunction is present.
2-tert-butylphenolate were prepared by 2-tert-butylphenol.The amidacetal were prepared by 2,6- difluorobenzamide and chloroacetaldehyde dimethyl acetal.The chloroamide were prepared by 2-tert-butylphenolate and amidacetal.The chloroamide is cyclized to obtain etoxazole.The total yield is 40.3% (calculated by 2,6 - difluorobenzamide),or 44.6%( calculated by 2-tert-butylphenol). The content is 95%.
Many different assays have been developed for testing the chemosensitivity of tumor cells in vitro, usually based on a single biochemical or cellular parameter. A multiparametric test system has been developed that accommodates on a single chip numerous sensors for metabolic parameters, deltapH and deltapO2, as well as for morphological changes. The cells grow directly on the chips and can be continuously monitored online up to several days. The effects of various chemotherapeutic drugs on the metabolic profile of several tumor cell lines have been investigated. In colon carcinoma-derived LS174T cells, cytochalasin B markedly increased oxygen consumption while decreasing the rate of extracellular acidification. These effects, which reflect the biochemical action of cytochalasin B, were reversible on drug removal. In contrast, chloroacetaldehyde markedly reduced respiration, which recovered when the drug was removed. Primary breast cancer cells also responded to chloroacetaldehyde with a marked reduction in deltapO2, followed by a reduced rate of acidification. Comparing the metabolism of doxorubicin-sensitive and -resistant mouse sarcoma S180 cells, the rates of acidification and respiration were inhibited by doxorubicin only in the sensitive cells, whereas in the resistant cells oxygen consumption even increased. These examples demonstrate that this chip-based test system provides rapid and important information for assessing chemosensitivity of tumor cells.
L-Tryptophan (Trp) and tryptamine (Trp-NH2) react with chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) to form derivatives with strong fluorescence (Ex=305 nm and Em=455 nm for Trp ; Ex=304 nm and Em=452 nm for Trp-NH2) in a dilute hydrochloric acid solution under optimal conditions. Other biogenic indolylethylamines and phenylethylamines do not form fluorescent derivatives with CAA.
The interactions between hydrated trichloroacetaldehyde and cobalt(II)bovine carbonic anhydrase B have been investigated as a function of pH by means of electronic spectroscopy of FT nmr spectroscopy. The hydrated aldehyde is bound to the metal ion and its apparent affinity constant is pH dependent with a bell-shaped profile. The kinetic parameters of the dissociation process have also been determined.
The invention discloses a method for synthesizing chloroacetaldehyde through catalysis of aqueous solution of aldehyde. In the method, the aqueous solution of aldehyde is taken as a raw material, and the aldehyde is subjected to chlorination by controlling reaction temperature in the presence of a single or mixed catalyst; and after the reaction is finished, the product is subjected to distillation or suction filtration, and high-purity chloroacetaldehyde is obtained. The method has the advantages of high yield and light environmental pollution, and can be applied to preparation of a small amount of chloroacetaldehyde in a laboratory and industrial production.
Publisher Summary This chapter discusses the more recently reported procedures for substitution or modification of cyclic phosphates in various positions of the purine ring. With some exceptions modification of the ribose and cyclic phosphate moieties of cyclic nucleotides eliminates their biological activities. Two general routes for the synthesis of analogs have been pursued. The first involves the formation of the 3', 5' -cyclic phosphate ring from the corresponding nucleoside 5'-monophosphate. Earlier procedures to accomplish this were inefficient and have yielded only a few cyclic nucleotide derivatives. Cyclic AMP (cAMP) N-oxide was prepared by treatment of cAMP with m-chloroperbenzoic acid. Refluxing the specific organic compound in NaOAc-glacial HOAc gave 8-HO-cGMP and selenourea gave the 8-isoselenouronium (HBr)-cGMP that was treated with alkyl halides to yield 8-alkylseleno-cGMP derivatives. With the exception of the 8-NH 2 derivatives the 8-substituted cyclic nucleosides are quite resistant to phosphodiesterase (PDE). Chloroacetaldehyde and cAMP gave 3-p-D-ribofuranosylimidazo[2,1-i] purine cyclic 3', 5'-phosphate. Similar reactions starting with 8-Br-, 8-CH 3 S-, and 8-PhCH 2 S-cAMP led to the corresponding 8-substituted-1, N-ethano-cAMP derivatives. The primary mechanism by which cyclic nucleotides exert their biological effects is probably via the cultivation of cyclic nucleotide-dependent protein kinases. One way to alter the intra-cellular levels of cyclic nucleotides is by supplying derivatives that are potent protein kinase activators, which possess tissue specificity and that are resistant to cyclic nucleotide PDE.
Ifosfamide (IFO), an alkylating antineoplastic agent and a prodrug used in adults and children, 1,2 has a broadspectrum anticancer activity against solid tumors of soft tissue, bone, and lung. 3 One of the major side effects of IFO is the formation of the cytotoxic metabolite, chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), during the IFO metabolism which may induce nephrotoxicity almost in the form of proximal tubular damage and glomerular filtration rate (GFR) reduction. 4 IFO may cause Fanconi syndrome as a result of the renal damage, characterized by the glycosuria, phosphaturia, aminoaciduria, bicarbonaturia, and kaluria. Nanoemulsion (NE) is a dispersion system that consists of oil, water, surfactant and most frequently cosurfactant. 5 The diameter of the resulted dispersed nanodroplet is usually in the range of 20-200 nm. The major advantages of NEs in drug delivery system are their ability to improve the drug bioavailability and ameliorate the drug efficacy which leads to the reduction of the total drug dose and hence may result in eliminating the unfavorable side effects of the drug. [5] [6] [7] Several studies have formulated IFO in nanocarriers including solid-lipid nanoparticle, nanostructured lipid nanoparticles, self-assembled polymeric nanoparticles, span 80 nano-vesicles, and selfmicroemulsifying drug delivery systems. [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] NEs are considered potential carriers for the essential *Corresponding author: Mayson H. Alkhatib, Email: mhalkhatib@kau.edu.sa III-V were inoculated with EAC for 48 hours. Group III (IFO) included EAC-bearing mice treated with IFO at a dose of 60 mg/kg/d (I.P. 0.3 mL/mouse) for three consecutive days. 19 Group IV (SAL) included EACbearing mice treated with 0.3 mL/mouse of blank NE based on SAL oil for three consecutive days. Group V (SAL-IFO) included EAC-bearing mice treated with IFO, loaded in 0.3 mL of blank NE, at a dose of 60 mg/kg/d (I.P. 0.3 mL/mouse).
1,1,1-Trichloroethane (TCA) has been chosen for the study of the reducing versus oxidizing steps of carbon, involved in the degradation, in UV-irradiated TiO2 aqueous suspensions, of chlorinated alkanes containing two C atoms. At wavelengths > 290 nm, TCA disappearance rate was largely increased in the presence of TiO2. The corresponding apparent first-order rate constant was lower by a factor of only ca. 1.2 than that of nitrobenzene under the same conditions. Within experimental accuracy, the rate of release of Cl ions was equivalent to the TCA disappearance rate, which illustrated the dechlorination efficiency of TiO2, photocatalysis. Indeed, monochloroacetic acid and, at very low concentrations, monochloroacetaldehyde were the only chlorinated intermediate products detected. Analyses by HPLC of aldehydes (2,4-DNPH derivatization) and carboxylic acids allowed the quantification of ten intermediate products containing these functionalities. Glycolic acid (HO−CH2−COOH) was the product that reached the highest concentration. From the practical viewpoint, it is important to emphasize that all the organic intermediate products were progressively oxidized. From the fundamental viewpoint, a discussion on the nature and formation pathways of the intermediate products brings evidence of the coexistence of reduction and oxidation steps involving the organic material; detection of cis-butenedioic acid, however at very low concentrations, indicated the existence of coupling radical reactions.
BACKGROUND ::: The ifosfamide metabolite chloroacetaldehyde had been made responsible for side effects only. We found in previous studies a strong cytotoxicity on human MX-1 tumor cells and xenografts in nude mice. Chloroacetaldehyde is supposed to act via alkylation or by inhibition of mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation with decrease of ATP. The aim of this study was to further elucidate chloroacetaldehyde's mode of action. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: MX-1 breast carcinoma cells were measured for ATP-content after exposure to chloroacetaldehyde. Further, the effect of chloroacetaldehyde on DNA-synthesis and its potency of causing strand-breaks or cross-links were investigated by bromodeoxyuridine-incorporation, comet-assay and a DNA interstrand cross-linking-assay. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Chloroacetaldehyde in high concentrations induces a reduction of ATP-levels when anaerobic glycolysis is blocked by oxamate and reduces the bromodeoxyuridine-incorporation to 46.3% after 4 h when used in IC(50) concentrations (7.49 mumol/l). In addition we observed DNA single strand-breaks in MX-1 cells treated with chloroacetaldehyde visible in the Comet assay, but no DNA-cross-linking by comet assay and cross-linking assay. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: In summary, our results show that chloroacetaldehyde influences the oxidative phosphorylation in mitochondria, however, this is observed only in high concentrations and is not of clinical relevance because the tumor cells regenerate ATP by anaerobic glycolysis. Nevertheless, chloroacetaldehyde causes DNA-strand-breaks and strong inhibition of DNA-synthesis.
N-methylamine~ N~N-dimethylamine, 2-aminoethanol, isopropylamine, aniline, N-methylaniline, N,N-dimethylaniline, quinone~ chloroacetaldehyde, cyclohexanol are widely used in various industrial fields (Merck Index 1989). They may therefore contaminate the environment. Their possible embryotoxic and/or teratologic potency has not been published before (GRS 1992)~ except that of aniline (Price et al. 1985, Hardin et al. 1987). This gap could be filled by the investigation presented here. Ferti l ized zebrafish (Brachydanio fetiD) eggs served as a well-recognized test object (Baumann and Sander 2984; Van Leeuwen et al. 1990) to elucidate morphological changes in the fish embryo during development and to discover reduction of the hatching rate induced by the above mentioned xenobiotics. From the results information important for the assessment of health risk are to be expected.
Abstract 8-Phenylmenthol 1 is used as a chiral auxiliary in the Baylis-Hillman reaction using a range of aldehydes as substrate. Best results (70% d. e.) are obtained when the reaction is rapid, as is the case with trichloroacetaldehyde.
Abstract A concise and stereocontrolled synthesis of rosuvastatin calcium has been accomplished, with the key steps including a Keck enantioselective allylation of chloroacetaldehyde with allyltributylstannane to install 5 R -stereocenter and a VO(acac) 2 -catalyzed syn -diastereoselective epoxidation of ( S )-1-chloropent-4-en-2-ol to set the requisite 3 R -chirality.
Thestableintermediates formedinthereactionofcytosine, cytidine andadenosine withchloroacetaldehyde wereisolated. The -CHCH/OH/- bridgebetweentheexoandendonitrogenatomsoftheparenf basewasfoundinthesecompounds bymeansofPMRspectroscopy. Theiracid-induced dehydration resultedinforutionofappropriate ethenoderivatives. Therateconstants ofth intermediate formtion anditsdehydration werefoundtobe38x10 and47X10'4 /min'-/for adenosine, and33x104andlOx104/min1/forcytidine. ThepHrange of4.5- 5.0wasfoundtobe optimmforbothadenosine andcytidine reactions. Thequantitative modification ofthesetwonucleosides in thepresenceofguanosine qy beachievedwithhighselectivity only ata lowpHof3.0- 4.0.N0-methyladenosine andN4-mothylcytidine reactquantitatively withchloroacetaldehyde andthereactionrateis higherthanin thecaseoftheparentnucloosides. Thestructure of thereaction productswasassignedonthebasisofPMRspectroscopy.
Abstract In the Scenedesmus cell multiplication inhibition test, 68 potentially hazardous substances were examined to determine the effect concentrations (EC). The tests were conducted in accordance with the test procedure DIN 38 412, Part 9 (draft standard). The green alga Scenedesmus subspicatus CHODAT was cultivated as the test organism. Twenty-five substances were examined according to the standardized test procedure. The procedure was modified somewhat for the examination of volatile and/or strongly smelling substances. For 21 of the tested substances the concentrations for the 72 h and/or 48 h EBC10 values were in the concentration range 0.0001–2 mg 1−1. Thus, they prove very/highly toxic to the cell multiplication of Scenedesmus subspicatus. When compared with the results of the 21d Daphnia reproduction test, monobromoacetic, monochloroacetic acid, chloroacetaldehyde and chloramine T proved very harmful to green algae.
In this article, we present a liver-kidney co-culture model in a micro fluidic biochip. The liver was modeled using HepG2/C3a and HepaRG cell lines and the kidney using MDCK cell lines. To demonstrate the synergic interaction between both organs, we investigated the effect of ifosfamide, an anticancerous drug. Ifosfamide is a prodrug which is metabolized by the liver to isophosforamide mustard, an active metabolite. This metabolism process also leads to the formation of chloroacetaldehyde, a nephrotoxic metabolite and acrolein a urotoxic one. In the biochips of MDCK cultures, we did not detect any nephrotoxic effects after 72 h of 50 µM ifosfamide exposure. However, in the liver-kidney biochips, the same 72 h exposure leads to a nephrotoxicity illustrated by a reduction of the number of MDCK cells (up to 30% in the HepaRG-MDCK) when compared to untreated co-cultures or treated MDCK monocultures. The reduction of the MDCK cell number was not related to a modification of the cell cycle repartition in ifosfamide treated cases when compared to controls. The ifosfamide biotransformation into 3-dechloroethylifosfamide, an equimolar byproduct of the chloroacetaldehyde production, was detected by mass spectrometry at a rate of apparition of 0.3 ± 0.1 and 1.1 ± 0.3 pg/h/biochips in HepaRG monocultures and HepaRG-MDCK co-cultures respectively. Any metabolite was detected in HepG2/C3a cultures. Furthermore, the ifosfamide treatment in HepaRG-MDCK co-culture system triggered an increase in the intracellular calcium release in MDCK cells on contrary to the treatment on MDCK monocultures. As 3-dechloroethylifosfamide is not toxic, we have tested the effect of equimolar choloroacetaldehyde concentration onto the MDCK cells. At this concentration, we found a quite similar calcium perturbation and MDCK nephrotoxicity via a reduction of 30% of final cell numbers such as in the ifosfamide HepaRG-MDCK co-culture experiments. Our results suggest that ifosfamide nephrotoxicity in a liver-kidney micro fluidic co-culture model using HepaRG-MDCK cells is induced by the metabolism of ifosfamide into chloroacetaldehyde whereas this pathway is not functional in HepG2/C3a-MDCK model. This study demonstrates the interest in the development of systemic organ-organ interactions using micro fluidic biochips. It also illustrated their potential in future predictive toxicity model using in vitro models as alternative methods.
The large-scale application of chlorinated aliphatic hydrocarbons (CAHs) has resulted in many cases of groundwater contamination. Contaminated groundwater can be remediated by pump-and-treat: the groundwater is pumped to the surface and treated. The groundwater can be treated in bioreactors, in which the contaminants are biodegraded. Since extracted groundwater is often anaerobic, it has to be oxygenated in order to allow aerobic biodegradation of the contaminants. However, direct oxygenation of (anaerobic) groundwater may result in two undesired effects: stripping of volatile contaminants and coagulation of iron oxides. The use of a membrane-aerated biofilm reactor (MABR) can solve these problems. At one side of the membrane a gas phase is present for the supply of oxygen. A biofilm is located at the other side of the membrane, where the contaminant is present in the liquid phase. The contaminant diffuses into the biofilm, where biodegradation takes place. The combination of a membrane with a biofilm allows oxygenation and biodegradation without stripping the contaminant and coagulation of iron oxides. The main contaminant studied in this thesis is 1,2 dichloroethane (DCA), a synthetic chemical that is mainly used as a feedstock for the production of vinyl chloride. Known bacterial strains that are able to aerobically degrade DCA, Xanthobacter autotrophicus GJ10 and Ancylobacter autotrophicus AD25, do not have the desired characteristics for treatment of DCA-contaminated groundwater. Both strains require additional organic nutrients, such as vitamins, for optimal growth. Moreover, strain GJ10 has a very low affinity for DCA ( K m value of 570 µM). Two major objectives were proposed at the start of this research. The first objective was to isolate DCA-degrading microorganisms with a high affinity for DCA and without requirements for additional organic nutrients for optimal growth. The second objective was to apply the isolated microorganisms in a MABR that allows aerobic biodegradation of DCA, without direct oxygenation of the contaminated groundwater. In Chapter 2, the isolation and characterization of a bacterial strain, designated Pseudomonas sp. strain DCA1, is described. Strain DCA1 utilizes DCA as the sole carbon and energy source and does not require additional organic nutrients for optimal growth. The maximum specific growth rate of strain DCA1 on DCA is 0.14 h -1 . The affinity of strain DCA1 for DCA is very high, with a K m value below the detection limit of 0.5 µM. Instead of a hydrolytic dehalogenation, as was shown in other DCA utilizers, the first step in DCA degradation in strain DCA1 is an oxidation reaction. Oxygen and NAD(P)H are required for this initial step. Propene was converted to 1,2-epoxypropane by DCA-grown cells, and competitively inhibited DCA degradation. We concluded that a monooxygenase is responsible for the first step in DCA degradation in strain DCA1. Oxidation of DCA probably results in the formation of the unstable intermediate 1,2-dichloroethanol, which spontaneously releases chloride, yielding chloroacetaldehyde. The DCA degradation pathway in strain DCA1 proceeds from chloroacetaldehyde via chloroacetic acid and glycolic acid, which is similar to degradation routes observed in other DCA-utilizing bacteria. Strain DCA1 was applied in a MABR for the removal of DCA from (ground)water (Chapter 3). A hydrophobic membrane was used to create a barrier between the liquid and the gas phase. Inoculation of the MBR with cells of strain DCA1 grown in a continuous culture resulted in the formation of a stable and active DCA-degrading biofilm on the membrane. The maximum DCA removal rate in the MABR was 410 g m -3 h -1 . This maximum removal rate was reached at a DCA concentration of approximately 80 µM. Simulation of the DCA fluxes into the biofilm showed that the MABR performance at lower concentrations was limited by the DCA diffusion rate rather than by kinetic constraints of strain DCA1. To determine the effect of bacterial kinetics on reactor performance, we also simulated the performance of strain GJ10 in our MABR. At 80 µM the simulated DCA flux into a strain GJ10 biofilm is more than 8 times lower. At a concentration of 4 µM (the intervention value for DCA in The Netherlands), the simulated flux into a biofilm of strain GJ10 is less than 5% of the flux generated into a biofilm of strain DCA1. Aerobic biodegradation of DCA present in anoxic water could be achieved by supplying oxygen solely from the gas phase to the biofilm grown on the liquid side of the membrane. Since the degradation of DCA by strain DCA1 is mediated by a monooxygenase, and these enzymes generally have a broad substrate spectrum, strain DCA1 was used to co-metabolically oxidize chlorinated methanes, ethanes, propanes and ethenes (Chapter 4). Chloroacetic acid, an intermediate in the DCA degradation pathway of strain DCA1, was used as a co-substrate since it was readily oxidized by DCA-grown cells of strain DCA1 and did not compete for the monooxygenase. All of the tested compounds except tetrachloroethene were oxidized by cells expressing DCA monooxygenase. Strain DCA1 could not utilize any of these compounds as a growth substrate. Co-metabolic oxidation during growth on DCA was tested with 1,2-dichloropropane, since this compound shows structure analogy to DCA but is recalcitrant to aerobic biodegradation. Although growth on this mixture occurred, 1,2-dichloropropane strongly inhibited growth of strain DCA1. This inhibition was not caused by competition for the monooxygenase. It was shown that the oxidation of 1,2-dichloropropane resulted in the accumulation of 2,3-dichloro-1-propanol and 2-chloroethanol. An alternative to pump-and-treat is in situ bioremediation. This technology is based on microorganisms biodegrading the contaminants in the subsurface. Besides addition of electron donors, electron acceptors and/or nutrients to stimulate the biodegradation ('biostimulation'), also non-indigenous microorganisms can be injected into the subsurface, a process called 'bioaugmentation' (Chapter 5). Bioaugmentation can be applied in case the indigenous microorganisms are: - degrading the contaminant at rates that are too low; - inhibited by the presence of multiple contaminants; - killed as a result of drastic (abiotic) remediation techniques; - not capable to carry out the desired reactions. The latter case seems to be the most promising field for application of bioaugmentation. A good example is the incomplete reduction of tetrachloroethene, which often stalls at cis- 1,2-dichloroethene. Bioaugmentation with members of the Dehalococcoides group has proven its success, resulting in complete reduction of tetrachloroethene to the harmless end product ethene. To efficiently bioaugmentate a contaminated site, the introduced microorganisms have to be distributed in the subsurface and come into close contact with the contaminant(s). Transport of cells in the subsurface is often limited because injected cells are filtered by soil particles, but can be enhanced by using solutions of low ionic strength, surfactants and bacteria with limited adhesive properties. The survival of injected bacteria depends on factors such as competition for electron donors and acceptors, contaminant toxicity and the availability of inorganic nutrients. The use of genetically engineered microorganisms (GMOs) for bioaugmentation has not made much progress over the past decades due to regulatory constraints and public adversity. To justify the cost of bioaugmentation it is important to accurately assess the effect of bioaugmentation on the biodegradation. Molecular techniques have evolved rapidly, allowing the determination of both numbers and types of bacteria present. Future research on bioaugmentation should focus on large-scale field studies and more attention has to be paid to proper control plots and assessment of bioaugmentation efficacy.
In view of the fumigant action of dichlorvos, monoethanolamine was used for its analysis in air, to determine the saturation concentrations, Volhard's titration and colorimetric procedures being followed for the analysis. In addition, the conventional enzymatic method was tested. The results were variable, but the techniques could be used. Efforts to design a bioassay method using adults of Sitophilus oryzae (L.) to determine the concentration in air proved difficult owing to breakdown of dichlorvos to dichloroacetaldehyde and other lower-boiling compounds.
Abstract The reaction of chloroacetaldehyde with denatured DNA produces a fluorescent DNA where both the adenine and cytosine bases are modified. The rate of modification of DNA by chloroacetaldehyde was measured using the absorption spectrum shift. The depolarization and quantum yield of native DNA and denatured DNA were investigated as a function of temperature. The melting points and the renaturation rates of a series of derivative DNA's were investigated. The melting point was decreased by 1.3°C for each base modified per 100 base pairs corresponding to a 2.8 Kcal destabilizing free energy per mismatched base pair. The renaturation rate of the derivative DNA is reduced by a factor 2 when the melting temperature is lowered by 13°C.
Hypothesis / aims of study: Cyclophosphamide (CPO) and ifosfamide (IFO) are commonly used anticancer and immunosuppressive agents. A major limiting factor in the use of CPO and IFO is the resulting uro-toxicity thought to be caused, in part, by reactive oxygen species formation and resulting in ongoing bladder pain, urgency and dysuria. The uro-toxicity of these drugs has been largely attributed to the formation of the metabolite acrolein. However another toxic metabolite chloroacetaldehyde, has been implicated in the neuro-, cardio-and nephro-toxicity of these drugs, but possible uro-toxicity has not been well investigated. These drugs and their metabolites are excreted in the urine and come into contact with the urothelium. The urinary concentration of acrolein or chloroacetaldehyde likely to occur in patients is 100nM or 10uM respectively (1-3). It is well known that the urothelium plays an important role in maintaining normal bladder function, releasing a number of mediators (eg. ATP and acetylcholine) that can influence sensory nerve sensitivity and detrusor muscle contraction. Accordingly, this study aimed to investigate the affects of the CPO and IFO metabolites acrolein and chloroacetaldehyde on human urothelial cell viability and function in vitro.
Study design, materials and methods: Human urothelial cells (RT4 and T24 lines) were treated with acrolein (10nM -100µM) or chloroacetaldehyde (1nM -10µM) for 24 hours. Following treatment, changes in cell viability (resazurin reduction assay) and reactive oxygen species formation (DCFH-DA fluorimetry) were measured. Samples were also prepared for analysis of basal and stimulated ATP, acetylcholine and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) release by incubating cultures in normal (280 mOsm/L) or hypotonic (180 mOsm/L) Krebs solution (which mimics cell stretch) respectively for 15 minutes.
Results: Twenty-four hour treatment with acrolein (10µM and 100µM) or chloroacetaldehyde (1µM and 10µM) significantly decreased cell viability in both RT4 and T24 cells lines (Fig 1) . The decrease in cell viability was accompanied by a significant increase in reactive oxygen species formation after 24 hour acrolein treatment at 100µM in RT4 cells and at 10µM in T24 cells and by 10µM chloroacetaldehyde treatment in both cell lines. ATP, acetylcholine and PGE2 were undetectable in samples from T24 cells treated with 100µM acrolein as cell viability was too low and no other concentration investigated had a significant effect on these mediator levels. However in the RT4 cells treatment with 100µM acrolein caused a 5-fold increase in basal ATP levels (p<0.001), 2.5-fold increase in stimulated ATP levels (p<0.05) and a 60% increase in stimulated acetylcholine levels (p<0.001). PGE2 levels in basal and stimulated samples from RT4 cells were also increased after treatment with 100µM acrolein (7.5-and 4-fold respectively, p<0.001).
In the T24 cell line (but not the RT4 cell line), chloroacetaldehyde (10µM) caused a significant increase in basal and stimulated ATP levels (3.5-fold increase in basal samples and 5-fold increase in stimulated samples, p<0.001) (Fig 2-A) . In the T24 cells only, basal levels of acetylcholine were significantly reduced while stimulated levels were significantly increased after treatment with 10µM chloroacetaldehyde (50% decrease in basal levels p<0.05 and 2.5-fold increase in stimulated levels p<0.01) (Fig 2-B) . In both cell lines, basal PGE2 levels were increased significantly (approximately 2.5-fold increase in both cell lines, p<0.05) with stimulated levels showing a non-significant increase after chloroacetaldehyde treatment (10µM) (Fig 2-C) .
A concise and stereocontrolled synthesis of rosuvastatin calcium has been accomplished, with the key steps including a Keck enantioselective allylation of chloroacetaldehyde with allyltributylstannane to install 5R-stereocenter and a VO(acac) 2 -catalyzed syn-diastereoselective epoxidation of (S)-1-chloropent-4-en-2-ol to set the requisite 3R-chirality.
Organic Phosphorus Compounds. XII. The Hydrolytic Behaviour of O,O-Dimethyl O-(1,2-Dibromo-2,2-dichloroethyl) Phosphate (Naled) ::: ::: ::: ::: The hydrolysis of Naled 2, an organophosphorus pesticide accessible by bromination of the enolphosphate Dichlorvos 1, in unbuffered aqueous solution does not only lead — as hitherto described — to dimethyl phosphate 3 and bromodichloroacetaldehyde 4 (path A), but also via intermediate formation of Desmethylnaled 5 to monomethyl phosphate 6 (path B). Kinetic measurements show that in the temperature range of 20–30°C both reactions proceed with similar velocities, and the primary step 2 5 determines the rate of path B. In comparison to Dichlorvos 1 the hydrolytic stability of Naled 2 has been found to be markedly lower. — The information on the degradation of Naled in unbuffered aqueous solution is completed by studies on the pH-dependence of the hydrolysis and on the alkylation capacity of this pesticide.
Aiming at the problems existing in the standard method for determination of trichloroacetaldehyde in water by gas chromatography(GC),some conditions of determination were optimized.The optimized test conditions are as follows:equilibrium temperature is 40 ℃,equilibrium time is 40 minutes,adding NaCl and making solution saturated,increasing the alkali addition volume,and correcting the concentration error of trichloroacetaldehyde in actual sample which contains trichloromethane as background.In addition,the lowest detection concentration is 0.24 μg/L.The RSD is less than or equal to 2.5%.The recovery rate with standard addition is 89.2% to 100.6%.It is verified by F-test that there is no significant difference between the optimum method and the standard method.The optimum method can be used for determination of trichloroacetaldehyde in water.
In this study, the oxidative abatement of dilute trichloroethylene (TCE) in humid air (RH = 18%) was studied with combined use of a negative DC corona multi-pin-to-plate discharge and Pd/LaMnO3 catalyst downstream of the discharge. For this post-plasma catalytic (PPC) system the catalyst temperature was varied and the outcome on the TCE abatement and by-product distribution was investigated. The poor COx selectivity for the plasma system is attributed to the formation of unwanted polychlorinated by-products such as phosgene, dichloroacetylchloride (DCAC) and trichloroacetaldehyde (TCAD). At an energy density (ED) of 460 J/L, the TCE abatement decreased as follows: PPC-150 °C (96.2%) > PPC-200 °C (91.7%) > PPC-100 °C (89.1%) > NTP (82.3%). When the temperature of Pd/LaMnO3 was increased to 200 °C the formation of DCAC was suppressed while the formation of phosgene was decreased in the order of 50% compared to the plasma alone system. For each PPC experiment, no ozone was detected in the outlet stream which proves that Pd/LaMnO3 is effective for ozone decomposition and substantially enhances the mineralization of TCE compared to the plasma alone system. Finally, XPS and ToF-SIMS studies have been performed after PPC experiments in order to investigate the possible surface modifications of the catalyst in the course of the reaction.
Chloroacetaldehyde and thiodiglycolic acid, two metabolites of ifosfamide, interfere with mitochondrial function and may sequester carnitine. Urinary excretion of carnitine was measured in five patients before and during a continuous infusion of ifosfamide over 5 days at a dose of 2.8–3.2 g/m2 per day. The excretion of free and total carnitine increased from 85 ± 53 to 2697 ± 1393 μmol/day on the 1st day of chemotherapy and then gradually decreased. The average loss of carnitine during a chemotherapy cycle amounted to 8.5 mmol. The formation and excretion of esters of carnitine and metabolites of ifosfamide and/or a decreased renal tubular reabsorption could account for this marked loss, which might lead to symptomatic carnitine deficiency after several chemotherapy cycles.
A codon-optimized 2-deoxyribose-5-phosphate aldolase (DERA) gene was newly synthesized and expressed in Escherichia coli to investigate its biochemical properties and applications in synthesis of statin intermediates. The expressed DERA was purified and characterized using 2-deoxyribose-5-phosphate as the substrate. The specific activity of recombinant DERA was 1.8 U/mg. The optimum pH and temperature for DERA activity were pH 7.0 and 35 °C, respectively. The recombinant DERA was stable at pH 4.0–7.0 and at temperatures below 50 °C. The enzyme activity was inhibited by 1 mM of Ni2+, Ba2+ and Fe2+. The apparent K m and V max values of purified enzyme for 2-deoxyribose-5-phosphate were 0.038 mM and 2.9 μmol min−1 mg−1, for 2-deoxyribose were 0.033 mM and 2.59 μmol min−1 mg−1, respectively, which revealed that the enzyme had similar catalytic efficiency towards phosphorylated and non-phosphorylated substrates. To synthesize statin intermediates, the bioconversion process for production of (3R, 5S)-6-chloro-2,4,6-trideoxyhexose from chloroacetaldehyde and acetaldehyde by the recombinant DERA was developed and a conversion of 94.4 % was achieved. This recombinant DERA could be a potential candidate for application in production of (3R, 5S)-6-chloro-2,4,6-trideoxyhexose.
The 2,3-bis-(2′-iodo-ethoxy)-, 2,3-bis-(2′-bromo-ethoxy)- and 2,3-bis-(2′-diphenylethoxy)-derivatives of 1,4-dioxan and the diethers of 2,3-dichloro-1,4-dioxan with phenol and p-nitrophenol respectively have been synthesised and their properties determined. The preparation of the acetal of ethanediol-1,2 and dichloroacetaldehyde, an isomeride of 2,3-dichloro-1,4-dioxan, is described.
Chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) is a metabolite of the alkylating agent ifosfamide (IFO) and putatively responsible for renal damage following anti-tumor therapy with IFO. Depletion of sulfhydryl (SH) groups has been reported from cell culture, animal and clinical studies. In this work the effect of CAA on human proximal tubule cells in primary culture (hRPTEC) was investigated. Toxicity of CAA was determined by protein content, cell number, LDH release, trypan blue exclusion assay and caspase-3 activity. Free thiols were measured by the method of Ellman. CAA reduced hRPTEC cell number and protein, induced a loss in free intracellular thiols and an increase in necrosis markers. CAA but not acrolein inhibited the cysteine proteases caspase-3, caspase-8 and cathepsin B. Caspase activation by cisplatin was inhibited by CAA. In cells stained with fluorescent dyes targeting lysosomes, CAA induced an increase in lysosomal size and lysosomal leakage. The effects of CAA on cysteine protease activities and thiols could be reproduced in cell lysate. Acidification, which slowed the reaction of CAA with thiol donors, could also attenuate effects of CAA on necrosis markers, thiol depletion and cysteine protease inhibition in living cells. Thus, CAA directly reacts with cellular protein and non-protein thiols, mediating its toxicity on hRPTEC. This effect can be reduced by acidification. Therefore, urinary acidification could be an option to prevent IFO nephropathy in patients.
Abstract 1,1-Dichloroethylene (DCE) requires cytochrome P450-catalyzed bioactivation to electrophilic metabolites (1,1-dichloroethylene oxide, 2-chloroacetyl chloride and 2,2-dichloroacetaldehyde) to exert its cytotoxic effects. In this investigation, we examined the reactions of these metabolites with glutathione by spectroscopic and Chromatographic techniques. In view of the extreme reactivity of 2-chloroacetyl chloride, primary reactions are likely to include alkylation of cytochrome P450, conjugation with GSH to give S-(2-chloroacetyl)-glutathione, or hydrolysis to give 2-chloroacetic acid. Our results showed conjugation of GSH with 1,1-dichloroethylene oxide, through formation of the mono- and di-glutathione adducts, 2-S-glutathionyl acetate and 2-(S-glutathionyl) acetyl glutathione, respectively. The observed equilibrium constant between the hydrate of 2,2-dichloroacetaldehyde and S-(2,2-dichloro-1-hydroxy)ethylglutathione was estimated from 1H-NMR experiments to be 14 ± 2 M−1. Thus, 2,2-dichloroacetaldehyde is unlikely to make a significant contribution to GSH depletion as GSH concentrations above normal physiological levels would be necessary to form significant amounts of S-(2,2-dichloro-1-hydroxy)ethylglutathione. We also compared the formation of the glutathione conjugates in rat and mouse liver microsomes using 14C-DCE. The results demonstrated a species difference; the total metabolite production was 6-fold higher in microsomes from mice, compared with samples from rat. Production of DCE metabolites in hepatic microsomes from acetone-pretreated mice was 3-fold higher than those from untreated mice suggesting a role for P450 2E1 in DCE bioactivation. These results indicate that the epoxide is the major metabolite of DCE that is responsible for GSH depletion, suggesting that it may be involved in the hepatotoxicity evoked by DCE. Furthermore, this metabolite is formed to a greater extent in mouse than in rat liver microsomes and this difference may underlie the enhanced susceptibility found in the former species.
Abstract Chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) is a metabolite of the human carcinogen vinyl chloride. CAA produces several types of DNA adducts including the exocyclic base adducts 3, N 4 -ethenocytosine, 1, N 6 -ethenoadenine, N 2 ,3-ethenoguanine, and 1, N 2 -ethenoguanine. Adducts of CAA with 5-methylcytosine have not yet been characterized. Here we have analyzed the mutational spectra produced by CAA in the supF gene of the pSP189 shuttle vector when present in either an unmethylated or CpG-methylated state. The vectors were replicated in human nucleotide excision repair-deficient XP-A fibroblasts. The mutational spectra obtained with the unmethylated and methylated supF target genes were generally similar with a preponderance of C/G to T/A transitions and C/G to A/T transversions. CAA-induced DNA adducts were mapped along the supF gene by using thermostable thymine DNA glycosylase (TDG) in conjunction with ligation-mediated PCR or by a Taq polymerase stop assay. Prominent CAA-induced TDG-sensitive sites were seen at several CpG positions but were independent of methylation. Methylated CpG sites were sites of CAA-induced mutations but were not the major mutational hotspots. Taq polymerase arrest sites were observed at numerous sequence positions in the supF gene and reflected the rather broad distributions of mutations along the sequence. We conclude that methylated CpG sites are not preferential targets for chloroacetaldehyde-induced mutagenesis.
Cytochrome P-450CAM was shown to be the primary catalyst mediating reductive dehalogenation of polychlorinated ethanes byPseudomonas putida G786. Under anaerobic conditions, the enzyme catalyzed reductive elimination reactionsin vivo with the substrates hexachloroethane, pentachloroethane, and 1,1,1,2-tetrachloroethane; the products were tetrachloroethylene, trichloroethylene, and 1,1-dichloroethylene, respectively.In vivo reaction rates were determined. No reaction was observed with 1,1,2,2-tetrachloroethane or 1,1,1-trichloroethane. Purified cytochrome P-450CAM was used to measure dissociation constants of polychlorinated ethanes for the enzyme active site. Observed rates and dissociation constants were used to predict the course of a reaction with the three substrates simultaneously. Data obtained from experiments withP. putida G786 generally followed the simulated reaction curves. Oxygen suppressed the reductive dechlorination reactions and, in the case of 1,1,1,2-tetrachloroethane, 2,2,2-trichloroacetaldehyde was formed. Significant rates of reductive dechlorination were observed at 5% oxygen suggesting that these reactions could occur under partially aerobic conditions. These studies highlight the potential to use an aerobic bacterium,P. putida G786, under a range of oxygen tensions to reductively dehalogenate mixed wastes which are only degraded at very low rates by obligately anaerobic bacteria.
Bartsch and colleagues (5) then supposed that the presumed intermediary metabolite, chloroethylene oxide, would be really the active alkylating substance because this substance proved to be a strong mutagen as well as VC in the presence of an oxygenating system. Its mutagenic activity in certain sensitive bacteria was superior to the activity of chloroacetaldehyde and chloroacetic acid.
Halo aldehydes or their equivalents have been widely employed in heterocyclic synthesis. Such aldehydes are useful for ring-forming reactions in that they represent units with two adjacent electrophilic sites. However, the simplest representatives, bromo-or chloroacetaldehyde, have been little used because the anhydrous aldehyde is difficult to prepare. J. Org. Chem. 1983,48, 2111-2112 2111 the solid residue, dissolved in MeOH, was filtered and dried in vacuo, followed by HPLC separation (Altex columns with MeOH/H20 (91) as mobile phase), to yield 1.5 mg of 2b and 32 mg of starting compound lb. The high-resolution mass and 'H NMR spectra of 2b were identical in all respects with those of natural 2b.
1,2-Dichloroethane (5 mM) served as the only carbon and energy source for bacterium DE2, a gram-negative, oxidase-positive, motile rod. The specific growth rate mu of strain DE2 on 1,2-dichloroethane was 0.08 h-1. A NAD-dependent 2-chloroacetaldehyde dehydrogenase activity and a 2-chloroacetate halidohydrolase activity were detected in extracts of cells grown on 1,2-dichloroethane.
Abstract High-performance reversed-phase (C 18 ) and anion-exchange chromatography of the title compounds is reported. Stationary phases of both types proved to be very convenient for an efficient analysis of the preparations of these compounds. Anion- exchange columns with quaternary amines (Pharmacia Mono Q columns) and those with tertiary amines (DEAE-Spheron columns) yielded comparable results. Identification of the peaks was performed by means of ultraviolet and fluorescence spectroscopic measurements. Microgram to miligram quantities of the title substances can be separated in less than 20 min using analytical columns. For preparative purposes, up to 30 mg of these compounds can be separated on larger DEAE-Spheron columns (120 x 10 mm I.D.) in a single injection. Analysis of the reaction mixtures [containing oxidized nicotinamide-adenine dinucleotide (NAD) and variable amounts of chloroacetaldehyde under different conditions] enabled us to modify the reaction and separation conditions to increase the yield of 1,N 6 -etheno-NAD.
Traces of damaged bases in DNA can be detected without the use of radioactive chemical agent or radiolabelled DNA substrate by incorporation of radiolabel into DNA after exposure to the chemical. This postlabelling approach to carcinogen adduct analysis is potentially useful for adduct detection in the DNA of humans exposed to carcinogens. We describe here the postlabelling analysis of DNA by chromatography of deoxynucleoside monophosphates. Separation and characterization of modified residues in nucleotide digests of DNA treated in vitro with chloroacetaldehyde is demonstrated.
AIM AND OBJECTIVE ::: Thiazol-2-imine derivatives are interested for their pharmaceutical and biologic activities. A literature survey reveals that there have been no any reports on the synthesis of thiazol-2-imine derivatives without substituents in position C-4 and C-5 via one-pot reaction. Herein we report an efficient one-pot route for synthesis of these compounds in good to high yields. ::: ::: ::: MATERIALS AND METHOD ::: To a stirred mixture of amine (1 mmol) and phenylisothiocyanate (1 mmol) in EtOH (2 ml), KI (0.1 mmol) and DABCO (0.2 mmol) were added under reflux condition. Then α- chloroacetaldehyde (2 mmol) was added drop wise to the reaction mixture. After completion of the reaction, the product was purified over a silica gel short column (EtOAc/n-Hexane, 1:9). ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: One pot reaction of primary amine, phenylisocyanate, and α-chloroacetaldehyde was carried out in the presence of various base and KI in different solvents. It was found that the maximum yield was obtained when the temperature reaches to the boiling point of EtOH. Comparing the reaction results in EtOH, CH3CN, THF, CH2Cl2, and H2O at reflux in the presence of various base, demonstrate that the yield of reaction in EtOH in the presence of DABCO was the most effective. When the reaction runs at the 20 mol% of the DABCO and 10 mol% of the KI, the yield and the time of the reaction were excellent. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: One-pot procedure can be used for the synthesis of thiazol-2-imine derivatives via the reaction of primary amines, α-chloroacetaldehyde, and phenylisothiocyanate in the presence of a catalytic amount of DABCO and potassium iodide in ethanol.
Abstract Swimming pools are disinfected to protect against the risk of microbial disease, however, the formation of disinfection by-products (DBPs) is an unwanted consequence. While many studies have reported the occurrence of commonly investigated DBPs (trihalomethanes and haloacetic acids) in pools, few studies have investigated emerging DBP classes, such as the haloketones or haloacetaldehydes, and the nitrogenous haloacetamides, halonitromethanes, haloacetonitriles and N-nitrosamines. This study investigated the occurrence of sixty four DBPs from the eight aforementioned DBP classes in pools employing different treatment methods. Approximately 70% of the DBPs were detected in at least one of the pools, with most concentrations being equal to or greater than those previously reported. Chloral hydrate (trichloroacetaldehyde) was one of many DBPs detected in all chlorinated waters (202 to 1313 μg/L), and, on a molar basis, was the predominant DBP. Several other DBPs, namely chloroacetic acid, dichloroacetic acid, trichloroacetic acid, dichloroacetamide, dibromoacetamide, dibromochloroacetamide and trichloroacetamide, and many of the N-nitrosamines, were measured at concentrations greater than previously reported: up to 200 to 479 μg/L for the haloacetic acids, 56 to 736 μg/L for the haloacetamides and up to 1093 ng/L for some N-nitrosamines. The higher disinfectant residuals required to be employed in Australian pools, and poor pool management (e.g. of chlorine residual and pH) are likely factors contributing to these relatively high DBP concentrations. Where possible, the cytotoxicity values of the investigated DBPs were evaluated, with chloral hydrate representing over 90% of the total chronic cytotoxicity despite only representing up to 64% of the total molar DBP concentration. This study is the first report of bromodichloroacetaldehyde and bromochloroacetaldehyde in pools and is the first investigation of N-nitrosamines in a brominated pool. Furthermore, this work aids in understanding DBPs in both chlorine and bromine treated pools, the latter being the subject of only limited previous studies.
Bromodifluoroacetaldehyde (5) was prepared from methyl bromodifluoroacetate (4) by reduction with lithium aluminium hydride. 4 was in turn prepared by bromination of chlorotrifluoroethylene (1) and treatment of the resulting 1,2-dibromo-1-chlorotrifluoroethane (2) with fuming H2SO4 and HgO. 5, properly purified, could be polymerized with anionic and cationic initiators to poly[oxy-2-(bromodifluoro)ethylidene] (12). Certain initiators produce partially or entirely amorphous soluble 12 of relatively low molecular weight. Most polymers, however, are insoluble, crystalline, and presumably isotactic. Thermal vacuum degradation of the polymers 12 gave monomer 5 in essentially quantitative yield. The thermal stability of polymers can significantly be improved by endcapping or treating with agents which replace unstable end groups. The ceiling temperature of the polymerization of 5 was determined to be +48°C. 5 was copolymerized with trichloroacetaldehyde with cationic or anionic initiators to copolymers containing predominantly units of 5. 5 could also be copolymerized with phenyl isocyanate to a polymer containing oxycarbamido linkages.
Abstract The microwave spectra of dichloroacetaldehyde oxime ( 35 Cl 2 CHCH NOH) and its two isotopic species ( 37 Cl 35 ClCHCH NOH and 35 Cl 2 CHCH NOD) were observed in the frequency range from 26 500 to 40 000 MHz. Their rotational constants and centrifugal distortion constants were determined: for the normal species in the ground vibrational state, A =3149.619(242) MHz, B =1368.304(13) MHz, C =996.960(5) MHz, and Δ JK =3.479(89) kHz. By referring to the values of the rotational constants and the planar moments ( P bb ) and the r s coordinates of the chlorine and hydroxyl hydrogen atoms, we deduced the conformation of the molecule to be ( E )-isomer with the ac C s symmetry plane. The bond length C–Cl, bond angle ClCC, and dihedral angle ClCCN, were determined to be 1.763(19) A, 110.4(17)°, and 117.9(26)°, respectively. These values were in good agreement with those calculated by the ab initio MO calculations (MP2/6-31G** level). The C–C torsional frequency of ( E )-dichloroacetaldehyde oxime was estimated to be 77(35) cm −1 from the relative intensity measurements.
The identification of chlorinated organic compounds in drinking supplies has resulted in an interest in the metabolism and toxicity of chlorinated aldehydesAnother possible factor in the metabolism of chloroaldehydes is the endogenous tripeptide glutathione. The formation of glutathione conjugates with chloroaldehydes may increase or decrease their rate of reaction with the aldehyde dehydrogenase enzyme. This study found that the rat liver aldehyde dehydrogenase isozymes lost activity with time regardless of storage conditions. In vitro assays of enzyme activity confirmed substrate specificity for the chloroaldehydes and the isozymes. The reaction rate of glutathione depletion by monochloroacetaldehyde was the highest of the aldehydes. The addition of glutathione to the activity assays resulted in a decrease in but few significant changes in the Km values. Glutathione concentration was depleted by aldehydes in solution. Glutathione effected the metabolism of aldehydes by aldehyde dehydrogenase isozymes.
A cyclic structure is demonstrated for the chloroacetals produced from chloroacetaldehyde and polyhydric alcohols. The stretching frequency of the chloromethyl group is not affected by the dioxan and dioxolan rings, or by the number of chlorine atoms in the molecule.
Given that mitochondria have a high propensity to generate oxidative stress [19] , it is surprising how relatively sensitive this organelle is to reactive oxygen species damage. ALDH2, although usually associated with acetaldehyde metabolism, is a key mitochondrial enzyme responsible for most other aldehydes, including lipid aldehydes (e.g., 4-HNE) and the VC metabolite, chloroacetaldehyde [20] [21] [22] . Indeed, in a compartment that is so exquisitely sensitive to damage, ALDH2 serves as a key line of defense against reactive aldehydes. Activation of ALDH2 has been shown to be protective in several models of oxidative stressinduced organ damage, including cardiac ischemia/reperfusion [23] , pulmonary artery hypertension [24] , and hepatic regeneration [25] . Importantly, it has also been demonstrated previously that ALDH activity was decreased in human NASH [26] The purpose of the current study was to test the hypothesis that ALDH2 activation via the allosteric activator, Alda-1, will protect against the interaction between VC exposure and experimental NAFLD in mice.
One of the primary deactivation pathways of CP results from oxidation of Aldo to inactive carboxyphosphamide due to enzyme aldehyde dehydrogenase (AlDH). 8, 9 Elevation of either class 1 or class 3 AlDH isozymes has been implicated in development of resistance to 4-OH CP/Aldo but not PM in certain murine and human tumor cell lines. The reason for high oncotoxic selectivity of CP is unclear and remains to be elucidated. One of the hypotheses suggests that AlDH enzymemediated conversion of Aldo to carboxyphosphamide is less efficient in drug-sensitive tumor cells than normal cells. As a result, Aldo liberates cytotoxic PM preferentially in the tumor cells. [8] [9] [10] [11] Ifosfamide (IFA) (Chart 1), a structural isomer of CP, has been developed as a useful anticancer agent with greater activity than CP in certain experimental and human tumors as well as lack of complete crossresistance with CP-resistant tumor cells. 1, [12] [13] [14] [15] Analogous to CP, IFA requires metabolic activation to its C-4 hydroxylated metabolite that equilibrates with its aldehyde tautomer (aldoifosfamide) and ultimately yields cytotoxic isophosphoramide mustard (IPM). In contrast to CP, IFA suffers substantial deactivation due to oxidative N-dealkylation metabolism on the chloroethyl side chain to yield inactive metabolites, 2-dechloroethyl ifosfamide and 3-dechloroethyl ifosfamide, along with chloroacetaldehyde (Chart 1). It has been suggested that the latter is the cause of the nephrotoxic [16] [17] [18] and neurotoxic 19, 20 side effects of IFA.
On the basis of the above analogy, substituted sulfonylethyl phosphorodiamidates (Scheme 2) might serve as novel prodrugs of phosphoramide mustards (PM, IPM, and tetrakis-PM) with several potential advantages over CP and related analogues. These prodrugs do not depend on the action of hepatic mixed function oxidases for their activation. Potential differences in routes of metabolism between IFA and sulfonyl prodrugs might lead to decreased side-chain N-dealkylation pathway in the latter, thereby minimizing generation of potentially toxic chloroacetaldehyde. In contrast to Aldo, the designed sulfonyl prodrugs are not likely to be accepted as substrates by the enzyme aldehyde dehydrogenase and therefore have the potential to be active against CP-resistant tumors. Design of nonaldehyde prodrugs that would circumvent AlDH-mediated deactivation and release phosphoramide mustards spontaneously without activation has been previously examined in phenylketoethyl phosphorodiamidate (phenylketophosphamide) 10, 34 or perhydrooxazine analogues 35 that liberate cytotoxic species directly, or via enamine intermediates, respectively. In both cases, in vitro and in vivo antitumor activity was achieved; however, significant advantages over CP were not reported, with toxicity observed for phenylketophosphamide. 10 
Abstract Dichlorination of paraldehyde followed by hydration gave white crystals of dichloroacetaldehyde(DCA) hydrate which were treated with concd sulfuric acid at 0 °C to afford a cyclic trimer of DCA as a quite stable precursor of DCA.
Abstract The dose—response curve for mutation induced by alkylating agents is indicated to exhibit a linear component in the region of low doses [1]. In this region, the mutagenic effectiveness per unit dose, determined as the time integral of concentration (dimension mM · h) [2] was found for several alkylating agents to be approximately proportional to the calculated rate of reaction at a certain low nucleophilic strength, n ≈ 2 [3,4]. This proportionality appears, by and large, to be independent of the nature of the alkyl introduced, and for this reason the computed degree of alkylation at n = 2, and at a given tissue dose, may be used tentatively to estimate genetic risk [2]. Comparing the slopes of the dose—response curves (number of mutants per 108 survivors per mM · h) with the rates of reaction at n = 2 of chloroacetaldehyde and chloroethylene oxide, using ethylene oxide and methyl methanesulfonate as standards, the values in Table I are obtained.
A novel 2-deoxyribose-5-phosphate aldolase (LbDERA) was identified from Lactobacillus brevis, with high activity, excellent thermostability and high tolerance against aldehyde substrates. The half-lives of LbDERA incubated in 300 mM acetaldehyde and chloroacetaldehyde were 37.3 and 198 min, respectively, which are 2- and 7-fold higher than those of EcDERA from Escherichia coli. The crystal structure of LbDERA determined at 1.95 A resolution revealed a stable quaternary structure which might account for its excellent aldehyde tolerance. A single mutation, E78K, was introduced to LbDERA through a consensus sequence approach, resulting in significant improvements of both thermostability and aldehyde tolerance. According to the crystal structure of LbDERAE78K, two additional hydrogen bonds and one salt bridge were introduced compared with wild-type LbDERA. As a result of its high substrate tolerance, LbDERAE78K could efficiently catalyze a sequential aldol condensation with 0.7 M chloroacetaldehyde and 1.4 M acetaldehyde, affording a key chiral precursor of statins, (3R,5S)-6-chloro-2,4,6-trideoxyhexapyranoside, with an unprecedented space-time yield of 792.5 g L−1 d−1 and only 2.5 g L−1 of catalyst loading.
A number of bifunctional chemical mutagens induce exocyclic DNA lesions. For example, 2-chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), a metabolite of vinyl chloride, readily reacts with single-stranded DNA to predominantly form etheno lesions. Here, we report on in vivo mutagenesis caused by CAA treatment of DNA in vitro. These experiments used partially duplex phage M13AB28 replicative form DNA in which a part of the lacZ gene sequence was held in single-stranded form to direct reaction with CAA. CAA-treated partial duplex DNA was transfected into Escherichia coli, and the induced base changes were defined by DNA sequencing. These experiments suggested that CAA treatment induced mutations at cytosines, much less efficiently at adenines, but not at guanines or thymines. Among mutations targeted to cytosine, 80% were C-to-T transitions and 20% were C-to-A transversions. Application of a post-labeling method detected dose-dependent formation of ethenoadenine and ethenocytosine in CAA treated DNA. These data indicate that ethenocytosine is a highly efficient mutagen with properties suggestive of a non-instructional DNA lesion in vivo. Paradoxically, ethenoadenines are efficiently bypassed by a mechanism which appears to be largely nonmutagenic.
Abstract Seven genotoxic aldehydes (acrolein, chloroacetaldehyde, crotonaldehyde, formaldehyde, glutardialdehyde, glyoxal, and methylacrolein) have been studied in vitro using the alkaline version of the comet assay (or single cell microgel electrophoresis assay) in freshly isolated rat hepatocytes. Chloroacetaldehyde, glyoxal and methylacrolein treatment resulted in an elevated tail moment (TM), used as indicator for an DNA damaging activity and formation of comet like structures. In addition, this treatment also caused characteristic DNA spot images with small, highly condensed areas within the otherwise circular DNA spots. These were not seen in solvent and N -Methyl- N ′-nitro- N -nitrosoguanidine (MNNG)-treated control cells. Treatment of hepatocytes with acrolein, crotonaldehyde, formaldehyde and glutardialdehyde resulted in an TM which did not differ from those of control values although 86–95% of the cells showed characteristic changes of their DNA spot images. The condensed areas are probably the consequence of the known DNA and protein crosslinking activities of these bifunctional aldehydes. It is suggested that using the alkaline comet assay both TM (or overall comet length) as well as changes in the DNA spot image should be evaluated.
Cyclophosphamide (CPA) and ifosfamide (IFA) are oxazaphosphorine anticancer prodrugs metabolized by two alternative cytochrome P450 (P450) pathways, drug activation by 4-hydroxylation and drug inactivation by N-dechloroethylation, which generates the neurotoxic and nephrotoxic byproduct chloroacetaldehyde. CPA and IFA metabolism catalyzed by P450s 2B1, 2B4, 2B5, and seven site-specific 2B1 mutants was studied in a reconstituted Escherichia coli expression system to identify residues that contribute to the unique activities and substrate specificities of these enzymes. The catalytic efficiency of CPA 4-hydroxylation by rat P450 2B1 was 10- to 35-fold higher than that of rabbit P450 2B4 or 2B5. With IFA, 50% of metabolism proceeded via N-dechloroethylation for 2B1 and 2B4, whereas CPA N-dechloroethylation corresponded to only 3% of total metabolism (2B1) or was absent (2B4, 2B5). Improved catalytic efficiency of CPA and IFA 4-hydroxylation was obtained upon substitution of 2B1 Ile-114 by Val, and replacement of Val-363 by Leu or Ile selectively suppressed CPA N-dechloroethylation 90%. P450 2B1-V367A, containing the Ala replacement found in 2B5, exhibited only 10% of wild-type 2B1 activity for both substrates. Canine P450 2B11, which has Val-114, Leu-363, and Val-367, was therefore predicted to be a regioselective CPA 4-hydroxylase with high catalytic efficiency. Indeed, P450 2B11 was 7- to 8-fold more active as a CPA and IFA 4-hydroxylase than 2B1, exhibited a highly desirable low Km (80 –160 M), and catalyzed no CPA N-dechloroethylation. These findings provide insight into the role of specific P450 2B residues in oxazaphosphorine metabolism and pave the way for gene therapeutic applications using P450 enzymes with improved catalytic activity toward these anticancer prodrug substrates.
Model compounds are used to demonstrate functional group reactivity of dimethyl-2,2-dichlorovinyl phosphate (DDVP, Dichlorvos or Vapona) towards amino compounds, phenols and thiols. Methylation of thiols occurs as a result of a trans- methylation reaction by DDVP. In aqueous media, the dichlorovinyl portion of the DDVP molecule is converted predominantly to dichloroacetaldehyde (DCA), in the absence of added nucleophile. The reactions of DCA with thiols, amino acid, and phenols are reported and mechanisms are suggested. 1,1-Dichloroacetone and methyl dichloroacetate were also used as model compounds to provide a greater insight into the reactivity of the dichloro-moiety of DDVP and DCA.
Abstract ::: Four different methanotrophs expressing soluble methane monooxygenase produced 2,2,2-trichloroacetaldehyde, or chloral hydrate, a controlled substance, during the oxidation of trichloroethylene. Chloral hydrate concentrations decreased in these cultures between 1 h and 24 h of incubation. Chloral hydrate was shown to be biologically transformed to trichloroethanol and trichloroacetic acid by Methylosinus trichosporium OB3b. At elevated pH and temperature, chloral hydrate readily decomposed and chloroform and formic acid were detected as products.
The kinetics of the reactions of Br( 2 P 3/2 ) with selected aldehydes, i.e. ethanal (1), propanal (2), 2-methyl-propanal (3), 2.2-dimethyl-propanal (4) and trichloroacetaldehyde (5) were studied at 298±2 K. Rate constants for overall reactions were measured using the fast flow technique with resonance fluorescence detection of Br. Complementary determinations were carried out by the laser flash photolysis method. The following rate constants were obtained in the kinetic measurements (±2σ): k 1 =(2.1±0.2)x10 12 , k 2 =(4.3±0.4)x10 12 , k 3 =(6.3 ± 1.4)x 10 12 , k 4 =(8.5±0.8)x10 12 , k 5 ≤ 1 x 10 9 , all in cm 3 mol -l s -1 units. The probable mechanism for the reactions of bromine atoms with aliphatic aldehydes has been discussed.
Oxazaphosphorines are alkylating agents used in routine clinical practices for treatment of cancer for many years. They are antitumor prodrugs that require cytochrome P450 bioactivation leading to 4-hydroxy derivatives. In the case of ifosfamide (IFO), the bioactivation produces two toxic metabolites: acrolein, a urotoxic compound, concomitantly generated with the isophosphoramide mustard; and chloroacetaldehyde, a neurotoxic and nephrotoxic compound, arising from the oxidation of the side chains. To improve the therapeutic index of IFO, we have designed preactivated IFO derivatives with the covalent binding of several O- and S-alkyl moieties including polyisoprenoid groups at the C-4 position of the oxazaphosphorine ring to avoid cytochrome bioactivation favoring the release of the active entity and limiting the chloroacetaldehyde release. Thanks to the grafted terpene moieties, some of these new conjugates demonstrated spontaneous self-assembling properties into nanoassemblies when dispersed in water. The cytotoxic activities on a panel of human tumor cell lines of these novel oxazaphosphorines, in bulk form or as nanoassemblies, and the release of 4-hydroxy-IFO from these preactivated IFO analogues in plasma are reported.
Abstract Os(η 2 -CH 2 O)(CO) 2 (PPh 3 ) 2 results from direct reaction of formaldehyde with the zerovalent complex, Os(CO) 2 (PPh 3 ) 3 . The structure of Os(η 2 -CH 2 O)(CO) 2 (PPh 3 ) 2 was determined by X-ray crystallography. The crystals are triclinic, space group P 1 , a 18.739(2), b 11.157(1), c 9.986(1) A, α 116.70(1), β 93.20(1), γ 107.93(1)°, V 1727.69 A 3 , Z = 2, D m 1.55(2), D c 1.57 g cm −3 . Refinement of atomic parameters was by full-matrix least-squares methods, employing anisotropic thermal parameters for all non-hydrogen atoms except for the carbon atoms of the phenyl rings. The formaldehyde hydrogen atoms were located from difference electron density maps, other hydrogens were included in calculated positions. Final residuals were R = 0.047 and R w = 0.061 for 3508 unique observed reflections measured on an automatic diffractometer. The complex itself is monomeric, although interstices in the crystal lattice are occupied by hydrogen-bonded water dimers which fulfil a purely space-filling role. The osmium is bonded to two mutually trans triphenylphosphines, two carbonyls, and the η 5 -formaldehyde, in an arrangement which is best described as distorted octahedral. The geometry of the coordinated formaldehyde is characterised by OsO 2.039(7), OsC 2.186(8) and CO 1.584(11) A. The OsP bonds are equivalent at 2.372(2) and 2.378(2) A but the OsCO bond trans to the formaldehyde carbon 1.931(7) A is longer than that trans to the formaldehyde oxygen 1.907(7) A. Os(η 2 -CH 2 O)(CO) 2 (PPh 3 ) 3 has proved to be a useful synthetic precursor for stable formyl, hydroxymethyl, methoxymethyl, and halomethyl (CH 2 X, X  Cl, Br, I) complexes. The compounds Os(CHO)H(CO) 2 (PPh 3 ) 2 , Os(CH 2 OH)H(CO) 2 (PPh 3 ) 2 , Os(CH 2 OMe)Cl(CO) 2 (PPh 3 ) 2 and Os(CH 2 Cl)Cl(CO) 2 (PPh 3 ) 2 are illustrative of the many compounds which have been characterised. A general synthetic route to neutral formyl osmium complexes, Os(CHO)X(CO) 2 (PPh 3 ) 2 (X = halide or alkyl) has been developed from reaction of the cations [OsX(CO) 3 (PPh 3 ) 2 ] + with BH 4 − . Acetaldehyde also reacts with Os(CO) 2 (PPh 3 ) 3 forming Os(η 1 -C[O]CH 3 )H(CO) 2 (PPh 3 ) 2 . No reaction was observed with benzaldehyde, and trichloroacetaldehyde affords the cation, [OsCl(CO) 2 (PPh 3 ) 3 ] + .
Ifosfamide (IF), a potent chemotherapeutic agent for solid tumors, is known to cause high rates of nephrotoxicity, which is most likely due to the renal production of the metabolite chloroacetaldehyde. Enantioselective oxidation of IF has been shown in the liver but has never been reported in the kidney. Using porcine and human kidney samples, as well as the renal porcine cell line LLCPK-1, we document enantioselective metabolism of IF with prevalent production of the N-dechloroethylifosfamide (DCEIF) metabolites from the (S)-IF enantiomer compared to the amount of N-DCEIF metabolites produced from the (R)-IF enantiomers. Since IF enantiomers appear to be equally effective in chemotherapy, these results suggest that replacing the clinically standard racemic mixture of IF with (R)-IF may decrease renal metabolism of the drug and hence may decrease nephrotoxicity.
Ifosfamide (IFOS) and cyclophosphamide (CPA) are widely used anti-cancer drugs. Both are pro-drugs which must be metabolized before their metabolites cross-link DNA. Use of these drugs, especially high-dose IFOS, is complicated by substantial adverse effects of metabolites not directly involved in DNA-cross-linking including kidney, bladder and CNS toxicities. Recently, a lysine-stabilized form of isophosphoramide mustard (IPM-lysine; ZIO-201), an IFOS-metabolite, was developed. ZIO-201 directly cross-links DNA and is active against human cancer cell lines and in mice with human cancer xenografts. To evaluate nephrotoxicity of ZIO-201 we used an in vitro primary rabbit kidney proximal tubule (RPT) cell culture system, which retains many of the characteristics of renal proximal tubule cells including a polarized morphology, a Na+/glucose cotransport system and a p-aminohippurate transport system, glutathione status, and hormone responses (including a parathyroid hormone sensitive adenylate cyclase). We studied effects of ZIO-201 and other IFOS metabolites on primary RPT cells. IFOS is activated by the cytochrome P450 system producing a mixture of 2- and 3-dechloroethylifosfamide and resulting in formation of chloroacetaldehyde (CAA). Also, metabolism of IFOS by the cytochrome P450 system produces 4-hydroxyifosfamide, ultimately resulting in the production of acrolein (ACR). CAA and ACR are IFOS metabolites implicated in kidney toxicity in humans. Effects of ZIO-201 and CAA on the viability of confluent monolayers of primary rabbit kidney proximal tubule (RPT) cells were tested at 15–100 μM. Viability was determined by neutral red dye uptake by the primary cultures after 8 h incubation. ZIO-201 did not significantly reduce viability of primary RPT cells; the LD50 for CAA was about 40 μM with complete inhibition at 75 μM. Effects of 4-hydroperoxyifosfamide (HIFA), a synthetic prodrug of 4-hydroxyifosfamide and ACR were also studied. Although ACR had an LD50 of 80 μM HIFA did not significantly affect viability. The IFOS metabolite 4-hydroxyifosfamide, was prepared from 4-hydroperoxyifosfamide ([1][1]). At 200 μM, 4-hydroxyifosfamide resulted in extensive cell death after 4 h incubation. These data show that ZIO-201 avoids the kidney toxicity caused by metabolites of pro-drugs like IFOS. Whereas 2 IFOS metabolites, CAA and ACR were cytotoxic to kidney cells, ZIO-201 was not. An explanation for the toxic effects of 200 μM 4-hydroxyifosfamide t might be metabolism to ACR in vitro . ::: ::: [1]: #ref-1
Cyclophosphamide (CPA) and ifosfamide (IFA) are oxazaphosphorine anticancer prodrugs metabolized by two alternative cytochrome P450 (P450) pathways, drug activation by 4-hydroxylation and drug inactivation by N-dechloroethylation, which generates the neurotoxic and nephrotoxic byproduct chloroacetaldehyde. CPA and IFA metabolism catalyzed by P450s 2B1, 2B4, 2B5, and seven site-specific 2B1 mutants was studied in a reconstituted Escherichia coli expression system to identify residues that contribute to the unique activities and substrate specificities of these enzymes. The catalytic efficiency of CPA 4-hydroxylation by rat P450 2B1 was 10-to 35-fold higher than that of rabbit P450 2B4 or 2B5. With IFA, ϳ50% of metabolism proceeded via N-dechloroethylation for 2B1 and 2B4, whereas CPA N-dechloroethylation corresponded to only ϳ3% of total metabolism (2B1) or was absent (2B4, 2B5). Improved catalytic efficiency of CPA and IFA 4-hydroxylation was obtained upon substitution of 2B1 Ile-114 by Val, and replacement of Val-363 by Leu or Ile selectively suppressed CPA N-dechloroethylation Ն90%. P450 2B1-V367A, containing the Ala replacement found in 2B5, exhibited only ϳ10% of wild-type 2B1 activity for both substrates. Canine P450 2B11, which has Val-114, Leu-363, and Val-367, was therefore predicted to be a regioselective CPA 4-hydroxylase with high catalytic efficiency. Indeed, P450 2B11 was 7-to 8-fold more active as a CPA and IFA 4-hydroxylase than 2B1, exhibited a highly desirable low K m (80 -160 M), and catalyzed no CPA N-dechloroethylation. These findings provide insight into the role of specific P450 2B residues in oxazaphosphorine metabolism and pave the way for gene therapeutic applications using P450 enzymes with improved catalytic activity toward these anticancer prodrug substrates.
The oxazaphosphorine cyclophosphamide (CPA) and its structural isomer ifosfamide (IFA) are DNA-alkylating agents commonly used in cancer chemotherapy (Sladek, 1994) . These anticancer agents are administered as prodrugs that are activated by a liver cytochrome P450-catalyzed 4-hydroxylation reaction that yields active, cytotoxic metabolites. Several liver-expressed P450 enzymes catalyze this activation reaction; the phenobarbital-inducible rat P450 enzyme 2B1 (Clarke and Waxman, 1989) and its human counterpart 2B6 (Chang et al., 1993; Huang et al., 2000) show particularly high CPA 4-hydroxylase activity compared with other P450 forms. The primary metabolite, 4-OH-CPA or 4-OH-IFA, equilibrates with the ring-open aldophosphamide and undergoes ␤-elimination to yield the therapeutically active, DNA cross-linking phosphoramide mustard and the byproduct acrolein (4-hydroxylation pathway). CPA and IFA are also subject to an alternative, P450-catalyzed side chain oxidation that generates therapeutically inactive N-dechloroethylated metabolites and the neurotoxic and nephrotoxic byproduct chloroacetaldehyde (CAA; N-dechloroethylation pathway) (Furlanut and Franceschi, 2003) .
Four different methanotrophs expressing soluble methane monooxygenase produced 2,2,2-trichloroacetaldehyde, or chloral hydrate, a controlled substance, during the oxidation of trichloroethylene. Chloral hydrate concentrations decreased in these cultures between 1 h and 24 h of incubation. Chloral hydrate was shown to be biologically transformed to trichloroethanol and trichloroacetic acid by Methylosinus trichosporium OB3b. At elevated pH and temperature, chloral hydrate readily decomposed and chloroform and formic acid were detected as products.
In the course of degrading chlorinated compounds, oxygenases can produce reactive or toxic intermediates (1, 18, 37) . In this context, the products of TCE oxidation were determined by using sMMO purified from Methylosinus trichosporium OB3b (11). TCE epoxide is the major oxygenated intermediate formed, and it rapidly undergoes spontaneous decomposition in aqueous media. A stable sideproduct of TCE oxygenation, 2,2,2-trichloroacetaldehyde, accounts for 6% of the total TCE consumed. This minor product is also known as chloral hydrate due to the preponderance of the hydrated form of the aldehyde in aqueous media (24). Chloral hydrate is a controlled substance. When used in conjunction with alcoholic beverages, it is known as "knock-out drops" or "Mickey Finns" (6). The 50% lethal dose of chloral hydrate in rats is 479 mg per kg of body weight, which is 15 times lower than the 50% lethal dose of TCE (12). Chloral hydrate is a mutagen, and it is known to cause chromosomal damage, or aneuploidy (4, 9, 14, 17, 21, 33) . Thus, proposed bioremediation schemes using methanotrophic bacteria must take into account the formation and fate of this potentially toxic metabolite. Chloral hydrate has been reported to be a TCE oxidation product only for M. trichosporium OB3b (27); its possible metabolism by methanotrophs has not been previously investigated. In the present study, three other methanotrophs were shown to * Corresponding author. produce chloral hydrate. Additionally, the transformation of chloral hydrate via biological and abiotic routes was demonstrated and the products of those reactions were identified.
The triazolylthione (I) reacts with chloroacetaldehyde (II) to give (III) which cyclizes reversibly, forming the tetrahydrotriazolothiazole (IV).
The effects on the conformation of DNA produced by the monofunctional adducts of chloro-(diethylenetriamine)platinum(II) chloride or cis-diamminemonoaquamonochloroplatinum(II) have been investigated by means of the single-strand-specific probe chloroacetaldehyde (CAA). The denatured sites to which CAA was bound and that were induced in DNA by the monofunctional adducts of the platinum complexes were characterized by means of three experimental approaches. These include measurement of the fluorescence of a plasmid fragment treated with CAA, analysis of oligonucleotides treated with CAA and cleaved by piperidine, and termination of duplex transcription on a fragment of plasmid DNA treated with CAA. The results indicate that the denaturational change preferentially occurs in the base pair containing the monoadducted deoxyriboguanosine in the trinucleotide sequence Py-deoxyriboguanosine-Py (Py is a pyrimidine deoxyribonucleoside). It was suggested that this conformational alteration facilitates in DNA the formation of minor bifunctional adducts of cis-diamminedichloroplatinum(II).
Abstract electrochemical detection is shown to be an alternative to UV absorbance or fluorescence detection for the analsis of adenosine and other purine nucleosides and bases by high-performance liquid chromatography. In this capacity, the electrochemical detector is generally more sensitive than UV absorbance detectors and, unlike fluorescence detectors is not limited to adenine-containing compounds which must be derivitized with chloroacetaldehyde to form the fluorescent etheno derivative. Minimum detactable amounts were determined to be (pmoles): adenosine, 0.20; guanosine, 0.13. For the adenine-containing compounds, electrochemical detector sensitivity rivals that of the fluorescence detector. The system described gives excellent separation and quantification of hypoxanthine, adenine, ionisine, guanosine, adenosine and deoxyadenosine. Detector response is linear over a wide range of amount injected. The manner in which the electrochemical detector response (chromatographic peak size) varies in response to changes in applied electrode potential and chromatographic buffer pH, electrolyte concentration and methanol content is described. Preliminary data indicate that the system has the potential of functioning in the analysis of biological materials, after applying the proper clean-up procedures to remove interfering material.
Ifosfamide (ifo) is a commonly used drug in chemotherapy. It is metabolized to acrolein (acro) and chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), which are thought to be responsible for renal side effects. We studied the effects of ifo and cyclophosphamide (cyclo) as well as their metabolites, acro and CAA, on cellular protein content, necrosis, apoptosis and cytosolic calcium concentration using a human proximal tubule cell line. The protein content decreased during acro or CAA administration (15 to 300 micromol/l), but not during ifo or cyclo exposure over a time period of up to 72 h. Mild apoptosis was induced only by high acro (150, 300 micromol/l) and low CAA concentrations (15, 75 micromol/l) and only in a narrow time window (24 h). Necrosis was increased after exposure to acro or CAA at all concentrations. CAA was more potent than acro. Ifo and cyclo did not induce necrosis or apoptosis. Glutathione abolished CAA-induced cell death. Cytosolic calcium concentrations increased after acro or CAA administration and showed an oscillating pattern. Cytosolic Ca(2+) chelation did not prevent necrosis. We conclude that neither ifo nor cyclo induce cell damage, but that their metabolites acro and CAA induce cell death. This cell death occurs mainly by necrosis and not by apoptosis.
In a previous study, we observed that the elimination clearance of 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide (HCY) in patients receiving cyclophosphamide (CY) 60 mg/kg/day by 1-h i.v. infusion for 2 consecutive days decreased from day 1 to day 2 due to an apparent decrease in human aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 (ALDH1) activity. Here, the mechanism for the decrease in ALDH1 activity after CY administration was investigated. In human liver cytosol incubations, HCY inhibited ALDH activity mainly through its degradation product acrolein, whereas carboxyethylphosphoramide mustard inhibited ALDH activity only at supraclinical concentrations. Other CY metabolites evaluated, phosphoramide mustard and chloroacetaldehyde, did not inhibit ALDH. The inhibition of ALDH1 activity by acrolein in incubations with human erythrocyte ALDH1 was competitive with a K i of 0.646 μM. The inhibition was independent of preincubation time and reversible by dialysis. The percentage of inhibition of ALDH1 activity in vivo by acrolein in patients receiving CY was calculated based on the in vitro K i of acrolein, the in vitro K m of HCY, and the in vivo peak blood concentrations of HCY and acrolein. The calculations indicated that the activity of ALDH1 was inhibited by 85, 88, and 91% on days 1, 2, and 3 (24 h after the dose on day 2) of CY administration, respectively. The increase in ALDH1 inhibition with time is consistent with the decrease in HCY elimination clearance and the increase in HCY area under the plasma concentration time curve with time.
Abstract A new method for the measurement of poly(ADP-ribose) is described. Poly(ADP-ribose) was separated from the bulk of cellular RNA and DNA by quantitative adsorption to dihydroxyboryl-Sepharose. The polymer was digested with venom phosphodiesterase and bacterial alkaline phosphatase to yield the unique nucleoside 2′ → 1″ ribosyladenosine from internal residues. This nucleoside was converted by reaction with chloroacetaldehyde to a highly fluorescent 1- N 6 -etheno derivative which was separated from interfering substances by reversed phase high-pressure liquid chromatography and picomole amounts were quantified by fluorescence. Control experiments are presented which demonstrate that the assay is highly specific for poly(ADP-ribose).
Publisher Summary This chapter discusses flavin 1, N 6 -ethenoadenine dinucleotide (ɛFAD). Reaction of flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD), with chloroacetaldehyde, leads to the formation of ɛFAD. This derivative that contains both the 1, N 6 -ethenoadenine (ɛ-adenine) and the isoalloxazine fluorophores promises to be a useful spectral probe to study the interaction between the adenine portion of both oxidized and reduced dinucleotide and FAD-requiring enzymes. The absorption spectrum of ɛFAD in neutral solution is identical to that of FAD over the range 340-550 nm. However, due to the presence of the ɛ-adenine moiety, ɛFAD shows increased absorption in the region from 270 to 300 nm and exhibits a prominent peak at 222 nm. The maxima position (nm) and molar absorptivities, in parentheses, are: 222 (52), 266 (34), 375 (9.3), and 450 (11.3). The ɛFAD contains two fluorescent groups, the ɛ-adenine moiety (excitation at 300 nm, emission at 410 nm) and the isoalloxazine component (excitation at 450 nm, emission at 525 nm). The emission, from both fluorophores of ɛFAD, is markedly reduced compared to the component mononucleotides, ɛadenosine monophosphate (AMP) and flavin mononucleotide (FMN), due to extensive dynamic and static quenching of fluorescence, resulting from the intramolecule interaction between the ɛ-adenine and isoalloxazine moieties. As a result, the value of the apparent quantum yield of the ɛ-adenine moiety is extremely sensitive to the presence of contaminating unquenched ɛ-adenine derivatives.
Ifosfamide-induced nephrotoxicity adversely affects the health and well-being of children with cancer. We have recently shown age-dependent nephrotoxicity induced by ifosfamide, with younger children (<3 years) substantially more vulnerable. The mechanisms leading to this age-related ifosfamide-induced renal damage have not been identified. Underlying this work is the hypothesis that renal ontogeny is involved in the expression and activity of the cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes responsible for IF metabolism to the nephrotoxic chloroacetaldehyde. We evaluated renal CYP3A and 2B22 activity in pigs between the ages of 1 day and adulthood, as well as the metabolism of ifosfamide by renal microsomes to 2- and 3-dechloroethylifosfamide (2-DCEIF and 3-DCEIF, respectively). Kidney CYP3A messenger RNA expression peaked 15 to 60 days (0.7-76 +/- 0.19 CYP3A/actin ratio; P < 0.001). Subsequently, this level decreased to adult values (0.54 - 0.03 CYP3A/actin ratio; P = 0.04). Similarly, we detected an increase in the ifosfamide-metabolism rate between young (18 +/- 2 pmol/mg protein/min) and adult (12.2 +/- 0.17 pmol/mg protein/min) animals (P = 0.002). Ours is the first documentation of ontogeny of renal CYP3A and of renal ifosfamide metabolism. These data suggest that age-dependent ifosfamide nephrotoxicity is, at least in part, due to ontogeny in the production chloroacetaldehyde.
We report a novel, highly sensitive and selective method for the extraction and quantification of acyl CoA esters from plant tissues. The method detects acyl CoA esters with acyl chain lengths from C4 to C20 down to concentrations as low as 6 fmol in extracts. Acyl CoA esters from standard solutions or plant extracts were derived to their fluorescent acyl etheno CoA esters in the presence of chloroacetaldehyde, separated by ion-paired reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography, and detected fluorometrically. This derivitization procedure circumvents the selectivity problems associated with previously published enzymatic methods, and methods that rely on acyl chain or thiol group modification for acyl CoA ester detection. The formation of acyl etheno CoA esters was verified by mass spectrometry, which was also used to identify unknown peaks from chromatograms of plant extracts. Using this method, we report the composition and concentration of the acyl CoA pool during lipid synthesis in maturing Brassica napus seeds and during storage lipid breakdown in 2-day-old Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings. The concentrations measured were in the 3--6 microM range for both tissue types. We also demonstrate the utility of acyl CoA profiling in a transgenic B. napus line that has high levels of lauric acid. To our knowledge, this is the first time that reliable estimates of acyl CoA ester concentrations have been made for higher plants, and the ability to profile these metabolites provides a valuable new tool for the investigation of gene function.
Abstract The present communication presents evidence showing that rat liver degrades 2,2-dichlorovinyl dimethyl phosphate (DDVP or Vapona) by two main enzymatic pathways. The first one produces 2,2 dichlorovinyl monomethyl phosphate (des-CH 3 -DDVP) and it is glutathione- dependent. The second enzymatic system metabolizes DDVP to dimethyl phosphate and dichloroacetaldehyde and it is glutathione-independent. The degradation of des-CH 3 -DDVP to dichloroacetaldehyde and monomethyl- phosphate is also glutathione-independent. The role of reduced-glutathione in the degradation of organophosphorous compounds is discussed.
Combined chlorine is increasingly being used as an alternative disinfectant to free chlorine to maintain a residual in drinking water distribution systems mainly because it would reduce the formation of regulated disinfection byproducts (DBPs) trihalomethanes and haloacetic acids. However, the use of combined chlorine could promote the formation of currently unregulated nitrogenous DBPs (N-DBPs) such as haloacetonitriles and haloacetamides that are found to be more cyto- and genotoxic than regulated DBPs. Monochloramine quickly reacts with chloroacetaldehyde, a DBP formed during primary disinfection with free chlorine, forming and reaching pseudoequilibrium (equilibrium constant K1 = 1.87 × 103 M–1) with the carbinolamine 2-chloro-1-(chloroamino)ethanol. 2-Chloro-1-(chloroamino)ethanol undergoes slow dehydration to form the imine 1-chloro-2-(chloroimino)ethane that decomposes at a faster rate to chloroacetonitrile. 2-Chloro-1-(chloroamino)ethanol is also oxidized by monochloramine to produce the previousl...
Mitoplasticity occurs when mitochondria adapt to tolerate stressors. Previously we hypothesized that a subset of lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCLs) from children with autistic disorder (AD) show mitoplasticity (AD-A), presumably due to previous environmental exposures; another subset of AD LCLs demonstrated normal mitochondrial activity (AD-N). To better understand mitoplasticity in the AD-A LCLs we examined changes in mitochondrial function using the Seahorse XF96 analyzer in AD and Control LCLs after exposure to trichloroacetaldehyde hydrate (TCAH), an in vivo metabolite of the environmental toxicant and common environmental pollutant trichloroethylene. To better understand the role of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in mitoplasticity, TCAH exposure was followed by acute exposure to 2,3-dimethoxy-1,4-napthoquinone (DMNQ), an agent that increases ROS. TCAH exposure by itself resulted in a decline in mitochondrial respiration in all LCL groups. This effect was mitigated when TCAH was followed by acute DMNQ exposure but this varied across LCL groups. DMNQ did not affect AD-N LCLs, while it neutralized the detrimental effect of TCAH in Control LCLs and resulted in a increase in mitochondrial respiration in AD-A LCLs. These data suggest that acute increases in ROS can activate mitochondrial protective pathways and that AD-A LCLs are better able to activate these protective pathways.
An alkaline unwinding assay was used to quantitate the induction of DNA strand breaks (DNA SB) in the livers of rats and mice treated in vivo, in rodent hepatocytes in primary culture, and in CCRF-CEM cells, a human lymphoblastic leukemia cell line, following treatment with tri- (TCA), di- (DCA), and mono- (MCA) chloroacetic acid and their corresponding aldehydes, tri- (chloral hydrate, CH), di- (DCAA) and mono- (CAA) chloroacetaldehyde. None of the chloroacetic acids induced DNA SB in the livers of rats at 4 hr following a single administration of 1–10 mmole/kg. TCA (10 mmole/kg) and DCA (5 and 10 mmole/kg) did produce a small amount of strand breakage in mice (7% at 4 hr) but not at 1 hr. N-nitrosodiethylamine (DENA), an established alkylating agent and a rodent hepatocarcinogen, produced DNA SB in the livers of both species. TCA, DCA, and MCA also failed to induce DNA strand breaks in splenocytes and epithelial cells derived from the stomach and duodenum of mice treated in vivo. None of the three chloroacetaldehydes induced DNA SB in either mouse or rat liver. The continuous exposure of mice to 5 g/L DCA in the drinking water for 7 and 14 days did not induce appreciable hepatic DNA SB (< 10% at 14 days), although peroxisome proliferation, as evidenced by an increased cyanide-insensitive palmitoyl CoA oxi-dase (PCO) activity, was stimulated to 490% (7 days) and 652% (14 days) of control. Under this protocol, DENA (0.1 g/L) produced DNA damage after both 7 days (73% of control) and 14 days (57% of control). Similarly, long-term exposure of rats (30 weeks) to 2 g/L DCA in the drinking water, a level that increased PCO activity to 364% of the control value, exhibited no DNA damage. Both the chloroacetic acids and the chloroacetaldehydes were ineffective in inducing DNA SB in cultured rat and mouse hepatocytes at concentrations below those that yielded cytotoxicity. The chloroacetic acids were also ineffective in the CCRF-CEM cells. However, two of the chloroaldehydes, DCAA and CAA, did induce DNA SB in the CCRF-CEM cells at concentrations that did not decrease the cell viability after 2 hr of treatment. Prior incubation of DCAA and CAA with a rat S9 liver homogenate eliminated much of the DNA damaging activity. These studies provide further evidence that the chloroacetic acids lack genotoxic activity not only in rodent liver, a tissue in that they induce tumors, but in a variety of other roden tissues and cultured cell types. Two of the chloroacetaldehydes, DCAA and CAA, are direct acting DNA damaging agents in CCRF-CEM cells, but not in liver or splenocytes in vivo or in cultured hepatocytes. CH showed no activity in any system investigated. © 1992 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
The chlorinated hydrocarbons perchloroethylene, dichloroethane, monochloroacetic and dichloroacetic acids, in dilute aqueous solutions, are completely mineralized to HCl and CO2 by photoassisted heterogeneous catalysis with an aqueous slurry of near-uv illuminated TiO2. Trichloroacetic acid was dehalogenated at a negligible rate. Rate parameters from the present and our earlier studies indicate that the relative chlorocarbon mineralization rates at the 1 to 50-ppb levels of relevance to water supply contamination appear to be dichloroacetaldehyde ⪢ trichloroethylene > perchloroethylene > dichloroacetic acid ∼ dichloromethane > trichloromethane ∼ (1,2)-dichloroethane ∼ monochloroacetic acid > tetrachloromethane > trichloroacetic acid. The heterogeneously photocatalyzed conversion of monochlorobenzene in dilute (70–400 ppm) aqueous solutions yields (1) ortho- and para-chlorophenol, which may subsequently be dechlorinated to yield aromatic oxygenates (ortho- and para-benzoquinone, and the corresponding hydroquinones), or (2) condensation products such as 4,4′-dichloro-1,1′-biphenyl. No evidence of ring opening was noted. Similar but more complex behavior was noted with a dichlorobenzene.
Disinfection byproducts (DBPs) in drinking water flowing through corroded iron or steel pipes may encounter carbonate green rust (GR(CO32-)), a mixed Fe(II)/Fe(III) hydroxide mineral and potent reductant. This research was performed to investigate the kinetics and pathways of the degradation of selected halogenated DBPs in the presence of GR(CO32-). Trichloronitromethane was rapidly degraded to methylamine via sequential hydrogenolysis followed by nitro-reduction. Haloacetic acids reacted solely via sequential hydrogenolysis. Trichloroacetonitrile, 1,1,1-trichloropropanone, and trichloroacetaldehyde hydrate were transformed via hydrolysis and hydrogenolysis. Chloroform was unreactive over 300 h. The buffer identity affected reductive dehalogenation rates of DBPs, with faster rates in MOPS buffer than in carbonate buffer, the latter being representative of the buffer in drinking water systems. GR(CO32-) was unstable in both buffers and transformed to magnetite within 48 h. Thus, slower reacting compounds (...
1,1-Dichloroethylene (DCE) exposure to mice elicits lung toxicity that selectively targets bronchiolar Clara cells. The toxicity is mediated by DCE metabolites formed via cytochrome P450 metabolism. The primary metabolites formed are DCE epoxide, 2,2-dichloroacetaldehyde, and 2-chloroacetyl chloride. The major metabolite detected is 2-S-glutathionyl acetate [C], a putative conjugate of DCE epoxide with glutathione. In this investigation, studies were undertaken to test the hypothesis that CYP2E1 and CYP2F2 are involved in bioactivation of DCE to the epoxide in murine lung. We have developed a method using liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry (LC/MS) to evaluate the kinetics of the rates of production of conjugate [C] by recombinant CYP2E1 and CYP2F enzymes and lung microsomes. Concentration-dependent formation of conjugate [C] was found in incubations of DCE with recombinant CYP2E1 and CYP2F enzymes and lung microsomes from CD-1, wild-type (mixed 129/Sv and C57BL), and CYP2E1-null mice. Recombinant rat CYP2E1 exhibited greater affinity and catalytic efficiency for DCE metabolism than did recombinant human CYP2E1, mouse CYP2F2, goat CYP2F3 or rat CYP2F4. In the lung microsomal incubations, the rates of conjugate [C] production were higher in CD-1 mice than in either wild-type or CYP2E1-null mice; the level of [C] in CYP2E1-null mice was about 66% of that in wild-type mice. These results demonstrated that LC/MS analysis is a suitable method for detection and quantitation of conjugate [C], and that CYP2E1 and CYP2F2 catalyze the bioactivation of DCE to the epoxide in murine lung. The results also demonstrated that CYP2E1 is the high-affinity enzyme involved in DCE bioactivation.
Previously, a new type II methanotrophic bacterium, Methylocystis sp. M (strain M), was isolated in our laboratory [H. Uchiyama et al., Agric. Bioi. Chem., 53, 2903–2907 (1989)]. In this paper, metabolites resulting from the degradation of trichloroethylene (TCE) by strain M were studied with gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Trichloroacetic acid, dichloroacetic acid, and a small amount of 2,2,2-trichloroethanol were detected in the water-soluble fraction of the reaction mixture. These results suggest that the conversion of TCE to trichloroacetaldehyde via a CI-shift reaction, followed by the formation of trichloroacetic acid and 2,2,2-trichloroethanol, as well as a spontaneous breakdown of TCE oxide, with subsequent formation of dichloroacetic acid, etc., is involved in the TCE degradation pathway of the methanotrophic bacterium.
Renal injury is a common side-effect of the chemotherapeutic agent ifosfamide. Current evidence suggests that the ifosfamide metabolite chloroacetaldehyde may be responsible for this nephrotoxicity. The present study examined the effect of increasing amounts of intrarenally infused chloroacetaldehyde on kidney function, glutathione content and malondialdehyde formation. The ability of the uroprotectant medication sodium 2-mercaptoethanesulfonate (mesna) to prevent chloroacetaldehyde-induced renal injury was also assessed. Intrarenal chloroacetaldehyde infusion caused dose-dependent declines in glomerular filtration rate and p-aminohippuric acid clearance and increases in urine flow rate, sodium, glucose and protein excretion. These abnormalities were associated with progressive kidney glutathione depletion and malondialdehyde accumulation. Mesna infusion did not affect renal function but did cause a significant fall in kidney glutathione content. Simultaneous administration of chloroacetaldehyde and mesna only partially corrected renal functional abnormalities and prevented malondialdehyde accumulation but not glutathione depletion. These results show that the ifosfamide metabolite chloroacetaldehyde causes kidney dysfunction, glutathione depletion and lipid peroxidation in vivo. Mesna provides limited protection against chloroacetaldehyde nephrotoxicity, potentially explaining its inability to completely prevent ifosfamide-related renal injury in clinical practice.
Abstract Mechanisms are outlined for the reactions that contribute to in-situ formation and atmospheric removal of the saturated halogenated aliphatic contaminants methyl bromide, epichlorhydrin, and phosgene. In-situ formation is important only for phosgene and involves the reaction of OH with chloroethenes and other chlorinated hydrocarbons. A ranking of these phosgene precursors is given using data for precursor ambient concentrations and chemical reactivity. The three toxic compounds studied are long-lived in the atmosphere, where removal of phosgene and methyl bromide by chemical reactions is negligibly slow. Epichlorhydrin is removed slowly by reaction with OH, leading to formaldehyde, chloroacetaldehyde, and the chlorinated peroxyacyl nitrate CH2CIC(O)OONO2.
Abstract Cis - and trans -1,1-dichloroethylene bound to the active site of hepatic microsomal cytochrome P-450 with the production of a Type I difference spectrum and stimulated CO-inhibitable hepatic microsomal NADPH oxidation. Incubation of cis - and trans -1,2-dichloroethylene plus hepatic microsomes, NADPH-generating system-EDTA resulted in the production of measurable levels of 2,2-dichloroethanol and dichloroacetaldehyde but not of 2-chloroethanol, chloroacetaldehyde or chloroacetic acid and, also, resulted in decreased levels of hepatic microsomal cytochrome P-450 and heme. In addition, dichloroacetic acid was produced from trans -dichloroethylene under these experimental conditions. The omission of any component of the incubation mixture eliminated the above effects, while the inclusion of SKF-525A, metyrapone or CO: O 2 (80, v/v) diminished these effects. The effects of β-naphthoflavone and phenobarbital pretreatment on the values of K s , ΔA max , K m and V mam for the binding and metabolism of the 1,2-dichloroethylenes are reported. The binding and metabolism of the 1,2-dichloroethylenes and the 1,2-dichloroethylene-mediated inactivation of cytochrome P-450 were enhanced per mg of microsomal protein, but generally not per nmole of cytochrome P-450 by prior induction with β-naphthoflavone or phenobarbital. It is concluded that multiple forms of hepatic microsomal cytochrome P-450 bind and metabolize the 1,2-dichloroethylenes. The role of cytochrome P-450 in the metabolic activation of the dichloroethylenes is considered.
Disinfection by-products (DBPs) are formed when disinfectants (chlorine, ozone, chlorine dioxide, or chloramines) react with naturally occurring organic matter, anthropogenic contaminants, bromide, and iodide during the production of drinking water. Here we review 30 years of research on the occurrence, genotoxicity, and carcinogenicity of 85 DBPs, 11 of which are currently regulated by the U.S., and 74 of which are considered emerging DBPs due to their moderate occurrence levels and/or toxicological properties. These 74 include halonitromethanes, iodo-acids and other unregulated halo-acids, iodo-trihalomethanes (THMs), and other unregulated halomethanes, halofuranones (MX [3-chloro-4-(dichloromethyl)-5-hydroxy-2(5H)-furanone] and brominated MX DBPs), haloamides, haloacetonitriles, tribromopyrrole, aldehydes, and N-nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA) and other nitrosamines. Alternative disinfection practices result in drinking water from which extracted organic material is less mutagenic than extracts of chlorinated water. However, the levels of many emerging DBPs are increased by alternative disinfectants (primarily ozone or chloramines) compared to chlorination, and many emerging DBPs are more genotoxic than some of the regulated DBPs. Our analysis identified three categories of DBPs of particular interest. Category 1 contains eight DBPs with some or all of the toxicologic characteristics of human carcinogens: four regulated (bromodichloromethane, dichloroacetic acid, dibromoacetic acid, and bromate) and four unregulated DBPs (formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, MX, and NDMA). Categories 2 and 3 contain 43 emerging DBPs that are present at moderate levels (sub- to low-μg/L): category 2 contains 29 of these that are genotoxic (including chloral hydrate and chloroacetaldehyde, which are also a rodent carcinogens); category 3 contains the remaining 14 for which little or no toxicological data are available. In general, the brominated DBPs are both more genotoxic and carcinogenic than are chlorinated compounds, and iodinated DBPs were the most genotoxic of all but have not been tested for carcinogenicity. There were toxicological data gaps for even some of the 11 regulated DBPs, as well as for most of the 74 emerging DBPs. A systematic assessment of DBPs for genotoxicity has been performed for ∼60 DBPs for DNA damage in mammalian cells and 16 for mutagenicity in Salmonella. A recent epidemiologic study found that much of the risk for bladder cancer associated with drinking water was associated with three factors: THM levels, showering/bathing/swimming (i.e., dermal/inhalation exposure), and genotype (having the GSTT1-1 gene). This finding, along with mechanistic studies, highlights the emerging importance of dermal/inhalation exposure to the THMs, or possibly other DBPs, and the role of genotype for risk for drinking-water-associated bladder cancer. More than 50% of the total organic halogen (TOX) formed by chlorination and more than 50% of the assimilable organic carbon (AOC) formed by ozonation has not been identified chemically. The potential interactions among the 600 identified DBPs in the complex mixture of drinking water to which we are exposed by various routes is not reflected in any of the toxicology studies of individual DBPs. The categories of DBPs described here, the identified data gaps, and the emerging role of dermal/inhalation exposure provide guidance for drinking water and public health research.
Mitoplasticity occurs when mitochondria adapt to tolerate stressors. Previously we hypothesized that a subset of lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCLs) from children with autistic disorder (AD) show mitoplasticity (AD-A), presumably due to previous environmental exposures; another subset of AD LCLs demonstrated normal mitochondrial activity (AD-N). To better understand mitoplasticity in the AD-A LCLs we examined changes in mitochondrial function using the Seahorse XF96 analyzer in AD and Control LCLs after exposure to trichloroacetaldehyde hydrate (TCAH), an in vivo metabolite of the environmental toxicant and common environmental pollutant trichloroethylene. To better understand the role of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in mitoplasticity, TCAH exposure was followed by acute exposure to 2,3-dimethoxy-1,4-napthoquinone (DMNQ), an agent that increases ROS. TCAH exposure by itself resulted in a decline in mitochondrial respiration in all LCL groups. This effect was mitigated when TCAH was followed by acute DMNQ exposure but this varied across LCL groups. DMNQ did not affect AD-N LCLs, while it neutralized the detrimental effect of TCAH in Control LCLs and resulted in a increase in mitochondrial respiration in AD-A LCLs. These data suggest that acute increases in ROS can activate mitochondrial protective pathways and that AD-A LCLs are better able to activate these protective pathways.
(CYP2E1) and aldehyde dehydrogenase dependent pathways to produce the corresponding alcohol (chloroethanol) and aldehyde (chloroacetaldehyde); indeed, previous studies have suggested that VC oxidation is a bioactivation process (7) . We hypothesize that concentrations of VC that are not overtly hepatotoxic may serve as a factor in a 'multiple hit' paradigm of liver disease.
Cy is a prodrug that is metabolized by cytochrome P450 to its main active metabolite, 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide (4-OH-Cy), which comprises about 90% of the total Cy dose [5] . 4-OH-Cy is subsequently converted to phosphoramide mustard and acrolein, which is nephrotoxic. An alternative pathway of Cy transformation is N-dechloroethylation. Moreover, Cy is partly metabolized to the inactive metabolite 2-dechloroethyl-Cy and to chloroacetaldehyde, which is neurotoxic [6] [7] [8] .
Abstract Freestanding blocks of mesoporous, titania-silica aerogel catalyst were prepared and tested for gas phase photocatalytic oxidation of trichloroethylene (TCE) in a new photoreactor where the reactant gases flow through the aerogel block. The intimate contact between the reactants and catalyst resulted in a higher conversion. TS01 aerogel was prepared by ethanol supercritical drying, and contained nanometer-sized crystalline domains of anatase TiO2 (i.e., Ti O Ti sites) within an amorphous Si O Ti and Si O Si network. The TS02 aerogel prepared by CO2 supercritical drying remained amorphous even after high temperature treatment, and analysis indicated that the Ti O Si is the predominant site on this catalyst. The reaction results indicated that only the TS01 aerogel containing anatase TiO2 was active, but the formation of dichloroacetaldehyde on the amorphous Si O Si sites led to a rapid catalyst deactivation. However, a stable catalyst was obtained after these sites were passivated by ozone pretreatment under ultraviolet (UV) irradiation. The TS01 aerogel catalysts exhibited an average conversion of 30% and a quantum yield of 0.27 at a TCE concentration of 56 ppm, feed flow rate of 40 sccm and UV irradiation of 710 μW cm−2.
The invention relates to a method for preparing praziquantel, which is a one-pot method and comprises the following steps: performing an ammonolysis reaction of chloroacetaldehyde dimethyl acetal and an ammonia aqueous solution to generate aminoacetaldehyde dimethyl acetal; performing a condensation reaction of beta-phenylethylamine and chloroacetyl chloride in an organic solvent in alkaline environment to generate an intermediate 1; performing a condensation reaction of the intermediate 1 and the aminoacetaldehyde dimethyl acetal in an organic solvent to generate an intermediate 2; performing cyclization of the intermediate 2 in the presence of an acidic catalyst to generate an intermediate 3; performing a reaction of the intermediate 3 and cyclohexanecarboxylic acid chloride in an organic solvent in alkaline environment, and performing solvent crystallization to obtain the target product of praziquantel.
Eight structurally related halogenated aliphatic hydrocarbons mono-, di- and trichloroacetaldehyde (the last in the anhydrous and hydrate form), moni-, di- and trichloroethanol and allyl chloride, were tested for their ability to induce gene mutations in prokaryotic and eukaryotic microorganisms. The genetic systems employed were the Salmonella reversion test with strain TA1535 and TA100, with and without metabolic activation, a forward and a back-mutation system in S. coelicolor and two forward mutation systems in A. nidulans. Each compound was tested with the spot and plate incorporation assay techniques. Mono-, di- and trichloroacetaldehyde were mutagenic in all the microorganisms employed; all the halogenated ethanols were positive in A. nidulans, while in S. typhimurium and in S. coelicolor the only active forms were respectively the mono- and dichloroderivatives. Allyl chloride was active in S. typhimurium and S. coelicolor and negative in A. nidulans. The technical approach as well as the complex influence of different factors (toxicity, volatility and stability) on the genetic response of each of the compounds under test did not allow to obtain more than a qualitative relationship between mutagenic potency and chemical structure.
The mutational specificity of three chlorohydroxyfuranones found in chlorinated drinking water, 3-chloro-4-(dichloromethyl)-5-hydroxy-2(5H)-furanone (MX), 3-chloro-4(chloromethyl)-5-hydroxy-2(5H)-furanone (CMCF) and 3,4-dichloro-5-hydroxy-2(5H)-furanone (mucochloric acid, MCA), was examined in Salmonella typhimurium strain TA100. DNA colony-hybridization of TA100 revertants showed that MX and CMCF both induced predominantly G:C-->T:A transversions (87 and 75% of total, respectively) with a 3:1 preference for the second position of the hisG46 (CCC) target codon. By contrast, MCA produced primarily G:C-->A:T transitions (66% of the total) with a 4:1 preference for the second position of the CCC codon. The mutational specificity of MCA is consistent with the idea that chloroacetaldehyde, a degradation product of MCA, is responsible for the observed mutations. The chemical mechanism by which either MX or CMCF induces G:C-->T:A transversions remains unknown.
Trichloroacetaldehyde monohydrate [chloral hydrate (CH)] is a sedative/hypnotic that increases cerebral blood flow (CBF), and its active metabolite 2,2,2-trichloroethanol (TCE) is an agonist for the nonclassical two-pore domain K+ (K2P) channels TREK-1 and TRAAK. We sought to determine whether TCE dilates cerebral arteries in vitro by activating nonclassical K+ channels. TCE dilated pressurized and perfused rat middle cerebral arteries (MCAs) in a manner consistent with activation of nonclassical K+ channels. Dilation to TCE was inhibited by elevated external K+ but not by an inhibitory cocktail (IC) of classical K+ channel blockers. Patch-clamp electrophysiology revealed that, in the presence of the IC, TCE increased whole-cell currents and hyperpolarized the membrane potential of isolated MCA smooth muscle cells. Heating increased TCE-sensitive currents, indicating that the activated channel was thermosensitive. Immunofluorescence in sections of the rat MCA demonstrated that, like TREK-1, TRAAK is expressed in the smooth muscle of cerebral arteries. Isoflurane did not, however, dilate the MCA, suggesting that TREK-1 was not functional. These data indicate that TCE activated a nonclassical K+ channel with the characteristics of TRAAK in rat MCA smooth-muscle cells. Stimulation of K+ channels such as TRAAK in cerebral arteries may therefore explain in part how CH/TCE increases CBF.
A codon-optimized 2-deoxyṟibose-5-phosphate aldolase (DERA) gene from Haemophilus influenzae Rd KW20 was synthesized and expressed in Escherichia coli, and the biochemical properties of its product were investigated. DERA was purified using affinity chromatography and characterized using 2-deoxyribose-5-phosphate as the substrate. Specific activity of the recombinant DERA was 34.1 Umg−1. The pH and temperature optima were 7.5 and 40°C, respectively. Additionally, the recombinant enzyme retained stability up to temperatures below 50°C. Maximal enzyme activity was observed in presence of 300 mM of acetaldehyde. The apparent K m and V max of purified enzyme towards 2-deoxyribose-5-phosphate were 0.14 mM and 70.42 μmol min−1 mg−1 and towards 2-deoxy-D-ribose were 24.77 mM and 1.94 μmol min−1 mg−1, respectively. For synthesis of statin intermediates, the bioconversion process for production of (3R, 5S)-6-chloro-2,4,6-trideoxy-erythro-hexose from chloroacetaldehyde and acetaldehyde using the recombinant DERA was studied and this process took 3 h for maximal conversion. This recombinant DERA could be potentially applied in the production of (3R, 5S)-6-chloro-2,4,6-trideoxy-erythro-hexose.
The 12-base pair (bp) tandem direct repeat sequences (DR2) at the joint region (a sequence) of herpes simplex virus type 1 (strain F) adopt a new type of DNA conformation under the influence of negative supercoiling. The novel conformation is dependent on the number of the DR2 repeats; the 19 mer (228 bp total) and the 14 mer (168 bp) readily form the alternate structure whereas pentamer, trimer, and dimer repeats show somewhat different properties. S1 and P1 nuclease studies reveal that the new conformation has a major structural aberration at its center and conformational periodicities which are not identical on the complementary strands. Also, the effect of salt and pH, the location of reaction with bromo- and chloroacetaldehyde, the type of sequence (direct repeat) involved, and the nature and extent of supercoil-induced relaxations demonstrate that this structure differs from previously recognized conformations including left-handed Z helices, cruciforms, bent DNA, and slipped structures. We propose the existence of a novel conformation, anisomorphic DNA, with different structures on the complementary strands which elicit a structural aberration at the physical center of the tandem sequences. Since the oligopurine X oligopyrimidine sequence may be inherently inflexible, this supercoil-induced structural change and the physical stress on these inserts in recombinant plasmids tend to deform (crack) the DR2 sequences at their centers. Possible roles for anisomorphic DNA in the functions of this segment of intense biological activity are proposed.
A survey of disinfection byproduct (DBP) occurrence in the United States was conducted at 12 drinking water treatment plants. In addition to currently regulated DBPs, more than 50 DBPs that rated a high priority for potential toxicity were studied. These priority DBPs included iodinated trihalomethanes (THMs), other halomethanes, a nonregulated haloacid, haloacetonitriles, haloketones, halonitromethanes, haloaldehydes, halogenated furanones, haloamides, and nonhalogenated carbonyls. The purpose of this study was to obtain quantitative occurrence information for new DBPs (beyond those currently regulated and/or studied) for prioritizing future health effects studies. An effort was made to select plants treating water that was high in total organic carbon and/or bromide to enable the detection of priority DBPs that contained bromine and/or iodine. THMs and haloacetic acids (HAAs) represented the two major classes of halogenated DBPs formed on a weight basis. Haloacetaldehydes represented the third major class formed in many of the waters. In addition to obtaining quantitative occurrence data, important new information was discovered or confirmed at full-scale plants on the formation and control of DBPs with alternative disinfectants to chlorine. Although the use of alternative disinfectants (ozone, chlorine dioxide, and chloramines) minimized the formation of the four regulated THMs, trihalogenated HAAs, and total organic halogen (TOX), several priority DBPs were formed at higher levels with the alternative disinfectants as compared with chlorine. For example, the highest levels of iodinated THMs-which are not part of the four regulated THMs-were found at a plant that used chloramination with no prechlorination. The highest concentration of dichloroacetaldehyde was at a plant that used chloramines and ozone; however, this disinfection scheme reduced the formation of trichloroacetaldehyde. Preozonation was found to increase the formation of trihalonitromethanes. In addition to the chlorinated furanones that have been measured previously, brominated furanones-which have seldom been analyzed-were detected, especially in high-bromide waters. The presence of bromide resulted in a shift to the formation of other bromine-containing DBPs not normally measured (e.g., brominated ketones, acetaldehydes, nitromethanes, acetamides). Collectively, -30 and 39% of the TOX and total organic bromine, respectively, were accounted for (on a median basis) bythe sum of the measured halogenated DBPs. In addition, 28 new, previously unidentified DBPs were detected. These included brominated and iodinated haloacids, a brominated ketone, and chlorinated and iodinated aldehydes.
Addition products of carboxylic acid amides and trichloroacetaldehyde are readily converted into 3-arylsulfanyl-2-acylamino-3-chloroacrylonitriles which react with hydrazine hydrate to afford 3(5)-amino-5(3)-arylsulfanyl-4-acylaminopyrazoles. The presence of an amidine fragment in the latter makes them capable of undergoing cyclocondensations with β-dicarbonyl compounds and ethyl cyanoacetate.
Abstract Degradation of atenolol (ATL) was achieved using combination of UV and chlorine treatment (UV/chlorine). Factors affecting ATL degradation, such as pH, chlorine dosage, common anions and natural organic matter (NOM), were systematically studied. ATL degradation could be described by the pseudo-first-order reaction kinetics. Combination of UV-254 nm and 100 μM of chlorine at pH 7 demonstrated 93.5% removal of 10 μM of ATL within 20 min. Radical scavenging tests indicated that both hydroxyl radicals ( OH) and reactive chlorine species (RCS) participated in ATL degradation by UV/chlorine. The highest degradation rate was achieved at acidic pH. The contribution of RCS towards ATL degradation elevated as pH value increased. ATL degradation rate constant directly correlated with chlorine dosage in the 0–100 μM range. Scavenging effect of the excess chlorine occurred above 200 μM. HCO3− and NOM presence negatively affected ATL degradation, while Br− had a positive effect. Presence of Cl− had no noticeable impact on ATL degradation. Several ATL degradation pathways were proposed based on analysis of intermediate degradation products obtained using LC/MS/MS technique. Five typical disinfection byproducts including trichloromethane, dichloroacetaldehyde, trichloroacetonitrile, trichloroacetaldehyde and dichloroacetonitrile were detected. Although some intermediate products could potentially be more toxic than ATL, they were very likely further oxidized forming products with lower toxicity. In general, we demonstrated that UV/chlorine AOP is an effective approach to purify ATL contaminated water.
Importance of the field: The oxazaphosphorines (cyclophosphamide, ifosfamide and trofosfamide) are widely used in clinical practice for their antitumor and immunomodulatory activities. However, their use is associated with toxicities. The metabolism of oxazaphosphorines involves cytochrome P450 biotransformations, leading to highly reactive metabolites such as acrolein and chloroacetaldehyde responsible for urotoxicity, neurotoxicity and nephrotoxicity. While the mechanisms behind these toxicities remain under investigation, some advances have been made, as exemplified by the use of mesna to limit acrolein related urotoxicity.Areas covered in this review: This review highlights potential strategies for limiting side effects commonly associated with the oxazaphosphorine drugs, through pharmacological or medicinal chemistry-based approaches.What the reader will gain: The readers will gain a comprehensive review of these approaches to treatment in terms of: i) pharmacology: use of antidotes and modification ...
Trichloroacetaldehyde monohydrate [chloral hydrate (CH)] is a sedative/hypnotic that increases cerebral blood flow (CBF), and its active metabolite 2,2,2-trichloroethanol (TCE) is an agonist for the nonclassical two-pore domain K ϩ (K 2P ) channels TREK-1 and TRAAK. We sought to determine whether TCE dilates cerebral arteries in vitro by activating nonclassical K ϩ channels. TCE dilated pressurized and perfused rat middle cerebral arteries (MCAs) in a manner consistent with activation of nonclassical K ϩ channels. Dilation to TCE was inhibited by elevated external K ϩ but not by an inhibitory cocktail (IC) of classical K ϩ channel blockers. Patch-clamp electrophysiology revealed that, in the presence of the IC, TCE increased whole-cell currents and hyperpolarized the membrane potential of isolated MCA smooth muscle cells. Heating increased TCEsensitive currents, indicating that the activated channel was thermosensitive. Immunofluorescence in sections of the rat MCA demonstrated that, like TREK-1, TRAAK is expressed in the smooth muscle of cerebral arteries. Isoflurane did not, however, dilate the MCA, suggesting that TREK-1 was not functional. These data indicate that TCE activated a nonclassical K ϩ channel with the characteristics of TRAAK in rat MCA smooth-muscle cells. Stimulation of K ϩ channels such as TRAAK in cerebral arteries may therefore explain in part how CH/TCE increases CBF.
5-Amino-1,2,3-thiadiazoles can be composed through a series of reactions of diethyl carboxylate, hydrazine hydrate and chloroacetaldehyde. The synthetic conditions of each step are optimalized—the 4 step method of intermediate 5-chloro-1,2,3-thiadiazole is shortened to a 3 step method, and steam distillation is improved. The purity reached 99% (by GC). The product 5-amino-1,2,3-thiadiazoles can be obtained from chloroform∶ethyl alcohol (V/V)= 4∶1, mp:138~139℃, the overyield is about 40%.
In this paper, 2,5dihydroxy1,4disulfodine was synthesized by chloroacetaldehyde reacting with NaSH , cyanacetic acid and malononierile to obtain intermediates of 2amino thiophenes. After a while, the four kinds of thiophene azo dyes were obtained by diazotizing and coupling. The construction of intermediates and products were determined by 1HNMR and IR, and discussed about the parameters of affecting reaction. 
The incidence of central nervous system (CNS) recurrence in patients with lymphoma is about 5%. Nevertheless, this complication is very serious because it is almost always fatal. Its incidence is not sufficiently high to warrant the use of CNS prophylaxis in all patients. The identification of subgroups for whom CNS prophylaxis may be of benefit is therefore important and the age-adjusted international prognostic index (aa-IPI) may be useful in this respect. Ifosfamide (IFO) is a widely used antitumor agent, requiring activation to isophosphoramide mustard (IPM) for DNA alkylation. IFO anabolism occurs through the hepatic microsomal cytochrome P450 system. As with the majority of antineoplastic agents, IFO has toxic side-effects. These include neurotoxicity due to the chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) catabolite. However, the incidence of neurotoxicity is low when IFO is administered as a continuous intravenous infusion. Both inactive IFO and active IPM cross the blood-brain barrier, making IFO treatment effective in the prevention of CNS metastasis in lymphoma patients at high risk of recurrence. The benefit/risk ratio for such patients should evaluated.
This work illustrates the capabilities of two advanced analytical methods, Automated Thermal Desorption/Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry, (ATD/GC/MS) and Gas Chromatography, Pulse Discharge Helium Ionization Detector, (GC/PDHID) for a better understanding of the photocatalytic degradation of organic compounds in air at ppbv levels. For this purpose two compounds, viz. dichlorvos and 2-propanol were chosen and the influence of relative humidity (RH%) on the oxidation efficiency was investigated. According to the RH levels, different mechanisms of degradation as well as rate of mineralization were proposed. For example at 40% RH, the main reaction intermediates coming from dichlorvos degradation was dichloroacetaldehyde while traces of phosgene were observed. In contrast, at 0% RH, trichloroacetaldehyde was found to be the main intermediate and a higher amount of phosgene was observed. When only the conversion rate was followed, it was impossible to assess the photocatalytic efficiency of the air cleani...
A theory is developed to predict the energy levels and transition intensities of the A proton in an AX-type high-resolution spectrum when a strong radiofrequency field is applied near the X proton resonance. The results are expressed in a graphical form that clearly illustrates the two possible methods of investigating the decoupled A resonance pattern, the `field sweep' and the `frequency sweep' methods. Experimental results for dichloroacetaldehyde show close agreement with these predictions for both methods of investigation. Instrumentation based on a suggestion of Primas (1961) has been used to maintain a very high degree of stability in the electromagnet field during the `frequency sweep' experiments.
The incidence of central nervous system (CNS) recurrence in patients with lymphoma is about 5%. Nevertheless, this complication is very serious because it is almost always fatal. Its incidence is not sufficiently high to warrant the use of CNS prophylaxis in all patients. The identification of subgroups for whom CNS prophylaxis may be of benefit is therefore important and the age-adjusted international prognostic index (aa-IPI) may be useful in this respect. Ifosfamide (IFO) is a widely used antitumor agent, requiring activation to isophosphoramide mustard (IPM) for DNA alkylation. IFO anabolism occurs through the hepatic microsomal cytochrome P450 system. As with the majority of antineoplastic agents, IFO has toxic side-effects. These include neurotoxicity due to the chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) catabolite. However, the incidence of neurotoxicity is low when IFO is administered as a continuous intravenous infusion. Both inactive IFO and active IPM cross the blood-brain barrier, making IFO treatment effective in the prevention of CNS metastasis in lymphoma patients at high risk of recurrence. The benefit/risk ratio for such patients should evaluated.
BACKGROUND ::: The autoinducible metabolic transformation of the anticancer agent ifosfamide involves activation through 4-hydroxyifosfamide to the ultimate cytotoxic ifosforamide mustard and deactivation to 2- and 3-dechloroethylifosfamide with concomitant release of the neurotoxic chloroacetaldehyde. Activation is mediated by cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 and deactivation by CYP3A4 and CYP2B6. The aim of this study was to investigate modulation of the CYP-mediated metabolism of ifosfamide with ketoconazole, a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, and rifampin (INN, rifampicin), an inducer of CYP3A4/CYP2B6. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: In a double-randomized, 2-way crossover study a total of 16 patients received ifosfamide 3 g/m(2) per 24 hours intravenously, either alone or in combination with 200 mg ketoconazole twice daily (1 day before treatment and 3 days of concomitant administration) or 300 mg rifampin twice daily (3 days before treatment and 3 days of concomitant administration). Plasma pharmacokinetics and urinary excretion of ifosfamide, 2- and 3-dechloroethylifosfamide, and 4-hydroxyifosfamide were assessed in both courses. Data analysis was performed with a population pharmacokinetic model with a description of autoinduction of ifosfamide. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Rifampin increased the clearance of ifosfamide at the start of therapy at 102%. The fraction of ifosfamide metabolized to the dechloroethylated metabolites was increased, whereas exposure to the metabolites was decreased as a result of increased elimination. The fraction metabolized and the exposure to 4-hydroxyifosfamide were not significantly influenced. Ketoconazole did not affect the fraction metabolized or the exposure to the dechloroethylated metabolites, whereas both parameters were reduced with 4-hydroxyifosfamide. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: Coadministration of ifosfamide with ketoconazole or rifampin did not produce changes in the pharmacokinetics of the parent or metabolites that may result in an increased benefit of ifosfamide therapy.
Abstract Brain edema caused by subacute poisoning with 1,2-dichloroethane (1,2-DCE) has gained much attention during recent years, but its underlying mechanism is poorly understood. As an intermediate metabolite of 1,2-DCE in vivo, 2-chloroethanol (2-CE) can be transformed into chloroacetaldehyde and reactive oxygen species (ROS) through cytochrome P450 2E1 (CYP2E1) mediated metabolism. In previous studies, it was found that CYP2E1 expression is enhanced in the brain of mice treated with 1,2-DCE. This study was designed to verify the roles of CYP2E1 overexpression in 2-CE induced cytotoxicity in rat astrocytes, and the contribution of specific signaling molecules to the upregulation of CYP2E1 expression caused by 2-CE. The results of this study demonstrate that treatment with 2-CE can enhance CYP2E1 protein and mRNA levels, cause an increase in ROS and MDA levels, and higher percentages of apoptotic cells in rat astrocytes. Pretreatment with either diallyl sulfide or vitamin C, the inhibitor of CYP2E1 or scavenger of ROS, respectively, can suppress the levels of CYP2E1 expression, ROS and MDA, ameliorate cell apoptosis, and attenuate phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) in these cells. Additionally, pretreatment with the inhibitor of either ERK1/2 or transcriptional factor specificity protein 1 (SP1) can suppress the CYP2E1 expression, and alleviate the oxidative damage caused to these cells. In conclusion, our findings demonstrate that CYP2E1 overexpression plays a crucial role in 2-CE induced oxidative damage of rat astrocytes, and that CYP2E1 expression is upregulated partially through the activation of the ERK1/2 and SP1 signaling pathways by ROS generated during CYP2E1-mediated 2-CE metabolism. This study provides novel information that can be used in elucidating the mechanism by which 1,2-DCE induces brain edema.
Abstract We describe mild and selective iodination of various 8-substituted imidazo[1,2-c]pyrimidine-5(6H)-ones (ethenocytosines). Starting ethenocytosines were obtained by cyclization of 5-halogenocytosines with chloroacetaldehyde or by subsequent Suzuki–Miyaura cross-coupling between 8-iodoimidazo[1,2-c]pyrimidine-5(6H)-one 1d and corresponding arylboronic acids. When imidazo[1,2-c]pyrimidine-5(6H)-one or 8-iodoimidazo[1,2-c]pyrimidine-5(6H)-one 1d was iodinated by N-iodosuccinimide (NIS) in DMF, pure 3,8-diiododerivative 2d was obtained. Under basic or acidic conditions, this molecule is subject to rearrangement into 2,8-diododerivative 3d, which can be subsequently iodinated to 2,3,8-triododerivative 4d. Since the positions of iodine atoms on the imidazole ring could not be determined convincingly from NMR spectra only, X-ray analysis of 2d was carried out with the aim of confirming the structure undoubtedly. The same sequence of reactions was applied to another eight ethenocytosines, providing excellent regioselectivity, easy rearrangement and high yields of iodinated products. All ethenocytosines were properly characterized by 1H, 13C and 15N NMR spectroscopy.
We have studied the distortions induced in double-stranded oligonucleotides by covalently bound acetylaminofluorene residues and by apurinic sites. Within the acetylaminofluorene-modified oligonucleotide three base-pairs are unpaired as detected by the chemical probes chloroacetaldehyde and osmium tetroxide. These two probes reveal that the bases adjacent to the apurinic site are paired. In both the modified double-stranded oligonucleotides, the backbone on the 5' side of the modification is more reactive with 1,10-phenanthroline copper than the backbone on the 3' side. On polyacrylamide gels, the ligated multimers of acetylaminofluorene or apurinic site-modified oligonucleotides migrate slower than the multimers of the unmodified oligonucleotides. It is suggested that the acetylaminofluorene-modified guanine residues and the apurinic sites behave more as hinge joints than as the centres of directed bends.
Chemical modification of Escherichia coli tRNAfMet with 1 M chloroacetaldehyde, pH 5.5-6.0 at 25 degrees C, has been found to result in alteration of six cytidine and five adenosine residues in the molecule. The modified cytidine residues are the same as those previously found to be reactive with sodium bisulfite at pH 6.0. The accessible adenosine residues are A36 in the anticodon, A58 in the T psi C loop, and A73, A74, and A77 in the 3; terminal sequence. No modification of adenosine residues in the dihydrouridine or variable loops or of adenosine residues on the 3' side of the anticodon loop could be detected. Treatment of fMet-tRNAfMet with chloracetaldehyde gave the same pattern of midofication as was observed with deacylated tRNAfMet. Chemical modification of E. coli tRNAfMet with 2 sodium bisulfite, pH 7.0 at 25 degrees C, resulted in selective modification of exposed uridine residues in the tRNA. Only three sites were found to be reactive: U18 in the dihydrouridine loop, U37 in the anticodon, and U48 in the variable loop. The overall pattern of chemical modification of tRNAfMet is very similar to that found by others for yeast tRNAPhe, supporting the idea that many of the tertiary interactions in the two tRNAs are the same. The adenosine residue at position 58 in the center of the T psi C loop of the initiator tRNA shows unusual reactivity, however, being modified by chloroacetaldehyde at the same rate as the 3' terminal adenosine residue. This result is in sharp contrast to the uniform resistance of nucleotides in the T psi C loop of yeast tRNAPhe to chemical modification.
Abstract Using published data, the carcinogenic potency (TD 50 ) in rodents of a series of monofunctional alkylating agents, bifunctional antitumor drugs and the vinyl chloride (VC) metabolites chloroethylene oxide (CEO) and chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) was compared to their nucleophilic selectivity (Swain and Scott's constant s or initial ratio of 7-/ O 6 -alkylguanine in DNA). A positive correlation between the log of TD 50 estimates and the s values for a series of 14, mostly monofunctional, alkylating agents was observed. This linear relationship also included 2 bifunctional chloroethylnitrosoureas, although their carcinogenic potency was compared to their initial 7-/ O 6 -alkylguanine ratio rather than their s values (n = 16, r = 0.91, p 50 values. The possible molecular mechanisms involved in tumor induction by these agents are discussed on the basis of these findings. Comparison of the estimated TD 50 for CEO, CAA and VC in rodents confirms that CEO is the ultimate carcinogenic metabolite of VC and suggests that only a very small proportion of metabolically generated CEO is available for DNA alkylation in vivo.
Summary The reaction of chloroacetaldehyde with adenosine and cytidine produces a fluorescent product in each case. These products are easily distinguishable spectroscopically by their fluorescence emission maxima. Since the reaction is carried out in aqueous media under mild conditions of pH and temperature, it should prove extremely useful in nucleic acid chemistry. For example, reaction occurs between chloroacetaldehyde and E. coli tRNA, and the reaction can be followed by monitoring the increase in the fluorescence emission. Fluorescence lifetimes observed for the adenosine and cytidine products are close to 20 and 7 nsec, respectively.
The Mannich reaction is a synthetically useful method for the construction of nitrogen containing molecules. Organocatalysts have been successfully applied to the Mannich reaction. Our group has been engaged in research on the organocatalyst mediated Mannich reaction since the early days of its development in 2002. We have developed a proline mediated three component Mannich reaction of aldehyde, ketone and p anisidine under the high pressure induced by water freezing. Proline was found to effectively promote the cross Mannich reaction of two different aldehydes to afford the Mannich product with syn selectivity and excellent enantioselectivity, conditions successfully employed as a key reaction for the stereoselective synthesis of the N terminal amino acid moiety of Nikkomycin B and Bx. A tri uoromethyl substituted diarylprolinol silyl ether is an effective organocatalyst of the Mannich reaction with acetaldehyde as nucleophile. It is also effective in the desulfonylative Mannich reaction of aliphatic aldehyde, α chloroacetaldehyde and α keto aldehyde which are employed as a precursor of the imine, affording the desired Mannich products with anti selectivity and excellent enantioselectivity. As the obtained Mannich products are useful chiral building blocks which can be prepared by this simple procedure, the present methods are important for the synthesis of nitrogen containing molecules.
We have developed several versions of the asymmetric Mannich reaction catalyzed by organocatalyst. First, we applied the high pressure induced by water freezing to the proline mediated three component Mannich reaction of aldehyde, ketone and p anisidine to provide the product in good yield with excellent enantioselectivity due to the effects of both the high pressure and low temperature. During the application of high pressure to other reactions, we found that the cross Mannich reaction of two different aldehydes proceeds under ambient pressure with excellent enantioselectivity, which was the beginning of our engagement with organocatalysis. The higher reactivity of aldimine compared to aldehyde in the proline mediated Mannich and aldol reaction can be explained based on the effective protonation by acid of the aldimine basic nitrogen. The usefulness of this Mannich reaction was demonstrated by the stereoselective synthesis of the N terminal amino acid moiety of Nikkomycin B and Bx. Diarylprolinol silyl ether containing a tri uoromethyl group is an effective organocatalyst of the Mannich reaction of acetaldehyde as the Mannich donor, Mannich reaction of imines derived from aliphatic aldehyde, and Mannich reaction of α keto imine. This catalyst is also suitable for the uninterrupted sequential synthesis of aziridines, in which the key step is the diarylprolinol silyl ether mediated Mannich reaction of the N tosyl imine of chloroacetaldehyde. We also developed an environmentally friendly Mannich reaction in the presence of water, in which only water was employed as the reaction medium without any organic solvent. All the Mannich products are obtained with excellent enantioselectivity, and the reaction conditions are simple without special precautions to exclude moisture and oxygen. The catalysts are inexpensive. Thus, we believe the methods described in the present manuscript will be useful for the production of nitrogen containing natural products and drugs.
Abstract Stereospecificity during monomer addition leads to the formation of stereoregular polymers. If stereospecific monomer addition is exclusively meso , the polymer obtained is isotactic, if totally racemo , it is syndiotactic. Stereoregularity can also strongly influence or even determine the ultimate conformation of a polymer chain. Polypropylene, when prepared with proper stereospecific initiating systems, is stereoregular and isotactic. The polymer becomes conformationally specific as a 3 1 helix upon crystallization. Polytrichloroacetaldehyde (polychloral) as it is formed from the chloral monomer is both isotactic and conformationally specific having a 4 1 helical structure. The genesis of helical structure in polychloral was followed by tracking the embryonic stages of this polymerization.
4-Hydroxycoumarins and ::: 4-hydroxy-1-methyl-2-quinolone react with chloroacetaldehyde in ::: the presence of aqueous potassium carbonate to give ::: 3-hydroxy-2,3-dihydrofuro derivatives (60–75%) which on ::: treatment with aqueous hydrochloric acid provide ::: furo[3,2-c]coumarins and the hitherto unreported ::: 5-methylfuro[3,2-c]quinolin-4-one in nearly quantitative ::: yields.
A new and highly sensitive spectrophotometric method is developed for the determination of sub ppm levels of widely used organophosphorus insecticide dichlorvos. The method is based on alkaline hydrolysis of dichlorvos to dichloroacetaldehyde, which react with p-aminoacetophenone in alkaline medium. The absorption maxima of the yellowish-orange compound formed is measured at 450 nm. Beer's law is obeyed over the concentration range of 5.3 to 42 μg in a final solution volume of 25 ml (0.21-1.68 ppm). The lower limit of detection is 0.06 ppm. The molar absorptivity, Sandell's sensitivity and correlation coefficient were found to be 2.3 x 10 4 L mol -1 cm -1 , 0.011 μg cm -2 and 0.9989 respectively. The standard deviation and relative standard deviation were found to be ±0.004 and 2.70% respectively. The method is simple, sensitive and free from interferences of other pesticides and diverse ions. Other organophosphorous pesticides do not interfere with the proposed method. The method has been satisfactorily applied to the determination of dichlorvos in environmental and agricultural samples.
The relative rate of CH bond activation by the Pt(II) ion decreased in the order HCH2CH3 > HCH2CH2OH > HCH(OH)CH3. The platinum(II)-ethylene complex, [PtCl3(C2H4)]−1, 1, was the key intermediate in the oxidation of ethane, ethanol, and diethyl ether to 1,2-ethanediol by platinum(II) in aqueous medium. In particular, the intermediary of 1 in the oxidation of ethanol to 1,2-ethanediol and 2-chloroethanol was verified through labelling studies. In D2O, 1, upon oxidation with one of a number of oxidants, converted to [PtCl5(CH2CH2OD)]2−, 2. 2 in turn decomposed to a mixture of 1,2-ethanediol and 2-chloroethanol on heating. The rate conversion of 1 was a function of pH, the anions present, and the oxidant used. While the conversion of 1 to 2 involved a nucleophilic attack by water for hydroxide ion), such a step was not observed in the absence of an oxidant. On basic D2O, the sequential replacement of Cl− by OD− in 1 occurred to successively form [PtCl2(OD)(C2H4)]−, [PtCl(OD)2(C2H4)]− and [Pt(OD)3(C2H4)]−. The process was reversed upon acidification. The species [PtCl5(CH2CHO)]2−, 3, appeared to be the source for the small quantities of hydroxy- and/ or chloroacetaldehyde formed during the oxidation of 1. 3 was synthesized independently by the reaction of acetaldehyde with a mixture of PtCl42−, and PtCl62− in aqueous medium. When 1 was oxidized by Cl2 in CD3OD solution, the principal product was [PtCl5(CH2CO2D)]2− 4, when a small amount of water was present, and CD3OCH2CH2OCD3 in the absence of water.
Abstract The in vitro cytotoxicity and structure-activity-relationship (SAR) of vinyl chloride monomer, its main metabolites (chloroethanol, chloroacetaldehyde, acetaldehyde, chloroacetic acid) and some structurally-related substances (di-chloroethane, ethanol, glycolic acid, thioglycolic acid, ethylene glycol and di-ethylene glycol) were tested and compared with six bioassays performed on L-929 murine fibroblasts and ciliated protozoa Tetrahymena pyriformis GL . Major differences of cytotoxicity exist between the tested substances. Moreover, DTP, RNA, MTT and NRI assays appeared to be the four most sensitive assays. The best concordance of results was observed between MTT and NRI ( r = 0.998), between MTT and CB ( r = 0.979) and between RNI and CB ( r = 0.969), but also between DTP and MTT ( r = 0.929), between DTP and RNI ( r = 0.933) and between DTP and CB ( r = 0.941). Significant correlation between the in vitro biological responses of both models and in vivo data of tested substances was noted. Cytotoxicity increased concurrently with the lipophilicity coefficient; this relationship was statistically significant for both the in vivo and in vitro data obtained with the MTT, NRI and CB assays.
The clinical application of ifosfamide is hampered by a central nervous side effect, the so-called ifosfamide encephalopathy. Methylene blue is effective in prophylaxis and reversal of this side effect. In the present study, the in vitro inhibition of (mono)amine oxidases by methylene blue is demonstrated in two different experimental systems. The results provide an explanation for the preventive action of methylene blue in ifosfamide neurotoxicity, because the generation of chloroacetaldehyde (a potential neurotoxin of ifosfamide metabolism) is prevented in liver mitochondria and extrahepatic tissues. Generation of alkylating metabolites was also studied in rat liver perfusions, and methylene blue did not show any inhibition of ifosfamide activation. From these data, we conclude that the clinical effectiveness of methylene blue in treatment and prevention of ifosfamide encephalopathy might be based on inhibition of (mono)amine oxidases. Hepatic bioactivation of ifosfamide is not influenced by methylene blue.
The degradation of trichloroacetaldehyde (TCAD), pentachlorophenol (PCP) and trichloroacetic acid (TCAA) in the oxide flocculation reactor(OFR) were studied A sequential parameters were obtained through kinetic experiments which will play a key part in providing theoretical basis for the application of the OFR It is important in reducing the volume of the reactor, lowering the investment of the instruments and promoting the application of the OFR
Abstract The vascular endothelium consists of a single layer of flattened, contact-inhibited cells that line the inner surface of blood vessels. One important characteristic of these cells is that circulating blood cells should not adhere or become activated by contact with the endothelial cell surface that is exposed to the bloodstream. This non-thrombogenic surface is a characteristic not only of the endothelium in vivo, but also of cultured endothelial cells such as the clonal line of adult bovine aortic endothelium used in this study. Using the mutagen 2-chloroacetaldehyde, we have been able to isolate cell lines of endothelial origin which have stable alterations in morphology and in the ability to bind platelets to the upper cell surface. Other cell surface properties that are altered in these cells include the distribution of a major cell surface glycoprotein (LETS, fibronectin), the response to incubation with a multivalent lectin (concanavalin A) and the distribution of iodinatable cell surface proteins. The binding of platelets to the endothelial cell variants can be quantified by radioisotope labeling of the platelets and measurement of the amount of label on cell-associated platelets. When platelets were incubated with 14 C-serotonin prior to incubation with the variant endothelial cells, it was found that the binding of platelets to these cells was not accompanied by release of serotonin from platelet granules. This is in contrast to the release reported when platelets are allowed to adhere to subendothelial vessel components, and demonstrates that adhesion to endothelial surfaces is dissociable from the platelet release reaction. The use of such endothelial cell variants should allow elucidation of the biochemical properties of the normal endothelial cell surface which render it nonthrombogenic.
Abstract We have analyzed the modification of the mass transfer due to chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) inside a renal barrier model. For that purpose, the Madin–Darby Canine Kidney (MDCK) cell line was cultivated onto a polyethersulfone (PES) membrane. The membrane supporting a junctive cell layer was sandwiched between two polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) chambers containing a microchannel network. The two compartments of this microfluidic biochip were perfused using two independent fluid circuits. Both circuits were connected to a spectrophotometer in order to perform real time analysis of the solute concentration in each compartment. The caffeine and the vitamin B12 were used as two molecular weight markers (195 Da and 1355 Da respectively). The results have shown that the rate of the mass transfer of the caffeine increased when the CAA concentration increased. Thus as a classical renal function parameters, we showed that the dialysance of the caffeine increased from 170 ± 40 μL/cm 2 at 0 μM, to 200 ± 15 μL/cm 2 at 7.6 μM and to 300 ± 60 μL/cm 2 at 76 μM. On contrary, the transfers of the vitamin B12 were weakly affected at both concentrations in our experimental conditions. This led to find dialysance values equal to 36 ± 6, 42 ± 6 and 54 ± 6 μL/cm 2 at 0 μM, 7.6 μM and 76 μM. These results illustrated a molecular weight and dose response dependent mass transfers. In addition, the augmentation of the CAA concentration was correlated with a desorganization of the tight junction proteins claudin-1 and occludin. This led to demonstrate that the modification of the mass transfer was related to the perturbations of the tight junctions in the tissue. In addition, at the investigated CAA concentrations, the Calcein AM staining has shown that cell viability was maintained. However, at higher CAA concentrations (above 152 μM), our biochip model was not suitable to perform the mass transfer analysis. This was due to a chemical reaction between the PES material and the CAA leading to the swelling/deterioration of the PES membrane.
The crystal and molecular structures of the products of the halogenation of the dimorpholide of ethoxyvinylphosphonic acid were determined by the method of x-ray structure analysis. It was established that (dimorpholinophosphoryl)chloroacetaldehyde only exists in the crystals as the Z-enol [(Z)-1-hydroxy-2-(dimorpholinophosphoryl)-2-chloroethene] with intra- and intermolecular H-bonds (=CH...O=P and OH...O′=P′). The (dimorpholinophosphoryl)dibromomethane forms centrosymmetric eight-membered cyclic dimers in the crystals due to intermolecular CH...O′=P′ H-bonds. The structure of the morpholine and phosphoryl groups in both compounds was discussed.
The gamma radiolysis and deep-ultraviolet photolysis of poly(chloroacetaldehyde), PCA, caused efficient depolymerizations at ambient temperature. The processes are promoted by oxygen; the G(m) value (number of monomer produced per 100 eV absorbed) is 11,000 in the presence of air. The chain scission yield is also high (G(s)=5.5) without crosslinking (G(x)=0). These processes are much less efficient in vacuo; G(m)=1,100, G(s) = 1100, G(s) = 2.1, G(x) = 0. Depolymerizations stop short of completion due to repolymerization of monomer formed. Bu4NBr has no effect on the gamma-induced depolymerization but 2,6-di-t-butyl-p-cresol retards it suggesting the participation of free radicals rather than ionic species in the processes. This interpretation is supported by electron spin resonance evidences. PCA is highly susceptible to degradation by plasma. However, this susceptibility can be suppressed by DUV crosslinking of PCA with bis(azidoformates) prior to plasma exposure. Halogen-containing polymers possessing low ceiling temperature may find usages as self-developing plasma-etchable positive resists.
The effects of chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) and methylene blue, both alone and together, on mitochondrial metabolism, hepatic glutathione content, and bile flow were investigated in rats. Oxidation of [1-14C]palmitic acid, [1-14C]octanoic acid, and [1,4-14C]succinic acid allowed for the differentiation between carnitine-dependent long-chain fatty acid metabolism, medium chain fatty acid oxidation, and citric acid cycle activity, respectively. CAA, a metabolite of the anticancer drug ifosfamide, which may be responsible for ifosfamide-induced encephalopathy, inhibited palmitic acid metabolism but not octanoic or succinic acid oxidation, depleted hepatic glutathione, and stimulated bile flow. Methylene blue, which is clinically used to either prevent or reverse ifosfamide-associated encephalopathy, markedly stimulated palmitic acid oxidation either in the presence or absence of CAA, but did not affect the oxidation of octanoic and succinic acid or hepatic glutathione. Taken together, this study demonstrates that CAA inhibits palmitic acid metabolism. Methylene blue stimulates long-chain fatty acid oxidation, most likely by facilitating the translocation of fatty acids into mitochondria, and compensates for the CAA effect in vivo.
The metabolism and mutagenicity of phenyl and 4-nitrophenyl vinyl ethers (PVE and NPVE) and their epoxide metabolites, phenoxyoxirane (PO) and 2'-(4-nitrophenoxy)oxirane (NPO), were studied including reactions with DNA and tests for carcinogenicity. PVE and NPVE were epoxidized in dry acetone by dimethyldioxirane to give high yields (95%) of the pure epoxides. The epoxides are unstable in aqueous media and in 0.1 N phosphate buffer, pH 7.4, at 37°C; they had half-lives of 2.7 min (PO) and 4.4 min (NPO). These times were reduced to 1.9 min (PO) and 2.5 min (NPO) in the presence of isotonic (154 mM) chloride ion. In neutral phosphate buffer these epoxides hydrolyze to form glycolaldehyde and the corresponding phenols; in the presence of chloride ion, chloroacetaldehyde and several unknown compounds are also formed. Glycolaldehyde was also found as a hydrolysis product of the presumed epoxides generated in the hepatic microsomal oxidation of PVE and NPVE. PO and NPO reacted with DNA to form adducts that depurinated in weak acid to form 7-(2'-oxoethyl)guanine and N 2 ,3-etheno-guanine. PO was weakly mutagenic in Salmonella typhimurium TA1535 while NPO was much more mutagenic under the same conditions. PO and NPO were found to have mutagenic half-lives that matched their chemical half-lives. PO and NPO were found to be tumorigenic in the skin of mice after single or five initiating doses followed by multiple doses of phorbol ester (TPA). NPO was a stronger tumor initiator than PO. NPO had appreciable activity as an initiator of hepatoma formation in infant male B6C3F 1 mice. Thus PO and NPO are electrophilic, mutagenic and tumorigenic metabolites of their corresponding phenyl vinyl ethers.
Abstract ::: Adenine residues of 70S avian myeloblastosis virus (AMV) RNA are modified when reacted with chloroacetaldehyde. This modification introduces characteristic fluorescent e-adenosine (eA) probes which were used to monitor the reaction. Under suitable conditions, modified 70S(eA) RNA was maintained intact and was inactive as a template for the AMV DNA polymerase. Furthermore, it inhibited the reaction catalyzed by AMV polymerase when 70S RNA was used as template-primer and had no effect on the two tested bacterial polymerases. Protection against the 70S (eA) RNA inhibition was observed when 70S RNA was primed with oligo(dT) indicating preference of the polymerase for the oligo(dT) primed regions.
A new solid sorbent passive air sampler for aldehydes had a silicone membrane atop a cylindrical diffusion path of 1.1 cm length and 1.3 cm diameter above a 10 percent (w/w) O-(2,3,4,5,6-pentafluorobenzyl)hydroxylamine hydrochloride (PFBHA) Tenax TA pellet. Known vapor concentrations of Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)-regulated aldehydes near their permissible exposure limits were generated from a syringe pump dynamic air dilution system that was connected to an exposure chamber. The O-oxime derivatives from aldehyde reaction with PFBHA were desorbed with hexane, and quantified by capillary gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) or gas chromatography/electron capture detection (GC/ECD). The capacity for aldehydes with one carbonyl group was 30-35 mumoles, and 15 mumoles for the dialdehyde, glutaraldehyde. The experimental sampling rates in mL/min were 8.86 +/- 0.38, acetaldehyde; 11.69 +/- 0.32, chloroacetaldehyde; 7.85 +/- 0.19, crotonaldehyde; 9.97 +/- 0.10, formaldehyde; 6.47 +/- 0.42, furfural; and 4.46 +/- 0.15, glutaraldehyde. Other data on valeraldehyde and acrolein have shown that the sampling constants were independent of face velocity between 0.1 to 0.35 m/s (20 to 70 fpm), temperatures between 9 to 48 degrees C, RH between 3 to 79 percent, and intermittent sampling exposure pattern.
The reaction of phosphorylated α-chloroacetaldehydes with 3,4-diaminofurazane gives enamines, bisenamines, semiaminals, and O,N-acetals, whose cyclization leads to previously unreported phosphorylated furazano[3,4-b]piperazines.
Intramolecular halogen atom coordinated H transfer reaction in the gas phase dissociation of protonated dichlorvos derivatives has been explored by electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry. Upon collisional activation, protonated dichlorvos underwent dissociation reaction via cleavage of the P-O bond to give reactive ion-neutral complex (INC) intermediate, [dimethoxylphosphinoylium + dichloroacetaldehyde]. Besides direct dissociation of the complex, intramolecular chlorine atom coordinated H transfer reaction within the complex takes place, leading to the formation of protonated dimethyl chlorophosphate. To investigate the fragmentation mechanism, deuterium-labeled experiments and several other halogen-substituted (Br and F) analogs of dichlorvos were prepared and evaluated, which display a similar intramolecular halogen transfer. Density functional theory (DFT)-based calculations were performed and the computational results also support the mechanism. Graphical Abstract ᅟ.
The rate of reaction of chloroacetaldehyde (0.039 M) with the "free" adenine residue in deoxyadenosine-5'-phosphate (dAMP) at pH 6.5 has been found to be nearly equal to that at pH 4.5. Practically 100% of the adenine is converted to a fluorescent product (epsilon-adenine residue) on incubation for 60 h at 37 degrees C and pH 6.5. Of the adenine residues in "single-stranded" DNA, however, only 14% react with chloroacetaldehyde (0.039 M) under the same incubation conditions. The reaction rate of this 14% is nearly equal to that of dAMP, but the fluorescence of the product is appreciably quenched; the quantum yield is only 0.45 times that of the "free" adenine residue. In "double-helical" DNA, on the other hand, no adenine residue has been found to react with chloracetaldehyde. Possible application of these findings to structural studies of DNA is suggested.
Indirect spectrophotometric method is developed for the determination of widely used organophosphorus insecticide Fly-Fighter. The method is based on alkaline hydrolysis of Fly-Fighter to dichloroacetaldehyde followed by benzoic acid in alkaline medium. The absorption maxima of the reddish-brown dye formed is measured at 510 nm. Beer’s law is obeyed over the concentration range of 2.3 to 25 µg in a final volume of 25 ml (0.092-1.00 ppm). The molar absorptivity, Sandell’s sensitivity and correlation coefficient were found to be 1.8x10 4 l mole -1 cm -1 , 0.002 µg cm -2 and 09989 respectively. The lower limit of detection is about 0.001. The standard deviation and relative standard deviation were found to be ± 0.002 and 1.98% respectively. The method is simple sensitive and free from interferences of other pesticides and diverse ions. Other organophosphorous pesticides do not interfere with the proposed method. The method is simple, fast and has been satisfactorily applied to the determination of Fly-Fighter in agricultural & environmental samples. Key Words : Spectrophotometer, Fly-Fighter, Benzoic Acid Agricultural, Environmental Samples.
Exposure of S. typhimurium strains TA 1530, TA 1535 and G-46 to vinyl chloride increased the number of His+ revertants/plate 16, 12 or 5 times over the spontaneous mutation rate. After 6 h of exposure to vinyl chloride, the mutagenic response for TA 1530 strain was enhanced 7-, 4- or 5-fold when fortified postmitochondrial liver fractions from humans, rats or mice were added. The enzyme-mediated vinyl chloride mutagenicity was dependent on an NADPH generating system and the enzyme activity was localized in a liver microsomal fraction; 9,000 times g liver supernatant was three times more active than microsomes, while liver cytosol or alcohol dehydrogenase did not affect the mutagenicity. Phenobarbitone pretreatment of rats and mice increased the mutagenic response by up to 15-40 percent as compared to untreated controls. The relative mutagenic activities of VCM, taking the value from mouse liver as 100, for TA 1530 strain mediated by 9,000 times g tissue fractions were: rat liver, 80; mouse and rat kidney, 20 and 16; mouse and rat lung, less than 7; human liver (from four biopsy specimens) 170, 64, 70 and 46. Chloroacetaldehyde and chloroacetic acid, a urinary metabolite of VCM, showed toxic effects, while chloroethanol was weakly mutagenic for TA 1530 strain.
The mutational specificity of chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), one of the metabolites of the human carcinogen vinyl chloride (VC), has been determined through the examination of Arg+ revertants in Escherichia coli AB2497 (Arg-) and identification of their tRNA suppressors. The predominant mutations were GC-->AT transitions (65%) followed by AT-->TA transversions (12.5%). The observed mutational specificity of CAA is very similar to the reported specificity of the other VC metabolite, chloroethylene oxide. The induction of the adaptive response to alkylating agents significantly decreased the frequency of CAA-induced Rifr and Arg+ mutants in E. coli AB2497 and increased the cell survival. Likewise, the adaptation of bacterial cells decreased the frequency of GC-->AT transitions in CAA-treated M13glyU phage transformed to E. coli JC15419 and increased the phage survival. Experiments with strain MS23, which is an alkA mutant deficient in 3-methyladenine-DNA glycosylase II, and with MS23 harboring the pYN1000 plasmid carrying the alkA+ gene, have shown that induction of this repair enzyme is responsible for reduction of the level of CAA-induced mutations. The role of N2,3-ethenoguanine, among the other etheno-adducts, in CAA-induced mutagenesis and as a target for repair in 3-methyladenine-DNA glycosylase II proficient bacterial cells is discussed.
The alkylation of disodiopentane-2,4-dione with halogeno-acetals was found to be dependent on the leaving halide. Chloroacetaldehyde dimethyl, diethyl, and ethylene acetals failed to yield any alkylation products whereas bromo-acetaldehyde dimethyl, diethyl, and ethylene acetals did afford γ-alkylation products. β-Bromopropionaldehyde diethyl acetal and β-chloropropionaldehyde ethylene acetal alkylated disodiopentane-2,4-dione. Copper chelates of the alkylation products were prepared.
Aldolases are emerging as powerful and cost efficient tools for the industrial synthesis of chiral molecules. They catalyze enantioselective carbon-carbon bond formations, generating up to two chiral centers under mild reaction conditions. Despite their versatility, narrow substrate ranges and enzyme inactivation under synthesis conditions represented major obstacles for large-scale applications of aldolases. In this study we applied directed evolution to optimize Escherichia coli 2-deoxy-D-ribose 5-phosphate aldolase (DERA) as biocatalyst for the industrial synthesis of (3R,5S)-6-chloro-2,4,6-trideoxyhexapyranoside. This versatile chiral precursor for vastatin drugs like Lipitor (atorvastatin) is synthesized by DERA in a tandem-aldol reaction from chloroacetaldehyde and two acetaldehyde equivalents. However, E. coli DERA shows low affinity to chloroacetaldehyde and is rapidly inactivated at aldehyde concentrations useful for biocatalysis. Using high-throughput screenings for chloroacetaldehyde resistance and for higher productivity, several improved variants have been identified. By combination of the most beneficial mutations we obtained a tenfold improved variant compared to wild-type DERA with regard to (3R,5S)-6-chloro-2,4,6-trideoxyhexapyranoside synthesis, under industrially relevant conditions.
Abstract Dichloroacetaldehyde, a presumed metabolite of the in secticides dichlorvos and tridilorphon, is mutagenic in the Salmonella/microsome test. Its mutagenic potency is higher than that of the established mutagen dichlorvos. It is pos sible that the bacterical mutagenicity test only or mainly detects the effect of methylation by dichlorvos.
A rapid and simplified chromatographic assay is reported for the quantification of adefovir (PMEA) utilizing derivatization with chloroacetaldehyde. Adefovir is isolated from plasma using protein precipitation with trichloroacetic acid; next, the fluorescent 1,N6-etheno derivative is directly formed at 98 degrees C in the buffered extract with chloroacetaldehyde. This derivative is analyzed using isocratic ion-pair liquid chromatography and fluorescence detection at 254 nm for excitation and 425 nm for emission. In the evaluated concentration range (10-1000 ng/ml) precisions < or = 5% and accuracies between 95 and 117% were found, using a 0.2-ml volume of plasma. The lower limit of quantification is 10 ng/ml with a intra-assay precision of 16%. The currently reported bioanalytical method is 20-25-fold more sensitive than previously published assays.
We have described a method to reliably measure the free adenine content of yeast extract powders or the adenine concentrations found in chemically-defined and complex fermentation samples. This method relies on the selective precolumn derivatization of adenine with chloroacetaldehyde to form the fluorescent adenine adduct l,N 6 -ethenoadenine. The derivatized adenine can then be resolved from other components found in samples with reverse phase HPLC and selectively monitored with fluorescence. This method was then used to study the adenine nutritional requirements of adenine auxotrophs of recombinant Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The adenine content of individual yeast extract powders was examined in relation to the cell mass (dry cell weight, DCW) achieved in culture media formulated with these powders. A general increase in DCW was observed with increasing adenine concentration in the yeast extract. Conversely, we observed that as adenine concentration increased in complex media the expression levels of a heterologous protein decreased. This method also allowed us to examine the adenine/DCW ratio in both steady-state continuous culture and batch culture. In both cases, the total in vivo adenine content as measured by the amount of adenine utilized from the culture media was estimated to be ca. 25-40 mg/g DCW. However, data suggest that this value is in excess of what is strictly required for cell growth and represents the quantity of adenine required to saturate intracellular pools of adenine or adenine metabolites. A minimum requirement for cell growth is at least as low as 12.5 mg of adenine/g of cells.
Abstract ::: DNA can be chemically cleaved at the site of chloroacetaldehyde-modified residues by the chemicals used for Maxam-Gilbert sequencing reactions. Use of this technique facilitates fine structural analysis of unpaired DNA bases in DNA with non-B-DNA structure. This method was used to study the non-B-DNA structure adopted by the poly-(dG).poly(dC) sequence under torsional stress at various ionic conditions. In the presence of 2 mM Mg2+, the 5' half of the deoxycytosine tract is very reactive to chloroacetaldehyde, while the 3' half is virtually unreactive. In the poly(dG) tract, chloroacetaldehyde reaction is restricted to the center guanine residues. In the absence of Mg2+, however, it is the 5' half of the deoxyguanine tract that is reactive to chloroacetaldehyde, while the 3' half is unreactive. And chloroacetaldehyde reaction is restricted to the center cytosine residues in the poly(dC) stretch. These results strongly suggest that the poly(dG).poly(dC) sequence is folded into halves from the center of the sequence to form a tetra-stranded-like structure. Such a structure contains either a triplex consisting of poly(dG).poly(dG).poly(dC) strands in the presence of Mg2+ or a triplex consisting of poly(dC).poly(dG).poly(dC) strands in the absence of Mg2+. The fourth strand, not involved in triplex formation, is closely associated with the triplex and is positioned in such a way that DNA bases are exposed and freely accessible to the chloroacetaldehyde reaction.
Abstract Etheno adducts in DNA are promutagenic lesions and are formed from vinyl chloride, urethane, and lipid peroxidation-derived products such as 4-hydroxynonenal. Such adducts were induced in a B-lymphoid cell line (Raji) by a metabolite of vinyl chloride, 2-chloroacetaldehyde. By modification of a method of Bedell et al., etheno dA was determined in 20 μg DNA by HPLC–fluorimetry. Our method has a detection limit of 5 fmol which is one two-hundredth that of the original method. By use of this method initial evidence was found that cigarette smoke can also induce etheno dA adducts in Raji cell DNA.
The KvC=O force constants of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acetone, glyoxal, p‐benzoquinone, o‐benzoquinone, and of chloroacetaldehyde have been determined by Pariser‐Parr‐Pople's SCF‐MO procedure. The theoretical expression for the force constant corresponding to this theory is given. The KvC=O force constant is found to decrease in the order formaldehyde, chloroacetaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acetone; this is due to the corresponding decrease of the effective electronegativity of the carbonyl carbon atom. The KvC=O force constant decreases also in the series acetone, o‐benzoquinone, p‐benzoquinone, and in the series acetaldehyde, glyoxal; this is due to conjugation effects. The force constants calculated by this theory agree satisfactorily with the experimental values.
A model ultimate carcinogen, N-acetoxy-2-acetylaminofluorene (N-acetoxy-AAF), reacts with specific DNA sites in supercoiled plasmid DNA that assume non-B DNA structures. The reaction was studied using supercoiled plasmid DNA harboring either inverted repeats or poly(dG)--poly(dC) sequences, the sequences which are known to adopt non-B DNA structure when under torsional stress. The sites of modification were determined by first digesting the chemically treated DNA with a restriction enzyme, and then by digesting the site of modification with S1 nuclease. Southern blot analysis of resulting DNA fragments revealed that N-acetoxy-AAF detects non-B DNA structures in common with another chemical carcinogen, chloroacetaldehyde, which reacts specifically with unpaired adenine and cytosine residues. These results suggest that specific DNA sites with unpaired DNA bases in supercoiled plasmid DNA, and possibly similar structures in chromatin, are hot-spots for certain chemical carcinogen attack.
Exposure to DBPs in humans can take place through ingestion of drinking water or inhalation and dermal absorption during showering or swimming [7] [8] [9] [10] . Many studies have suggested associations between exposure to DBPs and adverse health effects. Increased incidence of asthma [11] , bladder cancer [12, 13] , and colorectal cancer [14] have been reported. Adverse pregnancy outcomes such as spontaneous abortions [15] , stillbirth [16] , and fetal growth restriction [17] have also been noted. To date, more than six hundred DBPs including trihalomethanes, haloacids, halonitriles, haloaldeydes, haloketones, halonitromethanes, haloamines, haloamides, haloalcohols, and halobenzoquinones have been identified in disinfected waters [9, [18] [19] [20] [21] [22] [23] . Several laboratory-controlled studies have been conducted to evaluate potential toxicities of DBPs providing evidence about cytotoxic, genotoxic, carcinogenic and teratogenic potentials [20, [24] [25] [26] [27] [28] . However, the toxicological data are limited to only a small fraction of identified DBPs. In consequence, many DBPs that have been detected in disinfected waters remain with unknown toxicological profiles. Chloral hydrate and bromal hydrate, the hydrated forms of trichloroacetaldehyde and tribromoacetaldehyde respectively, belong to the chemical class of haloacetaldehydes. This class of DBPs has been reported to be one of the most abundant DBP classes by weight [19, 25, 29, 30] . Occurrence studies have shown that the predominant trhihaloacetaldehyde in chlorinated waters is chloral hydrate, while bromal hydrate is the predominant trihaloacetaldehyde in chlorinated waters containing high levels of bromide [19, 31] . In a recent study, BH was detected as one of the degradation byproducts of benzophenone-3, a UV filter commonly used in sunscreens, in chlorinated swimming pools filled with seawater [32] . 4 Toxicokinetic studies have shown that CH is rapidly absorbed after oral administration, and enters the liver where it undergoes extensive metabolism in rodents [33, 34] and in humans [35, 36] . Studies of the potential carcinogenicity of CH in mice have demonstrated that it is able to induce hepatocellular adenomas and carcinomas, and exposure to CH has been associated with increases in malignant lymphoma and adenoma of the pituitary gland [37] [38] [39] . However, there was still no persuasive evidence to connect chloral hydrate exposure and the development of cancers in humans [40] . CH was also found to induce significant aneugenic effects in mice [41] . Furthermore, micronuclei were produced in germ cells of male mice treated intraperitoneally with CH [42] . CH was also reported to be able to lead to chromosomal loss in mouse spermatids [43] and in human lymphocytes [44] . Nevertheless, most of the investigations incorporated only one or two in vitro assays [25, 45] and results from genotoxicity assessment of CH remain inconclusive. Concerning BH, although little is known about its toxicity, the U.S.
Dichloroethane (1,2-DCE) is a synthetic compound that is not known to be formed naturally. Nevertheless, several pure microbial cultures are able to use it as a sole carbon source for growth. Degradation of 1,2-DCE proceeds via 2-chloroethanol, chloroacetaldehyde and chloroacetate to glycolate. The genes encoding the enzymes responsible for the conversion of 1,2-DCE to glycolic acid have been isolated. The haloalkane dehalogenase and an aldehyde dehydrogenase are plasmid encoded. Two other enzymes, the alcohol dehydrogenase and the haloacid dehalogenase, are chromosomally encoded. Sequence analysis indicates that the haloacid dehalogenase belongs to the L-specific 2-chloroproprionic acid dehalogenases. From the three-dimensional structure and sequence similarities, the haloalkane dehalogenase appears to be a member of the α/β hydrolase fold hydrolytic enzymes, of which several are involved in the degradation of aromatic and aliphatic xenobiotic compounds.
The matrix-isolation technique has been combined with infrared spectroscopy to identify and characterize the products formed by irradiation of cage-paired CrCl2O2 and a series of chloroethenes, C2HxCly (x + y = 4). For each system, oxygen-atom transfer occurred upon irradiation, yielding the corresponding acetyl chloride derivative and the Cl2CrO species. The products were formed in the same matrix cage and strongly interacted to form a distinct molecular complex after formation. Three different modes of interaction were explored computationally: η1 to the oxygen atom, η2 to the CO bond, and η1 to the chlorine atom. In addition, a five-membered metallocycle and the chloroepoxide species were considered. No evidence was obtained for the chloroacetaldehyde derivative, indicating the occurrence of oxygen-atom attack at the more substituted carbon of the chloroethene. Evidence tentatively supporting the formation of the metallocycle was obtained as well. Theoretical calculations indicated that the acetyl chl...
Enantioselective hetero-Diels–Alder reactions provide a versatile and convergent approach to the construction of chiral heterocycles.1 In recent years, significant progress has been achieved in the development of efficient chiral metal and organic catalysts for enantioselective hetero-Diels–Alder reactions.2,3 Their great synthetic utility continues to drive further interest in improved protocols and expanded substrate scope. Of particular need are reactions in which the starting materials are readily accessible, and low catalyst loadings can be employed while still maintaining high levels of enantioselectivity. ::: ::: We have recently reported the first chiral N-heterocyclic carbene (NHC) catalyzed hetero-Diels–Alder reaction, via the catalytic generation of chiral enolates that serve as dienophiles.4,5 We have also extended the dienophile precursors from electron-deficient enals to α-chloroaldehydes,6 which can be readily prepared from the corresponding aldehydes.7 However, α-chloroaldehydes are sensitive to moisture and oxygen,8a and their preparation and storage require precautions. Furthermore, α-chloroacetaldehyde, which would provide entry into challenging but synthetically important enantioselective acetate additions,9 is difficult and unsafe to obtain in pure form.8b In this communication, we document efficient solutions to both of these challenges through the use of α-chloroaldehyde bisulfite salts under biphasic conditions (eq 1). This new protocol both extends the scope and operational simplicity of NHC-catalyzed enantioselective hetero-Diels–Alder reactions and demonstrates that this unique class of catalysts readily tolerates aqueous conditions.10 ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: (1) ::: ::: ::: At the outset of our studies, we investigated a number of α-chloroaldehyde surrogates, including hemiacetals, bromopyruvic acid, and the α-chloroaldehyde bisulfite adducts. Among these starting materials, the α-chloroaldehyde bisulfite adducts were particularly attractive as they were bench-stable solids that could be readily prepared by the addition of aqueous sodium bisulfite to a solution of the appropriate aldehydes.11b Their use as substrates, however, would necessitate the use of aqueous conditions to decompose the bisulfite adducts to the corresponding aldehydes in the presence of the NHC catalyst.11,12 ::: ::: To test the feasibility of our approach, we selected inexpensive, commercially available chloroacetaldehyde sodium bisulfite 2 as a precursor of chloroacetaldehyde for the NHC-promoted reactions with two representative oxodienes: 4-oxoenoate 3a and β,γ-unsaturated α-ketoester 4a (Scheme 1). We screened a number of reaction conditions before selecting biphasic conditions employing 1.0 M K2CO3 as the inorganic base and EtOAc as the organic solvent for further development. These studies established the feasibility of using the bisulfite adducts as starting materials but confirmed our fears of epimerization. The use of 3a as the oxodiene provided product 5a only in 31% ee, while the use of 4a afforded adduct 6a in >99% ee.4b ::: ::: ::: ::: Scheme 1 ::: ::: NHC-Catalyzed Hetero-Diels–Alder Reactions with Chloroaldehyde Sodium Bisulfite 2 ::: ::: ::: ::: We reasoned from these results that the low enantioselectivity observed for 5a was due to epimerization of the annulation product. Notably, this product contains a readily epimerizable stereocenter by virtue of the β,γ-unsaturated ester and lacks adjacent substitution, which had been present in all of the examples from our prior work. To improve the enantiomeric excess of the product 5a, we investigated the effect of reaction conditions including inorganic bases and organic solvents (Table 1). Although the use of either a weaker base (NaHCO3, entries 1 and 2) or a nonpolar solvent (entry 3) suppressed epimerization, the combination of NaHCO3 and toluene afforded the product only in 75% ee. In contrast, those of 1.0 M K2CO3 and toluene minimized the epimerization (entries 4 and 5) at the expense of diminished yields. Some of the product loss was traced to hydrolysis, and improved yields could be obtained simply by employing the more stable ethyl ester (entries 6 and 7). Notably, these conditions also allowed us to lower the catalyst loading to 1 mol % of chiral triazolium precatalyst1. ::: ::: ::: ::: Table 1 ::: ::: Effect of Inorganic Bases and Organic Solvents on Epimerizationa ::: ::: ::: ::: The scope of these conditions for NHC-catalyzed Diels–Alder reactions with chloroacetaldehyde bisulfite salt 2 with various oxodiene substrates is shown in Table 2. This survey demonstrated that this biphasic process accommodated various substrates 3b–e (entries 1–4) including aromatic and aliphatic substitution. Except for entry 2, all of the substrates screened afforded the desired 4,6-disubstituted dihydropyran-2-ones with good enantioselectivity, albeit slightly diminished by epimerization. As expected, the β,γ-unsaturated α-ketoesters 4a and 4b furnished the corresponding products in good yields and with excellent enantioselectivity. The absolute configuration of the products was determined by single-crystal X-ray analysis of the product (R)-ethyl 6-(4-bromophenyl)-2-oxo-3,4-dihydro-2H-pyran-4-carboxylate (Table 2, entry 2).13 Interestingly, the sterically hindered 4-oxoenolate 7, which did not react with any α-chloroaldehydes in our previous investigations, afforded bicyclic product 8 with excellent enantioselectivity when catalyzed by 5 mol % of 1. ::: ::: ::: ::: Table 2 ::: ::: NHC-Catalyzed Biphasic Diels–Alder Reactions of 2 with Different Oxodienesa ::: ::: ::: ::: In addition to allowing direct use of the commercially available chloroacetaldehyde bisulfite adduct, we also sought to utilize these conditions to simplify the preparation, handling, and reactions of substituted α-chloroaldehydes. After some experimentation, we identified reliable conditions for the conversion of common α-chloroaldehydes to the bench-stable, solid bisulfite adducts (see Supporting Information).11b We were pleased to find that the reaction conditions optimized for the chloroacetaldehyde bisulfite salt were directly applicable to these substrates. Biphasic reactions with either substituted 4-oxoenolates (entries 1–7) or β,γ-unsaturated α-ketoesters (entry 8 and 9) provided the Diels–Alder products in good chemical yields and excellent enantioselectivity.14 ::: ::: In all cases, only 1 mol % of chiral triazolium precatalyst 1 was employed. The absolute configuration was determined by X-ray analysis of an enantiomerically pure sample of (3S,4S)-ethyl 3-benzyl-6-(4-bromophenyl)-2-oxo-3,4-dihydro-2H-pyran-4-carboxylate (Table 3, entry 2, see Supporting Information).15 ::: ::: ::: ::: Table 3 ::: ::: NHC-Catalyzed Biphasic Diels–Alder Reactions of Chloroaldehyde Bisulfite Saltsa ::: ::: ::: ::: In summary, we have developed a catalytic enantioselective method for hetero-Diels–Alder reactions that employs easily available, bench-stable α-chloroaldehyde bisulfite salts as starting materials. This enantioselective, biphasic hetero-Diels–Alder reaction represents the first enantioselective NHC-catalyzed reaction that is demonstrably water-tolerant. It provides an innovative solution to enantioselective additions of acetate equivalents using the inexpensive, commercially available bisulfite adduct of chloroacetaldehyde, thereby interfacing with ongoing efforts to employ commodity chemicals in lieu of preactivated or protected reactants.16 This approach also extends the scope of enantioselective NHC-catalysis and provides a more convenient and operationally simple protocol for NHC-catalyzed Diels–Alder reactions.
2-Chloroethanol (2-CE) is a commonly used solvent in industry; unfortunately, severe hypotension is one of main toxic signs during intoxication. Calcium ion modulation is considered to be an important role of vasorelaxation. The aim of this study is to evaluate either 2-CE or its main metabolite, chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), possible cause of hypotension, by using isolated rat aortic rings. Results revealed that 2-CE caused a weakly relaxation in the phenylephrine (PE) pre-induced endothelium-intact aortic rings. However, its metabolite, CAA induced vasorelaxation and showed dose dependency in endothelium-intact and -denuded aortic rings. The half inhibitory concentration (IC50 )o f2 -CE exceeded 50 mM; meanwhile, the IC50 values of CAA in the endothelium-intact and -denuded aortic rings were 3.3 and 2.7 mM, respectively. The CAA-induced relaxation could be significantly attenuated by adding calcium (CaCl2 )a nd various Ca 2+ channel blockers, dantrolene, nifedipine, and NiCl2 .N ifedipine presents the most strong inhibition effect among the calcium blockers. In conclusion, it is suggested that the hypotension effect of 2-CE intoxicated cases may be mainly mediated by its metabolite CAA, and calcium channels are partially involved inducing the vasorelaxation.
The synthesis of imidazo[1,2-c]pteridine and its alkyl derivatives is described. The reaction of 4-aminopteridine with chloroacetaldehyde gave the ring-opened 2-formamido-3-(2-imidazolyl)pyrazine and the isomeric 2-amino-3-(1-formyl-2-imidazolyl)pyrazine but no imidazopteridine. 4-Amino-2-methylpteridine and chloroacetaldehyde similarly gave 2-acetamino-3-(2-imidazolyl)pyrazine in high yield. Hydrolysis of these compounds gave 2-amino-3-(2-imidazolyl)pyrazine, which was used as the key intermediate for the synthesis of the title compounds. Thus it reacted with triethyl orthoformate and homologues to give respectively the parent imidazo-[1,2-c]pteridine and its 6-methyl and 6-ethyl homologues. Their 2,3-dimethyl derivatives were prepared likewise from 2-amino-3-(2-imidazolyl)-5,6-dimethylpyrazine, which in turn was prepared from 4-amino-6,7-dimethyl- or 4-amino-2,6,7-trimethylpteridine.
Abstract Rapid conversion and high rate of excretion of the fungicide, Imugan- 14 C (N-formyl-N′ - (3,4-dichlorophenyl)-2, 2, 2-trichloroacetaldehydeaminal, Fig. 1) has been observed in rats upon long term oral administration 2 . In simulated waste composting experiments 3 this fungicide is metabolized to 3,4-dichloroaniline (3,4-DCA). 3,4-DCA and 3,3′, 4,4′-tetrachloroazobenzene (3,3′, 4,4′-TCAB) have been isolated from soil treated with it 4 . Algae have been found to convert it to a ring hydroxylated monohydroxy 3,3′,4,4′-TCAB 5 . In this work, the isolation and structure elucidation of metabolites of Imugan excreted with urine and faeces of rats are reported.
Cyclophosphamide and ifosfamide are two commonly used DNA-alkylating agents in cancer chemotherapy that undergo biotransformation to several toxic and non-toxic metabolites, including acrolein and chloroacetaldehyde (CAA). Acrolein and CAA toxicities occur by several different mechanisms, including ROS formation and protein damage (oxidation), however, these pathways of toxicity and protecting agents used to prevent them have yet to be compared and ranked in a single study. This research focused on the molecular targets of acrolein and CAA toxicities and strategies to decrease toxicities. Hepatocyte viability (cytotoxicity) was assessed using Trypan blue uptake; formation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and endogenous H2O2 were also assessed in the hepatocyte model. In cell-free models (bovine serum albumin and hepatic microsomes), protein carbonylation was the measurement of toxicity. The present study demonstrated that acrolein was a more potent toxin than CAA for freshly isolated rat hepatocytes, bovine serum albumin and rat hepatic microsomes. Acrolein protein carbonylation was dependent on its concentration; as acrolein concentration increased, protein carbonylation increased in a linear trend, whereas, CAA deviated from the trend and did not cause protein carbonylation at lower concentrations (<400 μM). Aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) is a major pathway for detoxifying pathway for CAA in hepatocytes, as a 3-fold increase in cytotoxicity occurred when cells were incubated with cyanamide, an ALDH inhibitor. Inhibiting ALDH or depleting GSH in hepatocytes increased cytotoxicity by about 3-fold in acrolein-treated hepatocytes. The overall effectiveness of protecting agents to prevent or suppress acrolein or CAA toxicities in cell and cell-free models were ranked in order of most effective to least effective: reducing agents (sodium borohydride, sodium bisulfite)>thiol-containing compounds (N-acetylcysteine, cysteine, glutathione, 2-mercaptoethane sulfonate [MESNA], penicillamine)>carbonyl scavengers/amines (aminoguanidine, hydralazine, hydroxylamine)>antioxidants/ROS scavengers (ascorbic acid, Trolox; only utilized in hepatocyte system). An understanding of acrolein and CAA toxicities and the ability of protecting agents to protect against toxicities may help to establish or improve existing therapeutic interventions against the side effects associated with acrolein or CAA in cyclophosphamide or ifosfamide treatment.
The oxazaphosphorines including cyclophosphamide (CPA), ifosfamide (IFO), and trofosfamide represent an important group of therapeutic agents due to their substantial antitumor and immuno-modulating activity. CPA is widely used as an anticancer drug, an immunosuppressant, and for the mobilization of hematopoetic progenitor cells from the bone marrow into peripheral blood prior to bone marrow transplantation for aplastic anemia, leukemia, and other malignancies. New oxazaphosphorines derivatives have been developed in an attempt to improve selectivity and response with reduced toxicity. These derivatives include mafosfamide (NSC 345842), glufosfamide (D19575, beta-D-glucosylisophosphoramide mustard), NSC 612567 (aldophosphamide perhydrothiazine), and NSC 613060 (aldophosphamide thiazolidine). This review highlights the metabolism and transport of these oxazaphosphorines (mainly CPA and IFO, as these two oxazaphosphorine drugs are the most widely used alkylating agents) and the clinical implications. Both CPA and IFO are prodrugs that require activation by hepatic cytochrome P450 (CYP)-catalyzed 4-hydroxylation, yielding cytotoxic nitrogen mustards capable of reacting with DNA molecules to form crosslinks and lead to cell apoptosis and/or necrosis. Such prodrug activation can be enhanced within tumor cells by the CYP-based gene directed-enzyme prodrug therapy (GDEPT) approach. However, those newly synthesized oxazaphosphorine derivatives such as glufosfamide, NSC 612567 and NSC 613060, do not need hepatic activation. They are activated through other enzymatic and/or non-enzymatic pathways. For example, both NSC 612567 and NSC 613060 can be activated by plain phosphodiesterase (PDEs) in plasma and other tissues or by the high-affinity nuclear 3'-5' exonucleases associated with DNA polymerases, such as DNA polymerases and epsilon. The alternative CYP-catalyzed inactivation pathway by N-dechloroethylation generates the neurotoxic and nephrotoxic byproduct chloroacetaldehyde (CAA). Various aldehyde dehydrogenases (ALDHs) and glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are involved in the detoxification of oxazaphosphorine metabolites. The metabolism of oxazaphosphorines is auto-inducible, with the activation of the orphan nuclear receptor pregnane X receptor (PXR) being the major mechanism. Oxazaphosphorine metabolism is affected by a number of factors associated with the drugs (e.g., dosage, route of administration, chirality, and drug combination) and patients (e.g., age, gender, renal and hepatic function). Several drug transporters, such as breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP), multidrug resistance associated proteins (MRP1, MRP2, and MRP4) are involved in the active uptake and efflux of parental oxazaphosphorines, their cytotoxic mustards and conjugates in hepatocytes and tumor cells. Oxazaphosphorine metabolism and transport have a major impact on pharmacokinetic variability, pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic relationship, toxicity, resistance, and drug interactions since the drug-metabolizing enzymes and drug transporters involved are key determinants of the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of oxazaphosphorines. A better understanding of the factors that affect the metabolism and transport of oxazaphosphorines is important for their optional use in cancer chemotherapy.
DNA adducts are mutagenic and clastogenic. Because of their harmful nature, lesions are recognized by many proteins involved in DNA repair. However, mounting evidence suggests that lesions also are recognized by proteins with no obvious role in repair processes. One such protein is topoisomerase II, an essential enzyme that removes knots and tangles from the DNA. Because topoisomerase II generates a protein-linked double-stranded DNA break during its catalytic cycle, it has the potential to fragment the genome. Previous studies indicate that abasic sites and other lesions that distort the double helix stimulate topoisomerase II-mediated DNA cleavage. Therefore, to further explore interactions between DNA lesions and the enzyme, the effects of exocyclic adducts on DNA cleavage mediated by human topoisomerase IIalpha were determined. When located within the four-base overhang of a topoisomerase II cleavage site (at the +2 or +3 position 3' relative to the scissile bond), 3,N(4)-ethenodeoxycytidine, 3,N(4)-etheno-2'-ribocytidine, 1,N(2)-ethenodeoxyguanosine, pyrimido[1,2-a]purin-10(3H)-one deoxyribose (M(1)dG), and 1,N(2)-propanodeoxyguanosine increased DNA scission approximately 5-17-fold. Enhanced cleavage did not result from an increased affinity of topoisomerase IIalpha for adducted DNA or a decreased rate of religation. Therefore, it is concluded that these exocyclic lesions act by accelerating the forward rate of enzyme-mediated DNA scission. Finally, treatment of cultured human cells with 2-chloroacetaldehyde, a reactive metabolite of vinyl chloride that generates etheno adducts, increased cellular levels of DNA cleavage by topoisomerase IIalpha. This finding suggests that type II topoisomerases interact with exocyclic DNA lesions in physiological systems.
Besides trihalomethanes (THMs) and haloacetic acids (HAAs), chloral hydrate (CH) is the next most prevalent disinfection by-product (DBP) in drinking water, formed as a result of the reaction between chlorine and natural organic matter (NOM). Chloral hydrate (trichloroacetaldehyde) should be limited in drinking water because of its adverse health effect. The controversies concerning the appearance of CH in disinfected water found in literature are discussed in the present paper. According to some authors the CH yield during chlorination of water depends only on TOC. However, there are other data available that do not confirm this relationship. Another fact requiring clarification is the dependence of CH formation on pH. In the present study, CH formation is analysed in different types of water disinfected with different doses of chlorine. Formation of CH is correlated with the dose of Cl(2) and the contact time. The formation of chloral hydrate takes place as long as chlorine is available in the water. Total organic carbon (TOC) is not considered the main factor influencing the production of chloral hydrate in water treated with Cl(2) as the production depends also on the nature of NOM. Higher levels of CH are observed at alkaline conditions (pH>7). A significant correlation (R(2)>0.9) between the concentrations of chloral hydrate and chloroform has been observed. The preozonation increases significantly the chloral hydrate formation potential in the water treated. Biofiltration process does not remove all of CH precursors and its efficiency depends strongly on the contact time. Chloral hydrate was analyzed by gas chromatography with electron capture detector with the detection limit 0.1 microg L(-1).
Direct UV photolysis of trichloroethylene (TCE) in dilute aqueous solution generated chloride ions as a major end product and several reaction intermediates, such as formic acid, di- and monochloroacetic acids, glyoxylic acid, and, to a lesser extent, mono- and dichloroacetylene, formaldehyde, dichloroacetaldehyde, and oxalic acid. Under prolonged irradiation, these byproducts underwent photolysis, and a high degree of mineralization (approximately 95%) was achieved. TCE decays through the following major pathways: (1) TCE + h nu --> ClCH=C*Cl + Cl*; (2) TCE (H2O) + h nu --> ClCH(OH)-CHCl2; (3) TCE + h nu --> HC[triple bond]CCl + Cl2; (4) TCE + h nu --> ClC[triple bond]CCl + HCl; (5) TCE + Cl* --> Cl2HC-C*Cl2. A kinetic model was developed to simulate the destruction of TCE and the formation and fate of byproducts in aqueous solution under irradiation with polychromatic light. By fitting the experimental data, the quantum yields for the four photolysis steps were predicted as phi(1) = 0.13, phi(2) = 0.1, phi(3) = 0.032, and phi(4) = 0.092, respectively. The reaction mechanism proposed for the photodegradation of TCE accounts for all intermediates that were detected. The agreement between the computed and experimental patterns of TCE and reaction products is satisfactory given the complexity of the reaction mechanism and the lack of photolytic kinetic parameters that are provided in the literature.
A significant population of humans (5 to 10%) are phenotypic poor metabolizers of debrisoquine. We have isolated the cytochrome P-450 isozyme from rat liver responsible for this activity and have shown that antibodies raised against the protein are able to inhibit this catalytic activity in human liver microsomes (Distlerath, L. M., and Guengerich, F. P., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 81: 7348–7352, 1984). These antibodies were utilized to determine which metabolic transformations are linked to debrisoquine 4-hydroxylation in human liver microsomes using techniques of immunochemical inhibition. The antibodies almost completely inhibited debrisoquine 4-hydroxylation and bufuralol 1′-hydroxylation in microsomes prepared from several different human livers. The oxidation of the pyrrolizidine alkaloids lasiocarpine and monocrotaline were inhibited by roughly one-third. The antibodies did not inhibit N,N -dimethylnitrosamine N -demethylation, oxidation of vinylidene chloride to 2,2-chloroacetaldehyde, oxidation of trichloroethylene to chloral, N -oxidation of azoprocarbazine, morphine N -demethylation, diazepam N -demethylation, oxidation of benzo( a )pyrene to alkali-soluble metabolites, oxidation of benzo( a )pyrene 7,8-dihydrodiol to products covalently bound to DNA, the N - and ring-oxidation of 1- and 2-naphthylamine and 2-aminofluorene, or the conversion of aflatoxin B1 to DNA adducts or aflatoxin Q1. Studies with space-filling models of the drugs the metabolism of which is associated with debrisoquine 4-hydroxylase in the literature indicated that all can be fitted to a general structure in which a basic nitrogen is about 5 A away from the site of carbon hydroxylation and a hydrophobic domain is near the site of hydroxylation. These results may be useful in predicting which chemicals may or may not be metabolized in an atypical manner by a segment of the human population.
Dichloroethane (1,2-DCE) is a synthetic compound that is not known to be formed naturally. Nevertheless, several pure microbial cultures are able to use it as a sole carbon source for growth. Degradation of 1,2-DCE proceeds via 2-chloroethanol, chloroacetaldehyde and chloroacetate to glycolate. The genes encoding the enzymes responsible for the conversion of 1,2-DCE to glycolic acid have been isolated. The haloalkane dehalogenase and an aldehyde dehydrogenase are plasmid encoded. Two other enzymes, the alcohol dehydrogenase and the haloacid dehalogenase, are chromosomally encoded. Sequence analysis indicates that the haloacid dehalogenase belongs to the L-specific 2-chloroproprionic acid dehalogenases. From the three-dimensional structure and sequence similarities, the haloalkane dehalogenase appears to be a member of the ce//3 hydrolase fold hydrolytic enzymes, of which several are involved in the degradation of aromatic and aliphatic xenobiotic compounds.
The catabolic pathway has been resolved with Xanthobacter autotrophicus GJ10 and strains of Ancylobacteraquaticus ; Van den Wijngaard et al. 1992) , which led to the establishment of the route shown in Fig. 1 . The first step is the hydrolytic conversion of 1,2-DCE to 2-chloroethanol. This intermediate is oxidized to chloroacetaldehyde by a periplasmic alcohol dehydrogenase. Further oxidation by an NAD-dependent aldehyde dehydrogenase yields chloroacetate, which is cleaved by a second hydrolytic dehalogenase to glycolate.
2-Chloroethanol (2-CE) is a commonly used solvent in industry; unfortunately, severe hypotension is one of main toxic signs during intoxication. Calcium ion modulation is considered to be an important role of vasorelaxation. The aim of this study is to evaluate either 2-CE or its main metabolite, chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), possible cause of hypotension, by using isolated rat aortic rings. Results revealed that 2-CE caused a weakly relaxation in the phenylephrine (PE) pre-induced endothelium-intact aortic rings. However, its metabolite, CAA induced vasorelaxation and showed dose dependency in endothelium-intact and -denuded aortic rings. The half inhibitory concentration (IC 50 ) of 2-CE exceeded 50 mM; meanwhile, the IC 50 values of CAA in the endothelium-intact and -denuded aortic rings were 3.3 and 2.7 mM, respectively. The CAA-induced relaxation could be significantly attenuated by adding calcium (CaCl 2 ) and various Ca 2+ channel blockers, dantrolene, nifedipine, and NiCl 2 . Nifedipine presents the most strong inhibition effect among the calcium blockers. In conclusion, it is suggested that the hypotension effect of 2-CE intoxicated cases may be mainly mediated by its metabolite CAA, and calcium channels are partially involved inducing the vasorelaxation.
Chloroacetaldehyde, a metabolite of the anticancer drug ifosfamide, may be responsible for serious adverse effects like encephalopathy in ifosfamide chemotherapy. In this study, we demonstrate that chloroacetaldehyde, but not ifosfamide, induces cell death in human osteosarcoma Saos-2 cells and we investigated the mechanism by which this occurs. Chloroacetaldehyde above 30 μmol/l induced significant cell death in a time-dependent manner. Thiol compounds such as N-acetyl cysteine, glutathione and dithiothreitol protected the cells against chloroacetaldehyde-induced cell death, although other nonthiol compounds and the antioxidative enzymes superoxide dismutase and catalase did not, suggesting that reactive oxygen species might not mediate cell death. In cells exposed to chloroacetaldehyde, levels of both total thiols and glutathione were significantly reduced. Chloroacetaldehyde also collapsed the mitochondrial membrane potential of these cells, induced the release of cytochrome c from mitochondria to the cytosol and significantly reduced cellular ATP levels during the course of death. The mitochondrial potential collapse was also prevented by thiol compounds. Flow cytometric analyses by means of annexin-V and propidium iodide double staining and immunofluorescence staining of active caspase-3 revealed that cells subjected to a lethal dose of chloroacetaldehyde displayed features characteristic of necrosis and that caspase-3 was not activated in response to chloroacetaldehyde. Taken together, these findings suggest that Saos-2 cells exposed to chloroacetaldehyde die by necrosis resulting from a decrease in intracellular thiols, disruption of the mitochondrial membrane potential and the depletion of cellular ATP.
The promutagenic etheno DNA adducts have been detected in tissue DNA of rodents and humans from various exogenous and endogenous sources. While other etheno DNA adducts have been detected and quantified by isotope dilution gas chromatography/negative ion chemical ionization/mass spectrometry (GC/NICI/MS), similar analysis for 3,N(4)-ethenocytosine (epsilonCyt) has not been available. In this report, a GC/NICI/MS assay was developed for detection and quantification of epsilonCyt in DNA and in human urine samples. The stable isotope of epsilonCyt with 7 mass units higher than the normal epsilonCyt was synthesized and used as internal standard of the assay. The adduct-enriched fraction of DNA hydrolysate was derivatized with pentafluorobenzyl bromide before GC/NICI/MS analysis with selective ion monitoring at [M - 181](-) fragments of pentafluorobenzylated epsilonCyt and its isotope analogue. One femtogram (S/N > 40) of pentafluorobenzylated epsilonCyt was detected when injected on column with selective ion monitoring mode. The limit of quantification for the entire assay was 7.4 fmol of epsilonCyt, which was approximately one thousand times lower than that of the HPLC/fluorescence assay for the nucleoside 3,N(4)-etheno-2'-deoxycytidine in DNA. Analysis of chloroacetaldehyde-treated calf thymus DNA by both GC/NICI/MS and HPLC/fluorescence methods provided similar adduct levels and thus verified the assay. This GC/NICI/MS method was used for analysis of epsilonCyt in two smokers' urine samples and the average level of epsilonCyt was 101 +/- 17 pg/mL/g of creatinine. Thus, quantification of epsilonCyt in DNA and in urine by this highly specific and ultrasensitive isotope dilution GC/NICI/MS assay may facilitate research on the role of epsilonCyt in carcinogenesis and in cancer development.
Repeated s.c. administration of chloroethylene oxide, a reactive metabolite of the carcinogen vinyl chloride, induced local tumors in mice, with an incidence comparable to that of bis(chloromethyl)ether, a structurally related human and animal carcinogen, when both compounds were applied at maximum tolerated chronically toxic doses; no tumors distant from the injection site were produced. Bis(chloromethyl)ether, chloroethylene oxide, and its rearrangement product chloroacetaldehyde, a highly toxic compound, were further tested in an initiation-promotion experiment. Application to the skin of a single dose of either bis(chloromethyl)ether or chloroethylene oxide, followed by 3-times-weekly applications of 12-O-n-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate for 42 weeks, produced skin tumors in mice; chloroacetaldehyde under comparable conditions produced no increase in benign or malignant tumors. A good correlation between the chemical reactivity, on the basis of hydrolysis constants in aqueous media, and the carcinogenicity of the three compounds was noted. Our results support the hypothesis that epoxidation of the thylenic double bond in vinyl chloride yields an ultimate carcinogenic metabolite, chloroethylene oxide, a highly reactive compound which appears also to be largely responsible for the known genetic changes caused by the parent compound.
Abstract We characterize the 157 nm photodissociation of dichloromethane (CH 2 Cl 2 ) using photofragment translational spectroscopy, detecting the products with photoionization mass spectrometry. The major photodissociation products are Cl + CH 2 Cl and HCl + CHCl. Comparing the integrated ion signal at m/e = 35 (Cl + ) and m/e = 49 (CH 2 Cl + ) gives the partial photoionization cross section of CH 2 Cl to parent ion to be σ = 26.6 Mb at 13.7 eV. This value is a quantitative anchor point of the energy-dependent photoionization cross section. In recent work we used this result to quantify the product branching to HCO + CH 2 Cl in the photodissociation of 2-chloroacetaldehyde.
Nanostructured TiO2 with 11- (P11) and 5-nm (P5) crystal sizes were prepared by a modified sol–gel method. Controlled crystallization and a pretreatment process were employed to obtain TiO2 with different surface roughness and degree of hydroxylation, while maintaining an identical crystal (i.e., 11 or 5 nm) and aggregate (i.e., 100 nm) sizes, phase structure (i.e., anatase), and crystallinity (i.e., X-ray diffraction peak intensity). Using the photooxidation of airborne trichloroethylene as a probe reaction, we were able to identify that the hydroxyl groups on low-coordinated titanium atoms are responsible for the generation of dichloroethylene and dichloroacetaldehyde by-products. Their presence usually means lower TCE conversion and in some cases leads to catalyst deactivation.
In the past, difficulties in the determination of microbial adenylate in forest soils were due to acidity of soils and high humus content. Therefore, a method was developed that allows separation of adenylates from impurities on high-performance liquid chromatography and quantitative extraction from soil. For extraction, samples were stirred with dimethyl sulfoxide and a 0.01 M Na 3 PO 4 /0.02 M EDTA buffer (adjusted to pH 12) was added. An aliquot of soil suspension was mixed with an equal volume of nucleotide releasing reagent and then sonified. The suspension was passed through a membrane filter (45 μm). The extracts were reacted with chloroacetaldehyde at pH 3.5 to form the fluorescent 1,N 6 -etheno-derivatives for fluorometric determination. The separation of the 1,N 6 -etheno-adenylates (e-adenylates) was performed using a reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography. The adenylate derivatives were eluted on a ODS column with 0.05 M ammonium acetate, 1.0 mM EDTA and 0.4 mM tetrabutylammonium hydrogen sulfate (pH 6.3) mixed with methanol (water phase-methanol 89.5:10.5 v/v) as a mobile phase. Column temperature was set to 26-28°C. For quantitative determination, the fluorometric emission was measured at 410 nm with 280 nm as excitation wavelength. This procedure resulted in recovery rates of 91%, 91% and 93% for added AMP, ADP and ATP, respectively in acidic soils as well as in clay rich soils and organic layers. The soil microbial adenylate can be determined with an accuracy of 10%.
Thiodiacetic acid and S-(carboxymethyl)cysteine are found in the urine of rats after a 48 h exposure to 1000 ppm vinyl chloride. The structure of both compounds could be clarified by GC-MS investigations. Chloroethylene oxide, chloroacetaldehyde and chloroacetic acid are assumed to be intermediates in vinyl chloride metabolism. Compounds which can be transformed to one of these alkylating agents in vivo should also lead to renal excretion of thiodiacetic acid and S-(carboxymethyl)cysteine.
OBJECTIVE ::: Cyclophosphamide (CP) is an antineoplastic prodrug which requires bioactivation (4-hydroxylation) by the cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes in human liver. In parallel, P450-mediated side-chain oxidation (N-dealkylation) leads to the formation of the non-alkylating dechloroethylcyclophosphamide (DCI-CP) and chloroacetaldehyde, the latter being a potential neurotoxic agent. The enzyme responsible for side-chain oxidation has not been identified yet. We therefore used an in vitro approach to characterize the enzyme involved in N-dealkylation of CP. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: CP was incubated with the microsomal fraction of human liver in the presence of specific inhibitors for some P450 enzymes and in the presence of stable expressed P450 enzymes. Dechloroethylcyclophosphamide was analysed using gas chromatography and nitrogen-phosphorus detection. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Formation of DCl-CP increased linearly with substrate concentration over the entire concentration range (20 mumol.l-1 to 36 mmol.l-1). Saturation of the enzyme was not observed. Incubation with stable expressed P450 enzymes and inhibition experiments indicated that CYP3A4 was the major enzyme involved in side-chain oxidation of CP. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Our in vitro data indicate that side-chain oxidation of CP occurs in dose-dependent fashion in men with no saturation of this pathway even following dose escalation. Thus enhanced neurotoxicity following CP administration may result in the setting of high-dose chemotherapy. Moreover, we conclude that CP has the potential to interact with other CYP 3A4 substrates.
Summary We report a novel, highly sensitive and selective method for the extraction and quantification of acyl CoA esters from plant tissues. The method detects acyl CoA esters with acyl chain lengths from C4 to C20 down to concentrations as low as 6 fmol in extracts. Acyl CoA esters from standard solutions or plant extracts were derived to their fluorescent acyl etheno CoA esters in the presence of chloroacetaldehyde, separated by ion-paired reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography, and detected fluorometrically. This derivitization procedure circumvents the selectivity problems associated with previously published enzymatic methods, and methods that rely on acyl chain or thiol group modification for acyl CoA ester detection. The formation of acyl etheno CoA esters was verified by mass spectrometry, which was also used to identify unknown peaks from chromatograms of plant extracts. Using this method, we report the composition and concentration of the acyl CoA pool during lipid synthesis in maturing Brassica napus seeds and during storage lipid breakdown in 2-day-old Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings. The concentrations measured were in the 3‐6 m M range for both tissue types. We also demonstrate the utility of acyl CoA profiling in a transgenic B. napus line that has high levels of lauric acid. To our knowledge, this is the first time that reliable estimates of acyl CoA ester concentrations have been made for higher plants, and the ability to profile these metabolites provides a valuable new tool for the investigation of gene function.
The antitumor agents 5-(3,3-dimethyl-1-triazenyl)imidazole-4-carboxamide (DIC) and 5-[3,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-triazenyl]imidazole-4-carboxamide (BIC) are substrates for NADPH-requiring microsomal enzymes of mouse liver. The products of DIC oxidation are 5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide (AIC) and formaldehyde. Those for BIC are AIC and, presumably, 2-chloroacetaldehyde. For DIC, the reaction has a pH optimum of 9.0; and the Michaelis constant (Km) is 0.25 mM. At lower pH values, the Km is not greatly increased; but there is a sharp rise in the Km values above pH 9.0. For the enzyme-catalyzed production of AIC from BIC, the pH optimum is 7.5; the Km value for BIC is 0.47 mM. Of a variety of tissues tested for enzymatic activity, only liver accomplishes the conversion of DIC and BIC to AIC. Most of the activity in the liver is located in the microsomal fraction, although detectable activity is present in washed mitochondria. For liver microsomes, the rate of reaction for BIC is greater than that for DIC, but apparently neither rate is fast enough to allow extensive metabolism of large doses of these agents.
The metabolism of the chlorinated ethylenes may be explained by the formation of chloroethylene epoxides as the first intermediate products. The evidence indicates that these epoxides rearrange with migration of chlorine to form chloroacetaldehydes and chloroacetyl chlorides. Thus, monochloroacetic acid, chloral hydrate, and trichloroacetic acid have been found in reaction mixtures of 1,1-dichloroethylene, trichloroethylene, and tetrachloroethylene, respectively, with rat liver microsomal systems. Rearrangements of the chloroethylene glycols formed from the epoxides by hydration may also take place, but would appear, at least in the case of 1,1-dichloroethylene, to be quantitatively less important. The literature on the metabolism of chlorinated ethylenes and its relationship to their toxicity is reviewed.
Synthese a partir du traitement du diethylacetal de chloroacetaldehyde avec le diethylamidure de lithium dans le THF
We investigate the unimolecular dissociation of the vinoxy radical (CH2CHO) prepared with high internal energy imparted from the photodissociation of chloroacetaldehyde (CH2ClCHO) at 157 nm. Using a velocity map imaging apparatus, we measured the speed distribution of the recoiling chlorine atoms, Cl(2P3/2) and Cl(2P1/2), and derived from this the resulting distribution of kinetic energy, P(ET), imparted to the Cl + vinoxy fragments upon dissociation. Using conservation of energy, the distribution of kinetic energy was used to determine the total internal energy distribution in the radical. The P(ET) derived for the C–Cl bond fission presented in this work suggests the vinoxy radicals are mostly formed in the A state. We also took ion images at m/z = 42 and m/z = 15 to characterize the branching between the unimolecular dissociation channels of the vinoxy radical to H + ketene and methyl + CO products. Our results show a marked change in the branching ratio between the two channels from the previous study...
Coenzyme Q (CoQ) is an essential component of the mitochondrial electron transport chain and serves as an electron donor and acceptor in mitochondrial energy-linked respiration. CoQ1 was shown to prevent ROS formation and cell death in complex 1 inhibited cells. Low concentrations of capsaicin like CoQ1 inhibited ROS formation but CoQ1 was more effective at restoring the mitochondrial membrane potential collapse caused by complex 1 inhibitors such as rotenone. At low concentrations, capsaicin acts as a CoQ mimic by protecting against rotenone induced ROS formation and mitochondrial membrane potential collapse. Lipid peroxidation in isolated rat hepatocytes induced by cumene hydroperoxide and chloroacetaldehyde was also prevented. At higher concentrations, capsaicin and CoQ1 became cytotoxic. Hep G2 cells were more susceptible than hepatocytes. The cytotoxic mechanism for both capsaicin and CoQ1 was shown to involve a collapse of the mitochondrial membrane potential, however, only capsaicin caused ROS formation. The capsaicin side chain was required for capsaicin induced cytotoxicity. The anticancer properties of CoQ1 and capsaicin should prove useful for inducing tumor cell apoptosis.
Dichloroacetaldehyde and 2,2-dichloro-1,1-dihydroxy-ethanephosphonic acid methyl ester which are formed solvolytically from desmethyltrichlorphone, an in vivo metabolite of the organophosphorus pesticide Trichlorphone, show in the dominant lethal test in mice at equimolar dosage (1.6 mmol/kg) a mutagenic activity comparable with that of Trichlorphon. Therefore it cannot be ruled out that the genetic effects of this pesticide may be due in part to the action of its degradation products.
Abstract When a mixture of vinyl chloride/oxygen or vinyl bromide/air was passed through a mouse-liver microsomal system, volatile alkylating metabolites were trapped by reaction with excess 4-(4-nitrobenzyl)pyridine. The absorption spectra of the adducts, either from vinyl bromide or vinyl chloride, were identical with that obtained by reaction of chloroethylene oxide with 4-(4-nitrobenzyl) pyridine. Chloroethylene oxide decomposes in aqueous solution with a half-life of 1.6 minutes. After reaction of chloroethylene oxide and 2-chloroacetaldehyde with adenosine and Sephadex chromatography the binding products were compared with those formed in the presence of vinyl chloride, mouse-liver microsomes and adenosine. A common product of these reactions was tentatively characterized as 3-β-ribofuranosyl-imidazo-[2,1- i ]purine.
Pseudomonas sp. GJ1 is able to grow with 2- chloroethanol as the sole carbon and energy source, but not with 2-bromoethanol, which is toxic at low concentra- tions (1 mM). A mutant that could grow on 2-bro- moethanol with a growth rate of 0.034 h -1 at concentra- tions up to 5 mM was isolated and designated strain GJ1M9. Measurement of enzyme activities showed that mutant and wild-type strains contained a PMS-linked alco- hol dehydrogenase that was active with halogenated alco- hols and that was threefold overexpressed in the mutant when grown on 2-chloroethanol, but only slightly overpro- duced when grown on 2-bromoethanol. Both strains also contained an NAD-dependent alcohol dehydrogenase that had no activity with halogenated alcohols. Haloacetate de- halogenase levels were similar in the wild-type and the mutant. Activities of NAD-dependent aldehyde dehydro- genase were only slightly higher in extracts of the mutant grown with 2-bromoethanol than in those of the wild-type grown with 2-chloroethanol. SDS-PAGE, however, showed that this enzyme amounted to more than 50% of the total cellular protein in extracts of the mutant from 2-bromoethanol-grown cells, which was fourfold higher than in extracts of the wild-type strain grown on 2- chloroethanol. The enzyme was purified and shown to be a tetrameric protein consisting of subunits of 55 kDa. The enzyme had low Km values for acetaldehyde and other non-halogenated aldehydes (0.8-4 μM), but much higher Km values for chloroacetaldehyde (1.7 mM) and bromo- acetaldehyde (10.5 mM), while Vmax values were similar for halogenated and non-halogenated aldehydes. Cultures that were pregrown on 2-chloroethanol rapidly lost alde- hyde dehydrogenase activity after addition of 2-bromo- ethanol and chloroamphenicol, which indicates that bro- moacetaldehyde inactivates the enzyme. To achieve growth with 2-bromoethanol, the high expression of the enzyme thus appears to be necessary in order to compensate for the high Km for bromoacetaldehyde and for inactivation of the enzyme by bromoacetaldehyde.
The binding of the recA gene product from E. coli to double-stranded and single-stranded nucleic acids has been investigated by following the change in melting temperature of duplex DNA and the fluorescence of single-stranded DNA or poly(dA) modified by reaction with chloroacetaldehyde. At low ionic strength, in the absence of Mg2+ ions, RecA protein binds preferentially to duplex DNA or poly(dA-dT). This leads to an increase of the DNA melting temperature. Stabilization of duplex DNA decreases when ionic strength or pH increases. In the presence of Mg2+ ions, preferential binding to single-stranded polynucleotides is observed. Precipitation occurs when duplex DNA begins to melt in the presence of RecA protein. From competition experiments, different single-stranded and double-stranded polydeoxynucleotides can be ranked according to their ability to bind RecA protein. Structural changes induced in nucleic acids upon RecA binding are discussed together with conformational changes induced in RecA protein upon magnesium binding.
Four novel derivatives of 2-amino-9-(β-D-ribofuranosyl)purine (1) were synthesised and fully characterised. When 1 was reacted with chloroacetaldehyde (a), 2-chloropropanal (b), bromomalonaldehyde (c) and a mixture of chloroacetaldehyde + malonaldehyde (d), 3-(β-D-ribofuranosyl)-imidazo-[1,2a]purine (2), 3-(β-D-ribofuranosyl)-5-methylimidazo-[1,2a]purine (3), 3-(β-D-ribofuranosyl)-5-formylimidazo-[1,2a]purine (4) and 9-(β-D-ribofuranosyl)-2-(3,5-diformyl-4-methyl-1,4-dihydro-1-pyridyl)purine (5) were formed, respectively. The products were isolated, purified by chromatography and characterised by MS, complete NMR assignment as well as fluorescence and UV spectroscopy. The yields of these reactions were moderate (14–20%). The fluorescence properties differed from those of the starting compound and the quantum yields were considerably lower.
Abstract Dichlorvos (DDVP) is an organophosphorus pesticide that has been classified as highly hazardous chemical by the World Health organization. In this study, the fate of the pesticide DDVP in natural water compartments was examined under simulated sunlight. Moreover, the effect of UV-254 irradiation on DDVP depletion was also studied. In deionized water, DDVP was photodegraded only in the presence of dissolved molecular oxygen. The photodegradation during the first 6 h of sunlight irradiation occurred with pseudo first-order kinetics, and the rate constants were 0.040 h−1 at pH 7 and 0.064 h−1 at pH 3. A reaction mechanism for the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) via DDVP photoabsorption was proposed. Humic acids (HA) played a double role as photosensitizer and inhibitor, observing an enhancement on DDVP photodegradation at low HA concentration (TOC = 2 mg L−1). The depletion of DDVP under 254 nm UV irradiation was ascribed to direct photodegradation and oxygen mediated photoinduced reactions. Direct photodegradation of DDVP decreased with 254 nm irradiation reduction, highlighting the importance of radical mediated mechanisms at low irradiation doses. Based on LC/MS data, the main photoproducts under simulated solar light and UV-C irradiation were identified and potential reaction pathways were postulated. The three main identified products were o-methyl 2,2-dichlorovinyl phosphate, dichloroacetaldehyde and dimethylphosphate. Moreover, the toxicity of samples was evaluated along the irradiation exposure time using Microtox® assays. This study brings new insights into the role of oxygen in the photodegradation of DDVP and the induced and inhibition mechanisms involved in the presence of the humic acids in natural waters.
Chloral (trichloroacetaldehyde), the major metabolite of trichloroethylene (TCE), was investigated for its potential to form DNA-protein cross-links (DPX), a lesion produced by other aldehydes. Chloral did not form DPX in rat liver nuclei at concentrations up to 250 mM for 30 min at 37 degrees C, while chloroacetaldehyde (47 mM) and acetaldehyde (200 mM) did form cross-links. Experiments with the aldehyde-trapping reagents thiosemicarbazide and semicarbazide showed that chloral did not react, in contrast with aldehydes that form DPX. This indicates a very strong hydration of chloral. Mice given 800 mg/kg [14C]chloral after pretreatment with 1500 mg/kg TCE for 10 days had no detectable covalent binding of 14C to DNA in the liver. These results do not support a genotoxic theory of carcinogenesis for TCE mediated through chloral.
HOOI is a hydroperoxy-derivative of ifosfamide (IFOS) and a pro-drug of isophosphoramide mustard (IPM) [the active metabolite of IFOS] – a bi-functional alkylator that cross-links with G/C DNA base sequences resulting in irreparable inter-strand DNA cross-linking and cell death. HOOI has been an unstable laboratory curiosity for years; however, HOOI.L-lysine is a stable salt complex that has allowed the development of HOOI for clinical trials. HOOI spontaneously releases acrolein and chloroacetaldehyde in situ in cancer cells not extracellular in the general circulation (as does IFOS) and has not been associated with cystitis, renal tubular necrosis and/or CNS toxicity. HOOI has been screened in 20+ human xenograft tumor and murine tumor models and has significantly improved %ILS in intracranially implanted human xenografts – MX-1, U251; ZR-75-1 and in P399/CPA leukemia vs. IFOS and IPM. The U251 data (%ILS – 84+) is impressive considering – BCNU produced a 72% ILS. The ZR-75-1 breast cancer had a %ILS – 83. Bone marrow failure was the DLT in mice – LD10 100 mg/kg (for M/F). Dogs (M/F) were treated with 10, 15, 20 and 30 mg/kg. For both sexes, the LD10 was calculated to be 17.2, while the LD50 was calculated to be 17.3 mg/kg. PK values in dogs revealed the following profile for groups dosed with 30 mg/kg: AUC0- t = 1.53 (mg h/L), T1/2α = 0.93 (h), T1/2β = 6.1 (h) & CL = 19.5 (L/ h) [a two compartment model]. The AUC was linear for the 10 and 30 mg/kg doses. HOOI did not generate any detectable plasma chloroacetaldehyde vs. IFOS (2.12 µg/mL from 400 mg/kg) and 25% of the acrolein generated by the MTD of CPA & IFOS. No convulsions, neuropathies or renal dysfunction were observed in either specie. Unlike IFOS/IPM, HOOI is lipophilic, activated intracellular (with Citation Format: {Authors}. {Abstract title} [abstract]. In: Proceedings of the 102nd Annual Meeting of the American Association for Cancer Research; 2011 Apr 2-6; Orlando, FL. Philadelphia (PA): AACR; Cancer Res 2011;71(8 Suppl):Abstract nr 3222. doi:10.1158/1538-7445.AM2011-3222
ABSTRACT: We investigate the unimolecular dissociation of the vinoxy radical (CH 2 CHO) prepared with high internal energy imparted from the photodissociation of chloroacetaldehyde (CH 2 ClCHO) at 157 nm. Using a velocity map imaging apparatus, we measured the speed distribution of the recoiling chlorine atoms, Cl( 2 P 3/2 ) and Cl( 2 P 1/2 ), and derived from this the resulting distribution of kinetic energy, P(E T ), imparted to the Cl + vinoxy fragments upon dissociation. Using conservation of energy, the distribution of kinetic energy was used to determine the total internal energy distribution in the radical. The P(E T ) derived for the C−Cl bond fission presented in this work suggests the vinoxy radicals are mostly formed in the Ãstate. We also took ion images at m/z = 42 and m/z = 15 to characterize the branching between the unimolecular dissociation channels of the vinoxy radical to H + ketene and methyl + CO products. Our results show a marked change in the branching ratio between the two channels from the previous study on the photodissociation of chloroacetaldehyde at 193 nm by Miller et al. (J. Chem. Phys., 2004, 121, 1830 in that the production of ketene is now favored over the production of methyl. To help analyze the data, we developed a model for the branching between the two channels that takes into account how the change in rotational energy en route to the products affects the vibrational energy available to surmount the barriers to the channels. The model predicts the portion of the C−Cl bond fission P(E T ) that produces dissociative vinoxy radicals, then predicts the branching ratio between the H + ketene and CH 3 + CO product channels at each E T . The model uses Rice− Ramsperger−Kassel−Marcus rate constants at the correct sums and densities of vibrational states while accounting for angular momentum conservation. We find that the predicted portion of the P(E T ) that produces H + ketene products best fits the experimental portion (that we derive by taking advantage of conservation of momentum) if we use a barrier height for the H + ketene channel that is 4.0 ± 0.5 kcal/mol higher than the isomerization barrier en route to CH 3 + CO products. Using the G4 computed isomerization barrier of 40.6 kcal/mol, this gives an experimentally determined barrier to the H + ketene channel of 44.6 kcal/mol. From these calculations, we also predict the branching ratio between the H + ketene and methyl + CO channels to be ∼2.1:1.
The various adverse biological effects of vinyl chloride appear to be dependent upon the metabolic conversion of this compound into chemically reactive metabolites. The metabolism of vinyl chloride in mammals and in man, including the formation of monochloroacetic acid and some identified sulfur conjugates is reviewed. Hepatic microsomal mixed function oxidases from rats, mice, and humans were equally effective in transforming vinyl chloride into alkylating agents in vitro. Two of the enzyme reaction products, i.e., chloroethylene oxide and 2-chloroacetaldehyde, showed potent genetic activity in microorganisms and Chinese hamster V79 cells. The role of liver microsomal enzymes in the generation of electrophilic mutagenic vinyl chloride metabolites is discussed.
Chronic low-level exposure to the environmental pollutant trichloroethylene has been shown to promote autoimmune disease in association with CD4(+) T-lymphocyte activation in lupus-prone MRL(+/+) mice. One of the primary metabolites of trichloroethylene, trichloroacetaldehyde hydrate (TCAH), was similarly shown to increase the percentage of IFNgamma-producing CD4(+) T-lymphocytes when added to the drinking water of MRL(+/+) mice. In addition, TCAH-treated MRL(+/+) mice developed skin inflammation and alopecia. In the present study TCAH was tested for its ability to accelerate the development of alopecia in C3H/HeJ mice which tend to develop the disorder spontaneously late in life. In contrast to MRL(+/+) mice, C3H/HeJ mice treated with TCAH did not develop alopecia at an increased rate. In addition, TCAH did not promote the expansion of activated IFNgamma-producing CD4(+) T-lymphocytes in C3H/HeJ mice. CD4(+) T-lymphocytes from TCAH-treated C3H/HeJ mice, unlike their MRL(+/+) counterparts, did not become resistant to activation-induced apoptosis following in vivo exposure to TCAH. Taken together, it appears that the ability of TCAH to promote immune-mediated pathology is strain-specific and may require an autoimmune-prone genetic background.
The invention belongs to the field of organic synthesis, and particularly relates to a synthesis method for 6-chloroimidazo[1,2-b] pyridazine. The synthesis method for 6-chloroimidazo[1,2-b] pyridazine comprises the following steps: reacting 3-amino-6-chloro-pyridazine with a chloroacetaldehyde aqueous solution for 2-24 hours at 25-80 DEG C to prepare 6-chloroimidazo[1,2-b] pyridazine. By using the synthesis method disclosed by the invention for preparing 6-chloroimidazo[1,2-b] pyridazine, the reaction conditions are moderate and the operation is easy; and moreover, the product is stable in quality and high in purity.
The initial metabolism of ifosfamide (IFO) consists of two different pathways, which lead to the alkylating metabolite 4-hydroxy-IFO and to chloroacetaldehyde (CAA). CAA has been reported to cause side effects, such as neuro- and nephrotoxicity, whereas no direct antitumor effect has been described thus far. Therefore, two human tumor cell lines (MXI and S117) and a renal tubular cell line (Landa Leiden) were exposed to 4-hydroxy-IFO, CAA, and a combination of both. The concentrations used were in the same range as measured in the blood of 10 patients treated with 5 g/m2 IFO. The cell survival was measured using the MTT assay. Similar dose-response curves were found for both metabolites. For the MX1 tumor, the IC50s of 4-hydroxy-IFO and CAA were 10.8 and 8.6 microM, respectively. For the reduction of S117 cell survival, higher concentrations of the metabolites were needed (25.0 microM 4-hydroxy-IFO and 15.3 microM CAA). Combination treatment of the cells resulted in an approximately additive effect. Both metabolites exhibited similar toxicity against Landa Leiden cells. Our results indicate that CAA has its own cytotoxic profile against tumor cells. Hence, we conclude that the molecular mechanism of action of IFO seems to be only in part an alkylating effect and that CAA may play an important role in the therapeutic efficacy of IFO.
Abstract Methods are described for the detection of amines as vapors and in solution. The lower limit of detection of diethylamine or triethylamine vapors by drawing the vapor through a detector tube containing silica gel impregnated with dichloroacetaldehyde and then heating is 25 μg. As low as 1 μg of the same amines can be detected In aqueous solution by the degradation of a chloral-dichloroacetaldehyde copolymer. Detection signal in the latter case is the appearance of fluorescence when liberated monomer dissolves a 2-diphenylacetyl-1,3-indandione derivative.
The use of chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) as a potential precolumn fluorimetric labelling reagent for adenine compounds was examined in detail. The reaction kinetics was greatly influenced by parameters such as the pH, temperature and CAA concentration. These parameters were optimized with regard to the reaction yield. The resulting procedure for CAA derivatization of adenine compounds was found to be excellent for quantitative analysis. Because the CAA derivatives of the adenine compounds studied were markedly stable, precise quantitative results were easily obtained using high-performance liquid chromatography. CAA derivatives of the five adenine compounds, i.e., 1,N6-etheno-adenine, -adenosine, -adenosine 5′-monophosphate, -adenosine 5′-diphosphate and -adenosine 5′-triphosphate were separated. The detection limits for the 1,N6-etheno derivatives were 0.5—1.7 pmol per 10-μl injection. Due to its simplicity, speed, sensitivity and selectivity, this procedure is recommended for use in studies on the metabolism and biology of adenine compounds.
Abstract DNA damage is ubiquitous and can arise from endogenous or exogenous sources. DNA-damaging alkylating agents are present in environmental toxicants as well as in cancer chemotherapy drugs and are a constant threat, which can lead to mutations or cell death. All organisms have multiple DNA repair and DNA damage tolerance pathways to resist the potentially negative effects of exposure to alkylating agents. In bacteria, many of the genes in these pathways are regulated as part of the SOS reponse or the adaptive response. In this work, we probed the cellular responses to the alkylating agents chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), which is a metabolite of 1,2-dichloroethane used to produce polyvinyl chloride, and styrene oxide (SO), a major metabolite of styrene used in the production of polystyrene and other polymers. Vinyl chloride and styrene are produced on an industrial scale of billions of kilograms annually and thus have a high potential for environmental exposure. To identify stress response genes in E. coli that are responsible for tolerance to the reactive metabolites CAA and SO, we used libraries of transcriptional reporters and gene deletion strains. In response to both alkylating agents, genes associated with several different stress pathways were upregulated, including protein, membrane, and oxidative stress, as well as DNA damage. E. coli strains lacking genes involved in base excision repair and nucleotide excision repair were sensitive to SO, whereas strains lacking recA and the SOS gene ybfE were sensitive to both alkylating agents tested. This work indicates the varied systems involved in cellular responses to alkylating agents, and highlights the specific DNA repair genes involved in the responses.
1.Unlike cell lines and primary cells in culture, precision-cut tissue slices remain metabolically differentiated for at least 24-48 h and allow to study the effect of xenobiotics during short-term and long-term incubations. 2.In this article, we illustrate the use of such an experimental model to study the nephrotoxic effects of (i) chloroacetaldehyde, a metabolite of the anticancer drug ifosfamide, (ii) of cobalt chloride, a potential leakage product of the cobalt-containing nanoparticles, and (iii) of valproate, a widely used antiepileptic drug. 3.Since all the latter test compounds, like many toxic compounds, negatively interact with cellular metabolic pathways, we also illustrate our biochemical toxicology approach in which we used not only enzymatic but also carbon 13 NMR measurements and mathematical modelling of metabolic pathways. 4.This original approach, which can be applied to any tissue, allows to predict the nephrotoxic effects of milligram amounts of test compounds very early during the research and development processes of drugs and chemicals. This approach, combined with the use of cells that retain their in vivo metabolic properties and, therefore, are predictive, reduces the risk, the time and cost of such processes.
Abstract A sensitive (1 ng ml −1 ) liquid chromatographic method with fluorescence detection is described for the determination of arprinocid and analogous compounds in human plasma. The method is based on chemical derivatization with chloroacetaldehyde to form highly fluorescent derivatives. Extraction of the drug from plasma and separation of the derivative from the reaction mixture are accomplished by solid-phase extraction with two silica cartridges. The effects of pH, solvent, and concentration of the reagents on the efficiency of derivatization were studied. The assay in plasma was validated in the 1–50 ng ml −1 range. The fluorescent derivatives were synthesized and fully characterized. The derivatives were also found to be efficient as energy acceptors in the oxalate ester/hydrogen peroxide chemiluminescent system.
Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT) was used to prepare copolymers of dA and 1,N6-ethenodeoxyadenosine (epsilon dA). When used as templates for Escherichia coli DNA polymerase I (Pol I) and compared with poly (dA), normal dTTP incorporation was not significantly affected by the presence of 7% epsilon dA. dGTP misincorporation was only slightly increased and occurred about once for every 500 epsilon dA residues. The error-prone polymerase from avian myeloblastosis virus (AMV reverse transcriptase) increased this error rate 5- to 20-fold to a maximum of 1 dG/25 epsilon dA. No dCTP misincorporation was detected with either polymerase. In transcription with E. coli DNA-dependent RNA polymerase, no errors were revealed by nearest neighbor analysis. Poly (dA) treated with chloroacetaldehyde under conditions producing the same proportion of epsilon dA (without the hydrated form) as the synthesized template behaved in the same manner with a similar low level of misincorporation of dG. Such treatment of alternating poly d(A-T) caused structural changes indicative of crosslinks but did not alter its template properties. Increasing the amount of epsilon dA in either synthesized or modified polymers greatly decreased the template activity without increasing the error rate. It is suggested that epsilon dA generally does not prevent dT incorporation but behaves as a bulky lesion which is bypassed. In contrast to the low mutagenic efficiency of epsilon dA, O4-methyldeoxythymidine (m4dT), in copolymers with dA, directed the misincorporation of 1 dG/12 m4dT with Pol I and 1 dG/3 m4dT with reverse transcriptase. Nearest neighbor analysis of transcripts showed the incorporation of 1 dG/12 m4dT. These data are in agreement with the previous reported mutagenicity of m4dT in alternating poly d(A-T, m4T).
A sensitive precolumn derivatization method has been developed to measure the 5'-triphosphate of 2'-beta-fluoro-2',3'-dideoxyadenosine (F-ddA, lodenosine), a new anti-HIV drug, in human lymphocytes by HPLC using fluorescence detection. Reaction of chloroacetaldehyde with F-ddA triphosphate in extracts from human lymphocytes produces a highly fluorescent etheno adduct. This derivative is then separated and quantitated by reverse-phase paired-ion chromatography. Degradation of natural nucleic acid ribosides, such as ATP, using periodate oxidation simplifies the chromatogram and minimizes interference with detection of the target analyte. This method, modeled using cultured MOLT-4 T-lymphocytes, achieves a linear detector response for peak area measurements over the range 2.5 to 22.5 pmol (50-450 nM using 50 microl sample). Analyte recovery is greater than 90%, and the method achieves a limit of detection and limit of quantitation of 1.4 and 2.5 pmol per HPLC injection (50 microl sample containing cellular extract from 2.5 x 10(6) cells), respectively. Application of this method to measure F-ddATP in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from HIV-infected patients treated with F-ddA at 3.2 mg/kg twice daily for 22 days shows F-ddATP levels which range from 1.5 to 3.5 pmol/10(6) cells.
(Methylcarbamoyl)triazenes have been shown to be effective cancer chemotherapeutic agents in a number of biological systems. Because of their chemical stability, it is likely that their activity in vivo is the result of a metabolic activation process. Previous studies have shown that 1-(2-chloroethyl)-3-methyl-3-(methylcarbamoyl)triazene (CMM) and 1-(2-chloroethyl)-3-benzyl-3-(methylcarbamoyl)triazene (CBzM) are metabolized by rat liver microsomes in the presence of NADPH to yield the ((hydroxymethyl)carbamoyl)triazene analogs of the parent compounds. The present studies show that both compounds are also oxidized at the chloroethyl substituent to yield chloroacetaldehyde and a substituted urea. In the case of CBzM metabolism, 47% of the metabolized parent compound was recovered as benzylmethylurea, 8% was recovered as benzylurea, and 26% was recovered as the ((hydroxymethyl)carbamoyl)triazene and carbamoyltriazene metabolites. These results suggest that the chloroethyl group is the favored initial site of...
Ifosfamide is metabolized to 4-hydroxyifosfamide, chloroacetaldehyde, and acrolein, all reactive metabolites that have been demonstrated to induce oxidative stress by depleting lymphocytes glutathione.
PURPOSE ::: To characterise the pharmacokinetics and metabolism in mice of 5-[N,N-bis(2-chloroethyl)amino]-2,4-dinitrobenzamide (SN 23862), the lead compound of a new class of bioreductive drugs in which a nitrogen mustard is activated by nitroreduction. Comparison is made with the corresponding aziridine derivative CB 1954. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Male C3H/HeN mice, bearing s.c. KHT tumours, received 3H-labelled SN 23862 or CB 1954 i.v. at 200 micromol/kg. Plasma, urine and tumour samples were assayed for total radioactivity, and for parent compounds by HPLC. Metabolites were identified by 1H-NMR and mass spectrometry. Cytotoxicity of compounds against Chinese hamster AA8 cells was determined by growth inhibition assay. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: The plasma pharmacokinetics of SN 23862 and CB 1954 were similar, with half-lives of 1.1 and 1.2 h, respectively. SN 23862 provided tumour/plasma ratios and absolute tumour AUC values almost two times higher than CB 1954. Despite this, SN 23862 was more extensively metabolised than CB 1954, the major route being sequential oxidative dechloroethylation of the nitrogen mustard moiety to the relatively non-toxic half mustard and 5-amine. The inferred chloroacetaldehyde co-product was 260 times more potent than SN 23862. A tetrahydroquinoxaline metabolite resulting from reduction of the 4-nitro group followed by intramolecular alkylation was weakly cytotoxic, while the more cytotoxic 2-amino derivative of SN 23862 was detected in trace amounts. CB 1954 was metabolised by analogous pathways, but the 4- and 2-amine nitroreduction products were the major metabolites while oxidative dealkylation was minor. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: The lesser propensity for SN 23862 to undergo nitroreduction in the host, relative to CB 1954, argues that dinitrobenzamide mustards may be preferable to the corresponding aziridines as bioreductive prodrugs for cancer treatment. However, the toxicological significance of oxidative metabolism of the bis(2-chloroethyl)amine moiety needs to be addressed.
AbstractThe title compounds, rac-(2R*,3R*)-S-ethyl-4-chloro-3-hydroxy-2-phenylbuthanethioate (I) and rac-(2R*,3R*)-S-ethyl-2-phenyl-3-(tosyloxy)buthanethioate (III), are both composed of a S-ethyl 2-phenylbutanethioate moiety but have different geometries. Compound I is substituted in the 3 and 4 positions by a hydroxyl group and a chlorine atom, respectively. In compound III the hydroxyl group in the 3 position of rac-(2R*,3R*)-S-ethyl-3-hydroxy-2-phenylbuthanethioate (II), has been tosylated in order to obtain suitable crystals for X-ray analysis. In compound I the phenyl substituent and the hydroxyl group have a syn arrangement, whereas in the tosylate derivative of II, i.e., compound III, they have an anti arrangement. In the crystal structure of I centrosymmetric hydrogen bonded dimers are formed via O-H···O hydrogen bonds, involving the hydroxyl group and the carbonyl O-atom. In the crystal structure of III symmetry related molecules are connect via a weak C-H···O intermolecular interaction, involving a tosylate O-atom and a phenyl H-atom, so forming zigzag chains propagating in the c direction. The compounds were prepared by the Mukaiyama crossed aldol reaction between the silyl enol ether of S-ethyl 2-phenylethanethioate and simple aldehydes, like 2-chloroacetaldehyde (for I) and acetaldehyde (for II). The syn/anti stereo descriptors clearly indicate that the stereoselectivity of the Mukaiyama aldol reaction has switched from a syn selective process for the reaction using 2-chloroacetaldehyde to an anti selective process for the reaction with acetaldehyde. In both compounds the relative stereochemistry at the newly created chiral centers, positions 2 and 3, is R/R.Graphical AbstractThe compounds, rac-(2R*,3R*)-S-ethyl-4-chloro-3-hydroxy-2-phenylbuthanethioate (I) and rac-(2R*,3R*)-S-ethyl-3-hydroxy-2-phenylbuthanethioate (II), were prepared by the Mukaiyama crossed aldol reaction between the silyl enol ether of S-ethyl 2-phenylethanethioate and simple aldehydes, like 2-chloroacetaldehyde (for I) and acetaldehyde (for II). The stereoselectivity of the Mukaiyama aldol reaction was shown to have switched from a syn selective process for the reaction using 2-chloroacetaldehyde to an anti selective process for the reaction with acetaldehyde.[IMAGE]
The Raman spectrum of gaseous trichloroacetaldehyde (chloral) has been recorded from 20 to 3200 cm−1. A series of three transitions (83, 76, 69 cm−1) has been observed for the low frequency torsional mode. The barrier to internal rotation has been calculated to have a value of 1.17 kcal mol−1 (409 cm−1) in the gaseous phase. This value is compared to the corresponding quantity in similar molecules.
1,2-Dichloroethane, also known as ethylene dichloride, can be found in air, water, and soil; it is produced by volcanoes and forest fires. Drinking, breathing, and eating are the prime routes of human exposure. It is used as a general anesthetic instead of chloroform, especially in ophthalmic surgery. Crude oil and gasoline are sources of 1,2-dichloroethane; therefore, automobile exhaust serves as a prolific emitter of this compound. It leaks into the water and soil from faulty underground fuel storage tanks, spills, or factory releases. Indoor air and tobacco smoke are also major sources of concerns. Besides gasoline, it is used in Styrofoam, polyvinyl chloride, plastics, nylon, rubber, lubricants, dyes, and pesticides production. It is a colorless liquid with a chloroform-like odor and is genotoxic in multiple test systems via multiple routes of exposure. It is a central nervous system (CNS) depressant that produces symptoms ranging from nausea, vomiting, headache, lightheadedness, and weakness to stupor, disequilibrium, coma, and respiratory arrest. High-level exposure leads to severe CNS signs ultimately leading to oliguria and hepatic transaminasemia and occasionally hepatorenal failure. Ingestions can be damaging to kidney, liver, and adrenal gland as well as the gastrointestinal tract. Severe hepatorenal toxicity is often associated with hypoglycemia, hypercalcemia, hypoprothrombinemia, reduced clotting factors, adrenal necrosis, and gastrointestinal hemorrhage and leads to a bluish-purple discoloration of the skin, dermatitis, and corneal abrasions. The US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has enforced the maximum contaminant level (MCL) goal for this compound to be ‘zero’ in drinking water to prevent potential health problems. EPA's permissible MCL has been set to 0.005 mg l −1 or 5 ppb. MCLs are set as close to the health goals as possible, considering cost, benefits, and the ability of public water systems to detect and remove contaminants using suitable treatment technologies. Two distinct pathways metabolize 1,2-dichloroethane: (1) saturable microsomal oxidation by cytochrome P450, producing 2-chloroacetaldehyde and 2-chloroethanol followed by conjugation with glutathione; (2) direct conjugation with glutathione to form S -(2-chloroethyl)-glutathione, which may be nonenzymatically converted to a glutathione episulfonium ion (a DNA-adduct-forming ion) responsible for gene mutations and chromosomal aberrations. It has been detected in the breast milk of women occupationally exposed via inhalation and dermal contact. The lethal oral dose of 1,2-dichloroethane in humans has been estimated to be between 20 and 50 ml. The LD 50 doses of orally administered 1,2-dichloroethane have been determined to be 800–1000 mg kg −1 for mice and 600–900 mg kg −1 for rats. Based on the induction of several tumor types in rats and mice treated by gavage and lung papillomas in mice after topical application, 1,2-dichloroethane has been classified as a probable human carcinogen (Category B2).
Prodrugs cyclophosphamide and ifosfamide are each ‘activated’ through a P450 oxidation at the C-4 position of the oxazaphosphorine ring. This reaction triggers a series of spontaneous (non-enzymatic) steps resulting in the formation of the ultimate DNA crosslinking agents, phosphoramide mustard and isophosphoramide mustard. Competing with reaction at C-4 are P450-catalyzed oxidations at the alpha positions of the chloroethyl side-chains; reactions at the side chains result in the production of the neurotoxic chloroacetaldehyde. Predominance of one pathway over another is isozyme-dependent and of greatest impact in ifosfamide therapy where about 50% of this drug is lost to side-chain oxidation (relative to an average of 10% for cyclophosphamide) and dose-limiting neurotoxicity. In this project, deuterium isotope effects are being explored as a means to effect ‘metabolic switching’ in the oxidations of cyclophosphamide and ifosfamide; that is, favoring oxidation at the C-4 position by disfavoring oxidations at the side chains. Cyclophosphamide and ifosfamide were synthesized with deuterium at the alpha and alpha’ positions of the chloroethyl chains. After optimizing reaction times, drug and enzyme concentrations, cyclophosphamide and ifosfamide (unlabeled and labeled) were incubated (20 min) with three, relevant, cDNA-expressed supersomes (human CYP2B6, CYP3A4, CYP3A5). The concentration of each metabolite produced by C-4 and the two possible side-chain oxidations was measured quantitatively using LC-MS-MS techniques developed for this project. For unlabeled cyclophosphamide, the fraction of products derived from C-4 oxidation was 73% (3A4), 90% (3A5) and 100% (2B6). Use of deuterium labeled cyclophosphamide gave 89% (3A4), 94% (3A5) and 100% (2B6); the amount of product produced by 2B6 and labeled drug was more than twice that given by unlabeled drug (56 micromoles versus 23 micromoles, respectively). For unlabeled ifosfamide, the fraction of products given by C-4 oxidation was 63% (3A4), 55% (3A5) and 36% (2B6). Use of deuterium labeled ifosfamide gave 82% (3A4), 75% (3A5) and 88% (2B6). Aside from the initial oxidation, the metabolic steps most likely to be impacted by deuterium isotope effects are those of the alkylation sequence by the metabolites phosphoramide mustard and isophosphoramide mustard. To determine the effect, if any, phosphoramide mustard and isophosphoramide mustard are being synthesized with deuterium at the alpha and alpha’ positions of the chloroethyl chains and their alkylation kinetics, relative to unlabeled compounds are being determined using 31 P NMR spectroscopy. Citation Format: {Authors}. {Abstract title} [abstract]. In: Proceedings of the 103rd Annual Meeting of the American Association for Cancer Research; 2012 Mar 31-Apr 4; Chicago, IL. Philadelphia (PA): AACR; Cancer Res 2012;72(8 Suppl):Abstract nr 4766. doi:1538-7445.AM2012-4766
Smog chamber/GC techniques were used to investigate the atmospheric degradation of two unsaturated alcohols, 1-penten-3-ol and (Z)-2-penten-1-ol, by oxidation with chlorine atoms at atmospheric pressure of N(2) or air, as a function of temperature. The rate coefficients at 298 K were (units in cm(3) molecule(-1) s(-1)): (2.35 ± 0.31) × 10(-10) and (3.00 ± 0.49) × 10(-10) for 1-penten-3-ol and (Z)-2-penten-1-ol, respectively. The identified and quantified gas-phase products (with molar yields in brackets) were carbonyl compounds such as chloroacetaldehyde (33 ± 1%), propionaldehyde (39 ± 1%), acetaldehyde (8 ± 3%) and 1-penten-3-one (2%) from 1-penten-3-ol; and chlorobutyraldehyde (19 ± 1%), propionaldehyde (27 ± 1%), acetaldehyde (18 ± 2%) and (Z)-2-pentenal (36 ± 1%) from (Z)-2-penten-1-ol. A parallel theoretical study at the QCISD(T)6-311G**//MP2/6-311G** level was carried out to facilitate understanding of the reaction mechanism. Both the theoretical and experimental studies indicated that addition of Cl to the double bond of the unsaturated alcohol is the dominant reaction pathway, although the H-abstraction channel cannot be excluded. The atmospheric lifetimes of those unsaturated alcohols were calculated and the results are discussed.
Chloroethylene oxide and chloroacetaldehyde, reactive intermediates derived from vinyl chloride, and the epoxy-hydroxy-alkanals, produced endogenously in the metabolism of polyunsaturated fatty acids, react with nucleic acid bases in DNA to form exocyclic etheno derivatives of 2'-deoxyadenosine, 2'-deoxyguanosine, and 2'-deoxycytidine. This paper describes an efficient method for the synthesis of the exocyclic 1,N(2)-etheno adduct of 2'-deoxyguanosine and its incorporation into DNA oligomers using automated synthesis techniques. The synthesis was initiated by a high-yield alkylation of N(2)-protected 2'-deoxyguanosine at the 1-position with 1,2-diacetoxy-3-bromopropane. The product was converted to the 5'-O-dimethoxytrityl-3'-O-phosphoramidite using published techniques and incorporated site specifically into DNA oligomers with 99% coupling efficiency. Ring closure to yield the 6-hydroxyethano derivative was accomplished by oxidation with sodium periodate, and facile dehydration then afforded DNA oligomers containing 1,N(2)-etheno-2'-deoxyguanosine. All oligomers were characterized fully by physicochemical methods.
The method of modification of heterocyclic bases of nucleic acids with chloroacetaldehyde and other α-halo carbonyl compounds is examined in this review. The mechanism, kinetics, and scope of the reaction, the chemical properties of modified derivatives of adenine and cytosine, and the possibilities of the application of etheno derivatives of adenine and cytosine in biochemistry and molecular biology are discussed.
The title compounds, rac-(2R*,3R*)-S-ethyl-4chloro-3-hydroxy-2-phenylbuthanethioate (I) and rac-(2R*,3R*)-S-ethyl-2-phenyl-3-(tosyloxy)buthanethioate (III), are both composed of a S-ethyl 2-phenylbutanethioate moiety but have different geometries. Compound I is substituted in the 3 and 4 positions by a hydroxyl group and a chlorine atom, respectively. In compound III the hydroxyl group in the 3 position of rac-(2R*,3R*)-S-ethyl-3-hydroxy-2-phenylbuthanethioate (II), has been tosylated in order to obtain suitable crystals for X-ray analysis. In compound I the phenyl substituent and the hydroxyl group have a syn arrangement, whereas in the tosylate derivative of II, i.e., compound III, they have an anti arrangement. In the crystal structure of I centrosymmetric hydrogen bonded dimers are formed via O-HÁÁÁO hydrogen bonds, involving the hydroxyl group and the carbonyl O-atom. In the crystal structure of III symmetry related molecules are connect via a weak C-HÁÁÁO intermolecular interaction, involving a tosylate O-atom and a phenyl H-atom, so forming zigzag chains propagating in the c direction. The compounds were prepared by the Mukaiyama crossed aldol reaction between the silyl enol ether of S-ethyl 2-phenylethanethioate and simple aldehydes, like 2-chloroacetaldehyde (for I) and acetaldehyde (for II). The syn/anti stereo descriptors clearly indicate that the stereoselectivity of the Mukaiyama aldol reaction has switched from a syn selective process for the reaction using 2-chloroacetaldehyde to an anti selective process for the reaction with acetaldehyde. In both compounds the relative stereochemistry at the newly created chiral centers, positions 2 and 3, is R/R.
The crystal structure of (-)-Rhazinilam and of a t-butoxycarbonyl derivative, have been reported recently [5] . We have been exploring the scope and applicability of a pyrrole synthesis based on the two step sequence Mukaiyama cross-aldol reaction [6] , followed by the Staudinger reaction [7, 8] . To assemble the key elements, we have studied the Mukaiyama crossed aldol reaction between the silyl enol ether of S-ethyl 2-phenylethanethioate and simple aldehydes, like 2-chloroacetaldehyde (Scheme 1) and acetaldehyde (Scheme 2). This modified version allowed us to obtain the condensation products needed for our planed Rhazinilam synthesis in reasonably good yields, whereas the use of the silyl enol ether of 2-phenylacetaldehyde has only lead to the formation of polymers [9] .
Escherichia coli AlkB is another example of an enzyme processing DNA alkylation damages by direct reversal. AlkB belongs to the superfamily of 2-oxoglutarate (2OG) and iron (Fe(II)) dependent dioxygenases [6] and is found to remove alkyl groups from DNA by a hydroxylation reaction that utilizes oxygen, 2OG and Fe(II) to produce carbon dioxide, succinate and an aldehyde residue. Preferred substrates are 1-methyladenine (1meA) and 3-methylcytosine (3meC) [7, 8] which are lesions that impede Watson-Crick base pairing, thereby blocking replication and transcription -processes that are crucial for cell survival. Hence, E. coli cells lacking AlkB are sensitive toward the alkylating agent methyl methanesulfonate (MMS) [9] . Furthermore, removal of the structurally analogous lesions 1-methylguanine and 3-methylthymine by AlkB has also been observed [10, 11] , as well as removal of the bulkier exocyclic etheno adducts 1,N 6 -ethenoadenine (A) and 3,N 4 -ethenocytosine (C) [12, 13] . Etheno adducts can be generated through the reaction of DNA with the vinyl chloride metabolite chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) and have been shown to be extremely mutagenic and toxic, consequently linked to human diseases such as chronic inflammation-associated colon cancer, lung adenocarcinoma and degenerative disorders [14] [15] [16] . In addition to acting on DNA damages, E. coli AlkB also displays activity on methylated RNA [17] .
Chlorination of paraldehyde gave chloroacetaldehydes which were treated with concd sulfuric acid to afford cyclic trimer (3) of chloroacetaldehyde (CA). Depolymerization of 3 yielded pure CA satisfactory.
New high-pressure liquid chromatographic methods for determining concentrations of arabinosyladenine (Ara-A), its 5'-monophosphate (Ara-AMP), and arabinosylhypoxanthine (Ara-H) in plasma and urine are presented. A fluorescence detector is used for Ara-A and Ara-AMP, which are first converted to highly fluorescent derivatives with chloroacetaldehyde. This increases sensitivity greatly over previous methods. The sensitivities of the methods (in micrograms per milliliter) are as follows: in plasma, Ara-AMP, 0.002; Ara-A, 0.0015; and Ara-H, 0.35; and in urine, 9 times these values, respectively. Drug concentration data are also presented, which were obtained after doses of Ara-AMP were given intramuscularly to two patients treated with this drug for severe herpes zoster. One patient was given 13 mg of Ara-AMP per kg of body weight once daily, and the other was given 6.5 mg/kg twice daily. Peak Ara-AMP and Ara-A levels in plasma occurred within 1 h after the doses, and neither exceeded 2 micrograms/ml. Ara-AMP and Ara-A concentrations in plasma fell to less than 0.01 micrograms/ml in both patients by 4 to 6 h after the doses. Peak Ara-H concentrations in plasma occurred within 1 to 2 h after doses and were 21 micrograms/ml in patient 1 and 2. The highest concentration of Ara-AMP in urine was 0.09 micrograms/ml. The highest Ara-A concentration in urine was 62 micrograms/ml, and the highest Ara-H concentration in urine was 1,080 micrograms/ml. An interfering substance of unknown nature, cochromatographing with Ara-H, was encountered sporadically in urine samples. An algorithm based on differential spectrophotometry to identify and correct for this problem is described. Estimates of the renal clearances of Ara-AMP, Ara-A, and Ara-H are also given.
The reaction of chloroacetaldehyde, a reactive metabolic of the carcinogen vinyl chloride, with DNA produces in addition to the hitherto known adducts, 1,N6-ethenoadenine and 3,N4-ethenocytosine, an ethenoguanine adduct, namely N2,3-ethenoguanine. This adduct is formed in the reaction of chloroacetaldehyde with the free base as well. After DNA hydrolysis followed by isolation of this new adduct by h.p.l.c., its mass spectrum and fluorescence spectrum are identical with those published in the literature for the chemically synthesized N2,3-ethenoguanine. The formation of only this guanine derivative out of several theoretically possible reaction products allows the formulation of a reaction scheme. The absence of 7-(2-oxoethyl)-guanine, another recently detected DNa adduct of vinyl chloride, in chloroacetaldehyde-treated DNA suggests its origin from the other reactive metabolic of vinyl chloride, chloroethylene oxide. The potential of N2,3-ethenoguanine to lead to misincorporation of deoxythymidine monophosphate opposite of guanine and the high fluorescence of this adduct provide it with potentially high biological significance and ease of analytical monitoring.
Abstract The conformational profiles for rotation around the CC(O) bond α and the energy minimum conformations are calculated for propionaldehyde 1 , chloroacetaldehyde 2 , and 2-chloropropionaldehyde 3 at MP2/6-31G(d)//HF/6-31G(d). The energy level of the LUMO is calculated as a function of α for 1 , 2 , and 3 and discussed in relationship to the Felkin-Anh model.
An efficient and practical procedure was developed to prepare novel imidazo[1,2-a][1,3,5]triazines and 3,4-dihydroimidazo[1,2-a][1,3,5]triazines with a good regioselectivity and high yields, starting from dicyandiamide and the corresponding arylamines. Mechanistic studies for the subsequent cyclocondensation with chloroacetaldehyde support a pathway, which begins with the displacement of the chloro atom activated by an adjacent CO group, followed by cyclization and dehydration.
Summary Following the oral administration of 3 to 12 g of trichloroethylene to calves weighing about 100 lb, about 1% of this compound was excreted in the urine as trichloroacetic acid and from 13 to 25% as trichloro-ethanol (free and combined). Only traces of trichloroethylene were excreted in the urine. No trichloroacetaldehyde could be demonstrated in the urine with the method used. Some of the metabolic products of trichloroethylene in the bovine are the same as those produced by man and dogs.
Abstract Nephrotoxicity is a limiting factor in the use of ifosfamide in children. Despite the co-administration of uroprotective agents such as sodium 2-mercaptoethanesulfonate (mesna), ifosfamide chemotherapy is associated with nephropathy characterized by glomerular toxicity and Fanconi syndrome in many children treated with this drug. This is in distinction to cyclophosphamide, an analogue which differs solely by the position of a chloroethyl group, and which is not associated with nephrotoxicity. We hypothesized that ifosfamide is metabolized by cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes located in the renal tubular cell to the toxic metabolite chloroacetaldehyde; and, that the higher production of chloroacetaldehyde from ifosfamide than from cyclophosphamide explains the clinical differences in nephrotoxicity. We found that in both pig renal cortical microsomes and whole human kidney microsomes incubated with 1 mM ifosfamide for 3 hr, 2 and 3 dechloroethylifosfamide (DCEI) were produced.Our study provides evidence that porcine and human kidney microsomes are capable of biotransforming ifosfamide to DCEI metabolites that are produced in equimolar amounts with chloroacetaldehyde, indicating that chloroacetaldehyde is locally produced by renal cells as a possible mechanism for nephrotoxicity.
The gas phase pyrolysis of trichlorfon was investigated by the on-line gas chromatography – mass spectrometry (GC-MS) pyrolysis and theoretical calculations. Two reaction channels were proposed in the pyrolytic reaction, by analyzing the detected pyrolytic products in the total ion chromatography, including 2,2,2-trichloroacetaldehyde, dimethyl phosphite, and dichlorvos. Theoretical calculations showed that there is an intramolecular hydrogen bond between the hydroxyl group and the phosphate O atom in trichlorfon, through which the hydroxyl H atom can be easily transferred to phosphate O atom to trigger two pyrolytic channels. In path-a, migration of H atom results in direct decomposition of trichlorfon to give 2,2,2-trichloroacetaldehyde and dimethyl phosphite in one step. In path-b, migration of H atom in trichlorfon is combined with formation of the O-P bond to give an intermediate, followed by HCl elimination to afford dichlorvos. Path-a is kinetically more favorable than path-b, which is consistent with the GC-MS results.
[621-62-5] C6H13ClO2 (MW 152.62) ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: InChI = 1S/C6H13ClO2/c1-3-8-6(5-7)9-4-2/h6H,3-5H2,1-2H3 ::: ::: ::: ::: InChIKey = OVXJWSYBABKZMD-UHFFFAOYSA-N ::: ::: ::: ::: (versatile two-carbon synthon; forms carbocycles,4 heterocycles;14-18 used in the synthesis of alkynes1, 2 and alkenes3, 5, 6) ::: ::: ::: ::: Alternate Names: 1-chloro-2,2-diethoxyethane; chloroacetaldehyde diethyl acetal. ::: ::: ::: ::: Physical Data: colorless liquid, bp 151 °C; d 1.018 g cm−3. ::: ::: ::: ::: Solubility: sol most organic solvents. ::: ::: ::: ::: Form Supplied in: neat liquid of high purity; readily available. ::: ::: ::: ::: Handling, Storage, and Precautions: flammable, moisture sensitive. Use in a fume hood.
Pyrimidine nucleosides were treated with chloroethylene oxide (CEO) and 2-chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) in methanol and, following trimethylsilylation, the products were analysed by combined gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). Reaction of CEO with 2'-deoxycytidine gave 3,N4-etheno-2'-deoxycytidine and diadduct isomers in which a 1-hydroxy-2-chloroethyl group was substituted for hydrogen on either deoxyribose hydroxyl group. When the N-3-position of 2'-deoxycytidine was blocked by a methyl group, CEO or CAA added a 2-chlorovinyl group at the exocyclic N4 amino nitrogen, as evidenced by a pair of cis/trans isomers. Reaction of 3-methylcytidine and CEO also gave the cis/trans 2-chlorovinyl base adducts, as well as six isomers with a 1-hydroxy-2-chloroethyl group attached to ribose and nine isomeric diadducts, which are possibly positional and optical isomers. Although CEO and CAA were less reactive towards uracil in 3-methyluridine than to cytosine in 3-methyl(deoxy)-cytidine, both electrophiles were able to alkylate 3-methyluridine on ribose, yielding 1-hydroxy-2-chloroethyl derivatives. These data suggest that CEO and CAA may also yield non-cyclic adducts with cytosine in double-stranded DNA where the N-3 position is of low accessibility. Such adducts are of interest in view of their potential promutagenic properties. The data also imply a new mechanism of reaction of CEO with nucleophiles.
Chloroacetaldehyde, the stable metabolite of the human carcinogen vinyl chloride, forms interstrand cross-links in vitro in salmon sperm DNA and in the alternating copolymer, poly(deoxyadenylate-deoxythymidylate) [poly(dA-dT)]. Formation of the cross-link was a function of both time of reaction and concentration of chloroacetaldehyde. Cross-linking in chloroacetaldehyde-treated poly(dA-dT) was detected initially by changes in renaturation hysteresis [Singer et al., Carcinogenesis (Lond.), 5: 1165-1171, 1984]. This has been confirmed and quantitated using the relative fluorescence of ethidium bromide after denaturation and reannealing at 40 degrees C. Three percent cross-linking was detected after 10 min reaction with 20 mM chloroacetaldehyde at 24 degrees C. In DNA the relative fluorescence of ethidium bromide after denaturation and rapid cooling was used to estimate the number of cross-links formed. Three times as much cross-linking occurs in DNA compared to poly(dA-dT) under identical reaction conditions. The postulated structure for an interstrand cross-link in poly(dA-dT) is a hydroxyethyl bridge across the strands between the N6-amino groups of alternate adenine residues. In DNA, other amino groups in the proper configuration can be involved.
The biotransformation of CPA ( Fig. 1 ) involves a 4-hydroxylation activation step carried out by several cytochrome P450 isoforms, including 2B6, 3A4, and 2C9. Cytochrome P450 2B6 is the most important isoform in this respect, and the liver is the main organ of this ratelimiting reaction resulting in 4-hydroxy-CPA (4-OH-CPA; ref. 18) . Although activation might occur in tumor tissues, this unlikely accounts for a significant fraction of CPArelated cytotoxicity (19) . Genetic and environmental factors as well as comedications that affect cytochrome P450 activity are known to modify the antitumor effects of MTD (20) and, potentially also, LDM CPA. Interestingly, CPA in high doses is capable of inducing its own activation, which is mediated at least partially by cytochrome P 450 isoform 3A4 (CYP3A4) induction (21) . CYP3A4 is also involved in a competing side chain oxidation of CPA, which results in N-dechloroethylation and the formation of the neurotoxic metabolite chloroacetaldehyde (18) . However, the major detoxification pathway is the class 1 aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH)-mediated oxidation of aldophosphamide, the tautomer of 4-OH-CPA (18, 22) . Consequently, increased intratumoral ALDH activity has been reported as a mechanism of resistance to CPA (23) . In other words, the activity status of ALDH and cytochrome P450 isoforms implicated in CPA metabolism could have a detrimental effect on the long-term biological effects of LDM CPA protocols. Moreover, it is likely that consequences of modified CYP3A4 activity would go beyond CPA because many other compounds used in cancer therapy (and potentially coadministered with CPA) are metabolized by CYP3A4 (18, 24, 25) .
The gas phase pyrolysis of trichlorfon was investigated by the on-line gas chromatographymass spectrometry (GC-MS) pyrolysis and theoretical calculations. Two reaction channels were proposed in the pyrolytic reaction, by analyzing the detected pyrolytic products in the total ion chromatography, including 2,2,2-trichloroacetaldehyde, dimethyl phosphite, and dichlorvos. Theoretical calculations showed that there is an intramolecular hydrogen bond between the hydroxyl group and the phosphate O atom in trichlorfon, through which the hydroxyl H atom can be easily transferred to phosphate O atom to trigger two pyrolytic channels. In path-a, migration of H atom results in direct decomposition of trichlorfon to give 2,2,2-trichloroacetaldehyde and dimethyl phosphite in one step. In path-b, migration of H atom in trichlorfon is combined with formation of the O-P bond to give an intermediate, followed by HCl elimination to afford dichlorvos. Path-a is kinetically more favorable than pathb, which is consistent with the GC-MS results.
Based on a principle,which trichloroacetaldehyde in water formed chloral hydrate and then the chloral hydrate with OH-was decomposed into chloroform and formate in alkaline solution,concentration of formic acid was measured by ion chromatography to calculate trichloroacetaldehyde concentration in the water sample.Linearity of calibration curve of the method was good,detection limits 0.007 mg/L,upper limits of concentration 100 mg/L,RSD of replicate samples of standard solution 3%,spiked recovery 99.7%.The method was suitable for determination of trichloroacetaldehyde in water which did not contain formic acid.
A sensitive method was developed for the simultaneous determination of six adenyl purines in human plasma by high-performance liquid chromatography. The adenyl purines (adenine, adenosine, AMP, ADP, ATP and cyclic AMP) were derivatized using 2-chloroacetaldehyde for fluorescence detection, and the reaction and separation conditions were reinvestigated to improve sensitivity for small volume sample analysis. Each derivatized purine was separated on a Capcell Pack SG120A™ column with mobile phase consisting of 0.05 M citric acid–0.1 M dipotassium hydrogen phosphate (pH 4.0)–methanol (97+3). The detection limits were 100–1000 fmol/ml by fluorescence detection, some 500 times better than previous reports. The proposed method was applied to determine adenyl purines in human plasma. The purine levels were as follows: ATP (9.2–22.2 pmol/ml), ADP (5.5–22.2 pmol/ml), AMP (0.8–3.2 pmol/ml). Other purines, adenine, adenosine, cAMP were lower than 0.1 pmol/ml.
A convergent, practical, and efficient synthesis of 2‘,6-difluoro-5‘-[3-(1-hydroxy-1-methylethyl)imidazo[1,2-b][1,2,4]triazin-7-yl]biphenyl-2-carbonitrile (1), an orally active GABAA α2/3-selective agonist, is described. The seven-step, chromatography-free synthesis was demonstrated on a multi-kilogram scale and utilized biaryl bromide 6 and imidazotriazine 22 as key intermediates. Biaryl bromide 6 was prepared via a highly selective aromatic bromination. The regioselective condensation of aminotriazine 15 with chloroacetaldehyde provided the desired imidazotriazine intermediate 22. A highly regioselective palladium-catalyzed arylation in the final step highlights the efficiency of the route.
Several 6-substituted thieno[2,3-d]pyrimidine-2,4(1H,3H)-dione derivatives were synthesized. 6-Ethoxycarbonyl derivatives 3 and 7 were prepared by treatment of 6-chloro-5-formyluracil 1 and 6-chloro-5-cyanouracil 6 with ethyl 2-mercaptoacetate in the presence of a base. Electrophilic substitution reactions (Vilsmeier-Haack reaction, bromination, and nitration) of 5,6-unsubstituted thieno[2,3-d]pyrimidine 9, prepared by condensation of 6-mercaptouracil 8 with chloroacetaldehyde, afforded the corresponding 6-formyl-, 6-bromo-, and 6-nitrothieno[2,3-d]pyrimidines 10, 15 and 16, respectively.
PURPOSE ::: The release of adenosine by the ischemic retina may be an initial signal in the development of ischemic macular edema and neovascularization. The levels of adenosine have never been quantified in ocular fluids. In this study, a technique was developed for in vivo measurement of the concentration of adenosine in aqueous and vitreous. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Aqueous and vitreous samples were obtained from bovine eyes after death and from live porcine eyes with the subject under general anesthesia. Samples from live eyes were immediately incubated in the sampling syringe with pentoxifylline, erythro-9-(2-hydroxy-3-nonyl) adenine, and dipyridamole to prevent synthesis or degradation of adenosine during the collection procedure, filtered, and flash-frozen in liquid nitrogen. All samples were then filtered and purified on phenylboronate agarose columns and incubated with chloroacetaldehyde to convert the adenosine present in the sample to the fluorescent derivative 1,N6-ethenoadenosine. The 1,N6-ethenoadenosine was separated by high-pressure liquid chromatography and then measured by fluorometry. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Levels of adenosine as low as 0.5 pmole could be detected with this procedure, compared with 20 pmoles by UV detection. By using this technique to measure adenosine levels in the eyes of normal weanling domestic pigs, it was determined that the adenosine concentration in the aqueous was 321.3 +/- 164.9 nM and in the vitreous was 210.8 +/- 41.5 nM. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: The conversion of adenine-containing compounds to fluorescent 1,N6-etheno derivatives offers analytical advantages of selectivity and sensitivity for the quantitative determination of these compounds, with the fluorometric detection providing substantially greater sensitivity than direct detection by UV absorption. The levels obtained in vivo from anesthetized but otherwise healthy pigs presumably reflected basal aqueous and vitreous adenosine levels under the described conditions. This method should be useful in investigating more directly the role of adenosine in models of retinal or ocular ischemia in vivo and in measuring adenosine levels in vitreous or aqueous samples from human patients.
The polymerizations of the novel 2-(chlorinated methyl)-4-methylene-1,3-dioxolanes derived from mono-, di-, and trichloroacetaldehyde were investigated. Poly-2-trichloromethyl-4-methylene-1,3-dioxolane was of particular interest because of its high hydrolytic stability and nonflammability. The monomers could be polymerized with cationic catalysts via the methylene functions without cleavage of the dioxolane rings. This selectivity was due to the acetal-stabilizing negative substituents and to the use of Lewis acid complexes of low reactivity as catalysts. In contrast to previously reported poly-4-methylene-1,3-dioxolanes, the title polymers were high-melting colorless solids of good to excellent fire resistance.
Thecis- andtrans-1,3-dichloropropene isomers are widely used as an insecticide fumigant in a variety of commercial formulations such as D-D,® Vidden D,® Telone,® Telone II,® and Telone C17.® In order to investigate their atmospheric lifetimes and reaction mechanisms, kinetic and product data have been obtained at room temperature for the gas phase reactions of part-per-million (ppm) concentrations ofcis- andtrans-1,3-dichloropropene with O3 and with OH radicals in Teflon chambers. In addition, rate constants for OH radical and O3 reactions with 1,2-dichloropropane and 3-chloro-2-chloromethyl-1-propene have been determined. The products observed by FT-IR analyses from the reaction of O3 with the two 1,3-dichloropropene isomers were formyl chloride and chloroacetaldehyde, together with chloroacetic acid, HCl, CO, CO2, and formic acid. The products observed from the reaction of OH radicals with the 1,3-dichloropropene isomers were formyl chloride and chloroacetaldehyde, with unit yields. The kinetic data allow atmospheric lifetimes to be estimated for the four halogenated organic chemicals studied and, together with literature data, permit the estimation of atmospheric lifetimes for other halogenated organic compounds for which no experimental data are available. The reaction pathways and atmospheric lifetimes of these widely employed chemicals are discussed.
Abstract 3-Aminopyridine 1, N 6 -ethenoadenine dinucleotide phosphate (ϵ-AADP) was synthesized from 3-aminopyridine adenine dinucleotide phosphate by reaction with chloroacetaldehyde. The reaction was monitored by high-pressure liquid chromatography. The product, ϵ-AADP, was purified by ion-exchange chromatography followed by a Sephadex G-10 desalting process. Spectrophotometric and fluorimetric properties of ϵ-AADP were obtained at neutral pH. Diazotization of ϵ-AADP was documented by azodye formation at pH values below 3 and the diazotized derivative was shown to react rapidly with sulfhydryl compounds at neutrality. As an analog of NADP, ϵ-AADP was demonstrated to be an effective NADP-competitive inhibitor of NADP-requiring dehydrogenases, reductases, and an NAD glycohydrolase.
The photochlorination of ethanol, n-butanol, and benzoic acid (organics which react slowly or not at all with chlorine thermally) is studied. The main reaction products for ethanol are acetic acid and acetaldehyde. Only minor quantities of chlorinated products such as 2-chloroethanol and 2-chloroacetaldehyde are produced in the reaction because hydroxyl radicals and chlorine atoms preferentially attack the hydroxyl carbon in ethanol. For n-butanol and benzoic acid, a large number and quantity of chlorinated organics are produced by the reaction chlorinated organics can be produced photochemically by sunlight in waters being disinfected with chlorine
Abstract ::: We have previously described a very sensitive and efficient bacterial test designed to detect chemical carcinogens as mutagens. Chloroacetaldehyde is mutagenic in this system and is of interest because it is a possible metabolite in mammals of the large volume industrial chemicals 1,2-dichloroethane (ethylene dichloride) (3.5 billion kg/yr, U.S.) and vinyl chloride (2.5 billion kg/yr, U.S.), and of the antineoplastic agent cyclophosphamide. Chloroacetaldehyde reverts a new Salmonella bacterial tester strain (TA100). Chloroacetaldehyde is shown to be hundreds of times more effective in reversion of TA100 than is chloroethanol (ethylene chlorohydrin), a known metabolic precursor of chloroacetaldehyde and a possible metabolite of dichloroethane and vinyl chloride, or than vinyl chloride, which is itself mutagenic for TA100. Chloroethanol is shown to be activated by rat (or human) liver homogenates to a more highly mutagenic form with reversion properties similar to chloroacetaldehyde. Reversion properties of cyclophosphamide after in vitro metabolic activation suggest that chloroacetaldehyde is not the active mutagenic form of this antineoplastic drug.
Proceedings: AACR 104th Annual Meeting 2013; Apr 6-10, 2013; Washington, DC ::: ::: Oxazaphosphorines are alkylating antineoplasic agents used in the treatment of cancer and have demonstrated activity against various tumor types, such as soft tissue sarcomas or lymphomas. Oxazaphosphorines are non-toxic prodrugs that require cytochrome P450 (CYP) bioactivation. In the case of Ifosfamide (IFO), the bioactivation produces the 4-OH-IFO, which after ring opening liberates the active nitrogen mustard displaying DNA cross-links. Associated toxicities of IFO are due to 1) acrolein, an urotoxic metabolite concomitantly generated with the nitrogen mustard and 2) chloroacetaldehyde, a neuro and nephrotoxic metabolite obtained by oxidation of the side chains (Kerbusch et al., 2001). ::: ::: To circumvent these toxicities, we have designed pre-activated oxazaphosphorines through electrochemical oxidation and binding of various moieties such as O-alkyl groups and S-alkyl groups. IFO is activated by oxidation of position 4 with labile moieties leading to pre-activated cytotoxic entities. We observed physical-chemical characteristics leading to nano-assemblies depending on the length of the linked moieties, which could bring tissue specificity for drug delivery purposes. Some of these pre-activated prodrugs may be constitutive of drug delivery systems, such as nanoparticules, aiming to address alkylating moieties to their target. ::: ::: We present here the use of different length moieties, from C1 (methoxy) to C30 (Squalenoyl, SQ) with intermediate length of C5 (Pentoxy) and C10 (Geranioxy and DimethylOctanoxy). These compounds are pre-activated formulation of IFO with C4-oxidation allowing to by-pass the CYP activation with direct release of 4-OH-IFO and then the alkylating mustard. Some of them, SQ-(O)-IFO, SQ-(S)-IFO and Geranioxy-IFO are able to self-assembly leading to nanoparticules. The length and nature of the engrafted moieties allow the study of the parameters that lead the kinetics of liberation of the activated compound. ::: ::: The nanoparticules have been fully characterized with a mean diameter of 182 nm for SQ-(O)-IFO and SQ-(S)-IFO and 130 nm for Geranioxy-IFO. The cytotoxic activity of SQ-(O)-IFO and SQ-(S)-IFO has been studied in vitro on a panel of 15 human and murine cancer lines (RMS-1, RD, TC71, A673, SK-N-MC, UW 479, Lan-5, SAOS-2, IGR-OV1, MCF-7(MDR), A549, M109, KB 3.1, B16F10, MiaPaCa-2). The cytotoxic activity of Pentoxy-IFO, Geranioxy-IFO and DimethylOctanoxy-IFO has been studied in vitro on a panel of 2 human cancer lines (A673 and RMS-1). All IFO derivatives present high in vitro activity while IFO has no activity on these cells. This proves the pre-activated property of these new compounds and the lack of CYP activation requirements. Their therapeutic activity is currently studied in vivo on human Ewing sarcoma TC71 and human Lung cancer A549 xenografts in mice after i.v. administration. These compounds are now patented. ::: ::: Citation Format: Charles Skarbek, Hubert Chapuis, Lea Lesueur, Michael Rivard, Thierry Martens, Didier Desmaele, Estelle Daudigeos-Dubus, Jean-Remi Bertrand, Alain Deroussent, Gilles Vassal, Patrick Couvreur, Angelo Paci. Enhanced activity of pre-activated oxazaphosphorine prodrugs designed for drug delivery strategy: influence of the length of the engrafted group. [abstract]. In: Proceedings of the 104th Annual Meeting of the American Association for Cancer Research; 2013 Apr 6-10; Washington, DC. Philadelphia (PA): AACR; Cancer Res 2013;73(8 Suppl):Abstract nr 5671. doi:10.1158/1538-7445.AM2013-5671
The elimination of chlorinated volatile organic compounds from wastewater has been one of the most important environmental concerns in recent years [1] . 1,2-DCE is one of the most important chlorinated volatile organic compounds and is widely used in industries as solvents, dry cleaners, degreasers, and chemical intermediates in the production of synthetic resins, plastics, and pharmaceuticals [2] . It is a manufactured chemical that is not found naturally in the environment. It is a toxic, volatile, flammable, colorless liquid with a chloroform-like odor [3] . 1,2-DCE has good solubility in water (8.7 g/l), a low sorption coefficient (log k oc = 1.28) and a low Henry coefficient (1.1 × 10 -3 atm m 3 /mol), therefore it remains in the water phase in normal environmental conditions [4] . It is determined to be a probable human carcinogen because of the conversion into chloroacetaldehyde, which is considered to have mutagenic properties and has been listed as a priority pollutant by the U.S. EPA. The maximum contamination level (MCL) for 1,2-DCE in the drinking water is set as 5 µg/L and the maximum contaminant level goal (MCLG) is set as zero by U.S. EPA [3] .
ABSTRACT We have previously described a very sensitive and efficient bacteria] test designed to detect chemical carcinogens as mutagens. Chloroacetaldehyde is mutagenic in this system and is of interest because it is a possible metabolite in mammals of the large volume industrial chemicals 1,2dichloroethane (ethylene dichloride)(3.5 billion kg/ yr, U.S.) and vinyl chloride (2.5 billion kg/yr, U.S.), and of the antineoplastic agent cyclophosphamide. Chloroacetaldehyde reverts a new Salmoneira bacterial tester strain (TAlOO). Chloroacetaldehyde is shown to be hundreds of times more effective in reversion of TA100 than is chloroethanol (ethylene chlorohydrin), a known metabolic precursor of chloroacetaldehyde and a possible metabolite of dichloroethane and vinyl chloride, or than vinyl chloride, which is itself mutagenic for TAIOO. Chloroethanol is shown to be activated by rat (or human) liver homogenates to a more highly mutagenic form with reversion properties similar to chloroacetaldehyde. Reversion jwperties of cyclophosphamide after in vitro metabolic activation suggest that chloroacetaldehyde is not the active mutagenic form of this antineoplastic drug. We have previously described a rapid, sensitive bacterial test designed to detect chemical carcinogens as mutagens (1-7). The test utilizes a special set of histidine mutants of Salmonella typhimurium for reversion, and a rat (or human) microsomal system for metabolic conversion of carcinogens to their active forms. The standard bacterial tester strains have been described in detail (1, 3, 5) and contain histidine missense (TA1535) or frameshift (TA1537, TA1538) mutations. The strains also contain uvrB and rfa (deep rough) mutations which greatly increase their sensitivity to reversion by a variety of carcinogens: uvrB causes loss of the excision repair system and rfa causes loss of the lipopolysaccharide permeability barrier. The compound to be tested, the bacterial tester strain, and when required rat (or human) liver microsomal enzymes, are combined on a petri dish and after incubation at 370 for 2 days histidine revertants are scored.
Chloroacetaldehyde. A compound of unusual interest that was positive on the new strain TA100 was chloroacetaldehyde. Fig. 1A shows that, at the levels tested, chloroacetaldehyde is quite effective in reverting TA100, but does not revert TA1535. [We find at higher concentrations a slight activity of chloroacetaldehyde in reverting TA1535; weak activity has been found independently (14-17).] Chloroacetaldehyde is relatively specific for TA100, and does not significantly revert the other R factor tester strain, TA98 (TA1538 containing the pKM101 plasmid), or our other standard tester strains.
We originally tested chloroacetaldehyde because of its known unique reactions with nucleotides, which have been extensively studied in connection with its use as a fluorescent label (18) (19) (20) (21) . It is known to react specifically with the N-1 and N6 nitrogens of adenosine and the N-3 and N4 nitrogens of cytidine to form a highly fluorescent cyclic derivative. It has been used extensively for fluorescent labeling of a variety of adenine and cytosine containing compounds, including single-stranded DNA. The mutagenic activity of chloroacetaldehyde reported here strongly suggests it can also react with chromosomal DNA, possibly at exposed singlestranded regions such as the replication fork, or in regions of the DNA undergoing recombinational repair.
Chloroacetaldehyde has also become of interest recently as a possible metabolic product of the large volume industrial chemical, and human carcinogen vinyl chloride (15) (16) (17) (22) (23) (24) (25) . It is also a possible active metabolite of several widely used chemicals and we discuss this in relation to its mutagenicity.
Trichloroethylene(TCE) is a widely-used industry solvent which has strong volatility and solubility and is ubiquitous in the environment.The epidemiology evidence showed that ever exposure to TCE may be associated with significantly increased risk of Parkinson's disease(PD).TCE can selectively cause dopaminergic neurodegeneration,which may be mediated by mitochondrial dysfunction,inflammation,oxidative stress and gathering of a-synuclein.In the mean time,trichloroacetaldehyde,one of the metabolites of TCE,can be combined with tryptamine in human body.The reaction forms a new chemical substance,1-trichloromethyl-1,2,3,4-tetrvahydro-b-carboline(TaClo),which is similar with MPTP in structure.TaClo has the ability to inhibit mitochondria complex 1 and cause damage to dopaminergic neurons.In summary,TCE may have strong relationship with the development of PD and the mechanism is still under exploration.
Cyclophosphamide (CP) is widely used in anticancer therapy regimens and 2-dechloroethylcyclophosphamide (DECP) is its side-chain dechloroethylated metabolite. N-dechloroethylation of CP mediated by the enzyme CYP3A4 yields nephrotoxic and neurotoxic chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) in equimolar amount to DECP. This study aimed to evaluate the inhibitory effect of ketoconazole (KTZ) on CP metabolism through in vitro and in vivo drug-drug interaction (DDI) research. Long-term treatment of KTZ induces hepatic injury; thus single doses of KTZ at low, middle, and high levels (10, 20, and 40 mg/kg) were investigated for pharmacokinetic DDI with CP. Our in vitro human liver microsome modeling approach suggested that KTZ inhibited CYP3A4 activity and then decreased DECP exposure. In addition, an UHPLC-MS/MS method for quantifying CP, DECP, and KTZ in rat plasma was developed and fully validated with a 4 min analysis coupled with a simple and reproducible one-step protein precipitation. A further in vivo pharmacokinetic study demonstrated that combination use of CP (10 mg/kg) and KTZ (10, 20, and 40 mg/kg) in rats caused a KTZ dose-dependent decrease in main parameters of DECP (Cmax, Tmax, and AUC0-∞) and provided magnitude exposure of DECP (more than a 50% AUC decrease) as a consequence of CYP3A inhibition but had only a small effect on the CP plasma concentration. Our results suggested that combination usage of a CYP3A4 inhibitor like KTZ may decrease CAA exposure and thus intervene against CAA-induced adverse effects in CP clinical treatment.
Abstract The H + -ion-catalyzed interaction of boron- and tin-containing semiclathrochelates with an excess of triethyl orthoformate resulted in the formation of the single clathrochelate product for each of these precursors. 1 H and 13 C NMR spectra indicate that the boron- and tin-containing clathrochelate products are different isomers with cis and trans orientation of ethoxy groups and semiclathrochelate fragment. The boron complexes underwent intramolecular condensation under vigorous conditions to produce a tripod capping fragment. The molecular structures of diacetylmonooxime hydrazonate [FeDXO 3 (BC 6 H 5 )(HCOC 2 H 5 ) 3 ](BF 4 ) and cyclohexanedione-1,2-monooxime hydrazonate [FeCXO 3 (BC 6 H 5 )(HCOC 2 H 5 ) 3 ](BF 4 )·1/2C 6 H 6 complexes were determined by X-ray crystallography. The iron(II) ion has a distorted trigonal prismatic coordination (twist angles ϕ = 18.2° and 10.8°, respectively) with Fe–N distances (∼1.91 A) typical for clathrochelate tris-dioximates. All ethoxy groups and the semiclathrochelate fragment are located on the same side of the 1,3,5-triazacyclohexane ring. Thus, the boron-containing compounds have the cis configuration. The tin-containing complexes are expected to have a trans configuration. Different configurations of boron- and tin-containing complexes are accounted for by essential differences in their structures obtained from Mossbauer 57 Fe spectra: the geometry of the former approaches a trigonal prism (ϕ∼10–20°), whereas that of the latter is close to trigonal antiprism (ϕ∼50°). The semiclathrochelates undergo similar reactions with the other active trifunctional agents (e.g. trichloroacetaldehyde). Cyclic voltamograms of synthesized compounds have shown the influence the degree of cyclization on redox potentials of the central iron ion.
Two new imidazo[1,2-a]pyridine derivatives, pyridinoimidazo[1,2-a]pyridine (10) and pyrroloimidazo[1,2-a]pyridine (16), were synthesised from 2-amino-4-methyl-5-nitropyridine (1) by linear cyclisation, making use of dimethylformamide dimethylacetal (DMFDMA) as an agent of vinylamine functionalisation. This report describes first the formation of pyridine and pyrroloimidazopyridine from (1), and then the formation of pyridine-fused and pyrrolo-fused pyridine by the Friedlander method and reductive cyclisation followed by treatment of the resulting adduct with chloroacetaldehyde.
Abstract Based on clinical data, indicating that chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) is an important metabolite of oxazaphosphorine cytostatics, an experimental study was carried out in order to elucidate the role of CAA in the development of hemorrhagic cystitis. The data demonstrate that CAA after i.v. administration does not contribute to bladder damage. When instilled directly into the bladder, CAA exerts urotoxic effects, it is, however, susceptible to detoxification with mesna.
Abstract Ifosfamide (IF) chemotherapy is dependent on bioactivation by cytochrome P-450 and may be limited by concurrent nephrotoxicity. An in vitro approach utilizing the renal cell lines G401, MDCK Strains I and II, LLCPK1 and OK has been adopted to study nephrotoxic actions of IF and its known metabolites, 4-hydroperoxy-ifosfamide (4-OOH-IF, 4-OH-IF in solution), chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), isofosphoramide mustard (IF-mus) and acrolein using an MTT assay. IF is virtually non-toxic to the panel of renal cell lines used; prolonged incubation with ifosfamide led to a progressive reduction in cell MTT activity only in MDCKI (days 3, 4). 4-hydroxylation of IF was directly measured in MDCK microsomes; MDCKI microsomes gave an activity of 0.045 nmol/min/mg, while in the MDCKII microsome preparation only 0.004 nmol/min/mg was detected. The limited toxicity to IF observed in MDCKI may be explained in part by the ability of cell cytosol to activate IF by 4-hydroxylation. In contrast to IF, its metabolites applied extracellularly were toxic to the panel of renal cell lines used. This cytotoxicity varied within and between cell lines. In LLCPK1 cells after 48 hr of exposure to IF metabolites, the toxicity as measured as a percentage of control MTT activity was: CAA (30 μ m ) 11±0.5%>4-OH-IF, (75 μ m ), 22.9±1.2%,>acrolein (75 μ m ), 42.0±2.9%≫IF (75 μ m ) 69.8±2.8%. The toxicity to IF-mus (exposure at 150 μ m for 48 hr) varied between cell lines, MTT activity measured as a percentage of controls gave: MDCKII 38.1±3.2>G401 41.6±1.7%>MDCKI 60.1±1.7%∼LLCPK1 62.4±2.5>OK cells 92.0±5.4%. Whereas G401 and OK cells show marked sensitivity to exposure to acrolein (75 μ m , 48 hr, 1.7±0.2%, 14.2±0.6% of control MTT, respectively), MDCKII cells are relatively insensitive to acrolein toxicity (86.5±4.2% of control MTT). In contrast to the toxicity of acrolein, G401 cells are relatively insensitive to CAA (30 μ m , 48 hr exposure, 48.4±1.7% of control MTT), while MDCKII and OK cells are markedly sensitive (MTT 8.7±0.5, 3.3±0.4% of controls, respectively). Finally, the toxicity of 4-OH-IF (75 μ m , 48 hr exposure) varied considerably between cell lines, with MTT values as a percentage of control values of: G401 3.1±0.3,>LLCPK1, 22.9±1.2%∼OK, 23.6±1.4,>MDCKI cells 43.6±0.8%.
Abstract: Cyclophosphamide (CP) is widely used in anticancer therapy regimens and 2-dechloroethylcyclophosphamide (DECP) is its side-chain dechloroethylated metabolite. N-dechloroethylation of CP mediated by the enzyme CYP3A4 yields nephrotoxic and neurotoxic chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) in equimolar amount to DECP. This study aimed to evaluate the inhibitory effect of ketoconazole (KTZ) on CP metabolism through in vitro and in vivo drug-drug interaction (DDI) research. Long-term treatment of KTZ induces hepatic injury; thus single doses of KTZ at low, middle, and high levels (10, 20, and 40 mg/kg) were investigated for pharmacokinetic DDI with CP. Our in vitro human liver microsome modeling approach suggested that KTZ inhibited CYP3A4 activity and then decreased DECP exposure. In addition, an UHPLC-MS/MS method for quantifying CP, DECP, and KTZ in rat plasma was developed and fully validated with a 4 min analysis coupled with a simple and reproducible one-step protein precipitation. A further in vivo pharmacokinetic study demonstrated that combination use of CP (10 mg/kg) and KTZ (10, 20, and 40 mg/kg) in rats caused a KTZ dose-dependent decrease in main parameters of DECP (C max , T max , and AUC 0-∞ ) and provided magnitude exposure of DECP (more than a 50% AUC decrease) as a consequence of CYP3A inhibition but had only a small effect on the CP plasma concentration. Our results suggested that combination usage of a CYP3A4 inhibitor like KTZ may decrease CAA exposure and thus intervene against CAAinduced adverse effects in CP clinical treatment.
Cyclophosphamide (CP) is an alkylating oxazaphosphorine anticancer agent routinely used in treatment of a variety of pediatric and adult tumors, such as soft tissue sarcomas and lymphomas [13, 21, 22] . it is an inactive prodrug that requires enzymatic and chemical activation: CP is primarily biotransformed to 4-hydrox-ycyclophosphamide (4-oh CP) and aldophosphamide in the liver by cytochrome P450 (CYP450) enzymes, and then aldophosphamide was catalyzed to acrolein through β-elimination, yielding the ultimate alkylating metabolite that accounts for its cytotoxic properties, phosphoramide mustard. Meanwhile, about 10% of CP was partly dechloroethylated to give equivalent amounts of 2-dechloroethylcyclophosphamide (DeCP) and chloroacetaldehyde (Caa), and CYP3a4 exhibited the highest N-dechloroethylation activity toward this pathway ( Fig. 1) [4, 5, 20] . attaining therapeutic versus toxic outcomes in patients treated with CP requires an understanding of the individual variation in both activation and detoxifying pathways [11] . among these metabolites, acrolein is known to be responsible for the hemorrhagic cystitis observed in some patients, whereas Caa is said to be responsible for nephrotoxicity and neurotoxicity [20, 27] . in order to prevent hemorrhagic cystitis caused by acrolein, 2-mercaptoethane sulfonate (MeSna) is coadministered to patients currently being prescribed CP. however, MeSna cannot reduce Caa nephrotoxicity in vivo [27] .
Although the published DERA-catalyzed reaction offered the potential to greatly simplify the process for synthesizing the chiral side chain of statins, several issues would limit its practicability for large-scale production. First, the catalyst load was very high, Ϸ200 mg of DERA per gram of isolated product (RACl), or 20% (wt͞wt). Use of such a high concentration of enzyme would make the process prohibitively expensive, in addition to making isolation of product from the reaction mixture difficult. Second, the reaction time was on the order of several days. Third, the concentration of the limiting reagent, chloroacetaldehyde, was only 100 mM. Taken together, the volumetric productivity of the published process was 2 g͞liter per day. Hence, in this process, the value of building an advanced statin intermediate, with establishment of both stereogenic centers from achiral 2-carbon starting materials in a single reaction, would be offset on process scale by a very large reaction volume, long reaction time, high catalyst concentration, and laborious product isolation. In addition to these points, the enantioselectivity and diastereoselectivity of the DERAcatalyzed reaction was unknown.
Trichloroethylene (TCE), a widespread and persistent environmental contaminant, is a regulated material in groundwater and soil. In this study, the electrochemical degradation of TCE was carried out using Pt/Ti-Ni as an anode-cathode material at a 0.1 A direct current. More than 99% TCE was degraded in a 69-hr reaction. The TCE degradation intermediates were identified as trichloroacetaldehyde, trichloroacetic acid, dichloroacetic acid, monochloroacetic acid, chloroform, and dichloromethane. From the chlorine balance during TCE electrochemical degradation, 98% TCE was converted to chlorine ions, chlorate ions, trichloroacetaldehyde, chloroform, and dichloroacetic acid. The degradation of the TCE intermediates was carried out to determine the electrochemical degradation pathways of TCE. The TCE degradation pathways are proposed to proceed as follows: as the main pathway, (i) TCE → trichloroacetaldehyde → trichloroacetic acid → dichloroacetic acid → monochloroacetic acid → low-molecular-weight materials; and as the subpathway, (ii) TCE → trichloroacetaldehyde → chloroform → dichloromethane → low-molecular-weight materials.
Abstract An isocratic high-pressure liquid chromatographic (HPLC) procedure was developed to utilize common laboratory instrumentation for analysis of ATP, ADP and AMP in aqueous extracts of natural samples. Adenylates were reacted with chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) to form 1, N 6 -etheno-derivatives for fluorescence detection. Optimal derivatization conditions were 0.3 M CAA and pH values of 4.0–5.0. Derivatives were separated on an ODS (C-18) column with mobile phase 10% methanol: 90% 150 mM NaH 2 PO 4 , pH 6.0. Elution time was under 18 min. Lower limits of quantification were 10 nM (5 pmol in 500 μl injection), and detector response was linear to at least 150 nM. Coefficient of variation for fluorescence peak height was under 4% at concentrations of 50 nM and greater. Eight other adenine or cytidine compounds tested did not interfere in the HPLC analysis. Derivatization and HPLC procedures were compatible with common aqueous extraction media for nucleotides: phosphoric acid, sodium phosphate, sulfuric acid and tris. The procedures were used extensively to measure adenine nucleotides is seston from a small, oligotrophic lake.
Abstract 2,2,2-Trifluorodiazoethane reacts with trifluoroacetonitrile in the dark at room temperature to give a 2-(2,2,2-trifluoroethyl)-4, 5-bis(trifluoromethyl)triazole, the 1,2,3-triazole structure being preferred to the 1,2,4-isomer on the basis of the 19 F n.m.r. spectrum. The diazoethane reacts more slowly with trichloroacetonitrile, again forming the N-alkylated triazole even in the presence of an excess of the nitrile. No identifiable adduct resulted with acetonitrile. Hexafluoroisopropyl-ideneimine is first N-alkylated and then undergoes addition to form 1-(2,2,2-trifluoro-1-trifluoromethyl)ethyl-4,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)-▵-1,2,3-triazoline, but N-methylhexafluoroisopropylideneimine failed to react. Trifluoroacetaldehyde and trichloroacetaldehyde give mixtures of the ketone (formed by insertion of the CF 3 CH group into the aldehyde CH bond) and the cis - and trans -oxirans, apparently via a β-hydroxydiazoalkane.
Vinyl chloride (VC) is a carcinogen associated with human and animal cancers. The ultimate carcinogenic form of VC, 2-chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), has been suspected to be mutagenic and we confirmed the mutagenicity of CAA using a modified shuttle vector plasmid. Base sequence analyses of 109 mutant plasmids with mutations in the supF gene, which were treated with CAA and propagated in the cultured human cells, revealed that more than half of the single base substitutions were G:C to A:T transitions with eight hotspots. The majority of the mutations involving G:C base pairs were in 5'-AAGG-3' or 5'-CCTT-3' sequences suggesting that these sequences are the main targets of mutagenesis caused by CAA.
The genetic toxicity profiles of vinyl chloride (VC1), vinyl bromide (VBr), ethyl carbamate (EC), vinyl carbamate (VC) and some structurally related chemicals were investigated in both somatic and germ cells of Drosophila melanogaster. In the whitefwhite+ eye mosaic assay, a screening system measuring predominantly homologous recombination in somatic cells, only marginal genotoxic activities were observed for acetyl chloride (AC1), glycolaldehyde (GCA), 2,2-dichlorodiethyl ether (DDE) and methyl carbamate (MC), whereas VC1, 2-chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), VBr, 2-bromoacetaldehyde (BAA) and EC were clearly recombinogenic in the assay. Those chemicals proven to be recombinogenic in somatic cells were investigated further in postmeiotic male germ cells, utilizing as descriptors of their genotoxicity ICL/RL and Mar. IM^^. indices. The ICu R1 index is the rate of induced chromosome loss (CL), a clastogemc event, divided by the forward mutation rate, measured as recessive lethal (RL) mutations in 700 loci of the X-chromosome. The Mexr./Mar+ mutation enhancement ratio is obtained by determining RL under excision repair deficient versus repair proficient conditions. With ICL/RL
Imidazo [1,2-b] pyridazine is the C-3 side chain of the fourth-generation cephalosporins:cefozopran.In this paper,maleic anhydride was used as the starting material to synthesize imidazo [1,2-b] pyridazine through hydrazinolysis,halogenation,ammonolysis,cyclization and dehalogenation.Strong acids were applied as the reaction medium of the first step,and the yield of maleic hydrazide could reach 96%.3,6-Dichloro-pyridazine was synthesized by a new one-pot method which increased the yield from 74.4% to 88%.3-Amino-6-chloro pyridazine was synthesized by microwave-assisted ammonolysis,which could shorten the reaction time from 17 h to 0.5 h.During the formation of the imidazole ring,with ethanol as the solvent,the use of low-cost chloroacetaldehyde could simplify the reaction process.In the hydrogenation of the 6-chloro-imidazo [1,2-b] pyridazine,palladium carbon was used as the catalyst,and the reaction could be accomplished at atmospheric pressure.Since each single-step yield was higher than 80%,this synthetic route was considered to be practical in industry.
Male mice were given 1.9 μmol·kg-1 of methyl-14C-labelled DDVP by intraperitoneal injection. The degree of alkylation of guanine-N-7 in DNA from pooled soft organs was determined by radioactivity measurements to be 8·10-13 mol methyl·(g DNA)-1. From the low efficiency in vivo of DDVP as a methylating agent it follows that the genetic risk associated with alkylations is low. Attention should be paid to the metabolite 2,2-dichloroacetaldehyde, which may constitute a higher genetic risk.
The 1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis(p-chlorophenyl)ethene (DDT) metabolic intermediate 1-chloro-2,2-bis(p-chlorophenyl)ethene (DDMU) is partially metabolized in vivo by mice to 2-hydroxy-2,2-bis(p-chlorophenyl)acetic acid (alpha OH-DDA) and other metabolites which are excreted in urine. The subsequent DDT metabolic intermediates 1-chloro-2,2-bis(p-chlorophenyl)ethane (DDMS) and 1,1-bis(p-chlorophenyl)ethene (DDNU) are metabolized to alpha OH-DDA to a much lesser extent. These results imply that DDMU may be metabolized via an alpha-chloroepoxide. The authentic DDMU-epoxide, which after oral administration is excreted as alpha OH-DDA, is mutagenic in the Ames assay, and thermally rearranges rapidly to the corresponding alpha-chloroaldehyde, 2,2-bis(p-chlorophenyl)-2-chloroacetaldehyde (alpha Cl-DDCHO). As expected alpha Cl-DDCHO yielded the same urinary metabolites as DDMU-epoxide. This suggested metabolic pathway for DDMU via a chloroepoxide intermediate may account for the tumorigenicity of DDT in mice.
Established cell lines are widely used as in vitro models in toxicology studies. The choice of an appropriate cell line is critical when performing studies to elucidate drug-induced toxicity in humans. The porcine renal proximal tubular cell line LLC-PK1 is routinely used to study the nephrotoxic effects of drugs in humans. However, there are significant interspecies differences in drug pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics. The objective of this study was to determine whether the human renal proximal tubular cell line HK-2 is an acceptable model to use when performing in vitro toxicity studies to predict effects in humans. We examined 2 nephrotoxic agents, ifosfamide (IFO) and acyclovir, that exhibit different clinical nephrotoxic patterns. HK-2 cells metabolized IFO to its nephrotoxic metabolite, chloroacetaldehyde (CAA). Acyclovir induced a concentration-dependent decrease in HK-2 cell viability, suggesting that acyclovir may induce direct insult to renal proximal tubular cells. The results support clinical pathology data in humans and suggest that HK-2 cells are a suitable model to use in in vitro toxicity studies to determine drug-induced nephrotoxicity in humans.
CONTINUOUS PROCESS CATALYST PREPARATION trifluoroacetaldehyde FLUORIDATION BY GAS PHASE trichloroacetaldehyde IN REACTION ZONE BETWEEN ONE AND 230C 260C, IS ON A CATALYST OF GAMMA ALUMINA IMPREGNATED OF CRO A 2,5ATOMES CHROME1 REASON OF aLUMINA AND ACTIVE BETWEEN 300C and 400C BY equimolecular mixture HYDROFLUORIC ACID AND tRICHLORO-1,1,2-1,2,2-TRIFLUORO ETHANE.
Two groups of male and female Sprague-Dawley rats (50 animals/group per sex) were treated with either 15.37 or 46.77 mumole of 1,1,2-TCE in DMSO/rat for 2 years. The animals were treated once a week by s.c. injection of test compound in the skin of neck. Two groups of controls received either DMSO or no treatment at all. The incidence of benign mesenchymal and epithelial tumors was not significant when compared with either DMSO-treated or untreated controls. The animals treated with 46.77 mumole 1,1,2-TCE significantly developed sarcomas when compared with the untreated controls. In a further experiment, either 40 mumole or 160 mumole 1,1,2-TCE was injected into male Wistar rats and the metabolites, TdGA and HEMA, were determined in 24-h urine samples. Comparative studies were carried out giving equimolar amounts of chloroethanol and 2-chloroacetaldehyde diethyl acetal. Analysis of the metabolites showed that no detectable HEMA was excreted in urine after treatment of rats with 1,1,2-TCE or chloroethanol. TdGA was excreted in urine much more among chloroacetaldehyde-treated animals than among 1,1,2-TCE- or chloroethanol-treated rats.
We have integrated in vitro and in silico data to describe the toxicity of chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) on renal cells via its production from the metabolism of ifosfamide (IFO) by hepatic cells. A pharmacokinetic (PK) model described the production of CAA by the hepatocytes and its transport to the renal cells. A system biology model was coupled to the PK model to describe the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) induced by CAA in the renal cells. In response to the ROS production, the metabolism of glutathione (GSH) and its depletion were modeled by the action of an NFE2L2 gene-dependent pathway. The model parameters were estimated in a Bayesian context via Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) simulations based on microfluidic experiments and literature in vitro data. Hepatic IFO and CAA in vitro intrinsic clearances were estimated to be 1.85 x 10(-9) μL s(-1) cell(-1) and 0.185 x 10(-9) μL s(-1) cell(-1) ,respectively (corresponding to an in vivo intrinsic IFO clearance estimate of 1.23 l h(-1) , to be compared to IFO published values ranging from 3 to 10 l h(-1) ). After model calibration, simulations made at therapeutic doses of IFO showed CAA renal intracellular concentrations ranging from 11 to 131 μM. Intracellular CAA concentrations above 70 μM induced intense ROS production and GSH depletion. Those responses were time and dose dependent, showing transient and non-linear kinetics. Those results are in agreement with literature data reporting that intracellular CAA toxic concentrations range from 35 to 320 μM, after therapeutic ifosfamide dosing. The results were also consistent with in vitro CAA renal cytotoxicity data.
The soluble, three-protein component methane monooxygenase purified from Methylosinus trichosporium OB3b is capable of oxidizing chlorinated, fluorinated, and brominated alkenes, including the widely distributed ground-water contaminant trichloroethylene (TCE). The oxidation rates for the chloroalkenes were observed to be comparable to that for methane, the natural substrate, and up to 7000-fold higher than those reported for other well-defined biological systems. The competitive inhibitor tetrachloroethylene was found to be the only chlorinated ethylene not turned over. However, this appears to be due to steric effects rather than electronic effects or the lack of an abstractable proton because chlorotrifluoroethylene was efficiently oxidized. As evidenced by the formation of diagnostic adducts with 4-(p-nitrobenzyl)pyridine, the halogenated alkenes were oxidized predominantly by epoxidation. Stable acidic products resulting from subsequent hydrolysis were identified as the major products. However, additional aldehydic products resulting from intramolecular halide or hydride migration were observed in 3-10% yield during the oxidation of TCE, vinylidene chloride, trifluorethylene, and tribromoethylene. Product analysis of the hydrolysis reaction of authentic TCE epoxide showed little or no 2,2,2-trichloroacetaldehyde (chloral) formation, indicating that atomic migration occurred prior to product dissociation from the enzyme. The occurrence of atomic migration products shows that an intermediate in the substrate to product conversion carries significant cationic character. Such a species could be generated through interaction with a highly electron-deficient activated oxygen in the active site.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The generally accepted mechanism for the formation of etheno derivatives upon reaction of adenosine or cytidine with haloacetaldehydes involves two intermediates. The first, a primary addition to the exocyclic amino group, has not been experimentally verified. The second, a cyclic form of the first intermediate, has been described in monomers but presumed to be too unstable to exist in polynucleotides since such derivatives would be readily dehydrated to other derivatives at pHs below neutrality. We have found that the cyclic intermediates of adenosine and cytidine are the predominant products in polynucleotides, even upon extensive reaction with chloroacetaldehyde at neutrality. The hydrated compounds have half-lives at pH 7, 37 degrees C, of 1.4 h and 13 h for adenosine and cytidine, respectively. Two types of evidence are presented for the existence of the first intermediate, a (1-hydroxy-2-chloroethyl)-substituted exocyclic amino group. Firstly, poly d[A-T] cannot form etheno derivatives (except when denatured) and the observed cross-linking is therefore attributed to alkylation by the chlorinated sidechain of the adenine residue (A), acting on the N6 of A on the opposite strand. Secondly, our results show that blocking of the acceptor nitrogen, needed for cyclization, leads to the formation of relatively stable derivatives of adenosine and cytidine. Guanosine, as a monomer, is modified extensively, but in synthetic polymers no reaction was detected, possibly due to secondary structure.
4-Dimethylamino-trans-cinnamaldehyde and chloroacetaldehyde are novel substrates of yeast alcohol dehydrogenase (EC 1.1.1.1). In the present work, we have reported the steady-state kinetic constants for both substrates, and their chemical reactions with the enzyme protein itself. Both substrates are potentially useful for biotechnology, chemoenzyme syntheses and analytical biochemistry.
Cyclophosphamide (CP) is one of the most frequently used anticancer agents. It is a prodrug requiring activation before exerting cytotoxicity. CP is deactivated to 2-dechloroethylcyclophosphamide (2-DCECP) with formation of an equimolar amount of chloroacetaldehyde. The aim of this study was to develop and validate a sensitive and simple assay for 2-DCECP in plasma of patients treated with CP. Sample pre-treatment consisted of solid-phase extraction of 500 microl of plasma over OASIS HLB (1 ml) cartridges with trofosfamide as internal standard. Separation and detection of underivatized 2-DCECP was performed with capillary gas chromatography with nitrogen/phosphorous selective detection. Extraction recovery of 2-DCECP exceeded 87%. No interference from endogenous compounds, other metabolites of CP and frequently coadministered drugs was detected. The assay was linear in the range of 5-5000 ng/ml in plasma. Accuracy, within-day and between-day precision were less than 11% for the complete concentration range. In plasma, 2-DCECP was stable for at least 1 month when kept at -70 degrees C. Analysis of samples from patients treated with CP demonstrated the applicability of the assay. In conclusion, a sensitive and simple assay for 2-DCECP in plasma, which meets the current requirements for bioanalytical assays, was developed.
Gas-phase photocatalysis of 1,4-dichlorobut-2-enes and 3,4-dichlorobut-1-ene (DCB) has been studied using TiO2 and 3%WO3/TiO2 supported on SiO2. DCB was found to oxidize efficiently over these catalysts; however, only low rates of CO2 formation were observed. With these chlorinated hydrocarbons, the catalysts were found to deactivate over time, probably via the formation of aldol condensation products of chloroacetaldehyde, which is the predominant intermediate observed. The variation in rate and selectivity of the oxidation reactions with O-2 concentration is reported and a mechanism is proposed. Using isotope ratio mass spectrometry, the initial step for the DCB removal has been shown not to be a carbon bond cleavage but is likely to be hydroxyl radical addition to the carbon-carbon double bond.
A high-performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC) method for the determination of 9-[(2-phosphonylmethoxy)ethyl]adenine (PMEA) in urine is described. The procedure includes treatment of the urine sample with chloroacetaldehyde to form the fluorescent 1,N6-ethenoadenosine derivative, which was analyzed by reversed-phase HPLC with fluorometric detection. Validation of the method showed good sensitivity, precision and reproducibility. The method is useful for the study of urinary excretion of PMEA in the rat.
A new spray reagent has been used for TLC detection and spectrophotometric quantification of dichlorvos after extraction with ethanol from bluish tinged maize grains. Silica gel G as stationary phase with cyclohexane-acetone-methanol 8:3:0.5 (v/v) as mobile phase was identified as the best TLC system for detection and migration (RF) of dichlorvos. On alkaline hydrolysis dichlorvos forms dimethylphosphoric acid and dichloroacetaldehyde; the latter reacts with 2-thiobarbituric acid to give a sharp pink spot. The reagent is selective for dichlorvos, and does not react with other organophosphorus, organochlorine, carbamate, and synthetic pyrethroid insecticides. The constituents of viscera (amino acids, peptides, proteins, etc.) and grain do not interfere with the test. The lower limit of detection on silica TLC plates was 18 µg. The absorbance maximum (λmax) of the pink color formed by dichlorvos was 500 nm. A plot of absorbance against concentration was a straight line passing through the origin and obeying the Beer-Lambert law in the concentration range 50–350 µg mL−1. The method has been used for identification of dichlorvos in cereals, pulses, vegetables, and fruit.
The initial metabolism of the oxazaphosphorine cytostatic ifosfamide (IF) consists of two different pathways: ring oxidation at carbon-4 forms the cytostatically active metabolite 4-hydroxyifosfamide (4-OH-IF, “activated ifosfamide”), whereas side-chain oxidation with liberation of the presumably neurotoxic compound chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) that may also be responsible for IF-associated nephrotoxicity results in the formation of the cytostatically inactive metabolites 2-dechloroethylifosfamide (2-DCE-IF) and 3-dechloroethylifosfamide (3-DCE-IF). The pharmacokinetics of IF and its metabolites were investigated in 11 patients with bronchogenic carcinoma receiving IF on a 5-day divided-dose schedule (1.5 g/m2 daily). Blood samples were drawn on days 1 and 5 for up to 24 h after the start of the IF infusion. IF, 2-DCE-IF, and 3-DCE-IF were simultaneously quantified by gas chromatography (GC) with an NIP flame-ionization detector (NPFID), CAA was determined by GC with an electron-capture detector (ECD), and the highly unstable compound 4-OH-IF was measured using a high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) assay with fluorometric detection of 7-OH-quinoline, which is formed by the condensation of 4-OH-IF-derived acrolein withm-aminophenol. As compared with the values obtained on day 1, on day 5 the terminal half-life and AUC values determined for IF were reduced by 30% (6.36 vs 4.06 h and 1781 vs 1204 nmol h ml−1, respectively), whereas the maximal concentration (Cmax) values were not affected significantly (199.1 vs 181.1 nmol ml−1). This known phenomenon is explained by autoinduction of hepatic IF metabolism and was paralleled by increased metabolite levels. The mean Cmax values determined for 4-OH-IF, CAA, 3-DCE-IF, and 2-DCE-IF (on day 1/on day 5) were 1.51/2.59, 2.69/4.85, 12.9/26.5, and 8.6/16.7 nmol ml−1, respectively. The corresponding AUC values were 11.3/16.5, 30.3/34.3, 146/354, and 111/209 nmol h ml−1, respectively. As calculated by intraindividual comparison, the mean Cmax (day 5)∶Cmax (day 1) ratios for 4-OH-IF, CAA, 3-DCE-IF, and 2-DCE-IF were 1.94*, 2.05*, 2.52*, and 2.33*, respectively; the corresponding AUC (day 5)∶AUC (day 1) ratios were 1.51*, 1.29, 2.34*, and 2.23*, respectively (*P<0.05). These data reveal that during fractionated-dose IF therapy the cancerotoxic effect of the drug increases. If the assumed role of CAA in IF-associated neurotoxicity and nephrotoxicity is a dose-dependent phenomenon, the probability of developing these side effects would also increase during prolonged IF application.
The human thymine-DNA glycosylase has a sequence homolog in Escherichia coli that is described to excise uracils from U.G mismatches (Gallinari, P., and Jiricny, J. (1996) Nature 383, 735-738) and is named mismatched uracil glycosylase (Mug). It has also been described to remove 3,N(4)-ethenocytosine (epsilonC) from epsilonC.G mismatches (Saparbaev, M., and Laval, J. (1998) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 95, 8508-8513). We used a mug mutant to clarify the role of this protein in DNA repair and mutation avoidance. We find that inactivation of mug has no effect on C to T or 5-methylcytosine to T mutations in E. coli and that this contrasts with the effect of ung defect on C to T mutations and of vsr defect on 5-methylcytosine to T mutations. Even under conditions where it is overproduced in cells, Mug has little effect on the frequency of C to T mutations. Because uracil-DNA glycosylase (Ung) and Vsr are known to repair U.G and T.G mismatches, respectively, we conclude that Mug does not repair U.G or T.G mismatches in vivo. A defect in mug also has little effect on forward mutations, suggesting that Mug does not play a role in avoiding mutations due to endogenous damage to DNA in growing E. coli. Cell-free extracts from mug(+) ung cells show very little ability to remove uracil from DNA, but can excise epsilonC. The latter activity is missing in extracts from mug cells, suggesting that Mug may be the only enzyme in E. coli that can remove this mutagenic adduct. Thus, the principal role of Mug in E. coli may be to help repair damage to DNA caused by exogenous chemical agents such as chloroacetaldehyde.
In a previous study on the formation of triplex structures at FRDA (GAA) n repeats, we showed that a low-molecular weight benzoquinoquinoxaline compound (BQQ), recognizes triplex structures formed at (GAA) n repeats in plasmids. BQQ is a DNA intercalating compound that specifically binds and stabilizes triplex structures of both purine and pyrimidine motifs [51] [52] [53] [54] . Furthermore, BQQ is cell permeable, and we have shown that the compound binds and stabilizes H-DNA structures formed in plasmids in growing Escherichia coli cells [55] . Additionally, we have converted BQQ to a triplex-specific cleaving agent (BQQ-OP) by conjugation to a 1,10-phenanthroline ligand [52] . In the presence of Cu 2+ and a reducing agent BQQ-OP causes dsDNA cleavage specifically at the site of formation of a triplex, and we have previously demonstrated the ability of BQQ-OP to probe triplex formation of both H-DNA and TFO-directed triplex structures in plasmids in vitro [55, 56] . Sequence-specific targeting of GAA repeats using synthetic single strand oligonucleotides (ONs) is an attractive approach to examine the molecular mechanisms of non-canonical DNA structure formation at FRDA repeat expansions. While modified ONs as mRNA targeting therapeutics have made major progress lately, also in relation to triplet-repeat diseases [57, 58] , successful DNA targeting of nucleotide repeats using ONs has not been reported. In this study we aimed to target the alternative DNA structures at FRDA (GAA) n repeats using modified ONs. We chose to examine PNA and LNA binding to these repeats owing to their ability to both invade dsDNA and to form triplex structure and thereby interfere with the formation of H-DNA and other higher order structures in FRDA expanded repeats. BQQ-OP mediated triplex-specific cleavage of dsDNA and chemical modification of ssDNA regions using chloroacetaldehyde were used to characterize the DNA structures and PNA-DNA complexes formed in short, medium and long (GAA) n repeats. To assess global structural changes in plasmids containing (GAA) n repeats in the presence of LNA oligomers, we used Atomic Force Microscopy (AFM). Our results demonstrate that targeting GAA repeats with PNA or LNA oligomers can resolve higher order structures formed in FRDA expanded repeats.
Dichlorvos (DDVP) is a methylating agent. In DNA from mice given 1.9 ± 10-6 mol/kg of DDVP, a degree of alkylation of guanine-N-7 amounting to 8 ± 10-13 mol methyl per g DNA, was found. From this, a rate of clearence of 29 hr-1 was estimated. This value is in reasonable agreement with the value (55 hr-1), calculated from published data on the concentration over time of DDVP in the brain after injection of the compound in mice. Applying a risk estimation on humans exposed to DDVP, the genetic risk connected with the methylating activity of DDVP is low or very low. Comparing the mutagenic effectiveness of DDVP with that of methyl methanesulfonate, indicates that DDVP is more effective than expected from reaction kinetic data. The possible contribution of the dichloroacetaldehyde formed in vivo from DDVP has to be evaluated before a complete risk estimate can be made for DDVP.
A sensitive and selective liquid chromatographic (LC) assay was developed to determine the concentration of pyrimethamine in animal tissue and egg by fluorescent derivative. Animal samples were extracted with acetonitrile, centrifuged, and purified by hexane. Fluorescent derivatization was performed by reacting pyrimethamine with chloroacetaldehyde and subjected to LC with fluorescence detection (excitation wavelength 300 nm, emission wavelength 420 nm). The limit of detection was 10 nglg (10 ppb) and the standard calibration curve was linear in the range of 1-100 ppb (0.01-1 ng/10 μL). Recoveries from samples fortified at levels of 0.1 and 1 ppm (μg/g) were 61.0-77.4 and 65.5-81.2%, respectively. The method was applied to the monitoring of marketed samples. Pyrimethamine was not determined in any of the 70 samples: 20 swine muscle; 20 chicken muscle; 10 chicken liver; and 20 egg.
Chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), a product of hepatic metabolism of the widely used anticancer drug ifosfamide (IFO), has been reported to decrease cancer cell proliferation. The basis of this effect is not completely known but has been attributed to a drop of cellular ATP content. Given the importance of glucose metabolism and of the ‘Warburg effect’ in cancer cells, we examined in the present study the ability of CAA to inhibit cancer cell proliferation by altering the glycolytic pathway. Cell proliferation, ATP content, glucose transport and metabolism as well as the activities of the main enzymes of glycolysis were determined in human breast cancer cells MCF-7 in the presence of various CAA concentrations (5–50 μm). Our results show that low CAA concentrations inhibited cell proliferation in a concentration-dependent manner. This inhibition was explained by a decrease in glucose utilization. Cellular ATP content was not reduced but even increased with 25 μm CAA. The inhibition of glucose metabolism was mainly explained by the decrease in glucose transport and hexokinase activity. The activity of glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, but not that of phosphofructokinase, was also inhibited. Glycolysis inhibition by CAA was effective in decreasing the proliferation of MCF-7 cells. Interestingly, this decrease was not due to ATP depletion; rather, it was linked to a drop of biosynthetic precursors from glycolytic intermediates. This CAA-induced inhibition of cell proliferation suggests that it might play a role in the antitumor activity of IFO. Copyright © 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Etheno adducts can be formed by the reaction of vinyl chloride metabolites with DNA and may play a role in the carcinogenicity of this chemical. These adducts are highly fluorescent and may be quantitated by sensitive photometric methods in conjunction with high-performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC) separation. Three HPLC systems were evaluated on the basis of maximal fluorescence intensity and resolution of two etheno adducts, ethenodeoxycytidine and ethenodeoxyadenosine. Analyses were conducted with enzymatically digested DNA that had been incubated with chloroacetaldehyde, a vinyl chloride metabolite which may cause etheno adduct formation in vivo. All three known etheno adducts of DNA were tentatively identified in DNA reacted in vitro. The sensitivity of the method was highest for the ethenodeoxyadenosine adduct, with the limit of detection (1 pmol per injection in the HPLC system) being similar to that for O6-methylguanine, another promutagenic DNA adduct for which quantitation by HPLC with fluorescence detection has been reported. The method described here may be useful for the analysis of DNA from animals or humans exposed to vinyl chloride.
Ifosfamide (IF) -induced nephrotoxicity adversely affects the health and well-being of children with cancer. We have recently shown age-dependent nephrotoxicity of IF, with younger children (less than 3 years of age) substantially more vulnerable. The mechanisms leading to this age-related IF-induced renal damage have not been identified. The hypothesis underlying this work was that there is renal ontogeny in the expression and activity of cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes responsible for IF metabolism to the nephrotoxic chloroacetaldehyde. The presence of renal CYP3A and 2B22 activity was evaluated in pigs between 1 day of age to adulthood, as was the metabolism of IF by renal microsomes to 2- and 3-dechloroethylifosfamide (2-DCEIF and 3-DCEIF). Kidney CYP3A mRNA expression peaked at 15 to 60 days (0.7–76±0.19 CYP3A/actin ratio) (P<0.001). Subsequently, this level decreased to adult values (0.54±0.03 CYP3A/actin ratio) (P=0.04). In a similar manner, there was an increase in IF metabolic rate between young (18±2 pM/mg protein/min) vs adults (12.2±0.17 pM/mg protein/min) (P=0.002). This is the first documentation of ontogeny of renal CYP3A and of renal IF metabolism. These data suggest that age-dependent IF nephrotoxicity is, at least in part, due to ontogeny in the production chloroacetaldehyde. ::: ::: ::: ::: Clinical Pharmacology & Therapeutics (2005) 77, P80–P80; doi: 10.1016/j.clpt.2004.12.198
The decomposed products of trichlorfon in gas chromatographic analysis were identified by mass spectrometry (MS). After MS interpretation, three decomposed products, trichloroacetaldehyde, dimethyl phosphite and dichlorvos were identified. The effects of gas chromatographic conditions on decomposed products of trichlorfon, e. g. injection temperature, injection mode and oven ramp, were studied. The experiments showed that all of the factors have effects on decomposed products of trichlorfon, however, the injection temperature is the key factor to cause trichlorfon being decomposed. The higher the injection temperature is, the bigger the amount of trichlorfon being decomposed. When the injection temperature was raised from 150 degrees C to 250 degrees C, the remaining trichlorfon fell from 86% to 20%. Therefore, on-cold column injection mode gas chromatography or high performance liquid chromatography was recommended for exact quantification of trace trichlorfon.
Monoclonal antibodies which specifically recognize ethenoadenosine and ethenocytidine, two of the adducts resulting from exposure to vinyl chloride, have been developed. The sensitivity and specificity of these antibodies have been determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The antibody to ethenoadenosine (1G4) reacts with both the ribose (50% inhibition at 600 fmol) and deoxyribose (50% inhibition at 980 fmol) form of the adduct. The antibody to ethenocytidine (6F5) also reacts with both the ribose (50% inhibition at 800 fmol) and deoxyribose (50% inhibition at 1000 fmol) form of the adduct. Neither antibody cross-reacts with non-modified DNA or the normal nucleotides. A more sensitive fluorescence ELISA was developed for antibody 1G4 with 50% inhibition at 212 fmol of ethenoadenosine and for antibody 6F5 with 50% inhibition at 192 fmol ethenocytidine. These antibodies have been used to determine the level of etheno derivatives in DNA modified in vitro with chloroacetaldehyde and in the DNA and RNA of cells treated in culture.
Random mutagenesis followed by a filter-based screening assay has been used to identify a mutant of human class 1 aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH1) that was no longer inhibited by Mg(2+) ions but was activated in their presence. Several mutants possessed double, triple, and quadruple amino acid substitutions with a total of seven different residues being altered, but each had a common T244S change. This point mutation proved to be responsible for the Mg(2+) ion activation. An ALDH1 T244S mutant was recombinantly expressed and was used for mechanistic studies. Mg(2+) ions have been shown to increase the rate of deacylation. Consistent with the rate-limiting step for ALDH1 being changed from coenzyme dissociation to deacylation was finding that chloroacetaldehyde was oxidized more rapidly than acetaldehyde. Furthermore, Mg(2+) ions only in the presence of NAD(H) increased the rate of hydrolysis of p-nitrophenyl acetate showing that the metal only affects the binary complex. Though the rate-limiting step for the T244S mutant was different from that of the native enzyme, the catalytic efficiency of the mutant was just 20% that of the native enzyme. The basis for the change in the rate-limiting step appears to be related to NAD(+) binding. Using the structure of a sheep class 1 ALDH, it was possible to deduce that the interaction between the side chain of T244 and its neighboring residues with the nicotinamide ring of NAD(+) were an essential determinant in the catalytic action of ALDH1.
Chemical probing of two predominantly alternating purine-pyrimidine d(CA/TG)n repeats led us to propose previously that in supercoiled plasmids these elements adopt a non-B-DNA structure distinct from that of Z-DNA formed by d(CG)n sequences. Here, we present further evidence supporting this contention. Reactivity with the conformation-sensitive reagent chloroacetaldehyde, which reacts with unpaired adenines and cytosines, was confined strictly to adenines in the d(CA/TG)n repeat. In contrast, only bases outside the d(CG)n repeat exhibited chloroacetaldehyde reactivity. Two-dimensional gel analysis of topoisomers containing d(CA/TG)n tracts with bases out of strict purine-pyrimidine alteration revealed multiple superhelical-dependent transitions to an alternative left-handed structure. Within individual plasmid molecules, these multiple transitions resulted from the stepwise conversion of contiguous segments of alternating purine-pyrimidine sequence, which are delimited by bases out of alternation, to the full-length alternative conformation. When the left-handed helices increased in length to include more bases out of alternation, the average helical pitch changed substantially to produce a less tightly wound left-handed helix. Overall, these data indicate that d(CA/TG)n tracts adopt a left-handed conformation significantly different from that of the canonical Z-DNA structure of d(CG)n sequences.
Abstract Disinfection byproducts (DBPs) are inevitably generated during drinking water disinfection processes, and their hazards have not been well characterized. Because they plausibly cause toxicological and pathological damage to human kidney, we selected the human embryonic kidney (HEK293) cell, instead of the commonly used CHO cell, as a model to investigate the toxic potential and target of 10 DBPs, including 3 haloacetamides, 2 trihaloacetaldehydes and 5 iodomethanes. Based on the chronic toxicity parameter EC10 of the cell viability test, we obtained a toxic rank of the tested DBPs different from previous studies and calculated their risk quotients by combining their actual concentrations in drinking water systems. Then, dichloroacetamide (DCAM), trichloroacetaldehyde (TCAL), and bromochloroiodomethane (BCIM) were selected to conduct multiple mechanistic bioassays, including cellular lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) assay, ATP metabolism, ROS production, mitochondria-derived apoptosis and qRT-PCR assay. All bioassays revealed the effects of interrupting the molecular, physiological and biochemical processes relevant to mitochondrial functions, such as oxidative respiration, apoptosis, and energy metabolism. Our study improved the human risk assessment of DBPs with the help of a convenient model and parameter and revealed that mitochondrion is a potential toxic focus of DBPs exposure at the cellular level.
Abstract Electrical field stimulation elicits the release of catecholamines, adenine nucleotides, and adenosine from the rabbit pulmonary artery in a frequency dependent manner. To enhance our ability to investigate the release of endogenous adenine nucleotides and adenosine from this and other biological preparations, a new analytical procedure has been developed. This procedure involves the use of an internal standard, 9-β-D-arabinofuranosyladenine (IS), the derivatization of ATP, ADP, AMP, adenosine (Ado), and IS with chloroacetaldehyde, the isocratic high-performance liquid chromatographic separation of these ethenopurine derivatives on an Ultron N -phenyl HPLC column, and their detection and quantitation by fluorescence spectroscopy. This procedure has enhanced sensitivity and reliability over existing procedures due to the stability of the chromatographic baseline and the use of an internal standard. When this analytical procedure was utilized to measure the adenine nucleotides and Ado that are released from the rabbit pulmonary artery in response to electrical field stimulation, it was observed that the release of endogenous ATP, ADP, AMP, and Ado exceeded that of endogenous norepinephrine. A molar ratio (6-amino purines:catecholamines) of approximately 2000:1 was obtained at a stimulation frequency of 16 Hz. This observation suggests an important extracellular role for adenine nucleotides and nucleosides in the physiology of vascular tissues.
Repeated administration of agents (e.g., cancer chemotherapy) that can cause drug-induced nephrotoxicity may lead to acute or chronic renal damage. This will adversely affect the health and well-being of children, especially when the developing kidney is exposed to toxic agents that may lead to acute glomerular, tubular or combined toxicity. We have previously shown that the cancer chemotherapeutic ifosfamide (IF) causes serious renal damage substantially more in younger children (less than 3 years of age) than among older children. The mechanism of the age-related IF-induced renal damage is not known. Our major hypothesis is that renal CYP P450 expression and activity are responsible for IF metabolism to the nephrotoxic chloroacetaldehyde. Presently, the ontogeny of these catalytic enzymes in the kidney is sparsely known. The presence of CYP3A4, 3A5 and 2B6 was investigated in human fetal, pediatric and adult kidney as was the metabolism of IF (both R-IF and S-IF enantiomers) by renal microsomes to 2-dechloroethylifosfamide (2-DCEIF) and 3-dechloroethylifosfamide (3-DCEIF). Our analysis shows that CYP 3A4 and 3A5 are present as early as 8 weeks of gestation. IF is metabolized in the kidney to its two enantiomers. This metabolism can be inhibited with CYP 3A4/5 and 2B6 specific monoclonal inhibitory antibodies, whereby the CYP3A4/5 inhibitory antibody decreased the production of R-3-DCEIF by 51%, while the inhibitory CYP2B6 antibody decreased the production of S-2-DCEIF and S-3-DCEIF by 44 and 43%, respectively, in patient samples. Total renal CYP content is approximately six-fold lower than in the liver.
A highly efficient solvent-free and simple one-pot approach for the synthesis of 4-hydroxythiazolidine-2-thione is described. The reaction of primary amines and carbon disulfide in the presence of 2-chloroacetaldehyde afforded the title compounds in high yields.
Abstract Oligomeric addition products formed between lithium t-butoxide and one, two, three or more equivalents of trichloroacetaldehyde were trapped by acetylation and then identified by gas chromatography and proton nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Individual diastereomers were recognized. Product formation was found to be sensitive to both the addition and endcapping temperatures employed.
These experiments report the dissociative photoionization of vinoxy radicals to m/z = 15 and 29. In a crossed laser-molecular beam scattering apparatus, we induce C-Cl bond fission in 2-chloroacetaldehyde by photoexcitation at 157 nm. Our velocity measurements, combined with conservation of angular momentum, show that 21% of the C-Cl photofission events form vinoxy radicals that are stable to subsequent dissociation to CH3 + CO or H + ketene. Photoionization of these stable vinoxy radicals, identified by their velocities, which are momentum-matched with the higher-kinetic-energy Cl atom photofragments, shows that the vinoxy radicals dissociatively photoionize to give signal at m/z = 15 and 29. We calibrated the partial photoionization cross section of vinoxy to CH3+ relative to the bandwidth-averaged photoionization cross section of the Cl atom at 13.68 eV to put the partial photoionization cross sections on an absolute scale. The resulting bandwidth-averaged partial cross sections are 0.63 and 1.3 Mb at 10.5 and 11.44 eV, respectively. These values are consistent with the upper limit to the cross section estimated from a study by Savee et al. on the O(3P) + propene bimolecular reaction. We note that the uncertainty in these values is primarily dependent on the signal attributed to C-Cl primary photofission in the m/z = 35 (Cl+) time-of-flight data. While the value is a rough estimate, the bandwidth-averaged partial photoionization cross section of vinoxy to HCO+ calculated from the signal at m/z = 29 at 11.53 eV is approximately half that of vinoxy to CH3+. We also present critical points on the potential energy surface of the vinoxy cation calculated at the G4//B3LYP/6-311++G(3df,2p) level of theory to support the observation of dissociative ionization of vinoxy to both CH3+ and HCO+.
A powerful three-component reaction for the synthesis of bicyclic thiazolidinethiones and oxazolidinones at room temp. in water, starting from readily available amines, chloroacetaldehyde, and CS2/CO2, is described. A simple one-pot procedure allows the construction of two new cyclic systems and four new bonds, with all reactants being efficiently utilized in this transformation. KHCO3 is used as a productive source of CO2. Broad potential for derivatization is demonstrated.
Abstract Porous titanium dioxide pellets modified with copper(II) ion (Cu-TiO2) were synthesized by sol-gel method with dialysis for photocatalytic degradation of gaseous trichloroethylene (TCE) under visible light (VL) irradiation. TCE was completely degraded by passing the gas stream (mole fractions of oxygen and TCE were 0.2 and 1.75 × 10−4, respectively) at the flow rate of 25 mL min−1 through 0.2 g of the Cu-TiO2 pellets (Cu content: 0.1 atom%) calcined at 200 °C. TCE was converted mainly to carbon dioxide, dichloroacetic acid (DCAA), and inorganic chlorine species. Relatively small quantities of pentachloroethane (PCA) and trichloroacetaldehyde (TCAH) were detected as products on the Cu-TiO2 surface. Comparison with porous TiO2 pellets under ultraviolet irradiation revealed that more chlorinated products and less carbon dioxide were formed on Cu-TiO2 under VL irradiation. The mineralization of TCE to carbon dioxide was calculated to be only ca. 30.0%. It is noted that DCAA, PCA and TCAH were accumulated on the surface and were extracted with ethyl acetate. The porous Cu-TiO2 pellets show promise as the photocatalyst acting under VL irradiation for converting TCE gas to chlorinated compounds which can be used in industries.
The bacterial degradation and detoxification of chlorinated xenobiotic compounds requires the production of enzymes that are capable of recognizing and converting compounds which do not occur at significant concentrations in nature. We have studied the catabolic route of 1,2-dichloroethane as an example of a pathway for the conversion of such a synthetic compound. In strains of Xanthobacter and Ancylobacter that have been isolated on 1,2-dichloroethane, the first catabolic step is catalyzed by a hydrolytic haloalkane dehalogenase. The enzyme converts 1,2-dichloroethane to 2-chloroethanol but is also active with many other environmentally important haloalkanes such as methylchloride, methylbromide, 1,2-dibromoethane, epichlorohydrin, and 1,3-dichloropropene. Further degradation of 2-chloroethanol proceeds by oxidation to the carboxylic acid and dehalogenation to glycolate. The aldehyde dehydrogenase prevents toxicity of the reactive chloroacetaldehyde that is formed as an intermediate and is necessary for establishing a functional 2-chloroethanol degradative pathway in a strain that is not capable of growth on this compound.
We described here a simple method for the preparation of 1-aryl-2-chloro-1-ethoxyethenes 2a–u, which are prodrugs for Alzheimer's disease, by the reaction of dichloroacetaldehyde diethyl acetal with various aryl and alkenyllithium compounds in high yields. (© Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, 69451 Weinheim, Germany, 2007)
Abstract Aldehydes polymerize readily with cationic and anionic initiators to polyacetals. Higher aliphatic aldehydes are conveniently polymerized with anionic initiators at low temperatures, frequently to isotactic polyaldehydes. The range of known polyaldehydes has recently been extended to poly( n -dodecaldehyde). Polymers with side chains longer than C 3 possess the characteristics of the crystallization of the aliphatic side chain separate and in addition to the crystallization of the main chain. An NMR investigation of the rate of polymerization and copolymerization of chloral showed that the polymerization becomes diffusion controlled above approximately 40% conversion. At that conversion small molecules are entrapped in the polymer matrix and individual parts of these molecules have different mobility as may be detected by NMR. Bromal has recently been polymerized at low temperatures where its crystallization was avoided by judicious selection of solvent and temperature of polymerization. The tribromomethyl group of bromal is the largest side group of any monomer which has ever been polymerized. Dichlorobromoacetaldehyde and chlorodibromoacetaldehyde were synthesized and polymerized to what are completely insoluble and apparently isotactic polymers. Fluorodichloroacetaldehyde and difluorochloracetaldehyde were also synthesized and polymerized. Fluorodichloroacetaldehyde gives only insoluble and apparently isotactic polymers. Difluorochloroacetaldehyde gave soluble amorphous polymers in addition to crystalline polymers. Future trends in aldehyde and carbonyl polymerization are discussed and attempts have been made to identify unsolved problems in this area. The successful preparation of tetrachloroethylene oxide, in good yield, has been disclosed together with the failure of all attempts to homopolymerize this compound or copolymerize it with potential comonomers.
The relative free energy difference (ΔΔGhyd) for the reversible addition of water to two unsaturated molecules is accurately computed using a combination of ab initio quantum mechanical calculations and free energy perturbation methods. Initial attempts to calculate the absolute hydration free energy difference (ΔGhyd) for formaldehyde and trichloroacetaldehyde gave values that differed substantially from experimental results even after inclusion of electron correlation energy contributions using third-order (MP3) and fourth-order (MP4) Moller-Plesset perturbation theory and QCISD(T) correlation methods at the 6-31G** basis set level. Inaccuracies in ΔGhyd were attributed to errors in the calculation of both ΔGgas and ΔΔGsol. Gas phase quantum mechanical free energies (ΔGgas) varied significantly (2–3 kcal/mol) depending on the level of theory. Errors in ΔΔGsol were attributed to slow convergence of the calculations using the thermodynamic cycle perturbation (TCP) method with explicit solvent. These errors were minimized or canceled, however, when relative hydration free energy differences (ΔΔGhyd) were calculated using a combination of ab initio quantum mechanical calculations and free energy perturbation methods. Calculated values for a variety of aldehydes and ketones were consistent with experimental data. © 1995 John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
The effect of DNA conformation on the reaction specificities of the chemical carcinogen glycidaldehyde (GDA) was examined. Supercoiled plasma DNA harboring a poly(dG)-poly(dC) tract, which folds sharply into halves from the center of the tract to form a tetra-stranded structure containing either a dG.dG.dC triplex structure in the presence of Mg2+ or a dC+.dC.dC triplex structure in the absence of Mg2+ was chosen as the reaction substrate. The reactive sites alkylated by GDA were determined at a single base resolution after these sites were specifically cleaved with a combination of either the hydrazine and piperidine or formic acid and piperidine reactions. The results show that at pH 5-7, GDA reacts preferentially with DNA bases that are involved in the altered DNA conformations. Interestingly, in addition to the known reaction of GDA with guanine residues, it was also found to be highly reactive with specific cytosine residues that reside in the altered DNA conformations. These GDA-reactive cytosine residues were unpaired as judged by their reactivity with the unpaired DNA base specific probe, chloroacetaldehyde. Therefore, it appears that DNA conformation plays a major role in determining the reaction specificities of GDA.
Seventeen amide and urea derivatives of bromal and dichloroacetaldehyde and one brominated derivative of butyl acrylamide were synthesized and their physical constants determined. These compounds were subjected to tests for antifungal activity toward Trichophyton rubrum, Microsporum gypsum , and Aspergillus niger . All but one of the bromal compounds studied showed fungus-inhibiting properties; of the dichloroacetaldehyde derivatives, however, only the acrylamide and methacrylamide derivatives indicated activity. Total halogen content and terminal halogen groups appeared to be factors in enhancing the antifungal activity.
Abstract A fluorescent analogue of 2—5A, ppp5′ ϵA2′p5′ϵA2′p5′ϵA, was obtained by reaction of 2′, 5′ (pA) 3 with chloroacetaldehyde followed by conversion to the 5-triphosphate through reaction of the corresponding phosphoroimidazolide with pyrophosphate anion. The 5′-monophosphate, p5′ϵA2′p5′ϵA2′p5′ϵA, was not an antagonist of 2—5A action in extracts of mouse L cells. Neither did the 5′-triphosphate, ppp5′ϵA2′p5′ϵA2′p5′ϵA, inhibit translation. Moreover, the 5′-triphosphate was bound to the 2—5A-dependent endonuclease 5000-times less effectively than 2—5A itself.
Abstract This study is devoted to investigate the opportunities of a plasma-catalytic system with CeO2 downstream (i.e. PPC-Post Plasma-catalysis) for the abatement of trichloroethylene (TCE), a typical chlorinated VOC, from dry air. A multi-pin-to-plate negative DC corona/glow discharge is used and showed poor COx selectivity despite having high abatement efficiency due to the formation of oxygenated intermediates such as phosgene, dichloroacetylchloride (DCAC) and trichloroacetaldehyde (TCAA), when operated alone. Nonetheless, NTP enables catalyst activation at lower temperature. As a result, suppression of unwanted chlorinated by-products as well as high COx selectivity at lower energy cost have been achieved, proving that this plasma-catalysis route shows great potential as air pollution control technology for low concentrated VOC air streams. Special attention is given to the effect of catalyst temperature, the role of ozone in the plasma–catalytic TCE abatement and the possible synergy between NTP and catalysis. Also, a long term test to evaluate the stability of CeO2 catalyst has also been successfully performed.
Stereo- and chemodivergent enantioselective reaction pathways are observed upon treatment of alkylarylketenes and trichloroacetaldehyde (chloral) with N-heterocyclic carbenes, giving selectively either β-lactones or α-chloro esters.
Polyhaloaldehydes play a special role in aldehyde polymerization. The most prominent trihaloacetaldehyde polymer, polytrichloroacetaldehyde, opened the door to new concepts in polymer chemistry: first, cryotachensic polymerization, the separation of the initiation step from the propagation steps with the ceiling temperature principle for the fabrication of insoluble and infusible polymers, and second, the concept of macromolecular asymmetry and stereospecific and conformationally specific polymerization. Trichloroacetaldhyde could be readily polymerized with a wide range of anionic (and also some cationic) initiators. When the anionic polymerization was initiated with chiral anions, it gave polychloral of one helix sense. To understand the genesis of the polymerization, the oligomerization was investigated to learn how the stereochemistry of the polymerization was established, also in chiral form. All 10 fluoro-, chloro-, and bromo-substituted trihaloacetaldehydes were synthesized as necessary and polymerized, and the polymers were investigated. © 2000 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. J Polym Sci A: Polym Chem 38: 2623–2634, 2000
Studies of the DNA polymorphic structure and especially supercoil-stabilized local DNA structures require highly sensitive techniques capable of recognizing small changes in the DNA double helix which may involve less than 1% of the DNA molecule and/or occur in only a fraction of the DNA molecule population. In recent years, it has been shown that chemical probes are highly suitable for this purpose (reviewed in Palecek 1991; Yagil 1991; Palecek et al. 1992). Among them, single-strand selective probes such as chloroacetaldehyde, diethyl pyrocarbonate, potassium permanganate, and osmium tetroxide complexes have been especially useful in the studies of various kinds of local DNA structures. Practical aspects and experimental details of this research have recently been described in Volume 212 B of Methods in Enzymology.
Purpose: To study the interplay of drugs and energy metabolism of tumor cells, metabolic changes induced by chloroacetaldehyde and cytochalasin B were analyzed in colon carcinoma cells LS174T. Methods: O2-consumption and extracellular acidification were recorded using a bioelectronic sensor-chip system, which monitors these parameters in a culture continuously for at least 24 h. In parallel cultures cell number, cellular ATP-content, mitochondrial transmembrane potential, and the content of reactive oxygen species (ROS) were determined. Results: When cell death was induced by chloroacetaldehyde (50 μM), the rate of acidification declined gradually for the next 15 h, while O2-consumption decreased rapidly within 30 min. This correlated with a loss in mitochondrial potential. However, cellular ATP-level showed a transient increase at 2 h; also ROS levels increased up to 6 h. In cells treated with cytochalasin B (2 μM), which inhibits glucose uptake, the rate of O2-consumption increased and the acidification activity dropped, even upon glutamine depletion. Mitochondrial membrane potential transiently increased after 1 h, while ATP-content decreased; there was no change in the level of ROS. Conclusion: The pattern of changes in basic energy metabolism differs with the type of cell death and growth inhibition involved in the cytotoxic action of two different drugs.
2-Nitrophenol condenses with trichloroacetaldehyde in the presence of concentrated sulphuric acid to give among other products 2,2-di(3-nitro-4-hydroxyphenyl)-1,1,1-trichloroethane and smaller amounts of 8-nitro-2,4-bis(trichloromethyl)-1,3-benzodioxin. To investigate the possible steric effect of the nitro group ortho to the phenolic oxygen atom in such condensations, the molecular structure of this benzodioxin and that of 8-nitro-6-methyl-2,4-bis(trichloromethyl)-1,3-benzodioxin were determined by single crystal X-ray diffraction analysis and compared with those of 6-nitro- and 6,8-dinitro-2,4-bis(trichloromethyl)-1,3-benzodioxin and related compounds.
Irradiations of C/sub 3/H/sub 5/Cl/NO/sub x/, C/sub 3/H/sub 5/Cl/C/sub 2/H/sub 6//NO/sub x/, and C/sub 2/H/sub 6//NO/sub x/ mixtures were conducted in a 22.7-m/sup 3/ Teflon smog chamber, operated in a static mode. The irradiated mixtures were tested for mutagenic activity by periodically exposing Salmonella typhimurium strain TA100 to the smog chamber effluent during the irradiation. The allyl chloride photooxidation products' total mutagenic activity was found to be dramatically dependent on the presence of Cl atom reaction products. In the absence of C/sub 2/H/sub 6/, which is used as a Cl atom scavenger, the observed mutagenic activity of the irradiated C/sub 3/H/sub 5/Cl/NO/sub x/ mixture at long extent of reaction was 13 revertants-plate/sup -1/-h/sup -1/-(ppb C/sub 3/H/sub 5/Cl consumed)/sup -1/. However, when sufficient C/sub 2/H/sub 6/ was present to remove all Cl atoms, the observed mutagenic activity for C/sub 3/H/sub 5/Cl photooxidation products was 1.4 revertants-plate/sup -1/-h/sup -1/-(ppb C/sub 3/H/sub 5/Cl consume)/sup -1/. Under conditions of excess C/sub 2/H/sub 6/, the mixture is approximately 30 times more mutagenic than that previously observed for the mutagenic activity of the photooxidation products of propylene, the nonchlorinated analogue of allyl chloride. The observed mutagenic activity in the presence of excess C/sub 2/H/sub 6/ ismore » consistent with the total response caused by chloroacetaldehyde, a primary C/sub 3/H/sub 5/Cl photooxidation product.« less
Abstract The molecular structure of gaseous (Z)-chloroacetaldehyde oxime has been determined by gas-phase electron diffraction and molecular structure optimization has been carried out by molecular orbital calculations. The molecular skeleton is planar and the potential barrier height to internal rotation around the C C bond ( V 1 ) was estimated to be 2.7 kcal mol −1 . The geometrical parameters obtained are: r g ( Cl)=1.789±0.001A, r g (C C)=1.513±0.003A, r g (C N)=1.284±0.001A, r g (N O)=1.416±0.001A, ∠CCCl=109.7±0.2°, ∠CCN=124.9±0.3°, ∠CNO=110.6±0.2°.
The bacterial degradation and detoxification of chlorinated xenobiotic compounds requires the production of enzymes that are capable of recognizing and converting compounds which do not occur at significant concentrations in nature. We have studied the catabolic route of 1,2-dichloroethane as an example of a pathway for the conversion of such a synthetic compound. In strains of Xanthobacter and Ancylobacter that have been isolated on 1,2-dichloroethane, the first catabolic step is catalyzed by a hydrolytic haloalkane dehalogenase. The enzyme converts 1,2-dichloroethane to 2-chloroethanol but is also active with many other environmentally important haloalkanes such as methylchloride, methylbromide, 1,2-dibromoethane, epichlorohydrin, and 1,3-dichloropropene. Further degradation of 2-chloroethanol proceeds by oxidation to the carboxylic acid and dehalogenation to glycolate. The aldehyde dehydrogenase prevents toxicity of the reactive chloroacetaldehyde that is formed as an intermediate and is necessary for establishing a functional 2-chloroethanol degradative pathway in a strain that is not capable of growth on this compound. -Environ Health Perspect 103(Suppl 5): 29-32 (1995) 
Bromal has recently been polymerized at low temperatures where its crystallization was avoided by judicious selection of solvent and temperature of polymerization. The tribromomethyl group of bromal is the largest side group of any monomer which has ever been polymerized. Dichlorobromoacetaldehyde and chlorodibromoacetaldehyde were synthesized and polymerized to what are completely insoluble and apparently isotactic polymers. Fluorodichloroacetaldehyde and difluorochloracetaldehyde were also synthesized and polymerized. Fluorodichloroacetaldehyde gives only insoluble and apparently isotactic polymers. Difluorochloroacetaldehyde gave soluble amorphous polymers in addition to crystalline polymers.
Abstract: Stereo-and chemodivergent enantioselective reactionp athways are observed upon treatment of alkylarylketenes andt richloroacetaldehyde (chloral)w ith N-heterocyclic carbenes, giving selectively either b-lactones( up to 88:12dr, up to 94 % ee)o ra-chloroesters (up to 94 % ee). Either 2-arylsubstitution or an a-branched iPr alkyl substituent within the ketene favourst he chlorination pathway,a llowing chloralt ob eu sed as an electrophilic chlorinating reagent in asymmetric catalysis.
Isophosphoramide mustard (IPM) (Figure 1 ) is the active metabolite of ifosfamide (IFOS) and a bifunctional DNA alkylator that generates guanine-cytosine interstrand cross-linking in G-X-C sequences producing cell death [1, 2] . Although IPM is the ultimate alkylator that is derived from IFOS, it has been removed from clinical trials because of lack of sufficient anticancer activity in clinical trials [3] [4] [5] . IFOS is still the phosphoramide mustard that is most used in sarcoma therapy; however, its use is hampered by requirement for hepatic activation and release of extracellular acrolein (ACR) and chloroacetaldehyde (CAA)-resulting in dose limiting cystitis, renal toxicity, and neurotoxicity, plus myelosuppression [6, 7] . Figure 1 ) is a peroxide derivative of IFOS that spontaneously undergoes ring cleavage releasing acrolein and chloroacetaldehyde primarily in situ in cancer cells, not extracellularly in the general circulation as does IFOS [8] [9] [10] . The support data for HOOI's anticancer activity and toxicity is reviewed here.
The pyrolysates of chloroacetaldehyde and its methyl derivatives have been investigated by pyrolysis-mass spectrometry and microwave spectroscopy. Ketene was generated by dehydrochlorination of chloroacetaldehyde. Ketene and s-trans-acrolein were produced by the elimination of methyl chloride and by dehydrochlorination from 1- and 2-chloropropionaldehyde respectively. These facts indicate that the pyrolysis mechanisms of the precursors differ according to the position of the methyl group substituted. Methyl vinyl ketone observed from 3-chloro-2-butanone suggests that the dehydrochlorination is more dominant than the elimination of methyl chloride observed in 1-chloropropionaldehyde, and that this mechanism is quite similar to that for 2-chloropropionaldehyde. Moreover, some interesting pyrolysates, such as acetaldehyde and methyl chloride, were generated from chloroacetaldehyde, vinyl chloride from 1-chloro-propionaldehyde, and methyl acetylene and propene from 3-chloro-2-butanone. As these pyrolysates, with the exception of acetaldehyde, do not include oxygen, their pyrolysis mechanisms can not be explained without the elimination of carbon monoxide.
Many Oriental people possess a liver mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase where glutamate at position 487 has been replaced by a lysine, and they have very low levels of mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase activity. To investigate the cause of the lack of activity of this aldehyde dehydrogenase, we mutated residue 487 of rat and human liver mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase to a lysine and expressed the mutant and native enzyme forms in Escherichia coli. Both rat and human recombinant aldehyde dehydrogenases showed the same molecular and kinetic properties as the enzyme isolated from liver mitochondria. The E487K mutants were found to be active but possessed altered kinetic properties when compared to the glutamate enzyme. The Km for NAD+ at pH 7.4 increased more than 150-fold, whereas kcat decreased 2-10-fold with respect to the recombinant native enzymes. Detailed steady-state kinetic analysis showed that the binding of NAD+ to the mutant enzyme was impaired, and it could be calculated that this resulted in a decreased nucleophilicity of the active site cysteine residue. The rate-limiting step for the rat E487K mutant was also different from that of the recombinant rat liver aldehyde dehydrogenase in that no pre-steady-state burst of NADH formation was found with the mutant enzyme. Both the rat native enzyme and the E487K mutant oxidized chloroacetaldehyde twice as fast as acetaldehyde, indicating that the rate-limiting step was not hydride transfer or coenzyme dissociation but depended upon nucleophilic attack. Each enzyme form showed a 2-fold activation upon the addition of Mg2+ ions. Substituting a glutamine for the glutamate did not grossly affect the properties of the enzyme. Glutamate 487 may interact directly with the positive nicotinamide ring of NAD+ for the Ki of NADH was the same in the lysine enzyme as it was in the glutamate form. Because of the altered NAD+ binding properties and kcat of the E487K variant, it is assumed that people possessing this form will not have a functional mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase.
The present invention discloses the synthesis of a packed column and its production process chloroacetaldehyde, chloroacetaldehyde synthetic production processes of the packed column, comprising a packing step, heating step, reaction step and a discharge step of the pressure relief reception; said chloroacetamide aldehyde solution in the aldehyde content of greater than 10%, the acid content of 13%, since the corrosion-resistant ceramic material, the corrugated packing the residence time of the gas can be made in pure water increase, so that the reaction was carried out sufficient reaction, the reaction fuller, reduces the content of impurities in the product, reducing production time, improving the production yield, the present invention relates to the production of filler-free comparison, the production time is reduced by 20%, the yield increased to 3.2 times, reduce the content trichloroethane 60%.
Abstract The adenine base of 2′,3′-dideoxyadenosine-5′-triphosphate (ddATP) was chosen as the target for precapillary derivatization for its analysis by CE with fluorescence detection. Several fluorophores, such as chloroacetaldehyde, 9-fluorenylmethyloxycarbonylchloride (FMOC), fluorescamine (Fluram), o-phthaldialdehyde (OPA) and complexation with terbium (Tb), gadolinium (Gd), and phenanthroline (phen) were tried. Precapillary derivatization of ddATP with chloroacetaldehyde showed poor peak shape for the e-ddATP adduct and degradation peaks of e-adenine, possibly due to the low sample pH of 4.0. Precapillary derivatization of ddATP with OPA/β-mercaptoethanol, Fluram, and FMOC showed no fluorescent derivatization products. Complexation of ddATP with Tb-Gd-phen produced a sharp fluorescent peak. The sensitivity of the Tb-Gd-ddATP-phen complex was found to be 20 times higher than UV detection of ddATP.
Stereo- and chemodivergent enantioselective reaction pathways are observed upon treatment of alkylarylketenes and trichloroacetaldehyde (chloral) with N-heterocyclic carbenes, giving selectively either β-lactones (up to 88:12 dr, up to 94 % ee) or α-chloroesters (up to 94 % ee). Either 2-arylsubstitution or an α-branched iPr alkyl substituent within the ketene favours the chlorination pathway, allowing chloral to be used as an electrophilic chlorinating reagent in asymmetric catalysis.
In our previous studies, chloral hydrate has been the only chlorinated acetaldehyde determined in drinking water because authentic standards of other related haloacetaldehydes were not available. Recently, standards of dichloroacetaldehyde, bromochloroacetaldehyde, dibromoacetaldehyde, bromodichloroacetaldehyde, chlorodibromoacetaldehyde, and tribromoacetaldehyde have become available commercially. They were obtained and verified for purity and stability using a dual-column GC-ECD system. Each commercial standard was found to contain small amounts of the other target haloacetaldehydes (HAs). The stability of the HAs stock solutions was solvent dependent: in acetone, the brominated species partially degraded to bromoacetone, while all target HAs were stable in MTBE for up to 8 months. The analytical parameters, required for the quantification of HAs in water, were determined and used to evaluate the stability of the HAs in water. Under the conditions of the sampling protocol (field pH adjustment to pH 4.5 and storage at 4 degrees C), the target HAs were stable in water for up to 14 days. However, at typical drinking water pH and temperature conditions, the stability varied with the HA species, pH, temperature and storage period. The trihalogenated acetaldehydes degraded, in part, to their corresponding trihalomethanes (THMs) at increasing pH and temperature. Most target HAs were detected in drinking water samples collected from various Canadian drinking water systems, and the speciation was dependent on water parameters (e.g. bromide concentration) and treatment processes. From the water samples analysed, chloral hydrate ranged between 7% and 51% of the total HAs (w/w). The weigh ratio of total HAs to total THMs (10-46%) indicated that HAs contributed significantly to the pool of DBPs in drinking water.
Abstract The fungus-inhibiting properties of a series of amides of dichloroacetaldehyde and bromal were studied. Three of the compounds showed antifungal activity when subjected to tests with Aspergillus niger and Tricboderma viride . Terminal chlorine atoms appeared to be a factor in enhancing the antifungal activity.
Liquid trypticase soy broth media was buffered with Prideaux and Ward's universal buffer to neutral and basic pH levels (pH 7 to 10 inclusive). Preservative solutions of various concentrations were added to tubes containing the media, After inoculation of the tubes with a slurry obtained from soil samples suspended in water, these preparations were examined for preservative effectiveness over a 6-month period. In most cases preservative effectiveness varied with pH alteration. The preservative activity ranged from negligible with cinnamic acid and some of its derivatives, the amides of bromal and dichloroacetaldehyde, sorbic acid and dehydroacetic acid-sodium, to fair in the case of parabens and salicylanilide, to good with cetrimide, chlorophenesin, vanillic acid esters, hexylresorcinol, hexachlorophene, and phenylethanol.
An alternative assay for replacing animal experiments should serve the specific microphysiological needs of the cells and be endowed with multiparametric signal monitoring. These requirements are provided by a test system in which the key elements are biocompatible electronic sensor-chips. It is also connected to a medium perfusion set-up, which allows to control the supply of nutrients and test compounds, and the removal of culture medium. The chips are equipped with sensors that continuously monitor basic metabolic parameters and membrane-associated changes of living cells: pH-ISFETs for extracellular acidification, amperometric O2-sensors for oxygen consumption, and IDES for electrical impedance of the cell layer. Experiments with LS174T colon carcinoma cells in culture show the metabolic and electrical changes upon incubation with Zytochalasin B and chloroacetaldehyde. The signal patterns vary and indicate different mechanisms of action for these test compounds. With this test system it is possible to detect effects of unknown substances and mixtures, and to analyse the cellular probe for prolonged times.
The reaction of chloroacetaldehyde with single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) yields epsilon DNA, a highly fluorescent substance. The binding of recA protein to epsilon DNA nearly doubles its fluorescence yield. The enhanced fluorescence signals the formation of a recA-epsilon DNA complex. This complex exhibits an ATPase activity as great as that of the corresponding recA-ssDNA complex. Addition of a saturating concentration of adenosine 5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate) (ATP gamma S) to a solution of the recA-epsilon DNA complex yields a further rise in fluorescence. Saturation with ATP produces the same rise. The nucleotide triphosphates have converted the recA-epsilon DNA complex into the respective ATP gamma S-recA-epsilon DNA and ATP-recA-epsilon DNA complexes. The fluorescence changes that accompany the formation of the three complexes have enabled us to (1) establish by titration that recA protein binds to 6.0 +/- 0.3 nucleotides of epsilon DNA, (2) show that the binding of ATP to the recA-epsilon DNA complex is highly cooperative under various conditions, with a Hill coefficient of 2.4-4.9 and Kapp = 25 +/- 2 micro M, (3) show that the binding of ATP gamma S is also highly cooperative, with a Hill coefficient of 3.3-4.2 and Kapp congruent to 0.5 micro M, and (4) perform initial measurements on the rate at which recA protein transfers between polynucleotides. The experiments provide the first direct observation of an ATP-recA-ssDNA-like complex, and they illuminate some of the properties of such complexes.
Ifosfamide (IFO) requires metabolic activation by hydroxylation of the ring system to exert cytotoxic activity. A second metabolic pathway produces the cytostatically inactive metabolites 2-dechloroethyl-ifosfamide (2-D-IFO) and 3-dechloroethyl-ifosfamide (3-D-IFO) under release of chloroacetaldehyde. This side-chain metabolism has been suggested to be involved in CNS- and renal toxicity. The total urinary excretion of ifosfamide and its metabolites was investigated during 23 cycles in 22 children at doses ranging from 400 mg/m2 to 3 g/m2. The kinetics of the excretion were compared following short-term and continuous ifosfamide infusion at a dosage of 3 g/m2. IFO and side-chain metabolites were analyzed by gas chromatography, the active metabolites by indirect determination of acrolein (ACR) and IFO mustard (IFO-M) with the NBP test. 59+/-15% of the applied dose could be recovered in the urine, 23+/-9% as unmetabolized IFO. The main metabolite was 3-D-IFO (14+/-4%) followed by isophosphoramide mustard (IFO-M) (13+/-4%) and 2-D-IFO (8+/-3%). Neither the total amount recovered nor the excretion kinetics of ifosfamide and side-chain metabolites showed obvious schedule dependency. The excretion kinetics of side-chain metabolites as well as unmetabolized IFO were nearly superimposable on short-term and continuous infusion. Even after 1-hour infusion there was a lag of 3 - 6 hours until dechloroethylation became relevant. Therefore, differences in toxicity and efficacy cannot be explained by an influence of the application time on the metabolic profile of ifosfamide.
The combined action of glycosylases and abasic site-specific endonucleases on damaged bases in DNA results in single strand breaks. In plasmid DNA, as a consequence, the covalently closed circular (ccc) form is converted to the open circular (oc) form, and this can be quantitated by agarose gel electrophoresis. We studied DNA lesions sensitive to E. coli 3-methyladenine-DNA glycosylase II (AlkA) and cloned human N-alkylpurine-DNA glycosylase (ANPG-40) which are known to excise alkylated bases and etheno adducts. pBR322 and pAlk10 plasmids not pretreated with mutagens were cleaved by both glycosylases in the presence of enzymes possessing endonucleolytic activity, which indicates that plasmids contain unknown, endogenously formed adducts. Plasmids pretreated with chloroacetaldehyde, a mutagen forming etheno adducts, exhibited enhanced sensitivity to both glycosylases. Adducts formed by acrolein and croton aldehyde were excised by AlkA, but not by ANPG-40, whereas malondialdehyde adducts were not excised by either glycosylase. Bulky p-benzochinone adducts were not excised by AlkA, however, the plasmid pretreated with this mutagen was incised by endonucleases, possibly without prior generation of an abasic site. These examples show that examination of conformational changes of plasmid DNA can be taken advantage of to study the specificity of N-alkylpurine-DNA-glycosylases.
Abstract: Stereo-and chemodivergent enantioselective reactionp athways are observed upon treatment of alkylarylketenes andt richloroacetaldehyde (chloral)w ith N-heterocyclic carbenes, giving selectively either b-lactones( up to 88:12dr, up to 94 % ee)o ra-chloroesters (up to 94 % ee). Either 2-arylsubstitution or an a-branched iPr alkyl substituent within the ketene favourst he chlorination pathway,a llowing chloralt ob eu sed as an electrophilic chlorinating reagent in asymmetric catalysis.
The 3-β-D-ribofuranoside 6 of the new imidazo[2,1-f][1,2,4]triazine 27 is isomeric and isoelectronic with the nucleoside deaminoformycin 1 which is a good inhibitor of adenosine deaminase (ADA) while its 5′-monophosphate 2 is a good inhibitor of adenosine 5′-monophosphate deaminase (AMPDA). The 6-methylsulfanyl derivative 7 of 6 is synthesized by condensation of the monocyclic 1,2,4-triazine 9 with bromo aldehyde 10, which is accompanied by cyclization to give the protected C-nucleoside 21; the 8-methylsulfanyl group of 21 is removed by replacement by hydrazine and oxidation. The 1,2,4-triazine 9 cyclizes similarly with chloroacetaldehyde or its dimethyl acetal to give 6,8-bis(methylsulfanyl)imidazo[2,1-f][1,2,4]triazine 17, which is converted into the parent heterocycle 27 by two routes, and into mono- and di-substituted derivatives (19, 20, 24, 25, 28–30) of the new ring system. Riboside 7 is an inhibitor of mammalian ADA (IC50 40 µM).
Trichloroethylene (TCE) was metabolized by cytochrome P-450 containing mixed-function oxidase systems to chloral (2,2,2,-trichloroacetaldehyde), glyoxylic acid, formic acid, CO, and TCE oxide. TCE oxide was synthesized, and its breakdown products were analyzed. Under acidic aqueous conditions the primary products were glyoxylic acid and dichloracetic acid. The primary compounds formed under neutral or basic aqueous conditions were formic acid and CO. TCE oxide did not form chloral in any of these or other aqueous systems, even when iron salts, ferriprotoporphyrin IX, or purified cytochrome P-450 was present. Ferric iron salts catalyzed the rearrangement of TCE oxide to chloral only in CH2Cl2 or CH3CN. A 500-fold excess of iron was required for complete conversion. A kinetic model involving the zero-order oxidation of TCE to TCE oxide by cytochrome P-450 and the first-order degradation of the epoxide was used to test the hypothesis that TCE oxide is an obligate intermediate in the conversion of TCE to other metabolites. Kinetic constants fo the breakdown of TCE oxide and for the oxidative metabolism of TCE to stable metabolites were used to predict epoxide concentrations required to support the obligate intermediacy of TCE oxide. The maximum levels of TCE oxide detected in systems using microsomal fractions and purified cytochrome P-450 were 5-28-fold lower than those predicted from the model. The kinetic data and the discrepancies between the observed metabolites and TCE oxide breakdown products support the view that the epoxide is not an obligate intermediate in the formation of chloral, and an alternative model is presented in which chlorine migration occurs in an oxygenated TCE-cytochrome P-450 transition state.
In vitro bioassays have indicated that haloacetamides and haloacetaldehydes exhibit the highest cytotoxicity among DBP classes. Previous research has focused on their potential formation from the chlorination or chloramination of aliphatic compounds, particularly nonaromatic amino acids, and acetaldehyde. The present work found that acetaldehyde served as a relatively poor precursor for trichloroacetaldehyde and dichloroacetamide, generally the most prevalent of the haloacetaldehydes and haloacetamides, during chlorination or chlorination/chloramination. Using phenolic model compounds, particularly 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, as models for structures in humic substances, we found significantly higher formation of trichloroacetaldehyde and dichloroacetamide from prechlorination followed by chloramination. Evaluation of the stoichiometry of chlorine reactions with 4-hydroxybenzoic acid and several intermediates indicated that seven successive Cl[+1] transfers, faster with chlorination than chloramination, can form 2,3,5,5,6-pentachloro-6-hydroxy-cyclohexa-2-ene-1,4-dione via chlorophenol and chlorobenzoquinone intermediates. Formation of 2,3,5,5,6-pentachloro-6-hydroxy-cyclohexa-2-ene-1,4-dione may serve as a key branching point, with chloramines promoting the formation of dichloroacetamide and chlorination promoting the formation of trichloroacetaldehyde. The behavior of 4-hydroxybenzoic acid with respect to yields of dichloroacetamide and trichloroacetaldehyde during chlorination followed by chloramination was similar to the behavior observed for model humic acids and several surface waters, suggesting that phenolic structures in natural waters may serve as the predominant, and common pool of precursors for haloacetamides and haloacetaldehydes. Experiments with natural waters indicated that the branching point is reached over prechlorine exposures (100-500 mg-min/L) relevant to drinking water utilities using chlorine as a primary disinfectant and chloramines for maintenance of a distribution system residual.
New activated difluoroaromatic compounds having an internal acetylenic moiety were synthesized by reaction of trichloroacetaldehyde with fluorobenzene, followed by reaction with iodobenzene and cross coupling with acetylene in the presence of palladium complexes. According to the results of quantum-chemical calculations and 19F NMR data, the products are highly reactive compounds which can be used for the preparation of high-molecular-weight aromatic polyethers.
Abstract The oxidative decomposition of trichloroethylene (TCE; 500–600 ppmv) was investigated in synthetic (dry air) and humid air (RH = 18%) with NTP (non thermal plasma) at atmospheric pressure, both in the absence and presence of lanthanum manganite catalyst at 150 °C. In the absence of catalyst, TCE removal is enhanced with humidity (RH = 18%) while O 3 production is decreased. However, whatever the carrier gas the carbon mass balances are poor amounting to 25–30% due to the presence of polychlorinated by-products such as phosgene, dichloroacetyl chloride (DCAC) and trichloroacetaldehyde (TCAD). In the presence of catalyst, the TCE conversion significantly increased as compared to that of the plasma alone system. The perovskite catalyst can dissociate the in plasma produced ozone to oxygen radicals that decompose TCE. In dry air, the carbon mass balance keep rather poor (35% – 460 J/L) due to the structural transformation of the catalyst with chlorine. In dry air, an optimum temperature of the catalytic reactor is found to be 100 °C resulting from a compromise between catalyst deactivation and enhancement of the catalytic reactions. However, water remarkably promotes the carbon mass balance (75% – 460 J/L) due to the beneficial role of water which acts as a chlorine scavenger at the surface of the catalyst, therefore retarding the perovskite degradation.
Four novel derivatives of 2-amino-9-(beta-D-ribofuranosyl)purine (1) were synthesised and fully characterised. When 1 was reacted with chloroacetaldehyde (a), 2-chloropropanal (b), bromomalonaldehyde (c) and a mixture of chloroacetaldehyde + malonaldehyde (d), 3-(beta-D-ribofuranosyl)-imidazo-[1,2a]purine (2), 3-(beta-D-ribofuranosyl)-5-methylimidazo-[1,2a]purine (3), 3-(beta-D-ribofuranosyl)-5-formylimidazo-[1,2a]purine (4) and 9-(beta-D-ribofuranosyl)-2-(3,5-diformyl-4-methyl-1,4-dihydro-1-pyridyl)purine (5) were formed, respectively. The products were isolated, purified by chromatography and characterised by MS, complete NMR assignment as well as fluorescence and UV spectroscopy. The yields of these reactions were moderate (14-20%). The fluorescence properties differed from those of the starting compound and the quantum yields were considerably lower.
A new and highly sensitive spectrophotometric method is developed for the determination of sub ppm levels of the widely used organophosphorus insecticide dichlorvos. The method is based on alkaline hydrolysis of dichlorvos to dichloroacetaldehyde followed by coupling with diphenyl semicarbazide (DPC) in alkaline medium. The absorption maxima of the wine red dye compound formed is measured at 490 nm. Beer's law is obeyed over the concentration range of 4.3 to 34 μg in a final solution volume of 25 mL (0.18-1.36 ppm). The molar absorptivity, Sandell's sensitivity and correlation coefficient were found to be 2.9 x 10 5 mole -1 cm -1 , 0.013 μg cm -2 and 0.9999, respectively. The standard deviation and relative standard deviation were found to be ± 0.007 and 1.90%, respectively. The lower limit of detection is 0.04 ug. The method is simple, sensitive and free from interferences of other pesticides and diverse ions. Other organophosphorous pesticides do not interfere with the proposed method. The method has been satisfactorily applied to the determination of dichlorvos in environmental and agricultural samples.
Abstract Hepatotoxicity of organophosphorus insecticides, trichlorfon and dichlorvos, a dechlorinated form of the former, was examined in isolated hepatocytes from untreated control and phenobarbital-pretreated (80 mg/kg, i.p., for 3 days) rats. These compounds produced toxic effects on hepatocytes as evidenced by malondialdehyde production and lactate dehydrogenase leakage in a dose-dependent manner up to the concentration of 2 mM, dichlorvos being more toxic than trichlorfon. Hepatocytes from phenobarbital-pretreated rats were more sensitive to these organophosphates than those from control rats. Dichloroacetaldehyde and dichloroacetic acid, metabolites of dichlorvos, did not injure hepatocytes. The toxic effects of dichlorvos on hepatocytes were enhanced by increasing oxygen concentration during the incubation, or by addition of glycolytic substrates (pyruvate, lactate or fructose) to the incubation mixtures. On the other hand, addition of antioxidants (diethyldithiocarbamate or N , N ′-diphenyl- p -phenylenediamine), or cytochrome P -450 inhibitors (SKF-525A or metyrapone) to the incubation mixtures attenuated malondialdehyde production caused by dichlorvos and protected cells from death. Addition of dichlorvos to the incubation mixtures of hepatic microsomes stimulated lipid peroxidation in the presence of NADPH, which was inhibited by further addition of superoxide dismutase but not catalase. These results suggest that hepatotoxicity of trichlorfon and dichlorvos are related to their peroxidative property in microsomes which is accelerated by oxygen.
Abstract The reaction of trifluoroacetaldehyde N , O -acetals with more than 2 equiv of alkyllithiums at −78 °C resulted in regiospecific defluorinative alkylation with unusual regioselectivity to give α,α-difluoroketone N , O -acetals in excellent yield. In contrast, under similar conditions, trichloroacetaldehyde N , O -acetals gave simple mono-dechlorinated product without the alkyl transfer reaction from alkyllithiums to the generated intermediates.
Camalexin [3-(2 ' -thiazolyl)indole] (1) is a natural phytoalexin, isolated for the first time from the leaves of Camelina sativa and elicited by the fungus Alternaria brassicae [1] . Camalexin is also the principal phytoalexin found in Arabidopsis thaliana [2] . It exhibits antifungal activity similar to the systemic fungicide thiabendazole (2) [1, 3] and also has antitumor activity [4] . In the literature there are described four methods for synthesis of camalexin, based on the reaction of indolylmagnesium iodide with 2-bromothiazole [3] , heating of indole-3-carboxamide with P 2 S 5 and chloroacetaldehyde diethyl acetal in ethanol [5] , reductive cyclization of 2-formamidophenyl-2´-thiazolylketone upon heating with TiCl 3 and zinc dust [6] and reaction of 1-sulfonyl-3-iodoindole with active zinc and following Pd catalyzed arylation with 2-iodothiazole [7] . Recently, it has been suggested that the biosynthesis of camalexin involves the condensation of indole-3-carboxaldehyde with cysteine followed by a two-step oxidation and decarboxylation [8, 9] . In the presence work we have studied the synthesis of camalexin according to this biosynthetic scheme.
Background: AlkB dioxygenase removes alkyl and exocyclic lesions via an oxidative mechanism restoring the native DNA bases. Results: AlkB repair efficiency is pH-and Fe(II) -concentration -dependent, which correlates with the substrate pK a . Conclusion: AlkB recognizes and repairs protonated substrates. Significance: This study provides experimental evidence for the molecular mechanism of action of AlkB. Exocyclic DNA base adducts are produced by a variety of bifunctional electrophilic agents of exogenous and endogenous origin. These agents include products of endogenous lipid peroxidation occurring as a consequence of oxidative stress: α,β-unsaturated aldehydes (enals) such as malondialdehyde, acrolein (ACR) 2 , crotonaldehyde or trans-4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (1). Other sources of such compounds are environmental pollutants (tobacco smoke, automobile exhaust), dietary toxins (formed, for example, in over-fried food) or metabolites of the industrial carcinogen vinyl chloridechloroethylene epoxide and chloroacetaldehyde (CAA).
N-(Trifluoromethylsulfonyl) and N-arylsulfonyl polychloroacetaldehyde imines reacted with pyrrole, 1-alkyl-, 1-benzyl-, and 1-(4-nitrophenyl)-substituted pyrroles, and bis-pyrroles to give the corresponding 2-[1-(sulfonylamino)polychloroethyl]-1H-pyrroles or mixtures of 2- and 3-[1-(sulfonylamino)polychloroethyl]-1H-pyrroles, depending on the nature of the Schiff base and substituent on the pyrrole nitrogen atom and reaction conditions. The first synthesis of 2,5-disubstituted NH-pyrrole by reaction of pyrrole with Schiff bases was described.
1-Trichloromethyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-β-carboline (TaClo, 2) is a mammalian alkaloid that readily originates in the human organism, by Pictet-Spengler condensation of endogenously present tryptamine (Ta) and the non-natural hypnotic agent trichloroacetaldehyde (chloral, Clo). Due to its structural analogy to the neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP, 1), TaClo is discussed to possibly contribute to the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease acting as an environmental toxin. Previous investigations on rats and neuronal cell cultures revealed 2 to be capable of inducing severe disturbances on the dopamine metabolism. In this paper, we report on the effects of 2 on the activity of tyrosine hydroxylase [L-tyrosine, tetrayhydropteridine/ oxygen oxidoreductase (3-hydroxylating), EC 1.14,16.2; TH] in vitro using rat brain homogenates prepared from the TH-rich nucleus accumbens. TaClo (2) dose-dependently inhibited basal TH activity (IC 50 = 3 μM), and after enzyme activation by pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP-27), it also reduced L-DOPA formation (IC 50 = 15 μM). Moreover, two presumable TaClo metabolites, 2-methyl-TaClo (N-Me-TaClo, 3) and 1-dichloromethylene-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-β-carboline (1-CCl 2 -THβC, 4), which were synthesized in good yields, also proved to be potent inhibitors of TH, with the strongest effect on basal activity (similar to TaClo) being observed for 3 (IC 50 =3 μM). In contrast to TaClo, however, 3 and 4 showed biphasic effects after TH activation with PACAP-27, inducing a marked increase of enzyme activity in the nanomolar range (<0.1 μM), while TH activity was nearly completely blocked at high concentrations (IC 100 =0.1 mM). An X-ray diffraction investigation on the 3-dimensional structure of the 1-CCl 2 -THβC-derived trifluoroacetamide 7 revealed the voluminous and quite rigid dichloromethylene substituent to be only moderately twisted out of the β-carboline ring 'plane', thus resulting in an inreased ring strain of the partially hydrogenated pyrido moiety accompanied by a strong steric hindrance of Cl(1), Cl(2), C(13), and N(2), which pushes the N-trifluoroacetyl group upwards to an even higher extent than for the TaClo-related trifluoroacetamide 8.
A new mutagenesis assay based on the induction of mutations in isolated transforming DNA of Bacillus subtilis is described. The assay tests the ability of chemical to induce lesions in isolated DNA which lead to reversion of the ilvB2 base-substitution or leuA169 frameshift mutations which are carried by the recipient cells that are transformed with the treated DNA. This report demonstrates the capacity of the assay to detect as mutagens the following DNA-reactive chemicals: hydroxylamine (HA); N-methyl-N′-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG); chloroacetaldehyde (CAA); propylene oxide (PO) and N-acetyl-N-acetoxy-2-aminofluorene (AAAF). The later 4 chemicals were reacted with the test DNAs in a dimethyl formamide-containing buffer which was used both to maintain the denatured DNA in an extended single-stranded state and to increase the solubilities of the chemicals. The relative mutagenic activities of the compounds in this buffer system were PO < MNNG < AAAF < CAA. In addition to mutagenesis, the capacity of the test compounds to inactivate transforming activity and disrupt gene linkages in the treated DNAs also was assayed. PO, although a much weaker mutagen than CAA, produced more extensive disruption of gene linkage than CAA when compared at concentrations which produced comparable levels of inactivation of transforming activity. ::: ::: The new mutagenesis assay offers 2 advantages over previously described transformation-based assays. (1) In contrast to assays based on the induction of ribosome-associated drug resistances, the new assay can detect frameshift as well as base-substitution type mutagens. (2) The mutants generated can be detected at high cell-plating densities. The assay thus may be useful for general mutagen screening especially with highly bactericidal compounds which are not readily tested in other microbial assays.
A HPLC method for determination of 6-thioguanine nucleotide in DNA was developed. Leukocyte DNA was isolated from peripheral blood, derivatized with chloroacetaldehyde and the formed etheno derivatives N(2),3-etheno 6-thioguanine (epsilon6TG), 1,N(6)-etheno adenine (epsilonA) and N(2),3-etheno guanine (epsilonG) were released from the DNA backbone by hydrolysis at pH 6.0 and 80 degrees C for 60 min. After extraction of epsilon6TG by immobilized metal ion affinity chromatography (IMAC) the sample was analysed by ion-pair reversed-phase HPLC with fluorescence detection. The limit of quantification was 9.0 nM and the intra- and interday precision ranged from 2.8 to 15.5%. In a small cohort of eight children with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL), a median of one 6-thioguanine base was found for each 3000 normal bases (range 1:2000-1:11000).
Vinyl chloride (VC) is metabolized oxidatively to 2-chloroethylene oxide that can rearrange to 2-chloroacetaldehyde. 2-Chloroethylene oxide is responsible for the formation of the major DNA adduct 7-(2-oxoethyl)guanine (7-OEG) formed after in vivo exposure of experimental animals to VC (Laib 1986). While 7-OEG did not cause mispairing in vitro (Barbin et al 1985), another adduct, N2,3-ethe- noguanine (EG), found in DNA of rat liver after VC exposure (Laib et al 1985), was shown to be highly efficient causing GC->AT transitions (Singer et al 1987). Unfortunately, the analytical evidence for the in vivo formation of EG presented by Laib et al (1985) was equivocal. Hence, the first goal of this study was to prove or disprove the in vivo formation of EG. The second goal was to determine the sensitivity needed to study the dose-response relationship between VC exposure and target tissue dose measured as DNA adducts. New HPLC methods for quantifying 7-OEG and EG by fluorescence spectophotometry were developed. Detection limits were 15 and 1.4 pmol per μmol guanine for 7-OEG and EG, respectively. In the case of EG, additional qualitative evidence for its presence was obtained by a highly specific GC-MS method.
Monomeric vinyl chloride is a colorless, with a slightly fragrant smell, gas at ordinary temperatures and pressures, which is widely used in the production of polyvinyl chloride, and is classified as a Group I human carcinogen by the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) on the basis of increased risk for angiosarcoma of liver and hepatocellular carcinoma. The carcinogenicity of vinyl chloride could be mediated by a mutagenic mechanism. Following inhalation, vinyl chloride is rapidly absorbed and metabolized in the liver to the electrophilic metabolites chloroethylene oxide and chloroacetaldehyde, which could form DNA adducts that can be processed into point mutations in genes involved in pathways related to cancer in humans and rats exposed to vinyl chloride. The present chapter analyzes the published studies in which the cytokinesis-block micronucleus assay in peripheral lymphocytes was applied in vinyl chloride-exposed workers. Eight similar studies performed in China among three regions showed increased micronucleus frequencies (Frequency Ratio 1.92–3.79) associated with increased cumulative vinyl chloride exposure. The benchmark dose lower limit for 10% excess risk calculated from three studies resulted in an estimated exposure limit of 0.03–0.50 mg m−3. Furthermore, the results suggested it is very important to re-evaluate the recommended exposure limits using new bio-monitoring methods in addition to the micronucleus assay.
Experimental studies and perdictive models for adsorption rate and fixed-bed adsorption column were used to investigate the performance of activated carbon in the removal of chloro-organic compounds in aqueous solution. Model equations in batch-reactor and fixed-bed column were solved by the technique of finite element method. Three species, chloroform(CF), monochloroacetaldehyde(MCA) and dichloroacetaldehyde(DCA), were the single solutes studied and activated carbon(Filtsorb : F-400) was used as a adsorbent. Experimental studies for adsorption isotherm, adsorption rate and for concentration history profiles bent. Experimental studies for adsorption isotherm, adsorption rate and for concentration history profiles of effluent from the column were compared with the results obtained from predictive models formulated by finite element method. Since the numerical simulations of the model were in good agreement with experimental data, the parameters estimated by the best fitting could make the models regenerate accurate adsorption rate and breakthrough curves.
The asymmetric cross-aldol reaction of dichloroacetaldehyde with aldehyde pronucleophiles proceeds in the presence of a trifluoromethyl-substituted diarylprolinol to afford γ,γ-dichloro-β-hydroxy aldehydes in good yield with excellent enantioselectivity. The obtained products are useful synthetic intermediates; they were successfully converted to form chiral alkynes and dichloroalkenes.
Purpose: We evaluated the in vitro hemodialysis ratio and subsequent toxicity and pharmacokinetics of ifosfamide in an anephric patient with Wilms' tumor. Methods: An in vitro model was used to determine the extraction ratio of ifosfamide by dialysis. The toxicity and plasma concentrations of ifosfamide, chloroacetaldehyde, and 4-hydroxyifosfamide were then determined over 24 h after a single 1.6 g/m2 dose of ifosfamide. Plasma concentrations were also measured before and after ten dialysis sessions during four courses of ifosfamide therapy. Results: The in vitro hemodialysis model showed that ifosfamide was cleared with an extraction ratio of 86.7 ± 0.5% and remained constant even at low concentrations of drug. The mean decrease in vivo following hemodialysis for ifosfamide, chloroacetaldehyde, and 4-hydroxyifosfamide were 86.9%, 77.2%, and 36.2%, respectively. The pharmacokinetic parameters for ifosfamide using model-independent methods were calculated: Vd = 0.23 l/kg, t½ = 4.8 h, and ClT = 3.30 l/h per m2. Ifosfamide-associated neurotoxicity was noted within hours of drug administration and improved rapidly following hemodialysis. Conclusions: The results of our study suggest that the pharmacokinetics of parent ifosfamide may not be substantially altered in patients with renal failure. Hemodialysis was shown to remove ifosfamide, chloroacetaldehyde, and 4-hydroxyifosfamide from the blood stream. Hemodialysis was also shown to reverse ifosfamide-related neurotoxicity.
By adopting the chloroacetaldehyde derivatization technique for the ethenylation of adenyl purines (10), we sought to measure the concentration of adenine nucleotides and adenosine in ASL. We utilized two cell models with complementary features to address the issues of polarity of ATP release and feedback of purine nucleotides in cell signaling. By using well differentiated primary human airway epithelia as a model of the multilayered epithelia in vivo, we asked whether ASL volume regulation is controlled by ASL adenosine concentration in an autocrine fashion and whether the levels of adenyl purines in ASL were dependent on CFTR expression. By using Calu-3 cells as a model of a polarized epithelial monolayer, we asked
The antineoplastic drug ifosfamide (IFO) in the treatment of solid tumors, particularly in children, is the cause of severe nephrotoxicity. Although it is a potent and effective chemotherapeutic agent, the associated nephrotoxicity has a serious impact on the health and the quality of life of exposed children. The toxic metabolite of IFO thought to be responsible for IFO-induced kidney damage is chloroacetaldehyde (CAA). Those suffering from nephrotoxicity typically develop tubular and glomerular toxicities, with the most severe form being Fanconi's syndrome. As the mode of toxicity of CAA seems to be primarily owing to oxidative stress, the use of antioxidants as a protective measure for the kidneys is a promising strategy. In this review, we highlight recent research that supports the local renal production of CAA as the proximate cause of IFO-induced nephrotoxicity with age as an important risk factor, those under the age of three being the most vulnerable. Most importantly, we focus on the potential a...
Abstract Haloacetaldehydes (HAs) are the third prevalent group of disinfection by-products of great health concern. A bench-scale study was performed to investigate the formation and speciation of HAs in raw and treated waters after chlorination and ozonation-chlorination. Pre-ozonation resulted in enhanced HA formation during subsequent chlorination, and the HA yields from ozonation-chlorination were 1.66 and 1.63 times higher than that from chlorination of raw and treated waters. The mechanism about the increase of HA formation during ozonation-chlorination was systematically investigated in this study. The results showed that acetaldehyde formed after ozonation was the dominant precursor for the enhanced HA formation during subsequent chlorination. Increase in pH and chlorine dose increased HA formation during acetaldehyde chlorination. Based on the kinetic studies on the HA formation during acetaldehyde chlorination and the HA stabilities with and without free chlorine, it was found that chlorine was incorporated into the α-hydrogen in acetaldehyde to form a sequence of mono-, di- and tri-chloroacetaldehyde. During this process, these three chlorinated acetaldehydes would also undergo base-catalyzed hydrolysis through decarburization and dehalogenation pathways. This study elucidated that acetaldehyde formed after ozonation resulted in the increase of HA formation during subsequent chlorination. This study also revealed the formation pathway of HA during chlorination of acetaldehyde, which would help to minimize HA formation at drinking water plants.
The degradation of 1,2-dichloroethane and 2-chloroethanol by Xanthobacter autotrophicus GJ10 proceeds via chloroacetaldehyde, a reactive and potentially toxic intermediate. The organism produced at least three different aldehyde dehydrogenases, of which one is plasmid encoded. Two mutants of strain GJ10, designated GJ10M30 and GJ10M41, could no longer grow on 2-chloroethanol and were found to lack the NAD-dependent aldehyde dehydrogenase that is the predominant protein in wild-type cells growing on 2-chloroethanol. Mutant GJ10M30, selected on the basis of its resistance to 1,2-dibromoethane, also had lost haloalkane dehalogenase activity and Hg resistance, indicating plasmid loss. From a gene bank of strain GJ10, different clones that complemented one of these mutants were isolated. In both transconjugants, the aldehyde dehydrogenase that was absent in the mutants was overexpressed. The enzyme was purified and was a tetrameric protein of 55-kDa subunits. The substrate range was rather broad, with the highest activity measured for acetaldehyde. The K(m) value for chloroacetaldehyde was 160 muM, higher than those for other aldehydes tested. It is concluded that the ability of GJ10 to grow with 2-chloroethanol is due to the high expression level of an aldehyde dehydrogenase with a rather low activity for chloroacetaldehyde.
Abstract The purpose of this study was to evaluate the pharmacokinetics, biological interactions, and toxicities of ifosfamide and carboplatin combined with 41.8°C whole-body hyperthermia (WBH) for 1 h in a pilot clinical study. Nineteen patients with refractory sarcoma or malignant teratoma were treated. To obtain baseline pharmacokinetic data for ifosfamide, the first chemotherapy course was given without WBH in six patients. This enabled comparison of systemic toxicity and pharmacokinetics of the drug combination with and without WBH (± WBH). All other patients received three thermochemotherapy treatments every 3 weeks. Ifosfamide was escalated from 5 to 10 g/m 2 with a fixed carboplatin dose of 480 mg/m 2 . WBH was induced by extracorporally heated blood (in a hemodialysis apparatus) with general anesthesia. The drugs were given at target temperature. A total of 49 thermochemotherapy treatments was administered. The use of the hemodialysis device resulted in an approximate one-third reduction of blood concentrations of 4-hydroxyifosfamide, one activated intermediate metabolite of ifosfamide and carboplatin, but in an increase of chloroacetaldehyde, the other main ifosfamide metabolite. The WBC counts and the platelet nadirs (up to WBH grade 4) were not significantly different ± WBH. Of 19 evaluable patients, 7 partial remissions, 8 disease stabilizations (average duration, 3 months), and 4 patients with progressive disease were observed. There was no WBH-related mortality. Toxicities observed included mild (anasarca, diarrhea, pressure sores, and perioral herpes simplex) and severe (reversible neuropathy, cardiopulmonary distress, and severe renal dysfunction). No hepatic or central nervous system toxicity occurred. Nephropathy was the dose-limiting toxicity. In conclusion, ifosfamide and carboplatin can be administered with extracorporally induced WBH with acceptable toxicity. Results obtained are consistent with continued evaluation of this combined modality approach.
Vinylation of enolates with a vinyl cation equivalent: trans-3-methyl-2-vinylcyclohexanone ::: ::: ::: ::: intermediate: Dicarbonyl(cyclopentadienyl)(ethyl vinyl ether)iron tetrafluoroborate (1). ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: intermediate: Dicarbonyl(cyclopentadientyl)(trans-3-methyl-2-vinylcyclohexanone)iron tetrafluoroborate (3). ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: product: trans-3-Methyl-2-vinylcyclohexanone (4). ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: Keywords: ::: ::: addition, to CC; ::: alkylation, C-alkylation; ::: alkylation, miscellaneous; ::: metalation reactions, iron; ::: metalation reactions, iron; ::: reduction, miscellaneous; ::: acetonitrile; ::: assay methods, for methyllithium with 2-butanol, by double titration; ::: copper(i) iodide; ::: dicarbonyl(cyclopentadienyl)(ethyl vinyl ether)iron tetrafluoroborate; ::: dicarbonyl(cyclopentadienyl)(trans-3-methyl-2-vinylcyclohexanone)iron tetrafluoroborate; ::: sodium amalgam, 3%; ::: tetrahydrofuran; ::: chloroacetaldehyde diethyl acetal, irritant, mutagen; ::: methyllithium, ethereal solution of; ::: sodium amalgam, fire hazard
The pharmacological effects of ifosfamide (IFO) are dependent on its metabolism which may vary between different modes of administration. This was studied in 17 patients who received both a continuous infusion (9 g/m2 over 72 h) and repeated bolus administration (3 g/m2 every 24 h for 3 days). Concentrations of IFO and its metabolites were determined in plasma and urine. There was up to 70% less of the dechloroethylated metabolites in plasma following bolus administration compared to continuous infusion. Since dechloroethylation results in the formation of the toxic metabolite chloroacetaldehyde, this difference in metabolism may have an impact on the toxicity of IFO. There were no other consistent differences between the two modes of administration. Auto-induction of IFO metabolism, with an increase in dechloroethylated metabolites, was observed for both modes of administration. In conclusion, apart from dechloroethylation, there is little difference between these two modes of administration. However, during multiple cycles of IFO therapy such differences could have a significant effect.
CBA mice were given 14C-labelled 1,2-dichloroethane by intraperitoneal injection. Metabolic pathways leading to the formation of electrophilic intermediates were studied through the determination, by ion-exchange chromatography, of the products of reaction of this labelled substrate with nucleophilic sites in hemoglobin and DNA. The products found in hemoglobin and the pattern of alkylation suggest that chloroacetaldehyde and S-(2-chloroethyl)glutathione are important reactive metabolites in vivo. The alkyl purines, 7-(2-oxoethyl)guanine and 7-[S-(2-cysteine)-ethyl]guanine, were found in DNA hydrolysates, as well as in the urine.
Salmonella typhimurium, strain TA100 was exposed to a series of peroxyacyl nitrates including peroxyacetyl nitrate (PAN), peroxypropionyl nitrate (PPN), peroxybutyryl nitrate (PBN), peroxybenzoyl nitrate (PBzN), and chloroperoxyacetyl nitrate (CPAN). Gas-phase concentrations for the individual exposures were in the high part per billion by volume ppbv range. The dose was determined from the deposition rate and measured from the net decrease of the test compound in the exposure chamber and the exposure time. The mutagenic activity for each compound determined from the dose-response relationship gave values ranging from 250 (PBN) to 6,500 (PBzN) revertants/mumols. The mutagenic activity for CPAN could not be determined, due to an interference from chloroacetaldehyde. The difficulties of quantifying the actual gas-phase chemical dose the bacteria are exposed to in this variant of the Ames test are delineated.
Exposure of S. typhimurium strains TA 1530, TA 1535 and G-46 to vinyl chloride increased the number of his+ rev./plate 16, 12 or 5 times over the spontaneous mutation rate. The mutagenic response for TA 1530 strain was enhanced 7, 4 or 5-fold when fortified S-9 liver fractions from humans, rats or mice were added. In TA 1530 strain, chloroacetic acid showed only toxic effects, while chloroacetaldehyde, chloroethanol and chloroethyleneoxide caused a mutagenic response. The latter compound was shown to be a strong alkylating agent.
Abstract 1,3-Dimethyl-2,4-dioxo-1,2,3,4-tetrahydropyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidine is readily obtained from the reaction between chloroacetaldehyde and 1,3-dimethyl-6-aminouracil. Further treatment of this product with appropriate reagents leads to the formation of the desired 6-substituted-1,3-dimethyl-2,4-dioxo-1,2,3,4-tetrahydropyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidine derivatives. Thermal analyses of these derivatives were performed between room and elevated temperatures under both oxygen and nitrogen atmospheres. Information was obtained on the thermal stability of these compounds and the thermal decomposition pattern they underwent.
A quantitative fluorescence assay for 2-chloro-2'-deoxyadenosine (cladribine, leustatin, 2-CdA) in human plasma is described. The drug was isolated from plasma by ethyl acetate extraction and derivatized by a two-step procedure in which 2'-deoxyisoguanosine (2'-diG) was first prepared by UV irradiation of 2-CdA and was then treated with chloroacetaldehyde to form the fluorescent derivative, 1,N6-etheno-2'-deoxyisoguanosine. Fluorescence intensity of the solutions was measured using an excitation wavelength of 275 nm and emission of 397 nm. The analytical measuring range of the method extends from about 1 microgram/l to at least 100 micrograms/l.
Di(1,N6-ethenoadenosine)5',5'''-P1,P4-tetraphosphate, epsilon-(Ap4A), a fluorescent analog of Ap4A has been synthesized by reaction of 2-chloroacetaldehyde with Ap4A. At neutral pH this Ap4A analog presents characteristics maxima at 265 and 274 nm, shoulders at ca 260 and 310 nm and moderate fluorescence (lambda exc 307 nm, lambda em 410 nm). Enzymatic hydrolysis of the phosphate backbone produced a slight hyperchromic effect but a notorious increase of the fluorescence emission. Cytosolic extracts from adrenochromaffin tissue as well as cultured chromaffin cells were able to split epsilon(Ap4A) and catabolize the resulting epsilon-nucleotide moieties up to epsilon-Ado.
Hydroxyl radicals are generated radiolytically in N2O-saturated aqueous solutions and are reacted with either tetrachloroethene or trichloroacetaldehyde hydrate. The primary products after irradiation are tetrachlorosuccinic acid (G= 2.3 × 10–7 mol J–1 and 2.7 × 10–7 mol J–1, respectively) and chloride ions (G= 11.6 × 10–7 mol J–1 and 7.3 × 10–7 mol J–1, respectively). The former decomposes into trichloroacrylic acid and carbon dioxide (Ea= 115 kJ mol–1). From tetrachloroethene some dichloroacetic acid is also formed (G= 0.2 × 10–7 mol J –1). Trichloroacetic acid is not among the products.Kinetic studies were carried out by pulse radiolysis. In the case of trichloroacetaldehyde hydrate there is a jump in conductivity increase of G(H+)≈ 2 ×G(˙OH) within ⩽ 5 µs and no further increase in conductivity at later times. It is concluded that the OH-radicals abstract the carbon-bound H-atom and the resulting CCl3C(OH)˙2 radicals rapidly eliminate HCl forming ˙CCl2CO2H radicals which dissociate and dimerize yielding tetrachlorosuccinic acid.In the case of the reaction of the OH-radical with tetrachloroethene the conductivity build-up is biphasic. In the first step one equivalent H+ is formed when the primary ˙CCl2CCl2OH radical eliminates HCl yielding the ˙CCl2C(O)Cl radical (k > 7 × 105 s–1). Upon dimerization (2 k= 6.9 × 108 dm3 mol–1 s–1) Cl(O)CCCl2CCl2C(O)Cl is formed which hydrolyses (k= 5 s–1). Only one conductivity equivalent is liberated, and it is concluded that the ensuing monoanion rapidly eliminates a chloride ion (no conductivity change) yielding tetrachlorosuccinic anhydride. It subsequently hydrolyses at a later stage, not resolved by pulse radiolysis, to tetrachlorosuccinic acid.
Abstract Carbonylation of trichloroacetaldehyde(chloral) in concentrated sulfuric acid readily gave 2,5-bis (trichloromethyl)-1,3-dioxolan-4-ones ( cis and trans ) and 3,3,3-trichloro-2-hydroxypropanoic acid. The cis isomer was isolated for the first time, and confirmed by Xray structural analysis. The cis/trans ratio of dioxolanones largely depended upon the concentration of sulfuric acid. Highly diastereoselective formation of the dioxolanones was achieved with 99wt% sulfuric acid ( cis : trans = 95: 5) or with 90wt% sulfuric acid (0: 100).
Dawley rats weighing 75-90 grams were used. Implantation of a cannula (22G) was done from the posterolateral side into the proximal tibial metaphysis in both limbs of rats anesthetized with trichloroacetaldehyde (200 mg/kg). The cannula had its outer end in the subcutaneous tissue. DcR3 (30 µg/ml, 10 µl) was percutaneously injected into the proximal tibia through the cannula (once/day) for 7 consecutive days. The same volume of vehicle was injected into the contralateral side for comparison. The rats were sacrificed and tibiae were removed on Day-14. Bone mineral density (BMD) and the bone mineral content (BMC) of the tibia were measured with a dual-energy X-ray absorptiometer (DXA). The tibiae were then fixed in 10% icecold formaldehyde for 48 h at 4°C for bone histomorphometry analysis. Serial sections (5 µm) of were cut longitudinally and stained with Ma y e r ' s h e ma t o x y l i n -eosin solution. The bone volume of the secondary spongiosa was measured. Osteoclast generation-Bone marrow cells were prepared by removing from femurs and tibiae of adult mice and flushing the bone marrow cavity with  -MEM which was supplemented with 20 mM HEPES and 10% heat-inactivated FBS, 2 mM glutamine, penicillin (100 U/ml) and streptomycin (100 µg/ml). The non-adherent cells (hematopoietic cells) were collected after 24 hr and used as osteoclast precursors. Cells were seeded at 1×10 6 cells/well in 24-well plates in the presence of human recombinant soluble RANKL (50 ng/ml) and M-CSF (20 ng/ml). The culture medium was replaced every 3 days. Osteoclast formation was measured by TRAP staining on Day-2, 4, 6 and 8, respectively. In brief, adherent cells were fixed with 10% formaldehyde in PBS for 3 min and then stained with Naphthol AS-MX phosphate and tartrate solution for 1 hr at 37℃. Osteoclast-like cells in each well were scored by counting the number of TRAP-positive and multinucleated cells containing more than three nuclei. RESULT: To understand the function of DcR3 in bone remodeling in vivo, transgenic mice over-expressing DcR3 systemically were generated. The adult mice were used and the age, sex and body weight of transgenic mice were matched to the controls. BMD and BMC of total body, as assessed by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry, were significantly lower (11.9 and 17.1%, respectively) in DcR3 transgenic mice compared with wild-type controls. Bone histomorphometric analysis in tibia showed that DcR3 transgenic mice had a 35.7% decrease in trabecular bone volume compared with wild-type mice (Fig.  1) . In addition, we also counted the number of osteoclast in the region of primary spongiosa. It was found that the number of osteoclasts significantly increased in the DcR3 transgenic mice compared with wildtype control (Fig. 1) . To simply look at the effect of exogenous application of DcR3 on trabecular bone, local injection of DcR3 into tibia in young rats was used. DcR3 (30 µg/ml, 10 µl, once/day) was locally administered into tibia for 7 consecutive days via an implantation of a needle cannula (22 gauge) in young rats weighing 75 to 90 g and the rats were sacrificed later on Day-14. The vehicle was injected into contralateral side for comparison. Compared with the vehicle-injected side ( Fig. 2A ; arrow shows the hole of injection site), DcR3 significantly decreased bone volume of the secondary spongiosa ( Fig. 2A) . Trabecular bone in the secondary spongiosa decreased by 31.5 % after local administration of DcR3. Fig 1. Decrease of trabecular bone volume and increase of osteoclast formation in DcR3 transgenic mice. Fig 2. Local administration of DcR3 decreased bone volume and increased osteoclast numbers in tibia metaphysis of rats.
Rate coefficients and/or mechanistic information are provided for the reaction of Cl-atoms with a number of unsaturated species, including isoprene, methacrolein (MACR), methyl vinyl ketone (MVK), 1,3-butadiene, trans-2-butene, and 1-butene. The following Cl-atom rate coefficients were obtained at 298 K near I atm total pressure: k(isoprene) = (4.3 ′ 0.6) x 10 - 1 0 cm 3 molecule - 1 s - 1 (independent of pressure from 6.2 to 760 Torr); k(MVK) = (2.2 ′ 0.3) × 10 - 1 0 cm 3 molecule - 1 s - 1 ; k(MACR) = (2.4 ′ 0.3) x 10 - 1 0 cm 3 molecule - 1 s - 1 ; k(trans-2-butene) = (4.0 ′ 0.5) × 10 - 1 0 cm 3 molecule - 1 s - 1 ; k(1-butene) = (3.0 ′ 0.4) × 10 - 1 0 cm 3 molecule - 1 s - 1 Products observed in the Cl-atom-initiated oxidation of the unsaturated species at 298 K in 1 atrn air are as follows (with % molar yields in parentheses): CH 2 O (9.5 ′ 1.0%), HCOCI (5.1 ′ 0.7%), and 1-chloro-3-methyl-3-buten-2-one (CMBO, not quantified) from isoprene; chloroacetaldehyde (75 ′ 8%), CO, (58 ′ 5%), CH 2 O (47 ′ 7%), CH 3 OH (8%), HCOCI (7 ′ 1%), and peracetic acid (6%) from MVK; CO (52 ′ 4%), chloroacetone (42 ′ 5%), CO 2 (23 ′ 2%), CH 2 O (18 ′ 2%), and HCOCI (5%) from MACR CH 2 O (7 ′ 1%), HCOCl (3%), acrolein (3%), and 4-chlorocrotonaldehyde (CCA, not quantified) from 1,3-butadiene; CH 3 CHO (22 ′ 3%), CO 2 (13′2%), 3-chloro-2-butanone (13′4%), CH 2 O (7.6′1.1%), and CH 3 OH (1.8 ′ 0.6%) from trans-2-butene and chloroacetaldehyde (20 ′ 3%), CH 2 O (7 ′ 1%), CO 2 (4 ′ 1%). and HCOCI (4′ 1%) from 1-butene. Product yields from both trans-2-butene and 1-butene were found to be O 2 -dependent. In the case of trans-2-butene, the observed O 2 -dependence is the result of a competition between unimolecular decomposition of the CH 3 CH(Cl)-CH(O)-CH 3 radical and its reaction with O 2 , with k d e c o p /k O 2 = (1.6 ′ 0.4) x 10 1 9 molecule cm - 3 . The activation energy for decomposition is estimated at 11.5 ′ 1.5 kcal mol - 1 . The variation of the product yields with O 2 in the case of 1-butene results from similar competitive reaction pathways for the two β-chlorobutoxy radicals involved in the oxidation, ClCH 2 CH(O)CH 2 CH 3 and OCH 2 CHClCH 2 CH 3 .
Abstract The synthesis of 1, N 6 -etheno-7-deaza-2′-deoxyadenosine ( 12b ) which was prepared from 7-deaza-2′-deoxyadenosine ( 5a ) with chloroacetaldehyde is described. Also the regioselective glycosylation of the 7-deazapurine-2-one at nitrogen-1 ( 19 ) furnishing the pyrrolo-C nucleoside 7a is reported and a side chain derivative with a terminal triple bond ( 7d ) is prepared. The fluorescence properties of these nucleosides and related compounds were determined. The etheno nucleoside 12b is strongly fluorescent showing a Stokes shift of 134 nm and a quantum yield of Φ =0.53. It proved to be stable, both in acidic and in alkaline medium while the parent purine compound 10b is labile under both conditions. Compound 12b was converted into its phosphoramidite 14 and was incorporated into oligonucleotides. Compound 12b destabilizes oligonucleotide duplexes when it is located in the center of the molecule; it stabilizes when it is incorporated in the terminal base pair or acts as an overhanging nucleoside. Temperature-dependent fluorescent measurements yielded sigmoidal melting profiles when compound 12b is stacked to the terminal base pair while a linear decrease of the fluorescence is observed when the molecule is located opposite to the four canonical nucleosides in the center of the duplex.
Malic acid, tartaric acid, citric acid and various amino acids were selected to be chlorinated in laboratory representative of organic acid and amino acid of low molecular weight. 3-chloroacetaldehyde was determined by GCMS and the concentration was detected with GC-ECD to screen precursor. The impact of various factors was discussed on the formation of 3-chloroacetaldehyde.
The kninetics of acid-catalyzed acetalization and ketalization of poly(vinyl alcohol) (PVA) were systematically studied in completely homogeneous media with carefully selected solvents. Thus the acetalization reaction was run in water with six aldehydes [R 1 CHO (R 1 = H, CH 3 , C 2 H 5 , n-C 3 H 7 , i-C 3 H 7 , ClCH 2 )], whereas the ketalization in dimethylslfoxide with 11 ketones [R 2 CH 3 CO (R 2 = CH 3 , C 2 H 5 , n-C 3 H 7 , i-C 3 H 7 , n-C 4 H 9 , i-C 4 H 9 , tert-C 4 H 9 , C 6 H 5 CH 2 , C 6 H 5 CH 2 CH 2 ), cyclopentanone, and cyclohexanone]. The latter was difficult to proceed in aqueous media. Both reactions were reversible and bimolecular and, despite the use of different solvents, gave similar heats of reaction (7.5 kcal/mol) and activation energies (ca. 15 kcal/mol) except for the case of formaldehyde and chloroacetaldehyde ; however the equilibrium constants at 25°C showed that the acetalization is thermodynamically much more favored than the ketalization (ca. 5000 vs. 0.01-0.9), probably because of steric hindrance of the ketone substrate. The rate constants of hydrolysis (reverse reactions) for the poly(vinyl acetal) and poly(vinyl ketal) followed the Hammett-Taft equation to give a single ρ* (=3.60) that is very close to that for the hydrolysis of diethyl acetal and ketal. From these and other data, it was concluded that the polymer hydrolysis, as well as PVA acetalization and ketalization, are all electrophilic reaction where the formation of hemiacetal or hemiketal is the rate-determining step.
A new method for quantitation of adenosine was tested in canine myocardial extracts. The method involves incubation of the extract with chloroacetaldehyde to form the fluorescing adenosine derivative 1, N6-ethenoadenosine. The ethenoadenosine is separated by high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) and quantitated by fluorometry. Experiments demonstrated that 1) the method is selective for adenosine, 2) fluorescence peak height is linearly related to the quantity of ethenoadenosine, and 3) adenosine in the extract is quantitatively converted to ethenoadenosine by the incubation procedure. Also, within the range of adenosine concentrations seen in five extracts, estimates of myocardial adenosine content with the fluorometric method were nearly identical to those using the more routine technique of HPLC with direct detection by ultraviolet (UV) absorption. A primary advantage of the fluorometric method is its greater sensitivity. As little as 0.50 pmol on the column could be quantitated by fluorescence, compared with approximately 20 pmol with UV absorption. Because of the greater sensitivity, the fluorometric method should be more easily applied to samples with smaller adenosine concentrations.
A high-pressure liquid chromatographic system using fluorescence detection was characterized for the determination of adenosine levels in plasma from anesthetized cat, rat, dog, mouse, rabbit, and guinea pig. The optimal concentration of chloroacetaldehyde necessary to convert physiological levels of adenosine to its fluorescent derivative 1,N6-ethenoadenosine (ethenoadenosine) was in excess of 220 mM. As little as 0.2 pmol of ethenoadenosine could be measured, and detection was linear up to 200 pmol. Derivatization of adenosine into ethenoadenosine was highly dependent on temperature and time. However, ethenoadenosine showed thermal instability in that levels dropped sharply after 30 min at 100 degrees C, 2 h at 80 degrees C, and 24 h at 55 degrees C. Adenosine nucleotides were extracted from plasma samples with an efficiency of greater than 91% to prevent adenosine formation from ATP and AMP that would have otherwise occurred during the derivatization procedure. Plasma levels (microM) of adenosine in venous blood were 0.31 in dog, 0.54 in cat, 0.71 in guinea pig, 1.03 in mouse, 1.04 in rat, and 1.68 in rabbit. Plasma levels of adenosine in arterial blood were not significantly different from levels in venous blood. This method can be used to measure even very low levels of adenosine without interference from nucleotide breakdown.
Abstract Sphydrofuran (1) has been synthesized via a short chemo-enzymatic approach starting from achiral precursors. Rabbit muscle aldolase (RAMA)-promoted aldol condensation between dihydroxyacetone phosphate (DHAP) and chloroacetaldehyde yielded the D-threo-pentulose derivative 3. After suitable protection of the hydroxyl functions of 3, sphydrofuran could be obtained via a highly diastereoselective Grignard addition of allylmagnesium bromide followed by a Wacker reaction.
Exposure to 1,1-dichloroethylene (DCE) elicits lung and liver cytotoxicities that are manifested in bronchiolar Clara cell injury and centrilobular necrosis, respectively. The tissue damage is associated with cytochrome P450-dependent bioactivation of DCE to reactive intermediates, and is consistent with the finding that the target cells coincided with the sites of high concentrations of cytochrome P450 enzymes. The metabolites formed from DCE bind covalently to cellular macromolecules, and the extent of binding and cell damage are inversely related to the content of intracellular glutathione (GSH). Histochemical studies showed that staining for GSH in the lung is localized in the bronchiolar epithelial and alveolar septal cells, with relatively strong staining in the Clara cells. In the liver, staining is observed rather uniformly in hepatocytes distributed across the hepatic lobule. Depletion of GSH correlates with the Clara cell damage and centrilobular necrosis observed in the lung and liver, respectively. The primary metabolites of DCE formed in lung and liver microsomal incubations have been identified as DCE-epoxide, 2,2-dichloroacetaldehyde and 2-chloroacetyl chloride. All are electrophilic metabolites that form secondary reactions including conjugation with GSH. Results of our studies indicated that the DCE-epoxide is the major metabolite forming conjugates with GSH, and this reaction is likely responsible for the depletion of GSH observed in vivo. Our findings support the premise that, following depletion of intracellular GSH, metabolites of DCE including the DCE-epoxide bind to cellular proteins, a process which leads to cell damage and suggests that conjugation with the thiol nucleophile represents a-detoxification mechanism.
2-Chloroethanol (2-CE) is a widely used industrial solvent. In Taiwan, Taiwanese farmers apply 2-CE on grape-vines to accelerate grape growth, a practice that in some cases have caused poisoning in humans. Thus, there is strong interest in identifying antidotes to 2-CE. This study examines the protective role in 2-CE intoxicated rats. Alcohol dehydrogenase and glutathione were hypothesized to be important in the metabolism of 2-CE. This study used fomepizole, an alcohol dehydrogenase inhibitor, and chemicals that affected glutathione metabolism to study 2-CE toxicity. Notably, fomepizole 5 mg/kg significantly increased median lethal dose (LD(50)) of 2-CE from 65.1 to 180 mg/kg and reduced the production of a potential toxic metabolite chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) in animal plasma. In contrast, disulfiram (DSF), an aldehyde dehydrogenase inhibitor, increased the toxicity of 2-CE on the lethality in rats. Additional or pretreatment with N-acetylcysteine (NAC) and fomepizole significantly reduced plasma CAA concentrations. Fomepizole also significantly reduced 2-CEinhibited glutathione activity. Otherwise, pretreatment with NAC for 4 days followed by co-treatment with fomepizole significantly decreased formation of the metabolic CAA. These results indicated that its catalytic enzyme might play a vital role during 2-CE intoxication, and the combination of fomepizole and NAC could be a protective role in cases of acute 2-CE intoxication.
Three brominated trihaloacetaldehydes (THAs), bromodichloroacetaldehyde, dibromochloroacetaldehyde and tribromoacetaldehyde, were identified, by gas chromatography–mass spectrometry, in ozonated and chlorinated aqueous fulvic acid solutions containing inorganic bromide. Mass spectra of these THAs were obtained in the electron-impact and positive chemical-ionization modes. The significance of the formation of brominated THAs on water quality and future disinfection by-product regulation is discussed.
We have detected cruciform formation of (dA-dT)n inserts in Escherichia coli cells by analyzing the superhelical density of isolated plasmid DNA samples and by probing intracellular DNA with chloroacetaldehyde. The plasmids we used were pUC19 containing inserts of (dA-dT)n. The cruciforms appeared after cells underwent different stresses: inhibition of protein synthesis, anaerbiosis, and osmotic shock. At the same time, all these stimuli led to an increase in superhelical density of the control pUC19 plasmid DNA. Therefore, we suggest that the increase in plasmid superhelicity in response to different environmental stimuli entails the appearance of cruciform structures. The use of the (dA-dT)n units of various lengths made it possible to estimate the superhelical density of the plasmid DNA in vivo.
1,2-Dichloroethane, 1,1,1-trichloroethane and 1,1,2,2-tetrachloroethane appear to be metabolized by hepatic nuclear cytochrome P-450. All of these compounds are converted to chlorinated metabolites after incubation with hepatic nuclei and an NADPH-generating system plus EDTA, with the omission of any component eliminating metabolite production. In addition, CO, an inhibitor of cytochrome P-450, diminished the production of the chlorinated metabolites by hepatic nuclear preparations. The major metabolites of the chlorinated ethanes from hepatic microsomal cytochrome P-450, viz. chloroacetaldehyde from 1,2-dichloroethane, 2,2,2-trichloroethanol from 1,1,1-trichloroethane, and dichloroacetic acid from 1,1,2,2-tetrachloroethane, were also produced from the three chloroalkanes by hepatic nuclear cytochrome P-450. The levels of the metabolites produced were 65, 0.09 and 4.4 nmol/nmol cytochrome P-450/60 min. It is proposed that the pathways for the formation of these metabolites by hepatic nuclear cytochrome P-450 are as for their production by hepatic microsomal cytochrome P-450. Chloral hydrate was produced from 1,1,1-trichloroethane by hepatic nuclei plus NADPH, but not by hepatic microsomes. The presence of reactive species or transient enzyme bound intermediates in the pathways for the cytochrome P-450 dependent metabolism of the chloroethanes in hepatic nuclei is suggested by the observation that nuclear cytochrome P-450 is degraded in the presence of the chloroethanes in a NADPH dependent process which is inhibited by CO. It is proposed that, although the cytochrome P-450 dependent metabolism of the chloroethanes in microsomes can greatly exceed that in nuclei, the metabolism of 1,2-dichloroethane and 1,1,2,2-tetrachloroethane by nuclear cytochrome P-450 may in part mediate the mutagenicity and carcinogenicity of parent compounds.
There is considerable evidence indicating that the carcinogenic action of vinyl chloride involves metabolic conversion to the epoxide (chlorooxirane) as the initial step. In order to learn more about its subsequent behavior, we have computed structures, energies and other properties for two different protonated forms of the epoxide, and also for two possible rearrangement products, chloroacetaldehyde and acetyl chloride. An ab initioSCF-MO procedure (GAUSSIAN 70) was used. Oxygen protonation is found to weaken both CO bonds, the effect being greater for the bond involving the carbon bearing the chlorine. Chlorine protonation leads to a marked weakening of the CCl bond; this suggests a possible loss of HCl, leaving behind a carbonium ion (and possible alkylating agent or rearrangement precursor). Thus, while CO bond breaking is doubtless an important reaction pathway for chlorooxirane, our results indicate that attention should also be focused upon the CCl bond; its rupture may conceivably be a key step in the biological action of vinyl chloride.
Ethyl β-chlorovinyl ether can be obtained easily from chloroacetaldehyde diethylacetal by heating with potassium pyrosulphate. The product contains a large proportion of the cis-isomer. The required acetal has been prepared from paraldehyde, alcohol and chlorine. ::: ::: ::: ::: The method has been applied also for the synthesis of butyl β-chlorovinyl ether. ::: ::: ::: ::: Ethyl β-chlorovinyl ether can also be prepared continuously by passing chloroacetal vapour at 220-230° over pumice impregnated with 4% of potassium bisulphate. ::: ::: ::: ::: The conversion of trans- into cis ethyl β-chlorovinyl ether by irradiation in the presence of traces of bromine is described.
A sensitive and specific assay for measurement of adenine nucleotides and adenosine by paired-ion high-performance liquid chromatography is described. The 1,N6-ethenoderivatives of ATP (epsilon-ATP), ADP (epsilon-ADP), AMP (epsilon-AMP), and adenosine (epsilon-Ado), formed by reaction with chloroacetaldehyde at 37 degrees C, were separated under isocratic conditions in 20 min. These compounds are strongly fluorescent at an emission wavelength of 280 nm, rendering a lowest detection limit of 2-5 pmol per injection. The detector responded linearly over the measured ranges (5-100 pmol for epsilon-Ado and 5-4000 pmol for nucleotides). Specificity was confirmed enzymatically. alpha, beta-Methyleneadenosine 5'-diphosphate could be used as an internal standard for measurement of the nucleotides. Significant amounts of NADH appeared as a separate peak in hypoxic tissue. Recoveries from snap-frozen kidney were 88, 92, 76, and 63% for AMP, ADP, ATP, and adenosine, with SD for recovery of 1.0, 10.5, 8.3, and 5.6%, respectively. This method was successfully used to measure adenine nucleotides and adenosine in oxygenated and hypoxic perfused rat kidneys.
Abstract1. [Vinyl-1-14C]Dichlorvos is rapidly metabolized when administered orally to the rat, the major metabolite being [14C]carbon dioxide.2. Much of the administered radioactivity is incorporated into the pathways of intermediary metabolism and thus the residual radioactivity associated with the carcass four days after the treatment is relatively high. Most of the radioactivity retained in the livers of treated animals has been identified as [14C] glycine and [14C]serine, incorporated into liver protein. It is probable that the amino acids were synthesized via dichlorvos, dichloroacetaldehyde and glyoxylate.3. At least nine radioactive metabolites were found in urine; those identified were hippuric acid (8.3% of urinary radioactivity); desmethyldichlorvos (10.9%), dichloroethanol glucuronide (27%) and urea (3.1%).4. The rapid detoxification of dichlorvos can be attributed to hydrolytic and demethylation reactions, leading to dichloroacetaldehyde, which is then partly reduced to dichloroethanol and exc...
The reactions of 2-mercaptobenzimidazole and 5, 6-dimethyl-2-mercaptobenzimidazole with chloroacetaldehyde, bromoaceraldehyde diethylacetal, and α-bromopropionaidehyde are studied. Thiazolo[3, 2-a]benzimidazole and some: of its derivatives are synthesized.
Abstract Adaptation of ocular reflexes is a prototype of motor learning. While the cerebellum is acknowledged as the critical site for motor learning, the functional differences between the cerebellar cortex and nuclei in motor memory formation are not precisely known. Two different views are proposed: one that the memory is formed within the cerebellar flocculus, and the other that the memory is formed within vestibular nuclei. Here we developed a new paradigm of long-term adaptation of mouse horizontal optokinetic response eye movements and examined the location of its memory trace. We also tested the role of flocculus and inferior olive in long-term adaptation by chronic lesion experiments. Reversible bilateral flocculus shutdown with local application of 0.5 μl–5% lidocaine extinguished the memory trace of day-long adaptation, while it very little affected the memory trace of week-long adaptation. The responsiveness of vestibular nuclei after week-long adaptation was examined by measuring the extracellular field responses to the electrical stimulation of vestibular nerve under trichloroacetaldehyde anesthesia. The amplitudes and slopes of evoked monosynaptic field response (N 1 ) of week-long adapted mice were enhanced around the medial vestibular nucleus compared with those of control mice. Chronic flocculus or inferior olive lesions abolished both day and week-long adaptations. These results suggest that the functional memory trace of short-term adaptation is formed initially within the cerebellar cortex, and later transferred to vestibular nuclei to be consolidated to a long-term memory. Both day and week-long adaptations were markedly depressed when neural nitric oxide was pharmacologically blocked locally and when neuronal nitric oxide synthase was ablated by gene knockout, suggesting that cerebellar long-term depression underlies both acquisition and consolidation of motor memory.
Abstract Biological acidification plays a crucial role in biological removal of organic compounds during petrochemical wastewater treatment. Trichloroacetaldehyde is a typical organic pollutant in petrochemical wastewater, however, no studies have been conducted on its effect on biological acidification. In this study, batch bioassays of volatile fatty acids were conducted to explore the inhibitory effect of trichloroacetaldehyde on biological acidification, the variations of key enzymes and extracellular polymeric substances under trichloroacetaldehyde shock, and the mechanism of trichloroacetaldehyde removal. The results of these bioassays indicated that trichloroacetaldehyde inhibited the acid yield at higher concentrations (EC50 112.20 mg/L), and butyric fermentation was predominant. Moreover, the contents of extracellular polymeric substances and several key acidifying enzymes greatly decreased when the trichloroacetaldehyde concentration exceeded 100 mg/L, which was due to the toxicity that trichloroacetaldehyde poses to the microbes involved in biological acidification. The trichloroacetaldehyde mechanism was as follows: first, trichloroacetaldehyde was adsorbed by extracellular polymeric substances and anaerobic granular sludge, and then transformed into trichloroethanol, trichloroethane, dichloroacetaldehyde, and dichloroethanol under the combined action of the aldehyde reductase and reductive dehalogenases secreted from the microbial consortium. The ability of biological acidification to remove trichloroacetaldehyde was limited; therefore, trichloroacetaldehyde should be pretreated before it enters biological treatment systems.
A second metabolic pathway of ifosfamide involves detoxification of the drug by side-chain Ndechlorethylation ( Fig. 1) . CYP3A is the main enzyme responsible for the formation of therapeutically inactive metabolites 2-dechloroethylifosfamide (2-DCE) and 3-dechlorethylifosfamide (3-DCE). 5, 6 The creation of 2-DCE and 3-DCE yields equal amounts of chloroacetaldehyde, the metabolite responsible for neurotoxicity from ifosfamide. 9, 11, 12 Chloroacetaldehyde is rapidly degraded, 13 and 2-DCE and 3-DCE measurements are often preferred assessments of this pathway.
Comparative experiments with vinyl chloride and 2,2'-dichlorodiethyl ether confirm that chloroacetaldehyde, which is formed during metabolism of both compounds, binds covalently to proteins, but not to nucleic acids. The putative nucleic-acid-binding agent, chloroethylene oxide, is formed from vinyl chloride, not from 2,2'-dichlorodiethyl ether. The degree of potential carcinogenicity of epoxides formed from substituted ethylenes is considered to be determined by factors of stability/reactivity and by the rate of breakdown of epoxide and the rate of its formation. Hence, pharmacokinetic data are of considerable importance in assessing the comparative carcinogenic potencies of ethylene derivatives.
The exocyclic 1,N2-ethenodeoxyguanosine (1,N2-ϵdG) adduct, arising from the reaction of vinyl halides and other vinyl monomers, including chloroacetaldehyde, and lipid peroxidation products with dG, was examined at pH 5.2 in the oligodeoxynucleotide duplex 5′-d(CGCATXGAATCC)-3′·5′-d(GGATTCCATGCG)-3′ (X = 1,N2-ϵdG). Previously, X(anti)·C(anti) pairing was established in this duplex, containing the 5′-TXG-3′ sequence context, at pH 8.6 [Shanmugam, G., Goodenough, A. K., Kozekov, I. D., Harris, T. M., Guengerich, F. P., Rizzo, C. J., and Stone, M. P. (2007) Chem. Res. Toxicol. 20, 1601−1611]. At pH 5.2, the 1,N2-ϵdG adduct decreased the thermal stability of the duplex by ∼13 °C. The 1,N2-ϵdG adduct rotated about the glycosyl bond from the anti to the syn conformation. This resulted in the observation of a strong nuclear Overhauser effect (NOE) between the imidazole proton of 1,N2-ϵdG and the anomeric proton of the attached deoxyribose, accompanied by an NOE to the minor groove A20 H2 proton from the compleme...
A bacterial strain, designated Pseudomonas sp. strain DCA1, was isolated from a 1,2-dichloroethane (DCA)-degrading biofilm. Strain DCA1 utilizes DCA as the sole carbon and energy source and does not require additional organic nutrients, such as vitamins, for optimal growth. The affinity of strain DCA1 for DCA is very high, with a Km value below the detection limit of 0.5 microM. Instead of a hydrolytic dehalogenation, as in other DCA utilizers, the first step in DCA degradation in strain DCA1 is an oxidation reaction. Oxygen and NAD(P)H are required for this initial step. Propene was converted to 1,2-epoxypropane by DCA-grown cells and competitively inhibited DCA degradation. We concluded that a monooxygenase is responsible for the first step in DCA degradation in strain DCA1. Oxidation of DCA probably results in the formation of the unstable intermediate 1,2-dichloroethanol, which spontaneously releases chloride, yielding chloroacetaldehyde. The DCA degradation pathway in strain DCA1 proceeds from chloroacetaldehyde via chloroacetic acid and presumably glycolic acid, which is similar to degradation routes observed in other DCA-utilizing bacteria.
The metabolic oxidation of one of the chloroethyl groups of the antitumour drug ifosfamide leads to the formation of the inactive metabolites 2- and 3-dechloroethylifosfamide together with the neurotoxic metabolite chloroacetaldehyde. A very sensitive capillary gas chromatographic method, requiring only 50 μl of plasma or urine, has been developed to measure the amounts of the drug and the two inactive metabolites in a single run. Calibration curves were linear (r > 0.999) in the concentration ranges from 50 ng/ml to 100 μg/ml in plasma and from 100 ng/ml to 1 mg/ml in urine.
The vinyl chloride metabolite chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) was tested for the induction of mitotic chromosome malsegregation in Aspergillus nidulans. Exposure of germinating conidia to CAA (16-64 microM) produced high rates of abnormal colonies with segregation of the whole first chromosome in the diploid strain P1, and abnormal, putative hyperploids in the haploid strain 35, indicating that CAA primarily induces abnormal chromosome segregation. Comparative assays with the known spindle poison chloral hydrate (CH), active in the dose range 6-10 mM, highlighted the unusual effectiveness of CAA in aneuploidy induction (the lowest effective concentration was 16 microM). Experiments on brain tubulin polymerization revealed an inhibitory effect by CAA only at concentrations 100-fold higher than those active in the induction of chromosome misdistribution in A. nidulans, possibly suggesting the involvement of alternative targets in its mechanism of action.
The chlorine substitution in aliphatic compounds results, by its electron attracting effect, in a destabilization in alkanes and a stabilization in alkenes. Thus, with alkanes the main pathways of metabolic transformation to reactive intermediates are radical formation by C-C break or dechlorination, or dehydrochlorination. In alkenes, the stability of the molecule increases with the number of chlorine substitutions. In the series of chlorinated ethylenes, the first step of metabolic transformation is the oxidation to electrophilic oxiranes which may be hydrolized enzymatically or non-enzymatically, react with cellular nucleophiles, or rearrange to either chlorinated aldehydes or acyl chlorides. With tetra-, 1,2-cis- and trans-di-, 1,1-di-, and monochloroethylene, the metabolites identified in in vivo experiments are identical with the thermal rearrangement products of the respective oxiranes. An important exception is found with trichloroethylene, where the thermal rearrangement product is dichloroacetyl chloride; the metabolites in vivo, however, are entirely derived from trichloroacetaldehyde (chloral). The reason for this peculiar behavior is most probably a Lewis acid catalysis by the oxidizing enzyme system. Mutagenic and carcinogenic activities in the series of chlorinated ethylenes are determined by the stability of their oxiranes, which is higher in symmetrical than in unsymmetrical chlorine substitution: the relatively unstable and unsymmetric oxiranes of trichloroethylene, 1, 1,-dichloro-, and monochloroethylene are mutagenic in the Ames test; the more stable symmetric oxiranes of tetra-, 1,2-cis- and trans-dichloroethylenes are inactive.
Naphtho[1,2-b]furan-4,5-dione (NFD), prepared from 2-hydroxy-1,4-naphthoquinone and chloroacetaldehyde in an efficient one-pot reaction, exerts an anti-tumor effect. This study was performed to elucidate whether the epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor and phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3K) signaling pathways are involved in NFD-induced apoptosis of oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC). Immunoblot showed that NFD suppressed the phosphorylation of EGF receptor and activation of PI3K/Akt, downstream molecules of EGF receptor signaling pathway, in Ca9-22 cells. The levels of downstream targets of Akt, including phospho-glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (p-GSK-3beta), GSK-3beta, forkhead transcription factor (FKHR), and cyclin D1, were also reduced after NFD treatment. Moreover, inactivation of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF kappaB), modulation of I kappa K beta and I kappaB alpha, up-regulation of Bad, and down-regulation of anti-apoptotic proteins including phospho-Bad, Bcl-X(L), myeloid cell leukemia-1(Mcl-1), and XIAP were found in NFD-treated cells. In addition, NFD treatment disrupted mitochondrial membrane potential (Delta Psi m), resulted in release of cytochrome c, and activation of both caspases-9 and caspase-3. Taken together, these results indicate that NFD induces apoptosis in Ca9-22 cells via inactivation of the EGF receptor-mediated survival pathway.
Acrolein (AC) and chloroacetaldehyde (CHA) are metabolites of the non-multidrug resistance cytotoxic drugs cyclophosphamide and ifosfamide. It has previously been reported that both metabolites can induce extensive depletion of glutathione (GSH) in vitro and in vivo and that this depletion occurs at drug concentrations in the micromolar range. A link between the function of the multidrug resistance-associated protein (MRP) and the intracellular concentration of GSH has also been demonstrated. To determine whether AC and CHA can modulate the function of MRP by inducing GSH depletion, we used two human lung cancer cell lines overexpressing MRP: the large cell carcinoma cell line COR-L23/R and the adenocarcinoma cell line MOR/R0.4, along with their respective sensitive parental lines, COR-L23/P and MOR/P. We showed that micromolar concentrations of AC and millimolar concentrations of CHA are able to deplete GSH concentrations in the cell lines studied. In addition, concentrations of 50 micrometer AC and 5 mm CHA could completely reverse the daunorubicin (DNR) and vinblastine accumulation deficit present in COR-L23/R and partially reverse the DNR accumulation deficit in MOR/R0.4. In contrast, AC and CHA did not reverse the drug accumulation deficit in the P-glycoprotein-overexpressing lung cancer cell line H69/LX4. The effect of CHA and AC on drug accumulation was related to the GSH depletion, as we found a concentration-dependent relationship between the GSH levels and the reversal of the accumulation deficit for both AC and CHA. To substantiate further this correlation, we increased cellular GSH content in AC- and CHA-treated cells with the GSH ethyl ester. An increase in cellular GSH levels in CHA- and AC-treated COR-L23/R cells was accompanied by a restoration of the DNR accumulation deficit. No significant effect of the GSH ethyl ester was detected on DNR accumulation in COR-L23/P parental cells. In conclusion, treatment with AC or CHA can reverse the drug accumulation deficit of MRP-overexpressing cells, and this effect appears to be mediated by GSH depletion.
A strain of Pseudomonas putida was isolated that was able to degrade 2-chloroethanol. The degradation proceeded via 2-chloroacetaldehyde and chloroacetate to glycolate. In crude extracts the enzymes for this degradation pathway could be detected. All enzymes proved to be inducible. The dehalogenase that catalyzed the dehalogenation of chloroacetate to glycolate was further characterized. It consisted of a single polypeptide chain with a molecular mass of 28 kDa. After induction the dehalogenase was expressed at a high level. In a mutant resistant to high concentrations of 2-chloroethanol the dehalogenase was no longer expressed. The mechanism of resistance seemed to be due to the inability to convert chloroacetate and export of this compound out of the cell.
Abstract Toxicologic studies on monochloroacetaldehyde 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazone (Olin 1763), a foliar fungicide, have been reported. In rats and dogs, single oral doses of 10 g/kg caused no deaths. In rabbits, an LD 50 of 1.4 ± 0.07 g/kg was obtained. In rats, 50,000 ppm in the diet was lethal in less than 2 weeks and a trend in this direction is suggestive for males on 6250 ppm. Feeding at 3200 ppm for 52 weeks had no effect on mortality but depressed growth in both sexes; 1250 ppm also depressed growth in males in subacute studies. Slight depression in hematocrit and hemoglobin values occurred in rats on 1600 and 3200 ppm for 97 and 52 weeks, respectively, and in rats on 6250 ppm for 3 months. Organ-to-body weight ratios were significantly increased for spleen and liver in females, and spleen, liver, and kidneys in males on 1250 ppm for 3 months. Feeding at 1600 and 3200 ppm for 97 and 52 weeks, respectively, caused increased spleen and decreased testes ratios. Testicular atrophy occurred in rats on 1600 and 3200 ppm diets for 97 and 52 weeks, respectively; splenic congestion resulted from 3200 ppm in the diet. Decreased fertility occurred in rats fed 1600 ppm for 11 weeks prior to mating. In 60-day feeding studies in chickens, 10,000 ppm proved lethal but 5,000 ppm did not; 2500 ppm depressed growth, but 1000 ppm did not. Death was preceded by inability to stand and development of twisted or curled necks. Histopathologic studies revealed no lesions attributable to treatment. In subacute studies, dogs fed 1500 ppm and higher concentrations developed marked rigidity of their hind legs and an inability to stand which was reversible on return to control diet. Dogs fed 1000 ppm for two years displayed brief episodes of hindlimb ataxia during the fifteenth month, and 2 of 4 subsequently became subject to convulsive seizures. Similar effects did not occur on 100 and 400 ppm, and there was no effect on body weight at either level. Hematocrit and hemoglobin values were somewhat lower in dogs receiving 1000 ppm, particularly during the first 6 months. Liver-to-body weight ratios were significantly higher in dogs receiving 400 and 1000 ppm, but liver function tests indicated no adverse trends. Histopathologic studies revealed no lesions to explain the neuromuscular effects. Hemosiderin was demonstrated in the kidney tubules and in focal areas in the liver, but there was no necrosis of the cells.
Abstract The metabolism and pharmacokinetics of vinyl chloride (VC) have been extensively studied in rodents and humans, but the maximum velocity (Vmax) and Michaelis constant (Km) for the activation of VC by microsomal monooxygenases in vitro have not yet been determined. Using a new sensitive assay, the epoxidation of VC by rat liver microsomes (adult Sprague–Dawley) at concentrations from 1 ppm to 106 ppm in the gas phase was measured. In the assay, the reactive VC metabolites chloroethylene oxide and 2-chloroacetaldehyde were trapped with excess cAMP, yielding 1,N6-etheno-cAMP (ϵcAMP) which was quantitated by HPLC fluorimetry. The trapping efficiency of electrophilic VC metabolites by cAMP was close to 10%. The specificity of the method was confirmed by purification of ϵcAMP on an immunogel. The VC concentration in the gas phase was measured by GC/flame ionization detection, while in the aqueous phase it was calculated from the partition coefficient between air and the microsomal suspension. Activation of VC by rat liver microsomes followed Michaelis–Menten kinetics with Km = 7.42 ± 0.37 (±SD) μM and Vmax = 4674 ± 46 pmol · mg protein−1 · min−1. Inhibitor studies and immunoinhibition assays showed that VC was activated by cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2E1 down to 1 ppm in the air phase. Based on the metabolic parameters determined, the uptake of VC by rats in vivo can be accurately predicted.
A bacterial strain, designated Pseudomonas sp. strain DCA1, was isolated from a 1,2-dichloroethane (DCA)-degrading biofilm. Strain DCA1 utilizes DCA as the sole carbon and energy source and does not require additional organic nutrients, such as vitamins, for optimal growth. The affinity of strain DCA1 for DCA is very high, with a K m value below the detection limit of 0.5 M. Instead of a hydrolytic dehalogenation, as in other DCA utilizers, the first step in DCA degradation in strain DCA1 is an oxidation reaction. Oxygen and NAD(P)H are required for this initial step. Propene was converted to 1,2-epoxypropane by DCA-grown cells and competitively inhibited DCA degradation. We concluded that a monooxygenase is responsible for the first step in DCA degradation in strain DCA1. Oxidation of DCA probably results in the formation of the unstable intermediate 1,2-dichloroethanol, which spontaneously releases chloride, yielding chloroacetaldehyde. The DCA degradation pathway in strain DCA1 proceeds from chloroacetaldehyde via chloroacetic acid and presumably glycolic acid, which is similar to degradation routes observed in other DCA-utilizing bacteria.
Aerobic biodegradation of DCA was first demonstrated in 1983 by Stucki et al. (16). The isolated Pseudomonas sp. strain DE2, is able to grow on DCA as the sole source of carbon and energy with a growth rate of 0.08 h Ϫ1 at 30°C. A strain studied in more detail is Xanthobacter autotrophicus GJ10 (11, 12) . This strain was isolated from a mixture of activated sludge and contaminated soil. The first step in DCA metabolism in X. autotrophicus GJ10 is a hydrolytic dehalogenation to 2-chloroethanol, which is subsequently converted to chloroacetaldehyde by an alcohol dehydrogenase (12). Chloroacetaldehyde is further dehydrogenated to form chloroacetic acid. The latter compound is presumably dehalogenated by chloroacetate dehalogenase to glycolic acid, which can enter the central metabolic pathways (12).
A mixture of chloroacetaldehyde (0.68 ml, 10.6 mmol), 5-bromo-2,3-diaminopyridine (1 g, 5.32 mmol) and sodium bicarbonate (0.44 g, 5.32 mmol) in ethanol (10 ml) was heated. The reaction was monitored by TLC. On completion of the reaction, the solution was extracted with dichloromethane and the organic layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate.
A strain of Pseudomonas putida was isolated that was able to degrade 2-chloroethanol. The degradation proceeded via 2-chloroacetaldehyde and chloroacetate to glycolate. In crude extracts the enzymes for this degradation pathway could be detected. All enzymes proved to be inducible. The dehalogenase that catalyzed the dehalogenation of chloroacetate to glycolate was further characterized. It consisted of a single polypeptide chain with a molecular mass of 28 kDa. After induction the dehalogenase was expressed at a high level. In a mutant resistant to high concentrations of 2-chloroethanol the dehalogenase was no longer expressed. The mechanism of resistance seemed to be due to the inability to convert chloroacetate and export of this compound out of the cell.
Ifosfamide was discovered in the 1960s and introduced into common clinical practice in the 1970s [3] . It exerts antineoplastic activity and it is also administrated in the treatment of osteosarcoma, neuroma, multiple myeloma and leukemias [2] . IF is a prodrug and to acquire antineoplastic activity, it must be metabolized to cytotoxic agents. The main IF metabolic pathway is oxidation, mainly involving hepatic cytochrome enzymes. IF oxidation takes place via two major routes. One pathway, with the involvement of CYP3A4, CYP2B6 and CYP2C9 (with less participation of CYP2C8 and CYP2C19), leads to the formation of isophosphoramide mustard and acrolein. The second pathway, catalyzed by CYP3A4, CYP3A5 and CYP2B6, leads to the formation of chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) [1, 2] . Those metabolites are responsible for the cytotoxic effects of IF result from their ability of attaching to the nucleophilic N-7 position of one of the nitrogenous base of DNA, guanine (the other alkylation sites include N-1 and N-3 position of adenine, N-3 position of cytosine and O-6 of guanine). Depending on the position of the alkylated nitrogenous DNA base, intra-and interstrand DNA cross-links are formed and the final consequence of this cross-link formation is the activation of apoptotic mechanisms, leading to cell death [2, 4] .
The administration of oxazaphosphorines is associated with many adverse drug reactions due to the fact that the same active metabolites produce toxic effects. Similarly to the other cytostatics, common side effects observed during oxazaphosphorine's pharmacotherapy include: alopecia, myelosuppression (manifested by anemia, neutropenia and thrombocytopenia), nausea, vomiting and hypersensitivity reactions [2, 4] . The more specific toxicities related to both IF and CP involve hemorrhagic cystitis, neurotoxicity and nephrotoxicity [1] . The urinary bladder is damaged mostly by CP, whereas IF is regarded to impair kidney functions. The observed differences in toxicity between CP and IF results from the quantitative aspects of the metabolism of those drugs and the amounts of the synthetized acrolein, phosphoramide mustard and chloroacetaldehyde. The latter is considered to be a potent nephrotoxic compound [2] . Both IF and CP undergo similar metabolic pathways with production of the same metabolites. However, approximately 45% of the administrated IF dose is converted to CAA, while metabolism of CP mainly leads to acrolein overproduction. Therefore, the main CP toxicity profile is related to acrolein-induced cystitis, while IF is regarded as the more potent nephrotoxic agent [1, 2] .
The method of modification of heterocyclic bases of nucleic acids with chloroacetaldehyde and other α-halo carbonyl compounds is examined in this review. The mechanism, kinetics, and scope of the reaction, the chemical properties of modified derivatives of adenine and cytosine, and the possibilities of the application of etheno derivatives of adenine and cytosine in biochemistry and molecular biology are discussed.
Abstract We investigated the cytochrome P450-dependent metabolism of 1,1-dichloroethylene (DCE) in murine lung microsomal incubations. The metabolites were identified as their glutathione conjugates or hydrolyzed products, analyzed by HPLC and quantified with [ 14 C]DCE. We determined the relative quantities of DCE metabolites formed in lung microsomal incubations and compared them to those produced in liver. Furthermore, we used antibody inhibition experiments to investigate the CYP2E1-dependent metabolism of DCE in lung. Our results demonstrated that reactive intermediates were generated from DCE in the lung microsomal incubations. The DCE epoxide (12.6 ± 1.4 pmol/mg protein/min) was the major metabolite formed and was identified as two glutathione conjugates, 2-( S -glutathionyl) acetyl glutathione and 2- S -glutathionyl acetate. Lower levels of the acetal of 2,2-dichloroacetaldehyde (3.6 ± 0.25 pmol/mg protein/min) were detected. The ratio of acetal to DCE epoxide was higher in lung (0.30 ± 0.04) than in liver (0.12 ± 0.02). Preincubation of microsomes with a CYP2E1-inhibitory monoclonal antibody resulted in a maximum inhibition of 50% in the formation of both the acetal and the glutathione conjugates derived from the DCE epoxide. These data demonstrated that lung CYP2E1 metabolizes DCE to reactive intermediates of which the DCE epoxide is both the major metabolite formed and an efficient scavenger of glutathione, implicating it as an important toxic species mediating DCE-induced lung cytotoxicity.
In the context of our aim of discovering new antitumor drugs among synthetic γ-lactone- and γ-lactam-fused 1-methylquinolin-4(1H)-ones, we developed a rapid access to 5-methyl-1,3-dioxolo[4,5-g]furo[3,4-b]quinoline-8,9(5H,6H)-dione (9) exploiting the γ-lactone-fused chloroquinoline 10 previously synthesized in our laboratory (Scheme 1). We also elaborated efficient synthetic methods allowing for a rapid access to two nonclassical bioisosteres of 9, i.e., a deoxy and a carba analogue. The deoxy analogue 11 was prepared in two steps from the γ-lactone-fused quinoline 13 which was also the synthetic precursor of 10 (Scheme 1). The carba analogue 6,9-dihydro-5-methyl-9-methylene-1,3-dioxolo[4,5-g]furo[3,4-b]quinolin-8(5H)-one (12) was easily prepared by HCl elimination from the 9-(chloromethyl)dioxolofuroquinoline 15, which was obtained via a three-component one-pot reaction from N-methyl-3,4-(methylenedioxy)aniline (=N-methyl-1,3-benzodioxol-5-amine; 16), commercially available chloroacetaldehyde, and tetronic acid (17) (Scheme 2).
A series of eleven novel 2,6-diamino-5-[(2-substituted phenylamino)ethyl]pyrimidin-4(3H)-one derivatives were synthesized as potential inhibitors of dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) and thymidylate synthase (TS). The synthesis of analogues 2a-f, 3a and 3e was achieved via an improved method. Commercially available anilines 12a-f were used as starting materials which on reaction with chloroacetaldehyde followed by cyanoacetate and cyclocondensation with guanidine afforded 2,6-diamino-5-[(2-substituted phenylamino)ethyl]pyrimidin-4(3H)-one 2a-f in three steps. The N-methyl analogues 3a-3e were prepared by reductive methylation. These compounds were evaluated against dihydrofolate reductase from Escherichia coli, Toxoplasma gondii, Pneumocystis carinii, human, and rat liver. Few compounds were marginally active against dihydrofolate reductase. The most potent inhibitor, (2c) which has a 1-naphthyl substituent on the side chain, has an IC50 = 150 μM and 9.1 μM against Escherichia coli and Toxoplasma gondii DHFR, respectively.
Publisher Summary This chapter detects non-B-DNA structures at specific sites in supercoiled plasmid DNA and chromatin using haloacetaldehyde and diethyl pyrocarbonate. The reaction specificities of haloacetaldehyde remain unaltered under a wide range of reaction conditions. Reactions at specific sites in supercoiled plasmid DNA can still be detected, for example, at pH 5–8, ionic concentrations as high as phosphate-buffered saline (PBS), and reaction temperatures up to 50°. This flexibility of choice in the reaction conditions allows detection of various non-B-DNA structures that form under specific conditions. Various metal ions can be added to the reaction buffer to examine metal-induced DNA structures. In in vitro studies using supercoiled plasmid DNAs, both bromoacetaldehyde and chloroacetaldehyde have been used successfully to detect reactable sites in chromatin when either whole cells or isolated nuclei are reacted with haloacetaldehydes. Two methods to cleave DNA at the haloacetaldehyde-modified sites have been employed. One method employs nuclease S1, and the other employs chemicals used in Maxam-Gilbert sequencing reactions. Diethyl pyrocarbonate was found to react preferentially with purines in Z-DNA that are in the usual syn conformation and single-stranded regions, including cruciform loops and B-DNA-Z-DNA junctions. Diethyl pyrocarbonate also detects the structure (H-DNA) formed by homopurine–homopyrimidine sequences with mirror symmetry by reacting with the 5´ halves of the purine strands that are not involved in the triple-helix formation.
The processing conditions of synthesis of rosen using benzene anhydrous trichloroacetaldehyde method were studied. Effects of different factors on synthesis of trichloromethyl benzyl alcohol acetate were investigated. The yield of products was obtained under optimum conditions.
RATIONALE ::: Thiodiglycolic acid (TDGA) is a urinary metabolite of the oxazaphosphorine class of chemotherapeutics, in particular of ifosfamide. Ifosfamide metabolism generates chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), a toxic compound associated with neurotoxicity, nephrotoxicity, urotoxicity and cardiotoxicity. CAA, in turn, interacts with cellular thiol groups leading to GSH depletion, cell death and generation of thiodiglycolic acid (TDGA), as a final product. TDGA is mainly excreted in the urine. The ability to accurately measure TDGA in urine, therefore, will be a useful way of monitoring exposure to ifosfamide during chemotherapy. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: TDGA in urine samples was measured with liquid chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry (LC/MS) by means of a novel Surface-Activated Chemical Ionization-Electrospray (SACI-ESI) or a classical ESI ion source alone. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: The SACI-ESI and ESI alone based methods for analysis of urinary TDGA were optimized and compared. A strong reduction in matrix effect together with enhanced quantification performances was obtained with the SACI-ESI when compared with ESI. In particular, an increase in quantification precision (from 85 to 95%) and accuracy (from 59 to 90%) were observed, which allowed for optimal detection of TDGA. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: The LC/SACI-ESI-MS approach provides a very sensitive and quantitative method for the analysis of TDGA. Thanks to the enhancement in sensitivity and matrix effect reduction, the SACI-ESI source enables the use of a relatively low-cost ion-trap mass spectrometer in the analysis of this toxicity biomarker in urine. Due to these characteristics, this approach would constitute an invaluable tool in the clinical laboratory, for measuring TDGA and other toxicity related biomarkers of chemotherapy with proper sensitivity and accuracy.
Abstract It had been shown previously that MRL+/+ mice exposed to occupationally relevant doses of the environmental contaminant trichloroethylene in their drinking water developed lupus-like symptoms and autoimmune hepatitis in association with activation of Interferon-γ (IFN-γ)-producing CD4 + T cells. Since trichloroethylene must be metabolized in order to promote the T-cell activation associated with autoimmunity, the present study was initiated to determine whether the immunoregulatory effects of trichloroethylene could be mimicked by one of its major metabolites, trichloroacetaldehyde (TCAA). At concentrations ranging from 0.04 to 1 mM TCAA co-stimulated proliferation of murine T-helper type 1 (Th1) cells treated with anti-CD3 antibody or antigen in vitro. TCAA at similar concentrations also induced phenotypic alterations commensurate with activation (upregulation of CD28 and downregulation of CD62L) in both cloned memory Th1 cells, as well as naive CD4 + T cells from MRL+/+ mice. TCAA-induced Th1 cell activation was accompanied by phoshorylation of activating transcription factor 2 (ATF-2) and c-Jun, two components of the activator protein-1 (AP-1) transcription factor. TCAA at higher concentrations was also shown to form a Schiff base on T cells, and inhibition of Schiff base formation suppressed the ability of TCAA to phosphorylate ATF-2. Taken together, these results suggest that TCAA promotes T-cell activation via stimulation of the mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase pathway in association with Schiff base formation on T-cell surface proteins. By demonstrating that TCAA can stimulate T-cell function directly, these results may explain how the environmental toxicant trichloroethylene promotes T-cell activation and related autoimmunity in vivo.
As a result of TCE transformation, inactivation of methane monooxygenase and toluene 2-monooxygenase has been observed both in vitro (5, 8) and in vivo (9, 20). Although the exact nature of the destructive species remains unknown, highly reactive intermediates such as 2,2,2-trichloroacetaldehyde (chloral) and TCE-epoxide have been identified by in vitro experiments with methane monooxygenase (5) and toluene 2-monooxygenase (8). Furthermore, the degradation of TCE has also been reported to affect, both adversely and nonspecifically, more basic and general cellular functions such as respiratory and growth activities (3, 11, 15, 17, 20) .
RATIONALE: Thiodiglycolic acid (TDGA) is a urinary metabolite of the oxazaphosphorine class of chemotherapeutics, in particular of ifosfamide. Ifosfamide metabolism generates chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), a toxic compound associated with neurotoxicity, nephrotoxicity, urotoxicity and cardiotoxicity. CAA, in turn, interacts with cellular thiol groups leading to GSH depletion, cell death and generation of thiodiglycolic acid (TDGA), as a final product. TDGA is mainly excreted in the urine. The ability to accurately measure TDGA in urine, therefore, will be a useful way of monitoring exposure to ifosfamide during chemotherapy. METHODS: TDGA in urine samples was measured with liquid chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry (LC/MS) by means of a novel Surface-Activated Chemical Ionization-Electrospray (SACI-ESI) or a classical ESI ion source alone. RESULTS: The SACI-ESI and ESI alone based methods for analysis of urinary TDGA were optimized and compared. A strong reduction in matrix effect together with enhanced quantification performances was obtained with the SACI-ESI when compared with ESI. In particular, an increase in quantification precision (from 85 to 95%) and accuracy (from 59 to 90%) were observed, which allowed for optimal detection of TDGA. CONCLUSIONS: The LC/SACI-ESI-MS approach provides a very sensitive and quantitative method for the analysis of TDGA. Thanks to the enhancement in sensitivity and matrix effect reduction, the SACI-ESI source enables the use of a relatively low-cost ion-trap mass spectrometer in the analysis of this toxicity biomarker in urine. Due to these characteristics, this approach would constitute an invaluable tool in the clinical laboratory, for measuring TDGA and other toxicity related biomarkers of chemotherapy with proper sensitivity and accuracy.
Abstract This paper is an overview on the chemical and biochemical effects of three different human carcinogens on DNA in vitro in terms of adducts, their effect on replication, in vitro and in vivo, and their repair by enzymes from human cells. The carcinogenic compounds chosen for specific discussion are N -nitroso alkylating agents: the vinyl chloride metabolite, chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), and the benzene metabolite, p -benzoquinone (p-BQ).
Expressions have been derived for fractional changes in intensity of double resonance transitions for weak irradiation of two spin systems for random field and dipole–dipole interactions. The relative fractional changes are shown to be independent of the strength and small offsets of the irradiation and the strength of the observing field. The fractional changes are found to be quite sensitive to the relaxation mechanisms, thereby allowing a simple interpretation of the observed fractional changes in terms of the relaxation mechanism operative in the spin system. Overhauser experiments have been performed on the AX spin system of 2,2‐dichloroacetaldehyde, studied in different sample conditions and the AB spin system of 1‐bromo‐1‐chloroethylene. All the degassed samples have been shown to have contributions from both random field and dipole–dipole interactions, the magnitudes of which have been obtained in each case. An analysis of sources of errors in these experiments indicates that even for strengths of...
ABSTRACT A synthesis and the structure of the title compound are presented. The sodium salt of N-BOC glutathione dimethyl ester was S-alkylated with chloroacetaldehyde. Following a protection/deprotection sequence, condensation of the aldehyde moiety with the nitrogen of the cysteine residue and subsequent dehydration produced a glutathione derivative that contains a 2,3-dihydro-4H-1,4-thiazine ring.
Abstract Biomacromolecules play a key role in basic life processes. The complexity of their structures and properties has up to now been a bar to a theoretical treatment of their adsorption onto electrically charged surfaces. On the other hand, research into the interactions of biomacromolecules with electrodes has brought forward much important information on the properties and conformation of these substances in solution and on electrode surfaces. In the last five years significant progress has been made in the study of the properties and structure of genetic material (DNA) using polarographic (voltammetric) methods in conjunction with mercury electrodes. By means of these methods it is possible to distinguish single-strand DNA from double-strand DNA (on the basis of differences in their adsorbability and reducibility) and to detect minor local changes in the structure of the DNA double helix. Apart from the cathodic signals previously observed, which are caused by reduction of adenine and cytosine residues, the anodic signal (using cyclic voltammetry) caused by guanine residues is useful for this purpose. The application of cyclic voltammetry in conjunction with adsorptive preconcentration of DNA has allowed an increase in the sensitivity by about two orders of magnitude, so that submicrogram amounts of DNA can now be analysed electrochemically. Osmium tetroxide and chloroacetaldehyde have been used as DNA structural probes, capable of introducing a stable electroactive marker into the polynucleotide chain. The presence of this marker in DNA can be detected with high sensitivity using electrochemical methods. Osmium-labelled DNA can be determined by means of stripping voltammetry at nanogram quantities. Thanks to the great increase in sensitivity and the application of electroactive structural probes it is now possible to use electrochemical methods in the analysis of recombinant-DNA molecules of viruses and plasmids, which play an important role in the current development of molecular biology and genetics. Osmium is a suitable electroactive marker not only for nucleic acids but also for proteins and other biomacromolecules.
Supercoiled plasmid DNA harboring an insert of (dG-dC)16, a sequence known to form Z-DNA upon negative supercoiling, was reacted with chloroacetaldehyde. Chloroacetaldehyde, like bromoacetaldehyde, was found to be a specific probe for detecting unpaired DNA bases in supercoiled plasmid DNA. Under torsional stress (at bacterial superhelical density), chloroacetaldehyde reacted at multiple discrete regions within the neighboring sequences of the (dG-dC)16 insert. When the plasmid population was considered as a whole, the distribution of the chemically reactive bases exhibited a pattern of inversion symmetry with the center of inversion in the middle of the (dG-dC)16 insert. However, when a single supercoiled plasmid molecule was considered, chloroacetaldehyde reacted with only one of the neighboring sequences, either 5' or 3' of the (dG-dC)16 insert, but not with both. The possibility that the supercoiled plasmid DNA is in equilibrium with these two structural forms is discussed.
The initial metabolism of ifosfamide (IF) consists of two different pathways: enzymatic hydroxylation at carbon-4 forms the cytostatically active metabolite 4-OH-IF ("activated ifosfamide") whereas side-chain oxidation results in the liberation of chloroacetaldehyde, a compound with possible neurotoxic properties. The pharmacokinetics of ifosfamide and its activated form were investigated in 12 cancer patients, who received both oral and i.v. treatment in a randomized sequence on days 1 and 3 at a dose of 1 g/m2 (n = 7) or 1.5 g/m2 (n = 5). In 3 patients the pharmacokinetics of chloroacetaldehyde were also investigated. After oral application, ifosfamide absorption proceeded rapidly, the oral bioavailability was 0.92. Independent of the route of ifosfamide application on day 1, the terminal half-life on day 3 (when the drug was given by the alternative route) was decreased in 6 out of the 12 patients, thus indicating self-induction of hepatic metabolism. 4-OH-IF was already present 20 min after ifosfamide administration. In the individual patient the concentrations of 4-OH-IF were always higher after oral than after i.v. IF application: the mean p.o.:i.v. ratios for cmax and the area under the concentration/time curve were 2.3 and 1.7 respectively (P less than 0.05). In a first series of 3 patients the chloroacetaldehyde concentrations measured after oral ifosfamide application were about twice as high as those when the drug was given intravenously. These results indicate that (in comparison to the i.v. route) orally administered ifosfamide may be more cancerotoxic but also leads to higher levels of chloroacetaldehyde. This would explain the neurotoxic side-effects previously seen after oral administration of comparatively low ifosfamide doses.
Although dichloroacetaldehyde has only one chlorine less than chloral, the polymerization and polymer characteristics are quite different. Dichloroacetaldehyde is readily polymerized by Lewis acid catalysts to polymer with terminal hydroxyl groups. The catalyst BF3·Et2O, at 0°C., produces very high molecular weight polymer, in bulk polymerization. A DPn of about 400 is readily attainable. The characteristics of the polymerization indicate a cationic type, with greater dependence of DP upon chain termination rather than chain transfer. The polymer is readily end-capped by acetic anhydride, with a pyridine catalyst, to increase its thermal stability. Melting point, infrared spectra, and x-ray diffraction measurements confirm that the polymer produced under these conditions is amorphous. Cast films of the polymer could be only partially oriented The polymer is soluble in many common organic solvents.
Chloral hydrate (the hydrated form of trichloroacetaldehyde) is formed in water treatment as a by-product of the reaction between chlorine and naturally occurring organic material. Although a clear link between adverse health effects and levels of chloral hydrate in drinking water has not been established, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has set a Provisional Guideline Value of 10 µg l −1 . This paper reviews the potential for the formation and removal of chloral hydrate in drinking water treatment processes. Two possible formation mechanisms for chloral hydrate are the reaction between amino acids and chlorine and the reaction between the aldehydes (formed when natural organic material is oxidised) and chlorine. Chloral hydrate can decay in alkaline conditions to give chloroform and in oxidising conditions to give trichloroacetic acid. Although the optimum conditions for the minimisation of trihalomethanes (THMs) may be different from the optimum conditions for the minimisation of chloral hydrate, the removal of organic precursors is common to both. Enhanced coagulation has the potential to reduce chloral hydrate levels in the treated water and to be the most efficient, convenient and cost effective method of reducing chloral hydrate levels in the treated water. Free chlorine is necessary for significant formation of chloral hydrate.
Vinyl chloride is an important human carcinogen which is metabolized to the very labile intermediate chloroethylene oxide (CEO) and to chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) which is stable. CAA reacts with cytidine and adenosine to give the fluorescent etheno products, 3,N/sup 4/-etheno C and 1,N/sup 6/-etheno A. These compounds have not been detected unequivocally in double-stranded DNA in vivo, presumably due to the unavailability of the endo nitrogens necessary for cyclization. To simulate this situation, they have used 3-methyl cytidine as a model. This reacts with CAA at physiological conditions to form small amounts of several labile products. One of these, 30% of reaction, can be stabilized by reduction with sodium cyanoborohydride to a Schiff's type base. An analogous result was obtained by Sattsangi et al. with adenosine and acetaldehyde to yield N/sup 6/-ethyl A. However, when 3-methyl cytidine was treated with acetaldehyde, a semistable addition product was obtained with and without SCBH treatment. The mechanism of this reaction and characterization of these N/sup 4/-substituted and other nucleoside-aldehyde products will be reported.
Abstract A validated approach to determine various methionine cycle metabolites (S-adenosylmethionine, S-adenosylhomocysteine, and methylthioadenosine) in human blood plasma is offered. The approach is based on solid-phase extraction (with grafted phenylboronic acid) and derivatization with chloroacetaldehyde followed by ultra-performance liquid chromatography with fluorescence detection. We used a 100 × 2.1 mm × 1.8 μm C18 column for the selective separation of analytes. Chromatographic separation was achieved with gradient elution of acetonitrile (flow rate 0.2 mL/min) from 2 to 20%. The eluent was initially composed of 10 mM KH2PO4 with 10 mM acetic acid and 25 μM heptafluorobutyric acid. The total analysis time was 11 min. Validation of the method included detection of the limit of detection (2 nM), limit of quantification (5 nM), accuracy (97.2–101%), and intra- and interday precision (2.2–9.0%). Analysis of plasma samples from healthy volunteers revealed that the average levels of S-adenosylmethionine, S-adenosylhomocysteine, and methylthioadenosine were 93.6, 20.9 and 14.8 nM, respectively.
Abstract Stilbenes, representing stilbenoid structures present in residual lignins, have been synthesized by condensation of monochloroacetaldehyde diethylacetal with appropriate phenols and phenol ethers, followed by alkali- or acid-promoted rearrangement of the resulting 1,1-diaryl-2-chloroethanes. It is proposed that the mechanism of these rearrangement steps involves aryl migration with formation of intermediates of the spiro-cyclohexadienone type. The yields of individual stilbenes vary within wide ranges and are in certain cases moderate. However, the method is competitive due to its simplicity and the availability of the starting materials required.
Chloroacetaldehyde, one of the main products of hepatic ifosfamide metabolism, contributes to its nephrotoxicity. However, the pathophysiology of this toxicity is not fully understood. The present work examined the time and dose effects of clinically relevant concentrations of chloroacetaldehyde (25-75microM) on precision-cut rat renal cortical slices metabolizing a physiological concentration of lactate. Chloroacetaldehyde toxicity was demonstrated by the decrease in total glutathione and cellular ATP levels. The drop of cellular ATP was linked to the inhibition of oxidative phosphorylation at the level of complex I of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. The large decrease in glucose synthesis from lactate was explained by the inhibition of some gluconeogenic enzymes, mainly glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase. The decrease in lactate utilization was demonstrated not only by a defect of gluconeogenesis but also by the decrease in [(14)CO(2)] formation from [U-(14)C]-lactate. All the effects of chloroacetaldehyde were concentration and time-dependent. Finally, the chloroacetaldehyde-induced inhibition of glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase, which is also a glycolytic enzyme, suggests that, under conditions close to those found during ifosfamide therapy, the inhibition of glycolytic pathway by chloroacetaldehyde might be responsible, at least in part, for the therapeutic efficacy of ifosfamide.
Twelve-day rats were anesthetized with trichloroacetaldehyde hydrate and were placed in a stereotaxic frame containing a mouse/ neonatal rat adaptor (RWD Life Science). The virus was injected into hippocampus region with a 10 L syringe and the flow rate (5 L at 0.5 L/min) was controlled by a microsyringe pump controller (Word Precision Instruments). Rats were returned to home cage after injection and were used for whole-cell recording at 18 to 20 days.
Supercoiled plasmid DNA harboring an insert of (dG-dC)16, a sequence known to form Z-DNA upon negative supercoiling, was reacted with chloroacetaldehyde. Chloroacetaldehyde, like bromoacetaldehyde, was found to be a specific probe for detecting unpaired DNA bases in supercoiled plasmid DNA. Under torsional stress (at bacterial superhelical density), chloroacetaldehyde reacted at multiple discrete regions within the neighboring sequences of the (dGdC)16 insert. When the plasmid population was considered as a whole, the distribution of the chemically reactive bases exhibited a pattern of inversion symmetry with the center of inversion in the middle of the (dG-dC)16 insert. However, when a single supercoiled plasmid molecule was considered, chloroacetaldehyde reacted with only one of the neighboring sequences, either 5' or 3' of the (dG-dC)16 insert, but not with both. The possibility that the supercoiled plasmid DNA is in equilibrium with these two structural forms is discussed. Here we describe the reaction of BrCH2CHO and its less potent analogue, chloroacetaldehyde (ClCH2CHO), with an alternating purine/pyrimidine sequence that adopts a lefthanded Z-DNA structure under torsional stress (5-9). ClCH2CHO (10), which is a commercially available reagent, reacts with N-1 and N6 of adenine residues and the N-3 and N4 of cytosine residues only when these positions are not involved with hydrogen bonding, as is the case with BrCH2CHO (11). Thus, it is specific to single-stranded DNA (12, 13) and is a useful probe to study DNA-protein interactions (13). Diethyl pyrocarbonate, which carbethoxylates purines at the N-7 atom (14, 15), is a useful reagent to study Z-DNA structure, for it preferentially reacts with purines of alternating purine/pyrimidine sequences under torsional stress (16, 17) . The structure at the junctions between right-handed B-DNA and left-handed Z-DNA has been studied with nuclease S1 (ref. 18 and refs. therein) and chemical reagents such as hydroxylamine, osmium tetroxide, and dimethyl sulfate (17). These data indicate that there are unusual DNA structures, possibly single-stranded in nature, at the B-DNA-Z-DNA junctions. However, it remains unclear whether the B-Z junction indeed contains unpaired DNA bases. Results from others (19) using BrCH2CHO suggested that there are no unpaired features at the B-Z junction.
Ifosfamide (IFO) is an oxazaphosphorine nitrogen mustard alkylating agent which is used in most cancer chemotherapy and immunosuppressive protocols [1] [2] [3] . Nevertheless, high therapeutic doses of IFO are associated with sever nephrotoxicity in the form of Fanconi syndrome especially in children [4, 5] . IFO is oxidized by hepatic cytochrome P450 to IFO mustard which is responsible for its antitumour activity [6] . On the other hand, more than 50% of IFO doses undergo side chain dealkylation to the inactive metabolites 2-and 3-dechloroethylifosfamide and equimolar amounts of the highly toxic metabolites chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) and thiodiglycolic acid (TDGA) [7, 8] . It is well documented that local formation and accumulation of CAA and TDGA in human kidney are the major player in IFO-induced nephropathy [7, 9] . Hence, despite the coadministration of mesna which has low reactivity with CAA, treatment with IFO is associated with severe proximal tubular dysfunction in the form of fanconi syndrome [10] . This syndrome is a generalized dysfunction of the proximal tubule and is characterized by excessive urinary excretion of glucose, phosphate, bicarbonate, amino acids, and other solutes excreted by this segment of the nephron [10, 11] .
Chemicals such as cis-platinum, formaldehyde, chromate, copper, and certain arsenic compounds have been shown to produce DNA-protein cross-links in human in vitro cell systems at high doses, such as those in the cytotoxic range. Thus far there have only been a limited number of other chemicals evaluated for their ability to produce cross-links. The purpose of the work described here was to evaluate whether select industrial chemicals can form DNA-protein cross-links in human cells in vitro. We evaluated acetaldehyde, acrolein, diepoxybutane, paraformaldehyde, 2-furaldehyde, propionaldehyde, chloroacetaldehyde, sodium arsenite, and a deodorant tablet [Mega Blue; hazardous component listed as tris(hydroxymethyl)nitromethane]. Short- and long-term cytotoxicity was evaluated and used to select appropriate doses for in vitro testing. DNA-protein cross-linking was evaluated at no fewer than three doses and two cell lysate washing temperatures (45 and 65 degrees C) in Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) human Burkitt's lymphoma cells. The two washing temperatures were used to assess the heat stability of the DNA-protein cross-link, 2-Furaldehyde, acetaldehyde, and propionaldehyde produced statistically significant increases in DNA-protein cross-links at washing temperatures of 45 degrees C, but not 65 degrees C, and at or above concentrations of 5, 17.5, and 75 mM, respectively. Acrolein, diepoxybutane, paraformaldehyde, and Mega Blue produced statistically significant increases in DNA-protein cross-links washed at 45 and 65 degrees C at or above concentrations of 0.15 mM, 12.5 mM, 0.003%, and 0.1%, respectively. Sodium arsenite and chloroacetaldehyde did not produce significantly increased DNA-protein cross-links at either temperature nor at any dose tested. Excluding paraformaldehyde and 2-furaldehyde treatments, significant increases in DNA-protein cross-links were observed only at doses that resulted in complete cell death within 4 d following dosing. This work demonstrates that DNA-protein cross-links can be formed in vitro following exposure to a variety of industrial compounds and that most cross-links are formed at cytotoxic concentrations.
Abstract Mutation to the conserved Glu399 or Lys192 caused the rate-limiting step of human liver mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH2) to change from deacylation to hydride transfer (Sheikh, S., Ni, L., Hurley, T. D., and Weiner, H. (1997) J. Biol. Chem.272, 18817–18822). Here we further investigated the role of these two NAD+-ribose-binding residues. The E399Q/K/H/D and K192Q mutants had lower dehydrogenase activity when compared with the native enzyme. No pre-steady state burst of NADH formation was found with the E399Q/K and K192Q enzymes when propionaldehyde was used as the substrate; furthermore, each mutant oxidized chloroacetaldehyde slower than propionaldehyde, and a primary isotope effect was observed for each mutant when [2H]acetaldehyde was used as a substrate. However, no isotope effect was observed for each mutant when α-[2H]benzaldehyde was the substrate. A pre-steady state burst of NADH formation was observed for the E399Q/K and K192Q mutants with benzaldehyde, and p-nitrobenzaldehyde was oxidized faster than benzaldehyde. Hence, when aromatic aldehydes were used as substrates, the rate-limiting step remained deacylation for all these mutants. The rate-limiting step remained deacylation for the E399H/D mutants when either aliphatic or aromatic aldehydes were used as substrates. The K192Q mutant displayed a change in substrate specificity, with aromatic aldehydes becoming better substrates than aliphatic aldehydes.
This work is a study of the competition between the two unimolecular reaction channels available to the vinoxy radical (CH(2)CHO), C-H fission to form H+ketene, and isomerization to the acetyl radical (CH(3)CO) followed by C-C fission to form CH(3) + CO. Chloroacetaldehyde (CH(2)ClCHO) was used as a photolytic precursor to the vinoxy radical in its ground state; photodissociation of chloroacetaldehyde at 193 nm produces vinoxy radicals with internal energies spanning the G3//B3LYP calculated barriers to the two available unimolecular reaction channels. The onset of the CH(3) + CO channel, via isomerization to the acetyl radical, was found to occur at an internal energy of 41 +/- 2 kcal/mol, agreeing well with our calculated isomerization barrier of 40.8 kcal/mol. Branching to the H+ketene channel was too small to be detected; we conclude that the branching to the H+ketene channel must be at least a factor of 200 lower than what is predicted by a RRKM analysis based on our electronic structure calculations. This dramatic result may be explained in part by the presence of a conical intersection at planar geometries along the reaction coordinate leading to H+ketene, which results in electronically nonadiabatic recrossing of the transition state.
These studies combine velocity map imaging and crossed laser-molecular beam scattering to study the primary photodissociation channels of chloroacetaldehyde and the unimolecular dissociation channels of the vinoxy radical, CH2CHO. In our velocity map imaging study, we investigate the unimolecular dissociation of vinoxy radicals prepared with high internal energy imparted by photodissociation of chloroacetaldehyde, CH2ClCHO, at 157 nm. We measured the speed distribution of the recoiling chlorine atoms, Cl(2P3/2) and Cl(2P1/2), and derived from this the resulting distribution of kinetic energy imparted to the Cl + vinoxy fragments upon dissociation. The recoil translational energy distributions, P(ET)s, derived for the C−Cl bond fission presented in this work suggest the vinoxy radicals are formed in the A and B state. We also took ion images at m/z = 15 and m/z = 42 to characterize the branching between the unimolecular dissociation channels of the vinoxy radical to H + ketene and methyl + CO products. In our scattering experiments, we further characterized the primary photodissociation pathways of chloroacetaldehyde and found evidence of HCl photoelimination and C−C bond fission in addition to C−Cl bond fission. This is the first direct evidence of the C-C bond fission channel in chloroacetaldehyde and we found that it significantly competes with the C−Cl bond fission channel. The branching between these channels suggests the presence of interesting excited state dynamics in chloroacetaldehyde following excitation. We also found evidence of secondary dissociation of the vibrationally excited products formed from these primary photodissociation channels. While we detected methyl and ketene products from the unimolecular dissociation of vinoxy in both studies, we were unable to determine the branching ratio between these product channels. However, we observed that the production of ketene is favored over the production of methyl for the high internal energy vinoxy radicals produced at 157 nm; prior work which formed lower internal energy vinoxy radicals found the CH3 + CO product channel was dominant. ::: In addition to the experimental studies, we developed a model for the branching between unimolecular dissociation channels that takes into account how the change in rotational energy en route to the products affects the vibrational energy available to surmount the barriers to the channels. The model predicts the portion of the C-Cl bond fission P(ET) that produces dissociative vinoxy radicals, then predicts the branching ratio between the H + ketene and CH3 + CO product channels at each ET. The model uses RRKM rate constants at the correct sums and densities of vibrational states while accounting for angular momentum conservation. We find that the predicted portion of the P(ET) that produces vinoxy that dissociates to H + ketene products best fits the experimental portion of the ketene speed distribution from the velocity map imaging study (that we derive by taking advantage of conservation of momentum) if we use a barrier height for the H + ketene channel that is 4.0 ± 0.5 kcal/mol higher than the isomerization barrier en route to CH3 + CO products. Using the G4 computed isomerization barrier of 40.6 kcal/mol, this gives an experimentally determined barrier to the H + ketene channel of 44.6 kcal/mol. From these calculations, we also predict the branching ratio between the H + ketene and methyl + CO channels to be approx. 2.1:1.
Serine hydroxymethyltransferase catalyzes the cleavage of a variety of beta-hydroxy-L-amino acids to form glycine and aldehyde products. 4-chloro-L-threonine has been synthesized and shown to be both a substrate and a mechanism-based inactivator of serine hydroxymethyltransferase. kcat values for the formation of glycine in the absence of tetrahydrofolate were determined for 4-chloro-L-threonine and other beta-hydroxyamino acid substrates; an inverse relationship between the rate of cleavage of the amino acid and the electrophilicity of the product aldehyde was demonstrated. 4-Chloro-L-threonine inactivates serine hydroxymethyltransferase in a time- and concentration-dependent manner and exhibits saturation of the rate of inactivation at high concentrations. Our evidence suggests that 4-chlorothreonine undergoes aldol cleavage, and generation of chloroacetaldehyde at the active site of the enzyme results in inactivation. Serine or glycine protect the enzyme against inactivation by chlorothreonine, while tetrahydrofolate does not. The enzyme is also protected from inactivation by 2-mercaptoethanol or by alcohol dehydrogenase and NADH. These studies suggest that halothreonine derivatives that generate electrophilic aldehyde products will be effective inhibitors of serine hydroxymethyltransferase and might be potentially useful chemotherapeutic agents.
Vinyl chloride (VC), an industrial chemical, is a known carcinogen in both animals and man. This chemical and its metabolites, chloroethylene oxide (CEO) and chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) are m uta genic in various systems. N 2,3-Ethenoguanine (E G ), one o f the VC adducts to nucleobases, appears to be responsible for the most frequent m utation G -> A which is observed in CEO-treated E. coli (briefly reviewed in [1] ).
This work is a study of the competition between the two unimolecular reaction channels available to the vinoxy radical (CH 2 CHO), C-H fission to form Hϩketene, and isomerization to the acetyl radical (CH 3 CO) followed by C-C fission to form CH 3 ϩCO. Chloroacetaldehyde (CH 2 ClCHO) was used as a photolytic precursor to the vinoxy radical in its ground state; photodissociation of chloroacetaldehyde at 193 nm produces vinoxy radicals with internal energies spanning the G3// B3LYP calculated barriers to the two available unimolecular reaction channels. The onset of the CH 3 ϩCO channel, via isomerization to the acetyl radical, was found to occur at an internal energy of 41Ϯ2 kcal/mol, agreeing well with our calculated isomerization barrier of 40.8 kcal/mol. Branching to the Hϩketene channel was too small to be detected; we conclude that the branching to the Hϩketene channel must be at least a factor of 200 lower than what is predicted by a RRKM analysis based on our electronic structure calculations. This dramatic result may be explained in part by the presence of a conical intersection at planar geometries along the reaction coordinate leading to Hϩketene, which results in electronically nonadiabatic recrossing of the transition state.
The invention belongs to the field of organic synthesis, and in particular relates to a synthetic method of 8-carboxyl imidazo (1, 2-a) pyridine. The method comprises the following steps: performing reaction on 2-aminonicotinic acid and chloroacetaldehyde aqueous solution used as raw materials in a proper amount of solvent at the temperature of 0-100 DEG C to produce 8-carboxyl-imidazo (1, 2-a) pyridine; purifying to obtain a pure product 8-carboxyl-imidazo (1, 2-a) pyridine. The method has relatively easily-available reaction raw materials, and is reasonable in price, mild in reaction condition, easy to operate and control and simple in post-treatment; moreover, the product is stable in quality and high in purity.
Abstract Series of V2O5–TiO2 catalysts with varying vanadium content are prepared by impregnation method. The catalyst composition is determined by XRD and Smart mapping (SEM–EDAX), respectively. The bulk reducibility of the catalyst is determined by the temperature programmed reduction (TPR). Catalyst activity and stability are elucidated in vapor phase catalytic degradation of bis(2-chloroethyl) ether (CEE). The factors affecting the process parameters such as gas hourly space velocity (GHSV), feed ratios, reaction temperature and vanadium content are studied for getting maximum degradation of CEE. Results reveal that vanadium content and reaction temperature have significant influence on the activity of catalyst, and the optimum vanadium content is identified for maximum degradation. The catalyst having monolayer coverage of vanadia (6% vanadium oxide) gave better performance for the degradation of CEE at 250 °C and the total oxidation is predominant above 200 °C. The GC–MS and ATD coupled GC–MS analyses reveal the degraded products are acetaldehyde, dihydrofurans, carbon dioxide, hydrochloric acid, trace amount of chloroacetaldehyde and chloroethanol, which confirms the proposed degradation path for total oxidation and partial oxidation. A 90% of CEE degradation is achieved at 300 °C and GHSV of 19,000 h−1 over 6 wt% of V2O5/TiO2. A plausible surface mechanism is proposed based on the analyses results.
A 32P-postlabelling procedure coupled with HPLC has been developed to detect and measure the cyclic nucleic acid adducts 1,N6-ethenodeoxyadenosine and 3,N4-ethenodeoxycytidine in DNA. Chloroacetaldehyde-modified DNA containing these adducts was enzymatically digested to 3'-monophosphates and adducts were separated by ion-pair reverse-phase HPLC on PL RP-S prior to 32P-postlabelling with carrier free [gamma-32P]ATP. Following 3'-dephosphorylation with nuclease P1 the resulting [5'-32P]monophosphate adducts were finally resolved by HPLC on PL RP-S and assayed by liquid scintillation counting.
Abstract Chloroacetaldehyde reacts with viral M13mp18 single and double stranded DNA to form the highly fluorescent adducts, etheno-AMP and etheno-CMP. Absorbance and fluorescence spectroscopy can be used to monitor and characterize these reactions. Both single and double stranded DNA showed increases in the absorbance following reaction with the aldehyde. The fluorescence also increased in these two groups and continued to rise with increasing time of incubation until a point of saturation was reached. The fluorescence of the double stranded moiety was considerably enhanced following reaction with the aldehyde while that of the single stranded population was not, making this method appropriate for the separation of small quantities of the two populations of DNA.
Abstract The molecular structure and conformation of chloroacetaldehyde have been studied by gas-phase electron diffraction at a nozzle temperature of 42°C. The molecules exist as a mixture of two conformers with the chlorine and the oxygen atoms anti and syn to each other. The anti form dominates (94(7)%) at 42°C. The torsional potential for the anti form was found to have a flat and wide minimum with a small hump at the anti position. The results for the distance ( r a ) and angle ( α ) parameters, with estimated uncertainties of 2σ, are: r (CO) = 1.206(3) A, r (CC) = 1.521(5) A, r (CCl) = 1.782(4) A, 〈 r (CH)〉 = 1.093(12) A, ∠CCO = 123.3(6)°, ∠CCCl = 110.4(3)°, ∠CCOH = 112.4(38)°, ∠CCHClH = 110.3(15)° and ∠HCH = 109.5° (assumed).
Untargeted metabolomics has the potential to improve the predictivity of in vitro toxicity models and therefore may aid the replacement of expensive and laborious animal models. Here we describe a long term repeat dose nephrotoxicity study conducted on the human renal proximal tubular epithelial cell line, RPTEC/TERT1, treated with 10 and 35 μmol·liter(-1) of chloroacetaldehyde, a metabolite of the anti-cancer drug ifosfamide. Our study outlines the establishment of an automated and easy to use untargeted metabolomics workflow for HPLC-high resolution mass spectrometry data. Automated data analysis workflows based on open source software (OpenMS, KNIME) enabled a comprehensive and reproducible analysis of the complex and voluminous metabolomics data produced by the profiling approach. Time- and concentration-dependent responses were clearly evident in the metabolomic profiles. To obtain a more comprehensive picture of the mode of action, transcriptomics and proteomics data were also integrated. For toxicity profiling of chloroacetaldehyde, 428 and 317 metabolite features were detectable in positive and negative modes, respectively, after stringent removal of chemical noise and unstable signals. Changes upon treatment were explored using principal component analysis, and statistically significant differences were identified using linear models for microarray assays. The analysis revealed toxic effects only for the treatment with 35 μmol·liter(-1) for 3 and 14 days. The most regulated metabolites were glutathione and metabolites related to the oxidative stress response of the cells. These findings are corroborated by proteomics and transcriptomics data, which show, among other things, an activation of the Nrf2 and ATF4 pathways.
Background: Drug toxicity testing calls for in vitro assays as alternatives to animal models. Results: OpenMS and KNIME are applicable for processing of HPLC-MS data sets to reveal metabolic changes upon chloroacetaldehyde treatment of kidney cells. Conclusion: Most significant changes are related to oxidative stress. Significance: Comprehensive multiomics studies support the risk assessment at an early stage of drug development.
Untargeted metabolomics has the potential to improve the predictivity of in vitro toxicity models and therefore may aid the replacement of expensive and laborious animal models. Here we describe a long term repeat dose nephrotoxicity study conducted on the human renal proximal tubular epithelial cell line, RPTEC/TERT1, treated with 10 and 35 mol⅐liter ؊1 of chloroacetaldehyde, a metabolite of the anti-cancer drug ifosfamide. Our study outlines the establishment of an automated and easy to use untargeted metabolomics workflow for HPLC-high resolution mass spectrometry data. Automated data analysis workflows based on open source software (OpenMS, KNIME) enabled a comprehensive and reproducible analysis of the complex and voluminous metabolomics data produced by the profiling approach. Time-and concentration-dependent responses were clearly evident in the metabolomic profiles. To obtain a more comprehensive picture of the mode of action, transcriptomics and proteomics data were also integrated. For toxicity profiling of chloroacetaldehyde, 428 and 317 metabolite features were detectable in positive and negative modes, respectively, after stringent removal of chemical noise and unstable signals. Changes upon treatment were explored using principal component analysis, and statistically significant differences were identified using linear models for microarray assays. The analysis revealed toxic effects only for the treatment with 35 mol⅐liter ؊1 for 3 and 14 days. The most regulated metabolites were glutathione and metabolites related to the oxidative stress response of the cells. These findings are corroborated by proteomics and transcriptomics data, which show, among other things, an activation of the Nrf2 and ATF4 pathways.
Renal Fanconi syndrome occurs in about 1–5% of all children treated with Ifosfamide (Ifo) and impairment of renal phosphate reabsorption in about 20–30% of them. Pathophysiological mechanisms of Ifo-induced nephropathy are ill defined. The aim has been to investigate whether Ifo metabolites affect the type IIa sodium-dependent phosphate transporter (NaPi-IIa) in viable opossum kidney cells. Ifo did not influence viability of cells or NaPi-IIa-mediated transport up to 1mM/24h. Incubation of confluent cells with chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) and 4-hydroperoxyIfosfamide (4-OH-Ifo) led to cell death by necrosis in a concentration-dependent manner. At low concentrations (50–100 μ M/24h), cell viability was normal but apical phosphate transport, NaPi-IIa protein, and -mRNA expression were significantly reduced. Coincubation with sodium-2-mercaptoethanesulfonate (MESNA) prevented the inhibitory action of CAA but not of 4-OH-Ifo; DiMESNA had no effect. Incubation with Ifosfamide-mustard (Ifo-mustard) did alter cell viability at concentrations above 500 μ M/24h. At lower concentrations (50–100μM/24h), it led to significant reduction in phosphate transport, NaPi-IIa protein, and mRNA expression. MESNA did not block these effects. The effect of Ifo-mustard was due to internalization of NaPi-IIa. Cyclophosphamide-mustard (CyP-mustard) did not have any influence on cell survival up to 1000 μ M, but the inhibitory effect on phosphate transport and on NaPi-IIa protein was the same as found after Ifo-mustard. In conclusion, CAA, 4-OH-Ifo, and Ifo- and CyP-mustard are able to inhibit sodium-dependent phosphate cotransport in viable opossum kidney cells. The Ifo-mustard effect took place via internalization and reduction of de novo synthesis of NaPi-IIa. Therefore, it is possible that Ifo-mustard plays an important role in pathogenesis of Ifo-induced nephropathy.
The synthesis of certain tricyclic nucleosides with a dihydroimidazole, imidazole, triazole, or tetrazole, or tetrazole ring fused to the pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidine ring system in an angular position (C-4 and N-5) has been accomplished. The 4-aziridinyl derivative (2) was prepared by a nucleophilic displacement of the chlorine atom of 4-chloro-1-(2,3,5-tri-O-acetyl-β-D-ribofuranosyl)pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidine (1) with ethylenimine. The nucleoside (2) was then treated with sodium iodide to furnish 7-(β-D-ribofuranosyl)-2,3-dihydroimidazo[1,2-c]pyrazolo[4,3-e]pyrimidine (3). The reaction of (1) with lithium azide gave 7-(2,3,5-tri-O-acetyl-β-D-ribofuranosyl)pyrazolo[4,3-e]-tetrazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidine (5) and cyclization of 4-amino-1-(β-D-ribofuranosyl)pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidine with chloroacetaldehyde provided the tricyclic nucleoside 7-(β-D-ribofuranosyl)imidazo[1,2-c]pyrazolo[4,3-e]pyrimidine (7). 2,4-Dinitrophenoxamine was treated with 4-amino-1-(β-D-ribofuranosyl)pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidine (6) to give an intermediate (8) which on cyclization with diethoxymethyl acetate gave 7-(2,3-O-methoxymethylene-β-D-ribofuranosyl)pyrazolo[4,3-e]-1,2,4-triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidine (9). Acid-catalysed deblocking of (9) provided the desired tricyclic nucleoside (10). The reaction of trimethyl orthoformate with 4-hydrazino-1-(β-D-ribofuranosyl)pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidine under different experimental conditions resulted in the formation of a mixture of diastereoisomers due to the 2′,3′-O-methoxymethylene group. Treatment of (10) with alkali gave a ring-opened intermediate which on treatment with sodium nitrite and acetic acid cyclized to give an aza-derivative (16) of (10).
The human carcinogen vinyl chloride is metabolized in the liver to reactive intermediates which form N2,3-ethenoguanine in DNA. N2,3-Ethenoguanine is known to cause G----A transitions during DNA replication in Escherichia coli, and its formation may be a carcinogenic event in higher organisms. To investigate the repair of N2,3-ethenoguanine, we have prepared an N2,3-etheno[14C]guanine-containing DNA substrate by nick-translating DNA with [14C]dGTP and modifying the product with chloroacetaldehyde. E. coli 3-methyladenine DNA glycosylase II, purified from cells which carry the plasmid pYN1000, releases N2,3-ethenoguanine from chloroacetaldehyde-modified DNA in a protein- and time-dependent manner. This finding widens the known substrate specificity of glycosylase II to include a modified base which may be associated with the carcinogenic process. Similar enzymatic activity in eukaryotic cell might protect them from exposure to metabolites of vinyl chloride.
Cyclophosphamide (CPA) is an anticancer prodrug that is dependent on cytochrome P450 (CYP) metabolism for its therapeutic effectiveness. CPA has been in the clinic since the late 1950s and is still one of the most widely used drugs in cancer chemotherapy (1, 2) . However, due to the complex metabolic activation and detoxification pathways of CPA, making predictions about factors that determine its pharmacokinetics, toxicokinetics, and therapeutic effectiveness has been difficult. CPA is metabolized by hepatic CYPs via two major pathways. The first involves 4-hydroxylation to the active metabolite, 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide (4-OH-CPA). In humans, this is carried out predominantly by cytochrome P450 CYP2B6 (3, 4) . 4-Hydroxy-CPA exists in equilibrium with aldophosphamide, which breaks down to form the DNA cross-linking agent, phosphoramide mustard, and the toxic metabolite, acrolein (1, 2, 5) . The alternative pathway involves a CYP3A4-mediated N-dechloroethylation of CPA to form the inactive metabolite, 3-dechloroethylcyclophosphamide (DECP), and the toxic by-product, chloroacetaldehyde (1, 2, 6, 7) . In humans, this pathway is secondary to the activation pathway and accounts for less than 10% of the dose (5) .
A simple compound earring a trichloromethyl group, CC13, is trichloroacetaldehyde (chloral), CC13CH0. It was prepared for the first time and extensively studied by Liebig [1] . The diemistry of chloral was recently reviewed by Luknitskii [2] . In course of studies of chloral hydrate, CC13CH(0H)2 [3, 4] and of several trichloromethyl derivatives [5, 6] the relative intramolecular configuration of different CC13 groups within one molecule or within one crystallographically asymmetric unit was of interest. It has been shown that Spin Echo Double Resonance, SEDOR [7] , offers an experimental way to contribute to the problem [8, 9] . Here SEDOR is applied besides wide line Nuclear Quadrupole Resonance (NQR) for the study of the relative configuration of the following compounds: high temperature phase of chloral hydrate, CC13CH(0H)2(I), the two solid phases (I) and (II) of chloral hemihydrate, CC13CH0 • 1/2 HoO, the ester chloralide, CCl3CHOCOCHOCCl3 (which shows a solid state phase transformation above room temperature), the two isomers of trimeric chloral, (CC13CH0)3 , known as a-parachloral and ^-parachloral, and chloral hemithiohydrate, CC13CH0 • 1/2 H2S.
Ifosfamide (IFA) and its structural isomer cyclophosphamide (CPA) are clinically effective anticancer alkylating agent prodrugs used to treat a broad range of neoplasms. Both prodrugs are activated in the liver by a cytochrome P450-catalyzed 4-hydroxylation reaction. The primary 4-hydroxy metabolite exists in equilibrium with the ring-opened aldo(iso)phosphamide, which undergoes ␤-elimination to yield the therapeutically active, DNA cross-linking metabolite (iso)phosphoramide mustard and acrolein, a reactive aldehyde (Sladek, 1988; Zalupski and Baker, 1988 ). An alternative, P450-catalyzed N-dechloroethylation reaction inactivates the parent drug and generates the neurotoxic and nephrotoxic byproduct chloroacetaldehyde (CAA). Although CPA and IFA are very similar in chemical structure and mechanism of action, they differ strikingly with respect to their pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties. CPA is metabolized predominantly by 4-hydroxylation, catalyzed by CYP2B and CYP2C enzymes, whereas IFA undergoes extensive N-dechloroethylation, catalyzed by CYP2B and CYP3A enzymes (Huang and Waxman, 1999; Roy et al., 1999b; Chen et al., 2004) . The formation of CAA as a major byproduct of IFA N-dechloroethylation is associated with the neurotoxicity and urotoxicity seen in patients treated with IFA but not in the case of CPA. These side effects can be controlled by administration of protective agents such as sodium 2-mercaptoethanesulfonate (Woodland et al., 2000) .
Chloroacetaldehyde, which reacts selectively with cytosine and adenine nucleotides to give fluorescent etheno-bridged derivatives, was synthesized bearing a 14C label. The chloroacetaldehyde l-14C, prepared from glycerol-2-14C, was used to form etheno-bridged adenine and cytosine nucleotides for enzyme studies and was applied to the chemical modification of tRNA.
Raman spectra of the Cl3CCHO/CCl4 and Cl3CCHO/C6D12 binary systems were recorded as a function of the mole fraction. Features originating from self-aggregates of chloral (trichloroethanal, trichloroacetaldehyde—TCAA) molecules were detected in different spectral regions. The most pronounced changes were observed in the vicinity of the ν(CO) and ν(CH) stretching vibration bands. Using two-dimensional correlation spectroscopy (2D-COS), evolving-factor analysis (EFA) and multivariate curve resolution (MCR), dimer bands were identified, and their positions were determined. The ν(CH) stretching vibration band in dimers was blue-shifted by nearly 18 cm−1, whereas the ν(CO) dimer band was red-shifted by more than 5 cm−1. For these bands, the observed shifts were accompanied by an almost twofold change in the bandwidth, from approximately 19 and 6 cm−1 for dilute solutions (x = 0.05) to 36.6 and 11.5 cm−1, respectively, in pure TCAA. The formation of dimers was confirmed by multivariate analysis of the Raman spectra of chloral recorded as a function of temperature. Analogous analysis of dichloroacetyl chloride (DCAC) spectra gave an 8.9 cm−1 blue shift for the ν(CH) vibration band and − 5.5/− 10.1 cm−1 shifts for the ν(CO) stretching vibrations of the two conformers present. To facilitate the interpretation of experimental findings, the optimized geometries and vibrational wavenumbers of the Cl3CCHO/HCl2CCClO molecules and (Cl3CCHO)2/(HCl2CCClO)2 dimers were calculated at the B3LYP/6-311 + + G(3df,3pd) level. Copyright © 2010 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Nonproliferating cells of Mycobacterium vaccae that were grown on propane could mineralize limited amounts of trichloroethylene. Intermediates in the biodegradation of trichloroethylene were 2,2,2-trichloroethanol and 2,2,2-trichloroacetaldehyde. Trichloroethanol was completely degraded when added to a nonproliferating cell suspension of Mycobacterium vaccae. Addition of toluene to the reaction mixtures effected a 50% increase in the mineralization of [14C]trichloroethylene.Key words: trichloroethylene, cometabolism, Mycobacterium vaccae.
The invention discloses the technical field of synthesis of isotope labeled compounds and particularly relates to a synthesis method of C13-labelled DDT (Dichlorodiphenyl Trichloroethane), DDD (Dichlorodiphenyl Dichloroethane) and DDE (Dichlorodiphenyl Dichloroethene). The synthesis method comprises the following steps: with 13C6-benzene as a raw material, carrying out oxychlorination to obtain 12C6-chlorobenzene, carrying out acid catalytic condensation on the 12C6-chlorobenzene with a trichloracetic aldehyde hydrate and a dichloroacetaldehyde hydrate respectively to obtain 13C12-DDT and 13C12-DDD, and preparing 13C12-DDE by carrying out catalytic dehydrochlorination on 13C12-DDT by means of a phase transfer catalyst. A series of representations prove that the products are 13C12-DDT, 13C12-DDD and 13C12-DDE, and the chemical purity of the products reaches above 90 percent, and the stable isotope abundance is above 90 percent.
The reaction of Lupinus luteus tRNAPhe with 1 M chloroacetaldehyde in the pH range of 4 - 6 at 25 degrees C was studied. It was found that earlier difficulties lowering the utility of the reagent for structural studies of nucleic acids were caused by the formation of the stable reaction intermediates. In order to eliminate these difficulties the simple procedure of so-called maturation of the chloroacetaldehyde-modifies tRNA is proposed. It consists in further incubation of the short-term modified tRNA in water at 50 degrees C in the absence of the reagent. During the maturation step the stable intermediates are quantitatively converted into final ethenoderivatives. New HPLC conditions on Aminex A-6 were worked out which enable rapid separation of both ethenoadenosine and ethenocytidine from natural tRNA nucleosides.
The chromatographic resolution of fluorescent 1-N6-etheno derivatives of adenine and adenosine ribo- and deoxyribonucleotides on reversed-phase columns has been optimised by a systematic study of the effect of ion-pair concentration, pH, eluent molarity and methanol concentration. Using tetrabutylammonium hydrogen sulphate as the ion-pair separation of up to eight derivatives could be achieved in ca. 10 min. Conditions of derivatisation with chloroacetaldehyde have been investigated in order to reduce hydrolysis of the nucleotides.
