The thermodynamic and kinetic aspects of ethyl carbamate (EC) formation through the reaction between cyanate and ethanol were investigated. The rate constant values for cyanate ion decay and EC formation are (8.0 ± 0.4) × 10(-5) and (8.9 ± 0.4) × 10(-5) s(-1), respectively, at 25 °C in 48% aqueous ethanolic solution at pH 4.5. Under the investigated experimental conditions, the rate constants are independent of the ethanol and cyanate concentrations but increase as the temperature increases (ΔH1(⧧) = 19.4 ± 1 kcal/mol, ΔS1(⧧) = −12.1 ± 1 cal/K, and ΔG1(⧧) = 23.0 ± 1 kcal/mol) and decrease as the solution pH increases. According to molecular modeling (DFT) that was performed to analyze the reaction mechanism, the isocyanic acid (HNCO) is the active EC precursor. The calculated ΔG1(⧧), ΔH1(⧧), and ΔS1(⧧) values are in very good agreement with the experimental ones.
Abstract The oxidation of hydroxyurea (H 2 NCONHOH, HU) at Au(100), Au(111) and Au(111)–25 nm thin film electrodes is studied spectroelectrochemically in perchloric acid solutions. HU, which in agreement with DFT results interacts weakly with the gold surfaces, oxidizes irreversibly at gold electrodes irrespective of the surface orientation. The in situ infrared external reflection spectra prove the formation of dissolved carbon dioxide and adsorbed cyanate as products of the HU electrooxidation reaction. A band at ca. 2230 cm −1 can be related both to dissolved isocyanic acid coming from the protonation of adsorbed cyanate or to nitrous oxide coming from the oxidation of hydroxylamine, which is formed (together with adsorbed cyanate) upon the chemical decomposition of hydroxyurea. ATR-SEIRAS experiments allow the observation of other adsorbate bands that can be tentatively ascribed to reaction intermediates that conserve the NCN skeleton and are bonded to the metal by the nitrogen atoms at near on-top positions. Bonding to the surface can be either unidentate or bidentate, involving covalent-type bonds or dative bonding through the lone pairs of the N atoms. Some of the signals of the experimental spectra, in particular those appearing around 1800 cm −1 , can be assigned to the CO stretch of adsorbed intermediates having a nitrosyl group formed by oxidation of the NOH moiety (namely, adsorbed nitrosoformamide or its deprotonated form). The bands observed around 1650 cm −1 can correspond either to the NO stretching mode of the former species or to the CO stretching modes of adspecies conserving the NOH group.
The hydro cyanic acid exists in the potato and the starch,has the fierce toxicity,to the human,the livestock creates the severe impairment.A new method was developed for the determination of cyanide in potato and its starch by ion chromatography(IC),the samples were refrigerated and centrifuged,after processing by the "Inline" were detected by ion chromatography,the calibration curves were linear in range of 0.136～2.72 mg/L.The spiked recoveries were in the range of 85%～93%,the detection limit of cyanide was 0.054 mg/L,and the relative standard deviation was 1.2%,As a conclusion,it is applicable for the determination of cyanide in potato and its starch.
The thermal decomposition of azodicarbonamide has been studied in solid state. Themal characteristics were examined by using differential thermal analysis and thermal gravimetric analysis. The kinds of decomposition products were identified by using the pyrolysis gas chromatography, infrared and mass spectrometries. Main gaseous products were N2 and CO, the amounts of CO, and NH3 were negligible, while cyanic acid and isocyanic acid were produced in various proportions. The residues were isocyanuric acid and biurea mixture. Cyamelide and ammonium cyanate were obtained as sublimation products.The rate of decomposition was measured by the gas evolution method over the range 181197°C, invacuum. The course of decomposition could be followed by the expression of the formwhere P., isthepressure, fgasev, lvedatc, mpletedec, mp, siti, n, Pthepressureatthetime theratecnstantandCtheconstant. Theactivationenergyandthepre-exponential factorwas, 31.6kca1/moland1.0×1013, respectively.On the base softheseresults, the decomposition mechanismhas been proposed which involved the elim natinofazo-radical and the subequentreaction soft herad icalsformed. The main reactionswerethetrimerization of isocyanic acid and the addition of the resulting radicals to theamide.
Extended Abstract Environmental pollution by heavy metals has become a serious problem in the world. Phytoextraction, which is one of the plant-based technologies has attracted the most attention for the bioremediation of soils polluted with these contaminants. The success of metal extraction depends on many factors, but the most important are a plant’s ability to uptake and translocate metals to its stems and leaves, metal bioavailability and soil type. The results of many studies have shown that the efficiency of heavy metal phytoextraction may be supported by metal-resistant bacteria that belong to the plant growth-promoting bacteria (PGPB) group. Among them plant growth-promoting endophytes (PGPE) may confer plants with a higher tolerance to heavy metal stress and may stimulate the growth of the host plant through several mechanisms. The aim of this study was to estimate the potential of a metal-resistant strain of Pseudomonas sp. 16, isolated from Silene vulgaris tissues, to enhance Zn, Cd and Cu uptake by white mustard under laboratory conditions. Moreover, its potential to promote the growth of plants was also determined. Additionally, the ability of spontaneous rifampicin-resistant mutant of tested strain to colonize the internal tissues of Sinapis alba and its survival after introduction into soil were also determined. The strain showed the high resistance to Cd, Zn and Cu and produced large and clear orange haloes around the colonies grown on CAS agar, which indicates siderophore production. The activity of ACCD was 2.3 μmol α-ketobutyrate mg−1 h−1. The strain also produced IAA at a concentration of 6.96 ± 2.41 μg IAA mL−1 and was able to solubilize Ca3(PO4)2 in an NBRIP medium. The halo size was 13.67 ± 1.15 mm. The presence of the color orange on the paper filter placed on agar plates supplemented with glycine demonstrated the ability of the tested strain to release hydrocyanic acid. Moreover, this strain exhibited extracellular cellulase activity and was capable of motility and these features facilitated the plant colonization by bacteria. Plant growth-promoting features of tested strain caused higher biomass and heavy metal accumulation by white mustard growing in soil inoculated with suspension of tested strain, as compared with control plants growing in soil treated with suspension of thermal inactivated strain. A metal-tolerant Pseudomonas sp. 16 strain, due to the activity of several mechanisms that are considered to be important for plant growth-promotion has the potential to enhance the phytoextraction of heavy metals from contaminated soil. Additionally, tested strain showed a high survival rate after introduction into the soil and was able to colonize the internal tissues of S. alba. These features indicate that Pseudomonas sp. 16 strain in combination with S. alba can be regarded as an effective tool for the phytoextraction of heavy metals.
The chemistry of the formation of 2-thiohydantoins on the carboxyl terminal of peptides or proteins was investigated. It was found that thiocyanic acid was much more reactive for the formation of 2-thiohydantoins than were the thiocyanate salts. The physical reasons for this observation are explained. The kinetics of the reaction of a number of proteins, and some of their fragments, with thiocyanic acid were also determined. Simple and safe procedures for the preparation of anhydrous thiocyanic acid solutions were devised. The prospective application of these procedures to sequencing from the carboxyl terminal of a polypeptide is discussed.
Abstract The adsorption of cyanate anions at Au(111) and Au(100) single crystal electrodes has been studied spectroelectrochemically in neutral solutions. Potential-dependent in situ InfraRed Reflection Absorption spectra obtained below the onset of cyanate oxidation were compared with previously published data and analyzed on the basis of periodical Density Functional Theory (DFT) calculations. The calculated adsorption energies for cyanate and related species suggest that cyanic and isocyanic acid adsorb weakly at the studied gold surfaces and, thus, seems not to be at the origin of any of the adsorbate bands in the experimental infrared spectra collected in the cyanate-containing solutions. The latter features can be clearly ascribed to the asymmetric OCN stretching of N-bonded cyanate species. The observation of absorption bands in a wide spectral region, including features above 2200 cm − 1 , agrees with the coexistence of N-bonded cyanate species with different adsorption sites and tilting angles. DFT calculations have revealed that although these adspecies can have significantly different frequencies, their adsorption energies are rather close. In addition, the existence of collective in-phase vibrations at relatively high cyanate coverages also contributes to the widening of the absorption bands.
Cyanogenic plants and fungi are widespread in nature. Although the origin of hydrocyanic acid in plants has been studied in detail, little is known about its origin in fungi. Here, we report the identification of the cyanohydrin of glyoxylic acid as the precursor of hydrocyanic acid in the fungus Marasmius oreades and several other cyanogenic fungi. Moreover, a feeding experiment revealed glycine as biosynthetic precursor of the cyanohydrin of glyoxylic acid. Thus, the cyanogenesis of M. oreades and other fungi is fundamentally different from cyanogenesis in plants.
A major problem in the selective catalytic reduction of NOx with urea (urea-SCR) is the formation of urea decomposition byproducts, which can be suppressed by the use of TiO2 as a hydrolysis catalyst. Temperature programmed desorption and reaction (TPD/R) experiments with urea, biuret, triuret, cyanuric acid and melamine on TiO2-coated and inert cordierite monoliths were used to investigate the reaction network of urea byproduct formation and decomposition over anatase TiO2. All investigated compounds were found to be catalytically hydrolyzed over TiO2. Biuret was directly hydrolyzed to urea in one step, whereas melamine hydrolyzed step-wise via ammeline and ammelide to cyanuric acid. Finally, cyanuric acid completely hydrolyzed to ammonia and carbon dioxide. The formation of byproducts was strongly favored in the absence of water. A reaction network was developed for the uncatalyzed and catalytic decomposition of urea, showing the most important reactions of urea, isocyanic acid, biuret, triuret, cyanuric acid, ammelide, ammeline and melamine under low-temperature operating conditions in SCR systems. Our results support the approach of using a special hydrolysis catalyst for urea decomposition or of catalytic coatings on exhaust pipes to avoid byproduct formation.
The complex photochemistry of matrix-isolated dihaloformoximes 8a, 8b, and 8c, which are transformed upon irradiation into the new hydrogen-bonded complexes HalCN…HOHal 10a–c′, identified by their IR spectra, has been unveiled. An earlier assignment of the experimental IR absorptions to isofulminic acid HONC (4) must be withdrawn. A competitive reaction to the formation of complexes 10a–c′ produces the hydrogen-bonded complexes HalNCO/HHal 12a–c′, which can be regarded as intermediates on the photochemical pathway to the final product isocyanic acid HNCO (1), and are tentatively identified by their IR absorptions. Our findings are supported by deuteration experiments and theoretical calculations using the density functional method BLYP/6-311G*.
Hexamethylenediamine (HMDA) is an important reagent for the synthesis of Nylon-6,6, and it is usually produced by the hydrogenation of adiponitrile using a toxic reagent of hydrocyanic acid. Herein, we developed an environmental friendly route to produce HMDA via catalytic reductive amination of 1,6-hexanediol (HDO) in the presence of hydrogen. The activities of several heterogeneous metal catalysts such as supported Ni, Co, Ru, Pt, Pd catalysts were screened for the present reaction in supercritical ammonia without any additives. Among the catalysts examined, Ru/Al2O3 presented a high catalytic activity and highest selectivity for the desired product of HMDA. The high performance of Ru/Al2O3 was discussed based on the Ru dispersion and the surface properties like the acid-basicity. In addition, the reaction parameters such as reaction temperature, time, H2 and NH3 pressure were examined, and the reaction processes were discussed in detail.
We report the bond selected photodissociation of isocyanic acid (HNCO). This molecule dissociates from its first excited singlet state, breaking either the N–H bond to form H+NCO (X 2Π) or the C–N bond to form NH (a 1Δ)+CO (1∑+). The threshold for production of NH lies about 3900 cm−1 above that of NCO, and we detect both of these channels by laser induced fluorescence on either the NH or the NCO fragment. Dissociating the molecule out of a vibrationally excited state on its ground electronic surface containing four quanta of N–H stretch (4ν1) enhances the efficiency of the NCO channel over the NH channel by a factor of at least 20. We reach this conclusion by comparing the results of such a vibrationally mediated photodissociation experiment to those from a conventional single photon dissociation at the same total energy (about 1000 cm−1 above the threshold for the NH channel). Our estimate of the branching ratio in the one photon dissociation at this energy is roughly ΦNCO/ΦNH≊20, and it grows to ΦNCO/Φ...
The invention relates to a method for producing a carboxylic acid amide from a carbonyl compound and hydrocyanic acid, comprising the steps of A) reacting a carbonyl compound with hydrocyanic acid to produce a hydroxycarboxylic acid nitrile, B) hydrolysis of the hydroxycarboxylic acid nitrile obtained in step A) in the presence of a catalyst comprising manganese dioxide, wherein a molar excess of carbonyl compound is used in relation to the hydrocyanic acid to react the carbonyl compound with hydrocyanic acid according to step A), and the reaction mixture obtained in step A) is not purified by distillation before the hydrolysis according to step B) is carried out. The invention furthermore relates to a method for producing alkyl(meth)acrylates from polymers, moulding compounds and moulded bodies, wherein a method for producing a carboxylic acid amide from a carbonyl compound and hydrocyanic acid is carried out in accordance with the method described above.
The oxidation of hydroxyurea (H2NCONHOH, HU) at Au(100), Au(111) and Au(111)-25 nm thin film electrodes is studied spectroelectrochemically in perchloric acid solutions. HU, which in agreement with DFT results interacts weakly with the gold surfaces, oxidizes irreversibly at gold electrodes irrespective of the surface orientation. The in situ external reflection spectra prove the formation of dissolved carbon dioxide and adsorbed cyanate as products of the HU electrooxidation reaction. A band at ca. 2230 cm -1 can be related both to dissolved isocyanic acid coming from the protonation of adsorbed cyanate or to nitrous oxide coming from the oxidation of hydroxylamine, which is formed (together with adsorbed cyanate) upon the chemical decomposition of hydroxyurea.
The strain showed the high resistance to Cd, Zn and Cu and produced large and clear orange haloes around the colonies grown on CAS agar, which indicates siderophore production. The activity of ACCD was 2.3 µmol α-ketobutyrate mg −1 h −1 . The strain also produced IAA at a concentration of 6.96 ± 2.41 µg IAA mL −1 and was able to solubilize Ca3(PO4)2 in an NBRIP medium. The halo size was 13.67 ± 1.15 mm. The presence of the color orange on the paper filter placed on agar plates supplemented with glycine demonstrated the ability of the tested strain to release hydrocyanic acid. Moreover, this strain exhibited extracellular cellulase activity and was capable of motility and these features facilitated the plant colonization by bacteria. Plant growth-promoting features of tested strain caused higher biomass and heavy metal accumulation by white mustard growing in soil inoculated with suspension of tested strain, as compared with control plants growing in soil treated with suspension of thermal inactivated strain.
The adsorption of cyanate anions at Au(111) and Au(100) single crystal electrodes has been studied spectroelectrochemically in neutral solutions. Potential-dependent in situ InfraRed Reflection Absorption spectra obtained below the onset of cyanate oxidation were compared with previously published data and analyzed on the basis of periodical Density Functional Theory (DFT) calculations. The calculated adsorption energies for cyanate and related species suggest that cyanic and isocyanic acid adsorb weakly at the studied gold surfaces and, thus, seems not to be at the origin of any of the adsorbate bands in the experimental infrared spectra collected in the cyanatecontaining solutions. The latter features can be clearly ascribed to the asymmetric OCN stretching of N-bonded cyanate species. The observation of absorption bands in a wide spectral region, including features above 2200 cm -1 , agrees with the coexistence of N-bonded cyanate species with different adsorption sites and tilting angles. DFT calculations have revealed that although these adspecies can have significantly different frequencies, their adsorption energies are rather close. In addition, the existence of collective in-phase vibrations at relatively high cyanate coverages also contributes to the widening of the absorption bands.
The mechanism of the photochemical fragmentation reaction is investigated theoretically using the model system, hydantoin, using the CAS(22,16)/6-31G(d) and MP2-CAS-(22,16)/6-311G(d)//CAS(22,16)/6-31G(d) methods. The model investigation demonstrates that the preferred reaction route for the photofragmentation reaction is as follows: hydantoin → Franck-Condon region → conical intersection → fragment photoproducts (i.e., CO, isocyanic acid, and methylenimine). The theoretical finding additionally suggests that no organic radicals exist during the fragmentation reaction. Moreover, due to the high activation energy, the theoretical evidences suggest that it would be difficult to yield the three fragments under the thermal reaction. All the above theoretical observations are consistent with the available experimental results.
Hydantoins (or 2,4-imidazolidinediones, 1) are known to be useful chemicals in various pharmaceutical and agrochemical fields [1] . In order to examine the electronic structure, infrared spectrum, and unimolecular UV-induced photochemistry of the parent hydantoin monomer, Ildiz and co-workers recently reported that upon irradiation at λ = 230 nm, photochemical transformation of matrix-isolated 1 took place leading to formation of CO, isocyanic acid, and methylenimine (Scheme 1) [2] . However, since then neither experimental nor theoretical work has been devoted to the study of the photofragmentation mechanism of such five-membered ring heterocyclic molecule. In order to obtain more understanding of the photochemical behaviors of the transformation of hydantoin and their related heterocyclics to various photoproducts, the potential energy surfaces on its both singlet ground state and singlet excited state were investigated by CASSCF and MP2-CAS calculations. It will be shown below that the conical intersection (CI) [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] , whose geometrical structure is fragments-like, plays a crucial role in the unimolecular photochemistry of hydantoin.
The reaction of atomic hydrogen with isocyanic acid (HNCO) to produce the amidogen radical (NH2) and carbon monoxide, ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: has been studied in shock-heated mixtures of HNCO dilute in argon. Time-histories of the ground-state NH2 radical were measured behind reflected shock waves using cw, narrowlinewidth laser absorption at 597 nm, and HNCO time-histories were measured using infrared emission from the fundamental v2-band of HNCO near 5 μm. The second-order rate coefficient of reaction (2(a)) was determined to be: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: cm3 mol−1 s−1, where f and F define the lower and upper uncertainty limits, respectively. ::: ::: ::: ::: An upper limit on the rate coefficient of ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: was determined to be:
Introduced the current application of high-purity acetonitrile.And discussed the removal methods as well as the related principles of the main impurities in crude acetonitrile,such as hydrocyanic acid, acrylonitrile, aldehydes and ketones, oxazole, allyl alcohol and water.The general overview of the advanced high-purity refined acetonitrile processes and their contrast with the traditional refining process were summarized. Furthermore, the development trend of refined acetonitrile process was prospected.
Recently, flaxseed has become increasingly popular in the health food market because it contains a considerable amount of specific beneficial nutrients such as lignans and omega-3 fatty acids. However, the presence of cyanogenic glycosides (CGs) in flaxseed severely limits the exploitation of its health benefits and nutritive value. We, therefore, developed an effective fermentation method, optimised by response surface methodology (RSM), for degrading CGs with an enzymatic preparation that includes 12.5% β-glucosidase and 8.9% cyanide hydratase. These optimised conditions resulted in a maximum CG degradation level of 99.3%, reducing the concentration of cyanide in the flaxseed power from 1.156 to 0.015 mg g(-1) after 48 h of fermentation. The avoidance of steam heat to evaporate hydrocyanic acid (HCN) results in lower energy consumption and no environmental pollution. In addition, the detoxified flaxseed retained the beneficial nutrients, lignans and fatty acids at the same level as untreated flaxseed, and this method could provide a new means of removing CGs from other edible plants, such as cassava, almond and sorghum by simultaneously expressing cyanide hydratase and β-glucosidase.
Dry seeds may be fumigated with the usual strength of hydrocyanic acid gas for the length of time required for the destruction of animal life without in any degree interfering with the germinating power of the seeds. Dry seeds may be subjected for several months to the influence of hydrocyanic acid gas at the rate of one gram or less of potassium cyanid per cubic foot without entirely destroying the ability of the seeds to germinate. Dry seeds subjected to the influence of hydrocyanic acid gas derived from one gram of potassium cyanid per cubic foot will lose their germinating power at the expiration of eight months, while the same seeds subjected to the gas from one third of a gram of potassium cyanid per cubic foot will retain their vitality until the expiration of twelve months. The exposure of dry seeds for from fifteen to sixty days to the influence of hydrocyanic acid gas from one third to one gram of potassium cyanid per cubic foot will hasten germination and accelerate the growth of the resulting ...
The potassium bromate and hydrocyanic acid contents in commonly consumed fourteen loaves of bread and four most popular wheat flour brands among the bakers in Karu local government of Nasarawa state, Nigeria were assessed for potassium bromate and hydrocyanic acid contents. Potassium bromate in bread samples analyzed ranged between 0.5μg/g to 8.4μg/g and 0.83μg/g to 1.42μg/g in wheat flour samples. The hydrocyanic acid contents of the bread and wheat flour samples analyzed ranged between 1.510 to 3.676 mg/1000g and 0.706 to 1.498 mg/1000g sample respectively. These results implied that all the loaves of bread and wheat flour brands analysed contained potassium bromate in high quantity above safe level for human consumption and various amount of hydrocyanic acid which however, will not lead to the lethal dose of 35 mg hydrocyanic acid per kg body weight but there is need for continuous surveillance and enforcement of the ban on the use of potassium bromate in baking industry in this study area by NAFDAC.
Investigations were carried out to determine the chemical composition of the fruit of the raffia palm (Raphia hookeri: Family, Palmaceae or Palmae). The peel and pulp (edible portion) were analysed. The effect of boiling on the chemical composition of the pulp was also investigated. ::: ::: The peel contained more moisture (62·4%) than the pulp (38·0%) in terms of wet weight. The protein and ether extract contents of the peel were found to be 3·2% and 1·8% of dry material, respectively. The ash content was 5·5%. Crude fibre gave a very high value of 70·3% for the peel, but the carbohydrate content was low (19·3%). ::: ::: There were decreases in the values of some nutrients after boiling the edible pulp of the fruit. Protein content decreased from 6·1% to 4·4% upon boiling. Ether extract and carbohydrate contents decreased from 11·8% to 11·3% and from 61·4% to 58·8%, respectively. Boiling increased the crude fibre and ash contents of the pulp from 17·7% and 3·0% to 21·2% and 4·3%, respectively. The calorific value decreased from 380·5 kcals to 354·7 kcals. ::: ::: Tannin content was highest of all the toxic substances evaluated. There was a decrease from 597 to 360 mg100 g on boiling. The peel contained 234 mg100 g tannins and 24·3 mg100 g hydrocyanic acid. Boiling the pulp resulted in reduction of the HCN from 12·4 to 9·2 mg100 g, phytic acid from 1·0 to 0·4 mg100 g, and oxalate from 26·4 to 17·6 mg100 g. The peel had more oxalate (39·6 mg100 g) and cyanide (24·3 mg100 g) but less phytic acid (0·6 mg100 g) than the pulp. ::: ::: Ascorbic acid and carotene contents decreased upon cooking the pulp from 63·0 mg100 g and 33·4 μg100 g to 28·3 mg100 g and 10·6 μg100 g, respectively. The peel had an ascorbic acid content of 37·2 mg100 g and carotene content of 8·6 μg100 g. ::: ::: Calcium, potassium, sodium and phosphorus decreased with cooking, while magnesium, zinc and iron contents were increased. Potassium had the highest level followed by calcium. The pulp had (mg/100 g): K, 1075; Ca, 875; Mg, 315; Zn, 9·6; P, 76·8; and Na, 16. The peel had (mg/100 g): Ca, 250; Mg, 450; K, 700; Na, 8; Zn, 3·5; and P, 37·7. Copper, chromium and cobalt were not detected in the fruit. ::: ::: The results are discussed in terms of the value of the fruit as food for man or animals.
The reaction mechanism of germene radical with isothiocyanic acid has been investigated by B3LYP method of density function theory:The geometries and harmonic of reactants,intermediates,transition states and products have been calculated at the B3LYP/6-311++G**level.To obtain more precise energy result,stationary point energies were calculated at QCISD(T)/6-311++G**//B3LYP/6-311++G**level.Intermediates and transition states were confirmed by the results of vibration analysis and the IRC calculation.The results indicate that the reaction of singlet state germene radical with isothiocyanic acid has S-atom abstraction channel,insert N-H channel,NH abstraction channel,respectively.The pathway GeH2+HNCS→IM3 →TS2→IM4→TS3→IM5→GeH2S+HNC(P1)was the main one with the lowest activation energy,and the main products were GeH2S and HNC.The pathways of S-atom abstraction with the four-membered ring intermediate were the competitive channel.
Zn(NCO)2·2NH3 catalyst has been synthesized, characterized by X-ray diffraction and IR spectroscopy, and used as a catalyst for the cyclization of urea and ethylene glycol (EG) to ethylene carbonate (EC) for the first time. A maximum yield of 40% has been obtained with a urea/EG mole ratio of 1:1.5 and a temperature of 150 ± 2 °C. An attempt has been made to predict the mechanism of the reaction with the help of density functional theory calculations. Our calculations suggest the reaction to be a consecutive one. In the first step, urea decomposes to ammonia and isocyanic acid (HNCO). HNCO reacts with EG to produce 2-hydroxyethyl carbamate (2-HEC). At the last step, 2-HEC cyclizes over Zn(NCO)2·2NH3 to EC. Calculations suggest the cyclization of 2-HEC to follow a charge-controlled intramolecular nucleophilic elimination cyclization path.
Abstract : This report describes an investigation of the products of the photolysis of RDX, in the presence and absence of ozone. RDX in tap water reacts with UV radiation to produce nitrite ion, ammonia, and organic nitro compounds. When this complex mixture was treated with ozone, there was found carbon dioxide, cyanic acid, nitrate ion, and ammonia. If the RDX solution is simultaneously exposed to UV radiation and ozone, there is found carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, nitrate ion, and ammonia. In addition, two organic nitro compounds were found, which were different from those found in the absence of ozone.
BACKGROUND ::: Volatile monoisocyanates are formed through thermal degradation when products containing polyurethane are heated. Repeated exposure to diisocyanates, such as toluene diisocyanate (TDI) are a well-known cause of occupational asthma. However, although monoisocyanates are abundant in occupational settings, there are few data concerning their ability to provoke immune reactions and asthma. We compared immune reactivity and respiratory disease following single or repeated inhalation exposures to the monoisocyanates methyl isocyanate (MIC) and isocyanic acid (ICA) with the effects of TDI. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Isocyanates were administrated either as single vapor exposures or as repeated intranasal instillations in rats. Adverse health effects were monitored by analyzing airway inflammation, respiratory function and weight gain. Immune reactivity caused by repeated exposures was studied by analysis of isocyanate-specific antibodies and airway infiltration of immune competent cells. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Repeated exposures to TDI induced airway infiltration of neutrophils and lymphocytes, while neither MIC nor ICA provoked a detectable inflammatory response. Antibodies against isocyanate-albumin conjugates were detected in serum after both exposures to TDI and MIC, but not to ICA. TDI-exposed rats also displayed IgG antibodies against MIC-albumin conjugates. Even though MIC did not induce airway inflammation, single exposure provoked an increase in airway resistance and repeated exposures caused weight loss similar to that of TDI. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: Airway exposure to TDI produces an antibody response not only against TDI but also against MIC-protein conjugates. This indicates that immune reactivity against abundant monoisocyanates in occupational environments can occur in individuals pre-sensitized with low abundance but highly sensitizing diisocyanates.
Raman spectra of mixtures of hydrochloric acid and ammonium thiocyanate have been determined and separated by means of a curve resolver into contributions due to the thiocyanate ion and the thiocyanic acid molecule. By this meanspKa for the latter species is found to be −1.1±0.3 in aqueous solution at 20°C.
An 8-week feeding trial was conducted to determine the effects of dietary Icacinia mani (earth ball) meal (locally called efik isong by the Ibibios of Akwa Ibom State of Nigeria) on the performance of weaner rabbits. Sun-dried Icacinia mani meal (SIMM) and toasted Icacinia mani meal (TIMM) were analyzed for hydrocyanic acid (HCN) content and proximate composition and then used to make 4 diets at 10% and 20% levels each, respectively. The 5th diet (control) contained no Icacinia mani meal. Thirty weaner rabbits, weighing 720–880 g, were divided into 5 groups of 6 rabbits each and each group randomly assigned to one of the 5 experimental diets in a completely randomized design. Feed and water were provided ad libitum. Forage was provided to them as basal diet. At the end of the trial, the rabbits were slaughtered and their blood collected for determination of haematological and serum biochemical indices. No trace of HCN was detected but SIMM contained 6.13 % CP, 5.0 % EE, 8.62 % CF, 3.8 % ash and 76.5 % NFE which were not significantly affected by toasting. Feed intake, growth rate and feed conversion ratio of the rabbits on the control diet were significantly (P Icacinia mani groups recorded significantly (P 0.05) and significantly (P<05) higher than those of the control group.
During the thermal degradation of 1,6-hexamethylenediiso- cyanate-based (HDI) car paint, the eight most abundant isocyanates generated are isocyanic acid, methyl isocyanate, ethyl isocyanate, propyl isocyanate, butyl isocyanate, pentyl isocyanate, hexyl isocyanate, and 1,6-hexamethylenediisocyanate. For the first time, a method using solvent-free samplers is proposed and validated for the simultaneous sampling of all these isocyanates. The sampling efficiency during thermal degradation of car paint can be affected by the formation of dust and aerosols and by the emission of many chemicals, such as isocyanic acid, anhydrides, amines, and alcohols that consume the reagent or interfere in the derivatization procedure. Sampling was performed using cassettes containing two 1-(2-methoxyphenyl)piperazine (MOPIP)-coated glass fiber filters (MFs) (∼4.9 mg per filter) and compared with bubblers containing 15 mL of MOPIP solution in toluene (1.0 mg/mL−1) and with bubblers backed with MFs. A DIN 53436 laboratory scal...
The reactivity of isocyanic acid (HNCO) with solid ammonia (NH3) was first studied at 10 K, using FTIR spectroscopy. The ammonium isocyanate (NH4+OCN−) is formed from a reaction between HNCO and NH3. Vibrational band assignments for NH4+OCN− have been given. On the other hand, when HNCO is adsorbed on amorphous NH3 film, the reaction does not occur. Warming up of this sample at 90 K induces the NH4+OCN− formation. Quantum calculations showed that the solvation of NH3 directly bonded to HNCO by at least three NH3 molecules plays a major role in the NH4+OCN− formation process and confirmed the spontaneous character of this reaction.
Urea is thought to be responsible for the changes in histological appearance and permeability of mammalian skin described in this study. This relatively simple molecule was first found in urine in 1773 and synthetically prepared from cyanic acid and ammonia by Wohler in 1828.
The reaction of tertiary α-chloroketones with ethanolamine has not been hitherto described in the literature. Herein, we describe the reaction of tertiary 3-chloroquinoline-2,4-diones with ethanolamine to give novel 3-(2-hydroxyethylamino)quinoline-2,4-diones. These compounds provide 3-(2-oxooxazolidin-3-yl)quinoline-2,4(1H,3H)-diones and new compounds with dimeric character after reaction with triphosgene. Molecular rearrangement proceeds during the reaction of 3-(2-hydroxyethylamino)quinoline-2,4-diones with isocyanic acid. Three types of reaction products arise: 2-(2-hydroxyethyl)imidazo[1,5-c]quinazoline-3,5-diones, 3-(2-hydroxyethyl)-3,3a-dihydro-2H-imidazo[4,5-]quinoline-4(5H)diones and primarily 5-hydroxy-1-(hydroxyethyl)-1′H-spiro[imidazolidine-5,3′-indole]-2,2′-diones. The reaction mechanism and product stereochemistry are discussed. The 1H, 13C and 15N NMR spectra of the prepared compounds were measured, and all resonances were assigned from appropriate two-dimensional experiments.
The behavior of water—formamide and hydrocyanic acid—formamide solutions on an anatase surface have been studied using molecular dynamics (MD) simulation method. The interaction activation energies have been estimated for the temperature range from 250 up to 400 K. The diffusion coefficients and structural radial distribution functions have been calculated for the formamide, water and hydrocyanic acid on an anatase surface. The calculated activation energies of the water—formamide—anatase and hydrocyanic acid—formamide—anatase systems were analyzed and compared. A comparative analysis of the systems under investigation was performed and a possible correlation between the obtained MD results and the molecular mechanism involving the formamide’s interaction with dioxide titan adsorbing surface were discussed.
The reaction of atomic hydrogen with isocyanic acid (HNCO) to produce the amidogen radical (NHZ) and carbon monoxide,
The reaction of atomic hydrogen with isocyanic acid (HNCO) to produce the amidogen radical (NH,) and carbon monoxide, (2(a)) H + HNCO NH2 + CO plays an important role in the RAPRENO, process for NO reduction in combustion products [l] . Reaction (2(a)) also plays a role in fuel nitrogen conversion in rich flames [2] . The objective of the study reported in this article is to help refine current detailed kinetic models of these processes through the measurement of the rate coefficient of reaction (2(a)). Reaction (2(a)) was studied in reflected shock wave experiments using initial mixture concentrations ranging from 0.5% to 2.0% HNCO dilute in argon. Time-histories of the NH2 radical were measured behind the shock waves using cw, narrow-linewidth laser absorption at 597 nm, while HNCO time-histories were measured using infrared emission from the fundamen-tal v2-band of HNCO near 5 pm. Over this range of initial HNCO molfractions, reaction (2(a)) becomes both the dominant NH2 formation reaction and the most important HNCO removal reaction. Hence, it is possible to make independent determinations of k2a from the NH2 and the HNCO measurements.
Background: Interleukin-8 (IL-8) functions as a major chemoattractant and plays pivotal roles in the initiation and development of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and tobacco smoke is a most risk factor contributing to the development of COPD. Hence, we have screened some of the tobacco smoke-derived chemical compounds that potentially induce the production of IL-8 in human bronchial epithelium, 16HBE cells. Methods: Twenty-eight hazardous smoke components belonging to 9 classes including nicotine, ammonia, aromatic amines, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, phenols, carbonyls, hydrocyanic acid, nitrosamines and other volatile organics were used in the experiments. Proliferation of 16HBE cells was determined by cell counting kit-8 kit, luciferase activity was measured in IL-8 reporter gene-expressing 16HBE cells, and IL-8 levels in culture supernatants were quantified by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.
Using apricot kernel meal as a source of protein in the diets of domestic animals has only been studied among broiler chickens [15] , and sheep used for fertilizer [16] and is thus not a widespread practice. Nevertheless, several studies have examined the hydrocyanic acid content of apricot kernels [17] . This rate depends on the variety of apricot grown (sweet or bitter kernels) [18] and the percentage of each variety in the overall quota handled by the agri-food industry. An increase in the land dedicated to apricot trees in Algeria, made possible by successive National Agricultural Development Plans in particular in the Hrodna region, has led to an accumulation of by-products generated by the agro-industry through production from the young orchards which cover an average area of 47,000 ha [14] , planted extensively with a density of 300 trees per hectare.
The dissociation curves of the photolysis of the isocyanic acid\(HNCO\xrightarrow{{hv}}HN + CO\) corresponding to the ground state (S0) the first triplet excited state (T1) and the first singlet excited state (S1) have been studied respectively at the UHF/6-311G** and CIS/6-311G** levels usingab initio method. The energy surface crossing points, S1/T1, T1/S0 and S1/S0, have been found and the characteristics of the energy minimum crossing point were given, based on which, the changes of the crossing points’ geometries along the lower electronic energy surface and its end-result have been located according to the steepest descent principle. The computational result indicates that the photolysis of the isocyanic acid\(HNCO\xrightarrow{{hv}}HN + CO\) has three competitive reaction channels ((A)—(C)), and from the kinetic piont of view, channel (A) is the most advantageous.
A study was done of the thermal decomposition of urea under open reaction vessel conditions by thermogravimetric analysis (TGA), high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), Fourier transform-infrared (FT-IR), and an ammonium ion-selective electrode (ISE). Both evolved gases and urea residue were analyzed, and profiles of substances present versus temperature are given. Major reaction intermediates are also identified. Plausible reaction schemes based on product distribution in relation to temperature are proposed. Our data indicate that at temperatures in excess of 190 ◦ C, cyanuric acid (CYA), ammelide and ammeline are produced primarily from biuret. Biuret itself is a result of prior reaction of cyanic acid, HNCO, with intact urea. Cyanic acid is primarily a result of urea decomposition at temperatures in excess of 152 ◦ C. CYA and ammelide first appear at approximately 175 ◦ C, but the reaction rate is very slow. At temperatures in excess of 193 ◦ C, alternate reactions involving the decomposition of biuret substantially increases reaction rates. Several parallel processes compete for the production of products. Production of CYA, ammeline and ammelide appears complete at 250 ◦ C, after which sublimation and eventual
Abstract The compound 2-(2-selenocyanic acid ethyl ester)-1 H -benz[de] isoquinoline-1,3-(2 H )-dione (SEBID), a ubiquitous, bioactive naphthalimide derivative is expected to possess an anticancer, anti-tumor and other important therapeutic activities of significant potency with low systematic toxicity. In this paper, the synthesis of the compound, photophysics of the newly prepared naphthalimide derivative and its interaction with model transport protein Bovine serum albumin (BSA) have been reported using the absorption and steady state fluorescence spectroscopic techniques exploiting the intrinsic fluorescence emission properties of BSA as a probe. Interaction of this organoselenium compound in different dioxane–water mixtures with increase in the polarity of the medium has been studied spectroscopically. Interaction of SEBID with BSA leads to a dramatic decrease in the fluorescence intensity of BSA, which suggests the binding of SEBID with the tryptophan residue of BSA. Furthermore, different thermodynamic parameters for SEBID–BSA interaction have been calculated. Rationalization of the data has been attempted, particularly in relation to prospective applications in the biomedical research.
The Schmidt reaction is the acid-catalyzed analogue of the Curtius reaction and is extensively used in organic synthesis. In this work, the mechanism of this reaction has been explored using DFT calculations at the B3LYP/6-311+G(d,p) level. Protonated formyl azide may undergo rearrangement to the product, protonated isocyanic acid, with simultaneous extrusion of molecular nitrogen (concerted mechanism), or undergo rearrangement to the anti conformer, followed by removal of nitrogen to form the nitrenium ion, which then rearranges to the final product, protonated isocyanic acid (step-wise mechanism). Like the Curtius reaction, it is found that the concerted pathway is definitely preferred. The key role of acidification in decreasing the overall energy barrier is more highlighted in case of phenyl substitution, with negligible effect on the lower homologues. For methoxy and amine substituents, there is very little difference in the activation energies of the concerted and step-wise reactions, with the former being still slightly preferred. Unlike the parent compound, the rearrangement of substituted nitrenium ion in some cases involves side reactions like C-H insertion and cyclization.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the hydrocyanic acid content in leaves of Manihot genus accessions with potential to animal feeding.
The invention provides a green process for preparing orthoformate. A hydrogen chloride alcohol solution is prepared from a byproduct hydrogen chloride tail gas of the chlorine-related synthesis industry and then is slowly added into a reaction system, so that loss caused by escape of hydrocyanic acid is reduced, the yield is increased, great equipment corrosion caused by the byproduct hydrochloric acid prepared by the companies is avoided, the economic additional value of the byproduct hydrogen chloride is greatly increased, three wastes are avoided, the byproduct only comprises ammonium chloride, resources are reasonably utilized, and the green process for preparing the orthoformate is an environment-friendly production process and has a good social benefit.
The peels of Sclerocarya birrea were evaluated for its nutritional and antinutritional composition. The results show that the moisture, ash, crude protein, crude lipid, crude fibre, available carbohydrate and energy value were 67.55±0.23% weight wet, 10.21 ± 0.21 %, 8.33 ± 0.18 %, 2.42 ± 0.03 %, 6.56 ± 0.10 %, 72.47 ± 0.48 % and 345.05 ± 0.50 kcal/100g dry weight respectively. The result of minerals analysis showed that the peel is a good source of both macro and micro elements with calcium as predominant. The sample is a good source isoleucine. The concentrations of hydrocyanic acid, nitrate, oxalate and phytate were lower than the reference toxic standard level. The results indicate that if the peels are properly exploited and process, they could be a high quality and cheap source of carbohydrates and minerals supplement in the formulation of animal feeds.
Leaves of 3 genetically improved varieties of cassava plants were harvested and subjected to different processing methods including sun-drying (SND), oven-drying (OVD), steaming (STM), shredding (SHD) and steeping (STP) and a combination of these methods to deliberately reduce the high level of cyanogenic glucosides present in the leaves. A combination of SHD and SND (SHD+SND) seemed to be the most effective technique of reducing the cyanide content. Proximate/mineral composition and gross energy were determined. Particular attention was paid into the determination of hydrocyanic acid (HCN), polyphenols (tannic acid) and phytic acid as they constitute the major anti-nutrients militating against the utilization of cassava leaf in animal nutrition. The leaves contained: crude protein 348.0gkg DM (range: -1 332.0 363.0gkg DM); crude fibre 121.0gkg DM (range: 115.0 127.0gkg DM); ether extract 70.0gkg DM -1 -1 -1 -1 (range: 63.0 75.0gkg DM); ash 69.0gkg DM (range: 63.0 78.0gkg DM) and gross energy 47.0MJkg -1 -1 -1 -1 (range: 46.5 47.2MJkg ). The CLM protein content was high and comparable with some rich conventional -1 protein sources of plant and animal origins used in monogastric feed formulation. The mineral content was high particularly Ca, Zn, Ni and K. The “cyanide scare” associated with acute intoxification when food substances rich in cyanide is ingested at high levels seemed to be obviated by a combination of processing methods (SHD+SND).
Abstract The isocyano content of several cross-linked polymer samples, carrying ca. 0.5–3.0 mmole of isocyanide groups per gram, was determined by reacting the resins with excess of bromine in chloroform, then treating the unreacted bromine with potassium iodide and titrating the liberated iodine with thiosulphate. The method is not suitable for titration of soluble isocyanides, but for the determination of insoluble macromolecular isocyanides is more satisfactory than the thiocyanic acid method.
Identification and monitoring of gaseous species released during thermal decomposition of the title compound 1, Zn(tu)2Cl2, (tu=thiourea, (NH2)2C=S) have been carried out in flowing air atmosphere up to 800°C by both online coupled TG-EGA-FTIR and simultaneous TG/DTA-EGA-MS. The first gaseous products of 1, between 200 and 240°C, are carbon disulfide (CS2) and ammonia (NH3). At 240°C, an exothermic oxidation of CS2 vapors occurs resulting in a sudden release of sulphur dioxide (SO2) and carbonyl sulphide (COS). An intense evolution of hydrogen cyanide (HCN) and beginning of the evolution of cyanamide (H2NCN) and isothiocyanic acid (HNCS) are also observed just above 240°C. Probably because of condensation and/or polymerization of cyanamide vapors on the windows and mirrors of the FTIR gas cell optics, some strange baseline shape changes are also occurring above 330°C. Above 500°C the oxidation process of organic residues appears to accelerate which is indicated by the increasing concentration of CO2, while above 600°C zinc sulfide starts to oxidize resulting in the evolution of SO2. All species identified by FTIR gas cell were also confirmed by mass spectrometry, except for HNCS.
Polyaniline and its derivatives have high antioxidative stability and are considered to belong to the most useful conductive polymers for practical application. In this work, we have linked 1,4-phenylenediamine to poly(styrene-co-chloromethylstyrene) and prepared poly(styrene-co-p-aminoanilinemethylstyrene), poly(S-co-PAAMS). Polystyrene-graft-polyaniline, (PS-g-PANi), has been synthesized by adding solution of ammonium persulfate and p-toluenesufonic acid in water. The conductivity of these polymers was measured by the four-point probe method. The copolymers produced exhibit electrical conductivity comparable to that of polyaniline. PS-g-PANi was also exposed to some cyanide compounds such as hydrocyanic acid (Hydrogen cyanide-HC), ethanedinitrile (Cyanogen-CY), cyanogen chloride (Chlorocyan-CC), and cyanogen bromide (Bromocyan-BC). The cyanide compounds are classified as blood agents groups, in terms of chemical warfare agents standards. First, we prepared different concentration of blood agents at 50, 100, and 150 ppm and exposed them on PS-g-PANi for 2 min. Second, we have drawing conductivity change curves versus time and produced optimum conductivity versus time taken. © 2006 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Appl Polym Sci 101: 3920–3926, 2006
Topsin M70% individually and/or their mixtures were tested in vitro and greenhouse conditions to control damping-off and root rot diseases of pea plants (Pisum sativum L., cv. Master P) caused by Rhizoctonia solani. The ability of tested Rhizobium leguminosarum and Trichodermia viride to exhibit plant growth promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR)-properties including ability to solubilize-P and production of IAA, as well as production of siderophores, hydrocyanic acid (HCN) and secretion of cell-wall degrading enzymes (chitinase and protease) were investigated. Also, under in vitro conditions the effect of Topsin M70% on growth of R. solani and T. viride, R. leguminosarum and their mixtures was determined. The fungicide effective concentration was found to range from 10 to 50 ppm for R. solani and T. viride mycelial growth being 83.30, 100, 76.08 and 100% at 40 and 50 ppm of Topsin M70%. The same trend was obtained with R. leguminosarum that showed maximum tolerance at 40 and 50 ppm of Topsin M70% with the average of 52.19 and 59.85% inhibition over control, respectively. Additionally, greenhouse conditions were conducted on sandy clay soil at Etay El Baroud Agricultural Research Station, Beheria Government, Egypt to study the singly effect of seed soaking in T. viride, R. leguminosarum or their mixtures with the soil drench fungicide in pots after sowing of pea cv. Master P in concern. Significant decrease of damping-off and root rot of pea was obtained. Numbers of survived plants, shoot length as well as, fresh and dry weight were recorded. The combined treatments R. leguminosarum + Topsin M70%, T. viride + Topsin M70% and R. leguminosarum + T. viride + Topsin M70% were the most effective ones resulting the least percentage of total dampingoff and the highest percentage of healthy plants being 96.67 and100.00%, respectively. Seed treatment with T. viride, R. leguminosarum and drenched fungicide individually or in mixture improved plant growth as indicated by the increased growth parameters and the physiological activities (phytosynthetic pigments, peroxidase and polyphenol oxidase), especially in combined treatments. Peroxidase and polyphenol oxidase activities were increased in the different treatments-even, the fungicide drench treatment. Reduction in total damping-off was positively correlated with both peroxidase (R 2 = 96.70, P ˂ 0.005) and polyphenol oxidase (R 2 = 89.60, P ˂ 0.005) activities.
In order to investigate the growth characteristics,production performance,nutritional value and cytogenetic characteristics of the four new strains of sorghum-sudangrass SLCN-11,SLCN-12,SLCN-13,SLCN-14,the main agronomic characteristics and chromosome configuration,such as the growth rate,fertility,photosynthetic performance,fresh and seed yields,hydrocyanic acid content,nutrients and so on,were analyzed.The four new strains grew fast and were tall,tillering ability was strong,the growth period was 130-138 d,the ear type was in middle of their parents,pollen fertility rate was above 96%,seed setting rate was 72.11%-73.34%,The chromosome pairing behavior at PMC M I was regular(2n=2x=20=10Ⅱ).The four new strains had stronger photosynthetic capacity.Their fresh and seed yields were high.The fresh and seed yields of strain SLCN-11 were the highest.The hydrocyanic acid content of the four new strains were low,the hydrocyanic acid content in fresh sorghum-sudangrass was only 5.80-10.43 mg/kg when the plant height was about 100 cm,which was safe for feeding animals.The ratio of stem to leave was low and the nutritional value was high.At the jointing stage,the crude protein content of four new strains was 14.67%-16.31%,the crude fiber content was 24.31%-24.72%,and was rich in crude fat,nitrogen free extract,calcium,phosphorus and amino acids.
Abstract The set-up and operating principle of an analyzer, which can be used without any filter for the continuous measurement of ammonia (NH 3 ) and isocyanic acid (HNCO) in soot containing exhaust gases is described. Ammonia and isocyanic acid are dissolved in a buffer solution, in which ammonia is measured directly with an ammonia-sensitive electrode. The sum of ammonia and isocyanic acid is measured with the same method after hydrolysis of HNCO to NH 3 and CO 2 . Ammonia and isocyanic acid concentrations of up to ∼500 ppm can be measured with a mean relative error of 3.6% at a standard deviation of 4.0%. The investigation of the urea thermohydrolysis, which is an important step in the selective catalytic reduction (SCR) of nitrogen oxides in Diesel exhaust gases, revealed the emission of toxic isocyanic acid besides ammonia from the SCR catalyst.
Abstract : A class of room temperature ionic liquids (RTILs) that exhibit hypergolic activity towards strong nitric acid is reported. Fast ignition of dicyanamide ionic liquids when mixed with nitric acid is contrasted with the reactivity of the ionic liquid azides, which show high reactivity with nitric acid, but do not ignite. The reactivity of other potential salt fuels is assessed here. Rapid-scan, Fourier Transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy of the pre-ignition phase indicates the evolution of N2O from both the dicyanamide and azide RTILs. Evidence for the evolution of CO2 and isocyanic acid (HNCO) with similar temporal behavior to N2O from reaction of the dicyanamide ionic liquids with nitric acid is presented. Evolution of HN3 is detected from the azides. No evolution of HCN from the dicyanamide reactions was detected. From the FTIR observations, biuret reaction tests and initial ab initio calculations, a mechanism is proposed for the formation of N2O, CO2 and HNCO from the dicyanamide reactions during pre-ignition.
The presence of hydrocyanic acid in all ::: known sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) ::: Moench] plants and its toxicity to cattle when ::: present in high concentration makes it nccessary ::: to monitor the HCN content. The HCN ::: content in the green crop (at the flowering ::: stage) and in the partially dry crop (at grain ::: maturity) is not known for many,of the grain ::: hybrids and varieties released for cultivation ::: by the All-India Co-ordioated Sorghum Improvement ::: Project. The present study was ::: conducted to assess the HCN content in ::: released' grain hybrids, varieties and their ::: parents at the fowering stage and at grain ::: maturity.
The hydrazinecarbothioamide was prepared from hydrocyanic acid, hydrazine hydrate, and sulphur. The total yield is over 80%.
The evolution of the i.r. absorption intensity of the NH stretching band and the band width, and the origin of additional protonic bands, have been studied in adducts of isothiocyanic acid with a series of proton acceptors covering a range of hydrogen bond strengths from very weak to those with proton transfer. Equations correlating the integrated intensity and the band width with Δν are given. In the spectra of adducts with strong acceptors (sulphoxides, phosphine oxides, etc.) extra protonic bands were observed similar to those in adducts of carboxylic acids. Isothiocyanic acid allows a better establishment of the relation between these bands and the original νNH which is important in view of the recent hypothesis about the origin of these bands. Some far-i.r. bands and overtones were recorded. Dielectric studies confirm the existence of both the 1 : 1 and 1 : 2 acid–base ratio in some adducts as found by i.r. work. The polarisation of the hydrogen bond of some adducts is derived, yielding Δµ up to 3·64 D.
Conclusions1. The oils of wild almonds are very similar in fatty acid composition and physical and chemical properties to the oil of cultivated almonds.2. The oils ofAmygdalus bucharica andA. Petounnicovii have a higher content of triunsaturated glycerides than the oil of cultivated almonds.3. The replacement of cold pressing of almond kernels by low-temperature extraction does not adversely affect the quality of the oils. They do not contain any hydrocyanic acid and, according to pharmacological tests, can be recommended as medicinal oils.
This invention has disclosed a kind of producing method for DL-mandelic acid; comprising the steps of: cyanidation, mix benzaldehyde with acidity or alkaline catalyst, supplement water, add cyaniding hydrogen air or hydrocyanic acid solution, react to mandelonitrile; -hydrolysis, put mineral acid into the solution and hydrolyze, form hydrolysis solution contained DL-mandelic acid and mineral acid ammonium salts after hydrolysis entirety; -crystal, supplement water and cycle mother liquor into hydrolysis solution, crystallisate by cooling, centrifugal separate to find DL-mandelic acid coarse product and mother liquor contains DL-mandelic acid and mineral acid ammonium salts; mother liquor handling, adding inorganic basic substance, crystallisate by cooling after ordinary pressure or reduction concentrating, centrifugally get rid of mineral acid ammonium salts, the rest mother liquor recycle to hydrolysis procedure; DL-mandelic acid refining, dissolve DL-mandelic acid coarse product into water, add active carbon to decolor, filtrate, crystal, centrifugation and drying to gain DL-mandelic acid finished product whose yield is high and cost is low.
Abstract Absolute rate coefficients for the reaction of NCO radicals with methane ( k 1 ), ethane ( k 2 ), and propane ( k 3 ) were measured as a function of temperature in a heatable quartz reactor by means of the laser photolysis/laser-induced fluorescence (LP/LIF) pump-probe technique. NCO radicals were produced by the fast precursor reaction NH( a 1 Δ) +HNCO → NH 2 + NCO, following the 193-nm photolysis of isocyanic acid. The measured rate coefficients can be described by the following expressions: (1) k 1 ( 512 T 1113 K ) = 10 12.99 ± 0.12 × exp ⁡ ( − 34.0 ± 1.8 k J mol − 1 / R T ) c m 3 mol − 1 s − 1 , (2) k 1 ( 296 T 922 K ) = 10 8.21 × ( T / 298 K ) ( 6.89 ± 0.02 ) × exp ⁡ ( 12.2 ± 0.5 k J mol − 1 / R T ) c m 3 mol − 1 s − 1 , (3) k 3 ( 300 T 849 K ) = 10 11.49 × ( T / 298 K ) ( 2.15 ± 0.02 ) × exp ⁡ ( − 1.8 ± 0.4 k J mol − 1 / R T ) c m 3 mol − 1 s − 1 A comparison with the corresponding reactions of CN, Cl, and OH radicals with alkanes suggests that all these title reactions also proceed predominantly via a hydrogen atom abstraction mechanism to form HNCO.
The reaction mechanism for the thermal Curtius reaction of formyl azide has been investigated using B3LYP/6-311+G(d,p). It is found that, while the synisomer undergoes nitrogen elimination via a concerted mechanism, yielding isocyanic acid directly, the anti-isomer cannot undergo reaction via the concerted mechanism and first eliminates nitrogen, yielding oxazirene, via a transition state which is higher in energy than that for the concerted mechanism. Singlet formyl nitrene does not exist as an independent moiety. Rather, the strong NO interaction yields the cyclic isomer oxazirene. The isomerization of oxazirene to isocyanic acid goes through a transition state which is even higher in energy than that for nitrogen elimination. It is hence proposed that this reaction should take place via the concerted mechanism only, the anti-isomer undergoing isomerization first to the syn isomer since the activation barrier for this step is very small. The same mechanism is found to prevail for acetyl and benzoyl azide. These findings are in accord with all experimental data. © 2008 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Int J Quantum Chem, 2009
In this study unfermented cassava mash was prepared and developed into four different samples A, B ,C and D as an approach to add and improve nutritive value. To obtain flour sample (A) containing only 100% unfermented cassava, the mash was dried and milled. Part of the unfermented cassava mash was supplemented with to prepare flour sample (B) in the ratio of 80:20 respectively. Flour sample (D), 100% was obtained by fermenting cassava mash for 48 hours followed by drying and milling. Flour sample (C) was obtained from fermented cassava mash supplemented with soy mash of ratio of 80:20 respectively. All the cassava flour samples were each subjected to proximate composition, hydrocyanic acid, sensory quality and nutritive value analyses. The results showed that protein, fat, ash, crude fiber increased with fermentation. The protein content of fermented cassava-soy flour was 12.14+0.28 and was found to be greater than the unfermented cassava-soy flour (9.84+0.04). Hydrocyanic acid deceased with soy supplementation and fermentation. The results of sensory quality analysis showed that there was no significant difference (p>0.05 in the overall acceptability of the various cassava flours at. However, the results revealed significant differences in colour, aroma, texture and taste of the four cassava flours. The fermented soy supplemented cassava flour was higher in nutritive value than the rest of the flour samples in all aspects including; WG (4.01), NU (0.02), FND (52.56),PER (0.033), and FCE (54.76). These were closely related to the control (casein). Keywords : Supplementation, fermentation, cassava, Sensory, Nutritive(c)
Publisher Summary This chapter discusses carbonic acid and its derivatives, a large and diverse group of compounds. Metacarbonic acid and its esters, such as carbon dioxide, esters of carbonic acid, anhydrides of primary esters of carbonic acid, mixed anhydrides of primary carbonates, and mono-carboxylic acids are also profiled with detailed information on general methods of preparation, properties, and typical reactions. Halides of carbonic acid, sulfur analogues of carbonic acid, and their derivatives, such as carbon oxysulfide and carbon disulfide, thiocarbonic acids and their halides, such as thiophosgene, amides, and related derivatives of carbonic acid, and the thiocarbonic acids are illustrated in a systematic manner. Special stress is evident in the discussion on urea and its derivatives, such as halogenoureas, ureides, and so on because of its commercial relevance as a fertilizer. Derivatives of iminodicarboxylic acid, such as biuret and nitrilotricarboxylic acid, sulfur analogues of carbamic acid, and hydrazino, azo, and azido derivatives of thiocarbonic acid are also emphasized in this chapter. Sulfur compounds of cyanogens, such as thiocyanic acid, cyanamide and its derivatives, and derivatives of carbodi-imide and orthocarbonic acid are also covered.
The carrier-based and carrier-free (cross-linked enzyme aggregate) covalent immobilizations of Prunus dulcis hydroxynitrile lyase were investigated. The immobilized preparations were tested for enantioselective carbon–carbon bond formation activity in the biphasic medium. Of the tested preparations, only cross-linked enzyme aggregate of P. dulcis hydroxynitrile lyase (PdHNL-CLEA) achieved the synthesis of (R)-mandelonitrile with 93 % yield and 99 % enantiopurity. PdHNL-CLEA was also used in the synthesis of various (R)-cyanohydrins from corresponding aldehydes/ketones and hydrocyanic acid. When 4-methoxybenzaldehyde, 4-methyl benzaldehyde, and 4-hydroxybenzaldehyde were used as substrates, the yield-enantiomeric excess of corresponding (R)-cyanohydrins were obtained as 95–95, 85–79, and 2–25 %, respectively, after 96 h at pH 4.0 and 5 °C. For acetophenone, 4-fluoroacetophenone, 4-chloroacetophenone, 4-bromoacetophenone, and 4-iodoacetophenone, the yield-enantiomeric excess of corresponding (R)-cyanohydrins were 1–99, 20–84, 11–95, 5–99, and 3–24 %, respectively at the same conditions. The results demonstrate PdHNL-CLEA can be effectively used in the synthesis of (R)-mandelonitrile.
The degradation of cyanogenic glycosides was studied in spontaneously fermenting cassava root pulp and in fresh pulp samples pretreated to prevent either endogenous beta-glycosidase activity, fermentation, or both. The rate of disappearance of the glycosides, as measured by hydrocyanic acid (HCN) production in situ, in membrane-sterilised media or in samples containing 1% sodium iodoacetate, was comparable with the untreated control in which 85% of the substrate was broken down within 72 h. Pretreatment of the fresh pulp with the beta-glucosidase inhibitor 1,5-gluconolactone (1%) markedly reduced the rate of disappearance of the cyanogens while inclusion of glucose in this test medium at the 3% level appeared to induce some hydrolysis. Loss of bound (glycosidic) cyanide in sterilised medium containing the glucosidase inhibitor was negligible. The results suggest that the contribution of the fermentation process in cyanide detoxification of pulped cassava roots is minimal.
In connection with the fumigation of citrus trees with hydrocyanic acid for the control of scale insect pests, it is shown that certain of these scale insects when first exposed to sublethal concentrations of HCN become stupefied and consequently more resistant to the action of HCN than do scale insects not so stupefied. Extensive experiments show that an exposure of more than one minute, but less than three minutes, to such sublethal concentrations is necessary, however, to cause this increased resistance. Studies of the concentration and distribution of HCN under fumigation tents show that under summer night fumigation conditions uniform distribution of HCN is accomplished in a short enough period of time to prevent any protection by stupefaction when HCN is applied either with an atomizer or vaporizer, but that under winter daylight conditions, the atomizing pump does not produce sufficiently rapid distribution of HCN to prevent this phenomenon. At any time when the temperature of the ground under the tent is lower than the temperature of the air above and consequently no convection currents are present, it is necessary to use the vaporizer to obtain quick and uniform distribution of HCN.
Good yields of N-substituted ureas were obtained by reacting amines with N-nitroso-N-methylurea in aqueous solution. It has been shown that N-nitroso-N-methylurea decomposed into methylnitrosamide and isocyanic acid. Similarly, N-nitroso-N, N′-dimethylurea and amines gave rise to good yields of N-substituted-N′-methylureas.
3-Dimethylamino-2,2-dimethyl-2H-azirine (1) reacts with carbon disulfide to give crystals which have the dipolar structure 3a [(4,4-dimethyl-2-thiazoIine-5.dimethyliminium)-2- thiolate, Scheme 1]. In solution, the non-dipolar (charge-free) isomeric form 3b (1-Dimethylthiocarbamoyl-1-methyl-ethyl isothiocyanate) is almost exclusively populated. Reaction products are derived from both forms: Derivatives of 3a are the hydrolysis product 6, the sodium borohydride reduction product 7 and the methylation products 9 and 10, respectively (Scheme 2). The isothiocyanate form 3b is responsible for the various reaction products with amines (Scheme 3). One of the reaction products with ammonia, namely 20, is also obtained by the reaction of 1 with thiocyanic acid. 'Thermolysis of the azirine/carbon disulfide adduct 3 leads to 2-dimethylamino-4,4-dimethyl-2-thiazoline-5-thione (17) in high yield. A possible mechanism is outlined in Scheme 4. The same compound is also formed by rearrangement of 3 under the catalytic influence of dimethylamine. Its structure has been established by X-ray crystallography (section 4). Again a rearrangement is involved in the reductive (NaBH4) conversion of 17 to 7, the direct reduction product of the dipolar species 3a (Scheme 5). The isothiocyanate form 3b is able to react with a second molecule of 3-dimethylamino-2,2-dimethyI-2H-azirine (1) to yield compound 25, which in the crystalline or dissolved state appears to be almost entirely populated by the carbodiimide form with structure 25b (Scheme 7), though all reaction products of 25 (reduction with sodium borohydride, addition of water or hydrogen sulfide, Schemes 7 and 8) are derived from the dipolar form 25a, not detectable as such; here again therefore there is a dynamic equiilibrium 25a - 25b. The two forms of adduct 3, namely 3a and 3b, are obviously very easily interconverted at room temperature and therefore can be considered as valence polaromeric forms (section 5). A classification of the dipolar (zwitterionic) form is given, which allows a comparison of various dipolar species and gives an indication of charge stabilization by delocalization. The versatile reactivity of the 3-dimethylamino-2,2-dimethy1-2H-azirine/carbon disulfide adduct is demonstrated by the fact that with simple reagents approximately 25 derivatives have been obtained, most of them being new heterocyclic compounds.
Using conditions of the present invention provides a simple method of acrylonitrile byproduct hydrocyanic acid of high purity production orthoformate, wherein acrylonitrile byproduct hydrocyanic acid and fatty alcohol and hydrogen chloride imide is first produced, and then the presence of the corresponding fatty alcohol the alcoholysis reaction, the reaction solution obtained orthoformate. In orthoformate reaction liquid was added an appropriate amount of a basic substance, decomposition of a nitrogen-containing compound impurity byproducts 1,3,5-triazine at a certain temperature, the decomposition products of ammonia and low boiling point formate solids, post treatment after the reaction solution, through normal distillation, a high purity can be obtained orthoformate, so as to achieve the production of high-purity orthoformate in high yield.
Thirty-five isolates of actinomycetes were characterized for their antagonistic potential against phyto-pathogens of chickpea by dual-culture and metabolite production assays. The seven most promising isolates of Streptomyces were evaluated for their physiological and plant growth-promoting traits under in vitro and in vivo conditions. All the seven isolates exhibited good growth at temperatures between 20 and 40 °C, pH between 7 and 11 and saline concentrations up to 4%; all the isolates were highly tolerant to fungicide Bavistin, three isolates were moderately tolerant to Captan and all the isolates were susceptible to Thiram, Benlate and Ridomil. All the seven isolates of Streptomyces produced siderophore, chitinase (except isolate CAI-133), cellulase, lipase, protease (except isolates BCA-689 and CAI-133), hydrocyanic acid (except isolate CAI-133), indole acetic acid and β-1,3-glucanase. The greenhouse studies revealed that the isolates of Streptomyces enhanced the plant growth by promoting root length and weight, nodule numbers, shoot weight, pod numbers and pod weight over the un-inoculated control. Under field conditions, the Streptomyces treated plots increased the nodule numbers, root weight, stover yield and grain yield over the un-inoculated control plots. In the rhizosphere, the Streptomyces were also found to enhance the total nitrogen, available phosphorus and organic carbon compared to un-inoculated control. The colonizing capability of the Streptomyces on the roots of chickpea was confirmed by scanning electron microscopic analysis. All the isolates were identified as Streptomyces species by 16S rDNA analysis; five of the seven isolates clustered in one clade, whereas the other two belonged to two different clades in phylogenetic analysis.
Roxithromycin is a kind of semi-synthetical antibiotic drugs of large ring lactone. Roxithromycin is produced basically by synthesize from β-methoxy ethoxy methyl chloride and Oximido erythrocin that has been oximated from Sulfocyanic acid and Erythromycin. the technical course of Roxithromycin preparation referred to the literature at home and abroad was ameliorated.
Recommendations for fumigating nursery stock in the different states vary considerably in the strength of hydrocyanic acid gas to use and the time of exposure necessary. The variations in temperature and humidity throughout the United States would not permit of standard fumigation regulations for the entire country. It would seem desirable for the states in each section (for example, the Southern States) to adopt similar fumigation requirements for each kind of plant to be fumigated. Suggest further experiments to determine the fumigation schedule that could be adopted in each group of states in the country.
Abstract. A growing number of ambient measurements of isocyanic acid (HNCO) are being made, yet little is known about its fate in the atmosphere. To better understand HNCO's loss processes and particularly its atmospheric partitioning behaviour, we measure its effective Henry's Law coefficient KHeff with a bubbler experiment using chemical ionization mass spectrometry as the gas phase analytical technique. By conducting experiments at different pH values and temperature, a Henry's Law coefficient KH of 26 ± 2 M atm−1 is obtained, with an enthalpy of dissolution of −34 ± 2 kJ mol−1, which translates to a KHeff of 31 M atm−1 at 298 K and at pH 3. Our approach also allows for the determination of HNCO's acid dissociation constant, which we determine to be Ka = 2.1 ± 0.2 × 10−4 M at 298 K. Furthermore, by using ion chromatography to analyze aqueous solution composition, we revisit the hydrolysis kinetics of HNCO at different pH and temperature conditions. Three pH-dependent hydrolysis mechanisms are in play and we determine the Arrhenius expressions for each rate to be k1 = (4.4 ± 0.2) × 107 exp(−6000 ± 240∕T) M s−1, k2 = (8.9 ± 0.9) × 106 exp(−6770 ± 450∕T) s−1 and k3 = (7.2 ± 1.5) × 108 exp(−10 900 ± 1400∕T) s−1, where k1 is for HNCO + H++ H2O → NH4++ CO2, k2 is for HNCO + H2O → NH3 + CO2 and k3 is for NCO−+ 2 H2O → NH3+ HCO3−. HNCO's lifetime against hydrolysis is therefore estimated to be 10 days to 28 years at pH values, liquid water contents, and temperatures relevant to tropospheric clouds, years in oceans and months in human blood. In all, a better parameterized Henry's Law coefficient and hydrolysis rates of HNCO allow for more accurate predictions of its concentration in the atmosphere and consequently help define exposure of this toxic molecule.
he utilization of high-cyanide cassava as food is limited and mostly used as raw material for tapioca industry. This research aimed to apply the crushing + pressing method and the fermentation process using Saccharomyces cerevisiae in the powder form to decrease the hydrocyanic acid content and increase the protein content of high-cyanide cassava. The research was conducted in a Completely Randomized Block Design with two factors. The first factor was the ratio of water addition on pressing process with three levels that were 10 times, 15 times, and 20 times: the second factor was the concentration of Saccharomyces cerevisiae with four levels, i.e. 1.0%, 1.5%, 2%, and 2.5%. The research results showed that the ratio of water addition 20 times on pressing process and the concentration of Saccharomyces cerevisiae 2.5% was the best treatment that would produce cassava flour with optimal characteristic as food, which has hydrocyanic acid content of 8.54 mg/kg, protein content of 7.85%, starch content of 48.44%, dietary fiber content of 9.48%, and white degree of 86.3%. Reduction of cyanide acid content and increased protein content through application of crushing+ pressing method and fermentation process will increase the potential use of high-cyanide cassava as food.
In order to breed new strain of Sorghum-Sudangrass of super-low hydrocyanic acid content and good agronomic traits,the ISSR molecular marker technology was used in study on breeding four hybrid offsprings via crossing between loose spike Sorghum and black hull Sudangrass,white hull Sudangrass,brown hull Sudangrass,red hull Sudangrass.Four new strains of Sorghum-Sudangrass with excellent agronomic traits and super-low hydrocyanic acid content in fresh grass(HCN content just was only 2.58~4.77mg/kg in fresh grass when the height was 100cm),loose spike Sorghum-black hull Sudangrass,loose spike Sorghum-white hull Sudangrass,loose spike Sorghum-brown Sudangrass,loose spike Sorghum-red Sudangrass,were obtained firstly.The two new strains of loose spike Sorghum-black hull Sudangrass and loose spike Sorghum-white hull Sudangrass had some characteristic ISSR fragments associated with low HCN content,which were H-1,H-2,H-3 and B-1,B-2,B-3.The target traits associated with molecule markers was accurate,reliable,and genetically stable.
The solvent extraction of hydrohalogenic acids and thiocyanic acid (HX) in 1 mol dm−3 electrolyte solutions with trioctylphosphine oxide (E) has been studied at 25 °C. The extraction constant, Kex1=[HXE]org[H+]−1[X−]−1][E]org−1, for thiocyanic acid was found to be 102.5, while Kex2=[HXE2]org[H+]−1[X−]−1[E]org−2 for hydrobromic and hydroiodic acids were found to be 100.34 and 101.78 respectively.
The reaction between 4-cholesten-3-one (IV) and thiocyanic acid was investigated and it has been confirmed that thiocyanic acid was added to α, β-unsaturated ketone system to yield 5α-isothiocyanatocholestan-3-one. By this addition reaction, a number of isothiocyanato derivatives of steroidal hormones were prepared.
Fruit of the tropical vine Monstera deliciosa undergo a pronounced climacteric during ripening with the concomitant large increase in ethylene production. The ripe fruit contains 19.1% soluble solids and 0.41% oxalic acid; the juice is considered safe for human consumption with respect to the levels of saponin, hydrocyanic acid and oxalic acid.
Abstract The surface chemistry of isocyanic acid, HNCO, and its dissociation product, NCO, was studied on clean, O-dosed and Ar ion bombarded Au(111) surfaces. The techniques used are high resolution energy loss spectroscopy (HREELS) and temperature-programmed desorption (TPD). The structure of Ar ion etched surface is explored by scanning tunneling microscopy (STM). HNCO adsorbs molecularly on Au(111) surface at 100 K yielding strong losses at 1390, 2270 and 3230 cm − 1 . The weakly adsorbed HNCO desorbs in two peaks characterized by T p = 130 and 145 K. The dissociation of the chemisorbed HNCO occurs at 150 K to give NCO species characterized by a vibration at 2185 cm − 1 . The dissociation process is facilitated by the presence of preadsorbed O and by defect sites on Au(111) produced by Ar ion bombardment. In the latter case the loss feature of NCO appeared at 2130 cm − 1 . Isocyanate on Au(111) surface was found to be more stable than on the single crystal surfaces of Pt-group metals. Results are compared with those obtained on supported Au catalysts.
Nonionic surfactants, having polyoxyethylene chain in molecule, react with a ferrocyanic acid to form an addition compound. Schonfeldt presented a method of quantitative analysis of these nonionic surfactants using this reaction, then we call this method “Schonfeldt's Method.” Applying this method to polyethylene glycol stearates (MYS), polyoxyethylene nonylpenyl ethers (NP), and polyoxyethylene lauryl ethers (BL), it was assured the applicability of this method to the derivatives having several ethoxy-units lower than 50 moles in a molecule, as it is reported in Schonfeldt's paper.This method was examined to the extended numbers of ethoxy-unit up to 160 moles in a molecule, MYS-100 and MYS-160, and it was found that this method is well applicable for these derivatives.Mole ratio in these addition compounds, numbers of ethoxy-units per unit mole of ferrocyanic acid, was determined from these experiments, which was 6.8 for MYS series (from 25 to 160 ethoxy-units in molecule), 7.0 for NP series (from 21 to 50), and 6.3 for BL series (from 17 to 25). These ratios found in our experiments differed slightly from the ratio of about 6 which was reported by Schonfeldt.
Cassava flours are obtained from the roots of Manihot esculenta Crantz and daily fairly consumed by the Brazilian population considering it comes to hum food, and also inserted into food baskets, besides to present low cost and easy access, in addition to being plant easily cultivated by the population. However, the food obtained with cassava may contain hydrocyanic acid, in the form of cyanogenic glycoside when those meals are not cooked properly. The oral toxicity can range 30 - 210 mg/kg body, the average daily consumption per capita in larger rural areas than in urban areas for cassava flour 19.1 g against 4.7 g, respectively. Brazil’s North and Northeast have higher consumption of cassava flour, associated with family monthly monetary income, making this region more vulnerable to poisoning. The objective of this study was to quantify cyanogenic glycosides present in some types of Brazilian cassava foods by means of spectrophotometric technique (reading at a wavelength of 530 nm). For quantitative determination of cyanide content, linamarase hydrolysis was used. The amount of cyanide was determined, and results were: artisan toasted cassava flour: 15 mg/500g, sweet cassava starch: 32.5 mg/500g, artisan dried cassava flour: 37.5 mg/500g, “bijuzada” cassava flour: 60 mg/500g, industrialized, toasted cassava flour: 115 mg/500g, industrialized, raw cassava flour: 140 mg/500g, and wet cassava flour: 225 mg/500g. Considering the chronic ingestion of cyanide present in these foods, they can cause public health problems.
The present procedure adopted by Government Veterinary Officers in suspected cases of poisoning, namely submission to Onderstepoort of all specimens for the hydrocyanic acid and arsenic test, causes a serious delay in the diagnosis of the disease investigated. This delay could be avoided if field officers were supplied with easy and rapid methods of detecting these two poisons, which are the cause of enormous losses in stock. Such a procedure would be of great assistance to officers in making a correct diagnosis on the spot and would incidentally raise the prestige of field veterinarians in the eyes of the farming community. It is with these objects in view that this paper is written.
Approximately 150 cultivated and wild-growing mushrooms admitted on the German and Swiss markets were screened for their ability to produce hydrocyanic acid (HCN). Only 14 species, or about 9 %, tested consistently positive, and the amounts produced ranged from 7-268 mg/kg on fresh weight. The three most important cultivated species, i.e. the White Button mushroom, the Oyster - and the Padi Straw mushroom tested negative. Even mild processing, such as drying at temperatures over 50 °C, and culinary preparation, e.g. cooking and frying, completely destroyed the cyanogenic compounds. Consequently, HCN in edible mushrooms does not present any health hazard to the consumer. Cyanogenesis in higher fungi has some value as a taxonomic marker, since it is predominant in genera as Lepista and Pseudoclitocybe. Moreover, it is observed in several other genera belonging to the Tricholomataceae, and in the Aphyllophorales, notably in many Polyporaceae. The mechanism of HCN production is briefly discussed. Presence of HCN was confirmed for 17 fungi previously reported to be cyanogenic. For the first time, among the Tricholomataceae and Pleurotaceae, Collybia cf. pseudo-omphaloides, Lentinus adhaerens, Lentinula edodes, Lepista multiformis, L. glabella, L. glaucocana, L. irina, L. saeva, L. sordida, Lyophyllum semitale, L. transforme, Marasmiellus cf. enodis, M. cf. ramealis var. consimilis, Marasmius cohortalis var. arenicolor, M. perforans, M. trinitatis var. trinitatis, Pleurotus citrinopileatus, Pl. eryngii, Pseudoclitocybe expallens, Ps. coprophila, Tricholoma album, T. giganteum, and T ustale were identified as cyanide producing species. Among the Polypores, additional cyanogenic spp were Datronia mollis, Climacocystis borealis. Fomes fomentarius, Fomitopsis pinicola, Perenniporia fraxinea, Polyporus brumalis, Meripilus giganteus, and Lenzitus betulinus.
Experiments were made to determine if black scale found on citrus trees in a part of the San Gabriel Valley, California are more difficult to control than black scale found in other districts. Scale from the so-called resistant district and from districts outside this area were established on small potted seedling orange trees and fumigated with hydrocyanic acid simultaneously and under the same covering. It was concluded that the black scale from the so-called resistant district are a hardy strain more difficult to kill than those in other districts. This hardy strain may be called resistant but not immune. It was possible to kill them all by a high dosage of cyanide.
The composition of cassava roots and those of its derived food (attieke and semolina), were determined. The comparative study of the cassava roots composition with those of the semolina and attieke has shown that the technological applied treatments in the preparation of cassava meal and attieke influenced its composition. Thus, apart from the lipids content and energy values which slightly increased, all the components (protein, ash, cellulose, carbohydrates, starch and hydrocyanic acid) decreased in food derived from cassava.
Abstract Mossbauer spectra of anhydrous ferrocyanic acid, H4Fe(CN)6, and other alkali metal ferrocyanides have been studied. A definite quadrupole splitting (ΔEQ) is observed for H4Fe(CN)6 at 292 and 80°K. It is attributed to the presence of hydrogen bonding between the cyanide ligands as already suggested by the i.r., crystallographic and refractometric studies. The isomer shift (δ) decreases with increase in electronegativity indicating a corresponding decrease in 3d-electron density around the iron nucleus.
Lactating Gir cows (15; 6.6 to 10.5 kg milk/d, 30 to 45 days in milk and in 2nd/3rd lactation, 301–382 kg BW) were divided in to 3 equal groups and fed wheat straw replaced (w/w) with groundnut haulms @ 20 (GH20), 30 (GH30) and 40% (GH40) respectively, in addition to five kg green sorghum, concentrate mixture and groundnut cake. Groundnut haulms contained no hydrocyanic acid, 16 mg% nitrate and 41 ppm oxalate, respectively. The material was highly palatable and the animals relished the dry fodder. The DM intake, digestibility of nutrients and nitrogen, phosphorus and calcium retention were also statistically comparable in all the treatment groups. Daily milk yield and its composition were not effected by experimental diets. It was be concluded that wheat straw can be replaced with groundnut haulms up to 40% without any adverse effect on the production performance of lactating Gir cows.
Abstract Thirty-five isolates of actinomycetes were characterized for their antagonistic potential against phyto-pathogens of chickpea by dual-culture and metabolite production assays. The seven most promising isolates of Streptomyces were evaluated for their physiological and plant growth-promoting traits under in vitro and in vivo conditions. All the seven isolates exhibited good growth at temperatures between 20 and 40°C, pH between 7 and 11 and saline concentrations up to 4%; all the isolates were highly tolerant to fungicide Bavistin, three isolates were moderately tolerant to Captan and all the isolates were susceptible to Thiram, Benlate and Ridomil. All the seven isolates of Streptomyces produced siderophore, chitinase (except isolate CAI-133), cellulase, lipase, protease (except isolates BCA-689 and CAI-133), hydrocyanic acid (except isolate CAI-133), indole acetic acid and b-1,3-glucanase. The greenhouse studies revealed that the isolates of Streptomyces enhanced the plant growth by promoting root length and weight, nodule numbers, shoot weight, pod numbers and pod weight over the un-inoculated control. Under field conditions, the Streptomyces treated plots increased the nodule numbers, root weight, stover yield and grain yield over the un-inoculated control plots. In the rhizosphere, the Streptomyces were also found to enhance the total nitrogen, available phosphorus and organic carbon compared to un-inoculated control. The colonizing capability of the Streptomyces on the roots of chickpea was confirmed by scanning electron microscopic analysis. All the isolates were identified as Streptomyces species by 16S rDNA analysis; five of the seven isolates clustered in one clade, whereas the other two belonged to two different clades in phylogenetic analysis.
Heterocyclic rings are known to also form spontaneously (1). At 25°C and 1 atm pressure, isocyanic acid spontaneously cyclizes to form a mixture of cyanuric acid and cyamelide (2). Cyamelide is not very stable, but the partially aromatic cyanuric acid ring is highly resistant to abiotic hydrolysis or other ring opening reactions. Given that isocyanic acid is widespread in the universe, where it is commonly found in gas clouds, meteors, and comets (3), the highly stable cyanuric acid is plausibly an important sink of organic carbon, nitrogen, and oxygen in early planetary systems. Recent studies investigating RNA as an early genetic code found that cyanuric acid and triaminopyrimidine self-assemble in water to create aggregates resembling contemporary nucleic acid base pairs. Triaminopyrimidine forms nucleosides with ribose, and upon heating, the cyanuric acid mixture forms gene-length polymers that have been termed proto-RNA (4, 5). This polymerization suggests that cyanuric acid and related cyclic compounds might have played a role in the initiation of life on earth.
With respect to Cyanide levels, cassava varieties are broadly divided into two groups; the sweet cassava known for low cyanide content and the bitter cassava with its high characteristic content of Cyanogenic Glycosides (CGs) that is highly toxic when consumed [3] [4] [5] . Total cyanide in cassava products exists in form of CGs (linamarin and lotaustralin), cyanohydrin and free hydrocyanic acid (HCN) . Notwithstanding the CGS, according to FAO, FAO, 2001 [6] 172 million tons of cassava were produced world-wide in 2000 with Africa accounting for 45%, Asia 28% and Latin America and the Caribbean 19%. The five main producing countries are Nigeria, Brazil, Thailand, Congo (DRC) and Indonesia.
The surface chemistry of isocyanic acid, HNCO, and its dissociation product, NCO, was studied on clean, Odosed and Ar ion bombarded Au(111) surfaces. The techniques used are high resolution energy loss spectroscopy (HREELS) and temperature-programmed desorption (TPD). The structure of Ar ion etched surface is explored by scanning tunneling microscopy (STM). HNCO adsorbs molecularly on Au (111) . The dissociation process is facilitated by the presence of preadsorbed O and by defect sites on Au(111) produced by Ar ion bombardment. In the latter case the loss feature of NCO appeared at 2130 cm − 1 . Isocyanate on Au(111) surface was found to be more stable than on the single crystal surfaces of Pt-group metals. Results are compared with those obtained on supported Au catalysts.
Cassava flours are obtained from the roots of Manihot esculenta Crantz and daily fairly consumed by the Brazilian population considering it comes to hum food, and also inserted into food baskets, besides to present low cost and easy access, in addition to being plant easily cultivated by the population. However, the food obtained with cassava may contain hydrocyanic acid, in the form of cyanogenic glycoside when those meals are not cooked properly. The oral toxicity can range 30 -210 mg/kg body, the average daily consumption per capita in larger rural areas than in urban areas for cassava flour 19.1 g against 4.7 g, respectively. Brazil's North and Northeast have higher consumption of cassava flour, associated with family monthly monetary income, making this region more vulnerable to poisoning. The objective of this study was to quantify cyanogenic glycosides present in some types of Brazilian cassava foods by means of spectrophotometric technique (reading at a wavelength of 530 nm). For quantitative determination of cyanide content, linamarase hydrolysis was used. The amount of cyanide was determined, and results were: artisan toasted cassava flour: 15 mg/500g, sweet cassava starch: 32.5 mg/500g, artisan dried cassava flour: 37.5 mg/500g, "bijuzada" cassava flour: 60 mg/500g, industrialized, toasted cassava flour: 115 mg/500g, industrialized, raw cassava flour: 140 mg/500g, and wet cassava flour: 225 mg/500g. Considering the chronic ingestion of cyanide present in these foods, they can cause public health problems.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) is one of the four major grains, and is the next most important crop after rice in South Korea. It is now mainly used for mixed rice, barley tea for children, and various organic food materials [1] . Barley has many functional nutrients such as β-glucan, arabinoxylan, and hydrocyanic acid, which other general grains do not have, and has effects that aid in the prevention of adult diseases, such as heart disease (by lowering the blood cholesterols) and obesity (by inhibiting body fat accumulation) [2, 3] . Barleys can be generally classified into hulled barley, which is not easily peeled and is used as a feed, and naked barley, which is easily peeled and can be used for food [4] . Recently, as consumers' interest in health has increased, hulled barley has been actively developed correlations.
Objectives: The present study sought to investigate the role of palm oil, in conjunction with the duration of fermentation, on cyanide and aflatoxin (AFT) loads of processed cassava tubers (Garri). Materials and Methods: Matured cassava ( Manihot esculenta Crantz) tubers were harvested from three different locations (Akunna, Mkporo-Oji and Durungwu) in Njaba Local Government Area, Imo State, Nigeria. The cassava tubers were processed into Garri according to standard schemes with required modifications and measured for cyanide content using titrimetric methods. Samples of Garri for determination of AFT levels were stored for 30 days before the commencement of spectrophotometric analysis. Results: Cyanide content of peeled cassava tubers was within the range of 4.07 ± 0.16-5.20 ± 0.19 mg hydrocyanic acid (HCN) equivalent/100 g wet weight, whereas the various processed cassava tubers was within the range of 1.44 ± 0.34-3.95 ± 0.23 mg HCN equivalents/100 g. For the 48 h fermentation scheme, Garri treated with palm oil exhibited marginal reduction in cyanide contents by 0.96%, 3.52% and 3.69%, whereas 4 h fermentation scheme is in concurrence with palm oil treatment caused 4.42%, 7.47% and 5.15% elimination of cyanide contents compared with corresponding untreated Garri samples ( P > 0.05). Levels of AFT of the various Garri samples ranged between 0.26 ± 0.07 and 0.55 ± 0.04 ppb/100 g. There was no significant difference ( P > 0.05) in AFT levels among the various samples in relation to their corresponding sources. Conclusion: The present study showed that the 48 h fermentation scheme for Garri production caused significant ( P < 0.05) reduction, but did not obliterate the cyanide content of cassava tubers. Conversely, the 48 h fermentation scheme promoted the elevation of AFT levels, but was relatively reduced in Garri samples treated with palm oil.
Fusarium wilt is an economically important disease of cucumber caused by the fungus Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. cucumerinum (Foc). It causes severe losses in the yield and quality of cucumber and is extremely difficult to control conventionally using chemical fungicides. Biological control offers an eco-friendly alternative to chemical pesticide for sustainable plant disease management. In this context, biocontrol activity of rhizosphere soil bacteria was investigated against Foc in vitro. Thirty-five rhizobacterial isolates were screened for antagonistic activity in dual culture, and isolate BA5 showed the highest antagonistic activity (58.33% mycelial growth inhibition) against Foc. Maximum fungal biomass reduction (90.20%) was found in King’s B broth in shake flask culture. Cell-free culture filtrate and ethyl acetate crude extract inhibited mycelial growth of Foc by 56.66 and 25.0%, respectively. Further, the selected isolate produced siderophores, volatile compound(s), hydrocyanic acid, and protease. Siderophores and volatile compound(s) were involved in the isolate-induced antagonism. In addition, the isolate exhibited several plant growth-promoting traits, including phosphate and zinc solubilization, ammonia production, organic acid production, and in vitro biofilm formation. Based on the morphological, physiological, biochemical characteristics, and phylogeny analysis, the isolate BA5 was identified as Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and the 16S rDNA sequence was submitted in the NCBI GenBank under the strain name RKA5. Because of the novel antifungal and plant growth promotion potentials, the strain can be used as a promising biocontrol agent against the fungal pathogen Foc.
A method of C-terminal peptide sequencing. The peptide is reacted with an activated support derivatized with a mixed anhydride of isothiocyanic acid and carboxylic or carbonic acid, under basic conditions. The peptidyl thiohydantoin which forms is separated from the solid support and further reacted with a cleaving agent carried on a second solid support, to release a free C-terminal amino acyl thiohydantoin from the peptide. The free thiohydantoin is analyzed to determine the C-terminal peptide residue. The residual peptide can be recycled through the supports for successive C-terminal residue determinations.
To the Editor: —Attention has recently been drawn (Brooks, Matilda M.: Am. J. Physiol . 102 :145 [Oct.] 1932. Geiger, J. C.:The Journal, Dec. 3, 1932, p. 1944. Hanzlik, P. J., ibid., February 4, p. 357. Eddy, N. B.: J. Pharmacol. & Exper. Therap . 41 :449 [April] 1931. Hug, Enrique: Compt. rend. Soc. de biol . 111 :519, 1932) to the earlier observation (Sahlin, B.: Skandinav. Arch. f. Physiol . 47 :284, 1925) that the injection of methylene blue antagonizes the toxicity of hydrocyanic acid administered to animals and man. The explanation of this protective action of the dye is of interest from several points of view: its bearing on the mechanism of tissue respiration, the possibility that other more effective antidotal agents may be found, and the limit to which protection against hydrocyanic acid poisoning may be expected from the dye and similarly acting substances. The purpose of this communication is
The invention discloses a hermatypic coral total RNA extraction method. The extraction method comprises the following steps: washing the surface of a hermatypic coral sample, which is freshly collected and is preserved at an ultralow temperature, by sterile seawater to remove other organisms adhered on the surface of the sample, then grinding the sample in liquid nitrogen, cracking the sample by an isothiocyanic acid cracking liquid so as to release the free hermatypic coral RNA to the isothiocyanic acid cracking liquid, and then extracting the hermatypic coral total RNA; wherein the isothiocyanic acid cracking liquid contains the following components: 38 vol.% of acidic saturated phenol, 0.8M of guanidinium thiocyanate, 0.4M of ammonium thiocyanate, 0.1M of sodium acetate, 5 vol.% of glycerin, and the balance being RNase-free water. The provided method can well extract hermatypic coral total RNA, maximally reduces the degradation of hermatypic coral total RNA, and can be applied to various molecular biological researches such as hermatypic coral gene clone, differential display analysis, molecular hybridization, and the like.
Amination of dimethylbicyclolactam 1 gives dimethyl bicyclolactam lactone 2, which transfers to cyanopyrolidones 3a and 3b through substitutive ring opening reactions by action of hydrocyanic acid and esterification with diazomethane. Sulfidizations of 3a and 3b give the end products, cyanopyrrolidinylthiones 4a and 4b, with total yield of ca . 59%. The trans and cis isomeric products were isolated by HPLC in mass fraction of 64 5% and 34 0%, respectively. Their structures were confirmed by elemental analysis, UV Vis, IR, 1 H NMR, 13 C NMR and MS spectra.
Abstract Polyurethanes are widely used in the formulation of car paints. During thermal degradation, such polymeric systems can generate a wide range of combustion products, including isocyanates. Their relative yield depends greatly on the specific combustion conditions selected (e.g. temperature, ventilation, fuel load) and sampling condition chosen (non-aged versus aged atmospheres). The extent that the analytes found by utilizing specific laboratory-scale conditions can potentially induce adverse health effects in humans is contingent upon further variables; their discussion is beyond the scope of this investigation. Thus, in order to evaluate potential hazards for workers potentially exposed to combustion products in car repair shops and to develop proper sampling strategies, it is important to understand the principal mechanisms involved in thermal degradation, with particular attention being paid to the isocyanate profile following combustion of these complex systems. A DIN 53436 laboratory scale furnace was used to thermally degrade the polymer under inert and oxidative atmospheres. Isocyanates in the gaseous effluent were analyzed using impinger flasks containing 1-(2-methoxyphenyl)piperazine (MOPIP) as derivatizing reagent. The derivatives were analyzed using high performance liquid chromatography hyphenated with tandem mass spectrometry (HPLC/MS/MS). During these experiments, isocyanic acid, aliphatic isocyanates, alkenyl isocyanates and many structural isomers of these compounds were analyzed.
Treatment of o-mercaptoacetophenone oxime with polyphosphoric acid gives a mixture of 2-methylbenzothiazole, resulting from Beckmann rearrangement of the oxime prior to cyclisation, and 3-methyl-1,2-benzisothiazole. The former product always predominates, but the proportion depends upon the temperature of the cyclisation. Similar treatment of 4′-chloro-, 5′-chloro-, and 5′-nitro-2′-mercaptoacetophenone oxime gives mainly the substituted benzothiazole in each case. Italian workers had reported previously that the cyclisation of o-mercaptoacetophenone oxime and related compounds gave entirely the 3-methyl-1,2-benzisothiazole derivative. It seems probable that their starting material, which they believed to be o-mercaptoacetophenone oxime, was 2-imino-5-methyl-3,1,4-benzoxathiazepine (14). This compound is decomposed to 3-methyl-1,2-benzisothiazole and cyanic acid by heating either in polyphosphoric acid or in a suitable inert solvent.
Abstract By analogy with hydrogen halides and hydrogen sulfide it is reasonable to expect thiocyanic acid to react with olefins, and it has been reported by Kharasch, May, and Mayo that it will add to isobutylene at room temperature to give a mixture of tert.-butyl thiocyanate and isothiocyanate. Under similar conditions in the present work, the only product that was obtained from cyclohexene and thiocyanic acid was a small quantity of an amorphous powder, probably mainly a perthiocyanic acid, formed by elimination of hydrogen cyanide from three molecules of thiocyanic acid. This tendency towards decomposition of the reagent prevented the use of elevated temperatures, and when methyl thiocyanate (a potential source of SCN and Me radicals by thermal decomposition) was heated at 170° with 1-methylcyclohexene and a little benzoyl peroxide (as catalyst), it underwent but slight reaction, the drop or two of product giving analytical values which suggested that it might be an impure adduct. Attempts to catalyze...
2-Imino-1,3-oxathiolane, in the free state, evolves cyanic acid spontaneously and gives rise to ethylene sulphide. This rearrangement is characteristic of all substituted 2-imino-1,3-oxathiolanes. It has now been found that rearrangement of the next higher homologue, 2-imino-1,3-oxathiane, does not give the anticipated trimethylene sulphide but only tris-3-mercaptopropyl cyanurate. The mechanism of this rearrangement is discussed.
Fusarium wilt is an economically important disease of cucumber caused by the fungus Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. cucumerinum (Foc). It causes severe losses in the yield and quality of cucumber and is extremely difficult to control conventionally using chemical fungicides. Biological control offers an eco-friendly alternative to chemical pesticide for sustainable plant disease management. In this context, biocontrol activity of rhizosphere soil bacteria was investigated against Foc in vitro. Thirty-five rhizobacterial isolates were screened for antagonistic activity in dual culture, and isolate BA5 showed the highest antagonistic activity (58.33% mycelial growth inhibition) against Foc. Maximum fungal biomass reduction (90.20%) was found in King's B broth in shake flask culture. Cell-free culture filtrate and ethyl acetate crude extract inhibited mycelial growth of Foc by 56.66 and 25.0%, respectively. Further, the selected isolate produced siderophores, volatile compound(s), hydrocyanic acid, and protease. Siderophores and volatile compound(s) were involved in the isolate-induced antagonism. In addition, the isolate exhibited several plant growth-promoting traits, including phosphate and zinc solubilization, ammonia production, organic acid production, and in vitro biofilm formation. Based on the morphological, physiological, biochemical characteristics, and phylogeny analysis, the isolate BA5 was identified as Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and the 16S rDNA sequence was submitted in the NCBI GenBank under the strain name RKA5. Because of the novel antifungal and plant growth promotion potentials, the strain can be used as a promising biocontrol agent against the fungal pathogen Foc.
In order to ally anti-bacterial activity with separation performance, functionalization of nanofibers post-electrospinning with biocide agents, such as bronopol, thiocyanic acid, or selected metal nanoparticles has been investigated [9] [10] [11] [12] [13] [14] . However, the use of solvents during functionalization and the potential biocide agent leaching are limitations preventing an industrial-scale application. The inclusion of the biocide agent within the nanofibers, hence in the electrospinning precursor has thus been considered as an alternative to tackle the potential agent leaching issue. Indeed, the coordination of metal atoms present under ionic form with polymer chains imposes a higher reaction energy required to free the metal ions, in comparison with materials where solid metal biocides are deposited or grown at the nanofiber surface as previously reported, thus rate-limiting potential leaching [15] . Among biocides, metal nanoparticles such as silver or copper were among those showing the highest bactericidal potential [9, 10, 14, [16] [17] [18] . However, the inclusion of a metal salt in an electrospinning precursor will have an impact on the local charge reorganization and conductivity changes within the electrospun jet upon its stretching and during solvent evaporation [19] [20] [21] . Indeed, a free population of metal ions within the electrospinning precursor will thus increase the precursor conductivity and could incur electrospinning instabilities, depending on the precursor loading, either by an inconstant drawing of solution at the needle tip or upon local charge reorganization when the jet solidifies [19, 22] . An immobilization of the metal ion within the precursor will thus downgrade the precursor conductivity, thus allowing for a higher loading in metal ions, while still ensuring a relatively undisturbed electrospinning [19, 22] . A way to stabilize the metal center is to synthetize a sol-gel of crosslinked polymer chains with metal ions, which will also limit its ability to leach out during operation [23] .
Raw and boiled Delonix regia seeds were analyzed for organic matter, ash, crude protein, crude carbohydrate, crude fibre, crude lipid, gross energy anti-nutrients and amino acids using standard procedures and methods. The contents of crude protein (487.19g kg -1 ) and lipid (65.0g kg -1 ) were significantly (p -1 ) significantly (p -1 ), hydrocyanic acid (587.1mg kg -1 ) total oxalate (9.6mg kg -1 ), phytic acid (98.0mg kg -1 ) and HCN (92.4mg kg -1 ) significantly (p Delonix regia seeds contain high antinutrients and may be unsuitable as feed ingredient but boiling reduces the anti-nutritive substances in the raw seeds. Keywords : anti-nutrients, boiling, Delonix regia seeds, proximate content, amino acids Nigerian Food Journal Vol. 23 2005: 128-132
The reaction of isocyanic acid with ethylene glycol associates was studied by the B3LYP/6–311++G(df,p) quantum chemical method. The reaction mechanism includes formation of pre- and post-reaction complexes and cyclic asymmetric late transition states. The energy barrier decreases with increase in the degree of association of ethylene glycol.
The levels of hydrocyanic acid (HCN) in the dried leaves of 38 browse species comprising shrubs, herbs, grasses and trees found in the tropics were determined. They ranged from 6·04 to 65·1 mg kg−1; trace to 39·9 mg kg−1 and trace to 73·6 mg kg−1 respectively in the trees, shrubs and herbs'/grass leaves. The highest HCN values were recorded for the trees and herbs' leaves. Feeding experiments were conducted to investigate the influence of the HCN contents of Manihot utilissima, Spondias mombin and Gliricidia sepium leaves on the performance of goats. The HCN intake was between 0·94 ± 0·21 and 9·10 ± 0·64 mg day−1 wkg−0·734 while the weights lost ranged from 30 to 130 g day−1 wkg−0·734 in the sole browse leaves and Manihot sp. peels treatments. N balance and N digestibilities were also depressed by HCN. Dry matter and energy intakes were significantly (p < 0·001) influenced by HCN intake while urinary-N was negatively correlated with HCN intake (p < 0·05).
Abstract Quantum chemical calculations using the B3LYP/6-311++G(d,p) method were performed to determine the affinity of the [Ca(H 2 O) 5 ] 2+ cation for several monofunctional ligands. Four sets of ligands were studied: with oxygen binding atom (phosphoryl, amide, carboxylic acid, ketone, aldehyde, ether, alcohol, enol), nitrogen (imine, thiocyanic acid, nitrile, amine and ammonia), sulfur (thiocarbonyl, thioether and thioalcohol) and phosphorous (phosphine) binding atom. Compounds that bind via a double bonded oxygen atom have the strongest metal–ligand interaction, followed by compounds binding via nitrogen, singly bonded oxygen atom, sulfur and phosphine. The ligand with the strongest interaction, phosphine oxide, has an ionic resonance form with a negative charge on the binding oxygen atom that highly contributes to the hybrid geometry, what favors the interaction. The Energy Decomposition Analysis (EDA) of the interaction energy between the [Ca(H 2 O) 5 ] 2+ cation and the ligand shows that the electrostatic term is the major component of the interaction and represents at least 43.66% of the total interaction energy. The covalent component represents at least 28.09% of the total interaction energy. Along the set of compounds studied, the electrostatic component varies more than twice the covalent term. The repulsive and the dispersion components are roughly constant in all complexes.
In previous studies, we have suggested that the selective inhibitory effect of sodium cyanate (NaOCN) on hepatoma metabolism may be due to the lower pH observed in tumors relative to normal tissues. Lower pH might enhance the action of NaOCN by increasing the formation of isocyanic acid and carbamoylation of sulfhydryl groups. In the present work, studies were conducted on the effect of pH on the carbamoylation of sulfhydryl groups. The data indicated that carbamoylation of the sulfhydryl group of glutathione by NaOCN was enhanced by decreasing the pH from 7.4 to 6.6. A less pH-dependent response was observed with organic isocyanates. However, all reactions were reversible after the pH was increased by the addition of base. Kinetic studies showed that the rate of the reaction is very rapid, a maximal effect occurring within the first 10 min. Dose-dependent modifications of cellular glutathione by NaOCN and organic isocyanates were observed in human HT29 colon tumor cells, rat HTC hepatoma cells, and rat hepatocytes. The rate of carbamoylation of the glutathione sulfhydryl group in cells was similar to that of pure glutathione (GSH). The effect of buthionine sulfoxamine on GSH levels in cells was at least as great as that of sodium cyanate, but only the latter showed inhibitory effects on macromolecular synthesis; these were very rapid, pH-dependent, and reversible in tumor cells. Our results suggest that cellular sulfhydryl group(s) other than that of GSH might be involved in the effect of NaOCN on macromolecular synthesis.
Abstract The results of an experimental investigation of 1 keV electron irradiation of ices (deposited at 30 K) of (i) pure methanol and (ii) of a 1:1 mixture of NH 3 :CH 3 OH are reported. Molecular products formed within the ice were detected and monitored using FTIR spectroscopy. The products observed were methyl formate (H 3 COHCO), methane (CH 4 ), hydroxymethyl (CH 2 OH), formamide (HCONH 2 ), formic acid (HCOOH), formaldehyde (H 2 CO), formyl radical (HCO), cyanate ion (OCN − ), isocyanic acid (HNCO), carbon monoxide (CO) and carbon dioxide (CO 2 ). The consequences of these results for prebiotic chemistry in the interstellar medium and star forming regions are discussed.
The phytochemical and nutrient composition of the pulverized dried root of Cissus quadrangularis (an edible Nigerian vegetable) were determined. Phytochemical tests on the plant revealed the presence of alkaloids, saponins, tannins, flavonoids, glycosides with the absence of cyanogenic glycosides. Proximate analysis showed II 0.01% moisture content, 3.33 0.58% fat, 7.50 0.17% crude protein, 68.89 1.16% carbohydrate, 3.33 0.10% ash, 5.97 0.1% fibre, and 335.50 3.43 kcal/100g energy content. ::: The root powder also constituted a rich source of mineral elements (mg/100g dry matter): Potassium 67.5, calcium 39.5, zinc 3.0, sodium 22.5, Iron 7.5, lead 3.5, cadmium 0.25, copper 0.5, magnesium 1.15, chromium 0, cobalt 0. Analysis of the toxicants also revealed that the oxalate, tannin, phytate, saponin contents were 135, 0.3, 20, 0.16 mg/100g dry matter, while hydrocyanic acid was not detected. The results are discussed in terms of the nutritive value as well as the public health implication of having this vegetable as part of the diet. ::: ::: Key words: Cissus quadrangularis, nutritional evaluation. ::: Bio-Research Vol.1(1) 2003: 63-68
Safe disposal of hazardous waste is becoming generally more important as industrial production increases. The pyrolysis characteristics and gas evolution of mixtures of several wastes are discussed in this paper. Experiments are described for various heating rates, particle sizes and final temperatures using thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) and a Fourier transform infrared spectrometer. The results indicate that there are three stages in the pyrolysis process. The composition of evolved gas includes carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, ammonia, methane, nitric oxide, hydrocyanic acid and a number of other light alkanes. Gas evolution temperatures and gas generation rates were significantly influenced by the factors identified.
Polycyanurates (poly(2,4,6-trisaroxy-1,3,5-triazines)) are built up through a step-growth polycyclotrimerization of difunctional aromatic cyanic acid esters and form an ideally trifunctional randomly branched network, where all initial cyanato groups are linked with the triazine branching units at full conversion. Results on modifications of the high network density of pure polycyanurates are reported for three types of comonomers: monofunctional cyanic acid esters, difunctional phenols and difunctional aromatic glycidyl ethers. Using the coreaction of mono- and difunctional aromatic cyanic acid esters, additional chain segments, dangling ends and low molecular weight compounds are built, the fractions of which are dependent on the initial admixture of the monofunctional compound and its relative reactivity. Therefore, the critical conversion at the gel point is shifted to higher values and the network density at full conversion decreases. The abstraction of phenols from intermediately formed iminocarbonic ester structures is utilized for the modification of the polycyanurate network through the coreaction of difunctional aromatic cyanic acid esters with phenols. It was found that the critical conversion and the network structure are dependent on all the initial amount of phenols, their reactivity and functionality. The modification with the help of glycidyl ethers is characterized by an insertion of the oxirane ring into the cyanurate and the succeeding reactions into isocyanurates and oxazolidinones. Depending on the initial mixture and the reaction conditions, a large spectrum of chemical and topological network structures can be obtained, what is demonstrated by both experimental and theoretical investigations.
Hydrocyanic acid, a common industrial pollutant, caused severe damage to developing embryos of Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) when newly fertilized eggs were continually exposed to sublethal concentrations of the poison (0.01–0.10 mg/L HCN) up to the end of the sac-fry stage. Each test group was held in small flow-through basins with the toxicant metered through the entire experimental period. At 0.08 and 0.10 mg/L, cyanide delayed hatching by 6–9 days but all concentrations reduced hatching success by about 15–40%. During incubation conversion of yolk into body tissues was reduced at all concentrations above 0.01 mg/L. The most striking effect of cyanide, however, was a high incidence of abnormalities ranging from about 6% at 0.01 mg/L to about 19% at 0.10 mg/L. During incubation cyanide had reduced development, but after hatching survival was not affected and growth of cyanide-exposed sac fry was either equal to or faster than that of the controls as a result of higher yolk conversion efficiency. The tot...
A series of N-homocyclylcarbamoyl derivatives of maleamic acid and maleimide was prepared for hypocholesteremic and sulfhydryl-binding tests. The synthetic reactions involved in the controlled aminolysis of maleic anhydride with appropriate mono-substituted ureas and the resulting carbamoylmaleamic acids were then thermally dehydrated to the corresponding carbamoylmaleimides. The monosubstituted ureas required in this synthesis were obtained by the action of amines on isocyanic acid produced in situ from nitrourea on heating in aqueous alcoholic solution.
The extraction of water from a 1 mol dm−3 sodium perchlorate solution with trioctylphosphine oxide (TOPO) in four organic solvents and the co-extraction of water with hydrochloric, hydrobromic, hydroiodic, perchloric, nitric, and thiocyanic acids from 1 mol dm−3 of the acid solution by TOPO in hexane have been studied at 25 °C. The extraction constants of water in the absence of any of the acids, K′H2O=[TOPO·H2O]org[TOPO]org−1, were determined to be 100.40, 100.00, 10−0.12, and 10−0.36 in benzene, hexane, carbon tetrachloride, and chloroform respectively. A discrepancy from the 1: 1 molar ratio of TOPO and water in the extract was observed in the higher-TOPO-concentration region in the hexane system. The co-extraction of water with the acids disolvated by TOPO was greater in the order of HCl\simeqHBr>HI>HClO4, and it was much poorer with the monosolvated acids, nitric and thiocyanic acid. The equilibria for these co-extractions of water with the acids are complicated.
The possibility of a positive synergism among flue gas recirculation, staged combustion and selective non-catalytic reduction technologies to achieve N-containing emission reductions has been investigated by simulating a 320 MW industrial-scale furnace boiler. A detailed chemical kinetic scheme coupled with a simplified fluid dynamic of the system has allowed us to compare the effectiveness of ammonia and isocyanic acid in removing N-containing pollutant emitted (NPE) with hot exhausts. By keeping the same flue gas composition for both cases, the effect of temperature and the impact of different amounts of NH3 and HNCO injected in the final combustion stage has been analysed. Ammonia was the most effective reducing agent for the particular conditions examined. Due to its high reactivity, the maximum effectiveness of the NH3-promoted process occurs at 940 K and an NH3 molar ratio of about 1.25. NH2 dominates the process mainly following two paths: N2 can be produced from direct interaction between NH2 and ...
Carbamylation is a general process involved in protein molecular ageing due to the nonenzymatic binding of isocyanic acid, mainly generated by urea dissociation, to free amino groups. In vitro experiments and clinical studies have suggested the potential involvement of carbamylated proteins (CPs) in chronic kidney disease (CKD) complications like atherosclerosis, but their metabolic fate in vivo is still unknown. To address this issue, we evaluated protein carbamylation in the plasma and tissues of control and 75% nephrectomised C57BL/6J mice by LC-MS/MS assay of homocitrulline, the major carbamylation-derived product (CDP). A basal level of carbamylation was evidenced under all conditions, showing that carbamylation is a physiological process of protein modification in vivo. CP plasma concentrations increased in nephrectomized vs. control mice over the 20 weeks of the experiment (e.g. 335±43 vs. 167±19 μmol homocitrulline/mol lysine (p<0.001) 20 weeks after nephrectomy). Simultaneously, CP content increased roughly by two-fold in all tissues throughout the experiment. The progressive accumulation of CPs was specifically noted in long-lived extracellular matrix proteins, especially collagen (e.g. 1264±123 vs. 726±99 μmol homocitrulline/mol lysine (p<0.01) in the skin of nephrectomized vs. control mice after 20 weeks of evolution). These results show that chronic increase of urea, as seen in CKD, increases the carbamylation rate of plasma and tissue proteins. These results may be considered in the perspective of the deleterious effects of CPs demonstrated in vitro and of the correlation evidenced recently between plasma CPs and cardiovascular risk or mortality in CKD patients.
BACKGROUND ::: Carbamylation of proteins by isocyanic acid, the reactive form of cyanate derived from urea, is increased in uraemia and may contribute to uraemic toxicity. Kinetics of carbamylation that may reflect uraemic toxicity is not clearly defined in acute renal failure (ARF). ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Twenty-eight patients with ARF and 13 with chronic renal failure (CRF) were included in the study in order to determine changes in carbamylated haemoglobin concentration (CarHb) in ARF. The usefulness of this parameter for differentiating ARF from CRF was also investigated. CarHb was measured by high-performance liquid chromatography after acid hydrolysis. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Mean CarHb level (expressed as microg carbamyl valine per gram (CV/g) Hb) was significantly higher in ARF (54.3+/-5.2) than in normal subjects (31.6+/-1.3). On admission, CarHb level was correlated with duration of ARF prior to hospitalization in the intensive care unit (r(2)=0.723, P<0.001). CarHb was significantly higher at recovery in the subgroup of patients requiring haemodialysis than in the subgroup not requiring haemodialysis (82. 4+/-11.3 vs 46.7+/-5.2, P<0.01). Similarly dialysis patients lost more weight (8.6+/-1.4 vs 2.7+/-0.5 kg, P<0.005) and had higher averaged blood urea levels in the 20 days prior to recovery (17. 6+/-1.9 vs 11.3+/-1.8 mol/l, P<0.05). After recovery, CarHb level decreased at a rate of 0.219 microg CV/g Hb per day in patients with reversible renal insufficiency. CarHb concentration was higher in patients with CRF. A cut-off CarHb value of 100 microg CV/g Hb had a sensitivity of 94% and a positive predictive value of 94% for differentiating ARF from CRF. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: Kinetics of CarHb showed a near normal red blood cell life span in ARF. Changes in CarHb enabled, with a good sensitivity, the distinction to be made between patients who recovered from ARF and those with sustained renal impairment, whether due to prior CRF or resulting from parenchymal sequelae. Measurement of CarHb is valuable at clinical presentation of ARF in patients with an unknown medical history of renal disease.
Abstract In this study, the thermal decomposition of 1,3,5-tris-(2,3-dibromopropyl)-1,3,5-triazine-2,4,6-trione (TDBP-TAZTO) and 2,4,6-tris-(2,4,6-tribromo-phenoxy)-1,3,5-triazine (TTBP-TAZ) were investigated for the first time by thermogravimetric analysis. Both compounds were thermal degraded between 225 and 350 °C (TDBP-TAZTO) as well as 300 and 400 °C (TTBP-TAZ). As a result, mass loss (%) of 98.5% for TTBP-TAZ and 95.4% for TDBP-TAZTO at 600 °C under N 2 were observed. The major pyrolytic degradation products of TTBP-TAZ were formed in a single step and identified by FTIR analysis as 2,4,6-tribromophenol and further bromine-substituted aromatic compounds. In comparison, TDBP-TAZTO was pyrolytic degraded in two steps, whereby on the first step the release of hydrogen bromide and 1,3,5-triallyl-1,3,5-triazine-2,4,6-trione could be detected. In the second minor step, isocyanic acid could be additionally identified. Subsequently, the obtained products of the TGA-FTIR measurements were used for a targeted search for mass fragments in mass spectrometry measurements. For TTBP-TAZ, only the degradation product 1,3,5-tribromobenzene could be detected by MS/MS analyzes. No comparable thermal degradation products, except hydrogen bromide, were observed in the MS/MS spectra of TDBP-TAZTO. Therefore, the search of further mass fragments was not possible compared to the findings of the TGA-FTIR measurements.
Our society meets in Berlin for the second time now since its foundation 65 years ago. To be precise it is our 47th conference—one was counted even so it was cancelled (Figs. 1 and 2). Although none of these figures represents an anniversary, we should talk about history since this is the first time we meet as ‘‘German Society for Forensic Medicine’’. In addition, Berlin is—besides Vienna—the city in the German spoken area which has achieved the most regarding the development of forensic medicine as a teaching and research subject. Sturzenbecher’s [1] treatise shows the development of the subject in Berlin. Thus, we can put the main emphasis on our societies history itself. It would be wrong to start with the first conference of the old society for forensic medicine in 1905 which was held in Meran on the occasion of the annual conference of the Society of German Naturalists and Physicians (Gesellschaft Deutscher Naturforscher und Arzte). Fritz Strassmann [2] (Berlin) stood godfather to it. The opening speeches do not give detailed information about the circumstances which led our ancestors to build the society but already at the 1886 naturalist meeting in Berlin a section called ‘‘Forensic Medicine’’ took place. Thus, to get more information about our societies history it is necessary to first take a look at the brilliant history of the Society of German Naturalists and Physicians. This is not very difficult since there are detailed reports and summaries of the conferences [3,4]. It also seems to be appropriate to deal with the relationship between forensic medicine and neighbor disciplines. Lorenz Oken, professor of medicine in Jena, had already advertised a touring conference of German naturalists like that in Switzerland in his encyclopedic magazine ‘‘ISIS’’ in 1819 [5]. He described the purpose of this conference as following: ‘‘Recovery from work of German naturalists and physicians, personal meeting, oral scientific exchange and finally stimulation of future brain-work as well as of mental life in general.’’ As a pupil of Schelling, Oken was a supporter of genetic natural philosophy, yearning for freedom and unity. The Germans could not be united, but he was successful in developing a unity of German naturalists. Even if it had only been an announcement due to a misunderstanding a number of naturalists came to Leipzig in 1821 which was of course quite disappointing since they had to travel by mail-coach. The foundation meeting took place in Leipzig in 1822 and was attended by 13 members and about 40 guests [6]. The seventh meeting was held in Berlin in 1828; Alexander von Humboldt was its first secretary. He used his energy and skill to achieve full acknowledgement of natural sciences. Thanks to his influence there were not only general public meetings but also detailed lectures on single disciplines because in his opinion frank discussions were only possible in smaller circles. Seven sections were constituted and their meetings were held before and after the main meetings. The so called ‘‘Staatsarzneikunde’’ which comprised forensic medicine as well as public health care at that time was not among these sections; nevertheless almost all physicians from Berlin who worked in this field entered their names on the list of participants, among them Knape, Wagner and 32 years old Casper (Fig. 1). Anyhow, in the meeting report of section VII (practical-medical section) on a lecture by Goepert (Breslau) ‘‘about the difference between vegetal and animal hydrocyanic acid’’ a remark was added: important in medical–forensic respect [7]. Even 4 years later only the signature of Bernt can be found in the list of participants but no further remarks Forensic Science International 144 (2004) 95–108
The present invention discloses a process for preparing adiponitrile, which comprises: a first hydrocyanic butadiene hydrocyanation occurs at the first catalyst so as to obtain a first mixture; a mixture of a first a first separation of the components, so as to obtain a second mixture, a first residual hydrocyanic acid and residual butadiene; cocatalyst added to the second mixture, and into the second hydrocyanic acid, to obtain hexyl comprising third mixture of dinitrile; third mixture to a second separation so as to obtain adiponitrile remaining 3-pentenenitrile, the second residual hydrocyanic acid, the catalyst and co-catalyst after the reaction of the reaction, wherein, the catalyst is a monodentate phosphine ligand, a bidentate phosphine ligand and zero-valent nickel complex, the cocatalyst is a Lewis acid. Using this process for preparing adiponitrile, less by-products, without the need for 2M3BN isomerization reaction, simple process, and low cost, high yield, product quality, economy and environmental protection.
Since hydrocyanic acid is both a very weak and an easily volatile acid, it would seem that one ought to be able to separate the cyanides from admixture with these other substances by making the solution containing them slightly acid and distilling off the hydrocyanic acid. Any of the well-known tests could then be applied to the distillate. There is this difficulty, however, that ferro, and ferricyanides and sulfocyanates will all yield hydrocyanic acid when an acid solution containing them is distilled at the boiling temperature. Hilger and Tamba state that cyanides may be detected in the presence of ferroand ferricyanides by acidulating with tartaric acid and passing a current of carbon dioxid through the solution, taking care not to warm the solution above sixty degrees. On account of the restricted conditions this method is not adapted to use by students. The cyanides are salts of very weak acid, while the ferroand ferricyanides and sulfocyanates are salts of strong acids; as the result of this, the cyanides are, upon going into solution in water, largely hydrolytically split up with the formation of much free hydrocyanic acid, while the hydroferrocyanic acid, etc., are not formed. As a result of this, hydrocyanic acid will distil from a solution of potassium cyanide although the latter is highly alkaline. The hydrolysis of all salts of weak acids is greater if there is present at the same time in the solution the cations of some weak base; hence the hydrocyanic acid will distil much more readily from the potassium cyanide solution if there be added to the latter some ammonium chlorid.
The North Eastern Himalayan (NEH) region of India has a great diversity of bamboo resource and the tribal communities of the region use young succulent shoots of various bamboo species as vegetable, pickles, salad, etc., from May to September every year. Out of 25 edible bamboo species identified for the region, 11 species, i.e., Bambusa balcooa Roxb., B. nutans Wall. ex Munro, B. tulda Roxb., Dendrocalamus giganteus Munro in Trans., D. hamiltonii Nees et. Arn, D. hookerii Munro in Trans., D. longispathus Kurz, D. sikkimensis Gamble, Melocanna baccifera (Roxb.) Kurz, Phyllostachys bambusoides Sieb. and Zucc. and Teinostachyum wightii Beddome have been found as potential species, which are sold in the markets by primary or secondary vendors in fresh, fermented, boiled or roasted form. Besides their occurrence in forests, these edible species are also cultivated in home gardens. This paper reports the nutritional values on some major edible bamboo species of the region. For different species, food energy ranged from 14.6 to 16.9 MJ/kg and ash content from 2.1 to 3.7%. For different species, crude fibre content ranged between 23.1 and 35.5%, fat between 0.6 and 1.0%, and carbohydrate between 4.5 and 5.2%. Among various species, the protein content was determined to be high in D. hamiltonii, P. bambusoides, T. wightii and B. balcooa. Young edible bamboo shoots were also found rich in macronutrients, particularly in calcium with a range of 1.2–1.9 g/100 g. The potassium content ranged from 0.02 to 0.03 g/100 g, phosphorus from 0.5 to 1.0 g/100 g and magnesium from 0.04 to 0.05 g/100 g. Edible shoots were also rich in vitamins. Among species, the ascorbic acid ranged from 3.0 to 12.9 mg/100 g, tryptophan from 0.4 to 1.7 g/16 g N and methionine from 0.3 to 0.8 g/16 g N. Hydrocyanic acid (HCN) content was also available in edible shoots; however, the range varied from 0.01 to 0.02%. The study showed that Dendrocalamus spp, M. baccifera and P. bambusoides need to be included in various afforestation programmes in the region where shifting cultivation has already caused serious environmental degradation. It will serve the twin purpose of restoration of degraded lands and production of edible shoots for consumption of various ethnic groups of the region.
Abstract The new complex of Bi(SCN)3 with the isoperthiocyanic acid : [Bi(C2H2N2S3)(SCN)3] (1) has been obtained during the attempted recrystallization of Dy[Bi(SCN)6] · 6H2O from HClO4. Compound (1) and CsK[Bi(SCN)6] (2) have been investigated by X-ray crystallography. The unusual shape of deformed pentagonal pyramidal coordination of BiIII in (1) and typical octahedral coordination in (2) have been observed. The analysis of Bi-S and Bi-N bond lengths in homo and hetero-ligand thiocyanato BiIII complexes of different coordination numbers is made on the basis of the bond's valences, computed from our literature and experimental data. The role of the BiIII lone electron pair on the shape of BiIII coordination polyhedra is considered. Copyright © 1996 Elsevier Science Ltd
Objective To study the effect of 17βestradial and its selectiveα-protagonist(PPT) andβ-protagonist(DPN) on proliferation and migration of endothelial progenitor cells(EPC).Methods EPC,cultured with estradial,PPT and DPN at different concentrations(l×10～(-10) mol/L,1×10～(-9) mol/L,1×10～(-8) mol/L,1×10～(-7) mol/L),were divided into estradial group,PPT group,DPN group, and identified with thiocyanic acid immunofluorescimlabelled lectin-1 staining,Dil-labelled acetylated LDL double staining and CD133 immunofluorescence staining.Proliferation of EPC was analyzed, EPC were calculted and cell cycle of EPC was detected by flow cytometry,migration of EPC was observed with the transwell technique.Results The light absorption value,the proportion of EPC in different cell cycles,and the number of migrated EPC were significantly higher in estradial group and PPT group than in control group and DPN group(P0.05).Conclusion Eestradial promotes the proliferation and migration of EPC viaα-receptor subtypes.
In several publications appearing elsewhere the author has described his investigations concerning the pharmacological properties of some benzyl esters on the one hand, and of benzyl alcohol on the other. 1 Following these studies it was but logical to inquire into the properties of benzaldehyde, a chemical substance closely related to the above. Accordingly, experiments were instituted with the object of determining whether benzaldehyde exhibits the antispasmodic properties of benyzl benzoate on the one hand, and the local anesthetic properties of phenmethylol or benzyl alcohol on the other. Benzaldehyde is sufficiently soluble in water (0.2 per cent.) to admit of experimentation on isolated tissues in vitro. Experiments with solutions of benzaldehyde on various isolated smoothmuscle organs were found to show that benzaldehyde relaxes the tonus and inhibits the contractions of such organs. Experiments with the drug on whole animals and observations of various organs in situ revealed also a sedative effect. Perhaps the chief exception to the rule was in case of blood pressure experiments. It was found that the pressure did not fall after injections of benzaldehyde solutions or suspensions except when large quantities were injected intravenously. More interesting than the effect on smooth-muscle is the local anesthetic action of benzaldehyde. Experiments with aqueous solutions and more concentrated suspensions or emulsions of benzaldehyde showed that that substance possesses definite and marked local anesthetic properties. Thus it was found that it anesthetizes the sensory nerve endings of the frog's skin, of the cornea, and of the human mucous membranes. Furthermore, benzaldehyde solutions were found to paralyze also nerve conduction. The toxicology of benzaldehyde has been worked out long ago, owing to its presence, in combination with hydrocyanic acid, in bitter almonds and other plants. As is well known, benzaldehyde is very little toxic, and can be taken by mouth in large quantities without any injurious effects.
we may also be permitted to be sceptical in reference to this second proof. These views do not tend to disprove the possibility of the presence of alcohol in the vessels of the brain and other portions of the body, because we know that hydrocyanic acid passes to the very extremities of the body, and can be distinctly detected by its odour, until it has either been removed from the system by the combustion of respiration, or simply by exhalation from the lungs. 
Carbamylation is a general process involved in protein molecular ageing due to the nonenzymatic binding of isocyanic acid, mainly generated by urea dissociation, to free amino groups. In vitro experiments and clinical studies have suggested the potential involvement of carbamylated proteins (CPs) in chronic kidney disease (CKD) complications like atherosclerosis, but their metabolic fate in vivo is still unknown. To address this issue, we evaluated protein carbamylation in the plasma and tissues of control and 75% nephrectomised C57BL/6J mice by LC-MS/MS assay of homocitrulline, the major carbamylation-derived product (CDP). A basal level of carbamylation was evidenced under all conditions, showing that carbamylation is a physiological process of protein modification in vivo. CP plasma concentrations increased in nephrectomized vs. control mice over the 20 weeks of the experiment (e.g. 335±43 vs. 167±19 μmol homocitrulline/mol lysine (p<0.001) 20 weeks after nephrectomy). Simultaneously, CP content increased roughly by two-fold in all tissues throughout the experiment. The progressive accumulation of CPs was specifically noted in long-lived extracellular matrix proteins, especially collagen (e.g. 1264±123 vs. 726±99 μmol homocitrulline/mol lysine (p<0.01) in the skin of nephrectomized vs. control mice after 20 weeks of evolution). These results show that chronic increase of urea, as seen in CKD, increases the carbamylation rate of plasma and tissue proteins. These results may be considered in the perspective of the deleterious effects of CPs demonstrated in vitro and of the correlation evidenced recently between plasma CPs and cardiovascular risk or mortality in CKD patients.
Carbamylation is a nonenzymatic post-translational modification that participates in protein ageing, together with other well-described reactions such as glycoxidation [1] or carbonylation [2] . Owing to the circumstances of the occurence of carbamylation in vivo, one could hypothesize that carbamylation is a deleterious process preferentially involved in chronic kidney disease (CKD) and atherosclerosis. CKD independently increases the risk of all types of cardiovascular events [3, 4] and induces several other complications consequent to fibrosis [5] , insulin resistance [6] , erythropoietin resistance [7] and increased suscptibility to infections [8] . The pathogenesis of these complications is complex and still incompletely understood [9] . The identification of new underlying mechanisms and/or risk factors is thus a major goal in order to improve our pathophysiological knowledge of the disease and developing new therapeutic strategies. Among other processes, protein carbamylation has been suggested as a non-conventional risk factor for CKD complications, especially atherosclerosis [10] [11] [12] . Carbamylation is characterized by the spontaneous binding of isocyanic acid to free amino groups of amino-acids and proteins, leading to the formation of various carbamylation-derived products (CDPs) [10, 11, 13] . The most characteristic CDP is homocitrulline, which is derived from the carbamylation of lysine ε-NH2 residues. Isocyanic acid is formed by two major pathways in vivo: urea dissociation [13] and myeloperoxidase-mediated catabolism of thiocyanate, principally in atherosclerotic plaques [14, 15] . There are also minor environmental sources of isocyanic acid are environmental [16] . Several in vitro studies have highlighted the potential involvement of carbamylated proteins (CPs) in degenerative complications linked to CKD [10, 11] . This is especially the case with carbamylated lipoproteins, since it has been shown that carbamylated lowdensity lipoproteins (LDLs) and high density lipoproteins (HDLs) are both dysfunctional and could participate in the progression of the atherosclerotic plaque [17] [18] [19] . Additionaly, previous studies by our group have highlighted the deleterious effects of carbamylation on the structural properties of type I and its interactions with inflammatory cells, leading to the stimulation or inhibition of specific functions that could eventually favor infectious and thrombotic complications [20] [21] [22] .
The thermohydrolysis and pyrolysis of urea with and without the catalytic function of ten kind of metal oxides for ammonia were studied under quartz tube reactor and the properties of different oxides as a catalytic bed material for urea hydrolysis were compared.The results show that the water vapor has no effect on the urea decomposition and ammonia(NH3) productive rate keeps about 50%.Most of the ammonia is produced at 133～230 ℃.The added metal oxides significantly improve the urea thermohydrolysis in the presence of water vapor.NH3 is produced at 133～300 ℃ and the productive rate reaches 100%.The hydrolysis of isocyanic acid(HNCO) over different metal oxides was investigated experimentally at 150～400 ℃ and it is found that the catalytic effect decreases in the order TiO2,γ-Al2O3,zeolites,SiO2.On the catalytic condition,the apparent activation energy of the HNCO hydrolysis reaction is low,which suggests the reaction is mainly controlled by gas-phase mass transfer.Ammonia production from urea solution over metal oxides was investigated in a fluidized bed reactor,which shows that γ-Al2O3 is most suitable as a fluidized bed material due to its high catalytic activity,as well as good abrasion resistance and stability.
Cassava (Manihot esculenta Crantz) is a starchy staple food that ::: previous researches have showed to contain cyanogenic compounds, precursors of ::: hydrocyanic acid, undoubtedly toxic for humans. With the aim to determine food ::: security in cassava, this study developed a simple, fast and less expensive ::: step for quantifying cyanide ions by using micro-diffusion with modified Conway ::: cells. After an enzymatic degradation, the cyanide ions were quantified by ::: electrochemical procedures. The validation of this method is estimated. The ::: concentration of cyanide ions at different part of the samples was determined. ::: The results showed high toxicity in some fresh Senegalese consumed cassava ::: varieties (>100 mg HCN·kg﹣1). However, in the processed cassava ::: products, less than 10 mg HCN·kg﹣1 was found in the different ::: varieties studied except for the chips where the levels of CN﹣ contents ::: were important (>49 mg HCN·kg﹣1).
Exposure to isocyanates can be harmful to workers by causing different disorders of the airways. The main objectives of this study were to survey the personal 8 h time-weighted average exposure to isocyanates at 13 Swedish plants that handled either polyurethane, diisocyanates or both, including four types of manufacturing processes: moulding, continuous foaming, flame lamination and low or no heating processes. A total of 223 air samples were collected for 111 workers with personal air monitoring using a dry filter method with 1-(2-methoxyphenyl)piperazine (2MP) as derivatization reagent. A further 272 stationary samples were collected, using the 2MP method, a modified 2MP method and an impinger method using dibutylamine in toluene. With the applied strategy, a large number of workers were monitored and four industrial environments were compared regarding the isocyanate exposure. All workers were found to be exposed to isocyanates in the range 0.004-5.2 p.p.b. On average, the personal exposure levels in the different types of manufacturing processes were, in decreasing order: continuous foaming > flame lamination > moulding >> low or no heating processes. However, there were variations in exposure levels in plants with similar processes and also between different shifts performing the same tasks. Isocyanic acid, which could not be sampled by the 2MP method used for personal monitoring, was found by short-term stationary monitoring in levels up to 38 p.p.b. in the flame lamination plants.
Prior to the development of the synthetic chlorinated hydrocarbon insecticides, fumigation with hydrocyanic acid was commonly employed for the control of infestations of the bed bug, Cimex lectularius L. The introduction of the highly persistent insecticides DDT, gamma BHC and dieldrin rapidly replaced HCN fumigation and resulted in a marked decrease in bed bug infestations throughout the world. However, as in the case of many other species of insects, continual use of the chlorinated hydrocarbon insecticides has resulted in the development of insecticide-resistant bed bug populations. DDT resistant bed bug populations were first reported from Hawaii in 1943 (Johnson and Hill, 1948), and later in Israel (Cwilich and Mer, 1957).
A sample preparation procedure for the quantitative determination of free and total cyanides in industrial effluents has been developed that involves hydrocyanic acid vapor generation via focused microwave radiation. Hydrocyanic acid vapor was generated from free cyanides using only 5 min of irradiation time (90 W power) and a purge time of 5 min. The HCN generated was absorbed into an accepting NaOH solution using very simple glassware apparatus that was appropriate for the microwave oven cavity. After that, the cyanide concentration was determined within 90 s using a well-known spectrophotometric flow injection analysis system. Total cyanide analysis required 15 min irradiation time (90 W power), as well as chemical conditions such as the presence of EDTA–acetate buffer solution or ascorbic acid, depending on the effluent to be analyzed (petroleum refinery or electroplating effluents, respectively). The detection limit was 0.018 mg CN l−1 (quantification limit of 0.05 mg CN l−1), and the measured RSD was better than 8% for ten independent analyses of effluent samples (1.4 mg l−1 cyanide). The accuracy of the procedure was assessed via analyte spiking (with free and complex cyanides) and by performing an independent sample analysis based on the standard methodology recommended by the APHA for comparison. The sample preparation procedure takes only 10 min for free and 20 min for total cyanide, making this procedure much faster than traditional methodologies (conventional heating and distillation), which are time-consuming (they require at least 1 h). Samples from oil (sour and stripping tower bottom waters) and electroplating effluents were analyzed successfully.
Random samples (n = 108) of commercial garri collected from the main garri-producing communities in Nigeria were analysed for total, free and bound hydrocyanic acid (HCN) content. The samples contained highly variable levels of total HCN (1.3–38.6 mg HCN/kg) and free HCN (1.2–32.4 mg/kg). Frequency distribution of the total cyanide levels showed that about 80% of the samples contained less than 20 mg HCN/kg; 13% contained 20–30 mg HCN/kg and the remaining 7% contained 30–40 mg HCN/kg. About 90% of all samples contained ≥10 mg/kg bound HCN. There were distinct inter- and intra-communal variabilities in the residual HCN levels of garri, which apparently arose from wide variabilities in the cassava varieties in use, differences in agronomic/environmental factors with respect to cassava production, and a clear lack of standardisation of the processing techniques before and during garrification (frying).
The main objective of the present study was to isolate and characterize actinomycetes for their plant growth-promotion in chickpea. A total of 89 actinomycetes were screened for their antagonism against fungal pathogens of chickpea by dual culture and metabolite production assays. Four most promising actinomycetes were evaluated for their physiological and plant growth-promotion properties under in vitro and in vivo conditions. All the isolates exhibited good growth at temperatures from 20 °C to 40 °C, pH range of 7–11 and NaCl concentrations up to 8%. These were also found highly tolerant to Bavistin, slightly tolerant to Thiram and Captan (except VAI-7 and VAI-40) but susceptible to Benlate and Ridomil at field application levels and were found to produce siderophore, cellulase, lipase, protease, chitinase (except VAI-40), hydrocyanic acid (except VAI-7 and VAI-40), indole acetic acid and β-1,3-glucanase. When the four actinomycetes were evaluated for their plant growth-promotion properties under field conditions on chickpea, all exhibited increase in nodule number, shoot weight and yield. The actinomycetes treated plots enhanced total N, available P and organic C over the un-inoculated control. The scanning electron microscope studies exhibited extensive colonization by actinomycetes on the root surface of chickpea. The expression profiles for indole acetic acid, siderophore and β-1,3-glucanase genes exhibited up-regulation for all three traits and in all four isolates. The actinomycetes were identified as Streptomyces but different species in the 16S rDNA analysis. It was concluded that the selected actinomycetes have good plant growth-promotion and biocontrol potentials on chickpea.
A process for producing 2-cyano-3,3-diary acrylic acid esters of general formula (I) in which R and R are hydrogen, C1-C12 alkoxy groups or di-(C1-C4 alkyl) amino groups and R is a C4-C18 alkyl group which may be interrupted by oxygen atoms in the ether function, by the reaction of benzophenonimine of general formula (II) with a cyanic acid ester of general formula (III), in which the reaction is conducted at 20 to 60 DEG C and the ammonia released is continuously removed from the reaction mixture with the aid of a stream of gas or by reducing the pressure to 900 to 100mbar.
Summary The effect of γ-radiation on the spectrophotometric determination of iron by three major methods has been studied. The thiocyanate method is particularly sensitive to γ-radiation because the iron(II) formed by reaction of thiocyanic acid and iron(III) is radiolytically reoxidized. It has been proven that the positive error caused by γ-radiation on the 1,10-phenanthroline method is due to radiolysis of the constituents of the blank and not the iron complex. This error may be largely eliminated by carrying a blank through the total procedure under radiation and reading the sample against the blank. The radiation-induced error in the α,α′-bipyridyl method was not found to be of the same nature and is therefore not amenable to the same correction. Data on the radiolysis effect on each of these methods are presented.
Protonated molecules of 2,5-di-R1,R2-substituted-1,3,4-oxadiazoles lose isocyanic acid (loss of mass 43) via skeletal rearrangement. This was observed in low-energy CID mass spectra recorded by using electrospray ionisation (ESI). On electron ionisation induced decomposition these compounds also reveal complex skeletal rearrangement, consisting on N2 and CO elimination, leading to the formation of fluorene or indene type ions. It was found that abundances of fragment ions formed in these processes are in good agreement with their theoretically calculated stabilities. In the case of ESI use the fragment ion abundances were calculated in relation to [M+H]+ ion abundances and for EI use, where extensive fragmentations proceed, the sums of the abundances of [M-N2-CO]+. ions and abundances of fragment ions derived from them, were expressed as a percentage of total-ion current.
Isocyanic acid (ICA) is one of the most abundant isocyanates formed during thermal decomposition of polyurethane (PUR), and other nitrogen containing polymers. Hot-work, such as flame cutting, forging, grinding, turning and welding may give rise to thermal decomposition of said polymers potentially forming significant amounts of ICA. A newly launched dry denuder sampler for airborne isocyanates using di-n-butylamine (DBA) demonstrated build-up of background ICA-DBA over time. Build-up of background ICA-DBA was not observed when stored at inert conditions (Ar atmosphere) for 84 days. Thus, freshly prepared denuders were used. The sampling efficiency of ICA using freshly prepared denuder samplers (0.2 L min-1), impinger + filter samplers (0.5 L min-1) using DBA and 1-(2-methoxyphenyl) piperazine (2MP)-impregnated filter cassette samplers (1 L min-1) was investigated. PTR-MS measurements of ICA were used as a quantitative reference. Dynamically generated standard ICA atmospheres covered the range 5.6 to 640 ppb at absolute humidities (AH) 4.0 and 16 g m-3. Recovered ICA was found to be 73-115% (denuder), 89-115% (impinger + filter) and 62-100% (2MP filter cassette). The method limit of detection (LOD) was equal to an amount of ICA of 24 ng (denuder), 8.9 ng (impinger + filter) and 9.4 ng (2MP filter cassette). The PTR-MS LOD for ICA was 1.8 and 2.8 ppb in atmospheres with an AH of 4 and 16 g m-3. Denuder samplers were used for personal (n = 176) and stationary (n = 31) air sampling during hot-work at six industrial sites (n = 23 workers). ICA was detected above method LOD in 66% and 58% of the personal and stationary samples, respectively. ICA workroom air concentrations were determined to be 1.8-320 ppb (median 12 ppb) (personal samples), and 1.5-44 ppb (median 6.6 ppb) (stationary samples).
Influence of different growing period on the content of starch, hydrocyanic acid, tannin, inorganic arsenic and lead of SC9 cassava cultivated in Wuming, Longan, Hepu, Chongzuo, Guilin and Wuzhou were researched in this article. Content of starch, hydrocyanic acid, inorganic arsenic and lead of SC9 cassava were determined by GB/T 5009. Content of tannin of SC9 cassava was determined by GB/T 15686. The Results showed that the content of starch, hydrocyanic acid and tannin of SC9 cassava were different from the extension of growing period. The content of starch was higher when growing period of SC9 was 8 to 10 months than others. The tannin content of SC9 cassava cultivated in most regions was lowest when the growing period was 9 to 10 months. The content of inorganic arsenic and lead of SC9 cassava were 0.08 ~0.26 mg/kg, 0.24 ~0.55 mg/kg respectively. The content of starch was high and content of hydrocyanic acid, tannin was low when the growing periods of SC9 cassava was 10 months. It was suitable for processing edible cassava starch.
Currently, there is an increasing agriculture demand, not only for human consumption, but also for feeding the cattle. This provokes an overuse of fertilizers and fungicides to maintain the standards of market and production which in turns causes serious environmental problems. Stimulated by these facts, we think that a possible solution could be the use of bacteria with PGPR activities (plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria) as well as biocontrol activities against pathogenic fungi, in order to reduce or to eliminate, in the future, the use of these harmful products. Bacteria used in this work belong to the bacterial collection of the IFAPA the Torres-Tomejil Center, and have been previously characterized by their PGP activities and for their aptitude to inhibit the in vitro growth of the phytopathogenic fungus Macrophomina phaseolina. In this study, the bacterial isolated were screened for their biocontrol enzymatic activities (catalase, oxidase, protease, amylase, chitinase and β-glucanase), as well as for hydrocyanic acid production. After that, an in vitro confrontation assay was carried out against F. oxysporum and F. proliferatum, with the bacterial strains that gave good results in biocontrol activities. From a total of 40 strains possessing enzymatic activities, the following strains have shown the higher values: strain Hr4b (nd) exhibited high cellulose, protease and amylase activities; strain B1-2a (Bacillus erophilus) possessed protease and amylase activities; C11 (non determined -nd-) and AdB1 (nd) enhanced in cellulase and protease activities; strain Hvs2 (Bacillus licheniformis) highlighted for its cellulose activity and CT197 (nd) for its chitinase one. In addition, all of them exhibited other enzymatic activities in a lesser extent. Regarding the in vitro confrontation experiment against F. oxysporum and F. proliferatum, the strains CT3 (Pseudomonas fluorecens), CT19 (Pseudomonas fluorecens), CT131 (Pseudomonas fluorecens), Hvs2, Hvs 6 (Streptomices fradiae) and Hvs 8 (Brevibacterium frigoritolerans), were found to be highly inhibitory of both fungal strains growth. As conclusion, strains CT3, CT19, CT131, Hvs2, Hvs6 and Hvs8 could be candidates to be used as biocontrol agents against phytopathogen fungi. Futures studies will be focused on investigating a commercial product able to be used under field conditions.
OBJECTIVE ::: Risk assessment and risk control for occupational exposure to chemical toxicants were performed on an isophorone nitrile device with an annual production of 5,000 tons, based on improved Singaporean semi-quantitative risk assessment method, with consideration of actual situation in China and in the present project. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: With the use of engineering analysis and identification of occupational hazards in the improved Singaporean semi-quantitative risk assessment method, hazard rating (HR) and risk assessment were performed on chemical toxicants from an isophorone nitrile device with an annual production of 5,000 tons. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: The chemical toxicants in the isophorone nitrile device were mainly isophorone, hydrocyanic acid, methanol, phosphoric acid, sodium hydroxide, and sodium cyanide; the HR values were mild hazard (2), extreme hazard (5), mild hazard (2), mild hazard (2), moderate hazard (3), and extreme hazard (5), respectively, and the corresponding exposure rating (ER) values were 2.09, 2.72, 2.76, 1.68, 2.0, and 1.59, respectively. The risk of chemical toxicants in this project was assessed according to the formula Risk = [HR×ER](1/2). Hydrocyanic acid was determined as high risk, sodium hydroxide and sodium cyanide as medium risk, and isophorone, methanol, and phosphoric acid as low risk. Priority in handling of risks was determined by risk rating. The table of risk control measure was established for pre-assessment of occupational hazards. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: With risk assessment in this study, we concluded that the isophorone nitrile device with 5,000 ton annual production was a high-occupational hazard device. This device is a project of extreme occupational hazard. The improved Singaporean semi-quantitative risk assessment method is a scientific and applicable method, and is especially suitable for pre-evaluation of on-site project with no analogy.
As cassava is grown mostly by small resource-limited farmers throughout the tropics on low-fertility soils with little fertilization and, due to the large potassium (K) export in harvested roots, genotypes that tolerate low-K soils and respond to K fertilization are warranted. The objective of this study was to evaluate cassava germplasm and identify such genotypes. Fourteen cultivars of cassava (Manihot esculenta) selected from the core germplasm at CIAT were grown under rainfed conditions for ten months over five consecutive seasons in Inceptisols either with no K application or with 50, 100 or 200 kg K ha -1 applied annually together with adequate nitrogen and phosphorus. All cultivars responded to K application both in terms of root and shoot biomass with the highest yields obtained by CM 507-37 and M Ven 25 in the absence of K application and at high K levels. These cultivars had the highest adaptation indices to low K and the highest K use efficiency for total biomass production. CM 507-37 had the highest K use efficiency for root production at all K levels. Thus, it is desirable to use this material for breeding cassava which is adapted to low-K soils and is able to respond to fertilizer application. However, because of the high hydrocyanic acid (HCN) content in their roots, these cultivars should be crossed with genotypes that are low in HCN, such as HMC-1 and M Cub 74, in order to select lines with both high K use efficiency and low HCN for fresh cassava consumption. Root HCN contents were significantly reduced by application of K across all cultivars. Application of K fertilizer to low-K soils is warranted to minimize health hazards when fresh cassava is used for human consumption.
To understand the growth regularity and confirm the best harvest time for sorghum hybrid sudangrass,its growth rate,fresh and dry matter accumulation and distribution during different growth stages were investigated,and its nutrient values evaluated in a field experiment.Plant height,growth rate,yield and ratio of leaf to stem of sorghum hybrid sudangrass all fit a Logistic model under dry farming conditions.Growth rate was slow until the 50th day after seeding when it increased until the 80th day,after which,it slowed until the 110th day.There were no obvious trends of crude fat(EF) and hydrocyanic acid(HCN) while crude fiber(CF),nitrogen-free extract(NFE),dry matter yield,gross energy(GE),digestible energy(DE),metabolizable energy(ME),and total digestible nutrient(TDN) all increased.Crude protein(CP) and crude ash(CA) declined from tillering to the booting stages.Fresh yield was maximal at the later jointing stage(121.7 t/ha) while CP,CA,EF,CF,NFE and TDN were maximal at the 1.915 t/ha,1.956 t/ha,0.271 t/ha,7.749 t/ha,10.75 t/ha and 13 358 MJ/ha stages respectively.Dry matter yield was maximum at the booting stage(31.1 t/ha) while CP,CA,EF,CF,NFE and TDN were maximal at 1.920 t/ha,2.126 t/ha,0.348 t/ha,9.070 t/ha,15.51 t/ha,and 17 383 MJ/ha,respectively.It is suggested that for a high grass yield of sorghum hybrid sudangrass to be used as a green feed,it should be harvested in the later jointing stages while for a better dry matter yield and nutritive value as processing silage or hay,it should be harvested at the heading stage.
Aim To select the optimum extracting mode of Maxing Shigan Decoction.Methods Semi-bionic Extraction method was used.The contents of the hydrochloric ephedrine,glycyrrhetinic acid,hydrocyanic acid,calcium-ion,dried extract were evaluated by the results.Results The maximum evaluated value Y for the extracting technique was 26.0593.Conclusion The optimal combination of this prescription is for Ephedra and Gypsum, Liquorice and Bitter Apricot Seed to be decocted respectively before the decoction is combined finally.
Exposure to isocyanates can be harmful to workers by causing different disorders of the airways. The main objectives of this study were to survey the personal 8 h time-weighted average exposure to isocyanates at 13 Swedish plants that handled either polyurethane, diisocyanates or both, including four types of manufacturing processes: moulding, continuous foaming, flame lamination and low or no heating processes. A total of 223 air samples were collected for 111 workers with personal air monitoring using a dry filter method with 1-(2-methoxyphenyl)piperazine (2MP) as derivatization reagent. A further 272 stationary samples were collected, using the 2MP method, a modified 2MP method and an impinger method using dibutylamine in toluene. With the applied strategy, a large number of workers were monitored and four industrial environments were compared regarding the isocyanate exposure. All workers were found to be exposed to isocyanates in the range 0.004-5.2 p.p.b. On average, the personal exposure levels in the different types of manufacturing processes were, in decreasing order: continuous foaming > flame lamination > moulding >> low or no heating processes. However, there were variations in exposure levels in plants with similar processes and also between different shifts performing the same tasks. Isocyanic acid, which could not be sampled by the 2MP method used for personal monitoring, was found by short-term stationary monitoring in levels up to 38 p.p.b. in the flame lamination plants.
UBLETHAL concentrations of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) have been shown to produce marked alterations in the physiology and chemical composition of a variety of plant species. A special phase of this problem is the effect of 2,4-D on the qualitative or quantitative change in plant toxins, or substances potentially toxic in nature. The relationship between 2,4-D treatment and hydrocyanic acid (HCN) content in wild cherry plants has been studied by Lynn and Barrens (7) and Grigsby and Ball (6). They found a decrease in HCN after treatment with the herbicide and concluded that application of 2,4-D or 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4,5-T) does not increase the danger already present in wild cherry to livestock.
Those typical industrial biomass wastes have similar properties with high nitrogen and water contents, causing a lot of environmental problems and until now they have no effective way of utilization. In particular the mycelial wastes from antibiotic production are already classified as dangerous solid wastes according to the current regulations in China, so it is urgent to develop some effective technologies to deal with these wastes. In that case, the thermal conversion technologies such as pyrolysis, gasification and combustion have now been developed to alleviate the environmental load and are also aimed to be applied in power generation due to the carbon-neutral nature of biomass resource and comparable heating value to low rank coals. However, during the thermal conversion of biomass, the nitrogen in biomass is released as nitrogen-containing volatiles (volatile-N) including NO x precursor gases such as ammonia (NH 3 ), hydrogen cyanide (HCN), isocyanic acid (HNCO) and nitrogen oxides (NO x and N 2 O), toxic contaminants like organic nitrogenated compounds and N 2 . The rest of the nitrogen is left in the char (Char-N). It is well known that those NO x precursors, organic nitrogenated compounds and nitrogen in char may then be emitted as NO x /N 2 O which are pollutants causing photochemical smog, acid rain, the greenhouse effect and ozone depletion after being combusted and gasified [1, 2] . As a result, the viability of new thermal utilization technologies of industrial biomass wastes in the future [3] , to a large extent, will be determined by their NO x emissions.
Five strains of Streptomyces spp. , isolated from herbal vermi-compost, were earlier reported by us as having potential for biocontrol of Fusarium wilt in chickpea, caused by Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. ciceri (FOC; Gopalakrishnan et al. 2011b) . Also, the selected Streptomyces strains were reported to produce siderophore, indole acetic acid (IAA; except KAI-90), hydrocyanic acid, cellulase (only KAI-32 and KAI-90) and protease (only for CAI-24 and CAI-127). The objective of this study was to further characterize the five Streptomyces strains for their enzymatic activities (chitinase, lipase and β-1-3-glucanase), physiological traits (salinity, pH, temperature, fungicide tolerance and antibiotic resistance) and to evaluate for their PGP traits under greenhouse and field conditions in sorghum and rice.
Many species of bacteria, most associated with the rhizosphere, have demonstrated the ability to promote plant growth, being called plant growth-promoting (rhizo)bacteria. These bacteria can induce the growth and development of plants, directly or indirectly. The direct influence includes the production of phytohormones, such as indole-acetic acid, auxins and gibberellic acid (Ahemad & Khan, 2012) ; phosphate solubilization and production of siderophores (Jha et al., 2009a) ; and biological nitrogen fixation (Jha et al., 2009b) . Indirectly, these bacteria can act as biological control agents of phytopathogens, releasing substances such as β-glucanases, proteases, cellulases, chitinases and hydrocyanic acid (Almaghrabi et al., 2013; Hernández-León et al., 2015) .
A new method has been developed for the isolation of methylmercury from biological tissue. It is based on the volatilization of methylmercury cyanide formed in the reaction of methylmercury in the tissue with hydrocyanic acid released in the interaction of potassium hexacyanoferrate(II) with sulphuric acid at elevated temperature. The methylmercury cyanide released is captured on cysteine paper in a microdiffusion cell. The isolated methylmercury is set free with hydrochloric acid, extracted into benzene and determined by gas chromatography. A special closed micro-extractor is used for the final extraction into benzene for samples containing the lowest levels of methylmercury. The method can be used for a wide range of samples and concentrations (including background levels). The simplicity of the method makes it suitable for routine application.
Abstract. In this study we undertook quantitative source apportionment for 32 volatile organic compounds (VOCs) measured at a suburban site in the densely populated northwest Indo-Gangetic Plain using the US EPA PMF 5.0 model. Six sources were resolved by the PMF model. In descending order of their contribution to the total VOC burden these are “biofuel use and waste disposal” (23.2 %), “wheat-residue burning”(22.4 %), “cars” (16.2 %), “mixed daytime sources”(15.7 %) “industrial emissions and solvent use”(11.8 %), and “two-wheelers” (8.6 %). Wheat-residue burning is the largest contributor to the total ozone formation potential (32.4 %). For the emerging contaminant isocyanic acid, photochemical formation from precursors (37 %) and wheat-residue burning (25 %) were the largest contributors to human exposure. Wheat-residue burning was also the single largest source of the photochemical precursors of isocyanic acid, namely, formamide, acetamide and propanamide, indicating that this source must be most urgently targeted to reduce human concentration exposure to isocyanic acid in the month of May. Our results highlight that for accurate air quality forecasting and modeling it is essential that emissions are attributed only to the months in which the activity actually occurs. This is important for emissions from crop residue burning, which occur in May and from mid-October to the end of November. The SOA formation potential is dominated by cars (36.9 %) and two-wheelers (21.1 %), which also jointly account for 47% of the human class I carcinogen benzene in the PMF model. This stands in stark contrast to various emission inventories which estimate only a minor contribution of the transport sector to the benzene exposure ( ∼10 %) and consider residential biofuel use, agricultural residue burning and industry to be more important benzene sources. Overall it appears that none of the emission inventories represent the regional emissions in an ideal manner. Our PMF solution suggests that transport sector emissions may be underestimated by GAINSv5.0 and EDGARv4.3.2 and overestimated by REASv2.1, while the combined effect of residential biofuel use and waste disposal emissions as well as the VOC burden associated with solvent use and industrial sources may be overestimated by all emission inventories. The agricultural waste burning emissions of some of the detected compound groups (ketones, aldehydes and acids) appear to be missing in the EDGARv4.3.2 inventory.
Biurea decomposes in the temperature range 230–260° to yield gas, a white sublimate, and a viscous liquid residue. The gas is mainly ammonia (ca. 71%), but some carbon dioxide (ca. 17%) and nitrogen (ca. 12%) are also present. The main constituent of the sublimate is urea and that of the residue urazole. The products are accounted for by four reactions involving hydrogen atom transfer, together with two subsequent reactions of isocyanic acid. The decomposition takes place in three stages, an initial small evolution of gas, an induction period, and a final stage during which most of the decomposition occurs and which is autocatalytic. Recrystallisation largely eliminates the first stage. Lowering the external gas pressure lengthens the induction period. The final stage is more reproducible than the other two. It remains acceleratory almost to the very end of the reaction and has an activation energy of 114 kJ mol–1. The kinetics of the decomposition are interpreted in terms of a nucleation and growth mechanism.
Treatment of Cassava whey with Aspergillus niger was investigated. Heated cassava whey supplemented with ammonium sulphate (NH4)2SO4 and potassium di-hydrogen phosphate (KH2PO4) called supplemented cassava whey (SUCW); heated but unsupplemented cassava whey (USCW); and cassava whey as is, unsupplemented and unheated (UHCW), were used as waste sources and growth media. Total reducing sugars, starch, total carbohydrate, specific gravity, hydrocyanic acid (HCN), biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) and chemical oxygen demand (COD) of A. niger inoculated samples and uninoculated set were monitored on a time course basis for 5 days using standard methods. Percentage reductions in the BOD and COD were 69.7 and 54.5 respectively for SUCW samples; 42.4 and 29.5 for USCW samples while values for UHCW were 9.0 and 4.5. The reductions in reducing sugars, starch, total carbohydrate, specific gravity and cyanide content in descending order were SUCW; USCW and UHCW. The heated and A. niger inoculated cassava whey samples were better purified than both the unheated but inoculated and unheated and uninoculated cassava whey samples.
The present invention relates in general terms to a process for preparing acetone cyanohydrin, comprising as steps: A. contacting acetone and hydrocyanic acid in a reactor to give a reaction mixture, the reaction mixture being circulated, to obtain acetone cyanohydrin; B. cooling at least some of the reaction mixture by flowing it through a cooling region of a cooler, the cooler including one cooling element or at least two cooling elements; C. discharging at least a portion of the acetone cyanohydrin obtained from the reactor, the volume of the cooling region of the cooler based on the total internal volume of the cooler being greater than the volume of the cooling element or of the at least two cooling elements of the cooler, to a process for preparing an alkyl methacrylate, to a process for preparing a methacrylic acid, to an apparatus for preparing alkyl methacrylates, to a process for preparing polymers based at least partly on alkyl methacrylates, to the use of the alkyl methacrylates obtainable from the process according to the invention in chemical products, and to chemical products based on the alkyl methacrylates obtainable by the processes according to the invention.
For the past twenty-five years the problem of control of red scale, Aonidiella aurantii (Mask.) on citrus, particularly lemons, in California has been an increasingly difficult one. A major factor in this has, of couse, been the appearance and spread of the resistant strain of this insect, which now infests a considerable acreage in the State, generally the foothill districts of Los Angeles, Riverside, San Bernardino and Orange counties (Quayle 1938). Further factors influencing the increased severity of this problem are higher standards in packed fruit than formerly and lower incomes from fruit produced, causing lessened expenditures for control of the scale, which in turn results in heavier infestations. Continued research over this entire period since resistant red scale was first recognized greatly increased in the past decade, failed to solve the problem. In spite of all attempts to find more efficient insecticides, fumigation with hydrocyanic acid still remains the most satisfactory method of control of red scale.
Isocyanates may be harmful to workers and methods for monitoring air exposure in the field are necessary. The main aim of this study was to study the field performance of a method using 1-(2-methoxyphenyl)piperazine (2MP)-impregnated filters, by side-by-side comparison of long-term sampling with consecutive short-term samplings and also by short-term comparisons with other methods. Apart from using 2MP-impregnated filters, air monitoring was also performed by a modified 2MP method (FINMP) and by an impinger method using dibutylamine (DBA), which was the reference method. For short-term sampling the compared methods performed equally well for 2,6-toluenediisocyanate (2,6-TDI) and for isocyanic acid. For 2,4-toluenediisocyanate (2,4-TDI), the DBA method gave ∼10% higher results according to linear regression than the 2MP method and for phenyl isocyanate, the DBA method gave significantly higher results than both the 2MP and FINMP methods. During long-term sampling (2–4 h) of TDI with the 2MP method, significantly lower levels were found compared with parallel sampling with consecutive short-term samplings. A time-dependent correction factor for long-term sampling was calculated to be 1.7 for 2,4-TDI and 1.5 for 2,6-TDI for 4 h sampling. The long-term sampling performance for other isocyanates was not studied. In conclusion, short-term monitoring shows that the 2MP method slightly underestimates the true air concentration for some of the isocyanates studied, but the error is relatively small considering the variation in exposure. For long-term monitoring the 2MP method can be applied for TDI but, since the method underestimates the concentrations, a correction factor is needed which needs to be corroborated further.
A reciprocal relationship was observed between the cyanide content of gari and particle size. Hydrocyanic acid (HCN) content was positively correlated (r = 0.62) with sugar content but the correlation with starch content was poor (r = 0.33). From both the nutritional and toxicological standpoints, it would appear that larger particles size in gari is beneficial.
Abstract Identification and monitoring of gaseous species released during thermal decomposition of title compound 1 , dichloro(thiourea) tin(II), Sn(tu)Cl 2 , [thiourea (tu), (NH 2 ) 2 CS] in flowing air atmosphere have been carried out by both online coupled TG–FTIR and simultaneous TG/DTA–MS evolved gas analysis (EGA) instruments. The first gaseous products of 1 , evolved from 170 °C, are cyanamide (NH 2 CN), carbonyl sulphide (COS), carbon disulfide (CS 2 ) and water (H 2 O). At 240 °C isothiocyanic acid (HNCS) becomes the main product, accompanied by CS 2 , hydrogen cyanide (HCN) and traces of hydrogen chloride (HCl) according to EGA–FTIR analysis. Ammonia (NH 3 ) occurs first only above 250 °C, while sulfur dioxide (SO 2 ) formation is not observed till 400 °C. Air oxidation products of tin sulphides and organic residues, such as SO 2 , carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) and NH 2 CN, occur suddenly at 425 °C together with a very sharp exothermic heat effect. All species identified by FTIR gas cells are confirmed by mass spectrometry, except HNCS. Evolution of H 2 S has not been observed at any stage of the degradation of 1 by either of the EGA methods.
FIELD: mining. SUBSTANCE: invention can be used in mining, gold mining and non-ferrous metallurgy industries to regenerate free cyanide from water and pulp containing thiocyanates, and also for their purification from these compounds. Method includes oxidizing treatment of water or pulp at pH of less than 6.0, purging and trapping the prussic acid from the waste gases to an alkaline scavenger, alkalizing the water or pulps after their oxidative treatment. Part of the water or pulp after oxidative treatment or purging of hydrocyanic acid is directed to be mixed with the feed in a ratio such that the pH of the mixture is 1.5–2.5. Water or pulp can be purified simultaneously with the regeneration of free cyanide at any given depth, while cyanides may be present in addition to thiocyanates. Treatment is carried out both in the batch and continuous modes, the prussic acid from the exhaust gases is trapped with alkaline waters or pulps. EFFECT: method provides a reduction in the consumption of reagents during the regeneration of free cyanide while maintaining a high degree of their recovery. 5 cl, 6 dwg, 9 tbl, 9 ex
The root and stem barks of Vernonia amygdalina (VA) are used traditionally in the management of an array of ailments. The present study therefore evaluated their chemical constituents: proximate, phytochemicals, mineral elements and vitamins using standard methods. The proximate analysis revealed (%) the presence of crude protein (6.71±0.10 and 7.30±0.20), moisture content (18.50±0.02 and 12.00±0.20), ash (17.99±0.02 and 11.01±0.01), crude fat (34.03±0.05 and 30.15±0.20) in the stem and root bark extracts respectively. The phytochemicals determined in the stem and root bark extracts respectively were (%): saponins (13.21±21 and 28.52±0.03), flavonoids (1.02±0.04 and 0.51±0.05), alkaloid (7.02±0.04 and 6.11±0.02) and hydrocyanic acid (3.41±0.02 and1.18±0.05). Analysis of vitamin concentration indicated vitamins A (21.5±0.35 and 30.90±0.20 IU/100g), C (49.00±4.4 and 10.30±2.5mg/100g) and E (106.20 ±1.90 and 35.83±1.90 IU/100g); Thiamin (0.50±0.00 and 0.37±0.00mg/100g) and Niacin (0.03±0.005 and 0.05±0.002mg/100g) in stem and root bark extracts respectively. Mineral elements including selenium, chromium, copper, zinc, and iron were also present in trace amounts. The findings from this study besides validating the pharmacological action of this herb, hence its use in trado-medicine also show its inert potentials for use as possible supplement in animal nutrition.
The hydrolysis of cyanogen chloride (ClCN) was studied as a function of temperature and pH. Results were used to resolve discrepancies among previously reported kinetic constants. The pH dependence was studied over a range of 9.54-10.93 at a temperature of 21.0 degrees C. The effect of temperature was investigated over the range of 10-30 degrees C at a pH of approximately 10. Changes in the concentrations of ClCN and the reaction products cyanic acid and chloride ion were monitored with time. For the conditions corresponding to these experiments, the hydroxide-assisted hydrolysis pathway predominated. Collision frequency factor and activation energies recommended to represent the hydrolysis of ClCN in aqueous solution are A = 2.06 x 10(11) M-1 s-1 and Ea = 60,980 J mol-1 for the hydroxide-ion-assisted reaction, and A = 9.97 x 10(8) s-1 and Ea = 87,180 J mol-1 for the water-assisted reaction.
Abstract Potential toxicity of cyanogenic glycosides arises from enzymatic degradation to produce hydrogen cyanide. Information on the metabolism of cyanogenic glycosides is available from in vitro, animal and human studies. In the absence of β-glucosidase enzymes from the source plant material, two processes appear to contribute to the production of cyanide from cyanogenic glycosides; the proportion of the glycoside dose that reaches the large intestine, where most of the bacterial hydrolysis occurs, and the rate of hydrolysis of cyanogenic glycosides to cyanohydrin and cyanide. Some cyanogenic glycosides, such as prunasin, are actively absorbed in the jejunum by utilising the epithelial sodium-dependent monosaccharide transporter (SGLT1). The rate of cyanide production from cyanogenic glycosides due to bacterial β-glycosidase activity depends on; the sugar moiety in the molecule and the stability of the intermediate cyanohydrin following hydrolysis by bacterial β-glucosidase. Cyanogenic glycosides with a gentiobiose sugar, amygdalin, linustatin, and neolinustatin, undergo a two stage hydrolysis, with gentiobiose initially being hydrolysed to glucose to form prunasin, linamarin and lotaustralin, respectively. While the overall impact of these metabolic factors is difficult to predict, the toxicity of cyanogenic glycosides will be less than the toxicity suggested by their theoretical hydrocyanic acid equivalents.
Four varieties of barley (Atlas 46, California Mariout, Hannchen, and White Smyrna) with a graded moisture range of 8, 10, 12, and 14% were fumigated with methyl bromide in 100-cubic - foot gastight chambers at an exposure period of 72 hours. Various dosages of fumigant and temperatures of 50, 70, and 90° were used. One variety, California Mariout, was fumigated with methyl bromide and hydrocyanic acid under varying conditions of temperature exposure, and dosages of fumigant. One-half of the fumigated samples of seed received one fumigation; the others were fumigated twice. Two series of germination tests were made, the first within 5 days following fumigation of seeds, and the second after 8-1, days of post fumigation storage at 50. ::: ::: Under the conditions of these studies, the germination of barley was not affected by fumigation with hydrocyanic acid. Injury resulting from methyl bromide fumigations could be identified as dead seed. Little evidence of retarded emergence was observed. Dosage, temperature, period of exposure, and moisture content of seeds were variables found to he most important in contributing to injury from methyl bromide. However, burley was highly tolerant to methyl bromide fumigations under the most extreme conditions.
Hydrogen cyanide is a colourless liquid or gas with a faint, bitter almond odour. It has a molecular formula HCN. It is readily soluble in water. Its solution in water is known as hydrocyanic acid or prussic acid. Its other name is formonitrile. Salts of HCN are called cyanides. Formonitrile is a poisonous substance; as such it is often regarded as an anti-nutritional factor (ATSDTR, 1993) .
Wheat-residue burning is the largest contributor to the total ozone formation potential (32.4 %). For the emerging contaminant isocyanic acid, photochemical formation from precursors (37 %) and wheat-residue burning (25 %) were the largest contributors to human exposure. Wheat-residue burning was also the single largest source of the photochemical precursors of isocyanic acid, namely, formamide, acetamide and propanamide, indicating that this source must be most urgently targeted to reduce human concentration exposure to isocyanic acid in the month of May. Our results highlight that for accurate air quality forecasting and modeling it is essential that emissions are attributed only to the months in which the activity actually occurs. This is important for emissions from crop residue burning, which occur in May and from mid-October to the end of November.
Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) have diverse natural (760 Tg(C) yr −1 Sindelarova et al., 2014) and anthropogenic sources (127 Tg yr −1 average value; IPCC, 2013) . Certain VOCs emitted primarily by anthropogenic sources, such as benzene and isocyanic acid, have direct adverse impacts on human health even at low ppb concentration exposures (Chandra and Sinha, 2016) . In densely populated regions like the Indo-Gangetic Plain (IGP), reactive anthropogenic VOCs contribute significantly to the formation of health-relevant secondary pollutants such as ozone and secondary organic aerosol (Chandra and Sinha, 2016; Sarkar et al., 2016) . At our study site, a representative suburban site in the NW IGP, the 8 h average NAAQS (national ambient air quality stan-dard) for ozone of 100 µg m −3 was exceeded on 29 out of 31 d during May 2012 (Sinha et al., 2014) , while the 24 h average NAAQS for PM 2.5 of 60 µg m −3 was exceeded during 27 out of 31 d in the same period. It has been shown that wheat-residue burning results in significant enhancement (by 19 ppb) of the daytime ozone mixing ratios in pre-monsoon season and long-range transport in the form of dust storms from the Arabian Peninsula brings extremely high PM 2.5 mass loadings (with peak PM 2.5 mass loadings of 950 µg m −3 on 17 May 2012) (Sinha et al., 2014; Pawar et al., 2015) and enhances the PM 2.5 mass by ∼ 30 %.
In the present study, we applied the US EPA's PMF 5.0 model in constrained mode for source apportionment of 32 VOCs measured at IISER Mohali Atmospheric Chemistry Facility in May 2012 with the objective of quantifying the most important sources of ozone and SOA precursors, the human class I carcinogen benzene, and the emerging contaminant isocyanic acid (Chandra and Sinha, 2016) , so that strategies for air pollution mitigation can benefit from quantitative evidence concerning the contribution of major sources. The month of May is of special interest, as it is affected by widespread wheat-residue burning in the NW IGP. In the present study, we quantify the contribution of this important area source to the VOC burden at a downwind site. Our analysis includes several rarely reported nitrogencontaining compounds which appear to have strong pyrogenic sources in this particular study region. Compounds such as amines, amides and isocyanic acid are presently not included in global emission inventories and the default atmospheric chemistry mechanisms, despite their potential importance for secondary aerosol formation and human health. We compare our source receptor modeling output with several emission inventories such as REAS v2.1, EDGARv4.3.2 and GAINS v5 to assess which emission inventory is most consistent with the results of our source receptor modeling study that employs in situ observations.
Isocyanates may be harmful to workers and methods for monitoring air exposure in the field are necessary. The main aim of this study was to study the field performance of a method using 1-(2-methoxyphenyl)piperazine (2MP)-impregnated filters, by side-by-side comparison of long-term sampling with consecutive short-term samplings and also by short-term comparisons with other methods. Apart from using 2MP-impregnated filters, air monitoring was also performed by a modified 2MP method (FINMP) and by an impinger method using dibutylamine (DBA), which was the reference method. For short-term sampling the compared methods performed equally well for 2,6-toluenediisocyanate (2,6-TDI) and for isocyanic acid. For 2,4-toluenediisocyanate (2,4-TDI), the DBA method gave ∼10% higher results according to linear regression than the 2MP method and for phenyl isocyanate, the DBA method gave significantly higher results than both the 2MP and FINMP methods. During long-term sampling (2-4 h) of TDI with the 2MP method, significantly lower levels were found compared with parallel sampling with consecutive short-term samplings. A time-dependent correction factor for long-term sampling was calculated to be 1.7 for 2,4-TDI and 1.5 for 2,6-TDI for 4 h sampling. The long-term sampling performance for other isocyanates was not studied. In conclusion, short-term monitoring shows that the 2MP method slightly underestimates the true air concentration for some of the isocyanates studied, but the error is relatively small considering the variation in exposure. For long-term monitoring the 2MP method can be applied for TDI but, since the method underestimates the concentrations, a correction factor is needed which needs to be corroborated further.
Potassium sulphate was found to reduce the chlorophyll content of sound green potato leaves, while kainit and potassium chloride were found by REMY and LIESEGANG (5) In studying the effect of nitrate applications upon the hydrocyanic acid content of sorghum, PINCKNEY (4), found that nitrogen affected the size and the color of the plants to such an extent that sorghum may be used as an indicator of the amount of available nitrogen in the soils. Plants grown in soils containing readily available nitrogen grew rapidly and were much greener in color than plants grown in soils which did not contain available nitrogen.
BACKGROUND ::: Salt-aided aqueous extraction (SAAE) is an inexpensive and environmentally friendly method of oil extraction that is influenced by many factors. In the present study, we investigated the effect of SAAE on bitter almond oil yield. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: This study used sodium bicarbonate solution as extraction solvent and the optimal extraction parameters predicted by Box-Behnken design (i.e., concentration of sodium bicarbonate, 0.4 mol L-1 ; solvent-to-sample ratio, 5:1; extraction temperature, 84 °C; extraction time, 60 min), for oil recovery of 90.9%. The physiochemical characteristics of the extracted oil suggest that the quality was similar to that of the aqueous enzymatic extracted oil. Moreover, the content of hydrocyanic acid (HCN) in bitter almond oil was found to be less than 5 mg kg-1 , which was lower compared to that obtained by other reported methods. Results of microanalysis indicated that SAAE led to significant improvement in oil yield by allowing the release of oil and decreasing the emulsion fraction. Therefore, extraction of bitter almond oil by SAAE is feasible. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: These results demonstrate that extraction of bitter almond oil by SAAE based on the salt effect is feasible on a laboratory scale. © 2017 Society of Chemical Industry.
The present invention relates to an improved process for producing hydrogen cyanide by reacting ammonia on methane which comprises adding a minor amount of at least one sulfur compound having the general formula R - S - (S) x - R 'wherein R and R', identical or different, represent an alkyl or alkenyl radical, linear or branched, containing from 1 to 5 carbon atoms, and x is a number from 1 to 5, the reactant gas mixture prior to its passage on the catalyst. The method of the invention provides improved yields HCN.Un Another object of the invention relates to the use of hydrocyanic acid thus obtained to produce methionine, acetone cyanohydrin, in the adiponitrile or sodium cyanide.
Abstract ( S )-Hydroxynitrile lyase (Hnl) from the tropical rubber tree Hevea brasiliensis catalyzes the formation of ( S )-cyanohydrins from hydrocyanic acid and aldehydes or ketones. This enzyme accepts aliphatic, aromatic, and heterocyclic carbonyl compounds as substrates and is therefore considered a potent biocatalyst for the industrial production of optically active chemicals. Limitations in enzyme supply from natural resources were overcome by production of the enzyme in the microbial host systems Escherichia coli, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and Pichia pastoris. Expression of Hnl in the prokaryotic system led to the formation of inclusion bodies whereas in both yeast hosts high levels of soluble protein were obtained. Highest yields were obtained in a high cell density batch fermentation of a P. pastoris transformant that expressed heterologous Hnl to about 50% of the soluble cytosolic protein. At a cell density of 100 g/liter cell dry weight, a volume yield of 22 g/liter of heterologous product was obtained. Attempts to produce the Hnl protein extracellularly with the yeast hosts by applying different leader peptide strategies were not successful. Immunofluorescence microscopy studies indicated that the secretion-directed heterologous Hnl protein accumulated in the plasma membrane forming aggregated clusters of inactive protein.
Abstract An investigation is described in which 24 vegetable waste products were analysed for proximate principles, calcium, phosphorus, and hydrocyanic acid and were scored for their nutritive value based on available protein and energy. The wastes were fairly rich in protein but poor in soluble carbohydrates although comparatively rich in crude fibre. The products were rich in calcium but ranged from fair to poor in phosphorus. These products were free from hydrocyanic acid. Cauliflower leaves had the highest nutritive score (72).
1-Substituted 5, 6-dihydrouracils (VI) and 1-substituted 5, 6-dihydrocytosines (V) were prepared by cyclization of N-substituted N-β-cyanoethyl ureas (IV) in acid and basic medium, respectively. Compounds N were synthesized from cyanic acid and β-(substituted amino)propionitriles (III), the latter in turn were prepared from primary amines (I) and acrylonitrile (II). ::: ::: ::: ::: Preparations of 1-substituted uracils (VII) from VI were carried out by known procedures.
Poisoning by smoke is the main cause of morbidity and mortality in fires. Smoke is a mixture of carbonaceous particles suspended in hot air and toxic gases. Of these, carbon monoxide (CO) and primarily hydrocyanic acid (CNH), are those that provoke tissue anoxia. The clinical manifestations of smoke poisoning are variables. Some of the potential manifestations could be: eye irritation, sore throat, laryngeal stridor, dysphagia, carbonaceous sputum, cough, dyspnea, laryngospasm, bronchospasm, coronary syndrome, coma, hypoxemia, lactic acidosis, cyanosis and death. In the assessment of these patients the presence of soot in the nose, mouth or sputum suggests serious poisoning. Lactate levels higher than 10mmol/L indicates levels of cyanide major than 40micromole/L. The pulse co-oximetry has assumed an important step forward for the diagnosis, appraisal and monitoring of these patients. In the treatment it will be essential to assess the need of an early intubation. The administration of oxygen to the 100% will be essential. As an antidote to the cyanide, the first-choice is the hydroxocobalamin. Its administration has to be early. Its administration criteria are: patient who has inhaled smoke (remnants of soot in the mouth, pharynx or sputum) and has neurological disorder (confusion, coma, agitation, seizures) and also presents one of the following circumstances: bradypnea, respiratory arrest, cardiorespiratory arrest, shock, hypotension, lactate ≥8mmol/L or lactic acidosis. Logically, the rest of the management will be conventional depending on symptoms or complications.
A new production method of fracture fixation splint is introduced in the paper.The basic raw materials are multiisocyanic acid,mixed with surfactants,catalysts,fillers,and so on.The splint,with light weight,high strength,and good injured anastomosis site,could be able to shape easily.It is dry and comfortable,avoiding a gas-tight uncomfortable feeling,easy to remove,remodel,nurse,clean and disinfect after fixed.Patients also could film review directly with fixed splint.
Abstract NO 2 and dimethylether (DME) adsorption as well as DME and NO 2 co-adsorption on a transition metal-free γ-alumina catalyst were investigated via in-situ transmission Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (in-situ FTIR), residual gas analysis (RGA) and temperature programmed desorption (TPD) techniques. NO 2 adsorption at room temperature leads to the formation of surface nitrates and nitrites. DME adsorption on the alumina surface at 300 K leads to molecularly adsorbed DME, molecularly adsorbed methanol and surface methoxides. Upon heating the DME-exposed alumina to 500–600 K the surface is dominated by methoxide groups. At higher temperatures methoxide groups are converted into formates. At T > 510 K, formate decomposition takes place to form H 2 O(g) and CO(g). DME and NO 2 co-adsorption at 423 K does not indicate a significant reaction between DME and NO 2 . However, in similar experiments at 573 K, fast reaction occurs and the methoxides present at 573 K before the NO 2 adsorption are converted into formates, simultaneously with the formation of isocyanates. Under these conditions, NCO can further be hydrolyzed into isocyanic acid or ammonia with the help of water which is generated during the formate formation, decomposition and/or NCO formation steps.
A cyanic acid ester compound which has a structure represented by general formula (1). ::: (In the formula, n represents an integer of 1 or more.)
Abstract The aim of this study was to test whether the multiple-tolerant bacterium Enterobacter intermedius MH8b isolated from metal-contaminated soil is able to promote plant growth and enhance Zn, Cd and Cu uptake by Sinapis alba L. under laboratory conditions. Additionally, the mechanisms of the plant growth promotion and the ecological consequences of bioaugmentation were examined. MH8b exhibited the ability to produce 1-amino-cyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid deaminase, indole 3-acetic acid and hydrocyanic acid and was also able to solubilize inorganic phosphate. Soil inoculation with MH8b significantly increased plant biomass as well as the accumulation of Zn (32%) and Cd (94%) in plant shoots. DGGE and PLFA analysis revealed that the introduced MH8b had only a short-term influence on the structure of indigenous microbial communities. The plant growth-promoting properties of MH8b and its ability to increase the metal uptake connected with its long-term survival and its short-term impact on autochthonous microflora make the strain a good candidate for the promotion of plant growth and phytoremediation efficiency.
Abstract The incorporation of peach ( Pranus persica (L.) Batsch ) roots, dried at 80°C, in soil, subsequently planted with peaches, retarded growth. Fresh roots, root and soil extracts and amygdalin did not affect growth. Peach roots contain about 13 mg g fresh wt −1 of the cyanogenic glycoside prunasin. On hydrolysis prunasin yields toxic hydrocyanic acid (HCN) and benzaldehyde. Addition of peach roots to aqueous soil suspensions resulted in production of HCN, the amount produced being largest if oven-dried roots were added to the soil surrounding the roots of 4 month old peach plants, less so with soil from an aged peach orchard, and still less with soil not planted previously with peaches (“virgin soil”). HCN evolution from peach soil which had been replanted with peaches, and to which amygdalin had been added, was larger if the replanted trees were in an almost healthy condition, than trees declining severely. Hence, the rhizosphere of actively-growing young peach trees appears to be particularly rich in a microflora able to hydrolyze cyanogenic glycosides. As a result, the prunasin content of replanted old peach soil, 30 months after replanting, was lower than that of soil from the same plot which was not replanted. Heat-resistant bacilli, able to hydrolyze cyanogenic glycosides, were isolated from the surface of peach roots, dried at 80°C. Planting pomegranates ( Punica granatum L. ) in peach soil, to which amygdalin was added, had no effect on HCN evolution, but planting applies ( Malus domestica Brokh .) or peaches increased HCN evolution. The application of a KCN solution to soil, planted with young trees, belonging to various species, resulted in reduced growth and, subsequently, death of the plants. The damage was less severe with apples than with peaches, and particularly less than with almonds ( Prunus amygdalus Batsch .). Thus differences in the response of various species to replanting after peaches may in certain cases originate from a lack in the augmenting effect of their roots on the microflora responsible for the hydrolysis of prunasin, in other cases they may be caused by differences in the response of their roots to cyanide. Detrimental effects caused to peaches and almonds by adding benzaldehyde (the second constituent of the aglucon of prunasin) to the soil were only slight.
The association constant of isothiocyanic acid, HNCS, has been determined potentiometrically and found to be 0.135 +/- 0.007 and 0.168 +/- 0.007 at ionic strengths (NaClO(4)) of 2.0 and 4.0M respectively. The indicator electrode was Hg(SCN)(2-)(4)/Hg. For accuracy and precision the metal phase was used in the form of a dropping electrode. Because the association constant is so low, liquid-junction potentials would cause significant errors, since a strong acid was added to the working solutions in the procedure, and an estimate of this effect was taken into account.
Abstract : Object: The object of this work was to provide accurate data on the toxicity of cyanogen chloride to white mice. The redetermination of this value was carried out under Project A 3 as one of the tests of a compound believed to have possibilities for development as a quick-acting nonpersistent agent. The new data also constitute a revision of the data on this important compound given in the summary of mouse toxicity data now being prepared (E.A.T.R. 109) under Project A 10. Discussion: Mice exposed to a lethal concentration of cyanogen chloride for 10 min. show, first, a period of excitement followed by quiet, then another period of excitement of very short duration followed immediately by convulsions and complete collapse. The median lethal concentration on mice for 10-min. exposures is twice as high as the median lethal concentration for phosgene and four times as high as the median lethal concentration of hydrocyanic acid gas for the same length of exposure on mice. Conclusions: The experimental lethal concentration on mice for 10 min. exposures is between 0.75 mg/l and 0.781 mg/l using a 24-hr. observation period. The median lethal concentration, as read from the curve, for an exposure of 10 min. and an observation period of 24 hr. is 0.74 mg/l.
The objective of this experiment was to determine the hydrocyanic acid (HCN) levels that have poisonous effects on animals, in 4 different sorghum and 1 sudangrass species, which were developed by Bati Akdeniz Agricultural Research Institute and widely used in our country. Experiments were carried out in experimental fields of institute during 2014 and 2015 growing seasons. Rox, Leoti, Early Sumac and Nes sorghum varieties with Gozde 80 sudangrass variety were cultivated as May-June and June-July planted crops in a randomized block design with three replications. Plants were harvested when they reached 40, 80 and 120 cm heights and they were extracted in order to determine HCN contents. The analysis of variance indicated that there were significant differences in terms of HCN content in all varieties. The HCN levels of varieties were determined in Gozde 80, Early Sumac, Nes, Leoti and Rox in descending order. In the first year, the highest HCN level was determined in Early Sumac variety with 40 cm harvesting height at the first sowing time, the lowest level was determined in Gozde 80 variety with 120 cm harvesting height at the second sowing time. In the second year, the highest HCN level was determined in Gozde 80 variety with 40 cm harvesting height at the first sowing time, the lowest HCN level was determined in Early Sumac variety with 120 cm harvesting height at the second sowing time. At the end of the experiment, the highest HCN content was found at the first sowing time with 40 cm harvesting height.
The invention provides an environmentally-friendly clean technology for producing hydrocyanic acid derivatives from coal-bed methane. The environmentally-friendly clean technology realizes production of hydrocyanic acid derivatives from low-concentration coal-bed methane. The environmentally-friendly clean technology is characterized in that hydrocyanic acid and its derivatives are prepared from concentrated methane having low content requirements; coal-bed methane is subjected to separation processes of pressure swing adsorption and the like to form relatively concentrated methane for production of hydrocyanic acid derivatives, wherein the relatively concentrated methane has relatively low concentration requirements and can retain residual nitrogen and oxygen having a large component ratio; and the relatively concentrated methane undergoes an ammoxidation synthesis reaction to produce hydrocyanic acid mixed gas, and the hydrocyanic acid mixed gas and a sodium hydroxide aqueous solution undergo a reaction to produce sodium cyanide for synthesis of downstream hydrocyanic acid derivatives, or the hydrocyanic acid mixed gas, formaldehyde and other aldehydes are synthesized into glycolonitrile and other derivatives for synthesis of downstream hydrocyanic acid derivatives, or the hydrocyanic acid mixed gas is absorbed by water or other solvents and then is purified to form high-purity liquid hydrocyanic acid for synthesis of downstream hydrocyanic acid derivatives.
Hydroxynitrile lyases are powerful catalysts in the synthesis of enantiopure cyanohydrins which are key synthons in the preparations of a variety of important chemicals. The response surface methodology including three-factor and three-level Box–Behnken design was applied to optimize immobilization of hydroxynitrile lyase purified partially from Prunus dulcis seeds as crosslinked enzyme aggregates (PdHNL-CLEAs). The quadratic model was developed for predicting the response and its adequacy was validated with the analysis of variance test. The optimized immobilization parameters were initial glutaraldehyde concentration, ammonium sulfate saturation concentration, and crosslinking time, and the response was relative activity of PdHNL-CLEA. The optimal conditions were determined as initial glutaraldehyde concentration of 25% w/v, ammonium sulfate saturation concentration of 43% w/v, and crosslinking time of 18 h. The preparations of PdHNL-CLEA were examined for the synthesis of (R)-mandelonitrile, (R)-2-chloromandelonitrile, (R)-3,4-dihydroxymandelonitrile, (R)-2-hydroxy-4-phenyl butyronitrile, (R)-4-bromomandelonitrile, (R)-4-fluoromandelonitrile, and (R)-4-nitromandelonitrile from their corresponding aldehydes and hydrocyanic acid. After 96-h reaction time, the yield–enantiomeric excess values (%) were 100−99, 100−21, 100−99, 83−91, 100−99, 100−72, and 100−14%, respectively, for (R)-mandelonitrile, (R)-2-chloromandelonitrile, (R)-3,4-dihydroxymandelonitrile, (R)-2-hydroxy-4-phenyl butyronitrile, (R)-4-bromomandelonitrile, (R)-4-fluoromandelonitrile, and (R)-4-nitromandelonitrile. The results show that PdHNL-CLEA offers a promising potential for the preparation of enantiopure (R)-mandelonitrile, (R)-3,4-dihydroxymandelonitrile, (R)-2-hydroxy-4-phenyl butyronitrile, and (R)-4-bromomandelonitrile with a high yield and enantiopurity. © 2014 American Institute of Chemical Engineers Biotechnol. Prog, 30:818–827, 2014
simple device adapted for simultaneously dropping cyanide into generators was developed and proved practical in commercial greenhouses, Liquid hydrocyanic acid (equivalent to ¾ ounce NaCN per 1,000 cubic feet) was effective against several species of aphids, white fly, and scale insects, but it can not yet be safely recommended for use by the average florist. Further data on plant tolerance of Kentia and Areca palms for HCN fumigation is presented. At low temperature, 1 ounce NaCN per 1,000 cubic feet was not effective against the eggs of Pseudaonidia duplex (Ckll.). Miscellaneous data on insect control with HCN is given. Preliminary notes on the use and effectiveness of calcium cyanide indicate that it may become useful as a greenhouse fumigant.
Gaseous cyanic acid (HNCO) is formed in the temperature range 513–666 K during the selective catalytic reduction of NOx with olefins (ethene, propene) over Cu/ZSM-5 under dry conditions, whereas with ammonia no HNCO is observed in the presence of water in the same temperature range; other by-products are hydrogen cyanide, formaldehyde, ethene (with propene as reducing agent), methane and 2-methylpent-1-ene.
The effect of fermentation on the level of some toxic components (hydrocyanic acid, phytic acid and oxalic acid) of Icacina mannii paste was investigated. The results indicate that fermentation caused a decrease in the level of these toxicants ranging from 178 mg/kg to 70 mg/kg for hydrocyanic acid, 638 mg/kg to 463 mg/kg for oxalic acid and 49 mg/kg to 21 mg/kg for phytic acid. When the paste was supplemented with acitve cells of Saccharomyces cerevisiae there was a marked decrease in the level of the three toxicants ranging from 84 mg/kg to 16 mg/kg for hydrocyanic acid, 374 mg/kg to 88 mg/kg for oxalic acid and 24 mg/kg to 5 mg/kg for phytic acid. Supplementing the paste with yeast cells at a concentration of 7.5 g/kg before fermenting, resulted in approximately a 90% reduction in the level of the three toxic compounds after 144 hours of fermentation.
The elimination of thiocyanic acid from the stereoisomers of the hex-3-ene-2,5-diyl dithiocyanates, 4a, 4b, 6a and 6b, in the presence of a strong neutral base in an organic solvent, yields mixtures of the hex-2,4-dien-2-yl thiocyanates 9, 10 and 11via a preferentially syn process.
The cyanogenic glycosides, here defined as glycosidic derivatives of α-hydroxynitriles, represent a rather limited class of natural products, which are widely distributed in the plant kingdom and, to a small extent, even in animals. A characteristic feature of these glycosides is their ability to release hydrocyanic acid on treatment with dilute acids or appropriate enzymes. The term “cyanogenic” is used to designate this property, regardless of whether pure substances, plants, or animals, are serving as the source. In the latter cases the term “cyanophoric” is occasionally employed synonymously.
Abstract. The impact of chemical loss processes of isocyanic acid was studied by a combined theoretical and modeling study. The potential energy surfaces of the reactions of HNCO with OH and NO3 radicals, Cl atoms, and ozone, were studied using high-level CCSD(T)/CBS(DTQ)//M06-2X/aug-cc-pVTZ quantum chemical methodologies, followed by TST theoretical kinetic predictions of the rate coefficients at temperatures of 200–3000 K. It was found that the reactions are all slow in atmospheric conditions, with k(300 K) ≤ 7 × 10−16 cm3 molecule−1 s−1; the predictions are in good agreement with earlier experimental work, where available. The reverse reactions of NCO radicals, of importance mostly in combustion, were also examined briefly. The global model confirms that gas phase chemical loss of HNCO is a negligible process, contributing less than 1 %. Removal of HNCO by clouds and precipitation is a larger sink, contributing for about 10 % of the total loss, while globally dry deposition is the main sink, accounting for ~ 90 %. The global simulation also shows that due to its long chemical lifetime in the free troposphere, HNCO can be efficiently transported into the UTLS by deep convection events. Average daily concentrations of HNCO are found to rarely exceed levels considered potentially toxic, though locally instantaneous toxic levels are expected.the free troposphere, HNCO can be efficiently transported into the UTLS by deep convection events. Average daily concentrations of HNCO are found to rarely exceed levels considered potentially toxic, though locally instantaneous toxic levels are expected.
The larvae and imagines of Paropsis atomaria Ol. (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae) are a serious pest of Eucalyptus trees in south east Australia and their ecological characteristics have been extensively studied by Carne [1] . When crushed the larvae smell strongly like bitter almonds and Moore [2] has shown that the milky fluid that is produced by the larvae in abdominal vesicles and which is secreted when the larvae are agitated, contains HCN (hydrocyanic acid), benzaldehyde and glucose. The secretion pos sesses defensive properties in that ants (Iridomyrmex detectus) which came into contact with the fluid were knocked down within 20 seconds and dead within 2 minutes [2] . Moore concluded that the three com ponents detected probably "were at some stage com bined in the form of a glucoside".
The objective of this experiment was to determine the hydrocyanic acid (HCN) levels that have poisonous effects on animals, in 4 different sorghum and 1 sudangrass species, which were developed by Batı Akdeniz Agricultural Research Institute and widely used in our country. Experiments were carried out in experimental fields of institute during 2014 and 2015 growing seasons. Rox, Leoti, Early Sumac and Nes sorghum varieties with Gozde 80 sudangrass variety were cultivated as May-June and June-July planted crops in a randomized block design with three replications. Plants were harvested when they reached 40, 80 and 120 cm heights and they were extracted in order to determine HCN contents. The analysis of variance indicated that there were significant differences in terms of HCN content in all varieties. The HCN levels of varieties were determined in Gozde 80, Early Sumac, Nes, Leoti and Rox in descending order. In the first year, the highest HCN level was determined in Early Sumac variety with 40 cm harvesting height at the first sowing time, the lowest level was determined in Gozde 80 variety with 120 cm harvesting height at the second sowing time. In the second year, the highest HCN level was determined in Gozde 80 variety with 40 cm harvesting height at the first sowing time, the lowest HCN level was determined in Early Sumac variety with 120 cm harvesting height at the second sowing time. At the end of the experiment, the highest HCN content was found at the first sowing time with 40 cm harvesting height.
A convenient and efficient procedure has been developed for the synthesis of 1-azidoadamantane, 1-adamantyl isocyanate, and 1-adamantyl isothiocyanate by reaction of 1,3-dehydroadamantane with hydrazoic, isocyanic, and isothiocyanic acids, respectively, under mild conditions. The reaction of 1,3-dehydroadamantane with hydrogen cyanide under analogous conditions gives adamantane-1-carbonitrile in a poor yield which may be improved using hexane as solvent.
Abstract Temperature profiles and effluent concentrations were measured during combustion of aqueous urea and ammonium nitrate at pressures of 1–15 MPa. Pollutant levels decreased, while the combustion temperature showed a non-monotonic change with increasing pressure. Experimental temperature profiles were applied in kinetic gas-phase simulations, and resulting species concentrations were in good agreement with experimental values. Sensitivity analyses indicated the kinetic parameters of isocyanic acid hydrolysis are the main source of uncertainty, possibly leading to the lower agreement observed for experimental and simulation carbon species. Rate of production analyses indicated that isocyanic acid is mainly consumed by hydrolysis to carbon dioxide, while nitric acid reacts with nitrous acid to produce water. Ammonia exhibited two channels of decomposition, reacting with either hydroxyl or nitrogen dioxide to form amidogen and either water or nitrous acid, respectively. Nitrogen was mainly formed by the three-body reaction of diazenyl. As pressure increased, the aforementioned pathways became increasingly dominant.
The usefulness of seedling assays for predicting the hydrocyanic acid potential (HCN-p) of older plants of sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] has been questioned. In this study, first leaves of chamber-grown seedlings were compared with young leaves of field-grown tillers by means of the spectrophotometric assay of p-hydroxybenzaldehyde as an indicator of HCN-p. ::: ::: Absorption spectra of seedling and tiller leaf extracts indicated that the spectrophotometric method was more reliable with the seedling extracts. However, highly significant correlation coefficients were obtained in most comparisons of seedling HCN-p and tiller HCN-p. The r values varied greatly, depending to a considerable extent on whether the calculations were based on individual plant values, plot means, or cultivar means. With plot or cultivar means as the basis of calculation, r values in the range of 0.8 to 0.9 were not uncommon. It was concluded that assay of young seedlings with this method is useful in sudangrass [S. sudunense (Piper) Stapf] and sorghum breeding programs in which decreased HCN-p is an objective
The role of oxidative metabolism in the disposition of potassium cyanide (KCN), was investigated in mice administered KCN, (4.6 mg/kg, s.c.) containing 4.5 microCi [14C]KCN. The expired pulmonary metabolites, [14C]hydrocyanic acid (HCN) and 14CO2, were collected and analyzed. Approximately 1% and 2% of the KCN dose was expired as [14C]HCN and 14CO2, respectively. Expiration of the pulmonary metabolites was decreased following pretreatment with sodium nitrite, sodium thiosulfate, oxygen, or a combination of cyanide antidotes. Treatment with hydrogen peroxide lowered the amount of [14C]HCN expired and did not alter the expiration of 14CO2. Treatment with 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole (catalase inhibitor), superoxide dismutase, or diethyldithiocarbamic acid (superoxide dismutase inhibitor) did not change the amount of [14C]HCN expired. However, superoxide dismutase significantly increased the amount of 14CO2 expired, whereas diethyldithiocarbamic acid decreased 14CO2 expiration. The results from these studies suggest that in vivo cyanide can be oxidized to CO2 and treatment with agents that alter the availability of endogenous superoxide and/or hydrogen peroxide can alter the rate of cyanide oxidation.
In Part III of this series of paper it was shown that the seeds of Phaseolus lunatus , as produced by the uncultivated plant in Mauritius, contained a new cyanogenetic glucoside, phaseolunatin, which was proved to have the constitution of a dextrose ether of acetonecyanhydrin. Phaseolunatin was further shown to undergo hydrolysis by mineral acids or by the action of the characteristic, emulsin-like enzyme also present in the seeds, yielding, as final products, acetone, hydrocyanic acid, and dextrose. This decomposition of the glucoside by the enzyme takes place when the ground seeds of Phaseolus lunatus are mixed with water, and from such a preparation it is comparatively easy to isolate and identify the hydrolytic products, acetone, and hydrocyanic acid. The simultaneous production, therefore, of these two substances from plants by mere contact with water may be taken as indicating the occurrence in such plants of phaseolunatin or some similar derivative of acetonecyanhydrin, and of an enzyme capable of decomposing this compound under the condition specified.
Emissions from a chemical core binder system (Hot Box) based on a formaldehyde-carbamide resin have been investigated. The binder is used in some Swedish die-casting foundries. During core-making and casting, low molecular monoisocyanates, in particular methyl isocyanate (MIC) and isocyanic acid (ICA), were identified. Exposure to air concentrations of MIC, ICA and formaldehyde were subsequently determined in all Swedish foundries using the Hot Box binder, and involved three brass and one grey iron foundry. The survey was carried out in the winter period of 2001, and involved core-makers, casters and fettlers in the brass foundries, whereas only core-makers were included in the grey iron foundry. For each worker, four to five short-term samples of isocyanates (n = 298) and one 8 h sample of formaldehyde (n = 64) were collected during one shift for 15 die-casters, 39 core-makers and 10 other workers in the foundry. The air concentrations of the MIC short-term samples varied between <4 and 68 microg m(-3), with corresponding ICA levels between <4 and 280 microg m(-3). Calculated 8 h time weighted average air concentrations of MIC, based on short-term samples for each individual, varied between <4 and 31 microg m(-3); for ICA the corresponding levels varied from <4 to 190 microg m(-3). The formaldehyde time weighted average concentration levels ranged from 14 to 1600 microg m(-3), and the Swedish occupational exposure limit (600 microg m(-3)) was exceeded only in 3% of the samples. In general, the core-makers were exposed to higher average formaldehyde levels compared to the casters, the latter being more exposed to monoisocyanates. During core-making and die-casting, low molecular monoisocyanates, in particular MIC and ICA, were identified. Compared to the American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists (ACGIH) threshold limit value-time weighted average (TLV-TWA) for MIC, the exposures were low. The lack of toxicological and human data for ICA and the relatively high air concentrations call for medical examination and preventive measures in production, ventilation and the use of personal safety equipment in the investigated foundries.
The imidazolium salt, obtained by the multicomponent condensation of benzyl isonitrile, methylamine, cyclohexanone, and thiocyanic acid, undergoes thermal recyclization to 1-methyl-2-thio-4-imino-5-spirocyclohexanehydantoin. The stereochemical and structural features and properties of the 2-thiohydantoins are analyzed on the basis of the data of x-ray structural analysis and geometrical modeling.
The use of an integrative analytical approach allowed us to establish the intrinsic solid state stability of bethanechol chloride (BC), an active pharmaceutical ingredient used in the treatment of urinary retention. First, the crystal structure of the monoclinic form has been described using single crystal X-ray diffraction studies. Second, thermal analyses revealed that the compound degrades upon melting, with an apparent melting temperature estimated to be 231 °C. No transition from the monoclinic to the orthorhombic form has been observed, suggesting that the monoclinic form is the stable one. Third, the two-step melting–decomposition process has been elucidated by liquid chromatography and thermogravimetry coupled to mass spectrometry. The first step corresponds to the sample liquefaction, which consists of the gradual dissolution of bethanechol chloride in its liquid degradant, i.e. betamethylcholine chloride. This step is in agreement with Bawn kinetics and the activation energy of the reaction has been estimated at 35.5 kcal mol−1. The second step occurs with accelerated degradation in the melt. Elucidation of secondary decomposition pathways evidenced autocatalytic properties conferred by the formation of both isocyanic acid and methyl chloride. Finally, dynamic water vapor sorption analysis showed a substantial hygroscopicity of the drug substance. A deliquescent point has been determined at 56% relative humidity at 25 °C.
A method is presented for the real-time quantitative determination of isocyanic acid (ICA) in air using proton transfer reaction-mass spectrometry (PTR-MS). Quantum mechanical calculations were performed to establish the ion-polar molecule reaction rate of ICA and other isocyanates. The PTR-MS was calibrated against different ICA air concentrations and humidity conditions using Fourier transform-infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR) as quantitative reference. Based on these experiments a simple humidity dependant model was derived for correction of the PTR-MS response for ICA. The corrected PTR-MS data was linearly correlated (R(2) > 0.99) with the data acquired by FT-IR. The PTR-MS instrumental limit of detection (LOD) for ICA was 2.3 ppb. Humid atmospheres resulted in LODs of 3.4 and 7.8 ppb, at an absolute humidity (AH) of 4.0 and 15.5 g m(-3), respectively. Furthermore, off-line sampling using denuder and impinger samplers using di-n-butylamine (DBA) as derivatization reagent was compared with PTR-MS measurements in a dynamically generated standard ICA atmosphere. Denuder (n = 4) and impinger (n = 4) sampling subsequent to liquid chromatography mass spectrometry (LC-MS) determination compared to corrected PTR-MS data resulted in recoveries of 79.6 (8.1% RSD) and 99.9 (9.3% RSD) %, respectively. Measurements of ICA from thermally decomposed cured 1,6-hexamethylene diisocyanate (HDI)-paint was performed using PTR-MS and denuder (n = 3) sampling. The relation between the average ICA responses using denuders (34.4 ppb) and PTR-MS (42.6 ppb) was 80.6%, which coincided well with the relative recovery obtained from the controlled laboratory experiments using dynamically generated ICA atmospheres (79.6%). The variability in ICA air concentration during the welding process (170% RSDPTR-MS) illustrated the need for real-time measurements.
This investigation was undertaken in the hope that light would be thrown on the subject of desaminase action by the various tissues of the body. The subject is in a more or less unsettled state, some workers 1 even disclaiming a true deaminizing action in tissues, believing that the ammonia production is due to deami-dase action. Still others 2 take the view that the amino acids instead of yielding ammonia, are attacked in the carbon chain itself, thus being broken down and oxidized, the products formed producing cyanic acid which can be converted into urea by the addition of ammonia formed by deamidase action. In this work an attempt was made to study the action of ammonium salts, or of mixtures of amino acids and peptides, or of amino acids alone upon ammonia and urea formation or utilization by tissues in vitro. The tissues used were obtained from recently killed dogs or from the abattoir, in this case using hog tissue. These were minced as soon as possible, mixed with a buffer phosphate Solution and after an hour the juice was filtered and pressed out. Of this well mixed fluid, 25 cc. portions were taken and incubated with the additions referred to. All the necessary control estimations were made and the methods used were critically studied before using them on the problem. The tissues studied were liver and kidney. The main observations made are as follows: 1. Ammonium salts added to the tissue extracts inhibit ammonia production. The chloride is most inhibiting. The lowered ammonia production is usually accompanied by increased urea production. Thus, in four experiments ammonium as acetate, phosphate or lactate stimulated urea production, while in two experiments all the ammonium salts retarded urea formation, the phosphate being the least inhibiting.
This study was aimed at analysing the compounds present in the bark extract of Mallotus tetracoccus (Roxb.) Kurz. by GC-MS analysis and also to investigate the cytotoxic and phytotoxic activity of Mallotus tetracoccus (Roxb.) Kurz. bark extract. The major constituents in M. tetracoccus (Roxb.) Kurz. bark extract are thiocyanic acid and 2-propynyl ester (52.04%). It possesses biocidal, antioxidative, antimutagenic and anticancer activity. The cytotoxic activity of bark extract was evaluated by brine shrimp lethality bioassay method and the LC 50 value was found to be 84.72 μg/ml compared to taxol 0.85 μg/ml. Phytotoxicity assay showed significant root length inhibition by the extract at the concentrations of 100, 1000 and 10000 ppm. Similarly, seed germination studies shows that the bark extract possess significant inhibition at concentrations of 1000 and 7500 ppm. Keywords: Mallotus tetracoccus, GC-MS analysis, thiocyanic acid, furfural, 4H- Pyran-4 -one, 2, 3- Dihydro-3, 5- dihydroxy-6- methyl, cytotoxicity, phytotoxicity, radish seed, artemia salina.
Four kinds of current MMA production processes were introduced in this paper,which is acetone cyanohydrin process,isobutylene process,ethylene process and improved acetone cyanohydrin process.The economy of these four processes was also evaluated.Based on relevant studies,the ethylene process is considered not to conform to the condition of our country.With soaring crude oil prices,the isobutylene process has lost its advantage.Acetone cyanohydrin process will still be the first choice for new plants in China.And the improved acetone cyanohydrin process can be considered by the companies which have no hydrocyanic acid source but have sufficient steam.
The invention relates to fluorescence immune chromatography test paper which is formed by mutually and sequentially overlapping a sample pad, a combination pad, an antibody carrying film and water absorbing paper on a lining board with adhesive, wherein the combination pad is coated with a fluorescence material antibody 1 composite, a fluorescence-marked material is fluorescein granules or fluorescence material converted by rare earth, the antibody carrying film is a cellulose nitrate film or a nylon film and is respectively connected with an antibody 2 and the T line and the C line of a secondary antibody, the fluorescence material is fluorescein granules or the fluorescence granules converted by the rare earth, and the fluorescein granules are selected from isosulfocyanic acid fluorescein or tetramethyl isosulfocyanic acid rhodamine or tetraethyl rhodamine, and the surface of the fluorescence-marked material is aminated and combined with the antibody by cross-linking reaction. The fluorescence quantitative measuring system is used for detecting the fluorescence strength of the areas of the T line and the C line, and the quantitative detection is completed by the standard curve of the antigen concentration. The invention is suitable for the immune detection of tumor marked objects of urinal fiber-connected protein, and the like.
A resin composition for a printed-circuit board, containing a cyanic acid ester compound (A) represented by the general formula (1) below, and an epoxy resin (B). (In the formula, Ar1 represents an aryl group; Ar2 each independently represent a bivalent substituent group selected from the group consisting of a phenylene group, a naphthalene group, and a biphenylene group; Ar3 each independently represent a (p + 1)-valent substituent group selected from the group consisting of a (p + 1)-valent phenyl group, a (p + 1)-valent naphthyl group, and a (p + 1)-biphenyl group; R1 each independently represent a monovalent substituent selected from the group consisting of a hydrogen atom, an alkyl group, and an aryl group; R2 each independently represent a monovalent substituent group selected from the group consisting of a hydrogen atom, an alkyl group, an aryl group, and a cyanate group; n represents the number of cyanate groups that bond to Ar1 and is an integer 1 to 3; m represents the number of R1 that bond to Ar1; n + m + 2 is equal to or less than the number of bondable Ar1; p represents the number of R2 that bond to Ar3 and is an integer 1 to 9; x and y indicate the ratio of repeating units, where x is 1 with y being 0.25 to 2.0 in relation thereto; and the repeating units of x and y may each be arranged in consecutive fashion, arranged in alternating fashion, or arranged in random fashion.)
Spectrophotometry is a useful assay for hydrocyanic acid potential (HCN-p) in sorghum and sudangrass [both Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] seedlings, but no systematic study of sources of variation in the procedure has been reported. Selfed seed was harvested from each of 12 ramets (two each from two sister plants from three low-HCN-p sudangrass parents), and seedlings for rumpling were grown in a growth chamber, in two rows from each ramet. Seven-day-old seedlings were harvested and divided into two samples per row for extraction; two aliquots per extract were assayed spectrophotometrically for HCN-p. The experiment was replicated three times. The three parents differed in HCN-p [...]
Adducts to Hb could be used as biomarkers to monitor exposure to isocyanates. Particularly useful is the measurement of carbamoylation of N-terminal valines in Hb, after detachment as hydantoins. The synthesis of references from the reactive isocyanates, especially diisocyanates, has been problematic due to side reactions and polymerization of the isocyanate starting material. A simpler, safer, and more general method for the synthesis of valine adducts of isocyanates has been developed using N-[(4-nitrophenyl)carbamate]valine methylamide (NPCVMA) as the key precursor to adducts of various mono- and diisocyanates of interest. By reacting NPCVMA with a range of isocyanate-related amines, carbamoylated valines are formed without the use of the reactive isocyanates. The carbamoylated products synthesized here were cyclized with good yields of the formed hydantoins. The carbamoylated derivative from phenyl isocyanate also showed quantitative yield in a test with cyclization under the conditions used in blood. This new pathway for the preparation of N-carbamoylated model compounds overcomes the above-mentioned problems in the synthesis and is a general and simplified approach, which could make such reference compounds of adducts to N-terminal valine from isocyanates accessible for biomonitoring purposes. The synthesized hydantoins corresponding to adducts from isocyanic acid, methyl isocyanate, phenyl isocyanate, and 2,6-toluene diisocyanate were characterized by LC-MS analysis. The background level of the hydantoin from isocyanic acid in human blood was analyzed with the LC-MS conditions developed.
The effect of Cassava replacing maize in the diet of grower pigs was investigated. A total of thirty six 5 week old male weaner large white \landrace cross pigs were used for the study. These were divided into four groups A – D S (n = 9) following two weeks of acclimatization. The basic ingredients in their diets were soybean meal (SBM) palm kennel cake (PKC), maize, cassava flour, vitamin premix and sodium chloride. Four diets A – D were formulated using these ingredients. Diet A had maize only as the source of energy while diets B, C and D had maize replaced with 50, 75 and 100% cassava respectively. Groups a, B, C and D were maintained on diets A, B, C and D respectively from week 7 of age until they attained 5 months of age. Observations for clinical conditions like anorexia, diarrhea, fever and signs of hydrocyanic acid intoxications and sexual behavioral patterns related to puberty were made throughout the course of study. Moreover, weekly determination of live weights and testicular growth were also carried out. There was no overt manifestation of any abnormality by the members of the maize replaced cassava diet. At 15 th weeks of age, members of group B and C were showing signs of sexual maturity followed a week later by those of group A and at 19h week by all the groups. Performance of groups C and D members were generally inferior to those of groups A and B. (P < 0.05). However, all the groups had comparable testicular diameter. It was concluded that inclusion of cassava meal in the diet of grower pigs promotes growth and early maturity. To avoid cyanide poisoning the cassava processing should be done properly while protein source should be such as to prevent precipitating its deficiency due to the low protein value of cassava root meal.
Investigating how formamide forms in the interstellar medium is a hot topic in astrochemistry, which can contribute to our understanding of the origin of life on Earth. We have constructed a QM/MM model to simulate the hydrogenation of isocyanic acid on amorphous solid water surfaces to form formamide. The binding energy of HNCO on the ASW surface varies significantly between different binding sites, we found values between $\sim$0 and 100 kJ mol$^{-1}$. The barrier for the hydrogenation reaction is almost independent of the binding energy, though. We calculated tunneling rate constants of H + HNCO $\rightarrow$ NH$_2$CO at temperatures down to 103 K combining QM/MM with instanton theory. Tunneling dominates the reaction at such low temperatures. The tunneling reaction is hardly accelerated by the amorphous solid water surface compared to the gas phase for this system, even though the activation energy of the surface reaction is lower than the one of the gas-phase reaction. Both the height and width of the barrier affect the tunneling rate in practice. Strong kinetic isotope effects were observed by comparing to rate constants of D + HNCO $\rightarrow$ NHDCO. At 103 K we found a KIE of 231 on the surface and 146 in the gas phase. Furthermore, we investigated the gas-phase reaction NH$_2$ + H$_2$CO $\rightarrow$ NH$_2$CHO + H and found it unlikely to occur at cryogenic temperatures. The data of our tunneling rate constants are expected to significantly influence astrochemical models.
To the Editor.— Underwood's article 1 on health factors in the assessment of older drivers is most timely. In addition to their neuropsychiatric and physical deficits, medications and alcohol may further impair the performance of elderly drivers. Unfortunately, Underwood does not mention tobacco. Smoking, especially while driving, should also be considered a risk factor. In addition to nicotine, cigarette smoke contains a number of toxic components including hydrocyanic acid, acrolein, and carbon monoxide. 2 The adverse central nervous system and cardiovascular effects of cigarette smoking are generally "dose" related. 3 In a closed vehicle, especially if more than one person is smoking, the concentration of these toxins could reach substantial levels. Furthermore, the act of smoking may of itself distract the driver. While smoking may adversely affect a driver at any age, the elderly would seem to be more susceptible. I would appreciate learning if Underwood is aware of any
To meet stringent NOx emission limits, selective catalytic reduction (SCR) is increasingly utilized in ships, likely also in combination with low-priced higher sulfur level fuels. In this study, the performance of SCR was studied by utilizing NOx, NH3, and particle measurements. Urea decomposition was studied with ammonia and isocyanic acid measurements and was found to be more effective with heavy fuel oil (HFO) than with light fuel oil. This is suggested to be explained by the metals found in HFO contributing to metal oxide particles catalyzing the hydrolysis reaction prior to SCR. At the exhaust temperature of 340 °C NOx reduction was 85-90%, while at lower temperatures the efficiency decreased. By increasing the catalyst loading, the low temperature behavior of the SCR was enhanced. The drawback of this, however, was the tendency of particle emissions (sulfate) to increase at higher temperatures with higher loaded catalysts. The particle size distribution results showed high amounts of nanoparticles (in 25-30 nm size), the formation of which SCR either increased or decreased. The findings of this work provide a better understanding of the usage of SCR in combination with a higher sulfur level fuel and also of ship particle emissions, which are a growing concern.
The available data on the microwave spectrum of isocyanic acid are critically reviewed for information applicable to radio astronomy. Molecular data such as rotational constants, centrifugal distortion parameters, dipole moments, hyperfine coupling constants, and structural parameters are tabulated. Detailed centrifugal distortion calculations have been carried out for all isotopic forms of this molecule, including DNCO. Transitions have been predicted for the parent molecule for the frequency range 160 MHz−300 GHz. All predicted transitions include error limits. The quoted uncertainties represent one standard deviation. A 95 percent confidence limit is obtained by using approximately twice the calculated standard deviation. Estimated error limits for the measured transitions are discussed. References are given for all data included.
Selective catalytic reduction based on urea water solution as ammonia precursor is a promising method for the NOx abatement form exhaust gasses of mobile diesel engine units. It consists of injecting the urea-water solution in the hot flue gas stream and reaction of its products with the NOx over the catalyst surface. During this process flue gas enthalpy is used for the urea-water droplet heating and for the evaporation of water content. After water evaporates, thermolysis of urea occurs, during which ammonia, a known NOx reductant, and isocyanic acid are generated. The uniformity of the ammonia before the catalyst as well as ammonia slip to the environment are important counteracting design requirements, optimization of which is crucial for development of efficient deNOx systems. The aim of this paper is to show capabilities of the developed mathematical framework implemented in the commercial CFD code AVL FIRE®, to simulate physical processes of all relevant phenomena occurring during the SCR process including chemical reactions taking part in the catalyst. First, mathematical models for description of SCR process are presented and afterwards, models are used on the 3D geometry of a real SCR reactor in order to predict ammonia generation, NOx reduction and resulting ammonia slip. Influence of the injection direction and droplet sizes was also investigated on the same geometry. The performed study indicates importance of droplet sizes on the SCR process and shows that counterflow injection is beneficial, especially in terms of minimizing harmful ammonia slip to environment.
A Pseudomonas fluorescens strain (CHAo) involved in suppression of black root rot caused by Thielaviopsis basicola in the field, inhibited T. basicola when colonizing roots grown under sterile conditions or when grown on culture, media. Under these conditions it produced siderophores (iron chelating compounds), cyanic acid, and several antibiotics. Iron-free siderophores inhibited neither the germination of endoconidia or chlamydospores nor the mycelial growth of T. basicola, but reduced the production of endoconidia. On the contrary, siderophores complexed with Fe3+ strongly inhibited mycelium growth and spore germination; free iron was less toxic than iron-bound siderophores. Therefore, contrary to what was believed to date, siderophores seem to be toxic not because they deplete iron but because they increase its concentration to the point where it becomes highly toxic. Cyanic acid and the antibiotics also inhibited the growth of T. basicola. Whetherall these compounds are involved in disease control in the soil remains, however, to be determined.
Hydrocyanic acid is a byproduct of acrylonitrile plant.Integrated application of hydrocyanic acid can increase economic benefit of enterprises.This paper discusses the commercialized production methods of sveral chemicals using hydrocyanic acid as raw material.
High-level ab initio calculations are used to explore the energetics and kinetics for the formation of 1,1-dimethyl urea via the reaction of isocyanic acid (HNCO) with dimethyl amine (DMA) catalyzed by a single water molecule. Compared to the uncatalyzed HNCO + DMA reaction, the presence of a water molecule lowers the reaction barrier, defined here as the energy difference between the separated HNCO + DMA + H2O reactants and the transition state (TS), by ∼26 kcal/mol. In addition to the HNCO + DMA + H2O reaction, the energetics of the analogous reactions involving, respectively, ammonia and methyl amine were also investigated. Comparing the barriers for these three amine addition reactions, which can be represented as HNCO + R-NH-R' + H2O with R and R' being either -CH3 or -H, we find that the reaction barrier decreases with the degree of methylation on the amine nitrogen atom. The effective rate constants for the bimolecular reaction pathways HNCO··H2O + DMA and HNCO··DMA + H2O were calculated using canonical variational TS theory coupled with both small curvature and zero-curvature tunneling corrections over the 200-300 K temperature range. For comparison, we also calculated the rate constant for the HNCO + OH reaction. Our results suggest that the HNCO + H2O + DMA reaction can make a non-negligible contribution to the gas-phase removal of atmospheric HNCO under conditions where the HNCO and water concentrations are high and the temperature is low.
Quinazolinones are versatile nitrogen containing heterocyclic compounds, possessing a broad spectrum of biological and pharmacological activities such as hypotensive [1] , anticancer [2] , anti-HIV [3] , anti-inflammatory [4] , analgesic [5] , antiviral [6] , antitubercular [7] , antimicrobial [8] , antibacterial [9, 10] etc. Tetrazoles [11, 12] are medicinally important heterocycles incorporated in a large number of drugs. They are reported to possess anti-inflammatory, antiarthritic, analgesic, ulcus therapeutic and coccidiostatic properties [13] [14] [15] . Tetrazoles can be synthesized by a number of methods, viz., reaction of hydrozoic acids or its salts with imidoyl chlorides or imino ethers or diazo coupling of heterocyclic hydrazines or hydrocyanic acid. Most of these methods have limited use in OPEN ACCESS M695 (Page 2) preparative organic chemistry, because the use of hydrazoic acid presents considerable experimental difficulties due to its toxicity. In continuation of our department's work [16] on the synthesis of tetrazoles, here in this paper we would like to report the synthesis of a new tetrazole from quinazolinone.
This study was aimed at analysing the compounds present in the bark extract of Mallotus tetracoccus (Roxb.) Kurz. by GC-MS analysis and also to investigate the cytotoxic and phytotoxic activity of Mallotus tetracoccus (Roxb.) Kurz. bark extract. The major constituents in M. tetracoccus (Roxb.) Kurz. bark extract are thiocyanic acid and 2-propynyl ester (52.04%). It possesses biocidal, antioxidative, antimutagenic and anticancer activity. The cytotoxic activity of bark extract was evaluated by brine shrimp lethality bioassay method and the LC 50 value was found to be 84.72 μg/ml compared to taxol 0.85 μg/ml. Phytotoxicity assay showed significant root length inhibition by the extract at the concentrations of 100, 1000 and 10000 ppm. Similarly, seed germination studies shows that the bark extract possess significant inhibition at concentrations of 1000 and 7500 ppm.
GC-MS analysis was found useful in the identification of several constituents such as thiocyanic acid, 2-propynyl ester (52.04%), furfural (28.31%), 4H-Pyran-4 -one, 2, 3-Dihydro-3, 5-dihydroxy-6-methyl (8.70%), benzo-furan, 7 (2, 4-dinitrophenoxy)-3-ethoxy-2, 3-dihydro-2-dimethyl (6.38%) and benzaldehyde, 3-hydroxy-4-methoxy (4.57%) present in the ethanolic extract of MTB. The cytotoxic activity of ethanolic extract of MTB was assessed by using brine shrimp, Artemia salina, where the bark (84.72 μg/ml) was said to possess significant activity compared to taxol (0.85 μg/ml). The presence of major bioactive compound, thiocyanic acid and furfural justifies the use of the whole plant for various ailments by traditional practitioners. The phytotoxic activity of MTB is probably due to the presence of a substantial amount of thiocyanic acid, furfural, 4H-Pyran-4 -one, 2, 3-Dihydro-3, 5-dihydroxy-6-methyl, benzofuran and benzaldehyde. The result obtained from the brine shrimp lethality bioassay of MTB can be used as a guide for the isolation of cytotoxic compounds from the aqueous extract of the bark of this plant.
Investigating how formamide forms in the interstellar medium is a hot topic in astrochemistry, which can contribute to our understanding of the origin of life on Earth. We have constructed a QM/MM model to simulate the hydrogenation of isocyanic acid on amorphous solid water surfaces to form formamide. The binding energy of HNCO on the ASW surface varies significantly between different binding sites, we found values between ∼0 and 100 kJ mol −1 . The barrier for the hydrogenation reaction is almost independent of the binding energy, though. We calculated tunneling rate constants of H + HNCO → NH 2 CO at temperatures down to 103 K combining QM/MM with instanton theory. Tunneling dominates the reaction at such low temperatures. The tunneling reaction is hardly accelerated by the amorphous solid water surface compared to the gas phase for this system, even though the activation energy of the surface reaction is lower than the one of the gas-phase reaction. Both the height and width of the barrier affect the tunneling rate in practice. Strong kinetic isotope effects were observed by comparing to rate constants of D + HNCO → NHDCO. At 103 K we found a KIE of 231 on the surface and 146 in the gas phase. Furthermore, we investigated the gas-phase reaction NH 2 + H 2 CO → NH 2 CHO + H and found it unlikely to occur at cryogenic temperatures. The data of our tunneling rate constants are expected to significantly influence astrochemical models.
Formamide (NH 2 CHO), the simplest molecule containing a peptide bond, has attracted much attention in the field of astrochemistry owing to its potential role as a prebiotic precursor in the origin of life on Earth. It was first detected in a molecular cloud in 1971 by Rubin et al. 1 . Since then, formamide has been found on comets and in a variety of star-forming regions, such as in high mass young stellar objects (YSOs), 2 outflow shock regions, 3, 4 and on the comet Hale-Bopp. 5 Recently, López-Sepulcre et al. 6 detected NH 2 CHO in five out of ten low-and intermediate-mass pre-stellar and protostellar objects as well as isocyanic acid (HNCO) in all ten sources under study. They found a tight and almost linear correlation between NH 2 CHO and HNCO abundance, which indicates the existence of a chemical relation between those two molecules.
The available data on the microwave spectrum of isocyanic acid are critically reviewed for information applicable to radio astronomy. Molecular data such as rotational constants, centrifugal distortion parameters, dipole moments, hyperfine coupling constants, and structural parameters are tabulated. Detailed centrifugal distortion calculations have been carried out for all isotopic forms oftbis molecule, in~luding DNCO. Transitions have been predicted for the parent molecule for the frequency range 160 MHz-300 GHz. All predicted transitions include error limits. The quoted uncertainties represent one standard deviation. A 95 percent confidence limit is obtained by using approximately twice the calculated standard deviation. Estimated error limits for the measured transitions are discussed. References are given for all data included. 84 92 98 98 99 99 100 I Figures in brackets indicate literature references in section 1.4.
topic species of isocyanic acid: H14N12C 16 0. D14N12. CISO, H15N 12 C Hi O, H14N13C 16 0 and H14N12C 18 0. The frequency predictions for H14N12C 16 0 and D14N12C 16 0 are extensive and include transitions whose lower energy states are below 750 em -1 and 250 cm -1, respectively. 2 For the remaining isotopic species transitions of particular astrophysical interest are predicted. The deuterated species has been included in these tables, since it is conceivable that interstellar deutero-isocyanic acid may be observable. CoPyright 
Abstract This paper investigates the effect of a heterocyclic compound, iso-perthiocyanic acid (IPA) (0.01, 0.05, and 0.10 mol∙kg− 1) on the micellization behavior of sodium dodecylsulphate (SDS) (1–52 mmol∙kg− 1) in dimethylsulphoxide (DMSO) by employing three conventional techniques viz. conductivity, density, and speed of sound measurements over a wide temperature range (293.15–313.15 K). From all the techniques, the critical micelle concentration (CMC) values have been determined, and the results have been discussed in terms of SDS-IPA solvophobic and hydrogen bonding interactions in DMSO. The temperature dependence of the CMC values has proved the dominance of disruption of structured DMSO molecules around the alkyl chain of SDS. Further, the XCMC values have been used to calculate the standard thermodynamic parameters of micellization like enthalpy (ΔHmo), free energy (ΔGmo), and entropy (ΔSmo). The density and speed of sound data have been used to evaluate the volumetric and compressibility parameters like apparent molar volume (ϕv), isentropic compressibility (Ks), and apparent molar isentropic compression (ϕκ) to get more clear insight with regards to solute–solute / solute–solvent interactions existing in the present SDS–IPA–DMSO ternary system. In addition, an attempt has also been made to examine the antifungal activity of IPA in combination with SDS in aqueous medium.
According to the synthetic routes,main downstream products of hydrocyanic acid are divided into five industrial chains:hydroxy acetonitrile,sodium cyanide,acetone cyanohydrin,hydrogen chloride and refined hydrocyanic acid.The production technology and market conditions of main products of the five industrial chains are systematically introduced.
Author(s): Crisp McClain, Timia A. | Abstract: Trace gases comprise less than 1% of the Earth's atmosphere, but are responsible for numerous processes of public concern, including public health, visibility, pollution, and climate change. The interaction between oceanic emissions (sea-spray aerosol, biological emissions, etc.) and urban outflow in the marine boundary layer provide a unique environment for atmospheric chemistry. Understanding the sources and fates of individual trace gases in the atmosphere becomes important in developing a better understanding of the processes occurring and how they impact larger atmospheric phenomena. In this work, I describe the use of a novel, compact chemical ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometer for the sensitive and selective detection of isocyanic acid, formic acid, and reactive halogen species, including HCl, Cl₂, HOCl, and chloroamines, in the marine boundary layer. I investigate the influence of primary emissions on the HCl budget and estimate the chlorine atom production rate for HCl during the CalNex 2010 field campaign. Sampling of reactive chlorine gases from chlorinated swimming pools follows these observations and ultimately result in a box model calculation of the Cl₂ emission rate from pools, a previously unconstrained primary source of reactive halogens. Organic acids are also investigated in this work, specifically the sources and loss processes affecting their tropospheric budget. The first study of HNCO in the marine boundary layer is described. A potentially toxic molecule emitted from combustion reactions, the primary (i.e., ship emissions) and secondary sources of HNCO are shown as well as the loss processes and rates in this region. Lastly, emissions of formic acid, one of the most abundant organic acids, are measured from ocean-going vessels and compared with emissions from light-duty gasoline vehicles measured at the California Air Resource Board in El Monte, CA. As a whole, these studies highlight the need for sensitive and selective instrumentation with fast time resolutions to measure trace gases, their sources, and their transformation
The method of using the Chi-cleaning process of the present invention provides a green discharge gas production of hydrocyanic acid derivatives. Characterized in that: the methane-containing purge gas by pressure swing adsorption apparatus, and other separation equipment for separating ammonia to obtain (or methanol), hydrogen, nitrogen, methane, and exhaust gas, ammonia (or methanol), hydrogen, nitrogen, ammonia return ( methanol or synthetic) system makes use of methane gas for the synthesis of hydrocyanic acid derivatives, for recycling exhaust gas of argon; hydrocyanic acid methane gas for the synthesis of various synthetic derivatives of hydrocyanic acid: methane gas was used directly dehydrogenation ammoxidation or amides hydrocyanic acid synthesis gas, the synthesis gas absorption reaction with aqueous sodium hydroxide for synthesis of sodium cyanide downstream hydrocyanic acid derivatives, the synthesis gas and formaldehyde, aldehydes and other organic synthesis and hydroxyacetonitrile other derivatives of hydrocyanic acid derivatives for the synthesis of hydrocyanic acid downstream of the synthesis gas with water or other solvent to give a liquid absorption and analytical purification for the synthesis of hydrocyanic acid and hydrocyanic acid derivatives downstream.
Dependence on natural plant species for dietary supplement has greatly increased in tropical regions. To describe the safety of plant products, present study was conducted to analyze the level of cyanogenesis (HCN production) and its regulation in Madhuca longifolia, Emblica officinalis and Diospyros melanoxylan commonly utilized as both food and folk medicines. Cyanogenic activity was significantly high in young stages of plants and plant parts whereas, at maturity cyanogenic activity recedes considerably. D. melanoxylan contained highest amount of cyanogenic compounds (62.35 mg HCN Kg -1 f.w.) among the highest ever reported for mature leaves. Significant variation in cyanogens content was also observed in different parts of the same plant. β-glucosidase that releases corresponding cyanohydrins exhibit its higher activity in young developing fruits in comparison to matured fruits and highest activity was observed in young fruits of E. officinalis (78.46mg-p-nitrophenol hr -1 g -1 f.w.). Production of cyanogenic compounds depends on cellular pool of free amino acids and was positively correlated with the production of toxic amount of hydrocyanic acid (HCN) in the above plant species. Present reports show the higher amount of cyanogens (HCN) in M. longifolia, E. officinalis and D. melanoxylan at younger stages of plant and plant parts. Level of cyanogens may be reduced at maturity by the developmental losses or by the unavailability of free amino acids for the synthesis of cyanogenic glycosides. Evaluation of cyanogenic level in natural edible plants is necessary before it consumption as food, fodder and medicine.
The utility model discloses a disposable electrode type blood sugar test bar which can avoid the interference by substances in blood. Silver paste which is used for conducting electricity and carbon-coating which is used for making working electrode, auxiliary electrode, and reference electrode, are printed on a plastic substrate. The carbon layer for making working electrode and the carbon layer for making reference electrode are respectively printed with a layer of ferricyanic acid ferric membrane in a chemosynthetic way, forming a reference electrode and an intermediate membrane for the working electrode. A layer of whole agent containing glucose/blood separator is covered on the intermediate film of the working electrode, forming an electrode type blood sugar test bar. The test bar can eliminate easily oxidized substances existing in the blood with a great deal, can raise accuracy, and can raise test sensibility.
Vacuum ultraviolet (VUV) irradiation at wavelengths of lambda > 160 nm of urea-h(4) (NH2CONH2) and urea-d(4) (ND2COND2) has been monitored by Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy in argon and xenon matrixes. Several primary photoproducts, such as HNCO:NH3 (isocyanic acid:ammonia), CO:N2H4 (carbon monoxide: hydrazine) molecular complexes, and isourea (H2N(OH)C=NH), which is reported for the first time, were characterized. The assignment of complexes was achieved by co-depositing the pairs of respective species, whereas the isourea identification was based on the comparison between the experimental and theoretical (B3LYP) infrared spectra. Isourea is found in the argon matrix in its most stable (s-Z)-(E) configuration. It is an intermediate in the VUV decomposition process; its dehydration leads to the NH2CN:H2O complex. In the xenon matrix, the photochemistry of urea yields the HNCO:NH3 complex as a major product, whereas the CO:N2H4 complex is observed in trace amounts. The observed differences between the argon and xenon matrixes suggest the crossing between S, and T, potential surfaces of urea to be responsible for the formation of the HNCO:NH3 complex. A comparison is also performed with other carboxamides, such as formamide (HCONH2) or acetamide (CH3CONH2).
The optimisation of wood laminated flooring decontamination was studied to improve energy recovery. This work addresses the first step of a novel nitrogen-containing biomass waste-to-energy process that has been previously published. Pyrolysis in N2 atmosphere performed at different temperatures (523–673 K) and different durations led to the removal of nitrogen contained in the material, mainly in the forms of ammonia (NH3) and isocyanic acid (HNCO), as analysed by Fourier Transform infrared spectrometry. The optimisation of this step consists in determining a [temperature, duration] of treatment parameters couple to obtain a maximum nitrogen removal coupled with the minimum energy loss in the residue. Amounts of removed nitrogen were determined through ultimate analysis, and energy available in the “decontaminated” residues was obtained by calorimetry. Pre-treatment at 548 K during 11 min appeared to be the most promising, with 65 % of nitrogen removed and mass and energy losses of 18.7 and 8.9 %, respectively.
The formation of carbon disulfide (CS2) and ammonia (NH3) from the thermal decomposition products of thiourea has been studied with MP2, and hybrid module-based density functional theory methods (B3LYP, MPW1PW91 and PBE1PBE), each in conjunction with five different basis sets (6-31+G(2d,2p), 6-311++G(2d,2p), DGDZVP, DGDZVP2 and DGTZVP). The free energy changes and activation energies for all the five primitive reactions involved in the formation of CS2 and NH3 have been compared and discussed. The results indicate that CS2 is most likely formed in a consecutive reaction path that consists of the addition of hydrogen sulfide (H2S) to isothiocyanic acid (HNCS) to generate carbamodithioic acid and subsequent decomposition of carbamodithioic acid. By contrast, thiocyanic acid (HSCN) as the structural isomer of isothiocyanic acid is not likely the source of CS2.
A series of renewable bis(cyanate) esters have been prepared from bisphenols synthesized by condensation of 2-methoxy-4-methylphenol (creosol) with formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, and propionaldehyde. The cyanate esters have been fully characterized by infrared spectroscopy, (1)H and (13)C NMR spectroscopy, and single crystal X-ray diffraction. These compounds melt from 88 to 143 °C, while cured resins have glass transition temperatures from 219 to 248 °C, water uptake (96 h, 85 °C immersion) in the range of 2.05-3.21%, and wet glass transition temperatures from 174 to 193 °C. These properties suggest that creosol-derived cyanate esters may be useful for a wide variety of military and commercial applications. The cure chemistry of the cyanate esters has been studied with FTIR spectroscopy and differential scanning calorimetry. The results show that cyanate esters with more sterically demanding bridging groups cure more slowly, but also more completely than those with a bridging methylene group. In addition to the structural differences, the purity of the cyanate esters has a significant effect on both the cure chemistry and final Tg of the materials. In some cases, post-cure of the resins at 350 °C resulted in significant decomposition and off-gassing, but cure protocols that terminated at 250-300 °C generated void-free resin pucks without degradation. Thermogravimetric analysis revealed that cured resins were stable up to 400 °C and then rapidly degraded. TGA/FTIR and mass spectrometry results showed that the resins decomposed to phenols, isocyanic acid, and secondary decomposition products, including CO2. Char yields of cured resins under N2 ranged from 27 to 35%, while char yields in air ranged from 8 to 11%. These data suggest that resins of this type may potentially be recycled to parent phenols, creosol, and other alkylated creosols by pyrolysis in the presence of excess water vapor. The ability to synthesize these high temperature resins from a phenol (creosol) that can be derived from lignin, coupled with the potential to recycle the composites, provides a possible route to the production of sustainable, high-performance, thermosetting resins with reduced environmental impact.
Abstract Insufficient supply, high prices and competition with the human food and biofuel industries means there is a continuous demand for alternative energy sources for poultry. As a result, cassava is becoming an increasingly important ingredient in poultry diets, largely due to its high availability. Efficient use of cassava products has been shown to reduce feed costs of poultry production. The utilisation of cassava is, however, limited by a number of factors, including its high fibre and low energy content and the presence of anti-nutritional factors, primarily hydrocyanic acid (HCN). With correct processing the inclusion level of cassava in poultry diets could be increased. Extensive research has been conducted on cassava products for poultry, but there is still a lack of consistency amongst the measured nutritive values for cassava and its products, hence variation exists in results from poultry studies. This paper reviews the nutrient composition of cassava products and its value as an alternative energy source in poultry diets.
Abstract The selective catalytic reduction with aqueous solutions of urea is currently seen having the highest potential to reduce NOx and particulate emissions for commercial diesel powered vehicles. Ammonia as the actual reduction medium is formed from urea in two consecutive reactions, i.e. via the thermolysis of urea to isocyanic acid and NH3 and the catalyzed hydrolysis of HNCO over TiO2 to NH3 and CO2. A kinetic model for the hydrolysis reaction was derived for a reaction scheme comprising a set of elementary steps. To minimize the number of unknown variables in the kinetic model for the overall rate, the equilibrium constants for both reactants (HNCO and H2O) and products (NH3 and CO2) were determined from adsorption isotherms using Langmuir and multilayer adsorption models. A data set consisting of 49 data points for the rate determined at varying reactant concentrations was fitted with the kinetic model using a non-linear least mean squares regression analysis.
Cassava is a widely grown root crop which accumulates two cyanogenic glucosides, linamarin and lotaustralin. Linamarin accounts for more than 80% of the cassava cyanogenic glucosides. It is a s-glucoside of acetone cyanohydrin and ethyl-methyl-ketone-cyanohydrin. Linamarin s-linkage can only be broken under high pressure, high temperature and use of mineral acids, while its enzymatic break occurs easily. Linamarase, an endogenous cassava enzyme, can break this s-linkage. The enzymatic reaction occurs under optimum conditions at 25oC, at pH 5.5 to 6.0. Linamarin is present in all parts of the cassava plant, being more concentrated on the root and leaves. If the enzyme and substrate are joined, a good detoxification can occur. All the cassava plant species are known to contain cyanide. Toxicity caused by free cyanide (CN¯) has already been reported, while toxicity caused by glucoside has not. The lethal dose of CN¯ is 1 mg/kg of live weight; hence, cassava root classification into toxic and non-toxic depending on the amount of cyanide in the root. Should the cyanide content be high enough to exceed such a dose, the root is regarded as toxic. Values from 15 to 400 ppm (mg CN¯/kg of fresh weight) of hydrocyanic acid in cassava roots have been mentioned in the literature. However, more frequent values in the interval 30 to 150 ppm have been observed. Processed cassava food consumed in Brazil is safe in regard to cyanide toxicity.
Note: This article is part of the series on Tau-based therapeutic strategies, edited by Leonard Petrucelli. Other articles in this series can be found at http://alzres.com/series/tau_therapeutics Abbreviations 17-AAG: 17-(allylamino)-17-demethoxygeldamycin; AQ2S: Anthraquinone-2-sulfonic acid; BBB: Blood-brain barrier; C11: 3,3′-diethyl-9-methylthiacarbocyanine iodide; Cdc37: Cell division control 37 kDa; CHIP: Carboxyl terminus of Hsc70-interacting protein; FKBP51: FK506 binding protein 51 kDa; GRP: Glucose-regulated protein; HSF1: Heat shock factor protein 1; Hsc: Heat shock cognate; Hsp: Heat shock protein; KU-32: N-(7-((2R,3R,4S,5R)-3,4-dihydroxy-5-methoxy-6,6-dimethyl-tetrahydro-2H-pyran-2-yloxy)-8-methyl-2-oxo-2H-chromen-3-yl)acetamide; MB: Methylene blue (phenothiazine methylthionium chloride); MKT-077: 1-ethyl-2-((3-ethyl-5-(3-methylbenzothiazolin-2-yliden))-4-oxothiazolidin-2-ylidenemethyl) pyridinium chloride; N744: 3,3′-bis(β-hydroxyethyl)-9-ethyl-5,5′-dimethoxythiacarbocyanine iodide; PR619: 2,6-diamino-3,5-dithiocyanopyridine, thiocyanic acid C,C′-(2,6-diamino-3,5-pyridinediyl) ester, 2,6-diaminopyridine-3,5-bis(thiocyanate).
Insufficient supply, high prices and competition with the human food and biofuel industries means there is a continuous demand for alternative energy sources for poultry. As a result, cassava is becoming an increasingly important ingredient in poultry diets, largely due to its high availability. Efficient use of cassava products has been shown to reduce feed costs of poultry production. The utilisation of cassava is, however, limited by a number of factors, including its high fibre and low energy content and the presence of anti-nutritional factors, primarily hydrocyanic acid (HCN). With correct processing the inclusion level of cassava in poultry diets could be increased. Extensive research has been conducted on cassava products for poultry, but there is still a lack of consistency amongst the measured nutritive values for cassava and its products, hence variation exists in results from poultry studies. This paper reviews the nutrient composition of cassava products and its value as an alternative energy source in poultry diets.
Blood levels of urea rise with progressive decline in kidney function. Older studies examining acute urea infusion suggested that urea was well-tolerated at levels 8-10× above normal values. More recent in vitro and in vivo work argue the opposite and demonstrate both direct and indirect toxicities of urea, which probably promote the premature aging phenotype that is pervasive in chronic kidney disease (CKD). Elevated urea at concentrations typically encountered in uremic patients induces disintegration of the gut epithelial barrier, leading to translocation of bacterial toxins into the bloodstream and systemic inflammation. Urea induces apoptosis of vascular smooth muscle cells as well as endothelial dysfunction, thus directly promoting cardiovascular disease. Further, urea stimulates oxidative stress and dysfunction in adipocytes, leading to insulin resistance. Finally, there are widespread indirect effects of elevated urea as a result of the carbamylation reaction, where isocyanic acid (a product of urea catabolism) alters the structure and function of proteins in the body. Carbamylation has been linked with renal fibrosis, atherosclerosis and anaemia. In summary, urea is a re-emerging Dark Force in CKD pathophysiology. Trials examining low protein diet to minimize accumulation of urea and other toxins suggest a clinical benefit in terms of slowing progression of CKD.
Abstract The extraction of 32 metals (Be, Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, La, Ti, Zr, Th, V, Nb, Cr, Mo, W, U, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Pd, Cu, Ag, Zn, Cd, Hg, Al, Ga, In, Tl, Pb and Bi) with oxine solution has been studied. The effects of pH, oxine concentration and water-soluble complexing agents (oxalic acid, tartaric acid, hydrocyanic acid, nitrilotriacetic acid, ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid and 1,2-diaminocyclohexanetetraacetic acid) have been investigated. From these results the extraction constants and stability constants ot the metal complexes with the various complexing agents investigated have been calculated.
Nicarbazin is an anticoccidial used in poultry production. Its residue of concern left in chicken meat is 4,4′-dinitrocarbanilide (DNC) whose content can be reduced through meat thermal processing. Thermal analysis techniques can be considered to elucidate how DNC degradation proceeds. This study aimed to investigate the thermal behavior of DNC using TG–DSC–MS and Py–GC–MS. TG–DSC–MS data showed that DNC decomposition occurs in a single step (252–280 °C) as an endothermic event (ΔH of 670 J g−1). Fragments detected at m/z 43, 44 and 65 indicated the release of isocyanic acid, carbon dioxide and 4-nitroaniline as breakdown products. In addition, Py–GC–MS analysis confirmed that DNC is thermally degraded above 250 °C generating 4-nitrophenyl isocyanate and 4-nitroaniline as the major pyrolysis products. Findings obtained from thermal analysis herein are useful to better comprehend the DNC disappearance after submitting chicken meat to heat processing.
A versatile process for the preparation of a number of 3-thio-substituted furans 1–4 is described. These products have very low odor thresholds and are thus potent flavor compounds. Fur-3-yl thiocyanates 10a, b as well as other S-containing analogues (2b, 7a, b, and 8) were prepared by a Michael-type addition of thiocyanic acid, thioacetic acid, alakanethiols, and sodium thiosulfate to alkynones 6 or 15, followed by cyclization (Schemes 3 and 4). The thiocyanates 10a, b were converted to mixed disulfides 3, symmetric disulfides 4, thioethers 2, and thiols 1, using ‘hard’ or ‘soft’ nucleophiles or reducing agents, respectively (Scheme 6).
Withania somnifera (L.) Dunal, also known Indian ginseng is one of the most widespread tranquillizers tranquillisers used for the treatment of nervous disorders, intestinal infection, leprosy, and cancer; it also suffers a leaf blight disease caused by the fungus Alternaria dianthicola in various districts of South Bengal, India: Pseudomonas aeruginosa strain WS-1 isolated from the rhizosphere, showed both in vitro and in vivo antagonistic activity against the pathogen. The antifungal activity of the isolate has been found to be linked to theproduction of a siderophore, volatile substances (hydrocyanic acid), proteases and chitinases. Foliar application of a talc talc-based formulation of P. aeruginosa strain WS-1 to field grown W. somnifera reduced disease severity by 80% compared to non-treated control.
The invention relates to a method for producing a cassava food. The outer skin of cassava tuberous roots is peeled, and then the cassava tuberous roots are sliced, precooked, steamed with steam, dried and sieved to obtain finished products. The method has simple operation and low production cost; the finished products do not contain hydrocyanic acid, have the original flavor of cassava and can be eaten directly.
Triglochin maritima L., seaside arrowgrass, and T. palustris L., marsh arrowgrass, are widespread on wet saline and high lime soils in the Prairie Provinces of Canada. The morphology, ecology, and general biology of the two species are discussed with special emphasis on their poisonous properties. Triglochin is cyanogenic, and the hydrocyanic acid formed on injury to the plants sometimes causes severe cattle losses.
Isocyanic acid (HNCO) is the most stable of all its isomers; it has been observed repeatedly in many different conditions of the Interstellar Media, and its chemistry is poorly known. To quantitatively estimate the abundance of HNCO with respect to other organic molecules, we compute its rotational quenching rates colliding with H2, the most common gas in the gaseous Interstellar Media. We compute ab initio the van der Waals interaction HNCO-H2, in the rigid molecules approximation, with a CCSD(T)-F12a method. On the fitted ab initio surface, inelastic scattering cross sections and rates are calculated for a temperature range of 7-200 K, with the coupled-states quantum time-independent formalism. The critical densities are high enough to yield rotational temperatures of HNCO differing significantly from the kinetic temperature of H2, especially so for the shorter wavelengths observed at the ALMA interferometer. It is found that the quenching rates for collisions with ortho- or para-H2 differ greatly, opening the possibility of far from equilibrium populations of some rotational levels of HNCO.
The materials under study were prepared from aqueous solutions of ferrocyanic acid and salts of the ::: involved transition metals and their crystal structure solved and refined from X-ray powder diffraction ::: data. Complementary information from thermogravimetric, infrared and Mo¨ ssbauer data was also used ::: for the structural study. Three different crystal structures were found: hexagonal (P-3) for Zn with the ::: zinc atom coordinated to three N ends of CN groups plus a water molecule, cubic (Pm-3m) for Ni and Cu, ::: and monoclinic (P21/m) for Co. For Ni and Cu the obtained solids have an open channel framework ::: related to 50% of vacancies for the building unit, [Fe(CN)6]. In the as-synthesized material the ::: framework free volume is occupied by coordinated and hydrogen-bonded water molecules. These of ::: hexacyanoferrates (II) have received certain attention as prototype of materials for the hydrogen ::: storage. In the anhydrous phase of Ni and Cu, 50% of the metal (T) coordination sites, located at the ::: cavities surface, will be available to interact with the hydrogen molecule. However, when the crystal ::: waters are removed the porous frameworks collapse as it is suggested by H2 and CO2 adsorption data. ::: For Co, a structure of stacked layers was found where the cobalt atoms have both tetrahedral and ::: octahedral coordination. The layers remain together through a network of hydrogen-bonding ::: interactions between coordinated and weakly bonded water molecules. No H2 adsorption was observed ::: in the anhydrous phase of Co. For Zn, the porous framework remains stable on the water removal but ::: with a system of narrow channels and a small available volume, also inaccessible to H2. ::: & 2008 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
A plant growth-promoting bacterial strain, GRC2, was isolated from potato rhizosphere and characterized as fluorescent Pseudomonas. It produced a hydroxamate-type siderophore in iron-deficient tryptic soy medium. The production of hydrocyanic acid and indole acetic acid was also recorded under normal growth conditions. The strain showed a strong antagonistic effect against Macrophomina phaseolina, a charcoal rot pathogen of peanut, when co-cultured on tryptic soy agar medium. The growth inhibition of M. phaseolina was 74% after 5 days of incubation. Bacterization of peanut seeds with fluorescent Pseudomonas GRC2 resulted in increased seed germination, early seedling growth, fresh nodule weight, grain yield and reduced charcoal rot disease of peanut in M. phaseolina-infested soil as compared with control. A streptomycin-resistant marker of the bacterium GRC2strep+ was used to monitor root colonization, which positively confirmed the efficient colonization of peanut root. Seed bacterization reduced charcoal rot disease in M. phaseolina-infested soil as compared with the control by 99%, making the organism a potential biocontrol agent against charcoal rot of peanut.
The triplet electronic states of isocyanic acid have been systematically investigated by means of state-of-the-art electronic structure methods, including various correlation techniques based on the coupled-cluster ansatz [CCSD, EOM-CCSD, CCSD(T), and BD(TQ)], second- through fifth-order Moller−Plesset perturbation theory (MP2-MP5), and the complete active space self-consistent field approach. The one-particle [(C,N,O)/H] basis sets for these studies ranged in quality from [4s2p1d/2s1p] to [7s6p5d4f3g2h1i/6s5p4d3f2g1h]. Vertical excitation energies were determined for the lowest 13 triplet states (5 valence, 8 Rydberg), and potential energy curves for bending to and from linearity were generated for 10 of these states, revealing intricate state interactions and numerous actual and avoided crossings. An extensive mapping was then executed for the interlocking a3A‘ ‘ and b3A‘ surfaces, which produced geometric structures, relative energies, harmonic vibrational frequencies, and selected large-amplitude vib...
500 random samples of gari (a cassava by-product) being hawked for sale in Ibadan markets, in Nigeria, were assayed for hydrocyanic acid (HCN) content. Most of the samples contained detectable amounts of HCN, ranging between 0.8 and 38 mg/kg, and only a very small proportion (0.4%) contained no cyanide. The limit of HCN detection was 0.1 ppm. There was no significant difference (P < 0.01) between the mean total cyanide (glycoside-bound plus non-glycosidic) and free cyanide (non-glycosidic) contents, 8.0 ± 6.9 mg HCN/kg and 7.2 ± 5.8 mg HCN/kg, respectively; indicating that an overwhelming proportion of the residual cyanide content of commercial gari could be present in the “free” form. The toxicity implications of free cyanide in cassava diets is briefly discussed.
In a letter submitted to the Royal Society some weeks ago I directed attention to a new series of homologues and analogues of hydrocyanic acid generated by the action of chloroform on the primary monamines. As a representative of this group of bodies, I described the cyanide of phenyl, the formation and the properties of which had been almost exclusively the subject of my researches. I have followed up the study of these new bodies, which have become more and more attractive to me in proportion as I investigated their nature. Being formed in a well-defined reaction, endowed with properties quite unexpected, stable in certain cases, and of extreme alterability in others, capable of the most varied reactions that can be imagined, these bodies possess all the characters which invite a detailed examination. Thus I find myself at the threshhold of a long investigation, the results of which I beg permission to submit to the Royal Society in the order in which they present themselves.
Sorghum (Sorghum bicolor [L.] Moench.) research activities at the Tropical Agriculture Research Station (TARS), Mayaguez, Puerto Rico, are described. In cooperation with the Texas Agricultural Experiment Station, 423 daylength insensitive lines from the Sorghum Conversion Program were developed. Numerous new collections were evaluated and classified. Other activities include the evaluation of new cytoplasms and their reactions when crossed to converted lines, the evaluation of grain and forage hybrids, the comparison of daylength sensitive versus daylength insensitive forage hybrids and the development of single and three-way hybrids. Newly developed single and three-way forage hybrids yield over 25 tons ha-1 of dry forage in 180 days. Sorghum populations developed, or in process of development, at TARS in cooperation with other scientists include: 1. populations with reduced hydrocyanic acid (HCN) potential; 2. populations of high yield potential; and 3. populations with increased resistance to common tropical diseases of sorghum.
Ginkgo biloba is a dioecious and unique species within Ginkgo family and Ginkgo genus, but it shows a big variability. From 1950s, resources of female plants in China were investigated and collected, and the seed anatomical structure and morphological characters at different development stages were observed. According to the shape, length, width and thickness of ovule bracket and seed stone, as well as the characteristics of both sides and top of the stone, the female plants of Ginkgo biloba have been divided into five types, long-stone, Buddha-finger, horse-bell, mume-stone and round-stone. In addition, the important cultivars belonging to different types were also determined. The stone weight, index of stone shape, and contents of dry matter, amylose, amylopectin, starch, rough protein, soluble sugar and hydrocyanic acid in seed kernel of each type were measured, and the qualities of seed stone were appraised, which lays a foundation for the improvement and utilization of female plant resources in Ginkgo biloba.
Objective To analyse the cloning and sequencing of mature fragment of human bone morphogenetic protein-4 gene. Methods The template DNA was extract from the human osteosarcoma cells line U-2OS by the single-step isolation method with isothiocyanic acid guanidine, the cDNA coding for the mature fragment of BMP-4 was amplified by the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction(RT-PCR). The mature fragment of BMP-4 was cloned into the vector pUC19, and sequenced by Sanger dideoxy-mediated chain termination method. Results The mature fragment of BMP-4 cDNA was obtained by RT-PCR and identified by sequencing. The computer search was done on Genebank, and the published DNA sequence of BMP-4 from Genebank (D30751) was chosen for a reference. Analysis showed that the homology and similarity of nucleotides and amino acids between cDNA of rhBMP-4 mature fragment and the published sequence of BMP-4 were both 99％ . Sequence analysis revealed that there were two bases mutations, one was at base 1 154(201) G C, this had no influence on the corresponding amino acids(Val), another was at base 1 222(269) C T, the mutation at the base 1 222 had turned the Ala into Val. Conclusion The mature fragment of BMP-4 gene has been cloned. The gene is of great significance in treatment of skeletal injuries and diseases.
Blood levels of urea rise with progressive decline in kidney function. Older studies examining acute urea infusion suggested that urea was well-tolerated at levels 8-10× above normal values. More recent in vitro and in vivo work argue the opposite and demonstrate both direct and indirect toxicities of urea, which probably promote the premature aging phenotype that is pervasive in chronic kidney disease (CKD). Elevated urea at concentrations typically encountered in uremic patients induces disintegration of the gut epithelial barrier, leading to translocation of bacterial toxins into the bloodstream and systemic inflammation. Urea induces apoptosis of vascular smooth muscle cells as well as endothelial dysfunction, thus directly promoting cardiovascular disease. Further, urea stimulates oxidative stress and dysfunction in adipocytes, leading to insulin resistance. Finally, there are widespread indirect effects of elevated urea as a result of the carbamylation reaction, where isocyanic acid (a product of urea catabolism) alters the structure and function of proteins in the body. Carbamylation has been linked with renal fibrosis, atherosclerosis and anaemia. In summary, urea is a re-emerging Dark Force in CKD pathophysiology. Trials examining low protein diet to minimize accumulation of urea and other toxins suggest a clinical benefit in terms of slowing progression of CKD.
it can synthesize and release cyanogenic glycosides (White et al., 1998) . Hydrolysis of cyanogenic glycosides produces hydrocyanic acid (HCN), which can potentially mobilise Hg and Au in the substrate and induce metal uptake into the plant, thereby making cassava a potential candidate for future phytoextraction studies.
Melamine is an organic compound that is commonly found in the form of nitrogen-rich white crystals, and is synthesized from urea decomposing into cyanic acid with an intermediate step. Sometimes, they have been illegally added into food, animal feed and even milk to increase the apparent protein content [1, 2] . High-dosage melamine will result in severe kidney damage to both humans and animals. When other impurities associated with melanin synthesis appear, particularly cyanuric acid, the toxicity of melamine is further aggravated [3] . In the past two decades, food safety problems caused by melamine contamination have emerged in an endless stream. Therefore, detection of melamine has always been one of the hot issues of research for each country in the world. In practical, some conventional methods have already been employed in laboratory have already been utilized to detect melamine, such as capillary electrophoresis [4] , chemiluminescence [5] , electrochemical immunosensors [6] , high performance liquid chromatography/high performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (HPLC/HPLC-MS) [7] [8] [9] and antibody-based immunological method [10] . Moreover, these conventional methods require expensive equipment and trained operators. The corresponding sample preparations are time-consuming and tedious. Therefore, it is highly desirable to develop a new rapid detection method to replace these traditional methods. Recently, gold nanoparticles (AuNPs) have been shown to possess many attractive characteristics including unique optical and electrical properties as well as a high molar extinction coefficient. These features allow them to serve as sensitive probes for detecting chemical and biological analytes [11] . AuNPs are also easy to prepare in a liquid by reducing chloroauric acid with a reductant [12, 13] . However, the size and shape of AuNPs are closely related to the detection sensitivity. Actually, the influence produced by the size and shape of AuNPs used in colorimetric assay has been investigated by many researchers [14] [15] [16] . For example, the spectral width of AuNPs is decreased with the increasing size of AuNPs [17, 18] . The aqueous-based seed-mediated growth of monodisperse gold octahedra with wide range of sizes (50-150 nm in side length) has been investigated to reduce different amounts of HAuCl 4 using butenoic acid as reducing agent. These plasmonic substrates exhibit high and uniform SERS signals over extended areas with intensities increasing with the size of Au nanoparticle [19] . The synthesis of nearly monodisperse single crystalline silver nanocubes in a non-polar solvent (1,2-dichlorobenzene) using oleylamine as the reducing and capping agent has been investigated [20] . Moreover, AuNPs have the potential to be applied on-site monitoring of environmental pollution due to the intrinsic absorption spectroscopy, which is sensitive to the change of extinction coefficient caused by the aggregation of AuNPs [21] . These approaches have demonstrated the excellent analytical performance of AuNPs with a high sensitivity and excellent selectivity as driven by the interactions of the analyte-AuNPs surroundings, such as electrostatic, hydrogen bonds, and so on [22] . One of the most common applications of biological analytes is to encapsulate the AuNPs with a functional group or molecules. The encapsulated agent should be able to bind specifically with the analytes and dissociate from the AuNPs, thereby allowing the aggregation of AuNPs induced by salt. This mechanism was associated with localized surface plasmon resonance (LSPR) and has been adopted in detecting ochratoxin A (OTA) [23] [24] [25] [26] . A series of colorimetric sensors using the encapsulated AuNPs have been proposed for rapid detection of other hazardous materials [27] [28] [29] [30] [31] [32] [33] [34] [35] . A novel colorimetric sensing method for detection of plant hormone abscisic acid (ABA) was validated by our group. Measuring occurrences of the ABA molecules directly and repeatedly, highly specific nucleic acid aptamers enable molecular recognition of ABA to form the ABA-aptamer complexes with G-quadruplex structures which couple a common scaffold to lose the ability that stabilizes AuNPs against NaCl-induced aggregation in ABA recognition [36] . Recently, some papers have reported on the development of colorimetric sensors for detecting melamine [37] [38] [39] [40] [41] [42] [43] [44] . Although melamine in milk products has been detected on-site and real-time by using a reliable and highly sensitive colorimetric sensing method significantly involving the aggregation of AuNPs, the colorimetric assay of melamine using AuNPs in our recently published paper is found to be susceptible to complex solution conditions [45] . Therefore, it is imperative to explore a new, efficient and stable method to detect melamine in milk samples. To achieve this goal, the surface of AuNPs needs to be functionalized with melamine aptamers via the coordinated bond, which allows aptamers to specifically bind the melamine to trigger the aggregation of AuNPs in the presence of salt [46] . Being aware of these research areas in functionalized AuNPs, some researchers have already reported on the sensitive colorimetric detection of melamine in milk [47] [48] [49] . However, the optimized performance analysis of the colorimetric assay of melamine in milk samples and in aqueous solutions with aptamer-functionalized AuNPs has not been systematically investigated. In this work, we prospected the application of aptamer-functionalized AuNPs in the detection of melamine in milk samples in comparison with the detection of melamine in aqueous solutions. It aims to prove that coordination chemistry is one of the main strategies in colorimetric detection of specific targets based on the AuNPs. Compared with the previous works, our study focuses on detection of lower concentration of melamine. Moreover, the kinetic analysis of this colorimetric assay of melamine using aptamer-functionalized AuNPs was validated. And this strategy involving the coordination chemistry is furthermore equally applicable for complex sample matrixes (such as food) since the presence of additional salts, DNA, proteins and small molecules would significantly affect aggregation of AuNPs.
Accurate values of the activity coefficients of thiocyanic acid in aqueous solution have been obtained for concentrations of up to 0.1 molal at 25 °C by combining results for transference-number experiments with those for cells with transport. The transference-number experiments were done with the moving-boundary method, the transference-number at infinite dilution being calculated from measured conductivities of the thiocyanic acid. For the electromotive force (e.m.f.) measurements, conventional glass electrodes were used in conjunction with a high input-impedance electrometer.The results obtained electrochemically were checked by determining activity coefficients from freezing-point depression measurements which also extended the range of concentrations to 1 molal.The results of the two types of measurement are in good agreement.
DOGGETT, H. 1988. Sorghum. Longman Scientific and Technical. Essex, England. GORZ, H. J., W. L. HAAG, J. E. SPECHT, AND F. A. HASKINS. 1977. Assay of p-hydroxybenzaldehyde as a measure of hydrocyanic acid potential sorghum. Crop Sci. 17: 578-582. HOGG, P. G., AND H. L. AHLGREN. 1942. A rapid method for determining hydrocyanic acid content of single plants of Sudan grass. J. Amer. Soc. Agron. 42: 199-200. SAS INSTITUTE, INC. 1985. SAS user's guide: Statistics. 5th ed. SAS Inst., Inc., Cary, NC. TEETES, G. L. 1985. Insect resistant sorghums in pest management. Insect Sci. Applic. 6: 443-451. WAJANT, H., D. RIEDEL, S. BENZ, AND K. W. MUNDRY. 1994. Immunocytological localization of hydroxynitrile lyases from Sorghum bicolor L. and Linum usitatissimum L. Plant Science 103: 145-154.
Leaves of 51 species and three varieties of Lotus (Leguminosae) were assessed quantitatively for hydrocyanic acid (HCN) reaction intensity and the data correlated with basic chromosome number and geographic distribution. The presence of HCN was determined from 0.05 grams of fresh leaf samples by the picric acid – filter paper technique. A gradation of 10 different color reactions (−), (±), and (+1 to +8) was used to compare the HCN reaction for each species. On the basis of potassium cyanide equivalents, each gram of fresh leaf material was estimated to contain an amount of HCN which varied between the different plants and accessions from 0.5 mg to 750 mg. Most of the Old World species were positive for HCN, whereas the reverse was true for the North American species. This would favor the previous separation of the North American species into a separate genus Hosackia. All of the n = 7 species have a greater concentration of HCN than the n = 6 species in both the Old and New World. None of the n = 6 speci...
The standard electrode potential of Ag/Ag2CrO4 and Ag/AgSCN electrodes in the ethanol–water system (with 0, 10, 30, 50, 70 and 0, 10, 30, 50, 70, 90, 100 wt.% of ethanol, respectively) has been determined vs. an Ag/AgCl electrode in a liquid-junction cell in the temperature range 278.15–338.15 K. Solvation thermodynamic functions of stoichiometric mixtures of (2H+, CrO42–) and (H+, SCN–) ions have been calculated on the basis of the temperature dependence of the emf. The Gibbs energy of solvation has been divided into ionic contributions using the reference electrolyte extrathermodynamic assumption. The addition of alcohol to water has been observed by Gibbs energy of transfer analysis to reduce the stability of the complexes formed between chromic acid ions and solvent molecules, but to improve this stability in the case of thiocyanic acid.
The synthesis of hydrocyanic acid from methane and ammonia on Rh and Ir wires was studied at temperatures varying between 1200 and 1500 K at one atmosphere. Activation energies and preexponential factors are reported.
A need exists for developing new therapies to improve cardiovascular outcomes in end-stage kidney disease. Three new areas that address novel pathophysiological mechanisms and/or therapeutic approaches toward cardiovascular events in chronic kidney disease patients include the use of an anti-inflammatory agent, the role of catalytic iron, and protein carbamylation. In preliminary studies, hydroxychloroquine, which has multiple anti-inflammatory properties, preserved vascular compliance for the aorta and major vessels, as well as reduced the extent of severity of atherosclerosis in ApoE−/− mice. The ability of iron to rapidly and reversibly cycle between 2 oxidation states makes iron potentially hazardous by enabling it to participate in the generation of powerful oxidant species. We have shown that high catalytic iron in the general population is associated with a 4-fold increase in prevalent cardiovascular disease (CVD), even after accounting for traditional risk factors. In addition, the highest levels of catalytic iron are present in dialysis patients and, more specifically, patients with prevalent CVD have several-fold higher catalytic iron levels compared with controls without CVD. These data suggest the utility of iron chelators for preventing and treating CVD in patients with chronic kidney disease and should be further investigated. Carbamylation of proteins results from nonenzymatic chemical modification by isocyanic acid derived from urea and an alternative route, the myeloperoxidase-catalyzed oxidation of thiocyanate. We have shown carbamylated low-density lipoprotein to have all the major biological effects relevant to atherosclerosis including endothelial cell injury, increased expression of cell adhesion molecules, and vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation. In 2 separate clinical studies, plasma levels of carbamylated protein independently predicted an increased risk of CVD and death.
The effect of harvesting at 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80 and 90 days after sowing (DAS) on the hydrocyanic acid potential (HCN-p) of two multicut (SSG-59-3 and X-988), two single cut (Pusa Chari-1 and IS 4776) and three dual purpose forage sorghum cultivars (CSV-10, Vidisha 60-1 and Chitta Jonna) was studied during kharif (rainy season 2005), rabi (post-rainy season 2005) and summer (2006) in pot experiments. The HCN-p tended to decrease with increase in plant age in all the seasons. HCN-p was lowest in Chitta Jonna in kharif, IS 4776 in rabi and SSG-59-3 in summer while it was highest in CSV-10 in all the seasons. The appropriate growth period for determining cultivar differences in HCN-p appeared to be 30 DAS in kharif and 40 DAS in both rabi and summer. At these plant ages in the respective seasons cultivar differences in HCN-p were prominent. Seasonal differences in HCN-p were significant and the highest was in summer followed by rabi and was lowest in kharif. Forage sorghum contained safe levels of HCNp (<200 ppm) at the recommended plant ages at harvest during kharif and rabi (45-60 DAS). Dual purpose sorghum also had safe levels of HCNp at the recommended plant ages at harvest for use as single cut forage during kharif and rabi seasons (60–90 DAS), with the exception of CSV-10, which had safe levels only at or after 80 DAS in rabi. But when summer grown, the safe plant age for harvesting the first cut of multicut sorghum was 60 DAS or later, whereas single cut and dual purpose sorghums, were not safe for feeding to cattle even up to 90 DAS in this season, with the exception of Chitta Jonna which showed safe levels at the recommended harvest stage.
[Objective] The aim was to establish hydrogen cyanide flow analysis module in cigarette smoke.[Method] The flow analysis module was established based on tobacco industrial standard YC/T 253-2008 Determination of Hydrogen Cyanide in Cigarette Smoke by Using Continuous Flow Method.The module was adopted to measure content of hydrocyanic acid.[Result] The results showed that RSD is 2.50%,recovery rate is 96.7%-97.9%.[Conclusion] The module could meet test needs.
Seven chick bioassays were conducted with 600 one-week-old White Leghorn cockerels to determine the zero nitrogen-corrected metabolisable energy (MEn) values of twenty-three Sri Lankan-produced feedstuffs. The MEn values (MJ kg−1 dry matter) of the feedstuffs were: maize 14.28, sorghum 14.42, broken rice 12.35, rough rice 9.21, rice bran grade I 14.28, rice bran grade II 9.30, wheat feed flour 9.31, wheat bran 7.66, undetoxified cassava root meal 13.38, detoxified cassava root meal 15.92, coconut oil meal 7.46, sesame oil meal 11.48, rubber seed meal 11.25, kapok seed meal 8.75, urd bean 12.68, cassava leaf meal 7.82, local fish meal 11.97, skim milk powder 10.41, meat and bone meal 8.02, sugar filter-press mud 8.85, cocoa husk meal 7.46, Mango seed kernel meal 10.84, and tea refuse 6.02. The difference between the MEn values of undetoxified and detoxified cassava root meal indicate that hydrocyanic acid interferes with energy utilisation in poultry.
Guarding against the introduction of diseases from other countries is a responsibility of the Division of Foreign Quarantine of the U. S. Public Health Service. The Service has been charged with this duty since 1798. Control measures against Aedes aegypti mosquitoes became an accepted Public Health procedure on ships with the discovery in 1900 of the relationship of this mosquito with the yellow fever virus. However, it was not until the early days of international air travel that Public Health quarantine entomology as such, had its inception. Even in these early days epidemiologists of the Service foresaw an era in which there would be increased dangers to our country through the possible importation of insects from foreign countries by airplane. Their realization of this potential threat to our country led to the first reported studies of insects on aircraft. Griffitts (1931) inspected 102 aircraft arriving at Miami, Florida, from Central and South America and the Caribbean area during 1931 and reported the occurrence of 29 mosquitoes on 21 planes. This observation posed a logical question. Can insects survive at the high altitudes and cold temperatures in which planes fly? Subsequent tests by Griffitts (1933) demonstrated the ability of mosquitoes to survive for approxiinately 80 hours of flying time and at 14,000 feet altitude in these prototypes of the modern plane. Carnahan (1938) reported on insects recovered from aircraft at Miami, Florida, while Welch (1939) was the only worker up to that time to pay any attention to insects other than those of medical importance. Denning et al. (1947) and Hughes (1949) have admirably summarized the findings made by Public Health Service inspectors. Since those days much has been said of the accidental transport of insects in aircraft. Observations made today indicate that live insects, including mosquitoes, are frequently found on the modern planes which fly at higher altitudes and often for greater lengths of time than the early planes. The knowledge that mosquitoes were able to survive at the altitudes these early planes sometimes reached in their international flights was cause for deep concern. It could have been pigeon-holed as just another observation in the gathering of scientific information, but, remembering the not too far removed outbreak of yellow fever in New Orleans, our officials were not anxious to allow foreign mosquitoes access to our shores. The development of heated and pressurized cabins further increased the possibilities of transporting live mosquitoes. Consequently, studies were commenced to find the best way to prevent these insects from establishing themselves in this country. The earliest control measures made use of hydrocyanic acid gas fumigations, rotenone dusts and formaldehyde sprays, but none of these were
The invention discloses a new antibody fluorescence labeling method based on hydrophobic charge induction magnetic microspheres, which comprises the specific steps of (1) taking a proper amount of antibodies to be labeled, dissolving in incubation buffer solution, and adding the hydrophobic charge induction magnetic microspheres for adsorbing the antibodies; (2) under the assistance of an external magnetic field, washing adsorbed antibodies with the incubation buffer solution and calculating the adsorption capacity of the antibodies; (3) according to the adsorption capacity of the antibodies, adding a proper amount of isothiocyanic acid fluorescein, oscillating and mixing the isothiocyanic acid fluorescein and the microspheres, and labeling; (4) after labeling, washing and removing unreacted isothiocyanic acid fluorescein under the assistance of an external magnetic field, adjusting solution pH to be acidic, and desorbing and recycling the labeled antibodies. The characteristic of the developed method is that the efficient new antibody fluorescence labeling method is designed.
Abstract 14 N chemical shifts for isothiocyanate derivatives of silicon and germanium have been measured. J (NH) was observed for isocyanic acid but not for isothiocyanic acid in the 14 N NMR spectrum.
This invention discloses a metal cleaning agent with high effect and multi-functions, which uses phosphoric acid and zinc oxide as A material, water, tripoly phosphate, thiourea, and uses tartaric acid, C6H12N4, butanone, thiocyanic acid natrium, triethanolamine, fluorin sodium metasilicate, hydrofluoric acid, lemon acid, nitrous acid natrium, op-10, JFC and alcohol as B material, the main character is that after A material is mixed by a certain weight ratio, it combines B material with a certain weight ratio. This invention combines oil removing, dirty removing, rust preventing, deactivation, inhibiting, phosphate 8 in 1 functions together, which has well cleaning effect, and the work surface quality is high, the dealing technology is simple, the cost is lower.
Several studies have shown that treatment with alkalis improves the nutritional value of high tannin sorghum Mohammed & Ali, 1992; Nyachoti et al., 1998; Okot & Mujabi, 2001) . In an alkaline medium it is thought that tannins polymerize, forming non-toxic compounds. The effectiveness of the alkali treatment depends on the type and concentration of the alkali and the prevailing conditions . Wood ash, an alkaline substance (Etiegni & Campbell, 1991) , is used by the local people of south-western Uganda to reduce tannins in the red, bird resistant sorghum that is cultivated in that region. This traditional technology involves soaking sorghum grain in wood ash slurry and then allowing it to germinate for four days. The resulting material is low in tannin but contains hydrocyanic acid and the treatment results in up to a 20% loss in dry matter (DM) . In the present study this traditional technology was modified to reduce the negative effects associated with it. The modification involved the use of wood ash extract instead of wood ash slurry and a short germination period. The feeding value of the treated sorghum grain was assessed using broiler chicks.
Abstract The mechanisms of urea decomposition into isocyanic acid (HNCO) and ammonia (NH 3 ) in gas-phase and on the ZnO ( 1 0 1 ¯ 0 ) surface have been investigated by using density functional theory. In gas-phase, urea decomposes into HNCO and NH 3 in one step, which is a concert reaction. However, on the ZnO ( 1 0 1 ¯ 0 ) surface urea is found to decompose gradually, in which urea molecule first adsorbs on the ZnO surface, followed by the N H and the N C bonds breaking, and eventually rebinds to form NH 3 and HNCO. The presence of ZnO ( 1 0 1 ¯ 0 ) surface decreases the energy barrier of urea decomposition. And as the intense interaction between the surface and urea, urea decomposition is exothermic by 48.0 kcal/mol on the surface, which is endothermic by 22.0 kcal/mol in the gas-phase.
The Fourier transform infrared and Fourier transform Raman spectra of isocyanic acid 1-naphthyl ester (C(11)H(7)NO) [ICANE] are recorded in solid phase, the harmonic vibrational frequencies, infrared intensities, Raman activities, bond length, bond angle and dihedral angle are calculated by HF and DFT methods by using different basis set. A detailed vibrational spectral analysis has been carried out and assignments of observed fundamental bands have been proposed on basis of peak positions and relative intensities. The scaled theoretical frequencies showed very good agreement with experimental values. A detailed interpretations of the infrared and Raman spectra of isocyanic acid 1-naphthyl ester are reported, the theoretical spectra for infrared and Raman spectrum of title molecule have been constructed. The effect due to the substitutions of isocyanato group is also investigated. A study on the electronic properties, such as excitation energies and wavelengths, are performed with different solvent by time-dependent DFT (TD-DFT) approach. HOMO and LUMO energies are calculated that these energies show charge transfer occurs within the molecule.
The aim of this study was to determine the impact of the type of drying ::: treatment of roots and leaves of bitter cassava ( Manihot esculenta ), ::: on its chemical composition. The treatments were: T1: yard drying (PS); ::: T2: drying on room with glass roof (CS); T3: Stove (E) and T4: on ::: drying tunnel (TS). Chemical analyses and hydrocyanic acid (HCN, free ::: and total) concentration were determined. In the roots, MS, the total ::: quantity of starch and of sugars reducers were not affected ::: (P>0.05); while the percentage of total sugars increased with the ::: drying temperature in TS and E (8.56 and 7.29, respectively), with ::: differences (P<0.01) in CS and PS (5.43 and 5.72, respectively). The ::: determination of MS, PC, and FND in the leaves did not show ::: differences. The concentration of total HCN decreased from 132.73 ppm ::: in fresh roots to 98.01 86.44 76.09, and 63,63 ppm for PS, CS, E, and ::: TS, respectively. In the leaves the concentration diminished from ::: 135.59 ppm to 65.19 ppm (PS); 54.06 ppm (CS), 45.17 ppm (E) and 31.32 ::: ppm (TS). It is concluded that high temperatures and fast dehydration ::: are excellent to lower the concentration of HCN for roots and leaves. ::: However, some deterioration of the quality of the root occur due to the ::: increment in the quantity of total sugars.
The content of cyanogenetic glucosides in West Indian and other pulses was estimated by the release of hydrocyanic acid on hydrolysis. In the varieties of phaseolus lunatus (lima bean) examined, the CN content was under 20mg. per cent, and not of the order previously known to cause acute poisoning. Trace amounts were found in 5 other species, and a high content was found in a variety of vicia sativa seeds (common vetch). A comparison of hydrolytic procedures in ph. lunatus showed that whereas the cyanogenetic glucoside is stable on cooking the intact bean, neither human saliva nor dilute hydrochloric acid at 37oC was effective in releasing free HCN from beans crushed after cooking. Animal feeding tests of crushed uncooked beans showed that the toxicity of these varieties was unrelated to their CN content. Severe 'toxicity' of ph. vulgaris (kidney bean, red pea) in rats and guinea pigs was mainly, if not entirely, due to unpalatability, causing starvation. Palatability was much improved by cooking. Absorption and utilisation of other species were good when fed to rats, even at 50 per cent level. There was some evidence of pancreatic hypertrophy and of impaired absorption or utilization of vigna sp. (black-eye pea) and cajanus cajan (gungo pea) in guinea pigs. No neurological lesions were detected in rats in feeding tests of up to 6 month's duration (AU)
The juice of Sclerocarya birrea fruit was evaluated for its nutritional and antinutritional compositions. The results show that the total solid, ash, crude protein, crude lipid, available ::: carbohydrate and energy value are 12.32g/100cm3, 5.05%, 3.31%, 1.30%, 90.35% and 386.34kcal/100g dry weight respectively. The results of minerals content indicate that, the juice is a good source of both macro and micro elements with calcium as predominant. The 100 cm3 juice contained reasonable amount of pectin (2.10g), vitamin C (0.49g), glucose (0.21g) and sucrose (0.76g). Concentrations of hydrocyanic acid, nitrate, oxalate, and phytate are lower than the reference toxic ::: standard level. The juice of the plant could have a potential nutritional uses.
The present invention relates to a derivative of hydrocyanic acid and a biomass production process thereof by reacting ammonia on methane or methanol, optionally in the presence of air and / or oxygen, characterized in that at least one reagent selected from ammonia, methane and methanol is obtained from biomass.
Abstract Cyanogenic glycosides are found in a diverse group of plants and are metabolized into thiocyanate by the intestines and liver. Conversion of plant derived thiocyanates into cyanide and isocyanic acid occurs by the activity of neutrophil-derived enzyme myeloperoxidase. Therefore, increased intake of cyanogenic glycoside rich plant based diet may lead to increased isocyanic acid induced protein carbamylation in chronic inflammatory states (increased myeloperoxidase activity). As there is a close relationship between non-enzymatic post-translational modification and protein function, carbamylation induced structural changes also affect the functions of proteins. Carbamylation induced structural alterations of proteins have recently drawn a great attention in the current literature, especially regarding the alterations of proteins with long half-life such as type I collagen, elastin, α-crystallin. We hypothesize that a plant-based natural diet, rich in cyanogenic glycosides, may have unintended consequences on native protein structure/function in individuals with chronic inflammatory diseases such as chronic kidney and rheumatological diseases because of the higher rate of transformation of plant derived thiocyanates into isocyanic acid by the increased activity of neutrophil-derived enzyme myeloperoxidase. Regulation of myeloperoxidase activity or moderation of cyanogenic glycoside rich diet might be important in the prevention/modulation of dangerous protein carbamylation process, especially in this patient group.
Investigating how formamide forms in the interstellar medium is a hot topic in astrochemistry, which can contribute to our understanding of the origin of life on Earth. We have constructed a QM/MM model to simulate the hydrogenation of isocyanic acid on amorphous solid water surfaces to form formamide. The binding energy of HNCO on the ASW surface varies significantly between different binding sites, we found values between ∼0 and 100 kJ mol−1. The barrier for the hydrogenation reaction is almost independent of the binding energy, though. We calculated tunneling rate constants of H + HNCO → NH2CO at temperatures down to 103 K combining QM/MM with instanton theory. Tunneling dominates the reaction at such low temperatures. The tunneling reaction is hardly accelerated by the amorphous solid water surface compared to the gas phase for this system, even though the activation energy of the surface reaction is lower than the one of the gas-phase reaction. Both the height and width of the barrier affect the tunneling rate in practice. Strong kinetic isotope effects were observed by comparing to rate constants of D + HNCO → NHDCO. At 103 K we found a KIE of 231 on the surface and 146 in the gas phase. Furthermore, we investigated the gas-phase reaction NH2 + H2CO → NH2CHO + H and found it unlikely to occur at cryogenic temperatures. The data of our tunneling rate constants are expected to significantly influence astrochemical models.
Donkoh, A., Kese, A.G. and Atuahene, C.C., 1990. Chemical composition of chaya leaf meal (Cnidoscolus aconitifolius (Mill.) Johnston) and availability of its amino acids to chicks. Anita. Feed Sci. Technol., 30: 155-162. Data are presented on the chemical composition of chaya leaf meal (CLM) (Cnidoscolus aconitifolius (Mill.) Johnston) and the availability of its amino acids to chicks. The crude protein, fat, ash, crude fibre and metabolizable energy contents were 296.2 g kg- 1 dry matter (DM), 40.7 g kg-~ DM, 139.5 g kg-1 DM, 101.3 g kg-~ DM and 8.88 MJ kg-~ DM, respectively. CLM was relatively high in its content of calcium and iron. The sample contained anti-nutritional factors such as hydrocyanic acid and oxalate. No anti-tryptic activity was however detected in CLM. The amino acid composition of CLM indicates it is a good source of lysine and a fair source of sulphur-containing amino acids, cystine and methionine. The overall amino acid availability was moderately high (84.0%). With the exception of methionine and cystine, the amino acids in CLM had availability values > 80% and could therefore be regarded as moderately highly available.
A total of 137 actinomycetes cultures, isolated from 25 different herbal vermicomposts, were characterized for their antagonistic potential against Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. ciceri (FOC) by dual-culture assay. Of the isolates, five most promising FOC antagonistic isolates (CAI-24, CAI-121, CAI-127, KAI-32 and KAI-90) were characterized for the production of siderophore, cellulase, protease, hydrocyanic acid (HCN), indole acetic acid (IAA) and antagonistic potential against Rhizoctonia bataticola, which causes dry root rot in chickpea (three strains viz. RB-6, RB-24 and RB-115) and sorghum (one strain). All of the five FOC antagonistic isolates produced siderophore and HCN, four of them (except KAI-90) produced IAA, KAI-32 and KAI-90 produced cellulase and CAI-24 and CAI-127 produced protease. In the dual-culture assay, three of the isolates, CAI-24, KAI-32 and KAI-90, also inhibited all three strains of R. bataticola in chickpea, while two of them (KAI-32 and KAI-90) inhibited the tested strain in sorghum. When the FOC antagonistic isolates were evaluated further for their antagonistic potential in the greenhouse and wilt-sick field conditions on chickpea, 45–76% and 4–19% reduction of disease incidence were observed, respectively compared to the control. The sequences of 16S rDNA gene of the isolates CAI-24, CAI-121, CAI-127, KAI-32 and KAI-90 were matched with Streptomyces tsusimaensis, Streptomyces caviscabies, Streptomyces setonii, Streptomyces africanus and an identified species of Streptomyces, respectively using the BLAST searching. This study indicated that the selected actinomycete isolates have the potential for biological control of Fusarium wilt disease in chickpea.
Bark pellets have been pyrolyzed in a ﬂuidized bed reactor at temperatures between 700 and 1000C. Identiﬁed ::: nitrogen-containing species were hydrogen cyanide (HCN), ammonia (NH3), and isocyanic acid (HNCO). Quantiﬁcation of HCN and to some extent of NH3 was unreliable at 700 and 800C due to low concentrations. HNCO could not be quantiﬁed with any accuracy at any temperature for bark, due to the low concentrations found. Since most of the nitrogen in biomass is bound in proteins, various protein-rich model compounds were pyrolyzed with the aim of ﬁnding features that are protein-speciﬁc, making conclusions regarding the model compounds applica-ble for biomass fuels in general. The model compounds used were a whey protein isolate, soya beans, yellow peas, ::: and shea nut meal. The split between HCN and NH3 depends on the compound and temperature. It was found that the HCN/NH3 ratio is very sensitive to temperature and increases with increasing temperature for all compounds, including bark. Comparing the ratio for the different compounds at a ﬁxed temperature, the ratio was found to decrease with decreasing release of volatile nitrogen. The temperature dependence implies that heating rate and ::: thereby particle size affect the split between HCN and NH3. For whey, soya beans, and yellow peas, HNCO was also quantiﬁed. It is suggested that most HCN and HNCO are produced from cracking of cyclic amides formed as primary pyrolysis products. The dependence of the HNCO/HCN ratio on the compound is fairly small, but the temperature dependence of the ratio is substantial, decreasing with increasing temperature. The release of nitrogen-containing species does not seem to be greatly affected by the other constituents of the fuel, and proteins appear to be suitable model compounds for the nitrogen in biomass.
The reaction of atomic hydrogen with isocyanic acid (HNCO) to produce molecular hydrogen and the NCO radical, H+HNCO→H 2 +NCO (3a) and the thermal dissociation reaction NCO+Ar→N+CO+Ar (4) have been studied in shock-heated mixtures of HNCO dilute in argon. Quantitative time histories of the NCO radical were measured behind the shock waves using cw, narrow-linewidth laser absorption at 440 nm. The second-order rate coefficients of reactions (3a) and (4) were determined to be k 3a =5.5×10 14 exp(−13.700/ T , K) ( f =0.50, F =1.5) T =2260−3250 K k 4 =2.2×10 14 exp(−27,200/ T , K) ( f =0.40, F =1.8) T =2370−3050 K cm 3 mol −1 s −1 , where f and F define the lower and upper uncertainty limits, respectively. The results for reaction (3a) were combined with the lower-temperature results from two previous studies for the reverse reaction (−3a), resulting in the expression: k 3a =9.0×10 7 T 1.66 exp(−7000/ T , K) cm 3 mol −1 s −1 , T =591−3250 K The experimental results for k 4 were used to calculate values of the collision efficiency ( β x ) and threshold energy ( E 0 ) for reaction (4) using unimolecular rate constant theory: β x =0.020 (−65%.+100%) E 0 =61.4±1.5 kcal/mol
Among all alcohol liqueurs, brandies from drupaceous plants are characterized with the highest level of hydro cyanic acid, benzaldehyde and ethylcarbamate. In fruit brandies ethylcarbamate mainly originates from hydro cyanic acid during the processes of alcohol fermentation of crushed fruit and its preservation, distillation and ripening of the brandy. Hydro cyanic acid and benzaldehyde arise from the hydrolysis of amygdaline that is found exist in the heart of fruit stones and seeds, as well as from the hydrolysis of prunasine from the skin and flesh of drupaceous plants. The content of amygdaline and prunazine depends on the type of fruit, which corresponds to the potential content of hydro cyanic acid and benzaldehyde in the brandy that corresponds the stoichiometric ratio 1:3.94. The content of the aldehydes: furfural and benzaldehyde in plum brandy, strong plum brandy, young brandy, of domestic production in the various regions of Serbia were analyzed in this paper.
E N Z O O T I C E Q U I N E C Y S T I T I S A N D ATAXIA The ingestion of fresh summer annual forages of the genus Sorghum (Johnson grass, Sudan grass and Common Sorghum) are the most commonly cited causes of equine cystitis and ataxia. Arrow grass, wild black cherry, chokecherry, pincherry, flax and the sorghums all contain cyanogenetic glycosides that are hydrolyzed to hydrocyanic acid during digestion. These plants are most toxic during rapid growth and immediately following a freeze. Heavy nitrate fertilization, wilting, trampling and disease may increase the level ofcyanogenetic glycosides. Urinary incontinence and posterior ataxia are clinically manifested following the ingestion of plants with cyanogenetic glycosides. There is axon dcgeneration and demylination at the posterior end of the spinal cord. ~-23 The condition is fatal. Horses should not graze fresh plants of the genus sorghum. If hay is properly cured and stored, it is safe for consumption.
The cyclization of N-acyl-N'-arylureas in polyphosphoric acid has been reinvestigated. The product is not only the 4-substituted quinazolin-2(1H)-one as reported, but also contains the 2-acylaniline in major proportions. Two minor products have also been isolated. At 80o, an intermediate has been detected, the properties of which are consistent with it being the corresponding 2-acylphenyl- urea. Acyl ureas with strongly electron-withdrawing acyl groups form major amounts of the corresponding anilide by the formal loss of cyanic acid. The application of this reaction to the synthesis of quinazolinylphthalides has been investigated.
The nutrient composition of dehusked Dioclea reflexa seed was studied. Results of proximate composition indicated a low moisture content (10.02 ± 0.27%) and high crude protein content (44.43 ± 0.45%). Ash, crude fat, crude fibre and carbohydrate content were 3.07 ± 0.05, 1459 ± 0.36, 0.98 ± 0.02 and 26.91 ± 0.18% respectively. Nutritionally valuable mineral analysis showed that D. reflexa is rich in potassium and phosphorus (496.20 ± 0.50 and 420.40 ± 0.20 mg/100 g respectively), and very low in copper and manganese (1.45 ± 0.04 and 1.64 ± 0.02 mg/100 g respectively). Eighteen amino acids were detected in varying concentration in the seeds, and among the essential amino acid assayed, leucine, with a chemical score of 81.14%, appeared to be the most limiting as others had scores above 100%, all compared with the NRC reference protein pattern. Three toxic substances were determined: phytic acid was 318.40 ± 0.30 mg/100 g; tannin 151.80 ± 0.20 mg/100 g; and hydrocyanic acid 2.10 ± 0.05 mg/100 g. D. reflexa is therefore a cheap source of animal nutrients which has been hitherto underutilized.
The prepared anti-diethylstilbestrol(DES) antibody was used to coat ELISA plates,and isothiocyanic acid fluorescein was used as the fluorescence probe.Based on double-antibody sandwich immune response model,a method for the determination of DES in chicken by fluoroimmunoassay was described.Linear relationship between values of fluorescence intensity and logarithm of mass concentration(lgρ) of DES was obtained in the range of 0.1-1.0×103μg·L-1 with detection limit(3S/N) of 50 ng·L-1.The proposed method was applied to the analysis of samples of chicken,giving values of recovery in the range of 85.5%-113.8%.
The authors have already given a preliminary account of this investigation and have shown that the poisonous property of this Egyptian vetch is due to the prussic acid which is formed when the plant is crushed with water, owing to the hydrolytic action of an enzyme, lotase, on a glucoside, lotusin, which is broken up into hydrocyanic acid, dextrose, and lotoflavin, a yellow colouring matter. The authors have continued the investigation with the object of ascertaining the properties and chemical constitution of lotoflavin and of lotusin, and also of studying the properties of lotase in relation to those of other hydrolytic enzymes.
The juice of Sclerocarya birrea fruit was evaluated for its nutritional and antinutritional compositions. The results show that the total solid, ash, crude protein, crude lipid, available carbohydrate and energy value are 12.32g/100cm 3 , 5.05%, 3.31%, 1.30%, 90.35% and 386.34kcal/100g dry weight respectively. The results of minerals content indicate that, the juice is a good source of both macro and micro elements with calcium as predominant. The 100 cm 3 juice contained reasonable amount of pectin (2.10g), vitamin C (0.49g), glucose (0.21g) and sucrose (0.76g). Concentrations of hydrocyanic acid, nitrate, oxalate, and phytate are lower than the reference toxic standard level. The juice of the plant could have a potential nutritional uses.
A total of 137 actinomycetes cultures, isolated from 25 different herbal vermicomposts, were characterized for their antagonistic potential against Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. ciceri (FOC) by dual-culture assay. Of the isolates, five most promising FOC antagonistic isolates were characterized for the production of siderophore, cellulase, protease, hydrocyanic acid (HCN), indole acetic acid (IAA) and antagonistic potential against Rhizoctonia bataticola, which causes dry root rot in chickpea (three strains viz. RB-6, RB-24 and RB-115) and sorghum (one strain). All of the five FOC antagonistic isolates produced siderophore and HCN, four of them (except KAI-90) produced IAA, KAI-32 and KAI-90 produced cellulase and CAI-24 and CAI-127 produced protease. In the dual-culture assay, three of the isolates, CAI-24, KAI-32 and KAI-90, also inhibited all three strains of R. bataticola in chickpea, while two of them (KAI-32 and KAI-90) inhibited the lonely strain in sorghum. When the FOC antagonistic isolates were evaluated further for their antagonistic potential in the greenhouse and wilt-sick field conditions on chickpea, 45-76% and 4-19% reduction of disease incidence were observed, respectively compared to the control. The sequences of 16S rDNA gene of the isolates CAI-24, CAI-121, CAI-127, KAI-32 and KAI-90 were matched with Streptomyces tsusimaensis, S. caviscabies, S. setonii, S.
Bark pellets have been pyrolyzed in a fluidized bed reactor at temperatures between 700 and 1000 • C. Identified nitrogen-containing species were hydrogen cyanide (HCN), ammonia (NH 3 ), and isocyanic acid (HNCO). Quantification of HCN and to some extent of NH 3 was unreliable at 700 and 800 • C due to low concentrations. HNCO could not be quantified with any accuracy at any temperature for bark, due to the low concentrations found. Since most of the nitrogen in biomass is bound in proteins, various protein-rich model compounds were pyrolyzed with the aim of finding features that are protein-specific, making conclusions regarding the model compounds applicable for biomass fuels in general. The model compounds used were a whey protein isolate, soya beans, yellow peas, and shea nut meal. The split between HCN and NH 3 depends on the compound and temperature. It was found that the HCN/NH 3 ratio is very sensitive to temperature and increases with increasing temperature for all compounds, including bark. Comparing the ratio for the different compounds at a fixed temperature, the ratio was found to decrease with decreasing release of volatile nitrogen. The temperature dependence implies that heating rate and thereby particle size affect the split between HCN and NH 3 . For whey, soya beans, and yellow peas, HNCO was also quantified. It is suggested that most HCN and HNCO are produced from cracking of cyclic amides formed as primary pyrolysis products. The dependence of the HNCO/HCN ratio on the compound is fairly small, but the temperature dependence of the ratio is substantial, decreasing with increasing temperature. The release of nitrogen-containing species does not seem to be greatly affected by the other constituents of the fuel, and proteins appear to be suitable model compounds for the nitrogen in biomass.
I am greatly indebted to the Fumigators Chemical Company, Inc., New York, who have placed at my disposal a generous supply of liquid hydrocyanic acid.
(2) The discovery by Fowler and myself (1911) th a t th e characteristic visual afterglow bands belong to the first positive group of nitrogen. No one before or since has ever doubted th a t these first positive bands are due to nitrogen and nothing b u t nitrogen. I t would now adays m ake complete havoc of the successful theory of band spectra to a ttrib u te them to a n y thing else. (3) I found th a t the glowing gas reacted w ith cold m ercury to form nitrides, and w ith hydrocarbons to form hydrocyanic acid, chemically detected (1911) . I could see no place for anything b u t nitrogen in this. However, the next point appeared to p u t a different aspect on the m atter. (4) I t was found by Comte (1913) and by Tiede and Domcke (1913) th a t the glow could, under certain conditions, be reduced to little or nothing, when oxygen was perfectly removed, and th a t it could be restored by th e intentional admission of oxygen. (5) I found (S tru tt 1915) th e restoration of the glow could be achieved by the admission of a trace of gases other th a n oxygen, such as m ethane or hydrogen sulphide. This showed th a t it was incorrect to regard the phenom ena as necessarily dependent on some reaction between oxygen and nitrogen. I regarded them as conditioned in some way by a catalytic action of one of th e im purities introduced, and thought th a t this probably influenced the discharge mechanism which made the gas active.
Due to the amygdalin content, especially in stones, sour cherry liqueurs should be prepared from partially pitted cherries or in a short period of extraction time to avoid the presence of excessive amount of cyanogenic glycosides in the liqueur. According to Sokół-Łętowska [12] the content of HCN decreased 5-10-fold during prolonged storage. Leaving a small amount of kernels in the solution leads to release of hydrocyanic acid from stones and imparts a gentle bitter almond flavor to the beverage.
Food borne diseases are of public health importance. A food poisoning incident occurred on 24th October 2010 amongst 22 mourners who had consumed porridge one day after the funeral rites of a child in Mubachi Sub-Location of Suba West Division in Migori District, south western Kenya. An investigation of the incident was conducted with only two objectives in mind, i.e. (1) to document the poisoning incident for learning and for future reference and (2) to deter- mine the causative factors so as to recommend appropriate public health interventions. Both patient and clinician interviews were conducted. A total of seven patients were interviewed. Patients denied any knowledge of environmental contamination within or without the homestead. They also denied care-less handling of tobacco farming pesticides. The investigation es- tablished that the water used in preparing the porridge had been left uncovered on the verandah overnight and it had devel- oped a brownish discoloration. The porridge was prepared from a mixture of cassava and sorghum flour in the ordinary way and mourners had consumed between 250ml-500ml in clean plastic cups. The victims developed signs and symptoms about 30-60 minutes after consumption. Children were affected first. They collapsed, vomited, complained of abdominal pains and had diarrhea. Other signs and symptoms occurring in both adults and children were fever, generalized body weakness, and profuse sweating. The frequency distribution of signs and symp-toms showed 63% generalized body weak- ness, 50% vomiting, 27% nausea, 23% abdominal pain, 14% diarrhea, 9% cough and 5% restlessness. The attack rate was 100%. The suspected cause of poisoning was either hydrocyanic acid in cassava flour or pesticide contamination of the water used in preparing the porridge. In order to arrive at a differential diagnosis, an internet-based literature search was con-ducted to provide an overview of the signs and symptoms associated with the suspected toxicological agents. On this basis, hydrocyanic acid, organochlorine and pyrethroid pesticides were ruled out. There was a near-perfect match between the signs and symptoms of the poisoning to classical signs and symptoms of organophosphate poisoning in the literature. We conclude that the poisoning agent was an organophosphate. Though the victims denied any knowledge of environmen- tal contamination, we strongly believe that the water used in preparing the porridge had been chemically contaminated ei- ther by careless handling of pesticides or foul play. We recommend that since the affected area and indeed the rest of Migo- ri district are tobacco growing areas, there is need for mass health education on the safe handling and disposal of pesticide products as these are widely used. Pesticide dispensing outlets should provide also pesticide safety education to customers on each pesticide sold to encourage safe use and handling.
With an increase in fire accidents,smoke inhalation of carbon monoxide and hydrocyanic acid has become the main reason of cyanide poisoning nowadays.Hydroxocobalamin is an intravenous antidote of known and suspected cyanide poisoning,which has the unique action mechanism of direct tightly binding cyanide ions.It does not need the participation of hemoglobin during the detoxification process,and thereby does not lower the oxygen-carrying capacity of victim′s blood.Therefore,hydroxocobalamin is quite suitable for pre-hospital use among smoke inhalation victims in fire.Recent progress in mechanism,bioactivities,pharmacokinetics,safety and clinical efficacy of hydroxocobalamin is briefly reviewed in this paper.
Background At present one of most important strategic challenges in modernising the system of higher education in Ukraine is providing high quality education to pharmacists in order to satisfy the worldwide needs. Therefore improving the higher education system and designing new conceptual directions for its development on the basis of analytical marking and strategic approaches are very important for those wishing to study pharmacy. One of the new concepts we need to introduce is ‘Toxicological chemistry’. Nowadays people live in the conditions of toxicological strain; therefore we have an important task to give the complete, systematic and accessible knowledge of ‘Toxicological chemistry’ to the future pharmacists. Purpose To assist schools of pharmacy in their quality assurance and efforts to improve. To implement new pedagogical, psychological, statistical, chemical, analytical and biochemical methods into the study of ‘Toxicological chemistry’. Ukraine is also realigning its higher education system to bring in the Bologna System. Materials and methods Testing is the most important modern diagnostic and control instrument used to evaluate students’ activities under the new modular credits system. The second most important instrument is a complex of principles used to approach studying in this course such as ‘general-to-specific and specific-to-general’ and ‘from simple to complex, from complex to simple’, ‘synthesis and analysis of information’, ‘visualisation of toxicological processes on the new schemes’, ‘on-line’ work. The third important instrument is the connexion with modern sciences. All these instruments are provided by a modular credit-based educational system. Results As a result of the evaluation a report has been written, a new course has been designed “Toxicological chemistry” and new book for students of the same name (2012–2013). The course is based on the modular credits system and recommendations of the European education system. For example: one of the most important classes of toxic substances being studied in the course is the class of ‘volatile’ poisons (aliphatic alcohols, aldehydes and ketones, hydrocyanic acid, phenols, carboxylic acids, etc). The definitive representatives of this class of ‘volatile’ poisons are methyl and ethyl alcohols. During the studying of biotransformation of methyl and ethyl alcohols in the human body, it is important to pay attention to the fact that their metabolic conversions are performed not only according to the well-known paths, but in complex interactions with the body. The main metabolite of methanol is the product of its oxidation by the alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) enzymes to formaldehyde, which is oxidised to formic acid under the influence of the oxidase enzymes, part of which is under the influence of decarboxylase enzymes breaks down into carbon monoxide (IV) and water. 90% of ethyl alcohol is oxidised by the alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) enzymes to acetic aldehyde, and then by the oxidase enzymes is oxidised to acetic acid or to carbon monoxide (IV) and water. Conclusions In the new course, books, lectures and lessons of “Toxicological chemistry” we describe any changes in the structure of drugs during the chemical reactions, metabolic processes and properties. We are examining the impact of the new initiative on the quality of the students’ knowledge. Thus, by studying the class representatives of ‘volatile’ poisons – methyl and ethyl alcohol – in the ‘Toxicological chemistry’ course, they are learning both about particular chemicals and general principles of metabolism. Testing is an important way of checking students’ knowledge. We aim to provide a high quality preparation for the future pharmacists on a course that meets international requirements. No conflict of interest.
This study undertakes to characterize through thermal analysis in dynamic conditions a wide range of building materials used for various types of insulation and presents for the first time a comparative analysis of their thermal stability. To this effect, the dynamic thermal analysis TG/DTG was applied. The results show a degradation resulting in one, two or three stages after a complex mechanism, with different mass loss, depending on the structure and atmosphere in which the thermal decomposition took place. The series of thermal stability for the analyzed insulation materials were also obtained. Since, in Romania, the emphasis has been laid lately on insulating the old buildings erected under the communist regime, which requires the large-scale use of extruded polystyrene wallboards, and since most of the windows have been replaced with double glazed ones and the gaps between the window frame and the wall are filled with waterproof flexible polyurethane foams, the second part of our research focused on the analysis of the thermal decomposition of these types of insulation materials. The TG-FTIR-MS technique applied to XPS1 polystyrene showed a high amount of styrene in the gas resulting from its thermal decomposition and traces of pentane frequently used as blowing agent. When we conducted thermal decomposition in the air, we found it released the following agents: carbon monoxide (which is predominant), carbon dioxide, styrene and benzene. Using differential scanning calorimetry the presence of hexabromocyclododecane (HBCD) used as flame retardant was noticed. The TG-MS-FTIR technique applied to the flexible polyurethane foam marked Foams1 revealed the presence of carbon dioxide (which predominated), hydrogen cyanide, acetonitrile, hydrochloric acid, isocyanic acid and nitrogen monoxide in the gases released by its thermal decomposition in the air.
Abstract The reaction between NH 3 and NO in excess CO over silica-supported platinum, palladium, and rhodium has been investigated for temperatures from 100 to 450 °C. As found previously for the corresponding reactions of H 2 /NO/CO mixtures, isocyanic acid (HNCO) is produced with each catalyst. With Pd/SiO 2 , the peak yield when NH 3 is used is 46% based on the total nitrogen converted and 55% based on the hydrogen taken from NH 3 , with the remaining hydrogen converted to water. The reaction over Pt/SiO 2 requires a somewhat higher temperature and is more efficient with a maximum HNCO yield of 70% based on nitrogen and 95% on hydrogen. The near-absence of water as a product correlates with the high activity of platinum for the production of HNCO from H 2 O/NO/CO mixtures, which in turn is driven by activity for the water–gas shift reaction. The peak yield of HNCO from NH 3 /NO/CO mixtures is much lower with Rh/SiO 2 (10% based on nitrogen), and, unlike the yield of the platinum and the palladium catalysts, it is less than that observed during the H 2 + NO + CO reaction (30%). In experiments using 15 NO and 14 NH 3 , the 15 N content of N 2 , HNCO, and the end nitrogen of N 2 O are similar, consistent with dissociation of both nitric oxide and ammonia to form a single surface pool of nitrogen atoms. However, neither dissociation is rapidly reversible, since there is little exchange of 14 N from ammonia into unreacted 15 NO, and significant formation of 15 NH 3 is confined to Pt/SiO 2 at temperatures where it could be formed by hydrolysis of product H 15 NCO. It is concluded that HNCO is formed by the rapid pick-up of surface hydrogen atoms by metal-bound NCO groups existing in equilibrium with N atoms and surrounding CO molecules. The trends in product distribution and in activity between the three metals can be rationalised in terms of competition between NO and CO for surface sites with CO favoured on Pt, NO favoured on Rh, and Pd exhibiting intermediate characteristics.
The electronic structure of the esters of the isothiocyanic acid is calculated in an iterative extended Huckel method. Contour diagrams of the valence electron density are given. The odour character of these molecules is discussed in terms of the electronic structure obtained and the theories of smell put forward by Amoore and Wright respectively.
The detection of carbamylated hemoglobin (CarHb) is known to be useful in determination of the chronicity of uremia. However, the time course of the in vivo reaction between isocyanic acid and terminal valine residues of the hemoglobin chain is not clearly defined. To assess the temporal relationship and reversibility of carbamylation, we prospectively measured CarHb as micrograms of valine hydantoin per gram of hemoglobin (microg VH/g Hb) by high-performance liquid chromatography in 37 patients with acute renal failure (ARF), 53 patients with chronic renal failure (CRF), and six patients with successful kidney transplant. Patients with ARF had a lower median CarHb concentration (53.2 microg VH/g Hb; range, 24.6 to 97.1 microg VH/g Hb) than those with CRF (115.0 microg VH/g Hb; range, 34.6 to 286.5 microg VH/g Hb; P < 0.01), but had a higher value (53.2 microg VH/g Hb; range, 24.6 to 97.1 microg VH/g Hb) than 31 normal controls (36.6 microg VH/g Hb; range, 19.9 to 62.9 microg VH/g Hb; P < 0.05). In patients with ARF, the CarHb concentration positively correlated with the number of days of illness (r = 0.74; P < 0.01). The patients with ARF of 10 or more days' duration had a higher CarHb concentration (68.7 microg VH/g Hb; range, 36.0 to 93.9 microg VH/g Hb) than those with a shorter duration of ARF (33.7 microg VH/g Hb; range, 24.6 to 55.8 microg VH/g Hb; P < 0.01) despite similar blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine values. However, they had a lower concentration of CarHb (68.7 microg VH/g Hb; range, 36.0 to 93.9 microg VH/g Hb) than CRF patients with comparable serum creatinine values (112.5 microg VH/g Hb; range, 34.6 to 286.5 microg VH/g Hb; P < 0.01). In patients with a kidney transplant, CarHb concentration declined by 19.7% (range, 12.3% to 35.6%) within 2 to 3 weeks after receiving the graft, while the level of hemoglobin increased by 25% (range, 4.0% to 46.6%) during the same period. Therefore, the total blood CarHb (CarHb x hemoglobin concentration) was not significantly changed. We concluded that the in vivo reaction of carbamylation of hemoglobin progressed during the period of uremia, and there might exist some irreversible preformed CarHb in advanced stages of CRF.
The effect of insect infestation of the cowpea legume Vigna unguiculata was investigated. Samples of the infested cowpeas with and without the infesting insects were analysed and compared with the uninfested cowpeas for possible variation in nutrients. ::: ::: Results showed increase in ash, crude protein and crude fibre content with infestation. Values for the infested samples (mg 100 g−1) were: ash, 3·70 ± 0·01; crude protein, 27·1 ± 0·80 and crude fibre, 3·30 ± 0·64, as against 3·40 ± 0·03 (ash), 23·6 ± 0·88 (crude protein) and 1·9 ± 0·01 (crude fibre) for the uninfested samples. ::: ::: The amino acid pattern showed that the levels of aspartic acid, threonine, serine, alanine, cysteine and isoleucine were not much affected by the infestation. Marked reduction in level was observed for lysine, glutamic acid, glycine, valine, methionine and leucine. Only arginine showed an increase in level with infestation. ::: ::: All the vitamins assayed showed decreases in levels with infestation. Values per 100 g sample were 14·6 ± 0·24 μg (carotenes), 0·91 ± 0·02 mg (thiamine), 0·17 ± 0·1 mg (riboflavin) for the uninfested samples and 8·40 ± 0·02 μg (carotenes), 0·41 ± 0·02 mg (thiamine) and 0·08 ± 0·03 mg (riboflavin) for the infested cowpeas. ::: ::: Toxic substances such as phytic acid, oxalates and tannins were higher in the infested cowpeas than in the uninfested. Hydrocyanic acid decreased with infestation.
Using 4-heptanone in the Ugi reaction, it is possible to prepare a peptide containing a single residue of dipropylglycine (Dpg) in modest yield, but attempts to form peptides containing contiguous Dpg residues were unsuccessful. Methods of extending Dpg-Dpg to higher homo-oligomers have been examined. Carboxyl extension of N-trifluoroacetyl (Tfa)-Dpg2 is possible through its oxazolin-5(4H)-one, but only as far as the tripeptide. However, amino extension of Dpg2-OBut by successive steps of addition of 2-trifluoromethyl-4,4-dipropyloxazolin-5 (4H)-one and N-deprotection allowed preparation of Tfa-Dpg6-OBut in good yield. Removal of the Tfa group from Dpg residues is only possible using sodium borohydride reduction under conditions which lead to partial reduction of the t-butyl esters of protein amino acids. The use of the N',N'-dibenzylhydrazide (DBH) group for C-protection, however, circumvents this problem. Direct regeneration of carboxyl from DBH is possible with bromine in acetonitrile, and catalytic reduction gives the free hydrazide. Tfa-Dpg--NHNH2 can be oxidatively coupled to Gly-OBut but not to Dpg-OBut. Tfa-Dpg3-N3 undergoes Curtius rearrangement in preference to peptide bond formation, and Dpg3-N3 eliminates isocyanic acid on heating to form N-(Dpg)2-heptylideneimine.
Comparative data are presented on the dispersal in rabbit warrens of four fumigant gases: chloropicrin, phosphine, hydrocyanic acid gas and carbon monoxide in exhaust gases from petrol engines. Investigations of the characteristics which affect their performance as warren fumigants are described. Factors affecting the success of warren fumigation are discussed.
The invention discloses a preparing method of microcapsule carriers for hepatitis B virus medicine. The preparing method includes the following steps that polystyrene is used as a microcapsule template and treated through a polyvinylpyrrolidone solution, a branched polyethyleneimine solution and a polyacrylic acid-isothiocyanic acid fluorescent agent solution, ethyl alcohol is added, the mixture is dispersed, subjected to ultrasonic treatment and centrifuged, and polyethyleneimine/(polyacrylic acid-isothiocyanic acid fluorescent agent/polyvinylpyrrolidone) particles, namely, PEI/(PAA-F/PVPON) particles are prepared. The microcapsule carriers prepared with the preparing method are convenient and easy to remove and low in requirement for the environment, and the morphological structure and the size of microcapsules can be effectively controlled.
The synthesis of dihydrocytosines 4 from 3-aminopropionitriles 1 has been broadened and the dihydrocytosines themselves have now been successfully converted to cytosines 9. Unsubstituted 3-(H, alkyl or aryl) aminopropionitriles (1, X = H) convert with cyanate to 1-(H, alkyl or aryl)-1-(2-cyanoethyl)ureas (2, X = H), which in turn easily cyclize with anhydrous strong acid or base to 1-(H, alkyl or aryl)-5,6-dihydrocytosines (4, X = H). The 1-arylaminopropionitriles (1, X = H) which are poorly reactive with cyanic acid combine readily with benzoylureas to form 3-benzoyl-1-(2-cyanoethyl)-1-arylureas (3, X = H). These benzoylureas likewise cyclize with strong acid or base but with simultaneous elimination of the benzoyl moiety to yield the 1-aryldihydrocytosines 4 (X = H). Amines have successfully been added to 2-chloroacrylonitrile to yield 2-chloro-3-(amino and substituted amino)propionitriles (1, X = Cl). These 2-chloropropionitriles also could be converted with cyanate or benzoylisocyanate to ureas and benzoylureas, respectively (1-(H or alkyl)-1-(2-chloro-2-cyanoethyl)ureas (2, X = Cl) or 1-(H or alkyl)-1-(2-chloro-2-cyanoethyl)-3-benzoylureas (3, X = Cl). The chlorine substituted ureas were unstable especially to base and to heat but with anhydrous acid were cyclized in high yield to 1-(H or alkyl)-5-chloro-5,6-dihydro-cytosines (4, X = Cl). Direct chlorination of unsubstituted dihydrocytosines 4 (X = H) did not afford these same 5-chlorodihydrocytosines 4 (X = Cl) under any conditions investigated. 1-Ethyl-5,6-dihydrocytosine (4b) as the cation (hydrobromide) is converted directly in good yield to 1-ethylcytosine hydrobromide (7) by bromine in nitrobenzene at 140-160° in a concomitant bromination dehydrobromination reaction. 1-(Alkyl or aryl)-5,6-dihydrocytosines (4, X = H) are halogenated at low temperature in the presence of base to form (N3 or N4)halogenodihydrocytosines (8, R = H). The N-chlorodihydrocytosines 8 are stable. The N-bromo and N-iodo compounds isomerize spontaneously to 5-halogeno-5,6-dihydrocytosines (4, X = Br, I; R = H). The 5-halogeno-5,6-dihydrocytosines 4 (X = Cl, Br, I) whether from cyclization or direct halogenation are readily dehydrohalogenated to the corresponding cytosines 9.
The different kinds of instruments including gas chromatography mass spectrum(GC-MS),infrared spec-troscopy(IR),nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometry(NMR)and thermo gravimetry-mass spectrum(TG-MS)inductively coupled plasma mass spectrum(ICP-MS)were introduced to research the components of the crystal mixture produced in an exhaust pipe of a diesel engine which can meet China stage Ⅳ emission standard with SCR catalyst.The result of dissolution experiments shows that crystal components are mainly organic and inorganic com-pounds.Color reaction test confirms that there are some compounds with two or more peptide linkages in the crystal mixture.Urea,triazine triol,biuret,1,2-hydrazinedicarboxamine,ethyl allophanate and imidodicarbonic acid diethyl ester are detected in the crystal by GC-MS,and free ammonia can be released by heating the crystal mixture.IR test result indicates that crystal mixture includes ammonium salt,secondary ammonium salt,nitro-group(-NO2),methyl-group(-CH3),methene-group(-CH2-),etc.NMR results further validate that double bond and methane bond exist in mixture compounds.Simultaneously,TG-MS experiments show that the molecular and ion groups of carbon,oxygen,nitrogen,amino,ammonia,hydrocyanic acid,cyanamide,isocyanic acid,cyanic acid,amide,etc.are also included in the crystal compounds.At last,the ICP-MS tests show that crystal mixture may absorb or react with diesel exhaust gas.Based on the discussions above,the main components in crystal mixture are urea and triazine triol,biuret.The primary reason that crystal mixture is created is low temperature of initial ureainjection.
New and efficient one pot syntheses of 2-thioureidobenzimidazole (V), 2-thioureidobenzoxazole (VI), and 2-thioureidobenzothiazole (VII) have been developed. The target compounds were obtained in good yields by condensing the title synthon commonly known as isoperthiocyanic acid (I) with 1,2-diaminobenzene (II), 2-aminophenol (III), and 2-aminothiophenol (IV), respectively, in various organic solvent and in the solid state.
Density functional theory (DFT) calculations of cyanate (OCN-) charge-transfer complexes were performed to model the "XCN" feature observed in interstellar icy grain mantles. OCN - charge-transfer complexes were formed from precursor combinations of HNCO or HOCN with either NH 3 or H 2 O. Three different solvation strategies for realistically modeling the ice matrix environment were explored, including (1) continuum solvation, (2) pure DFT cluster calculations, and (3) an ONIOM DFT/PM3 cluster calculation. The model complexes were evaluated by their ability to reproduce seven spectroscopic measurements associated with XCN: the band origin of the OCN- asymmetric stretching mode, shifts in that frequency due to isotopic substitutions of C, N, O, and H, plus two weak features. The continuum solvent field method produced results consistent with some of the experimental data but failed to account for other behavior due to its limited capacity to describe molecular interactions with solvent. DFT cluster calculations successfully reproduced the available spectroscopic measurements very well. In particular, the deuterium shift showed excellent agreement in complexes where OCN- was fully solvated. Detailed studies of representative complexes including from two to twelve water molecules allowed the exploration of various possible solvation structures and provided insights into solvation trends. Moreover, complexes arising from cyanic or isocyanic acid in pure water suggested an alternative mechanism for the formation of OCN - charge-transfer complexes without the need for a strong base such as NH 3 to be present. An extended ONIOM (B3LYP/PM3) cluster calculation was also performed to assess the impact of a more realistic environment on HNCO dissociation in pure water.
To against traditional variable selection method could not obtain the input variables,which could always reasonably explain the output,because the chemical industrial modeling is nonlinearity and the method belongs to unsupervised learning.This paper put forward a method for complex nonlinear chemical industrial modeling based on the false nearest neighbors and Gamma test(GT).Firstly,it inspired by the false nearest neighbors,thinking about only one variable every time though setting it zero,could search all variables simply.Secondly,it calculated the Gamma statistics for every variable using the Gamma test when it's zero and not zero.Finally,it obtained the sensitivity of output to input to carryout the selection of variables.The example of linearity and nonlinearity were given to validate the method.Finally,confirming the input variables of BP artificial neural networks for the hydrocyanic acid by the method,the modeling is high precision.Therefore,it provides a new method for the variable selection of the complex nonlinear chemical industrial modeling.
In 1963, it was found that sterically unhindered esters of cyanic acid, which had previously been considered unobtainable, could be easily prepared from phenols and cyanogen halides. Another synthesis, involving the thermolysis of thiatriazole derivatives, was discovered in 1964. The aryl cyanates in particular have since been found to have many uses as starting materials for the preparation of numerous new classes of compounds [e.g. derivatives of esters of imidocarbonic acid (esters, amides, imides, hydrazides, hydroxylamides, sulfamides, sulfhydrazides, semicarbazides); esters of imidocarboxylic acids; s-triazines, pyrimidines, tetrazoles, triazoles, triazolones, oxadiazoles, thiadiazoles, benzoxazinones, etc.], mainly by addition of nucleophilic or 1,3-dipolar reactants, or as aids e.g. in the elimination of H2O or H2S or in the transfer of CN groups.
Syntheses under shock in nitrogen bubbled samples of the water – formamide – bicarbonate – sodium hydroxide system at pH 8.63, 9.46 and 10.44 were performed in the stainless steel preservation capsules. The maximum temperature and pressure in the capsules reached 545 K and 12.5 GPa respectively. Using the LC-MS-MS analysis, the 21 synthesis products have been identified, including amines and polyamines, carboxamide, acetamide and urea derivatives, compounds containing aniline, pyrrolidine, pyrrole, imidazole, as well as alcohol groups. It was found that the Fischer-Tropsch-type syntheses with catalysis on the surface of the stainless steel of the conservation capsule associated with the adsorbed hydrogen cyanide reactions and transamidation processes play the main role in the shock syntheses. Formation reactions of all the above-mentioned compounds have been suggested. It was proposed that hydrogen cyanide, ammonia, isocyanic acid, aminonitrile, aminoacetonitrile, as well as adsorbed species H(a), CH(a), CH2(a), CHOH(a), NH2(a) and H2CNH(a) are especially important for the formation of the products. A reduction reaction of adsorbed bicarbonate with hydrogen to formaldehyde has been first postulated. In the studied system also classical reactions take place – Wohler’s synthesis of urea and Butlerov’s synthesis of methenamine. It was suggest that material of meteorites may be an effective catalyst in the Fischer-Tropsch-type syntheses at falling of the iron-nickel meteorites in the water – formamide regions on the early Earth. It was concluded that life could have originated due to the impact of meteorites on alkaline water-formamide lakes located near volcanoes on the early Earth.
The cassava water is characterized as a liquid extract of milky-looking and light-yellow color originated from the processing of cassava roots having a strong acid odor containing 5 to 7% of starch, glucose, hydrocyanic acid and other organic substances (carbohydrates, proteins and lipids) and mineral nutrients (FIORETTO, 2002) . The cassava water has immense potential as fertilizer in agriculture because it presents nutrient contents, mainly nitrogen and potassium (MAGALHÃES et al., 2014) .
In nature, plants and soil microbes seem to have co-evolved to overcome environmental stress in their habitats. Outside pathogenesis and allelopathy, many plant-plant or plant-bacterial interactions have tended to be facilitative in providing benefits to both partners (He et al., 2013) . Thus, the rhizosphere is generally regarded as the hotspot of interactive events between soil microbes and plants, which occur through perception of signals released in the form of simple chemical molecules. In nutrient-poor soils, a typical rhizosphere consists of mixtures of molecules secreted by both plants and microbes for promoting nutrient mobilization and increased mineral uptake (Marschner, 1995; Dakora and Phillips, 2002) . Under Fe-limiting conditions, bacterial species can secrete specialized compounds such as siderophores to enhance Fe acquisition (Jurkevitch et al., 1986) . In times of abiotic stress such as drought, soil microbes, including rhizobia and other diazotrophs, produce chemical molecules in their exudates that effect changes in plant development. In an exhaustive review, Mehboob et al. (2009) found that applying 29 different rhizobial species/strains to 11 non-legume crops led to an increase in plant growth, plant height and plant biomass, as well as greater tissue concentration of N, P, K, Ca, Mg, Na, Fe, Zn, and Cu in plant organs. The growth-promoting molecules released by the test rhizobia included indole acetic acid (IAA) by 13 strains, gibberellins by four strains, exopolysaccharides by three strains, followed by lipopolysaccharides, hydrocyanic acid, abscisic acid (ABA), phenolics and lumichrome by one strain each. This review assesses lumichrome and riboflavin, and to some extent IAA, as rhizobial signals influencing plant growth, and discusses their roles in the rhizosphere of monocots (cereals) and dicots (legumes) in relation to plant growth and mineral nutrition.
Thiocyanic acid gas produced from the reaction between potassium thiocyanate and concentrated sulfuric acid can reacts with iron-ion in air to produce ferric thiocynante. The analysis about showing reagent and showing time tells that different amount of reagent or different time brings different showing effect of fingerprint on adhesive tape. It is concluded that brown fingerprint on adhesive tape can be shown by fumigation of thiocyanic acid gas through suitable amount of reagent and proper time. The method is lf identification value.
Ten isolates of fluorescent pseudomonads were isolated from rhizosphere of sunflower, potato, maize and groundnut. All the isolates produced fluorescent pigment in succinate broth and displayed siderophore production. Production of hydrocyanic acid (HCN)and indole acetic acid (IAA) by all the isolates was recorded besides phosphate solubilization. Out of the 10 strains, Pseudomonas PS I and PS II were found most potential. Bacterization of sunflower seeds with fluorescent Pseudomonas PS I and PS II resulted in increased seed germination, root length, shoot height, fresh and dry weight of roots and shoots, and yield of sunflower. Seed bacterization with strains of fluorescent Pseudomonas PS I and PS II reduced incidence of collar rot by 69.8% and 56.9%, respectively, in Sclerotium rolfsii-infested SOil, making the organism a potential biocontrol agent against collar rot of the sunflower.
Photodissociation processes of molecules and radicals involving multiple pathways and nonadiabatic crossings are studied using the photofragment imaging technique and the core-sampling version of time-of-flight spectroscopy. Capabilities and challenges are illustrated by two systems. The isocyanic acid system demonstrates how interactions among potential energy surfaces can change during dissociation. The hydroxymethyl photodecomposition system highlights Rydberg-valence interactions common in free radicals. The cross-fertilization between theory and experiment is emphasized.
Abstract The paper describes the N -benzoylation of 2-aminophenol and 4-aminophenol employing benzoylisothiocyanates in a chemoselective manner. The products N -(2-hydroxyphenyl)benzamides, that are compounds of biological interest, have been identified by simple chemical test, satisfactory analytical and spectral data (IR, 1 H and 13 C NMR). The formation of product has been explained via the formation of the corresponding thiourea followed by elimination of thiocyanic acid triggered by intramolecular nucleophilic attack of aromatic nitrogen on the carbonyl group of thioureas.
Attiéké is the major fermented plant food in Côte d'Ivoire. The aim of this study was to identify hazards and critical control points (CCP) in order to implement a HACCP system for the production of attiéké. Physico-chemical and microbiological analyses were carried out. pH of the cossettes used as raw material for attieke process was slightly acidic (6·5 ± 0·23). But attiéké produced had an acid pH (4·55 ± 0·67). The very high amount of hydrocyanic acid in cassava roots (116 ± 9·42 mg kg-1 ) was reduced to a lower value (3·4 ± 0·14 mg kg-1 ) in attiéké. It was less than the Codex Alimentarus recommended dose (10 mg/kg). Microbiological analysis of the samples revealed the presence of coliforms, bacillus, Staphylococcus aureus and moulds in the intermediate products, the packaged attieke, the utensils, environment and ingredients. During the fermentation and pressing stage, the coliforms disappeared and the loads of Bacillus cereus, Staphylococcus aureus and moulds were reduced. Cooking eliminated all microorganisms except Bacillus cereus (spores) whose load was reduced to a value of (1·1 ± 0·4)102 CFU g-1 . All these microorganisms reappeared in attiéké just after packaging. The load of microorganisms in the packaged attiéké was lower than the Codinorm standard, Critical control points (CCP) were cassava roots, the crushing, fermentation, and drying, cooking and packaging stage.
Abstract Thermal behavior of labetalol hydrochloride (2-hydroxy-5-[1-hydroxy-2-(4-phenylbutan-2-ylamino)ethyl]benzamide), a β-blocker antihypertensive drug, has been investigated using thermogravimetry (TG), differential thermal analysis (DTA), differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), thermogravimetry coupled to infrared spectroscopy (TG-FTIR), hot stage microscopy and gas chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry (GC–MS). TG/DTA and TG-FTIR analysis showed that labetalol decomposed after melting releasing water in the first step of mass loss. In sequence water and isocyanic acid (which decomposed in ammonia and carbon dioxide) were detected in the second step, and methylbenzene in the third decomposition step. The decomposition took place in the same way in nitrogen and air atmospheres until 550 °C, however in air there is one more step due the oxidative burning of the carbonaceous material, resulting in practically no residue at the end of the run. DSC curves demonstrated that the sample melted at T = 180.8 °C, without recrystallization on cooling. Hot stage microscopy confirmed that labetalol melted and decomposed releasing water from its structure. GC–MS analysis allowed characterizing some intermediates of the drug degradation and the identification of other degradation products. Based on these results a mechanism for labetalol hydrochloride thermal behavior was proposed.
Robert H. White was executed by hydrocyanic acid gas at the Nevada State Prison, June 2, 1930. A study of the heart and respiratory action was made at the time of the execution, a Bowles stethoscope being applied on the bare chest wall over the apex of the heart. The tube leading to the ear pieces on the outside of the prison wall was connected to the stethoscope while the prisoner was being strapped to the chair. This was at 4:36 a. m. The heart action at that time was 108, strong and regular. The gas was started generating at 4:37½ At 4:38 the pulse rate was 120, regular and strong. A small inspiration was taken at 4:37¾ at which time the prisoner indicated that he smelled the gas. At 4:38 he took a very deep inspiration, turning his head toward the gas. He gave a spasmodic cough, his head
The proximate composition, toxic substances, functional properties, and mineral elements of both the shell and meat of fresh Lymnaea stagnalis were determined. The moisture contents ofthe sample were 38.62g/ l00g; and 30.06g/1 OOgDM for both the shell and the meat respectively. Crude protein for the meat was 25.60g/100g DM while that of shell was not detectable (ND), the crude fat, and ash content for both the meat and the shell sample were 2.75g/100g DM, 0.95g/100g DM,3.41g/100g DM and 52.41g/100g DM respectively. Emulsion and absorption capacity were 6mVg for the meat and 0.20mVg for the shell, the oil absorption capacity of 10% was also determined for the shell and the meat. Mineral element composition determination showed that Lymnaea stagnalis meat is richer in sodium and potassium than the shell while the shell is richer in Calcium, Nickel, Magnesium, Cadmium, Iron, Copper, and Lead than the meat. Total oxalate was 420mg/l00g DM for the meat and 35Omg/l00g DM for the shell; hydrocyanic acid was 180mg/200g DM for the meat and 121mg/l00g DM for the shell; while tannic acid was 520mg/l00gDM for the meat 48Omg/l OOgDM for the shell.
ABSTRACT Standards and regulations related to spirit drinks have been established by different countries and international organizations to ensure the safety and quality of spirits. Here, we introduce the principles of food safety and quality standards for alcoholic beverages and then compare the key indicators used in the distinct standards of the Codex Alimentarius Commission, the European Union, the People's Republic of China, the United States, Canada, and Australia. We also discuss in detail the “maximum level” of the following main contaminants of spirit drinks: methanol, higher alcohols, ethyl carbamate, hydrocyanic acid, heavy metals, mycotoxins, phthalates, and aldehydes. Furthermore, the control measures used for potential hazards are introduced. Harmonization of the current requirements based on comprehensive scope analysis and the risk assessment approach will enhance both the trade and quality of distilled spirits. This review article provides valuable information that will enable producers, ...
Explosions of hydrocyanic acid during storage are believed to result from the rapid uncontrolled polymerization of the acid, leading to a sudden increase in pressure of the gaseous concomitants. ::: ::: ::: ::: Cobalt oxalate or its admixture with nickel oxalate constitute outstanding stabilizers for hydrocyanic acid and are particularly effective in reducing risk of explosion (American and British patents have been claimed). ::: ::: ::: ::: Analysis indicates that their action is due to a liberation of oxalate ion into solution by hydrocyanolysis. ::: ::: ::: ::: The deterioration of hydrocyanic acid may be conveniently observed by a measurement of conductivity changes. ::: ::: ::: ::: Water is a main factor in deterioration, a proportion over 5% impairing to a very high degree the stability of hydrocyanic acid. ::: ::: ::: ::: An unprotected steel surface also exercises an adverse effect which may be eliminated by suitable (e.g. oxalate) coatings.
Gas chromatography was used to determine the concentrations of acrylonitrile, carbon disulfide, carbon tetrachloride, chloropicrin, ethylene dibromide, ethylene dichloride, hydrocyanic acid, methyl bromide, and of fumigant mixtures (on a volume basis) of acrylonitrile-carbon tetrachloride (25–75), carbon disulfide-carbon tetrachloride (20–80), ethylene dichloridecarbon tetrachloride (75–25), and carbon tetrachloride-ethylene dichloride-ethylene dibromide (60–35-5), under conditions of no load and of a load of corn (whole-kernel grade No. 2 yellow) under recirculation of fumigant. Mortality of adults of Tribolium confusum Duv. and Sitopkilus oryza (L.) are included.
Oxidative stress represents an imbalance in homeostasis of exogenous and endogenous oxidants. Increased concentrations of oxidants in cells and extracellular fluids can result in spontaneous post-translational modifications of proteins, which alter their chemical, biological, physical and immune characteristics, contributing to molecular mechanisms in a number of pathological conditions. A variety of post-translational protein modifications have been recognized to occur as a consequence of oxidative stress. Aside from direct oxidative damage imposed by reactive oxygen and nitrogen species, proteins can be subjected to other oxidants resulting in a variety of post-translational protein products. This include glycation and glycoxidation by glucose and other reducing sugars, yielding advanced glycation end-products (AGE), addition of lipid-derived aldehydes and ketones followed by intramolecular rearrangement and oxidative backbone cleavage, yielding advanced lipoxidation end-products (ALE), oxidation and polymerization combined with oxidative cleavage, resulting in advanced oxidation protein products (AOPP), as well as addition of urea-derived isocyanic acid, which gives rise to carbamylated proteins. This short review article describes chemical aspects of post-translational of proteins induced by oxidative stress, and highlights their roles in pathogenesis of some most common diseases in humans.
The metabolism of radioactively labelled alpha-phenyl-alpha-N-(beta-phenyl-isopropyl)-aminoacetonitrile (amphetaminil, AN 1-R) (tritium-labelled in the amphetamine-part, 14C-labelled in the benzaldehyde-part of the molecule) in the rat was examined. In the body amphetaminil is cleft very quickly into the original compounds of its chemical synthesis (amphetamine, benzaldehyde and hydrocyanic acid) independent of the mode of application (i.p. or oral). Blood: In the interval from 5-90 min after application of amphetaminil only 1-2 percent of the total radioactivity are received from amphetaminil. The main part of the tritium- and 14C-radioactivity is distributed among amphetamine, p-OH-amphetamineglucuronide and hippuric acid. Brain: In the brain only a minimum amount of amphetaminil can be present, if any. The share of amphetamine of the total activity amounts to more than 90 percent. Adipose tissue: In the adipose tissue the ratio of the two isotopes of the substances extracted at pH 5 is almost equal to that of the administered amphetaminil. It seems that the substance is enriched there because of its pronounced lipophilia. After i.p. application the concentration is about 12 times higher than after oral application. Urine: In the urine there could be detected amphetamine, p-OH-amphetamineglucuronide and hippuric acid but no amphetaminil.
A brief survey of the older literature concerning the classical methods of synthesis and the reactions of organic isothiocyanates is presented. Some properties of these isothiocyanates and the parent isothiocyanic acid are also noted, and a comparison with the analogous isocyanates is made. Particular emphasis is placed on the more recent literature concerning the chemistry and possible applications of these compounds.
Abstract On-line infrared spectroscopy has been used to show that isocyanic acid, HNCO, is a substantial primary product of the reaction between NO, CO and H 2 over a Pt/SiO 2 catalyst. At 230°C it accounts for more than 40% of the CO converted. No isocyanic acid is seen when Al 2 O 3 is placed downstream of Pt/SiO 2 , or when using a Pt/Al 2 O 3 catalyst under the same conditions, due to rapid hydrolysis of HNCO on the alumina. Isocyanic acid may exist as a trace intermediate in automobile catalytic converters during their warm-up phase but it is unlikely to emerge from the pore system of aluminabased catalysts.
A brief history of the plant quarantine work of the United States is given, including a short review of the necessity for and efforts put forth to secure the passage of the Plant Quarantine Act. A short resume of the various fields covered by quarantine activities, the type of men employed in this work, and methods of certifying and safeguarding the plants and plant products shipped interstate (including fumigation with Hydrocyanic Acid Gas) is contained in this article; as well as a discussion of the need for more time for the meetings of the Section on Horticultural Inspection and a change in the name of the Section. The suggestion is made that a committee, composed of members of the Section, be appointed to consider these last two problems.
The invention discloses a golden-fungus gingko functional food, comprising 5% to 15% of flavone, 1% to 6% of terpene compound, less than 5ppm of ginkgolic acid, not more than 5ppm of hydrocyanic acid, 5% to 20% of ginkgolide, not less than 15% to 30% of protein, and not more than 10% of soluble sugar. The preparation method comprises the following steps: precisely weighing gingko without shell; adding 1 to 10 times of water to pulp; adding protease to hydrolyzing for 1 to 6 hours; adding liquefying enzyme to hydrolyze for 0.5 to 5 hours at 60 to 100 DEG C; adding 0.1% to 5% of ginko leaf extract; feeding 3% to 10% of Tremellaaurantialba that is cultured at 22 to 33 DEG C through ginkgo hydrolyzing liquid by continuously expanding at two to five times; fermenting to culture for 2 to 20 days; releasing pressure; condensing; parching; and breaking to obtain capsule or electuary. The food has the effects of improving the immunity of organism, adjusting blood sugar and blood fat, releasingsenile asthma, and the like.
Infrared spectra of thin films of solid HNCO condensed from the gas phase are characterized in terms of their vibrational frequencies, mode assignments, and integrated band intensities at low temperatures ( approximately 20-145 K). Isocyanic acid is shown to react with water (H2O) and ammonia (NH3) even at low temperatures; consequently, it may be an important species in the chemistry of interstellar ices and comets.
Abstract This investigation of collision induced dissociation of deprotonated guanine was conducted by using sequential ion trap tandem mass spectrometry and isotopically labelled guanine analogs to clarify the complex dissociation reactions of pyrimidine ring of deprotonated guanine. The fragmentation patterns confirmed that the gas-phase dissociation processes are initiated from the pyrimidine ring through charge site controlled reactions involving charge redistribution, proton transfer and nucleophilic attack to generate the three primary fragment products by the elimination of ammonia, cyanamide and isocyanic acid. Our findings shed light on the process of pyrimidine ring opening and closure prior to the decomposition of deprotonated guanine and therefore the identity of N1 and exocyclic N 2 is lost in deprotonated guanine as a result of scrambling. Intriguing association products of water addition to fragment ions have been structurally characterized to establish the role of ketene group in the selective gas-phase reaction of water addition and the formation of water adducts. The elimination of CO 2 from negatively charged water adducts provides evidence for the covalent attachment of water to the ketene moiety. The established mechanisms of the dissociation reactions of pyrimidine ring should provide a basis for the structural elucidation of guanine relevant species modified on its active sites. To lend support for our proposals, collision induced dissociation study of 8-phenyl-2′-deoxyguanosine adduct was performed.
Prunus serotine seed, was processed to produce a defatted flour (71.07 ± 2.10% yield) without hydrocyanic acid. The total protein was 50.94 ± 0.64%. According to sensory evaluation of cookies with P. serotine flour, the highest score in overall impression (6.31) was at 50% flour substitution. Its nutritional composition stood out for its protein and fiber contents 12.50% and 0.93%, respectively. Protein concentrate (PsPC) was elaborated (81.44 ± 7.74% protein) from defatted flour. Emulsifying properties of PsPC were studied in emulsions at different mass fractions; ϕ = 0.002, 0.02, 0.1, 0.2, and 0.4 through physicochemical analysis and compared with whey protein concentrate (WPC). Particle size in emulsions increased, as did oil content, and results were reflected in microscope photographs. PsPC at ϕ 0.02 showed positive results along the study, reflected in the microphotograph and emulsifying stability index (ESI) test (117.50 min). At ϕ 0.4, the lowest ESI (29.34 min), but the maximum emulsifying activity index (EAI) value (0.029 m2/g) was reached. WPC had an EAI value higher than PsPC at ϕ ≥ 0.2, but its ESI were always lower in all mass fraction values. PsPC can compete with emulsifiers as WPC and help stabilize emulsions.
The effect of electron beam (EB) radiation on the anti-nutritional factors (ANFs) of unconventional plant based feed ingredients such as cotton seed cake; rubber seed cake and soybean meal were studied. All the three ingredients were exposed to 0 (control), 5, 10, 15 or 50 KGy of electron beam. The anti-nutritional factors examined were phytic acid, tannin and hydrocyanic acid. The results revealed that EB irradiation significantly reduced (P<0.05) the phytic acid, tannin and hydrocyanic acid content in all the three ingredients. The degradation of ANFs varied with respect to dose of electron beam radiation and the feed ingredients as well. Using broken line analysis it was found that a radiation of 9.33 KGy was found to be optimum to reduce hydrocyanic acid, phytic acid and tannic acid to the extent of 34, 63, and 22%, respectively. This irradiation method appears to be user friendly compared to traditional methods for reducing the ANFs present in the plant ingredients
The roots of sorghum, Sorghum vulgare Pers., were found to he toxic to the larvae of Diabrotica virgifera LeConte. Preliminary tests suggested that the toxin involved was hydrocyanic acid. Other experiments showed that free cyanide was toxic to the larvae when it was ingested at a level of 10 ppm. Cyanogenetic glucosides were not toxic to larvae when ingested at a level equivalent to 2000 ppm cyanide unless appropriate hydrolytic enzymes were present. We suggest that toxic levels of hydrocyanic acid result during larval feeding on sorghum roots because of the action of a beta glucosidase on endogenous cyanogenetic glucosides such as dhurrin.
Thirty two rhizobial strains were screened from horse gram for their ability to produce hydrocyanic acid (HCN). 12 strains showed HCN production on Yeast Extract Mannitol Agar (YEMA) medium and only three strains showed HCN production on Tryptic Soya agar Medium (TSM). In these, five strains were strong HCN producers. Two strains HGR1 and HGR17 were noncyanogenic on YEMA medium but cyanogenic on TSM. One strain was weakly cyanogenic on both media. These strains are also cyanogenic at 0.5M and 1M salt concentrations. These horse gram rhizobia have the potential to be used as PGPR, biocontrol and reclamation agents.
Toxic compounds in cooking fumes could cause respiratory problems. In the present study, the formation of isocyanic acid (ICA), methyl isocyanate (MIC), and hydrogen cyanide (HCN) was studied durin ...
Abstract A combination of matrix isolation technique and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy has been used to study the low-temperature photochemistry of isothiocyanic acid HNCS. Near UV photolysis with a medium-pressure mercury lamp of the matrix isolated HNCS/DNCS precursor in nitrogen and argon led to the formation of two unobserved, so far, isomers: thiocyanic acid HSCN and isothiofulminic acid HSNC and their deuterated analogs. Both species are formed as primary products presumably via two reaction channels: formation of the [H⋯NCS] and hydrogen migration leading to the HSCN molecule and formation of the [HNC⋯S] followed by rearrangement to HSCN and HSNC species.
The relationships between the hydrocyanic acid potential (HCN-p) of leaves and whole plants were studied in ‘Piper’ sudangrass, Sorghum bicolor var. sudanense (L.) Moench, and ‘Suhi-l’, sorghum-sudangrass hybrid, S. bicolor ✕ S. bicolor var. sudanense, subjected to three cutting managements. The results were: ::: 1. Leaf and whole plant samples from Suhi-1 were usually higher in HCN-p than samples from Piper at all harvest dates for the three cutting managements. ::: 2. Plants cut at 10 cm when they reached the early bloom stage had significantly lower average HCN-p than plants cut at 8 and 20 cm when they reached a height of 50 and 75 cm, respectively. Differences in average HCN-p for the two latter cuttung management were not signifant. ::: 3. There were no significant differences among average HCN-p of the whorl and the first and third leaves of Piper. For Suhi-1, no significant difference was found between the average HCN-p of the whorl and the first leaf. Both the whorl and the first leaf were significantly higher in HCN-p than the third leaf, ::: 4. There were no consistent trends in HCN-p associated with successive harvest dates during the season. ::: 5. Most of the simple correlation coefficients between HCN-p of leaf samples and of whole plants were highly significant, indicating that leaf samples could be used to rank varieties for HCN-p. ::: 6. Ratios of leaf to whole plant HCN-p were inconsistent; therefore, such samples are not suitable for estimating the total amount of HCN-p of whole plants
Species belonging to the genus of Pseudomonas are known to possess metabolic versatility and are capable of adapting to various environments. One such strain BG, possessing urease activity, was isolated from marine water from the Gulf of Khambhat, Gujarat. 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis was performed to identify the isolate, which showed that it was the closest neighbor to be Pseudomonas aeruginosa strain BS8. Strain BG was accessed (meant to be assessed?) for multiple plant growth promoting and biocontrol traits. It tested positive for indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) production with 19 mg ml−1 of IAA yield, phosphate solubilization with 13 mg ml−1 solubilization of tri-calcium-phosphate and it showed maximum of 27 mg ml−1 of ammonia production. Further, BG isolate could produce hydrocyanic acid, siderophore, catalase and showed growth inhibition of Aspergillus flavus and Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. cubense confirming its potential antifungal activity. The marine isolate also showed 17.92 ± 1.79 unit min−1 ml−1 urease activity, and further, the presence of genes responsible for urease enzyme in strain BG was identified by amplification using gene specific primers. Talc based biofertilizer using strain BG was prepared and tested on seedling growth of Chickpea, where biofertilizer treated seeds showed enhanced growth. Thus, it was concluded that marine P. aeruginosa BG showed plant growth promotion and biocontrol abilities along with urease activity.
Dear Editor-in-chief ::: ::: Earlier reports have demonstrated that prolonged exposure to a gas-chlorinated swimming-pool was associated with enamel erosion, particularly in competitive swimmers (Centerwall et al., 1986). A few additional reports have confirmed these findings (Buczkowska-Radlinska et al., 2012; Gabai et al., 1988; Geursten, 2000). Although the regulation may vary according to each state jurisdiction (as is the case for the US), a frequently recommended chlorine level for a typical swimming pool is between 1.0 to 1.5 mg·L-1. When using cyanic acid (stabilizer) minimum and maximum values are set to respectively 2.0 and 5.0 mg·L-1. The expected pH range for swimming pools is between 7.2 and 8.0. However, if a gas- chlorinated pool becomes inadequately buffered, the pH may decrease rapidly to tooth decalcifying levels as low as 3. ::: ::: While swimmers may not be sensitive to the low pH, it may lead to tooth demineralization. The dental literature suggests that pool water with a low pH can cause very rapid and extensive dental erosion (Centerwall et al., 1986; Dawes and Boroditsky, 2008; Geursten, 2000). Thus, habitual swimming may be considered a contributory factor when diagnosing dental erosion in competitive swimmers. ::: ::: The purpose of this study was therefore to determine the salivary parameters of competitive swimmers at a gas-chlorinated swimming-pool, before and after a 2-hour swimming practice. We hypothesized that intensive exercising may alter significantly the salivary flow rate and balance of calcium (Ca), phosphorus (P) and fluoride (F) salivary levels for competitive swimmers while in training at gas-chlorinated swimming-pools. ::: ::: Competitive swimmers from the University of Michigan Swimming Team 18-23 years old (males only) participated in the study. Consent was obtained from all participants approved by an institutional review board (University of Michigan, School of Dentistry IRB). Participants were asked to fill a semi- structured questionnaire concerning aspects of their diet, medicine intake, self-determined tooth color appearance and tooth-brushing habits and frequency. Thus, a total of twenty-two athletes participated in this study. ::: ::: Unstimulated whole saliva of swimmers was collected before and immediately after their training session, which took an average of two hours (between 10 am and 12 pm). The saliva collection was performed with the athletes seated, head slightly down and they were asked not to swallow or move the tongue or lips during the collection period. During a period of 3 minutes they were asked to spit the accumulated saliva into a pre-weighed tube (kept on ice). The tubes containing saliva were weighted on a precision balance. The rate of saliva secretion was then determined gravimetrically (mL·min-1). ::: ::: Salivary parameters were analyzed by different assays before and after swimming that included salivary pH, P, F, Ca salivary levels. Saliva aliquots used for the assays were as follows: 50 μL, 6 μL, 500 μL and 500 μL, respectively. Salivary pH was derived from colorimetric assays (Hydrion, Micro Essential Lab., Brooklyn, NY, USA). P salivary levels were obtained by the ammonium molybdate method using an ultraviolet spectrophotometer at a wavelength of 690 nm. P salivary levels were expressed in mmol·L-1. F salivary levels were analyzed by means of an F ion-specific electrode (Orion Model 96-09, Orion, Helsinki, Finland). The concentration of Ca in saliva was determined using an atomic absorption spectrometer with a deuterium background corrector (Perkin-Elmer 3030 B, Waltham, MA, USA). Ca and F salivary concentrations were computed and expressed in mmol·L-1. Paired t-tests were employed to estimate differences between each one of the measured parameters before and after swimming using the statistical software package housed in Minitab 16 (Minitab Inc., State College, PA, USA). ::: ::: The average salivary parameters of the 22 competitive swimmers before and after swimming in the gas-chlorinated swimming-pool are depicted in the Figure A-D. A significant decrease in the rate of saliva secretion was observed after a swimming session (p 0.05). The water pH and levels of ions in the gas-chlorinated pools at University of Michigan were monitored daily. On the day and time period we performed our study sampling, the pH of the water fluctuated between 7.0 and 8.0, with an average pH of 7.5. Chlorine and F levels were 1.5 mg·L-1 and 0.8 mg·L-1, respectively. ::: ::: ::: ::: Figure 1. ::: ::: Salivary parameters of competitive swimmers measured before and after a swimming session. Mean ± SD (n = 22). Statistical differences between groups by paired-t-test are designated with an asterisk (*). ::: ::: ::: ::: The present results show that competitive swimmers who swam at a gas-chlorinated swimming- pool experienced a significant alteration of their salivary parameters, such as salivary flow rate and concentration of Ca, P and F and, therefore are consistent with our initial hypothesis. As indicated in previous studies (Centerwall et al., 1986; Gabai et al., 1988), competitive swimming led to the development of severe dental erosion in inadequately maintained gas- chlorinated swimming-pools. Our study suggests that even in properly maintained gas-chlorinated swimming-pools (i.e. average pH 7.5, calcium chloride = 1.5 mg·L-1), parameters (decrease in saliva output and increase in Ca an F salivary levels) contributing to enamel dissolution of competitive swimmers who swim on a regular basis may be affected. This study per se does not establish a direct causal relationship between competitive swimming and dental erosion, but it suggests that additional longitudinal studies merit evaluation on this topic. ::: ::: We did not measure dental erosion of the swimmers, but the athletes are well aware of the risk for erosion when swimming in gas-chlorinated pools. In fact, many of the athletes in this study reported being aware of their “yellow teeth” (loss of enamel) due to swimming. Consistent with these anecdotal self- reports, the literature describes the detection of unusual yellowish brown staining on tooth surfaces of competitive swimmers (Escartin et al., 2000; Rose and Carey, 1995). These adverse events can be minimized if athletes who engage in competitive swimming at an early age are educated about the potential risk for developing staining and dental erosion. This would entail the supervised use of fluorides (i.e. mouthrinses, gels, varnishes) in order to prevent loss of the tooth mineral content while swimming in gas-chlorinated swimming-pools and regular attendance for periodic dental check-ups. ::: ::: The possible consequences of enamel dissolution due to frequent swimming are therefore of considerable diagnostic and therapeutic significance for competitive swimmers and regular swimmers of the general public. This fact also underscores the significance of regular pH monitoring of the water of gas-chlorinated swimming-pools.
Formulae are presented by means of which one can calculate the maximum number of pounds of a fumigant whether (1) a gas or (2) a liquid or solid which can exist in the vapor phase in an enclosed space of 1,000 cu. ft. at temperatures ranging from 32 F. to 122 F. under a pressure of 1 atmosphere. ::: ::: Tables show the data for 26 compounds, including the commonly used fumigants such as hydrocyanic acid gas, carbon disulphide, paradichlorobenzene, naphthalene, nicotine, etc.
Abstract A two-step mechanism for non-catalytic thermal decomposition of urea was investigated. It involves a first order reaction for the thermolysis of urea and a pseudo-first order reaction for hydrolysis of isocyanic acid. Rate constants of these reactions were tuned on experimental measurements of NH 3 and HNCO concentrations at 423–723 K and 1083–1383 K in isothermal flow reactors made of aluminum and ceramic, respectively. A regression analysis by taking the uncertainties in the kinetic parameters into account shown that the resultant pairs of Arrhenius expressions for thermo-hydrolyzing urea were different with a 90% confidence when obtained from the different sets of experimental data. Additional results of ammonia concentration from experiments of urea solution decomposition reported in the literature revealed the reliability of the Arrhenius expressions tuned on the reaction rates obtained in the highest range of temperature in the ceramic reactor. The consistency of these equations was also verified by a comparison between calculated and experimental rates of selective non-catalytic reduction of nitric oxide with urea as reducing agent. A statistical analysis based on the identification of possible tendencies in these residuals again evidences the weakness of the Arrhenius expressions based on the experiments performed at lower temperatures, which was attributed to a non-expected catalytic effect of aluminum reactor walls on reactions rates of urea thermal decomposition.
To the Editor:— I read with interest the query by M.D., U. S. Navy, "Convulsions and Death, Probably from Cocaine," inThe Journal, September 12, page 166. I think it might be a good idea for the inquirer to find out how the cocaine solution had been prepared and whether it was sterilized in an autoclave or if it had been exposed to high heat for considerable time, as a change takes place with the production of toxic substances, probably similar to hydrocyanic acid, commonly called prussic acid, when high heat is used. My attention was called to this matter years ago when I had two close calls. The first was a rugged patient aged 46, who did considerable public speaking and was bothered with hoarseness, caused by discharge from the posterior ethmoids. This patient had cocaine used in his nose for diagnostic purposes on various occasions and had shown
The invention relates to a preparation method of methyl-glycine diacetate tri-sodium, successively comprising the following steps of: preparation of hydroxy acetonitrile solution, preparation of iminodiacetonitrile solution, preparation of methyl-flycine nitrile diacetonitrile crystal, preparation of methyl-glycine diacetate tri-sodium (MGDA-3Na) and preparation of solid product MGDA-3Na. In the method, the yield of methyl-flycine nitrile diacetonitrile crystal is higher than 92%, the total yield of MGDA-3Na can reach more than 86%, the content of NTA (nitrilotriacetic acid) is less than 0.08%; and the equipment investment and energy consumption in the hydrocyanic acid refining process are saved on the premise that high yield and low toxic side product content are met, and the hydrocyanic acid refining process is not required, so that the production cost is reduced and the environment pollution is reduced.
Sodium cyanide (NaCN) is widely used for the capture of reef fish throughout Southeast Asia and causes extensive fish mortality, but the effect of NaCN on reef corals remains debated. To document the impact of cyanide exposure on corals, the species Acropora millepora, Goniopora sp., Favites abdita, Trachyphyllia geoffrio, Plerogyra sp., Heliofungia actinformis, Euphyllia divisa, and Scarophyton sp., and the sea anemone Aiptasia pallida were exposed to varying concentrations of cyanide for varying time periods. Corals were exposed to 50, 100, 300, and 600 mg/l of cyanide ion (CN(-)) for 1-2 min (in seawater, the CN(-) forms hydrocyanic acid). These concentrations are much lower than those reportedly used by fish collectors. Exposed corals and anemones immediately retracted their tentacles and mesenterial filaments, and discharged copious amounts of mucus containing zooxanthellae. Gel electrophoreses techniques found changes in protein expression in both zooxanthellae and host tissue. Corals and anemones exposed to cyanide showed an immediate increase in mitotic cell division of their zooxenthellae, and a decrease in zooxanthellae density. In contrast, zooxanthellae cell division and density remained constant in controls. Histopathological changes included gastrodermal disruption, mesogleal degradation, and increased mucus in coral tissues. Zooxanthellae showed pigment loss, swelling, and deformation. Mortality occurred at all exposure levels. Exposed specimens experienced an increase in the ratio of gram-negative to gram-positive bacteria on the coral surface. The results demonstrate that exposure cyanide causes mortality to corals and anemones, even when applied at lower levels than that used by fish collectors. Even brief exposure to cyanide caused slow-acting and long-term damage to corals and their zooxanthellae.
Preliminary tests to determine the resistance of planting material and its parasites to various dosages of gases applied in a vacuum fumigator. Planting material proved to be quite intolerant to carbon bisulphide, considerably more resistant to chlorpicrin and withstood, without injury, heavy charges of hydrocyanic acid gas. The last also gave satisfactory control of the parasites within the tolerance limits of the host.
In this work, the reactions of ammonia (NH 3 ) in the presence of carbonate and corresponding oxide surfaces were studied in an oxygen-free, as well as in an oxygen-containing atmosphere at temperatures between 450 and 950 °C. In the temperature range below the carbonate dissociation temperature, NH 3 was decomposed to N 2 and H 2 in an oxygen-free atmosphere. The reactions of NH 3 during the dissociation of the carbonate led to formation of additional products, namely H 2 O, CO 2 , CO, hydrocyanic acid (HCN), and isocyanuric acid (HNCO). The rate of NH 3 decomposition decreased with increasing release of CO 2 during the calcination, which may be due to adsorption of H 2 O formed in various reactions. Calcium carbonate, dolomite, and potassium carbonate had similar, but not quantitatively the same, effects. The presence of barium carbonate did not give formation of HCN or HNCO, probably due to a too low amount of reactive carbonate ions in the temperature interval studied. Possible reactions leading to formation of these products are discussed. No formation of nitrogen oxides was observed during these experiments, which may be due to adsorption of H 2 O on surface sites active in the heterogeneous NH 3 oxidation mechanism. In an atmosphere containing O 2 , decomposition and oxidation reactions removed NH 3 more effectively in the presence of CaO (calcined limestone) than in the presence of CaCO 3 (uncalcined limestone), whereas when O 2 was present, NH 3 was removed by oxidation to NO and N 2 O as well.
The environment friendly clean production process of high pure amino acetic acid with hydrocyanic acid as initial material includes the following steps: reaction with formaldehyde to produce hydroxyl acetonitrile, reaction of hydroxyl acetonitrile in carbonic water system containing ammonia to obtain water solution of amino acetic acid, and further purifying to obtain high pure amino acetic acid product. The present invention has the features of excellent inhibition of harmful impurity, high yield, high product purity, low cost, safe operation, and low power consumption.
On the basis of yield and organoleptic evaluation, out of 10 cassava ( Manihot esculenta Crantz) cultivars, lAC-12-829, IAC-Mantequeira, Jamaica 18 and Trinidad 14-56 are the most promising in this preliminary evaluation. The 10 cassava cultivars were evaluated in the hilly humid East Central region of Puerto Rico. The highest yielders were lAC 12-829, IAC-Mantequeira, Jamaica 18, and SRT-598-Sta. Catarina with 41.98, 39.24, 35.17 and 31 .13 tons/ha, respectively. Hydrocyanic acid content among cultivars was well below the toxicity level (50-100 mg/kg). The mean values ranged from 0.0 up to 22.3 mg HCN/kg of fresh peeled root. Regarding overall acceptability by the tasting panel all except Sta. Catarina cultivar were acceptable.
The radio-sensitivity of the cell is not a constant property; even without change in environment, it varies. Dividing cells are more sensitive than non-dividing, and of non-dividing cells those about to divide are more sensitive than those more removed from mitosis. When the cell is subjected to change in environment, its radio-sensitivity is also altered; for instance, subjection to cold and to hydrocyanic acid increases, and to anaerobiosis decreases, radio-sensitivity. Under conditions of arrested metabolism, as in dry seeds and resting eggs, great resistance is found. When metabolism is going on at a high rate, as in developing seeds and eggs and in rapidly-growing tumours, then radio-sensitivity is high. A question of great importance in radio therapy arises out of these considerations: does radiation itself alter the radio-sensitivity of cells? If it does, then it is necessary to take it into account in the treatment of cancer by radium and X rays. It has long been known (1 and 2) that if tumour cel...
Abstract Car manufacturers must eliminate automotive shredder residues (ASR). Two ways of incineration are of interest: at 850°C in municipal waste incinerators or at higher temperatures, above 1100°C in cement plants. These processes reduce the mass and the volume of waste to be disposed of in landfills and energy recovery might be possible. Regulations govern the emission of gaseous effluents to control environmental risk. To determine gaseous effluents from a pilot sacle or an industrial incineration plant, an artificial ASR was made by mixing three representative organic polymers present in the real ASR, namely polyvinylchloride, polyurethane and rubber. This mixture was incinerated at 850 and 1100°C in laboratory experiments and the analyses of the principal gaseous effluents such as carbon oxides, nitrogen oxides, volatile organic compounds, hydrochloric and hydrocyanic acids and sulphur compounds are presented and discussed. Lastly, in order to simulate artificial ASR behaviour, the composition of the combustion gases at equilibrium was calculated using a Gibbs energy minimisation code.
Bamboo shoots are delicious, taste sweet, rich in carbohydrate, protein, vitamin and essential amino acids. Despite these nutrtious quality, bamboo shoots have cynogenic glycosides which releases hydrocyanic acid (HCN) on hydrolysis. Picrate paper method was found convinient and reliable protocol to estimate hydrocyanic acid content in edible bamboo shoots. Present study was done on edible shoots of three bamboo including B. tulda and D. strictus and found that tender shoots of B. tulda are edible and good for human health as it has lower content of hydrocyanic acid. Overall middle part of the shoots contained maximum amount of HCN content in all species.
【Objective】 The objective of this study is to explain the relation of peach replant diseases and rhizosphere microorganisms.【Method】Peach rhizosphere microorganisms were isolated with Mфller Potassium Cyanide Medium.The isolated strains were identified by 16S rDNA sequences and biological characterization.Biocontrol effect were observed in pot trials initially.【Result】 Three bacteria strains(CN-X4,CN-X9,CN-X17) which could utilize amygdalin as carbon source and produce hydrocyanic acid were separated from peach rhizophere soil,and three rhizosphere actinomyces strains(CN-G2,CN-G3,CN-G5) were also isolated,and show different antagonistic effect on the three bacterial strains by plate bacteriostasis assays.Strain CN-X4 and strain CN-X17 were identified as Agrobacterium tumefaciens,but they were different subspecies.Strains CN-X9,CN-G2 and CN-G5 were proved to belong to Pseudomonas sp,Streptomyces microflavus,Streptomyces lavendulae,respectively.Strain CN-G3 may be close or similar to a species of Streptomyces griseus.Biocontrol effect was significant in pot trials.【Conclusion】 There were not only bacteria which could utilize amygdalin as carbon source and produce hydrocyanic acid but also actinomyces which had antagonistic effect on the bacteria in peach rhizosphere.The unbalance of the rhizosphere microorganisms is considered as a crucial factor for peach replant diseases occurrence.
The identification of their structures by UV and PMR spectroscopy is difficult. In a study of the mass-spectrometric behavior of I-IV with Varian MAT-44S and MKh-1303 spectrometers at ionization energies of 70 and 50 eV we found that the character of the fragmentation of their molecular ions is monotypic and consists in the successive elimination of a hydrogen atom, a molecule of hydrocyanic acid, and carbon thiooxide, which is confirmed by the corresponding metastable ions.
A method and a system for recovering ammonia from mixed gas generated from hydrocyanic acid synthesis by Andrussow method. The method comprises steps of ammonia absorption, cyanide removal, ammonia desorption and ammonia water distillation. The method is characterized in that in the process of ammonia desorption, barren liquor at the bottom of a desorption tower (12) is sent into a reboiler (13) at the desorption tower bottom by a barren liquor circulating pump (14) at desorption tower bottom. The present method for recovering ammonia from mixed gas generated from hydrocyanic acid synthesis by Andrussow method skillfully utilizes the equipment companied with the suitable process conditions to realize high ammonia recovery efficiency, low operation cost, little loss of hydrocyanic acid, and hydrocyanic acid loss rate reduced from 1% in the existing technology to 0.4%, and is suitable for industrial recycling production.
In 1975, France will have manufactured 3.2 million tons of plastic materials which by pyrolysis, liberate chlorine, methyl chloride, hydrocyanic acid, hydrofluoric acid and other toxic gases. Now these materials are burnt in fires in "modern", buildings or vehicles , associated with fats (acrolein) and other gases and toxic industrial or household fumes which attack the lung. At sufficient dosage these agressive agents have first of all a "suffocating" action when in case of survival, a caustic and corrosive action. Pulmonary edema of the lesional type is met with at two stages in these cases. They are due to a direct action on the bronchial epithelium and an indirect action by disturbance of surfactant metabolism. It is an edema which is interstitial above all, and secondarily endo-alveolar. Study of the clinical, radiological, bronchoscopic and hemodynamic symptomatology. Differential diagnosis is not always easy. The possibility of burns of the respiratory pathways, blast, must be looked at. These elements can moreover be associated with lesions due to toxic inhalation. In case of survival the course is one of fibrosis with a restrictive syndrome.
The homogeneous thermal elimination of isothiocyanic acid from but-3-enyl and 1-methylprop-2-enyl isothiocyanates has been investigated in the ranges 30–300 mmHg and 240–390 °C. The primary process is unimolecular, although secondary reactions of the products are more extensive than in the case of the isothiocyanates previously studied. The temperature dependences of the rate constants are given by equations (i) and (ii) for the but-3-enyl and 1-methylprop-2-enyl cases respectively. The increased reactivity brought about by unsaturation log10k1/s–1= 12·40 ± 0·20 –(45,040 ± 320)/2·303 RT cal mol–1(i), log10k1/s–1= 11·84 ± 0·30 –(37,550 ± 750)/2·303 RT cal mol–1(ii) in the carbon skeleton is due mainly to the allylic weakening of the carbon–nitrogen bond whereas conjugation with the forming double bond is unimportant.
Nutritional and anti-nutritional composition of the African locust bean (Parkia biglobosa) fruit pulp were determined using standard methods. Results showed a moisture content of 8.41%, protein 6.56%, fat 1.80%, crude fibre 11.75%, ash. 4.18% and carbohydrate of 67.30%. Sugar content was found to be 9.00 °Brix; total caroteniods, 49,175ug/ 100g and ascorbic acid (Vitamin C) of 191.20mg/100g. Anti-nutritional factors/toxins analyzes showed a phytic acid content of 60.00mg/ l00g; crude saponins, 17.80mg/ 100g; tannins, 81.00mg/100g; total phenols, 204.60mg/ 100g and hydrocyanic acid (HCN) content of 17.30mg/ 100g. Keywords : Nutritional, anti-nutritional contents, toxins, African locust bean, fruit pulp. Nigerian Food Journal Vol. 25 (1) 2007: pp. 190-196
The thermal decomposition of urea has been studied under flow reactor conditions using a differential scanning calorimeter (DSC) and Fourier transformed infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR). Samples of urea were administered using either a cordierite monolith impregnated with a urea/water solution or a silica cup with a dry urea sample. The samples were heated between 25 and 700 degrees C with heating rates of 10 and 20 K/min and the thermal response of the sample and off gas concentrations of ammonia and isocyanic acid were recorded. Biuret and cyanuric acid were decomposed in a separate set of experiments to verify some of the features observed in gas phase data during urea decomposition. Results show that depending on the way the sample is administered, i.e. cup or monolith different behavior in the evolved gases are observed. This is due to different reactions taking place in the vessel induced by the different conditions under which the pyrolysis of urea is preformed. (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) are beneficial, naturally occurring, freeliving bacteria that colonize the plant rhizosphere, and they are different from legumerhizobia symbiosis, where the bacteria microsymbionts exist within discrete root structures (Kloepper & Schroth 1978; Kloepper et al. 2001; Bullied et al. 2002) . PGPR enhance the adaptive potential and nutrient uptake or solubilization of their host through a number of proposed mechanisms. Such mechanisms include the fixation of molecular nitrogen, the mobilization of recalcitrant soil nutrients, the control of phytopathogens, and the synthesis of phyto-hormones and vitamins (da Luz 2001 , citing Kloepper 1991 Kravchenko 2002) . Some bacteria strains directly regulate plant physiology by mimicking the synthesis of plant hormones, whereas others increase mineral and nitrogen availability in the soil (Ryu et al. 2003) . Soil mineralization, hydrocyanic acid, siderophores, and induction of resistance, have been suspected as having roles in plant growth-promotion (da Luz 2001; Polyanskaya et al. 2002) . Production of metabolites (auxins, cytokinins, and gibberellins), enhance the productivity of agricultural crops but could also improve crop quality by increasing the proteins, essential amino acids, and vitamins (Campbell 1985) . The contribution of a particular mechanism to the overall effect of introduced bacteria may depend on the physiology of plants and the agronomic conditions of the cultivation (Polyanskaya et al. 2002) .
Currently there are four front runners, namely the panspermia, vesicle, metabolism and genetic first hypotheses. Panspermia contends that life was primarily made elsewhere in the Universe and then was delivered, ready-made, on to the Earth; the hypothesis does not elaborate on how life was made in space and therefore falls outside the remit of this paper. In recent times the 'vesicle first hypothesis' has been gaining ground on the premise that some sort of a 'bag' was necessary in order to bring most of the necessary organic molecules into the vicinity of one another and cause them to react with each other. It has been put forward that such vesicles could either be made on the sea shores of early Earth or that long, up to 18C atoms, chains of hydrocarbons were delivered onto the Earth via meteorites, comets and asteroids. Also delivered would have been other "life friendly" chemicals, often termed biogenic molecules such as cyanate ions, OCN -; formyl radicals, HCO; methyl formate, H 3 COHCO; isocyanic acid, HNCO; formic acid, HCOOH; formamide, HCONH 2 ; formaldehyde, H 2 CO; and methane, CH 4 , which would have been made in the vastness of space [1-3]. As of April 2016,~190 molecules have been detected in both the interstellar medium and circumstellar envelope [4] . The metabolism first hypothesis promotes that simple biogenic monomers such as H 2 CO came first; this molecule is important during the formation of all important sugars (e.g., ribose). These monomers were made in the alkaline hydrothermal vents located on the sea floor (e.g., Lost City hydrothermal vent field in the mid-Atlantic Ocean). Proponents of this hypothesis have been able to simulate alkaline vents in the laboratory and have synthesised organic molecules, e.g., methanol (CH 3 OH) and formic, acetic (CH 3 COOH) and pyruvic (CH 3 COCOOH) acids from CO 2 dissolved in sea water, eventually leading to a more complex chemistry that gave rise to the origin of life [5] . Finally, the genetic first hypothesis upholds that an information system in the form of RNA came first, followed by proteins and then DNA. This hypothesis for the origin of life can be broadly divided into two phases; namely the preRNA and RNA chemistry worlds, although in reality no such distinct division exists; it is probably more akin to a continuum of reactions occurring individually, leading to pathways, to cycles and hypercyles with both positive and negative feedbacks and then self
Nutritional and anti-nutritional composition of the African locust bean (Parkia biglobosa) fruit pulp were determined using standard methods. Results showed a moisture content of 8.41%, protein 6.56%, fat 1.80%, crude fibre 11.75%, ash. 4.18% and carbohydrate of 67.30%. Sugar content was found to be 9.00 °Brix; total caroteniods, 49,175ug/ 100g and ascorbic acid (Vitamin C) of 191.20mg/100g. Anti-nutritional factors/toxins analyzes showed a phytic acid content of 60.00mg/ l00g; crude saponins, 17.80mg/ 100g; tannins, 81.00mg/100g; total phenols, 204.60mg/ 100g and hydrocyanic acid (HCN) content of 17.30mg/ 100g.
Abstract Headspace single-drop microextraction has been used for the determination of cyanide with ninhydrin in combination with fibre-optic-based cuvetteless microspectrophotometry which accommodates sample volume of 1 μL placed between the two ends of optical fibres, and has been found to avoid salient drawbacks of batch methods. This method involved hydrocyanic acid formation in a closed vial, and simultaneous extraction and reaction with 2 μL drop of ninhydrin in carbonate medium suspended at the tip of a microsyringe needle held in the headspace of the acidified sample solution. The method was linear in range 0.025–0.5 mg L−1 of cyanide. The headspace reaction was free from the interference of substances, e.g., thiocyanate, hydrazine sulphate, hydroxylammonium chloride and ascorbic acid. Sulphide was masked by cadmium sulphate, nitrite by sulphamic acid, sulphite by N-ethylmaleimide, and halogens by ascorbic acid. The limit of detection was found to be 4.3 μg L−1 of cyanide which was comparable to existing most sensitive methods for cyanide. However, the present method is far more simple. The method was applied to acid-labile and metal cyanides complexes by treatment with sulphide when metal sulphides were precipitated setting cyanide ion free, and to iron(II) and (III) cyanide complexes by their decomposition with mercury(II), the mercury(II) cyanide formed was then determined. These pre-treatment methods avoided cumbersome pre-separation of cyanide by methods such as distillation or gas diffusion. The overall recovery of cyanide in diverse samples was 97% with RSD of 3.9%.
Benzoic acids of natural origin were found at high concentrations (262.8-635.7ppm) in four samples of Japanese apricot extracts being introduced in the health food market. In view of data from experiments based on the general production method of Japanese apricot extracts, the above benzoic acids were considered to have been derived from amygdalin (a cyanogen glucoside) in the apricot kernel.During the production of Japanese apricot extracts, amygdalin is hydrolyzed even in acidic juice (about pH 3) by β-glucosidase present in the kernel. Amygdalin is transformed to a benzaldehyde when the acidic juice is being obtained by squeezing and filtration. The benzaldehyde is then oxidized to benzoic acid. Cyanic acids were also generated in the hydrolysis, but were easily volatilized and were not present in final juice. All those reactions were completed within the first four hours during processing. The benzaldehyde in the viscid final juice was determined by reverse-phase liquid chromatography after pretreatment.In order to eliminate cyanic and benzoic acids from the final extracts, kernels should not be allowed to remain in contact with the fruit juice during the production process.
Abstract Ammonium formate, methanamide and guanidinium salts were investigated in model gas experiments and found to be suitable ammonia precursor compounds for the selective catalytic reduction (SCR) of nitrogen oxides since they decompose to ammonia over different metal oxide catalysts. The decomposition of ammonium formate started with thermolysis to formic acid and ammonia. Formic acid reacted further, mainly to water and CO (decarbonylation), but CO 2 formation (decarboxylation) was also observed. Under unsuitable reaction conditions, methanamide may be formed from ammonia and formic acid in an amidation reaction, and HCN may be formed from methanamide by dehydration. When methanamide was used as a reducing agent, it was emitted undecomposed at temperatures below 250 °C and formed HCN as a side-product at temperatures above 350 °C. Among the tested guanidinium salts, guanidinium formate best met the requirements for a reducing agent in the SCR process, i.e., it decomposed at moderate temperatures with high selectivity, and it is highly water-soluble and stable when heated to 100 °C. For guanidinium formate, a similar decomposition mechanism is proposed as that for ammonium formate. First, guanidinium formate thermolyzes to guanidine and formic acid. Then, formic acid is decarbonylated and guanidine is assumed to hydrolyze in three steps, proceeding through urea and isocyanic acid (HNCO) as intermediates to the final product, ammonia. The formation of side-products was avoided for all three reducing agents when the reactor was filled with TiO 2 (anatase) as a catalyst and operated at 275–350 °C at low space velocities.
Summary ::: Laboratory tests were designed for preliminary evaluation of compounds as repellents and toxicants for the protection of persons from fleas and ticks. Materials were desired that would be effective when applied to the clothing, and would remain effective through several days of wear or even through repeated washings. Elimination of the less effective compounds was rapidly accomplished by screening tests with small patches of treated cloth. Materials that were effective in the screening tests were further tested by applications to sleeves, stockings, or socks, which were worn in the presence of an infestation of fleas or ticks. Their safety for practical use has not yet been determined. ::: The toxicants most effective and durable against both fleas and ticks were 3,5-dinitro-o-cresol, dinitro-o-sec-butylphenol, 95-per cent gamma-benzene hexachloride, and Lethane A-70 (beta, beta'-dithiocyanodiethyl ether). Nicotine alkaloid gave an exceptionally short knock-down time against both species. Chlordan, p-tolyl benzyl ether, omega-piperidinodecylbenzene, the p-dimethyl-aminophenyl ester of thiocyanic acid, and n-capric acid were also especially effective against fleas, and 2,4-dinitrophenol, laurylcyclohexylamine, n-amylvalone, the p-dimethylaminophenyl ester of thiocyanic acid, and the lauryl ester of thiocyanic acid against ticks. ::: The most effective repellents were the N-(mixed monamyl)- and N-(n-amyl)-imides of 1,2-dicarboxy-3,6-endomethylene-4-cyclohexene, the tributyl ester of phosphoric acid, 4-chloro-3,5-xylenol, N-n-butylacetanilide, diethyl ester of phthalic acid, o-n-hexyloxybenzyl alcohol, the monocaproic acid ester of 1,5-pentanediol, n-capric acid, and p-iso-pentoxybenzyl alcohol.
The invention relates to a filter additive material for selectively reducing the hydrocyanic acid emission amount in the mainstream smoke of cigarettes and a preparation method thereof. The filter additive material for selectively reducing the hydrocyanic acid emission amount in the mainstream smoke of cigarettes is characterized in that the filter additive material is a novel material that can effectively absorb acidic gas and is obtained by chemically modifying a porous material and introducing different alkali groups. The preparation method of the filter additive material comprises the following steps: respectively carrying out surface chemical modification on the selected porous carrier material with trimethylamine chloride acethydrazide or (2-bromomethyl)trimethyl ammonium bromide, soaking with sodium hydroxide solution, washing with water and drying to obtain the modified porous material containing ammonium hydroxide group. Adding the material in a cigarette filter rod can reducethe hydrocyanic acid content in the mainstream smoke of cigarette by more than 30%, and no negative influence is caused on the taste quality of cigarette, thus achieving the purpose of selectively reducing harm.
Benzanilide ::: ::: ::: ::: Dichloromethane ::: ::: ::: ::: 2-Chloropyridine ::: ::: ::: ::: Trifluoromethanesulfonic anhydride ::: ::: ::: ::: Thiocyanic acid methyl ester ::: ::: ::: ::: p-Methoxyphenylacetylene ::: ::: ::: Keywords: ::: ::: Direct synthesis; ::: Azaheterocycles; ::: Condensative synthesis; ::: Pyrimidene derivatives; ::: Subambient temperatures; ::: Nucleophiles; ::: Mechanism; ::: Amides; ::: Safety; ::: Waste disposal
A total of 360 bacteria, isolated from the rhizospheres of a system of rice intensification (SRI) fields, were characterized for the production of siderophore, fluorescence, indole acetic acid (IAA), hydrocyanic acid (HCN) and solubilization of phosphorus. Of them, seven most promising isolates (SRI-156, -158, -178, -211, -229, -305 and -360) were screened for their antagonistic potential against Macrophomina phaseolina (causes charcoal rot in sorghum) by dual culture assay, blotter paper assay and in greenhouse. All the seven isolates inhibited M. phaseolina in dual culture assay, whereas six isolates solubilized phosphorous (except SRI-360), all seven produced siderophore, four produced fluorescence (except SRI-178, -229 and -305), six produced IAA (except SRI-305) and five produced HCN (except SRI-158 and -305). In the blotter paper assay, no charcoal rot infection was observed in SRI-156-treated sorghum roots, indicating complete inhibition of the pathogen, while the roots treated with the other isolates showed 49–76% lesser charcoal rot infection compared to the control. In the antifungal activity test (in green house on sorghum), all the isolates increased shoot dry mass by 15–23% and root dry mass by 15–20% (except SRI-158 and -360), over the control. In order to confirm the plant growth-promoting (PGP) traits of the isolates, the green house experiment was repeated but, in the absence of M. phaseolina. The results further confirmed the PGP traits of the isolates as evidenced by increases in shoot and root dry mass, 22–100% and 5–20%, respectively, over the control. The sequences of 16S rDNA gene of the isolates SRI-156, -158, -178, -211, -229, -305 and -360 were matched with Pseudomonas plecoglossicida, Brevibacterium antiquum, Bacillus altitudinis, Enterobacter ludwigii, E. ludwigii, Acinetobacter tandoii and P. monteilii, respectively in BLAST analysis. This study indicates that the selected bacterial isolates have the potential for PGP and control of charcoal rot disease in sorghum.
Paul Gabriel Hautefeuille (1836-1902) carried on a large number of significant researches, alone or with Deville, Troost, Chappuis, and other colleagues, in the areas of mineralogy, crystallization, synthetic reproduction of natural crystals, allotropy, combination of hydrogen with sodium, potassium, and palladium, ozone, its properties and liquefaction, dissociation, conversion of cyanogens into paracyanogen and cyanic acid into cyanuric acid, and phosphoric acid, phosphorus, and phosphates.
Context Feeding ruminants with fresh cassava roots (FCR) is limited because they have a high concentration of hydrocyanic acid (HCN). Thus, it was hypothesised that receiving a feed block containing high sulfur (FBS) would reduce hydrocyanic acid (HCN) in FCR and improve rumen fermentation and nutrient digestibility in animals. Aims The goal of the present work was to study the influence of the ratio of FCR to rice straw (RS) together with FBS on kinetics of gas production, HCN concentration, fermentation characteristics and nutrient digestibility, using in vitro technique. Methods The experimental design was a 4 × 2 factorial arrangement in a completely randomised design, with three replications per treatment. Factor A was the FCR to RS ratio, which was 100 : 0, 60 : 40, 40 : 60 or 0 : 100. Factor B was sulfur, which was provided as two concentrations in FBS (2% and 4% DM). Gas production was recorded after incubation, at 0, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 12, 18, 24, 48, 72 and 96 h. Fermentation liquor was collected and determined for kinetics of gas production, HCN concentration, fermentation characteristics and nutrient digestibility. Key results Cassava root to RS ratio influenced the cumulative gas production after 96 h. Inclusion of sulfur in the FBS at 4% increased the cumulative gas production, when compared with inclusion at 2%. The gas production from degradable fraction (b) and the rate of gas production (c) were significantly different among the treatments with different FCR : RS ratios, whereas there was no difference between using 2% and 4% sulfur in the FBS. The HCN concentration in fermentation liquor increased with an increasing proportion of FCR. Furthermore, inclusion of sulfur in the feed block at 4% reduced HCN concentration by 42.8%, when compared with inclusion at 2% (P < 0.05). Ammonia-nitrogen concentration was significantly different among the FCR : RS-ratio treatments and was reduced when the proportion of FCR was decreased (P < 0.05). In vitro digestibility was significantly increased with an increasing proportion of FCR. Increasing the proportion of FCR with 4% of sulfur in the FBS significantly increased in vitro DM digestibility, compared with 2% sulfur. Increasing the FCR : RS ratio with 4% of sulfur in the FBS increased the proportion of propionic acid (P < 0.05). Conclusions Using a high FCR : RS ratio (100 : 0 or 60 : 40) with 4% sulfur in the FBS enhanced kinetics of gas production, propionic molar proportion, nutrient digestibility, and HCN detoxification by rumen microbes in an in vitro trial. Implications An in vivo study should be encouraged to verify the results and obtain more data.
Sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench ‘Early Hegari’] seedlings were grown in nutrient solutions with various combinations of chlorides, nitrates, sulfates, and phosphates (dihydrogen) of ammonium, potassium, calcium, and magnesium to determine the effects of the mineral elements on hydrocyanic acid potential (HCN-p) in leaves. ::: Growth was maximum or near maximum for the shoots of sorghum seedlings at 1 to 30 meq salt in solution and for the roots at 0.3 to 3 meq. The duration of exposure of seedlings to the treatment solution required for significant changes in HCN-p was at least 2 days. The effects of various concentrations of individual salts on HCN-p were: KCl, a slight decrease; K2SO4, NH4Cl, NH4NO3, (NH4)2SO4, NH4H2PO4, and KH2PO4)2, an increase; and KNO3, CaCl2, Ca(NO3)2, CaSO4, MgCl2, Mg(NO3)2, and MgSO4, no significant effect. When potassium and ammonium salts of a common anion were added in 3 × 3 factorial experiments, increasing levels of ammonium salts at the 1X potassium level generally increased HCN-p, but varied effects of higher levels of potassium salts were observed. In factorial experiments, different levels of pairs of potassium salts of the various anion had no significant effect on HCN-p. In experiments with pairs of ammonium salts, increases in salt concentration generally increased HCN-p. It was concluded that large changes in salt concentration affected alterations in HCN-p were associated with changes in ammonium salt levels
Abstract A series of bisquaternary ammonium-biscyanohydrin compounds were found to be potent neuromuscular blocking agents of the tubocurarine type when assessed in the sciatic nerve-gastrocnemius muscle of the chicken and in the isolated phrenic nerve-diaphragm of the rat. When the cyano group was not present in the molecule, the potency decreased several fold. This phenomenon was greater with the unsubstituted alcohol than with the acetyl or benzoyl derivatives. Presumably, it was due to the interference of the latter radicals with the liberation of cyanide from the molecule. Sodium nitrite did not modify the toxicity of the cyanohydrin, but sodium thiosulfate, hydroxocobalamin and their combination were antagonistic. Titrimetric studies revealed that cyanide is released in vitro . The presence of an amine in the cyanohydrin solution greatly increased the amount of cyanide that was liberated. It was concluded that the increased potency observed in compounds possessing an easily-releasable cyanide was not owing completely to a configurational change introduced by the presence of the nitrile, but rather was the result of a localized release of hydrocyanic acid.
Inadequate supply, exorbitant prices and diversion towards using cereal grains for biofuel production, particularly maize, has led to a constant search for alternative energy sources for poultry and other non-ruminant species. The abundant availability of cassava in certain regions makes it a good alternative to maize and other cereal grains. Cassava root meal is rich in carbohydrate but low in protein and all other nutrients, whereas, cassava leaf meal is a moderate source of protein. Results of studies to evaluate the replacement of cereals with cassava products in poultry feed show wide variability due to differences in origin, variety, plant maturity at harvest, ecological conditions of plant growth and processing methods. Cassava products contain a wide range of cyanogenetic glycosides, particularly linamarin and lotaustralin. The level of hydrocyanic acid released from the cyanogenetic glycosides limits the utilization of cassava, but with proper processing, the dietary inclusion level of cassava meal can be increased for economic poultry production. This paper reviews the nutrient composition of cassava and its uses as a substitute for more conventional ingredients in poultry diets.
The invention relates to the field of synthetic medicament, and in particular relates to a preparation method of medicament toltrazuril for preventing and treating poultry coccidiosis. The preparation method comprises the following steps: carrying out condensation and catalytic hydrogenation reduction reaction in the presence of a palladium catalyst on 4-[(trifluoromethyl)thio]-phenol and 2-chloride-5-nitrotoluene which are utilized as raw materials; then carrying out isocyanic acid esterification reaction on the reactant and di-tert-butyl dicarbonate; and finally, reacting the reactant obtained in the former step with methyl urea and diethyl carbonate so as to obtain the toltrazuril. The toltrazuril preparation method provided by the invention has the advantages that the operation is simple, required equipment is simple, pollution is less, raw materials are easily available, the cost is low, the yield is high, and the total yield of the finished product is about 50%.
Double and triple ionization spectra of isocyanic acid have been measured using multi-electron and ion coincidence techniques combined with synchrotron radiation and compared with high-level theoretical calculations. Vertical double ionization at an energy of 32.8+/-0.3 eV forms the 3A'' ground state in which the HNCO2+ ion is long-lived. The vertical triple ionization energy is determined as 65+/-1 eV. The core-valence double ionization spectra resemble the valence photoelectron spectrum in form, and their main features can be understood on the basis of a simple and rather widely applicable Coulomb model based on the characteristics of the molecular orbitals from which electrons are removed. Characteristics of the most important dissociation channels are examined and discussed.
1. Hydrogen sulphide inhaled, or sulphide or H2S injected in solution into the circulation, is carried for a time in the plasma in the form of an equilibrium mixture of sulphide and H2S. It only slowly penetrates into the red cells, where it is destroyed in reactions in which oxyhaemoglobin is reduced. The lethal dose of H2S will therefore vary according to the rate and site of its administration. ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. The physiological effects of hydrogen sulphide and other sulphides are similar to those of hydrocyanic acid, probably for the reason that both fix the iron in cytochrome A3, so reducing the oxygen intake of cells, and especially of nerve cells. ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. The most conspicuous actions of sulphides are on the nerve centres, which are first stimulated and then paralysed. The actions are reversible. ::: ::: ::: ::: 4. Because of the slow penetration of the red cells by H2S, or by the HS ion, the removal of sulphides from the plasma and their subsequent destruction is relatively slow, so that injections into the blood stream at sites from which the nerve centres are soon reached are more potent than those made at more remote places. ::: ::: ::: ::: 5. The reduction of oxyhaemoglobin resulting from the action of sulphides is reversible, and this is probably true also for the cytochrome A3. The action is therefore reversible, and the main treatment indicated is the application of artificial respiration.
Due to its high adaptability, cassava (Manihot esculenta Crantz) is one of the world’s most cultivated and consumed plants after maize and rice. However, there are relatively few scientific studies on this important crop. The objective of this review was therefore to summarize and discuss the available information on cassava cropping in order to promote sustainable practices in terms of production and consumption. Cassava cultivation has been expanding recently at the global scale and is widely consumed in most regions of South America, Africa, and Asia. However, it is also characterized by the presence in its roots of potentially toxic hydrocyanic acid. Furthermore, cassava can also absorb pollutants as it is currently cultivated near roads or factories and generally without consideration for potential sources of soil, water, or atmospheric pollution. Careful washing, peeling, and adequate preparation before eating are therefore crucial steps for reducing human exposure to both environmental pollutants and natural hydrocyanic acid. At present, there is not enough precise data available on this staple food crop. To improve our knowledge on the nutritive benefits versus health risks associated with cassava consumption, further research is necessary to compare cassava cultivars and precisely study the influence of preparation methods.
This work was carried out to determine the proximate composition, mineral elements, vitamins and anti-nutrients of Aneilema aequinoctiale. The results from the proximate analysis indicate that the plant contained some important nutrients such as carbohydrate 46.02 ± 0.01%, lipid 29.68 ± 0.01%, crude protein 17.05 ± 0.01%, crude fibre 1.34 ± 0.02% and had Caloric value of 519.37±0.02 kcal. The mineral element analyzed were Calcium (Ca) 232.90 ± 0.01mg/kg, Iron (Fe) 154.39 ± 0.02mg/kg, Potassium (K) 147.62 ± 0.02mg/kg, Cadmium (Cd) 0.49 ± 0.02mg/kg and Copper (Cu) 0.68 ± 0.11mg/kg. The anti-nutrient analysis revealed that the plant contained 4.34 ± 0.03 mg/100g hydrocyanic acid, 378.39 ± 0.01mg/100g soluble oxalate and 857 ± 1.4mg/100g total oxalates, while phytate had a value of 0.08±0.02mg/100g. Vitamins analysis showed the presence of vitamin C (ascorbic acid) 0.73 ± 0.04mg/100g, and vitamin A (retinol) 0.32±0.02mg/100g.
Abstract A total of 360 bacteria, isolated from the rhizospheres of a system of rice intensification (SRI) fields, were characterized for the production of siderophore, fluorescence, indole acetic acid (IAA), hydrocyanic acid (HCN) and solubilization of phosphorus. Of them, seven most promising isolates were screened for their antagonistic potential against Macrophomina phaseolina (causes charcoal rot in sorghum) by dual culture assay, blotter paper assay and in greenhouse. All the seven isolates inhibited M. phaseolina in dual culture assay, whereas six isolates solubilized phosphorous (except SRI-360), all seven produced siderophore, four produced fluorescence (except SRI-178, -229 and -305), six produced IAA (except SRI-305) and five produced HCN (except SRI-158 and -305). In the blotter paper assay, no charcoal rot infection was observed in SRI-156-treated sorghum roots, indicating complete inhibition of the pathogen, while the roots treated with the other isolates showed 49-76% lesser charcoal rot infection compared to the control. In the antifungal activity test (in green house on sorghum), all the isolates increased shoot dry mass by 15-23% and root dry mass by 15-20% (except SRI-158 and -360), over the control. In order to confirm the plant growth-promoting (PGP) traits of the isolates, the green house experiment was repeated but, in the absence of M. phaseolina. The results further confirmed the PGP traits of the isolates as evidenced by increases in shoot and root dry mass, 22-100% and 5-20%, respectively, over the control. The sequences of 16S rDNA gene of the isolates were matched with Pseudomonas plecoglossicida, Brevibacterium antiquum, Bacillus altitudinis, Enterobacter ludwigii, E. ludwigii, Acinetobacter tandoii and P. monteilii, respectively in BLAST analysis. This study indicates that the selected bacterial isolates have the potential for PGP and control of charcoal rot disease in sorghum.
Plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) has been reported not only to improve plant growth but also to suppress the plant pathogens, of which Pseudomonas spp. and Bacillus spp. are important as these are aggressive colonizers of the rhizosphere of various crops and have broad spectrum of antagonistic activity against many pathogens (Weller et al. 2002) . Biocontrol bacterial species generally employ an array of mechanisms such as antibiosis, competition, production of hydrocyanic acid, siderophore, fluorescent pigments and antifungal compounds to antagonize pathogens (Singh et al. 2006) . It is a wellknown fact that actively growing microbes are greater in number in the rhizosphere as crop plants release root exudates that contribute, in addition, to simple and complex sugars and growth regulators, contain different classes of primary and secondary compounds including amino acids, organic acids, phenolic acids, flavonoids, enzymes, fatty acids, nucleotides, tannins, steroids, terpenoids, alkaloids and vitamins (Uren 2000) . Researchers around the world attempted to isolate PGPR organisms from the rhizospheres of crop plants and the compost (Khalid et al. 2004 ). An unpublished study suggested that microbial strains isolated from the rhizospheres of upland rice and system of rice intensification (SRI) fields were antagonistic to plant pathogenic fungi. This study was therefore undertaken to know if it was true for M. phaseolina that causes charcoal rot of sorghum. In the SRI method of rice cultivation a set of agronomic practices are followed such as transplanting young seedlings, wider spacing, less synthetic fertilizer and growing plants in no standing water except transplanting (Kumar et al. 2010; Uphoff 2001) . The objective of this study was to evaluate bacterial isolates, from the rice rhizosphere, for their ability to suppress M. phaseolina, which causes charcoal rot in sorghum and to improve the growth of sorghum with and without the disease-causing agent.
Double and triple ionization spectra of isocyanic acid have been measured using multielectron and ion coincidence techniques combined with synchrotron radiation and compared with high-level theoretical calculations. Vertical double ionization at an energy of 32.8±0.3 eV forms the 3 A'' ground state in which the HNCO 2+ ion is long-lived. The vertical triple ionization energy is determined as 65±1 eV. The core-valence double ionization spectra resemble the valence photoelectron spectrum in form, and their main features can be understood on the basis of a simple and rather widely applicable Coulomb model based on the characteristics of the molecular orbitals from which electrons are removed. Characteristics of the most important dissociation channels are examined and discussed.
Because of the importance of isocyanic acid, HNCO, in terrestrial environments [1] [2] [3] and in the interstellar medium [4] , spectra of this molecule and its singly charged ion HNCO + have been widely studied both experimentally and theoretically. A rather complete listing of the earlier spectroscopic work is given in a recent paper by Holzmeier et al. [5] on its normal and resonant Auger spectra. The electronic and geometric structure of neutral HNCO and of its three most stable isomers have been calculated [6, 7] , as has the structure of the singly positive ion [8, 9] . The dynamics of fragmentation of its positive ions both singly and doubly charged have long been studied by mass-spectrometric methods [10, 11] and more recently by coincidence methods [8, 12] . The states of the singly charged ions, seen in the photoelectron spectrum, could be correlated to the dissociation pathways [8] , but this was not possible for the doubly charged ions [12] as no spectroscopic information on them existed at that time. We now report spectra of its double and triple ionization by photon impact, obtained using a multi-electron coincidence technique combined with synchrotron radiation in the soft X-ray region.
Abstract Due to its high adaptability, cassava (Manihot esculenta Crantz) is one of the world's most cultivated and consumed plants after maize and rice. However, there are relatively few scientific studies on this important crop. The objective of this review was therefore to summarize and discuss the available information on cassava cropping in order to promote sustainable practices in terms of production and consumption. Cassava cultivation has been expanding recently at the global scale and is widely consumed in most regions of South America, Africa, and Asia. However, it is also characterized by the presence in its roots of potentially toxic hydrocyanic acid. Furthermore, cassava can also absorb pollutants as it is currently cultivated near roads or factories and generally without consideration for potential sources of soil, water, or atmospheric pollution. Careful washing, peeling, and adequate preparation before eating are therefore crucial steps for reducing human exposure to both environmental pollutants and natural hydrocyanic acid. At present, there is not enough precise data available on this staple food crop. To improve our knowledge on the nutritive benefits versus health risks associated with cassava consumption, further research is necessary to compare cassava cultivars and precisely study the influence of preparation methods.
AbstractTwo diﬀerent iron exchanged zeolites were studied for the hydrolysis of isocyanic acid (HNCO) to ammonia, which is an importantintermediate step in the selective catalytic reduction (SCR) of NO with urea. The hydrolysis reaction proceeded with very high activityand selectivity on over-exchanged as well as low-exchanged Fe-ZSM5 catalyst samples. The hydrolysis activity of the catalysts was inver-sely correlated with their Bronsted acidity, which decreased with the degree of iron exchange and the degree of ageing. Thus, over-exchanged Fe-ZSM5 had the highest activity, which even increased when the catalyst was aged. 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. Keywords: HNCO hydrolysis; Fe-ZSM5; Urea-SCR; NO x 1. IntroductionThe selective catalytic reduction with ammonia (NH 3 SCR) is widely used to reduce NO x emissions from station-ary combustion processes [1]. This DeNOx technology isalso suitable for diesel vehicles, but ammonia has beensubstituted by an aqueous urea solution (urea SCR) dueto safety reasons [2]. In the hot exhaust gas of the dieselengine, injected urea is decomposed to isocyanic acid(HNCO) which is a stable compound in the gas phase.Therefore, a catalyst is required to hydrolyse the intermedi-ate compound HNCO to the actual reducing agent ammo-nia in the humid exhaust gas. If no speciﬁc hydrolysiscatalyst shall be used in front of the SCR catalysts, theSCR catalyst itself must exhibit high hydrolysis activity.For the well-established V
The absorption spectra of gaseous isocyanic acid, methyl, ethyl and phenyl isocyanates have been observed in the ultraviolet. The long wavelength limits of the continuous absorption found were as follows: HNCO, λ2240; CH3NCO, λ2550; C2H5NCO, λ2480; C6H5NCO, λ2420A. In the case of isocyanic acid, diffuse bands were also found in the region λλ2570–2250A. Characteristic absorption bands due to an excitation in the benzene ring were found in phenyl isocyanate. The structures are probably represented by the formulae H–N=C=O, CH3–N=C=O, C2H5–N=C=O, C6H5–N=C=O. The products and energies of dissociation have been described. The absence of the characteristic absorption due to =C=0 has also been discussed.
The potential energy surface of protonated uracil has been explored by an automated transition state search procedure, resulting in the finding of 1398 stationary points and 751 reactive channels, which can be categorized into isomerizations between pairs of isomers, unimolecular fragmentations and bimolecular reactions. The use of statistical Rice–Ramsperger–Kassel–Marcus (RRKM) theory and Kinetic Monte Carlo (KMC) simulations allowed us to determine the relative abundances of each fragmentation channel as a function of the ion's internal energy. The KMC/RRKM product abundances are compared with novel mass spectrometry (MS) experiments in the collision energy range 1–6 eV. To facilitate the comparison between theory and experiments, further dynamics simulations are carried out to determine the fraction of collision energy converted into the ion's internal energy. The KMC simulations show that the major fragmentation channels are isocyanic acid and ammonia losses, in good agreement with experiments. The third predominant channel is water loss according to both theory and experiments, although the abundance obtained in the KMC simulations is very low, suggesting that non-statistical dynamics might play an important role in this channel. Isocyanic acid (HNCOH+) is also an important product in the KMC simulations, although its abundance is only significant at internal energies not accessible in the MS experiments.
Abstract Extraction of La(III), Eu(III), Lu(III) and Am(III) from 1M NH4SCN at pH ∼ 2·8 by tri-n-octyl-phosphine oxide (TOPO), tri-n-butyl phosphine oxide (TBPO), and tri-n-butyl phosphate (TBP) in xylene medium has been studied. In this connection extraction of thiocyanic acid from 1M NH4SCN in the pH range of ∼ 2 to ∼ 3 by the three extractants in xylene has also been investigated. It has been found that thiocyanic acid is extracted as HSCN . R3PO by the three extractants and equilibrium constants for this extraction have been calculated. The metal ions are extracted as neutral, solvated, probably anhydrous species M(SCN)3.XR3PO, X in general having the values of 4 and 3 for the lighter and the heavier lanthanides respectively. The complexes Nd(SCN)3. 4TOPO and Er(SCN)3. 3TOPO have been prepared and their absorption spectra has been recorded.
Abstract Coal-fire gas jets emanating from waste heaps are chemically very complex and variable mixtures, as proved by our former studies. The current paper is a result of further exploration of the GASMET FTIR system via an iterative external databases search. This allowed to pinpoint a number of subsequent chemicals, both in terms of (semi)quantitative analysis and occurrence probability (fit). Some compounds represent new finds. The most likely candidates found, with fit often >90%, are C N compounds – especially hydrogen cyanide and isocyanic acid; acetylene, various alcohols, monoterpenes, formic acid. Acetaldehyde is the most common aldehyde, followed by 2-ethylhexylaldehyde. Tetrachloroethylene quite commonly occurs, but with worse fit values. An interesting find concerns methane- and ethanethiol being enriched at a vent with an intense and cumulative sulfur (S8) mineralization. Other less frequent or worse fit compounds include arenes, COS, some alcohol derivatives, other aldehydes, hydrocarbons, nitriles (acrylonitrile), ketones, acetates, ethers, acetone, acrolein (propenal), triethylamine, and methyl metacrylate. Important and relatively frequent inorganic gas is PH3, while SF6 is very rare. However, the occurrence of the later seems to be a very important discovery: SF6 is recognized by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change as the most potent greenhouse gas.
Although some important progress has been made on variety introducing and breeding,high-yield cultivation of cassava in recent years,there are still some gaps between the status of fine varieties extension and the industrial development needs of cassava.The status of Chinese major cassava cultivars collected from multiple geographies was analyzed from several aspects,such as yield,starch content,dry matter content,hydrocyanic acid content and the resistance properties,and some suggestions on the application of these particular varieties were put forward.
The reaction of urea with ZnO was investigated by FTIR and TPD. It was found that urea was thermally decomposed into isocyanic acid on ZnO, and the adsorbed isocyanic acid reacted with ZnO to form zinc isocyanate. Catalytic evaluation showed that ZnO had high activity towards urea methanolysis in a batch reactor, and zinc element and isocyanate were all detected in the product solution. Furthermore, the soluble zinc content was proportional to the DMC yield. Sample analyses suggested that the soluble zinc existed in the form of Zn(NCO) 2 (NH 3 ) 2 , which originated from the reaction of ZnO with urea. It was the complex (not ZnO) that catalyzed the urea methanolysis. Based on these observations, a possible mechanism was suggested.
The invention concerns a method for making ketone methyl ethyl cyanohydrin of formula (I) characterised in that it consists in reacting hydrocyanic acid and ketone methyl ethyl in the presence of diethylamine as catalyst.
Abstract The production of ammonia from urea was investigated in a fluidized bed reactor in order to avoid the formation of N 2 O in the selective non-catalytic reduction (SNCR) process, which occurs when urea is directly injected into an SNCR reactor. Among about 20 tested materials, γ-Al 2 O 3 proved to be the best suited as a fluidized bed material due to its high catalytic activity as well as relatively good stability. Even better catalytic results were obtained with titanium oxide, which was, however, much less attrition resistant than the aluminum oxides. Silicon dioxide and silicates showed only a weak catalytic effect. The tested molecular sieves and zeolites showed catalytic results between those of silicates and alumina. The results of the catalytic tests are in accordance with a two-step mechanism: urea rapidly decomposes to ammonia and isocyanic acid initiated by simple heat transfer from the fluidized material, followed by the rate-determining catalytic hydrolysis of isocyanic acid. The screening showed that a compromise had to be found for the catalytically active fluidized bed material, since good catalytic properties require high surface areas, which is in conflict with the desired high abrasion resistance of the material. Scale-up experiments in the pilot plant with γ-Al 2 O 3 “CAT 250” as the best material among the screening experiments demonstrated that it is possible and straightforward to thermohydrolyze 10.6 kg/h of urea to 6 kg/h ammonia. Gas analyses of the product gas showed that urea was almost completely converted and that only minuscule amounts of isocyanic acid were formed.
P rotein citrullination or deimination is a post-translational modification (PTM) converting certain arginines to citrullines [1] . While citrullination was proved to be crucial in myelinization, immune and gene regulation, as well as in skin homeostasis, both hypercitrullination and hypocitrullination have been linked to pathological conditions in humans and animals too [2] . The strongest evidence is for the involvement in rheumatoid arthritis in which autoimmune response is triggered against citrullinated proteins [2] [3] . Further associations have been found in multiple sclerosis [4] [5] , other neurodegenerative diseases [6] [7] , cancer [8] [9] , and heart failure [10] . The modification results in a loss of a positive charge and a small increase in molecular mass (0.9840 Da) per occurrence, which could lead to alteration in protein function and structure. Characterization of this low-abundance PTM by LC-MS experiments is still problematic [11] [12] . A selective loss of isocyanic acid (HNCO) was previously observed for deiminated peptides upon collision-induced dissociation (CID) by Hao et al. [13] by which discrimination between citrullination and the isobaric transition, deamidation of Asn and Gln residues might have become possible via MS/MS. An alternative of CID, electrontransfer dissociation (ETD) technique usually results in better sequence coverage; however, a selective neutral loss for deiminated peptides in ETD is lacking [14] . Creese et al. used the neutral loss of isocyanic acid as a marker to select parent ions for a further ETD fragmentation process by supplemental activation (saETD) [15] . Although false positive hits were eliminated this way, false negative rate was still substantial; therefore, optimization of MS/MS identification of deiminated residues is still a key research field.
Carbamylation and glycation are well-known post-translational modifications which occur throughout the lifespan of proteins in vivo. They are due to the non-enzymatic binding of various low molecular weight molecules to the free amino groups where lysine is reported as being the commonly involved amino acid (1) . Carbamylation results from the binding of isocyanic acid, spontaneously deriving from high concentration of urea and leading to the formation of homocitrulline from lysine residues (2) . Glycation is initiated by spontaneous binding of carbonyl groups of reducing sugars to form Schiff bases and then Amadori products. These products undergo further complex reactions that induce the formation of stable adducts and cross-links of proteins currently called advanced glycation endproducts (AGE) (3, 4) . These post-translational modifications of proteins have been described in pathological as well in physiological circumstances and in both cases they are suggested to be associated to cancer development. High blood concentrations of urea leading to the carbamylation process were detected in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) (2) . Those patients on dialysis show a higher prevalence for renal cell carcinoma (RCC) than age-matched healthy controls (5) . In a similar way, AGE concentration is increased in tissues of elderly people or in diabetic patients (6) ; two situations highly correlated to cancer. The incidence of cancers rises markedly in patients of advanced age (7) where tumors are less metastatic than those in younger patients (8) . In addition, recent studies suggested that diabetes is associated with an increased risk of cancers of the liver, pancreas, colon, kidney and breast (9) .
Abstract The pH rate profile for uncatalyzed formation of a complex between cyanide and sperm whale ferrimyoglobin at 25° and total ionic strength 0.11 has been established over the pH range 5 to 11 utilizing an integrated reversible second order rate equation of general applicability. The profile may be interpreted as reflecting three important routes for complex formation: (a) addition of cyanide ion to an unprotonated myoglobin, (b) addition of hydrocyanic acid to the unprotonated myoglobin (or the kinetically indistinguishable addition of cyanide ion to a protonated myoglobin), and (c) addition of hydrocyanic acid to the protonated myoglobin. Complex formation is strongly subject to catalysis by certain buffers: catalysis is most evident at intermediate values of pH and becomes negligible below pH 6 and above pH 10. Effective buffers include phosphate, glycine, and cyanide itself. Other buffers with forms capable of simultaneously accepting 2 protons through hydrogen bonding are also effective. Addition of cyanide to ferrimyoglobins from pilot whale, porpoise, and harbor seal is also subject to buffer catalysis. Guanidination of sperm whale ferrimyoglobin and carboxymethylation in the crystalline state have only small effects on the reactivity of the protein toward cyanide or on the sensitivity of this reaction to buffer catalysis. Carboxymethylation in solution, in contrast, markedly reduces reactivity toward cyanide. The hypothesis is developed that the buffer-binding site may lie between arginine-45 and histidine-64. A reasonable mechanism for the buffer catalysis is proposed.
Nitrate reductase activity in plants has been suggested as a sensitive indicator of water stress. We studied nitrate reductase activities in sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L. Moench cv. ‘Pioneer #846’) using in vivo assay and compared activities by leaf position on culms and various positions on leaves — through diurnal and seasonal trends (from stalk elongation to maturity, 1971). We related leaf water potential (measured with pressure bomb) and atmospheric demand for water (solar radiation measured with a pyranometer) with nitrate reductase activity. Nitrate reductase activity was highest in the upper, fullyexpanded leaves — in the flag leaf at the 5.5 stage of physiological development. We also compared relative amounts of hydrocyanic acid in sorghum, which other workers have observed in relation to physiological age, with seasonal nitrate reductase activities. Diurnal water stress (shown as leaf water potential hi relation to high solar radiation) lowered nitrate reductase activity. Nitrate reductase activity decreases as plant age and water stress increases and likely decreases as hydrocyanic acid increases
Buta-1,3-dienyl thiocyanic acid ester reacts with acryloyl chloride in presence of Lewis acid catalysts to produce directly the rearranged product of type 3bvia a combination of a Diels-Alder reaction with a [3,3] sigmatropic shift; the 1,4-substituted cyclohexene is easily transformed into the 2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]oct-5-ene derivative 6b, which has been used as precursor for the synthesis of the Ibogamin skeleton.
Cyanide, hydrocyanic acid, hydrogen cyanide (HCN), and prussic acid are all terms relating to the same toxic principle. Cyanide salts are used in metal cleaning, hardening, refining, and in the recovery of gold from ores. Burning nitrogen-based polymers used in plastics, fabrics, and seat covers releases HCN. Cyanide blocks molecular oxygen transfer in cytochrome oxidase systems in mitochondria causing tissue anoxia. These compounds probably developed as a defense against excessive grazing by herbivores. Only a few of these plants are a significant risk to livestock. Some are grasses cultivated as forage for livestock and horses and others are ornamentals, commercial fruit trees, shrubs, weeds, and range plants. All animal species are susceptible to cyanide poisoning. The ability of rumen microbial flora to rapidly hydrolyze cyanogenic glycosides makes ruminants particularly at risk of cyanide intoxication from plant sources. Cyanide poisoning is an uncommon event in livestock production, but the potential for sudden economic loss to individual farmers and ranchers is significant. Veterinarians, agricultural educators, and consultants should continue to remind clientele of the risks to ruminant species associated with forages, shrubs, and trees of known cyanide potential.
Abstract Background: Cyanogenesis is a defense process of several thousand plant species. Hydroxynitrile lyase, a key enzyme of this process, cleaves a cyanohydrin into hydrocyanic acid and the corresponding aldehyde or ketone. The reverse reaction constitutes an important tool in biocatalysis. Different classes of hydroxynitrile lyases have convergently evolved from FAD-dependent oxidoreductases, α/β hydrolases, and alcohol dehydrogenases. The FAD-dependent hydroxynitrile lyases (FAD-HNLs) carry a flavin cofactor whose redox properties appear to be unimportant for catalysis. Results: We have determined the crystal structure of a 61 kDa hydroxynitrile lyase isoenzyme from Prunus amygdalus (PaHNL1) to 1.5 A resolution. Clear electron density originating from four glycosylation sites could be observed. As concerns the overall protein fold including the FAD cofactor, PaHNL1 belongs to the family of GMC oxidoreductases. The active site for the HNL reaction is probably at a very similar position as the active sites in homologous oxidases. Conclusions: There is strong evidence from the structure and the reaction product that FAD-dependent hydroxynitrile lyases have evolved from an aryl alcohol oxidizing precursor. Since key residues implicated in oxidoreductase activity are also present in PaHNL1, it is not obvious why this enzyme shows no oxidase activity. Similarly, features proposed to be relevant for hydroxy-nitrile lyase activity in other hydroxynitrile lyases, i.e., a general base and a positive charge to stabilize the cyanide, are not obviously present in the putative active site of PaHNL1. Therefore, the reason for its HNL activity is far from being well understood at this point.
About the Reaction between Hydrazines and Aminohydroxy-hydrobenzoxazol. Synthesis of Azoolefines ::: ::: ::: ::: By the reaction of 1-hydroxy-2-oxocyclohexane-carboxamide (1) with cyanamide 2-amino-7a-carbamoyl-3a-hydroxy-3a,4a,5,6,7,7a-hexahydrobenzoxazole (2) is formed. Compound 2 and arylhydrazine-hydrochloride yield 1-carbamoyl-2-arylazocyclohex-1-ene (4a, b). In morpholine azocompounds 4a, b rearrange to hydrazones 5a, b. Compound 2 and hydrazine yield 4-(2-carbamoyl-cyclohexyl)-semicarbazide (10), 10 forms perhydroquinazoline-2,4-dione (11) by oxidation with iodine. 2 and cyanic acid yield the urea derivative 12. 2 and arylamine-hydrochloride afford the 2-arylamino-3a-hydroxy-7a-carbamoyl-hexahydrobenzoxazoles 13a, b. By fragmentation and “Dimroth-rearrangement” of 2 tetrahydrobenzoimidazolone, (14) is formed, 12 gives 1-carbamoyl-tetrahydrobenzoimidazolone (15). 2 and m-nitrobenzaldehyde yield “Schiff-base” 16. 2 and hydroxylamine sulphate form 2′-amino-2-hydroximino-cyclohexane-spiro-5′-oxazolin-4′-one (18) 18 and phenylhydrazine hydrochloride yield 1-phenylazo-2-ureido-carboxy-cyclohex-1-ene (19).
Contaminated weaning food contributes to an increase in diarrhea for infants in the transition period between exclusive breast feeding and a mixed diet. Further 2 public health specialists believe that between 15-70% of diarrhea episodes are linked with improper food preparation handling and storage practices and feeding methods. Since breast feeding does provide some protection against diarrhea some health workers advise mothers to breast feed as long as possible. Yet long term breast fed children can become malnourished as breast milk cannot sustain growth. So health workers must weigh the relative risk of starting and delaying weaning--the weanlings dilemma. In many developing countries mothers prepare fermented foods as weaning foods. These acidic foods (<pH 4) exhibit antimicrobial activity and are more palatable than unfermented foods. In fact a study in Mali shows that a mixture of curdled goats milk and millet gruel no longer harbored Vibrio cholerae after 6 hours of fermentation. Further fermented foods are not as thick as and provide more calories than unfermented foods. In fact a study in Ghana shows that fermented maize dough porridge could fulfill the energy needs of a healthy child. Another advantage of fermented foods is that fermentation actually improves protein and amino acid levels. Moreover evidence demonstrates that fermentation reduces phytate levels improves the bioavailability of iron and zinc. In addition 3 studies show that fermentation reduces levels of aflatoxin B1 and hydrocyanic acid--both toxic to infants. Further due to some bacteria such as lactobacilli fermented foods may actually improve resistance of the intestines. Nevertheless fermented foods which have only undergone limited hours of fermentation have high concentrations of sugar which increases stool output. Thus it is best to wait at least 14 hours before offering fermented foods to infants. In conclusion fermented foods protect against diarrhea.
Abstract The photodissociation of isocyanic acid (HNCO) and ketene (CH 2 CO) at 193 nm was investigated using an ArF laser to dissociate the carbonyl compound and a CO laser to probe the resulting vibrationally excited CO. The dissociation of HNCO at 193 nm produces CO with an average vibrational energy of 4.6 ± 0.3 kcal/mol. The dissociation Gf CH 2 CO at 193 nm produces CO with an average vibrational energy of 6.4 ± 0.8 kcal/mol. The observed CO vibrational energy distributions were found to be in close agreement with those predicted statistically assuming NH(a 1 Δ) + CO and CH 2 ( 1 A 1 ) + CO were the photodissociation products.
The aim of this study was to find a suitable biomarker for pyrethroid adverse effects. It was shown that there is a correlation between the half-life time (t(1/2)) of pyrethroids in plasma and the clinical findings. We hypothized that this finding indicates an interindividual different amount of total esterase activity or even a polymorphism. By in vitro experiments it was demonstrated that pyrethroids are cleaved by carboxylesterases. After it turned out that carboxylesterase activity in human plasma is too low for detection, a method for specific determination of carboxylesterase activity in human isolated lymphocytes was developed. As a substrate for carboxylesterase activity, cyfluthrin was added to the lymphocyte suspension. As a proof for cyfluthrin degradation by carboxylesterases the produced hydrocyanic acid was determined by GC/MS. First hints for interindividual differences in carboxylesterase activity in lymphocytes were found.
Abstract A computational study of the [2 + 2] cycloaddition reaction pathways for formaldehyde–ketene and formaldehyde–isocyanic acid has been presented by using the DFT(B3LYP) method. These cycloaddition reactions could yield to eight different four-membered molecules. In the two considered reactions, the reactions for the β -propiolactone and oxazetidinone products have the lower barriers of 26.40 and 32.88 kcal mol −1 and are exothermic by 27.68 and 4.00 kcal mol −1 , respectively. The β -propiolactone and oxazetidinone ring compounds have been predicted to be the most stable thermodynamically. Simulation of the solvent environment (toluene, THF, acetone, acetonitrile and water) has been investigated by using polarized continuum model method, yet only small differences have been found to occur in energetics between the studied structures in the gas-phase and in the solvent.
Plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria are a group of free-living bacteria that colonize the rhizosphere. In the present study, 12bacterial isolates have been isolated from the rhizosphereof chick pea cultures.The isolates have been screenedfor their capacity to produce particular metabolites (hydrocyanic acid production HCN, inorganic phosphates solubilizationand the proteins hydrolysis) and also screenedfor their antifungal activity against Fusariumoxysporum f. sp. ciceris.All isolates have presented a good antagonistic activity againstFusariumoxysporum f. sp. ciceris.Compared with the others isolates such as NfA, NfD and NfC have manifested a good proteolysis and phosphorus solubilizationcapacity, where the index varied from 1.83 to 3.03 and their antagonisticactivity againstFusariumoxysporum f. sp. Cicerishasreached20%.Finally, the selected isolates was tested in vivo on the seedsgermination of chickpea, where hasmanifested an interesting capacity to promoteseed germination and plants growth.In conclusion, the selected isolates, NfA, NfD and NfC have presented an excellent effect for promotion germination of the chick pea, where the vigor index registered ranged from 140 to 180.
The paper explores the conclusion that the addition compound was bicyclic, and that the addition of each of the two moles of cyanic acid was dependent upon the other.
The actions and toxicity of sodium nitroprusside (Na2Fe(CN)5 NO2H20) have been investigated periodically during the past 42 years without, however, definite establishment of the mechanisms on which the actions depend, or indications of its possible usefulness. The original claims of L. Herrmann 1 , of his pupil Davidsohn 2 , and of Arntz 3 and Cromme 4 , that the actions of nitroprusside depended upon liberated hydrocyanic acid suggested the possible use of the compound as a respiratory stimulant. The actions of the compound, therefore, have been re-investigated along different lines with the following results. The marked symptoms claimed by previous investigators, namely sustained, intense respiratory stimulation, followed sometimes by tremors and convulsions in all species, and accompanied by nausea and emesis in mammals and birds, have been confirmed. The odor of cyanogen post mortem, following large fatal doses only, has been confirmed, but chemical tests for cyanogen in the blood and tissues have proved inconclusive. Other tests were applied because small and non-fatal doses (2 mgm. per kilo or less hypodermically and about 0.1 to 0.2 mgm. per kilo intravenously), still gave profound effects without demonstrable cyanogen. These effects in narcotized and operated animals consisted of marked respiratory stimulation and a marked and sustained fall of blood pressure accompanied by increases in volume of peripheral organs and diminution in cardiac volume and contractions with increase or without change in rate. The circulatory actions were practically identical with those of sodium nitrite, but opposite to those of cyanide, in the same animals. A nitrite-type of action was further indicated from the facts that the vasomotor center still responded to reflex and asphyxial stimulations, the smooth muscle and sympathetic endings of the blood vessels were responsive in the usual way to epinephrine and the smooth muscle of excised organs was typically depressed. These actions might be expected from the nitroso (NO) group in the nitroprusside, and the respiratory stimulation would result from the depressor action, rather than from the alleged liberation of cyanogen.
The carbamylation reaction in vivo involves the nonenzymatic, covalent attachment of isocyanic acid, the spontaneous dissociation product of urea, to proteins. Carbamylated proteins have been proposed as markers of uremia and indicators of uremic control. However, the utility of measuring carbamylated proteins has not been investigated adequately. Therefore, this study was done to determine the relationship between the carbamylation of long-lived protein (hemoglobin) with that of short-lived proteins (plasma proteins) in hemodialyzed patients. Significantly higher carbamylated hemoglobin (CHb; 157 +/- 40 microg valine hydantoin/g Hb) and carbamylated protein (CTP; 0.117 +/- 0.011 absorbance/mg protein) concentrations were found in hemodialyzed patients (N = 13) as compared to normal individuals (N = 9, 53 +/- 20 microg valine hydantoin/g Hb and 0.08 +/- 0.01 absorbance/mg protein, respectively). A high correlation was found between CHb and CTP concentrations (r = 0.87, P < 0.0001), demonstrating a strong relationship between these two different half-lived proteins. A six-month longitudinal study of seven hemodialyzed patients showed that the between subject correlations were significant for CHb versus CTP as well as CHb versus pre-dialysis urea. Correlations were not significant for CTP versus pre-dialysis urea or Kt/V, nor CHb versus Kt/V. Carbamylated hemoglobin fluctuated the most over this time period (30.1% +/- 20.2%), pre-dialysis urea and CTP varied less (18.3% +/- 13.4% and 14.9% +/- 7.5%, respectively), and Kt/V varied the least (6.3% +/- 3.3%). Within subject correlations were not significant between any two tests. It is unclear whether the lack of correlations found is real or a function of the small sample size. However, these data do show that CHb and CTP are positively associated and reflect the degree of urea exposure in the blood, but their usefulness for patients on maintenance hemodialysis is not clear.
An energetic analysis of the thermal decomposition of solid urea and urea solutions is presented, and the results are discussed in view of urea selective catalytic reduction (SCR) for automotive DeNOx systems. Various types of decomposition reactors are possible which differ in their effectiveness to produce ammonia from urea. For reasons of simplicity, the decomposition is usually performed by atomizing urea solutions directly into the hot exhaust. However, this technique suffers from short residence times, leading to incomplete decomposition into ammonia and isocyanic acid and causing a significant performance loss of the SCR catalyst. The thermal decomposition out of the main exhaust stream allows much increased residence times for the process of urea decomposition. A reactor utilizing a partial stream of the exhaust seems particularly promising, especially if such a reactor includes a hydrolyzing catalyst, leading to ammonia practically free from isocyanic acid.
FIELD: chemical technology. SUBSTANCE: method involves contact of reaction mixture containing organic solvent, aldehyde and hydrocyanic acid by passing through porous diaphragm. The latter has resin-like polymeric binding agent containing finely milled filling agent particles dispersed in binding agent where enzyme S-hydroxynitrilase is bound chemically by immobilization by cobalent or cross-linking enzyme bonds with binding agent. Diaphragm is activated chemically with polyethyleneimine and glutaric dialdehyde. Method is used in agriculture, an intermediate product for insecticides production. EFFECT: improved method of producing. 10 cl, 4 tbl
The gas-phase decomposition of ethyl, isopropyl, and t-butyl isothiocyanates has been studied in the pressure range of 35–350 mm. The reaction, which has been found to be the unimolecular elimination of thiocyanic acid, is followed by a slow addition of the acid to the olefins to yield mainly the isothiocyanate expected by Markownikoff addition.
Flaxseed contains approximately 55% of total fatty acids of the oil as ?-linolenic acid and is rich in lignans, which are strong antioxidants. Diets rich in omega-3 fatty acids and antioxidants are known to have beneficial effects on human health such as a decrease in the incidence of cancer, cardiovascular diseases, hypertension, and arthritis. Flaxseed could then be an interesting natural feed to consider for changing milk composition. Cyanogenic glycosides (linustatin and neolinustatin) are present in flaxseed, but the concentration of hydrocyanic acid is very low in milk and ruminal fluid of cows fed flaxseed products. In general, feeding up to 15% of the total dry matter as whole flaxseed has a limited effect on dry matter intake. Heat treatments such as micronization and extrusion have no effect on dry matter intake and the effect of formaldehyde treatment on feed intake is unclear. The effects of flaxseed supplementation on milk production of dairy cows in the early stage of lactation have been neu...
OBJECTIVE ::: To investigate the prevalence of nasal and ocular symptoms and nasal signs in foundry workers exposed to monoisocyanates using the Hot Box method. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Forty-three foundry workers and 69 referents completed questionnaires and were examined by a rhinologist. Exposure to isocyanic acid, methyl isocyanate, formaldehyde, and total dust was measured. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Nasal symptoms and signs were associated with exposure, and dose-response relationships between nasal symptoms and exposure to isocyanic acid, methyl isocyanate, and formaldehyde were observed. Dry nasal mucosa was more prevalent in exposed workers than in referents. These findings were not substantially affected by the exclusion of asthmatic and allergic individuals, smokers, or females. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: An increased prevalence of nasal symptoms and signs was observed among exposed workers, suggesting an association with the foundry environment involving monoisocyanates and other airway irritants, such as formaldehyde and dust.
An efficient synthesis of the rare heterocyclic scaffold, 2,4,5,6-tetrahydro-3H-1,2,4-triazepine-3-thione has been developed. The key step of the synthesis is the ring expansion of 3-amino-4-hydroxyhexahydropyrimidine-2-thiones under the action of bases. The proposed reaction pathway based on experimental data and DFT calculations included fast formation of intermediate acyclic isomers followed by their slow cyclization into triazepines. Starting hydroxypyrimidines were prepared by reaction of α,β-unsaturated ketones or β-alkoxy ketones with thiocyanic acid followed by treatment of the obtained β-isothiocyanato ketones with hydrazine. 3-Oxo-analogs were readily obtained from triazepine-3-thiones by oxidation with H 2 O 2 . Since various β-alkoxy ketones can be prepared using directed aldol condensation of TMS ethers of ketones and acetals of carbonyl compounds, a large variety of triazepines can be obtained and subsequently modified. We believe that this methodology will be helpful for further research into the chemistry and applications of 1,2,4-triazepines.
Cyanogenesis is a defense process of several thousand plant species. Hydroxynitrile lyase, a key enzyme of this process, cleaves a cyanohydrin into hydrocyanic acid and the corresponding aldehyde or ketone. The reverse reaction constitutes an important tool in biocatalysis. Different classes of hydroxynitrile lyases have convergently evolved from FAD-dependent oxidoreductases, α/β hydrolases and alcohol dehydrogenases. The FAD-dependent hydroxynitrile lyases (FADHNLs) carry a flavin cofactor whose redox properties appear to be unimportant for catalysis.
Actinomycetes are gram-positive, filamentous bacteria, characterized by high genomic G ? C content (Bouizgarne 2013) and are saprophytic in nature (Crawford et al. 1993) . Although actinomycetes are known to produce a wide array of antibiotics as secondary metabolites that are specific for several plant pathogens (Stockwell and Duffy 2012) , reports on their use for the biological control of stem rot pathogen in groundnut are scarce. Nevertheless, they are well established as promising candidates for biological control of other soilborne pathogens and plant-growth promotion (El-Tarabily et al. 2000; Trejo-Estrada et al. 1998 ) such as phosphate solubilisation (Jog et al. 2014) , production of indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), siderophores, hydrocyanic acid (HCN) and cell-wall-degrading lytic enzymes (Gopalakrishnan et al. 2011 (Gopalakrishnan et al. , 2013 . Understanding these traits and their contribution to controlling pathogens is important for incorporating biocontrol agents into an integrated disease management program. Since the stem rot pathogen survives through sclerotia in soil for longer periods, selection of actinomycete strains with suppressive effects on sclerotial germination is therefore important. Further, these bioagents would be the ideal candidates if they suppress oxalic acid (OA) production of S. rolfsii, which is a major virulence factor.
The main aim of this bulletin is to provide information of agriculturally important microorganisms available at the International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT), Patancheru, India for agricultural scientists, particularly those who are working in plant growth promotion, biological control, plant pathology and microbiology, extension workers, biopesticide/biofertilizer industry and students. The agriculturally important microbial germplasm database at ICRISAT currently contains a total of 59 plant growth-promoting (PGP) microbes including 12 bacteria, 46 actinomycetes and 1 fungus. These PGP microbes were isolated from 25 different herbal vermicomposts and rhizosphere soils from different organically cultivated fields of ICRISAT. The PGP microbes reported in this bulletin possess one or more PGP traits such as chitinase, lipase, protease, indoleacetic acid, siderophore, β-1,3-glucanase, cellulase and hydrocyanic acid. They were also able to grow in NaCl concentrations up to 10%, at pH values between 7 and 11, temperatures between 20 and 40°C and were compatible with some fungicides at field application levels
The evolution of hydrocyanic acid by laurel leaves (Prunus laurocerasus) is consequence of congelation, or of their exposure to the action of anaesthetic vapours, was first pointed out by Raphael Dubois. It has been studied more recently by Guignard, who has introduced an extremely delicate test for the presence of hydrocyanic acid by sodium picrate paper, and quite recently this test has been applied by F. E. Armstrong for the rapid detection of ferments of the emulsin class. The reaction was first studied by Hlasiwetz in 1859, who gave the following equation:- C6H3N3O7 + 3KCN + 3H2O = C8H4KN5O6 + CO2 + NH3 + 2KHO. Potassium isopurpurate. The reaction appeared likely to afford a convenient instance for the simultaneous observation of chemical and electrical changes taking place in living protoplasm between the course of the two changes-chemical and electrical.
Hemoglobin A1C (HbA1C) methods based on charge separation of Hb species are subject to interference from carbamylated Hb (carb Hb). Carb Hb adducts are formed via interaction of terminal amino groups of HbA with isocyanic acid, after the spontaneous dissociation of urea to cyanate. It is hypothesized that a new immunoassay method, using a monoclonal antibody that recognizes the N-terminus of the Hb beta-chain and its sugar moiety, should be refractory to cross-reactive interference from carb Hb. To test this hypothesis, Hb was carbamylated in vitro and co-migration of carb Hb assessed with HbA1C using an electrophoretic method. Densitometric scans - post sodium cyanate incubation and electrophoretic separation - showed a 5 to 7 fold elevation of the HbA1C peak only, while HbA1C values obtained using immunoassay were unaffected. Also assessed was carbamylation interference in vivo, and a positive proportional bias with the electrophoretic system (Y) was observed compared to the immunoassay system (X) (y = 1.2x - 0.21 percent). Others have shown that carb Hb may cause a clinically significant false elevation in patient HbA1C values, when methods based on charge separation of Hb species are used. It is our conclusion, however, that while carb Hb may play a role, the differences observed in this study are largely due to calibration.
Using a fixed bed, batch combustion method, heterogeneous kinetics of NO and N 2 O formation from char-nitrogen have been investigated on highly devolatilized coal chars, in the temperature range between 500 and 1300 Kelvin. Using a conventional steady state technique (adsorption/desorption equilibrium conditions), the heterogeneous NO and N 2 O reduction on bound carbon atoms, have been determined. Both N 2 O and NO are mainly obtained as desorption products from oxidized (−CN) sites; only a few percent of the released nitrous oxide is produced by reactions involving hydrocyanic acid as a reactant. The fractions of char-nitrogen converted into NO and N 2 O during char oxidation, are roughly proportional to the degree of char burnout, showing the charabound carbon and nitrogen atoms to be oxidized in proportions almost identical to their respective concentrations in the char. Due to simultaneously occuring heterogeneous reduction of NO and N 2 O onbound carbon atoms, the final fraction of char-nitrogen converted into NO and N 2 O, is smaller than one (0.3 to 0.7, depending on char type, oxygen concentration and particle size). The rate constants of the different adsorption and desorption reactions have been determined in the transient state, created by the sudden suppression of the oxygen in the gaseous reactants. The small values of the oxygen covered sites fractions, as well as the first order with respect to the gaseous reactants, indicate that the overall NO and N 2 O formation is controlled by oxygen adsorption; below 800 K, this adsorption evolves in the kinetic regime; at higher temperature it appears to be controlled by pore diffusivity.
Sorghum is capable of sustaining under high temperature and minimal soil moisture. Hydrocyanic acid toxin production is a ::: serious problem associated with sorghum forage in dry areas and could be lethal to animals if ingested in higher quantities. ::: Hydrocyanic acid (HCN) contents in forage sorghum were studied through field experiment executed at National Agricultural ::: Research Centre, Islamabad during 2008 and 2009. Three sorghum cultivars JS-2002, Chakwal sorghum and Local sorghum ::: were sown in a randomized complete block design in split-split plot arrangement with three seeding rates (75, 100 & 125 kg ::: ha-1) and three nitrogen levels (0, 60 & 120 kg N ha-1). Increased nitrogen application progressively increased HCN production ::: irrespective of cultivar and growth stage of the crop. Application of 120 kg N ha-1 recorded about 64% higher HCN than ::: control treatment indicating the risk of higher doses of nitrogen fertilizer to sorghum forage in dry areas. Seeding rates had ::: variable influence on HCN production. Cultivar JS-2002 produced 23, 36 and 57% less HCN contents compared to local ::: sorghum at pre-booting, booting and 50% heading stage, respectively. On the basis of two year‘s field study, it may be ::: concluded that approved cultivar JS-2002 produced less HCN sown with higher seed rate and applied low doses of N fertilizer ::: under dryland farming conditions of Pothwar is recommended for general cultivation.
Platinum catalyst gauzes have been in use since the moment of development of the process of catalyst oxidation of ammonia for production of nitric acid or hydrocyanic acid.Catalyst gauzes are usually made of platinum or its alloys with rhodium and palladium.These precious metals have remarkable properties that make them ideal catalysts for acceleration of the ammonia/oxygen reaction.In 2008,OJSC "SIC ‘Supermetal’" and Umicore AG&Co.KG launched a production line for Pt-alloy-based catalyst systems to be used for ammonia oxidation in the production of weak nitric acid.Catalyst systems consist of a pack of catalyst gauzes and a pack of catchment gauzes,which are made using flat-bed knitting machines and wire-cloth looms.Today,up-to-date catalyst systems MKSpreciseTM are being manufactured,the basic advantages of which are an individual structure of gauzes and composition of the material,which allows to define precisely the position of each gauze in the catalyst pack,a high activity of the catalyst pack,direct catching of platinum and rhodium in the catalyst system,and a reasonable combination of single- and multilayer types of gauzes.This makes it possible to vary the configuration of the catalyst and select an optimum composition of the system to ensure the maximum efficiency of the ammonia oxidation process.We also produce the catchment systems that allow to find the best decision from the economic point view for each individual case.
Abstract In this work, Pd and Mo-Pd catalysts supported on Al 2 O 3 modified SiO 2 and Si-MCM-41 materials were prepared, characterized by H 2 chemisorption and FTIR spectroscopy of adsorbed CO and NO and tested for the reduction of NO with CO. The characterization results indicated that in the bimetallic catalysts, Mo that is loaded first, migrates over the Pd atoms and reduced the fraction of exposed metal atoms. The reduction of NO with CO at 523 K showed that the specific activity for NO conversion increased as a result of the Pd-Mo interaction. In the 523–573 K temperature range NH 3 was produced in addition to CO 2 , N 2 and N 2 O. This result suggests the reaction of NCO species formed on the Pd surface with OH groups of the support materials to produce isocyanic acid (HNCO) that is hydrolyzed to NH 3 . The catalysts exhibited a decreasing selectivity to N 2 O and a parallel increase in the production of N 2 and NH 3 as the conversion increases. The effect of Mo on the reaction selectivity was clear for Pd/Al 2 O 3 /SiO 2 ; at similar NO conversion level the selectivity to N 2 O and N 2 decreased with increasing NH 3 formation. FTIR spectra of adsorbed species under reaction conditions demonstrated the absence of isocyanate species and the presence of NH 4 + ions in accordance with the high Bronsted acidity of the support materials.
The development of increased immunity to hydrocyanic acid gas by the red scale and black scale in certain districts of Califomia, which have in the past relied upon fumigation for control, has become sO pronounced that a single treatment even at a greatly increased dosage no longer can be depended upon to keep these pests in control. Double fumigation is often unsatisfactory and very expensive. A situation has arisen, the solution of which demands the introduction of new methods and materials. A wave of spraying, in some cases combined with fumigation, has been sweeping these districts. At present a very unsatisfactory condition exists.
Prussian blue and related materials, usually considered that behave as a zeolite for ammonia adsorption, when hydrated are unstable in the presence of this gaseous species. They remain stable only in the anhydrous form. In the decomposition products ammonium hexacyanometallates and an XRD amorphous iron(III) oxyhydroxide are detected. The crystallization and adsorbed water present in these solid materials participates in a decomposition reaction to give NH4 and OH 2 . The very basic OH 2 anion removes the iron(III) cations from the complex to form Fe(OH)3 and finally FeOOH, while the formed NH4 appears as the salt of the complex anion. As reference reactions, the interaction of ammonia with ferrocyanic acid and ferric chloride, both in solid state, were studied where crystalline ammonium ferrocyanide and ammonium chloride, respectively, are formed. q 2003 Published by Elsevier Science Ltd.
The reaction paths of [2 + 2] cycloadditions of allene (H2C=C=CH2) to isocyanic acid (HN=C=O) and ketene (H2C=C=O) to vinylimine (H2C=C=NH), leading to all the possible 14 four-membered ring molecules, were investigated by the MP2/aug-cc-pVDZ method. In the two considered reactions, the 2-azetidinone (beta-lactam) ring compounds were predicted to be the most stable thermodynamically in the absence of an environment. Although 4-methylene-2-azetidinone is the most stable product of the ketene-vinylimine cycloaddition, its activation barrier is higher than that for 4-methylene-2-iminooxetane by ca. 6 kcal/mol. Therefore, the latter product can be obtained owing to kinetic control. The activation barriers in the allene-isocyanic acid reactions are quite high, 50-70 kcal/mol, whereas in the course of the ketene-vinylimine cycloaddition they are equal to ca. 30-55 kcal/mol. All the reactions studied were found to be concerted and mostly asynchronous. Simulation of the solvent environment (toluene, tetrahydrofuran, acetonitrile, and water) by using Tomasi's polarized continuum model with the integral equation formalism (IEF-PCM) method showed the allene-isocyanic reactions remained concerted, yet the activation barriers were somewhat higher than those in the gas phase, whereas the ketene-vinylimine reactions became stepwise. The larger the solvent dielectric constant, the lower the activation barriers found. The lowest-energy pathways in the gas phase and in solvent were confirmed by intrinsic reaction coordinate (IRC) calculations. The atoms in molecules (AIM) analysis of the electron density distribution in the transition-state (TS) structures allowed us to distinguish pericyclic from pseudopericyclic from nonplanar-pseudopericyclic types of reactions.
Tubers of five wild Manihot species collected in Central Brazil were analyzed for hydrocyanic acid (HCN) content. The one with lowest HCN content, M. oligantha subsp. nesteli, may be useful in a cassava breeding program.
Gari, a creamy-white granular flour made from fresh cassava tubers have been known to contain residual cyanide (hydrocyanic acid) after processing. Cyanide is poisonous and ingestion of Gari beyond the permissible limit can lead to chronic toxicity. This study therefore investigated the presence of this chemical in Gari samples taken from different areas of Ekiti State in Nigeria to ascertain whether or not they are below the permissible level. Random samples of commercial Gari processed locally were collected from 6 areas of Ekiti State in South West Nigeria and screened for residual cyanide content. The alkaline picrate method was used for the screening. Four of the samples contained cyanide in the range of 2.10-9.10 mgHCN/kg which falls below the permissible limit while the remaining two samples had higher residual cyanide of 11.78 and 15.30mgHCN/kg which is above the permissible limit. WHO permissible limit of cyanide concentration is 10.0mgHCN/kg. The samples with concentration above 10mgHCN/kg are from areas where the cassava mash was fermented for less than 12 hours.
The seeds of four cultivars of grain sorghum and four of sweet sorghum (Sorghum blcolor (L.) Moench) contained only traces (1 or 2 ppm) to 29 ppm of potential hydrocyanic acid (HCN) that could be generated as free HCN by digestion and steam distillation. Sprouts of the same cultivars grown for 3 days in the dark at 30°C, however, contained from 258–1030 ppm potential HCN relative to the weight of the ungerminated, dry seed. Drying at 50°C and grinding of sprouts to produce a meal did not reduce the potential HCN content. The consumption of sorghum sprouts or products made from them may be hazardous. The average amount (61.3 mg) of HCN obtained in our laboratory from sprouts grown from 100g of seed exceeds the average fatal dose for an adult.
Previous studies have shown that the gas-phase protonation of isocyanic acid, HNCO, exclusively yields the N-protonated ion, the aminoformylium ion, H2NCO+, 1, which is thermodynamically the most stable [H2, C, N, O]isomer. In the present paper it is shown that the O-protonated species, the elusive isoformylaminylium ion, HNCOH+, 2, can be generated by successive degradation of ionized N-methyl-O-methylcarbamate in a 3-stage tandem (MS/MS/MS) type experiment: CH3NHC(O)OCH· → CH3NHCOH+· → HNCOH+· The species is identified from its characteristic collisional activation (CA) mass spectrum. From a comparison of the CA mass spectra of the2H-labelled isotopomers DNCOH+ and HNCOD+ with that of the isomeric ion HDNCO+ it follows that collisionally excited ions (>400 kJ/mol) of 2 may isomerize into 1.
Abstract Ellipticity changes of the electron density at the bond critical points along the [2 + 2] cycloaddition reaction paths were investigated by the AIM method applied to the MP2/aug-cc-pVDZ calculated structures. Elipticities of the σ-bonds being formed and π-bonds being broken in the ketene-vinylimine and allene-isocyanic acid cycloadditions were examined. On this basis we proposed four criteria for differentiation between pericyclic and pseudopericyclic reactions and classified the ketene-vinylimine reaction as pseudopericyclic whereas the allene-isocyanic acid one as pericyclic process. Additionally, we found the π(C=X) ellipticity profiles, X=N, O, suggesting more or less isotropicity of the C=X bond electron density over the whole reaction.
Despite this rarity, cyanide still generates a great deal of interest both for the layman and the professional. Indeed, it is probably perceived as the archetypal 'poison', the lethal dose being in the order of only 1 mg/kg. The recognition of its toxicity can be traced back to antiquity, with the consumption of bitter almonds, cherry laurel and cassava being recognized as hazardous pastimes. Hydrocyanic acid was isolated from Prussian blue in 1782, and those with a better classical education than myself will make the connection between 'cyan' and blue. In 1786, Scheele, the chemist who was first to isolate the material, fully demonstrated its toxicity by accidentally breaking a vial and dying as a result.
The time and place may very materially affect the results of fumigation, hence in any comparative work it is necessary to eliminate these two variable factors. This was done in the case in question by taking infested fruits from two localities and fumigating them under the same tent in a third locality. The fruits infested with red scale were picked from two localities on the same day, or from one of the localities on the day following. They were placed in the same basket, or two baskets were placed together under the tent, in order to guard against variation in gas concentration in different parts of the tent. Different series of such tests have been made repeatedly since 1915under tents over "form trees," under tents in experimental fumigation work in the field, and under tents operated in commercial fumigation practice. Since 1915 it has been determined that the red scale in certain districts in Orange County manifests the same apparent resistance to hydrocyanic acid.
The variable factors of time and place affecting fumigation results have to do chiefly with meteorological conditions. There is also a variation in the condition of the tree itself, but this may be independent of the time or locality. Differences in the amount of foliage on the tree may influence fumigation results. Foliage absorbs hydrocyanic acid, and the more foliage there is present the moreHCN willbe absorbed and the less, apparently, will be left in the atmosphere to kill the insects on the exterior of the tree.
There are thus two localities where it seems well established that the red scale is very resistant to hydrocyanic acid gas, and one locality where the black scale is specially resistant. In these localities these scales are [Vol. 15 not immune to hydrocyanic acid, but the dosage required for satisfactory results is so large that effective fumigation is unsafe for the tree except under the most favorable conditions.
The proximate composition of three varieties ofPiper guineense (Odusa — Ibibio/Efik) viz. ‘Uyat Odusa’ (cultivated and peppery), ‘Eting-keni Ikot’ (wild forest variety) and ‘Eting-keni mben inyang’ (wild, riverine variety), were determined using available standard methods. Also determined were mineral, antinutrient and ascorbate levels. The cultivated pepperic variety had the highest content of crude protein and moisture (18.9% and 97% respectively) while the wild, riverine variety had the highest content of ether extract, carbohydrate and calories (7.79%, 63.38% and 398 cals respectively). The cultivated variety had appreciable amounts of phosphorus (1.12 mg/100 g), potassium (1.2 mg/100 g), sodium (0.24 mg/100 g), zinc (0.18 mg/100 g), and copper (0.18 mg/100 g) while the forest variety contained more of calcium (12.38 mg/100 g), magnesium (1.21 mg/100 g) and iron (0.85 mg/100 g). The wild riverine variety appeared to have the least mineral content but had the highest ascorbate level of 173.4 mg/100 g. Of four antinutrients assayed, the cultivated pepperic one had the least quantities while the forest variety was highest in hydrocyanic acid (85.8 mg/100 g) and glucosinolates (0.20 mg/100 g). The wild riverine variety had the highest level of total oxalate (165.0 mg/100 g). These quantities are however far below documented toxic levels.
1. A process for preparing alkyl esters of methacrylic acid, comprising at least the following steps: acetone cyanohydrin preparation of hydrocyanic acid and acetone in the first step! cleaning of acetone cyanohydrin in the second stage! preparation of the amide of methacrylic acid from acetone cyanohydrin in the third step! esterification of methacrylic acid amide and the reaction mixture containing at least one alkyl alcohol, in the presence of a mixture of water and sulfuric acid to give an alkyl ester of methacrylic acid and in a fourth step! purification of the alkyl ester of methacrylic acid, of at least one following stage. ! 2. A method according to claim 1, characterized in that acetone cyanohydrin in a distillation column free, at least, of impurities with boiling points greater than -5 ° C and less than 100 ° C and these impurities is recycled to the reaction to produce acetone cyanohydrin. ! 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the gaseous products formed in the preparation of an amide of methacrylic acid are introduced into the reaction mixture of the esterification. ! 4. A method according to claim 1, characterized in that the alkyl ester obtained from the esterification of methacrylamide with at least one alkyl alcohol, washed with water and the washing water obtained after washing is recycled to the esterification process. ! 5. A method according to claim 1, characterized in that the mixture of water and sulfuric acid and, if desired, further esterification of the first substance by flotation freed of solids and then cooled. ! 6. A method according to claim 5, characterized in that the cooling is carried out in a heat exchanger and a mixture of water and sulfuric acid and, if
The preparation of oxazole-2(3H)-thiones (OXTs) by condensation of thiocyanic acid on α-hydroxycarbonyl substrates has been revisited. Extension to more complex scaffolds afforded chiral OXTs, whereas carbohydrate-fused 2-alkylsulfanyl-1,3-oxazolines led to original hemiaminal structures. A survey of the reactivity of OXTs with various electrophiles showed Sor N-chemoselectivity based on HSAB parameters. Antimicrobial evaluation of selected synthesized compounds was carried out, from which the hemiaminal 15 emerged as a promising antifungal agent. INTRODUCTION Treatment of infectious diseases still represents a topical challenge. The emergent infections as well as the increasing number of multi-drug resistant microbial pathogens specially Gram-positive bacteria have been a serious concern both in hospital and community settings. Linezolid (1) (ZyvoxTM) (Figure 1) is a member of the oxazolidinone drugs active against most Gram-positive pathogens, namely Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) and Staphylococcus epidermis (MRSE). Although it has been approved HETEROCYCLES, Vol. 88, No. 2, 2014 1013
The bacterium Escherichia coli is a widely used host for protein expression. However, the recovery of recombinant proteins hinges largely on the ability to effectively induce cell lysis. Similarly, the understanding of cellular processes is facilitated only when methods such as two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2DGE) are capable of isolating without bias the entire protein constituency of such model organisms. An accurate representation of any organism’s entire proteome can be derived only when all cells are efficiently lysed. This necessarily involves the physical disruption of cell walls or membranes, and the chemical means to ensure the solubility of released proteins. ::: ::: Probe sonicators and bead mills are commonly used for cell lysis. However, both sonication and bead mill oscillation can generate excessive heat, which rapidly accelerates the hydrolysis of urea and the formation of isocyanic acid, resulting in the potential carbamylation of protein amines. In addition, sonicators and bead mills present potential health risks for laboratory workers. Probe sonicators inherently aerosolize potentially pathogenic agents. Moreover, at least two researchers have been infected with West Nile virus when tubes oscillating in a bead mill ruptured.1 ::: ::: Pressure-cycling technology (PCT) uses rapid alternating cycles of high and low pressure to induce cell lysis. Cell suspensions or tissues are placed in specially designed processing containers (PULSE Tubes) and are subjected to alternating cycles of high and low pressure in a pressure-generating instrument (Barocycler Models NEP2017 or NEP3229) developed by Pressure BioSciences (West Bridgewater, MA). Pressure in the PULSE Tube increases to 35,000 psi in less than 3 sec and returns to ambient pressure in less than 1 sec. Maximum and minimum pressures, the time sustained at each pressure level, and the number of cycles are defined using a computer or programmable logic controller interface. The Barocycler instrument reaction chambers are temperature controlled using a peripheral circulating water bath. Safety features in the design of the PCT sample preparation system significantly reduce risk of researcher exposure to pathogens.2 ::: ::: To illustrate PCT performance, 60 mg of lyophilized E. coli K12 were reconstituted in 10 mL of 7 M urea, 2 M thiourea, and 25 mM 3-(4-heptyl) phenyl 3-hydroxypropyl dimethylammonio propanesulfonate (C7BzO).3 Twenty-five microliters of 200 mM tributylphosphine (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO) were added, and 1.5 mL of this cell suspension was transferred to each of two PULSE Tubes. The PULSE Tubes were subjected to five pressure cycles in the Barocycler NEP2017 instrument. Each cycle consisted of 20 sec at 35,000 psi followed by 20 sec at ambient pressure. The contents of the two PULSE Tubes were combined and centrifuged at 24,000 relative centrifugal forces (RCF) for 10 min to remove cellular debris. ::: ::: Alternatively, 1.5 mL of the cell suspension was transferred to each of two 2-mL polypropylene tubes for the bead mill procedure. Sample tubes were loaded into the adapter rack of a Retsch MM 301 mixer mill with tungsten carbide grinding balls provided by the manufacturer (Retsch GmbH, Haan, Germany). The tubes were cycled three times for 1 min at 1800 oscillations per min. After each cycle, the temperature of the samples reached 40°C, requiring that the tubes be removed from the adapter and placed on ice for several minutes between cycles (a potentially precarious practice, since the solubility of urea, thiourea, and the C7BzO detergent is compromised below 18°C). The contents of the two tubes were combined and centrifuged at 24,000 RCF for 10 min to remove cellular debris. ::: ::: Three milliliters of each lysate were alkylated for 2 h following the addition of 10 mM acrylamide and 40 mM Tris. Proteins were precipitated with 80% acetone at room temperature for 30 min. The flocculent was pelleted by centrifugation at 24,000 RCF for 10 min. Pellets were dissolved in 3 mL of ion-exchanged 7 M urea, 2 M thiourea, and 65 mM CHAPS. Dried, immobilized pH gradient strips, pH range 3–10 (Proteome Systems, Woburn, MA), were hydrated with 0.2 mL of each lysate for 6 h. Isoelectric focusing and 2DGE was performed as described.4 Image analysis was performed using Progenesis Discovery and Editor software (Nonlinear Dynamics, Newcastle Upon Tyne, UK). ::: ::: PCT extracted 14.2% more total protein from E. coli than was extracted using a bead mill. Image analysis of the 2D gels (Figure 1​1)) revealed several low-abundance proteins in the PCT lysate that were not detected in the bead mill lysate. A total of 801 protein spots were detected in the PCT lysate, compared to 760 protein spots in the bead mill lysate. The graph in Figure 2​2 provides numerical data to support the visual impression in Figure 1​1.. The preponderance of points in the ordinal quadrant shows the improved efficiency of cell lysis by PCT as compared to bead mill oscillation, since the integrated spot volumes measured in 2D gels deviated from the theoretical slope of 1.00. A slope of 1.00 is expected only if the methods are equivalent. ::: ::: ::: ::: FIGURE 1 ::: ::: E. coli lysates produced by PCT (top) or bead mill oscillation (bottom). From image analysis, the total of integrated spot volumes in the PCT lysate was 14.2% higher than the total spot volumes in the bead mill lysate. A total of 801 proteins were revealed ... ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: FIGURE 2 ::: ::: Logarithmic plot comparing integrated spot density of 601 matched protein spots in two-dimensional gels of PCT (ordinate) and bead mill (abscissa) lysates. The theoretical slope of 1.00 is indicated (solid line). ::: ::: ::: ::: Finally, the temperature in the Barocycler remained constant at 22°C throughout 10–20 pressure cycles, compared to the bead mill or probe sonicator, in which the temperature can exceed 40°C within seconds.
The semi-bionic extraction and the extraction with water, two methods for the Maxingshigan Decoction, were compared. The results show that the semi-bionic extraction is superior to the extraction with water in the yield of ephedrine, hydrocyanic acid, glycyrrhetinic acid, calcium ion and extract.
To the Editor. — Amygdalin (laetrile) tablets can release hydrocyanic acid on exposure to hydrolytic enzymes. To our knowledge, no fatality due to such poisoning has been reported to date. We wish to draw attention to the fact that when ingested accidentally by young children, amygdalin tablets may constitute a potentially fatal hazard. Report of a Case.— An 11-month-old girl accidentally ingested from one to five 500-mg amygdalin tablets. The tablets belonged to the child's father who has a malignant neoplasm. They were thought to be harmless by the parents and were contained in a vial along with an assortment of vitamin tablets. The patient became listless within half an hour after ingestion and vomited. Emesis was induced again by the mother who then rushed the child to the local hospital when her breathing became irregular and her state of consciousness became altered. An hour after ingestion, she was in
The products evolved during the thermal decomposition of kaolinite–urea intercalation complex were studied by using TG–FTIR–MS technique. The main gases and volatile products released during the thermal decomposition of kaolinite–urea intercalation complex are ammonia (NH3), water (H2O), cyanic acid (HNCO), carbon dioxide (CO2), nitric acid (HNO3), and biuret ((H2NCO)2NH). The results showed that the evolved products obtained were mainly divided into two processes: (1) the main evolved products CO2, H2O, NH3, HNCO are mainly released at the temperature between 200 and 450 °C with a maximum at 355 °C; (2) up to 600 °C, the main evolved products are H2O and CO2 with a maximum at 575 °C. It is concluded that the thermal decomposition of the kaolinite–urea intercalation complex includes two stages: (a) thermal decomposition of urea in the intercalation complex takes place in four steps up to 450 °C; (b) the dehydroxylation of kaolinite and thermal decomposition of residual urea occurs between 500 and 600 °C with a maximum at 575 °C. The mass spectrometric analysis results are in good agreement with the infrared spectroscopic analysis of the evolved gases. These results give the evidence on the thermal decomposition products and make all explanation have the sufficient evidence. Therefore, TG–MS–IR is a powerful tool for the investigation of gas evolution from the thermal decomposition of materials and its intercalation complexes.
Abstract The detoxification of peach kernel by distilled water decreased total protein, non-protein nitrogen, total ash, glucose, non-essential amino acids, acidic amino acids, antinutritional factors (hydrocyanic acid, tannin and phytic acid), Chemical Score, Mitchel Essential Amino Acid Index, fat absorption, emulsification capacity, foam capacity and stability. On the other hand, detoxification increased crude fibre, total carbohydrates, non-polar amino acids, polar amino acids, basic amino acids, sulphur amino acids, aromatic amino acids, essential amino acids, water absorption and also in-vitro protein digestibility and biological values by FAO/WHO, Gaussian Index and Morup Olesen's Index. However, detoxification showed no effect on the limiting amino acid which was methionine for both peach meal and detoxified peach meal. Also, both protein meals were fractionated by gel filtration into three peaks with the same elution volume, but with different proportions. High-performance liquid chromatography showed the disappearance of one peak due to detoxification.
Cassava peels (CaPe) were ensiled in mixtures with Gliricidia sepium and Leucaena leucocephala, and the utilization of the mixed silages by West African dwarf (WAD) goats was assessed. Five silages were composed, comprising of 100% ensiled CaPe (control), CaPe + G. sepium 2:1 (w/w; 2CGS), CaPe + G. sepium 1:1 (w/w; CGS), CaPe + L. leucocephala 2:1 (w/w; 2CLL) and CaPe + L. leucocephala 1:1 (w/w; CLL). All diets were supplemented with molasses (40 g/kg) before ensiling which lasted 3 months. Fifteen WAD goats (8.01 ± 0.12 kg body weight) were fed one of the experimental diets (50 g/kg body weight) for 8 weeks. The control had the lowest hydrocyanic acid content (0.05 mg/kg DM), while others ranged from 6.2 to 81.3 mg/kg. Condensed tannin concentration ranged from 1.7 to 8.4 mg/kg DM, while mimosine levels were 11.6 and 12.4 mg/kg DM in 2CLL and CLL, respectively. After fermentation, all silages showed low pH (<4.5) and were different (P < 0.05) in the lactic, acetic and butyric acid concentrations. Ratio of foliage supplementation influenced DM intake (P < 0.05). Daily weight gains ranged from 17 (CLL) to 24 g/day in control. The digestibility coefficients of nutrients and fibre fractions differed (P < 0.05) among diets. The values for packed cell volume, haemoglobin, red blood cells, neutrophils, lymphocytes and monocytes were also different (P < 0.05) across the dietary treatments. Ensiling CaPe with foliages of G. sepium and L. leucocephala can be recommended for feeding WAD goats especially during the dry spells when there is little or no available forage for the animals.
A highly selective spectrophotometric assay of hydrocyanic acid and cyanide ions based on their novel reaction with picric in the presence of resorcinol is described. Trace concentrations of cyanides in water and hydrocyanic acid collected in dilute sodium hydroxide solution are determined with a solution of 2% sodium carbonate containing 110µg/ml of resorcinol and 229µg/ml of picric acid when a novel indophenol derivative of 2,6-dinitro-5-hydroxy-4-hydroxylamino-1-cyanobenzene is afforded. The formation of the novel dye was proved by elemental and spectral analyses. The mixtures is heated at 100 o C for 30min and, after cooling, the absorbance of the red-brown solution is read at 540nm, where the blank showed a minimum absorption. Detection limit of this method has been evaluated to be below 0.01µg/ml CN . The color system obeys Beer’s law in the range of 0.1-10µg/ml CN , in which a maximum molar absorptivity of
Amygdalin can be decomposed into hydrocyanic acid, which is the primary source of Persicae Semen toxicity, by gut flora. Here, the inhibitory activity of β-glucosidase for test herb extracts was first determined and compared. In turn, optimization of the ratio of substrate and inhibitor in vitro and LD50 values of extracts, serum and liver contents of amygdalin in vivo was measured. Lycii Cortex was found to be the best inhibitory activity for β-glucosidase. The ratio of amygdalin-to-Lycii Cortex extract of 7.19:8.18 (mmol L-1 /mg mL-1 ) can be relatively suitable for inhibiting β-glucosidase activity in test in vitro reaction system. After mixed with Lycii Cortex extract, the toxicity of Persicae Semen ethanol extract in mice is significantly reduced and more amygdalin can be absorbed into the bloodstream. The study provides useful information for reducing toxicity of Persicae Semen and suggests how to better use these natural β-glucosidase inhibitors in the utilization of glycosides and aglycones. Copyright © 2017 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
A recent paper stated that dried products from germinated sorghum contained hydrocyanic acid and were therefore potentially hazardous to the consumer. Work at the Overseas Development Natural Resources Institute (ODNRI) has refuted this statement (Dada and Dendy 1987). Germinated feterita sorghum containing an average of 454 ppm cyanide as HCN was used as a substrate. When this was dried at 50 degrees Celsius little effect was seen on HCN level. It was found however that when the sorghum was toasted at 100 degrees or 180 degrees Celsius for 15 minutes and then dried at 50 degrees Celsius the HCN level was lowered by 83 and 96.5% respectively. Fermentation of either a paste or a slurry of germinated sorghum for 24 hours resulted in a loww of HCN in excess of 70%. Boiling the slurry or steaming the paste eliminated the HCN completely. Frying or hot grilling the paste removed slightly more than 90% of the HCN. The Tanzanian infant food "kimea" was also studied. It was shown that during the normal process of making this food the cyanide level was lowered to a safe level in the sprouted sorghum. There was no cyanide in sprouted pearl millet. In a preliminary study no correlation was found between the tannin content of the grain and the HCN content after germination. (authors modified)
Peptic ulcer disease is a serious gastrointestinal disorder [1] . The formation of peptic ulcers depends on the presence of acid and peptic activity in gastric juice plus a breakdown in mucosal defenses. There are two major factors that can disrupt the mucosal resistance to injury: non-steroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) e.g. aspirin and Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection [2] . As a matter of fact, many drugs were used to treat this disease but many of them cause adverse effects and recurrent infections frequently occur within a few weeks because of difficulty in eradication of H. pylori [3] . This has been rationale for the development of new antiulcer drugs and search for novel molecule. Drugs of plants origin are gaining popularity and investigating for the various disorders including peptic ulcer. The objective of the present study was to evaluate the effectiveness of leaves extract in preventing the formation of gastric ulcer experimentally by ethanol-induced gastric damage in rats. Drug treatment of peptic ulcers is targeted at either counteracting aggressive factors [acid, pepsin, active oxidants, platelet aggravating factor (PAF), leukotrienes, endothelins, bile or exogenous factors including NSAIDs] or stimulating the mucosal defences [(mucus, bicarbonate, normal blood flow, prostaglandins (PG), nitric oxide] [4] . The goals of treating peptic ulcer disease are to relieve pain, heal the ulcer and prevent ulcer recurrence. Currently there is no cost-effective treatment that meets all these goals. Hence, efforts are on to find a suitable treatment from natural product sources. Cayratia trifolia (C. trifolia) Linn. Domin Syn. Vitis trifolia (Family: Vitaceae) is commonly known as Fox grape in English; Amlabel, Ramchana in Hindi and Amlavetash in Sanskrit. It is native to India, Asia and Australia. Flowers are small greenish white and brown in colour [5] . Whole plant of C. trifolia has been reported to contain yellow waxy oil, steroids/ terpenoids, flavonoids and tannins upon preliminary phytochemical screening. Leaves contain stilbenes (piceid, reveratrol, viniferin, ampelopsin). Stem, leaves, roots are reported to possess hydrocyanic acid and delphinidin. Several flavonoids such as cyanidins are reported in the leaves. This plant also contains kaempferol, myricetin, quercetin, triterpenes and epifriedelanol [6] .
Abstract Since it is common for vehicles with idle engines to be stored indoors during the winter season to remain warm, better constraints are needed for idling emissions at low ambient temperature. CH 4 (methane), C 2 H 6 (ethane), C 2 H 4 (ethylene), HNCO (isocyanic acid), N 2 O (nitrous oxide), NH 3 (ammonia), C 3 H 6 (propylene), and HCHO (formaldehyde) from many unregulated exhaust emissions were selected and measured by a Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy (FTIR) analyzer in this study. This paper investigates the idling regulated and unregulated emissions of Euro 5/6 diesel vehicles at cold start and hot restart near 0 °C conditions. The impact of cold start and hot restart on NO x idling emissions was lower than CO and HC idling emissions in diesel vehicles. With regard to unregulated emissions, high fuel–air equivalence ratios and longer ignition delay in the idle cold start condition may increase incomplete combustion and affect the thermal cranking processes, leading to the increase of CH 4 , C 2 H 4 and C 3 H 6 . Furthermore, as the formation of N 2 O is considerably affected by the equivalence ratio and cylinder temperature, a high fuel-air equivalence ratio at low ambient temperature in the cold start condition resulted in the increase of N 2 O emissions.
Urea and cyanate, spontaneously transformed from urea, are increased with decreased renal function becoming potential toxins. Isocyanic acid, the active form of cyanate, carbamoylates proteins, amino acids and other molecules, changing molecular structure and function in vivo. Carbamoylation can occur at multiple sites with a cumulative effect over the the life-span of the molecule. Carbamoylation converts free amino acids to carbamoyl-amino acids (C-AA). C-AA interfere with protein synthesis and transamination reactions and contribute, in part, to protein-malnutrition. Insulin-sensitive glucose uptake is decreased by carbamoyl-asparagine. Cyanate inhibits superoxide release from neutrophils to an extent that interferes with microbiocidal activity. Antihomocitrulline antibodies identified homocitrulline (epsilon-amino-carbamoyl lysine) in situ in proteins in neutrophils in end stage renal disease. Also in uremic patients, homocitrulline was located in proteins in renal tissue but was not found in normal transplanted kidneys. Carbamoylated human low density lipoprotein interferes with human receptor binding, has decreased clearance, and is auto-immunogenic in animals. Carbamoylated insulin has decreased biological activity and changed immunological reactivity. Carbamoylation at a site of molecular activity can affect molecular function of enzymes, co-enzymes, antibodies, hormones and receptors. Carbamoyl-molecules can block, enhance, or be excluded from metabolic pathways, and can affect binding and trafficking, thereby influencing the fate of non-carbamoylated molecules. Normal renal function removes C-AA. In uremia, C-AA are removed by residual renal function or dialysis. Toxicity of cyanate is not an "all or none" phenomenon, but the actions of cyanate are a contributing factor in uremia. Removal of urea, cyanate and carbamoyl-molecules partially alleviates the morbidity and mortality of renal disease.
Abstract Aging and degradation of urea nitrate below the melting point, at 100 °C, was studied by using thermal analysis and spectroscopic methods including IR, Raman, 1 H and 13 C NMR techniques. It was found that urea nitrate was completely degraded after 72 h at 100 °C into a mixture of solids (69%) and released gaseous species (31%). The degradation mechanism below the melting point was clearly identified. The remaining solid mixture was composed of ammonium nitrate, urea and biuret while unreacted residual nitric and isocyanic acids as well as traces of ammonia were released as gaseous species at 100 °C. The thermal stability of urea nitrate, under extreme storage conditions (50 °C), was also examined by isothermal nano-calorimetry.
A nonspecific binding reaction between cyanic acid formed from urea and protein or peptide is called carbamylation. In the present study, insulin, a peptide hormone, was subjected to carbamylation and
A total of 48 fungi were characterised for their antagonistic potential against Botrytis cinerea causing Botrytis Gray Mold (BGM) disease in chickpea by dual culture and metabolite production assays. The culture filtrate of the most promising isolate, VFI-51, was purified by various chromatographic techniques and identified as ‘citrinin’ by nuclear magnetic resonance and mass spectrometry studies. The efficacy of citrinin was demonstrated to control BGM in chickpea under greenhouse conditions. The sequences of 18S rDNA gene of the VFI-51 matched with Penicillium citrinum in BLAST analysis. The VFI-51 produced siderophore, hydrocyanic acid, indole-3-acetic acid, lipase, protease and β-1,3-glucanase; grew well in NaCl (up to 15%), at pH between 7 and 11 and temperatures between 20°C and 40°C; and was compatible with fungicides bavistin and thiram. Under greenhouse and field conditions, VFI-51 significantly enhanced the nodule number, nodule weight, root and shoot weight and stover and grain yield over the u...
This dissertation explores a number of different environmentally relevant reactions that lead to the production of perfluorocarboxylic acids (PFCAs), a family of environmental pollutants that does not undergo any further degradation pathways. ::: The compound perfluoro-2-methyl-3-pentanone (PFMP) is a new fire fighting fluid developed by 3M that is designed as a Halon replacement. The environment fate of PFMP with regards to direct photolysis, abiotic hydrolysis and hydration was determined using a combination of laboratory experiments and computational modeling. PFMP was found to undergo direct photolysis giving a lifetime of 4-14 days depending on latitude and time of year. Offline samples confirmed PFCA products and a mechanism was proposed. ::: Polyfluorinated amides (PFAMs) are a class of chemicals produced as byproducts of polyfluorinated sulfonamide synthesis via electrochemical fluorination (ECF). Using synthesized standards of four model compounds, PFAMs were detected and quantified in a variety of legacy commercial materials synthesized by ECF. PFAMs were hypothesized to undergo biological hydrolysis reactions, suggesting their importance as historical PFOA precursors. ::: The PFAMs were also investigated with regards to their environmental fate upon atmospheric oxidation. Using a smog chamber, the kinetics and degradation mechanisms of N-ethylperfluorobutyramide (EtFBA) were elucidated. The lifetime of EtFBA to oxidation by OH was found to be approximately 4 days. Using offline sampling, PFAMs were shown to give PFCAs upon atmospheric oxidation and a plausible mechanism was proposed involving an initial N-dealkylation step followed by loss of isocyanic acid to give a perfluorinated radical. The perfluorinated radical then produces PFCAs by a series of known atmospheric reactions. ::: Finally, the biological hydrolysis of the polyfluoroalkyl phosphate monoesters (monoPAPs) were studied in vitro using a bovine alkaline phosphatase enzyme. Michaelis-Menten kinetic parameters were measured and compared to hexyl phosphate. It was discovered that monoPAPs hydrolyzed on average 100 times faster than hexyl phosphate due to the electron withdrawing fluorine substituents. The results were also used to rationalize the results of a previous in vivo study which suggested monoPAPs were rapidly hydrolyzed in the small intestines of rats following a high dose by oral gavage.%%%%PhD
FIELD: chemistry. SUBSTANCE: invention relates to method of a obtaining cetone cyanohydrin. According to claimed method reaction mixture, which contains acetone and hydrocyanic acid, are converted in presence of catalyst in loopback reactor with formation of acetone cyanohydrin as reaction product. Loopback reactor has, at least, one device for reaction mixture cooling, at least, one pump, at least, one device for mixing of reaction mixture and, at least, one supplying hole for supply of each hydrocyanic acid, acetone and catalyst, and supply of catalyst is realised down flow of acetone and hydrocyanic acid supply. Invention also relates to method of obtaining acetone cyanohydrin, which additionally contains uninterrupted or periodical extraction of reaction product from loopback reactor, cooling reaction product to temperature from 0 to 10°C and mixing with sulphuric acid with water content from 0.1 to 8 % wt. EFFECT: method makes it possible to increase output of acetone cyanohydrin. 22 cl, 9 dwg, 2 ex
A CASE of livestock poisoning from hybrid sorghum led to the analysis of the hybrid and local varieties, when it was found that the hybrid contained about twice as much hydrocyanic acid (HCN) as the local variety. Subsequently, ::: it was thought that the high HCN content of the hybrid could be attributed either to the variety or to the higher dressing of nitrogen which it had received. The present study was therefore undertaken to determine the effect of variety, nitrogen and soil moisture content on the HCN content of fodder sorghum
Sodium cyanate, which in its tautomeric acidic form, isocyanic acid, acts as a protein carbamylating reagent, has been previously shown to inhibit selectively both DNA and protein synthesis in a variety of solid tumors. We have now compared its effects on protein synthesis in normal colonic epithelium and in colon tumors induced by the administration of 1,2-dimethylhydrazine to rats. The incorporation of 3H-amino acids into cytoplasmic and nuclear protein fractions was suppressed to a much greater extent in the tumor tissue than in colonic epithelial tissue surrounding the tumors of cyanate-treated rats. Despite its effect on tumor protein synthesis in whole animals, cyanate had little or no effect on cultured cells (HT-29) derived from a human adenocarcinoma of the colon, nor on other malignant cell lines such as HeLa S3 cells, chick fibroblasts transformed by the Rous sarcoma virus, mouse Ehrlich ascites tumor cells, or rat Novikoff hepatoma cells. However, the administration of cyanate i.p. does suppress amino acid incorporation by Novikoff hepatoma cells in the peritoneal cavity of rats. The implication that the mechanism of cyanate inhibition of protein synthesis in tumors may require its in vivo metabolism or utilization to produce a postsynthetic modification of circulatory factors is discussed.
Triazine is the chemical species of six-membered heterocyclic ring compound with three nitrogens replacing carbon-hydrogen units in the benzene ring structure. The names of the three isomers indicate which of the carbonhydrogen units on the benzene ring position of the molecule have been replaced by nitrogens, called 1,2,3-triazine, 1,2,4-triazine, and 1,3,5-triazine respectively. Symmetrical 1, 3, 5-triazine is the common. Triazines are prepared from cyanic acid amide by trimerization (1, 3, 5-triazine). Pyridine is the aromatic nitrogen heterocyclic compound having only one nitrogen, and diazines are with 2 nitrogen atoms, triazine having three nitrogen and tetrazines are with 4 nitrogen atoms on the benzene ring system. Triazines are weak base. Triazines have much weaker resonance energy than benzene, so nucleophilic substitution is preferred than electrophilic substitution. Heterocyclic bearing a symmetrical s-triazines or 1, 3, 5-triazines moieties, represent an interesting class of compounds possessing a wide spectrum of biological activities such as anti-cancer, antiviral, fungicidal, insecticidal, bactericidal, herbicidal and antimicrobial, antimalarial agents. They also find applications as dyes, lubricants and analytical reagents.
In this study, culturable endophytic bacterial isolates obtained from an ethnomedicinal plant Clerodendrum colebrookianum Walp., were assessed for their diversity, in vitro screening for their plant growth promoting (PGP) activities and to use them as inoculant for in vivo PGP activities with biocontrol potential. Totally, 73 isolates were recovered from different tissues of C. colebrookianum were identified by 16S rRNA gene sequencing and phylogenetically analyzed by using BOX-PCR fingerprinting. Out of 73 isolates, 52 exhibited varying extents of antagonistic potential were selected for screening for various PGP traits. Concerning the PGP activities, the percentage of isolates positive for P-solubilisation, indolic compounds production, siderophore and ammonia production were 84.6, 92.3, 78.8 and 98.0 respectively. All isolates were positive for the production of hydrocyanic acid (HCN) and 86.5%, 84.6% and 90.3% of isolates showed significant cellulase, amylase and protease production respectively. Further, the top 10 bacterial isolates based on a bonitur scale with multiple PGP activities were screened for root surface colonization and biofilm formation ability. Out of selected 10 isolates, 9 showed significant potential for root surface colonization on tomato roots. Isolate BPSAC6 identified as Bacillus sp. was most efficient in biofilm formation as assessed with respect to the intensity of crystal violet, which further showed their potential to withstand various biotic and abiotic stresses. Furthermore, Bacillus sp. strain BPSAC6 showed a significant increase in shoot and root height as well as fresh weight after 45 and 60 d of inoculation with tomato seedlings. Additionally, biosynthetic potential of antagonistic isolate was detection by using PKSI, PKSII and NRPS biosynthetic genes. Two isolates Pseudomonas psychrotolerans and Labrys wisconsinensis were reported first time as an endophyte. At last, first time an endophytic bacterial strain Bacillus sp. BPSAC6 was reported to produce altogether three phytohormones (IAA, Kinetin and 6-Benzyladenine). This study is the first report that bacteria isolated from C. colebrookianum has biocontrol as well as PGP abilities endowed with phytohormones production and can be used for the preparation of bioinoculant for plant growth promotion.
Nicotine is one of the most lethal poisons known to man. Some conception of its extreme toxicity may be gained by comparing it with hydrocyanic acid, which is of approximately equal potency. Nicotine is present in appreciable quantities in tobacco (ranging from 0.6 to 8 per cent), 1 the poorer grades containing relatively more than the better grades. Since tobacco is used so widely both for smoking and for chewing (including snuff), it is amazing that so few instances of fatal poisoning from nicotine have been recorded. As far as smoking is concerned, a possible explanation may be the destruction of the drug by combustion and also its expulsion with the smoke. Then too, marked tolerance acquired by the habitual use of tobacco is undoubtedly an important factor. Consequently, in a majority of instances nicotine poisoning among adults has been traced to the ingestion of some strong solution of the
Cassava polyploid breeding has drastically improved our knowledge on increasing root yield and its significant tolerance to stresses. In polyploid cassava plants, increases in DNA content highly affect cell volumes and anatomical structures. However, the mechanism of this effect is poorly understood. The purpose of the present study was to compare and validate the changes between cassava cultivar NZ199 diploid and autotetraploid at proteomic levels. The results showed that leaf proteome of cassava cultivar NZ199 diploid was clearly differentiated from its autotetraploid genotype using 2-DE combined MS technique. Sixty-five differential protein spots were seen in 2-DE image of autotetraploid genotype in comparison with that of diploid. Fifty-two proteins were identified by MALDI-TOF-MS/MS, of which 47 were up-regulated and 5 were down-regulated in autotetraploid genotype compared with diploid genotype. The classified functions of 32 up-regulated proteins were associated with photosynthesis, defense system, hydrocyanic acid (HCN) metabolism, protein biosynthesis, chaperones, amino acid metabolism and signal transduction. The remarkable variation in photosynthetic activity, HCN content and resistance to salt stress between diploid and autotetraploid genotypes is closely linked with expression levels of proteomic profiles. The analysis of protein interaction networks indicated there are direct interactions between the 15 up-regulation proteins involved in the pathways described above. This work provides an insight into understanding the protein regulation mechanism of cassava polyploid genotype, and gives a clue to improve cassava polyploidy breeding in increasing photosynthesis and resistance efficiencies.
The khapra beetle, Trogoderma grananum Everts, was first found established in California in 1953 and was subsequently detected in Arizona and New .Mexico, as well as in Baja California, Mexico, but has not been found in other states. In connection with the suppression program in progress since 1955, an experimental culture of khapra beetle has been reared in the laboratory under quarantine conditions to develop information as rapidly as possible concerning the biology and control of this insect. Data given here concern food preferences, effect of environmental conditions on the biology of the beetle, and the reaction of starved larvae to low temperatures and fumigation. Results of experiments are given for contact insecticides as grain protestants. Data are presented on fumigation studies as follows: (1) penetration of methyl bromide into the soil;(2) effect of exposures of 2, 8, 24, and 8 hours and temperatures of 50° 70° and 90° on the control of khapra-beetle larvae by the use of acrylonitrile, ethylene chlorobromide, ethylene dibromide, hydrocyanic acid, and methyl bromide; and (3) fumigation of khapra-beetle larvae at 70° with a 24-hour exposure in the presence of no load and of one-half load of wheat of either 7 or 14% moisture content, using acrylonitrile, ethylene chlorbromide, ethylene dibromide, hydrocyanic acid, and methyl bromide.
The anti-nutrient contents of the pulp, seeds and rind of rambutanNepheliumlappaceumwere evaluated. The study was carried out on both fresh and dried samples. Results of the investigation revealled that the anti-nutritional components such as saponin, alkaloid, hydrocyanic acid, phenols, oxalate, tannins, phytates were detected in all the samples but at a varying tolerable concentrations. However, other anti-nutrient constituents were in small insignificant amount in all the parts of the fruits. Although there was a significant difference at (p< 0.05) in the antinutrient compounds in the different parts of the fruits, seeds and rind which are the parts always discarded on the basis of acclaim toxicity, their consumption can contribute immensely to recommended daily allowance and maintenance of good nutritional status and hence good health for both man and animals.
The Physicochemical properties and mineral element composition of exudates from Raffia palm (Raphia hookeri) were investigated. The proximate composition of the exudates shows that it contains moisture (90.14%), crude protein (2.5%), ash (9.5%), crude fat (2.64%), crude fiber (0.00%), carbohydrate (85.4%) and calorific value (375kcal/100g). Mineral composition (mg/100g) of the exudates was as follows: Calcium (55.31), Magnesium (26.60), Sodium (23.63), Potassium (20.95), Manganese (8.54), Cobalt (4.77) and Iron (4.57). The anti-nutrients evaluated (mg/100) in the exudates were Hydrocyanic acid (23.76), soluble Oxalate (44.00), total oxalates (61.60) and Phytic acid (7.82). These results indicate that the anti-nutrients and mineral elements present in the exudates are within acceptable levels for humans. The high amount of carbohydrate and low level of the toxicants present in the exudates makes it highly recommendable for use as an additive in food.
Sorghum bicolor x S. sudanense hybrid cv. Sudax ST6 and Echinochloa utilis cv. Shirohie were grown under irrigation at Trangie, New South Wales. Six rates of nitrogen (N) fertilizer were applied at sowing: 0, 25, 50, 120, 300, 450 kg N/ha. Height and dry matter yield were recorded at head emergence, together with the leaf hydrocyanic acid (HCN) potential, and leaf and stem dry matter digestibility, nitrogen, sulfur and sodium contents. Both the sorghum hybrid and the millet reached maximum forage yields (16.1 and 7.6 t/ha, respectively) at 350 kg N/ha. However, the tall-growing forage sorghum produced more dry matter than millet and consequently was more responsive to fertilizer nitrogen. In sorghum the leaf HCN potential increased linearly in response to N (8.5 x 10-4 %/kg N.ha). Since there was no compensating increase in the sulfur content (0.072%), and, assuming a requirement of 1.2 g S/g of HCN detoxified, sorghum lacked sufficient sulfur to detoxify the HCN potentially released in the rumen from sorghum receiving 150-200 kg N/ha. At this rate of nitrogen application, sorghum was producing only two-thirds of its forage yield potential. The sodium content of sorghum (0.013%) was not affected by nitrogen. In millet the nitrogen and sodium contents increased as applied nitrogen promoted growth. Plant sulfur was diluted initially but the nitrogen: sulfur ratio increased steadily (0.0067 units/kg N.ha). In contrast to sorghum, therefore, nitrogen fertilizer can be used to increase the dry matter yield of millet without jeopardizing forage quality and hence animal production.
The recent use of urea as a treatment for the crisis phase of sickle-cell anemia has prompted us to investigate the possibility that cyanate, which is in equilibrium with urea in solution, might itself prevent the sickling of erythrocytes. We have found that in contrast to the high concentration of urea (1 M) needed to prevent reversibly the in vitro sickling of 80% of the cells, potassium cyanate (0.01-0.10 M) irreversibly inhibits sickling to the same extent. The prevention of sickling is a function of the amount of [(14)C]cyanate incorporated into acidprecipitable protein (0.1-1.0 mol of cyanate per mol of hemoglobin). Most of the radioactivity is accounted for by carbamylation of the NH(2)-terminal valine residues of hemoglobin; there is no detectable carbamylation of the lysine or cysteine residues. The reactive species, HN=C=O (isocyanic acid), may be an analog of O=C=O since both compounds bind to the same valine residues of hemoglobin. Deoxygenated sickled cells also incorporate [(14)C]-cyanate, but the sickling is not reversed. Oxygenation results in normal morphology in 75% of these cells. Upon subsequent deoxygenation, these cells remain normal. Potassium cyanate (5 mM) was also found to be an effective inhibitor of the gelling of deoxyhemoglobin S.
Oxazole-2-thione was prepared by the condensation of glycolic aldehyde and thiocyanic acid. It was shown by i.r. spectroscopy that oxazole-2-thione, as well as its 4-methyl- and 4,5-dimethyl derivatives, existed as the thione form in solution.
An improved process is disclosed for preparing alpha , beta -diaminoacrylnitriles having the general formula (I) R R NC(R )=C(NR R )CN, in which R stands for hydrogen, substituted or non-substituted aliphatic residues with 1 to 30 carbon atoms, cycloaliphatic residues with 3 to 8 ring members or aromatic, heteroaromatic or araliphatic residues with 7 to 12 carbon atoms; R and R are the same or different and stand for hydrogen or an aliphatic residue with 1 to 15 carbon atoms, a cycloaliphatic residue with 3 to 8 ring members or an aromatic, heterocyclic or araliphatic residue with 7 to 12 carbon atoms, or residues R and R may be bound together into a 5- or 6-membered ring that may also carry another heteroatom. In this process, component (A) is reacted with components (B), (C) and (D) in any desired order. (A) is an alpha -dicarbonyl compound having the general formula R COCHO, in which R has the above-said meaning, or a reactive derivative of said carbonyl compound. (B) is a salt of sulphurous acid, sulphur dioxide or a sulphur dioxide-releasing reactive. (C) is an amine having the general formula HNR R or an aliphatic diamine having the general formula R HN-(CH2)n-NHR , in which the alkylene chain may also bear an R substituent having, like R , the above-said meaning and n equals 2 or 3, or derivatives that are converted into amine or diamine in reaction conditions. (D) is liquid or gaseous hydrocyanic acid or a hydrocyanic acid-releasing reactive. The reaction is carried out with at least 3.5 equivalent alkali compounds per mole of component A. The most part of the alkaline compound consists of potassium compounds and at least one alkali equivalent is added as a free alkaline lye, provided that the proportion of potassium equivalents be sufficiently high for all inorganic salts to remain practically completely in solution at the end of the reaction.
The thermodynamical stuty indicates that the synthesis of propylene carbonate(PC) from urea and propylene glycol is possible.The reaction process for synthesis of PC was investigated using ZnO catalyst.It was a stepwise process.At first,urea decomposed into isocyanic acid,which interacted with ZnO to form a relatively steady isocyanate species.Then propylene glycol reacted with isocyanate species to form hydroxypropyl carbamate(HPC),and the HPC lost ammonia to form PC.The catalysis of ZnO was striking in urea decomposition and the transformation of HPC to PC.
Cassava polyploid breeding has drastically improved our knowledge on increasing root yield and its significant tolerance to stresses. In polyploid cassava plants, increases in DNA content highly affect cell volumes and anatomical structures. However, the mechanism of this effect is poorly understood. The purpose of the present study was to compare and validate the changes between cassava cultivar NZ199 diploid and autotetraploid at proteomic levels. The results showed that leaf proteome of cassava cultivar NZ199 diploid was clearly differentiated from its autotetraploid genotype using 2-DE combined MS technique. Sixty-five differential protein spots were seen in 2-DE image of autotetraploid genotype in comparison with that of diploid. Fifty-two proteins were identified by MALDI-TOF-MS/MS, of which 47 were up-regulated and 5 were down-regulated in autotetraploid genotype compared with diploid genotype. The classified functions of 32 upregulated proteins were associated with photosynthesis, defense system, hydrocyanic acid (HCN) metabolism, protein biosynthesis, chaperones, amino acid metabolism and signal transduction. The remarkable variation in photosynthetic activity, HCN content and resistance to salt stress between diploid and autotetraploid genotypes is closely linked with expression levels of proteomic profiles. The analysis of protein interaction networks indicated there are direct interactions between the 15 up-regulation proteins involved in the pathways described above. This work provides an insight into understanding the protein regulation mechanism of cassava polyploid genotype, and gives a clue to improve cassava polyploidy breeding in increasing photosynthesis and resistance efficiencies.
Most European populations of white clover ( Trifolium repens L.) are polymorphic for cyano genesis: only plants which possess at least one func tional allele of the genes Ac and Li are able to re lease hydrocyanic acid when the leaves of the plant are damaged [1] . This release is due to the hydrolysis of the cyanogenic glucosides linamarin and lotaustralin by a ß-glucosidase called linamarase (E.C. 3.2.1.21) to produce a glucose molecule and an un stable cyanohydrin. The cyanohydrin in turn dissoci ates spontaneously or enzymatically to release HCN and either acetone or 2-butanone.
In trifluoroacetic acid, immonium cations were generated from S,S-dimethylsulfoximines in which the pyrrolinone ring was substituted. Nucleophiles such as alcohols, thiocyanic acid, thiols, or acetylacetone reacted with the immonium salts to yield 5-substituted 2-pyrrolin-4-ones.
Abstract A novel process for the separation of hafnium from thiocyanic acid medium using the mixture of diisobutyl ketone (DIBK) and tributyl phosphate (TBP) as the extractant was developed. This extraction process was investigated experimentally as a function of the amount of TBP added, acidity, zirconium and hafnium concentrations, salting-out agent, temperature, duration, respectively. The results show that hafnium is enriched in the organic layer and zirconium is in aqueous layer in DIBK-TBP system. Under the optimal technological conditions: TBP addition 20% (v/v), aqueous phase acidity 3.0 mol/L, ammonium sulfate addition 0.8–1.25 mol/L, room temperature and extraction time 10 min, the separation factor of hafnium from zirconium is 9.3.
The present paper presents the thermal behaviour of methyl-bambus[6]uril in its anion-free and chlorine-included form. Our study was based on thermogravimetry associated to Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy and differential scanning calorimetry. The compounds decompose after $$300\,^{\circ }\hbox {C}$$ ::: and both forms of this macrocycle, contain four hydration water molecules. The main decomposition products are $$\hbox {H}_2\hbox {O}$$ ::: , $$\hbox {CO}_2$$ ::: , $$\hbox {NH}_3$$ ::: and isocyanic acid as we could detect by FTIR spectroscopy. Finally, we verified that the caviplex loses its chloride ion after $$270\ ^{\circ }\hbox {C}$$ ::: and may produce the anion-free macrocyle upon heating.
The invention relates to a method and an apparatus for producing ammonia (NH¶3¶) and its subsequent delivery as a reducing agent in a resulting from a combustion process of an engine, a gas turbine or a burner exhaust stream for the selective catalytic reduction of nitrogen oxides contained therein. The inventive device is designed so that the inventive method as follows may occur. It is dry urea from a storage (7) in a controlled amount and fed into the latter by flash thermolysis in ammonia (NH¶3¶) and isocyanic acid (NHCO) cleaved a reactor (8). The resulting gas mixture is then immediately in the presence of water (H¶2¶O) catalytically treated so that the resulting from the flash thermolysis isocyanic (NHCO) by quantitative hydrolysis in ammonia (NH¶3¶) and carbon dioxide (CO¶2 ¶) is converted.
Single molecule reactions have been studied between nickel oxyhydroxide, urea, and the hydroxide ion to understand the process of urea dissociation into ammonia, isocyanic acid, cyanate ion, carbon dioxide, and nitrogen. In the absence of hydroxide ions, nickel oxyhydroxide will catalyze urea to form ammonia and isocyanic acid with the rate-limiting step being the formation of ammonia with a rate constant of 1.5 × 10−6 s−1. In the presence of hydroxide, the evolution of ammonia was also the rate-limiting step with a rate constant of 1.4 × 10−26 s−1. In addition, desorption of the cyanate ion presented an energy barrier of 6190 kJ mol−1 suggesting that the cyanate ion cannot be separated from NiOOH unless further reactions occurred. Finally, elementary dissociation reactions with hydroxide ions deprotonating urea to produce nitrogen and carbon dioxide were analyzed. These elementary reactions were investigated along three paths differing in the order that protons were removed and the nitrogen atoms were ro...
In the first part of this series, we proposed a statisticodynamical approach of state distributions in the products of four-atom planar unimolecular reactions governed by short-range forces. In this second part, the approach is tested against quasiclassical trajectory calculations on an ab initio potential energy surface. The process considered is the fragmentation of isocyanic acid in the first excited singlet electronic state. The study leads to a very good agreement between both methods. In addition to that, we pinpoint in the barrier case the main mechanical parameters governing the shape of rotational state distributions. It appears that these parameters are related to two distinct physical effects. The first one is of the impulsive type. The second, already observed in triatomic processes, is the so-called bending effect.
Defects of health are attributed to the smoking of cigarettes. In tobacco smoke, so far several hundred substances have been determined analytically and chemically. Hydrocyanic acid (as a respiratory poison) is a very weak acid, which is only with 0.16% contained in the gas stage of cigarettes. In spite of this small amount it can be detected in the plasma of blood in the form of thiocyanate. In this paper human blood was examined on the parameter thiocyanate in dependency of smoking cigarettes. The determination of thiocyanate was done with the blood plasma of 56 persons. The ascertainment of thiocyanate concentration was carried out photometrically in the human blood. The statistical analysis shows that the concentration of thiocyanate in blood increases with increasing number of cigarettes consumed daily. A positive correlation was found between the levels of thiocyanate concentrations.
Abstract The isothiocyanic acid HNCS (DNCS) and its complexes with nitrogen and xenon have been studied experimentally by FTIR matrix isolation technique and computationally with the use of ab initio calculations at the MP2 level. The spectra show that HNCS (DNCS) interacts specifically with nitrogen forming 1:1 hydrogen bonded complex in argon matrix while non-hydrogen bonded structure is probably formed in solid xenon. Two stable minima were localized on the potential energy surface. One of them involves an almost linear hydrogen bond from NH group of the acid molecule to nitrogen molecule lone pair (structure I) and has an interaction energy ΔECP equal to −6.85 kJ/mol. The second structure (II) where the nitrogen molecule interacts with the sulfur atom of the HNCS was found to be weaker bound and is characterized by ΔECP=−1.99 kJ/mol. A low energetic barrier of 5.86 kJ/mol between the structures I and II was found. Both experimental and theoretical results obtained for the Xe⋯HNCS system point to a structure with the NH group interacting with the xenon atom. An interaction energy ΔECP for this complex is equal to −3.64 kJ/mol.
Values of ΔH° and ΔS° for hydrocyanic acid dissociation have been determined to be, respectively, 11·33 and –4·05 (10°), 10·43, and –7·19 (25°), and 9·57 kcal. mole–1 and –10·26 cal. deg.–1 mole–1(40°). From the variation of ΔH° with temperature, a value of –60 cal. deg.–1 mole–1 is calculated for ΔCp° at 25°. All values are valid at infinite dilution.
The adsorption and reaction of HCONH{sub 2} and HCOND{sub 2} molecules on Ni(111) were studied following initial multilayer exposures with thermal desorption spectroscopy (TDS) and reflection absorption infrared spectroscopy (RAIR). At 90 K, formamide molecules (HCONH{sub 2}) adsorb on Ni(111) forming multilayers. Three molecular desorption peaks were observed at 160, 170, and 190 K, respectively. Heating this system to above 220 K leads to the decomposition of formamide molecules. Two parallel decomposition paths were observed. One path leads to the production of NH{sub 3}, H{sub 2}, and CO. The other path, which is first reported here, gives HNCO and H{sub 2}. Possible surface precursors for the two decomposition paths are discussed. The temperature-dependent RAIR spectra indicated that ammonia (NH{sub 3(a)}) was formed at about 230 K, isocyanic acid (HNCO{sub (a)}) at about 285 K, and CO at about 285 K. The observed desorption temperature from TDS are 260 K for ammonia (NH{sub 3}) 325 K for isocyanic acid (HNCO), 340 K for hydrogen (H{sub 2}), and 410 K for carbon monoxide (CO). The competing route for formamide decomposition that leads to HNCO production on Ni(111) has not been reported on other transition-metal substrates.
A young man was found dead in a kitchen, that was partly burnt. Autopsy revealed, as cause of death, a combined intoxication following inhalation of carbon monoxide and hydrocyanic acid. Own investigations on the pyrolysis of pieces of furniture found in the kitchen (plastic plates containing melamine and plates containing formaldehyde) showed, that hydrocyanic acid was liberated through combustion of such substances and inhaled by the victim. The poisoning picture is discussed, and discussion includes especially considerations on the peculiar sensitivity of the brain toward the action of hydrocyanic acid and the relative insensitivity of the heart muscle. It is thought that the cause of such sensitivity difference lies in the physiological differences of the intracellular energy production. Finally the dangers of combustion gases developing from burning plastic materials are reemphasized.
This study was a field trial of two experiments to examine the effect of crude cassava water extract (CCWE) as a natural post#emergence he rbicide on nutritional quality and bioaccumulation of hydrocyanic acid in cowpea seeds. The spraying of CCWE on cowpea plants was carried out weekly for 5weeks. Treatments of CCWE at 25 and 50% concentrations of MS6 (Manihot Selection), TMS30555 (Tropical Manihot Selection) and Bulk CCWE (different cassava varieties), hand weeded and unweeded (controls) were laid in randomised complete block design with three replications
All vegetative parts of the peach contain a glucoside which may be hydrolyzed to form hydrocyanic acid, benzaldehyde, and glucose by the action of any enzyme, or enzymes, also present in the various tissues. The cyanogenetic glucoside or glucosides are not present in the same concentration in all parts of the plant. Thus in the fruit flesh it is found only in very minute amounts, although some investigators (12) have reported it to be absent from this part. Cyanogen compounds are known to occur in many plants, however, but they are supposed to be present only as glucosides. Nevertheless, Willaman (26) and others have found in some plants what was regarded as either free hydrocyanic acid or hydrocyanic acid from a very unstable glucoside. Although no free hydrocyanic acid is known to exist in the peach, the cyanogenetic glucoside, or glucosides, are either more stable in dormant or slowly growing plants than in rapidly growing ones, or else their specific enzymes are relatively inactive in the slowly growing plants. Because of the presence of a nitrogenous glucoside, or glucosides, peach tissue cannot be macerated in the preparation of an extract of soluble nitrogen without a consequent loss of nitrogen. Certain modifications in the procedure commonly employed for plant analyses are necessary, therefore, and the nitrogen contained in this glucoside must be determined and removed completely from an aqueous extract of peach tissues before the remaining nitrogenous fractions can be determined accurately. In the present study an attempt has been made to modify the methods commonly employed for the determination of the nitrogenous fractions in plants in general, so that they may be used for investigations of these fractions in the tissues of the peach (Primus persica Stokes). The methods described are suitable for use with samples comprising 50 gm. or more of fresh plant material. Samples of this size have been found adequate to give representative results. Only aqueous extracts prepared from fresh plant material were regarded as suitable for use in this connection, since Chibnall (4) has shown that such extracts are more applicable than any others in a study of the nitrogen distribution in plants. The investigation is admittedly incomplete in that it does not include a study of the composition of all parts of the peach plant sampled at various 1 Journal Series paper of the New Jersey Agricultural Experiment Station, Department of Plant Physiology.
Abstract In this study we applied the new technique of fast thermolysis/FT-IR spectroscopy to quantification of the thermal decomposition gases from melamine-cyanurate fire retardant and melamine-cyanurate blending Nylon-66. We found the decomposition products to vary depending on the heating rate. At a fast heating rate dissociation of melamine-cyanurate salt to volatile melamine and cyanuric acid was detected. Moreover, Nylon-66 resin accelerated the decomposition of cyanuric acid to cyanic acid.
Abstract The kinetics of isocyanuric acid pyrolysis are determined in a tubular continuous flow reactor under atmospheric pressure, for temperatures ranging from 698 to 798 K and with residence times from 1 to 73 s. The main product of the pyrolysis is isocyanic acid (HNCO), a monomer of isocyanuric acid. Isocyanic acid itself decomposes into different products. With correct choice of temperature and residence times, the yield of isocyanic acid reaches 85%. The Arrhenius parameters derived are compared with literature data.
Abstract Isoperthiocyanic acid (3-amino-5-thione-1,2,4-dithiazole) (I), tetraethylthiuram monosulphide (“Tetmosol”) (II), eosin (III), and mercurochrome (IV) are used as new qualitative reagents for bismuth, III and IV are also used for detection of iron(II). A conc. sulphuric acid solution of I, or an acctone solution of II, when treated with bismuth in presence of potassium iodide, gives a deep red or reddish-orange precipitate, characteristic of bismuth. Bismuth in presence of III or IV gives a heavy and characteristically bright deeppink precipitate on addition of ammonia. With I, 1 μg of bismuth may be detected with a dilution limit of 1:50,000. Sb(III) and As(III) do not interfere in any of these tests. Iodides interfere only when I and II are used as reagents. Pb, Cu(II). and Fe(III) interfere with III and IV. I and II are also proposed as reagents for iodide; nitrites would interfere. III and IV, with iron(II) on addition of ammonia, produce a precipitate with highly intense green fluorescence. No other common cation [including Fe(III)] or anion interferes. The limit of detection is 3 μg ml .
Abstract The thermal treatment of formamide (HCONH 2 ) causes its decomposition yielding a black polymer. It is shown by FT-IR and 13 C NMR spectroscopy that the structure of the polymer from formamide is poly(hydrogen cyanide) (PHC). The TGA–FT-IR of PHC causes its depolymerization with a continuous release of HCN from 300 °C to 850 °C. Ammonia is also released from 200 °C and isocyanic acid (H–N C O) is released together with HCN and NH 3 from 350 °C. It is thought that PHC or its simple derivatives are responsible for the emission of HCN and CN radicals from comets. PHC is present on the surface of the comets or mixed with the ices and then is released copiously by depolymerization reaction caused by heat or by energetic photons and particles when the comets approach the sun. The thermal decomposition reaction of formamide is a quite complex reaction. In addition to PHC it produces CO and NH 3 and at higher temperatures also HCN. The formation of PHC is accompanied with the formation of ammonium carbamate (H 2 N–COONH 4 ) and ammonium carbonates. The heterocyclic compound isocyanuric acid and its tautomer have been thought to be formed as secondary products from formamide decomposition to explain the liberation of isocyanic acid during the pyrolysis experiment at the TGA–FT-IR. Additionally, purine has been isolated and characterized from PHC. At the temperature of the carbon arc formamide decomposes into CO, CO 2 , HCN and HC CH.
Cassava is a staple food for approximately 800 million people in ::: tropical countries. The tuber which comprises mainly starch also ::: contains high concentration cyanogenic glycosides which give rise to ::: the hydrocyanic acid by enzymatic hydrolysis. The purpose this research ::: therefore is to investigate the detoxification potential of ::: fermentation, on the toxic (cyanide) content of cassava tuber. The ::: fermentation process is achieved by soaking freshly peeled cassava ::: tuber and the fermentation of grated cassava tuber hence, two ::: fermentation treatments. This fermentation treatments were carried out ::: at intervals of 2 days by using 20g of the sample portions of the fresh ::: cassava tuber (UM 8082), which initially contained as high as ::: 160.46mg/HCN/kg of the tuber. The pH values of the medium were measured ::: daily to correlate it with on-going events. The Knowles and ::: Watkin’s method of steam distillation technique was used to ::: analyze the HCN (Hydrogen cyanide). Based on the experimental results ::: obtained, there was a remarkable drop or reduction of this toxic ::: principle in the tuber. Prolonged period of fermentation (5 to 6 days) ::: and favourable pH medium 4.0 to 4.5) was found to effect tremendously ::: HCN removal. In fact, 94.7% reduction that is 8.45 Mg/kg and 81.3% ::: reduction that is 28.70mg/kg was achieved for the soaked and grated ::: cassava tubers respectively. These values being below the recommended ::: value 30mg/kg for safe cyanide level in food-stuff indicates that ::: fermentation is an effective (and economic) method for detoxification ::: of cassava tuber for human consumption.
A mechanism for the ring formation of nickel phthalocyanine (Ni-Pc) has been proposed based on chemical kinetics. The effect of the catalyst on the rate was examined, and ammonium molybdate has been found to be the most effective. The reaction order of the ring formation was determined to be of the 1st order over all, with only the concentration of urea affecting the rate of the ring formation. All the results including thermodynamic parameters support a conclusion that the rate-determining step seems to be the enolization of the urea-catalyst transition complex, followed by fast decomposition of the tautomeric enolized urea into ammonia and isocyanic acid. These intermediates then reacted with the phthalic anhydride to form imino and diimino-phthalimide, which condense to form nickel phthalocyanine in the presence of the nickel cation.
A method was developed for the preparation of the 1-cyano-o-and m-carboranes by the reaction of either the C-lithium or C-bromomagnesium o- and m-carboranes with the aromatic esters of cyanic acid.
The experiments reported here were conducted on a soil amoeba, Mayorella palestinensis, which for the past few years has been grown in our institute in bacteria-free culture. The culture methods were as described previously (Reich, 1935). After a sudden decrease in growth of the cultures in 1951, the earlier 1 per cent Difco Proteose Peptone solution was exchanged for a mixture of 0.75 per cent Difco Proteose Peptone and 0.25 per cent Difco Yeast Extract. The amoebae used in the experiments were centrifuged from 2-3-week-old cultures. They were washed three times in a 0.15 per cent NaC1 solution and suspended in the 0.005 M KH2PO4-NaOH buffer solution containing 0.15 per cent NaCI used in earlier respiration experiments (Reich, 1948). In order to decrease the danger of distillation of the cyanic acid from the experimental solution, all the experiments with cyanide were conducted at pH 8.0. A buffer of pH 6.0 was chosen for the experiments with azide, since Keilin (1936) has shown the inhibition by azide of respiration of yeast cells to be nearly maximal at a range of pH 5.8-6.2, regardless of small fluctuations in the reaction of the solution. This wide range of reaction could be used in the present experiments without difficulty, since Reich (1948) has shown the normal respiration of M. palestinensis to be independent of the pH of the experimental solution at this pH range. In experiments with added glucose or peptone, the solution was brought to the d sired r action by the addition of small amounts of HC1 or NaOH. The exp riments were carried out in Warburg manometers at 270 C. for 4 hours. Two milliliters of the suspension of amoebae were placed in the outer chamber of the experimental vessel. In the inner chamber were placed 0.2 ml. of a 2 per cent KOH solution, which in the experiments with cyanide was replaced by the KOH-KCN mixture suggested by Krebs (1936). In order to bind the ammonia produced during the experiments, 0.2 ml. of a 3 per cent H2SO4 solution were pl ced in the side bulb of the respiratory vessel.
Apricot kernels, depending on the variety, contain the toxic cyanogenic glycoside amygdalin (19) . Amygdalin can be hydrolyzed to form glucose, benzaldehyde and hydrocyanic acid. Enzymatic release of cyanide occurs in the presence of β-glucoronidase, an enzyme found in the human intestine (20) .
Urea is also a precursor of ethyl carbamate in alcoholic beverages, through the reaction with ethanol. Its presence in cachaça comes from urea-containing soil fertilizers, or from a supplementary source of nitrogen for sugar cane juice for fermentation. The formation of ethyl carbamate in wine has been associated with high concentrations of urea during fermentation [16] . Urea may also be formed by the degradation of arginine. The thermal decomposition of urea during distillation releases cyanic acid, a precursor of ethyl carbamate in spirits [9, 17] . A strong correlation between the presence of urea in fermented juice and ethyl carbamate concentrations in sugar cane spirit has been observed [15] . Supplementation of sugar cane juice with urea caused the production of higher concentrations of ethyl carbamate in cachaças [18] .
Consumers' concern about maintaining health and preventing certain diseases has contributed to increasing the market demand for healthier, low-fat, low-sugar, and fiber-containing products, especially bakery products, which are consumed in large quantities in a daily routine, with an important role in human nutrition (Martins et al., 2017) . Choudhury et al. (2015) reported that replacing up to 10% wheat flour for bamboo shoot fiber in cookies formulations enhanced the nutraceutical and functional properties due to the presence of phenolic compounds, fibers, proteins, and vitamin C. evaluated the water retention capacity of bamboo shoot fiber in Amaretti biscuits, which contains almond flour rather than wheat flour, and found that Effect of the addition of young bamboo culm flour as a sugar and/or fat substitute in cookie formulations the addition of fiber limited the sugar crystallization, maintaining the traditional texture characteristics of the product after 10 days of storage. However, before using bamboo shoots in food formulations, they must be previously submitted to appropriate treatment, as is done with cassava, which goes through the drying/ roasting process (Cereda, 2003) , since they also present in its composition cyanogenic glycosides, linamarin and taxifilina, which are compounds that can form hydrocyanic acid (about 1000 mg/kg) (Satya et al., 2010; Satya et al., 2012) . Therefore, it is expected that these compounds content decrease with the growth of the culm, so the young bamboo culm may present a lower content of these toxic compound.
All vegetative parts of the peach contain a glucoside which may be hydrolyzed to form hydrocyanic acid, benzaldehyde, and glucose by the action of any enzyme, or enzymes, also present in the various tissues. The cyanogenetic glucoside or glucosides are not present in the same concentration in all parts of the plant. Thus in the fruit flesh it is found only in very minute amounts, although some investigators (12) have reported it to be absent from this part. Cyanogen compounds are known to occur in many plants, however, but they are supposed to be present only as glucosides. Nevertheless, WILLAMAN (26) and others have found in some plants what was regarded as either free hydrocyanic acid or hydrocyanic acid from a very unstable glucoside. Although no free hydrocyanic acid is known to exist in the peach, the cyanogenetic glucoside, or glucosides, are either more stable in dormant or slowly growing plants than in rapidly growing ones, or else their specific enzymes are relatively inactive in the slowly growing plants.
The term "criss-cross" cycloaddition first appeared in two 1917 papers by Bailey and McPherson, who discovered this reaction. The first article described the cycloaddition of cyanic acid to benzalazine [1] . The second dealt with cycloaddition of cyanic, isothiocyanic acid and phenyl isocyanate with aromatic aldazines (prepared from benzaldehyde, 3-nitrobenzaldehyde, cinnamaldehyde and furfuraldehyde) [2] . A general mechanism for these reactions is shown in Scheme 1. Aldazines react as dipoles with two molecules of a dipolarophile to form heterocyclic compounds with two fused five-membered rings -in this case tetrahydro- [1, 2, 4] triazolo [1,2-a] [1, 2, 4] triazole-1,5-diones substituted in positions 3 and 7. Since then, a number of papers have appeared listing examples of criss-cross cycloadditions of various dipolarophiles and aldazines [3] . In addition to aldazines, the reaction has been observed only for a few ketazines [4, 5] , glyoxalimines [6] [7] [8] [9] and 1,2-diazabuta-1,3-dienes [7] [8] [9] [10] . Hexafluoroacetonazine behaves in an exceptional way and reacts with various types of compounds including alkenes [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] [13] [14] [15] Within the alicyclic ketazines group, a criss-cross cycloaddition of KNCO in acetic acid [5] (Scheme 2), and cycloaddition of ammonium thiocyanate to cyclohexanone azine in acetic acid [9] (Scheme 3) are of significance. When other common dipolarophiles were used with cyclohexanone azine, no criss-cross products were observed. For example N-butylmaleinimide with cyclohexanone azine gave an addition product at the 2-position (Scheme 3) [10, 11] . The methyl ester of acrylic acid reacts in a similar way [12] . Such behaviour of alicyclic ketazines is explained by a possible reaction of their tautomeric enamine forms, whereby the ketazine reacts as an enamine. Whereas cyclohexanone azine gives undefined products with other types of dipolarophiles such as maleic acid dimethyl ester, the product of the reaction with maleic acid anhydride is very much dependent on the solvent. Classical criss-cross product is formed in benzene, whereas in ether formation of monocyclohexylhydrazide of maleic acid is observed (Scheme 4) [13] .
In our work, we decided to investigate the reactivity of alicyclic ketones having a different ring size with cyanic and thiocyanic acid and substituted cyanates and isothiocyanates. We anticipated the formation of spiropolycyclic saturated heterocycles.
Introduction: Significant portions of the early Earth's prebiotic organic inventory, including amino acids, could have been delivered to the Earth's surface by comets and their fragments [I]. Analysis of comets via spectroscopic observations has identified many organic molecules, including methane, ethane, arnmonia, cyanic acid, formaldehyde, formamide, acetalehyde, acetonitrile, and methanol [2,3]. Reactions between these identified molecules could allow the formation of more complex organics such as amino acids. Analysis of samples of aerogel and aluminum foil exposed to comet 81PtWild2 and returned to Earth by the Stardust spacecraft indicated the presence of several amines and amino acids at levels exceeding those found in controls, as shown in Figure 1 [4,5]. The detected compounds included methylamine (MA), ethylamine (EA), and the amino acid glycine. The most abundant amine present in both the controls and the comet-exposed samples was E-amino-n-caproic acid (EACA), most likely originating from exposure to Nylon-6 [5].
Raw seed kernels of local mango varieties (Magnifera indica L.) were analyzed for composition, levels of trypsin inhibitors, tannins, cyanogenetic glucosides, in vitro protein digestibility and apparent metabolizable energy (AMEN) as being effected by boiling, autoclaving as well as irradiation at 5, 10, 15, and 20 kGy. The air-dry mango seed kernels (MSK) contained CP 70 g kg-1, EE 128 g kg-1, and tannins 67 g kg-1. Compared with raw kernels the contents of trypsin inhibitory activity (30 TIU g-1) and cyanogenetic glucosides, measured as hydrocyanic acid (71 mg kg-1), were lowered by boiling, autoclaving and radiation treatments. Tannin content (67.2 g kg-1 in raw kernels) was decreased only by boiling or autoclaving, but irradiation did not introduce any effect. The low in vitro protein digestibility and AMEN values of raw MSK were enhanced by processing. The improvements were paralleled to reductions in trypsin inhibitory activity, cyanogenetic glucosides and tannin contents. Greater improvements were noticed with boiling and autoclaving than with irradiation alone. Autoclaving for 30 min plus irradiation treatment up to 20 kGy increased the in vitro protein digestibility and AMEN by 139% and 72%, respectively. These results indicate that tannins, trypsin inhibitors and cyanogenetic glucosides are responsible for the poor nutritive value of MSK. The effects of feeding 200 g kg-1 raw or processed MSK on the performance of broiler chicks were examined. The inclusion of raw kernel affected body weight gain and feed consumption, while weight gain of birds fed the autoclaved (30 min) plus irradiated (20 kGy) kernels was significantly more improved than by the other treatments. However, feed conversion ratio was not significantly different between groups fed the processed MSK. The results showed that the combination of autoclaving for 30 min plus irradiation up to 20 kGy upgraded the nutritive value more than the other tested treatments and that this method is most effective in processing MSK to be used as animal feed.
The essential oils of papaya(Carica papaya L.)leaves obtained by using atmospheric distillation of water extraction were analyzed and divided into 109 peaks with the application of gas chromatography-mass spectrometry.72 kinds of com-pounds were identified through MS peak matching and retention index matching.They account for 90.5% of total volatile oil.The major components were Benzyl nitrile(57.49%),beta-Nitroethanol(12.01%),Thiocyanic acid phenylmethyl ester(5.35%),3-Nitropropanoic acid(2.43%),1-(1-Ethoxyethoxy)-propane(2.33%),(S)-2-hydroxy-Propanoic acid,ethylester(1.98%),2,4-Dimethyl-1,3-dioxane(1.52%),2,4,5-Trimethyl-1,3-dioxolane(1.40%),Coumaran(1.18%),alpha-Toluenol(1.12%).
The invention relates to a debittering process method for fresh bitter apricot kernels without adding a debittering agent. The method comprises steps of: (1) separating shells and kernels; (2) sorting and grading; (3) pre-boiling; (4) removing red coat; and (5) debittering. The invention is beneficial in that no additives are added during a debittering process to ensure that nutrient compositions of the apricot kernels are not destroyed, and the treated apricot kernels contains less than 5 % of hydrocyanic acid, thereby being harmless to human body. The bitter apricot kernels contain a lot of hydrocyanic acid and are harmful to human body if directly eaten. Debittered apricot kernels contain amygdalin which can be hydrolyzed by intestinal microbial enzymes in the human body or an amygdalase contained in the bitter apricot kernels, and small amounts of hydrocyanic acid and benzaldehyde are generated, and thus respiratory center can be inhibited, thereby achieving effects of relieving cough and asthma.
In vitro covalent binding of radioactivity from [14C]thiourea (TU) to rat lung protein occurs in the presence of 100% CO2. Prior boiling of lung slices results in a subsequent increase in covalent binding. Covalently bound radioactivity was released from rat lung homogenates and acid-insoluble protein obtained from animals treated with [14C]TU. The release was achieved with ammonium ion. One possibility suggested by these results is that the bound species may involve binding of isothiocyanic acid via a thiocarbamylation reaction.
Objective Urea undergoes a spontaneous, nonenzymatic transformation to cyanate, the active part of which is isocyanic acid, which can cause modifications of a variety of proteins in a process called carbamylation. We postulated that, in patients with renal disease, the carbamylation of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) is a nontraditional risk factor for cardiovascular disease, and that elevated urea leads to carbamylated LDL (cLDL), which causes vascular injury and leads to atherosclerosis. Results We showed that carbamylated LDL manifests all of the biological effects relevant to atherosclerosis, including endothelial-cell injury, the expression of adhesion molecules, and vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation. We also developed an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay to measure carbamylated LDL in patients, and showed that cLDL is markedly elevated in dialysis patients. Conclusions Our data indicate that cLDL may be an important nontraditional risk factor for atherosclerosis in patients with kidney disease.
Abstract The nature of the interaction of isocyanic acid (HNCO) with the active centers at the ideal anatase TiO 2 (1 0 1) surface were studied using ab initio density functional theory (DFT) method with a cluster model. Two types of adsorption of isocyanic acid are found to be likely at (1 0 1) surface – dissociative and molecular adsorption. Only molecular adsorption of HNCO leads to the direct weakening and further splitting of the N C bond, which is a necessary step for the hydrolysis of isocyanic acid. During molecular adsorption of HNCO, an energetically stable intermediate surface complex is created with an adsorption energy of −1.33 eV, in which the HNCO skeleton is changing due to new strong bonds between C–O s and N–Ti s . Based on the existence of this intermediate complex a probable reaction pathway for the hydrolysis of HNCO over the ideal anatase (1 0 1) surface was developed. A surface oxygen vacancy was formed after the decomposition of the intermediate complex and CO 2 desorption. Afterwards, water adsorbs at the oxygen vacancy site and NH 3 is successively formed. The HNCO hydrolysis over TiO 2 was found to be energetically favorable with global energy gain of about −2.08 eV.
Kpukpuru is a fermented cassava staple which is gaining attraction as a weaning food in the rural communities of the riverine areas of Ondo State of Nigeria. Cassava is harvested, peeled, washed, fermented, dehydrated, moulded into large balls, and kept over a fireplace to smoke-dry in order to preserve the product for months or years. This cassava product is consumed by both young and adults but its novel use as a weaning diet for babies from four months upwards is intriguing. The fermentation and pressing remove considerable hydrocyanic acid (HCN) and lowers pH while the smoking completely eliminates HCN and gelatinizes its starch granules rendering it easily digestible by babies. Mothers in these villages scrape off the smoky part, break the dried moulded balls, pound them, and sieve out the powdered cassava flour. This is stirred with hot water (just as custard or maize pap). Some mothers feed babies with this preparation alone and support with breast milk. Elite ones fortify it with baby milk. The improved technology incorporating soya bean powder or paste into the Kpukpuru gruel will go a long way to alleviate the malnutrition that is occasioned by feeding Kpukpuru alone to children.
A trivial flaw in the utilization of artificial neural networks in interpolating chemical potential energy surfaces (PES) whose descriptors are Cartesian coordinates is their dependence on simple translations and rotations of the molecule under consideration. A different set of descriptors can be chosen to circumvent this problem, internuclear distances, inverse internuclear distances or z-matrix coordinates are three such descriptors. The objective is to use an interpolated PES in instanton rate constant calculations, hence information on the energy, gradient, and Hessian is required at coordinates in the vicinity of the tunneling path. Instanton theory relies on smoothly fitted Hessians, therefore we use energy, gradients, and Hessians in the training procedure. A major challenge is presented in the proper back-transformation of the output gradients and Hessians from internal coordinates to Cartesian coordinates. We perform comparisons between our method, a previous approach and on-the-fly rate constant calcuations on the hydrogen abstraction from methanol and on the hydrogen addition to isocyanic acid. © 2018Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
The present invention relates generally to a method for the production of acetone cyanohydrin, comprising as steps: A. contacting acetone and hydrocyanic acid in a reactor to a reaction mixture, wherein the reaction mixture is circulated and acetone cyanohydrin is obtained; b. Cooling at least a portion of the reaction mixture by passing through a cooling region of a cooler, the cooler including a cooling element or at least two cooling elements; C. discharging at least a portion of the acetone cyanohydrin obtained from the reactor, wherein based on the total inner volume of the cooler, the volume of the cooling region of the radiator is greater than the volume of the cooling element or the at least two cooling elements of the cooler, a process for preparing an alkyl methacrylate, a process for the production of methacrylic acid, to an apparatus for preparing alkyl methacrylates a method for producing at least partially based on methacrylic polymers, the use of the methacrylic acid alkyl ester obtainable from the process of this invention in chemical products, and chemical products, based on the available by the inventive processes methacrylic acid alkyl esters.
The US Department of Energy (DOE) has commissioned the HYGAS environmental assessment program to characterize various solid, liquid, and gaseous streams in the HYGAS pilot plant. The purpose of this manual is to describe the various analytical techniques that have been used to analyze pilot plant streams for environmental species. Many of the techniques have been recommended by the US Environmental Protection Agency or otherwise have been published in ASTM Standards, Standard Methods, and assorted vendor equipment manuals. Complete references have been provided in the text. Analytical techniques for the determination of the following are included: ammonia-nitrogen; biochemical oxygen demand; chemical oxygen demand; chlorides; total cyanide; grease and oil; total organic carbon; phenol; total, suspended, and dissolved solids; sulfide; total sulfur; thiocyanate; total oxygen demand; hydrocyanic acid in gas; hydrogen sulfide in gas; gaseous hydrocarbons; organic compounds in HYGAS light oil and aqueous samples; proximate analysis of coal; ultimate analysis of coal; calorific value; screen analysis; bulk density; and trace elements in coal (arsenic, antimony, selenium, tellurium, barium, beryllium chromium, copper, iron, lithium, manganese, nickel, tin, vanadium, zinc, boron, cadmium, lead, thallium, chlorine, cobalt, fluorine, mercury, and molybdenum). (DMC)
Reactions which can produce and consume isocyanic acid (HNCO) over two types of catalysts active for the reduction of nitrogen oxides have been investigated. More than 1000 ppm HNCO can be produced by the reduction of 3000 ppm NO with H2/CO mixtures over a Pt/SiO2 catalyst. Complete hydrolysis of HNCO to ammonia and carbon dioxide occurs if even weakly catalytic materials, such as CeO2/SiO2 and BaO/SiO2, are placed downstream. Isocyanic acid is also involved as an intermediate in the reaction of nitromethane over Co‐ZSM5 and Cu‐ZSM5 under the conditions of hydrocarbon SCR. In the initial stages of reaction there is complete conversion through to N2 with Cu‐ZSM5 but the process stops at ammonia with Co‐ZSM5 at temperatures below 350°C. In both cases, but especially with Co‐ZSM5, isocyanic acid becomes observable as the catalyst deactivates during continuous exposure at temperatures below about 290°C. In situ FTIR measurements indicate that deactivation is due to a reaction between isocyanic acid and ammonia which generates cyclic s‐triazine compounds.
Among the diseases that affect the coffee crop, bacterial blight caused by Pseudomonas syringae pv. garcae (Psg) stands out due to production losses. This study evaluates the antagonistic effect of Bacillus spp. against Psg both in vitro and in coffee seedlings. In vitro antagonism was evaluated by the double layer method for the inhibition of Psg growth. Subsequently, in vitro selected antagonists were tested for their ability to inhibit bacteriosis in coffee seedlings (cv. Mundo Novo) under greenhouse conditions. It was evaluated nonspecific met­abolic production by antagonistic bacteria and identified the isolates that stood out in the in vitro experiment. Iso­lates considered as the most promising in vitro experiments (23% of the total) were chosen for the antagonistic efficiency test in a greenhouse. Isolates B04, B05, B22, B31, B53, B202, B208, B264, B266, and B294 showed ammonia production. Isolates B04, B33, and B294 showed hydrocyanic acid production. Isolates B04, B05, B18, B22, B33, B53, B105, B202, B208, B264, and B294 showed siderophores production. In addition, isolates B18 ( B. subtilis ), B22 ( B. thuringiensis serovar israelensis ), B05 ( B. methylotrophicus ), B53 ( B. safensis ), B202 ( B. subtilis ), and B33 ( B. subtilis ) reduced more than 80% the severity of bacterial blight under greenhouse condi­tions. Field experiments should be conducted to confirm the potential of these isolates for bacterial blight man­agement.
Local minima, saddle points, and connecting intrinsic reaction paths for the decomposition of guanidinium formate (GuFo) on a (101) TiO2-anatase surface and in the gas phase have been studied on the basis of density functional theory (DFT) energy surfaces. We are aware of only one preceding electronic structure theory study of reaction barriers at a slab surface model. The formation of ammonia and carbon dioxide as final products of the GuFo decomposition is proposed to proceed in three principal stages: first, the decomposition of GuFo to guanidine and formic acid, then the hydrolysis or decomposition of guanidine to ammonia and carbon dioxide via urea and isocyanic acid intermediates, and, in parallel to the latter, the decomposition of formic acid to water and carbon monoxide or to hydrogen and carbon dioxide. The moment in which water enters the decomposition of guanidine is crucial and determines its course. Temperature-programmed decomposition experiments propose a decomposition of guanidine to urea...
The photochemistry of tetrazoles in general has been the subject of several studies by different methods, including matrix-isolation infrared spectroscopy [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] . All these studies demonstrated that, in general, cleavage of the tetrazole ring occurs after UV-irradiation. However, the precise nature of the substituents present in the tetrazole ring was found to strongly determine the final photoproducts. In spite of the fact that it can be expected to be as rich as for other tetrazoles already studied, the photochemistry of mercaptotetrazoles has not yet been subjected to detailed investigation. To the best of our knowledge, only the 20 years old study of Quast and Nahr [18] has been reported hitherto. In that study, the photochemistry of some 1-phenyl-5-mercaptotetrazoles was investigated in solution and carbodiimides, phenylcyanamide, molecular nitrogen and sulphur were found to be main products [18] resulting from photolysis. On the other hand, thermochemical reactivity of this kind of compound has been analyzed by different techniques [19] [20] [21] [22] . In the gaseous phase, thermolysis of MTT was studied by real-time gas analysis controlled by photoelectron spectroscopy and it was found to follow three main different pathways, yielding (a) methyl isothiocyanateCazide, (b) methyl azideCisothiocyanic acid and (c) molecular sulphur/sulphidric acidCmolecular nitrogenCN-methylcarbodiimide [19] . A multitude of possible photochemical reaction pathways, leading to different products, can also be foreseen. The fact that in a matrix the processes are cage-confined (molecular diffusion is inhibited) introduces a useful simplification to the study of the photochemical reactivity, since no cross-reactions can, in principle, take place and only primary unimolecular reactions are expected. These characteristics give further support to the approach followed in the present study.
Carbamylation of the haemoglobin molecule by isocyanic acid, the reactive form of cyanate in aqueous solution which derives from the spontaneous dissociation of urea, can take place at either the amino groups of the amino-terminal valine residues or the s-amino groups of lysine residues of both ex and (3chains. However, at physiological pH, the amino-terminal groups are carbamylated 50 to 100 times faster than the s-amino groups.'
Bacterial volatile organic compounds (VOCs) have been considered as sensitive and specific biomarkers for bacterial detection in human specimens and culture media. The possibility of using VOCs markers as one of the largest groups of bacterial metabolites would open a new frontier for developing more efficient techniques in the diagnosis of bacterial infections. The aims of this research were analysis of the bioactive chemical products and evaluation of antibacterial and antifungal activity. Bioactives (chemical compounds often referred to as secondary metabolites) were analyzed using gas chromatography-mass spectroscopy (GC-MS) techniques, then the in vitro antibacterial and antifungal activity of the methanolic extract was evaluated. Thirty five bioactive compounds were identified in the methanolic extract of Staphylococcus aureus. GC-MS analysis of Staphylococcus aureus revealed the existence of the: Hexanoic acid , 2-methyl, 12,15-Octadecadiynoic acid , methyl ester, 1-Aminononadecane , 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, Cystine, 3, butylamine, 3-methoxy-2-(1-methylethyl)-5-(2-methylpropyl)pyrazine, Uric acid, Thiocyanic acid 4-methoxy-2,6-dimethyl-3-pyridyl ester, 12-Dimethylamino-10-oxododecanoic acid, Glycyl-D-asparagine, Actinomycin C2, 12-Octadecenoic acid , methyl ester, 6-Octadecenoic acid , methyl ester ,(z)-, 2,5-Piperazinedione , 3,6-bis(2-methylpropyl)-, l-Leucyl-d-leucine and Methyl 12-hydroxy-9-octadecenoate. Gramineae poaceae was very highly active (6.71±0.13) mm. The results of anti-fungal activity produced by Staphylococcus aureus showed that the volatile compounds were highly effective to suppress the growth of Aspergillus terreus. Staphylococcus aureus produce many important secondary metabolites with high biological activities. Based on the significance of employing bioactive compounds in pharmacy to produce drugs for the treatment of many diseases, the purification of compounds produced by Staphylococcus aureus can be useful.
Once diapause is complete, the adult emerges from the seed by creating a small exit hole in the seed coat, which can be easily overlooked ( figure 1A ). An examination of coriander seeds regenerated at the NCRPIS revealed a local chalcid infestation by 1992. Chalcid specimens from recently infested coriander seeds were sent to the Systematic Entomology Laboratory, Beltsville, Maryland and identified as S. coriandri (Gates, personal communication) . Figure 1 . Digital images of coriander seeds. A. Intact seeds with chalcid exit holes, indicated by arrows. B. Live larvae from controls (left two) and dead larvae from LN 2 treated coriander seeds (right two). C. Dead larvae from 'natural' causes compared to LN 2 treated larvae. Top row 'natural', bottom row LN 2 . Magnification levels of images are not equal. Size scales are in millimeters. Lamborot et al. (1993) reported that chalcid infestations were first detected in Chile in 1984, but by 1986, infestation levels at some locations were as high as 75%. They surmised that the introduction of S. coriandri resulted from importation of infested coriander seeds from Europe and Asia, and attributed its rapid dispersal in Chile to the lack of detection in infested commercial seed and inappropriate cultural practices. Several methods have been described to eliminate chalcid infestations in coriander seeds. Verma (1986 Verma ( , 1987 Verma ( , 1988 reported effective control of chalcids in coriander seeds by fumigating with methyl bromide and hydrocyanic acid without deleterious effects on seed viability. However, the complexity of the treatment apparatus, the unusual method of soaking seeds before treatment as reported in one paper (Verma, 1988) , and the inherent danger to personnel by exposure to toxic gases rendered these methods unsuitable.
The term "monad" has been used by Gottfried Leibniz to describe the "elementary particles", but actually it has been in use by philosophers since early times starting with the Pythagoreans, and later on by Giordano Bruno and others. The characteristic of a monad is that it does not just define a smallest physical unit from a materialistic point of view, but that is has-above all-a "functional" OPEN ACCESS meaning. One might even be tempted to say that this term seems to break down the universalism debate to its smallest unit: "Materialism versus idealism", "structure and function", "being and time", "essentia et accedentia" (the terms "accidentia" and "accedentia" are both in use, frequently not sharply separated; the first term denotes the accidental nature, while the latter means that something is joining). The whole dualistic philosophical debate can be held at the level of the monad. Applying such a broad interpretation in our time of systems biology, the old fashioned term seems particularly helpful to define smallest units of a system. Beyond that, these units intrinsically contain the potential for the relevant functional parameters of the system. In the case of the biomolecules, the term monad stands for a smallest biomolecule exhibiting an intrinsic reactivity sufficient to build up a primordial premetabolic system, from which the metabolic system can evolve as one of the crucial functional elements of living systems apart from compartmentalization, homoeostasis and propagation. Over the last three decades, this paper's corresponding author's research group has published a number of contributions relating to the hypothesis that the intrinsic reactivity of formaldehyde may lead to the formation of a rather comprehensive set of defined prebiotic biomolecules, thus fostering concepts of evolution considering the existence of a premetabolic system as a primordial step in the generation of life. We will offer a definition of this new term later in this paper. In this article we will summarize our experiments and contributions to supporting the notion that formaldehyde can be considered a key monad to the formation of larger functional biomolecules besides hydrocyanic acid and formamide [1] .
According to Lanna et al. (2010) , Bacillus spp. isolates produce a resistance structure called endospore, which enables their longer survival in the environment and a longer shelf life of bioproducts based on this bacterium. In addition, bacteria of the genus Bacillus may have multiple antagonistic mechanisms against phytopathogens, such as antibiosis, systemic resistance induction, competition for space and nutrients, synthesis of antimicrobial substances, and production of nonspecific compounds such as ammonium, hydrocyanic acid, and siderophores. However, the use of bacterial isolates of the genus Bacillus for biological control of P. syringae pv. garcae in coffee is not yet established in Brazil.
In this study, bacteria were isolated from the rhizosphere and inside the roots of canola (Brassica napus L.) plants grown in the field from northern Iran. Firstly, 150 strains (endophytic and rhizospheric isolates) isolated from canola were characterized for plant growth promoting (PGP) traits. Of them, one hundred isolates produced indole- 3-acetic acid (IAA), whereas 17 isolates solubilized phosphate, 44 isolates produced siderophore, 34 produced 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate (ACC) deaminase and five produced hydrocyanic acid (HCN). All of the screened isolates with different growth promoting traits were separately inoculated as different mixtures on two rice cultivars under gnotobiotic conditions. A total of 22 endophytic isolates were re-isolated from two rice cultivars and characterized for Plant Growth Promoting (PGP) traits again. All 22 endophytic isolates produced IAA. Secondly, the colonization and growth promoting effects of the IAA producing endophytic strains were compared in inoculated rice plantlets as single-strain inoculants. All of the IAA producing strains were consistently more active in colonizing rice seedlings as compared with other isolates. Therefore, it seems that IAA production may be required for endophytic competence as compared to other PGP traits in rice seedlings. In addition, this study indicates that the selected bacterial isolates based on their IAA producing trait have the potential for PGP and more colonization of rice.
We have studied cyanuric acid (H(3)C(3)N(3)O(3)) at static pressures up to 8.1 GPa and simultaneous temperatures up to 750 K, using primarily infrared absorption spectroscopy and visual observation. The corresponding phase diagram compares favorably with theoretical predictions of metastable organic materials. Two reactions were observed and characterized; both are irreversible. Below 2 GPa, melting is accompanied by a decomposition reaction, and upon cooling, cyanuric acid is not recovered. Above 2 GPa, heating results in a solid product recoverable at ambient conditions. Corresponding infrared spectra suggest that pressure leads to the formation of heterocycles of increasing complexity and biological potential, with the composition determined by the pressure of formation. Cyanuric acid is of interest at these conditions because it and its monomer, isocyanic acid, are "prebiotic" compounds found in stellar dust clouds, meteorites, and other remnants of the early Earth.
Cassava producers in the region of Marilia-Sao Paulo are integrating their farming activity with beekeeping to diversify their income. The aim of this study was to evaluate the physicochemical and microbiological quality of honey samples produced by Africanized honeybees Apis mellifera from cassava flower in 2008. Analysis were carried out for pH, total soluble solids (TSS), acidity, moisture, reducing and total sugars, apparent sucrose, hydroxymethylfurfural, color, ash, proteins, water insoluble solids, diastasic activity, mineral content, microbiological evaluations, and mineral and hydrocyanic acid (HCN) content. The honey samples showed physicochemical and microbiological characteristics favorable to commercialization, with the exception of apparent sucrose and acidity, which show the need for a narrow focus of attention to the honey maturation degree at the harvest time and more careful monitoring during production and processing. The commercialization of Brazilian cassava honey, still little explored, can be widely spread in the market since the levels of hydrocyanic acid (HCN) showed no consumption risk; in addition the simultaneous production of honey and cassava provides an alternative to family income increase.
Abstract does not appear. First page follows. ::: Under certain conditions of fumigation for scale insects of citrus trees, hydrocyanic acid (HCN) ::: is known to cause injury to the foliage and fruit. The physiological reactions involved ::: in the injury have received but slight quantitative investigation. Undoubtedly the ::: reasons for this have been the difficulties encountered in distilling HCN from materials ::: containing volatile substances which are reactive with HCN. The lack of a method with ::: sufficient accuracy to recover relatively small amounts of HCN from the tissues may ::: also have been an important factor. ::: The results reported in this paper are concerned only with the factors affecting the ::: distillation and recovery of HCN from solutions in the absence of tissues and also ::: in the presence of citrus foliage and fruits. Earlier attempts to recover HCN from ::: fumigated citrus tissues by aspiration, partial vacuum, immersing and shaking the ::: tissues in an alkaline solution, or by a combination of these processes have given ::: unsatisfactory results. All statements in this paper concerning the recovery of HCN ::: from citrus tissues refer to HCN added by fumigation or by other methods. Repeated ::: tests by Bartholomew and Raby (3) and in the present investigation have shown that citrus tissues do not contain autogenous ::: HCN. ::: An investigation is being made of the physiological effects of HCN in citrus tissues.
FIELD: chemistry. SUBSTANCE: invention relates to compositions for machine washing of dishes and utensils, comprising (A) in combination in the range from 1 to 50 wt % of at least one amino carboxylates selected from metilglitsindiatsetata (MGDA), as well as its salts, (B) an aggregate in the range from 0.001 to 5 wt % of at least one alkileniminovogo polymer which is covalently modified by at least one carboxylic acid or at least one carboxylic acid or at least one derivative of carbonic sour you, wherein a maximum of 75 mol % of the nitrogen atoms of primary and secondary amino groups of mentioned alkyleneimine polymer react with carboxylic acid, carboxylic acid derivative, respectively, carbonic acid, respectively, or with hydrocyanic acid and formaldehyde, in each case in terms of the solids content of the corresponding composition. EFFECT: glass corrosion inhibition. 16 cl, 3 tbl
Stimulated Raman excitation (SRE) efficiently prepares excited vibrational levels in the ground electronic state of isocyanic acid, HNCO. Photofragment yield spectroscopy measures the electronic absorption spectrum out of initially selected states by monitoring laser induced fluorescence (LIF) of either NCO (X 2Π) or NH (a 1Δ) photofragments. Near threshold, the N–H bond fission is predissociative, and there is well-resolved rotational and vibrational structure in the NCO yield spectra that allows assignment of Ka rotational quantum numbers to previously unidentified vibrational and rotational levels in the ν1 N–H stretch and ν3 N–C–O symmetric stretch fundamentals in the ground electronic state of HNCO. The widths of NCO yield resonances depend on the initial vibrational state, illustrating one way in which initial vibrational state selection influences dissociation dynamics. Initial excitation of unperturbed ν1 (N–H stretch) states leads to diffuse NCO yield spectra compared to excitation of mixed vibra...
The conversion of 1-[2-(2-arylhydrazono)alkyl]pyridinium iodides (1) with potassium thiocyanate into 1-arylamino-2,3-dihydro-1H-imidazole-2-thiones (4) is envisaged to result from the [3 + 2] cycloaddition reaction of intermediate arylazoalkenes (2) and thiocyanic acid via the azomethine imine cycloadducts (3) followed by 1,4-hydrogen shift
Abstract Cu(0 0 1)-bound isocyanate species (NCO ( a ) ) have been prepared with two distinct methods. Isocyanic acid (HNCO) exposures at room temperature resulted in adsorbed NCO ( a ) alone. The exposure of Cu(0 0 1) to cyanogen (C 2 N 2 ) and O 2 leads to surfaces displaying co-adsorbed oxygen (O ( a ) ), cyanide (CN ( a ) ), and NCO ( a ) species. O 2 exposure of submonolayer NCO/Cu(0 0 1), followed by brief annealing at 473 K, initiated NCO ( a ) oxidation, giving rise to CO 2( g ) desorption and a surface-bound atomic N ( a ) species. CO 2( g ) evolution was observed over a wide range of initial O ( a ) coverages. In contrast, comparable thermal treatments of CN + O + NCO/Cu(0 0 1) samples, at 473 K, yield both CO ( g ) and CO 2( g ) . Both TPRD and XPS studies of pre- and post-annealed surfaces indicated the two gaseous products. The co-adsorption of CN ( a ) promotes the dissociation of NCO ( a ) into CO ( g ) and N ( a ) , and dissociation can become the dominant means for NCO ( a ) removal.
The present invention relates to a method and apparatus L-2- hydroxy-4-methylthiobutyric calcium continuous production using crude hydrocyanic acid D,. The apparatus comprises a synthesis column hydrocyanic acid column, multi-stage series tank reactors, tank reactors, calcium salts and synthesis reactor cooling crystallizer; further comprising a cryogenic storage tank, incinerators, stripping column; continuous production of D , L-2- hydroxy-4-methylthiobutyric calcium, comprising preparing a mixed gas ⅱ cyanate prepared in a multi-stage 2-hydroxy-tank reactors in tandem 4-methylthiobutanenitrile, dried autoclave reactor preparation of D, L-2- hydroxy-4-methylthiobutyric acid, calcium D was prepared in the synthesis reactor, L-2- hydroxy-4-methylthiobutyric calcium; also use the low temperature reservoir cans, incinerator, etc. The product stripper or residue treated reaction. The method and apparatus of the present invention utilize crude hydrocyanic acid and crude methylthio propionaldehyde continuous production of D, L-2- hydroxy-4-methylthiobutyric calcium, low production costs and less side reactions and high yields , can achieve large-scale industrial continuous production.
Abstract The conversion of aliphatic ketazines 1 with cyanic acid into the “criss cross” cycloadducts, the triazolo-triazolediones 2 , followed by oxidative ring opening provides an efficient synthetic route to the title compounds 4 .
The objective of this experiment was to determine the effect of conservation methods on cyanic acid (hydrocyanic acid, HCN) concentration of ceara rubber (Manihot glaziovii) leaves. Two types of natural drying methods [dried indirectly (IS) or directly (DS) under sunlight] or 3 silage additives [without molasses (0M), with 4% molasses (4M), or with 6% molasses (6M); DM basis] were applied to chopped ceara rubber leaves; each treatment was replicated in 5 replications. Results showed that fresh ceara rubber leaves contain 18.59% crude protein, 20.04% crude fiber, 32.73% neutral detergent fiber, 9.45% ether extract, 45.91% nitrogen free extract, and 0.22% HCN (DM basis). Greater decrease of HCN were shown by ceara rubber leaves with DS treatment than those with IS treatment (89.89 vs. 84.40%, respectively; p<0.05). Both the 4M and 6M treatments decreased HCN concentration (32.8 and 32.9 vs. 28.2%, respectively; p<0.05) and decreased pH (4.26 and 4.20 vs. 4.41, respectively; p<0.05) compared with the 0M treatment. Drying methods and silage additives did not affect in vitro digestibility of ceara rubber leaves. Data from this experiment imply that lower HCN concentration in ceara rubber hay can be achieved by drying those directly under the sunlight; while in silage, the HCN concentration can be decreased by adding molasses during the ensilage process.
SummaryPost-treatment with hydrocyanic acid results in a significant increase of the mutation frequency in spermatids, if x-radiation is delivered at a high dose-rate, but not after irradiation at a low dose-rate. A greater overall genetic effect of intensity per se has not been observed.Following radiation at both low and high intensities, post-treatment with cyanide increases the frequency of translocations in spermatids. Consequently, it has been inferred that cyanide causes a prolonged opening of chromosome breaks in spermatids and thus favours the formation of translocations.Both this finding and the fact that cyanide post-treatment also raises the mutation rate in a ring-shaped chromosome suggest that the increase in lethal frequency due to post-treatment refers not only to position-effect lethals but also to gene mutations and possibly small deletions.Data relating differential sensitivity in successive broods to oxygen tension are presented. Post-treatment with cyanide is equally effective in rais...
1. ::: ::: The absolute values of the rate constant of the reaction of nitrogen atoms with acetylene were measured in the temperature range 291–523°K. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: The activation energy and pre-exponential factor of the rate constant of the reaction of nitrogen atoms with acetylene were determined. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: Hydrocyanic acid, formed in the interaction of nitrogen atoms and acetylene, is one of the reaction products, in the formation of which one nitrogen atom participates.
The combustion process in oil well in high-energy gas fracture is simulated by manometric bomb test.The composition of the gas produced in the combustion process of the high-energy gas fracture bombs produced by 5 manufacturers is analyzed by infrared spectrum technique.The results show that there is poisonous gas of hydrocyanic acid in the combustion gas special fracture bombs.The mechanism of producing the poisonous gas is analyzed,and the measures for inhibiting it are put forward.
The study aimed to determine the food value of the garba (street food more appreciated in Abidjan). On the whole, 10 samples of dish of garba and its major components (attieke and tuna), were collected in 10 different areas of sale in the neighborhood of Abobo and Yopougon. The results showed that the dish of garba contained 9.82±0.23 % of proteins, 7.27±0.64 % of lipids, 1.73±0.12 % of fibers, 1.57±0.15 % of ash and 30.92±1.44 % of carbohydrates. Its hydrocyanic acid (HCN) content was 0.14±0.02 mg/100g and total energy was 228.39±8.13 kcal/100g. The composition of minerals revealed that the dish of garba is rich in calcium, sodium and potassium. The analysis of the profile in fatty acid of the dish of garba showed that, this dish is low in polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA). The sum of the PUFA contained in the garba was of 7.77±1.21 % of the total fatty acids, including, 0.12±0.25 % of omega-3 and 7.64±1.35 % of omega-6. Finally, the results revealed that the procedure processing of this dish (fish frying), the addition of some ingredients (salt, frying oil), affect negatively food value.
Six lines (IS 1003, IS 3504, IS 3541, IS 6354, CO 27 and CO 28) and four testers (IS 0030, AKSS 5, GSSV 1 and TNS 52) were crossed in line x tester design to produce 24 hybrid combinations. These hybrids along with their ten parents were grown in a randomized block design with three replications. The samples for estimation of hydrocyanic acid content were taken 32 days after sowing. The analysis of variance indicated significant differences for HCN content in all the genotypes. It also clearly shown that, the specific combining ability (SCA) variance for HCN content was higher than general combining ability (GCA) variance indicating the trait is controlled by non additive gene action. The parents IS 3541, CO 27 and IS 0030 were found to be the best ones based on GCA effects and the hybrids IS 1003 x TNS 52, IS 6354 x IS 0030 and IS 3541 x TNS 52 were found to have maximum negative SCA effects for HCN content. Heterosis breeding, recurrent selection and other population improvement procedures were suggested for getting varieties with reduced HCN contents.
In this study, bacteria were isolated from the rhizosphere and inside the roots of canola (Brassica napus L.) plants grown in the field from northern Iran. Firstly, 150 strains (endophytic and rhizospheric isolates) isolated from canola were characterized for plant growth promoting (PGP) traits. Of them, one hundred isolates produced indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), whereas 17 isolates solubilized phosphate, 44 isolates produced siderophore, 34 produced 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate (ACC) deaminase and five produced hydrocyanic acid (HCN). All of the screened isolates with different growth promoting traits were separately inoculated as different mixtures on two rice cultivars under gnotobiotic conditions. A total of 22 endophytic isolates were re-isolated from two rice cultivars and characterized for Plant Growth Promoting (PGP) traits again. All 22 endophytic isolates produced IAA. Secondly, the colonization and growth promoting effects of the IAA producing endophytic strains were compared in inoculated rice plantlets as single-strain inoculants. All of the IAA producing strains were consistently more active in colonizing rice seedlings as compared with other isolates. Therefore, it seems that IAA production may be required for endophytic competence as compared to other PGP traits in rice seedlings. In addition, this study indicates that the selected bacterial isolates based on their IAA producing trait have the potential for PGP and more colonization of rice.
Cassava producers in the region of Marília-São Paulo are integrating their farming activity with beekeeping to diversify their income. The aim of this study was to evaluate the physicochemical and microbiological quality of honey samples produced by Africanized honeybees Apis mellifera from cassava flower in 2008. Analysis were carried out for pH, total soluble solids (TSS), acidity, moisture, reducing and total sugars, apparent sucrose, hydroxymethylfurfural, color, ash, proteins, water insoluble solids, diastasic activity, mineral content, microbiological evaluations, and mineral and hydrocyanic acid (HCN) content. The honey samples showed physicochemical and microbiological characteristics favorable to commercialization, with the exception of apparent sucrose and acidity, which show the need for a narrow focus of attention to the honey maturation degree at the harvest time and more careful monitoring during production and processing. The commercialization of Brazilian cassava honey, still little explored, can be widely spread in the market since the levels of hydrocyanic acid (HCN) showed no consumption risk; in addition the simultaneous production of honey and cassava provides an alternative to family income increase.
Cassava is an important staple crop, but its potential toxicity has led to some health problems in Africa. The potential toxicity comes from endogenous cyanogenic glucosides, mainly linamarin, which may degrade by linamarase to cyanohydrins and subsequently to hydrocyanic acid (HCN). A study into a small outbreak of paralysis and poisoning in a cassava-dominated rural area of Mozambique revealed that the walking disability was konzo, a recently identified disease, and suggested that insufficient processing of the bitter cassava roots was a factor in its causation. The usual processing stages to turn roots into flour, sun-drying and heapfermentation, were studied in Uganda and The Netherlands. For evaluation of initial and resulting levels of the cyanogenic compounds, an analytical assay was tested and improved. Mechanisms of cyanogen removal from cassava by sun- drying and heap-fermentation were elucidated, to allow for its optimization. Sun-drying removed cyanogens insufficiently from roots with high initial levels. Dynamics of cyanogen levels are described. Continuing drying below moisture levels of 15% did not diminish linamarin levels further, but it was useful for further removal of the cyanohydrins formed. The dehydration rate influenced linamarin breakdown negatively. Reducing the size of the pieces to speed up drying, as done during the konzo outbreak, therefore resulted in higher residual linamarin levels. Linamarin breakdown can be enhanced by reducing the initial dehydration rate. Microbial contamination may need to be controlled to prevent the formation of microbial toxins. In Uganda and Mozambique certain communities promote fungal growth by heaping and covering the peeled roots. Their aim is to improve the palatability and reduce the toxicity. Cyanogen removal by this solid-substrate fermentation appeared more effective than by sun-drying alone, but several samples of this flour from rural households still had undesirably high levels of cyanogens. Screening of 30 flour samples for mycotoxins was negative, but the formation of mycotoxins cannot be excluded. The humid incubation of cassava extends the time of physiological cell-wall degradation, which allows for linamarase-linamarin interaction. The microflora had an additional positive effect on cyanogen removal by enhancing the cell-wall degradation. The linamarase activity shown by several microorganisms was of lesser importance. The food grade fungi Neurospora sitophila and Rhizopus oryzae were the most effective in cyanogen removal. Optimization of processing conditions, including the use of starter cultures, is recommended for ensuring safe products.
The effect of fermentation on the nutrient status and on some toxic components of Icacinia manni was investigated. Chemical analysis of both unfermented and fermented products revealed an increase in protein, ash and fibre content while the lipid and carbohydrate content showed a decrease. The results indicated that fermentation resulted in protein enrichment of the fermented Icacinia manni mash. Fermentation was also observed to cause a marked decrease in the level of some toxic components (oxalic acid, phytic acid and hydrocyanic acid) of the product. The possibility of incorporating Icacinia manni among the edible starchy plant tubers is discussed.
Achieving the desired selective transformations of the very stable CO2 into useful chemicals is quite important for the development of economically and environmentally sustainable synthetic methods. Herein, mass spectrometric experiments and quantum-chemical calculations have identified that ScNH+ reacts quite efficiently with CO2 under thermal collision conditions to exclusively yield ScO+ and isocyanic acid (HNCO). This is a novel reaction type in CO2 activation reactions mediated by gas-phase ions. In this reaction, the C═N double bond has also been formed for the first time in the gas phase. The mechanism of “migratory insertion” is proposed. Coupled with the previously reported reaction of Sc+ with NH3, HNCO can be synthesized under mild conditions from NH3 and CO2 in quite simple reactions. The mechanistic information gained in this gas-phase model reaction can offer fundamental insights relevant to corresponding processes and further guide on how to design brand new catalysts.
In this communication, the authors report the first observation of the formation of isocyanic acid, HNCO, from the pyrolysis of coals and discuss possible implications of this observation for the release and subsequent fate of volatile N species during coal pyrolysis and combustion
1Introduction Sulfonyl hydrazide and sulfonyl semicarbazide derivatives exhibit variety of bactriostatic activity and also are important compounds as blowing agents in cellular rubber and plastics[1]. Different methods for the preparation of these compounds are reported for example, sulfonyl semicarbazides are prepared by reaction of a sulfonyl hydrazides with urea or cyanic acid[2], reaction of sulfinic acid salt with azodicarbonamide in water[3],and reaction of sulfonyl chloride and semicarbazide[4]. In lots of these methods the yields are not high, the solvents are toxic (pyridine)[5] and also the starting materials are not commericaly available[6]. We now report a modified and convenient procedure for the preparation of these compounds under solvent-free condition.
1. An analysis of the physiological effects of cyanogen chloride is given. These effects closely resemble those of hydrocyanic acid: in addition there is a local effect on the respiratory passages, resulting in broncho-constriction and ultimately in damage, when the vapour is inhaled. ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. Blood, or red corpuscles, rapidly converts cyanogen chloride into hydrocyanic acid. Serum also rapidly destroys cyanogen chloride, but without formation of hydrocyanic acid. ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. Conversion of CNCI into HCN by blood is not quantitative. In vitro the per cent. conversion is about 30: for isolated red cells it may be more, and it may be more in vivo ::: ::: ::: ::: 4. When CNCI is inhaled, HCN can be immediately identified in the blood, and in amount comparable with that detectable when comparably toxic concentrations of HCN are breathed. ::: ::: ::: ::: 5. It is concluded that the lethal effects of CNCI are due to the formation of HCN, and that other actions are subsidiary. ::: ::: ::: ::: 6. Evidence is given that both HCN and CNCI are ultimately converted into HCNS in the body. ::: ::: ::: ::: We wish to thank the Ministry of Supply for providing the facilities for carrying out this investigation, and for giving permission for its publication.
ABSTRACT Flaxseed cake (FSC) is a potential alternative feed source in poultry. However, cyanogenetic glycosides limit its widespread use in feed. In this study, we optimized the parameters of fermentation by Aspergillus niger and Candida utilis and compared the growth performance, serum lipid parameters, and organ indexes of Cherry Valley duckling feed with unfermented FSC (UFSC) or fermented FSC (FFSC). A total of 420 one-day-old male Cherry Valley ducklings were randomly assigned into a 1 plus 2 × 3 factorial design including 2 different FSC resources (UFSC and FFSC) at 3 levels (50, 100, or 150g/kg) for 3 wk. Each treatment group included 6 pens with 10 ducklings per pen. The hydrocyanic acid (HCN) level was reduced under the following conditions: 1:0.8 FSC:water (w:v), inoculum ratio of 1 mL:1mL, 30°C, and 60h. FFSC had higher crude protein (CP) and calcium (Ca) levels and lower HCN levels compared with UFSC (P 0.05). Dietary FSC supplementation decreased triglyceride (TG) (P
Ureido-modified MQ silicone resin (DIPUPES-MQ) was prepared by the hydrolytic condensation of tetraethoxysilane (TEOS), (γ-diisopropylureidopropyl) triethoxysilane (DIPUPES), hexamethyldisiloxane and divinyltetramethyldisiloxane. Subsequently, DIPUPES-MQ was employed to improve the resistance to tracking and erosion of addition-cure liquid silicone rubber (ALSR), and it showed that DIPUPES-MQ could significantly enhance the tracking and erosion resistance as well as the mechanical properties of the ALSR. When the content of DIPUPES-MQ was 3.75 phr, all the test samples passed the inclined plane tracking and erosion (IP) test at 4.5 kV. The thermogravimetry (TG), thermogravimetry-Fourier transform infrared spectrometry (TG-FTIR) and FTIR results showed that the striking enhancement in the tracking and erosion resistance of the ALSR was probably ascribed to the decomposition of the ureido groups. In the pyrolysis process, the ureido groups of DIPUPES-MQ could generate isocyanic acid to hinder the “unzipping” depolymerization through reacting with Si-OH groups, so that the amount of cyclic dimethylsiloxanes inducing intense and continuous dry-band arcs was decreased.
The spectrum of isocyanic acid has been examined in the photographic infra‐red using a 21‐ft. grating spectrograph and path lengths up to 500 m. The rotational structure of several bands has been analyzed and the energy levels and moments of inertia determined. With their help the coarse rotational structure of two of the fundamentals has also been analyzed. The molecular parameters fitting best our data and published electron diffraction results for the C–N and C–O bond distances are: r(H–N)=1.000A, ≰ H–N–C=125.5°.
It was further proposed that cyanate (cyanic acid), formed as a hypothetical reaction product of monooxygenation, was further metabolized by an enzyme resembling cyanase (EC 3.5.5.3), but further substantiation of this proposal has not proved possible (2, 10). Since unequivocal proof for either of these mechanisms of cyanide transformation by P. fluo-
Organocatalysis is a field of organic chemistry in constant growing and several organocatalysts have been developed for different organic reactions. The first mention date to back the second decade of 20 th century from the Bredig and Fiske's report 1 using some alkaloids as catalysts in the addition reaction of hydrocyanic acid to benzaldehyde. Organocatalytic methods has been currently widely applied in the synthesis of various bioactive compounds including large-scale intermediates in the pharmaceutical industry. 2 The main advantage is due to avoiding contamination risk by metals. 3 In addition, the organocatalysts are generally cheap, stable in atmospheric conditions, allow reproducible results and require simple reaction conditions. 4 Sulfamic acid (SA, H 2 NSO 3 H) has emerged as a substitute for conventional Bronsted and Lewis acid catalysts in organic synthesis. 5 It is a relatively stable, white crystalline and odorless solid, non-volatile, non-hygroscopic, non-corrosive, and inexpensive. 6 In addition, it is a heterogeneous catalyst, and can be recovered by simple filtration and is considered an efficient green catalyst. 7, 8 It has been used in acid catalyzed reactions, for functional group protections 8 and deprotections, 9 and some important organic transformations, such as the Beckmann rearrangement, 10 Michael addition, 11 imino Diels-Alder, 12 Pechmann reaction, 13 esterifications, 14 transesterification, 15 Hantzsch reaction 16 and Biginelli condensations. 17 According to a previous study, 18 the pK a of SA in water is 1.19. As would be expected, the aliphatic derivatives of SA are weaker acids than SA itself. For example: the pK a value for cyclohexylsulfamic acid was found to be 1.90. 19 Dupont et al. 20 synthesized recently different N-alkylated sulfamic acid (NSA) as acidic metal extractants (pK a ca. 2). Other species such as N-alkylated sulfamic acid ionic liquids ([R 2 NH-SO 3 H][Tf 2 N]) were presented as a new and safe to handle class of super acids (pK a value < -7). 20 The N-alkylated sulfamic acid derivatives showed a good miscibility in various organic solvents such as methanol, ethanol and acetone. This fact turns its use in organic media compatible and interesting to apply as a promoter in organic reactions.
The main aspects concerning the formation of complexes between pharmaceutical substances and various ligands are supported by several observations. According to the biological, physiological, and pathophysiological role of metal ions and ligands with pharmacological effect, metal ions present a great importance in carrying out the vital functions of living organisms acting as complexes or chelates and also in the analysis and control methods of drug substances by forming complexes that can be detected by spectral techniques. The use of ligands, chelating agents, or complexes in medicine and biology concerns several purposes such as antidotes in poisoning with metal ions or hydrocyanic acid or cyanides; introduction in the living organisms of some essential metal ions found to be deficient; depriving bacteria, viruses, or microbial enzyme systems of micronutrients essential for their work; or providing toxic metals for the pathogenic agents [2] .
Strikingly rapid toxic symptoms of organic thiocyanates were repeatedly observed in various kinds of animals by Traubmann (1930)(1), von Oettingen et al. (1936)(2), Cameron et al. (1939)(3), Ohashi and Kimizuka (1947)(4), though not confirmed by Moriki (1936)(5). Such a violent action as above, however, can not be expected in regard to inorganic thiocyanates, such as KSCN, clinically available as a sedative or a blood pressure depressant.The SCN radical has a close similarity in its chemical property to halogens, which may be named “pseudohalogen”. Then, Traubmann naturally presupposed an ethyl chloride C2H5Cl-like narcotic action as a pharmacological property of alkyl thiocyanates, i.e. methyl thiocyanate CH3SCN, ethyl thiocyanate C2H5SCN, or propyl thiocyanate C3H7SCN. But it was found that the animals poisoned either by these alkyl thiocyanates or by aromatic thiocyanates (phenyl thiocyanate C6H5SCN and aniline thiocyanate NH2C6H4SCN) caused respiratory excitement and convulsions. Thus he came to a postulation for the toxic particularity of organic thiocyanates.Von Oettingen and others noticed the following phenomena: hyperemia, hemorrhage and edema in internal organs, when animals succumbed to the acute poisoning by lower alkyl thiocyanates, respiratory excitement and a rise in blood pressure when methyl or ethyl thiocyanate was administered subcutaneously; appearance of a AgNO3-consuming substance in vitro when these thiocyanates were placed for 48 hours with pieces of liver. These observations gave the impression that hydrocyanic acid might be liberated from methyl and ethyl thiocyanates in living animals.In order to scrutinize more carefully the above-mentioned assumption, the present study was designed with six compounds of organic thiocyanates* as listed in Table 1.
Triazines is the chemical species of six-membered heterocyclic ring compounds with three nitrogens replacing carbon-hydrogen units in the benzene ring structure. The names of the three isomers indicate which of the carbon-hydrogen units on the benzene ring position of the molecule have been replaced by nitrogens, called 1,2,3-triazine, 1,2,4-triazine and 1,3,5-triazine respectively. Symmetrical 1,3,5-triazine is the most common. Triazines are prepared from cyanic acid amide by trimerization (1,3,5-triazine). Pyridine is the aromatic nitrogen heterocyclic compound having only one nitrogen and diazines are with two nitrogen atoms, triazines having three nitrogen atoms on the benzene ring system. Triazines are weak bases. Triazines have much weaker resonance energy than benzene, so nuceophilic substitution is preferred than electrophilic substitution. 1,3,5-Triazine or s-triazine moiety, represents an 1-5 interesting class of compounds possessing a wide spectrum of biological activities such as antimalarial, antibacterial, antimycobacterial, antifungal, herbicidal, anticancer, antitumoral and antiviral etc.
Infrared spectroscopy of isocyanic acid generated insitu by the thermal decomposition of nitromethane provides an efficient and easy method to probe the basic strength of the surface of oxides. The frequencies of the adsorbed isocyanate species are directly correlated with the heats of adsorption of carbon dioxide determined by microcalorimetry.
The potential energy surface (PES) of thionylimide has been searched using ab initio MO and density functional calculations. The electronic structures of the isomers of HNSO have been studied using the HF/6-31+G*, MP2(full)/6-31+G*, and B3LYP/6-31+G* levels. Final energies of these molecules have been calculated at the high-accuracy G2 and CBS-Q levels. The probable pathways of isomerization of thionylimide to its isomers (e.g., thiocyanic acid, HONS, nitrosothiols) have been explored by studying the three- or four-membered transition states. This study identified total eight possible isomers (1–8) of HNSO, of which four (1–4) have already been realized experimentally. Of the remaining four (5–8), at least two (5, 7) can be generated experimentally. © 2005 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Int J Quantum Chem, 2006
Abstract Vehicles are considered to be an important source of ammonia (NH 3 ) and isocyanic acid (HNCO). HNCO and NH 3 have been shown to be toxic compounds. Moreover, NH 3 is also a precursor in the formation of atmospheric secondary aerosols. For that reason, real-time vehicular emissions from a series of Euro 5 and Euro 6 light-duty vehicles, including spark ignition (gasoline and flex-fuel), compression ignition (diesel) and a plug-in electric hybrid, were investigated at 23 and −7 °C over the new World harmonized Light-duty vehicle Test Cycle (WLTC) in the Vehicle Emission Laboratory at the European Commission Joint Research Centre Ispra, Italy. The median HNCO emissions obtained for the studied fleet over the WLTC were 1.4 mg km −1 at 23 °C and 6 mg km −1 at −7 °C. The fleet median NH 3 emission factors were 10 mg km −1 and 21 mg km −1 at 23 and −7 °C, respectively. The obtained results show that even though three-way catalyst (TWC), selective catalytic reduction (SCR), and NOx storage catalyst (NSC) are effective systems to reduce NOx vehicular emissions, they also lead to considerable emissions of the byproducts NH 3 and/or HNCO. It is also shown that diesel light-duty vehicles equipped with SCR can present NH 3 emission factors as high as gasoline light-duty vehicles at both, 23 and −7 °C over the WLTC. Therefore, with the introduction in the market of this DeNOx technology, vehicular NH 3 emissions will increase further.
Publisher Summary This chapter discusses the Fischer cyanohydrin synthesis and configurations of higher-carbon sugars and alcohol. The synthesis of α-hydroxy acids from the carbonyl compounds of the cyanohydrin is an early discovery in organic chemistry. Fischer discovered that the lactones of the acids of the sugar group can be reduced by sodium amalgam to yield the corresponding carbonyl compound, an aldose. Fischer and Passmore discovered that the phenylhydrazides of the aldonic acids crystallize well, a development that proved of fundamental importance for the isolation and purification of such acids. The theory predicts that two diastereoisomers result from the addition of hydrocyanic acid to a reducing sugar.
The reaction of mixtures of NO, CO, and H2over Pt/SiO2in combination with Al2O3has been investigated with on-line Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy as the principal analytical method. With Pt/SiO2alone isocyanic acid (HNCO) can be observed directly as a substantial product. It comprises up to 45% of the CO converted in the temperature range from 200 to 300°C. The yield is maximized when the amounts of H2and CO in the input stream are equal. No HNCO can be observed in experiments in which Al2O3is placed downstream of the Pt/SiO2or with a Pt/Al2O3catalyst. Hydrolysis to NH3and CO2is then complete. For this reason it is unlikely that HNCO will escape a catalytic converter in vehicle use but it may be a significant intermediate during the warm-up phase. The formation of HNCO can be rationalized as resulting from the hydrogenation of NCO groups present in small concentrations on the Pt surface under conditions of high CO coverage. The yield of HNCO falls steeply above 300°C when the CO coverage is falling. It is unclear if hydrolysis of HNCO occurs by direct reaction of molecular HNCO on the Al2O3surface or proceeds via the ubiquitious support-bound isocyanate species which have been observed in many previous studies. Previous observations of isocyanate formation in hydrogen-free systems can be rationalized as arising from HNCO formation by reverse spillover of hydrogen from OH groups on the support to generate HNCO on the platinum metal. This is then transported back to the support through the gas phase to form NCO groups.
The invention discloses a ganoderma lucidum-ginkgo functional food and a preparation method thereof, and the process relates to the field of biological engineering technology. With ginkgo as main raw material and by adopting strain liquid deep culture and solid fermentation technologies, the ganoderma lucidum-ginkgo functional food is obtained. The preparation method comprises the steps: cutting ginkgo into small lumps with the size of 3-5 mm, inoculating with a 5-30% ganoderma lucidum seed liquid after sterilization, carrying out sealed fermentation with a preservative film, and after drying and smashing the fermentation product, thus obtaining the ganoderma lucidum-ginkgo functional food. The product contains 0.3-2 mg/g of total flavonoids, 0.2-1.5 mg/g of ginkgolides, 0.8-3.9 mg/g of ganoderma trierponoides, 0.9-8 mg/g of proteins, less than 0.5% of soluble sugar, 1-15 mg/g of polysaccharide, less than 5 [mu]g/g of ginkgolic acid, and less than 0.1 [mu]g/g of hydrocyanic acid. Because of containing the flavonoid compounds, terpenoids, ganoderma triterpenes and other active ingredients, the product has the efficacies of inhibiting tumor cell reproduction and reducing oxidative stress in a body.
Several experiments were conducted to determine the effects of aqueous extracts of Tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.), White tope (Cardaria draba L.) and Wild Mustard (Sinapis arvensis L.) at 0, 4, 5 and 6% of raw extracts on control of Khapra(Trogoderma granarium) in the stored wheat grains. Data was registered after 24, 48, 72 and 96 hours of plant extract applications and the results revealed that all plant extract concentrations were effective against adults of Khapra but the effects decreased after 48 hours of application of extracts. Interactions between 6% of extracts and incubation time one (24 hours) registered the highest effects against adult insects. Larva stage was resistant more than adults against plant extracts. White Top extracts were effective against the larva stage more than the other two plant extracts. insect strains, (9)there is, therefore, an urgent need to develop environment friendly alternatives with the potentials to replace the highly toxic chemicals. Throughout the world the new trend is towards the use of botanical having insecticidal properties. Some plant extracts are highly effective and safe for human beings and the environment, suitable and inexpensive for protection of stored grains. The toxicity of plant extracts has been checked against a number of stored product insects.The plant kingdom can be used as a rich source of a variety of chemicals with the potential for development as successful pest control agents (10), (11). Secondary compounds from plants include alkaloids, terpenoids, phenolics, flavonoid, and other chemicals can affect insects in several ways. They may disrupt major metabolic pathways and cause rapid death, act as attractants, deterrents, and antifeedants or modify ovipositor (12) Tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.) is an economic plant, while White tope (Cardaria draba L.) and Wild Mustard (Sinapis arvensis L.) are wild plants distributed widely throughout the region,containing divers chemical substances, with biological activity against natural enemies such as fungi, bacteria, insects and herbivorous. Nicotine and nor-nicotine areorganic compounds naturally produced by tobacco plants used as insecticide. Wild mustard produces essential oils,glycosides and p-hydroxybenzylisothiocyanate(13), (14). White tope produce essential oils, sulphur compound and hydrocyanic acid and the plant stated as fish poison (15).Few years ago,researches pointed out thata lot of plant speciesin the region can be used as biopesticidesto control bacteria; fungi and may be insects (16),(17), (18). The present study aimed to determine the effects of Tobacco,White tope and Wild Mustard extracts at different concentrations on the control of Khapra.
Bioactive compounds in plants, being secondary metabolites are important phyto-chemicals, that form the basis of modern pharmacology and medical treatment because it has natural beneficial compounds such as in nutraceuticals, micronutrients e.t.c. Neglected legumes like Bambara groundnut (Vigna subterranea (L.) Verdc.) can serve as a high nutrient pulse and also as food supplements. However, despite the fact that Bambara groundnut contains these beneficial bioactive compounds, it also has some compounds, which on the other hand do exists as acute poisons and as contaminants in food, thus implying risks of adverse effects in animals and man. However, the ingested dosage of bioactive plant compounds is often a determinant for a decision as to whether the effect will be beneficial or adverse. Here, the work quantified and reported certain plant bioactive compounds and anti – nutrients in Bambara groundnut (Vigna subterranea (L.) Verdc.). The results of some bioactive compounds analysed in this pulse showed that the selected African accession had the highest amount of ascorbic acid of 29.90 mg / 100g in TVSu – 1822, while the least obtained, 11.24 mg / 100g was for TVSu – 1229. Oxalic acid was highest (0.0049 g/g) in TVSu – 1205, and the lowest (0.004 g/g) in TVSu – 1824. The amount of quantifiable cyanogenic glycosides (CNP) in form of hydrocyanic acid (HCN) was highest in TVSu – 1229 with 0.34 mg / 100g, and the least in accessions TVSu – 1824, TVSu – 553, TVSu – 1727 and TVSu – 922 with 0.05 mg / g. Also, the highest amount of trypsin inhibitors of 18.97 mg / g was found in TVSu – 174, while the least amount of 0.07 mg / g was found in TVSu – 1727.
The aim of this work was to investigate the catalysis of boron phosphate (BP) on the thermal stability and char forming in flame-retardant polyurethane–polyisocyanurate foams (FPUR–PIR) with dimethylmethylphosphonate (DMMP) and tris(2-chloropropyl) phosphate (TCPP). The flame-retardant performance and thermal stability of FPUR–PIR were evaluated by cone calorimetry (CONE), thermogravimetric analysis (TG) and microscale combustion calorimetry (MCC). Gas-phase products of FPUR–PIR during the thermal decomposition were investigated via thermogravimetric analyzer coupled with FTIR and mass spectrometry (TG–FTIR–MS). Elemental composition and content of the charred layer in detail were analyzed by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). It was observed that the incorporation of 3 mass% BP in FPUR–PIR decreases the heat release rate, total smoke released and CO production. Meanwhile, the addition of 3 mass% BP advances the release of gaseous products and lower the production of smoke and toxic products like –NCO compounds, PO* and cyanic acid in the gas phase. It can accelerate the dehydration of hydroxyl compounds and promote the char formation of –NCO compounds. This can improve the thermal and oxidation resistance of condensed phase. The catalytic behavior of the dehydration and char formation of BP in the thermal degradation of FPUR–PIR is attributed to Bronsted and Lewis acidic sites on BP.
The utility model discloses a device for preparing hydrocyanic acid through oxygen enrichment, belonging to the technical field of preparation of hydrocyanic acid through oxygen enrichment. The device for preparing hydrocyanic acid through oxygen enrichment comprises a liquid ammonia storage tank, an evaporator, a heater, a buffer tank, an ammonia activated carbon adsorption tank, a bag ammonia filter, a mixer, a preheater, a quaternary gas mixer, a flame arrester and a hydrocyanic acid reactor, which are connected in sequence, wherein the mixer is also connected with a bag natural gas filter; the bag natural gas filter is connected with a natural gas activated carbon adsorption tank; the preheater is connected with a bag air filter; the bag air filter is connected with a pressure swing adsorber; and the quaternary gas mixer is also connected with a steam generator. The device has simple structure, is easy to operate, improves the production capacity and reduces the labor and production cost.
Even in ancient times the existence of an open pathway between the ear and the respiratory tract was assumed. Up to the middle ages, however, Aristotle's idea that the air in the ear is an innate part of the body prevailed. The first anatomical description of the tube was given by Eustachius (1563). He still adhered to the concept of "innate air" and regarded the tube only as a pathway for draining pathological matter from the tympanic cavity. Duverney (1683) realized that an important function of the tube was replacing and adjusting the pressure of the air in the tympanic cavity. He thought that the tube is permanently open, thus offering a vent to the air, when the tympanic membrane is moving inwards and outwards. Valsalva (1704) discovered a muscle for opening the tube, and he presumed that in hearing this muscle would come into action. He described the maneuver that is named after him as a method to expel pus from the tympanic cavity into the external auditory canal. E.G. Guyot, a postmaster in Versailles, was the first to try catheterization of his own Eustachian tube via the mouth. Cleland (1741) inserted the catheter via the nose, and Wathen (1756) after studies on corpses described in detail the technique how to carry out this procedure. The therapeutic application of Eustachian catheterization as practiced by physicians such as Itard (1821) centered around irrigation with water and medications as well as inflation of various fumes. Deleau (1836) later advocated a douche of pure air and, in analogy to the auscultation of the lung, described the different noises that could be perceived during this procedure. Numerous models of pumps were constructed for this air douche, which became one of the most widely used therapeutical means in otology. There were also lethal incidents caused by cutaneous emphysemata. Toynbee realized that at rest the tube is closed and that there is a constant absorption of air in the tympanic cavity. The tube would be opened only by the act of swallowing and air would then be allowed to enter to equalize pressure. He believed that the maneuver he described, namely swallowing while the nostrils are closed, would produce a positive pressure in the tympanic cavity. He died when he applied these maneuvers in order to press fumes of chloroform or cyanic acid into his ears to treat his tinnitus. Politzer could demonstrate that after Toynbee's maneuver the middle ear is left with a negative pressure, and consequently, in 1861-63, he devised his own method for actively inflating the middle ear. The history of these events is described in detail and illustrated by a number of figures and anecdotal episodes.
Hydroxynitrile lyases from sweet almond (E.C. 4.1.2.10) and from sorghum bicolor (E.C. 4.1.2.11) have been purified to homogeneity by ion-exchange chromatography. These enzymes catalyse the decomposition of α-hydroxynitriles to aldehydes and hydrocyanic acid (HCN) and show great promise for synthetic applications in the reverse reaction: the stereospecific addition of HCN to aldehydes to form enantio-pure α-hydroxynitriles. ::: ::: ::: ::: Physical and kinetic characteristics of the two dominating isoenzymes in each source were compared and revealed appreciable species-specific differences. The differences in substrate specificity between iso forms within one species, were, however, found to be small. ::: ::: ::: ::: The native molecular weight for the sorghum lyase was found to be 95 kDa. This is in contrast with an earlier reported value of 180 kDa. From the kinetic parameters Km and Kmax, a specificity constant was calculated, which can be used to predict the potential application of oxynitrilase as a biocatalyst for specific synthetic purposes.
The influence of maturation of fruit spirits (plum and black chokeberry) in the presence of oak shavings on the content changes in the major volatile compounds and ethyl carbamate as well as its precursor cyanic acid was tested. The effect of ethanol concentration in distillates and the temperature of aging were determined. The differences in ethanol content in fruit spirits had no significant effect on the dynamics of the amount changes of methanol and fermentation by-products as well as cyanic acid. A significant correlation between ethanol content in fruit spirits and ethyl carbamate level (plum spirits r = 0.9608, aronia spirits r = 0.9978) after 9 weeks of maturation was determined. The higher changes in the major volatile compounds as well as ethyl carbamate were observed during aging of spirits at 40 °C than at 20 °C.
Abstract The formation of nitrous oxide during the reaction of a mixture of CO, NO, C 3 H 6 , C 3 H 8 , H 2 and O 2 over supported rhodium, platinum and palladium catalysts has been investigated under near-stoichiometric conditions. Rhodium gives the highest amount of N 2 O with a peak selectivity near 70% at 250°C followed by a steady decline to low levels by 400°C. With Pt N 2 O is seen in a narrow region just above 300°C and is removed at higher temperatures during oxidation of propane. Ammonia, probably produced via isocyanic acid, is the chief nitrogen-containing product of the reaction over Pt/Al 2 O 3 below 300°C, but this route is much reduced when CeO 2 /Al 2 O 3 is the support. Palladium-containing catalysts give rise to N 2 O in two regimes. It arises below 200°C by the reaction of NO with H 2 and above 300°C by another process which unlike Rh and Pt, persists through to 500°C. The behaviour of a trimetal catalyst containing Pd, Pt and Rh can be interpreted as a composite of that of the individual metals. Pt/Rh-containing catalytic converters recovered from vehicles show pronounced differences in N 2 O production which correlate with a reduced ability to remove propane. The most probable cause of such changes is sintering of the platinum component as a result of exposure to high temperature. This may be the origin of the increased N 2 O production seen in driving cycle tests with high mileage vehicles.
The production processes of iminodiacetic acid are reviewed,including hydrocyanic acid method,diethanolamine method,hydrolysis method of iminodiacetonitrile,chloroacetic acid ammoniation,chloroacetic acid-glycine method.The application of iminodiacetic acid in the production of herbicides glyphosate is introduced.
The potentiometric titration of a sample of 0.01 N K3Fe(CN)6 with aqueous HCl shows no evidence of protonation; the curve coincides with that obtained in the titration of a blank solution containing pure water, this fact indicating that the three ionization constants of ferricyanic acid, H3Fe(CN)6, are higher than 0.1 (2,3). On the other hand, the titration curves of a sample of 0.01 M H3Fe(CN)6 with NaOH, obtained by potentiometric and conductimetric techniques, are identical to those achieved titrating 0.03 M HC1. Thus the three constants must be quite high (4). None of the three pK values was found in the literature; however, to be able to explain the effect of acidity on the rate constant, several contributions on the oxidation of organic substrates by femcyanide in acid media (5-1 1) suggest that the first protonation occurs in the range 0.1-3.8 M HC104.
The potentiometric titration of a sample of 0.01 N K3Fe(CN)6 with aqueous HCl shows no evidence of protonation; the curve coincides with that obtained in the titration of a blank solution containing pure water, this fact indicating that the three ionization constants of ferricyanic acid, H3Fe(CN)6, are higher than 0.1 (2, 3) . On the other hand, the titration curves of a sample of 0.01 M H3Fe(CN)6 with NaOH, obtained by potentiometric and conductimetric techniques, are identical to those achieved titrating 0.03 M HC1. Thus the three constants must be quite high (4) . None of the three pK values was found in the literature; however, to be able to explain the effect of acidity on the rate constant, several contributions on the oxidation of organic substrates by femcyanide in acid media (5-1 1) suggest that the first protonation occurs in the range 0.1-3.8 M HC104.
Protein carbamylation refers to a nonenzymatic modification, which consists in the binding of isocyanic acid on protein functional groups. This reaction is responsible for the alteration in structural and functional properties of proteins, which participate in their molecular aging. Protein molecular aging is now considered a molecular substratum for the development of chronic and inflammatory diseases, including atherosclerosis, chronic kidney disease, or rheumatoid arthritis. As a consequence, carbamylation-derived products have been proposed as interesting biomarkers in various pathological contexts and appropriate analytical methods have been developed for their quantification in biological fluids. The purpose of this review is (i) to describe the biochemical bases of the carbamylation reaction, (ii) to explain how it contributes to protein molecular aging, (iii) to provide evidence of its involvement in aging and chronic diseases, and (iv) to list the available biomarkers of carbamylation process and the related analytical methods.
A process for producing creatine, creatine monohydrate or guanidinoacetic acid is proposed, wherein firstly N-methylethanolamine or ethanolamine is catalytically dehydrogenated in each case in alkaline solution and the sarcosinate or glycinate solutions that are obtained in this manner are finally reacted under acidic conditions with a guanylating agent such as for example O-alkylisourea or cyanamide. In this manner products are obtained in high yields and very good purity where in contrast to the prior art no traces whatsoever of hydrocyanic acid, formaldehyde, chloroacetic acid or ammonia are present. The formation of the toxicologically critical dihydrotriazine is also avoided.
Thermo-oxidative degradation of rubber plastic sponge in air was studied by thermogravimetric analysis combined with Fourier transform infrared spectrometry(TGA-FTIR).The weight loss of rubber plastic sponge at 3different heating rates was investigated and the evolved gases were analyzed.The rubber plastic sponge showed two stages of weight loss.The weight loss rates and the temperature of maximum weight loss rates increased with the increasing of heating rate.The first stage corresponded to the thermo-oxidative degradation of the functional groups of NBR and PVC,and the evolved gases were cyanic acid and HCl.The second stage corresponded to thermo-oxidative degradation of the carbon chains,and the evolved gas was mainly CO2.
The molecular structure, vibrational spectra and photochemistry of 5-methylhydantoin (C4H6N2O2; 5-MH) were studied by matrix isolation infrared spectroscopy and theoretical calculations at the DFT(B3LYP)/6-311++G(d,p) theory level. The natural bond orbital (NBO) analysis approach was used to study in detail the electronic structure of the minimum energy structure of 5-MH, namely the specific characteristics of the σ and π electronic systems of the molecule and the stabilizing orbital interactions. UV irradiation of 5-MH isolated in argon matrix resulted in its photofragmentation through a single photochemical pathway, yielding isocyanic acid, ethanimine, and carbon monoxide, thus following a pattern already observed before for the parent hydantoin and 1-methylhydantoin molecules. The investigation of the thermal properties of 5-MH was undertaken by differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), polarized light thermal microscopy (PLTM) and Raman spectroscopy. Four different polymorphs of 5-MH were identified. The crystal structure of one of the polymorphs, for which it was possible to grow up suitable crystals, was determined by X-ray diffraction (XRD). Two of the additional polymorphs were characterized by powder XRD, which confirmed the molecules pack in different crystallographic arrangements.
An investigation was carried out with 12 parents and their 35 hybrids (L x T mating design) of sorghum to asses association of fodder yield components and their direct and indirect effects on green fodder yield per plant. Results of correlation analysis indicated that the green fodder yield per plant was found to be significantly and positively correlated with plant height, number of tillers, leaf length, leaf breadth, stem diameter, hydrocyanic acid and crude fibre. Days to 50 per cent flowering, crude protein, and in vitro dry matter digestibility showed a negative association with green fodder yield per plant. Path analysis showed that plant height contributed high direct effect to green fodder yield per plant followed by leaf breadth (Moderate) and leaf length (Moderate). Stem diameter and in vitro dry matter digestibility also exerted positive direct effect on green fodder yield. Thus, the present study indicated that the plant height, leaf length, leaf breadth and stem diameter are important characters in deciding the green fodder yield per plant. Hence these characters may be considered as selection indices in sorghum breeding programme.
Trace amounts of free cyanide in Prussian blue are hydrolysed into hydrocyanic acid. The latter is captured by a lithium picrate solution contained in a test-tube, which is placed in the reaction vessel. The colour change due to the resulting lithium isopurpurate is measured spectrophotometrically at 500 nm. This method can detect cyanide down to a level of 2.5 µg in 100 mg of Prussian blue and is accurate and reproducible.
The invention relates to a process for the decolourisation of alkali metal and alkaline earth metal cyanide solutions for the purposes of separating polymeric hydrocyanic acid. The decolourisation is carried out by contacting the solution with an activated charcoal. Loaded activated charcoal is regenerated by washing and a thermal treatment at 250 DEG C to 500 DEG C in the presence of air or an oxidising gas.
The anti-nutrient contents of the pulp, seeds and rind of Citrulluslanatus were evaluated. The study was carried out on both fresh and dried samples. Results of the investigation revealed that the anti-nutritional components such as saponin, alkaloid, hydrocyanic acid, phenols, oxalate, tannins, phytates were detected in all the samples but at a varying tolerable concentration. However, other anti-nutrient constituents were in small insignificant amount in all the parts of the fruit investigated. Although there were significant difference (p< 0.05) in the anti-nutrient compounds in the different parts of the fruit, seeds and rind which are the parts always discarded on the basis of acclaim toxicity, these can contribute immensely to recommended daily allowance and maintenance of good nutritional status and hence good health for both man and animals.
Describes how the presence of hydrocyanic acid in plants can poison livestock, how to prevent poisoning, and how to treat animals which have been poisoned.
We use femtosecond infrared spectroscopy to study the aqueous protonation dynamics of cyanate, OCN−, using a photoacid, 2-naphthol-6,8-disulfonate (2N-6,8S) excited by a 60-fs pulse tuned at 336 nm. The transient response in the spectral range of the cyano-stretching vibrational marker modes of cyanic acid, HOCN, and isocyanic acid, HNCO, reveals how much of both reaction products are formed at early delay times, and whether the on-contact reactive complex between 2N-6,8S and OCN− has a well-defined structure. Using the Szabo-Collins-Kimball approach to describe bimolecular reaction dynamics subject to the Debye-von Smoluchowski diffusional motions, an on-contact proton transfer reaction rate is derived that follows the correlation between free energy and reaction rates found for a large class of aqueous proton transfer of photoacid dissociation and photoacid-base neutralization reactions.
1,3,5-Trimethylbiuret and 1,3-dimethylurea react with chloroform at temperatures above 200 °C to produce 1,3,5-trimethyl-1,3,5-triazinane-2,4-dione (4), 1,3-dimethyl-1,3,5-triazinane-2,4,6-trione (5), and 1,3,5-trimethyl-1,3,5-triazinane-2,4,6-trione [methyl isocyanate (MIC) trimer](3), besides minor quantities of other by-products, via trimerization reactions involving MIC, isocyanic acid, and N- methylenemethylamine.
PURPOSE: To simply determine the subject subtypes of many specimens by synthesizing cDNA from the nucleic acid of the specimens, multiplying the cDNA with a DNA polymerase and a primer set containing an oligo DNA specific to the subtype of C type hepatitis virus and subsequently detecting DNA fragments. CONSTITUTION: The subtype of the C type hepatitis virus is determined by extracting nucleic acid from a specimen such as serum collected from a C type chronic hepatitis patient by a guanidine thiocyanic acid method, synthesizing cDNA from the nucleic acid, multiplying the cDNA by a PCR method using a DNA polymerase and a mixed primer set comprising at least an oligo DNA and an antisense primer selected from respective DNA groups specific to the subtype of the C type hepatitis virus, subjecting the. multiplied cDNA to an electrophoresis treatment on a 3% agarose gel, dyeing with ethidium bromide and subsequently irradiating the dyed cDNA with UV rays to detect DNA fragments in the presence of bands appearing at positions expected for the respective types. COPYRIGHT: (C)1993,JPO&Japio
Abstract The stability of NCO species bonded to Pt, Rh and Pd produced by isocyanic acid (HNCO) adsorption has been investigated by infrared spectroscopy. Adsorption of HNCO on supported metals at 190 K produced an intense band at 2180 cm −1 which is attributed to the asymmetric vibration v a of NCO formed in the dissociative adsorption of HNCO on the metals. This band started to attenuate above 200 K, partly due to the decomposition of NCO into adsorbed CO and N, and partly due to the migration of NCO from the metals onto silica. These processes are indicated on the ir spectra by the appearance of absorption bands due to Si-NCO and M-CO species. The 2180 cm −1 band indicative of the presence of metal-NCO species was completely eliminated at 350 K on Pd, 400 K on Pt and 425 K on Rh. Oxygen treatment of the supported metals, however, greatly enhanced the stability of NCO on the metals.
The similarity between clinical signs of poisoning of horses by Sudan grass and of lathyrism is discussed. Acetone extracts of sorghum seedlings could convert L-cystine and hydrocyanic acid to H2S and β-cyanoalanine; 25% of the HCN was converted. β-Cyanoalanine is a precursor of the lathyrogenic dipeptide y-glutamyl-β-cyanoalanine, and this occurs in Vicia sativa, known to cause lathyrism. The significance of the process in Sudan grass in relation to poisoning of horses is discussed.-T. D. B.
Cyanic Acid Esters. 25 The Reaction of Mercapto-N-heterocycles with Aryl Cyanates ::: ::: ::: ::: Unsaturated N-heterocycles containing a cyclic thio urea structure and aryl cyanates (molar ratio 1:2), react to form azolo(1,2-d) (1,2,4)thiadiazoles. This reaction has a wide scope concerning starting materials and gives good yields. Under the same conditions 2-thione-benzthiazolin is transformed to the corresponding disulfide. 4,5-Bis-mercaptomethylene-o-xylene and aryl cyanates give 2,3-dithia-6, 7-dimethyl-tetraline.
AIM ::: Recent work has shown that humans are significantly exposed to isocyanic acid/cyanate, which is generated when coal, biomass, or tobacco is burned. In vivo, cyanate is formed by the phagocyte protein myeloperoxidase and by breakdown of urea. Carbamylation of proteins through cyanate has been demonstrated to predict cardiovascular risk and is thought to promote vascular dysfunction; however, the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Here, we show that cyanate induces intercellular cell adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) expression with subsequently enhanced neutrophil adhesion in human coronary artery endothelial cells. Cyanate triggers ICAM-1 expression through a mechanism depending on activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase p38 and nuclear factor-kappaB. Endothelial ICAM-1 expression was not induced when low-molecular-weight substances were removed from cell culture medium, thus ruling out a role of carbamylated (lipo)proteins in ICAM-1 induction. In mice, oral administration of cyanate induced marked endothelial ICAM-1 expression in the aorta. Moreover, in patients with end-stage renal disease, the extent of plasma protein carbamylation (a marker for cyanate exposure) significantly correlated with plasma levels of soluble ICAM-1. ::: ::: ::: INNOVATION ::: Here, we demonstrate for the first time that cyanate, rather than carbamylated lipoproteins, induces vascular ICAM-1 expression in vivo. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Collectively, our data raise the possibility that cyanate amplifies vascular inflammation, linking inflammation, smoking, and uremia.
synthesized and investigated the thermal decomposition of MNB and DNB by thermo-gravimetric analysis and differential scanning calorimetry. 1, 2 MNB was synthesized by nitration of biuret with Distribution A: Approved for public release; distribution unlimited 3 HNO 3 /H 2 SO 4 , and DNB was obtained by the treatment of MNB with 100% HNO 3 using a modified procedure of Thiele, 3 with an overall yield of 46% from the starting biuret. 1, 4 They observed that both MNB and DNB were white solids and MNB decomposed without melting at 153 o C, while DNB exploded when heated above 127 o C. In addition, DNB was observed to be impact and heat sensitive, had a density of 1.859 g/cm 3 , and detonated strongly without an oxidizer in a steel-sleeve test after 4 seconds. 2 Furthermore, they found that MNB and DNB showed distinctively different thermal behaviors, i.e., MNB had a significantly higher decomposition temperature than DNB, and as such, was found to have better thermal stability. Using mass spectrometry and IR spectroscopy, they identified the gaseous products from the decomposition of MNB and DNB, and proposed a reaction scheme to interpret their observations. In particular, they suggested that the thermal decomposition of MNB and DNB is initiated by the release of nitramine (NH 2 NO 2 ), which decomposes to dinitrogen oxide (N 2 O) and water. After this initiation step, the residue of MNB decomposes directly into two isocyanic acid (HNCO) molecules, while the residue of DNB leads directly to HNCO, N 2 O and CO 2 .
Abstract. We use femtosecond infrared spectroscopy to study the aqueous protonation dynamics of cyanate, OCN -, using a photoacid, 2-naphthol-6,8-disulfonate (2N-6,8S) excited by a 60-fs pulse tuned at 336 nm. The transient response in the spectral range of the cyano-stretching vibrational marker modes of cyanic acid, HOCN, and isocyanic acid, HNCO, reveals how much of both reaction products are formed at early delay times, and whether the on-contact reactive complex between 2N-6,8S and OCN -has a well-defined structure. Using the Szabo-Collins-Kimball approach to describe bimolecular reaction dynamics subject to the Debye-von Smoluchowski diffusional motions, an on-contact proton transfer reaction rate is derived that follows the correlation between free energy and reaction rates found for a large class of aqueous proton transfer of photoacid dissociation and photoacid-base neutralization reactions.
A laser-based far-infrared polarimeter-interferometer system utilizing the three-wave technique has been implemented on the J-TEXT tokamak. The polarimeter determines the Faraday effect by measuring the phase difference between two collinear, counter-rotating, circularly polarized laser beams. The first results of the polarimeter-interferometer designed for J-TEXT have been obtained in the most recent J-TEXT experimental campaign. Simultaneous polarimetric and interferometric measurement is achieved, with phase resolution up to 0.1°, at bandwidth of 50 kHz. The temporal resolution, which is dependent on the laser's frequency offset, is ∼1 μs. Continual spatial measurement covering 45 cm (80% of the plasma cross-section) is realized by utilizing 1D parabolic beam expansion optics. Three initial test chords are installed and future plans call for expansion up to 30 chords with 1.5 cm chord spacing, providing high spatial resolution for measurement of electron density and current density profiles. Reliability of both polarimetric and interferometric measurement is confirmed by comparison with computation and data from a hydrocyanic acid (HCN) interferometer. With the high temporal and phase resolution, perturbations associated with the sawtooth cycle and MHD activity have been observed.
The present invention relates generally to a method for the production of acetone cyanohydrin, comprising as steps: A. contacting acetone and hydrocyanic acid in a reactor to a reaction mixture, wherein the reaction mixture is circulated and acetone cyanohydrin is obtained; B. cooling at least a portion of the reaction mixture; C. discharging at least a portion of the acetone cyanohydrin obtained from the reactor; D. continuously distilling the discharged produced acetone cyanohydrin to yield a Acetoncyanhydrinsumpfprodukts and an acetone overhead product in a distillation column; E. recycling at least a portion of the overhead product acetone in the step A., wherein the acetone head product is held during retract to less than 60 °, to a process for preparing an alkyl methacrylate, a process for the production of methacrylic acid, to an apparatus for preparing alkyl methacrylates, a method for producing at least partially based on methacrylic polymers, the use of from available to the inventive method methacrylate in chemical products, and chemical products, based on the available by the inventive processes methacrylates.
A method for preparing cis-di(thiocyanato)-N,N-bis(2,2-bipyridyl-4,4-dicarboxylic acid)ruthenium(II)(N3) is provided to improve the yield significantly and mass-produce an N3 dye industrially. A method for preparing cis-di(thiocyanato)-N,N-bis(2,2-bipyridyl-4,4-dicarboxylic acid)ruthenium(II) comprises a step of subjecting a ruthenium(III) chloride hydrate, 2,2'-bipyridin-4,4'-dicarboxylic acid and an alkali metal salt of thiocyanic acid to reflux reaction using dimethyl formamide(DMF) or an aqueous solution of the DMF as a solvent in a microwave reactor irradiating microwave having a wavelength of 355W. Further, 5 to 95 vol.% of dimethyl formamide is comprised in the aqueous solution of the DMF.
The diluted gas phase within a mass spectrometer is ideally suited for performing collision experiments of fast moving ions with thermalized target atoms. One important reaction which can be brought about with a given cation is its selective reduction, i. e. its neutralization. This allows the synthesis in tailored experiments of a variety of unusual chemical species, which because of intermolecular processes cannot be prepared or studied in solution or in a matrix. Among the molecules which have been generated in this way are hypervalent species (Rydberg radicals) like H, van der Waals complexes like He2, mono- or disubstituted acetylene derivatives XCCY (X H, Y OH, NH2; X Y OH, NH2), and elusive compounds like carbonic acid (H2CO3) or carbamic acid (NH2CO2H). Collision experiments can also be used advantageously for the structural analysis of the neutral molecule N generated in unimolecular dissociation reactions of the type m m+N. The dissociation of ionized aniline for example yields, besides C5H cations, neutral isocyanic acid, HNC, and not cyanic acid, HCN. The technique of Neutralization Reionization Mass Spectrometry (NRMS) is performed in the diluted gas phase, a medium where intermolecular interactions are entirely absent. The method may therefore increasingly be applied to the study of molecular species whose reactivity precludes their characterization in matrices. Molecules in specific excited states and fragments of organometallic compounds with unsaturated valencies are two examples of systems which could fruitfully be studied.
Assuming chemical and thermal equilibrium to be maintained in the detonation wave-front, and using the equation of state in the form of the virial expansion, the velocity of detonation has been determined as a function of the loading density. In the absence of data at sufficiently high pressures and temperatures for the products of detonation of T.N.T., it has been assumed that the virial coefficients are constant and their values have been determined to give agreement with the measured values of the detonation velocity for loading densities less than 1$\cdot $5 g.cm.$^{-3}$. The pressure-volume-temperature relation in the detonation wave-front can then be determined. The pressure in the detonation wave-front is found to be of the order of 2 $\times $ 10$^{11}$ dyne cm.$^{-2}$ for a loading density of 1$\cdot $5 g.cm.$^{-3}$, compared with the value of 9$\cdot $4 $\times $ 10$^{10}$ dyne cm.$^{-2}$ given in the earlier work of other authors using the co-volume method. With the equation of state adopted in this paper it is found that at a high loading density only negligibly small amounts of hydrogen and carbon monoxide are present in the detonation wave-front, a fact which facilitates the calculation of the adiabatic relations in this case. It is shown (part B) that these gases do, however, develop rapidly during the initial stages of the adiabatic expansion. The calculation of the equilibrium conditions in the detonation wave-front with the adopted equation of state (part A) determines the initial conditions for the calculation of the adiabatic relations for a high loading density. The chemical composition of the gases during the adiabatic expansion and the external work done during it have been calculated for a loading density of 1$\cdot $5 g.cm.$^{-3}$ (part B). It is shown that the large amount of chemical energy released in the early stages of the expansion is to be correlated with the high effective value of the exponent in the adiabatic in this region, and this is due to the dominant role of the repulsive forces between the molecules of the tightly compressed gases during the early stages of the expansion. The same effect is also observed in the case of a low loading density (part C). The difference with regard to the amounts of hydrogen and carbon monoxide present in the detonation wave-front for a low loading density complicates the solution of the equations in this case. In part C it is shown how this can be done for a loading density of 1$\cdot $0 g.cm.$^{-3}$, and the detonation velocity and the pressure, density and temperature in the wave-front have been determined using the same equation of state as in parts A and B. The adiabatic pressure-volume relation for the expansion of the products of detonation, and the chemical composition during, and up to the end of, the adiabatic expansion have also been determined. Compared with the results for a high loading density, there is considerably more carbon monoxide and less carbon dioxide and a substantial rise in the total number of moles of gas produced per mole of explosive. The ratio is found to be sensitive to the pressure in the detonation wave-front, from which, by comparison with the observed values of this ratio, independent evidence is obtained for the detonation pressure calculated in part A. The chemical energy released per gram of explosive is less for a loading density of 1$\cdot $0 g.cm.$^{-3}$ than for a loading density of 1$\cdot $5 g.cm.$^{-3}$, and the external work done is also less in the former than in the latter case. The amounts of ammonia and of hydrocyanic acid in chemical equilibrium with the other gases are determined and they are found to be negligibly small. It is concluded that these gases, observed in experiments, are probably formed by catalytic action with the bomb fragments during the cooling period after the adiabatic expansion has been completed. The calculations have been compared with the available experimental data and are in reasonable agreement with it. An explanation is suggested for the observed difference in the composition of the gaseous products of the detonation of T.N.T., initiated at a given loading density, with detonators of different power.
In this study we have coupled mixed quantum-classical (quantum mechanics/molecular mechanics) direct chemical dynamics simulations with electrospray ionization/tandem mass spectrometry experiments in order to achieve a deeper understanding of the fragmentation mechanisms occurring during the collision induced dissociation of gaseous protonated uracil. Using this approach, we were able to successfully characterize the fragmentation pathways corresponding to ammonia loss (m/z 96), water loss (m/z 95) and cyanic or isocyanic acid loss (m/z 70). Furthermore, we also performed experiments with isotopic labeling completing the fragmentation picture. Remarkably, fragmentation mechanisms obtained from chemical dynamics simulations are consistent with those deduced from isotopic labeling.
The effects of heating rate and atmosphere on the yield of hydrocyanic acid(HCN) from pyrolysis of glycine(Gly),alanine(Ala),leucine(Leu),isoleucine(Ile)and proline(Pro)were investigated by a modified thermo-gravimetric analyzer.The results showed that: 1)with the increase of heating rate,the yields of HCN increased except that from Gly;2)the yields of HCN in the presence of oxygen were significantly lower than that in nitrogen atmosphere;3)the yield of HCN from Gly was higher than from the other 4 amino acids under the test conditions.In an atmosphere containing 10% O2 + 90% N2 and at a heating rate of 40 ℃/min,the amino acids in the order of HCN yield were GlyLeuIle ProAla.
The fragmentation pattern of some protonated 2,5-diaryl-1,3,4-oxadiazoles is discussed. An unusual decomposition consisting of elimination of the isocyanic acid molecule from the internal oxadiazole ring was found. This fragmentation pathway was deduced on the basis of B/E linked scan mass spectra of metastable ions with liquid secondary ion mass spectrometry as the ionization method and also of low-energy CID mass spectra where electrospray was used as the ionization technique. High resolution measurements were also performed.
The isomerization of ammonium cyanate in dimethyl sulphoxide leads to urea with a substantial side reaction yielding biuret (c. 25 % at 60°). Biuret is formed in a process that is competitive with urea formation and not in a subsequent reaction involving urea. The production of urea, as in water, is by the reaction of ammonia and cyanic acid molecules and it is postulated that biuret is formed through an intermediate of dimerized cyanic acid. Temperature and ionic strength dependence have been studied. Kinetic studies of the isomerization of methylammonium and ethylammonium cyanates are also described.
The present invention discloses a functional food Ganoderma Ginkgo and its preparation method, the process relates to the field of biological engineering. Ginkgo Ginkgo raw materials used mainly bacteria and submerged culture fermentation solids Ganoderma Ginkgo functional food. Ginkgo cut into 3-5mm pieces, after sterilization access Ganoderma 5 to 30% seed liquid, sealed with plastic wrap fermentation, was subjected to drying and grinding, i.e. ginkgo Ganoderma functional food. The article contains flavonoids 0.3 ~ 2mg / g, Ginkgolide 0.2 ~ 1.5mg / g, Ganoderma triterpene 0.8 ~ 3.9mg / g, protein 0.9 ~ 8mg / g, soluble sugars <0.5%, a polysaccharide 1 ~ 15mg / g , ginkgo acid <5ug / g, hydrocyanic acid <0.1μg / g. Since the product contains flavonoids, terpenes and triterpenes Ganoderma and other active ingredients, and thus inhibit the proliferation of tumor cells in vivo and to reduce the effect of oxidative stress.
Sorghum midge (Stenodiplosis sorghicola [Coquillett]) is found in most countries where sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L. Moench) is grown (Doggett 1988). A number of sorghum lines resistant to the sorghum midge have been identified (Teetes 1985). Various mechanisms have been proposed for midge resistance, including cleistogamy, nonpreference, antibiosis, tannin content, and glume size and tightness (Doggett 1988 and Teetes 1985). Dhurrin[p-hydroxy-(S)-mandelonitrile-$-D-glucoside] is the cyanogen of sorghum (Gorz et al. 1977) that is enzymatically hydrolyzed to cyanide and p-hydroxybenzaldehyde (p-HB) when cellular integrity is interrupted (Wajant et al. 1994). Gorz et al. (1977) reviewed studies that showed colorimetric methods can be used to determine cyanogen content or hydrocyanic acid potential (HCN-p) in plant tissue. In an unrelated study in search for cyclic hydroxamic acids (e.g., DIMBOA), the second author (M. D. Richardson) found that midge resistant sorghum genotypes, Huerin and Tift MR88, produced 0.52 and 0.78 mg p-HB while midge intermediate (genotype 1821 cm) and midge susceptible (Tx623B) genotypes produced 0.18 and 0.15 mg p-HB per g fresh weight [LSD(0.05) = 0.10], respectively (unpublished data). The objective of this study was to determine whether resistance to sorghum midge may be related to HCN levels. In this study, three replications (pots) of 10 genotypes (Table 1) of sorghum with varying levels of midge resistance were planted in 20 cm wide plastic pots in the greenhouse on 17 Nov 1993 in a randomized complete block design. Plants were thinned to six plants per pot at ten days after planting. Response of the genotypes to midge (Table 1) were determined in a previous unpublished study, where a rating of 0 = resistant and 9 = susceptible. These entries were part of a larger experiment arranged in a randomized complete block with four replications where genotypes were rated for midge resistance under natural midge infestation at Tifton, Georgia. All genotypes in this study were inbred lines except DeKalb E57, Hyperformer, AgraTech 712G and Pioneer 8333 which were F, hybrids. Plants were grown under uniform temperature (28 to 30E C) and moisture conditions in the greenhouse. Plants were fertilized with a complete water-soluble fertilizer to maintain healthy growth. HCN contents were analyzed by analysis of variance procedures (SAS Institute, Inc., 1985) to evaluate genotype effects. Differences between genotype means were separated by the least significance difference (LSD) test at the 0.05 probability level. Leaf discs from non-expanded leaves of the six plants (50 days old) in a pot were cut with a #3 cork cutter and placed in 10 ml test tubes. Leaf tissue from each genotype in each replication weighed 0.07 g. No significant differences in dry weights of the leaf tissue were observed among replications and genotypes. Four drops of chloroform were added to each test tube. We used the colorimetric technique and standards described by Hogg and Ahlgren (1942). HCN content of the solutions were determined using a Milton Roy Company Spectronic 501 at 540 nm with Mr. Sipper.
The resistance of microorganisms to antibiotics is, in our days, one of the biggest problems in terms of public health. The research for new artificial and natural families of compounds throws us towards innovative methodologies leading to novel antibiotics.In the present work, we are invited to dive in the “new world” of 1,3-oxazoline-2-thiones (OXTs) synthesis, reactivity and biological activity. In fact, this unexplored heterocycle is a simple synthon readily obtained by condensation of thiocyanic acid with an _-hydroxycarbonyl species. When the heterocycle is anchored on a carbohydrate template, original structures are expected such as OZTs fused to five- or six-membered rings and OXTs C-C linked to sugars, with a broad potential in organic chemistry and bioorganic applications. We have then investigated the synthesis and reactivity of simple OXT and thionocarbamates fused or linked to carbohydrate templates, leading to the formation of new carbohydrate-fused oxazolidinones (OZOs) as well as pseudo-C-iminosugars and oxazoles. We have also explored the use of thioxo compounds as electrophiles in Pd-assisted cross-coupling methods, such as Suzuki and Stille reactions. A new modified Sonogashira cross-coupling reaction, in which copper (I) is used in catalytic amount, was developed and its feasibility was proven for a variety of substrates. Finally, our attention was focused on the biological potential of the new molecules. We have targeted a broad spectrum of antimicrobial activity for some OXTs and OZTs, to which was added a screening of glycosidases inhibition for the pseudo C-iminosugars.
It has been shown that the evolution of hydrocyanic acid during the thermal oxidative degradation of aliphatic and aromatic polyurethanes is inhibited by metals such as Cu and Co powders, their oxides, and decomposable compounds. Other metals are much less efficient inhibitor. The inhibition efficiency also depends on the degree of dispersion. Cu or its oxides and decomposable compounds are the most powerful inhibitors; very effective are copper films (400 to 1000-A thick) deposited on polymer films. It is shown that HCN evolved from NaCN is catalytically decomposed in an air stream; if the velocity of such a stream is low and the HCN concentration is small, then the main decomposition product is N2 (ca. 90 %) plus small amounts of nitrogen oxides, H2O, and CO2. The catalytic decomposition reaction of HCN evolved from polyurethanes is exactly analogous to that for NaCN, i.e., at low air flow rates and low HCN concentrations mainly N2 is the decomposition product. The results obtained for HCN evolved from NaCN agree well with those of previous workers. It can be definitely concluded that the inhibition by copper of HCN evolution from polyurethanes and other nitrogen containing polymers is not due to a change in the oxidative degradation mechanism of the polymers but is due to the catalytic decomposition of HCN evolved from polymers.
Characteristics of the ground electronic state of HNCO have been investigated theoretically in a series of eight ab initio analyses involving qualitative features of the electronic structure, the barrier to linearity, the NH(3Σ−)+CO fragmentation energy, the H–NCO bond dissociation energy, heats of formation of isomers of HNCO, fundamental vibrational frequencies and anharmonic force fields, the rovibrational spectrum of DNCO, and the precise Re structure of isocyanic acid. Sundry state‐of‐the‐art electronic structure methods were employed in the study, including restricted and unrestricted Hartree–Fock (RHF and UHF), complete‐active‐space self‐consistent‐field (CASSCF), configuration interaction singles and doubles (CISD), Mo/ller–Plesset perturbation theory through fourth and occasionally fifth order (MP2–MP5), coupled‐cluster singles and doubles (CCSD), and CCSD augmented by a perturbative contribution from connected triple excitations [CCSD(T)]. The one‐particle basis sets ranged in quality from (9s5p...
ABSTRACTPractical synthesis of 1,3-diaryl-substituted 3-isothiocyanatopropan-1-ones based on the reaction of chalcones with thiocyanic acid generated in situ by treatment of thiocyanate ammonium with dilute sulfuric acid has been developed.
Abstract Polyurethanes are widely used in the manufacture of commercial products such as foams and paints. During combustion, these polymers can generate isocyanates, which induce adverse health effects. Polymer pyrolysis (Py) hyphenated with mass spectrometry (MS) allows the investigation of polymer thermal degradation over time/temperature. A diphenylmethanediisocyanate (MDI) polyurethane foam was analyzed with electron ionization (EI) and metastable atom bombardment (MAB) ionization at a pyrolysis temperature of 400 °C. The recently introduced MAB ionization source uses discrete energy stored in metastable atoms of gases to ionize the analytes. This characteristic allows modulation of the ionization energy by simply changing the ionization gas. The extensive fragmentation of molecular ions observed using EI 70 eV is not totally eliminated with EI 10 eV. However, only molecular ions are observed with MAB using N 2 as the ionization gas. Temperature gradients were used to separate the products generated during the thermal degradation of a 1,6-hexamethylenediisocyanate (HDI) polyurethane paint. The analysis of mass spectra was facilitated owing to a selective desorption of pyrolysis products. Furthermore, changing the MAB ionization gas allows elucidation of the structure of the pyrolysis products by controlling the extent of their fragmentation. During these experiments, isocyanic acid, methyleneisocyanate, ethyleneisocyanate, propylisocyanate and butylisocyanate were detected.
The malting and brewing characteristics of three sorghum varieties were investigated in a micromalting and microbrewing plant. The optimum malting conditions for Sorghum vulgare c.v. Fara Fara (Australia), Sorghum bicolor (South Africa) and Sorghum vulgare c.v. SK5912 (Nigeria) were found to consist of steeping for 21 h, at 30°C, initial germination at 30°C for 24 h, followed by a further germination period of 4 days at 25°C. Kilning temperatures of 50°C and 82°C were investigated. Evidence of the presence of hydrocyanic acid was found. The extent of modification in all malts was markedly irregular with the kernels showing brown coloration on the outer layers. The brewing trials with 100% sorghum malt showed a slow and incomplete saccharification, slow lauter tun filtrations and very difficult beer filtrations. By supplementing commercial enzymes in the mash only the speed of lauter tun filtration improved significantly.
Hitherto the detection of free sulfur has been made by changing it into sulfide, thiocyanic acid, thiosulfuric acid or others and utilizing their characteristics. In this study, sulfur was subjected to react with manganese oxide(IV) on heating, in order to change it into manganese sulfate, and then the manganese was oxydized into permanganic acid. By doing this, manganese was sharply detected, and consequently sulfur could be sharply detected indirectly. However, part of sulfide and part of sulfate also react similarly with manganese oxide(IV) and produce manganese sulfate, it is necessary to separate them by carbon disulfide, if they are present. Since manganese dioxide reagents sometimes give a positive result for this test, it is better to use manganese dioxide ore instead. In this case, however, a blank test is indispensable.
Abstract Addition of gaseous isocyanic acid (HNCO) to the exhaust of combustion systems or chemical process has been proposed as a method for reducing nitric oxide (NO) emissions. The HNCO selectively reduces NO in the exhaust through a multistep chemical reaction mechanism. This article presents an experimental investigation of the proposed NO reduction process using cyanuric acid as the source of HNCO. At elevated temperature cyanuric acid decomposes and forms HNCO. The effects of temperature, exhaust gas composition, cyanuric acid concentration (i.e., HNCO concentration), and surfaces were examined. The experiments were conducted in an electrically heated quartz flow reactor using either exhaust from a diesel engine or simulated exhaust gas. The results demonstrate that gas phase NO reduction approaching 100% can be obtained. The lowest temperature for which gas phase NO reduction is observed is 950 K. The exhaust gas composition is the primary factor in determining the specific temperature range over which the NO reduction occurs, as well as the magnitude of the NO reduction, for a fixed cyanuric acid input. Three species in the exhaust gas that have a strong influence on the NO reduction process are O 2 , H 2 O, and CO. The results also demonstrate the cyanuric acid, HNCO, and N 2 O can be emitted when the NO reduction occurs in the gas phase. Finally, the results show that surfaces can have a major effect, either shifting the NO reduction to lower temperatures or causing a net production of NO.
Zinc phosphide is used as a rodenticide and is toxic to animals with varying toxicity among species. Primary poisoning of wildlife has been recorded especially in seed-eating birds and waterfowl, secondary poisoning may occur if predators eat poisoned animals that contain a large dose in their alimentary canal. The episode of death of Jungle Myna (Acridotheres fuscus) was noted in the Nilgiri Biosphere of the Western Ghats by the locals and reported to the forest authorities. Subsequently four dead birds were collected for thorough post-mortem examination and samples were collected for laboratory investigation. The samples were subjected to various tests like hydro cyanic acid detection test, zinc phosphide detection test and organo-phosphorus compounds detection test. The history, the post-mortem findings and the toxicological investigation confirmed that these birds succumbed to the rodenticide, zinc phosphide. We confirm that the Jungle Myna opted for the zinc phosphide coated grains used for rodent control in the forest area.
In order to probe further into the mechanism of the occurrence of kinetic cardiac hypertrophy,the authors observed the expression of edotheline messenger ribonucleic acid(ET-1 mRNA) of 70 SD rats during their 75 d endurance training by applying reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction(RT-PCR)technology,applied isosulfocyanic acid guanidine approach to abstract total RNA in cardiac muscle tissue and measure ET-1 mRNA in atria muscle,based the internal control on β-actin to measure the ratio of ET-1 mRNA/β-actin mRNA as the express of ET-1 mRNA in each test sample,and revealed that in the 5 time phase points the difference between the expression of ET-1 mRNA in atria muscle tissue of rats in the experimental group and that of rats in the control group had no meaning of significance.During the occurrence of kinetic cardiac hypertrophy caused by medium intensity exercises,the expression of ET-1 mRNA in atria muscle tissue may not be changed.
IDA is an important fine chemical intermediate. It has wide applications and is mainly used in producing glyphosate herbicides, chelating agents and surfactants (Ni et al., 2009) . Currently, the production of IDA mainly uses chemical methods, including the hydrocyanic acid method (Rmon, 1991), diethanolamine method (Bornscheuer and Kazlauskas, 2006), and chloroacetic acid method (Farbwerke Hoechst, 1969) . These methods produce a large amount of waste water and byproducts, which are unfriendly to the environment (Duan et al., 2007) . Enzymatic production of IDA has some advantages, such as the mild reaction conditions, environmental friendliness and low cost. So far, only a few papers have reported nitrilase-catalyzed production of IDA. A nitrilase-produced strain named Alcaligenes faecalis ZJB-09133 was screened by using IDAN as the carbon source, and the whole cells were used to catalyze IDAN to IDA, which showed the conversion only reached 65.3% at 8 h after optimization of the reaction conditions (Liu et al., 2011) . The Acidovorax facilis nitrilase was cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3), and the recombinant cells were entrapped in polyvinyl alcohol and sodium alginate copolymer and used to catalyze IDAN to
IDA is an important fine chemical intermediate. It has wide applications and is mainly used in producing glyphosate herbicides, chelating agents and surfactants (Ni et al., 2009) . Currently, the production of IDA mainly uses chemical methods, including the hydrocyanic acid method (Rmon, 1991) , diethanolamine method (Bornscheuer and Kazlauskas, 2006) , and chloroacetic acid method (Farbwerke Hoechst, 1969) . These methods produce a large amount of waste water and byproducts, which are unfriendly to the environment (Duan et al., 2007) . Enzymatic production of IDA has some advantages, such as the mild reaction conditions, environmental friendliness and low cost. So far, only a few papers have reported nitrilase-catalyzed production of IDA. A nitrilase-produced strain named Alcaligenes faecalis ZJB-09133 was screened by using IDAN as the carbon source, and the whole cells were used to catalyze IDAN to IDA, which showed the conversion only reached 65.3% at 8 h after optimization of the reaction conditions (Liu et al., 2011) . The Acidovorax facilis nitrilase was cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3), and the recombinant cells were entrapped in polyvinyl alcohol and sodium alginate copolymer and used to catalyze IDAN to
Recently, negative chemical ionization (NCI) based on an ion mobility spectrometer was applied for the rapid analysis of inorganic acid oxidizers in black powder, firecrackers, and match heads with O 2 − (H 2 O)n as the reactant ion 48 . As a nontraditional ionization mode, NCI has been employed for detecting various compounds, such as carboxylic acids, isocyanic acid, hydrogen cyanide, and other inorganic acids using negative reactant ions O 2 − , OH − , NO 2 − , O − , and I − 49-53 . The combination of an NCI ion source and time-of-flight mass spectrometry (TOFMS) may be a feasible solution for the analysis of acid radicals in ash samples.
Characteristics of the ground electronic state of HNCO have been investigated theoretically in a series of eight ab initio analyses involving qualitative features of the electronic structure, the barrier to linearity, the NH(38-) +CO fragmentation energy, the H-NC0 bond dissociation energy, heats of formation of isomers of HNCO, fundamental vibrational frequencies and anharmonic force fields, the rovibrational spectrum of DNCO, and the precise R, structure of isocyanic acid. Sundry state-of-the-art electronic structure methods were employed in the study, including restricted and unrestricted Hartree-Fock (RHF and UHF), complete-active-space self-consistent-field (CASSCF) , configuration interaction singles and doubles (CISD), Msller-Plesset perturbation theory through fourth and occasionally fifth order (MP2-MP5), coupled-cluster singles and doubles (CCSD), and CCSD augmented by a perturbative contribution from connected triple excitations [CCSD (T)]. The one-particle basis sets ranged in quality from (9s5pld/4s2pld) to (13s8p3d2f/6sSp3d2f ) on the heavy atoms and from (4slp/2slp) to (6s2pld/4s2pld) on hydrogen. Several revisions of thermochemical data are proposed, in particular, a larger barrier to linearity of 5.7(3) kcal mol-', an enhanced bond energy of 85.4 ( 10) kcal mol-' for Da (NH-CO), and more reliable relative energies for the isomers of HNCO, viz
In this study, an evaluation of intermediate products of plum processing as potential raw materials for distillates production was performed. Effects of composition of mashes on ethanol yield, chemical composition and taste, and flavor of the obtained spirits were determined. The obtained results showed that spontaneous fermentations of the tested products of plum processing with native microflora of raisins resulted in lower ethanol yields, compared to the ones fermented with wine yeast Saccharomyces bayanus. The supplementation of mashes with 120 g/L of sucrose caused an increase in ethanol contents from 6.2 ± 0.2 ÷ 6.5 ± 0.2% v/v in reference mashes (without sucrose addition, fermented with S. bayanus) to ca. 10.3 ± 0.3% v/v, where its highest yields amounted to 94.7 ± 2.9 ÷ 95.6 ± 2.9% of theoretical capacity, without negative changes in raw material originality of distillates. The concentrations of volatile compounds in the obtained distillates exceeding 2000 mg/L alcohol 100% v/v and low content of methanol and hydrocyanic acid, as well as their good taste and aroma make the examined products of plum processing be very attractive raw materials for the plum distillates production. ::: ::: Practical Application ::: ::: The obtained results confirm the usefulness of intermediate products of plum processing for the production of spirits. After an additional treatment (that is, maturation in the presence of oak wood), those spirits can be used for the production of fruit vodkas (slivovitz, brandy).
A chemical kinetic model is developed for the non-catalytic reduction of nitric oxide (NO) by hydrazine (N2H4). Since the reduction of NO was observed in an experimental reaction with N2H4, the hydrazine has been suggested as a new reductant of NO in addition to the conventional ammonia, urea and isocyanic acid. In the proposed kinetic model, a set of fifty one chemical reactions that includes the various branching reactions of N2H4 to NH2 and the wellknown reaction NO+NH2→N2+H2O is simultaneously considered with the usual partial equilibrium assumptions. The NO reduction is estimated to occur at a temperature range between 700K and 1400 K, which is wider and lower than in the conventional Thermal DeNOx process. The maximum amount of the reduced NO is slightly less than that in the Thermal DeNOx. The effects of the other input parameter on the NO reduction rate also discussed.
In central Brazil after soybean or other annual agricultural species is harvested, sorghum hybrids are planted in the fall in order to establish pastures for grazing animals. This study conducted for two consecutive years aimed at quantifying the contents of hydrocyanic acid in the leaves and determining plant height, forage dry matter yield and the leaf/stem ratio for sorghum hybrid 1P400 at different ages. Statistical analysis was performed by regression analysis based on plant age. Leaf HCN content decreased with plant growth, ranging from 205.0 and 230.3 mg HCN/100 g leaf DM at two weeks old to 5.9 and 6.1 mg HCN/100 g leaf DM at five weeks old in the first and second year, respectively. The average heights measured varied from 60 and 56 cm, in the 4 th week, to 117 and 151 cm, in the 8 th week, during the first and second experimental year, respectively. Forage mass increased linearly with age and displayed average of 1.411 and 1.637 kg DM/ha in the first year and, 2.905 and 3.640 kg DM/ha in the second year, during the 7 th and 8 th week, respectively. Leaf proportion decreased while stem increased linearly with plant age. The leaf/stem ratio decreased with plant growth, elongation and increasing stem weight. The sorghum hybrid should be grazed only after five weeks or when the plant height is above 80 cm, in order to avoid the risk of cyanide poisoning.
Boiled fresh cassava or oven-dried cassava flour provided 50% of the energy and less than 10% of the protein in diets of convalescent malnourished infants; casein was added to complete 8% of energy as protein, and vegetable oil (soybean-cottonseed) was added to make 20% of energy as fat. Despite high wet weights of feces (172 +/- 42 and 214 +/- 41 g/d), their dry weights (20 +/- 3 and 22 +/- 2 g/d) and their energy (6.9 +/- 0.7 and 7.6 +/- 0.5% of intake) and nitrogen (17 +/- 3 and 20 +/- 3% of intake) contents were low, and their fat content (4.4 +/- 1.3 and 5.2 +/- 1.2% of intake) was very low. Cassava is a surprisingly effective source of energy which interferes little or not at all with digestion of added protein and fat in weaning diets. For its safe use, it is important that home or industrial processing almost completely eliminate its potential hydrocyanic acid content, and that a good quality protein supplement be consumed regularly in nutritionally adequate amounts.
1. ::: ::: Depending on the basicity and nucleophilicity of the reagent, the action of nucleophilic reagents on 3-(R-o-carboranyl)-1,2-epoxypropanes can proceed in two directions: with an opening of the oxide ring, and isomerization to allyl alcohol derivatives. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: The reaction of the 3-(R-o-carboranyl)-1,2-epoxypropanes with hydrocyanic acid in the presence of trimethylamine gives the corresponding cyanohydrins in high yields. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: Aminoalcohols of the o-carborane series were obtained by the reaction of the S-(R-o-carboranyl)-1, 2-epoxypropanes with secondary amines.
Whooping-cough is one of the most distressing diseases of childhood, although it has been observed in adults. It seldom occurs before the sixth month of life, nor is it frequent after the eighth year. Second attacks are exceedingly rare. Barthez and Rilliet mention a case occurring on the day after birth, the mother having had the disease four weeks previously. Bouchet mentions a case infected on the second day of life, developing on the eighth. Keating records a case of a child born with the disease. Steiner has seen it between the second and third weeks. The pathology of the disease is unsettled, but it appears to be a catarrh of the respiratory organs, combined with an affection of the respiratory nerves, rather than a pure neurosis. This unsettled pathology has led to the employment of remedies without number. Among them may be mentioned hydrocyanic acid, potassium bromide, ammonium bromide,
【Natural Ginger extract was extracted from Ginger component using ethanol as a solvent, and we tested various pharmaceutical characteristics in this extract. Characteristics experiment to use natural Ginger extract tested antimicrobial experiment using microbe, and analyzed organic and inorganic component with analysis instrument. From the result of characteristics experiment, some conclusions are obtained as follow. In this experiment, natural Ginger extract was obtained about 22.50 g-Ginger extract(extraction ratio : 1.80%) as liquid state of some viscous yellow-brown color. The result of antimicrobial experiment with staphylococcus aureus and aspergillus niger in microbe decreased more and more according to passage of reaction time. This phenomenon could know that Ginger extract has influenced to antimicrobial effect. In the result of instrumental analysis, aromatic organic components of benzimidazole(1.283), propyl isothiocyanate or isothiocyanic acid(1.477) etcs from Ginger extract were detected with GC/MS and inorganic component of Ca(27.6 ppm), K(24.08 ppm), Mg(6.03 ppm), Na(1.02 ppm), Zn(1.02 ppm), Sb(0.711 ppm) and Li(0.079 ppm) etcs from Ginger extract were detected with ICP/OES.】
The invention relates to a process for the preparation of ethanedinitrile by reacting hydrocyanic acid with nitric acid in the presence of a copper catalyst.
The effect of processing conditions, such as fermentation period, pH, and frying time and temperature on the microbiological, biochemical, physicochemical and organoleptic quality characteristics of 'garri' produced from cassava (Manihot esculenta) were evaluated. Results showed that the total bacterial count increased with the increase in fermentation period to 96 h up to 1.03 x 10 8 , and thereafter decreased when the fermentation period was ended after 120 h. Mixed microbial populations of Bacillus, Streptococcus, Staphylococcus and Corynebacterium species dominated the early phase, while Leuconostoc, Lactobacillus, Candida, Geotrichun and Pichia species dominated the later phase of fermentation. The pH decreased from 5.04 ± 0.01 to 3.47 ± 0.02, while the titratable acidity at the end of the fermentation period increased from 0.01 ± 0.001 to 0.04 ± 0.001. With the exception oflipids, moisture and hydrocyanic acid contents, which decreased with fermentation period, the increase recorded in the carbohydrates, proteins, ash, and fibre contents were significant at p < 0.05. Frying at 75.5 ± 0.5 °C for 20 min drastically reduced the bioload by several folds. Sharp reductions, which were significant at p < 0.001, 0.01, 0.05, were recorded in the moisture and hydrocyanic acid contents. Different stages of processing impacted significant effects on the sensory attributes evaluated. The recorded observations are likely to be useful for developing viable indices for the production, processing and handling of 'garri'.
The invention discloses a preparation method of ortho-formate, which comprises the steps of salifying, alcoholysis, distillation and the like, wherein in the salifying reaction, the absorption of HCl and the addition of hydrocyanic acid are carried out by steps; and in the alcoholysis process, excessive hydrogen chloride is removed from a salifying solution firstly, the corresponding alcohol liquid is added for carrying out alcoholysis reaction. After the alcoholysis reaction is ended, an alcoholysis reaction solution is transferred to a centrifugal machine for centrifugal separation, and a product obtained by the centrifugal separation exists in filtrate, and ammonium chloride as a side product exists in a filter cake; the filtrate obtained by the separation is transferred into an alcoholysis solution storage tank; and the filter cake is transferred to a washing reactor for washing to recycle the side product and a solvent. The preparation method provided by the invention has the advantages of easiness in obtaining the raw materials, simple process, good safety, high and stable yield, high purity of the ortho-formate, and low cost, and is an ideal process for producing the ortho-formate.
Publisher Summary ::: This chapter discusses carbonic acid and its derivatives, a large and diverse group of compounds. Metacarbonic acid and its esters, such as carbon dioxide, esters of carbonic acid, anhydrides of primary esters of carbonic acid, mixed anhydrides of primary carbonates, and mono-carboxylic acids are also profiled with detailed information on general methods of preparation, properties, and typical reactions. Halides of carbonic acid, sulfur analogues of carbonic acid, and their derivatives, such as carbon oxysulfide and carbon disulfide, thiocarbonic acids and their halides, such as thiophosgene, amides, and related derivatives of carbonic acid, and the thiocarbonic acids are illustrated in a systematic manner. Special stress is evident in the discussion on urea and its derivatives, such as halogenoureas, ureides, and so on because of its commercial relevance as a fertilizer. Derivatives of iminodicarboxylic acid, such as biuret and nitrilotricarboxylic acid, sulfur analogues of carbamic acid, and hydrazino, azo, and azido derivatives of thiocarbonic acid are also emphasized in this chapter. Sulfur compounds of cyanogens, such as thiocyanic acid, cyanamide and its derivatives, and derivatives of carbodi-imide and orthocarbonic acid are also covered.
In recent years, green manuring with sorghum-Sudan, or Hyden grass, has become considerably more popular among some nursery workers. In part, the use of these rapidly growing annuals was stimulated by the assumption that the toxic excretions of these plants, or their residues, would control Cylindrocladium floridanum and other root rot fungi. The phytotoxicity of either component of these hybrids, which contain hydrdcyanic acid, is well established. In time of drought, Sudan pastures have been responsible for the mortality of livestock (3). On the other hand, sorghum residues contain highly concentrated phytotoxins, which inhibit the growth of crops even after 16 weeks of decomposition (1, 2). These observations suggest that green manure of sorghum-Sudan may unfavorably influence the growth of nursery stock. In consequence, a study of the effect of sorghum-Sudan on seedlings of several pine species was conducted under controlled conditions
The seeds and leaves of African Locust Bean (Parkia biglobosa) were evaluated for their proximate analysis, minerals and anti-nutritional factors. Atomic absorption spectrometry was used in the determination of the levels of Ca, Mg,K, Na, Mn, Fe, Cu and Zn. Anti-nutritional Factors (ANFs), including Trypsin inhibitor, oxalates, phytates, tannins, saponins, hydrocyanic acid were also determined using appropriate techniques. The result showed that the seeds of P.biglobosa had significantly higher (p<0.05)crude protein (33.50%), crude fat (49.20%) and %dry matter (95.20%) contents compared to the leaves having crude protein(18.40%), crude fat (8.11%) and %dry matter (88.80%), while the leaves had significantly higher (p<0.05) contents of ash (13.60%), crude fibre(18.90%) and moisture (11.20%) as against the seeds havingash (4.81%), crude fibre(4.66%)and moisture (4.89%). The mineral content of the analyzed samples showed that the seeds were richer in Ca (0.703%), Mg (0.356%), K (0.211%), Na (86.729ppm), Mn (54.811ppm), Fe (69.828ppm), Cu (9.766ppm) and Zn (12.156ppm), while the leaves recorded higher Phosphorus level (79.833ppm) than the seeds. For the ANFs, the seeds recorded higher levels of trypsin inhibitor (0.059+0.01), haemagglutinating units (46.00+0.07) and tannins (0.51+0.00) than the leaves, while the leaves recorded higher levels of oxalates (0.97+0.00), phytates (2.16+0.03), saponins (1.24+0.00) and hydrogen cyanide (87.9+0.56)than the seeds. The overall results are suggestive of higher nutritional quality of the seeds than the leaves due to higher mineral contents and lower presence of some anti-nutritional factors.
Results are given of the mortality of the adults of Tribolium confusum Duv. And Sitophilus oryza (L.) obtained when fumigated with carbon tetrachloride, hydrocyanic acid, and methyl bromide under forced circulation with no load, and in the presence of wheat and corn of 10%, 12.5%, and 15% moisture content and 50°. 70°, and 90°F. and the concentration of the fumigant under these conditions. ::: ::: Under conditions of forced circulation the drop in concentration of carbon tetrachloride, hydrocyanic acid, and methyl bromide was greater in corn than in wheat, and the higher moisture contents of corn or wheat, these effects being reflected in insect mortality. The sorption of carbon tetrachloride by corn or wheat was greatest at 50°F. and least at 90°F. while temperature had little effect on the sorption of hydrocyanic acid or methyl bromide by corn or wheat. ::: ::: Adults of Sitophilus Oriya were more tolerant to carbon tetrachloride, and hydro cyanic acid than adults of Tribalism confusum but the reverse was true for methyl bromide. The insects were more susceptible to the fumigants at the higher temperatures.
A key characteristic of rheumatoid arthritis (RA), is the occurrence of antibodies against post-translationally modified proteins. Citrullination and anti-citrullinated protein antibodies (ACPAs) have been studied extensively.1 Carbamylation is another type of post-translational modification. During carbamylation, isocyanic acid reacts with the amine group of an amino acid. This mostly results in the conversion of lysine into homocitrulline.2 A subset of patients with RA harbour anticarbamylated protein (anti-CarP) antibodies and the presence of these antibodies is predictive of worse disease progression in ACPA-negative patients.3 Anti-CarP antibodies can be present in patients with arthralgia and their presence predicts the development of RA.4 ::: ::: A cornerstone of biomedical research is the use of animal models to explore basic pathophysiological mechanisms. Therefore, it is important to know whether antibodies against post-translationally modified proteins are present in these models. Although ACPAs were initially reported to be present in collagen-induced arthritis (CIA),5 ,6 this topic is now debated. Little is …
Selected ulofuranosides and ulopyranosides react with thiocyanic acid to give good yields of stable carbohydrate-fused hemiaminal 1,3-oxazolidine-2-thiones.
An adapted method for the quantitative determination of isocyanates in air was implemented and validated in-house. The method was based on air sampling using an impinger flask containing di-n-butylamine (DBA) in toluene and a glass fibre filter in series. The DBA derivatives were determined using liquid chromatography and tandem mass spectrometry. Studied isocyanates were isophorone diisocyanate, isocyanic acid (ICA), methyl isocyanate, ethyl isocyanate, propyl isocyanate, hexamethylene diisocyanate (HDI), 2,6- and 2,4-toluene diisocyanate, 4,4′-methylene diphenyl diisocyanate (MDI), phenyl isocyanate (PhI), MDI oligomers and different HDI adducts. Monitoring of selected reactions resulted in quantifications with correlation coefficients >0.995, within-batch relative standard deviation (RSD) of repeatability was 500 samples. © The Author 2008. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the British Occupational Hygiene Society.
The intramolecular cycloaddition of unactivated olefins to dihydroxypyrimidines is described. The primary bridged cycloadducts may be isolated and hydrolysed, the overall process resulting in functionalisation of the olefin. The nitrile derivative (18)[4-hydroxy-2-methyl-6-oxo-5-(3-cyanopropyl)-1,6-dihydropyrimidine] also undergoes cycloaddition, althought the primary adduct (19) is unstable and elimination of isocyanic acid occurs to form an annelated monohydroxypyrimidine (20). Olefins also react in an intramolecular fashion with monohydroxypyrimidines, the intermediate bicyclic adducts readily undergoing a subsequent retro-Alder reaction to yield annelated pyridines.
The delivery of amino acids to the early Earth by comets and their fragments could have been a significant source of the early Earth's prebiotic organic inventory that led to the emergence of life (Chyba and Sagan, 1992). Over 20 organic molecules including methane, ethane, ammonia, cyanic acid, formaldehyde, formamide, acetaldehyde, acetonitrile, and methanol have been identified by radio spectroscopic observations of the comae of comets Hale-Bopp and Hyakutake (Crovisier et al. 2004). These simple molecules could have provided the organic reservoir to allow the forn1ation of more complex prebiotic organic compounds such as amino acids. After a 7 -year mission, the Stardust spacecraft returned to Earth samples from comet Wild 2 on January 15, 2006 providing the opportunity to analyze the organic composition and isotopic distribution of cometary material with state-of-the-art laboratory instrun1entation. The Preliminary Examination Team analyses of organics in samples returned by Stardust were largely focused on particles that impacted the collector aerogel and aluminum foil (Sandford et al. 2006). However, it is also possible that Stardust returned a "diffuse" sample of gas-phase organic molecules that struck the aerogel directly or diffused away from the grains after impact. To test this possibility, samples of Stardust flight aerogel and foil were carried through a hot water extraction and acid hydrolysis procedure to see if primary amine compounds were present in excess of those seen in controls. Here we report highly sensitive liquid chromatography time-of-flight mass spectron1etry measurements of amino acids and amines in samples returned from a comet (Glavin et al. 2008). A suite of amino acids and amines including glycine, L-alanine, methylamine (MA), and ethylamine (EA) were identified in the Stardust bulk aerogel. With the exception of MA and EA, all other primary amines detected in comet-exposed aerogels were also present in the aerogel witness tile that was not exposed to Wild 2, suggesting that most amines are terrestrial in origin. However, the enhanced abundances of MA, EA, and possibly glycine in comet-exposed aerogel compared to controls, coupled with MA to EA ratios (1 to 2) that are distinct from preflight aerogels (7 to 10), suggest that these amines were captured from Wild 2. It is possible that MA and EA were formed on energetically processed icy grains containing methane, ethane, and ammonia. The presence of cometary amines in Stardust material supports the hypothesis that comets were an important source of pre biotic organics on the early Earth. To better understand their origin, a systematic compound specific carbon isotopic analysis (C-CSIA) via gas chromatography quadrupole mass spectrometry in with parallel with combustion isotope ratio mass spectrometry (GC-QMS/IRMS) is being conducted. We will discuss our latest C-CSIA measurements and what they indicate about the origin of amino acids extracted from Stardust samples.
The sequential product ion (MS(n)) fragmentation of four symmetric diamide derivatives of 3,4-ethylenedioxythiophene were characterized using ion trap mass spectrometry with electrospray ionization and their fragmentation patterns were studied. The experimental data consists of mass spectra obtained by tandem mass spectrometry, and calculations were obtained by the M06-2X/6-31 G (d,p) method. Investigated compounds represent building blocks in synthesis of compounds used in different areas of chemistry and industry such as in medicinal chemistry, as potential anticancer and anticonvulsant agents, in organic chemistry as linkers for solid-phase synthesis, and in the synthesis of a variety of materials in polymer chemistry. We present herein the investigation of the fragmentation pathway of protonated diamide derivatives of 3,4-ethylenedioxythiophene that involves the identification of fragments, influence of proton transfer on direction of fragmentation and mechanisms of reactions by which the fragmentation process occurs. Data obtained from product ion spectra of these protonated compounds and density functional theory (DFT) calculations indicate that the fragmentation process takes place via four main reactions: amido-iminol proton transfer, reverse cycloaddition, cleavage of the amide bond, and isocyanic acid elimination. The 3,4-ethylenedioxythiophene-2,5-dicarboxamide was observed as an intermediate in the fragmentation of its alkyl derivatives. To our knowledge, this work brings the first correct description of the mechanism of elimination of isocyanic acid.
In central Brazil after soybean or other annual agricultural species is harvested, sorghum hybrids are planted in the fall in order to establish pastures for grazing animals. This study conducted for two consecutive years aimed at quantifying the contents of hydrocyanic acid in the leaves and determining plant height, forage dry matter yield and the leaf/stem ratio for sorghum hybrid 1P400 at different ages. Statistical analysis was performed by regression analysis based on plant age. Leaf HCN content decreased with plant growth, ranging from 205.0 and 230.3 mg HCN/100 g leaf DM at two weeks old to 5.9 and 6.1 mg HCN/100 g leaf DM at five weeks old in the first and second year, respectively. The average heights measured varied from 60 and 56 cm, in the 4 th week, to 117 and 151 cm, in the 8 th week, during the first and second experimental year, respectively. Forage mass increased linearly with age and displayed average of 1.411 and 1.637 kg DM/ha in the first year and, 2.905 and 3.640 kg DM/ha in the second year, during the 7 th and 8 th week, respectively. Leaf proportion decreased while stem increased linearly with plant age. The leaf/stem ratio decreased with plant growth, elongation and increasing stem weight. The sorghum hybrid should be grazed only after five weeks or when the plant height is above 80 cm, in order to avoid the risk of cyanide poisoning.
Cassava (Manihot esculenta Crantz), which is a crop that is very tolerant to drought and heat stress produces well on marginal soils (Alves, 2002; Calle et al., 2005; Dixon et al., 2008) and serves as a staple food crop in South-eastern Nigeria. Cultivars of cassava are generally classified as bitter (high-) or sweet (low-) cyanide depending on the level of the two cynogenic glucosides (CG) (linamarin, which accounts for 80 % of CG and lotaustralin) present in the plant parts (Siritunga and Sayre, 2003) ; such that on enzymatic hydrolysis they release cyanohydrin and free-hydrocyanic acid (HCN) (Cardoso et al., 2005; Njoku and Ano, 2018) .
An adapted method for the quantitative determination of isocyanates in air was implemented and validated in-house. The method was based on air sampling using an impinger flask containing di-n-butylamine (DBA) in toluene and a glass fibre filter in series. The DBA derivatives were determined using liquid chromatography and tandem mass spectrometry. Studied isocyanates were isophorone diisocyanate, isocyanic acid (ICA), methyl isocyanate, ethyl isocyanate, propyl isocyanate, hexamethylene diisocyanate (HDI), 2,6-and 2,4-toluene diisocyanate, 4,49-methylene diphenyl diisocyanate (MDI), phenyl isocyanate (PhI), MDI oligomers and different HDI adducts. Monitoring of selected reactions resulted in quantifications with correlation coefficients >0.995, within-batch relative standard deviation (RSD) of repeatability was <13% for all analytes. Between-batch RSD (reproducibility) was determined for all the compounds with the exception of the adducts and oligomers and was also <13%. As an additional validation procedure, the method was evaluated by exchanging field (air) and standard samples between two laboratories. The RSDs observed by the two laboratories were comparable. The concentrations determined were between 80 and 120% of each other, depending on the analyte and the individual concentrations. The method was applied in a large field study on exposure of workers in car repair shops and industrial painters with >500 samples.
The mechanisms of the title reactions between 1-aza-2-azoniaallene cations and isocyanic acid or isocyanates have been theoretically explored at the B3LYP/6-31++G** level. It was found that all of these reactions proceed in asynchronous but concerted pathways. The substituent effects are also obvious; e.g., the presence either of an electron-withdrawing chlorine substituent on the 1-aza-2-azoniaallene cation or of an electron-releasing methyl substituent on the isocyanate both favor the cycloaddition reactions. For the [1,2]-shift reactions, all the substituents lower their activation barrier, especially Cl substituents on the 1-aza-2-azoniaallene cation, but when Cl substituents are present on the 1-aza-2-azoniaallene cation the rearrangement product is not as stable as others. In addition, solvent effects with the PCM model are also reported, and a model reaction has been investigated at the MP2/6-31+G* and QCISD/6-31+G* levels as well as by DFT. (© Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, 69451 Weinheim, Germany, 2004)
The surface chemistry of isocyanate, NCO, and its precursor, isocyanic acid, HNCO, on Pt(111) was studied with the techniques of reflection absorption infrared spectroscopy (RAIRS) and temperature-programmed desorption (TPD). Isocyanate is known to form on platinum-group metals in the course of the catalytic reduction of NO by carbon-containing molecules, such as CO or simple hydrocarbons. It is therefore important to establish its stability and reaction chemistry on well-characterized platinum surfaces. Exposure of the Pt(111) surface at 90 K to isocyanic acid leads to both molecularly adsorbed HNCO, as well as its dissociation products, H and NCO. At 90 K and low coverages, molecularly adsorbed HNCO exhibits peaks at 1338, 2227, and 3357 cm−1 due to the NCO symmetric stretch, the NCO asymmetric stretch, and the NH stretch, respectively. Isocyanate has a markedly lower asymmetric NCO stretch of 2113 cm−1 at low coverages, which shifts to higher values at higher coverages. The decomposition of HNCO is lar...
A study was conducted to evaluate the sensory properties of meat obtained from broilers fed different levels of Cassava Flour Meal (CFM). Cassava Flour Meal was used to substitute maize at 0, 20 and 40% level. It was discovered that the weekly intake of 75.96mg /100g and 225.31mg/100g of Hydrocyanic Acid (HCN) significantly (p<0.05) led to an increase in cooking losses and a corresponding decrease in the cooking yield of meat obtained from birds fed HCN. The intake of HCN also affected (p<0.05) tenderness, juiciness and palatability in birds fed cassava flour meal based diets. It was concluded that the intake of HCN had a negative effect on the sensory parameters measured and that this effect is most felt in birds fed above 124.23 mg /100g of HCN.
Two procedures for determining the maximum specific growth rate of nitrifying bacteria in the presence of inhibitors were evaluated. One procedure uses a population of nitrifying bacteria and a short-term (6-hour) batch assay to determine the impact of the test wastewater on the maximum specific growth rate of the nitrifiers. The difference in the specific nitrification rate for the subject population between a control and the test wastewater quantifies the effect of the constituents in the test wastewater on the nitrifier maximum specific growth rate. The second procedure uses batch fill-and-draw bioreactors operated under steady-state conditions to determine the minimum mean cell residence time for growth of the nitrifiers. The need to assess nitrification inhibition at two large municipal wastewater treatment plants provided the opportunity to evaluate these two procedures. Incineration of biosolids is practiced at both of these plants, and it was shown that in-plant recycle of the multiple-hearth flue-gas scrubber water can be inhibitory to nitrification. Results from extensive testing indicated that hydrocyanic acid (HCN), present in the scrubber water, is the probable inhibitor. Consistent results were obtained at both plants. They indicated that HCN concentrations on the order of 0.1 to 0.2 mg/L resulted in a reductionmore » in the nitrifier maximum specific growth rate of approximately 50%. Treatment methods were evaluated at each plant and implemented. At one plant, aerobic biological treatment of the incinerator sidestream is being practiced. At the other facility, cyanide is thermally destroyed in afterburners before contact with the wet scrubbing system.« less
The cycloaddition reaction of acetone t-butylhydrazone (6) with cyanic acid yielded the 1,2,4-triazolidin-3-one 1c, subsequent oxidative ring-opening afforded the t-butylazoalkyl isocyanate 3c. Derivatization of the isocyanate function of 3c furnished the carbamic acid derivatives 7-10. Reactions involving both geminal functional groups of 3c led to the heterocycles 11, 12, and the title compound 4c; some properties and reactions of the triazolium salt 4c are described
Abstract The molecular structure, vibrational spectra, tautomerism and photochemistry of the derivative of tetrazole, 1-phenyl-tetrazolone (C 7 H 6 N 4 O; PT) have been studied by FT-IR matrix isolation spectroscopy and DFT/B3LYP/6-311++G(d,p) calculations. Among the five structures in which PT could be expected to exist (two keto tautomers, one mesoionic olate-form and two different conformers of the hydroxyl tautomer), only the most stable species, 1-phenyl-1,4-dihydro-5 H -tetrazol-5-one, could be experimentally observed in low temperature argon matrices. Monomers of this tautomer give rise to an IR spectrum that fits nicely the calculated spectrum obtained at the DFT/B3LYP/6-311++G(d,p) level of theory. In situ UV irradiation ( λ > 235 nm) of the matrix-isolated PT induces three main photochemical processes, all of them involving cleavage of the tetrazole ring: e.g. (1) molecular nitrogen loss, with production of 1-phenyl-diaziridin-3-one; this compound reacts subsequently to form 1-aza-1,2,4,6-cycloheptatetraene and isocyanic acid (eventually, also to form CO plus phenyldiazene); (2) cleavage of the C (5) –N (1) and N (3) –N (4) tetrazole-ring bonds, with production of phenylazide and isocyanic acid, with phenylazide then losing N 2 to yield as final product 1-aza-1,2,4,6-cycloheptatetraene; and (3) cleavage of the N (1) –N (2) and N (4) –C (5) tetrazole-ring bonds, to yield phenylisocyanate and azide. The observed photochemical processes are distinct from the preferred thermal fragmentation channel, where CO is produced together with a weak IR absorbant species.
This paper gives the brief introduction of the property and usage of EDTA. It is analyzed the domestic and exotic situation of its manufacture and consumption. The paper also describe the manufacture process of EDTA in three different methods, that is 1) the Chloroactic Acid Method: chloroactic acid and sodium carbonate as the raw material; 2) Hydrocyanic Acid Method: Ethylene diamine, hydrocyanic acid and formaldehyde as the raw material; 3) Sodium Cyanide Method: Ethylene diamine, Ethylene diamine and formaldehyde as the raw material. The emphasis is put on the process description of sodium cyanide method to produce EDTA, and the advantage and disadvantage of each process method.
Model combustions are performed in order to simulate a real fire situation. The model used, however, and parameters chosen have a considerable impact on combustion products formed and on their amounts. Formation of hydrocyanic acid from nitrogen-containing molecules was studied. For combustion, the VCI-apparatus (Heraeus) was used. The substances a) linuron, b) triazophos (70% formulation) and c) sheep wool contained 10 to 15% nitrogen. At temperatures of 600 and 950°C, portions in the range of 0.4 to 25 mg were combusted. Formation of aromatic compounds at 950°C was studied for triazophos (70% formulation) and 2-ethylhexyl-thioglycolate.
The usefulness of a glass fibre filter method to collect airborne methyl isocyanate (MIC) was studied in laboratory experiments and in a workplace during manufacture of mineral wool insulation material. Filter collection was based on derivatisation in situ with 1-(2-methoxyphenyl)piperazine (2MP). 2MP impinger sampling was also evaluated in the workplace. Impinger sampling with dibutylamine (DBA) was used as an independent method. The samples were analysed by liquid and gas chromatography using various detection techniques: mass spectrometry, ultraviolet and electrochemical detection (LC-MS, LC-UV, LC-EchD and GC-MS). The sampling efficiency of 2MP filters for MIC varied with the origin of the glass fibre filter. Two Whatman filters (diameter 25 mm) with altogether 21 mumol of 2MP collected 100% of 9.8 micrograms of MIC during 30 min at an airflow rate of 1 l min-1. The workplace measurements were performed at two concentration levels, 0.003 and 0.09 mg m-3. The theoretical amounts of derivatisation reagent were 42 mumol (2MP filter), 52 mumol (2MP impinger) and 100 mumol (DBA). MIC concentrations were 20% lower by the 2MP methods compared with the DBA method (statistically significant difference). Breakthrough was 6% for the DBA method and 9% for the 2MP impinger method. To trap both MIC and isocyanic acid, which was also present in the workplace samples, a tenfold molar amount of 2MP reagent was used. The precision of sample preparation, expressed as relative standard deviation, was 3.5% (0.17 microgram ml-1, n = 6). The precision of sampling in the workplace was 15% (0.002 mg m-3, n = 6). The limit of quantification was 0.0006 mg m-3 for 30 l of air by the 2MP impinger method and 0.03-0.05 mg m-3 by the 2MP filter method. Hence, airborne MIC can be determined using 2MP as derivatisation reagent. Impinger sampling is preferable when low concentration levels are expected.
Abstract 1. 1. Collagen was benzoylated with benzoyl chloride or benzoic anhydride under several conditions. The maximum amount of benzoyl groups introduced was only 0.7 mmoles/g. collagen. 2. 2. It has been shown that the benzoyl groups are attached to the amino and guanidino groups of collagen. 3. 3. Methods for quantitative as well as for selective acetylation of collagen were developed. The quantitative acetylation of all the amino and hydroxyl groups of collagen was effected. The maximum amount of acetyl groups introduced was 2.1 mmoles/g. collagen. 4. 4. About 50% of the hydroxyl groups of collagen were acetylated selectively without materially affecting the amino groups by means of acetic anhydride in the presence of thiocyanic acid. 5. 5. All the free amino groups and only a small portion of the hydroxyl groups were involved in the acetylation of collagen with acetyl pyridinium chloride. 6. 6. The transesterification method for the quantitative estimation of total acetyl groups was standardized. 7. 7. About 70% of arginine and about 17% of histidine in collagen were destroyed by treatment with sodium hypobromite.
Purging nut (Jatropha curcas) is a perennial shrub belonging to the family Euphorbiaceae. This plant is used in traditional folk medicine and in Homeopathy for many ailments. Despite its purported medicinal properties, the whole plant is toxic and the toxicity is mainly due to the presence of toxalbumins curcin, ricin and cyanic acid. The fruit of the plant is attractive and resembles cashew fruit. The kernel of the seed is palatable and tastes like almond but is highly toxic. Because of these reasons accidental Jatropha curcas poisoning is not uncommon in children. An accidental poisoning in a two-year old child is briefly reviewed here.
The camphor scale,Pseudaollidia duplex (Ckll.),was first recognized as a pest in the United States in 1920, when it was found severely infesting camphor-tree, common camellia, sweet olive, and a number of other plants in New Orleans. It was doubtlessly introduced directly from Japan at this point and at Mobile, Alabama, and Alvin, Texas, on ornamental and citrus nursery stock. It has also been seen a number of times elsewhere on plants consigned for entry into the United States from Japan. ::: ::: This scale has been found on approximately 150 different species of plants in numerous places in Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, and Texas; but it has now been eradicated in Mississippi. Of these hosts, camphor-tree, Japanese persimmon, sweet olive, common camellia, Satsuma orange, rose, Japanese honeysuckle, common fig, confederate jasmine, and glossy privet seem to be the most preferred. While the susceptibility of the different hosts is quite variable, the scale seems to cause the most injury to Japanese persimmon, camphor-tree, sweet olive, Satsuma orange, common camellia, certain roses, and Japanese honeysuckle, all of which are seriously disfigured, or partiaIly killed, by prolonged attack. ::: ::: The presence of the camphor scale in the Alabama citrus district makes it very important from a commercial standpoint. Here it ranks with the purple scale in its ability to spot the fruits about the time they ripen and thus to reduce considerably their market value. ::: ::: The camphor scale seems to be well controlled by most oil sprays. It is recommended that all heavily infested trees except citrus and very tender plants be pruned and then sprayed once in the fall and again in the early spring with a heavy lubricating oil emulsion so diluted as to contain 2% of oil. Citrus and other tender plants in some of the Gulf states should receive the same treatment but light lubricating oil emulsion should be used, so as to avoid as much as possible the risk of spray injury. Two additional “summer” applications are sometimes recommended using 1% heavy oil emulsion for the more resistant plants and 1% light oil emulsion for stich as citrus and other tender plants. The first of these applications should be made about May 15 and the second about July 30 to control the immature scales of the first and second broods, respectively. ::: ::: If fumigation with hydrocyanic acid gas is employed, ¾ oz. av. of sodium cyanide in 2½ fl. oz. of water and 1⅛ fl. oz. of sulphuric acid should be used for each 1000 cu. ft. of space at an exposure of 1 hour when the temperature is 80°F. or above. When the temperature is below 80°F., 1 oz. av. of sodium cyanide in 3 fl. oz. water and 1½ fl. oz. of sulphuric acid should be used for this space at the same exposure.
Abstract Thermal stability of thiourea determines its successful application in electronic devices. For this reason, the primitive reactions in thiourea decomposition have been studied using HF, MP2 and DFT methods at various basis sets. Under thermal condition, thiourea isomerizes to carbamimidothioic acid via a hydrogen shift from an amino group to the nearby sulfur atom. This carbamimidothioic acid can then isomerize to its isomers. From carbamimidothioic acid intermediates, a total of four pairs of products can be generated from the studied primitive reactions, including: ammonia and isothiocyanic acid (NH 3 + HNCS), hydrogen sulfide and carbodiimide (H 2 S + HN C NH), hydrogen sulfide and cyanoamine (H 2 S + NH 2 CN), and ammonia and thiocyanic acid (NH 3 + HSCN). However, computational results show that product pairs of NH 3 + HNCS and H 2 S + HN C NH can be easily formed, whilst the formation of the other two product pairs are much less competitive due to their high activation energies. In addition, the calculated data can explain the reported results from thermal decomposition of thiourea and thiourea complexes.
Post-harvest losses are recognized to be one of the critical constraints upon food security among farmers of poor resource in Africa.The use of botanical pesticides in pest management during storage against insects is often encouraged because synthetic insecticides produce multiple side-effects on human health and environment. Insecticidal activity of the hexane, dichloromethane, ethyl acetate and methanol extracts of bark of Trichilia gilgiana was tested on Sitophilus zeamais, Tribolium castaneum and Rhyzopertha dominica. The mortality rate was measured variable. The results of analysis showed that the mortality rate has a very highly significant variation following extracts, doses, insects and time considered (P < 0.001). Extracts with ethyl acetate and hexane of Trichilia gilgiana are effective against S. zeamais at the highest doses (1 g/ 10 mL and 0.5 g/10 mL of solvent). These effective extracts were characterized by gas chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry. Molecules such as 2-Oxazalidone; thiocyanic acid; Methanethioamide, N,N-dimethyl; 2-Coumaranone and other were characterizated. These results may consolidate traditional use of Trichilia gilgiana in pest management.
The invention belongs to the field of cephalosporin antibiotic medicaments, and in particular relates to a method for synthesizing 7-phenylacetylamino-3-chloromethyl cephalosporin alkyl acid p-methoxybenzyl ester (GCLE). The technical proposal is that the method comprises the following steps: reacting penicillin sulfoxide ester with ammonium benzene sulfinate and 2-mercaptobenzothiazole in dichloromethane, and steaming out a solvent at normal pressure to generate aza-cyclobutanone thiosulfinate intermediate; adding dichloromethane to the intermediate after cooling, stirring and introducing saturated brine ice for cooling, adding trichloro isocyanic acid for reaction so as to generate an allylic chlorination product of the aza-cyclobutanone thiosulfinate; and reducing the pressure and drying the allylic chlorination product by distillation, adding dimethyl formamide to the product, stirring and introducing saturated brine ice for cooling, adding ammonia for reaction, adding water and dichloromethane to the mixture, mixing and stirring the mixture, standing for layering, transferring a dichloromethane layer at the bottom layer to another reactor, and steaming out the solvent at the normal pressure to obtain a dry product which is the GCLE. The method has the advantages of mild reaction condition, few reaction steps, simple operation, short production cycle, and improved production efficiency.
Carbamylation corresponds to the non-enzymatic binding of isocyanic acid, mainly derived from urea decomposition, on amino groups of proteins, and participates in their molecular aging. This process is increased during chronic kidney disease (CKD) because of hyperuremia, and in other pathologies like atherosclerosis, where isocyanic may be formed from thiocyanate by myeloperoxidase in atheroma plates. Carbamylation triggers structural and functional modifications of proteins, thus impairing their biological roles and their interactions with cells. Much experimental evidence in vitro has shown the potential deleterious effects of carbamylated proteins on cell and tissue functions. Carbamylation-derived products (CDPs), and especially their major component homocitrulline, accumulate in organism in long half-life proteins, and may participate in the development of different complications of CKD, especially cardiovascular diseases, renal fibrosis, or nutritional and metabolic troubles. Recent clinical studies have confirmed the link between serum protein carbamylation and morbi-mortality in patients suffering from CKD or undergoing hemodialysis. Some CDPs could be used as biomarkers in these pathologies.
Citrullination is a posttranslational modification of arginine catalyzed by five peptidylarginine deiminases (PADs) in humans. The loss of a positive charge may cause structural or functional alterations, and while the modification has been linked to several diseases, including rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and cancer, its physiological or pathophysiological roles remain largely unclear. In part, this is owing to limitations in available methodology to robustly enrich, detect, and localize the modification. As a result, only a few citrullination sites have been identified on human proteins with high confidence. In this study, we mined data from mass-spectrometry-based deep proteomic profiling of 30 human tissues to identify citrullination sites on endogenous proteins. Database searching of ∼70 million tandem mass spectra yielded ∼13,000 candidate spectra, which were further triaged by spectrum quality metrics and the detection of the specific neutral loss of isocyanic acid from citrullinated peptides to reduce false positives. Because citrullination is easily confused with deamidation, we synthetized ∼2,200 citrullinated and 1,300 deamidated peptides to build a library of reference spectra. This led to the validation of 375 citrullination sites on 209 human proteins. Further analysis showed that >80% of the identified modifications sites were new, and for 56% of the proteins, citrullination was detected for the first time. Sequence motif analysis revealed a strong preference for Asp and Gly, residues around the citrullination site. Interestingly, while the modification was detected in 26 human tissues with the highest levels found in the brain and lung, citrullination levels did not correlate well with protein expression of the PAD enzymes. Even though the current work represents the largest survey of protein citrullination to date, the modification was mostly detected on high abundant proteins, arguing that the development of specific enrichment methods would be required in order to study the full extent of cellular protein citrullination.
The molecular structure, vibrational spectra, tautomerism and photochemistry of the derivative of tetrazole, 1-phenyl-tetrazolone (C 7 H 6 N 4 O; PT) have been studied by FT-IR matrix isolation spectroscopy and DFT/B3LYP/6-311++G(d,p) calculations. Among the five structures in which PT could be expected to exist (two keto tautomers, one mesoionic olate-form and two different conformers of the hydroxyl tautomer), only the most stable species, 1-phenyl-1,4-dihydro-5H-tetrazol-5-one, could be experimentally observed in low temperature argon matrices. Monomers of this tautomer give rise to an IR spectrum that fits nicely the calculated spectrum obtained at the DFT/B3LYP/6-311++G(d,p) level of theory. In situ UV irradiation (λ > 235 nm) of the matrix-isolated PT induces three main photochemical processes, all of them involving cleavage of the tetrazole ring: e.g. (1) molecular nitrogen loss, with production of 1-phenyl-diaziridin-3-one; this compound reacts subsequently to form 1-aza-1,2,4,6cycloheptatetraene and isocyanic acid (eventually, also to form CO plus phenyldiazene); (2) cleavage of the C (5) -N (1) and N (3) -N (4) tetrazole-ring bonds, with production of phenylazide and isocyanic acid, with phenylazide then losing N 2 to yield as final product 1-aza-1,2,4,6-cycloheptatetraene; and (3) cleavage of the N (1) -N (2) and N (4) -C (5) tetrazole-ring bonds, to yield phenylisocyanate and azide. The observed photochemical processes are distinct from the preferred thermal fragmentation channel, where CO is produced together with a weak IR absorbant species.
In this work, the structure, vibrational properties and photochemistry (λ > 235 nm) of 1-phenyl-tetrazolone have been studied, for the compound isolated in solid argon. It was found that only one tautomer of this molecule (1-phenyl-1,4-dihydro-5Htetrazol-5-one) contributes to the spectrum of the as-deposited matrix, indicating that, in the gaseous phase, only this tautomer exists. After UV irradiation of the matrix, three different pathways could be identified, all of them corresponding to cleavage of the tetrazole ring. The identification of the photoproducts was carried out taking into account both the DFT/B3LYP/6-311++G(d,p) calculated spectra for different putative products and the available literature data on those compounds. The following primary photoproducts could be identified in the matrices after irradiation: Pathway 1: two conformers of 1-phenyl-diaziridin-3-one; Pathway 2: phenylazide and isocyanic acid; Pathway 3: azide and phenylisocyanate. Secondary products resulting from Pathways 1 and 2 could also be identified. These are: 1-aza-1,2,4,6-cycloheptatetraene and associated carbon monoxide. The additional production of cyanic acid and phenyl cyanate by isomerization of isocyanic acid and phenylisocyanate looks improbable under the experimental conditions used. The observed photochemical processes are distinct from the preferred thermal fragmentation channel, where CO is produced together with a weak IR absorbant species, with all probability phenyldiazene (with 1-phenyl-1,2-dihydrotetrazete as possible intermediate).
Post-harvest losses are recognized to be one of the critical constraints upon food security among farmers of poor resource in Africa.The use of botanical pesticides in pest management during storage against insects is often encouraged because synthetic insecticides produce multiple side-effects on human health and environment. Insecticidal activity of the hexane, dichloromethane, ethyl acetate and methanol extracts of bark of Trichilia gilgiana was tested on Sitophilus zeamaïs, Tribolium castaneum and Rhyzopertha dominica. The mortality rate was measured variable. The results of analysis showed that the mortality rate has a very highly significant variation following extracts, doses, insects and time considered (P < 0.001). Extracts with ethyl acetate and hexane of Trichilia gilgiana are effective against S. zeamais at the highest doses (1 g/ 10 mL and 0.5 g/10 mL of solvent). These effective extracts were characterized by gas chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry. Molecules such as 2-Oxazalidone; thiocyanic acid; Methanethioamide, N,N-dimethyl; 2-Coumaranone and other were characterizated. These results may consolidate traditional use of Trichilia gilgiana in pest management.
This invention relates to a catalyst assembly comprising an agglomeration or assemblage of randomly oriented fibers. The fibers are made of a platinum group metal or an alloy containing at least one platinum group metal or gold or silver This catalyst assembly is used for the catalytic oxidation of ammonia in the manufacture, for example nitric acid and for the production of hydrocyanic acid by the method of Andrassow.
The thermal decomposition of nitrourea in the solid phase proceeds with a pronounced self-acceleration, the maximum reaction rate being reached at extremely high extents of conversion. A significant increase in the specific surface is simultaneously observed: the specific surface increases 33-fold by the time when the maximum reaction rate is reached, and the mean particle size becomes equal to 230 A. In a closed system an increase in the pressure of the gas evolved is followed by an abrupt decrease. A mechanism for the process, in which an intermediate, isocyanic acid, and the heterogeneous character of the reaction play the key role is proposed on the basis of kinetic measurements and data on the composition of the decomposition products.
xynitrilases (also known as hydroxynitrile lyasesor Hnls) are enzymes that catalyse the reversibleformation of cyanohydrins using HCN and alde-hydes or ketones (Fig. 1). One of the earliest reportson biocatalysis involved the use of an Hnl: the synthe-sis of mandelonitrile from benzaldehyde and hydro-cyanic acid using a crude enzyme preparation obtainedfrom almonds (termed emulsin)
Introduction.- Molecular Systems: Translation and Rotation of Nuclear Ensembles Configuration Space Engery Function A Modified Energy Function.- Reaction Path Concept.- A Mechanical String Model of Chemical Reactions: Molecular Dynamics A Model of Chemical Reactions Equilibrial Reaction Paths Summary.- Equilibrial Path Tracing: A Predictor-Corrector Method Update Methods Steplength Determination A Path Tracing Procedure.- Applications: Hydrocyanic Acid PES Formaldehyde PES Formic Acid PES.
Abstract. A mobile laboratory equipped with state-of-the-art gaseous and particulate ::: instrumentation was deployed across the Greater Toronto Area (GTA) during two ::: seasons. A high-resolution time-of-flight chemical ionization mass spectrometer (HR-TOF-CIMS) ::: measured isocyanic acid (HNCO) and hydrogen cyanide (HCN), and a ::: high-sensitivity laser-induced incandescence (HS-LII) instrument measured ::: black carbon (BC). Results indicate that on-road vehicles are a clear source ::: of HNCO and HCN and that their impact is more pronounced in the winter, when ::: influences from biomass burning (BB) and secondary photochemistry are weakest. ::: Plume-based and time-based algorithms were developed to calculate ::: fleet-average vehicle emission factors (EFs); the algorithms were found to ::: yield comparable results, depending on the pollutant identity. With respect ::: to literature EFs for benzene, toluene, C2 benzene (sum of m-, p-, and o-xylenes and ::: ethylbenzene), nitrogen oxides, particle number concentration (PN), and black ::: carbon, the calculated EFs were characteristic of a relatively clean vehicle ::: fleet dominated by light-duty vehicles (LDV). Our fleet-average EF for BC (median: ::: 25 mg kg fuel - 1 ; interquartile range, IQR: ::: 10–76 mg kg fuel - 1 ) suggests that overall vehicular ::: emissions of BC have decreased over time. However, the distribution of EFs ::: indicates that a small proportion of high-emitters continue to contribute ::: disproportionately to total BC emissions. We report the first fleet-average ::: EF for HNCO (median: 2.3 mg kg fuel - 1 , IQR: ::: 1.4–4.2 mg kg fuel - 1 ) and HCN (median: ::: 0.52 mg kg fuel - 1 , IQR: ::: 0.32–0.88 mg kg fuel - 1 ). The distribution of the estimated ::: EFs provides insight into the real-world variability of HNCO and HCN ::: emissions and constrains the wide range of literature EFs obtained from ::: prior dynamometer studies. The impact of vehicle emissions on urban HNCO ::: levels can be expected to be further enhanced if secondary HNCO formation ::: from vehicle exhaust is considered.
The theoretical thermodynamic stability was calculated for products of cycloaddition of vinylimine to ketene and isocyanic acid to allene by using the MP2, DFT(B3PW91), and HF methods involving the 6-311++G** basis set. These cycloaddition reactions could yield fourteen different molecules; practically however, free Gibbs energies calculated for the considered molecules suggest that only 4- and 3-methylene-β-lactams can be formed in observable amounts. For these particular isomers the heats of formation, geometry, rotational constants, harmonic vibrational frequencies, infrared intensities, Raman activities, depolarisation ratios, and 1H, 13C, 17O and 15N NMR spectra were evaluated and discussed. The PED analysis carried out for theoretical IR spectra allowed us to assign vibrations of the two isomers. The IR and NMR assignments form a basis for the elucidation of future experimental data.
Abstract Data on the extraction of isothiocyanic acid, and the co-extraction of water, by several high-molecular-weight extractants, viz. three amines, a substituted quaternary ammonium salt, a tertiary amine oxide, a tertiary phosphine oxide and a phosphate ester are reported. The extraction constants decrease in the order Primene > Amberlite > Alamine ≫ TOPO > TBP. As for AlamO, evidence is presented that 2AlamO·HNCS is formed besides the normal adduct AlamO·HNCS. With all the extractants, except the phosphate ester, the isothiocyanate adducts have a nearly pure ion-pair structure. The majority of the extractants easily take up isothiocyanic acid in excess of the stoichiometric amount. The extraction constants decreas in the order Aliquat>Alamine>AlamO>Amberlite>TOPO>Primene>TBP.
Complementary factors are encountered so frequently in genetic studies that they need not be considered as novelties by themselves unless they have some bearing on other problems. Since the discovery by Bateson (1907) of such interactions in peas, the work of Atwood and Sullivan (1943) on hydrocyanic acid production provides a clear-cut demonstration of the physiology of action of complementary factors.
A diffusive sampling method for the determination of low-molecular isocyanates as their 4-nitro-7-piperazinobenzo-2-oxa-1,3-diazole (NBDPZ) derivatives using tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) after atmospheric pressure chemical ionisation (APCI) is presented. Isocyanic acid (ICA), methyl isocyanate (MIC), ethyl isocyanate (EIC) and phenyl isocyanate (PhIC) are collected on NBDPZ-impregnated polystyrene divinyl benzene (SDB) filter tapes. The method was validated for MIC, EIC and PhIC for concentrations between 0.5 and 50 ppb at relative humidity (RH) conditions from 10 up to 90%. Validation was carried out by active sampling using 1-(2-methoxyphenyl)piperazine (2-MP) as derivatising agent. Sampling periods applied were between 15 min and more than 8 h. The sampling rates were determined to be 21.0 mL/min for MIC with a relative standard deviation (RSD) of 9.0% for 184 samplers, 15.6 mL/min for EIC (RSD 11.6%; N = 154) and 11.5 mL/min for PhIC (RSD 8.4%; N = 87). The limits of quantification were 1.4 ppb for MIC and 1.3 ppb for EIC and PhIC applying 15 min sampling periods. Owing to high background signals, isocyanic acid could only be determined when it was present in concentrations in the high ppb range
The present investigation was aimed to study the effect of detoxification on the nutrients and antinutrients of wild apricot kernel followed by its hypocholesterolemic effect in male Wistar albino rats. The results revealed a non-significant (p > 0.05) effect of detoxification on the proximate composition except total carbohydrates and protein content. However, detoxification led to a significant (p < 0.05) decrease in L-ascorbic acid (76.82%), β-carotene (25.90%), dietary fiber constituents (10.51–28.92%), minerals (4.76–31.08%) and antinutritional factors (23.92–77.05%) (phenolics, tannins, trypsin inhibitor activity, saponins, phytic acid, alkaloids, flavonoids, oxalates) along with the complete removal (100%) of bitter and potentially toxic hydrocyanic acid (HCN). The quality parameters of kernel oil indicated no adverse effects of detoxification on free fatty acids, lipase activity, acid value and peroxide value, which remained well below the maximum permissible limit. Blood lipid profile demonstrated that the detoxified apricot kernel group exhibited significantly (p < 0.05) increased levels of HDL-cholesterol (48.79%) and triglycerides (15.09%), and decreased levels of total blood cholesterol (6.99%), LDL-C (22.95%) and VLDL-C (7.90%) compared to that of the raw (untreated) kernel group. Overall, it can be concluded that wild apricot kernel flour could be detoxified efficiently by employing a simple, safe, domestic and cost-effective method, which further has the potential for formulating protein supplements and value-added food products.
``Thiocyanic acid'' in the vapor state has been found to be at least 95 percent HNCS. From an analysis of the microwave rotational spectrum the following bond distances and bond angle were determined rH–N=1.01A (assumed), rN–C=1.218A, rC–S=1.557A, H–N–C angle 136°. Analysis of the Stark spectrum indicates that the component of dipole moment along the molecular figure axis is 1.72 D. Stark components from transitions forbidden in the zero‐field spectrum have been observed.
Molecular orbital spectral predictions suggest that 2,5,7,10,12,15,17,20-octaaza-21H, 23H-porphine has a visible spectral range closely matching that of chlorophyll-a. Since the octaazaporphine is, in its core, a simple derivative of an (HCN)12 oligomer, this fact, together with its spectral properties, would suggest that it occupies a high rank as a primordial porphinic solar energy transducer for photochemistry essential to life's formation. The demonstration that the mass 324 hexahydrooctaazaporphine is formed in protic media by the cyclotetramerization of imidazol-4-aminohydroxonium ion or the derived nitrenium ion, and that a mass 318 species consonant with that of the Hückel aromatic octaazaporphine is observed in the course of these studies, strongly supports the proposed octaazaporphine synthesis in a prebiotic hydrocyanic acid milieu.
Trifluralin and acetochlor are two nitrogen-containing current use herbicides. While both herbicides have been observed in the atmosphere and have the potential to undergo atmospheric oxidation before deposition to off-target areas, the atmospheric photooxidation chemistry of these species is poorly understood. We use an oxidative flow reactor to expose the two herbicides to increasing concentrations of OH radicals, detecting pesticides and products using an iodide chemical ionization mass spectrometer. We identify new oxidation products and propose photooxidation mechanisms for trifluralin and acetochlor. Both herbicides contain reduced organic nitrogen atoms, and their OH oxidation produces isocyanic acid. While aerosol was observed in the flow reactor only for acetochlor, our results indicate that OH oxidation of neither herbicide would contribute to secondary organic aerosol formation under typical ambient atmospheric conditions. However, high wall losses of both pesticides in the flow reactor suggests that partitioning to pre-existing aerosol may occur and enable subsequent transport in the atmosphere.
Abstract 1. 1. Cyanic acid can be distilled from aqueous solutions of pure sodium cyanate, when brought to pH 5.0–5.3 in a high vacuum. 2. 2. Without special arrangements for condensation, the acid undergoes rapid and complete decomposition in a neutral aqueous medium, even at 0°. 3. 3. If the free acid was condensed in 0.1–0.2 N -sodium hydroxide at 0°, varying amounts were transformed into the more stable sodium cyanate. 4. 4. Sodium cyanate present in the distillate was converted into urea by incubating with an excess of ammonium ions. Yields of 30–37% of the equivalent urea were regularly obtained from distillations under optimal conditions. 5. 5. A part of the cyanic acid was hydrolysed during the procedure, yielding one molecule of ammonia, which, with another molecule of cyanic acid gave one molecule of urea. Thus some urea was found, in the distillate without previous incubation with ammonium ions. 6. 6. Optimal conditions for the procedure are described.
The photodissociation of isocyanic acid (HNCO) on the first excited singlet state following the excitation at 210 nm was investigated with an ion velocity slice imaging technique by probing the CO fragment. It was found from the (2+1) resonance-enhanced multi-photon ionization (REMPI) spectrum that the CO fragments are rotationally hot with population up to Jmax=50. The velocity imagings of the CO fragments at JCO=30 and 35 indicate that formation of NH(a1Δ)+CO(X1Σ+, v=0) is the predominant dissociation channel at 210 nm. From analysis of the CO fragment translational energy distributions, the NH(a1Δ) fragment was observed to be rotationally cold, about half of the available energy was partitioned into the translational motion of fragments after dissociation, and the NH(a1Δ)+CO(X1Σ+) dissociation threshold was determined at 42738±30 cm−1. From analysis of the CO fragment angular distributions, the dissociation anisotropy parameter β was found to be negative, and increasing with the rotational quantum number of the NH fragment, i.e., from -0.75 at JNH=2-4 to -0.17 at JNH=11. Impulsive direct and vertical dissociation process of HNCO on the singlet state at 210 nm was confirmed experimentally. A classical impact dissociation model was employed to explain the dependence of the β value on the rotational excitation of the NH fragment.
The antidotal potency of a cobalt salt (acetate), of dicobalt edetate, of hydroxocobalamin and of cobinamide against hydrocyanic acid was examined mainly on mice and rabbits. All the compounds were active antidotes for up to twice the LD50; under some conditions for larger doses. The most successful was cobalt acetate for rabbits (5xLD50), which was effective at a molar cyanide/cobalt (CN/Co) ratio of 5, but had as a side-effect intense purgation. Hydroxocobalamin was irregular in action, but on the whole was most effective for mice (4.5xLD50 at a molar ratio of 1), and had no apparent side effects. Dicobalt edetate, at molar ratios of up to 2, was more effective for rabbits (3xLD50) than for mice (2xLD50), but had fewer side effects than cobalt acetate. The effect of thiosulphate was to augment the efficacy of dicobalt edetate and, in mice, that of hydroxocobalamin; but, apparently, in rabbits, to reduce that of hydroxocobalamin. Cobinamide, at a molar ratio of 1, was slightly more effective than hydroxocobalamin on rabbits and also less irregular in its action. Cobalt acetate by mouth was effective against orally administered hydrocyanic acid. The oxygen uptake of the body, reduced by cyanide, is rapidly reinstated when one of the cobalt antidotes has been successfully administered.
Abstract does not appear. First page follows. ::: Introduction ::: Both the red scale, Aonidiella aurantii (Mask.), and the black scale, Saissetia oleae Bern., become more difficult to kill if they have first been exposed for a short ::: time to a sublethal concentration of hydrocyanic acid gas. The term applied to the ::: effect of small charges of HCN is “protective stupefaction.” It may be brought about ::: in the field by the leakage of gas through the tents or by poor diffusion of the gas ::: within the tent. Since most workers agree that the red scale becomes stupefied when ::: prefumigated with a sublethal concentration of HCN, an investigation was begun to ::: determine the length of time these insects remain stupefied. ::: Earlier Investigations ::: (Gray and Kirkpatrick (1929)) concluded that under the laboratory conditions of their experiments: ::: Both the resistant and nonresistant strains of black and red scales exhibit a characteristic ::: which is termed “protective stupefaction,” that is, when a lot of scale is first exposed ::: to a sublethal, but stupefying concentration of hydrocyanic acid in air, followed ::: by a normally lethal concentration, more of them are able to survive than a lot upon ::: which the reverse procedure has been followed. ::: ……………………………………………………………………………………………………… ::: Correlated field and laboratory observations and experiments, not fully described ::: in this paper, furnish good circumstantial evidence that protective stupefaction is ::: sometimes a factor adversely affecting the results of scale kill in commercial fumigation. ::: (Pratt, Swain, and Eldred (1931)) found that protective stupefaction is a fact in the case of both black and red scales ::: when exposed to lethal concentrations of HCN after 10- or 3-minute exposures to sublethal ::: concentrations, but that protective stupefaction does not follow exposure for only ::: 1 minute to sublethal concentrations.
1. ::: ::: The absolute values of the rate constant of the reaction of nitrogen atoms with ethylene were measured at various temperatures in the range 291–523°K. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: The activation energy and preexponential factor of the rate constant of the reaction of nitrogen atoms with ethylene were determined. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: Hydrocyanic acid, formed in the reaction of nitrogen atoms with ethylene, is one of the reaction products of the primary event.
Hydantoin (C(3)H(4)N(2)O(2), 2,4-imidazolidinedione) was isolated in argon matrix at 10 K and its infrared spectrum and unimolecular photochemistry were investigated. The molecular structure of the compound was studied both at the DFT(B3LYP) and MP2 levels of approximation with valence triple- and quadruple-ζ basis sets (6-311++G(d,p); cc-pVQZ). It was concluded that the minima in the potential energy surfaces of the molecule correspond to C(1) symmetry structures. However, the energy barrier separating the two-equivalent-by-symmetry minima stays below their zero-point energy, which makes the C(s) symmetry structure, which separates the two minima, the experimentally relevant one. The electronic structure of the molecule was studied in detail by performing the Natural Bond Orbital analysis of its electronic configuration within the DFT(B3LYP)/cc-pVQZ space. The infrared spectrum of the matrix isolated compound was fully assigned also with help of the theoretically predicted spectrum. Upon irradiation at λ = 230 nm, matrix-isolated hydantoin was found to photofragment into isocyanic acid, CO, and methylenimine.
The invention relates to a synthetic method of pregabalin intermediate 2-carboxethyl-3-cyano-5-methylethyl caproate (CNDE). 2-carboxethyl-5-methyl-2-ethyl hexenoate (ECMH) and sodium hydroxide are firstly mixed in a reaction solvent and then added with hydrocyanic acid, or sodium hydroxide and hydrocyanic acid are firstly mixed in a reaction solvent and then added with the 2-carboxethyl-5-methyl-2-ethyl hexenoate (ECMH), after the reaction is ended, hydrochloric acid is added to regulate the pH value, then water and organic solvent are added for extraction and separation, and the organic phase is washed by using water and then distilled to obtain the 2-carboxethyl-3-cyano-5-methylethyl caproate (CNDE). By adopting the method provided by the invention, the use cost of sodium cyanide is reduced, the wastewater quantity is reduced and the wastewater treatment pressure is relieved.
Peaks in most detected compounds in ultrafine aerosol particles occur in "plumes" in early morning under stagnant wind conditions. Ultrafine aerosol particles are primarily composed of oxidized and nitrogen-containing organics, the latter includes cyanate (from isocyanic acid), which is likely linked to biomass burning.
A mobile laboratory equipped with state-of-the-art gaseous and particulate instrumentation 2 was deployed across the Greater Toronto Area during two seasons. A high-resolution time-of-flight 3 mass spectrometer (HR-TOF-CIMS) measured isocyanic acid (HNCO) and hydrogen cyanide (HCN), 4
The synthetic utility of isocyanides extends far beyond the preparation of -acyloxy and - vasopressin V 1A receptor antagonist 2, 8 Ras farnesyl transferase inhibitor 3, 9  opioid receptor antagonist 4, 10 tubulin polymerization inhibitor 5, 11 high-affinity ligand to the human ghrelin receptor 6 12 and glycine transporter 1 inhibitor 7 13 are only a few examples illustrating the privileged character 14 of the 1,2,4-triazole core for the drug design ( Figure 1 ). Recently, we described a new reaction of isocyanides with aldehyde thiosemicarbazones 8 that yields rare N 1 ,N 3 -disubstituted formamidrazone hydrochlorides 9. 15 The reaction is promoted by chlorotrimethylsilane (TMSCl) and is thought to proceed via isocyanide N-H insertion followed by the elimination of isothiocyanic acid (Scheme 2). Given the novelty of this reaction and an intriguing arrangement of potentially reactive electrophilic hydrazone and nucleophilic amidine moieties in 9, we became interested in identifying the utility of the latter for ring-forming processes. 16 Herein we described the application of isocyanide-derived formamidrazones 9 toward facile preparation of diversely substituted 1,2,4-triazoles.
Isocyanic acid, HCNO, a major thermal decomposition product of cyanuric acid, is an important in NO x pollutant emissions from fossil-fuel combustion. [1] [2] [3] In recent years, many experimental investigations on HNCO have been performed. [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] [13] [14] [15] Some studies have reported the photolysis reactions [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] and the polymerization pathways of HNCO.
Thiosemicarbazones of aromatic aldehydes and ketones generally provided better yields compared to their aliphatic counterparts (5q, 5x-z). According to our mechanistic interpretation, similar reactivity should be expected of semicarbazones (with respective loss of isocyanic acid). Although the product 5a was indeed isolated as a free base (following basic work-up and extraction) from the reaction of the semicarbazone analog of 4, the yield (27%) and abundance of unwanted side-products were far less appealing. The reasons for the less efficient reactivity of semicarbazones toward isocyanides, compared to that of thiosemicarbazones, are not clear at present.
The mechanism presented in Scheme 4 also implies that TMSCl-promoted insertion of an isocyanide into an H 2 NCSN-H bond, with subsequent loss of isothiocyanic acid may be general in nature. We reacted t-BuNC with unsubstituted thiourea and thiosemicarbazide in the presence of 1 equiv. of TMSCl. The hydrochlorides of monosubstituted amidine 6 and formamidrazone 7 were isolated from the respective reactions by filtration, although the yield of the former was of little practical value (Scheme 5). Interestingly, an attempted alternative synthesis of the free-base compound 5a from monosubstituted formamidrazone 7 (MeCN, panisaldehyde, Et 3 N, r.t., 2 h) led to the conversion of the latter into a complex product mixture containing only a small amount of the target material (according to TLC analysis).
The photodissociation of isocyanic acid (HNCO) on the first excited singlet state following the excitation at 210 nm was investigated with an ion velocity slice imaging technique by probing the CO fragment. It was found from the (2+1) resonance-enhanced multi-photon ionization (REMPI) spectrum that the CO fragments are rotationally hot with population up to Jmax=50. The velocity imagings of the CO fragments at J CO =30 and 35 indicate that formation of NH(a 1 ∆)+CO(X 1 Σ + , v=0) is the predominant dissociation channel at 210 nm. From analysis of the CO fragment translational energy distributions, the NH(a 1 ∆) fragment was observed to be rotationally cold, about half of the available energy was partitioned into the translational motion of fragments after dissociation, and the NH(a 1 ∆)+CO(X 1 Σ + ) dissociation threshold was determined at 42738±30 cm −1 . From analysis of the CO fragment angular distributions, the dissociation anisotropy parameter β was found to be negative, and increasing with the rotational quantum number of the NH fragment, i.e., from −0.75 at J NH =2-4 to −0.17 at J NH =11. Impulsive direct and vertical dissociation process of HNCO on the singlet state at 210 nm was confirmed experimentally. A classical impact dissociation model was employed to explain the dependence of the β value on the rotational excitation of the NH fragment.
Abstract The combustion and pyrolysis characteristics of four biologically active fused triazinylcarbohydrazides were investigated by using thermogravimetric analysis (in air and nitrogen atmosphere). Together with the analyses performed in nitrogen the FTIR spectra of the evolved gas phase products were recorded. It is indicated that the combustion process can be subdivided into three stages: (i) removing and combustion of the hydrazine fragment; (ii) partial degradation and thermal decomposition of sample; (iii) further cracking process and complete combustion of the remaining parts of compounds. Although the pyrolysis process is also a three-stage one, the last stage is not associated with complete burning of the studied samples. During pyrolysis of all studied compounds, ammonia, carbon dioxide, isocyanic acid, hydrogen cyanide, aniline or its derivatives and carbon monoxide are identified as major products in the FTIR spectra of gaseous products.
The invention relates to an apparatus and a method for producing ammonia from solid urea pellets are stored in a storage container (1). The apparatus provides for various sub-assemblies, namely a pellet dispensing device (7), a pellet accelerator (8), a pellet-firing channel (9) and an ammonia reactor (11) with a space or a zone (10) for a zeroing of urea pellets and, arranged at the end of shooting path pellet deflector (12) and a urea-evaporation device (13) and a hydrolysis catalyst (14). The inventive method is characterized as follows: The urea pellets are transported, with the latter by means of the metering device (7) in a controlled amount / number from the storage container (1) removed and the pellet accelerator (8) is mechanically accelerated internally to a high speed are then passed therefrom into the pellet shooting channel (9) and by the injected where they open and at the end of the weft route on the pellet deflector (12) crushed into a plurality of fragments in the ammonia reactor (11) , These pellets fragments are immediately thereafter by means of the urea-evaporation device (13) in an ammonia (NH 3) and isocyanic acid (HNCO) containing gas mixture is converted, which is then passed together with steam through the hydrolysis catalytic converter (14) and thereby the isocyanic acid into ammonia and ...
A total of 11 rhizobia-like-bacteria, isolated from the nodules of chickpea, were characterized for nitrogen fixation potential and growth promoting ability. All the isolates nodulated chickpea, amplified nifH gene and fixed nitrogen but, four isolates (ICKM-9, ICKM-15, ICS-31 and ICS-32) were found to fix nitrogen more than 4.0 nmoles of ethylene g−1 fresh weight of nodules h−1. Under field conditions, seeds of chickpea varieties ICCV 2 and JG 11, when treated with the bacteria, enhanced the nodule number (up to 46% and 46%), nodule mass (up to 76% and 50%), shoot mass (up to 21% and 42%) and grain yield (up to 27% and 25%), respectively, over the un-inoculated control. At the harvest, organic carbon (up to 7% and 24%), total nitrogen (up to 11% and 19%) and available phosphorous (up to 14% and 29%) were found enhanced, respectively, in the rhizosphere of ICCV-2 and JG-11 treated with bacteria over the un-inoculated control. All the isolates produced plant growth-promoting traits including indole acetic acid, β-1,3-glucanase, hydro cyanic acid (except ICKM-17 and ICS-31) and siderophore (except ICS-31). The 16 S rDNA gene sequences of bacterial isolates of ICKM-1, ICKM-4, ICKM-7, ICKM-9, ICKM-12, ICKM-14, ICKM-15, ICKM-17, ICS-30, ICS-31 and ICS-32 showed maximum identity with Pantoea dispersa, Chryseobacterium indologenes, Pseudomonas geniculata, Stenotrophomonas pavanii, P. geniculata, P. geniculata, Stenotrophomonas maltophilia, Chryseobacterium sp., P. geniculata, Chryseobacterium indologenes and Stenotrophomonas acidaminiphila, respectively. This study indicates nodule-associated bacteria could be a valuable pool for improving nitrogen fixation and crop yields in chickpea.
The paper deals with exploration of folklore knowledge on medicinal plants used in digestive disorders of livestock (cattle, sheep and goats) practiced by local healers of Medak district, Telangana, India. An attempt is made to gather information from the local pastoral healers belonging to Golla, Kurma,Lambada, Mudiraj and Gouda communities. The author has interviewed 25 healers and recorded the methods of collection of herbal plants and methods of preparation of the drugs used by them. Livestock of the district are commonly prone to digestive disorders like anorexia, bloat diarrhea, dysentery (blood with stool), stomach ache, dyspepsia, intestinal worms, hydrocyanic acid and stomatitis. The author has recorded 66 species of medicinal plants during last five years which are being used by the healers belonging to 58 genera of 37 families of angiosperms. In all a total of 70 remedies were recorded under digestive disorders, (out of which 30 for diarrhea and dysentery 9 for bloat, 9 for stomach ache, 8 for dyspepsia, 5 for intestinal worms, 4 for anorexia, 3 for hydrocyanic acid tympani (occurs due consumption of poison leaves which contain hydrocyanic acid), and 2 for stomatitis). The author has recorded several forms of medicines like fresh juice from the fresh plant materials in the form of mixtures, pills, decoctions, powders etc. Healers generally use fresh plant materials like leaves, barks (of roots and stems), tubers, rhizomes either to make juice and decoction.
Abstract The aim of this work was to study the effects of temperature and time of oven drying and hot water cooking processes on HCN (hydrocyanic acid) degradation of cassava leaves as a contribution for obtaining a safe product for human consumption. Nine varieties of cassava leaves collected in the Amazonian region of Brazil (Para State) were characterized regarding moisture, pH, total acidity, ashes, total lipids, total protein, water activity, carbohydrates, total energetic value and HCN contents. The leaves of the three cassava varieties, which presented the highest HCN contents, were submitted to the thermal degradation of HCN, under drying and boiling conditions. All the leaves presented similar physicochemical characteristics and the HCN contents varied from 90.6 to 560.9 mg HCN/kg fresh leaves (total HCN) and from 16.6 to 59.2 mg HCN/kg fresh leaves (free HCN). Thermal degradation studies on HCN showed that the drying and boiling processes were effective on total HCN removal after 180 min. Furthermore, a remarkable decrease in HCN contents was observed after 20 min of boiling. Regarding free HCN, the drying method was more effective than boiling, showing high degradation percentages: 74.1%–92.2% to 1.1%–72.4%, respectively.
Selective catalytic reduction using urea-water-solution to reduce emissions of NO x from diesel engines is commonly used in the automotive industry. For a high efficiency of this process, a good understanding of the formation of ammonia from urea-water-solution droplets is required. There are two main variants for the description of urea decomposition into ammonia and isocyanic acid from droplets of urea-water-solution based on an evaporation model: direct decomposition at the interface and decomposition in the gas phase by a chemical reaction. These variants have been compared using detailed one-dimensional simulations with a detailed model for the gas-liquid interface. In addition, the influence of gas phase chemistry and varying ambient conditions on the decomposition of urea was determined. It is shown that water evaporation and urea decomposition cannot be completely separated. Direct decomposition overestimates the production of ammonia due to the varying gas phase properties of ammonia and isocyanic acid. Decomposition in the gas phase correctly calculates the mass of ammonia produced by a droplet but the gas phase reaction couples strongly with the evaporation process. Especially at lower ambient temperatures, the evaporation rate is increased and it is more sensitive to changes of the ambient conditions and initial droplet diameter. Of the known relevant gas phase chemistry, only the hydrolysis of isocyanic acid happens in a time-scale similar to that of the droplet variation at temperatures typical for selective catalytic reduction.
Abstract Improvements in dry matter digestibility of crop residues contribute to greater productivity of livestock consuming dual-purpose sorghums ( Sorghum bicolor L. Moench). Delayed leaf senescence (stay-green), brown-midrib (bmr), leaf disease resistance, and high yield are among sorghum phenotypic traits that could enhance nutritive value of crop residues. The objective was to evaluate nutritive value and hydrocyanic acid potential (HCN-p) of leaf or stem components of crop residues of sorghum lines and hybrids representing differences in phenotypic traits. Four replications of eight or more lines and hybrids made up a randomized complete block design during 2 years in central Texas. Dry matter yield, dry weight loss after extraction in water and incubation in rumen, and fiber concentrations of leaves and stems were measured after grain harvest under field conditions. In addition, HCN-p of axillary branches and mature leaves was quantified. Sample weight loss in water extractions without incubation in rumen was negatively correlated with fiber concentrations, which were measured as the sample weights remaining after extraction in neutral (NDF) and acidic (ADF) detergent solutions. Greater concentrations of water-extractable dry matter and lower concentrations of NDF and ADF were observed for stay-green than for bmr or lines that senesced under drought. Yet, the sum of water-extractable dry matter plus ensuing weight loss during 7 days in rumen, expressed as yield ha −1 of leaf and stem digestible dry matter, was not consistently greater for stay-green than drought-susceptible lines. In addition, the yield of the sum of water-extractable and 7-day rumen losses of stay-green lines was comparable to or less than the bmr line. Under conditions in which leaf senescence varied little, analyses of nutritive value indicated water-extractable dry matter was enhanced and fiber concentrations were reduced in crop residues of stay-green compared to senescent lines.
[1] Isocyanic acid (HNCO), a product of some combustion processes, can potentially have negative human health effects. While gas phase HNCO loss processes are slow, HNCO loss in the aqueous phase is much faster. The fate of HNCO is studied for different cloud chemistry conditions using a zero-dimensional chemical box model. Exposure to clouds reduces HNCO concentrations substantially under typical cumulus cloud conditions, resulting in the chemical lifetime of HNCO dropping to ~2 h compared to clear-sky conditions of several years. The effect of clouds on HNCO is strongly dependent on the pH and temperature, with more HNCO hydrolyzed at lower pH (more acidic drops) and higher temperatures. Thus, HNCO is most efficiently removed by fog or low-level stratus clouds and least efficiently removed under middle to upper troposphere conditions where cumulonimbus and pyrocumulus clouds reside. Deliquesced aerosols may be highly efficient at reducing HNCO concentrations.
Abstract Two aspects of the reactions of mixtures of H 2 , NO and CO over supported Pt catalysts have been investigated in detail. With Pt/SiO 2 isocyanic acid, HNCO, is a substantial gaseous product over a wide range of conditions. Its formation persists with O 2 also present provided the concentration of unreacted CO is sufficient to populate the Pt surface. Added water causes some loss of HNCO due to hydrolysis. With Pt/Al 2 O 3 the rate of hydrolysis is so fast that no HNCO is seen. Combined in situ FTIR and isotope transient measurements show that this hydrolysis occurs largely through the intermediate formation of surface NCO groups on the alumina component of the catalyst.
Interaction of the electric quadrupole moment of the nitrogen nucleus with the molecular electric fields of isocyanic and isothiocyanic acids results in a hyperfine splitting of the rotational trnasitions.
A method of assessing the hydrocyanic acid potential (HCN-p) of sudangrass [Sorghum sudanense (Piper) Stapf] and sorghum [S. bicolor (L.) Moench] seedlings is described. This procedure is based on the determination of p-hydroxybenzaldehyde (p-HB), which is released upon hydrolysis of dhurrin, the cyanogen normally present in plants of Sorghum species. Extraction and hydrolysis of dhurrin are accomplished by autoclaving young leaf tissue in water. The content of p-HB in the aqueous extract is then determined by spectrophotometric assay in alkaline solution at 330 nm. Uniform samples for the comparison of widely divergent genotypes are obtained by using the first leaf of young, chamber-grown, green seedlings. Relative ranks of a wide variety of sorghum germplasm assayed for HCN content by this technique are in good agreement with those obtained by other methods. The procedure shows promise of providing a rapid and precise tool for conducting genetic and breeding studies with sorghums
The effect of different processing methods (soaking in water or solutions of sodium bicarbonate, citric acid, soaking plus cooking, and germination) on anti-nutritional factors (phytic acid, total polyphenols, tannins, and hydrocyanic acid) of red kidney bean was studied. The anti-nutritional factors were reduced significantly (P < 0.001) with processing techniques. Cyanide contents were most effectively (25%) reduced by cooking after soaking in sodium bicarbonate solution, followed by germination. The most drastic effect was noted on tannin contents. Cooking after soaking in either citric acid or sodium bicarbonate solutions almost eliminated it. However, simple soaking in water did not result in any reduction in tannin contents. Reduction in total polyphenols was 78.7% with cooking after soaking in sodium bicarbonate solution. Phytic acid contents were reduced only with germination treatment (42.6%), while the other treatments did not bring about any large reduction.
1. Dogs, rabbits, chickens, white rats, and guinea pigs were exposed to known concentrations of gaseous hydrocyanic acid for long periods. 2. The critical level for various animals has been measured and is shown by the onset of convulsions. 3. Below the critical level hydrocyanic acid is efficiently dealt with by the detoxifying mechanism for an unlimited time. 4. There is no evidence of tolerance or increased susceptibility. 5. Methylene blue has but little value as a treatment for cyanide poisoning above the critical level. 6. Methylene blue has considerable value as a prophylactic against concentrations of hydrocyanic acid above the critical level.
. Under field conditions, seeds of chickpea varieties ICCV 2 and JG 11, when treated with the bacteria, enhanced the nodule number (up to 46% and 46%), nodule mass (up to 76% and 50%), shoot mass (up to 21% and 42%) and grain yield (up to 27% and 25%), respectively, over the un-inoculated control. At the harvest, organic carbon (up to 7% and 24%), total nitrogen (up to 11% and 19%) and available phosphorous (up to 14% and 29%) were found enhanced, respectively, in the rhizosphere of ICCV-2 and JG-11 treated with bacteria over the un-inoculated control. All the isolates produced plant growth-promoting traits including indole acetic acid, β-1,3-glucanase, hydro cyanic acid (except ICKM-17 and ICS-31) and siderophore (except ICS-31). The 16 S rDNA gene sequences of bacterial isolates of ICKM-1, ICKM-4, ICKM-7, ICKM-9, ICKM-12, ICKM-14, ICKM-15, ICKM-17, ICS-30, ICS-31 and ICS-32 showed maximum identity with Pantoea dispersa, Chryseobacterium indologenes, Pseudomonas geniculata, Stenotrophomonas pavanii, P. geniculata, P. geniculata, Stenotrophomonas maltophilia, Chryseobacterium sp., P. geniculata, Chryseobacterium indologenes and Stenotrophomonas acidaminiphila, respectively. This study indicates nodule-associated bacteria could be a valuable pool for improving nitrogen fixation and crop yields in chickpea.
The GC-MS analysis of Mallotus tetracoccus ethanolic leaf extract have revealed the presence of Bis (2-ethyl hexyl) phthalate (46.78 %), 3-methyl-2-(2-oxypropyl) furan (13.31%), E-8-methyl-9-tetradecen-1-ol acetate (6.63 %), Octadecanoic acid, 2-oxo (4.46 %) and Longiborneol (2.39%) [6] . The bark of M. tetracoccus have been reported for high antioxidant and antibacterial activity [7] . Also, the bark extract studied for GC-MS showed presences of thiocyanic acid, furfural and 4H-Pyran-4 -one, 2, 3-Dihydro-3, 5-dihydroxy-6-methyl compounds. The bark extract showed significant cytotoxicity and phytotoxicity on radish seeds [8] .
Carbamylation is a spontaneous, nonenzymatic reaction of protein modification by cyanate derived from urea, which is normally present in human plasma and is elevated in uremic patients (1). Urea spontaneously forms cyanate and ammonia, at body pH and temperature (2). Isocyanic acid (the active form of cyanate) reacts irreversibly with the nonprotonated amino group of amino acids, forming α-amino-carbamyl-amino acids from free amino acids (3). The irreversible carbamylation forming ε-amino-carbamyl-lysine occurs at multiple lysine sites within a protein with accumulation over the life span of the protein (3). When a molecule of cyanate is removed by carbamylation, a new molecule of cyanate is formed because of the equilibrium between urea and cyanate (3). Chronic kidney disease in humans is associated with a several times increased risk of developing cardiovascular disease because of accelerated atherosclerosis (4). The mechanism of uremia-induced atherosclerosis is not quite understood. It is commonly accepted that endothelial cell injury is an initial event in atherosclerosis (5). Injured endothelial cells attract monocytes, which burrow beneath the endothelial cell layer and ingest modified LDL to form foam cells. This process leads to the formation of atherosclerotic plaque which protrudes into the vessel lumen over the proliferating vascular smooth muscle cells (6, 7) .
Cassava (Manihot esculenta Crantz) is a root widely consumed in Brazil. In its processing, for the production of flour or starch, various wastes, such as bark, between shell scrapings, bran and cassava wastewater, are generated (FERREIRA, 2013) . Cassava wastewater is a yellowish liquid obtained during the pressing of cassava for the production of flour or starch. This waste is a great potential polluter, due to its high rate of biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) and high concentration of hydrocyanic acid, which can cause significant environmental impacts, contaminating rivers and watercourses (SOUZA et al., 2014) .
Amygdalin (vitamin B 17 ; previously called laetrile) is one of many nitrilosides, which are natural cyanide-containing substances abundant in the seeds of prunasin family, plant such as apricots, almonds, peaches, apples, and other rosaceous plants. Among the prunasins, Armeniacae semen has been used for the treatment of asthma, bronchitis, emphysema, leprosy, colorectal cancer, leucoderma, and pain. [1] [2] [3] Amygdalin is composed of two molecules of glucose, one of benzaldehyde, which induces an analgesic action, and one of hydrocyanic acid, which is an anti-neoplastic compound. Apart from the above indications, amygdalin has been used to treat cancers and relieve pain. [4] [5] [6] In particular, D-amygdalin (D-mandelonitrile-b-D-gentiobioside) is known to exhibit selective killing effect on cancer cells.
Abstract Possum hunters believe that scented flour lures possums to cyanide poison paste baits, resulting in better kills. We tested 20 odorous compounds for attractiveness to possums in pens, then field‐tested five of the most effective (cinnamon, aniseed, plum, cherry, and orange). Only cinnamon increased kills achieved with cyanide by acting as a lure and improving bait palatability. However, neither cinnamon nor any of the other four attractive compounds masked the hydrocyanic acid gas that is released by cyanide paste and detected by possums. When cinnamon was tested as a lure for attracting possums to bait stations, the numbers of possums visiting bait stations did not increase. Cinnamon functions as a lure only over short distances (i.e., up to 2 m). However, this may be useful in guiding possums to cyanide baits used by hunters or aerially sown baits, many of which become hidden in the vegetation. Most compounds commonly used by hunters are unlikely to improve kills.
Results are given of spray alone, fumigation alone, and these in combination against the red scale on citrus trees. Highest efficiency was secured when fumigation followed within a week or ten days the application of oil spray. Oil shown to absorb little if any HCN gas and an oil spray serves as a protective film to the citrus tree, rendering it less susceptible to hydrocyanic acid injury.
A preliminary study of the "resistant" red scale (Aonidiella aurantii) of California has been made involving the influence on the kill of the type of hydrocyanic acid concentration, the stage of development of the insect, the temperature of the host, the temperature and relative humidity preceding, during and after the fumigation, and protective stupefaction. It was found that the type of concentration and the percentage of insects in the resistant stages did not determine the effectiveness of the fumigation. Temperature and relative humidity had a decided influence. Protective Stupefaction mayor may not be an important factor.
The production of quaternary glycine nitriles (I) in which R and R may be the same or different and are an aliphatic, cycloaliphatic or araliphatic radical with 1 to 30 C atoms, whereby R and R may also form a saturated or unsaturated five or six-member heterocyclic ring together with the N atom to which they are bonded, which can also contain further hetero-atoms, be benzanellated and have alkyl side groups, while R may also be hydrogen; R is C1 to C4 alkyl or benzyl; R is hydrogen, C1 to C20 alkyl which may be interrupted by one or more non adjacent oxygen atoms, or a radical (a) in which R is a chemical bond or a C1 to C6 alkylene bridge and X is a counterion; by the reaction of amines (II) in which the variables R and R have the above meanings, with a monoaldehyde (IIIa) R -CHO or a dialdehyde (IIIb) OHC-R -CHO in which R has the above meaning and R is hydrogen or C1 to C20 alkyl and hydrocyanic acid or an alkaline metal cyanide in an aqueous medium, followed by quaternation with an alkylation agent (IV) R -X in which R has the above meaning and X is an initial group, by reacting the amines (II) with the aldehydes (III) and hydrocyanic acid or alkaline metal cyanide and quaternising in succession without isolating an intermediate product in an aqueous medium.
The stimulation of the respiration by hydrocyanic acid has been known ever since its physiologic action was first investigated. It was sought to utilize this extremely obvious stimulation of the respiration therapeutically, and we find articles published in the first half of the last century lauding its use as a respiratory stimulant. 1 The depressing action of hydrocyanic acid was also noted. 2 The only remnant of this once prominent remedy left in modern therapeutics is the use of hydrocyanic acid in certain cough mixtures. Geppert 3 established that the action of hydrocyanic acid is essentially asphyxiation, since it acts by decreasing the oxygen absorbed by the tissues and also the carbon dioxid produced by them. The attitude of modern pharmacologists on the therapeutic use of hydrocyanic acid may be gathered from the following: Heinz 4 says that hydrocyanic acid is one of the strongest stimulants for the respiration known, but that its stimulating
Fresh and dried bitter (high HCN) cassava, dried sweet (low HCN) cassava and a commercial pellet diet were fed to rats during two life-cycles. First litter birth weights of rats on fresh cassava diets were significantly (P<0.05) lower than on other diets. Performance of rats on sun dried cassava diets were probably more affected by the fungal growth on the sundried chips, rather than influence of its hydrocyanic acid content. Histopathological examination of thyroid tissue revealed that thyroidal epithetial heights were significantly (P<0.05) lower in the second litter offspring of the fresh cassava group than in others. Alopecia was also observed in these rats.
Process for obtaining solutions containing water and at least one metal cyanide, comprising: (i) the reaction of hydrocyanic acid or gases containing hydrogen cyanide with a solution containing at least one metal hydroxide and / or a metal oxide and / or mixed oxide and water; (Ii) optionally, dilution with water of the solution obtained in step (i); with that obtained in step (i) at least part of the water from the wastewater, which are formed as depleted wastewater in a process for carrying out the production of noble metals from minerals containing noble metals by a cyanide process.
Flaxseed cake contains cyanogenic glucosides, which can be metabolized into hydrocyanic acid in an animal's body, leading to asphyxia poisoning in cells. Beta-glucosidase is highly efficient in degrading cyanogenic glucosides. The Cattle may have β-glucosidase-producing strains in the intestinal tract after eating small amounts of flaxseed cake for a long time. This study aimed to isolate of a strain from cow dung that produces β-glucosidase with high activity and can significantly reduce the amount of cyanogenic glucosides. We used cow dung as the microflora source and an esculin agar as the selective medium. After screening with 0.05% esculin and 0.01% ferric citrate, we isolated 5 strains producing high amounts of β-glucosidase. In vitro flaxseed cake fermentation was fermented by these 5 strains, in which the strain M-2 exerted the best effect (P < 0.05). The strain M-2 was identified as Lichtheimia ramosa and used as the fermentation strain to optimize the fermentation parameters by a single factor analysis and orthogonal experimental design. The optimum condition was as follows: inoculum size 3%, water content 60%, time 144 h, and temperature 32 °C. Under this condition, the removal rate of cyanogenic glucosides reached 89%, and crude protein increment reached 44%. These results provided a theoretical basis for the removal of cyanogenic glucosides in flaxseed and the comprehensive utilization of flaxseed cake.
Ion–molecule reactions are thought to play a crucial role in the formation of metastable isomers, but relatively few protonated intermediates beyond HNCH+ have been characterized at high spectral resolution. We present here laboratory measurements of the rotational spectra of protonated isocyanic acid in two isomeric forms, the ground state H2NCO+ with C2v symmetry and a low-lying bent chain HNCOH+, guided by coupled cluster calculations of their molecular structure. Somewhat surprisingly, HNCOH+ is found to be more abundant than H2NCO+, even though this metastable isomer is calculated to lie approximately 15–20 kcal/mol higher in energy. In the same way that HCNH+ serves as a key intermediate in ion–molecule reactions that form HNC via dissociative electron recombination in cold dense interstellar molecular clouds, HNCOH+ may play an analogous role in the conversion of HNCO to HOCN.
As a simple molecule containing the four main atoms essential for life as we know it, isocyanic acid can be considered as a prebiotic molecule. As such, the understanding of reaction mechanisms leading to its formation is fundamental. Isocyanic acid is present in different physical environments in the medium. Previous studies have suggested that, in water-containing ices, on the surface of dust grains, HNCO may be formed from N and CO in their fundamental states. To further investigate the reaction process, herein we investigate this reaction by means of the matrix-isolation technique.
Urea thermolysis and isocyanic acid hydrolysis over three kinds of zeolites are investigated experimentally and the main decomposition products, NH3 and HNCO, are focused on. The results gained using thermogravimetric analysis with heating rates of 2 °C/min from 50–500 °C show NH3 releases mainly in 133–250 °C and the main thermal product above 250 °C is HNCO. NH3 release process appears double-peaked while HNCO triple-peaked. Zeolites shift urea decomposition to lower temperature and shorten the process. The experiments of urea thermolysis over zeolites were done in the fixed reactor at programmed temperature and constant temperature. Although zeolites enhance the production of both NH3 and HNCO, the yield ratio of NH3 increases to 1.1 from 0.9 when adding zeolites but the yield ratio of HNCO is always below 0.8. Under zeolites’s catalytic effect, the peak of NH3 release and the second peak of HNCO release become stronger. Moreover, zeolites can result in the HNCO peaks integrating into a stronger peak a...
Rhizobia are a group of organisms that are well known for their ability to colonize root surfaces and form symbiotic associations with legume plants. They not only play a major role in biological nitrogen fixation but also improve plant growth and reduce disease incidence in various crops. Rhizobia are known to control the growth of many soilborne plant pathogenic fungi belonging to different genera like Fusarium, Rhizoctonia, Sclerotium, and Macrophomina. Antagonistic activity of rhizobia is mainly attributed to production of antibiotics, hydrocyanic acid (HCN), mycolytic enzymes, and siderophore under iron limiting conditions. Rhizobia are also reported to induce systemic resistance and enhance expression of plant defense-related genes, which effectively immunize the plants against pathogens. Seed bacterization with appropriate rhizobial strain leads to elicitation and accumulation of phenolic compounds, isoflavonoid phytoalexins, and activation of enzymes like L-phenylalanine ammonia lyase (PAL), chalcone synthase (CHS), peroxidase (POX), polyphenol oxidase (PPO), and others involved in phenylpropanoid and isoflavonoid pathways. Development of Rhizobium inoculants with dual attributes of nitrogen fixation and antagonism against phytopathogens can contribute to increased plant growth and productivity. This compilation aims to bring together the available information on the biocontrol facet of rhizobia and identify research gaps and effective strategies for future research in this area.
Various reaction systems have been examined for the synthesis of FR from biopolymers. However, many of the FR discussed can't be obtained in large quantities, or the flame-retardant effect is usually not sufficient enough [10] . Often, complex syntheses with toxic compounds are necessary to equip the polymer with the desired properties [11] [12] [13] . Material incompatibilities and poor application properties limit the usability of effective systems [14, 15] . In addition, extensive purification steps of the synthesis A degree of substitution, defined as the average number of phosphate groups per anhydroglucose unit, up to 1.0 could be achieved depending on conditions like temperature, pressure, and reaction time [13, 19] . This is high compared to heterogeneous reactions without urea which are in the range below 0.1 [13] . Phosphates are trifunctional groups and possess the ability to cross-link, which can lead to insoluble products with undefined structure [20] . In addition to esterification, the formation of isocyanic acid from urea decomposition during melting leads to the incorporation of carbamate groups. These are also able to crosslink by further reactions with elimination of ammonia (see Figure 2 ). It is known that high temperatures and long reaction times promote this kind of condensation reactions [21, 22] . As side-products, unreacted urea, phosphating agents, and biuret from urea decomposition remain in the product which can be washed out by dialysis, filtration, and precipitation procedures [23] [24] [25] . [21, 22, 26] .
So far, polysaccharide derivatives from phosphate/urea systems were previously discussed as water absorbing hydrogel for waste water treatment and applications in pharmacy, food industry, A degree of substitution, defined as the average number of phosphate groups per anhydroglucose unit, up to 1.0 could be achieved depending on conditions like temperature, pressure, and reaction time [13, 19] . This is high compared to heterogeneous reactions without urea which are in the range below 0.1 [13] . Phosphates are trifunctional groups and possess the ability to cross-link, which can lead to insoluble products with undefined structure [20] . In addition to esterification, the formation of isocyanic acid from urea decomposition during melting leads to the incorporation of carbamate groups. These are also able to crosslink by further reactions with elimination of ammonia (see Figure 2 ). It is known that high temperatures and long reaction times promote this kind of condensation reactions [21, 22] . As side-products, unreacted urea, phosphating agents, and biuret from urea decomposition remain in the product which can be washed out by dialysis, filtration, and precipitation procedures [23] [24] [25] .
Molecules 2020, 25 , 335 2 of 20 application properties limit the usability of effective systems [14, 15] . In addition, extensive purification steps of the synthesis products and disposal of by-product streams make flame retardant production energy-intensive and costly. Therefore, to date there is no known commercially available flame retardant based on renewable raw materials, which can be produced and applied industrially [16] . A promising approach is the functionalization by phosphate/urea reaction systems [17, 18] . This method allows the incorporation of the fire proofing elements phosphorus and nitrogen in a one-step synthesis onto the biopolymer with available and harmless chemicals (see Figure 1 ). The heterogenic reaction occurs solvent-free in a urea melt with common phosphating agents (PA) like phosphoric acid (H3PO4) monoammonium phosphate (MAP, NH4H2PO4) or urea phosphate (CO(NH2)2·H3PO4). So far, mainly polysaccharides such as cellulose and starch have been functionalized [19] . The products contain primarily phosphate esters and a certain amount of nitrogen (see Figure 1 ). A degree of substitution, defined as the average number of phosphate groups per anhydroglucose unit, up to 1.0 could be achieved depending on conditions like temperature, pressure, and reaction time [13, 19] . This is high compared to heterogeneous reactions without urea which are in the range below 0.1 [13] . Phosphates are trifunctional groups and possess the ability to cross-link, which can lead to insoluble products with undefined structure [20] . In addition to esterification, the formation of isocyanic acid from urea decomposition during melting leads to the incorporation of carbamate groups. These are also able to crosslink by further reactions with elimination of ammonia (see Figure 2 ). It is known that high temperatures and long reaction times promote this kind of condensation reactions [21, 22] . As side-products, unreacted urea, phosphating agents, and biuret from urea decomposition remain in the product which can be washed out by dialysis, filtration, and precipitation procedures [23] [24] [25] . So far, polysaccharide derivatives from phosphate/urea systems were previously discussed as water absorbing hydrogel for waste water treatment and applications in pharmacy, food industry, So far, polysaccharide derivatives from phosphate/urea systems were previously discussed as water absorbing hydrogel for waste water treatment and applications in pharmacy, food industry, cosmetics, and agriculture [18, 22, 27] . There is little data on flame retardant additives processed and tested through this method [28] . It is largely unknown whether the additives are applicable for industrial requirements and what protective effects they have.
Flaxseed cake contains cyanogenic glucosides, which can be metabolized into hydrocyanic acid in an animal's body, leading to asphyxia poisoning in cells. Beta-glucosidase is highly efficient in degrading cyanogenic glucosides. The Cattle may have b-glucosidase-producing strains in the intestinal tract after eating small amounts of flaxseed cake for a long time. This study aimed to isolate of a strain from cow dung that produces b-glucosidase with high activity and can significantly reduce the amount of cyanogenic glucosides. We used cow dung as the microflora source and an esculin agar as the selective medium. After screening with 0.05% esculin and 0.01% ferric citrate, we isolated 5 strains producing high amounts of b-glucosidase. In vitro flaxseed cake fermentation was fermented by these 5 strains, in which the strain M-2 exerted the best effect (P < 0.05). The strain M-2 was identified as Lichtheimia ramosa and used as the fermentation strain to optimize the fermentation parameters by a single factor analysis and orthogonal experimental design. The optimum condition was as follows: inoculum size 3%, water content 60%, time 144 h, and temperature 32 C. Under this condition, the removal rate of cyanogenic glucosides reached 89%, and crude protein increment reached 44%. These results provided a theoretical basis for the removal of cyanogenic glucosides in flaxseed and the comprehensive utilization of flaxseed cake.
Cassava (Manihot esculenta Crantz) is an annually root crop grown widely in tropical and subtropical areas with the roots being a good source of energy while the leaves contain protein, vitamins and minerals. Cassava leaves have a high crude protein (CP) content of which almost 0.85 is true protein (Ravindran 1993) . Furthermore, cassava leaf protein has an essential amino acid (EAA) content which is higher than soybean protein (Eggum 1970; Phuc 2000; Montagnac et al. 2009 ). The high protein content and the relatively good EAA profile are reasons for the inclusion of cassava leaves as a protein source in diets for pigs in many countries. Cassava roots and leaves, however, contain large amounts of cyanogenic glucosides that give rise to toxic hydrocyanic acid (HCN) which limits the use of these products as an animal feed ingredient (Oke 1978; Ngudi et al. 2003; Cardoso et al. 2005) . Ensiling cassava roots and leaves reduce the HCN content (Gomez et al. 1985; Phuc 2000; Loc 2004 ) and allow increased incorporation in animal feeds.
Process for increasing the molecular weight of polyamides, wherein polyamide A) is reacted at a temperature of 150 to 350 ° C with a compound B) which liberates isocyanic acid to the reaction temperature, or with isocyanic acid, obtained separately by thermal decomposition of compound B), the concentration of greater than or equal terminal amino groups that the concentration of terminal carboxyl groups in the polyamide a) used, and the molar ratio of compound B) to the amino end groups of polyamide 0.3: 1 to 1.5: 1.
Twenty samples of white and yellow garri flour produced from cassava (Manihot esculenta Crantz) that were processed for 0, 24, 48, 72 and 96 hours using the combination methods of grating, dewatering, fermentation and frying were analysed for residual hydrocyanic acid concentration using the Spectrophotometeric alkaline Picrate method, (AOAC, 2000). Analysis of results showed that the mean concentration and percentage of HCN concentration lost to processing from 0 to 96 hours in white and yellow garri flour are not significantly different. Therefore, the length of processing time and the combination of grating, dewatering, fermentation and frying methods are responsible for the removal of HCN in both white and yellow garri flour.
Background : Hydrogen cyanide is the chemical responsible for tissue hypoxia. Chronic exposure to HCN may cause neurological, respiratory, cardiovascular and thyroid defects. Onset of symptoms depends on dose and duration of exposure. Large scale of Cassava processing could be disastrous due to discharge of hydrocyanic acid into the air. Cassava processing is the major industrial work in and around Salem. Hence the present study is taken to assess the effects of HCN exposure in Cassava workers. Materials and Methods: Thirty-nine workers from a Cassava processing unit at Salem and age-matched controls of the same economic status were taken up for this study. Clinical history was obtained with a questionnaire and their Blood sugar, lipid profile, serum total protein, urea, creatinine, AST, ALT and T 3 , T 4 , TSH were estimated using a fasting blood sample and AIP was calculated. Statistical analysis was done by student t test. Results: Our study reveals a significant increase in triglyceride in Cassava workers when compared to the control. Atherogenic index of plasma (AIP) is statistically highly significant. A significant decrease was seen in T 4. Conclusion: An increase in TGL and AIP shows a higher degree of cardiovascular risk. A decrease in T4 suggests an insufficient iodine uptake by thyroid gland. Hence a periodic medical evaluation should be done on such workers for their safety and to prevent the health hazard.
Dicyandiamide and aryldicyandiamides react with thiosemicarbazide to yield 1-amino-4-imino(or arylimino)-6-iminohexahydro-l,3,5-triazine-2-thiones. Acid hydrolysis of these compounds results in 3-amino-5-amino(or ary1amino)-1,2,4-triazoles with loss of thiocyanic acid, and their condensation with phenacyl bromide yields 8-amino(or arylamino)-6-imino-3-phenyl-4H,6H-[1,3,5]triazino-[2,1-b][1,3,4]thiadiazines.Reaction of thiocarbohydrazide with dicyandiamides affords 1-amino-4-imino(or ary1imino)-6-hydrazonohexahydro-l,3,5-triazine-2-thiones. These compounds are converted into 8-amino(or arylamino)-6-hydrazono-3-phenyl-4H,6H-[l,3,5]triazino-[2,l-b][1,3,4]thiadiazines by treatment with phenacyl bromide.
A proposition is presented for establishing in Sicily a plexiglas factory using Co/sup 60/ gamma radiation to initiate polymerization of methyl methacrylate which can be obtained quite inexpensively from the methane contained in the large natural gas resources of Italy. Starting with methane, hydrocyanic acid and acetone can be synthesized which react to form acetone-cyanhydrine: Hydrolysis of this compound with sulfuric acid and esterification of the obtained methacrylic acid with methanol lead to the desired monomer methyl methacrylate which is polymerized by gamma radiation in the presence of catalyzators, plastifiers, and, if a certain color effect is desired, by pigments. The reaction mechanism of radio-polymerization is based upon the formation of free radicals which form the chain of reacting monomers. The great advantage of this polymerization process is that it can be carried out at low temperatures, unwanted side reactions are eliminated, and the final product has a more uniform consistency. It is proposed that a Co/sup 60/ bar of many kilocuries be used as the source of gamma radiation. (OID)
Following a request from the European Commission, the EFSA Panel on Contaminants in the Food Chain (CONTAM) provided a scientific opinion on the assessment of a decontamination process for the enzymatic treatment and subsequent heating of linseed, in order to reduce the amount of hydrocyanic acid (HCN) present as cyanogenic glycosides. Specifically, it is required that the feed decontamination process is compliant with the acceptability criteria specified in the Commission Regulation (EU) 2015/786 of 19 May 2015. With this aim, the CONTAM Panel assessed the data provided by the feed business operator with respect to the efficacy of the process to remove the contaminant from the linseed batches and on information demonstrating that the process does not adversely affect the characteristics and the nature of the product. The data enabled the Panel to conclude that in agreement with the literature the process was able to remove HCN by about 90%, and that it is possible to meet the current EU requirements for quality of linseed with respect to HCN, provided the level of contamination of untreated linseed would be within the range of the tested batches. The Panel noted that the amounts of other products formed during the enzymatic process and remaining in the treated material are not of toxicological concern. The experimental data provided by the feed business operator showed that the characteristics of linseed were not adversely affected by the decontamination process. The CONTAM Panel concluded that, on the basis of the information submitted by the feed business operator, the proposed decontamination process to remove HCN from linseed by means of enzymatic release and subsequent evaporation was compliant with the acceptability criteria provided for in Commission Regulation (EU) 2015/786 of 19 May 2015.
Improvement in multi-cut forage sorghum varieties that can perform better than SSG 59-3, a sweet Sudan grass released in 1974, has been a challenge. Efforts were made to create variability in SSG 59-3 through mutagenesis using both physical and chemical mutagens. Fifteen such mutants were evaluated for 2 years in different locations in India. Considerable variability was observed for important fodder yield and quality traits. SSG 237 flowered 10 d early than SSG 59-3. SSG 231, SSG 260, SSG 232 and SSG 237 had high protein percentage and in vitro dry matter digestibility (IVDMD) values compared with SSG 59-3. Hydrocyanic acid (HCN), a major anti-nutritional factor, was low in six mutants, the lowest being in SSG 226. This variability can be used in different breeding programmes aimed at improving multi-cut forage sorghum varieties. The lines with improved fodder quality (low HCN, high protein and IVDMD) can be used in the breeding programme for the improvement in multi-cut forage sorghum varieties.
Potassium cyanate (KOCN) that is known as an inducer of the protein carbamylation is an inorganic compound and is the conjugate based of cyanic acid (HOCN). Based on these studies, we confirmed that KOCN induces the apoptosis of the human colorectal cancer cell line, HCT 116 cells, by various mitochondrial pathways. To investigate other mechanisms of KOCN-mediated apoptosis, in the present study, we examined KOCN-induced cytokines production in HCT 116 cells and identified the intracellular signaling pathway in these processes. We first demonstrated that KOCN considerably increased the cell apoptosis via intracellular Ca 2+ signaling, mitochondrial dysfunction and ROS production. And then we examined TNF-α and IL-1β levels mediated by KOCN in HCT 116 cells. Although IL-1β was not involved in KOCN-mediated HCT 116 cell apoptosis, the release of TNF-α was mediated by KOCN in HCT 116 cells via NF-κB activation. Apoptosis was also enhanced by incubation with supernatants from HCT 116 cells after KOCN treatment and this effect was partially reduced by BAY 11-7085 pre-treated supernatant. Taken together, our results indicate that KOCN-induced apoptosis in HCT 116 cells is dependent on the releases of TNF-α and the increased factors and that the mechanism involves the activation of NF-κB.
Putting pKw=14 and pKa=4.75 into (7), we obtain α0= 0.994 for acetic acid. Thus, under infinite dilution, 0.6 % of acetic acid remains undissociated. For cyanic acid, HCN, with pKa=9.2, we obtain α0=0.00627, i.e., 99.4 % of HCN remains undissociated, under infinite dilution. These results contradict the simple inferences resulting from Eq. (1). This column provides a detailed treatment of the problem associated with Ostwald’s dilution law. In conclusion, it is suggested that the word “dilution” should be omitted from the name of this law. Ostwald’s law, in the authors’ opinion, has some applications for testing acid–base equilibria in aqueous and non-aqueous media. In particular, one can refer to the papers [2, 3] devoted to formulation of pKa = pKa(xB) relationships for some binary-solvent systems, where xB is the amount fraction of co-solvent (B) in a mixture of solvents (A + B).
The filtration of released components in the mainstream cigarette smoke by adding graphene oxide(GO) modified activated carbon fiber(ACF) into the cigarette filter was studied.The materials were characterized by scanning electron microscope(SEM),X-ray powder diffraction(XPS) and surface area measurements.The results showed that GO was coated on ACF uniformly.Compared with ACF,the binding energy of O1s in GO-ACF became lower and the peak became more smooth,also,the surface area and the total pore volume increased.Adding GO-ACF to the cigarette filter could result in its contents of phenol,hydrocyanic acid,aldehydes and ketones all lower than those in the ACF filter cigarettes,in which the contents of components all decreased by at least 10% except for aldehyde,and the reductions of phenol and crotonaldehyde were up to 26.7% and 33.1%,respectively.The study on the mechanism of the filtration indicated that,after modifying GO onto ACF,the active sites increased,since the material surface became rich in hydroxyl,carboxyl,carbonyl and conjugated groups which could interact with conjugated or polar molecules easily.This method was effective,and laid a foundation for the application of two dimensional nano materials,such as GO,in cigarette science.
The possibility to functionalize poly(2-methylpropene) (PIB) by direct synthesis with functions containing nitrogen derived from the group of pseudohalogens, is demonstrated. Polymerization by cationic polyaddition of 2-methylpropene using a suitable cocatalyst, here hydrazoic acid HN3 or hydrocyanic acid HCN, in the presence of titanium tetrachloride is carried out in methylene dichloride. The highest functionalization efficiency (f = 0,7) is obtained for a mole ratio catalyst-to-cocatalyst close to one. Part of the macromolecules is found to contain twice as many tert-butyl groups as internal unsaturations. This finding is explained by the occurrence of some dimerization of macromonomers, which are formed by a PIB backbone terminated by one disubstituted unsaturation.
An improved process is disclosed for preparing α,β-diaminoacrylnitriles having the general formula (I) R?3R2NC(R1)=C(NR2R3?)CN, in which R1 stands for hydrogen, substituted or non-substituted aliphatic residues with 1 to 30 carbon atoms, cycloaliphatic residues with 3 to 8 ring members or aromatic, heteroaromatic or araliphatic residues with 7 to 12 carbon atoms; R?2 and R3? are the same or different and stand for hydrogen or an aliphatic residue with 1 to 15 carbon atoms, a cycloaliphatic residue with 3 to 8 ring members or an aromatic, heterocyclic or araliphatic residue with 7 to 12 carbon atoms, or residues R?2 and R3? may be bound together into a 5- or 6-membered ring that may also carry another heteroatom. In this process, component (A) is reacted with components (B), (C) and (D) in any desired order. (A) is an α-dicarbonyl compound having the general formula R1COCHO, in which R1 has the above-said meaning, or a reactive derivative of said carbonyl compound. (B) is a salt of sulphurous acid, sulphur dioxide or a sulphur dioxide-releasing reactive. (C) is an amine having the general formula HNR2R3 or an aliphatic diamine having the general formula R3HN-(CH?2?)n-NHR?3?, in which the alkylene chain may also bear an R1 substituent having, like R3, the above-said meaning and n equals 2 or 3, or derivatives that are converted into amine or diamine in reaction conditions. (D) is liquid or gaseous hydrocyanic acid or a hydrocyanic acid-releasing reactive. The reaction is carried out with at least 3.5 equivalent alkali compounds per mole of component A. The most part of the alkaline compound consists of potassium compounds and at least one alkali equivalent is added as a free alkaline lye, provided that the proportion of potassium equivalents be sufficiently high for all inorganic salts to remain practically completely in solution at the end of the reaction.
Sorghum crop provides excellent forage in dry land areas. It has ability to tolerate high temperature and grow under minimal soil moisture. Sugar content in Sorghum is of prime importance regarding, animal feed value as well as biofuel production. However, high level of HCN toxin production is a serious problem associated with this crop which could be lethal to animals if ingested in greater quantities. In this study hydrocyanic acid and sugar content dynamics were determined on two forage sorghum cultivars i.e. JS-2002 and Chakwal sorghum at different developmental stages (bootinga and 50% headingb). Fertilizer treatments of nitrogen (0, 60 and 120 kg ha-1) and sulphur levels (0, 20 and 40 kg ha-1) were applied in replicates. The experiment was arranged in randomized complete block design. The results clearly depicted that increase in nitrogen levels gradually increased the HCN and sugar contents irrespective to sulphur and delayed harvesting times. Increase in HCN (21a & 22b%) and brix value (56a & 59b%) was found more at 120 kg N ha-1 when compared with 0 kg N ha-1 (control) treatment. Similarly increase in sulphur application caused increase in brix value however; inverse relationship with HCN content was recorded. Results also indicated that sorghum cultivar JS-2002 produced 27a & 40b% decline in HCN content while 8a & 18b% more sugar content when compared with Chakwal sorghum. Seasonal variations resulted maximum sugar production of 14.9, 25.6% and HCN content of 21.9 & 13.1 mg/100g during different year time (2010 and 2009 when compared with 2008, respectively) probably due to variation in seasonal rainfall. Three years field study indicate that JS-2002 produced less HCN with low dose of N application (0 kg ha-1) and higher application of sulphur (40 kg ha-1) while more brix value at 40 kg S and 120 kg N ha-1 under sub-tropical rainfed conditions
Following a request from the European Commission, the EFSA Panel on Contaminants in the Food Chain (CONTAM) provided a scientific opinion on the assessment of a decontamination process for the enzymatic treatment and subsequent heating of linseed, in order to reduce the amount of hydrocyanic acid (HCN) present as cyanogenic glycosides. Specifically, it is required that the feed decontamination process is compliant with the acceptability criteria specified in the Commission Regulation (EU) 2015/786 of 19 May 2015. With this aim, the CONTAM Panel assessed the data provided by the feed business operator with respect to the efficacy of the process to remove the contaminant from the linseed batches and on information demonstrating that the process does not adversely affect the characteristics and the nature of the product. The data enabled the Panel to conclude that in agreement with the literature the process was able to remove HCN by about 90%, and that it is possible to meet the current EU requirements for quality of linseed with respect to HCN, provided the level of contamination of untreated linseed would be within the range of the tested batches. The Panel noted that the amounts of other products formed during the enzymatic process and remaining in the treated material are not of toxicological concern. The experimental data provided by the feed business operator showed that the characteristics of linseed were not adversely affected by the decontamination process. The CONTAM Panel concluded that, on the basis of the information submitted by the feed business operator, the proposed decontamination process to remove HCN from linseed by means of enzymatic release and subsequent evaporation was compliant with the acceptability criteria provided for in Commission Regulation (EU) 2015/786 of 19 May 2015.
Mass spectrometry has been a key technology of proteomicbased biological discovery. Two approaches to protein analysis involve either "bottom up", pre-digestion of intact proteins prior to mass spectrometry analysis, or "top down", direct mass spectrometry analysis of intact proteins. 1, 2 When "bottom up" is applied to protein mixtures, it is often known as "shotgun proteomics". Four important steps are involved in shotgun proteomics: (1) protein digestion, (2) peptide separation, (3) peptide fragmentation in the mass spectrometer, and (4) database searching (data analysis). [3] [4] [5] The initial step of protein digestion is often the most critical step as it involves reduction of intact proteins into a collection of peptides of suitable size for mass spectrometry analysis. Proteins exist within cells as tightly associated collections of proteins (complexes) or inserted into lipid bilayers. 6 Effective digestion of proteins often requires dissociation of complexes and denaturation of proteins as well as solubilization of hydrophobic, lipid-bilayer-bound proteins. Urea is a chaotrope used to disrupt intraprotein interactions for more efficient digestion of proteins. 7 Urea is often used to assist in proteolytic digestion of proteins, since it is readily removed by reversed-phase liquid chromatography. Several disadvantages exist in the use of urea for protein denaturation. Proteases are subject to the denaturation effects of urea, so a concentration of urea that still retains protease activity must be identified, and this concentration is often below the desirable concentration to fully denature the protein mixture. 8 Under the influence of heat, urea can decompose to isocyanic acid and carbamylate-free amines in peptides and proteins. Carbamylation can block sites of trypsin digestion or create artefactual modifications of peptides that are difficult to distinguish from naturally occurring modifications such as acetylation and trimethylation. An alternative to urea is the use of detergents like sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) to denature and solubilize proteins, but detergents are notoriously incompatible with reversed-phase liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry and must be removed prior to analysis.
Sorghum crop provides excellent forage in dry land areas. It has ability to tolerate high temperature and grow under minimal soil moisture. Sugar content in Sorghum is of prime importance regarding, animal feed value as well as biofuel production. However, high level of HCN toxin production is a serious problem associated with this crop which could be lethal to animals if ingested in greater quantities. In this study hydrocyanic acid and sugar content dynamics were determined on two forage sorghum cultivars i. 
In the past few years, considerable efforts have been directed towards the further development of Urea-SCR(selective catalytic reduction) technique for diesel-driven vehicle. Although urea possesses considerable advantages over Ammonia(NH₃) in terms of toxicity and handling, its necessary decomposition into Ammonia and carbon dioxide complicates the DeNOx process. Moreover, a mobile SCR system has only a short distance between engine exhaust and the catalyst entrance. Hence, this leads to not enough residence times of urea, and therefore evaporation and thermolysis cannot be completed at the catalyst entrance. This may cause high secondary emissions of Ammonia and isocyanic acid from the reducing agent and also leads to the fact that a considerable section of the catalyst may be misused for the purely thermal steps of water evaporation and thermolysis of urea. Hence the key factor to implementation of SCR technology on automobile is fast thermolysis, good mixing of Ammonia and gas, and reducing Ammonia slip. In this context, this study performs three-dimensional numerical simulation of urea injection of heavy-duty diesel engine under various injection pressure, injector locations and number of injector hole. This study employs Eulerian-Lagrangian approach to consider break-up, evaporation and heat and mass-transfer between droplet and exhaust gas with considering thermolysis and the turbulence dispersion effect of droplet. The SCR-monolith brick has been treated as porous medium. The effect of location and number of hole of urea injector on the uniformity of Ammonia concentration distribution and the amount of water at the entrance of SCR-monolith has been examined in detail under various injection pressures. The present results show useful guidelines for the optimum design of urea injector for reducing Ammonia slip and improving DeNOx performance.
This work aims to develop a multi-component evaporation model for droplets of urea-water-solution (UWS) and a thermal decomposition model of urea for automotive exhausts using the Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) systems. In the multi-component evaporation model, the influence of urea on the UWS evaporation is taken into account using a NRTL activity model. The thermal decomposition model is based on a semi-detailed kinetic scheme accounting not only for the production of ammonia (NH3) and isocyanic acid (HNCO), but also for the formation of heavier solid by-products (biuret, cyanuric acid and ammelide). This kinetics model has been validated against gaseous data as well as solid-phase concentration profiles obtained by Lundstroem et al. (2009) and Schaber et al. (2004). Both models have been implemented in IFP-C3D industrial software in order to simulate UWS droplet evaporation and decomposition as well as the formation of solid by-products. It has been shown that the presence of the urea solute has a small influence on the water evaporation rate, but its effect on the UWS temperature is significant. In addition, the contributions of hydrolysis and thermolysis to urea decomposition have been assessed. Finally, the impacts of the heating rate as well as gas-phase chemistry on urea decomposition pathways have been studied in detail. It has been shown that reducing the heating rate of the UWS causes the extent of the polymerization to decrease because of the higher activation energy.
The thermal degradation products of polyurethanes (PURs) and exposure to isocyanates were studied by stationary and personal measurements in five different occupational environments. Isocyanates were collected on glass fibre filters impregnated with 1-(2-methoxyphenyl)piperazine (2MP) and in impingers containing n-dibutylamine (DBA) in toluene. connected to a glass fibre postfilter. The derivatives formed were analysed by liquid chromatography: 2MP derivatives with UV and electrochemical detection and DBA derivatives with mass spectrometric detection. The release of aldehydes and other volatile organic compounds into the air was also studied. In a comparison of the two sampling methods, the 2MP method yielded about 20% lower concentrations for 4,4'-methylenediphenyl diisocyanate (MDI) than did the DBA method. In car repair shops, the median concentration of diisocyanates (given as NCO groups) in the breathing zone was 1.1 microg NCO m(-3) during grinding and 0.3 microg NCO m(-3) during welding, with highest concentrations of 1.7 and 16 pg NCO m(-3), respectively. High concentrations of MDI, up to 25 and 19 microg NCO m(-3), respectively, were also measured in the breathing zone during welding of district heating pipes and turning of a PUR-coated metal cylinder. During installation of PUR-coated floor covering, small amounts of aliphatic diisocyanates were detected in the air. A small-molecular monoisocyanate, methyl isocyanate, and isocyanic acid were detected only during welding and turning operations. The diisocyanate concentrations were in general higher near the emission source than in the workers' breathing zone. A sampling strategy to evaluate the risk of exposure to isocyanates is presented.
Formally kinetic constants for the autoignition of methane–ammonia–oxygen–nitrogen mixtures were determined. The results obtained allow one to estimate the critical conditions and autoignition delays of the examined mixtures to assess the explosion hazard of reactors for the synthesis of hydrocyanic acid.
Abstract does not appear. First page follows. ::: Introduction ::: In studies on the toxic effect of different concentrations of HCN (hydrocyanic acid) ::: on fumigated insects, determinations of the amounts of the gas absorbed and retained ::: are important. To secure these facts, an accurate method of determining amounts of ::: HCN in the range of 0.005 to 0.200 mg is essential. Extensive preliminary investigations ::: showed that the picric acid method had the greatest promise. ::: Picric acid in alkaline solution has been widely used as a reagent in colorimetry. ::: It has been commonly used in determining soluble sugars in plant extracts and creatinine ::: in animal fluids. In the procedures for determining reducing sugars, the reaction ::: involves the reduction of the nitrophenol to aminophenol. In the presence of reducing ::: sugars, picric acid (trinitrophenol) is reduced to picramic acid when heated in alkaline ::: solution. The same basic reaction is involved in the determination of creatinine. ::: According to the literature, a different reaction occurs between HCN and picric acid ::: in alkaline solution. ::: Hlasiwetz (1859) ::: 5 was the first to note the formation of isopurpuric acid according to the following ::: equation: C6H3N307 + 3KCN + 3H20 ? C8H4KN506 + CO2 + NH3 + 2KOH ::: Picric acid Potassium isopurpurate ::: Rosenthaler (1923), also, noted that blood-red isopurpuric acid is formed when picric acid and KCN are ::: heated in alkaline solution. Some disagreement exists about the formation of isopurpuric ::: acid. According to Chapman (1911), the reaction is identical with the reducing reaction between picric acid and reducing ::: reagents, resulting in the formation of 2-amino-4,6-dinitrophenol.
When steroidal 11α, 12α-, 11β, 12β-, and 9β, 11β-epoxides were each treated with thiocyanic acid, the corresponding thiocyanatohydrins were obtained. The thiocyanato and hydroxyl groups of these ring-fission products were assumed to be trans and diaxial to each other by Barton's generalization, and from infrared and ultraviolet data. This was also confirmed by chemical methods.
Abstract : This report treats of the toxicity of hydrocyanic acid gas on various animals for varying short lengths of exposure. The mode of action, symptoms, pathology, and a review of British and German toxicity figures are also briefly discussed.
The cycloaddition reactions of isocyanic acid and methylenimine leading to four- or six-membered ring products were studied theoretically. If the reaction is equimolar, a two-step mechanism via a cis intermediate is confirmed. The second step is a rate-controlling one with an energy barrier of 28.3 kcal mol−1. In addition, the cis intermediate (INT) can further react with another methylenimine or isocyanate molecule to form a six-membered ring adduct. For the system INT + H2CNH, the energy barrier is only 2.76 kcal mol−1, while for the system INT + HNCO, it is 5.02 kcal mol−1. This is consistent with the experimental fact that when one of the reactants is in excess, a six-membered ring adduct is formed exclusively.
Abstract The infrared spectra of crystalline hydrocyanic acid, HCN, and its deuterium analog, DCN, have been recorded from 33–700 cm−1. Spectral band assignments have been made on the basis of the low-temperature crystalline modification, C20 20. A detailed analysis of the effects of the apparently strong hydrogen bond in HCN was carried out on the basis of the dielectric properties of the system. Evidence is offered to show consistency between the H‒C+˭N− resonance structure proposed by Pauling, the high melting point, the low dielectric constant observed by Smyth and McNeight and the pyroelectric effect reported by Dulmage and Lipscomb.
Tert-octylamine was prepared with di-isobutene and hydrocyanic acid as mine feed.The yield was high.
N-Diphenylmethyl-(1a), N-cyclohexyl-(1c), N-triphenylmethyl-(1d), and N-phenyl-formamide (1e) have been dehydrogenated to give the corresponding isocyanates (2) by treatment with diethyl azodicarboxylate (52–60% yields) or with palladium (8–37% yields). N-Benzylformamide (1b) gave only traces of benzyl isocyanate under both these conditions. N-Diphenylmethylformamide (1a) was also dehydrogenated to give N-formyl-diphenylmethanimine (3a), which dissociated to give benzophenone: N-benzylformimide similarly gave benzaldehyde. The formamides were also decarbonylated by palladium to give amines, and these reacted in situ with the corresponding isocyanate: in this way the formamide (1a) gave NN′-bisdiphenylmethylurea (16), (1c) gave NN′-dicyclohexylurea (17), and (1e) gave NN′-diphenylurea (5e). Other products were obtained: (1c) gave NN′-dicyclohexylformamidine (18), (1d) gave triphenylmethane, isocyanic acid, benzophenone, and triphenylmethanol, and (1e) gave oxanilide (19).Thermolysis of the neat formamides (1a) and (1d) at >220° gave the same products as obtained in the catalysed reactions.
Eleven sorghum forage entries, including five single crosses, five threeway hybrids and DeKalb hybrid SX-17 were evaluated for yield of green forage (GF), yield of dry forage (DF), crude protein (CP) content, CP yield, height, leaf area, number of tillers, leaf-stem ratio and hydrocyanic acid potential (HCN-p) at lsabela, Puerto Rico. Four cuttings were made. The second harvest, 112 days after planting, had the highest DF yield, and the lowest CP content. When data for all harvests were combined, the single cross of ATX624 x Common sudangrass, three-way hybrid (ATX624 x BRhodesian) x Common sudangrass and single cross hybrid ARhodesian x Common sudangrass produced the highest DF yields. These were significantly higher than those of OeKalb hybrid SX-17. The highest DF yield was that from single cross hybrid ATx624 x Common sudangrass (17,303 kg/ha in 217 days), which exceeded by 11% and 13% the 2nd and 3rd highest producers. Based on orthogonal comparisons, single crosses were on the average superior to three-way hybrids in yield and most of the other characteristics studied. Three-way hybrids had a lower average HCN content (250 p/m) than single crosses (285 p/m). These values are slightly higher than the 200 p/m level at which HCN toxicity may begin to affect animals. Results indicate that any of the three top hybrids of this study would be an excellent choice for farmers desiring high forage production under irrigation in Puerto Rico.
A few Pseudomonas species are able to form hydrocyanic acid (HCN), particularly when grown under glycine-rich conditions. In the presence of metals, cyanide can form water-soluble metal complexes of high chemical stability. We studied the possibility to mobilize metals as cyanide complexes from solid minerals using HCN-forming microorganisms. Pseudomonas plecoglossicida was cultivated in the presence of copper- and nickel-containing solid minerals. On powdered elemental nickel, fast HCN generation within the first 12 h of incubation was observed and water-soluble tetracyanaonickelate was formed. Cuprite, tenorite, chrysocolla, malachite, bornite, turquoise, millerite, pentlandite as well as shredded electronic scrap was also subjected to a biological treatment. Maximum concentrations of cyanide-complexed copper corresponded to a solubilization of 42% and 27% when P. plecoglossicida was grown in the presence of cuprite or tenorite, respectively. Crystal system, metal oxidation state and mineral hydrophobicity might have a significant influence on metal mobilization. However, it was not possible to allocate metal mobilization to a single mineral property. Cyanide-complexed gold was detected during growth on manually cut circuit boards. Maximum dicyanoaurate concentration corresponded to a 68.5% dissolution of the total gold added. These findings represent a novel type of microbial mobilization of nickel and copper from solid minerals based on the ability of certain microbes to form HCN.
According to the investigation made in southwest and northwest area in China,the domestic market status and production techniques of the salable downstream products of hydrocyanic acid was summarized,including cyanuryl chloride,triethyl orthoformate,potassium ferrocynide,n-phenylycinonitrile,terl-butylamine,aminodiacetic acid,2-pyrrolidone etc.And the existing problem in production process was comprehensively expounded.It is clear that sodium cyanide tablet is still the most competitive product among them at present.So,it was finally pointed out that to enhance the production techniques and quality of sodium cyanide is the only way to stabilize and expand the market.
The main one-carbon compounds that may have participated in the primitive Earth’s chemical syntheses are methane, carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, formaldehyde, formic acid, formamide, hydrogen cyanide, cyanamide and urea. Except urea, all these compounds are also known to be present in the atmosphere of other planets or in interstellar dust clouds. Some other one-carbon species detected in interstellar medium include methylidyne (CH), methylidyne ion (CH+), cyanogen radical (CN), hydrogen isocyanide (HNC), formyl radical (HCO), formyl ion (HCO+), methyl alcohol (CH3OH), isocyanic acid (HNCO), carbon monosulfide (CS), carbonyl sulfide (OCS) and thioformaldehyde (H2CS). In addition, methyne (CH2), CO 2 + and CO+ have been detected in comets (Oro, 1972; Schwartz, 1981). These highly reactive species are not found in the atmosphere, geosphere, or hydrosphere of the earth, and as such may not have played any significant role in the prebiotic chemistry of our planet--except to form relatively more stable compounds, if they did exist for very short periods.
Carbamoylation is a post-translational modification, playing a role in chronic kidney disease (CKD), comparable to the role of glycation in diabetes mellitus [1, 2] . This non-enzymatic reaction is characterized by a covalent binding of isocyanic acid to the amino group (either the epsilon amino group of lysine residus or the N-terminal amino group) of amino acids, polypetides, and (lipo)proteins. This post-translational molecular modification contributes to the molecular ageing of proteins. Isocyanic acid is formed continuously in an equilibrium reaction with urea or by myeloperoxidase (MPO). MPO is an enzyme (present in e.g., neutrophils, monocytes, and some tissue macrophages) that catalyzes the oxidation of thiocyanate in the presence of hydrogen peroxide, producing isocyanate at inflammation sites (e.g., atherosclerotic plaques) [3] . Plasma isocyanic acid concentrations increase with a declining kidney function [4] .
Solid and liquid wastes are by-products generated during the processing of cassava into flour and starch. Compared to other liquid wastes, cassava mill wastewater has high organic load, linamarin, which is a cyanogenic glycoside that can generate hydrocyanic acid (HCN) and minerals [3, 4] and acidic pH [5] ; therefore it is considered a highly polluting and toxic waste, presenting a serious threat to the environment and the quality of communities living next to cassava mills.
In other studies, significant changes were found in the physicochemical properties of soils located in rural areas of Nigeria, caused mainly by the indiscriminate release of untreated cassava wastewater into soils [4, 5] . The authors observed increased acidity and concentration of hydrocyanic acid in these soils. Soil pH is one of the major factors that influence the availability of nutrients and mineralization of organic matter [11] .
It is well established that chronic kidney disease (CKD) increases the risk for cardiovascular disease (CVD) and that end-stage kidney disease has a 10-30 times increase in cardiovascular risk than the general population [1] . Carbamylation is a nonenzymatic process of chemical modification of proteins by isocyanic acid generated upon dissociation of urea and by the myeloperoxidase-catalyzed oxidation of thiocyanate [2, 3, 4] . In this process isocyanic acid reacts irreversibly with free amino groups and ε-NH2 of lysine residues in proteins [3, 5] . In response to a decline in renal function in uremic patients, accumulation of urea concentrations results in increased levels of isocyanic acid in the blood [6] that promote carbamylation of proteins. High levels of carbamylated LDL (cLDL) have been identified in the plasma of uremic patients compared to the plasma of humans with normal kidney function [7, 8, 9] . Two separate clinical studies involving 1000 subjects revealed that protein-bound homocitrulline (carbamyl-lysine) independently predicted the risk for acute coronary disease or stroke, frequency of death, and frequency of major cardiovascular events [4] . In patients on hemodialysis, the highest tertile of protein carbamylation was associated with a significant higher mortality, and Kaplan-Meier analyses revealed a significant association between elevated protein carbamylation and death over a 5-year follow-up period [9] . In the Accelerated Mortality on Renal Replacement (ArMORR) study, patients who died within 12 months had significantly higher protein carbamylation compared to patients who survived the 12-month period [10] . Similarly, a significant risk of death among 4D subjects was reported with elevated carbamylated albumin [10] . A recent study from 1161 diabetic patients on hemodialysis revealed association of carbamylated albumin with congestion heart failure and sudden cardiac death [11] . In patients with CKD, LDL carbamyl-lysine levels were significant predictors of cardiovascular events and all-cause mortality [12] .
Cyanogenic glucosides are found in plant species of more than 130 families and have important functions in plant defense against herbivores and pathogens [1] [2] [3] . Unfortunately as constituents in plant-based food cyanogenic glucosides are extremely undesirable because they can be converted to hydrocyanic acid, a highly poisonous compound, when encounter glycosidase or under low pH in the digestive tracks of animals [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] . Flax (Linum unsitatissimum) is one of the major economic crops known to possess high level of cyanogenic glucosides, linamarin and lotaustralin [11] . Flax seed is a valuable source of functional food enriched with polyunsaturated alpha-linolenic fatty acid and soluble fiber. Owing to concerns of adversary effects of cyanogenic glycosides, it is generally advised that dietary consumption of flax seed is PLOS ONE | https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0227840 February 5, 2020 1 / 12 a1111111111 a1111111111 a1111111111 a1111111111 a1111111111
These are generally grown in marshy lands, but sometimes also in shady damp places in the forest and in village thickets. In this study, three species of [5] . There is growing industrial interest towards the production of herbal antioxidants that can be supplemented in medicine, cosmetics, and nutraceuticals in the modern world. The tissues of Alocasia contain calcium oxalate crystals, which produce irritation of the skin and inflammations of the oral cavity and mucous membranes. Sapotoxin is also present, and the toxic effects include gastroenteritis and paralysis of the nerve centres. Hydrocyanic acid is often present. The poisonous substances can be removed by repeated cooking, but the rhizomes and bases of petioles of A. macrorrhizos which are sometimes used for food usually contain few poisonous substances. A lectin has been isolated from the rhizome of A. macrorrhizos, which showed potent mitogenic activity on human peripheral blood lymphocytes in the [3H]-thymidine uptake assay. It was a T-cell mitogen and did not induce any appreciable DNA synthesis in B-enriched lymphocytes. This species also contains a protein which inhibits both the enzymes trypsin and chymotrypsin. The seed extract showed antifungal activity. There is also a report on HIV-1 protease inhibitory activity [6] .
The degradation of ammonium polymethacrylate and polymethacrylamide has been studied by a combination of thermal analysis methods (TVA and TG) and examination of volatile and involatile products by infrared analysis. It is shown that total reaction comprises an initial cyclization and further fragmentation of the modified chain at higher temperatures to yield gaseous volatiles. The partially degraded NH4PMA contains anhydride ring and cyclic imide structures in the chain. Quantitative comparison of yields of isocyanic acid and carbon dioxide has shown that imidization is the major reaction and anhydride formation is of less importance. The mechanisms of the various reactions are discussed.
Volatile emissions produced by the burning of fossil fuels may be converted on a catalyst to less harmful products. During lean combustion an excess of oxygen in the exhaust gases together with a catalyst effectively oxidizes carbon monoxide and hydrocarbons into carbon dioxide and water. This leaves a deficit of reductants to reduce nitrous oxides. In order to manage the conversion of nitrous oxides into nitrogen a commonly used technology is selective catalytic reduction (SCR). In the SCR system an extra reductant such as ammonia or hydrocarbons are added to complete the conversion of nitrous oxides over the after treatment catalyst. During the last few years SCR-systems for mobile applications using urea as an onboard source of ammonia have been developed and commercialized. Commonly a solution of urea and water (commercially known as AdBlue) is injected trough an atomizer upstream of the catalyst. ::: However, several problems still exist with the urea-SCR system. During conversion of the urea into ammonia and isocyanic acid stable high molecular compounds that can accumulate within the exhaust gas system may form. The abundance of these by-products depend on the conditions under which urea is injected. In order to optimize spraying conditions new models and deeper understanding of the urea decompositions processes are needed. ::: In this thesis Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) has been used to simulate the injection and decomposition of AdBlue for a urea-SCR application. The results from the simulations were found to be sensitive to which sub models that were used. Especially the amount of AdBlue hitting the wall was found to be strongly dependant on the modeling choices. Further, flow reactor experiments using Differential Scanning Calorimetery and gas phase Fourier Transformed Infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR) have been undertaken to study the pyrolysis of urea. Results show that the conditions under which urea is pyrolyzed governs which by-products are formed.
The oxidation of thiocyanic acid by selenous acid has been shown to take place in an analogous way to that found for selenous acid oxidation of most thiols and thiolates to give the corresponding selenotrisulfide and disulfide products.
Exposure to gas-phase isocyanic acid (HNCO) has been previously shown to be associated with the development of atherosclerosis, cataracts and rheumatoid arthritis. As such, accurate emission inventories for HNCO are critical for modeling the spatial and temporal distribution of HNCO on a regional and global scale. To date, HNCO emission rates from light duty gasoline vehicles, operated under driving conditions, have not been determined. Here, we present the first measurements of real-time emission factors of isocyanic acid from a fleet of eight light duty gasoline-powered vehicles (LDGVs) tested on a chassis dynamometer using the Unified Driving Cycle (UC) at the California Air Resources Board (CARB) Haagen-Smit test facility, all of which were equipped with three-way catalytic converters. HNCO emissions were observed from all vehicles, in contrast to the idealized laboratory measurements. We report the tested fleet averaged HNCO emission factors, which depend strongly on the phase of the drive cycle; ran...
Ammonium [14C]thiocyanate was prepared from potassium [14C]cyanide with a radiochemical yield of 90%. [14C]hydrocyanic acid, generated from potassium [14C]cyanide by sulphuric acid, reacts with aqueous ammonia and elemental sulphur in the presence of trace amounts of ammonium sulphide to yield ammonium [14C]thiocyanate.
The basic substances were obtained from the hydrogenation products of the neutral by-products of acrylonitrile synthesis from acetylene and hydrocyanic acid. They were fractionated by distillation through a Stedmantype column. n-Butylamine and n-amylamine were isolated and identified as derivatives of phenylthiourea. On the basis of chromatograms, i.e., the paperchromatograms of hydrochlorides of amines and chromatograms of N-2, 4-dinitrophenyl-derivatives on the column of cation exchanger, the presence of seven amines, i.e., n-propyl-, n-butyl-, 2-methylbutyl-, n-amyl-, di-n-propyl-, n-heptyl-and benzyl-amines was confirmed and that of two primary heptylamines other than n-heptylamine, i.e., 2-methylhexyl- and 2-ethylamyl-amines, was suggested.
Density functional theory (DFT) calculations using the hybrid functional B3LYP have been performed to investigate the catalytic mechanism of hydroxynitrile lyase from Hevea brasiliensis (Hb-HNL). This enzyme catalyzes the cleavage of acetone cyanohydrin to hydrocyanic acid plus acetone. Two models (A and B) of the active site consisting of 105 and 155 atoms, respectively, were constructed on the basis of the crystal structure. Good consistency between the two models provides a verification of the proposed mechanism. Our calculations show that the catalytic reaction proceeds via three elementary steps: (1) deprotonation of the OH-Ser80 by His235 and concomitant abstraction of a proton from the substrate hydroxyl by Ser80; (2) the C-C bond cleavage of the acetone cyanohydrin; and (3) protonation of the cleaved cyanide by His235. The cleavage of the C-C bond is the rate-limiting step with the overall free energy barrier of 13.5 kcal/mol for relatively smaller model A (14.9 kcal/mol for a larger model B) in the protein environment, which is in good agreement with experimental rate. The present results give support to the previously proposed general acid/base catalytic mechanism, in which the catalytic triad acts as a general acid/base. Moreover, the calculated results for model C, with the positive charge of Lys236 removed from model A, show that Lys236 with the positive charge plays a vital role in lowering the reaction barrier of the rate-determining and helps in stabilizing the negatively charged CN(-) by forming a hydrogen bond with the substrate, consistent with the experimental analysis.
WHEN a seed germinates, we expect the defensive secondary compounds it contains to be transferred intact to the growing seedling, or variously decomposed to produce resources for the growing seedling. The seeds of wild indigenous Costa Rican lima beans (Phaseolus lunatus L.) contain about 3.45% fresh weight of linamarin1, a cyanogenic glucoside that can enzymatically decompose to produce 0.37% fresh weight hydrocyanic acid (HCN). We report here that, after germination, the amount of linamarin in the total seedling (roots, cotyledons, and shoots) remains essentially constant during a 26-day experimental period and moreover corresponds to the amount of linamarin present in the seed before germination (Fig. 1).
Diphenylchloroarsine is readily obtainable in good yield, together with small quantities of phyenyldichloroarsine and triphenylarsine, by oxidation of phenylhydrazine with arsenic acid in presence of a suitable catalyst, followed by treatment with hydrochloric acid. Diphenylcyanoarsine can be prepared in excellent yield either by treatment of the chloro-compound with potassium cyanide or the intermediate diphenylarsenoxide with hydrocyanic acid.
Abstract Cassava leaf meal (CLM), prepared from leaves remaining after the harvest of cassava roots, contained (dry basis): 20·1% crude protein, 30·3% acid detergent fibre, 4·6 Mcal kg −1 gross energy, 1·16% calcium, 0·39 phosphorus and 84·0 mg kg −1 hydrocyanic acid. It was also found to be a good source of essential amino acids, except for methionine, and of trace minerals. Two feeding trials were conducted to study the effects of feeding CLM on the growth of rabbits. In each trial, 24 six-weeks-old crossbred rabbits were individually fed diets containing 0%, 20% and 40% CLM substituted for equal amounts of coconut oilcake in a 16% protein control diet. The results suggest that CLM could be used up to the 40% level in growing rabbit diets without any adverse effects on growth performance or carcass characteristics.
A process for preparing high-purity (more than 99.9%) from hydrocyanic acid orthoformate includes such steps as salting reaction between hydrocyanic acid and relative alcohol or hydrogen halide in inertial solvent, separating solvent, alcoholyzing, separating and distilling.
High intensity ultrasound waves coupled with other form of energy obviously were initiators of pre-biochemical reactions; these reactions occurred in the water masses of the primordial Earth. Essential biological substances like formaldehyde, ammonia, hydrocyanic acid, and amino acids compounds similar to carbohydrates by their properties were synthesized in the field of ultrasound waves in model experiments. The main partners of these reactions are water and gases of reductional atmosphere: hydrogen, carbon monoxide, methane, nitrogen and argon. Formation of amino acids takes place in aqueous solutions of formaldehyde and hydroxylamine. The sonication yielded alanine and glycine, 2.0 x t0 -v and 1.8 x 10 .7 molecules per 100 eV respectively. Our experimental data allows us to consider that ultrasound waves of high capacity can initiate and activate primary chemical reactions and these reactions took place in the hydrosphere of the Earth. We were able to carry out synthesis of essential biological substances in aqueous solutions in the field of ultrasound waves. Ideas about the role of the cavitation in the initiation of chemical processes prompted the development of these studies. The cavitations are formed under ultrasonic irradiation (sonication) of aqueous solutions. Under definite conditions in places of rarefaction, breaks are formed in the sonicated solution with the formation of small cavities. The bubbles are rapidly collapsed in places of compression. The presence of dif- ferent gases in the water facilitates the formation of cavitation to a considerable extent (microscopic gas bubbles make the breaking of liquid easier). Molecules of water or of solute gases which diffuse into the cavitation bubble undergo dissociation, leading to the initiation of chemical reactions (oxidation, reduction and others) (Elpiner, 1973). The molecules of water split into free hydroxyl radicals and hydrogen atoms (Prudhomme and Grabar, 1949). The cleavage of water takes place in presence of inert gases (argon, krypton), too. It likely to assume that cavitation can occur when acoustic or ultrasonic vibration reach definite intensity under natural conditions as well as in the laboratory. According to the calculations made by Gasarian at El'piner's request (El'piner, 1973), during strong seaquakes removal of the seabottom can produce acoustic vibrations with pressure in the wave exceeding the hydrostatic pressure, that must be followed by cavitation. Cavitation may also accompany submarine explosions or the eruption of submarine volcanoes or can be caused by the influence of surface waves of the ocean (Anbar, 1968). All this supports our ideas about direct role of water masses and gaseous substances present in water in the abiogenic synthesis of organic substances on the Earth. Under laboratory conditions, water saturated with carbon monoxide will form
The observations of Treub, Greshoff, Jouck, and other investigators have established the fact that hydrocyanic acid is furnished by a comparatively large number of plants belonging to a wide range of natural orders. Dunstan and Henry have applied to this process the name “cyanogenesis,” and have shown that in many plants the production of hydrocyanic acid is due to the interaction of a cyanogenetic glucoside with a specific enzyme. Thus in Lotus arabicus , the hydrocyanic acid is produced by the decomposition of the glucoside lotusin by the enzyme lotase, in Sorghum vulgare by the action of emulsin on the glucoside dhurrin, and in the seeds of Phoseolus lunatus as the result of the decomposition of phaseolunatin by the enzyme emulsin. The same authors have indicated that similar actions probably take place in cassava ( Manihot utilissim ), Lotus australis and Chailletia cymosa , all of which have been found to yield hydrocyanic acid when crushed in presence of water. The isolation of these cyanogenetic glucosides is often a matter of considerable difficulty, because, as a rule, they are only soluble in water and aqueous alcohol, and it is therefore a troublesome operation to separate them from the associated sugar (usually dextrose) and pectous matter which are also, in general, only soluble in the same solvents. In a few cases it has been found possible to remove dextrose from such mixtures by the action of phenylhydrazine, but this process usually leads to the loss of a portion of the glucoside, owing to partial condensation with the reagent. Some cyanogenetic glucosides are also slightly soluble in ethyl acetate, and this solvent has been employed for the isolation of mandelonitrile glucoside and of dhurrin and phaseolunatin.
This chapter focuses on a number of unclassified enzymes. Rhodanese is found in animal tissues where it converts hydrocyanic acid to rhodanate, provided thiosulfate or colloidal sulfur is present. It occurs especially in kidney and liver and is absent from blood and muscle. Its optimum activity lies at pH 8.3. Rhodanese undoubtedly protects animals against traces of hydrocyanic acid that are produced from certain vegetable foods that contain cyanogenetic glucosides. It is the active agent also in the treatment of cyanide poisoning by injecting sodium thiosulfate. Thiaminase occurs rather commonly among fresh water fishes, but is either less common, or absent, among saltwater species of fish. The bracken fern and the horsetail also contain a thiaminase. Furthermore, researchers have obtained an enzyme from galactose-adapted yeast that converts galactose-1-phosphate into glucose-6-phosphate, with glucose-1-phosphate as an intermediate. Uridine diphosphoglucose is a coenzyme in the conversion of galactose-1-phosphate to glucose-1-phosphate. The enzyme that catalyzes this reaction is called phosphogalactose isomerase and is distinct from phosphoglucomutase.
Abstract Apricot kernel oil was extracted, characterized and evaluated for use in preparing biscuits and cake. The hexane-extracted oil fraction has a light yellow colour and is free from toxic material (hydrocyanic acid). The major fatty acids were oleic, linoleic and palmitic. Chloroform-methanol extracts consisted mainly of neutral lipids in which triglycerides were predominant components. The triglycerides consisted of six types of glycerides. Glycolipids and phospholipids were the minor fractions of the total lipids and their major constituents were acylsterylglycosides (62·3%) and phosphatidyl choline (72·2%), respectively. Evaluation of the crude apricol kernel oil added to different types of biscuits and cake revealed that it has excellent properties and is comparable with corn oil at the same level. It did not affect the flavour, colour and texture of these products.
Aqueous solutions provide a medium for many important reactions in chemical synthesis, industrial processes, environmental chemistry, and biological functions. It is an accepted fact that aqueous solvents can be direct participants to the reaction process and not act only as simple passive dielectrics. Assisting water molecules and proton wires are thus essential for the efficiency of many reactions. Here we study the decomposition of urea into ammonia and isocyanic acid by means of enhanced ab initio molecular dynamics simulations. We highlight the role of the solvent molecules and their interactions with the reactants providing a proper description of the reaction mechanism and how the water hydrogen-bond network affects the reaction dynamics. Reaction free energy and rates have been calculated taking into account this important effect.
Increasing amounts of carbon dioxide are attaining worldwide growing attention as one probable cause for global warming. Together with the expected peak in oil production and an increasing oil demand, this results in a greater interest in more fuel effective lean burn engines (i.e. operation with excess oxygen). Nitrogen oxides are formed during combustion, and the excess oxygen obstructs NOx reduction in a conventional three-way catalyst. One concept for NOx reduction under lean conditions is hydrocarbon-assisted selective catalytic reduction (HC-SCR). In this thesis, two aspects of HC-SCR are studied, namely DME as reducing agent and the reaction mechanism of propene-SCR over a Ag/Al2O3 catalyst. ::: ::: Dimethyl ether is an energy efficient and low CO2 emitting alternative fuel, which can be used in diesel engines. For NOx reduction, however, many HC-SCR catalyst materials show only moderate activity with DME under dry conditions. This activity decreases further by the introduction of water. Comparably high conversions of 28 % NO and 37 % NO2 conversion were obtained in the presence of water over an H-ZSM-5 catalyst in this work. A comparison between H-ZSM 5 and the less acidic Ag/H-ZSM-5 and Ag/Na-ZSM 5 catalysts indicates that the acid sites in the catalyst are crucial since the activation of hydrocarbons and NOx is believed to occur on such sites. ::: ::: Although widely researched for HC-SCR, the reaction mechanism on Ag/Al2O3 catalysts is still not fully understood. With the aim of understanding further details of the role of nitrogen containing compounds, step-response experiments were carried out in a flow reactor and in a Diffuse Reflectance Infrared Fourier Transformed (DRIFT) spectroscopy cell. Hydrogen cyanide (HCN) and isocyanic acid (HNCO) were detected at the same time in the gas phase indicating a similar role in the reaction mechanism. Accumulation and consumption of the corresponding surface species R-CN and R-NCO, however, did not show any correlation to each other. Therefore two parallel reaction pathways for CN and NCO species are proposed, in contrast to literature.
Process for preparing hydrocyanic acid (HCN) by catalytic dehydration of gaseous formamide in the presence of atmospheric oxygen in a reactor having an inner reactor surface made up of a steel containing iron and chromium and nickel, carrying out the process at a pressure of 200 to 250 mbar, and not containing the reactor internals and / or additional catalysts.
Based on the reaction that sulfourea and the sodium nitrite can react to produce Thiocyanicacid and Nitrogen in the actic agent with pH 2～3. The production of Thiocyanic acid can also react with iron trichloride ,and then the red compound was produced, it can be confirmed the content of the sulfourea in the solution of cadmiun plating.
Cyanide (CN) is considered to be a terrorist chemical weapon due to its ready availability in multi-kilogram quantities and multi-modal means of intoxication. The body uses the sulfur transferase enzyme rhodanese to detoxify cyanide via conversion of cyanide to thiocyanate. This paper explores the potential energy surfaces for the conversion of cyanide anion and hydrogen cyanide to thiocyanate anion and thiocyanic acid, respectively. The potential energy surface for the conversion of cyanide anion to thiocyanate shows that the formation of thiocyanate (SCN) is vastly preferred to formation of its isomer SNC. However, the potential energy surface for the conversion of hydrogen cyanide to thiocyanic acid reveals that the formation of HSCN and HNCS would be relatively equal. The failure for analytical methods to detect HNCS is rationalized by the observation that deprotonation of either HNCS or HSCN leads to the same thiocyanate anion.
The detailed reaction pathways for the ammonium cyanate transformation into urea (Wöhler's reaction) in the gas phase, in solution, and in the solid state have exhaustively been explored by means of first-principles quantum chemical calculations at the B3LYP level of theory using the 6-31G(d,p) basis set. This serendipitous synthesis of urea is predicted to proceed in two steps; the first step involves the decomposition of the ammonium cyanate to ammonia and isocyanic or cyanic acid, and the second one, which is the main reaction step (and probably the rate-determining step), involves the interaction of NH(3) with either isocyanic or cyanic acid. Several alternative pathways were envisaged for the main reaction step of Wöhler's reaction in a vacuum involving the formation of "four-center" transition states. Modeling Wöhler's reaction in aqueous solution and in the solid state, it was found that the addition of NH(3) to both acids is assisted (autocatalyzed) by the active participation of extra H(2)O and/or NH(3) molecules, through a preassociative, cooperative, and hydrogen-transfer relay mechanism involving the formation of "six-center" or even "eight-center" transition states. The most energetically economic path of the rate-determining step of Wöhler's reaction is that of the addition of NH(3) to the C=N double bond of isocyanic acid, directly affording urea. An alternative pathway corresponding to the anti-addition of ammonia to the Ctbd1;N triple bond of cyanic acid, yielding urea's tautomer HN=C(OH)NH(2), seems to be another possibility. In the last case, urea is formed through a prototropic tautomerization of its enolic form. The energies of the reactants, products, and all intermediates along with the barrier heights for each reaction path have been calculated at the B3LYP/6-31G(d,p) level of theory. The geometry optimization and characterization of all of the stationary points found on the potential energy hypersurfaces was performed at the same level of theory.
Two premixed laminar pyrrole/oxygen/argon flames at 3.33 kPa (25 Torr) with equivalence ratios of 0.55 (C/O/N = 1:5.19:0.25) and 1.84 (C/O/N = 1:1.56:0.25) have been investigated using tunable synchrotron photoionization and molecular-beam mass spectrometry techniques. All observed flame species, including some nitrogen-containing intermediates, have been identified by measurements of photoionization efficiency spectra. Mole fraction profiles of species including reactants, intermediates, and products have been determined by scanning burner position at some selected photon energies near ionization thresholds, and flame temperature has been measured by a Pt/Pt–13% Rh thermocouple. The results indicate that N2, NO, and NO2 are the major nitrogenous products, while hydrogen cyanide, isocyanic acid, and 2-propenenitrile are the most important nitrogen-containing intermediates in pyrrole flames. Radicals such as methyl, propargyl, allyl, cyanomethyl, n-propyl, isobutyl, cyclopentadienyl, phenyl, cyclohexyl, phenoxy, and 4-methylbenzyl are observed as well. Moreover, ethenol and methylacrylonitrile are also detected. Reaction pathways involving the major species are proposed. The new results will be useful in developing a kinetic model of nitrogenous compound combustion.
1. Different concentrations of hydrocyanic acid gas gave effects ranging from stimulative to depressive. The maximum of beneficial results was secured from concentrations deadly to insect life, but just a little below the point of first injury to the plant. 2. External factors having important action on the resistance are as follows: (a) wetting the leaves had a beneficial effect on the tomato; (b) reduced temperature and low light intensity during the day preceding fumigation increased resistance. 3. Injury closely paralleled the stomatal movement, increasing as the size of stomatal aperture increased. 4. A higher or lower water supply in the soil affected resistance, through hastening or retarding the growth rate. Rapid growing plants were susceptible to injury, while slow growing plants were more resistant. 5. High reducing sugar content seemed to be correlated with maximum resistance.
The reaction mechanisms of HNCO with XCH_2OH(X=CH_3,NH_2,OH,F) are investigated using density functional theory(DFT) at the B3LYP/6-31++G(d,p) level.The transition states of the four reactions are found respectively and verified by frequency analysis.The minimum energy paths(MEP) are affirmed by intrinsic reaction coordinate(IRC) calculation and the imaginary vibration modes are discussed.The energy barriers of these reactions excluding the zero point energy are also calculated.The results show that alcoholysis reaction of isocyanic acid is a nucleophilic addition reaction with XCH_2OH(X=CH_3,NH_2,OH,F) as an electronic donor and isocyanic acid as an acceptor,and that the hydroxyl hydrogen of XCH_2OH plays an important role in the reaction.All the four reactions are exothermal.During the course of each reaction,one σ bond and one π bond are broken,and at the same time,two new σ bonds are formed.The shapes of the transition states and the fourring structures are obviously different because of the differences of the electron-withdrawing ability of the atoms of C,N,O,F in the CH_3CH_2OH,NH_2CH_2OH,OHCH_2OH and FCH_2OH.
Prolonged heating of formamide (HCONH2) at 185°C or 220°C produces a black insoluble product. The FT-IR spectroscopy and the X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) suggest that the product has the chemical structure of a polymer of hydrocyanic acid: (HCN)x. The pyrolysis of (HCN)x prepared from formamide produces a large amount of gaseous HCN in a wide range of temperatures together with ammonia (NH3) and isocyanic acid (H─N─C═O). During the thermal decomposition of formamide to produce (HCN)x, the volatile products evolved were monitored with gas phase infrared spectroscopy. At 185°C, the gaseous product released were CO2, CO and NH3 while at 220°C, also HCN was detected. In both cases, a white sublimate was collected in the upper part of the reaction vessel. It consists of ammonium carbamate and its hydrolysis products ammonium carbonate and hydrogen carbonate. It is therefore possible to synthesize the polymer of hydrocyanic acid (HCN)x starting from formamide avoiding to handle the dangerous hydrocyan...
The predatory behavior and the web structure of Meta menardi were studied, and the natural prey was collected from its webs. This species employed four predatory sequences, Bite-Pull out, Bile-Wrap, Wrap-Bite and Wrap. Wrap-Bite and Wrap were employed to ants and a millipede. Diptera were attacked only by biting. “Wrap” may be the predatory sequence in order to capture millipedes secreting venomous substances such as hydrocyanic acid.
Three bacteria, IC-59, IC-76A and IC-2002, isolated from the nodules of chickpea, were characterized for nodulation, nitrogen fixation, plant growth-promoting (PGP) and yield traits in five cultivars of chickpea such as BG256, RSG888, Subhra, K850 and ICCV2. All the bacteria produced cellulase, protease, β-1,3-glucanase, indole acetic acid, siderophore, hydro cyanic acid and 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate deaminase while none produced lipase and chitinase. The 16 S rDNA gene sequences of IC-59, IC-76A and IC-2002 were found to match closely with Rhizobium pusense, Paraburkholderia kururiensis and Stenotrophomonas maltophilia, respectively. The three bacteria nodulated all the cultivars of chickpea well, amplified nifH gene and fixed nitrogen. Under greenhouse conditions at 30 and 45 days after sowing, treatment of five cultivars of chickpea with bacterial cultures IC-59, IC-76A and IC-2002, enhanced the nodule number (up to 45%, 38% and 43%), nodule weight (up to 31%, 15% and 39%), shoot weight (11%, 16% and 14%) and root weight (37%, 48% and 62%), respectively, over the un-inoculated control. At crop maturity, IC-59, IC-76A and IC-2002 were found to enhance the shoot weight (16%, 40% and 26%), pod number (37%, 69% and 81%), pod weight (17%, 45% and 49%), seed number (21%, 31% and 39%) and seed weight (14%, 56% and 65%), respectively, over the un-inoculated control. Among the five cultivars, Subhra was found to enhance most of the PGP traits when treated with the three diazotrophic bacteria. It is concluded that the three diazotrophic bacteria could be potentially exploited for improving nodulation, nitrogen fixation, PGP and yields of chickpea.
The steam-jet pump was always used in the vacuum system during the operation of the acetone cyanohydrin equipment.But the phenomenon of hydrocyanic acid polymerism was oftentimes encountered in steam-jet pump due to the instability of the vacuum plant,which resulted in the short running period of the equipment and high load to waste a large amount of steam.In other to resolve this issue,the vacuum system was transformed to ensure the long period operation of the equipment under high load.At last,operation effects of the equipment before and after the transformation were analyzed.
The presence of cyanogenic glucosides in white clover (Trifolium repens L.) is an anti-nutritional factor due to the potential for cyanide to pre-dispose selenium deficiency in grazing animals. Considerable genotypic variation in cyanogenesis occurs in white clover and it is important that highly cyanogenic white clover lines are identified to ensure that germpasm used in breeding programs does not lead to the release of cultivars that exceed safe levels. A procedure for rapid semi-quantitative screening of large white clover germplasm collections is described. This procedure is based on the picrate assay and utilises computer imagery and calibration relationships between spectral intensity (red, green, blue bands) of the colour reaction on picrate paper with cyanide in standard solutions to predict hydrocyanic acid concentration in white clover leaf.
The dissociation of singly to triply ionized isocyanic acid (HNCO) has been investigated by two- and three-dimensional covariance mapping techniques through electron impact ionization at an electron energy of 200 eV. The absolute cross sections for the various dissociation channels of up to triply ionized HNCO have been measured. The HNCO dications dissociate mostly into ion pairs, while the HNCO trications dissociate mostly into ion triples, both through all the possible bond cleavages and charge allocations. Some major ion-pair dissociation channels of HNCO2+ are supposed to be sequential dissociation through initial charge separation. The metastable decay traces caused by HNCO(2+)-->H(+)+NCO+ and HNCO(+)-->HCO(+)+N have been observed on the covariance map.
The invention relates to a hydrocyanic acid containing bioresource carbon, and to a method for producing a raw material mainly containing the same by reacting ammonia with methane or methanol optionally in the presence of air and/or oxygen, characterised in that at least one of the reagents selected from ammonia, methane and methanol is obtained from a biomass. The invention also relates to the uses of the raw material for producing acetone cyanohydrin, adiponitrile, methionine or methionine hydroxy-analog, and sodium cyanide.
Sodium dichloroiso-cyanurate and trichloroisocyanuric acid both belong to chlorinated isocyanurates.In 2005,Ministry of Health enacted "The health and safety assessment standards for drinking water disinfectants and disinfection equipment(trial edition)",lists them as disinfectants.In 2007,the United States found that the food contaminated by melamine and cyanuric acid caused cats and dogs acute renal failure.Studies had shown that in the disinfection process chlorinated isocyanurates disinfectants will produce cyanuric acid,and cyanuric acid could be translated into tricyanic acid under appropriate conditions,resulting health worries.This triggered a controversy on the safety of chlorinated isocyanurates disinfectants.This article reviewed the principles of disinfection,potential adverse effects on people health,recent research and applications of them.
The invention discloses a method for preparing a hydrophobic organosilicon/polyamide 6 block copolymer at original position taking end hydroxyl organic silicone oil, diisocyanate and epsilon-caprolactam as raw materials. The method comprises the following steps: adding the diisocyanate into melted dehydrated epsilon-caprolactam, adding the end hydroxyl organic silicone oil for carrying out a hydroxyl-isocyanic acid radical reaction after even mixing to generate end isocyanic acid radical organic silicone oil, then heating up the end isocyanic acid radical organic silicone oil to carry out thereaction of epsilon-caprolactam sealing the end isocyanic acid radical to obtain acylated caprolactam which contains the organic silicone oil and has the action of anionic polymerization catalysis promotion; and finally, adding an epsilon-caprolactam anionic polymerization catalyst to polymerize the rest epsilon-caprolactam to obtain the hydrophobic organosilicon/polyamide 6 block copolymer, wherein the weight ratio of the organic silicone oil to the polyamide 6 is between 4.5 and 40 to 100. The copolymer can be directly cast and formed or be mixed with polyamides for modification. The copolymer has the functions of improving the surface hydrophobicity of materials, and improving the surface lubricity and tenacity.
Aqueous solutions provide a medium for many important reactions in chemical synthesis, industrial processes, environmental chemistry, and biological functions. It is an accepted fact that aqueous solvents can be direct participants to the reaction process and not act only as simple passive dielectrics. Assisting water molecules and proton wires are thus essential for the efficiency of many reactions. Here we study the decomposition of urea into ammonia and isocyanic acid by means of enhanced ab initio molecular dynamics simulations. We highlight the role of the solvent molecules and their interactions with the reactants providing a proper description of the reaction mechanism and how the water hydrogen-bond network affects the reaction dynamics. Reaction free energy and rates have been calculated taking into account this important effect.
Due to electronic resonance effects, urea is stable in water. Nevertheless, understanding the mechanism and kinetics of its decomposition is important in a variety of applications that include agriculture 4 , medical technologies 5 and energy. 6 Urea decomposition is also important in lean-burn automotive exhaust after treatment systems, since an urea-water solution is injected upstream of the deNOx catalyst to generate ammonia for the selective catalytic reduction (SCR) process. [7] [8] [9] Understanding the mechanism of urea decomposition is thus important in the engineering of such devices. Likewise, a comprehensive modelling of the kinetics of urea decomposition in aqueous solutions is necessary for the correct design of associated operation units in the wastewater treatment in chemical, food, and agricultural industries. 10, 11 In nature, urea is hydrolyzed by the urease enzyme, that is present in a variety of plants, selected fungi and bacteria species, yielding carbamic acid (NH2COOH) and ammonia (NH3). 12 However, Alexandrova and Jorgensen 13 have shown that the uncatalyzed decomposition of urea follows a different route, that leads to the formation of isocyanic acid (HNCO) and NH3. This result is consistent with the experimental data of Kieke and coworkers. 14, 15 In their work, they hydrolyzed urea at 473 K (200° C) and 275 bar in 3 an FTIR spectroscopy flow reactor and detected the evolution of CO2 and NCO -concentrations in time.
In the course of experiments with the Rous chicken sarcoma, results were obtained which suggested that infectivity of the filtrates was rather quickly destroyed by oxidation. Since the time of Rous' original work on the tumor it has been recognized that saline filtrates become inactive relatively soon at incubator temperatures, and the similar phenomenon in "primary cultures" of the tumor was ascribed by Gye (1) to oxidation in his first paper. Since that time, however, due in part to the work of Baker (2) on the effect of trypsin in Rous sarcoma filtrates, Gye has inclined to the belief that this "autoinactivation" in saline at 37 ° was due to proteolytic ferments from the tissue acting on a non-living protein specific factor. He has shown (3) that it may be considerably delayed by HCN in small amounts, which he supposes to be due to a poisoning of the enzyme. Hydrocyanic acid in low dilutions, however, is stated by Oppenheimer (4) to have little deleterious influence on proteolytic enzymes, whereas from the work of Warburg and others it is known to inhibit certain oxidative phenomena almost specifically.
Abstract The reaction of nitromethane over Co-ZSM5 has been studied with the aim of establishing the paths by which it can be converted to N 2 under the conditions of the methane-SCR reaction over this type of catalyst. When reacted alone it readily decomposes above 250°C to give CO 2 and NH 3 but the latter is further converted to N 2 at temperatures above 360°C if NO and O 2 are also present. The reaction of ammonia with NO and O 2 is sufficiently fast to account for all N 2 formed. The nitromethane reaction systems are stable above 300°C but below that deactivation sets in after a few hours with isocyanic acid (HNCO) eventually becoming the major nitrogen-containing product. If water is then added to the feed the HNCO is largely hydrolysed to NH 3 and CO 2 and conversion stabilises. Reaction in the presence of water at higher temperature restores the original activity. It is believed that HNCO is the initial decomposition product of nitromethane and deactivation under dry conditions is due to its deposition, possibly as a polymer such as cyanuric acid. Nitromethane also decomposes to CO 2 and NH 3 over alumina, H-ZSM5, and Na-ZSM5 but only the latter shows deactivation. There is even some conversion over silica but with HNCO observable from the beginning and produced in larger amounts than NH 3 below 340°C. Experiments with deuterated nitromethane show that the reaction over Co-ZSM5 has only a small kinetic isotope effect. However, there is rapid H/D exchange between methyl groups and water, most likely via the hydroxyl groups of aci-nitromethane, the enol tautomer of nitromethane. Hydrogen cyanide is a significant minor product over all three zeolite systems at temperatures around 300°C. With Co-ZSM5 its concentration tracks that of ammonia during the course of deactivation and the subsequent enhancement of HNCO hydrolysis when water is added. Nitromethane reacts much faster with NO 2 than with NO and O 2 over all three zeolites with complete conversion at ≈ 220°C to give almost entirely N 2 and CO 2 with Co-ZSM5 and Na-ZSM5 but with CO and N 2 O formed as well over H-ZSM5. NO 2 may act by removal of strongly adsorbed decomposition products (NH 3 or HNCO) since the reaction of NH 3 with NO 2 is very fast with Co-ZSM5 and gives N 2 as the dominant product. The overall findings can be explained in terms of a scheme involving dehydration/hydrolysis reactions, largely on the aluminosilicate surface, followed by conversion of nitrogen-containing species to N 2 on the transition metal. A reaction scheme which can explain the observations has been developed and its implications with respect to the possible involvement of nitrocompounds in the corresponding SCR reactions of higher hydrocarbons over other catalysts is discussed.
Abstract Isoperthiocyanic acid ( I ) decomposes at 184°C in two steps. The first endothermic step corresponds to a breaking of the ring with evolution of one mole of CS 2 per mole of I . Kinetic analysis of this process has been performed using different methods and a nucleation mechanism is proposed. The best fit corresponds to the Avrami bidimensional diffusion controlled equation. The calculated activation energy value is 54 kcal mol −1 . X-ray and IR studies of I and thermal intermediates provided information regarding the possible structure of the reaction products.
Abstract Extraction of titanium(IV) thiocyanate complexes by monooctyl-α-anilinobenzylphosphonate (MOABP) dissolved in chloroform has been investigated as a function of hydrochloric and sulfuric acid concentration. Chloroform solutions follow Beer's law and are stable for at least 24 h. A sensitive and reproducible spectrophotometric determination of titanium is possible. Two complexes were identified; the first formed at acid concentrations less than 1 M, has the ratio Ti:SCN:MOABP 1:1:2 and the second, formed at higher acidity, has the ratio Ti:SCN:MOABP 1:2:2. The method is based on the extraction of titanium thiocyanate with MOABP from either 0.5 M H2SO4, and measurement of the absorbance at 336 nm (ϵ = 11 000 l mol -1 cm -1 ), or from 6.5 M HCl, and measurement of the absorbance at 420 nm (ϵ = 22 000 l mol -1 cm -1 ). The polymerization of thiocyanate has been studied; isoperthiocyanic acid has been identified as the polymerization product. Although both procedures give reproducible results, extraction from 6.5 M HCl is more sensitive, fewer elements interfere, and the precipitation of isoperthiocyanic acid is avoided.
Publisher Summary This chapter discusses the degradation, starting from an aldose, of the acylated nitrile of an aldonic acid. The nitrile and the acyl groups may be removed by various methods to yield a new aldose, or its derivative, with one less carbon atom. A carbon atom of the original sugar is removed in the process and appears in the product as a salt of hydrocyanic acid. Tetraacetyl-D-arabononitrile is degraded to triacetyl-D-erythrose and D-erythrose diacetamide by ammonia–silver oxide. Degradation of tetraacetyl-D-arabononitrile is effected with sodium methoxide and by the hydrolysis of the acetyl groups with sulfuric acid and removal of the nitrile group with silver carbonate. Tetraacetyl-D-xylononitrile is degraded with sodium methoxide and by the hydrolysis of the acetyl groups with sulfuric acid. Degradation of the nitrile with sodium methoxide is effected by the yield of the pentose, which is 40.6% of the initial D-glucose.
Thiocyanic acid condensation on selectively protected ketohexose led to the isolation of five out of the seven possible 1,3-oxazolidine-2-thiones (OZT). The four isomeric spiro-OZT synthesized showed promising biological activity against D-fructose transport.
The 2 + 2 cycloaddition reactions of dihydroxyethyne (4), as a model for a dialkoxyalkyne, with hydroxyketene (5), isocyanic acid (6), formyl isocyanate (7), and isothiocyanic acid (8), as models for heterocumulenes, have been studied by the MNDO method. All the reactions are predicted to take place stepwise through very short-lived dipolar intermediates. Since MNDO tends to describe reactions as non-concerted due to overestimation of interatomic repulsions at distances around the van der Waals separation, these reactions can be properly classified as a borderline situation between a highly non-synchronous concerted mechanism and a stepwise one.
The invention relates to a method and a device for continuously producing D,L-methionine from a hydrocyanic acid mixed gas. The device comprises a hydrocyanic acid synthesis tower, an acid tower, multi-stage serial tank reactors, static mixing reactors and a hydrolysis reactor. The method for continuously producing D,L-methionin comprises the steps of preparing a mixed hydrocyanic acid gas I and a mixed hydrocyanic acid gas II in the hydrocyanic acid synthesis tower and the acid tower, preparing 2-hydroxyl-4-methylmercapto-butyronitrile in the multi-stage serial tank reactors, preparing 5-(2-methylmercapto-ethyl)-hydantoin in the static mixing reactors, and hydrolyzing in the hydrolysis reactor to obtain the D,L-methionine, and further comprises the steps of treating residues, separating products and the like in a combustion furnace, a stripping tower and the like. By the device and the method, a hydrocyanic acid mixing gas and unpurified methylmercapto-propionaldehyde can be easily utilized, and industrial large-scale continuous production can be achieved; the method and the device are low in production cost, has efficient and environment-friendly effects, and is applicable to industrial popularization and application.
FIELD: chemistry. SUBSTANCE: invention relates to a method of producing adiponitrile through double hydrocyanation of a hydrocarbon mixture, which is a C4 petroleum fraction and contains at least one diolefin. The method involves a first hydrocyanation of diolefins by reacting the hydrocarbon mixture with hydrocyanic acid in the presence of a catalyst system, which contains nickel in zero oxidation state and an organophosphorous ligand; extraction of linear unsaturated nitriles from the reaction mixture with formation of a first stream PN1; second hydrocyanation of the PN1 stream in the presence of hydrocyanic acid and a catalyst system, which contains nickel in zero oxidation state, an organophosphorous ligand and a Lewis acid; extraction of unreacted unsaturated nitriles from the reaction mixture through distillation, with formation of a second stream PN2; extraction of formed dinitriles from the catalyst system through liquid/liquid extraction with a hydrocarbon solvent, which allows for extracting an organometallic complex, with formation of a first stream of dinitriles DN1; simultaneous delivery of streams PN2 and DN1 to the distillation stage to obtain a first run F1, which contains the said solvent, and a last run Q1, which contains dinitrile compounds and unsaturated nitriles; delivering the last run Q1 to the second distillation stage to separate unsaturated nitriles, which form a first run F2, from dinitriles which form a last run Q2; taking the last run Q2 to the third distillation stage to obtain a fraction which contains adiponitrile. EFFECT: method involves a sequence of stages for separating different compounds, which eliminates by-products, such as alkyne trimerisation products which are contained in the C4 fraction, and prevents their accumulation in hydrocyanation reactors. 4 cl, 1 dwg
Abstract The reaction of nitroethane with NO in the presence of O 2 has been investigated over Cu-MFI. For short periods on-line, conversion is complete above 250°C with CO 2 and N 2 as the products. However, at temperatures below 330°C accumulation of deposits leads to deactivation with the appearance of isocyanates and CO. FTIR gas analysis confirms the formation of toxic methyl isocyanate (CH 3 NCO), with yields approaching 25% along with smaller amounts of isocyanic acid (HNCO). Nitromethane reacts similarly but deactivation to give HNCO alone is an order of magnitude slower. Emergence of HNCO is accompanied by significant amounts of HCN and NH 3 . Nitroethane reacts in O 2 alone in a manner similar to that in NO/O 2 but with less than half the initial N 2 yield. Deactivation is faster and small amounts of HCN and NH 3 appear concurrently with CH 3 NCO and HNCO. In the nitroethane system, HNCO, HCN, and NH 3 arise from decomposition of deposited material as demonstrated by the temperature–programmed decomposition in helium. The main reaction pathway with the two nitrocompounds appears to be rearrangement followed by dehydration to the corresponding isocyanate and hydrolysis to amine (or ammonia), with the latter steps proceeding on Bronsted acid sites. Nitrogen is then formed by reaction with NO/O 2 on the transition metal as in the ammonia-selective catalytic reaction which is fast over Cu-MFI. A parallel route to N 2 involves reaction of NO 2 with deposited material but this can occur only as long as the catalyst retains activity for the oxidation of NO. Otherwise deactivation ensues with appearance of isocyanate. Selective catalytic reduction of NO using ethane over Cu-MFI in excess O 2 yields some NO 2 in which case the various reactions involving nitroethane would be sufficiently fast for it to be an intermediate in this system.
An empirically based relationship between overall complex stability (−ΔG°) and various possible component interactions is developed to probe the question of whether the A·T/U and G·C base-pairs exhibit enhanced stability relative to similarly hydrogen-bonded complexes. This phenomenological approach suggests ca. 2−2.5 kcal mol-1 in additional stability for A·T owing to a group interaction containing a CH···O contact. Pairing geometry and the role of the CH···O interaction in the A·T base-pair were also probed using MP2/6-31+G(d,p) calculations and a double mutant cycle. The ab initio studies indicated that Hoogsteen geometry is preferred over Watson−Crick geometry in A·T by ca. 1 kcal mol-1. Factors that might contribute to the preference for Hoogsteen geometry are a shorter CH···O contact, a favorable alignment of dipoles, and greater distances between secondary repulsive sites. The CH···O interaction was also investigated in model complexes of adenine with ketene and isocyanic acid. The ab initio calcul...
AbstractPyrolysis of nitrogen containing biofuels generates isocyanic acid (ICA) and we here studied if ICA also is present in cauterization smoke. Air sampling was performed when animal technician...
Quantum chemical calculations at the B3LYP/6-31+G∗∗ and MP2/6-31+G∗∗ levels were employed to characterize proton transfer from hydrogen cyanide (HCN), hydrogen isocyanide (HNC), and acetic acid (CH3COOH) to ammonia (NH3) in clusters with up to 14 H2O molecules in order to model behavior in amorphous icy grain mantles. In keeping with previous work on cyanic acid (HOCN), isocyanic acid (HNCO), and formic acid (HCOOH), the calculations found that a proton transfers from the acids to NH3 with no barrier in clusters of sufficient size to form solvated anion complexes with NH4+. The infrared band origins and intensities for characteristic vibrational motions of the acetate and cyanide anions are identified in order to provide guidance for experimental studies and astronomical observations.
A process for the preparation of N-hydrocarbyl- substituted primary amines in the form of N-hydrocarbyl formimidate ester by the alkylation of hydrocyanic acid. The process comprises contacting a nonconjugated olefin with hydrocyanic acid and hydrogen fluoride in the presence of an alcohol or mercaptan.
The hydrocyanic acid potential (HCN-p) of sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] plants is recognized as a heritable trait, but previous tudies on the mode of inheritance of HCN-p have produced inconsistent results. The objective of this study was to investigate the inheritance patterns of seedling HCN-p and also of seed weight in reciprocal crosses of sorghum and sudangrass [formerly S. sudanense (Piper) Stapf]. Both traits were found to be inherited quantitatively. Generation means analysis indicated that additive genetic effects were most important for both seed weight (53% of variation) and seedling HCN-p (74% of variation). A maternal effect was found for both traits in the F~ and backcross generations. No evidence of this reciprocal effect was found in the F2, suggesting that cytoplasmic inheritance was not involved. A highly positive correlation between seed weight and HCN-p was found across all entries, across both parents, and in the F~ and backcross generations. However, correlation coefficients between seed weight and seedling HCN-p for individual entries, the pooled F2’S, or within types of seed parents in the F~ or backcross generations were generally nonsignificant. It was concluded that seed weight per se does not have a large effect on seedling HCN-p. Additional index words: Dhurrin, Prussic acid, Sorghum blcolor (L.) Moench, S. sudanense (Piper) Stapf. p REVIOUS studies of the inheritance of the cyanogenic glucoside, dhurrin [p-hydroxy-(S)-mandelonitrile-#-D-glucoside], in sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] have not yielded consistent results. Nass (17) in 1972 reviewed published reports on the inhero itance of cyanogenesis in sorghum, various Lotus species, and white clover (Trifolium repens L.), and concluded that the situation in sorghum was more complex than that in other species. The studies agreed that the dhurrin content or hydrocyanic acid potential (HCNp) of sorghum leaves was a heritable trait, but disagreed on the presence or absence of dominance, dominance of high or low HCN-p, and the number of genes involved. Krauss (14), in a study not included in Nass’s review, concluded that HCN-p was conditioned by four genes with additive effects without dominance. Other studies conducted since Nass’s review reported different conclusions on the importance of additive and nonadditive effects (2, 4, 9). Recently, Gorz et al. (10) found that seedlings of sorghum lines KS8 and N32 were high in HCN-p, but the HCN-p of flag leaves from field-grown plants of KS8 was only about 1/10 as high as that of N32 flag leaves. A single gene pair was found to be primarily responsible for the large difference in mature leaves, and neither low nor high HCN-p was completely dominant. The lack of agree~ Contribution from the USDA-ARS and the Nebraska Agric. Res. Div., Lincoln, NE 68583. Published as Paper no. 8119, Journal Series, Nebraska Agaric. Res. Div. Research was conducted under Project 12-114. Recetved 7 Aug. 1986. -~ Former graduate research assistant, George Holmes professor of agronomy, and supervisory research geneticists, USDA-ARS, respectively. Published in Crop Sci. 27:522-525 (1987). ment among these studies was no doubt due in part to differences in lines or cultivars used, conditions of growth, types of tissue assayed, and the analytical procedures used. The primary objective of the present study was to investigate the inheritance of seedling HCN-p in crosses of grain sorghum and sudangrass [formerly S. sudanense (Piper) Stapf] lines. The sudangrass lines had been selected for low HCN-p; crosses of these lines to the high-HCN-p sorghum lines provided a wider range in HCN-p than was possible in most of the previous studies of HCN-p inheritance. Also, this study utilized the spectrophotometric assay described by Gorz et al. (8). This assay is independent of the activity of catabolic enzymes in the plant. MATERIALS AND METHODS Four inbred parental lines were used in this study. Two were lines from sudangrass populations, and two were grain sorghum cultivars. The two sudangrass lines, 81-1901-7 and 81-1904-74, hereafter referred to as 1901 and 1904, respectively, were selected primarily for low HCN-p. Both lines carried the ms3 gene for genetic male sterility (gms); this recessive gene caused 25 to 30% of the plants in each line to be sterile. Both sudangrass lines also restored fertility when crossed with cytoplasmic-male-sterile (cms) sorghum lines having A1 cytoplasm. The population from which line 1901 was selected has since been released and registered as NP25 low-dhurrin sudangrass germplasm (12). Line 1904 was selected from a population with most of its background from ’Piper’. Both 1901 and 1904 are very low in seedling HCNp compared to commercially available sudangrasses, and they are considered to be homozygous for low HCN-p. The two grain sorghums used were ’Redlan’ and ’Combine Kafir 60’ (CK60). A-lines (A 1 cytoplasm) and B-lines of these cultivars have been maintained for at least 10 yr by making paired crosses annually to produce A-line seed and also selfing the B-line plants used in the A-line crosses. The lines are considered to be homozygous for high seedling HCN-p. All possible crosses, including reciprocals, were made among the four parental lines. Crosses were made using gms plants from the sudangrass lines and cms plants from the sorghum cultivars as females. Use of these male-sterile plants allowed for production of a large number of FI seeds with minimal risk of contamination during crossing. The FI plants were selfed to produce F2 seed, and were also used as pollen sources in backcrosses to gms sudangrass and cms sorghum parental plants. To get backcross seed from the sorghum × sorghum F~’s, the cms hybrids were used as females, and pollen was taken from the parental sorghum B-lines. All crosses were made at the University of Nebraska Agronomy Farm, Lincoln, NE, in the summers of 1982 and 1983 or in the greenhouse in early 1984. All seedlings analyzed in the laboratory were grown from seed produced either in the field in 1983 or in the greenhouse in early 1984. In total, 52 entries were assayed in the laboratory, including 12 F~’s, 10 F2’s, 24 backcrosses, and 6 parental lines (1901, 1904, ARedlan, BRedlan, ACK60, and BCK60). Twenty-five seed packets were prepared for each of the 52
Thermal decomposition of urea in ethylene glycol with formation of isocyanic acid and ammonia was studied at the B3LYP/6-311++G(df,p) level of theory. The decomposition process is efficiently catalyzed by monomeric and dimeric forms of ethylene glycol. Ethylene glycol dimer formed via intermolecular hydrogen bonding is a stronger acid than the monomeric species, which is responsible for the higher catalytic activity of the former. Ethylene glycol associates efficiently catalyze addition of ammonium to isocyanic acid in the synthesis of ethylene carbonate.
Various methods could be used to reduce or remove the cyanogenic glycosides compounds in the flaxseed. Wanasundara et al. (1993) investigated the use of solvents extraction as a method to reduce cyanogenic glycosides content of flaxseed meal. They found that extraction of flaxseed with alkanol-ammonia-water/hexane resulted in enhanced removal of cyanogenic compounds from 41 to 16 mg/100 g (total cyanogenic glycosides as HCN equivalents) compared to using hexane alone. Also, they found that cyanogenic glycosides could be further removed by increasing solvent volumes, duration of the extraction period and number of extraction stages. Feng et al. (2003) reported that autoclaving and microwave heating reduced hydrogen cyanide of flaxseed by 29.7 and 83.2 %, respectively. Imran et al. (2013) found that cyanogenic compounds, measured as hydrocyanic acid (HCN), in full-fat flaxseed were reduced from 60.8 to 86.6 % using extrusion processing. Optimum extrusion conditions of barrel exit temperature, screw speed, and feed rate were found to be 143.6°C, 133.5 rpm, and 57.8 kg/h for maximum (89.1 %) reduction of HCN.
Pyrolysis of nitrogen containing biofuels generates isocyanic acid (ICA) and we here studied if ICA also is present in cauterization smoke. Air sampling was performed when animal technicians that had developed airway symptoms worked with dehorning. Tissue heated in a laboratory model was used to mimic cauterization. ICA in air at the workplace exceeded 10 times the national exposure limit. In the laboratory, the ICA generated per mg tissue from heated hair, horn and nail was 13.9 ± 7.8, 24.0 ± 4.1 and 32.0 ± 2.9 mg, respectively. Three workers were medically examined and two were diagnosed with asthma and a third had severe airway problem that resembled asthma. The study shows that high levels of ICA are generated during cauterization of nitrogen-containing tissue. If this could trigger airway symptoms deserves to be investigated further.
The monoisocyanates isocyanic acid (ICA) and methyl isocyanate (MIC) are highly reactive electrophilic compounds that in the body will cause damage to and dysfunction of proteins. [1] [2] [3] ICA is a strong organic acid that, together with other pollutants, has been found in fire smoke, diesel emissions and in emissions from heated products that contain urea-formaldehyde resins as binders. [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] ICA and hydrogen cyanide (HCN) have been shown during high-temperature pyrolysis of biofuels with a nitrogen content that varied between 2.9 and 15.5%. The formation of ICA did then increased proportionally with the nitrogen content of the fuel and no ICA was found from bark with only 0.4% nitrogen. 10 The chemistry behind the formation of ICA under these conditions is complex. It is however likely that the heating or combustion of nitrogen-containing products first gives rise to HCN, (together with ammonia or possibly other nitrogen-containing gases) and that this HCN then via the intermediate hydrogen isocyanide, is oxidized to ICA. [11] [12] [13] Electrocautery is a commonly used technique in hospitals and veterinary stations. The procedure will cause vaporization of tissue protein and create a smoke that contains high levels of ultrafine particles and several toxic volatile compounds. 14 This surgical smoke is an acknowledged risk and does therefore have to be evacuated with an appropriate exhaust ventilation system. 15, 16 As the burnet tissue contains proteins with on average 15% nitrogen, surgical smoke has also been found to contain HCN. 17 Other situations where nitrogen containing tissue is burnt are during hot iron dehorning of calves and hot shoeing of horses. Dehorning of cattle conveys many benefits and is therefore performed worldwide. In the United States, 94% of dairy cattle producers do this and the majority (68%) does then use hot iron dehorning. 18 The procedure is performed by veterinarians or specially trained animal technicians but is also often carried out by the farm owner. 19 We have recently examined workers (animal technicians) that have been exposed to dehorning smoke and that all develop severe respiratory symptoms. As isocyanates are asthmagenic and ICA previously have been found after high-temperature pyrolysis of nitrogen containing biofuels we have here studied if ICA, MIC and HCN also is generated during hot iron cauterization of calves (dehorning) and if it is present in the smoke Figure 1A) . The temperature at the horn bud during dehorning was measured with an infrared-thermometer (Fluke 62 MAX, IR Thermometer) and was close to 500 C.
The hydrocyanic acid potential (HCN-p) of sorghum (Sorghum bieolor (L.) Moench] plants is recognized as a heritable trait, but previous studies on the mode of inheritance of HCN-p have produced inconsistent results. The objective of this study was to investigate the inheritance patterns of seedling HCN-p and also of seed weight in reciprocal crosses of sorghum and sudangrass (formerly S. sudanense (Piper) Stapf). Both traits were found to be inherited quantitatively. Generation means analysis indicated that additive genetic effects were most important for both seed weight (53% of variation) and seedling HCN-p (74% of variation). A maternal effect was found for both traits in the F, and backcross generations. No evidence of this reciprocal effect was found in the F 2, suggesting that cytoplasmic inheritance was not involved. A highly positive correlation between seed weight and HCN-p was found across all entries, across both parents, and in the F, and backcross generations. However, correlation coefficients between seed weight and seedling HCN-p for individual entries, the pooled F 2 's, or within types of seed parents in the F, or backcross generations were generally nonsignificant. It was concluded that seed weight per se does not have a large effect on seedling HCN-p. Additional index words: Dhurrin, Prussic acid, Sorghum bieolor (L.) Moench, S. sudanense (Piper) Stapf. P REVIOUS studies of the inheritance of the cyanogenic glucoside, dhurrin [p-hydroxy-(S)-mandelonitrile-~-D-glucoside], in sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] have not yielded consistent results. Nass (17) in 1972 reviewed published reports on the inher-
A model study of droplet decomposition of a urea–water solution (UWS) for selective catalytic reduction applications (SCR) has been undertaken. A new vapour pressure equation for urea has been adopted to predict the rate of urea evaporation. The vapour pressure above liquid urea is obtained by extrapolating the vapour pressure above solid urea. Gas phase decomposition of urea into ammonia and isocyanic acid is further assumed to be fast, dictating the boundary conditions for the evaporation process. The rate of UWS evaporation is compared to recently published data and shows good agreement. A set of Antoine parameters was fitted to the derived vapour pressure to facilitate future simulations.
Derivatives of Halogenated Aldehydes. XV. Derivatives of Aryl 3,3,3-trichloro-2-hydroxy-propyl Ketones ::: ::: ::: ::: From aryl 3,3,3-trichloro-2-hydroxy-propyl ketones 1a–e, the oximes 6a–e, phenylhydrazones 5a–e, aryl 2,3,3,3-tetrachloro-propyl ketones 3b–d and aryl 3,3,3-trichloropropen(1)-yl ketones 2a–e are prepared. The phenylhydrazones 5a, b form the substituted Δ3-1,2,4-triazolines 4a, b by treatment with thiocyanic acid.
Abstract Ultrasound-assisted emulsification microextraction (USAE-ME) procedure coupled with UV–vis spectrophotometric measurement has been developed for determination of thiocyanate ion (SCN−) in water and biological fluids samples. The method is based on protonation of SCN− ions in acidic medium and extraction of thiocyanic acid into fine droplets of chloroform as an extraction solvent contains rhodamine B (RhB). The RhB was protonated in presence of thiocynanic acid to form highly colored ion-pair complex of [thiocynate][RhBH+] in chloroform, which used for subsequent spectrophotometric determination of SCN− ions. Experimental parameters for both spectrophotometric reaction and USAE-ME procedure have been optimized. Under optimized conditions the calibration curve for SCN− showed good linearity in the range of 38.0–870.0 ng mL−1 (R2 = 0.9967). The limit of detection (S/N = 3) and preconcentration factor were 5.0 ng mL−1 and 40, respectively. Relative standard deviation for determination of 200 ng mL−1 of SCN− was 2.8% (n = 5). The proposed method has been successfully applied for determination of SCN− ion in tap water, mineral bottled water and human saliva and urine samples with an average recovery of 99.2%.
The dura and tenera varieties of the oil palm from Calaro Oil Palm Estate, Akamkpa in Cross River State, Nigeria and NIFOR Experimental Oil Palm Station, Abak in Akwa Ibom State, Nigeria were studied to evaluate their proximate, mineral, toxicant and fatty acid compositions. These parameters were determined for both undefatted and defatted samples. The defatted samples had higher nutrient levels than the undefatted ones. The dura variety had a higher moisture content than the tenera in both locations. Antinutrients, such as hydrocyanic acid and total oxalate, were also higher in the dura variety than the tenera. The mineral analysis of the samples showed high levels of magnesium, manganese, iron, copper, zinc, phosphorus, sodium and potassium. The tenera variety showed higher values of most of these minerals than the dura in both of the locations. Palm kernel therefore appears to be a good source of these mineral elements. Phytate and lead were not detected in any of the samples. The fatty acid profile indicated lauric (C 12:0), oleic (C 18:1) and palmitic (C 16:0) to be the major constituent fatty acids of the palm kernel oil samples. There were no significant differences in fatty acid composition between the varieties or locations.
The present invention provides a method for preparing 4-chloro-3-hydroxy butyronitrile, comprising a) a basic catalyst with a mixture of epichlorohydrin, epichlorohydrin molar ratio: hydrocyanic acid = 1:1.0-1.5 added mass percent of synthesis of 4-chloro-3-hydroxybutyronitrile of 50% -100% of hydrocyanic acid; 2) after the reaction solution was adjusted to a weakly acidic with an acid to give 4-chloro-vacuum distillation -3 - hydroxy Ding Jing products. Unreacted epichlorohydrin can be recycled. The present invention is a high yield, low cost, less waste.
Ferrocyanide ion behaves as a tetravalent Bronsted base and can react with four protons, forming ferrocyanic acid. By potentiometric and spectrophotometric techniques it is shown that the first two protonation equilibria overlap, as do the third and fourth equilibria. The two techniques yield identical results when processed with the inclusion of non-ideality terms. The method of "separation of equilibria" is proposed to allow separate study of each of the overlapping equilibria. Values of pK1 = −2.54 ± 0.10, pK2 = −1.08 ± 0.03, pK3 = 2.65 ± 0.02, and pK4 = 4.19 ± 0.02 were obtained.
The high temperature kinetics of NH in the pyrolysis of isocyanic acid (HNCO) have been studied in reflected shock wave experiments. Time histories of the NH(X3Σ−) radical were measured using a cw, narrow-linewidth laser absorption diagnostic at 336 nm. The second-order rate coefficients of the reactions: ::: ::: ::: (1) ::: ::: ::: ::: were determined to be: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: cm3−mol−1−s−1, where f and F define the lower and upper uncertainty limits, respectively. The data for k1a are somewhat better fit by:
The invention discloses a production method of almond powder, which belongs to the technical filed of food processing. The method comprises the following steps: fast peeling almonds by a peeling machine immediately after the almonds are fast steamed by steam; carrying out baking and cold pressing on the almonds until the residual oil content is lower than 10 percent; adding water after the pulverization for preparing materials into paste; grinding the paste; adding warm water; carrying out centrifugation for removing slag; carrying out further centrifugation on supernatant fluid for degreasing; adding emulsifying agents into obtained clear liquid; and obtaining the almond powder through concentration and spray drying. The invention adopts a steam fast steaming peeling method, has low damage degree on the almonds, has the peeling rate higher than 98 percent, and effectively prevents the almond protein denaturation. The almonds are firstly soaked, and then carry out zymohydrolysis detoxication through emulsion, the detoxication time is obviously shortened, the water consumption is saved, the detoxication rate can be higher than 97 percent, and the hydrocyanic acid content in final products of the almond powder is reduced to 2.0 mg/kg. Various indexes such as sensory properties, solubility, protein content and the like of products of the invention are all superior to those of similar products in the existing market.
Abstract Literature values of water-solvent partition coefficients for un-dissociated hydrazoic acid, isocyanic acid and isothiocyanic acid have been used to obtain properties or ‘descriptors’ of the three acids. These descriptors can be used in linear free energy relationships that we have already obtained to predict further values of partition coefficients for a very large number of solvents. The descriptors include the hydrogen-bond acidity, A, and hydrogen-bond basicity, B, of the acids. We have also used literature values of equilibrium constants for 1:1 complexation of the acids with a number of bases to obtain values of our 1:1 hydrogen-bond acidity, αH2. There is very good agreement between the two sets of hydrogen-bond acidity. Isothiocyanic acid is a strong hydrogen-bond acid about the same as chloroacetic acid, isocyanic acid is about as strong as acetic acid and hydrogen azide is a moderate-to-weak hydrogen bond acid. The hydrogen-bond basicity of the three acids is very small.
When azodicarbonamide is decomposed in the temperature range 165–195°, gas is evolved and a white sublimate and a white residue are formed. The gas consists of nitrogen and carbon monoxide together with a third component, which is isocyanic acid at lower and ammonia at higher temperatures. The sublimate consists of cyanuric acid, cyamelide, and urea, and the residue is a mixture of biurea, cyanuric acid, and urazole. Two main primary reactions appear to take place concurrently. In the first azodicarbonamide decomposes to form biurea, nitrogen, and isocyanic acid, and in the second to form urazole, nitrogen, isocyanic acid, and ammonia. At 171. 5° the first mode of decomposition is twice as frequent as the second. Cyanuric acid, cyamelide, carbon monoxide, and ureal all appear to be products of secondary reactions involving isocyanic acid. On prolonged heating at higher temperatures the biurea initially formed decomposes into urazole and ammonia. When the quantity of gas evolved is determined as a function of time, and S shaped cureve is obtained with a long linear centre portion. This near constant rate of decomposition over the main part of the reaction has an activation energy of 228 kJ mol–1 and is accounted for by a one-dimensional propagation of the decomposition through the crystal lattice.
The vapour-phase photolysis of isocyanic acid has been studied at 30°C. The results have been explained by a mechanism involving alternative primary dissociations of isocyanic acid : [graphic omitted] I1/I2 increases with decreasing wavelength. Subsequent reactions of these radicals lead to the formation of CO, N2, H2 and solid polymer. The gaseous products were formed approximately in the ratio of 3 : 1 : 1.
Polyurethanes are widely used in car paint formulations. During thermal degradation, such polymeric systems can generate powerful asthmatic sensitizing agents named isocyanates. In body repair shops, the thermal degradation of car paint can occur during abrasive processes that generate enough heat to involve release of isocyanates in air. An environmental monitoring study was performed in two body repair training schools and in a body repair shop to evaluate the workers' exposure to isocyanates during cutting, grinding and orbital sanding operations. For sampling, cassettes containing two 1-(2-methoxyphenyl)piperazine (MOPIP)-coated glass fiber filters (MFs) ( approximately 5 mg of MOPIP per filter) and bubblers containing 15 ml of MOPIP solution in toluene (1.0 mg ml(-1)) backed at the outlet with cassettes containing two MFs were used. Tandem mass spectrometry was used to analyze the MOPIP derivatives of isocyanic acid (HNCO), all the linear aliphatic isocyanates ranging from methyl isocyanate (Me-i) to hexyl isocyanate, all the alkenyl isocyanates ranging from propylene isocyanate to hexylene isocyanate, 1,6-hexamethylene diisocyanate (HDI), trans- and cis-isophorone diisocyanate (IPDI), 2,4- and 2,6-toluene diisocyanate (TDI), 2,4'-; 2,2'- and 4,4'-methylenediphenyl diisocyanate (MDI), phenyl isocyanate (Ph-i) and p-toluene isocyanate (p-Tol-i). The instrumental detection limits (LOD) were in the 0.13-0.75 microg of NCO per m(3) range for 15 l air samples converted into 3 ml liquid samples. The isocyanate concentrations detected in the workers' breathing zone were in the 1.07-9.80 microg of NCO per m(3) range for cutting, 0.63-3.62 microg of NCO per m(3) range for grinding and 0-1.29 microg of NCO per m(3) range for sanding. However, a rapid decrease of the isocyanate concentration was observed while moving away from the emission source. Among the isocyanates detected the most abundant were the monomers (MDI, HDI, TDI and IPDI) and Me-i.
Recently, Tsipis and Karipidis [14] studied the mechanism of the Wo¨hler reaction using ab initio calculations, and concluded that, both in vacuum and in the crystal, the first step of the reaction in vacuum is the transfer of a proton from the ammonium ion to the cyanate ion to form isocyanic acid HNCO, as suggested previously [3, 4] . This step is followed by addition of an ammonia molecule to the N C double bond. It is plausible that the proton transfer step in the reaction in the crystal may be facilitated by rotation of the ammonium ion about an N H bond.
hemical warfare agents by convention are classified as lethal nerve, vesicant, blood, or pulmonary agents. Nerve agents, G-series (Sarin (GB), Cyclosarin (GF), Soman (GD), Tabun (GA), and V-series (VE, VG, VM, VX), all disrupt neurological regulation within biological systems through the inhibition of the enzyme acetylcholine esterase [1] . Vesicant agents (also known as bifunction alkylating agents) sulfur mustards (H, HD, HS), lewisite (L), nitrogen mustard gas (HN), and phosgene-oxime (CX) are the agents typically responsible for detrimental reactions with deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and intracellular glutathione (GSH) [2] . Blood born agents, such as prussic acid (AC) or cyanogen chloride (CK), prevent tissue utilization of oxygen by inhibition of the enzyme cytochrome oxidase [3] . Pulmonary agents, chlorine gas (C), chloropicrin (PS), diphosgene (DP), and phosgene (CG,) all react with water to form hydrochloric acid and carbon monoxide to cause pulmonary edema [4] . Environment neutralization of these CWA typically involves the degradation of the parent compounds to yield various hydrolysis products [5] [6] [7] . The G-series nerve agents, which include GB, GF, GD, and GA, rapidly hydrolyze to form various alkyl phosphonic acids [8] , whereas V-series nerve agents VE, VG, VM, and VX degrade to not only form alkyl phosphonic acids but phosphonothioic acids and various alkyl amino ethanol compounds [9] . The common sulfur and arsenic containing vesicants H, HD, HS, and L typically degrade to produce various sulfides, thiodiglycols, sulfones, and vinyl arsonous products, respectively [10] . Blood-born agents such as AC initially hydrolyze to formamide, and subsequently to ammonium formate, while CK readily hydrolyzes to hydrogen chloride and unstable cyanic acid. The cyanic acid further decomposes to carbon dioxide and ammonia [11] . Lastly, the pulmonary agents C, PS, DP, and CG as mentioned above hydrolyze into hydrochloric acid, hydrochlorous acid, carbon monoxide, and carbon dioxide [12] .
Common vetch (Vicia sativa L.) is widely cultivated in the Russian regions with different climate and edaphic conditions, whereupon a significant plant polymorphism and specific adaptation to environment and cultivation technologies are observed. Recently, a new breeding approach is being developed to created vetch varieties for grain forage use. Since 2002, a new such variety, the Lugovskaya 98, is recorded in the State Register of Selection Achievements of the Russian Federation. This variety differs significantly from those cultivated for green fodder. Particularly, there is no hydrocyanic acid which is the main anti-nutrienent, and the level of trypsin inhibitors is reduced allowing the seeds of Lugovskaya 98 vetch to be used as protein source in animal feeds with no extra processing. In vetch pure stands a significant lodging occurs due to peculiar architectonics and biological peculiarities of plant growth under temperate climate. This necessitates vetch cultivation in the mixes with support crops. A complementary support crop and its stand density must be selected specifically in accordance with local soil and climatic conditions. We compared vetch Lugovskaya 98 seed yield formation in binary agrocenoses with different crops under stand density gradients and found those mostly complementary to vetch with regard to seed yield and quality. Plant allelopathic interactions were shown to begin during early ontogenesis. At high sowing rate of oats (Avena sativa L.) the vetch plant death increased up to 7-9 % compared to 3-4 % in the vetch pure stands. Vetch young growth was also 6 to 7 % suppressed in the mixes with white mustard (Sinapis alba L.). In contrary, Phacelia tanacetifolia had no effect on vetch young growth and juvenile plants. Generally, the vetch generative development was the best in the mixes with oat and mustard plants when the sowing rates of the support crops were low (i.e., not more than 1.00-2.00 and 1.50-2.25 million seeds per hectare, respectively). In these cenoses the bean number averaged 8.8-9.1 per plant, or 714-758 per square meter. As sowing rates of a support crop increased, the bean number reduced by 7-12 %. The highest vetch seed biological yield (283.6 g per square meter) was discovered in the mixes with the white mustard at sowing rate of 1.50 million seeds per hectare, and rather high yield of 260.5-267.5 g per square meter was recorded with phacelia and oat plants when their sowing rates were the lowest. Completeness of harvesting and seed quality in vetch are known to depend significantly on lodging. Before harvesting, in vetch pure stands the lodging was 74 %, and in mixes with oat, mustard and phacelia plants it was 22-42 % (depending on the cereal sowing rates), 37-45 %, and 54-56 %, respectively. Actual vetch seed yield was the highest (1.51-1.57 ton per hectare) when the white mustard or oat plants were used in mixes at sowing rates of 1.50 and 3.00 million seed per hectare, respectively. Under excess rainfall during vegetation vetch/oat ensured a complete harvesting vetch seeds due to less lodging, and at low rainfalls the vetch/mustard mixes were more convenient. According to vetch seed germination of 93-96 % and vigor of 77-83 %, the vetch/oat and vetch/mustard mixes ensured the highest seed quality. In lodged pure vetch these parameters were reliably lower (85 % and 65 %, respectively).
Among the age-related modifications of proteins, carbamylation has been proposed as a post-translational protein modification that may participate in the cellular damage associated with oxidative stress [6] . Protein carbamylation is produced by the binding of isocyanic acid to free amino groups of proteins and, preferentially, to the fragments ε-NH2 of lysine residues, which generates homocitrulline. Isocyanic acid comes mainly from the dissociation of urea into cyanate and ammonium, which explains the elevated levels of carbamylated proteins in renal pathology [7, 8] . It is also found in the atmosphere because of pyrolysis/combustion of biomass [9] . Plasma concentration of myeloperoxidase (MPO) increases in the elderly and/or patients with several aging-related inflammatory diseases such as cardiovascular diseases, type II diabetes or chronic kidney disease. The action of the enzyme myeloperoxidase on thiocyanate generates isocyanic acid [10] [11] [12] [13] [14] [15] . Protein carbamylation has risen as a particular point of interest in recent years since there is some clinical and experimental evidence of the association between serum [16] carbamylated protein levels and the development of atherosclerosis and cardiovascular diseases [16] . In addition, the carbamylation of proteins may be a key mechanism for triggering autoimmune and inflammatory responses, and it provides a novel mechanism for the pathogenesis of autoimmune or allergic diseases [17, 18] .
During recent years, great attention had been focused on cyanide toxicity because of its widespread use in the industries and considered to be a ubiquitous pollutant in the environment. Human exposure to this substance may occur through mining, industrial usage, smoke from fire, propulsion motors and tobacco [1] [2] [3] [4] . Exposure to other chemicals like organonitriles, cyanogens and cyanide containing pesticides would also result in cyanide toxicity [5] [6] [7] . In addition to this, ingestion of cyanogenic glycoside-containing plant products is a major source of cyanide toxicity in human [8, 9] . Furthermore, studies have reported that the occupational cyanide exposure occurs through intake of water, ingestion of cassavabased food, inhalation of cyanide contaminated air and dermal absorption of hydrocyanic acid discharged into the environment during the courses of industrial process [10] .
The most im portant cause of cyanide poisoning among domestic animals is ingestion of such plants as arrow grass ( Triglochin sp.), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), wild black cherry (Prunus serotina), choke cherry (P. virginiana), and flax (Linum usitatissimum) [1] . These plants contain cyanogenic glyco sides that, when hydrolysed by enzymes during mastication and digestion, yield hydrocyanic acid (HCN). This phenom enon of cyanogenesis is espe cially com m on among members o f the Rosaceae, where several species possess one or more of three cyanogenic glycosides derived from L-phenylalanine, namely prunasin, sam bunigrin, and the disaccharide amygdalin. W hereas the catabolism of prunasin (the /?-glucoside o f (/?)-mandelonitrile) and am yg dalin (the /?-gentiobioside of (/?)-mandelonitrile) has been extensively studied [2 -4 ] , our knowledge concerning the biosynthesis o f these cyanogens is currently restricted to in vivo isotopic evidence. Nevertheless, the successful incorporation of L-phen ylalanine, phenylacetaldoxime, phenylacetonitrile, and m andelonitrile into prunasin by cherry laurel (P. laurocerasus) and peach (P. persica) shoots [5 -7] , As part of our goal to verify this pathway at the enzymic level, we report here the presence in cellfree extracts from im m ature fruits and young leaves of black cherry (P. serotina) of a soluble glucosyl transferase which glucosylates mandelonitrile to prunasin.
Bamboo shoots are low in fat and calories but rich in various nutrients viz vitamins, proteins, minerals and edible fiber. These are a good source of potassium (Engineering Resources Group Report 2003) and also contain flavones, total phenols and phenolic acids which possess antioxidant (Rice-Evans et al. 1997; Oboh and Ademosun 2010) , anticancer, antibacterial, anti-inflammatory (Galeotti et al. 2008; Mattile and Hellstorm 2007) and antifungal activities. Besides nutrients bamboo shoots contain lethal concentration of anti-nutrient (cyanogen) that needs to be removed before human consumption (EFSA 2004) . These cyanogenic glycosides on endogenic hydrolysis yield hydrocyanic acid which is harmful for human consumption (Seigler 1991) .
Conventional de-NO, technologies generally employ thermal-catalytic processes, scrubbing, and/or the addition of chemical additives (e.g., hydrocarbons, ammonia, urea compounds, isocyanic acid). The attractiveness of NTP-based technologies is the ability to initiate NO,-removal chemistry similar to that of conventional process by employing electricity-based, selective chemistry (that might greatly reduce or even eliminate the need for large-scale chemical scrubbers).
Polyurethanes are widely used in car paint formulations. During thermal degradation, such polymeric systems can generate powerful asthmatic sensitizing agents named isocyanates. In body repair shops, the thermal degradation of car paint can occur during abrasive processes that generate enough heat to involve release of isocyanates in air. An environmental monitoring study was performed in two body repair training schools and in a body repair shop to evaluate the workers' exposure to isocyanates during cutting, grinding and orbital sanding operations. For sampling, cassettes containing two 1-(2-methoxyphenyl)piperazine (MOPIP)-coated glass fiber filters (MFs) ($5 mg of MOPIP per filter) and bubblers containing 15 ml of MOPIP solution in toluene (1.0 mg ml À1 ) backed at the outlet with cassettes containing two MFs were used. Tandem mass spectrometry was used to analyze the MOPIP derivatives of isocyanic acid (HNCO), all the linear aliphatic isocyanates ranging from methyl isocyanate (Me-i) to hexyl isocyanate, all the alkenyl isocyanates ranging from propylene isocyanate to hexylene isocyanate, 1,6-hexamethylene diisocyanate (HDI), trans-and cis-isophorone diisocyanate (IPDI), 2,4-and 2,6-toluene diisocyanate (TDI), 2,4 0 -; 2,2 0 -and 4,4 0 -methylenediphenyl diisocyanate (MDI), phenyl isocyanate (Ph-i) and p-toluene isocyanate (p-Tol-i). The instrumental detection limits (LOD) were in the 0.13-0.75 mg of NCO per m 3 range for 15 l air samples converted into 3 ml liquid samples. The isocyanate concentrations detected in the workers' breathing zone were in the 1.07-9.80 mg of NCO per m 3 range for cutting, 0.63-3.62 mg of NCO per m 3 range for grinding and 0-1.29 mg of NCO per m 3 range for sanding. However, a rapid decrease of the isocyanate concentration was observed while moving away from the emission source. Among the isocyanates detected the most abundant were the monomers (MDI, HDI, TDI and IPDI) and Me-i.
ABSTRACTThe effects of ferric oxide (Fe2O3) on the pyrolysis characteristics of soybean protein and the release of precursors to nitrogen oxides (NOx) were studied using thermogravimetry and mass spectrometry. The results show that, as the content of Fe2O3 increases, there is no major difference between initial and peak temperatures of protein pyrolysis samples. Moreover, between the temperature range of 204 and 550°C where weight loss mainly occurs, total weight-loss rate decreases before increasing, with obvious weight loss occurring around the temperature of 650°C. Fe2O3 displays both inhibiting and promoting effects on the precipitation of nitrogen-containing gases such as ammonia (NH3), hydrogen cyanide (HCN), isocyanic acid (HNCO), and acetonitrile (CH3CN), with the inhibition effect prevailing over promotion effect on the whole.
Abstract Some antinutrients (hydrocyanic acid, oxalate, and phytate) and some mineral elements (calcium, copper, iron, magnesium, zinc, and phosphorus) were analyzed in five popular Nigerian soup meals, afang ( Gnetum africana ), atama ( Heinsia crinata ), editan ( Lasianthera africana ), edikang ikong ( Telfaria occidentalis ), and okro ( Hibiscus esculentus ). The concentrations of antinutrients in these soup meals were 0.17–0.42, 1.50–10.40, and 484–745 mg/100 g dry wt for hydrocyanate, oxalate, and phytate, respectively. The mineral contents (mg/100 g dry wt) were Ca (1430–3930), Cu (1.6–3), Fe (130–470), Mg (490–910), Zn (12.7–40), and P (490–580). The computed [calcium]/[phytate] [phytate]/[zinc], [calcium] [phytate]/[zinc] and [phytate]/[P] millimolar ratios/kg, Dwt ranged from 45 to 98, 2 to 5, 117 to 650, and 4 to 6, respectively. The results showed that the concentrations of antinutrients were below toxic levels and these levels may not affect bioavailability of the minerals.
Abstract The 1,3-dipolar cycloaddition of nitrone (1a) and pyridine N -oxide (1b) with isocyanates (2) was evaluated in terms of ab initio and semiempirical PM3 calculations. In the ab initio transition structure of 1a with isocyanic acid (2a) by MP2/6-31G ∗ level, the length of the newly forming bonds of O-C and C-N are 1.740 and 2.197 A, respectively, indicative of the former bond formation being significantly advanced than that of the latter. The PM3 transition structure (TSba) of the cycloaddition between 1b with 2a showed similar result. The O-C bond (1.445 A) is ca . 76% formed at the transition state, significantly advanced than the C-N bond (2.165 A, ca . 20%). Moreover, the atoms forming the C-N bond have opposite charge, indicating a zwitterionic character of TSba.
Copolymer (methacrylonitrile–methacrylic acid), which has no significant deep UV absorption prior to prebake, starts to have a broad UV absorption with the maximum at 246 nm after prebake at 130 °C in air. Cyclized structures responsible for this absorption undergo photochemical reactions: (1) main chain scissions at deep‐UV exposure, initiated by removal of isocyanic acid, providing positive tone images; (2) hydrogen transfer reactions at mid‐UV exposures to result in conjugated structures or cross linkages, providing negative tone images. With relatively high sensitivity, 50 mJ/cm2 for positive and 100 mJ/cm2 for negative tone images, polymer patterns with vertical wall profiles are obtained. Postbake of these resist patterns increases dry etch resistance significantly.
The invention relates to a crude oil demulsifier, and discloses a natural polysaccharide macromolecule-modified crude oil demulsifier. The demulsifier is prepared by adopting the following operation steps: (1) conducting halogenation modification, carboxylation modification, amination modification, formylation modification, or isocyanic acid esterification modification on polyethylene glycol monomethyl ether; (2) preparing glycidyl dimethyl alkyl ammonium chloride; (3) preparing quaternized polysaccharide; and (4) reacting the modified polyethylene glycol monomethyl ether with quaternized polysaccharide to obtain a product, namely the natural polysaccharide macromolecule-modified crude oil demulsifier. According to the crude oil demulsifier, as the raw material, the natural polysaccharide macromolecule compound has multiple advantages of being wide in source, natural, non-toxic, sustainable, good in usage safety and the like; and the prepared demulsifier has good demulsifying and dewatering effects; in addition, the molecules of the demulsifier contain a great deal of groups of hydroxyl and the like, which have certain chelating capability to metal ions, thus being capable of removing a certain amount of metal ions while demulsifying.
A process for dewatering hydrocyanic acid by distillation, characterized in that a crude hydrocyanic acid comprising from 50 to 99.9 wt .-% HCN, 0.1 to 40 wt .-% of water, 0 to 15 wt .-% carbon oxides, and optionally 0.01 to 1 wt .-% of a non-volatile stabilizer, at a pressure of 1 bar to 2.5 bar, a bottom temperature of 100 ° C to 130 ° C and a head temperature of 25 ° C to 54 ° C in the absence of is distilled volatile stabilizer in a distillation column, wherein a top draw stream purified, anhydrous hydrocyanic acid and carbon oxides and a bottom draw stream comprising water and optionally the low-volatile stabilizer can be obtained.
Carbamylation corresponds to the non-enzymatic binding of isocyanic acid to protein amino groups and participates in protein molecular aging, characterized by the alteration of their structural and functional properties. Carbamylated proteins exert deleterious effects in vivo and are involved in the progression of various diseases, including atherosclerosis and chronic kidney disease. Therefore, there is a growing interest to evaluate the carbamylation rate of blood or tissue proteins, since carbamylation-derived products (CDPs) constitute valuable biomarkers in these contexts. Homocitrulline, formed by isocyanic acid covalently attaches to the ε-NH2 group of lysine residue side chain, is the most characteristic CDP. Sensitive and specific quantification of homocitrulline requires mass spectrometry-based methods. This unit describes a liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) method for the quantification of homocitrulline, with special emphasis on pre-analytical steps that allow quantification of total or protein-bound homocitrulline in serum or tissue samples. © 2018 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
Summary. ::: ::: By means of copper analyses of blood and organs from rabbits that have been given intravenous injections of copper (II) salts in varying doses, and from rabbits that before this treatment have been poisoned to death with hydrocyanic acid, it has been shown 1. that the minimum lethal dose in the case of copper is over 2 mg per kg of body weight, 2. that copper is enriched in the liver and the blood corpuscles after copper-treatment of hydrocyanic acid poisoning and 3. that the copper cyan-complex has a lower toxicity than copper. ::: ::: ::: ::: On the strength of these results it may be said that the use of copper (II) salts in a dose of 1 mg copper per kg body weight can safely be prescribed as an antidote against hydrocyanic acid according to AGNER'S technique (intravenous injection). The toxicity of the copper is presumed to be due to an inhibition of enzymesystems of vital importance to the organism. In the light of our experiments it is probable that the quantitatively most important mechanism of the hydrocyanic acid effect consists in an inhibition of catalase in blood corpuscles and liver.
Cyanogenesis, the production of hydrocyanic acid, is a trait in white clover (Trifolium repens L.) controlled by alleles at two unlinked loci, Ac and Li. The objectives of this study were (i) to determine the proportion of cyanogenic plants in the accessions of the U.S. white clover germplasm collection, (ii) to determine how representative the core subset was of the entire collection for cyanogenesis, and (iii) to determine the relationship of cyanogenesis, in accessions collected in situ, to collection site and climate. Twenty plants from each of 548 white clover accessions were grown in the greenhouse from 1991 to 1993. Two to three leaves per plant were harvested and the presence or absence of hydrocyanic acid was determined by the picric acid test. The U.S. germplasm collection was predominantly acyanogenic with a third of the plants evaluated being cyanogenic. Accessions with the most cyanogenic plants were collected in Morocco, Spain, Portugal, France, and Turkey while the least cyanogenic plants were collected in China, Romania, Russia, Kazakhstan, Croatia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, and Slovenia. Accessions collected in Morocco, Portugal, and Spain had the greatest intensity of cyanogenic reaction. Geographic stratification with random sampling was an effective method of developing a core subset, as the white clover core subset was representative of the entire collection for total cyanogenesis and distribution of cyanogenic plants. Cyanogenic frequency was greater in accessions collected at low altitudes and at sites with high winter temperatures, lower summer precipitation, greater spring cloudiness (% sunshine), and less snow cover. Latitude of collection was not associated with cyanogenic frequency in white clover.
Many species in the Rosaceae family are cultivated and eaten asculinary fruits throughout the world. Although the outer fleshy part offruits such as apricots , peaches, and numerous types of plums is indeeddelicious, the stone contains toxic cyanogenic heterosides. The bestknown of these poisons is amygdalin. Hydrolysis of these molecules inthe digestive tract of mammals can release hydrocyanic acid that canlead to cyanide poisoning.
The study evaluates the 'Rapid Reduction of Nitrogen Oxides' process for NOx reduction in gas turbines, reciprocating engines, and boilers. The process applies a cyanuric acid/isocyanic acid system for NOx reduction and has been tested by a variety of laboratories. RAPRENOx is at an early stage of development, and much remains to be known about the process. The NOx reduction capabilities and principal issues are still being discerned. The available experimental data are discussed and indicate 4 central issues: a reaction temperature window, byproduct emissions, cost of cyanuric acid, and NOx reduction efficiencies. The study also evaluates the cost-effectiveness of RAPRENOx, as compared with other technologies.
Abstract In this study, the extrusion detoxification technique on flaxseed was investigated by uniform design optimization. The effect of the temperature (°C), the feeding rate (kg h −1 ), the screw speed (rpm) and the moisture content (%) on the response value (the removal rate, %) of hydrocyanic acid (HCN) in flaxseed has been investigated. U 12 (12 3 × 4) mixed-level uniform design was selected and the equation of extrusion detoxification model was obtained after 12 experimentations. The content of cyanide in flaxseed was determined by Association of Official Analytical Chemists (AOAC) method. The extrusion detoxification technique was optimized with stepwise non-linear regression analysis and response surface method (RSM). DPS Professional V.3.01 and MATLAB (Version 6.5.1) were used for data analysis. The optimized results, including the temperature, the feeding rate, the screw speed, the moisture content of flaxseed, the optimized value and the relative error of the model, were 146.0 °C, 32.7 kg h −1 , 152.5 rpm, 12.5, 93.23 and 1.76%, respectively. In order to improve the productivity, the feeding rate can be increased to 60 kg h −1 on condition that it can reach the demanding value of detoxification. At this feeding rate, the model value of the removal rate of HCN in flaxseed is 84.38%; the experimental value is 83.32%; the relative error of the model is 1.27%.
TAPIOCA or cassava plant (Manihot utilissima, ::: Pohl.) occupies a place of considerable importance ::: among the food crops of South India. ::: The various varieties of tapioca are generally ::: distinguished as 'bitter' and `sweet' depending ::: on the presence or absence of a cyanogenetic ::: glucoside in the tubers. Together with the ::: glucoside, an enzyme is also present which can ::: decompose it and liberate hydrocyanic acid. ::: The enzyme is destroyed on boiling the tubers ::: and the HCN is dissolved in water.
The utilization of a "multimistura" as food supplement, in nutritional improvement programs for the low-income population in Brazil, represents a low-cost and easy-to-use food preparation alternative, presentig reasonable nutritive value and satisfying local taste preferences. This is based on the fact that the "multimistura" is made up of non-conventional ingredients/foods and of agroindustrial by-products, rich in different nutrients. This paper was designed to determine some toxic and/or antinutritional factors of a "Multimistura" utilized as food supplement in institutional programs to prevent malnutrition by the Department of Welfare and Social Affairs of the City of Natal, RN. The product studied had the following formulation: 30% of wheat bran; 30% of wheat flour; 30% of corn meal; 3% of powder from cassava leaves; 4% of pumpkin seeds powder; and 3% of eggshell powder. The analysis of the main toxic and/or antinutritional factors showed very low concentrations of phytates and tannins and no detectable levels of aflatoxin and cyanic acid.
Evaluation of the biological and economic potentials of cassava foliage (CSF) processing and utilization as feed for water buffalo was conducted at the Philippine Carabao Center, Ubay, Bohol. Analysis showed that fresh CSF contains hydrocyanic acid (HCN) ranging from 86-186 ppm (fresh basis). Wilting or drying reduced HCN content below biologically acceptable level of 80 ppm (dry basis) for low and medium HCN varieties but not for high HCN variety which was reduced only by ensiling. Silage pH (3.5-4.5) and physical appearances Indicated that cassava foliage is a good silage material. Buffaloes fed with different levels of ensiled cassava foliage showed that average daily gain (ADG) increased (P<0.01) from 0.74 kg in control (0% CSF) to 0.86 kg with 50% CSF in roughage. Feeding CSF at 75% of roughage did not improve animal performance. Dry matter intake was highest at 25% CSF feeding with 2.36% of body weight. This reduced to 2.28% at 50% CSF and 2.14% at 75% CSF. Feed intake reduction at high CSF silage feeding could be attributed to increased HCN ingestion. Sulfur supplementation for HCN detoxification increased (P<0.05) dry matter intake for animals fed 75% CSF. An ADG of 1 kg was attained which could be attributed to increased sulfur content of the diet due to increased concentrate supplementation. Comparative income analysis of different cassava-based production system showed that income increased from PhP15,360 in cassava without defoliation to P22,160 in cassava with defoliation and PhP36,775 for cassava with livestock integration. Therefore, income in cassava-based farming can be maximized by livestock integration.
Hydrocyanic acid is an important synthetic material in chemical industry. Currently, the industrial methods of producing HCN mainly include the Andrussow and BMA processes, which are necessarily operated at temperatures of more than 1000 °C. This paper proposes a method to synthesize HCN at low temperature (400 °C) through a C–N coupling reaction in CH4/NH3 nonthermal plasma with the assistance of Pt/TS-1 catalyst. Under the optimized reaction conditions (CH4/NH3 = 1:2, GHSV: 2425 s–1, discharge length: 3 cm, reaction temperature: 400 °C, Pt/TS-1 + plasma), 80.9% HCN selectivity was achieved with 25.9% CH4 conversion. During the reaction process, the nonthermal plasma played a role of activating CH4 and NH3 into radical species (CHx and NHy), while the Pt/TS-1 catalyst promoted the C–N coupling reaction of the radical species to produce HCN.
TITLE Effectiveness of breadfruit leaf extract water stew to colony growth of Streptococcus mutans ABSTRACT Breadfruit leaf flavonoid compounds useful as antimicrobial function kill or inhibit the growth of microorganisms. Breadfruit leaves also contain other compounds, namely saponins, polyphenols, tannins, hydrocyanic acid, acetylcholine, riboflavin, and phenols The aim of research was effectiveness results boiling breadfruit leaf extract on growth colony of bacteria Streptococcus mutans. This type of research used experimental method or experimental. In this research study is the growth of Streptococcus mutans bacteria colony before and after given the results boiling breadfruit leaf extract at a concentration of 10%, 20%, 40%, 60%. The design of the research is a pre-test-post-test with control group. In this research used two repetitions. The results of the research show that breadfruit leaf extract effectively inhibits the growth of bacterial colonies of Streptococcus mutans. Results boiling breadfruit leaf extract at a concentration of 60% of the most effective at inhibiting the growth of Streptococcus mutans bacteria colony than the concentration of 10%, 20%, 40%. Chemical compounds contained in the leaves of breadfruit namely polyphenols which have properties as an antimicrobial against bacteria and fungi. Not only that, the breadfruit leaf also contains flavonoids that have powerful antimicrobial properties. An antimicrobial agent serves to kill or inhibit the growth of microorganisms. Flavonoids are polyphenolic compounds that have chemical properties that are slightly acidic phenols that can be dissolved in alkaline. Flavonoids are also contains hydroxyl groups that are generally soluble in polar solvents such as ethanol, methanol, butanol, acetone, and water. Key words : Breadfruit Leaf Extract, Streptococcus mutans
Cyanide concentrations of blood samples from fire victims autopsied in the Institute of Legal Medicine, Munich, have been determined. In 25% of 48 analyzed cases cyanide concentrations from 0.52 microgram to 6.24 microgram Cyanide/ml blood have been detected. These results are compared to former studies and the higher mean level in our collective is emphasized. The importance of hydrocyanid acid in the toxicity of fire gases is evidently greater, than assumed. Hydrocyanic acid may be produced from nitrogen continaing polymers during combustion. The quote of these polymers in clothing, furniture, and also in equipment of cars is increasing. Therefore, it is necessary to take more notice of the formation of hydrocyanic acid during combustion, even though carbon monoxide is in general the main toxic agent in fire gases.
Studies of nitrile hydrolysis in concentrated acid media have been extended to the hydrolysis of hydrocyanic acid, acetonitrile, and cyanoacetic acid in hydrochloric acid solutions of concentration 1 to 8.5 N. It appears that the hydrolysis of aliphatic nitriles in concentrated sulphuric and hydrochloric acids provides systems of consecutive, irreversible unimolecular reactions over the complete range knitrilekamide (more dilute acid) to knitrilekamide (highly concentrated acid), for a sufficient range of acid concentrations. The limit, knitrilekamide, is not attained in hydrobromic acid solutions. The nitriles studied here exhibit a large decrease in activation energy with increase of acid concentration, similar to that observed earlier for propionitrile. The magnitude of the variation of the Arrhenius parameters is specific for each nitrile. For the acetonitrile hydrolysis, the increase in rate with increase of acid concentration largely follows the accompanying activation energy decrease. The relative ...
The present invention, (a) the glycerol from an aqueous solution of glycerol in the presence of an acidic catalyst process for dehydration to acrolein; purified aqueous flux from (b) step (a), the at least 15% by weight with respect to acrolein obtained in step (d) (c); obtaining a flux acrolein containing water; (c) step process to produce a reaction between acrolein flux and methyl mercaptan obtained in (b) in the presence of a catalyst comprising the step of optionally purifying the product at least relates to a method of manufacturing a methylmercapto-propionaldehyde (MMP). The method of the present invention, step (c) or (d) the product obtained in the reaction in step (e) with hydrocyanic acid or sodium cyanide, followed by for to produce methionine or methionine hydroxy analog it may also subsequent conversion including, methionine or methionine hydroxy analogue can then be optionally purified. As a raw material in the process of the present invention, use of additional methyl mercaptan and / or hydrocyanic acid derived from biomass, MMP composed of organic carbon of 100% from renewable resources, enables the acquisition of methionine or methionine hydroxy analog to.
With ever-tightening pollutant emission regulations [20] , a common procedure for removing one of the major components of diesel engine emissions, namely nitric oxides (NO x ), is urea-water-solution (UWS)-based selective catalytic reduction (SCR) [4, 20, 38] . In this method, the UWS spray droplets are exposed to the combustion exhaust stream and are subsequently vaporized producing ammonia (NH 3 ) and isocyanic acid (HNCO) through a thermolysis reaction [32] . It is the NH 3 which serves as a reducing agent to transform NO x into N 2 on the catalyst. Schaber et al. [32] also mentions other reactions which occur within the desired temperature regime as well, including creation of undesirable chemical compounds; biuret, cyanuric acid, ammelide, and ammeline complexes. One of the strongest benefits of this procedure is the safe storage of NH 3 within the UWS. Due to their potential, UWS and urea have been the subject of extensive research [5, 14, 15, 27, 32, 39] with regards to physical characteristics, chemical decomposition pathways, evaporation time, and gas phase properties.
Nutritionally, the cassava leaf is rich in protein (14-40%), potassium, iron, calcium, sodium, vitamin B1, B2, B6, C and carotenes (Eggum, 1970; Adewusi and Bradbury, 1993; Bokanga, 1994) . It has been reported that apart from lower methionine, lysine, and perhaps isoleucine content, the amino acid profile of cassava leaf proteins compares favorably with those of milk, cheese, soybean, fish, egg (Ravindran, 1990; Wanapat, 2001) . Nonetheless, exploitation of the food value of this crop is greatly masked by the endogenous presence of cyanogenic glucosides. These glucosides, typified by linamarin [2-(α-Dglucopyranosyloxy) isobutyronitrile] and lotaustralin [2-(α-D glucopyranosyloxy) methylbutyronitrile] are hydrolyzed to hydrocyanic acid (HCN) by endogenous linamarase (EC. 3.1.1.21, linamarin, α-D-glucoside glucohydrolase) when cassava tissues are disrupted by cutting, grating, bruising or other mechanical means (Conn, 1969; Bradbury et al., 1991) .
Ground or whole flaxseed can be added to almost any baked product to add a nutty flavour to bread, waffles pancakes and other products. Flaxseed flour is used commercially in breads in the United States, in muffin, cookie and other mixes (Carter 1993) . Studies on the use of flaxseed in the bakery products have been reported (Alpers and Sawyer-Morse 1996; Ramcharitar et al. 2005; Alpaslan and Hayta 2006) . The cause of concern is the presence of natural toxicant cyanogenic glycosides in flaxseed. Cunannane and Thompson (1995) reported that total cyanogenic glycoside content measured as hydrocyanic acid (HCN), decreased from 20.8 to 1.0 mg (HCN/ 100 g seeds) when flaxseed was roasted at 120°C three times. They also stated that bread and bakery mixes containing about 10% flaxseed, had relatively low levels of linustatin and traces of linamarin. Flaxseed is not consumed as part of the regular diet in India. Hence, the study was carried out with the objective of using flaxseed as a functional ingredient in cookies, its effect on the rheological properties of wheat flour and also to study the fatty acid profile of flaxseed cookies during storage.
The Comarca Lagunera region has been considered through the time as one of the most important dairy basins from Mexico (Pedroza-Sandoval et al., 2014) , this production is mainly based upon the intensive growth of high quality forage as alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.), maize (Zea mays L.) and forage sorghum (Sorghum spp.), during spring and summer, and oats (Avena spp.), wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) and triticale (Triticosecale spp.) during winter (Zamora-Villa et al., 2016) from which the raw materials used to elaborate the cattle´s feed are obtained. In order to satisfy the growing demand of forage and being able to feed the dairy cattle of this region, it has been necessary to establish large acreages for these forages, especially for maize and sorghum. In this matter, statistics indicate that approximately 27,486 ha of forage maize were sown in the Comarca Lagunera, from which 12,923 ha corresponded to the Laguna from Coahuila and 14,563 ha to the Laguna of Durango (SIAP-SAGARPA, 2014) . The farming of maize for forage production constitutes a fast way of obtaining high dry matter production rates and an ideal quality for cattle feeding when it is administered either as fresh forage or as silage (Boschini and Amador, 2001; Iqbal et al., 2015) . Furthermore, this forage, while fresh, has a 7.2 to 8.5% of protein, from 32.5 to 33.5% of crude fiber, from 1 to 2.5% of fat, besides containing high quantities of carbohydrates, it has the potential of providing an energy rich material for cattle feeding and of being used at all levels of production without damages derived from oxalic acid or hydrocyanic acid (prussic), as is the case with sorghum (Dahmardeh, 2011) . Plant nutrition is one of the fundamental factors affecting crop production and it plays an essential role in guaranteeing the right performance of forages. In fact, plant nutrition management is one of the main strategies for increasing crop yield and forage maize is not the exception. In the nutrition process, nitrogen and phosphorus have great relevance because they are the nutritious elements with the highest transcendence in yield as well as in the quality attributes of green forage (Iqbal et al., 2015) . On the nutritional aspect, Fortis-Hernández et al. (2009) highlighted that high quality forage production, without the use of synthetic fertilizers, is a necessity in regions where there is a marked limitation of natural resources. Also, it is highly recognized that, because of the increment of anthropogenic activities, all ecosystems have been impacted by the release of polluting agents such as heavy metals, pathogens, pesticides and synthetic fertilizers, modification of natural conditions, situation that gets reflected upon human health (García-Gutiérrez and Rodríguez-Meza, 2012) . Due to these constraints, together with the constant increment of inorganic fertilizer prices, on the last few years, rethinking the situation and the search for alternatives to diminish the use of synthesis soluble fertilizers has been motivated (Contreras et al., 2014) . A recent alternative to the use of synthetic fertilizers has been the application of diverse organic fertilizers that contain a part of N in organic forms, more or less stable, which gets mineralized on a gradual way and become available for the growing plant, for which reason, synthetic fertilizers could be replaced by these materials (Ramos-Agüero and TerryAlfonso, 2014). One of the alternatives that has the interest of both researchers and agronomic producers is the extract from sea algae, being one of the reasons that these grow fast, produce a great biomass volume and are a source of many substances with biologic activity (Bettiol, 2006) and in this way, Zermeño-González et al. (2015) highlighted that the use of sea algae extracts as biofertilizers to the soil and foliage increases the performance and quality of different crops, this is related to the photosynthesis rate of the plants. Also, it has been put into view that these extracts contains nutritious macro and micro elements, organic compounds such as auxin and gibberellins that favor plant growth besides increasing crop yield and plant vigour against adverse environmental effects (Arun et al., 2014; Aymen et al., 2014) , for these reasons, these biofertilizers, applied to the soil or foliage, could be used with the purpose of replacing, totally or partially, conventional fertilizers (Hernández-Herrera et al., 2014) . Because of the above mentioned, the effect of liquid organic sea originated fertilizers, Acadian Soil and Acadian Foliage (Stimplex®), upon nutritional value of forage maize during springsummer 2015 cycle was evaluated.
2-Diazo-2′-thiocyanatoacetophenone (Va) dissolves in cold dilute alkali and acidification of the solution provides 2-(cyanohydrazono)benzo[b]thiophen-3(2H)-one (IXa). The potassium salt of the latter, obtained by the interaction of the diazo-ketone and potassium cyanide, on acidic hydrolysis gives 2-semicarbazonobenzo[b]-thiophen-3(2H)-one(IXc), identical with that obtained by condensing 2,2-dibromobenzo[b]thiophen-3(2H)-one (VIIc) with semicarbazide. With triphenylphosphine the diazo-ketone gives the expected adduct, which on brief boiling with methanol suffers elimination of hydrocyanic acid to provide 2-(triphenylphosphoranylidene-hydrazono)benzo[b]thiophen-3(2H)-one (VIIIb). The potassium salt of 2-(cyanohydrazono)indane-1,3-dione (IIb) is obtained by an analogous reaction of potassium cyanide with 2-diazo-2′-(methoxycarbonyl)-acetophenone, the triphenylphosphine adduct of which, however, did not cyclise. It is suggested that these cyclisations proceed by nucleophilic attack at the terminal nitrogen atom of the diazo-function rather than by deprotonation of the diazo-carbon atom.
Chuanliansu (Ⅰ), C_(30)H_(38)O_(11), isolated from the bark of Melia toosendan et Z., is an active anthelmintic against ascaris.The NMR spectrum of chuanliansu (Ⅰ) showed three quarternary C-methyl groups and two acetoxyl groups.Acetylation of I with acetic anhydride and pyridine under forcing conditions yielded acetylchuanliansu (Ⅱ), C_(36)H_(44)O_(14), with a molecular weight of 700 as shown by mass spectrometry.Chuanliansu is a triterpenoid derivative containing a β-substituted furan ring.This is supported by the presence of oharaeteristic infrared bands at 3.25, 6.63 and 11.4μ and of NMR peaks at δ 6.15, 7.35 and 7.55.Hydrogenation of chuanliansu afforded tetrahydrochuanliansu (Ⅳ), C_(30)H_(42)O_(11),resulting in the saturation of the furan ring.Ozonolysis of acetylchuanliansu (Ⅱ) caused the cleavage of the furan ring to give the acid (Ⅶ), C_(33)H_(42)O_(15), with a pK_a value, expected for saturated carboxylic acids bearing no oxygen on the α-carbon.Reaction of Chuanliansu and acetylchuanliansu with thiocyanic acid gave Ⅷ-1 and Ⅷ-2, respectively, each with one molecule of water less than that calculated for a simple addition product (as shown by elemental analyses). This reveals the presence of a 1, 2-epoxide, and the stereochemistry of ring D may be expressed as A.The ORD curves of acetylchuanliansu (Ⅱ) and the acid (Ⅶ) obtained on ozonolysis both showed simple negative Cotton effect. The amplitude of the latter compound (Ⅶ) is markedly lower than that of the former (Ⅱ). According to the octant rule, we may place the koto grouping in ring C. The furan ring in the thiocyanic adducts (Ⅷ-1 and Ⅷ-2) was conjugated with the 13 (17) double bond as substantiated by their ultraviolet maxima at 234 nm. If the carbonyl group were at position 12, the extended conjugated system would be expected to show an absorption maximum at 314 nm. Thus we consider, by elimination, that the carbonyl group is situated at position 11. In furanoid triterpenes there are usually five C-methyl groups, but chuanliansu and its derivatives such as ⅩⅥ all revealed only three C-methyl groups in their NMR spectra. Therefore two hydroxymethyl groups should be present. Chuanliansu(Ⅰ) itself under mild alkaline conditions releases formaldehyde. This indicates that one hydroxymethyl group (—CH_2OH) is located at position 9, the α-position of the 11-keto group. This hydroxymethyl group should be of β-configuration on biogeneticgrounds (migrating from C-10), reminiscent of cucurbitacin.Treatment of deacetylchuanliansu (Ⅲ) with bismuth trioxide gave a black precipitate, the response being quicker than that of benzoin. But no reaction was observed with chuanliansu itself. Furthermore, oxidation of deacetylchuanliansu with chromic trioxide in pyridine gave an α-diketone (Ⅻ) as opposed to chuanliansu itself. Therefore an acetoxy group should be placed on C-12 of chuanliansu(Ⅰ).Most of the oxidation products of Ⅰ and Ⅱ were α, β-unsaturated ketones. Tetrahydrochuanliansu (Ⅳ) had an ultraviolet end absorption, expected of a trisubstituted double bond. These facts led us to suggest that one double bond and one hydroxyl group were in allylic relationship and located in ring B.Chromic trioxide oxidized deacetylchuanliansu to an α, β-unsaturated ketone which we now formulate as Ⅻ. This ketone rapidly absorbed approximately one mole of oxygen in dilute alkali at room temperature, presumably to furnish the fully conjugated dienedione(G). Since the α, β-unsaturated ketones obtained from Ⅰ did not absorb oxygen under the same conditions, an acetoxy group may be present at position 2 in ring A.When Ⅰ was fused with alkali, acetone was obtained. Therefore an ether linkage may be placed between C-3 and C-4. These results finally led to the proposal of formula Ⅰ as the structure of chuanliansu.
Carbamylation requires isocyanic acid derived from urea. Carbamylation of hemoglobin (Hb) produces carbamylated Hb (carbHb), which could serve as a marker of posttranslational protein modification possibly associated with such uremic complications as atherosclerosis. Since relative carbHb levels are determined by mean urea concentration and duration of exposure, they could be used to assess the adequacy of a patient's hemodialysis (HD) regimen. We therefore determined the relationship between carbHb and urea kinetics in patients with chronic renal failure (CRF) undergoing maintenance HD. In pre-HD determinations as well as in nondialyzed subjects including healthy subjects and CRF patients without dialysis, carbHb correlated well with blood urea nitrogen (BUN) concentrations, especially with BUN averaged for the preceding 1-3 months. In HD patients, carbHb correlated significantly with urea kinetics (time-averaged concentration of urea, or TAC(urea), K(t)/V and urea reduction rate). The estimated mean urea concentration in HD patients calculated from the relationship between carbHb and averaged BUN over 3 months in the nondialyzed groups was lower than TAC(urea), suggesting that TAC(urea) may be an overestimate. Pre-HD BUN is not a good nutritional index since detrimental decreases in urea elimination from the body can elevate pre-HD BUN independently of nutrition. We therefore devised a new nutritional index, BUN/carbHb, which correlated significantly with serum albumin as well as the normalized protein catabolic rate. These results demonstrate that carbHb accurately reflects uremic control and the BUN/carbHb ratio could serve as an index of nutritional state in HD patients.
The mechanism of surface modification of titania by calcination with urea at 400 °C was investigated by substituting urea by its thermal decomposition products. It was found that during the urea-induced process titania acts as a thermal catalyst for the conversion of intermediate isocyanic acid to cyanamide. Trimerization of the latter produces melamine followed by polycondensation to melem- and melon-based poly(aminotri-s-triazine) derivatives. Subsequently, amino groups of the latter finish the process by formation of TiN bonds through condensation with the OH-terminated titania surface. When the density of these groups is too low, like in substoichiometric titania, no corresponding modification occurs. The mechanistic role of the polytriazine component depends on its concentration. If present in only a small amount, it acts as a molecular photosensitizer. At higher amounts it forms a crystalline semiconducting organic layer, chemically bound to titania. In this case the system represents a unique example of a covalently coupled inorganic–organic semiconductor photocatalyst. Both types of material exhibit the quasi-Fermi level of electrons slightly anodically shifted relative to that of titania. They are all active in the visible-light mineralization of formic acid, whereas nitrogen-modified titania prepared from ammonia is inactive.
The KSS and N32 sorghum [Sorghum bieolor (L.) Moench) lines are low and high, respectively, in the hydrocyanic acid potential (HCN-p) of mature leaves. This difference is conditioned primarily by a single pair of alleles. The main objective of this study was to determine, at various stages of plant growth and various times during the growing season, the HCN-p of upper leaves and tillers of fieldgrown plants of these two parental lines and of two low-HCN-p F3 lines derived from crosses between KS8 and N32. The four entries were grown in a randomized complete block design with three replications in 1985. Samples of leaf tissue were dried, ground, and extracted, and cyanide in the extracts was assayed colorimetrically. Using a mean HCN-p level of SOO mg kgI dry wt to separate safe from unsafe sorghum forage, all samples of KS8 mature leaves and tillers would be considered safe, and all N32 samples would be considered potentially dangerous. Values for most of the samples of the FJ lines fell within the safe range, but some samples of young regrowth exceeded the 500 mg kg-I limit. Regressions of HCN-p on height for upper leaves of main stems and of tillers indicated a significant negative relationship for all entries except for leaves from the main stems of KS8. However, the relationship was not close enough to support the use of plant or tiller height as a reliable indicator of HCN-p. Levels of HCN-p also were determined for mature leaves and young regrowth of hybrids involving KS8, N32, and 'Redlan' sorghums as seed parents and NP25, 'Piper,' and 'Greenlear sudangrasses [So sudanense (Piper) Stapf) as pollinators. Results indicated that for minimizing the risk of cyanide poisoning, KS8 would be the seed parent of choice, and NP2S and Piper would be the preferred pollinators. Additional index words: Cyanogenesis, Prussic acid, Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench, Sorghum sudanense (Piper) Stapf, Sorghum X sudangrass hybrids. A RECENT COMPARISON of the hydrocyanic acid potential (HCN-p) of the grain sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] lines, KS8 and N32, indicated that seedling leaves of both lines were high in HCNp, but mature leaves from field-grown plants differed greatly, flag leaves of N32 being at least 10 times as high in HCN-p as KS8 flag leaves (3). The large difference in HCN-p between KS8 and N32 was detected in field-grown plants within about 5 weeks after planting (5), and was found to be conditioned primarily by a single pair of alleles (3). The objective of the present study was to determine, at various times during the growing season and at various stages of plant development, the HCN-p of upper leaves and tillers of KS8, N32, and two low-HCN-p F3lines derived from crosses 'between KS8 and N32. Determinations of this type are needed for appropriate management decisions concerning the safety of sorghum forage for grazing liveI Contribution from the USDA-ARS and the Nebraska Agric. Res. :Div., Lincoln, NE 68583. Published as Paper no. 8101, Journal Series, Nebraska A$ric. Res. Div. Research was conducted under Project 12-114. Received 31 July 1986. 2 George Holmes professor of agronomy; supervisory research ge~eticist, USDA-ARS; and research geneticist, USDA-ARS. respectively. Published in Crop Sci. 27:903-906 (1987). 903 stock. It would be unusual for farmers to use grain sorghums such as KS8 and N32 as pasture except during the period after grain harvest. However, sudangrass [So sudanense (Piper) Stapf] and sorghum X sudangrass hybrids are often used for pasture and greenchop, and the HCN-p of these forages at various growth stages is important to the livestock producer. Therefore, several other sorghum and sudangrass lines and their FI hybrids also were included in this study. MATERIALS AND METHODS
Abstract The hydrolysis of isocyanic acid in the gaseous phase has been investigated at temperatures between 553 and 613 K by mass spectrometry and evaluated to obtain the corresponding kinetic data. The reaction order and reaction constant have been determined. Finally, the influence of water on the catalysed formation of melamine from isocyanic acid under the operating conditions employed has been investigated in order to determine whether there is a need to try the process gas.
Reflection adsorption infrared spectroscopy has been used to show that the same surface species forms on Cu(100) from the thermal decomposition of isocyanic acid (HNCO) and from the reaction of cyanogen (C2N2) with preadsorbed oxygen. This species is identified as isocyanate, NCO, linearly bonded to the surface through the nitrogen atom. It is characterized by an intense band due to the asymmetric NCO stretch at 2201 cm−1, a very weak band at 1321 cm−1 due to the symmetric NCO stretch, and a very weak band at 3448 cm−1 due to the symmetric stretch plus asymmetric stretch combination band. Isotopic substitution with13C,15N, and 18O supports the assignment. Isocyanate is stable on Cu(100) up to 500 K.
Crosses between Manihot melanobasis and cassava were very fertile and the fertility was maintained in the hybrids. The first and subsequent generations of these crosses were very high yielding. Undesirable features of the early hybrids included a straggling habit and thin stems which yielded poor planting material, a high hydrocyanic acid content in the roots, and low virus resistance: all these were rectified by further breeding. Although M. melanobasis has a high protein content in its roots it is uncertain whether this character can be transmitted to its progeny.
Summary ::: Background Upward trends in allergy and asthma rates have been reported in most western societies, including the UK, where around 15–20% of the population now suffer from allergy or asthma. Scientific proof of the causes of these increases relics on accurate assessment of exposure and standardized diagnostic tests, such as for specific IgE in blood serum and skin testing. For many air pollutants it has proven difficult to assess an individual's exposure outside an occupational environment and reliable test development is hampered by not knowing whether an allergic or irritant mechanism is involved. These problems are particularly evident in the controversial issue of whether airborne releases from oilseed rape can cause health effects. ::: ::: Objective To develop a method for evaluating the allergic/irritant potential of air pollutants and to assess whether the volatile organic compounds emitted by oilseed rape have this potential. ::: ::: Methods Proteins were exposed in vitro to volatile organic compounds emitted by oilseed rape. Electrospray ionization-mass spectrometry was used to detect any resultant protein modifications. ::: ::: Results Dimethyl disulphide. thiocyanic acid methyl ester and 2-methyl-propaneni-trile were able to modify human proteins. In addition, two isothiocyanates which can be emitted by damaged oilseed rape also have this ability. The major products emitted by undamaged oilseed rape, terpenes, a sesquiterpene and a terpene alcohol did not have this property, but the possible role of their oxidized products is discussed ::: ::: Conclusion Some of the volatile organic compounds emitted by oilseed rape have the potential to be allergens irritants. Standardized modified proteins produced by this method should prove useful for biomonitoring human exposure in molecular epidemic-logical studies as well as in diagnostic tests. This method should find further application in investigations into the possible health effects of other environmental pollutants.
-1 ), in combination with three levels of sulphur (0, 20 and 40 kg SO 4 ha -1 ), in combination with three harvest times (35, 45 and 55 days after emergence; DAE), were tested in a factorial randomized block design. At each harvest, morphological, functional, yield and quality traits were assessed on plant samples. Extending the growing season from DAE 35 to 55 enhanced almost all the traits and greatly benefited dry biomass yield (ca. +100%). The longer growth also determined a higher efficiency in the accumulation of dry biomass per unit time and land surface (crop growth rate ca. +30%), as well as per unit time and leaf surface (net assimilation rate ca. +100%). Quality traits also improved when plants were harvested at a more advanced maturity: leaf hydrocyanic acid content, a toxic component to livestock, decreased by ca. 30%; stalk soluble-solid content, an indicator of forage juiciness and palatability, increased by ca. 50%. On concluding, the combined effects of harvest delay, P and S fertilization on sorghum are deemed able to significantly increase forage production in warm, relatively dry areas of the world.
Forage sorghum is highly responsive to applicationof nitrogen and irrigation. However, the information on the effect of theae two factors on the HCN which is a major toxic constituent in sorghum lacking, particularly during summer. Accordingly, this investigetion was undertaken to study the role of irrigation and nitrogen on hydrocyanic acid contro1 and forage yield in sorghum
Fumigation with hydrocyanic acid gas was successful in black scale control everywhere in California up to about 1910. Increased resistance to cyanide gas has developed and so spread as to seriously affect pest control over a thickly planted citrus area more than 30 miles long. Three sprays have shown results superior to fumigation. These sprays also control the citrus red spider against which fumigation is ineffective. Thorough sprying is essential. While fumigation gives practically uniform scale kill in all parts of the tree, top results have not been entirely satisfactory with sprays. The use of towers has greatly improved top spraying. Spraying averages about two-thirds the cost of fumigating.
The cyanide glycosides is a kind of highly toxic compounds,its very necessary to take the effective way to remove the cyanide glycosides before eating the crops,and reduce the residues in crops. In this paper,the different detoxification technology to remove the cyanide glycosides,including moisture detoxification technology,dry detoxification technology,microwave detoxification technology,solvent extraction detoxification, extrusion puffed detoxification technology and biological detoxification technology and so on,and these different test methods about cyanide glycosides and hydrocyanic acid in crops were completely summarized. It laid the foundation for the amount of scientific research workers to breed lower cyanide glycoside crops and choose a kind of more efficiency,more simple operation,more applicability and more security detoxification process.
A very simple, accurate, fast, selective and sensitive assay of cyanide based on its reaction with 2,2-dihydroxy-l,3-indanedione at basic pH is proposed. As little as 0.01 mug ml(-1) of cyanide can be determined. The molar absorptivity may reach 5.1-8.0x10(4) l mol(-1) cm(-1) depending on the reaction conditions. Thus, 1 ml of sample solution is mixed with 500 mul of 5 mg ml(-1) solution of 2,2-dihydroxy-1,3-indanedione monohydrate in 2% sodium carbonate. The absorbance of the purple color is measured at 510 nm in 1-cm glass cuvettes, 10-15 min after mixing the reagents. The procedure could also be used to identify free CN(-) in natural waters and hydrocyanic acid in the environment.
Food is stored in the embryo in the form of fatty oil; there is also considerable lecithin; neither starch nor sugar is present. The reaction of the cotyledons is acid, but the hypocotyl is slightly basic. The water-absorbing power of the hypocotyl is less than 25 per cent of the wet weight. There is a series of metabolic changes in the embryo during the period of after-ripening. The initial change seems to be an increased acidity. Correlated with this is an increased water-holding power, and an increase in the activity of catalase and peroxidase. Near the end of the period of after-ripening there is a sudden increase in the acidity, and in the water content; here oxidase first appears. All of these increase until the hypocotyl is 3-5 cm. long. At this time the fats decrease and sugar appears. Hydrocyanic acid is present in the cotyledons. The after-ripening period can be greatly shortened by treating the embryos with dilute acids, HCl, butyric, and acetic. The water-holding power, the acidity, and the am...
Post-translational modifications (PTMs) are (bio)chemical reactions in which amino-acid residues of proteins or peptides are covalently modified (1) . That process significantly increases the structural and functional diversity of proteins introducing a complexity to the proteome that is several orders of magnitude greater than the coding capacity of the genome (2) . PTMs are involved in many biological processes including enzyme activation, proteinprotein interactions, protein transport and turnover. Many commonly observed PTMs are routinely tracked as disease markers while others may represent appropriate molecular targets for the development of specific therapies (2) . aging and different pathological conditions (5) (6) (7) (8) . In chronic kidney disease (CKD) urea concentrations can exceed 100 mM allowing for hypothetical cyanate concentrations of 1 mM (9) . The fact that cyanate and isocyanic acid concentrations measured in CKD patients are in the range of 150 nM reflects the potential reactivity of cyanate particularly with plasma proteins as abundant as albumin and lipoproteins (10, 11) . Since homocitrullination is irreversible over a protein's life span, long-lived extracellular matrix proteins are preferential targets for modification. This has been demonstrated in vivo by detection of carbamylated extracellular matrix proteins in the kidneys of renal patients using specific anti-homocitrulline antibodies (12) . In accordance, accumulation of carbamylated proteins in various tissues was detected by LC-MS/MS in a mouse model of CKD (13) . Structural changes induced by carbamylation commonly result in functional alterations of the proteins affected and has been described for collagen, matrix metalloproteinase-2, inhibitor of metalloproteinase-2, LL-37, the complement system and insulin (10, (14) (15) (16) (17) . Importantly, carbamylation is also recognised as a biomarker predicting the clinical outcome of kidney disease (10, 12, 18) .
The KSS and N32 sorghum [Sorghum bieolor (L.) Moench) lines are low and high, respectively, in the hydrocyanic acid potential (HCN-p) of mature leaves. This difference is conditioned primarily by a single pair of alleles. The main objective of this study was to determine, at various stages of plant growth and various times during the growing season, the HCN-p of upper leaves and tillers of fieldgrown plants of these two parental lines and of two low-HCN-p F3 lines derived from crosses between KS8 and N32. The four entries were grown in a randomized complete block design with three replications in 1985. Samples of leaf tissue were dried, ground, and extracted, and cyanide in the extracts was assayed colorimetrically. Using a mean HCN-p level of SOO mg kg-I dry wt to separate safe from unsafe sorghum forage, all samples of KS8 mature leaves and tillers would be considered safe, and all N32 samples would be considered potentially dangerous. Values for most of the samples of the F J lines fell within the safe range, but some samples of young regrowth exceeded the 500 mg kg-I limit. Regressions of HCN-p on height for upper leaves of main stems and of tillers indicated a significant negative relationship for all entries except for leaves from the main stems of KS8. However, the relationship was not close enough to support the use of plant or tiller height as a reliable indicator of HCN-p. Levels of HCN-p also were determined for mature leaves and young regrowth of hybrids involving KS8, N32, and 'Redlan' sorghums as seed parents and NP25, 'Piper,' and 'Greenlear sudangrasses [So sudanense (Piper) Stapf) as pollinators.
Cyanogenesis, Prussic acid, Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench, Sorghum sudanense (Piper) Stapf, Sorghum X sudangrass hybrids. A RECENT COMPARISON of the hydrocyanic acid potential (HCN-p) of the grain sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] lines, KS8 and N32, indicated
), in combination with three harvest times (35, 45 and 55 days after emergence; DAE), were tested in a factorial randomized block design. At each harvest, morphological, functional, yield and quality traits were assessed on plant samples. Extending the growing season from DAE 35 to 55 enhanced almost all the traits and greatly benefited dry biomass yield (ca. +100%). The longer growth also determined a higher efficiency in the accumulation of dry biomass per unit time and land surface (crop growth rate ca. +30%), as well as per unit time and leaf surface (net assimilation rate ca. +100%). Quality traits also improved when plants were harvested at a more advanced maturity: leaf hydrocyanic acid content, a toxic component to livestock, decreased by ca. 30%; stalk soluble-solid content, an indicator of forage juiciness and palatability, increased by ca. 50%. On concluding, the combined effects of harvest delay, P and S fertilization on sorghum are deemed able to significantly increase forage production in warm, relatively dry areas of the world.
Maize (Zea mays L.) is an important multipurpose crop in Egypt and the world, used as human food and animal feed. Based on the cultivated area and production, it occupies the third rank after wheat and rice. The world production of maize has increased in the last decades, and it is expected to increase further in response to the climate change especially in the southern parts of Europe exhibiting a Mediterranean climate (Elsgaard et al., 2012) . In Egypt, it is one of the main summer annual green forage crops, upon which the feeding of livestock and poultry is greatly dependent. Maize is one of the most convenient non-legume green forages. It is a quick growing crop, with high biomass production that may reach 40-50 t ha -1 (Chaudhary et al., 2014) . When grown as green forage, it is advantaged by the high production of succulent vegetative parts in a comparatively short time. Compared to other forage grasses, maize is characterized by its high-energy content, considerable protein content (Safari et al., 2014) , high palatability and digestibility (Cusicanqui and Lauer, 1999) . In addition, it is free from any anti-nutritious compounds, which gives it a great advantage over sorghum and pearl millet, which are disadvantaged by the presence of hydrocyanic acid and oxalate, respective-N o n -c o m m e r c i a l u s e o n l y ly (Chaudhary et al., 2014) . Moreover, green forage maize possesses sufficient quantities of non-structural carbohydrates, especially soluble sugars, which make it suitable for ensiling (Mandić et al. 2013) .
To study the effects of inherent and external alkali and alkaline earth metallic species (AAEMs, i.e., K, Ca and Mg) on the behavior of N-containing species release during rice straw (RS) pyrolysis, different pretreatments were applied in numerous experiments. Results indicate that ammonia (NH 3 ) and hydrogen cyanide (HCN) are the major N-containing species and that the yields of isocyanic acid (HNCO) and nitric oxide (NO) are relatively low. The removal of inhert AAEMs shifts N-containing species release to a high-temperature zone according to volatile release behavior because of the increase in activation energy. The formation selectivity of NH 3 , HNCO, and NO increases by demineralized pretreatment, whereas HCN selectivity decreases. The formation of HNCO is mainly affected by alkaline earth metal. N-containing species release occurs in low temperatures with the addition of external AAEMs. The activation energy of samples impregnated with CaCl 2 and MgCl 2 sharply decreases compared to the original RS. The total yields of N-containing species are reduced significantly in the presence of KCl, CaCl 2 , and MgCl 2 as additives. The inhibition ability of AAEMs follows the sequence MgCl 2 > CaCl 2 > KCl. The inhibition effect of MgCl 2 can be improved by solution immersion compared with solid powder mixing. The clean biomass pyrolysis and gasification technology with low N-containing species content may be developed according to the results.
Pyrolysis is the initial step of biomass thermal utilization, wherein fuel nitrogen will be converted to volatile-N and char-N during biomass pyrolysis. Volatile-N such as ammonia (NH 3 ), hydrogen cyanide (HCN), and isocyanic acid (HNCO) will be oxidized to NO x in the subsequent oxidation process [6] . N-containing species release during coal pyrolysis has been studied for more than 20 years. However, the N conversions of biomass and coal are caused by different N occurrence forms. The main N-containing compounds of coal are pyrrole and pyridine, whereas the main N-containing compounds of biomass are proteins and amino acids [7] . In recent years, N release and conversion during biomass pyrolysis have been considered by several researchers. Most previous studies focus on the effects of pyrolysis conditions, such as temperature, particle size, biomass type, and atmosphere on N-containing species formation [8] [9] [10] [11] . Furthermore, model compounds such as amino acids, proteins, and 6-disubstituted-2,5-diketopiperazines have been selected to study N conversion during biomass pyrolysis [6, 7, 12] .
Livestock production in tropical areas plays a crucial role, which extends beyond its traditional supply of meat and milk. Livestock are used for multiple purposes as draft power, means of transportation, capital, credit, meat, milk, social value, hides, and provide a source of organic fertilizer for seasonal cropping. Ruminants can utilise agricultural crop residues and farm by-products that are abundantly available (Wanapat and Kang, 2013a; Jetana and Bintbihok, 2013) . Cassava (Manihot esculenta Crantz) is an annual crop grown widely in the tropical and subtropical regions. It thrives well in sandy-loam soils with low organic matter, and in climates with low rainfall and high temperature. Cassava roots have high levels of energy (75 to 85% of soluble carbohydrate) and minimal levels of crude protein (2 to 3% CP); they have been used as a source of readily-fermentable energy (Kang et al., 2015; Polyorach et al., 2013; , while the top growth could be harvested at four months initially and at 2 to 3 month intervals subsequently. The leaves and green stems are chopped and sun-dried to reduce their moisture and hydrocyanic acid (HCN) content to produce cassava hay (CH), which has been used as a ruminant feedings successfully (Wanapat, 2000 (Wanapat, , 2003 Lunsin et al., 2012) . Harvesting of cassava leaves at an early growth stage (3 months) to make hay could reduce the condensed tannin (CT) content and increase the protein content (25% of DM) resulting in a higher nutritive value (Wanapat et al., 1997) . Root yield is about 50 t/h and when processed into dried chip, it will be about 15 to 20 t/h. If the whole plant is harvested for hay making after 4 months after planting, it can be harvested when reaching one year, in this case the root yield will be reduced about 15% from the original yield.
Abstract The pyrolysis and combustion characteristics of urea-formaldehyde resin (UFR) residue were investigated by using thermogravimetric analysis, coupled with Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (TG-FTIR). It is indicated that the pyrolysis process can be subdivided into three stages: drying the sample, fast thermal decomposition and further cracking process. The total weight loss of 90 wt.% at 950 °C is found in pyrolysis, while 74 wt.% of the original mass lost in the second stage is between 195 °C and 430 °C. The emissions of carbon dioxide, isocyanic acid, ammonia, hydrocyanic acid and carbon monoxide are identified in UFR residue pyrolysis, moreover, isocyanic acid emitted at low temperature is found as the most important nitrogen-containing gaseous product in UFR residue pyrolysis, and there is a large amount of hydrocyanic acid emitted at high temperature. The similar TG and emission characteristics as the first two stages during pyrolysis are found in UFR residue combustion at low temperature. The combustion process almost finishes at 600 °C; moreover, carbon dioxide and water are identified as the main gaseous products at high temperature. It is indicated that the UFR residue should be pyrolyzed at low temperature to remove the initial nitrogen, and the gaseous products during pyrolysis should be burnt in high temperature furnace under oxygen-rich conditions for pollutant controlling.
RATIONALE ::: Protein citrullination (deimination) is a post-translational modification of proteins converting arginine(s) into citrulline(s). "Overcitrullination" could be associated with severe pathological conditions. Mass spectrometric analysis of modified proteins is hindered by several problems. A comprehensive study of the fragmentation of deiminated peptides is not yet available. In this paper we have made an attempt to describe the characteristics of these processes, based on the studies of epitope model oligopeptides derived from clinically relevant proteins. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Solutions of purified model peptides containing either one or two citrulline residues as well as their native variants were injected directly into the electrospray source of a high accuracy and resolution quadrupole-time-of-flight instrument and were analysed by tandem mass spectrometry using low-energy collision-induced dissociation. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Loss of isocyanic acid from citrulline residues is a preferred fragmentation route for deiminated peptides, which yields ornithine residues in the sequence. However, simultaneous detection of both the isocyanic acid loss and sequence fragments is often compromised. A preferential cleavage site was observed between citrulline and any other following amino acids yielding intensive complementary b- and y-type ions. Also, citrulline positioned at the C-termini displays a preferential cleavage N-terminal to this residue yielding characteristic y1 ions. These phenomena are described here for the first time and are referred to as the "citrulline effect". ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: We found that the citrulline effect is very pronounced and could be used as a complementary tool for the confirmation of modification sites in addition to losses of isocyanic acids from the protonated molecules or from fragment ions. Low collision energy applied to peptide ions having partially mobile protons reveals the site of modification by generating specific and intensive fragments of the sequence. On the other hand, fragmenting precursor ions with mobile protons usually allows full sequence coverage, although citrulline-specific fragments may exhibit lower intensities compared to other fragments.
PAH Maleic hydrazlde (MH), a plant growth regulator applied to -Itobacco, undergoes thermal degradation to Isacyanic acid. In OTHERS model pyrolysis studies, ethanol and methanol (both present in tobacco and tobacco smoke) react with isocyanic acid to give ethyl corbamate (urethan, an animal carcinogen) and methyl carbamate. Two solvent partition steps, column chromatography, and GClMS constitute the method used to identily and quantitate ethyl carbamate in tobacco smoke. The NH 2 smoke of MH-treated and untreated tobaccos contained I comparable amounts of ethyl corbamate, 20-38 ng/cigarette. Similarly, treated and untreated tobaccos showed no major NH2 difference in ethyl corbamate levels (310 and 375 nglg, + r The method should be useful for the analysis of OTHERS
Abstract Ab initio and density functional calculations were used to analyze the interaction between a molecule of cyanic acid (HOCN) and up to 4 molecules of water at the B3LYP/6-311++G(d,p) and MP2/6-311++G(d,p) computational levels. The cooperative effect (CE) is increased with the increasing size of the studied clusters. Red shifts of the H–O stretching frequency for complexes involving HOCN as an H-donor were predicted. The strength of the hydrogen bonds in terms of molecular structures could be deduced from a comparison of HOCN–H2O with HCNO–H2O, HONC–H2O and HNCO–H2O HB clusters. The atom in molecules (AIM) method was used to analyze the cooperative effects on topological parameters.
Abstract Isocyanic acid (HNCO) is a trace gas pollutant of potential importance to human health whose measurement has recently become possible through the development of negative-ion proton-transfer chemical ionization mass spectrometry (NI-PT-CIMS) with acetate reagent ion. In this manuscript, an alternative ionization and detection scheme, in which HNCO is quantified by iodide CIMS (iCIMS) as a cluster ion at m / z 170, is described. The sensitivity was inversely proportional to water vapor concentration but could be made independent of humidity changes in the sampled air by humidifying the ion–molecule reaction (IMR) region of the CIMS. The performance of the two ionization schemes was compared and contrasted using ambient air measurements of HNCO mixing ratios in Calgary, AB, Canada, by NI-PT-CIMS with acetate reagent ion from Dec 16 to 20, 2013, and by the same CIMS operated in iCIMS mode from Feb 3 to 7, 2014. The iCIMS exhibited a greater signal-to-noise ratio than the NI-PT-CIMS, not because of its sensitivity, which was lower (∼0.083 normalized counts per second (NCPS) per parts-per-trillion by volume (ppt v ) compared to ∼9.7 NCPS ppt v −1 ), but because of a much lower and more stable background (3 ± 4 compared to a range of ∼2 × 10 3 to ∼6 × 10 3 NCPS). For the Feb 2014 data set, the HNCO mixing ratios in Calgary air ranged from v (median 34 ppt v ), were marginally higher at night than during day, and correlated with nitrogen oxide (NO x = NO + NO 2 ) mixing ratios and submicron particle volume. The ratios of HNCO to NO x observed are within the range of emission ratios reported for gasoline-powered motor vehicles.
In preventing and combating the chemical terrorist activities,in addition to those concerned highly toxic and huge harmful chemicals,some of mass destruction,widely affecting and poisoning of concealment volatile chemicals should also be concerned,such as hydrocyanic acid,hydrogen sulfide and methanethiol.Improvement of the identification and prevention awareness of such chemicals would be more effective in fighting against terrorist crimes.This article introduced the physical and chemical property and the toxicity of methanethiol,and the analysis method of the chemical in blood sample by GC-MS.
Abstract Isocyanic acid in air is determined quantitatively by collection in a scrubber solution of N-4-nitrobenzyl-N-n-propylamine. The urea derivative, which is formed, is determined by using reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography.
To the Editor.— As previously reported inThe Journal(240:1139, 1978), the "antineoplastic diet" of laetrile proponents calls for megadoses of ascorbic acid (vitamin C) among other dietary requirements. We performed a series of experiments designed to see if ascorbic acid would increase the hydrolysis of laetrile (amygdalin) to benzaldehyde and hydrocyanic acid (HCN), and therefore increase the probability that the patient would suffer from cyanide poisoning while receiving laetrile therapy. Six Conway microdiffusion cells were prepared as shown in the Table. A plastic cover was sealed in place with a water-soluble starch-glycerol paste. The sealed cells were incubated at 37 °C for one hour and then left an additional hour at room temperature. The potassium hydroxide solutions were then analyzed for cyanide levels by the method of Valentour. 1 The results are also shown in the Table. The Table shows that the presence of ascorbic acid did increase the
Abstract Dissociative photoionization reactions of internal energy selected urea cations were studied by vacuum ultraviolet threshold photoionization at the imaging photoelectron photoion coincidence (iPEPICO) endstation of the VUV beamline at the Swiss Light Source. An accurate T = 0 K appearance energy could be determined for the lowest energy channel, the formation of isocyanic acid (HNCO) and ammonia cation (NH 3 + ). This process is analogous to the thermolysis of urea in selective catalytic reduction (SCR) for which Δ r H o 0K = (62.9 ± 1.0) kJ · mol −1 is derived. The next higher energy channel leading to H 2 NCO + and NH 2 is also discussed. The parent ion was found to dissociative quickly to HNCO + NH 3 + even at threshold, indicating a loose transition state. The potential energy surface of a roaming H atom around the urea core shows lower H-transfer barriers in the cation than in the neutral molecule, and the measured dissociative photoionization energy is lower than expected based on the literature enthalpies of formation. Consequently, the threshold for HNCO loss corresponds to the dissociative photoionization energy and not to a prior H-transfer barrier. A significant, 5.1 kJ · mol −1 discrepancy between the dissociation energy and the reaction energy calculated with the latest published values of the enthalpy of formation warrants a revision of the urea and isocyanic acid thermochemistry. This discrepancy is assigned to enthalpies of formation with the help of W1 and CBS-APNO ab initio calculations. The isocyanic acid enthalpy of formation at T = 0 K and that of gas phase urea at T = 298 K are, thus, revised to Δ f H o 0K (HNCO, g) = –(116.2 ± 1.4) kJ · mol −1 and Δ f H o 298K (CO(NH 2 ) 2 , g) = –(235.7 ± 1.4) kJ · mol −1 , respectively.
An aqueous photolysis study was conducted with radiolabeled thiamethoxam, 4H-1,3,5-oxadiazin-2-imine, 3-[(2-chloro-5-thiazolyl)methyl]tetrahydro-5-methyl-N-nitro, to establish the relevance of aqueous photolysis as a transformation process for 14C-[thiazolyl]-thiamethoxam. 14 C-[thiazolyl]-thiamethoxam was applied to sterile sodium acetate pH 5 buffer solution at a dose rate of approximately 10 ppm. The resulting samples were incubated for up to 30 days at 25 °C under irradiated and nonirradiated conditions. The irradiated samples were exposed to a 12-hour-on and 12-hour-off light cycle. Volatile fractions accounted for up to an average of 56.76% of the total dose for the irradiated incubations and <0.08% for the nonirradiated incubations. These fractions were proposed to be a mixture of carbonyl sulfide (COS) and isocyanic acid (CONH). Verification of these components was accomplished by trapping with cyclohexylamine and formation of the thiocarbamate and the isocyanic acid derivatives. A similar method of trapping thiocarbamate metabolites was reported (Chen and Casida, 1978) where filter paper saturated with isobutylamine in methanol was arranged to trap 14 COS and 14 CO 2 under a positive flow of O 2 at 25 °C. Mass spectroscopy of the derivatized components confirmed the presence of carbonyl sulfide as the cyclohexylamine thiocarbamate and of isocyanic acid as its cyclohexylamine derivative. Evidence from this study indicates that thiamethoxam degrades significantly under photolytic conditions.
After summarising current knowledge about the origins of primitive Earth organic matter, we focus our attention solely on α-amino acids and their derivatives. We then analyze the mechanism for the formation of these compounds, under both extraterrestrial and primitive-Earth conditions, and show that a "multicomponent sys- tem" consisting of prebiotic molecules (hydrogen cyanide, several carbonyl compounds, ammonia, alkyl amines, carbonic anhydride, sodium bicarbonate, borate, cyanic acid) may have been the precursors of these essential compounds. We show that this multi- component system leads reversibly to several intermediate nitriles, which irreversibly evolve, first to α-amino acids and N-carbamoyl amino acids via selective catalytic processes, and then to N -carbamoyl amino acids alone.
Abstract The nutritive value of African starapple, Chrysophyllum albidum , was evaluated chemically. Chemical analyses were carried out on the peel and the edible pulp. The peel was shown to contain 58·9% moisture, 6·1% protein, 12·4% lipid, 4·6% ash, 62·4% carbohydrate and 14·5% crude fibre. The pulp contained 67·5% moisture, 8·8% protein, 15·1% lipid, 68·7% carbohydrate, 4·0% crude fibre and 3·4% ash. Analysis of the fruit for minerals showed the peel to contain (in mg/100 g dry matter): calcium, 250; potassium, 1175; sodium, 12; copper, 2·0; magnesium, 90; zinc, 3·8; iron, 200; and phosphorus, 76·8. The pulp contained (in mg/100 g dry matter): calcium, 100; potassium, 1175; sodium, 10; copper 2·0; magnesium, 75; zinc, 3·2; iron, 10; and phosphorus, 75·4. The peel contained ascrobic acid 239·1 mg/100 g and the pulp, 446·1 mg/100 g. Some toxicants were shown to be present. The peel contained 264 mg/100 g tannins and the pulp, 627 mg/100 g. The total oxalate content in the peel was 211 mg/100 g and in the pulp, 167 mg/100 g. The hydrocyanic acid content was 5·4 mg/100 g in the peel and 6·8 mg/100 g in the pulp. The phytic acid content was 0·8 mg/100 g in the peel and 1·6 mg/100 g in the pulp. The contribution of the fruit of African starapple to the nutrient requirements of consumers is discussed as well as other possible uses for the fruit.
Abstract Long-term exposure to increased levels of reactive nitrogen compounds (RNCs) and particulate matter (PM) affect human health. Many cities are currently not able to fulfill European air quality standards for these critical pollutants. Meanwhile, promising new abatement technologies such as diesel particle filters (DPFs) and selective catalytic reduction (SCR) catalysts are developed to reduce PM and RNC emissions. Herein, effects of a urea-based SCR system on RNC emissions are discussed and we quantified the highly reactive intermediates isocyanic acid (HNCO) and ammonia (NH 3 ), both potential secondary pollutants of the urea-based SCR chemistry. A diesel engine (3.0 L, 100 kW), operated in the ISO 8178/4 C1, cycle was used as test platform. A V 2 O 5 -based SCR catalyst was either applied as such or down-stream of a high oxidation potential-DPF (hox-DPF). With active SCR, nitric oxide (NO) and nitrogen dioxide (NO 2 ) conversion efficiencies of 0.86–0.94 and 0.86–0.99 were obtained. On the other hand, mean HNCO and NH 3 emissions increased to 240–280 and 1800–1900 mg h −1 . On a molar basis, HNCO accounted for 0.8–1.4% and NH 3 for 14–25% of the emitted RNCs. On roads, SCR systems will partly be inactive when exhaust temperatures drop below 220 °C. The system was active only during 75% of the test cycle, and urea dosing was stopped and restarted several times. Consequently, NO conversion stopped but interestingly, NO 2 was still converted. Such light-off and shutdown events are frequent in urban driving, compromising the overall deNO x efficiency. Another important effect of the SCR technology is illustrated by the NH 3 /NO 2 ratio, which was >1 with active SCR, indicating that exhaust is basic rather than acidic after the SCR catalyst. Under these conditions, isocyanic acid is stable. The widespread use of various converter technologies already affected RNC release. Diesel oxidation catalysts (DOCs) and hox-DPFs increased NO 2 emissions, three-way catalysts (TWCs) those of NH 3 . The investigated SCR technology substantially lowered NO and NO 2 emissions, while NH 3 levels were comparable to those of TWC vehicles (300–1500 mg h −1 ). If applied in the future, the combined DPF/SCR technology will change ambient RNC levels, PM compositions and atmospheric redox- and acid/base-chemistry in traffic-affected areas.
The hydrocyanic acid content of peeled cassava tubers from various localities in Eastern Nigeria (major cassava growing and consuming area) varied from 26 ± 1.6 to 38 ± 2.6 mg/100g fresh weight. There was no correlation between the cyanide contents of cassava tubers and locality. ::: ::: Processing the tubers with the highest cyanide content into different forms of cassava-based foodstuffs (i.e. Garri, Fufu, cassava cake and cassava chips for cassava salad) consumed in Nigeria resulted in an undetectable amount of cyanide. It is concluded that these cassava-based foodstuffs consumed in Nigeria are free from cyanide toxication, and the incidence of ataxic neuropathy associated with prolonged consumption of cassava as a result of its cyanide content should not be due to prolonged consumption of processed cassava products.
Cigarette smoke is recognized as having harmful health effects for the smoker and for people breathing second-hand smoke. In an atmospheric chemistry context, however, little is known about the fate of organic nitrogen compounds present in cigarette smoke. Indeed, the atmospheric oxidation of nicotine, a major nitrogen-containing component of cigarette smoke, by OH radicals has yet to be investigated. We measured the first rate coefficient between OH and nicotine to be (8.38 ± 0.28) × 10–11 cm3 molecule–1 s–1 at 298 ± 3 K. We use an online proton-transfer-reaction mass spectrometer (PTR-MS) to quantify nicotine’s oxidation products, including formamide and isocyanic acid (HNCO). We present the first evidence that HNCO is formed from nicotine’s gas phase oxidation, and we highlight the potential for this toxic molecule to be an indoor air pollutant after smoking has ended. Mechanistic pathways for the oxidation of nicotine by OH radicals were investigated by theoretical calculations at the M06-2X level of ...
Toxicity of fire harmful reactive products is one of the main elements to cause death in fire. In this paper, biological toxicology of some harmful products of combustion, such as carbon monoxide and hydrocyanic acid, is indicated. And hereby the harm mechanism of carbon monoxide, hydrocyanic acid to organism is revealed.
Abstract A series of 9, 10-dihydro-9-oxa-10-phosphaphenanthrene-10-oxide (DOPO) based derivatives were synthesized and incorporated as flame retardant additives in rigid polyurethane foam (RPUF). The flame retardant performance of DOPO derivatives in RPUF was investigated and compared with traditional flame retardant tris(1-chloro-2-propyl) phosphate (TCPP) and reactive flame retardant (diol) based on oligomeric ethyl ethylene phosphate (PLF140). The flame retardant performance of rigid foams was evaluated by UL 94 HB test, limiting oxygen index (LOI) and cone calorimetry (CONE). Thermal stability of RPUF samples was analyzed by thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) and pyrolysis combustion flow calorimeter (PCFC). The thermal decomposition mechanism of the flame retardant RPUF and the mode of action of the flame retardants were investigated via pyrolysis-gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (Py-GC–MS) and thermogravimetric analyzer coupled with FTIR and MS (TG-FTIR-MS). Scanning electron microscope-energy dispersive X-ray (SEM-EDX) was used to analyze the char residue of the RPUF. It was observed that, addition of 2 wt% phosphorus in RPUF helps achieve HF1 rating in UL 94 HB test and reduces the peak of heat release rate by 23%–42% in cone calorimeter measurements. Additionally, in cone calorimeter measurements, compared to RPUF containing TCPP and PLF140, RPUF containing DOPO derivatives exhibit lower smoke and toxicant production and increased char residue. For RPUF containing 6-(2-(4,6-diamino-1,3,5-triazin-2-yl)ethyl) dibenzo[ c,e ][1,2]oxaphosphinine 6-oxide (DTE-DOPO), production of decomposition products such as –NCO containing compounds, HCN, hydrocarbons, amines and cyanic acid were significantly decreased compared to virgin RPUF. RPUF/DTE-DOPO formulation resulted in a compact and tough char structure which proves its strong barrier effect in the condensed phase. The detailed flame retardant mechanisms of TCPP and DTE-DOPO in RPUF are further elaborated in this work.
Schiff-base template condensation of 2,6-diacetylpyridine with the diamine 3,3′-diaminodipropylamine on Ag+, Pb2+, Ca2+, or Sr2+ led to binuclear Ag+ and Pb2+ and mononuclear Ca2+ and Sr2+ complexes of the 28-membered ligand H2L. A series of binuclear CuII complexes of this macrocycle, including [Cu2(H2L)(NCS)4], were prepared by transmetallation in acetonitrile solution. A complex of formula Cu2(HL)(BPh4)3·2MeCN was prepared from [Sr(H2L)][BPh4]2 and Cu(O2CMe)2 in the presence of excess NaBPh4. This cation was characterised by e.s.r. as a dicopper(II) complex of the singly deprotonated ligand H L–. The complex [Cu2(L)(HNCS)2][BPh4]2·1.5MeCN was prepared, which showed νasym(NCS) at 1 992 cm–1, characteristic of bridging thiocyanate. A single-crystal X-ray structure determination was carried out. Crystals were triclinic, space group P with a= 14.695(11), b= 14.051(11), c= 20.721(11)A, α=111.5(1), β= 98.8(1), γ= 100.3(1)°, and Z= 2.3 969 Independent reflections above background have been measured on a diffractometer and the structure refined to R= 0.089. The unit cell contains two independent cations both with imposed symmetry, four BPh4– anions and solvent molecules. In both cations the Cu ⋯ Cu distance is 7.25 A. Each copper atom is bonded to four nitrogen atoms of the macrocycle and nitrogen of a terminal thiocyanate. The Cu–N–C(S) angles were unusually small at 100(2) and 109(2)°. We believe that the explanation for the correlated phenomenon of small CU–N–C angle and a low value for the νasym(NCS) absorption is that proton transfer has occurred from the co-ordinated NH group to the NCS ion, making this a complex of thiocyanic acid with the macrocyclic ligand being in the doubly deprotonated form L2–.
Abstract Twenty-four male weanling African giant rats were allocated to four treatment groups in a 16-week trial. Their diets were based on (1) maize, (2) cassava peel, (3) cassava whole tuber and (4) cassava pulp. Hydrocyanic acid (HCN) content of diets was 0, 597, 150 and 110 mg/kg, respectively. Diets were isocaloric and isonitrogenous. Feed consumption was similar on all diets. Growth rate, feed efficiency and protein efficiency ratio were better ( P P
In the synthesis of cyanuric acid from NH3 and CO2, urea and isocyanic acid OCNH are two pivotal intermediates. Based on density functional theory (DFT) calculations, the synthesis mechanism of cyanuric acid from NH3 + CO2 was investigated systematically. Urea can be synthesized from NH3 and CO2, and cyanuric acid can be obtained from urea or NH3 + CO2. In the stepwise mechanism of cyanuric acid from urea or NH3 + CO2, the energy barriers are relatively high, and the condition of high pressure and temperature does not decrease the energy barriers. Our theoretical model shows that cyanuric acid is actually acquired from OCNH via a one-step cycloaddition reaction.
The invention relates to a method of the catalytic oxidation and purification of tail gas containing hydrocyanic acid, in particular to a method for purifying the tail gas containing hydrocyanic acid by using a chemical method. The tail gas containing hydrocyanic acid is enabled to react with a prepared mixed catalyst solution containing palladium and copper under the temperature of 4 to 100 DEG C in a absorption tower, and the tail gas containing hydrocyanic acid is blown into the absorption tower in a gas-liquid negative-direction contact way, part of the hydrocyanic acid contacts and reacts with the palladium ions to form insoluble palladium simple substance, and part of the hydrocyanic acid reacts with the copper ions to form insoluble phosphor copper, part of the hydrocyanic acid is oxidized into phosphoric acid; all the generated substances enter into the liquid phase, and the mixed catalyst solution which absorbs the hydrocyanic acid and the purified and qualified tail gas not containing the hydrocyanic acid are acquired, the mixed hydrocyanic acid catalyst solution is oxidized into a by-product of the phosphoric acid to be used as resources again, the problems of hydrocyanic acid pollution is effectively eliminated, and the method provided by the invention provides a practical purifying method for the calcium carbide furnace gas and yellow phosphorus exhaust gas used as monocarbide chemical raw materials.
Various reactions of cyanic acid and the cyanate ion have been examined. Cyanic acid, in the presence of added hydrochloric or nitric acid, decomposes quantitatively according to the equation: HNCO + H3O+ → CO2 + NH4+. The rate constant for this reaction was measured over a range of temperature and ionic strength, and was found to be 0.86 mole liter−1 min.−1 at unit ionic strength and 1.5 °C. The activation energy is The effect of ionic strength on the reaction with hydrochloric acid closely parallels that on the activity coefficients of the acid itself. Without added acid cyanic acid decomposes by a first order reaction: HNCO + 2H2O → NH4HCO3, followed by a rapid second stage: NH4HCO3 + HNCO → NH4NCO + H2CO3. This reaction has a rate constant of 0.011 min.−1 at 0 °C. and an activation energy of 16 kcal. There is also a few per cent of some side reaction. Cyanate ions in alkaline solution decompose thus: OCN− + 2H2O → NH4+ + CO3−−. This reaction was examined over a range of temperature and ionic strength:...
The invention discloses a method for preparing an alcohol soluble polyurethane coating. The method comprises the following steps of: 1) dehydrating polyether or polyester polyhydric alcohol, of which the average molecular weight is 500 to 5,000, and adding polyisocyanate for reaction according to a molar ratio of isocyanic acid radicals contained in the polyisocyanate to hydroxyl radicals containing the polyether or polyester polyhydric alcohol of 1.1-1.4:1 to form a hydroxyl-terminated polyurethane prepolymer; and 2) directly adding the products obtained by the step 1) to a oligomer or polymer of ethylene oxide of which the molecular weight is 100 to 10,000 without separation for blocking reaction, adding proper amount of ethanol to lower the viscosity of the system when the viscosity of the system increases as the reaction continues, and after complete reaction, obtaining the transparent alcohol soluble polyurethane coating. The alcohol soluble polyurethane coating has the advantages of simple synthetic operation process, good stability, no toxic solvents, and no pollution to human bodies and environment, and is suitable to be used in places with higher requirements on curing time of a coating layer, visual effect of the coating layer and environmental protection standards.
Summary. Summer forages, including Sorghum bicolor hybrids, S, sudanense, S. bicolor x S. sudanense hybrids, perennial sorghum, maize and Pennisetum and Echinochloa millets, were grown on an alkaline clay soil at Trangie, New South Wales. Primary growth was sampled every 3 weeks and the plant components analysed for nitrogen, sulfur, sodium and in vitro dry matter digestibility. Whole plants were analysed for calcium, magnesium, phosphorus, potassium and chloride content. Fresh leaf samples were ana- lysed for potential hydrocyanic acid (HCN) yield. The quality attributes were regressed on time in order to describe accurately the quality ofa forage at different times in its growth. Sorghum species, particularly the sweet sorghum hybrids and perennial sorghum, had high HCN potentials (0.15 and 0.149'0, respectively, at 8 weeks). They had low contents of sulfur, especially in the stem fraction and this decreased with time. Hence the nitrogen:sulfur ratio was always marginally high or, in sweet sorghum hybrids and perennial sor- ghum, above the recommended optimum of 15 : 1 for animal nutrition. Furthermore, they were deficient in sodium, particularly in the leaf frac- tion, while digestibility decreased rapidly with age. Nevertheless, Piper Sudangrass had a low HCN potential, which would allow it to be grazed early when digestibility was high (70°/o at 7 weeks). Maize had a negligible HCN potential, a nitro- gen: sulfur ratio consistently below 15: 1 and a sodium content intermediate between sorghum and millet species. Millets had a negligible HCN potential and high sodium content, particularly Echinochloa utilis. This species also had a high sulfur content and hence very low nitrogen: sulfur ratio; it is recommended for early grazing to obtain high quality forage.
The hydrolysis and fate of cyanogen chloride (CK) in the presence of triethylenediamine (TEDA)—a widely used carbon impregnant—in aqueous and nonaqueous (acetonitrile) media has been determined. In the presence of water, anticipated TEDA substitution is not observed; rather, simple base-catalyzed (OH−) hydrolysis to cyanic acid (HOCN; unstable in water, decomposing to CO2 and NH3) is the major reaction, accompanied by a series of complex side reactions (not involving TEDA) to form several persistent compounds. Thus, the role of TEDA, in the presence of water, is primarily a source of OH−. CK substitution at TEDA is observed in acetonitrile, again forming several complex, but quite different, species. Studies examining the removal of CK from humidified air streams by carbon impregnated with TEDA and/or basic Cu2+ (another common carbon impregnant) are consistent with simple hydrolysis being the major CK-removal mechanism; no TEDA substitution is observed in the presence of humidity/water. Considering the r...
Various processes such as metal finishing, photographic bleaching and galvanic industry produce substantial amount of wastewater, which may contain up to 70 g/l of free cyanide and could have a high content of metal (50 g/l). Unexpectedly, effluents of food and feed production can also contain cyanide. For example in Northern Europe bitter almonds are used to make marzipan and they contain amygdalin, a cyanogenic glycoside. Cyano-glycosides yield glucose, benzaldehyde and hydrocyanic acid when hydrolyzed in vitro by mineral acids or in vivo by enzymes. The name amygdalin (d-mandelonitrile-
Cassava can also be processed in several ways to produce different food products. Among the processes cassava can be subjected to, are "gari" production, boiling, flour for baking, soup thickeners, specialty food for gastrointestinal disorders and fermented flour which is cooked in boiled water to form a somewhat acidic paste called fufu, which is consumed with a sauce or vegetables. Several studies have shown that cassava contains digestible starch, vitamins and a low score of amino acids [3] . However, two major limiting factors in the utilization of cassava are, low shelf life and the presence in various proportions of cyanide compounds, which hydrolysis leads to the production of hydrocyanic acid (HCN), a substance toxic to humans [4] [5] . Ingestion of foods containing cyanide compounds have also been reported to cause an upper neuron disease known as "Konzo", which is characterized by abrupt onset of spastic paralysis, nausea and vomiting [6] . The presence of these cyanogenic glucosides necessitates the processing of roots prior to consumption. Fermentation not only enhances detoxification but may also improve the quality of the food under process [7] . Traditionally, fermented cassava flour is made by soaking cassava roots in water for 3 to 5 days, followed by the process of draining, drying and milling. [7] (Numfor et al., 1995) showed that changes in physicochemical properties of cassava flour produced were attributable to the spontaneous fermentation occurring during soaking. In order to reduce the time of root softening during the fermentation process, starters can be added to the fermentation medium at the beginning of the fermentation, which can modify physicochemical properties of cassava flour. Knowing that, application of flour from different plant sources in food systems depends greatly on information about the physicochemical properties of such food materials, the aim of this study was to determine the effect of fermentation on pasting properties and cyanogenic compounds of cassava flour.
Objective To establish the high performance liquid chromatography method that determines the content of glutanic acid,alanin and glycine in the glu-ala-glycine,and then determine three kinds of amino acid content in the chewable lablet with this method,provide the basis for this preparation quality specification formulation.Methods Isothiocyanic acid base phenyl ester pre-column derivatization was used for the determination of three kinds of amino acids contents in the glu-ala-glycine chewable lablet by high performance liquid chromatography,the chromatography condition was inertsil ODS-3V(4.6×250mm,5μm);flows A was(0.1)mol/L sodium acetate-acetic acid buffer solution(pH6.5)/ acetonitrile(93:7),and flows B was the distilled water/ acetonitrile(20∶80) dual gradient elution separation;the examination wave length was 254nm;the speed of flow was 1ml/min;the column temperature was 40℃.The external standard law was used to calculate three kinds of amino acid contents.Results The dissociation degree of the glutanic acid,the alanin and the glycine was good in the glu-ala-glycine chewable lablet.The calibration curve was linear within the range of concentration,r0.99,and the average returns ratio was 98.7% with the within-day and inter-day RSD1.3%,and the contents of three kinds of amino acid was with in 95%～105% among three batch of samples.Conclusion Three kinds of amino acid content in the glu-ala-glycine chewable lablet can be determined with pre-column derivatization by high performance liquid chromatography.
Liquid chromatography (LC) with positive ion electrospray ionization (ESI+) coupled to a hybrid quadrupole linear ion trap (LTQ) and Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance mass spectrometry (FTICRMS) was employed for the simultaneous determination of caffeine and its metabolites in human urine within a single chromatographic run. LC/ESI-FTICRMS led to the unambiguous determination of the molecular masses of the studied compounds without interference from other biomolecules. A systematic and comprehensive study of the mass spectral behaviour of caffeine and its fourteen metabolites by tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) was performed, through in-source ion trap collision-induced dissociation (CID) of the protonated molecules, [M+H]+. A retro-Diels-Alder (RDA) process along with ring-contraction reactions were the major fragmentation pathways observed during CID. The base peak of xanthine precursors originates from the loss of methyl isocyanate (CH3NCO, 57 Da) or isocyanic acid (HNCO, 43 Da), which in turn lose a CO unit. Also uric acid derivatives shared a RDA rearrangement as a common fragmentation process and a successive loss of CO2 or CO. The uracil derivatives showed a loss of a ketene unit (CH2CO, 42 Da) from the protonated molecule along with the loss of H2O or CO. To assess the potential of the present method three established metabolite ratios to measure P450 CYP1A2, N-acetyltransferase and xanthine oxidase activities were evaluated by a number of identified metabolites from healthy human urine samples after caffeine intake. Copyright © 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Phytotron and field experiments were conducted to determine the influence of morphological growth stage and environmental temperature on synthesis and accumulation pattern of cyanogenic glycosides in sorghum cv. Pioneer 931 and Sioux at Munich technical university from 1979 to 1980. Various growth stages of sorghum plants were grown in phytotron at 4 different temperature regimes of 30/25, 25/20, 28/18 and 18/8 degree C with 35,000 Lux over 13-h days. The results obtained are summarized as follows: 1. Cyanogenic glycosides in sorghum plants were shown to have a great synthetic rate at early growth stages. The highest concentrations of hydrocyanic acid (HCN) were found at 2-leaf stage with 2384 and 1800ppm (DM basis) for Pioneer 931 and Sioux respectively. The contents of HCN were, however, however decreased markedly as morphological development, which shows a value of 173ppm (Pioneer 931) and 70ppm (Sioux) at heading stages. 2. Changes of hydrocyanic acid in sorghum plants were positive correlated with leaf weight ratio and leaf area ratio (), while plant height shows a negative correlation with HCN contents (). 3. Cyanogenic glycosides were accumulated in young plants mainly in leaves. During the late maturities, the contents of HCN in leaves and stalks were shown, however, a similar distribution. 4. Synthesis rates of cyanogenic glycosides were increased under high temperature. Accumulated hydrocyanic acid in the plants was, however declined when temperature exceeded 30 degree C. 5. Synthesis rates of cyanogenic glycosides were affected by nitrogen reductase activity (NRA). The concentration of hydrocyanic acid in sorghum plants was associated with increasing of nitrate-N accumulation.
The mechanism of the noncatalyzed and reagent-catalyzed Bazarov synthesis of urea has extensively been investigated in the gas phase by means of density functional (B3LYP/6-31G(d,p)) and high quality ab initio (CBS-QB3) computational techniques. It was found that the first step of urea formation from NH3(g) and CO2(g) corresponds to a simple addition reaction leading to the carbamic acid intermediate, a process being slightly endothermic. Among the three possible reaction mechanisms considered, the addition-elimination-addition (AEA) and the double addition-elimination (DAE) mechanisms are almost equally favored, while the concerted (C) one was predicted kinetically forbidden. The second step involves the formation of loose adducts between NH3 and carbamic acid corresponding to an ammonium carbamate intermediate, which subsequently dehydrates to urea. The formation of "ammonium carbamate" corresponds to an almost thermoneutral process, whereas its dehydration, which is the rate-determining step, is highly endothermic. The Bazarov synthesis of urea is strongly assisted by the active participation of extra NH3 or H2O molecules (autocatalysis). For all reaction pathways studied the entire geometric and energetic profiles were computed and thoroughly analyzed. The reaction scheme described herein can be related with the formation of both isocyanic acid, H-N=C=O, and carbamic acid, H2N-COOH, as key intermediates in the initial formation of organic molecules, such as urea, under prebiotic conditions.
INTRODUCTION. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69 PATHWAYS OF OXIME METABOLISM • . . . . . . . ' " . ... . . . . ...... . . .. . . . . . . .... ..... 71 Conversion of Amino Acids to Aldoximes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 72 Conversion of Aldoximes to Nitrites, Cyanogenic Glycosides, and Hydrocyanic Acid 75 Conversion of Aldoximes to Glucosinolates and their Decomposition Products and Nitro Compounds. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77 Conversion of Aldoximes and Nitriles to Amides alld Non-Nitrogenous Compounds 79 R Group Modifications of Amino Acids Metabolized via the Oxime Pathway 81 Specificities in the Oxime Pathways.. . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 81
The effects of reactants and their amounts on the properties of the waterborne polyurethane emulsion were analyzed. The progress and application of waterborne polyurethane in packaging were summarized. When the original mol ratios of isocyanic acid group(NCO) to hydroxyl group (OH) were about 3.5, the total mol ratios of NCO to OH were between 1.2 and 1.8, the mol ratios of neutralization agent triethylamine (TEA) to dimethylol propionic acid(DMPA) were (0.73～0.78)∶ 1, the amounts of organotin catalyst were between 0.1% and 0.2%, the DMPA were between 3% and 8%, waterborne polyurethane emulsion has better properties.
Polyvinyl chloride resin crosslinked with trimerization thiocyanic acid was synthesized by using trimerization thiocyanic acid and polyvinyl chloride as the starting materials and dioctyl phthalate as the plasticizer in the presence of MgO.The adsorption capacities of the crosslinked resin for Cu2+,Zn2+,Mn2+,Ag+ and Pb2+ were evaluated.It was found that the crosslinked resin had the maximum adsorption capacity and highest selectivity for Cu2+,exhibiting maximum adsorption capacity of 1.056 mmol/g for Cu2+.However,it possessed lower or even zero adsorption capacity for other heavy metal ions.
The invention discloses a method for preparing NH3 from a urea solid by dry pyrolysis. The method comprises the following steps of: delivering the urea solid into a pyrolysis oven by using a quantitative feeding device, wherein the feeding amount is adjusted corresponding according to actually-measured NOx amount in smoke gas; inputting high-temperature gas delivered by a high-temperature fan into the pyrolysis oven by using a flowmeter, wherein the high-temperature gas is fully contacted with urea; the urea is heated and decomposed into isocyanic acid and ammonia gas; and the isocyanic acid undergoes a further reaction with water vapor in the high-temperature gas so as to generate the ammonia gas and carbon dioxide; and replenishing heat supply when needed by using an electric heater in the pyrolysis oven, wherein pyrolysis gas is taken as a reducing agent used for removing NOx by selective catalyctic reduction and introduced into an ammonia spray grid after being exhausted from the pyrolysis oven. The method has the advantages of elimination of urea dissolving and solution storing steps, no water consumption, low energy consumption in a pyrolytic process, energy supply from a photovoltaic system, simple system technology, small floor area and low running cost.
The electronic structure of isothiocyanic acid, HNCS, was determined by an ab initio LCAO‐MO‐SCF calculation. Isocyanic acid, HNCO, was also calculated and the two molecules are compared. The basis set consisted of uncontracted, atom‐optimized Gaussian functions, with nine s plus five p exponents to describe the sulfur and five s plus two p apiece for the carbon, nitrogen, and oxygen. The hydrogen was represented by three s‐type functions. An additional calculation of HNCS was carried out by adding a d set to the description of the sulfur. The molecular orbitals of HNCS are analyzed using simple perturbation theory applied to the localized valence‐bond functions and the SCF orbitals are displayed using planar electron‐density plots. The electronic structure of HNCS is compared with that of HNCO and it is concluded that (1) the π system in HNCS involves a nitrogen lone pair stabilized by a higher‐lying C–S π bond while the π system of HNCO consists of a C–O π bond stabilized by the higher‐energy nitrogen l...
In the above paper for the first time a systematic study of the amount of hydrocyanic acid in grains and cereal products is reported. Among 24 analysed wheat, rye, maize and oats types, the presence of hydrocyanic acid could be identified in 19 cases in their Karyopses. Similar is the result with 28 among 31 analysed cereal products. The content of hydrocyanic acid lies between 0.1 and 45 microgram/100 gr dried mass.
Foods are mixed with saliva in the oral cavity and swallowed. While staying in the stomach, saliva is contentiously provided to mix with the ingested foods. Because a salivary component of nitrite is protonated to produce active nitrous acid at acidic pH, the redox reactions of nitrous acid with phenolic compounds in foods become possible in the stomach. In the reactions, nitrous acid is reduced to nitric oxide (•NO), producing various products from phenolic compounds. In the products, stable hydroxybezoyl benzofuranone derivatives, which are produced from quercetin and its 7-O-glucoside, are included. Caffeic acid, chlorogenic acid, and rutin are oxidized to quinones and the quinones can react with thiocyanic acid derived from saliva, producing stable oxathiolone derivatives. 6,8-Dinitrosocatechis are produced from catechins by the redox reaction, and the dinitrocatechins are oxidized further by nitrous acid producing the quinones, which can make charge transfer complexes with the dinitrosocatechin and can react with thiocyanic acid producing the stable thiocyanate conjugates. In this way, various products can be produced by the reactions of salivary nitrite with dietary phenolic compounds, and reactive and toxic quinones formed by the reactions are postulated to be removed in the stomach by thiocyanic acid derived from saliva.
Sorghum and Pennisetum are two of the gifted genera of the tropical regions that provide food, feed, stover (dry straw) and fuel to millions of poor farmer families and their livestocks. Single-cut sorghum and multi-cut pearl millet varieties are also cultivated for green fodder (forage). In addition, the interspecific sorghum sudangrass annual multi-cut hybrids are grown for green fodder. The interspecific pearl millet × napiergrass hybrids are perennial and yield green fodder throughout the year. ::: Pearl millet uses less water per unit of forage production, tolerates both lower and higher soil pH and higher aluminium concentration, and is rich in minerals as ::: compared to sorghum. However, sorghum has a wider range of adaptability and is more widely grown. Geographical preferences, limited market demand, variable ::: prices, and lack of private industry and institutional research support have led to limited pearl millet forage research and cultivar adoption. ::: Forage quality is paramount to palatability or acceptability and animal intake. Plant morphology, anatomical components, digestibility, protein, ::: mineral, cellulose and lignin contents, and anti-nutritional factors like hydrocyanic acid in sorghum and oxalic acid in pearl millet determine animal ::: performance – milk and meat production. ::: Development of multi-cut annual forage sorghum and pearl millet hybrids rather than varieties could have a catalytic effect on forage yield and quality. ::: Diversification of sorghum seed parents (white-grained rather than the currently used red-grained male steriles) and development of sudangrass pollinators with ::: high sugar content and foliar disease resistance offer good opportunities for the exploitation of full potential of the interspecific hybrids. Crop scientists, chemical ::: technologists, and animal health and nutrition experts have a role to play in good quality forage research and cultivar development. Inter-institutional partnerships ::: could forge strong interlinks for strengthening sorghum and pearl millet forage research and development.
Studies were carried out to investigate the effects of 10%, 15% coconut milk and 50mg/L, 100mg/L Benzyl amino purine on the vegetative growth, nutritional and photochemical constituents of Amaranthus hybridus Linnaeus seedlings. Plants sprayed with water were the controls. All the treatments resulted in significantly increased leaf number, stem girth, plant height, shoot/root ratio, leaf area ratio and chlorophyll content of the vegetable with highest values recorded in treatments with 15% coconut milk at 14 weeks after planting. Treatments with 15% coconut milk also resulted in greater mineral elements contents at 14 weeks after planting of the vegetable. Alkaloids (3.55), saponins (1.66), phenols (0.36) and flavonoids levels (0.85) were higher in 15% coconut milk treated plants, whereas phytic acid (1.26) and hydrocyanic acids levels (15.30) were greater in 100mg/L Benzyl amino purine and 10% coconut milk respectively at 14 weeks after planting. The study shows that 15% coconut milk persistently had the greater potentials to increase vegetative growth, nutritional and phytochemical constituents of Amaranthus hybridus leading to its significance in nutrients requirements of man and usefulness in medicinal industries.
Three cultivars (red, black and white) of lima bean were studied to determine the best medium in which to cook them in order to reduce their hydrocyanic acid content to tolerable levels. The study also investigated the effects of processing media on the trytophan content of lima beans. Samples of each cultivar were parboiled in each of three media, 0.94 M HCl, 0.47 M H2SO4 and distilled water, for various times. Portions of each cultivar were also parboiled in the three media after enzyme incubation. Boiled samples were dried, pulverised and analysed for cyanide and tryptophan contents. There were 96.82, 99.78 and 99.62% reductions in cyanide content of the red cultivar after boiling in water, dilute HCl and dilute H2SO4 respectively for 30 min. The corresponding values for the white cultivar were 96.39, 99.59 and 94.77% respectively. Dehydrocyanation was more effective in enzyme-incubated samples when they were parboiled in dilute mineral acids. The residual cyanide content in enzyme-incubated samples was below tolerable limits after 30 min of treatment. However, the longer the parboiling time, the higher was the trytophan loss. Therefore parboiling for 30 min in dilute HCl will produce the desired result of insignificant residual cyanide content and minimal tryptophan loss in all samples. Copyright © 2004 Society of Chemical Industry
Replant diseases are common in many regions of the world, occurring when stone fruit are planted on soils that have been previously cultivated with similar species (Bent et al., 2009) . The causes of replant diseases are still unknown, although many factors appear to be involved. The action of fungi, nematodes, and bacteria can be direct (parasitism) or indirect, possibly due to the hydrolysis of prunasin, through the decomposition Pesq. agropec. bras., Brasília, v.51, n.4, p.364-371, abr. 2016 DOI: 10.1590/S0100-204X2016000400009 of root tissue from previous crops, which generates hydrocyanic acid, a phytotoxic compound associated with replant diseases (Gur & Cohen, 1989; Benizri et al., 2005) . In plants, the most characteristic effects of replant diseases are the reduction of vigor and yield, besides the orchard's low longevity (Rutto & Mizutani, 2006; Bent et al., 2009 ). Soil fumigation with chemical compounds has been used as a control technique, resulting in an increase in plant growth and yield, but it still presents low efficiency levels, high implementation costs, and a risk to human health and to the environment (Leinfelder & Merwin, 2006) .
Abstract: Foods are mixed with saliva in the oral cavity and swallowed. While staying in the stomach, saliva is contentiously provided to mix with the ingested foods. Because a salivary component of nitrite is protonated to produce active nitrous acid at acidic pH, the redox reactions of nitrous acid with phenolic compounds in foods become possible in the stomach. In the reactions, nitrous acid is reduced to nitric oxide (•NO), producing various products from phenolic compounds. In the products, stable hydroxybezoyl benzofuranone derivatives, which are produced from quercetin and its 7-O-glucoside, are included. Caffeic acid, chlorogenic acid, and rutin are oxidized to quinones and the quinones can react with thiocyanic acid derived from saliva, producing stable oxathiolone derivatives. 6,8-Dinitrosocatechis are produced from catechins by the redox reaction, and the dinitrocatechins are oxidized further by nitrous acid producing the quinones, which can make charge transfer complexes with the dinitrosocatechin and can react with thiocyanic acid producing the stable thiocyanate conjugates. In this way, various products can be produced by the reactions of salivary nitrite with dietary phenolic compounds, and reactive and toxic quinones formed by the reactions are postulated to be removed in the stomach by thiocyanic acid derived from saliva.
I find, by various experiments on common non-tumbling pigeons, that a mixture of hydrocyanic acid and strychnine will produce tctanic convulsions, in which the bird tumbles over and over exactly as described as the performance of " ground rollers." Both after strychnine and prussic acid the same effect is produced, but not to such a great extent as when the two poisons are employed in combination. And, curiously, some pigeons appear almost proof against strychnine, taking grains without any apparent injury. Otiier poisons, as opium, stramonium, arsenic, bichloride of mercury, do not produce similar convulsions ; but a concentrated decoction of tobacco will do so, also a needle run through the base of a non-tumbling pigeon's brain will generally produce similar spasms. Hut the most striking confirmation of the idea that tumbling depends on some peculiarity of the brain or nervous system, is in the fact that a non-tumbling pigeon was found to throw somersets after an injury of the kind, and has continued to throw somersets now for some ,months, notwithstanding apparent entire recovery from the irritation caused by the needle. It 
Examined the urea decomposition in selective catalytic reduction(SCR)system,influences of exhaust temperature,exhaust mass flow,urea solution injection rate and position on urea decomposition products and rate were investigated on an engine test bench by watching actual urea injection process through a transparent exhaust pipe.Experiments results show that the fluid film formed from the urea solution injected on the exhaust pipe wall has significant influence on urea decomposition and deposition formation.The injected urea cannot decomposes completely.In most conditions its decomposition rate is less than 50%.The decomposition rate rises obviously with exhaust temperature increasing.The urea decomposition is also affected by exhaust mass flow and urea injector position,and the affection of urea injection rate is negligible.Urea thermolysis products are ammonia and isocyanic acid,the former is more.It is seen that the side reaction plays an important role in urea decomposition process,thus affecting the ammonia generation path and leading to deposition formation.
Emission spectra of the fragments of Isothiocyanic acid (HNCS) produced by electron impact were studied. The onset for formation of NH(A3Π) is 9.2±0.5 eV. On the basis of the excitation function of the NH(A–X) band, NH(A) is shown to be formed via a spinforbidden process HNCS→NH(A3Π)+CS(X3Σ+) near the onset. At higher energies, a spin-allowed process HNCS→NH(A)+CS(a3Π) seems to be predominant. The ratio of the formation rate of NH(c) to that of NH(A) is 0.18±0.03.
The direct condensation of cyanic acid derivatives with N-vinyl/aryl amides affords the corresponding C4-heteroatom substituted pyrimidines. The use of cyanic bromide and thiocyanatomethane in this chemistry provides versatile azaheterocycles poised for further derivatization. The synthesis of a variety of previously inaccessible C2- and C4-pyrimidine derivatives using this methodology is described.
This research was designed as an innovation in the use of ugba as a food condiment. Production of “ugba” cubes from fermented seeds of Pentaclethramacrophylla (“ugba”) was successfully carried out. Ugba seeds were dehulled after soaking overnight in warm water and shredded. Fermentation of the shredded “ugba” seeds was done using Bacillus subtilis pure culturedisolated from already fermented “ugba”. Initial microbial study of the unfermented “ugba” showed the presence of Bacillus, Enterobacter, Penicillium, Aspergillus and yeast species. The initial bacterial count of the unfermented seed was 1.4 x 105cfu/g. Microbial counts of the “ugba” seeds after three days fermentation showed a disappearance of other microbial species except Bacillus species which was up to 9.60 x 104cfu/g. The shredded and fermented ugbaseeds were later milled and formed into cubes in a mould and oven dried.Sodium benzoate was used as a preservative. There was a drastic reduction of microbial count from 9.60 x 104cfu/g to 4.80 x 104cfu/g in “ugba” cubes preserved with sodium benzoate. Proximate composition of the “ugba” cubes showed increased levels of carbohydrates, ash and fibre content and a reduction in moisture protein and fats. Toxicological analysis of Bacillus fermented ugba presented low levels of hydrocyanic acid and soluble oxalates when compared with the unfermented sample. An overall acceptability of the ugba cubes was rated very highly when sensory evaluation was tested. This study recommends the use of Bacillus subtilis fermented nutritionally rich ugba cubes as a new innovation that will promote its acceptability worldwide. Keywords : Ugba, fermentation, Bacillus subtilis, sodium benzoate
Abstract does not appear. First page follows. ::: Introduction ::: In most of the previous efforts to determine gas concentration, rate of diffusion, ::: leakage, etc., in fumigation with hydrocyanic acid the results have been expressed ::: in terms of insect kill. This method is not entirely adequate inasmuch as it fails ::: to provide any data as to the actual concentration of gas present under the tent at ::: any given time during the exposure, the rate of leakage through the tent, or the effect ::: of temperature. ::: In an effort to gain a more complete understanding of what actually occurs during ::: fumigation the writer has attacked the problem from both the chemical and the entomological ::: standpoint, with the following aims: (1) To ascertain the actual gas concentration ::: necessary to kill coccinellid beetles (Hippodamia convergens Guer.) and red scale (Chrysomphalus aurantii Mask.); (2) to establish a standard of measurement by which the relative efficiency ::: of different methods of fumigation might be determined; and (3) to apply the results ::: thus obtained to the study of certain factors affecting killing efficiency under the ::: conditions of orchard fumigation.
FIELD: environmental protection. SUBSTANCE: invention relates to waste and recycled water containing thiocyanates (SCN - ), and can be used at non-ferrous metallurgy, chemical and mining enterprises. Thiocyanate-containing waste water is treated with persulphate in presence of iron(III) ions in molar ratio [S 2 O 8 2- ]:[Fe +3 ], equal to 1:0.2. During oxidative decomposition of thiocyanates, hydrocyanic acid is formed, which is subjected to stripping with subsequent absorption in an alkaline solution. EFFECT: invention provides high degree of purification of waste water in a wide range of concentrations thiocyanates without any supply of medium pH regulators into reaction zone, improves sanitary conditions due to low-toxic, easy-to-use and transportation of reagent; also, disclosed method reduces operating costs and reduces cost of cleaning due to recovery of expensive cyanide for reuse in technological process. 1 cl, 3 ex
The catalytic hydrolysis of urea was investigated under conditions relevant for the selective catalytic reduction of NOx (urea-SCR). The hydrolysis activities of the tested catalysts coated on cordierite monoliths were in the order ZrO2 > TiO2 > Al2O3 > H-ZSM-5 > SiO2. A comparison with isocyanic acid (HNCO) hydrolysis on the same catalysts showed that urea decomposition was much slower than HNCO hydrolysis; hence, catalytic urea thermolysis into NH3 and HNCO is likely to be the rate-determining step in urea decomposition. Interestingly, a different order of catalyst activities was found in water-free experiments on urea thermolysis: TiO2 > H-ZSM-5 ≈ Al2O3 > ZrO2 > SiO2. The widely accepted reaction pathway for urea decomposition, namely urea thermolysis followed by HNCO hydrolysis, seems to be valid on all the tested catalysts except ZrO2: The high urea hydrolysis activity of the ZrO2 catalyst compared to its low urea thermolysis activity suggested a different reaction pathway, in which water directly attacks adsorbed urea rather than adsorbed HNCO.
SummaryLotus comiculatus L. is a widely cultivated, outbreeding, leguminous forage crop. Seventy-one plants, most of which were tetraploid, were regenerated from calli derived from a single protoplast. Their morphological and agronomic traits were evaluated and compared with those of the seed-produced population. The variances of most of the traits in the protoplast-derived (protoclonal) population were smaller than those of the seed-produced population. Mean values of all the traits of the protoclonal population shifted significantly towards lower values. However, new phenotypic variants with higher values than those of the plant initially used for protoplast isolation were also observed. Plants with less hydrocyanic acid (which has a toxic effect on cattle) than the initial plant were obtained in the protoclones. Generally, the pollen fertility of protoclones was significantly low compared with the seed-produced plants. This seems to be partly due to the occurrence of abnormalities in chromosome structure during protoplast and/or callus culture, as suggested by the formation of univalents, lagging, and fragment chromosomes and bridges at metaphase I and anaphase I and II of the regenerants. The changes in chromosome structure, however, did not induce any malformed morphologies.
Simultaneous TG-MS (TG: thermogravimetry, MS: mass spectrometry) measurement, a mass spectrometer connected with a thermogravimetry by a transfer line and an interface or by the skimmer coupling, was used to investigate decomposition of urea.A simple decomposition reaction of urea to form ammonia and cyanic acid (or isocyanic acid) was determined. The low intensity ratio of m/z 43 to m/z 17 was attributed to that the cyanic acid react with water to form carbon dioxide.Polymerization and decomposition of the polymers were more predominant later than the simple decomposition after the first stage.
Pure amino acid thiohydantoins are required as reference standards for development of C-terminal-sequencing procedures based on thiohydantoin formation of the C-terminal amino acids of peptides and proteins. Proline thiohydantoin was prepared using a straightforward method involving reaction of acetylproline with ammonium thiocyanate. It was characterized by UV spectrophotometry, mass spectrometry and back-hydrolysis to the free amino acid. These data establish unequivocally that the thiocyanate procedure is applicable to proline as well as to the other common amino acids. This work also validates earlier claims that proline thiohydantoin can be prepared by reaction with thiocyanic acid.
The crystal structure of [Ph4P][NCS]·HNCS is reported. This is the first structural determination of isothiocyanic acid and hydrogen bonding between the NCS anion and HNCS fragment explored using computational chemistry.
Abstract : Results of a partial study of the crystal structure of HCOOH ar e reported and compared with similar work of Holtzberg, Post, and Fankuchen (J. Chem. Phys. 20:198, 1952). The axial lengths (a = 10.3, b= 3.64, and c = 5.4 A) were larger than those obtained by Holtzberg. The later had more refined values and prepared the rotation and oscillation photographs at -45 deg instead of -15 deg C. Single crystal rotation and 15 deg-oscillation photographs were obtained of isocyanic acid crystals at -130 deg + or - 5 deg C. The l = 0 and 1 layers of the reciprocal lattice, which were reconstructed from oscillation photographs, indicated that the crystal is orthorhombic. The unit cell dimensions are a = 10. 72 + or - 0.06, b= 5.15 + or - 0.03, and c= 3.56 + or - 0.03 A. Four molecules per unit cell are indicated.
The invention discloses a new preparation method of 1-isothiocyanic acid-4-methanesulfonyl-(2-ene) butane, and particularly relates to a method for the extraction of sulforaphane from radish seeds or broccoli seeds or rape seeds. According to the method, air-dried radish seeds or broccoli seeds or rape seeds are used as a raw material for preparation of a radish seed crushing liquid, an enzyme deactivated broccoli seed or radish seed dispersion liquid, a degreased fine grinding liquid, a fermentation liquid, a protein removal fermentation liquid, a concentrated liquid, dry polysaccharide powder and high purity sulforaphane freeze-dried powder for preparation of 1-isothiocyanic acid-4-methanesulfonyl-(2-ene) butane with the purity of more than 98%. The production rate of the sulforaphane prepared by the method is high, the operation is simple, and the product has the characteristics of being high in product purity of more than 98%, green, non-pollution and the like. The product prepared by the method can be widely used in medicine and health care industry, and has cancer preventing and resistant function.
Association constants for hydrogen-bonded complexes of iso-thiocyanic acid with a series of straight-chain, branched-chain and cyclic ethers in dilute carbon tetrachloride solution at 4, 25 and 40°C are reported. The data are based on measurement of the intensity of the unbonded N—H stretching vibration of HNCS, in a specially designed variable-temperature cell. The associated enthalpy and entropy changes are calculated; the former agree well with values determined calorimetrically for three cases studied by both methods. The thermodynamic data are discussed in relation to inductive effects, the frequency shifts of the fundamental vibrations of HNCS on bonding, ring size and possible steric effects. Ring opening reactions leading to the formation of hydroxythiocyanates are reported for the 3- and 4-membered cyclic ether systems.
Seeds of three varieties of grain sorghum with a graded moisture range of 9%, 11%, 13% and 15%, and of one variety of Sudan grass with a graded moisture range of 8%, 10%, 12% and 14% were fumigated with methyl bromide and hydrocyanic acid in 100-cubie-foot gas-tight chambers. Exposure periods, dosages of fumigant applied, and temperatures during fumigation were varied. One-half of the fumigated samples of seeds received one fumigation; the others were fumigated twice. ::: ::: Under the conditions of these studies, germination of grain sorghum and Sudan grass was not seriously impaired by hydrocyanic acid when seeds were thoroughly aerated before planting. Injury resulting from methyl bromide fumigations could be identified as retarded emergence and growth of roots and shoots in various degrees, ranging up to complete absence of germination in some seeds. ::: ::: Dosages of fumigant applied, temperatures during fumigation, period of exposure, and moisture content of seeds were variables found to be most important in contributing to injury of seeds by methyl bromide. Two fumigations resulted in lower percentages of germination than one fumigation. ::: ::: Differences in the response to methyl bromide among the three varieties of grain sorghums were attributed to quality of seeds used rather than to varietal differences in susceptibility to the fumigant. Sudan grass seeds were considerably less susceptible to injury during fumigation than seeds of the grain sorghums.
BACKGROUND ::: Carbamylation is a non-enzymatic post-translational modification of proteins characterized by the addition of isocyanic acid to amino groups. As isocyanic acid mainly originates from the spontaneous dissociation of urea, carbamylation rate is increased during renal failure. The aim of the study was to evaluate serum homocitrulline (HCit), which results from the carbamylation of ε-amino groups of lysine (Lys) residues, in acute renal failure (ARF) and to determine if it could be useful for differentiating acute from chronic renal failure (CRF). ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: In total, 213 patients with renal failure referred to the nephrology department of the university hospital of Reims were included. Patients were classified into three groups: patients with ARF (ARF group, n=39), patients with CRF complicated with ARF (A/CRF group, n=29) and patients with CRF (CRF group, n=145). Serum HCit concentrations were measured by LC-MS/MS. Concentration kinetics of HCit and urea were studied in patients suffering from ARF. The HCit thresholds distinguishing ARF and CRF were investigated. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: HCit concentrations increased in ARF patients reaching a peak delayed compared to urea concentration peak. HCit concentrations were positively correlated with urea concentrations (r=0.51) and with the time elapsed since the estimated onset of ARF (r=0.57). Serum HCit concentrations were higher (p<0.05) in CRF group compared to ARF group. The receiver operating characteristic curve analysis showed that HCit concentrations <289 μmol/mol Lys were predictive of ARF (Sensitivity: 83%, Specificity: 72%, AUC: 0.856). ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: Our results demonstrate that HCit is a promising biomarker for distinguishing between ARF and CRF patients.
Background: Moringa peregrina (Forssk.) Fiori. is a small tree, which grows in south east of Iran. The shoot and root of M. peregrina contain volatile oil which has several isothiocyanates. Objective: To study the effect of salinity on volatile constituents of root and shoot of M. peregrina. Methods: The experiment was conducted on randomized complete blocks design (RCBD) with 8 treatments and 3 replications. The treatments were consist of control, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12 and 14 dS/m. The volatile constituents were determined by GC and GC/MS. Results: The results showed that the main constituent of volatile oil in control treatment was 1,2–benzendicarboxylic acid, bis (2-methyl propyl) (29.02%) which decreased with increasing salinity. In salinity treatments, the isothiocyanates compounds such as isobutylisothiocyanate and 2-isothiocyanatepropan were increased. In control level of salinity, the main compound of root volatile oil was thiocyanic acid phenylmethyl ester (29.6%) but was not found in the salinity treatment. The content of isothiocyanates in the shoot increased with increasing salinity up to 4dS/m. Conclusion: The level of salinity had significant effect on volatile oil content and component of M. peregrina.
On 16 February 1845 the Reverend W. H. Browne, rector of St John's Church in Launceston, Van Diemen's Land, wrote in his journal, "My dear Wife died very suddenly almost immediately after and in consequence of taking a preparation of Hyd. Cyan. Acid prepared & supplied by Dr Pugh". This journal entry raises a number of questions. Was Dr Pugh treating a condition which he thought merited that treatment or was it a ghastly mistake? Was Caroline Browne suffering from pulmonary tuberculosis? Was hydrocyanic acid an accepted treatment at that time? Did Mrs Browne take the wrong dose? Was an incorrect concentration of the drug prepared by Dr Pugh? Did he use the wrong pharmacopoeia in preparing the hydrocyanic acid? Why was there no inquest? Only some of these questions can be answered.
Routine procedures of colorimetric determinations in the form of the oxyquinolinate in CCl/sub 4/ are described. The determination of Ge is carried out with phenylfluoron, that of De is made with quinalizarine; Nb is determined in the form of the Nb/sup 5+/ complex compound with thiocyanic acid; TA is determined with pyrogallol in an acid oxalate solution. Minor changes, introduced into the generally accepted methods, relate to the conditions of the decomposition of the test samples and the separation of elements being determined.
The crystal structure of [Ph4P][NCS].HNCS is reported. This is the first structural determination of isothiocyanic acid and hydrogen bonding between the NCS anion and HNCS fragment explored using computational chemistry.
The most common way to control exposure for isocyanates is to perform air sampling with subsequent determination of the isocyanates at the laboratory. As isocyanates are very reactive compounds they need to be derivatised during the sampling step. One way to sample isocyanates is to use filters impregnated with 1-(2-methoxyphenyl) piperazine (2MP) as first shown by Warwick et al. (1981) . This method has been further developed in several steps (Health and Safety Laboratory 1999, Östin et al., 2002) . Henriks-Eckerman et al. (2000) introduced a method for sampling methylisocyanate and isocyanic acid using two filters impregnated with 2MP (FINMP-method) . In earlier studies the formed 2MP-isocyanate derivative has been shown to have limited stability (NIOSH 1994) and the long-term performance has been insufficiently described. In an evaluation of the long-term field performance of the 2MP-method Sennbro et al. (2004a) showed that significant lower levels of TDI were found for long-term samplings compared to parallel consecutive short time samplings. Sennbro et al. introduced a correction factor for long-term sampling of TDI with the 2MP-method: The aim of this study was to evaluate the long-term sampling performance of TDI using both the 2MP-method and the FINMP-method in an exposure chamber. were each impregnated with 20.8 µmol 2MP.
Cyanide is a very potent, rapidly acting, extremely lethal and deadly substance which has been used as a poison for thousands of years. Cyanide poisoning is almost always fatal because of its low fatal dose and the rapidity with which it acts. Cyanide is toxic to all living beings except bacteria. It has been used as a chemical warfare agent and for many military purposes, mainly in the form of volatile liquids like hydrocyanic acid (HCN). It is notoriously used in executions, homicides, and suicides. In civilian life, poisoning with cyanide and its compounds can occur from its use in chemical syntheses, electroplating, plastics processing, tanning, metallurgy, and as a fumigant [1] . Magnesium cyanide and cyanogen chloride are used as insecticides. It is also used as a part of a gold polishing chemical which is available in powdered form. Combustion of synthetic products that contain carbon and nitrogen (such as plastics, synthetic fibres) and cigarette smoke release gaseous HCN. In food products, like bitter almonds, apricot pits, lima beans and cassava beans, cyanide is present in the form of cyanogenic glycosides [1] . The release of HCN and cyanogenic compounds from combustion of such products is the most common source of human exposure to cyanide [1] [2] [3] . The pure hydrocyanic acid is a colourless, transparent, volatile liquid with an odour resembling that of bitter almonds. It decomposes rapidly on exposure to light. About 20 -40% of the population cannot smell the gas, and the ability to detect it is a sexlinked recessive trait.
The fixation of N 2 directly into value added chemicals is an exciting, yet challenging problem. Recently, we reported the transfer of an N 2 -derived terminal nitrido ligand, NuMo-(N[ t Bu]Ar) 3 (1, Ar = 3,5-Me 2 C 6 H 3 ), into organic nitriles with concomitant regeneration of the starting material, Mo(N[ t Bu]Ar) 3 (2). 1 In a related approach, the terminal nitride ligand in 1 was converted to cyanide, where the carbon atom source was the methylene carbon of methoxymethyl chloride. 2 While both of these studies demonstrated the functionalization of N 2 derived N, neither represents a particularly atom-efficient set of transformations. A more appealing transformation is depicted in Fig. 1 : the reduction of an N 2 -derived metal nitride ( Fig. 1, Step 1, a six electron process) by carbon monoxide, which acts as a two electron reductant, to produce an isocyanate linkage ( Fig. 1, Step 2) that, in turn, can be reduced off the metal center with input of one electron ( Fig. 1, Step 3) to give the overall reaction presented in eqn (1) . Ideally, this transformation can be driven either electrochemically or chemically as illustrated in eqn (1) or (2) . Here it can be seen that the formation of the salt is much more enthalpically favorable than the formation of isocyanic acid, however the formation of the isocyanic acid is thermodynamically spontaneous in the gas phase at 298. 15 
Abstract A simple procedure for the determination of low levels of total cyanide in effluent samples has been developed. After distillation of the cyanide from the sample, as hydrocyanic acid, the cyanide is determined with coulometrically generated iodine using a biamperometric end point detection system. As little as 0.06mg/l total cyanide can be measured using the procedure. The method obviates the need for calibration curves and does not require special reagents. Silver (I) was determined to be an effective catalyst for the decomposition of bound cyanides in the distillation procedure.
The utilization of heterosis in F1 hybrids is generally ::: the ultimate aim in forage breeding since such hybrids ::: usually are more productive than cross-pollinated, selfpollinated, ::: or synthetic varieties. ::: In breeding .sudangrass, Sorghumv ulgate var. sudanense ::: Hitchc., attention has been directed toward reducing the ::: hydrocyanic acid content, increasing sweetness, and improving ::: yield, disease resistance, leafiness, and other agronomic ::: characteristics. ::: Several workers (1, 4, 8) have presented evidence for ::: increasing forage production by utilizing hybrid vigor in ::: sudangrass. Recently, Burton (2) suggested the use of 1 ::: hybrids in sudangrass; however, this has not been feasible ::: due to the lack of a good source of male-sterility in this ::: species. ::: The research described here investigated the possibilities ::: of developing a hybrid sudangrass. Procedures for obtaining ::: and increasing a cytoplasmic male-sterile sudangrass, ::: the requirements for maintaining .sterility, and the utilization ::: of the sterile in the production of F1 hybrid sudangrass ::: seed are described. The performance of an F~ hybrid also
The aims of this experiment were to study the chemical composition, fatty acid profiles, toxic compound of rubber seed kernel (RSK) and the effect of different levels of RSK in total mixed ration (TMR) on digestibility using in vitro gas production technique. Rubber seeds were shelled and sun dried for 12 days and were then used for chemical composition, fatty acid profiles and in vitro study. For the in vitro study, RSK was used in TMR at 0, 6.81, 13.63, 20.44 and 27.25%. Moisture, ash, crude protein (CP), ether extract (EE), neutral detergent fiber (NDF) and acid detergent fiber (ADF) of RSK were 2.43, 2.84, 19.82, 47.67, 20.87 and 17.07% dry matter (DM), respectively. Linoleic, oleic and linolenic acid were the most unsaturated fatty acid (37.82, 25.12 and 17.64%, respectively). Hydrocyanic acid (HCN) and aflatoxin content in RSK were 80.26 mg/kg and 316.75 g/kg, respectively. Cumulative gas production (GP), potential GP (a+b), GP from the insoluble fraction (b) and fraction rates of GP (c) were different (p 13.63%) resulted in lower cumulative GP, a+b and b than dietary treatments at 0, 6.81 and 13.63% RSK. In vitro dry matter digestibility (IVDMD) at 48 h and in vitro organic matter digestibility (IVOMD) at 24 and 48 h were decreased (p<0.01) when RSK levels were increased in TMR. Similarly, the estimated metabolized energy (ME) also decreased as RSK levels were increased. This study indicated that RSK could be used up to 13.63% in TMR for dairy cattle.
Citrullination is a post-translational modification of proteins which deiminates arginine, increasing the mass by 0.98 Da. Protein citrullination is a known biomarker for multiple sclerosis and a potential biomarker for rheumatoid arthritis. Collision-induced dissociation (CID) tandem mass spectrometry of citrullinated peptides produces a dominant neutral loss of isocyanic acid (HNCO, −43 Da) from the deiminated arginine amino acid side-chain. Here we show that the loss of isocyanic acid in CID can be used as a trigger for targeted analysis by supplemental activation electron transfer dissociation (saETD). Unlike CID, post-translational modifications (PTMs) are retained on peptide backbone fragments produced by saETD, improving the confidence in assignment of both peptide sequence and PTM site. The method is demonstrated for four synthetic peptides spiked into complex trypsin-digested saliva samples and a commercial six protein tryptic mixture. In contrast to CID alone, the neutral-loss triggered ETD approach results in high confidence identification of three of the four peptides, including an unexpected disulfide-bound dimer, and zero false positives.
The effect of two forms of Prussian blue, soluble K3 Fe[Fe(CN)6] and insoluble Fe4[Fe(CN)& and of ammonium iron hexacyanoferrate QI) (NH4Fe[Fe(CN)6] on intestinal radiocesium absorption was investigated in rats, pigs, and humans. In rats 5 mg of antidote administered 2 min before lMCs tracer reduced radiocesium absorption to 2.4 - 6.3% of the oral dose. In pigs fed with Chernobyl-contaminated whey under normal feeding conditions for a 27 day period, radiocesium activity concentration was reduced from 360 Bq/kg in control animals to 10 - 30 Bq/kg by 5 g antidote/d. In man 1 g of oral Prussian blue diminished the cesium absorption from a ''Cs-labelled test meal to 5.6 6.4% of the controls. The inhibitory effects of colloidally soluble K3 Fe[Fe(CN)d and of (NH4Fe[Fe(CN)6] were similar with slightly less inhibition by the insoluble Fe4[Fe(CN)6]3. (Key Words: cesium; radioisotopes; hydrocyanic acid; ferricyanides; poisoning; intestinal absorption; (TI,); antidote.)
Two common Nigerian cassava varieties were subjected to proximate analysis with a view to assessing the relative potential nutrient composition of the roots, stems, leaves and seeds. The results obtained shaved that the leaves, seeds and stems in that order are much richer than the roots in protein but higher in crude fibre. There was a relationship between the crude protein contents of the roots and stems and the hydrocyanic acid (HCN) content of the plant while that of the leaves and seeds did not appear to follow the same trend. HCN of the bitter cassava variety was considerably higher in the whole tuber, pulp and peel than in the sweet strain. Sundrying and ensiling resulted in appreciable losses of HCN. Grated root lost about half its HCN content within six hours while stored whole roots showed a rapid decline in HCN from the fifth day after harvest. Apparent digestibility coefficients (A.D>C.) of the major nutrients of cassava roots were not significantly (P<0.05) affected by the processes of boiling of sundrying.
Six actinomycetes, CAI-13, CAI-85, CAI-93, CAI-140, CAI-155 and KAI-180, isolated from six different herbal vermi-composts were characterized for in vitro plant growth-promoting (PGP) properties and further evaluated in the field for PGP activity in rice. Of the six actinomycetes, CAI-13, CAI-85, CAI-93, CAI-140 and CAI-155 produced siderophores; CAI-13, CAI-93, CAI-155 and KAI-180 produced chitinase; CAI-13, CAI-140, CAI-155 and KAI-180 produced lipase; CAI-13, CAI-93, CAI-155 and KAI-180 produced protease; and CAI-13, CAI-85, CAI-140 and CAI-155 produced ß-1-3-glucanase whereas all the six actinomycetes produced cellulase, hydrocyanic acid and indole acetic acid (IAA). The actinomycetes were able to grow in NaCl concentrations of up to 8%, at pH values between 7 and 11, temperatures between 20 and 40 °C and compatible with fungicide bavistin at field application levels. In the rice field, the actinomycetes significantly enhanced tiller numbers, panicle numbers, filled grain numbers and weight, stover yield, grain yield, total dry matter, root length, volume and dry weight over the un-inoculated control. In the rhizosphere, the actinomycetes also significantly enhanced total nitrogen, available phosphorous, % organic carbon, microbial biomass carbon and nitrogen and dehydrogenase activity over the un-inoculated control. Sequences of 16S rDNA gene of the actinomycetes matched with different Streptomyces species in BLAST analysis. Of the six actinomycetes, CAI-85 and CAI-93 were found superior over other actinomycetes in terms of PGP properties, root development and crop productivity. qRT-PCR analysis on selected plant growth promoting genes of actinomycetes revealed the up-regulation of IAA genes only in CAI-85 and CAI-93.
The thermal and the photochemical reactions of Co(CN)5H2O2- with azide, iodide, hydroazoic acid and hydrocyanic acid are investigated. Data on the photochemical aquation of Co(CN)3−6 as a function of the chemical properties of the medium are also reported. On the basis of these kinetic data a reaction mechanism is proposed which takes into account the important role of the solvent cage surrounding the reacting complex.
Allylboration of imines, nitriles (including hydrocyanic acid), amides, lactams, aromatic azaheterocycles (pyridines, isoquinoline, and pyrrole) was used to synthesize a series of mono- and bis-3-butenylamines with different structures, which were converted to dichloroacetamides, new analogs of a known safener (herbicide antidote) Dichlormid successfully used in the cultivation of corn throughout the world. Biological tests for the germination of corn seeds showed that most of the dichloroacetamides obtained have growth-stimulating activity, which is mainly directed on the development of the root system. Compounds 2f, trans- and cis-2n, cis-2s, and 2t demonstrated outstanding activity, exceeding from two to three times the stimulating effect of Dichlormid on the developing root system of maize seedlings.
Cycloaddition Elimination Reactions of 4-Aryl-5-arylimino-1,2,4-dithiazolidin-3-ones (Mustard Oil Oxides) ::: ::: ::: ::: 4-Aryl-5-arylimino-1,2,4-dithiazolidin-3-ones (1) react with isocyanates, isothiocyanates, and cyanic acid esters by exchange of the COS-part from 1 affording thiadiazole and dithiazole derivatives 4, 5, 6 or 12. The reaction products are able to give further exchange reactions. Ring opening of 2-substituted 4-aryl-5-arylimino-1,2,4-thiadiazolin-3-ones (4) and -3-thiones (6) yields thio- and dithiobiurets (7, 8) with aryl substituent in 3-position. Oxidation of dithiobiurets, generated from 6, affords dithiazolidines 9, which are Dimroth-isomers of 6.
Many references in the literature deal with the treatment of potatoes infested with the potato tuber moth, Phthorimaea operculella Zell. Fumigation is apparently one of the most successful methods employed, some of the fumigants which have been used being carbon bisulphide, methalyll chloride, acetylene gas, hydro-cyanic acid gas, naphthalene, para-dichlorobenzene and petrol. Of these chemicals, CS2 appears to be the most effective as well as the most popular.
The present invention discloses an isomerization of 2-methyl-liquid synthesis of adiponitrile using a method butenenitrile, comprising the following steps: 1) 2-Methyl-3-butenenitrile in the zero-valent nickel isomerization reaction occurs 3pentenenitrile catalyst, a phosphorus-containing ligand and a Lewis acid effect; 2) step 1) was obtained in the isomerization reaction mixture with hydrocyanic acid to produce adiponitrile product comprising . The present invention is 2-methyl-3-butenenitrile isomerization of 3-pentenenitrile to generate, analyze the composition of the isomerized liquid is at a zero-valent nickel catalyst, a phosphorus-containing ligand and a Lewis acid to effect its secondary hydrocyanation material ratio substantially equal, so the present invention is used directly isomerized liquid hydrocyanic acid synthesis and adiponitrile. Accordingly, the present invention is omitted isomerization step was isolated and purified 3-pentenenitrile, greatly reducing the equipment cost and the production cost, and also reduces the zero-valent nickel catalyst and poisoning phosphorus-containing ligands.
This paper suggests assessing the consequences of hydrocyanic acid (HCN) release into the air by aqueous cyanide solutions in abnormal situations such as the accidental introduction of an acid, or the insertion of a cyanide in a pickling bath. It provides a well-defined source model and its resolution by methods peculiar to mass transport phenomena. The procedure consists of four stages: calculation of the liquid phase concentration, estimate of the HCN liquid-vapour equilibrium, determination of the mass transfer coefficient at the liquid-vapour interface, evaluation of the air concentration of HCN and of the damage distances. The results show that small baths operating at high temperatures are the major sources of risk. The building up of lethal air concentrations, on the other hand, is governed by the values of the mass transfer coefficient, which is itself determined by the flow dynamics and bath geometry. Concerning the magnitude of the risk, the fallout for external emergency planning is slight in all the cases investigated.
The promiscuous activity of human carbonic anhydrase (hCAII) against a non-physiological cyanic acid substrate has been investigated by using a combined QM and QM/MM level of theory. Results show that the hCAII is able to hydrate the cyanic acid by a reaction mechanism similar to that of the CO2 native substrate. The energy barrier for the nucleophilic attack is found to be 15.6 and 4.3 kcal mol−1 at QM and QM/MM levels, respectively. This result underlines the importance of taking into account the surrounding residues around the active site in the presence of the substrate having small molecular sizes. The carbamate is strongly stabilized with respect to the bicarbonate of the native substrate indicating a more difficult release of the reaction product.
Jorgen Hildebrandt ::: ::: As a young physician, Hans Rosling started working in internal medicine at a small Swedish hospital, but soon he and his wife, Agneta, decided to move with their two young children to Mozambique for a period of two years. There they both worked for the ministry of health in Nacala in the northern part of the country, Hans as one of only two doctors serving a population of 300 000 and Agneta working as a midwife. ::: ::: During those years, the district was hit by cholera, and also a strange epidemic of flaccid paralysis. The latter was found—thanks to Hans—to be caused by improperly prepared cassava. In times of drought, desperate local people ate cassava that had not been properly prepared to remove the cyanic acid it naturally contained. ::: ::: Cassava toxicity became an interest of Hans’s, and both his PhD thesis and those of more than a dozen students under his supervision explored various aspects of the disease which was eventually named “konzo.” ::: ::: Hans’s infatuation with maps, weather forecasts, and other graphic representation of data was used to gain an understanding of konzo and its context. With maps documenting …
Carbamylation, which corresponds to the binding of isocyanic acid to the amino groups of proteins, is a nonenzymatic post-translational modification responsible for alterations of protein structural and functional properties. Tissue accumulation of carbamylation-derived products and their role in pathological processes such as atherosclerosis or chronic renal failure have been previously documented. However, few studies have focused on the carbamylation of intracellular proteins and their subsequent role in cellular aging. This study aimed to determine the extent of intracellular protein carbamylation, its impact on cell functions and the ability of cells to degrade these modified proteins. Fibroblasts were incubated with cyanate or urea and the carbamylation level was evaluated by immunostaining and homocitrulline quantification. The results showed that carbamylated proteins accumulated intracellularly and that all proteins were susceptible. The presence of intracellular carbamylated proteins did not modify cell proliferation or type I collagen synthesis nor did it induce cell senescence, but it significantly decreased cell motility. Fibroblasts were able to degrade carbamylated proteins through the ubiquitin-proteasome system. In conclusion, intracellular proteins are susceptible to carbamylation but their accumulation does not seem to deeply affect cell function, owing largely to their elimination by the ubiquitin-proteasome system.
Citrullination is a post-translational modification of proteins which deiminates arginine, increasing the mass by 0.98 Da. Protein citrullination is a known biomarker for multiple sclerosis and a potential biomarker for rheumatoid arthritis. Collision-induced dissociation (CID) tandem mass spectrometry of citrullinated peptides produces a dominant neutral loss of isocyanic acid (HNCO, À43 Da) from the deiminated arginine amino acid side-chain. Here we show that the loss of isocyanic acid in CID can be used as a trigger for targeted analysis by supplemental activation electron transfer dissociation (saETD). Unlike CID, post-translational modifications (PTMs) are retained on peptide backbone fragments produced by saETD, improving the confidence in assignment of both peptide sequence and PTM site. The method is demonstrated for four synthetic peptides spiked into complex trypsin-digested saliva samples and a commercial six protein tryptic mixture. In contrast to CID alone, the neutral-loss triggered ETD approach results in high confidence identification of three of the four peptides, including an unexpected disulfide-bound dimer, and zero false positives.
Six actinomycetes, CAI-13, CAI-85, CAI-93, CAI-140, CAI-155 and KAI-180, isolated from six different herbal vermi-composts were characterized for in-vitro plant growth-promoting (PGP) properties and further evaluated in the field for PGP activity in rice. Of the six actinomycetes, CAI-13, CAI-85, CAI-93, CAI-140 and CAI-155 produced siderophores; CAI-13, CAI-93, CAI-155 and KAI-180 produced chitinase; CAI-13, CAI-140, CAI-155 and KAI-180 produced lipase; CAI-13, CAI-93, CAI-155 and KAI-180 produced protease; and CAI-13, CAI-85, CAI-140 and CAI-155 produced β-1-3-glucanase whereas all the six actinomycetes produced cellulase, hydrocyanic acid and indole acetic acid (IAA). The actinomycetes were able to grow in NaCl concentrations of up to 8%, at pH values between 7 and 11, temperatures between 20 and 40 o C and compatible with fungicide bavistin at field application levels. In the rice field, the actinomycetes significantly enhanced tiller numbers, panicle numbers, filled grain numbers and weight, stover yield, grain yield, total dry matter, root length, volume and dry weight over the un-inoculated control. In the rhizosphere, the actinomycetes also significantly enhanced total nitrogen, available phosphorous, % organic carbon, microbial biomass carbon and nitrogen and dehydrogenase activity over the un-inoculated control. Sequences of 16S rDNA gene of the actinomycetes matched with different Streptomyces species in BLAST analysis. Of the six actinomycetes, CAI-85 and CAI-93 were found superior over other actinomycetes in terms of PGP properties, root development and crop productivity. qRT-PCR analysis on selected plant growth promoting genes of actinomycetes revealed the up-regulation of IAA genes only in CAI-85 and CAI-93.
Carbamylation, which corresponds to the binding of isocyanic acid to the amino groups of proteins, is a nonenzymatic post-translational modification responsible for alterations of protein structural and functional properties. Tissue accumulation of carbamylation-derived products and their role in pathological processes such as atherosclerosis or chronic renal failure have been previously documented. However, few studies have focused on the carbamylation of intracellular proteins and their subsequent role in cellular aging. This study aimed to determine the extent of intracellular protein carbamylation, its impact on cell functions and the ability of cells to degrade these modified proteins. Fibroblasts were incubated with cyanate or urea and the carbamylation level was evaluated by immunostaining and homocitrulline quantification. The results showed that carbamylated proteins accumulated intracellularly and that all proteins were susceptible. The presence of intracellular carbamylated proteins did not modify cell proliferation or type I collagen synthesis nor did it induce cell senescence, but it significantly decreased cell motility. Fibroblasts were able to degrade carbamylated proteins through the ubiquitin-proteasome system. In conclusion, intracellular proteins are susceptible to carbamylation but their accumulation does not seem to deeply affect cell function, owing largely to their elimination by the ubiquitin-proteasome system.
Abstract Several studies have revealed cytostatic activity and metabolic effects of isothiocyanic acid (ITC) esters. This was confirmed by the present study, in which the minimal dose of four aromatic ITC esters causing 100 per cent growth inhibition (min. ID 100 ) of ELD tumor cells propagated in vitro was determined. The influence on cellular metabolism of the four ITC esters in concentrations equivalent to min. id 100 was also investigated. A decrease of the total O 2 uptake by 20–45 per cent was observed in the presence of ITC esters, and succinate dehydrogenase, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, and the oxidation of NADH by mitochondria from Ehrlich's ascites tumor cells were found to be inhibited. Under aerobic conditions glucose consumption and lactate accumulation were increased when ITC esters were added to the reaction medium. Under anaerobic conditions two of the compounds showed a moderate antiglycolytic effect while two were without any influence on glucose consumption and lactate production. The possibility of a causal relationship between cytostatic and metabolic effect is discussed.
Objective: To determine the nutritional and anti – nutritional composition of the African palmyrah palm ( Borassus aethiopum ). ::: Subjects/ Materials and Methods: Studies were conducted on the proximate composition, vitamin C, total carotenoids and some anti-nutritional factors / toxins of the fresh seedling of the African palmyrah palm seedling, using standard analytical methods. Analyses were carried out in triplicate and results presented as means along with their standard deviations. ::: Results: Proximate composition of the seedling showed a moisture content of 32.45%, 4.94% crude protein, 2.12% crude fibre, 0.98% crude fat, 2.13% ash and 57.38% carbohydrate on fresh basis. Vitamin C content was found to be 38.02 mg/100g, while total carotenoid content was 2000.04mg/100g and the pH was 6.13. Phytate content was 14.42mg/100g, saponin content was 3.72mg/100g, oxalate content was 2.30mg/100g, hydrocyanic acid (HCN) content was 0.35mg/100g and total phenol content of the seedling was 200.02mg/100g. ::: Conclusion: This indicates that the seedling of the African palmyrah palm ( Borassus aethiopum ) is a foodstuff with appreciable levels of protein, crude fibre, minerals and vitamin C and pro–vitamin A as well as safe levels of toxins and anti – nutritional factors. Keywords: Palmyrah Palm, Borassus , nutritional, anti–nutritional, seedling
Primary dissociation pathways of formohydroxamic acid have been investigated in argon and xenon matrices. The irradiation of the HCONHOH/Ar(Xe) matrices with full output of an Xe arc lamp leads to the formation of hydrogen bonded HNCO–H2O and NH2OH–CO complexes. Two structures were identified for the isocyanic acid–water complex, in the first one HNCO is hydrogen bonded to an oxygen atom of the water molecule and in the second, water serves as a proton donor toward the nitrogen atom of HNCO. For the hydroxylamine–carbon monoxide complex the spectra prove the existence of the structure with the OH group attached to the carbon atom and also suggest the existence of the structure with the NH2 group interacting with the carbon atom. The identification of the products is confirmed by 15N isotopic substitution and by DFT calculations (at the B3LYP level of the theory with 6-311++G(2d,2p) basis set) of the structure and vibrational frequencies of the identified complexes.
In the past few years, considerable efforts have been directed towards the further development of Urea-SCR(selective catalytic reduction) technique for diesel-driven vehicle. Although urea possesses considerable advantages over Ammonia in terms of toxicity and handling, its necessary decomposition into Ammonia and carbon dioxide complicates the DeNOx process. Moreover, a mobile SCR system has only a short distance between engine exhaust and the catalyst entrance. Hence, this leads to not enough residence times of urea, and therefore evaporation and thermolysis cannot be completed at the catalyst entrance. This may cause high secondary emissions of Ammonia and isocyanic acid from the reducing agent and also leads to the fact that a considerable section of the catalyst may be misused for the purely thermal steps of water evaporation and thermolysis of urea. Hence the key factor to implementation of SCR technology on automobile is fast thermolysis, good mixing of Ammonia and gas, and reducing Ammonia slip. In this context, this study performs three-dimensional numerical simulation of urea injection of heavy-duty diesel engine under various injection pressure, injector locations and number of injector hole. This study employs Eulerian-Lagrangian approach to consider break-up, evaporation and heat and mass-transfer between droplet and exhaust gas with considering thermolysis and the turbulence dispersion effect of droplet. The SCR-monolith brick has been treated as porous medium. The effect of location and number of hole of urea injector on the uniformity of Ammonia concentration distribution and the amount of water at the entrance of SCR-monolith has been examined in detail under various injection pressures. The present results show useful guidelines for the optimum design of urea injector for reducing Ammonia slip and improving DeNOx performance.
The sublimation and subsequent dissociation of cyanuric acid particles (HNCO) 3 and the thermal decomposition of isocyanic acid (HNCO) were investigated behind incident and reflected shock waves at high temperatures. In a first series of experiments, the shock-induced sublimation and dissociation of cyanuric acid particles was studied by particle light scattering and by OH and CO absorption measurements. Scattered light intensities were used to monitor the particle size decrease at temperatures 540 K T Q 1 (5) rotational line in the (0−0) band of the OH A 2 Σ + «X 2 Π + transition, at ν =32403.405 cm −1 . An apparent rate coefficient of (HNCO) 3 →OH+products k 2,app =1.5×10 7 exp(−197 kJmol −1 / RT ) s −1 was determined from the initial slope of the measured OH concentration profiles at temperatures 2290 K T T ν =2244.37722 cm −1 . The resulting absorption profiles were evaluated in terms of concentrations of the expected decomposition product CO. The rate coefficient of HNCO+Ar→CO+NH+Ar k 3 =9.0×10 14 exp (−295 kJmol −1 / RT ) cm 3 mol −1 s −1 was determined from the concentration profiles.
Summary ::: ::: The reasons for enzyme survival in a heat processed pack have been investigated with reference to the β-glucosidase system in the kernels of plums. This enzyme breaks down the diglucoside amygdalin to glucose, benzaldehyde and hydrocyanic acid. The variation of enzyme activity with the pH of the system and its inactivation by heat have been examined. At 60°C, in aqueous solution, the enzyme was 90% inactivated in 32 min at pH 5.0, and in 0.6 min at pH 3.0. In the presence of its substrate, amygdalin, and in the solid phase the enzyme was much more heat stable. Because the enzyme system in the kernels is at its optimum pH, in contact with its substrate, and in the solid phase, it is not wholly inactivated by the normal heat process given to canned plums. The variation in residual enzyme activity in the stone according to the heat treatment given has been demonstrated, and the subsequent breakdown of amygdalin to benzaldehyde and cyanide measured.
Wild Manihot species native to Brazil were collected from different localities and studied for economic characters and nature of their wild habitats. Screening for protein and hydrocyanic acid content showed two of them, M. oligantha Pax and M. gracilis Pax, to have a notably high percentage of protein combined with a low percentage of hydrocyanic acid. ::: ::: Study of natural habitats has revealed a certain genetic potential in the material. It has been possible to detect, among other characteristics, resistance to drought and excessive soil aluminium toxicity and adaptation to cool temperatures.
Prunus serotine seed, was processed to produce a defatted flour (71.07 ± 2.10% yield) without hydrocyanic acid. The total protein was 50.94 ± 0.64%. According to sensory evaluation of cookies with P. serotine flour, the highest score in overall impression (6.31) was at 50% flour substitution. Its nutritional composition stood out for its protein and fiber contents 12.50% and 0.93%, respectively. Protein concentrate (PsPC) was elaborated (81.44 ± 7.74% protein) from defatted flour. Emulsifying properties of PsPC were studied in emulsions at different mass fractions; ϕ = 0.002, 0.02, 0.1, 0.2, and 0.4 through physicochemical analysis and compared with whey protein concentrate (WPC). Particle size in emulsions increased, as did oil content, and results were reflected in microscope photographs. PsPC at ϕ 0.02 showed positive results along the study, reflected in the microphotograph and emulsifying stability index (ESI) test (117.50 min). At ϕ 0.4, the lowest ESI (29.34 min), but the maximum emulsifying activity index (EAI) value (0.029 m2/g) was reached. WPC had an EAI value higher than PsPC at ϕ ≥ 0.2, but its ESI were always lower in all mass fraction values. PsPC can compete with emulsifiers as WPC and help stabilize emulsions.
Fumigation of enclosures and commodities at atmospheric pressure, for the killing of pest infestations, has been practiced widely for many years. According to Monro (6) and others, the first fumigations at reduced pressure were made simultaneously about 30 years ago, by Mackie (5) in the Philippines, and by Sasscer and Hawkins (9) in the United States. It appears, however, that such fumigations were attempted at least as early as 1892.2 Fumigations at reduced pressures are generally, but erroneously, called "vacuum'' instead of "partial vacuum" fumigations. Because of the common usage, the two terms will be used interchangeably in the present paper to designate fumigations made at reduced pressure, in contrast to those made at atmospheric pressure. Two kinds of vacuum fumigation have been used?namely, the sustained and the dissipated. In sustained-vacuum fumigation, air pressure is reduced the desired amount, the fumigant is allowed to enter the chamber, and the partial vacuum is maintained during the entire fumigation period. In dissipated-vacuum fumigation, the pressure is first reduced, and then the vacuum or partial vacuum is dissipated. The fumigant is introduced during or shortly before dissipation. Atmospheric pressure is maintained during the fumigation period. At the end of the fumigation period, the air and fumigant are removed from the chamber, and at least partially from the commodity, by again reducing the pressure, a process which is sometimes repeated two or three times. The early history of fumigation has been summarized by Essig (4) and Quayle (8). In a recent article, Monro (6) discusses the basic theories of fumigation, with special reference to the penetration of gases into the commodities; he also raises a question as to the validity of the use of the term "vacuum'' fumigation. Fumigante such as hydrocyanic acid, methyl bromide, carbon disulphide, 1 Paper no. 517, University of California Citrus Experiment Station, Riverside, California.
Four antagonists, viz., Bacillus sp., B. subtilis, 12D, and Pseudomonas fluorescens which were inhibitory towards bacterial blight of cotton (Xanthomonas axonopodis pv. malvacearum) in vitro were found to exert different mechanisms of biological control. All the antagonists produced antibacterial metabolites. Pseudomonas fluorescens and 12D produced siderophores and hydrocyanic acid. For the pathogen, low pH (5.5) was unfavourable and Bacillus sp. and 12D lowered the pH of the growth medium.
Photodissociation of isocyanic acid, HNCO, was studied with high-level ab initio methods. Geometry optimizations of stationary points and surface crossing seams were performed with the complete active space self-consistent-field (CASSCF) method, and the energetics were re-evaluated with single-point second-order multireference perturbation theory (CASPT2). The three product channels that participate in the photodissociation process are [1] HN(X 3Σ−)+CO at 86.0 (calculated 79.6) kcal/mol, [2] H+NCO(X 2Π) at 109.7 (108.7) kcal/mol, and [3] HN(a 1Δ)+CO at 122.2 (120.8) kcal/mol. The four electronic states, S0, S1, T1, and T2, that interconnect these channels were studied in detail. S1 exhibits dissociation barriers to both, channel [2] and [3], whose respective reverse heights are 11.3 and 1.2 kcal/mol, in good agreement with experiment as well as previous theoretical works. The two triplets, T1 and T2, show barriers of similar heights for HN bond fission, while S0 has no barriers to either channel. Various ...
Abstract Urea-SCR is an efficient method to reduce NOx emission from diesel vehicles, but the active sites of Cu-SAPO-34 for urea-related reactions have not been well identified. In the present work, a series of Cu-SAPO-34 catalysts with different copper species were prepared and tested for urea thermolysis, urea hydrolysis and urea-SCR. Temperature-programmed experiments and in-situ diffuse reflectance infrared Fourier transform spectroscopy (in-situ DRIFTS) were used to determine isolated Cu2+ ions as the main active sites for these reactions. HNCO (isocyanic acid) and NH3 are formed via urea thermolysis. HNCO is less active than NH3 to interact with NO, and most of HNCO is hydrolyzed to produce NH3 in urea-SCR. In the presence of NO2, the reactivity of HNCO as a reducing agent is promoted, but both HNCO-SCR and HNCO hydrolysis would be inhibited by the deposition of NH4NO3. These findings provide a foundation for improving deNOx efficiency of Cu-SAPO-34 catalysts on diesel vehicles.
Abstract The mass spectrometric behavior of 1-(N-benzyloxycarbonylamino)arylmethyl-phosphonate phenyl monoesters was investigated under positive ion electrospray ionization conditions. All nitrogen-protonated title compounds undergo four- and/or six-membered ring rearrangements to yield nitrogen-containing fragment ions by consecutive or simultaneous loss of a carbon dioxide and phenyl hydrogen phosphonate or phenyl benzylphosphonate or an arylmethylimine. All oxygen-protonated title compounds undergo four- to six-membered ring rearrangements to produce fragment ions by loss of a carbon dioxide plus an arylmethylimine, or phenyl benzylphosphonate, by consecutive or simultaneous loss of benzyl phenyl ether and isocyanic acid. The fragmentation is obviously different from the corresponding methyl and ethyl monoesters, which show a tendency to undergo intramolecular four-membered ring rearrangements only. GRAPHICAL ABSTRACT
Prunus serotine seed, was processed to produce a defatted flour (71.07 ± 2.10% yield) without hydrocyanic acid. The total protein was 50.94 ± 0.64%. According to sensory evaluation of cookies with P. serotine flour, the highest score in overall impression (6.31) was at 50% flour substitution. Its nutritional composition stood out for its protein and fiber contents 12.50% and 0.93%, respectively. Protein concentrate (PsPC) was elaborated (81.44 ± 7.74% protein) from defatted flour. Emulsifying properties of PsPC were studied in emulsions at different mass fractions; φ = 0.002, 0.02, 0.1, 0.2, and 0.4 through physicochemical analysis and compared with whey protein concentrate (WPC). Particle size in emulsions increased, as did oil content, and results were reflected in microscope photographs. PsPC at φ 0.02 showed positive results along the study, reflected in the microphotograph and emulsifying stability index (ESI) test (117.50 min). At φ 0.4, the lowest ESI (29.34 min), but the maximum emulsifying activity index (EAI) value (0.029 m 2 /g) was reached. WPC had an EAI value higher than PsPC at φ ≥ 0.2, but its ESI were always lower in all mass fraction values. PsPC can compete with emulsifiers as WPC and help stabilize emulsions.
Photodissociation of isocyanic acid, HNCO, was studied with high-level ab initio methods. Geometry optimizations of stationary points and surface crossing seams were performed with the complete active space self-consistent-field ͑CASSCF͒ method, and the energetics were re-evaluated with single-point second-order multireference perturbation theory ͑CASPT2͒. The three product channels that participate in the photodissociation process are †1 ‡ HN(X 3 ⌺ Ϫ )ϩCO at 86.0 ͑calculated 79.6͒ kcal/mol, †2 ‡ HϩNCO(X 2 ⌸) at 109.7 ͑108.7͒ kcal/mol, and †3 ‡ HN(a 1 ⌬) ϩCO at 122.2 ͑120.8͒ kcal/mol. The four electronic states, S 0 , S 1 , T 1 , and T 2 , that interconnect these channels were studied in detail. S 1 exhibits dissociation barriers to both, channel †2 ‡ and †3 ‡, whose respective reverse heights are 11.3 and 1.2 kcal/mol, in good agreement with experiment as well as previous theoretical works. The two triplets, T 1 and T 2 , show barriers of similar heights for HN bond fission, while S 0 has no barriers to either channel. Various key isomerization transition states as well as numerous minima on the seam of surface crossings ͑MSX's͒ were also found. At photoexcitation energies near channel †3 ‡ threshold, products to channel †3 ‡ are likely to be formed via S 1˜ † 3 ‡ ͑if enough energy in excitation͒ and S 1˜S 0˜ † 3 ‡. Channel †2 ‡ can be formed via S 1˜S 0˜ † 2 ‡; ͑HN-mode quanta͒ϩS 1˜T 1˜ † 2 ‡; S 1˜T 2˜ † 2 ‡; S 1˜T 2˜T 1˜ † 2 ‡, and channel †1 ‡ via S 1˜S 0˜T 1˜ † 1 ‡, S 1˜T 1˜ † 1 ‡ and S 1˜T 2˜T 1˜ † 1 ‡. At higher photoexcitation energies the S 1˜ † 3 ‡ pathway is expected to be dominant while S 1˜ † 2 ‡, with the higher activation energy, is expected to drop rapidly. Also addressed are such important issues as the impact of a vibrationally excited HN mode on a channel †2 ‡ yield, and the band origin of the S 1 -S 0 excitation spectrum.
Abstract The structure and energy of the 1:1 complexes between isocyanic acid (HNCO) and H 2 O are investigated using FTIR matrix isolation spectroscopy and quantum calculations at the MP2/6-31G(d,p) level. Calculations yield two stable complexes. The first and most stable one (Δ E =23.3 kJ/mol) corresponds a form which involves a hydrogen bond between the acid hydrogen of HNCO and the oxygen of water. The second form involves a hydrogen bond between the terminal oxygen of HNCO and hydrogen of water. In an argon matrix at 10 K, only the first form is observed. Adsorption on amorphous ice water at 10 K shows the formation of only one adsorption site between HNCO and ice. It is comparable to the complex observed in matrix and involves an interaction with the dangling oxygen site of ice. Modeling using computer code indicates the formation of polymeric structure on ice surface. Warming of HNCO, adsorbed on H 2 O ice film or co-deposited with H 2 O samples above 110 K, induces the formation of isocyanate ion (OCN − ) characterized by its ν as NCO infrared absorption band near 2170 cm −1 . OCN − can be produced by purely solvation-induced HNCO dissociative ionization. The transition state of this process is calculated 42 kJ/mol above the initial state, using the ONIOM model in B3LYP/6-31g(d,p).
Two versions of the double-layered composite methods, including the restricted open-shell model chemistry based on the complete basis set quadratic mode (DL-ROCBS-Q) and the extrapolated CBS limit of electronic energy on the basis of the coupled cluster with single, double, and noniterative triple excitations with the hierarchical sequence of the correlation-consistent basis sets (DL-RCCSD(T)/CBS), were developed to calculate the energetic reaction routes for the systems involving 13/14 heavy atoms with good balance between efficiency and accuracy. Both models have been employed to investigate the oxidation reactions of heptafluoroisobutyronitrile ((CF3)2CFCN) with hydroxyl radical. The (CF3)2CFCN + OH reaction is dominated by the C-O addition/elimination routes as bifurcated into trans- and cis-conformations. Although the formation of isocyanic acid or hydrogen fluoride is highly exothermic, the major nascent product was predicted to be the less exoergic cyanic acid. Preference of the product channels could be tuned by the single water molecule in the presence of the H2O-HO complex. The production of amide compound was found to be the most significant route accompanied by the OH regeneration. Moreover, the OH radical could be an efficient catalyst for the hydrolysis of (CF3)2CFCN. Implication of the current theoretical results in the chemistry of (CF3)2CFCN for both atmospheric sink and potential dielectric replacement gas was discussed.
The present study was carried out at Department of Botany, University of Kalyani, Kalyani, Nadia, West Bengal, with the objective to isolate, characterize chilli rhizospheric soil bacteria and record their plant growth promoting rhizobaetana (PGPR) activity potential in southern West Bengal as a model. Chilli plants were collected from local farmers' fields. Bacterial strains were collected from rhizospheric soil, rhizoplane and root invaded condition by dilution plate count technique employing 4-different media. The isolated bacterial strains were characterized by their morphological, cultural, staining and biochemical properties. Salt and pH tolerance also been studied. Different direct plant growth promoting activities of the bacterial isolates viz. ammonia production, phosphate solubilization, siderophore production, !AA production and indirect activities such as hydrocyanic acid (HCN) production, against antagonistic effect on plant pathogenic bacteria (Pseudomonas, Xanthomonas) and fungus (Fusarium) were studied. It was found that out of 36 isolates, except 4 isolates all showed multifunctional PGPR and bio-control activity. These multifunctional PGPR may be used for improvement of crop peiformance in chilli and the:y may be formulated to be used as biofertilizers for safe farming practices.
Abstract 1. 1. The electrocardiographic changes resulting from intravenous injection of small doses of sodium cyanide and from inhalation of lethal doses of hydrocyanic acid are described. 2. 2. The mechanisms by which these effects are produced are discussed. 3. 3. The period of asystole which results from small doses of sodium cyanide (0.11 to 0.2 mg. per kilogram of body weight) even in normal hearts is offered as a possible explanation for the untoward and, at times, alarming reactions which have been observed when sodium cyanide is used to determine arm-to-carotid body circulation time.
The condensation of esters of isothiocyanic acid with thiosalicylic acid has given N-alkyl-substituted 2-thio-4-oxobenzodihydro-1, 3-thiazines. The structure of the compounds obtained has been shown by their reactions with thiosemicarbazide, by hydrolysis, and by oxidation.
A plant growth promotory bacterial strain, isolated from the potato rhizosphere, was characterized as Pseudomonas aeruginosa (GRC1). The isolate produced an hydroxamate type of siderophore after 48 h of incubation on tryptic soy medium under iron deficient conditions. The in vitro antifungal activity of P. aeruginosa was tested against two soil-borne plant pathogens, Macrophomina phaseolina and Fusarium oxysporum. The antagonistic behaviour of the isolate was tested by dual culture technique. The growth inhibition of M. phaseolina and F. oxysporum was 74.1% and 70.5%, respectively, after 5 days of incubation. The production of hydrocyanic acid and indole acetic acid was also recorded under normal growth conditions.
Abstract The consumption of bitter cassava by root boring, leaf chewing and leaf sucking insects was measured on a slash and burn agricultural site in the Amazon Territory of Venezuela. Chewing and boring insects consumed less than 3% of the tissue, possibly because of the presence of cyanogenic glucosides in the cassava plants. In contrast to the boring and chewing insects, leaf sucking insects were more effective herbivores. They may be able to consume the phloem sap without activating the hydrocyanic acid. However, even sucking insects consumed only about 14% of the phosphorus uptake of the plants. We conclude that insect herbivory did not play a major role in the decline of productivity on the slash and burn agricultural site.
The volatile constituents of black chokeberry were analysed by gas chromatography and mass spectrometry. Concentrations of the 48 compounds identified were in general below their individual threshold values. The main compounds were benzaldehyde cyanohydrin, hydrocyanic acid and benzaldehyde. Among other benzene derivatives identified in the press juice were benzylalcohol, 2-phenylethanol, phenylacetaldehyde, salicylaldehyde, acetophenone, 2′-hydroxyacetophenone, 4′-methoxyacetophenone, phenol, 2-methoxyphenol and methyl benzoate.
Neural networks are widely used in chemical process modeling,due to the excellent approximation capability of nonlinear mapping,while the modeling approach is a black-box method,so that the model obtained by the method is lack of transparency,each variable has poor explanation ability,thus it is limited to guide and optimize technical decisions in process indusry.Three methods that network interpretation diagram,connection weights and improved randomization texts are combined to improve transparency of neural network model in complex chemical process.Fistly,network interpretation diagram is used to visualize black-box of the network model;then connection weights method is employed to calculate the relative contribution ratio of decision variables;lastly,the connection weights,the overall contribution and relative contribution rate of decision parameters are included to implement significance tests using the suggested randomization tests for trimming the model.Verification is carried by the case of hydrocyanic acid production;the results show that the proposed method could obtain internal information of process variables and greatly improve the understandable capacity of NN model.Therefore,the study provides a fine way to improve the transparency of neural network model in complex chemical process.
1. ::: ::: The reaction of trimethylisothiocyanatosilane with ethylene oxide is catalyzed by hydroxyl-containing compounds. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: A mechanism was proposed for the reaction of organylisothiocyanatosilanes with ethylene oxide, which includes the formation of thiocyanic acid, condensation of the latter with ethylene oxide, and exchange reaction of the organylisothiocyanatosilane with the formed 2-thiocyanatoethanol.
The invention provides a preparation method of isophorone nitrile. According to the method, addition reaction between isophorone and hydrocyanic acid is performed to produce isophorone nitrile in the presence of a basic catalyst, wherein the basic catalyst is a basic anion exchange resin. The crude product prepared by the preparation method can be directly purified, the steps of catalyst treatment for separating the product from the catalyst thereby simplifying the preparation process, reducing equipment investment, shortening material process flow and lowering material consumption, and achieving more environmentally-friendly effect.
The photodissociation of isocyanic acid (HNCO) on the first excited singlet state following the excitation at 210 nm was investigated with an ion velocity slice imaging technique by probing the GO fragment. It was found from the (2+1) resonance-enhanced multi-photon ionization (REMPI) spectrum that the CO fragments are rotationally hot with population up to J(max)=50. The velocity imagings of the GO fragments at J(CO)=30 and 35 indicate that formation of NH(alpha(1)Delta)+CO((XE+)-E-1, upsilon=0) is the predominant dissociation channel at 210 urn. From analysis of the GO fragment translational energy distributions, the NH(alpha(1 Delta)) fragment was observed to be rotationally cold, about half of the available energy was partitioned into the translational motion of fragments after dissociation, and the NH(alpha(1)Delta)+CO(X-1 Sigma(+)) dissociation threshold was determined at 42738 +/- 30 cm(-1). From analysis of the CO fragment angular distributions, the dissociation anisotropy parameter beta was found to be negative, and increasing with the rotational quantum number of the NH fragment, i.e., from -0.75 at J(NH)=2-4 to -0.17 at J(NH)=11. Impulsive direct and vertical dissociation process of HNCO on the singlet state at 210 nm was confirmed experimentally. A classical impact dissociation model was employed to explain the dependence of the beta value on the rotational excitation of the NH fragment.
An improved spectrophotometric assay of hydrocyanic acid and cyanide ions with picric acid and resorcinol is described. Cyanides at low concentrations in water (0-10 μg mL - 1 CN-) and hydrocyanic acid collected in dilutesodium hydroxide solution react with a solution of 2% sodium carbonate containing 210 μg mL - 1 of picric acid and 100 μg mL - 1 of resorcinol to form a novel indophenol compound, 3-hydroxy-4-(2-hydroxy-4-oxo-cyclohexa-2,5-dienylideneamino)-2,6-dinitro-benzonitrile, which is red-brown in color with a maximum absorption at 481 nm. The color system obeys Beer's law at 481 nm in the range of 0.1-10 μg mL - 1 CN - , in which a maximum molar absorptivity of 8.31 x 10 3 1 mole - 1 cm - 1 has been evaluated. Also, the molar absorptivity at 516 nm of the new dye proved to be several times higher than that of the red-colored compound obtained from cyanide and picric acid only. Spectral and elemental analyses confirmed the structure of the new dye and a reaction mechanism is discussed.
The photodissociation dynamics of isocyanic acid (HNCO) has been studied by the time-sliced velocity map ion imaging technique at 193 nm. The NH(a1Δ) products were measured via (2+1) resonance enhanced multiphoton ionization. Images have been accumulated for the NH(a1Δ) rotational states in the ground and vibrational excited state (v=0 and 1). The center-of-mass translational energy distribution derived from the NH(a1Δ) images implies that the CO vibrational distributions are inverted for most of the measured 1NH(v|j) internal states. The anisotropic product angular distribution observed indicates a rapid dissociation process for the N−C bond cleavage. A bimodal rotational state distribution of CO(v) has been observed, this result implies that isocyanic acid dissociates in the S1 state in two different pathways.
The current state of isocyanic acid chemistry is reviewed with an accent on the kinetics and mechanism of the reactions. It is shown that already today the acid can be available for the large-scale production and use in numerous synthesis of biologically active substances and intermediates of organic synthesis
A series of high-vacuum thermolysis experiments with alkyldithio thiadiazoles was performed between ambient temperature and 900 °C to investigate the thermal stability of thiadiazole type lubricant additives. The thermolysis products were trapped by matrix-isolation techniques and characterized by IR spectroscopy. Thermolysis of 2-(tert-butyldithio)-5-methyl-1,3,4-thiadiazole (TB1) gave 2-methylpropene, isothiocyanic acid (HNCS), 2-mercapto-5-methyl-1,3,4-thiadiazole (McMT), hydrogen cyanide (HCN), carbon disulfide (CS2), acetonitrile (CH3CN), and elemental sulfur Sx ::: [x ::: = ::: (2), 4, 6, 8]. A decomposition mechanism is discussed explaining the temperature-dependent composition of product mixtures, and a general precursor concept for organosulfur type anti-wear additives is presented.
The simple molecules, water, carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, and hydrocyanic acid, as well as volatile organic substances have been used to investigate fundamental processes arising during laser tissue interaction. The compounds have been determined by gas chromatography (GC), by gas chromatography in combination with mass spectrometry (GC/MS), and by help of an ion selective electrode. Especially, the dependence of the emitted substances, irradiating porcine tissue (bone, muscle, and liver) with XeCl, TEA CO2, and cw CO2 laser radiation, on different reaction gases are appropriate to obtain information on basic processes. The results demonstrate that oxidation is a process effective in rivalry to the formation of such toxic substances as carbon monoxide, hydrocyanic acid, and styrene as a typical volatile organic compound. The moisture content of tissue is another parameter influencing the interaction processes characteristically. It is possible to reduce the emitted amount of harmful chemicals working in an oxygen containing atmosphere or with a high water content in the reaction zone.© (1995) COPYRIGHT SPIE--The International Society for Optical Engineering. Downloading of the abstract is permitted for personal use only.
abstract 1-Substituted-3-aminoquinoline-2,4(1H,3H)-diones react with potassium cyanate or potassium thiocy-anate in boiling acetic acid to give ureido- or thioureidooxindoles, spiro-oxindoles and dihy-droimidazoquinolones. However, if the starting compounds are substituted with a benzyl group atposition 3, a C-debenzylation proceeds to give imidazoquinolones. According to a proposed reactionmechanism, a molecular rearrangement of the primarily formed mono-substituted urea or thiourea takesplace. All compounds were characterized by 1 H, 13 C and IR spectroscopy and MS data. 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved. 1. IntroductionRecently, we published the reaction of 1-unsubstituted3-amino-1H,3H-quinoline-2,4-diones 1 with isothiocyanic acid(prepared in situ from potassium thiocyanate) in boiling aceticacid. 1 During a rearrangement of the addition products, novel 2,3-dihydro-3-thioxoimidazo[1,5-c]quinazolin-5(6H)-ones 2 arose inhigh yields. However, if the starting compounds were substitutedwith a benzyl group at position 3, a C-debenzylation proceeded togive 2,3-dihydro-2-thioxo-1H-imidazo[4,5-c]quinolin-4(5H)-ones3. When using thiourea as a source of thiocyanic acid, the yields ofcompounds2and3weresubstantiallylower.Thereactionof1withurea
Abstract A simple quantitative test for cyanide is described. Cyanide is released as the hydrocyanic acid and conducted through a prepared disk to form a prussian blue spot. This spot is visually or instrumentally compared to standard spots. Two μg of cyanide can be detected by this method.
Abstract : When the data on which the internationally accepted LCt50 of inhaled hydrocyanic acid (AC,HCN) vapors in man were reviewed and the figures published widely in scientific journals were examined, it was decided that more valid estimates of the toxicity of HCN in man should be developed. LCt's for 1%, 16%, 30%, 50%, 84%, and 99% of an exposed population for exposure times of from 0.5 to 30 minutes were derived. Because of the paucity of data on controlled experiments with man, it was necessary to use animal data. Among the assumptions made were that man falls into the species that are relatively resistant to HCN; that man is at least as resistant as the goat; and that man is at least four times as resistant as the mouse. The values derived are given. (Author)
A simple condensation reaction of thiocyanic acid with a ketohexose can provide a library of up to 10 different molecules composed of oxazolidinethiones (OZTs) or oxazolinethiones (OXTs). The question arising is “how to manage such a complex chemistry?” Careful control of the reaction conditions associated with purification sequences (involving selective protection or functionalization) can certainly help. A subtle and challenging chemical game could be played between selective pre- and post-protections and original functionalizing reactions. In this PhD work, we disclose the development of new chemical and purification tactics to access OZTs and oxazolidinones (OZOs) anchored onto ketohexose scaffolds, namely D-fructo and its epimers D-psico, D-tagato, whose chemistry has been poorly investigated in comparison with other monosaccharidic systems. Furthermore we have improved our understanding about saccharidic thionocarbamates chemistry for a better valorization from both chemical and biological point of view. We have generated a library of fixed tautomeric forms of hybrid compounds to be submitted to biological tests. This panel of compounds was subjected to antimicrobial screening and some molecules have shown very efficient effects. Moreover, the leading inhibitors of GLUT5 will be used in the development of biochemical tools for a better comprehension of the role of this D-fructose transporter in relation to type 2 diabetes and obesity.
This paper introduces the production process of hydrocyanic acid synthesis,and reviews the present situation of the research and production and the development tendency of hydrocyanic acid synthesis in China and foreign countries.
1 - Principal Reasons for the Present Study and Choice of its Objectives.- 1.1 The problem of industrial metal waste disposal into the marine environment.- 1.2 Definition of the terms of reference of the study.- a. Specific subjects.- b. General scope.- 1.3 Criteria used for the selection of metals and metal complexes studied.- a. Nature and intensity of the problem.- b. Occurrence, degree and forms.- c. Estimated future industrial uses of the metals and metal complexes up to the year 1980.- 1.4 Some comments on the reasons for excluding certain metals.- a. Mercury.- b. Lead.- c. Arsenic.- d. Fluorine compounds.- e. Silicon.- 2 - Origins, Forms and Characteristics of Chromium Pollution.- 2.1 Sources and production.- a. Types of minerals.- b. Production of metal and metal compounds.- 2.2 A summary of production and utilization.- a. Production.- b. Consumption.- c. Utilization.- 2.3 Some applications.- a. Metallurgical uses.- b. Chemical production.- c. Refractory industries.- 2.4 An initial examination of the qualitative and quantitive wastes produced by various industrial processes discussed previously.- a. Production losses.- b. Losses in cleaning operations in the production of special chromium steels and more specifically, stainless and refractory steels.- c. Losses on utilization.- d. Other sources of losses to the environment.- 2.5 An examination of various known preventative techniques for waste products containing chromium.- a. Hexavalent chrome (CrVI).- b. Trivalent chrome (CrlIII).- c. Industrial examples.- d. General economic information on the treatment of chromium containing effluents.- 3 - Origins, Forms and Characteristics of Zinc and Cadmium Pollution.- 3.1 Sources and production.- a. Types of minerals.- b. Production of the metal and metal derivatives.- 3.2 Summary of production and utilization.- a. Zinc industry.- b. Cadmium industry.- 3.3 Utilization.- a. Zinc.- b. Cadmium.- 3.4 A preliminary discussion on the qualitative and quantitative waste products produced by various industries.- a. Zinc.- b. Cadmium.- 3.5 Summary of the preventative techniques known for effluents containing zinc and/or cadmium.- a. Zinc.- b. Cadmium.- 4 - Origins, Forms and Characteristics of Pollution by Cyano-Metal Compounds.- 4.1 Summary of large-scale methods of production of cyanides and cyano-metal compounds.- a. Hydrocyanic acid - HCN.- b. Alkaline cyanides.- c. Calcium cyanides.- d. Other cyano-metallic compounds.- 4.2 Main industrial sectors concerned in the uses of cyanides and cyano-metallic compounds.- a. Electroplating.- b. Mining industry.- c. Metallurgy.- d. Synthetic fibre industry.- e. Other sectors.- 4.3 Census of various known prevention techniques for effluents containing cyanides and cyano-metal compounds.- a. General.- b. Destruction procedure by chlorine (hypochlorite or chlorine gas).- c. Treatment with peroxides.- d. Electrolytic oxidation.- e. Catalytic oxidation.- f. Ozone oxidation.- g. E.I. Dupont process (Nemours).- h. Other complementary methods of treatment.- i. Some general economic data on the treatment of cyanide containing effluents.- 5 - Measuring and Monitoring Systems of the Different Known forms of Pollution for the Polluting Elements or Compounds Concerned.- 5.1 Water quality.- a. General aspects.- b. Toxicology of water.- 5.2 Parameters of interest to water quality.- a. Physical parameters.- b. Standard chemical parameters.- c. Oxygen balance.- d. Eutrophication parameters.- e. Odorous compounds.- f. Mineral oils and phenols.- g. Trace metals and organic micro-pollutants.- 5.3 Monitoring systems.- a. General aspects.- b. Characteristics of monitoring systems.- c. Manual and automatic systems.- d. Stations for automatic systems.- 5.4 Analytical techniques.- a. Methods for water analysis.- b. General comments concerning sea water in particular.- c. Method of analysis for chrome.- d. Methods of analysis for zinc and cadmium.- e. Methods of analysis for cyanide and cyano-compounds.- 5.5 General economic data.- a. Introduction.- b. Monitoring networks.- c. Measurement of heavy metals.- d. Automatic monitoring of heavy metals.- e. Conclusions.- 6 - The Eco-Toxicological Risks Involved.- 6.1 Introduction.- 6.2 General considerations.- 6.3 Supply routes and self-regulation of concentration in the marine environment.- a. Supply routes.- b. Self-regulating processes.- 6.4 Transfer to the bios.- a. Marine flora.- b. Marine fauna.- 6.5 Biological mechanisms (absorption-distribution-fixation).- a. Gills.- b. Digestive level.- c. Cutaneous-mucus level.- 6.6 Interaction parameters.- a. Physico-chemical.- b. Biological.- 6.7 Toxity of elements or compound pollutants under consideration in this report.- a. Impact.- b. Analysis and evaluation.- c. Summary table.- 6.8 Evolutionary variability - Phenomena of adaptation.- a. Form in the environment.- b. Variability: time/concentration - transport mechanisms - biotopes.- c.Adaptation.- 6.9 Transfer to man.- a. Metabolism.- b. Interaction between compounds.- c. Toxicity.- 6.10 Impact of marine pollution on man.- a. At the level of contact.- b. At the level of food supply poisoning.- c. Degradation of the environment.- 6.11 Research on the practical threshold of the marine environment.- 7 - Conclusions - General and Specific Recommendations.- 7.1 General recommendations.- a. Behaviour of wastes (salts and compounds) in the marine environment.- b. The problem of reproducibility of analytical results.- 7.2 Specific recommendations.- a. Preliminary considerations.- b. Specific recommendations.- 7.3 Suggestions for pilot action plans.- a. Multi-element centralized purification platforms.- b. Establishment of a dispersion and accumulation model for a given region in the marine environment for those polluting elements studied in the present report (chromium, cadmium, zinc, cyano-metal compounds).- c. Study of sorption phenomenon of polluting elements (heavy metals and/or organo halogens).- Annex 1 - General Synoptic Diagram of Pollution Caused by the Production and the Various uses of Chromium.- Annex 2 - General Synoptic Diagram of Pollution Caused by the Production and the Various uses of Cadmium and Zinc.- List of Industrial Groups Members of the A.E.O. and Persons Who Contributed to the Study.
The recent isolation of isofulminic acid has opened the door for a comparative study of all the four possible CHNO isomers: isocyanic acid, cyanic acid, fulminic acid, and isofulminic acid. Their infrared spectra have been measured in an argon matrix at 13 K and are compared with the results of ab initio calculations.
A review of the literature on topical therapy discloses a vast numbe1 of medicaments which have been acclaimed for their effectiveness as antipruritic agents. The range is from hydrocyanic acid (1) to calamansi juice (2). Unfortunately, many of these reports are based on clinical impressions and are not grounded on even simply controlled data. With the exception of certain of the current studies on antihistaminic preparations (3, 4, 5, 6), neither placeboes nor controlled comparisons on symmetrical bilateral areas (7) have found employment in these evaluations. Moreover, the medical literature abounds in reports on these purportedly efficacious measures with little evidence of any refutation. The recording of negative or conflicting data seems to have given way entirely to the presentation of more recipes for the relief of itching.
The photodissociation dynamics of isocyanic acid (HNCO) has been studied by the timesliced velocity map ion imaging technique at 193 nm. The NH(a 1 ∆) products were measured via (2+1) resonance enhanced multiphoton ionization. Images have been accumulated for the NH(a 1 ∆) rotational states in the ground and vibrational excited state (v=0 and 1). The center-of-mass translational energy distribution derived from the NH(a 1 ∆) images implies that the CO vibrational distributions are inverted for most of the measured 1 NH(v|j) internal states. The anisotropic product angular distribution observed indicates a rapid dissociation process for the N−C bond cleavage. A bimodal rotational state distribution of CO(v) has been observed, this result implies that isocyanic acid dissociates in the S 1 state in two different pathways.
The performance of a dry sampler, with an impregnated denuder in series with a glass fibre filter, using di-n-butylamine (DBA) for airborne isocyanates (200ml min(-1)) is investigated and compared with an impinger flask with a glass fibre filter in series (1 l min(-1)). An exposure chamber containing 1,6-hexamethylene diisocyanate (HDI), isophorone diisocyanate (IPDI), and 2,4- and 2,6-toluene diisocyanate (TDI) in the concentration range of 5-205 μg m(-3) [0.7-33 p.p.b.; relative humidity (RH) 50%], generated by gas- and liquid-phase permeation, was used for the investigation. The precision for the dry sampling for five series with eight samplers were in the range of 2.0-6.1% with an average of 3.8%. During 120-min sampling (n = 4), no breakthrough was observed when analysing samplers in series. Sixty-four exposed samplers were analysed after storage for 0, 7, 14, and 21 days. No breakdown of isocyanate derivatives was observed. Twenty-eight samplers in groups of eight were collecting isocyanates during 0.5-32h. Virtually linear relationships were obtained with regard to sampling time and collected isocyanates with correlation coefficients in the range of 0.998-0.999 with the intercept close to the origin. Pre- or post-exposure to ambient air did not affect the result. Dry sampling (n = 48) with impinger-filter sampling (n = 48) of thermal decomposition product of polyurethane polymers, at RH 20, 40, 60, and 90%, was compared for 11 isocyanate compounds. The ratio between the different isocyanates collected with dry samplers and impinger-filter samplers was in the range of 0.80-1.14 for RH = 20%, 0.8-1.25 for RH = 40%, 0.76-1.4 for RH = 60%, and 0.72-3.7 for RH = 90%. Taking into account experimental errors, it seems clear that isocyanic acid DBA derivatives are found at higher levels in the dry samples compared with impinger-filter samplers at elevated humidity. The dry sampling using DBA as the reagent enables easy and robust sampling without the need of field extraction.
Thermal decomposition of isocyanic acid HNCO diluted to less than 2.0 mol% in argon was studied behind incident shock waves over the temperature range 2100–2500 K. The decomposition course was followed by monitoring the light absorption of HNCO and NH(3Σ−) at 206 and 336 nm, respectively. It is confirmed that the primary step of the decomposition is a bimolecular process HNCO+Ar→NH(3Σ−)+CO+Ar, ΔH°0=337 kJ mol−1, with the low-pressure limit rate constants k=1017.23±0.36exp[−(402±17) kJ mol−1/RT] cm3 mol−1 s−1. The siglet-to-triplet crossing point is estimated on the basis of the RRKM low-pressure-limit rate constant calculations. The overall decomposition mechanism is suggested and its validity is confirmed by computer simulation of the time–concentration profiles of NH(3Σ−) at varying temperature.
The contributors propose a new technique of cleaning overalls in galvanic shops from crystalline natrium cyanide (NC) and alkaline solutions. The technique includes washing in hot 0.05% syntamide-5 solution for 4-5 min., double rinsing and centrifuging. The remaining quantity of NC on washed overalls does not exceed 0.02 mg/m2 (evaluated in hydrocyanic acid). Subsequent contaminations of the overalls with NC do not entail the accumulation of NC residual content. The physical and chemical characteristics of this type of overall washing are more preferable as compared to those attained through soaking in ferric sulfate solution.
Background: Lepidium ::: vesicarium (Cruciferae), one of the important medicinal ::: plants with a long history of medicinal use. The current study was designed to ::: evaluate the free radical scavenging and antimicrobial activities of the L. ::: vesicarium EO as one of the Iranian plant species. ::: Methods: ::: The compositions of the EO from the aerial parts of L. ::: vesicarium were analyzed by GC-MS and GC-FID. Furthermore, anti-oxidant and ::: anti-microbial potentials were investigated via DPPH reagent and disk diffusion ::: procedure, respectively. ::: Results: ::: A total of 18 compounds amounting 97.70% of the oil ::: have been identified, while Benzyl cyanide (43.94%), Isothio cyanic acid ::: (22.69%) and Benzyl isothio cyanate (20.69%) were the main constituents. The EO ::: showed no activity against the free radicals and studied microbial strains ::: (gram positive and gram negative and also fungi species). ::: Conclusion: ::: On the whole, the presence of cyanide derivatives in ::: studied EO revealed the rational use of this plant in medicine. Comparing with ::: other genesis of Lepidium, anti-oxidant and anti -microbial properties ::: of L. vesicarium essential oil were not noticeable.
The invention relates to a method for preparing cellulose carbamate by gas-solid reaction. Cellulose pulp or activated cellulose pulp, which is used as the raw material, and isocyanic acid gas are subjected to esterification reaction in carbon dioxide, nitrogen or any other inert gas at certain temperature under certain pressure to synthesize the cellulose carbamate. The isocyanic acid can be generated by thermally decomposing urea added into the reactor, or the ready-made isocyanic acid can be introduced into the reactor. In the cellulose carbamate preparation process by gas-solid reaction, no inert organic carrier or cosolvent (methanol, ethanol or the like) is needed, the reaction pressure is greatly lowered than the supercritical method, the preparation process is simple, environment-friendly, safe and controllable, and the prepared cellulose carbamate can be dissolved in an NaOH solution to form a favorable stable solution and can be used for preparing regenerated cellulose fibers, films or the like.
FIELD: chemistry. SUBSTANCE: urea solution is introduced into hot smoke gases (1) with temperature from 200 to 270°C. Catalyst (3) of denitrification is introduced into smoke gases with urea solution. Time of staying of smoke gases between point of urea introduction and point of establishing contact of said smoke gases with catalyst and/or temperature of smoke gases between these two points are regulated in such a way that reaction (II) of decomposition of isocyanic acid, obtained in decomposition (I) of urea, where (I) NH 2 -CO-NH 2 → NH 3 + HNCO and (II) NHCO + H 2 O → NH 3 + CO 2 into ammonia is not complete. Present in smoke gases isocyanic acid in presence of catalyst reacts with nitrogen oxides for their reduction to nitrogen state. EFFECT: method makes it possible to reduce ammonia leaks and catalyst contamination. 2 cl, 2 dwg
Molecules often fragment after photoionization in the gas phase. Usually, this process can only be investigated spectroscopically as long as there exists electron correlation between the photofragments. Important parameters, like their kinetic energy after separation, cannot be investigated. We are reporting on a femtosecond time-resolved Auger electron spectroscopy study concerning the photofragmentation dynamics of thymine. We observe the appearance of clearly distinguishable signatures from thymine′s neutral photofragment isocyanic acid. Furthermore, we observe a time-dependent shift of its spectrum, which we can attribute to the influence of the charged fragment on the Auger electron. This allows us to map our time-dependent dataset onto the fragmentation coordinate. The time dependence of the shift supports efficient transformation of the excess energy gained from photoionization into kinetic energy of the fragments. Our method is broadly applicable to the investigation of photofragmentation processes.
In addition, cassava is cyanogenic and has toxic compounds that vary in concentration in the different cultivars (BUTOLO, 2002; OTSUBO, 2004) . Hydrocyanic acid (HCN) is extremely toxic to any animal when ingested, and concentrations greater than 2.4 mg g -1 HCN kg -1 live weight can cause acute poisoning leading to death (SOARES, 1989) . Phengvichith and Ledin (2007) reported that fresh cassava leaves contains 325 mg kg -1 HCN. After 1 h of drying in the shade, the HCN level decreased to 145 mg kg -1 . Sun drying can eliminate almost 90% of the initial HCN content (RAVINDRAN et al., 1987; RAVINDRAN, 1993; WANAPAT et al., 1997) . Animals that continuously consume cassava show increased serum levels of the enzyme rhodanase, which is responsible for the detoxification of cyanide, conferring tolerance to HCN levels that would otherwise be toxic (TOKARNIA et al., 2000) .
The performance of a dry sampler, with an impregnated denuder in series with a glass fibre filter, using di-n-butylamine (DBA) for airborne isocyanates (200 ml min −1 ) is investigated and compared with an impinger flask with a glass fibre filter in series (1 l min −1 ). An exposure chamber containing 1,6-hexamethylene diisocyanate (HDI), isophorone diisocyanate (IPDI), and 2,4-and 2,6-toluene diisocyanate (TDI) in the concentration range of 5-205 μg m −3 [0.7-33 p.p.b.; relative humidity (RH) 50%], generated by gas-and liquid-phase permeation, was used for the investigation. The precision for the dry sampling for five series with eight samplers were in the range of 2.0-6.1% with an average of 3.8%. During 120-min sampling (n = 4), no breakthrough was observed when analysing samplers in series. Sixty-four exposed samplers were analysed after storage for 0, 7, 14, and 21 days. No breakdown of isocyanate derivatives was observed. Twenty-eight samplers in groups of eight were collecting isocyanates during 0.5-32 h. Virtually linear relationships were obtained with regard to sampling time and collected isocyanates with correlation coefficients in the range of 0.998-0.999 with the intercept close to the origin. Pre-or post-exposure to ambient air did not affect the result. Dry sampling (n = 48) with impinger-filter sampling (n = 48) of thermal decomposition product of polyurethane polymers, at RH 20, 40, 60, and 90%, was compared for 11 isocyanate compounds. The ratio between the different isocyanates collected with dry samplers and impinger-filter samplers was in the range of 0.80-1.14 for RH = 20%, 0.8-1.25 for RH = 40%, 0.76-1.4 for RH = 60%, and 0.72-3.7 for RH = 90%. Taking into account experimental errors, it seems clear that isocyanic acid DBA derivatives are found at higher levels in the dry samples compared with impinger-filter samplers at elevated humidity. The dry sampling using DBA as the reagent enables easy and robust sampling without the need of field extraction.
Abstract: Molecules often fragment after photoionization in the gas phase. Usually, this process can only be investigated spectroscopically as long as there exists electron correlation between the photofragments. Important parameters, like their kinetic energy after separation, cannot be investigated. We are reporting on a femtosecond time-resolved Auger electron spectroscopy study concerning the photofragmentation dynamics of thymine. We observe the appearance of clearly distinguishable signatures from thymine s neutral photofragment isocyanic acid. Furthermore, we observe a time-dependent shift of its spectrum, which we can attribute to the influence of the charged fragment on the Auger electron. This allows us to map our time-dependent dataset onto the fragmentation coordinate. The time dependence of the shift supports efficient transformation of the excess energy gained from photoionization into kinetic energy of the fragments. Our method is broadly applicable to the investigation of photofragmentation processes.
We demonstrate the concept on a specific example, the multi-photon induced fragmentation process of the nucleobase thymine (see Figure 1 ). Ultraviolet light of 4.65 eV photon energy induces a resonant three photon transition to an excited ionic state, from where the molecule is predicted to fragment into neutral isocyanic acid (HNCO) and a charged C 4 H 5 NO + fragment. Probing molecular photofragmentation by soft X-ray-induced Auger spectra. We exemplify the method on the thymine molecular cation, which breaks apart into neutral isocyanic acid (HNCO) and singly-charged C4H5NO + after three-photon UV ionization (bottom). The distance of the HNCO fragment is interrogated by a time-delayed soft X-ray pulse creating core ionized molecules. The subsequent Auger decay leads to the emission of an additional electron, which does not only have to overcome the ionization potential intrinsic to the molecule, but also the external Coulomb potential (red) of the nearby cationic fragment. The Auger emission from the small neutral HNCO in the vicinity of the positively-charged large fragment leads to a red-shifted Auger kinetic energy with respect to the Auger electron spectrum of the isolated molecule. As the dissociation coordinate increases, the redshift asymptotically disappears.
We demonstrate the concept on a specific example, the multi-photon induced fragmentation process of the nucleobase thymine (see Figure 1 ). Ultraviolet light of 4.65 eV photon energy induces a resonant three photon transition to an excited ionic state, from where the molecule is predicted to fragment into neutral isocyanic acid (HNCO) and a charged C4H5NO + fragment.
After fragmentation and sufficient separation, however, electrons from the cationic fragment cannot take part in Auger decays on the neutral fragments, because such decay processes have Figure 1 . Probing molecular photofragmentation by soft X-ray-induced Auger spectra. We exemplify the method on the thymine molecular cation, which breaks apart into neutral isocyanic acid (HNCO) and singly-charged C 4 H 5 NO + after three-photon UV ionization (bottom). The distance of the HNCO fragment is interrogated by a time-delayed soft X-ray pulse creating core ionized molecules. The subsequent Auger decay leads to the emission of an additional electron, which does not only have to overcome the ionization potential intrinsic to the molecule, but also the external Coulomb potential (red) of the nearby cationic fragment. The Auger emission from the small neutral HNCO in the vicinity of the positively-charged large fragment leads to a red-shifted Auger kinetic energy with respect to the Auger electron spectrum of the isolated molecule. As the dissociation coordinate increases, the redshift asymptotically disappears.
The article is structured in the following way: In the next section, we will introduce the experimental setups used at the free electron laser (FEL) and the synchrotron. The FEL setup was used to perform the time resolved dissociation experiment on the nucleobase thymine. Since the theoretically proposed fragmentation paths suggest splitting off neutral isocyanic acid (HNCO), we separately measured its Auger spectrum at a synchrotron to assign the neutral fragment.
1. Hydrocyanic acid administered intravenously to rabbits in doses of 0.5 to 1 mg. per kilo or sodium cyanide in doses of 1 to 2 mg. per kilo causes temporary stoppage of the respiration in passive expiration for periods varying from a few seconds to nearly four minutes. The injection must be made rapidly. 2. The respiratory center is more sensitive to hydrocyanic acid than the vaso-motor center and the latter is apparently more sensitive than the cardio-inhibitory center. 3. The action of hydrocyanic acid on the respiration and circulation resembles so closely that of certain other drugs which cause temporary stoppage of the respiration (phenylmethylisoxazolchlormethylate; Tappeiner), tetramethyl-ammonium chloride (Jodlbauer), quaternary paverin bases (Pohl) and protocatechyl-tropeine (Marshall) that it suggests the possibility that these drugs owe their activity as does hydrocyanic acid to their power to inhibit physiological oxidation in the cells upon which they act. 4. We have established that a definite antagonism exists between hydrocyanic acid and sodium iodosobenzoate in regard to the respiratory center. This antagonism would further indicate that iodosobenzoate is capable of accelerating normal physiological oxidation.
Abstract The Zn/AcOH reduction of 1 leads only to the carbonyl reduction, while C-decyanation occurs in the case of 2 . The mechanism of the latter reaction is discussed. The N-decyanation of N-cyanoamines 3 and 4 involves an ionic mechanism, leading to N-acyl derivatives and isocyanic acid, the latter compound being ultimately reduced to formic acid.
Biocontrol mechanism to suppress fungal and bacterial pathogens of rice cropby Pseudomonas sp . generally involves the production of antibiotics, siderophores, volatile compounds, hydrocyanic acid (HCN), enzymes and phytohormones. Rice is the staple food of over half of the world population. Diseases are the most important factors that affect rice production causing annual yield losses. Biological control is an eco-friendly, cost effective and sustainable alternative method in disease management.
A detailed exploration of the configurational and conformational space of hydroxyformaldoxime (hfaox) has been carried out with the aid of first principles quantum chemical techniques at the HF, MP2, B3LYP, and CCSD(T) levels of theory using the 6-31G(d), 6-311G(d,p), 6-311+G(2df,2p), and 6-311++G(2d,p) basis sets. The most stable configuration among the eight possible hfaox conformers corresponds to the (Z)-(s-cis,s-trans) configuration, while the highest energy (E)-(s-trans,s-cis) conformer was found at 15.26, 15.31, 14.34, 14.91, and 14.78 kcal/mol higher in energy at the HF, MP2, B3LYP, MP4SDQ, and CCSD(T) levels of theory, respectively, using the largest 6-311++G(2d,p) basis set. Calculated structures, relative stability, and bonding properties of the conformers are discussed with respect to computed electronic and spectroscopic properties, such as charge density distribution, harmonic vibrational frequencies, and NMR chemical shifts. From a methodological point of view, our results confirm the reliability of the integrated computational tool formed by the B3LYP density functional model. This model has subsequently been used to investigate the dehydration reactions of hfaox. Upon dehydration, hfaox could afford a number of isomeric CHNO species. All dehydration processes, except those yielding cyanic acid, are predicted to be endothermic. The most endothermic one is the dehydration reaction of the more stable (Z)-(s-cis,s-trans) conformer, 7, to formylnitrene, with the computed heat of reaction (Δ R H) being equal to 51.34 kcal/mol. On the other hand, the most exothermic dehydration process is the dehydration reaction of the (E)-(s-trans,s-cis) conformer, 14, to cyanic acid with the computed heat of reaction being equal to -26.16 kcal/mol at the B3LYP/6-311G(d,p) level of theory. The reaction pathway for the addition of water to fulminic acid is predicted to occur via an activation barrier of 68.18 kcal/mol at the B3LYP/6-31 IG(d,p) level. The interaction of Cu + ions with the CHNO isomers, as well as their precursor hfaox conformers, was also analyzed in the framework of DFT theory, illustrating that the Cu + ions show a higher affinity for the N donor atoms. Depending on the conformer, the computed interaction energies for the Cu-N, Cu-ON, and Cu-OC associations in the Cu(hfaox) + complexes were found in the range of 62.61-75.29, 44.75-57.43, and 38.84-58.46 kcal/mol, respectively. In summary, the calculations threw light on the bonding properties of the CHNO species, being the simplest model of the HN-CO peptide linkage to biologically important Cu + ions. Of particular interest is the prediction that Cu + ions catalyze the dehydration reactions of hfaox to form CHNO isomers and are involved in a novel reaction of the oxidation of organic nitriles with hydrogen peroxide to yield oximes, the latter process providing a novel synthetic route for oxime derivatives. The energetic and geometric profiles of these reactions were fully investigated in the framework of DFT theory, and their mechanisms are thoroughly discussed.
The computational investigations are carried out on the complexes of isothiocyanic acid (HNCS) and its derivatives with H2S through MP2/aug-cc-PVTZ//MP2/aug-cc-PVDZ level. Five, four, three and four structures are located on the potential energy surface of the HNCS‒H2S, HSCN‒ H2S, HCNS‒ H2S and HSNC‒H2S heterodimers, respectively. The calculated results reveal that the most stable heterodimers among all heterodimers obtained for the HNCS‒H2S, HSCN‒H2S, HCNS‒H2S and HSNC‒H2S systems belong to HSCN‒H2S system. Therefore, HSCN‒H2S system has a key role in the atmosphere.
We propose a scenario for the dynamic co-evolution of peptides and energy on the primitive Earth. From a multi component system consisting of hydrogen cyanide, several carbonyl compounds, ammonia, alkyl amine, carbonic anhydride, borate and isocyanic acid, we show that the reversibility of this system leads to several intermediate nitriles, that irreversibly evolve to alpha-amino acids and N-carbamoyl amino acids via selective catalytic processes. On the primitive Earth these N-carbamoyl amino acids combined with energetic molecules (NOx) may have been the core of a molecular engine producing peptides permanently and assuring their recycling and evolution. We present this molecular engine, a production example, and its various selectivities. The perspectives for such a dynamic approach to the emergence of peptides are evoked in the conclusion.
Abstract Since of all the tropical crops cassava ( Manihot esculenta ) provides the highest energy per hectare, its use as a replacement for maize (cereals) in animal feed is advocated in this review. However, the use of cassava poses a number of problems which have been grouped under three headings: 1. 1. Chemical factors. Cassava contains a cyanogenic glucoside, linamarin, which on hydrolysis yields hydrocyanic acid which is toxic to animals. In small doses, cyanide is detoxified to thiocyanate by means of the enzyme rhodanase, making use of methionine as the sulphur donor. This amino acid therefore becomes the first limiting factor in cassava feeds. Most of the cyanide can be eliminated by crushing or fermentation followed by heating. The detoxification product thiocyanate is a potent goitrogen. Moreover, the sugars in cassava may react with the ϵ-amino group of lysine in a Maillard reaction thereby making it unavailable and hence the second limiting amino acid. During the drying process on the floor, the chips could be infected by micro-organisms such as Aspergillus niger . 2. 2. Nutritional factors. Cassava contains very little protein and this is of poor quality so a good supplementary source of protein is needed. Soyabean contains little methionine and so its use may lead to reduced growth unless a methionine supplement is provided. Leaf protein concentrate appears more effective but fish meal is the best protein source. Supplementation with lysine is also suggested for maximum efficiency. Oils are also important, and palm oil is easily digestible, improves palatability and is readily metabolized. A combination of oil and molasses (or sugar) seems even more effective. Cassava may also affect the mineral balance resulting, for example, in parakeratosis in chicks, but this can be eliminated by the addition of zinc carbonate. 3. 3. Physical factors. Powdered starch produces ulcerogenic effects upon the gastric mucosa and so cassava-based feeds are best served as pellets. The advantages of pelleting are reviewed. The high fibre and ash content of cassava are not only deleterious but also limit the choice of other ingredients which are high in these components. With proper management cassava can be used as a substitute for maize in animal feed and this will have the double advantage of releasing the more nutritious maize for human consumption and of producing cheaper feed and possibly cheaper animal products in the tropics.
Abstract Nigerian nutritional ataxic neuropathy comprises panmyelopathy, bilateral optic atrophy, sensorineural deafness and polyneuropathy. In a third of the patients, mucocutaneous evidence of malnutrition is present. The disease occurs in high prevalence in the areas of Nigeria where cassava is most intensely cultivated. Cassava contains a cyanogenetic glycoside, from which hydrocyanic acid is released on hydrolysis. The sex incidence is equal. It is a disease of the poor who subsist entirely on culinary derivatives of cassava. It has a peak prevalence in the 4th to 6th decades. In 41% of 320 patients studied, a positive history that someone else in the household or family suffered from the disease was obtained. In familial cases, 50% are conjugal. There is biochemical evidence of increased exposure to cyanide in ataxic families. There is no evidence so far of a genetically determined predisposition to the disease. Field surveys in 2 villages in an endemic area, and one village in a non-endemic area, showed a positive correlation between the prevalence of the disease and consumption of cassava meals and biochemical evidence of chronic cyanide intoxication. The prevalence rate of the disease in the endemic foci is 18 to 26 per thousand of the population, with a peak prevalence rate of 80 per 1000 in the 6th decade. Cassava processors and farmers who grow and handle cassava may be at special risk. Goitre is not uncommon in patients and may be related to inhibition of iodine uptake by the thyroid due to high concentration of plasma thiocyanate (a detoxication product of cyanide). The epidemiological data support the hypothesis that in Nigerians, chronic cyanide intoxication of dietary origin is the most important factor in the aetiology of ataxic neuropathy. The main source of the cyanide is cassava.
Five species of small legume seeds (Ranger alfalfa, Medicago sativa; alsike clover, Trifolium hybridum; ladino clover, Trifolium repens; Kenland red clover, Trifolium pratense; and Viking birdsfoot trefoil, Lotus corniculatus ) with a graded moisture range approaching 6%, 9%, and 12% were fumiaged with methyl bromide and hydrocyanic acid in 100-cubic-foot gastight chambers. Exposure periods, dosages of fumigant applied, and temperatures during fumigation were varied. One-half of the seed samples received one fumigation; the others were fumigated twice. ::: ::: Under the conditions of these studies, percentages of germination of alsike clover seeds were reduced by exposure to hydrocyanic acid; seeds of the other species demonstrated tolerance to this fumigant. Germination of Viking birdsfoot trefoil seeds was not impaired by fumigation with methyl bromide, but reductions in percentages of germination were observed in tests with seeds of Ranger alfalfa, alsike clover, ladino clover, and Ken land red clover after fumigation with methyl bromide under some conditions. ::: ::: Differences between species in susceptibility of seeds to fumigation with methyl bromide and hydrocyanic acid was recognized by variations in percentages of germination ranging from complete tolerance of some species to economic reductions in germination of others. Where reductions in germination occurred after fumigation of seeds, variables probably of most importance in contributing to injury of seeds during fumigation were length of exposure to fumigant, dosages applied, moisture content of seeds, and repeat fumigations.
Mossbauer spectra of anhydrous ferricyanic acid, H3Fe(CN)6, and alkali metal ferricyanides, M3[Fe(CN)6]. xH2O (where M  Li, Na, Rb, Cs, NH4 and Ag), have been studied at room temperature. These compounds show a two line spectrum indicating definite quadrupole splitting (ΔEQ). The values of ΔEQ range from 0·20 to 0·76 mm/sec. The isomer shifts (δ) vary from 0·08 to 0·26 mm/sec. (relative to sodium nitroprusside dihydrate). The isomer shift shows generally a decreasing trend with the increase in the electronegativity of the substituent cation. It is suggested that the cations influence the π-acceptor property of the cyanide ligands. The s-electron density at the iron nucleus increases as the π-acceptor nature of the ligand increases. The quadrupole splitting data is also consistent with this interpretation. A linear relationship is observed between δ and ΔEQ. The isomer shift for H3Fe(CN)6 is comparatively high presumably due to the presence of intermolecular hydrogen bonding in this compound.
Abstract The direct and indirect determination of cyanides can be carried out with a silver iodide-based ion-selective electrode. The electrode measures only cyanide ions and does not respond to hydrocyanic acid. A detailed study of metal-cyanide complexes shows that the cadmium and zinc cyanide complexes can participate in the exchange reaction on the membrane surface, but that metal cyanide complexes of higher stability than silver dicyanide have no effect on the electrode. The cyanide-sensitive electrodes can be employed for continuously recording the cyanide content of effluents.
The potential of isocyanic acid as a fuel for a short-wavelength chemical laser has been investigated. The experiments were performed by carrying out reactions of F atoms with HNCO to obtain NCO radicals and with coreagents of the type RHn.to obtain R atoms. The NCO + R reactions occurred subsequently. The resulting chemiluminescence was observed to detect electronically excited NR* and other significantly emitting species. Eight coreagents, namely CH4, H20, PH3, NH3, HC1, HBr, SiH4 and B2H6, have been studied in this manner. The results indicate that the NCO radicals react with C, 0 and P atoms to generate the corresponding NR* species. Photon yields from these species have been determined. The CN(B X) photon yield was found to be the highest of all of these, however, the absolute value of the CN(B X) photon yield is low which may be due to the inefficiency of the C-atom production from the F + CH4 reaction. Research is being carried out to develop an efficient C-atom source.
Alkylation of the title compound (2) with alkyl halides in the presence of Et3N proceeded exclusively on the sulfur atom to give the S-alkyl-1, 3-oxazine derivatives. Acylation with acylchlorides took place regioselectively on the nitrogen atom, giving the N-acyl derivatives. 1, 3-Oxazine 2 was found to undergo cleavage of the ring into acetylketene and thiocyanic acid. Hence, treatment of 2 with alkyl halides in the presence of K2CO3gave alkyl thiocyanates ; treatment with active methylene compounds afforded γ-pyrone derivatives. N-Acyl derivatives of 2 also underwent thermal cleavage of the ring, leading to the corresponding acyl isothiocyanates.
The influence of sulfur included in fermented total mixed ration (FTMR) containing fresh cassava root on rumen characteristics, microbial protein synthesis, and blood metabolites in cattle was evaluated. Four Thai native beef cattle were randomly assigned according to a 2 × 2 factorial in a 4 × 4 Latin square design, and dietary treatments were as follows: factor A included a level of sulfur at 1% and 2% in total mixed ration, and factor B featured ensiling times at zero and 7 days. Digestibility of dry matter was increased when FTMR was supplemented with 2% sulfur. Blood thiocyanate increased by 69.5% when ensiling time was 7 days compared to no ensiling (p < 0.01). Bacterial populations were significantly different in the FTMR containing sulfur at 2% and 7 days of ensiling. Furthermore, microbial crude protein and efficiency of microbial protein synthesis were higher in the FTMR containing 2% sulfur and 7 days of ensiling (p < 0.01). Thus, high levels of hydrocyanic acid from fresh cassava root could be detoxified by a sulfur addition with an ensiling process to become nontoxic to cattle.
The application of pesticides1 such as fumigants and contact insecticides to post-harvest raw and processed foods is a common practice. Fumigants have been used for many years whereas the application of contact insecticides (protectants, sprays, aerosol vaporizers) for the control of stored-product insects is of relatively recent origin. Fumigants are applied to eliminate infestations already present while protectants, mostly admixed with grain, are used to prevent insect infestation from occurring during the storage period. Some of the common fumigants used are methyl bromide, ethylene dibromide, hydrocyanic acid, carbon tetrachloride, ethylene dichloride, and carbon disulphide. The most common protectants used are malathion and Pyrethrins plus piperonyl butoxide. Dried fruits, nuts, grains, and cereal products are subject to infestation by many species of insects and consequently in storage require some insecticidal treatment, whereas post-harvest residues of fresh fruits and vegetables are generally limited to quarantine treatments.
Abstract We have found that, while 2-oxetanone undergoes thermal decarboxylation at 350°C to give CO 2 and ethene, 2-azetidinone proceeds in two different modes at 550°C, giving isocyanic acid, ethene, ketene, hydrogen cyanide and carbon monoxide among the pyrolysis products. B3LYP/6-31G ** calculations were performed to investigate the two alternative cycloreversion pathways for the two compounds. Theoretical thermodynamic data predicted that decarboxylation of 2-oxetanone has among the lowest activation barrier (159 kJ mol −1 ) and free energy (Δ G =−183 kJ mol −1 ). While the cycloreversion to ethene can be classified as a concerted asynchronous process, natural bond orbital (NBO) analysis suggested that the cycloreversion to ketene is more asynchronous for 2-azetidinone than for 2-oxetanone.
Eleven 1,3,5-triazine derivatives were investigated by the use of a thermal-analysis techniques. These compounds showed a remarkable difference in pyrolytic behavior and decomposed thermally by a cleavage of the triazine ring and the liberation of water, isocyanic acid, and carbondioxide. The pyrolysis products were separated and identified by a gas chromatograph coupled to a mass spectrometer. All of the obtained information led to the proposal of a thermal degradation mechanism for the triazine derivatives, which is presented here. The main pyrolysis and fragmentation by electron impact mechanisms were classified into four categories, respectively.
Growing dogs were divided into three groups and were fed on nutritionally-balanced diets. Control dogs were fed on a rice diet, the cassava (gari) group ate a diet in which gari provided the carbohydrate source, while the rice + cyanide group consumed the rice diet to which hydrocyanic acid (equivalent to that present in gari) was added. Each group consumed its diet for 14 weeks, during which plasma thiocyanate concentration and total serum triiodothyronine (T3) were monitored. At the end of the experiment the concentrations of the plasma free amino acids phenylalanine and tyrosine, the thyroid weights and histology were determined. While plasma thiocyanate remained undetectable in control dogs, animals consuming both gari and rice + cyanide generated significant amounts. In the control dogs and the gari group, total serum T3 increased 40 and 38.8% respectively from the basal level by the end of the period (P less than 0.02). In contrast there was a decrease in T3 by 36% in the dogs fed on rice + cyanide (P less than 0.05). This group also showed significant thyroid enlargement and a histological picture consistent with parenchymatous goitre, whereas the gari group was essentially normal. The relatively low mean thyroid weight, the rise in total serum T3 level and the normal histological appearance of the gland indicate that dogs that consumed the gari diet were essentially normal with respect to their thyroid function, in spite of their high blood thiocyanate content. In contrast, dogs that consumed rice with cyanide suffered from hypothyroidism and goitre.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Eight Hevea species have been shown to be cyanogenic. ::: ::: ::: ::: They all liberated HCN following mechanical tissue injury. Infection of Hevea leaves with conidia of the plant pathogen Microcyclus ulei leads to a large reduction of hydrocyanic acid potential, while only small amounts of HCN are set free from the leaves into the atmosphere. HCN production by infected leaves follows a reproducible pattern with a maximum between 40 and 60 hours after infection. ::: ::: ::: ::: During the entire time of infection free HCN can be detected in the leaves. From leaves of susceptible clones high amounts of HCN are liberated whereas from resistant clones only very little HCN is released. In Hevea infections with M. ulei, cyanogenesis does not lead to defense of the fungal pathogen but impairment of the resistance reaction.
Pearl millet [Pennisetum glaucum (L.) R.Br.], commonly known as Bajra, is the fourth most important crop in India after rice, wheat and sorghum. Being highly nutritious especially in terms of energy (2900 kcal/kg), it is primarily used for human consumption mainly in Asia and Africa (Singh et al. 2014 ). Being free from major anti-nutrients, it is one of the cheapest sources of protein, iron and zinc among the cereals and the pulses (Rai et al. 2013; Anonymous 2015) . Besides being a nutrients rich crop, it is well known for its adaption to drought, low soil fertility and acidic soil (Khairwal and Yadav 2005) . Moreover, it is also able to yield more than any cereal crop with low or no fertilizer input. Currently, India is producing 9.60 million tonnes of pearl millet with a productivity of 11.61 q/ha (Anonymous 2015) . The five states namely, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana contribute about 92% of its total production in India. Although it is primarily grown as a food grain crop but it is also a major component of ruminant and poultry feed, especially in dry areas (Singh et al. 2014) . It is also a good forage crop because of lesser hydrocyanic acid content than sorghum, as its green fodder is rich in protein, calcium and phosphorus, which are essential for the strong bones. Despite its nutritional quality, the pearl millet consumption has declined by 73.4 and 71.8% in rural and urban areas, respectively (NRAA 2012) . Many factors like subsidized and cheaper availability of rice and wheat and an increase in per capita income can be held responsible for this decline but short storability of pearl millet flour is the major cause for its poor utilization by the people and in food industries too. Fast deterioration of pearl millet flour can be attributed to high fat content, containing high polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA), which make it more susceptible to rancidity due to lipolysis and subsequent oxidation of PUFA (Singh et al. 2014) . Linoleic acid is found as the major fatty acid (40.1-47.4% of the total fatty acids) in different pearl millet varieties. Moreover, few enzymes, which are essential in the metabolism of plants, remain active even after harvesting and lead to detrimental changes in quality attributes such as colour, flavour, texture and nutritional value of its products. Lipoxygenases (LOX; linoleate oxygen oxidoreductase; EC 1.13.11.12), the enzymes found in all forms of life, catalyze the oxidation of PUFA and lipids containing a cis,cis-1,4-pentadiene structure (Wennman et al. 2016 ). This reaction produces lipid hydroperoxides that decompose and form secondary oxidation products, which can react with chlorophylls, carotenoids, ascorbic acid, phenols, a-tocopherol, etc. and cause alteration of colour and organoleptic properties (Siedow 1991; Li et al. 2007; Zilic et al. 2010) . LOX has been found responsible for the generation of off-flavour due to its action on PUFA, especially on linoleic and linolenic acid, resulting in deterioration of flavour and quality (Dahuja and Madaan 2004; Wang et al. 2014; Mandal et al. 2014; Chen et al. 2016) . Pearl millet has the high activity of LOX, therefore, the present study was carried out to evaluate its physico-chemical and kinetic properties, which could help in understanding its role in foul smell generation vis-a-vis shelf life of flour.
Simple Summary: Feeding of fresh cassava root to animals is restricted because it contains hydrocyanic acid at a high level, which is the origin for poisoning. High levels of hydrocyanic acid from fresh cassava root could be detoxified by sulfur addition to become nontoxic to cattle. The addition of 2% sulfur in a fermented total mixed ration containing fresh cassava root and ensiling for 7 days could improve dry matter digestibility, efficiency of microbial protein synthesis, and concentrations of total volatile fatty acid, propionic acid, and blood thiocyanate.
The influence of sulfur included in fermented total mixed ration (FTMR) containing fresh cassava root on rumen characteristics, microbial protein synthesis, and blood metabolites in cattle was evaluated. Four Thai native beef cattle were randomly assigned according to a 2 × 2 factorial in a 4 × 4 Latin square design, and dietary treatments were as follows: factor A included a level of sulfur at 1% and 2% in total mixed ration, and factor B featured ensiling times at zero and 7 days. Digestibility of dry matter was increased when FTMR was supplemented with 2% sulfur. Blood thiocyanate increased by 69.5% when ensiling time was 7 days compared to no ensiling (p < 0.01). Bacterial populations were significantly different in the FTMR containing sulfur at 2% and 7 days of ensiling. Furthermore, microbial crude protein and efficiency of microbial protein synthesis were higher in the FTMR containing 2% sulfur and 7 days of ensiling (p < 0.01). Thus, high levels of hydrocyanic acid from fresh cassava root could be detoxified by a sulfur addition with an ensiling process to become nontoxic to cattle.
Cassava root is the main carbohydrate source produced for ruminant consumption in the tropical zone, particularly Thailand. The starchy root is produced generally for human consumption or as a carbohydrate source for animal livestock feed [1] . Fresh cassava root as an energy supplement is beneficial in ruminant diets because of its low price and reduced processing, as compared to cassava chips, as well as its convenience for the farmer [2] . Moreover, the cassava chips product has problems in the rainy season for its sun-drying process. However, feeding of fresh cassava root to animals is restricted because it contains hydrocyanic acid (HCN) at a high level, which is the origin for poisoning. Fresh cassava root contains around 90-114 mg/kg of HCN [3, 4] .
Growing dogs were divided into three groups and were fed on nutritionally-balanced diets. Control dogs were fed on a rice diet, the cassava (gari) group ate a diet in which gari provided the carbohydrate source, while the rice +cyanide group consumed the rice diet to which hydrocyanic acid (equivalent to that present in gari) was added. Each group consumed its diet for 14 weeks, during which plasma thiocyanate concentration and total serum triiodothyronine (T3) were monitored. At the end of the experiment the concentrations of the plasma free amino acids phenylalanine and tyrosine, the thyroid weights and histology were determined. While plasma thiocyanate remained undetectable in control dogs, animals consuming both gari and rice +cyanide generated significant amounts. In the control dogs and the gari group, total serum T, increased 40 and 38.8 % respectively from the basal level by the end of the period (P < 0.02). In contrast there was a decrease in T, by 36 % in the dogs fed on rice + cyanide (P < 0.05).
The DPN-specific isocitrate dehydrogenase of pig heart is totally and irreversibly inactivated by 0.05 M potassium cyanate at pH 7.4 A plot of the rate constant versus cyanate concentration is not linear, but rather exhibits saturation kinetics, implying that cyanate may bind to the enzyme to give an enzyme-cyanate complex (K equal 0.125 M) prior to the covalent reaction. In the presence of manganous ion the addition of isocitrate protects the enzyme against cyanate inactivation, indicating that chemical modification occurs in the active site region of the enzyme. The dependence of the decrease of the rate constant for inactivation on the isocitrate concentration yields a dissociation constant for the enzyme-manganese-isocitrate complex which agrees with the Michaelis constant. The allosteric activator ADP, which lowers the Michaelis constant for isocitrate, does not itself significantly affect the cyanate reaction; however, it strikingly enhances the protection by isocitrate. The addition of the chelator EDTA essentially prevents protection by isocitrate and manganous ion, demonstrating the importance of the metal ion in this process. The substrate alpha-ketoglutarate and the coenzymes DPN and DPNH do not significantly affect the rate of modification of the enzymes by cyanate. Incubation of isocitrate dehydrogenase with 14C-labeled potassium cyanate leads to the incorporation of approximately 1 mol of radioactive cyanate per peptide chain concomitant with inactivation. Analysis of acid hydrolysates of the radioactive enzyme reveals that lysyl residues are the sole amino acids modified. These results suggest that cyanate, or isocyanic acid, may bind to the active site of this enzyme as an analogue of carbon dioxide and carbamylate a lysyl residue at the active site.
Atmospheric amides have primary and secondary sources and are present in ambient air at low pptv levels. To better assess the fate of amides in the atmosphere, the room temperature (298 ± 3 K) rate coefficients of five different amides with OH radicals were determined in a 1 m(3) smog chamber using online proton-transfer-reaction mass spectrometry (PTR-MS). Formamide, the simplest amide, has a rate coefficient of (4.44 ± 0.46) × 10(-12) cm(3) molec(-1) s(-1) against OH, translating to an atmospheric lifetime of ∼1 day. N-methylformamide, N-methylacetamide and propanamide, alkyl versions of formamide, have rate coefficients of (10.1 ± 0.6) × 10(-12), (5.42 ± 0.19) × 10(-12), and (1.78 ± 0.43) × 10(-12) cm(3) molec(-1) s(-1), respectively. Acetamide was also investigated, but due to its slow oxidation kinetics, we report a range of (0.4-1.1) × 10(-12) cm(3) molec(-1) s(-1) for its rate coefficient with OH radicals. Oxidation products were monitored and quantified and their time traces were fitted using a simple kinetic box model. To further probe the mechanism, ab initio calculations are used to identify the initial radical products of the amide reactions with OH. Our results indicate that N-H abstractions are negligible in all cases, in contrast to what is predicted by structure-activity relationships. Instead, the reactions proceed via C-H abstraction from alkyl groups and from formyl C(O)-H bonds when available. The latter process leads to radicals that can readily react with O2 to form isocyanates, explaining the detection of toxic compounds such as isocyanic acid (HNCO) and methyl isocyanate (CH3NCO). These contaminants of significant interest are primary oxidation products in the photochemical oxidation of formamide and N-methylformamide, respectively.
Abstract The thermal decomposition of urea can yield a wide variety of products; apart from ammonia and isocyanic acid, addition compounds of higher molecular mass may appear. In order to detect their presence in exhaust gases from a selective catalytic reduction (SCR) process using urea as a reducing agent, a chromatographic method was developed. The chromatographic separation is performed on an anion-exchange column using a phosphate buffer (pH 7) as eluent and UV detection at 190 nm. The method allows the simultaneous determination of neutral compounds (urea, biuret, melamine, ammeline) and of anions (cyanurate, isocyanate, acetate, formate, nitrite, nitrate, etc.). The value of the method for optimizing urea-SCR process design is illustrated.
Abstract Two sets of 48 cassava plants, harvested at three different times, were processed using one of the traditional methods to determine the effectiveness of hydrocyanic acid reduction to innocuous levels in the cassava products ‘gari’ and ‘lafun’. Dry matter content of the cassava was 37·6 %; this changed significantly with the stages of processing to 84·5 % in ‘gari’. This change was due mainly to pressing and roasting. Starch content remained constant during ‘gari’ processing. Hydrocyanic acid was significantly reduced from an initial concentration of 90·1 mg/kg fresh grated pulp to 25·8 mg/kg in ‘gari’. The fermentation step was found to be most effective in the reduction. Dry matter content during ‘lafun’ processing changed from 39·3 % to 86·5 % due mainly to sun drying for 96 h. Hydrocyanic acid was significantly reduced from 165·5 mg/kg in fresh grated pulp to 19·6 mg/kg in ‘lafun’. Soaking in static water was responsible for three-quarters of the decrease in hydrocyanic acid.
Dr. J. Collins Browne, a British army surgeon in India, invented a secret remedy for cholera-infected patients in the fifth decade of the 19th century. After his resignation from the army, the formula was given to a pharmacist in London for the purpose of manufacture and marketing as a patented medicine named Chlorodyne. Chlorodyne was well-accepted as paregoric for several decades. The formula of Chlorodyne was adopted in the 3rd Revision of the British Pharmacopoeia (1885) as "Compound Tincture of Chloroform and Morphine." In 1906, the 3rd Revision of Japanese Pharmacopoeia listed "Compound Tincture and Morphine" according to the formula of the 4th Revision of British Pharmacopoeia (1898). References written in 1870 and 1873 recorded the importation of Chlorodyne to Japan. In 1871, Dr. Jyun Matsumoto, Chief Military Surgeon Major General advised the manufacturers of traditional medicines to produce patented medicines to spread in western countries. Preparations of formula seeming to resemble Chlorodyne was named "Shinyaku" and were marketed from 1872. The name Shinyaku represented a medicine of marvellous efficacy, because the word split, Shin and Yaku, means "divine or almighty" and "medicine," respectively. Although the orginal formula of Shinyaku was not preserved, modifications of the formula were made to meet legal restrictions over the change of time. Needless to say, Morphine hydrochloride, Diluted hydrocyanic acid and tincture of Indian hemp were replaced with other ingredients to assure safety and lately Chloroform deleted from the formula as well. Shinyaku enjoyed good sales for a long time owing to its efficacy of restorative and refrigerant.
We measured isocyanic acid (HNCO) in laboratory biomass fires at levels up to 600 parts per billion by volume (ppbv), demonstrating that it has a significant source from pyrolysis/combustion of biomass. We also measured HNCO at mixing ratios up to 200 pptv (parts-per-trillion by volume) in ambient air in urban Los Angeles, CA, and in Boulder, CO, during the recent 2010 Fourmile Canyon fire. Further, our measurements of aqueous solubility show that HNCO is highly soluble, as it dissociates at physiological pH. Exposure levels > 1 ppbv provide a direct source of isocyanic acid and cyanate ion (NCO-) to humans at levels that have recognized health effects: atherosclerosis, cataracts, and rheumatoid arthritis, through the mechanism of protein carbamylation. In addition to the wildland fire and urban sources, we observed HNCO in tobacco smoke, HNCO has been reported from the low-temperature combustion of coal, and as a by-product of urea-selective catalytic reduction (SCR) systems that are being phased-in to control on-road diesel NOx emissions in the United States and the European Union. Given the current levels of exposure in populations that burn biomass or use tobacco, the expected growth in biomass burning emissions with warmer, drier regional climates, and planned increase in diesel SCR controls, it is imperative that we understand the extent and effects of this HNCO exposure.
FIELD: organic chemistry, chemical technology, biochemistry. SUBSTANCE: method for preparing amide from acrylonitrile involves chemical treatment of acrylonitrile-containing composition followed by effect on indicated acrylonitrile with nitrile hydratase. After chemical treatment the concentration of hydrocyanic acid in acrylonitrile-containing composition is reduced to 3 ppm or less. Chemical treatment can involve the process for conversion of hydrocyanic acid to metal chelate, contacting with ion-exchange resin or treatment under alkaline conditions. In particular case, method involves nitrile hydratase obtained from Rhodococcus rhodochrous. Method provides effective inhibition of deactivation of nitrile hydratase due to reducing the concentration of hydrocyanic acid in acrylonitrile-containing composition. This provides reducing enzyme amount required for carrying out the reaction. EFFECT: improved preparing method. 7 cl, 3 tbl, 7 ex
Abstract Samples of Termitomyces robustus, T. clypeatus and Pleurotus tuber-regium were analysed for their nutrient and toxic substances. The Termitomyces spp. contained as much as 31% proteins and about 32% carbohydrates, of which at least 26% were reducing sugars. Pleurotus tuber-regium contained 14·6% protein and 18·6% carbohydrates, of which only about 2·9% were reducing sugars. There was little difference in their crude fibre and ash content, while the fat content of T. robustus was a little higher than those of the other samples. The ascorbic acid content of each of the Termitomyces spp. (10 mg% and 14·3 mg%) was much higher than that of Pleurotus sp. (3·3 mg%). All the mushroom samples were low in hydrocyanic acid (HCN) and oxalate contents.
1. ::: ::: Ferrocenyl(triphenylphosphine)gold and butyl(triphenylphosphine)gold have been prepared. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: Ferrocenyl(triphenylphosphine)gold forms ferrocene and complexes with triphenylphosphine of salts of monovalent gold by the action of hydrochloric, hydriodic and hydrocyanic acids. Bromoferrocene and bromo(triphenylphosphine)gold are formed by the action of bromine.
Hydroxynitrile lyases (HNLs) catalyze the cleavage of cyanohydrins to yield hydrocyanic acid (HCN) and the respective carbonyl compound and are key enzymes in the process of cyanogenesis in plants. In organic syntheses, HNLs are used as biocatalysts for the formation of enantiopure cyanohydrins. We determined the structure of the recently identified, R-selective HNL from Arabidopsis thaliana (AtHNL) at a crystallographic resolution of 2.5 A. The structure exhibits an α/β-hydrolase fold, very similar to the homologous, but S-selective, HNL from Hevea brasiliensis (HbHNL). The similarities also extend to the active sites of these enzymes, with a Ser-His-Asp catalytic triad present in all three cases. In order to elucidate the mode of substrate binding and to understand the unexpected opposite enantioselectivity of AtHNL, complexes of the enzyme with both (R)- and (S)-mandelonitrile were modeled using molecular docking simulations. Compared to the complex of HbHNL with (S)-mandelonitrile, the calculations produced an approximate mirror image binding mode of the substrate with the phenyl rings located at very similar positions, but with the cyano groups pointing in opposite directions. A catalytic mechanism for AtHNL is proposed, in which His236 from the catalytic triad acts as a general base and the emerging negative charge on the cyano group is stabilized by main-chain amide groups and an α-helix dipole very similar to α/β-hydrolases. This mechanistic proposal is additionally supported by mutagenesis studies.
A new thiocyanic acid-free ruthenium sensitizer, CYC-B29, containing two unsymmetrical ancillary ligands, was synthesized, and its three diastereoisomers CYC-B29-CC, CYC-B29-TT, and CYC-B29-CT with significantly different optical, electronic, and electrochemical properties were carefully separated. CYC-B29-TT with the smallest size has the strongest absorption coefficient of the MLCT band, the shortest λmax, the lowest highest occupied molecular orbital level and the highest dye loading. Therefore, dye-sensitized solar cell based on CYC-B29-TT has the highest efficiency, which is two times higher than that of CYC-B29-CC-sensitized device and 10% higher than that of N719-based cell. Time-dependent density functional theory-calculated transition bands for the three isomers are not identical, and only CYC-B29-TT has the calculated transition bands close to the experimental absorption profile. Although the calculated transition bands for CYC-B29-CC and CYC-B29-CT are not consistent with the experimental data,...
OH radicals generated in the pulse radiolysis of N2O-saturated water react with formamide (by H-abstraction) and with cyanide (by addition and rearrangement) to give the same radicals, the main radical being the ·CONH2 radical 1 (85–95%), the other most likely being the HC(O)NH· radical 2 (5–15%). Quantum-chemical calculations support the preferred formation of 1 from formamide as well as from cyanide. Radical 1 reduces tetranitromethane (TNM) to the nitroform anion (2.8 × 108 dm3 mol−1 s−1). In the presence of oxygen, it rapidly adds oxygen (2.7 × 109 dm3 mol−1 s−1) to give the corresponding peroxyl radical ·OOCONH2 (3) which absorbs more strongly in the wavelength region 250–400 nm than radical 1 [e(320 nm) ≈ 180 dm3 mol−1 cm−1]. Peroxyl radical 3 deprotonates in basic solution (pKa ≈ 9.6), and its anion rapidly eliminates O2·− (106 s−1) to give cyanic acid. Product studies under γ-radiolysis conditions show that in the absence of O2 less than half of radical 1 decays by disproportionation to produce cyanate and formamide. In basic solution and in the presence of O2, the G values of cyanate and H2O2 confirm that all of the peroxyl radical 3 decays by O2·−-elimination.
Abstract The solvent extraction behaviour of thiocyanic acid with isobutyl methyl ketone and xylene as solvents is described. In the ketone system the thiocyanic acid is solvated in the organic phase to give a complex with a proposed composition of HSCN. 2IBMK. Deviations from ideal behaviour, which can be attributed to variations in the activity coefficient of the acid in the aqueous phase, are shown.
Abstract In the north west Indo-Gangetic Plain (N.W.IGP), large scale post-harvest paddy residue fires occur every year during the months of October–November. This anthropogenic perturbation causes contamination of the atmospheric environment with adverse impacts on regional air quality posing health risks for the population exposed to high concentrations of carcinogens such as benzene and toxic VOCs such as isocyanic acid. These gases and carbon monoxide are known to be emitted from biomass fires along with acetonitrile. Yet no long-term in-situ measurements quantifying the impact of this activity have been carried out in the N.W. IGP. Using high quality continuous online in-situ measurements of these gases at a strategic downwind site over a three year period from 2012 to 2014, we demonstrate the strong impact of this anthropogenic emission activity on ambient concentrations of these gases. In contrast to the pre-paddy harvest period, excellent correlation of benzenoids, isocyanic acid and CO with acetonitrile (a biomass burning chemical tracer); (r ≥ 0.82) and distinct VOC/acetonitrile emission ratios were observed for the post-paddy harvest period which was also characterized by high ambient concentrations of these species. The average concentrations of acetonitrile (1.62 ± 0.18 ppb), benzene (2.51 ± 0.28 ppb), toluene (3.72 ± 0.41 ppb), C8-aromatics (2.88 ± 0.30 ppb), C9-aromatics (1.55 ± 0.19 ppb) and CO (552 ± 113 ppb) in the post-paddy harvest periods were about 1.5 times higher than the annual average concentrations. For isocyanic acid, a compound with both primary and secondary sources, the concentration in the post-paddy harvest period was 0.97 ± 0.17 ppb. The annual average concentrations of benzene, a class A carcinogen, exceeded the annual exposure limit of 1.6 ppb at NTP mandated by the National Ambient Air Quality Standard of India (NAAQS). We show that mitigating the post-harvest paddy residue fires can lower the annual average concentration of benzene and ensure compliance with the NAAQS. Calculations of excessive lifetime cancer risk due to benzene amount to 25 and 10 per million inhabitants for children and adults, respectively, exceeding the USEPA threshold of 1 per million inhabitants. Annual exposure to isocyanic acid was close to 1 ppb, the concentration considered to be sufficient to enhance risks for cardiovascular diseases and cataracts. This study makes a case for urgent mitigation of post-harvest paddy residue fires as the unknown synergistic effect of multi-pollutant exposure due to emissions from this anthropogenic source may be posing grave health risks to the population of the N.W. IGP.
Recent progresses in manufacture or synthesis of syngas,synthetic petroleum,higher hydrocarbons (mainly ethylene),methanol,formaldehyde,benzene,acetic acid,methyl acetate, acetaldehyde,ethanol,hydrocyanic acid,acetylene,carbon fiber,naphthalene and formic acid from methane are reviewed
Hydrocyanic acid is a by 2product of acrylonitrile plant.Integrated application of hydrocyanic acid can increase economic benefit of enterprises.This paper discusses the commercialized production methods of several chemicals using hydrocyanic acid as raw material.
Hydroxynitrile lyases (HNLs) catalyze the cleavage of cyanohydrins into the corresponding carbonyl compound and hydrocyanic acid (Scheme 1). In plants, the HNL-catalyzed reaction is part of a defense mechanism against herbivores and microorganisms. [1] Since the natural HNL substrates are small and often achiral cyanohydrins (e.g., acetone cyanohydrin), the development of enantioselectivity has not been the subject of evolutionary pressure. Nevertheless, most HNLs show pronounced enantioselectivity when exposed to non-natural chiral substrates. Thus, the stereoselective CÀC-bond formation by the HNL-catalyzed addition of HCN to aldehydes or prochiral ketones (i.e., the reverse of the biological reaction) constitutes an industrially exploited route to produce enantiopure cyanohydrins as building blocks for the synthesis of pharmaceuticals and agrochemicals. [2] HNLs form a diverse group of enzymes, which appear to have evolved through convergent evolution. [2d, 3] To date, at least five different enzyme classes have been identified: the FAD-dependent (R)-HNLs from various Rosaceae being related to glucose-methanol-choline oxidoreductases;
[4] the R-selective enzyme from Linum usitatissimum showing homology to zincdependent alcohol-dehydrogenases; [5] the serine-carboxypeptidase-like (S)-HNL from Sorghum bicolor; [6] the S-selective enzymes from Hevea brasiliensis (para rubber tree, HbHNL), [7] from Manihot esculenta (cassava, MeHNL) [8] and from Baliospermum montanum, [9] exhibiting an a/b-hydrolase fold; [10] and most recently two HNLs from endophytic bacteria showing similarities to members of the cupin superfamily of proteins. [11] HbHNL and MeHNL are among the best characterized HNLs. They are so similar in sequence (77 % identity), 3D structure Hydroxynitrile lyases (HNLs) catalyze the cleavage of cyanohydrins to yield hydrocyanic acid (HCN) and the respective carbonyl compound and are key enzymes in the process of cyanogenesis in plants. In organic syntheses, HNLs are used as biocatalysts for the formation of enantiopure cyanohydrins. We determined the structure of the recently identified, R-selective HNL from Arabidopsis thaliana (AtHNL) at a crystallographic resolution of 2.5 . The structure exhibits an a/b-hydrolase fold, very similar to the homologous, but S-selective, HNL from Hevea brasiliensis (HbHNL). The similarities also extend to the active sites of these enzymes, with a Ser-His-Asp catalytic triad present in all three cases. In order to elucidate the mode of substrate binding and to understand the unexpected opposite enantioselectivity of AtHNL, complexes of the enzyme with both (R)-and (S)-mandelonitrile were modeled using molecular docking simulations. Compared to the complex of HbHNL with (S)-mandelonitrile, the calculations produced an approximate mirror image binding mode of the substrate with the phenyl rings located at very similar positions, but with the cyano groups pointing in opposite directions. A catalytic mechanism for AtHNL is proposed, in which His236 from the catalytic triad acts as a general base and the emerging negative charge on the cyano group is stabilized by main-chain amide groups and an a-helix dipole very similar to a/b-hydrolases. This mechanistic proposal is additionally supported by mutagenesis studies.
Tissue ablation with mid-infrared irradiation tuned to collagen vibrational modes results in minimal collateral damage. The hypothesis for this effect includes selective scission of protein molecules and excitation of surrounding water molecules, with the scission process currently favored. In this article, we describe the postablation infrared spectral decay kinetics in a model collagen-like peptide (Pro-Pro-Gly)(10). We find that the decay is exponential with different decay times for other, simpler dipeptides. Furthermore, we find that collagen-like polypeptides, such as (Pro-Pro-Gly)(10), show multiple decay times, indicating multiple scission locations and cross-linking to form longer chain molecules. In combination with data from high-resolution mass spectrometry, we interpret these products to result from the generation of reactive intermediates, such as free radicals, cyanate ions, and isocyanic acid, which can form cross-links and protein adducts. Our results lead to a more complete explanation of the reduced collateral damage resulting from infrared laser irradiation through a mechanism involving cross-linking in which collagen-like molecules form a network of cross-linked fibers.
Abstract In order to meet the stricter NOx and particulate emission limits for commercial vehicles, the selective catalytic reduction (SCR) with urea is currently seen having the highest potential. The conversion of urea into ammonia and carbon dioxide consists of two consecutive reactions, in which isocyanic acid is an intermediate that is hydrolyzed over TiO2. The intrinsic kinetics and the surface chemistry for this reaction are explored. Up to a temperature of 132 °C the reaction was in the intrinsic kinetic regime (EA = 73 kJ/mol), while at higher temperatures the reaction was limited by pore and external diffusion constraints, respectively. In the presence of NO, NH3 and NO2, the catalytic activity was negatively influenced, increasing in severity in the sequence mentioned indicating that nitrates formed from NO2 were most effective in blocking cations and anions of TiO2. IR spectroscopy indicates that dissociative adsorption of HNCO on TiO2 forms Ti–N C O and hydrogen bonded OH species. In the presence of water, isocyanic acid was so rapidly hydrolyzed that only adsorbed ammonia was observed on the catalyst surface. The presence of NO, NH3 and NO2 retards hydrolysis leading to the appearance of isocyanate species on the surface.
Abstract This study aims to develop HPLC-FLD method and verify its applicability for Ethyl Carbamate (EC) determination in Chinese spirits, and to investigate the mechanism for EC generation and its influencing factors. HPLC-FLD with prior derivatization with 9-xanthydrol was used for the EC detection. Optimal reaction condition and the parameters usually tested in the method validation were identified and evaluated. Most appropriate mobile phase is sodium acetate solution with pH value at 7.2. Optimal alcohol strength and reaction time for derivatization are 38–42% and 50 min respectively. Good linearity was obtained with correlation coefficient greater than 0.9998; limit of detection and quantitation were 1.82 and 5.34 μg/L; recovery rate was 96.67% (±6.59%), and method precision was less than 5% (RSD). No significant difference was found in EC determination measured by HPLC-FLD and GC/MS (p > 0.05) indicating HPLC-FLD may be a suitable alternative to GC/MS with greater convenience and lower cost. The average EC content in the Chinese spirit was 39.3 μg/L (ND. to 79.1 μg/L, n = 90), and EC was mainly produced during storage. Raw material profile, brewing time, and storage time and temperature were suggested as main factors influencing EC content; moreover, lowering the storage temperature can effectively reduce EC production. Hydrocyanic acid was concluded as the EC precursor in Chinese spirits. A preliminary multiple regression model based on the storage temperature and time was produced to forecast the EC content in Chinese spirits, and this could be further developed in future research including more influencing factors.
The invention belongs to the field of chemical engineering and relates to a preparation method of cheap and environmentally friendly D, L-2- hydroxyl-4-methylthio butyric acid. According to the method, the Andrussow method is adopted to prepare hydrocyanic acid gas mixture, and the hydrocyanic acid gas mixture and methylthio propionaldehyde react fully to obtain 2- hydroxyl-4-methylthio butyronitrile system under the catalytic action of alkali; the 2- hydroxyl-4-methylthio butyronitrile system reacts with mineral acid, and is hydrolyzed to obtain a 2- hydroxyl-4-methylthio butyric acid reaction solution, the reaction solution is neutralized via alkali, methyl tertiary butyl ether is added to remove water via distillation, solid-liquid separation is performed on the residuum, the filtrate is steamed to obtain methyl tertiary butyl ether, and the residuum is high-purity 2- hydroxyl-4-methylthio butyric acid. The D, L-2- hydroxyl-4-methylthio butyric acid prepared through the method disclosed by the invention is high in purity and monomer content, the production and operation are simple, the equipment requirement is low, the production cost is low, the environmental protection is realized, and the excellent industrialized production value is achieved.
Abstract The chromatographic properties of eight solvents have been determined. The solvents were n -butanol-water-perchloric acid, which was non-complexing, and seven complexing solvents based on n -butanol-water-thiocyanic acid. The addition of one or other of pyridine, aniline or quinoline to the thiocyanic acid solution resulted in solvents which were buffered in the range pH 3 to pH 8. An analysis of variance carried out on the results enabled criteria of complexing properties to be established. It was found that these properties for the 38 ions tested were related to their electronic structure.
The bean thrips ( Heliothrips fasciatus Perg.) breeds freely on a common weed, ( Lactuca sp.) in California. When the weeds die the insect migrates to other plants, a common habit in autumn being congregating on citrus trees in which they remain inactive throughout the winter similar to certain adult coccinellidae. Experiments on packed fruit with hydrocyanic acid showed that eradication was possible in a gas tight enclosure with a dosage of ⅔ ounce of sodium cyanide to the hundred cubic feet for 35 minutes. This method has since been widely used commercially. Data is presented showing that such factors as temperature of the washing solution, interval between packing and fumigation, presence of an artificial wax covering, etc., influence fruit damage. The greater susceptibility of oranges over lemons to pitting is indicated as due in large part to morphological differences of the two fruits.
The leading after-treatment technology for NOx removal process in Diesel engines for stationary and mobile applications is the selective catalytic reduction of oxides of nitrogen [NOx] by ammonia [NH3]. A novel non-thermal plasma electrode with a needle array in a dielectric barrier discharge reactor, powered by a high frequency neon transformer, is used for the thermal decomposition of solid urea [(NH2)CO(NH2)] to produce ammonia. The thermolysis of urea produces iso-cyanic acid [HNCO] as a byproduct, besides ammonia, which can react with water in the gas phase, thus giving carbon dioxide and more ammonia. The presence of water fed before and/or after the plasma reactor was studied to assess its effect on the amount of produced ammonia. Results clearly showed that water fed to the entrance of the reactor can efficiently promote the reaction of iso-cyanic acid to produce ammonia and this result can be improved when air is used as carrier gas for 115 V of input voltage to a neon transformer and with a gas flow rate of 4 L/min.
Abstract A pot experiment was conducted to determine the chromium (VI) accumulation in various plant parts supplied in soil in the form of potassium dichromate (0–4 × 10 −3 g/kg soil) and its toxicological effects on the nutritive value of forage sorghum along with advancement of crop maturity. Nutritive value was measured in terms of various quality parameters like protein, hydrocyanic acid (HCN) content, structural carbohydrates and in vitro dry matter digestibility (IVDMD). While fibre components and HCN content increased, protein content and IVDMD decreased with increasing Cr levels. Chromium accumulated in various plant parts followed the order – roots > shoots > leaves. It is concluded that Cr (VI) at higher doses adversely affects the nutritive value of forage sorghum ( Sorghum bicolor L.).
The nutrient composition and potential productivity of cassava (Manihot esculenta Crantz) leaves are examined, and their usefulness as a protein supplement in animal nutrition in the tropics is reviewed. On average, meal prepared from cassava leaves contains (on a dry matter basis) 210 g kg−1 crude protein, 250 g kg−1 acid detergent fibre, 85 g kg−1 ash, 14.5 g kg−1 calcium and 4.5 g kg−1 phosphorus. Cassava leaf protein is well balanced, except for a deficiency of sulphur-containing amino acids. The presence of hydrocyanic acid and tannins is considered, but a leaf meal with low levels of these anti-nutritional factors may be prepared using simple processing techniques. The most immediate prospects for the use of cassava leaf products are in the following areas: (i) low level inclusion of leaf meal in feed formulations for monogastric animals, and (ii) fresh forage as a protein supplement to low-quality roughages in ruminant feeding. Relevant future research needs are also identified.
The invention discloses a method for coproducing biurea and hydroxylamine sulfate. The method comprises the following steps: adding nitrourea, sulfuric acid and a catalyst into a hydrogenation reaction kettle, carrying out reaction while controlling the material proportion, reaction temperature and reaction pressure so as to generate hydroxylamine salt and aminourea salt, carrying out centrifugal separation to remove the catalyst, neutralizing until the system has higher acidity than cyanic acid, and slowly and dropwisely adding a cyanate-containing solution, wherein the aminourea salt and cyanate directly react to generate the solid biurea in the acidic system, and the hydroxylamine salt is converted into hydroxylamine sulfate in the presence of sulfuric acid. The biurea can be used for producing an ADC (azodicarbonamide) foaming agent; and the hydroxylamine sulfate can be used as an analytical reagent and reducer, and can also be used in organic synthesis. The nitrourea is hydrogenated to synthesize the hydroxylamine salt and aminourea salt, and the cyanate is directly added without separating the intermediate product to coproduce the solid biurea and hydroxylamine sulfate, thereby maximizing the benefits.
Isocyanic acid (ICA) in vapour phase has been reported to be of unstable nature, making the occupational hygienic relevance of ICA questionable. The stability of pure ICA in clean air at different humidity conditions was investigated by Fourier transform-infrared spectrometric (FT-IR) measurements. Furthermore, the stability of ICA in a complex atmosphere representative thermal degradation hot-work procedures were examined by performing parallel measurements by proton transfer reaction-mass spectrometric (PTR-MS) instrumentation and off-line denuder air sampling using di-n-butylamine (as a derivatization agent prior to liquid chromatography mass spectrometric (LC-MS) determination). The apparent half-life of ICA in pure ICA atmospheres was 16 to 4 hours at absolute humidity (AH) in the range 4.2 to 14.6 g m−3, respectively. In a complex atmosphere at an initial AH of 9.6 g m−3 the apparent half-life of ICA was 8 hours, as measured with the denuder method. Thus, thermally formed ICA is to be considered as a potential occupational hazard with regard to inhalation. The generation pattern of ICA formed during controlled gradient (100–540 °C) thermal decomposition of different polymers in the presence of air was examined by parallel PTR-MS and denuder air sampling. According to measurement by denuder sampling ICA was the dominant aliphatic isocyanate formed during the thermal decomposition of all polymers. The real-time measurements of the decomposed polymers revealed different ICA generation patterns, with initial appearance of thermally released ICA in the temperature range 200–260 °C. The PTR-MS ICA measurements was however affected by mass overlap from other decomposition products at m/z 44, illustrated by a [ICA]Denuder/[ICA]PTR-MS ratio ranging from 0.04 to 0.90. These findings limits the potential use of PTR-MS for real time measurements of thermally released ICA in field, suggesting parallel sampling with short-term sequential off-line methodology.
Field cultures of Tribolium castaneum (Herbst) and T. confusum Jacquelin duVal were obtained from various flour and feed mills and warehouses in the United States, and their relative susceptibility to fumigation with ethylene diibromide, hydrocyanic acid (HCN), and methyl bromide was compared with laboratory strains which had a history of no insecticidal treatments for a period of 10–15 years. Of 10 field-collected cultures of T. castaneum , 9 showed no evidence of increased tolerance when fumigated with ethylene dibromide, HCN, or methyl bromide. One culture of T. castaneum from Minneapolis, Minn., was significantly more difficult to kill with HCN than the University of California, Riverside, laboratory culture, but not with ethylene dibromide or methyl bromide. Of 7 field-collected cultures of T. confusum , 6 showed no evidence of increased tolerance when fumigated with ethylene dibromide, HCN, or methyl bromide. One culture of T. confusum from Buffalo, N. Y., was significantly more difficult to kill with ethylene dibromide and HCN than the University of California, Riverside, laboratory culture but not with methyl bromide.
Source-sink relations in cassava were investigated following reciprocal grafting among three cultivars of different yield groups. Both rootstock and scion had significant effects on net assimilation rate and tuber yield, demonstrating that both sink capacity and source activity are important in achieving maximum tuber yield. The scion had no effect on tuber dry matter percentage and starch content of the grafts but the hydrocyanic acid content of the tuber was significantly influenced by both rootstock and scion.
The positive correlation found in New Zealand between quality of white clover and its hydrocyanic acid content, could not be confirmed for Dutch white clover in the Netherlands. HCN occurred bound to an incompletely identified glucoside. As Weevers and Treub et al. found the glucoside and HCN contents varying in other plants during the day, the author tried to find out whether similar variations occur in the 1ICN content of white clover. The bromometric method of Schulek was modified so that 1ICN was titrable at a definitely alkaline pH (instead of acid or neutral). The experimental plants were grown under close control: constant illumination, and, within limits, usually constant temperature and air humidity. HCN in Dutch and New Zealand white clover increased rather sharply after sunrise, reaching a maximum rather soon (e.g. after 4 h), then decreasing. This variation only occurred if the weather conditions of the successive days were much alike. Otherwise it was disturbed, often with a second maximum after noon. A maximum must be assumed for the night also. At least 50 leaves must be analysed. These and other results seemed sufficient to start breeding research on HCN content in the Netherlands.
Addition of N-phenyl(aza-15-crown-5) (I) to dicyanomethylene compounds, i.e. pyrazolylidenemalonitriles derivatives, leads to colorless (azacrownphenyl)(pyrazolyl) malonitriles (II). Heating or photolysis of II eliminates hydrocyanic acid to give the deeply colored polymethines. A corresponding reaction occurs between the indanylidenemalonitrile derivatives and the crown ether I
Methyl isocyanate has been recently detected in comet 67P/ Churyumov-Gerasimenko (67P/CG) and in the interstellar medium. New physicochemical studies on this species are now necessary as tools for subsequent studies in astrophysics. In this work, infrared spectra of solid CH3NCO have been obtained at temperatures of relevance for astronomical environments. The spectra are dominated by a strong, characteristic multiplet feature at 2350-2250 cm-1, which can be attributed to the antisymmetric stretching of the NCO group. A phase transition from amorphous to crystalline methyl isocyanate is observed at ~ 90 K. The band strengths for the absorptions of CH3NCO in ice at 20 K have been measured. Deuterated methyl isocyanate is used to help with the spectral assignment. No X-ray structure has been reported for crystalline CH3NCO. Here we advance a tentative theoretical structure, based on Density Functional Theory (DFT) calculations, derived taking as a starting point the crystal of isocyanic acid. A harmonic theoretical spectrum is calculated then for the proposed structure, and compared with the experimental data. A mixed ice of H2O and CH3NCO was formed by simultaneous deposition of water and methyl isocyanate at 20 K. The absence of new spectral features indicates that methyl isocyanate and water do not react appreciably at 20 K, but form a stable mixture. The high CH3NCO/H2O ratio reported for comet 67P/CG, and the characteristic structure of the 2350-2250 cm-1 band, make of it a very good candidate for future astronomical searches.
Presented in this paper are the computational results of NO reburning with (a) a combination of methane and acetylene and (b) a combination of methane and ammonia. An updated reaction mechanism that was more comprehensive in terms of predicting the ammonia and isocyanic acid oxidation chemistry was employed to run the CKINTERP program. Using the binary file created by executing the above program and the input stoichiometric ratio conditions, the CHEMKIN package predicted the exit concentrations of various species involved in NO reburning.
An electrically conducting polyaniline doped with ferrocyanic acid was synthesized by oxidative polymerization of the aniline salt of ferrocyanic acid. The aniline salt of the acid and the obtained polyaniline were studied by nuclear γ-resonance, positron annihilation lifetime, and impedance spectroscopy.
Haematological characteristics was studied in 108 Dominant black pullets fed diets with varying levels of cassava peel meal (CPM). The birds were assigned into three experimental groups; A, B & C comprising 36 pullets each. The first group, Group A was given the control diets containing 0% CPM, while Groups C and B diets contained 10% and 20% CPM respectively. The packed cell volume (PCV) values in diet C at the 37 th week was significantly higher (P 0.05) difference among the various treatments. I. Introduction The recent global escalation of food crises call for sober reflection, owing to the fact that the world is facing a worsening food crises period unseen in the last 30years and that has a potential of leading to a catastrophe. Nigeria's population growth rate of over 3% per annum far outstrips the less than 2% annual growth in food production. Whereas her population increased at an annual rate of between 3% and 3.32%, total food production rose by no more than an average of 1.5% per annum between 1983 and 1990 (World Bank, 1988; 1995), and 1.03% per annum between 1990 and 2000 (CBN, 2002). The strong correlation that has been established between Nigeria's total GDP and the agriculture GDP suggests that the prospects of the non-oil sub- sector and the overall economy are closely tied to the performance of the agricultural sector (Eboh, 2005). One of the alternatives to partial replacement of maize in animal diets is processed cassava peel meal (Abu and Onifade, 1996; Ikurior and Onu, 1996; Eruvbetine et al., 1996; Salami 1999 and 2000). Aside from the lower values of crude protein and energy of the peel relative to those of maize, the greatest limitation to the use of cassava peels as a substitute for maize is that of it's hydrocyanic acid (HCN) content which is harmful to the monogastrics. Several processing methods have been applied to fresh cassava peels to reduce the cyanide content. The levels of various substances in the blood can provide clues to the animals condition. The best indicator of animals well being and it's potential for production is it's health status. Haematological profiles are important indicators of health and disease in animals and have become indispensable in the diagnosis, treatment and prognosis of many diseases. II. Materials and Methods This experiment was carried out in Makurdi, Benue State, Nigeria. Dominant black pullet chicks for this research were purchased from Global Millennium Chicks Hatchery in Ibadan, Nigeria. One hundred and eighty pullets were used in this research. The pullets were housed in an open-sided poultry house, which was partitioned into homogenous pens. The experimental diets consisted of a control diet without cassava peel meal; T1(0%) and others containing cassava peel meal at graded levels; T2 (10%) and T3 (20%) respectively. After soaking the cassava peels inside a closed metal drum for 5 days, the peels were removed from the sticky water and drained with a basket and subsequently sun-dried for 3 - 5 days. Haematological parameters determined included the packed cell volume (PCV), haemoglobin (Hb) concentration, total white bl.ood cell counts (total leucocytes count). Blood was collected from the jugular vein of the pullets into clean dry glass tubes containing a pinch of the anticolgulant, ethylene diamine tetracetic acid (EDTA) and taken to the laboratory for haematological analysis. The PCV, Hb concentration and total leucocytes count were evaluated on the 12 th , 24 th and 37 th weeks of the study. Four samples were collected from each group (treatment). The PCV was determined by the microhaematocril method (Coles, 1986), the Hb concentration was determined by the cyanomethaemoglobin method (Kachmar, 1970), while the total white blood cell count was determined using the method of Schalm, et al. (1975). III. Results and Discussion
Chemical composition of three sources of crude cassava water extract (CCWE) was evaluated in different varieties of cassava (MS6 Manihot Selection (local variety), TMS 30555 Tropical Manihot Selection (Improved variety) and Bulk (crude cassava water from cassava processing site). Crude cassava water extract from the pulp of cassava fresh roots was prepared and the chemical composition was determined in the analytical laboratory. The result of the analysis showed that, hydrocyanic acid (HCN) and with elements such as Magnesium (Mg), Manganese (Mn), Iron (Fe), Sulphur (S), Copper (Cu) and Zinc (Zn). Nitrogen (N), Phosphorous (P) and Potassium (K) were found in the extract. The study showed that due to the presence of hydrocyanic acid in the extract, this waste found around the cassava processing sites possesses phytotoxic effects on weeds/vegetation in form of leaf decoloration (yellowing), wilting and eventually death. Crude cassava water extract showed a probable natural herbicide which can be used by the peasant farmers because it is environmental friendly and easily biodegradable into harmless compounds in the environment
Carbon capture and storage (CCS) is a technological solution that can reduce the amount of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions from the use of fossil fuel in power plants and other industries. A leading method today is amine based post-combustion capture, in which 2-aminoethanol (MEA) is one of the most studied absorption solvents. In this process, amines are released to the atmosphere through evaporation and entrainment from the CO2 absorber column. Modelling is a key instrument for simulating the atmospheric dispersion and chemical transformation of MEA, and for projections of ground-level air concentrations and deposition rates. In this study, the Weather Research and Forecasting model inline coupled with chemistry, WRF-Chem, was applied to quantify the impact of using a comprehensive MEA photo-oxidation sequence compared to using a simplified MEA scheme. Main discrepancies were found for iminoethanol (roughly doubled in the detailed scheme) and 2-nitro aminoethanol, short MEA-nitramine (reduced by factor of two in the detailed scheme). The study indicates that MEA emissions from a full-scale capture plant can modify regional background levels of isocyanic acid. Predicted atmospheric concentrations of isocyanic acid were however below the limit value of 1 ppbv for ambient exposure. The dependence of the formation of hazardous compounds in the OH-initiated oxidation of MEA on ambient level of nitrogen oxides (NOx) was studied in a scenario without NOx emissions from a refinery area in the vicinity of the capture plant. Hourly MEA-nitramine peak concentrations higher than 40 pg m(-3) did only occur when NOx mixing ratios were above 2 ppbv. Therefore, the spatial variability and temporal variability of levels of OH and NOx need to be taken into account in the health risk assessment. The health risk due to direct emissions of nitrosamines and nitramines from full-scale CO2 capture should be investigated in future studies.
Abstract Pyrolysis/gas chromatography/mass spectrometry is proposed as a suitable technique for the differentiation of colorless polyacrylonitrile-based fibers with similar morphology. Quite frequently, a comparison between items of this type is necessary to assess the reliability of the reconstruction of a crime. Hydrocyanic acid, acetonitrile, acrylonitrile, acetic acid, methacrylonitrile, 1,3-dicyanopropene, 1,3-dicyanobutene, 2,4-dicyanobutene and 1,3,5-tricyanohexane were the degradation products deemed most useful for discrimination of the samples. Principal component analysis was employed for pattern recognition. Although fibers are industrial products very similar in structure and properties, the concentration and the distribution of head-to-head arrangements of the monomers differ slightly. These structural defects alter in a significant way the composition of the mixture of the pyrolysis products. This allows for the differentiation of fibers, which are often important traces in criminal investigations.
In this work modified starches such as porous starch (PS) and cross-linked phosphorylated porous starch (PPS) were used as tobacco filter to investigate their adsorption efficiency on the tar, ammonia (NH3), hydrocyanic acid (HCN), crotonaldehyde, and total particulate matter (TPM) in mainstream cigarette smoke. The pore properties and structural stability of the modified starches have been evaluated and the adsorption relationship between the modified starches and the main toxicants in tobacco smoke has also been established. Analytes of mainstream smoke from experimental cigarettes show reductions in yields of some measured constituents in mainstream cigarette smoke, such as tar, HCN, NH3, crotonaldehyde, and TPM. The largest reductions are for NH3 levels, up to 35.93% in one case, observed from the tobacco filter containing PPS. The largest reductions in mainstream yields of HCN (13.04%) and crotonaldehyde (31.06%) smoke toxicants were also observed. These results indicate that reducing exposure to some smoke toxicants is possible using the modified starches such as PS and PPS as tobacco filter.
For quite some time, urea-based selective catalytic reduction (SCR) has been a commercially available technique for NO X -abatement in heavy-duty lean-burn engine aftertreatment [1, 2] . In the urea-based system, an aqueous solution of urea (urea-water-solution, UWS) is injected into the exhaust gas system upstream of an SCR-catalyst, and the urea undergoes thermal decomposition into ammonia (NH 3 ) and isocyanic acid (HNCO). The HNCO may hydrolyze into additional NH 3 on the SCR-catalyst or on a hydrolysis catalyst. Ideally, each mole of injected urea releases upon decomposition two moles of NH 3 that may take part in the SCR-reactions [3, 4] . However, due to the difficulties associated with the injection and conversion of urea (e.g. the formation of deposits and low-temperature dosing [3] [4] [5] [6] ), alternative NH 3 -delivery strategies are presently paid extensive attention. One such emerging technique is based on solid ammine salts for on-board storage of NH 3 . In contrast to urea-based SCR-systems, where UWS is sprayed into the exhaust, the ammine system therefore relies on direct release of gaseous NH 3 [7] . The major benefit of this technique is the ability to dose NH 3 at low exhaust gas temperatures. A major design challenge for an SCR-system is thus to guarantee an acceptably uniform NH 3 -distribution for a wide range of operating conditions, within the often very limited space available for the geometrical design of an exhaust gas system [8, 9] .
IN the early years of the nineteenth century, advances in chemistry led to the isolation of active constituents from crude drugs. The isolation of the alkaloids in particular was an important event in the development of pharmacology. Their purity indicated the advances being made in the chemistry of organic materials, and the determination of doses and descriptions of their properties reflect the growing use of experiment to determine the action of substances on the animal body. In therapeutics, however, they were not new: morphine was used where opium had been used before; a dose of quinine replaced an infusion of cinchona. To examine developments in experimental pharmacology in relation to therapeutics and the thinking behind acceptance of a new remedy in this period, it is of greater value to study hydrocyanic acid, the pure, toxic, chemical substance which entered medicine at the same time as the alkaloids and, with them, formed the group designated by Magendie in 1821 as nouveaux medicaments.
Legends and stories of sudden death as a result of poisoning suggest that hydrocyanic acid has been available to assassins since earliest times, probably in the form of aromatic preparations of peach and almond. In the early materia medica there were a number of preparations containing hydrocyanic acid, amongst them cherrylaurel water prepared by distilling the leaves of Prunus laurocerasus, L., an evergreen shrub containing the glucoside Prulaurasin which decomposes on distillation to benzaldehyde and hydrocyanic acid (about 0.1 per cent). It was an investigation into the toxicity of this preparation that opened the modem history of the pharmacology of the acid.
ABSTRACT Tissue ablation with mid-infrared irradiation tuned to collagen vibrational modes results in minimal collateral damage. The hypothesis for this effect includes selective scission of protein molecules and excitation of surrounding water molecules, with the scission process currently favored. In this article, we describe the postablation infrared spectral decay kinetics in a model collagen-like peptide (Pro-Pro-Gly) 10 . We find that the decay is exponential with different decay times for other, simpler dipeptides. Furthermore, we find that collagen-like polypeptides, such as (Pro-Pro-Gly) 10 , show multiple decay times, indicating multiple scission locations and cross-linking to form longer chain molecules. In combination with data from high-resolution mass spectrometry, we interpret these products to result from the generation of reactive intermediates, such as free radicals, cyanate ions, and isocyanic acid, which can form cross-links and protein adducts. Our results lead to a more complete explanation of the reduced collateral damage resulting from infrared laser irradiation through a mechanism involving cross-linking in which collagenlike molecules form a network of cross-linked fibers.
The beneficial effects of eucalyptus oil (EO) either singly or in combination with volatile substances like camphor and menthol, as well as its toxic properties in high doses have been well known for a long time (for a recent review, see reference [1] ). This has led to its worldwide usage, either singly or in combination, as a home remedy for its decongestant, rubefacient, anti-inflammatory, analgesic, and antipyretic properties. Additionally, EO is also used in topically applied insect repellents. However, EO also contains toxic compounds including hydrocyanic acid that may cause multiple adverse reactions such as seizures, vomiting, drowsiness, coma and, in sufficiently high doses, lead to death [2] . Moreover, owing precisely to its ready availability and widespread usage in households, there is the ever-present hazard of children swallowing EO or EO-containing formulations. The first case report of EO poisoning in English language that we could trace dates back to 1898 from the former princely state of Travancore, now part of Kerala, India [3] . A second early case report dates back to 1911, this time from the U.K. [4] . Other, more recent case studies are available in the medical literature [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] . A retrospective analysis of cases of essential oil ingestion by infants admitted to the The Hospital For Sick Children, Toronto, Canada found that, out of 251 cases recorded during December 1995 to March 1997, EO or formulations containing EO accounted for 233 cases [10] . Likewise, 41 cases of EO ingestion in children under 14 were reported to the Mater Children's Hospital, South Brisbane, Queensland, Australia between July 1, 1984 and July 30, 1994 [11] . Day et al. surveyed poisoning cases from four medical facilities in the state of Victoria, Australia, and noted that poisoning by EO was over-represented in the sample relative to poisoning by other agents [12] . A qualitative study conducted in Cambodia in 2017 noted that the widespread usage of menthol and eucalyptus-derived terpenes in rubbing oils as well as ointments and recommended counseling about the toxic aspects of these products for parents and caregivers [13] . A study of 10 cases of EO poisoning-induced epileptic seizures based on admissions at three tertiary care hospitals located in Bengaluru, India found that the patients had been exposed to EO via inhalation (eight cases), intranasal instillation (one case), and massage (one case) [14] . From some of the available case studies we note that while the maximum number of cases may be attributed to ingestion, even topical application or inhalation of EO vapors can also result in adverse reactions [6] [7] [14] [15] [16] . Intriguingly, the Queensland study also noted that 33 children were entirely asymptomatic, including four who had reportedly swallowed more than 30 mL of EO [11] . Only two children out of these 41 exhibited symptoms requiring some medical attention, but not advanced life support. Thus, it is safe to surmise that, starting with the 1898 case report, the problem of inappropriate exposure to EO continues to recur to the present day in a variety of settings, exhibiting a wide range of clinical outcomes.
Carbamylation is a posttranslational modification of proteins induced by cyanate in human blood plasma (1) . The active form of cyanate, isocyanic acid, reacts irreversibly with the amino-or thiol groups of amino acids in proteins. The resulting in vivo carbamylation changes the structure of proteins, and modifies the activity of enzymes, cofactors, hormones and antibodies (2) .
Methyl isocyanate has been recently detected in comet 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko (67P/CG) and in the interstellar medium. New physicochemical studies on this species are now necessary as tools for subsequent studies in astrophysics. In this work, infrared spectra of solid CH 3 NCO have been obtained at temperatures of relevance for astronomical environments. The spectra are dominated by a strong, characteristic multiplet feature at 2350-2250 cm −1 , which can be attributed to the asymmetric stretching of the NCO group. A phase transition from amorphous to crystalline methyl isocyanate is observed at ∼90 K. The band strengths for the absorptions of CH 3 NCO in ice at 20 K have been measured. Deuterated methyl isocyanate is used to help with the spectral assignment. No X-ray structure has been reported for crystalline CH 3 NCO. Here we advance a tentative theoretical structure, based on density functional theory (DFT) calculations, derived taking the crystal of isocyanic acid as a starting point. A harmonic theoretical spectrum is then calculated for the proposed structure and compared with the experimental data. A mixed ice of H 2 O and CH 3 NCO was formed by simultaneous deposition of water and methyl isocyanate at 20 K. The absence of new spectral features indicates that methyl isocyanate and water do not react appreciably at 20 K, but form a stable mixture. The high CH 3 NCO/H 2 O ratio reported for comet 67P/CG, and the characteristic structure of the 2350-2250 cm −1 band, makes it a very good candidate for future astronomical searches.
BACKGROUNDAIM :To study the expression of HSP70gene from tissues of Gastric carcinoma,Esophagus carcinoma and Cervical carcinoma. MATRAIAL AND METHODS: Tissue samples of cancers(gastric carcinoma,esophagus cancer,cervical carcinoma)were obtained from operating room of hospital.RNA was extracted according to the cyanic acid guanidine law of different sulphur separately,RNA separation carried out with1%agarose electrophoresis.RNA was transfered from the straining gel to(Northern blot)the membrane,and then using HSP70gene probe P17was applied to the RNA from gastric carcinoma,esophagus carcinoma and cervical carcinoma. RESULTS: The results indicates that HSP70gene plays an important role in the development of cancer.It also provided valuable clues for the understanding of mechanism of cancer genesis and gene treatment for cancer.
Accelerating the fermentation process of cassava tubers was investigated by monitoring the pH, time and the addition of mild steel, leading and how it affects the rate of hydrocyanic acid (HCN) removal. The medium was monitored between the pH of 6.9 to 3.4 for peeled soaked tuber and pH between 6.7 to 3.3 for grated tubers. The analysis was carried out at constant temperature of 30 0 C ± 2. The investigation of the hydrocyanic acid content and its removal was carried out in different media. The natural fermentation (control) retting time was 96 hours having 80.16HCN Mg/Kg with 78.80% HCN reduction for soaked tubers and 76.78HCN Mg/Kg with 79% detoxification for grated tubers respectively. Secondly, the inoculation with 2% w/w acetic acid with a retting time of 72 hours having 80.16HCN Mg/Kg with 83.15% detoxification and 76.78HCN Mg/Kg with 84.38% detoxification for soaked tubers and grated tubers respectively. Thirdly, the addition of 10g/L mild steel (nails) reduced the retting time to 48 hours having 80.16 HCN Mg/Kg with 81.90% detoxification for soaked tubers and 76.78HCN Mg/Kg with 85.68% reduction for grated tubers respectively lastly, the leaching process with the mother-liquor at 60 hours retting time having 80.16HCN Mg/Kg with 76.93% reduction for soaked tubers and 76.78HCN Mg/Kg with 78.52% detoxification for grated tubers. The rates of detoxification in all the processes were efficient when compared with the tolerance level recommended by food association organization/world health organization (FAO/WHO). The Fisher’ Least Significant Difference(F-LSD) was employed at 5% least significant difference to compare the means of the result.The result shows no significant difference in their means.
1. ::: ::: [(Tricarbonylmanganese) cyclopentadienyl](triphenylphosphine)gold has been synthesized. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: In the reaction with hydrochloric, hydroiodic, and hydrocyanic acids [(tricarbonylmanganese)cyclopentadienyl] (triphenylphosphine)gold forms tricarbonylcyclopentadienylmanganese and complexes of univalent gold salts with triphenylphosphine. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: In the reaction of chlorine and bromine with [(triearbonylmanganese)cyclopentadienyl] (triphenylphosphine) gold the corresponding halogen derivatives of tricarbonylcyclopentadienylmanganese are formed, and ([bicyclopentadienyl]diyl]bis[tricarbonylmanganese], and complexes of univalent gold halides with triphenylphosphine.
We report detection of protonated isocyanic acid in two isomeric forms, H2NCO+ and HNCOH+, by high-resolution spectroscopy. The two ions were first observed at centimeter wavelengths by Fourier Transform (FT) microwave spectroscopy, in a discharge through HNCO heavily diluted in hydrogen in the throat of a supersonic nozzle. Spectroscopic constants derived from the two lowest rotational transitions of both isomers agree very well with those derived from theoretical structures computed at the coupled cluster level of theory. In the same molecular beam, the fundamental rotational transition of NCO− was observed with well-resolved nitrogen quadrupole hyperfine structure. Detection of NCO− and H2NCO+ in our beam was subsequently confirmed by observation of several millimeter-wave transitions in a low pressure discharge through cyanogen and water. The spectroscopic constants of NCO− obtained earlier by infrared laser spectroscopy are in good agreement with the highly accurate constants derived here. Owing to t...
Publisher Summary This chapter discusses the pyrolysis of derivatives of carbonic acid with nitrogenous functionalities. Ethyl carbamate or ethyl urethane decomposes at boiling point to generate a mixture of compounds, including cyanuric acid. A large number of carbamates were synthesized and used as pesticides. These include insecticides, herbicides, and fungicides. Pyrolysis of carbofuran, for example, performed at 750°C generated a complex mixture containing 86 identifiable molecular fragments. A large number of mono aromatics and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons were detected in the pyrolysate, in addition to some oxygenated heterocyclic compounds. Urea was synthesized initially by thermal decomposition of ammonium isocyanate. Urea itself decomposes around 175°C to generate ammonia and cyanuric acid. Guanidine thermal decomposition leads to the formation of NH 3 and melamine. A series of compounds known as cyanates can be generated by the replacement of the hydrogen atom in HOCN with organic radicals. An isomer of cyanic acid is isocyanic acid HNCO and this compound also generates a series of organic compounds known as isocyanates. Cyanic acid easily forms trimers (cyanuric acid) or higher aligomers such as pentacyanic acid. These compounds decompose by heating at temperatures around 350°C to form the monomer.
In this work, the detailed study on the mechanism, kinetics and thermochemistry of the isomerization of isocyanic is described. Theoretical study was carried out by ab initio molecular orbital theory based on the CCSD(T) and B3LYP/6-311++G(3df,2p) methods in conjunction with statistical theoretical kinetic Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) Master equation calculations. The potential energy surface (PES) for the isomeric reactions was also examined. At 760 Torr pressure, temperature dependent rate constants of the isomeric reactions HNCO ® HOCN (a), HNCO ® H(CNO) (b) and HNCO ® H(NCO) (c) were: k(T) (a) = 10 -37.70 .T 13.09 .e -93.30kcal/mol/RT , k(T) (b) = 10 3.46 .T 1.76 .e -93.98kcal/mol/RT , k(T) (c) = 10 -28.50 .T 10.61 .e -91.16kcal/mol/RT respectively. Calculated results show that the isomerization of isocyanic acid may take place via three mechanisms and have very high barriers; all rate constants of them are very small in the temperature range from 300 to 2000 K. Keywords. Potential energy surface, isocyanic acid, density function theory, isomerization.
In this study, waterborne polyurethane (WPU) hybrid emulsions with a weight ratio of 2/1 were prepared by emulsion polymerization using a mixture of styrene (St) and/or butyl acrylate (BA) monomers with WPU dispersion. WPU dispersion was synthesized with isocyanic acid and m-tetramethylxylene diisocyanate (m-TMXDI)-based anionic poly(urethane-urea) dispersions using the prepolymer mixing process. The structures of WPU and hybrids were characterized by FTIR spectroscopy. The size and morphology of the latex particles were investigated using dynamic light scattering and transmission electron microscopy, respectively. The stability of the emulsions was determined according to their shelf life and particle size using the dispersion analyser LUMiSizer® with STEP™-Technology. The thermal and mechanical properties of these films were examined by thermogravimetric analysis and strain-stress curves.
Summary ::: ::: The extent of the loss of hydrocyanic acid (HCN) from grated cassava roots, selected from both the sweet and bitter varieties, was compared in the roasted grit (gari) derived from their fresh pulp which had been dewatered and fermented by two different processes; the quick (1-day) ‘screw press’ method (QSP) and the slow (3-day) traditional one (STD), respectively. The relative amounts of HCN which had disappeared after 1 day, in the case of QSP, and 3 days, in respect of STD, were comparable (92–100%) for either free (non-glycosidic) or bound (glycosidic) cyanide content of the two cultivars, indicating that the former method was more efficient than the latter in the detoxification of the grated pulp. The QSP method appeared to retain some of the bound cyanide while with the STD method, virtually no bound cyanide was detectable. About 83–91% of the total HCN content of the grated roots was present as free cyanide. It would seem that varietal differences in HCN contents of cassava may not be a critical factor in the preferential selection of the roots for ‘garification’.
IN a letter to NATURE of May 13 I made a statement to which Dr. Perman very naturally takes exception (May 27, p. 369). He cites ammonia, hydrocyanic acid, and hydrofluoric acid as instances of volatile bodies lighter than air, yet odorous. In considering the physiology of olfaction, however, certain conditions which might lead to misconception must be ruled out. In the first place, a very minute addition of impurity suffices to give odour to an otherwise odourless substance. Formalin was the substance of which I was writing. My judgment, based on sensory experience, absolutely declines to accept the somewhat fatty scent which I recognise with my nose close to a dish of formalin as a property of the vapour which irritates my conjunctiva when far beyond the range of smell. The chief drawback to the ordinary commercial method of preparing formaldehyde is, I am told, the impossibility of preventing polymerisation. In the same way, as Dr. Perman himself points out, hydrofluoric acid at ordinary temperatures “consists mostly of molecules H2F2”. Hydrocyanic acid, again, shows a great tendency to polymerisation and to decomposition in the presence of water. The possibility of ionisation in the presence of the film of moisture on the surface of the olfactory membrane and of the moist air in the nasal chambers must also be taken into account. It is also possible that certain gases produce an olfactive effect after the incorporation of water in their molecules.
kinds of silatrane-containing acyl thiourea compound were synthesized with benzoic acid as raw material by means of chloridization,isosulfocyanic acid esterification and ammipropyl silatrane.The structure of the compound was confirmed by IR,~(1)HNMR and element analysis,and its fungicidal activity was tested.The result showed that all compounds had good inhibitory to pathogenic bacteria,and the inhibitory to cucumber leaf mold would be as high as 98%.
Biogas could be produced by the co-digestion of coffee-pulp and cow-dung mixture under solar radiation. Gas chromatography and FTIR spectroscopy were used to analyze the chemical compositions of the generated biogas and its postcombustion emissions. From the first month of co-digestion at mesophylic conditions, methane content in the biogas attains 50% of the yield. This content increased up to 60% and remained almost constant for at least 8 months of further digestion. The FTIR gas spectroscopy analysis revealed the presence of over 70 chemical compounds in the biogas generated after 4 months of co-digestion along with several compounds hazardous to environment and animal health like isocyanic acid, and bromomethane. Combustion emission of the biogas contained several components like CH4 ,C 3H8, CO, SO2, HI, and probably Br2 which are strongly harmful to human and animal health. Results presented in this work indicate that if the biogas is to be considered as a fuel, the conventional combustion technology has to be upgraded to prevent these hazardous emissions to the atmosphere.
Summary ::: ::: Changes that occurred during the storage of fresh cassava roots and their effect upon acceptability of the roots both for human consumption as a fresh vegetable and for animal feed purposes are reported. During storage there was a rapid accumulation of total sugars accompanied by a small decline in starch content. In those roots showing internal discolouration and deterioration the percentage of sucrose declined very dramatically. Although roots softened during storage they required a longer cooking time for human consumption. In most cases roots remained of acceptable eating quality over an eight-week period although none of the stored roots were as good as freshly harvested roots. All stored roots had a sweet flavour and frequently an uneven texture not present in fresh roots. Cassava intake by pigs was lower for stored than for freshly harvested roots: this reduction was more marked for sweet than for bitter varieties which suggests that hydrocyanic acid content is not the only factor limiting consumption, texture and organoleptic changes may also be important. Despite all the changes that occurred during storage the feeding quality of cassava meal in rat feeding trials was not noticeably affected, thus for practical purposes the preparation of cassava meal for diets for domestic animals, notably chicken and pigs, might eliminate the limitations observed in texture and eating quality of stored roots.
Isocyanic acid (HNCO) has recently been identified in ambient air at potentially concerning concentrations for human health. Since its first atmospheric detection, significant progress has been made in understanding its sources and sinks. The chemistry of HNCO is governed by its partitioning between the gas and liquid phases, its weak acidity, its high solubility at pH above 5, and its electrophilic chemical behaviour. The online measurement of HNCO in ambient air is possible due to recent advances in mass spectrometry techniques, including chemical ionization mass spectrometry for the detection of weak acids. To date, HNCO has been measured in North America, Europe and South Asia as well as outdoors and indoors, with mixing ratios up to 10s of ppbv. The sources of HNCO include: (1) fossil fuel combustion such as coal, gasoline and diesel, (2) biomass burning such as wildfires and crop residue burning, (3) secondary photochemical production from amines and amides, (4) cigarette smoke, and (5) combustion of materials in the built environment. Then, three losses processes can occur: (1) gas phase photochemistry, (2) heterogenous uptake and hydrolysis, and (3) dry deposition. HNCO lifetimes with respect to photolysis and OH radical oxidation are on the order of months to decades. Consequently, the removal of HNCO from the atmosphere is thought to occur predominantly by dry deposition and by heterogeneous uptake followed by hydrolysis to NH3 and CO2. A back of the envelope calculation reveals that HNCO is an insignificant global source of NH3, contributing only around 1%, but could be important for local environments. Furthermore, HNCO can react due to its electrophilic behaviour with various nucleophilic functionalities, including those present in the human body through a reaction called protein carbamoylation. This protein modification can lead to toxicity, and thus exposure to high concentrations of HNCO can lead to cardiovascular and respiratory diseases, as well as cataracts. In this critical review, we outline our current understanding of the atmospheric fate of HNCO and its potential impacts on outdoor and indoor air quality. We also call attention to the need for toxicology studies linking HNCO exposure to health effects.
All objects, including human bodies, emit electromagnetic radiation, see [1] and [2]. This article is on radiation associated with heavy metals present in human bodies, like calcium which is biochemically essential, but lethal when bonded to hydrocyanic acids. Our interest is on remote sensing and monitoring of these metals, before they could lead to unwelcome consequences. We have demonstrated that detection is possible at a laboratory situation [2]. In this contribution we extend the study to living systems. ...
Photodissociation of jet-cooled isocyanic acid has been examined by photofragment ion imaging of H(D) from H(D)NCO and CO from HNCO, and by laser induced fluorescence (LIF) of NH(a 1Δ) from HNCO. Only modest recoil anisotropy is observed in the H+NCO channel at 243.1 nm (β=−0.13±0.05), while the D+NCO channel at approximately the same wavelength reveals no anisotropy (β=0.00±0.05), confirming that the dissociation of H(D)NCO from the opening of the H(D) channel proceeds via vibrational predissociation on the S0(1A) surface. In contrast, substantial anisotropy (β=−0.66±0.08) is observed in the NH(a 1Δ)+CO channel at 230.1 nm, but this value can correspond to dissociation on either S0 or S1. The photolysis region between 243 and 230 nm thus appears important in providing clues to the dissociation mechanism and the competition between different potential energy surfaces. At 217.6 nm, product state distributions exhibit clear dynamical biases. CO is produced in both ν=0 and ν=1, while NH(a 1Δ) distributions c...
A study was conducted to investigate the possibility of exploiting heterosis in breeding for improved quality in forage sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] and to identify parents with desirable genetic effects. 45 hybrids produced by crossing 3 cytoplasmic male sterile lines with 15 local males were evaluated for quality trait. Line x tester analysis was performed to study general and specific combining ability. The magnitudes of mid-parent, better-parent heterosis and standard heterosis were investigated. Hybrids with best heterotic and specific effects for some traits were also among the best in per se performance for the same traits. Crosses SURAT-1 x C-10-2 and SURAT-1 x GUNDRI exhibited significant standard heterosis in desirable direction for green fodder yield per plant, crude protein content and hydrocyanic acid content. The parental genotype SURAT-2 among females and GUNDRI & C-10-2 among males showed the highest gca effects, whereas the crosses SURAT-1 x C-10-2, SURAT-4 x UP CHARI and SURAT-2 x PHULE AMRUTA among hybrids exhibited the highest and significant sca effects for yield and its quality components. Hybrids low in NDF and CF percentage appears to be attainable without sacrificing high yield levels. It was concluded that exploiting heterosis in forage sorghum to improve quality traits might be promising.
Abstract This work investigates the thermal degradation of high performance fibres. Poly- p -phenylenediamine-terephthalamide fibres (PPTA) and poly( p -phenylene-2,6-benzobisoxazole) (PBO) fibres are examined when degrading in a furnace. Both gas and condensed phase are analysed. When degrading PPTA and PBO, CO, CO 2 and H 2 O are detected by FTIR as major compounds composing the gas phase. As minor products, aromatic species, hydrocyanic acid (HCN) and ethylenic species are found (600 °C). Because of the higher thermal stability of PBO, their evolved amounts are always lower than those of PPTA and they are given off at much longer times. Moreover, no aromatic compound and a very low quantity of ethylenic species are detected in the gas phase suggesting they were involved in charring reactions. At 800 °C only nitric oxides are detected as minor products in the gas phase. A mechanism of formation of NO x from HCN is proposed. The investigation of the condensed phase by solid state NMR shows that PPTA and PBO are transformed into char when degrading. The char is composed of partially oxidised polyaromatic compounds, which can trap free radicals. It is suggested that the char structure of PBO may resist oxidation better than PPTA.
Gas-phase acids in light duty diesel (LDD) vehicle exhaust were measured using chemical ionization mass spectrometry (CIMS). Fuel based emission factors (EF) and NOx ratios for these species were determined under differing steady state engine operating conditions. The derived HONO and HNO3 EFs agree well with literature values, with HONO being the single most important acidic emission. Of particular importance is the quantification of the EF for the toxic species, isocyanic acid (HNCO). The emission factors for HNCO ranged from 0.69 to 3.96 mg kgfuel–1, and were significantly higher than previous biomass burning emission estimates. Further ambient urban measurements of HNCO demonstrated a clear relationship with the known traffic markers of benzene and toluene, demonstrating for the first time that urban commuter traffic is a source of HNCO. Estimates based upon the HNCO-benzene relationship indicate that upward of 23 tonnes of HNCO are released annually from commuter traffic in the Greater Toronto Area, ...
BACKGROUND ::: This study investigated the prevalence of ocular and respiratory symptoms and lung function in foundry workers exposed to isocyanic acid (ICA) and methyl isocyanate (MIC). ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Foundry workers (n = 64) using the Hot Box binder technique and referents (n = 134) completed two questionnaires and a spirometry before and after a day shift. Findings were analyzed relating to exposure measurements of ICA, MIC, and formaldehyde. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Exposed workers reported more frequently ocular irritation and coughing. Pre-shift lung function was lower than predicted in both groups of workers, and was not associated with exposure duration. Decrease in lung function over shift was more pronounced in exposed workers, but this was not associated with quantitative measures of the exposures. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: An increased prevalence of ocular and respiratory symptoms, as well as a small decrease in lung function over shift, was observed among exposed workers. No associations with exposure to monoisocyanates and formaldehyde were seen, thus suggesting that other irritants in the foundry environment might be the cause. The effects seemed to be small and not clinically relevant on an individual level. Further studies using a follow-up design may be warranted.
Disclosed is an iodine-based etching solution for etching a material wherein palladium and gold coexist. This etching solution contains at least one additive selected from the group consisting of nitrogen-containing five-membered ring compounds, alcohol compounds, amide compounds, ketone compounds, thiocyanic acid compounds, amine compounds and imide compounds. The etching rate ratio between palladium and gold (etching rate of palladium/etching rate of gold) is not less than 1.
Abstract We report large-scale electronic structure calculations for fulminic acid, HCNO, isocyanic acid, HNCO, and cyanic acid, HOCN, in their ground electronic states. The coupled cluster CCSD(T) method including all single and double excitations and a perturbative term for connected triple substitutions is used in conjunction with large correlation consistent polarized valence basis sets of the form cc-pVXZ ( X = 2–6) and cc-pCVXZ ( X = 2–5). Our results show the importance of including all electrons in the correlation treatment to obtain a converged molecular structure for the extremely floppy HCNO molecule and the correct energetics of the three isomers. All-electron correlation calculations and frozen core calculations with very large basis sets clearly converge towards a linear electronic minimum for HCNO surrounded by a very large flat region of the potential energy surface for hydrogen bending motions. For each of the three isomers we have computed the barrier to linearity along the respective minimum energy path and several spectroscopic parameters and equilibrium rotational constants.
Since the use of plastic materials, a change in the pathology of fire victims has been observed. We studied the effects of a single short-term inhalation (30 min) of a sub-lethal dose of polypropylene pyrolysis products (one LD-0). Including control and test animals, 66 rats and 112 mice were used. The exposure provoked disturbances in the antixenic defense mechanisms of the respiratory system, chiefly in tracheo-bronchial defenses, since we observed a lowering of ciliary activity of 35 to 78% in test animals exposed a few hours before, compared with the controls. These changes provoked a significant increase in death-rate of test animals, following experimental airborne infection by Klebsiella pneumoniae. The combustion products of polypropylene plastic materials did not contain hydrocyanic acid nor hydrochloric acid, and neither the temperature of the inhaled air, nor the concentration of carbon monoxide could explain these effects. On the contrary, we can suspect the well known irritative properties of aldehyde compounds formed during smoldering combustion of polypropylene.
The invention provides an environment-friendly clean process method for producing hydrocyanic acid derivatives by purge gas. The method is characterized in that: methane-containing purge gas is separated by a pressure swing adsorption device and other separation devices to obtain ammonia (or methanol), hydrogen, nitrogen, methane gas and tail gas; the ammonia (or methanol), hydrogen, and nitrogen are returned to an ammonia synthesis (or methanol synthesis) system for full utilization; the methane gas is used for synthesizing hydrocyanic acid derivatives; and the tail gas is used for argon recycle; the hydrocyanic acid synthesized by the methane gas is used for synthesizing various hydrocyanic acid derivatives: the methane gas is directly used for ammoxidation or ammonification dehydrogenation to synthesize hydrocyanic acid synthetic gas; an absorption reaction takes place between the synthetic gas and a sodium hydroxide aqueous solution to obtain sodium cyanide used for synthesizing downstream hydrocyanic acid derivatives; the synthetic gas reacts with formaldehyde and other organic aldehydes to synthesize hydroxy acetonitrile and other hydrocyanic acid derivatives used for synthesizing downstream hydrocyanic acid derivatives; the synthetic gas is subjected to absorption and dissolution purification by water or other solvents to obtain liquid hydrocyanic acid used for synthesizing downstream hydrocyanic acid derivatives.
Abstract does not appear. First page follows. ::: Methods for the accurate determination of hydrocyanic acid (HCN) and studies of factors ::: affecting the recovery of HCN from fumigated citrus tissues have been previously reported ::: (1), (2).6 The present paper is concerned with the results of the application of the principles ::: derived from the earlier studies to further laboratory experiments, performed in conjunction ::: with the fumigation studies of citrus trees under orchard conditions. ::: The effect of certain factors, such as oil sprays, the locality in which the trees ::: were grown, and the temperature, age, and moisture content of citrus tissues at time ::: of fumigation, have been studied in relation to the absorption and retention of HCN ::: under both laboratory and field conditions. The comparative amounts of absorption ::: and lengths of time of retention of HCN have also been studied in relation to maturity ::: of leaves and fruits and in relation to their injurious or noninjurious effects. The ::: results of laboratory experiments cannot always be applied directly to the solution ::: of orchard fumigation problems, but they may serve as a basis for the formulation ::: of field experiments. ::: The trees, leaves, and fruits used in the experiments described in this paper were ::: of the Valencia-orange variety (Citrus sinensis Osbeck).
Abstract The reactions of cyanate with model compounds containing amino and tyrosine hydroxyl groups have been studied in detail. The reactions involve nucleophilic addition of the amino or phenoxide group to the molecular form of cyanic acid. The proposed mechanism of the reactions has aided in the selection of optimal experimental conditions for the carbamylation of amino and tyrosine hydroxyl groups in proteins and peptides. Carbamylation represents a useful reaction for the reversible blocking of tyrosine hydroxyl groups, the O-carbamyl substituent being readily removed by hydrolysis at neutral and alkaline pH values. By application of the cyanate reaction to oxytocin, two new analogues were obtained, N-carbamyl-O-carbamyloxytocin and N-carbamyloxytocin. The sites of reaction and degree of purity were determined by experiments involving degradation of the molecules and by the use of radioactive labeling. On the isolated uterus, N-carbamyl-O-carbamyloxytocin acts as an inhibitor of oxytocin without itself possessing oxytocic activity; N-carbamyloxytocin is a feebly active analogue with no inhibitory properties. At pH 7.4 and 37°, the inhibitory analogue undergoes slow hydrolysis to yield the weakly active analogue. The very low activity of N-carbamyloxytocin provides an explanation for the inactivation of oxytocin by 8 m urea.
The spectrophotometric determination of niobium, based on measuring the yellow component by thiocyanic acid formed in homogeneous hydrous acetone medium, is described. Technical pentavalent Nb, potassium fluoroniobate, and barium and potassium niobates were analyzed. The results are in good agreement with gravimetric methods; maximum deviation does not exceed 0.5 to 1%. (R.V.J.)
Pertaining to these facts, in present study, two rhizospheric isolates Sinorhizobium meliloti RMP1 and Pseudomonas aeruginosa GRC 2 were studied for their potential for integrated nutrient management studies to improve growth and yield of B. juncea and reduce use of chemicals. These isolates are well known for their plant growth-promoting (PGP) activities [5, 9] . RMP1 is known to produce siderophore, indole acetic acid (IAA), solubilzed insoluble phosphate and inhibited growth of charcoal rot disease causing Macrophomina phaseolina, while GRC 2 is known to have hydrocyanic acid (HCN) and chitinase production ability. GRC 2 is also antagonistic to Macrophomina phaseolina, Fusarium oxysporum and Sclerotia sclerotiorum [5] . Further, to substantiate applicability of Sinorhizobium meliloti RMP1 and Pseudomonas aeruginosa GRC 2 in rhizosphere, their chemotactic behaviour towards two chemical fertilizers-urea and diammonium phosphate (DAP) was evaluated. Also, they were applied in field along with reduced dose of fertilizers, as individual trials or in co-inoculated conditions. The competence of RMP1 and GRC 2 in B. juncea rhizosphere was also experimented.
OA offers the extensive listing of the SM and its morbid nervous communications with other organs: production of fever, some irregular movements of the organs of locomotion, epilepsy, chorea, tetanus, trismus of the newborn, it can accompany rabies (hydrophobia). He quotes a few SM relative affections with respiratory, circulatory, digestive and genital organ's symptoms. A report was given to him on the case of a woman who fell on a stone, hitting her abdomen, followed by an immediate loss of consciousness. She arose as a 'tetraplegic', but with no sign of localization. In fine, she was cured by extracts of rhus radicans 17, 27 given as a potion p.d. Otherwise, he considers as relevant the treatment by strong and repetitive purgatory substances such as in the colitis caused by lead poising, associated with intermittent paralysis (he was also a specialist in toxicology!). In another part of this chapter, he gives his own remarks on the substances that seem to act directly on the SM and their therapeutic indications. He notes again the particular effects of Nux Vomica used as a tincture in an enema, potion, frictions or via the endermic direct application of pure strychnine after vesiculation or cauterization, of the skin. He relates its excitatory action on the uterus (but warns not to be administered in pregnancy as soon as labor starts!). He thought that its modes of action appeared to be via the vascular system. The excitatory action of strychnine on paralyzed muscles was perhaps due only by the absence of a supraspinal control? Still, he seems to have some reasonable doubts on the action of this substance! The final chapter ends by a few remarks on the action of the usefulness of the hydrocyanic acid. 28 (But Prussic Acid still remained a lethal poison, and was removed, at that time from the British and Irish pharmacopoeia.)
Photodissociation of jet-cooled isocyanic acid has been examined by photofragment ion imaging of H͑D͒ from H͑D͒NCO and CO from HNCO, and by laser induced fluorescence ͑LIF͒ of NH(a 1 ⌬) from HNCO. Only modest recoil anisotropy is observed in the HϩNCO channel at 243.1 nm ͑␤ϭϪ0.13Ϯ0.05͒, while the DϩNCO channel at approximately the same wavelength reveals no anisotropy ͑␤ϭ0.00Ϯ0.05͒, confirming that the dissociation of H͑D͒NCO from the opening of the H͑D͒ channel proceeds via vibrational predissociation on the S 0 ( 1 AЈ) surface. In contrast, substantial anisotropy ͑␤ϭϪ0.66Ϯ0.08͒ is observed in the NH(a 1 ⌬)ϩCO channel at 230.1 nm, but this value can correspond to dissociation on either S 0 or S 1 . The photolysis region between 243 and 230 nm thus appears important in providing clues to the dissociation mechanism and the competition between different potential energy surfaces. At 217.6 nm, product state distributions exhibit clear dynamical biases. CO is produced in both ϭ0 and ϭ1, while NH(a 1 ⌬) distributions correlated with different rovibrational levels of CO, although different in shape, are always cold, consistent with the global NH distribution measured by LIF. The NH distributions indicate dissociation on S 1 ( 1 AЉ), and can be described by Franck-Condon mapping of transition state wave functions in the HNC bending coordinate without additional torque, implying little anisotropy in the potential along that coordinate. On the other hand, a larger torque is manifest in the CO rotational distribution. Although at 217.6 nm the dissociation is likely to be dominated by decomposition on S 1 , competition with radiationless decay is still manifest. From analysis of the CO photofragment velocity distribution at 230.1 nm, the NH(a 1 ⌬)ϩCO dissociation threshold is determined at 42 765 Ϯ 25 cm
The most commonly used synthesis of β-isothiocyanato aldehydes and ketones1involves the addition of thiocyanic acid to the corresponding -unsaturated carbonyl compounds 2 (Scheme1) [1, 18, 19] .
Pearl millet uses less water per unit quantity of forage production, tolerates heat and drought. Therefore, it is generally grown in areas where environmental conditions, especially rainfall, temperature and soil fertility are too harsh to grow other cereals (Hanna and Cardona, 2001; Khairwal et al., 2009) . The dry fodder and straw of pearl millet is used to feed the livestock in marginal production environments, particularly during the dry season when green fodder is limited. It is a promising crop for green fodder supply especially in the lean periods in several countries. Both plant growth and development are affected by changing climate, particularly due to high temperatures during summer resulting in shortage of fodder. In India, the demand for green fodder would be high during summer months (March to June). Pearl millet is a quick growing cereal with large number of tillers, leaves and panicles as compared with maize and sorghum. Its fodder is low in antinutritional factors such as hydrocyanic acid and oxalic acid and can be used at any stage of the crop (Gupta, 1975) . Hence, unlike sorghum, being all time forage, pearl millet can be grazed or cut and fed at any crop growth stage. Identification of potential landraces would be helpful in development of forage or dual purpose pearl millet cultivars. The gap in fodder demand and its supply can be bridged by developing high fodder yielding cultivars of pearl millet. Extent of genetic variability for fodder traits in the collection under study is critical in developing fodder varieties. Hence, efforts are needed to identify germplasm adaptable to high temperature and less sensitive to climate change and produce more fodder in summer or off-seasons across the countries.
Replace with the iso - Propyl cyanohydrin the Hydrocyanic acid added with 2,4,4 -Trimethyl - 1 -penteno. Add outcome through Methanol Alcoholysis the system has the Tert - Octylanime, Though iso - Propyl cyanohydrin still have the big toxicity (iso - Propyl cyanohydrin is of no color liquid with, boiling point 95℃) , but it is easy to control,The reguest synthesize term and equipment is relatively low and at the same time viceproduce the Methyl methacrylate.
A pharmaceutical composition containing as its active ingredient a disaccharide derivative having a derivative group of the following formula (1) bonded to a carbon atom of a disaccharide: (1) wherein Y is a member of the group consisting of NH and O; and when Y is NH, Z is a member of the class consisting of -O- (disaccharide residue) and -O-, with the proviso that one of the two bonds is attached to the other carbon atom of the same disaccharide to which the formula (1) group is bonded, and when Y is O, Z is a member of the class consisting of -NH2 and -O-, with the proviso that one of the two bonds is attached to a carbon atom of a disaccharide different from that to which the formula (1) group is bonded. The disaccharide derivative can be prepared by reacting a disaccharide with an activating agent selected from the group consisting of the cyanogen halides, organic cyanic acid esters and halogenocarbonic acid alkyl esters. Said pharmaceutical composition is useful for treating hepatic diseases.
In brief: Three brands of plastic tennis ball containers were tested to determine whether they were safe receptacles for drinking water. The containers were cultured for bacteria and viruses immediately after they were opened. Then they were filled with organic-free water; water samples were analyzed for organic compounds immediately after they were filled, every 30 minutes for two hours, and at 20 hours. Culture results showed that the containers were sterile, but chemical analyses of the water samples yielded low levels of toluene, trichloroethane, and thiocyanic acid. Although the amounts of these compounds were not toxic, the authors recommend that tennis players rinse the containers thoroughly at least once before using them to hold drinking water.
Abstract Ab initio molecular orbital calculations, including geometry optimizations up to the level of MP3/6-31G**, have been carried out for carbodiimide (HNCNH). The best predicted structure for carbodiimide, which includes empirical adjustments to some geometrical parameters, has r (NH) = 1.010 A, r (CN) = 1.224 A, ∠ HNC = 119.7°, ∠ NCN= 170.8° and ∠HN…#NH=89.6°. The calculated HNC angle shows a large variation between different levels of theory. Similar behaviour is found to occur for the related molecules, isocyanic acid (HNCO) and ketenimine (HNCCH 2 ), but not for methanimine (HNCH 2 ). The experimental observation that carbodiimide is one of the most nearly accidentally symmetric top molecules known has been confirmed. Stereomutation in carbodiimide is predicted to occur via internal rotation rather than pure inversion, but substantial (≈ 13°) opening of the HNC bond angle accompanies the torsional motion. The vibrational frequencies for carbodiimide have been calculated at the HF/6–31 G* level and empirically adjusted to yield predicted experimental values.
The invention provides a derivative of macrolides, a method for preparing the same and application thereof. The derivative is a hydrate of erythrocin and salt, the molecular formula is C37H67NO13.A.nH2O, and n is between 1.0 and 11.0; and A is selected from an organic acid or inorganic acid, and one of lactobionic acid, thiocyanic acid, maleic acid, fumaric acid, thiocyanic acid, acetic acid, methanesulfonic acid, benzene sulfonic acid, nicotinic acid, lactic acid, citric acid, tartaric acid, aspartic acid, glutamic acid and phosphoric acid. The hydrate has better water solubility and storing stability, and is suitably used for preparing medicaments of treating and preventing infectious diseases of human or animals caused due to sensitive bacteria of Gram-positive or negative bacteria.
Abstract An open shell CNDO method for the calculation of energies of singlet excited electronic states of molecules has been applied to fulminic acid (HCNO) and isocyanic acid (HNCO). An optimization technique was developed to find the molecular geometry at the energy minimum. In the first singlet excited state of fulminic acid cis and trans isomers are predicted with the trans form the more stable. A similar geometry is calculated for isocyanic acid and is broadly in support of earlier experimental results from partial analysis of the ultraviolet absorption spectrum.
Two varieties of oats, Kanota and Ventura, with a graded moisture range of 8, 10, 12, and 14% were fumigated with methyl bromide in 100-cubic-foot gastight chambers at an exposure period of 72 hours. Various dosages and temperatures were used. One variety of oats, Kanota, was fumigated with methyl bromide and hydrocyanic acid under varying conditions of temperature, exposure, and dosages of fumigant. One half of the fumigated samples of seed received one fumigation; the others were fumigated twice. Two series of germination tests were made, the first within 5 days following fumigation of seeds, and the second after 84 days of postfumigation storage at 50° F. ::: ::: Under the conditions of the experiments, the germination of oats was not affected by fumigation with hydrocyanie acid. Dosage, temperature, period of exposure, and the moisture content of seeds were variables found to be most important in contributing to injury from methyl bromide. Although oat seeds were relatively resistant to fumigation with methyl bromide, some injury did occur.
Reaction of 4-methyl-3,4-epoxytetrahydropyran with phenols, thiols, thiocyanic acid and benzoic acid, thiourea, and with sodium sulfite and thiosulfate occurs with opening of the epoxide ring. Using IR spectroscopy it was shown that the products occur via trans-diaxial opening of the oxide ring at the least-substituted carbon atom.
ABSTRACT To the Editor.— My medical practice is limited to the area of alcoholism and drug addiction, and I often lecture to various concerned groups on the topics of drug abuse. Recently, during the question-and-answer period of my presentation to an industrial safety conference, I was made aware of yet another consequence of amyl nitrite abuse. Amyl nitrite is found in emergency treatment kits for hydrocyanic acid poisoning. Representatives from two plants reported that the theft of the amyl nitrite ampules from these kits has become a problem. Of course, appropriate measures were rapidly taken to correct this situation. However, this serves as another grim reminder that we physicians must be constantly alert to the theft of abusable drugs and the possible ramifications of such theft. Paraprofessionals involved in the provision of emergency services must also be educated to this problem to guard against it.
Abstract In order to further investigate the thermal characterization of hydrogen cyanide polymers, in this study we focus on the thermogravimetry (TG) of three polymer samples obtained from different synthetic routes. The first one was synthesized from an aqueous solution of equimolar amounts of sodium cyanide (NH 4 Cl) and ammonium chloride (NaCN). The second one was produced from the polymerization of HCN gas in water, HCN being obtained from the reaction of NH 3 , CH 4 and air over a platinum catalyst at 1100 °C; and the last sample was synthesized from anhydrous HCN, produced by the action of sulfuric acid on sodium cyanide. Differential thermal analysis (DTA), differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) and a coupled TG-mass spectrometer (MS) were used to evaluate the thermal behavior of these black polymers, which are of significant interest in prebiotic chemistry but also in extraterrestrial chemistry. All the samples present a similar thermal behavior. Following a dehydration process, three pyrolysis stages are observed, which occur over the temperature ranges of 150–300 °C, 300–550 °C and above 550 °C. However, we observe that the char-forming reactions at higher temperatures, in the carbonization stage, is strongly dependent on the HCN polymer sample and the presence or absence of oxygen. During each stage, the same volatilization processes take place regardless of the type of HCN polymer sample. Deamination and dehydration reactions dominate in the low temperature range while thermal depolymerization, releasing HCN, and a denitrogenation process occur mainly at elevated temperatures. The release of isocyanic acid (or cyanic acid) and formamide are also identified within a wide range of temperatures. We discuss and interpret the thermal decomposition behavior to be related to the polymerization mechanisms in accordance with recent studies. We outline that the thermal profiles could be a good fingerprint of this complex macromolecular prebiotic material, whose structure still remains uncertain, despite of their intensive studies over the last fifty years.
Donor–acceptor interactions of Lewis bases, such as amine, phosphine, cyanic acid and phosphaalkine with various phosphinidene complexes carrying a W(CO)5 fragment are studied by means of density functional calculations. Accordingly, the donor interactions can be divided into two categories. In terms of energy an amine binds stronger than a phosphine to a phosphinidene, the resulting DoP bond is longer (NP) or equal (PP) with respect to a corresponding single bond. This tendency is also revealed in the corresponding transition metal complexes. In all cases the singlet-triplet energy separation values of the resulting donor-adducts are fairly small. A donor with a -system, such as HCN yields a shorter NP bond, but the resulting donor-adduct is even less stable with respect to decomposition into a singlet PH complex and cyanic acid. Similar considerations with HCP reveal only a weak donor addition of this fragment to the parent PH complex but a facile rearrangement of the adduct to the diphosphirene transition metal complex. The diaminophosphino–PH possesses a singlet ground state, its corresponding transition metal complex reveals a fairly small singlet–triplet energy separation. It can be considered as a nucleophilic PH complex in contrast to the other homologues which reveal an electrophilic behaviour. © 2002 Published by Elsevier Science B.V.
Abstract The kinetic chemisorption of cyanogen chloride (ClCN) on whetlerite was studied with constant flow parameters. There is a concurrent evolution of CO2 during the removal of ClCN which is attributed to the reaction of the hydrolysis product, HCl, with the original carbonate content of the whetlerite. Two molecules of ClCN were retained and one molecule of CO2 was formed. The slowly decreasing appearance of CO2 after the cut-off of ClCN was attributed to the surface migration of HCl from the reaction site to the carbonate site. A scavenger for HCl added to the original whetlerite provided longer breakthrough times for ClCN. The overall decrease in BET surface area after the challenge is ascribed to the retention of nonvolatile hydrolysis products: cyanic acid (HOCN) and/or the trimer cyanuric acid.
Ficus exasperate (ipin) ans Spondias mombin (iyeye) leaves are traditionally added to cassava roots during production of lafun by local processors in Ekiti State. In this study, the effect of steeping these leaves on cassava roots during fermentation and quality of lafun was investigated. The chemical properties (pH, titratable acidity, retting, and hydrocyanic acid (HCN)) content of the fermenting mash were determined every 24h.
It has been demonstrated that the binding of cyanic acid, formed from urea which is increased in renal failure, to hemoglobin (Hb) results in the formation of HbA1. The combination of Hb and cyanic acid is called carbamylation, a nonspecific reaction between protein and cyanic acid. It is theoretically considered that like glycation, carbamylation may occur between cyanic acid and not only Hb but also various peptides and proteins. In the present study, hormones were subjected to carbamylation, and the effects of carbamylation on the biological activity of the hormones, i.e. 3,5,3'-L-triiodothyronine (T3) and insulin, were investigated. Carbamylated T3 and carbamylated insulin were synthesized in vitro, using KCNO. The carbamylated hormones were isolated by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The biological activities of carbamylated T3 and carbamylated insulin were assayed by employing the metamorphosis of tadpoles (Rana nigromaculata) and the glucose oxidation of fat cells or the receptor binding capacity of rat hepatocytes, respectively. The biological activity of carbamylated T3 was less than about 1/13 of that of T3, and the binding activity of carbamylated insulin was 1/5 of that of insulin. Therefore, carbamylation of hormones may be an important factor in the analysis of clinical conditions, especially the endocrine condition in renal failure.
The khapra beetle, Trogoderma granarium Everts, a serious pest of stored grains and ::: other food products in India and elsewhere, has recently been found in 23 counties ::: of California, Arizona, and New Mexico. It thrives on hot, dry conditions and has ::: proved exceptionally difficult to control. The State Department of Agriculture is ::: conducting an eradication program against it in California. ::: Studies have been conducted on factors affecting the development of this beetle and ::: on its climatic adaptation, and tests have been carried out to find more effective ::: control measures. The following are the principal results to date. ::: An increase in temperature from 70°F to 93°-95° decreased the average length of a ::: generation from 220 days to 26 days; light conditions had little effect on it. At ::: 90° egg viability averaged 94 per cent, and 93 eggs were laid per female. The length ::: of a generation varied widely on different foods. ::: A few larvae survived exposures of 240 minutes to -6°F and of 51 days to temperatures ::: fluctuating daily between 25° and 48°. Eggs and pupae were more susceptible. To obtain ::: a 95 per cent kill (at 50 per cent relative humidity) required 960 minutes for larvae ::: and 420 minutes for pupae at 118°, 8 minutes for both stages at 131°. These findings ::: indicate that the species is capable of becoming a pest of grain stored in piles or ::: sacks in the field in such ellmctes as that of Imperial Valley, California. ::: Among ten fumigants tested (at 70°F and with 2-, 8-, and 24-hour exposures), hydrocyanic ::: acid and acrylonitrile were the most toxic to khapra-beetle larvae and pupae. Eggs ::: were more susceptible than the other immature stages to the majority of these fumigants. ::: Hydrocyanic acid was the only one tested to which all three immature stages of the ::: khapra beetle were more susceptible than granary-weevil adults. Fumigation for 12 ::: hours with methyl bromide, hydrocyanic acid or acrylonitrile showed little evidence ::: of reduced seed germination when moisture content of seed was less than 10 per cent. ::: Khapra-beetle larvae were more resistant to wheat treated with a piperonyl butoxide-pyrethrin ::: dust mixture or with a malathion dust than were the adults of the granary weevil, ::: rice weevil, and lesser grain borer.
Aside processing the cassava to lafun, its root can be cooked and eaten while the fermented and ground tubers could be baked into different processes. Lafun is one of the local names given to 164 flour made from cassava in Nigeria. It is produced through the submerged soaking of cassava roots in water for about 2-3 days in order for fermentation process to take place, the product will be sun dry before milling of dried fermented roots to flour. The fermented cassava flour could then be mixed with boiled water to form dough and consumed with soup. It is carbohydrate food that can be eaten with soup. The protein source is the fish or meat in the soup. During fermentation of cassava to lafun various microorganisms were involved and these include Bacillus substilis, Klebsiela spp., Candida tropicals (Oyewole, 1990). The major limitation in lafun like other cassava product includes low protein content, low minerals, and vitamins and present of cyanide toxicity. Cassava is protein(1-2%) deficient, though it contains low amount of methionine, lysine, and tyrosine ( Akubor and Ukwuru ,2003) . Cassava cause toxicity through hydrolytic breakdown and release hydrocyanic acid. However glycosides present are reduced to safe levels by traditional method of processing. Efforts have been made to address the protein deficiencies of cassava product including lafun. One possible solution has been the incorporation of soya beans to cassava products.
In Central Europe, this complex includes three species that differ in morphology and in the number of chromosomes they carry: Molinia caerulea (L.) Moench, M. arundinacea Schrank subsp. arundinacea and M. arundinacea subsp. freyi (Dančak et al. 2012) . They are perennial grasses that form large dense tufts. In Ukraine they are characterized by a broad ecological amplitude ranging from wetlands, wet meadows to forests (Prokudin 1977) . The European variant of the Molinia genus is represented by M. caerulea, in Ukraine, which is a strong competitor in wet nutrient-poor meadows (Landolt 1977 , Taylor et al. 2001 , Marrs et al. 2004 , Havlova 2006 . This competitiveness of the M. caerulea can also be explained by the presence of hydrocyanic acid stored in its stems and inflorescences ( Tsvelev 1976) . Hence, the species is inedible for animals. However, Dančak et al. (2012) suggest a high probability of M. arundinacea Schrank subsp. arundinacea Schrank occurring in the Ukraine, as well. According to Tsvelev (1976) , the subspecies Molinia caerulea subsp. litoralis (Host) Paul is present in the Carpathians. In contrast to M. caerulea; this subspecies grows in open forests, forest clearings, and placers in the lower and middle mountain belts. The author suggests that the priority name of the species is M. arundinacea Schrank, although, this is more likely to be M. arundinacea Schrank subsp. arundinacea (Schrank) K. Richt.
Abstract Ammonia, hydrocyanic acid, benzaldehyde, benzoic acid, phenylacetic acid and 2,5-diphenylpyrazine were identified among the products of the reaction of 1-nitro-2-phenylethane with alkali. A reaction mechanism is proposed to account for their formation.
A preliminary hazard analysis of 3D printing included process monitoring in two working environments; a small well ventilated materials development laboratory with a Makerbot printer (polylactic acid filament) and a poorly ventilated lab, home-like in terms of room size and ventilation with a Da Vinci XYZ printer (acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene). Particle number, size and mass concentration were measured within the printer enclosures, breathing zone, and room simultaneously. Number concentrations were elevated above background typically in the 103–105 particles/cm3 range. During printing >99% of the aerosol number concentration was within the ultrafine particulate (UFP) and nanoscale size range. Condensed aerosol emissions from the Da Vinci XYZ printer was examined by Fourier infra-red spectroscopy and suggested isocyanic acid and n-decane as two possible chemical components. Light microscopy and transmission electron microscopy with energy dispersive analysis by X-ray identified individual and aggregated particles highly suggestive of combustion, accompanied by a variety of metallic elements. Adverse health effects associated with 3D printing related to chemical vapor off-gassing in well ventilated space appears to be low. At this point the significance of ultrafine particle emission is under growing suspicion in its relationship to inflammatory, pulmonary, and cardiovascular effects. Preliminary recommendations for particulate control developed from this analysis are based on good industrial hygiene practice rather than compelling adverse health effects.
Because of the great variety of crops grown commercially in California, the economic entomologist must specialize to a large degree in order best to serve. There is much waste and injury in the use of insecticides when a proper scientific basis for action is lacking. In this, both the farmer and the entomologist are often at fault. An unbiased investigation of the fundamental principles of insect control will in some instances at least, reveal astonishing discrepancies in our present methods of procedure. Intensive laboratory experiments coupled with carefully planned field investigations are essential. ::: ::: Thus experiments with newly hatched codling moth larvae which attack both the apple and English walnut in California, indicate that the efficacy of lead arsenate in protecting apples in particular against side entrances and stings has been greatly overestimated. Greater attention to orchard and packing house sanitation is urged. ::: ::: With what appears to be a gradual development of resistance of the black scale of oranges to hyrocyanic acid gas and the well known resistance of the citrus red spiders to the same gas, oil sprays are now being used quite extensively in the citrus areas of California. A strong tendency to use oil sprays against red spiders on prunes is evident in many parts. The use of oil sprays presents many difficult problems such as possible injury to the tree and discoloration of the fruit, but much trouble has already been obviated by the development of a quick breaking emulsion of highly refined lubricating oils. ::: ::: The large amount of damage done by the garden centipede to asparagus and that of certain soil infesting nematodes has created a strong demand for soil fumigants. It has been found, however, that the damage to asparagus done by the garden centipede can be entirely overcome by proper flooding where that is possible. On the other hand, an effective soil fumigant is now available in the xanthates which are valuable when properly employed on account of the decomposition product, carbon disulfide. ::: ::: Sugar beets, one of the pioneer crops of California, have been threatened for some years by a disease known as curly-top which is carried by a very small leafhopper. The control of this insect presents much difficulty on account of its migratory habits. Cotton is one of the newer crops of California but is already valued at over $10,000,000. To keep this crop free from the pests so prevalent in the South is one of our problems, and to prevent native insects from transferring their affections from wild vegetation to this valuable crop is another. ::: ::: California beekeepers have long disagreed as to the nectar value of the California buckeye. It is now known that when severe droughts curtail the nectar possibilities of other plants and bees are compelled to use the buckeye alone, poisoning of the bees is pretty sure to follow, while mixed with nectar from other plants, that of the buckeye is harmless. Similar climatic peculiarities limit the use of top minnows (Gambusia) in anopheline mosquito control. ::: ::: Great differences in topography within a short distance, likewise ocean and desert influences within a narrow range, greatly influence climate and make it dangerous to generalize in control recommendations.
Abstract Four experiments were carried out to evaluate the effects of processing methods on the digestibility and palatability of cassava roots (CR) in growing pigs. Fresh CR were ground with a vegetable biomass chopper (ground CR) or manually chopped with a slicing tool into thin chips (chopped CR). An electric grinder with a 3 mm diameter screen was used to make CR meal from dried ground CR obtained after a 6-h drying period (meal-6 h). The ground, chopped and meal forms were chosen because they are the main forms used for feeding pigs in such geographical areas. In Experiment 1, changes in hydrocyanic acid (HCN) and dry matter (DM) contents in chopped and ground CR were measured during a 24-h drying period in a solar dryer. The minimum drying times required to reach the minimum HCN content in ground and chopped CR were 3 and 6 h, respectively. The second and third experiments were designed to determine the effects of the processing form (chopped, ground or meal forms; Experiment 2) and the effects of increasing incorporation rates of ground CR (Experiment 3) on the coefficient of total tract apparent digestibility (CTTAD) of nutrients and energy in the experimental diets. In Experiment 2, a total of six pigs were studied in a 3 × 3 Latin square design. Each pig was fed alternately with one of the three experimental cassava forms, being offered 400 g/kg DM of CR products and 600 g/kg DM of a control corn soya bean meal (CSBM) diet. In Experiment 3, four pigs were studied in a 4 × 4 Latin square design and the dietary treatment included a gradual increase in ground CR from 0 to 600 g/kg of DM offered in the CSBM diet. In Experiment 2, it was found that the energy CTTAD of the experimental diet was not affected by the cassava form (chopped, ground or meal) (P>0.05), and averaged 0.927. In Experiment 3, the CTTAD of organic matter and energy linearly increased (P Experiment 4 was designed to investigate dietary preferences between a CSBM diet and the CR offered in chopped, ground or meal forms with different drying durations (3 or 6 h). Variations in the palatability of CR products were mainly related to differences in the DM and HCN contents. From the results obtained in Experiments 2–4, the ground CR dried for 6 h appeared to be the most appropriate form for incorporating cassava roots into pig feed under the conditions of a small-scale farming system.
The history of occupational exposure limits dates back more than one century (Lehmann 1866). They were introduced in the interest of employers as well as employees: employers were trying to preserve work forces, and employees were striving for social security. From the very beginning of establishing exposure limits, both observations on humans and animal experiments were used to explore the borderline between the state of health and the first signs of intoxication; the standards were then formulated as maximal tolerable concentrations in the air at the workplace. The philosophy behind standard setting was to exploit fully the range of concentrations between zero and a determinable threshold of toxic effects so that the limit value was identical with, or closely below the lowest effective concentration. Some experimental evidence was provided for the existence of “thresholds”, as for instance with hydrocyanic acid, a completely reversible toxicant (Flury and Heubner 1919). For almost 6 decades, these occupational exposure limits prevailed as the only type of standard to protect human health. They were entirely health-based and intended to serve as recommendations for industrial hygiene inspectors, employers and employees.
The rotational spectra of thioisocyanic acid (HNCS), and its three energetic isomers (HSCN, HCNS, and HSNC) have been observed at high spectral resolution by a combination of chirped-pulse and Fabry-P\'{e}rot Fourier-transform microwave spectroscopy between 6 and 40~GHz in a pulsed-jet discharge expansion. Two isomers, thiofulminic acid (HCNS) and isothiofulminic acid (HSNC), calculated here to be 35-37~kcal/mol less stable than the ground state isomer HNCS, have been detected for the first time. Precise rotational, centrifugal distortion, and nitrogen hyperfine coupling constants have been determined for the normal and rare isotopic species of both molecules; all are in good agreement with theoretical predictions obtained at the coupled cluster level of theory. On the basis of isotopic spectroscopy, precise molecular structures have been derived for all four isomers by correcting experimental rotational constants for the effects of rotation-vibration calculated theoretically. Formation and isomerization pathways have also been investigated; the high abundance of HSCN relative to ground state HNCS, and the detection of strong lines of SH using CH$_3$CN and H$_2$S, suggest that HSCN is preferentially produced by the radical-radical reaction HS + CN. A radio astronomical search for HSCN and its isomers has been undertaken toward the high-mass star-forming region Sgr B2(N) in the Galactic Center with the 100 m Green Bank Telescope. While we find clear evidence for HSCN, only a tentative detection of HNCS is proposed, and there is no indication of HCNS or HSNC at the same rms noise level. HSCN, and tentatively HNCS, displays clear deviations from a single-excitation temperature model, suggesting weak masing may be occurring in some transitions in this source.
Imenes most readily add amines and other nucleophilic reagents, such as water, alcohols, mercaptans, hydrogen sulphide, hydrocyanic acid. Bis-methylsulphonyl-N-methylimene, which was studied more extensively, proved to possess not only electrophilic but also nucleophilic properties. Thus it adds HCl and can be applied in the Friedel-Crafts reaction.
Abstract A liquid–liquid extractive separation between hafnium and zirconium from thiocyanic acid medium using the mixtures of diisobutyl ketone (DIBK) and di (2-ethylhexyl) phosphoric acid (P204) as the extractant was developed. The effects of the aqueous acidity, the concentration of P204, the contacting time, the concentration of NH 4 SCN, and the concentration of (NH 4 ) 2 SO 4 and NaCl on the extractive separation of the two metal ions were investigated. It is observed that hafnium was enriched in the organic layer while zirconium enriched in the aqueous layer in DIBK-P204 system. The optimum conditions for hafnium and zirconium separation were that the aqueous acidity is 1.0 mol/L, the concentration of P204 in the organic phase is 10% (v/v), the contacting time is 15 min, the concentration of NH 4 SCN is 4.0 mol/L, and the concentration of NaCl is about 2.0–3.0 mol/L. Under this condition, the separation factor of hafnium and zirconium is up to 10.5.
Isocyanic acid, m-phenylenediiso-propylidene (m-TMXDI)-based anionic poly(urethane-urea) dispersions were prepared by the prepolymer mixing process. The equivalent ratio of NCO/OH was kept constant at 1.8, while 2,2-bis(hydroxyl methyl) propionic acid (DMPA) used was varied from 3 to 10 wt %. The colloidal stability of poly(urethane-urea) dispersions arose entirely from the presence of ionized carboxylic acid groups. The chemical structure of poly(urethane-urea) dispersions with various amount of DMPA were identified by FTIR and 13C NMR analysis. The test results showed that the hydrophilicity of poly(urethane-urea) dispersions were increased with increase in DMPA content. The degree of chain extension was much lower than the values predicted theoretically due to the side reaction of a small amount of hydrophilic isocyanate-terminated prepolymer with water. The average particle size of poly(urethane-urea) dispersions were decreased with an increase in DMPA content, and this lead to an increase in viscosity. Also, the thermal degradation behavior were measured and was shown that the initial degradation temperature shifted to lower temperature with an increase in DMPA content. © 2006 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Appl Polym Sci 102: 5737–5746, 2006
The resistance of the California red scale, Aonidiella aurantii (Mask.), to hydrocyanic acid is a matter of practical as well as theoretical interest. Certain strains have become highly resistant to this fumigant, whereas other strains show no such resistance. It is evident from genetic studies that resistance is inherited, but there are no discernible morphological characteristics in which the resistant and nonresistant strains differ. Physiological differences between the strains must be the basis of variations in resistance to hydrocyanic acid. It is the purpose of this work to elucidate the nature of these differences.
From Scope of the Work and Findings: "The work was divided into two parts, namely, field work and laboratory investigations. The most interesting and important of the laboratory investigations. The most interesting and important of the laboratory findings were: (1) The presence of hydrogen sulphide (H2S) in the gases and vapors from light Mexican crude; (2) the extreme toxicity of H2S; (3) the absence of arsine, stibine, phosgene, hydrocyanic acid, and other toxic substances; (4) treatment recommended for poisoning by H2S; (5) use and limitations of oxygen breathing apparatus, hose masks, and gas masks."
Biocatalytic processes are useful methods for the production of chiral intermediates. As an example, alcohol dehydrogenases are applied for the production of chiral alcohols by asymmetric reduction of prochiral ketones. From this class of enzymes alcohol dehydrogenase from Lactobacillus brevis will be described with respect to its industrial application. The process for the production of methyl (R)-3-hydroxybutyrate using this enzyme is discussed in more detail. The application of alcohol dehydrogenases can be limited by the commercial availability of the starting material as, for instance, in the case of the synthesis of chiral α-hydroxy acids. For these products asymmetric addition of hydrocyanic acid to aldehydes catalyzed by hydroxynitrile lyases such as (S)-oxynitrilase from Manihot esculenta is a complementary approach. Also, this enzyme will be characterized in more detail with respect to its industrial production and application.
Hevea brasiliensis , the rubber tree , is a tropical tree belonging to the family Euphorbiaceae , native to Amazon basin in Brazil and most economically important member of the genus Hevea , because of the milky latex extracted from the tree is the primary source of natural rubber . The young leaves of this tree are poisonous to most animals. In India it is fo und in areas where plantation is done for the commercial purpose. Hence poisoning in ruminants due to rubber tree is a rare phenomenon unless they have access to it. In the present investigation there were deaths of six adult Malnad G idda cattle in Hal e Ik keri village of Shimoga , Karnataka , India in a span of two days. An attempt has been made to know the cause of sudden mortality in Malnad Gidda Cattle. Post - mortem examination was conducted on carcasses and samples were collected for the detection of toxic principle, Hydrocyanic acid (HCN) by Picric acid paper spot test . The young rubber tree leaves showed positive for the presence of toxic principle HCN. HCN is one of the most potent, rapid - acting poisons known. When a lethal dose is consumed, animals die from asphyxiation in a few minutes. Deaths in animals due to HCN poisoning, can be reduced by administering with a mixture of sodium thiosulfate and methylene blue.
5,6-Dioxy-quinazoline diones of formula (I) are prepd. by reacting a cpd. of formula (II) with KMnO4 to produce a nitrobenzoic acid of formula (III), reacting (III) with H to produce an aminobenzoic acid of formula (IV), and reacting (IV) with a cyanic acid salt. In the formulas, R1 and R2 are each lower alkyl, or together methylenedioxy; R3 is H; Y and Z are each H, alkyl, carboalkoxy, cyano, methanesulphonyl, carboxamido or halo. (I) are useful as cardiotonic agents.
Abstract Bacterium Pseudomonas spp. olive green (OG) was isolated from marine water, yet, it was characterized as plant growth promoting bacterium (PGPB). Multiple plant growth promoting traits of OG isolate were determined in vitro. It was tested positive for Indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) production with 29 µg ml−1 of IAA yield, phosphate solubilization with 34 µg ml−1 solubilization of Tri-calcium-phosphate and it showed maximum of 32 µg ml−1 of ammonia production. OG isolate was affirming siderophore production, hydrocyanic acid (HCN) production and catalase production. 16S rRNA gene sequence comparison was used to identify the isolate which showed its closest neighbor to be Pseudomonas fluoroscens strain BCPBMS-1. Efficacy of this PGPB was tested on the seedling growth of two test plants chickpea and green gram. Both the test plants treated with OG-based talc bioformulation showed significant growth promotion. Chickpea showed enhanced overall fresh biomass by 24%, overall dry biomass by 27% was observed ...
Abstract Inosine 5′-monophosphate in acidic form and its lithium, potassium, magnesium, calcium, strontium and barium were prepared from the sodium salt, characterized by elemental analysis and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy and submitted to thermogravimetry (TG), differential thermal analysis (DTA), differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) and thermogravimetry coupled to infrared spectroscopy (TG-FTIR) of the volatile products evolved during heating. All the salts were hydrated containing from 4 to 7.5 H2O. After dehydration these salts decomposed releasing the nitrogenous base followed by the ribose group, and producing pyrophosphates as final residue. Evolved Gas Analysis (EGA) reveled the release of water, isocyanic acid and hydrocyanic acid during decomposition of the organic moiety. It was observed only water loss up to 200 °C. At temperatures above 200 °C, the nucleotides were unstable and decomposed, implying that foods containing those additives should be processed below this temperature. Finally, a general mechanism for the decomposition of the inosinates was proposed.
The mechanism of the dimerization of HNCO was investigated using the ab initio method. The barrier heights, reaction energies and geometrical parameters of the reactants, products, intermediates and transition state were studied. It was found that there are possibly three reaction channels. The B3LYP 6-311++G(3df,2p)//CCSD(T) 6-311++G(d,p) calculated barriers show that reaction of formation of four-membered ring O=CNHNHC=O is more favorable than formations of CO 2 or CO. The reaction pathway of the formation of carbon monoxide from the dimerization of isocyanic acid is a new pathway. Its rate constant is very small, k = 2.62´ 10 -19 cm 3 /molecule/s at 2500K, 1atm, which is about 2000 times as small as rate constant of formation CO from a bimolecular mechanism of HNCO with Ar.
The rotational spectra of thioisocyanic acid (HNCS), and its three energetic isomers (HSCN, HCNS, and HSNC) have been observed at high spectral resolution by a combination of chirped-pulse and Fabry-Pérot Fourier-transform microwave spectroscopy between 6 and 40 GHz in a pulsed-jet discharge expansion. Two isomers, thiofulminic acid (HCNS) and isothiofulminic acid (HSNC), calculated here to be 35-37 kcal/mol less stable than the ground state isomer HNCS, have been detected for the first time. Precise rotational, centrifugal distortion, and nitrogen hyperfine coupling constants have been determined for the normal and rare isotopic species of both molecules; all are in good agreement with theoretical predictions obtained at the coupled cluster level of theory. On the basis of isotopic spectroscopy, precise molecular structures have been derived for all four isomers by correcting experimental rotational constants for the effects of rotation-vibration calculated theoretically. Formation and isomerization pathways have also been investigated; the high abundance of HSCN relative to ground state HNCS, and the detection of strong lines of SH using CH 3 CN and H 2 S, suggest that HSCN is preferentially produced by the radical-radical reaction HS + CN. A radio astronomical search for HSCN and its isomers has been undertaken toward the high-mass star-forming region Sgr B2(N) in the Galactic Center with the 100 m Green Bank Telescope. While we find clear evidence for HSCN, only a tentative detection of HNCS is proposed, and there is no indication of HCNS or HSNC at the same rms noise level. HSCN, and tentatively HNCS, displays clear deviations from a single-excitation temperature model, suggesting weak masing may be occurring in some transitions in this source.
Their results show that l-propadienone is at least an order of magnitude less abundant than cyclopropenone. Propynal [HC(O)CCH], a low-lying isomer of comparable stability to l-propadienone, 7-11 is more than an order of magnitude more abundant than cyclopropenone. The authors suggest that these large variations in abundance could arise from different formation pathways on the surface of interstellar dust grains, for which some supporting laboratory evidence has been found from surface reaction experiments. 7 a National Radio Astronomy Observatory, 520 Edgemont Rd, Charlottesville, VA USA 22903. Because nearly all well-known interstellar species have high-energy isomers with significant barriers to either isomerization or dissociation, there is much applied interest in identifying and precisely characterizing the rotational spectra of these metastable forms. Isocyanic acid (HNCO) was one of the first polyatomic molecules detected in space, 12, 13 but owing to the lack of laboratory rest frequencies, it was not until fairly recently that its higher energy isomers cyanic acid, HOCN (24.7 kcal/mol above ground), 14 and fulminic acid, HCNO (70.7 kcal/mol), were observed in interstellar molecular clouds. 15, 16 Soon after its initial astronomical identification, 15 rotational lines of HOCN were reported in at least five other sources, 17, 18 findings which suggest that this isomer and HCNO are common constituents of the ISM. Abundance ratios and formation pathways of the HNCO isomers as a function of visual extinction, density, and temperature have now been the subject of several chemical modeling studies. [18] [19] [20] Among the four singlet isomers, only isofulminic acid (HONC) has yet to be detected in space.
Isothiocyanic acid (HNCS), the simplest isothiocyanate, is calculated to be the most stable molecule in the [H, N, C, S] family, followed by thiocyanic acid (HSCN), lying about 6 kcal/mol above HNCS. 27, 28 These are followed by thiofulminic acid (HCNS) and isothiofulminic acid (HSNC), which are comparably stable to each other at 35.1 kcal/mol and 36.6 kcal/mol above HNCS, respectively (this work). Each isomer is calculated to possess a singlet ground state with a nearly linear heavy atom backbone, a planar equilibrium structure, and a large permanent electric dipole moment. Fig. 1 summarizes a number of the salient properties of the four singlet HNCS isomers.
The most popular and widely consumed species of cocoyam are the Colocasia, xanthosoma, alocasia, caryotosperma chamissonis and the amophophallus Campanulatus and their chemical constituents vary with varieties 6 . Cocoyams are rich in moisture content with highest values of 75.4% 6 while observing values of 69.1% and 67.1% for Colocasia esculenta and xanthosoma sagittifolium. The crude protein content for C.esculenta is about 2.1% 6, 7 . The fat content for C. esculenta ranges between 0.1%-0.3% [6] [7] [8] . The ash content for C.esculenta falls within the range of 0.80%-1.1% 8 . Total oxalate in C.esculenta is estimated at 65 mg/100 g and the hydrocyanic acid and phytic acid values of 1.04±0.06 mg/100 g and 40.9±2.9 mg/100 g respectively 1 .
Abstract. The mechanism of the dimerisation of HNCO was investigated using the ab initio method. The barrier heights, reaction energies and geometrical parameters of the reactants, intermediates and transition state, and products were studied. It was found that there were possibly three reaction channels. The B3LYP 6-311++G(3df,2p)//CCSD(T) 6-311++G(d,p) calculated barriers showed that the reaction of formation of four-membered ring O=CNHNHC=O was more favourable than the formation of CO2 or CO. The formation of carbon monoxide from the dimerisation of isocyanic acid was a new pathway. Its rate constant was very small, k = 2.6210 -19 cm 3 /molecule/s at 2,500 K and 1 atm, which was about 2,000 times as small as the rate constant of formation of CO with a bimolecular mechanism of HNCO with Ar.
Keywords: Potential energy surface, isocyanic acid, density function theory, dimerisation
Emissions of CO to the atmosphere come from a range of sources, but mostly as a by-product of incomplete combustion, whether it is biomass burning, domestic heating systems or vehicle exhausts. Therefore, the understanding of the formation of CO from various sources can help to find a more simple solution for reducing the concentration of CO in the environment. This is always an interesting topic for scientists [10, 15, 21] . At present, the formation of CO from the bimolecular reaction of isocyanic acid has not been studied yet.
Isocyanic acid (HNCO) can be prepared in the pure form by reaction of KOCN or NaOCN with stearic or oxalic acid [8] MOCN + R-COOH  HNCO + R-COOM 2 MOCN + (COOH)2  2 HNCO + (COOM)2 (M = Na, K; R = C17H35)
The identification, characterisation and investigation of the thermal stability of HNCO and the evidence for a possible existence of "dicyanic acid" (HNCO)2 have been studied in the gas phase, liquid and solid state in the temperature range of -80 °C to 160 °C by vibrational and
Emissions of CO to the atmosphere come from a range of sources, but mostly as a by-product of incomplete combustion, whether it is biomass burning, domestic heating systems or vehicle exhausts. Therefore, the understanding of the formation of CO from various sources can help to find a more simple solution for reducing the concentration of CO in the environment. This is always an interesting topic for scientists [10, 15, 21] . At present, the formation of CO from the bimolecular reaction of isocyanic acid has not been studied yet.
Isocyanic acid (HNCO) can be prepared in the pure form by reaction of KOCN or NaOCN with stearic or oxalic acid [8] MOCN + R-COOH  HNCO + R-COOM 2 MOCN + (COOH)2  2 HNCO + (COOM)2 (M = Na, K; R = C17H35)
The identification, characterisation and investigation of the thermal stability of HNCO and the evidence for a possible existence of "dicyanic acid" (HNCO)2 have been studied in the gas phase, liquid and solid state in the temperature range of -80 °C to 160 °C by vibrational and 24 NMR spectroscopy and mass spectrometry by Fischer et al. [8] . The polymerisation of HNCO can produce a mixture of cyanuric acid (trimmer of HNCO) and cyamelide (HNCO)n. Isocyanic acid and its isomers play an important role in the RAPRENOx (RAPid REduction of Nitrogen Oxides) process for NO reduction in combustion [16] and are a source of formation of NH -one of the intermediates in the formation of NH3 upon sequential hydrogenation of N atoms [13, 5] . Isocyanic acid can form strong hydrogen bonds, therefore, its dimer can be easily generated [18] . In the temperature range of 823-1,220 K, a number of differential reaction mechanisms were proposed by researchers. He and Liu suggested a two-step bimolecular mechanism explaining the formation of CO2 [6] According to this mechanism, reaction (1) consists of two steps: (I) the two molecules of HNCO first react with each other to form a four-membered ring intermediate; (II) the intermediate then decomposes to form the products, namely CO2 and HNCNH.
In 1995, Feng et al. used the ab initio MP2/6-31G* method to suggested a reaction mechanism of two molecules of isocyanic acid to get another four-membered ring [6] Feng et al. concluded that the reactive ability of reaction (2) was higher than that of reaction (1) . Many groups of researchers showed that, at high temperature (T > 1,800 K), the HNCO dimerisation can follow a bimolecular mechanism with an Ar bath gas to produce carbon monoxide [12, 14, 20] . Is there the formation of CO in the bimolecular reaction of HNCO if the bath gas is not used? The purpose of this study is to answer this question by using quantum computational chemistry and at the same time again confirm a more favourable reaction pathway of the dimerisation of HNCO by calculation of the thermodynamic and kinetic properties with high accurate methods such as B3LYP/6-311++G(3df,2p) and CCSD(T)/6-311++G(d,p).
By using the density functional theory, CCSD(T) and the transition state theory methods, we found that there were three differential reactions of dimerisation of isocyanic acid. The channel for the formation of four-membered ring O=CNHNHC=O with C2h symmetry point group is the dominant reaction pathway, with a yield up to 94 %. Carbon monoxide was only produced with a negligible yield of 0.02 % following the bimolecular mechanism without the Ar bath gas.
Phthalimide (PI) and tetrahydrophthalimide (THPI) are two structurally similar compounds extensively used as intermediates for the synthesis of variety of industrial chemicals. This paper investigates the thermal decomposition of PI and THPI under oxygen rich to oxygen lean conditions, quantifying the production of toxicants and explaining their formation pathways. The experiments involved a plug flow reactor followed by silica cartridges, activated charcoal trap and a condenser, with the decomposition products identified and quantified by Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) and micro gas chromatography (μGC). The density functional theory (DFT) calculations served to obtain dissociation energies and reaction pathways, to elucidate the reaction mechanism. The oxidation of PI and THPI produced several toxic nitrogen-containing gases and volatile organic compounds, including hydrogen cyanide, isocyanic acid, nitrogen oxides, benzonitrile, maleimide and tentatively identified benzenemethanimine. The detection of dibenzo-p-dioxin (DD) and dibenzofuran (DF) suggests potential formation of the toxic persistent organic pollutants (POPs) in fires involving PI and THPI, in presence of a chlorine source. The oxidation of THPI produced 2-cyclohexen-1-one, a toxic unsaturated ketone. The results of the present study provide the data for quantitative risk assessments of emissions of toxicants in combustion processes involving PI and THPI.
The purpose of this study was to report severe keloids caused by hydrogen cyanide injury. Hydrogen cyanide poisoning is still a problem as an occupational disease in China. We report a 37-year-old man with severe hydrogen cyanide poisoning. The patient fell on the floor after inhalation of hydrogen cyanide and was burned on his back by hydrocyanic acid. Sequential treatment included amyl nitrite by inhalation, intravenous sodium nitrite 3%, and intravenous sodium thiosulfate 25%. Other treatment consisted of incision of the trachea, mannitol and furosemide, antibiotics, and nutrient support measures. The patient also received hyperbaric oxygen therapy; during the first treatment, he became apneic and cardiopulmonary resuscitation was supplied in the hyperbaric oxygen chamber. He eventually recovered, but a large amount of keloids developed on his back and buttocks.
Sixteen lactating Holstein cows were utilized in a pasture comparison between greenleaf sudangrass and sorghum-sudan hybrid SX-11. Pastures were grazed for 50 days with 10 day grazing periods per plot compare milk production and body weight change. Production of 4% fat-corrected milk was similar (P > .05) for two cow groups. However, milk production of the cows grazing sudangrass was generally more persistent during the trial. Cows grazing sudangrass gained more (P < .01) body weight during the trial. ::: ::: Digestion coefficients with Holstein steers receiving immature sorghum-sudangrass hay, for dry matter, crude protein, and energy were 59.8, 68.8 and 65.6. Differences in dry matter, crude protein, and fiber contents of the grazed forages not significant, but hydrocyanic acid content was higher (P < .05) in the sorghum-sudangrass forage. No toxicity problems were encountered during the trial.
The methods suitable for the preparation of thiocarbamates are described and illustrated by examples and procedures. They are grouped under the following headings: ::: ::: ::: ::: 1 ::: Addition of Alcohols and Thiols to Isothiocyanates ::: ::: 2 ::: Thioacylation of Amines ::: ::: ::: (a) ::: with chlorothioformates ::: ::: (b) ::: with O,S-diesters of dithiocarbonic acid ::: ::: (c) ::: with trithiocarbonates ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3 ::: Thioacylation of Alcohols, Phenols, and Thiols ::: ::: ::: (a) ::: with thiocarbamoyl chlorides ::: ::: (b) ::: with N,N-dialkylmercaptochloroformimidium chlorides ::: ::: (c) ::: with N,N′-thiocarbonyldiimidazole ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 4 ::: Reaction of Thiocyanates and Cyanates with Hydrogen Sulfide ::: ::: 5 ::: Alkylation of Metal Dithiocarbamates ::: ::: 6 ::: Additions to Thiocyanic Acid
FIELD: chemical industry. SUBSTANCE: described is method of preparing 2-hydroxy-4- methylthiobutyric acid by reacting hydrocyanic acid and methylmercaptopropion aldehyde and hydrolyzing the resulting methylmercaptopropion aldehyde cyanohydrin by means of sulfuric acid, subsequently recovering 2-hydroxy-4- methylthiobutyric acid by contacting reaction mixture with substantially water- immiscible organic solvent in extraction liquid/liquid system to form extraction solution containing solvent and 2-hydroxy-4-metylthiobutyric acid recovered from reaction mixture to form extraction solution from which 2-hydroxy-4- methylthiobutyric acid is obtained by evaporation in the form of extract. Methylmercaptopropion cayanohydrin is hydrolyzed as follows. In first stage, methylmercaptopropion aldehyde cyanohydrin is hydrolyzed with 60-85% sulfuric acid at molar ratio methylmercaptopropion aldehyde cyanohydrin to sulfuric acid from 1:0.5 to 1:1.0 at temperatures from 30 to 90 C to obtain substantially 2- hydroxy-4-methylthiobutyric acid amide which is hydrolyzed in second stage by addition of water without further additions of hydrosulfuric acid at temperatures a up to 140 C, and content of salt in reaction mixture prior to extraction in liquid system is adjusted to up to 50 wt % (wt/wt) preferably to 55 wt % (wt/wt) calculated for total amount of inorganic reaction mixture components. EFFECT: simplified process, optionally concentrated product with exceedingly low content of dimers, oligomers and by-products. 17 cl, 5 dwg, 8 ex, 15 tbl
Hydroxynitrile lyases (HNLs) catalyze the cleavage of cyanohydrins. In the reverse reaction, they catalyze the formation of carbon-carbon bonds by enantioselective condensation of hydrocyanic acid with carbonyls. In this study, we describe two proteins from endophytic bacteria that display activity in the cleavage and the synthesis reaction of (R)-mandelonitrile with up to 74% conversion of benzaldehyde (enantiopreference ee 89%). Both showed high similarity to proteins of the cupin superfamily which so far were not known to exhibit HNL activity.
Process for separating and purifying of crude 1,4-dicyano-2-butene obtained by reaction of 1,4-dichloro-2-butene and/or 1,2-dichloro-3-butene with hydrocyanic acid or sodium cyanide in the presence of one copper salt in an aqueous acidic medium by extracting the reaction mixture with methylene chloride.
Summary ::: ::: The nutritive value of leaves of four varieties of cassava – MS 6, TMS 30555, Idileruwa and TMS 30572 was evaluated based on their chemical composition and in vitro fermentation. Crude protein (CP) contents of cassava leaves ranged from 177 to 240 g/kg dry matter (DM), with TMS 30555 showing the highest CP contents. Neutral detergent fibre (NDFom) and acid detergent fibre (ADFom) contents of cassava leaves ranged from 596 to 662 and 418 to 546 g/kg DM respectively. Condensed tannin (CT) and hydrocyanic acid contents ranged from 1.0 to 3.8 g/kg and 58.5 to 86.7 mg/kg DM respectively. The range of volatile fatty acids (VFA) in the supernatant after in vitro incubation of the cassava varieties was: acetate (14.7–31.5 mmol/l); propionate (4.5–6.3 mmol/l); butyrate (3.1–3.9 mmol/l); valerate (0.4–0.6 mmol/l); iso-butyrate (0.6–1.3 mmol/l); iso-valerate (1.1–1.9 mmol/l). The acetate:propionate ratio resulting from fermentation of TMS 30555 was higher(p < 0.05) than that of the other leaves. The highest in vitro gas production of 50.5 ml/200 mg DM was recorded for MS6 being higher (p < 0.05) than for TMS 30572, but similar to TMS 30555 and Idileruwa. The DM, CP, ADF and HCN contents of cassava leaves were positively correlated with gas production, while CT content was negatively correlated with gas production. The study showed that leaves of the varieties MS 6 and TMS 30555 are superior to the others in terms of CP and gas production indicating a higher digestibility and energy content and thus nutritive potential. They may therefore serve as supplements for ruminants fed on poor roughages.
The seeds of Gardenia aqualla fruit were analysed for nutritional and anti-nutritional composition using standard analytical methods. The results obtained were moisture content (49.00 %), ash (5.20 %), crude lipid (1.90 %), crude protein (4.46%), crude fibre (1.00 %), available Carbohydrate (87.64 %) and the energy value (384.70 kcal/100g). Elemental analyses show that potassium is the most abundant element in the seeds while chromium is the least (1.30mg/100g). Lead was also detected (0.43 mg/100g). The result of anti-nutritional evaluation indicate the presence of phytate (2.74 mg/100g), soluble oxalate (2.74mg/100g), saponin (5.10 mg/100g), nitrate (0.52mg/100g) and hydrocyanic acid (0.14 mg/100g). The antinutrients to nutrients ratio indicate the availability of some important minerals. The results indicate that the seed which is usually thrown away as waste can serve as a good source of some minerals and carbohydrate which if properly utilized would assist in combating the problem of malnutrition in the society.
Certain sulphur compounds such as thiosulphuric acid, polythionic acids, thiocyanic acid, thioureas, thioamides and 2-mercapto-acids are readily electrolytically hydrogenated in 1N sulphuric acid to form hydrogen sulphide which is absorbed in potassium hydroxide solution and titrated with o-hydroxymercuribenzoic acid in the presence of dithizone as indicator. The electrolytic cell consists of a lead anode in 5N sulphuric acid, a porous ceramic tube as diaphragm, and a cathode made of soft iron. The first-order rate-constants of hydrogenation and the results of determination of sulphur in some sulphur compounds are presented. The limit of determination is 0.1 ppm.
Abstract The co-adsorption of isocyanic acid (HNCO) and water (H 2 O) and their reaction to ammonia and carbon dioxide on the anatase phase of TiO 2 were studied with ab initio density functional theory (DFT) calculations using a cluster model as well as with in situ DRIFTS investigations and kinetic experiments. We found that isocyanic acid can in principle adsorb both molecularly and dissociatively on the TiO 2 (1 0 1) surface, but the moment at which water gets involved in the process, is vital for determining the further course of the surface reaction. In the absence of water, it was found that HNCO can adsorb in molecular form on the TiO 2 surface. Assuming this case to be the first step of the HNCO hydrolysis, the surface HNCO rearranges into an intermediate complex with a modified N C O skeleton. After decarboxylation water attacks the complex from the gas phase and ammonia is finally formed. However, when water is present at the beginning of the hydrolysis reaction, it immediately attacks the NCO group present at the surface, yielding a carbamic acid complex, which is further transformed into a carbamate complex. After decarboxylation an NH 2 group remains at the surface. Finally, NH 3 is formed by hydrogen transfer from molecularly adsorbed water at a neighboring titanium center and the hydrolysis reaction is completed. Since water is always present in diesel exhaust gas, only the second mechanism is relevant under practical conditions. Moreover, the calculated energy barrier is lower for the second mechanism compared to the first reaction pathway. The comparison between the sum of the theoretical vibrational spectra of the reaction intermediates with the in situ DRIFT spectra also strongly supports the accuracy of the second reaction pathway. The experimental investigation of the kinetics of the HNCO hydrolysis on TiO 2 -anatase revealed a second order reaction—first order with respect to HNCO and first order with respect to water, which can only be reconciled with the second mechanism.
Cassava root is shortly preserved after harvesting due to its tanning and rapid physiological decomposition. Consequently, the commercial value is reduced and the craving of its finishes products. With an aim of improving physiological quality, post harvest food value “the effects of bleaching and conservation in silo-pits were evaluated. Four (04) varieties of cassava: Bocou1, Bocou2, Bocou3 and Yavo were collected fresh and healthy in 13 months of maturity. They were subjected to a bleaching (65°C /15 - 30 s) followed by a kinetic conservation (7 days of intervals) in silo-pit (1 × 0.6 × 0.5 m). Results show that Bocou2 variety has the high proteins content (2.64% ± 0.01%), followed by hydrocyanic acid (8.21 ± 0.01 mg/100 g) and total carotenoids (26.7 μg/100 g). The conservation influences positively the protein content, reducing sugars content, the dries matter content and the total phenolic compounds for all the varieties excluded Bocou2 variety whose protein content drops. As regard of the fat contents, a weak increase is observed. The sensory analysis reveals that the boiled cassava of the Yavo variety is more appreciated followed by Bocou1 variety. Concerning the Attieke, Bocou3 variety gives the more appreciated dish followed by the Yavo variety. In conclusion, the silo-pit conservation after bleaching improves the physiological quality of the cassava and the sensory taste even during 14 days. This study has a huge impact of reducing the post harvests losses and increases the commercial value of cassava in the world.
Chromatographic examination has shown that the enzymic hydrolysis of amygdalin by an almond beta-glucosidase preparation proceeds consecutively: amygdalin was hydrolysed to prunasin and glucose; prunasin to mandelonitrile and glucose; mandelonitrile to benzaldehyde and hydrocyanic acid. Gentiobiose was not formed during the enzymic hydrolysis. The kinetics of the production of mandelonitrile and hydrocyanic acid from amygdalin by the action of the beta-glucosidase preparation favour the probability that three different enzymes are involved, each specific for one hydrolytic stage, namely, amygdalin lyase, prunasin lyase and hydroxynitrile lyase. Cellulose acetate electrophoresis of the enzyme preparation showed that it contained a number of enzymically active components.
The invention discloses a process and equipment for treating wastewater containing cyanide ions. The equipment comprises a security filter, an ion exchanger loaded with cyanogen removal resin, a water injector and a sedimentation tank body. The process comprises the following steps of: after the wastewater is pre-filtered, adsorbing the cyanide ions by the cyanogen removal resin; after the cyanogen removal resin adsorbs the cyanide ions to be saturated, carrying out elution; sucking out hydrocyanic acid formed after elution under negative pressure formed at an outlet of the water injector; and mixing the sucked hydrocyanic acid and cuprous salt solution injected by the water injector to perform a reaction to form copper cyanide precipitates. The process has the principle that the cyanide ions in the wastewater are reduced by an enrichment method, and does not adopt a dispensing or electrolyzing mode just like the conventional method, and thus, the process does not need to consume any energy resources and is more environmental-friendly and the mineralization of water cannot be increased in the whole technological process.
This theoretical study investigates possible synthetic routes to cytosine, uracil and thymine in the gas phase from precursor molecules that have been detected in interstellar media. Studies at the CCSD(T)/6-311++G(d,p)//B3LYP/6-311++G(d,p) level of theory suggest that: The reactions between :CCCNH and :CCCO with monosolvated urea may constitute viable interstellar syntheses of cytosine and uracil. No low energy equilibration between cytosine and uracil has been demonstrated. The interaction of :CH2 with the 5 C–H bond of uracil may form thymine in an energetically favourable reaction, but competing reactions where :CH2 reacts with double bonds and other CH and NH bonds of uracil, reduce the effectiveness of this synthesis. The reaction between the hydrated propional enolate anion and isocyanic acid may produce thymine, in a reaction sequence where ΔGreaction(298 K) is −22 kJ mol−1 and the maximum energy requirement (barrier to the first transition state) is only 47 kJ mol−1.
Abstract The reactions of formamide and nitromethane, two possible intermediates in the selective catalytic reduction of nitrogen oxides by methane, have been studied over Co-ZSM5, H-ZSM5 and Cu-ZSM5. Formamide, a possible surrogate for nitrosomethane, reacts completely below 250°C over Co-ZSM5 with formation of NH3 and CO by one route and HCN and H2O by another. Inclusion of NO causes partial conversion of NH3 to N2 at 300°C. H-ZSM5 behaves similarly but with a higher conversion of NH3 in the presence of NO. Cu-ZSM5 gives CO2 and N2 alone, apparently because of its high oxidation activity. The reaction of nitromethane over H-ZSM5 is similar to that previously established for Co-ZSM5 with NH3 and CO2 as the initial products and subsequent N2 formation by the NH3-SCR reaction. Again N2 formation is more extensive with H-ZSM5 than Co-ZSM5 when NO is present while Cu-ZSM5 gives only CO2 and N2. Deactivation is characteristic of the reaction of nitromethane over all three zeolites at temperatures below ≈280°C with eventual breakthrough of isocyanic acid (HNCO) as a product. In situ FTIR measurements with H-ZSM5 indicate that deactivation is due to reactions of HNCO to form deposits of s-triazine compounds which can be removed by NO2. The overall conclusion is that nitromethane and formamide, and by inference nitrosomethane, react in ways which are consistent with the possibility that species of these types could be intermediates in the methane-SCR reaction over zeolite catalysts. Distinction between them is possible only with catalysts of low oxidation capability when CO formation is consistent with the involvement of nitrosomethane and CO2 formation with that of nitromethane.
Sorghum rootlets (SR), a novel feed resource, and a byproduct of sorghum malting, was characterised with respect to the proximate, mineral, energy and amino acid profile. Thirty six (36) weanling rats were subsequently used to compare the nutritive value with that of brewer's dried grain (BDG) in a 2×3 factorial experiment combining the two ingredients at three levels: 100, 200 and 300 g kg−1. The six trial diets were fed to the rats for a 28-day period. The results showed that the crude protein, crude fibre, gross energy (GE) and hydrocyanic acid (HCN) content of SR averaged 242.0±41.0 g kg−1 are 64.0±14.0 g kg−1, 3880 kcal kg−1 and 225 mg kg−1, respectively. Of the major minerals analysed, Mg was the most abundant (12.0 g kg−1) while P was the least (1.0 g kg−1). Among the trace minerals, Zn was the most abundant (150 mg kg−1) while Cu was the least (10 mg kg−1). The amino acids varied from 0.17 g(100 g)−1 methionine to 1.16 g(100 g)−1 glutamic acid. Rats fed BDG diets had better (P 0.05) by the sources or levels of inclusion of the test ingredients except, the white blood cell counts (WBC) which was higher (P<0.05) in the BDG-fed rats. Serum aspartate aminotransferase (AST; EC 2.6.1.1) activities were generally unaffected, but alanine aminotransferase (ALT; EC 2.6.1.2) activities increased progressively (P<0.05) with SR levels. Liver weights were bigger (P<0.05) and kidneys smaller P<0.05) in rats fed SR. The results suggest that SR is nutritionally inferior to BDG.
An imperative class of ?-amino acids bearing 1,2,4-triazinone and N ,C-disubstituted glycine ( 5a,b ) and/or the related systems ( 6 and 7 ) have been synthesized by the condensation of 6-(2'-aminophenyl-4-phenyl-3-thion -1,2,4-triazin-5-one ( 1 ) with the appropriate steroids, Epiandrosteron ( 2a ) and Dehydrosterone ( 2b ), followed by the addition of hydrocyanic acid. Nucleophilic substitution of mercapto group of ( 5 ) by 4-fluoroaniline and sulfanilamide give the corresponding systems 6 and 7 . Compounds 6,7, 5 , and 4 showed a high enzymatic effect as cellobiase agents against some tested fungi .
Hydroxynitrile lyases (HNLs) catalyze the cleavage of cyanohydrins. In the reverse reaction, they catalyze the formation of carbon-carbon bonds by enantioselective condensation of hydrocyanic acid with carbonyls. In this study, we describe two proteins from endophytic bacteria that display activity in the cleavage and the synthesis reaction of (R)-mandelonitrile with up to 74% conversion of benzaldehyde (enantiopreference ee 89%). Both showed high similarity to proteins of the cupin superfamily which so far were not known to exhibit HNL activity.
Cassava root is shortly preserved after harvesting due to its tanning and rapid physiological decomposition. Consequently, the commercial value is reduced and the craving of its finishes products. With an aim of improving physiological quality, post harvest food value "the effects of bleaching and conservation in silo-pits were evaluated. Four (04) varieties of cassava: Bocou1, Bocou2, Bocou3 and Yavo were collected fresh and healthy in 13 months of maturity. They were subjected to a bleaching (65˚C /15 -30 s) followed by a kinetic conservation (7 days of intervals) in silo-pit (1 × 0.6 × 0.5 m). Results show that Bocou2 variety has the high proteins content (2.64% ± 0.01%), followed by hydrocyanic acid (8.21 ± 0.01 mg/100 g) and total carotenoids (26.7 µg/100 g). The conservation influences positively the protein content, reducing sugars content, the dries matter content and the total phenolic compounds for all the varieties excluded Bocou2 variety whose protein content drops. As regard of the fat contents, a weak increase is observed. The sensory analysis reveals that the boiled cassava of the Yavo variety is more appreciated followed by Bocou1 variety. Concerning the Attiéké, Bocou3 variety gives the more appreciated dish followed by the Yavo variety. In conclusion, the silo-pit conservation after bleaching improves the physiological quality of the cassava and the sensory taste even during 14 days. This study has a huge impact of reducing the post harvests losses and increases the commercial value of cassava in the world.
The semi-cultivated plant grown in Mauritius, where it is utilised as green manure and occasionally as cattle fodder, was examined in 1900 by M. Boname, Director of the Agricultural Station at Mauritius, in order to ascertain the cause of its poisonous action. The beans were shown to furnish hydrocyanic acid when crushed and moistened with water.]: The hydrocyanic acid was found not to exist as such in the plant, but to be in some state of combination, probably in the form of a glucoside which, owing to the simultaneous occurrence in the cells of the plant of a hydrolytic enzyme, underwent hydrolysis, furnishing hydrocyanic acid as one product. No attempt, however, was made by M. Bonam4 to isolate the glucoside or enzyme, and only indirect evidence of their existence was recorded on the analogy of the bitter almond. Prussic acid was found to be produced by all parts of the plant, though in greatest quantity by the seeds.
An imperative class of α-amino acids bearing 1,2,4-triazinone and N,C-disubstituted glycine (5a,b) and/or the related systems (6 and 7) have been synthesized by the condensation of 6-(2'-aminophenyl-4-phenyl-3-thion -1,2,4-triazin-5-one (1) with the appropriate steroids, Epiandrosteron (2a) and Dehydrosterone (2b), followed by the addition of hydrocyanic acid. Nucleophilic substitution of mercapto group of (5) by 4-fluoroaniline and sulfanilamide give the corresponding systems 6 and 7. Compounds 6,7, 5, and 4 showed a high enzymatic effect as cellobiase agents against some tested fungi .
Pyrimido[6,1-a]isoquinolines hold interest as physiologically active compounds [1]. The structural fragment of pyrimido[6,1-a]-β-carbolines is found in several alkaloids such as elaeocapridine [2]. The methods reported for the preparation of such compounds involve multiple steps and have proved inefficient. As a rule, the synthesis of such compounds requires not readily available isoquinoline and β-carboline precursors. The pyrimidine ring is subsequently completed [3]. On the other hand, intramolecular amidoalkylation of heterocyclic acyliminium is often used for the preparation of isoquinolines and β-carbolines fused with other heterocycles [4]. Such an approach to the synthesis of pyrimido[6,1-a]isoquinolines and pyrimido[6,1-a]-βcarbolines has not yet been employed. We have shown that 6-hydroxytetrahydropyrimidine-2-thiones 5, obtained according to Unkovskii et al. [5] by the reaction of the corresponding isothiocyanatocarbonyl derivatives 1a and 1b [6] with homoveratrylamine 3 or tryptamine 4, are converted upon heating in acetic acid to 1,2,3,6,7,11b-hexahydro-4Hpyrimido[6,1-a]isoquinoline-4-thiones 8a and 8b and 2,3,6,7,12,12b-hexahydropyrimido[6,1-a]-β-carboline4(1H)-thiones 9a and 9b with satisfactory yields (method A). Thione 8b is formed as a 10:9 2,11b-cis/trans isomer mixture while thione 9b is formed as a 1:4 1,12b-cis/trans isomer mixture. Heterocyclic cation 6 may also be obtained from 3,4-dihydropyrimidine-2(1H)-thione 7 in acid medium. The use of amines 3 and 4 in reported methods for the synthesis of 7 based on the condensation of isothiocyanato ketones and amines [7] (method B) or of α,β-unsaturated ketones, thiocyanic acid, and amines [8] (method C) also leads to heterocyclic thiones 8 and 9 (Scheme 1). The yields of 8a relative to amine 3 obtained by methods A (overall yield in two steps), B, and C are 73, 65, and 64%, respectively. The reaction proceeds as an intramolecular amidoalkylation of the aryl or hetaryl fragment by heterocyclic cation 6 formed in acid medium from 5 or 7. General Method for the Synthesis of 8 and 9 (Method B). A mixture of isothiocyanatocarbonyl derivative (72.3 mmol) and 3,4-dimethoxyphenylethylamine (60.5 mmol) in glacial acetic acid (50 ml) was heated at reflux for 1.5 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and poured onto ice. The crystals formed were filtered off, dried, and recrystallized from absolute ethanol.
Abstract This study has explored the potential energy surface on the chemical reaction of CH2OH with NO by using ab initio calculation. We have found the new reaction pathway producing N-hydroxy formamide, which can further decompose to generate isocyanic acid as a reducing agent of hydrocarbons selective catalytic reduction.
In an attempt to identify plant growth-promoting (PGP) ::: actinomycetes other than Streptomyces sp., from rhizosphere ::: soils of chickpea and sorghum, a total of 37 actinomycetes ::: were isolated and evaluated for their PGP traits. Of which, ::: one isolate BCA-696 was found to produce PGP traits ::: including indole acetic acid (IAA), siderophore, cellulase, ::: lipase, protease, chitinase, hydrocyanic acid and -1,3- ::: glucanase. BCA-696 was found to tolerate wide range of pH, ::: temperature, NaCl concentrations and fungicides. BCA-696 ::: was identified as Amycolatopsis sp. in 16S rDNA analysis. ::: On chickpea, under greenhouse and field conditions, BCA- ::: 596 enhanced the root length, root volume, shoot weight, ::: root weight, nodule number, pod number, seed weight, stover ::: yield and grain yield over the un-inoculated control. BCA- ::: 696 also enhanced PGP traits on sorghum, under field ::: conditions, including the leaf area, stem weight, root weight, ::: plant weight, grain yield and stover yield over the uninoculated ::: control. The rhizosphere soils of both chickpea ::: and sorghum were also found to enhance total N, available P ::: and % organic C in BCA-696 treated plots over un-inoculated ::: control plots. BCA-696 was found to colonize both chickpea ::: and sorghum roots in scanning electron microscope analysis. ::: This is the first report on the role of Amycolatopsis sp. in ::: PGP on chickpea and sorghum.
Summary. Undesirable odour and flavour in canned whole apricots are caused by the products of the β-glucosidase activity in the apricot kernels. the hydrocyanic acid content in canned apricots heat treated for 38 min at 86°C was found to be approximately 1 ppm, with no changes occurring even after long storage; the figure reached a maximum of 16–17 ppm after 150 days of storage at room temperature in fruit heat treated at the same temperature but for only 20 min.
Summary Income for dairy farmers during the summer depends to a considerable extent on more pasture herbage production in hot-dry weather. The results of recent studies indicate that dairy cattle fed an adequate ration, and allowed to graze nights and days with shade during the days, are far less affected by high environmental temperatures than previously supposed. Increased quality and quantity of forage may be enhanced by: (a) growing crops more resistant to heat and drought, (b) maintaining more moisture in the soil by less defoliation of plants which give shade to the soil, (c) irrigation, and (d) fertilization of the soil (especially with nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium). The problems involved in using animal production (growth, milk yields) in pasture evaluation were pointed out. Indirect methods of pasture evaluation using internal and external indicators were described. A combination of internal and external indicators makes possible the estimation not only of the chemical composition but also of the coefficient of digestibility and dry matter intake of pasture. Dry matter intake from pasture is variable, but usually is about 30 to 35lb. per day for cows weighing 1,200lb. Grazed pasture herbage is higher in crude protein and lower in crude fiber and higher in digestibility than comparable hand-fed herbage. The requirements of grazing cattle are about the same as in barn-feeding, with the exception of digestible energy. Grazing cattle require from 1 to 3lb. of TDN per cow per day more than those barn-feeding. Losses of pasture herbage from trampling, when properly managed, are about 10 to 15%. These losses are much higher with tall pastures. Temporary pastures, such as Sudan grass, are needed in many areas to supplement perennial pastures during the summer. The success of different systems of pasture utilization hinges on proper management (proper stocking rate, use of high-producing cows). Rotational and strip-grassing systems aid in using intensive pastures. Soilage may be used to advantage on farms where good pasture land is not conveniently located. Where soilage and stored feed may be used to advantage was pointed out. The fermentation vat of calves fed feeds other than milk alone is sufficiently developed at 2 to 4 mo. of age to handle good pasture, but the calves will starve on poor pasture. Certain pasture forages, such as Sudan grass, may contain considerable hydrocyanic acid. When properly managed, however, the danger from prussic acid poisoning is not great. Although the cause of pasture bloat is not known, recent results indicate that the administration of penicillin prevents bloat for a short time. Also, vegetable oils sprayed on "bloaty" pastures, added to the drinking water or to the feed, reduce the incidence of bloat. Milk produced by cows on pasture is more resistant to oxidized flavor than when winter feeds are fed. Pasture feed flavors may be avoided by removing cows from pasture 3 to 5hr. prior to milking.
A process for the production of hydrocyanic acid gas by means of electrolysis in an electrochemical cell (1) with an electrolyte (4), a producer and a counter electrode (5, 3), wherein the electrolyte (4) consists of at least an ionic liquid and thiocyanate ions ,
Soil is a habitat where plant roots and microorganisms interact. In the region of the Brazilian Iron Quadrangle (IQ), studies involving the interaction between microbiota and plants have been neglected. Even more neglected are the studies involving the holoparasite plant Langsdorffia hypogaea Mart. (Balanophoraceae). The geomorphological peculiarities of IQ soil, rich in iron ore, as well as the model of interaction between L. hypogaea, its hosts and the soil provide a unique niche that acts as selective pressure to the evolution of plant growth-promoting bacteria (PGPB). The aim of this study was to prospect the bacterial microbiota of holoparasitic plant L. hypogaea, its plant host and corresponding rhizosphere of IQ soil, and to analyze the potential of these isolates as PGPB. We obtained samples of 11 individuals of L. hypogaea containing fragments of host and rhizosphere remnants, resulting in 81 isolates associated with Firmicutes and Proteobacteria phyla. The ability to produce siderophores, hydrocyanic acid (HCN), indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), nitrogen (N2) fixation, hydrolytic enzymes secretion and inhibition of enteropathogens, and phytopathogens were evaluated. Of the total isolates, 62, 86, and 93% produced respectively siderophores, IAA, and were able to fix N2. In addition, 27 and 20% of isolates inhibited the growth of enteropathogens and phytopathogens respectively, and 58% were able to produce at least one hydrolytic activity investigated. The high number of isolates that produce siderophores and indole-3-acetic acid suggests that this microbiota may be important for adaptation of plants to IQ. The results demonstrate for the first time the biological importance of Brazilian IQ species as reservoirs of specific microbiotas that might be used as plant growth-promoting bacteria on agricultural land or antropized soils that needs to be reforested.
The formation of amide by interaction of urea and carboxylic acids according to the method of Cherbuliez and Landolt1 ) has been examined for its application and limitations. On the one hand, the method has been successfully extended to include a group of simple aliphatic, aryl-aliphatic, and dibasic acids; on the other hand the fact, illustrated by numerous literature references, that this method fails in the case of those acids which contain functional groups in α- or β-position is pointed out. ::: ::: ::: ::: The mechanism of amide formation from acid and urea, based on the interaction of carboxylic acid and cyanic acid - the latter being formed by decomposition of urea -, is suggested and discussed. The formation of cyanuric acid, isolated and identified in some experiments, is discussed in conjunction with some literature citations supporting the proposed mechanism.
The selective catalytic reduction (SCR) of NOx by NH3 has been extensively studied in the literature, mainly because of its high potential to remediate the pollution of diesel exhaust gases. The implementation of the NH3-SCR process into passenger cars requires the use of an ammonia precursor, provided by a urea aqueous solution in the conventional process. Although the thermal decomposition and hydrolysis mechanisms of urea are well documented in the literature, the influence of the direct use of urea on the NOx reduction over SCR catalysts may be problematic. With the aim to evaluate prototype powdered catalysts, a specific synthetic gas bench adjusted to powdered material was developed, allowing the use of NH3 or urea as reductant for direct comparison. The design of the experimental setup allows vaporization of liquid urea at 200 °C under 10 bar using an HPLC pump and a micro injector of 50 μm diameter. This work presents the experimental setup of the catalytic test and some remarkable catalytic results towards further development of new catalytic formulations specifically dedicated to urea-SCR. Indeed, a possible divergence in terms of DeNOx efficiency is evidenced depending on the nature of the reductant, NH3 or urea solution. Particularly, the evaluated catalyst may not allow an optimal NOx conversion because of a lack in ammonia availability when the urea residence time is shortened. This is attributed to insufficient activity of isocyanic acid (HNCO) hydrolysis, which can be improved by addition upstream of an active solid for the hydrolysis reaction such as ZrO2. Thus, this µ-scale synthetic gas bench adjusted to powdered materials enables the specific behaviour of urea use for NOx reduction to be demonstrated.
In this article,various synthesis routes and research results for glyphosate are introduced.The aminoacetic acid route and the iminodiethanoic acid route of glyphosate are reviewed in details.The IDA-air(oxygen) catalytic oxidation route using hydrocyanic acid as raw materials is the most advanced synthesis route for glyphosate and used widely abroad owe to the low price of hydrocyanic acid.In China,there is no appropriate source of hydrocyanic acid so far,the aminoacetic acid-dialkyl phosphite route still is the main synthesis routes and the IDA route for glyphosate is the second,but the IDA route will become the most primary route as soon as the production technology of hydrocyanic acid gets breakthrough in the future.At last,some new synthesis routes for glyphosate with atom economy are introduced briefly,such as biological catalysis method and photochemical method,which are expected to get breakthrough in the future.
O-iodoxybenzoic acid and its precursors o-iodbenzoic acid and o-iodosobenzoic acid, were first described by Meyer and his co-workers, 1 in 1892. The action of these substances was first investigated in 1899 by Heinz, 2 who attempted to study the action of nascent iodine in the body by their use. Loevenhart and Grove 3 discussed the preparation and modification of these preparations and studied the effect of sodium iodoxybenzoate on the blood. They found only slight changes following its intravenous administration, marked by a mild polymorphonuclear leukocytosis. Grove and Loevenhart 4 studied the effect of sodium iodosobenzoate and sodium iodoxybenzoate on the respiratory center and concluded that the apnea produced by these compounds was due to the presence of the oxygen combined with the iodine. They also studied the antagonism between sodium iodosobenzoate and hydrocyanic acid in regard to the respiratory center. Arkin 5 studied the germicidal action of the compounds
Soil is a habitat where plant roots and microorganisms interact. In the region of the Brazilian Iron Quadrangle (IQ), studies involving the interaction between microbiota and plants have been neglected. Even more neglected are the studies involving the holoparasite plant Langsdorffia hypogaea Mart. (Balanophoraceae). The geomorphological peculiarities of IQ soil, rich in iron ore, as well as the model of interaction between L. hypogaea, its hosts and the soil provide a unique niche that acts as selective pressure to the evolution of plant growth-promoting bacteria (PGPB). The aim of this study was to prospect the bacterial microbiota of holoparasitic plant L. hypogaea, its plant host and corresponding rhizosphere of IQ soil, and to analyze the potential of these isolates as PGPB. We obtained samples of 11 individuals of L. hypogaea containing fragments of host and rhizosphere remnants, resulting in 81 isolates associated with Firmicutes and Proteobacteria phyla. The ability to produce siderophores, hydrocyanic acid (HCN), indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), nitrogen (N 2 ) fixation, hydrolytic enzymes secretion and inhibition of enteropathogens, and phytopathogens were evaluated. Of the total isolates, 62, 86, and 93% produced, respectively, siderophores, IAA, and were able to fix N 2 . In addition, 27 and 20% of isolates inhibited the growth of enteropathogens and phytopathogens, respectively, and 58% were able to produce at least one hydrolytic activity investigated. The high number of isolates that produce siderophores and indole-3-acetic acid suggests that this microbiota may be important for adaptation of plants to IQ. The results demonstrate for the first time the biological importance of Brazilian IQ species as reservoirs of specific microbiotas that might be used as PGPB on agricultural land or antropized soils that needs to be reforested.
Cyanide occurs in cassava in the form of two cyanogenic glycosides; linamarin and lotaustralin. Hydrolytic enzymes which are capable of breaking down these cyanogenic glycosides to free cyanide (hydrocyanic acid, HCN) are also present in the plant [1] . However, under normal conditions, they are separated from the substrate. Any process that ruptures the cell walls will bring the enzymes into contact with the glycosides and will thus release free cyanide and reduce the glycosides' content of the final product [1] .
The selective catalytic reduction (SCR) of NOx by NH3 has been extensively studied in the literature, mainly because of its high potential to remediate the pollution of diesel exhaust gases. The implementation of the NH3-SCR process into passenger cars requires the use of an ammonia precursor, provided by a urea aqueous solution in the conventional process. Although the thermal decomposition and hydrolysis mechanisms of urea are well documented in the literature, the influence of the direct use of urea on the NOx reduction over SCR catalysts may be problematic. With the aim to evaluate prototype powdered catalysts, a specific synthetic gas bench adjusted to powdered material was developed, allowing the use of NH3 or urea as reductant for direct comparison. The design of the experimental setup allows vaporization of liquid urea at 200 °C under 10 bar using an HPLC pump and a micro injector of 50 μm diameter. This work presents the experimental setup of the catalytic test and some remarkable catalytic results towards further development of new catalytic formulations specifically dedicated to urea-SCR. Indeed, a possible divergence in terms of DeNOx efficiency is evidenced depending on the nature of the reductant, NH3 or urea solution. Particularly, the evaluated catalyst may not allow an optimal NOx conversion because of a lack in ammonia availability when the urea residence time is shortened. This is attributed to insufficient activity of isocyanic acid (HNCO) hydrolysis,
Nevertheless, NH3 is not desired to be on board vehicles. Aqueous urea solution is a safe answer as ammonia precursor and it was selected for SCR in the automotive industry. Ammonia is then obtained by two consecutive reactions: "urea thermolysis" (Equation (4)) leading to NH3 and HNCO (isocyanic acid), and "HNCO hydrolysis" (Equation (5)). The overall reaction corresponds to "direct urea hydrolysis" (Equation (6) ).
(NH2)CO(NH2) + H2O→2NH3 + CO2 (6) Note that, in addition to Reactions (1)-(3) it was also suggested that urea itself and isocyanic acid could react with nitric oxide according to Equations (7) and (8) [21] : 2(NH2)CO(NH2) + 6NO→5N2 + 4H2O + 2CO2 (7) 4HNCO + 6NO→5N2 + 2H2O + 4CO2 (8) Equation (4) is endothermic and thermally assisted compared to Equation (5) which is exothermic. With pure urea, Koebel et al. [13] observed the thermal decomposition according to Equation (4) and reported that isocyanic acid is stable in the gas phase. However, HNCO hydrolysis is easily hydrolysed on many solid oxides, as SCR catalysts, with water vapour (Equation (5)) [22] . It is proposed that the rate of HNCO hydrolysis is much higher than the rate of the SCR reaction at low to medium temperatures on the usual SCR catalysts.
Semicarbazide hydrochloride is commercially available and, as a rule, many other acyclic semicarbazides can be readily prepared. However, no general and convenient approaches to 2alkylsemicarbazides have been developed. Scheme 1 shows two commonly used methods of 2alkylsemicarbazide synthesis. The first is based on nitrosonation of N-alkylureas with nitrous acid or its anhydride followed by reduction of nitroso group in the obtained N-alkyl-N-nitrosoureas with Zn in aqueous AcOH, [6] [7] [8] H2 over Pd/C, 9 or using electrochemical method. 10 The second approach involves carbamoylation of the corresponding monosubstituted hydrazines with trimethylsilyl isocyanate, 4, [11] [12] [13] urea, 14 or cyanic acid generated by reaction of Brønsted acid and metal cyanate. [15] [16] [17] [18] Scheme 1. Commonly used approaches to 2-alkylsemicarbazides.
This chapter first describes complexes with nitrites, chiefly of the type, [Mn(RCN)6]X2, with X=ClO4, BF4, or halometallate anions. In these compounds the nitrite ligand is coordinated to manganese through the nitrogen atom. Included also are similar complexes with hydrocyanic acid or cyanogen halides. Complexes with polycyanoalkanes or -alkenes are described in the second part of this chapter, see p. 14. These compounds reveal a salt-like character, due to the ability of the ligands to form resonance-stabilized anions.
The effects of enrichment ofgarisemolina with three different types of soy -melon protein supplements during toasting ofgariwere studied. Three protein supplements (Full fat, Defatted and Milk residue) were toasted together separately with the grat ed, dewatered and sifted cassava mash after fermentation (soak -mix method). After toasting and cooling, the samples were subjected to physico -chemical analyses. Results showed that enrichment increased the protein, fat and ash contents, and the pH values, while the hydrocyanic acid content, titratable acidity reduced generally. Enrichment increased the protein content from 2.81% in the control gari to a range of 15.3% -23.5% in the enriched samples. The fat increased from 3.24% to a range of 4.13% -13.50%; while the ash content increased from 1.18% to a range ofto 3.47%. Hydrocyanic acid was significantly (P
Homogeneous Carbon Monoxide Hydrogenation.- 1. Stoichiometric CO Reduction (Model Reactions).- 1.1. CO Coordination.- 1.2. CO Activation (Scission and CH Bond Formation).- 1.2.1. CO Activation via Formyl Complexes.- 1.2.2. CO Activation via Hydroxymethyl, Hydroxymethylene Intermediates.- 1.2.3. CO Activation via Carbide, Carbyne, Carbene Intermediates.- 1.3. Formation of C1+ Species (Growth Products).- 1.3.1. Growth by Metal-C-C Bond Formation.- 1.3.2. Growth by Metal-O-C Bond Formation.- 1.3.3. Growth by Aldehydes as Intermediates.- 2. Catalytic Homogeneous Reduction of Carbon Monoxide.- 2.1. Reduction of CO with Reducing Agents Other than Molecular Hydrogen.- 2.2. Direct Reduction of CO with Hydrogen.- References.- FischerTropsch Synthesis.- 1. Introduction.- 2. Historic Developments in Heterogeneous Carbon Monoxide Hydrogenation.- 3. Technical Realization of the Fischer-Tropsch Synthesis.- 3.1. Types of Industrial Reactors.- 3.2. Integrated Structures of Production Plants.- 4. Basic Features of the Fischer-Tropsch Reaction.- 4.1. Stoichiometry.- 4.2. Thermodynamics.- 4.3. Molecular Weight Distribution of Products.- 4.4. Catalysts.- 4.4.1. Catalyst Metals.- 4.4.2. Promoters.- 4.4.3. Supports.- 4.4.4. Poisons.- 4.4.5. Preparation, Activation and Performance of Catalysts.- 4.5. Surface Species.- 5. Product Selectivity Control.- 5.1. Control of Molecular Weight Distribution.- 5.2. Selective Manufacture of Olefins.- 5.3. Selective Manufacture of Alcohols.- 6. Mechanistic Considerations.- 6.1. The Carbide Mechanism.- 6.2. The Hydroxycarbene Mechanism.- 6.3. Carbon Monoxide Insertion Mechanisms.- 6.4. Evaluation of the Proposed Mechanisms.- 7. Conclusions.- References.- Methanol Building Block for Chemicals.- 1. Mechanism of CO Reduction to Methanol.- 2. Future Use of Methanol.- 2.1. Methanol: Raw Material for the Chemical Industry.- 2.1.1. Base Chemicals from Methanol.- 2.1.1.1. Olefins and aromatics.- 2.1.1.2. Generation of pure hydrogen.- 2.1.1.3. Generation of pure CO.- 2.1.1.4. Synthesis of styrene.- 2.1.2. Fine Chemicals from Methanol.- 2.1.2.1. Acetic anhydride.- 2.1.2.2. Vinylacetate.- 2.1.2.3. Ethylene glycol.- 2.1.2.4. Methyl methacrylate.- 2.1.2.5. Methyl formate.- References.- The Homologation of Methanol.- 1. Introduction.- 1.1. Principle of the Homologation Reaction.- 1.2. Potential Use of Methanol Homologation.- 2. Cobalt-Catalyzed Methanol Homologation.- 2.1. Historic Developments and Recent Progress.- 2.2. Parameters Controlling the Homologation Reaction.- 2.2.1. Influence of Catalyst Composition.- 2.2.1.1. Nature of the cobalt compound.- 2.2.1.2. Promoters.- 2.2.1.3. Ligands.- 2.2.1.4. Cometals as hydrogenation catalysts.- 2.2.2. Influence of Reaction Conditions.- 2.2.2.1. Solvents.- 2.2.2.2. CO/H2 ratio.- 2.2.2.3. Syngas pressure.- 2.2.2.4. Reaction temperature.- 2.2.2.5 Reaction time.- 2.3. Possible Reaction Mechanisms.- 2.3.1. Nonpromoted Cobalt Catalysts.- 2.3.2. Iodine-Promoted Cobalt Catalysts.- 2.3.3. Hydrogenation of Acetaldehyde to Ethanol.- 2.3.4. Side-product Formation.- 3. Other Catalyst Metals.- 3.1. Iron Catalysts.- 3.2. Ruthenium Catalysts.- 3.3. Rhodium Catalysts.- 4. Conclusions.- References.- Hydroformylation and Carbonylation Reactions.- 1. Hydroformylation and Carbonylation of Unsaturated Organic Substrates.- 1.1. Introduction.- 1.2. Reppe-Type Chemistry.- 1.2.1. Alkyne Carbonylation.- 1.2.2. Alkene Carbonylation.- 1.3. The Hydroformylation Reaction.- 1.3.1. Unmodified Cobalt Carbonyl Systems.- 1.3.2. Phosphine-Modified Cobalt Carbonyl Systems.- 1.3.3. Rhodium Catalysts.- 1.4. General Mechanistic Implications.- 1.5. Carbonylation in Acidic Conditions.- 2. Carbonylation Under Oxidative Conditions.- 2.1. Introduction.- 2.2. The Synthesis of Oxalates.- 2.3. The Synthesis of Acrylates and Related Derivatives.- 2.4. The Synthesis of Carbonates.- References.- Activation of Carbon Dioxide via Coordination to Transition Metal Complexes.- 1. Introduction.- 2. Insertion of Carbon Dioxide into Transition Metal Complexes.- 2.1. Insertion into M-C Bonds.- 2.2. Insertion into M-H Bonds.- 2.3. Insertion into M-O Bonds.- 2.4. Insertion into M-N Bonds.- 3. Transition Metal-Catalyzed Syntheses Involving Carbon Dioxide.- 3.1. Reactions of CO2 with Hydrogen and Further Reaction Components.- 3.2. Reactions of CO2 with Unsaturated Hydrocarbons.- 3.2.1. Alkynes.- 3.2.2. Alkenes.- 3.2.3. Dienes.- 3.2.4. Methylenecyclopropanes.- 3.3. Reactions of CO2 with Strained Heterocycles.- 4. Deoxygenation of CO2.- 5. Dimerization of CO2.- 6. Carbon Dioxide as a Cocatalyst in Homogeneous Catalysis.- 6.1. Dimerization.- 6.2. Telomerization.- 6.3. Metathesis.- 6.4. Hydroformylation.- 6.5. Polymerization.- 7. Conclusions.- 8. Glossary of Nonstandard Abbreviations.- References.- Hydrocyanation.- 1. Introduction.- 1.1. Application of HCN and its Derivatives.- 1.2. Preparation of HCN.- 1.3. Properties of HCN.- 1.4. Coordination Modes of HCN.- 2. Reaction of HCN with Multiple Bonds.- 2.1. Hydrocyanation of Unsaturated Hydrocarbons.- 2.1.1. Hydrocyanation of Acetylene.- 2.1.2. Hydrocyanation of Olefins.- 2.1.2.1. Activation of HCN by cuprous salts.- 2.1.2.2. Selectivity of hydrocyanation reactions.- 2.1.2.3. Oxycyanation of olefins.- 2.1.2.4. Reaction with 1.4-butenediol.- 2.1.2.5. Reaction of cyanogen with hydrocarbons.- 2.1.3. Isonitrile Synthesis by Hydrocyanation.- 2.2. Hydrocyanation of Functionalized Olefins.- 2.3. Hydrocyanation of C = 0 and C=N Double Bonds.- 3. Applications of HCN in Organic Chemistry Other than Addition to Multiple Bonds.- 3.1. Cyanogen Chemistry.- 3.2. Oxamide Synthesis.- 3.3. Cyclotrimerization of HCN and of its Derivatives.- 3.4. Polymerization of HCN.- 3.5. Formamide Synthesis.- 3.6. Oxidation and Hydrogenation of HCN.- 4. Physiological Properties of HCN and Safety.- References.- Methane.- 1. Methane.- 1.1. Industrial and Synthetic Applications of Methane.- 1.1.1. Synthesis Gas.- 1.1.2. Halogenation of Methane.- 1.1.3. Hydrocyanic Acid Production.- 1.1.4. Acetylene Production.- 1.1.5. Particular Reactions.- 1.1.5.1. Nitriles synthesis.- 1.1.5.2. Direct synthesis of methanol and formaldehyde.- 1.1.5.3. Carboxylation of methane.- 1.1.5.4. Formation of CS2.- 1.1.5.5. Other reactions.- 1.2. Activation of Methane.- 1.2.1. Activation of Methane by Soluble Metal Complexes.- 1.2.2. Activation of Methane by Superacids.- 1.3. Methane in Nature.- 2. Alkanes.- 2.1. Activation of Alkanes by Metal Complexes.- 2.2. Activation of Alkanes on Metal Surfaces.- 2.3. Activation of Alkanes by Metal Ions Through Oxidoreduction Processes.- 2.4. Metallo Enzymes Activation of Alkanes.- References.- Carbenes.- 0. Introduction.- 1. The Structure of Carbenes.- 2. Reactivity of Carbenes.- 3. Regioselectivity of Carbenes.- 4. The Relative Stability of Spin States.- 5. The Generation of Carbenes.- 6. Carbene Metal Complexes.- 7. The Structure of Carbenoids.- 8. Carbenes in Fine-Chemical Synthesis.- 8.1. Cycloaddition of Carbenes.- 8.2. The Insertion of Carbenes.- 8.3. Ring Enlargement Reactions and Ring Opening Processes.- 8.4 Carbene Rearrangements.- 8.5. The 1, 3-dipolar Addition.- 9. Carbenoids in Fine-Chemicals Synthesis.- 10. Mechanisms of Copper-Catalyzed Carbene Reactions.- 11. Catalysis by Metals Other than Copper.- 12. Synthetic Applications of Group VIII Transition Metal Complexes.- 13. Carbenoids in Industrial Process.- 13.1. Olefin Metathesis.- 13.2. Hydrocarbon Acitivation.- 13.2.1. Hydrogen Deuterium Exchange in Methane.- 13.2.2. Hydrogenolysis of Alkanes.- 13.2.3. Isomerization of Alkanes.- 13.3. Carbenes in Fischer-Tropsch Reactions.- 13.3.1. Methylene Carbenoids.- 13.3.2. Alkylidene Carbenoids.- 13.3.3. Oxycarbene Complexes.- 13.3.4. Hydroxycarbenes.- References.
In the present work, we describe a convenient synthesis of spiro-fused D-fructo- and D-psico-configurated oxazoline ligands and their application in asymmetric catalysis. The ligands were synthesized from readily available 3,4,5-tri-O-benzyl-1,2-O-isopropylidene-β-D-fructopyranose and 3,4,5-tri-O-benzyl-1,2-O-isopropylidene-β-D-psicopyranose, respectively. The latter compounds were partially deprotected under acidic conditions followed by condensation with thiocyanic acid to give an anomeric mixture of the corresponding 1,3-oxazolidine-2-thiones. The anomeric 1,3-oxazolidine-2-thiones were separated after successive benzylation, fully characterized and subjected to palladium catalyzed Suzuki–Miyaura coupling with 2-pyridineboronic acid N-phenyldiethanolamine ester to give the corresponding 2-pyridyl spiro-oxazoline (PyOx) ligands. The spiro-oxazoline ligands showed high asymmetric induction (up to 93% ee) when applied as chiral ligands in palladium-catalyzed allylic alkylation of 1,3-diphenylallyl acetate with dimethyl malonate. The D-fructo-PyOx ligand provided mainly the (R)-enantiomer while the D-psico-configurated ligand gave the (S)-enantiomer with a lower enantiomeric excess.
Observations of nine oxygen- and sulfur-containing organic molecules have been made toward the cold dark clouds TMC-1 and L134N. We have confirmed the presence of para-ketene (H2C2O) in TMC-1, have for the first time observed ortho-ketene, and find a total ketene column density approximately 1 x 10(13) cm-2. Thioformaldehyde (H2CS) is easily detectable in both TMC-1 and L134N, with a column density about 5 times larger in the former source (approximately 3 x 10(13) cm-2). The fractional abundance of ketene is comparable to the predictions of ion-molecule chemistry, while that of thioformaldehyde in TMC-1 is one to two orders of magnitude greater than that expected from such models at steady state. Interstellar sulfur chemistry thus continues to be poorly understood. We set upper limits for the column densities of formic acid (HCOOH), vinyl alcohol (CH2CHOH), methyl formate (HCO2CH3), formamide (NH2CHO), methyl mercaptan (CH3SH), isothiocyanic acid (HNCS), and thioketene (H2C2S) in both sources.
The kinetics of OH radical reaction with formamide was studied by the relative rate method employing proton transfer reaction-mass spectrometry detection at the European Photochemical Reactor in Valencia, Spain. The rate coefficient was determined to be (4.5 ± 0.4) × 10(-12) cm(3) molecule(-1) s(-1) at 309 ± 3 K and 1013 ± 1 hPa. Isocyanic acid was observed as the sole product. The experimental results are supported by quantum chemical calculations and kinetic simulations using a master equation model. The calculated rate coefficient is independent of pressure at tropospheric conditions and can be accurately described by an Arrhenius expression having negative activation energy. The reaction is predicted to proceed exclusively via C-H abstraction.
Abstract : The field referred to is that of the simplest 1,3,5-triazine derivatives, and specifically the 1,3,5-triazine C3H3N3 itself (that is, the symmetric cyclic trimer of hydrocyanic acid, the basic member of the class) together with its various homologs which form next to it the CnH2n-3N3 series. They are quite naturally divided into three metameric groups with 1, 2 or 3 alkyl radicals on the triazine ring.
N-Substituted thiocarbamoyldiarylphosphine oxides and sulfides were prepared by the addition reaction of diarylphosphine oxides and diphenylphosphine sulfide with isothiocyanates. Diarylphosphine oxides and diphenylphosphine reacted with ammonium thiocyanate under hydrogen chloride stream to produce diarylphosphinyl- and diarylthiophosphinyl-substituted bis(iminomethyl) sulfides, which are a new type of sulfide. Diphenylphosphine also reacted with thiocyanic acid in ether to give thiocarbamoyldiphenylphosphine and bis(diphenylphosphinyliminomethyl) sulfide. Mechanisms for formation of these bis(iminomethyl) sulfides have been discussed.
Abstract Photolysis of azides 1 – 4 in methanol, which have a built-in intramolecular triplet sensitizer, yields mainly carbamates 5 – 8 . Laser flash photolysis of 1 – 4 shows formation of their triplet-excited ketone, which decays by intramolecular energy transfer to form triplet nitrenes 1n – 4n . Irradiating 1 – 3 in matrices yields isocyanic acid, whereas photolysis of 4 forms isocyanate 4i . The depletion rate of the azide bands between 2100 and 2200 cm −1 is different than the rate of formation for the isocyanic acid bands at ∼2265 cm −1 ; thus, the formation of isocyanic acid is a stepwise process. Irradiating 1 in matrices produces an absorption band due to nitrene 1n ( λ max ∼ 343 nm), which is depleted upon further irradiation, whereas the absorption due to 4-acetyl benzaldehyde ( λ max ∼ 280 nm) increases with prolonged irradiation. We propose that formation of isocyanic acid in matrices must come from secondary photolysis of nitrenes 1n – 3n . This mechanism is further supported by calculation, which show that the estimated transition state for 1n – 4n to fall apart to yield alkoxy and cyanato radicals is only ∼34 kcal/mol above the ground state of the triplet nitrenes and thus the cleavage can take place photochemically. Thus, nitrenes 1n – 4n can be formed selectively, but these intermediates are highly photosensitive and undergo secondary photolysis in matrices.
Hydroxynitrile lyases (Hnls) are important biocatalysts for the synthesis of optically pure cyanohydrins, which are used as precursors and building blocks for a wide range of high price fine chemicals. Although two Hnl enzymes, from the tropical rubber tree Hevea brasiliensis and from the almond tree Prunus amygdalus, are already used for large scale industrial applications, the enzymes still need to be improved and adapted to the special demands of industrial processes. In many cases directed evolution has been the method of choice to improve enzymes, which are applied as industrial biocatalysts. The screening procedure is the most crucial point in every directed evolution experiment. Herein, we describe the successful development of a novel screening assay for Hnls and its application in high-throughput screening of Escherichia coli mutant libraries. The new assay allows rapid screening of mutant libraries and facilitates the discovery of improved enzyme variants. Hnls catalyze the cleavage of cyanohydrins to hydrocyanic acid and the corresponding aldehyde or ketone. The enzyme assay is based on the detection of hydrocyanic acid produced, making it an all-purpose screening assay, without restriction to any kind of substrate. The gaseous HCN liberated within the Hnl reaction is detected by a visible colorimetric reaction. The facile, highly sensitive and reproducible screening method was validated by identifying new enzyme variants with novel substrate specificities.
Flaxseed (Linum usitatissimum L.) provides multiple nutritional benefits, including high quality protein, dietary fiber, and is the most abundant source of α-linolenic acid (C18:3). However, the presence of anti-nutritional factors, such as cyanogenic compounds, restricts flaxseed's consumption as a food or feed. This study investigated the reduction of cyanogenic compounds, measured as hydrocyanic acid (HCN), in full-fat flaxseed using extrusion processing without a die by following the response surface methodology. The ranges of processing variables selected were: barrel exit temperature of 76.3–143.6°C; screw speed of 59.6–160.5 rpm; and feed rate of 26.4–93.6 kg/h. The experimental values of HCN reduction obtained were from 60.8 to 86.6%. Optimum extrusion conditions of barrel exit temperature, screw speed, and feed rate were found to be 143.6°C, 133.5 rpm, and 57.8 kg/h for maximum (89.1%) reduction of HCN. This effect was mainly dependent on barrel exit temperature, whereas screw speed and feed rate had no or minimal effect. The mutual interaction effect of barrel exit temperature and screw speed was found to be significant (p ≤ 0.01). The degree of correlation (R2) for HCN reduction was 97.2%, which showed the validity of applied second-order response model. The results of this study demonstrated that significant reduction of HCN in flaxseed can be achieved commercially using an extruder without a die.
A bacterium, isolated from nodules of chickpea grown in alluvial soils of Haryana state of India, designated as IC-76 was characterized for in vitro plant growth-promoting (PGP) properties and further evaluated under greenhouse, on-station and on-farm field conditions for PGP activity in chickpea. The isolate IC-76 produced indole acetic acid, siderophore, hydrocyanic acid, cellulase, protease, and β-1,3-glucanase. When the bacterium was evaluated individually for their PGP potential in the greenhouse on chickpea and in combination with five Streptomyces sp. (strains CAI-24, CAI-121, CAI-127, KAI-32, and KAI-90; demonstrated earlier as biocontrol potential against Fusarium wilt disease in chickpea), the traits, including nodule number and weight, shoot, and root weight, pod number and weight, seed number and weight, available phosphorus and % organic carbon were found significantly, enhanced over un-inoculated control. In the on-station and on-farm field conditions, IC-76 significantly enhanced nodule number and weight, shoot, and root weight, stover and grain yield and total dry matter. In the rhizosphere (0-15 cm soil), the bacterium also significantly enhanced the total nitrogen, available phosphorus and % organic carbon. The sequence of 16S rDNA gene of the IC-76 was matched with Pseudomonas geniculata in BLAST analysis. This study demonstrates that IC-76 has the potential for PGP in chickpea.
To master the chemical behavior of the extraction of hafnium and zirconium in the mixture of diisobutyl ketone(DIBK) and P204,the characteristics and mechanism about the extraction of zirconium and hafnium by DIBK-P204 system in thiocyanic acid(HSCN) medium were studied through the methods of slope coefficient and saturated volumetric.The results show that hafnium is extracted preferentially by DIBK-P204 system,the synergistic extractive effects are found,and the extraction reactions follow the mechanism of the addition reactions.The composition of extracted complex is determined as n(Zr4+(Hf4+)):n(P204):n(DIBK)=1:2:1 and the extracted complexes are identified as Zr(SCN)3 HA2 DIBK and Hf(SCN)3 HA2 DIBK,and the possible synergistic extraction complex structures are suggested through infrared spectrum analysis of the loaded organic phase.The extraction and separation effect of zirconium and hafnium can be improved with synergistic mixture of DIBK and P204.
For converting methane and ammonia to hydrocyanic acid, catalysts were prepared and tested in a 48-parallel channel fixed-bed reactor unit operating at temperatures up to 1373 K. The catalysts were synthesized with a robot applying a genetic algorithm as the design tool. New and improved catalyst compositions were discovered by using a total of seven generations each consisting of 92 potential catalysts. Thereby, the catalyst support turned out as an important input variable. Furthermore, platinum, which is well known as a catalytic material was confirmed. Moreover, improvements in HCN yield were achieved by addition of promoters like Ir, Au, Ni, Mo, Zn and Re. Multi-way analysis of variance and regression trees were applied to establish correlations between HCN yield and catalyst composition (support and metal additives). The obtained results are considered as the base for future even more efficient screening experiments.
We report the first gas-phase Raman spectrum of isocyanic acid. Using stimulated Raman excitation (SRE) to prepare vibrationally excited states, we detect transitions by both photoacoustic Raman spectroscopy (PARS) and action spectroscopy. In this paper we present results on the ν1 N–H stretch fundamental, leaving the spectra of the N–C–O symmetric and antisymmetric stretch modes for a separate publication. The Raman spectrum shows extensive state mixing in the ν1 fundamental, in agreement with previous infrared work. Measurement of the effective b-axis rotational constants for different mixed vibrational states in this near-prolate symmetric top limits the number of candidates for perturbing states and shows which vibrational modes participate. Double resonance photodissociation further probes the vibrational spectroscopy of isocyanic acid. The scheme is first to prepare a vibrationally excited state by SRE, then photodissociate only the molecules prepared in the first step, and finally probe the decomposition products by laser-induced fluorescence (LIF). An action spectrum, obtained by scanning the vibrational excitation laser (Stokes) wavelength with the photolysis laser wavelength fixed and the probe laser tuned to a LIF transition in one of the photofragments, is the key to unraveling the spectroscopy. The intensity differences between PARS and action spectrum transitions reveal the vibrational state mixing and provide the Franck–Condon factors for transitions to the excited electronic state.We report the first gas-phase Raman spectrum of isocyanic acid. Using stimulated Raman excitation (SRE) to prepare vibrationally excited states, we detect transitions by both photoacoustic Raman spectroscopy (PARS) and action spectroscopy. In this paper we present results on the ν1 N–H stretch fundamental, leaving the spectra of the N–C–O symmetric and antisymmetric stretch modes for a separate publication. The Raman spectrum shows extensive state mixing in the ν1 fundamental, in agreement with previous infrared work. Measurement of the effective b-axis rotational constants for different mixed vibrational states in this near-prolate symmetric top limits the number of candidates for perturbing states and shows which vibrational modes participate. Double resonance photodissociation further probes the vibrational spectroscopy of isocyanic acid. The scheme is first to prepare a vibrationally excited state by SRE, then photodissociate only the molecules prepared in the first step, and finally probe the decompo...
Abstract The pyrolysates of bicyclo[2.2.1.]hept-2-ene and its derivatives have been investigated by pyrolysis-mass spectrometry and microwave spectroscopy (Py-MS/MW). The pyrolysates of ethene, s - trans -acrolein, methyl vinyl ketone, methylallene, and isocyanic acid were generated by elimination of cyclopentadiene(Cp) from bicyclo[2.2.1.]hept-2-ene, 2-carboxaldehydebicyclo [2.2.1.]hept-5-ene, 2-acetyl-bicyclo[2.2.1.]hept-5-ene, 2-ethylidene-bicyclo[2.2.1.]-hept-5-ene, and 2-azabicyclo[2.2.1.]hept-5-ene-3-one, respectively.
Tetramisole hydrochloride, a potent anthelmintic, has now been synthesized by condensation of styrene oxide and ethylenimine. The product, 1-(P-hydroxy-phenethyl)aziridine, reacts with thiourea or thiocyanic acid to yield 3-(P-hydroxy-phenethyl)-2-iminothiazolidine. Following chlorination with thionyl chloride, a base-catalysed cyclization gives tetramisole. The method provides a general route to 2,3,5,6-tetrahydroimidazo[2,l-b]thiazoles.
The progress of study on pyrolysis of urea at home and abroad,and its application in selective catalystic reduction(SCR) denitrification process have been presented,the pyrolysis of urea and urea-water solution under different temperatures being analysed,and an approach to use catalyst in promoting pyrolysis of urea being made.The isocyanic acid(HNCO),as an intermediate product in hydrolysis of catalysis,plays a key role to enhancing coversion rate of NH3.The catalysts for promoting decomposition of urea have V2O2-WO3/TiO2,Cu-ZSM5,Fe-ZSM5,TiO2,and Al2O3 etc.,among them,the powdered V2O5-WO3/TiO2 can extremely enhance the speed rate of hydrolysis for HNCO.
Methyl 10-undecenoate (2b) has been oxidized with tert-butyl hydroperoxide/selenium dioxide and potassium dichromate to 53% of methyl 9-oxo-10-undecenoate (4). Based on the conversion of 2b, the yield of 4 is 81%. Residual selenium in ester 5 was determined to be less than 1 ppm. The electrophilic double bond in enone 4 reacts in good to excellent yield with a variety of nucleophiles. With dimethyl malonate, acetylacetone, and methyl acetoacetate Michael–adducts at C-11 of enone 4 were obtained in 88–99% yield. Corresponding additions were achieved with nitroethane, 1- and 2-nitropropane in 78–89% yield. In a Nef–reaction some nitroalkyl adducts were converted to methyl esters of 9,12-dioxofatty acids in 99% yield. In methanol/sodium methoxide the ester methyl 11-methoxy-9-oxoundecanoate was obtained in 86% yield from enone 4. In a three step reaction with ammonium chloride/sodium cyanide, hydrochloric acid/acetic acid, and methanol/2,2-dimethoxypropane the ester 4 yielded 63% of dimethyl 4-oxo-dodecanedioate. With the cyanide ion the electrophilic carbon atom in aldehydes can be converted into a nucleophile (Stetter–reaction). Catalysed by sodium cyanide in DMF aromatic and heteroaromatic aldehydes RCHO with R = phenyl, 2-thienyl, 2-furyl and 3-pyridyl were added to enone 4 to afford methyl 12-aryl- and methyl 12-heteroaryl-9,12-dioxododecanoates in 54–73% yield. ::: ::: ::: ::: Practical applications: The prepared oleochemicals are useful as precursors for pharmaceuticals and as monomers for polyesters and polyamides. They also may be applied to synthesize fatty acid conjugates by providing suitable connectors for biological active compounds and to attach groups with suitable physical properties for materials. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: For enone 4 prepared from methyl 10-undecenoate, thirteen Michael additions with 1,3-dicarbonyl and nitro alkyl compounds, hydrocyanic acid and acyl anions are reported.
Cosmetic or pharmaceutical compositions for improving hair quality or promoting hair growth based on alkali metal, earth alkaline metal and/or ammonium salts of thiocyanic acid, are characterized in that they contain as a further component at least one component or mixture of components selected among estrogens, sulphur, sulphide ions, vasodilators, skin-active vitamins, inorganic selenium compounds, amino acids, protein hydrolysates and carboxilic acids physiologically available in the skin, possibly together with known additives and carriers for hair cleaning and hair-care products. A synergistic improvement of hair quality and promotion of hair growth due to the components added to the alkali metal, earth alkaline metal and/or ammonium salts of thiocyanic acid could be observed.
The FAD-dependent hydroxynitrile lyase from almond (Prunus amygdalus, PaHNL) catalyzes the cleavage of R-mandelonitrile into benzaldehyde and hydrocyanic acid. Catalysis of the reverse reaction—the enantiospecific formation of α-hydroxynitriles—is now widely utilized in organic syntheses as one of the few industrially relevant examples of enzyme-mediated C–C bond formation. Starting from the recently determined X-ray crystal structure, systematic docking calculations with the natural substrate were used to locate the active site of the enzyme and to identify amino acid residues involved in substrate binding and catalysis. Analysis of the modeled substrate complexes supports an enzymatic mechanism that includes the flavin cofactor as a mere "spectator" of the reaction and relies on general acid/base catalysis by the conserved His-497. Stabilization of the negative charge of the cyanide ion is accomplished by a pronounced positive electrostatic potential at the binding site. PaHNL activity requires the FAD cofactor to be bound in its oxidized form, and calculations of the pKa of enzyme-bound HCN showed that the observed inactivation upon cofactor reduction is largely caused by the reversal of the electrostatic potential within the active site. The suggested mechanism closely resembles the one proposed for the FAD-independent, and structurally unrelated HNL from Hevea brasiliensis. Although the actual amino acid residues involved in the catalytic cycle are completely different in the two enzymes, a common motif for the mechanism of cyanogenesis (general acid/base catalysis plus electrostatic stabilization of the cyanide ion) becomes evident.
Balcerek M., Szopa J. (2012): Ethanol biosynthesis and hydrocyanic acid liberation during fruit mashes fermentation. Czech J. Food Sci., 30: 144–152. The biosynthesis of ethanol and release of hydrocyanic acid are important factors characterising the fermentation process of fruit mashes. The effects were determined of the fruit pretreatment and method of fermentation (with or without the addition of wine yeast) on the dynamics of ethanol biosynthesis and hydrocyanic acid liberation during fruit mashes fermentation and its concentrations in the spirits obtained. Depending on the fermentation variants, the highest rate of ethanol biosynthesis was observed between the first and third days of plum mashes fermentation, and between the first and fourth days of chokeberry mashes fermentation. In the majority of fermented mashes, the maxi mum dynamics of HCN liberation was recorded on the first day of the process. Spontaneous fermentation of fruit pulp resulted in much higher amounts of HCN in the spirits obtained (10.5 mg/l of plum spirit 40%, v/v, and 28.90 mg/l of chokeberry spirit 40%, v/v) in relation to the contents observed in the distillates from the mashes fermented with the addition of S. bayanus wine yeast (2.80 mg/l of plum spirit 40%, v/v, and 12.46 mg/l of chokeberry spirit 40%,v/v). The treatment with the pectolytic preparation (PEKTOZYME TM POWERMash) had no significant effect on the concentration of HCN in fruit spirits, whereas the pressure/thermal treatment reduced HCN content, especially in chokeberry distillate, by ca. 71% as compared to the reference spirit (obtained from raw pulp).
Mixture cropping is an important component of selfsustaining, low-input agricultural systems, traditionally adopted in the Mediterranean region (Adesogan et al., 2002) . Its main objective has been to maximize use of resources such as space, light, and nutrients (Zhang and Li, 2003) as well as to improve forage quality and quantity (Ghanbari Bonjar and Lee, 2003; Azraf-ul-Haq et al., 2007; Dahmardeh et al., 2009) . Meanwhile, grasses and legumes are considered as important forage crops because of their nutritional value, especially protein content in legumes and crude fiber in grasses (Rakeih et al., 2008) . However, monocultures of legumes or grasses do not provide satisfactory results for forage production and nutritive value (Osman and Nersoyan, 1986) . Thus, mixing legume forages with grass forages can be an effective way to improve forage quality and nutritive value of the end product (Ross et al., 2004; Lithourgidis et al., 2006) . Literature also stated that intake of fodder is low when fed as pure fodders, either of legumes or grasses, compared with their grass-legume mixtures (Ansar et al., 2010) . The successful mixtures need to be selected from these forage crops that possess compatible maturity and harvesting schemes, complement each other in growth distribution and ecological niche, and do not, severely, compete with each other for growth and life requirements (Holland and Brummer, 1999; Al-Khateeb et al., 2001) . Forage cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L.) is said to have originated in Africa, where it has become an integral part of traditional cropping systems, particularly in the semiarid West African savanna (Steele, 1972) . As a leguminous forage crop, it is characterized by its high crude protein content (Khan et al., 1987) . In addition, it is known to be drought tolerant (Oduor, 2007) and well adapted to water stress, high temperatures and other biotic stresses (Ehlers and Hall, 1997; Dadson et al., 2005) . It is, therefore, expected to show satisfactory production and adaptation when grown in Egypt during the summer season. On the other hand, sorghum (Sorghum spp.) is an important forage grass that possesses a wide range of ecological adaptability because of its xerophytic characteristics (Ahmad et al., 2007) . Its fodder is fed to almost every class of livestock, and can be used as hay or silage. However, sorghum fodder is poor in quality due to low protein content and presence of hydrocyanic acid (Hingra et al., 1995) . Another summer forage grass grown in Egypt is pearl millet (Pennisetum glaucum L.), which is a quickgrowing and short-duration crop, grown for fodder and grain purposes, and characterized by its high tillering potential, drought and heat tolerance, and high dry matter production (Ayub et al., 2007) . However, similar to other forage grasses, it has a poor protein content and, alone, can't support a sustainable dairy production system. It is, therefore, imperative to improve the hay quality and quantity of fodder grasses. Mixed cropping especially with forage legumes can improve both hay yield and quality, as legumes are a good source of protein (Moreira, 1989) . It is, thus, hypothesized that a successful prospective summer forage grass-legume mixture would be that composed of forage cowpea mixed with sudan grass or pearl millet.
In the present work, we describe a convenient synthesis of spiro-fused D-fructo-and D-psico-configurated oxazoline ligands and their application in asymmetric catalysis. The ligands were synthesized from readily available 3,4,5-tri-O-benzyl-1,2-O-isopropylidene-β-D-fructopyranose and 3,4,5-tri-O-benzyl-1,2-O-isopropylidene-β-D-psicopyranose, respectively. The latter compounds were partially deprotected under acidic conditions followed by condensation with thiocyanic acid to give an anomeric mixture of the corresponding 1,3-oxazolidine-2-thiones. The anomeric 1,3-oxazolidine-2-thiones were separated after successive benzylation, fully characterized and subjected to palladium catalyzed Suzuki-Miyaura coupling with 2-pyridineboronic acid N-phenyldiethanolamine ester to give the corresponding 2-pyridyl spiro-oxazoline (PyOx) ligands. The spiro-oxazoline ligands showed high asymmetric induction (up to 93% ee) when applied as chiral ligands in palladium-catalyzed allylic alkylation of 1,3-diphenylallyl acetate with dimethyl malonate. The D-fructo-PyOx ligand provided mainly the (R)-enantiomer while the D-psico-configurated ligand gave the (S)-enantiomer with a lower enantiomeric excess.
In summary, we have synthesized four spiro-fused carbohydrate ligands in the D-fructo-and D-psico-series via a straightforward synthetic route. The key steps in our synthesis were a Ritter type condensation reaction of partially benzyl-protected D-fructose and D-psicose derivatives with thiocyanic acid to afford the corresponding 1,3-oxazolidine-2-thiones, and the cross coupling of the latter under modified Suzuki-Miyaura conditions. The prepared ligands were shown to be active precatalysts for the asymmetric allylic alkylation of 1,3-diphenylallyl acetate with dimethyl malonate. The D-fructoconfigurated ligands provided the (R)-enantiomer with up to 93% ee, whereas the D-psico-configurated ligands gave the (S)-enantiomer in a somewhat lower selectivity (up to 59% ee). The stereochemical outcome of the reaction could be explained by a proposed transition state of the allylic substitution. Further insights into the reaction mechanism of the allylic substitution using similar PyOx ligands are currently under investigation and will be published elsewhere.
Flaxseed (Linum usitatissimum L.) provides multiple nutritional benefits, including high quality protein, dietary fiber, and is the most abundant source of α-linolenic acid (C 18:3 ). However, the presence of anti-nutritional factors, such as cyanogenic compounds, restricts flaxseed's consumption as a food or feed. This study investigated the reduction of cyanogenic compounds, measured as hydrocyanic acid (HCN), in full-fat flaxseed using extrusion processing without a die by following the response surface methodology. The ranges of processing variables selected were: barrel exit temperature of 76.3-143.6 • C; screw speed of 59.6-160.5 rpm; and feed rate of 26.4-93.6 kg/h. The experimental values of HCN reduction obtained were from 60.8 to 86.6%. Optimum extrusion conditions of barrel exit temperature, screw speed, and feed rate were found to be 143.6 • C, 133.5 rpm, and 57.8 kg/h for maximum (89.1%) reduction of HCN. This effect was mainly dependent on barrel exit temperature, whereas screw speed and feed rate had no or minimal effect. The mutual interaction effect of barrel exit temperature and screw speed was found to be significant (p ≤ 0.01). The degree of correlation (R 2 ) for HCN reduction was 97.2%, which showed the validity of applied secondorder response model. The results of this study demonstrated that significant reduction of HCN in flaxseed can be achieved commercially using an extruder without a die.
Abstract A bacterium, isolated from nodules of chickpea grown in alluvial soils of Haryana state of India, designated as IC-76 was characterized for in vitro plant growth-promoting (PGP) properties and further evaluated under greenhouse, on-station and on-farm field conditions for PGP activity in chickpea. The isolate IC-76 produced indole acetic acid, siderophore, hydrocyanic acid, cellulase, protease, and b-1,3-glucanase. When the bacterium was evaluated individually for their PGP potential in the greenhouse on chickpea and in combination with five Streptomyces sp. (strains CAI-24, CAI-121, CAI-127, KAI-32, and KAI-90; demonstrated earlier as biocontrol potential against Fusarium wilt disease in chickpea), the traits, including nodule number and weight, shoot, and root weight, pod number and weight, seed number and weight, available phosphorus and % organic carbon were found significantly, enhanced over un-inoculated control. In the on-station and on-farm field conditions, IC-76 significantly enhanced nodule number and weight, shoot, and root weight, stover and grain yield and total dry matter. In the rhizosphere (0-15 cm soil), the bacterium also significantly enhanced the total nitrogen, available phosphorus and % organic carbon. The sequence of 16S rDNA gene of the IC-76 was matched with Pseudomonas geniculata in BLAST analysis. This study demonstrates that IC-76 has the potential for PGP in chickpea.
For converting methane and ammonia to hydrocyanic acid, catalysts were prepared and tested in a 48-parallel channel fixed-bed reactor unit operating at temperatures up to 1373 K. The catalysts were synthesized with a robot applying a genetic algorithm as the design tool. New and improved catalyst compositions were discovered by using a total of seven generations each consisting of 92 potential catalysts. Thereby, the catalyst support turned out as an important input variable. Furthermore, platinum, which is well known as a catalytic material was confirmed. Moreover, improvements in HCN yield were achieved by addition of promoters like Ir, Au, Ni, Mo, Zn and Re. Multi-way analysis of variance and regression trees were applied to establish correlations between HCN yield and catalyst composition (support and metal additives). The obtained results are considered as the base for future even more efficient screening experiments. #
A high-temperature process applied in industry is the formation of hydrocyanic acid (HCN) from methane and ammonia. It is realized in two variants, i.e., the oxygen-assisted auto thermal Andrussow process [9] and the BMA process [10] . The oxygen free conversion of ammonia and methane to hydrocyanic acid (BMA process) is an extremely endothermic process typically runs at temperatures between 1273 and 1573 K in ceramic tubes with a platinum-containing catalytic layer on the inner walls [10] . Besides other materials like Al 3 N 4 , BN 3 , TiN 3 and Si 3 N 4 predominantly Al 2 O 3 is chosen as catalyst support [11] . The following two main reactions dominate the conversion of the reactants: 2 (1)
ddonatsh., 1890, 11,452) has shown that when nitrous acid, in common with several otFm oxidising agents, is added to an acid solution of thiocarbamide, the feeble base H N : C( NH,) * S o S* ( Nad) C: N H is produced, for which Fichter and Wenk (Ber., 1912, 45, 1373) have recently proposed the name formamidine disulphide. The prosent author (this vol., p. 2169) has pointed out that Storch's base is only formed by the action of oxidising agents on thiocarbamide when a strong acid ioniser is present. The base can be readily detected in solution, even when present in very small quantity, by (a) the immediate precipitation of sulphur on addition of ammonium hydroxide, and (71) the separation of the crystalline picrate (m. p. 153O) on addition of picric acid solution, When nitrous acid, or an alkali nitrite, was added to a solution of thiocarbamide containing sulphuric, nitric, or any other strong acid, an evanescent, red coloration was produced, whilst gas, consisting chiefly of nitric oxide, was rapidly evolved, and on applying the above tests the presence of formamidine disulphide was a t once revealed. When the same experiment was made with a solution of thiocarbamide containing acetic acid, or any other equally feeble acid ioniser, such as nitrous acid itself, only a faint, yellow coloration was produced, gas was evolved which consisted chiefly of nitrogen, and on the application of the tests no formamidine disulphide could be detected ; the addition of ferric chloride produced an intense blood-red colour due to thiocyanic acid formed as a result of the interaction; no such colour reaction was given with ferric chloride in the former experiment, until an excem of nitrous acid had been added; this is explained later.
Balcerek M., Szopa J. (2012): Ethanol biosynthesis and hydrocyanic acid liberation during fruit mashes fermentation. Czech J. Food Sci., 30: 144-152.
The biosynthesis of ethanol and release of hydrocyanic acid are important factors characterising the fermentation process of fruit mashes. The effects were determined of the fruit pretreatment and method of fermentation (with or without the addition of wine yeast) on the dynamics of ethanol biosynthesis and hydrocyanic acid liberation during fruit mashes fermentation and its concentrations in the spirits obtained. Depending on the fermentation variants, the highest rate of ethanol biosynthesis was observed between the first and third days of plum mashes fermentation, and between the first and fourth days of chokeberry mashes fermentation. In the majority of fermented mashes, the maximum dynamics of HCN liberation was recorded on the first day of the process. Spontaneous fermentation of fruit pulp resulted in much higher amounts of HCN in the spirits obtained (10.5 mg/l of plum spirit 40%, v/v, and 28.90 mg/l of chokeberry spirit 40%, v/v) in relation to the contents observed in the distillates from the mashes fermented with the addition of S. bayanus wine yeast (2.80 mg/l of plum spirit 40%, v/v, and 12.46 mg/l of chokeberry spirit 40%,v/v). The treatment with the pectolytic preparation (PEKTOZYME TM POWERMash) had no significant effect on the concentration of HCN in fruit spirits, whereas the pressure/thermal treatment reduced HCN content, especially in chokeberry distillate, by ca. 71% as compared to the reference spirit (obtained from raw pulp).
Aerogels of polysaccharide with chelating functions can be useful as supports in many applications because of their hosting property. We demonstrate a facile method for the preparation of aerogels of chitosan derivative, “ureido‐chitin” containing ureido functional group. The nanofibrillar networks of “ureido‐chitin” were produced by the nucleophilic addition of amine groups of chitosan with in situ prepared isocyanic acid. The presence of ureido functional groups was confirmed by FT‐IR, solid state CP‐MAS 13C and 15N NMR. No crosslinking of molecular chains was observed. The maximum degree of ureido functional groups was estimated to be about 66%. Characterization by powder XRD confirmed that the polymer chains self‐assembled in a way how the chitin polymers orient themselves in a highly ordered crystalline structure. The nanofibrillar networks showed no solubility under aqueous acidic and alkaline conditions. Bio‐based hosting materials of this kind with two different hosting functional groups: ureido and amine can be potentially utilized for wide applications in aqueous medium including filters, catalysis and biomedicine.
We report artifactual degradation of pharmaceutical compounds containing primary and secondary amines during peroxy radical-mediated oxidative stress carried out using azoalkane initiators. Two degradation products were detected when model drug compounds dissolved in methanol/water were heated to 40°C with radical initiators such as 2,2'-azobis(2-methylpropionitrile) (AIBN). The primary artifact was identified as an α-aminonitrile generated from the reaction of the amine group of the model drug with formaldehyde and hydrogen cyanide, generated as byproducts of the stress reaction. A minor artifact was generated from the reaction between the amine group and isocyanic acid, also a byproduct of the stress reaction. We report the effects of pH, initiator/drug molar ratio, and type of azoalkane initiator on the formation of these artifacts. Mass spectrometry and nuclear magnetic resonance were used for structure elucidation, whereas mechanistic studies, including stable isotope labeling experiments, cyanide analysis, and experiments exploring the effects of butylated hydroxyanisole addition, were employed to support the degradation pathways.
A novel and convenient synthesis of isocyanic acid (HNCO) and its trimer isocyanuric acid has been obtained by the conversion of nitric oxide (NO). Nitric oxide, carbon monoxide, and hydrogen mixed in helium at the level of 0.3 to 5 percent reacted over iridium and palladium catalysts at 280° to 450°C to form HNCO in 60 to 75 percent yield. Major side products were ammonium cyanate at low temperature and ammonia or nitrogen at high temperature. Total conversion of nitrogen from NO to NCO reached 73 percent over palladium and 86 percent over iridium.
Bronsted plots for general acid and general base catalysis of the synthesis of phenylurea from aniline and cyanic acid are nonlinear. The maximum values of the rate constants for general acid and for general base catalysis are similar and the value of βnuc for the buffer catalysed reaction is ca. 1·0. The data are consistent with a mechanism involving a zwitterionic intermediate and a rate-limiting proton-transfer step that is close to diffusion controlled in the thermodynamically favourable direction. Proof that proton transfer to the leaving nitrogen is complete before C–N bond breaking takes place in the cleavage of a substituted urea is provided by the similar rate and equilibrium constants for the reversible reaction of imidazole and N-methylimidazole with cyanic acid.
Abstract The cyanide content of fresh whole-root chips of two cassava varieties (CMC-40, low-cyanide, and CMC-84, high-cyanide) as affected by plant age (9–12 months) was determined monthly, as was the effect of sun-drying, either on concrete floors (plain or black-painted) or on inclined trays, on cyanide elimination. Total cyanide contents in fresh chips of variety CMC-84 were always higher (772 ± 167 vs. 436 ± 111 mg/kg DM) than those of variety CMC-40, and in both varieties cyanide contents in chips decreased as plant age increased. Most of the cyanide in fresh chips was found as bound cyanide (66% for CMC-40 and 79% for CMC-84), but the proportion of free cyanide was higher than values previously determined in the separate root tissues. Sun-drying on inclined trays normally required less time than on a concrete floor; at the fresh chip loading rate used (8.5–9.0 kg m −2 ) for floor drying, no appreciable differences in drying times and cyanide elimination were found between plain and black-painted concrete surfaces. Sun-drying on a concrete floor eliminated more cyanide (86–93% of initial level), for both varieties, than on inclined trays (61–87%). Most of the remaining cyanide in chips dried on a concrete floor was found as free cyanide (62 ± 16% for CMC-40 and 59 ± 18% for CMC-84), but in chips dried on trays these values were considerably lower (25 ± 11% for CMC-40 and 19 ± 8% for CMC-84). Results are discussed in relation to the maximum hydrocyanic acid concentration (100 mg kg −1 ) that has been set as a quality standard for cassava chips or pellets.
To master the chemical behavior of the extraction of hafnium from zirconium in the diisobutyl ketone(DIBK)-TBP system and to guide the practical application of the DIBK-TBP system,the mechanism and characteristics about synergistic extraction of zirconium and hafnium by DIBK and TBP from thiocyanic acid medium were studied through the methods of slope coefficient and saturated volumetric.The results show that hafnium is extracted preferentially in DIBK-TBP system,the reactions of extraction follow the solvate theory.The composition of extracted complex was determined as n(Zr4+(Hf4+)):n(TBP):n(DIBK)=1:1:1,and identified as Zr(SCN)4?TBP?DIBK and Hf(SCN)4?TBP?DIBK,and the possible synergistic extraction complexes structures were further confirmed through the infrared spectra of the loaded organic phase.The extraction and separation effect for zirconium and hafnium can be improved with synergistic mixture of DIBK and TBP.
Reduction of nitrogen oxide (NO x ) emissions from ships due to environmental pollution and greenhouse gas impact has been made obligatory by regulations introduced by the International Maritime Organization (IMO). Basically, NO x emission control mechanisms are divided into primary methods and after-treatment methods. After-treatment methods focus on reducing NO x emissions from the exhaust gas by various methods. In this study, the efficiency of the urea transformation for different exhaust temperature values for a modelled Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) system has been investigated numerically. As a result of numerical model, isocyanic acid, temperature, urea and ammonia values have been determined for Urea-Water Solutions (UWS) process values. The study has been calculated by the computational fluid dynamics (CFD). The numerical results obtained were confirmed by experimental studies from the literature.
Full-dimensional semiclassical dynamical calculations combining classical paths and Bohr quantization of product internal motions are reported for the prototype photofragmentation of isocyanic acid in the S1 state. These calculations allow one to closely reproduce for the first time key features of state-of-the-art imaging measurements at photolysis wavelengths of 201 and 210 nm while providing insight into the underlying dissociation mechanism. Quantum scattering calculations being beyond reach for most polyatomic fissions, pair-correlated data on these processes are much more often measured than predicted. Our theoretical approach can be used to fill this gap.
The acute toxicity of cyanide is determined by its peak levels reached in the body. Compared to the ingestion of free cyanide, lower peak levels may be expected after consumption of foods containing cyanogenic glycosides with the same equivalent dose of cyanide. This is due to possible delayed and/or incomplete release of cyanide from the cyanogenic glycosides depending on many factors. Data on bioavailability of cyanide after consumption of foods containing high levels of cyanogenic glycosides as presented herein were necessary to allow a meaningful risk assessment for these foods. A crossover study was carried out in 12 healthy adults who consumed persipan paste (equivalent total cyanide: 68 mg/kg), linseed (220 mg/kg), bitter apricot kernels (about 3250 mg/kg), and fresh cassava roots (76–150 mg/kg), with each “meal” containing equivalents of 6.8 mg cyanide. Cyanide levels were determined in whole blood using a GC–MS method with K13C15N as internal standard. Mean levels of cyanide at the different time points were highest after consumption of cassava (15.4 µM, after 37.5 min) and bitter apricot kernels (14.3 µM, after 20 min), followed by linseed (5.7 µM, after 40 min) and 100 g persipan (1.3 µM, after 105 min). The double dose of 13.6 mg cyanide eaten with 200 g persipan paste resulted in a mean peak level of 2.9 µM (after 150 min). An acute reference dose of 0.075 mg/kg body weight was derived being valid for a single application/meal of cyanides or hydrocyanic acid as well as of unprocessed foods with cyanogenic glycosides also containing the accompanying intact β-glucosidase. For some of these foods, this approach may be overly conservative due to delayed release of cyanide, as demonstrated for linseed. In case of missing or inactivated β-glucosidase, the hazard potential is much lower.
The convergence of ab initio predictions to the one- and n-particle limits has been systematically explored for several conformational energy prototypes: the inversion barriers of ammonia, water, and isocyanic acid, the torsional barrier of ethane, the E/Z rotamer separation of formic acid, and the barrier to linearity of silicon dicarbide. Explicit ab initio results were obtained with atomic-orbital basis sets as large as [7s6p5d4f3g2h1i/6s5p4d3f2g1h] and electron correlation treatments as extensive as fifth-order Mo/ller–Plesset perturbation theory (MP5), the full coupled-cluster method through triple excitations (CCSDT), and Brueckner doubles theory including perturbational corrections for both triple and quadruple excitations [BD(TQ)]. Subsequently, basis set and electron correlation extrapolation schemes were invoked to gauge any further variations in arriving at the ab initio limit. Physical effects which are tacitly neglected in most theoretical work have also been quantified by computations of non...
Peking whites breeding hens were selected. Using true metabolizable energy method (TME) to evaluate the available nutritive value of acorn kernel, while maize and rice were used as control. The results showed that the contents of gross energy (GE), apparent metabolizable energy (AME), true metabolizable energy (TME) and crude protein (CP) in the acorn kernel were 16.53 mg/kg-1, 11.13 mg.kg-1, 11.66 mg.kg-1 and 10.63%, respectively. The apparent availability and true availability of crude protein were 45.55% and 49.83%. The gross content of 17 amino acids, essential amino acids and semiessential amino acids were 9.23% and 4.84%. The true availability of amino acid and the content of true available amino acid were 60.85% and 6.09%. The contents of tannin and hydrocyanic acid were 4.55% and 0.98% in acorn kernel. The available nutritive value of acorn kernel is similar to maize or slightly lower, but slightly higher than that of rice. Acorn kernel is a wild economic plant resource to exploit and utilize but it contains higher tannin and hydrocyanic acid.
Laser-based kinetic studies of the reactions OH+HNCO→Products (1) and O( 3 P)+HNCO→Products (2) are described. Deuteration of isocyanic acid demonstrates that hydrogen-atom abstraction is an important channel for reaction (1). The kinetic results may be represented by the Arrhenius expressions k 1 (T)=(4.4±0.9)×10 −12 exp [−(5.54±.28) kcal mol −1 /RT] cm 3 molecule −1 s −1 and k 2 (T)=5.4×10 −12 exp [−10.3 kcal mol −1 /RT] cm 3 molecule −1 s −1 . The mechanistic implications of these results on the RAPRENO x process are discussed.
Disclosed is an iodine-based etching solution for etching a material wherein palladium and gold coexist. This etching solution contains at least one additive selected from the group consisting of nitrogen-containing five-membered ring compounds, alcohol compounds, amide compounds, ketone compounds, thiocyanic acid compounds, amine compounds and imide compounds. The etching rate ratio between palladium and gold (etching rate of palladium/etching rate of gold) is not less than 1.
A new, simple, and selective test is described for the detection of nitrite ion with isoperthiocyanic acid (I) as the reagent. The test is based on the reaction of a 5% solution ofI with the nitrite ion solution, a deep orange precipitate being formed. Conversely, the test can be used in the identification ofI itself. Presumably, the coloured product is 3-hydroxy-5-thione-1, 2, 4-dithiazole, formed by the action of nitrous acid (producedin situ by the action of sulphuric acid and nitrite) on the 3-amino group ofI. The limit of detection is 300μg of NO2− in a drop (0.05 ml). Most anions (including IO3−) do not interfere. Only I−, thiourea, and hydrogen peroxide interfere; S2O32− interferes only when present in large amounts.
Abstract A high protein food (11 to 12% protein) patterned on Nigerian gari was developed from ground cassava tuber, acid whey powder, and soy concentrate. The acid whey-soy gari's amino acid profile showed an improvement over that of the Food and Agriculture and World Health Organizations' reference pattern. Flavor and texture of modified acid whey gari were comparable to traditional gari. A 2 to 4 day fermentation of the ground cassava tuber resulted in a characteristics tangy flavor of the product and a loss of more than 50% in hydrocyanic acid content.
This study investigated the effects of varying the duration of cooking on the nutrient composition and levels of some antinutritional factors in lablab seeds. Raw lablab seeds were subjected to four durations of cooking, viz : 15, 30, 45 or 60 minutes respectively, in a drum of boiling water. The samples were dried and assayed for their proximate compositions, mineral contents, presence and levels of trypsin inhibitors (TIA), phytic acid, tannin and hydrocyanic acid (HCN). The raw lablab seeds contained 94.03% dry matter (DM), 26.12% crude protein (CP), 7.86% crude fibre (CF), 2.02% ether extract (EE), 4.43% ash and 59.57% nitrogen free extract (NFE). The proximate composition was not significantly (P>0.05) affected by duration of cooking. Potassium (15.66g/Kg DM) and iron (245.17g/Kg DM) were the most abundant macro and micro mineral elements, respectively in the raw lablab seeds while sodium (0.06g/Kg DM) and copper (53.62 mg/kg DM) were the least for macro and micro minerals, respectively. Except for calcium and sodium, all the minerals assayed were leached significantly (P<0.05) during cooking. Cooking lablab seeds at 1000C for forty-five minutes decreased trypsin inhibitor activity (TIA) from 593.87 mg/100g to 132.00 mg/100g; phytic acid from 5.65 mg/100g to 0.10 mg/100g; tannin from 0.22 mg/100g to 0.10 mg/100g and hydrocyanic acid (HCN) from 1.58 mg/100g to 0.45 mg/100g, respectively. These values correspond to 77.77, 78.93, 54.55 and 71.52 percent reductions in TIA, phytic acid, tannin and hydrocyanic acid, respectively. Cooking lablab seeds for 45 minutes appear to be the optimum for elimination of these antinutrients from lablab seeds. Keywords: Lablab seeds, cooking time, toxic factors, proximate compositions, minerals.
Application of solvent extraction to the polarographic method of analysis is reviewed. In the polarographic method of analysis, in general, the interference of other elements which do not concern to the analysis is avoided in the way of selecting suitable electrolytes, appling .A.C. polarographic method and so on. There are, however, a few cases in which these procedures are not enough to get fine steps in waves. In such cases chemical seperation method must be applied. For the chemical separation method, the solvent extraction is a good one, especially of its high selectivity and its quickness. And combining this solvent extraction and the polarographic method in suitable ways, the extent of the polarographic method of analysis becomes much wider. Solvent extraction may be classified into chetate-and ion association-extraction. Tne former is used mainly for the separation and condensation procedure of elements which are to be determined, for the amount of metal extracted by this method is limited to low degree. The typical solvents for it are dithizone, cupferron and so on, which can be easily decomposed. On the contrary, in the latter, ion association system, a large amount of metal can be extracted, so that it can be applied not only to condensation of trace components but also to removal of principal components, thus it has a large extent of application. For instance, iron is separated and removed away from hydrochloric acid solution by ether extraction, while, in order to determine impurities in indium metal, indium is extracted from hydrobromic acid solution and removed out of the system. For other examples, to determine zinc in cadmium and tin in lead cadmium and zinc are extracted from thiocyanic acid solutions. Recently, amines having hlgn molecular weignn-a liquid anion cxchanger-are marked as a new type of extracting solvents. Extraction procedure with them will be utilized broadly in the case of determination of zinc in copper and in uranium, indium in cadmium and so on. As being applied to the determination of uranium, it seems a very interesting method to determine metal quantities in non-aqueous solution by polarograph. The procedures are as follows; metals are extracted to organic phase and the solution containing metals is diluted with other organic solvent of high polarity. And then, the metals are determined with the polarographic method in this diluted non-aqueous medium. (translated by S. Shibabe)
Full-dimensional semiclassical dynamical calculations are reported for the photofragmentation of isocyanic acid in the S1 state. These calculations, performed for the first time, allow to closely reproduce the key features of high-resolution imaging measurements at photolysis wavelengths of 201 and 210 nm while providing insight into the underlying dissociation mechanism.
Isocyanic acid, HNCO, is the simplest molecule that contains H, C, N and O atoms, which are essential for life and major constituents of chemical species in chemistry and biology. Since its discovery in 1830 [1], HNCO has been identified in diverse media. For instance, this molecule is found in over sixty galactic sources and in nine external galaxies [2, [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] . It is relatively highly abundant and it is suggested to be strongly involved in prebiotic chemistry occurring there. Especially, it is a major component of the photochemistry of building blocks of life (DNA bases and amino acids). Isocyanic acid has been identified in the atmosphere [3, 4] where HNCO sources are from both anthropogenic and biomass burning, and also released from combustion (e.g. fuels, cigarettes [10, 11] ). It is known to be toxic and easily dissolves in water (in lungs) posing obvious health risks such as the development of atherosclerosis, cataracts and rheumatoid arthritis [10, 12] and inflammations that can lead to cardiovascular disease. To-date, the health effects of isocyanic acid, its role in the atmosphere and its photochemistry are not fully known nor understood.
The photochemistry of HNCO under UV radiations or in combustion sources is complex. Besides the importance of isocyanic acid in diverse fields (see above), its unimolecular decomposition processes represent benchmarks for tetratomic molecules evolution upon electronic excitation. Adiabatically, the lowest HNCO singlet elec- * Corresponding authors.
Pseudomonas aeruginosa is an opportunistic pathogen that causes extensive morbidity and mortality in animals and human who are immuno compromised or have underlying infection such as urinary tract, respiratory tract and skin infections and primarily causes of nosocomial infections, and it is frequently resistant to commonly used antibiotics and disinfectants [1, 2] . P. aeruginosa was found only produce exotoxin A which released normally outside the cells [3] . Pseudomonas aeruginosa produces large numbers of extracellular toxins, which include phytotoxic factor, pigments, hydrocyanic acid, proteolytic enzymes, phospholipase, enterotoxin, exotoxin, and slime [1] . The most important factor in the pathogenicity of P. aeruginosa is the elaboration of a group of exotoxins (protein in nature). These exotoxins could cause leukopenia, acidosis, circulatory collapse, necrosis of liver, pulmonary edema, hemorrhage, and tubular necrosis of kidneys. Passive administration of antitoxic sera against these exotoxins can protect against lethal infections with P. aeruginosa in the absence of antibody against the cellular antigens [4] .
The presence of cyanoglucoside in white clover was first reported by Mirande (10) and later identified by Melville and Doak ( 9 ) as consisting of 80% lotaustralin and 20% linamarin. The enzyme that hydrolyzes these glucosides, releasing free hydrocyanic acid has been identified as linamarase by Coop ( 2 ) . Corkill ( 3 ) showed that individual plants could contain both glucoside and enzyme, glucoside enly, enzyme only, or neither constituent. Williams (13), Atwood and Sullivan (1) and Corkill ( 4 ) all concluded that the presence or absence of the glucoside and the enzyme is determined by single dominant genes. Variation in the quantity of glucoside in different plants was ascribed to the effect of modifying genes.
The New Zealand Department of Agriculture has used a picrate test as a means of clover strain identification, following the investigation of Foy and Hyde (8). This test identifies plants that contain the cyanoglucoside and its hydrolyzing enzyme. The picratepaper turns a reddish-brown when hydrocyanic acid is released following hydrolysis. Certified pedigree strains in New Zealand are uniformly high in cyanophoric properties' and the undesirable strains are low. Fifty 8-day-old seedlings are tested and the resulting color of the picrate-paper is compared to a set of standards. If the color is too light, the seed lot is rejected because of the contamination with undesirable strains of white clover. Corkill ( 5 ) has suggested that clover plants uniformly high in enzyme and without the glucoside be used. H e found this clover to be equal in production to the strongly cyanogenetic New Zealand certified pedigree strain.
The classical researches of Ladenburg on the structure of atropine and the synthesis of various tropeins led almost immediately to a wide therapeutic application of homatropine as a mydriatic. Inasmuch as the mydriatic action of atropine is known to be through the parasympathetic nerve-mechanism of the eye, namely, the paralysis of the parasympathetic endings of the oculomotor nerve, it has been generally assumed that the mydriatic action of homatropine or tropin-mandelate was of exactly the same nature. An examination of experimental data on the subject, however, gives no proof to support this assumption. In the present investigation, the author became interested in the pharmacology of homatropine in connection with a study of mandelic acid. This acid is closely related to benzaldehyde and indeed can be readily prepared from the latter by treatment with hydrocyanic acid and water. Inasmuch as the author has already shown that benzaldehyde possesses the antispasmodic or relaxant properties on smooth muscle which are exhibited by benzyl alcohol and certain benzyl esters, it was thought possible that the action of homatropine may be exerted, at least partially, directly on smooth muscle itself. A series of expel iments tended to corroborate his view. In the first place, the action of homatropine on other parasympathetic nerve endings, such as the vagus telminals in the heart, is very much weaker than that of atropine. Whereas a small dose of atropine completely paralyzes the vagus endings in the heart, so that electrical stimulation, even of great intensity, fails to inhibit the heart-beat, it takes about ten times as much homairopine to produce the same effect. In the second place, when such experiments on the vagus are performed it is interesting to note that injections of homatropine are followed by a fall in blood pressure and a vasodilatation which is obvious even to the naked eye, when the intestines are inspected.
Cyanide poisoning is the major problem in sorghum fodder. This poisoning results in livestock mortality and causes economic loss to the people. Some work have been reported on quantity but little work has been focused on quality especially the cyanide content in sorghum fodder in Pakistan. Inheritance mechanism for some fodder yield and quality traits were studied among 25 sorghum genotypes under irrigated and rainfed conditions. Highly significant genotypic as well as genotype x location differences were observed for all the characters studied. Highest genotypic and phenotypic variances were observed for plant height, fresh weight plant -1 , green fodder yield and total cyanide content. Green fodder yield, dry matter yield, fresh weight plant -1 , dry weight plant -1 and total cyanide content depicted high heritability estimates along with high expected genetic advance. There were strong positive genotypic and phenotypic correlations between green fodder yield and number of tillers plant -1 stem thickness, fresh weight plant -1 , dry weight plant -1 and dry matter yield. Strong negative genotypic and phenotypic correlations were observed between total cyanide content and number of tillers plant -1 , stem thickness, fresh weight plant -1 , dry weight plant -1 and green fodder yield. The present study indicates that the indirect selection and simultaneous improvement in sorghum fodder yield as well as quality is feasible because of significant relationship among traits. Key words : Correlation-fodder yield-genetic advance-heritability-hydrocyanic acid, quality traits-Sorghum bicolor.
The reactions of isocyanic acid and of thiocyanic acid with the products of AMADORI rearrangements are described. Thiocyanic acid, especially, is well suited for the characterization of fructosamines. By etherification of the mercapto group and exposure to oxidizing agents, the 2-mercapto-imidazoles can be used for preparation of certain imidazole derivatives which are otherwise difficult to obtain, e.g. 4-formyl-imidazole.
The following evdence supports the conclusion that the reaction of amines with cyanic acid and the hydrolysis of urea occur through a stepwise mechanism with the formation of an intermediate zwitterion. (1) The Bronsted type plot of log10k′versus ammonium ion pKa has a slope βnue 0·3 for basic amines and exhibits a break to a slope βnue 0·8 for weakly basic amines; the two segments are assigned to rate-determining nucleophilic attack and protontransfer steps, respectively. (2) General acid-base catalysis is observed only with weakly basic amines, for which the proton-transfer step is rate determining. (3) A change in rate-determining step with increasing buffer concentration is observed as the uncatalysed attack step becomes rate determining.
Cyanogen contents of seven most consumed cassava based food products in Nasarawa state were evaluated using the alkaline picrate method. These products were subjected to different processing methods such as peeling, washing, grating, fermentation, drying/dewatering, milling/pulvering and frying. The analyses showed reduction in cyanogens contents ranging from 56.33% to 89.58% compare to raw cassava tubers from which they were all produced. These results also showed that cassava processing methods in which fermentation is involved in the multistep processing stages greatly reduced cyanogen contents of the cassava. However, these processing methods did not remove all the cyanogen from the cassava products but reduced it below 10 ppm, recommended by the World Health Organization as safe limit, suggesting that the cassava underwent proper processing to produce safe products. Consumption of these products will not lead to the lethal dose of 35 mg hydrocyanic acid per kg body weight reported by some authors, hence marketing and consumption of these products should be promoted and efforts made to improve the processing methods to further reduce the cyanogen contents of the products. Keyword: Cassava, cyanogens, fermentation, hydrocyanic acid, picric acid,
A method is presented for the determination of isocyanic acid (ICA), HNCO, in air samples as a di-n-butylamine (DBA) derivative. The method is based on sampling in midget impinger flasks containing 10 ml of 0.01 mol l−1 DBA in toluene. Quantification was made using liquid chromatography (LC) and electrospray mass spectrometry (MS) monitoring positive ions. The instrumental detection limit for the LC-MS was 10 fmol of ICA-DBA. ICA was generated by thermal decomposition of urea. A standard solution containing the DBA derivatives of ICA was prepared by collecting the emitted ICA in an impinger flask containing DBA. ICA in the reference solution was characterised by LC and time-of-flight (TOF) MS and quantified by LC chemiluminescent nitrogen detection (LC-CLND). The instrumental detection limit for the LC-CLND was 1 ng of nitrogen. ICA was emitted during thermal degradation ::: of PFU resins and polyurethane (PUR) lacquers, from car metal sheets. ICA was the most dominant isocyanate and in PUR coating up to 8% of the total weight was emitted as ICA and for PFU resins up to 14% was emitted as ICA. When air samples were collected in an iron foundry during casting in sand moulds with furan resins, concentrations of ICA in the range 50–700 µg m−3 were found in the working atmosphere.
SUMMARY ::: ::: Twenty outbreaks of Phalaris aquatica “sudden death” syndrome in sheep were Investigated between 1981 and 1991. Four were confirmed and one was suspected, to be a cardiac disorder; 5 were confirmed and 3 were suspected, to be a polio-encephalomalacic disorder; the aetiology of the remaining 7 outbreaks could not be determined. Potentially toxic levels of hydrocyanic acid (20 to 36 mg/100 g) were measured in the 3 toxic phalaris pastures tested. The measurement of potentially toxic levels of nitrate nitrogen (2920 μg/g) in toxic phalaris pastures by others, was noted. It is suggested that phalaris “sudden death” syndrome could have as many as 4 different underlying mechanisms, and that these might reflect the presence in the plant of a cardio-respiratory toxin, a thiaminase and amine co-substate, cyanogenic compounds, and nitrate compounds.
Thiocyanic acid in organic solvents (i-PrOH Bu2O, AcOH, dioxane) trimerizes to form 1,3,5-trimercapto-sym-triazine.
A thermodynamic analysis was performed on the conversion of hydrocyanic acid to anhydrous ammonia in concentrated ammonia liquors obtained from overall purification schemes used for coke oven gas. The temperature range of treatment (90 to 140/sup 0/C) was chosen in view of the standard low pressure (to 588 kPa) available for the process, and with consideration for the industrial liquor regeneration regime. Samples were collected while retaining the liquor in the reactor without agitation at a constant temperature. Changes in the HCN concentration as a function of retention time are described by logarithmic functions. An effective rate constant was calculated. Results show that in comprehensive schemes for gas treatment by cyclic methods with production of anhydrous ammonia and with ammonia, sulfur and cyanide removal, the principal part of the HCN extracted from the gas in the regneration of the wash liquors and treatment of the NH/sub 3/ liquors will be hydrolyzed at high temperature, and the hydrolysis products will be removed. 4 figures, 1 table.
Abstract. Total reactive nitrogen (Nr, defined as all nitrogen-containing compounds except for N2 and N2O) was measured by catalytic conversion to NO and detection by NO-O3 chemiluminescence together with individual Nr species during a series of laboratory fires of fuels characteristic of Western U.S. wildfires, conducted as part of the FIREX FireLab 2016 study. Data from 75 stack fires were analyzed to examine the systematics of nitrogen emissions. The Nr/total-carbon ratios measured in the emissions were compared with fuel and ash N/C ratios and mass to estimate that a mean (± std. dev.) of 0.68 (± 0.14) of fuel nitrogen was emitted as N2 and N2O. The remaining fraction of Nr was emitted as individual compounds: nitric oxide (NO), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), nitrous acid (HONO), isocyanic acid (HNCO), hydrogen cyanide (HCN), ammonia (NH3), and 44 nitrogen-containing volatile organic compounds (NVOCs). The relative difference between the total reactive nitrogen measurement, Nr, and the sum of measured individual Nr compounds had a mean (± std. dev) of 0.152 (± 0.098). Much of this unaccounted Nr is expected to be particle-bound species, not included in this analysis. A number of key species, e.g. HNCO, HCN and HONO, were confirmed not to correlate only with flaming or only with smoldering combustion when using modified combustion efficiency (MCE = CO2/(CO + CO2)) as a rough indicator. However, the systematic variations of the abundance of these species relative to other nitrogen-containing species were successfully modeled using positive matrix factorization (PMF). Three distinct factors were found for the emissions from combined coniferous fuels, aligning with our understanding of combustion chemistry in different temperature ranges: a combustion factor (Comb-N) (800–1200 °C) with emissions of the inorganic compounds NO, NO2 and HONO, and a minor contribution from organic nitro compounds (R-NO2); a high-temperature pyrolysis factor (HT-N) (500–800 °C) with emissions of HNCO, HCN and nitriles; and a low-temperature pyrolysis factor (LT-N) (
The invention relates to a method for preparing a gingko and tremella mesenterica fruit wine through fermentation by taking gingko as a substrate. The method comprises the following steps of: respectively culturing tremella mesenterica yeast spores and a host bacterium of Stereum hirsutum to obtain seed liquors; performing mixed fermentation culture on the seed liquor of the tremella mesenterica yeast spores and the seed liquor of the host bacterium of Stereum hirsutum to obtain a fermentation liquor; and mixing the fermentation liquor with a ginkgo starch substrate and Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and fermenting to obtain the gingko and tremella mesenterica fruit wine. The alcoholic strength of the prepared gingko and tremella mesenterica fruit wine is over 3 percent, the ginkgo acid is less than 1ppm, and the hydrocyanic acid is less than 0.1 milligram/liter. The gingko and tremella mesenterica fruit wine prepared by the method has radioresistant health-care effect.
Abstract The in-pile evaluation of UPuN as an advanced nuclear fuel requires a material of suitable sintered density and low values of carbon and oxygen contents. The second property is still difficult to achieve since the mechanism of the carbothermic reaction converting UPuO 2 in UPuN is not yet completely known, particularly when the reaction gas is a mixture of hydrogen and nitrogen. Our experiments allow to propose a model explaining the extra CO release and the satisfactory completion of the nitriding process through the existence of hydrocyanic acid (HCN) as an intermediary reactionnal gaseous compound. Mass spectrometric measurements have clearly indicated the existence of cyanamid (CH 2 N 2 ) which is a product of the thermal decomposition of HCN. The suggested mechanism, which concerns merely the surface of the material open to the gas, is as follows: 2 N 2 + 2 H 2 +4 C → 4 HCN and 2 MO 2 +4 HCN → 2 MN + 4 CO + 2 H 2 + N 2 . Apparent activation energies of respectively 244 kJmol −1 and 67 kJmol −1 have been measured for the carbothermic-reduction/nitriding process of UPuO 2 under N 2 and N 2 −6% H 2 .
Abstract The thermal behavior of tetracycline hydrochloride (TC) and chlortetracycline hydrochloride (CTC) antibiotics was evaluated using thermoanalytical techniques TGA-DTA, DSC and evolved gas analysis by TGA-FTIR, providing information regarding thermal stability, decomposition steps and melting. TGA-FTIR revealed hydrochloric acid, water, isocyanic acid, dimethylamine, methane as main decomposition products for both antibiotics. Ammonia and carbon dioxide from the decomposition of the isocyanic acid have also been detected. According to DSC data the melting process occurred just before decomposition at 220.9 °C for TC. Tentative mechanisms for the thermal behavior of TC and CTC are presented.
Pot culture studies were conducted to determine the effect of different levels of nitrogen, phosphorus and soil moisture regimes on the hydrocyanic acid content of Sorghum vulgare Pers. (var. J. S, 263) grown in sandy loam soil deficient in available phosphorus. Significant differences in hydrocyanic acid content developed in plant tops that received different levels of nitrogen High (80 kglha) and medium (40 kg/ha) levels of N when associated with either low (no added phosphorus) or medium (20 kg/ha) levels of P2O5 caused significant increase in HCN content after 35 days of sowing, i.e., before heading as compared to low N (as added nitrogen) and high P2O5 levels (40 kg/ha). High levels of P2O5 (40 kg/ha) tended to limit the production of cy-nide regardless of the associated levels of nitrogen. There was no consistent response to soil moisture regimes.
This paper describes the reaction of benzoylisothiocyanates with ortho -phenylenediamines forming the corresponding bisthioureas which undergo cyclization with elimination of thiocyanic acid on refluxing in pyridine leading to the format ion of 2-arylbenzimidazoles. The products have been characterized on the basis of satisfactor y analytical and spectral (IR, NMR, MS) data, and the mechanism of their formation is proposed.
Variation in hydrocyanic acid potential (HCN-p) was studied in three sudangrass [Sorghum sudanense (Piper) Stapf] strains and S. almum Parodi. Under field conditions, nitrogen application did not result in a significant change in HCN-p, but strain and stage of growth when sampled had highly significant effects. ‘Sweet’ sudan. grass and S. almum were high in HCN-p, while ‘Piper’ and Line 109 (LI09) sudangrasses were low in HCN-p. Forty-five days after planting HCN.p peaked, then dropped sharply during the following 15-day interval. ::: ::: In the first experiment performed under controlled environmental conditions, HCN-p differences among the four strains were highly significant. When P concentration in Hoagland'fss solution was increased from 0.0 ppm to 31.0 ppm, HCN-p was reduced significantly. Lowering the temperature from 30 C day/20 C night to 20/10 C resulted in a highly significant increase in HCN-p. In the second growth room experiment, a low HCN-p strain, L109, was significantly lower in HCN-p than the cultivar, Piper, under three N levels. HCN-p was associated with N-level, being lowest at the low N rate. Under both 30/20 C and 20/10 C temperature regimes, HCN-p was higher when the plants were 30 days old, than when they were 45 days old. Also, HCN-p was lower at 30/20 C than at 20/10 C. When both temperature regimes were lowered to 10/10 C for 10 days, the HCN-p in 55-day old plants was greater than in the 45-day old plants. On the other hand, further reduction of temperature to −5/−5 C for one day at day 55, resulted in the lowest HCN-p 56 days after planting
The effect of adding 330–4930 ppm hydrogen to a reaction mixture of NO and CO (2000 ppm each) over platinum and rhodium catalysts has been investigated at temperatures around 200–250°C. Hydrogen causes large increases in the conversion of NO and, surprisingly, also of CO. Oxygen atoms from the additional NO converted are eventually combined with CO to give CO2 rather than react with hydrogen to form water. This reaction is described by CO + NO +3/2H2 → CO2 + NH3 and accounts for 50–100% of the CO2 formed with Pt/Al2O3 and 20–50% with Rh/Al2O3. With the latter catalyst a substantial amount of NO converted produces nitrous oxide. Comparison with a known study of unsupported noble metals suggests that isocyanic acid (HNCO) might be an important intermediate in a reaction system with NO, CO and H2 present.
The total cyanogenic potential of various substrates (flax seed, stones of peach, plum, nectarine and apricot as well as apple seeds, and various model compounds) was investigated by using the acid hydrolysis method, picrate method, and a novel method based on the reaction of cyanide liberated from plants with resorcinol and picrate. The hydrocyanic acid liberated from cyanogens was trapped by using a 1% sodium bicarbonate. Then, 1 ml of extract was mixed with 1 ml of working reagent containing 160 microg of resorcinol, 320 microg of picric acid, and 30 mg of sodium carbonate, and heated on a boiling water bath for 10 min. The absorbance was measured at 488 nm in 1cm glass cuvettes at room temperature. The color system obeys Beer's law in the range of 0-5 microg ml(-1) total HCN. Using model compounds and real samples including replicate analyses on prunasin, the resorcinol method proved to be more accurate, reproducible, and especially more sensitive than the known spectrophotometric methods such as the acid hydrolysis method and the picrate method.
A limiting characteristic for human or animal population that depend on cassava roots as food is the toxicity of hydrogen cyanide/hydrocyanic acid (HCN) which occurs as a result of the hydrolysis of cyanogenic glucosides [7, 8, 9] , a group of nitrile containing compounds that yield cyanide following their enzymatic breakdown [10, 11, 12] . Many plant species produce and sequester cyanogenic glycosides but the most agronomically important of the cyanogenic crops is cassava (Manihot esculenta ,Crantz).The levels of the cyanogens vary considerably between tissues [13] depending on many factors such as cultivar [14, 15] ;climatic conditions [14, 16] ; Age of Cassava at Harvesting [17, 18] and Post Harvest Practices [19, 20, 21] .The cyanogenic glycosides is toxic to humans,if consumed without prior treatment leading to vomiting, exacerbate goitre, cretinism in iodine-deficient regions, nausea, dizziness, stomach pains, weakness, headache, diarrhea, paralysis, neurological disorders, Tropical Ataxic Neuropathy (TAN), stunting of children and occasionally, death [22, 23, 24] . Most Nigerians who consume cassava and its products do not develop most of these diseases because of the way the cassava is prepared [5] and variation in consumption of other foods and supplements, especially animal protein [6] .However, there is a great concern about the levels of cyanogens in many varieties of cassava products, in order to prevent cyanide poisoning, medium and high cyanide cassava roots require some form of processing like peeling, washing, grating, fermentation, drying/dewatering, milling/ pulvering and frying/roasting, to significantly reduced the level of the cyanogens contents to the safe limit [20, 25, 26, 27] before they are consumed. The aim of this study was to assess the cyanogen contents in various cassava based food products to determine the effects of different processing methods on the cyanogen contents.
All parts of the cassava plants contain cyanogens that are hydrolyzed to hydrocyanic acid (HCN) that escapes into the air during harvesting and processing (Bokanga et al., 1994; Fakir et al., 2009) . At harvest of cassava tubers, the amount of HCN acids varies from harmless to lethal. The lethal dose of HCN is 50mg/kg fresh weight. Hydrolysis of glycoside by the enzyme can be accelerated by soaking the roots in water, by crushing or cutting them or by heating. HCN content of cassava roots could thus be reduced to a great extent by treating in such ways (Fakir et al., 2010) . Although literatures on botany, physiology, nutrient content and HCN is available at home and abroad (Grace, 1977; Alves, 2002; Anonymous, 2004; Charles et al., 2005; Islam et al., 2008; Fakir et al., 2009 Fakir et al., , 2010 Fakir et al., , 2011 , there is scanty information in Bangladesh on methods of flour and starch production and proximate composition of cassava tuber (Jannat, 2011; Fakir et al., 2012) . So it was necessary (i) to estimate the dry matter content of plant parts; (ii) to investigate the methods of flour/starch extraction; and (iii) to determine the proximate composition of tuber of seven cassava accessions.
This paper describes the reaction of benzoylisothiocyanates with ortho-phenylenediamines forming the corresponding bisthioureas which undergo cyclization with elimination of thiocyanic acid on refluxing in pyridine leading to the formation of 2-arylbenzimidazoles. The products have been characterized on the basis of satisfactory analytical and spectral (IR, NMR, MS) data, and the mechanism of their formation is proposed.
The present invention relates to a color filter ink-jet ink, a composition comprising: 0.1 to 40wt% pigment, 1 to 95wt% of the solvent, 0.01 to 15wt% of the initiator, and 0.5 to 80wt% of a high molecular oligonucleotide modified polymer, the modified product has one or more functional groups or functional group: hydrocyanic acid group, isocyanate group, thiol group, an amide group, siloxy, alkylthio, ureido, a carboxyl group, a phosphoric acid group and a sulfone group. The color filter ink-jet ink of the present invention in a suitable amount of polymer modified oligonucleotide and the polymer-substituted organic polymer resin monomer material to obtain a crosslinked and a high stability of the color inkjet ink filter .
Abstract does not appear. First page follows. ::: Introduction ::: About 1914, the California red scale, Aonidiella aurantii (Mask.), was first observed to have become difficult to kill by hydrocyanic acid ::: fumigation in a small district at Corona, California (Quayle, 1938), p. 187).4 Since that time, resistance of red scale to fumigation has increased throughout many ::: of the citrus areas of southern California. ::: In 1936, the two recognized strains of red scale, “resistant” and “nonresistant,” ::: were obtained from Corona and Glendora, California, respectively, and were grown in ::: separate insectproof rooms in the insectary at the Citrus Experiment Station. Banana ::: squash and, later, grapefruits were infested from these stocks at intervals of approximately ::: six months and fumigated to determine whether these strains would maintain their difference ::: in susceptibility to HCN. Preliminary results (Quayle, 1938) showed that the differences were maintained through several generations; later results ::: have confirmed this (Lindgren, 1941) and show that resistance to fumigation is inherited. ::: The experiment described in this paper was conducted to determine how resistance to ::: HCN fumigation is inherited in the red scale. ::: Review of Literature ::: (Hough (1928)), working with two strains of codling moth which differed in their ability to enter ::: arsenic-sprayed apples, crossed the two strains and found the F1 hybrids intermediate between the parental strains in this regard. Later he reported ::: (Hough, 1929) that the F1 hybrids from the reciprocal crosses were similar and that the F2 resembled the F1. By 1934 he had carried the progeny of both crosses to the F10 and still found them similar and intermediate between the parental strains (Hough, 1934). F5 moths from these crosses were backcrossed with each parental strain, and in each ::: case the resulting progeny were found to approach, but not to be identical with, the ::: introduced parental strain in ability to enter arsenic-sprayed fruit.
This study shows a simple, rapid, and specific method for the quantitative determination of cyanide ion in body fluids, especially blood, by fluorimetry. It is based upon the transformation of cyanide ion into hydrocyanic acid, which then reacts with 2,3-naphthalenedialdehyde and taurine in a self-contained system. The 1-cyano-2-benzoisoindole derivate thus formed is suitable for fluorimetric measurement (lambdaEX = 418 nm; lambdaEM = 460 nm). The fluorescence intensity can be determined by spectrophotometry or by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with fluorescence detection. The detection limit is 0.002 microg/mL. Linearity was excellent from 0.002 to 1 microg/mL for spectrophotometry and from 0.002 to 5 microg/mL for HPLC with fluorescence detection. The coefficient of variation for repeatability was 8% or less. Thiocyanate and sulfide did not interfere, even at high concentrations (200 microg/mL). The method was applicable to whole blood, so it should be suitable for both clinical and forensic purposes.
Picolinamide (PA) and isonicotinamide (INA), two structural isomers of pyridinecarboxamide, have been investigated by matrix isolation and low-temperature solid-state infrared spectroscopy, combined with UV (lambda > 235 nm) photoexcitation and density functional theory and ab initio (MP2) theoretical studies. In consonance with the theoretical data, both PA and INA were found to exist in a single conformation in cryogenic rare gas matrixes. Comparison between the experimental spectra of the matrix-isolated compounds with those theoretically predicted allowed for full assignment of the experimental spectra. In situ UV (lambda > 235 nm) irradiation of the matrixes showed that only PA reacts, with production of isocyanic acid and pyridine, the first photoproduct further reacting to yield CO + NH and cyanic acid. The different photochemical behavior of the two compounds was explained taking into consideration their different structures. The infrared spectra of (i) the low-temperature glassy state resulting from fast deposition of vapors of the compounds onto a substrate cooled to 10 K, (ii) the crystal resulting from the annealed amorphous film of the compound, and (iii) the room-temperature crystals (alpha-phase) of the studied compounds were also obtained, fully assigned and correlated with intermolecular interactions present in the condensed phases, in particular H-bond interactions, showing that these latter are stronger in INA than in PA.
This study uses a global chemical transport model to estimate the distribution of isocyanic acid (HNCO). HNCO is toxic, and concentrations exceeding 1 ppbv have been suggested to have negative health effects. Based on fire studies, HNCO emissions were scaled to those of hydrogen cyanide (30%), resulting in yearly total emissions of 1.5 Tg for 2008, from both anthropogenic and biomass burning sources. Loss processes included heterogeneous uptake (pH dependent), dry deposition (like formic acid), and reaction with the OH radical (k = 1 × 10−15 molecule−1 cm3 s−1). Annual mean surface HNCO concentrations were highest over parts of China (maximum of 470 pptv), but episodic fire emissions gave much higher levels, exceeding 4 ppbv in tropical Africa and the Amazon, and exceeding 10 ppbv in Southeast Asia and Siberia. This suggests that large biomass burning events could result in deleterious health effects for populations in these regions. For the tropospheric budget, using the model-calculated pH the HNCO lifetime was 37 days, with the split between dry deposition and heterogeneous loss being 95%:5%. Fixing the heterogeneous loss rate at pH = 7 meant that this process dominated, accounting for ∼70% of the total loss, giving a lifetime of 6 days, and resulting in upper tropospheric concentrations that were essentially zero. However, changing the pH does not notably impact the high concentrations found in biomass burning regions. More observational data is needed to evaluate the model, as well as a better representation of the likely underestimated biofuel emissions, which could mean more populations exposed to elevated HNCO concentrations.
Absolute rate coefficients for the reaction of NH(X 3 Σ − )+NO→products ( k 1 ) and NH(X 3 Σ − )+O 2 →products ( k 2 ) were measured as a function of temperature in a heatable quartz reactor by means of the laser photolysis/laser-induced fluorescence (LP/LIF) pump-probe technique. NH(X 3 Σ − ) radicals were produced by the 193 nm photolysis of isocyanic acid in the presence of a large excess of xenon. The measured rate coefficients can be described by the following expressions: k 1 (293 T 14.18 ×( T /298 K) −1.60±0.01 exp(−3.8±0.2 kJ mol −1 /RT) cm 3 mol −1 s −1 ; k 2 (293 T 9.38 ×( T /298 K) (3.34±0.15) × exp(2.3±0.4 kJ mol −1 /RT) cm 3 mol −1 s −1 . For the reaction NH(X 3 Σ − )+NO (1), the branching ratio β= k 1a / k 1 into the OH product channel−NH(X 3 Σ − ) + NO → OH + N 2 (1a)—was measured by means of a calibration method to be β=(0.15±0.05) at 300 K. In addition, the following temperature-dependent removal rate coefficient for NH(X 3 Σ − , v =1) by NO was measured: k 1( v =1 (293 T 13.68 ×( T /298 K) −0.71 × exp(0.27±0.01 kJ mol −1 /RT) cm 3 mol −1 s −1 .
Hydroxynitrile lyases (Hnls) are enzymes that catalyse the stereoselective addition of hydrocyanic acid to aldehydes and ketones and the reverse reaction, the decomposition of cyanohydrins. This biotransformation (in the synthesis direction) can generate a product with a new chiral centre which possesses geminal difunctionality, i.e. a hydroxyl and nitrile moiety at a single carbon atom, and which also represents a versatile synthetic intermediate in organic chemistry. Currently, this area of research is sufficiently well established that enzymes for the synthesis of either (R)- or (S)-cyanohydrins are available. The Hnl from almonds, Prunus amygdalus (PaHnl), provides an easy access to (R)-cyanohydrins. Further, recent advances in cloning and overexpression techniques have provided two of these (S)-Hnl enzymes, those from Hevea brasiliensis (HbHnl) and Manihot esculenta (MeHnl), in sufficient quantities for potential application to industrial syntheses. Further, the crystallisation of the Hnl from HbHnl has revealed new information about their 3D structure and a tentative reaction mechanism for cyanohydrin cleavage has been postulated.
FVT of pyrroledione 10 affords the NH-imidoylketene 11, which is characterized by its matrix isolation IR spectrum (2117 cm−1). On warming above 170 K, 11 dimerizes to the oxazinone 13, the X-ray crystal structure of which is reported. Imidoylketene 11 also undergoes a (reversible) 1,3-phenyl shift to afford the detectable α-oxoketenimine 16 (2062 cm−1) which at FVT temperatures above 400 °C, isomerizes to 2-cyano-2-phenylacetophenone 18 (optimally at 700 °C). Moreover, imidoylketene 11 can cyclize to azetinone 19, detectable at FVT temperatures up to 570 °C, which undergoes cycloreversion to diphenylacetylene 20 and isocyanic acid (HNCO) 21. Energy profiles calculated at the B3LYP/6-31G** level for the unsubstituted imidoylketene, the diphenylimidoylketene 11 and the N-tert-butylimidoylketene are also reported.
Carbamylation constitutes a posttranslational modification of proteins or amino acids and results from different pathways in vivo. First is the non-enzymatic reaction between isocyanic acid, a decomposition product of urea, and either the N-terminus or the ɛ-amino group of lysine residues. Isocyanic acid levels, while low in vivo, are in equilibrium with urea and are thus increased in chronic and end-stage renal diseases. An alternative pathway involves the leukocyte heme protein myeloperoxidase, which catalyzes the oxidation of thiocyanate in the presence of hydrogen peroxide, producing isocyanate at inflammation sites. Notably, plasma thiocyanate levels are increased in smokers, and leukocyte-driven protein carbamylation occurs both within human and animal atherosclerotic plaques, as well as on plasma proteins. Protein carbamylation is considered a hallmark of molecular aging and is implicated in many pathological conditions. Recently, it has been shown that carbamylated low-density lipoprotein (LDL) induces endothelial dysfunction via lectin-like-oxidized LDL receptor-1 activation and increased reactive oxygen species production, leading to endothelial nitric oxide synthase uncoupling. Moreover, carbamylated LDL harbors atherogenic activities, including both binding to macrophage scavenger receptors inducing cholesterol accumulation and foam-cell formation, as well as promoting vascular smooth muscle proliferation. In contrast, high-density lipoprotein loses its anti-apoptotic activity after carbamylation, contributing to endothelial cell death. In addition to involvement in atherogenesis, protein carbamylation levels have emerged as a particularly strong predictor of both prevalent and incident cardiovascular disease risk. Recent studies also suggest that protein carbamylation may serve as a potential therapeutic target for the prevention of atherosclerotic heart disease.
The nutritional composition, in vitro organic matter digestibility (IVOMD) and anti-nutritive properties of cassava (Manihot esculenta Crantz) leaves were investigated at three stages of leaf maturity (very young, young and mature leaves). The crude protein and carbohydrate contents decreased with maturity, whereas all other proximal and fibre components increased. ::: ::: The mineral profile showed cassava leaves to be good sources of most minerals, particularly of calcium and trace minerals. The P and Na contents, however, were low. The values for K, Mg, P, Zn and Mn decreased with leaf maturity, while those for Ca, Na and Fe increased. ::: ::: Cassava leaves were found to be rich in all essential amino acids, except methionine and phenylalanine. As the leaves matured, the tendency was for the amino acid concentrations to decrease. Only glutamic acid, proline and glycine contents increased, while those of valine and phenylalanine were unaffected. ::: ::: The levels of phytic acid increased with leaf ageing, while tannin and hydrocyanic acid contents decreased. The nutritional significance of these anti-nutritive factors is discussed. The IVOMD values indicate the potential value of cassava leaves as a ruminant feed.
The highly homologous hydroxynitrile lyases from Manihot esculent (MeHNL) and Hevea brasiliensis (HbHNL) both belong to the α/β-hydrolase superfamily, and they convert cyanohydrins into the corresponding ketone (aldehyde) and hydrocyanic acid, which is important for biosynthesis for carbon–carbon formation. On the basis of extensive MM and ab initio QM/MM MD simulations, one-dimensional and two-dimensional free energy profiles on the whole enzymatic catalysis by MeHNL have been explored, and the effects of key residues around the channel on the delivery of substrate and product have been discussed. The residue Trp128 plays an important gate-switching role to manipulate the substrate access to the active site and product release. In particular, the release of acetone and HCN has been first detected to follow a stepwise mechanism. The release of HCN is quite facile, while the escape of acetone experiences a barrier of ∼10 kcal/mol. The chemical reaction is an endergonic process with a free energy barrier of...
Abstract : The object of project A 10.2 is to determine the toxicity of various substances in order to estimate their value as possible war agents. The object of the work described in this report was to determine the median lethal concentrations of phosgene for white mice for exposure periods of 2 and 30 minutes and an observation period of ten days. The work was done in order to secure additional data for comparison of the toxicity of cyanogen chloride, hydrocyanic acid and phosgene. Conclusions: 1. The median lethal concentration of phosgene for white mice, for an exposure period of 2 minutes and an observation period of ten days, is 2.35 mg/l, with an average deviation of 0.25 mg/l. 2. The median lethal concentration of phosgene for mice, for an exposure period of 30 minutes and an observation period of ten days, is 0.112 mg/l, with an average deviation of 0.016 mg/l.
The equilibrium constant for the extraction of thiocyanic acid by methylisobutyl ketone at constant ionic strength, depends on the nature of alkaline cations present in the aqueous phase. The phenomenon could be explained by the existence of ion pairs for which the association constant Kp is derivable. However the extraction of chlorpromazinium thiocyanate by the same solvent and the formation of the monothiocyanate complex of zirconium in aqueous phase are both independent of the nature of the electrolyte. The observed variations for the extraction of thiocyanic acid which exist also for the extraction of hydrochloric and perchloric acids by methylisobutyl ketone, result from the variation of species activities with a change in the identity of the cations.
To make clear DNA molecular characteristics of ISSR characteristic fragments related to super low hydrocyanic acid content in Sorghum-Sudangrass,ISSR characteristic fragment H-1,H-2 and H-3 related to super low hydrocyanic acid content in hybrid F2 of loose spike Sorghum×black shell Sudangrass and ISSR characteristic fragment B-1,B-2 and B-3 related to super low hydrocyanic acid content in hybrid F2 of loose spike Sorghum×white shell Sudangrass were cloned and sequence was tested.The results showed that whole length of the cloned fragment H-1 was 1377bp,the sequence contained a complete coding region(ORF) of 1357bp in length,located in the 743bp～1099bp region,coding 119 amino acids,the homology of the fragment with that of wheat subspecies was 60%.Whole length of fragment H-2 was 2268bp,the sequence contained a complete coding region(ORF) of 279bp in length,located in the 735bp～1013bp region,coding 93 amino acids,the homology of the fragment with SORBIDRAFT_05g027190 of sorghum was 63.9%,and the homology of the fragment with OsJ_07776 of rice was 62%.Whole length of fragment H-3 was 2614bp,the sequence contained a complete coding region(ORF) of 339bp in length,located in the 1024bp～1362bp region,coding 113 amino acids.Whole length of fragment B-1 was 1432bp,the sequence contained a complete coding region(ORF) of 1300bp in length,located in the 700bp～999bp region,coding 100 amino acids.Whole length of fragment B-2 was 1363bp,the sequence contained a complete coding region(ORF) of 228bp in length,located in the 603bp～830bp region,coding 76 amino acids.Whole length of fragment B-3 was 2751bp,the sequence contained a complete coding region(ORF) of 1186bp in length,located in the 2534bp～2719bp region,coding 62 amino acids.Fragment H-3,B-1,B-2 and B-3 had no homology with known plant base sequence and amino acid sequence,they may be more closely related to super low hydrocyanic acid content of new DNA sequences.
Thermodynamic characterization of linamarase (β-glucosidase)influenced by linamarin substrate purification, pH and temperature were investigated. In the study, recombinant Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells at the stationary phase of growth were recovered, homogenized and centrifuged to obtain crude extracts designated as GELIN 0 . Carboxy methyl cellulose, diethyl amino-ethyl-sephadex and diethyl amino-ethyl-cellulose were used to purify the crude extracts resulting in GELIN 1 , GELIN 2 and GELIN 3 , respectively. Commercial native linamarase (CNLIN) was purchased and used as control. The ability of the GELIN extracts(β-glucosidase) and the commercial native linamarase (CNLIN) to hydrolyse cyanogenic glucosides was challenged using linamarin extracted from cassava as substrates. Degradation of linamarin was evaluated at optimum pH 6.8 using a 4 × 6 × 8 between and within factorial design comprising of 4 enzyme types (GELIN 0 , GELIN 1 , GELIN 2 and GELIN 3 ), and 6 temperatures (25, 27, 29, 31, 33, 35 o C, respectively) and 8 time intervals (0, 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60 and 70 min.). Data obtained from residual hydrocyanic acid with time were fitted with zero, first and second order kinetics, respectively, to determine the best fit order (based on r 2 and linearity). Arrhenius and absolute reaction rate models were applied to obtain activation energies (E a ), frequency factor (K 0 ) and enthalpy (ΔH # ), entropy (ΔS # ), respectively, that characterized the reactions. The results indicated that the degradation of linamarin by GELIN at the optimum pH 6.8 was best described by first order kinetics, Arrhenius and absolute reaction rate models showing high coefficient of linear regression (r 2 >0.996) with reaction rate constant increasing from 0.0252 -0.0923 min -1 with enzyme purification ranging for GELIN 0 – GELIN 3 . Frequency factor (K o ), E a , ΔH # and ΔS # values decreased with enzyme purification. Activation energy (E a ) values for the degradation of linamarin (GELIN 0 – GELIN 3 ) ranged from 60.9 to 91.7 kJ/mol. Enthalpy values varied from 58 to 89 kJ/mol while ΔS # values varied from -92.8 to 4.1 J/mol. deg.) indicating spontaneous and irreversible degradation reactions which suggest a possible use of the purified linamarase (β-glucosidase) in detoxification process for foods containing linamarin. Keywords: purified linamarase, rate models, linamarin, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, cassava
The Futura continuous flow analyzer(CFA) was applied to the determination of cyanide in environmental water samples.It was found that chlorine cyanide was obtained by the reaction of hydrocyanic acid with chloramine T in a medium of pH 3.8,and a red complex was formed by the colour reaction of chlorine cyanide with isonicotinic acid and 1,3-dimethylbarbituric acid,the absorption maximum of which was found at the wavelength of 600 nm.Linearity range of cyanide was kept in the range within 272.0 μg·L-1,with detection limit(3s/k) of 0.4 μg·L-1.The proposed method was used in the analysis of environmental water samples,giving values of recovery in the range of 91.9%-108.5%.
It has been shown by Crabtree and Cramer1 that tumour cells vary greatly in sensitivity to radiation, when subjected to conditions which effects cellular respiration. The following table, to which urethane has been added, epitomises their results. In a previous paper2 these findings were confirmed for the increased sensitivity of cold and the decreased sensitivity of nitrogen anaeobiosis. It will be seen that now the increased sensitivity of hydrocyanic acid is also confirmed, using bean roots, and to the list is added the unaltered sensitivity under urethane. Further the mitotic activity of the cells has been observed under these controlled conditions, in order to see whether there is any correlation between sensitivity and the state of mitosis at the time of radiation. Previously2 it was shown that when bean roots are exposed under water at room temperature for one hundred minutes to a square applicator of sixty milligrams of radium, screened by 0·12 mm. silver and 3 mm. lead, distance 1 mm., then there ...
BS>Satisfactory chromatographic separation of zirconium and thorium was achieved employing a solution of thiocyanic acid in isobutyl alcohol-water- pyridine by ascending and circular paper chromatographic techniques are reported. (auth)
Calcium carbamoyl phosphate (1) was prepared by adding an aqueous calcium chloride solution to a reaction solution of KH2PO4 with KOCN. 1 was unstable at room temprature. 1 was dehydrated to make anhydrous salt and thermally decomposed to liberate ammonia, cyanic acid, and carbon dioxide, finally resulting in the formation of calcium pyrophosphate in air. The apparent activation energies for the three endothermic peaks of the DTA curve were estimated to be 50.0, 83.9, and 148.3 kJ mol−1 respectively. The hydrolysis of 1 in an aqueous solution apparently obeyed the first-order kinetics. The activation parameters for the hydrolysis of 1 were evaluated by using the 31P NMR spectra of 1 with the lapse of the reaction time. The activation energy was 92.2 kJ mol−1; the activation enthalpy, 89.7 kJ mol−1, and the activation entropy, −6.3 e.u.
Abstract We found out that the reactor suggested for pyrolysis in fluidized bed conditions, with indirect heating of the stock, proved to be convenient for the preparation of cyanuric and isocyanic acids. Under optimal conditions the yield of cyanuric acid from urea was 95% with 96% selectivity, i.e. the content of by-products is considerably lower than in case of processing in the static bed reactor. In the same reactor we prepared isocyanic acid from cyanuric acid in quantitative yield. The amount of gaseous isocyanic acid emitted was up to 50%. The isocyanic acid obtained was utilized in a reaction with aromatic and aliphatic amines to get mono- and disubstituted ureas. In connection with these experiments we studied the kinetics of the degradation of cyanuric acid and trimerization of isocyanic acid to obtain a quantitative description of the process.
Twenty-seven actinomycetes isolated from vermicompost and rhizosphere soils were screened for their antagonistic potential against fungal pathogens of chickpea and sorghum. Eight isolates (BCA-657, BCA-671, BCA-679, BCA-687, BCA-690, CAI-67, CAI-70 and CAI-98) showed broad-spectrum antagonistic activity in dual-culture assay and metabolite inhibition assay. The isolates exhibited growth at pH 7−11, up to 10% saline (except BCA-687, CAI-67 and CAI-70) at 20−40 °C (BCA-679 and BCA-690 exhibited growth even at 50 °C) and produced siderophore, chitinase, cellulase, lipase, and protease with some exceptions, including hydrocyanic acid and indole acetic acid. At field application level, all the isolates tolerated the fungicide Bavistin. The sequences of 16S rDNA gene of the isolates matched with Streptomyces but with different species in the BLAST analysis. This study indicates that the selected actinomycetes have broad-spectrum biocontrol and plant growth promotion potential
This study shows a simple, rapid, and specific method for the quantitative determination of cyanide ion in body fluids, especially blood, by fluorimetry. It is based upon the transformation of cyanide ion into hydrocyanic acid, which then reacts with 2,3-naphthalenedlaldehyde and taurine in a self-contained system. The 1-cyano-2-benzoisoindole derivate thus formed is suitable for fluorimetric measurement (~EX = 418 nm; ~EM = 460 nm). The fluorescence intensity can be determined by spectrophotometry or by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with fluorescence detection. The detection limit is 0.002 pg/mL. Linearity was excellent from 0.002 to 1 pg/ml, for spectrophotometry and from 0.002 to 5 pg/mL for HPLC with fluorescence detection. The coefficient of variation for repeatability was 8% or less. Thiocyanate and sulfide did not interfere, even at high concentrations (200 pg/mL). The method was applicable to whole blood, so it should be suitable for both clinical and forensic purposes.
The method suggested here is based upon the transformation of cyanide by acidification into hydrocyanic acid, followed by its reaction with 2,3-naphthalenedialdehyde and taurine (17) in a self-contained system. In contrast to Sano et al. (17), the preparation of the samples can take place in a single step because the release of the cyanide (in 20-mL headspace vials) and the subsequent derivatization to a 1-cyano-2-benzoisoindole compound (in a 2-mL tube) is realized by a spatial separation.
Picolinamide (PA) and isonicotinamide (INA), two structural isomers of pyridinecarboxamide, have been investigated by matrix isolation and low-temperature solid-state infrared spectroscopy, combined with UV (λ > 235 nm) photoexcitation and density functional theory and ab initio (MP2) theoretical studies. In consonance with the theoretical data, both PA and INA were found to exist in a single conformation in cryogenic rare gas matrixes. Comparison between the experimental spectra of the matrix-isolated compounds with those theoretically predicted allowed for full assignment of the experimental spectra. In situ UV (λ > 235 nm) irradiation of the matrixes showed that only PA reacts, with production of isocyanic acid and pyridine, the first photoproduct further reacting to yield CO + NH and cyanic acid. The different photochemical behavior of the two compounds was explained taking into consideration their different structures. The infrared spectra of (i) the low-temperature glassy state resulting from fast deposition of vapors of the compounds onto a substrate cooled to 10 K, (ii) the crystal resulting from the annealed amorphous film of the compound, and (iii) the room-temperature crystals (R-phase) of the studied compounds were also obtained, fully assigned and correlated with intermolecular interactions present in the condensed phases, in particular H-bond interactions, showing that these latter are stronger in INA than in PA.
[1] This study uses a global chemical transport model to estimate the distribution of isocyanic acid (HNCO). HNCO is toxic, and concentrations exceeding 1 ppbv have been suggested to have negative health effects. Based on fire studies, HNCO emissions were scaled to those of hydrogen cyanide (30%), resulting in yearly total emissions of 1.5 Tg for 2008, from both anthropogenic and biomass burning sources. Loss processes included heterogeneous uptake (pH dependent), dry deposition (like formic acid), and reaction with the OH radical (k = 1 Â 10 À15 molecule À1 cm 3 s À1 ). Annual mean surface HNCO concentrations were highest over parts of China (maximum of 470 pptv), but episodic fire emissions gave much higher levels, exceeding 4 ppbv in tropical Africa and the Amazon, and exceeding 10 ppbv in Southeast Asia and Siberia. This suggests that large biomass burning events could result in deleterious health effects for populations in these regions. For the tropospheric budget, using the model-calculated pH the HNCO lifetime was 37 days, with the split between dry deposition and heterogeneous loss being 95%:5%. Fixing the heterogeneous loss rate at pH = 7 meant that this process dominated, accounting for $70% of the total loss, giving a lifetime of 6 days, and resulting in upper tropospheric concentrations that were essentially zero. However, changing the pH does not notably impact the high concentrations found in biomass burning regions. More observational data is needed to evaluate the model, as well as a better representation of the likely underestimated biofuel emissions, which could mean more populations exposed to elevated HNCO concentrations.
[2] Isocyanic acid (HNCO) is a volatile, moderately acidic compound, and the simplest member of the isocyanate family. HNCO is toxic, and in vivo carbamylation reactions of proteins with its aqueous anion (cyanate, NCO -) have been implicated as the cause of several negative health effects [Wang et al., 2007] . Based on the physical properties of HNCO, Roberts et al. [2011] estimated that atmospheric HNCO concentrations exceeding 1 ppbv could lead to protein-damaging chemistry. The goal of this study is to use the chemistry transport model MOZART-4 (Model for Ozone and Related chemical Tracers-4) to estimate the first global distribution of HNCO and identify areas, and their environmental conditions, where elevated HNCO concentrations might exist.
Carbamylation constitutes a posttranslational modification of proteins or amino acids and results from different pathways in vivo. First is the non-enzymatic reaction between isocyanic acid, a decomposition product of urea, and either the N-terminus or ε-amino group of lysine residues. Isocyanic acid levels, while low in vivo, are in equilibrium with urea, and are thus increased in chronic and end-stage renal diseases. An alternative pathway involves the leukocyte haem protein myeloperoxidase, which catalyses the oxidation of thiocyanate in the presence of hydrogen peroxide, producing isocyanate at inflammation sites. Notably, plasma thiocyanate levels are increased in smokers, and leukocyte-driven protein carbamylation occurs both within human and animal atherosclerotic plaques, as well as on plasma proteins. Protein carbamylation is considered a hallmark of molecular aging and is implicated in many pathological conditions. Recently, it has been shown that carbamylated low-density lipoprotein (LDL) induces endothelial dysfunction via lectin-like-oxidized LDL receptor-1 activation and increased reactive oxygen species production, leading to endothelial nitric oxide synthase uncoupling. Moreover, carbamylated LDL harbours atherogenic activities, including both binding to macrophage scavenger receptors inducing cholesterol accumulation and foam cell formation, as well as promoting vascular smooth muscle proliferation. In contrast, high-density lipoprotein loses its anti-apoptotic activity after carbamylation, contributing to endothelial cell death. In addition to involvement in atherogenesis, protein carbamylation levels have emerged as a particularly strong predictor of both prevalent and incident cardiovascular disease risk. Recent studies also suggest that protein carbamylation may serve as a potential therapeutic target for the prevention of atherosclerotic heart disease.
PURPOSE: To remove free cyanogen in gas liquor nearly completely by adding polysulfide and/or a polysulfide-containing solution to the gas liquor discharged from coke factories. CONSTITUTION: For polysulfide or a polysulfide-containing solution, hydrogen oxide or gas containing hydrogen oxide is blown into a mixture solution of a desulfurized waste liqud and desulfurized sulfur from the process of wet desulfurization of coke furnace gas to produce poly sulfide, and this solution is added to gas liquor. Fixed thiocyanic acid, etc., is not decomposed in the next ammonia removing tratment and removed nearly completely by being treated with active sludge. In this treatment, the desulfurized sulfur and desulfurized waste liquid are used, so that the need for the conventional treatment of the both is eliminated. COPYRIGHT: (C)1982,JPO&Japio
Thermally induced gauche–trans isomerization and direct solute–solvent interactions of the solute, ethyl isocyanate (EIC), in the solvent, 2-methylpentane (2MP), are investigated using ultrafast infrared vibrational echo experiments and linear vibrational absorption spectroscopy of the isocyanate (N=C=O) antisymmetric stretching mode (2278 cm−1). Both the EIC vibrational echo measured pure vibrational dephasing and the absorption spectra show complex behavior as a function of temperature from room temperature to 8 K. The EIC data are compared to absorption experiments on the same mode of isocyanic acid (HNCO), which cannot undergo isomerization. To describe the observations, a model is presented that involves both intramolecular dynamics and intermolecular dynamical interactions. At room temperature, gauche–trans isomerization is very fast, and the isomerization dynamics contribution to the vibrational echo decay and the absorption line shape is small because it is motionally narrowed. The dominant contri...
Carbamoylation of amino acids and proteins in uremia. Cyanate spontaneously transformed from urea increases as renal function decreased. Acting as a potential toxin, the active form of cyanate, isocyanic acid, carbamoylates amino acids, proteins, and other molecules, changing their structure, charge, and function. The resulting in vivo carbamoylation can modify the molecular activity of enzymes, cofactors, hormones, low-density lipoproteins, antibodies, receptors, and transport proteins. Antibodies specific for e-amino-carbamoyl-lysine (homocitrulline) located carbamoylated proteins in situ in neutrophils, monocytes, and erythrocytes. Carbamoylated proteins were found in renal tissue from uremic patients but not in normal transplanted kidneys. The irreversible reaction with cyanate converts free amino acids (F-AAs) to carbamoyl-amino acids (C-AAs). The Carbamoylation Index (CI), C-AA/F-AA, quantifies the decrease of the F-AA pool for each essential amino acid. C-AAs contribute, in part, to malnutrition of uremia. C-AAs interfered with protein synthesis to lower 14 C hemoglobin synthesis in human reticulocytes and osteocalcin synthesis in rat osteosarcoma-derived tissue culture. Insulin-sensitive glucose uptake was decreased 33% in cultured rat adipocytes by α-amino-carbamoyl-asparagine. e-Amino carbamoylation occurs primarily in F-AA, while e-amino carbamoylation of lysine in protein occurs continuously during the protein life span. Protein catabolism releases e-amino-carbamoyl-lysine. Quantitation of α versus e carbamoylation may yield a more sensitive measurement of protein intake versus protein catabolism, and could be useful in decisions concerning the time to initiate dialysis or subsequent changes in dialysis prescription. Carbamoylated molecules can block, enhance, or be excluded from metabolic pathways, thereby influencing the fate of noncarbamoylated molecules. Although not an "all-or-none" phenomenon, urea-derived cyanate and its actions are contributing causes of toxicity in uremia.
SUMMARY ::: ::: 1 ::: The relation of this investigation to other problems connected with wood fumigation is indicated and previous work bearing on the subject is reviewed. ::: ::: 2 ::: The technique is described by which the toxicity of hydrocyanic acid gas to certain wood-feeding insects has been determined under standard conditions. ::: ::: 3 ::: Results of experiments with Lyctus sp. larvae at 20 and 25° C. and with Lyctus brunneus beetles and Anobium punctatum larvae at 25° C. are given and resistance curves for different concentrations and exposures drawn from them. ::: ::: 4 ::: The relative resistances and the toxicity relationships of the different insects are discussed. ::: ::: 5 ::: Experiments with Lyctus larvae at 20 anu 25° C. show that the insects are more susceptible to HCN at the higher temperature. ::: ::: 6 ::: At 25° C. Lyctus larvae are more susceptible to HCN than Lyctus beetles or Anobium larvae.
Abstract Various metals (gold, silver, brass, copper and bronze) were exposed to humid and dry hydrocyanic acid under controlled conditions. Formation of layers and deposits were studied by scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Layer formation was found to be strong with humid HCN and faint or negligible in dry HCN atmospheres. Some of the reaction products were identified by X-ray diffraction as metal cyanides. To reduce or prevent layer formation on metals during fumigation with HCN, the relative humidity inside rooms or buildings should be reduced prior to fumigation by drying agents or heaters.
This invention provides a new non-pollution technique to synthesize iminodiacetate by two-step hydrocyanic acid method. First, use formaldehyde solution to absorb the raw material hydrocyanic acid to synthesize hydroxylmethylcyanide aqueous solution; then enable hydroxylmethylcyanide conduct synthesizing reaction under the condition of ammonium and carbonic water system, which is hydrolyzed into salt under the condition of presenting sodium is hydroxide to obtain sodium aminoacetate solution; add hydroxylmethylcyanide solution to the sodium aminoacetate solution for addition reaction and add sodium hydroxide to hydrolyze into salt to obtain the iminodiacetate solution; purify the solution above to get pure iminodiacetate aqueous solution which can directly be used to produce the agricultural chemicals glyphosate. The solution can be dewatered and dried to obtain water-less solid product, and also can be acidified to obtain diglycolamidic acid crystal.
By the reaction of α-hydroxymethylene- and α-dimethylaminomethylene-2,3-polymethylene-3,4-dihydroquinazolin-4-ones with acid anhydrides and primary and secondary amines, the corresponding α-acyloxymethylene- and α-mono(di)-substituted aminomethylene-2,3-polymethylene-3,4-dihydroquinazolin-4-ones have been synthesized. The addition of hydrocyanic acid (from acetone cyanohydrin) to the double bond of the methylene group of the α-hydroxymethylene- and α-dimethylaminomethylene-2,3-trimethylene-3,4-dihydroquinazolin-4-ones has led to α-[cyano-(hydroxy)methyl1]- and α-[cyano(dimethylamino)methyl]-2,3-trimethylene-3,4-dihydroquinazolin-4-ones.
Radiation effects on the syrthesis of hydrocyanic acid from methane and ammonia, in the presence or absence of oxygen, on platinum catalysts were studied. Radiation was found to influence the reaction at high temperatures. (tr-auth)
UNLABELLED ::: Formamide is used as a softener for paper, gums, and animal glues; as an ionizing solvent; and in the manufacture of formic esters and hydrocyanic acid. Formamide was nominated for reproductive and genetic toxicity evaluation by the Environmental Defense Fund and for carcinogenicity evaluation by the National Cancer Institute because of the potential for human exposure associated with its widespread industrial use, the absence of data adequately characterizing its potential for reproductive and genetic toxicity, and the fact that acetamide, a compound structurally related to form-amide, is hepatocarcinogenic in rats when administered in feed. Male and female F344/N rats and B6C3F1 mice were administered formamide (approximately 100% pure) in deionized water by gavage for 2 weeks, 3 months, or 2 years. Genetic toxicology studies were conducted in Salmonella typhimurium and Escherichia coli, Drosophila melanogaster, and mouse peripheral blood erythrocytes. 3-MONTH STUDY IN RATS: Groups of 10 male and 10 female rats were administered 0, 10, 20, 40, 80, or 160 mg formamide/kg body weight in deionized water by gavage, 5 days per week for 14 weeks. Additional groups of 10 male and 10 female rats (clinical pathology study) and five male and five female rats (plasma concentration study) were administered the same doses, 5 days per week for up to 14 weeks. All core study rats survived to the end of the study. Mean body weights of females in the 40 mg/kg group and males and females in the 80 and 160 mg/kg groups were significantly less than those of the vehicle controls. On day 23 and at week 14, there was a dose-related increase in the erythron, evidenced by increases in hematocrit values, hemoglobin concentrations, and erythrocyte counts. The incidences of degeneration of the germinal epithelium of the testes and epididymis were significantly increased in 160 mg/kg males. 3-MONTH STUDY IN MICE: Groups of 10 male and 10 female mice were administered 0, 10, 20, 40, 80, or 160 mg formamide/kg body weight in deionized water by gavage, 5 days per week for 14 weeks. Additional groups of five male and five female mice (plasma concentration study) were administered the same doses, 5 days per week for 14 weeks. All mice survived to the end of the study. Final mean body weights of the 80 and 160 mg/kg males and mean body weight gains of 40, 80, and 160 mg/kg males were significantly less than those of the vehicle controls. Dosed females differed significantly from vehicle controls in the relative amount of time spent in the estrous stages. All 160 mg/kg males had abnormal residual bodies in the testes. 2-YEAR STUDY IN RATS: Groups of 50 male and 50 female rats were administered 0, 20, 40, or 80 mg formamide/kg body weight, 5 days per week for 104 to 105 weeks in deionized water by gavage. Survival of all dosed groups of rats was similar to that of the vehicle controls. Mean body weights of 80 mg/kg males were less than those of the vehicle controls throughout most of the study. Mean body weights of 40 and 80 mg/kg females were somewhat less than those of the vehicle controls during the second year of the study. A significant increase in the incidence of bone marrow hyperplasia occurred in 80 mg/kg males. No neoplasms were attributed to exposure to formamide. 2-YEAR STUDY IN MICE: Groups of 50 male and 50 female mice were administered 0, 20, 40, or 80 mg formamide/kg body weight, 5 days per week for 104 to 105 weeks in deionized water by gavage. Survival of all dosed groups of mice was similar to that of the vehicle controls. Mean body weights of 80 mg/kg males and females were generally less than those of the vehicle controls throughout the study; mean body weights of 40 mg/kg females were generally less after week 13 of the study. The incidences of hemangiosarcoma of the liver occurred with a positive trend in males, and the incidences were significantly increased in the 40 and 80 mg/kg groups. The incidence of hepatocellular adenoma or carcinoma (combined) in 80 mg/kg females was significantly increased. The incidences of mineralization of the testicular arteries and testicular tunic were significantly increased in 80 mg/kg males. The incidence of hematopoietic cell proliferation of the spleen was significantly increased in 80 mg/kg males. ::: ::: ::: GENETIC TOXICOLOGY ::: Formamide gave no evidence for mutagenicity in a series of short-term assays. In three independent Ames assays, formamide was not mutagenic in any of several strains of S. typhimurium tested with and without rat or hamster liver S9 activation enzymes or in E. coli strain WP uvrA pKM101 tested with and without 10% rat liver S9. Negative results were obtained in a test for induction of sex-linked recessive lethal mutations in germ cells of male D. melanogaster treated with formamide either by feeding or injection. Formamide did not induce increases in micronucleated erythrocytes in male or female mice treated by gavage for 3 months. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: Under the conditions of these 2-year gavage studies, there was no evidence of carcinogenic activity of form-amide in male or female F344/N rats administered 20, 40, or 80 mg/kg. There was clear evidence of carcinogenic activity of formamide in male B6C3F1 mice based on increased incidences of hemangiosarcoma of the liver. There was equivocal evidence of carcinogenic activity of formamide in female B6C3F1 mice based on increased incidences of hepatocellular adenoma or carcinoma (combined). An increased incidence of bone marrow hyperplasia occurred in male rats. Mineralization of the testicular arteries and tunic and hematopoietic cell proliferation of the spleen in male mice were also associated with administration of formamide.
Abstract The reactive urea-containing silane, (γ-diethylureidopropyl) allyloxyethoxysilane (DEUPAS), was synthesized by the trans-etherification reaction. The chemical structure was characterized by Fourier transform infrared spectrometry (FTIR) and 1 H nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometry ( 1 H NMR). Subsequently, DEUPAS was incorporated into addition-cure liquid silicone rubber (ALSR) via hydrosilylation reaction. The thermal stability of the ALSR samples was investigated by thermogravimetry (TG) and thermogravimetry–Fourier transform infrared spectrometry (TG–FTIR). When DEUPAS was incorporated, the temperature of 10% weight loss and 20% weight loss under air atmosphere were respectively increased by 31 °C and 60 °C compared with those of the ALSR without DEUPAS. Meanwhile, the residual weight at 800 °C increased from 33.5% to 58.7%. It was found that the striking enhancement in thermal stability of the ALSR samples was likely attributed to the decomposition of the urea groups to isocyanic acid, which reacted with hydroxyl groups to inhibit the unzipping depolymerization.
A straightforward and efficient synthetic route to a new class of glycosidase inhibitors containing an oxazole-2(3H)-thione moiety has been devised. The approach involves the formation of α-hydroxy ketones, which, after condensation with thiocyanic acid, leads to the formation of the heterocycle. By exploiting the ability of the nitrogen atom of oxazoline-2thione precursors to act as nucleophiles in intramolecular addition, castanospermine analogues could be readily prepared in good overall yields. Glycosidase inhibitory activity com
A theoretical study was carried out on the adsorption of hydrocyanic acid on small Aun (n ≤ 7) clusters using density functional methods. For HCN adsorption on gold clusters, no dependence was found with respect to the even-odd alternation in relation to the number of gold atoms in the cluster. The HCN molecule is adsorbed at simple adsorption sites (1-fold coordination), perpendicular to the adsorption site. The largest adsorption energy is only about 74.61 kJ·mol-1, which indicates that the HCN molecule does not decompose and the C–N bond retains triple bond, and that the C–H and C–N stretching frequencies are only weakly perturbed. The adsorbed C–N and C–H stretching frequencies are blue- and red-shifted compared with the values of free HCN, respectively.
The bifunctional title compounds2 react with acylating, carbamoylating and sulfonylating reagents mostly at the primary amino group of the hydrazine function. Both functional groups of2 are attacked by N,N′-carbonyldiimidazole converting it into 1H-1,2,4,5-tetrazepin-3-one derivatives8. The acid-induced 1,4-elimination of phenylhydrazine from2 gives rise to the formation of phenylosazones3. In the presence of thiocyanic acid the intermediately formed phenylazo-alkenes1 undergo [3+2]-cycloaddition furnishing 1-anilino-imidazoline-2-thiones13.
Fresh attieke contained 76.7% starch, 1.5% protein and 1.25 mg/100 g of hydrocyanic acid (HCN). The powder obtained as a by-product from drying had similar starch and protein contents but only 0.4 mg/100 ml of HCN, below the safe level, so it could be used in food products. Copyright © 2006 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
Abstract Fast kinetic spectrophotometry was used to study the absorption spectra of short-living intermediates produced by reactions of RCN molecules with H, e aq − and OH. The spectra were obtained on the microsecond time scale after an electron pulse from a Febetron 707 accelerator in aqueous solutions of the following compounds: hydrocyanic acid, acetonitrile, propionitrile, malononitrile and succinonitrile. It has been found that all intermediates absorb in the U.V. range ( λ ⩽300 nm) and disappear by fast bimolecular processes with decay rate constants of about 10 9 dm 3 mol −1 s −1 . In the presence of an efficient scavenger for hydroxyl radicals, the same transient spectra were registered in acid and neutral solutions suggesting that the protonations of e aq − adducts of these RCN molecules were complete within a submicrosecond time interval.
The kinetics of the autocatalytic oxidation of thiocynate by nitric and nitrous acids have been followed by the increase in nitrite concentration. The rate laws observed are v=k′3[H+][HNO2][NO3–] and v=k′4[H+]2[HNO2][NO3–][SCN–] at high and low concentrations of thiocyanate respectively. The mechanism postulated involves the formation of dinitrogen tetroxide, which oxidises isothiocyanic acid to hypothiocyanous acid, which is then converted to thiocyanogen. The end-products result from the hydrolysis of thiocyanogen, and its reaction with hydrogen cyanide.
Thermally induced gauche-trans isomerization and direct solute-solvent interactions of the solute, ethyl isocyanate ͑EIC͒, in the solvent, 2-methylpentane ͑2MP͒, are investigated using ultrafast infrared vibrational echo experiments and linear vibrational absorption spectroscopy of the isocyanate ͑NϭCϭO͒ antisymmetric stretching mode ͑2278 cm Ϫ1 ͒. Both the EIC vibrational echo measured pure vibrational dephasing and the absorption spectra show complex behavior as a function of temperature from room temperature to 8 K. The EIC data are compared to absorption experiments on the same mode of isocyanic acid ͑HNCO͒, which cannot undergo isomerization. To describe the observations, a model is presented that involves both intramolecular dynamics and intermolecular dynamical interactions. At room temperature, gauche-trans isomerization is very fast, and the isomerization dynamics contribution to the vibrational echo decay and the absorption line shape is small because it is motionally narrowed. The dominant contribution to both the vibrational echo decay and the absorption spectrum is from direct dynamical interactions of the solute with the solvent. As the temperature is lowered, the direct contribution to vibrational dephasing decreases rapidly, but the contribution from isomerization increases because the extent of motional narrowing diminishes. The combined effect is a very gradual decrease of the rate of pure dephasing as the temperature is initially lowered from room temperature. At very low temperature, below the 2MP glass transition, isomerization cannot occur. The absorption spectrum displays two peaks, interpreted as the distinct gauche and trans absorption bands. Even at 8 K, the pure dephasing is surprisingly fast. The direct solvent-induced dephasing is negligible. The dephasing is caused by motions of the ethyl group without isomerization occuring. At intermediate temperatures (150 K ϾTϾ100 K), isomerization takes place, but its contribution to the pure dephasing is not motionally narrowed. The absorption spectral shapes are complex. Dephasing arising from direct interaction with the solvent is small. Both isomerization and fluctuations on the gauche-trans surface contribute to the absorption line shape. The model that is used to describe the results involves a NMR type exchange calculation with additional contributions from the direct solvent interactions that are obtained from the temperature-dependent HNCO IR spectra. From the temperature dependence of the isomerization ''jump'' rate, the barrier height for the isomerization is found to be ϳ400 cm
Recent investigations, however, have brought to light some new facts with regard to the power of absorption of the stomach, the most striking of which is surely the unexpected result that the stomach does not absorb any water. Edkins t introduced into the stomach of cats, after the ligation of cardia and pylorus, a measured quantity of salt solution, and recovered after an hour exactly the same quantity again. Von Mering,~: who experimented on dogs with a duodenal fistula, found that a larger quantity of water came out through the fistula than the dogs had taken by the mouth. As my experiments have reference mainly to the absorption of strychnine and of hydrocyanic acid, I shall restrict my references to literature to those having direct bearing upon this subject. As far as I can ascertain, * Read at t h e E l e v e n t h A n n u a l Meeting of the Association of A m e r i c a n Physicians, April 30, 1896. J. S. Edkins, The A b s o r p t i o n of W a t e r in the A l i m e n t a r y Canal. Journal of Physiology, 1892, p. 460. Von M e t i n g , Ueber die F u n c t i o n e n des Magens. Therapeutisehe Monatslwfte, Mai, 1893. 35
Although the microwave spectrum of isocyanic acid, HNCO, has received much attention over the past forty years [1, 2] , there has been no report of the spectrum of the 170 isotopomer. Its spectrum should be of interest on two grounds. First, 170 is a quadru polar nucleus (I = 5/2), and the spectrum should show 1 O hyperfine structure, giving useful information about the electronic structure of the molecule. Se condly, HNCO is a known interstellar molecule [3] , and lvO is a known interstellar nucleus [4] , so that the microwave spectrum should assist any radioastronomical searches.
Cynodon dactylon commonly referred to as Arugampul, is a valuable medicinal plant and is used as a curative for various ailments. This medicinal herb has a renowned position in Indian Systems of Medicine (www.herbalcure.com). The medicinal plant Cynodon dactylon is traditionally being used in diabetes (Kirtikar and Basu 1980) , jaundice (Borah et al. 2006) , kidney problems (Cheryl 2006) , urinary diseases, GI disorders, constipation and abdominal pains (Paolo 2005) . It has been reported to possess antimicrobial (Premkumar and Shyamsundar 2004) , wound healing (Biswas and Mukherjee 2003) , antioxidant (Auddy et al. 2003) and antimutagenic activities. The constituents reported in this plant are cynodin, hydrocyanic acid, triticin, proteins (Kao et al. 2005) , carbohydrates, beta-carotene and minerals like calcium, phosphorus, iron and pottasium (George et al. 1997 ). The present investigation explores the hepatoprotective effect of the protein fraction of the Cynodon dactylon on CCl4, the hepatotoxin induced experimental animals.
Abstract The hypothesis that ammonia concentrations can be amplified by reaction with NO in excess CO to form isocyanic acid (HNCO) which is then hydrolysed back to NH3 has been tested. With 1000 ppm NO and 400 ppm NH3 in 3400 ppm CO, the HNCO produced in a dry feed over Pd/SiO2 and Pt/SiO2 is sufficient to allow potential multiplications of 1.9 and 2.2, respectively. With Pt/SiO2 a greater multiplication is possible if water is present since additional HNCO is formed using surface hydrogen generated by the water–gas shift reaction. Isocyanic acid is completely hydrolysed to NH3 if oxides more active than silica are located downstream, or used to support the platinum group metal, provided excess water is present. An actual amplification of six has been demonstrated starting from 150 ppm NH3 with CeO2/SiO2 downstream of Pt/SiO2. With Pt/Al2O3, 300 ppm NH3 can be multiplied by 3.6 in the temperature range 300–450 °C.
Due to the strong reactivity of CN - ions to form Cu-cyano complex ions and high stability of the ions in aqueous solutions, Cu contaminants on bare Si surfaces can be removed to less than ∼3 X 10 9 atoms/cm 2 by immersion in hydrocyanic acid (HCN) aqueous solutions, and cleaning can be performed with dilute (i.e., 0.027 - 0.0027 wt %) solutions at room temperature. Hydrofluoric acid plus hydrogen peroxide mixture can also completely remove Cu contaminants from the bare Si surfaces, but in this case, the Si surfaces become considerably rough due to etching. HCN solutions do not etch Si when pH is adjusted below 9, and consequently, the Si surface is not roughened at all. Cu contaminants are present on Si in the form of metallic islands and their size decreases with the HCN cleaning periods. Semi-log plots of the Cu concentration vs cleaning time consist of two linear lines for the initial fast and subsequent slow processes. The fast and slow processes are attributable to removal of Cu atoms bound to Cu atoms only and that of Cu atoms directly bound to Si, respectively. The rate constant for the fast and slow processes are determined to be 4.4 and 0.016/s, respectively.
Abstract. Condensed-phase uptake and reaction are important atmospheric removal ::: processes for reduced nitrogen species, isocyanic acid (HNCO), methyl ::: isocyanate ( CH3NCO ), and cyanogen halides (XCN, X = Cl, Br, I); ::: yet many of the fundamental quantities that govern this chemistry have not ::: been measured or are not well studied. These nitrogen species are of emerging ::: interest in the atmosphere as they have either biomass burning sources, i.e., ::: HNCO and CH3NCO , or, like the XCN species, have the potential to be ::: a significant condensed-phase source of NCO− and therefore HNCO. ::: Solubilities and the first-order reaction rate of these species were measured for ::: a variety of solutions using a bubble flow reactor method with total reactive ::: nitrogen ( Nr ) detection. The aqueous solubility of HNCO was ::: measured as a function of pH and had an intrinsic Henry's law solubility of ::: 20 ( ±2 ) M atm −1 and a Ka of ::: 2.0 ( ±0.3 ) × 10 −4 M ( pKa = 3.7±0.1 ) ::: at 298 K. The temperature dependence of HNCO solubility was very similar to ::: other small nitrogen-containing compounds, such as HCN, acetonitrile ::: ( CH3CN ), and nitromethane, and the dependence on salt concentration ::: exhibited the “salting out” phenomenon. The rate constant of reaction of ::: HNCO with 0.45 M NH 4 + , as NH4Cl , was measured at ::: pH = 3 and found to be 1.2 ( ±0.1 ) × 10 −3 M −1 s −1 , faster than the rate that ::: would be estimated from rate measurements at much higher pHs. The ::: solubilities of HNCO in the non-polar solvents n -octanol ::: ( n - C8H17OH ) and tridecane ( C13H28 ) were found to be ::: higher than aqueous solution for n -octanol ( 87±9 M atm −1 at ::: 298 K) and much lower than aqueous solution for tridecane ( 1.7±0.17 M atm −1 at 298 K), features that have implications for ::: multi-phase and membrane transport of HNCO. The first-order loss rate of HNCO ::: in n -octanol was determined to be relatively slow, 5.7 ( ±1.4 ) × 10 −5 s −1 . The aqueous solubility of ::: CH3NCO was found to be 1.3 ( ±0.13 ) M atm −1 independent ::: of pH, and CH3NCO solubility in n -octanol was also determined at ::: several temperatures and ranged from 4.0 ( ±0.5 ) M atm −1 at 298 K ::: to 2.8 ( ±0.3 ) M atm −1 at 310 K. The aqueous hydrolysis of ::: CH3NCO was observed to be slightly acid-catalyzed, in agreement ::: with literature values, and reactions with n -octanol ranged from 2.5 ( ±0.5 ) to 5.3 ( ±0.7 ) × 10 −3 s −1 from 298 to 310 K. ::: The aqueous solubilities of XCN, determined at room temperature and neutral ::: pH, were found to increase with halogen atom polarizability from 1.4 ( ±0.2 ) M atm −1 for ClCN and 8.2 ( ±0.8 ) M atm −1 for BrCN to ::: 270 ( ±54 ) M atm −1 for ICN. Hydrolysis rates, where measurable, ::: were in agreement with literature values. The atmospheric loss rates of HNCO, ::: CH3NCO , and XCN due to heterogeneous processes are estimated from ::: solubilities and reaction rates. Lifetimes of HNCO range from about 1 day ::: against deposition to neutral pH surfaces in the boundary layer, but ::: otherwise can be as long as several months in the middle troposphere. The loss ::: of CH3NCO due to aqueous-phase processes is estimated to be slower ::: than, or comparable to, the lifetime against OH reaction (3 months). The loss ::: of XCNs due to aqueous uptake is estimated to range from being quite slow, ::: with a lifetime of 2–6 months or more for ClCN and 1 week to 6 months for BrCN to 1 ::: to 10 days for ICN. These characteristic times are shorter than photolysis ::: lifetimes for ClCN and BrCN, implying that heterogeneous chemistry will be ::: the controlling factor in their atmospheric removal. In contrast, the ::: photolysis of ICN is estimated to be faster than heterogeneous loss for ::: average midlatitude conditions.
THE original purpose of this investigation2 was to determine the decomposition temperature of nitrocellulose X-ray films and the toxic gases evolved from decomposing nitrocellulose and cellulose acetate films. The analysis of the gases was limited in this work to the determination of their hydrocyanic acid content. The concentrations of the other toxic constituents, namely, carbon monoxide and the oxides of nitrogen from nitrocellulose films and carbon monoxide from cellulose acetate films, have been well established by other investigators. The base of a nitrocellulose X-ray film consists of a mixture of nitrocellulose and camphor similar to celluloid. The camphor imparts plasticity to the mixture. The base of the film is covered on both sides by a thin layer of gelatin impregnated with silver bromide. The explosiveness of nitrocellulose is in direct proportion to the degree of nitration of the cellulose. In films the nitrogen content of the nitrocellulose is about 11.7 per cent, whereas it is as high as ...
Abstract Investigation of the catalytic hydrolysis of isocyanic acid (HNCO) over TiO2 revealed that the rate of hydrolysis was considerably reduced in the presence of NO2 at temperatures below 200 °C. Transient low temperature investigations of the reaction, Temperature Programmed Desorption (TPD) experiments and Diffuse Reflectance Infrared Fourier Transform (DRIFT) investigations showed that part of the NO2 adsorbed strongly on the surface while part reacted with NH3 to form ammonium nitrate on the catalyst surface. Since at high temperatures NO2 was desorbed and NH4NO3 was decomposed, the catalytic activity was completely restored by thermal treatment at high temperature.
Octahedral configuration for the sulphur atoms is not very frequent. Examples are sulphur hexafluoride, sulphur monochloro pentafluoride and disulphur decafluoride. JANDER (1) from potentiometric titrations of sulphur trioxide against anhydrous hydrocyanic acid has postulated the existence of tribasic adducts with the proposed structure (HO)3S(CN)3 having octahedral configuration.
Abstract does not appear. First page follows. ::: Resistance to fumigation with hydrocyanic acid gas (HCN) in the red scale, Aonidiella aurantii (Mask.), was first noted in 1914; and resistance in black scale, Saissetia oleae (Bern.), in 1915 (Quayle, 1938).5 Sufficient experimental data have accumulated to establish definitely the existence ::: of two strains or races of red scale in the citrus areas of California: one race that ::: is susceptible and another that is tolerant to HCN fumigation. These two races have ::: been reared in the laboratory for the past seven years, under identical conditions ::: in separate insectproof rooms, through an average of nine generations per year, or ::: a total of some sixty generations; and they are still maintaining the original differential ::: in susceptibility to HCN. As (Dickson (1941)) demonstrated, this difference in susceptibility depends on a single gene or group ::: of closely linked genes in the X chromosome and therefore is sex-linked. The black ::: scale has been less studied, because of the difficulties involved in rearing it from ::: generation to generation; but, according to recent work by (Lindgren and Dickson (1943)), the resistant and the nonresistant black scale differ as much in their tolerance ::: to HCN as do the two races of red scale, or even more. ::: In an effort to determine the basis for the difference in the reaction of the resistant ::: and nonresistant races of scale insects to HCN fumigation, two lines of investigation ::: were followed in the present experiments. In the first, the fumigation experiments, ::: an attempt was made to evaluate separately the influence of HCN concentration and ::: of exposure on the mortality of the two races of red scale. In the second, the sorption ::: experiments, an attempt was made to correlate the mortality of fumigated resistant ::: and nonresistant races of both red and black scales with the amounts of HCN sorbed ::: (as measured by the amounts recovered); the effects of varied dosages, exposures, ::: and pre-treatments on sorption and mortality were studied. ::: Materials and Methods ::: In the experiments here reported, studies were made of resistant and nonresistant ::: mature adult female red scale, reared under controlled laboratory conditions, in insectproof ::: rooms. The variation in age of the insects was less than 24 hours, since the scale ::: crawlers were transferred to grapefruits from the stock cultures several times daily.
Use: in agriculture. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION: an improved process for the preparation of asymmetrically substituted ureas. Reagent 1: the gaseous mixture of isocyanic acid and ammonia obtained by thermal pyrolysis of urea. Reagent 2: a primary or secondary amine. The reaction conditions are: temperature 250-260 & amp; deg; C to 1 mole of isocyanic acid is used at least 1 equivalent of amine. Purpose: to simplify the process. 5 z.p.f-ly.
Guar meal (Cyamopsis tetragonoloba), a byproduct of guar gum industry is plentifully available (3.2 million quintals per annum) in northwestern parts of the country. Guar meal left after removal of gum i.e. the endosperm from both hull and germ of guar seed is potential alternative protein feed. Chemical composition of roasted guar meal was reported 50.27% protein, 5.32% ether extract, 6.24% crude fibre, 7.08% total ash, 1.28% acid insoluble ash, 31.09% NFE, 0.13% calcium and 0.30% phosphorus on dry matter basis. The pepsin digestibility in toasted guar meal was reported 84.82%. The crude protein contents of germ, hull and endosperm (gum) are 45, 35, 5–6% and they contribute 44, 21, 29–35% of the guar bean respectively. These fractions contain residual gum in different concentrations. Guar meal contains various anti nutritional factors which include gum 6–18%, saponins 9–14%, hydrocyanic acid 5–20 mg/100 gm and variable proportion of trypsin inhibitor, haemagglutinin and tannins. Despite of these deleterious effects GM is cheaper and a good source of essential amino acids. Guar gum is a highly viscous galactomannan polysaccharide. The residual guar gum is sticky in nature and reduces the nitrogen retention, energy utilization and fat absorption and thus depresses the growth and increases mortality in poultry. Toasting of guar meal reported to neutilize anti nutritional factors like trypsin inhibitor and urease activity. Enzyme supplementation (β-mannanase) and solid state fermentation are emerging techniques reported to reduce intestinal viscosity and counteracted deleterious effects associated with increased viscosity of the intestinal contents due to residual gum. Guar meal supplementation in diet is not only economical but also improved immune competence, gut health and significantly reduced serum cholesterol and glucose level. It is suggested that raw guar meal, toasted guar meal, fungal fermented guar meal and toasted guar meal with enzyme supplementation (beta mannanase or enzyme combination) can be supplemented in broiler and layer rations 2.5, 5.0, 7.5 and 10% inclusion level respectively as high protein feed without any adverse effect.
A polyazido compound, 1,3-di(azidoacetoxy)-2,2-di(azidomethyl)propane (PEAA) was synthesized and identified. Thermal properties of PEAA, such as the glass transition temperature (Tg), differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) and thermogravimetric analysis (DTG) were investigated in detail. Two steps in the course of thermal decomposition of PEAA were observed clearly, and some gases, carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, nitrogen, hydrocyanic acid, methane and 2-methyl-1,3-butadiene were identified as decomposition products by in situ cell FTIR. The pyrolysis mechanism was also proposed.
The reactions of NH(X3Σ−) with NO, O2, and O have been studied in reflected and incident shock wave experiments. The source of NH in all the experiments was the thermal dissociation of isocyanic acid, HNCO. Time-histories of the NH(X3Σ) and OH(X2Π) radicals were measured behind the shock waves using cw, narrow-linewidth laser absorption at 336 nm and 307 nm, respectively. The second-order rate coefficients of the reactions: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: were determined to be: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: and ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: cm3 mol−1 s−1, where ƒ and F define the lower and upper uncertainty limits, respectively. ::: ::: ::: ::: The branching fraction of channel ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: defined as k3b/k3total, was determined to be 0.19 ± 0.10 over the temperature range of 2940 K to 3040 K.
Abstract The oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutyronitrile was studied using an iron phosphate with a P/Fe atomic ratio of 1.2 as the catalyst. The main products were methacrylonitrile, acetone, and carbon oxides with a small amount of cyanic acid. The selectivities to methacrylonitrile were about 70 mol-% at an isobutyronitrile conversion of around 85% in the presence water vapor. On the other hand, in the absence of water vapor, the selectivity reached 80 mol-% and a marked amount of carbon deposit was observed, though the activity was relatively stable. The activity of a fresh catalyst consisting of only Fe3+ ions is low, but it increases with an increase in the time-on-stream up to about 10 h and then levels off with a further increase. It was also found that the selectivity to methacrylonitrile increases at the expense of a decrease in acetone, as the reaction temperature rises. The variations in the structures and valence states of iron ions due to the use in the reaction and their effects on the catalytic performances were also studied.
The solvent-free sampler for airborne isocyanates consisted of a polypropylene tube with an inner wall coated with a glass fibre filter, coupled in series with a 13 mm glass fibre filter. The filters were impregnated with reagent solution containing equimolar amounts of di-n-butylamine (DBA) and acetic acid. Air sampling was performed with an air flow of 0.2 l min(-1). The formed isocyanate-DBA derivatives were determined using liquid chromatography and tandem mass spectrometry. The sampler was investigated in regard to collection principle and extraction of the formed derivatives with good results. The possibility to store the sampler before sampling and to perform long-term sampling was demonstrated. Field extraction of the sampler was not necessary, as there was no difference between immediately extracted samples and stored ones (2 days). In comparative studies, the sampler was evaluated against a reference method, impinger-filter sampling with DBA as reagent. The ratios between the results obtained with the sampler and the reference in a test chamber at a relative humidity (RH) of 45% was in the range of 83-109% for isocyanates formed during thermal decomposition of PUR. At RH 95%, the range was 72-101% with the exception of isocyanic acid. In two field evaluations, the ratios for fast curing 2,4'- and 4,4'-methylene bisphenyl diisocyanate (MDI) was in the range 81-113% and for the 3-ring MDI the range was 54-70%. For the slower curing 1,6-hexamethylene diisocyanate (HDI) and HDI isocyanurate, the ratios were in the range 78-145%. In conclusion, the solvent-free sampler is a convenient alternative in most applications to the more cumbersome impinger-filter sampler.
Abstract A new synthesis of isoindolinones was discovered during a screening campaign aimed at the development of novel methods for the synthesis of pyridone-EZH2 inhibitor analogues. The reaction proceeds via an intramolecular [4+2] cycloaddition of a pyridone with a tethered propiolamide moiety followed by extrusion of isocyanic acid. The discovery, optimization, and scope of the methodology are described.
Kinetic isotope effects at the amide nitrogen of carbamyl phosphate were measured to determine whether catalysis by aspartate transcarbamylase proceeds through a cyanic acid or tetrabedral intermediate. Decomposition of the mono- and dianion of carbamyl phosphate was used as models for reaction of carbamyl phosphate proceeding through a tetrahedral adduct or cyanic acid intermediate, respectively. The 15 N kinetic isotope effects for decomposition of the mono- (1.0028) and dianion (1.0105) of carbamyl phosphate were sufficiently different to permit a distinction to be made between a cyanic acid intermediate or tetrahedral adduct
HI 6 has been shown to be efficacious in soman intoxication of laboratory animals by reactivation of acetylcholinesterase. To assess possible risks involved in the administration of HI 6 its degradation products were analyzed at pH 2.0, 4.0, 7.4, and 9.0. At pH 2.0, where HI 6 in aqueous solution has its maximal stability, attack on the aminal-acetal bond of the "ether bridge" predominates, with formation of formaldehyde, isonicotinamide, and pyridine-2-aldoxime. Besides, HI 6 decomposes at the oxime group yielding 2-cyanopyridine. Liberation of hydrocyanic acid at pH 2.0 is below 5%. At pH 7.4, primary attack is on the oxime group, resulting in formation of the corresponding pyridone via an intermediate nitrile. The pyridone has been isolated and identified as 2-pyridinone, 1-[(4-carbamoylpyridinio)methoxy)methyl)formate. This major metabolite deaminates further to the 2-pyridinone, 1-[(4-carboxypyridinio)methoxy)methyl) derivative, which ultimately decomposes into formaldehyde, isonicotinic acid, and 2-pyridone. Hydrolysis of the acid amide group probably also occurs with HI 6 itself. Significant amounts of free hydrocyanic acid were only detected in the presence of an alkali trap; otherwise hydrocyanic acid reacts with formaldehyde to yield hydroxyacetonitrile from which hydrocyanic acid can be liberated again. Up to 0.6 equivalents of hydrocyanic acid were evolved at pH 7.4. After repetitive administration and impaired renal elimination of HI 6, e.g. during renal shock, there might be some risk of cyanide intoxication.
Four organosulfur compounds from garlic and onions were examined for modifying effects on diethylnitrosamine (DEN)-induced neoplasia of the liver in male F344 rats using the medium-term bioassay system based on the two-step model of hepatocarcinogenesis. Carcinogenic potential was scored by comparing the numbers and areas per cm2 of induced glutathlone S-transfcrasc placental form-positive foci. Isothiocyanic acid isobutyl ester (IAIE), dipropyl trisulfide (DPT), and allyl mercapton (AM) exerted enhancing effects on their development, while dimethyl trisulfide also tended to increase them. To investigate possible mechanisms of the modifying influence, sequential changes in ornithine decarboxylase activity (ODC) over 24 h were measured in AM-treated liver tissue without prior DEN initiation. The activity started to increase by 4 h after AM-treatment, and reached maximum at 16 h, compared to controls. Spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase activity was not significantly changed. An increase in proliferating cell nuclear antigen-positive cells followed the elevation of ODC activity. These results suggest that IAIE, DPT, and AM promote rat hepatocarcinogenesis and their promoting effect might be caused by increased cell proliferation with increased poly-amine biosynthesis. In evaluating relationships between diet and cancer, it is thus appropriate to consider not only a possible protective role of garlic and onions, but also enhancing effects.
If automotive manufacturers are to meet future emission standards, reducing cold start emissions is imperative. This is particularly true for lean burn engines, for which the mitigation of NO x emissions is especially challenging. Current technology for NO x mitigation in lean burn systems is based on the use of Lean NO x Trap (LNT) and Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) catalysts that display limited activity below 200°C. Moreover, in the case of urea-SCR, the slow rate of urea decomposition limits the ability to deploy this technology at low operating temperatures. Urea decomposition occurs in two steps [1, 2] : in the first, the urea releases one equivalent of NH 3 and one equivalent of isocyanic acid (HNCO); the latter is then hydrolyzed to NH 3 and CO 2 . However, at low temperatures deposits can accumulate on the catalyst, in the form of undecomposed urea, or compounds (such as melamine complexes) which result from side reactions of the HNCO [3] . Given that the accumulation of these compounds can poison the SCR catalyst at low temperatures, in practice urea injection is typically ramped in the temperature range *150-200°C, i.e., sub-stoichiometric amounts of urea are injected (to minimize catalyst poisoning at the expense of unconverted NO x ), stoichiometric urea injection beginning at ca. 200°C [4] . This, in turn, limits the achievable NO x conversion.
To account for the 'special properties' of life-e.g. movement, metabolism, reproduction, development-the prevailing wisdom from the time of Aristotle into the nineteenth century was that organic matter differed in some fundamental way from inorganic matter. While this notion, called vitalism, may seem quaint to twenty-first century scientists, it held sway until the chemist Friedrich Wöhler showed that, unexpectedly, a known organic compound, urea, could be artificially synthesized from cyanic acid and ammonia [1] . This fabrication process, while different from that used in biological systems, nonetheless served as an important clue that the divide between living and non-living matter was not absolute. Abiotic processes could make substances theretofore only encountered in biologically derived materials. Additionally, we see that-and not for the last time-results obtained from one discipline, chemistry, have had important consequences in another, biology. This confluence of diverse avenues of enquiry coalescing into an ever larger conceptual picture of Nature is, of course, an oft-repeated theme in the sciences. Other famous examples include Newton's discovery that the motion of celestial bodies, such as the moon and planets, and that of terrestrial ones under the influence of gravity, such as the proverbial apple, are both manifestations of a universal law of gravitational attraction; James Clerk Maxwell's unification of electricity and magnetism into his famous equations; and James Prescott Joule's demonstration that the caloric was nothing but energy by another name, now formalized in the First Law of Thermodynamics. Indeed, E. O. Wilson takes the extreme position that all human knowledge, from the most concrete of the sciences to the least precise of the liberal arts, is ultimately interlinked [2] .
The parent compound, fulminic acid, is known to be comparable in toxicity to hydrocyanic acid,1 but no data seem to be reported on the physiological effects of the lower aliphatic nitrile oxides. Their instability makes it unlikely that they would ever reach the site of biological action before being completely dimerized to furoxans.
Alkali-metal thiocyanates are hydrated in strongly acid solutions to an intermediate that breaks down slowly to ammonium ion and carbonyl sulphide. Different intermediates are formed at high and low mineral acid concentrations; the low-acidity species is suggested to be protonated thiocarbamic acid. The rate of disappearance of thiocyanate follows the rate law v=k[HNCS]h0aH2O, and is a maximum in 70% sulphuric acid. Kinetic, spectrophotometric, and partition measurements suggest that isothiocyanic acid acts as a base and is fully protonated in 85% sulphuric acid.
The liberation of hydrocyanic acid by intact not damaged living insects is described as “active cyanogenesis”. This phenomenon - as in contrast to “passive cyanogenesis” observed in plants, where enzyme and substrate get in contact only after tissue damage - is reported from the Zygaenidae. Quantitative data demonstrate that the Zygaenidae can increase the amount of emitted HCN upon irritation. The significance of this phenomenon as a mean of defense is discussed.
Experiments in the fumigation of cigars with hydrocyanic acid gas for the destruction of the tobacco beetle ( Lasioderma serricorne Fab.) show that, under the conditions of these experiments, fumigation with sustained vacuum was more effective than fumigation with dissipated vacuum.
The research work is on physical, photochemical and chemical quality of traditionally processed cassava ball and chunks, lending credence to home use, small scale or medium enterprise/factories on the potential of the chunk and balls in the market .The quality characteristics of cassava flour from the meal of retted dried balls and chunks from randomized sampling had their physical, Physio-chemical and chemical characteristics analyzed using standard methods. Physical properties of flour had (2.50-11.25) g/g water binding capacity, (2.15-18.0) w/v gelation capacity and (25.75-45.35) viscosity. Physio-chemical properties of flour had titratable acidity (0.011-0.125), (4.07-4.99) pH and (1.85-8.75) mg/100g hydrocyanic acid content of the meal of retted balls flour which agreed with the standard. Chemical properties had (1.05-1.53) % crude protein, (3.75-7.0) % ash and (2.87-3.78) % crude fiber. The (79.3883.1) carbohydrate and (324.49-345.0) energy value from dried chunks flour were high and compared favorably with the standard.
An unusual homogeneous chemical reaction of a direct cyanation of ferricenium salts by hydrocyanic acid is analyzed on the basis of an electrochemical approach and the notions of the chemistry of coordination compounds about an inner-sphere electron transfer. The complexing between a ferricenium cation and cyanide anion is confirmed experimentally using a potentiometric titration of aqueous solutions of ferricenium tetrafluoroborate by hydrocyanic acid. Variations of the mechanism of a rebound substitution of the CN group in the cyclopentadienyl ring for the hydrogen atom are considered. The mechanism is based on the notion about an inner-sphere redox reaction between the Fe(III) atom of a ferricenium cation and the CN- anion. The magnitude and sign of the difference between standard potentials of systems [(C5H5)2M)]+/(C5H5)2M and CN+/CN- are found to represent a thermodynamic criterion indicating whether cations of metallocenes [(C5H5)2M]+ may be directly cyanated by hydrocyanic acid.
A simple, rapid method was developed for the determination of in vitro alveolar macrophage viability after exposure to gases. Air pollutants such as ozone, sulfur dioxide, and oxides of nitrogen killed alveolar macrophages, as determined by the dye exclusion test. Ozone (O3) was effective at very low concentrations. Other gases such as carbon dioxide (CO2), carbon monoxide (CO), methane (CH4), methyl chloride (CH3Cl), acrolein, acetaldehyde, acetone, isoprene, benzene, and hydrocyanic acid (HCN) had no effect on cell viability.
Abstract Battelle conducted a 1991 research study for CORDNET, a consortium of Canadian organizations, to address separation, disposal and/or utilization of carbon dioxide. This paper concerns only the utilization aspects. Although the carbon dioxide problem is a global one, the utilization opportunities are based solidly on local resources and conditions. Our investigation led to suggestions for specific opportunities in the pulp and paper industry and polymers, among other possibilities. Opportunities to utilize precipitated calcium carbonate in alkaline-sized paper products and other materials, partly displacing expensive titanium dioxide appear to be attractive. The challenge is to make this process a net remover of carbon dioxide from the global system through use of local brines. Urea and isocyanic acid that are prepared from carbon dioxide may displace hazardous and corrosive phosgene used in manufacture of polycarbonates, urethanes, and advanced materials. The benefits of carbon dioxide utilization arise primarily from the profits and the lessons learned about the properties and potential of carbon dioxide. The amount thus sequestered is likely to be small compared with the magnitue of the CO 2 problem.
Polyfunctional aminophenols or amino(alkyl)phenols are converted with cyano halide in the presence of a base at temperatures below 65 DEG C into the corresponding aromatic cyanic acid esters containing cyanamide groups and thereafter at 65 DEG C to 150 DEG C into prepolymers which are soluble in organic solvents and highly stable in storage. The prepolymers may be converted into high molecular weight polymers of triazine structure by heating to 150 DEG C to 350 DEG C. The end products are insoluble in solvents and are infusible. The prepolymers may be used for the production coatings, shaped articles or laminates.
The invention provides a simple and convenient method for producing high-purity ortho-formate by using acrylonitrile byproduct hydrocyanic acid. The method comprises the following steps: firstly producing amine salt from the acrylonitrile byproduct hydrocyanic acid, fatty alcohol and hydrogen chloride, subsequently performing alcoholysis reaction on the presence of corresponding fatty alcohol so as to obtain an ortho-formate reaction liquid, adding a proper amount of an alkali substance in the generated ortho-formate reaction liquid, decomposing nitrogenous impurity compounds such as byproduct 1,3,5-s-triazine at certain temperature, wherein the decomposed product is nitrogen and solid formate with low boiling point, performing aftertreatment on the reaction liquid so as to obtain the high-purity ortho-formate through normal distillation. Therefore, the purpose of producing the high-purity ortho-formate with high yield is achieved.
NEW MATERIAL: 2-Aza-4-(methoxycarbonyl)spiro[4.5]decan-3-one. USE: A starting material for the production of an antispasmodic Gabapentin, namely 1-(aminomethyl)cyclohexaneacetic acid. PREPARATION: An alkyl cyclohexylidenemalonate of formula II is reacted with cyanic acid in the presence of a catalytic amount of an alkali cyanide or reacted with a stoichiometric amount of an alkali cyanide in an alcohol, and the product is treated with an acid to form a novel dialkyl (1-cyanocyclohexyl)malonate of formula III. This compound is catalytically hydrogenated to obtain a 2- aza-4-(alkoxycarbonyl)spiro[4.5]decan-3-one of formula I. COPYRIGHT: (C)1990,JPO
The papaya seed oil(PSO) was extracted by steam distillation in this paper. Then the total antioxidant capacity, hydroxyl free radicals and DPPH free radicals scavenging of the PSO were determined. Finally, the chemical composition was analyzed using GC-MS. Results indicate that the Optimal distillation time and solid-liquid ratio and soaking time is 2.5 h, 1/8 and 1 h, respectively.Compare to the synthetic antioxidant, the total antioxidant capacity of the PSO was lower. However, the hydroxyl free radicals and DPPH free radicals scavenging of the PSO reach to 100% and 70% above while the concentration of the PSO was 5×10-5mg/mL and 8 mg/mL, respectively. The chemical composition of the PSO is mainly Benzaldehyde, Benzeneacetaldehyde, Benzyl nitrile and Isothiocyanic acid-benzyl ester,98.28% of which is Benzyl nitrile and Isothiocyanic acid. This results show that the method can obtain high purity isothiocyanate benzyl ester, in order to provide a theoretical basis for the industrial production isothiocyanate benzyl ester.
Abstract The formation of isocyanic acid (HNCO) by reaction of NO and CO with sources of hydrogen has been investigated along with its subsequent hydrolysis on oxides. High HNCO yields are possible with H2 itself using Pt/SiO2 and Pd/SiO2 with Rh/SiO2 less effective. The H2 forms NH3 and H2O initially but they are recycled to HNCO as the temperature is increased. The NH3+NO+CO reaction is equally as effective as a generator of HNCO. Oxides other than silica catalyse complete hydrolysis of HNCO to NH3 and CO2. The combination of HNCO formation from NH3 and subsequent hydrolysis back to NH3 allows the amplification of ammonia by a factor of 3 when using a combination of Pd/SiO2 followed by CeO2–SiO2. Multiplication by 6 is possible with Pt/SiO2 ahead of CeO2–SiO2 since additional HNCO is generated on Pt by the reaction of NO and CO with surface hydrogen derived through the water-gas shift reaction. The reaction of a H2O/NO/CO mixture over a Pt/Al2O3 catalyst forms NH3 with >80% yield in this way.
Abstract The first metal complexes employing isoperthiocyanic acid (L) as a ligand, namely MCl 2 (L) 2 (M = Pd(II) and Pt(II)) and CuCl(L) 2 , have been prepared and characterized. Infrared spectroscopic results suggest that the palladium and platinum complexes possess a cis -square planar geometry whereas the copper(I) complex is a chlorine-bridged tetrahedral species. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopic results indicate that isoperthiocyanic acid acts as a monodentate ligand in these complexes utilizing the exocyclic thione sulphur atom. Similarities between the S 2p binding energy spectra of this ligand and 1,2-dithiole-3-thione derivatives are noted.
An unidentified psychrophilic basidiomycete used valine and isoleucine as precursors to hydrocyanic acid (HCN). As probable intermediates in the pathway from valine and isoleucine two cyanogenic glucosides, linamarin and lotaustralin, were demonstrated in fungus cultures. The fungus contained two beta-glucosidases and an oxynitrilase which, acting together, were capable of releasing cyanide from both linamarin and lotaustralin. The two beta-glucosidases were purified and compared as to pH optimum, Michaelis constant, energy of activation, thermal stability, and substrate specificity. The products of methyl ethyl ketone cyanohydrin and acetone cyanohydrin dissociation by the oxynitrilase were demonstrated to be HCN together with methyl ethyl ketone and acetone, respectively. The oxynitrilase attacked aliphatic hydroxynitriles, but showed no activity on aromatic hydroxynitriles.
Background: Despite rich source of protein and oil, wild (bitter) apricot (Prunus armeniaca L.) kernel is rarely exploited by food industries due to high amount of antinutrients and potentially toxic amygdalin. This study was aimed to assess the effect of detoxification on the biological quality of the wild apricot kernel (WAK)-supplemented diet in male Wistar albino rats.; Results: In order to detoxify, WAK flour was soaked in 25% sodium chloride solution for 24 h followed by washing and drying. Results revealed that detoxification significantly (P < 0.05) improved the nutritional quality by reducing the content of antinutrients (tannins, flavonoids, trypsin inhibitor, saponins, oxalates, phytates and hydrocyanic acid) from raw WAK. When compared with the raw kernel group, the detoxified WAK group exhibited significantly (P < 0.05) higher values for growth performance parameters - namely feed consumed (169.14 ± 3.40 versus 152.14 ± 1.59 g), protein consumed (16.91 ± 0.63 versus 15.21 ± 0.68 g), weight gain (64.77 ± 2.59 versus 48.74 ± 0.62 g), protein efficiency ratio (3.83 ± 0.33 versus 3.20 ± 0.36), feed efficiency ratio (0.38 ± 0.017 vs 0.32 ± 0.02), biological value (73.62 ± 4.53 versus 65.26 ± 4.60%), apparent protein digestibility (78.55 ± 1.37 versus 70.35 ± 2.66%), true protein digestibility and net protein utilization, suggesting a prominent effect of detoxification in order to improve the biological quality of the WAK.; Conclusion: Detoxification improved the biological quality of the WAK-supplemented diet. Hence, detoxified kernel flour could be utilized as an economic and quality source of protein and oil for the supplementation of value-added food products. © 2018 Society of Chemical Industry.; © 2018 Society of Chemical Industry.
Sir, ::: ::: We appreciate Dr De's comments on our correspondence published in December 20121. We agree that there would be recall bias on using memory-dependent exposure surrogates such as duration of exposure, use of protective measures, and activity at that time more than two decades after the disaster. However, distance of residence is an objective datum which is easily verified and was shown to be correlated with the objective measure of lung function2. Dr De states that the FEF25-75% is a variable parameter to assess small airway function1. While this parameter is more variable than FEV1 and FVC in individual clinical testing, epidemiological research deals in aggregate data, so we believe that such a finding needs to be explored, particularly when other studies have demonstrated associations with this parameter2. Animal and human studies have shown that methyl isocyanate, being moderately soluble in water, is toxic throughout the lung to the upper large airways as well as the lower mid to small airways3. ::: ::: Dr De found no difference in prevalence of lung function abnormalities among patients assigned to the satellite health centers of Bhopal Memorial Hospital which he used as a surrogate for distance of residence1,3. While the satellite health clinics were originally supposed to serve gas-affected victims who live nearby, it is our understanding that this has not necessarily been the case. In a recent conversation with a leader of the victim's organization, we were told that the original aim of registering and serving nearby residents was never implemented to the intended extent4 (Bhopal Gas Peedith Mahila Udyog, Sanghatana, personal communication, March 2012). The clinics do not necessarily register residents in the area, with the result that any local resident can attend any of the clinics. The Hospital is apparently no longer dedicated only for Carbide victims but provides care for any Bhopal resident who seeks it. This variability of patient registration precludes the use of satellite health clinics as a surrogate exposure marker in the assessment of differences in lung function. ::: ::: Dr De also suggests that a community-based study will be required to determine the true association of MIC and lung function abnormalities. Twenty eight years after the disaster, there will have been significant migration into and out of the area such that many of the exposed victims will no longer be present in the area and a viable community-based study will not be possible. ::: ::: As long-term observers, investigators, and former members of the International Medical Commission on Bhopal, we would like to take the opportunity to highlight some aspects of post-disaster epidemiology which, in our opinion, have served as obstacles to the conduct of scientific and valid epidemiological investigation: ::: ::: The original cohort registered by the Indian Council of Medical research (ICMR) was chosen on the basis of health effects rather than any true measure of gas exposure. Instead, the cohort of 96,000 individuals was selected based on severe, moderate, and mildly affected areas based on death rates5. Prior versions of the technical report characterized the area as ‘affected’ but later versions contained confusing and contradictory terms such as ‘exposed and affected’, ‘exposed but unaffected’ and the term ‘affected’ was used interchangeably with ‘exposed’. In epidemiological studies, it is well known that not all subjects in an exposed area are affected. As early as in 1987, a dispersion model was available which delineated the exposed areas but was never used6. ::: ::: The selected cohort ratio was heavily skewed toward the severely affected area (75%) and such a selection would have introduced bias in the results and an incomplete understanding of the health effects in the population. The non-random cluster of deaths sample selection approach instead of randomized selection using a sampling frame had the potential for interviewer bias due to prior knowledge of potential health effects. Persons migrating out were excluded rather than treated as lost to follow up thereby shrinking the sample size available for analysis. ::: ::: Operational problems with such a large cohort included inadequate staffing and equipment - only 20 research assistants were available for monitoring the 96,000 person cohort5 and we estimate that one research assistants would have had the herculean task of interviewing 40 families daily7. ::: ::: The six monthly morbidity and mortality prevalence data have not been consistently published since the cohort was formed. There may be some internal reports but these are not available to the wider scientific community or even the general public. Timely publication of epidemiological data is vital to understanding the spectrum of gas-related disease and provision of health services. ICMR's comprehensive reports appeared late thereby limiting their utility in health planning. ::: ::: We are aware that the Bhopal medical community was faced with (i) the urgent health care needs of the affected community, (ii) the non-availability of toxicological and accident-related information, (iii) the extreme sensitivity of local and national government bodies toward all aspects of the disaster, (iv) lack of expertise, and (v) the lack of funds available to independent researchers to conduct investigations. Faced with lawsuits and the prospect of bankruptcy, Union Carbide's efforts to keep open channels of communication were highly inadequate to address these issues. In addition, the transnational political and legal ramifications served to throw a veil of secrecy around the disaster, thus impeding the discovery of essential pieces of information. Medical, toxicological, and accident-analysis data were not made public, thereby frustrating the efforts of the medical community to understand the linkage between exposures and health effects and devise appropriate treatment strategies. As an example, the lack of information about whether MIC could thermally decompose to hydrocyanic acid led to years of contentious debate on the merits of treating the gas victims for cyanide poisoning8 and an unfortunate violation of patient confidentiality9. ::: ::: Koplan et al10 indicated that post-disaster epidemiologic studies should accurately estimate exposure to enable correct dose-response relationship modelling. These data are needed for identifying ill and exposed persons, determining long-term effects, and linking exposure and effects for use in litigation and to determine compensation. In the absence of the above modelling, studies on Bhopal victims will suffer from the limitation that the link between exposure and health effects cannot be easily made. For various reasons, Bhopal clinical and epidemiological studies have had relatively small sample sizes, thus limiting the ability to infer exposure-response relationships. Dr De's study has the largest number of subjects we have seen and, therefore, is particularly important to reanalyze this dataset to search for definitive exposure-response. We respectfully offer the above critique in an effort to better understand the suffering of the Bhopal gas victims as well as to offer a roadmap for investigation and prevention of future disasters.
Abstract The selective catalytic reduction by hydrocarbons (HC-SCR) has shown relevant efficiencies in reducing the NO X from the automobiles waste gases, thus emerging as a suitable alternative to urea as a reducing agent. Previous studies by Wang et al. showed that acetylene (C 2 H 2 ) has a high activity at low temperatures and a satisfactory intracrystalline diffusion over zeolites. The present work investigates C 2 H 2 as a reducing agent under NO, NO 2 conditions and a mixture of NO and NO 2 . Ferrierite zeolites loaded with iron and cobalt ions were evaluated as catalysts by InfraRed (IR) operando and in-situ techniques. This latter technique allowed a clear identification of the vibration bands of the species formed on the surface in reaction conditions. Two different sites for the localization of cations in the Ferrierite were identified from the NO experiment, with only one common to both cations. Regarding C 2 H 2 , its interaction with both Lewis and Bronsted sites could be identified. Thanks to the IR operando methodology, it was possible to identify hydrocyanic acid as a relevant intermediate species for the SCR of NO X by C 2 H 2 over Co-HFER. Moreover, the NO oxidation to NO 2 was found to be a determining step for the SCR reaction when using the Co loaded catalyst.
The liberation of hydrocyanic acid by intact not damaged living insects is described as "active cyanogenesis". This phenomenon -as in contrast to "passive cyanogenesis" observed in plants, where enzyme and substrate get in contact only after tissue damage -is reported from the Zygaenidae. Quantitative data demonstrate that the Zygaenidae can increase the amount of emitted HCN upon irritation. The significance of this phenomenon as a mean of defense is discussed.
As defined by Conn 1981 [1] the term cyano genesis denotes the ability of living organisms to pro duce hydrocyanic acid. It is a common phenomenon in bacteria, fungi, algae, plants and animals [2] , In plants cyanogenesis occurs when the cyanogenic tis sues are crushed and the respective cyanogenic com pounds (glucosides, lipides or alkaloids) come into contact with the HCN-liberating enzymes. Thus, substrate and enzyme are restricted to certain com partm ents, usually in different tissue layers or in dif ferent cellular organelles. In animals few cases have been described of arthropods, certain Myriapoda [3] and a Chrysomelid species [4] actively liberating hydrocyanic acid. However, in Myriapoda [5, 6] , ahydroxynitrile-lyase is stored in the cells of a specialized reaction chamber as in plants [3, 7, 8] . Access of the cyanogenic nitrile to the reaction cham ber is controlled through a specialized muscle attached to the connecting tube. The defensive secre tion of the larvae of the chrysomelid Paropsis atom aria releases HCN [4] , The sources of cyanide are the unstable mandelonitrile and prunasin [9] , The release of H CN may be due to hydrolysis.
In the L epidoptera, amongst a few other taxa, Zygaenid moths are well known for their cyanogenic properties [10] : release of hydrocyanic acid occurs when their tissues are crushed. The sources of cy anide are the cyanoglycosides linamarin and lotaus- tralin [11] , which are stored in the haemolymph and in specialized cuticular cavities [12] , There are high hydrocyanic acid liberating enzyme-activities in the haemolymph of the Zygaenid moths [13] and they also have high detoxification capacities for hydro cyanic acid: cyanide is transferred into ß-cyano-Lalanine, which seems to be widely distributed within the Lepidoptera [14] . Zygaena larvae produce a cyanogenic defensive secretion which is stored in regularily arranged cuticular cavities. The latter possess highly specialized opening mechanisms which are used to release the defensive secretion when the larvae are irritated or mechanically stimulated [12] ,
Fodder plants and crop residues of field, grass and pastures are mainly forage sources for ruminants. However, forage insufficiency is a very important problem in ruminant nutrition. Consequently, some of the shrubs, thorny plants and tree leaves can be used as alternative forages, especially in the wintertime [1] [2] [3] . It is believed that guar bean (Cluster bean = Cyamopsis tetragonoloba) will contribute to closing the forage gap [4] . Forage needs of ruminants are provided for by drying or ensiling hay in winter. Guar bean is an annual legume. It is a multipurpose plant and widely cultivated in semi-arid regions such as India and Pakistan. Guar has great potential and because of its low water requirements, it could be an excellent alternative for some forages such as alfalfa [5] . It is an important plant because of the galactomannan gum contained in its structure. Guar bean has the potential to be forage for ruminants because it is rich in leaves and protein, has a high yield and is harvested 3-4 months after planting [6, 7] . However, due to the presence of hydrocyanic acid (HCN) in its fresh state, its consumption by animals is negatively affected. HCN is mostly found in young seeds and rarely found in mature seeds. Some phenolic compounds are present in the guar bean seeds [8] and for this reason, it is recommended to use guar bean silage (GS) in ruminant nutrition. Fresh guar beans has shown very good nutritional composition (CP: 3.54%, EE: 0.64%, NFE: 11.86%, NDF: 11.69% for dry matter 25.5%) [4] . It is reported that guar forage is unpalatable and not suitable for grazing but sometimes it can be used to reduce the risk of bloat in grazing ruminants [9, 10] .
The selective catalytic reduction (SCR) with urea (in aqueous solutions) is currently seen having the highest potential to meet the stricter NO x and particulate emission limits for commercial vehicles. The formation of ammonia from urea consists of two consecutive reactions, with isocyanic acid as intermediate that is hydrolyzed over TiO 2 based catalysts. A kinetic model for the hydrolysis reaction is going to be derived in a separate paper based on kinetic data and information from Langmuir adsorption isotherms of both reactants (HNCO and H 2 O) and products (NH 3 and CO 2 ), the latter being presented herein.
Abstract Sensitivity of burnet mitochondria to cyanide was studied and some detoxifying mechanisms were investigated. Results showed that burnet mitochondria are relatively sensitive to KCN and that the inhibitory effects of cyanide can be completely reversed by pyruvate. Additionally, some glycolytic intermediates were determined in vivo at differential times from the beginning of the crushing‐induced thanatosis and at subsequent arousal. On the basis of our results, a hypothesis is suggested to explain both the well‐known resistance shown in vivo by burnets to hydrocyanic acid, and the biochemical mechanism at the root of thanatosis.
The electrochemical behaviors of melamine (MEL) were studied at paraffin-impregnated graphite electrode in PBS (pH 7.0) and 0.5 M H2SO4. Various methods including UV–vis thin-layer spectroelectrochemistry, infrared spectra (IR) and electrochemicatry have been performed to investigate the characteristics. In 0.1 M PBS (pH 7.0), MEL loses two electrons to form a dication, which couples head-to-head with a neutral molecule of MEL to form a dimer accompanying the production of azocompound, the dimer plays a role of a monomer in the following polymerization. In 0.5 M H2SO4, unstable MEL mostly hydrolyzes to form ammeline, ammelide, s-triazine-2,4,6-trion, and tricyanic acid, respectively; The hydrolysis could be accelerated by electrochemical method; Meanwhile, MEL associates tricyanic acid to give a plane molecule cake by hydrogen bonding. The spectra responses of MEL at 205 and 234 nm are linearly increasing in a same concentration range of 1.0 × 10−7–1.0 × 10−5 M in 0.5 M H2SO4 (determination limit, 1 × 10−8 and 3 × 10−8 (3σ)). The proposed method was successfully applied to the determination of MEL in real sample.
In this study, bacterial strains were isolated from soils from 30 locations of Samcheok, Gangwon province. Of the isolated strains, seven showed potential plant growth promoting and antagonistic activities. Based on cultural and morphological characterization, and 16S rRNA gene sequencing, these strains were identified as Paenibacillus species. All seven strains produced ammonia, cellulase, hydrocyanic acid, indole-3-acetic acid, protease, phosphatase, and siderophores. They also inhibited the mycelial growth of Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. radicis-lycopersici in vitro. The seven Paenibacillus strains enhanced a range of growth parameters in tomato plants under greenhouse conditions, in comparison with non-inoculated control plants. Notably, treatment of tomato plants with one identified strain, P. polymyxa SC09-21, resulted in 80.0% suppression of fusarium crown and root rot under greenhouse conditions. The plant growth promoting and antifungal activity of P. polymyxa SC09-21 identified in this study highlight its potential suitability as a bioinoculant.
The reactions of the cyanomethylene (HCCN) radical with nitric oxide (NO) and with molecular oxygen (O2) have been investigated using infrared kinetic spectroscopy. The overall second-order rate constant for each reaction has been determined using pseudo-first-order methods yielding (3.5 ± 0.6) × 10-11 cm3 molecule-1 s-1 for the reaction with NO and (1.8 ± 0.4) × 10-12 cm3 molecule-1 s-1 for the reaction with O2. For each reaction, several products were observed, but none were quantified. Hydrogen cyanide (HCN) and fulminic acid (HCNO) were observed as products of the reaction with NO. For the reaction with O2, HCN, hydrogen isocyanide (HNC), and carbon dioxide (CO2) were observed. Species searched for but not detected from either reaction include isocyanic acid (HNCO), cyanic acid (HOCN), formyl (HCO) radical, isofulminic acid (HONC), hydroxyl radical (OH), and ethynyl radical (C2H). In addition, NO was searched for, but not observed, as a product of the O2 reaction. On the time scale of our experiments,...
In spite of the many investigations regarding the elimination of the several dyes from the blood from the kidneys, since Heidenhain, there is as far as I know still a lack of systhematic investigation in relation to the diffusibity of dyes. Hoping to fill up this gap I made the following experiments on toads (Bufo japonicus).Method.For my purpose I used the following dyes; Phenol-sulphone phthalein, picric acid, chrysoidin, bismarckbrown, auranin, pyronin, eosin, methylen blue, safranin, patent blue V., rhodamin, extra B., methylviolet, fuchsin, neutralred, alkali blue, indulin, kongored, indigocarmin, carmin extra B,. As a preminary experiment I measured the rate of diffusion of these dyes on the gelatin and agar. The following list is arranged in the descending order of the diffusion rate of the dyes.1. phenol-sulphone phtalein, 2. picric acid, 3. rhodamin, 4. patent blue V., 5. chrysoidin, 6. pyronin, 7. safranin, 8. eosin, 9. fuchsin, 10. bismarckbrown, 11. methylen blue, 12. methylviolet B., 13. carmin, 14. neutralred, 15. kongored, 16. alkaliblue, 17. indulin. Summary. 1) 1. picric acid, 2. phenol-sulphone phthalein, 3. rhodamin, 4. patent blue V., 5. chrysoidin, 6. pyronin, 7. safranin, 8. eosin, 9. fuchsin, 10. bismarckblown, 11. methylen blue, 12. methylviolet, 13. carmin,. The above mentioned dyes are very easily eliminaten from the glomerular capsules but from the tubles the elimination is less in amount and the order is the one indicated above. 2) Neutralred, indulin, alkali blue and kongored are eliminated from the glomerular capsules, but not from the tubles. 3) The more elimination of dyes from the tubles abounds the greater is the diffusion. 4) When perfused from the renal portal vein only, the dyes were eliminated in the lumen, but there was either no elimination of water at all or it had been absorbed by the epithelium of the convoluted tubles. 5) The elimination of the dyes from the glomerular capsules is influenced neither by the supply of oxygen in the fluid-flow nor by poisoning with cyanic acid. The elimination of dyes is not always accompanied by oxydation. 6) The elimination of the dyes from the tubles is influenced both by th supply of oxygen in the fluid-flow, and by poisoning with cyanic acid, and elimination of the dyes is accompanied by oxydation. Accordingly, I summarize as follows.The glomerural capsules allow the diffusion into them of all the dyes, which were made use of in the experiments; and regarding the elimination of dyes from the tubles there can hardly be found an explanation in terms of physical chemistory.
We use femtosecond infrared spectroscopy to study the aqueous pro- tonation dynamics of cyanate, OCN - , using a photoacid, 2-naphthol-6,8-disulfonate (2N-6,8S) excited by a 60-fs pulse tuned at 336 nm. The transient response in the spectral range of the cyano-stretching vibrational marker modes of cyanic acid, HOCN, and isocyanic acid, HNCO, reveals how much of both reaction products are formed at early delay times, and whether the on-contact reactive complex between 2N-6,8S and OCN - has a well-defined structure. Using the Szabo-Collins-Kimball approach to describe bimolecular reaction dynamics subject to the Debye-von Smo- luchowski diffusional motions, an on-contact proton transfer reaction rate is derived that follows the correlation between free energy and reaction rates found for a large class of aqueous proton transfer of photoacid dissociation and photoacid-base neu- tralization reactions.
Fatal Suicidal Case of Cyanide Poisoning- A Case Report ::: Hydrocyanic acid (HCN) is a solution of HCN in water (either 2% or 4%), the 4% solution being called ‘sheele’s acid’. Cyanides are white powders and are in common use in many trades like metallurgy, photography, electroplating, fumigation of ships and aircrafts and in agriculture for spraying to destroy blight. Here we present a case of fatal cyanide poisoning wherein the person had taken the compound orally, developed convulsions and declared ‘brought dead’ in the nearby hospital.
The detailed reaction mechanism for the water-assisted hydrolysis of isocyanic acid, HNCO + (n + 1) H2O → CO2 + NH3 + nH2O (n = 0−6), taking place in the gas phase, has been investigated. All structures were optimized and characterized at the MP2/6-31 + G* level of theory, and then re-optimized at MP2/6-311++G**. The seven explicit water molecules participating in the hydrolysis can be divided into two groups, one directly involved in the proton relay, and the other located in the vicinity of the substrate playing the cooperative role by engaging in hydrogen-bonding to HN = C = O. Two possible reaction pathways, the addition of water molecule across the C = N bond or across the C = O bond, are discussed, and the former is proved to be more favorable energetically. Our calculations suggest that, in the most kinetically favorable pathway for the titled hydrolysis, three water molecules are directly participating in the hydrogen transfer via an eight-membered cyclic transition state, while the other four water molecules catalyze the hydrolysis of HN = C = O by forming three eight-membered cooperative loops near the substrate. This strain-free hydrogen-bond network leads to the best estimated rate-determining activation energy of 24.9 kJ mol−1 at 600 K, in excellent agreement with the gas-phase kinetic experimental result, 25.8 kJ mol−1.
TRE.ES IN the vicinity of illuminating gas leaks in the soil may die rapidly, as indicated by a sudden wilting and drying of all the foliage, or they may succumb more or less gradually over one or more years. This latter type of injury may first involve uppermost twigs, the branches on one side, or a large branch or two, while -the remainder of the tree appears to be unaffected. Such unequal injury to the top of a tree frequently results in a tree of little value. In other cases, the damage may be minimized by judicious pruning. When one side or a few branches are killed, questions arise as to the manner in which this localization of injury occurs and whether a practice such as root pruning would be a benefit. Stone in the bulletin by Start, Stone, and Fernald (1908) stated that "if symptoms of gas poisoning were discovered in only one root, and the poisoning has not extended to the tree trunk, amputation of the root is the best remedy." He also claimed that the cutting of tree roots under a roadbed when regrading was done or curbing was placed saved many trees from iiijury by gas. Fernow (1910) also recommended root pruning for trees detected in the early stages of gas poisoning. To secure evidence of the effect of root pruning as a means of aiding gas-injured trees, small oak trees were subjected to illuminating gas in water until definite symptoms of injury were produced. The most affected distal portions of the tap and fibrous roots were then pruned off, the trees were repotted in soil, and the appearance of the tops and roots was observed during the following two years. EXPERIMENTAL. -A fairly uniform group of thirty, twoand three-year-old red and black oak trees that had been grown in pots was divided into three lots of ten trees each. The roots were washed free of soil and placed in gassing chambers consisting of clean, one-gallon cans, such as are used for varnish. Holes were cut in one side to admit the roots of ten trees. The foliaged tops were sealed off from the roots by plastic clay molded around the stems. The roots stood in' 3 cm. of water into which measured volumes of illuminating gas were passed. Coke oven gas of the New Haven Gas Light Company was used. A complete analysis of this gas was given in a previous paper (Deuber, 1936). The content of illhminants was 3.00 per cent, carbon monoxide 8.70 per cent, and hydrocyanic acid was absent, according to the factory analyses. One cubic foot of this gas was passed into tlle water of the gassing chamber containing the first lot of trees; 17.2 cubic feet of gas during four hours into the water of the second lot; and 24.5 cubic feet in seven hours to the third lot together with a flow of 0.58 cubic feet of gas per hour for the next four
Urea was decomposed in sub- and supercritical water in the presence and the absence of hydrogen peroxide at temperatures from 538 to 651 K, 23 MPa and residence times up to 1.5 s in a continuous flow reactor. The initial concentrations of urea varied from 0.005 to 0.5 mol L−1. The major products were carbon dioxide, and ammonia. As a minor product cyanic acid was detected without hydrogen peroxide, and nitric acid and nitrous acid were produced with hydrogen peroxide. The decomposition rates of urea with and without hydrogen peroxide were represented by the first order reaction kinetics. The addition of hydrogen peroxide increased the rates at lower temperatures, but was scarcely effective at higher temperatures. In the absence of hydrogen peroxide, the effects of various additives at concentrations of 0.5 mol L−1 on the decomposition rates at 649 K were examined. The addition of NaOH enhanced them remarkably. The presence of NaCl did not affect the product distribution significantly, but enhanced the rates somewhat, in particular, increasing as approaching to the critical temperature of water. The addition of acids, hydrogen chloride and sulfuric acid, did not increase the rates.
A first detailed description of urea decomposition behavior was proposed by Schaber et al. 8 based on TG, HPLC, FT-IR and ammonium ISE (ion-selective electrode) measurements. Concluding from experimental results and literature data, 23 possible reactions including urea and its by-products biuret, cyanuric acid, ammelide, ammeline and melamine are presented. Further, cyanate and cyanurate salts and cyanamide are proposed as possible intermediates of high temperature urea decomposition. Triuret production and decomposition are not accounted for in this study. The authors classify urea decomposition into four temperature regions. The first temperature regime from room temperature to 190 1C comprises urea melting and vaporization starting from 133 1C. With increasing temperature, urea decomposes to ammonia and isocyanic acid, the latter leading to biuret, cyanuric acid and ammelide formation. The second temperature region of 190-250 1C is dedicated to biuret decomposition accompanied by several side reactions forming cyanuric acid and ammelide. At 225 1C, the melt is observed to be converted into a sticky, solid matrix, which is assumed to originate from ionic formations of different by-products without evidence. Besides small amounts of ammelide, ammeline and melamine, cyanuric acid is the main component observed at 250 1C. The third temperature range from 250 to 360 1C represents the sublimation and decomposition of cyanuric acid. Ammelide, ammeline and melamine are proposed to gradually decompose at temperatures above 360 1C, marking the fourth temperature region. The authors describe the elimination of ammelide at 600 1C and ammeline at 700 1C. High temperature residues are not investigated. 8 Eichelbaum et al. 10 propose a reaction network for urea decomposition consisting of nine major reactions based on simultaneous TG/DTA (Differential Thermal Analysis) coupled with GC/MS (Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry) gas analyses. Decomposition reactions of ammelide, ammeline and melamine are defined and total decomposition is observed at temperatures above 625 1C. However, the proposed reaction scheme lacks a description of relevant parallel and equilibrium reactions of urea by-products. Acceleration of urea pyrolysis by different metal exchanged zeolites was demonstrated. 10 A more detailed reaction scheme derived by using flow reactor experiments using FTIR spectroscopy for gaseous species and HPLC for solid reaction product analysis covered 15 decomposition reactions. 11 For the first time, triuret production and decomposition were included and several reactions were proposed to be equilibrium reactions.
Based on the proposed reaction schemes, a first kinetic model for evaporation and decomposition of urea water solution was developed by Ebrahimian et al. 12 The model describes urea decomposition to ammonia and isocyanic acid and the equilibrium reaction forming biuret. Reactions from biuret to cyanuric acid and from cyanuric acid to ammelide and isocyanic acid are included. Ammelide is assumed to decompose to gaseous by-products.
Thermogravimetric measurements have shown a strong influence of the experimental boundary conditions on urea decomposition kinetics. Besides the sample heating rate, 5, 6, 8 decomposition behavior is highly sensitive to the geometric arrangement of the samples and respective crucibles. 6, 10 An increased surface area of the sample is assumed to accelerate mass transport of gaseous products. 10, 11 Further, the presence of water was stated to decrease by-product formation due to isocyanic acid hydrolysis. 10, 11 In a very recent publication by Wang et al., 14 the gaseous and condensed products of the decomposition of urea have been analyzed in detail for the temperature range from 132.5 to 190 1C by means of online mass spectrometry and liquid chromatography mass spectrometry, respectively. They derived a reaction scheme where biuret and cyanuric acid are formed directly by self-combination reactions of urea.
Abstract In this study, bacterial strains were isolated from soils from 30 locations of Samcheok, Gangwon province. Of the isolated strains, seven showed potential plant growth promoting and antagonistic activities. Based on cultural and morphological characterization, and 16S rRNA gene sequencing, these strains were identified as Paenibacillus species. All seven strains produced ammonia, cellulase, hydrocyanic acid, indole-3-acetic acid, protease, phosphatase, and siderophores. They also inhibited the mycelial growth of Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. radicis-lycopersici in vitro. The seven Paenibacillus strains enhanced a range of growth parameters in tomato plants under greenhouse conditions, in comparison with non-inoculated control plants. Notably, treatment of tomato plants with one identified strain, P. polymyxa SC09-21, resulted in 80.0% suppression of fusarium crown and root rot under greenhouse conditions. The plant growth promoting and antifungal activity of P. polymyxa SC09-21 identified in this study highlight its potential suitability as a bioinoculant.
Most molecules observed in space can be formed with just four atoms, H, C, N, and O. These atoms are the building blocks of organic and prebiotic molecules, and arranged together, constitute the backbone of the peptide bond R-C(=O)-N(-H)-R , which links two amino acids and allows to build large proteins. Therefore, the observation of simple molecules with the C(=O)-N group in space can provide important clues on the earliest chemical steps in the synthesis of amino acids. The isocyanate radical (NCO) is the simplest such species and it is predicted to be abundant in dark clouds (Prasad & Huntress 1978; Marcelino et al. 2009) . It is also the main precursor of isocyanic acid (HNCO), a species that has been found in a large variety of interstellar environments (see Marcelino et al. 2009 , and references within).
could produce all the CHNO isomers, including the highest isomer in energy HONC not detected so far in space, and also the NCO radical (Marcelino et al. 2010) . The two isomeric forms of the protonated isocyanic acid H 2 NCO + and HNCOH + , have been studied in the laboratory (Lattanzi et al. 2012; Gupta et al. 2013) , and H 2 NCO + has been tentatively detected in absorption of the low-lying rotational transitions in the centimeter band towards the molecular cloud Sgr B2(N) by Gupta et al. (2013) .
PGPRs have been reported to improve plant growth and suppress the growth of plant pathogens (Gopalakrishnan et al. 2011) . Several mechanisms have been suggested whereby bacteria can promote plant growth (phytohormone production, nitrogen fixation, and stimulating nutrient uptake) and reduce plant diseases (competition for space, nutrients, and ecological niches; production of hydrocyanic acid, siderophores, hydrolases and antifungal compounds; or the induction of systemic resistance (ISR)) (Kloepper and Beauchamp 1992; Ajit et al. 2006) . Furthermore, the ability to colonize the rhizosphere has also been considered a relevant trait for biocontrol (Kamilova et al. 2007) .
The effects of exhaust gas temperature,flow velocity and urea solution injection rate on deposit formation were investigated through diesel engine bench test.The inner wall temperature of exhaust pipe was measured and compared with the exhaust gas temperature.The decomposition of deposits formed in durability test and road test was analyzed by using thermogravimetry(TG) and infrared spectroscopic analysis.The analysis of metallic impurities was carried out by using inductively coupled plasma emission spectrometer(ICP-OES) and mass spectrometer(ICP-MS).The results showed that the exhaust gas temperature,flow velocity and urea solution injection rate had the influence on deposit formation.The inner wall temperature in the position of 0.250 m and 0.885 m downstream the injector decreased separately from 155 ℃ and 126 ℃ to 137 ℃ and 116 ℃ after the injection of urea solution when the exhaust temperature was 227 ℃.The low inner wall temperature increased the possibility of deposit formation.At the temperature between 350 ℃ and 420 ℃,the deposits decomposed quickly.At the temperature of 420 ℃,ninety percent of deposits had decomposed.At the temperature of 700 ℃,the complete decomposition achieved.The main decomposition product of deposits was isocyanic acid.The mass content of metallic impurities in two deposit samples was separately 1 351.09×10-6 and 195.32×10-6.
The use、market and developing production status in domestic of iminodiacetic acid were introduced. It was pointed that new process development program of Tianjin University should be accelerated. Hydrocyanic acid process was deeply studies for its complete use, and it was suggestion that new units were better to be 3kt/a.
ABSTRACTPlant growth promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) enhance the plant growth directly by assisting in nutrient acquisition and modulating plant hormone levels, or indirectly by decreasing the inhibitory effects of various pathogens. The aim of this study was to select effective PGPR from a series of indigenous bacterial isolates by plant growth promotion and antifungal activity assays. This study confirmed that most of the isolates from maize rhizosphere were positive for PGPR properties by in vitro tests. Azotobacter and Bacillus isolates were better phosphate solubilizers and producers of lytic enzymes, hydrocyanic acid (HCN), and siderophores than Pseudomonas. Production of indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) and antifungal activity were the highest in Azotobacter, followed by Bacillus and Pseudomonas. The most effective Azotobacter isolates (Azt3, Azt6, Azt12) and Bacillus isolates (Bac10, Bac16) could be used as PGPR agents for improving maize productivity. Further selection of isolates will be necessary to d...
Dithiotricyanic acid immobilized silica gel(DTTCSG) was prepared and applied to the determination of gold with flame atomic absorption spectrometric (FAAS) after on-line preconcentration and separation. The limit of determination(LOD) and relative standard deviation(RSD) was 0.94 ng/mL and 1.8%, when 0.1 μg/mL Au in 0.2 mol/L HCl solution was preconcentrated for 60 s with a sample flow rate of 4.6 mL/min. The proposed method was successfully applied to the on-line preconcentration, separation and determination of gold in nickel alloy and anode slime certified samples.
The invention discloses a catalyst for catalyzing isocyanic acid produced in a urea pyrolysis process to hydrolyze so as to generate ammonia and a preparation method of the catalyst. The catalyst is composed of a carrier, and an active component host and a doping component adjuvant which are loaded on the carrier. The carrier is a ZSM-5 molecular sieve, the active component host is titanium dioxide, and the doping component adjuvant is iron, platinum, or a mixture of iron and platinum. The catalyst provided by the invention is larger in specific surface area, more stable in performance at high temperature and higher in catalytic activity.
The invention relates to a method for producing ethylene diamine (EDA), wherein the method comprises the steps a) to c). In step a), formaldehyde is converted with hydrocyanic acid (HCN) to formaldehyde-cyanohydrine (FACH), wherein the hydrocyanic acid is completely free or extensively free of sulfur dioxide (SO2). The FACH thus produced is converted in step b) with ammonia (NH3) to aminoacetone-nitrile (AAN), and, in step c), hydrogenation of AAN to EDA occurs in the presence of a catalyst.
1. Narcosis and asphyxia in insects can be investigated by measuring the recovery time. This and other terms are defined, and suitable criteria of recovery are given. 2. Simple techniques for the etherizing and gassing of Drosophila batches are described and the validity of the quantitative results obtained is shown. 3. The recovery time is increased by the time of influx and by the concentration of the narcotic. The shapes of the curves obtained in experimental series are logarithmic (carbon dioxide asphyxiation), straight line (ether in some species), concave, convex or sigmoid (ether). It is suggested that the different forms of ether recovery curves are different parts of essentially similar curves, which one might explain by the joint action of two macrophases, one aqueous and one lipoid. 4. Physiological factors determining recovery times are: ( a ) sex: females recover earlier from ether narcosis than males; ( b ) age: young flies recover earlier than older ones; ( c ) lack of food and moisture, which increases the recovery time; and ( d ) chemical reaction: flies kept on acid food remain longer narcotized than flies bred on an alkaline medium. 5. Carbon dioxide lengthens recovery from ether narcosis and hydrocyanic acid immobilization when applied before the influx time and shortens it when applied during recovery time. If administered during recovery, it also shortens the recovery from asphyxiation. 6. Carbon monoxide and coal gas administered before narcotization can shorten the recovery time from ether narcosis. 7. Under specified conditions corresponding to those, used during narcosis by Drosophila -workers some differences in recovery time after etherization due to genetical differences could be established. Significant differences also exist between some Drosophila species, races and mutants in their resistance to carbon dioxide, asphyxiation and hydrocyanic acid gas.
Lifetimes of matrix‐isolated NH/ND(a 1Δ) radicals have been measured as function of temperature and rare gas host. The metastable species were generated directly by in situ photolysis of hydrazoic or isocyanic acid, or by pulsed excitation of the b 1Σ+ state with a dye laser, which subsequently decays to the a state on a μs time scale. Rotation of NH/ND in the electronic ground state is perturbed or inhibited by the second photofragment in the photolysis systems. The lifetimes of NH(a 1Δ) in Ne, Ar, and Kr show little temperature dependence. This is consistent with a radiationless contribution to the overall relaxation in which the energy gap to the next lower vibrational level of the ground state is accepted by guest rotation and/or other local modes. The strong temperature dependent decay of ND(a 1Δ) in Ar and Kr is due to endothermic near resonant relaxation to the sixth vibrational level of the ground state, with an activation energy in the order of the energy gap, and a frequency factor of 20±5 s−1. ...
Abstract Extract Reed sweet-grass, Poa aquatica (Glyceria maxima, Glyceria acquatica), a member of the Gramineae family, is an introduced plant found in wet places in various localities in both the North and South Islands, but mainly in Otago and Southland (Allan, 1940 ). Garner ( 1961 , p. 318) quotes Quisumbine (1947) as listing 25 species belonging to the family Gramineae, including Poa aquatica, which contain hydrocyanic acid. Connor (1951) , however, does not list Poa aquatica as one of the poisonous plants of New Zealand, and no previous references to poisoning by this plant have been found.
Five varieties of Sorghum bicolor: Jawahar 69, MP Chari (multicut), Vidisha 60-1, Jawahar 6 and Jawahar 30 (single cut), were selected to study the fluctuation in the amount of prussic acid at different growth stages, and the crude fibre, crude protein, sugar, fat and mineral constituents at harvest. Jawahar 6 gave the highest green-fodder yield (36700 kg/ha), medium DM percentage and the lowest amount of hydrocyanic acid at every stage of growth. It proved fairly safe at 35 days of growth for feeding to animals, whereas other varieties contained toxic amounts of HCN even at 44 to 60 days of growth. Jawahar 6 gave the lowest percentage of crude fibre (29.61), the highest percentage of sugar (12.27), protein (6.21), fat (2.75), CaO (0.781), MgO (0.580), P2O5 (0.294), K2O (2.67), Na2O (0.060) and S (0.095). There was a high positive correlation between green-fodder yield and its constituents, but a negative correlation with HCN and crude fibre.ADDITIONAL ABSTRACT:Of five varieties studied, Jawahar 6 gave the highest green-fodder yield, had an intermediate dry-matter percentage and showed the lowest hydrocyanic acid (HCN) content at every growth stage. It was fairly safe as animal fodder after 35 days of growth whereas other varieties still contained toxic amounts of HCN after 44 to 60 days. Jawahar 6 had the lowest content of crude fibre and highest contents of sugar, protein, fat and minerals
Context Feeding of fresh cassava root in ruminants is limited because it contains a high level of hydrocyanic acid (HCN), which is responsible for poisoning. Aims The objective of the present study was to evaluate the effect of sulfur levels supplementation in the fermented total mixed ration (FTMR) containing fresh cassava root as an energy source on the gas kinetics, ruminal fermentation, reduction of HCN concentration and nutrient digestibility in the in vitro gas production. Methods The experimental design was a 3 × 4 factorial in a completely randomised design. Dietary treatments contained factor A, which was three levels of sulfur supplementation at 0, 1 and 2% in FTMR, and factor B was ensiling time at 0, 7, 14 and 21 days respectively. Key results Concentration of HCN in FTMR was significantly reduced (P 0.05). Furthermore, gas production from the insoluble fraction (b) ranged from 48.8 to 53.9, and gas production rate constants for the insoluble fraction (c) ranged from 0.1 to 0.2. The potential extent of gas production (a + b) was also unchanged when the concentration of sulfur increased (P > 0.05). In addition, there were no interactions between sulfur levels and ensiling times on all parameters (P > 0.05). In contrast, cumulative gas production (at 96 h of incubation) was significantly different when sulfur increased at 2% (P 0.05) among dietary treatments which ranged from 21.2 to 24.0 mg%. FTMR ensiled for 21 days had the highest in in vitro dry matter digestibility, an in vitro neutral detergent fibre and in vitro acid detergent fibre digestibility which were 61.0–62.5, 35.1–43.1 and 22.3–25.9% dry matter (DM) respectively. Regarding the concentration of total volatile fatty acid (VFA), acetic acid, propionic acid and butyric acid, ranges from 94.7 to 113.6 mmol/L, 59.3 to 67.4, 20.2 to 25.9 and 11.3 to 13.8 mol/100 mol, respectively, were observed and did not differ among treatments (P > 0.05). The concentration of total VFA relative to the sulfur level and ensiling time had no effect on ruminal VFA concentrations. However, exceedingly high percentages of sulfur (2% of the DM) in the diet tend to increase total VFA concentration. Conclusions Using of 2% sulfur supplementation in TMR containing fresh cassava root fermented could improve the kinetics of gas and nutrient digestibility while maintaining ruminal fermentation parameters and the rate of HCN disappearance. Implications These findings should be examined in further in vivo experiments in order to increase animal performance.
The heat of formation of NC0 has been determined rigorously by state-of-the-art ab initio electronic structure methods, including Mnrller-Plesset perturbation theory from second through fifth order (MP2-MP5) and coupled-cluster and Brueckner methods incorporating various degrees of excitation [CCSD, CCSD (T), BD, BD (T) , and BD (TQ)]. Five independent reactions were investigated to establish a consistent value for sf,c(NCO): (a) HNCO(X *A’>dH(2S) +NCO(211), (b) HNCO(X ‘A’) dH+ +NCO-, (c) N(4S> +CO-+NC0(211), (d) HCN+0(3P) +H(2S) +NC0(2H), and (e) NH(3Z-) +CO+H(2S) + NC0 ( 211). The one-particle basis sets employed in the study were comprised of as many as 377 contracted Gaussian functions and ranged in quality from [4s2pld] to [14@6d4f] on the (C,N,O) atoms and from [2.slp] to [8s6p4d] on hydrogen. After the addition of bond additivity corrections evaluated from related reactions of precisely known thermochemistry, all five approaches were found to converge on the value sf,c( NCO) = 3 1.4 (5) kcal mol-‘. Appurtenant refinements were obtained for the heat of formation of isocyanic acid, hH”f,o(HNCO) = -27.5(5) kcal mol-‘, and hydrogen cyanide, sf,c(HCN) =31.9(5) kcal mol-‘. The final proposals for tiY,,(NCO) and AE&(HNCO) resolve outstanding discrepancies with experiment and provide updates for thermochemical cycles of relevance to combustion chemistry.
As a suitable alternative to chemical fertilizers, the application of plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria has been increasing in recent years due to their potential to be used as biofertilizers. In the present work, 13 nitrogen-fixing bacterial strains belonging to 11 different genera were tested for their PGP attributes. All of the strains were positive for 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate deaminase (ACCD), indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), salicylic acid, and ammonia production while negative for cellulase, pectinase, and hydrocyanic acid production. The strains Pseudomonas sp. RFNB3 and Serratia sp. RFNB14 were the most effective in solubilizing both tri-calcium phosphate and zinc oxide. In addition, all strains except Pseudomonas sp. RFNB3 were able to oxidize sulfur, and six strains were positive for siderophore synthesis. Each strain tested in this study possesses at least four PGP properties in addition to nitrogen fixation. Nine strains were selected based on their multiple PGP potential, particularly ACCD and IAA production, and evaluated for their effects on early growth of tomato and red pepper under gnotobiotic conditions. Bacterial inoculation considerably influenced root and shoot length, seedling vigor, and dry biomass of the two crop plants. Three strains that demonstrated substantial effects on plant performance were further selected for greenhouse trials with red pepper, and among them Pseudomonas sp. RFNB3 resulted in significantly higher plant height (26%) and dry biomass (28%) compared to control. The highest rate of nitrogen fixation, as determined by acetylene reduction assay, occurred in Novosphingobium sp. RFNB21 inoculated red pepper root (49.6 nM of ethylene/h/g of dry root) and rhizosphere soil (41.3 nM of ethylene/h/g of dry soil). Inoculation with nitrogen-fixing bacteria significantly increased chlorophyll content, and the uptake of different macro- and micro-nutrient contents enhancing also in red pepper shoots, in comparison with uninoculated controls. The population estimation studies showed that nitrogen-fixing as well as total heterotrophic bacteria were also noticeably increased in soil and plant samples. The findings of this study suggest that certain nitrogen-fixing strains possessing multiple PGP traits could be applied in the development of biofertilizers.
Abstract An expedient entry into the preparation of isothiocyanate terpenes is presented. The method involves the addition of isothiocyanic acid prepared “in situ” to terminal double bonds.
An experiment to determine the effect of nitrogen, sulphur and phosphorus fertilizer, applied at sowing, on the growth and chemical composition of a hybrid sorghum x sudangrass forage, is reported. The factorial design was repeated at six sites in northern New South Wales in one year, 1976-77. Urea (50 kg nitrogen ha-1) substantially reduced plant populations at three sites. At the first harvest, dry matter production, after adjustment for plant population, was more than doubled by 20 kg phosphorus ha-1; yields were depressed by nitrogen where phosphorus was withheld. Hydrocyanic acid (HCN) potential (mean 0.04%), was increased 28% by nitrogen fertilizer, and reduced 34% by phosphorus fertilizer. Sulphur content was increased from 0.15 to 0.17% by nitrogen fertilizer, and reduced from 0.175 to 0.142% by the phosphorus treatment; it was unaffected by 20 or 50 kg sulphur ha-1 applied at sowing. At two sites, phosphorus increased the sodium concentration but the enhanced levels were still below recommended dietary requirements. The ratio of nitrogen : sulphur (after adjustment for potential loss of sulphur in the detoxication of HCN), was increased from 25:1 to 29:1 by nitrogen fertilizer. The response to sulphur was slight, and the effect of phosphorus was inconsistent. Similar but reduced effects on growth and composition occurred in the second harvest. Hydrocyanic acid levels were much higher, and the adjusted nitrogen:sulphur ratios were exceptionally wide. On the evidence available it appears that the direct supplementation of animals is the most feasible means of ensuring adequate levels of sulphur and sodium in the diet.
1,2-Diaza-1,3-dienes readily react as Michael acceptors with thiocyanic acid generated in situ from potassium thiocyanate. The acidic medium of the reaction promotes the intramolecular ring closure of the α-thiocyanato hydrazones allowing access to novel 2-imino-4-thiazolines functionalized at positions 3, 4, and 5 in a one-pot, high-yielding process.
Abstract The stabilization of monomeric and dimeric iron complexes, such as Fe OH, HO Fe O Fe OH and Fe O Fe, which are representative of the iron-exchange in the ZSM-5 structure, has been investigated using a DFT approach with a cluster model. A Si20O53H28 cluster was chosen to represent part of a single channel in the ZSM-5 structure. In this basic cluster, two Si atoms were replaced by two aluminum atoms to simulate the exchange sites in ZSM-5 and to determine energetically favorable locations for Al Al couples. The distance of the aluminum atoms varied from 4.8 to 7.5 A. Inside the clusters of the ZSM-5 structure, iron oxohydroxide and oxide species formed stable monomer and dimer configurations, which were bound to the oxygen atoms of AlO 4 - due the more negative charge and the stronger ion attraction compared to SiO4. The stabilization energy per iron site was about 3.5 eV for the monomeric iron complex and 1.0–2.5 eV for the different dimeric iron sites. These similar energy levels, in combination with a detailed study of the geometric structure of the iron and oxygen centers in Fe-ZSM-5, support our hypotheses that the distribution of iron sites follows the distribution of the Al atoms and that no preferred configurations exist for these interactions. However, when aluminum centers are present with a distance compatible to the Fe Fe distance the formation of a dimer is slightly favored. In addition, the molecular and dissociative adsorption of isocyanic acid on Fe-ZSM-5 has been investigated due to its importance for the selective catalytic reduction of NOx with urea.
This paper presents some unpublished aspects and ongoing developments of the recently elaborated generator approach to the evolutionary optimization of catalytic materials, the purpose of which is to obtain evolutionary algorithms precisely tailored to the problem being solved. It briefly recalls the principles of the approach, and then it describes how the employed evolutionary operations reflect the specificity of the involved mixed constrained optimization tasks, and how the approach tackles checking the feasibility of large polytope systems, frequently resulting from the optimization constraints. Finally, the paper discusses the integration of the approach with surrogate modeling, paying particular attention to surrogate models enhanced with boosting. The usefulness of surrogate modeling in general and of boosted surrogate models in particular is documented on a case study with data from a high-temperature synthesis of hydrocyanic acid.
1. A method of producing a carboxylic acid amide of the carbonyl compound and hydrocyanic acid, which comprises the following steps: A) reacting a carbonyl compound with hydrocyanic acid to produce nitrile hydroxycarboxylic acid, B) the hydrolysis product of step A) of the nitrile in the presence of a hydroxycarboxylic acid containing manganese dioxide catalyst, to react the carbonyl compound with hydrocyanic acid in step a) using a molar excess of carbonyl coupled Nia relative to hydrocyanic acid and wherein obtained in step A) the reaction mixture before performing step B) the hydrolysis is not subjected to a distillation purification, characterized in that obtained in step B), the reaction mixture was subjected to purification by two-step distillation, whereby the resulting amide carboxylic acid and water is separated from a mixture comprising a carbonyl compound, a nitrile hydroxycarboxylic acid and / or hydrocyanic acid, and the next distillation stage from the resulting amide carboxylic acid vodu.2 separated. A method according to claim 1, characterized in that the molar ratio of carbonyl compound to hydrocyanic acid is from 1.1: 1 to 7: 1.3. A method according to claim 2, characterized in that the molar ratio of carbonyl compound to hydrocyanic acid is from 1.5: 1 to 5: 1.4. A method according to claim 1, characterized in that the carboxylic acid amide is separated from the water by multistage vyparivaniya.5. A method according to claim 1, characterized in that the distillation column used for separating water and hydrocyanic acid
In the biosynthetic pathway of an anti-tubercular antibiotic D-cycloserine (D-CS), O-ureido-D-serine (D-OUS) is converted to D-CS. We have previously demonstrated that DcsG, classified into the ATP-grasp superfamily enzyme, catalyzes the ring formation to generate D-CS, which is accompanied by the cleavage of a bond in the urea moiety of D-OUS to remove a carbamoyl group. Although the general ATP-grasp enzymes catalyze an ATP-dependent ligation reaction between two substrates, DcsG catalyzes specifically the generation of an intramolecular covalent bond. In the present study, cyanate was found in the reaction mixture, suggesting that carbamoyl group is eliminated as an isocyanic acid during the reaction. By the crystallographic and mutational investigations of DcsG, we anticipate the residues necessary for the binding of D-OUS. An acylphosphate intermediate must be bound at the narrow pocket of DcsG in a folded conformation, inducing the bond cleavage and the new bond formation to generate cyanate and D-CS, respectively.
A method for the preparation of acid amides by heating an equimolecular mixture of acid and thiourea, is described. The method has been successfully applied to aliphatic mono- and di-basic acids, aryl-aliphatic acids as well as benzoic acid. The yield has been found to be dependent upon the relative volatility of the acid employed for the reaction. Best yields have been obtained with aryl-aliphatic acids. The mechanism of amide formation from acid and thiourea, based upon the intermediate addition of carboxylic acid to thiocyanic acid, the latter formed by the decomposition of thiourea, is suggested and an electronic representation of the mechanism is given.
Alkyl/aryl-3-amino-1H,3H-quinoline-2,4-diones react with alkyl/aryl isothiocyanates to give 3a-alkyl/ aryl-1,2,3,3a-tetrahydro-9b-hydroxy-2-thioxo-5H-imidazo(4,5-c)quinolin-4(9bH)-ones in high yields. These compounds rearrange in boiling acetic acid or concd hydrochloric acid to give novel 4-(2-ami- nophenyl)-1H-imidazole-2(3H)-thiones, 1,3-bis(2-(2,3-dihydro-2-thioxo-1H-imidazol-5-yl)phenyl)ureas and minor N-(2-(2,3-dihydro-2-thioxo-1H-imidazol-4-yl)phenyl)acetamides. In the presence of ethanol, the starting compounds rearrange in boiling acetic acid to give ethyl 2-(2,3-dihydro-2-thioxo-1H-imid- azol-4-yl)phenylcarbamates. All compounds were characterized by their In our laboratory, much attention has been paid to the reactivity of 3-amino, 3-hydroxy and 3-thiocyanato-1H,3H-quinoline-2,4- diones. Recently, the behaviour of the products of the reaction of 3-amino-1H,3H-quinoline-2,4-diones with isocyanic acid and iso- cyanates was investigated. In an acidic medium, these compounds are subject to molecular rearrangement, leading to novel hetero- cycles. A brief survey of these transformations was given in our last paper on this topic. 1 The exceptional structural diversity of the products of the mo- lecular rearrangement mentioned above gave us incentive to perform the analogous reaction of 3-amino-1H,3H-quinoline-2,4- diones with isothiocyanates and to examine how the products of this reaction would behave in an acidic environment. We antici- pated the formation of new compounds containing a sulfur atom, which may be interesting, since many biologically active com- pounds contain a sulfur atom. 2,3
Ximenia americana L. (Olacaceae) is widespread throughout the tropics, especially in Africa and Brazil. It is used as food or supplements and in the cosmetic industry. It is also used for traditional medicine as anti-inflammatory, analgesic, antipyretic, antimalarial, measles, mouth wounds, rheumatism, diarrhea, lung abscess, muscle cramps, and HIV. This species showed high sensitivity in tumor cell lines and the cell lines of MCF7 breast cancer, BV173 CML, and CC531 colon carcinoma. Santana et al. developed and validated an analytical method for the identification of gallic acid as a chemical marker of X. americana. It were also showed compounds such as sambunigrin, quercitrin, avicularin, and ximenynic acid. The fruit is a rich source of vitamin C and contains hydrocyanic acid riproximin.
Abstract The plasma chemistry of transient species in methyl thiocyanate (CH 3 SCN) dc discharges was studied semi-quantitatively using spectroscopic techniques. The vibrational spectra of CS and CN diatomic species in these plasmas have been recorded using mid-infrared diode laser absorption spectroscopy (TDLAS). Concentrations of about 10 12 and 10 13 –10 14 cm −3 were determined for CN and CS, respectively. It was also found that under high plasma current conditions, the concentration of ground state CN showed a decrease, while that of CS exhibited opposite behavior. The generation and loss of CN and CS were explained through a combination of key electron impact processes and radical–molecule reactions. One of the most abundant discharge products with a concentration of about 10 15 cm −3 is isothiocyanic acid (HNCS) also detected using TDLAS. Surface as well as gas phase reactions contributed to its abundance in the plasma. Other species such as HCN and CS 2 were detected with Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, while the electronic emission spectra of CN, CS, CH, N 2 * and NH were also recorded using optical emission spectroscopy.
In the present study, the Cicer arietinum (chickpea) rhizosphere bacterial strains Azotobacter chroococcum (AU-1), Bacillus subtilis (AU-2), Pseudomonas aeruginosa (AU-3) and Bacillus pumilis (AU-4) were isolated and characterized for plant growth-promoting traits with an aim of developing bio-fertilizing agent to improve growth and yield of chickpea plants under normal conditions. The ACC degrading potential of strains AU-1, AU-2, AU-3, and AU-4 was in the range of 600–1700 nmol α-ketobutyrate per mg of cellular protein per hour, respectively. These four rhizobacteria exhibited Indole acetic acid production approximately between 20 and 35.34 µg/ml. The phosphate solubilization potential was in the range of 78–87.64 mg Soluble P/L with maximum solubilization displayed by strains P. aeruginosa and B. pumilis. All the growth-promoting isolates displayed Fe-chelating siderophore and ammonia production while no isolate was able to produce hydrocyanic acid. Besides evaluating the presence of multifaceted in vitro plant growth-promoting traits, these four rhizobacterial isolates were halotolerant as well as water stress (drought) tolerant of up to − 1.2 Mpa of PEG 6000. The optimum pH and temperature for their growth were found to be pH 7 and 30 °C temperature. Under normal conditions, inoculation with formulated bacterial consortia significantly improved the (P ≤ 0.05) germination index, plant height, leaf area index, stem diameter, and chlorophyll content by ~ 50%, 100%, 63%, 185%, and 63%, respectively, as compared to uninoculated chickpea plants. The consortia of halotolerant and drought tolerant bacterial strains were shown to exert a positive impact on the growth of chickpea plants under normal conditions.
The pathological mechanism of the alcoholtobacco intoxication is unknown. It is presumed that the hydrocyanic acid and the free radicals in tobacco deteriorate the mitochondrial respiratory chain of the DNA, thus modifications Romanian Society of Ophthalmology © 2019 of the mitochondrial morphology appear, which lead to demyelination [2, 3] . In most cases, the primary lesion is not located in the optic nerve, but it is possible for it to be located at the level of the retina, chiasm, or even the optic tracts [1] [2] [3] 8] .
Based on this approach, As(III) is also a conjugated base of arsenous acid with a low acid dissociation constant (Ka) and so is believed to potentially behave like the hydrocyanic acid under similar conditions. Therefore, this work aims to develop a new colorimetric method that is simple, rapid, low cost and applicable for field analysis for the determination of As(III) in water samples by BF2-curcumin solution and BF2-curcumin-coated resin.
Abstract Urea-SCR over metal exchanged zeolites is one of the leading catalytic technologies to abate NOx emissions in diesel exhaust. Ideally, urea injected into the diesel exhaust upstream of the SCR catalyst decomposes only to the gaseous products CO2 and NH3, where the latter gas can react with NOx emissions to form harmless N2 and H2O. However, solid by-products can be formed as well, and if deposited on the catalyst harm the long-term catalytic performance. In order to identify the impact of various urea decomposition products on the catalytic activity, we studied the pyrolysis and hydrolysis of neat urea and of urea over different zeolites (H-Y, Cu-Y, H-Beta, Na-Beta, and Fe-Beta). The experiments were run in dry and steam-containing N2 between 20 and 750 ° C by using simultaneous thermogravimetric analysis (TGA), differential thermoanalysis (DTA), and online GC/MS evolved gas analysis. Solid intermediate products at different decomposition temperatures were identified by means of ATR-FTIR and luminescence spectroscopy. As for neat urea, CO2, NH3 and HNCO could be detected as major gaseous products. At 270 ° C significant amounts of cyanuric acid and ammelide and at 500 ° C of melem and melon were identified as solid intermediates. Above 625 ° C, all solid residues decomposed to cyanogen and isocyanic acid. Furthermore, it could be shown clearly that the investigated zeolites significantly accelerate the pyrolysis of urea and cyanuric acid, and the hydrolysis of HNCO, by shifting the decomposition processes to lower temperatures and by inhibiting the formation of solid by-products. In addition, the presence of steam in the feed gas can prevent even further the formation of solid residues and the high temperature adsorption of gaseous products.
3-Hydroxytetradecanoic acid was synthesized by a five-step reaction from epichlorohydrin in overall yield of 52.48%.The decyl chloride was used instead of 1-bromodecane to produce Grignard reagent to reduce production of the byproduct eicosane;intermidiate 1-chloro-2-hydroxytridecane was used directly to react with sodium cyanide,which could avoid generating virulent hydrocyanic acid.
(partial) Leaching of Nickeliferous or Cobaltiferous Sources Using Organic Reagents: using amines, ketones, organic acids, organo-phosphorous compounds, mixtures or organic reagents. Solvent Extraction of Nickel and/or Cobalt from Solutions: using one non-heterocyclic organic compound - using amines, oximes, ketones or aldehydes, organic acids, cyanic acids or derivatives, organic agents containing sulphur, alcohols, phenols or naphthols using mixtures of acyclic or carboxyclic compounds with organic extractants of different types - using an amine and organic acid, an amine and an anion of organic acid, quaternary ammonium extractant and an oxime or a ketone or a heterocyclic compound, an oxime and an organic acid, an oxime and a sulphonic acid, an oxime and a phenol using heterocyclic derivatives - using quinoline derivatives, other heterocyclic derivatives using organophosphorous or organoboron compounds - using alkyl phosphoric acid with another extraction agent, phosphines and/or phosphine-oxides. Solvent Extraction Methods used for Removal of Impurities from Nickel and/or Cobalt Containing Solutions. Appendices: patent number index company index subject index.
Paths of isomerizations of isocyanic acid HNCO into various chain isomers via ring intermediates have been investigated by ab initio MO calculations with the MRD-CI procedure employing the 6-31G** basis sets. Geometry optimizations were accomplished at the RHF, UHF, or CASSCF level of theory. It is found that the isomerization from HNCO to cyanic acid HOCN is energetically the most favorable and that it should proceed via successive 1,2-hydrogen migrations rather than by a single 1,3-hydrogen migration. The overall barrier height is calculated to be 423 kJ mol−1, which is ca. 60 kJ mol−1 higher than the critical energy for the main decomposition channel, HNCO→NH(3Σ)+CO. Implications of the results to the kinetics of the thermal decompostion of HNCO at high temperatures are discussed.
Elateriospermum tapos, known as perah tree of the family Euphorbiaceae, is a monoecious canopy species found in Southeast Asian tropical rainforests. In Malaysia, the species is abundant in lowland forests throughout the country especially in northern parts of Peninsular Malaysia. The tree is easily recognized by the reddish pink foliage during a leaf flush. The timber from the tree is hard and heavy and is used for construction and firewood. Fruits and seeds are consumed by native communities though too much of it at one time has been known to induce dizziness. The bark, leaves and fruit stalks exude copious, white and sticky latex which is used for treating cracked sole of the foot (Chai et al. 1989). Not much is known about the chemical constituents except for the presence of hydrocyanic acid in the leaves and seeds, and triterpenes such as β-amyrin palmitate, germanicol palmitate, β-amyrin acetate, germanicol acetate, ψ -taraxasterol acetate and lupeol acetate in the bark (Chow & Quon 1970). During the course of our chemical studies of Malaysian medicinal plants, we investigated the perah tree collected from the forest reserve of Forest Research Institute Malaysia (FRIM). In this paper, we report on the isolation, purification and identification of 16 compounds obtained from the leaves and wood of E. tapos. Fresh leaves and wood were separately extracted by repeated soaking in methanol at room temperature, and the methanolic extracts were suspended in water and successively extracted with tert-butyl methyl ether and ethyl acetate for the first and diethyl ether for the second. The resulting fractions tert-butyl methyl ether soluble portion, ethyl acetate soluble portion and water-soluble portion of the leaves and the water-soluble portion of the wood were each subjected to a combination of column chromatography employing Diaion HP20-SS, Sephadex LH-20, MCI gel CHP 20P, Chromatorex ODS, Toyopearl HW-40F and silica gel which led to the isolation of two flavan-3-ols, four condensed tannins, one biflavone, two cyanogenic glucosides, two aromatic glucosides, one phenylpropane, one glycerol derivative, one megastigmane, and two glycosides of secondary alcohol (Figure 1). These compounds were identified on the basis of spectroscopic and elemental analyses and comparison of their 1 H- and 13 C-NMR data with literature values or authentic samples. The two flavan-3-ols were identified as (1) catechin (Nonaka et al. 1983a) and (2) gallocatechin
Selective reaction or photodissociation of isocyanic acid (HNCO) molecules in well-characterized vibrational eigenstates is a means of controlling their chemistry. The key to the measurements is the characterization of their vibrational states by absorption spectroscopy and the determination of their reaction efficiency by action spectroscopy. Absorption spectroscopy and theoretical calculations on states in the region of three quanta of the N-H stretching excitation (3ν1) of HNCO identify couplings between the bright N-H stretching state and states that have one or more quanta of N-C-O bending excitation. Bimolecular reaction action spectroscopy, which monitors the yield of NCO from the reaction of Cl atoms with HNCO, and photodissociation action spectroscopy, which monitors the production of 1NH following S1 r S0 excitation in HNCO, measure the relative reaction and photodissociation cross sections for the mixed Vibrational eigenstates having rotational quantum numbers K ) 3 and J ) 6 and 7. The measurements and analysis show that the perturbing zero-order state is substantially less reactive than the bright state but has a photodissociation cross section that is much larger than that of the bright state. Bending excitation of N-C-O strongly influences both the reaction and photodissociation, hindering bimolecular reaction but promoting photodissociation.
The paper deals with exploration of Traditional animal health care practices of pastoralist and folk - lore communities in the Medak district of Telangana Sate. 56 healers were interviewed and recorded the methods of col lection of medicinal plants and methods of preparation of the drugs used by Pastoralist communities like Kuruma, Golla, Lambada and other folk - lore of Mudiraj, Kapu and Gouda communities. A total of 172 plant species belonging to 149 genera under 66 famili es of angiosperms are recorded. In all a total of 214 remedies were recorded for 43 veterinary disease conditions. The herbal medicines are composed of single plant drugs, two plant drugs, and three or more than three plant drugs. The herbal medicine is pr esented disease - wise alphabetically. The information includes the medicine, mode and duration of administration along with vernacular and scientific names of the plant parts and other ingredients. The common veterinary disease in Medak district for which f olk - lore herbal medicine are available for anoestrus, anorexia, bloat, bone setting, bronchitis, corneal opacity, controlling bluetongue, cuts and burns, debility, diarrhoea/ dysentery, difficulty in delivery, dog bite, dyspepsia, eye injury, fevers, foot rot, fowl pox, galactagogues, heamaturia, horn fracture, hydrocynic acid poison (tympani occurs due to consumption of poison leaves which contain hydrocyanic acid), intestinal worms, impotency in bulls, maggot or septic wounds, mastitis, paraplegia, Pest e des petites ruminant (PPR), pneumonia, postpartum haemorrhage, poultry diarrhea, retained placenta, snake bite, sprains, stomach ache, stomatitis, swelling in te stis, trypanosomiasis, tick/lice, tumors, weakness and yoke gall.
Chemical reactions stimulated by γ-radiation in liquid hydrocyanic acid (HCN) in the presence of single-walled edcarbon nanotubes (SWCNTs) have been studied. The polymerization of HCN on the surface of nanotubes occurs several times more rapidly than in pure HCN, and the set of radiolysis products becomes poorer. It is likely that the approach of polymerizing reagents on the nanosized surface is limited by specific mutual orientations. Furthermore, the CN and H radicals add to the walls of the nanotubes and the nanotubes become soluble in water, ethanol, and acids.
The chemotactic responses of Meloidogyne incognita were studied in salt gradients in an agarose gel. Forty-eight combinations of sodium, copper, cesium, manganese , barium, potassium, ferric or ammonium cations and chloride, nitrate, sulphate, hydrogen-phosphate, bicarbonate, acetic acid, thiocyanic acid and hydroxyl anions were tested at six concentrations from 0.0625 × 10-2 to 2 × 10-2 mol·L-1. M. incognita was repellented to salts that included Cl- and SCN-. Other salts that comprised the same anions had different chemotactic responses, among which M. incognita was repellented to ammonium salts that included Ba(NO3)2, NH4NO3, Mn(NO3)2, and hydrogen-phosphate salts that included KH2PO4, K2HPO4, and bicarbonate salts that included Na2CO3, K2CO3, (NH4)2CO3, KHCO3, and hydroxyl salts that included KOH, NaOH, and organic acid that included C2H4O2, C3H6O3 and C4H6O6. The repellent or attraction properties of different salts having the same cations were not consistent. The order of repellence was SCN- > NO3- > Cl- > OH- > CO32- >H2PO-4 > organic acid >SO42- . The chemotaxis of nematodes to KCl, Ba(NO3)2, NH4NO3, Mn(NO3)2, (NH4)2CO3, CH3COOH and C4H6O6 increased with the increasing concentration, while the concentration of other salts tested did not influence nematode chemotaxis significantly.
The effects of corn replacement by cassava dreg in diets of crossbred goat kids were evaluated. We tested the impacts of 0, 33, 66 and 100% replacement on intake, digestibility, feeding behaviour, performance and carcass characteristics. Thirty-six goat kids, aged between 4 and 5 months and with initial body weights of 17.61 ± 1.98 kg, were used in a completely randomised design. Analysis of regression revealed a negative linear effect on neutral detergent fibre (NDF) intake and a positive linear effect on non-fibrous carbohydrates (NFC) and hydrocyanic acids (HCN) intake. Cassava dreg use had a positive linear effect on organic matter digestibility and non-fibrous carbohydrates. Based on our results, cassava dreg use did not negatively impact animal performance, feeding behaviour and carcass characteristics, suggesting that it may replace corn up to 100% in the diets of confined goat kids.
There is a strong cultural discrimination in the consumption of white snail (Achatina achatina) against black snail (Archachatina marginata) in several tribes in Nigeria and other tropical regions in West African Countries.The proximate(crude fibre,ash,fat,protein and carbohydrates),minerals(calcium, potassium,magnesium,sodium,iron,zinc and phosphorus) and toxicants(hydrocyanic acid,phytate, total and soluble oxalate) compositions of A. achatina and A. marginata were analysed in this study to validate or reject the cultural discrimination in the consumption of these species of giant land snails. Results revealed no statistical significant differences (P � 0.05) in the proximate, mineral and toxicant compositions of A. marginata compared to A. achatina.Results indicated that both species have relatively high contents of protein, carbohydrate, calcium, potassium magnesium and sodium; and relatively low crude fibre,ash,fat,iron,zinc,phosphorus,hydrocyanic acid,phytate,total and soluble oxalate concentrations.Considering the similar proximate, minerals and toxicants compositions of A. achatina and A. marginata,there is no scientific basis or justification for any cultural discrimination in the consumption of either of the species of snails.In particular,both species are recommended as a good and alternative source of protein for consumption.
The incidence of laryngeal cancer in the German Democratic Republic was determined as 5.5 per 100,000 inhabitants. In industrial cities, however, the figures increased to 6.2 to 8.9 per 100,000 people. From these observations a screening project for high risk groups appeared reasonable. In a first attempt 424 industrial workers (366 males and 58 females) were submitted to laryngoscopy. They were employees of industrial workshops occupied with galvanization, spray painting or enameling. Depending on their job they were exposed to: ::: ::: ::: hydrocyanic acid and cyanides, ::: ::: ::: chromate compounds, ::: ::: ::: nitro dilutions, ::: ::: ::: hydrochloric acid, ::: ::: ::: phosphoric acid, ::: ::: ::: sulphuric acid, ::: ::: ::: nickel salts, ::: ::: ::: tin compounds, ::: ::: ::: trichloroethylene and other organic solvents, ::: ::: ::: aldehyde resin varnish, ::: ::: ::: benzene, toluene, xylene.
Abstract Four inter-related subjects are discussed, mainly with reference to recent investigations: (a) reactions of metal thiocyanates with organic compounds, (b) reactions of organic thiocyanates, (c) thiocyanogen, (d) thiocyanogen halides. Organic thiocyanates, R –S –C≡N, are commonly produced by reactions between various metal thiocyanates (or occasionally thiocyanic acid) and halides, sulfonates, diazonium salts, olefins, and epoxides. The products are sometimes isothiocyanates, R –N =C =S. Practical aspects of these reactions are reviewed, together with problems of structure and mechanism. Thiocyanate ion, commonly involved in the reactions, is a resonance hybrid, a nucleophilic reagent, and a pseudohalide. Fission of the R – SCN bond in organic thiocyanates is mainly exemplified by their isomerization. Fission of the S – CN bond occurs in reduction, oxidation, and reactions with alkalies and some other nucleophiles. The C≡N bond participates in addition reactions, which are often accompanied by cyclization. Chlorine or bromine displaces the SCN group from metal thiocyanates to give thiocyanogen, (SCN)2, which is a special type of disulfide and is also the outstanding example of a pseudohalogen. Its S — S bond can undergo both heterolytic and homolytic fission. Reactions with olefins and with the nucleus or side chains of aromatic compounds are discussed. From thiocyanogen, or in other ways, several compounds are obtained in which the SCN group is attached to non-metals; these include the thiocyanogen halides, which have only recently been studied. The monochloride, Cl—SCN, is reasonably stable in solution, is comparable in some respects with iodine chloride, reacts with olefins, and undergoes both heterolytic and homolytic reactions with aromatic compounds. The monobromide, Br—SCN, exists in equilibrium with bromine and thiocyanogen. The trichloride has the structure Cl—S—CCl = NCl, reacts mainly like a sulfenyl chloride, and gives rise to dichlorothiocyanato derivatives, RS—CNC12, which readily undergo further changes.
Standard soil samples contaminated with various standard cyanocompounds were prepared. Column elution experiments and analyses were conducted. Compounds with an easy capacity for dissociation to ions, such as KCN and potassium hexacyanoferrate(III), were found to be eluted by forming free cyanide even in fresh water. Hexacyanoferrate(II) salts, such as potassium hexacyanoferrate(II) and iron(III) hexacyanoferrate(II), were found not to be dissociated in water, but were dissociated and diffused under alkaline conditions (pH >13). Hexacyanoferrate(II) ion was found to be more easily dissociated in water with a higher pH. Column tests as above were also conducted for soil samples taken from a former paint ink factory using iron(III) hexacyanoferrate(II), cyanogen chloride, potassium cyanate, copper cyanide, as well as potassium cyanide, as raw materials. It was demonstrate that iron(III) hexacyanoferrate(II) was dissociated and eluted under alkaline conditions. The elution rate was reduced when the contaminated soil was sandwiched with standard soil layers.Further, it was found that the Fe(CN)(6)(4-) ion eluted with NaOH from hexacyanoferrate acid in soil, were easily decomposed into cyanic acid or other byproducts by UV with the addition of ozone and H(2)O(2).
Sixty-four Large White cross Landrace weanling pigs were randomly allotted to eight treatments in a two by four factorial arrangement. The two dietary variables were cassava peel (0 and 40 per cent) and crude protein (20, 15, 10 and 5 per cent). Total serum protein concentration was significantly (P less than 0.01) reduced by protein deficiency and by its interaction with cassava peel. The multiple coefficient of determination (R2) showed that protein intake was the primary factor determining changes in serum protein. R2 values for cyanide intake (independent variable) on serum protein (dependent variable) increased from day 30 to 90 of the trial. Serum urea was increased on the 5 per cent protein diets on days 60 and 90 of the trial. The R2 values for cyanide and protein intake on serum urea concentration increased from day 30 to day 90 of the trial. Serum creatinine increased (P less than 0.05) on the 5 per cent protein diet on day 90 of the trial. The R2 value for the effects of protein intake on serum creatinine was higher than for cyanide intake on days 30 and 90. The results confirm the progressive and pronounced effects of long term cyanide intake on serum nitrogenous metabolites in pigs consuming between 110 and 120 ppm hydrocyanic acid, especially in diets containing 10 per cent or less protein.
The reaction mechanism of Isothiocyanic Acid with GeF2 radical of the singlet has been investigated in a B3LYP method of density functional theory,QCISD(T) method,natural bond orbital(NBO) theory and topological analysis of electronic density.The geometries and harmonic vibration frequencies have been calculated at the B3LYP/6-311++G** level.And the stationary point energies were calculated at a QCISD(T)/6-311++G**//B3LYP/6-311++G** level.The calculated results show that the addition reaction pathways of the singlet GeF2 reacting with HNCS involve two feasible reaction pathways and the reaction GeF2+HNCS→IM1→TS1→HGeF2NCS(P1) was the main pathway.
The invention relates to a method for extracting aurum from difficult-to-handle sulphide ore aurum concentrate by two-segment pressurization leaching method comprising two segments of pressurization oxidation preprocessing and pressurization oxidation aurum leaching. The method comprises the steps of: firstly, pressurizing and oxidizing base metal sulfide such as iron sulfide with sulfuric acid-iron sulfate, wherein most S2- and S22- are oxidized into elemental sulfur; and secondly, pressurizing and leaching the preprocessed slag with thiocyanate so that aurum is selectively dissolved in the solution in the form of aurum-thiocyanic acid compound. Therefore, the pre-oxidation slag can be directly leached without neutralization, the technical process is short, the aurum recovery rate is high, the cost is low and pollution of low-concentration SO2 smoke gas, As2O3 smoke dust, and the like is avoided.
1. ::: 1. A method, recently developed for the distillation of cyanic acid from aqueous solutions of cyanate (see foregoing paper), has been applied to tissue suspensions. ::: ::: 2. ::: 2. Brain brei in Krebs Ringer solution (5:1 v/v was incubated at 38dg under physiological aerobic conditions, and distilled. Significant amounts of urea were found in the distillate, after incubation with NH4-ions. ::: ::: 3. ::: 3. Instead of conversion into urea of the cyanate present in distillates from tissues, the cyanate was decomposed by acidification to pH 2 at room temperature, and the N-content determined. ::: ::: 4. ::: 4. No indication of a post-mortem origin of the urea-yielding volatile substance was obtained. ::: ::: 5. ::: 5. No other volatile substance than cyanic acid is known, which distilled under the described conditions (pH 5 and at a temperature < 10°) and would yield urea in a mildly acid medium (pH 6), at relatively low temperatures (40–60°), and in short periods of time (1–3 h). ::: ::: 6. ::: 6. The following characteristics of the volatile substance are also identical with those of cyanic acid: ::: ◦ ::: a) The volatile substance could not be distilled when the acidification of tissues was omitted (pH > 7), nor after very strong acidification (pH < 2). At pH 5 regular yields were obtained. ::: ::: ◦ ::: b) None of the volatile substance in question could be distilled from tissue, incubated with an excess of ammonium ions. ::: ::: ◦ ::: c) When a pure aqueous solution of sodium cyanate was distilled, the distillate halved, and one half incubated at pH 6 with an axcess of NH4-ions, the other half without NH4-ions, the yields of urea in both halves were approximately 5 : 1. Very similar ratios were obtained in the corresponding halves of the distillates obtained from brain brei. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 7. ::: 7. Significant, though smaller yields were obtained from brain tissue, frozen in liquid air soon after the death of the animal. Possible losses of cyanate through isomerisation into urea at low temperatures are discussed. ::: ::: 8. ::: 8. More cyanate was found in brain brei after 2–3 h incubation under physiological conditions, than could be accounted for by non-specific isomerisation during the incubation from the amounts of urea present. ::: ::: 9. ::: 9. No yields were obtained from liver under conditions which gave regular yields from brain tissue. Very small yields were obtained from muscle and whole blood. ::: ::: 10. ::: 10. Incubation of brain brei suspensions with an excess of urea increased the yields of cyanate, even after short periods of incubation. The possible occurrence of urea → cyanate isomerisation in tissues is discussed. ::: ::: 11. ::: 11. The possible existence of a regulating mechanism is discussed.
The invention discloses a golden fungus gingko yellow wine. Alcoholic strength is 8-45%, general flavone content is more than or equal to 1-5 mg/L, ginkgolide is more than or equal to 1-6 mg/kg, total triterpenoid compound content is 30-800 mg/L, protein is more than or equal to 60 mg/kg, soluble sugar is less than or equal to 2.0%, gingko phenolic acid is less than or equal to 5 ppm, and hydrocyanic acid is less than or equal to 0.1 mu g/L. A double-enzyme method is adopted to hydrolyze gingko to obtain gingko hydrolysate which contains active compounds, such as ginkgo flavone, triterpenoid compound, amino acid, peptide, starch and the like, wherein the content of amino acid and peptide is more than or equal to 1%, and starch content is more than or equal to 2%. After being added with gingko leaf extract, the hydrolysate is converted by golden fungus strains, and rice koji is added to obtain fermentation liquor; the fermentation liquor is filtered and blended to obtain golden fungus gingko yellow wine. The wine contains gingko and golden fungus active ingredients and has the efficacy of preventing diabetes and hyperlipidemia, preventing oxidation and improving immunity of body.
Abstract In this work the changes in thermal degradation characteristics of polyamide 6 (PA6) in the presence of melamine (Me) or melamine cyanurate (MC) were investigated systematically via direct pyrolysis mass spectrometry. Though thermal stability of PA6 was not affected by the presence of flame retardants, the changes in the products and in their distributions were detected. The reaction of carbonyl groups of PA6 with amine groups of melamine was the main cause for the changes in the product distribution. In the presence of melamine cyanurate, new products due to the reaction of cyanic acid generated by the decomposition of cyanurate, with the amine groups of PA6 were detected. Significant increases in the evolution temperatures of melamine and melamine cyanurate in the presence of PA6 were attributed to intermolecular interactions, most probably by H-bonding, with PA6.
The paper deals with exploration of Traditional animal health care practices of pastoralist and folk-lore communities in the Medak district of Telangana Sate.56 healers were interviewed and recorded the methods of collection of medicinal plants and methods of preparation of the drugs used by Pastoralist communities like Kuruma, Golla, Lambada and other folk-lore of Mudiraj, Kapu and Gouda communities. A total of 172 plant species belonging to 149 genera under 66 families of angiosperms are recorded. In all a total of 214 remedies were recorded for 43 veterinary disease conditions. The herbal medicines are composed of single plant drugs, two plant drugs, and three or more than three plant drugs. The herbal medicine is presented disease-wise alphabetically. The information includes the medicine, mode and duration of administration along with vernacular and scientific names of the plant parts and other ingredients. The common veterinary disease in Medak district for which folk-lore herbal medicine are available for anoestrus, anorexia, bloat, bone setting, bronchitis, corneal opacity, controlling bluetongue, cuts and burns, debility, diarrhoea/ dysentery, difficulty in delivery, dog bite, dyspepsia, eye injury, fevers, foot rot, fowl pox, galactagogues, heamaturia, horn fracture, hydrocynic acid poison (tympani occurs due to consumption of poison leaves which contain hydrocyanic acid), intestinal worms, impotency in bulls, maggot or septic wounds, mastitis, paraplegia, Peste des petites ruminant (PPR), pneumonia, postpartum haemorrhage, poultry diarrhea, retained placenta, snake bite, sprains, stomach ache, stomatitis, swelling in testis, trypanosomiasis, tick/lice, tumors, weakness and yoke gall.
The chemotactic responses of Meloidogyne incognita were studied in salt gradients in an agarose gel. Forty-eight combinations of sodium, copper, cesium, manganese , barium, potassium, ferric or ammonium cations and chloride, nitrate, sulphate, hydrogen-phosphate, bicarbonate, acetic acid, thiocyanic acid and hydroxyl anions were tested at six concentrations from 0.0625 × 10 −2 to 2 × 10 −2 mol•L −1 . M. incognita was repellented to salts that included Cl − and SCN − . Other salts that comprised the same anions had different chemotactic responses, among which M. incognita was repellented to ammonium salts that
Seven isolates of bacteria , isolated from the rhizospheres of a system of rice intensification (SRI) fields, were earlier reported by us as having potential for biocontrol of charcoal rot of sorghum, caused by Macrophomina phaseolina (Tassi) Goid. and plant growth promotion (PGP) of the plant (Gopalakrishnan et al. 2011a) . Also, the selected bacterial strains produced siderophore, indole acetic acid (except SRI-305), hydrocyanic acid (except and solubilized (except SRI-360) phosphorous (Gopalakrishnan et al. 2011a ). In the SRI method of rice cultivation, certain changes are done in the agronomic practices which include the use of much younger seedlings than are normally transplanted, planting them singly and carefully in a square pattern with wide spacing in soil that is kept moist but not continuously flooded and with increased amendments of organic matter and active aeration of the soil during weed control operation preferably with mechanical weeder (Uphoff 2003) . The aim of the present study was to characterize and evaluate the PGP potential of seven SRI strains of bacteria in rice, grown under field conditions using the SRI protocols. It was also aimed to evaluate the potential of these PGP strains enhancing tolerance to salinity, pH, high temperature and resistance to antibiotics and fungicides.
Histamine and histidine are carbamoylated on the ring nitrogen (probably Nπ) in aqueous solutions of cyanic acid from pH 3 to 11. A further reaction occurs where the carbamoyl group is transferred from the ring to the amino nitrogen to form a urea; the major part of the reaction flux for this reaction passes through an intermolecular E–A process involving cyanate ion as an intermediate and not through intramolecular nucleophilic attack by amine on the Nπ-carbamoylimidazolyl function.
Abstract The cathode ray oscilloscope has been adapted for rapid qualitative analysis with the dropping or streaming mercury electrode. Provision is made so that the oscilloscope shows the potential-time curves as well as the derivative-potential curves. The potentials of cations which give distinct time-lags have been computed. Numerous organic depolarizers such as aldehydes, unsaturated compounds, nitrocompounds and quinones may be similarly determined. The method is of advantage where quick qualitative and approximative quantitative analysis of samples is concerned, e.g. in ore analysis, or especially in organic analysis for testing the purity of preparations and distinguishing isomers. Decomposition of fresh aqueous solutions of penicillin may be followed by this method of oscillographic analysis. In addition, there are several other applications of the method, e.g. rapid qualitative analysis of carbon disulphide, hydrogen sulphide, hydrocyanic acid and sulphur dioxide in the atmosphere of industrial works.
It was revealed that in renal failure hemoglobin A1 (HbA1) was formed by the binding of substances other than glucose to Hb. It was elucidated that the formation of HbA1 increased in urea-added medium and further increased in media containing urea either stored at 37 degrees C for 1 week or heated at 100 degrees C for five minutes. The increment of HbA1 was proportional to the amount of cyanic acid produced by the treatment of the medium after the addition of urea. We found that there was the best correlation between the HbA1 level and the BUN level of 1 to 2 weeks before. Therefore, it appeared that HbA1 could be an indicator of the state of renal failure of 1 to 2 weeks earlier in patients with renal failure without impaired glucose tolerance, especially in patients on hemodialysis.
The invention relates to a prepared method of 2-amino-2-methyl-1-propyl alcohol. The prepared method of the 2-amino-2-methyl-1-propyl alcohol comprises the following steps: 1) obtaining the reaction solution which contains intermediate product 4, 4-dimethyl-2-oxazoline or derivatives of the 4-dimethyl-2-oxazoline by conducting a reaction among methyl allyl alcohol and hydrocyanic acid or nitriles compounds, wherein the general formula of the nitriles compounds is R-CN; and 2) conducting a hydrolysis reaction to obtain hydrolysis reaction solution through the reaction solution which contains the intermediate product 4, the 4-dimethyl-2-oxazoline or the derivatives of the 4-dimethyl-2-oxazoline and is obtained from the step 1) after the separation and purification and/or under the condition of no separation and purification, and then reaching the total yield of more than 94% through 2-amino-2-methyl-1-propyl alcohol obtained from the alkalizing and purification procedure. The prepared method of the 2-amino-2-methyl-1-propyl alcohol can obtain the raw materials easily, is simple in reaction procedures, has no harsh reaction conditions, is low in cost and high in yield and is prone to product purification and suitable for industrialized production.
Carbamylation (carbamoylation) is a post-translational modification resulting from the nonenzymatic reaction between isocyanic acid and free functional groups of proteins, in particular with the free amino groups. This reaction alters structural and functional properties of proteins and results in faster aging of proteins. Urea present in the body can be transformed into cyanate and its more reactive form, isocyanic acid. High concentration of urea is associated with some diseases, especially with chronic renal failure and atherosclerosis. In human tissues, urea and cyanate are in equilibrium in aqueous solutions. Surprisingly, concentration of isocyanate in the body is much lower than it would appear from the kinetic parameters of urea decomposition. The low concentration of isocyanic acid results from its high reactivity and short half-life. In this review we describe the biochemical mechanism of carbamylation of proteins and free amino acids. We summarize the literature data for carbamylation of hemoglobin, lipoproteins, albumin, membrane proteins and erythropoietin in chronic renal failure. In summary, the carbamylation of proteins may have a negative impact on their biological activity and may contribute to the deterioration of patients with chronic renal failure.
An investigation of "mysterious" disease due to hydrocyanic acid (HCN) poisoning in livestock in this state was carried out. Detailed clinicopathological and pathological studies were conducted. Characteristic signs of acute tympany followed with profuse frothing, convulsions and dyspnea were recorded. Cynosis of the mucosa with characteristic anoxemic tissue changes and a high concentration of HCN in rumen content, feed and skeletal muscles were recorded. These were sufficient to establish the diagnosis. Successful treatment with a specific antidote was achieved, and further morbidity and mortality was checked.
Abstract The optimized geometries, energies of the possible conformers of allantoin (2,5-dioxo-4-imidazolidinyl urea, the diureide of glyoxylic acid) as well as the barriers for conformational interconversion have been calculated using the density functional theory [DFT(B3LYP)/6-311++G(d,p)] method. The calculations predicted the existence of four conformers ( gC , tT , g′C , and g′T ; where the first and second symbols in the name of the conformers designate the conformation around the exocyclic NHC–NHCO and CNH–CO axes, respectively), with the gC form contributing to more than 98% of the population in gas phase at room temperature. This conformer is different from that corresponding to the monomeric unit found in crystalline RS -allantoin ( g′C ; Mootz, D. Acta Crystallogr. 1965 , 19 , 726), stressing the importance of intermolecular H-bonding in determining the structure of the crystal. Upon sublimation under vacuum (10 −6 mbar), the compound was found to undergo extensive decomposition to urea, isocyanic acid, NH 3 , and carbon. The identification of the decomposition products was made by using matrix isolation infrared spectroscopy. In consonance with the theoretical predictions, the allantoin molecules surviving thermal decomposition were found to undergo conformational isomerization and be present in the cryogenic argon matrix in both the gC and g′C conformations. The solid state room temperature infrared spectrum of allantoin was also investigated and assigned.
The geometrical structure and binding energy of all the possible heterodimers of isothiocyanic acid (HNCS) with disulfur monoxide (SSO) have been studied in the gas phase, theoretically. Nine minima (with no imaginary frequencies) are located on the singlet potential energy surface of the HNCS–SSO system at the MP2 level with binding energies (corrected with ZPE and BSSE) in the range 5.53–19.12 kJ/mol. Bader's quantum theory of atoms in molecules has been employed to elucidate the intermolecular interaction characteristics of the HNCS–SSO system. All intermolecular interactions in the HNCS–SSO system are weak interactions of non-covalent without any covalent characters.
Selective catalytic reduction (SCR) of NOx by AdBlue and NH3 on monolithic V2O5/WO3/TiO2 catalyst was studied under flow conditions realistic for diesel exhaust. The tests provided same standard and fast SCR for AdBlue and NH3 from 150 to 350 °C. For standard urea-SCR, axial concentration profiles were checked by monoliths with different lengths evidencing incomplete conversion of urea and isocyanic acid at low temperatures. But SCR was not clearly affected by under-stoichiometric NH3 as substantiated by kinetic analysis. However, above 250 °C, SCR was limited by internal mass transport indicated by Weisz-Prater criterion and lower activation barrier. Formation of deposits was investigated at 175 °C and below showing some urea around the nozzle, whereas cyanuric acid and biuret additionally formed around the catalyst.
Electric and magnetic properties obtained from CCSD(T)/(aug-)cc-pCVXZ (X=T, Q, or 5) electronic structure calculations are reported for isocyanic acid, HNCO, cyanic acid, HOCN, fulminic acid, HCNO, and isofulminic acid, HONC, in their ground electronic states. Comparison of the theoretical results with the available experimentally derived values shows very satisfactory agreement. The new data should be helpful for the identification of these molecules due to characteristic hyperfine structure patterns in their microwave spectra. A brief discussion of the electronic structure properties, based on the electric field gradients, Mulliken population analysis of the total electron density, and molecular orbitals, is provided for the four CHNO isomers and the related HCN/HNC system.
This chapter discusses esters of cyanic acid that are referred to as cyanates. It has been found that purified cyanates are stable for several weeks. They can be recrystallized and in some cases, they can even be distilled. The reactions may be carried out in acetone or other solvents such as ether, carbon tetrachloride, benzene, acetonitrile, or ethyl acetate. The cyanogen halides used may be either cyanogen chloride or—if a higher boiling point or higher reaction temperature is desired—cyanogen bromide. Convenient laboratory methods for preparation involve the reaction of alkyl halides or dialkyl sulfate with inorganic cyanates such as silver cyanate. Urethanes decompose either thermally or in the presence of phosphorus pentachloride. A process has been patented for preparing isocyanates by the reaction of nitro compounds with carbon monoxide in the presence of a rhodium oxide catalyst. The chapter discusses a process that has also been reported for preparing aromatic isocyanates by the reaction of aromatic nitro compounds with carbon monoxide in alcohol solution to first form the urethanes. Thermal decomposition of the urethane gives the isocyanate.
A stable Zn-Cu/TiCl_3 system is applied,after being compared with other Mcmurry catalyst systems,to prepare (6aR)-1,3-dibenzyl-4-(4-methoxycarbonylbutyl)-dihydro-thieno[3,4-d] imidazole-2-one(Ⅵ) as a precursor to d-biotin.By treatment of (4R)-carboxy-(2S)-phenylthiazolidine(Ⅱ) with isocyanic acid benzyl ester in CH_3COOH/(CH_3CO)_2O system,the reaction time is shortened from 17 h to 3 h,and the yield of (7aR)-3-phenyl-1H,3H-imidazo[1,5-c] thiazole-(6H, 7aH) 5,7-dione(Ⅲ) is raised from 75% to 93%.Thus,from L-cysteine hydrochloride by treatment with benzaldehyde and isocyanic acid benzyl ester sequentially,Ⅲ is formed and converted into N, N′-dibenzyl-mercaptomethylhydatoin (Ⅳ) via reduction with zinc at 90 ℃.The carboxybutyl chain of biotin is introduced via esterification of Ⅳ with monomethyl adipate chloride to form a compound Ⅴ.Reaction of Ⅴ with Zn-Cu/TiCl_3 system gives readily Ⅵ,and the requisite biotin skeletal structure is established.Overall yield of the five steps reaches 56%.
The present invention relates to a method for producing clean D, L- methionine (methionine), was prepared potassium cyanide (potassium cyanide) absorbs Hydrocyanic acid (hydrocyanic acid) in the crystal mother liquid containing potassium carbonate in the absorbing solution, the potassium cyanide solution of 3-methylthio-propionaldehyde (3-methylthio-propionaldehyde), ammonium bicarbonate (ammonium bicarbonate) solution of 5- (methylthio β- acetate) to 3 to 15 minutes of reaction at 50 to 150 ℃ hydantoin (5 - (β-methylthioethyl) hydantoin) obtaining a solution, and the 5- (β- methyl thioethyl) to raise the temperature of the hydantoin mixture to 140 to 220 ℃ proceeds for 2 to 15 minutes again saponification reaction, the saponification is complete, proceed after the extraction and use the temperature lowered to from 0 to 40 ℃, an organic solvent and water (water phase) after the neutralization and crystallization with CO Was filtered to produce D, and then to rise to 110 to 160 ℃ the temperature of L- methionine crystal mother liquid to remove the CO The process of the present invention is a clean production process is continuous and does not have waste water and waste gas occurs by default.
In numerable medicinal plants are commercially propagated through tissue culture for large production of elite material (Rhizome buds of Lasia spinosa {Lour.}). Thwaites could be induced on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with different concentrations and combinations of kinetin (kin) and 6-benzyl amino purine (BAP) alone and in combination with Naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). Lasia is one of the traditionally important plants of Assam, which is employed in the treatment of gastrointestinal diseases, respiratory diseases and skin infections. This plant is also a rich source of dietary fibers, reported containing polyphenols, ascorbic acid and hydrocyanic acid. The present study aimed to establish producible protocol for in vitro regeneration of Lasia spinosa using rhizome bud explants. For shoot proliferation, among the various concentrations, 3.0 mgL 
Microbial growth and metabolism shorten the shelf life of milk by producing undesirable changes in aroma and taste attributes that influence consumer acceptability of the products (Fromm & Boor, 2004) . Factors limiting milk stability are well established: bacterial contamination (Kabir & Niar, 2013) , inadequate packaging system (Singh et al., 2012) and improper temperature control (Ben Moussa, Mankai, Ben Fekih, & Hassouna, 2013) . Vulnerability of milk's fat and protein to physical-chemical alterations can also lead to deterioration, thus, reducing its quality. Cromie (1991) reported that the factors which influence the shelf life of pasteurized milk include the quality of the raw material, the binomial temperature/time pasteurization, resistant microorganisms to pasteurization (particularly Psychrotrophic), the presence and activity of post pasteurization contaminants, the packaging system and storage temperature post pasteurization which had the greatest impact on the stability of the product as shelf life of pasteurized milk. Extra cellular lipolytic enzymes produced from psychrotrophics can produce deteriorate effects as rancid flavours and odours in milk and dairy products that make a subsequent reduction of shelf-life and the products become unacceptable to consumers (Downey, 1980) . The proteolytic enzymes produced by psycrotrophics in milk are more powerful in its action on milk proteins than that naturally present in milk and that produced by leucocytes even if present by great amount (Grieve & Kitchen, 1985) . Pseudomonas spp. produces a large number of extracellular toxins, which include phytotoxic factor, pigments, hydrocyanic acid, proteolytic enzymes (Baglinière et al., 2013) , phospholipase and enterotoxins. Exotoxins are responsible for Pseudomonas spp. pathogenicity because it can produce leucopoenia, circulatory collapse, necrosis of liver, pulmonary edema, hemorrhage and kidney tubular necrosis. The enterotoxin produced is responsible for diarrhea disease.
The optimized geometries, energies of the possible conformers of allantoin (2,5-dioxo-4-imidazolidinyl urea, the diureide of glyoxylic acid) as well as the barriers for conformational interconversion have been calculated using the density functional theory [DFT(B3LYP)/6-311þþG(d,p)] method. The calculations predicted the existence of four conformers (gC, tT, g 0 C, and g 0 T; where the first and second symbols in the name of the conformers designate the conformation around the exocyclic NHC-NHCO and CNH-CO axes, respectively), with the gC form contributing to more than 98% of the population in gas phase at room temperature. This conformer is different from that corresponding to the monomeric unit found in crystalline RS-allantoin (g 0 C; Mootz, D. Acta Crystallogr. 1965, 19, 726), stressing the importance of intermolecular H-bonding in determining the structure of the crystal. Upon sublimation under vacuum (10 À6 mbar), the compound was found to undergo extensive decomposition to urea, isocyanic acid, NH 3 , and carbon. The identification of the decomposition products was made by using matrix isolation infrared spectroscopy. In consonance with the theoretical predictions, the allantoin molecules surviving thermal decomposition were found to undergo conformational isomerization and be present in the cryogenic argon matrix in both the gC and g 0 C conformations. The solid state room temperature infrared spectrum of allantoin was also investigated and assigned.
Allantoin (2,5-dioxo-4-imidazolidinyl urea; C 4 H 6 N 4 O 3 ; Fig. 1 ) is also called 5-ureidohydantoin or glyoxyldiureide and is the diureide of glyoxylic acid. It is a product of purine metabolism and known since long ago to exist in nature, for example, in allantoic and amniotic fluids, in fetal urine and in many plants and bacteria. [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] Allantoin is active in skin-softening and rapid skin cells regeneration. It removes corneocytes by loosening the intercellular kit or the desmosomes (protein bridges) that maintain the adhesion of corneocytes to each other. It then exfoliates dry and damaged cells and boosts the radiant appearance of the skin, whose surface becomes smoother and softer. Due to these properties, allantoin has been used in cosmetic industry in several forms (e.g., lotions, creams, suntan products, shampoos, lipsticks, and various aerosol preparations), as well as in topical pharmaceutical preparations for treatment of skin diseases for many years. 4, [9] [10] [11] From a more fundamental perspective, allantoin is also an interesting compound, in which different types of intra-and intermolecular H-bond interactions can be expected to be relevant in determining its structural preferences, spectroscopic properties, and reactivity. In particular, the fragmentation reactions exhibited by the compound appeared to us particularly appealing for investigation since the structure of the allantoin ring, with two sequential -C(]O)-N(H)-fragments, looked a good candidate to act as a precursor of isocyanic acid, a well known biologically pernicious substance that can easily react with amino terminus residues of proteins (or side chains of lysine and arginine residues) to form carbamoylated proteins, which have been observed in several states of disease. [12] [13] [14] [15] Indeed, 1-phenyl-tetrazolone, which has structural similarities to allantoin possessing a single -C(]O)-N(H)-fragment in its heterocyclic ring has been recently shown to decompose easily to phenylazide and isocyanic acid. 16 In spite of both its many applications and expected interesting molecular properties and reactivity, allantoin has not yet been much studied from the structural point of view, though many publications describe procedures for its analytical determination, in particular in a biochemical context. [17] [18] [19] [20] The molecule has a chiral center and may then exist as R-and S-enantiomeric forms. Contrary to what happens for the enantiomerically pure substance, for which no crystal data has yet been reported, the crystalline structure of RS-allantoin was obtained by X-ray diffraction. 21 The crystal was found to belong to the P2 1 /c space group (a¼8.024, b¼5.153, c¼14.797 Å, b¼93.01 ), with four molecules in the unit cell, exhibiting an intricate three-dimensional H-bond network in which the three carbonyl oxygens, three imido, and two amino hydrogen atoms take part. The monomeric unit in the crystal was found to have the C 4 -N 10 -C 11 -O 14 axis in the cis conformation and a conformation around the C 4 -N 10 bond that directs the O 14 atom to above the heterocyclic ring, so that the molecule assumes a 'scorpion like' geometry. 21 Kahn and Tipton 22 performed simple HF/6-31G(d,p) calculations on the isolated molecule of allantoin and reported the existence of four different conformers, with the form similar to the monomeric structure found in the RS-allantoin crystal being the second most stable one. According to the HF/6-31G(d,p) calculations, the most stable conformer (by 12.8 kJ mol À1 ) has also a cis C 4 -N 10 -C 11 -O 14 axis, but in this case the ureido group is directed toward the outside part of the molecule. Two additional conformers of higher energy bearing a trans C 4 -N 10 -C 11 -O 14 fragment were also described by Kahn and Tipton. 22 NMR data 22 showed that in solution of both DMSO or CHCl 3 allantoin should exist in a conformation with a cis C 4 -N 10 -C 11 -O 14 axis as well, though no precise identification of the relevant form could be undertaken. Previously reported reactivity studies on allantoin have focused mainly on its racemization reaction. 22, 23 To the best of our knowledge, no further structural or spectroscopic studies were reported on allantoin hitherto. In the present investigation, we performed a detailed study of the potential energy surface of allantoin using the density functional theory (DFT) approach and investigated the thermal fragmentation of the compound taking place upon sublimation. The identification of the decomposition products was made by using matrix isolation infrared spectroscopy. In addition, we obtained and assigned the room temperature infrared spectrum of the compound. This enabled us to obtain further information on the most relevant intermolecular interactions that stabilize the g 0 C conformer in this phase over the thermodynamically most stable gC conformer.
Objective: ::: In order to provide reference for developing cassava leaves as feed resources nutritional components in leaves of cassava wild species and cultivars were studied. ::: ::: Method: ::: Nutritional components including crude lipid, crude protein, soluble sugar, starch, carotenoid and HCN contents in functional leaves of eight cassava germplasms (three cassava wild species and five cultivars) were determined. The expression levels of proteases (UGPase, AGPase, GBSSI and Linamarase) were determined using Western blotting method. ::: ::: Result: ::: Among eight cassava germplasms，wild species Manihot cecropiaefolia Phhl contained the highest starch content in functional leaves, which was 2.5 g/100 gDW, the highest soluble sugar content which was 30.0 g/100 gDW and the highest carotenoid content which wsa 91.9 mg/100 gFW, but protein and hydrocyanic acid contents were at moderate level. Cultivar SC9 contained moderate protein and soluble sugar contents in functional leaves，and the lowest HCN content which was 167 mg/kgFW. According to Western blotting analysis，expression levels of key enzymes, UGPase, AGPase and GBSSI, for sugar and starch metabolic pathway were the highest in M. cecropiaefolia Phhl; while key enzyme Linamarase for SC9 HCN metabolic pathway was the lowest. Expression levels of all proteins were in accordance with related physiological indexes variation trend. Principal component analysis revealed that, the cassava germplasms with high starch and soluble sugar content in leaf were tend to contain low crude lipid content; and the ones with high soluble sugar, crude protein and carotenoid contents would contain low HCN content. ::: ::: Conclusion: ::: Comprehensive nutritional value of functional leaves in cassava wild species M. cecropiaefolia Phhl is high, which may be developed as feed resources for livestock and silkworm. HCN content in cultivar SC9 fresh leaf is low, thus it can be used as feed for silkworm.
Hydrocyanic acid gas fumigation was discovered in 1886. From 1886–1893 it underwent decided improvement as a fumigant for citrus trees; 1893–1900, greenhouse, nursery stock, stored products and mill fumigation were introduced; 1907–08, orchard fumigation was standardized; 1910–13, sodium cyanide displaced potassium cyanide; 1912, portable machine generator invented; 1913–14, vacuum fumigation developed; 1916, liquid hydrocyanic acid first used for fumigating; 1923, calcium cyanide dust experimented with as fumigant.
PURPOSE: To obtain an aliphatic isocyanate useful as a raw material of urethanes and polyurethanes, etc., by forming an aliphatic urea from a primary aliphatic amine and isocyanic acid and reacting the urea with a dialkyl amine followed by thermal treatment. CONSTITUTION: A primary aliphatic mono-, di- or polyamine of the formula R(NH 2 ) n (wherein R is 1-20C alkyl; and n is 1-4) is reacted with isocyanic acid at -30-200°C in a solvent to obtain an aliphatic mono-, di- or polyurea of the formula R(NHCONH 2 ) n . This urea is then reacted with a di(1-8C alkyl) amine at 50-200°C in a solvent to obtain mono-, di- or poly (dialkyl) urea of the formula R(NHCONR'R"), (wherein R' and R" are each 1-8C aliphatic). Subsequent thermal decomposition of the compound in a solvent in the presence of a reaction promoter (e.g. pyridine hydrochloride) at 50-220°C gives the desired product of the formula R(NCO) n . As a solvent in each step is employed toluene, chlorobenzene, etc. COPYRIGHT: (C)1991,JPO
We present a technique for improving fragmentation in tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) of arginine-containing peptides by derivatising the N-termini with the tris(2,4,6-trimethoxyphenyl)phosphonium acetyl group (TMPP-Ac), followed by the conversion of arginine to citrulline with peptidyl arginine deiminase. Owing to the use of enzyme reaction, the deimination occurred specifically at arginine residues and proceeded under mild conditions (at 55 °C and pH 7.4, for 3 h). Although the TMPP-Ac-tagged arginine-containing peptides undergo fragmentation to give spectra not informative enough to obtain sequence data, the deimination to yield the corresponding citrulline-containing peptides has greatly enhanced the performance of matrix assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) MS/MS by limiting the observation of fragment peaks to those of a-type ions. Additional information available to interpret the fragment patterns for sequencing includes the subsidiary but characteristic appearance of peaks due to the −17 Da and −43 Da neutral losses of ammonia and isocyanic acid, respectively, from a-type ions.
The invention relates to a method for carbonization and / or graphitization of oxidized polyacrylonitrile (PAN) in an inert atmosphere, wherein the released hydrogen cyanide (HCN) by reacting in a cyanide (RCN) is collected. It is based on the object of further developing such a process as to which is to handle the cyanide gained easier to transport and store. This object is achieved in that the hydrocyanic acid with an alkali metal hydroxide or an alkaline earth metal hydroxide (ROH) in the corresponding cyanide (RCN) is reacted, and the reaction in a released gaseous hydrogen cyanide, an aqueous alkali or alkaline earth metal hydroxide, carried water and cyanide nuclei comprehensive, fluidized by a gaseous medium fluidized bed (14) in which the cyanide is obtained as granular solids.
Certain 2,5-dihydroxypyrazines and related systems undergo 1,4-cycloaddition reactions. Dimethyl acetylenedicarboxylate reacts to give bicyclic adducts which readily undergo a retro-Diels-Alder reaction with elimination of cyanic acid and formation of substituted pyridones. 5-Ethoxy-1,3-dimethylpyrazin-2-one (16) has been synthesised and shown to undergo ready cycloaddition reactions even with non-activated double bonds. The implications of these reactions relative to the biosynthesis of the mould metabolite brevianamide A and related compounds are discussed.
Cassava and Sweet Potato fresh pulps were characterized for their physico‐chemical properties and were tested in cake making with the addition of little or no wheat flour. The pulps consisted of water (64.3, 69.13), starch (21.18, 18.57), sugars (6.08, 7.14) and ash (0.72, 0.62)% respectively. They had less than 2% of either crude protein or fibre. Baking reduced the hydrocyanic acid in cassava pulp from 38.26 to 17.15 mg/kg. Sweet potato had none. Gelatinization and cake quality were influenced by the type and quantity of starch present. Pulpy recipes required less sugar, shortening, eggs and baking powder; producing cheaper cakes of acceptable eating quality, but of lower organoleptic preference than wheat flour cakes. Blanching instead of sulphiting sweet potato pulp to control enzymatic browning produced inferior cakes. Adjustment of pulp pH to 4.0 with acetic acid was necessary to increase cake shelf life to at least 5 days, thus affording commercial feasibility to the new technique.
Bœdeker ( Annalen , 123, 61), by the action of potassium cyanide on bismuth nitrate, obtained a reddish-brown salt, to which he assigned the formula Bi 2 O 5 .2H 2 O. In an examination of the oxides of bismuth in conjunction with Hoffmeister and Robbs ( Chem. Soc. Jour., 1881; Proc. , p. 21), I had occasion to prepare Bœdeker's salt; a slight study of its properties proved it to be a compound of no little interest. When a concentrated aqueous solution of potassium cyanide is added to a solution of metallic bismuth in excess of nitric acid, and the mixture is boiled, a brownish-red solid and a more or less dark red liquid are obtained, and quantities of hydrocyanic acid are evolved. When the excess of nitric acid is nearly neutralised by potash before addition of potassium cyanide, the colour of the solid is a much lighter brown, and the supernatant liquid is nearly or quite colourless.
The present invention relates to the process for refining acetonitrile with a pervaporation method, comprising the steps of separating the crude acetonitrile by decyanation tower, discharging most light components including hydrocyanic acid, oxazole and acrylonitrile from the top of tower, discharging part of water and heavy organics from the tower reactor, extracting the azeotrope of acetonitrile-water from the lower side of stripping section of decyanation tower into the chemical processing reactor for alkali additive processing, the aqueous acetonitrile removed free hydrocyanic acid through alkali additive processing passing steam and heat exchange of the preheater and the high-purity acetonitrile into the evaporator, removing heavy components in the bottom of reactor, removing the aqueous acetonitrile steamed from the evaporator into the pervaporation membrane separator, which permeate side connects with the vacuum system, condensing the penetrant by the condenser into the permeating tank, obtaining the high-purity acetonitrile through the interception side of pervaporation membrane separator, to be successively condensed by the preheater and the finished condenser into the product tank. The present invention has simple process, low investment in equipment, small occupied area and high utilization ratio of energy.
Post Hartree–Fock and DFT calculations have been performed for studying the possibility for a benzene support to be linked to various hydrides through a quasi Bz···HA bond. Interaction energy of compounds, including CH bonds (CH4, CH3F, CH2O, CHN, CHNO), NH bonds (NH3, NH2F, NHC, NHCO, NH3O), and OH bonds (OH2, OHF, NCOH), were evaluated, taking basis set superposition error (BSSE) and zero point vibrational energy (ZPVE) corrections into account. Numerical convergence of results with respect to the ingredients included at different steps of theory (basis set, DFT functionals, correlation treatments, geometry optimization) was tested mainly on the example of the water adduct and, for comparison, the Bz···H3O+ system containing a cation instead of a neutral molecule. A rather large range of adsorption energies is obtained, from about 1 kcal/mol for methane to more than 6 kcal/mol for cyanic acid, according to the acidic character of the adsorbed species in each family of Bz···HA bonds. Some consequences for astrophysical problems involving PAHs in the interstellar medium are pointed out. © 2007 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Int J Quantum Chem, 2008
Chemistry ::: Fire has alternately salvaged and savaged human beings since the dawn of civilization. It's rather remarkable, after so much time, that the combustion process still holds mysteries for chemists to probe. One such mystery is unraveling the extraordinarily complex composition of the smoke-borne by-products that accompany release of the primary products, water and carbon dioxide. Among these by-products are a range of highly reactive small molecules that may cause physiological damage upon inhalation. Roberts et al. chart the abundance of one such molecule, isocyanic acid, by systematically probing the product stream of controlled laboratory biomass fires using a mass spectrometric technique especially sensitive to acids (negative-ion proton-transfer chemical ionization). In addition to documenting concentrations from these laboratory experiments of 600 parts per billion by volume, the authors detect hundreds of parts per trillion of the compound in urban Los Angeles air and in Boulder, Colorado, air after a wildfire. They furthermore estimate significant aqueous solubility of the compound at physiological pH, based on a Henry's Law partitioning measurement. Because previous studies have implicated isocyanic acid and its conjugate base in inflammation effects associated with protein carbamylation, the authors urge further study of the compound's exposure impact. ::: ::: Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 108 , 8966 (2011).
Fragmentation of protonated amides in mass spectrometry at the CC(O) bond, which competes with the C(O)N bond cleavage, was observed when the amide group is conjugated with an unsaturated moiety. In the case of N-methylbenzamides bearing different substituents, this reaction gives rise to protonated methyl isocyanate and protonated benzenes. The kinetic method was applied to this reaction in spite of the fact that this is a fragmentation of a molecular species (rather than proton-bound dimers). A correlation is established between the intensities of the two product ions and the proton affinities (PAs) of the corresponding fragment molecules, which is similar to that when the kinetic method is used in the determination of PAs on proton-bound dimers. This result provides strong evidence that the reaction proceeds via a proton-bound methyl isocyanate/benzene complex intermediate. In addition, the PA of isocyanic acid, which is involved in the fragmentation of unsubstituted benzamide, is compared with that of benzene and a downward revised value, 175 kcal/mol, is recommended. Copyright © 2004 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Abstract : Object: One of the objects of project A 3.3-1 is to reinvestigate the toxicity of cyanogen chloride under the latest conditions for conducting animal experimentation and establish the minimum lethal concentration for 2 minutes, for 10 minutes, and for 30 minutes. The object of the work described in this report was to synthesize pure cyanogen chloride, to study the literature pertaining to its wartime use and to its stability and chemical constitution, to determine its median lethal concentration for white mice exposed for 2 minutes, 10 minutes, and 30 minutes and observed for 10 days, and to compare the value of cyanogen chloride as a war gas with phosgene and hydrocyanic acid.
Wild species of Manibot are progenitors of cassava. They constitute valuable genetic reservoirs with genes of new characters. Screening these species showed some of them to have a notably high percentage of protein combined with a low percentage of hydrocyanic acid. Study of natural habitats revealed toxicity and adaptation to cool temperature. Hybridizations between different wild Manibot species and cassava have been carried out and hybrids were obtained, some of which showed high root productivity and resistance to stem borers. Polyploid types were produced by manipulation of 2 n gametes. Apomixis was discovered in the wild and transferred successfully to the cultivate.
Infrared spectra of 5-membered N- and N,S-heterocyclic derivatives such as triazoles, tetrazoles, thiazoles, thiadiazoles, thiatriazoles, and dithiazoles have been examined and empirical assignments have been made. The spectra of the two dithiazolidine derivatives, isoperthiocyanic acid and oxidation product of dithiobiuret, have been studied in detail. Assignments for benzthiazole derivatives are reported. The CH out-of-plane deformation bands of benzene rings fused to five-membered heterocyclic rings have been found to be in the region 760–740 cm−1, characteristic of four adjacent benzenoid hydrogen atoms.
Abstract The thermal decomposition of a high-energy oxidizer viz., guanylurea dinitramide (GUDN) has been studied by non-isothermal thermogravimetry (TG) and thermogravimetry combined with mass spectrometry (TG-MS). Isoconversional method of Vyazovkin (VZ) was used to investigate the dependence of activation energy ( E a ) on conversion (α). A strong dependence of E a on α, where the E a increases steadily for up to an α of ∼0.6 followed by a marginal increase and reaches ∼435.0 kJ mol −1 at the end of the reaction. E a has also been determined for GUDN using Kissinger’s method. A comparison of the results from Kissinger and isoconversional method shows that the activation energies from these methods are comparable. Using the model free isoconversional method, the isothermal conversion as a function of time at two different temperatures was also computed. The evolved gases during the decomposition of GUDN were analyzed by TG-MS which revealed the formation of ions corresponding to N 2 , O 2 , NH 3 , H 2 O, N 2 , NO, methane diimine, isocyanic acid, N 2 O, NO 2 and urea.
A summary of biological information on Prunus virginiana L. and P. serotina Ehrh., and a key to native Prunus growing in Canada are presented. The two Prunus species treated here are native to Canada and ingestion of plant material, other than ripe fruit, by livestock or people may lead to hydrocyanic acid poisoning.
Plant growth promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) are commonly used as inoculants for improving the growth and yield of agricultural crops. Development of an effe ctive PGPR inoculant necessitates the presence of a diverse set of traits that can help in colonization of the rhizosphere and survival under varying environmental conditions. Thus the present study focuses on the s creening of effective PGPR isolates with multiple t raits related to biocontrol of phytopathogenic fungi. In the present study, 51 Pseudomonas isolates from the rhizospheric soil samples of different crops were s creened initially on the basis of their antagonisti c activity, and fifteen fluorescence Pseudomonas spp. designated FP1-FP15 were selected for further study. These isolates were then tested in vitro for specific PGPR traits such as the production of phosphate solubilizing enzymes, Indole Acetic Acid (IAA), siderophores, Hydrocyanic acid (HCN), salicylic acid, hydrolytic enzymes and biosurfactants. Of the 15 isolates, FP6 was found to be promising for all PGPR attributes. The intrinsic antibiotic test showed that FP6 isolate w as resistant to tetracycline (30µg/ml), erythromyci n (15µg/ml), cotrimoxazole (30µg/ml) and chloramphenicol (30µg/ml). Two secondary metabolites 2,4Diacetylphloroglucinol (DAPG) and phenazine were identified through thin layer chromatography. Inocula tion of cowpea seeds with the FP6 isolate significantly enhanced seed germination, seedling vigor index, pl ant height, fresh weight and dry weight in comparison w ith the control. Results of this study provide comprehensive information on the biocontrol mechanism of the isolate FP6 that can be used as an effect ive biocontrol agent.
The formation of HNCO and NH4OCN was studied over unsupported Pd, Ir, and Pt-10% Rh catalysts. The reactions studied are 2NO + 3CO + 2H2 → NH4OCN + 2CO2, 2NO + 4CO + H2 → 2HNCO + 2CO2, and 2NO + 2NH3 + 4CO + H2 → 2NH4OCN + 2CO2. The yields of NH4OCN in the first reaction were 97% for the Pt-10% Rh catalyst. The best yield of HNCO in the second reaction was 75% over the Ir catalyst, with an additional 22% of the NO reacting according to the first reaction, for an overall NO → NCO conversion of 86%. The third reaction was carried out with a yield of 86% over Pt-10% Rh. These reactions may be attractive synthetic routes to ammonium cyanate, or its isomer urea, and to isocyanic acid or its trimer isocyanuric acid. The effects of H2O and H2 in the inlet gas of the reaction were found to depend on the temperature and on the H2OH2 ratio. The results were explained by a reaction scheme which places central importance on the adsorbed NCO intermediates. Hydrogenation and hydrolysis of NCO are shown to lead to HNCO and NH3. It is argued that the mechanistic reaction scheme presented accounts for the observed product distributions for Pt, Rh, Ru, Os, and Cu-Ni in addition to Pd, Ir, and Pt-10% Rh.
The mass spectrometric behavior of lithiated derivatives of 2,5-disubstituted-1,3,4-oxadiazoles has confirmed the skeletal rearrangement presented earlier for protonated derivatives. In the case of [M + H]+ ions the loss of isocyanic acid was observed and for [M + Li]+ ions the loss of lithium isocyanate occurred. On the other hand, benzoyl ions [RCO]+ were formed from [M + H]+ ions, but not from [M + Li]+ ions. Formation of benzoyl ions was in agreement with the differences between bond orders calculated for [M+H]+ ions and neutral molecules. From [M + Li]+ ions the [RCNLi]+ fragment ions were formed, but the formation of [RCNH]+ fragment ions from [M + H]+ ions was not observed. This result can be explained on the basis of theoretically calculated stabilities of these fragment ions, since the calculated heats of formation of [RCNLi]+ ions were found to be substantially lower than those of the respective [RCNH]+ ions.
1,2 Under the current scenario, there is a growing interest in developing advanced engines with robust emission control strategies for fuel efficiency and treating nitrogen oxides (NOx), respectively. Although recent advances in engine designs have been quite impressive, designing high performance materials to control NOx emissions in compliance with new regulations is still ongoing. Selective catalytic reduction (SCR) has emerged as a robust management tool for treating NOx effectively. The first commercial inception of SCR in automobiles began in 2005 and required plenty of urea on-board. Though urea-SCR exhibited high NOx remediation efficiency, it suffered from technical challenges largely due to the airless system causing secondary emission of isocyanic acid. Since then, ammonia-SCR (NH 3 -SCR) has been considered as a viable alternate to overcome issues from urea usage. 35 The first generation SCR catalyst was based on vanadium, tungsten and titanium oxides, and found more suitable for treating emissions from stationary sources. As the catalyst in stationary sources is placed within a heat recovery steam generator, their hydrothermal stability was considered critical. During the conventional inception of SCR technology for treating NOx the hydrothermal stability of zeolites had not been fully explored and metal oxides were considered superior in this regard. Therefore, metal oxides found effective usage for the SCR of NOx from stationary sources. However, the durability of these metal oxides is seemingly inferior to zeolites in treating emissions from automobile sources as the latter's activity is better over a broad temperature window and are very tolerant to secondary emissions. Therefore, the second generation SCR system was based on zeolite catalysts i.e. metal exchanged zeolites such as Cu or Fe for the effective reduction of NOx from automobile sources. 3, 6 Since the pioneering work of Barrer in the mid 20th century on the synthesis and adsorption properties of zeolites, 710 the field of zeolite science has grown massively, with its industrial usage exceeding one billion tons and discovery of new structures every year. Owing to their structural uniqueness, zeolites are involved in a wide range of industrial applications such as catalysis, ion-exchange and molecular sieving which makes the design of new topologies particularly appealing. Among wide ranging application potentials, catalysis is one of the most sought after properties. Especially, its role in the selective catalytic reduction of NOx with ammonia (NH 3 -SCR of NOx) is of paramount significance for safeguarding the environment by treating effluent gas from automobiles and reducing air pollution. The commercial exploitation of copper (Cu) metal exchanged SSZ-13 zeolite with chabazite (CHA) structure as an automotive exhaust catalyst is a well-known example. 11, 12 Nevertheless, the SSZ-13 with an almost monopolized SCR market has been proven vulnerable to structural collapse as well as severe loss in NOx reduction ability, due to the formation of copper oxides at high temperatures. 13, 14 Also, investigations of the qualitative and quantitative analysis of Cu species in SSZ-13 revealed how their hydrothermal stability and SCR activity is significantly affected by the type of Cu, their loading and interactions. 15, 16 The interactions of the Cu species are thought to be influenced by various factors from cold start to high temperature exhaust conditions. These hypotheses inspired several groups to investigate every possible factor from material synthesis to NH 3 -SCR of NOx reactions to envisage how the activities of these materials are related to Cu species. 1723 Primary investigations by different groups have revealed that there exist two types of Cu species in Cu-zeolite under ambient and oxidized conditions. 1820 In this regard, Clemens et al. reported details of how external CuO driven by the NH 3 -SCR reaction (as a function of time on stream) increases the Cu(I) and Cu(II) species within the zeolite (SSZ-13) pores and therefore enhance their SCR activity. 21 Further, Pereda-Ayo et al. noted that the SCR activity of Cu zeolite catalysts varied based on the type of Cu species involved. While the CuO species favored low-temperature deNOx, the isolated Cu 2+ species were found to aid high temperature NOx conversion. 22 In a recent study, in situ DRIFTS and TPSR were used to investigate SCR reaction pathways and active intermediates. This gave insights on how NH 3 adsorbed on Lewis acid sites tends to react faster than that adsorbed on Bronsted acid sites. 23 The mainstay of the current investigation is to exhibit the identification of zeolite systems that provide viable options to address the issues faced with the stereotypic SSZ-13 in terms of wide temperature activity, high hydrothermal stability and N 2 selectivity for NH 3 -SCR of NOx under the realistic conditions of automotive exhaust. Though there are several reports about zeolite based NH 3 -SCR of NOx, the conditions in each of these studies were not essentially the same and it becomes increasingly difficult to arrive at a general conclusion. Therefore, investigating the efficiency of these materials under a global standard of automotive exhaust conditions is needed for the effective screening of zeolite catalysts based on both the cost and functionality. In particular, International Organization for Standardization (ISO) and Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) have set certain standards in vehicle manufacturing and auto parts production. These standards vary in accordance to each country's own jurisdiction requirements. 24 In this regard, a new joint research organization combining nine of the Japanese automobile manufactures and two academic organizations in Japan known as the Research Association of Automotive Internal Combustion Engines (AICE) was established in 2014. Since then AICE supports fundamental and applied research through joint academic and industrial initiatives to develop advanced clean low exhaust gas reduction technologies. Hence, the current study has been conducted over the AICE prescribed standards using ca. 30 zeolite based catalysts (from researchers in Japan) to formulate the ideal knowledge about their catalytic activities for NH 3 -SCR of NOx as well as their improvement. Given the extent of environmental damage from automobile exhaust the current study indexes zeolites based mainly on their NH 3 -SCR of NOx functionality (ion-exchange capacity, activity and hydrothermal durability) rather than their production cost. Further, the NH 3 -SCR of NOx experiments were carried out by overlooking the existing diversities (in terms of synthesis conditions, molar Si/Al ratio, surface chemistry, porosity, Cu content, etc.,) of zeolites investigated so as to represent the good performance of each zeolite within their family.
Several studies have pointed to the presence of antinutritional factors and toxic compounds like hydrocyanic acid and acetogenins, among many others, in seeds from commercial fruits (Midio & Martins, 2000; Araújo, 2004; Caramori et al., 2004; Silva, 2011) . Toxicity risk is insignificant when fresh fruits are consumed but it becomes significant in manufactured and industrial products, where seeds may be partially broken during pulp removal. Indeed, significant cyanide concentrations in peach and cherry liqueurs, juices and wines have been reported (Fernandez & Novelli, 1997) . Unfortunately, there is no clinical data available about toxicity from fruit seeds or industrial derivatives in Brazil.
Previous studies using Artemia salina bioassay showed the presence of toxic compounds in the seeds of Cagaita (Eugenia dysenterica), Mangaba (Hancornia speciosa), Jatobá (Hymenaea stigonocarpa) and Araticum (Annona crassiflora). Although dose -response curves have suggested that hydrocyanic acid is responsible for the toxicity found in some of these seeds, cyanide-specific Guignard tests showed negative results in all tested samples (Fonseca et al., 2013) .
The potential applications of 2-methyl-(2H)-tetrazole-5-amino-saccharinate (2MTS; 4, Scheme 2) in catalysis and in chelant-based chemotherapy stimulated the study of its photostability. The photochemistry of monomeric 2MTS was investigated and the results were compared with those obtained for other 5-aminotetrazole derivatives (Scheme 2), including 2-methyl-(2H)-tetrazole-5-amine (2MT; 2) used as building block for its synthesis. The compounds were isolated in solid argon (15 K) and the matrix was subjected to in situ narrowband UV excitation at different wavelengths, which proved to induce selective photochemical transformations of the reactants and also of the initially formed photoproducts. The progress of the reactions was followed by infrared spectroscopy, supported by quantum chemical calculations. Irradiation of matrix-isolated 2MTS at λ = 290 nm for 100 min resulted in consumption of around 60 % of the reactant. Under these conditions, the sole product observed was the antiaromatic 1H-diazirene 7 (Scheme 3), which remained photostable. On the other hand, irradiation of matrix-isolated 2MTS at λ = 250 nm led to a faster consumption of the reagent, with formation of nitrile imine 6, which rapidly cyclized to diazirene 7. At λ = 250 nm diazirene 7 was found to be unstable, reacting through two concomitant reaction pathways: (a) photoisomerization to photostable carbodiimide 8; (b) photodecomposition, leading to stable nitrile 9 and isocyanic acid CNH 12, which most probably derives from methyl nitrene. Noteworthy, the saccharyl system remained stable under both irradiation conditions, the photodegradation of 2MTS relying exclusively on extrusion of N 2 from the tetrazolyl ring. The photodegradation pattern of 2MTS proved to be similar to that of its parent 2MT, although the reaction was about 20 times slower. In fact, our studies have clearly demonstrated the stabilizing effect of the saccharyl system on the photostability of the tetrazolyl moiety, in 2MTS, this effect also extending to the nitrile imine intermediate 6 and to the antiaromatic 1H-diazirene 7, found to be photostable at 290 nm, in contrast to the 1H-diazirene derived from 2-methyl-5-aminotetrazole, which was found to react upon irradiation at 325 nm. A similar photo-stabilizing effect induced by the electron-withdrawing saccharyl moiety was observed during a previous study of the photochemistry of a S-linked tetrazole-saccharinate [10] .
The EPR studies on the photolysis of compounds 2 and 5 enabled the detection of methyl nitrene 10, supporting our proposal that photostable nitriles (9, 16) arise from photodecomposition of diazirenes (7, 14) , together with methyl nitrene, which further reacts to give isocyanic acid (Scheme 4; pathway b).
Ab initio calculations were used to study the mechanism of the cycloaddition reaction between isocyanic acid and formaldehyde.The catalytic effect of BH 3 on the reaction was studied too.Both uncatalyzed reaction and BH 3 catalyzed reaction proceeded via a concerted way.Uncatalyzed reaction was a synchronous process .In contrast,BH 3 catalyzed reaction was a asynchronous process.BH 3 catalyzed reaction was easier to proceed than uncatalyed reaction.
Conclusions1.The opening of 16, 17α-cyclopropano-20-ketosteroids by thiocyanic and hydrochloric acids proceeds with the cleavage of both the exo and endoα-bond of the three-membered ring; the obtained resulte correspond to a preference of conformations of the transoid type for this molecule in the transition state.2.Replacing the 20-keto group by a hydrazone fragment qualitatively does not change the structural direction of the opening of the cyclopropane ring by thiocyanic acid.
Hetero-Diels-Alder cycloaddition of acylnitroso dienophile 4 with the N-(butadienyl)pyrrolidinone derivatives 2a, b led with complete regioselectivity to the oxazine adducts 5a, b (Scheme 1). Sequential osmylation, protection of the ensuing glycol, and reduction of the NO bond gave the expected hemiaminals 11a, b which were characterized by their crystalline sulfite adducts 12a, b (Schemes 1 and 2). Deprotection and saponification of the latter led to aminodeoxyerythrose and to aminodeoxyribose derivatives as an equilibrium of pyrrolidinose equivalents, i.e., hemiaminals 14a, b, imines 14′a, b, and dimers 14″a,b, respectively (Scheme 3). Hydrocyanic acid addition to 11a, b led ultimately to the proline derivatives 16a, b (Scheme 2). Compound 11b proved to be an inhibitor of syncytium formation in AIDS-infected cells.
Abstract High-resolution, electroh energy loss spectra (EELS) and temperature-programmed desorption (TPD) spectra show that isocyanic acid is molecularly adsorbed in multilayers on the Pt(111) surface at 100 K. Heating to 150 K desorbs the multilayers and shifts the asymmetric v a (NCO) vibrational frequency from 2270 to 2160 cm −1 , but the adsorption remains molecular. By 250 K, most of the isocyanic acid has decomposed on the platinum surface to form CO and nitrogen-containing surface fragments. No CO 2 , H 2 O, or HCN is found to desorb from the surface, and we find no evidence for cleavage of the bond between the carbon and oxygen atoms. The data indicate that an “isocyanate” species is unlikely to be stable on a platinum surface above room temperature under low-pressure conditions. Also, isocyanates on supported platinum catalysts are probably formed by the reaction of CO with a nitrogen species on the surface.
Reactions of atomic oxygen with isocyanic acid (HNCO) have been studied in incident and reflected shock wave experiments using HNCO/N2O/Ar mixtures. Quantitative time-histories of the NH(X3Σ−) and OH(X2Πi) radicals were measured behind the shock waves using cw, narrow-linewidth laser absorption at 336 nm and 307 nm, respectively. The second-order rate coefficients of the reactions: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: and ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: were determined from early-time NH and OH formation rates, with least-squares two-parameter fits of the results given by: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: and ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: cm3 mol−1 s−1. The minimum and maximum rate constant factors (ƒ,F) define the lower and upper uncertainty limits, respectively. ::: ::: ::: ::: An upper limit on the rate coefficient of ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: was determined to be: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: .
Two hundred and six phosphate-solubilizing rhizobacteria (PSB) were isolated from rhizosphere soil (RS) and root endosphere (ER) of apple trees from different sites of four locations viz., Chamba, Shimla, Kinnaur and Kullu of Himachal Pradesh, Northern India, and were screened for plant growth promoting traits (PGPTs) by using culture dependent procedures. Indole acetic acid (IAA) production was detected in 50 isolates (24.2 %), siderophore synthesis in 53 isolates (25.7 %), hydrocyanic acid (HCN) in 40 isolates (19.4 %) and percentage growth inhibition against Dematophora necatrix in 61 isolates (29.6 %). Overall, 54.3 % of PSB isolates from RS and 64.4 % from ER showed none of the PGPTs tested. Among the PSB showing PGPTs, 10.6 % had single trait and 30.6 % had multiple traits showing two (10.7 %), three (14.1 %) and four (5.8 %) types of PGPTs. The Shannon–Weaver diversity index (H′) revealed that PGPT-possessing PSBs in RS were more abundant than ER. Clustering analysis by principal component analysis showed that ER was most important factor influencing the ecological distribution and physiological characterization of PGPT-possessing PSB. There was a positive correlation (0.94, p < 0.05) between HCN and antifungal activity producers, and IAA and antifungal activity producers (0.99, p < 0.05). Significant positive correlation (0.42, p < 0.05) between HCN producers and altitude was also noted.
1,1-Diamino-2,2-dinitroethene (FOX-7) is a relatively new highly energetic material, with good explosive performance and low sensitivity against mechanical stimuli and thermal stress. Therefore, on the one hand, FOX-7 is very stable and a starting material with fairly low reactivity. On the other hand, chlorosulfonyl isocyanate ClSO2NCO is a very reactive reagent and represents a highly activated form of isocyanic acid HNCO. New derivatives of FOX-7 and its hydrazine analogue 1-amino-1-hydrazino-2,2-dinitroethene, as well as unusual potassium salts, are described. Besides the usual spectroscopic characterization, the structures of all compounds were investigated and discussed by single-crystal X-ray diffraction. The compounds demonstrate good thermal stabilities, very high densities, and excellent sensitivity values. The heats of formation were calculated, and together with the room-temperature densities, the energetic parameters were estimated. The compounds are potential candidates as insensitive high-e...
During the summer of 1924 experiments were conducted in the dormitories of the Agricultural and Mechanical College of Mississippi for the control of bedbugs, Cimex lectularius Linn., by heat. Superheating of the infested rooms was secured by closing the rooms and turning on the steam heat during hot summer weather. At temperatures of 120 degrees Fahrenheit and above, absolute control was secured by treatment of several hours duration. A very high percentage mortality was secured by exposures to temperatures averaging 110 degrees Fahrenheit when maintained for two days or more. The results obtained by the treatment of 350 dormitory rooms have proved so much better in respect to the saving of labor, safety and effectiveness than the method of fumigation with hydrocyanic acid gas that the latter method has been abandoned in favor of superheating for control of this pest.
Dry seeds of melon—Citrullus vulgaris_Schrad, Citrullus lanatus (Thunb.) Mansf. syn. Colocynthis citrullus Linn. O. Ktze, Cucumeropsis mannii Naud (Cult.) syn. Cucumeropsis edulis (Hook.f) Cogn. and gourd—Lagenaria sicceraria var. 1 (Molina) were used. The effects of germination, toasting and boiling on proximate composition, phytic acid, oxalate, total phenols, hydrocyanic acid and saponin contents were determined on control and treated samples. Apart from fibre and ash, protein and oil, contents changed in concentration with pre-treatments. There was about 2–4% protein increase in kernels from 48 h germinated seed but subsequent germination reduced the protein content by 9–10%; oil was also reduced by 7–10%. Antinutritive and toxic contents of raw kernels were phenols 1.6–2.4 mg catechin/g, hydrocyanic acid 12.1–15.9 mg/100g and saponin 3.1–4.2%. Toasting reduced 22–44% saponin and 24–54% total phenol contents of the kernels; germination reduced phytic acid, oxalate and phenols by 31–50, 26–41 and 17–67%, respectively; whereas boiling appreciably reduced all the components by about 40–81%, with phenols having the greatest reduction. The soluble antinutritional and toxic components of the kernels were found in traces in the boiled water. In general, the data obtained in this investigation tend to suggest that the use of kernels from some species of Cucurbitaceae for food may have no health hazard potentials.
Abstract Kinetic energy distributions for the HCO + and NH + fragment ions produced by electron impact from isocyanic acid, HNCO, have been studied by a deflection method. The kinetic energy distribution observed for HCO + is consistent with formation by slow predissociation via a repulsive quartet state of the parent ion. The distribution observed for NH + is of the shape expected for a dissociation without significant reverse activation energy but with a spread of excitation energies available for the formation of the fragment ion. Quantitative disagreement between the observed deflection curve and quasi-equilibrium theory prediction may be due to the formation of some NH + ions in an excited electronic state.
Context ::: Relatively high abundances of methyl isocyanate (CH3NCO), a methyl derivative of isocyanic acid (HNCO), found in the Orion KL and Sgr B2 molecular clouds suggest that its ethyl derivative, ethyl isocyanate (CH3CH2NCO), may also be present. ::: ::: ::: Aims ::: The aim of this work is to provide accurate experimental frequencies of ethyl isocyanate in its ground and excited vibrational states in the millimeter wave region to support searches for it in the interstellar medium. ::: ::: ::: Methods ::: The rotational spectrum of ethyl isocyanate was recorded at room temperature from 80 to 340 GHz using the millimeter wave spectrometer in Valladolid. Assigned rotational transitions were analyzed using the S -reduced semirigid-rotor Hamiltonian. ::: ::: ::: Results ::: More than 1100 distinct frequency lines were analyzed for the ground vibrational state of the cis conformer as well as for three vibrational satellites corresponding to successive excitation of the lowest-energy C-N torsional mode. Newly determined rotational and centrifugal distortion constants were used for searches of spectral features of ethyl isocyanate in Orion KL and Sgr B2 clouds. Upper limits to CH3CH2NCO in these high-mass star-forming regions were obtained.
Total N (N t ), hydrolyzed N, NH 3 -N, and nonhydrolyzed N were determined in soil particle-size separates from unfertilized or manured treatments in five long-term (15-108 yr) experiments in Germany. The concentrations of all N fractions (i) increased with decreases in particle size and (ii) were higher in samples from manured treatments. Irrespective of particle size and soil management, nonhydrolyzed N accounted for 7 to 31% of N t (mean: 19%). On average, 53% of nonhydrolyzed N could be volatilized by pyrolysis. Field ionization mass spectra of the pyrolyzates of two hydrolysis residues showed that N heterocycles are major constituents of nonhydrolyzed N. In addition, 28 to 34% of total ion intensity was assigned to low-mass N compounds and aliphatic nitriles and amides. Shifts to higher volatilization temperatures with maxima at 450 to 520°C in the thermograms of all N compounds indicated that chemical stability, or strong bonds to soil minerals, are main reasons for the resistance of these molecules to acid hydrolysis. Curie-point pyrolysis-gas chromatography/mass spectrometry using a N-selective detector and library searches enabled the identification of aliphatic, carbocyclic, and aromatic amines and nitriles, benzothiazole, substituted imidazoles, substituted pyrroles and pyrrolidine, substituted pyrazoles, an isoquinoline derivative, substituted pyrazines and piperazine, pyridine, and methylpyridine. In addition, low-mass N compounds such as hydrocyanic acid, N 2 , nitrogen monoxide, isocyanomethane, and hydrazoic acid were assigned so that, in total, 37 compounds were identified in the pyrolyzates of nonhydrolyzed N. Within this fraction, we distinguished (i) proteinaceous materials, nonhydrolyzable probably due to binding or occlusion by pedogenic oxides, and (ii) highly alkyl-substituted N heterocycles, which are structural constituents of stable humic substances.
The reaction mechanism of Germylene with isocyanic acid has been investigated by B3LYP method of density function theory,and the geometries and harmonic of reactants,intermediates,transition states and products have been calculated at the B3LYP/6-311+ + G~(**) level.To obtain more precise energy result,the stationary point energies were calculated at QCISD(T)/6-311 ++G~(**) //B3LYP/6-311 +G~(**) level.Intermediates and transition states were confirmed by the results of vibration analysis and the Intrinsic Reaction Coordinates(IRC) calculation.The results indicate that the reaction of singlet state Germylene with isocyanic acid has the O-atom abstraction channel,insert N-H channel and NH abstraction channel.In the temperature range from 100 to 2300 K,the statistical thermodynamics and Eyring transition state theory with Winger correction are used to study the thermodynamic and kinetic characters of the channel with low energy barrier at 1.0 Atm.It is found that the reaction GeH_2 + HN-CO→IM7→TS6→P2 is the main pathway with larger equilibrium constant and higher rate constant in temperature range from 400 to 1400 K and GeH_3NCO is the main products.
Manihot esculenta Crantz represents one of the most important socioeconomic cultures in Brazil, since it plays a social role in the generation of employment and income of family farmers and communities, whose main source of income is in this activity. This process generates waste which, if not collected and treated properly, can cause damage to the environment. In the northeastern region of Para there are several agri-food enterprises that benefit cassava. Thus, a study was carried out on the processing of cassava in agri-food enterprises in the northeast of Para and the perception about the initiatives of the process of utilization of its residues. The research was conducted through field visits, interviews with farmers, and some photographic records. A questionnaire consisting of open and closed questions was applied, and the interviewees were chosen by means of the technique called snowball sampling. After the data collection, a quantitative evaluation was carried out, making it possible to detect that cassava beneficiation enterprises studied in the northeastern region of Para do not adequately treat their residues and the most worrisome is the disposal of the manipueira (effluent), since it is considered a toxic solution, due to the presence of linamarin, glycoside, characteristic of the cassava plant, potentially hydrolyzed to hydrocyanic acid. Even being an organic material, due to improper packaging, can cause damage to the environment and public health.
The experiment was conducted to determine the effect of different harvesting period on the chemical composition and yielding of cassava (foliage and tuber). Two different ages of cassava foliage of initial harvesting, at 3 and 5 months were conducted for IH3 + FH and IH5 + FH treatments, respectively. The final harvests of these two treatments were done the whole including tuber in the 7 month. Cassava foliage, harvested once at root harvest (7 month), was performed as a control treatment (FH). The lowest hydrocyanic acid potential (HCNp) content was observed at control treatment in both cassava foliage and tuber while IH3 + FH treatment showed the highest HCNp content. The HCNp and crude protein (CP) content were higher in the leave compared with petiole and stem of foliage while these compositions were also higher in cortex than parenchyma portion of cassava tuber. The opposite trend was found in the crude fiber (CF) contents, which were higher in the petiole and stem than the leaves. The highest total foliage and protein yield were observed at IH5 + FH treatment compared with IH3 + FH and FH. FH treatment produced the highest tuber yield (15268 kg/ha), followed by IH5 + FH (11567 kg/ha) in this experiment. The leaves and tuber contain gross energy with an average of 4709 kcal/kg (range: 4608-4783 kcal/kg) and 3857 kcal/kg (range: 3842-3881 kcal/kg), respectively. Viewing both yield and proximate analytical values, the IH5 + FH treatment gives the highest foliage yield together with the high CP and low fiber content in both harvest periods.
Root tubers are the important staple food crops in the tropics, Nigeria inclusive. In the South East of Nigeria, the major staple root tuber crops include Dioscorea rotundata, (White yam) Dioscorea alata, (Water yam) Xanthosoma sagittifolium , (Red Cocoyam) Colocasia esculenta, (White Cocoyam) Ipomea batatas (Sweet potato) and Dioscorea dumetorum (Domestic yam). Due to inadequacies in supply, these tubers are always in high demand by consumers. To make up for the high demand, peasant farmers cultivate these tubers in any available space around homes. Around most homes in the villages are garri (cassava flour) processing factories, with the effluents (waste water) allowed to flow into adjoining farmlands without any form of treatment. It has been reported that cassava tubers and their effluents contain high concentrations of cyanide, thus the cyanide in the effluent may be adsorbed by the soil onto which it is disposed. Plants that are grown on soil of low potassium content and high nitrogen content have been reported to have high hydrocyanic acid concentration in their tubers. Numerous studies have described environmental exposure of humans to cyanide in African populations. Little is known about exposure to cyanide toxins from processed or unprocessed root tubers commonly consumed in Africa; and data on the food concentration of cyanide which is a potential poison and systemic toxicant is scanty. This study determined the concentrations of cyanide in some root tubers grown in a cassava processing plant effluent [waste water] contaminated farm land and commonly consumed in South East of Nigeria. Dioscorea rotundata had 10.13±1.9mgHCN/kg, while Dioscorea alata had 9.12±0.93mgHCN/kg. Xanthosoma sagittifolium and Colocasia esculenta were found to have values of 15.19±1.69mgHCN/kg and 11.81±1.19mgHCN/kg, respectively . Ipomea batatas [red cultivar] had cyanide level of 8.44±1.20 mgHCN/kg, while the white cultivar had 8.44±1.20mgHCN/kg. Dioscorea dumetorum [domestic] showed cyanide level of 35.44±1.69mgHCN/kg. These values are significantly [p<0.05] higher compared to values from the control site for the same cultivars, 9.65±1.36mgHCN/kg, 8.45±1.60mgHCN/kg, 14.77±1.33mgHCN/kg and 10.89±1.55 mgHCN/kg, respectively while I. batatas and D. dumetorum had 7.26±1.34mgHCN/kg, 32.76±0.05mgHCN/kg, respectively. The difference in cyanide content between cultivars from the assumed contaminated site and control site could be as a result of environmental factors, like temperature, humidity, altitude and possibly the cassava effluent [waste water]. This preliminary study highlights the need to study the toxicological implications of chronic low–level exposure to cyanide from African root tubers as a result of poor waste disposal methods. Keywords : Tubers, cyanide, toxicity, soil, contamination African Journal of Food, Agriculture, Nutrition and Development , Volume 12 No. 6
The production situation of iminodiacetic acid are introduced.The production methods and applications of iminodiacetic acid are reviewed. A suggestion for large scale prodution of iminodiacetic acid by hydrocyanic acid was raised to increase product quality,reduce production cost and improve the competitive power in the world.
In laboratory fumigations, hydrocyanic acid (HCN) at 16 mg per liter for 2 hours under sustained vacuum near 125 mm mercury absolute pressure and at 22 was effective against larvae of Plemeliella abietina Seitner and Megastigmus sp. Infesting spruce seed imported from Europe. Both insects showed high resistance to methyl bromide, and P. abietina , but Megastigmus survived 32 mg for 2 hours. In small-scale germination tests, seeds of 5 species of conifers, white spruce Picea glauca (Moench) Voss; Norway spruce, Picea abies (L.) Karst; Scotch pine, Pinus sylvestris L.; Mugo pine, Pinus mugo var. mughus (Scop.) Zenari; and European larch, Larix decidua Mill, tolerated 32 mg or more HCN under vacuum, Carbon disulfide showed promise, but more data are needed Results with dry heart, acrylonitrile, carbon tetrachloride, dichlorvos, and ethylene dibromide are discussed.
Fifty-five cassava cultivars ( Manihot esculenta , Crantz) were evaluated for 3 consecutive years in a Coto clay (Oxisol) in northwestern Puerto Rico. The highest yielders, averaged over 3 years, were PI 12902, Jamaica 18, PI 9570 and PI 12003 with 34,345, 29,906, 26,845 and 24,684 kg/ha, respectively. The organoleptic evaluation reveals that all but PI 12903 were found to be acceptable. The hydrocyanic acid content among cultivars was below the moderately toxic levels, (50 p/m). These results are in line with previous work conducted in east central Puerto Rico.
The preparation of gaseous isoselenocyanic acid, HNCSe, first reported by Landsberg [10] in 1979, has been considerably improved. This unstable molecule decays in the gaseous phase according to a second-order reaction. In the infrared region the vibrational spectrum of HNCSe was measured in the gaseous phase and in an argon matrix at low resolution. The combined analysis of the vibrational spectra of HNCSe yielded the assignment of the A fundamental vibrations. From the gaseous phase absorptions v4 = 3535 cm−1, v2 = 1957 cm−1 and v3 = 625 cm−1 could be assigned. The bands in the gas phase spectrum at 760, 583, 521 and 419 cm−1 cannot be considered as band centers. They are the result of the superposition of the subband structures of the bending modes v4, v5 and v6 exhibiting quasilinear behaviour. This can be deduced from the wavenumber positions of v4 = 508 cm−1 and v5 = 419 cm−1 observed in the argon matrix spectra. Due to the rapid H/D exchange the infrared spectrum of DNCSe could not be measured.
Objective To realize the level,source and demand of knowledge on smoking and health in secondary school students.Methods Self-administered questionnaires were used in a cross-sectional survey to collect smoking related information of 8?656 secondary school students.Results According to the percentage of correct responses,diseases caused by smoking were ranked as follows:lung cancer,chronic bronchitis,emphysema,chronic pulmonary heart disease(CHPD),mouth cancer,larynx cancer,coronary heart disease,hypertension,gastric ulcer and stroke.The percentage of correct responses for tobacco tar was the highest,followed by nicotine,then carbon monoxide and hydrocyanic acid.Health workers served as the most reliable source to provide knowledge on smoking and health.Only 38.9% of the respondents reported having ever been exposed to anti-smoking propaganda,according to whose opinions television and advertisement were the two most impressive methods of propagandizing.Among the respondents,64% of them showed their wishes to know more knowledge about smoking and health.Their most favorite method to get smoking related knowledge was through television and broadcast.Damage of smoking to health was the prior knowledge that they needed.Conclusion In order to improve the effectiveness of education on smoking and health for adolescents,health workers should be involved as much as possible.The knowledge on smoking and cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases should be added and emphasized.Televisions and advertisements are supposed to be effective education methods.
Isofulminic acid, HONC, the most energetic stable isomer of isocyanic acid HNCO, higher in energy by 84 kcal/mol, has been detected spectroscopically by rotational spectroscopy supported by coupled cluster electronic structure calculations. The fundamental rotational transitions of the normal, carbon-13, oxygen-18, and deuterium isotopic species have been detected in the centimeter band in a molecular beam by Fourier transform microwave spectroscopy, and rotational constants and nitrogen and deuterium quadrupole coupling constants have been derived. The measured constants agree well with those predicted by ab initio calculations. A number of other electronic and spectroscopic parameters of isofulminic acid, including the dipole moment, vibrational frequencies, infrared intensities, and centrifugal distortion constants have been calculated at a high level of theory. Isofulminic acid is a good candidate for astronomical detection with radio telescopes. Because HOCN and HCNO have recently been identified in space, detection of HONC is not out of the realm of possibility. It is calculated to lie only 14 kcal/mol higher in energy than HCNO and is comparably polar, so it may be found in warm regions where HCNO is abundant. If detected in space, the abundance ratios between HONC and other isomers may provide further insight into the complex gas and surface chemistry which is thought to produce these isomers.
Cassava (Manihot esculenta Crantz) is a plant of the family Euforbiaceae, cultivated mainly because of its tuberous roots rich in starch. The species shows considerable drought tolerance and adapts to the most varied climatic and soil conditions. Genetic breeding of cassava has focused on the development of specific cultivars, aiming at the production of tuberous roots for culinary use (cooked, fried, chips, cassava stick, precooked, pasta, among others). The selected cultivars must have storage roots with hydrocyanic acid contents less than 100 mg kg -1 fresh roots; high root yield; roots with good sensory properties (softness and plasticity after cooking, nonsticky mass, pleasant aroma and appearance) and cooking qualities (low fiber, low cooking time, and homogeneous mass after cooking); resistance to pests and diseases; architecture favorable to cultural traits (not branching or branching as high as possible); roots with low postharvest deterioration; earliness (harvest up to 11 months), among other characteristics . In addition to carbohydrates, cassava has genetic potential to be a source of carotenoids for human consumption, especially β-carotene, a precursor of vitamin A, present in genotypes with yellow roots (Chávez et al., 2005; Mezzete et al., 2009; Silva et al., 2014) . Besides being a source of calories for the world's poorest populations, the possibility of cassava being a source of vitamin A would improve the nutrition of these people and add value to cultivars intended for human consumption (Carvalho et al., 2016) .
Determination ofprotein methionine sulfoxideformation. P388D1 cells were labeled with 10 MCi [35S]methionine (600 Ci/mmol; New England Nuclear, Boston, MA) for 18 h. After two washes in MGB, the cells were exposed to HOCG for 15 min at 37°C, and protein was precipitated by TCA. The samples were boiled for 10 min, microfuged, and washed twice with TCA to remove free methionines. Cell precipitates were solubilized in 70% formic acid and digested with 30 mM cyanogen bromide for 20 h. Cyanogen bromide cleaves proteins at methionine residues forming volatile isothiocyanate, whereas oxidized methionine is not reactive with cyanogen bromide. "S-label was determined before and after removing [35Slisothiocyanic acid by volatilization under N2, and label in methionine was calculated from the difference. Label in methionine sulfoxide was calculated from the amount of label that was not volatilized (20).
Isofulminic acid, HONC, the most energetic stable isomer of isocyanic acid HNCO, higher in energy by 84 kcal/mol, has been detected spectroscopically by rotational spectroscopy supported by coupled cluster electronic structure calculations. The fundamental rotational transitions of the normal, carbon-13, oxygen-18, and deuterium isotopic species have been detected in the centimeter band in a molecular beam by Fourier transform microwave spectroscopy, and rotational constants and nitrogen and deuterium quadrupole coupling constants have been derived. The measured constants agree well with those predicted by ab initio calculations. A number of other electronic and spectroscopic parameters of isofulminic acid, including the dipole moment, vibrational frequencies, infrared intensities, and centrifugal distortion constants have been calculated at a high level of theory. Isofulminic acid is a good candidate for astronomical detection with radio telescopes because it is highly polar and its more stable isomers ͑HNCO, HOCN, and HCNO͒ have all been identified in space.
The invention relates to an environmental-friendly new method for preparing N-phosphonomethyl iminodiacetic acid by utilizing acrylonitrile byproduct hydrocyanic acid, belonging to the comprehensive utilization of acrylonitrile device byproduct hydrocyanic acid in industrial scale. The method includes that: step first, acrylonitrile byproduct hydrocyanic acid is used for preparing hydroxyl acetonitrile, and then iminodiacetonitrile is prepared; step two, the obtained iminodiacetonitrile is used for preparing iminodiacetic acid by acid hydrolysis method; and step three, the obtained iminodiacetic acid is used for preparing N-phosphonomethyl iminodiacetic acid. No report of preparing PMIDA by utilizing acrylonitrile byproduct hydrocyanic acid in industrial scale is seen, and the inventor uses local materials, utilizes the advantages of being adjacent to Qilu petrochemical and having resource of hydrocyanic acid (4000 ton/year) transmitted by pipeline and initially provides the method for preparing PMIDA by utilizing acrylonitrile byproduct hydrocyanic acid in industrial scale. The invention solves the problem of region restriction of product production caused by inconvenient transportation of hydrocyanic acid. A gas and liquor mixer is applied to iminodiacetonitrile reaction, and by virtue of DCS control system, quality and yield of iminodiacetonitrile are improved.
Abstract The interaction of isocyanic acid (HNCO) with titania in the anatase modification has been investigated by means of DRIFT spectroscopy and TPD experiments. HNCO adsorbs dissociatively on TiO2 to yield isocyanate ( NCO) groups, bound to Ti4+ sites, and hydroxyl ( OH) groups. The stability of these NCO groups decreases with increasing temperatures, and at T > 200 °C they are very easily removed from the surface. In the presence of water, the hydrolysis of the NCO species to ammonia is also fostered by elevating the temperature. Moreover, HNCO adsorption on a sample previously exposed to ammonia revealed that competitive adsorption occurs on the surface. The catalytic activity of TiO2 for the hydrolyis of HNCO was investigated in a micro plug-flow reactor and correlated with the stability and reactivity of the isocyanate species found by DRIFT spectroscopy. The results are discussed in view of the role of the HNCO hydrolysis in the selective catalytic reduction (SCR) of diesel NOx emissions with urea (urea-SCR process).
In a recent article describing the reactions of isocyanic acid with carbonyl compounds, Hoover, Stevenson, and Rothrock (1) observed that chloral reacted slowly with free isocyanic acid at 0° to give CCl3CH(OH)NCO, m.p. 25°. On stirring with water, this was converted to a solid, m.p. 190-200°, assigned structure A. This latter substance was also produced by reaction of isocyanic acid directly with chloral hydrate.
The study on the chemical composition of the seeds of one of the most popularly known and popularly consumed tropical plant, Gnetum africana (afang) has been carried out by analyzing samples of the plant seeds collected from some plantations located within Akwa Ibom State (South Eastern Nigeria) for chemical Composition. The proximate, elemental and toxicant composition of the seeds (Gnetum africana) were determined by analyzing samples of the identified seeds for their carbohydrate, protein, lipid, ash, fibre, moisture and caloric value (proximate composition), iron, zinc, lead, potassium, sodium, magnesium and calcium (mineral compositon) and tannin, hydrocyanic acid, oxalate and phytic acid (toxicant composition) using recommended method of analysis. The result of the analysis shows that the percentage moisture content, crude protein, crude fat, crude fibre, ash content and carbohydrate of this seeds are 31.60%, 17.50%, 3.15%, 0.80%, 1.20% and 87.62% respectively while its caloric value is 448.83kcal/100g. The percentage sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, iron, zinc and lead content of the seed were 15.57, 38.56, 7.01, 5.48, 1.50, 1.50, 1.07 and 0.03 respectively while its toxicant content were 540mg/100g, 100.74mg/100g, 209.00mg/100g and 238.26mg/100g for hydrocyanic acid, tannin, oxalate and phytic acid respectively. The proximate, mineral and toxicant composition of the seeds were also compare with values reported in literature for other edible vegetable and the results show that the seeds are poor source of essential elements compared with other vegetable seeds. The antinutritional content of the seeds were very high when compare to values reported for other vegetables. Based on the result of the present study, it has been found that afang seeds are rich in proximate composition (when compare with other edible vegetables). Their low mineral content and their high toxicant content therefore suggest that these seeds should be properly processed before consuming them and its consumption should be supplemented with other food whose elemental content are high.
The two-nuclei quadrupole hyperfine structure of four a Q 1 -subbranch transitions of deuteroisothiocyanic acid, DNCS, has been resolved and analyzed by use of a waveguide microwave Fourier transform spectrometer. The analysis yielded one previously unknown quadrupole coupling constant (χ − ≡χ bb −χ cc ) for both nitrogen (χ N − =+27.6(11)kHz) and deuterium χ D − =+175.8(11)kHz). Taking into account the results from earlier work on HNCS, DNCS, HNCO, and DNCO, the orientations of the principal axis systems of the two quadrupole coupling tensors could be calculated. It appears that while the deuterium tensor is aligned to the D−N internuclear axis as expected, the nitrogen tensor is tilted away from the bisector of the DNC angle by 13° towards the NCS chain
Mineral and phytochemical contents of leaves of Amaranthus hybridus L. andSolanum nigrum L. Subjected to different processing methods were evaluated. Processing procedures adopted include shredding, sun–drying, oven–drying, steaming and a combination of these. Minerals examined are Na, K, Ca, Mg, Fe, P, and Zn while the phytochemicals are alkaloids, flavonoids, hydrocyanic acid, phenols, phytic acid and tannins. Oven – drying was the most effective method for retaining the studied minerals in S. nigrum but only for Na, Ca, Fe and Mg in A.hybridus L. Na/K and Ca/P ratios ranged between 0.13 – 0.14 and 1.24 - 1.28 A.hybridus L. while values for S. nigrum L. were 0.70 – 0.80 and 0.21 – 0.24 respectively in all the treatments. Sun–drying was the most effective method for retaining the phytochemicals. For retention of alkaloids, flavonoids and saponins, oven–drying proved the second best method while steaming with sun – drying elicited the greatest reduction in the levels of hydrocyanic acid, phenols, phytic acid and tannins. Processing methods employed when utilizing these leaves should therefore reflect the desired effect. ::: ::: ::: ::: Key words: A. hybridus L., S. nigrum L., processing, minerals, phytochemicals.
Summary ::: ::: The extent of loss of hydrocyanic acid during the fermentation of cassava tubers selected from both sweet and bitter varieties in the traditional method (whole unpeeled tubers) compared with the fermentation of peeled tubers and crushed pulps with or without the addition of water. Although the traditional fermentation is terminated after 3–4 days, in this study the fermentation was allowed to proceed for 8 days. Loss of cyanide from the whole tubers was 8047% after 8 days and was only 51–53% after 4 days. Loss of cyanide from the whole sweet tuber was not significant after 5 days. The loss of cyanide from the peeled tubers was comparable to the whole tubers after 8 days of fermentation. However, there was a marked decrease in free cyanide in the 1st day of fermentation of the peeled tubers compared to whole tubers. The loss in cyanide in the crushed pulp, which occurred primarily in the 1st day, appears to be due to the action of endogenous linamarase rather than hydrolysis by fermentation. When water is added to the crushed pulp the reduction in cyanide was 83–91% with marked decrease in bound cyanide in the 1st day of fermentation. It seems that autohydrolysis is enhanced by addition of water to the crushed pulp.
A kinetic structural model is developed to describe the reaction of difunctional aromatic cyanic acid esters with aromatic bisglycidyl ethers. Based on the main reactions found—trimerization of the cyanate groups, insertion of glycidyl ethers into the cyanurate, isomerization into isocyanurates, build-up of oxazolidinones, phenol abstraction, and phenol-glycidyl ether addition—the reaction kinetics were modeled by a system of differential equations. the resulting concentrations of the possible structural elements were combined with the help of cascade formalism to describe the statistics of the network build-up. the approach is illustrated by discussing the influence of the several reaction steps on the gelation behavior and the network structure. It was found that a broad spectrum of possible structural compositions can be simulated, especially near the equimolar initial ratio of cyanate to epoxy groups.
Analyses of fractionated aqueous extracts of the Murchison meteorite by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry after silylation with N-methyl-N (tert-butyldimethylsilyl) trifluoroacetamide have revealed an extensive series of linear and cyclic aliphatic amides. These include monocarboxylic acid amides, dicarboxylic acid monoamides, hydroxy acid amides, lactams, carboxy lactams, lactims, N-acetyl amino acids, and substituted hydantoins. Numerous isomers and homologues through at least C8 were observed in all cases, except for the N-acetyl amino acids and hydantoins. Carboxy lactams, lactams, hydantoins, and N-acetyl amino acids are converted to amino acids by acid hydrolysis, thus, these compounds qualitatively account for the earlier observation of acid-labile amino acid precursors in meteoritic extracts. Laboratory studies of the spontaneous decomposition of N-carbamyl-alpha-amino acids and their dehydration products, the 5-substituted hydantoins, have led to the recognition of a series of aqueous phase reactions by which amino acids and cyanic acid/cyanate ion in the primitive parent body might have given rise to several of the observed classes of amides, as well as to monocarboxylic acids, dicarboxylic acids, and hydroxy acids. A previously undescribed reaction of 5-substituted hydantoins with cyanic acid/cyanate ion to give carboxamides of the 5-substituent groups was observed in the course of these studies. The presence of an extensive suite of amides in a CM chondrite appears to be consistent with the interstellar-parent body formation hypothesis for the organic compounds of these meteorites. The presence of carboxy lactams and lactams along with free amino acids suggests the possibility of further chemical evolution of meteorite amino acids by thermal polymerization. The cyclic amides, given their potential for hydrogen-bonded pair formation, might be considered candidate bases for a primitive sequence coding system.
Hydroxynitrilelyase ( E.C.4.1.2.10) from the cyanogenic crop cassava could catalyze the condensation of hydrocyanic acid with aldehydes or ketone into (S)-cyano-hydrins, which are valuable starting material for various optically active compounds, such as pharmaceuticals and agrochemicals. The cDNA of α-HNL was obtained by RT-PCR and cloned. The sequencing result for the cDNA showed that the sequence encoded for the HNL was not fully consistent with those published. The full sequences analysis demonstrated that the highest homology of cDNA sequence was about 99.1% and the highest homology of amino acid sequence about 98.8% to other four reported HNL genes from cassava. The cDNA was cloned into an expression vector pPIC3.5K by PCR. After the transformation of pPIC3.5K-HNL and induction with methanol, the HNL was, for the first time, efficiently expressed in Pichia pastoris and reached over 5 040 units/L of culture. Fig 4, Ref 13
Infrared measurements have been made to examine what surface species exist during the NO + CO reaction on PdY zeolite catalysts treated in different ways, with special emphasis on the formation of a surface NCO complex. Results for NO adsorption suggest that Pd crystallites (produced by high-temperature reduction of the sample) are at least partially oxidized by NO, even at 193 K. In the presence of NO and CO the formation of a mixed complex [graphic omitted] can be detected at the same temperature. Although the complex is very unstable, in the presence of gaseous NO and CO it exists on the surface up to 423 K. When NO and CO were reacted at 473–673 K, a new band appeared at 2280 cm–1 in the i.r. spectra and was attributed to the asymmetric stretching vibration of a surface NCO (isocyanate) species. Since HNCO (isocyanic acid) adsorption on HY zeolite causes the appearance of the same band and no NCO complex was detected on HY during the NO + CO reaction, it is assumed that NCO is formed on the Pd and migrates onto the uncoordinated Al3+ ions in the zeolite framework.
The proximate (ash, crude fat, protein and fiber, carbohydrate and calorie values) composition, the minerals (Na, K, Ca, P, Mg, Fe and Zn), undesirable components (oxalates, phytate and hydrocyanic acid: HCN) were determined in young Lasianthera africana and Heinsia crinita. The ash, crude fat, crude protein of young Lasianthera africana with values of 12, 7.0 and 21 mg/100 g dry matter (DM) respectively, while that of the old leaves were 11, 6.0 and 19 mg/100 g DM, respectively. The crude fat, crude protein of the young Lasianthera africana were significantly higher (P<0.05) then those of the old Lasianthera africana leaves except for ash. For the Heinsia crinita, the ash and crude protein values of the young leaves were significantly higher (P<0.05) than those of the old leaves except for crude fat. ::: ::: ::: ::: In both species the old leaves had significantly higher (P<0:05) fiber contents than the young leaves. The carbohydrate and calorie values were not very different in the old and young leaves. For the minerals only the young Lasianthera africana leaves K, P, and Zn were significantly higher (P<0.05) than those of the old leaves while for the Heinsia crinita, Na, K and P were significantly higher (P<0.05) than those of the old leaves. The undesirable components showed that the young Lasianthera africana leaves had significantly higher (P<0.05) values for total and soluble oxalates and HCN when compared with old leaves. The same trend was observed for Heinsia crinita. These results will be discussed in conjunction with their nutritional importance.
When dhurrin [p-hydroxy-(S)-mandelonitrile-tJ-D-glucoside], the cyanogenic glucoside of sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench], is hydrolyzed by autoclaving, p-hydroxybenzaldehyde (P-HB) is released. The spectrophotometric determination of pHB concentration in autoclaved sorghum leaf extracts provides a measure of the hydrocyanic acid potential (HCN-p) of leaf tissue. Extracts of field-grown sorghum leaves contained substances that interfered with this procedure, but ether extraction effectively separated p-HB from these interfering materials. We observed that when flag leaf tissue from field-grown sorghum was dried at 75°C and then autoclaved, HCN-p values were about three times as high as those based on tissue that was autoclaved without drying. Investigations of this apparent enhancement supported the conclusion that when fresh field-grown sorghum leaf tissue was autoclaved, dhurrin was extensively altered or lost, but neither p-HB nor HCN was produced. Drying the tissue at 75°C prior to autoclaving effectively reduced this loss. Inclusion of tissue drying and ether extraction steps in the spectrophotometric assay made this procedure, which was designed for use with sorghum seedlings, satisfactory for use with field-grown sorghum leaves. Additional index words: Cyanogenesis, Dhurrin, p-Hydroxybenzaldehyde, Prussic acid, Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench, Spectrophotometric assay. AN earlier paper from this laboratory described a procedure for the spectrophotometric assay of the hydrocyanic acid potential (HCN-p) of young chamber-grown sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] seedlings (2). The procedure was based on determination of p-hydroxybenzaldehyde (P-HB) released when dhurrin [p-hydroxy-(S)-mandelonitrileI3-D-glucoside], the cyanogenic compound of sorghum, was autoclaved in water. The absorbance spectrum of p-HB in alkaline solution has a pronounced peak at 330 nm. Autoclaved extracts of leaves from young seedlings displayed absorbance spectra very similar to that of pure p-HB (2); for such leaves A3 30 values of extracts diluted in base, provided a reliable measure of HCN-p (2,6). This seedling assay procedure was used successfully in a program of divergent selection for HCN-p in sudangrass [So sudanense (Piper) Stapf] (3). Absorbance spectra of extracts from young fieldgrown sorghum tillers differed appreciably from that of pure p-HB (6). Spectra of some tiller extracts lacked a 330-nm peak; those of other extracts had peaks at 330 nm, but their shape suggested extensive non-pHB absorbance at 330 nm. Reliability of the spectrophotometric procedure for use with tillers was improved by fractionating the autoclaved tiller extracts with ether. The p-HB in these extracts was soluble in the ether phase whereas most of the interfering materials remained in the aqueous phase (5). We have observed that when extracts obtained by autoclaving fresh field-grown sorghum flag leaves were diluted in base and scanned, the resulting spectra lacked well defined peaks at 330 nm. However, spectra obtained from oven-dried samples had well 1158 defined 330-nm peaks. The objective of this study was to investigate the effects of leaf drying and other treatments on the spectra of leaf extracts and on the HCN-p values based on these spectra. In the course of these experiments, the spectrophotometric procedure for seedlings (2) was modified, making it satisfactory for use with field-grown sorghum leaves. MATERIALS AND METHODS
The sublimation of solid urea particles suspended in a carrier gas is of greatest interest with respect to the reduction of nitric oxides produced during combustion. Caton and Siebers [1] investigated the decomposition of dry urea at high temperatures and showed that urea decomposes into ammonia and isocyanic acid. Both molecules axe able to reduce the NO content of exhaust gas under certain conditions. In practice, a generated urea aerosol could be added to the hot exhaust gases of a combustion system in order to reduce the nitric oxide concentration. The rate of removal depends on temperature due to both the temperature dependence of the urea particle sublimation and temperature-dependent rate coefficients of the NO removal reactions. In the present investigation the sublimation of urea particles suspended in argon was investigated at high temperatures. The aerosol was generated by heterogeneous condensation in a specially designed aerosol generator. Before each experiment the particle size distribution function was determined by an opticle particle counter. The shock tube technique was applied to study the aerosol sublimation process under well defined temperature and pressure conditions. A shock wave running through the gas/paxticle mixture causes a gasdynamic heating of the aerosol and initiates the sublimation of the urea particles. The time-dependent decrease of the particle size was followed by light scattering measurements. A He-Ne-laser was directed through the shock tube perpendicular to the tube axis. The scattered light was detected under three fixed angles (20 ° , 30 ° , and 45°). An example of measured scattered light intensities obtained from an individual experiment is illustrated in Fig. 1. After shock arrival, the intensity signals increase due to aerosol compression followed by a signal decrease caused by sublimation of the particles. The intensity signals obtained were compared with calculated Mie intensities resulting in time-dependent values of the particle radius. Results are shown in Fig. 2 where the square of the particle radius is plotted as a function of time. The initial decrease of particle size can be approximated by a straight line illustrating the
Hydrocyanic acid and soluble cyanides are considered to be one of the most powerful poisons, and are said to belong to the first rate poisons, that is, the ones with the most efficient and poisonous effect.. According to the clinical survey, which might be different depending on the dosage, the dominant are dyspnoea, convulsions, tension fall, a rapid filiform pulse, breathing is getting rare and insufficient, and death is the result of respiratory center paralysis. Apart from anamnesis and hetero-anamnesis, two signs are leading us towards the diagnosis, that is, the smell of the bitter almond and pink skin color. Therapy is top urgent in cases of this kind of poisoning, therefore, all therapeutic measures are to be taken simultaneously: general, symptomatic and specific. Case report: A mother made a call in the early hours in the morning reporting on her son's claim to kill himself having drunk 'some' cyanides. The call was received as the first rate urgency, the medical team found themselves on the occurrence spot in three minutes and met a seventeen-year-old boy, who was conscious, orientated and informs us on taking the tablet of calium cyanide of 500 mg. His color skin is normal, eupnonic, slightly tachicardic, TA=120/70 mmHg. In the course of anamnesis, the boy suddenly lost consciousness, which was followed my a bout of convulsion, his skin was getting pink, and there was a smell of bitter almond in his mouth. Symtomatic measures were taken (intravenous way, endotracheal intu-bation, anticolvusive therapy oxigenotherapy) whereas, the specific measures could not be taken due to the lack of antidot within all emergency outpatients in Serbia. The patient was transported with adequate monitoring to the department of anesthesiology and intensive therapy, but unfortunately passed away, due to the lack of antidot.
The red variety of kidney beans was subjected to various methods of processing to determine the processing method that was most effective in destroying the anti-nutritional factors while preserving the nutrient content of the seeds. The processing methods were sun-drying (raw seeds), boiling, toasting, boiling/fermenting and sprouting. The five processing methods were replicated three times in a completely randomized design. The anti-nutritional factors investigated were trypsin inhibitor, hydrocyanic acid (HCN), tannins, phytic acid, oxalate and haemagglutinins. The effects of processing method on the proximate composition and profile of amino acids were also investigated. The results showed that fermented seeds had significantly (P 0.05) significantly. Fermented kidney bean seeds had the highest percent destruction of trypsin inhibitor of 97.42, followed by boiling, sprouting and toasting whose values were 94.85, 89.69 and 88.92, respectively. The per cent destruction of HCN was 71.30, 67.48 81.45 and 58.40 for boiled, toasted, fermented and sprouted kidney beans, respectively, and that of tannin was 80.84, 39.62, 82.58 and 84.91 respectively. Each processing method significantly (P<0.01) reduced all the anti-nutritional factors relative to the raw seeds. Boiling, toasting or fermentation is recommended for processing kidney beans for use in the diets of monogastric animals.
Trimerization thiocyanic acid was a new type of multifunctional and fine chemically product.The application and progress of trimerization thiocyanic acid as curing agent of acrylate rubber,polychloroether elastomer,tackifier for curing adhesion of rubber and metal,and as crosslinking agent of other rubber and plastic products were introduced in details.The development trend of trimerization thiocyanic acid was pointed out.
The structural, vibrational, and photochemical study of 1-methylhydantoin (1-MH, C4H6N2O2) was undertaken by matrix isolation infrared spectroscopy (in argon matrix; 10 K), complemented by quantum chemical calculations performed at the DFT(B3LYP)/6-311++G(d,p) level of approximation. The theoretical calculations yielded the Cs symmetry structure, with planar heavy atom skeleton, as the minimum energy structure on the potential energy surface of the molecule. The electronic structure of this minimum energy structure of 1-MH was then studied in detail by means of the natural bond orbital (NBO) and atoms in molecules (AIM) approaches, allowing for the elucidation of specific characteristics of the molecule's σ and π electronic systems. The infrared spectrum of the matrix-isolated 1-MH was fully assigned, also with the help of the theoretically predicted spectrum of the compound, and its UV-induced unimolecular photochemistry (λ ≥ 230 nm) was investigated. The compound was found to fragment to CO, isocyanic acid, methylenimine, and N-methyl-methylenimine. Finally, a thermal behavior investigation on 1-MH samples was carried out using infrared spectroscopy (10 K until melting), differential scanning calorimetry and polarized light thermal microscopy. A new polymorph of 1-MH was identified. The IR spectra of the different observed phases were recorded and interpreted.
(57) Abstract: The present invention includes a polyphenylene sulfide, a polymer grafting agent, relates to a polymer composition containing the ethylene copolymer. The polymeric grafting agents are ethylene least about 50 wt%, from about 0.5% to about 15 wt%, (i) 4 to 11 unsaturated epoxide carbon atoms, (ii) carbon atoms 2 to 11 number of unsaturated isocyanic acid ester, and (iii) at least one first reactive moiety in which an alkyl group is selected from the group consisting of an alkoxysilane or alkylsilane, and (iv) an oxazoline consisting 1-12 carbon atoms from about 0 to about 49 wt%, the alkyl and ether groups are of 1-12 carbon atoms, acrylic acid alkyl esters, at least one of alkyl methacrylate, vinyl ether, carbon monoxide, and sulfur dioxide a copolymer of a second moiety selected from. The ethylene copolymer is an ethylene copolymer constituting from about 1% to about 20 wt%, of at least about 50 weight percent ethylene and from about 1% to 35% by weight of acid-containing unsaturated mono and carboxylic acid, from about 0 to about 49 wt%, a copolymer containing acrylic acid alkyl esters, methacrylic acid alkyl esters, vinyl ethers, carbon monoxide, and at least one from a moiety selected sulfur dioxide, and further, acid group with a metal ion in the copolymer are neutralized 0 to 100%. Polymeric grafting agent, the molar ratio of ethylene copolymer is preferably in the range of from about 1.0 to about 5.5.
The two-nuclei quadrupole hyperfine structure of four a Q!-subbranch transitions of deuteroisothiocyanic acid, DNCS, has been resolved and analyzed by use of a waveguide microwave Fourier transform spectrometer. The analysis yielded one previously unknown quadrupole coupling constant (X-=Xbb-Xcc) for both nitrogen (x N -= +27.6(11) kHz) and deuterium X-= +175.8(11) kHz). Taking into account the results from earlier work on HNCS, DNCS, HNCO, and DNCO, the orientations of the principal axis systems of the two quadrupole coupling tensors could be calculated. It appears that while the deuterium tensor is aligned to the D-N internuclear axis as expected, the nitrogen tensor is tilted away from the bisector of the DNC angle by 13° towards the NCS chain.
Although the rotational spectrum of isothiocyanic acid, HNCS, and its isotopomers have been investigated in a number of publications, only one rather recent work by Rodler et al. [1] seems to have dealt primarily with the nuclear quadrupole hyperfine structure. In that work, the coupling constants x aa of both HNCS and DNCS were determined with high precision, using a molecular beam microwave Fourier transform (MB-MWFT) spectrometer of the BalleFlygare type. In addition, a value for the coupling constant x N -=Xbb~Xcc was obtained for HNCS, using a waveguide microwave Fourier transform (MWFT) spectrometer.
It is able to provide information on the chemical composition of biological samples from one single spectrum in a noninvasive and ultrafast way, without the need for sample preparation [9] . Therefore, we intended to explore whether carbamoylation as assessed by NIR analysis of nail proteins is associated with (a) plasma concentrations of uremic toxins and (b) mortality in HD patients. Carbamoylation is a nonenzymatic and irreversible post-translational modification during which a carbamoyl group (-CONH 2 ) is added to proteins, peptides and amino acids by reaction with isocyanic acid, resulting in the formation of an irreversible covalent bond. Isocyanic acid originates mainly (1) from the spontaneous decompostion of urea into ammonium and cyanate, a reactive ion that is quickly converted to isocyanic acid, or (2) from myeloperoxidase (MPO)-catalyzed oxidation of thiocyanate at sites of inflammation, including atherosclerotic plaques, or (3) from environmental factors [2, 10] . In chronic kidney disease, urea accumulates and elevates the concentration of isocyanic acid. The latter rapidly reacts with the α-amino group of peptides, proteins (e.g., nail keratins) or amino acids and with the ε-amino group of lysine, which results in the formation of homocitrulline (ε-amino-carbamoyl-lysine) [2] .
Abstract. Rubber leaves are a large by-product of rubber plantations which could serve as an important source of unconventional feed of agro by-product origin. However, it contains antinutritional factors which limits it utilization on a large scale as feed for animal nutrition. This study seeks to improve the nutritional value of rubber leaves meal through hydrothermal processing. Fresh leaves of rubber were collected from Rubber Research Institute of Nigeria in Benin City, and divided into five batches; four of these batches were subjected to varying periods of hydrothermal processing namely, 5, 10, 15 and 20 minutes, while one batch was kept as control without processing. Result reveals significant reduction in phytic acid, Hydrocyanic acid and Tannin as the processing time progressed. However, crude protein increased till the 10 th min and significantly reduced thereafter and contrary to this, fat and ash significantly reduced as the time increased. Nutritional trials with various animals are recommended to evaluate feed utilization as a result of this processing method.
OBJECTIVE ::: To develop an indirect immunofluorescence assay (IFA) for detection of IgG antibodies against new bunyavirus. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: The antigen slides were prepared with 5 new bunyavirus strains isolated using Africa green monkey kidney (Vero) cells. Specificity and sensitivity evaluation of IFA were carried out by optimizing working conditions of IFA. Using established IFA, serum samples from both acute and recovery phases were tested for 126 cases with fever thrombocytopenia and leukopenia syndrome in Xinyang, Henan province in 2007 - 2011. The results were compared with detections by RT-PCR. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: The new bunyavirus stable immunofluorescence specific WZ69 strain was selected to prepare antigen slides of IFA. The optimum conditions of IFA were: optimum dilution for primary antibody (serum) and secondary antibody (isosulfocyanic acid fluorescence marked goat anti-human IgG antibody) was 1:40 and 1:150 respectively. The optimum dilution for Evans blue in secondary antibody was 1:20 000. Among the 126 patients, 96 paired serum specimens were tested positive to the new bunyavirus and 30 patients were tested negative to the virus. The positive rate of antibodies was 76.19%. There was no significant difference in results between IFA and RT-PCR (72.22% (91/126)) (P > 0.05). ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: The IFA has high sensitivity and specificity with easy operation. It can be used in detecting the new bunyavirus infection in patients with fever, thrombocytopenia and leukopenia syndrome.
The present invention describes a process for preparing an amide compound, wherein the corresponding amide compound by the action of a nitrile hydratase prepared from nitrile compound, wherein the decrease in the concentration of hydrocyanic acid component comprises a nitrile-containing compound by a chemical method and the nitrile hydratase to act on the nitrile compound. Corresponding to the present invention, can be effectively suppressed to reduce the nitrile hydratase activity, it can be effectively prepared by an amide compound from a nitrile compound.
Summarizes complaints from both nurserymen and from orchardmen relative to injury to nursery trees when fumigated with hydrocyanic acid gas and the factors involved. The need of further experiments with the gas and additional materials and probable plans for such investigations are suggested.
Borassus aethiopum (African palmyrah palm) shoots was analysed for its nutritional and antinutritional compositions. The proximate composition showed 56.33%w/w moisture, 11.2%DW crude fibre, 6.9%DW crude protein and 81%DW available carbohydrate. Mineral content (per 100g dried sample) indicates the presence Mg (640mg), Ca (433.3mg), K (236.7mg), Mn (12.85mg), Zn (12.74) and Fe (11.5mg/100gDW) as the most abundant. The level of toxic Pb and Cd in the shoot is of great concern considering their health effect. Amino acids analyses showed that the shoot is not a good protein source when compared to WHO/FAO/UNU reference standard for school children. Nevertheless, the shoot contains an appreciable amount of essential amino acids (lysine, threonine, phenylalanine and tyrosine) above the reference standard for adult. The concentrations of hydrocyanic acid, nitrate, oxalate and phytate were lower than the reference toxic standard level. The results indicate that the B. aethiopum shoot is a food stuff with appreciable levels of both macro and micro nutrients as well as safe levels of antinutritional factors.
The Dutch States Mines process for 2-pyrrolidone is outlined. First, hydrocyanic acid is added to acrylonitrile under the catalytic influence of triethylamine, to produce succinic acid dinitrile. Second, succinic dinitrile is hydrogenated in a trickle base reactor. Third, the (gamma)-aminobutyric acid nitrile formed is hydrolyzed. Vapors distilled lead to 2-pyrrolidone. The DSM process is compared to three others: the Reppe route, the MAA route, and the acrylate route. The production of 2-pyrrolidone via the DSM route gives a cost that is about 25% lower than that of the next cheapest, the MAA route. The current market for 2-pyrrolidone is reviewed.
Oyster mushroom (Pleurotus ostreatus) was collected at the button (day-old) and full-grown (mature) stages from dead mango tree stumps in a tropical garden. Both the samples were evaluated for proximate composition. Phyto-chemical (toxic) substances were determined in the raw and boiled (full-grown) samples. Changes in sensory quality and weight losses in samples stored as such or packed in polyethylene bags at room temperature or in the evaporator coolant structure, (a locally developed Nigerian cool storage device) were evaluated over 6 days. Results indicated that P ostreatus contains significantly higher (P < 0.05) levels of crude protein and nitrogen-free extract at the full-grown stage than at the button stage. Levels of Mg and Cu were also higher (P < 0.05) in the mature stage. Levels of toxic substances in the raw mushroom ranged from 1.16 mg/100g (hydrocyanic acid) to 42.24 mg/100g (phytic acid). Boiling, significantly reduced (P<0.05) toxic levels. Mode and duration of storage had significant effects (P<0.05) on sensory quality, shelf-life and weight loss. Packaging and cool storage brought about marked reduction in losses of sensory quality and weight.
The deuterium quadrupole hyperfine structure has been resolved in the 6(1, 5)-6(1, 6) transition of deutero-isocyanic acid (DNCO), and has been used to evaluate the previously undetermined coupling constant (Χbb - Χcc)- With the assumption of cylindrical symmetry for the deuterium quadrupole coupling tensor its principal values have been estimated and have been found to be in excellent agreement with a theoretical prediction. Within experimental error the z-principal quadrupole axis and the D -N internuclear axis coincide.
A class of room-temperature ionic liquids (RTILs) that exhibit hypergolic activity toward fuming nitric acid is reported. Fast ignition of dicyanamide ionic liquids when mixed with nitric acid is contrasted with the reactivity of the ionic liquid azides, which show high reactivity with nitric acid, but do not ignite. The reactivity of other potential salt fuels is assessed here. Rapid-scan, Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy of the preignition phase indicates the evolution of N 2O from both the dicyanamide and azide RTILs. Evidence for the evolution of CO 2 and isocyanic acid (HNCO) with similar temporal behavior to N 2O from reaction of the dicyanamide ionic liquids with nitric acid is presented. Evolution of HN 3 is detected from the azides. No evolution of HCN from the dicyanamide reactions was detected. From the FTIR observations, biuret reaction tests, and initial ab initio calculations, a mechanism is proposed for the formation of N 2O, CO 2, and HNCO from the dicyanamide reactions during preignition.
Abstract Plants emit various volatile organic compounds (VOCs) upon herbivore attack. These VOC emissions often show temporal dynamics which may influence the behavior of natural enemies using these volatiles as cues. This study analyzes on-line VOC emissions by roots of Brassica nigra plants under attack by cabbage root fly larvae, Delia radicum. Root emitted VOCs were detected using Proton-Transfer-Reaction Mass Spectrometry (PTR-MS) and Gas Chromatography–Mass Spectrometry (GC–MS). These analyses showed that several sulfur containing compounds, such as methanethiol, dimethyl sulfide (DMS), dimethyl disulfide (DMDS), dimethyl trisulfide (DMTS) and glucosinolate breakdown products, such as thiocyanates (TC) and isothiocyanates (ITC), were emitted by the roots in response to infestation. The emissions were subdivided into early responses, emerging within 1–6 h after infestation, and late responses, evolving only after 6–12 h. The marker for rapid responses was detected at m / z 60. The ion detected at m / z 60 was identified as thiocyanic acid, which is also a prominent fragment in some TC or ITC spectra. The emission of m / z 60 stopped when the larvae had pupated, which makes it an excellent indicator for actively feeding larvae. Methanethiol, DMS and DMDS levels increased much later in infested roots, indicating that activation of enzymes or genes involved in the production of these compounds may be required. Earlier studies have shown that both early and late responses can play a role in tritrophic interactions associated with Brassica species. Moreover, the identification of these root induced responses will help to design non-invasive analytical procedures to assess root infestations.
In recent years new forms of cyanide have been developed which are known as cyanides of calcium. Such compounds are more or less unstable and ad vantage is taken of this property by simply exposing them, in a finely divided form, to the atmosphere in order to have hydrocyanic acid gas liberated. This method of fumigation particularly as applied to citrus was developed by the writer in California in 1922 and in the following year he introduced it into Australia where it has now largely replaced the older methods of fumigation, It is also used as an effective method of controlling the rabbit which is the leading pest of that country. During the past year a practically pure calcium cyanide has appeared which overcomes the chief objection to the first material in that the dust residue is not so injurious to the tree in sections having a moist atmosphere. Hydrocyanic acid in dust form escapes through canvas covers less readily than does the same gas from liquid hydrocyanic acid. The method of application is simply to blow the cyanide dust under the tented tree or space and the moisture of the air in contact with the dust particles generates the gas.
HCN (hydrocyanic acid) and NH3 (ammonia) (including HNCO (isocyanic acid)) released during rapid pyrolysis of three biomass samples (rice straw, chinar leaves, pine sawdust) and a nitrogen rich material (soybean cake) were measured. The pyrolysis runs were conducted at 600−1200 °C using a high-frequency furnace. Much more HCN than NH3 was released in the biomass runs while the reverse was observed in the soybean cake runs. Because lignin was a common constituent of biomass cells and nearly absent in soybean, the effect of its content on HCN release from the biomass was determined. A strong correlation was established for each biomass sample suggesting that lignin may promote formation of heterocyclic nitrogenous compounds which then decompose to form HCN. HCN release and char/tar-N formation decreased at a higher pyrolysis temperature. Pyrolysis at >1000 °C is desirable since most nitrogen in the biomass will be converted to N2 with <7% released as HCN and NH3.
It is evident, that, with regard to such poisons as opium, strychnia, and hydrocyanic acid, the system possesses the power either of discharging or decomposing them.
Cassava (Manihot esculenta Crantz) is a major food source for a large part of the world population, particularly in tropics including India and it is the fourth most planted staple root crop after rice, wheat and cassava (Okezie and Kosikowski, 1982; Padmaja, 1995; Boby and Indira 2004) . Cassava contains the cyanogenic glycoside linamarin (93%), 2-(β-D-glucopyronosyloxy) isobutyronitrile and a small amount of lotaustralin (7%) (Nartey, 1968; Barret et al. 1978 ) and the presence of these two cyanogenic glucosides in cassava is a major factor limiting its use as food or feed (Padmaja 1995) . Hydrolysis of linamarin by endogenous β-glucosidase enzyme linamarase, present in cassava produces D-glucose, acetone and hydrocyanic acid (Conn, 1969) . It is also hydrolysed in the intestinal tract of both man and animals by the microbial flora (Winkler, 1958) . There are evidences suggesting large variation in goitrogen content in the same plant having same taxonomy but from different geographical regions (Michajlovskij and Langer, 1959) . Except cyanogenic glucosides, cassava of Indian origin also contains glucosinolates and thiocyanate in its edible part (Chandra et al. 2004 ). Regular consumption of cyanogenic glucosides, glucosinolates and thiocyanate, the goitrogenic / antithyroid constituents of cyanogenic foods, disrupt the biosynthesis of thyroid hormones in several ways and may develop endemic goitre in long run (Delange et al. 1982) . As there are only few experimental studies on cassava of Indian origin specially in the aetiopathogenesis of thyroid disorders, the present study was undertaken to evaluate the thyroid status after chronic consumption of cassava both as fresh and cooked under conditions of varying iodide intake in rats.
Glycerol carbonate can be produced from glycerol through reaction with phosgene or via transesterification with dimethyl or diethyl carbonate [16, 17] , however these acyclic organic carbonates are themselves commonly manufactured from phosgene [18] . Alternatives to employing phosgene include the use of urea [19] [20] [21] . This route has the advantages that urea is relatively inexpensive and the reaction can be carried out in the absence of a solvent, however this reaction produces ammonia as a waste product [22, 23] . The ammonia produced may promote the formation of isocyanic acid, therefore it is necessary to employ a vacuum system in order to remove NH 3 [22, 24] . A promising alternative is the direct carboxylation of glycerol with CO 2 [25] . The use of CO 2 also has advantages in making use of a highly available, low cost, waste material which contributes directly to climate change; CO 2 concentration in the atmosphere having reached 411 ppm in May 2018 [26] . The direct carboxylation of glycerol can therefore be considered as a green process, but it is thermodynamically limited [27] having a small chemical equilibrium constant: 1.3 × 10 −3 at 160 °C and 5 MPa [28] . Therefore, the reaction must be carried out at high pressure, > 5 MPa, and elevated temperature.
The deuterium quadrupole hyperfine structure has been resolved in the 6(1, 5)-6(1, 6) transition of deutero-isocyanic acid (DNCO), and has been used to evaluate the previously undetermined coupling constant (X bb -Zee)-With the assumption of cylindrical symmetry for the deuterium quadru pole coupling tensor its principal values have been estimated and have been found to be in excellent agreement with a theoretical prediction. Within experimental error the "-principal quadrupole axis and the D N internuclear axis coincide.
Over the years the microwave spectrum of isocyanic acid has received considerable attention [1 -4] , This is partly because the molecule has a rather unusual structure, in which all the heavy atoms are very close to the a-inertial axis, making the rotational constant A extremely large. It is also partly because the mole cule has been found in interstellar space [5] . Spectro scopic constants for several isotopic species have been reported, and have included the 14N quadrupole cou pling constants [1] .
Plants emit various volatile organic compounds (VOCs) upon herbivore attack. These VOC emissions often show temporal dynamics which may influence the behavior of natural enemies using these volatiles as cues. This study analyzes on-line VOC emissions by roots of Brassica nigra plants under attack by cabbage root fly larvae, Delia radicum. Root emitted VOCs were detected using Proton-Transfer-Reaction Mass Spectrometry (PTR-MS) and Gas Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry (GC-MS). These analyses showed that several sulfur containing compounds, such as methanethiol, dimethyl sulfide (DMS), dimethyl disulfide (DMDS), dimethyl trisulfide (DMTS) and glucosinolate breakdown products, such as thiocyanates (TC) and isothiocyanates (ITC), were emitted by the roots in response to infestation. The emissions were subdivided into early responses, emerging within 1-6 h after infestation, and late responses, evolving only after 6-12 h. The marker for rapid responses was detected at m/z 60. The ion detected at m/z 60 was identified as thiocyanic acid, which is also a prominent fragment in some TC or ITC spectra. The emission of m/z 60 stopped when the larvae had pupated, which makes it an excellent indicator for actively feeding larvae. Methanethiol, DMS and DMDS levels increased much later in infested roots, indicating that activation of enzymes or genes involved in the production of these compounds may be required. Earlier studies have shown that both early and late responses can play a role in tritrophic interactions associated with Brassica species. Moreover, the identification of these root induced responses will help to design non-invasive analytical procedures to assess root infestations.
Part I of this thesis presents the results of an investigation ::: of hydrogen bonding of methanol with aromatic hydrocarbons. ::: The infrared spectra of methanol in various solvents ::: indicate that the methanol molecules form weak hydrogen bonds ::: with aromatic hydrocarbons, probably at the center of the ::: aromatic ring. Part II of this thesis presents the results of an investigation ::: of the infrared spectrum of nitrous acid. The spectrum ::: indicates that there are two isomeric forms of nitrous acid, a ::: cis and a trans form. The rotational structure of the hydrogen ::: stretching band of the cis form indicates that the O=N-O angle ::: of cis nitrous acid is 113 ± 2°. A normal coordinate treatment ::: of HONO and DONO indicates that the strongest band in the spectrum ::: out to fifteen microns is the overtone of the O=N-O bending ::: vibration. On the basis of this treatment the frequencies ::: of the five in plane vibrations of trans nitrous acid have been ::: assigned as 3590, 1696, 1270, 825, and 413 cm -1 . In Part III the results of an investigation of the infrared ::: spectrum of isocyanic acid and isothiocyanic acid are presented. ::: For isocyanic acid the fundamental vibrational frequencies are ::: 3534, 2280, 1340, 779, 650, and 550 cm -1 . The last ::: frequencies were obtained from combination bands. For isothiocyanic ::: acid the fundamental vibrational frequencies are 3530, ::: 1972, 1000, 660, 616, and 543 cm -1 . The last three were ::: obtained from combination bands. From the rotational structure of the ::: N-H stretching bands of these two molecules we have calculated ::: that the effective H-N-C angle in the ground vibrational state ::: is 128°19' ± 40' for HNCO and 138°40' ± 1° for HNCS.
An experiment on the metabolite (salicylic acid (SA), jasmonic acid (JA), hydrocyanic acid (HCN) and chitinase activity) changes owing to seed treatment with pathogen, plant growth promoting rhizobacteria (PG- PRs) - (P. maltophilia, P. fluorescens and Bacillus subtilis) alone and in combination was conducted at Chaudhary Charan Singh, Haryana Agricul- tural University, Regional Research Station, Bawal. Jatropha curcas plants raised from root rot pathogen (Rhizoctonia bataticola) treated seeds showed an initial increase in SA and hydrocyanic acid HCN content and an oppo- site trend was observed for JA level and chitinase activity. Though, PGPRs inoculation resulted in higher increase in SA level, JA level and chitinase activity in both the cases alone as well as in integration with pathogen, however, maximum increase in JA content was explicited in plants raised after seed treatment with P. fluorescens, the most effective rhizobacteria amongst PGPRs studied. Highest increase in HCN content (45 μg g -1 ) over control (24 μg g -1 ) was noticed for P. fluorescens followed by co-seed in- oculation with P. fluorescens + pathogen (43 μg g -1 ) at 10 DPI. The co-seed inoculation elicited 68 units at 10 DPI whereas the pathogen challenged plants showed lower chitinase activity with 42 units. All the metabolites de- clined slightly or sharply with age of the plant irrespective of inoculations. Keywords metabolites, Jatropha curcas, rhizobacteria, Rhizoctonia bataticola.
Pearl millet (Pennisetum glaucum (L.) R Br.) is a monocot species having relatively small diploid genome (2n =14). Pearl millet locally known as Bajra, is also known as bulrush millet, cat tail or spiked millet. It is an excellent forage crop because of its low hydrocyanic acid content. The green fodder which is rich in protein, calcium, phosphorus and other minerals contains oxalic acid within a safe limit. The release of large number of pearl millet hybrids has increased the task as well as the responsibilities of seed technologists. Varietal description given by the breeders most often relate to field characters and not to seed or seedling characters. Biochemical and molecular markers can be effective means to determine varietal identification among different parental lines and their hybrids. Isozyme electrophoresis; SDS-PAGE, RAPD and SSR offer potentially simple, rapid and reliable techniques for varietal identification of Pearl millet. Isoelectric focusing, a newly traditional techniques can also be more useful for the identification of different pearl millet hybrids.
The unimolecular decomposition of expansion-cooled isocyanic acid (HNCO) via channels (1) 3 NH+CO, (2) H+NCO, and (3) 1 NH+CO [where 3 NH and 1 NH denote NH(X 3 Σ - ) and NH(a 1 Δ), respectively] has been investigated following photoexcitation to the S 1 ( 1 A) state in two energy regimes: (i) in the region of the 1 NH+CO threshold (41 700-45 500 cm -1 ; 240-220 nm), and (ii) ∼3200 cm -1 above D 0 ( 1 NH+CO), at around 46000 cm -1 (217.6 nm). Several complementary experiments are presented: NCO, 3 NH and 1 NH photofragment yield spectra and relative 1 NH/ 3 NH branching ratios are obtained by laser induced fluorescence (LIF); photofragment ion imaging is used to record CO angular recoil distributions, and 1 NH rotational distributions correlated with specific CO (v,J) levels. HNCO excited to S 1 undergoes complex dynamics reflecting simultaneous decomposition on several potential energy surfaces, and including internal conversion (IC) and intersystem crossing (ISC). In energy region (i), a progressive loss of structure in the 3 NH yield spectrum is observed above the opening of channel (3), and is interpreted as the imprint of short-time dynamics characteristic of the ISC step. State selectivity in the photodissociation is revealed by comparing the photofragment yield spectra of the three channels. In region (ii), product state distributions for channel (3) exhibit clear dynamical signatures, as expected for dissociation on S,. At low excess energies channel (2) derives from dissociation on S 0 , but the respective roles of S 0 and S 1 at higher energies are not well established yet. The results are discussed in terms of vibronic levels of mixed electronic character coupled directly or via radiationless decay to the various continua. The competition between the different processes depends sensitively on photolysis energy and excitation conditions.
Hydrocyanic acid an acrylonitrile plant utilizing exhaust orthoformate an industrial scale process, the use of an acrylonitrile plant wherein exhaust gas purification fractionation hydrocyanic made after the starting material, the corresponding alcohol, hydrohalic acids salified by alcoholysis, crystal separation step and distillation made, the whole in an inert solvent, wherein the use of an acrylonitrile plant exhaust gas composition: 70 to 95% of hydrocyanic acid, nitrogen, 2.0 to 28% ammonia 1.0 to 1.5 %, 1.0 to 1.5% of propylene; molar ratio of hydrogen cyanide to the reaction mass: the corresponding alcohol: hydrohalic acids 4.0:1.1 ~ ~ 1:3.5 = 1.25. The reaction temperature is a salt forming step: -20 ~ 10 ℃, alcoholysis step: 30 ~ 60 ℃; reaction time 24 ~ 72h. Compared with the traditional orthoformate preparation process, low cost, high yield, good quality; comprehensive utilization of energy resources, turning waste into treasure, they are environmentally friendly.
Carbamylation corresponds to the non-enzymatic binding of isocyanic acid, mainly derived from urea decomposition, on amino groups of proteins, and participates in their molecular aging. This process is increased during chronic kidney disease (CKD) because of hyperuremia, and in other pathologies like atherosclerosis, where isocyanic may be formed from thiocyanate by myeloperoxidase in atheroma plates. Carbamylation triggers structural and functional modifications of proteins, thus impairing their biological roles and their interactions with cells. Much experimental evidence in vitro has shown the potential deleterious effects of carbamylated proteins on cell and tissue functions. Carbamylation-derived products (CDPs), and especially their major component homocitrulline, accumulate in organism in long half-life proteins, and may participate in the development of different complications of CKD, especially cardiovascular diseases, renal fibrosis, or nutritional and metabolic troubles. Recent clinical studies have confirmed the link between serum protein carbamylation and morbi-mortality in patients suffering from CKD or undergoing hemodialysis. Some CDPs could be used as biomarkers in these pathologies.
The aim of this study was to assess the ability of selected metal resistant strains of the Pseudomonas genus to increase Zn, Cd and Cu uptake by the metalophyte Sinapis alba L. under laboratory conditions. Moreover, the mechanisms of the plant growth promotion in the tested strains and their impact on the shoots and roots of white mustard biomass were examined. Soil inoculation with the tested strains resulted in higher concentrations of Zn, Cd and Cu in the shoots and roots of the plants in comparison with those grown in non-inoculated soil. The highest phytoextraction enhancement was caused by Pseudomonas fluorescens MH15 which increased Zn, Cd and Cu accumulation in shoot tissue by 60%, 96% and 31%, respectively, in comparison with control plants. Moreover, all the tested strains also exhibited a significant increase of Cd translocation from roots to shoots of the white mustard. Three Pseudomonas putida (MH3, MH6, MH7) and two P. fluorescens biotype G and C (MH9 and MH15, respectively) strains had the ability to produce siderophore, 1-amino-cyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid deaminase, indole 3-acetic acid as well as hydrocyanic acid. Additionally, P. putida strains were also capable of solubilizing inorganic phosphate. The ability of the tested strains to increase the metal uptake in white mustard and their plant growth-promoting properties make them good candidates for supporting heavy metal phytoextraction as well as for plant growth promoting.
alpha-Hydroxynitrile lyase (ME-HNLs, E.C. 4.1.2.3.37) from the cyanogenic crop cassava(Manihot esculentz, Crantz) catalyze the condensation of hydrocyanic acid and aldehydes or ketone into (s)-cyanohydrins, which are valuable starting material for various optically active compounds, such as pharmaceuticals and agrochemicals. The cDNA of a ME-HNL were obtained by RT-PCR and cloned. The sequencing result for the cDNA showed that the sequence encoded for the ME-HNL was inconsistent with all those which are published, such as hnl10, hnl24, hnl4. The full sequence analysis demonstrated that the cloned cDNA was about 75.2%, 79.8%, 99.2% homologous to other three reported HNL genes from cassava, respectively, among which the last was the same to the cloned gene except the five base substitution at the site 142, 337, 476, 634 and 636, respectively. The two base substitutions lead to change the amino acid sequence, i.e., Ser113-->Gly113, Phe158-->Tyr158. To construct the recombinant plasmid pET30a-hnl, the cDNA was inserted into an expression vector pET30a. After transformation of pET30a-hnl and induction with IPTG, the ME-HNL was efficiently expressed in E. coli. BL21 (DE3) and reached over 2100 units/L of culture with the specific activity 8.5 u/mg protein. By one simple treatment, incubating 10 minutes at 70 degrees C, the recombinant ME-HNL may be used as an catalyst for production of (S)-mandelonitrile with enantiomeric excess of 95.2% and 98.2% yield.
Free energy, enthalpy and entropy changes for the 1 : 1 association of iso-thiocyanic acid with a series of organic sulphides, selenides, nitriles, thiocyanates, aromatic hydrocarbons and with nitromethane in carbon tetrachloride solution at 25°C are reported. The thermodynamic data are compared with those for other proton donor complexes and are discussed in terms of electro-negativity of the proton acceptor atom, ring strain, steric and inductive effects, and the frequency shifts of the fundamental vibrations of HNCS on bonding. ::: Departures from the Badger-Bauer rule for complexes with the more polar bases are attributed to an electrostatic interaction between the base and the NCS moiety of the acid. A rough correspondence between the enthalpy and entropy of association for all the bases studied is found and the factors influencing this relationship are briefly discussed. In particular, a correction for the effect of variation in mass of the base on the translational entropy contribution is shown to improve the ΔH/ΔS correlation slightly.
Abstract Elemental analysis, TGA and IR and UV spectroscopy have been used to investigate the reactions of thermal and oxidative degradation of polyacrylonitrile in oxygen-containing and inert media. It has been established that in mild conditions of thermal treatment the degradation reactions add up, in the main, to the release of hydrocyanic acid and water and to reactions associated with the oxidation of intermediate cyclic products. Comparison of the results of chemical analysis with those of spectroscopic study allow the authors to postulate the structure of the thermally treated product.
The four-component condensation of amines and carbonyl compounds with isocyanides11 and suitable acid components (water, thiosulfuric acid, hydrogen selenide, hydrogen azide, cyanic acid, thiocyanic acid, carboxylic acids, methyl hydrogen carbonate) to form α-amino acid derivatives was discovered in 1959. This reaction principle shares some features with the Strecker synthesis and the Passerini reaction. The four-component condensation affords easy and effective one-pot synthesis of complex molecules from simple building blocks. Only in recent years, however, have the preparative advantages of the four-component condensation been exploited by numerous authors in the synthesis of diverse natural products and related compounds, although many of the possibilities opened by this principle were recognized more than two decades ago. In this progress report some instructive syntheses of various antibiotics are reviewed. The design of each of these syntheses involves a four-component condensation as key step, by means of which lengthy sequences of reactions are avoided, which otherwise would be required to achieve the synthetic goal.
The sections in this article are ::: ::: ::: Introduction ::: The Andrussow Process ::: History ::: Fundamentals ::: Production of Liquid Hydrocyanic Acid ::: Pressure Variant ::: Oxygen Variant ::: Ammonia Recycling ::: ::: ::: Reactor and Catalyst ::: ::: ::: The BMA Process ::: Overview ::: Development of the Catalyst ::: Development of the BMA Tubes ::: Reactor Design ::: ::: ::: Mechanism and Kinetics of HCN formation in the BMA and Andrussow Processes ::: Kinetics and Mechanism of the BMA Process ::: Thermodynamic Context ::: HCN and N2 Formation ::: Coke Formation ::: On the Role of Gas-Phase Reactions ::: Catalytically Active Centers ::: ::: ::: Kinetics and Mechanism of the Andrussow Process ::: Thermodynamic Relationships ::: HCN Formation ::: HCN Hydrolysis ::: Catalytically Active Centers ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: Final Remarks ::: ::: ::: Keywords: ::: ::: shawinigan process; ::: Andrussow process; ::: BMA process; ::: reactor design and development; ::: thermodynamics; ::: high temperatures catalysis
The bacterial strain Mesorhizobium loti MP6, isolated from root nodules of Mimosa pudica induced growth and yield of Brassica campestris. The isolate MP6 secreted hydroxamate type siderophore in Chrom-Azurol Siderophore (CAS) agar medium. Production of hydrocyanic acid (HCN), indole acetic acid (IAA) and phosphate solubilizing ability was also recorded under normal growth conditions. Root hair curling was observed through simple glass-slide technique. In vitro study showed a significant increase in population of M. loti MP6 in rhizosphere due to root exudates of B. campestris. In dual culture technique the strain showed a strong antagonistic effect against Sclerotinia sclerotiorum, a white rot pathogen of Brassica campestris. The growth of S. sclerotiorum was inhibited by 75% after prolonged incubation. Efficient root colonization of mustard seedlings was confirmed by using a streptomycin-resistant marker M. loti MP6strep+. The M. loti MP6 coated seeds proved enhanced seed germination, early vegetative growth and grain yield as compared to control. Also, a drastic decline (99%) in the incidence of white rot was observed due to application of M. loti MP6.
During recent years there have appeared numerous descriptions of the effects of hydrocyanic acid, of hydrogen sulphide and especially of organic sulphydryl compounds in activating certain hydrolytic enzymes, for example, intracellular proteinases (cathepsins),' arginase2 and pancreatic amylase.3 Indeed, reduced glutathione has been called by WaldschmidtLeitz the natural activator of animal cathepsin and of arginase. Recently Perlzweig4 suggested that urease is associated with a sulphhydryl activator, possibly glutathione. This suggestion was based, in part, upon the old observation that cyanides and hydrogen sulphide reactivate crude urease preparations which have been "poisoned" by ions of heavy metals. Perlzweig assumes that the "poisoning" consists of the catalysis of the activator's oxidation and that the activator can be regenerated by the reducing action of cyanides and sulphides. Perlzweig also reported a weakening of the nitroprusside test (for sulphhydryl) accompanying the partial inactivation of crystalline urease by aeration. Sumner5 has given evidence that the protein-urease molecule itself contains a group which gives a nitroprusside test. Such groups are probably sulphhydryl. Furthermore Sumner's work indicates that highly active, recrystallized preparations of urease possess characteristic activities in the absence of supplementary material such as glutathione. It has appeared to us that some of the phenomena in this field might be ascribed not to changes in a supplementary activator but to oxidation of and regeneration of the sulphhydryl groups of the enzyme itself. Accordingly, we have put this working hypothesis to a test with crystalline urease preparations and we shall report in this preliminary communication only sufficient of our experiments to indicate typical results. It is a pleasure to acknowledge the cooperation of Dr. J. B. Sumner and Dr. D. B. Hand who enabled us to obtain highly active jackbean meal and advised us in the preparation of crystalline urease. Crystalline urease was used throughout the investigation except when it was occasionally desired to compare its behavior with that of the usual crude preparations. The reactions with the various reagents studied were carried out at room temperature. Conductivity water was used throughout this work. For the determination of urease activity a mixture corresponding to 2.5 ml. of freshly prepared "crystalline urease" solution diluted with water or other reagents to 5.0 ml., was added to 25.0 ml.
In some industries, the temperature and the humidity will vary greatly between different work places, such as outdoor work in arctic or tropical climates. There is therefore a need to test respirator filters at conditions that simulate conditions that are relevant for the industries that they are used in. Filter cartridges were exposed to controlled atmospheres of varying isocyanate concentration, air humidity, and temperature in an exposure chamber. For isocyanic acid (ICA) and methyl isocyanate (MIC), the exposure concentrations were between 100 and 200 p.p.b., monitored using a proton transfer reaction mass spectrometer. ICA and MIC were generated by continuous thermal degradation of urea and dimethylurea. The breakthrough was studied by collecting air samples at the outlet of the filter cartridges using impinger flasks or dry samplers with di-n-butylamine as derivatization reagent for isocyanates followed by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analysis. For hexamethylene diisocyanate (HDI) and isophorone diisocyanate (IPDI), the exposure concentrations were between 4 and 20 p.p.b. and were generated by wet membrane permeation. To reveal the profile of adsorption in different layers of the respirator filters, representative samples from each of the layers were hydrolyzed. The hydrolysis products hexamethylene diamine and isophorone diamine were determined after derivatization with pentafluoropropionic anhydride (PFPA) followed by LC-MS/MS analysis. The two filter types studied efficiently absorbed both ICA and MIC. There was no trend of impaired performance throughout 48-h exposure tests. Even when the filters were exposed to high concentrations (approximately 200 p.p.b.) of ICA and MIC for 96 h, the isocyanates were efficiently absorbed with only a limited breakthrough. The majority of the HDI and IPDI (>90%) were absorbed in the top layers of the absorbant, but HDI and IPDI penetrated farther down into the respirator filters during 120 h of exposure as compared to 16 h exposure.
This paper describes the reaction of the simplest isocyanate, isocyanic acid, conveniently generated in situ from sodium cyanate, with nucleophilic carboxylate and amino residues in polyamide fibres. Changing the pH conditions greatly affects the outcome of these reactions: under acidic conditions the carboxylate residues are selectively carbamoylated, whereas under neutral conditions both residues are carbamoylated. Such modifications greatly change the dyeing behaviour of the treated substrates. The carboxylate carbamoylation reaction leads to the formation of amides rather than the carbamoylcarboxylate, which is a reactive intermediate.
Herbicides may raise, lower, or not affect the concentration of poisonous compounds in plants. Herbicides, 2,4,5-T and silvex controlled Wasatch milkvetch (Astragalus miser var oblongifolius) and markedly reduced the concentration of miserotoxin, a poisonous aliphatic nitro compound. The concentration of phototoxic furocoumarins in the leaves of spring parsley (Cymopterus watsonii) decreased to nontoxic concentrations 4 to 5 weeks after treatment with 2,4-D. The hydrocyanic acid content of wild cherry (Prunus spp) decreased after treatment with 2,4-D and 2,4,5-T, but increased in Sudangrass (Sorghum halapense) after treatment with 2,4-D. The alkaloid concentration in Barbey larkspur (Delphinium barbeyi) increased after treatment with 2,4,5-T or silvex, decreased in horsetail (Equisetum palustre) after treatment with MCPA, and was unaffected in Datura after treatment with several herbicides. The effect of herbicides on nitrate concentration in plants was dependent upon the species of plant and the herbicide used.
Except isocyanic acid detected in the ISM since 1972 a , the organo isocyanate derivatives are poorly studied in the millimeter wave domain. This lack of data could be the reason of their non detection in the ISM up to now. We decided to investigate the C 3 H 3 NO 2 isomer: acetyl isocyanate. Previously measured up to 40 GHz b , the cis-conformer exhibits internal rotation motion with a medium barrier value of 360 cm −1 . The trans conformer conformer is calculated to have an energy of 12.55 kJ.mol −1 (1060 cm −1 ) higher than the cis one c and is not studied here. The measurements were performed in Lille with our solid state devices spectrometer up to 500 GHz. The sample was found to have a poor stability and reacts fastly with metal parts. We should repeat measurements using a flow and a pyrex cell in order to have satisfactory signal to noise ratio. 
The bacterial strain Mesorhizobium loti MP6, isolated from root nodules of Mimosa pudica induced growth and yield of Brassica campestris. The isolate MP6 secreted hydroxamate type siderophore in Chrom-Azurol Siderophore (CAS) agar medium. Production of hydrocyanic acid (HCN), indole acetic acid (IAA) and phosphate solubilizing ability was also recorded under normal growth conditions. Root hair curling was observed through simple glass-slide technique. In vitro study showed a significant increase in population of M. loti MP6 in rhizosphere due to root exudates of B. campestris. In dual culture technique the strain showed a strong antagonistic effect against Sclerotinia sclerotiorum, a white rot pathogen of Brassica campestris. The growth of S. sclerotiorum was inhibited by 75% after prolonged incubation. Efficient root colonization of mustard seedlings was confirmed by using a streptomycin-resistant marker M. loti MP6 strep+ . The M. loti MP6 coated seeds proved enhanced seed germination, early vegetative growth and grain yield as compared to control. Also, a drastic decline (99%) in the incidence of white rot was observed due to application of M. loti MP6.
Brazilian central high plains region, cerrado, has a wide variety of tasty endemic fruits, which grow in its extensive biome. Most of those fruits are consumed fresh, but in the last few years several derivatives such as ice-creams, jellies, deserts, and fermented drinks have become popular and appreciated by local buyers and tourists, showing potential for production expansion and export. Many studies have reported on the nutrient content and physical and chemical properties of these fruits and their processed derivatives (SILVA et al., 2004; ROCHA et al., 2008; GOMES; MARTINS, 2009 ) although other important factors such as the presence of toxic or potentially hazardous compounds have not been as commonly studied. Several toxins such as hydrocyanic acid and acetogenins and anti-nutritional factors (trypsin inhibitors, lectins, and others) have been found in different vegetable foods and even in seeds of edible fruits (ARAÚJO, 2004; MIDIO; MARTINS, 2000; CARAMORI; LIMA; FERNANDES, 2004) . The risk of intoxication or poisoning is not high when fruits are consumed fresh, but it increases in industrial derivatives since seeds may be partially broken during pulp removal. Several researches have reported significant concentrations of cyanides in peach and cherry juices and wines (FERNANDEZ; NOVELLI, 1997), but to this date, there are no clinical data available about poisoning by cyanide or any other compound present in fruit derivatives in Brazil. The bioassay method using the micro-crustacean Artemia salina has been commonly used in ecotoxicological tests, and more recently it proved sensitive, accurate, and reliable to detect of toxic and bioactive compounds in plant extracts (PARRA et al., 2001; LACHUMY et al., 2010; POUR; SASIDHARAN, 2011) and also to detect hidrocyanic acid in cassava and kernels of cherry, plum, peach, mango, and advocado (GARCIA-RODRIGUEZ et al., 2009) . Bioassay methods have the advantage of being able to detect global toxicity, i.e., any toxic compound to which the bioindicator would be sensitive and not only a specific target toxin. They also allow toxin identification and quantification using dose -response curves when pure toxin standards are available (GARCIA-RODRIGUEZ et al., 2004 . Bioassay is a rapid and economic alternative option, quite suitable in small laboratories with limited resources.
In some industries, the temperature and the humidity will vary greatly between different work places, such as outdoor work in arctic or tropical climates. There is therefore a need to test respirator filters at conditions that simulate conditions that are relevant for the industries that they are used in. Filter cartridges were exposed to controlled atmospheres of varying isocyanate concentration, air humidity, and temperature in an exposure chamber. For isocyanic acid (ICA) and methyl isocyanate (MIC), the exposure concentrations were between 100 and 200 p.p.b., monitored using a proton transfer reaction mass spectrometer. ICA and MIC were generated by continuous thermal degradation of urea and dimethylurea. The breakthrough was studied by collecting air samples at the outlet of the filter cartridges using impinger flasks or dry samplers with di-n-butylamine as derivatization reagent for isocyanates followed by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analysis. For hexamethylene diisocyanate (HDI) and isophorone diisocyanate (IPDI), the exposure concentrations were between 4 and 20 p.p.b. and were generated by wet membrane permeation. To reveal the profile of adsorption in different layers of the respirator filters, representative samples from each of the layers were hydrolyzed. The hydrolysis products hexamethylene diamine and isophorone diamine were determined after derivatization with pentafluoropropionic anhydride (PFPA) followed by LC-MS/MS analysis. The two filter types studied efficiently absorbed both ICA and MIC. There was no trend of impaired performance throughout 48-h exposure tests. Even when the filters were exposed to high concentrations ($200 p.p.b.) of ICA and MIC for 96 h, the isocyanates were efficiently absorbed with only a limited breakthrough. The majority of the HDI and IPDI (>90%) were absorbed in the top layers of the absorbant, but HDI and IPDI penetrated farther down into the respirator filters during 120 h of exposure as compared to 16 h exposure.
Citrullination or deimination, is a post-translational modification of proteins. It is closely related to numerous pathological conditions. Elevated levels of citrullinated proteins is characteristic in rheumatoid arthritis. Appropriate sample preparation and separational techniques combined with tandem mass spectrometry can be used for the analysis of proteins and for the identification of posttranslational modifications. Unfortunately, identification of protein citrullination by mass spectrometry is still a challenge due to the lack of appropriate targeted MS techniques. ::: The aim of my work was the investigation of the fragmentational behaviour of citrulline-containing peptides using collision induced dissociation tandem mass spectrometry. The main focus of my work was the detailed investigation of the neutral loss of isocyanic acid from citrulline side chain. This phenomenon was first observed by Hao et al. after collision induced dissociation. ::: ::: The first step of my experiments was to obtain the MS/MS spectra of model peptides bearing citrulline residues using an ion trap mass spectrometer. These peptides are based on the epitope regions of proteins involved in rheumatoid arthritis. Based on these preliminary experiments, three of the peptides with +1 or +2 charges were selected for energy-dependent tandem mass spectrometric measurements by a QqTOF mass spectrometer. ::: The results show that the neutral loss of isocyanic acid is the most characteristic if +1 charge state precursor ions with proton sequestering residues (Arg>>Lis≈His) and/or sequences fulfilling requirement of 0 ≤ ΣH+-Σbasic Aaa ≤ 1 are fragmented. In these cases, also sequence ions can be obtained by increasing the collision energy. ::: Based on my results, the selection of target peptides based on the neutral loss of isocyanic acid and subsequent peptide fragmentation/identification could be combined under appropriate experimental conditions. Such a new tandem mass spectrometric technique can be an effective method for identification of citrullinated residues even in complex biological samples.
From an examination of the microwave spectra of four isotopic species of isothiocyanic acid, Beard and Dailey (1) recently obtained the following values for the molecular parameters in the ground vibrational state.
The casava has 2 cyanogenic glucosides, Iinamarin and Iotaustralin which break down to hydrocyanic acid. Ingestion of uncooked casava will have same clinical pattern as in cyanide poisoning. So we recommend sodium nitrite 3 % and sodium thiosulfate 25 % as a treatment for casava poisoning as in cyanide poisoning.
Flag leaves of KS8 sorghum (Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] are low in dhurrin (p-hydroxy-(S)-mandelonitrile-p-D-glucosidel content and thus in hydrocyanic acid potential (HCN-p), and they contain little (if any) leucoanthocyanidin (LAC). Comparable leaves of 'Colman' sorghum are intermediate in HCN-p and high in LAC. This study was conducted to investigate the inheritance of HCN-p and LAC in crosses of KS8 X Colman. Flag leaves from field-grown plants of both parents; the Flo KS8 X Colman; the backcross, KS8 X (KS8 X Colman); and the F 2, (KS8 X Colman) selfed, were assayed for both HCN-p and LAC. Assays for HCN-p indicated that the backcross values provided a good fit to 1 intermediate:l low (Xl = 0.05, P = 0.82) and F2 results to 3 intermediate:l low (Xl = 0.96, P =0.33). For LAC, backcross results were 1 LAC +:1 LAC(Xl = 0.20, P = 0.65) and F2 values were 3 LAC+:1 LAC(exact fit). Classification for both traits yielded good fits to 1:1:1:1 for the backcross (Xl = 0.30, P = 0.96) and 9:3:3:1 for the F 2 (Xl = 3.24, P = 0.36). These results indicated that the difference in HCN-p between Colman and KS8 depended primarily on a single gene, the difference in LAC depended largely on a separate single gene, and the HCN-p gene and the LAC gene were not linked. A 1986 REPORT (1) indicated that a single gene difference was primarily responsible for the difference in dhurrin content (expressed as hydrocyanic acid potential, HCN-p) of mature leaves between KS8 (lowHCN-p) and N32 (high-HCN-p) lines of sorghum. Similarly, the large difference in flag-leaf leucoanthocyanidin (LAC) content between 'White Collier' (LAC-) and Colman (LAC+) sorghums depended largely on a single pair of genes (2). Both KS8 and N32 were LAC-, and the HCN-p values for flag leaves of both Colman and White Collier were intermediate between the values for KS8 and N32 (EA. Haskins and H.J. Gorz, 1988, unpublished observations). Therefore, the crosses used in the previous studies were considered inappropriate for investigating the possible linkage of the HCN-p and LAC traits. The objective of the present study was to investigate the segregation of these two traits in a cross of KS8 (low-HCN-p, LAC-) X Colman (intermediate-HCN-p, LAC+). Materials and Methods Colman (male-fertile), AKS8 (cytoplasmic male-sterile), and BKS8(male-fertile, sterility maintainer) sorghum plants weregrown at the Agronomy Farm, Lincoln, NE, during the summer of 1985. The status of Colman with respect to fertilityrestoration was unknown; therefore, to ensure that malefertile F, plants would be produced, BKS8 plants were hand emasculatedand pollinated with Colman pollen. In NovemFA Haskins, Dep, of Agronomy, and H.J. Gorz, USDA-ARS and Dep. ofAgronomy, Nebraska Agric. Res. Div.,Lincoln, NE 68583. Published as Paper no. 8484, Journal Series, Nebraska Agric. Res. Div. Research was conducted under Project no. 12-114. Received 27 Nov. 1987. *Corresponding author. Published in Crop Sci. 28:864-865 (1988) ber, 1985, the F, seed was sent to Puerto Rico (Tropical Agricultural Research Station, USDA-ARS, Mayaguez)where F, plants were self-pollinated to produce F2 seed, and were also used as pollen parents in backcrosses to AKS8. AKS8 X Colman crosses also were made during the summer of 1985 to obtain larger quantities ofseed from which F , plants could be grown for sampling. Plants of BKS8, Colman, the F, (AKS8 X Colman), the backcross [AKS8 X (BKS8 X Colman)], and the F2 [(BKS8 X Colman) selfed] were started in the greenhouse during the spring of 1986 and were transplanted to the Agronomy Farm on 29 May. Plants were placed 0.61 m apart in rows with a 0.76-m spacing. The experiment was planted in four replications, with each replication including one 10-plant row of each parent and the F" two rows of the backcross, and five rows of the F2• Thus, the experiment was designed to include 40 plants of each parent and the F I , 80 backcross plants, and 200 F2 plants. Entries were assigned at random to the 10 rows in each replication. Insufficient plants of both parents and the F, were available for transplanting; therefore, seeded rows of BKS8, Colman and the F, were used in two, three, and one of the replications, respectively. On 30 July, when panicles were emerging from most plants, the blade of the flagleaf was harvested from each plant. One KS8 and 21 F2 plants were not sufficiently advanced to allow positive identification of the flag leaf; for these plants, the blade ofthe youngest leaf with a visible collar was harvested. Midribs were removed from the leaf blades, and the remaining tissue was dried at 70 to 75°C overnight. The dry tissue was ground through a I-mm screen and stored in plastic vials at -18°C prior to extraction for assay. Extraction and assay for HCN-p were conducted as described previously (I) except that dhurrin was hydrolyzed enzymatically rather than with NaOH. The enzyme preparation was an extract made by soaking defatted almond meal (Sigma Chemical Co., St. Louis, MO)' in distilled water (8 mg mL -I) and filtering the suspension through Whatman no. 1 filter paper. To hydrolyze dhurrin, I mL of this filtrate was added to I mL of leaf extract, and the mixture was incubated in a parafilm-capped tube at room temperature for 1.25 h. Following this incubation, 8 mL of 0.1 MNaOH was added, and a l-mL portion of the resulting solution was assayed colorimetrically as described previously (I). The procedure described by Haskins and Gorz (2) was used for extraction and assay of LAC. Absorbance at 540 nm was used as a measure of LAC content. Results and Discussion Segregation for HCN-p Mean HCN-p values for KS8 and Colman were 29 and 135 mg kg-I, respectively, and standard errors were such that these means appeared to be well separated (Table 1). However, ranges in HCN-p for these two parents overlapped slightly, which caused some uncertainty in the classification of backcross and F2 plants as either low (L) or intermediate (I) in HCNp. As shown in the table, with 50 mg kg-I as the dividing line between the classes, only one of 37 KS8 plants was classified as I-HCN-p and only two of 40 Colman plants were classified as L-HCN-p. With this dividing line, 41 of the backcross plants were I-HCNI Names ofproducts are included for the benefit of the reader and do not imply endorsement or preferential treatment by the USDA or the Univ. of Nebraska.
1. Whole peel of grapefruit was extracted with 80% ethyl alcohol and separated into two distinct fractions, the alcohol-soluble and alcohol-insoluble solids. The carbohydrate constituents of these two fractions were investigated, and certain of their physical and chemical properties were determined. All analyses were made on fruit samples obtained from trees that had been fumigated with hydrocyanic acid or sprayed with oil for pest control during the growing season. 2. The alcohol-soluble fraction of the peel contained substances which liberated a small amount of carbon dioxide on hydrolysis with 12% hydrochloric acid. The total solids of this fraction composed 66.31% and 67.35% of the dry matter of the peel of fumigated and oil-sprayed fruit, respectively. 3. The soluble sugars in the peel averaged 40.29% and 41.28% of the dry weight of the fumigated and oil-sprayed fruit, respectively. These amounts of soluble sugars accounted for 60.76% and 61.28% (mean values) of the total alcoholic extractives. Appro...
Abstract The VUV-photolysis of the cyanato radical, NCO, formed in the reaction of isocyanic acid with fluorine atoms, leads to the formation of electronically excited CN fragments in the B-state. Excitation spectra in the range 105–200 nm and dispersed fluorescence spectra at selected wavelengths show that CN(B 2 Σ + ) fragments are formed below λ rmex = 145 ± 1 nm. These spectra provide the first information on some properties of the excited states of the NCO radical above 6.5 eV, resulting in the tentative assignment of a n s-Rydberg series. It is proposed that the first member, 3s, gives rise to dissociation from a bent state, while the second member, 4s, and probably all higher members are governed by linear dissociative configurations. A vibrational progression in the ν 1 -mode is superimposed on the 4s Rydberg transition.
It is usually assumed that seams of conical intersection are isolated features, that is, a displacement perpendicular to the seam leads to a removal of the degeneracy. However, this need not be the case. It has been shown that for triatomic molecules, there may exist a confluence of an accidental symmetry-allowed C2v seam of conical intersection with an accidental Cs seam of conical intersection of two states of the same symmetry. Here, we demonstrate the existence of a related confluence of seams of conical intersection in the tetra-atomic molecule isocyanic acid. Such confluences have not been previously reported. A perturbative analysis of the vicinity a seam of conical intersection is used to explain origin of this novel locus of conical intersection points.
The study envisaged assessing the general combining ability of the parents and specific combining ability of the ::: hybrids, using line x tester mating design. Thirty six hybrids derived from mating six testers with six lines in L x T design ::: along with their parents and checks were evaluated. The studies on combining ability indicated the predominance of ::: dominance variance than additive variance for the characters plant height, leaf length, stem girth, green fodder yield, dry ::: matter yield and hydrocyanic acid. This suggests the usefulness of heterosis breeding or any breeding plan which makes use ::: of specific combining ability effects for improvement in these traits.
6-Piperidino-3-azabicyclo[3.1.0]hexane-6-carboxamide diastereomers 1a and 2a represent conformationally rigid analogues of 3a which is a building block in some pharmaceutical compounds. A new access to these compounds 1a and 2a was found via the cleavage of bicyclic N,N-acetal 6 with hydrocyanic acid as the stereodetermining step. Reaction of derivatives 1a and 2a with bromodiphenyl-butyronitrile 14 gave cyclopiritramide isomers 1c and 2c, respectively. Qualitative preliminary investigations showed different affinities of 1c and 2c to the opiate-μ receptor. These results were discussed on the basis of an X-ray structural analysis of cyclopiritramide isomer 2c. 1-Benzylcyclopiperidine derivatives 1d and 2d were used as model systems for studying the conformation of cyclopiritramide isomer 1c and 2c, respectively.
The invention relates to a method for preparing gingko golden fungus fruit wine, which comprises the following steps that: golden fungus type spore and monoxenous stereum hirsutum parent strains are used for carrying out liquid bottle shaking seed culture of the golden fungus type spores, the seed tank culture of the golden fungus type spores, the bottle shaking seed culture of the autoecious stereum hirsutum, the bottle shaking expansion culture of the autoecious stereum hirsutum and the seed tank culture of the autoecious stereum hirsutum, the seed tank seed of the golden fungus type sporesand the seed tank seed of the autoecious stereum hirsutum are subjected to the mixed fermentation culture, ginkgo starch substrates and wine brewing yeasts are added into the mixed fermentation liquid of golden fungus type spores and the autoecious stereum hirsutum for carrying out post fermentation, the gingko golden fungus fruit wine with golden fungus extracellular polysaccharide, stereum hirsutum terpene, ginkgo flavone and bilobalide b can be obtained, the alcohol volume is higher than 3 percent, the ginkgo phenolic acid is smaller than 1ppm, and the hydrocyanic acid is lower than 0.1microgramme per liter. The gingko golden fungus fruit wine obtained by the method has an anti-radiation health care function.
Pu mpkin seeds were analysed for their nutritional and anti-nutrit ional co mposition, the results obtained were; mo isture content (5.00%), ash (5.50%), crude lipid (38.00%, crude fibre (1.00%), crude protein (27.48%), Available carbohydrate (28.03%) and calorific value (564kcal/ 100g). Elemental analysis shows that potassium is the most abundant element in the sample (273mg/100g) and manganese is least (0.06mg/100g).The anti-nutritional parameters analysed are; phytate (35.06 mg/100g ), o xalate (0.02±0.10mg/100g), hydrocyanic acid content (0.22±0.04mg/100g ) and nitrate (2.27±002mg/ 100g). The result shows that the pumpkin seeds if properly utilized can serve as good source of minerals.
Phytochemical constituents, proximate and mineral composition of Alchornea cordifolia (Schum and Thonn) Muell. Arg. (Euphorbiaceae)) (Christmas bush) leaf meal obtained from the Campus of Niger Delta University was investigated in order to evaluate its nutritional value for non- ruminant livestock since it is well known that the presence of antinutrients and toxic substances severely limits the nutritional benefits of leaf meals. The result of proximate composition showed that the leaf meal contained moisture (9.96±0.40%), crude protein (17.94±0.41%), carbohydrate (39.53±0.21 %), crude fat (4.34±0.23%), fatty acid (3.47±0.24%) energy (3.37 kcalg), ash (11.38±0.26%) and crude fibre (16.85±0.16 %). Elemental analysis revealed that the minerals detected in the leaf meal and their concentrations were Calcium (288 mg - kg ), Magnesium (22 mg - kg ), Potassium (7.25mg kg-1), Copper (32.5mg - kg ), Iron (192.5 mg - kg ) Manganese (58.35 mg - kg ) and Cobalt (40 mg- kg ). Aluminium, zinc, Phosphorus, Selenium and Sodium were not detected. The quantitative analysis of the detected phytochemicals in the leaf meal were Phytate (1.21%), Oxalate (0.86 %), Saponins (2.04%), Phenols (1.16 %), Cardiac glycosides (0.11 %) and Hydrocyanic acid (22.30 mg- kg ) while alkaloids, anthraquinones, tannins, flavonoids and steroids were not detected. The results showed low concentrations of all the phytochemicals. The nutritional quality of plants and vegetables are severely limited by the presence of antinutrients (oxalate, phytate) and toxic substances (cyanide, nitrate,). The low values of this substance in Alchornea cordifolia is an indication that the leaf meals may be recommended for nonruminant and human consumption. The results obtained in the present study indicate that the leaf meal made from Alchornea cordifolia leaves contain nutrients and mineral elements that make the product comparable to other leaf meals such as Gmelina leaf meal, Leucena leucocephala leaf meal, Ipomea batatas leaf meal, Gliricidia leafmeal and cassava leaf meal
Theoretical investigation of the solvent effects on the mechanism of the reaction of pentafulvenone with hydrocyanic acid to produce the main product of acid of type b was carried out at B3LYP/6-311+G level via the conductor-like polarizable continuum model(CPCM). The calculation results show that the reaction mechanism in solvent is consistent with that in gas phase. The free energies of each point in channel decrease,which was caused by the solvent effects. The solvent effects stabilize each species. The activating free energies in solution phase fall down,which was comparative to that in gas phase. The reaction proceeds easier and the activating free energies decrease more in the C=C attacking channel.
Abstract Cyanuric acid (C 3 N 3 (OH) 3 ) which is a polimerisation product of cyanic acid seems to become an interesting material in connection with the reduction of NO x in exhaust gases. In a possible practical application it is useful to add it in aerosol form to high temperature combustion gases. In the present investigation the evaporation of solid cyanuric acid particles suspended in argon was studied under various high temperature conditions. The aerosol was generated by heterogeneous condensation of evaporated bulk material in a specially designed aerosol generator. The shock tube technique was applied to evaporate the aerosol particles under homogeneous, well-controlled temperature and pressure conditions. The evaporation process was followed by time-resolved measurements of scattered light, originating from individual particles passing a very small optically defined scattering volume. The results obtained show a linear decrease of the particle size r P 2 with time in the evaporation zone of individual experiments. From a series of experiments performed under different temperature conditions the evaporation coefficient of cyanuric acid particles was determined, which can be interpreted as a diffusion coefficient of the respective vapour.
The synthesis of N-[4-dimethylamino-1-butyl(1-13C)-N-nitrosobenzamide], a powerful active-site-directed inhibitor of trypsin, is reported. An efficient use of 13C-cyanide ion was achieved in the reaction with 1-chloro-3-dimethylaminopropane, the first step of the synthesis. Acetonitrile was used as a co-solvent with water in that step; no evidence was found for cyanide ion exchange with acetonitrile. The earlier report of such an exchange appears to be in error; the formation of hydrocyanic acid under the reaction conditions can account for the observations.
Cassava root contains natural toxic cyanogenic glycoside compounds; linamarin and methyl-linamarin. Injury to root tuber of cassava releases linamarase enzyme from the ruptured cells, which then converts linamarin to poisonous hydrocyanic acid (HCN) [3] . Consumption of raw cassava root results to potential toxicity of cyanoglycosides which arises from enzymatic degradation to produce hydrogen cyanide thus causing acute cyanide poisoning to the subjects [4] . The acute dose of cyanide responsible to elicit toxicity is in the region of 1mg/kg body weight. Cases of acute poisoning have been associated with the substantial higher cyanide content in the outer part or cassava peel [5] .
The structure of degradation product of amine solutions, which existed in the devices of H2S recovery from the methanol acid waste gas was studied. According to GC-MS, the mechanism of the MDEA degradation reaction was proposed. The results showed that the reaction of carbon dioxide, water with MDEA accelerates the degradation of MDEA because of the existence of methanol、oxygen and hydrocyanic acid etc. Some inhibitory was measured to prevent the degradation of MDEA.
Abstract The catalytic performance of Cu/ZSM-5 and γ-alumina in the selective catalytic reduction of nitrogen oxides by alkenes in excess oxygen and the formation of potentially harmful by-products such as hydrogen cyanide, cyanic acid, ammonia, nitrous oxide and carbon monoxide have been studied by means of FT-IR-gas phase analysis. Over Cu/ZSM-5 the reduction activity was strongly influenced by the type of hydrocarbon, while there was no significant difference when starting from NO or NO2. In contrast, with γ-alumina NO2 was reduced more efficiently than NO with both reductants. Water addition strongly suppressed the catalytic activity of γ-alumina. Regarding the formation of undesired by-products, substantial amounts of carbon monoxide were observed in all experiments, independently of the feed composition. The type of catalyst, the use of either NO or NO2, the alkene used as a reductant and water strongly influenced the formation of other by-products. With alumina ethene showed a lower tendency to form HCN as compared to propene and water addition further suppressed by-product formation. This contrasts the findings with Cu/ZSM-5, where HCN production was not significantly altered by the presence of water. On this catalyst HNCO was found additionally for dry feeds, whereas ammonia appeared in the presence of water in the same temperature range. Under special feed gas compositions further by-products, formaldehyde and hydrocarbons, were found over Cu/ZSM-5, whereas none of these compounds were observed over γ-alumina.
The carotenoid composition of tea, mulberry, and cassava leaf has been determined by TLC on silica gel 60 with 75:15:10 (v/v) petroleum ether-diethyl ether-acetone as mobile phase. Spectrodensitometric detection was performed at 450 nm. The results showed lutein and β-carotene were the main carotenoids in all the leaves. Tannin was found in tea leaves at a level of 4.60 ± 0.07 g kg−1. The amount of cyanide in cassava leaf was equivalent to 918.31 ± 11.37 mg hydrocyanic acid kg−1. A pharmacokinetic study of total carotenoids was designed with three experimental fancy carp diets based on tea, mulberry, and cassava leaves as raw materials. The results showed that the maximum concentrations of serum total carotenoids in fish fed with tea, mulberry, and cassava leaves were 0.0022, 0.0016, and 0.0018 µg mL−1 48, 72, and 48 h after feeding, respectively (Tmax). The volumes of distribution were 23.40, 22.28, and 23.39 mL kg−1, total body clearance was 0.24, 0.30, and 0.41 mL h−1 kg−1, and the area under the concentration-time curve was 108.23, 79.74, and 60.58 µg h mL−1, respectively. It is concluded that when fish were fed a tea leaf diet carotenoids were absorbed more readily than from other diets. Similar serum astaxanthin levels were observed for fancy carp on all diets 48 h after feeding, and astaxanthin concentration in blood serum continued to increase with time. These studies indicated that irrespective of the lutein and β-carotene content of the three plant leaves in the diet, the fancy carp can convert them to astaxanthin in serum.
The Reactions of ethoxycarbonyl isothiocyanate (23) with 4, 5-substituted 2-amino-thiazoles (24) afforded thiazolo [3, 2-a]-s-triazine-4-thio-2-ones (25), N-alkoxycarbonyl-N'-(2-thiazolyl)thioureas (26), alkyl-N-(2-thiazolyl)carbamates (27), ethyl-N-ethoxycarbonyl thiocarbamate (28) and thiocyanic acid (7). However, in the cases of the amines whose pKa values were smaller than that of 2-aminothiazole (24-a) or the amines which had some substituents on the 4-position of 24, the corresponding cyclic compounds (25) could not be obtained. A series of these phenomena was discussed in connection with basicities of 2-aminothiazoles (24) and the steric hindrance of the substituents on the 4-position of 24.
Thiourea reacts rapidly with nitrous acid in aqueous solution to form an equilibrium concentration of a coloured S-nitroso-compound. The equilibrium constant has been measured, together with a preliminary value of the rate constant for the nitrosation. The kinetics of the much slower reaction to form nitrogen and thiocyanic acid have been investigated. The mechanism proposed is a rate-determining sulphur-to-nitrogen migration of the nitroso-group in the conjugate base of the S-nitroso-compound.
Abstract The rate of reaction of iso-thiocyanic acid with moderately concentrated nitric acid is reduced by the presence of nitrite scavengers and with a sufficiently active nitrite trap gives a limiting first order rate law. Oxidation is observed, even when catalysis by nitrous acid has been completely inhibited and there is also a parallel hydrolysis reaction.
The ionisation constants of several sulphoxides, phosphine oxides, selenoxides, triphenylarsine oxide, and pyridine 1-oxides have been determined in acetic acid by spectrophotometric titration with perchloric acid. The ionisation constants are compared with the hydrogen-bonding X–H stretching-frequency shifts of several proton donors of different acidity ranging from thiocyanic acid to phenylacetylene. The sequences of basicities by ionisation and by proton acceptance in hydrogen bonding correspond to each other only for strong acid X–H infrared shifts and other spectral symptoms of hydrogen bonding. Structural factors determining the ionisation constants of the oxo-bases are discussed as well as the differences between these and the amines in ionisation and in hydrogen bonding behaviour, respectively.
The action of 340 kV electrons or γ-60Co on gaseous mixtures of molecular nitrogen with various hydrocarbons give rise to radiation fixation of nitrogen. In all cases hydrocyanic acid is the main low molecular weight product of fixation. The radiation-chemical yield G(HCN) depends on the nature of the hydrocarbon and the ratio of components. the maximum G(HCN) values are obtained when the nitrogen/hydrocarbon ratio is 10:90. Most of the present experiments were carried out under an absolute pressure of 2 atm (200 kN m−2). The addition of inert gases to the mixtures increases G(HCN), which is 1⋅ for a mixture of 5 per cent CH4, 5 per cent N2 and 90 per cent Ar. ::: ::: Replacing nitrogen by air in the mixtures containing methane leads to a practically complete inhibition of HCN production due to interaction of methyl radicals and oxygen manifests the opposite effect in the case of mixtures of nitrogen with unsaturated hydrocarbons. Foe ethylene the maximum G(HCN) increases from 0⋅27 for ethylene-nitrogen mixtures to 0⋅48 for mixtures of ethylene and air. G(HCN) increases from 0c⋅23 to 1c⋅16 when passing from acetylene-nitrogen mixtures to acetylene-air mixtures; nitrogen-containing cuprene is not formed in the presence of oxygen. ::: ::: To elucidate a possible role of reactions of the methylene radical and atomic nitrogen, HCN synthesis in ketene-nitrogen mixtures has been studied. A maximum of G(HCN) = 1⋅6 is reached with 10 per cent of ketene. The addition of oxygen to the mixtures just slightly reduces G(HCN). ::: ::: The addition of small concentrations of N2O to the mixtures of ethylene and nitrogen has the usual inhibition action. But when using N2O as a nitrogen-containing component in the mixtures with ethylene, the maximum G(HCN) is three times larger that from C2H4−N2 mixtures. It is 1⋅6 times smaller when replacing nitrogen by nitrous oxide in the mixtures with methane. ::: ::: Ammonia is also formed in hydrocarbon-nitrogen mixtures; G(NH3) is comparable to G(HCN) for N2−CH4 mixtures. Acetonitrile (G=0⋅6) and acrylonitrile (G≈0⋅03) have been identified in CH4N2 mixtures irradiate under high pressures (50–75 atm = 5−7⋅5 MN m-2). ::: ::: Nitrogen-containing cuprene producedin C2H2–N2 mixtures with high yield (G ≈ 5) is more thermostable than usual cuprene and probably contains nitrogen in the form of various functional groups.
A major constraint to the use of some of the livestock feeds is the presence of toxic and plant secondary metabolite (PSM’s) constituents. These constituents have different but adverse effects on animal performance including loss of appetite and reductions of dry matter intake and nutrients digestibility. They are produced in plants for protective purposes for the plants itself and to adapt to environmental stresses. Some of them are deleterious and some are beneficial, some of which may be nutritionally valuable but many have no nutritional value or nutritionally detrimental effects. It is estimated that almost 80,000 PSM compounds are found in plants and occur naturally. Toxicity of most poisonous plants is associated with stage of growth, temperature, site, rainfall precipitation, light, soils, weather conditions and kind of animal. Toxicity is rather affected by numerous factors such as rate of ingestion, types and rates of microbial transformations in the rumen, rates of gastro-intestinal absorption, rates and pathways of biotransformation in gut tissues, liver and kidney and effect of enzyme induction or inhibition. Plant secondary metabolites can be divided into five major groups: the phenolic compounds, Glycosides, Alkaloids, Nitrates and Others like Oxalate and Lectins (Haemagglutinins). Tannins are a group of poly phenolic compounds that are produced naturally in some plants. They are distinguished from other polyphenolic compounds by their ability to precipitate proteins. They form complexes also with carbohydrates in the feeds, and with digestive enzymes. Tannins could be beneficial to ruminants. They may be involved in bloat prevention. Monogastric animals are highly susceptible to tannins than ruminant animals. Saponins can also exhibit a range of biological properties, both beneficial and deleterious. Hydrocyanic acid poisoning of sorghum is the most known problem of cyanogens. Drying considerably reduces the HCN level and sun drying has been shown to be more effective than oven drying. Many of the alkaloids are toxic to humans and animals. Nitrate itself is relatively nontoxic, but its metabolites, i.e. nitrite, nitric oxide, etc. are poisonous. Oxalates are poisonous when animals consume large quantities of oxalate containing plants without adaptation. If oxalates combine with calcium, they become insoluble. Lectins are glycoproteins that have the ability to bind to carbohydrate-containing molecules which cause the agglutination of red blood cells as well as reduced growth, diarrhea, and interference with nutrient absorption. Several methods were used to overcome the adverse effects of tannins such as, alkali treatments including ferrous sulphate and calcium hydroxide, Polyethylene glycol (PEG). Physical methods like soaking and drying and heat treatment before feeding of forage may reduce the toxic level of tannin. Potential methods for reducing the effects of tannin include drying, chemical agents like urea, wilting and wetting with chemical agents, as well as gelatin high in proline content and ensiling.
Abstract The structures, energies, vibrational frequencies and the polymerization pathways of isocyanic acid, HNCO, into various chain polymers consisting of up to 15 HNCO molecules have been investigated by the semi-empirical PM3/VSTO-3G(d) method and by ab initio HF and MP2 calculations employing the 6-31G(d,p) basis set. In accord with earlier literature studies, it was found that the most stable structure of isocyanic acid is not linear and the polymerization of HNCO to oxo (keto) cyanuric acid is thermodynamically the most favorable.
Ethyl carbamate (EC, urethane, C2H5OCONH2) is a known genotoxic carcinogen of widespread occurrence in fermented food and beverages with the highest concentrations being found in stone-fruit spirits. Time-consuming procedures requiring extraction and gas chromatographic–mass spectrometric determination are regarded as reference procedures for the analysis of EC in alcoholic beverages. In this study, the rapid method of Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy in combination with partial least-squares (PLS) regression using selected wavelength bands is applied for the first time to the screening analysis of EC in stone fruit spirits (analysis time only 2 min). Apart from the actual content of EC in the sample, additional information was available from the FTIR spectra. This included data concerning the EC precursor hydrocyanic acid (HCN) and the maximum EC concentration which could be formed during storage. The PLS procedure was validated using an independent set of samples (Q2 = 0.71–0.76, SEP = 0.42–0.67). The method was found to lack the accuracy required for a quantitative determination; it could only be used semi-quantitatively in the context of a screening analysis. If a rejection level of 0.8 mg L−1 is applied as cut-off, overall correct classification rates of 85–91% for the calibration set and 77–85% for the validation set were achieved. False negative results can be avoided by lowering the cut-off to 0.6 mg L−1. Through use of FTIR screening, 60–70% of all samples can be classified as negative and removed, leaving only conspicuous analysis results exceeding cut-off to be confirmed by complex and labour-intensive reference analyses.
Moths are often thought of as the ugly cousins of butterflies, yet their colours can be just as remarkable and, with over 20,000 species in Australia, their biology and lifestyles are far more diverse. ::: ::: With striking colour photographs of live moths in their natural habitat, this guide illustrates all the major moth families in Australia, including some rarely seen species. It provides many curious facts about the unusual aspects of moth biology, including details on day-flying species, camouflage, moths that mimic wasps, larvae with stinging hairs, and larvae that have gills. This easy-to-read book includes sections on the iconic Witjuti grubs, Bogong moths, the giant-tailed Hercules moths of northern Queensland (one of the largest moths in the world, with a wingspan of over 25 cm), moths that release hydrocyanic acid in their defence, and moths that produce ultrasonic calls that bats learn to associate with a bad taste. ::: ::: A Guide to Australian Moths highlights the environmental role of moths, their relationships with other animals and plants, and their importance to humans. It provides a unique introduction to the extraordinary diversity of moths found in Australia.
Carbamoylated proteins have been located by using a site-specific polyclonal anti-homocitrulline antibody and a fluorescent secondary antibody in leukocytes from patients with end-stage renal disease who were undergoing maintenance continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis. A covalent reaction with urea-derived cyanate and the e-amino group of lysine forms homocitrulline residues in carbamoylated proteins. Isocyanic acid, the reactive form of cyanate, is spontaneously formed from urea in aqueous solution at physiologic pH and temperature
Cassava (Manihot palmata) and soybean were processed into flours and used to substitute wheat flour as a composite flour. The wheat flour (WF) was substituted by cassava flour (CF) at levels of 0, 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, and 70%; while the resulting composite flours at levels above 40% were replaced with 10% soy flour (SBF) to increase their protein levels for biscuit production. This study evaluated the physicochemical and sensory qualities of biscuits baked from the various formulations of the flours. The proximate composition, hydrocyanic acid (HCN), spread ratio, biscuit weight and sensory properties of the biscuits were measured. Trained panellist evaluated the differences in organoleptic properties using a consumer sensory panel. Colour, crispiness, taste and flavour of biscuit reduced with increase in cassava flour but the diameter, spread ratio and shape of the biscuit improved. Increase in the levels of cassava flour resulted in decrease in the protein content progressively from 13.04% in 100%WF to 8.4% in biscuit with 40% cassava flour. However, addition of 10% soybean flour to composite flour above 40% CF resulted in progressive rise in the protein content of the biscuit from 8.41% in the 40% cassava flour biscuits to 11.39% in biscuits with 50%CF with subsequent reduction as the cassava flour increased to 70% level. The hydrogen cyanide content of the biscuits was increased with the increase in level of cassava flour in the formulations with maximum level of 0.20 mg/kg and in biscuit with 70% cassava flour. There was no significant difference in the overall acceptability between the biscuit from the control (100% wheat flour) and the composite flours up to 7040% cassava substitution level. Further addition of soy flour above 40%CF levels also improved the overall acceptability and there was no significant difference in the overall acceptabilitysensory qualities and other biscuit without soy flour enrichment up to 60% cassava flour. This indicates the feasibility of producing nutritious biscuits with desirable organoleptic qualities from cassava/wheat/soy composite flour up to 7060% cassava substitution level. ::: ::: ::: ::: Key words: Cassava, soybean, composite flours, biscuits, physicochemical and organoleptic qualities.
Ten forage grasses ( Cynodon spp.), including recent introductions, and Stargrass ( C. nlemfuensis var. nlemfuensis ) were grown in the central mountains of Puerto Rico to measure the effect of two fertilizer rates and three harvest intervals on the forage yield, crude protein yield and hydrocyanic acid content (HCN) for a 2-year period. Fertilizer treatments applied after each harvest consisted of 2.24 and 4.48 metric tons/ha/year of a 15-5-10 fertilizer. Significant differences occurred between fertilizer rates as to dry forage and crude protein yields. Number of harvests per year were 6, 8 and 12 for 30-, 45- and 60-day intervals, respectively. Significant differences occurred among cultivars and harvest intervals. Cynodon dactylon (PRPI 11504), C. plectostachyus (PRPI 11487) and C. nlemfuensis var. nlemfuensis (PRPI 2341) occupied most of the top yield positions at the three harvest intervals. HCN within the cultivars ranged from 0 to 333 p/m.
Under digestive conditions cyanogenesis is likely to be inhibited by acids and alkalies, digestive juices, cellulose, glucose, and molasses, salt and many other feeding-stuff constituents and adjuncts. Owing to the time the food remains in the digestive tract before coming to the true stomach or the acid secreting portion of the stomach, normal inhibition is caused by the alkaline character of the salivary juices. This is likely to be the chief cause of the innocuous character of linseed cake. In the case of sheep fed with linseed cake shortly before being killed small amounts of hydrocyanic acid were to be found, chiefly in the rumen. Cyanogenetic feeding-stuffs are most likely to be poisonous when fed with acid containing or acid producing food-stuffs, or where the hydrocyanic acid is pre-formed, as in the case of an improperly made linseed gruel. The small quantities of hydrocyanic acid normally produced from cyanogenetic feeding-stuffs may possibly have a strongly beneficial action.
Incubation at physiological conditions of erythrocytes from a person bearing the sickle-cell trait with 1-methyl-1-nitrosourea, 1,3-bis-(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea, or 1-(2-chloroethyl)-3-cyclohexyl-1-nitrosourea prevented sickling of the cells upon subsequent treatment of the cells with sodium metabisulfite. In these experiments these compounds were more effective than potassium cyanate as inhibitors of sickling. It is assumed that the inhibition results from the carbamoylation of the hemoglobin S by the isocyanic acid or the isocyanates derived from the nitrosoureas.
The apricot, Prunus armeniaca L., is a member of the Rosaceae, subfamily Prunoideae. These orange coloured fruits are one of the first signs of summer. Apricot fruit quality is associated with attributes such as appearance, texture, taste and colour. The fruit has distinctively delicious taste, appealing smell, and varying colours from yellow to orange with a reddish random overlay. In the middle of the apricot is a large pit. Apricot seeds are generally exported to European countries and used especially in medicine, cosmetic and oil production (Gezer, 2002) . Durmaz and Alpaslan (2007) mentioned that apricot seeds are added to bakery products (as whole seeds or ground) in retail bakeries and also consumed as appetizers. Apricot seeds, particularly rich in lipid and protein, are potentially useful in human nutrition (Femenia et al., 1995; Alpaslan et al., 2006) along with significant amounts of oil fiber (Abd el-aal et al., 1986; Hacisefero et al., 2007) high antioxidant and antimicrobial activities (Yigit et al., 2009) . Sweet apricot seeds contain more oil than bitter and such oleic acid and linoleic acid correspond to approximately 92 g*100 g -1 of the total fatty acids present in apricot seed. Apricot seeds contain the cyanogenic glycoside (CGs) amygdalin depending on the variety and environmental effects. Apricot kernels contain approximately 20-80 µmol*g -1 of amygdalin, and it is very high (5.5 g*100 g -1 ) in bitter apricot cultivars while it is not detected in the sweet ones (Femenia et al., 1995) . CGs are natural plant toxicants (Bolarinwa et al., 2015) . The genetic control of cyanogenesis has no unique mechanism. The plants show variation in the amount of the produced hydrocyanic acid (HCN). The generation of hydrocyanic acid HCN from CGs is a two step process (Vetter, 2000) . Kernels of the wild apricot contain a high concentration of HCN (200 mg*100 g -1 ), whereas domestic bitter apricot cultivars contain relatively low levels of HCN (11.7 mg*100 g -1 ) (Stoewsand et al., 1975) . Amygdalin can be hydrolyzed to form glucose, benzaldehyde and hydrocyanic acid. Enzymatic release of cyanide occurs in the presence of β-glucoronidase, an enzyme found in the human intestine (Strugala et al., 1995) . On average, apricot seeds contain approximately 0.5 mg of cyanide (Femenia et al., 1995) . The use of apricot seeds for human nutrition is limited because their content of the toxic, CGs (amygdalin) accompanied by minor amounts of prunasin. Amygdalin, can be used for an effective prevention and treatment of human cancer (Gomez et al., 1998) . However, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved amygdalin as a cancer treatment owing to insufficient clinical evidence of its efficacy and potential toxicity (Chang et al., 2006; Kwon et al., 2010) . The seed oil has been used to treat tumors, ulcers (Rieger, 2006) well as in cosmetics and as a pharmaceutical agent (laxative and expectorant). In very small amounts, the toxic hydrogen cyanide present in bitter apricot kernels has been prescribed for asthma, cough and constipation. Apricot seeds paste can heal vaginal infections (Chevallier, 1996) . Anterior pituitary hormones play a key role in reproductive physiology (Bugbee et al., 1931) . Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) binds to gonadotropes to stimulate synthesis and secretion of two glycoprotein hormones: follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH) by the anterior pituitary (Gromoll et al., 2003; Müller et al., 2004a; 2004b; Scammell et al., 2008) . Female fertility depends on the precise execution of ovarian development, regulated allocation and maturation of oocytes, and the proliferation and differentiation of the surrounding somatic cells that occur during folliculogenesis (Elvin et al., 1998) . FSH and LH are known collectively as gonadotrophins and control reproductive functions and sexual characteristics. Prolactin (PRL) stimulates the breasts to produce milk. This hormone is secreted in large amounts during pregnancy and breast feeding, but is present at all times in both men and women (Rogers et al., 2011) . The aim of study was to examine whether apricot seeds are able to cause changes in blood plasma levels of anterior pituitary hormones of rabbits.
Germinating seeds and growing plants influence the activities of soil microorganisms in the adjoining volumes of soil known as the spermosphere and the rhizosphere, respectively (24). Conversely, microorganisms in these settings condition the seeds and plants in a number of ways. Some of the microorganisms (e.g., the so-called plant-growth-promoting rhizobacteria) may enhance plant health and productivity by synthesizing phytohormones, increasing the local availability of nutrients, facilitating the uptake of nutrients by the plants, decreasing heavy metal toxicity in the plants, antagonizing plant pathogens, and inducing systemic resistance in the plants to pathogens (5, 8, 9). Detrimental effects are produced by other organisms, such as the so-called deleterious rhizosphere microorganisms, and these effects include release of toxic products of microbial metabolism, alteration of nutrient cycling, impairment of uptake of nutrients, competition for nutrients, and retardation of root growth (28). Among the factors involved in plant-microbe interactions, as well as in microbemicrobe interactions, in the rhizosphere, siderophores and hydrocyanic acid (HCN) have received special attention. Siderophores are high-affinity Fe 3ϩ chelators that are synthesized and released extracellularly under iron limitation conditions, where they make otherwise inaccessible supplies of insoluble iron available to organisms with specific membrane-bound siderophore receptors (14, 17) . Such receptors are present in the microorganisms that produce the corresponding siderophores but can also be found in plants. The iron nutrition of these plants is thus enhanced. In addition, since plant-growth-promoting rhizobacteria produce siderophores with higher Fe 3ϩ affinity than the siderophores produced by deleterious rhizosphere microorganisms, the latter microorganisms are outcompeted in their quest for iron. HCN is released as product of secondary metabolism by several microorganisms and affects sensitive organisms by inhibiting the synthesis of ATP mediated by cytochrome oxidase (22). Therefore, depending on the target organisms, HCN-producing microorganisms are regarded as harmful when they impair plant health and beneficial when they suppress unwanted components of the microbial community (23, 29). The significance of siderophore and HCN generation in rhizosphere management and engineering has been studied and reviewed extensively (11, 13, 16, 21, 26, 36) , but there is relatively little information on comparative population dynamics and interactions of producing and nonproducing microorganisms during the early stages of root colonization. These issues were specifically addressed in the present work.
Cassava root meal which has been used as good alternative energy source in poultry and pig diets ::: is increasingly becoming an important energy source for feeding the world’s human population. There are ::: however, several by-products of cassava harvest ranging from the leaves, peels and pulp which have ::: potential as feed ingredients in poultry rations. Cassava peels and pulps are moderate to high in energy and ::: have been included in diets as replacements for conventional energy sources. Cassava leaves, moderate ::: to good protein contents, have been used as protein supplements. Dietary recommendations of cassava ::: by-products for poultry have varied considerably. The major factors limiting the efficient utilization of these byproducts ::: in poultry diets include the high fibre and low energy contents and likely presence of antinutritional ::: factors, mainly hydrocyanic acid (HCN) in the bitter variety of cassava. Several technologies have been used ::: to improve the utilization of cassava by-products by poultry. The following paper reviewed the composition ::: of some cassava by-products (leaves, peels and pulp), their recommendations for inclusion in poultry diets ::: and processing methods to maximize their utilization by poultry. It was concluded that efficient use of cassava ::: by-products will reduce feed cost of poultry production and provide additional source of income to cassava ::: farmers and processors.
SUMMARY Data concerning the hydrocyanic acid content. of 14 grasses and physical methods for its elimi­nation are presented, together with some botanical details of these and other Amazonian plants. BIBLIOGRAFIA CITADA APLIN, T.E .H . 1975 - Cyanogenetic plants of westem AuS­tralia. Bull Western Australiam De­partment of Agriculture, (3967) : 1-14. 8RtJ.LJN, G. H. DI! 1971 - Etude de caractere cyanogenetique du manioc (Manihot esculenta Grantz). Mededelingen Landbouwhogeschool. Wa­geninggen, p. 71-73. 8 UTLER, G.W.; R AY, P .F . & T APPER, B.A. 1973 - Physiological and genetics aspects of cyanogenesis in cassava. and other plants. London: International Develop. ment Research Centre. Monograf; IRDC-010e, p. 65-71. Algumas plantas ... CAR.DENA, J.; REYES, C.E . & Dou .. , J .D. 1972 - Tropical Wceds. Malezas Tropicales. Vol. 1. Bogota, p. 25 . EYJOLFSSON, R . 1970 - Recent advances in tbe chemistry o! cyanogenic glycooides. Fortsch. Chem. Org. Nat., 28 : 74-108 JoNES, D.A. 1972 - Cyanogenic glycosides and their function, p. 103-104. In: Harbone B. ed. Phytoche­nucal Ecology, London, Academic Press. LE COINTE, p. 1947 - Amazonia Brasileira Ill. Arvores e plantas uteis.
The complexes formed by isothiocyanic acid HNCS and its deuterated analogue DNCS with carbon monoxide have been observed and characterized in argon and nitrogen matrixes. The product bands and their shifts relative to the corresponding monomer absorptions prove that the complexes are hydrogen bonded with the carbon-attached structure OC···HNCS. The structure, energetics, and vibrational properties of the complexes have been calculated by ab initio at the MP2 level. Two stable minima were localized on the potential energy surface. Both involved an almost linear hydrogen bond from the NH group of the isothiocyanic acid molecule to either the carbon or the oxygen atom of the CO molecule. The OC···HNCS and CO···HNCS complexes were found to be weakly bound by −2.84 and −1.33 kcal/mol, respectively.
[Objective]To study the variation tendency of cyanide content in ginkgo leaves in urban Baoding,so as to guide scientific use among residents.[Methods]The generated total hydrocyanic acid instead of cyanide glycoside content in ginkgo leave was detected by barbituric acid-iso-nicotinic acid colorimetry method.[Results]The cyanide content of ginkgo leaf was 93.2~ 106.6 mg/kg in urban Baoding. The minimum of cyanide content was in May and increased monthly,the maximum appeared during September-November. There was no difference of cyanide content between leaves of old trees and young trees.[Conclusion]Fresh ginkgo leaf is not suitable for immediate consumption to avoid poisoning.
S α Substituted α cyanomethyl alcohol is prepared from 3 phenoxybenzaldehyde and hydrocyanic acid by cyclo(D Phe D His),the yield is 86% and the ee% is 90.The effects of the ratio of catalyst to 3 phenoxybenzaldehyde and reaction time have been discussed in detail.The S α cyano benzyl alcohol has been applied to synthesis (S,S) fenvalerate,(1R,3R,αS) decamethrin,(S,S) fenpropathrin and (1R cis,S) cyphenothrin,their total yields are 80%,75%,80%,75% respectively and their ee% are 90,75,70,70 respectively
Cyanates of alkali and alkaline-earth metals are prepared by reacting a salt such as the hydroxide, carbamate or carbonate of the metal in aqueous solution or slurry with cracked urea gas which is a gaseous mixture of ammonia and (iso)cyanic acid.
The typical transformation which hydrocyaiiic acid ulidergoes wheni submnitted, under appropriate circuimstances, to the action of water, is capable of assuming two di-fferent forms whien accomplished in its homologues. If the hydrocyanic molecule be found to fix the elemenits of two molecules of water, yielding ultimately formic acid anid ammonlia, it is obvious that the atom group which in the homologues of hydrocyanic acid we assuLme in the place of hydrogen may be eliminated wheni these homologues are decomposed by water in conjunction either with formic acid or with ammonia. To take an example:-When acting with water upon the simplest homologne of hydrocyaanic acid (upon cyanide of methyl), we miay expect to see the methyl-group separating either in the form of methyl-formic, i. e. acetic acid, or in the form of methyl-ammonia, i. e. of methylamine. The difference of the two reactions and their relation to the metamorphosis of hydrocyaniic acid itself are exhibited by the following equations:
The hydrolysis of isocyanic acid (HNCO) was investigated on various oxidic catalysts, including TiO2, V2O5/TiO2, and V2O5−WO3/TiO2. The kinetics were studied using powdered samples in a microreactor. The conversions of HNCO are high even at the high space velocities (106 h-1) and low temperatures (150 °C) used in the tests. The highest rate for the hydrolysis of HNCO was found on pure TiO2 powder, while the addition of vanadia and tungsta decreased the activity slightly. To compare the rate of HNCO hydrolysis with the rate of the SCR reaction, uncorrected first-order rate constants were calculated for both reactions using the integral equation for a plug flow reactor. For a catalyst sample containing both WO3 and V2O5, the rate constant for hydrolysis of HNCO at low temperatures is about 2 orders of magnitude higher than the respective rate constant for the SCR reaction, whereas at high temperatures, the rate constants are of comparable magnitude. The apparent activation energy of the hydrolysis reaction ...
Gas chromatography (GC), mass spectrometry (MS), GC/MS technique and standardized methods have been used to investigate harmful chemicals produced during laser treatment of tissue and to find relations between the emitted molecules and interaction processes. It has been found that the emission of carbon monoxide is strongly connected with carbonization. Hydrocyanic acid is well suited to get information on processes, characterizing laser tissue interaction, e.g., plasma behavior. From results obtained by variation of the reaction gas atmosphere (helium, nitrogen oxygen, air) it becomes clear that two processes must be taken into account, oxidation (combustion) and the preferred formation of compounds characterized by the cyano group. It is possible to reduce the amount of emitted hydrocyanic acid drastically working in an oxygen atmosphere. The typical substances arising during laser tissue interaction were compared with the emission obtained by laser treatment of fiber-reinforced plastics, pointing out that the high temperature region (plasma torch) is an important source of the emitted substances.
Cyanic acid esters from phenols: phenyl cyanate ::: ::: ::: ::: product: phenyl cyanate ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: product: 2-CH3C6H4OCN ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: product: 4-CH3C6H4OCN ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: product: 4-CH3OC6H4OCN ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: product: 2-ClC6H4OCN ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: product: 4-ClC6H4OCN ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: product: 2-CH3OCOC6H4OCN ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: product: 2-Naphthyl-OCN ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: product: 4-NCOC6H4OCN ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: product: CCl3CH2OCN ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: product: CF3CH2OCN ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: Keywords: ::: ::: polyphosphate ester as a drying agent; ::: bromine; ::: cyanogen bromide, poison, potential explosive; ::: sodium cyanide, poison
Abstract: Cassava root meal which has been used as good alternative energy source in poultry and pig diets is increasingly becoming an important energy source for feeding the world's human population. There are however, several by-products of cassava harvest ranging from the leaves, peels and pulp which have potential as feed ingredients in poultry rations. Cassava peels and pulps are moderate to high in energy and have been included in diets as replacements for conventional energy sources. Cassava leaves, moderate to good protein contents, have been used as protein supplements. Dietary recommendations of cassava by-products for poultry have varied considerably. The major factors limiting the efficient utilization of these byproducts in poultry diets include the high fibre and low energy contents and likely presence of antinutritional factors, mainly hydrocyanic acid (HCN) in the bitter variety of cassava. Several technologies have been used to improve the utilization of cassava by-products by poultry. The following paper reviewed the composition of some cassava by-products (leaves, peels and pulp), their recommendations for inclusion in poultry diets and processing methods to maximize their utilization by poultry. It was concluded that efficient use of cassava by-products will reduce feed cost of poultry production and provide additional source of income to cassava farmers and processors.
Cassava (Manihot esculenta Crantz) is to African villager farmers as rice is to the Asian farmer, or potato and wheat are to European farmers (Montagnac et al. 2009 ). It has so many names aside from cassava, such as manioc, mandoica, and it is the most important food in terms of carbohydrates (Ojo and Akande 2013) . Cassava is eaten daily in various forms such as gari, fufu, and tapioca (Okechukwu and Okoye 2010) . Gari is a lactic acid-fermented product of cassava root that can be processed with palm oil rich in carotenoid ("yellow gar") or without palm oil. In Nigeria, gari is widely acceptable and consumed by both the poor, the middle men or average Nigerian, and also the rich because it serves as a major source of carbohydrate. Gari can be taken in various forms; some people use it to make eba or soak inside water along with groundnut, mashed beans, or bean cake (akara). The major problem of consuming gari is the toxicity which may arise from poor processing of cassava which is rich in cyanogenic glucosides. Consumption of cyanide and its accumulation in human body normally lead to neurological disorders and goiter (Ojo and Akande 2013) . Cyanide has been found to be greatly reduced during the processing of cassava to gari. Unit operation such as peeling, washing, grating, fermentation, dewatering, and roasting have been found to effectively reduce the residual cyanide contents of the product (Ojo and Akande 2013) . Chijioke et al. (2010) reported that the traditional method of gari production which requires the cassava slurry to be fermented for 72 h during which the cyanides (linamarin and lotaustralin) are hydrolyzed by linamarase enzyme to yield hydrocyanic acid which has low boiling point and easily escape during roasting render the gari safe for consumption. Cutting corners by so many processors for the sake of profit has led to production of gari with excess cyanide content (Ojo and Akande 2013) . Cocoyam (Colocasia esculenta) belongs to Araceae family and constitutes one of the six most important roots and tuber crops worldwide (Ndabikunze et al. 2011) . Nigeria, Ghana, Burundi, Cote d'Ivoire and Madagascar, China, Japan, Philippines, and Thailand account for the production of 8.3 million tons of cocoyam per year (FAO 1998) . Cocoyam is mainly cultivated by small-scale farmers in most African countries (Ndabikunze et al. 2011) . Like other members of Araceae family, it grows from the fleshy tuber, which is used majorly for food, and it supplies digestible starch, substantial amount of protein, vitamin C, riboflavin, thiamine, niacin, and significant amount of dietary fiber that is richer than cassava tuber (Niba 2003) . The production of cocoyam is low when compared with other roots and tuber in Nigeria (Aderolu et al. 2009 ). In spite of its importance as a staple food in many countries, cocoyam has received very poor research attention to enhance its utility and production (Watanabe 2002) . Despite the nutritional composition of digestible starch of 98.8% and its richness in sulfur amino acid, the potential for the development of value-added cocoyam products has not been exploited (Palapala et al. 2005; Ndabikunze et al. 2011) . Promotion and supporting the use of cocoyam can make a major contribution to the food security of the countries where cocoyam is being cultivated. Hence, this study aimed at producing "gari" using cassava and cocoyam tubers to increase the utilization of cocoyam and to analyze the physicochemical properties of "gari."
Bamboos are used extensively for a variety of purposes, and many new species have been introduced to the northwestern Himalaya. However, their potential as a fodder species has not been investigated. Six bamboo species, namely Dendrocalamus hamiltonii Gamble, Dendrocalamus asper (Schult. and Schult.f.) Backer ex K. Heyne, Melocanna baccifera (Roxb.) Kurz, Phyllostachys aurea Riviere and C. Riviere, Phyllostachys bambusoides Sieb and Zucc. and Phyllostachys pubescens (Pradelle) Mazel ex J. Houz. were evaluated for their nutritional value, relative palatability and best lopping time. Dry matter (DM), ether extract (EE), and crude fibre varied from (37.0–67.7)%, (4.7–7.6), and (22.1–37.9)%, respectively. Values of crude protein ranged from (12.2–17.1)%, total ash (TA) from (11.8–21.5)%, acid insoluble ash (AIA) from (0.3–0.5)%, nitrogen free extract from (31.1–40.8)%, carbohydrates from (57.0–69.0)%, organic matter (OM) from (78.5–88.2)%, calcium from (1.7–2.3)%, phosphorus from (0.4–0.8)%, potassium from, (0.9–1.6)%, magnesium from (0.5–0.9)%, sodium from (603.7–1072.7) × 10−6 and vitamin A from (21.1–30.5) × 10−2 mg/g, respectively. D. hamiltonii had maximum values for DM, EE, TA and AIA. OM and vitamin A were highest in M. baccifera. CF and carbohydrates were maximized in P. aurea and CP in P. pubescens. All the values obtained for different bamboo species were less than maximum tolerable concentration of common feed resources of the region thereby indicating their suitability for nutrition and palatability. The contents of anti-nutritional factors, namely hydrocyanic acid and tannin ranged from (33.8–61.7) × 10−2 mg/g and (0.7–1.9)%, respectively. P. pubescens was the best species from a palatability point of view and has maximum crude protein content (17.2%), Ca (2.3%) and lowest tannin content (0.7%). The relative palatability of introduced bamboo species followed trend: P. pubescens (97.6%) > D. hamiltonii (92.5%) > P. bambusoides (81.2%) > D. asper (76.9%) > M. baccifera (75.9%) > P. aurea (73.4%). The optimum months for lopping these species for green leaves are November and December, as the nutritional value declines sharply thereafter.
Conditions and catalyst have been found that cause the addition of thiocyanic acid (HSCN) to non-activated alk-1-ynes in dichloromethane, thus producing the corresponding 2-thiocyanatoalk-1-enes in nearly quantitative yield.
The extent to which isocyanic acid (HNCO) is formed during the reaction of NO/CO/H2 mixtures over silica-supported Pt, Rh, and Pd has been investigated together with the subsequent hydrolysis of HNCO on oxide systems placed downstream. The yield of HNCO from NO is highest for Pt/SiO2 exceeding 35% at 315°C with a standard 2800/3400/1200 ppm NO/CO/H2 mixture. Hydrogen consumption is complete at 220°C with ammonia and water as major products, but above 260°C HNCO becomes the favoured product with some arising from NH3. Hydrolysis of HNCO to NH3 and CO2 takes over once all NO has been consumed. The extent of hydrolysis is increased somewhat if additional SiO2 is placed downstream. Other oxide systems–-CeO2/SiO2, BaO/SiO2, CeO2/Al2O3, and CeO2-ZrO2–-give complete hydrolysis to the extent of the available water at 315°C, and no HNCO remains if additional water is included in the feed. Hydrogen consumption during the NO+CO+H2 reaction commences at the lowest temperature on the Pd/SiO2, and for 100°C from the onset temperature of 130°C the reaction can be largely described as the sum of the NO+H2 and NO+CO ones. Formation of HNCO commences at 235°C, with a maximum yield of 20% at 300°C. It appears to arise solely through utilisation of NH3 made as a side-product to the NO+H2 reaction. Rh/SiO2 is much less active than Pt/SiO2 and Pd/SiO2 for the NO+H2 reaction, but more active for the NO+CO and NO+CO+H2 ones. The latter exhibits a small sharp peak in HNCO formation, but the maximum yield is only 14% and this coincides with total consumption of NO. Considerable ammonia is formed at higher temperatures, even though none is produced during the NO+H2 reaction. HNCO is believed to arise on each metal through the combination of surface hydrogen atoms with metal-bound NCO groups which exist in small numbers when N atoms are located adjacent to adsorbed CO molecules. The differences in behaviour between the metals can be rationalised in terms of the relative strengths of adsorption of CO and NO, and the temperature difference between total consumption of H2 and NO. If the difference is large, then HNCO can be produced from ammonia as well as hydrogen. A general conclusion is that, although some HNCO might be generated on platinum group metal particles within the pores of three-way vehicle catalysts during warm-up, the rapidity of hydrolysis on oxide washcoats with water in large excess is so great that no HNCO would ever emerge. Only the hydrolysis products, NH3 and CO2, will be seen.
FIELD: chemistry. SUBSTANCE: invention relates to methods for free cyanide regenerating from waters containing thiocyanates, cyanides and heavy metals. Method of free cyanide regenerating from waters containing thiocyanates and heavy metals includes selective oxidation in acid media, trapping prussic acid from the waste gases to an alkaline absorber, alkalizing the waters after their oxidative treatment. At that, part of the waters after oxidative treatment or hydrocyanic acid purging is directed to mixing with the source waters in such a proportion that the mixture pH is optimal for precipitation and removal of heavy metals. For waters oxidizing treatment reagents or physicochemical processes are used, which are capable of selectively oxidizing thiocyanates to hydrocyanic acid with pH of less than 6.0, preferably less than 2.5, at that the hydrocyanic acid is oxidized to an insignificant degree. In addition to thiocyanates, sent to treatment waters may contain cyanides. EFFECT: technical result consists in reducing the consumption of reagents (acid) while maintaining high rates of cyanide removal from water. 3 cl, 1 dwg, 3 tbl, 2 ex
Abstract The results of the research, development and operation of the industrial plant for catalytic purification of exhaust gases from cyanic acid and acrylonitrile at unsteady state conditions are presented in the report.
Provided is a method for producing methionine, the method including a step for bringing 2-amino-4-(methylthio)butanenitrile and water into contact with each other in the presence of an oxide catalyst containing cerium. 2-Amino-4-(methylthio)butanenitrile produced by bringing 2-hydroxy-4-(methylthio)butanenitrile and ammonia water into contact with each other, or 2-amino-4-(methylthio)butanenitrile produced by bringing 3-(methylthio)propionaldehyde, hydrocyanic acid, and ammonia water into contact with each other, can be used as the 2-amino-4-(methylthio)butanenitrile.
The effects of thiocyanate anion (SCN-) on proton accumulation and ATP hydrolysis by hog gastric microsomal vesicles have been investigated. The addition of SCN- to vesicles in the presence of KC1 and valinomycin reduced ATP-dependent proton accumulation in a dose-dependent manner. Inhibition was most pronounced in the presence of internal SCN-, which was obtained by preincubation of vesicles with SCN- or by the addition of K+-valinomycin, which facilitates entry of SCN-. SCN- does not appear to act by inhibition of the vesicular H+ pump because 1) there were minimal effects of SCN- on the rate of ATP hydrolysis, and 2) the initial rate of pH gradient formation was greater with 20 mM SCN- than with 20 mM Cl-. In the presence of K+ and valinomycin, external SCN- inhibited ATP-dependent pH gradient formation by increasing the rate of proton efflux. Preformed pH gradients (acid interior) were rapidly dissipated by internal, but not external, SCN-. These results suggest that SCN- acts to increase the rate of passive proton loss from the vesicle interior and do not support a direct inhibition of ATP-dependent H+ translocation. The results are consistent with the formation of the permeant hydrothiocyanic acid within the vesicles, increasing the rate of proton loss. The data also lend support to the HSCN backflux hypothesis of Sanders et al. [Am. J. Physiol. 234 (Endocrinol. Metab. Gastrointest. Physiol. 3): E120-E128, 1978] for inhibition of gastric acid secretion by SCN-.
Titan’s nitrogen and hydrocarbon dominated atmosphere is the site of very complex organic chemistry leading to the production of numerous species including larger molecules from smaller molecular, ionic and radical precursors. Photochemical conversion of methane and other precursors produces smog in the middle to upper layers of the atmosphere, and an organic rain of methane, higher hydrocarbons, and nitrogencontaining aerosols falls onto Titan's surface, producing an Earth-like terrain of extended river channels that contain a “soup” of several important organic precursors. Here we describe plausible organic chemistry under Titan’s surface and near surface conditions and present synthetic schemes based on acetylene, hydrocyanic acid, and other small organic precursors resulting in the production of larger molecules. Among the products of these reactions are important biological precursors such as nitrogenous bases or amino acids. The details of several plausible prebiotic organic synthetic routes in Titan’s surface environment will be presented and the implications of such chemistries to the overall progress of prebiotic evolution on Titan will be discussed.
Cytoplasmic male-sterile sudangrass, A Rhodesian ( Sorghum arundinaceum ), was crossed with two sudangrasses (Sweet Sudan and Piper) and six forage sorghums (Sugar Drip, Brawley, Roma, Collier, Sumac and Meridian 55- 1). The eight F 1 hybrids and their male parents were compared for yield of green forage (GF), dry forage (DF), and crude protein (CP); dry matter (DM) and CP contents; plant height, leaf area, number of tillers, leaf/stem ratio and hydrocyanic acid potential (HCN-p). The first cutting was made 60 days after planting and the two subsequent cuttings at a 60-day interval. The second harvest had the greatest DF yields but a lower CP content when compared to the first harvest. The F 1 hybrids were significantly superior than male parents for all traits except HCN-p at 45 and 60 days, leaf/stem ratio and DM and CP contents at each of the three harvests. Combined data for the three cuttings show that the F 1 's of A Rhodesian x Sumac and A Rhodesian x Roma produced the greatest DF yields among hybrids. The DF yields of Sugar Drip were the highest among male parents. The average DF yield for F 1 hybrids was 19% more than for the male parents. The DF yields of about 19 t/ha of the best hybrids compared favorably with other high yielding forage sorghums. Heterosis was observed for the most important traits, F 1 hybrid A Rhodesian x Piper exhibiting the greatest value, 60 and 97% more DF than the midparent and high parent, respectively. The excellent DF yields, relatively low HCN-p values and high protein content of hybrids when A Rhodesian sudangrass was the female parent, make them potentially valuable genotypes for utilization in an intensive management program in the tropics. As in a previous study. A Rhodesian sudangrass proved to be a potentially useful male-sterile line in the development of superior F 1 forage sorghum hybrids in Puerto Rico.
The cyanogenic beta-glucosidase (linamarase) of cassava is responsible for the first step in the sequential break-down of two related cyanoglucosides. Hydrolysis of these cyanoglucosides occurs following tissue damage and leads to the production of hydrocyanic acid. This mechanism is widely regarded as a defense mechanism against predation. A linamarase cDNA clone (pCAS5) was isolated from a cotyledon cDNA library using a white clover beta-glucosidase heterologous probe. The nucleotide and derived amino acid sequence is reported and five putative N-asparagine glycosylation sites are identified. Concanavalin A affinity chromatography and endoglycosidase H digestion demonstrate that linamarase from cassava is glycosylated, having high-mannose-type N-asparagine-linked oligosaccharides. Consistent with this structure and the extracellular location of the active enzyme is the identification of an N-terminal signal peptide on the deduced amino acid sequence of pCAS5.
Garri flour was produced from mashed cassava (Manihot spp) roots, which had been subjected to fermentation for time periods of between 6 and 72 h. The hydrocyanic acid content of each batch was estimated by spectrophotometric alkaline picrate method. White and yellow garri flour samples procured from markets in Abia State, Nigeria were also analyzed for their HCN contents using the above-mentioned method. The HCN content decreased significantly with the length of fermentation period of the grated cassava mash. Levels of residual HCN were also significantly influenced by the source and type of garri flour (whether white or yellow). The white garri flour had higher HCN levels than the yellow.
The thermal decomposition of urea in air or inert atmosphere was investigated by means of simultaneous TG, DTA and MS analysis. In our measurements conditions, after melting, in the temperature range 120-220°C a fragmentation of urea into ions with m/z = 44 and m/z = 16 occurs simultaneously with ammonia and cyanic acid evolving. The presence of the intermediate [OCN][NH 4 ] was identified. In the same temperature range, compounds of biuret and triuret type are formed. These compounds decompose at temperatures higher than 260°C.
The technologies for producing iminodiacetic acid, e.g. chloroacetic acid-glycine method, chloroacetic acid ammoniation, ammonium triacetate, direct synthesis based on hydrocyanic acid, diethanolamine dehydrogenation and ethanolamine methods are introduced. At present, the output of hydrocyanic acid produced as a by-product in production of acylonitrile is reached 100000 t/a, a suggestion is offered on producing iminodiacetic acid by direct synthesis based on hydrocyanic acid for those enterprises having advantage in hydrocyanic acid resource. Thus, it can not only utilize hydrocyanic acid effectively, but also accelerate realizing green production in China’s glyphosate industry.
The invention relates to a three-component polyurethane elastomer composition. The weight ratio of three components is that a component A: a component C=100:6.25-47.1, and a component B: (the component A + the component C) =100:52-170. The component A is obtained by dewatering polyhydric alcohols at the temperature of 100-120 DEG C and 0.095MPa of vacuum degree until moisture content <=0.03%, the component B is obtained by reacting 40-50wt.% of the polyhydric alcohols and 50-60wt.% of diisocyanate at the temperature of 75-85 DEG C to obtain a prepolymer with 15-17 by mass of isocyanic acid radical, the component C is obtained by evenly mixing a catalytic agent and an alcohol chain extender after the alcohol chain extender is dewatered until the moisture content <=0.03%, and using quantity of catalytic agent is 1-6% of the component C. The viscosity of the three components is small, operation can be carried out at the temperature of 40-60DEG C, and the three-component polyurethane elastomer composition is simple in process, convenient to operate and wide in application.
Since there is in the young flax plant a characteristic glucoside, linamarin, which splits into hydrocyanic acid and glucose, it seemed worth while to determine the reaction of Fusarium lini, the pathogen of the flax-wilt disease, toward several cyanogen compounds. The well known action of potassium cyanide on animals suggested that it would be well to test its effects upon the fungus. As early as I875 it was shown (i) that hydrogen cyanide destroys the vitality of yeast, but little work seems to have been done in studying its relations to other fungi. Stevens (2) reported upon some work and called attention to the comparatively innocuous character of potassium cyanide in killing fungous spores. The splitting of several glucosides by enzymic action, including some cyanogenetic glucosides, has been described (3) for a few of the molds, especially the genus Aspergillus. The immediate objectives in the experimental work here reported were to test the toxic effects of potassium cyanide upon Fusarium lini and to determine any possible stimulation of growth caused by it. The cultures were made in petri dishes, the synthetic agar culture having been treated with varying strengths of potassium cyanide. These were then inoculated with Fusarium lini in the center of each dish. A volume-molecular solution of KCN was made and diluted to the following strengths in the culture medium: I/IOOO M; 5/IOOO M; I/IOO M; 2/IOO M; 3/IOO M; and so forth to I/IO M. The record of growth was kept by measuring in millimeters the total diameter of the colony resulting from the inoculation in the center. The results are given in table i, taking the average diameter of three cultures for each concentration, except in the cases indicated by stars, where only two are averaged. TABLE I. Figures Indicate Diameters in mm.
Cayratia trifolia Linn. Domin Syn. Vitis trifolia (Family: Vitaceae) is commonly known as Fox grape in English; Amlabel, Ramchana in Hindi and Amlavetash in Sanskrit. It is native to India, Asia and Australia. It is a perennial climber having trifoliated leaves with 2-3 cm long petioles and ovate to oblong-ovate leaflets. Flowers are small greenish white and brown in color. Fruits are fleshy, juicy, dark purple or black, nearly spherical, about 1 cm in diameter. It is found throughout the hills in India. This perennial climber is also found in the hotter part of India from Jammu and Rajasthan to Assam extending into the peninusular India upto 600 m height. Whole plant of Cayratia trifolia has been reported to contain yellow waxy oil, steroids/terpenoids, flavonoids, tannins upon preliminary phytochemical screening. Leaves contain stilbenes (piceid, reveratrol, viniferin, ampelopsin). Stem, leaves, roots are reported to possess hydrocyanic acid, delphinidin and several flavonoids such as cyanidin is reported in the leaves. This plant also contains kaempferol, myricetin, quercetin, triterpenes and epifriedelanol. Infusion of seeds along with extract of tubers is traditionally given orally to diabetic patients to check sugar level of blood. Paste of tuberous is applied on the affected part in the treatment of snake bite. Whole plant is used as diuretic, in tumors, neuralgia and splenopathy. Its climbers wrapped around the neck of frantic bullock and poultice of leaves are used to yoke sores of bullock. The bark extract shows the antiviral, antibacterial, antiprotozoal, hypoglycemic, anticancer and diuretic activity. This article focuses on the upgraded review on chemical and biological properties of Cayratia trifolia Linn. and triggers further investigation on this plant.
In selective catalytic reduction (SCR) systems for diesel vehicles the injected urea solution decomposes to ammonia and isocyanic acid (HNCO), which reacts with water to another ammonia molecule and carbon dioxide over the SCR catalyst or a special urea decomposition catalyst. The second reaction step, i.e. the catalytic hydrolysis of HNCO was studied on the anatase TiO2(101) surface and Al2O3(100) surface with ab initio density functional theory (DFT) calculations using a cluster model as well as with in situ diffuse reflectance infrared Fourier transform spectra (DRIFTS) investigations and kinetic experiments. The following mechanistic pathway has been identified to be most feasible: HNCO dissociatively adsorbs on the metal oxide surface as isocyanates, which are attacked by water, thereby forming carbamic acid at the surface. In a further step this intermediate is transformed to a carbamate complex, which leads to CO2 desorption and consequently NH3 formation. The comparison between the sum of the theoretical vibrational spectra of the reaction intermediates with the in situ DRIFT spectra also strongly supports the accuracy of the second reaction pathway. This mechanism holds also for the HNCO hydrolysis over γ-Al2O3 and the reactivity compared to TiO2 was found to be consistent with the heights of the barriers in the energy diagrams. Based on these promising preliminary results a computational screening has been started in order to predict the most active metal oxides and surfaces for this reaction.
Objective: The purpose of this present study was to investigate the mineral, nutritional and anti-nutritional compositions of melon (Citrullus lanatus) seed flour. Methods: The proximate compositions were determined by soxhlet extraction, AOAC, Kjeldhal and other standard procedure 1,2 . Mineral contents were determined using Atomic Emission Spectrometry, Atomic Absorption Spectrophotometry and Vanado-molybdate method, while anti-nutrient determinations were carried out using standard procedures 3-5 . Results: The results obtained from proximate analysis were: moisture content (7.10%), ash content (2.70%), crude protein (30.63%), crude lipid (49.05%), crude fiber(6.00%), carbohydrate (4.52%), dry matter (92.90%), organic matter (97.30%) and energy value (582.05Kcal/100g). The mineral analysis showed that iron have the highest value (144.70mg/100g), followed by manganese (22.73mg/100g), zinc (21.05mg/100g) and magnesium (20.46mg/100g), while calcium was the least (0.10mg/100g). The Na/K and Ca/P ratio were 0.043 and 0.002 respectively. The anti-nutritional factors analyzed were oxalate (26.40mg/100g), tannin (39.40mg/100g) and hydrocyanic acids (1.56mg/100g). Conclusion: The results of the study revealed that Citrullus lanatus seed flour is a good source of important nutrients such as fat, protein, fiber and minerals. The high contents of protein and fat make these seeds valuable dietary supplements especially for people in the rural areas where there are lack of adequate access to dairy foods and meats.
Abstract Three aspects of the catalytic reduction of NOx have been investigated with particular emphasis on Cu-ZSM5. The reaction using methane shows a large kinetic isotope effect which is absent with isobutane. Thus, while abstraction of hydrogen from methane is rate determining, a different step plays that role with higher hydrocarbons. With Cu-ZSM5 and Co-ZSM5 the equilibration step, NO to NO2, is incomplete below 400°C in the presence and absence of methane. However, conversion of NO2 to NO is near complete when using isobutane over Cu-ZSM5, possibly due to a process which also maintains the catalyst free of deposited material. Measurements of the further reactions of isocyanic acid, HNCO, over Cu-ZSM5 at 270°C show that its rate of hydrolysis to CO2 and NH3 is fast while that with NO to give N2 and N2O is absent.
Abbreviations: CPL -cationic peptide lipid; FBS -fetal bovine serum; FITC -fluorescein isothiocyanate; IADE -isothiocyanic acid dodecyl ester; PBS -phosphate buffered saline; PI -propidium iodide; Span80 -sorbitan monooleate; Tween80 -polyoxyethylene (20) sorbitan monooleate
Cayratia trifolia Linn. Domin Syn. Vitis trifolia (Family: Vitaceae) is commonly known as Fox grape in English; Amlabel, Ramchana in Hindi and Amlavetash in Sanskrit. It is native to India, Asia and Australia. It is a perennial climber having trifoliated leaves with 2-3 cm long petioles and ovate to oblong-ovate leafl ets. Flowers are small greenish white and brown in color. Fruits are fl eshy, juicy, dark purple or black, nearly spherical, about 1 cm in diameter. It is found throughout the hills in India. This perennial climber is also found in the hotter part of India from Jammu and Rajasthan to Assam extending into the peninusular India upto 600 m height. Whole plant of Cayratia trifolia has been reported to contain yellow waxy oil, steroids/terpenoids, fl avonoids, tannins upon preliminary phytochemical screening. Leaves contain stilbenes (piceid, reveratrol, viniferin, ampelopsin). Stem, leaves, roots are reported to possess hydrocyanic acid, delphinidin and several fl avonoids such as cyanidin is reported in the leaves. This plant also contains kaempferol, myricetin, quercetin, triterpenes and epifriedelanol. Infusion of seeds along with extract of tubers is traditionally given orally to diabetic patients to check sugar level of blood. Paste of tuberous is applied on the affected part in the treatment of snake bite. Whole plant is used as diuretic, in tumors, neuralgia and splenopathy. Its climbers wrapped around the neck of frantic bullock and poultice of leaves are used to yoke sores of bullock. The bark extract shows the antiviral, antibacterial, antiprotozoal, hypoglycemic, anticancer and diuretic activity. This article focuses on the upgraded review on chemical and biological properties of Cayratia trifolia Linn. and triggers further investigation on this plant.
In selective catalytic reduction (SCR) systems for diesel vehicles the injected urea solution decomposes to ammonia and isocyanic acid (HNCO), which reacts with water to another ammonia molecule and carbon dioxide over the SCR catalyst or a special urea decomposition catalyst. The second reaction step, i.e. the catalytic hydrolysis of HNCO was studied on the anatase TiO 2 (101) surface and Al 2 O 3 (100) surface with ab initio density functional theory (DFT) calculations using a cluster model as well as with in situ diffuse reflectance infrared Fourier transform spectra (DRIFTS) investigations and kinetic experiments. The following mechanistic pathway has been identified to be most feasible: HNCO dissociatively adsorbs on the metal oxide surface as isocyanates, which are attacked by water, thereby forming carbamic acid at the surface. In a further step this intermediate is transformed to a carbamate complex, which leads to CO 2 desorption and consequently NH 3 formation. The comparison between the sum of the theoretical vibrational spectra of the reaction intermediates with the in situ DRIFT spectra also strongly supports the accuracy of the second reaction pathway. This mechanism holds also for the HNCO hydrolysis over c-Al 2 O 3 and the reactivity compared to TiO 2 was found to be consistent with the heights of the barriers in the energy diagrams. Based on these promising preliminary results a computational screening has been started in order to predict the most active metal oxides and surfaces for this reaction.
The selective catalytic reduction (SCR) process with urea is an efficient technology for the reduction of nitrogen oxides emissions of diesel vehicles [1] [2] [3] [4] . The reason for the use of urea is its easy thermal decomposition to ammonia, which is the real reducing agent in the SCR reaction. In a typical SCR system urea thermolyses in the hot exhaust gas to ammonia and isocyanic acid (HNCO), which hydrolyzes on the SCR catalyst to ammonia and carbon dioxide [2, [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] [13] [14] [15] [16] [17] [18] . The SCR catalyst can be disburdened from this additional reaction by the application of a specialized hydrolysis catalysts upstream of the SCR catalyst [2, 5, 6] . We screened a series of single and mixed metal oxides for this reaction and titania in the anatase modification was found to be a most active [19] . Compared to titania, alumina proved to be much less active and silica showed only low activity for the HNCO hydrolysis. In order to explain the superior properties of titania for this reaction we investigated the mechanism of the HNCO hydrolysis on the TiO 2 anatase (101) surface by a combination of DFT calculations and experimental techniques [20, 21] . Two reaction pathways could be identified, a first in which water enters the reaction sequence at a late stage and which proceeds via molecular adsorption of HNCO and oxygen vacancy formation [20] , and a second in which water is involved right from the beginning and which proceeds by dissociative adsorption of HNCO and carbamic acid formation [21] . The second reaction scheme with an early participation of water is more likely than our first reaction scheme since it involves lower energy barriers. Moreover, the measured reaction orders of the HNCO hydrolysis over TiO 2 and the measured in situ DRIFT spectra could only be reconciled with the second reaction pathway.
In a study completed by D. C. Bomberger and J. H. Smith at SRI International for the American Petroleum Institute in Nov. 1977, stripped sour waters from eight refineries processing California, Middle East, Gulf Coast, and Mid-Continent crudes were analyzed for organic components, oxidized sulfur compounds, and heavy metals. Analytical problems existed with ammonia, cyanides, and sulfides. Ammonia fixation (i.e., formation of ammonia that is resistant to removal by additional steam) was not related to heavy metals, but appeared to be caused by weak organic acids and sulfur compounds, such as thiosulfuric and thiocyanic acids. Neither the acids nor the sulfur compounds could be firmly associated with a particular crude source or crude processing operation. The amount of fixation for a particular unstripped sour water could be predicted by potentiometric titration or by batch stripping with nitrogen to pH 6. Ammonia fixation could be eliminated by adding caustic to the sour water stripper, preferably at the top of the column. Caustic substitution for steam was economically attractive when > 97% ammonia removal levels were required. In the absence of fixed ammonia, caustic addition degraded sulfide removal efficiency. Simple cyanides (but not metal-complexed cyanides) were readily stripped under typical refinery conditions.
The alkaline hydrolyses of a series of S-aryl thiocarbamate esters have been measured and the mechanism confirmed to be dissociative. Equilibrium constants for the synthesis of thiocarbamates from thiol and isocyanic acid have been obtained for aqueous media using both kinetic and analytical techniques. Hammett and Bronsted parameters for the equilibrium reaction indicate that there is less positive effective charge on the sulphur in the thiocarbamate compared with that on the oxygen in the oxygen analogue. Theoretical arguments are advanced to show that the dissociative reactions of simple carbamate anions involve a planar geometry of the participating atoms.
Provided is a novel cyanic acid ester compound which has excellent solubility in solvents and enables the production of a cured article having a low thermal expansion coefficient and excellent flame retardancy and heat resistance. The present invention is a cyanic acid ester compound represented by formula (1). (In the formula, Ar represents an aromatic ring; R1's independently represent a hydrogen atom, an alkyl group or an aryl group; n's independently represent an integer of 1 to 3; the sum total of m and n, i.e., m+n, is the same as the total number of hydrogen atoms in a monovalent aromatic group produced from the aromatic ring and hydrogen atoms; R2 represents a hydrogen atom (wherein a case in which Ar represents a benzene ring, n's independently represent 1, R1 represents a hydrogen atom, m's independently represent 4, and a cyanate group is bound to position-4 of an adamantyl group is excluded) or an alkyl group having 1 to 4 carbon atoms; and R3 represents a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group having 1 to 4 carbon atoms.)
FIELD: organic chemistry, amino acids, chemical technology. SUBSTANCE: invention describes method of synthesis of D,L-methionine or its salt by conversion of the following components: 3-methylmercaptopropionic aldehyde, hydrogen cyanide or hydrocyanic acid salt, ammonium or ammonium salt and carbon dioxide or carbonic acid salt in the presence of water to 5-(2-methylmercaptoethyl)-hydantoin followed by its hydrolysis to the corresponding end product. Before conversion of components a mixture is prepared preliminary that contains predominant part, at least 5/10, of 3- methylmercaptopropionic aldehyde, at least 1/10 of hydrogen cyanide or hydrocyanic acid salt and less 5/10 of each components of ammonium or ammonium salt, carbon dioxide or carbonic acid salt. Then mixture is mixed with at least one component to yield 5-(2-methylmercapto- -ethyl)-hydantoin being the latter at least one component can be stirred preliminary with a single or some mixtures. Invention describes also method of continuous synthesis of D, L-methionine or its salt. Also, invention describes two variants of method. The first variant involves hydrolysis in the presence of from 0.1 to 7 equivalents of ammonia per each equivalent of 5-(2-methylmercaptoethyl)-hydantoin. The second variant involves hydrolysis in the presence of metallic zirconium or zirconium alloy containing at least 10 wt.-% of zirconium. Also, invention describes method of isolation of D,L-methionine from alkaline metal methionate. EFFECT: enhanced degree of purification, increased yield of end product. 41 cl, 3 dwg, 7 ex
Descurainia sophia and Lepidium apetalum, belonging to Cruciferae (Brassiaceae) family, are widely distributed in China, and their seeds are commonly called "Nan Tinglizi" and "Bei Tinglizi" in Chinese, respectively. So far large quantity of unique glucosinolate degradation products such as isosulfocyanic acids and thioglycosides have been isolated from the two plants, together with other types of active principles, such as cardiac glycosides, flavonoids, terpenoids, sterols, cumarins, alkaloids, phenolic acids, volatile oils, fixed oils, and amino acids. The two plants have the significant effects on cadiovascular diseases and hyperlipemia, and the active principles have entitled the plant to serve several different bioactivities including antihypertensive, anticarcinogenic, cytotoxic, and antioxidative effects. This paper reviews in detail the categorization of chemical constituents from L. apetalum and D. sophia and their pharmacological activities.
Hydroxynitrile lyases (HNLs) catalyze the conversion of chiral cyanohydrins to hydrocyanic acid (HCN) and aldehyde or ketone. Hydroxynitrile lyase from Arabidopsis thaliana (AtHNL) is the first R-selective HNL enzyme containing an α/β-hydrolases fold. In this article, the catalytic mechanism of AtHNL was theoretically studied by using QM/MM approach based on the recently obtained crystal structure in 2012. Two computational models were constructed, and two possible reaction pathways were considered. In Path A, the calculation results indicate that the proton transfer from the hydroxyl group of cyanohydrin occurs firstly, and then the cleavage of C1-C2 bond and the rotation of the generated cyanide ion (CN(-)) follow, afterwards, CN(-) abstracts a proton from His236 via Ser81. The C1-C2 bond cleavage and the protonation of CN(-) correspond to comparable free energy barriers (12.1 vs. 12.2 kcal mol(-1)), suggesting that both of the two processes contribute a lot to rate-limiting. In Path B, the deprotonation of the hydroxyl group of cyanohydrin and the cleavage of C1-C2 bond take place in a concerted manner, which corresponds to the highest free energy barrier of 13.2 kcal mol(-1). The free energy barriers of Path A and B are very similar and basically agree well with the experimental value of HbHNL, a similar enzyme of AtHNL. Therefore, both of the two pathways are possible. In the reaction, the catalytic triad (His236, Ser81, and Asp208) acts as the general acid/base, and the generated CN(-) is stabilized by the hydroxyl group of Ser81 and the main-chain NH-groups of Ala13 and Phe82.
A systematic kinetic study on the oxidation of glycine by N-bromosuccinimide (NBS) in presence of mercuric acetate in acetic acid—water media has been made. Near first order dependence inNBS and glycine and near inverse first order dependence in hydrogen ion concentrations have been observed. A negligible ionic strength effect and a positive dielectric effect have been observed. Various rate parameters have been computed and hydrocyanic acid identified as the end product. On the basis of the kinetic data, a mechanism of the reaction has been proposed.
A two-step chemoenzymatic synthesis of (R)-2-amino-1-(2-furyl)ethanol for laboratory production was developed followed by successful up-scaling to kilogram scale. The generation of the asymmetric centre was accomplished by a highly enantioselective cyanohydrin reaction of furan-2-carbaldehyde with hydrocyanic acid catalyzed by the hydroxynitrile lyase from Hevea brasiliensis. Subsequent sodium borohydride reduction furnished the desired product with an enantiomeric excess of higher than 99.5%. This procedure can be considered a convenient general route for the stereoselective synthesis of ethanol amine derivatives underlining the role of biocatalysis for the generation of stereogenic centres in the synthesis of chiral intermediates.
1. ::: ::: The reaction of bis(trifluoromethyl) ketene and its imines with hydrocyanic acid and the ways of stabilizing carbanions containing a nitrile group have been studied. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: The structure of N,N-bis(α-cyanohexafluoroisobutenyl)-p-methoxyaniline has been determined by x-ray diffraction analysis.
Anticyan is a highly effective antidote of cyanic acid and cyanide-containing compounds. It was created at the Institute of Pharmacology and Toxicology of AMS of Ukraine. Anticyan differs from other existing cyanide antidotes in that it possesses a tready methemoglobin-formation activity, has no hypotensive effect and is capable of direct stimulation of cyanide-inhibited tissue respiration. Language: ru
The photolysis of isocyanic acid vapor has been studied at temperatures ranging from −31 to 200 °C, and pressures from about 2 to 200 mm. Products identified were CO and N2 in a ratio which varied from 2.5 to 5, together with much smaller amounts of hydrogen. The mechanismaccounts approximately for the products of the photolysis at low HNCO pressures and low temperatures. Additional reactions of NCO radicals with HNCO are postulated to account for increased production of CO and N2 as the temperature and HNCO pressures were increased.The effects of adding ethylene and hydrogen to the system were briefly investigated. The results are explained in terms of reactions of NH and NCO radicals with hydrogen and ethylene.
The influence of alcohol, ascorbic acid, phenol and thiocyanic acid on the formation of N-nitrosochlordiazepoxide from chlordiazepoxide and nitrous acid was investigated by means of high-performance liquid chromatography.
Two episodes of cyanide poisoning occurred in children after ingestion of apricot kernels. The first episode involved eight children who exhibited typical signs and symptoms of cyanide poisoning two hours after having ingested a large amount of apricot kernels. Seven children recovered. One died soon after admission. The second episode involved 16 children who had eaten a sweet prepared from such kernels. The symptoms and signs were identical with those in the first group but appeared one-half hour after the ingestion and were much more severe. Thirteen children recovered, two died shortly after admission, and a third child died two hours later. Apricot kernels contain a cyanogenetic substance called amygdalin, which after hydrolysis, liberates hydrocyanic acid. This activation usually occurs only after ingestion. In the second instance hydrolysis probably occurred during the preparation of the sweet, explaining the short interval between the ingestion and the appearance of the signs of poisoning.
In the 450 Cu. ft. fumatorium with a load of 200 boxes filled with excelsior (but without fruit, excepting what was placed in key positions for the determination of scale kill and fruit injury), the dosage of liquid hydrocyanic acid varied from 80 cc. to 400 cc. or from 17 cc. to 88 cc. per 100 cubic feet. The highest dosage, 88 cc. per 100 cubic feet, was greatly in excess of that necessary to kill the latania scale, but it was given to determine what injury to the fruit might occur. The injury that resulted was slight in view of the excessive dosage used. The experiment involved mature sound fruit of the Fuerte variety.
Amygdalin is a cyanogenic glycoside initially obtained from the seeds of bitter almonds. It is composed of one molecule of benzaldehyde, two molecules of glucose and one molecule of hydrocyanic acid. Various ways of amygdalin application play a different role in recipient organism. Intravenous infusion of amygdalin produced neither cyanidemia nor signs of toxicity, but oral administration resulted in significant blood cyanide levels. The present in vivo study was designed to reveal whether amygdalin is able to cause changes in the haematological profile and thus alter the physiological functions, using rabbits as a biological model. Adult male rabbits (n = 20) were randomly divided into five groups: the control group without any amygdalin administration, two experimental groups received a daily intramuscular injection of amygdalin at a dose 0.6 and 3.0 mg.kg -1 b.w. and other two groups were fed by crushed apricot seeds at dose 60 and 300 mg. kg -1 b.w., mixed with commercial feed over the period of 14 days. After two weeks, haematological parameters in whole blood were analysed (WBC - total white blood cell count, LYM - lymphocytes count, MID - medium size cell count, GRA - granulocytes count, RBC - red blood cell count, HGB - haemoglobin, HCT - haematocrit, MCV - mean corpuscular volume, MCH - mean corpuscular hemoglobin, MCHC - mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration, RDWc - red cell distribution width, PLT - platelet count, PCT - platelet percentage, MPV - mean platelet volume, PDWc - platelet distribution width) using haematology analyser Abacus junior VET. Our findings indicate that intramuscular and oral application of amygdalin for two weeks did not significantly affect the haematology parameters in experimental animals. In this study, no obvious beneficial or negative effects of amygdalin administration on the blood of male rabbits were observed.
Synthetic lubricating oil composition comprising a major portion of an aliphatic ester base oil having lubricating properties formed by the reaction of a pentaerythritol or trimethylolpropane and an organic monocarboxylic acid containing from about 0.01 to 2.5 weight percent of an imminium salt of thiocyanic acid represented by the formula: RR'C=N HR'' S CN in which R represents an aromatic radical, a hydroxy aromatic radical or a conjugated olefinic radical having from 6 to 18 carbon atoms, R' represents hydrogen or an aliphatic radical having from 1 to 12 carbon atoms and R'' is an aliphatic radical having 1 to 20 carbon atoms, and from about 0.04 to 2 weight percent of a polyhydroxy-substituted anthraquinone represented by the formula:
Isocyanic acid, HNCO, the imide of carbon dioxide, was prepared by reaction of stearic acid and potassium cyanate (KOCN) at 60 °C in a sealed, thoroughly dried reactor. Interestingly, its crystal structure, solved by X-ray single crystal diffraction at 123(2) K, shows a group–subgroup relation for the NCO– anion to carbon dioxide: (for CO2, cP12, Pa3, a = 5.624(2) A, 150 K, C–O 1.151(2) A; for HNCO, oP16, Pca21, a = 5.6176(9), b = 5.6236(8), c = 5.6231(7) A, 123(2) K). Precise positions of H, N, C, and O were determined by DFT calculations with WIEN2k leading to interatomic distances C–O 1.17, C–N 1.22, N–H 1.03, and −N–H···N 2.14 A, and the interatomic angle N–C–O 171°.
Using a combination of mass spectrometric techniques, it is shown that 5-amino-4-cyanoisoxazole molecular ions (1+.), lose isocyanic acid HNC=O, not fulminic acid, HC=N --> 0. Metastable ion fragmentations (unimolecular and collision induced) and deuterium-labelling experiments are in agreement with the formation of a cumulenic structure, HN=C=C=C=NH (3a+.). The hitherto unreported molecules HNCCCNH are also shown to be stable when formed in the low-pressure gas phase of the mass spectrometer by using the technique of neutralization-reionization mass spectrometry. The arguments developed for the characterization of 3a+. have also been extended to the methylated and phenylated analogues 3b+. and 3c+. [RN=C=C=C=NH+., R = CH3 or C6H5]. On flash-vacuum pyrolysis at 700-degrees-C, 1 also loses HN=C=O producing the cumulene 3a, which is in turn readily tautomerized into malononitrile via wall collisions.
Fertilizer urea is sometimes found to contain biuret as an impurity, which is formed during the prilling or granulation of crystalline urea, when the temperature of the reaction rises above its melting point. When urea is heated above its melting point, it decomposes to form isocyanic acid and ammonia. Isocyanic acid then condenses with urea to form biuret.
Amygdalin is a cyanogenic glycoside initially obtained from the seeds of bitter almonds. It is composed of one molecule of benzaldehyde, two molecules of glucose and one molecule of hydrocyanic acid. Various ways of amygdalin application play a different role in recipient organism. Intravenous infusion of amygdalin produced neither cyanidemia nor signs of toxicity, but oral administration resulted in significant blood cyanide levels. The present in vivo study was designed to reveal whether amygdalin is able to cause changes in the haematological profile and thus alter the physiological functions, using rabbits as a biological model. Adult male rabbits (n = 20) were randomly divided into five groups: the control group without any amygdalin administration, two experimental groups received a daily intramuscular injection of amygdalin at a dose 0.6 and 3.0 mg.kg -1 b.w. and other two groups were fed by crushed apricot seeds at dose 60 and 300 mg. kg -1 b.w., mixed with commercial feed over the period of 14 days. After two weeks, haematological parameters in whole blood were analysed (WBC -total white blood cell count, LYM -lymphocytes count, MID -medium size cell count, GRAgranulocytes count, RBC -red blood cell count, HGB -haemoglobin, HCT -haematocrit, MCV -mean corpuscular volume, MCH -mean corpuscular hemoglobin, MCHC -mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration, RDWc -red cell distribution width, PLT -platelet count, PCT -platelet percentage, MPV -mean platelet volume, PDWc -platelet distribution width) using haematology analyser Abacus junior VET. Our findings indicate that intramuscular and oral application of amygdalin for two weeks did not significantly affect the haematology parameters in experimental animals. In this study, no obvious beneficial or negative effects of amygdalin administration on the blood of male rabbits were observed.
Abstract High values of NOx reduction may be obtained with urea as a reducing agent and a standard SCR catalyst based on TiO2-WO3-V2O5. The process was carefully investigated for possible secondary emissions and it could be shown that urea-SCR does not lead to relevant emissions of nitrogen dioxide, nitrous oxide, hydrogen cyanide and isocyanic acid. Further investigations using a HPLC method have also proved that addition compounds of higher molecular mass than urea (and urea itself) are not emitted in appreciable amounts as long as the process is properly managed, i.e., as long as the emission of ammonia is kept low. The limiting secondary emission is ammonia slip, the major problem when ammonia is used directly as a reducing agent.
While feeding Jowar as a fodder some of the varieties have been found responsible for a considerable cattle mortality. The hydrocyanic acid producing glucocides in very succulent plants are liable to cause fatal results...
Amygdalin is known as vitamain B17, and it was called laetrile. Amygdalin is com posed of two molecules of glucose, one molecule of benzaldehyde which induces an analgesic action, and one molecule of hydrocyanic acid which is an anti-neoplastic compound. Amygdalin had been used to treat cancers and relieve pain. In order to evaluate whether the analgesic action of amygdalin is related with descending pain control system, we performed patch clamp study. In the present study, the modulatory effects of amygdalin on glycine- and glutamate-induced ion currents in periaqueductal gray (PAG) neurons were investigated using the nystatin-perforated patch clamp method. Continuous application of lipopolysaccharides (LPS) on PAG neurons resulted in increased glycine-induced ion current, and in decreased glutamate-induced ion current. In contrast, continuous application of amygdalin with LPS resulted in decreased glycine-induced ion current increased by LPS, and increased glutamateinduced ion current decreased by LPS in concentration- and time-dependent fashion. These results demonstrate that amygdalin modulates neuronal activity of PAG by modulation of glycine and glutamate. Based on the present results, it can be suggested that amygdalin participates in the regulation of the descending pain control system in the level of PAG neurons. The present study demonstrated that activation of the descending pain control system is one of the possible analgesic mechanisms of amygdalin. words: cyclooxygenase-2, periaqueductal gray neurons (PAG), glycine, glutamate, patch clamp, amygdalin
This paper addresses the NOx removal from diesel exhaust by using urea-SCR technique with focus on critical operating conditions, particularly low temperatures. The investigations were performed on a special laboratory test bench enabling the supply of aqueous urea solution (“AdBlue”) or gaseous NH3 to practical model exhaust. The SCR tests were made with a commercial V2O5/WO3/TiO2 honeycomb catalyst showing very similar performance between 250 and 400 °C when dosing AdBlue and NH3. However, below 200 °C the activity of urea-SCR was clearly lower than that of NH3-SCR due to incomplete conversion of urea and formation of deposits covering the reactor wall. ATR-IR analyses evidenced that these residues consist of urea as well as cyanuric acid originated from side-reactions of isocyanic acid. Furthermore, ramping the temperature upon urea-SCR forced the deposits towards consecutive reactions mainly resulting in cyanuric acid. Consequently, our study provides insights into the dynamic decomposition behavior or urea-related residues relevant for reliable SCR process in diesel exhaust.
Addition of hydroxylamine, ammonia and hydrocyanic acid to 4-benzoylamino-3-keto-2-(δ-carbomethoxybutylidene)-thiophane and to 4-benzoylamino-3-keto-2-benzylidenethiophane has been investigated. 4-Benzoylamino-3-keto-2-(δ-carbomethoxybutylidene) thiophane participates in a nucleophilic addition reaction both at the carbonyl group, and at the multiple bond, unlike 4-benzoylamino-3-keto-2-benzylidene-thiophane, which reacts only at the carbonyl group.
PURPOSE: A purifying equipment of cokes gas and method thereof is provided, which can remove hydrogen sulfide, ammonia and hydrogen cyanide efficiently by removing carbon dioxide prior to absorption of hydrogen sulfide. CONSTITUTION: The system comprises a hydrogen sulfide absorber(2), an ammonia absorber(3), a high purity ammonia solution tower(6), an ammonia distillation tower(7) and a condenser(17a). The purifying method of cokes gas(1) comprises the following steps; (i) absorb carbon dioxide by feeding condensate to the cooling water supplied to the cooling stage(11) at the bottom of hydrogen sulfide absorber(2) and by recirculating ammonia solution; (ii) feed the absorbent of carbon dioxide to recover of ammonium thiocyanate, followed by contact with acidic gas to be supplied with hydrogen sulfide and ammonium thiocyanate required to synthesize thiocyanic acid; and (iii) produce ammonium thiocyanate by oxidizing hydrogen sulfide, the absorbent of carbon dioxide being supplied with oxygen.
A method for the simultaneous determination of cyanocobalamin, cobinamide (Factor B), and hydroxocobalamin in the solid state is described. The method is based on heating at 120 degrees for cobinamide and at 140-145 degrees for cyanocobalamin (15-20 min). The cyano content in the sample is distilled as hydrocyanic acid, trapped in 0.1 M potassium nitrate at pH 12-13, and determined by means of the cyanide ion-selective electrode. The error of this method, statistically established, does not exceed +/-3%.
We describe the isolation and spectroscopic characterization of the heavier phosphorus-containing analogue of isocyanic acid (HPCO), and its isotopologue (DPCO). This fundamental small molecule, which has been postulated to exist in interstellar space, has thus far only been observed at low gas phase concentrations or in inert gas matrices. In this report we describe its synthesis, spectroscopic properties, and reactivity in solution.
Evaluation of four botanicals Vernonia amygdalina L., Bryophyllum pinnatum L., Eucalyptus globules Labill and Ocimum gratissimum Kurz (Clocimum) for chemical and nutritional properties was conducted at Ago Iwoye in South-western Nigeria. The results from the investigation showed that V. amygdalina contained large quantity of Thiamine, Pyridoxine, Ascorbic acid, Glycine, Cysteine and Casein hydrolysate significantly more than other botanicals. Similarly, all the botanicals contained carbohydrates, proteins and lipids. However, the acid contents of B. pinnatum and E. globules were significantly higher than those of V. amygdalina and O. gratissimum. Similarly, the hydrocyanic acid and oxalic acid contents of B. pinnatum and E. globules were significantly (p = 0.05) higher than those of O. gratissimum. Moreover, the four botanicals contained mineral nutrients and sugars; hence, if the botanicals were used to treat cowpea plants, all these would be supplied to cowpea plants and so enhance their performances
The present study was undertaken to investigate the diuretic and anti-inflammatory activities of Amaranthus hybridus in experimental albino rats. The preliminary phytochemical investigations were carried out to identify the various chemical constituents present in the ethanol extract. It was found that the extract contains alkaloid, flavonoid, saponin, tannins, phenols, hydrocyanic acid and physic. Acute toxicity studies of plant extract were determined and LD50 was found to be 707.1mg/kg. Doses of 1000, 500, 250, 125,62.5 and 31.25mg/kg of the extract were administered intraperitoneally, furosemide (40mg/kg) was used as positive control in diuretic and Aspirin (100mg/kg) was also used as positive control as anti-inflammatory drug. The extract exhibited a significant increase in urine volume and the electrolyte at different concentration of 1000mg to 31.25mg. At 1000mg and 500mg concentration (2.55 0.07 and 2.15 0.07) respectively, exhibit a significant difference (P<0.07). This extract exhibit an increase in sodium (Na+) excreted at higher doses from 1000mg to 250mg (136.50 0.07, to 119.00 1.41), The potassium (K +) level decreases as the doses decreased from 1000mg to 250mg (17.50 0.71 to 14.50 0.71) and chloride concentration of the extract increases as the concentration also increased from 1000mg/kg to 250mg/kg (89.50 0.71, to 112.50 0.71) they are exhibited significant difference (P 0.05). Therefore, there was no significant difference between the treated group of biocarbonatic (HCO-3) at a concentration of 1000mg (25.00 0.000) (P). The average inflammation on the hind paw decreased as the time intervals increased from 30mins to 180mins, which shows 5.75 0.35 to 3.55 0.35, there was a significant anti-inflammatory activity (P< 0.05) exhibited at a various doses of the extract. The % inflammation on the hind paw of rats decreased as the time interval increased from 83.8 0.35 to 05.1 0.35 (P< 0.05). There was increase in % inflammation as dose decreased down in concentration (P<0.05), there was a significant difference. However, the % inhibition of inflammation increases as the time intervals increased from 16.6 0.35 to 34.8 0.36, at all the doses of extract and also exhibited significant difference (P<0.05). This study has demonstrated the anti-inflammatory and diuretic activity of ethanol leaf extracts of Amaranthushybridus in reducing of inflammation and induced diuretic in albino rats and this may be due to the presence of flavonoids and tannins in the plant.
Abstract Aim Chronic kidney disease (CKD) and diabetes mellitus are two diseases that accelerate protein molecular ageing through carbamylation and glycation reactions, characterized by the binding of urea-derived isocyanic acid and of sugars on proteins, respectively. These two reactions target the same protein amino groups and, thus, compete with each other. Such competition may arise especially in diabetic patients with nephropathy. This study aimed to evaluate their potential competitive effects in vitro and under conditions reproducing CKD and/or diabetes in vivo . Methods Albumin was incubated in vitro with glucose, urea or cyanate. Carbamylation in vivo was enhanced in normal and diabetic ( db/db ) mice by either subtotal nephrectomy or cyanate consumption. Homocitrulline, carbamylated haemoglobin and furosine were measured by LC–MS/MS, fructosamine by colorimetric assay and HbA 1c by immunological assay. Results Reciprocal inhibition between carbamylation and glycation was observed during albumin incubations in vitro . Besides, 5 weeks after induction of CKD in vivo , plasma homocitrulline concentrations were similar in both diabetic and non-diabetic mice, whereas fructosamine and HbA 1c were decreased (−23% and −42%, respectively) in diabetic mice with CKD compared with only diabetic ones. Fructosamine and HbA 1c were also decreased in cyanate-spiked water-drinking mice compared with plain water-drinking diabetic mice. Conclusion Carbamylation competes with glycation in vivo , especially under conditions of high glycation. Thus, the classic markers of glycaemic control should be interpreted with caution in diabetic patients with CKD because of this competitive effect.
Objective To study the target binding of chitosan nanoparticles with glycyrrhizin surface modification to hepatic parenchymal cells in vitro. Methods Flow cytometry was used to study the binding and intake capability of hepatocytic cells to chitosan nanoparticles labeled with rhodamine B isosulfocyanic acid (RBITC-CS-NPs) or to chitosan nanoparticles modified with glycyrrhizin (RBITC-CS-NPs-GL) on the surface. Results Compared with the control group,the size of the cells got enlarged and the number of granules in cytoplasm increased after the combination of hepatic parenchymal cells with RBITC-CS-NPs or RBITC-CS-NPs-GL.The fluorescence intensity expression in the cells combined with RBITC-CS-NPs-GL was higher than that in the cells combined with RBITC-CS-NPs.After being exposed to different concentrations of RBITC-CS-NPs or RBITGCS-NPs-GL,the transfection rate of hepatic parenchymal cells to RBITC-CS-NPs-GL was markedly higher than that to RBITC-CS-NPs especially at the concentration of 25μg·mL-1and 50μg·mL-1(P0.01).The intake of the nanoparticles by the cells was saturated at 300 g·mL-1 and 500μg·mL-1,and the transfection rate was over 90%. At the initial phase of the combination of RBITC-CS-NPs-GL with the cells(within one hour),their active targeting binding mediated by glycyrrhizin was obvious. Conclusion There is a combination site of glycyrrhizin on the surface of hepatic parenchymal cells,and chitosan nanoparticles with glycyrrhizin surface modification may enhance the hepatic-targeting transportation of the drug-containing carrier through the mediation of glycyrrhizin.
Hydroxynitrile lyases catalyze the reversible cleavage of α-cyanohydrins to yield hydrocyanic acid and the corresponding aldehyde or ketone. Besides its biological interest, this class of enzymes is also of relevance in industrial biocatalysis for the enantioselective condensation of HCN with a variety of aldehydes and ketones. Several distinctly different types of hydroxynitrile lyases (HNLs) are known, which must have originated through convergent evolution from different ancestral proteins. Three-dimensional structural data are known for three classes of hydroxynitrile lyases. Insights into the reaction mechanisms emerged from a combination of structural, enzyme kinetic, spectroscopic, and molecular modeling data. For all three types of HNLs, mechanisms involving acid–base catalysis were proposed. In members belonging to the α,β-hydrolase type, the amino acid residues of the catalytic triad presumably act as general acid/base, whereas for flavine adenine dinucleotide (FAD)-dependent HNLs a single histidine residue fulfills this function. In the third type of HNL—which is related to carboxypeptidase—acid–base catalysis involves the carboxylate of the C-terminal residue. The catalytic relevance of a positive electrostatic potential in the active site was suggested in some of the mechanistic proposals. © 2003 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Polym Sci Part A: Polym Chem 42: 479–486, 2004
The thermal behavior of oxytetracycline hydrochloride (OTC) antibiotic was evaluated using TG–DTA, TG–FTIR and DSC. Information was obtained regarding thermal stability and decomposition steps. From TG–FTIR, it was possible to identify some of the products of its thermal decomposition as chloridric acid, water, isocyanic acid, dimethylamine, methane, carbonic gas and ammonia, and carbon dioxide from the decomposition of the isocyanic acid. According to DSC data, melting occurred concomitantly with decomposition. The TG/DTG, DTA and DSC curves, together with the FTIR spectra of the volatile decomposition products, were used to propose a mechanism for oxytetracycline decomposition.
Termites are primarily wood-feeding insects, consisting of approximately 2,650 species worldwide. Some of the subterranean termite species are major pests that destroy agricultural crops, live trees, and wooden structures in the houses. Thus, termites cause significant economic losses in tropical and subtropical areas, and the occurrence of termites in cultivable lands is becoming a major threat to crop plants worldwide. Termite control in agricultural crops is usually done by adopting suitable cultural practices or by preventing termite infestations through application of physical and chemical insecticidal barriers. However, due to long persistence of residual chemical insecticides in soil and their possible entry in food chain, recently there is more emphasis on characterization of biocontrol agents for control of termites that are safer and environment friendly. Different pathogens including bacteria, fungi, protozoa, viruses, and nematodes have been found to kill the termites under laboratory as well as under field conditions. These pathogens could be applied as bio-termiticides. The various microorganisms, however, differed substantially in their pathogenicity to termites. The various metabolites responsible for killing of termites could be either the production of toxins, siderophores, proteases, and hydrocyanic acid or through suppression of immune system. Synergistic combination of biocontrol agents with chemical pesticides and cultivation of termite-resistant crops could help in the management of termites under field conditions.
Abstract Among NO X emission sources, the automotive industry and specifically Diesel engines are the main pollutants. Selective catalytic reduction by Hydrocarbons (HC-SCR) may lead to efficiencies as high as 70% in reducing NO X into N 2 specially by using economical catalysts (zeolites). We report here an HC-SCR study using acetylene (C 2 H 2 ) as a reducing agent that presents intersting activity at low temperatures. A ferrierite zeolite catalyst was used and modified by the introduction of either copper or iron and the NO X reduction activity was analysed by InfraRed (IR) operando techniques subsequent to a preliminary IR in-situ characterization. The later technique allowed the identification of the species formed on the surface after NO or C 2 H 2 adsorption at room temperature. The thermal stability of adsorbed acetylene was also investigated. The obtained information on vibrational bands typical for adsorbed species served as an input for the IR operando study. Cu-HFER catalyst presents a strong redox character upon room temperature interaction with NO as well as a strong affinity for C 2 H 2 adsorption. However, Fe-HFER shows a higher NO X reduction efficiency when submitted to SCR conditions. Indeed, iron ions enhance the NO oxidation into NO 2 that seems to be more reactive with C 2 H 2 . The reaction mechanism was revealed by an FT-IR operando study coupled with 15 NO isotopic labelling that proved the formation of hydrocyanic acid and isocyanate species as key intermediate species.
Amygdalin is known as vitamain B17, and it was called laetrile. Amygdalin is composed of two molecules of glucose, one molecule of benzaldehyde which induces an analgesic action, and one molecule of hydrocyanic acid which is an anti-neoplastic compound. Amygdalin had been used to treat cancers and relieve pain. In order to evaluate whether the analgesic action of amygdalin is related with descending pain control system, we performed patch clamp study. In the present study, the modulatory effects of amygdalin on glycine-and glutamate-induced ion currents in periaqueductal gray (PAG) neurons were investigated using the nystatin-perforated patch clamp method. Continuous application of lipopolysaccharides (LPS) on PAG neurons resulted in increased glycine-induced ion current, and in decreased glutamate-induced ion current. In contrast, continuous application of amygdalin with LPS resulted in decreased glycine-induced ion current increased by LPS, and increased glutamateinduced ion current decreased by LPS in concentration-and time-dependent fashion. These results demonstrate that amygdalin modulates neuronal activity of PAG by modulation of glycine and glutamate. Based on the present results, it can be suggested that amygdalin participates in the regulation of the descending pain control system in the level of PAG neurons. The present study demonstrated that activation of the descending pain control system is one of the possible analgesic mechanisms of amygdalin.
Plant growth-promoting (PGP) microorganisms are beneficial soil microorganisms which may facilitate plant growth both directly and indirectly. Direct stimulation may include providing plants with fixed nitrogen, soluble phosphate, iron chelators and phytohormones, while indirect stimulation includes inhibiting phytopathogens (biocontrol), thus promoting plant growth and development. Novel microorganisms with PGP and biocontrol traits are found at much higher incidences in forests, pasture soils and herbal compost than in arable soils (Torsvik, Ovreas, and Thingstad 2002; Tinatin and Nurzat 2006) . Vermicompost and vermiwash prepared from herbals not only benefit crop plants, as they contain beneficial microorganisms that help the plants to mobilise and acquire nutrients, but also inhibit many plant pathogenic microorganisms and promote plant growth (Postma, Montanari, and Van den Boogert 2003; Suthar, Choyal, Singh, and Sudesh 2005; Nath and Singh 2009; Gopalakrishnan et al. 2010 Gopalakrishnan et al. , 2011a . Earlier, we reported a set of seven Streptomyces strains isolated from herbal vermicompost, including the three Streptomyces strains reported in this study namely CAI-21, CAI-26 and MMA-32, which had the potential for PGP and control of charcoal-rot disease, caused by Macrophomina phaseolina (Tassi) Goid., in sorghum (Gopalakrishnan et al. 2011b) . Also, the selected Streptomyces strains produced siderophore, hydrocyanic acid, protease, chitinase (except CAI-21) and indole acetic acid (Gopalakrishnan et al. 2011b) . The objective of this study was to characterise the three Streptomyces strains for their physiological traits (salinity, temperature, pH and antibiotic resistance) and to further evaluate under field conditions, their PGP traits in rice grown using the system of rice intensification (SRI) method. In the SRI method of rice cultivation, a set of agronomic practices are followed involving transplanting young (8Á12 days old) seedlings, wider spacing, less synthetic fertiliser and growing plants in no standing water except at transplanting (Uphoff 2001; Kumar et al. 2010) .
1,3-Oxazolidine-2-thiones are known as an important class of heterocycles having significant biological and pharmacological activities [1] . They have wide applications as chiral auxiliaries in asymmetric syntheses [2 -11] and play a vital role as starting materials for further transformations in organic syntheses [12 -14] . Although a number of emerging methods are available to build up these heterocycles [15 -17] , few synthetic routes have been reported for functionalized NH-1,3-oxazolidine-2-thiones. The simple 1,3-oxazolidine-2-thiones are generally prepared by thiocarbonylation of β -amino alcohols with CS 2 [18 -21] and by the reaction of thiocyanic acid with α-hydroxyketonens [22, 23] . In this protocol, an expedient method is described for the synthesis of a number of 5-aroyl-NH-1,3-oxazolidine-2-thiones by the reaction of α- epoxyketones with thiourea or sodium thiocyanate under mild conditions.
1. The changes in urinary sulphur and nitrogen excretion were followed in rabbits, on a constant diet, subjected to hydrocyanic acid vapour in closed cages, over periods of weeks. 2. The neutral sulphur was relatively and absolutely increased on cyanide administration, the increase being approximately accounted for by the excretion of thiocyanate. 3. The rise in neutral sulphur excretion was usually accompanied by a corresponding fall in inorganic sulphate sulphur which equalled or surpassed the rise. Such findings were not without exception. 4. Cyanide poisoning caused an increase in the total nitrogen excretion of the urine and an increase in the N:S ratio both of which are in keeping with an increased catabolism of body protein. 5. Cyanide solution (n/100), administered to rabbits by slow intravenous injection, was recovered in the urine as thiocyanate, in proportions varying from 61 to 100 per cent, with an average of 72 per cent of the amount injected. When thiocyanate was injected as such, from 64 to 100 per cent, with an average of 80 per cent was recovered in the urine. 6. The increased urinary excretion of neutral or unoxidized sulphur in cyanide poisoning is believed to be due primarily to the detoxication process rather than to depressed oxidation. 7. If thiocyanate formation is not the only method of cyanide detoxication other processes are very secondary in importance to it.
Traditional statistical approaches, entirely based on transition state theory (TST), do not allow the description of rotational state distributions in the products of indirect reactions governed by short-range forces. Owing to the interpretative power of TST, this limitation has long been acting as a brake upon a deep understanding of determining attributes of indirect reaction dynamics. Recently, however, we developed a statisticodynamical approach (SDA) of final state distributions for triatomic unimolecular reactions [P. Larregaray, L. Bonnet, and J. C. Rayez, J. Chem. Phys. 114, 3349 (2001); Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 4, 1577 (2002); 4, 1781 (2002)]. The approach combines TST for the description of state distributions at the transition state (TS) and the linear transformation model for the description of their alteration on the way from the TS to the products. The whole description is mostly analytical, thus keeping the rationalizing spirit of TST. The goal of the present series is to extend SDA to the case of four-atom planar unimolecular reactions, assuming that internal vibrations of the nascent products are conserved from the TS on. This first part is concerned with formal developments while the remaining parts deal with their validation and application, in particular to the fragmentation of isocyanic acid.
This invention relates to a method and its associated device, oxidation of alkali metal cyanides and / or metal in aqueous solution. Said method comprises adding to said solution, maintained at a pH sufficient to minimize or avoid the release of hydrocyanic acid therein, a powerful oxidant. Typically, said strong oxidizing agent is hydrogen peroxide and is added to said solution subjected to the action of ultrasound.
The invention aims at the chemical industry field, and relates to a preparation method of a medicinal D,L-2-hydroxy-4-methylthiobutyric acid metal chelate. The method comprises the following steps: carrying out a reaction of a hydrocyanic acid mixed gas prepared through an Andrussow process and methylthiopropionaldehyde as initial raw materials to obtain a 2-hydroxy-4-methylthiobutyronityile system, hydrating the 2-hydroxy-4-methylthiobutyronityile system to obtain D,L-2-hydroxy-4-methylthiobutyramide, and hydrolyzing to obtain D,L-2-hydroxy-4-methylthiobutyrate; and chelating D,L-2-hydroxy-4-methylthiobutyrate with a trace metal element salt to obtain the D,L-2-hydroxy-4-methylthiobutyrate. The method has the advantages of mild technological conditions, few side reactions, low production cost and simple purifying operation, and the obtained D,L-2-hydroxy-4-methylthiobutyrate has a high purity and a large bulk density, and can be used as an animal feed additive or a medicinal reagent.
The cycloaddition reactions of isothiocyanic acid and methylenimine forming four-or six-mem- bered ring products were studied theoretically. Bader type electron density topological analysis was also used to study the electronic structure of stationary points for the equimolar reaction. All the geometries of the stationary points on the reaction path have been optimized by RHF/6-31G*, MP2/6-31G* and B3LYP/6-31G* with energy gradient technique, and the single point energy calculations of the stationary points of equimolar reaction have been performed by MP 4. 6-31G* method at MP2/6-31G* optimized geometries. All the transition states were characterized by vibration frequency analysis. The equimolar reaction is stepwise, proceeding via a zwitterionic intermediate; the second step is the rate controlling one and the activation barrier is 107. 86 kJ/mol. In addition, the above intermediate can react further with another methylenlmine or isothiocyanic acid molecule respectively to form two six-membered ring(1: 2 and 2: 1) products. The 1: 2 reaction is concerted but asynchronous, the 2: 1 reaction is a synchronous concerted process. The barriers of these two reactions are 15. 88 and 21. 82 kJ/mol respectively and they are lower than that of reaction forming four-membered ring product. This is consistment with experimental fact.
ABSTRACT. ::: The preference of cassava as a major host by Prostephanus truncatus Horn is a major constraint to ample production of cassava, Manihot esculenta Crantz and storage. This study analyzed the nutritional and secondary metabolite compositions in 15 cassava varieties, evaluated levels of damage and reproduction by P. truncatus, and assessed their resistance to attack. One hundred grams of dried cassava chips in 250-ml Kilner jars were infested with 10 adult larger grain borerof 0–10 days old and held for 3 months. The nutritional and secondary metabolites compositions of the dry cassava chips were determined using the method of Association of Analytical Chemists . Chip perforation rates in the cassava varieties ranged from 17.7 to 71.6%. The weight of cassava powder varied by about threefold. The final number of larger grain borer in the cassava varieties varied by about sixfold with 63 in 01/0040 and 379 in 01/1368. Hydrocyanic acid content content varied by over 10-fold and correlated negatively with number of larger grain borer. Flavonoid content varied by ∼10%. Tannins and saponin content of the cassava negatively correlated with number of adult P. truncatus. The cassava varieties 95/0166, 92/0326, 01/0040, 05/0024, and 34 91934 had selection index <0.8 and were classified as resistant to larger grain borer damage, while others with selection index >0.8 were classified as susceptible. The resistance to high damage in the resistant varieties was conferred by secondary metabolites such as tannins, saponins, alkaloids, and hydrocyanic acid content. The genetic variation in cassava varieties could be explored to breed resistant cassava varieties for use in larger grain borer-endemic areas.
The NH(a1Δ)+CO(X1Σ+) product channel for the photodissociation of isocyanic acid (HNCO) on the first excited singlet state S1 has been investigated by means of time-sliced ion velocity map imaging technique at photolysis wavelengths around 201 nm. The CO product was detected through (2+1) resonance enhanced multiphoton ionization (REMPI). Images were obtained for CO products formed in the ground and vibrational excited state (v=0 and v=1). The energy distributions and product angular distributions were obtained from the CO velocity imaging. The correlated NH(a1Δ) rovibrational state distributions were determined. The vibrational branching ratio of 1NH (v=1/v=0) increases as the rotational state of CO(v=0) increases initially and decreases afterwards, which indicates a special state-to-state correlation between the 1NH and CO products. About half of the available energy was partitioned into the translational degree of freedom. The negative anisotropy parameter β indicates that it is a vertical direct dissociation process.The NH(a1Δ)+CO(X1Σ+) product channel for the photodissociation of isocyanic acid (HNCO) on the first excited singlet state S1 has been investigated by means of time-sliced ion velocity map imaging technique at photolysis wavelengths around 201 nm. The CO product was detected through (2+1) resonance enhanced multiphoton ionization (REMPI). Images were obtained for CO products formed in the ground and vibrational excited state (v=0 and v=1). The energy distributions and product angular distributions were obtained from the CO velocity imaging. The correlated NH(a1Δ) rovibrational state distributions were determined. The vibrational branching ratio of 1NH (v=1/v=0) increases as the rotational state of CO(v=0) increases initially and decreases afterwards, which indicates a special state-to-state correlation between the 1NH and CO products. About half of the available energy was partitioned into the translational degree of freedom. The negative anisotropy parameter β indicates that it is a vertical direct disso...
Free radicals in the γ-irradiated solid of isocyanic acid at −196 °C have been studied by electron spin resonance (ESR) spectroscopy at −196–−100 °C. An oriented solid of isocyanic acid was prepared by solidification of isocyanic acid around an aluminum rod with cooling for the measurement. The ESR spectra consisted of a pair of triplets and a pair of sextets, when the longitudinal axes of the oriented solid were parallel and perpendicular, respectively, to the dc magnetic field. The absorptions were assigned to an anion radical (HNCO−) by analysis of anisotropy of the spectrum and by deuteration of isocyanic acid. The observed constants were: g⊥=2.0025, g⁄⁄=1.9985; Ax(N)=21.2 G, Ay(N)=24.8 G, Az(N)=21.8 G. The anion radical was assumed to be preferentially oriented in the oriented solid, taking two orientations whose g⁄⁄ axes were perpendicular both to each other and to the longitudinal axis of the oriented solid.
In 1828, Friedrich Wöhler, a German physician and chemist by training, published a paper that describes the formation of urea, known since 1773 to be a major component of mammalian urine, by combining cyanic acid and ammonium in vitro. In these experiments the synthesis of an organic compound from two inorganic molecules was achieved for the first time. These results weakened significantly the vitalistic hypothesis on the functioning of living cells, although Wöhler, at that time, was more interested in the chemical consequences of isomerism than in the philosophical implications of his finding. However, the chemical synthesis observed by Wöhler does not represent the reaction which is employed in the mammalian liver for urea synthesis. The mechanism of this process was elucidated by the German physician Hans A. Krebs and his medical student Kurt Henseleit in 1932 and was shown to include the ornithine cycle. This 'urea cycle' is only observed in living cells; this apparently vitalistic phenomenon is caused by the compartmentalization of the various enzymatic reactions in mitochondria and cytosol, respectively.
Trichoderma species are potential fungal bio-control agents used against a wide range of soil borne plant pathogens. In the present study a total of 20 Trichoderma isolates viz., AT1, AT2, AT3, AT4, AT5, AT6, AT7, BT1, BT2, BT3, BT4, BT5, BT6, BT7, BT8, BT9, BT10, BT11, BT12, BT13 were isolated from vegetable fields of Kashmir valley and their efficacy was tested by using various biochemical tests. Thirteen isolates of Trichoderma viz., AT1, AT2, AT3, AT4, AT5, AT6, AT7, BT1, BT7, BT8, BT10, BT11 and BT12 were found to be positive for ammonia production. Similarly twelve isolates viz., AT2, AT3, AT7, BT1, BT3, BT4, BT7, BT8, BT10, BT11, BT12 and BT13 were found to be positive as far as the chitinase activity is concerned. In the IAA production assay maximum IAA was produced by isolate BT9 (6.605 µg mL ), while minimum IAA was produced by isolate AT1 (1.538 ìg mL -1 ). Only five isolates viz., AT1, AT2, AT3, AT4 and AT5 metabolized lactose and sucrose while seven isolates viz., AT1, AT2, AT3, AT4, AT5, AT6 and AT7 were found to metabolize maltose. Hydrocyanic acid (HCN) was observed to be produced by only three isolates of Trichoderma viz., AT3, AT5 and AT7. Trichoderma isolate AT3 qualifying most of the biochemical tests were morphological characterized as Trichoderma harzianum.
ABSTRACT. The preference of cassava as a major host by Prostephanus truncatus Horn is a major constraint to ample production of cassava, Manihot esculenta Crantz and storage. This study analyzed the nutritional and secondary metabolite compositions in 15 cassava varieties, evaluated levels of damage and reproduction by P. truncatus, and assessed their resistance to attack. One hundred grams of dried cassava chips in 250-ml Kilner jars were infested with 10 adult larger grain borerof 0-10 days old and held for 3 months. The nutritional and secondary metabolites compositions of the dry cassava chips were determined using the method of Association of Analytical Chemists . Chip perforation rates in the cassava varieties ranged from 17.7 to 71.6%. The weight of cassava powder varied by about threefold. The final number of larger grain borer in the cassava varieties varied by about sixfold with 63 in 01/0040 and 379 in 01/1368. Hydrocyanic acid content content varied by over 10-fold and correlated negatively with number of larger grain borer. Flavonoid content varied by $10%. Tannins and saponin content of the cassava negatively correlated with number of adult P. truncatus. The cassava varieties 95/0166, 92/0326, 01/0040, 05/0024, and 34 91934 had selection index <0.8 and were classified as resistant to larger grain borer damage, while others with selection index >0.8 were classified as susceptible. The resistance to high damage in the resistant varieties was conferred by secondary metabolites such as tannins, saponins, alkaloids, and hydrocyanic acid content. The genetic variation in cassava varieties could be explored to breed resistant cassava varieties for use in larger grain borer-endemic areas.
Extrusion cooking is highly adaptable and focused form of processing in which food or feedstuff is enforced to flow under controlled conditions of heating and shearing through a terminal die. Extrusion processing of feed ingredients has become very popular during the last two decades. The principal features of extrusion cooking include flexible product characteristics, high energy efficiency, less space required for operation, new feed products formulations, automated control system with high productivity and product quality with no effluent showing environmental-friendly technology to be used. Optimized results for temperature (146.0°C), feeding rate (32.7 kgh−1), screw speed (152.5rpm), moisture content (12.5%) and the hydrocyanic acid removal rate (93.23%) were founded during the extrusion detoxification technique on flaxseed via stepwise non-linear regression analysis and response surface method. It has been demonstrated that maximum removal rate of mucilage (60.3%) from flaxseed meal can be achieved at different co-rotating twin-screw extruder die temperatures (80-160°C), screw speeds (300-900rpm) and initial moisture contents ranged as 18.8-35.1% [10] . There exist a relationship between the stability of the flaxseed derived protein and antifungal activity with temperature variable (50-90°C) using response surface methodology [11] . Regression analyses recommended the significant negative consequences on the residual antifungal activity against all test fungi using treatment variable. The protein content exits in flaxseed by means of response methodology with 5 central points and 4 axial points for independent variables [12] . Extrusion cooking improved the degradation of flaxseed mucilage and negatively influences the compact fiber structure flow behavior index with the addition of initial moisture content, high temperature and decreased screw speed [13] .
Recent state‐selected photodissociation experiments on isocyanic acid, HNCO, have provided a wealth of data on its photochemistry and dissociation dynamics. The excited state potential energy surface on which the dissociation occurs is central to these observations but is relatively uncharacterized. We construct a two‐dimensional analytical model for the excited state potential that is consistent with experimental observations, including the ultraviolet absorption spectrum and the dynamics of the C–N and N–H bond dissociations. We then test this surface by running classical trajectories on it, using Morse oscillator vibrational wave functions from the ground electronic state to determine the probability distributions of initial conditions. The trajectory calculation reproduces the experimentally observed variation in the photochemical branching with photolysis wavelength. It also reproduces the bond selectivity in the photodissociation of HNCO molecules containing three quanta of N–H stretching excitation...
The method includes steps: (1) dropping triethoxy - 3 - propyl silicane isocyanic acid to ethanol solution of pH sensitive reagent to obtain reaction fluid A; (2) mixing siloxane, acid, and water to obtain reaction fluid B; (3) mixing reaction fluid A, reaction fluid B and solution of calcium chloride according to proportion to obtain solution C; (4) coating solution C on micropore base of micropore plate, using sealing tape to seal micropores, and using needle to perforate each micropore at center, and protecting from light; after placing it a period of time, the method adds distilled water to micropores, keeping the back up. Features are: simple and convenient, low cost, and high generality. The sensor can be in use for monitoring each hydrolytic reaction, and chemical reaction related to pH change. Satisfactory result is obtained when the sensor is in use for filtering inhibitor of beta -lactamase, and antibiotics of beta -lactam.
A selection of metal ions (Ag(I), Cu(II), Cd(II), Bi(III) and Mn(II)) have been chromatographed on supports impregnated with the liquid anion exchanger. Amberlite LA-2-thiocyanate, formed from the free amine by an indirect method via the chloride form or by a direct method, i.e. with thiocyanic acid, using aqueous ammonium thiocyanate as the mobile phase. Cellulose is preferred to silica gel as the support. The RF values are independent of the method used to convert the free amine to the salt form. The RF values are shown to vary with the impregnation coefficient of the stationary phase and with the composition of the mobile phase. A high degree of reproducibility of RF values is obtainable in the system studied.
This investigation into the reactions of Tyroglyphut farinae to varying concentrations of carbon dioxide and oxygen and to the presence of small quantities of hydrocyanic acid, was carried out in order to obtain some insight into the respiratory activities of the mite, very little being known of its physiological reactions. As a necessary preliminary, its reactions to humidity were determined. T. farinae belongs to the family Tyroglyphidae and respires by direct diffusion through the body surface, since no tracheae are present. These mites infest stored food material, being found on grain, flour and meal. They are associated with the micro-organisms of decay and it might be expected that the gaseous conditions under which they live differ considerably from those of ordinary air. It was decided, therefore, to isolate cultures and to investigate the gaseous changes produced by the organisms in the culture and the effect of such changes on the mites present. The respiratory quotient in normal air was also determined, together with the quotient obtained in the presence of an JVf/iooo solution of potassium cyanide. The reactions of the mite to varying concentrations of carbon dioxide, oxygen and water vapour in the atmosphere were also determined.
Rhizobacteria are used as inoculants to enhance crop yield and for biological control of fungal pathogens. Fluorescent pseudomonads isolated from the rhizosphere of groundnut showed suppression of the phytopathogen Macrophomina phaseolina that causes charcoal rot of groundnut, an economically important agroproduct. Two strains of fluorescent pseudomonads, designated as PS1 and PS2, were selected as a result of in vitro antifungal activity. After 5 days of incubation at 28+/-1 degrees , both PS1 and PS2 caused clear inhibition zones in dual cultures, restricting the growth of M. phaseolina by 71% and 74%, respectively. Both the strains were capable of producing siderophores, indole acetic acid, and hydrocyanic acid, and causing phosphate solubilization under normal growth conditions. These strains, when used as inoculants in groundnut, enhanced germination up to 15% and 30% with subsequent increase in grain yield by 66% and 77%, respectively. Conversely, when the pathogen alone was testeds 57% decrease in yield was recorded. Thus the studies revealed the potential of the two pseudomonads not only as biocontrol agents against M. phaseolina, but also as a good growth promoter for groundnut.
Apparatus and technique are described for use in observing live scale under fumigation with accurately determined concentrations of hydrocyanic acid. ::: ::: Selected resistant and non-resistant black scale crawlers were first exposed in a cell to a sub-lethal but stupefying concentration of hydrocyanic acid, then to a normally lethal concentration. The percentage of survivors from this procedure was compared with that resulting from the reverse order of exposure. ::: ::: Resistant and non-resistant red scale on lemons were fumigated in a gas-tight fumigatorium and also under regular fumigating canvas. Half of the lots were prefumigated with a stupefying dose of hydrocyanic acid and then with the regular dose only. The percentage of survivors from these two procedures were compared. ::: ::: It was concluded from these experiments, that, when a lot of black or red scale is first exposed to a sub-lethal but stupefying concentration of hydrocyanic acid in air, followed by a normally lethal concentration, more of them are able to survive than of a lot upon which the reverse procedure has been followed. This characteristic has been termed “protective stupefaction.” ::: ::: The effect of this phenomenon on commercial fumigation is discussed and suggestions offered for preventing or overcoming it.
A lot of researches have been done on the reaction of isocyanic acid(HNCO) with simple radicals.The researches focus on the reactions of HNCO with some single atoms(H,O,N,F,Cl etc),some two-atom molecules and radicals(OH,NH,CH,CF,CCl,CN,CO etc),three-atom molecules and radicals(HCO,NH2,CHX,NO2,CF2,CCl2 etc) and many-atom molecules and radicals.Some reactions of HNCO with single atoms,two-atom molecules and radicals and many-atom radicals are reviewed.
The present invention provides a novel cyanic acid ester compound capable of giving a cured object which has excellent solubility in solvents and a low coefficient of thermal expansion and is excellent in terms of flame retardancy and heat resistance. The cyanic acid ester compound of the present invention is obtained by cyanating a naphthol/dihydroxynaphthalene aralkyl resin or a dihydroxynaphthalene aralkyl resin.
Methanol and isocyanic acid adsorptions on a defective MgO surface have been studied. Equilibrium geometries, adsorption energies, atomic and molecular charges and electronic densities were obtained using a density functional theory method. Oxide surface atoms with different coordination numbers show very different reactivity giving both molecular and dissociated adsorbed species. The methanol molecule requires lower coordination numbers of the active site than the isocyanic acid molecule for dissociative adsorption. The role of the acidic and basic sites has been considered and analyzed in terms of natural bond orbital charges. The main vibration frequencies have been compared with available infrared spectroscopic data.
Abstract. Isocyanic acid (HNCO), an acidic gas found in tobacco smoke, urban environments, and biomass-burning-affected regions, has been linked to adverse health outcomes. Gasoline- and diesel-powered engines and biomass burning are known to emit HNCO and hypothesized to emit precursors such as amides that can photochemically react to produce HNCO in the atmosphere. Increasingly, diesel engines in developed countries like the United States are required to use selective catalytic reduction (SCR) systems to reduce tailpipe emissions of oxides of nitrogen. SCR chemistry is known to produce HNCO as an intermediate product, and SCR systems have been implicated as an atmospheric source of HNCO. In this work, we measure HNCO emissions from an SCR system-equipped diesel engine and, in combination with earlier data, use a three-dimensional chemical transport model (CTM) to simulate the ambient concentrations and source/pathway contributions to HNCO in an urban environment. Engine tests were conducted at three different engine loads, using two different fuels and at multiple operating points. HNCO was measured using an acetate chemical ionization mass spectrometer. The diesel engine was found to emit primary HNCO (3–90 mg kg fuel−1) but we did not find any evidence that the SCR system or other aftertreatment devices (i.e., oxidation catalyst and particle filter) produced or enhanced HNCO emissions. The CTM predictions compared well with the only available observational datasets for HNCO in urban areas but underpredicted the contribution from secondary processes. The comparison implied that diesel-powered engines were the largest source of HNCO in urban areas. The CTM also predicted that daily-averaged concentrations of HNCO reached a maximum of ∼ 110 pptv but were an order of magnitude lower than the 1 ppbv level that could be associated with physiological effects in humans. Precursor contributions from other combustion sources (gasoline and biomass burning) and wintertime conditions could enhance HNCO concentrations but need to be explored in future work.
Composition and formation cause of the deposits in diesel engine urea-SCR system were investigated with the help of Fourier transform infrared(FTIR)spectrometer and thermal gravimetric(TG)analyzer.Deposits samples were respectively taken from places near the urea nozzle and on the exhaust pipe wall.Results indicate that the two samples of deposits decompose into gas when heated to above 430℃;There are two weight loss stages on the former TG curve in range of 150℃to 250℃the sample decomposes into isocyanic acid and ammonia;and in range of 280℃ to 360℃it decomposes mainly into isocyanic acid.The latter loses its weight mostly in range of 320℃to 400℃and decomposes into isocyanic acid.The former is mainly blend of unreacted urea and biuret and cyanuric acid resulted from insufficient thermal decomposition of urea in low temperature and lack of air flow disturbance conditions.The latter is mainly the cyanuric acid,formed by sprayed urea adhering on wall in low temperature and low exhaust flow conditions,or generated directly by isocyanic acid high temperature polymerization.
Objective To study the expression of HSP70 gene from tissues of breast cancer and cervical cancer.Methods Tissue samples of cancers (breast cancer,cervical cancer)were obtained from operating room of Baoan People'shospita1.RNA was extracted according to the cyanic acid guanidine law of different sulphur separately.RNA separation carried out with 1% agarose electrophoresis.RT-PCR was performed to analyze the expression of HSP70 gene.Results The results showed that the expression level of HSP70 gene of cancer tissue was higher than normal tissue.Conclusion The results indicates that HSP70 gene plays an important role in the development of cancer.It also provides valuable clues for the understanding of mechanism of cancer genesis and gene treatment for cancer.
Cynodon dactylon (Family: Gramineae) is an important medicinal plant which is used for treatment of various ailments in Ayurvedic system of medicine like hallucination, epileptic fits, leprosy, scabies, skin diseases and fever. The aqueous fluid extract of the rhizome is used as antiinflammatory, diuretic, hypoglycemic, antidiabetic, antioxidant and blood purifying agent. The aerial parts of Cynodon dactylon were reported to contain cynodin, hydrocyanic acid, triticin, and beta-carotene. In my research work flavonoid fraction of Cynodon dactylon offered protective effect against CCl4 induced hepatotoxicity by their antioxidant free radical scavenging efficacy in Balb/c and Swiss albino mice and potential immunomodulator of non specific immune response. Phagocytic index and free radial scavenging activity of the extract might be due to the presence of the flavonoids (Quercetin) in Cynodon dactylon.
1. Hydrocyanic acid gas is absorbed by the skin of dogs and guinea pigs. Whether or not the outcome is fatal depends upon the concentration of the gas. 2. Hydrogen sulphide gas is absorbed by the skin of guinea pigs but it is only lethal when large areas of the skin are exposed to the pure gas. 3. Carbon monoxide does not appear to be absorbed by the skin. Further experiments upon this subject are in progress.
Two experiments were conducted to evaluate the effects of processing method (silage making) on the hydrocyanic acid potential (HCNp) of two local varieties cassava leaves (Experiment 1) and tubers (Experiment 2). The study also ascertained the effects of fermented juice (leucaena leaves and napier grass) of epiphytic lactic acid bacteria (FJLB) as additives and their impact on the changes of HCNp content at different duration (0, 2, 7 and 14d) of ensiling. The reduction rate of the HCNp of cassava leaves and tuber ensiled with FJLB additives were significantly higher (P<0.05) than the control silage in both varieties. The reduction of HCNp in final products of FJLB treated silages ranged from 18.54 to 82.30 mg/kg DM. The lowest HCNp (Red cassava, P=0.007 and White cassava, P=0.0001) and the highest lactic acid bacteria counts (Red cassava, P=0.004 and White cassava, P=0.002) were observed after 14d ensiling period in both varieties treated with leucaena FJLB in the second experiment. As indicated by the low HCNp level and high V-score value on 14d after ensiling period, it is concluded that the addition of FJLB to cassava silages was effective in optimum reduction of HCNp besides producing a good quality silage within two weeks. Moreover, a negative correlation between HCNp reduction and pH in of ensiled cassava was observed.
Seedlings of both KS8 and N32 sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] were high in dhurrin [p-hydroxy-(S)-mandelonitrile-pD'glucoside] and thus in hydrocyanic acid potential (HCN-p), but the HCN-p of mature leaves from field-grown plants of KS8 was only about one-tenth as high as that of N32. A study of the inheritance of this large difference between KS8 and N32 revealed that a single major gene pair was responsible. There were no obvious maternal effects and F,'s were generally intermediate in HCN-p level between the two parents, indicating that neither high nor low HCN-p was completely dominant. HCN-p level was influenced by genetic background since mean values of the low and intermediate HCN-p classes increased slightly as the proportion of genetic background ascribable to N32 was increased. A survey of 102 additional sorghums revealed that the gene for low HCN-p carried by KS8 does not appear to occur widely because KS8 had the lowest HCN-p of all entries assayed. Additional index words: Cyanogenesis, Genetics, Hydrocyanic acid,p-Hydroxybenzaldehyde, Prussic acid, Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench, Spectrophotometric assay. THE biosynthesis of the cyanogenic glucoside, dhurrin [p-hydroxy-(S)-mandelonitrile-l3-D-glucoside], in sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] has been studied extensively, and much has been learned about the process (I). However, studies of the inheritance of dhurrin content in this species have been much less conclusive. Nass (10) reviewed published reports on the inheritance of cyanogenesis in sorghum, various Lotus species, and Trifolium repens 1., and concluded that the situation in sorghum was more complex than that in other species. There was general agreement that the hydrocyanic acid potential (HCN-p) of sorghum leaves was a heritable trait, but the reports failed to agree on such matters as dominance of low or high HCN-p and the number of genes involved. Lack of agreement may have been due in part to differences among the various studies with respect to lines and cultivars used, conditions of growth and sampling, and analytical procedures. Krauss (7) concluded that HCN-p in sorghum was governed by four gene pairs with additive effects and without dominance. His work was based on crosses among four sorghum cultivars differing in HCN-p. More recent reports have included information about the HCN-p of hybrids and their parents in forage sorghum (13, 15) and also in sudangrass and sudangrass-sorghum combinations (14), but these studies were not designed specifically to investigate the inheritance of HCN-p. Recently Haskins et al. (4) reported that the two sorghum lines, KS8 and N32, both had high HCNP levels as seedlings, but when upper leaves from , Contribution from the USDA-ARS and the Nebraska Agric. Res. Div., Lincoln, NE 68583. Published as Paper no. 7724, JournalSeries, Nebraska Agric. Res. Div. The work reported wasconducted under Nebraska Agric. Res. Div. Project 12-114. Received 27 Mar. 1985. 2 Supervisory research geneticist, USDA-ARS; George Holmes professor of agronomy; ana supervisoryresearch geneticist, USDAARS, respectively. 65 field-grown plants were compared in mid-August, the HCN-p of KS8 was only about one-tenth as high as that of N32. The existence of this large difference suggested that these lines might be useful in a study of the inheritance of HCN-p in mature sorghum leaves. MATERIALS AND METHODS
To identify the difference degree of four new strains of sorghum-sudangrass with low hydrocyanic acid content SLCN-11,SLCN-12,SLCN-13 and SLCN-14,and their parents at a DNA level,we conducted SSR analyses using the variety Mengnong Qingsi No. 3 as a control. A total of 12 SSR primer pairs with high polymorphism and good reproducibility were screened from 200 developed sorghum SSR primer pairs. The 10 materials were analyzed using these SSR primers. A total of 509 polymorphic loci were amplified,and the percentage of polymorphic loci was up to 87. 30%. Each SSR polymorphic primer pairs could amplify clear and stable bands,which can be used as molecular basis for identifying the four new strains of sorghum-sudangrass. Genetic distance( GD) among 10 materials ranged from 0. 3165-0. 6692,with an average of using 0. 5359; Using the GD value of 0. 50 as a threshold,the 10 materials can be clustered into five groups: Mengnong qingsi No. 3,loose spike sorghum,SLCN-11,SLCN-12 and SLCN-13; SLCN-14 and brown hull sudangrass; white hull sudangrass; black hull sudangras; red hull sudangrass. This study laid the groundwork for the next step breeding,registration and utilization of new sorghum-sudangrass varieties with low hydrocyanic acid content.
Reviewing the reaction of potassium cyanate, an antisickling agent, with alpha-amino groups of hemoglobin, it was found that the reaction was a slow process and requires a large excess of the reagent. The reason for the slow reaction rate of carbamylation of hemoglobin by cyanate is that cyanate itself does not react with hemoglobin. It is rather isocyanic acid, the reactive species, that reacts with hemoglobin. Since the pK of isocyanic acid is 3.8, only one out of 4,000 cyanate ions is present as isocyanic acid at physiological pH. Therefore, it appears that a large excess of cyanate ions is required to achieve the carbamylation of hemoglobin S, both in vivo and in vitro. Furthermore, the pH optimum for carbamylation of carboxyhemoglobin and deoxyhemoglobin is 5.5 and, at pH 7.4, the reaction velocity drops to one-third for carboxyhemoglobin and one-half for deoxyhemoglobin. To seek an approach to reduce the dosage of cyanate and to increase the reaction velocity, an isocyanate derivative, methylisocyanate which is already in the reactive form, was tested for its antisickling activity and its reaction with hemoglobin S. It was found that methylisocyanate had antisickling activity and that only a stoichiometric amount to 2-fold excess of the reagent over hemoglobin S alpha-amino groups was required to prevent the sickling of erythrocytes. Methylisocyanate-treated sickle erythrocytes showed an increased oxygen affinity compared to untreated methylisocyanate reacted with alpha-amino groups of hemoglobin S and the reaction was complete in less than 1 min. Methylcarbamylated hemoglobin S had a higher minimum gelling concentration than the untreated hemoglobin S. There was no detectable reaction of free sulfhydryl and epsilon-amino groups of hemoglobin S with methylisocyanate. These results indicate that methylisocyanate, and probably other isocyanate derivatives, possesses powerful antisickling activity.
Recent advances in nanomaterial science open a promising field toward the removal of organic molecules. In our previous study, it was shown that phenol can be absorbed significantly on gallium-and indium-doped boron nitride nanotubes (BNNTs) 1 and this nanotube model can be used for phenol storage. Surface modification of a BNNT by the sulfamide molecule has been investigated by Beheshtian et al. 2 Their results showed that the sulfamide molecule can be chemically diffused into its wall, accompanied by the release of one NH 3 molecule. Among organic molecules, the proper adsorption of urea is biologically important. The mechanisms of urea decomposition into isocyanic acid (HNCO) and ammonia (NH 3 ) in the gas phase and on the ZnO (1010) surface have been investigated by Gao et al. 3 They showed that urea adsorption on the surface is an exothermic process and the surface can catalyze urea decomposition. In recent decades, active charcoal, 4 oxystarch, 5 oxycellulose, 6 and zirconium phosphate 7 have been used for the removal of urea. Although there have been * Correspondence: baei52@yahoo.com several experimental papers on the removal of urea using organic and inorganic materials, to the best of our knowledge no theoretical investigations have been reported for the removal of urea using nanomaterials yet. Therefore, further study of urea adsorption on nanomaterials is an important task.
In 2008, McLuckey and co-workers studied the gas-phase fragmentation of deprotonated RNA and DNA dinucleotides as well as an RNA 8-mer (GCGGAUUU) [21] . They investigated the octamer in different charge states and applied different excitation levels, which resulted in an increased loss of adenine and a more pronounced generation of a-B-/w-ion pairs. MS 2 and pseudo-MS 3 experiments of the RNA dinucleotides (GpC, CpU, GpU, UpU) were performed to rationalize the relative intensities of the product ions formed upon collision induced dissociation (CID) of the RNA octamer. In each product ion spectrum of the dinucleotide anions (DNA and RNA) loss of isocyanic acid ([M --HNCO] -) was observed, even though in low abundance only and when applying high excitation amplitudes. It was found that pyrimidine bases preferentially release a HNCO neutral, whereas for purine bases, rather loss of HCN is observed. However, the product ion spectrum of the RNA octamer (GCGGAUUU) did not show a signal for isocyanate loss regardless of the charge level and the applied energy.
Loss of HNCO has been frequently observed upon fragmentation of the free pyrimidine nucleobases thymine (T), uracil (U), and cytosine (C), irrespective of the applied dissociation technique and the polarity of the MS acquisition [22] [23] [24] [25] [26] [27] . Rice et al. were the first to describe the loss of isocyanic acid (H-N=C=O) upon EI-MS of pyrimidine derivatives [22] . They stated that the [M -
Michael J.; de Gouw, Joost A.; Veres, Patrick R.; and Roberts, James M., "Investigating diesel engines as an atmospheric source of isocyanic acid in urban areas" (2017 Abstract. Isocyanic acid (HNCO), an acidic gas found in tobacco smoke, urban environments, and biomass-burningaffected regions, has been linked to adverse health outcomes. Gasoline-and diesel-powered engines and biomass burning are known to emit HNCO and hypothesized to emit precursors such as amides that can photochemically react to produce HNCO in the atmosphere. Increasingly, diesel engines in developed countries like the United States are required to use selective catalytic reduction (SCR) systems to reduce tailpipe emissions of oxides of nitrogen. SCR chemistry is known to produce HNCO as an intermediate product, and SCR systems have been implicated as an atmospheric source of HNCO. In this work, we measure HNCO emissions from an SCR system-equipped diesel engine and, in combination with earlier data, use a three-dimensional chemical transport model (CTM) to simulate the ambient concentrations and source/pathway contributions to HNCO in an urban environment. Engine tests were conducted at three different engine loads, using two different fuels and at multiple operating points. HNCO was measured using an acetate chemical ionization mass spectrometer. The diesel engine was found to emit primary HNCO (3-90 mg kg fuel −1 ) but we did not find any evidence that the SCR system or other aftertreatment devices (i.e., oxidation catalyst and particle filter) produced or enhanced HNCO emissions. The CTM predictions compared well with the only available observational datasets for HNCO in urban areas but underpredicted the contribution from secondary processes. The comparison implied that diesel-powered engines were the largest source of HNCO in urban areas. The CTM also predicted that dailyaveraged concentrations of HNCO reached a maximum of ∼ 110 pptv but were an order of magnitude lower than the 1 ppbv level that could be associated with physiological effects in humans. Precursor contributions from other combustion sources (gasoline and biomass burning) and wintertime conditions could enhance HNCO concentrations but need to be explored in future work.
Isocyanic acid (HNCO) is a mildly acidic gas, which is highly soluble at physiologic pH and can participate in carbamylation reactions in the human body (Wang et al., 2007) and lead to adverse health outcomes such as cataracts, atherosclerosis, and rheumatoid arthritis (Fullerton et al., 2008; Scott et al., 2010) . Isocyanates, the family to which HNCO belongs, are extremely hazardous. The accidental release of methyl isocyanate from a pesticide plant in Bhopal, India, in 1984 resulted in thousands of deaths and hundreds of thousands in injuries within weeks of the release (Broughton, 2005) . Although isocyanates are understood to be toxic and regulated through best practices in indoor and occupational environments (Alexeeff et al., 2000; SWEA, 2005) , it is unclear whether ambient concentrations of HNCO (and isocyanates in general) are high enough for it be of concern as an outdoor air pollutant. Roberts et al. (2011) proposed that exposure to HNCO concentrations exceeding 1 ppbv could be harmful to humans.
Moench] were high in dhurrin [p-hydroxy-(S)-mandelonitrile-p-D'glucoside] and thus in hydrocyanic acid potential (HCN-p), but the HCN-p of mature leaves from field-grown plants of KS8 was only about one-tenth as high as that of N32. A study of the inheritance of this large difference between KS8 and N32 revealed that a single major gene pair was responsible. There were no obvious maternal effects and F,'s were generally intermediate in HCN-p level between the two parents, indicating that neither high nor low HCN-p was completely dominant. HCN-p level was influenced by genetic background since mean values of the low and intermediate HCN-p classes increased slightly as the proportion of genetic background ascribable to N32 was increased. A survey of 102 additional sorghums revealed that the gene for low HCN-p carried by KS8 does not appear to occur widely because KS8 had the lowest HCN-p of all entries assayed.
The quantitative and qualitative rabbit semen characteristics fed with a reference diet and a diet formulated with 79.83% of cassava by-products were evaluated. 20 New Zealand White rabbit bucks, with initial average age of seven months were used, individually allocated and distributed in a completely ramdomized design, with two diets (treatments) and ten replications. The ten semen collections per animal were taken during six months. The evaluated parameters were: semen volume without gel and gel volume, color of semen, pH, spermatic progressive motility, spermatic vigor, spermatic concentration, spermatozoa number in the ejaculation, normal spermatozoa, abnormal and primary and secondary abnormalities spermatozoa. The semen volume without gel, the normal spermatozoa, primary and secondary abnormalities spermatozoa were similar (P>0.05) to the animals fed with cassava by-products diet and reference diet. Other semen parameters were better (P<0.05) in the animals fed with the cassava by-products diet. The results of the quali-quantitative characteristics of the semen from New Zealand White rabbits showed that it is possible to use diets containing 79.83% of inclusion of cassava by- products in the diet of rabbit bucks, without affecting semen characteristics, since we observed the reduced level of tannins and hydrocyanic acid.
Higher level of KCI application stimulated both leaf area index and leaf area duration in all cassava varieties, while the leaf and tuber number of the bitter varieties (high cyanide-level varieties) decreased in proportion to the level of KCI application. The root/shoot (R/S) ratio and harvest index (HI) were negatively related with the level of KCI application in all cassava varieties. The bitter varieties obtained the lowest R/S ratio at the level of 100 - 150 ㎏ KCI ha­¹, while the sweet varieties (low cyanide-level varieties) acquired the highest values at the level of 50 - 150 ㎏ KCI ha­¹. Also, the sweet varieties showed the lowest HI at the level of 250 ㎏ KCI ha­¹, but the bitter varieties at the level of 150 ㎏ KCI ha­¹. At 6 - 8 months after planting, the sweet varieties tended to obtain higher starch content of roots (tubers) at the level of 50 - 150 ㎏ KCI ha­¹, while the bitter varieties at the level of 150 - 250 ㎏ KCI ha­¹. Relatively lower level of 50 - 150 ㎏ KCI ha­¹ was more appropriate for decreasing hydrocyanic acid (HCN) content of roots (tubers) in the sweet varieties at the harvest time, and the level of 250 ㎏ KCI ha­¹ was adequate to decrease not only HCN content of leaves but also that of roots (tubers) in the bitter varieties during the growing period. To obtain higher yield and starch content of tubers, and lower HCN content of roots (tubers), it was recommended that the sweet varieties are applied with the level of 50 - 100 ㎏ KCI ha­¹ and the bitter varieties with the level of 150 - 200 ㎏ KCI ha­¹, respectively, in Latosol soils of Bogor areas, West Java.
A total of eight motile, aerobic, Gram-positive and straight rod-shaped, endospore forming Bacillus spp. were isolated from rhizosphere of chickpea plants collected from different agricultural fields. Phylogeny of isolates was studied by partial sequencing of 16S rDNA and comparative analysis of the sequence data confirmed that the isolates belong to distinct phylogenetic lineage corresponding to Bacillus. Phenotyping clusters correlate with ARDRA pattern and showed resemblance to partial 16S rDNA sequencing. Bacillus spp. BSK5 and Bacillus subtilis BSK17 were the most potent strains for having plant-growth-promoting attributes. These two strains solubilised inorganic phosphate, produced Indole acetic acid, siderophore, Hydrocyanic acid and secreted extracellular chitinase and mild β-1,3-glucanase which antagonised and caused mycelial deformities in two phytopathogens Macrophomina phaseolina and Fusarium oxysporum in dual culture and by culture filtrate.
Monoethanolamine (MEA) is currently the benchmark solvent in carbon capture and storage (CCS), a technology aimed at reducing CO2 emissions in large combustion industries. To accurately assess the environmental impact of CCS, a sound understanding of the fate of MEA in the atmosphere is necessary. Relative and absolute rate kinetic experiments were conducted in a smog chamber using online proton transfer reaction mass spectrometry (PTR-MS) to follow the decay of MEA. The room temperature (295 ± 3K) kinetics of oxidation with hydroxyl radicals from light and dark sources yield an average value of (7.02 ± 0.46) × 10(-11) cm(3) molec(-1) s(-1), in good agreement with previously published data. For the first time, the rate coefficient for MEA with ozone was measured: (1.09 ± 0.05) × 10(-18) cm(3) molec(-1) s(-1). An investigation into the oxidation products was also conducted using online chemical ionization mass spectrometry (CI-TOFMS) where formamide, isocyanic acid as well as higher order products including cyclic amines were detected. Significant particle numbers and mass loadings were observed during the MEA oxidation experiments and accounted for over 15% of the fate of MEA-derived nitrogen.
Various plants of the family Gramineae possess a cyanogenetic glycoside which in the presence of an enzyme releases an extremely toxic fraction - Hydrocyanic acid (HCN, Prussic Acid)...
The negative-ion mass spectrometric behavior of N-benzyloxycarbonyl-protected I-substituted and cyclic taurines has been investigated under electrospray ionization conditions. Their fragmentation pathways are proposed and supported by collisionally activated dissociation product-ion spectrometry. The deprotonated substituted taurines preferentially eliminate a molecule of benzyl alcohol to yield isocyanato-sulfonate ions, which further generate alkene-2-sulfonate ions by loss of isocyanic acid. The isocyanato-sulfonate ions of 1-substituted taurines could further generate aziridine-2-sulfonate ion via ring rearrangements by loss of CO plus benzyne and carbene moieties, respectively, while the isocyanato-sulfonate ions of cyclic taurines could further give rise to cycloalkene anion radicals. An obvious substituent effect on the fragmentations of the title compounds was observed. Copyright (c) 2005 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Disclosed is a chitosan derivative having a high optical resolving power. Specifically disclosed is a chitosan derivative represented by the following general formula (I). (I) (In the formula, R1 represents an optionally substituted aliphatic or aromatic group having 1-30 carbon atoms; R2 represents a substituent derived from an isocyanic acid derivative, carboxylic acid, ester, acid halide, acid amide compound, halogen compound, aldehyde or alcohol; and n represents an integer not less than 5.)
Nutritional and antinutritional contents of Parkia biglobosa flower were analysed using standard analytical methods. On dry weight basis, the flower had the following proximate compositions; ash (6.50 ± 1.00%), crude lipid (4.66 ± 0.29%), crude protein (6.77 ± 0.15%), available carbohydrate (78.9 ± 1.18%) and crude fibre (3.17 ± 0.29%). The calorific value was 384.7 kcal/100g. Mineral analysis indicates that the flower contain some essential minerals such as K, Na, Ca, Mg, and Zn, but was low in Cu, Mn, and Fe. The flower has low concentration of anti-nutritive factors: phytate (1.41±0.24mg %); oxalate (0.03±0.01mg %); hydrocyanic acid (0.17±0.01mg %) and nitrate (1.32±0.10mg %). The values ::: are below the reference toxic standard levels. Therefore, P. biglobosa flower could supplement the microelements requirement, energy and to some extent protein.
FIELD: chemistry. SUBSTANCE: invention relates to a method of obtaining carboxylic acid amide from aliphatic ketone with 3-5 carbon atoms and hydrocyanic acid. The method includes the following stages: A) interaction of ketone, taken in the molar excess with hydrocyanic acid with obtaining nitrile of the respective hydroxycarboxylic acid, B) hydrolysis of the obtained nitrile of hydrocarboxylic acid in the presence of a manganese dioxide-containing catalyst; C) processing the reaction mixture, obtained after stage B), by distillation. Distillation is realised in two stages: at the first stage the obtained carboxylic acid amide is separated from the mixture, containing water, the said ketone, hydroxycarboxylic acid nitrile and/or hydrocyanic acid, and at the second stage the said mixture is separated with the separation of the said ketone and hydrocyanic acid as the main product, and water as the bottom product, with the mixture, containing ketone, used at stage A), and possessing the lower content of hydrocyanic content than the mixture, taken away in the upper part of the said column, being introduced with reflux into a distillation column, used for the separation of water and hydrocyanic acid. EFFECT: improved method of obtaining carboxylic acid amide, which makes it possible to increase the period of production installation exploitation with the simultaneous increase of the service term of the hydrolysis catalyst. 11 cl, 1 dwg, 1 ex
We have developed an HPLC method for measuring carbamylated hemoglobin (CarHb), based on the quantification of valine hydantoin formed from the released NH2-terminal carbamyl valine residue after acid hydrolysis of hemoglobin. In uremia, CarHb is produced by nonenzymatic post-translational modification of the terminal amino group of hemoglobin monomers by isocyanic acid, derived from the spontaneous dissociation of urea. We measured CarHb in 25 nonuremic control subjects, 24 nonuremic diabetic subjects, and 30 patients with stable chronic renal failure. There was no significant difference between the controls and diabetic patients, their mean (SD) CarHb values being 41 (11.5) and 38 (10.8) micrograms of carbamyl valine per gram of hemoglobin (microgram CV/gHb), respectively. Mean (SD) CarHb values in the uremic patients were much greater, 164 (87.7) microgram CV/gHb. There was significant correlation between the concentrations of CarHb and plasma urea in the uremic subjects. Thus CarHb provides a urea-derived index of chronic uremia.
Abstract N , N ′-(1,6-Hexanediyl)bisurea oligomerizes thermally in the melt (>190°C) to urea-terminated poly(1,6-hexamethyleneurea) with the volatilization of ammonia and isocyanic acid. At higher temperatures (225–250°C) in the liquid phase, the trimerization of isocyanic acid to cyanuric acid also occurs.
Practical synthesis of 1,3-diaryl-substituted 3-isothiocyanatopropan-1-ones based on the reaction of chalcones with thiocyanic acid generated in situ by treatment of thiocyanate ammonium with dilute sulfuric acid has been developed.
In a combined experimental and theoretical study, we probe the dissociative electron attachment in isocyanic acid HNCO. The experimental absolute cross section for the NCO^{-} fragment shows a sharp onset and fine structures near the threshold. The autoionizing state responsible for the dissociative attachment is found in both the R-matrix calculation and using analytic continuation in the coupling constant. The involved A^{'} resonance has a mixed π^{*}/σ^{*} character along the dissociating bond and thus combines the effects of nonzero electron angular momentum and dipole-supported states. This leads to unusual behavior of its width at various geometries. Because the potential energy gradient of the autoionizing state points essentially in the direction of the N─H bond, nuclear dynamics can be described by a one-dimensional nonlocal model. The results agree with the experiment both quantitatively and qualitatively. The present system may be a prototype for interpretation of the dissociative electron attachment process in a number of other polyatomic systems.
Procedure for safe space fumigation or objects affected by pests simultaneously with sulphuryl fluoride and hydrocyanic acid as ovicidal gas, wherein sulphuryl fluoride and the ovicidal gas low-sublethal, conditions are preferably used in concentrations which are themselves same sublethal regarding eliminating insect eggs, wherein hydrocyanic acid is used at a maximum concentration of 3 g / m3.
When heated in solution at about 160°C, pyridine quaternary salts of bromomalonamides lose 1 mole of cyanic or isocyanic acid almost quantitatively in a manner quite analogous to the decarboxylation of an acid. By DTA and DSC, the crystalline salts are stable up to their melting points (>220°C) at which temperatures concurrent fusion and decyanation processes occur (endotherm); these are immediately followed by an exotherm related to the trimerization of cyanic acid. TGA measurements on the solid salts do not clearly define the loss of 1 mole of cyanic acid because in the solid state, thermal decyanation is accompanied to some extent by other pyrolytic reactions. Preparative methods for quaternizing poly(4-vinylpyridine) with bromomalonamide are described and two polymeric quaternary salts (33 and 100% substituted) were prepared and analyzed. These polyelectrolytes are water soluble and upon the addition of base the yellow polymeric nitrogen ylids are generated. Infrared spectra on the polymeric quaternary salts and visible spectra on the polymeric ylids are included. The ylid chromophore has an e = 1800 at λmax = 415 nm. The dilute solution viscosity behavior of these polymers in H2O and in 0.05N KBr is typical of polyelectrolytes. Both polymers in dilute solution show a maximum in ηsp versus pH plots. In water, the viscosity of these polymers decreases with time, and it is proven that this results from a conformational change which accompanies amide hydrolysis rather than polymer backbone degradation. Glass transitions are not detectable by DTA but both polymers show well-defined trimerization exotherms for cyanic acid starting at 170–175°C. Thus, decyanation of the solid polymeric quaternary salts is more analogous to decyanation of the crystalline quaternarys in solution than as solids. TGA measurements on the polymers show weight losses which are of the correct order of magnitude and in the correct temperature range for monodecyanation. Some data are presented which suggest that perhaps a second mole of cyanic acid is lost at about 250°C. Quaternization of poly(4-vinylpyridine) with bromomalonamide reduces its gross decomposition temperature from 385°C to about 285–317°C. It is demonstrated how thermal decyanation can be used for the in situ generation of cyanic acid for the modification of organic compounds. The preparation of a partial urethane of poly(vinyl alcohol) using this method is described. We have also shown that aliphatic quaternary salts can be prepared and that they too undergo the decyanation reaction.
Combining ability for various qualitative traits viz., crude protein content, hydrocyanic acid content, neutral detergent fibre content and crude fibre content was studied through 3 x 15 line x tester mating design. Highly significant mean squares for gca and sca for majority of the traits indicated that sufficient variability existed for gca effects in the parents and that for the sca effects in the crosses. Higher and significant sca variance suggested a higher non-additive gene action for these traits. Parents S 1049, MP CHARI and GFS-3 among males and SURAT-1 and SURAT-2 among females were found to be the best general combiners. The hybrids viz., SURAT-1 x GFS-3 for crude protein content, SURAT-1 x GUNDRI for hydrocyanic acid content, SURAT-3 x GFS-3 for neutral detergent fibre content and SURAT-3 x AFS-30 for crude fibre content were best specific crosses and, therefore, these can be further exploited for selection of transgressive segregants.
OBJECTIVE ::: To perform follow-up of lung function and respiratory and ocular symptoms in foundry workers exposed to monoisocyanates using the Hot Box method. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Four years after an initial assessment, 25 foundry workers and 55 referents completed a questionnaire and were assessed by spirometry pre- and postshift. Exposure to isocyanic acid, methyl isocyanate, and formaldehyde was measured. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Exposure levels were reduced by 50% at follow-up. A high prevalence of nasal and ocular symptoms remained in both groups, but lower airway symptoms had decreased. Lung function preshift was lower for the exposed group, but lung function over shift was unaffected. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: The high prevalence of nasal symptoms and the small reduction of forced expiratory volume in 1 second preshift in exposed foundry workers at follow-up may indicate a prolonged influence of previous exposure in the working environment despite reduced exposure levels at follow-up.
Correction for 'The stability and generation pattern of thermally formed isocyanic acid (ICA) in airpotential and limitations of proton transfer reaction-mass spectrometry (PTR-MS) for real-time workroom atmosphere measurements' by Mikolaj Jan Jankowski et al., Environ. Sci.
ABSTRACT: Nutritional and antinutritional contents of Parkia biglobosa flower were analysed using standard analytical methods. On dry weight basis, the flower had the following proximate compositions; ash (6.50 ± 1.00%), crude lipid (4.66 ± 0.29%), crude protein (6.77 ± 0.15%), available carbohydrate (78.9 ± 1.18%) and crude fibre (3.17 ± 0.29%). The calorific value was 384.7 kcal/100g. Mineral analysis indicates that the flower contain some essential minerals such as K, Na, Ca, Mg, and Zn, but was low in Cu, Mn, and Fe. The flower has low concentration of anti-nutritive factors: phytate (1.41±0.24mg %); oxalate (0.03±0.01mg %); hydrocyanic acid (0.17±0.01mg %) and nitrate (1.32±0.10mg %). The values are below the reference toxic standard levels. Therefore, P. biglobosa flower could supplement the microelements requirement, energy and to some extent protein.
Enzymatic catabolism of amygdalin in mammals occurs in two stages (see Figure 1 ): a 'first pass' to produce (2) prunasin (D-mandelonitrile b-Dglucoside) and a second path, which gives rise to mandelonitrile (3), which then hydrolyzes to benzaldehyde (4), which induces an analgesic action, and hydrocyanic acid, which is an antineoplastic (Kuroki and Poulton, 1986) . Based on this, some studies have concluded that oral administration of amygdalin in mammals should be more potentially toxic than intravenous injections (Moon et al.; . Interestingly, however, the communities with the lowest rates of cancer worldwide, such as the Abkhazians, the Hopi and Navajo Indians, the Hunzas, the Eskimos and the Karakorum, have in common a diet rich in products with a high content of amygdalin (Enculescu, 2009 ). Original extraction of amygdalin from bitter almond (Prunus amygdalus Batsch) was reported in 1830 by the French chemists Robiquet and Boutron (Robiquet and Boutron, 1830) . Due to the high solubility of amygdalin in polar solvents, solid-to-liquid extractions in combination with High Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC) has become in a very convenient procedure for the isolation and determination of this compound from natural products. Reflux/HPLC methodology, for instance, has been employed for determination in seeds of Prunus armeniaca (Armeniacae semen) (Yan, Tong, Li, and Lou, 2006) , bitter almond (Bolarinwa, Orfila, and Morgan, 2014) and apples (Bolarinwa, Orfila, and Morgan, 2015) ; meanwhile ultrasonic/HPLC has been employed pumila Mill) Comparison between traditional-solvent and microwave methodologies for determinations in Loquat flowers (Chunhua et al.; and Soxhlet/HPLC treatments for apricot, plum and peach oils and kernels (VioricaMirela, et al., 2006) . In this regard, Lv, Ding, and Zheng (2005) reported a comparative study for extraction of amygdalin from the TCMs Apricotkernel and Prunus tomentosa thunb using three different methodologies: ultrasonic extraction by methanol, Soxhlet extraction by methanol, and reflux extraction by water (Lv, et al., 2005) . In such study, refluxing by water was found to be the most effective extraction procedure.
Practical synthesis of 1,3-diaryl-substituted 3-isothiocyanatopropan-1-ones based on the reaction of chalcones with thiocyanic acid generated in situ by treatment of thiocyanate ammonium with dilute sulfuric acid has been developed.
Practical synthesis of 1,3-diaryl-substituted 3-isothiocyanatopropan-1-ones based on the reaction of chalcones with thiocyanic acid generated in situ by treatment of thiocyanate ammonium with dilute sulfuric acid has been developed. Principal condition for successful proceeding of the reaction is the formation of emulsion in the reaction mixture. It should be stressed that its formation does not depend on the melting point of the starting chalcone as evidenced by our data. The optimal overall volume of H 2 O was found to be 0.38 mL per 1 mmol of chalcone, and the chalcone/NH 4 NCS/H 2 SO 4 molar ratio was found to be 1:6:3. If emulsion did not form at room temperature under these conditions, first, slight heating at 50 °C for 1.5 h should be applied, second, 3 equivalents of H 2 SO 4 should be added.
In a combined experimental and theoretical study, we probe the dissociative electron attachment in isocyanic acid HNCO. The experimental absolute cross section for the NCO − fragment shows a sharp onset and fine structures near the threshold. The autoionizing state responsible for the dissociative attachment is found in both the R-matrix calculation and using analytic continuation in the coupling constant. The involved A 0 resonance has a mixed π Ã =σ Ã character along the dissociating bond and thus combines the effects of nonzero electron angular momentum and dipole-supported states. This leads to unusual behavior of its width at various geometries. Because the potential energy gradient of the autoionizing state points essentially in the direction of the N─H bond, nuclear dynamics can be described by a one-dimensional nonlocal model. The results agree with the experiment both quantitatively and qualitatively. The present system may be a prototype for interpretation of the dissociative electron attachment process in a number of other polyatomic systems. DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevLett.121.143402 Dissociative electron attachment (DEA) represents the only way of breaking a molecular bond at impact energies below the electronic excitation threshold. It thus drives the chemical transformation in a number of environments with a high abundance of slow electrons, both where these are primary species (low-temperature plasmas, focused-beam nanofabrication) or where these are secondary species resulting from the interaction of high-energy radiation with matter (radiation damage in biological tissue, astrochemical synthesis). At the same time, our understanding of DEA for polyatomic molecules is surprisingly small. DEA proceeds via the formation of resonances-transient anions-embedded in a continuum. Such temporary anion states give rise to a strong coupling of electronic and nuclear motion and nonadiabatic phenomena [1] .
Double and triple ionisation spectra of the reactive molecule isocyanic acid (HNCO) have been measured using multi-electron and ion coincidence techniques combined with synchrotron radiation and compared with high-level theoretical calculations. Vertical double ionisation at an energy of 32.8 ± 0.3 eV forms the 3A” ground state in which the HNCO2+ ion is long lived. The vertical triple ionisation energy is determined as 65 ± 1 eV. The core-valence double ionisation spectra resemble the valence photoelectron spectrum in form, and their main features can be understood on the basis of a simple and rather widely applicable Coulomb model based on the characteristics of the molecular orbitals from which electrons are removed. Characteristics of the most important dissociation channels are examined and discussed.
The reactions of some alkoxycarbonyl isothiocyanates (2) with 2-aminothiazol (15) afforded thiazolo[3, 2-a]-S-triazine-4-thio-2-one (27), N-alkoxycarbonyl-N'-(2-thiazolyl)-thuoureas (A), alkyl-N-(2-thiazolyl)carbamates (B), N-alkoxycarbonyl thiocarbamates (C) and thiocyanic acid (31). However, in the case using phenoxycarbonyl isothiocyanate (59), the corresponding 1 : 1 adduct of (59) and (15) could not be obtained, but thiazolo-[3, 2-a]-s-thiazine-2-thio-4-one (32) was isolated, besides the cyclic compound (27), thiazolyl carbamate (60) and phenol.
OBJECTIVE To analyze the chemical components of the essential oil from the seeds of Brassica rapa L.METHODS The essential oil of Brassica rapa L.seeds was extracted by steam distillation method.The chemical components of the essential oil were analyzed by GC-MS.RESULTS 25 peaks were separated totally.23 components were identified.The main components were isothiocyanic acid,3-butenyl ester(22.98%),3-methyl-3-butenenitrile(21.29%),5-methylthio-pentanenitrile(10.07%),2,3-dimethylfumaric acid(9.82%),butyl isothiocyanate(9.39%) and allyl isothiocyanate(8.19%).CONCLUSION There are isothiocyanate,nenitrile,carboxylic acid,ester,and little terpene in essential oil of Brassica rapa L..
Analysis of hydrocyanic acid contents of the roots of six sorghum strains revealed the concentration to be high in the seedling, and that it reduced with age. Hydrocyanic acid was also present in the roots of ratoon plants but in lower concentrations than in seed plants of the same strain. Rhizosphere effects on the microbial populations at different stages of plant growth were observed and the effect varied with the strain and age of plant. The rhizosphere:soil (R:S) ratio for bacteria ranged from 1 to 25, for fungi 1 to 17, and for actinomycetes 1 to 6. The rhizosphere effect continued in the ratoon plants in all strains, though to a lesser extent than in seed plants. Statistical analysis of the data for correlation between hydrocyanic acid concentration in roots and the population of rhizosphere microorganisms did not indicate any uniform effect in all the sorghum strains.
The name ‘laetrile’ was coined by Ernst Krebs, Jr. as a condensation of laevorotatory aminonitrile β-glucuronic acid1. The term laetrile as presently used refers to any one of a group of compounds that include amygdalin, prunasin, linamarin, and dhurrin. These compounds are correctly called ‘cyanogenic glycosides.’ The laetrile that is being used illicitly to treat cancer is amygdalin, a β-glucoside containing gentiobiose and the cyanhydrin, mandelonitrite, formed by condensation of benzaldehyde and hydrocyanic acid (HCN)2. Its structural formula is shown in Figure 1 from Conn3. Liebig and Wohler in 1837, described the hydrolysis of amygdalin by an enzyme they called ‘emulsin’ (actually, a mixture of enzymes) present in almonds to yield benzaldehyde, glucose and HCN (cyanide). These products are shown in Figure 1. The other cyanogenic glycosides all contain HCN, condensed with a ketone or aldehyde, and a carbohydrate in β-linkage. A list of some of these is shown in Table 1 taken from Conn2.
Thermal analysis is commonly used in the pharmaceutical field because it is an important tool in the solution of problems involving development, production and quality control of medicines. This paper presents the thermal behaviour of six anticancer active derivatives of 3-(2-furanyl)-8-aryl-7,8-dihydroimidazo[2,1-c][1,2,4]triazin-4(6H)-one. The samples were characterized by the TG–DSC and TG–FTIR analyses. The studied compounds are stable at room temperature which is important for medical application. The TG analysis under dynamic air atmosphere revealed that thermal degradation of the compounds starts above 300 °C and proceeds in two steps. The melting processes of compounds are observed before starting their decomposition or at the beginning of their combustion. Pyrolysis processes under nitrogen atmosphere take place in single or two steps. The major pyrolysis gaseous products identified are ammonia, carbon dioxide, isocyanic acid and its derivatives, hydrogen cyanide, aniline or its derivatives and carbon monoxide.
AbstractAb initio and density functional calculations were used to analyze the interaction between a molecule of the isocyanic acid with 1 up to 4 molecules of ammonia at the B3LYP/6-311++G(d,p) and MP2/6-311++G(d,p) computational levels. The cooperative effect is increased with the increasing size of studied clusters. Red shifts of the H-N stretching frequency for complexes involving the isocyanic acid as an H-donor were predicted. Atom in molecules was used to analyze cooperative effects on topological parameters.Graphical AbstractIdentification of absorption peaks corresponding to NH 4 + and OCN − ions in interstellar grains makes hydrogen bond formation between HNCO and NH 3 molecules more important. In line with this idea, gas phase theoretical studies as well as AIM analysis have been used to investigate the hydrogen bond clusters of HNCO with up to four NH 3 molecules.[IMAGE]
Can 1 ppb of isocyanic acid in air cause 100 μM in the blood stream? The impact of indoor and outdoor isocyanic acid (HNCO) levels may be of concern to human health. HNCO is well soluble in water but hydrolyzes rather slowly. Recently determined thermodynamic data and HNCO hydrolysis kinetics indicate that high blood levels might be reached. This data has been complemented with a brief assessment of kinetic information from the (bio)chemical and medical literature about carbamoylation reactions with proteins, indicating that other bodily elimination mechanisms cannot be ignored. Expected incremental blood levels corresponding to 1 ppbv HNCO in air are estimated to be in the low nM range. Acute toxic effects therefore seem unlikely, but chronic exposure to higher concentrations may still be of significance.
BACKGROUND ::: Carbamylation is a posttranslational modification of proteins resulting from the nonenzymatic reaction between isocyanic acid and specific free functional groups. This reaction alters protein structural and functional properties and thus contributes to molecular ageing. Many studies have shown the involvement of carbamylated proteins in diseases, especially in chronic renal failure and atherosclerosis. ::: ::: ::: CONTENT ::: In this review we describe the biochemical basis of the carbamylation process and its role in protein molecular ageing. We summarize the current evidence of protein carbamylation involvement in disease, identify available biomarkers of the carbamylation process and their related analytical methods, and discuss the practical relevance of these biomarkers. ::: ::: ::: SUMMARY ::: Carbamylation-induced protein alterations are involved in the progression of various diseases, because carbamylation-derived products (CDPs) are bioactive compounds that trigger specific and inappropriate cellular responses. For instance, carbamylation may promote hormone and enzyme inactivation, and carbamylated proteins, as diverse as collagen or LDLs, induce characteristic biochemical events of atherosclerosis progression. CDPs are potential biomarkers to monitor diseases characterized by an increased rate of carbamylation (e.g., chronic renal failure and atherosclerosis). Different methods (e.g., liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry and immunoassays) to measure specific carbamylated proteins or general markers of carbamylation, such as protein-bound homocitrulline, have been described. Their use in clinical practice must still be validated by appropriate clinical studies.
The effects of two processing methods (soaking and wilting) and three processing times (12, 24 and 48h) on the hydrocyanic acid potential (HCNp) of two varieties of cassava tuber were evaluated. The initial HCNp content in the Red cassava Red (165.04 mg/kg DM basic) was higher than White cassava (103.22 mg/kg DM basic). However, both processing methods were equally effective in reducing the HCNp content in both of Red and White cassava varieties. Regarding the varieties, white cassava possessed the lower HCNp (p 0.05) of processing methods on HCNp and its reduction rates of both cassava varieties were found, however the significant effect (p<0.05) processing times were observed. The significant interactions (p<0.05) between processing methods and times were observed for both cassava varieties. The lowest (p<0.05) HCNp content and the highest (p<0.05) reduction rate are observed at 48h in both processing methods. Moreover, the longer processing time, the less (p<0.05) HCNp content and the more (p<0.05) reduction rate are detected for both processing methods. Thus, cassava tuber could be soaked or wilted for 48h before utilizing as animal feed.
Hydrocyanic acid or prussic acid poisoning of livestock by sorghums [Sorghum bicolor (L.)Moenchl and sudangrasses [Sorghum sudanese (Piper) StapfJ is caused by the digestive liberation of hydrocyanic acid (HCN) from the cyanogenic compound, dhurrin [(S)-p-hydroxymandelonitrile ,8-D-glucopyranosideI found in tissue of these plants. Recent research documented that dhurrin is also present in indiangrass [Sorghastrum nutans (L.) Nash] seedlings. The purpose of this study was to determine the hydrocyanic acid potential (HCN-p) of forage from established stands of indiangrass. Five cultivars representative of indiangrass germplasm of the Great Plains were sampled during the growing season for 2 years from 2 sites in eastern Nebraska. The HCN-p of the indiangrass sampled in this study exceeded 750 mg-1 kg dry wt. (dangerous level) only in spring when new growth was 20 cm tall or less. Levels were less than 500 mg-1 kg (safe) when new growth was at least 40 cm tall and were very low (<200 mg-1 kg) or not detected when the forage was over 1 m tall. Pure stands of indiangrass that are grazed when the new growth is less than 20 cm tall could be lethal to livestock.
Industrial processes emit large amounts of diverse pollutants into the atmosphere, among which NOx takes a significant portion. Selective non-catalytic reduction (SNCR) is a relatively simple method for the NOx reduction in large industrial facilities such as power plants, cement plants and waste incinerators plants. It consists of injecting the urea-water solution in the hot flue gas stream and its reaction with the NOx. During this process flue gas enthalpy is used for the urea-water droplet heating and for the evaporation of water content. After water evaporates, thermolysis of urea occurs, during which ammonia, a known NOx reductant, and isocyanic acid are generated. In order to cope with the ever stringent environmental norms, equipment manufacturers need to develop energy efficient products that are at the same time benign to environment. This is becoming increasingly complicated and costly, and one way to reduce production costs together with the maintaining the same competitiveness level is to employ computational fluid dynamics (CFD) as a tool, in a process today commonly known under the term “virtual prototyping”. The aim of this paper is to show capabilities of the developed mathematical framework implemented in the commercial CFD code Fire to simulate physical processes of all relevant phenomena occurring during the SNCR process. First, mathematical models for description of SNCR process are presented and afterwards, models are used on the 3D geometry of real industrial case to predict SNCR efficiency, temperature and velocity field. Influence of the main operational parameters on NOx reduction efficiency was performed on the same case. Finally, conclusions about validity of current framework are given together with recommendations for further work.
Using 100g/L skim milk as basal medium,the influence on forming acid and curding time of Lactobacillus acidophilus was studied by adding different kinds and content sugar,vitamine,amino acid and protein.The results showed that lactose0.5%, pantothenic0.08%, cyanic acid1% and hydrolyzed bean protein0.5% could give the obvious effects and made the curding time shorten from 18～24h to 4h and pH reached to 4.30～5.25. Therefore, these four nutrients were promoting fermentation factors of Lactobacillus acidophilus fermented milk.
Volatile emissions produced by the combustion of fossil fuels may be converted on a catalyst to less harmful products. During lean combustion an excess of oxygen in the exhaust gases together with a catalyst effectively oxidizes carbon monoxide and hydrocarbons into carbon dioxide and water. This leaves a deficit of reductants to reduce nitrogen oxides. In order to manage ::: the conversion of nitrogen oxides into nitrogen a commonly used technology is selective catalytic reduction (SCR). In the SCR system an extra reductant such as ammonia or hydrocarbons are added to complete the conversion of nitrogen oxides. During the last few years SCR-systems for mobile applications using urea as an onboard source of ammonia have been developed and commercialized. Commonly, a solution of urea and water (commercially known as AdBlue) is injected trough an atomizer upstream of the catalyst. However, several problems still exist with the urea-SCR system. During conversion of the urea into ammonia and isocyanic acid stable high molecular compounds that can accumulate within the exhaust gas system may form. The abundance of these by-products depend on the conditions under which the urea is injected. In order to optimize spraying conditions new models and more fundamental knowledge of the urea decomposition processes are needed. ::: ::: In this thesis flow reactor experiments using Differential Scanning Calorimetery (DSC), Fourier Transformed Infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR) and Mass Spectrometry (MS) have been undertaken to study the pyrolysis of urea. Results show that the conditions under which urea is pyrolyzed governs which by-products are formed. ::: ::: Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) has been used to simulate the injection and decomposition of AdBlue for a urea-SCR ::: application. New models for the decomposition and evaporation of urea have been developed and exhibit remarkable agreement with data found in the literature. The results from the CFD simulations were found to be sensitive to which sub models that were used.
The proximate composition of ( moisture content, total ash, crude fat, crude protein, fibre content and carbohydrate), the mineral contents (Na, K, P, Ca, Mg, Zn and Fe), and anti-nutrients (phytate, hydrocyanic acid, oxalate and tannins) were determined in Wild leaves of Gnetum africana and fresh domestic leaves of Gnetum africana (Afang). The percentage moisture content, total ash, crude fat, crude protein, fibre content and carbohydrate values (43.23 %, 62.12%, 43.17%, 15.02%, 12.36% and 20.17%) respectively of wild leaves of Gnetum africana were significantly (p<0.05) lower than values obtained from fresh domestic leaves of Gnetum africana (87.24%, 12.40%, 26.22%, 48.19%, 38.15% and 37.27%) respectively. The concentrations of mineral elements phosphorous, potassium, iron, zinc, sodium, calcium and magnesium of fresh domestic leaves of Gnetum africana were (2.13%, 1.72%, 4.45%, 2.14%, 1.45%, 2.05% and 2.29%) respectively. While the values obtained from wild leaves of Gnetum africana were (0.15%, 0.28%, 1.47%, 1.02%, 1.01%, 0.70% and 1.04%) respectively. The values of mineral elements were significantly higher (p<0.05) in fresh domestic leaves of Gnetum africana than wild leaves of Gnetum africana obtained from tropical forest in Cross River State and Cameroun. The values of hydrogen cyanide, phytate, oxalate and tannin in wild leaves of Gnetum africana were (3.55g/100g, 5.12g/100g, 7.23g/100 and 4.10g/100g) respectively. These
Food and beverages contain many toxic chemicals that raise health concerns. Ethyl carbamate (EC) or urethane is the ethyl ester of carbamic acid. It occurs at low level, from ng/L to mg/L, in many fermented foods and beverages. Ethyl carbamate is genotoxic and carcinogenic for a number of species such as mice, rats, hamsters and monkeys. It has been classified as a group 2A carcinogen, “probably carcinogenic to humans”, by the World Health Organization’s International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) in 2007. The benchmark dose lower limit of ethyl carbamate is 0.3 mg/kg bw per day and the mean intake of ethyl carbamate from food is approximately 15 ng/kg bw per day. Those levels were calculated for relevant foods including bread, fermented milk products and soy sauce. Alcoholic beverages were not included in this calculation. However, high levels of ethyl carbamate can be found in distillated spirits at concentrations ranging from 0.01 to 12 mg/L depending on to the origin of spirit. Alcoholic drinks should thus be considered as a source of ethyl carbamate. Ethyl carbamate is produced by several chemical mechanisms: first, from urea and various proteins like citrulline produced during the fermentation step and second from cyanide, and hydrocyanic acid, via ethyl carbamate precursors such as cyanate. A large panel of ethyl carbamate formation mechanisms is described from simple ethanolysis of urea in homogeneous liquid phase to photochemical oxidation of cyanide ion or complex heterogeneous gas/solid catalytic reactions. Determination of ethyl carbamate in foods and beverages involves various strategies according to the material, food or beverage, solid or liquid, and according to the concentration, from ng/L to mg/L. Usually, adapted extractive techniques and pre-concentration step are followed by analysis by gas chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry (GC–MS of GC–MS–MS). High performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and semi-quantitative spectroscopic methods (infra-red) are also proposed as valuable alternatives to the classical but time-consuming GC–MS. Various preventing methods are developed and used in some cases at industrial scale to lower ethyl carbamate levels in food. Two types of preventing methods are described. First, adapted and optimised practices in all step of the chain of foods’ (or beverages) production lead in general to low ethyl carbamate level. Second, the abatement of ethyl carbamate precursors can be done by adapted enzymatic, physical chemical or chemical methods according to the natures of raw materials and conditions of their production processes.
For ensuring the operation of the mechanisms at high temperatures and pressures, it is necessary to use both stable base oils and effective additives in the composition of the lubricants. In the research, antioxidative and anticorrosive properties were identified in the oils of the condensation products of the alkylphenols with paraformaldehyde and thiocyanic acid polymer. The condensation products of the 5­amino­1,2,4­dithiazole­3­thione (Xanthane Hydride) with the 2,6­di­tert­Butylphenol and paraformaldehyde were investigated. A mixture of the products was obtained in the solution of the glacial acetic acid where the ratio of the 5­amino­1,2,4­dithiazole­3­thione and 2,6­di­tert­Butylphenol fragments is 1:1 and 1:3, respectively. An assumption about the structure of the substances was set up on the basis of the chemical and spectral data. For the compound with the empirical formula C 19 H 27 N 2 O (3 –5) S 3 the structure containing a residue of the 2,6­di­tert­Butylphenol and one heterocyclic fragment was proposed. For the compound with the empirical formula C 43 H 65 N 2 O (3 –5) S 3 the structure containing three residues of the 2,6­di­tert­Butylphenol was proposed. It was found that the products with a high content of the 2,6­di­tert­Butyphenol residues dissolve in the oils best of all. It was also found that alkylphenol derivatives of the thiocyanic acid and Xanthane Hydride are promising inhibitors of the corrosion and oxidation of the fuels and lubricants. The technique of the 5­amino­1,2,4­dithiazole­3­thione synthesis was improved. It was determined that it is better to synthesize it by treating an aqueous solution of the ammonium thiocyanate with the concentrated hydrochloric acid (instead of the sulfuric acid) in equimolar proportions at the temperature of 5–15 C. At the same time, the output of the aim product does not decrease and it can be easier purified.
Protein citrullination is emerging as an important signaling mechanism that modulates a variety of biological processes. This protein modification constitutes only a 1 Da mass shift, and can be readily confused with other common protein modifications that yield an identical mass shift. In an attempt to develop a robust methodology for detection of protein citrullination sites, we analyzed synthetic citrulline-containing peptides by electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry. Collision-induced dissociation (CID) spectra revealed abundant neutral loss of 43 Da from citrullinated peptide precursor ions, which was reconciled by elimination of the HNCO moiety (isocyanic acid) from the citrulline ureido group. The elimination occurs readily in multiple charge states of precursor ions and also in b and y ions. HNCO loss in CID spectra provides a novel diagnostic marker for citrullination, and its utility was demonstrated by the discovery of Arg197 as the specific site of citrullination on nucleophosmin upon peptidylarginine deiminase 4 treatment.
The present invention relates to a process for producing a carboxylic acid amide from a carbonyl compound and hydrocyanic acid, comprising the steps of A) reacting a carbonyl compound with hydrogen cyanide for the production of a Hydroxycarbonsaurenitrils, B) hydrolyzing the product obtained in step A) Hydroxycarbonsaurenitrils in the presence of a catalyst comprising manganese dioxide, wherein a molar excess of carbonyl compound in reference is used in the hydrogen cyanide to reaction of the carbonyl compound with hydrogen cyanide in accordance with step A) and the reaction mixture obtained in step A) not by distillation is purified before the hydrolysis according to step B) is performed. Furthermore, the present invention relates to a process for preparing alkyl (meth) acrylates, polymers, molding compounds and moldings, wherein a process for preparing a carboxylic acid from a carbonyl compound and hydrocyanic acid according to the method described above is performed.
Molecular beam mass spectrometry has been used for an in situ study of the Pt-catalyzed formation of hydrocyanic acid from methane and ammonia. The goal was to identify transient gas phase intermediates which would indicate homogeneous contributions to the reaction mechanism. A catalytic wall reactor operated at 1300 °C, 1013 mbar, and 74% HCN yield was connected via a molecular beam interface with a quadrupole mass spectrometer, which allowed the measurement of ionization- and appearance potentials by electron impact. Shape and width of the electron energy spread function were determined by analyzing the ionization efficiency curve of helium; the experimental uncertainty of the measured threshold values was found to be 0.6 eV. By use of the threshold ionization technique it could be shown that methylamine (CH3NH2) and methylenimine (CH2NH) are present in the gas phase under reaction conditions. The measured threshold potentials at m/z ::: = 30 u (9.9 ± 0.6 eV) and m/z ::: = 29 u (10.6 ± 0.6 eV) were unambiguously assigned to the appearance potential of CNH4+/CH3NH2 and the ionization potential of CNH3+/CH2NH, respectively. Both molecules dehydrogenate rapidly at reaction temperature to HCN so that they can be considered as true gas phase intermediates.
Double and triple ionisation spectra of the reactive molecule isocyanic acid (Hnco) have been measured using multi-electron and ion coincidence techniques combined with synchrotron radiation and compared with high-level theoretical calculations. Vertical double ionisation at an energy of 32.8 ± 0.3 eV forms the 3 A" ground state in which the Hnco 2+ ion is long lived. the vertical triple ionisation energy is determined as 65 ± 1 eV. The core-valence double ionisation spectra resemble the valence photoelectron spectrum in form, and their main features can be understood on the basis of a simple and rather widely applicable coulomb model based on the characteristics of the molecular orbitals from which electrons are removed. characteristics of the most important dissociation channels are examined and discussed.
Because of the importance of isocyanic acid, HNCO, in terrestrial environments 1-3 and the interstellar medium 4 , spectra of this molecule and its singly charged ion HNCO + have been widely studied both experimentally and theoretically. A rather complete listing of the earlier spectroscopic work is given in a recent paper by Holzmeier et al. 5 on its normal and resonant Auger spectra. The electronic and geometric structure of neutral HNCO and of its three most stable isomers have been calculated 6,7 , as has the structure of the singly positive ion 8, 9 . The dynamics of fragmentation of its positive ions, both singly and doubly charged, were studied ∼30 years ago by mass-spectrometric methods 10,11 and more recently by coincidence methods 8, 12 . The states of the singly charged ions, seen in the photoelectron spectrum, could be correlated to the dissociation pathways 8 , but this was not possible for the doubly charged ions 12 as no spectroscopic information on them existed at that time. We now report spectra of the double and triple ionisation of HNCO by single photon impact, obtained using a multi-electron coincidence technique combined with synchrotron radiation in the soft X-ray region.
triazin-4(6H)-one. The samples were characterized by the TG-DSC and TG-FTIR analyses. The studied compounds are stable at room temperature which is important for medical application. The TG analysis under dynamic air atmosphere revealed that thermal degradation of the compounds starts above 300°C and proceeds in two steps. The melting processes of compounds are observed before starting their decomposition or at the beginning of their combustion. Pyrolysis processes under nitrogen atmosphere take place in single or two steps. The major pyrolysis gaseous products identified are ammonia, carbon dioxide, isocyanic acid and its derivatives, hydrogen cyanide, aniline or its derivatives and carbon monoxide.
Cyanide is a chemical compound containing cyano (─C≡N) groups [1] . There are sources of cyanide, such as fungi, bacteria, and plants [2] and its extensively found in the wastes of the refinery, coke plant, and metal plating industries [3] . Some inorganic cyanide compounds such as sodium cyanide (NaCN) and potassium cyanide (KCN) are groups of compounds having negatively charged polyatomic cyanide ions (CN -). This compound is a salt of a highly toxic hydrocyanic acid. Cyanide can form complexes with cadmium, copper, nickel, silver, zinc and some other metals. The cyanide complex when dissolved will produce HCN in little or no amount at all depending on the stability of the complex. The stability of the cyanide complex varies, it depends on the central metal. Weak complexes such as the cyanide complex with zinc and cadmium will easily break down into free cyanide. The complex is like a cyanide complex with copper, nickel, and silver will be more difficult to unravel than a weak complex. Whereas powerful complexes such as cyanide complexes with gold, iron, and cobalt tend to be difficult to break down to produce free cyanide. Cyanide is most harmful substances on humans, Earth, and most aquatic life even at low concentrations [4] . Therefore, analysis of cyanide content in foods and beverages needs to be controlled. The methods used for cyanide analysis before are distillation, chromatography or Potentiometry [5] , titrimetric [6] , electrochemical [7, 8] , voltammetric [9] and fluorometric [10, 11, 12] , while in this research was studied the optimum condition of the complex ([Ni(CN)4)] 
Carbamylation is a posttranslational modification of proteins resulting from the nonenzymatic reaction between isocyanic acid and specific free functional groups. This reaction alters protein structural and functional properties and thus contributes to molecular ageing. Many studies have shown the involvement of carbamylated proteins in diseases, especially in chronic renal failure and atherosclerosis.
1981. Studies of cattle and sheep eating leaf and stem fractions of grasses. 1. The voluntary intake, digestibility and retention time in the reticulo-rumen Aust. J. Agr. Res. 32:99-108. Rauzi, F., L.I. Painter, and A.K. Dobrenz. 1969. Mineral and protein contents of bluegrama and western wheatgrass. J. Range Manage. 22:47-49. Sandel, E.B. 1950. Colorimetric determination of trace metals. p. 411 Interscience Pub. Inc., New York. SAS Procedures Guide. Statistical Analysis System. 1985. Abstract Hydrocyanic acid or prussic acid poisoning of livestock by sorghums [Sorghum bicolor (L.)Moenchl and sudangrasses [Sorghum sudanese (Piper) StapfJ is caused by the digestive liberation of hydrocyanic acid (HCN) from the cyanogenic compound, dhurrin [(S)-p-hydroxymandelonitrile ,8-D-glucopyranosideI found in tissue of these plants. Recent research documented that dhurrin is also present in indiangrass [Sorghastrum nutans (L.) Nash] seedlings. The purpose of this study was to determine the hydrocyanic acid potential (HCN-p) of forage from established stands of indiangrass. Five cultivars representative of indiangrass germplasm of the Great Plains were sampled during the growing season for 2 years from 2 sites in eastern Nebraska. The HCN-p of the indiangrass sampled in this study exceeded 750 mg-1 kg dry wt. (dangerous level) only in spring when new growth was 20 cm tall or less. Levels were less than 500 mg-1 kg (safe) when new growth was at least 40 cm tall and were very low (<200 mg-1 kg) or not detected when the forage was over 1 m tall. Pure stands of indiangrass that are grazed when the new growth is less than 20 cm tall could be lethal to livestock. Key Words: prussic acid, HCN, dhurrin, poisonous plants, Sorghastrum nutans Dhurrin [(S)-p-hydroxymandelonitrile ,B-D-glucopyranoside] was the first cyanogenic compound isolated from a Gramineae (Tjon Sie Fat 1977). It was isolated from sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] plants in 1902 by Dunstan and Henry (1902). When hydrolyzed, dhurrin yields hydrocyanic acid (HCN), glucose, and p-hydroxybenzaldehyde (p-HB) in equimolar amounts. In young sorghum leaves, dhurrin is localized in vacuoles of epidermal cells while the enzymes responsible for the release of HCN from dhurrin are located in mesophyll cells (Kojima et al. 1979). This separation of enzyme and substrate probably accounts for the fact that in healthy, intact leaf tissue little, if any, free cyanide is present. Authors are supervisory research geneticist, USDA-ARS; George Holmes professor of agronomy,
β-Styryl isocyanate (1, R H) and its β-methyl- (1, R CH3) and β-phenyl- (1, R C6H5) derivatives underwent both extensive polymerization and the loss of the elements of carbon monoxide upon irradiation at 254 nm in cyclohexane. The formation of 2,5-diphenylpyrazine (3) and indole 4, (R H) from 1, (R - H) and 2,3-dimethyl-5,6-diphenylpyrazine (6) and 2-methylindole (4, R CH3) from 1, (R CH3) provided diagnostic evidence for styryl nitrene (2a) intermediates. The formation of both phenylacetonitrile (5, R H) and α-phenylpropio-nitrile (5, R CH3) was assigned to an initial rearrangement of the residue, C8H6(R)N: (2), into a ketenimine concerted with the elimination of carbon monoxide from 1. Isomerization then produced a nitrile. β3-(β-phenyl)styryl isocyanate (1, R C6H5) gave no product requiring the intermediacy of a nitrene and/or an azirine. The formation of 2,3,4,5-tetraphenylpyrrole (8) was assigned to a dimerization of the isocyanate concerted with or following the elimination of the elements of carbon monoxide and isocyanic acid, and the formation of 3-phenylisocarbo-styril (9) was assigned to a ring-closure of the isocyanate in an excited triplet state. Each isocyanate gave stilbene and trace amounts of oxidative fragmentation into benzaldehyde and benzonitrile. Solvent participation produced benzylcyclohexane and bicyclohexyl. Two unidentified solids, C17H14N2O and C12H14N2O, were obtained from 1, (R CH3).
A method for quantitative determination of ethylene oxide adducts is described. By precipitation in hydrochloric acid solution with a known quantity of ferrocyanic acid, filtration, and titration with zinc sulfate, the consumption of ferrocyanic acid can be determined. From the results a m.d. of less than 8% was calculated, the corresponding figure for adducts containing more than 9 ethylene oxide units does not surpass 5%. The reaction takes place on the ethylene oxide chain in the compound. To precipitate an adduct containing 6 units ethylene oxide approximately one mole of ferrocyanic acid is necessary.
Identification and monitoring of gaseous species released during ::: thermal decomposition of title compound 1, Sn-2(tu)(5)Cl(4)(.)2H(2)O ::: (tu stands for thiourea (NH2)(2)C=S)) in flowing air atmosphere have ::: been carried out up to 600 degreesC by both online coupled TG-EGA-FTIR ::: and simultaneous TG/DTA-EGA-MS apparatuses. The first gaseous products ::: of the dehydrated 1, evolved around 190 degreesC, are carbonyl sulphide ::: (COS), carbon disulfide (CS2), and cyanamide (NH2CN). At 240 degreesC ::: isothiocyanic acid, HNCS becomes the main product, accompanied by CS2, ::: ammonia (NH3) a small amount of hydrogen cyanide (HCN) and traces of ::: hydrogen chloride (HCI), according to EGA-FTIR spectroscopic analysis. ::: At 250 degreesC formation of sulphur dioxide (SO2) has been observed by ::: EGA-mass spectrometry. SO2 as air oxidation product of tin sulphides, ::: formed in the previous stages, occurs also around 430 degreesC, while ::: gaseous oxidation products of the organic residues, such as CO2 and ::: NH2CN are released at 515 degreesC. Both oxidation processes are ::: accompanied by an exothermic heat effect. All species identified by ::: FTIR gas cell are also confirmed by mass spectrometry, except HNCS. (C) ::: 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Abstract Mossbauer spectra of the addition complexes of hydro ferro- and ferri-cyanides with organic bases, viz. diethylene triamine, 1,2 diaminopropane, hexane-1,6 diamine, 4,4′-tetra methyldiaminodiphenylmethane, piperazine and triethylamine have been recorded at room temperature. It is concluded that in the case of hydroferrocyanide there is simple addition of the base through hydrogen bonding while in the case of hydroferricyanide the reaction of organic base with ferricyanic acid is first accompanied by reduction of ferricyanic acid to ferrocyanic acid, which is then followed by the addition of the organic base to the reduced acid. The values of the isomer shift and quadrupole splitting are discussed in terms of the possible symmetry around the iron.
The present invention, production of hydrocyanic acid by catalytic dehydration methods and gaseous formamide producing hydrocyanic acid by catalytic dehydration of gaseous formamide at least one major reactor and post-connected rear reactor the use of rear reactor in the method of.
I. INTRODUCTION As is well known, the urinary sulphur is made up of the sulphates, both inorganic and ethereal, and certain less highly oxidized compounds, which are called, following Salkowski's 1 suggestion, "neutral sulphur." The neutral sulphur compounds are many and include the following: uroferric acid, 2 uroproteic acid, 3 oxyproteic acid, 4 urochrome, 5 thiocyanic acid and its salts, 6 cystin and similar substances, 7 taurin and taurincarbamic acid, 1 methyl mercaptan, 8 ethyl sulphid, 9 thiosulphuric acid 10 and sulphurous acid. 11 Many of the above mentioned substances contain nitrogen in a form which would be included under the term colloidal nitrogen, and on that account one would expect in those cases in which the urine contains an increased amount of colloidal nitrogen, there would also be an increase in the neutral sulphur of the urine. It has been known for some time that the colloidal nitrogen
Cyanogenic glycosides occur in a wide range of plant species. The potential toxicity of cyanogenic glycosides arises from enzymatic degradation to produce hydrogen cyanide, which may result in acute cyanide poisoning and has also been implicated in the aetiology of several chronic diseases. One hundred retail foods were sampled and analysed for the presence of total hydrocyanic acid using an acid hydrolysis-isonicotinic/barbituric acid colourimetric method. Food samples included cassava, bamboo shoots, almonds and almond products, pome fruit products, flaxseed/linseed, stone fruit products, lima beans, and various seeds and miscellaneous products, including taro leaves, passion fruit, spinach and canned stuffed vine leaves. The concentrations of total hydrocyanic acid (the hydrocyanic acid equivalents of all cyanogenic compounds) found were consistent with or lower than concentrations reported in the scientific literature. Linseed/flaxseed contained the highest concentrations of total hydrocyanic acid of any of the analysed foods (91-178 mg kg(-1)). Linseed-containing breads were found to contain total hydrocyanic acid at concentrations expected from their linseed content, indicating little impact of processing on the total hydrocyanic acid content. Simulation modelling was used to assess the risk due to the total hydrocyanic acid in fruit juice and linseed-containing bread.
Hydrocyanic acid gas derived from Cyanogas calcium cyanide has proven an effective and economical fumigant for houseflies at Clemson College, S. C., during the past season, especially in large rooms such as dairy barns, stores, shops, laboratories and under certain conditions in homes. The calcium cyanide was usually applied as a dust cloud thrown vigorously and horizontally from a cupped stiff paper held in the hand. In homes, feed rooms for animals and in other rooms where a dust cloud could not be used or where it was not advisable to have the dust fall to the floor, the calcium cyanide was applied as a thin film on papers placed in several parts of the room. The normal dosage used in commercial control ranged around ½ ounce per 1000 cubic feet, being slightly less in large rooms with very little leakage and more as the leakage increased, the increase being greatest in the smaller rooms. Night fumigations were more convenient and were usually more effective. The evolution of the gas from the dust clouds was slow enough to allow sufficient time for a thorough application, and the concentration of hydrocyanic acid gas necessary for a lethal dosage for flies is low enough to allow a considerable margin of safety for the operator.
Two cyanate ester resins and a polycarbonate thermoplastic have been synthesized from vanillin. The bisphenol precursors were prepared by both an electrochemical route as well as by a McMurry coupling reaction. 1,2-Bis(4-cyanato-3-methoxyphenyl)ethene (6) had a high melting point of 237 °C and did not cure completely under a standard cure protocol. In contrast, the reduced version, 1,2-bis(4-cyanato-3-methoxyphenyl)ethane (7) melted at 190 °C and underwent complete cure to form a thermoset material with Tg = 202 °C. 7 showed thermal stability up to 335 °C and decomposed via formation of phenolics and isocyanic acid. A polycarbonate was then synthesized from the reduced bisphenol by a transesterification reaction with diphenylcarbonate. The polymer had Mn = 3588, Mw/Mn = 1.9, and a Tg of 86 °C. TGA/FTIR data suggested that the polycarbonate decomposed via formation of benzodioxolones with concomitant elimination of methane. The results show that vanillin is a useful precursor to both thermosetting resins and thermoplastics without significant modification.
Infrared chemiluminescence is observed from the C–H stretch manifold ν3 of HCN formed in the gas phase ion–molecule reactions: CN−+HX→HCN(v3)+X−, with (X = Cl, Br, I), and for CN−+H→HCN(v3)+e−. Qualitative information is also obtained for excitation in the bending mode. In each case some excitation is observed in the highest level allowed by energy conservation. Comparison with similar studies of the reactions Cl−+HX shows that the stretching mode of the newly formed bond is less efficiently populated in the HCN case. Emission is observed from CNH (hydroisocyanic acid) formed in the reaction CN−+HI→CNH(v)+I−.
Abstract Using Primene JMT or TOA, the extraction of thiocyanic acid and of Ag(I) thiocyanato-complex from aqueous thiocyanate solution was studied. On extraction of thiocyanic acid using aqueous phase containing 1.0 M NH4SCN and an organic phase containing 100–300 kg m−3 Primene JMT or TOA, (RNH3+·SCN−)o and (R3NH+·SCN−)o were formed with apparent equilibrium constants, log Kex,a, of 8.7 and 6.5, respectively. The extraction of 1×10−3 M Ag(I) from aqueous ammonium thiocyanate solutions by the thiocyanate salts of Primene JMT or TOA at concentrations ranging from 100 to 300 kg·m−3, and in the presence of ammonium thiocyanate at concentrations of 0.5–3.0 M can be summarized as follows: 2( RNH 3 + · SCN − ) o + Ag ( SCN ) 3 2− = K ex,3 (( RNH 3 + ) 2 · Ag ( SCN ) 3 2− ) o +2 SCN − , logK ex,3 =1.6 2( R 3 NH + · SCN − ) o + Ag ( SCN ) 3 2− = K ex,3 (( R 3 NH + ) 2 · Ag ( SCN ) 3 2− ) o +2 SCN − , logK ex,3 =2.5.
Adults of Tribolium confusum Jacquelin duVal and Sitophilus granarius (L.) were fumigated with chloropicrin, hydrocyanic acid, ethylene dibromide, ethylene dichloride, ethylene oxide, and methyl bromide. Both the fumigant concentration and carbon dioxide production were determined during the exposure period by gas chroniatography. The fumigants had a depressing effect on respiration as measured by carbon dioxide production during the fumigation exposure period. ::: ::: The effect of age on respiration and fumigant kill with methyl bromide on adults of T. confusum and T. castaneum (Herbst) also was determined. The data presented for young adults of both T. confusum and T. castaneum indicate that changes in susceptibility to methyl bromide fumigation do not necessarily correspond to changes in carbon dioxide production.
The use of botanical pesticides in pest management during storage against insects is often encouraged because synthetic insecticides produce undesired effects. Bark powder of Drypetes gossweileri is used by farmers in pest management in Central Africa Republic. Hexane, dichloromethane, ethyl acetate and methanol were used for extraction bark powder by maceration. Insecticidal activity of the extracts was tested on Sitophilus zeamais, Tribolium castaneum and Rhyzopertha dominica. The mortality rate, the number of surviving insects and the number of emerged insects were measured variables. Calculated mortality was obtained by applying Aboth's formula. The variables are submitted to variance analysis, model with four factors (plants, insects, doses and time) in Minitab 14. The results of analysis showed that the mortality rate has a very highly significant variation following extracts, doses, insects and time considered (P < 0.001). Extracts with ethyl acetate and dichloromethane of D. gossweileri are effective against S. zeamais and R. dominica at high doses (1, 0.5, 0.250 g/10 mL of solvent). These effective extracts were characterized by gas chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry. Molecules such as 1-isothiocyanatomethyl, thiocyanic acid, phenylmethyl ester and other were characterizated. These results may consolidate traditional use of D. gossweileri in pest management.
All Sorghum species are believed to have the potential of producing hydrocyanic acid, and thus, the common usage of Sorghum as a forage results in the threat of poisoning to cattle. Since the determination of hydrocyanic acid potential (HCN-p) is laborious, we sought to ascertain whether it is possible to predict HCN-p from other more easily measured plant characteristics. ::: ::: The relationships of HCN-p to various morphological plant characteristics and dry matter percentage of six sorghum types were studied in 1970 and 1971. Significant differences among the cultivars were found both years for all the plant characteristics—height, diameter of culm, length of stem, number of leaves, width and length of third leaf, dry matter percentage, and HCN-p. Most of the correlation coefficients between HCN-p and the morphological characteristics of the cultivars were not significant. Correlation coefficients between HCN-p and dry matter percentage were all negative, and most were highly significant. It was not possible to predict HCN-p from measurements of the morphological characters. Although dry matter percentages were influenced by genotype and stage of development, relative differences in dry matter percentages were indicative of relative differences in HCN-p
The oxalate, hydrocyanic acid, phytic acid and phosphorus contents of twelve leafy vegetables were determined. The values ranged from 47.7–194.3 mg/100 g DM, 4.32–23.8 mg/100 g DM, 90–260 mg/100 g DM and 215–1110 mg/100 g DM, respectively. The ratio of phytic acid to phosphorus ranged from 13.9–90.7. The leaves contained low levels of hydrocyanic acid, while the oxalate, phytic acid and phosphorus contents were high. The results are discussed in terms of their clinical implications and nutritive values.
Reactions of phenylhydrazinium thiocyanate with various ketones and aldehydes gave 1-phenyl-3-alkyl-5-mercapto-Δ4-1,2,4-triazoline compounds in 80–90% yield by the cycloaddition of thiocyanic acid to the phenyl-hydrazones intermediately formed from phenylhydrazine and the ketones or aldehydes. Their structure were determined by elemental analyses, spectral data (IR, NMR, and MS) and chemical reactions. Many 2-phenyl-thiosemicarbazone and 1-phenyl-1,2,4-triazole derivatives were synthesized in good yields.
Abstract The rate of reaction between alpha-amino groups and cyanic acid was followed at 26 degrees and ionic strength 0.2 M as a function of pH of human hemoglobin Ao solutions to determine the pK and the pH-independent second order rate constant, kappa, for these groups in the alpha and beta chains. At a given point in time, the extent of the reaction was determined by employing the Beckmann Sequencer as a quantitative tool in which the yields of leucine and histidine in the second Edman degradation cycle were used to define the rates of reaction of the alpha and beta chains, respectively. From these results, the individual were evaluated (Garner, M.H., Garner, W.H., and Gurd, F. R.N. (1973) J. Biol. Chem. 248, 5451-5455). Values for pK for the alpha and beta chains were, respectively, 6.74 and 6.93 for cyanoferrihemoglobin, 6.95 and 7.05 for carboxyhemoglobin, and 7.79 and 6.84 for deoxyhemoglobin. Values for kappa, M- minus 1 S-minus 1, for the alpha and beta chains were, respectively, 12.5 and 17 for cyanoferrihemoglobin, 12 and 18 for carboxyhemoglobin, and 91 and 24 for deoxyhemoglobin. Limits of significance were estimated for both variables in each case. The pK results for valine 1alpha agree well with the value obtained by Hill and Davis (1967) J. Biol. Chem. 242, 2005-2012) for carboxyhemoglobin and with that of Kilmartin and Rossi-Bernardi ((1971) Biochem. J. 124, 31-45) for deoxyhemoglobin. Values obtained for sperm whale myoglobin were 7.77 for pK and 7.4 for kappa. The results are useful for the interpretation of the allosteric interactions of hemoglobin with hydrogen ions, with CO2, and with phosphate.
Ab initio and density functional calculations are used to analyze the interaction between a molecule of isocyanic acid (HNCO) with 1, 2, 3, and 4 molecules of water at B3LYP/6-311++G(d,p) and MP2/6-311++G(d,p) computational levels. Cooperative effect (CE) in terms of stabilization energy of clusters are calculated and discussed as well. Comparisons are made with results from recent theoretical studies of the H-bond clusters of water with isotopomer HCNO (fulminic acid). Atom in molecules (AIM) is used to analysis cooperative effect on topological parameters.
A characterization of the contents of some protease inhibitors, hydrocyanic acid and partial chemical composition of three wheat cultivars, Red, White and Spotted of Zaragoza bean (Phaseolus lunatus L.) from the municipality of Turbaco, Bolivar was realized. Also it was estimated the protein digestibility “in vitro”. The results showed some significant differences in protein content, crude fiber and ash. There was no evidence the presence of trypsin inhibitors. In vitro
This work should be of high interest to chemists and biologists who follow experimental results in prebiotic chemistry in general, and the abiotic formation of nucleosides, nucleotides and ultimately nucleic acids in particular, which is a very hot topic at the front of opinion making in the origin of life field. The author's major claims are that, both, pyrimidine nucleosides and nucleotides and purine nucleosides and nucleotides can be formed concomitantly without excluding one another, under plausibly prebiotic conditions, i.e. solubilized in ambient water at pH values between 2 and 11 (usually 6, some reactions up to pH 13) or hot formamide. Many of the reactions are based on known literature data that almost all have been correctly cited, such as the use of thiocyanic acid (9), 2-aminomalononitrile (2b), 2-amino-2-cyanoacetamide (2c), carbohydrate-derived 1,3-oxazolidine-2-thiones (1a, 1cand 1d) and the nucleophilic attack by anthranilic acid (14). The key steps, however, result from the author's stubbornly systematic testing of slightly modified aqueous reaction conditions that presumably have been actually discovered by the chemists among the authors. Examples: the slightly acidic conditions for an efficient nucleophilic attack of ammonia on thiones rather than basic conditions on S-methyl or S-benzyl thiones, the ring closure of the above thiones using 2-aminomalononitrile or 2-amino-2-cyanoacetamide but not glycine nitrile to give imidazole anhydronucleosides, or the ring closure on the latter using formamidine to give 2'-anhydro-8-oxypurine nucleosides. The impact of this work will be very strong.
any incompatibility, the more so, since some of the used compounds are the same in several studies. Especially 2b and 2c were never before tested for triaminopyrimidine and oxazolidine formation in one pot. What would happen if cyanamide (6) and/or thiocyanic acid (9) were mixed with glycolaldehyde (5), 2-aminomalononitrile (2b) and/or 2-amino-2-cyanoacetamide (2c)? Nobody knows yet, or am I wrong? Maybe I am missing something but, if so, then please explain more precisely this incompatibility. Or else, re-phraze please (in the abstract and the main text). There is no need to justify the own work by some virtual, unproven lack of the works of others. In other words, even if other propositions are mutually compatible, there still would be a scientific need to show that your proposition is mutually compatible as well.
Anti-nutrients are chemical substances in food that do not offer nourishment to the body. e.g. phytic acid, oxalates, tannins and hydrocyanic acid. The effect of these antinutrients in the body depends on the type and the concentration in which it is present in the food material [1] [2] [3] .
Cyanides are a group of O-glycosides formed from decarboxylated amino acids. Cyanides can inhibit cellular oxidation by combining with the catalytic ion of cytochrome oxidase leading to elimination of the active unit concerned with transfer of electrons to molecular oxygen 15 . Hydrocyanic acid has also been found to inhibit the activity of vitamin K dependent carboxylase of the liver 4 . In addition, Aremu 5 estimated that the per capita daily intake of hydrocyanate in Nigeria was 8mg, almost 90% of which is from garri alone.
The objective of this study was to analyze samples of bread and flour samples sold in Uyo metropolis to determine their anti-nutritional composition and potassium bromate content. The anti-nutritional content determined in mg/100g dry weight basis for tannins hydrocyanic acid, phytates and oxalates in bread and flour was within acceptable range. The potassium bromate levels in the bread samples in mg/100g was found to be 0.108, 0.378, 0.270 and 0.135 and for the flour samples also in mg/100g, 0.216, 0.108, 0.108 and 0.054. The levels of hydrocyanic acid and oxalate in the bread and flour samples were well below the lethal dose. As expected in cereals, the phytic acid levels in the bread and flour samples were quite high. The tannin content was also high. The concentrations of phytic acid and tannins in the bread and flour were however not alarming when compared with their concentrations in other food stuffs as reported by Chakraborty and Eka (1978) . The potassium bromate content were all within the safe limits of residual bromide found in flour as specified by the US Food and Drug Administration from where NAFDAC also derives her specifications.
Qualitative information is also obtained for excitation in the bending mode. In each case some excitation is observed in the highest level allowed by energy conservation. Comparison with similar studies of the reactions CI'+ HX shows that the stecigmode of the nwyformed bond is less efcntypuledin the HCN case. Emission is observed from CNH (hydroisocyanic acid) formed in the reaction CN-+ HI-CNH(v) + .
Herein, porous photoactive nanocomposites are prepared by a simple one-pot synthesis approach using a salt and aqueous media. Within this reactive hypersaline route, the salt not only serves in the structuring of the composite but also becomes an integral active part of it. Here, the addition of sodium thiocyanate to a titania precursor guides, on the one hand, the formation of needle-shaped nanoparticles and, on the other hand, forms yellow compound isoperthiocyanic acid, which is homogeneously incorporated into the porous nanocomposite. Compared to a pure titania reference, this material reveals a 7-fold-increased photodegradation rate of Rhodamine B as a model compound. This reveals the reactive hypersaline route to be a promising and facile synthesis route toward photoactive porous materials.
Abstract Ab initio calculations with full electron correlation by the perturbation method to second order and hybrid density functional theory calculations by the B3LYP method utilizing the 6-31G(d), 6-311+G(d,p), and 6-311+G(2d,2p) basis sets have been carried out for the XNCS and XSCN (X=H, F, Cl, Br) molecules. From these calculations, force constants, vibrational frequencies, infrared intensities, Raman activities, depolarization ratios, and structural parameters have been determined and compared to the experimental quantities when available. By combining previously reported rotational constants for HNCS, ClSCN and BrSCN with the ab initio MP2/6-311+G(d,p) predicted parameters, adjusted r 0 parameters have been obtained. The structural parameters for isothiocyanic acid are: r (H–N)=0.996(5) A; r (N C)=1.208(3) A; r (C=S)=1.568(3) A; ∠HNC=132.0(5)°; ∠NCS=172.9(5)°. These reported angles have much lower uncertainties than those previously reported from the microwave data alone. The ab initio predicted barrier to molecular linearity of HNCS is 917±44 cm −1 which is in excellent agreement with the experimental value of 900±200 cm −1 . The r 0 parameters for ClSCN are: r (Cl–S)=2.023(5); r (S–C)=1.694(3); r (C N)=1.156(3) A; ∠ClSC=99.6(5) and ∠SCN=174.4(5)° and for BrSCN are: r (Br–S)=2.197(5); r (S–C)=1.681(3); r (C N)=1.158(3) A; ∠BrSC=99.5(5) and ∠SCN=174.7(5)°. Structural parameters are also estimated for HSCN and FSCN. The predicted frequencies for the fundamentals of HNCS and DNCS compare favorably to the experimental values but several of their predicted intensities differ significantly from the observed spectra. The frequencies for the reported bending modes of ClSCN and BrSCN do not agree with the predicted values and further experimental studies are needed for providing confident assignments for these fundamentals.
Abstract Endosperm transplants were used to aid the in vitro culture of young Lotus embryos. Three tetraploid hybrids of 4x L. pedunculatus × 4x L. tenuis were obtained. Three tetraploid hybrids of 4x L. tenuis × L. corniculatus were grown from full-term embryos on a simple medium. Hybridity for all tetraploids was confirmed by morphological studies and, where appropriate, by the presence of hydrocyanic acid, flavanol polymers (“tannins”), and patterns of phosphatase and peroxidase isozymes.
Bis(hydrazinium)tetra(thiocyanato-N)cobalt-(II) and-nickel(II) dihydrates, (N2H5)2M(NCS)4·2H2O (M = Co or Ni) have been prepared by the reaction of the corresponding N2H5M(N2H3CO2)3·H2O with thiocyanic acid. The structure of the cobalt complex has been determined by single-crystal X-ray diffraction studies. The cobalt ion is six-co-ordinated with an octahedral geometry generated by two hydrazinium cations and four N-bonded thiocyanate ligands. Of significance is the presence of both linear and angular Co–NCS linkages (in the same molecule) and the N2H5+ ions in cis positions. The nickel complex is isostructural with the cobalt complex.
Crystalline ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase (3-phospho-D-glycerate carboxy-lyase (dimerizing), EC 4.1.1.39) isolated from tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.) leaf homogenates is irreversibly inactivated by incubation with potassium cyanate at pH 7.4. The rate of inactivation is pseudo first-order and linearly dependent on reagent concentration. In the presence of ribulosebisphosphate or high levels of CO2 and Mg2+ the rate constant for inactivation is reduced, suggesting that chemical modification occurs in the active site region of the enzyme. In contrast, neither the effector NADPH nor the activator Mg2+ alone significantly affect the rate of inactivation by cyanate; however, NADPH markedly enhances the protective effect of CO2 and Mg2+. Incubation of the carboxylase with potassium [14C] cyanate in the absence or presence of ribulosebisphosphate revealed that the substrate specifically reduces cyanate incorporation into the large catalytic subunits of the enzyme. Analysis of acid hydrolysates of the radioactive carboxylase indicated that the reagent carbamylates both NH2-terminal groups and lysyl residues in the large and small subunits. Comparison of the substrate-protected enzyme with the inactivated carboxylase revealed that ribulosebisphosphate preferentially reduces lysyl modification within the large subunit. The data here presented indicate that inactivation of ribulosebisphosphate carboxylase by cyanate or its reactive tautomer, isocyanic acid, results from the modification of lysyl residues within the catalytic subunit, presumably at the activator and substrate CO2 binding sites on the enzyme.
Ammonia production from cyanate was measured as a function of pH. ::: ::: ::: ::: The kinetic description of the process included acid-catalyzed hydrolysis of isocyanic acid and spontaneous hydrolysis of isocyanic acid and cyanate. These reactions were predominant at pH values below 2, between 3 and 8, and above 9, respectively. ::: ::: ::: ::: The hydrolysis was strongly catalyzed by certain bivalent anions. The geometry of the anion appeared to be an important factor in the catalytic process, since carbonate, phosphate, succinate, maleate, citrate and phthalate were catalysts, whereas other bivalent anions, viz. sulfate, oxalate, fumarate and isophthalate, were without effect. Catalysis by bivalent anions was supposed to proceed via carbamoyl derivatives of the anions. The negatively charged group of the carbamoyl derivative was thought to cause an intramolecular general base-catalyzed reaction. ::: ::: ::: ::: The implications of this study for the mechanism of urease action were considered.
This study aims to explore the corrosion behavior of bitter almond oil (BAO) during processing. Hydrocyanic acid (HCN) and benzoic acid in oil are speculated as the main components that corrode the screw oil expeller. Immersion and simulation corrosion tests are carried out to verify this hypothesis. Immersion test results show that crude BAO (CBAO) containing 5.07 ± 0.06 mg kg⁻¹ benzoic acid and 4.25 ± 0.04 mg kg⁻¹ HCN exhibits corrosive effects on steel. Simulation corrosion test results indicate that the addition of CN⁻ or benzoic acid has significant effect on the corrosion of steel. Specifically, at ≥1 × 10⁴ mg kg⁻¹ benzoic acid concentration or ≥5 mg kg⁻¹ CN⁻ concentration, the mass of steel blocks in oil decreases and the contents of Fe, Zn, Al, and Mg ions in oil increase significantly. Therefore, HCN in CBAO is the main cause of screw oil expeller corrosion in BAO processing and benzoic acid is the secondary cause. Practical Applications: The corrosion behavior of CBAO not only damages the integrity of the screw oil expeller but also increases the dissolution of toxic metals from the components into oil. The study of corrosion has practical value in taking effective measures, such as detoxification before pressing and addition of natural inhibitors, to reduce corrosion and ensure the quality of CBAO. Corrosion study provides the basis for the selection of steel materials of screw oil expeller.
This paper determined the contents of hydrocyanic acid after hydrolyzation of amygdalin in nut of green plum bloating waste liquid after bloating for 22,45,90,180,and 360 days by using isonicotinic acid-pyrazolone spectrophotometry.The results showed that isonicotinic acid-pyrazolone spectrophotometry possessed fine precision and nicety degrees;Amygdalin hydrolyzation condition was PH2,and the distillation time was 80 min;Complete hydrolysis of the amygdalin was found in the green plum waste liquid after the bloating for 180 days. The concentration of hydrocyanic acid was 83.3 mg·L-1.
Ammoxidation of coal on oxide catalyts has shown the possibility of hydrocyanic acid formation at sufficiently low temperatures.
A central focus of astrobiology is the determination of abiotic formation routes to important biomolecules. The dissociation mechanisms of these molecules lend valuable insights into their synthesis pathways. Because of the detection of organic anions in the interstellar medium (ISM), it is imperative to study their role in these syntheses. This work aims to experimentally and computationally examine deprotonated adenine and guanine dissociation in an effort to illuminate potential anionic precursors to purine formation. Collision-induced dissociation (CID) products and their branching fractions are experimentally measured using an ion trap mass spectrometer. Deprotonated guanine dissociates primarily by deammoniation (97%) with minor losses of carbodiimide (HNCNH) and/or cyanamide (NH2CN), and isocyanic acid (HNCO). Deprotonated adenine fragments by loss of hydrogen cyanide and/or isocyanide (HCN/HNC; 90%) and carbodiimide (HNCNH) and/or cyanamide (NH2CN; 10%). Tandem mass spectrometry (MS(n)) experiments reveal that deprotonated guanine fragments lose additional HCN and CO, while deprotonated adenine fragments successively lose HNC and HCN. Every neutral fragment observed in this study has been detected in the ISM, highlighting the potential for nucleobases such as these to form in such environments. Lastly, the acidity of abundant fragment ions is experimentally bracketed. Theoretical calculations at the B3LYP/6-311++G(d,p) level of theory are performed to delineate the mechanisms of dissociation and analyze the energies of reactants, intermediates, transition states, and products of these CID processes.
A study was carried out to test the effect of direct and indirect plant growth-promoting traits of bacteria, isolated from compost and rhizosphere soils, on chickpea. A total of 74 bacteria were isolated from herbal vermicomposts and rhizosphere soils of chickpea and screened for their antagonistic potential against soil-borne fungal pathogens of chickpea. Of which, four bacterial isolates (VBI-4, VBI-19, VBI-23, and SBI-23) were found to be promising in both dual culture and metabolite production assays. These isolates were identified as Bacillus species by 16S ribosomal DNA (rDNA) sequence analysis. Under in vitro conditions, all the isolates were found to produce protease, cellulase, β-1,3-glucanase, siderophore, indole acetic acid, lipase (except VBI-19), and hydrocyanic acid (except VBI-23 and SBI-23). All the isolates were tolerant to fungicides such as bavistin, captan, benlate, ridomil (only VBI-23 and SBI-23), and thiram (only VBI-4 and VBI-19) at field application rates. The isolates were also found to tolerate NaCl concentration of up to 8 % (VBI-23 up to 10 %), temperature range of 20 to 40 °C, and a pH range of 7 to 11 (SBI-23 up to only 9). When the isolates were evaluated for their plant growth promotion (PGP) ability under greenhouse and field conditions on chickpea, all the isolates were able to increase growth parameters including nodule number, plant growth, and yield parameters when compared to uninoculated control. The isolates also increased the soil mineral properties including total N, available P, organic carbon (OC) %, microbial biomass C, and dehydrogenase activity in rhizosphere, at both flowering and harvest stages over the uninoculated control plots. All the isolates were found to colonize chickpea roots when observed under scanning electron microscope. This investigation indicated the PGP potential of selected bacteria in chickpea cultivation.
Free radical-initiated peptide sequencing (FRIPS) mass spectrometry derives advantage from the introduction of highly selective low-energy dissociation pathways in target peptides. An acetyl radical, formed at the peptide N-terminus via collisional activation and subsequent dissociation of a covalently attached radical precursor, abstracts a hydrogen atom from diverse sites on the peptide, yielding sequence information through backbone cleavage as well as side-chain loss. Unique free-radical-initiated dissociation pathways observed at serine and threonine residues lead to cleavage of the neighboring N-terminal Cα-C or N-Cα bond rather than the typical Cα-C bond cleavage observed with other amino acids. These reactions were investigated by FRIPS of model peptides of the form AARAAAXAA, where X is the amino acid of interest. In combination with density functional theory (DFT) calculations, the experiments indicate the strong influence of hydrogen bonding at serine or threonine on the observed free radical chemistry. Hydrogen bonding of the side-chain hydroxyl group with a backbone carbonyl oxygen aligns the singly occupied π orbital on the β-carbon and the N-Cα bond, leading to low-barrier β-cleavage of the N-Cα bond. Interaction with the N-terminal carbonyl favors a hydrogen-atom transfer process to yield stable c and z(•) ions, whereas C-terminal interaction leads to effective cleavage of the Cα-C bond through rapid loss of isocyanic acid. Dissociation of the Cα-C bond may also occur via water loss followed by β-cleavage from a nitrogen-centered radical. These competitive dissociation pathways from a single residue illustrate the sensitivity of gas-phase free radical chemistry to subtle factors such as hydrogen bonding that affect the potential energy surface for these low-barrier processes.
The invention discloses a preparation process of a DL-2-hydroxy-3-butenoic acid ester represented by a general formula (I). In the general formula (I), R represents methyl, ethyl or n-propyl. The preparation process includes that cheap acrolein and hydrocyanic acid are used as initial raw materials, alcohol ROH is used as a solvent, the mixture is catalyzed by inorganic ammonia salts or organic amine and then subjected to cyaniding reaction to obtain 2-hydroxy-3-butenenitrile, concentrated sulfuric acid is added into the obtained reaction fluid or hydrogen chloride is accessed to the obtained reaction fluid to adjust PH value of solution to 1-6, the solid-liquid separation is performed, under the catalysis of the concentrated sulfuric acid or the hydrogen chloride, the obtained fluid and the alcohol ROH are subjected to hydrolyzing and esterification to achieve one-step preparation of the DL-2-hydroxy-3-butenoic acid ester, and the obtained reactant is subjected to simple purification to obtain highly purified DL-2-hydroxy-3-butenoic acid ester products. The preparation process has the advantages of being short in synthetic route and simple and convenient to operate, and the products are easy to separate, high in purity and yield, low in producing cost and good in application prospect.
Cyanide is a rapidly acting and lethal poison. This compound is a glycoside formed by condensation of the hydroxyl group of the cyanohydrin derivative and D-glucose, which are present in more than 2600 species, including approximately 26 economically important crops, such as linseed, cassava, and bitter almond 1, 2 . Bitter almond kernel contains a colorless and crystalline glucoside known as amygdalin 3 . In addition, this kernel contains an enzyme that may release hydrocyanic acid HCN and benzaldehyde when chewed or crushed 4, 5 . In intact plants, these compounds are accumulated in the cell vacuoles of the plant tissue, separating them from their hydrolyzing enzymes, specifically β-1,6-glycosidases and hydroxynitrile lyases 6 .
Abstract A study was carried out to test the effect of direct and indirect plant growth-promoting traits of bacteria, isolated from compost and rhizosphere soils, on chickpea. A total of 74 bacteria were isolated from herbal vermicomposts and rhizosphere soils of chickpea and screened for their antagonistic potential against soil-borne fungal pathogens of chickpea. Of which, four bacterial isolates were found to be promising in both dual culture and metabolite production assays. These isolates were identified as Bacillus species by 16S ribosomal DNA (rDNA) sequence analysis. Under in vitro conditions, all the isolates were found to produce protease, cellulase, β-1,3-glucanase, siderophore, indole acetic acid, lipase (except VBI-19), and hydrocyanic acid (except VBI-23 and SBI-23). All the isolates were tolerant to fungicides such as bavistin, captan, benlate, ridomil (only VBI-23 and SBI-23), and thiram (only VBI-4 and VBI-19) at field application rates. The isolates were also found to tolerate NaCl concentration of up to 8 % (VBI-23 up to 10 %), temperature range of 20 to 40°C, and a pH range of 7 to 11 (SBI-23 up to only 9). When the isolates were evaluated for their plant growth promotion (PGP) ability under greenhouse and field conditions on chickpea, all the isolates were able to increase growth parameters including nodule number, plant growth, and yield parameters when compared to uninoculated control. The isolates also increased the soil mineral properties including total N, available P, organic carbon (OC) %, microbial biomass C, and dehydrogenase activity in rhizosphere, at both flowering and harvest stages over the uninoculated control plots. All the isolates were found to colonize chickpea roots when observed under scanning electron microscope. This investigation indicated the PGP potential of selected bacteria in chickpea cultivation.
Chickpea (Cicer arietinum L.) is the second most cultivated pulse crop in the world, after common bean with an annual production of 13.8 million tons (FAOSTAT 2014) . The favorable conditions for growing chickpea are low temperatures, less rainfall, and soils with neutral pH. Chickpea is relatively drought tolerant when compared with other pulses. However, it is sensitive to high moisture and high temperatures (Clarke and Siddique 2004) . Chickpea crop is affected by the number of diseases at various stages of its growth. Of which, diseases caused by fungi are important because they are easily propagated and are known to cause huge losses in productivity. The crop losses due to fungal pathogens can be sometimes up to 100 % (Akhtar and Siddiqui 2010) . Usually, soil-borne fungal pathogens are controlled by chemicals; however, this practice also leads to other environmental and health concerns. Approximately 2.5 million tons of pesticides are used annually worldwide which in return are accumulating in to the environment (Rao et al. 2015) . In order to avoid this problem, biological control methods are followed where a group of microbes are used to control phytopathogens. Bacteria which are present in soil and help plants to promote their growth and development are called plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR). PGPR enhances plant growth by two ways, either directly by producing phytohormones such as indole acetic acid (IAA) and siderophores (making Fe available for growth) or indirectly by producing lytic enzymes, antibiotic compounds, and volatile compounds such as hydrocyanic acid (HCN) and chitinase and control soil-borne pathogens. PGPR such as Bacillus, Azotobacter, Pseudomonads, Burkholderia, and Enterobacter are reported in promoting plant growth and yield by both direct as well as indirect means (El-Tarabily et al. 2009 ). PGPR are usually isolated from compost and rhizosphere of economically important crops. The main objectives of the present study were to isolate bacteria from herbal vermicomposts and rhizosphere soils of chickpea, to screen for their antagonistic potential against soil-borne fungal pathogens of chickpea, and to test the direct and indirect PGP abilities on chickpea, under in vitro, greenhouse and field conditions.
The concentration of hydrocyanic acid gas in a large room fumigated with Cyanogas calcium cyanide was determined by removing fixed quantities of air during definite periods at selected times by an aspirator system, passing the samples through small volumes of 3.5% sodium hydroxide solutions, and calculating the ppm from analytical results secured by using a modification of the Liebig method. No consistent difference was noted in the concentration of gas at different elevations. The rate of decrease was directly proportionate to the initial concentrations. The decrease was also most clearly marked during the first five hours. Higher initial concentrations of gas per unit of calcium cyanide were derived from lower dosages. An increase in concentration usually occurred during the first two or three hours with dosages above 4 ounces per 1000 cubic feet.
Publisher Summary Azomethine imines are generally represented, by two closed-shell resonance structures A↔B, both with charge separation.Specifically, structure A represents an iminium imide and structure B is essentially a diazeniumylide. This chapter describes the generation of 2-thioxo-2,4-dihydro-3 H -imidazol-1-ium-1-imides, as intermediates in the course of [3+2] cycloaddition reactions of azoalkenes and thiocyanic acid, resulting in the formation of 1-aminoimidazole-2-thione derivatives. It also describes some additional reactions of these heterocycle amines. The chapter further discusses the rhodium-catalyzed intramolecular interaction of ω -diazenyl α ′-diazo ketones, essentially, giving rise to the formation of two cyclic azomethine imine isomers, with an exocyclic terminal nitrogen atom, and with all three azomethine imine atoms embedded in the heterocyclic ring. It also describes the synthetic approaches to the starting materials, ω -diazenyl α ′-diazo ketones, and provides some [3+2] cycloaddition reactions of the cyclic azomethine imines prepared.
The objective of this research was to evaluate the chemical and physical effects of different doses of Lactobacillus plantarum in the ensiling process of squash (Cucurbita maxima) and manioc (Manihot esculenta) for fermentation improvement. We used 1%, 2% and 3% of Lactobacillus plantarum content as treatments. Percentages correspond to fractions of a homogeneous mix composed of molasses, water, and squash and manioc wastes. We used a Randomized Complete Block design (RCB) using six treatments, each with three replications. The fermentation process was accomplished under anaerobic conditions, and lasted for 25 days. The chemical variables evaluated were as follows: Titratable acidity on different fermentation days (1, 12 and 25) in order to identify the presence of lactic acid, and pH level, which was measured on days 1 and 25. As bromatological variables, we included moisture content, ash, fiber, protein, fat, carbohydrates, total energy and hydrocyanic acid in the ensiling process of manioc wastes. Bromatological variables were measured on day 25 of the fermentation process. After data analysis, 2% Lactobacillus plantarum. This was determined in relation to microorganism response during the fermentation process through the assessment chemical of pH-related (a1b2 = 4,01 y a2b2 = 4,11) and acidity (a1b2 = 5,36 y a2b2 = 6,24) and through the presence of anti-nutrients in both ensiling processes.
Diffusion of thiocyanate (SCN-) and thiocyanic acid (HSCN) (pK=-1.8) through lipid bilayer membranes was studied as a function of pH. Membranes were made of egg phosphatidylcholine or phosphatidylcholine plus cholesterol (1:1 mol ratio) dissolved in decane or tetradecane. Tracer fluxes and electrical conductances were used to estimate the permeabilities to HSCN and SCN-. Over the pH range 1.0 to 3.3 only HSCN crosses the membrane at a significant rate. The relation between the total SCN flux (JA), concentrations and permeabilities is: 1/JA = 1/pul([A-]+[HA])+1/pm HA[HA], where [a-] and [HA] are the concentrations of SCN- and HSCN, pul is permeability coefficient of the unstirred layer, and PmHA is the membrane permeability to HSCN. By fitting this equation to the data we find that PmHA = 2.6 cm.s-1 and Pul = 9.0.10-4 cm .s-1. Conductance measurements indicate that PmA- is 5.10-9 cm.s-1. Addition of cholesterol to phosphatidylcholine (1:1 mol ratio) reduces PmHA by a factor of 0.4 but has no effect on PmA-. SCN- is potent inhibitor of acid secretion in gastric mucosa, but the mechanism of SCN- action is unknown. Our results suggest that SCN- acts by combining with H+ in the mucosal unstirred layer (secretory pits) and diffusing back into the cells as HSCN, thus dissipating the proton gradient across the secretory membrane. A similar mechanism of cation is proposed for some other inhibitors of gastric acid secretion, e.g. nitrite (NO2-), cyanate (CNO-) and NH4+.
We investigated the aetiopathological significance of garri a cassava ( Manihot esculenta ) based food incorporated in the regular diet of 16 mothers whose babies presented in University of Benin Teaching Hospital with varying severe congenital limb malformations. The pattern of these malformations had earlier been documented. The mothers who were from the coastal villages of the Niger-Delta region of Nigeria were predominantly garri makers and virtually subsisted on garri forms for their daily diets, even during pregnancy. Could the Hydrocyanic acid (HCN) content in the garri consumed by these mothers at pregnancy be responsible for the observed limb malformation on their babies? The difference in the garri eating habits (both in quantity and frequency) between the 16 garri making mothers of the patients and age-matched 16 mothers of healthy babies from the same geographical area selected as control, was in the length of time the garri stayed after processing and frying before consumption. Whereas the garri frying mothers prepared their meals often from the garri they processed themselves 1-2 days after frying, the control group prepared their garri meals from garri purchased from the markets. The processed garri gets to market in these areas for sale in the customary 5-day market cycle, making the market garri, at least, 5 days old from time of frying. Cyanide level of 1-2 day old garri was determined and compared with levels obtained in subsequent day 5, 10 and 14 of storage. The 24 to 48 hours old garri showed high toxic cyanide level of 81.15mg/kg (estimated toxic level>50mg/kg) compared to day 5 and above which showed drastic reduction of cyanide level down to Keywords : limb malformation, garri, cassava, cyanide, cyanogens West African Journal of Pharmacology and Drug Research Vol. 20(1&2) 2005: 68-71
Cassava producers in the region of Marilia-Sao Paulo are integrating their farming activity with beekeeping to diversify their income. The aim of this study was to evaluate the physicochemical and microbiological quality of honey samples produced by Africanized honeybees Apis mellifera from cassava flower in 2008. Analysis were carried out for pH, total soluble solids (TSS), acidity, moisture, reducing and total sugars, apparent sucrose, hydroxymethylfurfural, color, ash, proteins, water insoluble solids, diastasic activity, mineral content, microbiological evaluations, and mineral and hydrocyanic acid (HCN) content. The honey samples showed physicochemical and microbiological characteristics favorable to commercialization, with the exception of apparent sucrose and acidity, which show the need for a narrow focus of attention to the honey maturation degree at the harvest time and more careful monitoring during production and processing. The commercialization of Brazilian cassava honey, still little explored, can be widely spread in the market since the levels of hydrocyanic acid (HCN) showed no consumption risk; in addition the simultaneous production of honey and cassava provides an alternative to family income increase.
A comparative chemical analysis per 100 g of rice, potato and corms of two of the aroids indicates that besides being comparable in respect of some nutrient contents, the corms seem to be richer in Ca and Fe 16 . Flour made from aroids is an excellent starchy food and is highly digestible due to small grain size 6 . According to Gerpacio et al. 7 the advantage of using aroids for preparing infant food is that it contains an appreciable amount of protein and it does not contain hydrocyanic acid or any toxic substance in amount which is generally found in case of cassava. Its higher digestibility is an added advantage for its suitability for this purpose. Converting tubers into flours and starches may be an important process that could contribute to minimizing losses and to allow the commercial food industry to store the tuber throughout the year by using appropriate drying technology. Preservation by drying of this vegetable can prevent the wastage and make them available in the off-season. Processing of this vegetable into shelfstable products using efficient drying procedure and effective utilization of the finished products will enhance availability of the vegetable throughout the year. Moreover, this will stimulate increased production, bring better returns to the farmers and improve nutritional status of the people. Drying can be accomplished in a mechanical dryer, direct sunlight or solar dryer. In the mechanical dryer, desired temperature and airflow could be maintained. Compared to sun/solar drying higher airflow and temperature can be used in mechanical drying. As a result higher production rates and improved quality products are achieved. Moreover mechanical drying is being independent of sunlight it can be done as and when necessary.
In search for new sources of food for humans and animals, many wild plants are being investigated as food sources. Bamboo is one such uncommon food. It has now achieved the status of an economically most important plant, rightly considered as "Green Gold" (Dutt 2004) . Bamboo shoots are traditionally consumed more often as fresh vegetable during their season of availability. Bamboo shoots are used extensively for preparation of pickles, snacks, papads and other stuff to curries, bhaajis and other preparations with rice (Kumbhare and Bhargava 2007) . The common edible bamboo species in India are Dendrocalamus strictus and Bambosa bambos (Awasthi and Tewari 2008; Pandey and Jharia 2009) . Zhang and Liu (2001) reported that bamboo shoots contain vitamins C, B 6 and B 2 , and amino acids essential for human nutrition. They also contain minerals (Zn, Co, K, Mn) and plenty of dietary fiber. Sucrose is the most abundant sugar in bamboo shoot. Bamboo shoots contain high proportion of linoleic acid. The major fatty acid in bamboo shoots is palmitic acid; glutamic acid and lysine are the most abundant amino acids in bamboo shoots (Soo-Jung and Sung-Ja 1993) . Bhargava et al. (1996) have reported that bamboo shoot contains appreciable quantities of vitamin C, carbohydrates and protein. Besides, bamboo shoots of many species also contain lethal concentration of cyanogenic glucosides, which on endogenic hydrolysis, yield hydrocyanic acid. Cooking destroys the enzymes responsible for the endogenic hydrolysis largely. Another constituent of bamboo shoot, known as homogentistic acid is responsible for the disagreeable, pungent taste, characteristics of bamboo shoots (Ferreira et al. 1991) . Freshly harvested bamboo shoot has a necessity for a precooking processing, primarily to remove the toxic and bitter components, prior to the preparation of any dish. The level of cyanogenic glucosides up to 500 ppm in foods is considered to be of no health hazard (Anon 2005; FAO 2005) . Soaking in water, sun drying, boiling and steaming are some popular traditional methods of reducing cyanide content (Coursey 1973 ).
Nitrogen species present in the feedstocks are converted into HCN and NH 3 in the gasification process. According to literature, the NH 3 /HCN ratio depends on many parameters [21] [22] [23] [24] , such as the nature of feedstocks (that may contain nitrogen compounds with different speciation), operating conditions of the gasification process such as pressure and temperature, gasification process technology (fixed bed, fluidized bed, entrained flow reactor). Nitrogen feedstock contents may vary from 0.1 to 3.3 mass.% [11, [25] [26] [27] , which affect accordingly the resulting nitrogen syngas contents after the gasification step [28] . In the gasification process, HCN formation is predominant from aromatic nitrogen compounds found in fossil feedstocks, whereas combustion of aminoacids and other nitrogen species usually present in biomass predominantly leads to the formation of NH 3 [3, 11, 22] . Syngas HCN contents may vary from a few mol. ppm to hundreds of mol. ppm, and NH 3 contents from a few mol. ppm to 14000 mol. ppm [3, 11] . Other nitrogen compounds might also be present in synthesis gases such as isocyanic acid HNCO, and nitrogen oxides NO x , also depending on the gasification operating conditions and technology [3, 11] .
However, peculiarities of the composition of some agroindustrial residues can compromise the microbial activity and consequently the conversion of these materials by the enzymes action. In this way, the cassava liquid residue (manipueira), generated by the processing of cassava for the production of flour, presents in its composition a glycoside (linamarin) potentially hydrolyzable to hydrocyanic acid (Barana & Cereda, 2000) . In such cases, there is a need to employ appropriate and metabolically adapted microbial strains to cover the residue in the product of interest, involving the isolation and selection of microorganism from the most diverse environments, including agroindustrial residues (Celestino et al., 2014) .
of COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) and 140 ppm of hydrocyanic acid (Chuzel, 2001) , the region Northeast is also largest generator of this waste, in Brazil. In order to minimize the environmental impacts resulting from the inappropriate disposal of cassava liquid waste in soils and water sources, studies have been developed to reuse this residue, including the use of this residue as a carbon source for microbial cultivation and obtention of biotechnological products of interest: Leonel and Cereda (1995) verified the biosynthesis of citric acid by Aspergillus niger; Barros, de Quadros, and Pastore (2008) reported biosurfactant production by Bacillus subtilis LB5a; Oliveira et al. (2013) used cassava liquid waste as source of carbon for the production of 2-phenylethanol by Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Kluyveromyces marxianus and Geotrichum fragrans.
Biodiesel has attracted considerable attention as an alternative to the fossil fuel resources. European Union and U.S. government have promulgated mandatory regulations for the use of biodiesel in transportation fuel and on-road diesel. 1 However, production of biodiesel by plant oil methanolysis generates large amount of glycerol (about 10 wt.%) as an unavoidable by-product, which has to be valorized to improve the economic competitiveness of biodiesel. 2 Therefore, transformation of glycerol into value-added products is of great significance. So far, several routes for glycerol conversion have been reported, such as selective oxidation, reduction, etherification, esterification, polymerization, transesterification, etc. 3, 4 Among the various downstream products of glycerol, glycerol carbonate (4-hydroxymethyl-2-oxo-1,3-dioxolane, GC) represents an important and potential glycerol derivative that shows low toxicity and volatility, biodegradability, high boiling point, etc. 5 GC has been widely used as a solvent in the cosmetics industry, as a membrane component for gas separation, as a component of coatings and detergents, as a precursor of glycidol, and as a monomer in preparing polycarbonate and polyurethane. [6] [7] [8] GC can be synthesized from glycerol and different reagents including CO, CO 2 , phosgene, urea and organic carbonates. Among these raw materials, CO or phosgene is practically limited due to their toxicity and safety issues at both laboratory and industrial scales. [9] [10] [11] The direct carbonation of glycerol with CO 2 is thermodynamically limited and only gives very low yield even under harsh reaction conditions. 12, 13 The disadvantages of preparing GC from glycerol and urea lead to the creation of large amounts of ammonia and the difficulty in separating the undesired by-products like isocyanic acid and biuret. 14, 15 Although GC may be obtained from glycerol and ethylene carbonate by transesterification, ethylene glycol is produced as by-product which makes the separation of products difficult because of their high boiling points. 16 Compared with these ways, transesterification of glycerol with dimethyl carbonate (DMC) for GC preparation is considered as the promising approach for industrial application due to the mild reaction conditions, easy separation, simple process and high GC yield. [17] [18] [19] Several catalysts have been employed to promote this reaction efficiently. Kim et al. 20 prepared GC in the presence of a lipase catalyst Novozym 435. However, the process is plagued by long reaction time, inconvenient removal of THF solvent and the sensitivity of lipase to environment. Recently, some homogeneous catalysts have been reported, they are tetra-N-butylammonium bromide, K 2 CO 3 , NaOH, etc. 8, 16, 21, 22 In spite of the high catalytic activity, these catalysts are less preferable in view of difficulty in separation of the spent catalyst from the reaction mixture and their poor reusability. To meet the requirement of future commercial production, development of efficient heterogeneous and recyclable catalyst is thus highly desirable. Ochoa-Gómez et al. 16 found that the basic catalysts were more active than the acidic ones, and their catalytic activity depended on the basic strength and basicity of catalysts. Among the evaluated catalysts, CaO was found to be the best basic catalyst and gave 95% of GC yield. However, CaO was easily deactivated after adsorbing trace amount of water or CO 2 . Alvarez et al. 18 prepared a series of Mg/Al mixed oxides from hydrotalcite and applied to the synthesis of GC as a solid base catalyst. 97% of glycerol conversion and 93% of GC yield were obtained under the optimized conditions. Takagaki et al. 23 stated that the uncalcined hydrotalcite with hydromagnesite phase could also promote GC formation.
The sorption of hydrogen phosphide (H3P), methyl bromide (MB), ethylene dibromide (EDB), and hydrocyanic acid (HCN) by wheat and corn of different moisture contents and load factors was determined. The drop in concentration in the presence of either wheat or corn was least for H3P followed by MB, EDE, and HCN. Sorption increased with an increased load. Sorption of the fumigant was greater as the moisture content increased.
Abstract This paper presents a thermogravimetry (TG) study of hydrogen cyanide polymers, synthesized from the reaction of equimolar aqueous solutions of sodium cyanide and ammonium chloride. Differential thermal analysis (DTA) and differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) were also used to evaluate the thermal behaviour of these black polymers, which play an important role in prebiotic chemistry. A coupled TG–mass spectrometer (MS) system allowed us to analyze the principal volatile thermal decomposition and fragmentation products of the isolated HCN polymers under dynamic conditions and an inert atmosphere. After dehydration, a multi-step decomposition occurred in this particular polymeric system, due to the release of ammonia, hydrogen cyanide (depolymerization reaction), isocyanic acid (or cyanic acid) and formamide; these two latter species allow us identify bond connectivities. Finally, data collected from TG experiments in an oxidative atmosphere showed significant differences at higher temperatures, above 400 °C. According to these results, the different techniques of thermal analysis here applied have demonstrated to be an adequate methodology for the study and characterization of this complex macromolecular system, whose structure remains controversial even today.
In living organisms, proteins are progressively modified by spontaneous non-enzymatic reactions generating many post-translational modification derived products (PTMDPs) which exert deleterious effects and may be considered endogenous toxins in diabetes mellitus and chronic renal failure. Non-enzymatic glycation, which refers to the spontaneous binding of reducing sugars to free amino groups, is increased in diabetes mellitus because of hyperglycemia and is amplified by oxidative processes ('glycoxidation'). Glycoxidation leads to the formation of 'advanced glycation end products' (AGEs), together with products of other oxidative pathways. AGEs alter tissue organization and cell-protein interactions, mainly in the case of long-lived extracellular matrix proteins, and interact with membrane receptors, among which RAGE (receptor of AGEs), a multiligand receptor which triggers intracellular signaling pathways stimulating inflammatory functions. Another major protein modification, carbamylation, is increased in chronic renal failure, which may occur during the course of diabetes mellitus. Carbamylation is due to the binding of isocyanic acid on the α-NH2 extremity of proteins or amino acids, or on ε-NH2 lysine groups, generating homocitrulline, a potential biomarker in atherosclerosis. Isocyanic acid is formed in vivo either by spontaneous dissociation of urea or by myeloperoxidase action on thiocyanate. Carbamylated proteins exhibit altered properties. For example, carbamylated collagen is unable to stimulate oxidative functions of polymorphonuclear neutrophils but increases matrix metalloproteinase-9 production by monocytes. Lipoprotein functions are altered by carbamylation and may contribute to atherogenesis. Thus, the numerous PTMDPs may be considered both hallmarks of protein damage in chronic diseases and endogenous toxins acting at the molecular and cellular levels.
Abstract The pyrolysates of ClCH 2 CH 2 NCO and ClCH 2 CH 2 NCS were investigated by pyrolysis-mass spectrometry and microwave spectroscopy (Py-MS/MW) at 100–900°C. In the mass spectrum of the pyrolysate of ClCH 2 CH 2 NCO a characteristic ion is seen at m/z 69, while in that of ClCH 2 CH 2 NCS ions at m/z 59, 62, 64, and 85 are observed. The identification by MW revealed that the ion at m/z 69 is the molecular ion of vinyl isocyanate, while the ion at m/z 59 is that of isothiocyanic acid, at m/z 62 and 64 are those of vinyl chloride, and at m/z 85 is that of vinyl isothiocyanate. In spite of the similarity of the two compounds, it was found that the pyrolysis mechanism of ClCH 2 CH 2 NCS was different from that of ClCH 2 CH 2 NCO. The generation of vinyl chloride and isothiocyanic acid from ClCH 2 CH 2 NCS suggests that the CN single bond of ClCH 2 CH 2 NCS may be weaker than that of ClCH 2 CH 2 NCO.
THE variation in the human ability to detect odors has not been subject to extensive study until recent years. Although familial conditions of partial and total anosmia are well known (Glaser, 1918; Moncrieff, 1944; Henkin, 1964) few studies have been done on the variation of odor sensitivity in the general population. Most workers on odor have used a small number of selected sensitive subjects and have given little or no attention to variation in the population (Wright, 1964). Use of such selected subjects may result in a biased view of human olfactory ability and also neglect information of genetic and physiological significance. The ability to detect the odor of hydrocyanic acid is one of the few odor sensitivities that has had population study (Allison, 1953; Kirk and Stenhouse, 1953; Biichi, 1957, Fukumoto, et al., 1957; Huser, et al., 1958). These studies have contradicted each other as to mode of inheritance but have agreed that the trait of non-smelling of hydrocyanic acid is monomeric and recessive. None of these studies has employed the use of serial dilutions for the study of sensitivity. Kecent workers on chemical theories of odor perception have proposed that specific chemical configurations of volatile odorant« "fit" a limited number of topographic structural patterns in the olfactory organ. The variety of odors which are perceived are supposed to result from various combinations of fits to "primary" receptor structures (Amoore. 1962; Wright, 1964). These theories have the genetic implication that variation in the receptor structures might be expected to be under genetic control and, if there is no severe selective pressure against variants of receptor number or type, several patterns of perception might be detected in the population. If these variants could be detected their patterns of variation might contribute information about the physiology of odor perception and also provide students of human genetics with a new variety of marker traits useful in characterizing human population and individual relationships.
Abstract The proximate composition, as well as some mineral, vitamin and anti-nutritional constituents in unripe and ripe fruits of Dennettia tripatela have been investigated. Moisture in the flesh of the fruit varied narrowly, ranging between 81% in the unripe and 82% in the ripe. The unripe and ripe seeds had about 25% and 71% lower moisture contents when compared with the unripe and ripe flesh, respectively. The crude protein and lipid contents in the unripe flesh were 4% DM and 2% DM, respectively; however, the corresponding values in the unripe seed represented 275% and 200% increases. Protein, lipid, fibre and ascorbic acid contents were generally higher in both the flesh and seed of ripe fruits. Tannin and oxalate contents in the flesh of ripe fruits represented about 100% and 50% increases, respectively, over corresponding values in the unripe fruit. The hydrocyanic acid contents tended to decrease from the flesh to the seeds and also from the unripe to the ripe fruits. The values for mineral contents varied widely, but calcium, magnesium and iron were present in appreciable quantities.
The study was carried out to determine and compare the chemical and sensory qualities of gari enriched with both defatted and full fat sesame seed flours. Sesame seed was processed into full- fat and defatted flours. The full fat and defatted flours were used to co-enrich the fermented, dewatered and sifted cassava meal during toasting at 5, 10 % levels to produce enriched gari. The samples were subjected to chemical and sensory evaluations. Chemical analysis showed that enrichment significantly increased (P lessthan 0.05) the protein content from 1.90% in the control sample to a range of 8.29% - 18.20%. The hydrocyanic acid content was reduced from 14.63 mg/kg in the control “gari” to a range of 8.12 mg/kg – 12.62 mg/kg for the enriched samples. The energy values increased significantly (P lessthan 0.05) from 1372.50 kJ/g to a range of 1442.58 – 1771.15 kJ/g. The pH was increased by enrichment with sesame meal. It increased from 3.81 in the control sample to a range of 3.89 – 4.22. The acidity was correspondingly reduced from 0.572% in the control “gari” to a range of 0.228 - 0.382% lactic acid in the enriched samples. The sensory evaluation shows that the sample enriched with 10% full fat supplement (FS) had the lowest score of 3.00 for appearance, which was rejected by the panelist as being too dark. The enriched samples were less sour than the control sample, but the sample enriched with defatted supplements tasted similarly as the control. The texture was also found to be a bit more fluffy and less cohesive. On the basis of overall acceptability, the control sample was found to be the best followed by the sample coenriched with defatted supplement, closely followed by the sample enriched with full fat supplements. Therefore, enriching gari with defatted sesame seed flours produced the best acceptable gari up to 10% level in terms of the chemical and sensory properties. Keywords: Sesame seed, chemical, pasting characteristics, sensory evaluations
To selectively reduce the delivery of hydrocyanic acid (HCN) in mainstream cigarette smoke, a porous material with metal-organic framework (MOF), copper-1, 3, 5-benzenetricarboxylic acid (Ⅱ) (Cu-BTC), was prepared by hydrothermal synthesis method. The crystal structure, pore structure and thermal stability of the prepared material were characterized by X-Ray powder diffraction, BET surface area analysis and thermal gravimetric analysis. The material was added into cigarette filter to test its harm reducing effect. The results showed that: 1) Cu-BTC was a typical MOF porous material with excellent thermal stability under 270 ℃. 2) Under the conditions of a simulated device for evaluating the harm reducing effects of cigarette additives, the reduction rate of HCN in mainstream cigarette smoke by Cu-BTC reached 51.9%; in a real cigarette experiment, the selective reduction rate of HCN by Cu-BTC was 21.83%, while the deliveries of routine components in cigarette smoke were basically similar to the control.
Abstract The reaction of 4,4′-dimethoxydiphenylmethanimine with carbon disulfide in bromoform was studied at temperatures of 40°, 50°, and 60° in sealed tubes. The products from this reaction are 4,4′-dimethoxythiobenzophenone and 4,4′-dimethoxydiphenylmethaniminium thiocyanate. The proposed mechanism postulates primary attack on the carbon atom of carbon disulfide by the imine nitrogen leading to a resonance stabilized intermediate followed by ring closure with formation of a 4-membered ring, which is unstable and decomposes to form thioketone and isothoicyanic acid. Supporting evidence for the proposed mechanism was drawn from kinetic studies, NMR studies, the effect of copper on the reaction system and the reaction of the benzyl substituted imine N-benzyl-4,4′-dimethoxydiphenylmethanimine (Schonberg's Reagent) with carbon disulfide at 43°. The formation of benzyl isothiocyanate in the system was inferred from the presence of N,N-dibenzylthiourea. The presence of benzyl isothiocyanate in the substituted imine—CS 2 system suggests that the initial decomposition product from the four membered ring intermediate in the imine—CS 2 system is HNCS. The work suggests that dithiocarbamic acids in oxidizing metallic copper may not react through a dithiocarboxyl group in a classical sense but through a zwitterionic form of the molecule where the hydrogen is attached to the nitrogen stom.
Twenty outbreaks of Phalaris aquatica "sudden death" syndrome in sheep were investigated between 1981 and 1991. Four were confirmed and one was suspected, to be a cardiac disorder; 5 were confirmed and 3 were suspected, to be a polioencephalomalacic disorder; the aetiology of the remaining 7 outbreaks could not be determined. Potentially toxic levels of hydrocyanic acid (20 to 36 mg/100 g) were measured in the 3 toxic phalaris pastures tested. The measurement of potentially toxic levels of nitrate nitrogen (2920 micrograms/g) in toxic phalaris pastures by others, was noted. It is suggested that phalaris "sudden death" syndrome could have as many as 4 different underlying mechanisms, and that these might reflect the presence in the plant of a cardio-respiratory toxin, a thiaminase and amine co-substate, cyanogenic compounds, and nitrate compounds.
Abstract. The Kathmandu Valley in Nepal suffers from severe wintertime air pollution. Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) are key constituents of air pollution, though their specific role in the valley is poorly understood due to insufficient data. During the SusKat-ABC (Sustainable Atmosphere for the Kathmandu Valley–Atmospheric Brown Clouds) field campaign conducted in Nepal in the winter of 2012–2013, a comprehensive study was carried out to characterise the chemical composition of ambient Kathmandu air, including the determination of speciated VOCs, by deploying a proton transfer reaction time-of-flight mass spectrometer (PTR-TOF-MS) – the first such deployment in South Asia. In the study, 71 ion peaks (for which measured ambient concentrations exceeded the 2σ detection limit) were detected in the PTR-TOF-MS mass scan data, highlighting the chemical complexity of ambient air in the valley. Of the 71 species, 37 were found to have campaign average concentrations greater than 200 ppt and were identified based on their spectral characteristics, ambient diel profiles and correlation with specific emission tracers as a result of the high mass resolution (m ∕ Δm > 4200) and temporal resolution (1 min) of the PTR-TOF-MS. The concentration ranking in the average VOC mixing ratios during our wintertime deployment was acetaldehyde (8.8 ppb) > methanol (7.4 ppb) > acetone + propanal (4.2 ppb) > benzene (2.7 ppb) > toluene (1.5 ppb) > isoprene (1.1 ppb) > acetonitrile (1.1 ppb) > C8-aromatics ( ∼ 1 ppb) > furan ( ∼ 0.5 ppb) > C9-aromatics (0.4 ppb). Distinct diel profiles were observed for the nominal isobaric compounds isoprene (m ∕ z = 69.070) and furan (m ∕ z = 69.033). Comparison with wintertime measurements from several locations elsewhere in the world showed mixing ratios of acetaldehyde ( ∼ 9 ppb), acetonitrile ( ∼ 1 ppb) and isoprene ( ∼ 1 ppb) to be among the highest reported to date. Two "new" ambient compounds, namely formamide (m ∕ z = 46.029) and acetamide (m ∕ z = 60.051), which can photochemically produce isocyanic acid in the atmosphere, are reported in this study along with nitromethane (a tracer for diesel exhaust), which has only recently been detected in ambient studies. Two distinct periods were selected during the campaign for detailed analysis: the first was associated with high wintertime emissions of biogenic isoprene and the second with elevated levels of ambient acetonitrile, benzene and isocyanic acid from biomass burning activities. Emissions from biomass burning and biomass co-fired brick kilns were found to be the dominant sources for compounds such as propyne, propene, benzene and propanenitrile, which correlated strongly with acetonitrile (r2 > 0.7), a chemical tracer for biomass burning. The calculated total VOC OH reactivity was dominated by acetaldehyde (24.0 %), isoprene (20.2 %) and propene (18.7 %), while oxygenated VOCs and isoprene collectively contributed to more than 68 % of the total ozone production potential. Based on known secondary organic aerosol (SOA) yields and measured ambient concentrations in the Kathmandu Valley, the relative SOA production potential of VOCs were benzene > naphthalene > toluene > xylenes > monoterpenes > trimethylbenzenes > styrene > isoprene. The first ambient measurements from any site in South Asia of compounds with significant health effects such as isocyanic acid, formamide, acetamide, naphthalene and nitromethane have been reported in this study. Our results suggest that mitigation of intense wintertime biomass burning activities, in particular point sources such biomass co-fired brick kilns, would be important to reduce the emission and formation of toxic VOCs (such as benzene and isocyanic acid) in the Kathmandu Valley.
The present study was aimed to analyse active compounds by GC-MS analysis, and investigate the cytotoxic and phytotoxic activity of Tabebuia rosea (Bertol.) DC flower extract. The cytotoxic activity of flower extract was evaluated by brine shrimp lethality bioassay method and the LC50 value found to be 46.93 μg/ml compared to taxol 0.85 μg/ml. Phytotoxicity assay showed significant root length inhibition by the extract at the concentrations of 100 ppm, 1000 ppm and 10000 ppm. Similarly, seed germination studies showed that the flower extracts possess significant inhibition at the concentrations 1000 ppm and 7500 ppm. Thus the cytotoxic and phytotoxic activity of the flower extract can be attributed due to the presence of 4H- Pyran-4 –one, 2, 3- Dihydro-3, 5- dihydroxy-6- methyl, 3, 4, 5-trimethyl phenol, thiocyanic acid, 2-propynyl ester and 2-propenoic acid, 3-(2-hydroxy phenol) compounds in the extract.
Global potential energy surfaces (PESs) of the [H,C,N,O] system in singlet and triplet states have been investigated using the hybrid density functional B3LYP/6−311G(d,p) method. Isocyanic acid, HNCO 1, has been found to be the most stable isomer for both multiplicities. The adiabatic singlet–triplet splitting for 1 is 82.6 kcal/mol. In the singlet state, HNCO is energetically followed by cyanic acid, HOCN 2, 28.7 kcal/mol higher than 1, fulminic acid, HCNO 3 (67.9 kcal/mol), and isofulminic acid, HONC 4 (87.1 kcal/mol). In the triplet state, the branched NC(H)O isomer 37 is 0.3 kcal/mol higher than 31, followed by HOCN 32 (27.9 kcal/mol relative to triplet HNCO) and HCNO 33 (40.6 kcal/mol). The barriers for intramolecular rearrangements within singlet and triplet [H,C,N,O] system have been calculated to be high, and the isomerization processes in most cases are not expected to compete with fragmentations. Several minima on the singlet–triplet seam of crossing, relevant to the singlet [H,C,N,O] decomposit...
Abstract Reduction of NOx to N2 over zeolite-based catalysts is a multi-step reaction for which transition metal (TM) ions are helpful but not indispensable. The present state of understanding the mechanism is reviewed for the catalyzed NOx reduction with ammonia or alkanes; reduction with acetaldehyde is also sketched, but will be described in detail in a separate paper. A decisive step is the interaction of two reaction intermediates containing N atoms in different oxidation states. A favorable reaction path uses an organic molecule to reduce part of the NOx to ammonia, this product then reacts with NO+NO2 to give N2. Isotopic labeling shows that each N2 molecule has one N atom from the NH3 intermediate, the other from NOx. N2 is formed at room temperature, if an 1:1 mixture of NO and NO2 is in contact with an Fe/MFI catalyst covered with NH3. During NOx reduction with CH4 over Pd/zeolite catalysts, H/D exchange of methane has been observed, indicating that methane is dissociatively adsorbed on Pd0 clusters that are present in the steady-state of surface oxidation and reduction steps. BaNaY catalysts, containing negligible impurities of TM elements, catalyze NOx reduction with acetaldehyde at 200 °C. In the prevailing mechanism acetaldehyde is transformed via acetate ions and nitromethane to isocyanic acid, which is hydrolyzed to NH3. Again, N2 is ultimately produced from NH3 and N2O3 via ammonium nitrite.
Limonium brasiliense (Boiss.) Kuntze (Plumbaginaceae) is a perennial herb, known by its common name "guaycurú ", that grows mostly in saline soils, distributed in Argentina, Uruguay and in the South of Brasil. Infusion from the roots is popularly used in the treatment of hemorrhage, menstrual disorders, rheumatism and it is believed to have cardioprotective properties (Gupta, 1995) . The alcoholic extracts from the roots have showed bacteriostatic activity, anti-inflammatory activity and ocytocin and bradykinin antagonism which could explain its action in patients with dysmenorrhea, amenorrhea and metrorrhagia (Jahns and Crescente, 1976) . Previous chemical studies reported the presence of tannins, leukoanthocyanins, hydrocyanic acid and ellagic acid in the roots (Medina et al., 1977; Ragonese and Milano, 1984) .
the SusKat-ABC campaign: high acetaldehyde, isoprene and isocyanic acid in wintertime air of the Kathmandu Valley by C. Sarkar et al., 2015 (ACPD) We thank the anonymous referee 2 for his/her time and efforts.
Thiocyanate is a major metabolic product of hydrocyanic acid. Its concentration in the serum, urine and saliva of individuals with little exposure to hydrocyanic acid (i.e. non smokers) is very low. But about three fold higher concentrations of thiocyanate are found in the sera, urine and saliva of smokers as compared to non smokers, because of cyanide provided by cigarette smoke. The concentrations of thiocyanate in the three biological fluids studied were different and it appeared to be no correlation in the distribution of thiocyanate concentrations in these fluids when individual subjects were compared. Urinary and salivary concentration power showed decreased kidney excretion of thiocyanate in smokers. The appearance or the disappearance of thiocyanates in the saliva and the urine takes place slowly. The salivary or urinary levels of thiocyanates are therefore good indicators of chronic intoxication from tobacco because it is not very sensitive to daily variations in tobacco smoking; it reflects the slow transformation of cyanide as well as the final elimination of this ion from urine which is slowed down in smokers.
The known enzymes (R)- and (S)-oxynitrilase catalyze the enantioselective addition of hydrocyanic acid to aldehydes to give (R)- and (S)-cyanohydrins. The optical yields can distinctly be improved by the application of organic solvents (i.e. ethyl acetate or diisopropyl ether) instead of a water/ethanol mixture which was used previously in these reactions. For the enzyme (S)-oxynitrilase Sorghum bicolor evolved to be the best source.
Portions of the S1[1A″(2 1A)]–S0[1A′(1 1A)] seam of conical intersection relevant to the internal conversion S1→S0 of photoexcited isocyanic acid HNCO are analyzed. The topography of the potential energy surfaces, and the derivative coupling, in the vicinity of a conical intersection is described in terms of four conical parameters. These parameters are also used to obtain a local diabatic representation that removes the singularity in the derivative coupling. Continuity is achieved through the use of a recently described orthogonalization procedure. The conical parameters demonstrate that the double cones of concern are significantly tilted, which has important implications for the nuclear dynamics.
Isocyanates are esters of isocyanic acid and the first member of this class of compounds was prepared by Wurtz in 1848. Organic isocyanates are a fascinating class of compounds, which have found wide-ranging applications in organic synthesis. In this context, stable isocyanates, having the isocyanate group attached to elements other than carbon, have become available in recent years, and silicon, phosphorus, and sulfur isocyanates are important chemical intermediates. In addition, complexes with coordinated isocyanate ligands are thought to be intermediates in some interesting transition metal-catalyzed reactions.
An infant of 9 months was admitted to hospital in comatose condition; cyanide poisoning was suspected. This poisoning was caused by the desorption of hydrocyanic acid from building materials after the house had been fumigated with hydrocyanic acid under strict supervision and observed safety measures. Administration of 4-dimethyl-aminophenol, a methaemoglobin inducer, and sodium thiosulphate together with supportive measures, led to complete recovery of the infant, although the general hypotony persisted for a few weeks.
3,4,5,6-Tetrahydro-2,4-dioxo-2H-1,3-oxazine (I) was prepared from isocyanic acid and β-propiolactone. Its structure was determined by elemental analysis and infrared, NMR, and mass spectroscopy. On heating it gave polyacrylamide with evolution of carbon dioxide. In the presence of sodium t-butoxide, it gave poly(β-alanine), acrylamide, and carbon dioxide. The possible mechanism of these reactions is shown by the fact that compound (I) first decomposed, giving acrylamide, and then acrylamide polymerized, giving polyacrylamide in the absence of sodium t-butoxide or poly(β-alanine) in the presence of sodium t-butoxide. 3,4,5,6-Tetrahydro-2,4-dioxo-3-phenyl-2H-1,3-oxazine also was obtained from phenyl isocyanate and β-propiolactone under the same conditions by which compound (I) was obtained.
Although the systematic investigation of catalytic hydrogenation may be regarded as beginning with the discovery of the hydrogenating properties of the metals of the nickel group by Sabatier and Senderens during the years immediately preceding 1900, a number of isolated examples of catalytic hydrogenation, principally with platinum or palladium, occur in the literature at considerably earlier dates. Thus, Debus 1, in 1863, studied the catalytic reduction of hydrocyanic acid to methylamine in the presence of platinum, de Wilde 2 hydrogenated both acetylene and ethylene to ethane, and Saytzeff and Kolbe 3 reduced a large number of organic substances, including nitrobenzene, nitromethane, nitrophenol and benzoyl chloride, by passage, in vapour form, over platinum or palladium. Early work on the reduction of inorganic salts, in solution, by means of palladium containing occluded hydrogen also exists4; and the activity of platinum in bringing about the union of hydrogen and oxygen had been known even in the early years of the nineteenth century.
The adsorption of ethyl isocyanate from the gas phase onto silica surfaces has been investigated by infra-red spectroscopy. Products of the adsorption process include a surface urethane, 1,3-diethylurea, a biuret, dissociatively adsorbed isocyanate and ethoxy groups, and compounds formed by the polymerization of isocyanic acid and hydrogen cyanide. The relative proportions of the reaction products are sensitive to the temperature of adsorption and the temperature at which the silica surface was evacuated before exposure to the adsorbate. The formation of diethylurea only occurs when molecular water or hydrogen-bonding hydroxyl groups are present on the oxide surface. The rate of formation of diethylurea from liquid mixtures of ethyl isocyanate and water is considerably enhanced by the addition of powdered silica. The hydrolysis reaction, promoted by silica, provides a method for the rapid preparation of 1,3-diethylurea.
In 1981 field studies at the lsabela Experiment Farm in northwestern Puerto Rico, we evaluated agronomic performance, hydrocyanic acid potential (HCNp) and heterosis in forage sorghum hybrids ( Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench). Three cuttings were made at 60-day interval. The combined analyses showed significant differences in yields of green forage (GF), dry forage (OF) and crude protein (CP); contents of dry matter (OM) and crude protein; tillers/plant; height; leaf area; and HCN-p at 45 days. Harvests were not a significant source of variation in leaf/stem ratio or in HCN-p at 60 days. The F 1 hybrids of CK-60 x Fa357, CK-60 x Common and CK-60 x Lahoma produced the highest OF and CP yields across the three harvests. The OF and CP yields of these top sorghum-sudangrass hybrids-about 20 and 2 metric tons, respectively in 180 days-and their relatively low HCN-p values, establish these genotypes among the most promising forage material for use under irrigation. The HCN-p values of all genotypes were lower at the 60-day harvest than at the 45-day sample. There were some instances of HCN-p value exceeding the "threshold of danger" of 200 p/m. Midparent heterosis was manifested for GF, OF and CP yields, height, tillers/plant and leaf area, but not for OF and CP content. High parent heterosis was less than midparent heterosis for most traits studied and was not observed for OM and CP content or for tillers/plant. The F 1 hybrid of CK-60 x Common exhibited the greatest heterosis, producing 146 and 125% more DF than the midparent and high parent, respectively. Fa357 was superior to all other lines in having the lowest HCN-p among the male parents at 60 days. Lahoma had the highest yield potential of the male parent lines and an intermediate level of HCN-p compared to the other lines.
Resorption of hydrocyanic acid after ingestion of linseed was investigated in 20 healthy volunteers and 5 patients. The persons investigated took a single dose of 30 g or of 100 g of linseed or they received throughout several weeks 15 g. t.i.d. One volunteer also took for purposes of comparison bitter almonds or potassium cyanide. Before, during and after the periods of ingestion plasma levels of hydrocyanic acid and of thiocyanate were normal. During long-term trials urinary excretion of thiocyanate was monitored regularly. Intake of linseed even in extremely high dosages never caused significant rises of plasma thiocyanate levels; this, however, was the case after intake of bitter almonds or potassium cyanide. Thus, it can be excluded, that intoxication by hydrocyanic acid can be caused by linseed. Long-term intake of linseed however, raised plasma levels of thiocyanate significantly; at the same time urinary excretion of thiocyanate increased.
Publisher Summary This chapter discusses the methods involved in the manufacture of urea. In 1828, Wohler prepared urea from ammonia and cyanic acid, and demonstrated for the first time that substances of animal origin could be synthesized from inorganic materials in the laboratory. This marked the end of the vitalistic theory of organic chemistry. Of the number of methods that may be used for the preparation of urea, only Bassarow's (1870) has any commercial application. It involves the dehydration of ammonium carbamate produced by the reaction of carbon dioxide and ammonia at high temperature and pressure. Werner (1923) suggested that the reaction is more complex and that it is probably another variant of the Wohler synthesis. The success of the carbamate process is because of the ease with which carbamate is formed from ammonia and carbon dioxide.
The quality of assay methods for HbA 1c determination has greatly improved over the last decades, and most of analytical interferences have been controlled (1, 6) . This is the case of carbamylated haemoglobin (cHb), which results from the binding of urea-derived isocyanic acid and is increased in patients with chronic kidney disease. However, the potential interference of cHb on HbA 1c assays must remain of matter of vigilance (7, 8) . Furthermore, interference may be caused by labile glycated haemoglobin (LA 1c ), a labile and reversible fraction (Schiff base) formed at early stages of glyca- Desmons A. et al. Interference of cHb and LA 1c on HbA 1c measurement tion reaction, which directly depends on blood glucose concentration. Such a situation is reported here.
ABSTRACT. The known enzymes (R)-and (S)-oxynitrilase catalyze the enantioselective addition of hydrocyanic acid to aldehydes to give (R)-and (S)-cyanohydrins. The optical yields can distinctly be improved by the application of organic solvents (i.e. ethyl acetate or diisopropyl ether) instead of a waterjethanol mixture which was used previously in these reactions. For the enzyme (S)-oxynitrilase Sorghum bicolor evolved to be the best source. The optically active cyanohydrins can be transformed without any racemization by acid catalyzed hydrolysis into a-hydroxy acids and by hydrogenation with lithiumjaluminum hydride into 1,2-amino alcohols. Via addition of Grignard reagents to the O-protected cyanohydrins and follow-up hydrogenation, 1,2-amino alcohols are gained with very high diastereoselectivity. By O-sulfonylation of the (R)-and (S)-cyanohydrins optically active a-sulfonyloxy nitriles are obtained. These nitriles react with various nucleophiles by complete inversion of configuration to form various a-substituted carboxylic acid derivatives, a-azido nitriles, a-amino nitriles, aamino acids, etc.
E. Pfeil et al. have investigated the (R)-oxynitrilase (E.C. 4.1.2.10) catalyzed addition of hydrocyanic acid to various aldehydes to give (R)-cyanohydrins [1]. In the applied solvents, water or waterjalcohol mixtures, the normal chemical addition of HCN cannot be avoided which results in pure optical yields in most cases. All efforts to improve the optical yields in waterjalcohol solutions failed. By using organie solvents, which are not miscible with water, however, the (R)-cyanohydrins are obtained in excellent chemical and optical yields [2]. 25 S. Servi (ed.), Microbia l Reagents in Organic Synthesis,[25][26][27][28][29][30][31][32][33] 
Cassava wastewater contains toxic materials that can endanger humans, as well as other living organisms if they are not properly treated before disposal (Okafor & Maduagwu, 2000) . Cyanogenic concentrations in cassava roots range from 10-500 mg HCN (Siritunga & Sayre, 2004) , up to fifty times greater than the recommended safe levels of 10 ppm for human consumable food products (FAO/WHO, 1991) and levels exceeding 100 ppm are a health danger (Bokanga, 1994; Ernesto et al., 2002; Manjunatha et al., 2015; Minerals Council of Australia, 2016) . During cassava starch production, large amounts of cyanoglycosides are often released and hydrolyzed by plant-borne enzymes, leading to cyanide concentrations in wastewater as high as 200 mg L -1 (Siller & Winter, 1998) . Akinrele (1986) reported that large scale cassava processing could be hazardous, not by consuming residual cyanide in food, but the discharge of hydrocyanic acid into the air. In this context, the hydrocyanic acid contamination of the atmospheric air (Okafor & Maduagwu, 2000) and natural water sources (Okafor et al., 2001; Otuu et al., 2014) in areas near large scale "gari" processing as well as possible occupational exposures of humans to cyanide poisoning during large scale cassava processing (Okafor et al., 2002) have been reported. They found a statistically significant difference (p value < 0.05) between the mean thiocyanate excretion of the processors and the consumers, such that gari processing is the highest source of cyanide exposure among Nigerian communities dependent on cassava as their major staple. Hydrogen cyanide was readily absorbed from the skin or inhaled during roasting of gari, and converted to SCN in the liver and kidneys (Okafor et al., 2001 ).
More than 50% of cancer patients in Europe use complementary/ alternative medicine (CAM) instead of or combined with conventional therapy [1] . Amygdalin (AMG) has been one of the most popular "alternative cancer cures" in many European and South American countries [2] . AMG (D-mandelonitrile-β-D-gentiobioside) is a cyanogenic glycoside found in variety of plant species, mainly in the seeds of apricots and bitter almonds [3] . Seeds contain AMG depending on the variety: approximately 20-80 μmol/g AMG may be found in apricot seeds, and its concentration is very high (5.5 g/100 g) in bitter apricot cultivars while it is not detected in the sweet ones [4] . This natural substance is composed of two molecules of glucose, one benzaldehyde, and one hydrocyanic acid [5] . AMG itself is non-toxic, but it is decomposed by several enzymes into hydrogen cyanide (HCN), which is a poisonous substance [6] , causing potential toxicity issues for animals including humans [7] . Diverse studies have reported on the beneficial properties of AMG and its effective usage in the prevention or treatment of various diseases including cancers, migraine, chronic inflammation, fever and pain [8, 9] . However, AMG as a therapeutic agent has not yet received FDA (Food and Drug Administration) approval for its use in the United States owing to insufficient clinical verification of its therapeutic efficacy; hence the anticancer effect of amygdalin remains controversial [2] The possible impact of different naturally cyanidecontaining substances on the male reproductive system, focused on spermatozoa motility and morphological abnormalities in bull spermatozoa, was observed previously by Tanyildizi and Bozkurt [10] . The treatment of bull semen samples with amygdalin significantly (P < 0.01) inhibited the hyaluronidase activity of spermatozoa in vitro.
Cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS) has proved to be an effective and efficient genetic tool in sorghum (Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench) hybrid breeding programs. The A1 (milo cytoplasm) CMS type has been widely exploited to produce both commercial grain and forage sorghum hybrids. To explore the possibility of using alternative CMS (non-milo cytoplasm) sources, we studied the effect of cytoplasm on forage yield and quality in sorghum. Nine female (CMS) lines (representing three each in A1, A2, and A3 cytoplasms) and five male lines were used to generate 45 hybrids, which were evaluated in three environments. Cytoplasm and its first-order interaction with location and male and female lines showed the presence of a cytoplasmic effect on the majority of fodder yield and quality traits examined. The CMS lines possessing A3 cytoplasm (A3N213 and A3N193) were good combiners for important fodder yield and quality traits. For hydrocyanic acid, the CMS lines possessing A1 cytoplasm were good combiners. Mean performance of hybrids and combining ability analysis of parents revealed that A3 cytoplasm can be used along with the widely used A1 cytoplasm, which helps in the diversification of the male sterile base of forage sorghum hybrids.
A specific spot test for N-cyano compounds can be based on the fact that when they are treated with zinc and a mineral acid, hydrocyanic acid is split off. This volatile acid gives a blue color with filter paper moistened with copper acetate and benzidineacetate. The limits of identification are within the bounds of spot test analysis.
Two strains of Pseudomonas MRS23 and CRP55b showed antagonistic activity towards the pathogenic fungi Aspergillus sp., Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. ciceri, Pythium aphanidermatum and Rhizoctonia solani under culture conditions. Larger growth inhibition zones were obtained on nutrient agar (NA) and King's B media in comparison to potato dextrose agar and pigment production media. Both the strains produced siderophore in agar plates as well as in liquid cultures. Fungal inhibition zones were reduced in size and abolished in iron-supplemented NA medium by Pseudomonas strains MRS23 and CRP55b, respectively, indicating that some other metabolites along with siderophores are involved in growth inhibition of fungi by strain MRS23, whereas CRP55b produced only siderophores. Only Pseudomonas strain MRS23 was found to produce hydrocyanic acid (HCN). Seed bacterization with Pseudomonas strains of two chickpea (Cicer arietinum L.) cultivars, H8618 and C235, showed root-stunting effects at 5 days, whereas this inhibitory effect was overcome at 10 days of seedling growth in cv. H8618. Coinoculation of chickpea with Pseudomonas strains MRS23 and CRP55b, and Mesorhizobium sp. Cicer strain Ca181 resulted in the formation of 68.2–115.4% more nodules at 80 and 100 days after planting as compared to single inoculation with the Mesorhizobium strain under sterile conditions. The shoot dry weight ratios of coinoculated treatments at different stages of plant growth varied from 1.18 to 1.35 times that of Mesorhizobium-inoculated and 3.25 to 4.06 times those in uninoculated controls. The plant N contents were also increased significantly on coinoculation. Coinoculation effects of HCN-producing strain MRS23 were significantly lower than those of non-HCN-producing strain CRP55b in terms of shoot dry weight and shoot N. The results demonstrated the potential benefits of using rhizosphere bacteria as coinocula in nodule promotion and plant growth in chickpea.
Ethyl isocyanate reacts at 306 K with isolated hydroxyl groups on the surface of magnesium oxide to form a urethane. The adsorption reaction is reversed by evacuation at high temperatures. Adjacent interacting hydroxyl groups and molecular water on magnesium oxide react with ethyl isocyanate to give 1,3-diethylurea which is adsorbed on the oxide as a perturbed “carboxylate-type complex” and carbon dioxide which with water gives a surface bicarbonate species. The 1,3-diethylurea complex decomposes to surface ethyl magnesium carbonate on evacuation at elevated temperatures. The latter species is also formed when ethyl isocyanate reacts with the surface of magnesium oxide at 673 K. Other products of he high temperature reaction include cyanide and isocyanate groups as ligands of surface magnesium ions, adsorbed carbonate ions, and products of the polymerization reactions of ethyl isocyanate, isocyanic acid, and hydrogen cyanide.
Six organic thiocyanates, ethyl-, phenyl-, banzyl-, thymol-thiocyanate, ethylthiocyanoacetate, and para-thiocyanodimethylaniline were studied with regard to their pharmacological and toxicological actions. The toxic symptoms of organic thiocyanates which were observed in animals bare a great likeness with those of cyanides. The LD50 of cyanides and some of the organic thiocyanates were almost equimolecular, especially when administered intraperitoneally, and also there was no wide difference between them in the time required to kill the animals. The kymographic tracings of respiratory movement and blood pressure under the intravenous administration of most of these organic thiocyanates were almost alike to those of the cyanides; they caused temporary cessation of respiratory movement with 0.02 mM per kilogram. When some organic thiocyanates administered subcutaneously, the oxygen consumption of rabbits showed marked decrease even in the stage of convulsions. This phenomenon occurred similarly with KCN, the dosage of which was 0.07 mM per kilogram and coincided with the calculated number of three kinds of these organic compounds. Antidotes for cyanide poisoning, sodium thiosulfate and sodium nitrite, protected successfully mice and pigeons from death in spite of the lethal doses of organic thiocyanates. Furthermore, it was identified chemically by prussian blue-Schonbein's and AgNO3-reaction, that hydrocyanic acid was liberated to some extent from all the organic thiocyanates except para-thiocyanodimethylaniline, when 0.1-0.5 gm of these compounds were mixed with 50 gm of animal blood diluted with Tyrode's solution and stirred for one hour at 37° C. The results obtained here have led me to the assumption that there must be the liberation of hydro-cyanic acid from organic thiocyanates in the body, to which the toxic actions of those compounds should be attributed.
Abstract Cassava leaves (Manihot esculenta) are used to prepare “manicoba”. Of indigenous origin, this dish is considered of high nutritional value for Brazilian cuisine. However, the leaves should be processed in order to eliminate the hydrocyanic acid that they contain. In this work, the centesimal composition, physical-chemical characteristics, micro (Cu, Mn, and Zn) and macronutrients (Ca, K, and Mg) were evaluated in cassava leaves cultivates in the State of Bahia, Brazil, according to different types of processing the leaves. The centesimal composition and physical-chemical characteristics were determined employing methodologies described by Adolfo Lutz Institute. The determination of the mineral composition was performed employing ICP OES, after microwave-assisted acid decomposition procedure of leaves samples. The accuracy of the method was confirmed by the analysis of spinach and apple leaves certified reference materials (NIST 1570a and NIST 1515) from the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). Residual carbon content was evaluated by ICP OES. The samples were evaluated raw and after the cooking and fermentation processes. Losses of nutrients occurred after the cooking and fermentation processes. Average mineral concentrations in raw, cooked and fermented samples (in mg 100 g−1) were: 502.0, 487.6 and 458.4 for Ca; 40.1, 37.6 and 29.1 for Cu; 781.2, 180.9 and 57.8 for K; 150.3, 133.2 and 111.4 for Mg; 20.3, 18.8 and 15.7 for Mn; and 5.01, 4.64 and 4.02 for Zn. Average centesimal composition concentrations in raw, cooked and fermented samples (in % m m−1) were: 29.9, 12.2 and 11.1 for moisture content; 2.03, 0.66 and 0.54 for ashes; 10.2, 4.66 and 4.64 for proteins; 1.64, 1.88 and 1.07 for lipids; 56.3, 80.6 and 82.6 for carbohydrates; and 281, 358 and 359 for calorific value. Average physical-chemical characteristics values in raw sample were: 0.16–1.17% (titratable acidity); 5.91–6.41 (pH); 2.75–3.27 °Brix (soluble solids); 2.75–3.27 (ratio) and 4.53–38.7 mg 100 g−1 (vitamin C). The results were evaluated using multivariate analysis (PCA and HCA), in which there is a tendency of separation of the samples in groups, according to the treatment type that the samples were submitted.
Abstract : A detailed chemical kinetics model has been built to examine the gas-phase chemistry between isocyanic acid (HNCO), white fuming nitric acid (WFNA), N2O, CO2 and water. This kinetics model is able to explain the gas-phase ignition observed during hypergolic ignition of the ionic liquid; 1-butyl-3-methyl-imidazolium dicyanamide with WFNA. Sensitivity analyses have been performed to examine the reaction pathways for ignition. Ignition is predicted to occur via an exothermic reaction between isocyanic acid (HNCO) and nitric acid (HONO2), and subsequent HONO2 thermal decomposition that has NO2 and OH radicals as the primary chain carriers. A detailed understanding of the initiation processes in the liquid phase is needed as the 1-butyl-3- methyl-imidazolium dicyanamide and WFNA begin to react to produce the above pre-ignition species for the proposed chemical kinetics model to describe the ignition behavior of the system.
[Objective]To study the cyanide (cyanide glycosides) content of fresh bamboo shoots in Baoding markets,and investigate the effect of 2 kinds of cooking methods on its levels.[Methods]Total generated hydrocyanic acid were measured by barbituric acid and isonicotinic acid colorimetric method to represent cyanide glycosides levels in samples.[Results]The average cyanide level was 35.33 mg/kg in fresh bamboo shoots,and highest in bamboo shoot tip (183.43 mg/kg).The average cyanide level was low in processed bamboo shoots products,with the average of 1.73mg/kg.Cutting fresh bamboo shoots into small pieces and cooked in boiling water could reduce cyanide levels over 80 %.[Conclusion] Fresh bamboo shoot contains cyanide,especially in bamboo shoot tip,so that it can not be taken as immediate consumption.Cyanide levels can be reduced by cooking in boiling water.
Leucaena leucocephala (family: Fabaceae) is a small, fast-growing mimosoid tree. L. leucocephala is widely used for a variety of purposes, such as firewood, fiber, and livestock fodder [42] . L. leucocephala secretes phytotoxic allelochemicals, such as mimosine and phenolic compounds like p-hydroxycinnamic acid, protocatechuic acid, and gallic acid [43] . The plant also shows bioherbicidal activity towards many terrestrial plants [44] and aquatic weed water hyacinth [45] . Various medicinal properties of L. leucocephala include cure of stomach disorders, cancer chemoprevention, antiproliferative properties and in contraception and abortion [46] . Various parts of leucaena genus have been reported to contain epicatechin-3-O-gallate, quercetin-3-Oarabinofuranoside, quercetin-3-orhamnoside, apigenin, hydrocyanic acid, leucaenine, tannic acid and galactomannan mucilage in endosperm of the seeds [47] . Also, the plant parts contain fatty alcohol, fatty acids, terpenes, coumarins, flavonoids, sterols and other volatile oil compounds [48] .
Infectious bronchitis (IB) is a poultry disease caused by Coronavirus of Nidovirales order [1] . Coronavirus is enveloped, non-segmented, single-stranded, and RNA's positive sense, comprises approximately 27-32 Kb in size [2] . All Coronaviruses have four structural proteins, glycoprotein spike, matrix, nucleoprotein, and envelope consist of lipid bilayer and three glycoprotein M, S, and HE [3] . The S protein has two glycopolypeptide components which are S1 and S2. The spike protein S1 undergoes inhibitor of agglutination and induces neutralizing antibody [2] . S1 protein functioned as differentiating factor among IB virus (IBV) strains and as a main target of genotype characterization. It also plays an important role in attachment and virus entries into cells through cyanic acid receptor [4] . Amino acid variation in glycoprotein S1 took important place to tissue tropism and IB virulence [5] .
The FTIR spectra of aromatic and allyl cyanates have shown an interesting vibrational signature in the 2100 cm −1 region where at least three transitions are seen [9] [10] [11] . Since there is only one asymmetric OCN stretching mode in this spectral region, these bands arise from its coupling with combinations of other lower frequency modes. The mechanism of this coupling is not yet described [10] . Theoretical calculations of alkyl cyanates have assigned these peaks as Fermi resonances but experimental confirmation is lacking [12] . The two lower frequency peaks of phenyl cyanate (see Figure 1 ) have been suggested to arise from coupling with the phenyl ring modes which is consistent with the fact that most cyanic acid alkylesters show only one intense OCN band [10, 13] . However, two strong bands have been observed in the infrared spectrum of ethyl cyanate which suggests there are resonances that do not require phenyl modes *Corresponding Author. Fax: (215)-898-0590. Email address: hochstra@sas.upenn.edu. Publisher's Disclaimer: This is a PDF file of an unedited manuscript that has been accepted for publication. As a service to our customers we are providing this early version of the manuscript. The manuscript will undergo copyediting, typesetting, and review of the resulting proof before it is published in its final citable form. Please note that during the production process errors may be discovered which could affect the content, and all legal disclaimers that apply to the journal pertain. [14, 15] . Although the general theoretical descriptions of Fermi resonance are well established [16] , linear IR alone does not characterize these couplings unequivocally. On the other hand, two-dimensional infrared photon echo (2D IR) measurements can expose the anharmonic coupling between modes. The 2D IR spectroscopy has been shown to be useful method for clarifying vibrational spectral features of numerous condensed-phase systems including intermode coupling in peptides, identification of multiple conformers, chemically exchanging species, and other examples [17] [18] [19] [20] [21] [22] . Here, we report the 2D IR of the OCN region of phenyl cyanate and show that the multiple transition pattern observed is consistent with near, accidental resonances between a small number of overtone states with the OCN mode.
Grain sorghum [Soirghum bocolor (L.) Moench] typically produces larger seeds than sudangrass [S. bicolor, formerly S. sudanense (Piper) Stapf]; and grain sorghum seedlings are higher in hydricyanic acid potential (HCN-p) than sudangrass seedlings. Previous studies have shown a seed-parent effect on seed weight and HCN-p in reciprocal F 1 hybrids of sorghum × sudangrass
The invention discloses lucid ganoderma-gingko wine, relating to the technical field of biological engineering. According to the wine provided by the invention, the alcoholic strength is 8-16%, the content of general flavone is 1-5 mg/L, the content of gingko lactone is 1-6 mg/L, the content of general terpenes compound is 30-800 mg/L, the content of protein is 60-200 mg/L, the content of ganoderic acid is 10-17 mg/L, the content of soluble sugar is 0-2.0%, the content of gingko phenolic acid is 0-5 ppm and the content of hydrocyanic acid is 0-0.1 microgram/liter. According to the preparationmethod provided by the invention, the gingko is hydrolyzed by utilizing a double-enzyme method to obtain a gingko hydrolyzing solution and the gingko hydrolyzing solution contains active compounds including gingko flavone, terpenes compounds, amino acid, peptides and starch and the like, wherein the content of the amino acid and the peptides is not less than 1% and the content of the starch is not less than 2%; the hydrolyzing solution is converted through lucid ganoderma strains and a rice mold culture is added to ferment to obtain fermentation liquor; the fermentation liquor is filtered andblended to obtain the lucid ganoderma-gingko wine. The wine provided by the invention contains the active components of the gingko and the lucid ganoderma and has the functions of preventing hypertension, resisting oxidization and the like.
This article discusses the results of a project funded by the European Commission (EC) Framework IV Standards Measurements and Testing (SMT) Programme to provide official methods for the determination of spirit drinks. The project involved four main partners and over 60 laboratories in the resulting validation studies that evaluated 11 analytical methods, of which 10 were subsequently validated in the four-year study. The methods tested were determinations for: alcoholic strength; total dry extract; volatile acidity; esters; "congeners"; hydrocyanic acid; anethole; glycyrrhizic acid; chalcones; total sugar; and, egg yolk. The majority of the validated methods have been adopted into, or are under discussion for, European Union (EU) legislation. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved
Abstract The gas-phase reactivity of lead(II) ions towards uracil and thymine has been studied by means of mass spectrometry and theoretical calculations. Positive-ion electrospray spectra show that this reactivity gives rise to both singly and doubly-charged species. The singly charged [Pb(nucleobase) n –H] + ( n = 1–4) complexes are the most intense ions on spectra at low concentration and are produced notably by dissociative proton transfer within the doubly-charged [Pb(nucleobase) m ] 2+ ( m = 6–12) complexes. The most abundant ion, [Pb(nucleobase)–H] + , has been extensively studied by MS/MS experiments. Results obtained with uracil and thymine are rigorously similar and show that this ion mainly dissociates by elimination of isocyanic acid, and by formation of a [PbNCO] + ion. According to labeling experiments, the N3, C2 and O2 centers are exclusively expelled and complexed, respectively. Our experimental data suggest that the complex may correspond to a mixture of several structures. This is supported by stability of the most stable minima which are close in energy. Comparison with the geometry of neutral and deprotonated nucleobases indicates that lead cationization induces significant geometrical modifications, and more particularly an important activation of the N3 C4 bond, which accounts for the observed fragmentations.
Ethyl carbamate (EC) is a genotoxic compound in vitro and in vivo, it binds covalently to DNA and is an animal carcinogen. Today, EC is mainly found as a natural trace constituent in different alcoholic beverages and in fermented food items. Data on analytical methodology and the levels of EC in different food items are summarized and the daily burden of humans is estimated. Under normal dietary habits excluding alcoholic beverages, the unavoidable daily intake is 10-20 ng/kg b.w. On the basis of the evaluation of all toxicity data and its mode of action a conventional risk assessment of EC indicates that this level represents a negligible lifetime cancer risk (less than 0.0001%). Individual habits may greatly enhance the risk. Regular drinking of table wine (500 ml/day) would increase the risk up to 5 times, regular drinking of stone-fruit distillates (20-40 ml/day) would raise the calculated hypothetical tumor risk to near 0.01%. Human exposure to carcinogenic compounds should be as low as reasonably achievable. In order to take reliable measures to reduce EC levels in beverages and foods, it is crucial to know the mode of its formation. For its natural formation the presence of ethanol is absolutely required. In stone-fruit distillates hydrogen cyanide together with photochemically active substances are crucial to form EC. The main part of EC is formed after the distillation involving photochemical reactions. In wine (and probably bread) significant EC formation seems to depend on heat treatment. While in distillates hydrogen cyanide is the most important single precursor, in wine different carbamyl compounds, mainly urea, seem to be involved in EC formation. Despite this apparent difference a common EC formation pathway is discussed for all alcoholic beverages by assuming cyanic-/isocyanic acid as an important ultimate reactant with ethanol. Some ideas are presented as to the possible course of future work.
Primary and secondary pests which have been found in barley stores and in maltings are listed, and the life histories of the more important pests (grain weevil, saw-toothed grain beetle, khapra beetle, and rust-red flour beetle) and the types of damage caused are described; an account is given of the modes of spread of infestation and of conditions which favour insect development. Preventive measures include regular inspection of grain and containers, hygiene and attention to details of bin structure and storage practice. Control methods may be mechanical (screening), physical (heating), or chemical, the last involving the use of insecticides (e.g., DDT, γ-BHC, pyrethrum) or fumigants (e.g., hydrocyanic acid, methyl bromide, carbon tetrachloride); precautions to be observed in the use of these materials are detailed.
Three varieties of Gnetum africanum viz. the Asutan, Oron and Ikom, commonly consumed in the Southern parts of Nigeria, were assayed for their proximate nutritional composition and fibre characteristics as they related to age of the leaves. Nutritionally, the Asutan variety was significantly (p<0.05) superior to the other two. It had the highest levels of ash, protein, lipid and highest caloric value. It also had the lowest contents of antinutrients such as tannins, oxalates, glucosinolates and hydrocyanic acid, which were all below documented toxic levels. Bioassay using albino rats confirmed the high nutritional value of the Asutan variety. Phytogeriatological assay showed that, in the Asutan variety, protein content, crude fibre, fibre length and fibre width increased with age of the plant, peaking at 6–12 months. There was positive correlation between crude fibre, fibre length and age (p<0.05) whereas crude protein, in vitro digestibility and fibre width were negatively correlated with age. The findings are discussed with special reference to the possible contribution of G. africanum to the nutrient requirements of man in health and disease. A suggestion is also made for the selective cultivation of the Asutan variety over the other two.
Many sorghum (Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench) breeding lines have not been evaluated for inherent potential hydrocyanic acid (HCN-p) levels under field conditions. Additionally, levels of HCN-p remaining in sorghum stover used for animal grazing after grain harvest needs elucidation as well as N effects on lines shown to be inherently low in HCN-p. ::: Fifteen entries, including 13 sorghum lines, one sweet sorghum, and one sudangrass (Sorghum sudanense (Piper) Stapf), were evaluated for differences in HCN-p, influence of N fertilization, and date of harvest. The entry Tx7000 was consistently low in HCN-p at all harvest dates and only exceeded the “threshold of danger” (200 ppm) at the preboot stage. This level is considered to be an approximate value at which HCN may become toxic to ruminant animals. The highest ranking entry was SC0599-6, a Rio selection, which exceeded the 200 ppm level at all stages of harvest employed. Even in entries inherently low, added N increased HCN-p, which supports the theory that caution must be exercised when growing cultivars reportedly low in HCN-p, especially when N fertilizer is applied. ::: As expected, HCN-p tended to decrease with plant maturity. After physiological maturity of the grain, panicles were removed and leaf blades sampled 8 days later. Two of the entries still retained HCN-p in excess of 200 ppm, indicating a need to exercise caution with some cultivars when allowing cattle to graze stover after grain harvest
Hydrocyanic acid and various cyanides are relatively common poisons both in suicide, accident and occasionally homicide. Acute poisoning with cyanide is most often self administered as the swift and sure action is generally known. Accidental poisoning from inhalation of vapours due to fires in buildings or by the free gas liberated from some commercial processes is also known to occur. The preparations are rarely used with homicidal intent. Whatever be the manner of poisoning, in medical settings the persons involved in postmortem examination of cases of death of cyanide poisoning are exposed to significant degree of cyanide remaining in the body cavities and tissues of the deceased. This risk is not only for the persons attending postmortem examination but also for the first respondents like police, rescue persons and also persons extending emergency care both outside and within hospital. Hydrocyanic acid is rapidly absorbed from all mucous surfaces and even from unabraded skin. Hence attending a case of cyanide poisoning involves a hazard of inhalation of cyanide gas from the victim The hazards involved in such situations are briefly reviewed. Key Words: Cyanide, Postmortem Examination, Biological Hazard
Ketene-S,N-acetals of type 1, 2 reacted with isocyanates to 5-cyano-uracils 3 and 5-cyano-pyrimidin-2-ones 4, 5. Reaction of these with N nucleophiles was investigated furnishing 6-amino-pyrimidinones 6 as well as condensed pyrimidin-2-ones 7--10 and 13. Cyanic acid esters gave 5-cyano-pyrimidin-4-ones 16. Behavior of 16 toward nucleophiles is reported.
Abstract The formation of biuret from urea has been studied kinetically in 2-methoxyethanol at 120° by estimating the formed biuret with visible spectrophotometry. The apparent second-order rate constant decreases with proceeding of the reaction and with increasing the initial concentration of urea and ammonia. The addition of ammonia is effective in improving the constancy of apparent second-order rate constants. The reaction is subject to the base catalysis, where imidazole is more effective than triethylamine (a stronger base) or N-methylimidazole. The kinetic data are explicable by a mechanism involving the decomposition of urea to ammonia and isocyanic acid followed by the base-catalysed addition of the latter to urea.
The reaction mechanism of SiF2radical with isothiocyanic acid(HNCS)has been investigated by a B3LYP method of density functional theory,while the geometries and harmonic vibration frequencies of reactants,intermediates,transition states and products have been calculated at the B3LYP/6-311++G**level.Intermediates and transition states were confirmed by the results of vibration analysis and the internal reaction coordinate(IRC)calculation.To obtain more precise energy result,stationary point energies were calculated at a CCSD(T)/6-311++G**//B3LYP/6-311++G**level.In temperature range of 100to 2300K,the statistical thermodynamics and Eyring transition state theory with Winger correction are used to study the thermodynamic and kinetic characters of the channel with low energy barrier at 1.0Atm,and the main chemical bond formation and breaking are discussed through Atoms in molecules(AIM).The reaction SiF2+HNCS→IM1→TS1→IM2HCF2NCS(P1)was the main pathway with larger equilibrium constant and higher rate constant.
There are two different pathways known to be used for the detoxification of hydrocyanic acid in insects, viz., rhodanese and β-cyano-L-ala-nine synthase. We consider the latter to be indicative for cyanogenesis, while rhodanese might, in general, play a more important role in sulfur transfer for protein synthesis. This paper reports on the distribution of β-cyano-L-alanine (BCA) in the Lepidoptera. First reports of cyanogenesis are presented for the following families: Papilionidae, Pieridae, Lycaenidae, Hesperiidae, Lymantriidae, Arctiidae, Notodontidae, Megalopygidae, Limacodidae, Cymatophoridae, Noctuidae, Geometridae, and Yponomeutidae. New and old records for three other families, the Nymphalidae, Zygaenidae, and Heterogynidae, are included to complete the present state of knowledge. Special emphasis has been laid on the Nymphalidae, where BCA has been detected in eight subfamilies. Taxonomic, geographic, and seasonal variation has been found in a number of cases. In all cases observed so far, the source of cyanogenesis in the Lepidoptera is most probably the cyanoglucosides linamarin and lotaustralin, although cyanogenesis based on mustard oil glucosides and cyclopentenoid glucosides might occur as well. BCA has been found in both cryptic and aposematic species, including taxa such as the Pieridae, Danainae, Ithomiinae, and Arctiidae, where the defensive biology is believed to be linked with other compounds, like mustard oil glucosides, cardenolides, or pyrrolizidine alkaloids. The ecological interaction and significance of such secondary compounds is not yet understood.
Objective:Optimising the technological parameters for the extraction of Maxingshigan Decoction (Herba Ephedrae, Semen Pruni Armeniacae, Gypsum Fibrosum, Radix Glycyrrhizae). Methods:Using the even design and TCL, ephedrine, glycyrrhetinic acid, hydrocyanic acid, calciumion and extract weight were taken as the indexes. Results:Optimal parameters: the pH values of the water for the 1st, 2nd and 3rd decoctions are 2.0 ,6.5 and 9.0,respectively; and the time of 3 decoctions are 2.0,1.0and 0.5h, respectively. Conclusion:Optimal parameters for Maximpshipan Decoction are feasible in extraction.
SUMMARY ::: ::: The following are the more important results obtained:— ::: ::: ::: ::: 1 ::: Turgescent pith placed in water increases in length, at first slowly, then more quickly; and then again the rate of increase becomes slow. ::: ::: 2 ::: The rate of increase in length increases as the temperature of the water rises, reaches an optimum, and suddenly falls as a temperature sufficient to cause flaccidity is approached. ::: ::: 3 ::: The following reagents cause distinct acceleration:– Alcohol, ether, ammonia, hydrocyanic acid. The first three cause a very temporary effect, whereas prussic acid has a prolonged action. ::: ::: 4 ::: The following reagents produced retardation:–Acetic acid, hydrochloric acid, and probably nitric acid. ::: ::: 5 ::: Dilute solutions of quinine chloride, and of carbolic acid, produce a remarkably rapid shortening of the pith.
The aim of the study was to determinate that hydrocyanic acid (HCN) content. The experiment was carried out at Field Crop Department of Bati Akdeniz Agricultural Research Institute, in Antalya, in Turkey in 2017. The experiment was consisted of forty two genotypes of silagesorghum. The study was laid out in a randomized plot design with three replications. After harvesting, the seed samples were analyzed to determine the amount of HCN. The collected data were analyzed and the means were done multiple range tests at 1% level of probability byDuncan’s. Among the genotypes, showed significantly differences with regard to HCN content. The HCN ratio in sorghum genotypes were varied between 8.2 and 54.4. The highest HCN content were detected in 3, 17, 111, 157, 168 and 214 genotypes. As a result of the trial, it can be said that the HCN content may be used breeding criteria.
3-Phenylpyrazole-5-diazonium chloride (2) couples with benzoylacetonitrile and with phenacylthiocyanate to yield the corresponding hydrazone derivatives 3 a, b. Whereas 3 a cyclised into the pyrazolo[1,5-c]-as-triazine derivative (4a) upon treatment with concentrated sulphuric acid via elimination of water, treatment of 3 b with the same reagent under the same conditions has resulted in elimination of thiocyanic acid and the formation of the pyrazolo[1,5-c]-as-triazine derivative (4b). Treatment of 2 with aqueous sodium acetate has afforded the corresponding 3-phenyl-5-diazopyrazole (6). The latter reacted readily with dipolarophiles to yield pyrazolo- [1,5-c]-as-triazine derivatives. Pyrazolo[1,5-c]-as-triazines has also been formed upon treatment of 6 with active methylene compounds. The mechanism of reaction of 2 and 6 with active methylene compounds is discussed. Diazotization of 5-amino-3-ethyl-1,2,4-triazole nitrate (7) has afforded the corresponding diazonium derivative which coupled with benzoylacetonitrile and with acetoacetanilide to yield the corresponding hydrazones 9 a, b. The latter could be cyclised into 1,2,4-triazolo[1,5-c]-as-triazines by the action of concentrated sulphuric acid
Grain sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench) typically produces larger seeds than sudangrass [S. bicolor, formerly S. sudanense (Piper) Stapf]; and grain sorghum seedlings are higher in hydrocyanic acid potential (HCN-p) than sudangrass seedlings. Previous studies have shown a seed-parent effect on seed weight and HCN-p in reciprocal F, hybrids of sorghum X sudangrass. This study was conducted to determine whether the seed-parent effect on HCN-p could be attributed primarily to the difference in seed size between reciprocal sorghum X sudangrass hybrids. Large and small seeds of low-HCN-p sudangrass, high-HCN-p sorghum, and their reciprocal hybrids, were visually selected, individually weighed, and planted in growth chambers. Height, fresh weight, and HCN-p of the resulting 7-d-old shoots were measured. On average, the selected large seeds weighed ~1.6 times as much as the small seeds. Shoots from the large seeds were ~1.2 times as tall and 1.4 times as heavy as those from small seeds, and they contained =1.3 times as much HCN per shoot as did shoots from small seeds. However, the HCN-p (mg kg~' fresh wt.) of the shoots from large seeds was only slightly greater than that of shoots from small seeds (709 and 701 for first leaves of shoots, and 278 and 267 for shoot remainders from large and small seeds, respectively). Shoots from 5-d-old light-grown and etiolated seedlings also failed to show appreciable differences in HCNp due to seed size. It was concluded that the seed-parent effect on shoot HCN-p in crosses of sorghum and sudangrass was not caused primarily by the seed-parent effect on seed weight. I N A RECENT study of the inheritance of seedling hydrocyanic acid potential in crosses between high-HCN-p sorghum and low-HCN-p sudangrass, results indicated a maternal or seed-parent effect for seed weight and seedling HCN-p in the Fj and backcross generations (Lamb et al., 1987); however, no evidence of this reciprocal effect was found in the F 2 , suggesting that cytoplasmic inheritance is not involved. High, positive correlations (P < 0.01) between seed weight and seedling HCN-p were found for all entries taken together (r = 0.85**; significant at p < 0.01), for all parental lines (r = 0.82**), for all F, populations (r = 0.69**), and for all backcross populations (r =
N A RECENT study of the inheritance of seedling hydrocyanic acid potential in crosses between high-HCN-p sorghum and low-HCN-p sudangrass, results indicated a maternal or seed-parent effect for seed weight and seedling HCN-p in the Fj and backcross generations (Lamb et al., 1987) ; however, no evidence of this reciprocal effect was found in the F 2 , suggesting that cytoplasmic inheritance is not involved. High, positive correlations (P < 0.01) between seed weight and seedling HCN-p were found for all entries taken together (r = 0.85**; significant at p < 0.01), for all parental lines (r = 0.82**), for all F, populations (r = 0.69**), and for all backcross populations (r = 0.85**) (Lamb et al., 1987) ; however, correlations between seed weight and seedling HCN-p for individual entries, the pooled F 2 's, or within types of seed parent in the F! or backcross generations were generally nonsignificant. Thus, seed weight per se appeared not to have a large effect on seedling HCN-p.
Pearl millet (Pennisetum glaucum [L.] R. Br.) is the fifth most important cereal in the world [1] and the fourth most important cereal crop grown in South Asia in terms of area cultivated. It serves as a staple food for millions of people of semi-arid tropics. In the context of climate change, the crop has great potential as it is tolerant to high temperatures and drought stress [2] . Pearl millet has 14 to 20% protein and its amino acid profile is superior to that of maize and sorghum and is comparable to rice and wheat with a favourable leucine/isoleucine ratio [3, 4] . As compared to maize, wheat and sorghum, the energy density of pearl millet grain is higher, owing to its higher oil content [5] . Pearl millet grain is free from major anti-nutritional factors and the lower omega-6 to omega-3 fatty acid ratio makes it as a favoured food for human health [6, 7] . It serves as an excellent annual forage crop owing to low hydrocyanic acid content in the leaves and stems [8] .
Carbamylation is a different type of post-translational modification of proteins, in which isocyanic acid reacts with the amine group of an amino acid. Carbamylation will mostly result in the conversion of lysine into homocitrulline. However, under specific conditions, other amino acids, such as arginine and cysteine and the n-terminus of a protein can also react with cyanate (as reviewed in [11] ). Unlike citrullination, which is enzymatically mediated, carbamylation is a chemical reaction involving cyanate which is present in the body in equilibrium with urea. During inflammation, myeloperoxidase, which converts thiocyanate to cyanate, is released from neutrophils. This myeloperoxidase release can lead to a local increase in cyanate levels enabling further carbamylation to occur [12, 13] . A schematic picture of the carbamylation of a lysine is depicted in Figure 1A .
Hydroxynitrile lyases (HNLs) are important members of the a/b-hydrolase superfamily, and they catalyze the cleavage of cyanohydrins into aldehyde (or ketone) and hydrocyanic acid (HCN). The release of HCN not only protects plant systems from herbivores and microbial attack [1] [2] [3] but also provides a nitrogen source for the biosynthesis of asparagine. 4, 5 The reverse in vivo reactions may also occur under different conditions, with the efficient enantioselectivity for the synthesis of chiral compounds. [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] In recent years, HNLs have been successfully utilized in the production of pharmaceuticals and agrochemicals owing to their importance in biocatalytic retrosynthesis. [13] [14] [15] [16] [17] [18] [19] [20] Certainly, an improved understanding of the enzymatic catalysis mechanism of HNLs can potentially further optimize the production processes in industry and help the rational design of biocatalysts. Herein, the hydroxynitrile lyase from Hevea brasiliensis (HbHNL) has been considered. This enzyme can catalyze the formation of carbon-carbon bonds with high (S)-stereoselectivity during the chiral molecule synthesis. 19, 22 Up to now, a number of HbHNL crystal structures, including the apo state and the complex state, have been determined (see Table S1 in the ESI †). 21, [23] [24] [25] [26] [27] [28] These static structures provide an opportunity for subsequent computational simulations which can reveal the dynamical conformational evolution along the enzymecatalyzed reactions.
It has been well known that the accessibility of the active site for substrate binding and product release makes important contributions to the overall enzymatic efficiency. The crystal structure of HbHNL indicates that the active site is deeply buried inside the enzyme and there is only one narrow channel for substrate delivery. 24 In the channel for the ligand transportation, the flexibility of the side-chain residue Trp128 can be expected to play a nontrivial role. 25 However, plausible mechanisms and dynamical properties of acetone cyanohydrin delivery and hydrocyanic acid release also remain unknown. It is thus expected that computational studies can provide a microscopic description of the catalytic process and shed light on the exact roles of individual residues and the details of substrate delivery and product release. Our computational investigations will basically focus on the key issues related to the whole enzymatic catalysis accordingly. The questions to be addressed include: (i) what is the most likely catalytic mechanism for the enzymatic reaction in the protein environment? Are the proposed reaction steps of double-proton transfer, C-C bond cleavage, and HCN formation stepwise or concerted? And which is the rate-determining step? (ii) What is the role of the protonation state of Lys236 in these catalytic processes and how does this protonation state influence the overall catalytic reaction? (iii) What are the precise roles of the key residues in the whole catalytic process? (iv) What are the transportation mechanisms for the substrate acetone cyanohydrin and the product hydrocyanic acid? In an attempt to clarify these issues, we have conducted both classical molecular dynamics (MD) and combined quantum mechanics and molecular mechanics (QM/MM) MD simulations, which are expected to generate a full picture of the overall enzymatic catalysis and provide detailed information on enzyme engineering for biosynthesis of organic molecules.
The kinetics of the interaction of isocyanic acid with ethanol is investigated. The reaction products include ethyl carbamate and ethyl allophanate, the yields of which depend on both the concentration ratio of HNCO:ROH and the presence of a catalyst. The influence of water, acid, and base additives is also examined. A reaction mechanism is proposed.
A methodological approach to the complex geochemical analysis of the coal fire in burning coal mine heaps (BCMH) of Upper Silesian Coal Basin has been developed. The other approach used is gas chromatography and indicatory tubes. Powder X-Ray Diffraction is applied for phase analysis to determine the species composition of mineral condensates present within and around gas flues. The gas compositions are proved to be extremely variable, when comparing both different BCMH and flues or flue zones of the same heaps. One outstanding determination concerns GeCl4, found in most samples often in large quantities. No evident dependence between the gas and mineral condensate compositions is found: N-rich condensates may but do not have to be associated with NH3-, pyridine-, or NOx-rich gases. This is also true for S-rich and Cl-rich mineralization in connection with gases of SO2, H2S, OCS, CS2, thiophene, dimethyl sulfide, dimethyl disulfide, HCl, and various halogenated hydrocarbons. Fluorine is rarely present as HF, whereas SiF4 occurs more frequently and in much larger quantities. AsH3 is mainly a trace gas but may locally be enriched. Besides the common gases, a number of trace gases is also determined based on residual FTIR spectra. Those with the highest presence chance include cyanogen isocyanate, cyanogen N-oxide, (iso)cyanic acid, c-cyanomethanimine (ethylenediimine), isocyanatomethane, iodocyanoacetylene, acetonitrile, acetaldehyde, m-hydroxybenzonitrile (m-cyanophenol), isonitrosyl chloride, nitrosyl isocyanide, difluorosilane, pentacene, triphenylene, thiazolidine, cyclohexane, and a trinitrenetriazine. The occurrence of some metals and semimetals (e.g., Al, Mg, Ga) as neutral hydroxides, suggested by other authors to occur in natural gases, is possibly confirmed. The presence of trace metal carbonyls, nitrosyls and hydrides is also possible.
The invention discloses an odorless synthetic path without using or generating odor substances for methionine. 3-chloropropylaldehyde, hydrocyanic acid and ammonium bicarbonate react to synthesize 5-(beta-chloroethyl) hydantoin; the 5-(beta-chloroethyl) hydantoin and thiourea react to obtain thiourea sulfonium salts; the thiourea sulfonium salts and dimethyl sulfate react to synthesize 5-(beta-methylthioethyl) hydantoin; the 5-(beta-methylthioethyl) hydantoin is hydrolyzed by urea alkali, and is subjected to neutralizing, crystallizing, desalting and recrystallizing to obtain the methionine. The odor substances such as methyl mercaptan, hydrogen sulfide and the like are not used or generated in the synthetic path, so that the environmental protection is facilitated.
The RAPRENOx process for NO reduction in combustion products involves reaction of nitric oxide with isocyanic acid. We have developed a mechanism for the gas-phase reaction of isocyanic acid with nitric oxide in the presence of various amounts of O2, H2O, and CO. Kinetics calculations using the mechanism are compared with the experimental data of Siebers and Caton, and the model reproduces all trends of these data. Sensitivity and rate-of-production analyses show that the reactions of HNCO with OH, O, and H play a major role in the NO-removal process and that NO removal occurs primarily by reaction of NO with NCO to form N2O, which subsequently reacts slowly to form N2. The overall reaction is critically dependent on production of radicals. When O2, H2O, and CO are present, the radicals are supplied by the moist-CO chain branching sequence. When any of these species is absent, radicals must be supplied by other reactions, principally the N2O decomposition reaction and the reaction of the NH2 radical with NO.
The sodium and potassium salts of thiocyanic acid have been used intermittently in the treatment of hypertension since Pauli in 1903 discovered their property of lowering blood pressure. Their use, however, was rather restricted until Westphal in 1925 revived interest in the subject. Since that time many reports have appeared relating to their efficacy in the treatment of hypertension 1 and describing various side effects. One of the most remarkable of these collateral effects is the occasional acute enlargement of the thyroid which occurs in patients receiving thiocyanates. Although this phenomenon is mentioned in the course of several papers dealing with thiocyanate therapy, 2 there have been but few actual reports of such enlargement of the thyroid. We describe briefly such a case to emphasize further the possibility of this type of complication occurring during the administration of thiocyanates for hypertension. REPORT OF CASE An Italian woman aged 35, admitted
In a previous communication we 1 reported the synergism and potentiation of the antidotal action of sodium or amyl nitrite and sodium thiosulphate against cyanide poisoning. The combination of sodium thiosulphate with sodium nitrite proves to be better than with amyl nitrite. It becomes interesting to ascertain whether or not sodium tetrathionate will similarly potentiate the detoxifying action of sodium nitrite, since the tetrathionate has been shown to reduce the toxicity of hydrocyanic acid by Foresti 2 and Draize. 3 In a series of experiments with dogs our results reveal exactly the same synergism and potentiation that occur with sodium thiosulphate. With the combination of sodium nitrite and sodium tetrathionate,∗ at least 3 dogs out of groups of 5 survived 13 or less M.L.D.'s of sodium cyanide; whereas, with sodium nitrite alone only 4 M.L.D's and with sodium tetrathionate alone 3 M.L.D.'s of NaCN were detoxified. The antidotal effect of sodium nitrite and sodium tetrathionate given together thus exceeds the sum of those contributed individually by sodium nitrite and sodium tetrathionate. It is therefore another case of potentiation of action. The nitrite-tetrathionate combination is apparently efficacious in the late stages of cyanide poisoning. Dogs receiving large doses of NaCN have completely recovered at the point of respiratory failure. The following protocol can be taken as an example of our experiments: We have also studied the combination of methylene blue and sodium tetrathionate or thiosulphate in cyanide poisoning, and observed a synergistic action. The results are, however, much less striking.
PHYSICOCHEMICAL PROPERTIES AND BAKING QUALITIES OF BAKED WHEAT PRODUCTS SUPPLEMENTED WITH CASSAVA AND PIGEON PEA FLOURS By Sarah Chilungo Supplementation of wheat products with cassava and pigeon pea flours is a sustainable way to produce economical and nutritious baked products. The aims of this study were to evaluate the effects of cassava and pigeon pea flour supplementation on the physicochemical properties (chemical composition, viscosity, dough rheology) of flour blends, baking quality (bread and cookies), and digestibility of baked products from blended flour samples. Findings revealed that supplementation with pigeon pea flour increased protein content of the bread and cookie products. However, incorporation of cassava and pigeon pea flours resulted in significantly impaired bread quality, such as lowering of loaf volume and height. The quality attributes of blended flour cookies were superior to those of control (wheat cookies). The total hydrocyanic acid content of baked samples was significantly higher when added cassava flour levels increased, though still below the maximum allowable amount of 1 mg/kg. Both carbohydrate and in vitro protein digestibility decreased as wheat flour was substituted with cassava and pigeon pea flours, but still was above 50%.
This study was conducted at Biochemistry Section, Post Harvest Research Centre, Ayub Agricultural Research Institute, Faisalabad, Pakistan during the years 2006, 2007 and 2008 to evaluate different varieties/lines of sorghum fodder for hydrocyanic acid and crude protein contents. Ten varieties i.e. JS2001, JS-263, Hegari, F-9601, F-9603, F-9706, BS-1, SS-1, SS-2 and Jowar-86 were sown in randomized complete block design with three replications. Recommended dose of NP fertilizers was applied to the crop each year. Crop was harvested at maturity, green fodder yield was recorded and samples were analyzed for HCN and crude protein contents. On mean basis the results revealed significant differences among varieties for better yield, HCN and crude protein contents. Variety JS-2001 produced the highest green fodder (70.9 t/ha) while variety SS-2 gave the lowest (51.1 t/ha). Hydrocyanic acid contents ranged from 255.4 ppm (F-9601) to 346.6 ppm (Hegari). However, these values were within safe limit of 500 ppm. Crude protein contents ranged from 4.4 to 5.1 percent. Variety JS-263, Hegari and F-9603 showed the highest value (5.1 %) against the lowest by F-9706 and JS-2001 (4.4 %). On overall basis varieties JS2001 due to higher green fodder yield and low HCN contents and JS-263 with higher crude protein contents and higher fodder yield were found comparatively better than all other varieties / lines.
Vitamin and phytochemical contents of the leaves of Vernonia amygdalina, Gnetum africanum, Gongronema latifolium and Ocimum gratissimum subjected to different processing methods were investigated. Processing treatments employed include fresh milling, sun drying, oven drying, steaming and a combination of these. The vitamins evaluated include vitamins A, B 1 , B 2 , B 3 , B 6 and E while the phytochemicals were alkaloids, saponins, tannins, phenols, hydrocyanic acid and phytic acid. The results indicated high levels of vitamins and phytochemicals in the leaves. The different processing methods produced diverse effects on the vitamin and phytochemical contents of the leaves. In all the vegetables tested, fresh milling followed by sun drying were the most effective methods of retaining vitamins and phytochemicals, while steaming in combination with oven drying reduced most of the vitamins and phytochemicals. Other treatments caused varying degrees of significant losses of vitamins and phytochemicals at P = 0.05 in all the vegetables tested. To ensure safety and wholesomeness in the use of these leaves, processing methods leading to the retention of maximum nutrients and loss of maximum anti-nutrients should be encouraged to achieve the desired objective. Keywords : Vernonia amygdalina, Gnetum africanum, Gongronema latifolium, Ocimun gratissimum , processing, vitamins, phytochemicals African Journal of Biotechnology Vol. 12(26), pp. 4168-4173
Abstract Urea-SCR, the selective catalytic reduction using urea as reducing agent, has been investigated for about 10 years in detail and today is a well established technique for DeNO x of stationary diesel engines. It is presently also considered as the most promising way to diminish NO x emissions originating from heavy duty vehicles, especially trucks. The paper discusses the fundamental problems and challenges if urea-SCR is extended to mobile applications. The major goal is the reduction of the required catalyst volume while still maintaining a high selectivity for the SCR reaction over a wide temperature range. The much shorter residence time of the exhaust gas in the catalyst will lead to higher secondary emissions of ammonia and isocyanic acid originating from the reducing agent. Additional problems include the control strategy for urea dosing, the high freezing point of urea, and the long term stability of the catalyst.
Isocyanic acid (HNCO) is a known toxic species and yet the relative importance of primary and secondary sources to regional HNCO and population exposure remains unclear. Off-road diesel fuel combustion has previously been suggested to be an important regional source of HNCO, which implies that major industrial facilities such as the oil sands (OS), which consume large quantities of diesel fuel, can be sources of HNCO. The OS emissions of nontraditional toxic species such as HNCO have not been assessed. Here, airborne measurements of HNCO were used to estimate primary and secondary HNCO for the oil sands. Approximately 6.2 ± 1.1 kg hr-1 was emitted from off-road diesel activities within oil sands facilities, and an additional 116-186 kg hr-1 formed from the photochemical oxidation of diesel exhaust. Together, the primary and secondary HNCO from OS operations represent a significant anthropogenic HNCO source in Canada. The secondary HNCO downwind of the OS was enhanced by up to a factor of 20 relative to its primary emission, an enhancement factor significantly greater than previously estimated from laboratory studies. Incorporating HNCO emissions and formation into a regional model demonstrated that the HNCO levels in Fort McMurray (∼10-70 km downwind of the OS) are controlled by OS emissions; > 50% of the monthly mean HNCO arose from the OS. While the mean HNCO levels in Fort McMurray are predicted to be below the 1000 pptv level associated with potential negative health impacts, (∼25 pptv in August-September), an order of magnitude increase in concentration is predicted (250-600 pptv) when the town is directly impacted by OS plumes. The results here highlight the importance of obtaining at-source HNCO emission factors and advancing the understanding of secondary HNCO formation mechanisms, to assess and improve HNCO population exposure predictions.
Urea can dissociate in vivo to form isocyanic acid which can react with hemoglobin to form carbamylated hemoglobin. Previous work has shown that formation of carbamylated hemoglobin depends upon both the severity and the duration of renal failure. To determine whether carbamylated hemoglobin can be used as an assessment of the adequacy of hemodialysis treatment, we prospectively studied 55 stable patients who regularly attended our hospital dialysis program. Carbamylated hemoglobin was greater in those patients with a Kt/V of < or = 1.1 compared to those with a Kt/V of > 1.1 (120 +/- 8 micrograms VH/gHb versus 99 +/- 7, P < 0.01), and there was a negative correlation with Kt/V (r = -0.37, P = 0.007). There were positive correlations between carbamylated hemoglobin and the time-averaged urea concentration (r = 0.4, P = 0.004), and a negative correlation with the urea reduction ratio (r = -0.37, P = 0.01). Carbamylated hemoglobin may therefore be a useful marker of the degree of uremia, just as glycosylated hemoglobin is used in the assessment of patients with diabetes mellitus.
Protein carbamoylation is a non-enzymatic post-translational modification that binds isocyanic acid, which can be derived from the dissociation of urea or from the myeloperoxidase-mediated catabolism of thiocyanate, to the free amino groups of a multitude of proteins. Although the term 'carbamoylation' is usually replaced by the term "carbamylation" in the literature, carbamylation refers to a different chemical reaction (the reversible interaction of CO2 with α and ε-amino groups of proteins). Depending on the altered molecule (for example, collagen, erythropoietin, haemoglobin, low-density lipoprotein or high-density lipoprotein), carbamoylation can have different pathophysiological effects. Carbamoylated proteins have been linked to atherosclerosis, lipid metabolism, immune system dysfunction (such as inhibition of the classical complement pathway, inhibition of complement-dependent rituximab cytotoxicity, reduced oxidative neutrophil burst, and the formation of anti-carbamoylated protein antibodies) and renal fibrosis. In this Review, we discuss the carbamoylation process and evaluate the available biomarkers of carbamoylation (for example, homocitrulline, the percentage of carbamoylated albumin, carbamoylated haemoglobin, and carbamoylated low-density lipoprotein). We also discuss the relationship between carbamoylation and the occurrence of cardiovascular events and mortality in patients with chronic kidney disease and assess the effects of strategies to lower the carbamoylation load.
Production method of hydrocyanic acid in which is passed a gaseous mixture comprising methane (or natural gas) and ammonia and optionally air and / or oxygen, a platinum catalyst, wherein the gas mixture is added to least one sulfur compound corresponding to the general formula (I) R - S - (S) x - R 'where R and R', identical or different, represent an alkyl or alkenyl radical, linear or branched, containing 1 to 5 carbon atoms, x is a number ranging between 1 and 5, preferably between 1 and 3.
While reactions between closed shell molecules generally involve prohibitive barriers in the gas phase, prior experimental and theoretical studies have demonstrated that some of these reactions are significantly enhanced when confined within an icy grain mantle and can occur efficiently at temperatures below 100 K with no additional energy processing. The archetypal case is the reaction of formaldehyde (H2CO) and ammonia (NH3) to yield hydroxymethylamine (NH2CH2OH). In the present work we have characterized reactions involving methanol (CH3OH), carbon dioxide (CO2), carbon monoxide (CO), and isocyanic acid (HNCO) in search of other favorable cases. Most of the emphasis is on CH3OH, which was investigated in the two‐body reaction with one H2CO and the three‐body reaction with two H2CO molecules. The addition of a second H2CO to the product of the reaction between CH3OH and H2CO was also considered as an alternative route to longer polyoxymethylene polymers of the ‐CH2O‐ form. The reaction between HNCO and ...
Cyanide is an important environmental contaminant that occurs in surface and ground waters as a result of the discharge of industrial wastes. 1 The mechanism of cyanide toxicity demonstrated that it binds to iron in cytochrome oxidase and prevents it from entering the mitochondrial electron-transport chain. Consequently, cyanide is extremely toxic and even relatively small amounts of this species are lethal to humans. The World Health Organization (WHO) has set the maximum contaminant level of 70 μg L -1 of cyanide in drinking water. 2 Furthermore, one of the major cyanide source in daily human activity is the inhaled smoke by cigarette smokers. 3 Anoxia, headache, enlargement of the thyroid glands and convulsions with the paralysis of the respiratory center in the brain are some of the symptoms associated with cyanide poisoning. 4 Cyanide occurs in water as hydrocyanic acid (HCN), the cyanide ion (CN -), simple cyanides, metallocyanide complexes, and as simple chain and complex ring organic compounds. Free cyanide is defined as the sum of the cyanide present as HCN and CN -, and the relative concentrations of these two forms depend mainly on pH and temperature. Due to the pH of most natural waters, free cyanide in the form of HCN predominates. The apparent toxicity to aquatic systems of most simple cyanides and metallocyanide complexes is due mainly to the presence of HCN derived from dissociation, photodecomposition and hydrolysis. 5 Therefore, free cyanide is a much more reliable index of toxicity than total cyanide because total cyanide can include nitriles (organic cyanides) and relatively stable metallocyanide complexes.
Isocyanic acid was prepared in pure form by reaction of KOCN or NaOCN with stearic or oxalic acid in good yield. Identification, characterization and investigation of the thermal stability of HNCO and evidence for a possible existence of "dicyanic acid" have been studied in gas phase, liquid and solid state by vibrational and NMR spectroscopy and mass spectrometry.
Thiocyanate is not extractable into ether, benzene etc. from an alkaline solution, but, in an acidic solution, the free thiocyanic acid is readily extracted into organic solvents. The formation of red complex of this extracted thiocyanic acid with ferric iron was applied to the detection of acidic compounds as follows.Potassium thiocyanate (10%) solution and ether were added to a sample solution in a test tube. The mixture was shaken and allowed to stand for separating the two layers. A drop was drawn from the ether layer and put on a dried filter paper impregnated with ferric ammonium alum. The appearence of a brown spot indicated the acid substance.KSCN+H+→HSCN+K+HSCN(in ether)+Fe3+→Fe-SCN complex.
Abstract By kinetic studies and the identification of the labeled peptide of the [14C]KNCO-modified protein, the inactivation of bovine liver glutamate dehydrogenase by potassium cyanate can be attributed to the carbamylation of the e-amino group of lysine-97. Although the e-amino group of lysine-97 is the major site of carbamylation by cyanate, the α-amino group of alanine-1 and e-amino group of lysine-85 are also sites of carbamylation. Kinetic experiments indicate that the apparent pKa of the reactive amino group is 7.7, a value which is in good agreement with the apparent pKa of 8.0 ± 0.3 obtained by studies of the inactivation of the enzyme by reaction with pyridoxal and pyridoxal phosphate. Experimental evidence suggests that the previously reported inactivation of glutamate dehydrogenase by carbamyl phosphate can be attributed to the cyanic acid which is formed by the decomposition of carbamyl phosphate.
Abstract Changes in the infrared spectrum of iso-cyanic acid on hydrogen-bonding are discussed. Free energy, enthalpy and entropy changes for the 1:1 association of iso-cyanic acid with a number of bases in carbon tetrachloride solution at 25°C are reported. The results are discussed with reference to similar results for iso-thiocyanic acid.
Formamide (H2NCHO) is the smallest molecule possessing the biologically important amide bond. Recent interstellar observations have shown a strong correlation between the abundance of formamide and isocyanic acid (HNCO), indicating that they are likely to be chemically related, but no experiment or theory explains this correlation satisfactorily. We performed H + H2NCHO reactions in a para-hydrogen quantum-solid matrix host and identified production of H2NCO and HNCO from hydrogen-abstraction reactions. We identified also D2NCO, DNCO, HDNCO, and HDNCHO from the reaction H + D2NCHO, indicating the presence of hydrogen-addition reactions of DNCO and HDNCO. From the observed temporal profiles of H2NCHO, H2NCO, HNCO, and their deuterium isotopologues, we showed that a dual-cycle consisting of hydrogen abstraction and hydrogen addition can satisfactorily explain the quasi-equilibrium between H2NCHO and HNCO and explain other previous experimental results. Furthermore, this mechanism also indicates that the cat...
A total of 137 actinomycetes, isolated from 25 different herbal vermicomposts, were characterized for their antagonistic potential against Macrophomina phaseolina by dual-culture assay. Of them, eight most promising isolates (CAI-17, CAI-21, CAI-26, CAI-68, CAI-78, KAI-26, KAI-27 and MMA-32) were characterized for the production of siderophore, chitinase, protease, hydrocyanic acid (HCN), indole acetic acid (IAA) and further evaluated for their antagonistic potential against M. phaseolina by blotterpaper assay and in greenhouse. All the eight isolates produced HCN and IAA, seven produced siderophore (except CAI-78) and protease (except KAI-27) and four produced chitinase (CAI-26, KAI-26, KAI-27 and MMA-32). In the blotter-paper assay, no charcoal-rot infection was observed in KAI-26 and KAI-27-treated sorghum roots, indicating complete inhibition of the pathogen, while the other isolates showed 47 to 88% lesser charcoal-rot infection compared to the control. In the antifungal activity test against M. phaseolina (in greenhouse on sorghum), all the isolates increased in shoot dry mass by 28 to 53% and root dry mass by 5 to 21%, over the control. In order to confirm the plant growth promoting (PGP) traits of the isolates, the green house experiment was repeated, but in the absence of M. phaseolina . The results further confirmed the PGP traits of the isolates as evidenced by 15 to 34% increase in shoot dry mass on six isolates (except CAI-26 and KAI-27), 14 to 57% increase in root dry mass on five isolates (except CAI-68, KAI-26 and KAI-27), 17 to 60% increase in root length on five isolates (except CAI-17, CAI-21 and CAI-68) and 10 to 64% increase in root volume on six isolates (except CAI-17 and CAI-68). Culture filtrate of three potential actinomycetes (CAI-21, CAI-26 and MMA32) at 0.5% inhibited the growth of M. phaseolina, indicating that the metabolites of these actinomycetes were responsible for the inhibition. The sequences of 16S rDNA gene of the isolates matched with Streptomyces but with different species in BLAST analysis. This study indicates that the selected actinomycetes have the potential for PGP and control of charcoal-rot disease in sorghum.
The effect of Cassava replacing maize in the diet of grower pigs was investigated. A total of thirty six 5 week old male weaner large white \landrace cross pigs were used for the study. These were divided into four groups A - D S (n = 9) follow ng two weeks of acclimatization. The basic ingredients in their diets were soybean meal (SBM) palm kennel cake (PKC), maize, cassava flour, vitamin premix and sodium chloride. Four diets A - D were formulated using these ingredients. Diet A had maize only as the source of energy whi e diets B, C and D had maize replaced with 50, 75 and 100% cassava respectively. Groups a, B C and D were maintained on diets A, B, C and D respectively from week 7 of age until they attained 5 months of age. Observations for clinical conditions like anorexia, diarrhea, fever and signs of hydrocyanic acid intoxications and sexual behavioral patterns related to puberty were made throughout the course of study. Moreover, weekly determination of live weights and testicular growth were also carried out. There was no overt manifestation of any abnormality by the members of the maize replaced cassava diet. At 15 i
The potential energy surface (PES) of [CH2NO]+ ions with an NCO connectivity has been explored by GAUSSIAN-1 type calculations. Six isomers having an NCO backbone are found and characterized as minima on the PES; three of them are separated by isomerization barriers reasonably large enough to allow an experimental verification. The favored protonation site of neutral isocyanic acid (HNCO) is the nitrogen atom (proton affinity, calculated = 171.4 kcal/mol; experimental = 173 ± 1 kcal/mol) leading to the most stable isomer H2NCO+ (1). For the protonation of NCOH at the nitrogen atom we predict a proton affinity for the cyanic acid of 179.7 kcal/mol. The resulting ion HNCOH+ (2) is 15.9 kcal/mol higher in energy than 1. The third stable isomer 5 having the NCO connectivity can be formally viewed as a complex between CN and the water radical cation; 5 is 72.9 kcal/mol less stable than H2NCO+ (1). In addition, two high-energy isomers HN-C(H)O+(3) and HO-C(H)N+ (4) have been found, but according to the shape of the PES, they are predicted not to be accessible experimentally. The calculated thermochemical data are in excelled agreement with experimentally available values. The calculations are extended to the unimolecular fragmentation channels, which should be observed in mass-spectrometric experiments. The analysis of the results suggests that the hydrogen-atom elimination process is favored over all other dissociation channels, followed by loss of NH2-· and NH.
The preparation and use of thiocyanic acid in butanol water mixture is described and the RF values of twelve common cations found using the technique of RUTTER2 with this reagent, are given.
Abstract Matrix isolation FTIR spectroscopy has been combined with quantum chemical calculations in the aim to characterize complexes of isothiocyanic acid HNCS with SO 2 . The geometries of the 1:1, 1:2 and 2:1 complexes were optimized at the MP2 and DFT (B3LYPD3) levels of theory with the 6-311++G(3df,3pd) basis set. Five different HNCS ⋯ SO 2 structures of the 1:1 stoichiometry were optimized. Three of them involve a weak N H ⋯ O hydrogen bond whereas two other geometries are stabilized by van der Waals interactions of various types. The HNCS/SO 2 /Ar spectra analysis evidences that at least one of the three hydrogen bonded structure is present after deposition of the matrices whereas the most stable van der Waals HNCS ⋯ SO 2 structure as well as complexes of the 1:2 stoichiometry were detected upon annealing.
SummaryIn the course of attempts to prepare quinoline derivatives with substituted diguanide side chains, the methods of syntheses of N1-p-chlorophenyl-N5-isopropyldiguanide (I) as a model compound have been investigated. The diguanide (I) was obtained by the condensation ofisopropylguanidine with (1)p-chlorophenylcynamide, (2) S-methyl-p-chlorophenylisothiourea and (3)p-chlorophenylthiourea in the presence of lead acetate. Attempts to prepare the compound (III) by the condensation ofp-chlorophenylisothiocyanate withisopropyl guanidine were unsuccessful.p-Chlorophenyl-isothiocyanate condensed with S-methylisothiourea to yield S-methyl-N1-(p-chloroanilino)-thioformylisothiourea (VI but the methylmercapto group of this compound could not be replaced by either imino orisopropylimino groups.p-Chloraniline condensed withisopersulphocyanic acid to yieldp-chlorophenyldithiobiuret which on boiling with ammonia andisopropylamine in the presence of mercuric oxide furnished respectivelyp-chlorophenyldicyandiamide and N-p-chlorphenyl-N′-isopropyl-N″-cyanoguanidine (X).p-Chlorophenyldithiobiuret on oxidation with iodine yieldedp-chlorophenylthiuret which on treatment with ammonia andisopropylamine in the presence of mercuric oxide furnished respectivelyp-chlorophenyldicyandiamide and N-p-chlorophenyl-N′-isopropyl-N″-cyanguanidine. On treatment withisopropylamine,p-chlorophenylthiuret yielded only N-(p-chlorophenyl)-N′-isopropyl-N″-aminothioformylguanidine (XII), which easily undergoes desulphurisation to yield the compound (X); however, in the presence of alcoholic ammonia and mercuric oxide,p-chlorophenyldicyanamide was obtained.
Reaction of well-characterized vibrational states prepared in the region of three quanta of N–H stretching excitation explores how vibrations with different components along the reaction coordinate influence the bimolecular reaction of Cl atoms with isocyanic acid (HNCO) to form HCl and NCO. Near prolate symmetric top states corresponding to different amounts of a-axis rotation are well separated in energy, and perturbations by background states make each of the eigenstates a different mixture of zero-order states. Molecules in the essentially unperturbed K=1 and 4 states, which are nearly pure N–H stretching excitation, react efficiently, but those in the perturbed states, K=0, 2, and 3, which are a mixture of N–H stretching and lower frequency vibrations react only half as well. Detailed analysis of resolved, perturbed eigenstates for J=6 and 7 of K=3 reveals the relative reactivity of the two interacting zero-order states. The less reactive zero-order state, which most likely contains only two quanta o...
Abstract The oxidation of thiocyanate to polythiocyanic acid by peroxydisulfate was carried out in an aqueous solution at room temperature. The primary step is the decomposition of peroxydisulfate into sulfate-free radicals. At room temperature in the presence of peroxydisulfate as a oxidizing agent, HSCN polymerizes to (HSCN)n. The oxidation of thiocyanate in an aqueous solution is often complicated, but here we obtained the polythiocyanic acid as a major product. The products were characterized by elemental analysis, IR, UV- visible, H-NMR spectroscopy, and X-ray powder diffraction.
This paper deals with some new methods for synthesis of the polymeric semiconductors by conjugated reactions and also with electrophysical properties of the polymers. Elimination of hydrogen halides from α,β-dihalo derivatives by bases (calcium oxide or tertiary amines) yields polymers with conjugated bonds. The reaction proceeds at 200–300°C. under atmospheric or elevated pressures, acetylenes being the intermediates. α,β-Dihalo compounds with calcium carbide above 150°C. produce polyacetylenic copolymers by elimination of two moles of hydrogen halide, also by generating acetylene from calcium carbide. The identical reaction (elimination of water) was observed between carbonyl compounds and calcium carbide. Elimination of water from monoand bifunctional phenols in the presence of zinc chloride under pressure above 200°C. yields polyphenylenes and polyhydroxyphenylenes, dehydrobenzene (benzyne) and hydroxybenzyne being intermediates. The polyhydroxyphenylenes prepared have a degree of polymerization from 4–5 to several thousand and are of interest as intermediates for thermostable resins, inhibitors etc. Linear polycyanamide and polycyanic acid were first prepared by polycondensation of urea with ammonium bicarbonate in the presence of zinc chloride. Analogous polymers were obtained from the ring-opening polymerization of melamine and cyanuric acid. The polymers show good semiconductor and ion-exchange properties. Polycondensation of ketones with ammonium bicarbonate also gave conjugated polymers. Thus, organometallic polymers were prepared from acetyl- and diacetyl ferrocene. We have also studied electrophysical, magnetic, and catalytic properties of the conjugated polymers prepared by the new methods. The electrical conductivity of the best specimens ranged from 10−3 to 10−6 ohm−1 cm.−1; the number of electrons unpaired was 1018–1019 spins/g.
The combination of vibrationally mediated photofragment yield spectroscopy, which excites molecules prepared in single vibrational states, and multiphoton fluorescence spectroscopy, which excites molecules cooled in a supersonic expansion, provides detailed information on the energetics and vibrational structure of the first excited singlet state (S1) of isocyanic acid (HNCO). Dissociation of molecules prepared in individual vibrational states by stimulated Raman excitation probes vibrational levels near the origin of the electronically excited state. Detection of fluorescence from dissociation products formed by multiphoton excitation through S1 of molecules cooled in a supersonic expansion reveals the vibrational structure at higher energies. Both types of spectra show long, prominent progressions in the N–C–O bending vibration built on states with different amounts of N–C stretching excitation and H–N–C bending excitation. Analyzing the spectra locates the origin of the S1 state at 32 449±20 cm−1 and d...
(S)-Hydroxynitrile lyase (Hnl) from the tropical rubber tree Hevea brasiliensis is a 29 kDa single chain protein that catalyses the breakdown or formation of a C--C bond by reversible addition of hydrocyanic acid to aldehydes or ketones. The primary sequence of Hnl has no significant homology to known proteins. Detailed homology investigations employing PROFILESEARCH and secondary structure prediction algorithms suggest that Hnl is a member of the alpha/beta hydrolase fold protein family and contains a catalytic triad as functional residues for catalysis. The significance of predicted catalytic residues was tested and confirmed by site-directed mutagenesis and expression of mutant and wild-type proteins in the yeast, Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Based on these data we suggest a mechanistic model for the (S)-cyanohydrin synthesis catalyzed by hydroxynitrile lyase from Hevea brasiliensis.
Although cyanides and hydrocyanic acid are most toxic, they are nevertheless extensively used in many industries as well as in agriculture. 1 Hydrocyanic acid was reported to be present in cigarette smoke as well. 2 The origin of blood cyanide concentrations may also be from hydrocyanic acid inhalation from the combustion fumes of plastics. 3, 4 Due to its acute toxicity, it is very important to monitor the cyanide concentration using specific and sensitive analytical methods. At present, the well-known Aldridge's method based on the formation of cyanogen bromide and its subsequent reaction with pyridine and benzidine to form a highly colored polymethine dye is still in use for the spectrophotometric determination of low concentrations of cyanide. 5 Its variants involve the use of reagents, such as pyrazalone 6 or barbituric acid, 7 instead of benzidine.
A total of 137 actinomycetes, isolated from 25 different herbal vermicomposts, were characterized for their antagonistic potential against Macrophomina phaseolina by dual-culture assay. Of them, eight most promising isolates (CAI-17, CAI-21, CAI-26, CAI-68, CAI-78, KAI-26, KAI-27 and MMA-32) were characterized for the production of siderophore, chitinase, protease, hydrocyanic acid (HCN), indole acetic acid (IAA) and further evaluated for their antagonistic potential against M. phaseolina by blotterpaper assay and in greenhouse. All the eight isolates produced HCN and IAA, seven produced siderophore (except CAI-78) and protease (except KAI-27) and four produced chitinase (CAI-26, KAI-26, KAI-27 and MMA-32). In the blotter-paper assay, no charcoal-rot infection was observed in KAI-26 and KAI-27-treated sorghum roots, indicating complete inhibition of the pathogen, while the other isolates showed 47 to 88% lesser charcoal-rot infection compared to the control. In the antifungal activity test against M. phaseolina (in greenhouse on sorghum), all the isolates increased in shoot dry mass by 28 to 53% and root dry mass by 5 to 21%, over the control. In order to confirm the plant growth promoting (PGP) traits of the isolates, the green house experiment was repeated, but in the absence of M. phaseolina. The results further confirmed the PGP traits of the isolates as evidenced by 15 to 34% increase in shoot dry mass on six isolates (except CAI-26 and KAI-27), 14 to 57% increase in root dry mass on five isolates (except CAI-68, KAI-26 and KAI-27), 17 to 60% increase in root length on five isolates (except CAI-17, CAI-21 and CAI-68) and 10 to 64% increase in root volume on six isolates (except CAI-17 and CAI-68). Culture filtrate of three potential actinomycetes (CAI-21, CAI-26 and MMA-32) at 0.5% inhibited the growth of M. phaseolina, indicating that the metabolites of these actinomycetes were responsible for the inhibition. The sequences of 16S rDNA gene of the isolates matched with Streptomyces but with different species in BLAST analysis. This study indicates that the selected actinomycetes have the potential for PGP and control of charcoal-rot disease in sorghum.
No attempt will be made to review the extensive literature on the nitrogen metabolism of plants since several excellent reviews are available (2, 20, 46), but attention will be confined to that dealing with the nitrogen nutrition of corn insofar as it is related to this investigation. In spite of the great economic importance of corn surprisingly little has been reported concerning its nitrogen metabolism. As early as 1868 BOUSSINGAULT (cited by CHIB-NALL (2)) reported that asparagine was formed in corn germinated in the dark. More modern reports are those of PRIANISCHNIKOW (26) who showed the necessity of carbohydrates for the formation of asparagine in corn and JODIDI (13) who crystallized asparagine from etiolated corn seedlings. KLEIN and TAUBOCK (16) demonstrated that corn in sterile culture solutions would absorb arginine and would decompose it completely within the plant without urea being one of the products that accumulated. Alkaloids are rarely found in the monocotyledons. Hydrocyanic acid and eyanogenic glycosides rarely occur in corn and when present occur only in traces according to a review of the literature by VAN DER WALT (36). Tests at various times in this laboratory on maturing corn have failed to indicate even traces of cyanide nitrogen. MEvius (19) found that corn supplied with ammonium salts grew well if the culture solution pH was maintained between 3.5 to 7.0, but that above this range the internal reaction became alkaline, excessive quantities of ammonia were absorbed, and growth was depressed. 
MNDO has been employed to study the reaction pathways and to optimize structure of the reactant, product and transition states for the addition reaction of carbene with cyanic acid. The reaction mechanism of carbene with cyanic acid has been determinated by theory.
Abstract. In this study we undertook quantitative source apportionment for 32 volatile organic compounds (VOCs) measured at a suburban site in the densely populated North-West Indo–Gangetic Plain using the US EPA PMF 5.0 Model. Six sources were resolved by the PMF model namely biofuel use and waste disposal , wheat-residue burning , industrial emissions and solvent use , cars , two-wheelers and mixed daytime sources . The biofuel and waste disposal, wheat residue burning, industrial emissions and solvent use, combined traffic sources, mixed daytime sources accounted for 23.2 %, 22.4 %, 11.8 %, 25.1 %, and 15.7 % of the total VOC mass concentration respectively; 18.1 %, 32.4 %, 7.3 %, 21.9 %, and 20.3 % of the total O3 formation potential respectively; and 14.9 %, 13.9 %, 10.1 %, 59.0 %, and 2.2 % of the SOA formation potential, respectively. Further the factors contributed 24.6 %, 8.5 %, 20.1 %, 46.8 %, and 0 %, respectively, to the human class I carcinogen benzene and 18.4 %, 25.4 %, 5.9 %, 13.3 %, and 36.9 %, respectively, to the toxic emerging contaminant isocyanic acid. Evaluation of emission inventories using the in-situ data derived PMF solution revealed that among EDGARv4.2, REASv2.1 and GAINSv5.0, the GAINSv5.0 emission inventory for year 2010, best agreed with the in-situ data derived PMF results for May 2012.
Objective To introduce a poisoning accident caused by clearing up the disuced bloat pool of green plums. Methods In a certain area in Fujian happened a poisoning accident in which many people poisoned. The site of monitoring was carried out immediately. Results The concentrations of hydrocyanic acid, acetonitrile, methane, and carbon dioxide were very high in the air of the pool. Conclusion The main cause of the poisoning was that the cyanogenic glycosides contained in the nucleolus of the green plums. After broken down, the cyanide was released, and then the cyanide synergistic effect with the asphyxiating gas such as methane and carbon dioxide developed also. Treated the sediment and waste water with bleaching powder and lime, cyanide had been eliminated efficiently.
1. ::: ::: The triphenylgermanium and triphenylsilicon hydroperoxides react with isocyanic acid with cleav age of the E-O bond and the formation of the triphenylgermanium and triphenylsilicon isocyanates and hydrogen peroxide. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: Intramolecular rearrangement of the starting molecule also occurs in the case of triphenylsilicon hydroperoxide, with migration of the phenyl group to the hydroperoxide oxygen. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: Hydrogen peroxide reacts with isocyanic acid to give the previously unknown carbamoyl peroxide, which in the solid phase decomposes at 50° to CO2 and the hydroxyurea isomer.
Proximate composition and levels of some anti-nutrient in Urgineaaltissima was investigated. The objective of the study is to investigate the nutritional properties of Urgineaaltissima using standard analytical methods. On dry weight basis, the proximate analyses showed it contained moisture (8.33 ± 0.57%), crude lipid (2.16 ± 0.28%), ash (6.66 ± 0.76%), crude protein (3.70 ± 0.07%), crude fibre (5.66 ± 0.57%), available carbohydrate (81.7±7.90%) and calorific value (361.4Kcal/100g). the results of mineral analysis indicated that the sample contained appreciable amount of mineral elements with potassium as the predominant element in the sample. Anti-nutritional analysis showed the presence of phytate (75.62mg%), oxalate (0.07mg%), saponins (4.60mg%) and hydrocyanic acid (1.22mg%). The values are lower than the reference toxic standard levels. Therefore, Urgineaaltissima could supplement the potential nutritional uses.
The impact of a combined diesel particle filter-deNO(x) system (DPN) on emissions of reactive nitrogen compounds (RNCs) was studied varying the urea feed factor (α), temperature, and residence time, which are key parameters of the deNO(x) process. The DPN consisted of a platinum-coated cordierite filter and a vanadia-based deNO(x) catalyst supporting selective catalytic reduction (SCR) chemistry. Ammonia (NH₃) is produced in situ from thermolysis of urea and hydrolysis of isocyanic acid (HNCO). HNCO and NH₃ are both toxic and highly reactive intermediates. The deNO(x) system was only part-time active in the ISO8178/4 C1cycle. Urea injection was stopped and restarted twice. Mean NO and NO₂ conversion efficiencies were 80%, 95%, 97% and 43%, 87%, 99%, respectively, for α = 0.8, 1.0, and 1.2. HNCO emissions increased from 0.028 g/h engine-out to 0.18, 0.25, and 0.26 g/h at α = 0.8, 1.0, and 1.2, whereas NH₃ emissions increased from <0.045 to 0.12, 1.82, and 12.8 g/h with maxima at highest temperatures and shortest residence times. Most HNCO is released at intermediate residence times (0.2-0.3 s) and temperatures (300-400 °C). Total RNC efficiencies are highest at α = 1.0, when comparable amounts of reduced and oxidized compounds are released. The DPN represents the most advanced system studied so far under the VERT protocol achieving high conversion efficiencies for particles, NO, NO₂, CO, and hydrocarbons. However, we observed a trade-off between deNO(x) efficiency and secondary emissions. Therefore, it is important to adopt such DPN technology to specific application conditions to take advantage of reduced NO(x) and particle emissions while avoiding NH₃ and HNCO slip.
The sources and sinks of isocyanic acid (HNCO), a toxic gas, in indoor environments are largely uncharacterized. In particular, cigarette smoke has been identified as a significant source. In this study, controlled smoking of tobacco cigarettes was investigated in both an environmental chamber and a residence in Toronto, Canada using an acetate-CIMS. The HNCO emission ratio from side-stream cigarette smoke was determined to be 2.7 (±1.1) × 10−3 ppb HNCO/ppb CO. Side-stream smoke from a single cigarette introduced a large pulse of HNCO to the indoor environment, increasing the HNCO mixing ratio by up to a factor of ten from background conditions of 0.15 ppb. Although there was no evidence for photochemical production of HNCO from cigarette smoke in the residence, it was observed in the environmental chamber via oxidation by the hydroxyl radical (1.1 × 107 molecules per cm3), approximately doubling the HNCO mixing ratio after 30 minutes of oxidation. Oxidation of cigarette smoke by O3 (15 ppb = 4.0 × 1017 molecules per cm3) and photo-reaction with indoor fluorescent lights did not produce HNCO. By studying the temporal profiles of both HNCO and CO after smoking, it is inferred that gas-to-surface partitioning of HNCO acts as an indoor loss pathway. Even in the absence of smoking, the indoor HNCO mixing ratios in the Toronto residence were elevated compared to concurrent outdoor measurements by approximately a factor of two.
In the exhaust gas of diesel engines, the urea-water solution (UWS) is injected into the exhaust gas and decomposed into ammonia, isocyanic acid, and water by the thermal decomposition of the urea. The thermolysis rate of the urea has a great influence on the NOx conversion efficiency and the ammonia slip of the SCR catalyst. Therefore, it is essentially required to increase the residence time of the exhaust gas within the exhaust pipe to promote the conversion of the urea to ammonia. In the present work, the two Shapes of the mixing chambers are designed and fabricated to increase the residence time of the exhaust gas. Then, the characteristics of the urea thermolysis for the shapes of the mixing chambers are experimentally examined two range of the velocity (6, 12 ㎧) and temperature (350-500℃) and compared to those without mixing chamber. The ammonia and isocyanic acid are measured at the 5 points along the exhaust pipe from urea injection nozzle using a Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR). The thermal decomposition of the urea is greatly enhanced at low velocities and high temperatures of the exhaust gas. Furthermore, the conversion of the urea to ammonia with the mixing chambers is significantly improved due to the attendant increase in the residence time of the exhaust gas, compared to that without the mixing chambers.
The proximate composition (moisture, ash, crude fat, crude protein, fibre content, and carbohydrate), the mineral compositions (Na, K, P, Ca, Mg, Fe and Zn); and anti-nutrients (oxalate, phytate, hydrocyanic acid and tannin) were determined in Gnetum africanum (Afang) and Heinsia crinita (Atama). The percent crude protein, crude fat, moisture content, carbohydrate values (38.40%, 24.69%, 84.70% and 10 48%) of Heinsia crinita were significantly (p<0.05) higher than values obtained from Gnetum africanum (26.50%, 14.34%, 63.78% and 6.75%) respectively. The concentrations of mineral elements phosphorus, potassium, iron, magnesium and calcium were (1.25%, 1.64%, 3.05%, 2.39% and 2.22%) respectively in Heinsia crinita and (0.14%, 0.10%, 1.15% 0.92% and 0.45%) respectively. The values of mineral elements were significantly higher (p<0.05) higher in Heinsia crinita than Gnetum africanum. The percent hydrogen cyanide, phytate, oxalate, and tannin values (3.51%, 6.12%, 24.4% and 2.80%) of Gnetum africanum were significantly (p<0.05) higher than values obtained from Heinsia crinita (1.20%, 3.51%, 10.12% and 0.78%) respectively The results showed that Heinsia crinita had more nutritive values than Gnetum africanum which are needed for a variety of cellular functions in humans, and which could reduce the problem of protein energy malnutrition (PEM).
The photochemistry of N-hydroxyurea in solid argon has been investigated by FTIR and ab initio calculations. The irradiation of the NH2CONHOH/Ar matrices with the full output of the Xe arc lamp leads to the formation of the HNCO–NH2OH and N2–H2O–CO complexes. For the isocyanic acid–hydroxylamine complex, the spectra prove the existence of the hydrogen bonded structure with the NH group of HNCO attached to the oxygen atom of the NH2OH molecule. Two structures were identified for the nitrogen–water–carbon monoxide complex. In the first one, water is hydrogen bonded to the carbon atom and interacts with the nitrogen atom through van der Waals forces. In the second structure, water serves as a proton donor toward the nitrogen and carbon atoms of N2 and CO molecules, respectively. The identification of the products is confirmed by deuterium substitution and by MP2 calculations of the structure and vibrational spectra of the identified complexes.
Phototransformations of isothiocyanic acid (HNCS) induced by tunable UV laser were studied in low-temperature matrices. Two isomers of the precursor HNCS molecule are formed during UV irradiation of HNCS/Ar and HNCS/N2 samples: thiocyanic acid (HSCN) and isothiofulminic acid (HSNC). In addition, a complex between hydrogen cyanide and a ground state (3P) sulfur atom appears at irradiation with wavelength λ < 290 nm. The vibrational bands of the S⋯HCN complex are observed at 3217.0 and 746.5 cm−1 in Ar and 3223.5 and 764.5/752.0 cm−1 in N2. At the beginning of irradiation S⋯HCN is produced from the HNCS precursor. At longer times the main sources of the complex are HSCN and HSNC species. In solid nitrogen, HCN monomers are observed besides S⋯HCN, indicating efficient escape of atomic sulfur out of the matrix cage occupied by the precursor. Differences in the extent of the observed processes are discussed in relation to the wavelength of the UV radiation applied and the type of matrices. Results of the computational studies on the S⋯HCN geometry and infrared spectra are presented and compared with experimental data.
Departamento de Bioquimica, Biologia Molecular y Genetica, Facultad de Veterinaria, Universidad de Extremadura, Avda de la Universidad s/n, 10071 Caceres, Spain. Cyanide is a toxic nitrogen compound for almost every living organism since it binds irreversibly to haem-proteins, (i.e. cytochromes involved in all known respiratory processes [1]). In the nature, there are bacteria, algae, fungi, and many plants, which are able to produce cyanide. However, the contamination of the environment with cyanide is mainly due to human activities. In this sense, mining, electroplating and jewellery industries generate effluents with a high concentration of cyanide. There are many possible methods for treating wastes containing cyanide. The latest cyanide disposal method is cyanide biodegradation, which is an environmentally friendly and quite inexpensive treatment method [2]. Some microorganisms have been described to be able to degrade cyanide at a neutral pH, but under this condition a high concentration of cyanide evaporates as hydrocyanic acid (HCN), a weak acid with a pK
Groucho Marx's advice to his favoured horse in ‘ A day at the races ’, “Take one of those every half mile and call me if there is any change!” ::: ::: Parkinson's disease is, after Alzheimer's disease, the commonest human neurodegenerative illness but its cause or causes remains largely unknown, save for a few uncommon genetic varieties. Over the years, many clinical and experimental models have been developed attempting to elucidate its pathogenesis, with the hope of more effective treatments.1 The models relating to its pathogenesis fall into three groups: genetic, studied in transgenic mice, pharmacological, such as reserpine, and toxic, first imputed many years ago. ::: ::: Interest in the toxic group dates to at least 1882, with Polchen's description of a parkinsonian syndrome with symmetrical pallidal lesions after ‘Kohlendunst’ (coal gas) poisoning.2 Edsall and Drinker (1919), contributing to a Festschrift for Sir William Osler, detailed the clinical features of chronic manganese poisoning after inhalation, ingestion and exposure to industrial pollution3; Edelman (1921) described similar brain changes after gaseous hydrocyanic acid.4 In 1930, others followed: Buzzo and Guerra after potassium cyanide,5 Negro after carbon disulphide6 and Haurowitz, who appears to be the first to demonstrate focal deposits of copper in what we now call Wilson's disease.7 ::: ::: Today the MPTP (1-methyl-phenyl-1,2,3,6 tetrahydropyridine) model is probably the best known. In 1982, a group of young drug addicts developed an illness closely resembling Parkinson's disease after self-administrating a contaminated synthetic heroin analogue.8 MPTP produced many but not all of the clinical and pathological changes of the idiopathic disease in monkeys and degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in mice but not in rats. Other toxins have included paraquat, a herbicide;9 rotenone, a natural occurring cytotoxic drug employed as an insect and fish poison;10 and isoquinoline derivatives. …
Benzamidoxime and cyanic acid react to give O-carbamoyl-benzamidoxime, and not the oxime of benzoylurea as generally admitted. 3-Phenyl-5-hydroxy-l,2,4-oxa-diazole is quantitatively formed by reacting hydroxylamine on carbamoylbenzami-dine.
Abstract does not appear. First page follows. ::: Introduction ::: When hydrocyanic acid was first used for the fumigation of citrus trees in California ::: in 1886, (1)(2)(3) potassium cyanide, KCN, was the material used. Potassium cyanide continued to be ::: used until 1909, when it was replaced by sodium cyanide, NaCN. Sodium cyanide had ::: been used for industrial purposes, but probably because of the sodium chloride usually ::: present and the consequent decomposition of hydrocyanic acid gas, it was slow in coming ::: into use for plant fumigation. Sodium cyanide was first suggested by Lounsbury(4) for plant fumigation; the effect of the presence of NaCl on the evolution of the ::: gas was indicated by Newell,(5) and Woglum(6) demonstrated its practical use for citrus fumigation when free from the impurity ::: NaCl. In both of these cyanide salts hydrocyanic acid gas is evolved very slowly by ::: simple contact with the atmosphere, so that it is necessary to add sulfuric acid and ::: water to secure a sufficiently rapid generation. ::: Methods of Fumigation ::: The first experiments in hydrocyanic acid fumigation for citrus trees involved the ::: use of a generator outside of the tent. This apparatus soon gave way to earthenware ::: pots which were placed under each tree, and this method of generation was followed ::: without change for twenty-seven years.
Basic information on plant species is important for the improvement of the species. This study was carried out to investigate and understand the biology, utilization and phytochemical composition of Gongronema latifolium which is a spice plant growing in the humid forest vegetation of South- Eastern Nigeria. Results showed that the species had culinary and medicinal properties. G. latifolium has simple and opposite leaves, dehiscent seed pod (follicle), that opens along a single seam. The seeds are flat with white hairy pappus, The flowers are bisexual, regular with pale yellow coloured petals and superior ovary. Phytochemical analysis of the tender fruits and mature leaves of Gongronema latifolium revealed the presence of alkaloids, tannins, saponins, flavonoids, phenols, phytic acid and hydrocyanic acid. The phytochemicals were higher in the fruitscompared to the leaves (P<0.001) except the flavonoids which were higher in the leaves than in the fruits (P<0.001). The presence of these phytochemicals account for the nutriceutical /medicinal properties of Gongronema latifolium.
Abstract The mass spectrometric fragmentation of 1-( N -ethoxycarbonylamino)arylmethylphosphonic monoesters has been investigated under positive ion electrospray ionization conditions. All protonated title compounds predominantly eliminate a phosphite monoester via a four-membered ring hydrogen rearrangement to yield protonated N -ethoxycarbonyl arylmethylimines, which could further undergo four-, six-, or eight-membered ring rearrangements to produce mainly N- substituted/unsubstituted arylmethylimine ions by loss of carbon dioxide, ethene, and cyanic acid alone or together. It is interesting to note that the protonation of 1-( N -ethoxycarbonylamino)arylmethylphosphonic monoesters should be occurred in their arene rings.
Biomass fires impact global atmospheric chemistry. The reactive compounds emitted and formed due to biomass fires drive ozone and organic aerosol formation, affecting both air quality and climate. Direct hydroxyl (OH) Reactivity measurements quantify total gaseous reactive pollutant loadings and comparison with measured compounds yields the fraction of unmeasured compounds. Here, we quantified the magnitude and composition of total OH reactivity in the north-west Indo-Gangetic Plain. More than 120% increase occurred in total OH reactivity (28 s-1 to 64 s-1) and from no missing OH reactivity in the normal summertime air, the missing OH reactivity fraction increased to ~40 % in the post-harvest summertime period influenced by large scale biomass fires highlighting presence of unmeasured compounds. Increased missing OH reactivity between the two summertime periods was associated with increased concentrations of compounds with strong photochemical source such as acetaldehyde, acetone, hydroxyacetone, nitromethane, amides, isocyanic acid and primary emissions of acetonitrile and aromatic compounds. Currently even the most detailed state-of-the art atmospheric chemistry models exclude formamide, acetamide, nitromethane and isocyanic acid and their highly reactive precursor alkylamines (e.g. methylamine, ethylamine, dimethylamine, trimethylamine). For improved understanding of atmospheric chemistry-air quality-climate feedbacks in biomass-fire impacted atmospheric environments, future studies should include these compounds.
36 animal of initial weight 160 to 200 kg and approximately 1 year of age were used to evaluate levels of cassava forage of 0, 15, 30 and 15 (fresh bests) replacing chopped whole sugar cane/urea. The cassava was cut at between 3 and 5 months of age and contained on average 20% DM and 15 8% N x 6.25 tn DM. The sugar cane contained 25.5, DM and the Brix was 12.4 . Both the sugar cane and the cassava forage were chopped to a particle size of approximately 10 mm. The sugar cane mixture with urea (and ammonium sulphate) was allowed to ferment for 24 hr prior to feeding while the cassava was also left 24 hr but separately from the sugar cane. Over the 80 day trial, daily live weight gain was 14 187 105 and 144 g/d for increasing levels of cassava forage (significantly higher for the combined cassava treatments vs the control. P <.03). Voluntary intake was low on all treatments (range 1.72 to 1.92 kg DM/100 kg LW). Studies on the composition of rumen fluid from these and other fistulated animals receiving the same treatments showed uniformly high values f pH (in excess of 6.8) and high levels of rumen ammonia (15 to 22 mg NH /100 ml) which did not vary between treatments. It is concluded that the probable reason for the poorer performance on the cassava forage was the high rumen ammonia levels caused by the high solubility of the cassava protein in combination with urea.. There was no evidence of any possible toxic effect due to hydrocyanic acid.
Subsequently several sulfur bearing molecules have been discovered including the very first identification of methanethiol [3] and thiocyanic acid (HSCN); [4] in the InterStellar Medium (ISM). Ethanethiol was identified in the ISM in 2014 by Kolesniková, Tercerro et al [5] and the presence of larger thiol groups, such as propanethiol (CH3CH2CH2SH) is expected from astrochemical models, although in concentrations that are insufficient for detection using current ground based facilities [6] .
Biomass fires impact global atmospheric chemistry. The reactive compounds emitted and formed due to biomass fires drive ozone and organic aerosol formation, affecting both air quality and climate. Direct hydroxyl (OH) Reactivity measurements quantify total gaseous reactive pollutant loadings and comparison with measured compounds yields the fraction of unmeasured compounds. Here, we quantified the magnitude and composition of total OH reactivity in the north-west Indo-Gangetic Plain. More than 120% increase occurred in total OH reactivity (28 s −1 to 64 s −1 ) and from no missing OH reactivity in the normal summertime air, the missing OH reactivity fraction increased to ~40 % in the post-harvest summertime period influenced by large scale biomass fires highlighting presence of unmeasured compounds. Increased missing OH reactivity between the two summertime periods was associated with increased concentrations of compounds with strong photochemical source such as acetaldehyde, acetone, hydroxyacetone, nitromethane, amides, isocyanic acid and primary emissions of acetonitrile and aromatic compounds. Currently even the most detailed state-of-the art atmospheric chemistry models exclude formamide, acetamide, nitromethane and isocyanic acid and their highly reactive precursor alkylamines (e.g. methylamine, ethylamine, dimethylamine, trimethylamine). For improved understanding of atmospheric chemistry-air quality-climate feedbacks in biomass-fire impacted atmospheric environments, future studies should include these compounds.
Inadequate processing could result to toxicity from the residual hydrogen cyanide released from the cyanogenisis. Various ailments from cyanide toxicity have been reported in human among which include: vomiting, diarrhea, dizziness, headache, stomach pains, rapid respiration, drop in blood pressure, mental confusion, rapid pulse rate, twitching, convulsion and tropical ataxic neuropathy [1] [8]- [10] . The cyanide content of cassava differs with a number of conditions such as: species varieties, harvesting time and season. Sweet varieties of cassava (low cyanide content) have been reported to contain as much as 15 -50 mg/kg hydrogen cyanide on fresh weight basis and can be processed by roasting, boiling or baking whereas the bitter varieties (high cyanide content) require more extensive processing such as heap fermentation [1] . However, during seasons of drought, cyanide content of both sweet and bitter varieties is increased markedly [11] . Generally, values from 15 to 400 mg/kg of hydrocyanic acid in cassava roots on a fresh weight basis have been reported in literature but approximately 50 to 60 mg of free cyanide from cassava and its processed products constitute a lethal dose for an adult man [1] .
The invention relates to a method for thermally after-burning the waste gas flows developing during the production of acrolein in a gas phase process and for thermally after-burning the waste gas flows developing during the production of hydrocyanic acid in a gas phase process, characterized in that the waste gas flows from the production of acrolein and the waste gas flows from the production of hydrocyanic acid are supplied to a joint thermal after-burning process.
2 Abstract: The Pulp of Gardenia aqualla fruit was analyzed for nutritional and anti-nutritional composition. The results obtained were moisture content (80.33%), ash (5.00%), crude lipid (1.70%), crude protein (3.85%), crude fibre (trace), available carbohydrate (89.45%) and the energy value (388.50 kcal/100 g). Elemental analyses shows that Sodium is the most abundant element (203.33 mg/100 g) while manganese is th e least (0.2 mg/100 g), Lead was also detected (0.37 mg/100 g). The anti-nutritional parameters analyzed include; Phytate (26.57 mg/100 g), Soluble Oxalate (1.70 mg/100 g), Saponin (1.50 mg/100 g), Nitrate (0.38 mg/100 g) while Hydrocyanic acid content are (1.14 mg/100 g). The antinutrients to nutrients ratio indicate the bioavailability of some important minerals except in the case of (Phytate)(Fe) and (Phytate)(Ca) in the pulp which are found to reach the critical levels and therefore are expected to hinder Iron and Calcium bioavailability in the pulp.
We report the first gas-phase Raman spectra of the N–C–O stretching fundamentals in isocyanic acid. Using stimulated Raman excitation to prepare vibrationally excited molecules, we record spectra via two different techniques, photoacoustic Raman spectroscopy and action spectroscopy. The former detects the sound wave generated as the Stokes laser tunes through resonances and deposits heat in the gas sample. The latter detects transitions by photodissociating the vibrationally excited states prepared in the vibrational excitation step and detecting the photofragments by laser induced fluorescence. In analogy with the stretching modes in CO2, the N–C–O symmetric stretch (ν3) Raman fundamental in HNCO is strong while the antisymmetric stretch (ν2) is weak, although neither is symmetry forbidden. Both vibrational states are strongly perturbed. The symmetric stretch interacts with combination states that contain two quanta of bending excitation, and the antisymmetric stretch interacts with several different com...
A very simple, sensitive and specific method for the ::: determination of hydrocyanic acid in air and water is described. ::: Hydrocyanic acid is collected in dilute sodium hydroxide solution and then ::: reacted at pH 7 and 100 °C with picric acid solution, forming ::: 2,6-dinitro-5-hydroxy-4-hydroxylamino-1,3-dicyanobenzene. The absorbance of ::: the red solution is read at 505 nm. The color system obeys Beer’s law ::: in the range 0.1–10 mg m−3 hydrocyanic acid ::: (0.2–20 μg g−1). The collection efficiency of the ::: absorbing solution and the molar absorptivity (1.42 × 103 ::: l mol−1 cm−1) were evaluated. All other ::: important analytical parameters were studied and the method was applied to ::: the determination of hydrocyanic acid in air samples and cigarette ::: smoke.
The analyses of antinutritional and mineral composition of the flesh of yellow fruits variety of Terminal catappa using standard methods were conducted. The results (mg/100g dry sample) are as follows: Total oxalate 1.90, soluble oxalate 1.62, tannin 16.28, phytate 2872.67, saponin 1.495, nitrate 0.64, hydrocyanic acid 4.19, Ca 143.30, Mg 48.50 and Zn 1.42. Bioavailability studies revealed that the oxalate content of the fruit have no effect on Ca availability as Oxalate]/[Ca] and [Oxalate]/[Ca + Mg] are below critical level of 2.5. However, phytate affect both the Ca and Zn bioavailability with [Phytate]/[Ca] and [Ca][Phytate]/[Zn] above critical level of 0.2 and 0.5 respectively. Keywords : Anti-nutritional, Terminal catappa, fruits, minerals, bioavailability.
The cyclopentadienyl metal compounds, cp2Ti(NCO)2, cp2Ti(NCS)2, cp2Zr- (NCO)2, and cp2Zr(NCS)2, have been prepared and the modes of attachment of the cyanato and thiocyanato ligands determined by infrared spectroscopy. All are bonded to the metals through nitrogen and are therefore isocyanato and isothiocyanato derivatives. Cp2Zr(NCO)2 is sensitive to moisture which converts it into the bridged oxide cp2Zr(NCO)-O-Zr(NCO)cp2. This reaction can be reversed with anhydrous cyanic acid.
An experiment suitable for students who have taken either organic chemistry or organic and physical chemistry is described. The simple preparation and molecular rearrangement of thiocyanic acid, 2-methylene-1,3-propanediyl ester to 1-propene, (3-isothiocyanato-2-isothiocyanatomethyl) occurs readily in the temperature range of 65–90°C and progress of the reaction is readily tracked by proton NMR. The buildup and decline of the intermediate, thiocyanic acid, 2-(isothiocyanatomethyl)-2-propenyl ester, is readily seen. Start and stop methods for conducting the reaction in simple apparatus external to the NMR instrument are described thus making the experiment suitable for several students to do in a limited period of time without tying up the NMR for long periods. A controlled temperature probe for the NMR instrument is not needed. Advanced students can determine rate constants for the reactions, compute activation parameters, and observe solvent effects.
Abstract The hypothesis is advanced that the natural polymerization of isoprene in plant cells is induced and accelerated by an oxidation which in turn is brought about through the agency of a system of enzymes. Experiments in a laboratory in the tropics show that the serum of latex has an accelerating action on the polymerization of emulsions of isoprene in water containing hydrogen peroxide, and that this effect is nullified if the action of the enzymes is arrested by an acid or by a poison such as hydrocyanic acid.
Summary In this study 17 glossy sorghum genotypes were evaluated in pots filled with white perlite to determine their resistance to salinity stress. We used 0.25 M sodium chloride solution for salinity treatments and distilled water for the control for a period of 25 d after emergence. The variables measured were: seedling height, root length, root, shoot and total dry mass of the plants. Highly significant differences were found among genotypes and among treatments for all these traits. Tolerance indice were calculated, and on the basis of these results, the genotypes IS-22201 and IS-4473 were selected as resistant and the genotypes IS-5643 and IS-1096 as susceptibles to salinity stress at the seedling stage. In the second phase the four genotypes selected were evaluated with salinity treatments of 0, 0.10, 0.15, 0.20 and 0.25 M sodium chloride. In this experiment the fluctuations of total chlorophyll, hydrocyanic acid, and epicuticular wax in the leaves, and proline content from the root, were determined. There was a marked relation between concentrations of these compounds and the salinity levels used.
Abstract NO reduction activity with acetaldehyde over BaY is low in a dry feed, but significantly higher in the presence of water vapor. Aldol condensation of acetaldehyde takes place, polymerization of the resulting crotonaldehyde deactivates the catalyst. Water vapor prevents the formation of large amounts of carbonaceous deposits, either by suppressing the dehydration of aldol to crotonadehyde or by interacting with carbonaceous deposits or their precursors, transforming them to CO, CO2 and H2. Temperature-programmed oxidation (TPO) shows much lower coke formation after tests in the presence of water vapor. TPD–MS data show that nitromethane, a possible intermediate in the NOx reduction process, reacts with water on BaY forming NH3, COx and isocyanic acid HNCO. NOx conversion over BaY reaches values near 90% at 200 °C and a GHSV of 30,000 h−1 if the NOx initially contains both NO and NO2. No transition metal is involved in the reduction of NOx to NH3 and N2 over BaY.
Registered Canadian cultivars of flax, and laboratory-prepared and commercially obtained samples of linseed meal (LM), were used to determine extract viscosity and mucilage, trypsin inhibitors and hydrocyanic acid (HCN) concentrations. The mucilage readily leached out from the seed coat (hull) fragments soaked in water, leaving behind pentagon-shaped cells that could be seen clearly in scanning electron micrographs. Extract viscosity significantly varied in the laboratory-prepared (23–48 cS) and commercially obtained (30–68 cS) samples of LM and may be used to obtain an indirect, qualitative estimate of flax mucilage. Mucilage was extracted from whole seed in 5.0–5.3% yields and contained 20–24% protein (about 10% ash and 30% total carbohydrates). Laboratory-prepared LM (raw) contained 42–51 units of trypsin inhibitor activity, commercially obtained samples, 14–37 units, and raw rapeseed and soybean meals, 99 and 1650 units, respectively. Picric acid tests (qualitative) showed only traces of HCN in ten cultivars of freshly ground flax. The acid silver nitrate titration procedure measured HCN quantitatively, but showed its presence only in three of the five cultivars investigated. HCN was conveniently measured by a colorimetric procedure (barbituric acidpyridine reaction), which may be used to screen flax cultivars. HCN content of flax was significantly influenced by environments (growth location and season) and, to a less extent, by cultivar.
The shapes of macromolecules and their complexes with small molecules are often determined by extended networks of hydrogen bonds. Here, for the first time, we provide a detailed description of a cooperative pair of hydrogen bonds to an individual molecule of urea. The structure and properties of a gas phase complex formed between urea and isocyanic acid are characterised through microwave spectroscopy and ab initio calculations at the CCSD(T)(F12*)/aug-cc-pVTZ level.
(57) Abstract: containing phosphorus-containing compound and essentially adiponitrile and in the presence of a catalyst comprising a phosphorus-containing compound, starting from a mixture obtained by reacting butadiene with hydrocyanic acid, 6-amino in capronitrile and methods of producing hexamethylenediamine simultaneously, (1) a phosphorus-containing compound in the mixture reduces the weight proportion, calculated as phosphorus, (2) partial product mixture, in the presence of a catalyst hydrogenated, alpha, .omega.-amino nitrile is formed, (3) a method, characterized in that from the mixture, separating off 6-aminocapronitrile and hexamethylenediamine.
Cyanide exposure is still relatively common. Apart from sodium nitroprusside therapy (hypotensive agent) and ingestion of cyanide salts or cyanide producing chemicals (acetonitrile) in the context of suicidal or homicidal attempts, the main sources of exposure is smoke from fires or cigarette smoking, accidental inhalation of hydrocyanic acid in metals or plastics industries, and various types of foods such as cassava, cherry, or almond (1) .
Industrial activities can generate significant loads of pollutants that are released into water sources. Gold mining uses highly toxic compounds such as cyanide [1] which is considered potentially lethal to any ecosystem. In contact with water it produces hydrocyanic acid, a compound that causes serious illnesses in humans and animals, and degradation of soil fertility. The use of cyanide in gold How to cite: Arana, J., González, S., Navarrete, L., and Caicedo, O., Luffa Cylindrica as a natural adsorbent of cyanide ion in aqueous medium. DYNA 84(201), pp. 210-215, 2017. mining is an important cause of biodiversity depletion in developing countries such as Colombia [2] .
The term cyanogenesis describes the release of hydrocyanic acid (HCN), which occurs when the tissues of some plant species are damaged. The first report of cyanogenesis in Trifolium repens (white clover) was by Mirande (1912) and this was shortly followed by a paper which demonstrated that the species was polymorphic for the character, with both cyanogenic and acyanogenic plants occurring in the same population (Armstrong et at., 1913) . Since these reports, this polymorphism has been the subject of a large number of ecological studies. Field studies, dating back to 1954, have investigated the distribution of the two morphs and both field and experimental studies have investigated the nature of the selective forces responsible for maintaining the polymorphism in this species. This experimental system provides one of the few examples of a simply inherited, biochemical difference that is known in higher plants. Modified dihybrid Mendelian segregation ratios, in progeny scored for the production of HCN, were demonstrated in the 1940s. More recently the morphs have been characterized biochemically and molecular studies, which will elucidate the nature of the allelic differences responsible for the polymorphism, are in progress. These studies provide information at the molecular level about genetic differences which have been subject to selection and which may be complex.
Pearl millet (Pennisetum glaucum L.), a highly allogamous cereal, growing in extreme environments of world's poor countries is the sixth most important food-grain crop following rice, wheat, maize, barley and sorghum. It is a monocot, cross-pollinated species belonging to the family Poaceae with small diploid genome (2n = 14) and a haploid genome size of 2450 Mbp (Martel et al. 1997) . It has the highest levels of forbearance to drought among tropical cereals (Serraj et al. 2005 ). The crop is gluten free and contains a high amount of antioxidants and fiber along with a low glycemic index which makes it an excellent source of energy and a nutritious food for the overall health of the people (Nambiar et al. 2011) . Furthermore, its vegetative matter provides excellent forage because of its high protein and low hydrocyanic acid content. Pearl millet grain is also gaining importance as a cheap source of starch for making of fine quality breweries and also in ethanol production as biofuel (Wu et al. 2006) . DM caused by an obligate oomycete parasite Sclerospora graminicola is economically the most devastating pearl millet disease, curtailing yields by 80% in India and several countries in Africa (Thakur et al. 2008) . Initial symptoms of the disease are leaf chlorosis and stunting, later 'green ear' develops due to the transformation of floral parts into leafy structures. Although DM has been recognized as a potentially insidious disease of pearl millet since the early part of the twentieth century, it attracted relatively little deliberation until the late 1960s (Singh et al. 1993) . Since then, progress has been made in understanding the biology of the pathogen, epidemiology of the disease, and its control (Sharathchandra et al. 2004; Jogaiah et al. 2007; Jogaiah et al. 2016; Boregowda et al. 2017; Siddaiah et al. 2017) . Later breeding for resistance to this disease was accorded the highest priority among the biotic stress factors as the disease reached to epidemic levels in India during the mid1970s to 1980s when only a few single-cross hybrids were cultivated on a large scale (Hash 1997 . As new virulent pathotypes continue to evolve under changing climatic and environmental conditions, for example new pathotypes Sg 445, Sg 526 and Sg 519 were found to be evolved as most virulent for A1 zone of India (Sharma et al. 2014) ; therefore there is an urgent need to develop varieties with durable resistance to the disease. Molecular markers have been used for improving disease resistance in crop breeding programs as they stimulate selection gain. They act as experimental probes or tags that are phenotypically neutral and are developmentally and environmentally stable. In fact, availability of markers with a linkage as close as possible to genes of high impact is most critical point for successful MAS. Among several types of molecular markers, SSRs represent short tandem repeat sequences which are abundant in a genome, locus-specific, codominant, highly polymorphic and amenable for high throughput analysis. These markers have been used extensively in the construction and saturation of linkage maps in many crops like rice, wheat, barley, maize etc. (Temnykh et al. 2000; Sharopova et al. 2002; Torada et al. 2006; Varshney et al. 2007 ). In addition to SSRs, several other DNA marker techniques like RFLP, Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA (RAPD), Amplified Fragment Length Polymorphism (AFLP), Sequence Characterized Amplified Regions (SCAR), Single Nucleotide Polymorphism (SNP) markers and their many variants have been developed and used for diversity analysis, linkage mapping and marker-assisted selection (MAS) in pearl millet (Bhattacharjee et al. 2002 , Bertin et al. 2005 , Chandra-Shekara et al. 2007 , Kapila et al. 2008 , Allinne et al. 2008 , Sudisha et al. 2009 , Kholová et al. 2010 , Bashir et al. 2015 . Allouis et al. (2001) had constructed a bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) library using nuclear DNA from pearl millet, and used it as a resource for the isolation of microsatellite sequences. Qi et al. (2004) generated 44 SSR markers from a (CA)n-enriched small-insert genomic library. Thudi et al. (2010) comparatively assessed PCR-based marker systems in pearl millet. In astudy conducted by Supriya et al. (2011) , genomic representation from 95 diverse genotypes of pearl millet was used to develop a Diversity Arrays Technology (DArT) array with circa 7000 clones following PstI/BanII complexity reduction. This array was used to genotype a set of 24 diverse pearl millet inbreds and 574 polymorphic DArT markers were identified. Nienty nine new EST-SSR markers were developed by Rajaram et al. (2013) .
There are many routes that may yield renewable urea. Most attractively, it is secreted in the urine of mammals and all other animals, e.g. fish, amphibians, zooplankton and bacteria [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] , except birds and saurian reptiles. It is approximately in 2 wt% concentration in human urine, representing a molar ratio of water to carbon of 159. Plants also synthesise urea, where it is believed to be a nitrogen store [8] . Urea is biodegradable and long-term human exposure studies indicated it is non-allergenic, having no side effects [9] . Its biodegradation is rapid upon contact with soil and water. Using urine diversion toilets [10, 11] , the collected undiluted-urine could be stabilised with a mild acid to prevent its decomposition to ammonia [10] , and the urea water solution concentrated by evaporation using lower grade waste heat. This would aim to reach conditions where the urea would precipitate, be collected, stored or transported in dry crystal form. Alternatively, it would be allowed to reach the optimum water to carbon ratio for maximum hydrogen yield. The storage and transport of urea requires very dry, ambient temperature conditions. At present, urea is a widely available commodity with commercial production plants operating the well-established reaction of ammonia (NH 3 ) with carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) via ammonium carbamate at elevated temperature and pressure, a process which has been suggested as a means of recycling the greenhouse gas CO 2 [12] . CO 2 + 2NH 3 → NH 2 COONH 4 → (NH 2 ) 2 CO + H 2 O ∆H°2 98 = -102 kJ mol -1 The global demand for urea as slow release fertiliser is growing, with an expected rise of 30.2 Mt from 150Mt in 2008 to 180Mt in 2012 [13] . It is also increasingly used to control nitrogen oxides emissions in the atmosphere via selective catalytic reduction (SCR) [14] [15] [16] . The investigation of the SCR process has spurred most of the research into the mechanism of urea decomposition and hydrolysis, as summarised below. Urea (NH 2 ) 2 CO yields 1.5 mol of H 2 through the thermal decomposition of the pure, crystalline compound into N 2 and H 2 via the intermediates ammonia and HCNO (isocyanic acid). In the presence of steam, hydrolysis of HCNO generates one additional mol of NH 3 which decomposes to a further 1.5 mol of H 2 . The full reaction of urea with water therefore can yield a maximum of 3 mol of H 2 per mol of urea using a stoichiometric molar steam to carbon ratio (S:C) of 1.
Whereas the endothermic decomposition of pure crystalline urea to ammonia and isocyanic acid has been shown to occur without catalyst at moderate temperatures [17] , and the exothermic catalytic hydrolysis of isocyanic acid proceeds at temperatures as low as 150 °C [14] , the thermal decomposition (or 'cracking') of ammonia into N 2 and H 2 requires temperatures exceeding 450 °C for significant conversion in the presence of a catalyst.
Cyanic acid hydrolysis:
Biomass burning (BB) emissions are composed of a complex mixture of gases and particles that may directly and/or indirectly affect both climate and air quality (Jaffe and Wigder, 2012; Sommers et al., 2014) . Emissions include greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide (CO 2 ), methane (CH 4 ) , and ni-trous oxide (N 2 O); carcinogens such as formaldehyde and benzene, and other components potentially harmful to human health including particulate matter, carbon monoxide (CO) and isocyanic acid (HNCO) (Crutzen and Andreae, 1990; Hegg et al., 1990; Andreae and Merlet, 2001; Demirbas and Demirbas, 2009; Estrellan and Iino, 2010; Roberts et al., 2010 Roberts et al., , 2011 Sommers et al., 2014) . The co-emission of nitrogen oxides (NO x = NO + NO 2 ) and reactive volatile organic compounds (VOCs, also known as non-methane organic compounds) from combustion of biomass may degrade local and regional air quality by the photochemical formation of tropospheric ozone (O 3 ), a hazardous air pollutant, and secondary organic aerosol (SOA) (Alvarado et al., 2015) . This work characterizes primary biomass burning emissions of organic and inorganic gases of fuels common to the US and compares the relative impacts on regional air quality as it relates to potential O 3 and SOA formation.
In order to provide a database for selecting and utilizing interspecific hybrids between male sterile line Z3A,V4A of Sorghum and 4 kinds of Sorghum sudanense(Piper) Stapf,the fertility,cytogenetic characteristics and breeding potential were analyzed by measuring fixed plants,staining pollen and making chromosome slides.Results showed that the growth potentiality of hybrid F1 was much stronger than its parents.Its average plant height was 350～386 cm.The growing and developing period of hybrid F1 was 132～134 days for the late-maturing type.The average tillering number per plant was 6.24～6.82 implying paternal inheritance.The ear type was intermediate for their parents.Both spikelet number per spike and spike density of hybrid F1 were superior compared with their male parent.Hydrocyanic acid(ranged from 9.38 to 42.01 mg/kg) in hybrids F1 plants with 140cm height were lower than the standard control.The brix in main stem(ranged from 8.89% to 9.46%) at the flowering stage indicated maternal inheritance.Pollen fertility rate was above 94%,with seed setting percentage between 73.22% and 76.62%.Its average chromosome pairing configurations in pollen mother cells at metaphase I(PMCMⅠ) was 2n=2x=20(10Ⅱ).The chromosome pairing behavior was regular.The frequency of rod bivalent was obviously higher(6.702～7.215)than that of their parents(1.834～3.506) indicating different genetic components of parents.The fresh yield of hybrids F1 was higher than their male parent(Sorghum sudanense).Results show that Z3A×white hull Sudangrass,V4A×black hull Sorghum sudanense and Z3A×black hull Sorghum sudanense are great potential breeding combinations.
This thesis focuses on methods for quantification by liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry (LC/MS) of specific biomarkers for internal dose of chemicals which induce toxicity through their electrophilic reactivity. In vivo such compounds are short-lived, and could feasibly be measured as their reaction products (adducts) with biomacromolecules. Analysis by MS methods of stable adducts offers the specificity and accuracy required to generate data on internal dose useful in risk estimation.The primary aim was to develop a method for quantification by LC/MS of bulky adducts to serum albumin (SA) from polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, using the genotoxic diolepoxide (DE) of benzo[a]pyrene (BP) as a model. A method for analysis of the BPDE adducts to His146 in SA was developed which is robust, easy-to-use, has good reproducibility and which reached a high sensitivity. A method for quantification of BPDE adducts to N2-deoxyguanosine (dG) in DNA by LC/MS was also established.In mice exposed to BP, adducts to SA and DNA from stereoisomers of BPDE were identified and quantified. The adduct level was shown to be >400 times higher in DNA than in SA, which from an in vitro study could be concluded to mainly depend on a large difference in the rates of adduct formation to His in SA and to dG in DNA. BPDE adduct levels to SA and DNA, and a biomarker of genotoxic effect (frequency of micronuclei), were compared in BP-exposed mice. The results were used to evaluate how these methods could be used in procedures for cancer risk estimation.An LC/MS method for analysis of valine hydantoins (VH) formed as adducts from isocyanates to N-termini in haemoglobin was established. VH, formed from urea/isocyanic acid, was investigated in mice as a potential biomarker of renal failure and for dose adjustment during treatment with a radioactive cytostatic drug. The kidney dysfunction was not severe enough to give a significant increase of VH in the experiment.
Cassava (Manihot esculenta Crantz) is a widely consumed food in the tropics that naturally contains cyanogenic glycosides (cyanogens, mainly composed of linamarin, acetone cyanohydrin, and hydrocyanic acid). If cassava is not adequately processed to reduce the level of cyanogens prior to consumption, these compounds can lead to the formation of hydrocyanic acid in the gut. Exposure to hydrocyanic acid can cause symptoms ranging from vomiting and abdominal pain to coma and death. In 2008, a survey of ready-to-eat (RTE) cassava-based snack foods was undertaken to determine levels of cyanogens measured as total hydrocyanic acid. This survey was undertaken in response to the New South Wales Food Authority being alerted to the detection of elevated levels of cyanogens in an RTE cassava-based snack food. This survey took 374 samples of RTE cassava chips available in the Australian marketplace. Significant variation in the levels of total hydrocyanic acid were observed in the 317 samples testing positive for cyanogens, with levels ranging from 13 to 165 mg of HCN equivalents per kg (mean value, 64.2 mg of HCN eq/kg for positive samples). The results from this survey serve as a timely warning for manufacturers of RTE cassava chips and other cassava-based snack foods to ensure there is tight control over the levels of cyanogens in the cassava ingredient. Evidence from this survey contributed to an amendment to the Australia New Zealand Food Standards Code, which now prescribes a maximum level for hydrocyanic acid in RTE cassava chips of 10 mg of HCN eq/kg, which aligns with the Codex Alimentarius Commission international standard for edible cassava flour.
The decomposition of hydrogen peroxide vapour has been investigated at low pressures (5 to 6 mm.) in the temperature range 50° to 420 °C., for the purpose of determining the effect of the nature and treatment of the active surfaces. The reaction was followed in an all-glass apparatus and, except in one case, with one-litre round flasks as reaction vessels. Soft glass, Pyrex, quartz, and metallized surfaces variously treated were used. In most cases the decomposition was found to be mainly of the first order but the rates varied markedly from one vessel to another, even with vessels made of the same type of glass. On a quartz surface the decomposition was preceded by an induction period at low temperatures. Fusing the glass vessels slowed the reaction considerably and increased its apparent activation energy; this effect was destroyed by acid washing. Attempts to poison the surface with hydrocyanic acid gave no noticeable result. The marked importance of surface effects at all temperatures is considered as...
Alteration in hydrocyanic acid potential (HCN-p) of the forage is one of the important objectives in sudangrass [Sorghum sudanense (Piper) Stapf] breeding programs. The effectiveness of recurrent phenotypic selection for increasing or decreasing HCN-p in sudangrass was evaluated in two cycles of individual plant selection in the cultivar 'Greenleaf'. In cycle 1, HCNP means of the high and low populations were higher and lower, respectively, than for Greenleaf, but only the low-HCN-p population was significantly different from Greenleaf. In cycle 2, mean HCN-p values of both populations differed significantly from Greenleaf. The average realized heritability for the two cycles was 0.40 while broad-sense heritability estimates averaged 0.86. After two cycles of selection, the low and highHCN-p populations differed from Greenleaf by about 17 and 30%, respectively. Additional index words: Prussic acid, Dhurrin, Forage quality, Heritability, Sorghum sudanense. SU D A N G R A S S [Sorghum sudanense (Piper) Stapf] and sorghum-sudangrass hybrids are used extensively to provide supplementary feed to animals as pasture or greenchop. Precautions in managing the crop are necessary to prevent animal losses due to prussic acid (hydrocyanic acid) poisoning. All known sudangrasses and sorghums [SO bicolor (L.) Moench] contain dhurrin [(S)-phydroxymandelonitrile (J-D-glucopyranoside] which yields hydrocyanic acid when hydrolyzed enzymatically in disrupted plant tissues or in the rumen of consuming anim';lls. Breed.ing sudangrasses with lowered hydrocyanic acid potential (HCN-p) would reduce the danger of hydrocyanic acid poisoning, and permit greater flexibility in the management of this crop. Also, sudangrasses with reduced HCN-p would be useful in the development of sorghum-sudangrass hybrids with lowered HCN-p. 'Contribution from USDA-ARS and the Nebraska Agric. Exp. Stn., ~incoln. Published as Paper No. 6173, Journal Series, Nebraska Agric. Exp. Stn. Received 18 Feb. 1981. The work reported was conducted under Nebraska Agric. Exp. Stn. Projects 12-088 and 12-114. 'Supervisory research geneticist, USDA-ARS; George Holmes professor of Agronomy, Univ. of Nebraska; and research agronomist, USDA-ARS, Lincoln, NE 68583, respectively. GORZ ET AL.: HYDROCYANIC ACID POTENTIAL IN SUDANGRASS 323 Breeding for lower HCN-p in sudangrass was facilitated by the recent development of a simple, rapid, nondestructive spectrophotometric procedure (6). This procedure involves the assay of individual first leaves from 7-day-old seedlings grown under controlled conditions. Following completion of the assay, selected seedlings can be transplanted to the field or greenhouse for the production of self or cross-pollinated seed for use in the next cycle of selection. In a review of studies of the inheritance of cyanogenesis in sudangrass and sorghum, Nass (9) reported that dominant or partially dominant factors were involved in the genetic control of both high and low HCN-p. Most studies suggested multigenic inheritance although one or two major genes also were hypothesized. Hogg and Ahlgren (8) evaluated 175 inbred lines ranging from low to high in HCN content during a 3-year period and reported that HCN content of the lines was stable over years. They also reported that low-HCN strains could be developed by crossing low-HCN inbred lines. Barnett and Caviness (1) reported broad-sense heritability estimates of 0.41 and 0.68 for HCN production in populations derived from two sorghum X sudangrass crosses. Sorghum is classified as a predominately self-pollinated crop with outcrossing averaging 6% (10). The outcrossing percentage of sudangrass is usually higher, but reported values vary quite widely. Garber and Atwood (5) observed 76.4, 18.2, and 34.4% cross-pollination in Pennsylvania for the years 1941, 1942, and 1943, respectively, while Hogg and Ahlgren (8) reported in 1943 that cross-pollination in Wisconsin ranged from 4.5 to 10%. Thus, extensive cross-pollination is possible, but the percentage that occurs in a specific seed field is apparently dependent upon the location, environmental factors, and the type of sudangrass being grown. Recent work by Foster et al. (4) demonstrated positive results for bi-directional mass selection in a grain sorghum population. Thus, selection based on population improvement techniques, developed for use with cross-pollinated crops, may be successfully used with crops such as sorghum that have a very low percentage of cross pollination. 'Greenleaf sudangrass is used extensively as the male parent in commercial production of sorghum-sudangrass hybrids (7). In 1977, a program of recurrent selection for low and high HCN-p in Greenleaf sudangrass was initiated at the Nebraska Station. The objectives of this research were to evaluate the effectiveness of recurrent selection for increasing or decreasing HCN-p in sudangrass populations, and to develop a reselected Greenleaf strain with lower HCN-p than the parent. MATERIALS AND METHODS All HCN-p values in this study were obtained by use of the spectrophotometric procedure (6). In this procedure, first-leaf samples from week-old seedlings were weighed, and dhurrin was extracted and hydrolyzed by autoclaving the samples in water. Aliquots of the extracts were then diluted in base, and absorbance was read at 330 nm, the absorption maximum of p-hydroxybenzaldehyde. HCN-p values were derived from the 330 nm absorbance (A330) readings by simple calculations (6). The initial population consisted of 184 seedlings of the cultivar Greenleaf grown from Kansas foundation seed. From this initial population, 19, 17, and 17 seedlings were selected to represent the lowest, intermediate, and highest HCN-p levels in further studies. The selected seedlings were transplanted to the field, heads were bagged prior to anthesis, and selfed seed was harvested. Five plants from each HCN-p group with adequate supplies of selfed seed were selected for further study. Seven replications of the seed from the 15 selected plants were planted for assay of HCN-po A total of 1405 S, seedlings were assayed with a range of 81 to 110 per line. This phase of the study will be referred to as cycle O. For the next step, cycle 1, only those seedlings with the highest and lowest levels of HCN-p were selected from the total of 1405 S, seedlings obtained from the 15 original plants. Selections were made across all replications and without regard to the original HCN-p group (high, medium, or low) from which the seedling originated. Thus, the 26 seedlings selected for lowHCN-p included 14, 9, and 3 seedlings from the low, medium, and high-HCN-p groups, respectively. Similarly, the 23 seedlings selected for high-HCN-p included 9, 5, and 9 seedlings from the low, medium, and high-HCN-p groups, respectively. The low and high-HCN-p populations were transplanted to separate field isolations in 1978, with plants on 61-cm centers. Open-pollinated seed was harvested from individual plants. Three replications of 10 seedlings each from each line (i.e., from each parent plant) were assayed for HCN-p. Greenleaf was included in each replication as a control. Plants for the next cycle of selection (cycle 2) were selected from individual seedlings of the 8 lines whose mean HCN-p was lowest among the 26 low-HCN-p lines, and from the highest 8 lines among the 23 high-HCN-p lines. The selected low and high-HCN-p populations included 54 and 56 plants, respectively. Each population was transplanted to a separate field isolation in 1979, with plants randomized on 107-cm centers. A severe infestation of chinch bugs [Blissus leucopterus leucopterus (Say)] destroyed some plants in the low-HCN-p isolation; seed was produced on only 33 of these plants. Open-pollinated seed was harvested from individual plants, and three replications of 10 seedlings from each plant that produced sufficient seed (31 plants from the low-HCN-p isolation and 55 from the highHCN-p isolation) were assayed for HCN-p. Greenleaf was included in each replication as a check. The breeding procedures used and the time period covered by each cycle are summarized in Table 1. A narrow-sense heritability estimate was obtained by the regression of offspring produced by selfing on their parents in cycle O. In this situation, bop, the regression of offspring on parents, was used as the heritability estimate (H,,). Realized heritability estimates (Hr) (3) were also determined for gcles 0, 1, ~d 2 using thefollowing equation: Hr = CX.,h Xo,)/(Xp" X p,) where the X's are means and the subscripts, 0, p, h, and 1 are offspring, parent, high and low, respectively. Variance components from the analyses of the replicated tests of the progeny of each cycle were used to calculate the ratio: Hv = a a'e)where a a the genetic and environmental components of variance, respectively. This ratio was difficult to interpret for this study because it was unknown whether the parents were homozygous or heterozygous individuals or whether the progenies were the products of crossing, selfing, or both. It is an estimate, however, of the variance among lines that is due to genotypic differences and as such can be used as a broad-sense heritability estimate. Gain from selection (Gs) was calculated both as a deviation from Greenleaf (G",) and as a deviation percentage from Greenleaf (G,p) for cycles 1 and 2. The equations used were as follows: (a) G'd for low HCN-p = (X-J X~. (b) G'd for high HCN-p = QCOh -_XgL (c) G,p for low HCN-p = Ph X~/~ X 100. (d) G,p for high HCN-p = (X"h Xg)/Xg X 100. 324 CROP SCIENCE, VOL. 22, MARCH-ApRIL 1982 Table 1. Means, standard deviations, and ranges for HCN·p of parents and their progenies for two cycles of divergent selection for HCN·p in Greenleaf sudangrass.
Sorghum-Sudan grass hybrid containing high hydrocyanic acid content can cause hydrocyanic acid poisoning to the livestock and limit the popularization of this forage crop. Molecular markers associated with low hydrocyanic acid content can speed up the process of identification of genotypes with low hydrocyanic acid content. In the present study, 11 polymorphic SSR primers were screened and used for bulked segregant analysis and single marker analysis. Three SSR markers Xtxp7 230 , Xtxp7 375 and Bnlg667 960 associated with low hydrocyanic acid content were rapidly identified by BSA. In single marker analysis, six markers Xtxp7230, Xtxp7375, Bnlg667960, Xtxp67-11, Xtxp295-7 and Xtxp12-9 were linked to low hydrocyanic acid content, which explained the proportion of phenotypic variation from 7.6 % to 41.2 %. The markers identified by BSA were also verified by single marker analysis. The three SSR marker bands were then cloned and sequenced for sequence homology analysis in NCBI. It is the first report on the development of molecular markers associated with low hydrocyanic acid content in sorghum- Sudan grass hybrid. These markers will be useful for genetic improvement of low hydrocyanic acid sorghum-Sudan grass hybrid by marker-assisted breeding.
Abstract In situ Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy has been used to observe the species deposited on Co-ZSM5 during the decomposition of nitromethane. At 553 K deactivation commences after 60 min. This is accompanied by the formation of bands due to NCO species between 2150 and 2300 cm −1 and the sudden development of a very strong band at 1662 cm −1 . The latter band can be assigned to the s-triazine compound, melamine, and/or derivatives of it, which cause deactivation by blocking zeolite channels. The most likely chemistry is an initial dehydration of nitromethane to isocyanic acid (HNCO) which forms melamine by reaction with ammonia derived by hydrolysis of HNCO. Cyanuric acid, the cyclic trimer of HNCO, may be an intermediate in the process.
Amarogentin is an efficacious Chinese herbal medicine and a component of the bitter apricot kernel. It is commonly used as an expectorant and supplementary anti-cancer drug. β-Glucosidase is an enzyme that hydrolyzes the glycosidic bond between aryl and saccharide groups to release glucose. Upon their interaction, β-glucosidase catalyzes amarogentin to produce considerable amounts of hydrocyanic acid, which inhibits cytochrome C oxidase, the terminal enzyme in the mitochondrial respiration chain, and suspends adenosine triphosphate synthesis, resulting in cell death. Hydrocyanic acid is a cell-cycle-stage-nonspecific agent that kills cancer cells. Thus, β-glucosidase can be coupled with a tumor-specific monoclonal antibody. β-Glucosidase can combine with cancer-cell-surface antigens and specifically convert amarogentin to an active drug that acts on cancer cells and the surrounding antibodies to achieve a killing effect. β-Glucosidase is injected intravenously and recognizes cancer-cell-surface antigens with the help of an antibody. The prodrug amarogentin is infused after β-glucosidase has reached the target position. Coupling of cell membrane peptides with β-glucosidase allows the enzyme to penetrate capillary endothelial cells and clear extracellular deep solid tumors to kill the cells therein. The Chinese medicine amarogentin and β-glucosidase will become an important treatment for various tumors when an appropriate monoclonal antibody is developed.
Identification and monitoring of gaseous species released during thermal decomposition of pure thiourea, (NH2)2C=S in argon, helium and air atmosphere have been carried out by both online coupled TG-FTIR and simultaneous TG/DTA-MS apparatuses manufactured by TA Instruments (USA). In both inert atmospheres and air between 182 and 240°C the main gaseous products of thiourea are ammonia (NH3) and carbon disulfide (CS2), whilst in flowing air sulphur dioxide (SO2) and carbonyl sulphide (COS) as gas phase oxidation products of CS2, and in addition hydrogen cyanide (HCN) also occur, which are detected by both FTIR spectroscopic and mass spectrometric EGA methods. Some evolution of isothiocyanic acid (HNCS) and cyanamide (NH2CN) vapours have also observed mainly by EGA-FTIR, and largely depending on the experimental conditions. HNCS is hardly identified by mass spectrometry. Any evolution of H2S has not been detected at any stage of thiourea degradation by either of the two methods. The exothermic heat effect of gas phase oxidation process of CS2 partially compensates the endothermicity of the corresponding degradation step producing CS2.
The degradation behaviour of poly (methacrylie acid) and its ammonium, alkali metal, alkaline earth metal and zinc salts is discussed. As in the case of polymers of many of the methacrylate esters, depolymerisation to monomer is an important reaction for the metal salt polymers, but there is an alternative route to the metal carbonate and cyclic and acyclic ketones, as well as several secondary reactions. Important factors are the volatility of the monomer (and isobutyrate, which is also formed) and the thermal stability of the metal carbonate. A reaction scheme is proposed for the metal salts. Ammonium polymethacrylate is unique amongst these salt polymers in degrading to give ammonia, water and cyclic structures in the polymer backbone which degrade at higher temperatures to give chain fragments plus isocyanic acid, carbon monoxide and methane.
Detailed identification and monitoring of gaseous species released during thermal decomposition of two thiourea (tu) complexes of CuCl, one of them, Cu(tu)Cl 1/2H2O (1) poor, while the other, Cu(tu)3Cl (2) rich in thiourea, have been carried out in flowing air atmosphere up to 800 °C by both coupled TG-EGA-FTIR and simultaneous TG/DTA-EGA-MS. The thermal decomposition of 1, prepared actually from CuCl, has shown evolution of similar gas mixture and dynamics by TG/DTA-MS, as had been measured with TG-FTIR and published earlier, except that no evolution of ammonia has been detected, at all. Probably, the intense co-evolution of acidic vapors (HCl and SO2) has prevented NH3 to reach the ionization chamber of the mass spectrometer. While in case of anhydrous 2, Cu(tu)3Cl rich in thiourea, between 180 and 240 °C, the main gaseous decomposition products are ammonia (NH3), carbon disulfide (CS2), and isothiocyanic acid (HNCS). At about 250 °C, gas-phase exothermic oxidation of CS2 and HNCS vapors occurs, resulting in a sudden release of sulfur dioxide (SO2), carbonyl sulfide (COS), and hydrogen cyanide (HCN). Also a definite evolution of cyanamide (H2NCN) is observed just above 250 °C. Between 350 and 500 °C, a more intense oxidation process of both organic condensed residues and copper(I) sulfides into copper(II)-oxo-sulfates appears, which is also indicated by intense evolution of CO2, SO2, and H2NCN (and/or HNCO). Above 700 °C, the oxo-sulfates start to decompose resulting in repeated evolution of SO2. All species identified by FTIR gas cell have been also confirmed by mass spectrometry. Evolution of HCl from Cu(tu)3Cl (2) has been detected by either of the two EGA methods.
DNA’s role in heritage and coding protein was described long time ago. The presence of Uracil in DNA gives rise to nucleic bases misparings which can be cytotoxic and mutagenic for the cell. It is therefore important to understand the chemical reactivity of nucleobases, including Uracil. Studying the reactivity in the gas phase allows to get rid of environmental effects, giving direct access to important intrinsic properties of the molecule of interest. In this context, we coupled Tandem Mass Spectrometry Experiments (MS/MS) to mixed Quantum-Classical (QM+MM) Molecular Dynamic Simulations of collisions between protonated Uracil and Argon. ::: Experiments: MS/MS spectra of protonated Uracil, 2-13C-uracil; 3-15N-uracil and 1,3-15N2-213C-uracil generated by electrospray ionization from aqueous solutions, were recorded at different collision energies, ranging from 5 to 30 eV, using an Applied Biosystems/MDS Sciex API2000 triple-quadrupole instrument. ::: Simulations : Chemical dynamic simulations were performed using VENUS coupled with MOPAC or with Gaussian09 for six Uracil’s protonated forms, at AM1, PM3 and B3LYP/6-31g levels of theory. Thousands of trajectories were performed to have statistically valid results. ::: We chose 300K as initial temperature for the ions. Energies for the normal modes of vibration were selected from a 300 K Boltzmann distribution. Random orientations in Euler angles between Argon and protonated Uracil were sampled to account for random orientations of collisions. ::: We achieved a deeper understanding of the fragmentation mechanisms occurring during Collision Induced Dissociation (CID) of protonated Uracil generated by electrospray (ESI). We successfully characterized the main fragmentation paths: ammonia loss (m/z 96), water loss (m/z 95) and cyanic acid loss (m/z 70) as well as other minor paths. The latter corresponds to a retro-Diels-Alder reaction, which has been proposed in the literature, but has recently been questioned. We obtained perfect agreement for fragmentation mechanisms obtained during simulations and those deduced from isotopic labeling. ::: RRKM approach was used to stimate rate constants for different paths and understand the long time scale reactivity. ::: We have already successfully applied this approach to the study of disaccharides, and our new good dynamic results open the door to the possibility of studying the reactivity of other systems, such as Uracil with metals and other DNA building blocks. Our research is moving forward this direction.
The thermal decomposition of hydrazodicarbonamide in solid state has been studied. Thermal characteristics were examined by DTA and TG. The decomposition products were identified and estimated by pyrolysis gas chromatography, infrared and mass spectrometries. The decomposition proceeds initially in the solid phase and then in melts as the products increase during the decomposition. Overall reaction was endothermic. Main products were urazole and ammonia. Among others were small amount of nitrogen, isocyanic acid, carbon monoxide, biuret, semicarbazide, urea and negligible amounts of ammonium isocyanate. The kinetics of decomposition was evaluated by the gas evolution method over the range between 238°C and 248°C. The reaction was autocatalytic and its process was expressed by Prout-Tompkins equation. The apparent activation energy and the pre-exponential factor were 40.0 kcal/mol and 3.3 X 10" sec-1, respectively. On the bases of these results, following reaction mechanism has been proposed; the production of urazole by ammonium release from substrate and the subsequent reaction involving formed radicals.
This study investigates the effect of double- or single-stage distillation and different alcohol content in ‘hearts’ (middle fractions) on the distribution of aroma volatiles and undesirable compounds (methanol, hydrocyanic acid, ethyl carbamate) during distillation of plum brandies. Irrespective of the distillation method used, the first fractions (‘heads’) included mainly aliphatic aldehydes, acetals and esters as well as higher alcohols (1-propanol, 2-methyl-1-propanol, 1-butanol, 2-methyl-1-butanol and 3-methyl-1-butanol). Furfural, 1-hexanol, benzyl alcohol, 2-phenylethanol and ethyl carbamate occurred in relatively high concentrations in the ‘tail’ fractions. Increasing the concentration of alcohol in the heart fractions from 70 to 90% v/v resulted in a gradual decrease in the concentration of all detected volatile compounds. Compared with single-stage distillation, double distillation produced heart fractions with lower concentration of acetaldehyde and benzaldehyde and with higher contents of furfural and esters, such as isobutyl acetate and isoamyl acetate. There was a statistically significant increase in the amounts of methanol and ethyl carbamate obtained from double distillation compared with similar fractions derived from the single-stage process. However, in all fractions these compounds occurred in concentrations much lower than the limits specified by EU regulations. The heart fraction from the double-stage process with 83% v/v alcohol content received the best scores for aroma and flavour. Copyright © 2017 The Institute of Brewing & Distilling
The reactions of hydrocyanic acid with both excited and ground-state atoms have been examined in low-temperature matrices. The major products of HCN + O({sup 1}D{sub 2}) reaction were isocyanic acid (HNCO) and cyanic acid (HOCN), confirming predictions of the intermediacy of HNCO and oxazirine on the pathway to the final products seen in the gas-phase reaction. In contrast, no evidence was found for reaction between HCN and O({sup 3}P) atoms in the matrix.
Recently, Liu et al. reported that nitrogen groups can be introduced onto various carbon blacks, mesoporous carbons, and activated carbons through simple low-temperature annealing with urea (soft nitriding) [33] . Thermolysis of urea is a metal-free process that produces isocyanic acid and ammonia, which are thought to react mostly with oxygenated surface sites on carbon materials, resulting in the incorporation of ureido groups and ketimine functionalities, respectively. While N-doping of carbon materials through soft nitriding was found to enable immobilization of highly electrocatalytically active metal nanoparticles through reduction of metal precursor ions via sodium borohydride [33, 34] , the electrocatalytic behavior of the soft-nitrided carbon materials themselves towards hydrogen peroxide reduction has not yet been reported.
