Muconate cycloisomerases are known to catalyze the reversible conversion of 2-chloro-cis,cis-muconate by 1,4- and 3,6-cycloisomerization into (4S)-(+)-2-chloro- and (4R/5S)-(+)-5-chloromuconolactone. 2-Chloromuconolactone is transformed by muconolactone isomerase with concomitant dechlorination and decarboxylation into the antibiotic protoanemonin. The low k(cat) for this compound compared to that for 5-chloromuconolactone suggests that protoanemonin formation is of minor importance. However, since 2-chloromuconolactone is the initially predominant product of 2-chloromuconate cycloisomerization, significant amounts of protoanemonin were formed in reaction mixtures containing large amounts of muconolactone isomerase and small amounts of muconate cycloisomerase. Such enzyme ratios resemble those observed in cell extracts of benzoate-grown cells of Ralstonia eutropha JMP134. In contrast, cis-dienelactone was the predominant product formed by enzyme preparations, in which muconolactone isomerase was in vitro rate limiting. In reaction mixtures containing chloromuconate cycloisomerase and muconolactone isomerase, only minute amounts of protoanemonin were detected, indicating that only small amounts of 2-chloromuconolactone were formed by cycloisomerization and that chloromuconate cycloisomerase actually preferentially catalyzes a 3,6-cycloisomerization.
The stereochemistry of the four stereoforms of 5-chloro-3-methylmuconolactones could be deduced from NMR and stability data, and from the comparison with authentic (4R, 5S)-5-chloromuconolactone. Muconolactone isomerase of Alcaligenes eutrophus JMP 134 was shown to catalyze syn -elimination of hydrogen chloride from (4R, 5S)-5-chloro-3-methylmuconolactone, (4R, 5S)-5-chloro-3-methyl-muconolactone and (4R, 5S)-5-chloromuconolactone to form 3-methyl-cis -dienelactone, 3-methyl-trans -dienelactone and a 3:1 mixture of cis- and trans-dienelactone, respectively. 3-methyl-trans-dienelactone was a substrate of pJP4-encoded dienelactone hydrolase of A. eutrophus JMP 134, whereas 3-methyl-cis-dienelactone transformation was negligible indicating a restricted substrate specificity of this enzyme. Both substrates were transformed into 3-methylmaleylacetate which in turn was a substrate for maleylacetate reductase. This compound was shown to possess a cyclic structure (4-hydroxy-3-methylmuconolactone) under acidic conditions.
The enzyme phenol hydroxylase catalyzes the first reaction of phenol degradation in aerobic microorganisms (7, 12, 15) . catechol, the product of this reaction, is a central intermediate in the degradation pathways of various aromatic compounds. it is metabolized by different strains via either the ortho-or the meta-fission pathway depending on the catechol dioxygenase specificity (1). The cycloisomerases catalyze the conversion of cis,cis-muconate to (+)-muconolactone in the orthomechanism of phenol degradation (10, 25).
The enzyme phenol hydroxylase catalyzes the first reaction of phenol degradation in aerobic microorganisms (7, 12, 15) . catechol, the product of this reaction, is a central intermediate in the degradation pathways of various aromatic compounds. it is metabolized by different strains via either the ortho-or the meta-fission pathway depending on the catechol dioxygenase specificity (1) . The cycloisomerases catalyze the conversion of cis,cis-muconate to (+)-muconolactone in the orthomechanism of phenol degradation (10, 25) .
Muconate cycloisomerases are known to catalyze the reversible conversion of 2-chloro-cis,cis-muconate by 1,4-and 3,6-cycloisomerization into (4S)-(؉)-2-chloro-and (4R/5S)-(؉)-5-chloromuconolactone. 2-Chloromuconolactone is transformed by muconolactone isomerase with concomitant dechlorination and decarboxylation into the antibiotic protoanemonin. The low k cat for this compound compared to that for 5-chloromuconolactone suggests that protoanemonin formation is of minor importance. However, since 2-chloromuconolactone is the initially predominant product of 2-chloromuconate cycloisomerization, significant amounts of protoanemonin were formed in reaction mixtures containing large amounts of muconolactone isomerase and small amounts of muconate cycloisomerase. Such enzyme ratios resemble those observed in cell extracts of benzoate-grown cells of Ralstonia eutropha JMP134. In contrast, cis-dienelactone was the predominant product formed by enzyme preparations, in which muconolactone isomerase was in vitro rate limiting. In reaction mixtures containing chloromuconate cycloisomerase and muconolactone isomerase, only minute amounts of protoanemonin were detected, indicating that only small amounts of 2-chloromuconolactone were formed by cycloisomerization and that chloromuconate cycloisomerase actually preferentially catalyzes a 3,6-cycloisomerization.
In a previous communication (Rann & Cain, 1969) we described some aspects of the regulation of the 3-oxoadipate pathway in Nocardia opaca. This organism, which has a versatile nutritional spectrum, can metabolize a wide range of aromatic precursors through the protocatechuate and catechol branches of this pathway. The inducer for the protocatechuate-branch enzymes (protocatechuate oxygenase, 3-carboxymuconate sycloisomerase, 4-carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase and 3-oxoadipate enol lactone hydrolase), all of which are co-ordinately induced, was 3-oxoadipate. Similarly, there was a co-ordinate pattern of induction in the catechol branch of the pathway between muconolactone isomerase and enol lactone hydrolase. Catechol 1 ,Zoxygenase and cis,cis-muconate cycloisomerase, although both induced by cis,cis-muconate, were independently regulated. The apparent anomaly of enol lactone hydrolase being a member of two distinct, co-ordinately induced blocks was resolved when it was observed that N. opaca formed two isoenzymes, one characteristically associated with the catechol branch and the other with the protocatechuate branch. The phenotypic result of this regulation pattern is that growth of the bacterium upon a catechol precursor such as benzoate results in the appearance of all four enzymes of the protocatechuate branch although under these circumstances they are entirely without any physiological function. These regulation patterns have subsequently been confirmed by using inducer analogues such as adipate and 3-methylglutarate and by examination of the enzyme contents of mutant strains of N. opaca blocked in each step of both pathways. In one particular mutant which failed to grow on both benzoate or protocatechuate, more than one enzyme activity was affected. Protocatechuate oxygenase was present at only 16%, 3-carboxymuconate cycloisomerase at only 0.26 %, 4carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase at 65 % and 3-oxoadipyl-CoA transferase at 93 ”/, of the amounts found in a revertant to wild-phenotype of this mutant. No serious genetic analyses have ever been carried out in this genus but these results are consistent with this mutant carrying a polarity mutation in an operon controlling the co-ordinate synthesis of the enzymes of the protocatechuate branch. On this assumption, the order of genes in this operon would be: operator; cycloisomerase; oxygenase; decarboxylase. The transferase, which does not form part of the co-ordinate block, was independently regulated (D. L. Rann, unpublished work), so would be expected to exhibit no effect of the putative polarity mutation and show the virtually unchanged enzyme content that was observed. An identical regulatory system was found in Nocardiu globerulu N.C.T.B. 9158, in Nocardia cauiue A.T.T.C. 14629 and in N. cauiae strain R1315 (Tsukamura, 1969), in Nocurdia erythropolis, in Nocardia corallina and in Mycobacterium rhodocrous strains N.C.I.B. 9259 and N55, which Goodfellow (1971) has classified as Nocardiu rzibra on the basis of an extensive numerical taxonomy study. These species share many phenotypic traits and are quite similar in their DNA base composition so that this particular control mechanism for aromatic catabolism may have had a single evolutionary origin within this group of organisms (Stanier, 1968). One nocardioform organism of uncertain taxonomic position, Jenseniu canicvuria (Bissett & Moore, 1950), has recently been classified as a mating type of N. erythropolis by Adams et al. (1970) and within N. rubra by Goodfellow (1971). It showed some
The metabolic pathway of phenol was examined in the yeast strains of Rhodotorula (R.) rubra IFO 0892 and 1101. Changes in concentrations of phenol, phenol metabolites and dissolved organic carbon (DOC) in a medium were determined during incubation of phenol-grown cells with a phenol solution. A decrease in DOC concentration indicated that phenol was used as a carbon source. The phenol metabolites were separated and identified using high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS). For HPLC analysis of β-ketoadipic acid, 2, 4-dinitrophenylhydrazone derivative was prepared. This analysis is very selective and sensitive. For GC/MS analysis, metabolites in the cultured broth were extracted with ethyl acetate and trimethylsilylated using N, o-bis(trimethylsilyl)acetoamide. Formation of muconolactone and β-ketoadipate enol-lactone from phenol was studied using whole cells. β-Ketoadipic acid was produced from muconolactone by the crude cell-free extract of R. rubra IFO 0892 and 1101. From the results in this study, a metabolic sequence for phenol degradation is proposed. Phenol may be hydroxylated to form catechol prior to ring cleavage, and catechol may be further oxidized to cis, cis-muconic acid, muconolactone, β-ketoadipate enol-lactone and β-ketoadipic acid. The catechol branch in the, β-ketoadipate pathway may exist in R. rubra and this catechol may be oxidized by the ortho type of ring fission.
The inducible enzyme catalysing the conversion of cis,cis-muconate to (+)-muconolactone was purified 300-fold from the yeast Trichosporon cutaneum, grown on phenol. The enzyme has a sharp pH optimum at pH 6.6. It reacts also with several monohalogen derivatives and with one monomethyl derivative of cis,cis-muconate, but not with cis,trans- or trans,trans-muconate or 3-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate. In contrast with the corresponding enzymes in bacteria, the yeast enzyme does not require added divalent metal ions for activity and is not inhibited by EDTA. The purified enzyme can be resolved into two peaks by isoelectric focusing. The two forms have pI 4.58 (cis,cis-muconate cyclase I) and pI 4.74 (cis, cis-muconate cyclase II), respectively. Each of these is homogenous on polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis in the absence or presence of sodium dodecyl sulphate. The two enzyme forms have the same molecular weight (50000) as determined by gel filtration and by sodium dodecyl sulphate/polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis. They have the same Km value (25 microM) for cis,cis-muconate. They differ with respect to their content of free thiol groups. cis, cis-Muconate cyclase I contains one thiol group, essential for activity, but relatively stable upon storage. cis, cis-Muconate cyclase II contains two thiol groups that are readily oxidized during storage with concomitant loss of activity.
3-Carboxy-cis,cis-muconate lactonizing enzymes (CMLEs), the key enzymes in the protocatechuate branch of the β-ketoadipate pathway in microorganisms, catalyze the conversion of 3-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate to muconolactones. We have determined the crystal structure of the prokaryotic Pseudomonas putida CMLE (PpCMLE) at 2.6 A resolution. PpCMLE is a homotetramer and belongs to the fumarase class II superfamily. The active site of PpCMLE is formed largely by three regions, which are moderately conserved in the fumarase class II superfamily, from three respective monomers. It has been proposed that residue His141, which is highly conserved in all fumarase class II enzymes and forms a charge relay with residue Glu275 (both His141 and Glu275 are in adenylosuccinate lyase numbering), acts as the general base in most fumarase class II superfamily members. However, this charge relay pair is broken in PpCMLE. The residues corresponding to His141 and Glu275 are Trp153 and Ala289, respectively, in PpCMLE. The structur...
Abstract Muconolactone isomerase from Pseudomonas putida crystallizes from sodium sulfate solution in space group P2 1 ( a = 65.84 A , b = 105.70 A , c = 77.20 A , β = 90.5 ° ) with ten 11,000 M r subunits per asymmetric unit. The 7 A resolution crystal structure was solved by single isomorphous replacement followed by 10-fold symmetry averaging. The decameric enzyme has an uncommon non-crystallographic 5-fold symmetry axis and a large cavity in its center.
Stanier (1968) compared the pathways employed for the catabolism of aromatic compounds and pointed out that the pseudomonads could be divided into two distinct groups. Pseudonzonas aeruginosa, P. putida, P. stutzeri and P. cepacia all metabolize benzoate and p-OH benzoate via the P-ketoadipate pathway while P. acidovorans and P. testosteroni utilize the a-ketoacid pathway. However, there are differences in detail in the enzymes involved (Kemp & Hegeman, 1968) . Two of the enzymes of the catechol branch of the P-ketoadipate pathway were tested for structural homology by examining the immunological cross-reactions to antisera prepared against the muconate-lactonizing enzyme and the muconolactone isomerase purified from P. putida (Ornston, 1966). Extracts of all strains of P. putida gave crossreactions with the antiserum to the enzymes purified from P. putida ~9 0 indicating almost complete homology. Extracts of strains of P. aeruginosa gave strong cross-reactions but the marked spurring with the P. putida enzymes indicated only partial homology between the enzymes from these two species. Weaker cross reactions were observed with some strains of P. JEuorescens and P. stutzeri and no cross-reactions were detected with P. cepacia strains.
A halobenzene-degrading bacterium, Burkholderia fungorum FLU100 (DSM 23736), was isolated due to its outstanding trait to degrade fluorobenzene. Besides fluorobenzene, it utilizes, even in random mixtures, chlorobenzene, bromobenzene, iodobenzene, benzene, and toluene as sole sources of carbon and energy. FLU100 mineralizes mono-halogenated benzenes almost stoichiometrically (according to halide balance); after a lag phase, it also degrades 3-fluorophenol and 3-chlorophenol completely. The FLU100-derived transposon Tn5-mutant FLU100-P14R22 revealed 3-halocatechol to be a central metabolite of this new halobenzene degradation pathway. In FLU100, halocatechols are-as expected-strictly subject to ortho-cleavage of the catechol ring, with meta-cleavage never been observed. The strain is able to completely mineralize 3-fluorocatechol, the principal catecholic metabolite being nearly exclusively formed from fluorobenzene. The temporarily excreted 2-fluoromuconate formed thereof in turn is subsequently metabolized completely. This important finding falsifies the customary opinion of the persistence of 2-fluoromuconate valid up to now. The degradation of 4-fluorocatechol, however, being a very minor intermediate in FLU100, is substantially slower and incomplete and leads to the accumulation of uncharacterized derivatives of muconic acid and muconolactone in the medium. This branch therefore does not seem to be productive. To our knowledge, this represents the first example of the complete metabolism of 3-fluorocatechol via 2-fluoromuconate, a metabolite hitherto described as a dead-end metabolite in fluoroaromatic degradation.
Abstract A p-cresol degrading bacterial strain was isolated from coke oven wastewater of an iron and steel plant industry. The isolated strain was identified as Pseudomonas citronellolis NS1 by 16S rRNA gene sequencing method. The isolated Pseudomonas species could degrade 1200 mg l−1 of p-cresol completely in 40 h. Further, at 1200 mg l−1 of initial p-cresol more than 95.4% TOC and 98.5% toxicity removal were also achieved by the microbial culture. The metabolic pathway of the Pseudomonas species was investigated using HPLC, UV visible spectra, FT-IR and GC–MS analysis. The major metabolic intermediate products identified in the bacterial culture were 4-methyl catechol, protocatechuic acid, 3-oxadipic acid, 4- carboxy muconolactone, 2-hydroxy muconicsemialdehyde and maleic acid. Based on the identified metabolic intermediate products, a tentative new meta-cleavage 3-oxoadipate pathway has been proposed. The biodegradation of p-cresol by the culture followed first order kinetic. The biokinetic parameters associated with biodegradation of p-cresol have been estimated as follow; μ = 0.353 h−1, Ksi = 464 mg l−1, Ks = 99.5 mg l−1. It was observed that, when the initial concentrations of p-cresol exceeded more than 1000 mg l−1, about 70% of the total substrate carbon was utilized towards microbial maintenance energy.
Abstract Muconolactone isomerase and γ-carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase, two Pseudomonas putida enzymes that catalyze analogous biochemical reactions in the dissimilation of aromatic compounds, were compared structurally and chemically. A revised procedure for the purification of the decarboxylase gave higher yields of homogeneous protein in less time than previously published methods. Earlier investigations with sodium dodecyl sulfate gel electrophoresis had indicated that the subunit sizes of the isomerase and the decarboxylase were 11 300 and 13 000, respectively. In the present study sedimentation equilibrium ultracentrifugation of the isomerase at pH 7.0 gave an apparent molecular weight of 111 000, suggesting that the protein is a decamer or a dodecamer. Ultracentrifugation of the decarboxylase under similar conditions indicated that the protein is a hexamer of 82 000 daltons. Dimethyl suberimidate cross-linking of the lysines of the isomerase created two species of cross-linked proteins as revealed by sodium dodecyl sulfate gel electrophoresis; a major species of 62 000–65 000 and a minor amount of a 124 000 molecular weight species. The results suggest that the oligomer of the isomerase may be composed of two stacked discs of pentamers or hexamers. In contrast, the evidence indicated no significant intra-oligomeric cross-linking of the lysines of the decarboxylase. The sequence of the first twelve amino terminal amino acids of the decarboxylase was determined by dansyl-Edman degradation. Comparison of the amino terminal amino acid sequence of the decarboxylase with that of the isomerase demonstrated that these portions of the two proteins have no more than three identical residues in the first twelve positions. The results indicate that either the two proteins had an independent evolutionary origin or they have diverged considerably since a common ancestry.
The β-ketoadipate pathway is a major pathway involved in the catabolism of the aromatic compounds in microbes. The recent progress in genome sequencing has led to a rapid accumulation of genes from the β-ketoadipate pathway in the available genetic database, yet the functions of these genes remain uncharacterized. In this study, the protocatechuate branch of the β-ketoadipate pathway of Rhodococcus jostii was reconstituted in vitro. Analysis of the reaction products of PcaHG, PcaB, and PcaL was achieved by high-performance liquid chromatography. These reaction products, β-ketoadipate enol-lactone, 3-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate, γ-carboxymuconolactone, muconolactone, and β-ketoadipate, were further characterized using LC-MS and nuclear magnetic resonance. In addition, the in vitro reaction of PcaL, a bidomain protein consisting of γ-carboxy-muconolactone decarboxylase and β-ketoadipate enol-lactone hydrolase activities, was demonstrated for the first time. This work provides a basis for analyzing the catalyti...
The present study describes the 19F nuclear magnetic resonance analysis of the conversion of 3-halocatechols to lactones by purified chlorocatechol 1,2-dioxygenase (ClcA2), chloromuconate cycloisomerase (ClcB2), and chloromuconolactone dehalogenase (ClcF) from Rhodococcus opacus 1cp grown on 2-chlorophenol. The 3-halocatechol substrates were produced from the corresponding 2-halophenols by either phenol hydroxylase from Trichosporon cutaneum or 2-hydroxybiphenyl 3-mono-oxygenase from Pseudomonas azelaica. Several fluoromuconates resulting from intradiol ring cleavage by ClcA2 were identified. ClcB2 converted 2-fluoromuconate to 5-fluoromuconolactone and 2-chloro-4-fluoromuconate to 2-chloro-4-fluoromuconolactone. Especially the cycloisomerization of 2-fluoromuconate is a new observation. ClcF catalyzed the dehalogenation of 5-fluoromuconolactone to cis-dienelactone. The ClcB2 and ClcF-mediated reactions are in line with the recent finding of a second cluster of chlorocatechol catabolic genes in R. opacus 1cp which provides a new route for the microbial dehalogenation of 3-chlorocatechol.
The metabolic control of the protocatechuate branch of the 3-oxoadipate pathway in Rhodotorula mucilaginosa was examined and the specific inducers identified using appropriately blocked mutants. Three successive inductive events permitted the synthesis of the five enzymes converting p-hydroxybenzoate to 3-oxoadipyl-CoA: the independent induction of 4-hydroxybenzoate 3-monooxygenase by its own specific substrate, the independent induction of protocatechuate 3,4-dioxygenase by either protocatechuate or p-hydroxybenzoate, and finally the co-ordinate induction of 3-carboxymuconate cyclase, 3-carboxymuconolactone hydrolase and 3-oxoadipate CoA-transferase by either protocatechuate or p-hydroxybenzoate. Evidence is presented which suggests that R. mucilaginosa is unable to metabolize catechol or its usual precursors, and the significance of this is discussed in relation to control of the protocatechuate branch and the differing control mechanisms governing the synthesis of enzymes of the 3-oxoadipate pathway in other fungi and bacteria.
Pseudomonas putida utilizes the catBC operon, which encodes cis,cis-muconate lactonizing enzyme I (MLEI; EC 5.5.1.1) and muconolactone isomerase (MI; EC 5.3.3.4), for growth on benzoate as a sole carbon source. This operon is positively regulated, and the promoter is located 64 bp upstream of the catB translational start site. Using site-specific mutagenesis, we identified nucleotides that influenced the induction of this promoter. Promoter activity was monitored with the promoter probe vector pKT240. Transcription of mRNA from mutant promoters was determined by primer extension mapping. Comparison of the initiation start site of mutant promoters with that of the wild-type promoter identified a single functional promoter.
Trichosporon cutaneum was grown with phenol or resorcinol as the carbon source. The formation of beta-ketoadipate from phenol, catechol, and resorcinol was shown by a manometric method using antipyrine and also by its isolation and crystallization. Metabolism of phenol begins with o-hydroxylation. This is followed by ortho-ring fission, lactonization to muconolactone, and delactonization to beta-ketoadipate. No meta-ring fission could be demonstrated. Metabolism of resorcinol begins with o-hydroxylation to 1,2,4-benzenetriol, which undergoes ortho-ring fission yielding maleylacetate. Isolating this product leads to its decarboxylation and isomerization to trans-acetylacrylic acid. Maleylacetate is reduced by crude extracts to beta-ketoadipate with either reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide or reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate as a cosubstrate. The enzyme catalyzing this reaction was separated from catechol 1,2-oxygenase, phenol hydroxylase, and muconate lactonizing enzyme on a diethyl-aminoethyl-Sephadex A50 column. As a result it was purified some 50-fold, as was the muconate-lactonizing enzyme. Methyl-, fluoro-, and chlorophenols are converted to a varying extent by crude extracts and by purified enzymes. None of these derivatives is converted to maleylacetate, beta-ketoadipate, or their derivatives. Cells grown on resorcinol contain enzymes that participate in the degradation of phenol and vice versa.
The complete genome sequence of Bacillus subtilis strain DM2 isolated from petroleum-contaminated soil on the Tibetan Plateau was determined. The genome of strain DM2 consists of a circular chromosome of 4,238,631 bp for 4458 protein-coding genes and a plasmid of 84,240 bp coding for 103 genes. Thirty-four genomic islands coding for 330 proteins and 5 prophages are found in the genome. The DDH value shows that strain DM2 belongs to B. subtilis subsp. subtilis subspecies, but significant variations of the genome are also present. Comparative analysis showed that the genome of strain DM2 encodes some strain-specific proteins in comparison with B. subtilis subsp. subtilis str. 168, such as carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase family protein, gfo/Idh/MocA family oxidoreductases, GlsB/YeaQ/YmgE family stress response membrane protein, HlyC/CorC family transporters, LLM class flavin-dependent oxidoreductase, and LPXTG cell wall anchor domain-containing protein. Most of the common strain-specific proteins in DM2 and MJ01 strains, or proteins unique to DM2 strain, are involved in the pathways related to stress response, signaling, and hydrocarbon degradation. Furthermore, the strain DM2 genome contains 122 genes coding for developed two-component systems and 138 genes coding for ABC transporter systems. The prominent features of the strain DM2 genome reflect the evolutionary fitness of this strain to harsh conditions and hydrocarbon utilization.
In this work, the effects of PcaJ (beta-ketoadipate:succinyl-coenzyme A transferase)- and PcaD (beta-ketoadipate enol-lactone hydrolase)-inactivation on protocatechuic acid metabolism in Pseudomonas putida KT2440 were evaluated. Beta-ketoadipic acid was produced from protocatechuic acid by the inactivation of PcaJ as expected; however, a portion of the produced beta-ketoadipic acid was converted to levulinic acid through a purification step consisting of extraction from the culture and recrystallization. On the other hand, muconolactone was purified from the culture of the PcaD-inactivated mutant of KT2440, although beta-ketoadipate enol-lactone was supposed to be produced because it is the substrate of PcaD. Under aerobic conditions, it has been reported that lignin-related aromatics are metabolized through PCA 2,3- or 3,4- or 4,5-ring cleavage pathways, and muconolactone is an intermediate observed in the metabolism of catechol, not protocatechuic acid. Our results will provide a prospective route to produce muconolactone with a high yield through the protocatechuate-3,4-metabolic pathway.
Acinetobacter sp. strain ADP1 can catabolize benzoate as the sole source of carbon and energy via the β-ketoadipate pathway, a well-studied pathway for the microbial dissimilation of aromatic compounds (Fig. ​(Fig.1)1) (8). Growth on benzoate involves the coordinated expression of at least 15 ben and cat genes clustered on the ADP1 chromosome (Fig. ​(Fig.2).2). Among these genes are benM and catM, which encode homologous LysR-type transcriptional regulators (5, 18, 22). Chromosomal disruption of benM prevents growth on benzoate, although mutants that acquire the ability to grow with benzoate as the sole carbon source arise at a frequency of approximately 10−5 (5). To improve our understanding of the complex regulatory circuit governing benzoate degradation in ADP1, we characterized spontaneous mutants that grow on benzoate in the absence of BenM. ::: ::: ::: ::: FIG. 1 ::: ::: Catechol branch of the β-ketoadipate pathway of Acinetobacter sp. strain ADP1. The compounds and genes relevant to these studies are in boldface and italicized, respectively. Rectangles indicate the catA- and catB-encoded enzymes that produce ... ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: FIG. 2 ::: ::: Restriction map of the chromosomal ben-cat region. Genes and their transcriptional directions are shown relative to some of the KpnI (K), ClaI (C), HindIII (H), SphI (Sp), EcoRI (E), SalI (S), and HincII (Hc) restriction endonuclease sites. Numerical ... ::: ::: ::: ::: BenM normally responds to benzoate and cis,cis-muconate to activate transcription of the benABCDE operon, whose gene products convert benzoate to catechol. CatM, in turn, regulates catechol degradation by activating transcription of the cat genes in response to cis,cis-muconate. CatM and BenM are 59% identical in protein sequence. In addition, the operator-promoter regions to which the two regulatory proteins bind have similar DNA sequences (5, 22). The CatM-regulated genes include catA, which encodes a dioxygenase that produces cis,cis-muconate from catechol, and the catBCIJFD genes, which are needed to generate tricarboxylic acid cycle intermediates from cis,cis-muconate (Fig. ​(Fig.11 and ​and2).2). The catA gene is regulated by BenM, as well as by CatM. CatM, unlike BenM, does not respond to benzoate as an inducer, nor does CatM normally substitute for BenM in activating ben gene expression (5). ::: ::: The inability of benM-disrupted mutants to express the benABCDE operon can be overcome by at least two types of mutations upstream of the benA coding sequence. One mutation in the benA promoter results in constitutive ben gene expression (5). A different point mutation in this region enables cis,cis-muconate, but not benzoate, to induce benABCDE expression in the absence of BenM (5). This latter mutation may allow CatM to activate ben gene expression in vivo. ::: ::: As described here, benM-disrupted mutants able to grow on benzoate that had wild-type benA promoter sequences were chosen for further investigation. Since catM was considered a possible site for mutations that would allow growth on benzoate, this genetic region was characterized in four independently isolated strains. In each case, mutations were identified not in catM but rather in the adjacent catB structural gene. This latter gene encodes muconate cycloisomerase (also known as muconate-lactonizing enzyme), an enzyme that converts cis,cis-muconate to muconolactone (Fig. ​(Fig.1)1) (15). Since muconate cycloisomerase is required for growth on benzoate, the variant CatB enzymes were predicted to be functional. This prediction was tested by investigating the enzymatic activities of cell extracts and purified proteins. In addition, the effects of the catB mutations on ben gene expression were studied. A model is presented in which muconate cycloisomerase helps to control the internal cellular concentration of cis,cis-muconate, thereby affecting transcriptional regulation by the CatM activator protein.
Klebsiella aerogenes NCTC 418 adapted to mineral salts medium with benzoate as sole source of carbon and energy oxidized catechol without a lag and as rapidly as benzoate. It also oxidizedcis-cis-muconate, (+)-muconolactone and β-ketoadipate without a lag but less rapidly. For each mol of benzoate, catechol,cis-cis-muconate, (+)-muconolactone or β-ketoadipate oxidized by fresh, intact benzoate-adapted bacteria, 6.0, 5.0, 4.0, 4.0 and 4.0 mol of O2 respectively were taken up. Incubation of cell-free extracts of ultrasonically disrupted benzoateadapted bacteria with catechol in the presence of EDTA affordedcis-cis-muconate. Incubation of heat-treated cell-free extracts withcis-cis-muconate yielded (+)-muconolactone. Incubation of cell-free extracts with catechol,cis-cis-muconate, or (+)-muconolactone gave β-ketoadipate. Cell-free extracts of the organism adapted to mineral salts medium containingp-hydroxybenzoate as sole source of carbon and energy also converted catechol to β-ketoadipate. Strains adapted to glucose, benzoate orp-hydroxybenzoate did not contain detectable amounts of catechol-2,3-oxygenase. The above observations are consistent with the following pathway inK. aerogenes: benzoate (orp-hydroxybenzoate) →catechol→cis-cis-muconate→(+)-muconolactone→β-ketoadipate.
Pseudomonas sp. strain MT1 is capable of degrading 4- and 5-chlorosalicylates via 4-chlorocatechol, 3-chloromuconate, and maleylacetate by a novel pathway. 3-Chloromuconate is transformed by muconate cycloisomerase of MT1 into protoanemonin, a dominant reaction product, as previously shown for other muconate cycloisomerases. However, kinetic data indicate that the muconate cycloisomerase of MT1 is specialized for 3-chloromuconate conversion and is not able to form cis-dienelactone. Protoanemonin is obviously a dead-end product of the pathway. A trans-dienelactone hydrolase (trans-DLH) was induced during growth on chlorosalicylates. Even though the purified enzyme did not act on either 3-chloromuconate or protoanemonin, the presence of muconate cylcoisomerase and trans-DLH together resulted in considerably lower protoanemonin concentrations but larger amounts of maleylacetate formed from 3-chloromuconate than the presence of muconate cycloisomerase alone resulted in. As trans-DLH also acts on 4-fluoromuconolactone, forming maleylacetate, we suggest that this enzyme acts on 4-chloromuconolactone as an intermediate in the muconate cycloisomerase-catalyzed transformation of 3-chloromuconate, thus preventing protoanemonin formation and favoring maleylacetate formation. The maleylacetate formed in this way is reduced by maleylacetate reductase. Chlorosalicylate degradation in MT1 thus occurs by a new pathway consisting of a patchwork of reactions catalyzed by enzymes from the 3-oxoadipate pathway (catechol 1,2-dioxygenase, muconate cycloisomerase) and the chlorocatechol pathway (maleylacetate reductase) and a trans-DLH.
3-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate lactonizing enzyme (CMLE) (also called 3-carboxy-cis,cis-muconolactone cycloisomerase) catalyzes the reversible y-lactonization of 3-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate (3-carboxy-CCM). This reaction produces a lactone intermediate in the ,8-ketoadipate pathway (Stanier & Ornston, 1973) , a catabolic route by which bacteria, yeast, and fungi metabolize aromatic compounds to TCA cycle components. In both eukaryotes and prokaryotes, the cyclization reactions of cis,cis-muconate (CCM) and 3-carboxy-CCM are catalyzed by muconate lactonizing enzyme (MLE) and CMLE in separate but parallel branches of the pathway.
The Miscellaneous Crenarchaeota group (MCG) Archaea is one of the predominant archaeal groups in anoxic environments and may have significant roles in the global biogeochemical cycles. However, no isolate of MCG has been cultivated or characterized to date. In this study, we investigated the genetic organization, ecophysiological properties and evolutionary relationships of MCG archaea with other archaeal members using metagenome information and the result of gene expression experiments. A comparison of the gene organizations and similarities around the 16S rRNA genes from all available MCG fosmid and cosmid clones revealed no significant synteny among genomic fragments, demonstrating that there are large genetic variations within members of the MCG. Phylogenetic analyses of large-subunit+small-subunit rRNA, concatenated ribosomal protein genes and topoisomerases IB gene (TopoIB) all demonstrate that MCG constituted a sister lineage to the newly proposed archaeal phylum Aigarchaeota and Thaumarchaeota. Genes involved in protocatechuate degradation and chemotaxis were found in a MCG fosmid 75G8 genome fragment, suggesting that this MCG member may have a role in the degradation of aromatic compounds. Moreover, the expression of a putative 4-carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase was observed when the sediment was supplemented with protocatechuate, further supporting the hypothesis that this MCG member degrades aromatic compounds.
Cells of the yeast strain Debaryomyces vanrijiae SBUG 770, grown with glucose, converted biphenyl to 4-hydroxybiphenyl as the major metabolite. In addition, 2-hydroxybiphenyl was formed in minor amounts. No further degradation of these substances was detected. However, these monohydroxylated derivatives were oxidised by alkane-grown cells in the presence of the co-metabolic substrate, tetradecane. Under these conditions 2-hydroxybiphenyl was oxidised to 2,5-dihydroxybiphenyl, and 4-hydroxybiphenyl was rapidly metabolised by formation of two major metabolites. One was identified as 3,4-dihydroxybiphenyl. Characterisation of the second product as 4-phenylmuconolactone points to a further metabolism of the initially formed dihydroxylated biphenyl via ortho-ring fission.
Methanosarcina acetivorans, a strictly anaerobic methane-producing species belonging to the domain Archaea, contains a gene cluster annotated with homologs encoding oxidative stress proteins. One of the genes (MA3736) is annotated as a gene encoding an uncharacterized carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase, an enzyme required for aerobic growth with aromatic compounds by species in the domain Bacteria. Methane-producing species are not known to utilize aromatic compounds, suggesting that MA3736 is incorrectly annotated. The product of MA3736, overproduced in Escherichia coli, had protein disulfide reductase activity dependent on a C67XXC70 motif not found in carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase. We propose that MA3736 be renamed mdrA (methanosarcina disulfide reductase). Further, unlike carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase, MdrA contained an Fe-S cluster. Binding of the Fe-S cluster was dependent on essential cysteines C67 and C70, while cysteines C39 and C107 were not required. Loss of the Fe-S cluster resulted in conversion of MdrA from an inactive hexamer to a trimer with protein disulfide reductase activity. The data suggest that MdrA is the prototype of a previously unrecognized protein disulfide reductase family which contains an intermolecular Fe-S cluster that controls oligomerization as a mechanism to regulate protein disulfide reductase activity.
The Miscellaneous Crenarchaeota group (MCG) Archaea is one of the predominant archaeal groups in anoxic environments and may have significant roles in the global biogeochemical cycles. However, no isolate of MCG has been cultivated or characterized to date. In this study, we investigated the genetic organization, ecophysiological properties and evolutionary relationships of MCG archaea with other archaeal members using metagenome information and the result of gene expression experiments. A comparison of the gene organizations and similarities around the 16S rRNA genes from all available MCG fosmid and cosmid clones revealed no significant synteny among genomic fragments, demonstrating that there are large genetic variations within members of the MCG. Phylogenetic analyses of large-subunit þ small-subunit rRNA, concatenated ribosomal protein genes and topoisomerases IB gene (TopoIB) all demonstrate that MCG constituted a sister lineage to the newly proposed archaeal phylum Aigarchaeota and Thaumarchaeota. Genes involved in protocatechuate degradation and chemotaxis were found in a MCG fosmid 75G8 genome fragment, suggesting that this MCG member may have a role in the degradation of aromatic compounds. Moreover, the expression of a putative 4-carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase was observed when the sediment was supplemented with protocatechuate, further supporting the hypothesis that this MCG member degrades aromatic compounds.
SUMMARY: A strain of Acinetobacter Iwoffii, isolated from a stored sample of distilled water, hydrolysed acetylsalicylic acid to salicylic and acetic acids. It grew in mineral salts medium with either of these compounds as C source and NH4+ as N source. Experiments with whole cells and cell free extracts and the isolation of intermediates showed that acetylsalicylic acid was metabolized through salicylic acid, catechol, cis-cis-muconic acid, (+)-muconolactone and β-oxoadipic acid. The salicylate hydroxylase required NADH or NADPH as cofactor and 1 mole of O2 was taken up and 1 mole of CO2 evolved for each mole of salicylate oxidized. Catalytic quantities of flavine adenine dinucleotide (FAD) but not flavine mononucleotide (FMN) activated the enzyme. The cis-cis-muconate lactonizing enzyme was activated by Mn2+ and inhibited by EDTA.
Abstract The oxygenation reactions of two catecholatoiron(III) complexes, [Fe(TPA)(3,5-di- tert -butylcatecholate)]BPh 4 ( 1 ) and [Fe(TPA)(4-chlorocatecholate)]BPh 4 ( 2 ) (TPA = tris(pyridin-2-ylmethyl)amine), with O 2 have been investigated by means of ESI-MS spectrometry to elucidate the detailed mechanisms of oxygen atom insertion from O 2 into the catecholate ligands promoted by iron(III) complexes. Both 1 and 2 gave products formed by incorporation of two oxygen atoms into the catecholate ligands; 2,4-di- tert -butylmuconolactone for 1 and cis -dienelactone for 2 . ESI-MS spectra of the products formed by the reaction with 18 O 2 revealed the following points: (1) Two oxygen atoms of 2,4-di- tert -butylmuconolactone are mostly derived from 18 O 2 . (2) cis -Dienelactone is obtained as a mixture of mono- and double- 18 O-labeled species with a ratio of 50:50. These results suggest that the second oxygen atom is incorporated into muconic anhydride through nucleophilic attack on the carbonyl groups of muconic anhydride by the 18 O-oxo-group of the metal center, and that this process competes with dissociation of muconic anhydride from the metal center.
Trichosporon cutaneum, when grown with p-cresol, catalyzed intradiol fission of the benzene nucleus of 4-methylcatechol before the complete catabolism of these two substrates. Steps in their conversion to pyruvate and acetyl coenzyme A were investigated by using cell extracts, and some properties of various new microbial catabolites are also described. These included (-)-2,5-dihydro-3-methyl-5-oxofuran-2-acetic acid (beta-methylmuconolactone) and (-)-3-keto-4-methyladipic acid and its coenzyme A ester; the latter was degraded by an enzymatic reaction sequence that included the coenzyme A esters of methylsuccinic, itaconic, and citramalic acids. A notable feature of this sequence is the formation of beta-methylmuconolactone which can be readily metabolized, in contrast to the analogous reaction in bacteria that gives the "dead-end" compound gamma-methylmuconolactone; this compound cannot be enzymatically degraded and so renders the beta-ketoadipate pathway unavailable for methyl-substituted bacterial sources of carbon that are catabolized by way of 4-methylcatechol.
Chloroaromatic compounds are often very persistent environmental pollutants. Nevertheless numerous bacteria are able to metabolise these compounds and use them as the sole energy and carbon source. Rhodococcus opacus 1CP is able to degrade 3-chlorocatechol via a unique variant of the modified ortho-pathway. This pathway involves chloromuconolactone dehalogenase which dehalogenates the 5-chloromuconolactone to cis-dienelactone. The enzyme shows a high similarity to muconolactone isomerases, but is not able to catalyse the isomerisation reaction. In order to characterize the catalytic mechanism of this unusal dehalogenase, we crystallised the enzyme and subjected it to X-ray structural analysis. Datasets of up to 1.65 Ǻ resolution were collected from two different crystal forms using synchrotron radiation. Cocrystallisation with substrate analogs yielded to crystals which are currently analysed for binding, to characterise the mechanism of dehalogenation.
Aromatic degradation by two yeast strains of Rhodotorula (R.) rubra was examined. Separation and identification of phenol and protocatechuic acid (PCA) metabolites were carried out using high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS). For HPLC analysis of β -ketoadipic acid, 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazone derivative was prepared. For GC/MS analysis, metabolites in the cultured broth were extracted with ethyl acetate and trimethylsilylated by N-o-bis(trimethylsilyl)acetoamide. Based on HPLC and GC/MS analyses, phenol metabolites were identified as catechol, eis, cis-muconic acid, muconolactone, β -ketoadipate enol-lactone and β -ketoadipic acid. β -Ketoadipic acid was also found in the PCA metabolites by crude cell-free extract. From the results obtained in this study, a metabolic sequence for aromatic degradation is proposed. Phenol may be hydroxylated to form catechol prior to ring cleavage, and catechol may be further oxidized to eis, cis-muconic acid, muconolactone, β -ketoadipate enol-lactone and β -ketoadipic acid. Catechol branch as well as protocatechuate branch in β -ketoadipate pathway may exist in R. rubra.
From an aquifier contaminated with phenolic compounds seven bacterial strains able to grow on phenol and several mono- and disubstituted alkylphenols as sole source of carbon and energy were isolated. Five isolates belong to the genus Pseudomonas, two to the genus Bacillus. The isolate most active in utilization of the applied xenobiotics was identified as Bacillus pumilus and used for the investigation of the degradation pathways in liquid cultures. Cells of this strain precultured on phenol were able to utilize para-cresol as sole carbon source via the oxidation of the methylsubstituent and intradiol ring cleavage of the resulting protocatechuic acid, whereas an intradiol ring fission of the intermediate 4-methylcatechol led to 4-methylmuconolactone as dead end-product. Cells precultured on meta- and ortho-cresol were able to utilize the respective compounds as sole carbon sources via 3-methylcatechol, which induced the following extradiol ring fission pathway. Cells precultured on phenol were able to cooxidize meta- as well as ortho-cresol to 3-methylcatechol, which was cleaved via an intradiol ring fission, finally leading to the dead end-product 2-methylmuconolactone.
Burkholderia cepacia 2a inducibly degraded 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetate (2,4-D) sequentially via 2,4-dichlorophenol, 3,5-dichlorocatechol, 2,4-dichloromuconate, 2-chloromuconolactone and 2-chloromaleylacetate. Cells grown on nutrient agar or broth grew on 2,4-D-salts only if first passaged on 4-hydroxybenzoate- or succinate-salts agar. Buffered suspensions of 4-hydroxybenzoate-grown cells did not adapt to 2,4-D or 3,5-dichlorocatechol, but responded to 2,4-dichlorophenol at concentrations <0.4 mM. Uptake of 2,4-dichlorophenol by non-induced cells displayed a type S (cooperative uptake) uptake isotherm in which the accelerated uptake of the phenol began before the equivalent of a surface monolayer had been adsorbed, and growth inhibition corresponded with the acquisition of 2.2-fold excess of phenol required for the establishment of the monolayer. No evidence of saturation was seen even at 2 mM 2,4-dichlorophenol, possibly due to absorption by intracellular poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate inclusions. With increasing concentration, 2,4-dichlorophenol caused progressive cell membrane damage and, sequentially, leakage of intracellular K(+), P(i), ribose and material absorbing light at 260 nm (presumed nucleotide cofactors), until at 0.4 mM, protein synthesis and enzyme induction were forestalled. Growth of non-adapted cells was inhibited by 0.35 mM 2,4-dichlorophenol and 0.25 mM 3,5-dichlorocatechol; the corresponding minimum bacteriocidal concentrations were 0.45 and 0.35 mM. Strain 2a grew in chemostat culture on carbon-limited media containing 2,4-D, with an apparent growth yield coefficient of 0.23, and on 2,4-dichlorophenol. Growth on 3,5-dichlorocatechol did not occur without a supplement of succinate, probably due to accumulation of toxic quantities of quinonoid and polymerisation products. Cells grown on these compounds were active towards all three, but not when grown on other substrates. The enzymes of the pathway therefore appeared to be induced by 3,5-dichlorocatechol or some later metabolite. A possible reason is offered for the environmental persistence of 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4,5-T).
Hydrogenophaga intermedia strain S1 and Agrobacterium radiobacter strain S2 form a mixed bacterial culture which degrades sulfanilate (4-aminobenzenesulfonate) by a novel variation of the β-ketoadipate pathway via 4-sulfocatechol and 3-sulfomuconate. It was previously proposed that the further metabolism of 3-sulfomuconate is catalysed by modified 3-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate-lactonizing enzymes (CMLEs) and that these ‘type 2’ enzymes were different from the conventional CMLEs (‘type 1’) from the protocatechuate pathway in their ability to convert 3-sulfomuconate in addition to 3-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate. In the present study the genes for two CMLEs (pcaB2S1 and pcaB2S2) were cloned from H. intermedia S1 and A. radiobacter S2, respectively. In both strains, these genes were located close to the previously identified genes encoding the 4-sulfocatechol-converting enzymes. The gene products of pcaB2S1 and pcaB2S2 were therefore tentatively identified as type 2 enzymes involved in the metabolism of 3-sulfomuconate. The genes were functionally expressed and the gene products were shown to convert 3-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate and 3-sulfomuconate. 4-Carboxymethylene-4-sulfo-but-2-en-olide (4-sulfomuconolactone) was identified by HPLC-MS as the product, which was enzymically formed from 3-sulfomuconate. His-tagged variants of both CMLEs were purified and compared with the CMLE from the protocatechuate pathway of Pseudomonas putida PRS2000 for the conversion of 3-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate and 3-sulfomuconate. The CMLEs from the 4-sulfocatechol pathway converted 3-sulfomuconate with considerably higher activities than 3-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate. Also the CMLE from P. putida converted 3-sulfomuconate, but this enzyme demonstrated a clear preference for 3-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate as substrate. Thus it was demonstrated that in the 4-sulfocatechol pathway, distinct CMLEs are formed, which are specifically adapted for the preferred conversion of sulfonated substrates.
Of all NMR-observable isotopes 19F is the one most convenient for studies on the biodegradation of environmental pollutants and especially for fast initial metabolic screening of newly isolated organisms. In the past decade we have identified the 19F NMR characteristics of many fluorinated intermediates in the microbial degradation of fluoroaromatics including especially fluorophenols. In the present paper we give an overview of results obtained for the initial steps in the aerobic microbial degradation of fluorophenols, i.e. the aromatic hydroxylation to di -, tri - or even tetrahydroxybenzenes ultimately suitable as substrates for the second step, ring cleavage by dioxygenases. In addition we present new results from studies on the identification of metabolites resulting from reaction steps following aromatic ring cleavage, i.e. resulting from the conversion of fluoromuconates by chloromuconate cycloisomerase. Together the presented data illustrate the potential of the 19F NMR technique for (1) fast initial screening of biodegradative pathways, i.e. for studies on metabolomics in newly isolated microorganisms, and (2) identification of relatively unstable pathway intermediates like fluoromuconolactones and fluoromaleylacetates.
The 4-chloro- and 2,4-dichlorophenol-degrading strain Rhodococcus opacus 1CP has previously been shown to acquire, during prolonged adaptation, the ability to mineralize 2-chlorophenol. In addition, homogeneous chlorocatechol 1,2-dioxygenase from 2-chlorophenol-grown biomass has shown relatively high activity towards 3-chlorocatechol. Based on sequences of the N terminus and tryptic peptides of this enzyme, degenerate PCR primers were now designed and used for cloning of the respective gene from genomic DNA of strain 1CP. A 9.5-kb fragment containing nine open reading frames was obtained on pROP1. Besides other genes, a gene cluster consisting of four chlorocatechol catabolic genes was identified. As judged by sequence similarity and correspondence of predicted N termini with those of purified enzymes, the open reading frames correspond to genes for a second chlorocatechol 1,2-dioxygenase (ClcA2), a second chloromuconate cycloisomerase (ClcB2), a second dienelactone hydrolase (ClcD2), and a muconolactone isomerase-related enzyme (ClcF). All enzymes of this new cluster are only distantly related to the known chlorocatechol enzymes and appear to represent new evolutionary lines of these activities. UV overlay spectra as well as high-pressure liquid chromatography analyses confirmed that 2-chloro-cis,cis-muconate is transformed by ClcB2 to 5-chloromuconolactone, which during turnover by ClcF gives cis-dienelactone as the sole product. cis-Dienelactone was further hydrolyzed by ClcD2 to maleylacetate. ClcF, despite its sequence similarity to muconolactone isomerases, no longer showed muconolactone-isomerizing activity and thus represents an enzyme dedicated to its new function as a 5-chloromuconolactone dehalogenase. Thus, during 3-chlorocatechol degradation by R. opacus 1CP, dechlorination is catalyzed by a muconolactone isomerase-related enzyme rather than by a specialized chloromuconate cycloisomerase.
Hydrogenophaga intermedia strain S1 and Agrobacterium radiobacter strain S2 form a mixed bacterial culture which degrades sulfanilate (4-aminobenzenesulfonate) by a novel variation of the b-ketoadipate pathway via 4-sulfocatechol and 3-sulfomuconate. It was previously proposed that the further metabolism of 3-sulfomuconate is catalysed by modified 3-carboxy-cis, cis-muconate-lactonizing enzymes (CMLEs) and that these 'type 2' enzymes were different from the conventional CMLEs ('type 1') from the protocatechuate pathway in their ability to convert 3-sulfomuconate in addition to 3-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate. In the present study the genes for two CMLEs (pcaB2S1 and pcaB2S2) were cloned from H. intermedia S1 and A. radiobacter S2, respectively. In both strains, these genes were located close to the previously identified genes encoding the 4-sulfocatechol-converting enzymes. The gene products of pcaB2S1 and pcaB2S2 were therefore tentatively identified as type 2 enzymes involved in the metabolism of 3-sulfomuconate. The genes were functionally expressed and the gene products were shown to convert 3-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate and 3-sulfomuconate. 4-Carboxymethylene-4-sulfo-but-2-en-olide (4-sulfomuconolactone) was identified by HPLC-MS as the product, which was enzymically formed from 3-sulfomuconate. His-tagged variants of both CMLEs were purified and compared with the CMLE from the protocatechuate pathway of Pseudomonas putida PRS2000 for the conversion of 3-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate and 3-sulfomuconate. The CMLEs from the 4-sulfocatechol pathway converted 3-sulfomuconate with considerably higher activities than 3-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate. Also the CMLE from P. putida converted 3-sulfomuconate, but this enzyme demonstrated a clear preference for 3-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate as substrate. Thus it was demonstrated that in the 4-sulfocatechol pathway, distinct CMLEs are formed, which are specifically adapted for the preferred conversion of sulfonated substrates.
Chloromuconate cycloisomerases of bacteria utilizing chloroaromatic compounds are known to convert 3-chloro-cis,cis-muconate to cis-dienelactone (cis-4-carboxymethylenebut-2-en-4-olide), while usual muconate cycloisomerases transform the same substrate to the bacteriotoxic protoanemonin. Formation of protoanemonin requires that the cycloisomerization of 3-chloro-cis,cis-muconate to 4-chloromuconolactone is completed by protonation of the exocyclic carbon of the presumed enol/enolate intermediate before chloride elimination and decarboxylation take place to yield the final product. The formation of cis-dienelactone, in contrast, could occur either by dehydrohalogenation of 4-chloromuconolactone or, more directly, by chloride elimination from the enol/enolate intermediate. To reach a better understanding of the mechanisms of chloride elimination, the proton-donating Lys169 of Pseudomonas putida muconate cycloisomerase was changed to alanine. As expected, substrates requiring protonation, such as cis,cis-muconate as well as 2- and 3-methyl-, 3-fluoro-, and 2-chloro-cis,cis-muconate, were not converted at a significant rate by the K169A variant. However, the variant was still active with 3-chloro- and 2,4-dichloro-cis,cis-muconate. Interestingly, cis-dienelactone and 2-chloro-cis-dienelactone were formed as products, whereas the wild-type enzyme forms protoanemonin and the not previously isolated 2-chloroprotoanemonin, respectively. Thus, the chloromuconate cycloisomerases may avoid (chloro-)protoanemonin formation by increasing the rate of chloride abstraction from the enol/enolate intermediate compared to that of proton addition to it.
gamma-Carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase (EC 4.1.1.44) from Azotobacter vinelandii resembled the isofunctional enzymes from Acinetobacter calcoaceticus and Pseudomonas putida. All three decarboxylases appeared to be hexamers formed by association of identical subunits of about 13,300 daltons. The A. vinelandii and P. putida decarboxylases cross-reacted immunologically with each other, and the NH2-terminal amino acid sequences of the enzymes differed in no more than 7 of the first 36 residues. In contrast, the A. calcoaceticus decarboxylase did not cross-react with the decarboxylase from A. vinelandii or P. putida; the NH2-terminal amino acid sequences of these enzymes diverged about 50% from the NH2-terminal amino acid sequence of the A. calcoaceticus decarboxylase.
Removal of aromatic compounds from alkaline and/or saline industrial wastewater is an environmental concern for industry. In addition, aromatics may be accumulating in soda lakes, unique natural systems, where the fate and toxicity of these contaminants is unknown. To determine the feasibility of aromatic compound biodegradation in saline and alkaline conditions, the effect of pH and salinity on the biodegradation of phenol as a model aromatic waste compound by the haloalkaliphilic bacterium Halomonas campisalis was examined. Phenol was degraded as a source of carbon and energy at pH 8-11 and 0-150 g/L NaCl. Metabolic intermediates catechol, cis,cis-muconate, and (+)-muconolactone were identified, thus indicating that phenol was degraded via the beta-ketoadipate metabolic pathway. Although phenol and catechol were completely degraded in all cases, small amounts of cis,cis-muconate accumulated proportionally to increases in pH. There was no noticeable influence of salinity on cis,cis-muconate accumulation except at 0 g/L NaCl where it was completely degraded. These results indicate that it may be feasible to use haloalkaliphiles forthe treatment of aromatics present in saline and/or alkaline systems. This is the first report of phenol and catechol biodegradation under combined saline and alkaline conditions.
Abstract The natural products erysulfone ( 1 ) and erysulfoxide ( 2 ) have been prepared from (+)-muconolactone ( 3 ). This synthetic work has substantiated the earlier, probable assignment of absolute configuration of these targets.
Abstract The sensitivities of three enzymes of the β-ketoadipate pathway to inactivation by N-methyl-N′-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG) were determined in vivo and in vitro under conditions compatible with mutagenesis. One enzyme, β-ketoadipate enol-lactone hydrolase, is very sensitive to inactivation by low concentrations of MNNG. This enzyme is also sensitive to inactivation by N-ethylmaleimide and mercurial reagents. The free sulfhydryl content of native enol-lactone hydrolase was determined to be two moles free sulfhydryl per mole of enzyme. A 95% inactivation of enol-lactone hydrolase by MNNG results in a masking of slightly more than one mole sulfhydryl per mole enzyme. Muconate lactonizing enzyme is moderately sensitive to inactivation by low concentrations of MNNG, but is not inactivated by sulfhydryl reagents. Muconolactone isomerase is resistant to inactivation by low concentrations of MNNG and is not inactivated by sulfhydryl reagents. Upon exposure to high concentrations of MNNG, muconolactone isomerase is rapidly inactivated. Spectrophotometric evidence indicates the lysine residues are nitroguanidinated proportionally with a loss in the enzymatic activity. These data indicate that the exposure of cells to low concentrations of MNNG should affect the activity of enzymes with essential sulfhydryl groups.
Chloroaromatic compounds are often very persistent environmental pollutants. Nevertheless, numerous bacteria are able to metabolize these compounds and to utilize them as sole energy and carbon sources. Rhodococcus opacus 1CP is able to degrade several chloroaromatic compounds, some of them via a variation of the 3-chlorocatechol branch of the modified ortho-cleavage pathway. This branch in R. opacus differs from that in Proteobacteria in the inability of the chloromuconate cycloisomerase to dehalogenate. Instead, a unique enzyme designated as chloromuconolactone dehalogenase (ClcF) is recruited. ClcF dehalogenates 5-chloromuconolactone to cis-dienelactone and shows a high similarity to muconolactone isomerases (EC 5.3.3.4). However, unlike the latter enzymes, it is unable to catalyse the isomerization of muconolactone to 3-­oxoadipate enollactone. In order to characterize the catalytic mechanism of this unusual dehalogenase, the enzyme was crystallized and subjected to X-ray structural analysis. Data sets to up to 1.65 A resolution were collected from two different crystal forms using synchrotron radiation. Crystal form I (space group P21) contained 40 subunits in the asymmetric unit, whereas ten subunits were present in crystal form II (space group P212121). The self-rotation function revealed the orientations of the molecular symmetry axes of the homodecamer of 52 symmetry.
Protocatechuate 3,4-dioxygenase (EC 1.13.11.3) catalyzes the ring cleavage step in the catabolism of aromatic compounds through the protocatechuate branch of the beta-ketoadipate pathway. A protocatechuate 3,4-dioxygenase was purified from Streptomyces sp. strain 2065 grown in p-hydroxybenzoate, and the N-terminal sequences of the beta- and alpha-subunits were obtained. PCR amplification was used for the cloning of the corresponding genes, and DNA sequencing of the flanking regions showed that the pcaGH genes belonged to a 6. 5-kb protocatechuate catabolic gene cluster; at least seven genes in the order pcaIJFHGBL appear to be transcribed unidirectionally. Analysis of the cluster revealed the presence of a pcaL homologue which encodes a fused gamma-carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase/beta-ketoadipate enol-lactone hydrolase previously identified in the pca gene cluster from Rhodococcus opacus 1CP. The pcaIJ genes encoded proteins with a striking similarity to succinyl-coenzyme A (CoA):3-oxoacid CoA transferases of eukaryotes and contained an indel which is strikingly similar between high-G+C gram-positive bacteria and eukaryotes.
Chloroaromatic compounds are often very persistent environmental pollutants. Nevertheless, numerous bacteria are able to metabolize these compounds and to utilize them as sole energy and carbon sources. Rhodococcus opacus 1CP is able to degrade several chloroaromatic compounds, some of them via a variation of the 3-chlorocatechol branch of the modified ortho-cleavage pathway. This branch in R. opacus differs from that in Proteobacteria in the inability of the chloromuconate cycloisomerase to dehalogenate. Instead, a unique enzyme designated as chloromuconolactone dehalogenase (ClcF) is recruited. ClcF dehalogenates 5-chloromuconolactone to cis-dienelactone and shows a high similarity to muconolactone isomerases (EC 5.3.3.4). However, unlike the latter enzymes, it is unable to catalyse the isomerization of muconolactone to 3-oxoadipate enollactone. In order to characterize the catalytic mechanism of this unusual dehalogenase, the enzyme was crystallized and subjected to X-ray structural analysis. Data sets to up to 1.65 Å resolution were collected from two different crystal forms using synchrotron radiation. Crystal form I (space group P2 1 ) contained 40 subunits in the asymmetric unit, whereas ten subunits were present in crystal form II (space group P2 1 2 1 2 1 ). The self-rotation function revealed the orientations of the molecular symmetry axes of the homodecamer of 52 symmetry.
Halogenated aromatic compounds are widespread in nature, for example in marine sponges and plants or as secondary metabolites in fungi or bacteria (Gribble, 2003) . Furthermore, over several decades significant amounts of these compounds originating from anthropogenic sources, for example herbicides, organic solvents, chemical building blocks and pharmaceuticals, have been released into the environment (Reineke & Knackmuss, 1988; Chaudhry & Chapalamadugu, 1991; Hä ggblom, 1992) . The presence of a Cl atom often drastically alters the physicochemical properties of an organic compound. In particular, many chloroaromatic compounds show considerable toxicity and tend to persist in the enviroment (Safe, 2005) . During evolutionary adaptation, bacteria and some fungi have developed several catabolic mechanisms to degrade these substances. The most common and best characterized pathway, the modified ortho-pathway, is predominantly found in soil bacteria (Harwood & Parales, 1996) . In this degradation route, a large number of chloroaromatics are funnelled into a few chlorocatechol isomers after initial degradation. Specialized enzymes comprising a chlorocatechol dioxygenase, a chloromuconate cycloisomerase, a dienelactone hydrolase and a maleylacetate reductase are responsible for the downstream processing of the isomers (Reineke & Knackmuss, 1988; Hä ggblom, 1992; Schlö mann, 1994) . The genes of the pathway may be exchanged between different species by catabolic plasmids and/or by transposable elements (Reineke & Knackmuss, 1988; Schlö mann, 1994; van der Meer, 1997; Ravatn et al., 1998) . Recent biochemical and genetic studies of 3-chlorocatechol degradation by the Gram-positive actinobacterium Rhodococcus opacus 1CP revealed remarkable differences from known pathways in Proteobacteria (Eulberg et al., 1998) . The cycloisomerase in this pathway is not able to dehalogenate the cycloisomerized product 5-chloromuconolactone to a dienelactone. Therefore, strain 1CP expresses an additional chloro-muconolactone dehalogenase (ClcF) to catalyse the conversion of 5chloromuconolactone to cis-dienelactone, the substrate of the dienelactone hydrolase in this pathway ( Fig. 1 ; Moiseeva et al., 2002) . The dehalogenase comprises 94 amino acids, with a corresponding molecular weight of 11.2 kDa. A high similarity is found to the muconolactone isomerases (MLIases), which catalyse the isomerization of muconolactone to 3-oxoadipate enollactone in the regular ortho-pathway of catechol, clearly indicating a relationship to these enzymes (Fig. 2 ). However, ClcF shows no activity towards muconolactone, whereas the muconolactone isomerases are able to isomerize muconolactone as well as to dehalogenate 5-chloromuconolactone, indicating a considerable extent of specialization (Prucha et al., 1996; Moiseeva et al., 2002) . ClcF shares 49% sequence identity with the Pseudomonas putida PRS2000 muconolactone isomerase, for which a crystal structure has been determined to 3.3 Å resolution (PDB entry 1mli; Katti et al., 1989) . As a result of the limited resolution, only the C coordinates have been deposited in the Protein Data Bank. Despite a tremendous knowledge of their genetic organization and biochemical function, little is known about the structure and catalytic mechanism of these enzymes. We crystallized ClcF in two different crystal forms and collected data sets to 1.65 Å resolution. It is hoped that the structure will provide detailed knowledge about the structural ensemble and the catalytic mechanism of this class of enzymes. Moreover, it might allow identification of the changes in the protein sequence and structure which are responsible for the high specialization of the enzyme towards 5-chloromuconolactone.
Protocatechuate 3,4-dioxygenase (EC 1.13.11.3) catalyzes the ring cleavage step in the catabolism of aromatic compounds through the protocatechuate branch of the ␤-ketoadipate pathway. A protocatechuate 3,4-dioxygenase was purified from Streptomyces sp. strain 2065 grown in p-hydroxybenzoate, and the N-terminal sequences of the ␤-and ␣-subunits were obtained. PCR amplification was used for the cloning of the corresponding genes, and DNA sequencing of the flanking regions showed that the pcaGH genes belonged to a 6.5-kb protocatechuate catabolic gene cluster; at least seven genes in the order pcaIJFHGBL appear to be transcribed unidirectionally. Analysis of the cluster revealed the presence of a pcaL homologue which encodes a fused ␥-carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase/␤-ketoadipate enol-lactone hydrolase previously identified in the pca gene cluster from Rhodococcus opacus 1CP. The pcaIJ genes encoded proteins with a striking similarity to succinyl-coenzyme A (CoA):3-oxoacid CoA transferases of eukaryotes and contained an indel which is strikingly similar between high-G؉C gram-positive bacteria and eukaryotes.
Hydrocarbons and Related Compounds: Enzymes of Alkane and Alkene Utilization: S.W. May and A.G. Katopodis, Hydrocarbon Monooxygenase System of Pseudomonas oleovorans. W.R. Finnerty, Assay Methods for Long-Chain Alkane Oxidation in Acinetobacter. W.R. Finnerty, Primary Alcohol Dehydrogenases from Acinetobacter. W.R. Finnerty, Aldehyde Dehydrogenases from Acinetobacter. W. Ashraf and J.C. Murrell, Propane-Specific Alcohol Dehydrogenase from Rhodococcus rhodochrous PNKb1. J.C. Murrell and W. Ashraf, Cell-Free Assay Methods for Enzymes of Propane Utilization. B.W. Groen and J.A. Duine, Quinoprotein Alcohol Dehydrogenase from Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Quinhemoprotein Alcohol Dehydrogenase from Comamonas testosteroni (Pseudomonas testosteroni). Enzymes Involved in Cyclic and Aromatic Hydrocarbon Utilization: L.P. Wackett, Toluene Dioxygenase from Pseudomonas putida F1. B.D. Ensley and B.E. Haigler, Naphthalene Dioxygenase from Pseudomonas NCIB 9816. P.J. Geary, J.R. Mason, and C.L. Joannou, Benzene Dioxygenase from Pseudomonas putida ML2 (NCIB 12190). C.J. Batie and D.P. Ballou, Phthalate Dioxygenase. P.W. Trudgill, Cyclohexanone 1,2-Monooxygenase from Acinetobacter NCIMB 9871. P.W. Trudgill, Cyclohexanone 1,2-Monooxygenase from Pseudomonas NCIMB 9872. J.W. Whittaker, A.M. Orville, and J.D. Lipscomb, Protocatechuate 3,4-Dioxygenase from Brevibacterium fuscum. D.M. Arciero, A.M. Orville, and J.D. Lipscomb, Protocatechuate 4,5-Dioxygenase from Pseudomonas testosteroni. S.A. Wolgel, and J.D. Lipscomb, Protocatechuate 2,3-Dioxygenase from Bacillus macerans. M.R. Harpel and J.D. Lipscomb, Gentisate 1,2-Dioxygenase from Pseudomonas acidovorans. A.M. Orville, M.R. Harpel, and J.D. Lipscomb, Synthesis of 17O- or 18O-Enriched Dihydroxy Aromatic Acids. I.A. Kataeva and L.A. Golovleva, Catechol 2,3-Dioxygenases from Pseudomonas aeruginosa 2X. K.-L. Ngai, E.L. Neidle, and L.N. Ornston, Catechol and Chlorocatechol 1,2-Dioxygenases. R.B. Meagher, K.-L. Ngai, and L.N. Ornston, Muconate Cycloisomerase. R.B. Meagher, K.-L. Ngai, and L.N. Ornston, Muconolactone Isomerase. J.R. Mason and P.J. Geary, cis-1,2-Dihydroxycyclohexa-3,5-diene (NAD) Oxidoreductase (cis-Benzene Dihydrodiol Dehydrogenase) from Pseudomonas putida. B. Entsch, Hydroxybenzoate Monooxygenase. C.E. Cerniglia and M.A. Heitkamp, Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbon Degradation by Mycobacterium. J. Gibson, J. Geissler, and C.S. Harwood, Benzoate-CoA Ligase from Rhodopseudomonas palustris. Yeast and Fungal Enzymes of Hydrocarbon Degradation: K. Kirk, M. Tien, P.J. Kersten, B. Kalyanaraman, K.E. Hammell, and R.L. Farrell, Lignin Peroxidase from Fungi: Phanerochaeti chrysosporium. M. Ueda and A. Tanaka, Long-Chain Alcohol Dehydrogenase of Candida Yeast. Methylotrophy: Dissimilatory Enzymes of Methylotrophic Bacteria: S.J. Pilkington and H. Dalton, Soluble Methane Monooxygenase from Methylococcus capsulatus Bath. B.G. Fox, W.A. Froland, D.R. Jollie, and J.D. Lipscomb, Methane Monooxygenase from Methylosinus trichosporium OB3b. J. Frank and J.A. Duine, Methanol Dehydrogenase from Hyphomicrobium X. D. Day and C. Anthony, Methanol Dehydrogenase from Methylobacterium extorquens AM1. A.R. Long and C. Anthony, Modifier Protein for Methanol Dehydrogenase of Methylotrophs. N. Arfman and L. Dijkhuizen, Methanol Dehydrogenase from Thermotolerant Methylotroph Bacillus C1. W.S. McIntire, Mathylamine Oxidase from Arthrobacter P1. J.E. van Wielink, J. Frank, and J.A. Duine, Methylamine Dehydrogenase from Thiobacillus versutus. V.L. Davidson, Methylamine Dehydrogenases from Methylotrophs. M.Y. Kiriukhin, A.Y. Chistoserdov, and Y.D. Tsygankov, Methylamine Dehydrogenase from Methylobacillus flagellatum. W.S. McIntire, Trimethylamine Dehydrogenase from Bacterium W3A1. R.A. van der Meer, B.W. Groen, M.A.G. van Kleef, J. Frank, J.A. Jongejan, and J.A. Duine, Isolation, Preparation, and Assay of Pyrroloquinoline Quinone. C. Anthony, Blue Copper Proteins Involved in Methanol and Methylamine Oxidation. A.A. DiSpirito, Soluble Cytochromes c from Methylomonas A4. D. Day and C. Anthony, Soluble Cytochromes c of Methanol-Utilizing Bacteria. J. Frank and J. Duine, Cytochrome cL and Cytochrome cH from Hyphomicrobium X. M. Husain, Electron-Transfer Flavoprotein from Methylophilus methylotrophus and Bacterium W3A1. M.M. Attwood, Formaldehyde Dehydrogenases from Methylotrophs. J.A. Duine, NAD-Linked, Factor-Independent and Glutathione-Independent Aldehyde Dehydrogenase from Hyphomicrobium X. D.R. Jollie and J.D. Lipscomb, Formate Dehydrogenase from Methylosinus trichosporium OB3b. L.V. Kletsova, M.Y. Kiriukhin, A.Y. Chistoserdov, and Y.D. Tsygankov, Glucose-6-phosphate Dehydrogenase and 6-Phosphogluconate Dehydrogenase from Methylobacillus flagellatum. A.P. Sokolov and Y.A. Trotsenko, Glucose-6-phosphate Dehydrogenase and 6-Phosphogluconate Dehydrogenase from Arthrobacter globiformis. D. Miethe and W. Babel, Glucose-6-phosphate Dehydrogenase from Pseudomonas W6. G. M~aduller-Kraft and W. Babel, Citrate Synthases from Methylotrophs. T. Leisinger and D. Kholer-Staub, Dichloromethane Dehalogenase from Hyphomicrobium DM2. Assimilation of Formaldehyde in Methylotrophic Bacteria: P.M. Goodwin, Assay of Assimilatory Enzymes in Crude Extracts of Serine Pathway Methylotrophs. M.E. Lidstrom, Serine Hydroxymethyltransferases from Methylobacterium organophilum XX. C. Krema and M.E. Lidstrom, Hydroxypyruvate Reductase from Methylobacterium extorquens AM1. A.J. Hacking and J.R. Quayle, Malyl-A CoA Lyase from Methylobacterium extorquens AM1. P.J. Arps, Synthesis of ~scL-4-MAlyl Coenzyme A. N. Arfman, L. Bystrykh, N.I. Govoruhina, and L. Dijkhuizen, 3-Hexulose-6-phosphate Synthase from Thermotolerant Methylotroph Bacillus C1. N. Kato, 3-Hexulose-6-phosphate Synthase from Mycobacterium gastri MB19. R.H. M~aduller and W. Babel, 3-Hexulose-6-phosphate Synthase from Acetobacter methanolicus MB58. P.R. Levering and L. Dijkhuizen, Transaldolase Isoenzymes from Arthrobacter PI. Methylotrophic Enzymes in Methanol-Utilizing Yeast: M. Veenhuis and I.J. van der Klei, Cytochemical Staining Methods for Localization of Key Enzymes of Methanol Metabolism in Hansenula polymorpha. I.J. van der Klei, L.V. Bystrykh, and W. Harder, Alcohol Oxidase from Hansenula polymorpha CBS 4732. P.J. Large and G.W. Haywood, Amine Oxidases from Methylotrophic Yeasts. L.V. Bystrykh, W. De Koning, and W. Harder, Dihydroxacetone Synthase from Candida boidinii KD1. L.V. Bystrykh, W. De Koning, and W. Harder, Triokinase from Candida boidinii KD1. K.H. Hoffmann and W. Babel, Glycerone Kinase from Candida methylica. N. Kato, Formaldehyde Dehydrogenase from Methylotrophic Yeasts. N. Kato, Formate Dehydrogenase from Methylotrophic Yeasts. M. Ueda, S. Mozaffar, and A. Tanaka, Catalase from Candida boidinii 2201. Each chapter includes references. Author Index. Subject Index.
To date, cis,cis-muconic acid (ccMA) has been produced from multiple types of carbon sources including carbohydrates and aromatic compounds via cultivation with genetically engineered microbes [1] . Accurate analysis of muconic acid has previously been a challenge due to ccMA isomerization into cis,trans-muconic acid (ctMA). Isomerization of muconic acid from ccMA to ctMA appears to be initiated by a drop in pH (below 7) and/or with the addition of heat. Heat also leads to the creation of side products such as muconolactone (Mlac) and tetrahydrofuro [3,2-b] furan-2,5-dione (Lac2) (see Appendices Figure 1 ).
Chloromuconolactone dehalogenase ClcF plays a unique role in 3-chlorocatechol degradation by Rhodococcus opacus 1CP by compensating the inability of its chloromuconate cycloisomerase ClcB2 to dechlorinate the chemically stable cycloisomerization product (4R,5S)-5-chloromuconolactone (5CML). High sequence similarities showed relatedness of ClcF to muconolactone isomerases (MLIs, EC 5.3.3.4) of the 3-oxoadipate pathway. Although both enzyme types share the ability to dechlorinate 5CML, comparison of kcat/Km indicated a significant extent of specialization of ClcF for dechlorination. This assumption was substantiated by an almost complete inability of ClcF to convert (4S)-muconolactone and the exclusive formation of cis-dienelactone from 5CML. Mutational analysis of ClcF by means of variants E27D, E27Q, Y50A, N52A, and A89S indicated relevance of some highly conserved residues for substrate binding and catalysis. Based on the putative isomerization mechanism of MLI, evidence was provided for a role of E27 in initial proton abstraction as well as of Y50 and N52 in substrate binding. In case of N52 substrate binding is likely to occur to the carboxylic group of 5CML as indicated by a significant change of product specificity. Expression in Escherichia coli BL21-CP(DE)-RIL followed by a three-step purification procedure with heat treatment is a convenient strategy to obtain recombinant ClcF and variants thereof.
5-Chloromuconolactone dehalogenase (5-CMLD) is a unique enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of 5-chloromuconolactone into cis-dienelactone in the new modified ortho-pathway of the 3-chlorocatechol degradation by Rhodococcus opacus 1CP. In all other known chlorocatechol pathways the dehalogenation is a spontaneous secondary reaction of the unstable chloromuconate intermediate following the lactonization process catalyzed by the muconate cycloisomerases. The crystallographic structure of the decameric 5-CMLD was solved by Molecular Replacement, using the coordinates of the low resolution structure of the highly homologous muconolactone isomerase, an enzyme of the conventional ortho-pathway. Muconolactone isomerase catalyzes the endocyclic rearrangement of the double bond within the lactone ring of muconolactone to yield 3-oxoadipate enol lactone. Although both 5-CMLD and muconolactone isomerase share the ability to dechlorinate 5-chloromuconolactone, 5-CMLD shows a significant degree of specialization, having lost the capacity to convert its original substrate muconolactone. The active site of 5-CMLD was previously hypothesized to reside in a deep pocket at the interface of two different subunits, on the basis of a muconolactone isomerase structure analysis. In this study we also performed molecular docking calculations that confirmed these previous findings, and allowed us furthermore to determine the residues involved in the catalytic process.
Muconate cycloisomerase (MCI) was purified from Rhodococcus rhodochrous 89 grown on phenol. The enzyme appears to contain two different type subunits with molecular masses 35.5 and 37 kD. The N-terminal amino acid sequence of both subunits showed more similarity to corresponding enzymes from gram-negative bacteria than to one from Rhodococcus opacus 1CP. MCI from R. rhodochrous 89, like analogous enzymes from gram-negative bacteria, can convert 2-chloromuconate (2-CM) with the formation of both, 2- and 5-chloromuconolactones (CML) as intermediates. Nevertheless, its unique ability to convert 5-CML to cis- but not to trans-dienelactone sets it apart from all known chloromuconate cycloisomerases from gram-negative and gram-positive bacteria.
The NCBI Prokaryotic Genome Annotation Pipeline (http: //www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/genome/annotation_prok/) predicted the benzene 1,2-dioxygenase, vanillate monooxygenase, catechol 1,2-dioxygenase (catA), homogentisate 1,2-dioxygenase, and 4-hydroxybenzoate 3-monooxygenase genes. The cum gene cluster (4) for isopropylbenze (cumene) degradation was present. This cluster is 99% similar to that of P. fluorescens, accession number D37828. P. frederiksbergensis SI8 showed at least 71% homology with twenty of the twenty one genes, with the exception of ditE, of the dit cluster for abietane diterpenoids catabolism of P. abietaniphila, accession number AF119621 (5). Additionally, the genes encoding protocatechuate 3,4-dioxygenase (ligA and ligB), 3-carboxymuconate cycloisomerase, and 4-carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase, of the central protocatechuate catabolic pathway for aromatic degradation were observed (6). The gentisate 1,2-dioxygenase (gdo) gene essential for the gentisate catabolic pathway of polycyclic aromatics was not detected (6). Important hydrocarbon degradation genes encoding 2,4-dichlorophenol 6-monooxygenase, alkanesulfonate monooxygenase, 2-polyprenyl-6-methoxyphenol hydroxylase, aminobenzoate oxygenase, and 2-nitropropane dioxygenase were observed. A gene cluster with at least 80% homology to the ttg2 operon encoding an ABC-type transporter essential for toluene resistance in P. Putida and P. aeruginosa, was observed (7, 8) . The alkB genes were not detected, explaining its inability to degrade n-alkanes. This genome will provide valuable insight into the genetics and metabolism of hydrocarbon-degrading psychrotrophic bacteria.
Pseudomonas reinekei MT1 has previously been reported to degrade 4- and 5-chlorosalicylate by a pathway with 4-chlorocatechol, 3-chloromuconate, 4-chloromuconolactone, and maleylacetate as intermediates, and a gene cluster channeling various salicylates into an intradiol cleavage route has been reported. We now report that during growth on 5-chlorosalicylate, besides a novel (chloro)catechol 1,2-dioxygenase, C12O(ccaA), a novel (chloro)muconate cycloisomerase, MCI(ccaB), which showed features not yet reported, was induced. This cycloisomerase, which was practically inactive with muconate, evolved for the turnover of 3-substituted muconates and transforms 3-chloromuconate into equal amounts of cis-dienelactone and protoanemonin, suggesting that it is a functional intermediate between chloromuconate cycloisomerases and muconate cycloisomerases. The corresponding genes, ccaA (C12O(ccaA)) and ccaB (MCI(ccaB)), were located in a 5.1-kb genomic region clustered with genes encoding trans-dienelactone hydrolase (ccaC) and maleylacetate reductase (ccaD) and a putative regulatory gene, ccaR, homologous to regulators of the IclR-type family. Thus, this region includes genes sufficient to enable MT1 to transform 4-chlorocatechol to 3-oxoadipate. Phylogenetic analysis showed that C12O(ccaA) and MCI(ccaB) are only distantly related to previously described catechol 1,2-dioxygenases and muconate cycloisomerases. Kinetic analysis indicated that MCI(ccaB) and the previously identified C12O(salD), rather than C12O(ccaA), are crucial for 5-chlorosalicylate degradation. Thus, MT1 uses enzymes encoded by a completely novel gene cluster for degradation of chlorosalicylates, which, together with a gene cluster encoding enzymes for channeling salicylates into the ortho-cleavage pathway, form an effective pathway for 4- and 5-chlorosalicylate mineralization.
The conversion of 3-carboxymuconolactone (2) into 3-oxoadipic acid (5), catalysed by a cell-free preparation from Neurospora crassa, has been shown, by deuterium labelling, to involve an intramolecular, 1,3-suprafacial hydrogen shift consistent with an initial, allylic isomerisation of the substrate.
Pseudomonas reinekei MT1 has previously been described to degrade 4-and 5-2 chlorosalicylate by a pathway with 4-chlorocatechol, 3-chloromuconate, 4-3 chloromuconolactone and maleylacetate as intermediates and a gene cluster channeling 4 various salicylates into an intradiol cleavage route has been reported. We now report that 5 during growth on 5-chlorosalicylate, besides a novel (chloro)catechol 1,2-dioxygenase, 6 C12O ccaA , a novel (chloro)muconate cycloisomerase MCI ccaB was induced which showed 7
Pseudomonas aeruginosa RW41 is the first bacterial strain, which could be isolated by virtue of its capability to mineralize 4-chlorobenzenesulfonic acid (4CBSA), the major polar by-product of the chemical synthesis of 1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis-(4-chlorophenyl)ethane (DDT). This capability makes the isolate a promising candidate for the development of bioremediation technologies. The bacterial mineralization of 4CBSA proceeds under oxygenolytic desulfonation and transient accumulation of sulfite which then is oxidized to sulfate. High enzyme activities for the turnover of 4-chlorocatechol were measured. The further catabolism proceeded through 3-chloromuconate and, probably, the instable 4-chloromuconolactone, which is directly hydrolyzed to maleylacetate. Detectable levels of maleylacetate reductase were only present when cells were grown with 4CBSA. When the ordinary catechol pathway was induced during growth on benzenesulfonate, catechol was ortho-cleaved to cis,cis-muconate and a partially purified muconate cycloisomerase transformed it to muconolactone in vitro. The same enzyme transformed 3-chloro-cis,cis-muconate into cis-dienelactone (76%) and the antibiotically active protoanemonin (24%). These observations are indicative for a not yet highly evolved catabolism for halogenated substrates by bacterial isolates from environmental samples which, on the other hand, are able to productively recycle sulfur and chloride ions from synthetic haloorganosulfonates.
The protocatechuate and catechol pathways, two separate and parallel branches of the ..beta..-ketoadipate pathway in Pseudomonas putida, converge at a common intermediate - ..beta..-ketoadipate enol-lactone. The enol-lactone is generated by 4-carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase in the protocatechuate pathway while muconolactone isomerase produces it in the catechol pathway. The presence of these enzymes as well as ..beta..-carboxymuconate cycloisomerase and its substrate, ..beta..-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate, in a NMR tube, leads to the following sequence of events. Lactonization of ..beta..-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate produces 4-carboxymuconolactone which decarboxylates enzymatically with deuteration by D/sub 2/O to afford 2-(/sup 2/H)-4-ketoadipate enol-lactone - the substrate for muconolactone isomerase. Further conversion of the monodeuterated enol-lactone by muconolactone isomerase affords muconolactone which is nearly completely deuterated at the 4 position. The proton ricochets between the 2 and 4 positions with concurrent washout while in the 2 position. Based on the known absolute stereochemistry of 4-carboxymuconolactone and muconolactone, these results suggest that both the decarboxylase and isomerase proceed by syn mechanisms, but operate on opposite faces of the common enol-lactone substrate.
1. Halogen analogues of p-nitrobenzoate and benzoate were oxidized by washed cells of Nocardia erythropolis. 2. The oxidation of 2-fluoro-4-nitrobenzoate ceased at the level of acetate, and fluoroacetate was found in the incubation medium and particularly in hot-ethanolic extracts of the cells. 3. Several fluorine-containing intermediates were detected and 2-fluoroprotocatechuate was identified as one of them. 4. The nitro group was also reduced by the organism, as evidenced by the formation of 4-amino-2-fluorobenzoate. 5. Extracts of N. erythropolis activated fluoroacetate and condensed the resulting fluoroacetyl-CoA with oxaloacetate to form fluorocitrate. This product was a very powerful inhibitor of citrate metabolism by guinea-pig kidney homogenates and of the aconitase also present in the bacterial extracts. The inhibitions effected by synthetic fluorocitrate and the natural product were comparable. 6. 2-Fluoro-4-nitrobenzoate had negligible mammalian toxicity. 7. The isolation of fluoroacetate as a product of 2-fluoro-4-nitrobenzoate oxidation implies that the aromatic ring in this bacterium must be degraded via a gamma-carboxymuconolactone; fluoroacetate cannot arise by metabolism through the isomeric beta-carboxymuconolactone.
Abstract Study of the regulation of the syntheses of enzymes of the catechol and protocatechuate pathways in Pseudomonas putida has shown that two groups of enzymes are subject to coordinate control. cis,cis-Muconate-lactonizing enzyme and muconolactone isomerase, which are uniquely associated with the catechol pathway, constitute the first coordinate block of enzymes. The synthesis of these enzymes, as well as that of catechol oxygenase (which is regulated independently), seems to be induced by cis,cis-muconate. The second coordinate block of enzymes comprises β-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate-lactonizing enzyme and γ-carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase, which are uniquely associated with the protocatechuate pathway, and β-ketoadipate enol-lactone hydrolase, which is functional in both the protocatechuate and the catechol pathways. This group of enzymes seems to be induced by β-ketoadipate or β-ketoadipyl coenzyme A. Moraxella lwoffii, which degrades protocatechuate and catechol through identical step-reactions, regulates the synthesis of the enzymes mediating these conversions by a different mechanism.
Abstract An aromatic 3,4-oxygenase with a broad spectrum of substrate specificity has been partially purified from acetone-dried powders of the fungus, Tilletiopsis washingtonensis . The enzyme catalyzed the oxidation of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, 3,4-dihydroxymandelic acid, 3,4-dihydroxycinnamic acid, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylpropionic acid and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine. The lactone of the primary fission product of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (β- carboxymethyl -cis-cis muconic acid ) was isolated as a dimethyl ester and identified as β- carboxymethylmuconolactone .
To investigate the possible role of molecular mimicry to bacterial components in multiple sclerosis (MS) pathogenesis we examined antibody responses to mimicry peptide sequences of Acinetobacter, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and myelin components. Antibodies to mimicry peptides from Acinetobacter (p<0.001), P. aeruginosa (p<0.001), myelin basic protein (MBP) (p<0.001) and myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) (p<0.001) were significantly elevated in MS patients compared to controls. Antisera against MBP (residues 110–124) reacted with both Acinetobacter and Pseudomonas peptides from 4- and gcarboxymuconolactone decarboxylase, respectively. MOG (residues 43–57) antisera reacted with Acinetobacter peptide from 3-oxoadipate-CoA-transferase subunit A. The role of these bacteria in MS is unclear but demonstrates that molecular mimicry is not restricted to viruses suggesting bacterial infections could play a role in MS pathogenesis. Further work is required to evaluate the relevance of these cross-reactive antibodies to the neuropathology of MS. D 2003 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Models of organochlorine compounds present in bleached kraft pulp mill effluent, with well-defined structure, can be used to provide information on the relationship between their chemical structure and their behavior toward biological dechlorination. The biological dechlorination of three monomeric model compounds, 4-methyl-5-chloromuconolactone monomethyl ester (MCME), 2-chloro-3-methylmuconolactone (CMML), and 3-chloro-4-methylcatechol (CMCA), and a dimeric model, 2-(4‘-methyl-2‘-muconylmethyl)-3-chloro-4-methylmuconic acid dilactone (CMDL), were studied. The first two monomers are products of simulated bleaching reactions (sequentially with ClO2 and NaOH) using a monomeric model compound of residual lignin, 4-methylguaiacol (MG), and are considered to be monomeric models of organochlorines in the ClO2 bleachery effluents. Similarly, the dimer model is a product of a dimeric lignin model reacting with ClO2 and NaOH and is considered to be a model of organochlorines of higher molecular weight. CMCA was c...
Muconolactone isomerase (EC 5.3.3.4) and beta-ketoadipate enol-lactone hydrolase (EC 3.1.1.24) mediate consecutive catabolic steps in bacteria. Separately inducible beta-ketoadipate enol-lactone hydrolases I and II are formed in representatives of Acinetobacter calcoaceticus. When subjected to DEAE-cellulose chromatography, Acinetobacter enol-lactone hydrolase I displays heterogeneous behavior which, in whole or in part, appears to be due to modifications of sulfhydryl groups in the protein; the enzyme is unusual in that its NH2-terminal amino acid is cysteine. Comparison of the NH2-terminal amino acid sequence of Acinetobacter enollactone hydrolase I, reported here, with the corresponding amino acid sequences of Acinetobacter enollactone hydrolase II and Pseudomonas enol-lactone hydrolase indicates that all three proteins have diverged widely from a common evolutionary origin. Sequence comparisons suggest that divergence of the Acinetobacter enol-lactone hydrolase structural genes was achieved by substitution with DNA derived from an ancestral muconolactone isomerase structural gene.
The protocatechuate branch of the beta-ketoadipate pathway comprises the last six enzymatic steps in the catabolism of diverse phenolic compounds to citric acid cycle intermediates. In this paper, the regulation and tight supraoperonic clustering of the protocatechuate (pca) genes from Agrobacterium tumefaciens A348 are elucidated. A previous study found that the pcaD gene is controlled by an adjacent regulatory gene, pcaQ, which encodes an activator. The activator responded to beta-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate and was shown to control the synthesis of at least three genes (pcaD and pcaHG). In this work, eight genes required for the catabolism of protocatechuate were localized within a 13.5-kb SalI region of DNA. Isolation and characterization of transposon Tn5 mutant strains facilitated the localization of pca genes. Five structural genes were found to respond to the tricarboxylic acid and to be contiguous in an operon transcribed in the order pcaDCHGB. These genes encode enzymes beta-ketoadipate enol-lactone hydrolase, gamma-carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase, protocatechuate 3,4-dioxygenase (pcaHG), and beta-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate lactonizing enzyme, respectively. Approximately 4 kb from the pcaD gene are the pcaIJ genes, which encode beta-ketoadipate succinyl-coenzyme A transferase for the next-to-last step of the pathway. The pcaIJ genes are transcribed divergently from the pcaDCHGB operon and are expressed in response to beta-ketoadipate. The pattern of induction of pca genes by beta-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate and beta-ketoadipate in A. tumefaciens is similar to that observed in Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. trifolii and is distinct from induction patterns for the genes from other microbial groups.
Enzyme-catalysed cyclisation of 3-methyl-cis,cis-muconic acids proceeds by syn addition of carboxyl groups to double bonds to form (4S)-3-methylmuconolactone in Aspergillus niger and (4S)-4-methylmuconolactone in Pseudomonas putida.
New natural products, designated pochoniolides A and B, were isolated from the cultured broth of fungal strain FKI-7537 using a physicochemical screening methodology. Strain FKI-7537 was isolated from a soil sample collected at Niijima, Tokyo, Japan and identified as Pochonia chlamydosporia var. spinulospora by morphological characteristics and DNA sequence analysis. The chemical structures of pochoniolides A and B were elucidated by NMR and mass spectra and found to be new compounds consisting of a muconolactone moiety connected with a chromone unit. Pochoniolides A and B were identified as racemate mixtures using data on optical rotation and circular dichroism spectra. Furthermore, enantiomers of pochoniolide B, pochoniolides B1 and B2, were separated using a chiral HPLC column. Pochoniolides A and B showed hydroxyl radical-scavenging and singlet oxygen-quenching activities.
BACKGROUND ::: Extensive use of phenolic compounds in industry has resulted in the generation of saline wastewaters that produce significant environmental contamination; however, little information is available on the degradation of phenolic compounds in saline conditions. Halomonas organivorans G-16.1 (CECT 5995(T)) is a moderately halophilic bacterium that we isolated in a previous work from saline environments of South Spain by enrichment for growth in different pollutants, including phenolic compounds. PCR amplification with degenerate primers revealed the presence of genes encoding ring-cleaving enzymes of the β-ketoadipate pathway for aromatic catabolism in H. organivorans. ::: ::: ::: FINDINGS ::: The gene cluster catRBCA, involved in catechol degradation, was isolated from H. organivorans. The genes catA, catB, catC and the divergently transcribed catR code for catechol 1,2-dioxygenase (1,2-CTD), cis,cis-muconate cycloisomerase, muconolactone delta-isomerase and a LysR-type transcriptional regulator, respectively. The benzoate catabolic genes (benA and benB) are located flanking the cat genes. The expression of cat and ben genes by phenol and benzoic acid was shown by RT-PCR analysis. The induction of catA gene by phenol and benzoic acid was also probed by the measurement of 1,2-CTD activity in H. organivorans growth in presence of these inducers. 16S rRNA and catA gene-based phylogenies were established among different degrading bacteria showing no phylogenetic correlation between both genes. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE ::: In this work, we isolated and determined the sequence of a gene cluster from a moderately halophilic bacterium encoding ortho-pathway genes involved in the catabolic metabolism of phenol and analyzed the gene organization, constituting the first report characterizing catabolic genes involved in the degradation of phenol in moderate halophiles, providing an ideal model system to investigate the potential use of this group of extremophiles in the decontamination of saline environments.
Abstract. Optically active (-)-3-methylmuconolactone was biologically produced using a mutant strain of Rhodococcus rhodochrous N75 that is capable of metabolizing 4-methylcatechol via a modified ortho-cleavage pathway. The mutant strain (CJ30) was prepared by mutagenesis using N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine and found to be blocked in the degradation of 3-methylmuconolactone. Cells of the mutant CJ30, which had been previously grown on yeast extract and induced with p-toluate, transformed p-toluate (11.5 mM) to optically active (-)-3-methylmuconolactone with a yield of 53%. The structure of 3-methylmuconolactone was confirmed by NMR spectroscopy and mass spectrometry. Cell-free extracts of R. rhodochrous N75 also transformed a range of 4-alkylcatechols, such as 4-ethylcatechol, 4-iso-propylcatechol, and 4-tert-butylcatechol, to the corresponding 4-alkyl-substituted muconolactones.
Two bacterial strains, in consortium, were isolated by enrichment techniques from municipal waste-contaminated soil, which utilized butyl benzyl phthalate (BBP) as the sole carbon source. One of the isolates was identified as Arthrobacter sp. strain WY and the other one as Acinetobacter sp. strain FW based on the morphological, nutritional and biochemical characteristics and 16S rRNA sequence analysis. Various metabolites of BBP engendered by Arthrobacter sp. strain WY were isolated and identified by a combination of chromatographic and spectrophotometric analyses, which revealed a pathway involving monobutylphthalate (MBuP), monobenzyl phthalate (MBzP), phthalic acid and protocatechuic acid. The protocatechuic acid in turn was processed by ortho-cleavage dioxygenase to form beta-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate, ultimately leading to the TCA cycle. The Arthrobacter sp. strain WY could not utilize the hydrolyzed alcohols of BBP. On the other hand, the Acinetobacter sp. strain FW, which by itself could not utilize BBP as the sole carbon source, is capable of utilizing the hydrolyzed alcohols of BBP. Benzyl alcohol was found to be metabolized by the Acinetobacter sp. strain FW via benzaldehyde, benzoic acid and catechol. Catechol was further degraded by ortho-cleavage dioxygenase to cis,cis-muconic acid and subsequently to muconolactone leading to beta-ketoadipate pathway. Moreover, the Acinetobacter sp. strain FW metabolized 1-butanol through butyraldehyde and butyric acid leading to the tricarboxylic acid cycle via beta-oxidation pathway. This is the first report on the complete degradation of BBP by a defined consortium describing the role of its individual constituents in the BBP assimilation pathway.
The crystal structure of muconolactone isomerase from Pseudomonas putida, a unique molecule with ten 96 amino acid subunits and 5-fold, and 2-fold symmetries, has been solved at 3.3 A resolution. The non-crystallographic symmetries were used to refine the initial single isomorphous replacement phases and produce an interpretable 10-fold averaged map. The backbone trace is complete and confirmed by the amino acid sequence fit. Each subunit is composed of a body with two alpha-helices and an antiparallel twisted beta-sheet of four strands, and an extended arm. The helices and the sheet fold to form a two-layered structure with an enclosed hydrophobic core and a partially formed putative active site pocket. The C-terminal arm of another subunit related by a local dyad symmetry extends over the core to complete this pocket. The decameric protein is almost spherical, with the helices forming the external coat. There is a large hydrophilic cavity in the center with open ends along the 5-fold axis. Molecular interactions between subunits are extensive. Each subunit contacts four neighbors and loses nearly 40% of its solvent contact area on oligomerization.
The TT1485 gene from Thermus thermophilus HB8 encodes a hypothetical protein of unknown function with about 20 sequence homologs of bacterial or archaeal origin. Together they form a family of uncharacterized proteins, the cluster of orthologous group COG3253. Using a combination of amino acid sequence analysis, three-dimensional structural studies and biochemical assays, we identified TT1485 as a novel heme-binding protein. The crystal structure reveals that this protein is a pentamer and each monomer exhibits a β-barrel fold. TT1485 is structurally similar to muconolactone isomerase, but this provided no functional clues. Amino acid sequence analysis revealed remote homology to a heme enzyme, chlorite dismutase. Strikingly, amino acid residues that are highly conserved in the homologous hypothetical proteins and chlorite dismutase cluster around a deep cavity on the surface of each monomer. Molecular modeling shows that the cavity can accommodate a heme group with a strictly conserved His as a heme ligand. TT1485 reconstituted with iron protoporphyrin IX chloride gave a low chlorite dismutase activity, indicating that TT1485 catalyzes a reaction other than chlorite degradation. The presence of a possible Fe–His–Asp triad in the heme proximal site suggests that TT1485 functions as a novel heme peroxidase to detoxify hydrogen peroxide within the cell.
2,3-, 2,4-, 2,5-, 3,4-, and 3,5-dimethylphenols were cometabolized by 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetate-grown Alcaligenes eutrophus JMP 134 or the constitutive derivative JMP 134-1 via the ortho pathway into dimethylmuconolactones as dead-end products. Formation of two distinct lactones from 3,4-dimethylphenol is indicative of 2- as well as 6-hydroxylation. Induction of the meta-cleavage pathway by 2,3- and 3,4-dimethylphenols resulted in growth and no accumulation of products. In contrast, 3,5-dimethylphenol is not metabolized by the meta-cleavage pathway.
Previous work demonstrated that catabolism of the phenolic compounds p-hydroxybenzoate and protocatechuate via the beta-ketoadipate pathway in Agrobacterium tumefaciens is mediated by a regulatory gene, pcaQ, that acts in trans to elicit expression of many of the enzymes encoded by the pca genes. There was evidence that five pca structural genes are organized in a polycistronic operon transcribed in the order pcaDCHGB. The pcaQ gene is upstream of this operon. The activator encoded by pcaQ was novel in having the metabolite beta-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate as a coinducer. This communication reports the nucleotide sequence of pcaQ and identifies its deduced polypeptide product as a member of the LysR family of regulatory molecules. PcaQ has a calculated molecular weight of 33,546, which is consistent with the size of LysR relatives. Like many other LysR members, PcaQ serves as an activator at the level of transcription, it has a conserved amino-terminal domain, and its gene is transcribed divergently from the operon that it regulates and is subject to negative autoregulation. Studies of coinducer specificity identified an unstable pathway metabolite, gamma-carboxymuconolactone, as a second coinducer. Analysis of expression from a pcaD::lacZ promoter probe plasmid revealed that PcaQ and the coinducer exert their effect on a 133-nucleotide region upstream of pcaD. The nucleotide sequence of this region in a mutant strain constitutive for enzymes encoded by the pcaDCHGB operon identified nucleotides likely to be involved in the pcaDCHGB promoter and substantiated the inclusion of five pca structural genes in the operon.
Complement fixation, which depends on complementarity between the antibody receptor sites and the several antigenic determinants on the surface of a protein molecule, has been used to analyze relationships among several mammalian proteins, including serum albumins (18), carbonic anhydrases (16), lysozymes (1), growth hormones (23), cytochromes (10), and hemoglobins (24), and bacterial proteins such as tryptophan synthetases (15), muconate lactonizing enzymes, muconolactone isomerases (22), and alkaline phosphatases (2). In this study we have surveyed the serological activities of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) polymerases from several bacterial species as well as of three different types of DNA polymerases.
The chromosomal genes of P. putida which code for the enzymes that catabolize benzoate to 3-ketoadipate have been cloned and characterized (1, 2, 34, 35). Figure 1A shows that the catBC operon encodes the enzymes cis,cismuconate lactonizing enzyme and muconolactone isomerase, respectively. Early studies demonstrated that growth on benzoate increased the levels of all 3-ketoadipate enzymes (20, 22, 34, 35 considerable homology to the LysR family of regulatory proteins (13, 24).
The catabolism of 4-fluorobenzoate (4FB) by Pseudomonas strain B13 was proposed by Schreiber et al. (46) to proceed via 4-fluorocatechol and 3-fluoro-cis,cis-muconate to a supposedly unstable fluoromuconolactone, which by spontaneous HF elimination should yield the cis-dienelactone (Fig. 1) If these observations also apply to other bacteria, the growth of benzoate-utilizing strains with 4FB should indicate the presence of dienelactone hydrolase and maleylacetate reductase independent of the ability to induce catechol 1,2-dioxygenase type II and chloromuconate cycloisomerase. Since the occurrence of enzymes of the modified ortho-pathway independently of each other could be of interest for the evolution of this degradative route, we checked several benzoate-utilizing strains for their ability to grow with 4FB and assayed some of the enzyme activities induced.
2,3-Dihydroxybenzoic acid has been shown to be oxidized via the 3-oxoadipate pathway in the leaves of Tecoma stans. The formation of 2-carboxy-cis,cis-muconic acid, a muconolactone, 3-oxoadipic acid and carbon dioxide during its metabolism has been demonstrated using an extract of Tecoma leaves. The first reaction of the pathway, viz., the conversion of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoate to 2-carboxy-cis,cis-muconic acid has been shown to be catalysed by an enzyme designated as 2,3-dihydroxybenzoate 2,3-oxygenase. The enzyme has been partially purified and a few of its properties studied. The enzyme is very labile with a half-life of 3--4 h. It is maximally active with 2,3-dihydroxybenzoate as the substrate and does not exhibit any activity with catechol, 4-methyl catechol, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, etc. However, 2,3-dihydroxy-p-toluate and 2,3-dihydroxy-p-cumate are also oxidized by the enzyme by about 38% and 28% respectively, compared to 2,3-dihydroxybenzoate. Sulfhydryl reagents inhibit the enzyme reaction and the inhibition can be prevented by preincubation of the enzyme with the substrate. Substrate also affords protection to the enzyme against thermal inactivation. Sulfhydryl compounds strongly inhibit the reaction and the inhibition cannot be prevented by preincubation of the enzyme with its substrates. Data on the effect of metal ions as well as metal chelating agents suggest that copper is the metal cofactor of the enzyme. Evidence is presented which suggests that iron may not be participating in the overall catalytic mechanism.
Lpg0406, a hypothetical protein from Legionella pneumophila, belongs to carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase (CMD) family. We determined the crystal structure of lpg0406 both in its apo and reduced form. The structures reveal that lpg0406 forms a hexamer and have disulfide exchange properties. The protein has an all-helical fold with a conserved thioredoxin-like active site CXXC motif and a proton relay system similar to that of alkylhydroperoxidase from Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MtAhpD), suggesting that lpg0406 might function as an enzyme with peroxidase activity and involved in antioxidant defense. A comparison of the size and the surface topology of the putative substrate-binding region between lpg0406 and MtAhpD indicates that the two enzymes accommodate the different substrate preferences. The structural findings will enhance understanding of the CMD family protein structure and its various functions.
Experiments with 4-methyl[3,5,6-2H3]pyrocatechol 7 have shown that the product of its enzymic oxygenation, 3-methyl-cis,cis-muconic acid 8, undergoes enzymic cyclisation by syn addition of carboxy groups to distal double bonds to form the (S)-4-methylmuconolactone 9 in the bacterium Pseudomonas putida and the (S)-3-methylmuconolactone 11 in the fungus Aspergillus niger. Similarly, syn cyclisation of the cis,cis-muconic acid 15 has been shown to occur in A. niger to form the (S)-muconolactone 16. The relative and absolute stereochemistries of enzymic cycloisomerisation of muconic, 3-carboxymuconic and 3-methylmuconic acid in bacteria and fungi are here compared and discussed.
Chlorocatechol 1,2-dioxygenase (CC 1,2-DO), chloromuconate cycloisomerase (CMCI), chloromuconolactone isomerase (CMLI), and dienolactone hydrolase (DELH), the key enzymes of a new modified ortho-pathway in Rhodococcus opacus 1CP cells utilizing 2-chlorophenol via a 3-chlorocatechol branch of a modified ortho-pathway, were isolated and characterized. CC 1,2-DO showed the maximum activity with 3-chlorocatechol; its activity with catechol and 4-chlorocatechol was 93 and 50%, respectively. The enzyme of the studied pathway had physicochemical properties intermediate between the pyrocatechase of ordinary and chlorocatechase of modified pathways described earlier for this strain. In contrast to the enzymes investigated earlier, CMCI of the new pathway exhibited high substrate specificity. The enzyme had Km for 2-chloromuconate of 142.86 μM, Vmax = 71.43 U/mg, pH optimum around 6.0, and temperature optimum at 65°C. CMCI converted 2-chloromuconate into 5-chloromuconolactone. CMLI converted 5-chloromuconolactone into cis-dienolactone used as a substrate by DELH; this enzyme did not convert trans-dienolactone. DELH had Km for cis-dienolactone of 200 μM, Vmax = 167 U/mg, pH optimum of 8.6, and temperature optimum of 40°C. These results confirm the existence of a new modified ortho-pathway for utilization of 2-chlorophenol by R. opacus 1CP.
The aniline-assimilating bacterium Frateuria species ANA-18 produced two catechol 1,2-dioxygenases, CD I and CD II, and two muconate cycloisomerases, MC I and MC II. The catA genes catA1 and catA2 encoding CD I and CD II, respectively, were cloned from a gene library of this bacterium. The catA1 gene was clustered with catB1 encoding MC I, catC1 encoding muconolactone isomerase (MI), catD encoding beta-ketoadipate enol-lactone hydrolase (ELH), and ORFR1 encoding a putative LysR-type regulator. The organization of these genes was ORFR1catB1C1D. The catA2 gene also constructed a gene cluster involving catB2 encoding MC II, catC2 encoding MI, and ORFR2 encoding a putative LysR-type regulator with the alignment of ORFR2catB2A2C2. The intergenic regions of ORFR1-catB1 and ORFR2-catB2 contained homologous sequences with the catR-catB intergenic region containing a repression binding site and activation binding site of CatR in Pseudomonas putida. These findings suggest that the two cat clusters were regulated independently in their expression. When a product of cloned catD was added to a reaction mixture containing beta-ketoadipate enol-lactone, beta-ketoadipate was produced. This observation showed that the cloned catD encoded ELH and was expressed in Escherichia coli. We found that Frateuria sp. ANA-18 had a large plasmid with a molecular size more than 100kb. Polymerase chain reaction amplifying partial catA genes and Southern hybridization analyses with probes containing catA genes were conducted, to examine the localization of the two catA genes. We concluded that the catA1 and catA2 genes were located on the chromosomal and large plasmid DNAs, respectively, in Frateuria sp. ANA-18.
The cyclisation of cis,cis-3-carboxymuconic acid 2, catalysed by the cycloisomerase enzyme of Neurospora crassa SY4a, has been shown to occur by syn addition of the 1 -carboxy group to the 4,5-double bond to give (S)-(–)-3-carboxymuconolactone 3. Thus, the absolute configuration of the lactone 3 was determined by ozonolysis to give (S)-malic (L-malic) acid. Furthermore, incubation of trisodium cis,cis-3-carboxy-5-deuteriomuconate 9 then ozonolysis of the derived lactone 28 gave (2S,3S)-3-deuteriomalic acid 29. This evidence for syn addition was confirmed by a complementary incubation of undeuteriated 3-carboxymuconate in deuterium oxide, giving the lactone 31 and hence (2S,3R)-3-deuteriomalic acid 32.The degradation of 3-carboxymuconolactone 3 by the multifunctional enzyme complex of Neurospora, to give 3-oxoadipic acid 5, has been studied with the deuteriated trisodium muconates 27, 14 and 20. The overall transformation has been found to involve an intramolecular, suprafacial 1,3-shift of hydrogen (or deuterium) from C-4 in the lactone to C-5 in the oxoadipic acid. The location and stereochemistry of deuterium in the oxoadipic acids 44 and 45 were established by conversion of these acids into the optically active 2-deuteriosuccinic acids 46 and 47, respectively. The 1,3-shift provides compelling evidence for the formation of the enol lactone 4 as an enzyme-bound intermediate. Successive enzymic hydrolysis and decarboxylation would then complete the biosynthesis of 3oxoadipic acid 5.
This report describes the isolation and preliminary characterization of a 5.0-kilobase-pair (kbp) EcoRI DNA restriction fragment carrying the catBCDE genes from Acinetobacter calcoaceticus. The respective genes encode enzymes that catalyze four consecutive reactions in the catechol branch of the beta-ketoadipate pathway: catB, muconate lactonizing enzyme (EC 5.5.1.1); catC, muconolactone isomerase (EC 5.3.3.4); catD, beta-ketoadipate enol-lactone hydrolase (EC 3.1.1.24); and catE, beta-ketoadipate succinyl-coenzyme A transferase (EC 2.8.3.6). In A. calcoaceticus, pcaDE genes encode products with the same enzyme activities as those encoded by the respective catDE genes. In Pseudomonas putida, the requirements for both catDE and pcaDE genes are met by a single set of genes, designated pcaDE. A P. putida mutant with a dysfunctional pcaE gene was used to select a recombinant pKT230 plasmid carrying the 5.0-kbp EcoRI restriction fragment containing the A. calcoaceticus catE structural gene. The recombinant plasmid, pAN1, complemented P. putida mutants with lesions in catB, catC, pcaD, and pcaE genes; the complemented activities were expressed constitutively in the recombinant P. putida strains. After introduction into Escherichia coli, the pAN1 plasmid expressed the activities constitutively but at much lower levels that those found in the P. putida transformants or in fully induced cultures of A. calcoaceticus or P. putida. When placed under the control of a lac promoter on a recombinant pUC13 plasmid in E. coli, the A. calcoaceticus restriction fragment expressed catBCDE activities at levels severalfold higher than those found in fully induced cultures of A. calcoaceticus. Thus there is no translational barrier to expression of the A. calcoaceticus genes at high levels in E. coli. The genetic origin of the cloned catBCDE genes was demonstrated by the fact that the 5.0-kbp EcoRI restriction fragment hybridized with a corresponding fragment from wild-type A. calcoaceticus DNA. This fragment was missing in DNA from an A. calcoaceticus mutant in which the cat genes had been removed by deletion. The properties of the cloned fragment demonstrate physical linkage of the catBCDE genes and suggest that they are coordinately transcribed.
Lignin is a major component of lignocellulosic biomass and could be an important renewable feedstock in industry for the production of (aromatic) bulk and fine chemicals. To this end, the development of new catalytic processes is required; both to depolymerise the biopolymer into small aromatic building blocks, as well as to further convert these to valuable products. A major challenge in lignin depolymerisation is the recondensation of reactive fragments back to larger, more recalcitrant, fragments. In this thesis, this was circumvented by employing a tandem catalytic depolymerisation procedure. One catalyst, a water-stable Lewis acid, such as scandium triflate, was shown to be responsible for cleaving ether bonds between the lignin monomers, while a second rhodium-based catalyst further converted the liberated small fragments to stable end-products. The rhodium catalyst was shown to have two possible modes of action and the interplay between both catalyst components was shown to be crucial for determining the ultimate product selectivity. Consequently the desired product streams could be chosen: when using a weak Lewis acid, the major products of depolymerisation were 4-(1-propenyl)phenols, whereas when using strong Lewis acids, the major products were 4-methylphenols. The selective oxidation of catechol was studied as a potential route for valorisation of small lignin-derived aromatics. Using an iron(III) complex with a tris(2-pyridylmethyl)amine ligand as catalyst and molecular oxygen as the reagent, catechol could be readily and selectively converted to derivatives of cis,cis-muconic acid, under mild conditions (50 °C, atmospheric pressure of air). Further two-stage conversion by hydrogenation and transesterification, using commercially available supported catalysts, allowed the isolation of dimethyl adipate in 62% yield. A systematic investigation of the reaction conditions furthermore allowed the activity of the oxidation step to be increased 35-fold under optimal conditions (80 °C, 25 bar 5% O2 in N2, 0.1 mol% catalyst). The catalytic oxidative cleavage reaction was also demonstrated to work directly on catechols obtained from catalytic depolymerisation of candlenut lignin, although the yield of cleavage products found was lower in that case. In addition, the propyl substituent of the lignin-derived catechols drives isomerisation of the cis,cis-muconic acid, leading to significant formation of g-muconolactones instead. The mechanism of this unique and highly selective oxidative carbon-carbon cleavage reaction was investigated using a combined experimental and theoretical study. Based on the combined results, a mechanism is proposed where iron is able to act as a ‘redox’ buffer by taking on an intermediate spin state, enabling the spin-forbidden electron transfer from the catecholate moiety to oxygen. This leads to formation of a bridging peroxide intermediate, which undergoes facile homolytic splitting, leading to oxygen insertion into the aromatic catechol ring. The rate-determining step was found to be the formation of the bridging peroxide. Crucially, the experimentally observed effect of both substrate and ligand substitution was accurately reproduced by the computational study, lending credibility to the mechanism. Importantly, results on other ligand systems reported in literature can now also be understood using this mechanism.
We have refined to 2.3 A resolution two muconate cycloisomerase (MCIase) variant structures, F329I and I54V, that differ from each other and from wild-type in their activity toward cis,cis-muconate (CCM) and substituted CCMs. The working and free R-factors for F329I are 17.4/21.6% and for I54V, 17.6/22.3% with good stereochemistry. Except for the mutated residue, there are no significant changes in structure. To understand the differences in enzymatic properties we docked substituted CCMs and CCM into the active sites of the variants and wild type. The extra space the mutations create appears to account for most of the enzymatic differences. The lack of other structural changes explains why, although structurally equivalent changes occur in chloromuconate cycloisomerase (CMCIase), the changes in themselves do not convert a MCIase into a dehalogenating CMCIase. Reanalysis of the CMCIase structure revealed only one general acid/base, K169. The structural implication is that, in 2-chloro-CCM conversion by CMCIase, the lactone ring of 5-chloromuconolactone rotates before dehalogenation to bring the acidic C4 proton next to K169. Therefore, K169 alone performs both required protonation and deprotonation steps, the first at C5 as in MCIase, and the second, after ring rotation, at C4. This distinguishes CMCIase from α/β barrel isomerases and racemases, which use two different bases. Proteins 1999;34:125–136. © 1999 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
Protocatechuate is a universal growth substrate for members of the family Rhizobiaceae, and these bacteria utilize the aromatic compound via the beta-ketoadipate pathway. This report describes transcriptional controls exercised by different subgroups of the Rhizobiaceae over five enzymes that catalyze consecutive reactions in the pathway: protocatechuate oxygenase (EC 1.13.11.3), beta-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate lactonizing enzyme (EC 5.5.1.2), gamma-carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase (EC 4.1.1.44), beta-ketoadipate enol-lactone hydrolase (EC 3.1.1.24), and beta-ketoadipate succinyl-coenzyme A transferase (EC 2.8.3.6). All five enzymes were inducible in the fast-growing strains Agrobacterium rhizogenes, Agrobacterium tumefaciens, Rhizobium fredii, Rhizobium meliloti, Rhizobium leguminosarum, and Rhizobium trifolii. Specific activities in induced cells ranged from 5- to 100-fold greater than those found in uninduced cells. In contrast to the fast-growing strains and members of every other microbial taxon examined to date, the slow-growing Bradyrhizobium japonicum and cowpea Bradyrhizobium spp. constitutively expressed four of the five enzymes; protocatechuate oxygenase was the only inducible enzyme in this group. The slow-growing strains included different DNA homology groups, so it appears likely that constitutive expression of the four enzymes is a common trait in the bradyrhizobia. This property points to the importance of aromatic compounds and aromatic catabolites in the nutrition of these organisms.
Dienelactone hydrolases have previously been shown to play a crucial role in chlorocatechol degradation via the modified ortho cleavage pathway. Recently, the enzymes induced in 4-fluorobenzoate-utilizing bacteria have been classified into three groups on the basis of their specificity towards cis- and trans-dienelactone. The dienelactone hydrolase and the 3-oxoadipate enol-lactone hydrolase from Pseudomonas cepacia have now been purified to apparent homogeneity and characterized with respect to molecular mass and amino acid composition. The dienelactone hydrolase has a distinct preference for cis-dienelactone and did not convert the trans isomer or muconolactone, 3-oxoadipate enol-lactone, or 4-fluoromuconolactone to a significant extent. In properties like amino acid composition, pH optimum of activity, and lack of inhibition by p-chloromercuribenzoate, the P. cepacia dienelactone hydrolase differed substantially from 3-oxoadipate enol-lactone hydrolases and other dienelactone hydrolases.
Protocatechuate is a universal growth substrate for members of the family Rhizobiaceae, and these bacteria utilize the aromatic compound via the P-ketoadipate pathway. This report describes transcriptional controls exercised by different subgroups of the Rhizobiaceae over five enzymes that catalyze consecutive reactions in the pathway: protocatechuate oxygenase (EC 1.13.11.3), II-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate lactonizing enzyme (EC 5.5.1.2), -y-carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase (EC 4.1.1.44), I8-ketoadipate enol-lactone hydrolase (EC 3.1.1.24), and j3-ketoadipate succinyl-coenzyme A transferase (EC 2.8.3.6). All five enzymes were inducible in the fast-growing strains Agrobacterium rhizogenes, Agrobacterium tumefaciens, Rhizobium fredii, Rhizobium melilofi, Rhizobium leguminosarum, and Rhizobium trifolii. Specific activities in induced cells ranged from 5-to 100-fold greater than those found in uninduced cells. In contrast to the fast-growing strains and members of every other microbial taxon examined to date, the slow-growing Bradyrhizobium japonicum and cowpea Bradyrhizobium spp. constitutively expressed four of the five enzymes; protocatechuate oxygenase was the only inducible enzyme in this group. The slow-growing strains included different DNA homology groups, so it appears likely that constitutive expression of the four enzymes is a common trait in the bradyrhizobia. This property points to the importance of aromatic compounds and aromatic catabolites in the nutrition of these organisms.
In this study, the biodegradative activities of monocyclic aromatic compounds were determined from the multi-drug resistant (MDR) Acinetobacter baumannii, which were studied in the form of clinical isolates from a hospital in Korea. These bacteria were capable of biodegrading monocyclic aromatic compounds, such as benzoate and p-hydroxybenzoate. In order to determine which pathways are available for biodegradation in these stains, we conducted proteome analyses of benzoate and p-hydroxybenzoate-cultured A. baumannii DU202, using 2-DE/MS analysis. As genome DB of A. baumannii was not yet available, MS/MS analysis or de novo sequencing methods were employed in the identification of induced proteins. Benzoate branch enzymes [catechol 1,2-dioxygenase (CatA) and benzoate dioxygenase alpha subunit (BenA)] of the beta-ketoadipate pathway were identified under benzoate culture condition and p-hydroxybenzoate branch enzymes [protocatechuate 3,4-dioxygenase alpha subunit (PcaG) and 3-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate cycloisomerase (PcaB)] of the beta-ketoadipate pathway were identified under p-hydroxybenzoate culture condition, respectively, thereby suggesting that strain DU202 utilized the beta-ketoadipate pathway for the biodegradation of monocyclic aromatic compounds. The sequence analysis of two purified dioxygenases (CatA and PcaGH) indicated that CatA is closely associated with the CatA of Acinetobacter radiresistance, but PcaGH is only moderately associated with the PcaGH of Acinetobacter sp. ADP1. Interestingly, the fused form of PcaD and PcaC, carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase (PcaCD), was detected on benzoate-cultured A. baumannii DU202. These results indicate that A. baumannii DU202 exploits a different beta-ketoadipate pathway from other Acinetobacter species.
Primary and secondary kinetic and secondary equilibrium deuterium isotope effect studies on the cis,cis-muconate cycloisomerase catalyzed interconversion of cis,-cis-muconate (CCM) and (+)-muconolactone (ML) have been performed. The primary and solvent kinetic deuterium isotope effects upon Vmax for the reactions of (+)-[5R-2H]muconolactone in water (HOH) and (+)-muconolactone in deuterium oxide (DOD) to form cis,cis-muconate are about 2.5-2.6 with the heavier isotopic reactions being the slower ones. The secondary equilibrium isotope effect for the formation cis,-cis-[2,3,4,5-2H4] muconate from (+)-[2,3,4,5S-2H4]muconolactone is 1.32 for KH/KD = [( cis,cis-muconate]/[(+)-muconolactone])/ [(+)-[2,3,4,5S-2H4]muconolactone]) and agrees well with the measured value of 1.45 on the basis of the fumarase reaction [Cook, P. F., Blanchard, J. S., & Cleland, W. W. (1980) Biochemistry 19, 4853-4858]. The secondary kinetic deuterium isotope effect determined by the equilibrium perturbation method [Cleland, W. W. (1977) in Isotope Effects on Enzyme-Catalyzed Reactions (Cleland, W. W., O'Leary, M. H., & Northrop, D. B., Eds.) pp 153-175, University Park Press, Baltimore, MD] for the conversion of cis,cis-[2,3,4,5-2H4] muconate to (+)-[2,3,4,5S-2H4]muconolactone is 0.66, expressed as (VmaxCCM(H)/KmCCM(H]/(VmaxCCM(D)/KmCCM(D]. From the equilibrium and kinetic secondary deuterium isotope effects, the calculated value for the kinetic secondary deuterium isotope effect for the reverse reaction, (VmaxML(H)/KmML(H]/(VmaxML(D)/KmML(D], is about 0.96.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In the present study, the metabolic pathways involved in the degradation of benzyl alcohol and 1-butanol, the hydrolyzed products of butyl benzyl phthalate, were investigated by the Gordonia sp. strain MTCC 4818. The strain can utilize both benzyl alcohol and 1-butanol individually as sole carbon sources, where benzyl alcohol was found to be metabolized via benzaldehyde, benzoic acid and catechol, which was further degraded by ortho-cleavage dioxygenase to cis,cis-muconic acid and subsequently to muconolactone leading to tricarboxylic acid cycle. On the other hand, 1-butanol was metabolized via butyraldehyde and butyric acid, which was channeled into the tricarboxylic acid cycle via the beta-oxidation pathway. Numbers of dehydrogenases, both NAD+-dependent and NAD+-independent, were found to be involved in the degradation of benzyl alcohol and 1-butanol, where several dehydrogenases exhibited relaxed substrate specificity. Both 2,3- and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acids were utilized by the test organism for growth and metabolized by the ortho-cleavage pathway by the cell-free extract of benzoate-grown cells, similar to catechol, suggesting possible broad substrate specificity of the ring cleavage dioxygenase. Moreover, the test organism can utilize various primary and secondary alcohols, aliphatic aldehydes and acids in the C2-C5 range besides n-hexadecane, 1,4-butanediol and cyclohexanol individually as the sole carbon sources indicating metabolic diversity in the Gordonia sp. strain MTCC 4818.
Muconolactone isomerase is shown to be resistant to proteolytic cleavage by trypsin. Cyanogen bromide cleavage at the methionine residues of the polypeptide is at least 95% complete. Six cyanogen bromide fragments are separated on DEAE-cellulose. One fragment is shown by amino acid analysis and carboxyl-terminal analysis to be an incomplete cleavage product. The five remaining fragments represent the entire polypeptide and have been ordered with respect to the entire muconolactone isomerase sequence. Approximately 50% of the polypeptide sequence could be determined from these fragments by the dansyl-Edman technique. The possible evolutionarily homologous origins of muconolactone isomerase and two analogous isomerases, carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase and δ5-3-ketosteroid isomerase, are discussed.
beta-Carboxy-cis,cis-muconate lactonizing enzyme and gamma-carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase catalyze sequential reactions in the beta-ketoadipate pathway; the subunit sizes of the enzymes from Pseudomonas putida, biotype A, are 40 000 and 13 000, respectively. The cross reaction of antisera prepared against the enzymes was tested with the isofunctional enzymes formed by representatives of other bacterial species. Despite the differences in the subunit sizes of the enzymes, the antisera revealed the same general pattern: cross reaction was observed with the corresponding enzymes formed by other strains in the fluorescent Pseudomonas RNA homology group I and generally was not observed with enzymes from other Pseudomonas species or from other bacterial genera. Exceptions were provided by representatives of Pseudomonas cepacia. Members of this species are classified outside the fluorescent Pseudomonas RNA homology group. Nevertheless, the gamma-carboxymuconolactone decarboxylases from these organisms formed precipitin bands with antisera prepared against the corresponding enzyme from P.putida, biotype A; the lactonizing enzymes from the two species did not appear to cross react. Immunodiffusion experiments with gamma-carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase indicated that a common set of antigenic determinants for the enzyme is conserved among strains that have been classified together by other criteria; the relative immunological distances of the decarboxylases of each taxon from the reference P.putida, biotype A, enzyme were indicated by spurring patterns on Ouchterlony plates. These results suggested that the interspecific transfer of the structural gene for the enzyme is not a common event in Pseudomonas.
The ability of some bacteria and filamentous fungi to degrade aniline and its derivatives was reported earlier in the literature. However, there was no information about the biodegradation of aniline by yeast strains. The present work is focused on yeast strain Candida methanosorbosa BP-6 which was isolated from the wastewater pool of the old dye factory "Boruta" in Zgierz by enrichment technique and identified by standard microbiological methods. We have found that strain C. methanosorbosa BP-6 readily grows in the presence of aniline and can degrade this substrate. Relatively good separation of peaks corresponding to aniline and its biodegradation intermediates allowed us their identification and quantification by HPLC methodology. We have found that major intermediates of this degradation are: catechol, cis,cis-muconic acid, muconolactone, 3-oxoadipate enol-lactone, 3-oxoadipic acid and succinic acid. Our results provide strong evidence that biodegradation of aniline by the yeast strain C. methanosorbosa BP-6 proceeds according to the intradiolic pathway.
2-Chloromuconate cycloisomerase from the Gram-positive bacterium Rhodococcus opacus 1CP (Rho-2-CMCI) is an enzyme of a modified ortho-pathway, in which 2-chlorophenol is degraded using 3-chlorocatechol as the central intermediate. In general, the chloromuconate cycloisomerases catalyze not only the cycloisomerization, but also the process of dehalogenation of the chloromuconate to dienelactone. However Rho-2-CMCI, unlike the homologous enzymes from the Gram-negative bacteria, is very specific for only one position of the chloride on the substrate chloromuconate. Furthermore, Rho-2-CMCI is not able to dehalogenate the 5-chloromuconolactone and therefore it cannot generate the dienelactone. The crystallographic structure of the homooctameric Rho-2-CMCI was solved by molecular replacement using the coordinates of the structure of chloromuconate cycloisomerase from Pseudomonas putida PRS2000. The structure was analyzed and compared to the other already known structures of (chloro)muconate cycloisomerases. In addition to this, molecular docking calculations were carried out, which allowed us to determine the residues responsible for the high substrate specificity and the lack of dehalogenation activity of Rho-2-CMCI. Our studies highlight that a histidine, located in a loop that closes the active site cavity upon the binding of the substrate, could be related to the dehalogenation inability of Rho-2-CMCI and in general of the muconate cycloisomerases.
2-Chloro-4-methylphenoxyacetate is not a growth substrate for Alcaligenes eutrophus JMP 134 and JMP 134-1. It is, however, being transformed by enzymes of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid metabolism to 2-chloro-4-methyl-cis,cis-muconate, which is converted by enzymatic 1,4-cycloisomerization to 4-carboxymethyl-2-chloro-4-methylmuconolactone as a dead end metabolite. Chemically, only 3,6-cycloisomerization occurs, giving rise to both diastereomers of 4-carboxychloromethyl-3-methylbut-2-en-4-olide. Those lactones harboring a chlorosubstituent on the 4-carboxymethyl side chain were surprisingly stable under physiological as well as acidic conditions.
An enzyme specifically induced during 4-methylmuconolactone metabolism by Alcaligenes eutrophus JMP 134 and that exhibited muconolactone isomerizing activity was purified to homogeneity. The enzyme, involved in the isomerization of 3-methylmuconolactone had a high degree of sequence similarity with muconolactone isomerase of Alcaligenes eutrophus JMP 134 and other previously described muconolactone isomerases of the 3-oxoadipate pathway. Kinetic analysis showed that the enzyme has a substrate spectrum and a reaction mechanism similar to those of the muconolactone isomerase, but that it has distinct kinetic properties.
4-(Pentafluorosulfanyl)catechol, 2-amino-4-(pentafluorosulfanyl)phenol, and 2-amino-5-(pentafluorosulfanyl)phenol undergo oxidation by lead tetraacetate at ambient temperature leading to dearomatization and the formation of SF5-substituted nitriles and esters of cis,cis-hexa-2,4-dienedioic (muconic) acid in good yields. 4-(Pentafluorosulfanyl)phenol and 4-(pentafluorosulfanyl)anisole are oxidized by 30% aqueous hydrogen peroxide in concentrated sulfuric acid to provide 2-(5-oxo-3-(pentafluorosulfanyl)-2,5-dihydrofuran-2-yl)acetic acid [3-(pentafluorosulfanyl)muconolactone] and small amounts of side products—SF5-containing maleic and succinic acids. The methods presented are the first examples of the practical synthesis of aliphatic SF5-containing compounds from readily available aromatic ones.
Rhodotorula mucilaginosa was grown in p-hydroxybenzoate-limited chemostats over the dilution rate (D) range 0.01 to 0.17 h-1 and growth was adequately described by the Monod theory when maintenance energy requirements were considered. The p-hydroxy-benzoate affinity constant, K 8, had the relatively high value of 270 mg/l. The yield from p-hydroxybenzoate varied with dilution rate but was constant above D=0.07 h-1 at 0.56 g yeast/g substrate utilised. The maintenance coefficient for growth on the aromatic substrate was 20 mg/g yeast/hr. Culture viability decreased linearly as the dilution rate was reduced. 4-Hydroxybenzoate 3-mono-oxygenase, protocatechuate 3,4-dioxygenase, 3-carboxymuconate cyclase and 3-carboxymuconolactone hydrolase activities were dilution rate-dependent, results which accord with the substrate inducibility of these enzymes. Under carbon-limited growth conditions the addition of glucose, a catabolite repressor of these enzymes, to the aromatic medium stimulated their synthesis. Data were also obtained which indicated that whereas the synthesis of the cyclase and the hydrolase was coordinately controlled, that of the first two enzymes of the 3-oxoadipate pathway was under independent control.
Pseudomonas reinekei MT1 is capable of growing on 4- and 5-chlorosalicylate, involving a pathway with trans-dienelactone hydrolase (trans-DLH) as a key enzyme. It acts on 4-chloromuconolactone formed during cycloisomerization of 3-chloromuconate by hydrolyzing it to maleylacetate. The gene encoding this activity was localized, sequenced and expressed in Escherichia coli. Inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry showed that both the wild-type as well as recombinant enzymes contained 2 moles of zinc but variable amounts of manganese/mol of protein subunit. The inactive metal-free apoenzyme could be reactivated by Zn(2+) or Mn(2+). Thus, trans-DLH is a Zn(2+)-dependent hydrolase using halosubstituted muconolactones and trans-dienelactone as substrates, where Mn(2+) can substitute for Zn(2+). It is the first member of COG1878 and PF04199 for which a direct physiological function has been reported.
Recurring patterns of primary structure have been observed in enzymes that mediate sequential metabolic reactions in bacteria. The enzymes, muconolactone Delta-isomerase [(+)-4-hydroxy-4-carboxymethylisocrotonolactone Delta(2)-Delta(3)-isomerase, EC 5.3.3.4] and beta-ketoadipate enol-lactone hydrolase [4-carboxymethylbut-3-enolide(1,4)enol-lactone-hydrolase, EC 3.1.1.24], have been coselected in bacterial populations because the isomerase can confer no nutritional advantage in the absence of the hydrolase. Similar amino acid sequences recur within the structure of the isomerase, and the amino-terminal amino acid sequence of the isomerase from Pseudomonas putida appears to be evolutionarily homologous with the corresponding sequence of a beta-ketoadipate enol-lactone hydrolase from Acinetobacter calcoaceticus. One interpretation of the sequence repetitions is that they reflect tandem duplication mutations that took place early in the evolution of the proteins. According to this view, the mutations caused elongation of structural genes and the creation of duplicated genes as the metabolic pathways evolved. A review of the sequence data calls attention to a different hypothesis: repeated amino acid sequences were introduced in the course of the proteins' evolution by substitution of copies of DNA sequences into structural genes. Our observations are interpreted on the basis of a model proposing genetic exchange between misaligned DNA sequences. The model predicts that misalignments in one chromosomal region can influence the nature of mutations in another region. Thus, as often has been observed, the mutability of a base pair will be determined by its location in a DNA sequence. Furthermore, the intrachromosomal recombination of DNA sequences may account for complex genetic modifications that occur as new pathways evolve. The model provides an interpretation of an apparent paradox, the rapid creation of new metabolic traits by bacterial genomes that are remarkably resistant to genetic drift.
Rhodococcus rhodochrous N75 is able to metabolize 4-methylcatechol via a modified beta-ketoadipate pathway. This organism has been shown to activate 3-methylmuconolactone by the addition of coenzyme A (CoA) prior to hydrolysis of the butenolide ring. A lactone-CoA synthetase is induced by growth of R. rhodochrous N75 on p-toluate as a sole source of carbon. The enzyme has been purified 221-fold by ammonium sulfate fractionation, hydrophobic chromatography, gel filtration, and anion-exchange chromatography. The enzyme, termed 3-methylmuconolactone-CoA synthetase, has a pH optimum of 8.0, a native Mr of 128,000, and a subunit Mr of 62,000, suggesting that the enzyme is homodimeric. The enzyme is very specific for its 3-methylmuconolactone substrate and displays little or no activity with other monoene and diene lactone analogues. Equimolar amounts of these lactone analogues brought about less than 30% (most brought about less than 15%) inhibition of the CoA synthetase reaction with its natural substrate.
Homogeneous beta-ketoadipate succinyl-CoA transferase (EC 2.8.3.6) preparations were obtained from extracts of Acinetobacter calcoaceticus and Pseudomonas putida. Gel filtration indicated that the respective transferases have similar molecular weights of 108,000 and 109,000; each transferase appears to have an alpha 2 beta 2 oligomeric structure formed by association of nonidentical subunits with a molecular weight of about 25,000. The subunits were separated by sodium dodecyl sulfate-gel electrophoresis, and differences in their primary structures were revealed by determination of the NH2-terminal amino acid sequences of the oligomers. The transferases cross-react immunologically and possess similar amino acid compositions. These are remarkably similar to the amino acid compositions of gamma-carboxymuconolactone decarboxylases (EC 4.1.1.44) and beta-ketoadipate enol-lactone hydrolases (EC 3.1.1.24), enzymes that mediate consecutive reactions preceding the transferase step in the beta-ketoadipate pathway.
[Abstract] The protocol describes the generation of variants of chloromuconolactone dehalogenase from Rhodococcus opacus (R. opacus) 1CP. ClcF is a multimeric protein, which catalyses the dechlorination of 5-chloromuconolactone to cis-dienelactone in the 3-chlorocatecholic acid degradation pathway. The protocol describes the workflow for the purification and subsequent crystallization of the enzyme. The used workflow and the described techniques could be easily adapted to any other protein/enzyme intended to be crystallized by the potential user for subsequent structure determination. The protocol does not involve expensive specialized equipment which allows the use in standard laboratories not specially dedicated to macromolecular crystallography.
InPseudomonas putida, thecatBCoperonencodes enzymes involved inbenzoate degradation. Previous studies havedetermined thatthese enzymes areinduced whenP.putida isgrowninthepresence ofbenzoate. Induction oftheenzymes ofthecatBCoperonrequires anintermediate ofbenzoate degradation, cis,cismuconate, andaregulatory protein, CatR.Ithasbeendetermined thatCatRbinds toa27-bp region ofthe catBCpromoter inthepresence orabsence ofinducer. We havecalled this therepression binding site. Inthis study, weusedagelshift assay todemonstrate that theinducer, cis,cis-muconate, increases theaffinity ofCatR forthecatBCpromoter region by20-fold. Furthermore, intheabsence ofcis,cis-muconate, CatRformstwo complexes inthegelshift assay. Theinducer cis,cis-muconate confers specificity primarily fortheformation of complex 2.DNaseIfootprinting showed that anadditional 27bpofthecatBCpromoter region isprotected by CatRinthepresence ofcis,cis-muconate. We havenamedthis second binding site theactivation binding site. Methylation interference footprinting determined that inthepresence orabsence ofinducer, five Gnucleotides ofthecatBCpromoter region werenecessary forCatRinteraction withtherepression binding site, while a single G residue wasimportant forCatRinteraction withtheactivation binding site inthepresence of cis,cis-muconate. Using polymerase chain reaction-generated constructs, wefound that thebinding ofCatRto therepression binding site isindependent oftheactivation binding site. However, binding ofCatRtothe activation binding site required anintact repression binding site. Pseudomonads arecommonsoil bacteria whicharecapableofdegrading manytoxic compounds. Thesecompounds areutilized assources ofnutrients after theyareconverted into intermediates commontoconventional metabolic pathways.Understanding theregulation ofgeneswhichencode enzymesresponsible forcatabolism isofgreat interest tothe field ofbiodegradation. Studies concerning thenatureof substrate specificity fordifferent catabolic enzymesmay eventually leadtotheengineering ofnovelcatabolic pathwaysforcompounds thatcurrently cannot bedegraded by nature. Since manyofthese recalcitrant compounds contain oneormorearomatic rings (7,8,12), ourlaboratory has beenstudying theregulation ofbenzoate catabolism by Pseudomonas putida inordertobetter understand the regulation ofthebiodegradative processes. Thechromosomal genesofP.putida whichcodeforthe enzymesthatcatabolize benzoate to 3-ketoadipate have beencloned andcharacterized (1,2,34,35). Figure 1A showsthat thecatBCoperonencodes theenzymescis,cismuconatelactonizing enzymeandmuconolactone isomerase,respectively. Early studies demonstrated that growth on benzoate increased thelevels ofall3-ketoadipate enzymes (20, 22,34,35). Recently, ourlaboratory hasshownthatthe catRgeneisapositive transcriptional activator ofthecatBC operon whenP.putida isgrowninthepresence ofbenzoate (25). The32.2-kDa CatRprotein encoded bythis geneshows
(%)-3-Methylmuconolactone (4c) has been resolved via the diastereoisomeric salts of (S)-(–)-1-phenylethylamine and the absolute configurations of fungal (4S)–(-)-3-methylmuconolactone (6) and bacterial (4S)-(+)-4-methylmuconolactone (9) have been determined by combined use of X-ray crystallographic analysis and chemical correlation.
Mycobacterium tuberculosis adapts to stress conditions by responding to the signals from its external environment. M. tuberculosis genome encodes 11 eukaryotic like serine/threonine protein kinases (STPK) and their importance in regulating the physiology and virulence of the bacteria are being explored. Previous study from our lab identified the M. tuberculosis STPK, PknI interacts with two peroxidase proteins such as Rv2159c and Rv0148. In this study, we have characterized the biological function behind the PknI-Rv2159c interaction in M. tuberculosis. Point mutation of Ala-Gly-Trp motif identified that only Ala49 and Gly50 amino acids of Rv2159c are responsible for interaction and there is no phosphorylation involved in the PknI-Rv2159c interaction. Rv2159c is a member from the carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase family with peroxidase activity. Enzymatic assays with catalytic site point mutants showed that Cys84 of Rv2159c was responsible for its alkylhydroperoxidase activity. Interestingly, interaction with PknI increased its peroxidase activity by several folds. Gene knockdown of Rv2159c in M. tuberculosis showed increased sensitivity to peroxides such as cumene hydroperoxide and hydrogen peroxide. Proteomic analysis of differentially expressing Rv2159c strains by 2D gel electrophoresis and mass spectrometry revealed the differential abundance of 21 proteins. The total absence of oxidoreductase, GuaB1 suggests the essential role of Rv2159c in redox maintenance. Our findings provide new insights on signaling mechanisms of PknI in maintaining the redox homeostasis during oxidative stresses.
Abstract A 2,585 bp chromosomal DNA segment of Ralstonia eutropha JMP134 (formerly: Alcaligenes eutrophus JMP134) which contains a gene cluster encoding part of the modified ortho-cleavage pathway encodes a putative transport protein for 4-methylmuconolactone, a novel 4-methylmuconolactone methylisomerase and methylmuconolactone isomerase. The putative 4-methylmuconolactone transporter, a protein with a calculated molecular mass of 45.8 kDa, exhibits sequence homology to other members of the major superfamily of transmembrane facilitators and shows the common structural motif of 12 transmembrane-spanning α-helical segments and the hallmark amino acid motif characteristic of the superfamily. Consistent with the novelty of the reaction catalyzed by 4-methylmuconolactone methylisomerase, no primary sequence homologies were found between this enzyme or its gene and other proteins or genes in the data banks, suggesting that this enzyme represents a new type of isomerase. The molecular mass of the native 4-methylmuconolactone methylisomerase was determined by gel filtration analysis to be 25±2 kDa. From the polynucleotide sequence of the gene, a molecular mass of 12.9 kDa was calculated and hence we predict a homodimeric quaternary structure. The high sensitivity of 4-methylmuconolactone methylisomerase to heavy metals and thiol-modifying reagents implicates the involvement of sulfhydryl groups in the catalytic reaction. The methylmuconolactone isomerase – calculated molecular mass 10.3 kDa – has a primary structure related to the classical muconolactone isomerases (EC 5.3.3.4) of Acinetobacter calcoaceticus, of two Pseudomonas putida strains and of Ralstonia eutropha JMP134, suggesting that these are all isoenzymes. Consistent with this proposal is the finding that the purified protein exhibits muconolactone-isomerizing activity.
Abstract gamma-Carboxymuconolactone decarobxylase (EC 4.1.1.44) and muconolactone isomerase (EC 5.3.3.4) mediate chemically analogous reactions in bacteria. The enzymes are inducible, and different metabolites trigger the respective syntheses of the decarboxylases in Acinetobacter calcoaceticus and Pseudomonas putida. The decarobxylases share similar oligomeric structures in which identical subunits of about 13,300 daltons appear to be self-associated into hexamers. Identical residues are found in 18 of the first 36 positions of the enzymes' NH2-terminal amino acid sequences. Thus, genetic rearrangements appear to have placed homologous structural genes for the decarboxylases under different transcriptional control in the two bacterial species. The NH2-terminal amino acid sequences of the decarboxylases and muconolactone isomerases are similar, suggesting that a common ancestral protein gave rise to the enzymes with different (albeit analogous) activities. In addition, the NH2-terminal amino acid sequences of the decarboxylases appear to have been conserved at a second region within the primary structure of the muconolactone isomerases. As has been observed with the two enol-lactone hydrolases (EC 3.1.3.24) of Acinetobacter, the structural genes for the decarboxylases and the isomerases appear to have diverged widely as they were co-selected within a single cell line, In part the divergence appears to have been achieved by mutations in which fragments of DNA within structural genes are replaced with fragments of DNA derived from a co-evolving sequence.
SUMMARY: Bacteria of the acidovorans Pseudomonas group (Pseudomonas acidovorans and P. testosteroni) utilize β-carboxy-cis, cis-muconate for growth via the β-ketoadipate pathway. Since protocatechuate, the only known metabolic precursor of β-carboxy-cis, cis-muconate, is utilized by these bacteria via another metabolic pathway, it appears that aa-carboxy-cis, cis-muconate can serve as a natural growth substrate. ::: The members of the acidovorans group are freely permeable to β-carboxy-cis, cis-muconate and in this respect they differ from other Pseudomonas species. ::: Unlike other bacteria (Acinetobacter, Alcaligenes, Nocardia and other species of Pseudomonas) the acidovorans group of Pseudomonas do not use protocatechuate or β-ketoadipate as an inducer of β-carboxy-cis, cis-mucortate lactonizing enzyme and y-carboxy muconolactone decarboxylase. In Pseudomonas acidovorans and P. testosteroni the inducer of these enzymes appears to be β-carboxy-cis, cis-muconate (or y-carboxymuconolactone). In P. testosteroni, but not in P. acidovorans, aa-ketoadipate serves as an inducer of muconolactone isomerase. Therefore strains of P. acidovorans and P. testosteroni may be identified by the unique mechanism that they employ to govern synthesis of the enzymes of the β-ketoadipate pathway.
Ralstonia sp. strain PS12 is able to use 2,4-, 2,5-, and 3,4-dichlorotoluene as growth substrates. Dichloromethylcatechols are central intermediates that are formed by TecA tetrachlorobenzene dioxygenase-mediated activation at two adjacent unsubstituted carbon atoms followed by TecB chlorobenzene dihydrodiol dehydrogenase-catalyzed rearomatization and then are channeled into a chlorocatechol ortho cleavage pathway involving a chlorocatechol 1,2-dioxygenase, chloromuconate cycloisomerase, and dienelactone hydrolase. However, completely different metabolic routes were observed for the three dichloromethylcatechols analyzed. Whereas 3,4-dichloro-6-methylcatechol is quantitatively transformed into one dienelactone (5-chloro-2-methyldienelactone) and thus is degraded via a linear pathway, 3,5-dichloro-2-methylmuconate formed from 4,6-dichloro-3-methylcatechol is subject to both 1,4- and 3,6-cycloisomerization and thus is degraded via a branched metabolic route. 3,6-Dichloro-4-methylcatechol, on the first view, is transformed predominantly into one (2-chloro-3-methyl-trans-) dienelactone. In situ (1)H nuclear magnetic resonance analysis revealed the intermediate formation of 2,5-dichloro-4-methylmuconolactone, showing that both 1,4- and 3,6-cycloisomerization occur with this muconate and indicating a degradation of the muconolactone via a reversible cycloisomerization reaction and the dienelactone-forming branch of the pathway. Diastereomeric mixtures of two dichloromethylmuconolactones were prepared chemically to proof such a hypothesis. Chloromuconate cycloisomerase transformed 3,5-dichloro-2-methylmuconolactone into a mixture of 2-chloro-5-methyl-cis- and 3-chloro-2-methyldienelactone, affording evidence for a metabolic route of 3,5-dichloro-2-methylmuconolactone via 3,5-dichloro-2-methylmuconate into 2-chloro-5-methyl-cis-dienelactone. 2,5-Dichloro-3-methylmuconolactone was transformed nearly exclusively into 2-chloro-3-methyl-trans-dienelactone.
Ralstonia sp. strain PS12 is able to use 2,4-, 2,5-, and 3,4-dichlorotoluene as growth substrates. Dichloromethylcatechols are central intermediates that are formed by TecA tetrachlorobenzene dioxygenase-mediated activation at two adjacent unsubstituted carbon atoms followed by TecB chlorobenzene dihydrodiol dehydrogenase-catalyzed rearomatization and then are channeled into a chlorocatechol ortho cleavage pathway involving a chlorocatechol 1,2-dioxygenase, chloromuconate cycloisomerase, and dienelactone hydrolase. However, completely different metabolic routes were observed for the three dichloromethylcatechols analyzed. Whereas 3,4-dichloro-6-methylcatechol is quantitatively transformed into one dienelactone (5-chloro-2-methyldienelactone) and thus is degraded via a linear pathway, 3,5-dichloro-2-methylmuconate formed from 4,6-dichloro-3-methylcatechol is subject to both 1,4-and 3,6-cycloisomerization and thus is degraded via a branched metabolic route. 3,6-Dichloro-4-methylcatechol, on the first view, is transformed predominantly into one (2-chloro-3-methyl-trans-) dienelactone. In situ 1 H nuclear magnetic resonance analysis revealed the intermediate formation of 2,5-dichloro-4-methylmuconolactone, showing that both 1,4-and 3,6-cycloisomerization occur with this muconate and indicating a degradation of the muconolactone via a reversible cycloisomerization reaction and the dienelactone-forming branch of the pathway. Diastereomeric mixtures of two dichloromethylmuconolactones were prepared chemically to proof such a hypothesis. Chloromuconate cycloisomerase transformed 3,5-dichloro-2-methylmuconolactone into a mixture of 2-chloro-5-methyl-cis-and 3-chloro-2-methyldienelactone, affording evidence for a metabolic route of 3,5-dichloro-2-methylmuconolactone via 3,5-dichloro-2-methylmuconate into 2-chloro-5-methyl-cis-dienelactone. 2,5-Dichloro-3-methylmuconolactone was transformed nearly exclusively into 2-chloro-3-methyl-trans-dienelactone.
Oxidation of 3- and 4-pentafluorosulfanyl-substituted anisoles and phenols with hydrogen peroxide and sulfuric acid provided a mixture of SF5-substituted muconolactone, maleic, and succinic acids. A plausible mechanism for the formation of the aliphatic SF5 compounds was presented and their chemical reactivity was investigated. SF5-substituted para-benzoquinone was synthesized; its oxidation led to an improved yield of 2-(pentafluorosulfanyl)maleic acid. The reaction of SF5-substituted maleic anhydride and para-benzoquinone with cyclopentadiene afforded the Diels-Alder adducts. Decomposition of 3-(pentafluorosulfanyl)muconolactone in acidic, neutral and basic aqueous media was investigated and the decarboxylation of 2-(pentafluorosulfanyl)maleic acid provided 3-(pentafluorosulfanyl)acrylic acid.
Oxidation of 3-and 4-pentafluorosulfanyl-substituted anisoles and phenols with hydrogen peroxide and sulfuric acid provided a mixture of SF 5 -substituted muconolactone, maleic, and succinic acids. A plausible mechanism for the formation of the aliphatic SF 5 compounds was presented and their chemical reactivity was investigated. SF 5 -substituted para-benzoquinone was synthesized; its oxidation led to an improved yield of 2-(pentafluorosulfanyl)maleic acid. The reaction of SF 5 -substituted maleic anhydride and para-benzoquinone with cyclopentadiene afforded the Diels-Alder adducts. Decomposition of 3-(pentafluorosulfanyl)muconolactone in acidic, neutral and basic aqueous media was investigated and the decarboxylation of 2-(pentafluorosulfanyl)maleic acid provided 3-(pentafluorosulfanyl)acrylic acid.
In conclusion, similar to 4-(pentafluorosulfanyl)anisole and 4-(pentafluorosulfanyl)phenol the meta-derivatives 10 and 11 underwent oxidation with aqueous hydrogen peroxide in sulfuric acid to provide SF 5 -muconolactone and SF 5 -maleic acid as main products. Improved conversion of SF 5 -maleic acid was rationalized by preferential formation of SF 5 -substituted para-benzoquinone as an intermediate. This benzoquinone was independently prepared and its transformation to the maleic acid derivative by oxidation was verified. Reactions of SF 5 -maleinanhydride (formed by dehydration of SF 5 -maleic acid) and SF 5 -benzoquinone with cyclopentadiene provided the Diels-Alder adducts in good to excellent yields; the observed stereoselectivity of the latter reaction agreed with DFT calculations. SF 5 -muconolactone was found to be relatively stable in acidic media but eliminates the SF 5 group in water or in aqueous base to form 2-(3,5-dioxotetrahydrofuran-2-yl)acetic acid, which in aqueous solution exists in equilibrium with its enol form. Further experiments are underway to find out whether aerobic microbial degradation of SF 5 -substituted aromatic compounds follows the same pathway as our chemical oxidation method.
An enzyme of Alcaligenes eutrophus JMP 134 which catalyzes dechlorination of (4R, 5R)-and (4R, 5S)-5-chloro-3-methyl-and (4R, 5S)-5-chloromuconolactone to principally 3-methyl-trans-, 3-methyl-cis -dienelactone and cis -dienelactone, respectively, was purified to homogeneity. The enzyme was identified as muconolactone isomerase on the basis of its high activity with muconolactone and on its high degree of sequence similarity with previously described muconolactone isomerases. ::: ::: ::: ::: Molecular mass determinations of the highly hydrophobic and heat-resistant enzyme indicated a decameric structure involving a single 10.100-kDa subunit similar to that of muconolactone isomerase of Pseudomonas putida. ::: ::: ::: ::: Kinetic analysis showed cooperative effects between the subunits during conversion of (4R, 5S)-5-chloro-3-methylmuconolactone. (4R, 5S)-5-chloromuconolactone was the preferred substrate, over the natural substrate (4S)-muconolactone. The (4S, 5S)-structure was found to be an inhibitor of (4R, 5R)-5-chloro-3-methylmuconolactone transformation. Methylsubstitution of the substrate results in a higher affinity for the enzyme, but a drastically lower velocity, resulting in a lower specificity constant.
Cycloisomerases catalyze the conversion of cis,-cis-muconate to (+)-muconolactone in the orthomechanism of phenol degradation. According to Mazur et al. (1994) , several notable differences occur between bacterial and eukaryotic muconatelactonizing enzymes (MLEs), suggesting that these enzymes might be unrelated. The authors of the cited investigation presume that MLEs of T. cutaneum ATCC 58094 and bacterial MLEs do not share a common genetic origin. Another possible interpretation is that the similar enzyme mechanism of action might be due to a common evolutionary origin (Mazur et al., 1994) .
TTHA0727 is a conserved hypothetical protein from Thermus thermophilus HB8, with a molecular mass of 12.6 kDa. TTHA0727 belongs to the carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase (CMD) family (Pfam 02627). A sequence comparison with its homologs suggested that TTHA0727 is a distinct protein from alkylhydroperoxidase AhpD and gamma-carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase in the CMD family. Here we report the 1.9 A crystal structure of TTHA0727 (PDB ID: 2CWQ) determined by the multiwavelength anomalous dispersion method. The TTHA0727 monomer structure consists of seven alpha-helices (alpha1-alpha7) and one short 3(10)-helix. The crystal structure and the analytical ultracentrifugation revealed that TTHA0727 forms a hexameric ring structure in solution. The electrostatic potential distribution on the solvent-accessible surface of the TTHA0727 hexamer showed that positively charged regions exist on the side of the ring structure, suggesting that TTHA0727 interacts with some negatively charged molecules. A structural homology search revealed that the structure of three alpha-helices (alpha4-alpha6) is remarkably conserved, suggesting that it is the common structural motif for the CMD family proteins. In addition, the nine residues of the N-terminal tag bound to the cleft region between alpha1 and alpha3 in chains A and B of TTHA0727, implying that this region is the putative binding/active site for some small molecules.
The gene cluster catRABC, involved in catechol degradation, was isolated from Rhodococcus erythropolis CCM2595. The genes catA, catB, catC, and the divergently transcribed catR code for catechol 1,2-dioxygenase, cis,cis-muconate cycloisomerase, muconolactone isomerase, and an IclR-type transcriptional regulator, respectively. Measurements of catechol 1,2-dioxygenase activity showed that the expression of catA is induced by phenol but not by catechol or cis,cis-muconate. The activity of catechol 1,2-dioxygenase was repressed by succinate, but no repression by glucose was observed. The transcription start points of catA and catR were determined by primer extension analysis, and the respective promoters (P-catA and P-catR) were thus localized. Measurements of promoter activity during batch cultivation using transcriptional fusion with the gfpuv reporter gene showed that expression of the catR-catABC operon is regulated at the level of transcription. Both P-catR and P-catA are repressed by CatR, and the induction of P-catA by phenol is maintained in the absence of the repressor (in R. erythropolis ΔcatR). Two different potential binding sites for the IclR-type regulator and a recognition site for the cyclic AMP receptor protein (CRP) were identified within the intergenic region between catR and catA.
TTHA0727 is a conserved hypothetical protein from Thermus thermophilus HB8, with a molecular mass of 12.6 kDa. TTHA0727 belongs to the carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase (CMD) family (Pfam 02627). A sequence comparison with its homologs suggested that TTHA0727 is a distinct protein from alkylhydroperoxidase AhpD and g-carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase in the CMD family. Here we report the 1.9 Å crystal structure of TTHA0727 (PDB ID: 2CWQ) determined by the multiwavelength anomalous dispersion method. The TTHA0727 monomer structure consists of seven a-helices (a1-a7) and one short 3 10 -helix. The crystal structure and the analytical ultracentrifugation revealed that TTHA0727 forms a hexameric ring structure in solution. The electrostatic potential distribution on the solvent-accessible surface of the TTHA0727 hexamer showed that positively charged regions exist on the side of the ring structure, suggesting that TTHA0727 interacts with some negatively charged molecules. A structural homology search revealed that the structure of three a-helices (a4-a6) is remarkably conserved, suggesting that it is the common structural motif for the CMD family proteins. In addition, the nine residues of the N-terminal tag bound to the cleft region between a1 and a3 in chains A and B of TTHA0727, implying that this region is the putative binding/active site for some small molecules.
Phthalate isomers and their esters are important pollutants whose biodegradation is not well understood. Rhodococcus sp. strain RHA1 is notable for its ability to degrade a wide range of aromatic compounds. RHA1 was previously shown to degrade phthalate (PTH) and to have genes putatively encoding terephthalate (TPA) degradation. Transcriptomic analysis of 8,213 genes indicated that 150 were up-regulated during growth on PTH and that 521 were up-regulated during growth on TPA. Distinct ring cleavage dioxygenase systems were differentially expressed during growth on PTH and TPA. Genes encoding the protocatechuate (PCA) pathway were induced on both substrates, while genes encoding the catechol branch of the PCA pathway were additionally induced only on TPA. Accordingly, protocatechuate-3,4-dioxygenase activity was induced in cells grown on both substrates, while catechol-1,2-dioxygenase activity was induced only in cells grown on TPA. Knockout analysis indicated that pcaL, encoding 3-oxoadipate enol-lactone hydrolase and 4-carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase, was required for growth on both substrates but that pcaB, encoding beta-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate lactonizing enzyme, was required for growth on PTH only. These results indicate that PTH is degraded solely via the PCA pathway, whereas TPA is degraded via a bifurcated pathway that additionally includes the catechol branch of the PCA pathway.
A 9.9-kilobase (kb) BamHI restriction endonuclease fragment encoding the catA and catBC gene clusters was selected from a gene bank of the Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1c chromosome. The catA, catB, and catC genes encode enzymes that catalyze consecutive reactions in the catechol branch of the beta-ketoadipate pathway: catA, catechol-1,2-dioxygenase (EC 1.13.11.1); catB, muconate lactonizing enzyme (EC 5.5.1.1); and catC, muconolactone isomerase (EC 5.3.3.4). A recombinant plasmid, pRO1783, which contains the 9.9-kb BamHI restriction fragment complemented P. aeruginosa mutants with lesions in the catA, catB, or catC gene; however, this fragment of chromosomal DNA did not contain any other catabolic genes which had been placed near the catA or catBC cluster based on cotransducibility of the loci. Restriction mapping, deletion subcloning, and complementation analysis showed that the order of the genes on the cloned chromosomal DNA fragment is catA, catB, catC. The catBC genes are tightly linked and are transcribed from a single promoter that is on the 5' side of the catB gene. The catA gene is approximately 3 kb from the catBC genes. The cloned P. aeruginosa catA, catB, and catC genes were expressed at basal levels in blocked mutants of Pseudomonas putida and did not exhibit an inducible response. These observations suggest positive regulation of the P. aeruginosa catA and catBC cluster, the absence of a positive regulatory element from pRO1783, and the inability of the P. putida regulatory gene product to induce expression of the P. aeruginosa catA, catB, and catC genes.
A 9.9-kilobase (kb) BamHI restriction endonuclease fragment encoding the catA and catBC gene clusters was selected from a gene bank of the Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1c chromosome. The catA, catB, and catC genes encode enzymes that catalyze consecutive reactions in the catechol branch of the beta-ketoadipate pathway: catA, catechol-1,2-dioxygenase (EC 1.13.11.1); catB, muconate lactonizing enzyme (EC 5.5.1.1); and catC, muconolactone isomerase (EC 5.3.3.4). A recombinant plasmid, pRO1783, which contains the 9.9-kb BamHI restriction fragment complemented P. aeruginosa mutants with lesions in the catA, catB, or catC gene; however, this fragment of chromosomal DNA did not contain any other catabolic genes which had been placed near the catA or catBC cluster based on cotransducibility of the loci. Restriction mapping, deletion subcloning, and complementation analysis showed that the order of the genes on the cloned chromosomal DNA fragment is catA, catB, catC. The catBC genes are tightly linked and are transcribed from a single promoter that is on the 5' side of the catB gene. The catA gene is approximately 3 kb from the catBC genes. The cloned P. aeruginosa catA, catB, and catC genes were expressed at basal levels in blocked mutants of Pseudomonas putida and did not exhibit an inducible response. These observations suggest positive regulation of the P. aeruginosa catA and catBC cluster, the absence of a positive regulatory element from pRO1783, and the inability of the P. putida regulatory gene product to induce expression of the P. aeruginosa catA, catB, and catC genes.
Abstract cis , cis -Muconate cycloisomerase was purified to homogeneity from cells of Rhodococcus rhodochrous N75 grown at the expense of benzoate and p -toluate as the sole sources of carbon. A single cycloisomerase was found to be induced in this organism with no isoforms being detected when R. rhodochrous N75 was grown on either benzoate or p -toluate as the sole source of carbon. The enzyme is hexameric with a single subunit M r of 40 000. cis , cis -Muconate cycloisomerase from R. rhodochrous N75 displayed strict regio- and stereospecificity whereby cis , cis -muconate is cycloisomerized to (4 S )-muconolactone and 2-methyl- and 3-methyl-substituted muconates are cycloisomerized to 2-methyl- and 4-methyl-substituted muconolactones by 1,4- and 3,6-cycloisomerization, respectively.
Abstract cis,cis-Muconate cycloisomerase was purified to homogeneity from cells of Rhodococcus rhodochrous N75 grown at the expense of benzoate and p-toluate as the sole sources of carbon. A single cycloisomerase was found to be induced in this organism with no isoforms being detected when R. rhodochrous N75 was grown on either benzoate or p-toluate as the sole source of carbon. The enzyme is hexameric with a single subunit M r of 40 000. cis,cis-Muconate cycloisomerase from R. rhodochrous N75 displayed strict regio-and stereospecificity whereby cis,cis-muconate is cycloisomerized to (4S)-muconolactone and 2-methyl-and 3-methyl-substituted muconates are cycloisomerized to 2-methyl-and 4-methyl-substituted muconolactones by 1,4-and 3,6-cycloisomerization, respectively.
cis,cis-Muconate cycloisomerase (also referred to as cis,-cis-muconate lactonizing enzyme) is a member of enolase superfamily [1] and the second enzyme mediating the catechol branch of the L-ketoadipate pathway for the metabolism of aromatic compounds by aerobic microorganisms [2] . It catalyzes reversible Q-lactonization, which is an intramolecular conjugate addition^elimination reaction. cis,-cis-Muconate is cycloisomerized to (+)-muconolactone with the insertion of a proton.
The cycloisomerization of cis,cis-muconate by lactonizing enzymes from Pseudomonas putida and the yeast Trichosporon cutaneum occurs by a syn (4S) absolute stereochemical course [3, 4] . Carboxymuconate cycloisomerase from the ascomycete fungus Neurospora crassa has also been established as a syn cycloisomerase, with the same absolute stereochemical course [5] , whereas carboxymuconate cycloisomerase from P. putida proceeds by an anti addition [6] . Cain et al. [7] also reported that the cycloisomerization of 3-methyl-cis,cis-muconate also proceeds by syn addition of carboxyl groups to double bonds to form (4S)-3-methylmuconolactone in the fungus Aspergillus niger and (4S)-4-methylmuconolactone in P. putida.
Abstract ::: Crystalline preparations of muconate lactonizing enzyme and muconolactone isomerase, two inducible enzymes that catalyze successive steps in the catechol branch of the β-ketoadipate pathway, were used to prepare antisera. Both enzymes were isolated from a strain of Pseudomonas putida biotype A. The antisera did not cross-react with enzymes of the same bacterial strain that catalyze the chemically analogous steps in the protocatechuate branch of the β-ketoadipate pathway, carboxymuconate lactonizing enzyme and carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase. The antisera gave heterologous cross-reactions of varying intensities with the muconate lactonizing enzymes and muconolactone isomerases of P. putida biotype B, P. aeruginosa, P. stutzeri, and all biotypes of P. fluorescens, but did not cross-react with the isofunctional enzymes of P. acidovorans, of P. multivorans, and of two bacterial species that belong to other genera. The evolutionary and taxonomic implications of the findings are discussed.
Of all NMR-observable isotopes 19F is the one most convenient for studies on the biodegradation of environmental pollutants and especially for fast initial metabolic screening of newly isolated organisms. In the past decade we have identified the 19F NMR characteristics of many fluorinated intermediates in the microbial degradation of fluoroaromatics including especially fluorophenols. In the present paper we give an overview of results obtained for the initial steps in the aerobic microbial degradation of fluorophenols, i.e. the aromatic hydroxylation to di-, tri- or even tetrahydroxybenzenes ultimately suitable as substrates for the second step, ring cleavage by dioxygenases. In addition we present new results from studies on the identification of metabolites resulting from reaction steps following aromatic ring cleavage, i.e. resulting from the conversion of fluoromuconates by chloromuconate cycloisomerase. Together the presented data illustrate the potential of the 19F NMR technique for (1) fast initial screening of biodegradative pathways, i.e. for studies on metabolomics in newly isolated microorganisms, and (2) identification of relatively unstable pathway intermediates like fluoromuconolactones and fluoromaleylacetates. Journal of Industrial Microbiology & Biotechnology (2001) 26, 22–34.
Abstract A collective view of the degradation of monochlorocatechols in fungi is yet to be attained, though these compounds are recognised as key degradation intermediates of numerous chlorinated aromatic hydrocarbons, including monochlorophenols. In the present contribution we have analysed the degradation pathways of monochlorophenols in Aspergillus nidulans using essentially metabolomics. Degradation intermediates herein identified included those commonly reported ( e.g. 3-chloro- cis , cis -muconate) but also compounds never reported before in fungi revealing for 4-chlorocatechol and for 3-chlorocatechol unknown degradation paths yielding 3-chlorodienelactone and catechol, respectively. A different 3-chlorocatechol degradation path led to accumulation of 2-chloromuconates (a potential dead-end), notwithstanding preliminary evidence of chloromuconolactones and protoanemonin simultaneous formation. In addition, some transformation intermediates, of which sulfate conjugates of mono-chlorophenols/chlorocatechols were the most common, were also identified. This study provides critical information for understanding the role of fungi in the degradation of chlorinated aromatic hydrocarbons; furthering their utility in the development of innovative bioremediation strategies.
cis,cis-Muconate cycloisomerase (MC) was purified to homogeneity from benzamide-assimilating Arthrobacter sp. BA-5-17. The purified enzyme showed high activities for cis,cis-muconate and 3-methyl-cis,cis-muconate, and preferred the 3-substituted derivatives over the derivatives with the same substituent at the 2 position as a substrate. A gene encoding MC of strain BA-5-17 was cloned and named catB. The catB gene was clustered with catR encoding a putative LysR-type regulator, catC encoding a putative muconolactone isomerase, and catA-II encoding the catechol 1,2-dioxygenase isozymes CD-III-1 and III-2. These genes showed the same orientation in transcriptional direction and the organization of cloned genes was catRBCA-II. In the phylogenetic analysis of MCs and chloro-MCs, the BA-5-17 and Streptomyces setonii MCs formed a subfamily, clearly distinguished from those of other MCs.
The biochemical pathways followed by a mixed bacterial culture and one of its constituent strains, Sarcina maxima, MTCC 5216 (hitherto unreported) during the degradation of mononitrophenol isomers was studied using extensive nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy (One- and Two-Dimensional Heteronuclear Multiple Quantum Coherence Transfer-2D HMQCT NMR). NMR investigations revealed that o-nitrophenol (ONP) could be degraded by the consortium to metabolites such as catechol, cis, cis-muconic acid, γ-hydroxymuconic semialdehyde, maleylacetate and β-ketoadipate. The spectra of ONP reaction mixture degraded by S.␣maxima showed that formation of maleylacetate from γ-hydroxymuconic semialdehyde should go through a new metabolite γ-hydroxymaleylacetate, hitherto unreported. The consortium could breakdown m-nitrophenol (MNP) to 4-aminocatechol indicating that it came from 3-hydroxyaminophenol. However, S. maxima MTCC 5216, could convert MNP to hitherto unreported 2-nitrohydroquinone and the subsequent 2-hydroxylaminohydroquinone to 1,2,4-benzenetriol along with γ-hydroxymuconic semialdehyde, muconolactone and maleylacetate. The pathway followed by the consortium during p-nitrophenol (PNP) degradation was by the formation of 4-nitrocatechol, maleylacetate and β-ketoadipate. PNP reaction mixture of S.␣maxima, MTCC 5216 on the other hand, showed that the pathway could proceed through the formation of p-hydroquinone as the initial metabolite. The present study conclusively established the nitrophenol-degrading ability of both the consortium and S. maxima MTCC 5216, including exhibiting slight deviations from the pathways followed by the other reported microorganisms.
A collective view of the degradation of monochlorocatechols in fungi is yet to be attained, though these compounds are recognised as key degradation intermediates of numerous chlorinated aromatic hydrocarbons, including monochlorophenols. In the present contribution we have analysed the degradation pathways of monochlorophenols in Aspergillus nidulans using essentially metabolomics. Degradation intermediates herein identified included those commonly reported (e.g. 3-chloro-cis,cis-muconate) but also compounds never reported before in fungi revealing for 4-chlorocatechol and for 3-chlorocatechol unknown degradation paths yielding 3-chlorodienelactone and catechol, respectively. A different 3-chlorocatechol degradation path led to accumulation of 2-chloromuconates (a potential dead-end), notwithstanding preliminary evidence of chloromuconolactones and protoanemonin simultaneous formation. In addition, some transformation intermediates, of which sulfate conjugates of monochlorophenols/chlorocatechols were the most common, were also identified. This study provides critical information for understanding the role of fungi in the degradation of chlorinated aromatic hydrocarbons; furthering their utility in the development of innovative bioremediation strategies.
Renewable terephthalic and 1,4-cyclohexanedicarboxylic acids can be produced from biomass via muconic acid using a combination of biological and chemical processes. In this conversion scheme, cis,cis-mucononic acid is first obtained by fermentation using either sugar or lignin monomers as a feedstock. The diunsaturated cis,cis-diacid is then isomerized to trans,trans-muconic acid, reacted with biobased ethylene through Diels–Alder cycloaddition, and further hydrogenated or dehydrogenated to yield the desired 100% renewable cyclic dicarboxylic acid. The isomerization of cis,cis- to trans,trans-muconic acid represents the main bottleneck in this process due to undesired side reactions that promote ring closing to form lactones. Therefore, new technologies for the selective isomerization of muconic acid are urgently needed. Here, we studied the corresponding reaction kinetics to elucidate the mechanisms involved in both the isomerization and cyclization reactions with the objective to identify conditions that favor the selective formation of trans,trans-muconic acid. We demonstrate that the reactivity of muconic acid in aqueous media strongly depends on pH. Under alkaline conditions, cis,cis-muconic acid is deprotonated to the corresponding muconate dianion. This species is stable for extended periods of time and does not isomerize. Conversely, cis,cis-muconic acid readily isomerizes to its cis,trans-isomer under acidic conditions. Prolonged heating further triggers the intramolecular cyclizations through reaction of the carboxylic acid and alkene functionalities. The formation of the muconolactone and its dilactone is kinetically favored over the isomerization to trans,trans-muconic acid over a broad range of conditions. However, strategies involving the chelation of the carboxylates with inorganic salts or their solvation using polar aprotic solvents were found to hamper the ring closing reactions and allow the isomerization to trans,trans-muconic acid to proceed with high selectivity (88%). The obtained compound was further reacted with ethylene and hydrogenated to 1,4-cyclohexanedicarboxylic acid, an important monomer for the polyester and polyamide industries.
(±)-3-Methylmuconolactone (±)-4 is resolved by fractional crystallisation of the (S)-(–)-1-phenylethylammonium salts. The X-ray crystal structures of both salts are determined. Salt A (Fig. 1) gives (S)-(–)-3-methylmuconolactone 4, which is identical to the lactone from fungi. The lactone is converted with bromine into the bromo dilactone 5 and thence with tributyltin hydride into the (–)-1-methylmuconodilactone 6. This dilactone with aqueous sodium hydroxide gives (S)-(+)-4-methylmuconolactone 3, which is identical to the lactone from bacteria, together with (S)-(–)-3-methylmuconolactone 4. The X-ray structure of the bromo dilactone 5 (Fig. 3) confirms the absolute configurations of both the fungal and bacterial muconolactones. (S)-(+)-4-Methylmuconolactone 3 gives the corresponding (–)-bromo dilactone 9, which is also reduced with tributyltin hydride to yield the (–)-1-methylmuconodilactone 6. The isomeric bromo dilactones (±)-5 and 9 are similarly converted into the dibromo dilactones (±)-8 and 11, via the corresponding 2-bromomuconolactones (±)-7 and 10, respectively.Disodium 3-methyl-cis,cis-muconate 17 is prepared non-enzymically by treatment of 3-methylmuconic anhydride 16 with 2 mol equiv. of aqueous sodium hydroxide. Unexpectedly, the salt 17 rapidly gives 3-methyl-2-cis,-4-trans-muconate even in weakly alkaline solutions. Contrary to an earlier report, at pD 6.5 the salt 17 is converted at approximately equal rates into 3-methyl-2-cis-4-trans-muconic acid 18 and (±)-3-methylmuconolactone (±)-4.
Pseudomonas sp. strain MT1 has recently been reported to degrade 4- and 5-chlorosalicylate by a pathway assumed to consist of a patchwork of reactions comprising enzymes of the 3-oxoadipate pathway. Genes encoding the initial steps in the degradation of salicylate and substituted derivatives were now localized and sequenced. One of the gene clusters characterized (sal) showed a novel gene arrangement, with salA, encoding a salicylate 1-hydroxylase, being clustered with salCD genes, encoding muconate cycloisomerase and catechol 1,2-dioxygenase, respectively, and was expressed during growth on salicylate and chlorosalicylate. A second gene cluster (cat), exhibiting the typical catRBCA arrangement of genes of the catechol branch of the 3-oxoadipate pathway in Pseudomonas strains, was expressed during growth on salicylate. Despite their high sequence similarities with isoenzymes encoded by the cat gene cluster, the catechol 1,2-dioxygenase and muconate cycloisomerase encoded by the sal cluster showed unusual kinetic properties. Enzymes were adapted for turnover of 4-chlorocatechol and 3-chloromuconate; however, 4-methylcatechol and 3-methylmuconate were identified as the preferred substrates. Investigation of the substrate spectrum identified 4- and 5-methylsalicylate as growth substrates, which were effectively converted by enzymes of the sal cluster into 4-methylmuconolactone, followed by isomerization to 3-methylmuconolactone. The function of the sal gene cluster is therefore to channel both chlorosubstituted and methylsubstituted salicylates into a catechol ortho cleavage pathway, followed by dismantling of the formed substituted muconolactones through specific pathways.
The detection and quantification of muconic acid type structures (MATS) is an important but difficult analytical task in lignin chemistry. MATS are rather labile and present in oxidised lignin in small amounts either in open (I and I9) or in muconolactone (II-IV) forms (Figure 1 ). The presence of MATS in oxidised lignin is usually suggested based on analysis of its low molecular weight degradation products (Vilen et al. 2000; Brogdon et al. 2004) , reactions with diazomethane (Sarkanen and Suzuri 1965) , or based on FTIR and 13 C NMR spectra (Zarubin et al. 1989; Hortling et al. 1991; Evtuguin and Robert 1997; Runge and Ragauskas 1999) . 13 C NMR spectroscopy is one of the most powerful tools for the detection/quantification of MATS, despite objective carbon assignment problems (Hortling et al. 1991; Evtuguin and Robert 1997) . The presence of unsaturated moieties significantly hinders the detection of MATS in lignin by 1D 13 C NMR. Thus, C-2, C-3, C-4 and C-5 in structures I-IV possess the resonances in the same region (approximately 120-140 ppm) as aromatic carbons. The carbon resonances of carboxylic (approximately 167 ppm) and ester (approximately 171-172 ppm) groups attached to vinylic moieties in MATS are overlapped with those of cinnamic and benzoic acid type structures and their esters. The resonance at 51.6 ppm in 13 C NMR spectra of oxidised lignin was assigned to the carbon atom of methoxy groups in partially methylated structures I and II (Figure 1 ) and provides an indication of the presence of MATS (Evtuguin and Robert 1997) . In particular, the successful MATS quantification may be carried out from CH 3 DEPT spectra using methoxy groups as an internal standard (Evtuguin et al. 1994) . However, the detection of MATS based on the resonance at 51.6 ppm is possible if lignin oxidation occurs under acidic or neutral conditions only because under alkaline conditions methyl esters are readily saponified (Runge and Ragauskas 1999; Vilen et al. 2000) . Therefore, the detection and quantification of MATS in those cases is impossible. Evidently, the reliable detection/identification of MATS in oxidised lignins is possible only by the combination of 1D and 2D NMR techniques.
Publisher Summary This chapter describes the conversion of catechol and protocatechuate to β -ketoadipate. The β -ketoadipate pathway represents the terminal stages in the oxidative assimilation of aromatic compounds by many bacteria. Catechol and protocatechuate are converted by a series of analogous reactions to a common intermediate–– β -ketoadipate enollactone. Hydrolysis of this lactone yields β -ketoadipate, a precursor of succinate and acetyl-coenzyme A (CoA). The enzymes that catalyze the subsequent conversion of muconate and β -carboxymuconate to β -ketoadipate absorb strongly in the ultraviolet region. Assays are conducted at 25° in silica cuvettes with a 1.0 cm light path. The measurement of muconate lactonizing enzyme is based on the decrease in absorbance at 260 m μ , a wavelength at which muconate absorbs strongly, and muconolactone is transparent. This enzyme is most active at pH 7. The activity of the enzyme is markedly inhibited by phosphate buffers. Muconolactone isomerase catalyzes the migration of the endocyclic double bond of its substrate. The product of the reaction–– β -ketoadipate enol-lactone––exists in solution as an equilibrium mixture of two tautomeric forms.
Bacteria need signal transducing systems to respond to environmental changes. Next to one- and two-component systems, alternative σ factors of the extra-cytoplasmic function (ECF) protein family represent the third fundamental mechanism of bacterial signal transduction. A comprehensive classification of these proteins identified more than 40 phylogenetically distinct groups, most of which are not experimentally investigated. Here, we present the characterization of such a group with unique features, termed ECF41. Among analyzed bacterial genomes, ECF41 σ factors are widely distributed with about 400 proteins from 10 different phyla. They lack obvious anti-σ factors that typically control activity of other ECF σ factors, but their structural genes are often predicted to be cotranscribed with carboxymuconolactone decarboxylases, oxidoreductases, or epimerases based on genomic context conservation. We demonstrate for Bacillus licheniformis and Rhodobacter sphaeroides that the corresponding genes are preceded by a highly conserved promoter motif and are the only detectable targets of ECF41-dependent gene regulation. In contrast to other ECF σ factors, proteins of group ECF41 contain a large C-terminal extension, which is crucial for σ factor activity. Our data demonstrate that ECF41 σ factors are regulated by a novel mechanism based on the presence of a fused regulatory domain.
Muconolactone delta-isomerase (EC 5.3.3.4) and beta-ketoadipate enol-lactone hydrolase (EC 3.1.1.24) mediate consecutive reactions in the beta-ketoadipate pathway of bacteria. An earlier investigation (Yeh, W.K., Davis, G., Fletcher, P., and Ornston, L.N. (1978) J. Biol. Chem. 253, 4920-4923) revealed that the respective NH2-terminal amino acid sequences of Pseudomonas putida muconolactone isomerase and Acinetobacter calcoaceticus beta-ketoadipate enol-lactone hydrolase II are evolutionarily homologous. In this report, we describe the purification of Pseudomonas beta-ketoadipate enol-lactone hydrolase and present evidence indicating that the protein is a trimer composed of identical 11,000-dalton subunits. The NH2-terminal amino acid sequences of Pseudomonas muconolactone isomerase and Pseudomonas enol-lactone hydrolase have diverged widely from each other, yet the two sequences contain different fragments of an ancestral sequence which is represented in Acinetobacter enol-lactone hydrolase II. The widely divergent Pseudomonas muconolactone isomerase and Pseudomonas enol-lactone hydrolase sequences each contain unique sets of repeated peptides. In principle, the repetitive sequences might have been introduced by elongation mutations which occurred early in the evolution of the proteins. However, the divergence of Pseudomonas muconolactone isomerase and Pseudomonas enol-lactone hydrolase is so extreme that the observed sequence repetitions cannot have been conserved from ancestral duplication mutations. Rather, the data favor the interpretation that copies of DNA were substituted into structural genes for the enzymes as they diverged.
Bacteria need signal transducing systems to respond to environmental changes. Next to one-and two-component systems, alternative σ factors of the extracytoplasmic function (ECF) protein family represent the third fundamental mechanism of bacterial signal transduction. A comprehensive classification of these proteins identified more than 40 phylogenetically distinct groups, most of which are not experimentally investigated. Here, we present the characterization of such a group with unique features, termed ECF41. Among analyzed bacterial genomes, ECF41 σ factors are widely distributed with about 400 proteins from 10 different phyla. They lack obvious anti-σ factors that typically control activity of other ECF σ factors, but their structural genes are often predicted to be cotranscribed with carboxymuconolactone decarboxylases, oxidoreductases, or epimerases based on genomic context conservation. We demonstrate for Bacillus licheniformis and Rhodobacter sphaeroides that the corresponding genes are preceded by a highly conserved promoter motif and are the only detectable targets of ECF41-dependent gene regulation. In contrast to other ECF σ factors, proteins of group ECF41 contain a large C-terminal extension, which is crucial for σ factor activity. Our data demonstrate that ECF41 σ factors are regulated by a novel mechanism based on the presence of a fused regulatory domain.
Here, we describe the characterization of one such uncharacterized group, ECF41. This group is widely distributed with about 400 proteins from 10 different phyla. Based on their genomic organization, the genes encoding these ECF41 σ factors are not transcriptionally linked to genes encoding proteins related to known anti-σ factors. Instead, they are located next to genes encoding carboxymuconolactone decarboxylases, oxidoreductases, or epimerases. To extract general features of ECF41-dependent gene regulation, we experimentally investigated ECF41 σ factors from two different organisms, B. licheniformis (Firmicutes) and Rhodobacter sphaeroides (α-proteobacteria). In both organisms, the ECF41 σ factor appears to control expression of a single transcript that is preceded by a highly conserved ECF41-specific promoter motif. A unique feature of ECF41 proteins is the presence of a large C-terminal extension containing a number of conserved signature motifs. We provide evidence that this C-terminal extension is involved in regulation of σ factor activity and we propose that it functions as a fused anti-σ factor-like domain.
It was decided to investigate MS patients for possible immune responses to pathogens that carry molecular mimicry sequences resembling brain components, such as Acinetobacter species and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. We have identified an amino acid sequence similarity between the encephalitogenic peptide of bovine MBP (5) and a sequence present in 4-carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase of Acinetobacter calcoaceticus (3). A similar sequence was also found in ␥-carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase of P. aeruginosa (Swissprot).
The catechol and protocatechuate branches of the 3-oxoadipate pathway, which are important for the bacterial degradation of aromatic compounds, converge at the common intermediate 3-oxoadipate enol-lactone. A 3-oxoadipate enol-lactone-hydrolyzing enzyme, purified from benzoate-grown cells of Rhodococcus opacus (erythropolis) 1CP, was found to have a larger molecular mass under denaturing conditions than the corresponding enzymes previously purified from gamma-proteobacteria. Sequencing of the N terminus and of tryptic peptides allowed cloning of the gene coding for the 3-oxoadipate enol-lactone hydrolase by using PCR with degenerate primers. Sequencing showed that the gene belongs to a protocatechuate catabolic gene cluster. Most interestingly, the hydrolase gene, usually termed pcaD, was fused to a second gene, usually termed pcaC, which encodes the enzyme catalyzing the preceding reaction, i.e., 4-carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase. The two enzymatic activities could not be separated chromatographically. At least six genes of protocatechuate catabolism appear to be transcribed in the same direction and in the following order: pcaH and pcaG, coding for the subunits of protocatechuate 3,4-dioxygenase, as shown by N-terminal sequencing of the subunits of the purified protein; a gene termed pcaB due to the homology of its gene product to 3-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate cycloisomerases; pcaL, the fused gene coding for PcaD and PcaC activities; pcaR, presumably coding for a regulator of the IclR-family; and a gene designated pcaF because its product resembles 3-oxoadipyl coenzyme A (3-oxoadipyl-CoA) thiolases. The presumed pcaI, coding for a subunit of succinyl-CoA:3-oxoadipate CoA-transferase, was found to be transcribed divergently from pcaH.
Pseudomonasreinekei MT1 is capable of growing on 4- and 5-chlorosalicylate as the sole carbon source involving a pathway with trans-dienelactone hydrolase as the key enzyme. This enzyme transforms 4-chloromuconolactone to maleylacetate and thereby avoids the spontaneous formation of toxic protoanemonin. trans-Dienelactone hydrolase is a Zn(2+)-dependent hydrolase where activity can be modulated by the exchange of Zn(2+) by Mn(2+) in at least two of the three metal-binding sites. Site directed variants of conserved residues of the Q(101)XXXQ(105)XD(107)XXXH(111) motif and of H281 and E294 exhibit a two order of magnitude decrease in activity and a strong decrease in metal-binding capability. As none of the variants exhibited a change in secondary structure, the analyzed amino acid residues can be assumed to be involved in metal binding, forming a novel trinuclear metal-binding motif.
This work investigated the distribution of the clcF gene in actinobacteria isolated from different ecotopes. The gene encodes chloromuconolactone dehalogenase (CMLD) ClcF, the enzyme found to date in only one representative of Gram-positive bacteria, Rhodococcus opacus 1CP, adapted to 2-chlorophenol (2CP). Using primers specific to the clcF gene, from the DNA matrix of rhodococcal strains closely related to species Rhodococcus wratislaviensis (P1, P12, P13, P20, G10, KT112, KT723, BO1) we obtained PCR products whose nucleotide sequences were 100% identical to that of the clcF gene from strain R. opacus 1CP. CMLDs isolated from the biomass of strains Rhodococcus spp. G10 and P1 grown on 2CP did not differ by their subunit molecular mass deduced from the known amino acid sequence of the clcF gene from the ClcF of strain R. opacus 1CP. Matrix-assisted laser dissociation/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry showed the presence of a peak with m/z 11,194-11,196 Da both in whole cells and in protein solutions with a ClcF activity. Thus, we have first time shown the distribution of ClcF among actinobacteria isolated from geographically distant habitats.
The catB and catC genes encode cis,cis-muconate lactonizing enzyme I (EC 5.5.1.1) and muconolactone isomerase (EC 5.3.3.4), respectively. These enzymes are required for the dissimilation of benzoate to beta-ketoadipate by Pseudomonas putida and are under coordinate transcriptional regulation. By deletion analysis and the use of pKT240 as a promoter probe vector, we located a single promoter region for the catBC operon upstream of catB. RNA-DNA hybridization studies, together with reverse transcriptase mapping, demonstrated that this promoter must be activated in the presence of an inducer molecule for effective transcription of the operon. In addition, the transcription initiation site was located 64 base pairs upstream of the catB initiation codon, and sequences upstream of -43 were required for promoter function. The catBC promoter was compared with other positively regulated procaryotic promoters to identify possible consensus sequences.
Bacterial lignin degradation could be used to generate aromatic chemicals from the renewable resource lignin, provided that the breakdown pathways can be manipulated. In this study, selective inhibitors of enzymatic steps in bacterial degradation pathways were developed and tested for their effects upon lignin degradation. Screening of a collection of hydroxamic acid metallo-oxygenase inhibitors against two catechol dioxygenase enzymes, protocatechuate 3,4-dioxygenase (3,4-PCD) and 2,3-dihydroxyphenylpropionate 1,2-dioxygenase (MhpB), resulted in the identification of selective inhibitors D13 for 3,4-PCD (IC50 15μM) and D3 for MhpB (IC50 110μM). Application of D13 to Rhodococcus jostii RHA1 in minimal media containing ferulic acid led to the appearance of metabolic precursor protocatechuic acid at low concentration. Application of 1mM disulfiram, an inhibitor of mammalian aldehyde dehydrogenase, to R. jostii RHA1, gave rise to 4-carboxymuconolactone on the β-ketoadipate pathway, whereas in Pseudomonas fluorescens Pf-5 disulfiram treatment gave rise to a metabolite found to be glycine betaine aldehyde.
Pseudomonas putida is capable of dissimilating benzoate to succinate and acetyl Co-A via the β-ketoadipate pathway. Two of the essential enzymes involved in this process are muconate lactonizing enzyme I, which catalyzes the conversion of cis, cis-muconate to muconolactone, and muconolactone isomerase, which catalyzes the conversion of muconolactone to β-ketoadipate enol-lactone. These enzymes are encoded by the catB and catC genes, respectively. These tightly linked genes have been cloned from the chromosome of P. putida strain RB1 and their nucleotide sequences determined. Based upon the observation that a single mutation will affect the expression of both genes, catB and catC are believed to comprise an operon. Through the use of deletion clones and a promoter probe vector, a single promoter region has been located 5′ of catBC. Sequences located between -44 and -198 were determined to be essential for promoter activity. S1 nuclease and reverse transcriptase mapping were used to locate the transcription initiation site 63 base pairs upstream of the catB ATG initiation codon. Transcripts originating from this site were found only in RNA prepared from benzoate-grown cells. The nucleotide sequence of the catBC promoter was compared to the sequences of other prokaryotic promoters; however, a consensus sequence was not apparent. These results indicate that the catB and catC genes form an inducible operon which is regulated at the tr an scrip tional level and that nucleotide sequences upstream of −44 are required for promoter activity.
The conversion of 2-chloro-cis,cis-muconate by muconate cycloisomerase from Pseudomonas putida PRS2000 yielded two products which by nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy were identified as 2-chloro- and 5-chloromuconolactone. High-pressure liquid chromatography analyses showed the same compounds to be formed also by muconate cycloisomerases from Acinetobacter calcoaceticus ADP1 and Pseudomonas sp. strain B13. During 2-chloro-cis,cis-muconate turnover by the enzyme from P. putida, 2-chloromuconolactone initially was the major product. After prolonged incubation, however, 5-chloromuconolactone dominated in the resulting equilibrium. In contrast to previous assumptions, both chloromuconolactones were found to be stable at physiological pH. Since the chloromuconate cycloisomerases of Pseudomonas sp. strain B13 and Alcaligenes eutrophus JMP134 have been shown previously to produce the trans-dienelactone (trans-4-carboxymethylene-but-2-en-4-olide) from 2-chloro-cis,cis-muconate, they must have evolved the capability to cleave the carbon-chlorine bond during their divergence from normal muconate cycloisomerases.
The conversion of 2-chloro-cis,cis-muconate by muconate cycloisomerase from Pseudomonas putida PRS2000 yielded two products which by nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy were identified as 2-chloro-and 5-chloromuconolactone. High-pressure liquid chromatography analyses showed the same compounds to be formed also by muconate cycloisomerases from Acinetobacter calcoaceticus ADP1 and Pseudomonas sp. strain B13. During 2-chloro-cis,cis-muconate turnover by the enzyme from P. putida, 2-chloromuconolactone initially was the major product. After prolonged incubation, however, 5-chloromuconolactone dominated in the resulting equilibrium. In contrast to previous assumptions, both chloromuconolactones were found to be stable at physiological pH. Since the chloromuconate cycloisomerases of Pseudomonas sp. strain B13 and Akaligenes eutrophus JMP134 have been shown previously to produce the trans-dienelactone (trans4-carboxymethylenebut-2-en-4-olide) from 2-chloro-cis,cis-muconate, they must have evolved the capability to cleave the carbonchlorine bond during their divergence from normal muconate cycloisomerases.
The two converging catechol and protocatechuate branches of the ..beta..-ketoadipate pathway in Pseudomonas putida have long been considered a paradigm of evolutionary divergence of specialized enzymes from a common ancestor. The structural similarities of substrates, products and the enzymes themselves have supported this hypothesis. Employing chemical and /sup 1/H NMR techniques, they have determined the absolute stereochemical courses of the reactions catalyzed by ..beta..-carboxymuconate cycloisomerase, muconolactone isomerase, and ..gamma..-carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase. Surprisingly, ..beta..-carboxymuconate cycloisomerase proceeds via an anti addition while the corresponding muconate cycloisomerase has been shown to catalyze a syn addition. Moreover, the chiral centers generated in the products of both enzymes are of the opposite relative configuration. They believe that the shift in mechanism may reflect basic energetic differences of the two reactions. The stereochemistries of the isomerase and decarboxylase have been established by /sup 1/H NMR using a ricochet analysis. Both reactions proceed via a syn process; the relative configurations of muconolactone and ..gamma..-carboxymuconolactone necessitate that the enzymes operate on opposite faces of the common enol-lactone product. These findings suggest that either critical active site changes have occurred in these enzymes to accommodate preferred mechanistic pathways or the evolutionary relationship of the two branches is more remote thanmore » previously believed.« less
The β-ketoadipate pathway is the most widespread Pseudomonas pathway of the degradation of aromatic compounds. It includes ortho-cleavage protocatechuate (pca genes) and catechol (cat genes) branches. Both cat and pca branches are usually present in most organisms, but the cat branch is absent in the three available genomes of P. syringae. Quinate, p-hydroxybenzoate, and phenylpropenoids (p-coumarate, caffeate, cinnamate, ferulate, etc.) are degraded via the intermediate protocatechuate. Protocatechuate is cleaved by 3,4-dioxygenase to carboxycis,cis-muconate that is converted to β-ketoadipate enol-lactone by PcaC and PcaD enzymes. The pca genes are gathered in a single cluster in P. fluorescens, but they are organized in different clusters in other Pseudomonas strains [19] . Benzoate, tryptophan, aniline, salicylate, naphthalene, biphenyl, phenol, benzene, toluene, 4-nitrotoluene, and nitrobenzene are degraded via catechol. Benzoate is an intermediate in the catabolism of several aromatic compounds. Its degradation to catechol involves the benABCD genes which were identified in the Pseudomonas genomes carrying cat genes. Cat genes encode enzymes involved in catechol ortho-cleavage. CatA, catB, and catC encode catechol 1,2-dioxygenase, cis,cis-muconate cycloisomerase, and muconolactone isomerase, respectively. The ben and cat genes are located together in the genomes of P. fluorescens, P. aeruginosa, P. stutzeri, and P. entomophila. Reverse situation is observed in most P. putida strains.
Abstract Purification procedures for four enzymes of the protocatechuate pathway were described. Protocatechuate oxygenase was separated from β-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate-lactonizing enzyme by Sephadex G-200 filtration. Alumina Cγ gel was used to separate β-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate lactonizing enzyme from γ-carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase. These two enzymes were also separated by diethylaminoethyl cellulose chromatography. β-Ketoadipate enol-lactone hydrolase was removed from solutions of γ-carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase by heat treatment. β-Ketoadipate enol-lactone hydrolase was greatly purified by DEAE-cellulose chromatography and Sephadex G-100 filtration.
4. Aromatic ring cleavage. Kawai et al. 47) found that 4,6-di-t-butylguaiacol is converted by LA of C. versicolor to a ring cleavage product, the muconolactone derivative, which was previously identified by Gierer and Imsgard 48) as a product in alkaline-oxygen oxidation of the same substrate. 
The mechanistically diverse enolase superfamily is a paradigm for elucidating Nature's strategies for divergent evolution of enzyme function. Each of the different reactions catalyzed by members of the superfamily is initiated by abstraction of the alpha-proton of a carboxylate substrate that is coordinated to an essential Mg(2+). The muconate lactonizing enzyme (MLE) from Pseudomonas putida, a member of a family that catalyzes the syn-cycloisomerization of cis,cis-muconate to (4S)-muconolactone in the beta-ketoadipate pathway, has provided critical insights into the structural bases for evolution of function within the superfamily. A second, divergent family of homologous MLEs that catalyzes anti-cycloisomerization has been identified. Structures of members of both families liganded with the common (4S)-muconolactone product (syn, Pseudomonas fluorescens, gi 70731221 ; anti, Mycobacterium smegmatis, gi 118470554 ) document that the conserved Lys at the end of the second beta-strand in the (beta/alpha)(7)beta-barrel domain serves as the acid catalyst in both reactions. The different stereochemical courses (syn and anti) result from different structural strategies for determining substrate specificity: although the distal carboxylate group of the cis,cis-muconate substrate attacks the same face of the proximal double bond, opposite faces of the resulting enolate anion intermediate are presented to the conserved Lys acid catalyst. The discovery of two families of homologous, but stereochemically distinct, MLEs likely provides an example of "pseudoconvergent" evolution of the same function from different homologous progenitors within the enolase superfamily, in which different spatial arrangements of active site functional groups and substrate specificity determinants support catalysis of the same reaction.
Abstract The catalytic oxidative domino degradation of phenols was investigated. Hydrogen peroxide (30% aq.) was used as an oxidant and 2,2′-dinitro-4,4′-ditrifluoromethyldiphenyl diselenide 4e as a catalyst. The products were muconic acid 5, and muconolactones muconolactones—5-carboxymethylfuran-2(5H)-ones 7 and 9. Phenols with alkyl groups at 2 or 4 positions of the benzene ring were converted regioselectively to corresponding muconolactones substituted at alkenylene ring carbon atoms. The reaction mechanism is proposed.
Abstract The enzymes of the β-ketoadipate pathway are governed by different induction mechanisms in Acinetobacter and Pseudomonas; muconolactone isomerase is one of the enzymes of the catabolic pathway. In order to determine whether the different inductive controls reflect the independent evolutionary acquisition of the pathway in the two bacterial genera, the properties of muconolactone isomerase purified from a representative of each genus were compared. Procedures previously used to crystallize the enzyme from extracts of Pseudomonas putidia were modified to permit crystallization of the enzyme from extracts of Acinetobacter calcoaceticus. The isofunctional enzymes were found to be serologically remote, and some differences in their amino acid compositions were observed. Nevertheless, the muconolactone isomerases possessed similar molecular weights (100,000 for the Acinectobacter enzyme and 94,000 for the Pseudomonas enzyme) and similar subunit sizes (12,000 for the Acinetobacter subunit and 11,500 for the Pseudomonas subunit). At least 12 (and perhaps 13) of the first 15 residues in the NH2-terminal amino acid sequences of the proteins are identical. On the basis of this evidence we conclude that the muconolactone isomerases from the two genera share a common ancestral gene. The apparently close evolutionary homology of the muconolactone isomerases and the wide evolutionary separation of Acinetobacter and Pseudomonas suggest that the structural gene for the catabolic enzyme may have been exchanged well after the divergence of other genes that dictated the evolutionary separation of the two genera. Conservation of the distinctive inductive controls that are characteristic of each genus may have resulted from selective pressures imposed by the nutritional opportunities available to each bacterial group in its natural environment.
Enzymatic conversion of 4-fluorocatechol in the simultaneous presence of partially purified preparations of catechol 1,2-dioxygenase from Pseudomonas cepacia and muconate cycloisomerase from Alcaligenes eutrophus 335 yielded a product that was unambiguously identified as (+)-4-fluoromuconolactone [(+)-4-carboxymethyl-4-fluoro-but-2-en-4-olide]. This compound was shown to be the only major product formed from 3-fluoro-cis,cis-muconate by the action of muconate cycloisomerases from A. eutrophus 335, A. eutrophus JMP134, and P. cepacia as well as by the action of dichloromuconate cycloisomerase from A. eutrophus JMP134. This finding implies that dichloromuconate cycloisomerase, like the muconate cycloisomerases, catalyzes primarily a cycloisomerization reaction, which only in the case of chloro- and bromo-substituted substrates is connected to a dehalogenation. 4-Fluoromuconolactone at pH 7 decomposes by spontaneous reactions mainly to maleylacetate, which then decarboxylates to give cis-acetylacrylate. Although significant amounts of an unidentified compound are also formed from the fluorolactone, HF elimination to the two isomeric dienelactones (4-carboxymethylenebut-2-en-4-olides) is negligible. However, all spontaneous reactions proceed so slowly that an enzymatic conversion of 4-fluoromuconolactone must be assumed. Participation of dienelactone hydrolases in this reaction is indicated by their induction during growth of various strains with 4-fluorobenzoate. However, experiments with cell extracts of P. putida A3.12 suggest that at least one other hydrolytic enzyme is able to contribute to 4-fluoromuconolactone conversion. In light of these observations, earlier proposals for a 4-fluorobenzoate degradative pathway are discussed.
2-Chloro-cis,cis-muconate, the product of ortho-cleavage of 3-chlorocatechol, was converted by purified preparations of the pJP4- and pAC27-encoded chloromuconate cycloisomerases (EC 5.5.1.7) to trans-dienelactone (trans-4-carboxymethylenebut-2-en-4-olide). The same compound was also formed when (+)-2-chloro- and (+)-5-chloromuconolactone were substrates of these enzyme preparations. Thus, the pJP4- and pAC27-encoded chloromuconate cycloisomerases are able to catalyze chloride elimination from (+)-5-chloromuconolactone. The ability to convert (+)-2-chloromuconolactone differentiates these enzymes from other groups of cycloisomerases.
MLEs derived from mycobacterium smegmatis and seudomonas fluorescens share ∼76% identity and have a very similar arrangement of catalytic residues in their active site configuration. However, while they catalyze the conversion of cis,cis-muconate to the same achiral product, muconolactone, studies in deuterated solvent surprisingly show that the cyclo-isomerization proceeds with the formation of a chiral product. In this paper we discuss the application of DFT QM/MM calculations on both MLEs, to our knowledge the first reported in the literature on this protein. We investigate the proposal that the base involved in the catalytic reaction is the lysine residue found at the end of the 2(nd) strand given: (a) that the lysine residue at the end of the 6(th) strand is in an apparently equally effective position to catalyze reaction and (b) that the structural related epimerase in-fact achieve their stereo-specific outcomes by relying on either the base from the 2(nd) or 6(th) strand.
Muconate lactonizing enzymes (MLEs) convert cis,cis-muconates to muconolactones in microbes as part of the beta-ketoadipate pathway; some also dehalogenate muconate derivatives of xenobiotic haloaromatics. There are three different MLE classes unrelated by evolution. We present the X-ray structure of a eukaryotic MLE, Neurospora crassa 3-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate lactonizing enzyme (NcCMLE) at 2.5 A resolution, with a seven-bladed beta propeller fold. It is related neither to bacterial MLEs nor to other beta propeller enzymes, but is structurally similar to the G protein beta subunit. It reveals a novel metal-independent cycloisomerase motif unlike the bacterial metal cofactor MLEs. Together, the bacterial MLEs and NcCMLE structures comprise a striking structural example of functional convergence in enzymes for 1,2-addition-elimination of carboxylic acids. NcCMLE and bacterial MLEs may enhance the reaction rate differently: the former by electrophilic catalysis and the latter by electrostatic stabilization of the enolate.
The aniline-assimilating bacterium Rhodococcus sp. AN-22 was found to constitutively synthesize CatB (cis,cis-muconate cycloisomerase) and CatC (muconolactone isomerase) in its cells growing on non-aromatic substrates, in addition to the previously reported CatA (catechol 1,2-dioxygenase). The bacterium maintained the specific activity of the three enzymes at an almost equal level during cultivation on succinate. CatB and CatC were purified to homogeneity and characterized. CatB was a monomer with a molecular mass of 44 kDa. The enzyme was activated by Mn2+, Co2+ and Mg2+. Native CatC was a homo-octamer with a molecular mass of 100 kDa. The enzyme was stable between pH 7.0 and 10.5 and was resistant to heating up to 90 °C. Genes coding for CatA, CatB and CatC were cloned and named catA, catB and catC respectively. The catABC genes were transcribed as one operon. The deduced amino acid sequences of CatA, CatB and CatC showed high identities with those from other Gram-positive micro-organisms. A regulator gene such as catR encoding a regulatory protein was not observed around the cat gene cluster of Rhodococcus sp. AN-22, but a possible relic of catR was found in the upstream region of catA. Reverse transcriptase-PCR and primer extension analyses showed that the transcriptional start site of the cat gene cluster was located 891 bp upstream of the catA initiation codon in the AN-22 strain growing on both aniline and succinate. Based on these data, we concluded that the bacterium constitutively transcribed the catABC genes and translated its mRNA into CatA, CatB and CatC.
Abstract Strains of the fungus Aspergillus form 3-arylmuconolactones as secondary products of the metabolism of biphenyl and substituted biphenyls. The 3-arylmuconolactones are not found to support growth and can accumulate to significant concentrations. The metabolic pathway leading from hydroxylated biphenyls to lactones appears to proceed through 3,4-catechol intermediates.
Quinones and alpha,beta-unsaturated carbonyls are naturally occurring electrophiles that target cysteine residues via thiol-(S)-alkylation. We analysed the global expression profile of Bacillus subtilis to the toxic carbonyls methylglyoxal (MG) and formaldehyde (FA). Both carbonyl compounds cause a stress response characteristic for thiol-reactive electrophiles as revealed by the induction of the Spx, CtsR, CymR, PerR, ArsR, CzrA, CsoR and SigmaD regulons. MG and FA triggered also a SOS response which indicates DNA damage. Protection against FA is mediated by both the hxlAB operon, encoding the ribulose monophosphate pathway for FA fixation, and a thiol-dependent formaldehyde dehydrogenase (AdhA) and DJ-1/PfpI-family cysteine proteinase (YraA). The adhA-yraA operon and the yraC gene, encoding a gamma-carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase, are positively regulated by the MerR-family regulator, YraB(AdhR). AdhR binds specifically to its target promoters which contain a 7-4-7 inverted repeat (CTTAAAG-N4-CTTTAAG) between the -35 and -10 elements. Activation of adhA-yraA transcription by AdhR requires the conserved Cys52 residue in vivo. We speculate that AdhR is redox-regulated via thiol-(S)-alkylation by aldehydes and that AdhA and YraA are specifically involved in reduction of aldehydes and degradation or repair of damaged thiol-containing proteins respectively.
The actinobacterium Rhodococcus opacus 1CP possesses a so far unique variant of the modified 3-oxoadipate pathway for 3-chlorocatechol degradation. One important feature is the novel dehalogenase ClcF, which converts (4R,5S)-5-chloromuconolactone to E-dienelactone. ClcF is related to muconolactone isomerase (MLI, EC 5.3.3.4). The enzyme has a ferredoxin-type fold and forms a homodecamer of 52-symmetry, typical for the MLI family. The active site is formed by residues from two monomers. The complex structure of an E27A variant with bound substrate in conjunction with mutational studies indicate that E27 acts as the proton acceptor in a univalent single-base syn-dehydrohalogenation mechanism. Despite the evolutionary specialization of ClcF, the conserved active-site structures suggest that the proposed mechanism is representative for the MLI family. Furthermore, ClcF represents a novel type of dehalogenase based on an isomerase scaffold.
The pca structural genes encode enzymes that participate in the conversion of protocatechuate to succinate and acetylcoenzyme A. A 3.05-kb region of the Bradyrhizobium japonicum strain USDA110 genome has been characterized, which contains the pcaB, pcaD and pcaC genes. The predicted protein sequences of the three genes have extensive homologies with β-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate cycloisomerase (PcaB), β-ketodiapate enol-lactone hydrolase (PcaD), and γ-carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase (PcaC), respectively, from Acinetobacter calcoaceticus and Pseudomonas putida. The DNA sequence revealed that the pca genes are probably arranged in a single transcriptional unit, pcaBDC, similar to that described in P. putida. A pcaB deletion mutant constructed by marker exchange mutagenesis lost the ability to use 4-hydroxybenzoate or protocatechuate as the only carbon source, demonstrating functionality of the characterized genes in catabolism of hydroxyaromatics by B. japonicum. Furthermore, 4-hydroxybenzoate and protocatechuate became toxic for the pcaB mutant, indicating that hydroxyaromatics catabolism serves both nutritional and detoxifying purposes.
Haemophilus influenzae is a small pleomorphic Gram-negative bacteria which causes several chronic diseases, including bacteremia, meningitis, cellulitis, epiglottitis, septic arthritis, pneumonia, and empyema. Here we extensively analyzed the sequenced genome of H. influenzae strain Rd KW20 using protein family databases, protein structure prediction, pathways and genome context methods to assign a precise function to proteins whose functions are unknown. These proteins are termed as hypothetical proteins (HPs), for which no experimental information is available. Function prediction of these proteins would surely be supportive to precisely understand the biochemical pathways and mechanism of pathogenesis of Haemophilus influenzae. During the extensive analysis of H. influenzae genome, we found the presence of eight HPs showing lyase activity. Subsequently, we modeled and analyzed three-dimensional structure of all these HPs to determine their functions more precisely. We found these HPs possess cystathionine-β-synthase, cyclase, carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase, pseudouridine synthase A and C, D-tagatose-1,6-bisphosphate aldolase and aminodeoxychorismate lyase-like features, indicating their corresponding functions in the H. influenzae. Lyases are actively involved in the regulation of biosynthesis of various hormones, metabolic pathways, signal transduction, and DNA repair. Lyases are also considered as a key player for various biological processes. These enzymes are critically essential for the survival and pathogenesis of H. influenzae and, therefore, these enzymes may be considered as a potential target for structure-based rational drug design. Our structure-function relationship analysis will be useful to search and design potential lead molecules based on the structure of these lyases, for drug design and discovery.
Abstract ::: Several mutant strains of Pseudomonas putida, selected on the basis of their inability to grow at the expense of benzoate, have been shown to be unable to form inducibly both muconate lactonizing enzyme and muconolactone isomerase. A secondary mutant strain derived from one of these pleiotropically negative strains forms these two enzymes and, in addition, catechol oxygenase in the absence of inducer. This constitutive mutant strain was used as a donor in transductionally mediated two-point crosses to determine the order of point mutations within the structural genes for muconate lactonizing enzyme and muconolactone isomerase (the catB and catC genes, respectively). The gene order conformed precisely with the one that has been established by deletion mapping.
Abstract Haemophilus influenzae is a small pleomorphic Gram-negative bacteria which causes several chronic diseases, including bacteremia, meningitis, cellulitis, epiglottitis, septic arthritis, pneumonia, and empyema. Here we extensively analyzed the sequenced genome of H. influenzae strain Rd KW20 using protein family databases, protein structure prediction, pathways and genome context methods to assign a precise function to proteins whose functions are unknown. These proteins are termed as hypothetical proteins (HPs), for which no experimental information is available. Function prediction of these proteins would surely be supportive to precisely understand the biochemical pathways and mechanism of pathogenesis of Haemophilus influenzae. During the extensive analysis of H. influenzae genome, we found the presence of eight HPs showing lyase activity. Subsequently, we modeled and analyzed three-dimensional structure of all these HPs to determine their functions more precisely. We found these HPs possess cystathionine-b-synthase, cyclase, carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase, pseudouridine synthase A and C, D-tagatose-1,6-bisphosphate aldolase and aminodeoxychorismate lyase-like features, indicating their corresponding functions in the H. influenzae. Lyases are actively involved in the regulation of biosynthesis of various hormones, metabolic pathways, signal transduction, and DNA repair. Lyases are also considered as a key player for various biological processes. These enzymes are critically essential for the survival and pathogenesis of H. influenzae and, therefore, these enzymes may be considered as a potential target for structure-based rational drug design. Our structure-function relationship analysis will be useful to search and design potential lead molecules based on the structure of these lyases, for drug design and discovery.
Abstract Traditionally two pathways are used to biodegrade m -cresol: (1) a meta ; and (2) gentisate. However, my new study shows a promising third pathway. The study first isolates Citrobacter farmeri SC01 from an aerobic basin of a coking wastewater treatment. Then the isolated C. farmeri SC01 was used to study the metabolism of m -cresol. The findings show that the isolated C. farmeri SC01, if grown on m -cresol as the sole carbon source, can metabolically biodegrade m -cresol. By the methods of HPLC, LC–MS, FT-IR and GC–MS, the study identifies the metabolic intermediates of m -cresol biodegraded by C. farmeri SC01 under aerobic process. These intermediates are 3-hydroxybenzoic acid, cis , cis -munconate, and muconolactone, the typical ortho -cleavage metabolites formed and consumed during the degradation of m -cresol. Moreover, when growing on m -cresol as a sole carbon and energy source, C. farmeri SC01 can induce the production of catechol 1,2-dioxygenase. The findings contribute to the study of the characteristics of biodegradation, the metabolic mechanism, the properties of enzymes and the expression, and the regulation of the genes involved in the degradation of m -cresol.
The tfdCIDIEIFI, and tfdDIICIIEIIFII gene modules of plasmid pJP4 of Ralstonia eutropha JMP134 encode complete sets of functional enzymes for the transformation of chlorocatechols into 3-oxoadipate, which are all expressed during growth on 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetate (2,4-D). However, activity of tfdI-encoded enzymes was usually higher than that of tfdII-encoded enzymes, both in the wild-type strain grown on 2,4-D and in 3-chlorobenzoate-grown derivatives harboring only one tfd gene module. The tfdDII-encoded chloromuconate cycloisomerase exhibited special kinetic properties, with high activity against 3-chloromuconate and poor activity against 2-chloromuconate and unsubstituted muconate, thus explaining the different phenotypic behaviors of R. eutropha strains containing different tfd gene modules. The enzyme catalyzes the formation of an equilibrium between 2-chloromuconate and 5-chloro- and 2-chloromuconolactone and very inefficiently catalyzes dehalogenation to form trans-dienelactone as the major product, thus differing from all (chloro)muconate cycloisomerases described thus far.
The tfdC I D I E I F I, and tfdD II C II E II F II gene modules of plasmid pJP4 of Ralstonia eutropha JMP134 encode complete sets of functional enzymes for the transformation of chlorocatechols into 3-oxoadipate, which are all expressed during growth on 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetate (2,4-D). However, activity of tfd I -encoded enzymes was usually higher than that of tfd II -encoded enzymes, both in the wild-type strain grown on 2,4-D and in 3-chlorobenzoate-grown derivatives harboring only one tfd gene module. The tfdD II -encoded chloromuconate cycloisomerase exhibited special kinetic properties, with high activity against 3-chloromuconate and poor activity against 2-chloromuconate and unsubstituted muconate, thus explaining the different phenotypic behaviors of R. eutropha strains containing different tfd gene modules. The enzyme catalyzes the formation of an equilibrium between 2-chloromuconate and 5-chloro-and 2-chloromuconolactone and very inefficiently catalyzes dehalogenation to form trans-dienelactone as the major product, thus differing from all (chloro)muconate cycloisomerases described thus far.
The novel enzyme 4-methyl-2-enelactone methyl-isomerase was detected in, and purified to electrophoretic homogeneity from, p-toluate-grown cells of Rhodococcus rhodocrous N75, a nocardioform actinomycete. The enzyme was very thermostable and had a native Mr of 75,500; as the monomer had an Mr of 17,000, the enzyme is probably tetrameric. The new isomerase is highly specific with respect to its lactone substrate, only accepting (+)-(4S)-4-methylmuconolactone (4-carboxymethyl-4-methylbut-2-en-1,4-olide), and the putative isomerization reaction intermediate 1-methylbislactone ((-)-1-methyl-3,7-dioxo-2,6-dioxabicyclo-[3.3.0]octane) as substrates, and yielding (-)-(4S)-3-methylmuconolactone (4-carboxymethyl-3-methylbut-2-en-1,4-olide) as product. Some other lactone analogues acted as competitive inhibitors. Our data suggest that the isomerization does not involve actual methyl migration, but proceeds via the 1-methybislactone.
When methyl-substituted aromatic compounds are degraded via ortho (intradiol)-cleavage of 4-methylcatechol, the dead-end metabolite 4-methylmuconolactone (4-ML) is formed. Degradation of 4-ML has only been described in few bacterial species, including Pseudomonas reinekei MT1. The isomerization of 4-ML to 3-methylmuconolactone (3-ML) is the first step required for the mineralization of 4-ML and is catalyzed by an enzyme termed 4-methylmuconolactone methylisomerase (MLMI). We identified the gene encoding MLMI in P. reinekei MT1 and solved the crystal structures of MLMI in complex with 3-ML at 1.4-A resolution, with 4-ML at 1.9-A resolution and with a MES buffer molecule at 1.45-A resolution. MLMI exhibits a ferredoxin-like fold and assembles as a tight functional homodimeric complex. We were able to assign the active site clefts of MLMI from P. reinekei MT1 and of the homologous MLMI from Cupriavidus necator JMP134, which has previously been crystallized in a structural genomics project. Kinetic and structural analysis of wild-type MLMI and variants created by site-directed mutagenesis indicate Tyr-39 and His-26 to be the most probable catalytic residues. The previously proposed involvement of Cys-67 in covalent catalysis can now be excluded. Residue His-52 was found to be important for substrate affinity, with only marginal effect on catalytic activity. Based on these results, a novel catalytic mechanism for the isomerization of 4-ML to 3-ML by MLMI, involving a bislactonic intermediate, is proposed. This broadens the knowledge about the diverse group of proteins exhibiting a ferredoxin-like fold.
Abstractβ-Carboxy-cis,cis-muconate lactonizing enzyme and γ-carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase catalyze sequential reactions in the β-ketoadipate pathway, the subunit sizes of the enzymes from Pseudomonas putida, biotype A, are 40000 and 13000, respectively. The cross reaction of antisera prepared against the enzymes was tested with the isofunctional enzymes formed by representatives of other bacterial species. Despite the differences in the subunit sizes of the enzymes, the antisera revealed the same general pattern: cross reaction was observed with the corresponding enzymes formed by other strains in the fluorescent Pseudomonas RNA homology group I and generally was not observed with enzymes from other Pseudomonas species or from other bacterial genera. Exceptions were provided by representatives of Pseudomonas cepacia. Members of this species are classified outside the fluorescent Pseudomonas RNA homology group. Nevertheless, the γ-carboxymuconolactone decarboxylases from these organisms formed precipitin bands with antisera prepared against the corresponding enzyme from P. putida, biotype A; the lactonizing enzymes from the two species did not appear to cross react. Immunodiffusion experiments with γ-carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase indicated that a common set of antigenic determinants for the enzyme is conserved among strains that have been classified together by other criteria; the relative immunological distances of the decarboxylases of each taxon from the reference P. putida, biotype A, enzyme were indicated by spurring patterns on Ouchterlony plates. These results suggested that the interspecific transfer of the structural gene for the enzyme is not a common event in Pseudomonas.
Biodegradation of phenol and monochlorophenols (CPs) by a yeast strain of Rhodotorula glutinis was examined. The strain completely degraded 5 mM of phenol and utilized phenol as a sole carbon source. The strain may degrade phenol by the “ortho” type of ring fission because muconolactone was observed in the cultured broth. 3-Chlorophenol (3-CP) and 4-chlorophenol (4-CP) were well degraded and stoichiometric release of chloride ion was observed, but degradation of 2-chlorophenol was low with a small quantity of chloride ions. Biodegradability of 3-CP and 4-CP was increased by the addition of phenol or CPs to the medium at the cell cultivation. Since 4-chlorocatechol and maleylacetic acid were determined as metabolites of 3-CP and 4-CP by GC/MS analysis, dechlorination may take place between the formation of 4-chlorocatechol and maleylacetic acid.
Anumberofbacterial species havebeensurveyed forserological activities with antiserum toEscherichia coli Bdeoxyribonucleic acid(DNA)polymerase I(EC 2.7.7.7.). Thedegree ofserological cross-reaction istakenas a measure of relatedness ofboththeenzyme molecules fromvarious species andthebacterial species themselves. Extracts were assayed bycomplement fixation onlyafter treatment withdeoxyribonuclease, since DNA boundtoDNA polymerase alters theserological activity oftheenzyme.Antiserum toE.coli DNA polymerase I didnotreactwitheither purified E.coliDNA polymerase IIor thephage T4-induced DNA polymerase. Complement fixation, whichdepends on complementarity between theantibody receptorsites andtheseveral antigenic determinants onthesurface ofaprotein molecule, hasbeen usedtoanalyze relationships amongseveral mammalianproteins, including serumalbumins(18), carbonic anhydrases (16), lysozymes(1), growth hormones (23), cytochromes (10), andhemoglobins (24), andbacterial proteins suchastryptophan synthetases (15), muconatelactonizing enzymes, muconolactone isomerases (22), andalkaline phosphatases (2). Inthis study wehavesurveyed theserological activities ofdeoxyribonucleic acid(DNA)polymerases fromseveral bacterial species aswell asofthree different types ofDNApolymerases. DNA polymerase Ihasbeenpurified to homogeneity fromEscherichia coli B (8). The purified enzymeinvitro catalyzes several different reactions including polymerization of nucleotides andhydrolysis ofDNA ineither the 3'- 5'or5'- 3'direction. Theenzymeis thought toplayanimportant role intheexcisionrepair oflesions inDNA,although a non-essential role oftheenzymeinreplication andrecombination hasnotbeenruled out(3). Theintact molecule appears toconsist ofnot onebuttwodistinct enzymesona single polypeptide chain(21). E.coli BDNA polymerase Iwastheimmunogen usedforpreparationoftheantiserum. Thus,thegradations of cross-reactivities
The biochemical characterization of the muconate and the chloromuconate cycloisomerases of the chlorophenol-utilizing Rhodococcus erythropolis strain 1CP previously indicated that efficient chloromuconate conversion among the gram-positive bacteria might have evolved independently of that among gram-negative bacteria. Based on sequences of the N terminus and of tryptic peptides of the muconate cycloisomerase, a fragment of the corresponding gene has now been amplified and used as a probe for the cloning of catechol catabolic genes from R. erythropolis. The clone thus obtained expressed catechol 1,2-dioxygenase, muconate cycloisomerase, and muconolactone isomerase activities. Sequencing of the insert on the recombinant plasmid pRER1 revealed that the genes are transcribed in the order catA catB catC. Open reading frames downstream of catC may have a function in carbohydrate metabolism. The predicted protein sequence of the catechol 1,2-dioxygenase was identical to the one from Arthrobacter sp. strain mA3 in 59% of the positions. The chlorocatechol 1,2-dioxygenases and the chloromuconate cycloisomerases of gram-negative bacteria appear to be more closely related to the catechol 1,2-dioxygenases and muconate cycloisomerases of the gram-positive strains than to the corresponding enzymes of gram-negative bacteria.
Background ::: γ-Carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase (CMD) participates in the β-ketoadipate pathway, which catalyzes aromatic compounds to produce acetyl- or succinyl-CoA, in prokaryotes and yeast. Our previous study demonstrated that expression of a CMD homologue that contains two signatures (dualCMD) is negatively regulated by iron in Trichomonas vaginalis. However, we were not able to identify the components of the β-ketoadipate pathway in the parasite’s genome. These observations prompted us to investigate the biological functions of this novel CMD homologue in T. vaginalis.
them (Key et al. 1997) . Understanding the fate of these compounds in the environment is important since the transformation products might be highly toxic. In pure culture, investigations on fluoroaromatic catabolism have predominantly focussed on less chemically complicated compounds such as fluorobenzoates and fluorophenols (Ribbons et al. 1987) . Aerobic bacteria can degrade fluoroaromatic compounds, including fluorobenzene (Carvalho et al. 2006; Iwai et al. 2009 ), fluorobenzoates (Boersma et al. 2004 ) and fluorophenols (Boersma et al. 2001) , along the well-established aromatic hydrocarbondegrading pathways. Figure 1 is an overview of the microbial transformations of mono-fluorinated aromatic compounds. Most commonly, oxygenase attack on the fluorinated substrate yields 3-or 4-fluorocatechol, which subsequently undergoes intra-diol cleavage to form 2-or 3-fluoromuconic acid. 3-Fluoromuconic acid can be further catabolised via 3-fluoromuconolactone to 3-oxoadipate with concomitant fluoride release, whereas 2-fluoromuconic acid is a dead-end metabolite. The position of the fluorine atom on the aromatic ring determines its biodegradability. Benzoate-1,2-dioxygenase attack on 4-fluorobenzoic acid will yield only 4-fluorocatechol and subsequently 3-fluoromuconic acid. On the other hand, benzoate-1, 2-dioxygenase action on 3-fluorobenzoic acid can result in 3-and 4-fluorocatechol being formed, leading to 2-and 3-fluoromuconic acid. Dioxygenase attack on 2-fluorobenzoic acid can result in spontaneous elimination of fluoride ion, if hydroxylation occurs at C-1 and C-2, or the ultimate production of 2-fluoromuconic acid, if the hydroxylation is at C-1 and C-6. Fluorophenols are converted to fluorocatechols by hydroxylases (Bondar et al. 1998; Reinscheid et al. 1997) and to insoluble polymeric substances, via fluoroquinone, by tyrosinase (Battaini et al. 2002) . Most recently, Ferreira et al. (2008) discovered an Arthrobacter strain that degraded fluorophenol via a monooxygenase to benzoquinone, which is immediately reduced to hydroquinone, a heretofore unknown pathway. Anaerobic degradation of fluoroaromatic compounds with stoichiometric fluoride release has also been observed (Schennen et al. 1985; Vargas et al. 2000) and very recently Mouttaki et al. (2009) reported the reductive dehalogenation of 3-fluorobenzoate in Syntrophus aciditrophicus. These researchers were also able to detect a novel 3-fluorocyclohexadiene intermediate by GC-MS and fluorine-19 nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy ( 19 F NMR) analyses of culture supernatants. A small number of reports describe investigations on the bacterial transformation of benzoate and catechol substituted with a trifluoromethyl group, which the most widely used fluorinated moiety in pharmaceuticals and agrochemicals (Engesser et al. 1988 (Engesser et al. , 1990 . No strain has yet been shown to grow on these compounds, but co-metabolism is possible via orthoand meta-cleavage pathways. Soil bacteria have been shown to degrade pesticides containing trifluoromethyl-substituted aromatic groups, for example, Bellinaso et al. (2003) isolated strains belonging to the Klebsiella, Herbaspirillum and Bacillus genera that degraded trifluralin (1,1,1-trifluoro-2, 6-dinitro-N,N-dipropyl-p-toluidine); however, no attempt was made to identify the degradation products.
Background: γ-Carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase (CMD) participates in the β-ketoadipate pathway, which catalyzes aromatic compounds to produce acetyl-or succinyl-CoA, in prokaryotes and yeast. Our previous study demonstrated that expression of a CMD homologue that contains two signatures (dualCMD) is negatively regulated by iron in Trichomonas vaginalis. However, we were not able to identify the components of the β-ketoadipate pathway in the parasite's genome. These observations prompted us to investigate the biological functions of this novel CMD homologue in T. vaginalis.
Chlorocatechols are usually further transformed by intradiol (ortho) ring cleavage forming chloro-cis/cismuconates (Dorn and Knackmuss, 1978; Schlömann, 1994; Reineke, 1998; Zerlin, 2004; Gröning et al., 2012) . Subsequent conversion is performed by a chloromuconate cycloisomerase directly forming dienelactone (4-carboxymethylenebut-2-en-4-olides) with intermediary dehalogenation (Schmidt et al., 1980; Kuhm et al., 1990; Vollmer et al., 1994; Vollmer and Schlömann, 1995; Reineke, 1998) or indirectly via chloromuconolactones and subsequent dehalogenation (Vollmer et al., 1994; Moiseeva et al., 2002; Skiba et al., 2002; Nikodem et al., 2003; Gröning et al., 2012) . The dienelactones are further cleaved hydrolytically to maleyl acetate being reduced in the next step to 3-oxoadipate, a central metabolite of the 3-oxoadipate pathway (Reineke, 1998) . The degradation of fluorobenzene, bromobenzene and iodobenzene proceeds in a way similar to the degradation of chlorobenzene (Strunk, 2000; 2007; Carvalho et al., 2006; 2007; 2009; Strunk et al., 2006; Moreira et al., 2013; Strunk and Engesser, 2013) .
The second alternative to mineralize mixtures of alkyland halogen-substituted aromatics is to degrade not only the halogenated catechols, but also alkyl-substituted aromatics like toluene via ortho pathways. The ortho cleavage of methylcatechols as an individual reaction was described manifold in literature. For instance, 4-methylcatechol was converted to 4-carboxymethyl-4-methylbut-2-en-4-olide (4-methyl-2-enelactone, 4-methylmuconolactone, 4-ML) being a dead-end metabolite in most strains possessing ortho cleavage pathways (Catelani et al., 1971; Rojo et al., 1987; Sovorova et al., 2006; Marín et al., 2010) . However, Cupriavidus necator JMP134 (Pieper et al., 1985; Bruce et al., 1989) , Rhodococcus opacus 1CP (Sovorova et al., 2006) and Pseudomonas knackmussii B13 FR1(pFRC20p), a strain engineered genetically (Rojo et al., 1987) , were able to circumvent this bottle neck by an isomerase enzyme, shifting the methyl group from 4-position to the 3-position in order to get 3-methylmuconolacton (4-carboxymethyl-3-methylbut-2-en-4-olide), which was a growth substrate for each strain.
However, the major obstacle for degradation of toluene via ortho cleavage reaction is the fact that mainly 3-methylcatechol is formed as an intermediate of the oxidation of the ring. This intermediate is further transformed to 2-methyl-cis,cis-muconic acid followed by formation of 4-carboxymethyl-2-methylbut-2-en-4-olide (2-methyl-2-enelactone, 2-methylmuconolactone, 2-ML), which has frequently been described to be a dead-end metabolite.
gamma-Carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase (EC 4.1.1.44) and beta-ketoadipate succinyl coenzyme A transferase (EC 2.8.3.6) mediate different steps in the beta-ketoadipate pathway. Antisera prepared against the Pseudomonas putida transferase cross-reacted immunologically with the decarboxylase from the same organism. The transferase is formed by association of two nonidentical protein subunits. The NH2-terminal amino acid sequences of the two nonidentical transferase subunits resembled each other and also were similar to the NH2-terminal amino acid sequence of the decarboxylase.
The absolute stereochemical courses of cis,cis-muconate lactonizing enzyme (MLE;EC 5.5.1.1) from Trichosporon cutaneum (TcMLE) and chloromuconate cycloisomerase (MLE II; EC 5.5.1.7) from Pseudomonas sp B13 have been determined from 1H NMR measurements. Both cycloisomerases convert cis,cis-muconate to (4S)-muconolactone by a syn lactonization, the absolute stereochemical outcome of which is identical to that observed with MLE from Pseudomonas putida. The regiochemical courses of cyclization of 3-halo-cis,cis-muconates by TcMLE and MLE II have been characterized and shown to differ in a halogen substituent dependent manner, suggesting at least a different active site architecture of the two MLEs. Moreover, the regiochemical preferences of MLE II and TcMLE parallel results previously observed for the nonenzymatic lactonization of the 3-halomuconates at pH 1-6 and in concentrated HCl, respectively, in which alternate mechanisms of cyclization were proposed [Pieken, W. A., & Kozarich, J. W. (1990) J. Org. Chem. 55, 3029-3035]. Complementary DNA clones encoding TcMLE have been isolated from phenol induced T. cutaneum cDNA using the polymerase chain reaction. The deduced amino acid sequence does not exhibit any similarity to that of MLE from P. putida. It does however, exhibit moderate sequence similarity (21% residue identity, 14 gaps) with 3-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate lactonizing enzyme (CMLE; EC 5.5.1.5) from Neurospora crassa, which catalyzes a regiochemically analogous and stereochemically identical lactonization reaction with 3-carboxymuconate. The limited data available suggest that the fungal CMLE and yeast MLE are representative of a unique class of eucaryotic cycloisomerases which have evolved convergently with the bacterial MLEs.
Steady-state kinetic analysis of the divalent metal ion requiring cis,cis-muconate cycloisomerase catalyzed interconversion of cis,cis-muconate and (+)-muconolactone obeys Michaelis-Menten kinetics and the Haldane relationship from pH 6.2 to 8.3. The pH vs. kcat/Km profiles suggest free-enzyme apparent pKa values of 6.2 and 7.4: the reciprocal behavior of the data with respect to the latter pKa value is consistent with base-acid catalysis by the enzyme involving proton removal from the lactone and protonation of cis,cis-muconate, respectively. This catalysis by the enzyme of proton transfer is consistent with the stereospecific incorporation of solvent deuterium into the pro-5R position of (+)-muconolactone in the enzyme-catalyzed reaction: in reverse, the departure of the carboxylic oxygen atom and proton from the C(4) and C(5) carbon atoms follows a syn (cis) route [Avigad, G., & Englard, S. (1969) Fed. Proc., Fed. Am. Soc. Exp. Biol. 28, 345, Abstr. 486]. The titration of enzyme freed of divalent metal ion with manganous ion, monitored by electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy and steady-state kinetic measurements, indicates a single binding site per subunit characterized by KdissE X Mn = [E] [Mn2+]/[E X Mn2+] = 4.5 and 3.0 microM, respectively, the latter value analyzed via a rapid equilibrium mechanism. The paramagnetic effects of Mn2+ on the 1/T1 and 1/T2 values for the H-5S proton of (+)-muconolactone in the E X ML X Mn ternary complex provide an estimate of the correlation time, tau c, at 5 X 10(-9) s from the T1/T2 ratio, indicating that the condition of rapid exchange of (+)-muconolactone in solution with the ternary complex obtains.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Cyclisation of cis-cis-3-carboxy-[5-2H]muconic acid catalysed by the lactonising enzyme of Neurospora crassa proceeds with syn-addition to the 4,5-double bond to give (4S,5S)-C-carboxy-[5-2H]muconolactone.
1. The metabolic pathways of aromatic-ring fission were examined in a range of fungal genera that utilize several compounds related to lignin. 2. Most of the genera, after growth on p-hydroxybenzoate, protocatechuate or compounds that are degraded to the latter (e.g. caffeate, ferulate or vanillate), rapidly oxidized these compounds, but not catechol. 3. Such genera possessed a protocatechuate 3,4-oxygenase and accumulated beta-carboxymuconate as the product of protocatechuate oxidation. This enzyme had a high pH optimum in most organisms; the Rhodotorula enzyme was competitively inhibited by catechol. 4. beta-Carboxymuconate was converted by all competent fungi into beta-carboxymuconolactone, which was isolated and characterized. None of the fungi produced or utilized at significant rates the corresponding bacterial intermediate gamma-carboxymuconolactone. 5. The lactonizing enzymes of Rhodotorula and Neurospora crassa had a pH optimum near 5.5 and approximate molecular weights of 19000 and 190000 respectively. 6. The fungi did not degrade the isomeric (+)-muconolactone, gamma-carboxymethylenebutanolide or beta-oxoadipate enol lactone at significant rates, and thus differ radically from bacteria, where beta-oxoadipate enol lactone is the precursor of beta-oxoadipate in all strains examined. 7. The end product of beta-carboxymuconolactone metabolism by extracts was beta-oxoadipate. 8. Evidence for a coenzyme A derivative of beta-oxoadipate was found during further metabolism of this keto acid. 9. A few anomalous fungi, after growth on p-hydroxybenzoate, had no protocatechuate 3,4-oxygenase, but possessed all the enzymes of the catechol pathway. Catechol was detected in the growth medium in one instance. 10. A strain of Penicillium sp. formed pyruvate but no beta-oxoadipate from protocatechuate, suggesting the existence also of a ;meta' type of ring cleavage among fungi.
Terrabacter sp. strain DBF63 is capable of degrading fluorene (FN) to tricarboxylic acid cycle intermediates via phthalate and protocatechuate. Genes were identified for the protocatechuate branch of the beta-ketoadipate pathway (pcaR, pcaHGBDCFIJ) by sequence analysis of a 70 kb DNA region of the FN-catabolic linear plasmid pDBF1. RT-PCR analysis of RNA from DBF63 cells grown with FN, dibenzofuran, and protocatechuate indicated that the pcaHGBDCFIJ operon was expressed during both FN and protocatechuate degradation in strain DBF63. The gene encoding beta-ketoadipate enol-lactone hydrolase (pcaD) was not fused to the next gene, which encodes gamma-carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase (pcaC), in strain DBF63, even though the presence of the pcaL gene (the fusion of pcaD and pcaC) within a pca gene cluster has been thought to be a Gram-positive trait. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis revealed that pcaD mRNA levels increased sharply in response to protocatechuate, and a biotransformation experiment with cis,cis-muconate using Escherichia coli carrying both catBC and pcaD indicated that PcaD exhibited beta-ketoadipate enol-lactone hydrolase activity. The location of the pca gene cluster on the linear plasmid, and the insertion sequences around the pca gene cluster suggest that the ecologically important beta-ketoadipate pathway genes, usually located chromosomally, may be spread widely among bacterial species via horizontal transfer or transposition events.
The fluorene catabolic linear plasmid in Terrabacter sp. strain DBF63 carries the b-ketoadipate pathway genes, pcaRHGBDCFIJ, also found in proteobacteria Terrabacter sp. strain DBF63 is capable of degrading fluorene (FN) to tricarboxylic acid cycle intermediates via phthalate and protocatechuate. Genes were identified for the protocatechuate branch of the b-ketoadipate pathway (pcaR, pcaHGBDCFIJ) by sequence analysis of a 70 kb DNA region of the FN-catabolic linear plasmid pDBF1. RT-PCR analysis of RNA from DBF63 cells grown with FN, dibenzofuran, and protocatechuate indicated that the pcaHGBDCFIJ operon was expressed during both FN and protocatechuate degradation in strain DBF63. The gene encoding b-ketoadipate enol-lactone hydrolase (pcaD) was not fused to the next gene, which encodes c-carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase (pcaC), in strain DBF63, even though the presence of the pcaL gene (the fusion of pcaD and pcaC) within a pca gene cluster has been thought to be a Gram-positive trait. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis revealed that pcaD mRNA levels increased sharply in response to protocatechuate, and a biotransformation experiment with cis,cis-muconate using Escherichia coli carrying both catBC and pcaD indicated that PcaD exhibited b-ketoadipate enol-lactone hydrolase activity. The location of the pca gene cluster on the linear plasmid, and the insertion sequences around the pca gene cluster suggest that the ecologically important b-ketoadipate pathway genes, usually located chromosomally, may be spread widely among bacterial species via horizontal transfer or transposition events.
The growth of Pseudomonas putida ATCC 49451 on various concentrations of sodium benzoate was examined under batch cultivation. At low initial concentrations (≤400 mgl−1), cell growth rate was described by the Monod model with parameters of maximum specific growth rate, μm = 0.66 h−1 and saturation constant, Ks = 10 mgl−1. At higher initial concentrations (≥500 mgl−1), product inhibition on specific growth and degradation rates was observed; specific growth rate decreased as sodium benzoate was degraded. A change in degradation pathway was observed with different initial concentrations of sodium benzoate. With initial concentrations up to 200 mgl−1, catechol was oxidized via the ortho ring cleavage with the induction of catechol 1,2-dioxygenase. The ortho pathway metabolites namely, catechol, cis, cis-muconate and muconolactone, were identified using gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) after trimethylsilyl (TMS) derivatization. When higher initial concentrations of sodium benzoate were used (≥300 mgl−1), the culture media showed absorbance at 375 nm (A375) during the later stage of degradation after approximately 200 mgl−1 of sodium benzoate has been transformed. This was attributed to the accumulation of 2-hydroxymuconic semialdehyde (HMSA), which is an intermediate metabolite of the meta ring fission of catechol. It is concluded that cells grown on high enough concentrations of sodium benzoate simultaneously induced catechol 1,2-dioxygenase and catechol 2,3-dioxygenase, thus activating both the ortho and the meta catechol cleavage pathways. It was further found that catechol, a metabolic intermediate of sodium benzoate, did not effectively support the growth of P. putida when used as a sole substrate. Instead, a dark brown polymerization product was formed. We infer that the induction of the meta pathway is a consequence of the accumulation of 1,2-dihydro-1,2-dihydroxybenzoate (DHB) in the media.
Catechols are central intermediates in the metabolism of aromatic compounds. Degradation of 4-methylcatechol via intradiol cleavage usually leads to the formation of 4-methylmuconolactone (4-ML) as a dead-end metabolite. Only a few microorganisms are known to mineralize 4-ML. The mml gene cluster of Pseudomonas reinekei MT1, which encodes enzymes involved in the metabolism of 4-ML, is shown here to encode 10 genes found in a 9.4-kb chromosomal region. Reverse transcription assays revealed that these genes form a single operon, where their expression is controlled by two promoters. Promoter fusion assays identified 4-methyl-3-oxoadipate as an inducer. Mineralization of 4-ML is initiated by the 4-methylmuconolactone methylisomerase encoded by mmlI. This reaction produces 3-ML and is followed by a rearrangement of the double bond catalyzed by the methylmuconolactone isomerase encoded by mmlJ. Deletion of mmlL, encoding a protein of the metallo-beta-lactamase superfamily, resulted in a loss of the capability of the strain MT1 to open the lactone ring, suggesting its function as a 4-methyl-3-oxoadipate enol-lactone hydrolase. Further metabolism can be assumed to occur by analogy with reactions known from the 3-oxoadipate pathway. mmlF and mmlG probably encode a 4-methyl-3-oxoadipyl-coenzyme A (CoA) transferase, and the mmlC gene product functions as a thiolase, transforming 4-methyl-3-oxoadipyl-CoA into methylsuccinyl-CoA and acetyl-CoA, as indicated by the accumulation of 4-methyl-3-oxoadipate in the respective deletion mutant. Accumulation of methylsuccinate by an mmlK deletion mutant indicates that the encoded acetyl-CoA hydrolase/transferase is crucial for channeling methylsuccinate into the central metabolism.
A number of spontaneous mutant strains of Pseudomonas putida, obtained by repeated selection for inability to grow with cis,cis-muconate, have been shown to carry deletions in catB, the structural gene for muconate lactonizing enzyme. These strains have been employed for deletion mapping of the genetic region containing catB and catC (the structural gene for muconolactone isomerase, the synthesis of which is coordinate with that of muconate lactonizing enzyme). All deletions that overlap mutant sites located on the left side of the genetic map, as well as the point mutations in that region, lead to a pleiotropic loss of both catB and catC activities. We propose that this region to the left of catB has a regulatory function. Although the details of regulation at the molecular level are unclear, our data indicate that catB and catC may well be controlled by a mechanism unlike any yet described by workers on enteric bacteria.
Muconate cycloisomerases play a crucial role in the bacterial degradation of aromatic compounds by converting cis,cis-muconate, the product of catechol ring cleavage, to (4S)-muconolactone. Chloromuconate cycloisomerases catalyze both the corresponding reaction and a dehalogenation reaction in the transformation of chloroaromatic compounds. This study reports the first thorough examination of the substrate specificity of the muconate cycloisomerases from Pseudomonas putida PRS2000 and Acinetobacter "calcoaceticus" ADP1. We show that they transform, in addition to cis,cis-muconate, 3-fluoro-, 2-methyl-, and 3-methyl-cis, cis-muconate with high specificity constants but not 2-fluoro-, 2-chloro-, 3-chloro-, or 2,4-dichloro-cis,cis-muconate. Based on known three-dimensional structures, variants of P. putida muconate cycloisomerase were constructed by site-directed mutagenesis to contain amino acids found in equivalent positions in chloromuconate cycloisomerases. Some of the variants had significantly increased specificity constants for 3-chloro- or 2,4-dichloromuconate (e.g., A271S and I54V showed 27- and 22-fold increases, respectively, for the former substrate). These kinetic improvements were not accompanied by a change from protoanemonin to cis,cis-dienelactone as the product of 3-chloro-cis,cis-muconate conversion. The rate of 2-chloro-cis,cis-muconate turnover was not significantly improved, nor was this compound dehalogenated to any significant extent. However, the direction of 2-chloro-cis,cis-muconate cycloisomerization could be influenced by amino acid exchange. While the wild-type enzyme discriminated only slightly between the two possible cycloisomerization directions, some of the enzyme variants showed a strong preference for either (+)-2-chloro- or (+)-5-chloromuconolactone formation. These results show that the different catalytic characteristics of muconate and chloromuconate cycloisomerases are due to a number of features that can be changed independently of each other.
The protocatechuate pathway is a central catabolic route for aromatic compounds, which is widely distributed among taxonomically diverse bacteria and fungi [1] [2] [3] 19, 20] . Protocatechuate is a key central intermediate in bacterial degradation of diverse aromatic compounds, including 4-HBA, 3-HBA, vanillate, ferulate, coniferyl alcohol, p-coumarate, phthalate, isophthalate and terephthalate. Protocatechuate oxygenolytic ring-cleavage is catalyzed by protocatechuate 3,4-dioxygenase (PcaGH) to generate 3-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate, which is converted into 4-carboxymuconolactone by 3-carboxy-cis,cis-muconate cycloisomerase (PcaB). 4-Carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase (PcaC) transforms the 4-carboxymuconolactone into b-ketoadipate enol-lactone, which is then hydrolyzed by b-ketoadipate enol-lactone hydrolase (PcaD) into b-ketoadipate. The enzyme b-ketoadipate succinyl-CoA tranferase (PcaIJ) converts b-ketoadipate into b-ketoadipyl-CoA, which is finally transformed into succinyl-CoA and acetyl-CoA by b-ketoadipyl-CoA thiolase (PcaF).
Muconate cycloisomerases play a crucial role in the bacterial degradation of aromatic compounds by converting cis,cis-muconate, the product of catechol ring cleavage, to (4S)-muconolactone. Chloromuconate cycloisomerases catalyze both the corresponding reaction and a dehalogenation reaction in the transformation of chloroaromatic compounds. This study reports the first thorough examination of the substrate specificity of the muconate cycloisomerases from Pseudomonas putida PRS2000 and Acinetobacter "calcoaceticus" ADP1. We show that they transform, in addition to cis,cis-muconate, 3-fluoro-, 2-methyl-, and 3-methyl-cis,cis-muconate with high specificity constants but not 2-fluoro-, 2-chloro-, 3-chloro-, or 2,4-dichloro-cis,cis-muconate. Based on known three-dimensional structures, variants of P. putida muconate cycloisomerase were constructed by site-directed mutagenesis to contain amino acids found in equivalent positions in chloromuconate cycloisomerases. Some of the variants had significantly increased specificity constants for 3-chloro-or 2,4-dichloromuconate (e.g., A271S and I54V showed 27-and 22-fold increases, respectively, for the former substrate). These kinetic improvements were not accompanied by a change from protoanemonin to cis,cis-dienelactone as the product of 3-chloro-cis,cis-muconate conversion. The rate of 2-chloro-cis,cis-muconate turnover was not significantly improved, nor was this compound dehalogenated to any significant extent. However, the direction of 2-chloro-cis,cis-muconate cycloisomerization could be influenced by amino acid exchange. While the wild-type enzyme discriminated only slightly between the two possible cycloisomerization directions, some of the enzyme variants showed a strong preference for either (؉)-2-chloro-or (؉)-5-chloromuconolactone formation. These results show that the different catalytic characteristics of muconate and chloromuconate cycloisomerases are due to a number of features that can be changed independently of each other.
Despite the persistence of some chloro-substituted aromatic compounds in the environment (15), various bacterial strains show a remarkable capability for the degradation and mineralization of some of these compounds (for recent reviews, see, for example, references 19, 35, and 42). A major route for their aerobic degradation is via ortho cleavage of chlorocatechols, which occur as central intermediates in the degradation pathways of many chloroaromatic substances. A crucial step in the subsequent catabolism is the cycloisomerization of chloro-substituted cis,cis-muconates, resulting in the formation of dienelactones (4-carboxymethylenebut-2-en-4-olides) after the elimination of a chloro-substituent ( Fig. 1) (5, 12) . This reaction is catalyzed by chloromuconate cycloisomerases (EC 5.5.1.7) (45). Homologous enzymes, muconate cycloisomerases (EC 5.5.1.1), are induced during the degradation of nonchlorinated aromatic compounds via ortho cleavage of catechol. Their function is to convert cis,cis-muconate to (4S)-muconolactone (3, 52), which differs from the dienelactones in that it lacks the additional, exocyclic double bond (Fig. 1) .
Muconate and chloromuconate cycloisomerases differ from each other not only with respect to substrate specificity but also in many cases with respect to product formation. Muconate cycloisomerases of gram-negative bacteria convert 2-chlorocis,cis-muconate to mixtures of (ϩ)-2-chloro-and (ϩ)-5-chloromuconolactone by carrying out both 1,4-and 3,6-cyclo-
Muconate cycloisomerase (EC 5.5.1.1) and chloromuconate cycloisomerase (EC 5.5.1.7) were purified from extracts of Rhodococcus erythropolis 1CP cells grown with benzoate or 4-chlorophenol, respectively. Both enzymes discriminated between the two possible directions of 2-chloro-cis, cis-muconate cycloisomerization and converted this substrate to 5-chloromuconolactone as the only product. In contrast to chloromuconate cycloisomerases of gram-negative bacteria, the corresponding R. erythropolis enzyme is unable to catalyze elimination of chloride from (+)-5-chloromuconolactone. Moreover, in being unable to convert (+)-2-chloromuconolactone, the two cycloisomerases of R. erythropolis 1CP differ significantly from the known muconate and chloromuconate cycloisomerases of gram-negative strains. The catalytic properties indicate that efficient cycloisomerization of 3-chloro- and 2,4-dichloro-cis,cis-muconate might have evolved independently among gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria.
Pseudomonas sp. strain HR199 is able to utilize eugenol (4-allyl-2-methoxyphenol), vanillin (4-hydroxy-3-methoxybenzaldehyde), or protocatechuate as the sole carbon source for growth. Mutants of this strain which were impaired in the catabolism of vanillin but retained the ability to utilize eugenol or protocatechuate were obtained after nitrosoguanidine mutagenesis. One mutant (SK6169) was used as recipient of a Pseudomonas sp. strain HR199 genomic library in cosmid pVK100, and phenotypic complementation was achieved with a 5.8-kbp EcoRI fragment (E58). The amino acid sequences deduced from two corresponding open reading frames (ORF) identified on E58 revealed high degrees of homology to pcaG and pcaH, encoding the two subunits of protocatechuate 3,4-dioxygenase. Three additional ORF most probably encoded a 4-hydroxybenzoate 3-hydroxylase (PobA) and two putative regulatory proteins, which exhibited homology to PcaQ of Agrobacterium tumefaciens and PobR of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, respectively. Since mutant SK6169 was also complemented by a subfragment of E58 that harbored only pcaH, this mutant was most probably lacking a functional beta subunit of the protocatechuate 3, 4-dioxygenase. Since this mutant was still able to grow on protocatechuate and lacked protocatechuate 4,5-dioxygenase and protocatechuate 2,3-dioxygenase, the degradation had to be catalyzed by different enzymes. Two other mutants (SK6184 and SK6190), which were also impaired in the catabolism of vanillin, were not complemented by fragment E58. Since these mutants accumulated 3-carboxy muconolactone during cultivation on eugenol, they most probably exhibited a defect in a step of the catabolic pathway following the ortho cleavage. Moreover, in these mutants cyclization of 3-carboxymuconic acid seems to occur by a syn absolute stereochemical course, which is normally only observed for cis, cis-muconate lactonization in pseudomonads. In conclusion, vanillin is degraded through the ortho-cleavage pathway in Pseudomonas sp. strain HR199 whereas protocatechuate could also be metabolized via a different pathway in the mutants.
Abstract We report here the refined X-ray crystal structure of muconate lactoniz- ing enzyme (MLE) from Pseudomonas putida PRS2000 at a resolution of 1.85 A with an R -factor of 16.8%. An enzyme from the β-ketoadipate path- way, MLE catalyses the conversion of cis,cis -muconate to muconolactone. It is a homo-octamer, one monomer consisting of 373 amino acid residues. MLE has two large domains and a C-terminal subdomain: an α + β domain, an αβ-barrel domain and a C-terminal meandering subdomain. The αβ-barrel domain is highly irregular. Its structure is (β/α) 7 β, with the structural role of the last α-helix being replaced by both the C-terminal subdomain and part of the N-terminal domain. The fifth, seventh and eighth barrel strands are unusual because they have left-handed twist about their axes. The strand crossing angles also vary enormously, from +9° to −69°; the first and last strands, which close the barrel, cross at an angle of −69°, making extensive strand – strand hydrogen bonding impossible. The first barrel strand is also unusual because it starts in the N-terminal domain and forms hydrogen bonds to the C-terminal subdomain β-sheet as well as to its neighbouring strands in the barrel. It thus cements the whole protein together. As in other αβ-barrel proteins, the active site of MLE, present in each subunit is at the C-terminal ends of the barrel β-strands. The active site cleft contains an essential manganese ion, is lined with charged and other polar residues, and contains many of the crystallographic water molecules. The manganese ion is octahedrally co-ordinated to three side-chain carboxylate groups and three water molecules, and is at the centre of a radiating web of ionic and hydrogen-bonding interactions. Additionally, two water molecules are buried in the centre of the barrel and two hydrophilic side-chains (Lys167 and Arg196) make both hydrophobic and hydrophilic packing interactions with much of the barrel interior. The barrel interior is thus also unusual because it is so hydrophilic; the dominating force appears to be the need to solvate the metal ion effectively. This might account for the irregularity of the barrel. The catalytic mechanism has been investigated by docking both substrate and product in the active site with the C-COO − of muconolactone superimposed on the corresponding atoms of cis,cis -muconate. In agreement with earlier kinetic and spectroscopic results, the manganese ion does not interact directly with substrate or product. Our model thus confirms that Glu327 is the general acid, that Lys169 is the general base, and that the manganese ion and Lys167 provide electrophilic stabilisation of the enol/enolate intermediate that forms during the course of the reaction.
To elucidate possible reasons for the recalcitrance of 2-chlorotoluene, the metabolism of chloromethylcatechols, formed after dioxygenation and dehydrogenation by Ralstonia sp. strain PS12 tetrachlorobenzene dioxygenase and chlorobenzene dihydrodiol dehydrogenase, was monitored using chlorocatechol dioxygenases and chloromuconate cycloisomerases partly purified from Ralstonia sp. strain PS12 and Wautersia eutropha JMP134. Two chloromethylcatechols, 3-chloro-4-methylcatechol and 4-chloro-3-methylcatechol, were formed from 2-chlorotoluene. 3-Chloro-4-methylcatechol was transformed into 5-chloro-4-methylmuconolactone and 2-chloro-3-methylmuconolactone. For mechanistic reasons neither of these cycloisomerization products can be dehalogenated by chloromuconate cycloisomerases, with the result that 3-chloro-4-methylcatechol cannot be mineralized by reaction sequences related to catechol ortho-cleavage pathways known thus far. 4-Chloro-3methylcatechol is only poorly dehalogenated during enzymatic processing due to the kinetic properties of the chloromuconate cycloisomerases. Thus, degradation of 2-chlorotoluene via a dioxygenolytic pathway is evidently problematic. In contrast, 5-chloro-3-methylcatechol, the major dioxygenation product formed from 3-chlorotoluene, is subject to quantitative dehalogenation after successive transformation by chlorocatechol 1,2-dioxygenase and chloromuconate cycloisomerase, resulting in the formation of 2-methyldienelactone. 3-Chloro-5-methylcatechol is transformed to 2-chloro-4-methylmuconolactone.
Summary ::: Using 2D electrophoresis the protein expression pattern during growth on carbon sources with different impact on carbon catabolite repression of phenol degradation was analysed in a derivative of Pseudomonas putida KT2440. The cytosolic protein pattern of cells growing on phenol or the non-repressive substrate pyruvate was almost identical, but showed significant differences to that of cells growing with the repressive substrates succinate or glucose. Proteins, which were mainly expressed in the presence of phenol or pyruvate, could be assigned to the functional groups of transport, detoxification, stress response, amino acid, energy, carbohydrate and nucleotide metabolism. The addition of succinate to cells growing with phenol (‘shift-up’) resulted in the inhibition of the synthesis of these proteins. Proteins with enhanced expression at growth with succinate or glucose were proteins for de novo synthesis of nucleotides, amino acids and enzymes of the TCA cycle. The synthesis of proteins, necessary for phenol catabolism was regulated in different manners following the addition of succinate. Whereas the synthesis of Phl-proteins (subunits of the phenolhydroxylase) only decreased slowly, was the translation of the Cat-proteins (catechol 1,2-dioxygenase, cis,cis-muconate cycloisomerase and muconolactone isomerase) repressed immediately and the synthesis of the Pca-proteins (β-ketoadipate enolactone hydrolase, β-ketoadipate succinyl-CoA transferase and β-ketoadipyl CoA thiolase) remained unaffected.
